IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-769
ROBERT J. STEVENS. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 6, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
NEAL K. KATYAL, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
NEAL K. KATYAL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
NEAL K. KATYAL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear, first,
this morning, Case 08-769, United States v. Stevens.
Mr. Katyal.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL K. KATYAL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KATYAL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Ten years ago, in Section 48 of Title 18,
Congress crafted a narrowly targeted restriction against
certain depictions of actual animal cruelty. Yet the
Third Circuit struck the statute down on its face
without even attempting to apply substantial overbreadth
analysis. The statute has four critical features and,
just as the Court last year in United States v. Williams
began with statutory construction, analysis should begin
there.
First, like the statute at issue in the
United States v. Ferber, this statute only reaches
depictions of cruelty to actual living beings --
animals, not simulated ones or the written word.
Second, the statute only applies to
commercial messages, ones that Congress found drove the
market for animal cruelty.
Third, the statute examines the work as a
whole --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What record do you have
of that fact?
MR. KATYAL: Before Congress?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes.
MR. KATYAL: Before Congress -- Congress had
a bunch of testimony that showed that there were
extensive -- there was a robust market in animal cruelty
videos, largely focusing on crush videos -- 2 to 3,000
crush videos that were in -- that were -- that were
being sold at the time.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That I understand, but
crush videos is only one species of cruelty to animals.
What evidence was there that, for example, dog fighting
had as large and robust a market or that hunting videos
in those States in which hunting was illegal had a
robust market, et cetera?
MR. KATYAL: Well, hunting we think is
excluded, and I could talk about that in a moment, from
the reach of the act. Congress spoke in general terms,
and I don't think that Mr. Stevens's statement at page
13 of his merits brief, which is to the effect that
Congress repeatedly disavowed any attempt to regulate
animal fighting -- dog fighting -- I don't think that is
correct and the record does not support that.
Congress spoke in general terms. They had a
for-profit commercial market about animal cruelty, and
the statute dealt with it in general terms. And they
reasoned that by -- by punishing the sale of these
videotapes, they would get at the underlying clandestine
market --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you mean by a
"for-profit commercial market"? You mean anything that
is sold, right?
MR. KATYAL: That is -- that is correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. KATYAL: Yes.
And the Third Circuit's decision in this
case struck down the statute with respect to crush
videos, with respect to the sale of video -- the
creation of dog fighting videotapes, because, remember,
the statute, Section 48, doesn't just encompass the --
the sale of videotapes. It also encompasses the
creation of dog fighting videotapes. And, yet, the --
the Third Circuit struck that down as well. That, I
think, was a fundamental error under this Court's
principles, most particularly, United States v.
Williams, which says that the statute should only be
struck down if there is a substantial -- if there is
substantial overbreadth and only if it is a last resort
of the Court, not the first.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What would you -- if
you could do it in one sentence, what is your test for
determining which categories of speech are unprotected
by the First Amendment?
MR. KATYAL: In one sentence, if -- if -- if
Congress sees a compelling interest in regulating the
means of production and does not target the underlying
content, they can -- they can regulate a depiction, so
long as it leaves alternative mechanisms for that
expression in -- in place, and that is I think what
Ferber --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Okay. And what case --
what case do you have for that proposition?
MR. KATYAL: United States v. Ferber -- New
York v. Ferber. In Ferber, the Court -- the Court
dealt, as modified or as glossed by your decision in
Free Speech Coalition, because what Ferber and Free
Speech Coalition together say is that Congress was
not -- or the legislature, was not targeting the
contents of a depiction; rather, it was trying to get at
and dry up the underlying market, child exploitation in
that case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Katyal, the Court
summarily dealt with a case some years ago, American
Booksellers v. Hudnut, where cities attempted to make
not even a criminal offense, but the subject of a civil
suit, a violent depiction -- depictions of women as
sexual objects enjoying pain and humiliation and
degradation.
The Seventh Circuit said that that was a
blatant violation of the First Amendment, to go after
purveyors who show these women in the shocking,
degrading photographs, and I believe we summarily
affirmed.
MR. KATYAL: And this case is fundamentally
different from all of those because here Congress is not
aiming at the underlying communicative impact. It's not
saying, as it was in the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, of course it is. I
mean, you can't separate the means from the end and say,
since its end is simply to prevent the -- the activity,
the means, which is to prevent the communication, is
okay. It is targeting the communication of videos that
depict this conduct.
MR. KATYAL: Quite to the contrary, Justice
Scalia. The bona fides of this statute are evident
right on its face, because the very same depictions that
Mr. Stevens or anyone else swept up under the statute
wants to portray, they can -- they can do it, so long as
they use simulated or images.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but to say
that they are not concerned with the content, I -- I
think is contradicted by the exceptions. You have to
look at the content and make a decision, is this bona
fide scientific, journalistic, educational, historical?
So you have to look at the content to determine whether
or not the speech is prohibited.
MR. KATYAL: I don't think so, for two
reasons. I think what Congress is dealing with with the
exemptions clause in this statute was just reflecting
the underlying nature of the market that they saw in
1999, a for-profit commercial market in cruelty.
And so they exempted educational depictions,
religious, and so on, because that wasn't what was
driving the underlying market for crush videos --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How can you tell
these aren't political videos? You do have, with
organizations, PETA and others, depictions of the same
sort of animal cruelty that is used to generate support
for efforts to prohibit it. Why aren't these videos the
exact opposite, you know, efforts to legalize it, and,
in each case, it would fall under the political
exemption?
MR. KATYAL: And often they will fall under
that exemption. My point is that Congress carved a
broad exemption in Section 48 precisely to make sure
that expressive messages aren't swept up.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you -- could you
tell me what the difference is between these video and
David Roma's documentary on pit bulls? I mean, David
Roma's documentary had much, much more footage on the
actual animal cruelty than the films at issue here,
greater sections of the film, and more explicit.
In this film, the -- the Respondent didn't
let the video show the actual tearing of the jaw. David
Roma's did much more than that, showed much more than
that. So isn't -- doesn't there have to be a judgment
inherent in this statute?
MR. KATYAL: The line will sometimes be
difficult to draw, just as its difficult to draw in
child pornography --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it's not in child
pornography because, there, Congress says the very
act -- it doesn't matter how artistic it is. That very
act of child pornography is illegal.
MR. KATYAL: Quite to the contrary, Justice
Sotomayor. In this -- this Court approved, in Osborne
v. Ohio, a statute that's on child pornography, that had
the following exemption: For a, quote, "bona fide
artistic, educational, religious, governmental,
judicial, or other purpose by or to a physician,
psychologist, sociologist, persons pursuing bona fide
research studies, a judge or other persons having a
proper interest in the material or performance."
And this Court pointed to that exemptions
clause to make the statute constitutional at two -- at
two pages in that opinion. And so this Court has
already gone down the path of saying these decisions are
tough to make on a case-by-case basis, but nonetheless
the legislature should have a freer hand to act when it
is regulating, not the expressive message, but targeting
the underlying content, the -- targeting the underlying
production, not the content.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Child -- child pornography
is obscenity as far as I am concerned, and it has been
treated as part of that same traditional classification
which there has always been permission for the
government to prohibit. This is something quite
different.
I mean, you know, what if -- what if I -- I
am an aficionado of bullfights and I think, contrary to
the animal cruelty people, I think it -- they enoble
both beast and man, and I want to persuade people that
bullfights are terrific and we should have them.
I would -- I would not be able to -- to
market videos showing people how exciting a bullfight
is. Right? I would be able to talk and say, oh, you
should really allow bullfights, but I cannot make the
most significant point that I want to make, get people
to watch it.
MR. KATYAL: I want to answer your
hypothetical, but if I could just have 20 seconds or so
to -- to respond more generally to all of these
hypotheticals which I think are going to reoccur in the
course of our conversation.
We believe that Section 48 will have
as-applied constitutional challenges that will be
inferred from case to case. But what this Court has
said is that, in your decision, Justice Scalia, in
United States v. Williams, is that we should be careful
about that endless stream of fanciful hypotheticals
precisely because the test under substantial
overbreadth, which knocks an entire act of Congress out
on its face, is that there must be a realistic danger
that the statute will be applied in -- in the manner the
hypothetical suggests.
With respect to your bullfighting
hypothetical, there is no realistic danger.
We have had ten years of experience under the statute.
Congress itself said -- the legislative history, which I
know will not be of relevance to you but may to others
on the Court -- they explicitly exempted Spanish
bullfighting and said that is the paradigmatic case of
what is educational and artistic and the like.
JUSTICE BREYER: What if I made --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait. Wait. I don't
understand that. Any depiction of bullfighting is
educational?
MR. KATYAL: Spanish depictions of
bullfighting --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that is true because
Congress said so?
MR. KATYAL: Well, that is true because it
is educational, and -- and a prosecutor would bear the
burden of proof.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I guess a dogfight is
educational, too.
MR. KATYAL: And some dogfights certainly
are, which is my answer to Justice Sotomayor's question.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, look what you have
done, and this is what is bothering me. You take these
words, which are a little vague, some of them, "serious
religious, political, scientific, educational,
journalistic, historical, or artistic value," and you
say that's a standard that a judge or prosecutor will
apply. And people have to understand it because they
have to know what to do to avoid the risk of being
prosecuted.
Now, as I have gotten out of these briefs,
you then require people to apply that standard, not
simply to the crush videos or to the dogfighting, but
also to, as Justice Scalia pointed out, bullfighting,
sheep hunting, bear hunting, deer hunting, fox hunting,
humane slaughter, and for, I think somewhere I found,
the stuffing geese for pate de fois gras.
All right, so there is a whole long -- quail
hunting. There's a whole long list in here of things
that people might want to do. They won't know if it
falls within this exemption. Nobody in every State
wants to forbid these things. Sometimes they are,
sometimes they are not. They won't know whether or not
they can make this particular film, picture, or other.
That's the overbreadth argument. And I would like to
hear your response.
MR. KATYAL: We have had ten years of
experience, Justice Breyer, under the statute, and we
haven't seen those things being chilled. Indeed,
Respondents --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you give me an example
of a case where we said a statute which might otherwise
be overbroad is not overbroad because prosecutors have
been restrained? Can you give me one case where we've
said that?
MR. KATYAL: Last year in United States v.
Williams, an opinion that virtually every member of this
Court joined, including you, Justice Kennedy, this Court
said that it would look to the experience, the
post-Ferber experience, in prosecuting cases to decide
whether or not a -- two terms in the statute, "promotes"
and "presents," were vague and would raise the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that was a case where
we knew what the content was. The content was not
subject to an -- to an overbreadth challenge. The
content was not.
MR. KATYAL: Well, actually, Justice
Kennedy, the reason that came up in the case is because
there were hypotheticals being advanced such as
police -- a man who wants to call the police that says
that child pornography arrived in my -- in the mail and
so on. And what the Court said is that even though the
words in the statute, just as the words in this statute,
could be read broadly or narrowly --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but that -- that
went to intent. It seems to me that -- let me tell you
what I think your framework is and if it is wrong, tell
me that it is wrong. This statute without the
exceptions clause would be wildly overbroad. So you say
it's not overly broad because of the exception or the
savings clause. I will call it the exceptions. But it
seems to me that the exceptions must be then tested as
to whether or not they are vague.
MR. KATYAL: We do think that the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you have you to show
that they are not vague.
MR. KATYAL: We do think that the exceptions
clause does some of the constitutional work to exclude
some of the hypotheticals like bullfighting and the
like. We do think the statute itself has a number of
restrictions built into it on its face to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what is a -- what is
"and the like"? How about cockfighting? What is the
difference between -- perhaps I missed something a few
moments ago -- between bullfighting, cockfighting,
dogfighting? You say dogfighting is included, but
bullfighting -- and I don't know where you put
cockfighting.
MR. KATYAL: Dogfighting and cockfighting
are illegal in all 50 States and therefore would be
swept up. Some certain depictions of dogfighting and
cockfighting would be swept up, not all.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what about
bullfighting? Isn't that illegal in --
MR. KATYAL: It may or may not be. There
aren't, at least, specific statutes generally dealing
with it, but --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What about hunting with a
bow -- What about hunting with a bow and arrow out of
season?
MR. KATYAL: Okay. So --
(Laughter.)
MR. KATYAL: In hunting, as well as --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can we -- have we
finished with the category of fights?
MR. KATYAL: So let me just, to Justice
Ginsburg's question. Not all dogfighting videos are
swept up by Section 48. There may be educational
videos, along the lines that Justice Sotomayor said,
raised which are not swept up. Bullfighting is the same
basic thing. It's not that there is a categorical -- a
categorical exemption on bullfighting; it is rather that
there are certain ones that are educational and not,
just like in child pornography.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What's the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So noneducational
bullfighting would be prohibited? If I market this just
because I think, boy, bullfighting is really exciting?
MR. KATYAL: If it meets the other terms in
the statute, right. So commercial and things like that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. It is covered.
MR. KATYAL: Now, with respect to hunting,
hunting is generally not considered animal cruelty. And
it doesn't --
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but hunting with a bow
and arrow, and some depictions of hunting are pretty --
are pretty gruesome.
MR. KATYAL: That's correct. And to the
extent that it is something that resembles the terms of
the statute, the language of which is "maimed,
mutilated, tortured, wounded, or killed" --
JUSTICE SCALIA: "Or killed." How do you
limit "killed" to cruel -- you say in your brief that
it's noscitur ex sociis. But that's a doctrine that
says when you have a string of words, one of which has
various meanings, which meaning it has depends upon the
words with which it is associated. So if you speak of
staples, staples -- what, thumb tacks, nails, and other
fasteners, "nails" obviously doesn't mean toenails. It
means a nail that is a fastener, the word "nail" having
various meanings.
"Kill" has one meaning, which is kill. And
you can -- you cannot limit that meaning just because in
addition to killing you also prohibit torturing and
other things. Do you have a single case where -- where
that doctrine is used not to give meaning to an
ambiguous word, but to limit the meaning of a word which
on its face is absolutely clear?
MR. KATYAL: Yes, sir, Your Honor. I do.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is that?
MR. KATYAL: That is the decision you wrote
last year in United States v. Williams, which interprets
the words "promotes and presents," which you yourself in
the opinion said are capable of a wide variety of
meanings.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly.
MR. KATYAL: And -- and here the word "kill"
in context is a term that the statute --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, it's not susceptible to
a wide -- that's my whole point. It means kill.
MR. KATYAL: It means killed in the context
of a statute that is defining the words "animal
cruelty," and this Court has consistently said that the
definition that is being defined by the legislature --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Some people think eating an
animal is animal cruelty. These people don't eat meat
because it is the product of killing animals.
MR. KATYAL: And the legislature under no
way, shape, or form was targeting that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it shouldn't have
said that, then.
MR. KATYAL: Well, I think that it basically
did say that by using the words "animal cruelty" in the
statute. Now, if there's a disagreement about that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't have a single
case in which a -- an absolutely clear word like "kill"
is given a more narrow meaning because of other words
that are different from that word.
MR. KATYAL: Justice Scalia, in Leocal, this
Court defined the term "crime of violence," which the
INA had -- that the INA interpreted wrongly.
JUSTICE BREYER: So you want to say "cruelly
kill"?
MR. KATYAL: That's --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, "cruelly kill" is not
exactly crystal clear. And therefore my question is
why, given the need for you to save this statute to read
so many words that are so general, those contained here
that I've read, cruelly kill, cruelly wound as opposed
to just wound or kill. You are doing that in order to
prevent chilling people who are engaging in activities
that aren't intended to be covered by this statute.
Why not do a simpler thing? Rather than let
the public guess as to what these words mean, ask
Congress to write a statute that actually aims at those
frightful things that it was trying to prohibit. Now,
that can be done. I don't know why they couldn't do it.
MR. KATYAL: And it could have been done in
Williams. It could have been done in the child
pornography cases, which also have vague terms. But
what this Court has said is that using the substantial
overbreadth doctrine to do that leaves gaping holes in
place. If we followed your invitation, Justice Breyer,
we would leave crush videos unprotected.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why? Why? You say a crush
video, my description that I read of it, you would have
a strong case. I'm not saying you would win, I don't
have to decide that. But you have a very strong case.
So you say to Congress, write a statute that focuses on
that. You are worried about dog fighting, write a
statute that focuses on that, and moreover, talks about
something unlawful in every state. I am not giving
Congress advice, though I seem to be.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm just saying why -- why
can't you here write a statute that does not force the
courts into the work of interpreting these very vague
words to prevent the statute from being held
unconstitutional?
MR. KATYAL: Well, here I think we should
give Congress some credit, because what it actually did
in the exemption clause was borrow this Court's own
jurisprudence from the obscenity context on exceptions
like literary, artistic, political and scientific. It
had found that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, would
this -- would a statute like this apply to humans be
constitutional? You can't depict videos of, say,
violent muggings or things of that sort?
MR. KATYAL: Well, I think it would be
complicated because Congress would have to find that by
targeting the underlying videos but leaving alternative
simulated mugging videos in place, somehow it would have
reduced the market for muggings or something like that.
I think that's very hard. And it goes to Justice
Ginsburg's question about whether this statute is aimed
at the communicative of impact, which we don't think it
is, or it is aimed at just reducing the first order
problem which is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the first order problem
occurs in states where it is not illegal. These videos
are taken in states where bullfighting or dog fighting
or cock fighting is entirely legal. So, I don't know
how you distinguish a -- a movie which many people think
that violence in movie brutalizes people and causes
violence in people's action.
Why couldn't Congress, persuaded by these
people say, you know, you can't have -- cannot depict
torture? You know, these horror films that come out
around Halloween, you can't depict that anymore. What
is the difference between that and what you have done
here?
MR. KATYAL: So dog fighting is illegal in
all 50 states along with crush videos. I don't think
that -- there may be --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it isn't -- it
isn't -- illegal in Japan, and part of the video here
were dog fights in Japan; legal where it occurred, no
different from bull fighting.
MR. KATYAL: Right. This Court has dealt
with that in footnote 19 of Ferber in which it said that
just because something is legal somewhere else, it's
often very hard to figure out where the underlying
material is made. It doesn't have a GPS component.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that wasn't --
JUSTICE ALITO: Justice Scalia spoke about
the aficionada of Spanish bullfighting. Suppose that I
am an aficionado of the sort gladiatorial contests that
used to take place in ancient Rome, and suppose that
some -- Rome or some other place decides that it wants
to make money by staging these things and selling videos
of them or broadcasting them live around the world. Do
you have any doubt that that could be prohibitive?
MR. KATYAL: This is -- I'm sorry if I'm not
following the hypothetical. This is historical --
JUSTICE ALITO: A gladiatorial contests
where the gladiators fight to the death.
MR. KATYAL: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you have any doubt that
that could be prohibited?
MR. KATYAL: Well, it sounds like it would
fall under the historical exemption, at least in the
hypothetical as you have raised it. So, it wouldn't be
prohibited by section 48 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Who knows.
JUSTICE ALITO: No, no, not under this
statute, under a different statute.
MR. KATYAL: Well, I think that -- I think
that there again, it would raise some First Amendment
interest in suppressing historical -- historical
information.
Now, Justice Scalia, you said who knows. I
think the answer to that is that this statute places the
burden of proof on the government in order to -- in
order to prove that there is no historical or
educational value.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you dress up like an
ancient Roman, the whole thing is of historical
interest?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that it?
MR. KATYAL: Justice Scalia, I do think that
is the Court's own jurisprudence with respect to, for
example, obscenity and child pornography, both of which
this Court has accepted precisely those types of
exceptions.
JUSTICE SCALIA: A different category. That
is traditional First Amendment law that obscenity is not
protected. And child pornography, as far as I am
concerned, and I think as far as the Court is concerned
is obscenity.
MR. KATYAL: Well, I don't believe the Court
has actually read child pornography to be obscenity.
The rationale of Ferber --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Katyal, there is
something quite different between Ferber, because the
abuse of a child is occurring at the very time. As I
understand it, Mr. Stevens was not a promoter of dog
fights. He was just filming them. And so the -- the --
the simultaneous abuse of the child, it occurs only
because the picture is being taken. The dog fight goes
on whether Mr. Stevens is there with his camera or not.
MR. KATYAL: Let me say two things about
that. First Mr. Stevens, of course, even in the Japan
videos you mentioned, he sent his dogs to Japan to -- to
fight. And this statute encompasses real time
transmissions of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where it was legal for
him to do that.
MR. KATYAL: It was, just -- again, like
child pornography and the like. The second --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It even -- what I would
like you to confront is that the very taking of the
picture is the offense. That's the abuse of the child.
The abuse of the dog and the promotion of the fight is
separate from the filming of it.
MR. KATYAL: I agree with that. And I don't
think that's what underlay either this Court's Ferber
decision or the free speech coalition. The move that
Ferber makes is to say that the legislature can target
the underlying loaded production, so long as it leaves
alternative mechanisms for that same exact message to be
spoken. And this statute does that. Mr. Stevens can
produce the exact same message, just as long as he
doesn't involve the torture or mutilation to an actual
living animal. And to compare this --
JUSTICE SCALIA: His message is that getting
animals to fight is fun. That's his message.
MR. KATYAL: And Congress hasn't stamped
that out.
JUSTICE SCALIA: To say he -- you know, he
can convey that message in some other way, how else does
he do it?
MR. KATYAL: With simulated messages, the
written word. He has written an entire book about that.
He has a whole variety --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Simulated dog fights would
be okay under this statute?
MR. KATYAL: Simulate -- absolutely. This
statute leaves that in place, Justice Scalia. That's
the key to understanding why this statute is not like
the traditional statutes that come before this Court in
which the government asserts some paternalistic interest
and says viewers can't see this because of the offense
of the message.
This statute has nothing to do with the
offense of the message. It has to do with trying to dry
up an underlying market for animal cruelty.
If the there are no questions, I would like
to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Millett.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
It is not the exact same message, if you are
forced in a popular debate that is going around this
country now about the treatment of animals. To require
one side to engage -- to use simulated images, which is
exactly what the government's reply brief at page 3
insists upon, while those who want to ban conduct are
allowed to use real images. That puts the government's
censorial thumb on the scale of public debate.
JUSTICE ALITO: What about crush videos,
which apparently were the focus of Congress's attention
when it drafted these? Now, I suppose by an analogy to
what Justice Scalia just said about the message of dog
fighting videos, the people who produce crush videos
think they have a message, and the message is that this
is -- this is sexually exciting or it's exciting in some
way to see a woman in high heeled shoes crushing a
little animal to death.
Do you think that is constitutionally
protected?
MS. MILLETT: I think -- I think there's
a -- that a properly drawn law could very well, at least
in my humble opinion, this Court would have to decide,
survive strict scrutiny.
There is also, I suppose, some argument
whether it would fit into -- you wouldn't need strict
scrutiny, you would fit it into an unprotected category
of speech like obscenity or it would be the production
issue that would -- like you have in Ferber.
But what -- beyond that I do think we need
to keep in mind a couple of things --
JUSTICE ALITO: You are not -- you are not
even willing to say that that could be prohibited?
MS. MILLETT: No, no. I think -- I'm saying
that there are three alternative ways in which to get to
it. My first if one is that not this statute, but under
a properly drawn statute --
JUSTICE ALITO: Under a properly drawn
statute --
MS. MILLETT: -- that might survive
scrutiny. I'm not sure you would --
JUSTICE ALITO: Might. I would really like
you to tell me whether it would; whether you are willing
to concede. Because we are trying to determine whether
this is overly broad. And this is the category of
activity that Congress particularly targeted. So to me
at least it's important to know whether at least as
applied to what Congress principally had in mind, the
statute could -- could pass constitutional muster. If
it were, you know, as applied.
MS. MILLETT: I don't -- I don't want to,
say this statute, because I don't think this statute --
but if the statute said, this -- I think this Court
disagree -- it disagrees with me sometimes -- but I
think this could pass constitutional muster. A statute
that says the patently offensive intentional torture and
killing of an animal for -- designed to appeal to the
prurient interest for the purpose of producing the
image, I think that would satisfy -- I think it would
satisfy strict scrutiny. The Court might also decide
that it's close enough to obscenity or it's like the
Ferber production rationale. That's my position; there
are sort of three ways it could be analyzed, a statute
like that.
That's not this statute and I don't think we
can say that this statute, because Congress has the
authority to reach something, that when it throws a
blanket net as wide as this one has that this means this
statute is the mechanism, a lawful mechanism for getting
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I have one more -- one
more question along the lines of Justice Alito. Forget
this statute. Under a properly drawn statute, suppose
that bull-fighting or pitbull-fighting is unlawful in
every State. Could a theater have a live broadcast of a
pitbull fight in Japan and charge ten dollars? And
let's add the hypothetical fact that a lot of the
revenue goes back to Japan and promotes more
bull-fighting. Could a properly drawn statute prohibit
that? And then perhaps Justice Scalia, Alito, has a
follow-up question on his own hypothetical. Could a
properly drawn statute prohibit that, that speech?
MS. MILLETT: A properly drawn statute with
the requisite congressional findings or record of a need
to attack -- it sound to me like this is a need to
attack production. As in child pornography, the fact
that the image taking is legal overseas does not mean
that it can't be prohibited here. And if you had the
type of record of a statute that says we want to stop
the production; it's not the content, it is the
production, as this Court explained in Free Speech
Coalition for Child Pornography.
But that is a statute that then wouldn't
have -- either you would have to decide which things are
in and out -- if you started saying animal cruelty
production, but we we'll let the bullfights in but the
pitbull fights out and the cock fights, then you'd have
problems.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We are asking whether or
not that specific instance could be prohibited under a
properly drawn statute, just like Justice Alito's
hypothetical was under a properly drawn statute you
could prohibit the conduct, the speech broadcast in that
conduct.
MS. MILLETT: The theory -- I mean,
ultimately this Court would have to decide whether
Ferber is limited to an obscenity that's historically
unprotected by the First Amendment.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So your answer to my
hypothetical is yes it could be prohibited under a
properly drawn statute?
MS. MILLETT: If this Court -- two things.
It would have to be a very, very narrowly drawn statute,
I think going to the production theory like Ferber; and
the question I think before this Court would be, given
the nature of the harm that presumably would be found,
the nature of the market, the synergistic effect, where
the -- I am assuming the findings here would be that the
crime and the image are one and the same, inextricably
intertwined -- then maybe, although I still think it
would be a bit harder because we are dealing with the
First Amendment here. We don't make it up as we go
along. At the time that the First Amendment was written
dog-fighting was legal in this country.
JUSTICE BREYER: But the point -- the point
I guess is when you say yes to this, what you are
thinking is that, just as real obscenity when depicted
does nothing communicative but rather appeals to the
instinct of lust, so Congress could find a category of
things that do not communicate, but appeal to the
instinct of sadism; and that is true when other
creatures are killed for the pleasure of the people who
want to see them killed.
Now, that's what you are saying. Now -- and
I think maybe that's true. We don't have to decide
that, perhaps. But the government says that is this
statute, that is this statute read in light of its basic
intent, and it is up to the Court to interpret it so as
it achieves that objective. And you say that's not
possible. Why not?
MS. MILLETT: Two things. First of all,
there is interpreting and then there is alchemy, and I
think this statute requires alchemy. This is Reno
versus --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Requires?
MS. MILLETT: Alchemy, alchemy.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh.
MS. MILLETT: There's construction of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's such an unusual word.
I haven't heard it in a legal argument in a long time.
MS. MILLETT: We don't often get statutes
that are so far off base that we're going, I think in my
opinion, so far beyond construing ambiguity and doing
instead what was asked of this Court and the Court
declined in Reno v. ACLU, and that is to write the
statute for Congress.
The ambiguity, as, Justice Scalia, you
explained -- you would have to excise this statute in
and out, sever so many things. I don't know what you'd
have left unless it's the statute I posited to Justice
Alito, which might have a couple of words that overlap
with this statute. But that is not statutory
construction. This Court's job is not to write the
statute for Congress.
And also keep in mind, in the past this
Court consistently under the First Amendment has
required, not just the right words, but a record from
Congress. In the First Amendment area we can't just
posit the problems; we have to really have confidence
that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does this -- would this
record support any ban? I mean, there was a real
concentration on crush videos. So there is that. Is
there anything else in the current record other than the
crush videos?
MS. MILLETT: No, there is not. And in fact
they spent their time, as we said in our brief -- and
this is perfectly accurate. Members of Congress, to the
extent they discussed other things, kept saying in the
floor debates: That's not in; bull-fighting's not in;
dog-fighting's not in; hunting's not in; these things
are not in. So they mentioned them in the context of
saying these are not in.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I think --
I think Ferber analytically is the hard case for you,
because the Court in Ferber did said -- and I am quoting
from page 763: "The evil to be restricted so
overwhelmingly outweighs the expressive interest at
stake." That was their articulation of the test. Now,
why shouldn't we apply that test to this statute?
MS. MILLETT: I don't think that is a legal
test that is adopted under the First Amendment. I think
that is a description of the types of categories that by
history and tradition had been outside the First
Amendment and the rationale for why Ferber came in,
which was, yes, there's overlap, but I think it actually
bridges the world of obscenity and virtual incitement
because you have the crime and the image one and the
same wrapped up together.
There is in this instance -- there are about
five different ways that this is different from child
pornography. The first is that there has never been any
finding, any assertion, even by the government, that
creating the image is the primary or sole motive for
creating these images. It's not if you lock Mr. Stevens
up -- if you throw away every dog-fighting video in the
country tomorrow, dog-fighting will continue. It -- no
one thinks that it will go away.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think the government
does. It says that is how you dry up the market.
MS. MILLETT: But you don't dry up the
market by having a sweeping value exception like they
have here. If Congress wants to dry up the market, what
Ferber says is there's two things that have to happen:
One, you've got to prove causation. You can't simply
say, we got a problem, let's go first to the speech and
cut that off as our first prosecutorial tool when we are
not even ready to make the crime itself a felony, but we
will make the speech a felony.
You've got to prove causation, that these
images cause the harm, they are one and the same with
the harm as they are with child pornography. You also
have got to prove that Congress is acting in an
evenhanded way. It is not leaving, as Justice Scalia
said, appreciable damage to the interests that its
asserting uncovered by its many, many exceptions.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you a question
about your view of the breadth of the statute. I didn't
yet really get an answer out of your opponent. Do you
think the statute would prohibited depictions of hunting
if it involved killing in the District of Columbia,
because hunting as I understand it is not allowed in the
District of Columbia, it's prohibited. Does that mean
that any depictions of hunting that show the killing and
cruelty are prohibited by this statute?
MS. MILLETT: Well, they are prohibited
subject to the value police and the value trial like we
had here, which I think is antithetical to the First
Amendment. It's a very different rule under the
obscenity statute. So it would all depend on whether a
jury decided that that had serious value, which was
defined as significant and great import in this
particular case. That would decide whether --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's just not significant
value; significant artistic, educational. What are the
others? Scientific?
MS. MILLETT: Scientific, social, artistic,
journalistic --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Strictly entertainment
value doesn't count, does it?
MS. MILLETT: No, it does not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And most of the hunting
videos I have seen people watch for the entertainment.
They like to see a hunt.
MS. MILLETT: I think that's exactly right
and that's what the Safari Club and the NRA have told
us.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I mean, but
this definition or these exceptions are not drawn out of
thin air. They are drawn from Miller, and the Court in
Miller recognized that they were significant in causing
the restriction of obscenity to pass constitutional
muster.
MS. MILLETT: First of all, this is about
-- this is Miller doubled -- there's a lot more here
-- categories here. But it's a very different role
that value plays under Miller in obscenity. First of
all, this Court made quite clear again in Reno v. ACLU
that Miller only works if you have all three prongs.
You can't just use the serious value prong to take
care of your constitutional problem. Second, you were
dealing in an area that by history and tradition is
unprotected speech. Milller --
JUSTICE ALITO: But in determining whether
this is over -- overly broad, do we -- do we think of all
of the hypotheticals that we possibly can think of that
might fall within this statute: somebody hunting in the
District of Columbia, somebody producing fois gras with
a goose and say, "Well, we've thought of a lot of
hypothetical situations where this statute might apply
and therefore it's overly broad"? Or do we look at
what's going on in the real world?
MS. MILLETT: I think what you do is you
look at text of the statute, and then you ask yourself,
how much of a strain is it to come up with a factual
pattern that will fit into it? In Williams you had to
first of all read the --
JUSTICE ALITO: So we really think of all
the hypotheticals. That's how you think we determine
the constitutionality of this under the overbreadth
doctrine?
MS. MILLETT: I think at some level Congress
has a job to write with a scalpel and not a buzz saw in
the First Amendment area, and the only way to ensure
that happens is to look at the text and say, does this
text fit the purpose, does it fit what the Constitution
will allow? And when the --
JUSTICE ALITO: If it's the fact that during
the ten years when this statute has been in effect there
has been no decrease in hunting videos and hunting shows
on TV, and all of the rest -- the only perceptible
change in the real world is that these -- is that the
market for crush videos dried up, at least until the
Third Circuit's decision, does that have any relevance?
MS. MILLETT: I don't -- I don't think it
does for this reason. People -- and this gets a little
bit to Justice Kennedy's vagueness concern. People have
a right to know how to -- outside the courtroom how to
conform their conduct to the law. If I got a call from
the general counsel of Outdoor Channel or someone making
hunting videos and they said, "Does this fall within
this statute," I wouldn't have to come up with a
strained factual scenario. I would say yeah, it falls
squarely in, subject to a prosecutor or jury anywhere
where you market in this country, deciding that it has
serious -- one of the adjectives -- value. I would have
to say that to that person, and that would be accurate
legal advice.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It could be that the reason
hunting videos are still out there is that the producers
were quite confident that this Court would not allow
them to be prohibited on the base of a statute such as
this.
MS. MILLETT: One would hope, and I think
quite frankly the NRA has been quite honest when it
recently said you know, this -- this is not an actively
enforced statute. People were shocked to learn -- to
become aware of it.
Now maybe everyone's supposed to know the
existence of laws, but I think the reality is that once
people looked at what this said, they became very, very,
very concerned, and I think when you're talking about a
criminal prohibition here -- this is not a civil suit,
this is criminal prohibition with severe penalties. The
penalties for speech are higher than most animal cruelty
statutes. And the whole point of the criminal law is to
deter conduct and to make people stay wide of the
margins here, wide of the borders.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I --
MS. MILLETT: You can't do that in the First
Amendment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understood your
answers to Justice Alito to acknowledge that there would
be situations where this statute could be
constitutionally applied, or as you put it, you could
draft a statute.
MS. MILLETT: Not this statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not this statute.
But --
MS. MILLETT: That's different. I think
that's very different.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if in fact there
were situations where we thought a narrowly drafted
statute could be applied to particular instances,
perhaps the crush videos, perhaps others, why isn't that
enough to say that this statute is valid on its face and
then we will consider as-applied challenges?
MS. MILLETT: I think in the First
Amendment -- I'm not talking -- if I heard you right we
were not talking about this statute. If you have
another statute --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess I am just
trying to get at what your understanding of what the
test is for overbreadth in this area. How much of an
area of constitutional application is necessary before
you decide that a statute is not unconstitutional on its
face, but will consider as-applied challenges?
MS. MILLETT: Right. And this Court has
been clear that the overbreadth has to be both
quantitative and qualitative. It hasn't set a
particular ratio. I think this one is easy. We are
talking about 2,000 crush videos and tens if not
hundreds of thousands of other images that are captured
by this statute. I think normally when this Court says
it wants to -- to apply overbreadth, it has been dealing
with situations for the most part in two contexts. One
where Congress has already regulated in an area that is
unprotected under the First Amendment, unprotected in
the sense that they are allowed to ban, regulate
heavily. They are already there, and the question is
did they draw the margins too broad?
That is not this case. We are dealing in an
area that was never until December 1999 barred by
anybody, never considered to be outside the conception
of the First Amendment's freedom of speech. The other
scenario where we see substantial overbreadth is when
Congress is regulating conduct.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, isn't that -- isn't
that due to changes in technology? Before people could
show -- could watch videos at home, this sort of thing
would -- would be very difficult.
MS. MILLETT: This covers photographs, so
this would go back as far as photographs. I'm not sure
it wouldn't cover a sketch artist or a hieroglyphic, for
all I know. All it requires is that it be a depiction
in some form.
JUSTICE ALITO: And is there -- in the real
world is there a market for sketches of dog fights?
MS. MILLETT: I don't know if there's a
market --
JUSTICE ALITO: People get a thrill from
seeing that?
MS. MILLETT: With respect, I can't answer
that. I'm not -- I don't know if there is a market for
dog fighting videos. There is a few, but it depends on
what you mean by a market. Will somebody buy something?
I guess somebody in this world will buy anything.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there any indication
that there has been any dry-up of the market for dog
fights as a result of this statute?
MS. MILLETT: There --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Justice Alito suggested
that until the Third Circuit's decision, that there were
fewer crush videos produced. But with respect to dog
fights, animal fights, is there any indication that
there has been -- there have been fewer animal fights as
a result of this statute?
MS. MILLETT: None whatsoever, and in fact
what we've seen is robust enforcement, and we cite the
article in our case, we have seen robust enforcement;
there was just an arrest a few weeks ago for I think a
couple hundred people involved in dog fighting rings.
So the dog fighting rings are going on unabated and they
are getting found and discovered and prosecuted
successfully, and in fact the images sometimes help with
the prosecution.
This is a place, when we start talking we
are going to take something outside the First Amendment,
one of the other things that unifies the categories of
speech outside the First Amendment is a judgment that
more speech doesn't work. This is an area where we know
speech works powerfully. Speech about these ugly images
produced this statute. It informed people. Unlike
children and child pornography, people need to see
images to understand what's going on with animals, and
to make these important decisions and engage in these
important debates that our society is having.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose an argument --
excuse me.
Suppose an argument had been made to the
Court in Ferber, that, you know, it's really good for
people to see molestation of children because then they
will be outraged and they will enforce the statute more.
I just can't see the Court accepting that argument for a
single -- for a minute.
MS. MILLETT: I -- I agree. I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's the argument
you are making.
MS. MILLETT: No, no, I think it's -- I
think it's -- I'm trying to point out that this is in
fact a contrast.
First of all -- a contrast between the two
situations between dealing with the subject, a very
topical subject that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it seems to me that
we ought -- if there is a significant chance that
Congress can affect an illegal market, an illegal
activity by a statutory regulation we ought to defer to
Congress on that ground. I think you still have speech
arguments.
MS. MILLETT: I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: On this economic
causation, I think we have to defer to Congress largely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I really think you should
focus, not on the educational value for -- to make
people hate bull fighting and things, but on quite the
opposite, it seems to me. On the right under the First
Amendment of people who like bull fighting, who like dog
fighting, who like cock fighting, to present their side
of -- of the debate.
And unless it's a subject like obscenity,
which from the beginning has not been considered
protected speech, it seems to me that side of the debate
is entitled to make its point as -- as forcefully as
possible. That's it seems to me what the problem is
here. Not --
MS. MILLETT: I think that is 100 percent
right.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if that's 100 percent,
then what about people who --who like to see human
sacrifices? Suppose that is legally taking place
someplace in the world. I mean, people here would
probably love to see it. Live, pay per view, you know,
on the human sacrifice channel.
(Laughter. )
JUSTICE ALITO: They have a point of view
they want to express. That's okay?
MS. MILLETT: The problem with this statute
is that presumably that statute would be even-handed and
would it not say if the sacrifices were religious, or
journalistic, or historic. Or --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can create a lot of
First Amendment horribles. What about -- what about a
new Adolf Hitler? Can we censor any depiction of that
new Adolf Hitler and the horrible things that he is
proposing, including extermination of a race? Is that
proscribable under the First Amendment? Is that any
less horrible than the human sacrifice contemplation?
MS. MILLETT: No, Justice Scalia. Again, I
agree, because what the First Amendment says is we
allow --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry; you agree
you can prohibit it, or not?
MS. MILLETT: I agree that, just because
something is repulsive, incredibly offensive or maybe
even involves some harm to people does not mean that --
depictions of it that do not cause that harm, that are
not integrally tied to it, that are not the purpose and
animating motivation for that harm cannot be proscribed.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What was your answer to
Justice Alito's hypothetical about human sacrifice?
MS. MILLETT: The -- if -- at a minimum,
Congress has got to be evenhanded. The point there is
that you are trying to say we are concerned about the
creation for purposes of the image. We are concerned
about what the government calls the "snuff video
situation."
This whole reason that this is created is
for purposes of creating the image. If you establish
the causation -- and I don't think we -- the Court does
just defer to Congress on these things.
It looks carefully at factual records in --
as it has in the child pornography are under the First
Amendment, Justice Kennedy. If Congress proves the
causation and shows that it is -- it's the least
restrictive means -- compelling and least restrictive
means, the strict scrutiny that Congress -- the
government never wanted this statute to march through.
JUSTICE ALITO: And what if there is no
chance of drawing up the activity? Suppose you have the
ethnic cleansing channel on cable TV, and there is no --
this is taking place in a country that's beyond our
power to influence. Congress couldn't prohibit that?
MS. MILLETT: The -- the fact that conduct
is repulsive or offensive does not mean we automatically
ban the speech. You would have to have -- it would have
to follow this Court's patterns, either it would be an
even-handed ban on production, under the Ferber theory,
or you would have to establish if those images were
never within the constraints.
JUSTICE BREYER: I think what -- I think
what's going on is -- is not -- your conflating two
things. One is you are trying to produce education
about something that has no communicative value.
In so far as you are trying to make an
argument or educate, of course, it is protected, but the
government, here, is saying I think the statute is
intended to forbid a different thing entirely, and it's
hard to draw a line.
Maybe it's impossible; but promoting a thing
which communicates nothing, but appeals to people's
worst instinct, that is not to advocate it or not to
advocate it.
It is to try to make money out of it, and
that's what they think, I believe, the statute is aimed
at.
MS. MILLETT: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: So that's why they have the
journalistic exception.
MS. MILLETT: The -- when it comes to
promoting illegal conduct, we have the Brandenburg Test,
and, if you are close enough to be inciting it, to be
causing it -- which I think is where Ferber, largely,
is. They are just intertwined. That's one thing. But
if it's not -- just because we have the really
disgusting, despicable channel doesn't mean that we
automatically ban it. Maybe it will be educational.
Maybe we will learn from it.
I think Congress is going to have to show,
before it goes to speech as its first tool of repression
to attack conduct with, very specialized, narrow
circumstances.
JUSTICE BREYER: We are going to advertise a
drug that is known to kill people.
MS. MILLETT: That is commercial --
JUSTICE BREYER: We are advertising --
MS. MILLETT: That is commercial speech.
The fact that you want to get paid for speaking does not
make it commercial speech.
Samuel Johnson, himself, said that no one
but a blockhead ever wrote, except for money. I don't
necessarily agree with that, but it is -- it would be a
shock to him, to Thomas Payne, who sold his tracks of
"Common Sense," that the First Amendment would go all --
leap all the way from commercial speech and say, just
because you are doing it for money, you need to make a
buck.
Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would have thought that
your response to Justice Breyer's comment about catering
to people's worst instincts in the area of the First
Amendment, at least, would have been that it's not up to
the government to decide what are people's worst
instincts.
If -- if the First Amendment means anything,
that's what it means.
MS. MILLETT: Well, it means --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not up to the
government to tell us what our worst instincts are --
MS. MILLETT: It means --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except for those areas that
have traditionally been outside the area of -- of
protected speech, and -- and once you allow this one,
what other -- what other base instincts do people have,
besides this one?
One can contemplate a lot of other areas,
where government could say, You are appealing to
people's worst instincts, and, therefore, the -- the
movies cannot be made.
MS. MILLETT: I agree, Justice Scalia. The
answer to that instance is more speech under the First
Amendment. The answer --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So I'm sorry. I'm
still looking for your answer to Justice Alito's
hypotheticals.
Can Congress ban the human sacrifice channel
or not?
MS. MILLETT: I -- the -- I think -- I -- I
will start by saying -- no. Let's start and see.
Maybe -- maybe it won't work, but I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You are unwilling --
you are unwilling to say that Congress can pass a law,
even-handed, straightforward, you cannot have a human
sacrifice channel.
MS. MILLETT: If it did, it would have to be
even-handed and have narrow tailoring, but the problem
is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What do you mean by
"even-handed," please? I'm not -- you are using those
words. What do you mean about "even-handed and narrowly
tailored"?
MS. MILLETT: When -- when the attack --
Justice Sotomayor, when the attack is on the
production -- if it -- I don't mean to be -- I want to
be direct in answering.
It depends on two things. If the theory is
we don't like the content, we don't want people to see
the content, I don't think Congress can do it. I think
the answer is more --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So that goes with snuff
movies -- snuff movies. I don't know if they really
exist, but they have been described.
MS. MILLETT: No one has ever found one,
but the point I'm trying to get -- there are two
theories --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Adolf Hitler, can we keep
him off the screen, too?
MS. MILLETT: It's a dangerous proposition.
That's what the First Amendment says we won't do. There
is -- so if it's just that we don't like the content,
outside obscenity, we -- Congress doesn't get to ban it.
The answer is more speech.
If you have got --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So we don't like --
we don't like human sacrifice, and so Congress passes a
law saying you cannot have a channel that shows human
sacrifice -- real human sacrifice. You think that is
unconstitutional?
MS. MILLETT: I think, if the point is that
we don't like the could content, we don't -- we want to
protect people from these images, the First Amendment
says a lot about that.
If it's a different -- snuff video, because,
like child pornography, like I said, it's not the
content that we are concerned about, where obscenity is
a pure content baseline.
It is -- we got to stop -- we can't stop the
conduct. The conduct and the speech are inextricably
intertwined. The only way we can stop human sacrifice
is to stop the image because the sacrifice is solely
for the image.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, right, but, I
mean, the hypothetical is we can't do anything about it.
It is beyond our reach to stop the human sacrifice
taking place wherever in the world, so that that
argument -- the Ferber argument is off the table.
In that situation, you think it's
unconstitutional for Congress to pass a law saying there
can be no human sacrifice channel.
MS. MILLETT: I -- I think the fact that --
I think it would be a lot harder under the First
Amendment to say why Congress is doing that.
If it's not something -- if it's not conduct
it has any authority to regulate, I don't -- then the
only compelling interest is -- I'm trying -- I mean, I
don't want to watch this channel, and people should
fight with their wallets and their votes and not support
these things, but -- I'm sorry.
May I finish?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. Go ahead.
MS. MILLETT: But, under the First
Amendment, if the only rationale Congress is giving is
we are here to shield your eyes for you, we will make
this censorial decision, it has got to find some basis
to think that was never freedom of the speech under the
First Amendment, in the way that obscenity was.
You don't get to make it up as you go along.
We are interpreting a constitution.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
Mr. Katyal, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL K. KATYAL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KATYAL: There is one analytic move
Congress made in Section 48, which is simple and
obvious, and it explains why both the human sacrifice
channel is constitutional, as well as Section 48 itself.
That is the logic of Ferber. When Congress
tries to dry up a market for underlying cruelty by
targeting depictions and leaves alternative mechanisms
for that expression in place, the legislature has
latitude.
When the statute is not aimed at the
communicative impact of the message, like the Hitler
video, but, rather, is aimed at reducing underlying acts
of exploitation, that is an area which Congress has
great leeway.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand. Are
you saying, since there is no human sacrifice in this
country and no market to be dried up, the videos would
be okay?
MR. KATYAL: I'm saying that, if Congress
identified a market and if a video -- if the snuff video
market was driving, somehow, people to get killed,
Congress would be fully within its power to regulate it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah; but we don't have any
human sacrifice. Nobody's doing that stuff. So you
could not proscribe the human sacrifice channel.
MR. KATYAL: That's precisely correct, but,
here, Congress did find an overwhelming market in animal
cruelty, and the State attorney's general that filed a
brief before you saying that Section 48 is a success
story, that it dried up 3,000 crush videos, that it has
reduced the market for animal --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How many prosecutions
have there been for crush videos?
MR. KATYAL: There -- there haven't been any
prosecutions for crush videos, and I think the reason is
because the market dried up very quickly after the
enactment of Section 48.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did I just
understand you to agree with your colleague on the other
side, that Congress could not ban the human sacrifice
channel because there would be no connection between
drying up the underlying activity?
MR. KATYAL: Oh, no. If there is an
underlying argument --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. I'm saying there
is no connection. We can't reach the activity where it
is taking place.
MR. KATYAL: I think that does start to
reach into questions about obscenity and expressive
impact on viewers, which is not before this Court.
Congress is not resting its judgment here on something
saying these images are repulsive and can't be seen.
Rather, it is saying --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if Congress is --
and we will give you sufficient rebuttal time.
So, if Congress is saying, Look, we just
don't like what -- is being shown on the human sacrifice
channel, we don't want people to see it, they can't do
that?
MR. KATYAL: Again, that raises a whole
different set of questions under obscenity and
expressive impact that isn't before the Court here.
Now, if I could return to, Justice Stevens,
you had he wasn't clear on the position on hunting. I
want to be very clear on this.
Hunting, like the other hypotheticals, is
not covered by section 48 for two reasons: First, the
statute -- the statute's term "animal cruelty" should be
defined to encompass torture, mutilation and the like,
and not simple acts of ordinary hunting, most of which,
by the way, are legal anyway under animal cruelty.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How about the statute's
term, "kill" --
MR. KATAYAL: And again --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- what should that be
interpreted to mean?
MR. KATYAL: And again, Justice Scalia, as I
said before, I think that comes within a definition of
animal cruelty. That's the term being defined. And
just as this Court has defined, for example, crimes of
violence to exclude certain things that otherwise would
be within the statute, such as drunk driving offenses in
the context of the IMA, a similar result is possible
here, particularly because of the doctrine of
constitutional avoidance.
And, so, we are saying that if this Court
were to write an opinion that made clear that these
things are outside of the purview of section 48, there
would be no chilling effect, and you wouldn't have to --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Wait, I want to just be
sure I understand you. Even if the hunting depiction is
very offensive and cruel and all the rest, and that the
cruelty to the animal using bow and arrows or knives or
something, you say it's not -- and even if it's illegal
in this particular jurisdiction, you say the statute
still does not apply at all?
MR. KATYAL: It would have to be for a
reason of animal cruelty or something like torture,
mutilation and the like. So there may be certain
hunting examples that fall within it --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the hunting would
never qualify, because the hunter's motive is benign; is
that what you are saying?
MR. KATYAL: No, it has nothing to do with
the motive, it has to do with what happens to the
animal. And, so, there could be images of hunting which
are not really hunting, like the images in this case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you shoot a little low
and wound the animal, that is cruelty even though you
didn't intend that.
MR. KATYAL: Justice Scalia, with all due
respect, I think the images in this case and what
Congress was getting at was not shooting a little low.
These are the most horrific images that you can imagine
of cruelty to living animals. And that's what
Congress --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But what about your
response to Justice Stevens on the hunting matter? I
understand Congress wasn't directed at --
MR. KATYAL: And my point if those -- if
there are those cases at the area -- at the gray areas,
that is perfect for as applied challenge, but it's not
what this Court -- this Court shouldn't be blessing the
Third Circuit's decision to in toto invalidate an entire
statute which has produced -- which has produced 3,000
crush videos and the like.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
both counsel, for very able presentation. The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:06 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
ago 3:10 7:1 Amendment's 1:14 associated 17:22
60:19 agree 25:22 45:6 American 7:1 41:25 as-applied 11:14
26:19 50:17 51:20 analysis 3:15,17 29:8,10 41:5 attack 30:20,21
ahead 54:25 analytically applies 3:23 attempt 4:24
aims 20:5 24:8 42:10 59:9 attorney's 56:16
33:6,6 9:9 10:24 17:8 approved 9:24 automatically
23:21 27:20 26:6 27:3 28:3 39:4 41:24,25 avoid 13:4
11:20 30:7,15 33:21 40:20 43:25 51:1,12 56:1 aware 40:13
48:14 animals 3:22 argument 1:12 B
45:18 47:21 51:24 27:14 44:20 27:8 28:10 balance 27:5
57:5,9 allow 11:5 39:7 60:3 33:10 44:23,25 ban 27:17 34:7
26:5 allowed 27:18 12:21 24:3 57:7 53:11 57:3
ambiguity 33:13 answering 52:20 arrow 16:9 basic 16:21
24:18 31:18 anymore 22:10 34:24 13:10
35:2,5 36:24 apparently artistic 9:21 began 3:17
42:13 44:13,15 appeal 29:17 21:9 37:5,7 behalf 1:16,18
24:22 46:3 case-by-case 52:6 53:14 16:2
bullfight 11:3 10:11 54:7,25 55:9 colleague 57:2
48:17 12:12 13:9 categories 6:5 child 6:23 9:18 come 22:9 26:22
15:14,20,22 35:3 38:1 9:19,22,25 38:20 39:22
bull-fighting 36:5 45:23 44:19 48:8 50:14,20
59:6 buy 43:16,17 censorial 27:19 Circuit 3:13 7:19,20
C 16:1,23 58:19 39:14 43:23 32:13 49:4
19:17,20 call 14:20 15:6 cetera 4:18 50:7 compelling 6:8
39:19 challenge 14:15 cite 44:4 48:11 54:20
49:1,18 calls 48:1 60:10 cities 7:2 complicated
camera 25:7 challenges 11:14 civil 7:3 40:18 21:16
34:12 careful 11:17 change 39:12 clause 8:12 10:8 concentration
carefully 48:7 changes 42:24 15:4,6,13 21:7 34:8
38:10,16 6:14,15,24 7:1 50:1 52:1,9 19:21 38:3 concern 39:17
7:12 8:24 53:16 54:14,21 42:4 58:2,3,25 concerned 8:4
14:2,4,13,18 57:4,21 49:22 40:17 47:24,25
20:17,18 34:20 Chief 3:3,8 6:3 coalition 6:19,20 conduct 7:21
38:6 41:25 39:25 48:17 crimes 58:18 December 42:18
4:5,7,7,21 48:25 Court 1:1,12 3:9 cruelty 3:12,21 decides 23:5
5:2 6:8,20 construction 3:16 6:2,17,17 3:25 4:9,14 5:3deciding 39:25
8:11 9:2 3:17 33:8,23 6:25 9:24 10:7 8:14,21 9:9 decision 5:14
11:20 construing 10:9 11:15 10:24 17:8 6:18 8:6 11:16
20:5 33:13 12:4 14:8,8,22 18:23 19:1,8 18:11 25:24
21:6 contained 19:23 18:23 19:15 27:3 31:5 39:14 43:23
22:7 contemplate 20:11 22:20 36:20 40:20 55:4 60:12
29:6,8 51:16 24:15,20,22 55:19 56:16 decisions 10:10
32:14 contemplation 26:22 27:11 58:6,9,17 59:6 44:21
34:3 47:8 28:8 29:13,20 59:11,22 60:3 declined 33:15
35:23 content 6:10 8:4 31:1,16,22,25 crush 4:10,11,14 decrease 39:10
39:2 8:6,8 10:14,15 32:23 33:14,14 5:15 8:17 13:8 deer 13:10
45:17 14:14,14,16 34:1,21 37:20 20:14,15 22:14 defer 45:18,23
47:23 30:25 52:22,23 38:3 40:6 42:3 27:20,24 34:8 48:6
53:10,20,25 42:9 45:1,4 34:10 39:13 defined 18:24
52:1,7,23 54:1 48:5 57:13,25 41:15 42:7 19:15 37:2
54:13 contents 6:22 58:18,24 60:11 43:24 56:18,21 58:7,17,18
55:2,15 contests 23:3,11 60:11 56:23 60:14 defining 18:22
56:1,7 context 18:18,21 courtroom crushing 28:2 definition 18:24
57:3 21:8 34:17 39:18 crystal 19:21 37:19 58:16
58:21 courts 21:2 current 34:9 degradation 7:6
contexts 42:11 Court's 5:22 cut 36:2 degrading 7:10
contradicted 8:5 25:23 33:23 D 1:16
9:23 10:23 cover 43:4 damage 36:10 depends 17:21
45:12 20:2 58:5 dangerous 53:8 depict 7:21
11:12 crafted 3:11 de 13:12 depicted 32:12
46:7 correct 5:1,11 created 48:3 16:6 32:6 38:7 6:22 7:4 12:9
34:1 counsel 21:11 35:15 48:4 dealt 5:4 6:18 depictions 3:12
55:8 39:20 55:9 47:25 death 23:12 28:3 8:15,20 12:11
11:14 count 37:10 credit 21:6 46:5,8 36:15,19 47:17
21:13 country 27:14 crime 19:15 debates 34:15 55:20
37:22 32:9 35:17 32:4 35:8 36:3 44:22 Deputy 1:15
35:3 15:21,21,24 educate 49:6 46:24 48:23 explicitly 12:4
38:24 32:9 35:16,17 16:18,23 24:6 evident 7:23 55:21
34:16 50:2 ex 17:19 10:13 34:23
22:11 33:13 50:21 39:9 59:2 26:4 27:12 extensive 4:9
19:13 dollars 30:11 either 25:23 19:21 27:16 34:14
23:22 doubled 37:25 31:4 48:22 37:15 extermination
25:1 doubt 23:8,14 enactment examines 4:1 47:6
36:24
41:10,11 drafted 27:22 encompass 5:18 14:1 24:14
53:23 41:13 58:7 58:18 F
draw 9:17,17 encompasses examples 59:13 face 3:13 7:24
drawing 48:15 endless 11:18 35:22 49:19 18:8 41:16
37:19,20 engage 27:15 excise 33:18 45:11 48:19
38:13 drunk 58:20 entire 11:20 12:4 fanciful 11:18
20:12 35:20,21,23 entirely 22:3 9:2,3 10:1 24:20 33:12,13
58:22 55:19 49:8 13:16 16:22 43:3 49:5
dry-up 43:19 error 5:22 exemptions 8:12 fasteners 17:24
20:20 D.C 1:8,16,18 2:5,8 exist 53:2
E 48:24 experience 12:1 6:13,16,17,17
27:23 E 2:1 3:1,1 et 4:18 13:23 14:9,10 6:19 22:21
easy 42:6 ethnic 48:16 explained 31:1
25:1,23
46:3
31:17,24 46:2 47:3,7,10 fundamentally good 45:1 hieroglyphic
35:5 48:8 50:5,19 7:12 goose 38:14 43:4
45:1 51:1,5,21 53:9 gotten 13:6 high 28:2
49:23 53:21 54:16 G government higher 40:20
55:18 55:1,6 58:5 G 3:1 10:20 24:4 historic 47:1
26:8 focus 27:21 19:23 39:20 governmental historically
54:22 45:25 56:16 10:2 31:17
5:17,20 focusing 4:10 16:6 17:8 27:16,18 35:4 38:7
22:2,3 fois 13:12 38:13 generate 8:21 GPS 22:24 Hitler 47:4,5
27:24 follow 48:22 getting 26:7 gras 13:12 38:13 53:6 55:24
44:7,8 followed 20:13 30:4 44:9 60:1 gray 60:9 holes 20:12
following 10:1 GINSBURG great 37:2 56:2 home 42:25
25:4 follow-up 30:16 16:3,14,25 ground 45:19 Honor 18:9
31:7,7 footage 9:8 22:16,25 24:25 gruesome 17:12 50:23
footnote 22:21 25:13,17 34:6 guess 12:18 20:4 hope 40:9
forbid 13:17 35:19 43:18,22 32:11 41:22 horrible 47:5,8
forcefully 46:9 give 14:1,4 18:6 Halloween Hudnut 7:2
56:15 8:14 giving 20:22 happens 39:5 54:4,9,14
32:1 44:9 53:3 23:3,11 22:23 34:20 humane 13:11
21:23,25 frankly 40:10 35:18 36:1 harm 32:1 36:6 hundred 44:7
24:18 free 6:19,19 43:3 50:19 36:7 47:16,17 hundreds 42:8
28:21 25:24 31:1 54:25 55:7 47:19 hunt 37:14
32:7,8 freedom 42:20 goes 21:20 25:6 hate 46:1 hunter's 59:15
34:1,3 55:5 30:13 50:5 hear 3:3 13:21 hunting 4:16,17
36:1 freer 10:12 52:25 heard 33:10 4:19 13:10,10
37:24 frightful 20:6 going 11:11 41:19 13:10,10,14
39:4 fully 56:10 27:13 31:24 heavily 42:15 16:8,9,13 17:7
41:18 fun 26:8 33:12 38:17 heeled 28:2 17:8,10,11
44:13 fundamental 44:8,13,20 held 21:3 36:15,17,19
45:12 5:22 49:2 50:4,8 help 44:10 37:12 38:12
included 15:21 involved 36:16 23:20,21 24:2 15:9,12,24
58:2,4,8 including 14:8 44:7 24:7,11,12,17 16:5,11,13,16
47:6 involves 47:16 24:25 25:13,17 17:4,7,13 18:9
60:6 incredibly 47:15 issue 3:19 9:9 26:7,11,17,20 18:11,17,21
inextricably J 30:6,7,15 31:9 22:13,20 23:9
30:12 32:4 54:3 J 1:6 31:11,19 32:10 23:13,16,23
31:12,20 inferred 11:15 Japan 22:17,18 33:5,7,9,17,20 24:12,22,25
47:21 influence 48:18 25:9,10 30:11 34:6,19 35:19 25:8,15,22
information 30:13 36:9,12 37:4,9 26:9,14,19
14:19 informed 44:18 job 33:23 39:3 38:23 39:8,17 56:7,14,22
38:11,24 inherent 9:15 Johnson 50:15 40:4,24 41:2,3 57:6,11,23
58:4 insists 27:17 joined 14:8 41:8,12,22 58:15 59:10,17
16:4 49:12 judgment 9:14 46:21 47:2,9 14:1,8,13,18
instincts 51:1,4 44:15 57:14 47:12,20,21 14:25 15:10
49:21 51:9,14,18 judicial 10:3 48:9,14 49:1 30:6 31:9,19
integrally 47:18 jurisdiction 49:18 50:8,11 44:23 45:7,15
32:4 49:8 21:8 24:13 52:6,13,18,25 Kennedy's
47:25 intent 15:1 jury 37:1 39:24 53:6,14 54:7 39:17
54:5,6 32:23 Justice 1:16 3:3 54:25 55:9 kept 34:14
35:15 29:16 5:8,12 6:3,14 57:1,8,17 58:1 kill 18:2,2,17,20
42:8 interest 6:8 10:6 6:25 7:16,22 58:10,13,15 19:11,18,20,24
23:25 24:9 8:3,18 9:5,19 59:3,14,21,24 19:25 50:9
53:21 26:23 29:18 9:23 10:16 60:5,6,15 58:11
59:19,20 34:23 54:20 11:16 12:7,8 killed 17:16,17
60:2 interests 36:10 12:13,18,21,22 K 17:18 18:21
55:24 19:16 58:14 15:10,17 16:3 KATAYAL 29:17 36:16,19
interpreting 16:8,14,16,19 58:12 knew 14:14
intertwined 18:16,19,25 4:7,19 5:11,13 know 8:23 10:22
54:4 19:20 20:13,15 7:22 8:10 9:1 13:18 15:22
43:5 level 39:2 4:16,18 5:3,7,9 26:2,4,7,8,12 59:15,18
44:16 light 32:22 6:23 8:13,14 26:25 27:2,12 move 25:24
46:18 limit 17:18 18:3 8:17 11:3 17:2 27:23,25,25 55:14
18:7 21:19 27:3 55:24 movie 22:4,5
lines 16:19 30:7 43:8,10,14,16 Miller 37:20,21 mugging 21:18
49:23 live 23:7 30:10 matter 1:11 9:21 33:1,6,8,11 mutilation 26:5
24:10 60:3 9:7 10:22 37:15,24 38:18 N
loaded 26:1 17:24 20:4 39:2,15 40:9 N 2:1,1 3:1
40:21 logic 55:18 34:7 36:18 41:18 42:3 nails 17:23,24
53:16 long 6:11 8:1 37:18 43:16 43:2,9,13,21 narrow 19:12
13:13,14 26:1 46:17 47:16 44:3 45:6,9,21 50:6 52:11
26:1,20 looks 48:7 meanings 17:21 53:19 54:15 2:8 3:6 55:12
lot 30:12 37:25 18:1,15 55:1 necessarily
51:16 53:22 7:19 17:25 mind 28:16 29:8 necessary 41:25
30:22 lust 32:14 meat 19:1 minutes 55:10 50:21
33:10 mechanism 30:4 missed 15:19 net 30:3
40:3 58:9 M 30:4 modified 6:18 never 35:12
18:24 man 10:25 14:20 member 14:7 money 23:6 Nobody's 56:12
25:25 manner 11:22 Members 34:13 49:14 50:16,21 noneducational
march 48:13 mentioned morning 3:4 17:1
market 3:25 4:9 message 10:13 motive 35:14 NRA 37:16
46:2 particular 13:19 performance 10:16 14:21
42:6 59:8 permission 24:14,19,23
24:14,18 8:20 54:13 PETA 8:20 posit 34:4
28:13 Osborne 9:24 passes 53:15 Petitioner 1:4 posited 33:20
31:17 ought 45:16,18 pate 13:12 1:17 2:4,9 3:7 position 29:22
35:7 Outdoor 39:20 patently 29:16 55:13 58:2
37:22 outraged 45:3 paternalistic photographs possible 32:25
46:6 outside 35:4 26:23 7:10 43:2,3 46:10 58:21
55:6 39:18 42:19 path 10:10 physician 10:3 possibly 38:11
44:13,15 51:12 PATRICIA 1:18 picture 13:19 post-Ferber
26:24 42:21 people 10:24,25 21:18 23:4,5 56:14
overbroad 14:3 11:3,6 13:3,7 26:20 44:12 present 46:4
48:20 35:6 22:5,8 27:24 57:10 presents 14:12
overly 15:5 29:5 32:17 37:13 places 24:3 18:13
overseas 30:22 40:16,22 42:24 please 3:9 27:11 32:1 46:24
16:11 overwhelmingly 46:1,3,15,17 point 9:2 11:6 20:1 21:3
26:18 34:23 47:16 50:9 18:20 32:10,10 primary 35:14
56:6 51:14 52:22 40:21 45:10 principally 29:8
P 3:1 56:9 57:21 53:4,19 60:8 probably 46:18
27:16 34:22 49:11 51:1,3 13:9 21:25 36:1
18:14 paid 50:13 percent 46:12 36:22 52:11
33:13 pain 7:5 46:14 political 8:19,24 problems 31:8
paradigmatic perceptible 12:25 21:9 34:4
60:13,13 47:19 question 12:21 reason 14:18 requisite 30:19
prosecuting 31:25 36:12 59:11 reserve 27:5
26:1 44:11 57:12,24 58:5 11:24 17:7
29:22 prosecutions quickly 56:24 rebuttal 2:7 24:13 43:13,24
31:1 56:20,23 quite 7:22 9:23 55:12 57:18 59:25
48:23 prosecutor 10:20 25:1 recognized respond 11:10
12:16 13:2 38:3 40:6,10 37:21 Respondent
18:4 prosecutorial quote 10:1 30:19,24 34:2 27:9
30:14,17 36:2 quoting 34:21 34:7,9 Respondents
47:13 prosecutors records 48:7 13:25
14:3 R reduced 21:19 response 13:21
23:15,19 protected 24:19 race 47:6 reducing 21:23 rest 39:11 59:5
30:23 28:5 46:8 49:6 raise 14:12 55:25 resting 57:14
36:15 51:13 23:24 reflecting 8:12 restrained 14:4
prove 24:5 raised 16:20 regulate 4:24 restricted 34:22
35:25 36:5,8 23:18 6:10 42:14 restriction 3:11
prurient 29:18 ratio 42:6 regulated 42:12 restrictions
30:13 27:19 reach 4:21 30:2 relevance 12:3 result 43:20
pure 54:1 reaches 3:20 religious 8:16 return 58:1
29:18 39:6 19:22,24 20:16 46:25 right 5:10 7:24
30:8 purview 59:1 38:17 39:12 repeatedly 4:24 46:2,13 54:7
put 15:22 41:5 43:7 53:17 reply 27:16 rings 44:7,8
puts 27:18 realistic 11:21 repression 50:5 risk 13:4
quail 13:13 really 11:5 17:3 require 13:7 6:3 8:3,18
qualitative 42:5 36:14 38:23 required 34:2 34:19 37:18
52:6 7:16,23 10:16 44:4,5 57:15 8:2 21:18 specific 16:6
54:7,25 11:16 12:8,13 sees 6:8 26:14,17 27:15 31:10
57:1,8,17 12:18 13:9 selling 23:6 simultaneous speech 6:5,19,20
17:1,6,17 sense 42:14 25:5 8:9 25:24
19:5,10,14 sent 25:10 19:10 45:5 31:1,13 36:1,4
36:9 set 42:5 57:24 45:13 51:13,21 53:12
52:1,9 51:20 53:6 sexual 7:5 snuff 48:1 52:25 23:1
56:3,11 58:10 sexually 28:1 53:1,23 56:8 spoken 26:3
58:13,15 59:21 shape 19:4 social 37:7 squarely 39:24
56:4,12 59:24 60:5 sheep 13:10 society 44:22 staging 23:6
57:3,20 scalpel 39:3 shield 55:3 sociis 17:19 stake 34:24
42:21 shocked 40:12 sold 4:12 5:10 standard 13:2,7
20:17,25 seconds 11:9 shown 57:20 sort 8:21 21:14 3:4,16,20 4:17
31:5 section 3:10 shows 39:10 23:3 29:23 5:23 6:16
34:14,18 5:18 9:3 11:13 48:10 53:16 42:25 11:17 14:6
52:4 16:18 23:19 side 27:15 46:4 Sotomayor 4:3,6 15:25 18:12
54:13 55:15,17 56:17 46:8 57:3 4:13 9:5,19,24 22:1,2,14
57:8 56:25 58:5 significant 11:6 16:19 52:13,18 statute 3:13,15
59:1 37:2,4,5,21 Sotomayor's 3:19,20,23 4:1
59:16 sections 9:10 45:16 12:21 5:4,15,18,24
17:20 32:18 37:14 simple 55:15 sounds 23:16 9:15,25 10:8
29:16 42:21 44:19 58:8 Spanish 12:4,11 11:22 12:1
32:21 45:2,4 46:15 simpler 20:3 23:2 13:23 14:2,11
42:9 46:18 52:4,22 simply 7:18 13:8 speak 17:22 14:23,23 15:3
53:9,22 57:21 35:25 speaking 50:13 15:15 17:5,15
21:1 strict 28:9,11 T theory 31:15,24 54:12,15,16
29:20 48:12 T 2:1,1 48:23 52:21 55:5 56:23
24:3 Strictly 37:9 table 54:11 thin 37:20 57:11 58:16
26:3,18 string 17:20 tacks 17:23 thing 16:21 20:3 59:25
27:1 strong 20:17,18 tailored 52:16 24:8 42:25 thinking 32:12
struck 3:13 5:15 tailoring 52:11 49:8,10,24 thinks 35:18
5:21,25 take 12:23 23:4 things 13:14,17 Third 3:13 4:1
studies 10:5 38:5 44:13 13:24 17:5 5:14,21 39:14
stuff 56:12 taken 22:2 25:6 18:5 20:6 43:23 60:12
stuffing 13:12 talk 4:20 11:4 21:14 23:6 Thomas 50:18
subject 7:3 talking 40:17 25:8 28:16 thought 38:14
32:22,22 14:15 36:22 41:19,20 42:7 31:4,22 32:15 41:13 50:24
39:24 45:13,14 44:12 33:1,19 34:14 thousands 42:8
34:25 46:6 talks 20:21 34:16 35:24 three 28:20
submitted 60:17 target 6:9 25:25 44:14 46:1 29:23 38:4
60:19 targeted 3:11 47:5 48:6 49:3 55:10
40:7 substantial 3:14 29:6 52:21 54:23 thrill 43:11
41:4,6,7 5:25 6:1 11:19 targeting 6:21 58:19 59:1 throw 35:16
20:11 42:21 7:20 10:13,14 think 4:19,22,25 throws 30:2
42:1,9 success 56:17 19:4 21:17 5:22 6:12 8:5 thumb 17:23
44:2,18 successfully 55:20 8:10,11 10:23 27:19
46:23,24 44:10 tearing 9:12 10:24 11:11 tied 47:18
49:7,15 sufficient 57:18 technology 13:11 15:2,9 time 4:12 25:2
58:6,20 suggested 43:22 42:24 15:12,15 17:3 25:11 27:5
60:13 suggests 11:23 tell 8:18 9:6 15:1 18:25 19:7 32:8 33:10
33:11 summarily 7:1 ten 3:10 12:1 22:4,14 23:23 Title 3:10
7:10 13:22 30:11 23:23 24:3,12 toenails 17:24
45:18 suppose 23:2,4 term 18:18 28:15,19 29:12 tool 36:2 50:5
16:8 46:16 48:15 terms 4:21 5:2,4 32:5,20 33:3 26:5 29:16
25:3,7,9 supposed 40:14 14:11 17:4,14 33:12 34:19,20 58:7 59:11
35:15 suppressing 20:10 35:1,2,6,19 tortured 17:16
58:1 23:25 terrific 11:1 36:15,23 37:15 torturing 18:4
60:6 Supreme 1:1,12 test 6:4 11:19 38:10,11,18,23 toto 60:12
survive 28:9,25 tested 15:7 41:10,18 42:6 tradition 35:4
sweeping 35:22 Thank 3:8 27:6 46:12 48:5 10:18 24:18
understanding 5:16 7:20 8:17 60:7 43:8,17 46:17
6:16 11:17 27:20,24,24 50:20 54:4 28:11 31:3
29:4 30:9 40:5 41:15 29:23 35:11 wound 19:24,25
45:10 unprotected 6:5 42:7,25 43:15 weeks 44:6 59:22
49:3,5 20:14 28:12 43:24 56:5,18 went 15:1 wounded 17:16
54:20 31:18 38:8 56:21,23 60:14 we'll 31:6 wrapped 35:9
25:8 use 8:2 27:15,18 46:18,21 whatsoever 44:3 written 3:22
33:1 38:5 viewers 26:24 wide 18:14,20 26:15,15 32:8
42:11 57:13 30:3 40:22,23 wrong 15:2,3
49:2 V violation 7:8 wildly 15:4 wrongly 19:16
53:4 v 1:5 3:4,16,20 violence 19:15 Williams 3:16 wrote 18:11
5:23 6:16,17 22:5,6 58:19 5:24 11:17 50:16
38:3 virtually 14:7 willing 28:18 x 1:2,7
42:1 value 13:1 24:6 want 10:25 11:6 18:7,7,17 18:12
54:13 35:22 36:22,22 11:8 13:15 19:11,13 26:15 years 3:10 7:1
38:5 40:1 29:11 30:24 words 12:24 39:9
7:14 26:16 53:20 54:21 0
10:14 various 17:21 57:21 58:3 08-769 1:5 3:4
21:3
21:17 18:1 59:3 33:21 34:2 1
26:1 versus 33:4 wanted 48:13 52:15 10:03 1:13 3:2
55:19,25 video 5:16 9:6 wants 8:1 13:17 work 4:1 15:13 100 46:12,14
9:12 20:16 14:20 23:5 21:2 44:16 11:06 60:18
13:3 25:3 48:1 53:23 Washington 1:8 works 38:4 18 3:10
44:20 55:25 56:8,8 1:16,18 44:17 19 22:21
57:2 59:4 videos 4:10,10 wasn't 8:16 world 23:7 35:7 1999 8:14 42:18
4:10
42:7
11:9
1:9
2:6
2:4 27:16
4:10 56:18
3:10 5:18 9:3
16:18
55:15,17
58:5
15:25 22:14
2:9
1:9
34:22
