IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
VERMONT, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-88
MICHAEL BRILLON. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, January 13, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:16 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CHRISTINA RAINVILLE, ESQ., Chief Deputy State's
Attorney, Bennington, Vt.; on behalf of the
Petitioner.
LEONDRA R. KRUGER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington,
D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioner.
WILLIAM A. NELSON, ESQ., Middlebury, Vt.; on behalf of
the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CHRISTINA RAINVILLE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
LEONDRA R. KRUGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioner 19
WILLIAM A. NELSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CHRISTINA RAINVILLE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:16 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 08-88, Vermont v. Brillon.
Ms. Rainville.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTINA RAINVILLE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. RAINVILLE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
There are many reasons to reverse the
Vermont Supreme Court in this case. I am going to begin
by addressing four reasons as a matter of law that do
not require the Court to -- to review the record. The
first is, even if we assume that the public defender is
an assigned counsel -- and for the purposes of argument,
I am just going to use the term "public defender." If
we assume that public defenders do little or nothing in
a case, one cannot have a rule that that time is
chargeable under the speedy trial right to the State
because to do so creates chaos of constitutional
proportions in the criminal justice system.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I ask you a question
that goes at least to one possible application of -- of
your argument? Your argument for the State, the
position that you just took, would -- would apply to the
period of time, as I understand it, in which the
individual named, the defender named Sleigh, had been
appointed to -- to represent the defendant.
And as I understand it, when this case was
argued in the Supreme Court of Vermont, the State
conceded that, in fact, some prejudice should be
attributed and it should be held against the State that
Sleigh in effect did nothing. They said, well, don't
hold it against us quite as much as you might, but, in
any case, that can be held against us.
Here you don't take that position, and I --
I don't know whether it's open to you -- it seems to me
that it's not open to you -- to take a different
position with respect to Sleigh here than the Attorney
General of Vermont did when it was before the Supreme
Court of Vermont. And I -- I have to assume that you
just see it differently from the way the Attorney
General did. But would -- would you comment on -- on
the position that the State took and tell me why you can
take a different position here?
MS. RAINVILLE: Yes. Yes, Your Honor. The
State did take the position that the eight-month period,
which included the four months where Attorney Sleigh was
involved, was a neutral factor. And under the dicta in
Barker, that would allow the Court to apply it against
the State, although not to weigh it heavily as a -- as a
neutral factor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes.
MS. RAINVILLE: That was dicta in Barker,
but controlling to the Vermont Supreme Court. Before
this Court, however, on these facts --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it was conceded, wasn't
it, in the -- in the Vermont Supreme Court?
MS. RAINVILLE: It was conceded that it was
a neutral time period.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes.
MS. RAINVILLE: And -- and --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, then, why isn't that
concession binding here?
MS. RAINVILLE: I think it -- it may be
binding if the Court determines it's binding. But I
don't think it should be binding because this Court is
considering policy that's going to affect all States and
all courts. And the issue that was raised by the
National Governors Association, for example, as to
whether public defenders can be State actors -- and the
law is clear that they cannot -- that's an important
issue.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it is, but that is
not an issue that is necessarily implied by the -- by
the concession that the Attorney General made in the
Vermont Supreme Court.
MS. RAINVILLE: Yes. Yes, but also if you
look at the record, the three years of delay, the time
period involving Mr. Sleigh is approximately four
months. If you take all four months where he was
appointed by the docket or two months if you take the
time where he thought and understood that he was on the
case, and in light of the three-year delay, that amount
of time is really inconsequential.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It may have been a
good concession below. I mean, it would -- as I
understand it, the problem arose because of change in
the contract, right?
MS. RAINVILLE: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, that may
well have been attributable to the State.
MS. RAINVILLE: It -- it may well have been
attributable to the defender general. And that's one of
the problems in this case is that we don't have a record
of why different attorneys -- Attorney No. 4, Donaldson,
and Attorney No. 5, Sleigh, were never asked what they
did or --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose you are
willing to concede that there are situations where the
delay would be attributable to the State because of
systemic problems?
MS. RAINVILLE: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The State has so
many cases, and it's only willing to hire one lawyer.
That lawyer can't possibly handle all the cases.
MS. RAINVILLE: Absolutely. But that's not
the case here. That might be the situation if, for
example, the defender general said to every defendant:
If you want a trial with a lawyer, you have to wait a
year. That's not what happened here.
What happened here is the defender general
was incredibly diligent. He appointed new counsel five
times the same day. The day of the arraignment Mr.
Ammons was appointed. The day Mr. Ammons withdrew,
replacement counsel, Mr. Harnett, was appointed. The
day Mr. Harnett withdrew, replacement counsel was
appointed. The day Mr. Donaldson withdrew, the docket
shows that Sleigh was appointed. Five times the same
day the defender general appointed counsel.
The sixth time, given that we are in
Vermont, a very small State with few lawyers, he had
difficulty finding a sixth lawyer. But the defender
general took extraordinary measures and went to the
Vermont Legislature and obtained funding, and the
legislature came up to the plate very quickly, in a
matter of weeks.
The last withdrawal of Lawyer No. 5 happens
on April 10th. It's June 20th that there is the letter
in the appendix from the defender general saying that
the legislature has approved new funding. It's -- it's
literally a matter of weeks before the legislature comes
to the plate and provides additional funding.
So to the extent that -- that that is State
action, the defender general has been incredibly
expeditious, incredibly diligent, and went to the
extraordinary length of getting additional funding for
the sixth lawyer. We -- we would concede --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess when -- when the
last two lawyers withdrew because their contracts had
expired, I suppose the court could have refused to
permit them to withdraw, couldn't it?
MS. RAINVILLE: It could have.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Couldn't it say you -- you
have an ethical duty; having undertaken representation,
and it being very difficult to get anybody else, you --
you stay in the case?
MS. RAINVILLE: The -- the court could have,
and certainly --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does it make it not the
State's court -- not the State's fault no matter what?
Is -- is the court's misfeasance the State's
misfeasance? Do you attribute that to the State?
MS. RAINVILLE: The court's misfeasance
would -- would certainly be attributable to the State,
but we would argue that it would be a neutral factor.
But here, Your Honor, Brillon would -- in terms of the
fourth lawyer, Mr. Donaldson, he sought to have him
fired. And, in fact, it was his letter to the court and
then a subsequent motion to the court to have that
lawyer dismissed. And in that colloquy when the -- when
the -- the trial judge asked Brillon, do you want to
have -- do you still want to have him fired despite all
this delay and everything, and Brillon says yes, clearly
the court with regard to Donaldson could have said to
Donaldson, you stay on this case and get this case to
trial. But Brillon waived that. Brillon said that he
wanted a new lawyer.
With regard to Sleigh --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- with that particular
period. The trouble that I have with that particular
period is August 1, 2003, to June 14, 2004, isn't that
right? That is Donaldson -- or that's Moore?
MS. RAINVILLE: That's Moore.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Donaldson was
the first one?
MS. RAINVILLE: Donaldson was actually
Lawyer No. 4.
JUSTICE BREYER: Go ahead.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOUTER: Before you start, let me
just make a comment and a -- and a question based on it.
The comment is I -- I'm willing to accept a lot of what
you say here, there is plenty of blame to go around.
But you accept, as I understand it, the proposition that
the State has simply got an affirmative duty to make
some kind of effective trial and representation
arrangement. It -- it -- it has that duty through
providing the public defender, it has that duty simply
through providing a court that will keep things moving,
and I think that's common ground.
If that, as it seems to be, is common
ground, then do we have anything before us in this case,
except sort of going through the list of counsel, the
list of reasons, the list of delays and reviewing the
Vermont Supreme Court on, in effect, the details that it
assumed in applying the rule? In other words, it seems
to me that there isn't an issue of principle dividing
the parties here, it's a series of issues of details.
Is that an unfair way to look at the case as we've got
it?
MS. RAINVILLE: You can certainly look at it
in terms of details, and I think that the Vermont
Supreme Court's findings are unsupported by the record.
But as a matter of law, you have delays by State actors,
and even if you take the two or the four months for
Sleigh aside, the rest of the delay, three years of
delay minus -- there's four months, of course, which he
had no counsel -- but three years minus that time, is
all caused by non-State actors.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yeah, but if you take
Sleigh, Donaldson, and the period in which there was
no -- I guess, following Sleigh, in which there was no
counsel appointed at all, you're already up to just
about a year. And a year is -- is enough to trigger
Neil v. Biggers. And so, it seems to me that what --
what the fight, what the serious fight is about is,
well, within the further total of two-year period, who
is to blame for this, who was to blame to that, and
I'm -- I'm not sure that it's of any value to just go
through and second-guess the Supreme Court of Vermont on
those details, because you've got enough in Neil v.
Biggers before you even get to those details.
MS. RAINVILLE: Well, also in terms of just
based on Brillon's admission, there's enough for this
Court to decide the case. He admits that he fired three
different lawyers.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't there -- isn't there
that very important principle involved here that doesn't
simply involve calculating particular periods of delay?
When you have a defendant who starts out by firing a
lawyer and engineering the withdrawal of another lawyer
by threatening a lawyer, is it appropriate then to go
through all of the subsequent periods and attribute the
delay to the defendant or to the prosecution or as a
neutral factor as if those, the initial events, hadn't
occurred?
We don't know how quickly this case would
have gone to trial if the first lawyer hadn't been fired
or if the third lawyer, I guess it was, had not been
threatened and forced to withdraw.
MS. RAINVILLE: I believe you're absolutely
right, Justice Alito. In this case his conduct was so
unconscionable in threatening both his lawyer, and the
facts there --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I really wanted to ask you
pretty much exactly the same question. If we assume
exactly the terrible way he fired the first two -- the
first lawyer certainly, maybe the second, would it be
true that no matter how long the delay occurred after
that, he could never get Sixth Amendment relief?
MS. RAINVILLE: I would -- I wouldn't go
that far, Justice Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Why not?
MS. RAINVILLE: Because what if the State
kept him for ten years without a trial? I don't think
that would ever happen. Certainly on these facts
there's no basis, given his conduct, to balance anything
in his favor. Vermont's --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there -- as I
understand it, that that first year the Vermont Supreme
Court agrees with you.
MS. RAINVILLE: That's right.
JUSTICE BREYER: They said, we're not
counting any of that against you.
Now we go into the second year, and the
second year had to do with Mr. Donaldson, a lot of it.
And it turns out that Mr. Donaldson actually had left
the office within a few days of his having been
appointed to do this and then he never did anything. So
the Supreme Court of Vermont says, as far as Mr.
Donaldson is concerned, we do hold that against the
State for the reason that it is the equivalent of not
giving him anybody. The guy they gave him wasn't even a
public defender, he never did a thing. All right.
Now we go to the third group. The third
group, the State agreed they should be charged. That's
Mr. Sleigh. The third one they agreed with it. They
said lightly, but they agreed with it.
And as to the final group, Mrs. Moore, well,
it looks like from the record as if the reason that was
held against the State had nothing to do with her
performance. It had to do with the fact that the State
didn't give certain records to her, which everybody
would agree, if it's true, should be chargeable to the
prosecution, which is the State.
So we have four periods. In one of them you
won; in the second one he had no lawyer at all,
according to the court; in the third one you agree it
should be chargeable to you; and in the fourth one it
has to do possibly with prosecution errors, not defense
errors.
Now, what are we supposed to decide? Are we
supposed to decide whether my statement is, in fact, a
correct statement? If so, why isn't it? I guess we
have to read the record. But what else is there to
decide?
MS. RAINVILLE: I think you can decide it
without reviewing the record, based on the fact that you
have a defendant who fired his first lawyer six months
into the case, one day before trial.
JUSTICE BREYER: And you won that.
MS. RAINVILLE: And then filed -- fired a
second lawyer when the lawyer initially argued and said,
no, no, it's not true, I've been working; he then
threatened to kill the lawyer. Then he at that time was
told: If you want a new lawyer, there's going to be
inevitable delays. He said: That's okay, I still want
to fire this lawyer. Then he went on and fired yet
another lawyer.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose -- I'm not
sure that we necessarily want to get into the particular
details of a very complicated record, but there are
several points in the Vermont Supreme Court opinion
where it says that the failure of assigned lawyers to do
anything to move the case forward is attributable to the
State. And I thought the fundamental principle we were
debating is whether or not assigned lawyers who fail to
move a case forward, whether that is attributable to the
defendant or whether it is attributable to the State
because they happen to work for the State.
And I would assume one way to dispose of the
case would be to decide that general question and send
it back for the Vermont Supreme Court with that guidance
that they were wrong, as a general matter, to assign
delay caused by the counsel to the State, to sort
through the record themselves.
MS. RAINVILLE: And I think that's a very
important point, Mr. Chief Justice.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that point in the case?
Where -- where is that in this case? I don't know who
-- I didn't see anywhere where the Vermont Supreme Court
said anything, said that, except in the instance where
you agreed with them.
Where is it in their -- where is it -- who
are they are referring to when they said that? Is that
Donaldson? Because I thought the claim with Donaldson
was it -- it was not his attribution, nothing he did was
attributed. Rather, it was the State's failure to
appoint anyone, because to appoint Donaldson was to
appoint no one since he had left the office and since he
did nothing.
Now, is that what we're supposed to decide:
When a State appoints a person who has already left the
office and does nothing, under those circumstances is it
correct to attribute to the State their failure to
appoint anybody?
MS. RAINVILLE: Well, first let me address
this point of two lawyers who did little or nothing. In
Strickland v. Washington, this Court said how extremely
important it is when determining ineffective assistance
to have a strong presumption that counsel's conduct
falls within the wide range of reasonable professional
assistance, and that there should be a hearing to ask
counsel what they did.
Here the Vermont Supreme Court makes this
ruling without anyone at any point ever asking Mr.
Donaldson or Mr. Sleigh what they did.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Rainville, underneath
or between the lines there seems to be great discontent
on the part of the Vermont Supreme Court with the way
the public defender system is operating. And if we hold
for you as a matter of the federal speedy trial right,
the Vermont Supreme Court could go back and decide just
the same thing under the Vermont Constitution, couldn't
it?
MS. RAINVILLE: It could except for that we
believe that this decision creates an unconstitutional
situation in creating two different classes of
defendant, indigent and non-indigent, in their speedy
trial rights, such that henceforth the prosecution and
the courts must treat every indigent defendant
differently merely because they're indigent when they
ask for a continuance or when they ask for change of
counsel. We have to oppose those. So that we make the
unpleasant choice of the constitutional due process
violation, that we would rather push a defendant who's
indigent to trial before his counsel's ready, because
the constitutional violation there is only one of due
process and he'll get a new trial, versus agreeing to
allow their counsel to have time to prepare, in which
case we risk a speedy trial violation, where he will be
able to walk free despite his guilt.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Rainville, you -- you
began your presentation with a statement that gave me so
much hope. You said you were going to give us three
reasons why we wouldn't have to get into the hairy facts
of the case and could decide it on -- on issues of law.
Okay? You only mentioned the first. What are the other
two?
MS. RAINVILLE: The second is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Remind us of the first.
MS. RAINVILLE: The first is that this
creates an unconstitutional situation where there are
two classes of defendants treated differently by the
State and by the courts.
The second is that the delays in this case
were caused by non-State actors and as a matter of law
under Polk County cannot be a constitutional violation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that sort of gets us
into the facts at some point. I mean, that does get us
into the facts.
What's the third?
MS. RAINVILLE: The third is that, based on
his concessions, his admissions in the brief, he's
waived it; and that's under Barker v. Wingo where the
Court talks about standard waiver doctrine applies in
speedy trial.
And the fourth is that under the balancing
test based solely on his admissions, his conduct ought
to weigh like a ton of bricks against whatever happened
with the State.
and I'll reserve the rest of my time if I
might for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
We'll hear from Ms. Kruger first.
MR. NELSON: Oh, excuse me.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Kruger.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LEONDRA R. KRUGER
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MS. KRUGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
If you look on pages 27 through 28 of the
Vermont Supreme Court's opinion, it is clear that the
Vermont Supreme Court decided this case on the basis of
a single principle that it applied to the entirety of
the final two years of the pretrial delay in this case,
and that is, as the Chief Justice has noted, that the
failure of defendant's series of assigned counsel to
move his case to trial should be attributable to the
State.
As the question comes before the Court
today, I think the primary point of dispute is whether
there should be an exception to the general rule that a
defendant is responsible for his own lawyer's delays in
situations in which the lawyer purportedly does little
or nothing to move the case to trial; and for four
reasons we think that the Court should decline to create
a kind of attorney inaction exception to the general
rule.
First of all, we think that such a rule
would be inconsistent with the role of a lawyer in an
adversarial system and would undermine a lawyer's
authority to make day-to-day decisions about the
scheduling of pretrial proceedings.
Second, we think that such a rule would be
enormously difficult for courts to administer in
practice, because attorney inaction is generally
difficult to discern in the midst of pretrial
proceedings and the risk of error would be to deprive
the defendant of the time that his lawyer may genuinely
need in order to prepare an effective defense.
The third reason is that it would create
opportunities for gamesmanship; it would create
incentives for defendants to use the services of their
lawyer so long as it suits them, but then to complain
later that the lawyer was inactive and therefore they
should not be held responsible for the lawyer's delay.
And as to the lawyers themselves, it would create an
incentive to unreasonably delay, with the comfort of
knowing that the worst that would happen is the best
possible outcome for their client, which is the
dismissal of charges with prejudice.
And finally, we think that such a rule would
create an unjustifiable distinction between the
treatments of appointed counsel and retained counsel in
our system.
JUSTICE SOUTER: With respect to that last
point, let me ask you this question. Let's assume we --
we have paid counsel in a criminal case and, as a result
of -- of delays by the prosecution, but primarily as a
result of requests for continuance after continuance
after continuance, the -- the case is not tried; it's a
simple case and it's not tried for three years.
Is -- is it open to a reviewing court on
constitutional grounds to say that the State has got an
affirmative obligation, a non-delegable obligation, to
bring cases to trial in a reasonable time? And whether
the reason for the failure in this three-year case is
because counsel just kept trying to -- to shove it off,
or the courts were not diligent in scheduling it for
trial, at some point that non-delegable obligation has
been violated. Is -- is that a -- a possible
constitutionally based position?
MS. KRUGER: I think that Barker makes clear
that defendants can waive their right to a speedy trial
and that indeed defendants will often desire to put off
trial as long as possible. I think that in giving
proper consideration to the Barker Court's explanation
of the nature and purposes of the right, and in
particular focusing on the fact that the only possible
remedy for the speedy trial violation is a remedy that
uniquely advantages defendants and poses substantial
burdens on society, we think ultimately a defendant
can't escape responsibility for continuances that he has
requested through or without the assistance of counsel,
simply by blaming the prosecution for failing to object
or by blaming the courts for failing to go along.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, what if the -- what
if we change the facts slightly. What if the defendant
himself never says anything on the record? The only
thing we've got on the record are repeated requests by
paid counsel for continuances, and then after three
years the defendant fires paid counsel and says: I've
been sitting in jail for three years awaiting trial, and
I shouldn't have to wait that long. The State has
failed in its non-delegable duty. Would your answer
still be the same?
MS. KRUGER: It would still be the same. We
think that fundamentally the principal safeguard against
that kind of unreasonable attorney-caused delay is the
attorney's ethical obligation, which creates a duty in
the attorney to represent his clients with reasonable
diligence and promptness. We think that a rule that
would require --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Lots -- lots of very
effective criminal trial lawyers believe that the first
tactic is delay, delay, delay, delay, delay.
MS. KRUGER: And I think it's precisely for
that reason, because a delay may ultimately be in the
client's interest, that this Court should decline to
fashion a rule that makes the exercise of the remedy,
which is again an extreme remedy that advantages the
defendant alone, exercisable at the option solely of the
defendant.
We think for that reason the defendant
necessarily has to be responsible for any delays that
are caused either by him or by the person who is
appointed to represent him. Again, the ethical duty of
the lawyer is to zealously advocate on behalf of the
defendant's interests, and if the defendant desires to
go to trial as quickly as possible, it's still the
lawyer's duty under the ethical rules to try to
accommodate that request, while at the same time doing
everything he can to prepare an effective defense.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask you this
question about your reliance on pages 27 and 28. If you
describe it as delays by the lawyers themselves, I
understand your comment as being right on the nose. But
I understood part of that to be talking about the
situation in which the defender general's office has not
performed its duty with sufficient promptness.
And would you not agree if there were a
period, say, of seven or eight months in which they just
didn't get around to appointing a lawyer, that that
should be charged against the State?
MS. KRUGER: We would agree, Justice
Stevens. In this case there were a period of a total of
about six months during which the Respondent was not
represented at all, and we think in view of the State's
ultimate responsibility for providing counsel to
indigent defendants, when the State doesn't comply in a
timely fashion with that duty, that delay is properly
attributable to the State.
Although in this case, because the delay was
not the product of a deliberate effort to hamper the
defense, we think that that period should weigh only
lightly against the State; and ultimately, given the
other factors at issue in this case, the absence of any
actual trial prejudice in particular, we think that
ultimately those six months are insufficient to
establish a speedy trial violation.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't the prejudice factor
pretty much established as long as the guy has to stay
in jail during this entire period?
MS. KRUGER: I think that that's certainly
one form of prejudice, but in the Barker balancing -- in
Barker itself, for example, the defendant was
incarcerated for ten months during the pretrial
proceedings, and the Court nevertheless found that there
was no speedy trial violation. We think a similar
principle applies in this case. Although incarceration
is obviously prejudicial to defendants, in this case
there was no prejudice above and beyond that. The
Vermont Supreme Court was clear in finding the absence
of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did he get to offset it
against the time for the pretrial incarceration?
MS. KRUGER: I am not aware that he did, but
this Court made clear in Strunk that getting credit for
time served is not an appropriate remedy for a speedy
trial violation, that the only possible remedy is again
what the Vermont Supreme Court did, erroneously in our
view, which is to dismiss the charges without
possibility of reindictment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What would you think of a
rule that said where most of the delay is attributable
to the defendant, he doesn't -- he doesn't walk? That
seems like a reasonable rule. Whatever the delay is, if
most of it is attributable to the defendant himself, it
is -- it is not a basis for dismissing the indictment?
MS. KRUGER: We think that a defendant -- we
think that that rule would make a great deal of sense.
When a defendant --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That would make it easy to
decide this case because the -- the supreme court's
opinion acknowledges that most of the -- most of the
delay was caused by the defendant.
MS. KRUGER: Well, the Vermont Supreme Court
thought that some of the delay was caused by the
defendant and didn't charge most of that period to the
State to support its finding of the speedy trial
violation.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would you really get by
that rule if there were, say, four years of delay and
two years and one month was attributable to the
defendant and two years to the State?
MS. KRUGER: We would think that a court
evaluating a speedy trial claim in that case would
properly exclude any period that was attributable to the
defendant and focus specifically on that period that was
attributable to the State in determining whether or not
the right was violated.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I'm sure
you have gone through the record and, agreeing with
Justice Stevens that the periods where there wasn't a
contract, the State couldn't provide somebody, do count
against the State, but disagreeing with the Vermont
Supreme Court that when an assigned counsel fails to
move the case forward that is attributable to the State
and not the defendant, what's the difference in time?
MS. KRUGER: The difference in time is -- I
think that the -- as the case comes to the court, the
final 11 months of the pretrial delay is not seriously
in dispute. I think that Respondent has raised a number
of arguments about concurrent causes of delay unrelated
to the performance of his counsel. I think that those
arguments are not properly before the Court because they
fall well outside the scope of the question as to which
this Court granted review and because they were neither
pressed nor passed on below.
I think that leaves the middle 14 months of
the pretrial delay. And I think, given the Vermont
concession, the Vermont Supreme Court focus naturally
rests on the 5.5-month period during which Paul
Donaldson represented Respondent. And we think, with
respect --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes?
MS. KRUGER: We think with respect to that
period, we think that there is no basis for shifting the
responsibility for that delay that Paul Donaldson sought
before going to trial from defendant to the State
because, as Justice Scalia has rightly pointed out, any
contract expiration didn't in and of itself end the
attorney-client relationship, and Paul Donaldson
remained the agent and advocate of his client during
that period.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Nelson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM A. NELSON
ON BEHALF OF the RESPONDENT
MR. NELSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I apologize for jumping the gun.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sorry to delay you.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it's not going to get
you off.
(Laughter.)
MR. NELSON: I would like to respond to --
to Vermont's argument about there being no detailed
record about why these attorneys left when they left.
And I -- I think if they're right, then that augurs a
remand, that suggests a remand. But the reason there
was no record of those departures is because the courts
who presided over those departures never requested an
explanation.
With Paul Donaldson, the matter was a
foregone conclusion. He had no contract. He was going
into another line of work. So be it, he's out of there.
No questioning concerning Mr. Brillon's complaints about
his inaction, his failure to investigate, and so forth;
nothing about are you ready to go to trial, what have
you done, what have you accomplished, what are you
passing on, if anything, to the next lawyer in line,
none of that.
And with Sleigh, the judicial disinterest,
if that's what it was, the judicial silence is even more
resounding. Sleigh did not request permission to
withdraw. He put the court on notice that he was
withdrawing, and this came out of the blue. I don't
think there was any heads-up for the court that this was
going to happen, although Sleigh had expressed some
serious reluctance to take the case and hadn't done
anything. He didn't -- he had a filing deadline of
April 11th, and he was supposed to file motions on that
date, and instead of filing motions he filed this notice
of withdrawal with no response from the court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the -- what
is the distinction in your theory of the case between
delay and failure -- failure to move a case -- what did
-- what did the Vermont case say: Failure to do
anything to move the case forward?
When do we know that that's attributable to
the defendant, and when is it attributable to the State?
MR. NELSON: I think it -- I think it
depends on the facts, and I think in each of the -- in
the case of each of these two attorneys, the facts are
different. With Donaldson, I think the State's
responsibility -- the State's involvement in a
do-nothing attorney, an attorney who was really a
nominal attorney, started from the beginning. It
started from the appointment of -- of counsel who had
been on contract with the State to perform defense
services and was appointed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course, if the
lawyer is a do-nothing lawyer, then I suppose there's an
ineffective-assistance claim?
MR. NELSON: Well, it might mature into an
ineffective-assistance claim, but there couldn't be an
ineffective assistance claim on the record here because,
well, ineffective assistance is -- is something that
occurs at a trial. And it can't be --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's an anomaly, though,
isn't it, that easily might have matured into
ineffective assistance? It wasn't yet, but if Attorneys
4 and 5, Donaldson and Sleigh -- if the case were for
ineffective assistance of counsel, then the defendant
would get a new trial, but here the result is he walks.
MR. NELSON: That's -- that's a consequence
of the speedy-trial clause in Barker and Strunk. A
speedy-trial violation happens, by definition, before
trial. Ineffective assistance happens, by definition
and by this Court's decisions, at trial and can't be
determined until after trial. Unless there is -- is a
speedy trial right and unless it's going to be enforced,
this is the consequence. And that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In the abstract, you
have a lawyer who is a public defender or hired as a
public defender, and he keeps asking for continuances --
continuance, continuance. How do we tell that that's
the State's problem as opposed to what the defendant is
doing through his lawyer?
MR. NELSON: I think at first you would have
to assume that the continuances were sought in good
faith and -- and for purposes of defense preparation.
If the defendant had demanded a speedy trial, as this
defendant had an early date, I think the court, looking
at -- at a continuance motion, would have to look at it
in that light.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what is the trial
judge supposed to do? The defense attorney keeps asking
for continuances for purposes of investigation. I need
more time to investigate. If -- and -- and -- can the
court say: You need to tell me exactly what you are
doing?
MR. NELSON: I think, Justice Alito, that a
court -- when a defendant has demanded a speedy trial,
that a court does have some obligation to -- to
supervise, to monitor, to -- and -- and it happens all
the time in criminal courts. What have you done? Have
you seen your client? What -- how much time do you need
for these motions? When are you going to be ready for
trial? That happens all the time.
And as the -- as time goes by, as the months
pass and -- and become years, I think a court's granting
of continuances has to be more grudging. The courts are
under a duty because they have a duty to assure the
speedy-trial right. Because they are the -- they are
the primary actors in that, the court has a duty to be
--
JUSTICE ALITO: Aren't you giving the
attorney a very perverse incentive there? I mean the
delay may help the ultimate outcome of the case, and if
the -- if the defense attorney can engineer enough
delay, he or she may also produce a speedy-trial
violation.
MR. NELSON: Well, I -- yes, of course,
that's a -- that's a problem, and it's a problem that
was recognized by Barker, and -- and it's a problem that
-- that courts are well equipped to handle. They --
courts are able to and commonly do. In fact, it's their
pretrial business -- main pretrial business to -- to set
that line to make sure lawyers adhere to them and make
sure that the case goes to trial. They -- courts are
well equipped to deal with that.
But I -- I would like to point out that your
hypothetical is not this case. That we are not dealing
here with delays that were caused by continuance
motions. In fact, if you look closely at the record,
trial dates were not pushed back by continuance motions
in this case. Trial dates were pushed back by attorney
inaction and withdrawals.
JUSTICE ALITO: And by your client firing
the first attorney, correct?
MR. NELSON: My client -- that's correct.
My client fired -- fired the first attorney, which --
which the State says was the bad act. But look at the
record of that firing. It wasn't really a firing, of
course. He had no right to fire assigned counsel. But
he had just heard his lawyer telling the judge, I'm
handling 150 odd cases, I cannot be ready for trial,
give me more time. I -- I -- I could be ready maybe in
March or April, but I can't be ready now. And that was
like three or four days before trial.
And I would submit that any client, hearing
his lawyer making those representations to a judge,
would have been very upset and would, in fact, have
wanted another lawyer.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But knowing that the new
lawyer would have to start from scratch, from the
beginning, so it was going to take more time. If he got
a new lawyer, it was going to take more time than if he
stayed with the lawyer who was already acquainted with
the case but just needed a few more weeks.
MR. NELSON: Well, yes, but the lawyer who
had been appointed wasn't going to get those few more
weeks, and as Mr. Brillon said to the court, I would
rather do it right the first time. Being charged with a
life imprisonment offense, one can hardly blame him.
Yes, he had to make a tradeoff, but he had to do it
because his lawyer was not ready.
Now, we argued in the Vermont Supreme Court
that that time could not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me, is that the
proper remedy? I mean, it seems to me he should appeal
to the judge and say, look, this lawyer -- is -- is that
the way you solve the problem of -- of an attorney who
is not ready, like fire him so you can get another
attorney? That seems to me very strange.
MR. NELSON: Counsel. Counsel moved for --
moved for a continuance on February 22nd.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. NELSON: And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And from what you told me
it should have been given, right?
MR. NELSON: Pardon me?
JUSTICE SCALIA: From what you tell me, it
should have been given if indeed he was unable to
prepare adequately for the trial?
MR. NELSON: I believe so. The judge took a
different view. It was fully argued. The judge was the
only one who had -- the judge was the decider on that
one, and she said no. You don't get it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, wasn't there a
concern about this defendant trying avoid a particular
judge? That's why he wanted the continuance?
MR. NELSON: The -- the State made that
allegation, and it made that claim here. No court has
found it. The Vermont Supreme Court found the opposite.
The Vermont Supreme Court held that Brillon fired or
asked for the dismissal of his first lawyer because he
was not prepared to go to trial, which seems like an
ample, sufficient and supported reason for the action he
took. That explains the case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not only did the Vermont
Supreme Court make that finding, it does not hear the
witnesses, it -- it has a record before it. I can
understand if you're talking about a finding made by the
court of first instance, but the Vermont Supreme Court
is reviewing a record, it's not making findings.
MR. NELSON: That's -- that's true, Justice
Ginsburg. The trial court, however, also didn't make
that finding, although it was asked to. And, in fact, I
think any such finding would be entirely speculative.
It would require the court, the fact finder,
to interpolate various happenings that are not of
record, and that we say never happened. It would
require us to assume that Brillon told Ammons, I want
you to move for a continuance on whatever grounds you
can think of, but the real reason is to get rid of the
judge. And that Ammons would do that for his client,
and, you know, for the ostensible reason that he
presented to the court, namely, he was overloaded and
not prepared to go to trial, his secret reason was to
get rid of the judge. And I think the record doesn't
warrant that kind of inference, especially since it's
been presented to and not accepted by the State courts.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is not an
unusual reason for criminal defense lawyers in the
private sector to ask for a continuance. It's quite
common for the lawyers to go before the judge and say,
look, I've got this other case going to trial next week,
I've got this and this, can I get more time, and judges
give them the first two but not the third. And why in a
case simply where you're dealing with a public defender
do you presume the opposite and blame the State for
what's a quite common practice in the private part?
MR. NELSON: Mr. Chief Justice, I -- I'm
only saying that this -- on this record, the conclusion
that that was what was happening, which would be
significant if the court were then to say, and
therefore, it was done by the defendant who wanted delay
despite what he said, and therefore, this is time
considered waived under Barker. There is no basis for
that finding.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: My point is, I
guess, how do we tell? I mean, if this is normal -- I
think it is normal, I think it's quite unusual for a
defense lawyer to be prepared to go to trial the first
time the trial date is set. If it is normal, how do we
tell?
MR. NELSON: Well, actually, this wasn't the
first -- the first request for a continuance, Chief.
Ammons had moved for a continuance before, and it had
been denied.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah, but -- again,
I assume that's -- there are probably cases in the
private bar where that's true as well.
MR. NELSON: How does one know? I think
one -- I think what makes a major difference here is
that Brillon had demanded a speedy trial. He had done
so long before Ammons' motion for a continuance. He had
done -- he did so almost every chance he got at almost
every court hearing.
You could, and I think the State does,
assume that this was all tomfoolery and an attempt to
manipulate the court, but there is nothing in the record
to suggest that. That was the debate between the
majority and the dissent at the State court. The
majority won. As in Doggett, the -- the State is now
coming back and trying to refight here an essentially
factual issue which it lost in -- in the courts below.
JUSTICE BREYER: What about Donaldson and
Moore, those two periods? Those two periods, the
Donaldson period and the Moore period, seem, as far as I
can tell, which isn't that far, they seem to be periods
when the State -- when the court below was saying that
all that happened here was that the lawyers who were
appointed, did a very bad job.
You can't say they weren't appointed. It
isn't that he didn't have counsel. He had counsel, and
they just didn't do very much.
Now, why should that be accounted against
the stayer? Is Moore special? Was there really a
problem of prosecutorial behavior? Is Donaldson the
same as Sleigh? I don't know.
MR. NELSON: Let me start --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is Donaldson a case where
they -- is equivalent to having no lawyer? I don't know
how to deal with it.
MR. NELSON: Let me start with Donaldson,
and I think in answer to your question, I don't think
Donaldson is substantially different from Sleigh. I
won't go over the circumstances of Donaldson's
appointment, but once he was appointed, he began
conversations with the defender general about getting
off the case. And I think the sense -- and -- and a
significant fact about those conversations is that the
defender general told Donaldson he was going to be
replaced.
We don't know exactly when that happened,
but he told him he was going to be replaced with someone
who was more competent, more qualified to deal with a
life imprisonment case. So this is not information
which will light a fire under a lawyer to prepare a
case, that he knows he's not going to try.
Donaldson then asks for time. It's the only
request he ever made of the court. The court gave him
time and set filing deadlines, and he missed them.
Missing those deadlines should have been a red flag to
the court in a case that was already over a year old.
The court let those deadlines pass without a word.
The court also said, we're going to try this
case in October. Get ready for trial in October.
Everything should be filed by September 23rd. And for a
reason, which the record has no explanation for, the
October trial never happened. Donaldson was still on
the case, his name was still on the case, and the
October trial date passed without a murmur. It was not
until late November that Donaldson came to the court and
explained the situation.
Now the court -- I think the defender
general failed in his responsibility with regard to
Donaldson. That's State involvement. The court failed
in not noticing the -- the missed deadlines and in
allowing the trial date to pass without a trial; and I
think the Court also failed in its duty in allowing
Donaldson off the case, which rendered any catch-up time
that he had to do pointless, without any inquiry at all.
The court, it's clear from the record, deferred entirely
to the defender general, and so I think the Vermont
court on that record thought that there was enough State
involvement here to charge -- to find the State
responsible and to weigh some of that responsibility
against the State. The court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What does your --
your argument do to the fundamental and I think quite
vital principle in Polk County that public defenders
work for their clients; they don't work for the State?
MR. NELSON: It does nothing to Polk County,
and we acknowledge that -- that Paul Donaldson's
inaction by itself, if it had nothing to do with the
State, if the State did not involve itself or condone --
if the State had no responsibility with regard to that
time, the State would have no responsibility under
Barker. That's perfectly clear, and I don't think the
Vermont Supreme Court's opinion, fairly read, fairly
read says anything other than that. The Vermont --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I guess fairly
read, it does say the failure of several assigned
counsel to do anything to move the case forward is
attributable to the State, because they didn't do
anything, I guess is the touchstone.
MR. NELSON: Well, I think I have two
responses to that. One is that in the context of the
rest of the opinion, what the court was talking about
was a breakdown of the system, and the focus was on two
actors, both State actors, the assigning agency, the
defender general, and the court and I don't think
there's any dispute that both of those are indeed State
actions, and that delays which can be traced to them,
which they have a hand in, can be weighed against panned
the State under Barker.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it doesn't say that; it
really does say most of the delay was caused by the
inability or unwillingness of assigned counsel, not of
the -- of the institution that appoints them,
unwillingness or inability of assigned counsel to move
the case forward. That looks to me like --
MR. NELSON: I think -- elsewhere in the
opinion, Justice Scalia, I think the court is clear that
-- that they were faulting the defender general, and to
a lesser extent the court. I think we are putting more
stress on the court's nonfeasance than the Vermont
Supreme Court did, but in fact, the time adds up to the
same. The time, we're talking 14 months from
Donaldson's assignment until Moore's assignment in
August.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you agree -- just
following up --
MR. NELSON: Okay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Just
following up on your latest answer, do you agree that it
has to be a systemic problem? I mean, you gave us that
-- the situation where the lawyer says I've got 150
cases, I need a -- need a continuance.
What if there's none of that? They've got,
you know, 500 public defenders, and the -- but the guy
still delays. He's responsible for not doing anything
to move the case forward.
MR. NELSON: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it still
attributable to the State?
MR. NELSON: I don't think -- I don't think
the result depends on there being a systemic problem. I
think in this case there was a systemic problem, and the
Court knows about that from the findings of the indigent
defense task force, which --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the Chief Justice's
question, I'm interested in it as well, are there
instances in which a State-appointed counsel can delay
and have that not attributed to the State? Is it always
attributed to the State --
MR. NELSON: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just because he's State --
MR. NELSON: Absolutely there can be
situations like that, where there is no --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: There is a delay, but it's
not attributable to the State.
MR. NELSON: It's not attributable to the
State, it's attributable to counsel. And just the same
as -- just the same as for private counsel. We're not
proposing a two-tiered system there. We're --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, when is that?
The -- you have the same situation, the defense counsel
appointed by the State does nothing to move the case
forward, that's as I understand it the Vermont Supreme
Court touchstone. When is that attributable to the
State and when is it not?
MR. NELSON: It would not be attributable to
the State if the assigning agency was -- had no fault,
had no supervising duty that it failed to perform, that
the lawyer was essentially on his own or her own; and it
would also assume, I think, if the delay went on long
enough, that there was no fault in the court in failing
to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I --
MR. NELSON: -- to notice that nothing was
happening.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It does sound to me,
then, that you're saying there has to be some systemic
problem, that the rule that I understand the Vermont
Supreme Court to have adopted, that when assigned
counsel does nothing to move the case forward, that
that's attributable to the State, you would disagree
with? You would say no, there has to be a systemic
problem, not the -- not just the individual lawyer, but
they're not assigning enough defenders, they're not
supervising them, whatever.
MR. NELSON: Maybe I'm not using the word
systemic in the same sense you are. All I would say is
say is it doesn't have to happen to a lot of people, it
could happen to just one person, but it would only
happen to that one person if a public, State agency was
responsible for the delay.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if you have a situation
in which the -- an attorney is appointed, the defendant
threatens that attorney, the attorney withdraws. A
second attorney is appointed, the client threatens that
attorney, the attorney withdraws, and then thereafter a
new attorney is pointed, and there is great delay.
Maybe more -- two or three attorneys are appointed.
There's great delay. Is -- does the -- does the chain
of events that started all this get taken into account
or do you just start counting the time from the
appointment of the last attorney who wasn't threatened?
MR. NELSON: I think you can't ignore what
happened before, but you can -- but -- but if what
you're saying or suggesting is that earlier bad actions
result in a forfeiture of speedy trial rights, I would
disagree. The way you -- the way it matters is that by
firing, threatening, unjustifiably getting rid of a --
of a lawyer, you require the next lawyer to spend some
time getting up to speed on the case. And that time --
JUSTICE ALITO: What if a small -- I don't
know how many lawyers are available for appointment in
Bennington. What if it's a small jurisdiction where
there aren't that many who are available to be
appointed? And so you fire the public defender, you
threaten the first appointed counsel, and pretty soon
you don't have very many left, or the ones that you have
left are busy with other cases and delay results.
MR. NELSON: But that's not the case here,
and I think my answer to your question is that what
makes this a State response -- failure of responsibility
is that the State had the ability to do something about
it. If the State's hands are tied, if they run out of
legal talent, if there's no other way to get counsel on
the case than by a broken-down contract system, which
was not the case --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the point that
Ms. Rainville made? And she talked about this balancing
that comes out of Barker, and she said you have to weigh
against the defendant very heavily, the episodes with
lawyer number one and number three, because that was
really bad stuff. The State is perhaps responsible for
some of the other delays, but she called those "neutral"
in the weighing process. Don't those two episodes,
counsel number one was fired, counsel number three, who
says his life was threatened by the defendant, don't
those have to count very heavily against the defendant?
MR. NELSON: Justice Ginsburg, I don't think
that Barker works that way. I think what Barker says is
that time which is attributable to the defendant gets
subtracted from the total delay; that that's not
considered. That the rest of the time is a period which
the State has to account for; and there are -- there
will be segments of that time, segments of that delay
which are nobody's fault, and those delays would in fact
be truly neutral in the sense of they would have no
weight against the State; and there are others that
would count more or less heavily against the State.
So I think the effect of what went on with
Jerry Altieri, which I think was not much more than two
months of the total time that he was on board, I think
the effect of that is to subtract that period, and then
any catch-up period that his firing or his dismissal
required, subtract that period as well from the total,
and weigh the rest more or less heavily or perhaps not
at all against the State.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the rest, I
couldn't find in his final counsel's representation -- I
didn't see anything in her representation that would
suggest any lack of diligence on her part or any reason
to count that in the speedy trial calculus. That runs
from August 2003 to June 2004.
MR. NELSON: To June 2004. That's correct.
I -- I think that the opinion is not clear as to how
much responsibility the Vermont court attributed to the
State for that period. Vermont says they charged every
second of the -- of that time to the State, and it's
quite clear from the opinion that they didn't. They
said that most of the remaining two years, as of
Donaldson's appointment in June of '02, was attributable
to the State. It's not clear how much of that time or
if they actually counted it. I think that any precise
calculation of that time period is impossible.
We argue, and the record supports, that much
of that time had to do with Ms. Moore getting files
together, not only from predecessor counsel but from the
State, and that the State delayed for many months in
providing an updated witness list with current
addresses. She needed that to interview the witnesses.
The case was old, and she needed the State's help there,
with other discovery material which the record shows --
it's not in the joint appendix, but it is in the printed
case, which was essentially Vermont Supreme Court's
equivalent of an appendix. These materials were at
issue for Moore. She needed them. The prosecutor was
dilatory in providing them. And I think that that's a
kind of vanilla reason to attribute some of that time to
the State.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Nelson --
MR. NELSON: The court was also --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- what is your judgment
on how much time all together was attributable to the
State?
MR. NELSON: I think 14 -- I think the
Vermont court was clear about the 14 months from
Donaldson through Moore, including the six months of no
counsel. It adds up to 14 months. And then the rest of
the time I don't think you can put a number on.
Maybe it's not time that we're trying to add
up, but responsibility. And what the -- what the State
court was saying was when a case is as old as this one
was when Moore took it over, the court should be very
vigilant and grudging in its grants of continuances, and
the case could have been tried sooner than in eight
months.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your 14 months,
just so I understand, that includes the August 2003
through June 2004, when Moore was representing him?
MR. NELSON: No. The 14 months goes from
Donaldson on June 11th, 2002, through Moore's
appointment in August 2003.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Nelson.
Ms. Rainville, you have a minute remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTINA RAINVILLE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. RAINVILLE: Very quickly then, Justice
Ginsburg, the answer to your question, he did receive
credit for his time served.
The important distinction that the questions
raised show, what's so fundamentally wrong about this
case, is the distinction between Strickland. There you
ask the lawyers what they did. They're given deference.
They're given the right to defend themselves. And if
you prove that it would have had an effect on the
outcome of the case, the defendant gets a new trial.
Here the lawyers are never asked, no presumption is
given, and the defendant is allowed to walk free for the
rest of his life. It's fundamentally wrong.
Letting a defendant walk free from a crime
is an extraordinary remedy that should only be given in
an extraordinary case, and that case is not this one.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:17 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
52:10 22:21 24:1 APPEARAN... arraignment 29:14 30:25
20:21 appendix 8:5 arrangement attorney's 23:15
44:24 28:24 application 3:23 aside 11:7 23:14
45:14 46:12 applying 10:22 32:19 15:17,20,21
agree 14:11,15 16:16,17,23 assign 16:1 26:15,18 27:9
44:1 6:7 7:13,15,16 15:16,19 20:7 30:21,22 42:20
agreeing 18:6 21:19 24:7 46:1 48:12 49:17
agrees 13:13 39:22,23 40:13 45:14 46:6 attribute 9:3
34:11 46:14 24:23 17:5 22:24 16:15 44:20,21
allegation 36:16 31:5 40:13 31:25 attribution
18:24 allowed 52:1 49:17 51:8 Association 5:20 augurs 29:15
43:1,1 allowing 41:19 appoints 16:20 assume 3:14,17 August 9:22
13:2 approved 8:6 38:25 39:9 available 47:9
38:22 39:5 argue 9:6 49:21 attorney 1:16 a.m 1:13 3:2
answer 23:10 2:2,10 3:4,6,15 31:3,3,4 32:19 17:15 34:8,9
48:4 9:25 10:4 41:7,11,11,21 51:3,10 52:7 concede 6:25
47:25 40:6 46:2 47:7,16 1:15 2:3,11 3:6 5:7,9
22:13,17 Brillon 1:6 3:4 51:20,24 52:5 16:21 40:12 concerning
31:23 9:7,12,14,17 52:5,8,9 claim 16:13 29:23
38:12 9:17 35:10 cases 7:5,6 22:6 27:12 31:10,12 concession 5:14
43:6 36:18 37:11 34:19 38:25 31:13 36:16 6:1,12 28:12
39:4 44:4 47:15 classes 17:20 concessions 19:6
14:25 29:23 48:25 clause 31:23 29:21 38:7
22:12 bring 22:6 caused 11:10 clear 5:22 20:2 concurrent 28:4
28:18 47:22 24:6 27:1,3 41:23 42:14 conduct 12:19
burdens 22:22 34:6 43:8 43:14 49:11,15 13:9 17:3
33:25 certain 14:10 clearly 9:14 consequence
9:5 11:2 12:25 28:24 33:4 consideration
2:4,6,9,12 C 2:1 3:1 chain 46:21 37:14 46:17 considered
19:21 24:8 calculating 12:6 chance 39:6 clients 23:16 38:12 48:14
51:14 calculation change 6:13 42:7 considering
23:20 called 48:5 charge 27:4 42:1 colloquy 9:11 17:16
case 3:4,11,18 chargeable 3:19 comes 8:7 20:10 constitutional
47:10 7:8 8:22 9:16 charged 14:3 comfort 21:13 22:4
16:6,7 18:8,14 26:12 common 10:16 continuance
20:15 21:23 6:11,16,24 7:4 38:5 22:1 32:8,8,16
35:12 25:12,25 26:1 19:16,19,24 33:24 36:14 37:12,23
26:24 27:12,23 20:6 27:17 competent 38:21,22 39:5
30:18,19,20,25 30:16 31:8 complain 21:9 continuances
38:3 40:6,15 43:25 44:10,17 15:14 contract 6:14
31:6 19:8,25 20:3 19:22 28:20 30:22 46:13,19,21
20:10,16 22:3 current 49:25 31:20 32:9,14 47:15 48:13,16
28:6,8,12 29:6 date 30:14 32:15 51:24 52:1,3 18:23 20:13
16:22 32:15,22,25 dates 34:8,9 18:21 21:8 34:6 43:4 44:7
49:10 33:1,12 35:10 day 7:14,14,15 22:14,15,21 48:5,17
36:18,24 37:2 15:2 defendant's demanded
11:9,14 37:2,5,8,16 days 13:20 20:7 24:9 32:14,25 39:4
17:6 18:1 38:9 39:7,10 34:22 defender 3:14 denied 38:23
19:16 39:12,20 41:1 day-to-day 3:16 4:2 6:19 Department
21:19,19 41:1,4,5,6,13 20:22 7:9,12,20,23 1:19
22:8,24 41:15,17,20,23 deadline 30:12 8:5,10 10:14 departures
25:4 41:25 42:3,24 deadlines 41:2,3 14:1 17:13 29:17,18
28:5 43:2,14,16,18 41:5,18 24:19 32:6,7 depends 30:24
31:5,20 44:15 45:11,18 deal 26:21 34:3 38:3 40:14,17 44:13
35:23,23 46:1 49:12 40:8,21 41:15,24 43:2 deprive 21:3
42:19 50:12,17,23,24 dealing 34:5 43:15 47:12 Deputy 1:15
44:19 courts 5:19 38:3 defenders 3:17 describe 24:16
46:2 17:23 18:22 debate 39:11 5:21 42:6 44:6 desire 22:15
48:7 20:25 22:9 debating 15:19 46:6 desires 24:9
49:23 23:1 29:17 decide 12:1 defense 14:17 despite 9:13
52:7 33:3,9,23,24 14:19,20,23,24 21:5 24:13 18:9 38:11
49:5 39:15 17:15 18:14 32:13,19 33:17 details 10:21,24
49:8 11:4 20:2 decided 20:3 44:16 45:8 15:14
42:15 43:17 decisions 20:22 definition 31:24 determining
create 20:16 decline 20:16 delay 6:4,9 7:1 dicta 4:24 5:4
34:17 creates 3:20 defend 51:22 12:6,11 13:1 27:25 39:3
4:5,16 23:15 7:9 12:7,11 21:11,13 23:14 4:20 6:21 12:2
5:5,6,8,16 creating 17:20 15:1,21 17:21 23:21,21,21,21 17:20 31:1
6:2 8:16 credit 26:8 17:23 18:3 23:21,23 25:6 36:9 40:11
9:1,9,10 51:17 20:13 21:4 25:8 26:15,17 differently 4:17
10:15,21 crime 52:3 22:22 23:3,7 27:1,3,8 28:2,4 17:24 18:21
12:1 criminal 3:21 24:2,3,4,9 28:11,19 29:8 difficult 8:21
14:15 21:23 23:20 25:21 26:16,18 30:18 33:16,18 20:25 21:2
16:8 33:3 37:22 26:20,22 27:1 38:10 43:8 difficulty 7:23
curiae 1:21 2:7 27:4,10,14,24 44:19 45:1,17 dilatory 50:8
31:9 especially 37:19 37:6,8 40:16 finally 21:17
22:9 duty 8:20 10:11 2:3,5,8,11 factor 4:24 5:2 finder 37:8
23:15 24:7,11 45:16 50:5 25:16 26:3 27:5
33:10,10,12 established facts 5:6 12:21 38:13
48:25 early 32:15 46:22 41:16,17,20 12:15,24 15:1
effect 4:8 10:21 exactly 12:23,24 23:1 45:18 48:7
43:3 21:5 23:20 7:9 25:21 16:15,22 20:7 34:16,16 47:5
30:17 eight 24:22 51:1 exclude 27:13 42:18 47:18 12:15,24,25
eight-month excuse 19:18 fairly 42:15,15 13:12 15:1
44:7 12:8 expired 8:16 39:18,19 37:2 38:2,17
9:8,15,16 20:25 explains 36:22 25:6 five 7:13,19
10:2 entire 25:18 explanation fault 9:1 45:14 flag 41:3
13:18,19 entirely 37:7 22:17 29:19 45:18 48:17 focus 27:14
16:13,13 41:23 41:9 faulting 43:15 28:12 42:25
17:9 entirety 20:4 expressed 30:10 favor 13:10 focusing 22:19
episodes 48:2,6 extent 8:9 43:16 February 35:24 following 11:13
31:1,19 equipped 33:23 extraordinary federal 17:14 43:23 44:1
40:3 34:3 7:24 8:12 52:4 fight 11:17,17 force 44:16
equivalent 52:5 file 30:13 forced 12:17
41:10,13 13:24 40:7 extreme 24:1 filed 15:4 30:14 foregone 29:21
50:18 50:6 extremely 17:1 41:8 forfeiture 47:3
erroneously files 49:22 form 25:20
42:9 error 21:3 fact 4:6 9:9 14:9 41:2 forward 15:17
49:17 errors 14:17,18 14:20,25 22:19 final 14:6 20:5 15:20 27:23
42:19 given 7:21 13:9 hamper 25:9 implied 5:25 inquiry 41:22
44:8 25:11 28:11 hand 43:5 important 5:22 instance 16:9
46:2 36:3,6 51:21 handle 7:6 33:23 12:5 16:5 17:2 37:2
giving 13:25 hands 47:20 impossible institution 43:10
11:6,8 go 10:4,9 11:20 15:22 21:14 imprisonment 25:14
20:15 12:9 13:3,17 30:10 46:10,11 35:12 40:22 interest 23:24
34:22 14:2 17:15 46:12 inability 43:9,11 interested 44:18
29:25 36:20 7:12 19:12 21:1 29:24 interpolate 37:9
42:5 34:2 51:6 happening 38:8 25:22 investigation
51:19 5:18 10:19 happenings 37:9 25:25 26:6 involve 12:6
15:8 18:12 happens 8:3 incentive 21:13 42:11
30:10 32:3 33:6 incentives 21:8 12:5
40:17,20 heads-up 30:9 includes 51:4 31:2 41:17
granted 28:8 hearing 17:5 inconsistent 10:23 25:12
6:1,19 grants 50:25 heavily 5:1 48:2 incredibly 7:13 issues 10:24
great 17:11 48:9,20 49:2 8:10,11 18:14
15:24 26:21 46:19,21 held 4:7,10 14:8 indictment
20:12,17 ground 10:16,18 21:11 36:18 26:19 J
41:16 grounds 22:4 help 33:16 50:2 indigent 17:21 jail 23:8 25:18
43:2,15 37:12 henceforth 17:23,24 18:4 January 1:9
40:14 12:16 14:21 hold 4:9 13:23 31:13,14,18,20 34:18,24 35:19
49:22 38:15 42:17,21 17:13 31:25 36:8,9,10,14
31:16 guilt 18:9 51:9 31:10,12 judges 38:1
36:12,23 gun 29:7 hope 18:12 inevitable 15:9 judgment 50:13
47:24 guy 13:25 25:17 hypothetical inference 37:19 judicial 30:4,5
49:4 44:6 34:5 information jumping 29:7
40:22 June 8:4 9:22
38:2 hairy 18:13 ignore 46:25 initially 15:5 51:5,7
know 4:12 12:14 47:9 51:21,25 main 33:25 50:19 51:2,3,6
5:3,7 37:15 39:2 20:21 21:11 majority 39:12 14:6 39:17,18
40:4,7,19 44:6 24:11 39:13 40:2 49:22
7:4 47:9 leaves 28:10 making 34:24 50:7,18,24
knowing 21:14 left 13:19 16:17 37:3 51:5
10:4,6 35:2 16:20 29:14,14 manipulate Moore's 43:20
12:3,4 knows 40:24 47:14,15 39:10 51:7
13:4 44:15 legal 47:21 March 34:21 motion 9:10
Kruger 1:18 2:5 legislature 7:25 material 50:3 32:16 39:5
16:5,6 19:17,19,20,24 8:1,6,7 materials 50:6 motions 30:13
18:10,18 22:13 23:12,22 length 8:12 matter 1:11 3:12 30:14 33:5
24:25 25:19 LEONDRA 8:2,7 9:1 11:5 34:7,8
21:21 26:7,20 27:2 1:18 2:5 19:20 13:1 16:1 move 15:17,20
24:14 27:11,25 28:17 lesser 43:16 17:14 18:24 20:8,15 27:23
25:16 letter 8:4 9:9 29:20 52:10 30:18,20 37:12
L Letting 52:3 42:19 43:11
lack 49:7 Let's 21:22 mature 31:11 44:8 45:9 46:2
29:1 late 41:13 life 35:12 40:22 matured 31:17 moved 35:23,24
30:16 latest 44:1 48:8 52:2 mean 6:12,16 38:22
32:5 Laughter 10:5 light 6:9 32:17 19:2 33:15 moving 10:15
33:14 29:11 40:23 35:18 38:15 murmur 41:12
35:2,17 law 3:12 5:22 lightly 14:5 44:2
36:2,5 11:5 18:14,24 25:11 N
37:4 lawyer 7:5,6,10 line 29:22 30:2 mentioned N 2:1,1 3:1
38:6,14 7:23 8:3,13 9:8 34:1 18:15 name 41:11
39:16 9:11,18 10:3 lines 17:11 merely 17:24 named 4:2,2
42:4,17 12:8,8,9,15,16 list 10:19,20,20 MICHAEL 1:6 National 5:20
12:20,25 14:14 49:25 middle 28:10 naturally 28:12
15:1,5,5,7,8,10 literally 8:7 Middlebury nature 22:18
15:11 20:14,20 little 3:17 16:25 1:22 necessarily 5:25
47:8,24 21:4,9,10 24:8 20:14 midst 21:2 15:13 24:5
49:4 24:23 30:2 long 13:1 21:9 minus 11:8,9 need 21:5 32:20
51:3 31:9,9 32:6,10 22:16 23:9 minute 51:12 32:22 33:4
52:7 34:18,24 35:1 25:17 39:5 misfeasance 9:2 44:4,4
36:19 look 6:4 10:25 missed 41:2,18 50:1,2,7
45:1 lawyers 7:22 looks 14:7 43:12 6:6,7 11:6,8 29:12 30:23
23:14 24:16 34:1 lots 23:19,19 43:19 48:23 36:1,4,8,15
38:6,20 O 37:16 person 16:20 21:5 24:13
40:5,9 O 2:1 3:1 24:6 46:11,12 36:7 40:23
43:13 P perverse 33:15 prepared 36:20
44:9,12 obligation 22:5 P 3:1 Petitioner 1:4 37:17 38:17
45:3 22:5,10 23:15 PAGE 2:2 1:17,21 2:4,7 presentation
46:8 33:1 pages 20:1 24:15 2:12 3:7 19:23 18:11
47:16 obtained 7:25 paid 21:23 23:6 51:14 presented 37:16
49:10 obviously 26:1 23:7 plate 8:1,8 37:20
occurred 12:13 panned 43:5 please 3:9 19:25 presided 29:18
13:1 Pardon 36:4 29:6 pressed 28:9
9:6 12:12 October 41:7,7 38:5 49:7 point 16:5,6,25 presumption
41:10,12 particular 9:20 17:8 19:2 17:3 51:25
14:1 offense 35:12 15:13 22:19 22:10 34:4 21:2 25:22
29:18 office 13:20 25:13 36:13 38:14 47:24 26:6 28:2,11
41:10 16:17,21 24:19 parties 10:24 pointed 28:21 33:25,25
offset 26:5 pass 33:8 41:5 46:19 pretty 12:23
okay 15:9 18:15 passed 28:9 points 15:15 primarily 21:24
15:8 18:6 old 41:4 50:2,23 passing 30:2 Polk 18:25 42:6 33:12
35:2,5 once 40:13 Paul 28:13,19 42:8 principal 23:13
51:24 ones 47:14 28:23 29:20 poses 22:21 principle 10:23
opinion 15:15 perform 31:6 possibility 26:13 printed 50:4
23:10 42:15,24 43:14 performance 21:15 22:11,16 38:5 39:1 45:5
opportunities performed 26:10 problem 6:13
oppose 18:1 period 4:1,22 14:17 33:22 35:20
opposite 36:17 9:22 11:12,18 38:5 44:14 45:25
19:20 29:3 28:25 39:18,18 49:23 proceedings
ought 19:11 periods 12:6,10 25:20 26:2 process 18:2,6
33:16 51:24 39:17,17,19 preparation produce 33:18
outside 28:7 permission 30:6 32:13 product 25:9
21:22 24:15 23:23 24:4 22:20 23:25 42:13 47:18
24:20 44:18 47:17 37:13,15,17,22 35:18 52:4 responsible
questioning reasonable 17:4 rendered 41:21 24:5 42:2 44:7
28:6 questions 51:18 26:17 replaced 40:18 rest 11:7 19:14
12:14 24:10 10:20 18:13 replacement 49:2,4 50:19
38:5,16 42:5 19:15 51:13 23:16 24:7 result 21:23,25
14:12,17 recognized 8:20 10:12 47:3
21:24 R 33:22 49:5,6 results 47:15
R 1:18 2:5 3:1 record 3:13 6:4 representations retained 21:19
2:3,11 3:5,6,8 16:3 23:4,5 25:3 28:14 reviewing 10:20
25:4 11:2,24 12:18 39:10 41:9,23 41:1 right 3:19 6:14
50:8 13:3,6,14 41:25 49:21 requested 22:24 9:23,25 12:3
5:21 16:4,24 17:10 records 14:10 requests 21:25 14:1 17:14
14:1 17:18 18:10,17 red 41:3 23:5 22:14,18 24:17
32:6,7 18:19 19:5 referring 16:12 require 3:13 27:16 29:15
42:6 44:6 47:25 51:12,13 refight 39:14 23:18 37:8,11 32:3 33:11
47:12 51:15 refused 8:16 47:6 34:17 35:11,25
51:19 41:16 42:12 reserve 19:14 rightly 28:21
32:13,20 read 14:22 26:13 respect 4:14 47:3
34:19,20,21 relief 13:2 1:23 2:9 25:2 15:12 19:16,19
12:23 reason 13:24 29:16 28:19 31:2 45:7,20,23
20:10 14:7 21:6 22:7 remedy 22:20 41:16 42:2,12 51:3,10 52:7
48:18 society 22:22 15:21,22 16:2 Strunk 26:8
23:17,25 September 41:8 solely 19:11 24:2 16:20,22 18:22 31:23
series 10:24 20:7 Solicitor 1:18 19:13 20:9 stuff 48:4
45:25 serious 11:17 solve 35:20 22:4 23:9 submit 34:23
45:24 shifting 28:18 SOUTER 3:22 42:11,11,12,13 49:1
50:23 shove 22:8 5:3,7,11,13,24 42:20 43:1,3,6 subtracted
23:4,7 shows 7:19 50:3 12:3 21:21 45:2,4,9,12,14 sufficient 24:20
42:16 significant 38:9 23:2,19 46:3,12 47:18 36:21
48:8,11 40:16 special 40:2 47:19 48:4,15 suggest 39:11
silence 30:5 specifically 48:19,20 49:3 49:7
18:10,18 simple 22:2 speculative 37:7 49:24 50:10,15 suggests 29:16
26:14,23 simply 10:11,14 speed 47:7 50:22 suits 21:9
29:9 12:6 22:25 speedy 3:19 statement 14:20 supervise 33:2
36:2 38:3 17:14,21 18:8 14:21 18:11 supervising
43:7,14 single 20:4 19:9 22:14,20 States 1:1,12,20 45:15 46:7
22:9 situation 7:8 27:5,12 32:3 State's 1:15 9:1 supported 36:21
14:14 46:14 31:23,24 33:11 50:2 suppose 6:24
18:17,23 situations 6:25 33:18 State-appointed 8:16 15:12
46:17 20:14 44:25 spend 47:6 44:19 31:9
six 15:1 25:2,14 standard 19:8 stay 8:22 9:16 supposed 14:19
sixth 7:21,23 40:5,9 46:23 stayed 35:6 30:13 32:19
7:19 9:19 11:7 State 3:19,24 25:1,16 27:7 11:4,21 13:12
31:19 40:4,11 7:22 8:9 9:3,5 stress 43:17 17:15 20:2,3
36:17,18 think 5:15,17 48:3,7 25:13,15,24 undermine
37:2 10:16 11:3 three-year 6:9 26:10 27:5,12 20:21
43:18 13:7 14:24 22:7 28:20 29:25 underneath
46:1 16:4 20:11,16 tied 47:20 31:15,21,25 17:10
20:19,24 21:17 time 3:18 4:1 32:1,2,3,14,18 understand 4:1
34:1,2 23:13,17,22 7:21 11:9 15:7 34:2,8,9,19,22 13:12 24:17
20:21 25:13,19,24 21:4 22:6 37:17,25 38:17 51:4
42:25 26:14,20,21 24:12 26:6,9 38:18 39:4 understood 6:8
47:22 27:11 28:1,3,5 27:24,25 32:21 41:7,10,12,19 24:18
28:18 29:15 34:20 35:4,5 49:8 51:24 8:20
46:4,9 30:9,23,23,24 35:11,16 38:1 tried 22:1,2 51:1 unfair 10:25
32:11,15 38:11,18 40:25 trigger 11:15 uniquely 22:21
6:6,7 11:6 40:10,15 41:15 49:14,18,20,22 try 24:11 40:24 unjustifiably
30:11 41:20,24 42:5 50:9,14,20,21 41:6 47:5
42:14,22 43:2 51:17 trying 22:8 unpleasant 18:2
42:24 48:21,22,23 37:11 40:17,20 two 6:7 8:15 unrelated 28:4
49:11,19 50:8 tomfoolery 39:9 11:6 12:24 unsupported
38:15,19 19:5 21:6 38:2 touchstone 38:2 39:17,17 unwillingness
thought 6:8 42:21 45:11 42:22,25 46:20 43:9,11
12:17 15:7 treatments U V
51:9,10 threatens 46:16 12:15 13:7 23:23 25:11,14 value 11:20
46:17 15:2 17:14,22 unable 36:6 vanilla 50:9
22:2 23:6,8 22:10,14,16,20 unconstitutio... 3:11 4:5,15,16
10:21 1:19 17:1 7:17,18 8:15 14 9:22 28:10
13:12 wasn't 5:7 13:25 witness 49:25 43:19 50:16,17
15:15,25 27:19 31:18 witnesses 36:25 50:19 51:3,6
17:7,12 34:16 35:9 50:1 150 34:19 44:3
20:2 36:12 38:20 won 14:14 15:3 19 2:7
26:3,11 46:24 39:13
28:11 way 4:17 10:25 word 41:5 46:8 2
30:19 12:24 15:23 words 10:22 20th 8:4
36:17,18 17:12 35:20 work 15:22 2002 51:7
37:2 47:4,4,21 29:22 42:7,7 2003 9:22 49:9
42:15,16 48:11 working 15:6 51:4,8
45:10,25 week 37:25 works 48:11
9:22 49:9
50:5
35:10 wouldn't 13:3 2009 1:9
29:13 25:10 42:2 wrong 16:1 23rd 41:8
weighing 48:6 X 29 2:9
15:10 45:17 Y 3 2:4
4
22:20 weren't 39:23
26:10 We'll 19:17
13:12,17 31:19
31:24 we're 13:15
16:19 41:6 13:18 41:4
27:8,9 5.5-month 28:13
51 2:12
38:12 zealously 24:8
12:17 30:7 08-88 1:5 3:4
15:8,9,13 withdrawals 1 9:22
34:10 10th 8:4
35:1 30:8 11th 30:13 51:7
38:10 withdraws 11:16 1:13 3:2
