IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CONRAD M. BLACK, JOHN A. :
BOULTBEE, AND MARK S. :
KIPNIS, :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 08-876
UNITED STATES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, December 8, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:16 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MIGUEL A. ESTRADA, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioners.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MIGUEL A. ESTRADA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MIGUEL A. ESTRADA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:16 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 08-876, Conrad Black
et al. v. The United States.
Mr. Estrada.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MIGUEL A. ESTRADA
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. ESTRADA: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
For two decades, courts of appeals
confronting Section 1346 have been unanimous on, at
most, three points.
The first one is that the unvarnished text
of the statute is vague, amorphous, open-ended, and
essentially, not very helpful.
The second one is that a meaningful attempt
to construe the statute can take place, if at all, only
in light of a body of law that this Court rejected in
McNally and Congress likely intended to restore in the
act.
And the third is that this exercise is
fraught with due process and federalism problems and
risks the creation of common law crimes, especially in
the private sector where the pre-McNally precedent was
not well-developed.
The principal question in this case is
whether a prosecution may be sustained under a 1346
theory, under a theory that was not successful before
McNally and, in fact, had been affirmatively rejected,
even in the heyday of the intangible rights doctrine.
Because the answer to that question is "no," all
convictions in this case must be reversed.
It would be well to start by acknowledging
that the root difficulty in this case is that this Court
asked Congress to speak clearly, and Congress did not do
that.
As a result, there is no solution that is
really capable of providing an -- an elegant out to the
morass that the lower courts have been confronting, but
the choices, essentially, fall on three categories.
And the first is to return the matter to
Congress, either because the statute is vague in all of
its applications, both public or private, or as to
private conduct, because there are not enough guideposts
for judicial decision-making to give meaning to the
statute.
The second category of choices --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you don't ask for
the first, do you?
MR. ESTRADA: Yes, we do. I mean, we -- we
have -- we have written a question that necessarily has
that as a predicate, which, under this Court's cases,
leave that predicate open to the Court. We have an --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are -- are you saying that
unless we adopt the limiting instruction that you
propose, the statute is then vague?
MR. ESTRADA: We have argued that. It is
also -- you know, just to -- just to finish painting the
picture, Justice Kennedy, we have -- we have the trunk
of a tree, and that's -- you know, the statute, is it
vague or isn't?
Then we have the question of whether there
is a limiting construction, and Professor Altshuler, for
example, has made a case that limiting the statute to
bribes and kickbacks is a possibility, as that being,
arguably, the only core conduct that Congress could have
contemplated.
And -- and the third one is to go beyond
bribes and -- and kickbacks, and to expand the statute
to what Congress likes to call self-dealing or
non-disclosure, which is really a wholesale takeover of
State commercial law.
In our view, if the Court is disposed to
reach that far into the third category, it is essential
that the restrictions that had been recognized before
McNally be enforced against -- against the government,
but we have briefed the case in the way we have to
this -- basically assuming that this tree is not
imaginary and actually exists --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your theory -- your
theory that return to the pre-McNally cases would help
you is based almost entirely on the D.C. Circuit case --
case in Lemire -- Lemire.
MR. ESTRADA: I think that is not a fair
statement, Mr. Chief Justice. I think the D.C.
Circuit's opinion, of course, is indeed very helpful,
but it was a -- a distillation of what other courts of
appeals have told the government again and again, in
Ballard in the Fifth Circuit, in Feldman in the Seventh,
in --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The -- the
government tells us it was an outlier.
MR. ESTRADA: Well, it had a different view,
as we have pointed out, when they filed the brief in the
Carpenter case. But the fact is, whether it is or it
isn't can be judged by what the contemporaneous cases
were.
And Von Barta, Dixon, all cases in the
Second Circuit, Feldman in the Seventh, Ballard, all had
indicated that this was a requirement of the theory in
intangible rights cases.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, since the -- since the
body of pre-McNally lower court cases was hardly
completely consistent, do you think this is a workable
approach?
MR. ESTRADA: The honest answer is: I do
believe that the statute is vague in all of its -- all
of its applications, and I am happy to explain, quickly,
because of that, why that is.
Obviously, there are obvious problems of
notice with the statute. The more fundamental problem
with the statute, as if the notice problems were not
enough, is in the second prong of the vagueness
doctrine, which is the conferral of discretion to select
the defendant on the government, and in particular, the
prosecutors. And this is a situation not unlike that as
was outlined by Justice Breyer's concurring opinion in
the Morales case.
And what he pointed out, pointing to cases
like Coates v. City of Cincinnati, was that a statute
that essentially confers discretion on the -- on the
police and the prosecutors to select the quarry and come
up with that appropriate justification to sell to the
Court later --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't know what's so
discretionary and harmful about a bribery or kickback
case. Let's take just the limiting principle of the
trunk.
Whether it's in the private or the public
sector, why would, offering, there be any discretion or
any sense of vagueness about saying: It's illegal to
give a bribery?
MR. ESTRADA: I --
JUDGE SOTOMAYOR: To get a contract, to pass
legislation, it's illegal to take a kickback. There is
nothing seemingly vague about that or seemingly
troublesome about prosecutorial discretion in those --
at least those two situations. We could then go to the
self-dealing question.
MR. ESTRADA: I absolutely agree with the
statements that you made, Justice Sotomayor. It is
undoubtedly true that a -- that a statute that
proscribes bribery or kickbacks can constitutionally be
written, if that is what the statute says.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's not your -- it's
not within your test, as I understand it. Your test is,
there has to be economic harm to the person owed the
duty of loyalty.
Now, you could have a bribe or a kickback
that will line the pockets of the person who takes it,
doesn't deceive the person who is giving it, and doesn't
harm the company to whom a duty of loyalty is owed.
So it seems to me that the bribe and
kickback, which I think is heartland McNally, would not
be included in yours. It must be economic harm, actual
or contemplated, to the person owed the duty of loyalty.
MR. ESTRADA: I think that is not a fair
statement, Justice Ginsburg, because in our economic
system, I think it is fairly inferable, and any jury
could so find that if you are a supply agent for a
corporation and you are taking a bribe of $10,000 to
steer the contract to Company X, Company X would be more
than happy, and it would be a matter of indifference to
Company X to just give a 10K break to your employer.
So it is inherent in the economic system in
the private sector that if you're talking about bribes
and kickbacks, there is an obvious, though perhaps not
fully quantifiable, risk of loss to the person to whom
the duty is owed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The problem with the bribe
or kickback explanation, unlike -- or you contend,
unlike yours, is that there's no basis in the statute
for limiting it to that.
MR. ESTRADA: I think, Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, we -- we can't find
a statute that says, "No person shall commit a bad act."
We can't find that to be non-vague as applied to murder.
Everybody knows that murder is a bad act. Would that --
would that law be constitutional?
MR. ESTRADA: No, and that was going to be
the second part of my answer to Justice Sotomayor, and
it is a point that Justice Breyer also made in the
Morales case, taking -- taking the example of Coates v.
City of Cincinnati where the law basically said, "You
shall not engage in annoying conduct."
Now, as Justice Breyer pointed out, many of
us would agree 100 out of 100 that certain things are
definitely annoying. And the fact that you could find,
for example, that an assault is annoying does not mean
that this statute gives notice that -- that, you know,
your conduct is -- is within its written terms --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's say you have a
bank that is going to be opening up a lot of branches in
the State, and one of the directors knows this and knows
where they are going to open them. And he goes around
and buys up the real estate where the bank is going to
put its -- put its branch, so that he gets the benefit
of the -- of the sale. And assume that the price that
-- that he's going to charge is a fair market price, no
different than what anybody else would charge.
Now, is that sort of self-dealing covered
under your view of the statute?
MR. ESTRADA: Well, I think that sort of
self-dealing likely would be covered, not under my view
of the statute, but under Carpenter, because if you were
stealing confidential information from your employer,
and the Court in Carpenter did say that confidential
information is a -- is a form of property as a matter of
Federal law --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But he is not
stealing -- he is not stealing the confidential
information. As the director, he has the perfect right
to know the confidential information.
MR. ESTRADA: But under either view, if you
are going to steal the corporate opportunity, that, too,
is a form of property, and in fact, the property counts
in this very --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I don't know
that I would call it a corporate -- I don't know if I
would call it a corporate opportunity. They are not
looking to sell the land; they need to buy it.
MR. ESTRADA: Precisely, but -- but this is
not unlike cases like O'Hagan, or even Carpenter itself,
in which, you know, the value of the use of the
information comes from learning the confidential plans
of your employer. And in those circumstances, Carpenter
said that the information itself could be a form of
intangible property.
And so that is a different problem than a
native duty violation, which is what we are dealing
here.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just while we are on the
Oeschler thing, and then you'll probably want to go on
to the other thing.
Assume this trial were held again. The
government said: All the same evidence -- same
evidence. Would that evidence suffice for an
instruction to the jury? Could the case go to the jury
under the Oeschler theory?
MR. ESTRADA: Under the obstruction, or -- I
mean, under the -- under the kickback --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Kickback or bribe.
MR. ESTRADA: No, it couldn't. I mean, part
of the point I was going to make is that under any of
these choices, whether the statute is vague or
unapplicable to private conduct, choice one, or whether
it is a kickback or bribe, choice two, there would not
be a case to send to the jury for the defendants in this
case.
The only argument comes up if you really
want to climb to the thinnest reed of the thinnest
branch and say that it could extend to naked
non-disclosure of confidential information or use of
confidential information in violation of a duty imposed
by contract or State law, or maybe even a consent
decree, as in Sorich.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Estrada, let -- let me
pursue the notion I -- I floated earlier, that the
problem with Professor Altshuler's approach is that
there is nothing in the text of the statute that would
enable you to limit it to kickbacks and -- and bribes.
Is there anything in the text of the statute that makes
your proposal any better?
I mean, to be sure, it does -- it does make
this a kind of fraud, and in the past, fraud did require
injury to somebody. But it defined a new kind of fraud,
namely, fraud that consists of the deprivation of honest
services. That's the fraud. That, in and of itself,
under the text of the statute, I take to be the fraud.
MR. ESTRADA: Your Honor, I don't think that
I can give an answer that would be fully satisfactory to
a pure textualist, that this can be taken out of the
words of the statute.
As a practical matter, however, if you
consider the legislative record, and the avowing hint to
restore some part of what McNally had thrown out, then a
harder question comes up, and the issue of what that was
actually becomes highly relevant. But I do not think
that, even under the textualist view, it is fair to say
that Congress went in the private sector from a view of
fraud that is -- that was classically property kind to a
view of fraud that has nothing to do with property.
And the reason for that takes understanding
what -- what the problem really was that Congress was
trying to fix, and that the intangible rights cases were
trying to fix. And it's really one of symmetry.
It has always been the case that mail fraud
is a specific intent crime. And it has always been the
case, and this is clearly stated in cases like Regent
Office Supply and Dixon, from Judge Friendly, that a
part of the specific intent to defraud is an intent to
harm. Now, in classic fraud, the defendant intends to
harm the victim by obtaining, in a corrupt manner, his
property. So there is a perfect symmetry between the
intended harm to the victim and the expected gain of the
defendant, because the gain comes from the victim's
pocket.
The problem of bribes and kickbacks that the
intangible rights cases were trying to deal with is not
that they were trying to dispense with the harm's
requirement to the victim; they were trying to deal with
the lack of symmetry where the person given the payoff
is not deceived and the harm to the victim is
non-quantifiable. And to fix that problem, you could
say that this statute could then say that the term of
art, as the government calls it, that Congress used was
intended to cover that situation.
Now, the proof in the pudding on that comes
from a very well-known case. Let's take, you know, the
Holzer case, which was cited extensively by Justice
Stevens in his dissent in McNally. You may recall it
was a State court judge who had been taking bribes, and
his conviction was affirmed in an opinion by Judge
Posner, which he cited in this case again, which
appears, I think, at 816 F.2d, and it was just a
straight intangible rights affirmment. He sought cert,
you know, Judge Holzer did, and he got a GVR in light of
McNally. And Judge Posner got the case back.
Judge Holzer goes back and there is a second
opinion, 840 F.2d, and Judge Posner has to conclude that
Judge Holzer has to be let go on the mail fraud counts.
And the reason he gives is: Look, the judge obviously
got lots of money, but he didn't get the money from
anybody who was deceived, and all of his victims, which
were the public and the litigants against whom the cases
were fixed, those people didn't lose any money, so that
under the McNally paradigm, because the money that Judge
Holzer got in bribes did not come from the victims, that
-- that judge had to be let go.
And I think that that's part of what
Congress clearly had in mind as was trying to fix.
Now, I agree with your -- with your apparent
antecedent view and what I call issue one in the case,
that the way that Congress did it has been one of not
complying with the request that this Court made. It did
not make anything clear in a way that sets forth in the
text what it does.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but
presumably, the one thing it's odd to suggest Congress
did was sort of run 1346 through 1341, when what it was
trying to fix was the Court's understanding of what 1341
provided.
MR. ESTRADA: There are any -- there are any
number of problems with how Congress chose to do this,
Mr. Chief Justice. That is actually the tip of the
iceberg, because if you look as a textual matter to the
first words of Section 1346, you will see that this new
amended definition of "scheme to defraud" applies to all
of the offenses in Chapter 63 of Title 18. There are 11
of those.
And in addition to mail and wire fraud, at
least three of them -- bank fraud, securities fraud, and
healthcare fraud -- used the phrase "scheme to defraud."
And unless you are prepared to try to save the statute
by -- by trying to identify a core of what Congress was
trying to do that is squarely anchored in the
pre-McNally law, which may or may not be a successful
enterprise, you do not have any textual guidance that
will tell you whether this theory that the government
likes to state at a very high level of generality would
not become a deus ex machina in a number of other
statutes that we have yet to -- to hear from. And that
is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if -- what if I think
that even -- I mean, much of your case is directed to
the point that you -- you have to narrow it this way to
avoid constitutional problems.
What if I think you don't avoid
constitutional problems?
MR. ESTRADA: Then it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why should -- why should I
turn somersaults to -- to come out with the -- with the
interpretation that you want?
MR. ESTRADA: You should not. And in that
event, we fully support -- actually, we support anyway
-- the -- the brief that was filed by the Chamber of
Commerce and the National Association of Criminal
Defense Lawyers, for the proposition that as an
essential matter, this statute cannot be saved.
I am merely pointing out, Justice Scalia,
that for somebody who is not a textualist, that question
may not be as clear-cut.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where -- where in
the record do we find your argument that the statute is
unconstitutional?
MR. ESTRADA: We made it -- we made it in
the district court in a motion to dismiss the
indictment, and I don't believe that is part of the
joint appendix, but it is Docket Entry 261.
And in that same motion, we argued that this
statute, if it were to be applied at all, had to be
interpreted solely as a matter of Federal law, which
oddly enough, is the position that the government has
finally now taken in the Weyhrauch case. And we argued
based on the Jerome case and Cleveland case, which are
the cases that the government has finally discovered.
We argued again in the court of appeals, and
we argued expressly that although the Seventh Circuit
had -- had previously indicated that it would uphold the
constitutionality of the statute against a vagueness
challenge, that Judge Easterbrook, writing for the court
in Thompson, had left open the possibility that they may
yet find a case in which that would be revisited. And
we expressly argued that this was the case for which
Thompson had left the -- the question open.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, what about --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under the test that you
propose, is the test the same? Does the statute read
the same way, and is the test the same for private and
public officials?
MR. ESTRADA: No. No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then we -- then if
we accept your view, we have to have one subset of
definitions for private officials and another for public
officials. It's hard to do that under the statute.
MR. ESTRADA: That is a problem that is
inherent, as I said earlier, in trying to do anything to
save the statute. But let me say --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, under the judge's
bribery case that we just -- that you discussed earlier,
couldn't you take the position that that money the judge
took as a bribe really should have been paid to the
government?
MR. ESTRADA: Well, oddly enough, that was
an argument that was made to Judge Posner and remanded,
the Holzer case, and Judge Posner said, Well, that is
really untenable.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that would fit your
test, though.
MR. ESTRADA: Well, yes, in a -- in a very
formal way. But -- but if I could say just one word on
the question of the public v. Private distinction,
Justice Kennedy, because I think it is important, in
trying to figure out how one goes about trying to fix
what is basically a mess, you have to keep in mind that
the courts had accepted the intangible rights theory
before McNally, and which Congress presumably and -- or
likely was trying to bring back, had -- had not taken
the view that they were doing something other than
fraud.
But they have taken the view that there was
a basis in the concept of fraud for distinguishing
between the public and the private, even before McNally.
And some of this -- this is found in the briefing in
McNally and is set forth in Justice Stevens's dissenting
opinion, that there was this other statute, Section 371
of 18 U.S.C., the conspiracy statute, that uses the
phrase "conspiracy to defraud the United States."
And on the basis of that statute, before
McNally, the courts of appeals have -- have ruled that
an intent to interfere with the property rights of the
government was not an element of the core meaning of the
fraud. And the reason for that was that since 1905, in
a case called Hask v. Henfold, and followed later by a
case called Hammerschmidt, this Court had said that in
order to be convicted of defrauding the government under
this other statute, no need -- there was no need to show
that the government's property interests were -- were
interfered with solely --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you were --
I think you were about to tell me where you raised it in
the Court -- the constitutional argument in this Court?
MR. ESTRADA: We -- we raised that as a
predicate for our question presented. And we said this
is vague, but -- but if -- but if you do not accept this
proposed restriction that has been accepted by the -- by
the courts of appeals, then you would really have to
take the -- take the step of actually striking it down.
If you are asking whether we tendered it as
a separate question presented, the answer to that is no,
Mr. Chief Justice, but under this Court's cases that is
not needed. And the cases that I would direct the --
the Court to for that proposition are -- some of them
are cited in the Chambers brief. And the first one is
U.S. v. Grubbs, where this Court said that in a case
involving the technical sufficiency of a search warrant
it was, of course, open to the Court to consider whether
the particular type of warrant, an anticipatory search
warrant, was categorically improper under the Fourth
Amendment. And -- because, as the court explained, it
was an antecedent question that was a predicate for a
logical disposition of the actual question in front of
the Court.
In doing that -- that, by the way, was a
unanimous opinion by Justice Scalia.
In doing that, you know, the Court cited to
the case of Wilkinson v. Austin, which was another
unanimous opinion, this time by Justice Kennedy. In
that case the issue on which cert had been granted was
the -- the question of what process was due to a -- to a
prisoner in State custody.
And the State of Ohio, that case had
affirmatively conceded that there was a liberty interest
and that the suggestion of the United States as amicus
-- the Court concluded that whether or not there was
even a liberty interest was an antecedent question and
was a logical predicate for -- for the intelligent
consideration.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could you just take a moment
and explain why any error in the honest services
instruction wasn't harmless as applied to the
Forum/Paxton transaction?
MR. ESTRADA: That's -- that's Count Seven?
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes.
MR. ESTRADA: Well --
JUSTICE ALITO: As I understand it, there
was no evidence there that the $600,000 was a -- a
recharacterized management fee; isn't that correct?
MR. ESTRADA: No. The argument on that,
Justice Alito, was entirely different. The -- the
record does show that the executive committee of
Hollinger and the full board unanimously, including
every member of the audit committee, had approved the
execution of the noncompetes with Paxton and -- and
Forum. And the only other evidence as to why they were
not in fact executed as contemplated by the board
resolutions was Radler's testimony that Kipnis simply
forgot.
Now, significantly, after the jury came back
and found all three of the defendants guilty on that
count, Judge Sansieve entered a judgment of acquittal
for Kipnis on Count Seven, finding that the evidence was
insufficient as to him. And if there are no further
questions, I would like to reserve my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
Mr. Dreeben.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
The Petitioner today has sought to present a
question to this Court that he chose not to include in
his questions presented, whether the statute is
unconstitutionally vague in all of its applications.
What he did present in his question
presented to this Court is whether there is an element
of contemplated economic harm inherent in the concept of
fraud in Section 1341, so that any honest services
prosecution must show contemplated or foreseeable
economic harm in order to be sustained.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But I don't -- I don't have
the heart to inquire into that question if I think that
the whole statute is bad. And that's the point he is
raising, that it's -- it's a predicate to our
considering that question, that if you agree with him,
you think the statute will be sustained.
But if I think the whole statute is bad,
what -- you know, why should I engage in -- in this
exercise?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't make any sense
to make me do that.
MR. DREEBEN: Maybe you should wait for a
Petitioner who presents the question, rather than
granting relief to a Petitioner who chose not to raise
the constitutional issue in this Court --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it's a little --
it's a little odd that you -- you would say that an
argument that shows a way the statute can be saved
cannot be -- cannot be presented.
MR. DREEBEN: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, he's saying the
statute could be saved, if at all, if you adopt this --
this construction. And if you do, his -- his conviction
must be set aside.
MR. DREEBEN: I think that the Court should
reach that issue, the issue whether there is
contemplated economic harm as a requirement for the
statute, and the government briefed that issue, and I
disagree with Petitioner that contemplated economic harm
is either an element of the statute or necessary to save
its constitutionality.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, on the other hand,
if we just can't find a -- a grounding in the statute
for it, then that's because the statute's there.
MR. DREEBEN: What this statute is, Justice
Kennedy, is Congress's effort to reinstate the body of
law that this Court held was not a valid construction of
the mail fraud statute.
JUSTICE BREYER: Before you -- do you --
does the government feel that it hasn't had an adequate
opportunity to brief the constitutionality of the
statute?
MR. DREEBEN: If the Court wished to address
the constitutionality of the statute, the government
would brief it more fully, including by making the
points that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Might this come up in the
Skilling case?
MR. DREEBEN: The Skilling case raises the
question of whether if this Court does not interpret --
JUSTICE BREYER: So we have to say, in your
view -- no, I'm just -- I'm cutting into you because I
don't -- you answered it once you said that.
The -- the -- what I wonder is, does the
government feel, in order to have a full opportunity to
brief constitutionality, that we should issue an order
saying: Please brief the constitutionality?
MR. DREEBEN: If the Court believes that
that is a necessary question to resolve, then it should
be briefed in a supplemental passage --
JUSTICE BREYER: So we should say that?
MR. DREEBEN: But not in this case, because
I think if a Petitioner comes to this Court and presents
a particular statutory construction question and then
seeks to smother in --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That would be --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- does Skilling -- I'm
sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Directly answer this
question: Does Skilling present the pure question or
not?
MR. DREEBEN: No, because in Skilling,
Justice Sotomayor, the question is whether an element of
personal or private gain needs to be read into the
statute in order to render it constitutional.
Now, in all fairness to Mr. Skilling, he has
not filed his opening brief; the government has not
filed its response. So that case --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We don't know if that's
going to be --
MR. DREEBEN: That case may present a -- a
different issue. But again, I -- I think that if a
Petitioner wishes to come to this Court and say that a
statute is unconstitutionally vague in all of its
applications, this is not a statute that offends First
Amendment rights or anything --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, Mr. Dreeben,
you agree that it would be very unusual if in June we
announced the opinion in your case agreeing with you and
then the next case announced that the statute is
unconstitutional?
MR. DREEBEN: Agreed.
(Laughter.)
MR. DREEBEN: I would vastly prefer,
Mr. Chief Justice, that the Court hold that it is
constitutional. And I think that it should, because --
let me outline --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, just -- just so we --
we know what is -- what is going on here: It is not the
case that the Petitioner here has said here that if we
adopt his interpretation, it will render the statute
constitutional. He doesn't say that.
He says that if we adopt his interpretation,
we can avoid reaching the constitutional question,
because whether it's constitutional or not, it at least
requires the -- the kind of financial harm that -- that
he asserts. So he is not asserting that if we -- if we
accept his position, the statute is constitutional. I
don't read his brief as saying that, anyway.
MR. DREEBEN: That's probably a fair
characterization of language in his brief, but it does
bear note that he never asked this Court to decide that
question.
Now, the question that is before the Court,
and I think it will illuminate the vagueness concerns
that are on the Justice's minds, is: What does the
statute mean? And the way to understand this statute is
to recognize that when this Court held in McNally that
the mail fraud statute did not protect intangible
rights, Congress came back in response to this Court's
invitation and said: Yes, it does; it protects the
intangible right of honest services which had assumed
the status of a term of art in --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How could it have been a
term of art when the courts -- the lower courts were
massively confused?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Ginsburg, I think the
description of the lower courts as massively confused is
not correct. It's not a fair description of the cases.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, there wasn't even a
uniform terminology in the lower courts. They didn't
all use --
MR. DREEBEN: All of the lower courts used
essential synonyms for what Congress sought to
reinstate. They refer to the right of honest services,
faithful and honest services, loyal and honest services,
and they were talking about one thing: Divided
loyalties of an agent or a fiduciary.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, as I hear that -- I am
exaggerating, possibly, but I think every agent has a
duty of loyalty to provide loyal and honest services to
the master, master agent. Every worker is an agent of
his master, the employer. So every instance in which a
worker does not provide honest services to the employer,
he has met your test.
I think there are 300 -- perhaps there are
150 million workers in the United States. I think
possibly 140 of them would flunk your test.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, that's what
worrying me. Now, why? Because -- I -- "Do you like my
hat?" Says the boss. "Oh, I love your hat," says the
worker.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Why? So the boss will
leave the room so that the worker can continue to read
the racing form. Deception? Designed to work at
reading the racing form instead of doing your honest
work and, therefore, violation?
Now, explain to me how your test does not --
and I think you can probably do it; I just don't
understand it at the moment. Explain it to me, how your
test does not make this statute potentially
criminalizing 100 million workers in the United States,
or some tens of millions?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, I hope you
give me a moment to explain my theory of the statute in
response to your question. The statute covers bribes,
kickbacks, and undisclosed conflicts of interest by an
agent or fiduciary who takes action to further that
interest.
These were well-recognized categories of
honest services violations. Virtually every circuit
that examined the pre-McNally case law said these are
the prototypical cases. Bribes, kickbacks, undisclosed
conflicts of interest by an agent or fiduciary who takes
action to further that interest. These are not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So is that -- does
the right to intangible services refer to an obligation
that is legal or moral?
MR. DREEBEN: Legal, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Only -- only legal?
So that if in a State their corporate law says conflicts
of interest with respect to spouse and children must be
disclosed, but conflicts of interest with respect to
nieces and nephews need not, you would say you cannot
use this statute to prosecute somebody who, under some
abstract sense, should have told their employer that,
"My niece is going to get $10 million if we go ahead
with this contract"?
MR. DREEBEN: Let me make two points in
response to that, Mr. Chief Justice.
The obligation under 1346 is a Federal
obligation. Congress, by reinstating this body of law,
by virtue of 1346, created a Federal obligation that is
not dependent on State law. And I think we will address
this more in the Weyhrauch case, where that issue is
specifically presented, but it should not be understood
as a State law obligation.
Second, the core --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Then what's the
source -- and I think that's inherent in the Chief
Justice's question -- what is it -- where did he draw
the line and where do we go to look to where you draw
the line on what information needs to be disclosed?
Because if it's not a niece, my best friend is going to
get a 1.4 million on this deal.
Where is the line drawn, and what is the
source of the law that we look to to figure out where to
draw that line?
MR. DREEBEN: The line is personal
conflicting financial interests of the individual, which
--
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you are talking about
private gain? Do I gain something as opposed to --
because that -- I know that is the Skilling case. But
if --
MR. DREEBEN: I prefer not to address the
Skilling case until that has been briefed.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, but that's -- you
have to, because you have to tell us what draws -- you
have to give us the source or some source of limiting,
of limitation. And that's what Justice Breyer has been
talking about.
MR. DREEBEN: I'm trying to do that, Justice
Sotomayor. A personal conflicting financial interest is
not subtle, it is ascertainable, it is core, it is the
characterizing feature of the vast majority of --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now this -- I'm just
getting a label, and as I hear you talk, I think it's
not what you necessarily -- I found in the brief, or
didn't understand it from the brief -- but I found
precisely what you said, it seems to me in what I have
labeled Altshuler alternative B, does that ring a bell?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I don't know what
Professor Altshuler's alternative B was.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, yes. You've read the
briefs-- you've read the briefs. He has alternative A
and alternative B. And alternative A he says kickbacks,
and it could be limited to bribery or kickbacks. In
alternative B he adds bribery, kickbacks and undisclosed
self-dealing capable of causing economic harm. That's
what I got out of the brief.
MR. DREEBEN: I would not have --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now I just heard what you
said and it sounded like the same thing.
MR. DREEBEN: It's not the same thing and I
think this goes back --
JUSTICE BREYER: It is not causing economic
harm.
MR. DREEBEN: Not causing economic harm
because there are instances where important fiduciary
relationships are breached personally. For example,
doctor-patient, lawyer-client, union-union
representative, where the harms are intangible; they are
noneconomic; they were intended to be picked up by this
statute. But to answer your question directly, Justice
Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: So what about my racing
form? He is acting for himself and not his employer.
MR. DREEBEN: That -- that is -- implicates
a -- one of the two important limiting principles on
this statute which is materiality and intent to defraud.
And I do not think that any jury would find and the
government would be very foolish to prosecute that
material --
JUSTICE BREYER: Different matter.
Different matter. The foolish to prosecute, jury
defined, worries me for the reason that what's in the
back of my mind -- and you will see what -- I am
disclosing to you what is in the back of my mind.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: When the criminal code was
reenacted and never was, one kind of joke was that it
there it would be -- there would one ball, the law would
be read as a crime to do wrong, okay? "It is a crime to
do wrong." Sometimes adding, "in the opinion of the
Attorney General." All right.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Now you see the problem?
It may be you would never prosecute it. It may be a
jury would never convict. But that isn't the basis for
having a statute that picks up 80 or 100 million people.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, the point that
I was making is that this statute does not establish a
free-floating federal crime based on a breach of a
trivial duty. It requires materiality, as all fraud
statutes do; it requires --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But defined how? That's
what I'm -- I'm trying -- material in what way? Because
if you don't how by an economic loss to the victim or by
private gain to the -- to the perpetrator, then you are
left with what substance to the issue of materiality?
MR. DREEBEN: The --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What becomes important?
MR. DREEBEN: The issue of materiality --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That the -- for an
auditor on April 14th his guy -- or April 1st his
employee goes off to a ball game? It could be a huge
economic loss to that employer by that employee's
decision at that particular moment to go to a baseball
game as opposed to working.
MR. DREEBEN: I agree, Justice Sotomayor,
but materiality as the Second Circuit said in the
Rybicki opinion is a time-tested way of separating
out --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the Second Circuit
said economic loss --
MR. DREEBEN: No --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that there has to be
the risk of economic loss --
MR. DREEBEN: With all respect --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- in the private
sector.
MR. DREEBEN: -- Justice Sotomayor, the
Seventh Circuit in its Rybicki opinion in the en banc
opinion did not say that, nor I think is it fair to say
that the Second Circuit had ever said that economic loss
was an element of an intangible rights fraud, either
pre-McNally or post-McNally.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is -- I mean, I'm
still waiting to hear what materiality consists. It is
just -- de minimus doesn't count? Is that all you mean?
MR. DREEBEN: Materiality, Justice Scalia,
it takes the classic definition of your opinions for the
Court in Kungis and Gaudin as reasonably likely to
affect the decision of the body to whom the statement is
made.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So if the employee would
be fired if defalcation had come to light, that's
material?
MR. DREEBEN: If the government proves that
it would be. And I should add --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right, that's the ball
game.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then that's the ball game.
Hypo: you go to the ball game, the government --
MR. DREEBEN: No, it's not the ball game.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The employer finds out
about it, he fires -- so it's material because you would
be fired for it.
MR. DREEBEN: Materiality isn't the only
element. It's not a divided loyalties issue.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm asking about just
materiality. Just materiality would be satisfied. You
said that if the employer would fire, that is material.
And then we had the ball game hypothetical. Then you
said oh, well, and then some other thing. But we are
talking just about materiality so you should stick with
that question.
MR. DREEBEN: I'll -- I agree, Justice
Kennedy, and I intend to answer that question, but I
think that it is fair to say, for me that by
acknowledging that something can be material if the
employer would take different action does not mean that
everything that the employee does is a crime. The
employee is not exercising the official powers of his
office or job, and that is what was critical.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: He drives to the ball game
in the government -- in the company car.
MR. DREEBEN: He is still not exercising the
powers of his company, he is off on a frolic and detour.
What the pre-McNally cases were looking at were agents
who --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Excuse me, may I ask you
to put -- in terms of your brief, you said your
definition of materiality -- you said materiality is
related to but different from what Mr. Estrada is urging
the Court to adopt: economic harm to the victim. So
can you tell us how materiality is related to economic
harm to the victim and how it is different from economic
harm to the victim?
MR. DREEBEN: It is related to it, Justice
Ginsburg, in that in a business setting materiality will
be in most cases coextensive with economic harm at least
if economic harm is conceived as I conceive it, and as
the cases have conceived of it as extending to things
like harm to reputation that will interfere with a
business's ability to go forward.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it -- it doesn't answer
the racing form case. I mean, you are using materiality
in two senses. All you mean by materiality is that the
misrepresentation must have been material, okay? So in
the racing form case, let's say the question the boss
asked is, you know, "Are you going to work hard this
afternoon? Or do I have to stand here and look over
your shoulder? " And he says, "Boss, I'm going to work
hard this afternoon. " "Okay, then I'll leave." And the
boss leaves. That representation is material in that it
got the boss to leave, whereupon he reads the racing
form.
But you know, that's immaterial in another
sense, it's a -- it's not a substantial crime. And
that's -- that's what we are looking for here, something
that -- that separates reading the racing form from
really harming the employer --
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- to a substantial degree.
And you have nothing in your -- in your brief or in your
argument that eliminates these de minimus kind of --
what should I say --
MR. DREEBEN: Fraud.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Misrepresentations to the
employer.
MR. DREEBEN: In -- the first line of
response to this, Justice Scalia, is that these are
all -- what you are describing are all money or property
frauds that could be charged if the government so chose
so long as the mails or the wires were involved. The
mail fraud statute doesn't by itself carve out de
minimus frauds.
The concept of materiality, though, in my
concept of the divided loyalties that lies at the heart
of honest services fraud, includes in itself the concept
of an undisclosed interest that is important in some
way, because the obligation of the employee, the agent,
the fiduciary, the company executive, the politician who
has been elected to office, is defined by a bedrock
substratum of fiduciary duties that are universally
recognized in the common law, that were --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Dreeben, can I ask
this? It seems to me that even if there is some
economic harm amounting to the cost of a World Series
ticket, that's all -- or the amount of gas used to drive
to the ballpark, that could still not meet the
materiality requirement.
MR. DREEBEN: I agree with that, justice
Stevens.
MR. DREEBEN: There is no bright line rule
just based on economic harm versus everything else.
MR. DREEBEN: There is no bright line rule
in the law of mail fraud in these issues but the scope
of the duty that has been recognized in the pre-McNally
cases had to do with the conflicts of interest produced
by bribes, produced by people who took kickbacks,
produced by self-dealing where somebody was selling his
own product to the company but not disclosing that he
had an interest in the company.
JUSTICE BREYER: That -- that is Altshuler
B, which I -- that seems to work, but then you want to
go beyond that.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I --
JUSTICE BREYER: And I think in going beyond
that is the paradigm case of -- of moonlighting?
MR. DREEBEN: No, it's not.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, because --
MR. DREEBEN: There was no pre-McNally case
that ever --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no, no. I'm trying
to get -- encapsulate your test in my mind. I'm just
trying to find a way, so as I listen to you, I think
what you are driving at -- a paradigm case of what you
are driving at would be moonlighting.
MR. DREEBEN: If by moonlighting, Justice
Breyer, you mean somebody who has a business on the side
and in dealing with his own company.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes -- no -- yes. He takes
a day -- he leaves an hour early because he is selling
real estate.
MR. DREEBEN: No. That's -- no, no.
Self-dealing in the kind that I am talking about is
where somebody has -- he is playing the role of loyal
corporate employee, loyal corporate officer, but he is
actually working for himself by buying from his own
company, without disclosing that to the --
JUSTICE BREYER: You have to have all those
elements? One -- I mean, everybody is working for the
company. Everybody has loyalty to the company owner.
And, now, you are saying everybody has competing things
that they sort of like to do, which would deprive the
owner of the honest services, but you are saying, in
addition to that, he has to have his own company?
MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: In addition to that, what?
MR. DREEBEN: What I -- I'm describing for
you are the core cases, so that this Court can put a
definition on honest services fraud that would be
familiar to the lower courts which have had this body of
case law ongoing for close to 40 years now and have
never encountered the problems that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But is the problem the
nondisclosure?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or is the problem the --
the self-dealing itself, the fact that the person is
receiving a gain? There's where I'm trying to draw the
line because I keep going back to -- what is the source
of information that would put a limitation on how much
you disclose or don't disclose?
It has to be -- the issue has to be looked
at differently, which is the evil is the self-dealing,
the gain the person's receiving. I know, you don't want
me to go there because of Skilling, but I'm troubled
because the issue of disclosure creates a Federal common
law of what's important to tell either the public or a
private employer?
And I don't know how to define that issue of
importance --
MR. DREEBEN: Well, the real --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- other than to say
that it's a gain that the individual's receiving or
something the individual's doing.
MR. DREEBEN: I think that the theory that
the government proposes to this Court, which involves
personal conflicting financial interests, that the agent
or fiduciary furthers by taking official action provides
a set of cases that subsumes what you're interested in,
Justice Sotomayor, and provides guidance to the lower
courts and to prosecutors on what can be charged.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if my son gets the
money? I don't get the money. My son does.
MR. DREEBEN: Your son, Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's an adult son.
MR. DREEBEN: The adult son is not you,
personally, no. I don't think that this is the -- the
core of the pre-McNally cases involve personal
conflicting financial interest.
JUDGE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. You're --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that -- that is how a
lawyer is supposed to advise his client. He says, well,
what this means is the core of pre-McNally cases.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: And he -- and he sends him
off to read the pre-McNally cases. And I have to tell
you, they are a mess, I don't understand them at all.
It's one of the reasons McNally came out the way it did.
Is -- you speak as though it is up to us to
write the statute. We can make it mean whatever it --
you know, whatever would -- would save it or whatever we
think is a good idea, but that's not our job.
What -- what does the statute say? And, if
all it does is refer us to the pre-McNally cases, I'm
at -- I'm at sea.
MR. DREEBEN: I think that Petitioner and I
agree that Congress wrote this statute with the use of
the phrase "right of honest services" as a term of art,
in order to refer to a body of law that it understood
had a consistent core, and that core --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe it was wrong. Just
because it understood it had a consistent core, it has a
consistent -- consistent core?
MR. DREEBEN: No, but it, in fact, did have
one, and the reason that it had one, even though this
Court held that the mail fraud statute did not protect
the deprivation of intangible rights, there was,
nonetheless, at the heart of the pre-McNally cases, a
substratum of a universal common law rule of fiduciary
duties and agency that has, as an undisputed and not at
all vague core, that agents can't engage in undisclosed
self-dealing.
They can't --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Now, kickbacks and -- and
bribes is clear. Sometimes, the government just talks
about conflict of interest. Sometimes, it says, "taking
action under conflict of interest." Well, action is
quite broad.
And that's -- what do you include concretely
within this self-dealing category? Taking or taking
action on the basis of undisclosed information?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Ginsburg, it's when
the same person is on two sides of the transaction, so
you have in, for example, this case, Mr. Black is going
to receive compensation from his company, and on behalf
of the company, he is authorizing and entering into
alleged noncompetition agreements that recharacterize
the money or, in a case of Count 7, I think Justice
Alito is absolutely correct, outright steal the money.
He --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, could I
ask -- could I ask you just, in terms -- the terms of
the statute, does your theory give any independent
substance to the word "right"?
It seems, to me, your argument is that --
that someone who deprives another of honest services. I
don't know where the concept of "right" comes in, which
is in the statute.
MR. DREEBEN: The right refers,
Mr. Chief Justice, to the acknowledgment that there was
a common law fiduciary duty that was assimilated into
the law of fraud, really, beyond dispute. I haven't
understood --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the point -- I
guess maybe this is -- maybe I asked you this before.
The -- the right is not limited to specific legal
obligations, but to a developing Federal common law of
criminal liability?
MR. DREEBEN: No, it certainly is not,
Mr. Chief Justice. Congress intended to basically say
to this Court, you have determined that intangible
rights are not protected under the mail fraud statute.
Only money or property is.
Congress desired to correct the statute by
protecting frauds that involve intangible rights, and it
did that by using a term of art that was replete
throughout the legislative debates, for those who read
them, as referring to the same core body of cases that
we rely on here.
And those cases -- any -- any legal rule
will have cases at the margins, in which reasonable
jurists will debate whether --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Dreeben, I should know
this, but refresh my memory. The body of pre-McNally
court of appeals cases, to what extent were they just
public rights versus private? Was there a substantial
body?
MR. DREEBEN: There was a larger body of
public sector cases. There was a very substantial body
of private sector cases, many of which were cited in
Your Honor's dissent in the McNally case.
And those cases, I think, as Mr. -- the
Chief Justice indicated earlier, contained, but a single
opinion, the Lemire opinion from the D.C. circuit, that
talked about contemplated economic harm.
Petitioner seeks to assimilate that,
somehow, into the notion of an intent to defraud that he
says was inherent in the mail fraud statute everywhere
and always before McNally.
But if he seriously believes in that theory,
then he would have to say that a -- an intangible rights
defendant would have to contemplate economic harm,
foresee economic harm in any intangible rights case,
which would knock out, immediately, many of the critical
pre-McNally public official cases, in which a legislator
takes a bribe for action that doesn't implicate the
pecuniary interests of the holder or the fiduciary duty
or in which a union official accepts payment for someone
who wants to apply for membership. Membership fees are
fixed. It's not as if the union is losing money.
And it's really inconceivable that Congress
would have passed a statute to say, we don't want this
law to be limited to property rights. And somehow,
through the back door, smuggle in the same test of
contemplated economic harm.
What the right way to handle this issue
is -- is to look at it under the rubric of materiality
because materiality is flexible. It considers what the
rights are of the particular fiduciary --
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought materiality just
has to do with whether a false statement you make, in
fact, causes the effect, or is likely to, that is the
harmful effect.
MR. DREEBEN: But the point, Justice Breyer,
is --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's always there.
MR. DREEBEN: -- that materiality would
function much like the Petitioner's contemplated
economic harm requirement in private sector, private
enterprise cases.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, and the -- and the
reason I say with -- maybe I have the example that I
mean now. In the cases you just mention, the bribe
case? Right, the legislature is not going to gain. The
legislator or the briber might, but somebody will.
And the object of those bribes was that
there would be economic gain, and that was what -- when
I went through all those McNally cases, I thought I
could fit them into this alternative Altshuler thing,
but now, you -- you worry me that you have a different
test that will bring in like any failure to fill out a
disclosure form.
A deliberate failure to answer a box, one
out of 1,000, for every government employee, would
immediately -- 20 years in jail.
MR. DREEBEN: No, not immediately, because
there needs to be an intent to defraud, which
includes -- Mr. Chief Justice, if I might finish.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
MR. DREEBEN: -- which includes knowledge of
the legal duty that the employee is violating and will
include materiality. And these are the issues that
screen conflicts and prosecutions in a variety of public
corruption type cases, and across the board economic
harm requirement, which I understood today Petitioner to
disavow would devastate the application statute in its
core areas of public corruption cases.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dreeben.
Mr. Estrada, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MIGUEL A. ESTRADA
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. ESTRADA: Just a few points,
Mr. Chief Justice. First, it bear emphasis that the
government has once again said that this is a federal
obligation.
This entire case was tried based on Talmudic
debates of the ins and outs of Section 144 of the
Delaware law of corporations. We had motions to
dismiss, we had briefing. The jury was given detailed
instructions, and this goes to all of the fraud counts,
Justice Alito. You cannot say that you can uphold
something as harmless when the entire theory on which
the case was tried actually has been changed at the
Supreme Court of the United States.
Relatedly, I would like to add, because the
government said that count seven was a theft, that the
government's theory on count seven was that the
noncompetes were frauds from their inception, because
the reps from Paxton and Forum, none was wanted. And in
fact, other counts that charged Forum and Paxton, two
and three, you know, the jury returned a verdict of
acquittal. And as did Judge Sansieve on Kipnis on
seven.
And that makes it highly likely that -- that
the jury convicted based on the government 's argument,
that even though every single member of the audit
committee approved the noncompetes as a member of the
board, that Delaware law required a separate and prior
application to the audit committee.
And if that's what the jury was told, you
cannot really say that count seven is separate.
Second --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where was that in the
charge?
MR. ESTRADA: Excuse me, Your Honor?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The charge -- the judge
charged the jury in terms of Delaware law?
MR. ESTRADA: Yes, yes, Your Honor. The
jury was told -- let me find that, I think it's around
page 336.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: 336.
MR. ESTRADA: Yeah, 336 and 337, and the
jury was given detailed instructions as to how all this
turned on whether the transactions at issue were, quote,
entirely fair under Delaware law.
And the jury was further told --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it said honest
services include fiduciary duties under corporate.
MR. ESTRADA: Correct. And then you then
went to say that -- that, you know, Delaware was
controlling -- this is the middle of page 336 A -- under
Delaware law, a corporation's officers have these
duties, one of them is loyalty. Loyalty requires this
and such under Delaware law.
One of the things that -- that would allow
the jury to convict was the notion that the government
in entirely just has odds for understandable reasons,
but this was not entirely fair. And a transaction could
fail to be entirely fair if every disclosure that should
have been made in accordance with Delaware law was not
made.
On the second point that I wanted to make is
the question of whether we are really embarking on the
federal common law of materiality.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- I know you are
running out of time, but you are speaking so fast I
can't even follow you anymore.
MR. ESTRADA: I apologize, Your Honor.
The second question I wanted to address is a
question that you raised, Justice Sotomayor, it is false
to say that the materiality is a filter. Criminal law,
just as a question of doctrine, has always looked at the
mens rea, as the filter that takes out the culpable from
the nonculpable. In this case, you know, the so-called
filter is elusory. If you have a money or property
case -- Your Honor, may I finish?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish your thought.
MR. ESTRADA: -- you know what the decision
is that you are supposing to induce, whether you --
whether the person would part with the money. Here the
but-for world, was the decision that the employer might
make, do I dock his pay; do I give him a demotion; do I
fire him for all purposes, or do I simply say, that I
would not have authorized him to be absent at all for
the ball game. None of those things is specified, and
the entire test of the filter is as vague as the
statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:18 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
55:15 44:24 anticipatory 48:13 Ballard 6:15,25
agree 8:16 10:13 15:25 aside 25:15 bank 10:19,22
29:1 38:20 41:21 29:2 asking 21:20 baseball 36:19
Agreed 28:10 apparent 16:8 assault 10:15 36:4 41:24
38:23 ahead 27:11 21:1,18 48:22 assimilate 49:8 10:10 20:11
al 3:5 1:16 47:23 basis 9:23 20:18
23:5,7,11 appendix 18:15 assume 10:24 47:3
44:25 alternative 34:2 4:19 7:9 24:9 attempt 3:17 2:4,6,9 3:8
47:3 34:4,6,7,7,9 28:3 Attorney 35:21 24:4 47:7
51:1 applied 10:3 audit 23:14 51:25
amended 16:24 13:10 authorizing bell 34:2
33:11 22:6 28:4 7:24 avoid 17:18,19 best 32:24
amicus 22:20 approved 23:14 28:22 better 13:14
39:13 41:17 arguably 5:17 47:6
22:19 10:14,15 2:2,7 3:4,7 20:14 23:20 37:20 43:22
21:21 27:12 23:10 24:3 50:1 boss 30:20,23
broad 46:25 29:22 31:18 52:2 55:1,12 23:12,14 53:1
business's 39:23 45:1,10,15,18 choices 4:16,23 41:14 44:13
C categorically circuit 6:8,15,25 42:25 43:9,12
30:7,18 C 2:1 3:1 22:5 18:24 31:16 43:12,16 47:7
31:9 call 5:21 11:20 categories 4:16 36:22,25 37:9 47:8
34:5 11:21 16:9 31:15 37:11 49:6 compensation
35:1 called 21:5,6 category 4:23 Circuit's 6:12 47:7
calls 15:7 5:25 47:2 circumstances competing
42:8,12 capable 4:14 causes 50:9 12:2 43:13
34:10 causing 34:10 cited 15:11,15 completely 7:5
car 39:4 34:17,19 21:25 22:12 complying
Carpenter 6:21 cert 15:17 22:15 49:2 16:11
12:18 case 3:4 4:2,8,10 challenge 19:2 37:18 conceived 39:20
19:23 5:15 6:3,8,9,21 Chamber 18:2 classically 14:7 39:21
50:20 7:19 8:3 10:9 Chambers clear 16:12 concept 20:18
34:8,9 15:11,15,19 Chapter 16:25 14:15 16:7 concerns 29:8
13:12 18:20,21,21 29:4 Cleveland 18:21 concluded 22:21
15:13 19:4,5,21 20:2 characterizing client 45:14 concretely 47:1
31:11,18 21:5,6 22:1,13 33:21 climb 13:2 concurring 7:18
46:22 22:15,18 26:14 charge 10:25 close 43:23 conduct 4:20
26:15 27:3,21 11:1 53:8,10 Coates 7:21 10:9 5:17 10:11,17
26:7,11 28:18 31:17 45:3 52:19 coextensive conferral 7:15
27:20 32:15 33:9,12 53:11 39:19 confers 7:22
33:24 39:25 40:3 Chief 3:3,9 6:6 come 7:23 16:4 confidential
34:11 42:13,16,21 6:11,17 10:18 17:23 26:13 11:7,8,12,14
40:18 43:23 47:6,10 11:11,19 16:14 28:1 37:23 12:1 13:4,5
27:1 52:5,12 54:23 21:11,22 24:1 14:3,22 15:9 conflicting 33:5
54:25 55:13,14 24:5 27:8,11 27:4 47:19 33:19 44:24
6:24 7:2,4,20 31:25 32:10,20 commercial conflicts 31:12
4:15 24:12,14 25:18 15:22 52:9,19 D 53:2,11,19,24
50:2,15 court 1:1,14 day 43:2 deliberate 51:5
6:22 5:4,24 7:4,25 41:4 Department
14:6 contend 9:22 11:8 15:13 deal 14:25 15:2 1:20
15:7 continue 30:24 16:11 18:13,23 32:25 dependent
contract 8:10 19:2 21:6,13 dealing 12:6 32:14
20:13 9:13 13:6 32:8 21:13,24 22:1 42:25 deprivation
30:2 controlling 22:3,6,9,12,21 debate 48:19 13:18 46:14
46:4 53:25 24:7,11 25:6 debates 48:14 deprive 43:14
49:23 convict 35:25 25:16 26:3,9 52:6 deprives 47:18
25:14 44:23 46:13 Deception 30:25 29:21,22
core 5:17 17:6 courts 3:11 4:15 decision 36:19 desired 48:11
33:20 43:20 21:1,18 29:18 decision-maki... 53:17
48:15 51:19 45:3 defalcation deus 17:12
11:20,21 32:1 16:17 21:22 defendant 7:16 developing 48:4
corporation cover 15:8 defendants 11:1 12:5
17:18,20 corporations covers 31:11 Defense 18:4 35:10,11 38:24
25:6 52:7 created 32:13 define 44:16 39:12,15 51:2
28:14,20 corporation's creates 44:13 defined 13:17 differently
29:1 54:1 creation 3:24 35:12 36:7 44:10
25:22 29:22 47:11 35:19,19 36:4 definitely 10:14 direct 21:23
48:11 53:23 38:25 40:12 definition 16:24 directed 17:16
corruption criminal 18:3 43:21 34:25
25:14 cost 41:17 54:20 19:15 directors 10:20
27:5 counsel 21:11 criminalizing defraud 14:17 disagree 25:20
37:16 47:10 culpable 54:22 defrauding 21:7 32:23
9:7 23:17 counts 11:17 cutting 26:18 Delaware 52:7 42:6 43:9
54:8 31:9,24 32:9 41:17,24 49:7 55:10 39:9 53:9
34:3,12,15,19 50:16,24 51:16 23:11 53:19 execution 23:15
8:6,13 36:14,21 37:2 effort 26:2 Entry 18:15 41:11
38:7,11,20 11:15 25:21 especially 3:24 24:24
41:21,23,25 elegant 4:14 essential 5:25 exists 6:5
48:20,25 50:11 eliminates 40:19 43:3 explanation
driving 42:21,22 employee 36:17 10:6 11:4,15 extending 39:21
41:7 46:17 53:22 43:7 51:6,13 17:21,25 18:12 extent 48:22
duty 8:24 9:3,7 36:18 20:6 21:14 F
51:13 35:3 36:18 53:16,23 54:17 46:11 50:9
54:21 6:8,11 49:6 40:15,23 44:15 et 3:5 fail 54:8
31:1 E en 37:9 everybody 10:4 fair 6:10 9:8
E 2:1 3:1,1 enable 13:12 43:11,12,13 10:25 14:5
44:5 early 43:2 encountered 23:16,23 54:7,8
24:2,3,5,25 9:6,9,16 24:12 24:23 46:18 30:8 fall 4:16
24:15 25:18,20 entered 23:22 examined 31:17
entering 47:8 example 5:15 familiar 43:22
36:9,18 37:1,4 enterprise 17:9 10:9,15 34:21
39:13,14 50:17 47:6 50:19 fast 54:15
32:11,13 16:7,17 20:10 Friendly 14:16 38:6 39:23 40:7
44:13 fixed 16:2 49:22 frolic 39:6 42:10 44:12 harder 14:3
52:3 flexible 50:5 front 22:8 goes 10:21 15:20 harm 8:23 9:3,6
floated 13:9 full 23:13 26:21 20:10 34:16 14:18,19,21
foreseeable further 23:24 40:4,6 42:12 41:24 49:7,14
34:20 forgot 23:19 furthers 44:25 50:21 51:17
44:25 form 11:9,17 F.2d 15:16,21 good 45:24 harmful 8:2
47:23 12:3 30:25 government 6:2 50:10
50:6 31:1 35:3 G 6:14,18 7:16 harming 40:15
39:25 40:3,10 G 3:1 12:12 15:7 harmless 23:2
forth 16:12 36:10 44:5,11 25:19 26:6,10 harm's 15:1
Forum 23:16 game 36:17,20 35:8 37:25 hat 30:20,20
55:10 23:3 gas 41:18 51:6 52:3,15 30:7 33:23
44:24 23:21 33:24,25 35:21 21:9 52:16 heart 24:17 41:7
Fourth 22:5 generality 17:11 granted 22:15 46:15
18:10 13:17,18,19,20 Ginsburg 8:21 grounding held 12:11 26:3
25:24 14:7,8,13,18 9:9 29:17,20 25:24 29:11 46:13
42:20 15:22 17:2,3,3 29:23 39:9,18 Grubbs 22:1 help 6:7
17:4 20:16,18 46:21 47:4 guess 48:2 helpful 3:16
55:1 40:21 41:4,8 31:10 33:15 guilty 23:21 high 17:11
48:9 49:10 53:17 hint 14:1
16:23 48:12 52:17 giving 9:2 21:6 Hollinger 23:13
28:3 fraught 3:23 go 5:19 8:14 hand 25:23 Holzer 15:11,18
52:2 free-floating 12:9,14 15:22 handle 50:3 15:20,22 16:4
including 23:13 14:21 15:8 judge 8:10 14:16 36:2,7,13,15
24:13 inconceivable intends 14:18 15:20,21,22,23 37:6,8,14,17
30:3,4,4 49:23 intent 14:14,17 16:3,5 19:2,22 37:22 38:2,4,5
31:1 independent 14:17 21:2 20:1,2 23:22 38:8,13,20
41:8 47:15 35:6 49:9 51:9 45:12 52:21 39:3,9,17,24
46:5 indicated 7:1 interest 22:19 53:10 40:16,17,22,25
53:21 18:25 49:5 22:22 31:12,14 judged 6:22 41:15,21 42:8
53:9,12 18:14 32:3 33:19 judgment 23:22 43:1,10,17,18
indifference 41:9 42:3,7 judicial 4:21 43:25 44:3,19
information 39:22 53:4,11,13,17 52:2,10 53:7
interfered 21:10 53:20 54:5 53:10,15,21
ins 52:6 involved 41:3 15:11 16:14,21 keep 20:11 44:6
51:7,8 instances 34:20 involving 22:2 18:9 19:7,8,13 12:8,18 19:8
52:9 53:17 27:25 32:15 23:5,7,11 24:1 26:2 37:22
35:5 23:24 44:9,13,16 25:1,7,12,23 39:3 53:15,21
41:9 intangible 4:6 50:3 53:18 26:1,5,13,17 kickback 8:2,11
7:2 12:4 14:11 issues 42:1 27:2,7,8,9,11 8:25 9:5,22
51:14 48:8,12 49:13 Jerome 18:21 31:9,21,25 31:12,18 34:7
49:15 job 39:2 45:24 32:10,19 33:7 34:8,9 42:4
intended 3:20 joke 35:17 35:2,10,16,23 14:7 28:24
40:19 lawyer-client looked 44:9 38:9,15,23 met 30:13
34:22 54:21 40:2,8 MICHAEL 1:19
52:21 leave 5:4 30:24 39:7 40:13 36:5,11,14,22 middle 53:25
11:14,19 left 19:3,6 36:11 loss 9:19 36:9,18 39:11,11,14,18 million 30:15
15:10 legal 31:23,24 37:1,4,11 39:25 40:1 31:7 32:7,25
22:12 31:25 48:3,17 lot 10:19 41:6,20 50:4,5 36:1
27:22 51:13 lots 15:24 50:7,14 51:14 millions 31:8
33:9 legislation 8:11 love 30:20 54:13,20 mind 16:7 20:11
40:4,11 legislative 14:1 lower 4:15 7:4 matter 1:13 4:17 35:13,14 42:19
45:23 48:14 29:18,21,24 9:14 11:9 minds 29:9
48:20 legislator 49:17 30:1 43:22 13:25 16:22 minimus 37:16
53:24 50:22 45:2 18:5,18 35:10 40:19 41:5
55:2 legislature loyal 30:4,9 43:6 35:11 55:15 minutes 51:22
Lemire 6:9,9 loyalties 30:6 4:5 6:2 9:5 40:2
let's 8:3 10:18 loyalty 8:24 9:3 16:3 20:13,19 40:22
35:15 44:7 48:9 49:10 43:11 45:22 moral 31:23
45:16 limited 34:8 mails 41:3 50:20 Morales 7:19
11:10 limiting 5:6,14 making 26:11 21:3 morass 4:15
17:8 5:15 8:3 9:24 36:3 meaningful 3:17 morning 3:4
26:3 33:15 35:5 management means 45:15 motion 18:13,16
32:1,12 line 9:1 32:22,23 23:9 meet 41:19 motions 52:7
33:2 33:1,3,4 40:24 manner 14:19 member 23:14 murder 10:3,4
41:14 41:23,25 44:6 margins 48:18 52:25 53:1
43:23 listen 42:20 MARK 1:4 membership N
46:6,16 litigants 16:1 market 10:25 49:21,21 N 2:1,1 3:1
48:4 little 25:7,8 massively 29:19 memory 48:21 naked 13:3
52:7 logical 22:8,23 29:21 mens 54:22 narrow 17:17
long 41:3 master 30:10,10 mention 50:20 National 18:3
look 15:23 16:22 30:11 merely 18:6 native 12:6
9:18 26:21,22 27:18 45:10 potentially 31:6
32:4 15:23 outlier 6:18 34:21 45:9 practical 13:25
51:9 19:25 outright 47:11 25:4,5,20 27:4 34:1
43:24 12:15 9:20 Petitioners 1:6 24:19
52:17 41:12 P 3:1 phrase 17:4 27:13,24
officer 43:7 page 2:2 53:14 20:24 46:5 presented 21:15
official 39:1 paid 19:23 picks 36:1 25:10 32:16
officials 19:11 paradigm 16:3 place 3:18 27:4
oh 30:20 38:17 part 10:7 12:19 playing 43:6 16:15 20:13
okay 35:19 40:2 18:14 55:4 26:23 18:25
13:4 once 26:19 52:3 22:4 27:5 pockets 9:1 3:25 6:7 7:4
open 5:4 10:21 pass 8:10 17:17 24:18 37:13 39:7
open-ended 52:18,19 7:20 10:12 49:17
opinion 6:12 payment 49:20 18:6 principal 4:2
20:22 22:11,14 pecuniary 49:19 26:12 32:9 principles 35:5
35:20 people 16:2 36:1 52:1 prior 53:2
11:16,21 26:7 36:10 Posner 15:15,19 14:6 19:10,15
52:4 26:21 person 8:23 9:1 15:21 20:1,2 20:8,19 27:17
oral 1:13 2:2 3:7 55:4 possibly 30:8,16 48:23 49:2
31:4 prototypical 24:3 recharacterized 51:17
12:5 proves 37:25 31:1 35:2 recognize 29:11 36:5,6 54:2
14:10,24 provide 30:9,12 39:25 40:3,9 recognized 6:1 reserve 23:25
19:17 provided 16:18 40:14 41:14 42:2 resolutions
43:25 provides 44:25 Radler's 23:18 record 14:1 23:18
45:2 raise 25:5 18:10 23:12 resolve 26:25
16:20 public 4:19 8:5 54:19 reenacted 35:17 37:5
43:24 16:1 19:11,15 raises 26:15 refer 30:3 31:22 Respondent
48:23 49:1,17 rea 54:22 referring 48:15 response 27:21
pudding 15:9 reaching 28:22 refresh 48:21 32:10 40:25
34:4 purposes 55:7 34:5,6 35:19 30:3 restriction
12:4 44:7 reads 40:9 4:5 return 4:17 6:7
21:2 real 10:22 43:3 related 39:12,14 returned 52:20
41:1 Q 44:18 39:17 reversed 4:8
49:25 quantifiable really 4:14 5:22 Relatedly 52:14 revisited 19:4
9:19 13:1 14:10,12 relationships right 11:13
22:7,8,16,22 15:23 21:4 remanded 20:1 rights 4:6 7:2
27:5,13,13,16 reasonable replete 48:13 28:4 29:13
31:11 32:21 reasonably 40:8 48:9,12,23
40:3 54:12,18 reasons 45:20 34:23 50:6
questions 23:25 REBUTTAL reputation risk 9:19 37:4
45:3 quickly 7:9 recall 15:12 request 16:11 ROBERTS 3:3
quote 53:18 receiving 44:5 required 53:2 11:11,19 16:14
31:21,25 scheme 16:24 31:22 41:8 sort 11:2,4 7:13,21 8:18
48:1 17:4 43:15,21 46:5 16:16 43:14 8:20 9:23 10:2
55:1 scope 42:1 47:18 53:22 Sotomayor 8:1 10:16 11:3,6
screen 51:15 set 20:21 25:15 8:10,17 10:7 12:21 13:11,13
48:17 36:22,25 37:11 53:5 43:25 44:3,19 24:8,18,21,22
sector 3:25 8:6 24:14 sounded 34:14 29:1,10,10,12
14:6 37:7 shows 25:9 source 32:20 31:6,10,11
see 16:23 35:13 significantly so-called 54:23 41:4 45:22,25
seemingly 8:12 55:7 speaking 54:15 49:10,24 51:18
select 7:15,23 52:25 48:3 statutes 17:13
45:23 34:10 42:5 situations 8:14 specified 55:9 statutory 27:5
46:19 47:2 26:15 27:9,13 squarely 17:7 47:11
26:23 selling 42:5 43:2 33:12 44:12 start 4:9 11:12
43:13,15 send 12:24 smother 27:6 state 5:23 10:20 steer 9:13
30:20,20 sense 8:7 25:1 solely 18:18 17:11 22:17,18 Stevens 15:12
34:7 40:6 32:6 40:12 21:10 32:1,14,17 41:15,22 48:20
46:23 senses 40:1 Solicitor 1:19 stated 14:15 Stevens's 20:21
separate 21:21 solution 4:13 statement 6:11 stick 38:18
10:1 13:8 separates 40:14 18:7 32:5 42:5 statements 8:17 striking 21:19
18:6 separating 42:24 43:6 States 1:1,8,14 submitted 55:13
22:11 36:23 50:22 3:5 20:24 55:15
25:1 Series 41:17 somersaults 22:20 30:15 subset 19:14
37:14,17 seriously 49:12 17:23 31:7 52:13 substance 36:11
39:24 services 13:19 son 45:4,5,6,7,8 status 29:16 47:16
23:1 24:13 Sorich 13:7 statute 3:15,18 substantial
29:15 30:3,4,4 sorry 27:10 4:18,22 5:7,11 40:12,17 48:23
30:9,12 31:16 45:12 5:15,20 7:8,12 49:1
46:16 technical 22:2 14:4 15:16 trunk 5:10 8:4 8:18
tells 6:18 25:16 27:4,25 16:7,17 17:6,7 34:22
48:13 35:7 37:10 Tuesday 1:11 universal 46:16
29:24 44:22 45:9,24 turned 53:18 41:13
39:10 47:14,14 49:4 53:13 12:23 32:9 unusual 28:6
31:6 42:19 19:6 U urging 39:12
15:3 13:13,20 16:13 51:22 52:20 unapplicable U.S 22:1
15:10 theft 52:15 tip 16:21 23:7 29:10 vague 3:15 4:18
21:19,19 theory 4:4,4 6:6 Title 16:25 31:5 33:25 5:7,12 7:8 8:12
38:24 6:7 7:1 12:15 today 24:6 51:17 45:19 12:21 21:16
20:14,17 31:10 44:22 53:4,13,20 54:6 46:18 55:10
16:17 8:7 19:1 29:8
37:18
49:18 16:15 30:5 53:18 32:16 46:6,9 value 11:25
34:14,15 38:17 tree 5:11 6:4 47:25 51:17 variety 51:15
33:7,17 54:4 55:9 troubled 44:12 47:3 versus 41:24
43:5 think 6:10,11 troublesome undisputed 48:23
36:9 53:24 0 7
Weyhrauch 08-876 1:7 3:4 7 47:10
wholesale 5:22 1 8
14:5 wires 41:3 1.4 32:25 816 15:16
16:9 wished 26:9 10K 9:15 840 15:21
20:15,17 wishes 28:1 10:16 1:15 3:2
wonder 26:20 100 10:13,13
31:2 16:23 11:18 55:14
32:13
42:9 world 41:17 18 16:25 20:23
49:24 55:5 1905 21:4
worry 51:2 2
writing 19:2 24 2:6
10:17
46:8 3 2:4
17:17 336 53:14,15,16
20:7 X 53:25
25:9 x 1:2,9 9:13,13 337 53:16
36:8,23 9:15 371 20:22
42:20
50:3 Y 4
years 43:23 51:7
$ 51 2:9
63 16:25
