IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
SALLY L. CONKRIGHT, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 08-810
PAUL J. FROMMERT, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 20, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:16 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ROBERT A. LONG, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Petitioners.
PETER K. STRIS, ESQ., Costa Mesa, Cal.; on behalf of
Respondents.
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
on behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ROBERT A. LONG, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
PETER K. STRIS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 28
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondents 50
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ROBERT A. LONG, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 61
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:16 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next this morning in Case Number 08-810, Conkright v.
Frommert.
Mr. Long.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT A. LONG, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. LONG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In this ERISA case, the court of appeals
applied a deferential standard of review to the
district court's interpretation of the Xerox plan, but
not to the plan administrator's interpretation. We
think the court of appeals got it backwards.
Under either a deferential standard of
review or a de novo standard, the plan administrator's
interpretation should prevail. That interpretation,
unlike the district court's interpretation, is
grounded in the language of the plan. It recognizes
the fundamental actuarial principle of the time value
of money, and it avoids conferring windfalls.
In Firestone and Glenn, this Court looked to
the language of the plan, which reflects the intent of
the plan's sponsor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. But -- but when the
administrator has interpreted the plan incorrectly and
the court finds -- the court of appeals finds that he
has interpreted it incorrectly, it doesn't have to
send it back and say, you know: Give me another bid;
try something else. It says: You did it incorrectly,
and we find that what you should have done is this.
Isn't that what normally happens?
MR. LONG: Well, we think under trust law,
which the Court has looked to in Glenn and Firestone,
where the plan of the settlor of the trust has
assigned the responsibility for making the
discretionary determinations to the plan administrator
or to the trustee, unless there's been a showing of
bad faith or some other reason to think that the
discretion will not be exercised honestly and fairly,
it -- it is really up to the plan administrator to
make that discretionary determination.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So all a court can do in
those trust cases is to say: You've got it wrong,
Sam; go back and do it again. Right?
MR. LONG: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And he gets it wrong again,
and he goes back to court; the court says: Sam, it's
still wrong; go back and do it again.
MR. LONG: Well, we --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I can't believe that that's
what the law is.
MR. LONG: We think these situations of
the -- of the multiple bites at the apple will be
rare. Trust law has had this rule for decades, and
that has not been a problem --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the SG says that
isn't trust law. The SG says that trust law -- when
you make a mistake and you send it back, that the
district judge has a choice here, which would make
sense. The district judge, if he thinks he's going to
get something out of the trust -- the administrator,
listens to him.
I mean, it sounds like common sense would
be: Listen to the administrator, but you don't have
to do it.
MR. LONG: Well, I --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because it's very
complicated. He may understand it.
MR. LONG: I'd -- I'd have a two-part
answer, Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, is she wrong? You're
saying if I look at those cases, I'll find --
MR. LONG: Well, I think, first, it would
be -- it would be quite unusual to say the standard of
review is up to the court, that it can be either --
JUSTICE BREYER: It's not -- it's not a
standard of review. It's -- he's trying to figure out
what the word "duplicative" means, okay? And the --
and the administrator did his best. He says it means
what it meant before, which is, like, 14 pages of
who-could-understand-it. Okay.
MR. LONG: Well -- well, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: And then it turns out that
that isn't what it means, and the district judge says:
That's affirmed. So now he says: Give me another
shot.
If it were me, I'd listen, but if I thought
this isn't really that great, I would try to figure
out something else. And then if I were a court of
appeals judge, I'd say it's up to the district court.
MR. LONG: But --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, luckily, the SG says
that is the law.
(Laughter.)
MR. LONG: Well, but Professor Scott, who
was the reporter for both the second and the first
Restatement --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. LONG: -- and whose treatise correlates
with the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Says it isn't the law.
MR. LONG: The section numbers correlate
exactly with the sections of the Restatement for which
he was reporter. If you look in section 187 of his
treatise, which correlates with section 187 of the
Restatement Second, the principle is that unless
there's been bad faith or some other reason to expect
that the trustee will not exercise the discretion
fairly and honestly -- I mean, there -- and there are
examples, illustrations 11 and 12. If -- if the
amount is unreasonably low --
JUSTICE BREYER: What about just that? He
came back, the administrator, I think, the second
time, with something that very closely resembled the
first time.
MR. LONG: Well, I think it's --
JUSTICE BREYER: And what about that for a
reason thinking he's not in that good of faith?
Go ahead.
MR. LONG: I think it's quite different,
with -- with respect, Justice Breyer. The -- the
reconstructed account methodology really looked to the
performance of a hypothetical account, but the -- what
we call the plan administrator's interpretation, the
interpretation that came up for the first time after
the Second Circuit, overruling the district court,
said, you know, this plan provision that clearly tells
you how to do it is actually invalid --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if there's no --
MR. LONG: -- because it wasn't properly
disclosed.
JUSTICE ALITO: If there's no bad faith,
then how many shots does the plan administrator -- who
I don't think is named Sam -- gets to --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE ALITO: -- to try to answer this
question?
MR. LONG: Well, we think the standard
is that if -- as long as there is discretion to be
exercised within the limits that would be set by the
court's opinion, absent a showing of bad faith or
other reason to think the discretion won't be
exercised honestly and fairly, it ought to be left to
the plan administrator, because that's what the plan
provides.
Now, I think --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Long, we're talking
in the abstract --
MR. LONG: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- referring to Scott, but
-- that this case -- what I took away from the Second
Circuit's opinion was the flaw here was not that the
method was no good if you had adequate notice; the
flaw was the people affected were not told in what is
the language of ERISA, in plain, simple language, what
their entitlement was. And that's -- that's the
problem, not that this method wasn't perfectly
satisfactory if you gave everybody notice. But the
Second Circuit said, you didn't give them notice.
Either it said nothing or it was totally ambiguous.
MR. LONG: Yes, and that's right at the
heart of the case, and you are quite correct. The
Second Circuit did say there was not adequate notice
of the reconstructed account methodology, but it's an
important part of our submission that the plan
administrator's interpretation on remand is
significantly different.
This is the way these offsets are typically
done. There's nothing hypothetical about it. You
take the lump sum that was actually paid to these plan
participants. You look to the annuity that could have
been purchased with that lump sum, using the annuity
rates that are put out by the Federal government, by
the PBGC.
This is the typical way this offset is
performed. This is -- falls within the safe harbor,
the chief actuaries have filed an amicus brief saying
this is quite typical, so this --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if -- if there were
information, but the -- the ERISA provision says that
you are supposed to give the summary description of
the plan "in a manner calculated to be understood by
the average plan participant."
MR. LONG: Yes, yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And all that the 1989
statement said was the amount the employees received
may be reduced, if they previously left the company
and received a distribution at that time.
MR. LONG: Yes. And the -- and the Second
Circuit did not decide this question of whether the
notice of the plan administrator's interpretation was
sufficient, and -- but we think there are very strong
arguments that it -- that it was.
I mean, first of all, it did describe the
circumstances in which there could be an offset, which
is what the statute and the regulation requires.
And, second, it is the law in the Second
Circuit, as elsewhere, that in a summary plan
description -- which is just that, a summary -- you
need not describe in detail every offset and every
actuarial adjustment. There are many such adjustments
in ERISA plans. They frequently apply to relatively
small numbers of participants.
If it were a requirement of the statute that
each of these be described in detail in a summary plan
description, you would risk defeating the purpose of
the summary plan description and invalidating many
ERISA plans across the country.
So we would urge the Court, strongly, not to
accept this argument that, oh, well, you know, if
the -- if the notice of the reconstructed account
methodology is inadequate, then it must also be the
case that the notice of this different -- I would say
"plain vanilla" kind of offset -- typical offset, must
also be inadequate. We don't think that is true --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why -- this is
important to me, whether the plan administrator was
interpreting the same language when this case was
remanded back down. Originally, he was simply
applying the methodology that had been specified in
1990, right?
MR. LONG: Yes. Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the court said that was
no good because you didn't give these people notice of
it. But that -- he had been applying that test not
since 1990, but since 1980. In other words, he had
taken that to be a reasonable interpretation of the
very summary language in -- in the plan itself, right?
MR. LONG: That is absolutely correct, and
at the time that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So when it went back, why
didn't he stick with that and say: Yes, they didn't
have adequate notice of that, but that is still a
reasonable interpretation of the original plan, even
before we specified that.
MR. LONG: When it went back on remand from
the Second Circuit the first time, the plan
administrator adopted a -- a new interpretation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. LONG: That is what I'm calling the
"plain vanilla" --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that. Why did
he do that? Inasmuch as the first interpretation was
not adopted in 1990, but it was adopted under the same
language that he is now interpreting in 1980, right?
He was applying it between 1980 and 1990. That's what
he thought he -- that's what he thought the plan meant
in all those years.
MR. LONG: Well -- and there was a provision
in the plan that specifically told him to do the
offset in this way, and the Second Circuit --
JUSTICE SCALIA: After 1990.
MR. LONG: Well, no. It was also in the
plan before 1990. It --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I didn't understand. I
didn't understand it.
MR. LONG: Yes. A lot of this case started
because it got dropped out of the 1989 restatement, by
accident, for a period of 3 months, and all of these
dire consequences are really flowing from that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, your -- your brief
says: "The Plan Administrator has consistently
applied the reconstructed account methodology since
the early '80s."
MR. LONG: Yes, that's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: "Effective April '90"
-- "1990, the Plan language requiring this methodology
provided as follows." So I took that to mean there
was no such language before that?
MR. LONG: There -- there was. Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There was plan language
requiring it before 1990.
MR. LONG: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. LONG: Yes, and that's another important
point in this complicated case. I mean, the only
period in which this -- what we call the reconstructed
account methodology that gave specific instructions
about how to do it, so we say it was not at all
unreasonable for the plan administrator to follow
those specific instructions.
It dropped out in this 1989 restatement for
a very short period and then got put back in. And
that's -- the Second Circuit said, well, then you get
into problems with anti-cutback and different types of
things, but --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But where is it --
what -- what was in the summary plan description on
this point between 1980 and 1990, where is that?
MR. LONG: There were a variety of summary
plan descriptions, obviously, and I think, in general,
Justice Ginsburg, they simply had the statement that
your benefit may be reduced, if you have received a
prior distribution.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Right. So there was no
description of this in the summary plan description?
MR. LONG: That's -- that is correct, during
that period, although, again --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So is it -- but what
period? Between 1980 and 1990 or the 3-month period
-
MR. LONG: It was --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- you're talking about?
MR. LONG: I think it was really in about
1995. The descriptions got gradually more detailed,
as we go into the 1990s, but through the '80s and up
into the -- I think until about 1995 or so, there
would have been simply a statement that your benefit
may be reduced --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. That's -- that's
what I thought, and I thought you said no when I asked
that question, that this detailed description of the
RAM didn't come in until 1990.
MR. LONG: Oh -- well, I'm sorry if I
misunderstood you, Justice Scalia. I was talking
about the language of the plan, and we are, after all,
talking about benefits due under the terms of the
plan. And the plan did include this specific
reconstructed account methodology, except for the
3-month period.
Now, the summary plan description had a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh -- oh, I see.
MR. LONG: -- had a much -- a much briefer
-- but, again --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I got you.
MR. LONG: An additional point on this,
Justice Scalia, is -- I mean, this is a claim for
benefits due under the terms of the plan, and, you
know, there -- there's actually a circuit split on
this. But if the claim is something like, well, a
summary plan description wasn't good enough; it didn't
contradict the plan, and it told me the circumstances
in which the benefits might be reduced, but it didn't
tell me how -- and, that's just not good enough.
Often, you have to make some sort of showing
of reliance and prejudice, so it's really --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you seem to be
rearguing the -- I thought that the -- I thought that
you had surrendered on -- what is it called? Frommert
I. That -- that the Second Circuit said: What you
had was no good, because it violated the notice
provision and it violated the anti-cutback provision.
So that's what they call a phantom --
MR. LONG: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- account. It's out.
MR. LONG: They call it phantom accounting.
Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's out. But you seem
to now be telling us that was really a wrong decision
on the Second Circuit's part, that there was -- that
it was perfectly good, that it was described in the
plan itself, although not in the summary plan
description.
MR. LONG: Well -- well, no, and I -- I
mean, what happened is for the plaintiffs in this
case, they were hired after the -- rehired after the
1989 restatement went into effect, and so that's when
this -- when this provision that specifically
described the reconstructed account methodology was
dropped out, and that's when all the trouble started.
The only reason I was mentioning the
reconstructed account methodology was trying to
address Justice Scalia's question, although I may have
confused it further to say that the plan, the terms of
the plan, did include this specific provision, so it
was not crazy for the plan administrator to be
following that.
Now, it was struck down by the Second
Circuit, invalidated, and the plan administrator is
not seeking to challenge that on remand; obviously,
they can't. But coming up with a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you claim -- you claim
that what he is interpreting when it comes back to him
is not the same text that they invalidated --
MR. LONG: Absolutely. It's the remaining
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- but rather it's the plan
without this text.
MR. LONG: Absolutely. It's the remaining
plan terms; there is a new interpretive question here,
which is: How do we make sense of the remaining plan
terms, now that the Second Circuit -- unlike the plan
administrator, unlike the district court -- has held
that this provision that specifically addresses this
is invalid and can't be used. And that is really a
new interpretive question that came up in litigation.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's -- it struck me if --
it's hard. I don't necessarily follow it at all, but
the -- you had this original plan where, basically,
you were trying to figure out how much money they took
away, and you compared it with what it would have made
if you had invested it in certain funds. So now we
have a new word, which is called "duplicative"; you
can't be duplicative, something like that.
And then the Second Circuit says that new
word called "duplicative" for new plans doesn't really
pick up this old phantom system; at least, it doesn't
give notice.
Now he sends it back, and the poor district
judge, since he thought that was perfectly sensible to
say it did pick that up, says: Well, they told me it
didn't, so I'll ask the administrator what do you
think we do now? The administrator says: I have a
great idea; the plain vanilla system. The plain
vanilla system happens to be very much like the old
system, except in following your own funds, you're not
doing it; you're following the -- the insurance
industry's funds.
MR. LONG: Well, --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, I mean, that's -- it's
what they'll pay for an annuity.
MR. LONG: Justice --
JUSTICE BREYER: And that's called -- that's
called their funds. That's called what they think
they'll earn.
MR. LONG: Well, I mean, just a couple of
points in response, Justice --
JUSTICE BREYER: Right.
MR. LONG: I mean, first of all, it's not
just the word "duplication" or "non-duplication."
Section 9.6, which is on page 32a of the Joint
Appendix, says that if there has been a prior
distribution, the accrued benefit based on all the
years of participation --
JUSTICE BREYER: Right.
MR. LONG: -- shall be offset by the accrued
benefit attributable to such distribution.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Correct, and the
question is: What is attributable to? And they
struck down your phantom system for doing it, and then
the administrator comes back with a new system, which
new system is going to take the judgment of the
insurance companies about what was accrued.
MR. LONG: Well, no, Your Honor, the
judgment of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
was what -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, fine.
And then what he's thinking is that's
awfully similar. We just substituted different people
here --
MR. LONG: Well, but -- but, I mean, it's
similar in a sense that I think is clearly favorable
to the plan --
JUSTICE BREYER: It's similar in a sense,
and it's different in a sense.
MR. LONG: I mean, if I could -- this is a
floor-offset plan, and the basic concept of the floor
offset plan is to give a kind of an insurance policy,
that if the defined contribution plan performs poorly,
the defined benefit component of the plan will
guarantee that you get a certain minimum benefit. And
so the way the thing works, if the defined
contribution balance is above the defined benefit,
then your defined contribution is your benefit. And
that's good. That means you have exceeded the floor.
And what happened here is -- this whole
thing -- we are calculating the defined benefit, the
floor. That's what we are doing, and we are trying to
figure out what sort of offset do you take into
account because these people got lump sums; in some
cases quite, quite large. Mr. Frommert got almost
$145,000 10 or 20 years ago.
So if -- the notion is, if Mr. Frommert had
continued working for Xerox throughout his career,
this money would have continued to grow; it would have
increased his defined contribution benefit; and he
would have not needed to use his insurance policy.
JUSTICE BREYER: But the -- the more you
hypothetically grow it, the less chance they'll get
the floor.
MR. LONG: But -- and the key point --
JUSTICE BREYER: And so they'd like it to
get the floor, and so they'd like it to be --
MR. LONG: Well, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right?
MR. LONG: But the key point, if I -- yes.
But the key point is he had the use of this money for
all these years.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's true.
MR. LONG: And -- and it is a fundamental
principle of pensions, of ERISA, that there is a time
value of money. And if you accept this interpretation
that the district court adopted, and then the court of
appeals said: Well, we will just give it deferential
review; we won't even give it de novo review, it's --
it's, you know, one reasonable interpretation among
many --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you saying it's -- and
these categories don't often help us. Is this a
question of law? A mixed question of law and fact?
MR. LONG: Well, I think, in terms of
whether this is a reasonable interpretation of the
terms of the plan, it is a question of law. And I
think it is unreasonable -- I mean, certainly, looking
at the plan language, there is plan language that does
speak to this, and then also, I mean, this --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The court of appeals said
it's just an application of equitable principles --
MR. LONG: Well, but --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- not an interpretation of
the plan.
MR. LONG: But it's a claim for benefits due
under the terms of the plan.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, yes.
MR. LONG: You know, I read you the
language. "Accrued benefit" is a defined term in the
plan.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's the statutory
term? "Benefits due under the terms of the plan" is a
statutory term?
MR. LONG: Yes. Yes. So, that -- that's
what we're talking about. The Solicitor General
agrees with us that if you're talking about the terms
of the plan, even if you're trying to fashion a remedy
for a violation of ERISA, that is still a de novo
review question, and there would be terrible problems
with uniformity of plan interpretation if you said,
oh, well, you know, it's just a discretionary kind of
review; let's let every district court interpret this
plan in its own fashion.
But -- but the notion of having --
essentially, what the district court's interpretation
does is to say we're going to have a zero interest
rate, which is -- I mean, the chief actuary's brief
says they have never in their entire careers, none of
them, have ever seen an ERISA plan that does that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Up until this time?
MR. LONG: Well, until the district court
said it was a reasonable interpretation of this plan.
And, in fact --
JUSTICE ALITO: If this is not a
discretionary decision for the district court -- let's
assume it's not a discretionary decision for the --
for the administrator. But if it's -- and if it's
also not a discretionary decision for the district
court, if what the district court is required to do is
to say what the plan means, what would you suggest
that the district court should have looked to, when
the -- the provision, the -- the plan language that
the district court has to look at is very bare bones?
MR. LONG: Well, but you -- absolutely you
start with the language, and we don't think it is
quite that bare bones. The section 9.6, which says
the offset is the accrued benefit attributable to the
prior distribution, and then section 1.1, which is the
definition of "accrued benefit," and that basically
says it is the normal retirement benefit payable at
normal retirement date at age 65 in an amount computed
in accordance with section 4.3.
And then 4.3 says the monthly benefit which
could be purchased with the member's transitional
retirement account -- that's the defined contribution
account -- as calculated using -- using annuity rates
established by the PBGC.
So it's not quite that bare-bones. But then
we would also say -- you would look to this notion
that the time value of money is an absolutely central
concept to pensions, and the notion of people would
have use of money for 10 years or 20 years at a
zero interest rate -- and indeed, it's -- it's even
worse than that because, I mean, ultimately this has
to be expressed in the form of an annuity.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, Respondents say that
this was a -- sure, it's a -- a benefit to them to
be -- to have this offset only by the amount that they
received and not take into account the time value of
money, but this was an incentive that lured them into
accepting employment again with Xerox.
MR. LONG: Well, with -- with respect,
Justice Alito, that is absolutely ridiculous. I mean,
no employer would do that to their current employees.
That would treat the current employees like suckers.
And it certainly didn't happen here. There's no
evidence that that happened. I don't know of any case
in which that has ever happened.
I mean, you can give people a bonus --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does it -- how does
it hurt the current employees?
MR. LONG: Well, if you --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You say they -- they
don't get this --
MR. LONG: If you said to the current
employees -- I mean, basically, Mr. Frommert, to take
him as an example, he's -- I mean, if someone who is
otherwise similarly situated to him had just kept
working for Xerox, they would not have needed the
insurance policy, either. Their defined contribution
account would have been above the floor, and so they
would get their defined contribution account.
Mr. Frommert had the use of all this money
for all these years. We don't know what he invested
it in, but presumably it grew in the investments. But
under the district court's interpretation, he --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So some kind of equal
protection, that another worker will say: I didn't get
that boon that my --
MR. LONG: Exactly. They'd say I've been
working --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there's no -- no --
nothing -- no deduction from the current workforce.
They're getting what the plan said all along is the
right calculation of benefits.
MR. LONG: Yes. And -- and that's what the
plan administrator's interpretation is trying to
achieve as closely as possible for the rehires. It's
trying to treat them the same.
If there are no further questions, I'd like
to reserve --
JUSTICE SCALIA: One -- well, I thought you
said what this affects is just the floor; it doesn't
affect the level of the -- of the defined
contribution.
MR. LONG: Absolutely, Justice Scalia, the
defined contribution. Now, in this case, for Mr.
Frommert, for example, was this large lump sum that he
got.
I mean, another fact I'll mention is that
Xerox stopped making additional contributions to this
defined contribution account in 1990, just when
Mr. Frommert returned. That's -- that's where this $5
thing comes from. His benefit, his defined
contribution benefit, was that large lump sum given
many years before a normal retirement date.
I'd like to reserve the balance.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Long.
Mr. Stris.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER K. STRIS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. STRIS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
After hearing Mr. Long, I'd like to address
my remarks to two broad areas.
First, I'd like to talk about why the lower
courts in this case were not required to defer the
legal principle. And then in light of some of the
factual claims he has made, which are belied by the
record and directly contradict the findings of the
lower court in this case, I'd like to explain why they
didn't defer.
Because sitting here, the irony to me is the
core focus of his position is that courts have
episodic involvement with these very complicated
plans, and yet, as I'll get to in my second point,
most of his position is predicated on things that are
directly contrary to the court in this case that was
on the ground that looked at these issues.
He wants this Court, which has even less of
an -- a typical and constant involvement with the
plan, to second-guess the lower court, but --
JUSTICE ALITO: But even if the -- even if
no deference was owed to the administrator, could you
explain why the task for the district court was not
then simply to interpret what the plan means?
What puzzles me about -- something that
puzzles me about the -- the two decisions by the
Second Circuit are (a) why this is remedial; why isn't
it just a reinterpretation of the plan; (b) where
their -- what do equitable principles have to do with
this; and why should it be a discretionary decision
for the district court? What does the plan mean?
That would be the issue. Isn't that the question, if
there's no deference due to the administrator?
MR. STRIS: Yes. To me, that's the most
difficult question in this case. I'm -- I'm glad we
are going straight to it. But then I'm going to go
back to deference just to make sure we don't lose on
that point, where I think we are squarely right.
Now to your question. Here's what happened:
Xerox made two arguments in the first round of
litigation. This is very important. Their first
argument was that a later plan applied retroactively.
They didn't want to apply the '89 plan.
Their second argument -- and this is -- here
are the best places where you can find it: Page 42a
of the petition appendix -- that's the Second Circuit;
page 75a and 85a of the petition appendix -- this is
where the district court said it. Their second
argument was that section 9.6 of the 1989 plan
permitted an appreciated offset, something more than
just a nominal offset. This was rejected as arbitrary
and capricious.
Now, the phantom account was rejected, but
so was the broad principle that there could be an
appreciated offset.
Now, here's the answer to your question,
Justice Alito: It would have been totally appropriate
at that point in time for the Second Circuit to say
there's going to be a nominal offset. We would have
been done. We wouldn't be here anymore.
But Xerox essentially made a fairness
argument. They said: Well, this is a scrivener's
error; we only left this out for 3 months -- which
isn't true, by the way. They left it out for 5 years.
But the court said: Well, if that's true
and if this is going to be windfall, maybe Xerox has
an equitable defense. This is an (a)(1)(B) claim
for -- under the terms of the plan, but they remanded
this to the lower court out of consideration for
Xerox, so that the lower court could look at equitable
principles and say: Well, since the plan doesn't
foreclose an appreciation, maybe under equity we
should have some appreciation.
And then what happened -- and this is the
irony -- is Xerox went back -- and this right out of
page 143a of the joint appendix -- they proposed an
offset that effectively is an undisclosed $16 million
appreciation. Here's why this is important: Their
phantom account in the first round, it was an
undisclosed $17 million appreciation.
They didn't come in and say -- they made
equitable arguments. If you look at their briefs,
they said: We're -- we're not saying that this is
what the plan means, but the plan has been
invalidated; we're going to make equitable arguments
of things that might be consistent with the plan.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, if I could
switch to the deference point. Let's say you have an
administrator who says I interpret this particular
provision to mean A; and he says but, if that's
rejected, there are these other provisions that should
be read to mean B. That goes up; the court -- the
rejects A.
Does the administrator get deference on his
reading of the other provisions B?
MR. STRIS: The position I -- I would take:
I think if they did them at the same time -- it's a
difficult question -- I think they would, because I
think if you give them at the same time and you admit
that there is an ambiguity, you're giving the court
options. You are saying: Defer to my judgment; I
think this is right, but here's the alternative.
What Xerox did here, and this is very
important: They made the strategic choice in round
one of this litigation to say we think there is one
option, it's terrible for -- for Petitioners --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but I think it's
kind of odd to say to the administrator: Look, if you
want discretion, you should make as many rulings as
you can possibly think of because then you'll get
discretion as to each of them. But if you only do
what's efficient and say here's how I read it, then
you don't get any discretion at all on the other
provisions.
MR. STRIS: No, I -- I don't -- well, I
guess I would give two answers to that. The first is,
in the first instance, if you seriatim said here are
12 different interpretations of the plan in ranked
order, I don't think you would get deference. I think
for efficiency's sake, like you say, we want
administrators to say: This is what we think the
interpretation of the plan is. I agree with you.
But in a rare case like this one -- where
Xerox's main point is: We screwed up; we left out the
provision -- I think the appropriate thing for Xerox
to do would have said: We think we can rely on it and
take this interpretation, even though we left out the
provision; but if not, then this is how we interpret
the plan. I'm not saying you would -- they would
definitely get deference, but at least there would be
an argument that there's a presumption of competence,
that there's efficiency.
Here, the standard trust law rule, which I'm
going to get to in a second, says: You staked your
ground, Xerox. You said that this is what you thought
the plan meant. We held that you were arbitrary and
capricious, not an -- not an honest -- not a small
procedural mistake. You -- you picked something that
was unreasonable, and now you want a second bite at
the apple.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you're saying
it's not just that they abused their discretion;
they're discretion abusers? You can't trust them on
the next provision?
MR. STRIS: No. Yes, I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We do that with the
district court. We get a district court, and we use
all of these pejorative terms -- "abuse of
discretion," "arbitrary and capricious," "clear error"
-- and we send it back for them to do the same -- you
know, they make -
MR. STRIS: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They're the
fact finder. Here, the plan administrator is the
primary interpreter.
MR. STRIS: And -- and this is the core
answer to your question: That is why the law, under
the common law of trusts, said that once there was a
finding by a court of abuse of discretion, it could
decide to defer.
I agree with Xerox. Ordinarily, the courts
would defer. Under ERISA, ordinarily, if there's
factual issues, they send it back.
Here, the court said, under these specific
facts, under this abuse of discretion, for a host of
reasons, not the least of which, Your Honor, is that
they are trying to take a fallback position on the
exact same issue, which the court expressly found in
this case.
They exercised their discretion not to
defer. The rule -- in order for Xerox to get reversal
on the first question, they have to convince this
Court that what the rule should be is that, not
that -- not -- we don't have to convince you that
there should be -- there shouldn't be deference in all
of these cases. They have to convince you that a
lower court never has the option, unless there's a
finding of bad faith, to say, yeah, I'm not going
to defer. And that's not the law.
This very Court, in 1888, in the Colton
case, which the government cites in their brief, and
we -- and we cite, there -- the trustee said: We're
not giving a benefit. The Court said: That's
arbitrary and capricious. This Court ordered the
lower courts to set the benefit. They never made a
finding of bad faith.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if this is a
discretionary decision for the court that finds the
initial abuse of discretion by the administrator, what
are the factors -- what are the relevant factors in
determining whether the administrator should get a
second shot and which ones are present in this case?
MR. STRIS: Okay. I'm -- I'm going to tell
you the factors that existed at trust law and in ERISA
and that I think they are right. One very important
factor is: Is it the exact same question? And here
it was. It was the same question. I disagree with
Mr. Long's characterization.
They took a position as an alternative on
the meaning of section 9.6 under this plan. Now, they
want to say, well, now, we're going to rely on
different provisions, in addition to the one we did
before, but, I mean -- Justice Scalia, to your
question earlier -- that would be like saying: Here's
a contract; I think that we -- I interpret this
provision looking at pages 1 and 2. You hold that I
acted in an arbitrary fashion. And I say, okay, I
want to interpret it again; I'm going to look at 1 and
2, but this time, I'm going to look at pages 7, 8, 9;
it's a new issue because I didn't consider those --
those points before. It's still the same question, so
that's one factor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not the same question.
When the court has held that 1 and 2 was, in effect,
not in the contract because you didn't give enough
notice of it. So now you have a contract without 1
and 2 in it.
MR. STRIS: Oh, I -- I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it's a different
question. What does this contract mean without 1 and
2? Now, you may have a different point, if -- if you
say that what -- and it seems to me you did say this,
that the court of appeal -- the court of appeals, not
only decided that there was no notice and, therefore,
this provision wasn't any good, but you claim that the
court of appeals also said that you cannot account for
the time value of money.
MR. STRIS: Yes, I -- I wouldn't exactly say
that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- now, that would be
a totally different case.
MR. STRIS: Yes. What the court of
appeal --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But I didn't read it that
way.
MR. STRIS: No. What the court of appeals
said -- now, actually, there's three things I'd like
to respond to, and I want to get back to the factors.
The court of appeals said the SPDs did not disclose an
appreciation.
The -- the court of appeals said that the
relevant provision in this plan, the only one that
would have applied time value of money was missing,
but I argue that the consequence of these things is
that you can't have a time value of money. So I am
going to get to that in a second.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a little different.
MR. STRIS: Now, to the last point you made
about it's a different issue. I think we're saying
the same thing. This is semantic. Yes, Xerox is
right, that the task was slightly different. The
first time, they interpreted what the offset should be
under the '89 plan, looking at a few things, and this
time, they said, oh, we were arbitrary, so, now, we
would like to resolve the same legal question, looking
at a few more things.
So, in one sense --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why -- why -- as I
understand it -- which big if -- you and I are both
working at Xerox, and in year 1 -- and we each have
500,000 in our contribution account, and you leave,
and you take the 500,000. I stay, and I don't. Okay?
Now, my 500,000 over the next 10 years is
going to grow somewhat -- as long as it wasn't 2007.
But it --
(Laughter.)
MR. STRIS: Or -- or you may spend it.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. I might spend it,
but if I leave it there, it would grow, okay. But
some -- some people leave it there, they grow.
MR. STRIS: During my time, it --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, when figuring the
floor, what Xerox does is look to see how much it
grew. They look at the whole thing, now, 10 years
later, and they say, you're up above the floor,
good-bye, we will give you this, not the floor, okay.
Now, you are in the same position, and you
happen to come back to Xerox, and all they want to do
is say, you know, we'd like to assume yours grew, too,
I mean, not -- a little, anyway, and the first thing
they wanted to do is to say it should have grown the
same way we treat our own guys, as it having grown.
And the court of appeals says that's wrong
because you left the words out, but send it back to
see it's fair. So then the expert comes in, and the
expert says, well, they didn't want to give us that
way to grow it; here is how -- we will assume it grew
like an insurance company, the most incredibly
conservative people in the world, how -- how they
would have treated it as growing, if you bought an
annuity right then, and that just gives us even a
lower number.
And -- and they want to say, why didn't you
at least listen to that, instead of coming to the fact
which is very, very unusual, it didn't grow at all, in
which case, you are eligible for the floor.
MR. STRIS: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: So I think that's why they
think it's either an abuse of discretion or you should
have listened more to the -- to the expert -- should
have done something else.
MR. STRIS: I -- I understand that entirely.
I'd like to say a few things. All of these points
would be very important if we were designing a plan in
the first place. I'm not suggesting that the result
in this case is what parties would bargain to in the
first instance, if they had all the information. I'm
not going to defend that.
The question here is Xerox left a provision
out of the plan, and now we have a problem. What are
we going to do? That's how we get to equity.
In fact, I think it would have been
appropriate -- if I were litigating the case at that
point, I would have argued you can't have an equitable
defense, you need to enforce the nominal offset, but
that ship has sailed.
So we go back on remand, and to -- to
Mr. Long's point about how it's standard to have an
actuarial offset -- take isclosure away for a
minute. It's not standard to apply the -- the time
value of money to the entire defined contribution
balance. I will not accept that characterization.
Under the principle of duplication, we
presented an alternative that used the time value of
money offset, but it applied it to the relevant
principle. Xerox didn't like that, so they -- they
advocated something else. Here's why it's relevant to
your question --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. What's
the relevant principle? Isn't it what the lump sum
was that he took out?
MR. STRIS: I don't think so. This is a
defined benefits plan, and -- you know, from a
regulatory standpoint, as this case comes to this
Court, it is a defined benefits plan. Section 9.6 of
the plan talks about non-duplication.
With no other information, if -- if you
force me to say, well, let's make an argument, what
are we going to think about non-duplication, we're
trying to say that we're not going to give you money
under this floor -- as you put it, Justice Breyer --
of the defined benefits plan, if it duplicates your
prior defined benefit payment.
What my clients got was from an entirely
separate plan, and it was a defined contribution plan.
They're integrated --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they chose to
take it out of that plan, right?
MR. STRIS: I actually think that's not
true. It's not clear from the record, but my
understanding is that most of my clients didn't --
didn't have that option.
Now, I'd like to get back, just for a
second, Justice Alito, to your question, because it
goes to the core of deference. Another very important
factor is, are there fact questions?
And this is important because you're
thinking about broad principle. This comes up in
ERISA all the time. I see this all the time. Even
after an abuse of discretion, courts regularly say, we
are going to send this back, because they're not going
to be in the business of holding evidentiary hearings
and looking at complicated fact questions.
So that's a factor that -- where you might
say, you know what? They abused their discretion, but
I'm sending it back. Not only was that not an issue
here, the lower courts explicitly held that they
waived this, they didn't want it sent back.
Another important factor is whether or not
it's a regulatory infraction --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Are you talking
about the court of appeals sending it back to the
district court, or are you talking about the district
court sending it back to the administrator?
MR. STRIS: I'm saying that, when the court
of appeals sent it back to the district court, the
district court never even considered sending it to the
administrator because there would be no reason to do
that. They didn't ask for it. This isn't one of those
cases, where there's -- it's a medical case, where you
need new evidentiary hearings on whether someone's
sick. This goes to Justice Alito's question of in
which cases, after an abuse of discretion, are courts
likely to defer? That's a factor where they are.
Let me give you another one. If you have a
minor procedural infraction -- and this case is
anything but -- the disclosures were wrong for 5
years, and contrary to Mr. Long's claim, this wasn't
missing from the plan for 3 months. This was missing
from the plan for --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, since that's a
fairly stark disagreement among counsel on a factual
matter, where in the record do you see 5 years?
MR. STRIS: Pages -- pages 29a and 30a of
the petition appendix. You have to read it very
carefully, and I know this stuff is boring, and I
apologize, but this is the first time that the offset
was reinserted.
It was in 1993, in section 1.45(f), that
Xerox finally put the offset back. Here's the
confusion. They keep referring to this 1990
amendment. The 1990 amendment, which is invalid, it
didn't put an offset back. It just put in the words
"phantom account." It was -- it -- it created a
phantom entitlement.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It put in the words
"phantom account"?
MR. STRIS: It put in the words "phantom
account," but the words "phantom account" were already
in the '89 restatement. If you look in -- at section
1.35, and it's in the joint appendix. It's page 19a
of the joint appendix.
This is the definition of "retirement
account." This is the account that actually applies
to my clients. There's a phantom account here. There
has always been the phantom account in the plan. They
removed the offset. So this -- the relevant thing is
the offset, and it's been gone for 5 years.
Now, to get back to this deference question
which I -- I think is important because these factors
matter. Let's take the Second Circuit. The Second
Circuit regularly defers after an abuse of discretion.
The U.S. points this out -- where do they point it
out -- page 23 of their brief. The Miller v. United
Welfare Fund case out of the Second Circuit does
precisely what Xerox says the Second Circuit
overruled. So, unquestionably, the Second Circuit
realized that it could defer, but it chose not to
here.
This wasn't a small procedural infraction.
This wasn't you have to decide in 30 days, and Xerox
took 33 days to decide. This was Xerox sending
personal benefit statements to people for 5 years that
said you're going to get $2,000, you are going to get
$3,000. The -- the summary plan description in this
case, it's on page 47a. It says the amount you
receive may also be reduced if you have previously
left the company and received a distribution at that
time.
Mr. Long gets up here -- and I understand
what he's saying -- he says, we have to disclose
everything in a summary plan description? How's it
going to be a summary? No, we suggest that you have
to say there is going to be some appreciation. You
have to do something to suggest to average plan
participants that there's going to be a 20 percent
interest rate, an 8.5 percent interest rate, that it's
going to apply to your entire distribution.
And that's what the lower court decided
here. They were there; they saw the facts; they found
that there was an abuse of discretion. And -- and
they said: You know what -- in this rare case -- and
it is rare in the Second Circuit -- they said in this
rare case, because of this particular abuse of
discretion that involves the same issue, that involves
statutory disclosure violations, that involved Xerox
trying to pay people $5.31 a month when they told them
they were paying them $2,300 a month, we're not going
to defer. And they went the extra mile.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We can handle those
facts --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: They have not had --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We can handle those facts
just as easily as the district court.
MR. STRIS: Of course.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We -- we don't have to look
at the witness's demeanor.
MR. STRIS: That's true. I wouldn't wish it
upon you.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, just because a
decision has some factual basis -- every decision has
some factual basis. That doesn't mean that -- that an
appellate court, including this one, can't decide the
questions.
MR. STRIS: I agree with you. It wouldn't
-- I wasn't suggesting the contrary.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you keep stressing
that -- you know, the district court was there and saw
these facts? That's fine --
MR. STRIS: Oh -- ohh -- here's why I
think it's -- I was unclear. Here's why I think that
is important. The law at trust law was that there is
a bright-line rule. The bright-line rule was, once
there is an abuse of discretion, the court gets to
decide will you continue to defer. Xerox isn't coming
before you and saying that the court of appeals here
abused its discretion in choosing not to defer.
They're advocating a bright-line rule that says a
court must defer unless there is a finding of bad
faith. And so my point --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But defer doesn't
mean uphold in every circumstance, does it?
MR. STRIS: No. Defer means if it was --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay, well, then I
don't think it's proper to say they can choose not to
defer. They can defer and -- and choose to find it's
still an abuse of discretion.
MR. STRIS: Oh, that's true, Your Honor, but
that's flatly not happened at trust law. If you look
at the cases that the government cites on -- in their
brief, it's pages 17 and 18. They cite a host of
cases.
If you look at the Colton case, if you look
at the quote directly from the leading Bogert
treatise, there are many cases like this one where the
court said: We're not going to give you a second
chance. We're -- not just that we are going to listen
to you and not -- and not give you deference -- we're
going to listen to you and disagree; we are not going
to listen to you.
And that's the rule that we and the
government are advocating. It was the law at trust
law and out of Fidelity to Glenn and Firestone.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just so I
understand, there are two different views. One is we
are going to listen to you, and we may not agree with
you. And the other is we're not even going to listen
to you. And you are arguing for the second rule. You
think the proper way to approach this is saying we
don't care, plan administrator, what you think.
MR. STRIS: May I answer that?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, sure.
(Laughter.)
MR. STRIS: Okay. I didn't want to be
presumptuous.
I would characterize it slightly
differently. I would say that under the first rule,
you listen and if you think it's reasonable, you maybe
consider as a factor where the line of reasonableness
is, but you reject it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. STRIS: I'm saying that was not the law,
that has never been the law. The law is, once there
has been an abuse of discretion, the court has the
right to say we're going to decide for ourselves, we
are going to decide what's reasonable, and if you
characterize that as not listening to you --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They don't even need
to accept a brief from the plan administrator --
MR. STRIS: I don't think it would ever
happen, but that's how it worked at trust law. They
wouldn't have to. But I think courts are more
reasonable than that.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Roberts.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS,
FOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING RESPONDENTS
MR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
When a plan administrator has abused its
discretion in construing plan terms, courts are not
required to defer to the plan administrator's fallback
interpretation of the same terms. That rule follows
from trust law, and a contrary rule would undermine
ERISA's protections for plan participants. It would
reduce incentives for administrators to interpret
plans reasonably; it would discourage participants
from challenging unreasonable benefit denials; and it
would make employers less likely to draft clear plans.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if I don't think it's
the same terms?
MR. ROBERTS: If you don't think it's the
same terms, that would present a -- a different
question about whether deference was required. But
still deference would have been inappropriate here,
because the fallback interpretation by the plan
administrator presented the same notice problems that
the original phantom account interpretation had
provided, because the summary plan description didn't
provide notice that there would be an appreciated
offset.
But the rule that the court of appeals
adopted was that deference was not required when it
was the same terms, and the court of appeals found
that. I don't think this Court needs to -- in
resolving that, to decide whether it was the same
terms here. We think it -- it was, because the -- the
Petitioners made two argument in defending their
initial benefits determination. One was we can apply
the post-1998 terms, and the other one was, even
applying the 1989 plan, that authorizes use of the
phantom account, because of the non-duplication of
benefits provision. And now they have come back on
remand and they're saying well, no, we're now reading
the non-duplication of benefits provision differently.
And that's the -- that's the same plan terms.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about the
hypothetical I asked your friend? You know, this is
how we read the provision, reading A, and we
recognize there's some ambiguity there, and if a
court disagrees with it, our -- our second reading is
-- is B.
MR. ROBERTS: No. We --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No deference on B?
MR. ROBERTS: We think there would be no
difference on B if it was just a second reading of the
same -- of the same term. Under that logic --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does that make
sense? I mean, don't you want the administrators to
give you their best -- best understanding?
MR. ROBERTS: You want the administrators to
give their most reasonable interpretation, but under
the logic of letting them be able to put the first
interpretation there, they could just put a list of 10
interpretations --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, they can --
MR. ROBERTS: -- starting with the one
that's most favorable.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They can -- they can
take it to the extreme. But if it looks like a good
faith effort, to say -- you know, it's tough to
interpret and administer these plans, and they say,
this is what we think it means, but we're human; maybe
we made a mistake. And this is --
MR. ROBERTS: Then a court might choose to
defer if it thought there was no reason to think
that there was -- that there was a reason to suspect
that they're just trying --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're being careful not to
not to say "bad faith." There was no bad faith here?
MR. ROBERTS: No, they wouldn't have to find
bad faith.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm looking for -- I'm
still not sure of the standard.
MR. ROBERTS: The standard would be --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm the district judge,
and I want to defer in -- in case A and not in case B.
What -- what's the difference?
MR. ROBERTS: Ordinarily, if we are talking
about they have put forward an interpretation, now
they want to put forward a fallback interpretation,
generally, if -- generally, if they have -- haven't
put that forward before, we think that deference
wouldn't be appropriate, because they had the
opportunity to address the issue, and the
unreasonableness of the initial interpretation
suggests that they may not act reasonably on remand.
And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So one strike and
you're out?
MR. ROBERTS: No. According --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, that's
assuming, it seems to me -- it makes sense if there's
bad faith.
MR. ROBERTS: According --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, you make
fallback arguments. You're here and say this is how
we read this, but if you don't agree with it, this is
how we read it.
MR. ROBERTS: That's right, and -- but there
are -- there are concerns here about undermining
ERISA's protections for plan participants that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Roberts, I thought
you said in this -- in this case -- and we're only
dealing with this case -- there was the same basic
problem, the same flaw in the second interpretation.
And you said in both cases, they wouldn't satisfy
ERISA's notice requirement.
MR. ROBERTS: That's right. Because ERISA
requires the summary plan description to identify any
circumstances that will result in an offset, to
describe the offset in a manner calculated to be
understood by the average plan participant, and not to
minimize the significance of the offset.
JUSTICE ALITO: Then I don't understand what
the purpose of the remand from the Second Circuit to
the district court, after the Second Circuit's first
decision, was.
In other words, you're saying that they --
they found that anything other than an offset for the
amount of money that was actually received by the
beneficiary upon leaving Xerox would be -- would
violate the notice requirements.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I don't --
JUSTICE ALITO: So that interprets the plan.
There's nothing left to do, then.
MR. ROBERTS: I don't know that the -- that
the court of appeals actually found that the first
time around. Our point is that that was the
consequence of the lack of notice that was in -- in
the summary plan description.
JUSTICE ALITO: I understand you to be
saying that the concept of any appreciation of that
amount based on the time value of money is invalid,
because there wasn't proper notice for that. So
there's nothing left to do on remand, it seems to me.
I don't understand what the purpose of the
remand was.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I -- we -- we think in
most cases, it would have been an abuse of discretion
for the district court in light of the lack of notice
in the summary plan description to apply an
appreciated offset. But the district court also did
consider the reasonable expectations of the plan --
plan participants, and there might have been other
countervailing considerations that could have been
advanced by the -- the plan administrator, perhaps,
about the financial solvency of the plan or some other
matters, but -- but those weren't presented here.
The point is that, once the court -- when
the court remanded, the first task for the district
court on remand was to look at the plan terms because
this was a benefit action, determine whether those
plan terms addressed how to calculate the offset, but
here, the court couldn't rely on the plan terms,
really, for two reasons.
First, as the district court said, the plan
said virtually nothing about how to do it; and,
second, the point that I was making before, ERISA
prohibited the court from adopting an interpretation
that provided for more than the -- an offset greater
than the face value.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, in principle, if -- if
we accept your argument, if other retirees who are
later rehired bring a lawsuit in another court, you
might have a different result because it would be up
to the -- up to that court to decide what was -- what
was a proper result, right?
MR. ROBERTS: In the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the consequence of
not deferring to the plan administrator. You have --
MR. ROBERTS: If the plan -- if the plan
terms -- in an ordinary case, if there was an abuse of
discretion in interpreting the plan terms, the plan
terms would still address the issue. There wouldn't
be an additional violation of ERISA's notice
requirement.
This is a unique case, in the sense that,
here, you've got not just an arbitrary -- an
unreasonable interpretation of the plan terms, but
you've also got the problem of the lack of notice in
the summary plan description, and you've also got the
problem that the plan terms are really silent on this
issue.
They just don't say anything about how to
calculate the offset.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's a pretty big windfall
for people. You're working at Xerox, and your plan is
about approaching the minimum level -- let's quit and
then go invest it, and then come back 3 days before
you're bound to retire, and then you're going get
whatever the plan grew, and you'll also get your
minimum.
MR. ROBERTS: I don't think it's a windfall,
Your Honor, because it depends on what the employees
were promised when they were deciding whether to come
back.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why would anyone
promise them that kind of a deal?
MR. ROBERTS: Well -- first of all, when
you've got a defined benefit plan and defined
contribution plan, there's no requirement in ERISA,
and employers frequently -- or at least, sometimes,
would not offset the defined contribution benefits
from the defined benefit plan, and even in a floor
offset arrangement, where they would, an employer
could provide less than the full amount --
JUSTICE BREYER: What about -- a bit more
serious question -- I mean, that is a serious
question, but the more general question, what about
something that is analogous to Skidmore deference?
MR. ROBERTS: Oh, God.
JUSTICE BREYER: So you say --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: You say -- you take the --
the district judge here can take -- takes the
administrator's opinion for what it's worth.
MR. ROBERTS: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: He has to listen to it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can we go back to the urns?
(Laughter.)
MR. ROBERTS: Well, that's essentially --
that's essentially the -- the principle that we're --
that we're talking about --
JUSTICE BREYER: That is essentially the
principle, I thought.
MR. ROBERTS: The court's not required to
apply its use of discretion and --
JUSTICE BREYER: But he does have to read
it. He has to read it --
MR. ROBERTS: -- review again.
JUSTICE BREYER: Read it, and take it for
what it's worth.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if --
MR. ROBERTS: Well, it's -- I think any
responsible district court would -- would do that.
JUSTICE BREYER: You don't think they
would -- you think they would do that?
MR. ROBERTS: They would do that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Okay.
MR. ROBERTS: Of course.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you disagree with
Mr. Stris. Do you think the district court should
listen to what the plan administrator has to say?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I think that, in trust
law, that -- under the principles of trust law, that
Mr. Stris is correct, that the district court has
the -- the -- the court would have discretion to
formulate the remedy and could direct the trustee --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it -- is it --
Mr. Roberts, is it a remedy? So that's -- one thing
is you can view this as the district court as
substitute interpreter of the plan, or another way you
can look at it is to say, the -- the benefit
determination was wrong, we reject it, the court
rejects it. So, now, there is a remedy for that
wrongful determination. So is this, what's going on
in the district court, an interpretation of the plan
or a remedy for a wrongful determination?
MR. ROBERTS: In a benefits action, the
first question is to interpret the plan, but what you
have here is a plan that is silent and a plan that --
where interpreting the plan to provide for a certain
kind of offset, there is inadequate notice in the
summary plan description, so there's a violation of
ERISA.
So, in this circumstance, not ordinarily,
whenever there's a misinterpretation of the plan, but
in the circumstances here, it is a remedial decision
because the court has to fill the gap in the plan
that's the result of the silence of the plan.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we interpret gaps in
-- in documents all the time. That's part of
interpreting a document, figuring out what it provides
for in a lot of situations that it does not explicitly
cover. I don't know why that isn't interpreting the
plan.
MR. ROBERTS: When -- the analogy here is
to the trust law situation, where trusts -- where --
where courts modify the terms of a trust because the
terms are illegal or there's a change of
circumstances, like the cy pres doctrine.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Thank you.
Mr. Long, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT A. LONG, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. LONG: The remaining plan terms are not
silent. Section 9.6 says that the offset should be
the accrued benefit attributable to the prior lump-sum
distribution, and that's an annuity payable at age 65.
So there is plan language.
It's -- it is not completely unambiguous,
but the plan is certainly not silent, and the
Solicitor General, in its brief on the merits to this
Court did -- retracted that suggestion that the plan
was silent.
On this question of the 1990 amendment and
when the -- the reconstructed account methodology that
the Second Circuit said was invalid got put back in,
pages 66a and 67a of the appendix to the petition
shows that that got put back in, in 1990, and not
later.
On trust law and what trust law shows,
obviously, the Court will have to sort it out, but we
stand with Professor Scott, with his treatise, which
is key, to the Restatement Second, which was in effect
when ERISA was adopted. Section 187 of his treatise,
which correlates with section 187 of the Restatement
Second, we think supports our approach that, unless
there is bad faith or the trustee is acting outside
the bounds of discretion -- and the court will get the
trustee within the bounds of discretion, but unless
there is some reason to think the trustee can't fairly
and honestly exercise the discretion, the terms of the
trust assign that responsibility to the trustee, and,
therefore, the trustee should exercise that
discretion.
And then, finally, on this question of
notice and whether there was adequate notice, not of
the reconstructed account methodology, but of the
plain vanilla annuity, the ordinary way this is done,
we would urge the Court not to accept these
representations that, oh, it's just the same question;
if the notice for one is inadequate, the notice for
the other must also be inadequate.
I mean, there's actually Second Circuit law,
the McCarthy against Dun & Bradstreet case, that holds
that a summary plan description does not have to
completely explain how you do every offset and
actuarial adjustment. There are so many of them.
Many of them apply just to relatively small groups of
people, including this one that we're talking about.
There are 14,000 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the court of appeals
held that this one was inadequate because it did not
say that you were going to take into account the time
value of money. If that's the reason it held that
this one was bad, the same reason would apply to the
plain vanilla.
MR. LONG: Well, if the court had actually
held that -- I mean, I would urge you not to read the
court's opinion that way. I mean, I think, if it held
that, I think that would be a mistake because there --
there are -- you know, it's just so typical that you
have actuarial adjustments in pensions and in -- and
in general.
I mean, people don't expect to take out a
mortgage on a house for 20 years and pay no interest
or buy a bond from the Treasury for 20 years and
receive no interest. So I think, if it's going to be
the ordinary, plain vanilla way this is done, the PBGC
way, the safe harbor way, it may be sufficient -- may
very well be sufficient to simply --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Long, would you --
would you explain your position on the picture we were
given of these people who were rehired and -- and they
get, periodically, a statement that says, you are
going to get 2,000-some-odd dollars; and then, 5 years
later, they get a statement that says, no, it's only
$5.18, or something like that.
MR. LONG: Right, and -- and those
statements, which are non-plan documents, said
there -- there may be an adjustment or there will be
an adjustment for prior distributions. And in a case
like Mr. Frommert's, that's the $5 case, the reason
it's $5 is because his entire defined contribution
benefit virtually came from that large lump sum.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And not even about why --
why it was $5. It's why did he get notices that gave
him the perception he was going to get over 2,000 when
it was so much less?
MR. LONG: Well, because those -- those
particular forms, which again are not plan documents
and he really should show individual reliance and
prejudice, didn't do the calculation. He got another
document that did do the calculation, and that's when
this started.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:18 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
65:17 60:18 12:21,21 22:10 anti-cutback 40:19 53:17
24:18 63:14 64:4 advanced 56:5 anyway 39:11 33:17 34:5
27:15 actuaries 10:4 advocated 41:8 apologize 44:3 35:15 36:13
40:5 additional 16:3 affect 27:13 4:3 6:17 22:11 argue 37:25
43:14 27:20 57:9 affirmed 6:12 22:24 37:4,7 argued 40:20
46:7,10 address 17:15 age 24:25 61:24 37:17,20,22 arguing 48:24
48:3 28:8 53:18 ago 21:14 39:14 43:3,7 argument 1:12
55:23 57:8 agree 33:3 34:17 47:17 51:5,7 2:2,10 3:3,7
addressed 56:12 47:6 48:22 55:11 63:18 11:12 28:4
47:18 adequate 9:5,15 agrees 23:15 1:14 30:18 33:12
12:10 63:3 ahead 7:21 appellate 47:4 41:19 50:3
41:3 adjustments 24:8 25:15,22 44:1,17,18 arguments
56:22 11:3 64:4 29:2 30:13 62:9 10:20 29:21
administer 35:18 42:10 apple 5:5 33:21 31:13,16 54:5
11:13 5:16 6:6 7:15 36:5 41:5 13:15 29:23 51:21
14:5 8:10,21 11:19 ambiguity 32:6 37:24 41:6 assign 62:24
16:22 12:15 13:14 51:23 applies 44:20 assigned 4:12
21:12 14:7 17:18,21 ambiguous 9:12 apply 11:4 29:24 Assistant 1:19
18:10 19:4,5 amendment 41:1 46:4 assume 24:10
27:21 20:8 24:11 44:8,8 62:6 51:12 55:25 39:10,18
31:10 29:3,14 31:20 amicus 1:21 2:8 59:11 63:15,22 assuming 54:1
38:17 31:25 32:14 10:4 50:4 applying 11:22 attributable
34:10 35:20,22 amount 7:13 12:2,23 51:14 20:4,6 24:21
43:5,9 49:1,20 10:13 24:25 appreciated 61:23
62:7 50:8,25 56:5 25:17 45:17 30:6,11 51:3 authorizes 51:14
57:4 60:2 55:4,17 58:15 56:1 average 10:10
33:2 50:14 analogy 61:11 31:3,4,9,11 avoids 3:22
23:8 administrator's 19:13 25:5,14 55:16 a.m 1:13 3:2
61:23 3:14,17 8:1 39:22 61:24 approach 48:25
10:18 63:5 62:18 B
32:1
52:2,4 35:16 41:24 49:20 62:3 48:9 53:10,10 9:15 10:17,25
45:14 50:16 briefer 15:25 54:12,13 57:6 12:14 13:3
5:10 7:15 60:12 61:23 bright-line 64:23,24 65:15 17:21 18:9,22
12:8,13 65:1 47:14,14,19 65:16 29:8 30:2,14
17:25 benefits 15:19 bring 56:23 cases 4:20 5:24 45:2,3,6,7,8
20:8 16:5,10 23:4 broad 28:9 21:13 35:7 46:9 54:24
31:6 23:11 27:4 30:10 42:14 43:11,14 48:6 62:8 63:10
37:19 41:14,16,23 business 42:18 48:8,11 54:15 Circuit's 9:4
40:23 51:12,16,18 buy 64:8 55:23 17:2 54:25
58:12 60:18 categories 22:16 circumstance
44:6,9 best 6:6 30:1 C central 25:9 47:23 60:25
51:16 52:8,8 C 2:1 3:1 certain 18:19 circumstances
58:5 bid 4:5 Cal 1:17 21:3 60:21 10:22 16:9
62:8,10 big 38:15 57:20 calculate 56:12 certainly 22:21 54:19 61:2,15
35:9,17 bites 5:5 25:5 54:20 challenging claim 16:4,7
53:3,3,5 Bogert 48:10 calculating 21:9 50:16 17:24,24 23:4
62:19 bond 64:8 calculation 27:4 chance 21:21 30:23 37:6
bones 24:17,20 65:9,10 48:13 43:19
41:3 boon 26:23 16:20,23 characterizati... clear 34:5 42:6
Bradstreet can't 38:1 24:1 28:2,6 closely 7:16 27:7
Breyer 5:8,19,22 33:18 34:5 33:22 34:2,9 48:9
26:10 6:25 7:3,14,19 care 49:1 43:22 44:12 31:12 39:9
2:4,6,8,12 20:2,5,14,21 careful 53:2 50:1,6 51:20 comes 17:25
28:5 61:20 21:20,24 22:2 carefully 44:2 52:2,6,14,17 20:8 27:23
19:25 58:21,23 59:2 28:11,15,22 32:10 common 5:15
21:2,3 59:8,12,15,20 29:16 33:4 choose 48:1,2 34:14
59:23 34:25 35:12,23 52:23 companies
24:21,23 brief 10:4 13:13 37:12 40:2,12 choosing 47:18 20:10
25:2,16 24:1 35:12 40:19 41:15 chose 42:3 45:9 company 10:14
35:14 45:5 48:7 43:11,17 45:6 circuit 8:3 9:11 39:19 45:19
46:8,10
21:1,5,6,18 35:11,14,15,19 decades 5:6 41:2,14,16,23
27:14,16,21,24 37:13,17,20,22 34:16 45:12,13 58:9,9,12,13
14:3 42:1 58:10,12 43:3,4,5,6,7,8 49:17 51:9 definitely 33:11
42:19 64:25 46:5,20 47:4,9 56:25 definition 24:23
55:16 35:7 51:24 52:23 decision 17:1 Department
12:6 13:17 61:3 62:4,13 deduction 27:2 17:3,11
55:13 60:5 63:24 defend 40:14 11:1,8,9 14:15
correlate 7:4 courts 28:11,18 defending 51:11 14:23,23 15:14
62:17 42:16,23 43:14 40:21 17:5 45:16,23
counsel 31:18 61:13 32:7 34:16,18 55:14,25 57:15
56:2 61:16 65:13,14 8:18 23:24 45:9 46:15 descriptions
56:4 64:1 47:24 48:2,2 designing 40:10
couple 19:18 crazy 17:18 53:10 detailed 15:7,14
3:10,11,15,23 current 25:23 33:11 35:6 determinations
22:24 23:21 D deferential 3:12 difference 52:4
37:1 24:15,17 28:7 50:3 deferring 57:4 different 7:22
29:1,4,12 30:4 days 45:12,13 defined 21:1,2,4 14:12 20:16,22
47:7 31:23 32:6 de 3:17 22:12 23:8 25:4 37:2,12 38:3,5
48:21 distributions effectively 31:8 essentially 23:24 45:1
56:24 64:23 efficiency 33:13 30:17 59:5,6,8 facts 34:21 46:6
5:11,12 6:11 efficient 32:18 ET 1:3,6 factual 28:13
19:1 22:10 either 3:16 6:2 evidence 26:1 47:2,3
48:10 29:4,12 30:4 employees 10:13 exactly 7:5 62:22
59:25 43:8 46:20 26:10 58:3 example 26:11 faith 4:15 7:9,20
54:25 55:24 58:14 examples 7:12 47:21 52:19
60:1,5,10,16 employment exercise 7:10 fallback 34:23
documents 61:6 46:4 64:25 existed 35:25 fashion 23:16,22
doing 19:9 20:7 41:25 expectations favorable 20:19
8:16,19 dollars 64:17 44:11 expert 39:16,17 Federal 9:25
draft 50:17 episodic 28:19 40:6 Fidelity 48:19
34:5 dropped 13:10 equal 26:21 explain 28:15 figure 6:4,15
35:1 14:9 17:12 equitable 22:25 29:4 63:13 18:17 21:11
40:5 due 15:19 16:5 29:10 30:23 64:14 figuring 39:3
43:14 23:4,11 29:14 31:1,13,16 explicitly 42:23 61:7
46:7,11 Dun 63:11 40:20 61:8 filed 10:4
48:3 duplicates 41:23 equity 31:3 expressed 25:14 fill 61:3
50:9 duplication 40:17 expressly 34:24 finally 44:6 63:2
57:7 19:22 41:4 ERISA 3:11 9:7 extra 46:15 financial 56:6
60:6 duplicative 6:5 10:7 11:4,10 extreme 52:18 find 4:7 5:24
18:20,21,23 22:8 23:17 30:1 48:2 53:4
D.C 1:8,15,20 24:3 34:18 F finder 34:10
23:20 E 54:17 56:17 fact 22:17 24:7 35:9,17 47:20
E 2:1 3:1,1 58:10 60:24 27:19 34:10 findings 28:14
35:19 earlier 36:10 62:16 39:25 40:18 finds 4:3,3 35:19
14:21 earn 19:17 54:10,16 57:9 factor 36:2,18 Firestone 3:23
20:4 easily 46:20 error 30:19 34:5 42:12,20,25 4:10 48:19
45:19 effect 17:9 36:20 ESQ 1:15,17,19 43:15 49:10 first 5:25 6:23
61:24 62:15 2:3,5,7,11 factors 35:21,21 7:17 8:2 10:21
19:21 Fund 45:6 God 58:20 handle 46:16,19 I
29:21,22 fundamental goes 4:24 31:23 happen 25:25 idea 19:6
32:22,23 3:21 22:7 42:11 43:13 39:9 49:22 identify 54:18
38:8 funds 18:19 19:8 going 5:12 20:9 happened 17:7 illegal 61:14
40:11,13 19:10,16 23:25 29:17,17 21:8 26:1,2 illustrations
49:8 further 17:16 30:15,22 31:16 29:20 31:5 7:12
54:25 27:9 33:15 35:9,24 48:5 important 9:17
56:9,15 36:7,14,15 happens 4:8 11:19 14:2
60:19 G 38:2,20 40:14 19:7 29:22 31:9
general 1:20 46:2,4,14 hear 3:3 47:13
27:12 14:18 23:14 48:12,13,15,15 hearing 28:8 inadequate
40:2 58:18 62:3 48:22,23 49:16 hearings 42:18 11:14,17 60:22
58:13 64:5 49:17 57:24 43:12 63:8,9,19
53:15 64:9,17 65:4 held 18:10 33:17 50:23
14:14,19,22 21:7 37:6 help 22:16 include 15:20
16:22,25 26:4 good-bye 39:7 he's 5:12 7:20 including 47:4
54:11 60:8 9:25 35:12 hold 36:12 incorrectly 4:2,4
39:7,17 41:21 ground 28:23 Honor 11:24 10:7 40:13
51:7 55:3 52:8,10 grounded 3:20 48:4 49:25 infraction 43:1
given 27:24 groups 63:15 58:3 65:12 43:17 45:11
gives 39:22 38:20,25 39:1 house 64:7 51:12 53:19
16:16 glad 29:16 grown 39:12,13 hurt 26:5 instructions
26:10 Glenn 3:23 4:10 guarantee 21:3 hypothetical 14:5,8
27:17,22 48:19 Guaranty 20:12 7:25 9:21 insurance 19:9
15:8 29:17 guys 39:13 hypothetically 26:14 39:19
H
46:3,3 26:19 13:13,18,23 46:18 53:2,6,9 leading 48:10
involved 46:12 14:1,14,19,22 kept 26:12 leave 38:17,25
31:20 28:19,25 15:24 16:2,4 62:15 leaving 55:5
36:11,14 involves 46:11 16:14,22,25 kind 11:16 left 8:20 10:14
52:20 46:11 17:15,24 18:4 20:25 23:20 30:19,20 33:5
61:5 irony 28:17 31:6 18:14 19:12,14 26:21 32:14 33:8 39:15
issue 29:13 20:2,5,14,21 know 4:5 8:4 55:9,19
8:1,2 9:18 34:24 36:16 21:20,24 22:2 11:12 16:6 legal 28:12
12:4,11 38:5 42:22 22:6,15,24 22:13 23:7,20 38:11
22:9 46:11 53:18 23:2,6,10 24:4 26:1,18 34:7 letting 52:11
23:2 57:8,17 24:8 25:15,22 39:10 41:14 let's 23:21 24:9
24:6 issues 28:23 26:4,7,21 27:1 42:21 44:2 31:19 41:19
27:6 34:19 27:11,15 28:2 46:8 47:9 45:2 57:22
50:11 it's 7:18,22 28:6 29:2 51:21 52:19 level 27:13
51:1 16:25 22:25 30:13 31:18 55:10 61:9 57:22
53:13 43:1 46:3 32:13 33:22 64:3 light 28:12
54:14 I'd 6:14,17 27:9 34:2,9 35:18 55:24
57:13 28:8,10,15 36:9,19,25 L limits 8:17
37:18 40:9 37:11,15 38:3 L 1:3 line 49:10
52:13 I'll 5:24 19:4 40:4 41:10,22 57:14 listen 5:16 6:14
38:8 I'm 33:14 49:13 43:13,22 44:12 3:24 9:7,7 48:16,22,23
60:11 J 47:1,8,22,25 13:19,21,23 listened 40:6
12:22 January 1:9 49:19 50:1,6 23:8 24:16,19 listens 5:14
57:7 joint 19:23 31:7 50:18 51:20 61:25 litigating 40:19
61:7,9 44:17,18 52:2,6,14,17 large 21:13 litigation 18:13
3:7 61:19 54:4,11,23 Laughter 6:21 little 38:3 39:11
44:8 53:9 58:24 58:16,21,23 59:4 3:6,7,9 4:9,22
62:8 judgment 20:9 59:2,3,8,12,15 law 4:9 5:3,6,9,9 5:1,4,18,21,25
18:1 Justice 1:20 3:3 60:8 61:5,16 22:17,17,20 7:18,22 8:7,15
3:9 4:1,19,23 63:18 64:13 33:14 34:13,14 8:16,24 9:1,13
6:3,10,19,25 47:13 48:5,18 12:6,13,17
11:18 keep 44:7 47:8 60:4,4 61:12
15:4,6 main 33:5 15:21 17:11,14 never 24:2 35:8 38:8 40:21,25
16:3 making 4:12 62:7 63:4 35:16 43:8 41:6 44:3,6,9
17:6 27:20 56:17 mile 46:15 49:14 44:23,24 51:4
19:11 manner 10:9 Miller 45:5 new 12:15 18:7 54:19,20,22
54:20 million 31:8,11 18:13,20,22,23 55:3 56:1,12
matter 1:11 minimize 54:22 20:8,9 36:16 56:19 57:19
22:1,3,7 43:24 45:2 minimum 21:3 43:12 58:12,14 60:22
23:1,4,7 65:17 57:22 58:1 nominal 30:7,15 61:22 63:13
24:5,18 matters 56:7 minor 43:17 40:21 offsets 9:20
26:6,9 MATTHEW minute 41:1 non-duplication oh 11:12 13:7
27:5,15 1:19 2:7 50:3 minutes 61:18 19:22 41:17,20 15:16,24,24
38:20 McCarthy 63:11 misinterpretat... 51:15,18 23:20 36:24
61:18,19 mean 5:15 7:11 61:1 non-plan 64:21 38:10 47:11
63:24 10:21 13:20 missing 37:24 normal 24:24,25 48:4 58:20
65:6 14:3 16:4 17:7 43:20,20 27:25 63:7
43:19 20:18,23 22:21 33:19 52:22 notice 9:5,10,11 okay 6:5,8 14:1
24:17 25:13,22 26:3 misunderstood 11:13,15 12:1 36:13 38:18,24
31:1,13 26:10,11 27:19 15:17 12:10 16:18 38:25 39:7
36:14,15 29:12 31:21,23 mixed 22:17 18:25 36:22 40:3 47:25
44:16 36:9 37:1 modify 61:13 37:5 50:25 49:5 59:23
48:5,9,9 39:11 47:1,3 money 3:22 51:3 54:16 old 18:24 19:7
60:12 47:23 52:7 18:17 21:17 55:6,13,18,24 once 34:14
24:15 58:17 63:10,25 25:19 26:17 63:3,3,8,8 56:8
64:1,6 37:8,24 38:1 notices 65:3 ones 35:23
38:9,11 means 6:5,6,11 55:17 63:21 23:23 25:8,10 58:25 64:1
53:6 21:7 24:14 month 46:13,14 novo 3:17 22:12 opportunity
30:25 member's 25:3 multiple 5:5 28:4 50:3
35:8,16 mention 27:19 O order 32:25 35:2
42:23 mentioning N O 2:1 3:1 ordered 35:15
17:13 N 2:1,1 3:1 obviously 14:18 ordinarily 34:17
27:17,24 method 9:5,9 18:15 offset 10:2,22 ordinary 57:6
65:1 methodology need 11:2 40:21 11:2,16,16 63:5 64:10
14:5 26:13 25:17 30:6,7 Originally 11:21
17:16,17,18,21 37:2 38:4 60:4
31:7 14:4,10,25 22:22,22 23:3 points 19:19 64:23
45:5,17 15:2,2,22 23:5,9,11,16 36:17 40:9 problem 5:7 9:9
43:25,25 64:16 24:6,14,16 policy 20:25 57:14,16
62:9 permitted 30:6 27:3,6 29:1,5,9 21:19 26:14 problems 14:12
28:4 31:15,15,17 position 28:18 33:19 43:17
54:21 44:1 62:9 33:17 34:10 34:23 36:5 Professor 6:22
11:5 46:2 1:16 2:4,12 3:8 38:9 40:10,16 possible 27:7 prohibited
54:10 32:12 51:11 41:14,16,17,23 possibly 32:16 56:18
61:20 42:1,1,4 43:20 post-1998 51:13 promise 58:7
16:23 18:24 45:16,23 46:1 predicated proper 48:1,25
65:7 31:10 44:10,11 50:10,13,24 prejudice 16:13 properly 8:7
picked 33:19 56:2,3,5,6,10 50:21 50:13 54:10
place 40:11 57:4,5,5,7,7,13 50:25 56:7 58:15 60:21
63:5,23 64:10 60:20,20,21,23 33:12 61:7
64:4 4:13,17 8:1,4 plans 11:4,10 prevail 3:18 17:17 18:11
21:12 9:17,22 10:9 50:15,17 52:20 45:18 33:6,9,25
26:3 10:10,18,25 plan's 3:25 primary 34:11 36:12 37:6,23
45:14 11:7,9,19 12:5 please 3:10 28:7 principle 3:21 40:15 51:16,18
57:21 12:11,14,24 50:7 7:8 22:8 28:12 51:22
64:6,15
36:8 rates 9:25 25:5 14:4 15:21 remanded 11:21 result 40:11
32:18 37:15 63:4 remarks 28:9 57:1 61:4
55:20 54:6,7 59:12 42:6 43:24 61:2 retirees 56:22
44:6,9,9 reading 32:1 reduced 10:14 60:7,9,14,17 24:24,25 25:4
52:11 51:17,22,24 14:20 15:11 removed 44:23 27:25 44:19
53:13,14 52:4 16:10 45:18 reporter 6:23 retracted 62:4
62:8,10 realized 45:9 referring 9:2 7:6 retroactively
16:13 regularly 42:16 required 24:13 reversal 35:2
15:14 65:8 regulatory requirement 23:18,21 59:14
18:7,13 rearguing 16:15 41:15 43:1 11:6 54:16 ridiculous 25:22
22:17,17 reason 4:15 7:9 rehired 17:8 57:10 58:10 right 4:1,21 9:13
23:18 7:20 8:19 56:23 64:15 requirements 11:23 12:5,22
17:13 43:9 rehires 27:7 55:6 14:22 16:21,24
32:4 52:24,25 62:22 reinserted 44:4 requires 10:23 19:20 20:2,14
35:3 63:21,22 64:24 reinterpretation 54:18 22:2 27:4
reasonable 12:4 29:9 requiring 13:19 29:19 31:6
37:1 12:11 22:13,19 reject 49:11 13:24 32:8 34:8 36:1
40:15 24:6 49:9,17 60:13 resembled 7:16 38:7 39:22
42:10 49:24 52:10 rejected 30:7,9 reserve 27:10 42:4 49:12,16
44:25 56:2 31:22 28:1 54:8,17 57:1
58:17,18 reasonableness rejects 31:24 resolve 38:11 64:20
60:19 49:10 60:14 resolving 51:9 risk 11:8
63:2,7 reasonably relatively 11:4 respect 7:23 ROBERT 1:15
47:5 reasons 34:22 relevant 35:21 respond 37:19 61:19
10:5 2:10 61:19 reliance 16:13 25:15 28:5 32:13 33:22
24:20 receive 45:18 65:8 50:5 34:2,9 41:10
64:9 rely 33:7 36:7 response 19:19 42:3 43:22
14:20 remaining 18:2 4:12 62:24 48:20 49:3,12
45:19 18:6,8 61:18 responsible 49:19 50:1,2,3
7:24 9:16 53:20 54:24 17:9 44:16 53:24,25 54:3
5:2 11:18,25 sections 7:5 simple 9:7 stark 43:23
12:8,16,19 see 15:24 39:4 simply 11:21 start 24:19
58:2,8 13:4,7,13,18 39:16 42:15 14:19 15:10 started 13:9
59:1,5 13:23 14:1 43:24 29:5 64:12 17:12 65:11
15:12,17,24 seeking 17:22 sitting 28:17 starting 52:15
16:2,4 17:24 seen 24:3 situated 26:12 statement 10:13
18:4 22:24 semantic 38:6 situation 61:12 14:19 15:10
65:13 23:2,6 27:11 send 4:5 5:10 situations 5:4 64:16,18
32:10 36:25 37:11,15 42:17 Skidmore 58:19 45:14 64:21
47:14 46:16,19,22 43:3,5,8 45:13 49:7 2:8 50:4
48:17 47:1,8 50:18 sends 19:1 small 11:5 33:18 statute 10:23
49:8 56:21 57:3 sense 5:12,15 45:11 63:15 11:6
51:5 59:3 61:5 18:8 20:19,21 Solicitor 1:19 statutory 23:10
9:15 10:16,24 settlor 4:11 SPDs 37:20 28:3,4,6 29:15
31:14 29:8,25 30:2,4 shots 8:10 specifically 13:2 39:2 40:3,8
33:10,22 30:14 33:15,20 show 65:8 17:10 18:11 41:13 42:5
38:5 35:23 38:2 showing 4:14 specified 11:22 43:6,25 44:14
45:22 42:10 45:2,2,6 8:18 16:12 12:12 46:21,24 47:6
48:25 45:7,8 46:9 shows 62:10,12 spend 38:23,24 47:11,24 48:4
51:17 48:12,24 51:24 sick 43:13 split 16:6 49:2,5,13,21
52:4 54:14,24 significance sponsor 3:25 60:1,5
62:8,15,18 significantly staked 33:15 strongly 11:11
10:7 13:14 63:10 9:19 stand 62:14 struck 17:20
19:3,5 second-guess silence 61:4 standard 3:12 18:14 20:7
24:2,20 29:1 silent 57:16 3:16,17 6:1,4 stuff 44:2
25:2 section 7:4,6,7 60:20 61:22 8:15 33:14 submission 9:17
33:15 19:23 24:20,22 62:2,5 40:24 41:1 submitted 65:15
45:7 25:1 30:5 36:6 similar 20:16,19 53:7,8 65:17
47:19 41:16 44:5,16 20:21 standpoint substitute 60:11
64:16,18 61:22 62:16,17 similarly 26:12 41:15 substituted
59:15 63:20 35:8 37:18 20:15 42:14 7:10 35:13
takes 58:24 54:1 55:9,19 12:24,24 15:13 trusts 34:14
46:1 talking 8:24 61:1,14 63:10 19:2 27:11 try 4:6 6:15 8:13
23:14,15 43:2 26:24 54:11 59:9 18:17 21:10
41:11 task 29:4 38:7 42:17 47:19 12:7,14 22:8 turns 6:10
56:9 51:17 24:4 25:9,18 two 28:9 29:7,21
11:1,7,9 telling 17:1 27:23 33:6 36:15 37:8,24 51:11 56:14
14:15,17 tells 8:4 38:6 39:5,11 38:1,8,10 39:2 two-part 5:21
15:23 term 23:8,11,12 44:23 60:9 41:1,5 42:15 types 14:12
17:4 52:5 things 14:13 42:15 44:3 typical 10:2,5
terms 15:19 16:5 28:21 31:17 45:20 55:12,17 11:16 28:25
54:18 17:16 18:7,9 37:18,25 38:9 61:6 63:20 64:3
57:15 22:18,20 23:5 38:12 40:9 told 9:6 13:2 typically 9:20
63:12 23:11,15 30:24 think 3:15 4:9 16:9 19:3
50:5 51:10,13,19 8:11,15,19,23 30:13 37:12 unambiguous
53:7 terrible 23:18 29:19 32:3,4,5 39:13 undermining
test 12:2 32:25,25 33:2 treatise 7:1,7 understand 5:20
20:7,8 61:16,17 65:12 45:1 47:12,12 30:20,21 42:6 54:23 55:15,20
65:13 48:1,25 49:1,9 46:24 48:4 understanding
25:18 61:4 58:2 59:18,20 49:22 50:12 31:8,11
32:2 there's 8:6 9:21 59:21 60:1,3 60:3,4 61:12 uniformity
34:23 16:6 25:25 62:18,22 64:1 61:13 62:12,12 23:19
40:25 29:14 30:15 64:2,9 62:24 unique 57:11
45:2 33:12,13 34:18 thinking 7:20 trustee 4:14 United 1:1,12,21
58:23,24 2:8 45:5 50:4
39:9,17,24 witness's 46:23 yeah 35:9 1.45(f) 44:5
22:21 52:7,9 53:10 18:23 19:22 years 12:25 20:1 38:19 39:5
50:16 53:14 words 12:3 21:14 22:5 52:12
wanted 39:12 39:15 44:9,12 25:11,11 26:1811 7:12
Washington 1:8 worked 49:22 38:19 39:5 12 7:12 32:24
wasn't 8:7 9:9 workforce 27:2 45:14 64:7,8 14 6:7
55:18 works 21:4 you're 5:23 15:518 48:7
26:17 30:20 37:16 worth 58:25 33:22 39:6 1888 35:11
51:14 39:13,18 48:25 59:16 42:13 45:15 19a 44:17
60:11 63:5 wouldn't 30:16 53:2,23 54:5 1980 12:3,22,23
37:8 46:15 wrong 4:20,23 Z 1990 11:23 12:3
38:1 weren't 56:7 4:25 5:23 17:1 zero 23:25 25:12 12:21,23 13:4
55:17 we're 31:14,14 39:14 43:18 13:6,19,24
63:21 35:13 36:7 60:13 $ 14:16 15:2,15
19:6,7 59:6,7 60:17 $16 31:8 62:6,10
64:10 we'd 39:10 $17 31:11 1990s 15:8
48:23 49:16 29:21 30:17,22 $5.18 64:19 37:2
60:23 63:16 33:6,16 34:17 2,000-some-odd
who-could-un... 41:7 44:6 45:7 25:11 46:2
46:12 1 64:7,8
58:2
33:1,20 1.1 24:22 28 2:6
43:25 41:16 61:22
13:18
2:4 13:11
43:20
15:2,22
45:12
43:25
19:23
45:13
61:18
25:1,2
30:1
45:17
30:20 43:18,24
45:14
2:9
38:17
2:12
24:25 61:24
62:9
62:9
36:15
30:3
36:15
46:3
13:16 15:8
30:3
29:24 38:9
36:15
19:23 24:20
36:6
