IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MERCK & CO., INC., ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 08-905
RICHARD REYNOLDS, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, November 30, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Petitioners.
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondents.
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondents 44
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 08-905, Merck and Company v.
Reynolds.
Mr. Shanmugam.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
The statute of limitations for private
securities fraud claims incorporates the equitable
principle known as the discovery rule; that is, the
principle that the limitations period begins to run from
the discovery of the facts constituting the violation.
Under the discovery rule, a plaintiff who suspects the
possibility that the defendant has engaged in wrongdoing
is on inquiry notice and thereafter must exercise
reasonable diligence in investigating his potential
claim.
The court of appeals in this case erred at
the first step --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counselor, that presumes
that then Congress is using unnecessary words when it
differentiates in a statute between discovery of facts
constituting a violation and a different statute, like
section 13 or 77m, however you want to call it, when
it says "due diligence."
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, Congress did say that,
Justice Sotomayor, in section 77m, section 13 of
the 1933 Act, but we don't think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So are we supposed to
presume that they like using unnecessary words?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we don't think that
Congress's inclusion of that express language referring
to constructive discovery in that provision was
significant, and that's because of the default
understanding --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you're answering me
yes, it's unnecessary.
MR. SHANMUGAM: We don't think it makes any
difference in terms of the application of the rule.
And, indeed, there are cases applying section 13 of the
1933 Act that interpret it in exactly the same manner
that we're suggesting the Court should interpret section
1658(b) in, in this case.
And that's simply because the default
understanding has long been that when a statute of
limitations is triggered by a discovery rule, that
includes both express and -- both actual and
constructive discovery, and with the exception of three
sentences in Respondents' brief, the parties before this
Court are really in agreement on that proposition.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you want to go beyond
constructive discovery?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, no, Justice Scalia.
We believe that the concept of constructive discovery
itself incorporates the specific principle of inquiry
notice, which is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I think there's a
line between constructive discovery -- constructive
discovery asks, when should you have known? And the
rule you are arguing for is something beyond that.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we are asking the
Court to adopt the principle of inquiry notice, but we
don't believe that that is a particularly significant
additional step. And that is simply because that
principle has likewise long been understood as part of
the discovery rule with regard to fraud claims
specifically, and it was well understood to be part of
the application of the discovery rule with regard to
securities fraud claims specifically, at the time
Congress enacted section 1658(b).
JUSTICE SCALIA: Under your rule, what
happens when you are put on inquiry notice? That's the
point at which you should be conducting additional
investigation, right?
MR. SHANMUGAM: That's right, and at least
where --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's where the
-- statute begins to run, at the point when you
should have conducted additional investigation?
MR. SHANMUGAM: At least where a plaintiff
fails to conduct an investigation --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- as is the case here --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- the limitations period --
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What would you --
what would you -- what phrase would you use to describe
what happens when inquiry notice culminates in finding
out? You have to say, oh, there looks like there might
be scienter, I have to look at it. And after a year,
you find it; yes, there was scienter. What -- what
would you call what happens when they find out there was
scienter?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think it's true that
at that point the plaintiff discovers the remaining
fact, and so to the extent that the Court embraces our
fallback approach, under which a plaintiff who actually
exercises reasonable diligence and conducts an
investigation gets the benefit of additional time, one
can essentially embrace and codify that understanding of
the words of the statute, which is to say a plaintiff at
the point of inquiry notice suspects the possibility
that the plaintiff has a claim. The plaintiff may not
be in possession of information bearing on each and
every element of the underlying violation, but if the
plaintiff at that point exercises reasonable diligence
and uncovers, discovers any remaining information --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But how could --
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- at that point the
plaintiff will have discovered the underlying facts.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How -- how could that --
let's descend from the abstract to the concrete that is
this case. The story that was being put out is, yes,
this drug may produce heart attacks, but there's no
indication that it does so -- that the other drug that
it's comparing with may have an anti-heart attack
element. And that's accepted. We could -- it could be
one explanation; it could be the other.
How would the most diligent plaintiff have
gone about finding out whether Merck really had no good
faith belief in this so-called naproxen hypothesis?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Right. Well, just to be
clear, as a preliminary matter, as I understand
Respondents' position, it is that the alleged
misstatement in this case is that Merck made
misstatements when it expressed its belief that the
naproxen hypothesis was the likely explanation for the
disparity in cardiovascular events that was reported in
the VIGOR study.
Now, as a first-order response, we believe
that there was considerable information in the public
domain suggesting the possibility that Petitioners had
engaged in securities fraud when they made those
statements. At that point, we believe that Respondents
were on inquiry notice, and that is a point that is more
than 2 years before the limitations period --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, excuse me. To --
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- before the plaintiffs
filed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: To say that, you must
believe that there is substantial evidence of fraud when
there is simply substantial evidence of inaccuracy,
without --
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, there was more than
that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- without any evidence of
scienter. What evidence of scienter was there?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, most notably, you had
the FDA specifically accusing Merck of deliberate
wrongdoing in connection with its public representations
concerning the cardiovascular safety of Vioxx.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but deliberate
wrongdoing -- as I understood that, it was simply you
didn't give adequate weight to the -- to the other -- to
the other side of it.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, but the FDA did more
than that in the warning letter. It accused Merck of
misrepresenting the cardiovascular safety profile of
Vioxx, and it accused Merck of minimizing the potential
of cardiovascular arrests.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That means it's -- that
means it's wrong. You can misrepresent something
without having scienter to defraud.
MR. SHANMUGAM: But I do think that the fair
reading of the FDA warning letter is that the FDA was
accusing Merck of intentional misrepresentation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it didn't stop it.
Didn't -- didn't Merck submit a curative label,
whatever, and the FDA said that was okay? And that --
that submission continued to give the naproxen
hypothesis? Not the -- the reason that we are seeing
this heart attack thing showing up is that the other
drug has a -- has a clotting inhibitor.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, it is true that Merck
continued to maintain its belief in the naproxen
hypothesis. We don't believe that that is sufficient
somehow to toll the running of the limitations period.
Such an approach would render the limitations period in
section 1658(b) effectively triggered by a continuing
violation theory.
But I do want to get back to your question
about what more the plaintiffs in this case could have
done, because I do think that that is a very critical
question here.
We do believe that there was sufficient
information in the public domain to cause Respondents to
suspect the possibility that Petitioners had engaged in
wrongdoing. At that point, there are several things
that Respondents could have done. They could have
talked to experts to test the validity of Merck's
naproxen hypothesis.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But one of the things they
could not have done was file a lawsuit right then. Is
that correct? Because they would not have had adequate
facts to comply with the rules barring plaintiffs from
filing suits based on information and belief?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we don't believe that
the Respondents would have had sufficient information to
file a complaint then; and, indeed, we have taken the
position that they still don't have sufficient facts to
satisfy the PSLRA's pleading requirements. And I think
it's notable in this case that Respondents really can't
point to any facts that came into the public domain
between the date of the FDA warning letter and the date
in October of 2003 when the plaintiffs first filed
suit --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but if we had that
--
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- that somehow provided
them additional information.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we had that kind of
analysis, where the -- where the company has to reserve
all of its defenses, then we would never get to the
statute of limitations problem. I think we have to
assume that the -- that their theory of the case is
correct. We have to -- to assume it for statute of
limitations purposes. Of course, you deny it.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I -- I think you
don't get -- get very far. And -- and it seems to me,
as Justice Stevens's and Justice Ginsburg's questions
indicate, that the companies can't have it both ways.
They can't endorse the Twombly case and then say just an
inquiry notice of a general -- of a general nature
suffices. You have to have specific evidence of
scienter. And there's nothing here to indicate that
the plaintiffs had that.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, it may very well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Even on -- on -- but you
have you to say, on their theory of the case.
MR. SHANMUGAM: It may very well be that the
plaintiffs have to possess at least some information
bearing on scienter. And again, under our fallback
approach, where a plaintiff suspects that a defendant
has engaged in securities fraud but doesn't, at the
point of inquiry notice, possess information bearing on
every element of the claim, if the plaintiff then
investigates, the plaintiff will have the benefit of
additional time until the plaintiff comes into
possession of --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you tell me --
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- information relating to
scienter.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you tell me what
that investigation would entail? Meaning, you started
by saying, go talk to experts, but I'm not sure what
talking to experts would have added to the market mix of
information. You either pick one expert who said the
theory was sound or one who didn't.
Outside of publicly available information,
what -- and finding it -- what other inquiry could they
have made that would have led them to discover
sufficient information to file a lawsuit?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think, Justice Sotomayor,
that there are at least a couple of other things they
could have done. One thing that they could have done is
talked to former Merck employees and consultants.
Another thing that they could have done is
talk to the lawyers who had filed other Vioxx-related
lawsuits. There were quite a few as of the inquiry
notice date. There were even more by the time they
actually filed the securities fraud complaint.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assuming they had talked
to those lawyers, is there anything to suggest that
those lawyers had more information than the ones they
included in the publicly available lawsuit?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, there's no way to
know, of course, because the plaintiffs in this case
failed to conduct an investigation at all. One other
thing --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You haven't answered my
question. Is there some information in some publicly
filed lawsuit up until the time of the filing of this
lawsuit that disclosed more information about scienter
than existed?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I would say that the very
fact that other lawsuits were filed that accused Merck
of making intentional misrepresentations with regard to
the very same statements that are at issue here actually
itself constitutes additional information that should
have put the plaintiffs on inquiry notice in the first
place.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How when -- when there
were -- doctors across the country were continuing to
write prescriptions for this, when the market apparently
accepted this -- it may be one thing, it may be another
-- but there were not signals from the market itself,
and the medical profession seemed to be going on and
writing -- lots of doctors were writing prescriptions
for this?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, first of all, Justice
Ginsburg, the market did respond. We don't think that a
market response is dispositive for purposes of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Very brief.
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- inquiry notice analysis.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was a brief drop,
but it came right back up again.
MR. SHANMUGAM: A brief drop in response to
the FDA warning letter, a substantial drop, but the
stock price did rebound; and a longer term drop over the
course of 2001 when the various other events that are
discussed in the briefs were occurring. So I think that
there was a --
JUSTICE ALITO: Your arguing that if the --
if the plaintiffs' attorneys made diligent
investigation, they would have uncovered facts about the
safety of Vioxx that the FDA was unaware of?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well --
JUSTICE ALITO: Because the FDA never took
any action during this period, other than changing the
label.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, the FDA did issue the
warning letter, and the label was changed to incorporate
language indicating the cardiovascular disparity from
the VIGOR study. That took place in 2002. And I think
that it is noteworthy for purposes of the merits of this
case that the FDA itself thought that that was
sufficient.
But in this case, Respondents seem to be
pointing to much later information as the point on which
they were on inquiry notice. They seem to suggest in
their brief that they were not on inquiry notice until
as late as 2004 when The Wall Street Journal published
an article disclosing certain internal e-mails.
Now, leaving aside the sort of fundamental
embarrassment to their position, I would submit, that
that suggests that they were on inquiry notice after the
complaint was actually filed. I --
JUSTICE BREYER: But the -- I take it the
point of general principle, as opposed to this case, is
I take it you will concede the following: Let's imagine
on January 1 some investors look out and there are
not only storm clouds, thunder, whatever you want, lots
to put them on notice. So then the statute begins to
run. But it could be the case that once they start to
investigate, there is a key element, say scienter, the
only evidence for which would take them an extra six
months to find, because it's in the hands of a person
who is in jail in Burma. All right?
(Laughter.)
So, you are prepared to say in that
situation the statute does not begin to run on
January 1; it begins to run on July 1, if they really
look into it. But if they don't really look into it,
then it's January 1. That's I think the basic
difference, as I gather, between the sides, or one major
difference in this case.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, that's correct,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, if that's
correct, why? That is to say, it seems to me that, in
treating these differently, you have proposed a real
morass for courts to get into.
Did they really investigate on January 1?
Was it an inadequate investigation? Was it a thorough
investigation? Along with the difficulty of drawing a
distinction between why it should be that that
difference should exist, why not just apply the same
rule to the investors whether they really do investigate
or whether they don't and in both cases the statute
begins to run on July 1, not January 1?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think there's no doubt,
Justice Breyer, that the easiest rule in some sense for
the Court to apply would be a rule that started the
clock running from the date of inquiry notice. But when
you're comparing our fallback position, a rule that is
triggered by an actual investigation by the plaintiff,
with Respondents' rule, which looks to what a
hypothetical plaintiff could have done, I really do
believe that our rule is going to be much easier to
administer because Respondents' rule by definition calls
for speculation. And in the context --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why not say that because
of one -- one element of the claim is scienter, that
there's no inquiry notice based on -- there may have
been a misrepresentation, whether it was innocent or
deliberate, we have no way of knowing. Why not say
because scienter is an element of the claim, and you
can't get your foot in the door in the court unless you
can plead that with particularity, that it's only when
you have that indication that you have what you call
inquiry notice?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, again, Justice
Ginsburg, the fundamental inquiry, so to speak, in
determining whether a plaintiff is on inquiry notice is
simply whether a reasonable investor based on the
information in the public domain would at least suspect
the possibility that the defendant has engaged in
securities fraud. And a plaintiff need not possess
information bearing on each and every element of the
underlying violation in order to be on inquiry notice.
Were the rule otherwise, the concept of inquiry notice
would collapse --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's inquiry -- it's
notice of what? And -- the law is that one element
that must be pleaded with particularity. If you don't
have that, you have no claim.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well -- well, that's
correct. But this Court has never tethered the running
of the limitations period to the ability to satisfy any
applicable heightened pleading requirements. Indeed, to
the contrary, in Rotella, this Court held quite the
opposite.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but if not, then the
whole storm warning theory that you have conceded
doesn't work.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I -- I'm by no means
conceding that the storm warning theory doesn't work. I
am simply suggesting that a plaintiff need not possess
information specifically relating to scienter in order
to be on inquiry notice. And that, we would --
JUSTICE BREYER: Then he would have to file
a complaint possibly before he has enough evidence to
even bring a case. That is, suppose my guy in Burma is
going to be in jail for 3 years; he can't get to him
for 3 years. Now, he's going to have to file his
complaint before he could have the evidence that there
was scienter. Now, that doesn't make sense to me.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, there are certainly
going to be cases, Justice Breyer, in which a plaintiff
frankly can never get to the point where the plaintiff
can satisfy the PSLRA's pleading requirements. And I
think it's noteworthy that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: In those cases, of course,
the statute would not run. Is that right?
MR. SHANMUGAM: No. We certainly don't
believe --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If we go back to the text
of the statute, it says 2 years after discovery, and you
argue it should mean 2 years after he should have
discovered, though -- and that period being measured by
a date from inquiry notice, which is not mentioned in
the statute at all.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think that in
understanding the term "discovery," Justice Stevens --
that term really can't be meaningfully understood
without reference to the common law against which the
statute was enacted. And this Court in interpreting
discovery rules --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you do agree that you
are reading as though it meant 2 years after he should
have discovered?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, that's right, and,
again, I think that getting to the point of "should have
discovered" is a fairly modest step. But this Court has
repeatedly made clear in interpreting the discovery rule
that a plaintiff must exercise reasonable diligence in
order to invoke the rule's benefits, and that is simply
because the discovery rule is an equitable rule, and it
effectively incorporates the principle of laches, that
is the principle that a plaintiff who sleeps on his
rights is not entitled to the benefits of equity.
Indeed --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Shanmugam, in Lampf we
-- we had to choose between what statute of limitations
provision, Federal one, we thought applied. And we had
two choices: One was section 77m, which reads: "After
such discovery" -- "after the discovery of the untrue
statement or the omission or after such discovery should
have been made by the exercise of reasonable diligence."
That was one choice.
The other choice was 78i(e), which simply
said: "unless brought within one year after the
discovery of the facts constituting the violation." No
statement of "or after it should have been made by the
exercise," okay? We chose the latter in Lampf.
Now, you are telling me that there was no
choice between the two, that -- that "after discovery"
always means after discovery was made or after it should
have been made? What were we doing in Lampf, spinning
our wheels?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, no, I don't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, I read this -- this
statute -- and 1658 tracks, not 77m, which says "after
discovery should have been made"; it tracks 78i(e),
which says "after discovery." Now, to me that means
after discovery, period.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, Justice Scalia, the
Court did choose to essentially incorporate the language
from -- it was section 9(e) of the 1934 Act. There were
various provisions in the '33 Act and the '34 Act that
incorporated discovery rules. And that's one --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, just tell me what the
difference it was between 77m and 77i(e)?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What was the difference,
unless it was that 77m -- I'm sorry, 78i(e) --
absolutely required knowledge?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think one potential
difference is that section 13, section 77m, refers to
discovery of the untrue statement or the omission. But
I think more broadly with regard to both section 9(e)
and the other provisions of the 1934 Act to which the
Court looked, courts had actually construed those
provisions as reaching both actual and constructive
discovery at the time the Court decided Lampf. So I
really don't think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So there was no difference
between the two --
MR. SHANMUGAM: No, there was really --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and we were just wasting
our time?
MR. SHANMUGAM: There was no difference
between the two, and I think really for the reasons that
the government states in its brief as well as the
reasons that we state in our opening brief, the default
understanding has always been that a reference to
discovery includes at least constructive discovery. And
a rule that triggers the limitations period from actual
discovery would have significant vices because it would
give plaintiffs --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you -- could you
tell me what the difference is between actual knowledge
and constructive knowledge? Because as I read the amici
who have submitted briefs arguing that actual discovery
should be our standard, they appear to say that actual
discovery or actual knowledge includes anything that's
in the public domain; that parties are presumed -- and
we have plenty of cases that say that -- to know what's
out there.
So outside of that, how would constructive
knowledge or constructive discovery be any different?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It would require the
shareholder to find the guy in Burma? Or to go and
attempt in every case to engage employees in
dishonorable conduct by talking about their business in
private, company business -- as I understood it, we were
asking employees to engage in potentially fiduciary
breaches?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think it's an open
question, Justice Sotomayor, as to what actual discovery
would -- would actually mean, and I think that there
would be a pretty good argument that you don't actually
discover the underlying facts until the plaintiff
himself subjectively actually has them in his
possession.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that's going
further than the amici are suggesting. The amici are
suggesting -- and assuming we accept their suggestion --
that it should be everything that's in the public
domain, which seems reasonable to me.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What, in addition, do
you think constructive knowledge would include that the
actual knowledge standard doesn't?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think it does --
constructive knowledge obviously also includes
information in the public domain, and we believe that
the plaintiffs in this case were on inquiry notice
precisely because --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Putting all of that --
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- of that information.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- what in addition to
that would it include, in your mind?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, for purposes of the
inquiry notice analysis, I think that that's all you
look to. You look to either information in the
plaintiff's possession or information in the public
domain. And once there is sufficient information ­-
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So -- so you are
conceding amici's point that actual -- an actual
knowledge standard is the same as a constructive
knowledge standard?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I would hope at a
minimum that if the Court were to embrace an actual
discovery standard, it would look to information in the
public domain, precisely because otherwise you really
would be rewarding an ostrich plaintiff because a
plaintiff who claimed not to read what was in the
newspapers could have the benefit of additional time.
But --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if actual knowledge
means things that the plaintiff doesn't actually know,
then I don't know what the difference is between actual
knowledge and constructive knowledge. It's a
meaningless distinction if that's how actual knowledge
is defined.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, again, that's not how
I would ordinarily understand the phrase "actual
knowledge." But I think that it's important to remember
that if in essence the standard that this Court were to
adopt is a standard that does not start the clock
running until there is sufficient information in the
public domain for a plaintiff actually to plead a
complaint, that would radically extend the limitations
period for private securities fraud actions.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what is the problem --
MR. SHANMUGAM: No circuit --
JUSTICE ALITO: What is wrong with the --
with the inquiry notice rule that the court of appeals
in this case set out on pages 29a to 30a of the joint
appendix? This is from a Seventh Circuit -- quoting
from a Seventh Circuit decision: "The facts
constituting inquiry notice must be sufficiently
probative of fraud, sufficiently advanced beyond the
stage of a mere suspicion, sufficiently confirmed or
substantiated, not only to incite the victim to
investigate but also to enable him to tie up any loose
ends and complete the investigation in time to file a
timely suit."
So that the statute would run upon inquiry
notice, provided that within the 2-year period, the
plaintiff could, if the plaintiff diligently
investigated, find sufficient facts to -- to file a
complaint that would satisfy -- satisfy the PLRA?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think I'll answer that
question, and then I would like to reserve the balance
of my time.
I think the only problem with that rule is
that, at the tail end, it effectively mandates the same
hypothetical plaintiff inquiry that Respondents suggest.
It requires a court to attempt to assess whether a
plaintiff could have discovered the remaining
information within a 2-year period. And that has all
of the same vices, we would submit, as Respondents' rule
and the government's rule.
I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Frederick.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. FREDERICK: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
Our position is that Congress intended the
word "discovery" in section 1658 to have its normal and
well-established meaning.
By contrast, Merck asks the Court to add
concepts to section 1658 not found in its text by
interpreting the word "discovery" to mean suspicion and
for the 2-year limitations period to be triggered when
facts cause an investor to suspect the possibility of
fraud.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you're adding --
you're adding concepts to it, as well. Nobody arguing
before us intends discovery to mean actual discovery.
Your -- you say constructive knowledge is enough; don't
you?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, we say, at the first
part of our submission, that the Court can decide the
case on an actual discovery -- actual knowledge
standard.
We have gone on to brief constructive
discovery because, prior to 1934, in the numerous State
statutes that use the phrase "discovery of facts
constituting," many courts had adopted a constructive
knowledge standard.
We think we win under either standard. If
the Court decides this is an actual knowledge case --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can -- can you tell me
what you see as the difference between the two? I keep
going back to what the amici has argued, which is actual
knowledge that includes knowledge of what's in the
public domain, under the theory that every shareholder
is presumed to know what's in the public domain because
that's what they buy with and that's the market theory
of securities law.
So, what do you see as a difference between
the two?
MR. FREDERICK: In a fraud-on-the-market
case, like this one, where an efficient market is
pleaded, there's no practical difference. In an
individual case, where the securities fraud alleges that
an individual investor is harmed by the individual
actions of some broker or some other person, there could
very well be a difference in terms of what the
reasonable investor should have known on the basis of
information that would be available.
And the point of the constructive knowledge
standard was to have plaintiffs not rest on their --
their ability to hide information, but to be diligent,
reasonably, in ascertaining that information, and the
constructive knowledge standard really came to address a
case different from the case that we have here, Justice
Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But I -- it sounds
right, but give me a practical -- give me a practical
example --
MR. FREDERICK: Sure.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- of what you are
talking about, where -- where an individual investor
would have something that's not in the public domain.
MR. FREDERICK: That would be information
that the -- the broker, for instance, would have made
available to the investor, that the investor simply
didn't look at, or that the investor could have asked
for, but -- but never followed up in obtaining.
And that kind of constructive knowledge
standard, this Court has held in numerous cases, dating
back to the 19th century, is an appropriate form of
attributing knowledge to a reasonable person.
And the cases that we've cited in our brief
-- Kirby, Wood -- those kinds of cases talk about what a
reasonable person in those kinds of circumstances would
be imputed to know.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well -- but actual
knowledge would include anything the investor had in
their possession because that's what actual knowledge
is; I have it in my possession -- or I have it in the
public domain. You start it from there.
MR. FREDERICK: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The -- the only
difference then would be information the individual
would have been able to get that wouldn't have been in
the public domain?
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct, through
reasonable inquiry, that by following up with questions
to the broker or to other persons associated with that
entity. It's a different theory, concededly, Justice
Sotomayor, in a fraud-on-the-market case, which is what
this case is.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- so we are in
agreement that on a fraud-on-the-market case, it might
have a different -- they would be identical?
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct, and --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You are suggesting that,
in an individual fraud case, the inquiry has to be
constructive knowledge because there could be things
that --
MR. FREDERICK: It could be actual or
constructive, depending on the facts and circumstances,
but the important point to draw away from this is that
Congress also wrote in a 5-year period of repose in
this statute and followed up on the suggestion of the
Lampf dissenters, who believed that the period of repose
was too restrictive.
So, in 2002, when Congress amended the
statute, they cited the Lampf dissenters and extended
the period of repose, which created an absolute bar to
claims of fraud being brought against defendants.
The statute of limitations period -- by
using a discovery rule -- was intended to preclude
persons from resting on their rights and not taking
action when they had discovered the facts constituting
the violation. It was not intended --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But when does the ­- when
does the 5-year -- what is the trigger for the
5-year period?
MR. FREDERICK: From the violation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what is the
violation?
MR. FREDERICK: The violation would be a
material misstatement made with scienter. And, here,
what we assert in the class period, Justice Ginsburg, is
that the first statements that were made with scienter
were those statements after Vioxx was put on the market,
in which Merck touted the naproxen hypothesis as an
explanation for what it asserted to be a cardio-neutral
effect of Vioxx, which was only subsequently -- there
was empirical evidence to -- tending to disprove that
thesis.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- you say that
you did -- you did begin this action even before that
point was reached because you -- you attribute this to
the disclosure of the internal e-mails in the Wall
Street Journal article?
So you -- you say, well, we sued even
earlier than -- than the point at which we had evidence
of scienter.
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. Under
our theory of the case, the period of constructive
knowledge of all of the elements of the violation would
have occurred in November of 2004 with the publication
of The Wall Street Journal article.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you are admitting
that you filed an improper complaint, that you didn't
have a basis -- a good faith basis for the complaint you
filed?
MR. FREDERICK: No. I'm saying --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, if you had a
good faith basis, what was -- what was in your
possession that gave you that good faith basis?
MR. FREDERICK: First, let me say that the
first complaint is now a legal nullity. It has been
superseded by --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I -- whether
it's a legal nullity or not, answer my question which
is: You had to have a basis for your complaint. What
was in your possession or in the public possession that
gave you that basis?
MR. FREDERICK: Shortly before the filing of
the first complaint, there were public releases of a
study that was done by the Harvard Brigham and Women's
study, and that was a large epidemiological study that
was the first empirical basis that disproved an aspect
of the naproxen hypothesis.
Naproxen was not a drug studied at that
time. But what the study showed was that Vioxx and
Celebrex users had a higher rate of cardiovascular
incidents, and, in fact, Vioxx had higher than Celebrex.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't prove
scienter, though.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, to an investor who was
following this information, that very well may have led
to a strong inference of scienter because of the
vociferous denials that Merck subsequently made to a
study that was publicly reported as being funded by a
Merck grant.
Now, whether that would have met a
post-Tellabs pleading standard, we will not know because
that was not subject to that kind of scrutiny. We're
here on a subsequent, superseding complaint that pleads
those allegations, and we're here on a statute of
limitations argument in which Merck attempts to argue
that the suit was filed too late, rather than too early.
Obviously --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Judge Sloviter used
the so-called Harvard study, it seems, in her opinion.
She thought that that was the point at which you had
enough to suspect scienter.
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. But, of
course, at that time, Justice Ginsburg, the case wasn't
about the pleading standards for scienter of the first
complaint.
It had long since gone past that, and the
fourth and now the fifth amended complaint, which
Merck acceded to its filing in the district court after
certiorari was granted in this case is now the operative
complaint, and I would submit that the allegations well-
established the pleading standards for scienter.
Of course, that's not an issue before the
Court, and the question of whether the first complaint
was premature is also not before the Court. But the
fact that there is constructive knowledge only on the
basis of new information that came to light is relevant
because Merck cannot point to a single fact that came
out between the FDA warning letter and the file -- and
2 years before the filing of the first complaint, so
that narrow window between September 2001 and
November 6, 2001.
And, in fact, when the FDA expanded the uses
of Vioxx in April 2002, it approved a label that
specifically addressed the uncertainty about the
naproxen hypothesis.
JUSTICE ALITO: Now, your -- your
position is that the statute begins to run at the time
when a -- a plaintiff is -- has constructive knowledge,
at least, of information that would be sufficient to
file a complaint that would satisfy the PLRA?
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. That was
the general rule, prior to 1934, when Congress first
wrote those words into the Federal statute.
But, Justice Alito, we have also provided
information to the Court of a case in the 19th century
called Martin -- this is on page 25 of our brief -- in
which the standard was seen to be somewhat lower than
the normal pleading standard, and that is what a
reasonable person would have believed that he had been
subject to fraud.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, my question -- why,
then, did Congress allow 2 years after that? At that
point, the plaintiff has everything that's necessary to
file a complaint. So why does the plaintiff need 2
years after that point?
MR. FREDERICK: In the legislative reports
that accompany the Act in 2002, what the Senate
described in its report was a concern that a 1-year
period would be too short for a plaintiff to file an
action, survive a motion to dismiss, and then gain
discovery about the possibility of other codefendants
who had participated in that fraud.
This was the era, Justice Alito, in which
Enron and WorldCom exposed to the world the complexity
of vast and difficult-to-ascertain frauds, and Congress
was seeking to extend that period so that investors
would have an opportunity responsibly to bring cases
that would ferret out that fraud and to get at all of
the people who might have participated in that fraud.
That was the explanation that the -- the
Senate gave for that, and that couples with the action
by Congress in the PSLRA, which was intended to ensure
that these pleading standards would be well investigated
and well ferreted out prior to pleadings. The 2-year
period was intended to ensure that that kind of action
would -- would take place.
And when you couple that with the 5-year
statute of repose, the statute of limitations is simply
an -- an insurance that a plaintiff is not resting too
far on information within its possession when the
statute of repose is going to provide absolute
protection.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, is there a difference
-- I'm trying to get these terminological differences
clear in my mind, and I'm not quite certain of the
difference between you and the government.
If you go back to my -- my Burma example, I
think both you and the government agree that the statute
doesn't begin to run until you find this person in
Burma. But now, I'm not sure you disagree about --
whether you agree or disagree about this. So I think --
you find the person in Burma. That's 6 months after
you had all the other indications. Now, both of you say
the statute begins to run. You would say, when you
find that person in Burma, you have to get, through him,
enough information to be able to file your complaint now
in respect to scienter.
But the government would say, when you get
that person in Burma, he has to be able to give you
enough storm clouds, in respect to -- to scienter.
Is that what the -- is there that
difference? I think --
MR. FREDERICK: I don't believe so. I
believe --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there no difference,
then, between the two of you, or what?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, the difference -- here
is the difference: We accept that the pleading standard
rule advocated by the government is the brightest line
rule and that this Court should adopt it. If it adopts
something less than that and adopts a reasonable
person's believing that fraud had occurred, that might
not quite meet the pleading standards, but would
nonetheless encapsulate the laws that existed prior to
1934, and we would prevail under that standard, too.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So do you think --
you think the standard should be -- and I can find out
from the government, and I will, I guess -- that it
should be -- that you have to -- a reasonable person
having talked to the guy in Burma would walk away
thinking, Fraud.
That's the standard; you think they're both there --
but both of you agree you have to find the guy
in Burma, though it could turn out that other features
of the case, 6 months earlier, would put a reasonable
person on notice to begin looking for somebody in Burma?
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: So you both agree about
that?
MR. FREDERICK: We do agree on that. And
the difference is that if you talk to the person in
Burma, Justice Breyer, you may not get enough facts to
get a PSLRA-compliant pleading on file, but you might
have the belief that a fraud had occurred.
JUSTICE BREYER: So -- so you want to say,
you ought to get enough information from that or in all
the other things the same, so that you have -- are able
to file the complaint. They want to say you have to get
enough so a reasonable person would believe a fraud had
occurred. Is that right?
MR. FREDERICK: No. Our position is that
the pleading standard is correct, and that if you don't
adopt a pleading standard, something a little bit less
than a pleading standard -- their standard -- is that --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm not saying -- I'm
not so worried about that. I know there's a lot less,
but -- or more, whatever -- but I am --
MR. FREDERICK: The difference -- the space
between our the position and the government is really
quite small, and it rests on pre-1934 interpretations of
"discovery of the facts constituting" that did not seem
to tie specifically to pleading standards, but
nonetheless adopted a reasonable person standard based
on what a reasonable person would have believed that
fraud had occurred.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Frederick, before you
-- you've finished, there's something puzzling about
the Third Circuit decision, and it's that Judge Sloviter
says at the end, in summary, "We conclude that the
district court acted prematurely." She doesn't seem to
close off a statute of limitations defense.
It's -- and the same thing on page 48a,
footnote 17. She says, this -- her conclusion is, "At
this stage of the evidence" -- she doesn't say that the
district court was wrong in saying that the limitation
period -- in its judgment about the limitation period
having expired. She just said it was premature.
What -- what did she mean by that?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, this was brought as a
motion to dismiss, Justice Ginsburg. Most times, a
statute of limitations defense, which is an affirmative
defense that the defendants have the burden to show --
most often they are brought as motions for summary
judgment, in which there are undisputed facts that the
defendant attempts to argue.
Here, I think what the Third Circuit was
holding was that, this is not proper as a motion to
dismiss and deny it as a motion to dismiss. But there -
- it is routine in the law that where there are motions
to dismiss, there subsequently are facts developed and
subsequent pleadings brought. I don't think that the
court was saying anything other than, this is the normal
course in which motions to dismiss which should not have
been granted would be allowed for further percolation by
the case --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it does seem to me
that even if we adopt your theory of the case, there is
some problem with the allegation that there was fraud,
because Vioxx did not -- because Merck did not disclose
that the hypothesis was only hypothetical, and the FDA
August letter made that clear. So it seems to me you
may have a problem as to that aspect of the case.
MR. FREDERICK: I don't think so --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But, again, I'm not sure
we would parse that out up here.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, you can in these ways,
because the market had no reaction. The analyst who
looked at the FDA warning letter said that this was not
changing their information. The FDA has said --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, well, you mean we
have to look to see how the analysts react?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, that was part of the
factual inquiry that Merck itself submitted as part of
its motion to dismiss. Whether the Court treats that as
relevant for ascertaining at this time whether to
affirm the Third Circuit, I don't think the Court needs
to reach, but I would point out that our brief goes into
this in quite some detail, that the publicly available
information made clear there was absolutely no market
reaction that would have led any person reasonably to
suspect that Merck did not honestly believe the naproxen
hypothesis that it were positing at the time.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you think there
was, because you filed suit a month after that study in
2003.
MR. FREDERICK: To be sure, subsequently
information came to light that brought Merck's very
serious fraud to public attention. And on the basis of
that very serious fraud that had significant adverse
consequences to investors, we have brought suit.
But it would be the height of irony that for
Merck's success in concealing its fraud through the
scientific uncertainty that was occurring with the
naproxen hypothesis, that it would have this suit thrown
out on statute of limitations grounds and never face the
day in court that the investors here expect and deserve.
If there are no further questions, thank
you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Stewart.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
MR. STEWART: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
By its terms, section 1658(b)(1) provides
that the 2-year period of limitations will commence to
run upon discovery of the facts constituting the
violation. In isolation, the word "discovery" could
refer either to actual or constructive discovery.
Between the period of the time of this Court's decision
in Lampf and the enactment of the new limitations period
in 2002, all of the courts of appeals had concluded that
constructive discovery would suffice, and we believe
that Congress's enactment of the statute tracking that
language constitutes acquiescence in that view.
Nevertheless, it's noteworthy that the
statute refers to facts constituting the violation, and
it's absolutely essential to this Court's section 10(b)
jurisprudence that can there be no 10(b) violation
without scienter. Scienter is an essential element of
the offense, and the coverage of section 10(b) would be
dramatically expanded if it were read to cover innocent
mistakes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Was there also a substantial
support in the lower court case law prior to the
enactment of this provision for the existence of inquiry
notice? And is that therefore also incorporated into
this?
MR. STEWART: There were certainly frequent
references to the concept of inquiry notice. There was
not uniformity among the courts of appeals as to
precisely what role inquiry notice would play in the
analysis.
The majority of the courts of appeals
believed as we believe that inquiry notice is a
subsidiary step along the way to determining when a
reasonable plaintiff would have actually discovered the
facts constituting the violation. And so you look first
to see when would a reasonable person have become
suspicious, and then you ask: Once the reasonable
person's suspicions were aroused, how long would it take
to complete the investigation and have actual knowledge?
And that's consistent with our view.
There certainly were courts that adopted
Petitioners' view that the statute began to run at the
time of inquiry notice, at the time suspicions were
aroused.
JUSTICE ALITO: But, under your position, as
-- the concept of inquiry notice becomes essentially
very unimportant, if not completely meaningless. You
just ask at what point would a reasonably diligent
investor have obtained knowledge of the necessary facts.
And so, what difference does it make when a person was
put on inquiry notice?
MR. STEWART: Well, I think it is -- I
think you are right that that is the ultimate question
for the Court: When would a reasonably diligent person
have obtained actual knowledge? The concept of inquiry
notice can be a useful subsidiary step, because even
once it has been established -- for instance, there are
many cases of this Court in which the plaintiff's
failure to exercise reasonable diligence consisted of
the failure to look at documents that were available in
public records offices or corporate records that were
open for inspection.
And in that situation, once you identify the
point at which a reasonably diligent plaintiff would
have commenced to look, there won't be a very long gap
in time before the reasonably diligent plaintiff would
have found what he was looking for. And in that
situation, it's really integral to identify the point of
inquiry notice, the point at which the plaintiff would
have started looking.
Now, the fact that inquiry notice is not the
be-all and end-all shouldn't be surprising, because it's
a term that doesn't appear in the statute. And so the
fact that it ultimately plays a subsidiary role in
undertaking the ultimate --
JUSTICE BREYER: So how -- how -- what's the
right phrasing? Because I -- I understood that inquiry
notice has somehow made an appearance, and it seems to
confuse me. So you say the statute begins to run when
a reasonable person would have found facts sufficient to
show a violation or sufficient to permit him to file a
complaint that alleges a violation? How -- does that
come in any way?
MR. STEWART: Yes, we -- under our --
JUSTICE BREYER: How do I say that here?
MR. STEWART: Under our standard, the -- the
individual would have knowledge of facts constituting
the violation once he had facts sufficient that if -- if
alleged in a complaint, they would survive a motion to
dismiss for failure to state a claim.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MR. STEWART: They would establish --
JUSTICE BREYER: So you are basically in
agreement. And then the way that the -- the -- then the
way that this inquiry thing comes in is that
sometimes, perhaps quite often, a reasonable person,
given certain facts, would begin to inquire.
MR. STEWART: That's correct. And --
JUSTICE BREYER: And if it happened to be a
case where inquiry played no role, then it wouldn't.
It's all a question of what a reasonable person would
do.
MR. STEWART: That's correct. There
certainly would be --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't
understand -- I don't understand that. I mean, if there
are facts that would cause a reasonable person to
inquire, you say that those only come to fruition for
purposes of the statute of limitations when they
discover it, when they have constructive discovery,
right?
MR. STEWART: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So inquiry notice
has nothing to do with anything.
MR. STEWART: Well, inquiry notice is -- in
many instances, identifying the point of inquiry notice
is often essential to identifying the point at which a
reasonable person would have discovered the facts that
would support a well-pleaded complaint.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't understand
that.
MR. STEWART: For instance, suppose it was
common ground that there were records available in an
admittedly obscure public records office, and that a
plaintiff, once he started to conduct an investigation,
would find those records within a week. We still
wouldn't know the point at which a reasonably diligent
plaintiff should have found those records until we could
first determine when would a reasonably diligent
plaintiff have started looking, and that would be the
point of inquiry notice. And so, it might be that at a
certain point, the plaintiff had --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, and maybe ­-
and maybe it turns out that you could find them within a
week and maybe it turns out you could find them within 3
months or when the fellow from Burma is released, but in
either case, it's when they discover it or should have
discovered it.
MR. STEWART: That's correct, but we --
again, knowing only that the records would have taken a
week to be discovered once the plaintiff started
looking, wouldn't tell you when a reasonably diligent
plaintiff would have found those records, unless you
also knew the date on which the reasonably diligent
plaintiff would have begun his investigation.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Stewart, you are
talking about a hypothetical case here, right?
MR. STEWART: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Some -- we are talking
about this particular case. Does the inquiry notice
contribute anything to answering the question when this
plaintiff or the -- the class of plaintiffs should have
discovered this violation?
MR. STEWART: I think typically in a fraud-
-on-the-market case, inquiry notice will really tell us
nothing meaningful --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Right.
MR. STEWART: -- because the whole premise
of the case is the market as a whole was defrauded.
Certainly, a reasonably diligent investigation ­-
JUSTICE STEVENS: So, in this particular
case, we should ignore inquiry notice entirely?
MR. STEWART: I think we should ask: When
would a reasonably diligent investor have discovered
sufficient facts to file a well-pleaded complaint?
Now, constructive discovery does still play
a role, because if there was information in the public
domain, but a particular investor simply didn't read
news reports, didn't follow even public information
about the -- the nature of what was going on with Vioxx,
that person wouldn't be shielded from the running of the
limitations period simply because he didn't have actual
knowledge.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why does the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And, Mr. Stewart, the --
you said -- the phrase that you used were "facts
constituting the alleged violation," and the other side
says, well, look at the Court's Tellabs opinion: That
described as discrete (1) facts constituting an alleged
violation -- which you say is the test -- and (2) facts
evidencing scienter.
MR. STEWART: And I think if you read
Tellabs as a construction of this statute, it would be
inconsistent with our view. But the Tellabs Court was
talking about something else. It was construing the
heightened pleading requirements of the PSLRA.
Now, the PSLRA pleading requirements do
distinguish, in adjacent subsections, between the
requirement that a plaintiff plead with particularity
the specific statements that are alleged to be false or
misleading and the reason that they are false and
misleading, on the one hand -- that's in subsection (1)
-- and then, in subsection (2), it requires also to be
pleaded with particularity the facts that establish
strong inference of scienter.
And the Court in Tellabs used the term
"facts constituting the violation" as a shorthand
reference to that subsection (1); namely, you have to
plead with particularity facts about the alleged
misstatement and why it's misleading.
The statute itself, the PSLRA, does not use
the term "facts constituting the violation" to describe
the first category. And the word "violation" as applied
to 10(b) naturally encompasses both what the defendant
did and what his state of mind was.
The other thing we would say -- two other
things we would say in that regard are, first, as the
introductory language of section 1658(b)
points out, this limitations period only applies to
suits in which the plaintiff alleges misconduct
involving fraud, deceit, manipulation, or contrivance.
And so, the limitations period is limited
to violations that have scienter as an element. And,
therefore, it would be particularly peculiar to think of
a violation as not encompassing the fact of scienter.
The other thing we would say -- and Justice
Scalia was asking earlier about the differences between
78i(e) and 77m -- and there are really too salient
differences. The first is that 77m is explicit in
providing that constructive as well as actual discovery
will suffice. And we think that 1658(b)(1) is properly
read to encompass constructive discovery, even though
it doesn't say so in so many words.
But the other salient difference is that the
period in 77m doesn't commence to run by its terms upon
discovery of the violation or the facts constituting the
violation. The statute says discovery of the false or
misleading statement or omission. That's natural in
77m, because 77m deals with violations that don't
have scienter as an element. But if this Court had
incorporated that language, it would have given the
impression that knowledge of scienter was not
sufficient -- was not required.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Shanmugam, you have 4 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice.
A narrow issue before the Court in this
case is whether a plaintiff must possess information
specifically relating to scienter in order to be on
inquiry notice. And really under any standard for
inquiry notice, there was abundant information in the
public domain as of 2001 at least suggesting the
possibility that Petitioners in this case had engaged in
securities fraud.
Now, my brothers don't really dispute that
proposition. Instead, they really advance two other
options for interpreting section 1658(b), under which
the concept of inquiry notice, the well-established
concept of inquiry notice, really has no role.
My friend Mr. Frederick suggested, at least
in cases involving alleged fraud on the market, that the
standard really should be an actual discovery standard.
But no court of appeals has adopted that interpretation
of section 1658(b), and as a practical matter that would
dramatically lengthen the limitations period for private
securities fraud actions.
And it is no answer to say that Congress's
inclusion of a statute of repose makes everything okay.
We would respectfully submit that the inclusion of the
statute of repose suggests that Congress was simply
particularly concerned with the inclusion -- with the
fact that plaintiffs could bring stale claims, and that
Congress in no way intended to modify the traditional
operation of the discovery rule.
With regard to the suggestion that the Court
should simply adopt a constructive discovery rule that
pays no heed to inquiry notice, which is the standard
that the government seems to be advancing, I think,
first of all, Respondents' difficulty in coming up with
a date on which constructive discovery occurs in this
case simply illustrates the problem that would be
multiplied a hundredfold if that standard is applied
nationwide.
And where a statute of limitations is
concerned, one needs to have clear rules and rules that
courts can easily apply without inconsistency. I do
think that that rule would also lead to abuse. It would
lead to the abuse of the ostrich plaintiff who simply
lies in wait and waits to see how a company's stock
performs before bringing suit.
And make no mistake about it: That is what
precisely happened in this case. By counsel for
Respondents' own admission in the district court, the
filing of the lawsuit in 2003, before the withdrawal of
Vioxx from the market, was triggered by a disappointing
earnings report that led to a decline in the stock
price. And one can expect that that phenomenon will be
multiplied if such a hypothetical plaintiff inquiry is
adopted.
In this case, there was abundant information
in the public domain by virtue of the FDA warning letter
and other sources as of 2001. The plaintiffs in this
case conducted no investigation at that point. And this
Court's cases --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: As long as the stock
price was holding, how was the plaintiff injured?
MR. SHANMUGAM: The plaintiff may not have
suffered an injury by that point, but it is clear that
section 1658(b) refers to the facts constituting a
violation of section 10(b), not all of the elements of a
private cause of action. So Congress itself
contemplated the possibility that the limitations period
could begin to run before the loss occurred.
And if I can just say one thing about this
Court's cases concerning the discovery rule, I
respectfully disagree with my friend Mr. Frederick.
This Court's cases make clear that a plaintiff must
exercise reasonable diligence in order to take advantage
of the discovery rule. Indeed, recently in Klehr in the
context of civil RICO, this Court held that a plaintiff
must exercise reasonable diligence even to invoke the
doctrine of fraudulent concealment.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If it's true that
everything was locked up internally at Merck, all the
reasonable diligence in the world would not have
uncovered what eventually came out.
MR. SHANMUGAM: And under our approach, if a
plaintiff comes forward and shows that the plaintiff
exercised reasonable diligence but was unable to
discover any remaining information, the plaintiff will
have the benefit of additional time.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:05 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
40:15 adding 28:13,14 35:23 approach 7:1 attributing
57:16 25:8 51:14,16 52:2 appropriate August 42:19
6:1,7 7:3 11:14 alleges 29:17 approved 36:11 29:22 30:14
45:2 25:25 57:11 allow 37:5 argue 20:9 35:8 49:10
amici 23:18 15:8 23:19 back 10:10 15:1
amicus 1:21 2:8 2:2,10 3:4,7 balance 27:12,22
40:21 analyst 42:25 arrests 9:14 basic 16:24
55:6 analysts 43:4 article 16:3 33:10 basically 48:5
46:3 54:18 34:6 54:22 ascertaining 33:21,25 34:1,7
answered 13:25 30:1 43:8 34:9,14 36:4
33:7
38:3
appearance assess 27:17 behalf 1:15,17,20
54:21
40:1,6 APPEARAN... assume 11:19,20 28:1 44:10
23:13,17
1:14 assuming 13:17 53:24
25:16
48:6 applicable 19:5 attack 7:20 10:1 10:4,25 40:12
26:2,4
28:15,20
29:3,6
applied 21:10 27:17 10:14 11:1
31:2,24
37:4 52:15 55:12 attempts 35:8 17:24 20:6 25:3
46:1,17
45:8 46:7 applies 52:21 42:3 39:6,7 40:17
44:22 C certain 16:3 collapse 18:22 concern 37:11
C 1:17 2:1,5 3:1 38:13 48:9 come 47:20 48:20 concerned 55:1
41:7 45:19 call 4:2 6:21 certainly 19:23 57:8 concerning 9:5
57:11 calls 17:25 certiorari 35:22 53:12 concluded 44:21
15:18 34:18 43:2 49:10 conduct 6:9
19:16 10:11 11:6,19 54:1 57:13 comparing 7:20 conducting 6:1
38:11 12:2,9 13:22 choice 21:15,16 17:20 conducts 7:2
40:6,10 15:21,23 16:9 21:22 complaint 11:3 confirmed 27:1
47:13 16:14 17:1 choices 21:11 13:16 16:7 confuse 47:16
48:3,5,11 19:18 24:5 25:4 choose 21:9 22:8 19:17,21 26:15 Congress 3:24
15:2 16:1 29:3,15,17 30:3 circuit 26:18,22 34:3,7,11 35:6 32:2,6 36:20
28:22 30:3 31:14,15 26:23 41:11 35:18,20,23 37:5,18,25
36:24 31:17,21 33:15 42:4 43:9 36:1,7,18 37:7 54:25 55:3
35:16,22 36:23 circumstances 38:24 40:16 56:16
55:2 50:24 54:3,8 12:16 18:3,7 completely 46:9 43:23
31:12 19:24 20:3 5:22 32:9 55:2 concealing 43:25 consistent 46:2
41:22 42:1 46:20 54:16 38:13 42:19 concede 16:10 constituting 3:15
43:20,23 56:9,20,22 43:12 55:15 conceded 19:9 4:1 21:18 26:24
24:4 28:11 48:19 close 41:14 conceding 19:12 45:22 47:24
56:16 clotting 10:2 25:16 51:14,16 52:9
40:2,4 Celebrex 34:18 clouds 16:12 concept 5:7 52:14 53:13
49:23 34:19 39:3 18:21 45:14 56:14
5:1,5,7,11 court 1:1,12 3:10 decision 26:23 38:12 53:4,6 22:4,5,6,11,20
22:24 3:21 4:20 5:3 41:11 44:19 different 4:1 22:25 23:12,12
5:15 6:25 17:18 decline 56:1 24:1 30:3 31:13 23:14,19,21
25:2,17 18:8 19:3,6 default 4:12,22 31:18 24:1,11 25:21
28:16,22 20:17,24 22:8 23:10 differentiates 28:5,9,15,15,20
29:23 22:23,25 25:20 defendant 3:17 3:25 28:23,24 32:11
31:22 26:11,20 27:17 12:13 18:17 differently 17:6 37:14 41:4
33:15 28:3,7,19 29:3 42:3 52:16 difficulty 17:10 44:16,17,18,22
44:18 30:18 35:21 defendants 32:9 55:9 48:22 51:3 53:7
48:22 36:1,2,23 39:13 41:25 difficult-to-asc... 53:9,13,14
53:7,9 41:13,18 42:10 defense 41:14,24 37:18 54:17 55:4,6,10
43:7,9 44:4,13 41:25 diligence 3:19 56:20,24
55:5,23 56:25 defraud 9:17 diligent 7:23 24:6
28:25 44:21 deliberate 9:3,6 46:10,16 47:1,3 41:23 42:6,6,8
55:16 denials 34:25 50:22 51:1 disparity 8:7
45:2 51:15 56:9 Department disagree 38:18 dispositive 14:22
cover 45:6 depending 31:25 disappointing disproved 34:14
curative 9:22 described 37:11 disclosure 33:9 distinguish
17:2,5 detail 43:11 49:24 57:10 41:13,18 55:23
31:5,10,19 D determine 49:16 discovered 7:14 doctors 14:13,18
35:15 D 3:1 determining 20:10,21,24 doctrine 57:2
40:5,20 date 11:8,8 13:15 18:14 45:20 27:18 32:13 documents
50:1 17:19 20:11 developed 42:8 45:21 49:5,25 46:22
44:7 53:21 dating 30:18 16:25 17:1,12 discovers 6:24 domain 8:11
57:13 DAVID 1:17 2:5 22:13,15,19 7:11 10:15 11:7
15:5 20:3 decided 22:25 53:11 21:3,12,12,13 54:7 56:6
42:11 decides 29:3 differences 21:18,22,23 don't 22:1 23:1
enable 27:3 events 8:7 15:5 47:8,11 53:2 27:4,9 36:6,18
54:20 44:23 45:10 16:16 19:17,21 11:7 15:10 filed 8:18 11:9
encompasses example 30:7 32:13 40:10 filing 10:25 14:2
34:16 encompassing exception 5:1 44:16 45:1,22 36:7 55:24
53:4 8:12 10:16 exercises 7:2,10 factual 43:6 13:5
27:15 entitled 21:6 expert 13:2 33:25 34:1 53:6 55:9
44:18 34:13 expired 41:20 false 52:2,3 53:14 followed 30:16
equitable 3:12 explanation 7:22 far 11:24 38:8 32:3
16:15 equity 21:6 explicit 53:6 9:19,23 11:8 31:11 34:23
era 37:16 exposed 37:17 15:3,11,13,16 foot 18:8
52:25 erred 3:21 express 4:10,25 15:21 36:6,10 footnote 41:16
ESQ 1:15,17,19 expressed 8:5 42:18 43:1,2 form 30:19
essence 26:11 37:19 features 40:2 forward 57:8
49:4 extent 6:25 36:21 47:17 49:15
22:8 46:8 e-mails 16:3 33:9 ferret 37:21 fourth 35:20
established face 44:3 fifth 35:20 5:22 8:12,20
ET 1:3,6 34:19 36:3,5,10 13:7 19:16,20 18:18 26:16,25
29:17 14:21,23,25 hear 3:3 25:9 31:1 inhibitor 10:2
32:9 37:3 18:2,13,23 heart 7:18 10:1 included 13:20 injured 56:11
32:15,19,23 heed 55:7 includes 4:25 injury 56:13
40:12 33:6 35:11,16 height 43:24 23:12,21 25:2 innocent 18:5
41:8 41:9,23 51:12 heightened 19:5 29:7 45:6
43:21,22 56:10 57:3 51:23 inclusion 4:10 inquire 48:9,20
50:16 Ginsburg's held 19:6 30:18 54:23,24 55:1 inquiry 3:18 5:8
54:9,16 11:25 56:25 inconsistency 5:15,25 6:17
give 9:8,24 23:15 hide 29:25 55:16 7:6 8:14 12:3
31:14,17 24:4 38:15 honestly 43:14 15:17 22:8 18:4,11,13,14
27:24,25 going 14:17 hundredfold 22:11 45:11 19:15 20:11
29:14 17:24 19:19,20 55:12 53:18 25:4,11 26:20
31:5,10 19:24 24:17 hypothesis 7:25 incorporates 26:24 27:6,16
32:18 29:6 38:9 51:7 8:6 9:25 10:5 3:12 5:8 21:4 31:11,21 43:6
33:14,23 good 7:24 24:13 10:20 33:1 indicate 12:1,5 45:10,14,16,19
33:21,25 34:1 34:15 36:13 indicating 15:18 46:5,8,13,17
36:19 government 42:18 43:15 indication 7:19 47:6,8,14 48:7
39:6,10 23:9 38:14,16 44:2 18:10 48:12,25 49:2,3
41:1 39:1,12,21 41:2 hypothetical indications 49:18 50:12,17
42:21 55:8 17:23 27:16 38:21 50:24 54:5,6,13
43:5,19 government's 42:18 50:9 56:3 individual 29:17 54:14 55:7 56:3
56:21 27:21 29:18,18 30:10 inspection 46:24
42:12 identify 46:25 52:7 instances 49:3
18:13 guess 39:21 49:4 10:25 11:2,14 intended 28:4
44:5 imagine 16:10 14:1,3,9 15:24 intends 28:15
16:9 36:20 harmed 29:18 inadequate 17:9 40:14 43:2,12 54:18
9:21 14:12 haven't 13:25 include 24:24 57:10 interpreting
28:9 33:10,18 50:19,23 51:11 label 9:22 15:15 32:10 35:8 38:6
Judge 35:11 51:12 53:3,21 15:17 36:11 41:14,24 44:3
judgment 41:19 57:13 Lampf 21:8,20 51:9 52:21,24
27:3 July 16:22 17:15 K 32:4,7 44:20 56:17
38:1 45:3 53:23 15:18 22:8 line 5:11 39:12
3:10,23 4:5,7 2:3,11 3:7 53:18 locked 57:4
5:24 6:5,10,12 keep 29:5 late 16:2 35:9 35:19 45:25
7:3 12:24 8:16,19,25 9:6 11:11,15,23 law 18:24 20:16 longer 15:4
15:10 9:15,21 10:21 12:8 19:8 42:14 29:11 42:7 45:9 look 6:19 16:11
27:4 11:11,15,23,25 42:22 43:3 laws 39:17 16:23,23 25:12
49:12 50:7 11:25 12:8,20 key 16:15 lawsuit 10:22 25:12,21 30:15
56:8 12:23 13:8,17 kind 11:15 30:17 13:7,20 14:2,3 43:4 45:22
29:18,21 14:23,25 15:8 kinds 30:22,23 lawsuits 13:14 51:15
15:13 16:8 17:3 Kirby 30:22 14:6 looked 22:23
34:22 17:4,17 18:2,12 Klehr 56:24 lawyers 13:13,18 43:1
51:1,5 18:23 19:8,16 knew 50:6 13:19 looking 40:4 47:4
37:19 20:19 21:8 22:2 23:23 26:3,4 leaving 16:4 looks 6:18 17:22
44:4 22:7,12,15 23:2 29:9 30:24 35:4 led 13:6 34:23 loose 27:3
25:15 26:2,17 50:2 legislative 37:9 lots 14:18 16:12
54:2 31:6,13,16,20 25:17,18 26:2,5 36:6 42:19 43:1 maintain 10:4
33:6,19,24 34:5 28:20 29:1,3,7 let's 7:16 16:10 majority 45:18
40:6,10 46:1,11,17 limitation 41:18 mandates 27:15
17:8 45:8 46:7 47:13 29:21 8:15 10:6,7 market 13:1
47:22 48:3,5,11 11:18,21 19:4 14:14,16,21,22
49:7 21:9 23:13
50:8,11 26:15 28:10
misleading 52:3 necessary 37:6 obscure 49:11 ostrich 25:23
57:16 misrepresenta... needs 43:9 55:15 obviously 25:2 23:25
28:9,15 misrepresenta... 15:13 19:3,25 occurred 33:17 P
43:3 14:7 30:16 44:3 39:15 40:12,18 P 3:1
misrepresenti... Nevertheless 41:8 56:18 page 2:2 36:24
misstatement new 36:4 44:20 44:1 pages 26:21
misstatements newspapers October 11:9 part 5:18,20
mistake 55:21 normal 28:5 37:1 office 49:11 participated
46:9 mix 13:1 notable 11:6 oh 6:18 43:3 particular 50:12
21:23 modify 55:3 noteworthy 21:20 39:19 particularity
26:3 Monday 1:9 15:20 20:2 48:3 54:23 18:9,25 52:1,6
8:4 9:3,11 41:23 42:5,6 16:1,6,13 17:19 ones 13:19 people 37:22
10:3 43:7 48:1 18:4,11,14,20 on-the-market percolation
14:6 28:7 motions 42:1,7 18:21,24 19:15 50:17 42:12
34:25 35:2 42:11 20:11 25:4,11 open 24:10 46:24 performs 55:20
36:5 multiplied 55:12 26:20,24 27:7 opening 23:10 period 3:14 6:13
43:6,14 56:3 40:4 45:11,14 operation 55:4 8:15 10:6,7
45:16,19 46:5,8 operative 35:22 15:14 19:4
N 2:1,1 3:1 47:15 48:25 51:15 23:13 26:16
narrow 36:8 54:2 nullity 34:3,6 oral 1:11 2:2 3:7 44:19,20 51:9
nature 12:3 51:7 O 2:1 3:1 ordinarily 26:9 29:19 30:20,23
38:17,20 29:24 50:14 18:18 19:13 26:16 54:20 purposes 11:21
39:2,22 55:2 56:7 54:3 56:16 14:22 15:20
41:6 plaintiff's 25:13 possession 7:8 probative 26:25 25:10 48:21
43:13 46:20 12:19 24:16 problem 11:18 put 5:25 7:17
46:12,16 play 45:16 51:3 25:13 31:2,3 26:17 27:14 14:10 16:13
48:8,13 played 48:12 34:1,8,8 38:8 42:16,20 55:11 32:25 40:3
49:5 51:8 plays 47:11 possibility 3:17 produce 7:18 46:13
52:1,11 18:17 28:11 profile 9:12 puzzling 41:10
2:4,12 3:8 19:5 20:1 35:4 post-Tellabs proposition 5:3 question 10:10
10:16 46:4 35:17,24 37:1 35:4 54:11 10:13 14:1
54:8 38:1 39:11,16 potential 3:19 protection 38:10 24:11 27:12
41:5 51:23,24 potentially 24:8 provide 38:9 46:15 48:13
51:13 42:9 30:6,6 54:19 27:7 36:22 questions 11:25
plenty 23:23 preliminary 8:2 21:10 45:10 41:3 43:11 48:8
7:1,5,7,7 36:18 41:20 22:22,24
point 6:1,6,24 7:6 prematurely PSLRA 37:25
7:10,13 8:13,14 41:13 51:23,24 52:13
18:14 10:17 11:7 premise 50:20 PSLRA's 11:5
19:13,24 12:15 15:24 prepared 16:20 20:1
21:1,5 16:9 19:25 prescriptions PSLRA-comp...
25:23,24 20:23 25:16 14:14,18 40:11
27:8,8 29:23 32:1 33:8 presume 4:8 public 8:10 9:4
36:16 33:12 35:13 presumed 23:22 10:15 11:7
38:7 36:5 37:6,8 29:9 18:16 23:22
47:1,3,6 43:10 46:10 presumes 3:23 24:20 25:3,13
47:1,5,6 49:3,4 pretty 24:13 25:22 26:14
45:6 51:5
49:14,18,19 prevail 39:18 29:8,9 30:11
53:9
54:3 56:8,13 pre-1934 41:3 31:4,9 34:8,11
56:3,11 pointing 15:24 price 15:4 56:2 43:21 46:23
points 52:21 56:11 49:11 51:4,6
positing 43:15 principle 3:13,14 54:7 56:6
11:9 16:5 17:20 28:4 21:4,5 33:17
16:22,23
13:22 36:15 40:19 prior 28:23 36:20 publicly 13:4,20
15:9 41:2 46:7 38:2 39:17 45:9 14:1 35:1 43:11
23:1,4,8
25:4 possess 12:11,15 private 3:11 24:7 published 16:2
30:2 41:2 remember 26:10 RICHARD 1:6 S 2:1 3:1 see 29:5,12 43:4
50:17 53:5 render 10:7 RICO 56:25 safety 9:5,12 45:23 55:19
repeatedly 20:25 right 6:2,3,14 8:1 15:11 seeing 9:25
report 37:11 56:1 10:22 11:22 salient 53:5,11 seeking 37:19
18:15 reports 37:9 51:6 40:18 46:15 36:18 sense 17:17
24:21 repose 32:2,4,8 47:14 48:23 saying 12:25 19:22
30:20,23 38:6,9 54:23,25 50:9,19 33:23 40:23 sentences 5:2
37:2 representations rights 21:6 32:12 41:18 42:10 September 36:8
40:3 9:4 ROBERTS 3:3 says 4:3 20:8 serious 43:21,22
41:6,7 require 24:3 6:15 27:23 44:7 22:3,5 41:12,16 set 26:21
required 22:17 48:17,25 49:7 51:15 53:14 Seventh 26:22,23
47:17 53:20 49:20 53:21 Scalia 5:4,6,10 Shanmugam
49:5 requirement 57:13 5:24 6:5,10,12 1:15 2:3,11 3:6
57:1,5,9 52:1 role 45:16 47:11 6:14 8:16,19,25 3:7,9 4:4,9,16
46:10,16 11:5 19:5 20:1 54:14 22:2,7,12,15 6:13,23 7:13
49:14,16 51:23,24 Rotella 19:6 23:2,5 28:13 8:1,17,23 9:2
51:1 requires 27:17 routine 42:7 34:20 53:4 9:10,18 10:3
53:23 respect 38:25 17:18,20,22,24 16:15 18:3,7 14:24 15:2,12
respectfully 20:25 21:3,3 32:24 33:13 18:12 19:2,11
54:24 56:21 23:13 26:20 34:21,24 35:14 19:23 20:5,13
52:10 1:18,22 2:6,9 39:12,13 55:4,6 51:18 52:7,25 23:7 24:2,10,22
27:16,20 28:1 rule's 21:2 section 4:2,5,5 56:12 57:7
22:21 response 8:9 16:14,21,22 10:8 21:11 22:9 24:4 29:8
55:5 14:22 15:2 17:15 20:4 27:6 22:19,19,21 shielded 51:8
54:4 37:20 44:16 46:4 45:2,5 52:20 shorthand 52:9
restrictive 32:5 17:19 19:3 5:22 8:12 12:14 showing 10:1
27:18 rewarding 25:23 26:16 29:11,17 side 9:9 51:14
Reynolds 1:6 3:5 S 54:9,21 sides 16:25
23:14 stale 55:2 step 3:22 5:17 43:19 suppose 19:18
standard 23:20 20:24 45:20 subsidiary 45:20 49:9
9:7 18:15 25:21 26:11,12 Stevens 10:21 substantial 8:20 Supreme 1:1,12
21:2,16 28:21 29:1,2,24 20:3,7,14,19 8:21 15:3 45:8 sure 12:25 30:8
38:6 51:5 30:2,18 35:4 50:8,11,19,23 substantiated 38:18 42:22
54:25 55:6 36:25 37:1 Stevens's 11:25 27:2 43:19
39:11,18,20,25 Stewart 1:19 2:7 success 43:25 surprising 47:9
47:5 54:17,17 55:7 48:4,10,15,24 suffice 44:22 suspect 10:16
39:16 41:5 stock 15:4 55:19 10:14 11:2,4 12:13
12:20 statement 21:13 strong 34:24 suggest 13:18 T 2:1,1
13:8,17 21:19 22:20 52:7 15:25 27:16 tail 27:15
23:16 53:15 studied 34:16 suggested 54:15 take 16:8,10,16
statements 8:13 study 8:8 15:19 suggesting 4:20 38:4 45:25
29:4 14:8 32:24,25 34:12,13,13,17 8:11 19:13 56:23
52:2 35:1,12 43:17 24:18,19 31:20 taken 11:3 50:2
states 1:1,12,21 subject 35:5 37:3 54:7 talk 12:25 13:13
34:5 2:8 23:9 44:10 subjectively suggestion 24:19 30:22 40:9
statute 3:11,25 24:15 32:3 55:5 talked 10:19
21:9 22:3 27:6 54:24 44:2 55:20 tell 12:20,23
41:14,24 44:3 52:5,10 superseded 34:4 51:21 52:8
9:3 19:14 47:10,16 48:21 51:25 35:6 tending 33:4
41:5 54:4 51:20 52:13 subsequent 35:6 support 45:9 term 15:4 20:14
27:11,14 29:2 23:3,8 29:5,13 V Washington 1:8
39:19,20,25 54:11 validity 10:19 wasn't 35:16
53:12 43:16 46:14,15 typically 50:16 22:10 way 13:21 18:6
44:5,7,12 43:9 ultimately 47:11 50:3
57:12 thorough 17:9 unable 57:9 weight 9:8
thought 15:21 unaware 15:11 well-established
24:20 three 5:1 36:12 44:1 well-pleaded
7:9 10:9
35:25 thrown 44:2 uncovered 15:10 49:6 51:2
21:18
37:6 thunder 16:12 57:6 we're 4:20 35:5,7
46:2 52:4 tie 27:3 41:5 uncovers 7:11 we've 30:21
44:17
47:18
12:9 13:3 12:18 13:15 7:14 18:20 win 29:2
50:15
29:8,10 14:2 22:25 23:6 24:14 window 36:8
52:9
33:15 25:25 27:4,13 understand 8:2 withdrawal
53:2
27:22 34:17 26:9 48:18,18 55:24
56:15
13:21 43:8,15 44:19 understanding Wood 30:22
18:4 46:5,5 47:3 4:13,23 7:4 word 28:5,9
41:10 57:11 20:14 23:11 44:17 52:15
32:25
34:17,19
42:17
55:25
14:15 touted 33:1 undertaking world 37:17 57:5
48:7 tracking 44:23 47:12 WorldCom
53:3 tracks 22:3,4 undisputed 42:2 37:17
traditional 55:3 uniformity 45:15 worried 40:24
26:3 31:22 treats 43:7 46:9 W 48:12 49:14
52:19 trigger 32:16 United 1:1,12,21 wait 55:19 50:4 51:8
6:23 9:18 10:8 17:21 unnecessary walk 39:23 writing 14:18,18
11:5,18 28:10 55:25 3:24 4:8,15 Wall 16:2 33:9,18 wrong 9:16
13:8 triggers 23:13 untrue 21:12 want 4:2 5:4 26:19 41:18
15:6,19 true 6:23 10:3 22:20 10:10 16:12 wrongdoing
17:16 57:3 use 6:16 28:24 40:13,16 3:17 9:4,7
trying 38:12 52:13 warning 9:11,19 10:17
23:1,8 turn 40:2 useful 46:18 11:8 15:3,17 wrote 32:2 36:21
turns 49:21,22 users 34:18 19:9,12 36:6
26:10 two 21:11,22 uses 36:10 43:1 56:6 X
20:8,9,20 27 2:6
37:5,8 29a 26:21
3 2:4 19:19,20
1:5 3:4 49:22
1:9
26:21
16:11,22,22,24
22:10
22:10
52:4,10
37:11 4
45:2,3,5 4 53:22
56:15 44 2:9
1:13 3:2 48a 41:15
57:15
4:2,5,18 22:19 5
22:3 28:5,8 5-year 32:2,16,17
4:21 38:5
10:8 52:20 53 2:12
56:14
44:14 6
6 36:9 38:20 40:3
41:16
30:19 36:23
22:13
4:6,19
4:2,5 21:11
22:9,22
36:20
21:16 22:4
22:16 53:5
8:15 20:8,9,20
37:5,7
22:9,21
52:5
27:7,19
38:2
15:5 36:8,9
56:7
15:19 32:6
37:10
