IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JAN HAMILTON, CHAPTER 13 TRUSTEE, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-998
STEPHANIE KAY LANNING :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, March 22, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JAN HAMILTON, ESQ., Topeka, Kansas; on behalf of
Petitioner.
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Respondent.
SARAH HARRINGTON, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JAN HAMILTON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
SARAH HARRINGTON, ESQ.
On behalf of United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Respondent 40
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JAN HAMILTON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 08-998, Hamilton,
the Chapter 13 Trustee, v. Lanning.
Mr. Hamilton.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAN HAMILTON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. HAMILTON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Tenth Circuit and Stephanie Lanning were
wrong in ignoring the new Chapter 13 means test
contained in the 2005 amendments to the Bankruptcy Code.
The amendments to the 2005 Bankruptcy Code were intended
to reduce judicial discretion by inserting a formula
rather than the judicial discretion that had previously
been accorded to judges and to the litigants.
Stephanie Lanning fell afoul of the means
test because during the first 2 months of a 6-month
lookback period, which I will explain in a moment, she
had more income than what she had in the rest of the
6-month lookback period. That income was from a buyout
from her former employer, Payless, and distorted what
her income appeared to be during that 6-month period of
time. Because of that, the amount which the means test
showed that she would be required to pay to her
creditors was more than she could actually pay.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Which means -- which
means what? What is the consequence of that? You
concede that on the strict application of the 6 months
she -- her income is much too high for her possibly to
pay the creditors. So what happens to her?
MR. HAMILTON: What happens to her and what
could have happened to her may be two different
propositions, Justice Ginsburg. In the first place,
there are two parts to that 6-month lookback period,
which are found in 101(10A) of the United States
Bankruptcy Code -- and the statutes, by the way here,
are found at pages 83 through 96 of the petition
appendix.
101(10A) has a first part which defines the
6-month lookback period as being 6 months prior to the
filing of the date of the petition -- actually, the end
of the month prior to the filing of the petition.
Congress's thought was, it seems, that that would be
more representative of what an individual's actual
income would be.
There is a second part to that 6-month
lookback period which says essentially that the debtor
can move that 6-month lookback period by not filing
certain papers with the court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's -- can you explain
that? It seems very odd. It says she can do that if
she doesn't do what the statute requires her to do. I
mean, she's supposed to file that schedule. She's
required, the statute says, to file it. But she gets an
advantage if she doesn't do what she's instructed to do?
MR. HAMILTON: The part of the statute that
you are referring to is under 523, and it essentially
says that debtor shall file -- 521, excuse me -- shall
file certain schedules and that would include the income
and expense schedules, Schedule I and Schedule J. And
certainly the court has the ability, under that statute,
to extend the time or to excuse the performance of a
debtor in that regard. So there's nothing incongruous
about that wording in the statute.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What do you -- what do
you do with the contention that the court is bounded by
other requirements such as the timing of the meeting of
creditors and the plan confirmation, that that binds the
district court from resetting it?
MR. HAMILTON: Certainly all of those time
frames can be moved, Justice Sotomayor. There is -
again, the actual timing of the confirmation hearing in
a Chapter 13 case may be fluid, although there are
certain time limits for the first meeting of creditors
and for when the first -- when the confirmation hearing
is held. They can be extended, just as the confirmation
hearing would be in a Chapter 12 or in a Chapter 11
case.
So the idea is the second part of 101(10A)
allows the debtor to say: Your Honor, my 6-month time
frame immediately prior to the filing of the bankruptcy
petition is not representative of my income; I would
like to have that time frame moved. And that time frame
would appear to be moveable up to the confirmation
hearing.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Moveable to where? What
-- what would be -- you say -- this time period, the
statutory -- the 6-month lookback, she has these 2
extraordinary months. So now she's going to say:
Court, please change the period. Change it to what?
Anything she wants?
MR. HAMILTON: No, Your Honor. That would
be up to the court. It would be discretionary with the
court, as the language suggests in the second part of
101(10A).
JUSTICE ALITO: But isn't it the case that
before the 2005 amendments, bankruptcy courts were
recognized as having discretion in calculating projected
disposable income to take into account changes in the
debtor's income after the filing of the plan, and
shouldn't we presume that -- that Congress intended to
continue essentially the same regime, unless Congress
provided some clear indication that they wanted to
depart from it?
MR. HAMILTON: Certainly prior to the 2005
amendments, your assessment is correct. The court had
the discretion to be able to assess the debtor's
situation, use its discretion to determine what income
and expenses should be calculated in determining whether
or not a debtor was paying his or her best efforts under
1325(b)(1).
Here, there is a clear formula. And if you
read these -- there are three, three key statutes that
form a triangle in order to give me the conclusion that
I make and that I suggest to Your Honor. And that is,
we start with 1325(b)(1), which is the statute that
brings into play the disposable income and projected
disposable income requirements. "Disposable income" is
now defined as "current monthly income."
JUSTICE ALITO: It is odd that Congress
provided this very detailed formula and -- and that they
would provide such a detailed formula and then say: But
the bankruptcy court can modify that based on a
projection.
But still we have the word "projection" -
"projected." And your interpretation leads to very
strange, really absurd results; isn't that true? And
you have to devise some really elaborate escape
strategies in order to allow a debtor to avoid those
very strange results.
MR. HAMILTON: Respectfully, Justice Alito,
I don't any agree with the assessment that -- of what
you just stated. Essentially, this formula allows the
bankruptcy court to move that 6-month period of time,
not to ignore the formula. The formula's there.
The formula defines "current monthly
income." From the current monthly income then is
subtracted reasonable and necessary expenses. And
formerly, under the old law, the '78 code, those
reasonable and necessary expenses contained a few
specifics, but largely it was up to the court to
determine them.
JUSTICE ALITO: But you say that that can be
done only if the debtor fails to file a form that the
debtor is required to file; isn't that right?
MR. HAMILTON: In -- under 101(10A), the
second part, yes. But I think there are -- there are
some other -- other avenues for the debtor that are
statutory.
JUSTICE ALITO: What do you do with the
situation in which the change that is projected to occur
and in fact may be almost certain to occur is one that
causes an increase in the debtor's income? Let's say
the debtor was unemployed through almost all of the
lookback period and then just before the filing of the
plan gets a job with a good salary. You would say that
the -- if you just look at the lookback period, the
debtor would be required to pay practically nothing.
MR. HAMILTON: No, Your Honor, I would not
agree with that.
JUSTICE ALITO: What is a creditor to do in
that situation?
MR. HAMILTON: Well, there -- there are a
couple of avenues. There is a new statutory provision
under 1325(a)(7) that says the plan must be filed in
good faith and -- I'm sorry, the petition must be filed
in good faith. 1325(a)(3) provides that the petition
must be filed in good faith. So we still have the good
faith analysis that the debtor's actions may be
subjected to even after the plan is filed. And that
would be as trustee the avenue that I would approach is
that, even though the schedule formula may have been
complied with, that if there had been a drastic increase
in income post-petition, then that -- that should need
to be accounted for.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, why -- what
commends going through all these machinations, all of
these alternative ways of avoiding absurd results?
Isn't the answer simply that we just narrow the
circumstances in which a court can deviate from the
statutory formula?
I mean, it's not -- even before this change,
it wasn't that the district courts could at whim change
the projected income. They have to have a clear ground
to do so. Why is that inadequate to protect the
interests that Congress had in creating this new formula
for income and expenses?
MR. HAMILTON: My answer, Justice Sotomayor,
is that Congress provided the formula, and it's not up
to the courts, I suggest, to modify that formula. Part
of the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There was a formula
before. It was somewhat ambiguous, and that's what led
to the more defined terms for income and expense. But
that says nothing about changing the court's power to
act in a situation where the formula's clearly not going
to work. That was the standard before.
MR. HAMILTON: Two points, Justice
Sotomayor. One is that there was no formula before.
There was some general guidance that was given in the
statute. It's much like the proposition of good faith.
Good faith is almost incapable of definition, yet every
circuit in the United States has a laundry list of
factors that are taken into account for good faith.
Here, reasonable and necessary expenses
under the old law had a few suggestions as to what
needed to be involved with them. Now we have a portion
of another part of the triangle, which is under 707(b).
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in a sense that cuts
against you. As I was -- when I was reading your
opening brief, it seemed to me the tone was, well, if
you accept the Respondent's position Congress did
nothing at all. Well, they did do something very
important. They had a formula for disposable income.
The question is, does that formula apply to projected?
Can that formula be modified altered or projected for
projected? So it's not as if Congress did nothing or
it's not as if the amendment accomplishes nothing even
under the Respondent's view. It accomplished something
very important.
MR. HAMILTON: My answer, Justice Kennedy,
is that the definition of the word, quote, "projected,"
end of quote, has -- there's never has been one in the
code. That was a term that was in the 1978 code and is
carried over into the present code.
How it was applied is vastly different. The
dispute under the prior law was over whether or not the
court could take into account changes in circumstances
which were likely to occur post-confirmation. And so we
had cases like the Anderson v. Satterlee case out of the
Ninth Circuit and the Midkiff case out of the Tenth
Circuit that disagreed as to how that ought to be
applied.
In the Anderson v. Satterlee case the
Chapter 13 trustee requested that the debtor sign
essentially a pledge that they would devote their excess
income to the plan, and the Anderson court said: Wait a
minute; there is another statute at issue here and that
is 1329. 1329 allows for the modification of the plan
after the plan has been confirmed. Prior to the
confirmation of the plan, the debtor still has the
ability -- and this ties in with some of the comments
made by Justice Alito -- the debtor still has the
ability to amend the plan under 1323.
So all of these statutes need to be read
together to show what the result is. Now the question
is not whether or not changes should be taken into
account for post-confirmation that may be likely to
occur, but whether or not the court may deviate from the
statute where Congress has said this is how we want you
to determine current monthly income, therefore
disposable income and consequently projected disposable
income.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you already told us
that there could be a deviation through this
101(10A)(ii). And why, if that was all that needed to
be done, did the trustee recommend, did the trustee say,
bankruptcy judge, let's move the period, let's use this
provision and we will get another period that doesn't
have those 2 months with the extraordinary income?
MR. HAMILTON: No, Justice Ginsburg, and the
reason is, is that that privilege is accorded only to
the debtor to move that 6-month period. Neither the
unsecured creditors nor the trustee have the ability to
request that that 6-month period be moved.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, it could have been
suggested to the debtor: You can accomplish what you
want by using this provision.
MR. HAMILTON: The record is silent as to
whether or not that occurred.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- where can you move
it? I don't really -- this is the same line of inquiry
as Justice Ginsburg. What's the -- what has to be the
ending date if you move the -- you can't move it any -
much beyond the date of what, the hearing?
MR. HAMILTON: It would be up to
confirmation, but the confirmation hearing could be
continued as the court saw fit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The review of the
determination or the request to move the period is -- is
what? Up to the total discretion of the -- of the
judge?
MR. HAMILTON: It appears to be so under the
statute, Chief Justice Roberts.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your objection to
the fact that the judge has more discretion with respect
to defining "projected disposable" -- you don't mind the
discretion on the other side.
MR. HAMILTON: No, Your Honor, I don't
believe the discretion is not in determining the income,
only in determining the time period.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right, but the only
purpose of moving the time period is to change the
income.
MR. HAMILTON: That's true. And there are
other options that the debtor had available in addition
to that, that we have referred to as the four options,
which would be the debtor could have here just delayed
filing the case for a couple of months and these
problems would not have occurred.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There is another discretion
that you don't seem to object to. You say that one -
one way the debtor can get out of the bind that he's put
in by the fixing of the confirmed plan is simply to move
for a revision of the confirmed plan.
MR. HAMILTON: Absolutely, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What constrains the judge
in allowing or not allowing the revision? Doesn't he
have the same kind of discretion with regard to the
revision that you're objecting to with regard to his
establishing the payments?
MR. HAMILTON: Justice Scalia, I don't think
so. 1329 has been subject to quite a bit of litigation,
but the argument that we make in our reply brief is that
it would be simply necessary to plug in and plug out
whatever the change in circumstance is.
So the debtor would be able to say, my
wife's income is now gone, so we want to take that out
of the formula.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's the same thing
that's being argued here, that -- that you start with
the fixed calculation based on the 6 months before and
then you have to show that there were some extraordinary
circumstances that justify a change. I don't see that
there's any difference.
MR. HAMILTON: There may not be, except that
there is a statutory requirement as to how that is
accomplished and that's where the 101(10A)(ii) comes
into play. It's not so much that there is a problem
with -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What your case comes down
to is the bankruptcy court can do this, but it has to do
it by simply revising the plan, not by establishing the
plan initially but by revising it.
MR. HAMILTON: Not necessarily, Your Honor.
That certainly is one way.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe?
MR. HAMILTON: It may be, yes. It depends
on the facts of the case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's a good
answer, isn't it, because your point would be the
statute does not allow that exercise of discretion with
respect to projected disposable income, but it does in
the other areas.
MR. HAMILTON: Well, again I respectfully
disagree, Chief Justice Roberts. 1329 -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That was a friendly
question.
MR. HAMILTON: I'm sorry? I'm sorry, I
didn't hear.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, my -- my point
and what I thought your point would be is that the fact
that there is exercise of discretion in two different
areas is not the problem. The problem is that in one
area the discretion is specifically permitted and in the
other area, projected disposable income, it's not.
MR. HAMILTON: I agree.
(Laughter. )
JUSTICE ALITO: But can the -- can the plan
be modified based on -- can the plan be modified based
on something that was known before the plan was
confirmed?
MR. HAMILTON: That depends on which
jurisdiction one would be in, Justice Alito. The most
current example -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if it can't, then how
is this modification remedy going to work?
MR. HAMILTON: I think it should be. For
example, a good example of this would be debtor is
expected 2 years from now to no longer have to repay a
401(k) loan. And so one view would be that you ought to
take that into account as of that date and figure those
calculations, which becomes extremely unwieldy. You are
guessing at that point. The debtor may say: Well, I
may be losing that, but I don't know what my actual
circumstances are going to be 2 years from now. Chapter
13 is a fluid process.
JUSTICE ALITO: Your argument is that the
Court has to confirm a plan that is really not
confirmable because the debtor can't possibly make the
payments under the plan, but then can turn around
immediately and modify the plan so that it does call for
payments to be made.
MR. HAMILTON: No, Your Honor. That is not
my argument.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I thought that -
explain it, then?
MR. HAMILTON: Well, what we are saying is
that this plan cannot be confirmed as it stands because
the debtor would have to be able to make those payments
and the debtor obviously is not capable of making those
payments. But it's because she chose the wrong options.
If she had chosen the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But let me just stop you
there, because then the answer you gave to the Chief and
to Justice Scalia doesn't fit. Chief -- you can not -
the bankruptcy judge is not going to confirm the plan
was she has to pay over $1,000 a month, because she
could never do that. So you are not going to get that
confirmed plan which could be amended later.
MR. HAMILTON: Well, I agreed with that. I
may have misunderstood the question that I was asked.
But what I'm saying is that the statute needs to be
followed and if the debtor had followed the statutes
here then the debtor likely could have obtained a
confirmed plan by moving that 6-month time frame.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what in addition to
-- you brought up the 101 solution that she doesn't do
what the statute tells her to do, so she's able to move
it if the judge agrees. And you said she has other
options.
MR. HAMILTON: Yes. Well, the other options
-- and I referred to them as the four options and the
101(10A)(ii) is one of those options. As I said, she
could have delayed filing the case. There is nothing in
the schedules that would indicate that she was filing
this bankruptcy under exigent circumstances. There is
no foreclosure, there is no repossession, there's no
garnishment, there's no lawsuit. So delay would have
been a possible, and a debtor is always able to
determine the date of the filing of the petition.
The second thing that she could have done is
file a Chapter 7, and this is the anomaly between
Chapter 13 and Chapter 7, is that she would have
qualified in all likelihood for a discharge under
Chapter 7 because she would have met the special
circumstances test in 707(b).
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then the creditors
would have been a lot worse off, would they not have
been?
MR. HAMILTON: That's very possible, but
it's a formula that Congress thought to place into
effect and it's not -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, why would -- why
would the trustee be urging the possibility that it
would be okay for her to file under Chapter 7, in which
case the unsecured creditors would get very little, but
it's not okay for her to use chapter 13 with a plan that
would give the unsecured creditors substantial payments?
MR. HAMILTON: Here, Justice Ginsburg, the
reason is plain and simple, and that was I sought to
enforce the rule of law in order to have the courts
determine how the rules were supposed to be interpreted.
By my view, it seemed like that had she followed the
rules maybe she would have gotten there, but the way she
did it she can't. It's kind of like driving a car. You
can't expect that a the car is going to perform well if
you don't turn the engine on.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I -
MR. HAMILTON: And here she didn't turn the
engine on.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I come back to
Justice Ginsburg's question about whether there would
ever be the opportunity to adjust the confirmed plan?
Because as you say, the plan here would not have been
confirmed, but that -- that isn't the case always. I
mean, in many cases a plan would be confirmed because
the -- the bankrupt could -- could barely make the
payments that it requires; and then when it -- it is
clear that, because of the extraordinary event in the
preceding 6 months, the bankrupt is -- is not going to
have that -- that amount of money, there would be the
opportunity to adjust.
MR. HAMILTON: Maybe not -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: In other words, is your
response to Justice Ginsburg "always," that it will
always be the case that where there would be an
adjustment under this theory, there would not have been
a confirmation in the first place?
MR. HAMILTON: If the plan is not
confirmable by an analysis of Schedules I and J, which
are the income and expenses statutes, I am not going to
recommend confirmation, and nor do I think any trustee
would. Any events that are in the equation before the
date of confirmation would likely be then subject to
1327, the res judicata provisions of chapter 13. So if
the plan is confirmed, say in Stephanie Lanning's case,
with these facts known, then she would not be able to
come in afterwards and ask for the court to modify under
1329 because that's part of the confirmation order.
The other options that were available -- we
discussed briefly the ability to file this as a Chapter
7. She also could have converted this case to a Chapter
7 post-petition with the same result, or she could have
dismissed this case and refiled.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't that -- wouldn't
that amount to just a -- a waste of everybody's time, to
dismiss it and then refile it, and then she gets a time
period that doesn't -- why -- why not just drop out
those 2 months that are not representative of her
income?
MR. HAMILTON: Because, Justice Ginsburg,
the statute does not permit that. It's not within the
formula, and that's the question: Is the formula
binding or is it not binding? If it is binding then
this -- obviously. Congress intended a more rule-bound
statute. It got that. It was obvious that it intended
to reduce judicial discretion, and the statute seems to
accomplish that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the thing is -- but
you have explained, your number one solution for her is
this 101 route, which is -- gives lots of discretion in
the court.
MR. HAMILTON: Only in moving the 6-month
period, Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. HAMILTON: That would be the only
discretion that the statute would appear to accord to
the court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where is that, by
the way, the provision that allows it to move the
6-month period?
MR. HAMILTON: It's in 101(10A) and it
provides that the term "current monthly income" means
the average monthly income from all sources that the
debtor receives, or in a joint case the debtor and the
debtor's spouse receive, without regard to whether such
income is taxable income derived during the 6-month
period ending on -- and then we come to subsections (i),
little (i) -- or (ii). And those are -- that's the
disjuncture; it's the 6-month period prior or some other
time frame, and the language is important.
JUSTICE ALITO: What do you say about cases
in which moving the 6-month period can't solve the
problem? For example, if the debtor had good income for
many years going back, but then slight -- shortly before
the filing of the plan loses his or her job, and there
is no prospect that the debtor is going to get another
job? Or it could be the converse, has very low income
for a long period and then right before gets a job. So
you are not going to be able to cure those problems by
moving the 6-month period. What do you do then?
MR. HAMILTON: Well, Justice Alito, I think
I would tie in 1323 with respect to the first
proposition, and that is if the debtor's circumstances
have markedly changed, then the debtor has the ability
to file an amended plan; and that amended plan could ask
the court to move that time frame forward to a
confirmation hearing that would take into account the
drop in income.
With respect to the second part of your
proposition, and that is an increase in income, then I
as Chapter 13 trustee would have the ability to object
to it on the basis of -- of good faith under either
1325(a)(3) or 1325(a)(7), either the plan or the filing
of the case itself. And those -- the filing of the
1325(a)(3) was the primary way in which all of these
disputes were resolved before the 1984 amendments which
brought in subsection (b) to 1325 which introduced the
concept of disposable income.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do you file an
amended plan and have the court restart the clock, when
101(10A) says only if the debtor has not filed a
schedule of current income? If there's been a plan
confirmed or a plan proposed, then the income schedule
had to have been filed.
MR. HAMILTON: Those are -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You don't do one without
the other.
MR. HAMILTON: Those are two different
propositions, Your Honor. One is if the plan is
confirmed and one if it is not confirmed. If it is not
confirmed, then you are correct; at some point the
trustee and the court are going to want to see a
Schedule I and J to see what the actual income and
expenses are. If the plan has already been confirmed,
then the ability to change the plan has to be done under
1329, which is -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Forget about 1329. I'm
going to the situation where the plan has been proposed,
let's say. The courts -- if a schedule of income has
been filed, then it's without any jurisdiction to change
the 6-month lookback period, correct?
MR. HAMILTON: I don't agree with the word
"jurisdiction," Justice Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it can't under
101(10A).
MR. HAMILTON: The debtor would certainly
have the ability to ask the court to be excused from
that requirement given a change in circumstances. But
again it would be the formula that would be honored,
rather than the court substituting judicial discretion.
If there -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I ask -- yes, there is
one more question.
MR. HAMILTON: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I ask whether 1323,
which you have now invoked, does not provide the same
kind of discretion to the court that you are objecting
to?
What -- what standards are there for
granting or not granting modification of the plan? Is
it pretty much up to the judge?
MR. HAMILTON: No. I believe again the
court is bound, Justice Scalia, by the 101(10A) formula.
It's obvious that Congress intended the formula. It
would not make much sense to read the statute to have
some other formula.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then -- then -- okay.
You are between a rock and a hard place. Either 1323
gets you out of that formula, which is what you've said,
it's one way out, or it isn't. Which is it?
MR. HAMILTON: I haven't said that it gets
me out of the formula. It gets me out of the time frame
issue, because certainly the statute doesn't take into
specific account what happens if the debtor loses a job,
say, post-petition? Obviously -- example, husband loses
the job at Goodyear after the bankruptcy petition is
filed. And I think 1323 is broad enough to allow an
amendment which would involve only moving the time
frame.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. So any -- any
amendment has to relate to a period -
MR. HAMILTON: I believe so, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- subsequent to the
filing.
MR. HAMILTON: If there are no other
questions I would like to reserve the remainder of my
time, Chief Justice Roberts.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Goldstein.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The Court, I think, has the parties'
arguments very well in hand. I think the -- the one
point that I can hopefully address, and it is I think
the hardest part of our case, is to address the issue
that Justice Alito raised, and that is, is there an
anomaly in the fact that in BAPCPA Congress added the
6-month period, which would suggest perhaps that
Congress was trying to lock in a particular period that
we would look at.
And the answer to that question is no, and I
want to take you to the relevant statutory provisions.
Everything is going to be in the cert petition. I am
going to start in the petition appendix at 91, which is
1325, which is the operative provision here. And
1325(b)(1) tells us that if the trustee or a creditor
objects, then as of the effective date of the plan it's
only going to be confirmed in subsection (b), which is
the third full paragraph on page 91 is going to control.
The plan has to provide that all of the
debtor's projected disposable income to be received in
the applicable commitment period beginning on the date
the first payment is due under the plan will be applied
to make payments to unsecured creditors under the plan.
And the thing to note first about that
provision is that it, too, sets a timetable. It's not
just projected disposable income, but it's projected
disposable income of a very particular type, to be
received in the applicable commitment period. So unless
there is something particularly strange about the
definition of "disposable income," Congress specified a
period that the income is going to be measured in, and
that's over the course of the plan; the word "projected"
tells us to get a realistic estimation of what that
amount of money's going to be.
Now, my friend makes the point that
disposable income after BAPCPA is a defined term; the
definition comes in the next paragraph; it's subsection
(2), 1325(b)(2). For purposes of this subsection the
term "disposable income" means current monthly income
received by the debtor subject to some deductions and
then the expenses. So then we have to go to the
definition of "current monthly income." Current monthly
income is in 101; it's at page 83.
That's where we get the 6-month period. And
it tells us that current monthly income is the average
monthly income from all sources, so it's very
encompassing, without regard to whether such income is
taxable income derived during the 6-month period.
So, my friend's argument is that, well,
Congress said 6 months. The answer to that point is a
couple fold. First, as was suggested in the first
half-hour, Congress was addressing a very specific
problem there. Before BAPCPA courts didn't know what
the -- didn't agree on what the baseline was for
determining someone's income.
Some courts would say, all right, you are a
Chapter 13 debtor, right away I'm going to look at the
latest month. Some courts said 6 months. We have a
court in our brief that said 4 years. So, we have to
have a starting point to project from.
But the second point is that this term
"current monthly income" isn't principally a Chapter 13
term at all. So, my friend's argument is that Congress
stuck this 6-month period into Chapter 13, so it would
be very anomalous if we could just -- in effect, he says
we are throwing it out, we are giving the district
judges discretion. It's not quite right.
The place to look is in section 707, which
is two pages later. 707 is a Chapter 7 provision. And
my friend started out by saying the problem with our
position is that we were not following the Chapter 7
means test. That's the key. This term is really a -
borrowed from Chapter 7. So 707(b)(2)(A)(i) is at the
beginning of page 85 of the appendix.
And, so, we are in a Chapter 7 case here.
And this is the means test. It tells us that: "In
considering under paragraph 1," so we are trying to
figure out if there is a presumption of abuse under
Chapter 7 -- "whether the granting of relief would be an
abuse of the provisions of this chapter, the court shall
presume abuse exists if the debtor's current monthly
income, reduced by the amounts determined under clauses
2, 3, and 4" -- those are expense clauses -- "and
multiplied by 60 is not less than" a certain amount.
So what happened is Congress in BAPCPA
created this presumption of abuse in Chapter 7 and it
then borrowed that concept, as my friend pointed out, in
Chapter 13. So that 6-month period has real force and
effect in the Bankruptcy Code in Chapter 7. So it's not
like Congress in Chapter 13 fixed the 6-month period,
which would give -- have a sort of a gravitational pull.
You wouldn't want to throw that out too lightly.
Justice Sotomayor, I do agree that we ought
to be pretty -- we ought to stick to it. It indicates
Congress is concerned with the 6-month period. But it's
not like Congress added to Chapter 13 this 6-month
concept. It added it to Chapter 7, where it's in full
force and effect.
Can I make one other point about that
language, just to repeat it again? That the courts
are -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you -- you have lost
me.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is the 6-month -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. It's back. We have
to go back two pages.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I got -- I got it
there.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Sure. I'm sorry.
The term is "current monthly income." So we are in
Chapter 7, so four lines down". "The court shall
presume abuse exists if the debtor's current monthly
income" -- that's the 6 months, current monthly income.
That's the 6-month period of income.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I -- I see. I see.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: See, that's mostly where it
matters. Then Congress borrowed it in Chapter 13. But
it didn't get rid of, as was pointed out before, the
term -- "projected"; it didn't get rid of the period,
the commitment period.
But I do want to point out something very
particular about this language. Here's the phrase:
"Current monthly income, reduced by the amounts
determined under clauses 2, 3, and 4" -- those are
expenses -- "and multiplied by 60." That's what my
friend says the phrase "projected disposable income to
be received over the applicable commitment period" is.
Our point is that if Congress intended that
mechanical formulation, it would have used the exact
words that I have just read from you in Chapter 7,
because that's mechanical.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Without the word
"projected"?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Without the word
"projected"?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's exactly. They used
"multiplied." And Congress did that several times in
BAPCPA and before BAPCPA. When Congress wanted, look,
we are going to have a mathematical formula, it used a
mathematical formula.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't you follow
his suggestion and just move the 6-month period, because
the statute specifically grants that authority to the
judge?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. Let me make a few
points about that, sir. So I'll again read the language
again. So we are on 83. It says that -- little (ii) is
going to be -- it's going to be "6 months ending on the
date on which current income is determined by the court
for purposes of this title if the debtor does not file
the schedule of current income."
A couple OF points about that.
Justice Alito, you were right, this is a one-way pro
debtor ratchet, right. The creditor and the trustee, if
the debtor a month before confirmation gets a new job or
their expenses go down -- let's say you had a car, but
you know that the car payments are going to be done.
Under the trustee's view, then you still get to count
the car payments which are totally pretend, or if you
got a much higher paying job.
In fact, in this case she did get a higher
paying job. Towards the end of the period, she got a
raise. And we say that has to be counted, too. We have
to have a debtor and creditor-neutral provision. In a
statute that's designed to make sure the debtor pays a
much as possible to her creditors, it's very strange to
put this entirely in the debtor's hands.
JUSTICE ALITO: Can I ask you this. There
seems to be at least a subtle difference between your
position and the government's position. You say that
the projected disposable income will be different from
the disposable income calculated during the lookback
period when it is known or virtually certain that there
will be differences in income or expenses. And the
government says that there is a difference when
something is likely to occur in the future.
Where do you -- where do you get from the
statute your known or virtually certain differences?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The contrast between 1325
and 1329. What I tried to do in my brief, and I have
laid it out at the beginning of the argument section.
That's where we try to articulate our rule. What we
have done is we have looked at the cases. As you
pointed out, this is pre-BAPCPA practice. Courts have
set a pretty high bar, both in terms of the level of
certainty and the degree of deviation.
And courts have said -- I will give you an
example that will illustrate the difference perhaps.
You have times when someone expects to get a raise.
They don't know that they are going to get it, or they
expect to get a promotion. And courts will say, even if
that's pretty likely, until you have actually got it we
are not going to count it for purposes of 1325(b); come
back under 1329.
And we point out in our merits brief that in
fact, it's not quite on point, but she got a settlement
post-confirmation here, and under 1329 that money was
applied.
So, Justice Scalia, there are
post-confirmation events, but if you know ahead of
time -- and this case is a perfect example, it -- we
know she is not going to get another buyout from Payless
Shoe Stores. When it's known or virtually certain, we
think that is sufficient -- akin to Justice Sotomayor's
point about, you know, making it hard.
Let me make one other point. I wanted to
finish off my answer to the Chief Justice about 101.
This provision has taken on greater significance in the
oral argument and the reply brief of the Petitioner. I
did want to point out to the Court a provision that is
not reproduced in the parties' briefs, but if the Court
were to go this route it would want to be aware of, and
that's 521(i).
And 521(i) tells us that you do have to file
the forms at the beginning or you have to file them
within 45 days, but upon request of the debtor made
within 45 days after the date of filing the petition,
the court may allow the debtor an additional period of
not to exceed 45 days. So it does seem to constrain the
power of the bankruptcy court to shift this period all
around.
So, I have made two points. One is it's a
one-way ratchet for the debtor; second, it's not
unlimited.
The third is it just doesn't make any sense.
Why would Congress design a system that would have all
of these machinations. If we agree that Congress
wants -- it seems my friend and I agree that Congress
believes that she shouldn't have to make the payments
that would be required under the trustee's reading of
"projected disposable income." The question is how we
get there. The trustee's answer is that you are
required by the text; I'm sorry, Congress took this
option away.
And I think that, as I have explained, the
term "projected disposable income to be received in the
applicable commitment period" really is not language
that you would ordinarily construe to ignore changes
that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I think -- I
think that's exactly right when you look at term
"projected disposable income."
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if you look as
"disposable income" -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- as a defined term
and then add "projected," I think it's a different -
different -- different argument, different kettle of
fish. I mean, because particularly in a statute
intended to restrict discretion, it's a way to do it.
You look at it in the abstract, "projected disposable
income," it doesn't achieve that objective.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: And that is exactly,
Mr. Chief Justice, why I started with the definition of
"current monthly income in the 6-month period." I agree
that it is an important point. It is their strongest
argument.
My only point is that I have explained, I
think, why Congress put the 6-month period in for
purposes of Chapter 7 and also to have the starting
point. If I -- to give you an example, take inflation.
If we were to define inflation as the amount in the rise
in prices over the previous 6 months, if Congress did
that in a statute and then told us to look at projected
inflation, we would still not ignore things that will
tell us that there are going to be -- there has been an
oil price spike or an increase in health care costs. It
would take a pretty firm, firm period that told us to
only look into the past and not look into the future,
particularly when the whole point of the statute is to
make sure that the money goes into the creditor's hands
that the debtor is able to pay.
On the point of discretion, I should also
say BAPCPA as a whole was intended to reduce discretion.
And, so, it's kind of odd to say that the answer to our
position is to turn to all of these other discretionary
provisions -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if you -- you
wanted to achieve your friend's result and you had a
definition of disposable income, and you wanted the
court to -- you don't want to say project that forward,
what -- what word would be more natural than saying
projected?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I -- I -- I would use the
language that Congress did in 707. Remember, the
current monthly income reduced by the amounts determined
under clauses 2, 3, and 4 and multiplied by 60.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, that's altering
disposable income -- the definition of disposable
income. I'm asking isn't the most natural word to
achieve your friend's result to use projected. What
other word would you say when you say this is the period
you look at and you want to take it forward?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Multiply. And Congress did
that a bunch of times. Projected -- if we try to
project something, we try and make the -- and everybody
agrees on the definition, so really, it's not an unusual
term. It is: You make your best estimate of the future
based on the data you have now. My friend is right.
One piece of data we have now is her previous 6 months'
income. Another piece of data is we know that she's not
going to have the same income in the future.
If there are no further questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
Ms. Harrington.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SARAH HARRINGTON
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING RESPONDENT
MS. HARRINGTON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
In bankruptcy, as in many areas of the law,
Congress has tried to balance on the one hand, doing
case-specific justice, and on the other hand, ensuring
that the statutory scheme is administrable. Now,
Congress certainly could have chosen to elevate
simplicity over accuracy by telling bankruptcy courts to
take a debtor's current disposable income and multiply
that number by the number of months in the plan in
assessing whether the plan is confirmable. But there
are several strong signals in the code that that is
actually not what Congress intended courts to do.
JUSTICE ALITO: But do you think bankruptcy
courts are supposed to be economic forecasters? For
example, if you -- after calculating the debtor's income
during the 6-month period, the 6-month lookback period,
should the bankruptcy court said, well -- say: Well,
it's -- inflation is projected to be such-and-such over
the term of this plan, so I am just going to increase it
by the amount of inflation; or: This person works in a
particular industry where historically, over the last
five years or ten years, there's been a 3 percent
increase in salary per year, so I'm going to multiply it
by -- multiply the disposable income figure like that?
MS. HARRINGTON: Certainly not,
Justice Alito. Bankruptcy -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why not? You say that
the bankruptcy courts should take into account things
that are likely to occur in the future.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, bankruptcy courts -
we are not saying that bankruptcy courts should ever
speculate about what might happen in the future. What
we are saying is that bankruptcy courts should take into
account what they know, in this case, already has
happened, but also what they know will happen. And so
to give an example of a change that would benefit
creditors, if as -- as I mentioned earlier, if a debtor
has secured a higher-paying job just before or just
after she filed her petition, a Court should be able to
take into account the fact that her income going forward
would be greater than would be reflected in the
calculation of her current disposable income.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, "know will happen" is
quite different from "likely to happen," and I thought
your test was likely to happen.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, likely to happen
based on what you know now. I think -- we haven't
suggested a particular burden of proof. I think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not -- not likely, based on
what you know. Well, that's quite different from you
know it will happen.
MS. HARRINGTON: Right. So there is an
example mentioned earlier: If the debtor is repaying a
loan to her 401(k) program, that is the type of loan
that can't be extended time-wise. And so she will keep
making those payments, which will be deducted as an
expense in the calculation of her current disposable
income, but -- but you know at a certain point, she is
likely to stop making those payments.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there a difference
between your test and the Respondent's test?
MS. HARRINGTON: Not according to what I
heard Mr. Goldstein say at the argument. Again, we do
not mean to suggest that a court should use -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: His words were "known to
a virtual certainty," which are -- likely to happen is
different than likely to happen.
MS. HARRINGTON: I think, in part, it
depends on what type of change you are talking about.
Again, we would never say that a court should speculate
about what should happen. But, for instance, to take
another example on the expense side, if a debtor when
she proposes her plan owns a second home, a vacation
home that is secured by a mortgage, then that secured
debt payment is an expense that would be deducted from
her income in the calculation of her current disposable
income. But if she proposes to surrender that property
as a condition of her plan, she will no longer have that
debt payment going forward. And so that's the type
of -- so it will no longer be an expense going forward.
Under Petitioner's view, a court would not be able to
take into account the fact that that current expense -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- that's "know will
happen." That is "know will happen." But I don't know
how you can, at one and the same time, say: Courts
shall not speculate, and then say that the test is
"likely to happen."
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, again, in this -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, to -- you know, to
look forward and say: Is it likely or not likely?
That's speculation. I don't know a better definition of
speculation, to tell you the truth.
MS. HARRINGTON: Okay. But then, we
wouldn't -- we are not trying to advance that view of
"likely." And again, in this case the change had
already occurred, so there is no uncertainty about what
her situation is now and what we can project it to be
going forward.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems to me that,
particularly since you are adopting a fairly broad -
well, depending on how broad a theory you are adopting
of what's projected and what's not, that you are taking
into account a lot of things that are more properly
taken into account when it comes to whether the plan
should be confirmed or not.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, this is -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's going to
happen? What's the situation going to be? What should,
you know, the creditors get? What should the debtor
get? There is no reason to kind of shoehorn those into
the projected disposable income.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, except that if the
creditor or a trustee objects, then the calculation of
projected disposable income is one of the conditions of
confirmability of the plan. The court can't confirm it
unless it can -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, is that -- I
mean, let's say your friend wins up to the point and
somebody else, when it gets to confirmation, can say:
Well, look, you know, there was this big payout before
the filing. So don't confirm it. We know she has got
all this -- all this other money. That -- it could do
it that way, couldn't it?
MS. HARRINGTON: I'm sorry, if she got a
higher-paying job just before? Is that what you're
suggesting?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, whatever the
situation is, can't that be taken into account when it
comes to confirmation?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, it could affect the
-- well, one thing that is important to note that hasn't
been brought up is under Section 1325(a)(6), the court
is actually -- which is the feasibility provision -- the
Court is actually required to think about what is going
to happen in the future, whether a debtor is going to be
able to repay her creditors. And so it doesn't make
very much sense to, on the one hand, require a court to
consider what it knows will happen in the future in
determining feasibility, and then on the other hand, if
there's an objection by the creditor or the trustee and
1325(b) comes into play, to prohibit a court from
considering the same facts it knows about what is going
to happen in the future -
JUSTICE ALITO: What if the debtor is a
waiter and during the last month of the 6-month period,
because of some change of the economy the waiter's tips
have gone up either way up or way down? What's the
court supposed to do then?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, I think one purpose
of having the 6-month lookback period in the calculation
of current income is exactly to take into account those
situations. There are many people who are gainfully
employed full time, but whose -- whose income fluctuates
over time. And so requiring that courts use the 6-month
lookback period, I think, gives creditors a better sense
of whether the current income figure provided by the
debtor is accurate. It reduces the chance for strategic
filing because it sort of takes some of the significance
away of the time of filing.
And so it seems fairer in that case to
consider that 6-month average in a case where income
fluctuates up and down as an accurate sense of what the
-- what the debtor's current income is. And again, in
many -- in a significant number of cases the calculation
of a current disposable income will be a good prediction
of what the debtor's disposable income will be going
forward.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you deal with the
Petitioner's -- the two arguments Petitioner makes? One
is that on the expense side, Congress provided for
special circumstances, exceptions, and it didn't on the
income side?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, the special
circumstances exception comes in, in the calculation of
the debtor's current disposable income, but it doesn't
tell you what to do in terms of projecting that
disposable income. And so you can adjust what you think
the current disposable income is based on an expense
that isn't accounted for in the standard expenses or an
expense that is accounted for, but is higher than is
accounted for in those expenses. But again, it doesn't
tell you what to do -- how to project that number going
forward.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the argument
that this is a simple thing; she didn't have to file the
plan -- she didn't have to file the petition at a time
when those two months would be in the 6-month lookback.
She could have waited.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, that is certainly
true of this debtor, of the Respondent in this case.
That is not an option available to all debtors, many of
whom are facing foreclosure proceedings or imminent
foreclosure proceedings. Delay is simply not an option.
And if I could address Section
101(10A)(A)(ii) option that the Petitioner offers -- I
mean, one thing to note is it doesn't give the Court the
discretion to set any other -- to just pick any other
6-month lookback period. They pick a date and go 6
months back from whatever that date is. So if a change
occurs very soon before the filing of the petition, it
makes it very hard for a court to use that provision to
change the lookback period because you would have to
wait 6 months, essentially, after the filing of the
petition to set it back.
But again, the biggest problem with using
that section as a workaround is that that is an option
that is available to debtors, but not to creditors. If
a debtor files a Chapter 13 petition along with all the
Schedules that are required under Section 521 of the
code, then the debtor has no option for -- excuse me,
the creditor has no option and the trustee has no
option -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the creditor
has the option of objecting the confirmation of the
plan.
MS. HARRINGTON: They can object to
confirmation of the plan, but on what -- what basis? If
the Petitioner argues that the calculation of projected
disposable income is merely a mechanical multiplication
of the current disposable income times 60 or 36, then
they have no way of allowing the court to take account
of a change that has happened just before or after the
time of the petition that would inure to the creditor's
benefit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They can't say: I
object because the 6-month period is unrepresentative
because of this particular event?
MS. HARRINGTON: They could say that, but
it's not clear in the code that that is a basis for
refusing to confirm a plan. I think they would have to
make the argument that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does the government
have a position on that?
MS. HARRINGTON: I think unless there were
bad faith it's not clear how that can be a basis for not
confirming a plan, and that was the -- the reason that
my friend on Petitioner's counsel suggested. But again,
it's not clear how that would be bad faith, if a debtor
proposes a plan that -- that commits all of her
projected disposable income under the trustee's view of
what that number is, it's hard to see how you could say
that that was a plan that was proposed in bad faith.
So again, I just want to -- just to respond
to the -- the argument that the government in
Respondent's view reads the 6-month period totally out
of the code -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can finish the
sentence.
MS. HARRINGTON: Okay. The calculation of
a -- a debtor's current disposable income will often be
a reliable predictor of her future disposable income and
when that's the case, then a reliable way of projecting
is simply be multiplying.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Ms.
Harrington.
MS. HARRINGTON: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Hamilton, you
have two minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAN HAMILTON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. HAMILTON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
First of all, I want to note that the plan
is not confirmed in this case; this was an interlocutory
appeal. There is an amended order at the BAP level that
allows it as an interlocutory appeal. So the debtor
still has preconfirmation options, rather than having to
rely upon 1329 or something else in the record.
Secondly I want to point out that 1325 as
has been suggested by Justice Ginsburg only incorporates
a part of 707(b), and the part it doesn't incorporate is
the special circumstances on the income side. It only
incorporates special circumstances on the expense side.
The significance of that is that what has been
substituted for special circumstances on the income side
is the 101(10A) formula minus certain expenses from
707(b).
The certain expenses from 707(b) are not a
wild card. They are IRS standards in certain other
specially defined circumstances. The idea that this
would allow a phantom car payment -- no, we don't think
so. There is language in that section that says that
the expenses have to be applicable and actual.
And one case recently decided in the Ninth
Circuit, the Ransom case, says that. You have to look
at the language in 707(b) in order to determine the
propriety of the expenses, which has nothing to do with
the applicability of the 6-month time frame.
What the government and what the Respondent
choose to do here is to basically gut the entire means
test based upon one word, and that's "projected." And
they choose to use an undefined term "projected" over
the statutory language that Congress chose to determine
what debtors should pay to their creditors, and it's a
congressional choice. And as many commentators have
suggested, if there is a remedy here, it is a
congressional remedy and not a judicial remedy.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 10:55 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
13:16 31:23,24 alternative 10:5 37:16 51:21 48:13,18
24:13,20 addition 14:23 ambiguous application 4:5 bad 49:24 50:2,6
26:6 19:9 10:20 applied 12:3,10 balance 40:17
19:11,22 address 28:5,6 amended 19:2 apply 11:17 21:13
24:8 39:2 48:8 24:14,14 25:4 approach 9:23 bankruptcy
43:20 addressing 30:4 51:3 area 17:7,8 3:13,14 4:13
adjust 21:6,15 amendment areas 16:21 17:6 6:8,24 7:25
52:15 adjustment amendments argued 15:23 16:9 18:24
32:15 44:15 amount 3:25 27:24 30:1,15 41:20,22
23:1 affect 45:19 38:17 41:9 43:2 47:23 29:13 30:5
16:5 agree 8:9 9:12 33:1 39:16 arguments 28:4 39:4
31:20 37:6,7 21:23 articulate 35:11 barely 21:10
agrees 19:12 anomalous assess 7:9 40:4 42:11,13
17:24 ahead 36:4 anomaly 19:25 assessment 7:8 baseline 30:6
27:8 akin 36:8 28:8 8:9 basically 52:3
42:4 Alito 6:23 7:22 answer 10:6,15 Assistant 1:19 basis 24:21 49:6
44:17,18 8:8,20 9:2,13 11:23 16:18 authority 33:22 49:18,24
46:15 12:20 17:11,16 18:22 28:12 available 14:23 beginning 28:23
17:18 18:5,13 30:2 36:11 22:8 48:5,21 31:1 35:10
28:7 34:7,22 appeal 51:3,4 avenues 8:25 behalf 1:15,17
allow 8:6 16:19 APPEARAN... 29:22 46:25 40:12 50:24
51:19 appeared 3:24 avoiding 10:5 26:21 27:16
25:17 12:16 23:13 applicability best 7:12 40:3
52:1 B better 44:5
card 51:17 12:24 37:17 49:18,24 50:2 15:6,7 17:14
19:17 20:14 20:13,15 22:3 40:25 48:24 confirming
32:20 31:2 34:15 31:6,7,13,15 comes 16:5,8 11:14,19 13:2
30:11 51:2,22,23 Chief 3:3,9 14:6 commends 10:4 31:12,17,22,23
36:13 52:13,14 14:11,12,19 commentators 32:20 33:6,16
40:18 37:19,23 38:1 32:23 33:5 47:9 52:6
45:21 cert 28:14 40:9,14 44:13 commits 50:3 52:8,10
42:22 51:14,16 52:12 31:14,24 13:4
choice 52:8 concerned 31:22 consider 46:2,25
26:5 27:7 chosen 18:20 conditions 45:3 constrain 36:23
48:3 circuit 3:11 11:5 45:4,10 49:19 construe 37:17
43:5 circumstance 45:4 8:17
42:6,21 change 6:17,17 circumstances 18:7 21:23 continue 7:4
45:2 9:3 10:9,10 10:7 12:5 16:1 40:24 continued 14:5
47:3,13 14:20 15:18 18:3 19:19 confirmation contrast 35:8
50:13 16:1 25:19,24 20:4 24:12 5:20,24 6:2,3 control 28:20
43:8 44:9 51:10,11,13,18 14:4,4 21:21 converted 22:10
changes 7:1 12:5 10:11 21:12 confirmed 12:17 counsel 10:3
40:9 42:1 44:23 26:5 27:8 29:25 6:20 39:6
52:12 45:25 46:19 29:17 30:9 design 37:5 discussed 22:9
creditor's 39:1 36:20,22 37:2 detailed 7:23,24 23:23
34:6 34:18 45:24 46:8,21 determine 7:10 disposable 7:1
5:1,13,18 40:12 debtors 48:5,21 51:24 52:6 14:14 16:20
6:17,20 current 7:21 52:7 determined 31:9 17:8 25:2
7:8,25 8:13,14 13:3 debtor's 7:2,9 33:2 34:3 28:22 29:3,4,7
10:7 17:17 23:16 9:5,21 23:19 39:16 29:13,16 33:4
13:1 25:6 29:16,19 24:12 28:22 determining 34:25 35:1
16:9 18:6 29:19,22 30:14 31:8 32:15 7:11 14:17,18 37:10,15,21,24
23:5,11 31:8 32:13,15 34:21 40:22 30:7 46:3 38:6 39:10,19
25:4,16 32:16 33:1 41:4 47:2,5,14 deviate 10:7 39:19 40:22
34:3,5 38:10 50:14 13:1 41:13 42:6,21
30:11 39:16 40:22 decided 51:22 deviation 13:7 43:15 44:25
32:14 42:6,21 43:15 deducted 42:20 35:15 45:3 47:4,5,14
36:14,15 43:21 46:15,20 43:14 devise 8:5 47:16,17 49:8
39:11 47:2,4,14,17 deductions devote 12:13 49:9 50:4,14
41:6 49:9 50:14 29:17 difference 16:2 50:15
43:3,9,20 cuts 11:11 define 38:17 34:23 35:4,17 dispute 12:4
defined 7:21 42:24 disputes 24:25
D 10:21 29:13 differences 35:3 distorted 3:23
49:10 D 3:1 38:1 51:18 35:7 district 5:21
20:19 date 4:18 14:1,2 8:13 12:3 17:5 doing 40:17
30:5,8 17:24 19:23 defining 14:14 25:12 34:25 drastic 9:25
32:2 22:2 28:18,23 definition 11:4 38:2,3,3,3 42:8 driving 20:23
34:3 36:21 11:24 29:7,14 42:14 43:6 drop 22:16
41:1,3 48:12,13 29:19 38:9 disagree 16:23 24:17
days 36:20,21,23 39:10,19 40:2 disagreed 12:9 due 28:24
46:18 deal 47:7 44:5 discharge 20:2 D.C 1:8,17,20
34:8 9:6,10 12:12 depart 7:6 15:11 16:19 economic 41:3
46:4 12:18,20 13:15 Department 17:5,7 22:25 economy 46:10
49:2 13:19 14:23,25 1:20 23:4,10 26:9 effect 20:10
6:1 13:16 18:1,7,17,18 depends 16:15 38:5 39:3,4 effective 28:18
19:6,7,22 17:15 43:8 48:11 efforts 7:12
34:20 23:18,18 24:2 derived 23:20 discretionary either 24:21,22
25:5 27:2 46:11
35:20 31:5 41:13 Forget 25:21
expense 5:12 8:21,22 19:25 formerly 8:16 gainfully 46:16
11:7 21:24 27:11 42:3 11:1,16,17,18 13:13,18,25
7:4 8:10 33:3 34:10 filing 4:18,19,25 22:21,21 26:8 20:5,11,17
48:17 35:3 47:18,20 6:8 7:2 9:7 26:22,23,25 21:18 22:13,19
16:10 explain 3:20 5:2 19:23 24:4,22 33:19 51:14 47:23 51:8
extend 5:14 48:17 10:23 38:16 41:25
6:16 13:12 first 3:4,19 4:10 44:12 47:6,22 giving 30:18
38:8 28:24 29:1 32:14 48:12
F 30:3,3 51:1 frame 6:8,10,10 goes 39:1
24:2 fact 9:4 14:13 fit 14:5 18:23 24:15 27:6,13 10:23 17:19
35:17 17:4 28:8 five 41:11 52:1 18:3,24 19:1
38:16 34:15 35:25 fixed 15:24 frames 5:23 20:24 21:13,24
42:17 42:4 43:21 31:17 friend 29:12 24:3,5,8 25:16
factors 11:6 fixing 15:6 30:22 31:14 25:22 28:14,15
faith 9:18,19,20 followed 19:6,6 full 28:20 31:24 40:7 41:8,12
49:24 44:12,21,22
46:6 19:14 20:8,17 42:2 45:14 29:24,25 30:7 interpretation
21:2,16,22 historically 30:14 31:9 8:3
27:23,24 23:15 24:10 home 43:12,13 33:1,4 34:3,5 20:20
32:6,8,12 25:9,12 26:1,5 Honor 6:7,19 34:25 35:1,3 introduced 25:1
33:12,15 26:13,21 27:5 7:17 9:11 37:10,15,21,24 inure 49:12
35:8 27:16,19 50:21 14:16 16:12 38:7,10 39:10 invoked 26:15
38:8 50:23,25 18:11 25:13 39:16,19,20 involve 27:12
43:2 hand 28:4 40:17 honored 26:8 40:6,7,22 41:4 involved 11:9
11:3,4 hands 34:21 husband 27:9 42:22 43:15,16 issue 12:15 27:7
16:17 39:1 44:25 45:3 28:6
24:2,21 happen 41:21,24 I 46:15,17,20,25
42:7,8,9,10,15 idea 6:6 51:18 47:2,4,5,11,14 J
49:21 happened 4:9 ii 23:22 34:1 incongruous 2:11 3:7 50:23
52:2 31:12 41:24 illustrate 35:17 5:15 job 9:8 24:4,6,7
happens 4:7,8 18:9 incorporates 34:14,16 42:2
31:6 hard 27:2 36:9 important 11:16 increase 9:5,25 joint 23:18
Harrington 1:19 inadequate indicate 19:18 18:24 19:12
40:14 41:14,19 incapable 11:4 indication 7:5 judges 3:17
49:5,17 7:10,19,20,20 38:17,20 41:7 52:10
3:4,6,7 hear 3:3 17:2 12:14 13:3,4,5 inserting 3:15 justice 1:20 3:3
4:8 5:8,22 heard 43:2 13:12 14:17,21 instance 43:10 3:9 4:3,10 5:2
7:7 8:8,23 hearing 5:24 6:2 15:20 16:20 instructed 5:7 5:17,23 6:13
10:15 6:4,12 14:2,4 17:8 21:24 intended 3:14 6:23 7:22 8:8
11:23 24:16 22:18 23:16,17 7:3 22:23,24 8:20 9:2,13
14:3 held 6:3 23:20,20 24:2 26:23 33:6 10:3,15,19,25
high 4:6 35:14 24:6,17,19 38:5 39:4 41:1 11:11,23 12:20
16:3 higher 34:14,15 25:2,6,7,17,23 interests 10:13 13:6,13,18,23
47:19 28:22 29:3,4,7 interlocutory 13:25 14:6,11
higher-paying 29:8,13,16,16 51:2,4 14:12,19 15:3
19:3 29:19,20,22,23 15:8,9,14,22
42:11,14,15,22 longer 17:22 meeting 5:19 6:1 morning 3:4
17:3,11 43:22,23,23 43:17,19 mentioned 42:1 mortgage 43:13
18:5 44:3,5,23 45:9 look 9:9 28:11 42:17 move 4:25 8:11
45:10 30:9,20 33:17 merely 49:8 13:10,15,23
20:5,11 known 17:13 37:20,23 38:6 merits 35:24 14:1,1,7 15:6
21:1,4,5 22:5 35:2,7 38:19,24,24 met 20:3 19:11 23:13
22:13 36:7 43:4 39:23 44:4 Midkiff 12:8 24:15 33:21
23:2,7,8 knows 46:2,6 45:9 51:23 mind 14:14 moveable 6:11
24:10 lookback 3:20 minus 51:14 6:13
L 3:22 4:11,17 minute 12:15 moved 5:23 6:10
laid 35:10 4:24,25 6:15 minutes 50:22 13:17
27:1,14 language 6:21 9:7,9 25:25 misunderstood moving 14:20
23:24 32:2,25 35:1 41:5 19:4 19:8 23:6 24:1
31:20 33:25 37:16 46:14,19 48:1 modification 24:9 27:12
39:15 51:20,24 48:12,16 12:16 17:19 multiplication
52:6 looked 35:12 26:19 49:8
36:3,8 Lanning 1:6 3:5 loses 24:4 27:8,9 modified 11:18 multiplied 31:11
37:19,23 3:11,18 losing 18:2 17:12,12 33:3,16 39:17
39:8,18 Lanning's 22:4 lost 32:4 modify 7:25 multiply 39:24
largely 8:18 lot 20:6 44:17 10:17 18:9 40:22 41:12,13
latest 30:10 lots 23:4 22:6 multiplying
Laughter 17:10 low 24:6 moment 3:20 50:17
44:3 laundry 11:5 Monday 1:9
45:6 law 8:16 11:8 M money 21:14 N
46:8 12:4 20:19 machinations 36:1 39:1 N 2:1,1 3:1
49:2 40:16 10:4 37:6 45:11 narrow 10:6
50:11 lawsuit 19:21 making 18:18 money's 29:11 natural 39:12,20
leads 8:3 36:9 42:20,23 month 4:19 necessarily
52:12 led 10:20 March 1:9 18:25 30:10 16:12
25:23 mathematical monthly 7:21 8:17 11:7
13:23 line 13:24 21:9 38:4 43:3 33:1 38:10 Neither 13:15
lines 32:14 44:3 45:7 39:16 never 11:25 19:1
26:16 little 20:14 23:22 23:16 29:16 21:13 22:17 Ninth 12:8
44:24 34:1 30:24 31:3 30:2,10 32:16 51:22
35:19 42:18 measured 29:8 40:5,23 48:1 48:10 51:1
40:6 lock 28:10 mechanical 33:7 48:13,17 number 23:3
42:7 long 24:7 33:9 49:8 40:23,23 47:3
50:5 27:24 36:13 20:16 21:11 50:24 38:11,13,16,25
28:25 34:11,13 Petitioner's 39:3 42:22
49:5,15 ordinarily 37:17 people 46:16 phrase 32:25 points 10:25
49:3 17:23 31:20,21 perfect 36:5 pick 48:11,12 37:1
performance place 4:10 20:9 position 11:14
page 2:2 28:20 3:24 4:11,17 plain 20:18 possibility 20:12
32:9 13:10,11,15,17 12:16,17,18,21 possibly 4:6 18:7
27:9 paragraph 22:16 23:7,14 16:11 17:11,12 12:6,25 36:1,4
35:5 31:4 24:7,9 25:25 18:16,24 19:2 10:1 22:11
part 4:16,23 5:8 27:15 28:9,10 19:8 20:15 27:9
44:10 10:17 11:10 29:21,25 30:16 22:4 24:4,14 36:24
51:9 33:5,21 34:16 25:19,22 26:19 preceding 21:13
27:1,14 49:16 41:5,5 46:9,14 44:18 45:4 predictor 50:15
44:7 particularly 46:19 48:12,16 47:25 49:4,6 present 12:2
29:6 38:4,25 49:15 50:9 49:19,25 50:3 presume 7:3
36:15 person 41:9 46:5 31:5,13
52:7 27:10 28:14,15 plug 15:17,17 38:23
34:14,16 47:25 48:14,18 17:4 18:1 40:5
49:1,3 Payless 3:23 48:22 49:12 25:15 28:5 previously 3:16
19:13,14 payment 28:24 2:4,12 3:8 30:13 32:1,24 35:13
22:8 43:14,18 51:19 36:13 47:8 33:6 35:24,25 price 38:22
payments 15:13 48:9 49:7 36:9,10,14 prices 38:18
proposition 11:3 raise 34:17 regard 5:15 respect 14:13
7:7 12:4,17 propositions raised 28:7 29:24 respectfully 8:8
4:10 25:13 Ransom 51:23 regime 7:4 16:22
24:2 provide 7:24 26:24 33:8,25 relief 31:6 27:25 40:13
48:19 26:15 28:21 reading 11:12 rely 51:6 48:4 52:2
10:16 46:20 reads 50:9 remaining 50:22 11:14,21 42:25
provides 9:19 realistic 29:10 52:9,10,10 response 21:18
40:1 30:21 34:18 reason 13:14 repaying 42:17 22:11 39:9,21
47:21 36:12,14 45:22 20:18 44:24 repeat 32:2 results 8:4,7
8:3 9:3 provisions 22:3 reasonable 8:15 36:13 review 14:6
11:17,18 28:13 31:7 8:17 11:7 repossession revising 16:10
13:4 39:7 REBUTTAL 19:20 16:11
16:20 pull 31:18 2:10 50:23 representative revision 15:7,10
28:22 purpose 14:20 receive 23:19 4:21 6:9 22:17 15:12
32:22 46:13 received 28:22 reproduced rid 32:21,22
purposes 29:15 29:5,17 33:5 36:15 right 8:22 14:19
37:10,15 34:4 35:22 37:15 request 13:17 24:7 30:8,9,19
38:2,6 38:15 receives 23:18 14:7 36:20 34:7,8 37:20
39:13,21 put 15:5 34:21 recognized 6:25 requested 12:12 40:4 42:16
41:7 38:14 recommend require 46:1 rise 38:17
45:3 13:9 21:25 required 4:1 5:6 Roberts 3:3 14:6
50:4 52:4 Q 8:22 9:10 37:9 14:11,12,19
qualified 20:2 51:6 37:12 45:23 16:17,23 17:3
12:23 16:25 22:25 39:4 requirement 33:20 37:19,23
28:12 37:10 reduces 46:21 5:19 7:20 45:6,16 49:2
50:6 42:8,14 refiled 22:12 reserve 27:20 rule 20:19 35:11
secured 42:2 solve 24:1 starting 30:12 27:17
somebody 45:8 38:15 substantial
40:11 26:24 37:4 17:1 21:16 statute 5:4,6,8 26:9
sentence 50:12 37:12 45:13 11:3 12:15 subtracted 8:15
30:22 sets 29:2 5:23 10:3,15 22:20,24,25 sufficient 36:8
41:20,22 settlement 35:25 10:19 11:1 23:10 26:24 suggest 7:17
9:17 Shoe 36:7 26:2,3 31:20 34:19 35:7 43:3
25:5 shoehorn 44:24 43:4 38:4,19,25 suggested 13:19
33:4 shortly 24:3 Sotomayor's statutes 4:13 30:3 42:12
35:4 show 12:23 36:8 7:15 12:22 50:1 51:8 52:9
15:25 sought 20:18 19:6 21:24 suggesting 45:15
16:8 side 14:15 43:11 29:23 9:1,16 10:8 suggestions 11:8
18:23 47:9,11 51:10 special 20:3 16:4 28:13 suggests 6:21
51:11,13 47:10,12 51:10 40:19 52:6 supporting 1:22
sign 12:12 51:11,13 Stephanie 1:6 2:9 40:13
signals 40:25 specially 51:18 3:11,18 22:4 supposed 5:5
significance specific 27:8 stick 31:21 20:20 41:3
42:7,13 36:12 46:22 30:4 stop 18:21 42:23 46:12
43:22 51:12 specifically 17:7 Stores 36:7 Supreme 1:1,12
significant 47:3 33:22 strange 8:4,7 sure 32:8,12
9:24 25:6 simple 20:18 specified 29:7 strategic 46:21 39:1
47:24 speculate 41:21 strategies 8:6 surrender 43:16
simplicity 40:21 43:9,25 strict 4:5 system 37:5
19:18 15:17 16:10 44:6 strongest 38:11 T
48:23 48:7 50:17 spike 38:22 stuck 30:16 T 2:1,1
8:24 9:3,14 10:23 47:18 subjected 9:22 24:16 27:7
24:18 25:22 44:11,22 standards 26:18 submitted 52:13 28:13 38:16,23
37:2 45:17 51:17 52:15 39:23 40:22
situations 46:16 stands 18:16 subsection 25:1 41:17,22 42:4
45:21 taken 11:6 12:24
44:18 45:23 46:13,19 13:9,9,16 vastly 12:3 17:19
47:16 49:19,23 20:12 21:25 view 11:21 workaround
2:5 27:24 48:25 virtual 43:5 wouldn't 22:13
17:4 18:13 37:9,11 50:4 36:7 wrong 3:12
31:3 throw 31:19 40:1 wait 12:14 48:17 X
throwing 30:18 trying 28:10 waited 48:2 x 1:2,7
30:13 5:22 6:1,7,10 two 4:9,11 10:25 15:20 25:16 years 17:22 18:3
32:13 6:10,14 8:11 17:5 25:12 28:13 31:19 24:3 30:11
37:15,20 14:18,20 19:8 30:21 32:9 32:24 36:14,16 41:11,11
40:3 41:8 22:14,15 23:24 37:1 47:8 48:1 39:11,23 50:7
24:15 27:6,12 50:22 51:1,7
47:15 43:24 46:17,18 43:8,18 33:17 36:10 0
30:24 49:12 52:1 U wants 6:18 37:7
42:9,25 times 33:16 uncertainty Washington 1:8 1
43:25 35:18 39:25 44:10 1:17,20 1 31:4
49:9 undefined 52:5 wasn't 10:10 10:03 1:13 3:2
50:18,20 timing 5:19,24 2:8 4:12 11:5 16:13 20:22 29:20 36:11
52:11,12 tips 46:10 40:12 23:13 24:24 101(10A) 4:12
told 13:6 38:19 unrepresentat... 45:12 46:11,11 8:23 23:15
23:2 tone 11:13 unsecured 13:16 ways 10:5 51:14
45:20 Topeka 1:15 20:14,16 28:25 whim 10:10 101(10A)(A)(ii)
48:10 total 14:8 unusual 40:2 wife's 15:20 48:9
44:17 50:9 urging 20:12 wins 45:7 13:8 16:5
21:25 11:10 20:15 39:14,21 26:1 29:9 11 6:4
27:11 tried 35:9 40:17 43:3 46:18 33:10,13 39:12 12 6:4
36:8 true 8:4 14:22 48:15 52:5 39:20,22 52:4 13 1:3 3:5,12
48:4 wording 5:16 5:25 12:12
41:2 trustee 1:3 3:5 18:4 20:1,15
43:7 9:23 12:12 v 1:5 3:5 12:7,11 33:8 43:4 22:3 24:20
40 2:9 51:16,24
401(k) 17:23 707(b)(2)(A)(i)
48:22 42:18 30:25
12:21 45 36:20,21,23 78 8:16
26:14
5 8
25:1 28:16 50 2:12 83 4:14 29:20
51:7 521 5:10 48:23 34:1
9:19 521(i) 36:17,18 85 31:1
523 5:9
45:21
91 28:15,20
9:17
6 4:5,17 15:24 96 4:14
35:22 21:13 30:2,10
32:16 34:2
7:13 38:18 40:5
28:17 48:12,17
29:15 6-month 3:19,22
22:3 3:24 4:11,17
12:16,16 4:23,25 6:7,15
16:23 8:11 13:15,17
25:20,21 19:8 23:6,14
36:1 23:20,23 24:1
24:9 25:25
12:1 28:9 29:21,25
24:25 30:16 31:15,17
32:7
32:17 33:21
3:19 6:15 38:10,14 41:5
17:22 41:5 46:9,14
22:17 46:18,25 48:1
31:10 48:12 49:15
39:17 50:9 52:1
3:13,14 60 31:11 33:3
7:7 39:17 49:9
1:9
1:9
2:6 7 19:25 20:1,3
22:10,11
30:21,23,25
2:4 31:10 33:2 31:2,6,13,16
41:11 31:24 32:14
49:9 33:8 38:15
30:20,21
39:15
30:11 31:10 707(b) 11:10
39:17 20:4 51:9,15
