IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ARTHUR L. LEWIS, JR., ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 08-974
v. :
CITY OF CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, February 22, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JOHN A. PAYTON, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf of
Petitioners.
NEAL K. KATYAL, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Petitioners.
BENNA RUTH SOLOMON, ESQ., Deputy Corporation Counsel,
Chicago, Illinois; on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JOHN A. PAYTON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
NEAL K. KATYAL, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States,
as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners 15
BENNA RUTH SOLOMON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN A. PAYTON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 08-974, Lewis v. The City of Chicago.
Mr. Payton.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN A. PAYTON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. PAYTON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
On 11 separate occasions, Chicago used an
unlawful cutoff score to determine which applicants it
would hire as firefighters. There's no dispute that
the cutoff score had an adverse impact on qualified
black applicants and was not job-related.
The only question presented is whether each
use of the cutoff score in each of the hiring rounds was
a separate violation of Title VII. An affirmative
answer to that question is both the best reading of the
statute and the soundest policy.
Section 703(k) of Title VII provides that in
a disparate impact case, as this case, an unlawful
employment practice is established -- those are the
words -- "is established" when, quote, "a respondent
uses an employment practice that causes disparate impact
on the basis of race," close quote.
Section 703(h) states that, quote, "a test,
its application, and action upon the results," close
quote, are each violations of Title VII if they are,
quote, "used to discriminate," close quote.
Section 703(a)(2) prohibits racially
discriminatory classifications.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So under your
position, say the City adopts a discriminatory -- takes
a -- issues a discriminatory test; people take it; they
come out with the results; the City says these -- this
is the test we're going to use, but, you know, we don't
have any vacancies. Nobody can sue at that point.
MR. PAYTON: No, no. Our position is that
in fact there was an additional violation when the
classification occurred when the City announced what it
intended to do in the future. That's also a violation.
But if I can make the contrast,
Mr. Chief Justice, when the City -- suppose they didn't
announce anything at all, and what they did was in all
those occasions, the 11 I just described -- they used the
unlawful cutoff score and made hiring decisions.
Title VII's disparate impact looks at the
consequences of decisions like that. And those
consequences, the results of that clearly occur in the
future on those 11 hiring occasions, and then we would
clearly have a cause of action on each of those 11 times.
Now, I'll come back and say that Chicago
announces, before it does any of that, that it intends to
do that in the future. That announcement is an
independent violation, but that announcement does not
change the impact and the consequences that in fact
still would happen in the future when they happen.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There's an independent
violation without an impact? I mean, it's not the
impact provision that you quoted which makes that a
violation. It must be some other provision that makes
it a violation. What other provision is it?
MR. PAYTON: Well, there is an impact. You
mean when the announcement is made?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. PAYTON: When the announcement is
made -- let me make two points: First of all, I believe
we -- you could clearly seek to enjoin Chicago from
doing something unlawful in the future --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure.
MR. PAYTON: -- as you clearly have a cause
of action at the announcement. We know that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's because of
an impending violation.
MR. PAYTON: Because an impending violation --
JUTICE SCALIA: But you say -- you say it is
an actual violation.
MR. PAYTON: Yes. And the question whether
or not the announcement itself is in violation of the
statute, I believe section 703(a)(2) and, actually, all
three provisions, make it unlawful to actually have a
classification that has the effects I just said, and
the effects would simply be in how they were sorting
the results.
So I think there is an impact. It's not the
same impact that ripples through time. And the reason I
said, if they had not made an announcement it's clear
there are consequences that happen in the future each of
those 11 times, there's an additional violation when
they actually use the announcement to say what they
intend to do. They say what they intend to do, and then
they do it. Those are two different violations.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, the language of
the statute of 703 is to "limit, segregate, or
classify."
MR. PAYTON: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So is it your position
that the violation occurs at the classification that's
announced and that every subsequent hiring has limited
someone's opportunity so that they -- there's a
violation subsequently under the limit clause as opposed
to the classification clause, or it's each event is a
classification violation?
MR. PAYTON: It's our position that, in
fact, all three of the sections I quoted from are
implicated in the actions that Chicago took.
Clearly, there's a classification, but when
they actually exclude from actual consideration for any
of the jobs on the 11 occasions, that's a limitation.
It's clearly a limitation. When they use the test
results, that's an action upon the test results. When
they use that to make decisions, that's clearly a
violation of (k).
All three provisions are in fact implicated,
sometimes in similar ways, sometimes in different ways.
All of them have consequences.
And the way disparate impact law works is,
you have an employment practice -- it's always facially
neutral -- that has an adverse impact on the basis of
race that causes there to be a disparate impact and
consequences. We look at consequences, and the elements
of the disparate impact violation are not complete until
we have all of those elements.
JUSTICE ALITO: Your position may -- may follow
from the language of Title VII, but you began by saying
that it also represents the best policy. And I wonder
if you could explain why that is so.
Here, the City of Chicago continued to use
this test for quite a number of years after it was
administered. And so as you interpret the statute, I
gather that someone could still file a disparate impact
claim 6 or 7 years after the test was first administered,
and quite a few years after it was first used in making
a hiring decision. And how can that be squared with
Congress's evident desire in Title VII to require that an
EEOC charge be filed rather promptly after the employment
action is taken?
MR. PAYTON: I think the answer is that this
is completely consistent with how the statute works, but
I'm going to address the policy concern as well. But
how the statute works is, there's a violation every
time there's a use.
If we looked at disparate treatment, there's
a violation every time there's an intention to
discriminate. If there was a future intention to
discriminate, there would be a new violation. So if
there is a next use, there's a next violation. And
that's how that ought to work.
But look at how this worked. Chicago used
an unlawful cutoff score on those 11 occasions to make
decisions. Chicago should have stopped using the
discriminatory cutoff score, and it should have looked at
all of the qualified applicants that it had judged
qualified in making its decisions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If it -- if it stopped using
it, it might be vulnerable to a Rizzo-type suit from the
people who were benefiting.
MR. PAYTON: I actually think that that
conflict is not present. Chicago can always make a
decision that responds to something that was unlawful.
And I think this Court has always made it clear the
standard may be in Ricci, but the law is clearly that if
Chicago has reason to believe -- very good reason to
believe that it is doing something that is unlawful, it
can stop doing something unlawful. That's especially
the case here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought in Ricci that
was New Haven's position, that they thought that the
test was unlawful because of the disparate impact.
MR. PAYTON: I understand. The standard
that may apply to Chicago's decision may be different,
but let me give you the example in this case.
Chicago used a cutoff score that the
district court finds and that their expert who designed
the test told them was problematic, to make decisions
that has nothing job-related about it at all. It's
arbitrary. The group that are qualified are as
qualified as the group that are well qualified and
vice versa. They had available to them the option of
picking randomly from that group, both groups combined,
and making the decisions on a random draw. That is, in
fact, how they made all of the decisions inside of the
groups that they used. That's always available.
Chicago could have done that at any time.
The policy point here, Justice Alito, is
that -- I'd say the animating purpose behind Title VII is,
as this Court has said, the eradication of
discrimination from our workplace. And you want it to
be eradicated. Chicago should not have continued doing
this. And the law ought to say, and I think it does
say, that when they use something that is unlawful, they
can be challenged every time they use something that is
unlawful. If the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How long does the City's
exposure persist? Let's say that the -- in the tenth
round, someone is selected for the job from the
qualified group. And then there's a cutback, and there
are going to be layoffs. So the last hired is the first
fired. Could -- would there be a Title VII suit when
that last hired is laid off, on the ground that if
Chicago had done what it was supposed to do, this person
would have had the job long ago and would be higher up
on the seniority list?
MR. PAYTON: Let me give you two responses
to that.
The first answer is that the statute of
limitations is 300 days after every use, and it's no
longer. So for whatever it is, if you violate
Title VII, the statute of limitations is 300 days. If
there is a use that goes into the future, it's 300 days
after the last use. Right now, Chicago has stopped
using that. The doors are closed. No one else can
challenge this.
To your specific question about how would it
work if there was a layoff arrangement, the proposed --
the remedy order in this case -- it's not in effect
because we are where we are -- but the remedy order in
this case includes shutting down the use of this, but it
also has provisions for seniority to in fact address, I
believe, exactly the circumstances you just described,
Justice Ginsburg. So I believe that is contemplated and
handled in the remedial order.
The issue about the policy here, though, is
that if you don't say that a use, in fact, can be
challenged, a use of something unlawful can be
challenged, what you could end up with here is that
Chicago would then take the message that it's okay once
they are past the first 300 days, and they could just go
on using the discriminatory cutoff score over and over
and over again, and that is inconsistent with the
overall policy of what Title VII is trying to root out
of our economy and in our workplace.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Payton, can I ask this
general question? Am I correct that each firefighter in
the qualified group who did not make the well-qualified
has a cause of action as though he had been refused
employment when anyone else is hired? There were 11
people hired, as I understand. Did each one of those
hirings give everybody else in the class a cause of
action?
MR. PAYTON: The group of the black
qualified applicants that are in the qualified category,
but the qualified category is qualified as the other
category -- every time the city made decisions about
filling jobs in the fire department, it excluded every
single one of those applicants, even though they were
qualified. So every single one was excluded.
So they all have a cause of action because
they were excluded and that clearly fits very easily
within how --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But surely they couldn't
all recover, because there was only one job available.
MR. PAYTON: No. That's correct. That's about
what the remedy would be. So the remedy and -- you know,
obviously wouldn't be to give all of them jobs. That's
not the remedy, and that wasn't the remedy that's
sought -- was sought here. But they were all excluded
from consideration, and that's a violation of Title VII's
disparate impact prohibition. So they all have a cause
of action.
The way the remedy would work --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What is -- what is the
remedy other than saying change your practice? What is
-- say one person sues and asks for damages, what
would the remedy be for a single applicant who was not
hired at the time somebody else was hired?
MR. PAYTON: It may be very little. So if
it's a single applicant who sues and not a class -- this
is a class. So if a single applicant sues, the remedy
would be to stop using the unlawful cutoff score, okay,
and then to figure out what would have happened if that
unlawful cutoff score hadn't have occurred, and that
would have created a very miniscule chance of ever
becoming a firefighter and perhaps turning that into
some sort of damage award, but it would be miniscule.
In the actual event, the award includes some
actual jobs being allocated to the 6,000 members of the
class -- it was 132 -- to be decided upon in some random
way that they would be hired. But that's how it would
work. But they are all clearly injured when they are
all excluded from consideration in all 11 rounds, in
violation of Title VII.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that -- each --
each qualified firefighter who did not get a job because
the well-qualified one did has a new cause of action, I
guess, every time somebody is hired from the -- the
well-qualified pool?
MR. PAYTON: Every time --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In other words,
somebody is hired, that constitutes discrimination
against the qualified black firefighter who was not
hired, and then another -- then somebody else is
hired -- each time it's a new cause of action?
MR. PAYTON: They had 11 rounds of hiring --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. PAYTON: -- that are relevant to this case.
There are other rounds afterwards. They exhaust the first
category. But in the 11 rounds of hiring, when in every one
of those rounds the unlawful cutoff score is used, that is
action upon the results. That is a limitation. You know,
that is the use of something that causes an adverse impact
on the basis of race -- and, yes --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, so they would
have a new cause of action, sure.
MR. PAYTON: That's a cause of action.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, but they -- but
if 300 days go from the first round of hiring, they
don't -- they cannot sort of piggyback that onto a later
cause of action.
MR. PAYTON: Yes, if they sue -- in this
case, the EEOC charge was filed after the second round
of hiring, and in this case then, therefore, no remedy
can take account of the first round of hiring. If they
had sued only on the seventh round of hiring, no remedy
could take account of those forgone opportunities. So,
that would also play out in how the remedial order would
work.
And I think I want to reserve the rest of my
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Katyal.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL K. KATYAL
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS
MR. KATYAL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
As the questions I think reveal, I think the
bottom line question in this case is whether or not
under the text of Title VII there was a present
violation in each of the 11 rounds of hiring when the
City of Chicago relied on its concededly discriminatory
test to exclude the plaintiffs from consideration. And
we think that Title VII has three mutually reinforcing
provisions in it, each of which point to the same
conclusion.
A violation of Title VII occurred in this
case when Chicago, in each of those 11 rounds, used its
hiring practice with -- and caused a disparate impact,
thereby limiting the employment opportunities of certain
applicants. Chicago gave an ability test and relied on
that ability test in a way that Title VII forbids. It
took action upon the results of that discriminatory test
in a way that arbitrarily excluded qualified applicants
from being hired.
Justice Alito, I think -- in response to your
question, I think our position follows entirely from the
text of the statute. We're not as concerned about the
policy consequences, though we do think that if the
Court were concerned about the policy consequences, we
think that there's a good reason why Congress
distinguished between disparate treatment and disparate
impact litigation. But it's the language of Title VII
itself, and in particular 703(h), which forbids action
upon the results.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why would Congress have
wanted to allow a question like this to be left open for
such an extended period of time? Why would it not have
wanted everybody who is potentially affected by it to
understand where things stand at a much earlier point,
at some reasonable period of time after all of the
information is in the -- in the possession of a
potential plaintiff to determine whether there has been
a disparate impact and whether that -- that person is
going to be adversely affected by it, particularly if at
a later point the effect of a remedial decree can be to
upset the employment -- the employment status of other
people who have been hired in the interim?
MR. KATYAL: I agree that there -- there
might be policy arguments against it as well as for it,
but here's the way I think we look at it -- and the
United States is the nation's largest employer, and we
face similar concerns. We give certain tests.
But I think what might have been -- what was
probably animating Congress was a fear that if the
rule of the City of Chicago were adopted, then an
employer who made it 300 days without an EEOC charge
being filed, 300 days after the announcement of the test
results, would then be able to for all time use that
discriminatory test, and it would lock in that period,
that test, for as long as 10, 20 years, and Congress
could have legitimately worried about if a test made it
300 days, an employer essentially had a get-out-of-jail-
free card to use for all time. And I would say that
that precise thing appears to have happened in this very
case.
At Joint Appendix page 54, when the City
announced its test results in January of 1996,
it said it intended to use this test for only 3
years through 1999. Afterwards, 1999 came, the City, in
the City's own briefs -- this is the court of appeals
brief at page 12 -- they admit they made a new decision
to continue using this test and the test results for
subsequent hiring rounds. That was a new decision, and
indeed that's a decision, I think, many employers would
logically make after 3 years, because then they
don't have to worry about the possibility of a disparate
impact lawsuit.
And since, as this Court said in Ricci, one
of the goals of Title VII is really to encourage
voluntary compliance on the part of employers, adopting
a rule like the City of Chicago's is really antithetical
to that, because then it will essentially lock in for
all time that old discriminatory test.
I think another reason policy -- another
policy reason Congress may have thought about is that a
rule that forced people to file within 300 days might be
damaging to the EEOC and divisive to employers, because
it would say you only have that 300-day period to file,
even before all the consequences of the -- of the -- of
the employment decision are fully understood.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, actually in -- in
this case, am I correct that -- that 9 years has gone by,
but that's because of the litigation? The suit was filed,
what, 4 months after the 300-day period ran?
MR. KATYAL: The first charge was filed, I
believe, 420 days after the January 26th announcement of
the test results. And, yes, Justice Kennedy, then there
was a period of discovery and litigation over business
necessity and the like.
And in this case, the City admitted in other
litigation that there was no basis for giving this 89
cutoff score, that a person who scored 65 was just as
likely to succeed as a firefighter as a person who
was -- who had scored 89.
Justice Stevens, you had asked about the
remedy in the case, and here's how we understand the way
remedies work in disparate impact litigation: It's
largely injunctive in nature. It's mostly about
preventing future problems.
There is a back pay claim that is available
that is statutorily capped at 2 years. Not everyone in
this 6,000-person class could get that full amount of
back pay obviously. Instead, what happened here, there
was a remedial phase at trial, and what they did was they
decided that -- the experts on both sides admitted that
132 people, approximately, would have been hired out of
that class, and that provided the appropriate amount of
back pay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you get --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was it -- was it 132 named
people or was it just 132 undifferentiated?
MR. KATYAL: I think it was 132
undifferentiated people, and then I think there --
and Mr. Payton can, I think, fully explain how the
randomization of awards was allocated.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So everybody gets
132 over 6,000 times whatever the number of people who
would have been hired?
MR. KATYAL: Right. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean the pay for
the number of people.
MR. KATYAL: Right. And, Mr. Chief Justice,
to respond to your concern before, that amount of money
is not -- you couldn't go back and look to earlier
periods of time outside of the statute of limitations,
outside of the 300-day period, rather only any
subsequent use. For example, in this case the remedy
couldn't look to the first round of hiring because no
lawsuit was brought within that first round of hiring.
It was brought at the -- it was brought after the second
round of hiring.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think you had a
footnote in your reply brief that said that if your
position prevails there would need to be an adjustment
in the relief granted by the district court --
MR. KATYAL: That is --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- wasn't it?
MR. KAYTAL: That is correct. And I think
that the Petitioners agree with that as well. And
that's I think a further limit on the way in which this
present violation theory operates as a matter of
practice. Now, this Court has said in cases such as
Ledbetter that -- that there must be a present
violation, and disparate impact litigation looks quite
different than disparate treatment litigation in
practice, because disparate impact litigation doesn't
need that missing element that has been at issue in
Ledbetter and Evans and Ricks, of discriminatory intent
at that subsequent time of action.
Here, in a disparate impact case, all that
need be shown by the plaintiff is adverse impact, and
that adverse impact happens in each of those 11 rounds
of hiring. Each of the time -- each time the City used
its test results and drew a line and said, you under 89,
we are not looking at you, that was action upon the
results, to use the language of (h)(2).
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that would be clear
even though it had not been established much earlier
that the test was invalid. So a city could go along
using a test that was an invalid test, not declared
such; 10 years later, somebody comes up and says: This
test that is being applied to me is an invalid test.
MR. KATYAL: That's exactly correct, Justice
Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- of what use is a
statute of limitations that -- that -- that operates
that way?
MR. KATYAL: Let me say two things: First
is I think (h)(2) refers to "action upon the results,"
and that thing happened in 10 years is itself action
upon the results, and so I think as a statutory matter
the language decides it.
Now, with respect to the policy reason, I
think the reason is that otherwise Congress had to fear
precisely what you're saying, that an employer 10
years from now would use that discriminatory test,
because they knew they had made it past the 300-day
initial phase of time, and then could use it for all
time. And so the statute of limitations and the
concerns about repose work hand in hand with other
concerns of Title VII, and in particular incentivizing
employers to ensure voluntary compliance with the law of
Title VII, and which this Court said in Griggs, the goal
of which is to eradicate discrimination from the United
States' labor markets.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So I suppose the
benefit is not that the City knows it's safe -- it can
rely on a test and all that -- but knows that it only has
to pay 300 days back.
MR. KATYAL: That is -- that is -- that is
the benefit of that particular back pay limitation, yes.
But in a case like this, where the City knows very well,
this test is discriminatory and, indeed, has said so in
litigation, I think Congress wanted to incentivize and
make sure there was an ability for people to sue at each
time that discriminatory test was used.
If there are no further questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Solomon.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BENNA RUTH SOLOMON
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. SOLOMON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
In January 1996, the City adopted and
announced an eligibility list for hiring candidates who
sat for the firefighters' examination. Petitioners were
told that a priority pool had been created, that based
on their scores they were not classified in that pool,
and that further consideration of candidates would be
limited to those who were in the priority pool, at least
until everyone in that pool had been called for
processing.
The City also publicly admitted that this
tiered eligibility list had adverse impact on
African-Americans, and Petitioners were aware of this.
But Petitioners did not file charges challenging the
exam and the cutoff score within 300 days after the
tiered eligibility list was adopted and announced.
Now they contend that charges can be filed
to challenge the same exam and the same cutoff score
every time the City hired from the priority hiring pool.
That position cannot be squared with the statute.
Calling other applicants from a hiring pool from which
Petitioners had already been excluded did not limit or
classify Petitioners in any way.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose there were no
list, but each time there was a hiring round the City
just took from the top -- from the top score down.
There's no list, but each time the City uses the test
results and hires the people with the top scores.
MS. SOLOMON: If I understand correctly,
that would be the same case as this, for this reason:
A list is used in a couple of different ways. A list
might be used to describe the strict rank ordering that
Your Honor is describing, and in that case, once there
is that kind of a list, it's the same as this case.
What happened in this case after that kind
of a list was made, we also drew another line, which was
the priority hiring pool.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, my -- my hypothetical
was there's no list at all.
MS. SOLOMON: If --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They just go back to the
raw scores, and each time they picked the top people.
MS. SOLOMON: So that actually -- if we're
going back to the scores but no announcement has been
made ever that we are going to use the scores in a
certain way, we agree that every time the city actually
consulted the scores, there would be a new claim. But
that's because --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what is -- what is
the list, other than an administratively convenient way
to use the scores?
MS. SOLOMON: The list was the device that
limited and classified Petitioners in this case, and
that's why it's so important. Because in order to have
a present cause of action, section (a)(2) -- under
section (a)(2), which is the disparate impact provision,
Petitioners have to point to something in the charging
period that actually limited and classified them. And
that was the effect of the list, and including the
priority hiring pool.
In a case where there is no general
practice, no announcement, no decision, nothing, but
rather every time the City makes hiring, the City
undertakes a new decision with new criteria, then it is
making a decision at that point; it is engaging in a
practice that is then at that time limiting and
classifying the Petitioners. What happened --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So even though there is a
clear case on the merits of disparate impact, unless the
suit is commenced within 30 days of the announcement,
then it's as though it were lawful. That's your
position.
MS. SOLOMON: The statute, (a)(2), requires
an unlawful --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that -- is that --
there's a free pass. You don't sue within 30 days of the
compilation of the list and the notice of the list; you sue
420 days later. The discriminatory practice gets frozen,
the status quo gets frozen forever. That's -- that is
your position, is it not?
MS. SOLOMON: That is the function of the
operation of the statute of limitations, and of course
it's not unique to Title VII.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this is not exactly a
title -- a statute of limitations. It's a time you have
to file your charge. It's a charge filing.
MS. SOLOMON: Correct. And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's also a 2-year
statute of limitations in Title VII. You can't get back
pay, I think, for more than 2 years.
MS. SOLOMON: The 300-day charging period
under Title VII functions like a statute of limitations,
and when a timely charge is not filed, no recovery can
be had for that claim. And the Court has said that over
and over in a series of disparate treatment cases.
Now, the defining feature --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You -- you don't have one
case, I think, certainly not from this Court, of
disparate impact. All the cases that you cite are
disparate treatment cases.
MS. SOLOMON: The cases are disparate
treatment cases, Justice Ginsburg, but the rule should
be the same in this case for several reasons: First,
those cases reflect that the reason there is not
a present violation when the consequences of a prior
discriminatory act are felt is because the defining
feature of the claim is absent within the charging
period.
Now, that is a perfectly good rule, no matter
whether it's discriminatory treatment or discriminatory
impact. And in this case, the defining feature, namely
disparate impact in the sense defined by the statute,
required by the statute, to limit or classify in a way
that denies people employment opportunities based on
race -- that defining feature was absent within the
charging period.
JUSTICE BREYER: How is it absent? Because
the statute says that the established -- the -- it's
established -- namely, the unlawful employment practice
-- it's established only if, and certainly if, the
respondent uses --
MS. SOLOMON: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- a particular employment
practice that has a disparate impact. That refers back
to (a)(2).
So back in that period, on a certain date, he
used that limiting practice, and, therefore, on that
particular date, he established the unlawful employment
practice by using a test that limited, et cetera.
MS. SOLOMON: I -- I have two responses,
Justice Breyer, and the first is that section (k), which
is what Your Honor is quoting from, does not describe
accrual, and it does not define the underlying violation.
It talks about when an -- excuse me, when a violation is
established. And what's so interesting is that the
reliance on those words "uses an employment practice" --
it's a few words plucked out of the middle of section (k).
You actually can't apply section (k)
literally to this case and have anything that approaches
anything that makes sense. And that's because section
(k) actually goes on after those words that get
highlighted over and over, and it's -- and it refers to
the rest of what happens in a case when a claim of
disparate impact is tried.
And so if you --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why don't we look at
subsection (h) --
MS. SOLOMON: Subsection --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that says -- and it's
an -- "it shall be an unlawful employment practice for
an employer to give and" -- conjunctive -- "and act
upon the results."
MS. SOLOMON: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So when you hire, aren't
you acting upon the results? And how are you acting
upon -- you may be acting upon it, as Petitioner argues,
when you classify, but why aren't you acting upon when
you hire?
MS. SOLOMON: Because there is no act that
limits and classifies. And what's interesting about
section (h), it's not --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I go back to
Justice Breyer's point. Isn't it, in the very act of
hiring, you are using the test results and saying --
each time you do it, you're saying: I'm going to cut
off at this limit, and I'm not going to consider someone
outside of this limited tier.
MS. SOLOMON: Well, that's what is actually
missing in this case. The city did not go back to the
test results, and it did not -- it did not create --
engage in a new decision or a new practice.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But isn't that what
"practice and policy" means? Meaning that each time, as
you continue forward, you are using a particular
practice, a particular policy?
MS. SOLOMON: Petitioners continued to be
ineligible for as long as the list was used in the way
that we said at the outset it was going to be used;
namely, that the well-qualified pool, the priority
hiring pool, would be called first.
The reason they continued to be ineligible
is because they had been limited and classified as
ineligible until the priority pool was hired first.
That was the only practice that had adverse impact
within -- as required by the statute, meaning limit and
classify.
Now, to complete my answer to
Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question,
Ms. Solomon? Would your argument be the same if the
practice in this case were -- required a high school
diploma?
Did you understand my question?
MS. SOLOMON: I'm sorry. I didn't realize
you had finished. Excuse me.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Suppose the practice were
a high school diploma. Could that -- would you make
the same argument as you're making today?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And let's add to that,
that it was adopted 10 years ago --
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- and Duke Power
announced to the world that it was going to use a high
school diploma. Indeed, it listed in the county all of
the high school graduates and said: This is the list.
MS. SOLOMON: A case like that might present
different accrual problems for this reason: There might
be several appropriate times when a person affected by a
policy like that could be said actually to have been
limited and classified in their employment
opportunities. And it could be when they enter grade
school, but that is not an appropriate time, so if it's
10 years before the act -- so that person is -- is
roughly 8 years old.
It could be when they apply to the employer.
It could be a variety of other times. But those cases,
whatever difficult accrual problems and questions they
present, they are not presented here, because this was a
closed universe. Everybody affected by the City's
eligibility list and the test and the cutoff score knew
from the moment --
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but -- but in my
example, everybody who is not a high school graduate
would have been affected right away.
MS. SOLOMON: But if they are not interested
in employment with that employer, then they are not --
it -- you -- they are certainly affected in one sense of
the word, but they're perhaps -- it would not be possible
to say their employment opportunities had been affected.
We certainly agree that there should be one
time to challenge every employment practice that has an
unlawful disparate impact, but the question in this case
is whether there is more than one to challenge exactly
the same thing? Petitioners --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You force people to
challenge the practice when they don't even know if it's
going to affect them. In the hypothetical that has been
discussed, somebody who didn't graduate from high
school, you know, wants to be something other than a
firefighter. But that doesn't work out, and then he says,
well, now I want to be a firefighter. And they say,
well, you can't, because you didn't graduate from high
school.
MS. SOLOMON: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And I think your
position is that, well, he should have filed that
suit earlier, no?
MS. SOLOMON: Our position is that the
charging period runs from the unlawful practice. And
the Court has stressed it is important to confirm --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but what is
the unlawful practice?
MS. SOLOMON: The unlawful practice here was
limiting and classifying Petitioners in a way that
deprived them of their employment opportunities. This
is what -- this -- what they were told --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can we put that in
concrete terms? It was the 89 percent cutoff, so that
anybody who got below 89 percent on the test was never
going to be considered until all the first people who
got 89 to 98.
MS. SOLOMON: Correct. And after that
decision was made, there was nothing else that Chicago
did that affected Petitioners in the terms required by
the statute. Hiring others did not adversely affect
Petitioners because they were --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So could you answer
Justice Stevens's hypothetical? What is the difference
between those people and each person who does not have a
high school diploma is not -- and is not hired? Does
that mean that the moment that they announce the high
school diploma requirement, that everybody who had
already received one, whether they wanted to work at
this job or not, had to sue, and it's only those people
who just received the high school diploma who can sue
10 years later?
MS. SOLOMON: The statute requires that the --
the complainant be limited and classified in their
employment opportunity. So --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what is the
difference between the policy announcement that each
time I hire, I'm not going to use a high school -- I'm
not going to look at people who don't have a high school
diploma, and I'm not going to look at people who don't
have a test score above 89. What's the difference
between those?
MS. SOLOMON: The difference is that once
Petitioners here were classified out of the eligible
pool for priority hiring, they were out. They were
simply out. They were not being considered anymore at
all. We didn't go back to look at the test. We didn't
consider Petitioners. We didn't reject them each time.
There could be --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, somebody getting --
someone getting a letter that you sent to people who
were qualified didn't know that. The only thing that
I see that you sent to the people who fell into the
qualified category was that it was unlikely, which I take
it means less than 50 percent, that they would be called
for further processing, but it was possible that they
would be called for further processing. You didn't tell
them anything about -- you didn't tell them that you were
going to fill all of your available positions with
people who were classified as well qualified in that
letter --
MS. SOLOMON: With respect --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- did you?
MS. SOLOMON: With respect, Justice Alito,
the letter does say that because of the large number of
people who were classified well-qualified, a step ahead
of where Petitioners were classified, it was not likely
that they were going to be hired.
JUSTICE ALITO: Right. That's right.
MS. SOLOMON: And for that reason, that is
when the injury and the impact was felt. Whatever else
later happened, whether Chicago hired a lot of people,
Chicago hired no one, whether Chicago even hired some of
the Petitioners, they had years' worth of delay. And at
this point in the litigation, it is undisputed. The City
made 149 hires from the first use of the list. That's
more than any other class --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to follow up on
Justice Alito's question, what if it were different?
What if the letter said, look, you didn't get, you're
not well qualified, but we really do expect to hire a lot
more, so, you know, keep your fingers crossed. There's
a good chance that you are going to be hired.
And you say those people should have sued
right then?
MS. SOLOMON: Correct. Because the impact,
at a minimum, is the delay in hiring. And the Court has
made quite clear that you don't -- a complainant or
plaintiff does not have to feel all of the consequences
right at the outset to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's kind of
a bad policy, isn't it? You're telling people who may
probably not be injured at all -- you are saying, well,
you still have to go into Federal court and sue.
MS. SOLOMON: With respect, Chief Justice
Roberts, they are injured. Their hiring will be
delayed, possibly substantially.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, sure. No, I
understand that, but, you know, let's say we
think we are going to hire -- if the budget plan goes
through, we think we're going to hire everybody else
by -- in 4 months. And you're saying, well, those
people have to sue anyway because they are injured by
the 4-month delay.
MS. SOLOMON: They are injured by a
4-month delay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MS. SOLOMON: But there may be circumstances
in which information is not conveyed in a way that would
put a reasonable person on notice that he or she had a
claim right at the outset, and that relates also to the
high school diploma hypothetical. If the --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why did the City
say that it was planning to give a new test in 3
years and then wait more than a decade before giving a
new test? If I received one of these qualified letters,
and I also -- and I knew in addition that the City was
going to give a test in 3 years, that might well
affect my incentive about bringing a lawsuit to
challenge this.
MS. SOLOMON: But it wouldn't change the
fact that there had been, at least a -- if you wait for
the next list, you still have been delayed at least 3
years in your ability to be hired as a firefighter. And
as far as the reason why we didn't follow through on the
aspirational goal of giving another test within 3 years,
the tests are very difficult and expensive to deliver,
I think -- to develop, excuse me. The record in
this case actually makes that clear.
Despite rather significant steps, including
the use of a prominent African-American industrial
psychologist to develop this test, it had severe adverse
impact. The test actually compares rather favorably to
the test that was given in the City of New Haven, but
the district court invalidated it, and, you know, we did
undertake to develop a new test. But --
JUSTICE ALITO: But you don't challenge
that.
MS. SOLOMON: -- surely the Court --
JUSTICE ALITO: You don't challenge that.
You now acknowledge that the Plaintiffs were treated
unlawfully.
MS. SOLOMON: We have not pressed that
claim. That is correct, Justice Alito, but --
JUSTICE ALITO: And were you prejudiced by
the delay in the filing of the EEOC charge?
MS. SOLOMON: There was some testimony -- and
we quote it in our brief -- about things that the person
responsible for setting the cutoff score could not
remember. But a statute of limitations actually doesn't
require prejudice, so we didn't undertake to try to
prove that. The -- repose arises naturally at the end
of the charging period. It's not something that -- that
the defendant has to earn either by capitulating to the
plaintiffs' demands or otherwise proving prejudice.
And in a case like this, it -- it wasn't
possible simply to take the list down. The Court's
opinion in Ricci makes that quite clear. Our expert
told us all the way through the trial -- he testified
at the trial --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You didn't have to take
the list down. You simply could have said: Anyone who
got a passing score, anyone who is qualified -- we're not
going to make the distinction between qualified and
unqualified.
MS. SOLOMON: I -- I believe --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You didn't have to throw
out the list.
MS. SOLOMON: I believe --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You didn't have to throw
out the test.
MS. SOLOMON: I believe the Court's opinion
in Ricci addresses that as well. That that's a -- a
misuse of the test scores. The expert was resolute even
through the trial --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought the expert
said -- the test devisor said he didn't make up that
89 percent cutoff. That was Chicago that made that --
that decision.
MS. SOLOMON: He -- his reason for
suggesting the 65 cutoff score was because of the
adverse impact. That was an attempt to deal with
adverse impact, but his position was the test was valid
to measure the cognitive aspects that it was attempting
to measure, and that those related to the training
firefighters had to undergo in the academy.
And he was clear as well, that a higher
score created an inference that the person was more
qualified to -- to perform in the way --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- you've lost --
you've lost on that.
MS. SOLOMON: We have. But the reason that
I'm mentioning it is because it's not simply a matter
of -- of why don't you take the list down. At the time
that the expert is telling us the test is valid and it
can -- it gives rise to an inference that people closer
to the top are better -- possess more of the cognitive
abilities that the test was testing for, we would have
at a minimum been courting disparate treatment liability
to adjust the scores, to randomize them further, or to
take the list down. But to return --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, but -- but going to
65, opening up the classification, is not adjusting the
scores; it's not taking the list down; it's just saying
anyone who passes the test can proceed to the next step.
MS. SOLOMON: It seriously diminished the
opportunities of the people who were at 89 and above.
There were about 1,700 applicants at 89 or above, and
there were 22,000 65 or above. So calling in random
order --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You've got to -- I
mean, you've just got to take your -- get as good
legal advice as you can and determine is it -- are we
going to be in more trouble if we follow the test or
more trouble if we -- if we take it down?
People have to do that all the time. They
look -- well, if I do this, I'm going to be in trouble;
if I do this, I'm going to -- but I have got to decide
what I should do.
MS. SOLOMON: Correct, but read in
conjunction with the 300-day charging period. And I
would like to follow up just briefly on answers to
Justice Breyer and Justice Sotomayor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm sorry.
Read in conjunction with the 300 -- you have got to
finish that sentence at least, before --
MS. SOLOMON: I -- I'm sorry. That
was the -- so, yes, at the point where the employer is
assessing the options, the City was not sued within --
excuse me, charges were not filed within 300 days after
the tiered eligibility list was adopted and announced.
Petitioners were aware that it had adverse impact. No
charges were filed then; no charges were filed after the
first use of the list.
So at some point when the employer is
weighing the options, the employer can also factor in
the time to challenge this has passed.
What Petitioners seek here is new
opportunities -- 11 -- 10 opportunities to challenge
exactly the same thing that they -- that they would have
challenged if they had filed a charge promptly. They
continue to emphasize that the eligibility pool, when
compared with the pool of applicants, had a disparate
impact. But that's not a new violation. That's not a
new classification, and it doesn't limit anybody's
opportunities in any way beyond what they were already
limited. That's the old violation. That's the one they
didn't charge.
Now, Petitioners do claim that the shortfall
evidence showed that they -- showed and the use of the
list had disparate impact each time. But it actually
didn't, either. That also was the old violation. That
shortfall was compiled by comparing the number of
African-Americans who were hired using the 89 cutoff
score and the number who would have been called for
further processing if --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How do you -- the problem I
have with all of this -- it makes entire sense, except
when you read subpart (k), it says "an unlawful
employment practice based on disparate impact is
established" if "a complaining party demonstrates that a
respondent uses a particular employment practice that
causes a disparate impact on the basis of race."
MS. SOLOMON: Correct. But you have --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is what happened
here.
MS. SOLOMON: But the fact --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They used --
MS. SOLOMON: Excuse me, Justice Scalia.
The statute goes on, and it describes the later things
that happened at trial. So in our view, read
literally --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where -- where does it go
on? To say what?
MS. SOLOMON: It goes on to say that the
respondent fails to demonstrate that the challenged
process is job-related, or subpart (ii), there is
an alternative practice with less disparate impact. So
-- so (k), if (k) is going to be consulted at all, and
we do not think that it should be, because section
706(e), which has always been thought of as the charging
period, talks about an alleged unlawful practice, and
that's what the person knows at the outset.
Section (k) talks about the burden of proof
and how you go about proving these at trial, and that's
why it uses the word "established." But that's also why
it describes the entirety of what happens at trial.
Read literally, you can pluck a few words out of the --
out of one of these provisions and say, aha, they used
an employment practice. You have to read the whole
thing together if you're going to read it at all, and
when you read the whole thing together, you come up with
the absurd result that the charging period doesn't run
until the district court brings the gavel down and
determines that an unlawful practice has been
established.
In this case, that would have meant that the
people 65 and below could file charges within 300 days
after the district court's decision, which is something
like 11 years after the practice in this case. And
that's because that was the moment at which it was
established. And that's why we think that (k) does not
bear on this. And (h) --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is my impression -- is
there anything else in that (k)? You see, it lists
about 10 things, let's say 10 -- imagine. One of
those things is that it was used. Now, all the other
things there will not have been -- are things that --
that -- to do with the test, basically. So you have
like six or seven that have to do with the test and the
criteria, and then you have one that it was used.
MS. SOLOMON: Right, and that's why --
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and so I thought,
looking at the list, it's quite right that it's used for
a different purpose but --
MS. SOLOMON: It's not --
JUSTICE BREYER: But, I mean, this (k) has
to do with a different thing, but -- but -- and the
critical element of it was that the practice be used.
MS. SOLOMON: You -- but again, even if (k)
is consulted -- and for the reasons that I just outlined
we don't think that it should be. It doesn't bear on
accrual. But even if (k) is consulted, it doesn't --
it doesn't say that any use of an employment practice is
-- is a new unlawful act. It has to be an employment
practice that actually has disparate impact.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you'd have to then
say that all the things that are there, the other nine
and so forth -- all those nine things --
MS. SOLOMON: This is actually --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well --
MS. SOLOMON: Excuse me, Justice Breyer.
This is actually a slightly different point. At the
outset, I indicated why section (k) does not bear on
accrual at all; it describes what happens at trial, and
for that reason --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MS. SOLOMON: -- you really can't pluck a few
words out of the middle.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, well, that's true --
it does --
MS. SOLOMON: But even if one is going to
consult it to determine accrual, what it says is that
the use of an employment practice with adverse impact.
And in this case there was only one, and that one was
when Petitioners were limited and classified based on
the test scores. Nothing that happened after that,
including hiring others, was an unlawful practice with
disparate impact in a way that affected the Petitioners.
They had already been rejected.
When an employer says, I will not consider
you for the position, or perhaps it says, I will not
consider you for the position until I have considered a
lot of other people first, that is a rejection. Nothing
that happens after that, whether the person hires
somebody else, whether the person doesn't hire somebody
else, whether they change their mind and later hire the
person whom they had previously rejected -- Ricks, after
all had a grievance pending. It was certainly possible
that that would change the outcome in the case, but the
Court, nonetheless, says you cannot wait for the
consequences to be felt.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was a disparate
treatment case.
MS. SOLOMON: Correct, but there is no --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the -- the argument
here is disparate impact is different because there's
no need to show intent of disparate impact.
MS. SOLOMON: Correct. But the only
practice in this case that had a disparate impact in the
sense used by the statute was when the tiered
eligibility list was made. After that, of course there
was a consequence of that. Consequences can be felt in
employment for a long time. The people in the
well-qualified pool were hired before Petitioners, they
were paid before Petitioners, they are going to get
their pensions before Petitioners. Those things
continue to have consequences.
But the Court has made clear that the
consequences cannot be challenged by themselves unless
there actually is a present violation.
Now, there is not even an argument in the
other side's briefs, neither of them, that explains why
there was an adverse impact based on race under (a)(2)
at any point when the City used the list. If one reads
the briefs very carefully, one will see that those times
when a claim is made in the briefs that we used an
unlawful practice, it always goes back to the test and
the list.
Simply keeping the list up after we announce
it is not a new violation. It is quite clear in the
cases that the employer does not have to change a
decision in order to obtain repose.
And, of course, the disparate treatment and
disparate impact are simply different methods of proving
a claim. They are not different claims by themselves.
In this case, in addition to the statutory language,
there are a number of policy reasons that while we don't
rely on them heavily, we do rely on the statute. They
should nonetheless be considered in deciding this.
There was no sense in which a claim filed to challenge
the list was premature. It was the one act that
actually limited and classified Petitioners.
Everything else that happened after that
either didn't affect the Petitioners at all, as in
hiring people who had made the cut, or it affected them
only in the colloquial sense, that the consequences of
the prior act continued.
Chicago did not have to revisit this in
order to obtain repose. The statute makes that quite
clear.
Mr. Payton emphasizes only the policy of
righting employment wrongs, but there are other policies
in the statute. In addition to repose, the statute
makes clear that claims should be brought to the EEOC at
the earliest opportunity.
Excuse me. We ask that the judgment be
affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Payton, you have 5 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN A. PAYTON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. PAYTON: Thank you.
This is a case about jobs. And I want to
read from the letter that Justice Alito was referring
to. This is the letter that the qualifieds received.
It's in our Joint Appendix at JA-35, and it's the last
sentence of the first paragraph.
This is the letter that they all got. This
is the letter that Arthur Lewis, the named person in the
case, got. However, it says: You are qualified; you
are qualified; there are well-qualifieds. And it's
unlikely -- that language is there.
And then it says: "However, because it
is not possible at this time to predict how many
applicants will be hired in the next few years,
your name will be kept on the eligible list
maintained by the department of personnel for as
long as that list is used."
I did focus on the word "used." And it's
not only in section (k). It's also in section (h),
where it says, "used to discriminate." Because it's an
ordinary word that the City used itself in advising
the Petitioners in this case.
In the answer to the complaint in this case,
which is at Joint Appendix 19, the -- I'm sorry, Joint
Appendix 16, the answer to -- actually, the first
paragraph in the complaint in this case, the City says
as follows -- this is the second sentence in the answer
to the complaint: "Defendant" -- the City -- "admits
that it has used and continues to use results of the 1995
firefighter entrance examination as part of its
firefighter hiring process." Using an unlawful cutoff
score -- and the eligibility list is nothing other than
the functional equivalent of the cutoff score -- using
that to make decisions on those 11 times is a violation
of Title VII.
And the argument that there is no additional
impact -- it is the dramatic difference between being told
what someone intends to do and then they do it. You are
told that maybe your chances are going to be minimal in
the future, or maybe 50/50, but then when it actually
starts happening and you see other people start getting
jobs, that's an impact. That's a consequence.
When I said the animating principle in
Title VII and disparate impact is result and
consequences, it's results and consequences. Those
are additional impacts that go with the additional
uses that clearly establish a violation of Title VII's
disparate impact prohibition in this case.
I don't think that the statutory language is
actually -- I think the best reading, as I said, of the
statutory language is as I said. I think the policies
behind how that works -- it is 300 days after every use.
There is a statute, but, in fact, the control over that
is entirely within the City. If they stopped using this
unlawful cutoff score after 300 days, they are
completely done with any potential liability.
And the point is you want that to be
challenged, because we don't want unlawful employment
practices to continue to go forever and ever and ever
and ever out there. And we can see, in this very case,
that if you don't allow the challenge, the practice goes
on and is inconsistent with the -- I'd say the
national policy to rid our workplace of discrimination.
Are there any other questions otherwise?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:04 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
39:1 administrativ... allow 17:7 53:10 32:23 31:2 35:24
53:17 admits 52:2 15:24 appropriate based 24:13
20:11 24:19 21:4 approximately 47:23 49:11
adopting 19:1 35:4 49:17 arbitrary 10:3 44:15
46:25 adverse 3:14 6:25 18:13 argument 1:12 47:11
7:20 15:2 22:7 24:11,24 32:11 2:3,11 3:4,7 becoming 13:25
31:17 39:9 announcement 31:23 32:6 behalf 1:15,18
32:21 47:21 49:11 6:5,13,16 18:3 50:23 52:10 2:13 3:8 15:24
50:4,10 adversely 17:15 19:17 26:2,20 arguments 24:7 50:24
advice 42:15 announces 5:4 arises 40:4 9:14,15 11:21
8:13 affect 33:20 8:14 11:7 11:16 40:18,21,24
34:23 38:21 31:20 34:25 Arthur 1:3 51:7 benefit 23:18,22
14:11,19 50:7 51:22,24 52:1 asked 20:1 benefiting 9:8
affirmative 3:18 answers 42:24 asks 13:15 BENNA 1:21
17:4 affirmed 50:20 antithetical 19:2 aspects 41:11 2:9 24:6
African-Amer... anybody 34:17 aspirational best 3:19 8:2
26:13 39:8 anybody's 43:22 39:3 52:24
ago 11:3 32:8 appeals 18:16 attempting black 3:15 12:17
50:16 33:13 appears 18:10 13:3 20:6 Breyer 28:25
52:10,20 ahead 36:18 51:4,23,24 award 14:1,2 42:25 46:6,15
AL 1:3 applicant 13:16 awards 20:21 46:19 47:4,8,9
16:21 17:6 applicants 3:12 43:9 Breyer's 30:21
51:2 25:4 42:10 B briefly 42:24
21:5
category 12:18 34:7 40:5 39:21 44:1 comes 22:17
50:17 12:12,15,24 7:7 8:4,25 9:2 class 12:15 compares 39:10
36:7,9 17:23 26:4 Chicago's 9:22 4:7 44:13
29:9 19:2 classified 24:14 complaint 51:22
29:3 33:10,13 4:19 14:9,15 32:18 35:11,21 complete 7:23
cetera 29:12 15:21 16:1 47:23 50:5 completely 8:15
25:1 33:14,16 21:3 23:17 classify 6:21 compliance 19:1
11:17 challenged 50:21 53:14 clause 7:2,3 concerned 16:23
14:22 10:18 12:1,2 circumstances clear 6:13 9:12 16:25
16:4 43:18 45:3 11:21 38:10 22:13 27:2 concerns 17:23
18:11 49:7 53:7 cite 28:7 37:15 39:6 23:11,12
20:2 challenging city 1:6 3:5 4:9 40:10 41:14 conclusion
22:6 24:22 4:11,16,19 8:4 49:6,18 50:13 16:11
25:13,16 chance 13:24 12:20 16:7 50:17 concrete 34:16
26:11 37:10 18:1,12,15 clearly 4:25 5:2 confirm 34:8
27:2 chances 52:13 19:2,21 22:9 5:19,22 7:8,11 conflict 9:10
change 5:7 22:15 23:18,23 7:13 9:13 Congress 17:1,6
30:1 13:14 38:23 24:10,19 25:2 12:25 14:6 17:25 18:6
32:14 48:9,12 49:19 25:8,10 26:4 52:21 19:6 23:5,25
39:6 charge 8:12 26:21,21 31:2 close 4:1,3,5 Congress's 8:11
45:24 15:12 18:2 37:2 38:15,19 closed 11:13 conjunction
47:22 19:16 27:19,19 39:11 43:6 33:2 42:23 43:2
28:1 39:23 49:12 51:20,25 closer 41:23 conjunctive 30:9
51:1,8 43:18,25 52:2 53:3 cognitive 41:11 consequence
charges 24:22 City's 10:20 41:24 48:25 52:16
53:9,15 24:25 43:7,10 18:16 33:2 colloquial 50:9 consequences
43:10 45:25 claim 8:8 20:6 combined 10:6 4:24,25 5:7
27:24 28:15,24 30:1 38:13 45:19 7:22 16:24,25
49:19
28:13 county 32:12 27:3,9,11 43:7 described 4:21 disparate 3:22
48:14,25 couple 25:14 45:25 53:1,4 11:21 3:25 4:23 7:18
50:9 course 27:15 deal 41:9 describes 44:22 7:21,23 8:7,19
48:24 49:21 decade 38:17 45:14 47:12 9:20 13:10
48:3,5 3:10 9:12,25 decided 14:4 designed 9:25 17:14 18:22
13:9 14:7 18:16,24 21:16 decides 23:3 Despite 39:7 22:1,2,6 26:14
24:15 21:23 23:14 deciding 50:2 determine 3:12 27:2 28:3,7,8,9
35:23 34:8 37:14,21 9:11,22 18:17 47:20 30:2 33:15
50:2 39:12,16 45:21 18:19,20 19:11 determines 42:1 43:20
court's 40:9,24 41:6 46:1 39:13 48:15,19,20,22
46:23,25 created 13:24 4:24 7:13 9:2,5 difference 35:1 dispute 3:13
criteria 26:22 52:8 52:11 40:16
43:19 crossed 37:9 defendant 40:6 25:14 32:15 district 9:25
53:8 curiae 1:19 2:8 52:2 37:6 46:17,20 21:16 39:12
31:9,14 cut 30:23 50:8 defined 28:20 49:22,23 divisive 19:8
cutback 10:23 defining 28:4,14 difficult 32:25 doing 5:20 9:15
34:16 40:1 demands 40:7 discriminate 4:5 Duke 32:10
19:13 52:5,7 53:4 45:3 discrimination
22:19 demonstrates 10:14 14:16 E
30:11 D 44:13 23:15 53:12 E 2:2 3:2,2
37:13 D 3:2 denies 28:22 discriminatory earlier 17:10
42:22 damage 14:1 department 4:7,9,10 9:3 21:5 22:14
48:17,21 damages 13:15 1:18 12:21 12:5 16:7,18 34:5
15:21 days 11:8,10,11 Deputy 1:17,21 27:11 28:14,18 easily 12:25
50:21 12:4 15:8 18:2 describe 25:15 28:18 economy 12:8
18:3,8 19:7,17 29:15 discussed 33:21 EEOC 8:12
24:23 15:12 18:2
39:23 entirely 16:22 50:19 finds 9:25 24:3,15 36:8,9
53:3 exhaust 14:23 fingers 37:9 42:2 44:8
26:17 entrance 52:4 expensive 39:4 finished 32:3 5:8,20 6:14
eradicated 41:22 firefighter 12:10
eradication explain 8:3 19:24 33:23,24 G 3:2
33:3 ESQ 1:15,17,21 exposure 10:21 24:12 41:13 general 1:17
48:24 2:4,6,9,12 extended 17:8 first 5:18 8:8,9 12:10 26:19
essentially 18:8 10:24 11:7 getting 36:2,3
establish 52:21 face 17:23 15:8,14 19:16 get-out-of-jail
29:1,2,3,11,18 7:15 10:8 31:13,16 34:18 10:20 11:22
23:6 46:4 44:19 53:2 48:6 51:5,24 25:21,24 26:7
32:23 et 1:3 29:12 factor 43:13 fits 12:25 27:1,8,17,21
43:5,12 Evans 22:4 fails 45:3 focus 51:17 28:5,10 32:7
48:3 event 7:3 14:2 far 39:2 follow 7:25 37:5 32:10 34:15
everybody 12:15 favorably 39:10 39:2 42:16,24 40:13,19,22
23:13 33:2,6 35:5 feature 28:4,15 52:1 48:15,18
7:19 evidence 44:2 February 1:9 forbids 16:17 12:15 13:6
12:13 evident 8:11 Federal 37:21 17:4 17:23 30:9
17:17,17 exactly 11:21 feel 37:16 force 33:18 38:16,20
28:22 22:19 27:17 fell 36:5 forced 19:7 given 39:11
33:16 43:17 felt 28:14 36:23 forever 27:12 gives 41:23
32:18 exam 24:23 25:1 48:14,25 53:8 giving 19:22
examination figure 13:22 forgone 15:16 38:17 39:3
35:12 24:12 52:4 file 8:7 19:7,9 forth 47:6 go 12:4 15:8
45:17 example 9:23 24:22 27:19 forward 31:7 21:5 22:15
49:1 21:8 33:6 45:25 free 18:9 27:9 25:24 30:20
53:7 exclude 7:9 16:8 filed 8:12 15:12 frozen 27:11,12 31:2 35:24
47:12 48:7 29:15 including 26:17 January 18:13
17:15 Haven's 9:19 25:21 33:20 inconsistent JA-35 51:4
30:23 hear 3:4 35:1 38:14 12:6 53:11 job 10:22 11:3
31:11 heavily 50:1 independent 5:6 13:3 14:10
33:20 high 31:24 32:5 I 5:9 35:7
35:15,16 32:11,13 33:6 ii 45:4 indicated 47:11 jobs 7:10 12:21
36:11,20 33:21,25 35:3 Illinois 1:6,22 industrial 39:8 13:6 14:3 51:1
38:2,3 35:4,8,15,16 imagine 46:8 ineligible 31:10 52:16
40:16 38:14 impact 3:14,22 31:14,16 job-related 3:15
higher 11:3 3:25 4:23 5:7 inference 41:15 10:2 45:4
47:19 41:14 5:10,11,14 41:23 JOHN 1:15 2:4
52:13 highlighted 6:11,12 7:18 information 2:12 3:7 50:23
37:10 hire 3:13 30:12 9:20 13:10 initial 23:9 51:23,23
30:16 35:15 15:2 16:14 injunctive 20:4 JR 1:3
hired 10:24 11:1 22:2,6,7,8 38:7 Justice 1:18 3:4
12:11,17 36:20,24,25,25 41:9,10 43:9 52:12 14:9,15,21
47:3,21 48:1 intention 8:20 19:12,18 20:1
46:5 hiring 3:17 4:22 52:16,18,22 interesting 22:13,19,21
5:1 6:25 8:10 impacts 52:20 29:18 30:18 23:17 24:4,8
21:9,10,12 7:15 22:18 28:25 29:6,14
20:9 25:2,4,8,20 34:8 39:12 30:21 31:5,21
25:18 26:18,21 30:22 impression 46:6 issue 11:24 22:3 31:22 32:4,7,9
36:24 31:13 34:23 incentive 38:21 issues 4:10 32:10 33:5,18
47:24 35:22 37:14,23 incentivize it's 6:13 29:20 34:3,9,15,25
47:25 50:8 23:25 29:25 35:1,13 36:2
hirings 12:15 23:12 I'm 41:20 37:5,6,18,22
45:14 14:2 J
language 6:19 47:23 50:5 looks 4:23 21:25 38:4
8:1 17:3 22:12 limiting 16:15 lost 41:17,18 mutually 16:9
42:4 23:3 49:24 26:24 29:10 lot 36:24 37:8
51:10 52:23,25 34:12 48:6 N
44:9,17 large 36:17 limits 30:18 N 2:2,2 3:2
largely 20:4 line 16:4 22:10 M name 51:14
largest 17:22 25:19 maintained named 20:16
law 7:18 9:13 list 11:4 24:11 51:15 51:7
50:21 10:16 23:13 24:20,24 25:8 making 8:9 9:5 national 53:12
53:14 lawful 27:4 25:10,14,14,17 10:7 26:23 nation's 17:22
38:21 26:10,17 27:10 markets 23:16 nature 20:4
29:14,20 Ledbetter 21:24 37:3 38:25 28:17 41:20 necessity 19:20
44:11 22:4 40:9,14,20 53:17 need 21:15 22:3
46:4 left 17:7 41:21 42:3,6 mean 5:10,15 22:7 48:20
legal 42:15 43:8,11 44:3 21:1 35:4 neither 49:10
51:18 legitimately 46:16 48:24 42:14 46:19 neutral 7:20
16:1 letter 36:3,13,17 50:4 51:14,16 means 31:6 36:7 new 1:15,15
19:16 37:7 51:2,3,6,7 52:6 meant 45:24 8:22 9:19
21:3 letters 38:18 listed 32:12 measure 41:11 14:11,19 15:5
22:19,24 let's 10:21 32:7 lists 46:7 41:12 18:17,19 26:5
38:1 46:8 literally 29:22 members 14:3 26:22,22 31:4
20:16 limit 6:20 7:2 22:1,2 23:25 methods 49:22 nine 47:5,6
31:18 43:22 lock 18:5 19:3 mind 48:9 number 8:5
7:11 15:1 long 10:20 11:3 minimum 37:14 36:17 44:5,7
15:1 limitations 11:8 49:1 51:16 miniscule 13:24
36:4 14:1 O
21:6 longer 11:9
38:1 22:22 23:10 look 7:22 8:25 minutes 50:22 O 2:2 3:2
27:15,18,22,25 17:21 21:5,9 missing 22:3 obtain 49:20
45:10 limited 6:25 35:24 37:7 misuse 41:1 obviously 13:6
26:11,16 42:19 moment 33:4 20:9
30:25 looked 8:19 9:3
16:12 page 2:3 18:12 percent 34:16 plan 38:2 potential 17:13
44:4 part 19:1 52:4 period 17:8,11 pluck 45:15 7:19 13:14
23:12,22 29:6 19:19 21:7 plucked 29:20 22:2 26:20,24
17:15 42:23 45:9,20 37:2 43:5,12 31:17,24 32:4
passed 43:14 person 11:2 points 5:18 44:14 45:5,9
16:15 passing 40:15 19:23,24 32:16 52:25 46:21 47:1,3
32:19 pay 20:6,9,14 32:21 35:2 policy 3:20 8:2 47:21,25 48:22
34:13 21:1 23:20,22 38:12 39:25 8:16 10:11 49:15 53:10
43:16,16 27:23 41:15 45:10 11:24 12:7 practices 53:8
Payton 1:15 2:4 48:7,8,10 51:7 16:24,25 17:20 precise 18:10
50:18 4:14 5:14,17 Petitioner 30:14 31:6,8 32:17 predict 51:12
24:6 14:20,22 15:6 24:22 25:5,6 24:14,16,17 present 9:10
15:17 50:14,22,23,25 31:9 33:17 26:18 31:12,13 26:13 28:13
42:12 pending 48:11 34:12,22,24 31:16 35:22 32:14 33:1
50:12 pensions 49:4 35:21,25 36:19 43:19,20 49:2 49:8
20:19,23 21:2 50:5,7,24 21:15 25:3 prevails 21:15
38:13 35:16,17 36:3 picked 25:25 possess 41:24 prior 28:13
47:11 36:5,12,18,24 picking 10:6 possession 17:12 50:10
41:23 42:9,18 plaintiff 17:13 possible 33:11 24:16 25:2,20
50:8 plaintiffs 16:8 48:11 51:12 35:22
qualifieds 51:3 9:14 17:1 19:5 40:4 49:20 29:5 32:9 33:7
12:10 16:4,22 31:14 32:15 require 8:11 46:14,16
32:1 33:15 41:7,19 47:13 required 28:21 ripples 6:12
24:3 32:25 reasons 28:11 35:5 Roberts 3:4 4:8
36:8,9 quite 8:5,9 21:25REBUTTAL 35:10 15:4,7,21
37:15 40:10 2:11 50:23 reserve 15:19 20:15,22 21:1
52:22 50:12 38:18 51:3 respect 23:4 33:18 34:3,9
quoted 5:11 7:6 referring 51:2 2:10 3:24 24:7 53:14
49:22 44:15 49:11 rejected 48:2,10 responsible 40:1 rounds 3:17
26:14 ran 19:15 related 41:12 result 45:20 14:25 16:6,13
11:20 14:4 42:11 relevant 14:22 results 4:3,11,25 rule 18:1 19:2,7
45:16 randomization reliance 29:19 6:10 7:12,12 28:10,17
randomize 42:2 relief 21:16 17:5 18:4,13 runs 34:7
raw 25:25 remedial 11:23 23:2 25:11
remedies 20:3 return 42:3 safe 23:18
10:3,4,4 52:24 13:14,16,20 Ricci 9:13,18 23:6 30:22,23
12:11,18 reads 49:12 15:13,15 20:2 18:24 40:10,25 37:20 38:4
realize 32:2 21:8 Ricks 22:4 48:10 42:6
16:19 really 18:25 remember 40:2 rid 53:12 says 4:11 22:17
37:8 19:2 37:8 reply 21:14 right 5:16 11:12 29:1 30:7
40:15,16 47:15 33:23 44:11
48:3,4 50:3,9 44:16,19,21 statutorily 20:7 Supreme 1:1,12
51:8,11 sent 36:3,5 45:2 46:14,18 statutory 23:2 sure 5:21 15:5
sentence 43:3 46:22 47:7,9 49:24 52:23,25 24:1 37:25
6:2 22:13 separate 3:11,18 48:21 steps 39:7 39:16
44:9 series 28:3 somebody 13:17 Stevens 12:9
seriously 42:8 14:12,16,18 13:2,13 20:1 T
seven 46:12 36:2 48:8,8 33:5 take 4:10 12:3
34:1 seventh 15:15 someone's 7:1 Stevens's 35:1 15:14,16 36:6
severe 39:9 sorry 32:2 43:1 stop 9:16 13:21 40:9,13 41:21
shortfall 44:1,5 43:4 51:23 stopped 9:2,6 42:3,14,17
9:1,3,24 showed 44:2,2 sorting 6:9 stressed 34:8 takes 4:9
13:21,23 shown 22:7 Sotomayor 6:19 strict 25:15 talks 29:17 45:9
19:23 shutting 11:19 6:23 30:4,7,12 submitted 53:15 45:11
25:1,9 sides 20:11 30:20 31:5 53:17 tell 36:9,10
35:18 side's 49:10 34:25 35:13 subpart 44:11 telling 37:19
41:8 significant 39:7 42:25 45:4 41:22
44:7 similar 7:16 sought 13:8,8 subsection 30:5 tenth 10:21
53:4 17:23 soundest 3:20 30:6 terms 34:16,22
26:2 49:17,22 25:3 22:5 9:20 10:1 16:8
41:1 single 12:22,23 stand 17:10 subsequently 16:16,17,18
47:24 13:16,19,20 standard 9:13 7:2 18:3,5,6,7,13
52:1 slightly 47:10 start 52:15 37:24 19:4,18 22:10
6:6 26:13 Solomon 1:21 states 1:1,12,19 sue 4:13 15:11 22:18 23:7,19
29:14,20 2:9 24:5,6,8 2:7 4:2 15:24 24:1 27:9,10 23:24 24:2
30:19 25:12,23 26:1 17:22 23:16 35:7,8 37:21 25:10 29:12
47:11 26:10 27:6,14 status 17:17 38:5 30:22 31:3
27:20,24 28:9 27:12 sued 15:15 33:3 34:17
52:15 31:9,23 32:2 11:7,10 16:23 suggesting 41:8 39:9,10,11,13
32:14 33:8 21:6 22:22 suit 9:7 10:25 40:23 41:1,4
38:23 39:16,20 34:23 35:10 suppose 4:19 testified 40:11
33:10 40:24 41:7,19 48:23 50:1,12 32:4 testing 41:25
48:23 42:8,22 43:4 50:16,16 53:2 supposed 11:2 tests 17:23 39:4
24:4,8 8:20 10:10,18 trouble 42:16,17 40:17 16:12 21:22,25
53:14 12:20 13:17 42:19 upset 17:17 28:13 29:16,17
9:16 10:9 15:20 17:8,11 try 40:3 6:16 7:11,13 49:8,18 52:8
32:9 18:4,9 19:4 trying 12:7 8:4,18,23 52:21
7:1,8 8:17 25:2,8,10,25 11:5 22:24 12:1 15:2 18:4 voluntary 19:1
26:4,21,24 29:13 18:9,14 21:8 23:13
25:10,22 27:18 30:23 22:12,21 23:7 vulnerable 9:7
37:9 31:6 32:20 U 23:9 26:3,9
33:14 35:15,25 undergo 41:13 32:11 35:15 W
36:4 49:1 51:12 understand 9:21 47:1,21 52:3 want 10:14
45:18,19 timely 28:1 12:14 17:10 53:1 15:19 33:24
times 5:2 6:15 20:2 25:12 uses 3:25 25:10 51:1 53:6,7
39:25 49:13 52:8 understood 45:13 52:21 23:25 35:6
46:8,9 title 3:18,21 4:4 19:11 wants 33:22
47:5 4:23 8:1,11 undertake 39:13 V Washington 1:8
49:4 10:12,25 11:10 40:3 v 1:5 3:5 1:18
10:16 16:5,9,12,17 26:22 valid 41:10,22 wasn't 13:7
16:3,3,9 17:3 18:25 undifferentiat... variety 32:24 21:18
23:12,14 27:16 20:17,19 versa 10:5 way 7:18 13:12
27:18,22,25 undisputed 37:2 vice 10:5 14:5 16:17,19
19:5 52:9,18,21 unique 27:16 view 44:23 17:21 20:2
today 32:6 United 1:1,12,19 VII 3:18,21 4:4 21:21 22:23
told 10:1 24:13 2:7 15:24 8:1,11 10:12 25:6 26:4,8
23:2,5 34:14 40:11 17:22 23:15 10:25 11:10 28:21 31:10
27:23 52:11,13 universe 33:2 12:7 14:8 16:5 34:12 38:11
34:3 38:2 top 25:9,9,11,25 unlawful 3:12 16:9,12,17 40:11 41:16
39:5 45:7 41:24 3:22 4:22 5:20 17:3 18:25 43:23 48:1
52:23 training 41:12 6:7 9:1,11,15 23:12,14 27:16 ways 7:16,16
treated 39:18 9:16,20 10:17 27:22,25 52:9 25:14
41:3 45:8 17:2 22:1 28:3 13:21,23 14:25 VII's 4:23 13:9 well-qualified
28:8,10,18 27:7 29:2,11 52:21 12:11 14:11,13
49:21 34:7,10,11 violation 3:18 49:2
48:23 47:12 unlawfully 7:4,14,23 8:17 we're 4:12 16:23
8:20,22,23 26:1 38:3
08-974 1:4 3:5 300 11:8,10,11 98 34:19
51:17,20 10 18:6 22:17 43:2,7 45:25
29:19,20 35:9 43:16 300-day 19:9,15
45:15 46:8,8 21:7 23:8
11 3:11 4:21 5:1 27:24 42:23
14:6 9:1 12:13 14:7 4
20:3 14:20,24 16:6 4 19:15 38:4
33:23 16:13 22:8 4-month 38:6,8
43:16 46:2 420 19:17 27:11
1:13 3:3 5
53:12 12 18:17 5 50:22
53:1 132 14:4 20:12 50/50 52:14
51:24 6 8:8
51:23 6,000 14:3 20:23
52:3 6,000-person
18:13 20:8
65 19:23 41:8
27:23 29:8 703(a)(2) 4:6 6:6
20:7 49:11 703(h) 4:2 17:4
23:1,7 2-year 27:21 703(k) 3:21
32:8,21 20 18:6 706(e) 45:8
35:9 2010 1:9 8
38:17,20 22 1:9
32:22
46:2 22,000 42:11
19:22,25
24 2:10
34:16,17
35:18
41:5 42:9,10
37:7,19
2:5 18:14,21 44:6
45:18
19:13
30 27:3,9
