IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
HOLLY WOOD, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-9156
RICHARD F. ALLEN, :
COMMISSIONER, ALABAMA :
DEPARTMENT OF :
CORRECTIONS, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, November 4, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
KERRY A. SCANLON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
COREY L. MAZE, ESQ., Solicitor General, Montgomery,
Ala.; on behalf of the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
KERRY A. SCANLON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
COREY L. MAZE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
KERRY A. SCANLON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 08-9156, Wood v. Allen.
Mr. Scanlon.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KERRY A. SCANLON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SCANLON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Holly Wood was sentenced to death after his
lawyers failed to investigate or present to the jury
evidence of his undisputed mental deficiencies. That
evidence was readily available to any reasonably
competent attorney, and it offered powerful mitigation
which had a reasonable probability of changing the
sentence from death to life without parole.
No one on the sentencing jury had any idea
that Mr. Wood had any mental deficiency, much less that
he had an IQ between 59 and 64, which means he ranks in
the lowest one percent of the total population.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, if they had
introduced that evidence on behalf of the defendant,
there would have come in the report they had gotten
from -- who was it, Dr. Kirkland? Was that his name?
MR. SCANLON: That's correct, Justice
Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which said that, although
he -- he indeed was in the lower range of mental
agility, this did not affect his ability to discern
right from wrong.
MR. SCANLON: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He was not -- the Kirkland
report was not a favorable report for the defendant.
MR. SCANLON: Well, the Kirkland report was
not -- first of all, was only about his mental
competency and whether he had a mental disease or defect
that prevented him from knowing right from wrong. It
was an incompetency and insanity report.
This Court has made it clear in Atkins and
other cases that mentally retarded persons often know
the difference between right and wrong and are competent
to stand trial. What that report did have is a very
strong lead that he had a borderline intellectual
functioning. That is different from whether or not he
is able to go to trial or whether he --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but it didn't just
say borderline intellectual function. It went on to say
that did not affect his ability to perceive that he
was -- he was doing something wrong here.
MR. SCANLON: Each of the statements --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You know, if it had not
added that I would have said, oh, yeah, let's -- let's
pursue this further. But they -- it seems to me they
made an intelligent decision There was nothing here that
was going to help them and there might be stuff that
would hurt them.
MR. SCANLON: Justice Scalia, everything in
the Kirkland report that talked about his ability was
his ability to go to trial, that he was competent and
that he knew the difference between right and wrong.
Those findings in the Kirkland report that talk about
that relate only to that issue. It's an entirely
different issue, which the courts have made clear,
whether someone has significant mental deficiencies that
will -- will -- is the kind of evidence that garners
sympathy from the jury.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why is this question
properly before us in this case? The argument that you
seem to be making, and it's an argument to which you
devote a lot of your brief, seems to be that the -- the
State courts unreasonably applied Strickland to the
performance of the attorneys at the penalty phase.
Now, that is a, a (d)(1) argument,
2254(d)(1). But the two questions on which cert were
granted have to do with findings of fact. So they have
to do with (d)(2) and (e)(1) and not (d)(1) at all.
MR. SCANLON: Justice Alito, our primary
argument is a (d)(2) argument, and that is that there
was no strategic decision here, that in fact it was a
failure to investigate in violation of this Court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Was (d)(2) raised in
your habeas petition?
MR. SCANLON: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could you give me a
citation for that, where in the habeas petition you made
a (d)(2) claim as opposed to a (d)(1) claim?
MR. SCANLON: Well, our habeas -- I -- I can
get a cite for that, but our habeas petition was all
about failing to do an investigation in the State
court's findings that there had been a reasonable
investigation. The State court finding, Mr. Chief
Justice, is at page 201a and 202a of the petition
appendix.
And at that point the State courts talk
about eight historical facts and they conclude that
there was a reasonable investigation of the facts.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That factual
determination that you say is unreasonable under (d)(2),
that went to deficient performance?
MR. SCANLON: That went to deficient
performance, of course.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did the -- did the
State court make a ruling on prejudice under Strickland?
MR. SCANLON: The State court did make a
ruling on prejudice. And it made it on two grounds: It
found that he was not mentally retarded, which, of
course, is -- is -- is clearly unreasonable, because you
don't have to be mentally retarded to have it be
valuable evidence to present to the jury.
Secondly, they -- they found that the crime
was brutal in its nature, even though the trial court
had -- had -- had declined to give the instruction that
it was cruel and heinous.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you agree that we
have to find that it was an unreasonable determination
both with respect to performance and with respect to
prejudice to get you through the (d)(2) hurdle?
MR. SCANLON: Yes, of course, and I think we
can do that, and for the same reason, Mr. Chief Justice,
that it was not reasonable in the first place for
counsel to decide to stop their investigation. That's
because the evidence is so powerful. This is the most
powerful kind of mitigating evidence you can have in
this type of case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I take you back to
Justice Alito's question? As I read the lower court
decision, it was saying counsel made a strategic choice
not to pursue any further investigation with respect to
mental health, correct?
MR. SCANLON: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. And they
made it on the basis of a number of factors, including
the fact that there was testimony that the two senior
attorneys said: It's not going to help us if we do or
not. You may disagree with whether or not a strategic
decision was made or not, but if one can view the
evidence in any way as the attorney having made the
decision, isn't your argument that that decision was
unreasonable?
MR. SCANLON: Of course.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But isn't that what
Justice Alito asked you? That's not a dispute with the
factual finding that it was a strategic decision.
That's a dispute with the legal -- the legal -- whether
that strategic decision met the legal standard of
Strickland.
MR. SCANLON: That's correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So we're
back to Justice Alito's question, which is, isn't that a
(d)(1) instead of a (d)(2) argument, and we -- the
question presented only addressed the strategic
decision. It didn't address or present the question of
the Strickland question of whether that would have been
a reasonable strategic decision.
MR. SCANLON: Your Honor, that is our
alternative argument. Our -- our main argument is a
(d)(2) argument.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It might be your
alternative argument, but it's not the question
presented.
MR. SCANLON: No, I'm saying the fact
question is our primary argument. That is how we lost
in the Eleventh Circuit. The Eleventh Circuit made a
determination that it was not unreasonable to find that
there had been an adequate investigation by these
lawyers of a mental health defense. That's what the
Eleventh Circuit found.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When did that come up? I
thought that the facts as the Eleventh Circuit presented
them is that the senior lawyer first said: We want
Dr. Kirkland's report not simply on the question of
insanity and incompetence to stand trial, but also to
give us leads to mitigating evidence.
So mitigation is in his mind about looking
into this mental question. He reads Kirkland's report
and, for whatever reason, decides this isn't worth
pursuing; this is not going to help us.
I thought that that's what the Eleventh
Circuit said was the picture, that whether it was an
incompetent, ineffective decision is a separate
question, but as to what happened, why did the
investigation stop, because the senior lawyer said:
Yes, it's relevant to mitigation, but I looked at the
report and I think it's not wise for us to pursue
mitigation.
MR. SCANLON: Justice Ginsburg, that is what
the State argues. That is not what the Eleventh Circuit
found. On pages 56 and 57a of the petition appendix,
the Eleventh Circuit clearly makes a finding that there
had been a reasonable investigation done of this.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where is that? 56?
MR. SCANLON: Page 56a and page 57a of the
petition appendix, which is the Eleventh Circuit
decision. And if you look at page 56a, for example, the
Eleventh Circuit framed the issue correctly. They say:
Here the issue becomes, did counsel, before deciding not
to present evidence of Wood's borderline intellectual
function make reasonable investigation or a reasonable
decision that made particular investigations
unnecessary?
And they go on right after that on page 56
and 57 to say that they did a reasonable investigation.
They cite eight historical facts about that
investigation. Those facts are objectively --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm sorry that I don't
have that appendix with me now, but as I recall the
Eleventh Circuit was not making any independent
determination of its own, but it was reporting what the
senior lawyer -- his view of it. They were not making a
fact-finding as a tribunal.
MR. SCANLON: With all due respect, Justice
Ginsburg, if you look at the Eleventh Circuit decision
at this critical point, there is no reference to Mr.
Dozier, who is the senior lawyer. What the reference is
to are the State court findings, which they say at 57a
are amply supported by the record. Those findings were
that they did an investigation, that it was adequate,
and in fact, the State has now abandoned that position.
The State no longer claims that these
lawyers did any investigation at all. They claim that
they looked at the Kirkland report and made a decision
then and there to terminate any investigation, and that
-- that of course would be a violation under (d)(1).
But you first have to get to the fact issue, whether
they did an investigation in the first place.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You don't have the cite
for 542 F.3d, that part of the opinion? It's in
542 F.3d, 1281, but I don't have the particular page.
Okay.
MR. SCANLON: I'm sorry, I don't have the
F.2d cite.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Could you clarify one --
could you clarify one thing for me?
I understand that you can understand the
record as indicating that they made a reasonable
strategic decision not to let that report come in or
make these arguments at the guilt stage, but the
separate question is whether, did they also decide, make
the same decision with respect to the penalty phase?
And if they did, were they assuming that the Kirkland
report would become a part of the record at the penalty
stage as it would have at the guilt stage if it came in?
MR. SCANLON: Well, I think your question is
-- is right on point, because what Mr. Dozier was
thinking about when he said it didn't merit further
inquiry was the guilt phase.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Right.
MR. SCANLON: That's what he was focused on.
He -- he designated to Mr. Trotter, the junior lawyer,
the penalty phase, and therefore the fact that they
didn't make that decision is clear, because two months
later Mr. Dozier himself is going to the trial court
with Mr. Trotter and asking for psychological
evaluations and other reports.
Mr. Trotter, before the trial, says: Your
Honor, we have not investigated this; it needs further
assessment. So clearly --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That, what you said so
far, leaves out one thing; that is, I thought that
Dozier had said: We need, we have to get this Kirkland
report, and it's of interest to us for three purposes,
the two that were relevant to the guilt phase and the
one, mitigation, that was relevant to the penalty phase.
That suggests that in his mind, in Dozier's
mind from the start, was both phases, the guilt phase
and with respect to mitigation. And then he looked in
the report and, having said, we should see if there's
any leads to mitigation, then he next says, we're not
going forward with this.
MR. SCANLON: Well, Justice Ginsburg, the --
what Mr. Dozier said at that time was in response to a
leading question: Did you have the penalty phase in
mind? And he said: Of course.
Now, what he actually did when he requested
the Kirkland report was to limit it specifically to
competency and insanity, and so -- but even if Mr.
Dozier had that in mind, which I don't think the record
supports -- let's assume that he had that in mind. When
he got the Kirkland report, it's obvious the State
agrees with it. This Court's precedents show that
what's in the Kirkland report is an extremely strong
lead. He has borderline mental functioning. And
counsel were not able to simply not follow that lead.
Reasonable counsel would have seen that as a green
light, not a red light.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Now this case, for me at
least, is terribly confusing, because I thought, reading
the cert position, that the Court granted cert to deal
with a legal question that has confused the lower
courts, that is, what is the relationship between (d)(2)
and (e)(1) of AEDPA?
MR. SCANLON: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Now I read your brief and
I hear what you're saying so far. It seems to be that
you have a solid case under (d)(1); that is, that these
counsel were ineffective because they did not pursue
mental state mitigation.
But that would be a much different -- that
would be a fact-bound case tied to this record, as apart
from the legal question: What does unreasonable -- the
(d)(2) unreasonableness, how does it relate to the
(e)(1) presumed correct, clear and convincing evidence?
I thought that that legal question was why we granted
cert.
MR. SCANLON: And that is very central to
this case, and the reason it's central is because the
Eleventh Circuit got it wrong when they focused on
individual fact-findings, many of which were immaterial
to the claim, instead of looking at the entire State
court record, and so we --
JUSTICE ALITO: But that's an entirely
different question. I think that's the question. Did
the validity of the -- the conclusion made by the State
courts that there was a strategic decision not to
present this evidence until the -- the final judge stage
of the -- of the proceeding, and not whether there was a
reasonable investigation or whether they -- there was
reasonable performance overall at the penalty phase.
It's purely this question of the validity of
a finding of historical fact and how that is to be
evaluated under -- under (d), under (d)(2) and (e)(1).
MR. SCANLON: Right, and, if you look at
Eleventh Circuit's opinion, the majority opinion in this
case, what they did is, rather than look at the entire
record for reasonableness to see if the Petitioner had
shown that it was not reasonable, what they did was they
looked at individual fact-findings.
And -- and they said that those are not
rebutted by clear and convincing evidence; therefore,
it's reasonable. And that's the mistake.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But let's just talk
about the -- the finding of -- by the district court
that there was no strategic reason and the -- and the
disagreement with that in the Federal circuit, and let's
talk about it just under (d)(1) -- just under (d)(1).
MR. SCANLON: Okay.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you say that the
test is whether or not the -- that finding was clearly
erroneous?
MR. SCANLON: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that -- is that another
way?
MR. SCANLON: No. I think the standard is
much more difficult than that. I think the standard --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why -- why is
"unreasonable application" different from "clearly
erroneous"?
MR. SCANLON: I think it's -- I think
something could be incorrect, but it wouldn't be
unreasonable. I think something could be erroneous, but
it wouldn't be unreasonable.
I think that Congress made it clear that
(d)(2) was a deferential standard. It has teeth in it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm -- I'm talking
about (d)(1).
MR. SCANLON: Okay. Under (d)(1) --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I-- I beg your -- (d)( 2),
unreasonable determination of facts.
MR. SCANLON: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
MR. SCANLON: Right. And that is that
Congress said that a Petitioner has to show, before they
can go anywhere in their case, that that is objectively
unreasonable.
In the prior version of this statute, it was
much easier --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you -- you think there
can be findings that are clearly erroneous, but not an
unreasonable determination of facts?
MR. SCANLON: I think that this Court,
certainly, in the context of (d)(1) has said, in
Miller-El, that there is a difference between something
being erroneous and something being unreasonable.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm talking about (d)(2).
MR. SCANLON: I think it would -- I think it
would apply there, too. I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because the problem, as
Justice Ginsburg indicated, is that the courts of
appeals are looking for guidance as -- as to when we can
go into -- into these findings and set them aside.
MR. SCANLON: Right. Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it really is very
difficult for me to wear a "clearly erroneous" hat or an
"unreasonable determination of fact." I -- I just can't
sense any difference there.
MR. SCANLON: I -- I think the key
difference is this, Justice Kennedy, and that is that
when you have a "clearly erroneous" test -- or under --
under (e)(1), you're not looking at the entire factual
record. You're looking at independent fact-findings.
And that's where the Court got it wrong in this case.
And what this Court needs to do is clarify several
things. One, that (e)(1) does not mean and (d)(2) does
not mean that you have to show unreasonableness by clear
and convincing evidence. That's what the Court did in
this case, and the Eleventh Circuit has done that in
other cases.
JUSTICE BREYER: Do I have it right, in your
opinion, so far? I'm just interested in the
relationship between (d) and (e), and as I read it, just
to look at the language, it seems to me, in the (d)
case, we're talking about something that was decided on
a record in a State court.
And you -- you're the lawyer, trying to get
the Federal judge to say, that's all wrong. You're
going to say their facts are wrong, their fact-finding.
So you say: Judge, that was unreasonable, you know, in
light of the record. That's what you do under (d)(2)?
MR. SCANLON: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, (e) is a different
situation. (E) is a situation where, for some reason or
other -- and there are a few -- you are having a new
hearing in the Federal court.
One reason for having such a hearing could
be that there was a factual predicate that couldn't have
been discovered and it's very important. So you're get
into that Federal court hearing. And now, when you're
in the Federal court hearing it turns out that in the
earlier State court hearing there was a fact-finding
that has something to do with this. It may be not so
important, but it's over there and you want to get the
judge to ignore it.
So there you have to show what (d)(2) says.
You have the burden of saying that that was an
unreasonable fact-finding. That's what it says. Those
different words make -- seem sensible to me because the
proceeding is different, and the way we talk about the
proceedings is a little bit different. But as a
practical reality, I guess they come to about the same
thing.
All right. Now, forgetting my last comment,
have I got the first part right as you understand it?
MR. SCANLON: I think that's right. If
there's different evidence that's extrinsic to the State
court record, that is looked at in the Federal
evidentiary proceeding under --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that's -- that's what
the Ninth Circuit position developed by Judge Kozinski.
MR. SCANLON: That --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The only problem with
that, it would shrink the province of (e)(1) very
considerably, because overwhelmingly Federal habeas
petitioners do not get evidentiary hearings in Federal
court.
So, if we accept the Ninth Circuit's view of
it, then (e) -- (e)(1) applies to a rather small
category of cases; i.e., cases in which there is an
evidentiary hearing in the Federal habeas proceeding.
MR. SCANLON: But, Justice Ginsburg, (d)(2)
requires just as much deference, we believe, because of
the -- the need to show that it's objectively
unreasonable, so --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm -- I'm not talking
about (d)(2) now. We're talking about two provisions,
trying to make sense how do they relate to each other.
MR. SCANLON: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And one very
well-presented position is the Ninth Circuit's in Judge
Kozinski's opinion. My only question is am I right to
say that his view, which is your view, would leave very
little work for (e)(1) to do if (e)(1) applies only when
there's new evidence coming in; it's not just the -- the
record that was made in the State court, but new
evidence coming in in the Federal habeas.
MR. SCANLON: There's --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There are not -- not many
cases.
MR. SCANLON: There's less -- there's less
work to do, of course. It's ten percent of the cases or
so, but no deference is lost because (e)(1) does not
apply to the other 90 percent of the cases, because
(d)(2), that standard itself --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What you're saying is
(d)(2) is a vigorous standard, but, yes, your
description, unlike the opposing description of the
relationship between these two --
MR. SCANLON: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- does leave for (e)(1)
this maybe 10 percent of the cases, not more.
MR. SCANLON: And --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I go back to --
just to -- so that we're on the same page in my own
mind, what constitutes the State record? Because one of
the State amici posited situations in which the record
before the State court on the issue that it made its
determination would be one subset of evidence, and that,
perhaps as the State process developed on another issue
there was another record developed, and you're pointing
to that evidence in your argument of unreasonableness as
a reason for the lower court's decision being wrong.
So your use of that other evidence, does
that go under (d)(2) or (d)(1)?
MR. SCANLON: The other evidence -- if it --
if it's intrinsic to the State court record, then it
would be looked at under (d)(2), and the Petitioner
would have to show that, looking at all of that
evidence, the determination of fact was objectively
unreasonable only if the evidence is outside of that.
And -- and I think we agree, it's about ten percent of
the cases, but that's not insignificant for the role
that (e)(1) plays.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does that seem -- does
that seem reasonable, meaning the State court is making
a decision based on what's before it. Can't -- it can't
foretell unknown evidence and bring it into its
equation. So one has to presume that its finding based
on the evidence before it is correct.
If there's additional evidence, whether it's
part of a record that's developed elsewhere, not part of
what it based its decision on, and if you look at the
language of (d)(2), it talks about the record on the
fact determined. It doesn't talk about on the --
MR. SCANLON: Yes. And any new evidence
would be looked at under the clear and convincing
standard, whether that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you're changing your
earlier answer to me? You're going closer to what the
amici were suggesting, which is that record has to be
defined narrowly, it has to be the facts before the
court?
MR. SCANLON: No. I -- I understood your
question to mean that the facts were part of a State
court determination. It just wasn't the first one.
There were two different determinations, but they were
both in the State court proceeding.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure I
understand that, meaning often a trial court is
presented with evidence that determines something. This
was a strategic choice. It may be that later the State
court has a hearing on that question, but it may be that
it has a hearing on a different question altogether.
MR. SCANLON: Right, but --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And you're using the
evidence on the other question.
MR. SCANLON: And if it's within the State
court record, it is looked at under (d)(2).
And if I may reserve the remainder of my
time?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Could I ask a question?
Maybe you need a little extra time. I want to be sure I
understand one thing. What is your view of what the
unreasonable determination of facts was in this case,
either the decision not to go forward with further
investigation or that the results of the investigation
would not have been -- would have been -- would have
been prejudicial?
MR. SCANLON: Well, those are both
unreasonable determinations of fact. The first one,
that they did an investigation, is what the Eleventh
Circuit ruled. The State in this Court on the merits
brief changed its position and no longer argues that
they did an investigation, but they now say: We made a
decision because Kirkland report was a red light, we
made a decision not to go forward. That is also
unreasonable.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General Maze.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF COREY L. MAZE
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. MAZE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Based on the Court's questioning so far, I
believe that I, as did every amicus, believe the
questions presented in this case are the actual
questions listed in the petition. So unless this Court
has an objection, I'm going to focus on the (d)(2)
question and how it interplays with (e)(1). And I would
like to start with Justice Ginsburg's point about why
the Ninth Circuit opinion is wrong. And other than the
plain language, which was what we've discussed in the
brief --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I -- I didn't --
MR. MAZE: I --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I just want -- I just
described the Ninth Circuit decision. I didn't say it
was wrong.
MR. MAZE: I apologize. You're correct. I
would say it's wrong.
(Laughter.)
MR. MAZE: Because not only does it ignore
the plain language and, the point you made that it would
be 90 to 99 percent of the time it would cut it out, the
problem is is that position misses the bigger picture.
(E)(1) doesn't only apply when we're looking at (d)(2)
claims. In fact, (d)(2) claims are a very, very small
percentage of what the States deal with in habeas work.
Typically what we're dealing with are (d)(1) claims or
claims that weren't even adjudicated on the merits in
the State court. Let's say it was procedurally barred
in the State court and we're looking at the procedural
default rule.
If you're looking at applying the rule that
Judge Kozinski has forwarded in the Ninth Circuit, they
would say that (e)(1) is completely eviscerated if there
is no extrinsic evidence, even if we're looking at a
(d)(1) claim and even if we're looking at a procedurally
barred claim. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, isn't it --
isn't it the case that under (d)(1) or (d)(2) that's a
threshold determination, and once you get over that
(e)(1) would have work to do in determining whether
there was a violation of the Constitution or laws in the
first place?
MR. MAZE: Yes, (e)(1) is always going to
have an application. We would say that it has an
application at the moment the petition is filed. That
is, every single subsidiary finding of fact is presumed
to be true. Let's take a (d)(1) example, Terry Williams
v. Taylor. This Court said that you could overcome the
(d)(1) bar in Terry Williams because they had applied
the wrong law, they had applied Lockhart to Strickland's
prejudice inquiry. So you jumped over the (d)(1) bar.
At that point you look at the claim de novo.
But (e)(1) still has application. Its application is --
is every finding of fact that the State court made that
goes towards the prejudice determination is presumed to
be correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's under --
you've given yourself an easier case because you're
going -- you're getting over the threshold under (d)(1).
MR. MAZE: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The problem is
(d)(2) refers to determination of facts --
MR. MAZE: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- and asks whether
it's unreasonable. (E)(1) talks about facts and has a
whole different test, and I -- I guess the difficulty
I've had is -- is reconciling the two. To the extent
you can articulate their differences, why would you do
both?
MR. MAZE: And that is the difficulty.
Again, (d)(2) is very limited, the times we use it. But
yes, it is tough because you see both a "clear and
convincing" and an "objectively unreasonable" standard.
But the way to fix the problem is not to cut (e)(1) out
altogether for every type of claim. It's to try to find
a way to be able to work (e)(1) and the (d)(2) standard
together.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what's an example?
MR. MAZE: Let's take this case --
JUSTICE BREYER: I can't think of any --
give me an example --
MR. MAZE: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- where you're trying to
proceed under (d)(2), and (e)(1) is somehow relevant.
Couldn't think of one.
MR. MAZE: Let's take -- let's take this
case, for example. Let's switch the facts just a little
bit and let's say that the State court had made four
findings of fact. The first one is all three counsel
read the Kirkland report.
JUSTICE BREYER: Uh-huh.
MR. MAZE: The second fact is that all three
counsel talk to each other for 4 days about the Kirkland
report.
JUSTICE BREYER: Uh-huh.
MR. MAZE: The third fact is Carey Dozier,
lead counsel, made the decision not to seek another
evaluation; and the fourth fact is is that Carey Dozier,
lead counsel, decided not to present the Kirkland report
or similar evidence to the jury. Those are your four
facts that are presumed correct under (e)(1).
JUSTICE BREYER: No. You just look at them,
and you look under (d)(2), and you say this is an
unreasonable determination of fact, period. There's no
reason to go into (e)(1). I mean, if it is an
unreasonable determination of fact, he wins.
MR. MAZE: The reason --
JUSTICE BREYER: And if it isn't, you win.
MR. MAZE: The reason that you go under
(e)(1) is because Congress has said that you have to.
JUSTICE BREYER: It didn't say that. What
it says in (e)(1) is (e)(1) is talking about in a
proceeding instituted by an application by a person in
custody, the factual issue is presumed correct. But if
you fail to develop -- - you know, in a proceeding, it's
presumed correct.
You're right it doesn't say it literally.
But I can't figure out an application for it unless
they're talking about where there is a new hearing.
Otherwise there is just no need for it, it is just
repetitive and it gets people mixed up, and (d)(2) does
all the work.
MR. MAZE: Again, the problem is, is because
we're looking at an (e)(1)-(d)(2) situation, but that's
not the only situation.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me give you an
example involving exactly those two provisions and facts
very similar to the facts here. The State court finds
that a strategic decision was made, and that raises a
question under (d)(2): Was the State court's rejection
of the Strickland claim the result of a decision that
was based on an unreasonable determination of the facts
in light of the evidence presented in the State court
proceeding?
There are also a host of subsidiary findings
of historical fact because the attorneys testify and
documents are produced, and there are conflicts in the
testimony. And so there's a question of did -- did
Dozier and Ralph talk about this on a particular day?
Did Trotter write a letter to so-and-so? And so forth.
So you've got all these subsidiary -- all these findings
of historical fact, and they are to be reviewed under
(e)(1), under the plain language of (e)(1).
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: And then after they're
reviewed under the plain language of (e)(1), you turn to
the question under (d)(2), which is whether the decision
about whether there was a strategic decision was based
on -- based on an unreasonable determination of facts.
MR. MAZE: Correct. And Justice --
JUSTICE ALITO: So there's no conflict.
MR. MAZE: No. And Justice Alito, if -- the
way you said it is exactly where I was going with my
hypothetical. But --
JUSTICE BREYER: I see that, I see that.
MR. MAZE: The fourth --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's a possible way to
look at it.
MR. MAZE: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the problem I see with
that -- now I see why it's controverted, but the problem
with these standards of review, it just -- it mixes
people up, and it sounds as if you're bringing in a
hammer after you've brought in a saw, and the hammer
looks a little tougher than the saw, and -- but why get
into all this business?
MR. MAZE: Because I would come back with
the saying that this is almost like having, because
(d)(2) is so limited in what we do, you have a toe ache
but you're asking us to cut the leg completely off. I
mean, there's a much broader use of (e)(1) --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't understand that.
I thought that your -- your position in this case or at
least one of your positions is there was no unreasonable
determination of fact. Period.
MR. MAZE: Correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If you're right about
that then you win, and there's no reason in the world to
go on to (e)(1), that this case in your view should be
totally governed by (d)(2), that is, the determinations
of fact were reasonable. End of case.
MR. MAZE: That is not the position we took.
That position is what the Court ended up doing in Rice
v. Collins, saying that even if we don't answer the
question, the State wins. And you could do the same
thing here, too, that the strategic decision, finding of
fact is not unreasonable. But we're trying to help the
Court find a way to make (e)(1) and (d)(2) work
together.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, we have one here, and
my real objection, I guess -- and it's interesting, I
now see the conflict, with Justice Alito's clear
explanation of it. And I -- I suppose the -- the thing
I would ask you then is, look, my objection to it,
hypothetically, is it's too complicated. Lawyers have
enough trouble trying to figure this out.
MR. MAZE: I agree.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any reason we need
to interpret it that way? The language doesn't have to
be. Why not have just a simple, clear thing? If -- if
they're unreasonable, the State loses, and if they're
not unreasonable, the State wins. Da-da. That's too
simple. But why not use it?
MR. MAZE: If the Court would come back and
say that (e)(1) applies when the petition is filed and
that if you're outside the (d)(2) claim -- (e)(1) is not
tethered to the introduction of extrinsic evidence, it
simply applies.
But then you came back and said in the
limited circumstances in which we have a (d)(2) claim --
not a (d)(1) or a procedurally barred claim, but a
(d)(2) claim -- if the Court came back and said we're
going to treat objectionably unreasonable as the
equivalent of clear and convincing evidence -- that
means if you can prove that something is objectively
unreasonable, it also proves by clear and convincing
evidence it's wrong -- then that would not be a problem.
But again, what we're saying to the Court
is, is if you say that, you need to also say that (e)(1)
is still not tethered to extrinsic evidence --
evidentiary hearings, because (e)(1) applies in a much
broader scope that just the (d)(2) question.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, you don't
really want us to say that, because unreasonable, as
we've defined it in (d)(1), means it could be wrong, but
still not unreasonable.
MR. MAZE: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if we say that proof
of a -- by clear and convincing evidence that a decision
by the State court was incorrect, you can't equate --
you don't really want us equating that with (d)(2), do
you?
MR. MAZE: No. Let me -- let me be clear.
I was asking Justice Breyer's question about how he
could write it. I agree that our --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's why he -- that's
why he starting --
MR. MAZE: -- right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- from, I think what
he's saying is, what your adversary responded to Justice
Ginsburg, unreasonable really is much broader than clear
and convincing --
MR. MAZE: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- evidence on
correctness. You don't need it because whether the
decision is right or wrong is not the issue. Even if
it's wrong, it could still be reasonably wrong.
MR. MAZE: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, one could
quarrel with that proposition, but that's the state of
the law. So, why do you need (e)(1)? That's -- that's
Justice Breyer's question, as I understand it.
MR. MAZE: I agree. And, again, my position
is just what Justice Alito had said earlier, that's the
step-by-step way that we would approach it. That is the
way --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But work it out in
theory, okay?
MR. MAZE: Work it out in theory.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Work it out in theory.
There are -- you see, the difficulty with this case
is --
MR. MAZE: I did.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- one factual matter,
was a strategic decision made?
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There are a bunch of
subsidiary facts that -- that were made.
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If you're applying
(d)(2), the Court would look at all the subsidiary facts
and decide not whether they were correct or not, but
whether they were unreasonably incorrect, okay? If they
weren't unreasonably incorrect? So you don't have to
get to the correctness question by clear and convincing
evidence. If they're -- if they're not unreasonably
incorrect, the four subsidiary facts would then support
the fifth general question, correct?
MR. MAZE: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Either we agree it does
or it doesn't, but -- I -- I -- I don't understand why
you need (e)(1) because you never need to get to the
correctness of the finding.
MR. MAZE: If I could finish the
hypothetical earlier, I think I can show how (e)(1) and
(d)(2) can both have effect in the same case.
Again, we talked about the four facts that
might lead to the strategic decision. Let's say that
the State court record proves by clear and convincing
evidence that the three counsel never spoke to each
other at all about the Kirkland report, and that has
been proved wrong by clear and convincing evidence, but
you have the other three subsidiary findings of fact.
Then you go to (d)(2). You ask is an
objectionably unreasonable determination of the facts,
facts plural, which is how (d)(2) works, to say that a
strategic decision was made? Well, the answer would be,
no, it's not objectionably unreasonable, because we
still know it's presumed correct that Mr. Dozier read
the report and he made the decision. So --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me just interrupt
because I am trying to follow this here. The four facts
you have described would -- would support a conclusion
that it was not unreasonable to make a strategic
decision not to use the report at the guilt phase trial.
But what if one believes that it would have been
unreasonable not to pursue the investigation and --
and -- and to find out more facts for the penalty phase
trial, and the -- the -- the State court said, no, those
facts have answered the case.
Would the unreasonable use of the reasonable
facts violate the statute?
MR. MAZE: That would be (d)(1). If you --
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's exactly right.
MR. MAZE: Correct.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would that violate (d)(1)
if even -- even if every one of the subsidiary facts was
correctly filed and the conclusion drawn by the court
was also correct, that it was a reasonable strategic
decision at the guilt phase but unreasonable at the
penalty phase? How did -- what is the answer there?
MR. MAZE: The answer would than under 2254
(d)(1) you could overcome the habeas bar for penalty
phase because you have shown an unreasonable application
of Strickland to the facts that we have shown to be
correct. Again, we don't believe that's the question
presented, but the (d)(2) question is whether a
strategic decision was factually made. And if I may --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It also has to involve
what the strategic decision was?
MR. MAZE: Yes. And -- and in this case,
the factual finding, the strategic decision was twofold.
The strategic decision was not to seek a further mental
health evaluation after reading and conferring about the
Kirkland report and not to introduce the Kirkland report
or similar evidence to the penalty phase jury. That's
the question of historical fact that you're making under
(d)(2). And that determination of historical fact we
can show by the record is not objectively unreasonable.
And if I may, I would like to move to
Justice Ginsburg's questions earlier about what in the
record or her point about what in the record shows that
Mr. Dozier was actually thinking about the penalty phase
when he made the decision. And there are four parts of
the record that show he specifically had the penalty
phase in mind when he made the decision.
The first is what Justice Ginsburg had
pointed out, is that when he sought the penalty phase
about the -- the competency report, the Kirkland report,
on page 150 of the Joint Appendix he testified that one
reason was the fact he wanted mitigating evidence.
The second piece of evidence --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Somebody said it was put
in his mouth, the question was on cross-examination.
MR. MAZE: Well, point two was not put in
his mouth. Point two is page 140 of the Joint Appendix.
He was specifically asked, do you -- did you call any
witnesses in mitigation? And his answer was, I don't
recall. I know that we talked a lot to psychologists
and so forth.
The specific question was, do you remember
talking to any witnesses for mitigation purposes. And
the first thing that Mr. Dozier remembered was we did
talk to psychologists for mitigation purposes.
The clearest piece of evidence is page 283
of the Joint Appendix, and that is quote where Trotter
is asked about the Kilby -- I mean the Taylor Harden
report from Dr. Kirkland, and the part we keep quoting
is the fact he said that Cary Dozier came and told me
that we didn't need a further evaluation.
But what we haven't put in the brief and
brought up until now is the rest of the quote. Again,
it's on page 283 of the Joint Appendix. And he starts
off right after the dash saying he, meaning Cary Dozier,
determined that we didn't need any further evaluators
and no further recall because in the course of my
preparation, "my" being Trotter, in course of my
preparation for the penalty phase I would read things
about different psychological evaluations and had raised
that to him. And again he looked at the report and
thought that that wouldn't be needed.
So at the moment Cary Dozier made the
decision and told to it Trotter, it was specifically
because Trotter had come to him and said, I am getting
ready for the penalty phase, just as I was told. I have
been reading things about having mental health
evaluations.
On the page before, 282, he has just said
that, I could see issues, but because I was the young
attorney, I relied on the senior attorneys to resolve
them.
So he goes to Cary Dozier and says I have
read all of these things about mental health evaluations
for the penalty phase, should we do another one? And
Cary Dozier, lead counsel of 22 years, criminal
experience on both sides, says, I have read the Kirkland
report, we do not need a further evaluation.
It was the very next month that counsel
filed a motion to exclude all psychological evidence,
and the reason was, as Mr. Trotter told the trial court
in the trial court record on pages 2 -- of 72 and 73, we
don't want the State to introduce evidence that he is
prone to violent behavior, prone to violent behavior
being the quote. And the trial court asked Mr. Trotter
what evidence do you have that the State will do that?
He said the report that was done at Taylor Harden, that
being Dr. Kirkland's report.
So, here we are six weeks before trial they
are fighting to exclude evidence that he is prone to
violent behavior and specifically referring to the
Kirkland report. Again, because the very month before
Cary Dozier had told Trotter we will not have another
evaluation done because I have read the Kirkland report
and we are not going to do it any further.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I stop you just for
a factual clarification?
MR. MAZE: Yeah.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Did the defendant's
prior history with his other girlfriend come into the
penalty stage of the trial?
MR. MAZE: No, at the trial it did not. And
in fact, the State --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So this was a wise
strategic decision, perhaps, with respect to the penalty
phase?
MR. MAZE: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It did come in at the
trial -- at the sentencing phase, correct?
MR. MAZE: Are you talking about in front of
the judge?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In front of the jury.
MR. MAZE: No, the jury never found out
about it, because Trotter and Dozier fought to keep it
out. And, in fact, had the Kirkland report been
admitted or had counsel followed --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We're not arguing about
the penalty phase. The issue is if the trial judge at
sentencing did hear about the prior assaulted behavior
anyway, what would have been the strategic decision not
to pursue further evaluations because they -- there's no
likelihood in my mind that similar assaultive behavior
was ever going to be kept out of the sentencing phase.
That's true, isn't it? That's one of the strongest
aggravating factors that you could prove, correct?
MR. MAZE: Right. I think your point is, is
that there was no way they were could prevent the jury
from hearing about the other sort of violent behavior he
had except for keeping out the mental health.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The sentencing --
MR. MAZE: Jury. The penalty phase jury --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- jury. Not the
penalty phase?
MR. MAZE: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that's really -- I
think that was Justice Stevens' question, which was,
what was the strategic basis of a decision not to pursue
mental health information when everything you wanted to
keep out of the penalty phase would be coming at the
sentencing phase anyway?
MR. MAZE: Let me see if I'm understanding
the question correctly. You're saying that let's assume
that it was strategic not to allow the jury that gives
the advisory verdict that can turn into a mitigating
circumstance the ability to find out about the previous
assault and all of his other prior assaults, but not to
seek a further evaluation in time for the judge, who
makes the ultimate sentence, that's your question?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the question.
MR. MAZE: All right. Under Alabama law,
you have one trial. You have the expert witnesses
testify in front of the jury. The time gap between the
judge hearing it and the jury making their initial
penalty phase advisory verdict is simply so a
presentence investigation report can be made.
In this case, the presentence investigation
report was made. The two prior psychological
evaluations were attached to it by our Rule 26.3.
It's -- let me be honest. It is an open question under
Alabama law whether you can present new witnesses and
new evidence in front of the sentencing judge.
The Alabama courts, in a case called Boyd v.
State, and I will give you the cite, it's 746 So.2nd
364, and the pinpoint is 398, had said counsel cannot be
ineffective for failing to put on new witnesses and new
experts in front of the sentencing judge because our
statute doesn't give you the opportunity, doesn't allow
for it.
All that the sentencing hearing in front of
the judge is for is for the judge to allow counsel to
give a final argument after the presentence
investigation report has come in and counsel has ensured
that it's correct.
We have had a Federal district court say
that, I believe that's unconstitutional, I don't think
you should be allowed to prevent counsel from presenting
new evidence in front of the judge, in the way you're
suggesting; but, again, that's open -- it's an open
question.
The point here is, though, that's not the
claim that was adjudicated in front of the state court,
and, again, this is AEDPA 2254(d). The only merits
determination made by the State court and, thus, the
only thing this court can hold the State court in error
for, is whether or not there was a strategic decision to
withhold it from the jury and whether that question is
prejudicial because what you would have to do --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That -- that brings us to
the point of beginning. And could you give me, in
summary form, your best interpretation of both (d) and
(e), (d)(1), (d)(2), (e)(1), in light of the deference
that the Federal courts should pay to State
determinations?
It seems to me that, if you use -- if you
reserve (e)(1) for cases in which there's a hearing in
the District Court, then it's somewhat counterintuitive
because the strongest standard applies to the accused.
He has the greatest burden, when the State hearing was
the least effective.
On the other hand, if they overlap, there --
then (d)(2) is often superfluous, so I have a choice of
something that is counterintuitive or superfluous, and I
don't know which one to take.
MR. MAZE: I agree. If --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and -- but maybe
there is -- is some more general theory that you can
give me.
MR. MAZE: There is.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Res judicata doesn't work.
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Although I think Congress
might have had something like that in mind.
MR. MAZE: If I may, let me give you the way
we see (e)(1) working on a broader scope. And we ran
into the problem that Mr. Chief Justice had mentioned
earlier, about how (e)(1) applies to (d)(2).
Here's how we believe (e)(1) works
altogether under AEDPA: A petition is filed. At the
moment that petition is filed, all subsidiary findings
of fact are presumed correct under (e)(1). The next
question you should answer should be will extrinsic
evidence come in, either under Rule 7 through
affidavits, et cetera, under Rule 8 in evidentiary
hearing.
If the answer to the question is, yes, we
will accept extrinsic evidence, then you accept the
extrinsic evidence, and you have the question this Court
couldn't answer last year in Bell v. Kelly. How does
2254(d) work after that?
Now, let's say that you answer the question,
no, you will not have extrinsic evidence, which is the
case you have here, and you move over the 2251(d) bars.
If they're only arguing (d)(1), you don't have a problem
because you simply look at the application.
The problem runs in when you have a (d)(2)
claim with new extrinsic evidence -- with no extrinsic
evidence. Excuse me. The way I think that it should
work and the way it will work all the way down the line,
no matter how the Court comes to it, is to say that the
smaller subsidiary findings of fact are presumed correct
until, in this case, the record evidence shows that
they're clear and convincingly wrong.
An example of that would be Miller-El 2. In
Miller-El 2, you found that the state record evidence
proved that defining that there was sexual abuse in
the -- in the State court records was proved wrong by
clear and convincing evidence.
At that point, you can say, well, it's also
a (d)(2) violation because it's objectively
unreasonable.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I -- can I suggest --
it doesn't seem to me there's any -- any contradiction
between the two. (E)(1) addresses a factual finding.
(D)(2), on the other hand, addresses the decision of the
Court, which was based on, sometimes, just one factual
finding, but, sometimes, many.
So you -- you proceed, first, with (e)(1),
and you -- you ask whether each factual finding on which
the decision was based was shown by the defendant,
either in the record, or if -- if you have an additional
hearings, by new evidence, to be incorrect by clear and
convincing evidence. You do that fact-by-fact.
Having found, let's say, two of the five
facts. To fail that test, you then go up to (d)(2) and
say, okay, in light of the fact that two of the facts --
in light of the fact -- since two of the facts that the
court relied on were false, was the decision vitiated by
that reason, or was it nonetheless a reasonable
determination?
I mean, once you focus on the fact that
(e)(1) applies to facts and (d)(2) applies to the
decision, it's whether the decision was -- was based on
an unreasonable determination of the facts.
MR. MAZE: I think that, in two minutes,
you've said it better than I did --
JUSTICE BREYER: If that's so, why would we
not soon have what I call the habeas corpus
jurisprudence of what is a subsidiary and what is a
major fact and what is a finding?
And what's wonderful about that is no habeas
corpus proceeding will ever end because, throughout the
country, people will make mistakes about what is the --
what is the subsidiary and the subsidiary to the
subsidiary, and then what is the more general, and
pretty soon, we'll have all -- everybody will be arguing
about that, and there will only be four professors in
the country who understand which is which, and they will
each say different things.
MR. MAZE: I -- I would disagree. I think
the district courts can handle that question. I
don't -- I don't -- I mean, they've been handling it
since AEDPA came out in '96.
I see that my time is almost through. I
want to make --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I don't think
they've been handling it. I think there's a tremendous
confusion, and I -- I find it very difficult to write an
opinion to give them guidance as to when they can set
aside hearings, to what extent they have to review the
entire record.
To me, I think many courts of appeals and
district of -- and district courts think that it's just
like a clearly erroneous standard. It's very hard to --
to use these standards to give you any concrete guidance
in this specific case.
MR. MAZE: I agree. It's difficult, but
again, that's why we're saying just use the plain
language. Look at the smaller subsidiary findings of
fact, to see whether or not you can rebut the
presumption, and, as Justice Scalia said, you look at
the overall decision and see if it was based on a
determination of facts, a larger bundle of facts, to see
whether or not it was unreasonable.
Again, my time is about to run out. I want
to make one final point. Mr. Scanlon has said that
prejudice also has a 2254(d) bar in it in this case, and
we agree with that because there was a merits
adjudication on prejudice.
I would simply might like to make the point,
regardless of how the Court comes out on the (d)(2)
question on deficient performance, it cannot overcome
the 2250(d) bar for prejudice here because, again,
simply knowing that someone had the low IQ and had a low
grammar school kind of education level, we are in the
unique position where the sentencer actually knew that.
So we have a very large insight into what
the sentencer would have done. There's no -- it's not
objectively unreasonable to believe the sentencer would
have done, again, what he had done the first time had he
heard similar facts.
So, if the Court has no further questions, I
will cede my time to the Court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
MR. MAZE: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Scanlon, you
have three minutes remaining, but I'll give you more,
since I would like to start with a question. My first
question was whether your petition was under (d)(2), and
during the argument, I went back and looked at the
petition.
And I see the exact language of (d)(1)
quoted in paragraphs 45, 52, 58, 63, 71, 76, 82, 90, 94,
97, and 104, (d)(1), and, unless I'm missing it, nowhere
do I see the language of (d)(2). I see the language of
(d)(2) in your cert petition questions.
Now, I think there's a huge difference
between (d)(1) and (d)(2). We've been talking about
(d)(2) in a case that was only brought under (d)(1).
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KERRY A. SCANLON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SCANLON: Well, it was brought -- with
all due respect, Mr. Chief Justice, under (d)(2), as
well, because the central focus was the factual
allegation, the factual findings made by the State
court. That's what the petition was based on, and
that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is the language --
but then I -- you knew to quote the language of (d)(1).
You did it -- I think it's more than a dozen times. You
never quoted the language of (d)(2).
Now, going back, you can say, well, we talk
about these facts or those facts, but that is also
relevant to the application question under (d)(1).
MR. SCANLON: But there were -- there was
language about unreasonable application -- unreasonable
determination of the fact. That was always part of the
petition. That's what was focused on.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, yes, I find it
hard for you to -- to understand how you can say it was
focused on when you quote (d)(1) twelve times and never
quote (d)(2). It would seem to me that the focus was on
(d)(1).
MR. SCANLON: Well, I think the focus was on
both. And these cases, they're inextricably linked
together as well, because these determinations of
whether something is strategic is not only a factual
determination, but it's a determination that has legal
principles under Strickland and Wiggins and Williams.
But another thing I would like to say, in
answer to Justice Kennedy's question, is (d)(2) should
never be made superfluous in this, because that is the
primary provision in this statute. It calls for looking
at the entire State record. It's a very strong
deference standard. (E)(1) has its application, but it
would be incredibly complicated for this Court to tell
lower courts to apply (e)(1) on top of (e)(2).
And Justice Alito, in your example, the
problem in this case was that they looked at subsidiary
facts; half of them were immaterial to the claim
completely. And then the State court jumped from the
fact that those were not rebutted by clear and
convincing evidence to deciding immediately that
everything was therefore reasonable.
And that's why the courts have had a hard
time with this standard, is AEDPA is hard enough to
understand as it is, but if they are asked to put in a
correctness standard on top of a reasonableness
standard, and then you've got the difficulty of defining
what's a subsidiary finding, and Justice Scalia, the
points you made, it's actually very difficult, because
(e)(1) focuses on the determination of a factual issue.
(D)(2) focuses on the determination of the facts. It's
not a decision in (d)(2); it's the determination of the
facts.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, no. It resulted in
a decision that was based on an unreasonable
determination of facts.
MR. SCANLON: Right, and what the Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It focuses on the decision,
whether the decision could have been reached --
MR. SCANLON: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- without the use of any
facts that had been found to be false.
MR. SCANLON: Right, but in every (d)(2)
case this Court has considered from the lower courts,
what they focus on is whether it's an unreasonable
determination, as opposed to focusing on the word
"decision." And I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think there's
a difference between a (d)(1) case and a (d)(2) case?
MR. SCANLON: Yes, there is. But in this
case, I want to make it clear that whatever the standard
the Court adopts in this case, the Petitioner has
clearly made its case, because there was evidence. They
never did any investigation when they had this strong
lead. And Strickland and Wiggins, if they mean
anything, means that you have to make an informed
decision after an investigation. And in this case there
was no investigation.
They now concede that, and there was no
reasonable decision made that the investigation should
be limited. And the Eleventh Circuit got that right.
They simply found the wrong facts.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:04 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
43:25 Alito 5:17 6:2 49:1,1 22:6 32:3 25:1,21 40:7
30:12 31:6,12 26:9 53:16 51:19 52:16 bringing 31:24
55:18 53:17 36:6 38:9 50:21 broader 32:7
33:3 argues 10:12 barred 26:14,22 46:19
allow 43:23 47:13 49:15 based 23:4,6,10 brutal 7:11
amici 22:9 23:18 22:14 25:8 basis 8:7 43:17
38:7,8 39:19 articulate 28:4 25:9 52:5 calls 53:12
45:11 53:10 asked 8:17 41:14,21 42:24 Cary 40:5,10,18
anyway 42:25 41:15 54:1 believe 20:25 case 3:4 5:18
50:6 assaulted 42:24 Bell 47:8 25:14 26:24
46:23 1:17 assaults 44:1 better 49:5 32:9,15,17
53:25 appendix 6:18 assessment 13:7 bigger 26:8 35:22 36:22
application Atkins 4:14 14:7 52:3 53:18
34:21 30:4 38:10 8:12 41:1 19:10 28:14,16 55:17
36:16 47:14 52:18,20 attorneys 5:22 28:19 29:2,6 cases 4:15 18:22
50:11,22 53:14 8:9 30:22 41:1 29:13,19,22 20:22,22 21:17
45:25 53:19 conclude 6:20 36:8,14,15 45:13,14,14
claims 11:19 conclusion 37:10 38:1,5 46:1 47:7,19
clarify 12:7,8 conferring CORRECTI... 54:13,20 55:3
15:4 clear 4:14 5:13 conflict 31:12 correctly 10:20 6:19 14:15
13:1 15:2 16:4 33:3 38:4 43:22 15:14 18:3
35:2 36:11,25 Congress 17:2 14:21 25:6 14:5 22:15
7:2,14 48:2,16 53:21 46:16 29:10 34:9 crime 7:10
25:6,10 55:2 considerably 37:1 41:6,9 criminal 41:6
27:18,22 clearest 40:1 20:17 42:21 44:19,25 critical 11:13
46:20 clearly 7:7 10:14 considered 45:2,6 55:15 cross-examina...
52:7 13:7 16:13,21 54:20 counterintuitive 39:15
54:24
18:8,13 constitutes 22:8 46:1,7 cruel 7:13
50:8 55:4 Constitution country 49:12 custody 29:25
Collins 32:20 context 17:21 course 3:21 7:1 32:6
10:4 12:11 20:4 48:7 11:23 13:23
33:15 controverted 21:19 40:12,13 d 3:1 5:23 6:1,1
15:7 40:20 42:5,13 31:22 court 1:1,15 3:9 6:3,6,11,11,23
18:21 45:2 47:2 convincing 15:2 4:14 6:5,16 7:3 7:17 8:25,25
24:25 comes 47:19 16:4 18:20 7:4,11 8:1
11:23
26:18
23:14 28:9 11:15 13:2 14:15,20 15:1
coming 21:12,14 33:25 34:2,15 14:13 15:10 15:21,21 16:10
21:8 comment 20:6 37:3 48:2,17 18:16,17,20 17:7,21,24
1:7 convincingly 19:19 20:10,19 19:8,23 20:24
4:11 14:1 COREY 1:20 23:3,20,23,25 22:17,17,20
26:9,10
44:18
5:9 correct 3:25 8:4 26:15 27:9,15 26:12,21,24,24
15:9 26:19 32:6 19:9 23:7 26:2 32:19,24 33:15 27:23 28:7,12
27:13 53:20 27:17,21 29:12 33:23 34:4,16 28:20 29:14
30:17 complicated 29:25 30:2 36:7,25 37:20 30:7,10,16
33:6 53:15 31:11 32:12 38:4 41:11,12 31:8 32:5,16
47:16 concede 55:10 34:13 35:4 41:15 45:4,11 32:24 33:17,21
34:8 48:22 49:2,2 23:24 24:23 12:19 13:2,10 36:16 47:2
36:7 50:16 54:8,11 32:16 45:23 13:21 14:2 48:15
37:5,7 54:14,15,23 53:5 29:7,9 30:25 Eleventh 9:13
38:2,9 55:8,11 determined 37:10 39:4,24 9:13,17,19
45:20 declined 7:12 23:12 40:11 40:5,10,18 10:3,12,14,18
46:6 default 26:16 determines 24:3 41:3,6,23 10:20 11:7,12
47:13,15 defect 4:11 determining 42:19 15:7,23 18:21
49:1 defendant 3:22 27:1 Dozier's 13:14 24:24 55:12
51:18,21 4:8 48:14 develop 30:1 Dr 3:24 9:21 ended 32:19
defendant's developed 20:13 40:4 41:18 ensured 45:2
42:4 22:12,13 23:9 drawn 38:4 entire 15:9,24
defense 9:16 devote 5:20 due 11:11 52:7 18:14 50:5
54:7 deference 20:25 difference 4:16 D.C 1:11,18 53:13
21:20 45:21 5:10 17:22 entirely 5:12
36:8 defining 47:25 40:15 49:18 27:14 28:1,10 50:8
DEPARTME... 18:8 50:2,11 29:16,21,23,23 ESQ 1:18,20 2:3
37:14 35:22 54:3 33:16,17 34:5 evaluated 15:21
21:25,25 49:19 36:18,21 45:21 38:20 40:6
9:2,4 designated disagreement 45:21,25 46:19 41:8,24 44:2
12:24 16:9 46:21,22,25 evaluations 13:4
12:11 determination discern 4:4 48:8,12 49:1 40:15,23 41:4
13:1 6:23 7:15 9:14 discovered 53:14,16,16 43:1 44:13
22:15 11:8 17:8,19 19:16 54:6 evaluators
24:18 18:9 22:11,22 discussed 25:20 earlier 19:19 40:11
29:8 23:23 24:17 disease 4:11 23:17 35:15 everybody
31:8 26:25 27:16,23 dispute 8:17,19 36:21 39:2 49:15
32:22 29:15,17 30:18 district 16:7 46:21 evidence 3:12,13
35:7 31:10 32:11 45:4 46:1 easier 17:16 3:22 5:15 7:9
37:8 37:6 38:24 49:20 50:7,7 27:19 7:22,23 8:12
38:6 45:13 48:24 documents education 51:4 9:23 10:22
49:3 50:17 30:23 effect 36:22 15:2,15 16:4
40:19 52:21 53:7,7 doing 4:24 32:19 effective 46:4 18:20 20:9
43:17 54:6,7,8,12,22 dozen 52:14 eight 6:20 11:3 21:12,14 22:11
48:9,14 determinations Dozier 11:14 either 24:18 22:14,16,18,22
23:5,7,8 18:9 22:22 18:15 24:23 27:3 41:8,25 43:1
24:3,9 23:12 24:23 fail 30:1 48:19 28:25 39:8,24 44:2 51:11
29:11 26:10 27:7,15 failed 3:11 48:12 51:9,17 F.2d 12:6
33:18,25 28:25 29:3,7,9 failing 6:14 five 48:18 F.3d 12:2,3
35:5
30:22 44:20 fix 28:10
37:1,3 31:3 32:11,17 failure 6:5 focus 25:16 G
39:12,13 32:23 37:4 false 48:22 48:25 52:8 G 3:1
41:10,13 38:23,24 39:12 54:18 53:1,3 54:21
44:16
42:8,20 far 13:9 14:19 focused 12:23 garners 5:15
47:2,6,7 46:25 47:20 18:24 25:12 15:7 52:22,25
favorable 4:8 focuses 54:6,7 25:7 36:14
48:2,16 49:9 50:14 Federal 16:9 54:14 46:11 49:14
53:22 52:21 53:21 19:5,13,17,18 focusing 54:22 51:13
factors 8:7 43:5 20:10,17,18,23 follow 14:8 getting 27:20
9:19 11:3,4 fifth 36:14 followed 42:21 Ginsburg 9:18
47:3 17:8,19 19:6 fighting 41:20 foretell 23:5 10:11,16 11:5
27:23 28:1,23 filed 27:6 33:16 form 45:20 14:11,18 18:3
37:25 36:4,7,13,23 final 15:15 45:1 24:18 25:4 22:3 25:22,24
28:14,17 37:21,23 38:3 find 7:15 9:14 26:18 39:8,14
30:13 38:11 48:19,20 28:11 32:24 fought 42:19 Ginsburg's
53:17 48:21 49:1,3 37:19 43:25 found 7:6,10 25:18 39:2
52:17,17 53:19 finding 6:16 42:18 47:24 give 6:9 7:12
35:25 38:18 48:13 49:9 fourth 29:9 given 27:19
33:18 fact-bound 28:25 30:21 45:7,11 25:4 29:16,20
47:1,6,7 14:24 31:2 37:4 function 4:22
37:5
50:13 52:9 functioning 4:19 goes 27:16 41:3
11:18,24 fact-findings 9:20 11:24,25 24:18 38:19 25:16 27:4,20
15:20 15:8 16:2 20:7 23:23 40:6,11,12 31:14 33:24
43:3 44:24 45:25 independent 10:7,15,23 8:24 9:8,18
46:3 47:4 11:7 18:15 11:2,4,17,20 10:11,16 11:5
15:3 help 5:5 8:9 10:2
38:23,24 43:18 IQ 3:19 51:3 22:3,6 23:2,16
hold 45:14 initial 44:8 10:20,21 11:24 25:10,18,22,24
13:12,15 honest 44:14 27:12 35:7 42:23 27:25 28:14,16
38:6 Honor 9:5 13:6insanity 4:13 54:6 28:19 29:2,6
20:17 hurt 5:6 22:25 J 31:21 32:8,13
21:14 hypothetical instituted 29:24 Joint 39:11,17 33:1,3,9 34:9
38:9 31:15 36:21 instruction 7:12 40:2,9 34:14,20,22,25
hypotheticallyintellectual 4:18 judge 15:15 19:5 35:1,5,10,13
I interest 13:11 42:16,23 44:2 37:12,25 38:2
immaterial 15:8 interpret 33:10 jumped 27:12 43:10,12,15,16
53:22 interrupt 37:12 jurisprudence 48:6 49:6,25
19:21 introduce 38:21 jury 3:11,17 52:7,12,23
40:22 9:22 introduction 43:7,11,11,12 55:15
43:9,18 incompetency 33:18 43:23 44:7,8
incompetent 6:5 Justice 3:3,8,21 keep 40:4 42:19
34:16 36:9,10 investigation 6:9,17,22 7:2 Kelly 47:8
24:5,6 36:13 48:16 6:14,16,21 7:14,19,25 8:1 Kennedy 12:1
43:8 44:8 incredibly 53:15 7:21 8:3 9:15 8:6,16,17,23 16:6,12,16,20
Laughter 26:4 longer 11:19 31:13,17,20 missing 51:23
18:2,7 law 27:11 35:12 25:1 32:3,12,18 mistake 16:5
45:18 44:5,15 look 10:19 11:12 33:8,15 34:13 mistakes 49:12
laws 27:2 15:22,24 19:1 34:19,24 35:4 mitigating 7:23
lawyer 9:20 10:7 23:10 27:13 35:9,14,20,24 9:23 39:12
19:4 33:5 36:7 37:24 38:1,8 mitigation 3:14
3:6 52:4 33:6 11:21 13:16 42:18 43:6,11 14:22 39:19,23
leading 13:22 51:19 53:18 51:14 moment 27:6
5:8,11 leave 21:10 22:3 15:9 18:4,14 23:22 29:16 Montgomery
12:15 leaves 13:9 18:15 22:21 32:7 35:10 1:20
14:4
25:3 29:1 legal 8:19,19,20 26:21 30:10 49:21 55:6 months 13:1
37:2
15:3 53:12 meaning 23:3 motion 41:10
39:10 53:7 looks 32:1 24:2 40:10 mouth 39:15,17
41:7,22 letter 31:1 loses 33:12 means 3:19 34:1 move 39:1 47:12
42:20 let's 5:2,2 14:3 lost 9:12 21:20 34:11 55:7
41:18 27:8 28:15,22 low 51:3,3 4:3,10,11 5:14 N 2:1,1 3:1
36:24 43:22 14:14 22:15 14:7,22 38:19 narrowly 23:19
30:1 level 51:4 lowest 3:20 43:9,18 need 13:10 21:1
39:20 life 3:16 mentally 4:15 24:15 30:6
light 14:10,10 M 7:6,8 33:9 34:5 35:6
30:19 45:21 major 49:9 46:20 40:6,11 41:8
likelihood 43:2 making 5:19 merits 24:25 needs 13:6 18:17
25:20 linked 53:4 Maze 1:20 2:5 mind 9:24 13:14 30:5 44:15,16
31:4,7 listed 25:15 25:7,8,10,23 13:15,23 14:2 44:20,20 45:7
50:13 literally 30:3 26:2,5 27:4,21 14:3 22:8 39:7 47:16 48:16
little 20:3 21:11 27:24 28:6,15 43:2 46:17
28:23 28:18,22 29:3 minutes 49:4 21:8 25:19,25
12:3 22:7 Petitioner 1:4 powerful 3:14 47:13,15 53:18
41:12 55:3 predicate 19:15 26:14,21 33:22
37:6,9 51:22 20:18 7:17 27:12,16 48:12
21:1 part 12:2,16 12:14,21,25 prejudicial 15:16 20:2,11
28:9 20:7 23:9,9,22 13:12,13,15,22 24:21 45:17 20:23 23:25
38:25 40:4 52:21 15:18 37:16,19 preparation 29:24 30:1,20
51:8 particular 10:24 38:6,7,10,22 40:13,14 49:11
35:19 12:14,16,25 43:20 44:9 presented 9:1,10 professors 49:16
48:20 13:13,22 15:18 phases 13:15 9:19 24:3 prone 41:14,14
38:22 39:4,6,9 26:8 38:13 proof 34:14
42:6,10,23 pinpoint 44:19 44:10,11 45:1 proposition
18:24 44:9 27:3 presume 23:6 prove 34:1 43:5
25:19 people 30:7 plain 25:20 26:6 presumed 15:2 proved 37:3
31:24 49:12 31:4,7 50:12 27:7,16 29:12 47:25 48:1
percent 3:20 please 3:9 25:11 37:10 46:25 36:25
22:24 26:7 point 6:19 11:13 presumption provision 53:12
performance 39:3,16,17 prevent 43:7 psychological
7:16 15:18 48:3 50:20,24 prevented 4:12 41:10 44:12
period 29:15 pointing 22:13 primary 6:2 39:20,25
51:1 person 29:24 population 3:20 principles 53:8 purposes 13:11
6:13,17 10:13 14:13 20:13 probability 3:15 10:9 14:21
25:15 21:8 25:1 26:8 problem 18:2 37:18 43:1,17
44:20 18:25 29:1 22:8,9,13,19 reporting 11:8 55:15
37:10 40:14 23:9,11,18 reports 13:4 role 22:25
9:1,2,3 ready 40:21 records 48:1 resolve 41:1 runs 47:15
real 33:2 red 14:10 25:3 respect 7:16,16
12:13,18 reality 20:4 reference 11:13 8:3 11:11 S
14:14,25 really 18:7 11:14 12:14 13:16 S 2:1 3:1
34:10,17 35:2 referring 41:21 42:10 52:7 saw 31:25 32:1
23:22 43:15 refers 27:23 responded 35:1 saying 8:2 9:11
reason 7:19 10:1 regardless 50:25 Respondents 14:19 19:24
30:16,24 15:6 16:8 rejection 30:16 1:21 2:6 25:9 21:23 32:4,20
32:21 19:11,14 22:15 relate 5:12 15:1 response 13:21 34:4 35:1
35:13 29:16,18,20 21:5 rest 40:8 40:10 43:22
38:12 32:14 33:9 relationship result 30:17 50:12
39:15 39:12 41:11 14:15 18:25 resulted 54:10 says 13:5,18
43:16,22 48:23 22:1 results 24:19 19:23,25 29:23
45:9 reasonable 3:15 relevant 10:8 retarded 4:15 41:3,7
47:1,5,7 6:15,21 7:20 13:12,13 28:20 7:6,8 Scalia 3:21 4:1,2
49:20 9:4 10:15,23 52:18 review 31:23 4:7,21 5:1,7
10:23 11:2 relied 41:1 50:4 48:6 50:15
53:10 12:10 14:9 48:22 reviewed 31:3,7 54:4,10,14,17
16:5 23:3 24:12 RICHARD 1:6 2:8 3:5,6,8,25
39:2 38:5 48:23 remember 5:10 8:6,23 6:2,8,12,25 7:4
53:23 55:11 39:22 11:1 12:19,22 7:18 8:5,15,22
52:13,25 15:25 54:2 39:24 17:9,11 18:6,6 10:17 11:11
reasonably 3:13 repetitive 30:7 18:23 20:6,7,8 12:5,18,23
rebut 50:14 4:8,9,13,17 5:8 24:7 30:3 31:5 15:5,22 16:11
52:4 10:9 11:21 35:7 36:2,5 17:6,9,11,20
simply 9:21 14:8 16:18,19 17:3 9:4 12:11
31:16,16 51:3 55:13 50:8 53:14,25 31:9 32:22 take 7:25 27:8
33:3 single 27:7 54:2,3 55:2 36:1,24 37:8 28:15,22,22
40:25 situation 19:11 standards 31:23 37:15 38:5,14 46:8
46:19 19:11 30:10,11 50:9 38:16,18,19 talk 5:11 6:19
50:14,16 situations 22:9 start 13:15 42:10,25 43:17 16:6,10 20:2
51:21,24 six 41:19 25:18 51:17 43:23 45:15 23:12 29:4
small 20:21 starting 34:23 53:6 30:25 39:25
smaller 47:20 state 5:21 6:14 7:3 8:21 9:3 talked 5:8 36:23
11:9,14 solid 14:20 11:19 14:4,22 Strickland's 19:2 21:3,4
Somebody 15:9,13 19:3 27:11 29:23 30:5
sorry 11:5 12:5 23:3,22,25 46:2 Taylor 27:9 40:3
7:25 8:6,16,23 28:24 30:14,16 55:18 tell 53:15
43:3 23:16 24:1,8 33:12,13 34:16 subsidiary 27:7
44:16
35:11 36:25 30:21 31:2 terribly 14:12
35:5,10,18,21 37:20 41:13,16 36:4,7,13 37:4 Terry 27:8,10
36:16 42:1,4,9 45:11,13,14,22 47:20 49:8,13 28:2 48:19
19:23 sought 39:9 statements 4:25 suggesting testimony 8:8
22:21 sounds 31:24 States 1:1,15 23:18 45:8 30:24
38:25 so-and-so 31:1 26:11 suggests 13:14 tethered 33:18
So.2nd 44:18 statute 17:15 summary 45:20 34:6
48:14 50:10 53:12 46:6,7 53:11 51:13,14 55:14
13:25 39:6,18 35:16 37:14 theory 35:19,20
45:14 treat 33:24 understanding verdict 43:24 26:9,12,15,20
tremendous 43:21 44:9 26:21 30:10
41:4 trial 4:17,20 5:9 23:21 view 8:11 11:9 34:4 42:22
7:11 9:22 13:2 undisputed 3:12 20:20 21:10,10 50:12
14:2 37:16,20 41:11 United 1:1,15 vigorous 21:24 34:11 52:2
16:18,19 41:12,15,19 unknown 23:5 violate 37:23 Wiggins 53:8
42:6,7,14,23 unnecessary 38:2 55:6
44:6 10:25 violation 6:5 Williams 27:8
18:1,11 tribunal 11:10 unreasonable 11:23 27:2 27:10 53:8
22:24 Trotter 12:24 6:23 7:7,15 48:4 win 29:19 32:14
34:25 13:3,5 31:1 8:14 9:14 violent 41:14,14 wins 29:17
43:6,16 40:2,13,19,20 14:25 16:21,25 41:21 43:8 32:21 33:13
46:16 41:11,15,23 17:1,8,14,19 vitiated 48:22 wise 10:9 42:9
49:4,19 42:19 17:23 18:9 withhold 45:16
50:1,6,7 trouble 33:7 19:7,25 21:2 W witnesses 39:19
53:3 true 27:8 43:4 22:23 24:17,23 want 9:20 19:21 39:23 44:6,15
try 28:11 25:5 28:1,9 24:15 25:24 44:20
28:19 32:23 31:10 32:10,23 49:24 50:19 Wood 1:3 3:4,10
13:9 turns 19:18 35:2 37:6,9,15 43:18 word 54:22
15:3 twelve 52:25 37:18,22 38:6 Washington words 20:1
40:17 two 5:24 7:5 8:8 38:10,25 48:5 1:11,18 work 21:11,19
29:3 22:1 23:24 51:8 52:20,20 way 8:12 16:17 28:12 30:8
51:16 28:3 30:13 54:11,21 20:2 28:10,12 32:24 35:18,20
48:8,18,20,21 15:1 18:19 33:10 35:16,17 47:9,18,18
26:7 type 7:24 28:11 5:21 36:9,10 47:18 46:22
49:23 Typically 26:12 36:12 wear 18:8 world 32:14
51:9,12 use 22:16 28:7 Wednesday worth 10:1
U 32:7 33:14 1:12 wouldn't 16:24
ultimate 44:3 50:9,12 54:17 well-presented write 31:1 34:21
understand 12:9 v 1:5 3:4 27:9 6:25 51:19 4:24 5:10 15:7
48:1 1281 12:3 3 2:4
140 39:17 364 44:19
39:11 398 44:19
6:1,3,6,11,23 4 1:12 29:4
22:17,20 56 10:13,16 11:1
23:11 24:11 56a 10:17,19
1:5 3:4 25:16 26:9,10 57 11:2
27:23 57a 10:13,17
11:15
5:23 6:1,1,11 58 51:22
30:7,10
11:23 59 3:19
31:8
15:2
16:10,10 6
63 51:22
36:7
20:16 64 3:19
37:5,7
21:11,11
41:12 7
22:3,17
46:6,21
25:17 7 47:2
71 51:22
49:1
27:1,4,8 72 41:12
51:18,24
73 41:12
52:2,3,7
746 44:18
53:1,10
76 51:22
54:7,8
30:10
8
32:7
1:12 8 47:3
33:16
6:17 82 51:22
34:5
6:17
35:12
41:6 9
37:24
51:2 90 21:21 26:7
45:21
47:12 51:22
46:19
38:8 94 51:22
45:12 96 49:22
48:8,12
50:21 97 51:23
51:21,23
5:24 99 26:7
2:6
53:2,14
44:13
54:6,25
40:24
22:4
40:1,9
51:23
1:16 3:2 3
55:17
