IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
GLEN SCOTT MILNER, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-1163
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, December 1, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:01 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DAVID S. MANN, Seattle, Washington; on behalf of
Petitioner.
ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DAVID S. MANN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 23
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID S. MANN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:01 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 09-1163, Milner v. The
Department of the Navy.
Mr. Mann.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID S. MANN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MANN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
There are four points I would like to make
this morning. First, the plain language of Exemption 2
dictates an extremely narrow category of materials,
those related solely to internal personnel policies and
rules.
Second, even if you look beyond the plain
language and look to the legislative history, the
legislative history is focused, and the additional
legislative history from the House is focused, only on
law enforcement or investigatory materials, items that
were covered through the 1986 amendments to FOIA, making
any additional judicial High 2 unnecessary.
The third point: Because of FOIA's purpose,
if you find that the language, the plain language, is
not clear or if you find that the legislative history
isn't sufficient, then the focus must be on an
interpretation that supports disclosure, not secrecy.
And finally, Congress, in enacting FOIA,
conducted the balancing. In reserve for it, itself, the
authority to add to or expand FOIA through Exemption 3.
It did not leave agency discretion available for the
agencies to decide what documents they can provide or
not.
Moving into our first argument, the plain
language. At issue is a very short sentence related
solely to internal personnel rules and procedures -
rules and practices. Congress chose to use the words
"related solely" on purpose. That's an extremely narrow
view. Now, we understand if you look at the words in
isolation, perhaps you could see that there is some
conflict between them. "Related" could be broad;
"solely" is extremely narrow. But when read together,
as they should be in this statute, "related solely" is
an extremely narrow class of documents.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could I ask you this? The
D.C. Circuit's decision in Crooker has been the leading
decision in this -- on this issue for nearly 30 years,
and there has been a great deal of reliance on it,
certainly by the lower courts in general, and perhaps
also by Congress and by the executive branch. Do you
think there's anything to be said for deference to that
decision based on the fact that it has been -- there has
been reliance on it to such a great degree for such a
period of time?
MR. MANN: No, Your Honor. When Crooker
came down, the court was faced with an extremely -- a
circumstance dealing with these FBI or ATF search and
seizure manuals, and the court adopted and created the
High 2 exemption. But, again, we believe in 1986
Congress dealt with that expressly, explicitly, and took
the exact same language and inserted into a stand-alone
exemption, Exemption 7(A), making Crooker no longer
needed or necessary. In the past, the Court -
JUSTICE ALITO: I ask -- I ask the question
because the world has changed in a lot of ways since
1981, and one is that there is now, I think, much
greater concern about the disclosure of information that
has perhaps profound security implications. That was
not as much of a concern in -- in 1981.
If you think about, for example, suppose
there's a Federal building with a hallway that is
accessible only to somebody who has a code key. Would
that be -- is that -- does that have to be disclosed
under FOIA? Or architectural plans for a Federal
building that would disclose the size of the bomb that
would be necessary to bring the building down or bring
part of the building down; is there any FOIA exemption
that covers things like that?
MR. MANN: Well, Your Honor, there could be
a variety of FOIA exemptions -- it could fit under 7
depending on whether or not it's law enforcement
related. For example, if it's FBI instructions on
guarding a facility or guarding individuals, perhaps
that would be law enforcement. And if it's protecting
individuals within that building, under 7(F). Or it
could be something addressed specifically through
Exemption 3.
And coming to your original -- the original
part of your question, that times have changed, we
recognize that; and Congress recognized certainly that
times could and would change when it adopted it, and
that's why we believe Congress kept for itself
Exemption 3.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even though -
JUSTICE BREYER: 7 and 3 -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even though you -- you
said that there is now 7, Exemption 7, the amendment to
that, so you don't need 2 -
MR. MANN: You -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Still, as far as I know,
every court of appeals that has weighed in has accepted
Crooker. And I was a little puzzled why you were so
intent on rejecting so-called High 2, because after all,
in this very case, Judge Fletcher, dissenting -- it's
true -- but he said he accepts Crooker, he accepts High
2, and he still thinks you win. So you don't need to
reject Crooker to prevail.
MR. MANN: We don't need to reject -- under
Judge Fletcher's viewpoint, we did not need to reject
High 2 to prevail. But, again, he was the dissent. But
more importantly, Crooker -- again, we think this
language -- this case rises and falls on the plain
language of the statute, and Crooker was an expansion of
that, and we need to accept that Crooker was an
expansion of that. And Congress accepted that it was an
expansion when they came up with 7(E).
JUSTICE BREYER: Why does that show that? I
mean, why doesn't it show acceptance of Crooker?
MR. MANN: Well, I think -
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, if that -- Crooker
was -- was interpreting section 2 -
MR. MANN: I think -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- that was the
interpretation. Everyone had followed it, every court.
Nobody disagreed. All your four arguments Judge Edwards
went into thoroughly. Everyone but Judge Wilkey
approved it. And so Congress reads that, and they make
it specific in 7, but they say nothing about 2.
MR. MANN: I think there are three points to
look at on that. First of all, Congress originally did
look at amending section 2 -- Exemption 2, at the same
time they looked at amending Exemption 7. They chose
not to. Now, we don't -- we can't read everything into
that, but they chose not to. They made 7 specifically,
and 7 covered all of the language that we would be
looking for. So really, if you're still reading
Exemption 2 to include a High 2, then 7(E) becomes
superfluous.
And then a final point and I think a very
important point -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you had a different
Congress. I mean, the Congress that passed the law is
not necessarily the same Congress that -- that failed to
amend the law. Are we to consider laws to be in effect
only for so long as the Congress that passed them is
sitting, and then the failure to make any changes in
light of judicial decisions by later Congresses
effectively amends the law?
MR. MANN: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's an extraordinary
proposition.
MR. MANN: No, that's not the proposition
I'm making. The proposition I'm making is that when the
1986 -- '84 through '86 took place, and they looked at
this and they saw the issue with Jordan and they saw the
issue with Crooker, their decision was to consolidate
that exemption, what had been called "High 2," into
7(A).
JUSTICE BREYER: How do you know? What we
have is 7(E) in front of us; 7(E) says we want to be
sure something like Crooker's interpretation of 2
applies with law enforcement. It's simply a case -- so
they apply it with law enforcement. Absolutely now it's
guaranteed. Crooker is not guaranteed because it could
be overturned. You never know what will happen.
But what in that suggests they don't want
Crooker to apply to the Fed for example, or to the Navy,
or to -- which is here storing -- it's storing
explosives. Why would -- I mean, I can't get anything
one way or the other from the fact they passed 7.
MR. MANN: Well, I should -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why should I get one rather
than the other? For every argument you make, I can see
an argument the other side -- that they make.
MR. MANN: Well, another point that I would
like to make -
JUSTICE BREYER: What's your answer to that?
It was a question, really.
(Laughter.)
MR. MANN: Well, my answer is, is you are
correct that they did not read -- they did not
specifically state what they were doing or why. So all
we can do is look at what they did in its totality.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there was a proposal
to amend 2 -
MR. MANN: There had been an original -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And there was a
conscious decision by Congress not to do 2 to conform to
Crooker more generally, but to only pass 7. So there
has to be a meaning to the decision to limit the
amendment.
MR. MANN: I -- I would believe that they -
backing up to Crooker, if you look at the arguments in
Crooker and you look at I believe every point in
Crooker, where they discuss either the legislative
history or they discuss other case law analysis leading
to High 2, it was focused on these investigative
materials: examiner's materials, manuals, manuals that
we didn't want the regulator to have an opportunity to
have. And that's all now captured in 7(E).
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you interpreting -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Mann, do you assume
that there's always a reason for Congress's not passing
a law? I mean, it's hard enough to figure out their
reason for passing a law -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- but there could be an
infinitude of reasons why a law is not passed.
MR. MANN: I accept that, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know of any case in
which the failure of Congress to amend a law in order to
overrule a court decision other than a decision of this
Court has been held to be an implicit approval of that
decision? Do we have a single case where we've said,
oh, there was a line of court of appeals cases, and
since Congress failed to amend the statute to take
account of those court of appeals cases, Congress must
have approved them. Do we have any case like that?
MR. MANN: No, we don't, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know of any.
MR. MANN: Your Honor, but I would like to
make one additional point on this. What -- by doing
what Congress did in 1986 -- and, again, they're not
telling us this, but we can look at the statute -- what
they've done is preserve once again that clear, distinct
line between the exemptions. Exemption 2 on its plain
-- now Exemption 2 under its plain language is for use
related solely to internal personnel matters. That's an
isolated exemption. We don't need to go back to it to
look abroad and start looking for other exceptions. We
have Exemption 7(E) now to handle that. So there's a
clear, sharp dividing line. And as this Court said in
Rose, actually quoting Vaughn, that we needed that sharp
dividing line to let agencies know -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, in Rose we
talked about a legitimate public purpose in seeking
information. I tie my question to Justice Alito's,
which is at what point does -- is it legitimate for the
public to seek information, internal information,
relating to the rules and practices of personnel? Can
the public seek information that places the community at
a severe security risk? Is it possible for us to say
that that kind of information, given our line of
reasoning in Rose, could not be legitimate public
information?
MR. MANN: But it does not have to be using
the Exemption 2, as it's stated, for -- for the internal
personnel policies. There are other reasons and ways
that some materials that might create a security risk
can be protected.
Congress has -- there's over 150 -- I
believe the number currently is 153 statutes that
they've enacted under section 3, using section 3. That
includes as recently as last -- last year, when the
Department of Defense v. ACLU case came before you.
Congress stepped -- that was dealing with the Abu Ghraib
photos. Congress stepped in and passed an amendment to
the Securities Act to exempt those documents
specifically from release, in order to protect. And
that was using the proper authority. It didn't require
an agency to go back and rely on an "Expand 2,"
Exemption 2.
And that's the danger of the expansion we're
looking at, is it allows Exemption 2 to be used for an
open-ended -- any time an agency feels it may be
appropriate that it might not want to release something,
it can rely on Exemption 2. That was never the intent.
Congress tried from the beginning to preserve for itself
that discretion and that authority and to remove the
discretion.
As we point out -- as we've set out for you
in our briefs, if you look at the legislative history,
many of the agencies and Department of Justice that came
before Congress asked for that discretion, and Congress
did not give it to them. They reserved, and, instead,
we have Exemption 3.
So what we're saying is that you do not need
to -- there may be reasons that you want to take high
security information and have it isolated from the
public's review, but it's not through using an exemption
that was really designed for minor internal matters.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Of course, if that's -- if
that's the outcome of this case and if you prevail, that
would mean that more things will be classified and
withdrawn wholly from scrutiny; whereas, if other
exemptions are used, they can be shared to a greater
extent. So really what you're arguing for is for
withholding more information from more people.
MR. MANN: I don't think I am, Your Honor,
because I believe that, through the Exemption 3, they
can't limit it to. For example, in this case if there
was a need for Congress to adopt a specific protection
for these maps, it could.
The problem that we have here in this case,
again, is these maps at this base have been given out.
And, again, it's a map. It's a map showing the range,
the size of an explosion, and its effect on the
surrounding community. That map has been given out from
this base to some people, and some of those people they
gave it to actually gave it to the newspaper. It's been
not given out to others, including my client. Other
bases nearby, our Bangor Trident Submarine Base, gave
out the map upon request.
If this map that we're looking at is that
secure, then perhaps it should be that secure and
protected across the board. But that's not what we
have. We have -- instead, we have an individual within
an agency making a decision to withhold a certain
document from some people and not others, and when they
give it out to the others, they have no control over
what those people do with that map. And that's not a
correct use of the Exemption 2.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why do you want to
know? How wide the corridors are in some Federal
buildings, and terrorists could use that to bad purpose,
but we want to give it to the firemen because they'll
use it for a good purpose. We want the policemen to
know, we want different civic groups sometimes to know,
but we want to keep a limitation. We want it
restricted, restricted to minimize the chance it will
get into the wrong hands. I mean, I don't see anything
illogical about that. What's -- what's illogical about
that?
MR. MANN: But it shouldn't be through
Exemption 2 because it's not --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why?
MR. MANN: It's not an internal -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's a different
argument.
MR. MANN: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, your four arguments
seem to me to be the same arguments that Judge Edwards
and the D.C. Circuit considered, and they are excellent
arguments, and there are arguments on both sides, and
then they considered it and came to a conclusion. But
this is a different argument you're making here, and I
was addressing that.
MR. MANN: It's a different argument in the
sense that what Judge Edwards was looking at and the
Crooker decision was looking at was a specific group of
documents, these manuals of policy and procedure. And,
again, we believe that that was addressed through the
7(E) in 1986.
So we're back now to: Should there still be
a High 2 category? Is that how we want to read this -
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, it's only addressed
for law enforcement. It's -- there are many
dangerous or -- for example, this isn't law enforcement;
this is munitions. The Navy thinks, rightly or wrongly,
I guess you can -- that they don't want these maps
circulated because they think it would make it easier to
blow up the munitions. They want the firemen to have
them, they want the civil defense workers to have them,
but they don't want people who might blow them up to
have them.
MR. MANN: Well -
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, that's -- that's their
reasoning. Now, that isn't addressed, it seems to me,
in 7, because 7 deals with law enforcement.
MR. MANN: I would agree that this, perhaps,
is not addressed in 7. 7 was -- was argued before the
Ninth Circuit, but not answered on whether or not these
fit under 7. But, again, it should not come back to the
use of Exemption 2. Perhaps another exemption -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: As I -- as I read the
D.C. Circuit decision, you -- you are assuming or you're
suggesting that the D.C. Circuit saw a gap that Congress
hadn't provided for, and it filled that gap. And now
the add-on that the D.C. Circuit made is no longer
necessary, so we lop it off. But the judges on that en
banc court thought that they were interpreting the
statute going through all of the steps that you
outlined. Language is rarely so plain that there's no
room for a different interpretation.
And then Judge Edwards looked to the
legislative history to see how that might inform the
decision, but -- but really, to suggest that Crooker was
just sort of a stopgap until Congress amended the
statute I think is not fair to that decision.
MR. MANN: Your Honor, the issue here is not
so much Crooker as it is what the Ninth Circuit has done
to, we believe, expand Crooker, because you're correct.
I mean, obviously, the Crooker decision was a
well-written, long, and very detailed decision, both the
en banc as well as the dissents, but -- the dissent.
But even there, they were looking at that
same legislative history, and it's the same legislative
history that this Court looked at in Rose, and there is
a limit. They didn't say that it needed to reach all
the way out to cover anything as broad as a category of
what the Navy's proceeding with here. They looked at
manuals of procedure, the disclosure of which would
enable the regulated community to circumvent those
agency regulations. Again, you addressed that as
arguably dicta, but that's the statement you had made in
Rose, that it was by the regulated to circumvent
regulations.
The documents we have, for example, in this
case are not. The regulated entity under the
Operating-5 manual is the Navy. It's how the Navy
stores and moves its munition around. So even under a
reading of -- of Crooker, what Crooker was looking at,
looking at the House report, taking the House report on
its face, taking the testimony before Congress that was
on its face -- again, that was still dealing with these
operating rules and guidelines for government
investigators or examiners, but not -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Mann, I thought you
disagreed with the premise of Justice Ginsburg's
question; that is, that you assert that the language
related solely to the internal personnel rules and
practices of an agency is quite clear.
MR. MANN: I do.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought maybe you were
abandoning that.
MR. MANN: No, no. I mean, I -- but what I
was saying was that we do believe it was quite clear.
But if -- even if you went beyond, which obviously they
did in Crooker, and obviously you could argue from the
House report -- even if you go beyond, it's still a
limited category that does not reach so broad as what
the Ninth Circuit has opened up here, and as what the
Navy is arguing before you now, which is even broader
than what the Ninth Circuit reached.
JUSTICE BREYER: How is it -- how is it
broader? I -- I looked for the words. I just missed
them, and you can point them out.
When I read about the circumvention, what
Crooker says is: "We hold that since the document for
which disclosure is sought meets the test of
'predominant internality,' and since its disclosure
significantly risks circumvention of federal statutes or
regulations," it is exempt.
It didn't say anything about circumvention
because there is a regulated entity and it is that
regulated entity that will circumvent. It just spoke of
circumvention, as far as I saw. But maybe there's
another place where it talks about regulated entity. Is
there?
MR. MANN: Well, I believe it's addressed in
the decision during the context leading up to the
decision, but it is addressed by this Court in Rose -
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, that's -- but that -
if we're looking at Crooker, I just read the words
"would there be circumvention" -
MR. MANN: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and it seemed to me, in
this case, the Navy has plans and they use those plans
to store munitions safely, and the risk that they worry
about is someone will get ahold of the plans and use the
positions of those munitions in order to make them
unsafe, for example, blowing them up. So that seemed
like a very serious circumvention of what the regulation
was there for.
MR. MANN: But not by the regulator -
JUSTICE BREYER: That's correct, and I
didn't find anything in Crooker that said -- and I don't
know why you'd have such a theory. I don't know what
the point of the theory would be, that you would care
whether blowing up took place by somebody who
technically was regulated by the Navy or blowing up took
place by some other person, whom they're worried about.
MR. MANN: Because the basis -- it's -- the
basis for that is, again, this Court's language in Rose,
where it looked at -- again, we're going back to a very
few words in the House report, and the House report is
looking at these guidelines and manuals of procedure for
government investigators or examiners.
This Court took that language and looked at
it and pointed to -- well, and it's a logical extension,
that if we're looking at it from these investigators or
examiners, what we're concerned about is people being
investigated or examined. So we don't see that that
expands here.
And, again, it's coming back to the basis of
this material shouldn't be under (i)(2). I mean, we can
discuss and debate the merits of the safety of these
maps. This is, again, a map. It's not the operating
guidelines, the Operating-5 manual. That's not what was
requested or it's not what's before you, but what's
before you is the map, the map which shows that the
largest target, no surprise, is the loading dock. The
loading dock -- we have the materials in the joint
appendix from the -- the base information, proudly
discussing that loading dock and how visible a signal
that loading dock is. There are too many -
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you have any reason to -
just out of curiosity, do you have any reason to believe
that the current version of the ESQD map is different
from the one that was published in the newspaper
previously?
MR. MANN: We do not know, Your Honor.
There are -- there are identified, I believe it was 14,
but I may be incorrect, separate maps in the Vaughn
index. We know, if you read -- the portions that we
have from the Operating-5 manual say they can move
munitions around as long as they stay within the
confines of the ESQD map, but it appears the map can be
amended. And, again, that's the -- that's the
prevailing question here, is we're talking about public
waters, private land around the base, and whether or not
that land stays secure. That's the great significant
public interest here, is we have a city within a mile
and a half of this base and of this very visible loading
dock that can be seen from everywhere. On the
waterfront restaurants in town, this loading dock stands
out. So whether that map changes over time would be
important to know.
If there are no further questions, I'd like
to reserve a couple minutes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Yang.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY A. YANG
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. YANG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Petitioner has asked this Court to disrupt
30 years of FOIA practice by rejecting an interpretation
of Exemption 2 that has prevailed and has provided a
workable standard for agencies and the courts since the
D.C. Circuit's en banc decision in Crooker.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me what
the textual basing for Crooker's "predominantly
internal" and "circumvention of agency regulation"
requirements is? Where in the text are those words, and
how do you create them except through sort of judicial
crafting?
MR. YANG: Well, I think the -- as our brief
explained, there are three basic elements to Exemption
2. The first is the internal element, and we believe
that means that the records at issue must be properly
maintained within an agency and not for general release.
And -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The problem with that in
this case is that it's a mixed document. It is
predominantly for internal use, but not exclusively.
MR. YANG: Well, I think -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how do you square
that with the words "related solely to internal"?
MR. YANG: Right. If I could just finish
the internality and then talk about how it relates
solely -- relates to that, I think that would be
probably easiest. The internal -- and when a document
is properly held within an agency as internal reflects
the FOIA balance that's at issue throughout the
exemptions. It involves the balance between the public
interest in knowing information about the government and
the need for the government to maintain certain things
in confidence. And in this context, Rose addressed two
other contexts. Rose explained that when there is no
legitimate public interest, things may be properly
internal. There's simply no reason to disclose it.
In -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the case summaries
there were internal solely. They were created only for
purposes of the agency's honor code review or discipline
review.
MR. YANG: Well, if it was -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And yet we ordered it
disclosed. We created an exception to the -
MR. YANG: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- plain language of the
rule, it seems to me.
MR. YANG: I don't believe this Court
created an exception to the statute. I think what the
Court did was construe the statute. And although it is
not clear from the text of Rose exactly the textual
foundation for that decision, I think it is best read as
turning on the internality. And understanding what is
properly internal under Exemption 2 must be understood
in light of what FOIA is doing and what the legislative
history suggests for the exemption. And so what we -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Oh, I agree.
MR. YANG: This case -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But I think the
distinction it made was that it's only internal rules
and practices of the agency, a personnel agency, if the
public has no legitimate interest in it.
MR. YANG: I think it said that that's the
case where there's no countervailing interest on the
other side. At least where there's no risk of
circumvention, is what the Court was saying. What we
have here is a different FOIA balance. What we have
here is something strong on the government interest
side. There are certain things that just cannot be
disclosed to the public and have the government function
well. This is one of these. This would be the
location, type, amount of munitions stored on a Naval
facility. Location -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Yang, but the
information about location I thought was disclosed,
where these explosives were stored.
MR. YANG: There are -- there is -- for
instance, the appendix includes a map of buildings. It
doesn't explain where munitions are stored, the type of
munition -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But we know they're in
the building. We may not know the type of munition.
MR. YANG: Maybe not in every building.
What you know is that there are buildings, there are
sites, but you don't know which ones, how much, the
types of munitions. And what we're talking about is
more than a map. What we're talking about is more
generally the ESQD information in the disclosed records,
which includes -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And I thought that that
information was given out for the Bangor facility.
MR. YANG: There appears to have been a
release -- and the record does not provide us detail as
to why -- before 9/11 by the Bangor facility of some
arcs. Now, it's important to know that arc maps have
different levels of importance. For instance, you might
have an arc map around a bomb squad on a base, because
bomb squads need to maintain a small amount of
munitions, but that arc isn't particularly sensitive.
So arc maps might be released in certain contexts, and
the Navy here actually does conduct a case-by-case
balancing to see whether or not it would be appropriate
to release this information.
Here, what we do know is that the Navy
looked at the arc maps here, which are highly sensitive
maps, as well as the associated ESQD information, and
determined that releasing this information would provide
a road map to those with bad intent to circumvent the
very safety procedures that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Have you compared the two
situations, in Seattle and in -- and in Bangor? What -
because -
MR. YANG: Our brief briefly addresses this.
I believe it's footnote on page -- footnote 5 on page 8.
And what we can say from the record is that the Navy
looked at the -- the material here, explained that
Bangor is a single weapons facility, involves a much
more simplistic storage and safety security problem than
the Naval Magazine Indian Island. And also, I would -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why? If these -- if
these maps are so sensitive as you suggested, why
weren't they classified?
MR. YANG: Well, it's difficult to classify
when you need to share in limited circumstances with
local responders. The Navy here has shared -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, I don't
understand that. It's different to classify when?
MR. YANG: When you classify a document, it
restricts access to people with a Federal need to know,
people who have been adjudicated as eligible to receive
classification, receive the proper training. The Navy
in this instance needs to share limited arc information
with the local fire department and the police department
to make plans for in the event of an emergency. And
that was shared in confidence with these local force
responders and was unfortunately disclosed without our
authorization.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, surely, you
classify documents that are shared outside the Federal
Government?
MR. YANG: That is true in certain
circumstances, but there are other -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could you
classify these maps after -- I mean, assume that you
don't prevail, could you then classify these documents,
preventing their release before they're released?
MR. YANG: Well, if the Court were to
provide us with the opportunity, I think the Navy could
consider that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I mean, isn't it
the case when a government agency has to go through its
records in response to a FOIA request and comes upon
records that would otherwise be disclosable, they can at
that point say we're going to classify this so we don't
have to disclose it.
MR. YANG: The relevant executive order that
governs classification does allow classification of
materials which have been disseminated beyond the
government. But there are certain thresholds that have
to be met. I'm not an original classifying authority,
so I would not be in a position to say whether these
types of things could be classified in this instance.
It's at least theoretically possible.
But I -- what I want to underscore is that
the reason that these materials are not classified in
this instance is because it is important to share with
the local fire department. Now, the local fire
department -
JUSTICE ALITO: There's -- there's a
document on the FBI Web site called "Security Clearance
Process for State and Local Law Enforcement," which
seems to address exactly the situation in which there's
a need to -- it says: "It is the policy of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation to share with law enforcement
personnel pertinent information regarding terrorism."
And it provides a procedure for sharing that classified
information.
MR. YANG: It is -- I don't mean to suggest
that only Federal Government employees can have
classification. You can -- you have contractors. There
are instances where you can classify material and share
it with nonfederal entities which have been given
appropriate clearances -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems to me
you're asking us to do your job. You've got to go
through these documents and say -- you're telling us how
sensitive these are, and, therefore, it would harm the
national interest if they had to be disclosed.
MR. YANG: I don't -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If that's true, you
can classify them and -
MR. YANG: I don't think -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- instead of coming
to us and saying you should torture the language in FOIA
to allow us to determine that this is sensitive to the
national interest and therefore shouldn't be disclosed.
MR. YANG: I don't believe that we are
asking the Court to torture the language of FOIA. We
think that we have a fair reading, by no means an
unambiguous reading of the statute, but a fair reading
of the statute, and it's a reading that has prevailed
for almost 30 years now. And then quite beyond -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So can we talk about that
reading, Mr. Yang? Let's talk about the meaning of the
statute.
MR. YANG: Sure.
JUSTICE KAGAN: The key word is -- the key
term is "personnel rules and practices." If I said to
you what's a personnel file, what would you say?
MR. YANG: Well, it depends on context. You
may be referring to Exemption 6.
JUSTICE KAGAN: It could be referring to
Exemption 6, or it could be referring to just generally,
just in a conversation? Your personnel file -- what
does it mean?
MR. YANG: Well, in the context of Exemption
6, I think it refers to files pertaining to personnel.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Can you think of another
context in which it means something other than that?
MR. YANG: I think the term -- the phrase
"personnel file" itself is normally referred -- normally
used to refer to personnel, but what-
JUSTICE KAGAN: It's a kind of H.R. file,
right?
MR. YANG: That's generally true, but -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So why should there be any
difference if you look at the term "personnel files and
practices," that these are H.R. files and practices?
MR. YANG: Well, it's certainly one reading.
We think that personnel rules and practices of an agency
can fairly encompass instructions that you provide to
personnel. For instance, if you were to instruct
personnel that they are to appear at work at 9:00 and
leave at 5:00, or they are to perform a certain number
of duties, 10 cases per day, or you need to process
these cases in a certain manner -- all of those I think
would be fairly characterized as personnel rules and
practices of an agency, and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: All the rules of an agency
would -- would be sucked in, wouldn't it?
MR. YANG: Well, no, I think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, all the rules the
agency promulgates are supposed to be enforced by the
personnel of the agency.
MR. YANG: I should think so.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They become personnel rules
and practices.
MR. YANG: The focus on personnel in the
statute helps to distinguish between rules and practices
which govern personnel, and rules and practices which
also are there to govern the public in its interactions
with the agency. And this goes back to the question
that we initially started on. "Relates solely" -- when
you're related solely to the internal personnel rules
and practices of the agency, it -- it extends just
beyond just the rules and practices of themselves, but
it makes sure that the focus -- solely -- is still on
personnel.
So there are things -- for instance, if the
rule is that you need to file a FOIA request in a
certain way, and the agency instructs personnel to
process it in a certain way, those rules also would
affect the public. The public would need to comply. If
there is a dual purpose, a dual function of the rule or
practice, it would not relate solely to the internal
personnel rules.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that begs, I
think, Justice Scalia's question. One could argue that
everything that the agency develops except rules telling
the public how to come to the agency with a complaint,
et cetera -- virtually everything will govern either the
internal personnel practices or the agency's practices
vis-à-vis the public.
MR. YANG: But not everything that the
agency does will relate solely or exclusively to govern
the internal personnel -- the rules and practices for
personnel. When there is a dual function, that is, it
both instructs personnel how to do their duties and it's
also something that the public must take into account -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if the -- if the
agency has a rule that says put explosive A in building
1 and put explosive B in building 2, that's hard for me
to explain that it's just a personnel rule, other than,
as Justice Scalia says, everything -- all functions have
to be undertaken by humans.
MR. YANG: Well, I -- I don't know that I
would agree with that. I think the personnel rules and
practices that are at issue here are a complex set of
rules that are based on types of munitions, the -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what about my
hypothetical? Why -- why is that person -- primarily or
solely personnel rule?
MR. YANG: Because it is a rule that
pertains to personnel. It is a rule that governs the
personnel's discharge of their duties. And if the -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that goes back to the
point that -- I forgot about a computer age, but,
forgetting that, humans have to do most things now.
MR. YANG: That is true. Humans generally
-- and we still do, thank goodness, do things. But the
focus of the exemption in context -- the exemption
applies to matters that relate solely to the internal
personnel rules and practices of an agency. Personnel
helps to focus the inquiry on the rules, and, again,
only relating solely, on rules that govern agency
personnel, as opposed to rules that might govern those
personnel and govern the public's interaction with the
agency. That's the key -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose the Office of
Personnel Management has a pretty broad charter, then,
on your theory of what the adjective means. OPM must be
a very powerful agency.
(Laughter.)
MR. YANG: Well, I -- it certainly is.
(Laughter.)
MR. YANG: The -- but I think what we're
saying is that personnel can have different meanings in
different contexts.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can we go back to the --
I mean, the origin of the Exemption 2? I thought there
was a concern in Congress that, under the APA, section 3
was shielding too much from the public, and so they
wanted to have a narrower category. Listening to you, I
really don't see how we have something that's narrower
-- narrower than the old section 3 of the APA. And if
you can give me an example, this is what the APA
shielded that would not be shielded under section 2,
maybe I would -
MR. YANG: Well, there were -- I can give
you a few examples from the legislative history, for
instance. One of the problems that Congress was
concerned with is that the old exemption, exemption in
section 3, had been construed to apply to internal
management, including things such as phone books, agency
phone books for personnel. That would no longer be
encompassed. Things like budgets that the agency
produces, that arguably would -- internal management,
that that would not be under the internal personnel
rules and practices of the agency.
And I think it's important to remember that
when Congress drafted this statute, it initially started
with internal personnel -- or, excuse me, internal
employment rules and practices and changed that to
personnel. In the report that effectuated that change,
the explanation and the only explanation was that that
change was similar -- made the exemption similar but
more tightly drawn than the APA's management exemption,
which at the time existed in another part of the
statute; it was a cross-reference.
When Congress then continued to revise the
statute, the House made very clear in the hearings, in
the House Report, and on the floor that its intent was
to cover these types of -- manuals and instructions to
agency personnel when doing so would risk the functions
that are at issue here. And when Congress in 1986
amended FOIA by adding -- or amending Exemption 7(E), it
ratified the existing rule. And it did so because -- it
ratified it and it had to -- it extended it in two
important ways.
Crooker left open the question or at least
made it vague as to whether prosecution guidelines would
be protected by Exemption 2. The reason that was
unclear is because the D.C. Circuit had previously
concluded in Jordan that Exemption 2 did not apply.
Crooker rejected all of Jordan's rationale, but then
someone enigmatically said, but we would reach the same
result. Justice Ginsburg's concurrence explained in
Crooker that this muddied the waters, and when Congress
revisited FOIA and Exemption 7(E), it specifically
provided an exemption for law enforcement investigations
and prosecutions. In doing so, it made clear that
whatever existed of Jordan was gone. It also did
something else -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought
that the amendment to Exemption 7 really cut the other
way. They amended Exemption 7; they didn't amend
Exemption 2.
MR. YANG: Well, they amended Exemption 7 -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To adopt more or
less Crooker, right?
MR. YANG: To adopt Crooker in certain
areas.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. Exactly, not
this one.
MR. YANG: Well, no, I think what it did is
it took Crooker as understood, but what it did is with
respect to law enforcement records -- and remember it's
only records compiled for law enforcement purposes that
would disclose techniques, procedures, or guidelines for
investigations or in prosecutions. In that context,
Congress lowered the bar. It provided more protection
for those law enforcement records than Crooker did.
This is part of what Congress was doing in
Exemption 7 more generally, and this Court's decision in
Reporters Committee discusses this. Before '86,
Exemption 7 applied where disclosure would cause much of
these harms, these enumerated harms. Congress changed
"would" through most of the sub-provisions of Exemption
7 to "could reasonably be expected to," and they did so
also in Exemption 7(E) where -- with respect to the
guidelines provision.
When guidelines for law enforcement
investigations or prosecutions could reasonably be
expected to circumvent the law, that's what the
exemption covers. In doing so, it's providing --
Congress decided to extend Crooker. It extended the
protections by lowering the bar in '86, and it also, as
we have discussed, did so to specifically address the
D.C. Circuit's decision in Jordan, or at least what
might have been left of that after Crooker.
We see that as simply building on the back
of Crooker, and it did so specifically in the -- the law
enforcement context, but it did so with the premise that
Crooker had properly understood Exemption 2. And it's
important to remember that law enforcement context in
the Exemption 7(E) will only apply in a certain subset
of instances. It has to be compiled for law enforcement
purposes; it has to be -- disclose techniques,
procedures, or guidelines for law enforcement
investigations or prosecutions -
JUSTICE BREYER: What happens -- I'm just
curious -- on -- if you classify -- suppose you have a
document, "in case of emergency, these are the
evacuation procedures" of a big Federal building. And
now you want to show that to the firemen, but you don't
want it to be in the newspaper. All right. And the
firemen don't have classifications, and they aren't
cleared.
MR. YANG: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: But I guess if -- in order
to see it, they'd have to be cleared.
MR. YANG: They would have -- right. Be -
JUSTICE BREYER: How long does it take,
approximately, roughly, to clear a fireman so that he
could, in fact, see the evacuation manual from the
Federal building?
MR. YANG: I don't know exactly -
JUSTICE BREYER: Can you give me a rough
idea?
MR. YANG: I'm -- this is going to -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Thank you.
MR. YANG: I'm going to speculate a little
bit on this -
JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you. Right.
MR. YANG: But -- and if I am wildly off,
we'll let the Court know. I think it's on the order of
6 months, but it could be longer.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: For what level of
classification? I gather the investigation of the
person is quite different depending upon what level you
want, if you want to give -
MR. YANG: I think that's for the basic
secret, but I would have to -- again, I don't have a
precise answer for the Court, and we could provide a
more fulsome answer after -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The lower things
below secret -
MR. YANG: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are those sufficient
classifications to prevent disclosure under FOIA?
MR. YANG: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is it,
sensitive?
MR. YANG: Confidential, I believe. But
yes. Yes. Anything -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And so, if you label
something confidential, you don't have to disclose it
under FOIA?
MR. YANG: Right. But classification is not
something that the executive can do, of course, just
willy-nilly. There are certain criteria that have to be
satisfied, and there are certain practical storage,
access requirements that come with classification.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think it's -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think it's practical
to classify all of the information that might have
security implications?
MR. YANG: I think it's difficult. And
certainly -
JUSTICE ALITO: Architectural designs -
MR. YANG: Yes. I don't -
JUSTICE ALITO: -- passwords.
MR. YANG: I don't think if we go that far,
it is practical. Plus, in many contexts, there won't
have -- there won't be national -- cognizable injury to
the national security, which is the touchstone of
classification. So there are things -- you know, there
are many types of information out there -- for instance,
internal procedures regarding computer security for
agencies -- that just would not normally be thought of
as something that's classified.
Agencies also provide guidance to personnel;
for instance, in screening Medicare claims that come in.
Medicare -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. You
wouldn't regard internal security procedures for
computer systems as confidential?
MR. YANG: Not classified as confidential.
In order to be classified, there has to be a
determination by the original classifying authority of
many things, but, among other things, it has to show
that disclosure of the information could reasonably be
expected to damage the national security.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you classify those
as internal procedural rules -- personnel rules? And
would you also classify architectural specifications as
internal personnel rules?
MR. YANG: It depends on context. I think
the computer security instructions to personnel, how you
access and what criteria you must build your computer
systems to be secure at -- I think that would be deemed
as internal rules and practices for -- of an agency.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What about architectural
specifications?
MR. YANG: It can. I mean, I think it's a
little misleading to talk about architectural
specifications or maps. Those are simply methods by
which you convey information. You could also write
things out longhand. It would take a lot longer, but
you could write out the same information longhand. So
long as it fits within the rubric of internal personnel
rules and practices of an agency -- that is, it is
providing guidance, it is providing rules and practice
for the agency's personnel to follow in conducting the
agency's function -- it could well be deemed to fall
within Exemption 2. Not everything would be, but
certain things can.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, basically, anything
that the agency uses to craft its internal employee
practices and rules gets swept up as private, as
internal?
MR. YANG: No. No, no, no.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If -- if --
MR. YANG: It certainly would be personnel
rules and practices of an agency to be properly deemed
internal. That's where you -- the circumvention prong
comes in, of Crooker, and we believe that in order to be
properly deemed internal, the disclosure would
significantly risk circumvention of the agency's
functions.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you are taking out
the records related to personnel and not making it a
condition of the disclosure. You're saying if any
document circumvents the agency's functioning, that's
exempted.
MR. YANG: I -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're not tying -
that's where I'm confused.
MR. YANG: I didn't mean -- if I gave that,
if I said so, I certainly didn't mean to give that
impression. There are certain -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, how does -
MR. YANG: There are two different -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do the documents
that the agency reviews to determine and craft its
internal rules and practices fall under the rubric of
being related to, solely related to, personnel practices
and rules?
If they were created separately, if they
were created for multiple purposes, if they were -
MR. YANG: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- used in different
circumstances besides the relationship of employees to
others -
MR. YANG: I -- to bring us to, maybe, this
case, to give an example, this case involves the ESQD
information for Indian Island. That information is a
personnel rule or practice of the agency, or is related
to it, because it tells the Navy's personnel how to
store, how to move, how to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The map doesn't. You
use the map to do the latter things.
MR. YANG: Well, I guess it's a question of
how you convey that information. If you said you can't
get within 1,000 feet of point X and wrote that out as
an instruction, that's one way to do it. The map is
another way to do it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you see -
MR. YANG: The map simply -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I'm cutting
you off because your light is on.
Do you see any difference between the
position you're taking and Crooker?
MR. YANG: No. We think that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You formulate your test
very differently than Crooker does. What are those
differences?
MR. YANG: I think it's essentially the
same, and let me tell you why. Crooker uses the
predominant internality test, right? And there's
essentially two things that the court is getting at
there. It says that that means that the agency function
at issue can have an impact beyond the agency. That was
kind of one -- one aspect of it.
And, two, the Court was concerned about not
having secret law; that is, things that the public would
have to know and use in interacting with the agency. We
think that that's essentially the same thing that we're
doing. And -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Yang, if -- if we assume
that a majority of this Court finds this statutory
interpretation untenable and that you lose, but that the
Court is also concerned about the government's reliance
interests here and about this set of documents that have
been exempted under Exemption 2 that would become
unexempt, is there anything that the Court can do about
that? Is there anything that the government would need
to -- to advance -- to deal with those reliance
interests?
MR. YANG: You're assuming that we lose the
case entirely.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I am assuming, yes. That's
just an assumption.
(Laughter.)
MR. YANG: All right. That's not an
assumption I like to deal with often, but -- well, I
think if the Court were to rule against the Government
on all respects, I think that that would leave us with
the option of returning to Congress. This Court, of
course, is free to opine on -
JUSTICE BREYER: If you couldn't go return
to Congress and you had to classify documents falling
into the category that you previously thought dealt with
in Crooker, how long would that take? How many
documents would you guess there were in the Federal
Government? Millions? Thousands?
MR. YANG: There's a very large number of
documents where disclosure would circumvent the very
agency functions at issue, not all of which, and perhaps
very many of which, would not be able to be classified
under Exemption -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And all of which you
already have to review to compile the Vaughn index and
to make sure there are not other exemptions that are
applicable, right? You don't just grab a bunch of files
and turn them over. You look at them before you release
them under FOIA.
MR. YANG: That's true. It's just that the
Exemption 2 serves a unique and important function.
JUSTICE BREYER: That wasn't my question.
My question did not concern those documents that were
requested. It concerns the category of documents that
might be requested -
MR. YANG: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- which is every document
that might be requested.
MR. YANG: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: And I wonder if it ranges
in the millions, tens of millions, hundreds of
thousands, 5,000, or if it -
MR. YANG: And it would be -- it would be a
very large number of documents, and it would not be
practical to take those case by case, and then of those
that might have some national security interest, go -
we -- there -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't have to go
through everything. You have to go through the material
that is requested, and you go through that material
already.
MR. YANG: We do. There is a very large
number of FOIA requests.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And it takes forever
to get the documents.
(Laughter.)
MR. YANG: The statute -- we are not usually
complying with the statute's 20-day -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. YANG: -- turnaround. That's correct.
The -- I think I ought to just note two more
things. Petitioner's reading of the legislative
history, I think, needs to be corrected in two respects.
The 1964 Senate report that Petitioner relies upon talks
about rules regarding parking, lunch hours, and sick
leave. That does not concern Exemption 2. That
provision is regarding what ultimately became section
552(a)(C)(2).
JUSTICE ALITO: Could I just nail down one
particular point? It is the view of -- you're
representing the Government, and it is the view of the
Government that classification is not a practicable
solution to the problem that's highlighted here.
MR. YANG: Correct, because not all the
documents here, even if there was time to review them,
would fall within -- excuse me -- not in this case, but
within the matter of Exemption 2, would not be able to
be classified. Exemption 2 addresses a special problem.
It addresses the problem of releasing documents where
the very release would frustrate the function of having
those documents in the agency -- for the agency.
And so there's no other exemption that does
that. And requiring Congress -- remember, this has been
the way this has worked for almost 30 years. There
would have to be a very large number of Exemption 3
statutes. Congress would have to go and enact them one
by one. It's not a feasible solution.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Mann, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID S. MANN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MANN: There are two points I'd like to
focus again on, coming back to, is the word "personnel"
matters. When this case came to me, my client told me
that he could not get these maps that he had gotten
previously because the Navy was classifying them as
personnel documents. What is my reaction as a lawyer?
What? What are you talking about? I can read the
language of this statute. It's talking about a narrow
exception, which is exactly what Congress set up. Nine
narrow exceptions. The one open-ended one is the one
that Congress kept for itself, Exemption 3.
If the Navy doesn't believe that these
documents can be or should be classified, but the Navy
doesn't want to release these documents for some reason,
then the Navy's recourse is to go to Congress as other
agencies have done and seek a special protection for
these documents. But it's not to distort the words
"personnel practices and rules" to expand to every
document that is used by personnel.
And that's precisely what the Navy is asking
for, on page 51 of their brief, and we responded to it
in our reply. They're looking for an exemption that
covers a wide range of information concerning internal
rules and practices where disclosure would risk
circumvention and where other FOIA exemptions are
unavailable. They're asking you to create for them what
they -- what Congress wouldn't give them in 1964 or '66,
broad discretion. And it doesn't belong. It certainly
doesn't belong under the very narrow Exemption 2.
If there are no other questions, I'm
complete.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 10:59 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
36:3 applies 9:12 35:18 B blowing 21:2,10,11
37:2,5,20 apply 9:13,17 36:24 B 34:23 board 15:6
45:2,22 38:5 40:7 back 12:4 13:11 bomb 5:25 27:13,14
47:9,10,14 appropriate 13:16 16:19 17:13 21:15 books 36:25 37:1
51:6,6 27:18 30:24 21:25 33:18 35:12 branch 4:25
45:6,11 approved 8:2 11:18 backing 10:18 7:20,23 9:9,22
40:25 balance 24:20,21 16:6,21 17:7 19:25
30:10 42:15 architectural 5:24 banc 17:21 18:10 41:10 48:13 49:7
50:19 42:22 43:23 44:5,8 23:21 49:12,15
38:17 argued 17:11 22:9 23:1,4 27:13 bring 6:1,1 46:7
38:17,19 argument 1:12 2:2,5 bases 15:2 19:21 36:1 52:19
17:8,11
9:24 16:4,11,13 basically 44:20 budgets 37:2
20:15,17
13:7 38:16 arguments 7:25 basis 21:13,14,25 building 5:21,25 6:1
assert 19:10 believe 5:9 6:17 bunch 49:2
23:13 assume 11:2 29:10 19:17 20:15 22:13 C
assumption 48:5,8 belong 52:19,20 care 21:9
23:20 43:7,9
13:19 30:1 43:17 19:20 29:24 31:18 13:5 14:8,16,19
18:19 19:12
20:23 24:10 circumstance 5:7 42:14 43:10 17:17 18:3 19:4 48:11
26:5 29:17 circumstances comes 29:18 45:4 36:12,22 37:7,16 courts 4:24 23:20
46:8,8 48:3 28:15 29:8 46:5 coming 6:13 21:25 37:21 38:9 39:7,9 Court's 21:14 39:10
51:1,19 circumvent 18:18 31:9 51:18 39:13,22 48:11,14 cover 18:15 37:19
18:21 20:11 27:24 Committee 39:11 51:8,11,25 52:2,6 covered 3:21 8:10
circumvention 20:3 14:23 18:18 Congresses 8:22 52:14
19:21 36:14 52:16 compiled 39:4 40:8 consider 8:19 29:15 create 12:24 24:1
49:9 circumvents 45:11 complaint 34:11 considered 16:8,10 52:17
27:16 29:7 civil 17:3 comply 34:4 construed 36:24 criteria 42:12 44:2
32:25 33:2 claims 43:10 complying 50:8 context 20:16 24:24 Crooker 4:21 5:5,12
38:22 40:7 class 4:19 computer 35:13 32:1,7,10 35:17 7:2,5,7,11,13,14
44:19 classification 28:22 43:6,14 44:1,2 39:6 40:4,6 43:25 7:18,20 9:6,14,17
29:23,23 30:21 concern 5:17,19 contexts 24:25 10:14,18,19,20
36:5 42:21 43:4 50:22 concerned 21:22 continued 37:16 19:2,2,19 20:4,19
52:19 classifications 36:23 47:12,20 contractors 30:21 21:7 23:21 38:1,6
43:8,15,16 48:22 conclusion 16:10 correct 10:6 15:12 48:16
39:13 classify 28:14,18,19 condition 45:10 50:10,24 23:23
29:4,9,16 classifying 30:1 29:1 countervailing 26:5 current 22:14
31:6,9 38:15 43:17 51:21 confidential 42:5,8 couple 23:10 currently 13:2
41:14,22 clear 3:25 11:25 43:14,15 course 14:7 42:11 cut 38:16
42:3,7 43:12 12:7 19:12,17 confines 22:23 48:12 cutting 46:22
49:23 50:4,9 25:17 37:17 38:12 conflict 4:16 court 1:1,12 3:10 5:6
52:23 40:25 conform 10:13 5:8,13 7:1,24 D
18:6 cleared 40:19,22 5:10 6:15,17 7:15 20:17 21:19 23:16 danger 13:13
38:4 client 15:1 51:19 8:2,5,17,17,18,20 23:17 25:14,16 dangerous 16:23
cognizable 43:2 11:23 13:1,6,7,18 41:12,20 47:8,12 3:7 51:15
differently 47:3 51:4,6,22 52:4,5,8 30:12,15 38:11 14:11 24:21 49:1
10:13,15 11:12 42:8 35:11 enumerated 39:13 7:16 13:13
15:8 disclosed 5:23 25:10 D.C 1:8,18 4:21 ESQ 1:17 2:3,6,9 expected 39:15,20
17:16 18:2,4 26:11,16 27:4 29:2 16:8 17:16,17,19 ESQD 22:14,23 43:20
20:16,17 31:4,12 23:21 38:4 39:25 27:4,22 46:8 explain 26:20 34:24
25:18 39:10 disclosure 4:2 5:17 essentially 47:5,8 explained 24:4,25
18:17 20:5,6 39:12 E 47:15 28:7 38:8
discretion 4:6 13:19 easiest 24:18 41:1 explicitly 5:10
13:5,23 28:24 discusses 39:11 effectuated 37:10 examined 21:23 expressly 5:10
30:8,9 discussing 22:10 either 10:20 34:12 examiners 19:7 extend 39:22
distort 52:8 employment 37:9 exception 25:10,15
30:11 40:14 45:11 enacting 4:3 excuse 37:8 51:1 fact 5:2 9:20 41:1
17:24 13:8 16:16 18:23 enforced 33:9 exempt 13:8 20:8 fair 18:4 31:15,16
26:8 27:12 29:5,11 31:2 45:21 enforcement 3:20 exempted 45:12 fairly 32:22 33:3
20:7 28:20 forgot 35:13 52:6 helps 33:15 35:20 individual 15:7
30:14,20 formulate 47:2 goes 33:18 35:12 high 3:22 5:9 7:3,5 individuals 6:8,10
41:2 48:17 foundation 25:18 going 17:22 21:15 7:10 8:12 9:7 infinitude 11:8
fulsome 41:21 govern 33:16,17 3:25 10:21 13:22 24:22 26:16 27:4,7
gap 17:17,18 great 4:23 5:3 23:2 humans 35:1,14,15 32:23 33:25 36:22
general 1:18 4:24 group 16:15 hypothetical 35:7 instances 30:22
51:18 GINSBURG 6:19 guidelines 19:6 impact 47:10 intent 7:3 13:17
26:15,22 27:6 28:1 39:5,17,18 40:10 42:19 interacting 47:14
6:2,5 23:18 Ginsburg's 19:9 H importance 27:12 interactions 33:17
25:21 26:8 38:8 half 23:4 important 8:15 23:8 interest 23:3 24:22
31:10,14 give 13:25 15:10,16 hallway 5:21 27:11 30:7 37:6,25 25:1 26:3,5,9 31:4
37:22 38:10 36:17,20 41:4,17 handle 12:6 40:6 49:6 31:12 49:21
49:4 50:3 45:17 46:8 52:18 hands 15:21 importantly 7:11 interests 47:21 48:1
14:6 judges 17:20 16:22,23 17:9 11:24 12:5 13:22 10:23 16:16 18:17
19:11 23:24 judicial 3:22 8:22 30:12,15 38:11 32:18 49:3 21:17 37:19
24:1 39:3,4,8,18,20 looked 8:7 9:4 17:25map 14:21,21,23
26:1 40:3,6,8,10 47:13 18:13,16 20:1 15:3,4,11 22:3,6,6
34:6,13,17 K laws 8:19 21:15,19 27:21 22:14,23,23 23:7
36:24 37:3,4 KAGAN 31:19,23 lawyer 51:22 28:7 26:19 27:3,13,24
43:6,13,22 32:3,9,14,17 47:17 leading 4:21 10:21 looking 8:11 12:5 46:13,14,18,21
44:4,13,21 48:4 20:16 13:14 15:4 16:14 maps 14:18,20
45:3,5,23 keep 15:19 leave 4:6 32:25 16:15 18:11 19:2,3 16:25 22:3,19
KENNEDY 14:7 48:10 50:16 20:19 21:17,21 27:11,16,21,22
25:19 47:7 43:21 44:5 legislative 3:17,18 lop 17:20 51:20
9:11 17:24 key 5:22 31:23,23 13:22 18:1,12,12 lot 5:15 44:11 30:22 49:24,25
47:19 35:24 25:21 36:21 50:12 lower 4:24 41:22 materials 3:13,20
17:21 47:11 12:19 25:1 26:3 lowering 39:23 22:8 29:24 30:6
15:14,18,18 21:8,8 levels 27:12 M matters 12:3 14:6
40:11 26:22,23,25 27:1 46:23 maintain 24:23 mean 7:18,20 8:17
47:14 limitation 15:19 majority 47:18 19:16 22:1 29:10
line 11:15 12:1,7,9 45:16,17
4:10 5:11 3:7,9 5:5 6:4,24
8:10 12:2 7:8,19,22 8:4,24
24:6,20 35:4 23:4,6 32:10 36:2 47:9
19:10 21:14 local 28:16,24 29:1 9:2,21,25 10:5,11 Medicare 43:10,11
47:10 48:21
25:12 31:10 10:17 11:2,9,19,21 meets 20:5
51:24 12:21 14:14 15:24 merits 22:2
44:13 48:16 mile 23:3
36:4,6 48:6 50:6 manner 33:2
41:13 44:11 49:16
normally 32:12,12 overrule 11:12 Plus 43:1 31:17
20:24 21:1 note 50:11 9:25 10:19 11:22 prevent 42:1
26:13,20 number 13:2 32:25 P 12:13 13:21 20:2 preventing 29:12
35:5 48:19 49:19 50:3 P 3:1 21:9 29:20 35:13 previously 22:16
page 2:2 28:5,5 46:17 50:20 38:4 48:15 51:21
51:24 52:1,20 19:18,19 particular 50:20 policemen 15:17 28:9 50:23 51:3,4
oh 11:15 20:18 pass 10:14 policy 16:16 30:14 procedural 43:22
49:21 old 36:16,23 11:8 13:7 position 30:2 46:25 18:17 21:17 30:17
18:25,25 open 38:1 people 14:13,24,24 powerful 36:3 40:15 43:6,13
20:23 21:11 opened 19:22 15:9,11 17:4 21:22 practicable 50:22 proceeding 18:16
28:6,16 open-ended 13:15 28:20,21 practical 42:13,17 process 30:12 33:1
29:14 51:21 52:1 perform 32:25 43:1 49:20 34:3
operating 19:6 22:3 period 5:4 practice 23:18 34:6 produces 37:3
22:4,21 41:16 practices 4:12 12:15 promulgates 33:9
opposed 35:22 Petitioner 1:4,16 2:4 35:19 37:5,9 44:4 45:5
14:2,17 24:23 oral 1:11 2:2,5 3:7 50:14 51:16 45:24 52:9,15 proposition 9:1,2,3
40:11 referring 32:2,3,4 50:14 52:15
38:3 range 14:21 52:14 regard 43:13 request 15:3 29:18 ROBERTS 3:3
52:7 ratified 37:23,24 regulated 18:18,21 49:10,13,25 31:6,9 38:15,20,24
32:22 41:20 reached 19:24 23:24 42:14 room 17:24
reaction 51:22 regulations 18:19 requiring 51:8 Rose 12:8,10,19
38:11 39:7 16:20 17:15 20:3 regulator 10:24 21:5 reserved 13:25 21:14 24:24,25
reading 8:11 19:2 rejecting 7:3 23:18 50:13 roughly 40:25
32:20 50:12 related 3:14 4:10,13 Respondent 1:19 rule 25:13 34:1,5,22
22:25 23:3 really 8:11 10:3 14:6 19:11 24:14 33:20 responders 28:16 37:23 46:10 48:9
25:1 26:3,11 14:12 18:2 36:15 45:9,24,24 46:10 29:2 rules 3:15 4:11,12
34:4,4,11,14 38:16 relates 24:16,17 response 29:18 12:15 19:6,11 26:1
36:13 47:13 reason 11:3,5 22:12 33:19 restaurants 23:6 31:24 32:21 33:3,5
15:15,17 39:19 43:19 27:9,19 29:12 49:3 return 48:13 35:22 37:5,9 43:22
reasoning 12:19 51:5 52:5 returning 48:11 43:22,24 44:4,14
46:2 reasons 11:8 12:23 29:12 48:25 50:25 45:25 50:15 52:9
reliance 4:23 5:3 revisited 38:10 S
12:12 19:10 recognized 6:15 rely 13:11,17 40:17,20,23 41:7 safely 20:24
33:18 34:9 record 27:9 28:6 remaining 51:14 41:10,24 42:10 safety 22:2 27:25
46:15 49:7,8 records 24:6 27:4 remember 37:6 39:3 47:7 48:7 49:2,11 28:9
45:9 remove 13:19 rightly 16:24 saw 9:5,5 17:17
31:10 36:8 serious 21:3 solution 50:23 51:12 51:11 34:20 40:24 44:11
serves 49:6 somebody 5:22 statute's 50:8 48:16 49:20
47:9 51:25 sorry 28:17 43:12 stay 22:22 talk 24:16 31:19,20
19:8,14 share 28:15,23 30:7 sort 18:3 24:1 stepped 13:6,7 talked 12:11
34:25 30:15,22 SOTOMAYOR steps 17:22 talking 22:25 27:2,3
shared 14:11 28:16 10:9,12 12:10 stopgap 18:3 51:23,24
shows 22:6 16:15 subset 40:7 tens 49:16
36:12,16,18 side 9:24 26:6,10 10:7 13:9 38:10 39:14 terrorism 30:16
50:17 sides 16:9 39:24 40:3 sucked 33:6 terrorists 15:15
significant 23:2 44:6,9 suggest 18:2 30:19 testimony 19:4
14:4 28:9 similar 37:12,12 squad 27:13 suggests 9:16 25:22 thank 23:11 35:16
42:19 43:3,6 simplistic 28:9 squads 27:14 summaries 25:4 41:7,10 51:13
44:1 simply 9:12 25:2 square 24:13 superfluous 8:13 52:23
40:2 44:9 46:21 standard 23:20 supports 4:2 theoretically 30:4
21:23 27:18 site 30:11 stand-alone 5:11 40:13 they'd 40:22
40:2,22 41:1 sites 27:1 start 12:5 supposed 33:9 thing 47:15
sitting 8:21 started 33:19 37:7 Supreme 1:1,12 things 6:3 14:9
31:3,11 42:4 33:19,20,23 34:6 31:16,17,21 33:15 7:19,22 8:4,14
26:4 types 27:2 30:3 35:5 13:16 14:3 15:13 work 32:24 13:17 15:12,25
31:8,15 32:8 37:19 43:5 15:16,17,18,19,19 workable 23:20 16:20 17:14 22:1
33:2,7 16:20,25 17:2,3,4 worked 51:9 23:19 24:5 25:20
34:9 35:3 U 30:5 40:16,17 workers 17:3 34:23 36:11,18
37:6 39:1 ultimately 50:17 41:17,17 52:5 world 5:15 38:3,5,18 40:5
42:15,17 unambiguous 31:16 wanted 36:14 worried 21:12 44:18 47:22 49:6
43:25 unavailable 52:17 Washington 1:8,15 worry 20:24 50:16 51:2,3 52:20
47:1,5,15 unclear 38:4 1:18 wouldn't 33:6 43:13 20-day 50:8
50:11,13 underscore 30:5 wasn't 49:7 52:18 2010 1:9
26:16 27:6 understood 25:20 46:19 51:9 13:3,3 14:1,15
38:15 43:7 39:2 40:5 ways 5:15 12:23 X 36:12,16,24 51:10
undertaken 35:1 37:25 x 1:2,7 46:17 52:2
Web 30:11
37:14 50:25 use 4:12 12:2 15:12 we'll 3:3 41:12 5,000 49:17
35:15 49:5 willy-nilly 42:12 1981 5:16,19
17:9,9,11,11,13
45:20 47:8 wonder 49:15
50:11,13 word 31:23 51:18
words 4:12,14 20:1
28:5
9:4
9:4 39:11,23
27:10
32:24
