IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE LELAND :
STANFORD JUNIOR UNIVERSITY :
Petitioner : No. 09-1159
v. :
ROCHE MOLECULAR SYSTEMS, INC., :
ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, February 28, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:07 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DONALD B. AYER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
United States, as amicus curae, supporting
Petitioner.
MARK C. FLEMING, ESQ., Boston, Massachusetts; on
behalf of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DONALD B. AYER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of United States, as amicus
curae, supporting the Petitioner 17
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MARK C. FLEMING, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DONALD B. AYER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 56
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:07 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next this morning in Case 09-1159, the Board of
Trustees of Stanford v. Roche Molecular Systems.
Mr. Ayer.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. AYER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. AYER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
The Bayh-Dole Act sets forth a comprehensive
disposition of rights in inventions made by nonprofit
organizations and small business organizations under
Federal funding agreements. That disposition
specifically defines the rights of inventors and it puts
them in the third position behind the contractor, the
nonprofit contractor, and behind the government, and
specifically says that the inventor may only receive
rights -- that is to say, take title -- when the -- when
the contractor has declined to take title or defaulted
in some respect, and the government itself has -- has
likewise declined to take title.
In this case Roche's sole claim rests on an
assignment from an inventor who was at that time I think
without question a Stanford employee who was working on
a project under a Federal funding agreement.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What if the inventor had
not been an employee? If it had been an independent
contractor who was working in combination with the
university, how does this automatic vesting -
MR. AYER: Well, Your Honor, the act deals
specifically with independent contractors, and -- the
regulations at least do. And they indicate that the -
that the contractor in that instance, if in fact working
on a Federally funded project, would step into the shoes
of the contractor. But I don't believe it would affect
the outcome in terms of whether it would be a Bayh-Dole
invention.
The -- the critical fact here is that the
inventor was working on a project that was already
funded, his work at Cetus was part of that project. And
then that result was -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That seems to be a
factual dispute, so maybe you can be clear on that.
According to Cetus or Roche, at the time that this
scientist came to Cetus to work, there was no Federal
funding; that that Federal funding for this project, the
Stanford project, came about after the scientist had
spent his 9 months at Cetus. At least that's the
picture that -- that they draw, that the Federal -- that
they got their assignment from the scientist at a time
when there was no Federally funded project.
MR. AYER: That's what they say, Your Honor,
and I would submit that is plainly not correct. We deal
with this at pages 21 and 22 of our yellow brief, and we
specifically talk about the fact -- there's several
critical facts here. One is that the article which was
written about the work at Cetus, the JID article at page
135 of the joint appendix, specifically has a footnote
indicating that the work reported on -- that is the work
at Cetus on the assay -- was funded by the two specific
grants in issue.
Dr. Merigan, who is the head of the lab at
Stanford that Dr. Holodniy worked in, talks in his
declaration at 98 and 99 of the joint appendix -
specifically talks about how Dr. Holodniy's work was
part of the AIDS research center at Stanford and part of
an AIDS clinical trial at Stanford, and all of that work
was federally funded.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just -- just as a
hypothetical, suppose -- suppose it was as Justice
Ginsburg suggested; or indeed suppose this individual
even before he was employed by Stanford at all, much
less employed by a Stanford project funded by the
Federal Government, entered into this kind of an
agreement with somebody that he had been working for.
How -- how would it -
MR. AYER: Well, I think you have to look
very carefully at the facts, and I don't want to speak
loosely and categorically about the facts, but what -
what I will say is that in a situation where -- and this
is very clearly true -- in a situation where prior work
is done by persons who are, to start with a clearer set
of facts, not affiliated with the university, and
they -- let's say that person conceives of an invention,
and that later the university takes that conception of
an invention and reduces it to practice. The conception
by a person who is not a university employee, if -- if
there's no university person involved in the conception,
then it can't be an invention of the contractor, because
you can't be an inventor without being part of the
conception.
So that's a variation on Your Honor's -- on
Your Honor's question, but it's a -- it's a clear
example where Bayh-Dole would not apply.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How does that change when
you -- when you alter the hypothetical so that he was
already an employee of Stanford, but was not working as
an employee of Stanford when he was at this other
company? You could still say that -- that Stanford was
not the inventor.
MR. AYER: Well, you would -- you -- I think
you are now in a zone where one of the things that has
to be considered is the equitable character of any
assignment of a future interest, that is to say a future
invention. Because if in fact what was assigned was, as
here, the possibility that there might at some future
time be an invention, then equitable considerations come
into play; and one of the equitable considerations we
think the one that is of paramount significance, is the
fact that the Congress of the United States has said in
the context of Bayh-Dole that when the United States
invests money in research, it wants certain things to
happen that are very carefully set out in the -- in the
Bayh-Dole Act.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you tell me, assume
no Federal act, let's just talk about two -- or parties
that are not involved with the Federal Government.
Inventor agrees to assign to A; then inventor -
inventor in fact assigns to B; then A gets the patent -
MR. AYER: Well, it depends what's assigned,
Your Honor. If -- if B is a bona fide to purchaser
under 35 U.S.C. 261, then B would prevail. If B is not
a bona fide purchaser, and that can only apply under
261, where you are dealing with an assignment in law of
a patent or a patent application, then I think you are
in the difficult zone where there are two competing
interests in the future possibility of an invention; and
I don't know that I can, without knowing all the facts,
even intelligently try to tell you what would end up
happening.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In this case, if you do
not prevail on your principal argument, have you
preserved the point that the assignment to Cetus was
contrary to public policy?
MR. AYER: I think we have, Your Honor. I
think -- essentially I would say, frankly that that
is -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the court of appeals
didn't seem to discuss that.
MR. AYER: Well, I think that is at the
heart of -- of our -- of our core argument and of the
government's argument, and it is that, as the trial
court here held, and as we've said in our brief several
times, the inventor, because he is working here at the
time of the assignment on a Federally funded project as
an employee of Stanford University, is essentially
working on something covered by Bayh-Dole; and being
covered by Bayh-Dole means that he lacks the power to
transfer title to this future invention to someone else
because the statute has already spoken for it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Ayer, it seems the
Federal Circuit emphasized a distinction between the
scientist saying "I will assign," which was the language
used in the agreement with Stanford, and "I hereby do
assign," and it seems that that was critical to the -
to the Federal Circuit's decision.
They say -- they cite a whole bunch of
cases. The suggestion seems to be that if Stanford had
said "I hereby do assign," there would be no case
because Stanford would have been first in time.
MR. AYER: Well, one interesting thing about
that discussion is that the very first case that we know
anything about, that we're aware of, making that
distinction and relying upon the immediate effect of an
assignment using the words "I hereby assign," was the
FilmTec case in 1991. That was 2 years after the events
in this case, so how was Stanford supposed to know that
that fine distinction was going to be made?
We think the critical -- the critical issue
here is whether the inventor, while working on a
federally funded project as an employee of the
contractor -- and there's no doubt that his work at
Cetus was part of his Stanford research. All you have
to do is look at pages 16a to 18a of the petition
appendix for the court of appeals decision or pages 62a
and 69a for the district court opinion. It's perfectly
clear that everyone knew he came to Cetus to advance his
work on his Stanford research, which was in fact funded,
as we show at pages 21 and 22. And the Bayh-Dole -
JUSTICE ALITO: What have universities been
doing for the last 30 years? Have they been proceeding
on the assumption that title to inventions vested in
them automatically or have they been very careful about
getting assignments from all of their employees?
MR. AYER: Universities, and -- and I think
everybody engaged in research, is generally careful.
They have policies in place to get assignments, and
there are lots of reasons why that would be true. It
was true before the Bayh-Dole Act. It's a -- it's a
wise and prudent practice to have an understanding with
your employees about who is going to own what.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do those policies ever
distinguish between Federally funded projects and
Non-Federally funded projects?
MR. AYER: I don't -- I don't know about the
universe of them. I -- I know that the -- that the
Stanford policy in this case relevant at this time was a
policy that indicated employees could retain title in
many instances, but not where Federal law, applicable
law, says that they can't retain title; and in that
sense they do.
But those policies I think are very
clearly in virtually every case I know anything about
policies that are signed by an employee pretty much the
day they walk in the door, as I think was the case here
with Dr. Holodniy back in 1988. And it's a general
understanding of what the expectations are, and I don't
want to here be heard to say at all that we think this
is an unwise thing or that it isn't a good thing that it
goes on. It's a very good thing that it goes on,
because people need to understand what the situation is.
The critical issue is whether, in the event
that that fails to happen for some reason or that there
is a slip-up here where a fellow going to visit
somewhere on the first day there has something put under
his nose called a visitor's confidentiality agreement
which he happens to sign, and down in paragraph 2 it
talks about assigning away everything that he ever might
do as a consequence of this.
The point is that in that situation you
can't have the interest of the United States, which is
the critical paramount interest in this case -- I want
to make that very clear. It's the interest in the
United States when it spends millions and billions of
dollars on research in having that research handled in a
certain way, having the fruits of it dealt with in a
certain way and having it go where Congress says it
should go. Now, the critical -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Don't you think that
the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, in theory -- I
mean, you're cloaking yourself in the interests of the
United States, but we're going to hear from their lawyer
shortly.
MR. AYER: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you ever have
different arrangements with respect to the assignments
depending upon who the researcher is? I mean, I suppose
-- I would have supposed there are very prominent
researchers that you would like to have at Stanford, and
you would be willing to negotiate less than a
requirement of full assignment of their inventions in
order to -- to get that person there.
MR. AYER: I don't know -- I wouldn't tell
you categorically -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In other words,
you'd be willing -- wouldn't you be willing to sell the
interests of the United States down the river to get -
to advance your interests?
MR. AYER: Well, we would not, I think, be
willing, and I wouldn't think anybody would be willing,
to break the law. And we would submit that that's
what's going on here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but I thought
the law meant that the United States got whatever
interest the contractor got, right? And if -- it
doesn't say what the contractor can or can't do with
respect to the employees it has.
MR. AYER: The statute -- the statute
defines a universe of covered cases which are inventions
of the contractor, which we think the other side uses
those words to argue that -- that inventions of the
contractor are only the ones the -- the contractor
already owns by virtue of -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Plus the word "retained,"
don't forget that, too.
MR. AYER: Right. Those two provisions are
essentially their argument for narrowing the universe of
inventions that is covered.
And I want to just say at the outset, the
critical thing about narrowing the universe of
inventions covered is that it narrows the universe of
inventions in which the government's rights to, number
one, itself receive title under several provisions of
the act; number two, itself to enforce a whole series of
requirements under 202(c)(4), (5), (6), (7) and a
variety of other provisions, to itself march in and do
things.
When you define out of that category
instances where inventions exist and were produced with
Federal money, then you're limiting the coverage of the
government's interests. But on the two provisions at
issue, we think clearly they do not mean what the other
side says they mean. The word "invention of" someone is
conventionally understood, if you hear the light bulb
was an invention of Thomas Edison, you don't think
Thomas Edison owns the patent; you think he invented it.
The same thing is true. Even though -
JUSTICE ALITO: There are two things that
cut very strongly against your argument. I mean, there
are many things that cut in favor of it, but the two
things that seem to me to cut pretty strongly against
your argument are: First, that it has long been the
rule that inventors have title to their patents
initially, even if they make those inventions while
working for somebody else.
And the second is that you are relying on a
provision that says that the nonprofit organization may
elect to retain title, which means hold onto a title,
that the -- the organization already has. There's just
no accepted definition of the word "retain" that
corresponds to the meaning that you want to assign to
that word. "Retain" does not mean obtain.
MR. AYER: Thank you, Your Honor. Can I
answer? Basically, what I would say is, on the first
point: You're quite correct, obviously, that that's the
general rule, that inventors receive title. However,
just in this case, in this fact pattern, the array of
so-called vesting statutes that predated the Bayh-Dole
Act throughout the 30 years in between are statutes that
specifically, in most instances without any discussion
of an assignment, simply vested title directly in the
United States. So Congress clearly had the power to do
that, and they did it, and no one ever seriously argued
that they couldn't.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But this isn't vesting it
in the United States. This is -- this is speaking of
the -- the university retaining title. If -- if the
government was going to make such a huge change from
normal patent law where the inventor owns his invention
until he assigns it to his employer, why wasn't that set
forth clearly? All they needed was one paragraph.
MR. AYER: Well, Your Honor -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It says when you're working
on a -- on a government-funded project, you have no
right to your invention as an -- as an employee. It
automatically vests in the -- in the university. I
would have expected that to be set forth very clearly
if -- if they were making such an immense change in
patent law.
MR. AYER: Well, Your Honor, I would take
exception to how immense it is, given the prior history
in which the government simply took title to these very
same inventions.
But on the issue of the meaning of the word
"retain," that's actually a word that has a lot of
potential connotations. The one thing we can be sure of
here without any doubt is that it doesn't mean that you
had to have ownership before, because in section 202(d)
of the act, the act specifically talks about the
inventor's opportunity to itself be considered for
retention of title, and everyone agrees that that phrase
is one that never applies when the inventor already has
title. So "retain" doesn't mean that.
We would submit that what the word "retain"
means is -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I lost you. Go
over that again.
MR. AYER: Okay. 202(d) -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, where is that?
MR. AYER: 202(d) is -- is the section -
where is it in the -- okay. It is -- it is on page 9a.
And it says that if a contractor does not elect to
retain title -- 9a of the blue brief, I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Got you.
MR. AYER: -- "does not elect to retain
title to a subject invention in cases subject to this
section, the Federal agency may consider and, after
consultation with the contractor, grant a request for
retention of rights by the inventor."
On 38 of the red brief, you will see the
other side vehemently arguing that that only applies
when the inventor doesn't have title to start with. So
you can't have "retain" mean one thing in one place and
place -- and one thing in the other.
Your Honor, if I could, I would like to save
the rest of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Stewart.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
As the Chief Justice's question suggests,
although Stanford and the government's interests are
aligned in this case, that won't invariably be so, and
the government has perhaps different reasons for
supporting the same position that Stanford is
supporting.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Stewart, could I ask you
just a factual question?
When the Federal Government contracts with
universities or other nonprofits, does it require those
universities to get assignments from their employees?
And if so, how?
MR. STEWART: The government-wide regulation
that -- which was promulgated by the Department of
Commerce and which identifies certain things that should
be in the funding agreements, it does not require an
assignment of title from the university's employees.
The regulation does require the university
to make assurance -- give assurances that it has
contractual obligations from its employees to cooperate
in filing the documents necessary to process a completed
patent application. But that would be necessary -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So why doesn't the Federal
Government just require assignments from employees to
the university?
MR. STEWART: Well, under our theory -
first, under our theory it wouldn't be necessary,
because the statute itself would give the university
title. And second, under Respondent's theory I think
there is a substantial doubt whether it would be
permissible. That is, Respondent's vision of the
Bayh-Dole Act is that Congress imposed elaborate
requirements on inventions as to which the contractor
has obtained title from the researcher, but that
Congress left entirely to private ordering, was
indifferent as to whether the contractor took title in
the first instance.
And if that view of the statute were
accepted, there would at least be a substantial doubt
whether the Commerce Department could promulgate
regulations that would validly require the contractor to
do something that, in Respondent's view, Congress left
to private ordering.
Now, I don't want to argue that point too
vigorously, because certainly, if this Court holds that
assignments from the inventors are required, we would
like to have the opportunity to require the contractor
to get them, but it isn't clear to me how you would get
there if Respondent's view of the statute were accepted.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that.
Why can't the Federal government just say: We're not
going to fund your project unless you get assignments of
inventions by all the employees working on it? What's
the problem?
MR. STEWART: We would certainly like to
have the opportunity to do that, but to use an analogy,
the Bayh-Dole Act is triggered by voluntary choices of
small businesses and nonprofits to accept Federal funds.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And by -- and by the
Federal 0 voluntary decision to provide funds. I mean,
certainly you can condition your grant of funds on that.
I -- I really don't see the problem.
MR. STEWART: If -- certainly if this Court,
as I say, holds that the -- an assignment from the
inventor is required, then we would like to be able to
have regulations that would require that to be done. As
I say -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does the -- as a
practical matter, when a university is seeking a patent,
doesn't it have to identify the inventors and get
their -- proof of their assignment before it can claim
ownership of the patent?
MR. STEWART: Well, typically it would -- it
would certainly have to identify the inventors on the
patent application, and typically the university
would -- whether it felt an assignment was legally
required or not, it would attempt to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's a different
question than mine.
MR. STEWART: It would -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does the Patent Office
require the assignment for purposes of showing ownership
of the patent?
MR. STEWART: Not -- in most cases, but not
necessarily. There's a provision of the Patent Act, 35
U.S.C. 118, which says that if an inventor refuses to
execute an assignment or cannot be found after
reasonable diligence, a person to whom the patent
application has been assigned or to whom the inventor
has promised to assign it, or some other person with a
sufficient proprietary interest in the invention, can
file its own patent application. It will identify the
inventor as the inventor, and it will provide
documentation that establishes its own interest in the
invention.
And this is the kind of thing that we might
in some instances have to do with respect to Federal
employees. That is, there's an executive order that
says basically as a condition of Federal employment, if
you conceive -- if you create or conceive an invention
on the job, it -- the Federal Government is entitled to
take title to it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I ask -- that all
sounds to me like there's an assumption about
assignments, even in the patent law, that you -- the
section that you just recited to me says a promise to
assign will get you an assignment if the inventor won't
give it to you.
MR. STEWART: It could be a -- I mean, there
are two different things. It could be a promise to
assign at the formation of the employment arrangement,
where the employee is not -- doesn't necessarily have in
mind any particular invention, but he exercises a
contractual commitment to assign to the -- to the
employer at a later date.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that what we're
dealing with in this case? I mean, there was a -- an
agreement, a standard Stanford agreement, that said I
will assign any -- any patent.
MR. STEWART: He agreed to that, and he also
agreed that he would not enter into any other
arrangement that placed him in conflict with the
agreement he had made -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So why isn't that the
beginning and end of this case? I mean you -- there are
important questions presented. But the Federal Circuit
said everything turns on the difference between "I will
assign" and "I hereby assign." Cetus would have come
second in time, therefore would not have prevailed over
Stanford, but for, except, the Federal Circuit said, one
is a future conveyance and one is an immediate
conveyance. You know -
MR. STEWART: Leaving aside the question of
whether that is right or wrong is a matter of contract
law, our view is it was not within Stanford's power to
essentially convey to the inventor or allow the inventor
to retain title, and that's clear in a couple of
different respects. The provision that Mr. Ayer was
reading, section 202(d), says that if the contractor
does not elect to retain title, then the inventor can
make a request for retention of title, which the agency
will consider after consultation with the contractor.
So the statute doesn't say to the contractor -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but Justice
Ginsburg's question, and I have the same concern, is
that why can't we resolve this case in a simple way?
What you're asking for, based on submissions to us of
amici, of amicus briefs, means a very great change in
how -- how -- how patents are held. If we can resolve
this case on a simple contract basis, why not do it?
MR. STEWART: Well, I -- if the Court were
to hold that the agreement made with Stanford took
precedence over the contractual commitment to Cetus,
based either on general contract law or on the view that
Bayh-Dole would prohibit the enforcement of the -- of
the agreement with Cetus under these circumstances, that
would satisfactorily resolve the case from the
government's perspective. The one -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Stewart, do you know, is
this a Stanford-specific problem or is it a more general
problem? In other words, are there many universities
that have agreements like Stanford's that would be
subject to the Federal Circuit's ruling? Or is this
just an example of one university that unfortunately has
a bad agreement?
MR. STEWART: I think there are probably a
lot of universities that use this language, and indeed,
as one of the amicus briefs points out, it's very
natural to distinguish between a present assignment and
a promise to assign in the future with respect to an
invention that now exists. It seems a little ethereal
to distinguish between a present assignment of an
invention that has not yet been created and an agreement
to assign that in the future.
Now, certainly universities could change
their contracts if that was what was necessary. I think
one of the concerns that the government has, and this
was hinted at by the Chief Justice's question, is that
we're -- we're worried not just about what can be done
to universities, but what universities could do to us.
That is, it's standard university practice to say
employees agree to assign their inventions to the
university, and the two parties will divide the
royalties; and if that is done, then even under
Respondent's view it becomes a subject invention; and
the university's commercialization of the invention is
subject to all the requirements of Bayh-Dole. The
government -
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't it the case that at
least some components, possibly many components, of the
Federal Government for the last 30 years have been
proceeding on that assumption that assignments were
necessary? The grants here were -- were from NIH, isn't
that right?
MR. STEWART: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: And one of the amicus briefs
points out that the NIH compliance guidelines say by law
an inventor has initial ownership of invention; however,
awardee organizations are required by the Bayh-Dole Act
to have in place employee -- employee agreements
requiring an inventor to assign or give ownership of an
invention to the organization -
MR. STEWART: -- well, the -- the NIH
document is internally inconsistent, because it says at
the beginning that title passes automatically to the
university, but then, as you say, it states later on
that an assignment is required, but that the contractor
is required to get it.
And I think some people have proceeded on
that assumption because it never -- so long as
assignments were in place and were enforceable, it never
really mattered whether they were needed.
But to continue my answer to Justice Kagan,
I wanted to point out, under Respondent's theory,
universities could make a conscious, calculated decision
that, rather than obtain an assignment for their
inventors, they would simply agree with the inventor
that royalties would be split in -- in the same manner
as previously, but that the inventor would retain title
and, perhaps with the assistance of the university's
technology transfer office, would negotiate with
commercial entities. And the effect would be to
contract around Bayh-Dole; commercialization could occur
without complying with any of the prerequisites.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Stewart.
Mr. Fleming.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK C. FLEMING
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. FLEMING: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Bayh-Dole Act had the laudable objective
of taking inventions off of government shelves and
putting them into the market, and it succeeded; but it
did not change the long-standing rule dating back to
this Court's decisions in Hapgood and Dubilier that
title to an invention vests in the inventor, subject to
assignment, not in the inventor's employer. We submit
that, in light of this long-settled rule which Congress
nowhere purported to change, the Act should be given its
straightforward meaning.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there a reason
that the Federal Government can't just say, from now on
we're not going to give any money to Stanford or anybody
else until they have an agreement making clear that the
inventor is going to ensure sure that title rests with
the university, which then triggers the Bayh-Dole Act?
MR. FLEMING: Mr. Chief Justice, I know of
no reason why the Federal Government cannot make that
requirement. In fact, in the case of FilmTec v.
Hydranautics, a Federal Circuit decision, the decision
reflects that the Federal agency there did exactly that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you have no
problem -- I mean, Mr. Stewart is being careful for his
client, but you're comfortable with the idea that the
government could impose that, even though there's
nothing in the statute that requires it, and even though
somebody could argue that the statute's somewhat
inconsistent with it, in the -- in the sense that it
wants to promote commercialization.
MR. FLEMING: As far as I know that has
never been litigated, but I know of no reason why a
Federal agency couldn't say to a contractor, we want to
be absolutely certain that the assumption that underlay
not only Bayh-Dole contracting, but contracting going
all the way back to Attorney General Biddle's report in
1947, that everyone assumed was in place, which is an
assignment from an employee, whether it's a Federally
funded invention or a privately funded invention -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, though -
MR. FLEMING: -- would go to the contractor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's where I
exactly am. I mean, the -- the brief that I found very,
very interesting is that filed by the Association of
American Universities and the Advancement For Science
and the Council on Education, and they seem to take the
line that you are -- I don't know how far you want to
pursue it.
They say the strongest analogy is with
government employees, and if you look at government
employees the basic rule is, the Federal Government paid
for it, they should have the invention. And the way
they do it is not to deny the employee the right to have
the invention, but they insist upon an assignment,
assignment of an exclusive license.
And there are cases which are cited here
that suggest that, even if the employee tries to run his
way around that and simply goes and before the
government can get it assigns the interest to a third
party, that that third party assignment is void as a
matter of public policy; and that the assignment to the
government of the exclusive right is valid as a matter
of law, a legal implication from the executive order in
the circumstance.
That brings me back to where Justice
Ginsburg was, and Justice Kennedy. The analogy is so
strong. The government has paid for it. There is a
statute here that really seems to assume, though not
explicitly say, that the universities will have title -
that we simply copy what happened in this other area and
say that an effort to assign by the employee in
contravention of what this statute takes as its basic
assumption, and a contract, is void as a matter of
public policy, because the exclusive license is assumed
to be assumed -- to be assigned to the university,
though I don't need the second part; for this case, the
first part suffices.
MR. FLEMING: Justice Breyer, let me begin
with the assumption that I agree underlies the AAU brief
about the situation with respect to government
employees. Actually, I think the situation of
government employees supports our side, because, as this
Court ruled in Dubilier, just because the government
pays for an invention does not mean that it
automatically owns it.
In Dubilier, there were employees of the
Bureau of Standards who came up with particular
inventions and they got patents on them, and the
government said: We own that because these are
government employees. And this Court ruled that's not
the case. Government employees are in no different
position from employees of private entities with respect
to ownership of their inventions.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that before the
executive order or after?
MR. FLEMING: The executive order simply
says that there can be regulations where the employment
agreement, which is essentially regulatory between the
government agency and the individual, can result in an
assignment from the individual to the government, just
as the same applies in private industry. Employees sign
either an agreement to assign, as happened with
Dr. Holodniy and Stanford here, or, as happened with
Cetus, there's a present assignment of future expected
interest.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but the
problem with -
MR. FLEMING: I'm sorry, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are you finished
answering Justice Breyer?
MR. FLEMING: What I was going to say is
that there was no rule of automatic vesting of title,
which is what -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I understand that.
MR. FLEMING: There's a requirement of an
assignment. And the regulations actually give the
government employee the right to refuse to assign an
invention to the government, and there are appeal
procedures, as set out in many of the regulations. We
quote the Air Force regulations in our brief, but there
are many others, where it's possible that the employee
will wind up retaining his rights to an invention that
was made, even though he's a government employee.
JUSTICE BREYER: And if the employee seeks
to assign to a third party in contravention of his
agreement, rules and regulations, et cetera, what
happens to that assignment?
MR. FLEMING: Well, there can be -- it
depends on the facts, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: The facts are that he was
supposed to give it to -
MR. FLEMING: There could be a situation
where there's an order to reassign, as there was in the
Heinemann case.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, there's no -- what
there is, is an agreement with the government that says
any invention you will assign to the government. That's
the agreement.
MR. FLEMING: Uh-huh.
JUSTICE BREYER: And now, in violation of
that agreement, he assigns it to a third party. What
happens to that assignment?
MR. FLEMING: The question will be whether
that assignment can be void under ordinary equitable
principles, just as it said here.
JUSTICE BREYER: And what the Court said -
my reading of it, must be yours -- is in the cases they
cite, that assignment to the third party is void as a
matter of law because it's contrary to public policy.
That was my reading of it, and I'm questioning you about
that because I might not have read it correctly.
MR. FLEMING: I'm not sure which case Your
Honor is referring to. If it's the Heinemann case -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you have -- you have
here L-I v. Montgomery, Li v. Montgomery -
MR. FLEMING: Well, Li v. Montgomery, is I
believe -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, am I right or not in
your opinion.
MR. FLEMING: I -- I don't think so, Justice
Breyer. I think Li v. Montgomery is the unpublished
decision of the D.C. Circuit, which has less than a
sentence of discussion of this. The only one in which
there -- this was actually covered in any respect I
think is the Heinemann decision in the Federal Circuit.
But there, there was no assignment to a third party.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How -
MR. FLEMING: It was just a question whether
the -- I'm sorry, Justice Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there any conceivable
reason that, under the Bayh-Dole Act, whose intent was
to protect the government's interests after it's funded
the discovery or implementation of an invention, that
Congress would have ever wanted the university and the
inventor to be able to circumvent the act by failing to
secure an assignment?
MR. FLEMING: The purpose of the act,
Justice Sotomayor, was to clarify the relationship
between the contractor on the one hand and the Federal
government on the other on the basis of uniform
Federal -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But frankly, every act
before this one -- actually, the IPA -- required that
the contractor seek assignments from inventors. Why
would this act omit such a critical term if it didn't
intend to vest title in the contractor?
MR. FLEMING: The answer, Justice Sotomayor,
is given by the IPA, which is: There was no need for
such a requirement. Universities had shown that they
were perfectly able under existing law -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The government just
said -- if we say that the contractor and the inventor
can do what they want, what sane university wouldn't
enter into agreements with employees letting the
employees retain title to their inventions and just
sharing royalties thereafter? It wouldn't make any
sense for universities to do what you're saying -- get
assignments -- because they could just continue taking
the bulk of the royalties.
MR. FLEMING: If that were to happen,
Justice Sotomayor, the remedy that Mr. Stewart kept in
his pocket, which is that the agency would say to the
university: You're not getting any more Federal money
until we are assured that the assumption that has
underlaid Federal contracting since 1947 and before is
in place, namely, that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that might lead
to the same thing that the Bayh-Dole Act was intended to
get away from, which is a variety of different
arrangements across the vast array of government
agencies, because they will have differing degrees of
interest, differing leverage with respect to what they
insist on from the different contractors.
MR. FLEMING: Well, Congress, Mr. Chief
Justice, in the Bayh-Dole Act, was considered with a
particular type of uncertainty. It didn't do anything
and everything that could be argued to create
uncertainty in tech licensing.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you -- are you
aware of situations where the universities enter into
different types of arrangements with different types of
professors and researchers?
MR. FLEMING: Certainly.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Presumably some of
them have greater degree of leverage than others and can
say: Look, you've got to make sure I get this much of
the royalties, and I'm only going to give you that much.
MR. FLEMING: Well, certainly there are
different approaches, and that is the system that
Bayh-Dole left in place, which is that the relationship
between the contractor and the inventor would be
governed under ordinary patent contract law principles.
MIT and Caltech, for instance -- I'm sorry, I was going
to answer the question with examples, but -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, go ahead.
MR. FLEMING: MIT and Caltech get present
assignments of future interest. We cite those policies
in the brief. Stanford, for its own reasons -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The whole thing that was
wrong here is that Stanford, instead of drafting the
agreement "I agree to assign," should have said "I
hereby assign" and then there would be no case. Is
that -- the Cetus agreement said "I hereby assign," and
the Federal Circuit said for that reason, even though it
was second in time, it takes precedence. Stanford just
said "I will assign."
So if Stanford had instead used exactly the
formula that Cetus used -- "I agree to assign and hereby
do assign" -- would you have any case?
MR. FLEMING: The question presented before
this Court would not be presented. There would be other
arguments we might have as to whether that earlier
assignment was enforceable as against Cetus in light of
representations that were made at the time Dr. Holodniy
came in.
But Justice Ginsburg, your question is -- is
sound, which is that there is this distinction between
an agreement to assign and a present assignment of
future expected interests. That has been the law for
decades. There are plenty of settled expectations based
on that. That has not been challenged, not in the
petition for certiorari, not in the opening brief of
Stanford, and it only comes up in a footnote on the
penultimate page of the reply brief. So I would
submit -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So if the Cetus agreement
that came second in time had said "I will assign," then
again, you would have no case?
MR. FLEMING: The question presented here
would not arise, because the only effective assignment
of the invention would have been the assignment that
Stanford got subsequently from all three coinventors and
filed in the Patent Office in 1995, recognizing that it
couldn't simply say: Bayh-Dole Act vests title in
Stanford, but rather, we need an assignment, and it got
one.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: We -- we have a number of
sample clauses in this record, and some say "I will
assign." Some say "I hereby do assign." The notion
that the -- that answer, who is it who loses, should
turn on whether one drafter says "I agree to assign" and
the other says "I hereby assign" does seem very odd.
MR. FLEMING: That's a distinction, Justice
Ginsburg, that goes back to the Federal Circuit decision
in Arachnid by Judge Giles Rich, who is a notable
authority on the patent act. He relied on the Curtis
treatise from 1873. But if that were an issue that the
Court wished to reconsider, I think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that patent law or is it
regular contract law? Doesn't it apply in other fields
as well? I mean, I'm -- I'm not aware that this is a
peculiar doctrine applicable to patent law.
MR. FLEMING: No, not in particular. An
agreement to assign is specifically that. It's an
agreement to do an assignment in the future.
JUSTICE SCALIA: To do it in the future. If
somebody else gets an assignment before that agreement
is -- is executed, the assignment prevails.
MR. FLEMING: That's -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then we're talking about
nonexistent property; property that may never, in fact,
exist?
MR. FLEMING: That comes from the FilmTec
decision, which relied on Justice Storey's decision in
Mitchell, and it's used, again, by universities like
Caltech and MIT that rely on the validity of a present
assignment of future expected interest.
I mean, I know that the issue of the
interpretation of agreements to assign was addressed in
the cert petition in ProStar v. IP Venture, which this
Court denied cert on three terms ago. But if this Court
were to wish to reconsider that doctrine, I would submit
it can be done in an appropriate case where there is an
amicus briefing on that issue. That's not been
considered here at all.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So in the future, the
universities would be protected against a third party
simply by changing the form of contract with their
employees to say "I hereby assign," so we would have no
continuing problem? Is that all this -
MR. FLEMING: I -- they -- they would be
protected from this particular constellation of facts
that came up in this case. There might be other
problems -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, and then your clients
would be out there arguing, oh, but you, see you can't
assign a future interests in the fruits from black acre;
I mean, you can promise to do it, but black acre isn't
even around yet. And so when somebody ran in and got
those fruits, well, then now we have a fight; and in law
the second person wins, and in equity maybe the first
person can get an injunction. I don't know. But I
guess people would raise that kind of argument, wouldn't
they?
MR. FLEMING: The point, Justice Breyer, is
that all these questions are resolved in the exactly
same way when we're not talking about a federally funded
invention. The Bayh-Dole Act has nothing to say about
this.
JUSTICE BREYER: So if fact -
MR. FLEMING: Those questions might be
relevant -
JUSTICE BREYER: The reason it's relevant
you to, of course, if that's so, Senator Bayh and
Senator Dole passed a law which could so easily be
subverted by individual inventions and third-party
companies that there might be a large class of cases
where neither the university nor the government would
actually get much of a benefit from research that the
taxpayer had funded.
MR. FLEMING: I don't think that's a fair
inference, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because?
MR. FLEMING: The fact that this has not
happened at all in 30 years of the Bayh-Dole Act.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because most people perhaps
thought that they had made a valid assignment.
MR. FLEMING: Well, in most situations there
will be a valid assignment, but the fact that Stanford
here did not get an effective assignment from Dr.
Holodniy is no reason to read the Bayh-Dole Act that
Congress did not intend to draft it. And -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it's just -
MR. FLEMING: -- it that it doesn't -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- it's not just
that there may or may not be an effective assignment.
The problem is you may get together, you the inventor
get together with the university and say, look, the one
-- we share an interest in making sure none of this goes
to the government. Why would we want to do that? So
you make an arrangement.
Your theory -- your theory is that whatever
the contractor gets is what the government can get and
nothing more, so the contractor and you work out a deal
to make sure that the contractor doesn't get the
invention or the patent, it just gets royalties.
MR. FLEMING: I think -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And they're happy
because they're -- the value of the patent is not
diluted by the fact that the government is going to be
doing something with it.
MR. FLEMING: I think in that situation, Mr.
Chief Justice, there would be other doctrines that the
government or a bona fide third-party purchaser could
invoke, including section 261 of the Patent Act or a
lawsuit for a reassignment, as is happening in Fenn v.
Yale or a -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So at the end of the
day, though, your theory is that Congress passed a law
that could -- I guess this is Justice Breyer's point -
be easily circumvented not only by the inventor but by
the inventor and the contractor working together.
MR. FLEMING: It's not that it can be
circumvented. It's -- there are efforts, there are ways
in which if there is an inequitable assignment, it can
be attacked in equity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There's nothing
inequitable about it. It's a perfectly fair deal
between the university and the inventor.
Mr. Fleming: In that event the government
has all the remedies that Mr. Stewart was talking about.
As a matter of leverage, it could take the patent by
eminent domain, and just compensation might be quite low
if in fact it has funded all of the research.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It could refuse to fund.
MR. FLEMING: Absolutely, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It could refuse to fund
without a clear assignment upfront.
MR. FLEMING: That's quite right. What it
can't do is relitigate Dubilier and just say that
because we funded it, we own it. It doesn't make that
rule even for Federal employees. An assignment is
required. I mean, I think -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you have an explanation,
Mr. Fleming, of why it is that Congress left such a big
problem off the table?
MR. FLEMING: I -
JUSTICE KAGAN: In other words, clearly
Congress was thinking about how to protect the
government's interests with respect to these patents,
and to say, well, we have these interests with respect
to patents that the university owns, but we don't have
those same interests with respect to patents that the
individual researcher owns, just seems bizarre.
MR. FLEMING: There is an explanation,
Justice Kagan. Which is that the universities had shown
they didn't need a vesting rule in order to get title
from their inventors, just the same as private industry
does not need a vesting rule to get title to
nonfederally funded inventions. This was something that
Attorney General Biddle in 1947 -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Sorry. They -- they do.
I mean, the general rule is that the inventor owns the
patent.
MR. FLEMING: Correct, Justice Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And there -- there is
proof that they can go into court, an employer can go
into court and show that the inventor was hired for this
specific item and the law would presume or recognize the
employer's rights; but why would Congress leave all of
that up to the nature of the contract that the
university entered into with its inventors?
MR. FLEMING: That's precisely what happens
in the context of Federal employees, it's governed by
the employment relationship between the Federal
Government and the employee, and it was shown in the IPA
system, in the system that Attorney General Biddle
talked about in '47, that the assignment came under
ordinary patent law. There was no need for a new -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the -- but the
question I started with and Justice Kagan has picked up
on, why would Congress create this act relying on
assignments and not have a provision requiring one?
Nothing in the Act, nothing in its regulations, nowhere
is there a requirement that Federal contractors seek
assignments.
MR. FLEMING: Because there was no need for
such a requirement. The universities and industry were
able to do it without the vesting rule.
I think in order for Stanford to prevail
here, to Justice Scalia's point, the Court would have to
be satisfied that -- that Congress worked a highly
transformative change in the law of patent ownership and
assignment and did it in a very obscure and indirect
way. It didn't do it through an express provision, like
it does in section 201 of the Copyright Act, which
expressly says that an employer can be treated like an
author for purposes of the copyright. It didn't do it
in the way that was done under the IPAs, which is it was
left entirely up to private contract.
Supposedly it created this brand-new vesting
rule, not through a clear provision, but through a
questionable implications from the preamble or other
provisions of the Act that don't directly apply, and it
did it without a peep in the legislative history that
Congress was trying to do this. I think it's remarkable
that for 30 years of Bayh-Dole, no one noticed this
supposedly all-encompassing vesting rule until this case
arose. As Justice Alito -
JUSTICE BREYER: But it's also remarkable
the other way, that here we have many statutes that took
the principle that when the government pays for an
invention, the invention vests in the government. Now,
there's that statute, that background. Not all of them,
but some. NASA, various others.
MR. FLEMING: There are three of them,
Justice Breyer -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, that's fine.
MR. FLEMING: -- and they all specifically
say in terms that title shall vest.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I know that; I know
that; that isn't my point.
MR. FLEMING: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: My point is that it's
somewhat remarkable because of this new statute, now
that happens to only to inventions in those areas that
are inventions of the contractor who, by the way,
invents nothing. Human beings invent things, not
entities like universities.
MR. FLEMING: That's quite so.
JUSTICE BREYER: And on your view what that
means is it applies to nothing. It only applies to
those things that the contractor freely or not freely
decides to get from his employee -- if he uses the right
words and so forth.
That also seems a little surprising, that
there could be such a hole in what used to be public
ownership of such matters. I'm not -- I don't mean to
be -- I started off sounding a little sarcastic. I
didn't mean to be. I mean to be -- serious question.
MR. FLEMING: No, no, I -- I appreciate the
question, Justice Breyer.
The point about the vesting statutes, it's
important to make a distinction between statutes that
expressly vested title, of which we know of three, and
statutes under which the government was entitled to ask
for an assignment from the employee or the contractor,
which were -
JUSTICE BREYER: Your answer is not as bad
as I think.
MR. FLEMING: Thank you.
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- okay. Now.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: What about -- what about
the provision that says there shall be -- this is a
provision of the law, that the universities are supposed
to enter into contracts, funding contracts with the
government to make this thing effective.
Hmm -- effective. Effective for what?
Effective just to apply to some of the things that
universities got money to pay for? Or to a lot of them,
to all of them?
MR. FLEMING: Effective in terms of
inventions of the contractor to which the university has
the right to retain title. Try as Stanford may,
"retain" does not mean "get." It doesn't mean to take
away from somebody. An invention of the contractor for
exactly the reason you say, Justice Breyer, is not an
invention created by a contractor employee. Contractors
don't invent.
When Congress wanted to refer to employees
in the Act, it did; in section 202(c)(7), it refers to
contractor employees. In 202(e), it refers to employees
of Federal agencies. If -- if Congress had wanted to
pass a law that completely wiped out the practice of
leaving the relationship between contractor and inventor
to private contract, it had plenty of examples of how to
do so. It had the NASA statutes, it had the Copyright
Act, or it could have just written something clear that
said that.
It did none of those things because it
didn't need to. Over $200 billion of -- of funding
comes from the private sector to -- to technology and
inventions like this without the benefit of a vesting
rule. If there's any lack of clarity or lack of
certainty in this world, it is worked out through the
patent law, ordinary provisions, or through the common
law, and that is exactly the way Congress envisioned it
would be done in -- in the federally funded situation.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, isn't there a -
MR. FLEMING: There's no need to state a
separate rule for Stanford for -- for inventions that
funded out of its endowment, versus inventions that are
funded out of a Federal grant.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't there a big difference
between the statute and the prior vesting statutes? The
prior vesting statutes said if the government pays for
the research, then the taxpayers ought to get the
benefit of the patent. But this statute says if the
taxpayers pay for the research, if the research is 100
percent funded by the taxpayers, taxpayers don't get the
first priority. The first priority goes to the
universities.
So it's totally different from the vesting
statute. This is a Federal subsidy for universities and
other nonprofits, isn't it?
MR. FLEMING: In some ways, Justice Alito,
that's right. And the point is that the statute is
limited to inventions where the contractor has gotten
title from its inventors. It is certain different -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The Federal Government
hadn't been doing much with the parents that it acquired
automatically?
MR. FLEMING: Absolutely not, Justice
Scalia. That's exactly -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the reason they gave
it to the university or to the private sector.
MR. FLEMING: That is exactly the reason
this act was -- was enacted, is to get rid of the
inconsistent practices among agencies as to the terms of
contracts with contractors. It has to do with the quid
pro quo. The Federal government gives the money, it
agrees not to demand title, and in return the contractor
takes on certain obligations. It isn't -- the
obligations are not opposable against a noncontractor,
like Cetus or Roche in this case. And that's exactly
the same as the situations that we cite on page 35 of
our brief, which we've offered to lodge with the Court,
where Stanford co-owns patents with noncontractor
companies like the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What are the
obligations -- what are the obligations that the
contractor undertakes?
MR. FLEMING: The contractor agrees to give
the government a nonexclusive paid-up irrevocable
license. It agree to be subject to march-in rights if
the government feels that the invention is not being
sufficiently commercialized.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All things -- all
things that the government had and more under the prior
system?
MR. FLEMING: Yes. That's -- well, that's
certainly right. It will all depend on what the
individual Federal contract has, but yes, in many ways
the government was giving up rights in the Bayh-Dole
Act, and that was deliberate, because it was felt that
the -- that private entities would do a better job of
commercializing inventions than the Federal government
was doing, and that's not disputed, but it has nothing
to do with the rights that apply to a third party that
has not taken on obligations from the government, like
Cetus, that simply invited Mr. Holodniy in, in order to
collaborate, but before it did so, said: We need an
agreement to protect our intellectual property.
One of the hypotheticals that underlies
Mr. Ayer's presentation here is that Dr. Holodniy was
some kind of rogue, faithless employee who was out on a
frolic of his own and simply decided to assign away all
his inventions in satisfaction of a personal debt. But
the record is quite the contrary. He showed up because
he did not know how to do the PCR technique that is at
the core of this invention. The Court only needs to
read pages 55 to 57 of the Joint Appendix, where he has
marched through each of the steps of this invention
that's ultimately claimed in the patents and admits that
he had not done any one of them.
He went to Cetus, he took the -- he had the
benefit of a free flow of information from Cetus
scientists, and he also got confidential, proprietary
materials that were not available in stores, including,
particularly, the RNA standard, which is used every
single time one of these assays is run. It's the thing
that gives you the standard curve against which you can
measure the data from your unknown sample and figure out
what the quantity of HIV is in your patient's sample.
That was, you know, not available at Stanford. It was
designed by Alice Lang of Cetus. It was built by
Clayton Casipit in the Cetus lab. It was named after
him, using his initials, CC 2, and Mr. Casipit handed it
to Dr. Holodniy in a tube for free.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think that Cetus
would have let the doctor in absent the agreement
between Cetus and Stanford? Wasn't that the primary
reason they permitted the doctor in? It wasn't for this
ephemeral assignment of an unknown invention. It was
because the university and the company had entered into
a share agreement of what would happen if they
contributed to a Stanford invention.
MR. FLEMING: I wouldn't quite agree with
the end of the question, Justice Sotomayor. What
happened is that Dr. Holodniy's supervisor at Stanford,
Dr. Merigan, sat on Cetus's scientific advisory board.
When it became clear that Dr. Holodniy could not figure
out how to do a PC assay that would quantitate HIV at
Stanford, he arranged for Dr. Holodniy to visit Cetus in
order to learn how to do that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they had a
preexisting cooperative arrangement, correct?
MR. FLEMING: It was a materials transfer
agreement, that's right. So when Dr. Holodniy went
there, he signed a separate assignment, the one that
assigned his inventions, as a result of the
collaboration or as a consequence of the collaboration,
to Cetus. And that was the consideration.
To this day, Stanford has not explained what
Cetus could have done to protect its intellectual
property so that it could have been able to practice its
invention without having to go to Stanford for a license
and pay a royalty. As far as I know, the only thing
under Stanford's theory that Cetus could have done is
told Dr. Holodniy to take a hike, because they couldn't
have any assurance that his employer would subsequently
say, You know what? There was a thousand dollars, ten
dollars, one dollar -- we don't know -- of Federal
funding under an agreement that has never been produced,
that is of indeterminate scope, and they suggest, simply
by averring in a patent application, that this is all of
a sudden a Bayh-Dole invention, even though it was -
indisputably now, under the findings of the District
Court, conceived before Dr. Holodniy left Cetus and
subject to this agreement, and it was done at a time
when Dr. Holodniy was being paid not by a
Bayh-Dole-related grant, but by a National Research
Service Award, which the Bayh-Dole expressly exempts
from its provisions in section 212.
So the notion that Cetus somehow has lost
the private right to the invention conceived using its
proprietary materials and information simply by the
subsequent use of an unknown amount of Federal funds,
that that works as a divestiture -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You were here,
Mr. Fleming, when I asked Mr. Ayer about that -
MR. FLEMING: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not -- so that the
federally funded project existed at Stanford before
Dr. Holodniy ever went to Cetus?
MR. FLEMING: This, Justice Ginsburg, is a
question that was raised in front of the Federal
Circuit. The Federal Circuit didn't reach it. It is
open on any remand. Of course, we don't think there
should be a remand, but it's certainly not before this
Court. But to answer the question, here's the record on
this point. The salary was not paid by NIH grants. It
was paid by a National Research Service Award that is
exempted. The grants were never produced. The grant
titles, on their face, do not apply to the work that was
done at Stanford. One of them deals with establishing a
center for AIDS research. Of course, this is work that
was not done at the Stanford Center; it was done at
Cetus.
The second one deals with AIDS clinical
trials, and it's undisputed that there were no clinical
trials at Cetus. The clinical trials only happened when
Dr. Holodniy went back to Stanford. Dr. Merigan's
declaration, which Mr. Ayer referenced on JA98, says
only that Dr. Holodniy's research at the lab at Stanford
was covered by Bayh-Dole Act. It says nothing about the
work at Cetus.
And if there was any doubt, Stanford argued
repeatedly to the Federal Circuit that the federally
funded research started in 1990, and this issue was
decided on summary judgment against Roche when all
factual inferences should have taken in our favor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
MR. FLEMING: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Ayer, you have
two minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. AYER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. AYER: Thank you, Your Honor.
The -- I think the place to start here is
with the fact that Congress, faced with a history under
which the Federal government had taken ownership
outright of federally funded inventions in approximately
80 percent of the cases, enacted a statute to change
that because the government wasn't any good at getting
the stuff developed. And so they -- they defined the
coverage in terms of -- to cover these two phrases,
inventions of the contractor.
There is no question, if you look at section
200 on 1A of the blue brief, you will see in the middle
of this initial policy and objective section a reference
to what they thought they were talking about. At the
very bottom of that page, on the bottom line, they talk
about ensuring that inventions made by nonprofit
organizations and small business organizations. That's
the universe they wanted to cover. The same words -
"inventions made by those organizations" -- are in the
heading of the regulations, and they appear elsewhere
throughout the regulations. So they meant to cover the
universe of inventions that those institutions create.
We talked earlier about the word "retain."
The word "retain" cannot, consistent with its usage in
202(d), mean that whoever is retaining it must have
owned it before they started, because it's a hundred
percent clear, just from thinking about the statute and
from reading page 38 of the red brief, that when an
inventor is allowed to be considered for retention of
title, he never has ownership of it. And so the word
"retain" can't mean that.
What does the word "retain" mean? I would
submit the word "retain" means what it often means. It
means that sometimes in a situation, someone is allowed
to continue holding something subject to conditions that
may change, and perhaps in spite of realities that make
you think that's surprising. For example, a parent may
be allowed to retain custody after a disputed custody
hearing. That's a temporary thing, perhaps. The court
may allow it to change.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
MR. AYER: Thank you, Your Honor.
(Whereupon, at 12:08 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
45:14 agreed 22:20,21 answer 15:6 8:8,17,18 13:19 29:15,16 31:5,9
agreement 4:1 26:13 34:17 14:16,19 17:21 31:21 32:7,22
58:14 22:18,18,23 47:24 55:17 56:18 34:6 37:8,13,25
50:14 32:6,16,18,21 27:19 arranged 53:20 41:14,15,21
39:2 52:4 53:7 10:1 53:23 53:10 54:1
10:15 14:1 18:16 24:12 appendix 5:9,15 array 15:9 35:15 20:2 22:5 25:17
16:16,16 25:25 34:24 10:1 52:13 article 5:7,8 26:11 34:14
20:7 21:10 39:14 applicable 10:25 aside 23:8 35:3 36:17 45:8
27:7,15 agrees 7:19 38:22 asked 55:7 45:11
34:1,5,7 16:18 50:23 application 8:1 asking 23:22 assigns 7:20
35:13 51:9 18:22 20:25 assay 5:11 53:19 15:22 29:14
38:4,16 ahead 36:15 21:14,17 54:17 assays 52:22 32:21
41:10,16 AIDS 5:17,18 applies 16:19 assign 7:19 9:4,6 assistance 26:20
45:7,9,21 55:23 56:1 17:13 31:6 47:7 9:10,16 15:3 Association
48:22 49:4 Air 31:25 47:7 21:15 22:7,11 28:24
51:21 AL 1:8 apply 6:20 7:24 22:14,19 23:3,3 assume 7:16
Alice 53:2 38:20 46:4 24:20,24 25:7 29:23
49:15,20 50:7 approaches 36:9 37:1,3,4,13,22 22:4 25:17
allowed 57:23 39:18 38:24 39:14,24 30:3,9 35:9
50:20 American 28:25 areas 47:1 assignment 3:24 assured 35:9
28:2,13 amicus 1:21 2:7 19:19 28:8 8:21 9:16 12:18 attempt 21:2
35:7 17:22 23:23 argued 15:15 15:13 18:17 Attorney 28:16
4:12 6:20 7:12 31:19 32:4,9,10 32:14 33:7,8 Chief 3:3,9 12:7
16:3 26:5 10:5,15 15:10 33:13,16 40:5 39:18 40:3 46:8 17:19,24 18:1
50:13 19:7 20:7 24:5 40:15,20,23 51:1 58:11,13 25:3 26:25 27:5
27:7,22 28:15 46:17,18,21,24 17:8 21:9 29:11 31:11,13,14
40:18 41:10,16 Breyer's 42:20 categorically 6:5 41:20 42:8,13
Bayh-Dole-rel... 30:9 31:25 CC 53:4 56:16 58:10
4:6 5:3 beginning 22:25 51:3 57:6,22 55:23,24 Circuit 9:3 23:1,5
7:2,21 8:11 26:5 briefing 39:19 cert 39:15,16 28:1 33:17,20
9:2,12 behalf 1:17,20 briefs 23:23 certain 7:13 12:2 36:24 38:14
12:11 1:24 2:4,7,11 24:18 25:21 12:3 18:15 55:14,14 56:10
13:1,10 2:14 3:8 17:22 brings 29:20 28:14 50:10,24 Circuit's 9:7
15:5,24 27:4 56:19 built 53:2 certainly 19:20 24:13
17:2,7 beings 47:3 bulb 14:11 20:5,11,13,24 circumstance
55:7 56:5 believe 4:11 bulk 35:4 24:25 36:3,8 29:19
33:12 bunch 9:8 51:18 55:16 circumstances
benefit 41:4 49:9 Bureau 30:17 certainty 49:11 24:6
big 43:20 49:20 C 1:23 2:1,10 3:1 24:3,6 31:9 cited 29:11
billion 49:7 27:3 36:23 37:3,8,21 claim 3:23 20:21
29:20 bizarre 44:4 called 11:17 53:2,3,6,8,20 clarify 34:8
56:4 black 40:7,8 Caltech 36:13,16 54:4,6,10,20 clarity 49:10
board 1:3 3:4 careful 10:9,12 56:8 clauses 38:8
42:14 7:14 change 6:21 10:3 11:24
brand-new 46:1 10:23 11:4,6,23 27:10,15 45:18 46:2 49:4 53:18
22:25 23:21,25
15:14,23 comprehensive consistent 57:18 30:2 32:5 co-owns 51:4
43:23 3:11 constellation contributed create 21:25
21:25 context 7:12 convey 23:11 46:1 48:19
6:12,14,17 contract 23:9,25 53:23 curae 1:21 2:8
49:8 21:24 45:25 49:2 core 8:17 52:12 custody 58:7,7
52:19 28:15,15 35:10 correctly 33:6 D
11:17 3:17,20 4:4,9 15:3 data 52:24
26:23 Congress 7:11 13:7,8,12,14 counsel 17:19 dating 27:10
12:3 15:14 19:7 13:14 17:4,10 56:14 58:10 day 11:6,16
34:4 35:19 23:14,17,18 course 40:24 deal 5:4 42:4
43:20,24 44:20 34:9,14,16,22 court 1:1,14 3:10 dealing 7:25
24:3 48:21,24 49:13 42:22 47:2,8,22 17:25 19:20 deals 4:6 55:22
16:13 51:8,9 57:4 37:6 38:18 debt 52:9
consequence 35:18 45:10 44:18 45:16 decided 52:8
consider 17:9 contracts 18:9 54:20 55:17 decides 47:9
7:8,9 24:3 57:3 decisions 27:11
24:19,22 earlier 37:7 employment events 9:17
19:15 document 26:4 48:9,10,13 26:11 37:8 49:2
doing 10:7 42:11 elaborate 19:7 ensure 27:21 Excuse 16:23
54:13,14 employed 5:23 entered 5:25 31:1
21:3 22:10 DONALD 1:17 employee 3:25 entirely 19:10 exempts 54:24
30:21 2:3,13 3:7 4:3 6:13,23,24 45:25 exercises 22:13
36:1,1 56:18 8:22 9:22 11:5 entities 26:22 exist 14:6 39:7
50:4,10 door 11:6 16:2 22:12 30:22 47:4 existed 55:10
19:5,14 56:9 29:8,12 30:1 entitled 22:1 exists 24:21
53:25 54:11,20 10:17,24 13:9 32:24 39:12
33:18 drafter 38:11 30:16,20,21,22 essentially 8:12 explicitly 29:24
draw 4:25 39:24 43:17 23:11 31:3 expressly 45:22
10:4 feels 51:12 55:7,8,12 56:15 39:21 40:7 government 3:17
27:25 39:6 fellow 11:15 flow 52:18 3:21 5:25 7:18
41:9,14 felt 21:1 51:21 footnote 5:9 G 15:20 16:9 18:4
43:9 Fenn 42:16 37:18 G 3:1 18:9,24 20:1
fide 7:22,24 Force 31:25 general 1:19 22:1 25:2,13,16
32:9,10 fields 38:20 form 39:23 24:10 28:16 29:5,5,6,14,17
fight 40:10 formation 22:11 44:11,13 45:2 29:22 30:10,12
53:18 forth 3:11 15:23 getting 10:10 31:4,5,22,23
findings 54:19 free 52:18 53:5 36:19 37:11,21 48:8 49:22
finished 31:14 frolic 52:8 55:6,9,12 51:12,15,20,23
5:25 15:6 19:2,12 40:10 22:8 26:1 27:19 8:18 13:24 14:8
9:3,7 30:7 40:11 50:2 full 12:18 31:21 32:11 18:2 24:8 34:2
14:7 17:9 50:2 fund 20:2 43:10 36:7 51:9 43:25
20:1,8 Fleming 1:23 43:12 given 16:8 27:15 government-fu...
21:22,24 2:10 27:2,3,5 funded 4:10,16 34:18 16:1
23:1,5 27:23 28:11,21 5:2,11,19,24 gives 50:22 government-wi...
25:16 30:8 31:1,13,16 8:21 9:22 10:4 52:23 18:13
28:1,2 31:20 32:8,12 10:19,20 28:19 giving 51:20 grant 17:10
29:6 32:19,23 33:7 28:19 34:2 go 12:3,4 16:23 20:11 49:19
34:9,11 33:11,15,23 40:17 41:5 43:9 28:21 36:15 54:23 55:20
36:24 34:7,17 35:5,19 43:16 44:10 44:17,17 54:8 grants 5:12
43:17 36:3,8,16 37:5 49:14,18,19 goes 11:11,11 25:18 55:18,20
45:10 37:24 38:13,23 50:1 55:10 29:13 38:14 great 23:23
49:19 39:4,8 40:1,15 56:11,24 41:24 50:2 greater 36:5
40:21 41:6,9,13 funding 3:14 4:1 going 9:19 10:17 guess 40:13
54:14 41:19 42:7,12 4:22,22 18:16 11:15 12:9 13:4 42:20
42:23 43:5,11 48:7 49:7 54:15 15:20 20:2 guidelines 25:22
43:14,20,22 funds 20:8,10,11 27:19,21 28:15
8:21 45:12 46:16,19 future 7:5,5,7 8:3 42:10 hand 34:9
10:19 46:23 47:5,16 8:25 23:6 24:20 good 11:10,11 handed 53:4
handled 12:1
35:5 15:24 16:7 individual 5:22 interpretation 26:19 27:12,21
17:17 33:8 31:4,5 41:1 39:14 34:5,22 36:11
41:10 Honor's 6:18,19 industry 31:6 invent 47:3 48:20 43:4 44:13,18
56:3 huge 15:20 44:8 45:13 invented 14:13 49:1 57:23
hundred 57:20 42:25 43:3 6:10,12,15 7:6 14:20 15:8
44:23 28:1 inferences 56:13 14:10,12 15:21 26:17 34:14
hypothetical information 16:2 17:8 21:16 44:8,22 50:10
I injunction 40:12 29:7,9 30:14 invited 52:2
33:8,20 immediate 9:15 14:6 15:12 52:12,14 53:10 IPA 34:13,18
important 23:1 intend 34:16 16:10 19:8 20:3 16:11 38:17
inconsistent 26:4 13:7 21:16,19 51:23 52:9 54:2 JID 5:8
31:8 37:9 4:7 39:12 41:24 inventor 3:18,24 Judge 38:15
52:2,6 indeterminate interesting 9:12 4:2,15 6:16 7:1 judgment 56:12
54:16 28:24 7:19,19,20 8:20 JUNIOR 1:4
indicate 4:8 interests 8:3 9:21 15:21 Justice 1:20 3:3
56:4 indicated 10:24 12:8,24,25 14:8 16:19 17:11,14 3:9 4:2,18 5:20
56:6 indifferent 19:11 40:7 43:25 44:1 21:18,18 22:7 8:7,14 9:2 10:6
13:5,16 26:13 43:19,23 lead 35:12 L-I 33:10 Merigan's 56:4
15:17,25 44:6 45:6 learn 53:21 middle 57:6
17:1,6,19 Kennedy 7:16 leave 44:20 M millions 11:25
18:7,23 8:7,14 23:19 leaving 23:8 49:1 making 9:14 16:5 mind 22:13
20:9,18 29:21 left 19:10,17 27:20 41:24 mine 21:4
22:3,16 kept 35:6 36:10 43:20 MALCOLM minutes 56:17
23:19,19 kind 5:25 21:21 45:25 54:20 1:19 2:6 17:21 MIT 36:13,16
25:14,21 40:13 52:7 legal 29:18 manner 26:18 39:11
27:5 knew 10:3 legally 21:1 march 14:3 Mitchell 39:10
28:3 know 8:4 9:13,18 legislative 46:5 marched 52:14 Molecular 1:7
29:20 10:21,22 11:4 LELAND 1:3 march-in 51:11 3:5
30:8,24 12:20 23:7 24:9 letting 34:24 MARK 1:23 Monday 1:11
27:23 28:11,12 let's 6:10 7:17 2:10 27:3 money 7:13 14:7
32:4,9,10 29:2 39:13 leverage 35:17 market 27:9 27:19 35:8
33:1,9 40:12 46:21,21 36:5 43:7 Massachusetts 48:11 50:22
47:20 52:11 Li 33:10,11,16 1:23 Montgomery
34:8,12 53:1 54:9,13,14 license 29:10 materials 52:20 33:10,10,11,16
35:6 knowing 8:4 30:4 51:11 54:8 53:24 55:3 months 4:24
licensing 35:23 matter 1:13 morning 3:4
L light 14:11 27:14 20:19 23:9
38:7 L 1:19 2:6 17:21 37:8 29:16,17 30:3 N
39:1,5 lab 5:13 53:3 likewise 3:22 33:4 43:7 58:14 N 2:1,1 3:1
40:5,15 56:6 limited 50:9 mattered 26:12 named 53:3
41:7,8 lack 49:10,10 limiting 14:7 matters 47:13 narrowing 13:19
lacks 8:24 line 29:2 57:9 mean 12:8,14 13:22
Lang 53:2 litigated 28:12 14:9,10,16 15:4 narrows 13:23
language 9:4 little 24:21 47:11 16:14,20 17:15 NASA 46:15
44:6 24:17 47:14 20:10 22:9,17 49:3
large 41:2 lodge 51:3 22:25 28:4,23 National 54:23
46:9 laudable 27:7 long 14:19 26:10 30:14 38:21 55:19
Laughter 48:3 long-settled 39:13 40:8 natural 24:19
47:6,17 law 7:25 10:25 27:14 43:18 44:13 nature 44:21
48:2,4,18 11:1 13:3,6 long-standing 47:13,15,15 necessarily
50:7 15:21 16:6 22:5 27:10 48:16,16 57:19 21:10 22:12
23:10 24:4 look 6:3 9:25 57:25 58:1 necessary 18:21
53:6,15 25:22 29:18 29:5 36:6 41:23 meaning 15:3 18:22 19:2 25:1
55:6,9,12 33:4 34:20 57:5 16:11 27:16 25:18
36:12 37:14 loosely 6:5 means 8:24 need 11:12 30:6
38:19,20,22 loses 38:10 14:25 16:22 34:18 38:5 44:7
44:19 45:4,18 lot 16:12 24:17 58:2,3 49:7,16 52:3
49:12 48:11 meant 13:6 57:15 needed 15:23
24:9 lawyer 12:9 53:17 negotiate 12:17
38:3 15:21 30:15 49:12,24 54:17 26:11 28:17
28:12 48:2 P 43:25 44:2,3 placed 22:22
54:15 omit 34:15 P 3:1 51:4 52:15 plainly 5:4
57:24 ones 13:14 page 2:2 5:8 17:3 patient's 52:25 play 7:9
55:18 opinion 10:2 pages 5:5 9:25 54:9 plenty 37:15 49:2
51:4 opportunity paid 29:6,22 49:22 pocket 35:7
20:6 paid-up 51:10 PCR 52:11 15:7 19:19
3:7 17:21 27:3 paramount 7:10 penultimate 46:22,24 47:18
57:10 21:23 29:18 parent 58:6 people 11:12 points 24:18
50:6 32:13 44:7 part 4:16 5:17,17 41:11 policies 10:13,18
53:21 30:7 56:25 57:21 policy 8:10 10:23
38:7 14:24 15:1 26:2 party 29:15,15 21:13,15 40:11 possible 32:1
outcome 4:12 42:19 petition 9:25 practical 20:19
51:7,7 outset 13:21 patent 7:20 8:1,1 Petitioner 1:5,18 10:16 25:6
owned 57:20 14:13 15:21 1:22 2:4,8,14 48:25 54:7
25:17 public 8:10 29:16 reading 23:14 19:16 20:16
produced 14:6 purchaser 7:22 realities 58:5 32:6 45:9 57:14
36:16 professors 36:2 purported 27:15 26:12 29:23 regulatory 31:3
39:11 prohibit 24:5 purpose 34:7 reason 11:14 relationship 34:8
4:16,22,23 5:2 45:23 34:1 36:24 49:1
16:1 20:2 55:10 put 11:16 48:18 50:16,18 40:22,23
promised 21:15 quantitate 53:19 reassign 32:13 remaining 56:17
property 39:6,6 47:15,17 53:15 recognize 44:19 report 28:16
51:15 proprietary questionable reconsider 38:18 representations
31:6 44:8 ProStar 39:15 questions 23:1 52:10 55:17 23:16
49:2,8 protect 34:2 40:16,21 red 17:12 57:22 require 18:10,16
51:22 43:24 52:4 54:6 quid 50:21 reduces 6:12 18:18,24 19:16
protected 39:22 quite 15:7 43:8 refer 48:21 19:22 20:16
28:4 21:10 23:13 reflects 28:2 34:13 43:18
39:25 45:8,20 46:2 refuse 31:22 requirement
43:21 48:5,6 43:10,12 12:18 27:25
46:4 49:12 regulation 18:13 requirements
57:23 ruling 24:13 23:14 42:15 simply 15:13
9:24 10:4 Rich 38:15 54:25 57:5,7 29:13,25 31:1
12:1,1 rid 50:19 S sector 49:8 50:17 38:4 39:23 52:2
43:9 49:23 right 12:11 13:7 S 2:1 3:1 secure 34:6 52:8 54:16 55:3
54:23 13:18 16:2 23:9 salary 55:18 see 17:12 20:12 single 52:22
56:6 25:19,20 29:8 sample 38:8 40:6 57:6 situation 6:6,7
29:17 31:22 52:24,25 seek 34:14 45:10 11:12,21 30:10
44:4 46:18 47:9 sarcastic 47:14 seeks 32:4 42:12 49:14
36:2 51:18 53:25 satisfaction 52:9 Senator 40:24,25 situations 35:25
rights 3:12,15,19 24:7 35:2 slip-up 11:15
13:9 51:11,20,25 saying 9:4 35:2 54:1 sole 3:23
24:20 river 12:24 says 3:18 11:1 series 14:1 Solicitor 1:19
33:19 RNA 52:21 12:3 14:10,24 serious 47:15 somebody 6:1
43:25 ROBERTS 3:3 15:25 17:4 seriously 15:15 14:22 28:8 39:2
12:7,12,22 13:5 21:11,24 22:6 Service 54:24 40:9 48:17
2:11 27:4 31:11,14 35:12 45:22 48:5 15:22 16:4 sorry 17:5 31:13
41:18,20 42:8 Scalia 5:20 6:21 sets 3:11 44:12 46:23
26:14 42:18 43:2 51:6 13:16 15:17,25 settled 37:15 Sotomayor 4:2
4:20 51:1 56:12 43:10,11,12 shelves 27:8 34:12,17,21
15:2,4 rogue 52:7 Scalia's 45:16 shortly 12:10 44:16 45:5 53:6
royalties 25:9 Science 28:25 show 10:5 44:18 53:15,22
23:12 26:18 35:1,4 scientific 53:17 showed 52:10 sound 37:12
26:19 36:7 42:6 scientist 4:21,23 showing 21:7 sounding 47:14
48:15,16 royalty 54:9 5:1 9:4 shown 34:19 44:6 sounds 22:4
rule 14:20 15:8 scientists 52:19 45:1 so-called 15:10
27:10,14 29:6 scope 54:16 side 13:12 14:10 speak 6:4
57:19 46:2,8 49:10,17 36:25 37:22 signed 11:5 54:1 44:19
23:16 rules 32:6 section 16:15 simple 23:21,25 3:18 4:7 5:6,9
22:6
15:12 13:10 19:3,13 38:2 54:12 54:11 47:3,8 48:10
38:24 19:24 23:18 subsidy 50:5 taken 52:1 56:13 49:6 51:14,15
28:7 29:23 30:2 substantial 19:5 56:23 think 3:24 6:3 7:2
52:21,23 49:3,21,22 sufficiently 40:17 43:6 57:8 30:11 33:15,16
4:23 5:14 steps 52:14 54:16 taxpayer 41:5 43:18 45:15
Stewart 1:19 2:6 suggested 5:22 taxpayers 49:23 46:6 47:25 53:6
8:22 17:20,21,24 suggestion 9:9 49:25 50:1,1 55:15 56:21
18:7,13 19:1 suggests 18:1 tech 35:23 58:6
12:16 20:5,13,23 21:5 summary 56:12 technique 52:11 thinking 43:24
22:18 21:9 22:9,20 supervisor 53:16 technology 26:21 57:21
24:2 27:19 23:8 24:1,9,16 supporting 1:21 49:8 third 3:16 29:14
36:18,20 25:20 26:3 27:1 2:8 17:23 18:5 tell 7:16 8:5 29:15 32:5,21
37:2,18 28:4 35:6 43:6 18:6 12:20 33:3,21 39:22
41:14 stores 52:20 supports 30:12 temporary 58:8 51:25
48:15 Storey's 39:9 suppose 5:21,21 ten 54:13 third-party 41:1
51:4 53:1 straightforward 5:22 12:14 term 34:15 42:14
27:16 supposed 9:18 terms 4:12 39:16 Thomas 14:12
55:10,22 strong 29:22 12:15 32:11 46:20 48:13 14:13
56:4,6,9 strongest 29:4 48:6 50:20 57:3 thought 13:5
54:10 14:18 46:8 17:19 26:25 thousand 54:13
subject 17:8,8 sure 16:13 27:21 56:20 58:10,12 46:16 47:20
27:12 51:11 42:5 19:2,4 26:14 5:1 7:8 8:21
56:11 submissions 58:6 thing 9:12 11:10 17:18 23:4
23:22 system 36:9 45:2 11:10,11 13:22 36:25 37:9,22
7:11,12 37:20 39:17 35:13 36:19 title 3:19,20,22
12:9 58:2 T 48:8 52:22 54:9 8:25 10:8,24
13:6 submitted 58:11 T 2:1,1 58:8 11:1 13:25
17:22 58:14 table 43:21 things 7:3,13 14:20,25,25
subsequent 55:4 take 3:19,20,22 14:4,15,17,18 15:8,13,19 16:9
48:16
18:17 35:21,23 50:17 53:11 23:10 24:4 wind 32:2
22:2 underlaid 35:10 university's 25:10 47:6 wins 40:11
underlay 28:14 18:17 25:11 vigorously 19:20 wiped 48:25
27:12 underlies 30:9 26:20 violation 32:20 wise 10:16
29:24 52:5 unknown 52:24 virtually 11:4 wish 39:17
34:16,25 understand 53:10 55:4 virtue 13:15 wished 38:18
44:7,9 11:12 19:25 unpublished vision 19:6 word 13:16 14:10
47:20 31:19 33:16 visit 11:15 53:20 15:2,4 16:11,12
50:10,23 understanding unwise 11:10 visitor's 11:17 16:21 57:17,18
10:16 11:8 upfront 43:13 void 29:15 30:3 57:24 58:1,2
53:24 unfortunately U.S.C 7:23 21:11 W work 4:16,21 5:8
uniform 34:10 V want 6:4 11:9,23 6:7 9:23 10:4
universities 10:6 variation 6:18 Washington 1:10 20:3 42:22
14:1,8,15 48:11 50:3,5 versus 49:18 49:13 written 5:8 49:4
22:10 university 1:4 vest 34:16 46:20 ways 42:24 50:7 wrong 23:9 36:20
56:17 57:3 4:5 6:9,11,13 vested 10:8 51:19
45:14 20:1 22:16 25:4 Y
24:14 25:6,8
27:22 30:5 46:1,8 47:18 25:4 27:19 39:5 Yale 42:17
35:8
43:4
48:14
41:10
46:7
20:10 35 7:23 21:10
1:5 3:4 51:2
17:12 57:22
57:6 4
49:25 47 45:3
1:15 3:2
21:11 5
58:13 5 14:2
5:9 55 52:13
9:25 56 2:14
2:8 57 52:13
9:25
38:17
14:2
28:17 35:10
10:1
10:2
11:7
56:11 7
9:17 7 14:2
38:3
56:25
9:17 11:18 53:4
57:6 9
45:21 9 4:24
1:11 9a 17:3,5
14:2 98 5:15
48:22 99 5:15
16:15,25
23:14
48:23
5:5 10:5
54:25
5:5 10:5
7:23,25
2:11
