IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
RUSSELL BRUESEWITZ, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 09-152
WYETH, INC., FKA WYETH :
LABORATORIES, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 12, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:00 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioners.
KATHLEEN M. SULLIVAN, ESQ., New York, New York; on
behalf of Respondents.
BENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as Amicus Curiae, Supporting
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
KATHLEEN M. SULLIVAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 25
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
BENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ.
On behalf the United States,
as Amicus Curiae, Supporting Respondents 44
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:00 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument this afternoon in Case 09-152, Bruesewitz v.
Wyeth.
Mr. Frederick.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. FREDERICK: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
This case involves a vaccine designed in the
1940s that was administered to Hannah Bruesewitz in
1992, some 30 years after scientists discovered a safer
way to design the pertussis component of the DTP
vaccine. The Third Circuit held that the Bruesewitzes
could not pursue a design defect claim under State law
invoking the preemption principle in claiming that the
Vaccine Act of 1986 preempted the Bruesewitz's State
claim. That holding is in error for three reasons.
First, the court overlooked the numerous
provisions of the Act protecting manufacturers from
liability, but it did not expressly preempt design
defect claims.
Second, the court misconstrued the word
"unavoidable" in section 22(b)(1)'s Federal law defense.
And third, the court adopted a policy that
exposes children to unnecessary safety risks.
With respect to the first reason, in the
1986 Act Congress created a program, the vaccine
program, that was funded by surcharges on the vaccines
that users used, and out of that fund designed a program
to pay compensation to persons who were injured by
vaccine-related acts.
Congress also provided a mechanism for
exhaustion through the vaccine court program before a
person claiming injury could pursue a State law cause of
action. In creating Federal law defenses to the State
law that was designed to govern such actions, Congress
established certain defenses, but all of those defenses
apply on a case-by-case basis. There are no absolute
provisions that preclude a State law claim. The Third
Circuit misunderstood that basic principle.
The defenses that the Vaccine Act created
for manufacturers includes such things as a regulatory
compliance defense for failure to warrant claims, a
learned intermediary doctrine that is instituted at a
national level, the imposition of comment k -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is -- I'm
sorry, Mr. Frederick. What's the point that you are
trying to make? That because there are a whole bunch of
provisions designed to help manufacturers, that this one
can't possibly also be designed to help manufacturers?
MR. FREDERICK: My point is that when one
looks at the specific language of 22(b)(1) against the
backdrop of these other provisions, it's clear what
Congress was intending was to enact a national defense,
but not to displace State law completely. And the
question presented is whether, on a case-by-case basis,
the design defect claims that had been brought by the
Bruesewitzes are displaced as a matter of law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought
the argument would go the other way: That because they
set up a compensation scheme, that was a good sign that
they didn't want to allow State law claims.
MR. FREDERICK: And if one looks,
Mr. Chief Justice, at sections 21, 22, and 23 of the
Act, what 21 provides is that the Claimant can elect not
to accept the vaccine court judgment. Section 22
provides the standards of responsibility, and section 23
provides the mechanisms for trial of the State law
claim. And 23(e) provides that the evidence of the
vaccine table and what happens in the vaccine court
shall not be admissible in the State law claim.
JUSTICE ALITO: Section 22(b)(1) refers to
side effects that were unavoidable even though the
vaccine was properly prepared and was accompanied by
proper directions and warnings.
If the term "unavoidable" was intended to
carry its ordinary meaning, what need was there for the
rest of that language: "Even though the vaccine was
properly prepared and was accompanied by proper
directions and warnings"? If it was improperly prepared
or didn't have the proper directions and warnings, then
the side effects are avoidable. So that language is
surplus, isn't it, if "unavoidable" really means
unavoidable?
MR. FREDERICK: What Congress was intending
to do, Justice Alito, was, with the word "unavoidable,"
to use a word that had a settled meaning in the common
law. And that settled meaning referred to the design of
the product in light of the current state of scientific
knowledge. That grew directly from comment k, the
section 402A of the restatement of torts.
And in comment k, which tracked the
structure of the restatement provision itself, the
general rule for the restatement was strict liability
for dangerous products, quote, "although the drug is
properly manufactured or properly warned against."
JUSTICE ALITO: But isn't it true that at
the time, there was a distinct minority view that you
could not recover for design defects for vaccines?
MR. FREDERICK: There certainly was a
debate. The majority view, however, was to adopt
comment k as a defense to strict liability claims on a
case-by-case basis. And the cases that we've set forth,
I think, illustrate that, even the cases that the other
side cites. Several of them had been overruled by the
time the 1986 act took effect and there was a decided
shift in favor in the case-by-case application of
comment k. And in the 1987 report, Congress made very
clear it intended to preserve that case-by-case
approach. That is set forth at page 50 of our brief,
Justice Alito.
So when one looks at both the words that
Congress used in 22(b)(1), the debates that occurred,
and the committee reports that explained what Congress
is intending here, we believe the intent is unmistakably
clear to adopt comment k as a defense to -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you haven't really
answered Justice Alito's question as to why the later
language is not surplus. If indeed it bears the
technical meaning you say that it -- that it bears, that
later language is surplus.
MR. FREDERICK: It is not surplus if one
reads comment k and understands what the drafters there
were intending to get at, which was: If, based on
current scientific knowledge, the risks are unavoidably
unsafe, meaning there is no way in science we can design
a safer product, there will be a defense to a claim of
strict liability unless or provided that the product is
properly manufactured and warned against. This was a
proviso that was intended to ensure that the focus be
kept on the unavoidable, unsafe aspects of the design of
the vaccine.
Now, the other side's view takes other words
of 22(b)(1) and renders them surplusage. And I am
looking now at page 19A of our reply brief, where we set
forth the statutory language, if you want to follow
along here. What the other side's view is that after
the word "if" following the date of October 1, 1988 -- I
am at page 19A of the reply brief, the addendum.
Under their view, all of the words that
follow the word "if" and through "even though" becomes
surplusage, because under their reading the manufacturer
is relieved of all liability if, quote, "the vaccine was
properly prepared and was accompanied by proper
directions and warnings," and renders the entire concept
of unavoidability surplusage. So our view is that what
these -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Say that again. I don't
follow it. Tell me that again.
MR. FREDERICK: Under their --
Justice Scalia, looking at (b)(1) on page 19A following
the date October 1, 1988.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. FREDERICK: Under their view, after the
word "if," the phrase "the injury or death resulted from
side effects that were unavoidable even though" is
surplusage, because in their view of the statute
Congress created a complete exoneration from liability
if the vaccine was properly prepared and was accompanied
by proper warnings. They took the concept of
unavoidability completely out of the statute.
And the word "unavoidable" had a settled
meaning. There were numerous cases that had construed
that meaning in light of the 20-year history of
Restatement section 402A. So -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I take it that the
government is urging that "unavoidable" means
unavoidable in the vaccine that has gained FDA approval.
MR. FREDERICK: Justice Ginsburg, that
position is incorrect. And there is empirical evidence
indicating that the manufacturers, Lederle's Mr.
Johnson, testified that the problem with the '86 version
of the statute was that it allowed for design defects to
go forward. And he urged there to be a regulatory
compliance defense.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you are asking us
to interpret this statute in light of his testimony at a
hearing?
MR. FREDERICK: What I'm saying is that
Congress had choices, and one of the choices was to
adopt a regulatory compliance defense for design defect
claims, and it chose not to do that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems to me the
language supports the reading Justice Ginsburg has just
suggested, or the government has just suggested, with
the use of the word "the." It says the effects of the
vaccine were unavoidable, even though the vaccine was
properly prepared. Your position is, well -- the
question is whether it was unavoidable if you could have
prepared a different vaccine. But this says
"unavoidable, even though the vaccine."
MR. FREDERICK: Right. And it is preceded
by the word "if," Mr. Chief Justice. And if -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't see the word
"if."
MR. FREDERICK: It's right after the date,
1988. If the injury resulted from side effects.
So it is looking on a case-by-case basis in
that context, whether the vaccine created the injury or
side effect that is being complained of.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Frederick, I have this
problem with -- with your interpretation. As -- as has
been said, the government interprets "unavoidable" to
mean unavoidable with respect to the vaccine that has
been approved.
If it doesn't mean that, if it simply means
unavoidable with some other vaccine, you could always
avoid them if you have a vaccine that is significantly
less effective. I mean, what other vaccine are you
comparing it with?
MR. FREDERICK: Justice Scalia, let me try
to clear this up in this way. All of these vaccines are
approved by the FDA. And the question is whether you
give a presumption of design correctness for all time
based on the FDA's approval of that vaccine. This
vaccine was approved in -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that, but the
plaintiff comes in and says, Look, you could have
eliminated this, this, and this, and these side effects
would not occur. Of course the vaccine would only be
effective in 75% of the cases, but nonetheless, it was
avoidable.
MR. FREDERICK: And that's why the concept
of unavoidability as a defense always rested on the
current State of scientific knowledge. In the 1960s,
Lederle signed -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that doesn't answer
my question. I acknowledge it rests on current
scientific knowledge, but current scientific knowledge
would enable you to design a drug that does not have
these side effects even though it's significantly less
effective, and there is no criterion as to how much less
effective it has to be to qualify and so forth, whereas
the government's interpretation of the word ties it to
a -- to a particular vaccine.
MR. FREDERICK: Justice Scalia, the way
these cases were construed, and we have cited them in
our reply brief, the standard was whether or not it was
as safe as a feasible alternative but was -- sorry, as
efficacious but safer as a feasible alternative. That's
how the courts -- the State court -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It has to be just as
effective?
MR. FREDERICK: It has to be efficacious.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just as effective?
MR. FREDERICK: Sure. I will concede that
point.
The problem here was that an efficacious
design existed as of the 1960s and the internal
documents indicated that Lederle -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You keep saying that.
But didn't I understand correctly that that drug was
withdrawn from the Japanese market in which it had
originally been -
MR. FREDERICK: No. Let me clarify.
There are two theories by which there was a
design defect claim. One concerned a product by Eli
Lilly called Tri-Solgen. That was a split cell vaccine
that was developed and sold in the 1960s. It was
demonstrated to have far less serious effects for
encephalopathy and other residual seizure disorders and
problems.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Was it proven that it
was as effective?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes, it was, and it had 65%
of the market.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And could it be used for
all five -- there are five inoculations in this series.
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And only one of them was
not approved for the first three.
MR. FREDERICK: That's the second one for
Justice Sotomayor. This was an acellular technique that
had been studied in the United States in the 1950s and
eventually was developed by the Japanese in the 1980s.
That acellular technique was eventually approved by the
FDA in the mid-1990s and is now common in all of the
three-part VDAP vaccines that are currently on the
market.
Our point is that the scientists literally
knew about that acellular technique. They were
beginning to do tests, but they didn't aggressively do
it for economic reasons. And that has never been -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If there is a safer
alternative, it must be pursued regardless of cost?
MR. FREDERICK: No, there is a
reasonableness standard. The standard of due care that
State law and tort has always had is: What does a
reasonable manufacturer do in the same or similar
circumstances? But that is a question, ultimately, of
fact, whether or not the economics -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In a question of fact in a
case-by-case determination in every State, the
manufacturers would probably be worse off under your
approach than if they didn't have the law at all,
because the law seems to at least qualify section -
comment k.
MR. FREDERICK: Justice Kennedy, that was
the whole design of the vaccine program, because if you
channelled most claims into something that the
manufacturers didn't have to defend against or pay the
judgments of, the thought was that the vast, vast
majority of people would never go to State court. And
it would only be in those rare circumstances like the
problem we have here where the vaccine court awards
nothing that the Bruesewitzes even had to go to State
court.
Had they filed their claim a month earlier
when residual seizure disorder was still on the vaccine
table, we wouldn't be here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why was it taken off?
MR. FREDERICK: There was a debate in the
scientific community. The Institute of Medicine
believed that residual seizure disorder was medically
proved to be a causative factor from the pertussis
component of the DTP. There was a disagreement of -- by
folks in the Secretary of Health and Human Services as
to whether or not that was sufficient to justify legal
cause.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so didn't the special
master find what -- in the compensation proceeding that
causation had not been proved?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes. And it was a
proceeding, Justice Ginsburg, that had allowed for no
discovery against the drug manufacturer.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, you -- you say that
in court you could prove causation, since you had
discovery, although you couldn't prove it before the
special master because discovery was very limited?
MR. FREDERICK: That's our submission. And
that was the design that Congress intended. That's why
what happens in the vaccine court under section 23(e),
as a matter of law, is inadmissible in a subsequent
State court action.
JUSTICE BREYER: And can you -- maybe this
is a good point, but I would like to know what your
response is. I'm not asking you in either a hostile nor
friendly way.
The -- assume for the moment that the
language, I cannot find clear one way or the other. So
I think it's ambiguous. At that point, what is your
response, on that assumption that this brief on the
other side from the American Academy of Pediatrics and
21 other physician and public health organizations -
what the pediatricians here say is that, if you win,
we're turning this over to judges and juries instead of
the FDA and other specialized agencies, that the result
could well be driving certain vaccines from the market,
and basically, a lot of children will die. And that -
that's their claim.
And I think that their legal argument there
is that wasn't Congress's purpose. Congress's purpose
was the contrary.
So leaving the language out of it, I would
like you to respond to what I would call that
purpose-related, fact-related argument by these
particular people.
MR. FREDERICK: If I may, let me make two
points, Justice Breyer, the legal point and the policy
point.
The legal point is: This Court's cases make
clear that there is a clear statement principle. Before
Congress is presumed to have displaced State law, it
must act with a clear statement. And that is true in
the Eleventh Amendment context as well as the preemption
context. So if you conclude there is ambiguity, we
should win -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there is another case
on that where we are going to have to go into -- which
is, does that mean every bit of it has to be clear?
Does it mean the intent has to be clear? That's a
complicated area. But I will put that aside for the
moment.
MR. FREDERICK: Here, 22(a) answers that
question as a matter of law, because it says the State
law provides the general rule.
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. I've got -
MR. FREDERICK: Now, that's the legal point.
The policy point is that by channelling the vast
majority -- and the SG's brief says 99 percent of the
people who go through vaccine court accept the judgment
of the vaccine court.
And on the First Circuit, the Schaefer
decision -- which you wrote, Justice Breyer -- said that
even in the instances in which people lose in the
vaccine court, they may regard the hurdles and obstacles
of the State court process to be so great that they
don't bother to try. It's difficult to win these kinds
of cases in State court.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Explain why.
MR. FREDERICK: Because proving causation
and proving the availability, based on science, of an
alternative design is not something that is a relatively
easy thing to do.
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's -- that's why I
asked the question. Frankly, if I see the Academy of
Pediatrics telling me one thing, and I in an earlier
case wrote the other thing, I do tend to think I could
have been wrong.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: And that's -- that's why I
am asking you: Is that the best you can find on the
other side, namely something I once wrote in a case? Or
are there other -- are there other things?
(Laughter.)
MR. FREDERICK: It happened in the moment to
come to mind, Justice Breyer.
(Laughter.)
MR. FREDERICK: The point that I want to
make is that the threat of liability is only a realistic
one if there is a threat that there's actually going to
be payment at the end. And Plaintiffs do not bring
cases to lose; they bring cases if they have a
reasonable prospect of winning based on what the
evidence would show a design defect to be.
And so when Congress set up this system and
it exonerated the vaccine makers of 99 percent of all
cases that are going to go through this system claiming
defects or problems, if you ask manufacturers around the
country that you get a special defense against punitive
damages, you get a regulatory compliance defense for
failure to warn, you have to have a trifurcated
proceeding, and you are not going to have to pay damages
or defend the actions 99 percent of the time, most
manufacturers in the United States would take that
bargain.
And so the question -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It would depend, I
suppose, on what they thought the judgments were going
to be in the 1 percent of the time.
MR. FREDERICK: And -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It doesn't take too
many $60 million verdicts to make you come out on the
other side of your calculus.
MR. FREDERICK: And that's why, going back
to the wording of the statute, Mr. Chief Justice, in
section 23, where Congress said for someone who had
elected not to accept the judgment in 21, you get to go
to State court and try to prove your claim.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Anyone could go to the
State -- I mean, somebody who won in the vaccine court
could go to court on the argument that the amount was
insufficient, the amount of compensation.
There is -- there is no foreclosure of
anyone to come to court; is that right?
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. But you
have to fight through the defenses that Congress erected
in 22(b)(1), (b)(2), and (c), which are quite difficult
defenses.
JUSTICE ALITO: What would happen if a drug
manufacturer sought FDA approval of an alternative
vaccine and the injury occurred during the period while
that was under consideration by the FDA? That's -
that's just too bad?
MR. FREDERICK: A harder case, but not one
that couldn't be proved under State law. The negligence
inquiry would look into whether or not a reasonable
manufacturer would have tried earlier and more
aggressively to obtain FDA approval.
Here, we think we can meet that standard,
because we had a drug that was on the market, the split
cells Tri-Solgen, that was proved to be safer and just
as efficacious, and it had been on the market until
Wyeth took it off, after Wyeth concluded that when it
purchased the rights from Eli Lilly it couldn't
manufacture the vaccine Tri-Solgen in a way that it
would get it the profit stream that it wanted.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In the -- when it was -
when Tri-Solgen was owned by Lilly and you said that it
was approved and marketed, was that one available for
all five inoculations?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes. Yes, Justice Ginsburg.
That was used for all through the series for children's
vaccination for DTP.
And the problem here with the other side's
approach, fundamentally, is that not only does it render
part of 22(b)(1) surplusage, and not only does it ignore
the many benefits that manufacturers got, but at the end
of the day it allows for an exoneration from liability,
even for manufacturers who know there is a safer design
available.
And that fundamentally is something Congress
never would have imagined, that manufacturers would
invoke an immunity from suit, even when they knew -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does the secretary -- does
the secretary have the authority to -- to withdraw
certification on the ground that it is no longer safe,
fair, and potent?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes, Justice Kennedy. There
is -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You are assuming that the
manufacturer knows something that the secretary doesn't?
MR. FREDERICK: No. Our submission,
Justice Kennedy, is that for many vaccines there is no
safer alternative, and there could be no design defect
claim. But for those instances in which there is a
safer alternative, the burden under State law is for the
manufacturer to act reasonably in pursuing the safer
design, if that is available.
It's not -- there is no provision in the FDA
regulations or under statute for the FDA to engage in a
comparative safety analysis.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If the language -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there any provision
in the regulations that require a manufacturer to
withdraw a drug earlier than when the FDA tells them to?
MR. FREDERICK: Not that I'm aware of.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So this immunity would
come along until they go to the FDA and say, Well, we've
gotten enough incidents to prove -
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. And this
very vaccine, Justice Sotomayor, was taken off the
market in 1998. And the product that Wyeth used as the
substitute for it says in its package insert, this is a
safer vaccine than the Tri-Immunol that we have taken
off the market.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I'm not sure
that in most cases you are going to be able to tell
immediately -- you are marketing one vaccine and
something else is being tested or about to be approved,
or it's on the market -- that that's safer.
Particularly since you have to look not only at -
whatever -- injury and mortality rates, but also
efficaciousness -- or efficiency, I guess -- in terms of
the vaccine.
So you don't know right away. Somebody
comes in and says, Here's a different vaccine; your
vaccine causes one death every 10,000 doses, or whatever
it is. And the other says, This is better; it's one
death every 12,000 doses. You say, Well, but ours is
more efficient in stopping the vaccine.
Well, how much more efficient? Well, it
depends on the judgment of a jury.
MR. FREDERICK: And the manufacturers win
that case, probably, Mr. Chief Justice.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but you assume that
there is no clause or burden to the manufacturers who
defend these suits to assess settlement offers. This is
a -- this is a tremendous expense.
MR. FREDERICK: Only if you accept the -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It -- it may well be that
the manufacturer has to settle a meritorious case; we
all know that.
MR. FREDERICK: Yes. But, Justice Kennedy,
that's after an exhaustive process through which they
have gone through the vaccine program and the person is
dissatisfied with the remedy that's provided.
So in these vast majority of cases, unlike
drug cases where there is no channeling mechanism, here
the vaccine fund is designed to take care of the vast,
vast, vast majority of those kinds of claims. And it's
only in those rare circumstances where there would be a
State lawsuit.
If I could reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Frederick.
Ms. Sullivan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KATHLEEN M. SULLIVAN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MS. SULLIVAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Congress enacted the National Childhood
Vaccine Injury Act against the backdrop of a wave of
tort litigation that threatened to drive manufacturers
out of the business of providing the vaccine -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why didn't they make
the vaccine court exclusive? There is plenty of
administrative systems that make -- preclude State law
actions altogether and place you in administrative
proceedings. So if their intent was to drive out State
lawsuits, why not do that?
MS. SULLIVAN: Because, Justice Sotomayor,
the kind of lawsuits that caused Congress concern were
the very kind of lawsuits that are expressly preempted
by 22(b)(1), and that is design defect claims, which
have the exact problem that was just being discussed.
For a design defect claim, as Justice Scalia
pointed out, the challenge that is brought to the
vaccine that was approved by the FDA can be challenged
as less safe than some alternative vaccine, bounded only
by the imagination of the experts. It was those design
defect claims that were the problem. Congress
preserved -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, how -- couldn't they
have taken care of that with Daubert? I mean, won't
most of these cases get resolved on a motion for summary
judgment?
MS. SULLIVAN: Not design defect claims,
Your Honor. Just to go back to 1986 and what the crisis
was. As the 1986 House report makes clear, the
manufacturers were being driven out of the vaccine
business, imperiling the nation's design -- vaccine
supply by design defect claims that did survive summary
judgment. And that did lead to the danger, as
Justice Kennedy pointed out, of settlements. The key
point about protection -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Point me to the FDA
regulations or law where the FDA, in giving a license to
or permitting a new vaccine, actually looks at whether
that vaccine is the most efficacious way with the least
serious harm to the population. Is there a regulation
that requires that judgment by them before they issue
permission to market?
MS. SULLIVAN: There is not, Justice
Sotomayor. What the FDA is empowered by regulation to
decide under the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act is whether
the vaccine is safe and efficacious. Once approved -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. What is the
motivation? If there is no -- there's no approval
mechanism for the FDA to look at that issue, what is the
motivation for manufacturers to voluntarily remove a
drug that is causing harm to the public before the FDA
acts?
If they are completely immune under your
reading of this preemption statute, what motivates them
to act more quickly?
MS. SULLIVAN: The Act itself. But
section 27 of the Act -- let me just go back and
describe what Congress did in 1986. It said, We have a
crisis, and it created three things to solve the crisis:
A preemption provision that said, Let's end the design
defect claims that are causing the problem. Let's
provide --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Sullivan --
Ms. Sullivan, if Congress had wanted to do that, they
could have said simply that no vaccine manufacturer may
be held civilly liable if the vaccine is properly
prepared and accompanied by proper directions and
adequate warnings. That would have been the simplest
statement.
Congress didn't make that statement. They
were asked to amend the statute to make that statement,
and they didn't. I mean, if you wanted to make it clear
that there is no design defect liability, then say that:
No civil liability unless inadequately -- improperly
prepared, improper directions, or warnings.
What they -- the language that they used is
certainly, to say the least, confusing. This
unavoidable -- these side effects that were unavoidable.
Well, why did they need to put that in there if what
they were concerned with was to cut out liability for
design defects?
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Ginsburg, let's go
back to the text and put -- read the two clauses
together. And our main point here is, as Justice Alito
and Justice Scalia have already pointed out, the
Petitioners render the "even though" clause surplusage.
We read the two clauses together. And let's
read them together against the backdrop of the three
kinds of product liability claims that could be brought:
Design defect, manufacturing defect, and failure to
warn.
The -- the statute references two out of the
three. And we -- we believe that -- and the Government
believes that the reason that was done was to say that
the third omitted kind of claim, design defect claims,
were preempted. The two that were allowed -- and,
Justice Sotomayor, this is what makes it different from
straight pure administrative schemes -- this does
preempt defect claims, the omitted claim. It allows
manufacturing defect claims and it allows warning claims
subject to the presumption in 22(b)(2). Limited -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under your view, when does
the manufacturer have to come forward and acknowledge
that there is a defect in the design?
MS. SULLIVAN: Well, Justice Kennedy, the
manufacturer is subject to ongoing reporting
requirements under section 28 of the statute. And I
think that if you think there is ambiguity in the text,
as Justice Breyer suggests, we can go to the structure
of the statute. And let me just mention a number of
features of the statute -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you please just
answer that question? What is the motivation for the
manufacturer to either continue the testing of their
product and voluntarily stopping it if a better design
has been found by someone else or even an inducement for
them to find a better design if a competitor comes
around?
Because I don't see why they should stop
until they have caused as many injuries as they need to
before the FDA says stop.
MS. SULLIVAN: Well, Justice -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What is the inducement
for them to do it voluntarily?
MS. SULLIVAN: Yes. First of all, Justice
Sotomayor, Justice Kennedy is correct, the FDA can order
removal from the market.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I am not asking about
the FDA.
MS. SULLIVAN: But the reason why -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I said the
manufacturers' motivations.
MS. SULLIVAN: And -- and, Justice
Sotomayor, the reason why the FDA has never had to use
that nuclear option is that it -- it works closely with
manufacturers long before it needs to be used, and
that's because of the rest of the structure of the Act.
I would like to focus on what Congress did
in 1986 in addition to -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Before you get to
that, I think your answer to Justice Sotomayor's
question is: Nothing; the manufacturers have no reason
to take the vaccine off the market until the FDA tells
them to.
MS. SULLIVAN: That's not correct, Your
Honor. So the -- section 27. Section 27 distinguishes
vaccines from other drugs. Section 27 says that the
Secretary of Health and Human Services shall -- shall
have an affirmative mandate to promote safer vaccines
and to reduce the number of side effects.
And the Vaccine Act didn't just eliminate
design defects -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But if the manufacturer is
slow or remiss or negligent or willful in not giving the
information to the Government, there is nothing the
injured person can do. There is still complete
preemption, under your view?
MS. SULLIVAN: Of design defect claims,
Justice Kennedy, but not of warning claims. And it
will -- there are grave consequences if a manufacturer
withholds knowledge of adverse effects from the FDA.
Section 22(b)(2) --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does the victim of that
withholding have a private cause of action? I don't see
anything in this that would give them -
MS. SULLIVAN: There is not a freestanding
cause of action. But if you look at 22(b)(2), you see
that the manufacturer will lose his -- lose its
presumption that its warnings were correct. It will be
subject to warnings suits in State court if it withholds
information from the FDA without the benefit of the
presumption.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The warning -
MS. SULLIVAN: And if you look at -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The warning -- the
warning claims, the manufacturing claims, those are
always avoidable.
MS. SULLIVAN: Always avoidable. Exactly,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But -- so what can be -
the only thing that can be unavoidable is the design
defect.
MS. SULLIVAN: That's exactly right, Your
Honor. And that's how the text makes sense.
To go back to the text, the text says there
are two kinds of avoidable side effects: Side effects
that come from improper preparation -- well, of course
the manufacturer can avoid those; it can prepare the
vaccine better without contaminants -- and it can avoid
warning defects by changing the warning.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The warning doesn't have
to say, "Warning: We could make something better if we
wanted to."
(Laughter.)
MS. SULLIVAN: It does not. That's correct,
Your Honor. And that's because -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or there is something
better on the market than this that won't cause that.
MS. SULLIVAN: But look. Mr. Frederick has
told a story that perhaps has misled the Court into
thinking there was a safer vaccine in the 1980s. There
was not.
And just to be -- just to tell the story of
a success in the way that FDA worked with the scientific
community and the national Government worked with
manufacturers to produce a safer vaccine, it was the
Federal -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, can you -- can we
be concrete and concentrate on this Tri-Solgen, which,
according to Mr. Frederick -
MS. SULLIVAN: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- Eli was producing, and
it was available for all five inoculations. And then
Wyeth bought it, and then -
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Ginsburg, Tri-Solgen
was a split cell vaccine. It was manufactured and
produced by Lily in the 60s and withdrawn in the 70s.
But Mr. Frederick was incorrect that the Government ever
deemed it as effective and safer than the wholesale
vaccine, Tri-Immunol, that was administered in this
case.
If I could refer Your Honor to page 19 of
the Respondent's brief, we cite to 50 -- Federal
Register 51051 and 52. That's where the FDA
specifically determined that Tri-Solgen was not safer,
was not safer, than Tri-Immunol with respect to seizure
disorders or other severe effects. It simply may have
involved less local effects like fevers and rashes.
So there was never any government
determination that Tri-Solgen was safer. In fact,
Tri-Solgen came off the market. Why? Because the
section 27 worked, the Federal Government worked to
promote safer vaccines.
JUSTICE BREYER: How does it do that? Look,
I think a difficulty I have is this. Imagine vaccine X
saves 10,000 lives, but inevitably 20 children will be
killed. That's inevitable. Time period one.
Five years passes. The manufacturer now
realizes he could save three of those five people. All
right. Is there anything in the law that requires him
to tell the FDA that that is so?
MS. SULLIVAN: There is not anything that
requires him to tell the FDA that is so.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If there is
nothing that requires him to tell the FDA what comes
along, what I think your opponent is saying is at that
moment, it is no longer an unavoidable harm and there is
nothing in this statute that says that unavoidable
harms -- that avoidable harms are taken away from the
courts.
So what is your response to -- what is your
response to that? He's saying all the unavoidable ones
are taken away, but not the avoidable ones. And now we
have an example. So what is your response to that?
MS. SULLIVAN: That "unavoidable" in the
statute is a term of art. And to the extent that
comment k is relevant at all, Mr. Frederick says, "Oh,
Congress was adopting comment k, the majority view."
Well, first, there was not a majority view.
JUSTICE BREYER: If you want to read it
especially to mean unavoidable and avoidable. Let's
assume you are right about that, or let's assume it is
at least ambiguous. If that's so, then what is your
response to the question I raised before, that is: That
he says that if you allow judges and juries to decide
only the question of avoidability, there will not be the
harms that the childhood pediatricians thought there
would be, because most people will go to the courts -
to the vaccine court anyway. There are very few such
cases, and there will not be enough liability to drive
manufacturers from the market.
You heard him respond to that. What is your
response to that?
MS. SULLIVAN: First, there will be enough
liability to drive manufacturers from the market. Let
me correct some things that Mr. Frederick said that were
not true.
The vaccine court, 99 percent of those who
receive monetary judgments in vaccine court, the
administrative no fault system, do accept their award,
but what Congress was concerned about was those who lose
in the administrative system and then go take their
second bite at the apple in State court, whereas, as has
been mentioned, they are not bound by any findings in
the vaccine court. 23(b) says -
JUSTICE BREYER: That's a minor point, but I
thought if you went into the vaccine court you had to
sign something saying you weren't going to go into a
tort case. I'm wrong about that?
MS. SULLIVAN: No. You go into a vaccine
court and there is an exhaustion requirement. 22(b)(1)
must add something to the exhaustion requirement. We
say it adds an exemption preemption provision, but you
can elect at the end to take the judgement or not.
Those who get money in vaccine court, 99 percent take
it. What we are worried about is the 64 percent who
lose in vaccine court.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What do those 64 percent
do now? What is the percentage of those people who
actually go into court now?
MS. SULLIVAN: I can't answer that, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that because whatever
the percentage is, proving causation is never easy -
MS. SULLIVAN: That's true, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- for non-listed -
MS. SULLIVAN: But there are 5,000 claimants
in vaccine court now who claim there is a relationship
between the mumps, measles, and rubella vaccine and
autism. They have lost all six test cases and when the
individual cases are resolved, that is 5,000 potential
claimants in State court.
Congress was worried about episodic waves of
fear about vaccines leading to future litigation. They
took care of existing Claimants with vaccine injuries
back in 1986 with the compensation system. The reason
they put in 22(b)(1) was to prevent future litigation in
State court where manufacturers could be driven from the
market by the fear of liability that had in 1986
involved the withdrawal of insurance, the escalation of
insurance costs, the withdrawal of one manufacturer from
the vaccine market.
And today there are very few vaccine
manufacturers and the risk of the vaccine supply on
which the nation's protection from contagious disease
depends, it depends upon the existence of that stable
supply of vaccines.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If Congress were so
clear, as you are describing it, then why didn't it
adopt the provision that said failure to develop a safer
vaccine would not be grounds for liability?
MS. SULLIVAN: Your Honor, Justice Ginsburg,
I think you have to look to the rest of the structure of
the Acts to see what Congress did here. It did three
things.
It made vaccines quite different from other
drugs. And this is not a situation where the FDA has to
monitor 11,000 drugs, of which it wouldn't even care if
they came off the market. The government doesn't care
if -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it also was directed
to vaccines.
MS. SULLIVAN: That's right -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The failure to develop a
safer vaccine would not be grounds for liability, and
Congress didn't enact that.
MS. SULLIVAN: Your Honor, Congress enacted
a preemption provision that we think it was in the four
corners of the provision of 22(b)(1), "preempts design
defects." It has a carveout for the two kinds of suits
that are allowed, manufacturer and warning defects. The
clear holding of the rest of the text is that design
defect claims are precluded. Compensation makes sure
that people who do have injuries from vaccines are taken
care of.
The rest of the structure of the Act injects
the Federal Government into driving the vaccine
development process in a way that it does not for other
drugs. Congress wants people to take vaccines. It
wants us to inoculate all our children. It wants us to
have compensation to ensure people who are injured that
they can get some money to take care of their children's
disabilities.
But Congress wanted to make sure that it was
driving, that the Federal Government, the FDA, the
Centers For Disease Control, together with the AMA,
together with task forces, were driving research to make
safer vaccines.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You are making an
assumption that has a flawed premise, which is that
their only concern was protecting the manufacturers.
MS. SULLIVAN: Not at all, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It couldn't have been.
MS. SULLIVAN: They compensate the victims.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Not only do they
compensate victims, but they permitted victims to go
into State court.
MS. SULLIVAN: For manufacturing and warning
claims. For manufacturing and warning claims.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, no. That's your
assumption. My point is that if we are talking about
what the purpose was, you can't assume that -
MS. SULLIVAN: Two purposes: Compensation
and the protection of the vaccine supply. Justice
Sotomayor, the clearest way that I -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what you are
suggesting is there is no compensation for an injury
that was avoidable in its normal sense, which is -
MS. SULLIVAN: No -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If this drug had not
been sold and another drug had been used the person
would have avoided their injury.
MS. SULLIVAN: Well, there is no such drug
here. Acellular vaccine was not approved by the FDA for
use in infants under two until 1996. It was approved
for children over two in 1991. That's because in this
country, we require clinical studies that weren't
required in Japan a decade earlier to make sure that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It sounds to me that
you're going to win on non-summary judgment. I don't
see -- I do understand the cost of litigation. It can
be very, very onerous. So I'm not trying to minimize
it, but I do think that there's a whole lot of hurdles
in place before a plaintiff wins on one of these claims.
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Sotomayor,
manufacturing claims and warning claims are susceptible
to summary judgment. Design defect claims are not in
the same way. You are shadowboxing against an infinite
number of theories about how there could have been a
safer vaccine.
But the clearest way I can say why
Mr. Frederick's interpretation can't be right is: If
you concede at least one purpose was to protect
manufacturers, to protect the vaccine supply, in
addition to compensating the victims, Mr. Frederick's
reading of 22(b)(1) does not serve that purpose. He
reads 22(b)(1) to leave manufacturers in the exact same
place after the Act that they were before. Go to State
court. Try to show that there was -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They set up this whole
compensation scheme where everybody agrees -- I mean,
the manufacturers got this compensation scheme which
took most of the cases out of State court.
So to say they were left just like they were
before, before they were exposed to all these claims -
now it's only to a very small part of them.
MS. SULLIVAN: That's not quite right,
Justice Ginsburg. The Act allows all losers in vaccine
court to go to State court. There are 5,000 -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, yes. I got that
answer from Mr. Frederick before. But most of them
don't, because it's cheaper, faster, and working well.
MS. SULLIVAN: For vaccine court winners,
that's true. For vaccine court losers, the fear was
that these lawsuits would drive manufacturers out of the
market, even if the manufacturers could win in the end.
For a preemption provision to do any work,
it needs to attach at the beginning of the claim.
22(e), for example, refers to bringing an action.
22(b)(1), to do any work to protect manufacturers, has
to attach to prevent the cause of action from being
brought.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm still not clear -- I'm
still not clear what answer you gave to
Justice Ginsburg's question, saying: Why didn't
Congress put this out in plain words: There should be
no liability for design? Is the answer sloppy drafting?
Are you reluctant to give that answer?
MS. SULLIVAN: Well, Justice Kennedy, it
could have been drafted a different way and it would
have meant the same thing. We think the best way to
read the two clauses together "unavoidable," "even
though," is to refer to what comment k meant. Now,
comment k used the term "unavoidable." We know Congress
was thinking about the term unavoidable. We know that
because in the 1986 House report the congressional
committee say we would like to enact the principle of
comment K.
Well, what is the principle of comment K?
The principle of comment k is there are so products so
useful that we want them to stay on the market without
design defect liability. They can only be sued for
manufacturing or warning defects. Those are the only
two kinds of suits you can bring.
In our view, comment k was Congress's
denomination of vaccines as comment -- sorry, 22.1 was
the denomination of -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Sullivan.
MS. SULLIVAN: -- as a comment k product.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Horwich.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN J. HORWICH,
FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
MR. HORWICH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I think the Court finds itself actually
three-quarters of the way through the argument without
actually hearing about the most important federal agency
that is involved with this, which is arguably not the
Food and Drug Administration but the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.
And so with respect to the question about
what is it that is governing whether the -- whether
the -- the - a given vaccine is subject to the Act and
what are the incentives and who is actually making the
decision and who is trying to determine if there's
something better that's out there that we should be
pursuing -- that is the mission of the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.
That is why Congress took the original
table -- the vaccines that are on the original table in
this statute were taken from CDC's recommendations that
reflect CDC's expert scientific judgment, based on the
input from the medical and scientific community, of what
vaccines do we have that are the ones we should use to
protect the public health?
JUSTICE BREYER: Do they get the information
from the manufacturers? And -- I mean, would they find
out if in fact there had been a change -
MR. HORWICH: Well -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and it was now -- there
is a safer alternative?
MR. HORWICH: Well, let me -- let me give -
kind of -- let me answer that in -- in two ways.
The -- the first is that the -- the nature
of vaccine research is not something that manufacturers
do in a cloistered laboratory somewhere. So it's
actually very unlikely to imagine that a manufacturer
somehow comes uniquely into possession of this
knowledge.
I mean in fact, the Federal Government
spends billions of dollars doing vaccine research that
government scientists themselves perform. The
government sets the agenda for what are our targets for
development. The -- the research agenda to pursue the
acellular pertussis vaccine was something driven by the
Federal Government.
Federal Government made a choice and said
we -- we don't want manufacturers and our scientists
pursuing the -- the Tri-Solgen approach and trying to
improve that. We don't understand that vaccine very
well. We know the ultimate target needs to be the
development of an acellular vaccine, and so that's the
research path that -- to go on.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose then that in -
suppose I look into this, which I will do, the CDC and
what they do. And suppose I become convinced you are
completely right, that this is a government agency that
is top of this and the chances of something going wrong
are very small and they will figure it all out, together
with the manufacturers. Suppose I conclude that.
What do I do about this word unavoidable?
MR. HORWICH: Well I think -
JUSTICE BREYER: Now I can't say that the
word unavoidable -- it's pretty hard to say that that
word unavoidable means avoidable; and I am in fact -
like to look to the purposes of this statute, that if
something says "day" I can't say it means "night." And
so -- so what --what is it about this word that allows
us to say that it's avoidable?
MR. HORWICH: Well, I think the answer to
that actually came in a question that Justice Ginsburg
posed to Mr. Frederick, which is that unavoidable is
being used in the sense of okay; what are the vaccines
that FDA has approved that CDC has recommended for
routine administration to children, and that are the -
and that are the ones that the Federal Government has
determined are appropriate therefore to protect the
public health? And given that that is the state of
affairs that we are in, was this injury -
JUSTICE BREYER: To show that -- remember
they only want to say, because of special circumstances
this is an avoidable -- this is an avoidable injury. I
think I am right on that.
And -- and so the best place to look in your
opinion, for me to look, to show that this word
unavoidable includes that avoidable claim, is where?
MR. HORWICH: I think the way to understand
it is -- is to see that as the -- as the committee
report -- as the '86 committee report says, that what
Congress is trying to convey in using the word
unavoidable is it is -- it is respecting the principle
of comment k, which is the principle that socially
beneficial products that nonetheless have these adverse
effects ought to be on the market and we ought not to
allow tort law to push them off the market, which is
exactly what -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me -- going back
to the point you just started with -
MR. HORWICH: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- which was is this -
is the Control -- Disease Center, is it making a
judgment before it approves a drug for licensing, that
it's the most efficacious drug on market?
MR. HORWICH: CDC does not issue a license.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No -
MR. HORWICH: But the way the statute works
is that the statute only covers, in its present form,
the way -- I'm referring now to the present version of
the provision in the statute that explains how vaccines
become subject to the Act, because not all vaccines are.
The provision is in 14(e) of the Act, which I believe
may not be reproduced in any of the papers, but it
basically says that two things have to happen. One is
that before the vaccine becomes subject to either the
compensation program or the preemption provision -- is
that CDC has to recommend it for routine administration.
And that is a judgment that CDC makes with the advice of
the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Where do I look at that?
At what documents do I look at to make a judgment that
in fact, CDC is doing what I ask, that it is looking at
the question of whether this is the most efficacious
drug with the least adverse effects? Is that a judgment
it's making?
MR. HORWICH: Yes. Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We know the FDA is not.
Are you representing to us right now that CDC makes that
judgment?
MR. HORWICH: CDC makes that judgment and
announces it in a reasoned, published announcement in
its official journal which is the Morbidity and
Mortality Weekly Report.
And so for every drug -- or excuse me, for
every vaccine that it recommends for routine
administration, it publishes a notice in its journal
explaining, this is -- these are the products that we
are recommending for routine use, this is the -- the
studies, this is the development of them, this is our
basis for this determination. And so --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That would include
comparisons to other drugs on the market?
MR. HORWICH: Well, it -- there often won't
be other drugs actually on the market to compare it to,
but there will be -- there will be a vast body of
scientific literature that again is not exclusively
within the manufacturers' control, because it has been
produced by the Federal Government, by other countries'
public health agencies, by academic scientists, that CDC
will reference or its advisory committee will have
incorporated in its recommendation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it doesn't make a
determination that the one that they are listing in
their morbidity report is better than one that's out
there? This is a situation where there were two of them
out there.
MR. HORWICH: Well, there -- there were not
two out there, Mr. Chief Justice. At the time of this
there was -- there were two forms of the -- out there -
I'm sorry, if I can ask at what time you are referring
to?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the comparison
between the vaccine that caused the harm and the one
that Mr. Frederick's client says was more efficacious
and therefore the harms were avoidable.
MR. HORWICH: Right, and I'm not -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There must be a
situation where the Centers for Disease Control approve,
alert people to the fact that there is a particular
vaccine that they think manufacturers should -- should
produce, and there is another vaccine addressed to the
same disease already on the market. That's never the
case? They must improve the vaccine -
MR. HORWICH: Yes, certainly.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- or we wouldn't
have this case.
MR. HORWICH: Certainly they do. And I
mean, the Federal Government -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When they publish
that information in their weekly report, do they compare
it both with respect to losses or mortality and with
respect to efficiency, with -- to the other vaccines on
the market.
MR. HORWICH: Yes. Let me give you an
excellent example of that which is probably familiar to
the Court, that there are two types polio vaccines.
There is the Sabin vaccine, with is associated with
certain very rare but serious side effects but which is
extremely efficacious at protecting a population, and
then there is the Salk vaccine, which is not associated
with those same side effects, but is not as effective at
protecting the population.
Now CDC made a determination and this was a
determination in effect from the 1960s through the
1990s, that the Sabin vaccine -- the one that is, quote,
unquote, "less safe," was the appropriate one for use
because it better served the public health. Now as
polio -- now this is a dynamic process that CDC is
continually engaged in, and so as polio approached
global eradication and you are not as concerned about
actual control of disease running in the community, CDC
transitioned its recommendation to the Salk vaccine.
So I -- I think that answers the question
that the CDC is making determinations in this regard in
a comparative way; and I think it would be extraordinary
then to have juries -- to have -- to imagine that
Congress set up a system in which juries would
effectively be second-guessing decisions like that,
because CDC has made -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It has not only
given that information; it has also said in its weekly
report that this is the one we want you to make.
MR. HORWICH: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: They are not lawyers; they
are scientists.
MR. HORWICH: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: So they may not use these
exact words, but you are saying whatever word they use,
what they have is an ongoing process to say this is the
best vaccine available; is that right?
MR. HORWICH: Yes. And part of the on going
process, as we described in our brief, is a unique
system of monitoring and following up when there are
adverse events. So that we gave the example of the -
JUSTICE BREYER: The committees have
manufacturers on them and Government scientists and
university people and others?
MR. HORWICH: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE BREYER: The committees have
manufacturers and Government scientists and university
professors and others?
MR. HORWICH: My understanding is actually
the manufacturers are -- are -- are relatively less
represented on these -- on these committees. In a sense
that the manufacturers are sometimes doing the
manufacturing, but a lot of the research agenda is
really driven by the Federal Government.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Horwich, would you -
would you explain one feature of this, it was the
allegation that there were an unusual number of adverse
reactions to the particular lot that this child's third
vaccine came from, and that those adverse reactions were
not disclosed to the doctors. And the doctors -- the
child's doctor said if I had known about the unusual
number of adverse reactions, I never would have used
this vaccine.
Is there any actionable claim for that, for
not disclosing that there were a number of adverse -- an
unusual number of adverse reactions to this particular
lot.
MR. HORWICH: If -- if I may?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
MR. HORWICH: Yes, absolutely there is,
because that claim is either in the nature of a labeling
claim or in the nature of a manufacturing defect claim.
And the -- the district court here and the court of
appeals both treated that question not under preemption
but on the facts, summary judgment in this case was
granted purely on the absence of a disputed issue of
material fact -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. HORWICH: -- with respect to those
claims.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Frederick, take
five minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. FREDERICK: Thank you.
The only law cited by the Government today
was section 14 of the Vaccine Act. It is not reproduced
in the materials, but it is -- the title of section 14
is a vaccine injury table. It's about recommendations
that the CDC makes as to which vaccines will be on the
vaccine table, so that when the person goes throughout
vaccine court process, you can look and determine
whether or not on a no-fault basis the vaccine is listed
on the table or not listed on the table.
JUSTICE ALITO: May I ask you this question
about something that Mr. Horwich said? Under your
understanding of this scheme, if a -- a person suffered
a very serious injury as a result of the Sabin vaccine
during the period when the CDC recommended that over the
Salk vaccine, would the -- would that injured person
have a claim for design defect if the person could -
could produce experts who said the CDC was wrong, that
they should never have made this recommendation?
MR. FREDERICK: It's not that the CDC would
be wrong, Justice Alito. There is a difference between
strict liability and a no-fault arrangement and where
negligence would be asserted that a reasonable
manufacturer would have come forward with information
about a safer design.
So what Congress explicitly rejected and
they voted this down in the Energy and Commerce
Committee was a regulatory compliance defense solely on
the basis that the FDA had approved at the time -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, this may be -- this
may be what Congress wanted and may be the better
policy, but your answer to my question is that -
MR. FREDERICK: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- that would permit a lay
jury relying on experts produced in court, the CDC got
this wrong, the Salk vaccine was really the better one.
MR. FREDERICK: Yes, yes, that would be a
viable design defect claim. And let me give you an
example right out of the Joint Appendix in this case.
In 1965 Lederle's researchers determine that Lily, the
Tri-Solgen, had a "superior product," that's at page 245
of the Joint Appendix. That was in 1967. Eight years
later the internal scientists at Lederle wrote a memo to
the head of Lederle and said we recommend that we
approach Lily for its pertussis vaccine process and/or
continue to bid on foreign contracts for this product
line with the intent of increasing volume.
They had made the determination they were
not capable internally of doing a safer design and they
knew that for eight years and they nonetheless kept the
wholesale pertussis in its market and the documents in
this case indicate they did it for economic reasons.
And the whole idea behind having design defect claims is
to put manufacturers to the duty of putting out safest
possible products in light of what the science holds.
The CDC -- there are no regulations that the
Government cites in its brief or today saying that the
CDC does the kind of comparative analysis for safety
that is provided under State law design defect claims.
JUSTICE BREYER: Their argument is that the
CDC will do it better than juries. That's what I heard
him say.
MR. FREDERICK: And, Justice Breyer, there
are now six DTaP vaccines on the market that CDC doesn't
distinguish between them, but if it comes to pass that
the science would indicate that one of them was woefully
not as safe, and here, their argument is that the
vaccine industry is going to go out of business. This
vaccine that's at issue in this case was taken off the
market in 1998.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought
Mr. Horwich told me that the CDC does compare new
vaccines to the ones that are out in the market?
MR. FREDERICK: He cited no law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You think he was
incorrect in that assertion. We can go back and look at
these weekly reports and they are either going to say
this is better than the one that's out there or they are
not.
MR. FREDERICK: Yes. And if you compare
that to what Congress wrote in the statute, our
submission is that Congress's words in section 22 take
precedence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm just trying to
find out what your position is on that. Do they compare
it to existing vaccines or not?
MR. FREDERICK: We found no law that gives
the CDC the authority.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm not asking about
law, I'm asking matter of fact.
MR. FREDERICK: Whether, I'm not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You open up the
weekly report.
MR. FREDERICK: I'm sorry,
Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When you open up the
weekly report and it says this new vaccine is better
vaccine than the one that is out there or not?
MR. FREDERICK: I'm not aware that the CDC
does the kind of granular comparisons that would go to
the level of safety that is at issue in this kind of
case. And that's what's important here. We are talking
about trying to eliminate some of the most horrifying
and horrible incidents of injury to vaccines that we
compel children to take.
And the whole idea behind Congress's scheme
was to balance having vaccine supply available with
providing a generous form of compensation to those
persons who would be injured.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 2:02 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
59:16 49:2,21 18:20 21:3 approval 9:20 18:19
38:18 29:21 14:3 21:22 avoidability 36:4
24:17 adopting 35:21 36:1 41:7,8 47:10 11:24 32:15,16
adverse 31:24 amend 28:9 56:7 32:24 35:12,16
8:21 9:11 54:1,3,6,9,10 17:17 area 17:24 47:5,18,18,22
advice 49:3 American 16:20 arguably 44:19 50:25
41:7 50:10 44:12 2:2,5,8,12 3:4,7 award 36:18
affairs 47:15 amount 20:19,20 5:12 17:3,8 awards 15:7
29:16 31:12 57:11 44:11,17 55:2
5:17 7:8
49:16 55:25 back 20:12 26:16
22:25
27:8,18
answer 12:4 30:1 aside 17:24 32:23 38:4 48:8
30:25
39:19
42:19 43:7,10 asking 10:3 backdrop 5:5
44:24
55:6
21:11 47:6 56:10 30:16 58:17,18 bad 21:6
43:2,4
7:13 21:2 appeals 54:18 Assistant 1:20 18:19 19:16
55:14,24 APPEARANC... associated 51:22 45:8
1:15 51:25 basic 4:17
application 7:9 assuming 22:18 10:25 49:25
29:9 39:14 approach 7:12 16:19 40:8,19 bears 7:21,22
42:16 46:10 56:23 authority 22:13 43:1
3:8 29:2 43:5 16:4 18:18 31:3 44:6,10,14 5:9,14 7:4 10:9
55:3 Bruesewitz 1:3 37:17 50:12,18,22 15:2 25:3 26:2
Bruesewitzes cause 4:11 15:21 52:20 53:23 27:24 29:2,8,12
2:9 44:11 business 25:17 CDC 46:16 children 4:2 17:1 clarify 13:7
53:5 49:2,3,7,13,15 41:9 47:11 59:8 28:24
33:2,5,11 c 1:16 2:1,3,13 52:14,19 55:9 39:25 43:15
50:14 52:7 3:1,7 20:25 55:18,21,23 child's 54:2,5 clear 5:5 7:11,18
57:14 55:2 56:13 57:9,11 choice 46:8 11:14 16:17
calculus 20:11 57:14,17,25 choices 10:7,7 17:14,14,16,22
18:4 19:5 21:7 24:12 28:15 51:9,12 civil 28:12 20:22 23:11
19:3,9 24:19 34:9 37:2 certification civilly 28:4 29:16 32:25
34:22 51:8,11 54:19 22:14 claim 3:16,19 56:2
36:24 56:17 57:5,22 challenge 26:5 4:16 5:21,23 comes 11:20
46:15 59:5,14,15 challenged 26:6 8:4 13:9 15:10 24:4 30:5 35:8
47:16 cases 7:5,6 9:15 chances 46:19 17:2 20:16 45:24 57:18
53:2,10 11:23 12:14 change 45:14 22:23 26:4 29:8 comment 4:22
57:13,16 17:13 18:16 changing 33:3 29:12 37:21 6:17,19 7:4,10
12:15 23:20 24:25 channelled 15:2 54:15,16,16 35:20,21 43:16
18:7 25:1 26:13 36:8 channelling 18:6 55:20 56:16 43:17,21,22,23
53:7 37:23,24 42:11 cheaper 42:20 Claimant 5:17 44:3,4,8 48:3
case-by-case Chief 3:3,10 4:23 claimants 37:20 Commerce 56:5
7:11 10:25 10:20,21 20:5,9 claiming 3:17 43:20 47:24,25
33:22 56:24 35:13 36:6 32:20 39:16
9:12 11:25 contrary 17:5 covers 48:18 54:16 55:20
45:9 40:9 44:21 45:4 9:10 11:1 27:22 defects 7:1 9:25
concerned 13:9 48:12 50:7 51:3 creating 4:12 19:21 28:19
52:15 52:10 convey 48:1 27:22,22 39:13,14 44:1
conclude 17:18 convinced 46:17 criterion 12:9 defend 15:3 20:1
57:25 concluded 21:16 correct 13:21 44:12 defense 3:25
concrete 33:22 20:23 23:13 current 6:16 8:2 4:20 5:6 7:4,18
4:13 5:6 6:12 correctly 13:4 cut 28:18 defenses 4:12,14
59:3 10:7 16:8 17:15 11:16 D 21:1
26:9 27:21 28:2 costs 38:9 19:25 denomination
36:19 38:1,16 54:22 59:13 dangerous 6:22 Department 1:21
5:13 15:23 39:22 40:2 43:9 country 19:22 10:23 depends 24:10
38:4 43:17 45:5 48:1 41:10 Daubert 26:12 38:14,14
40:21 52:17 56:4,9 course 11:22 DAVID 1:16 2:3 describe 27:21
42:9,10 58:9 32:25 2:13 3:7 55:2 described 53:7
59:11 congressional court 1:1,13 3:10 day 22:6 47:3 describing 38:17
59:9 16:11 18:8,9,13 decade 41:11 10:8 11:16 12:7
27:16 31:23 20:18,19,22 decided 7:8 16:8 18:20
consideration 25:13,19 32:8 decision 18:11 19:17 22:7,22
19:23 construed 9:15 36:17,21,23,25 decisions 52:18 26:15,19,20
12:14 37:4,8,10,13 deemed 34:7 27:23 28:11,19
contaminants 40:15 42:7,11 5:9 10:8 13:9 30:5 31:15,21
context 11:1 44:15,16 51:21 26:2,4,9,15,20 41:20 43:10,25
continually 52:9 56:13 29:3,3,8,12,13 57:2,6,12
5:1,2 disorder 15:11 22:1 elected 20:15 excellent 51:20
15:16 due 14:14 Eleventh 17:17 exclusive 25:19
34:18 34:15 dynamic 52:8 33:25 excuse 48:8
50:13 displace 5:7 D.C 1:9,16,21 eliminate 31:14 49:19
57:1 displaced 5:10 59:6 exemption 37:6
disputed 54:20 E 2:1 3:1,1 empirical 9:22 37:4,5
56:18 24:24 18:24 21:10 enable 12:7 existed 13:1
47:13 distinguish 57:18 easy 18:21 37:17 43:20 existing 38:3
31:9 57:5 39:10 exonerated
doctor 54:5 effect 7:8 11:2 13:13 exoneration 9:10
46:5,13 doctrine 4:21 effective 11:11 engage 23:3 expense 24:16
documents 13:2 11:23 12:9,10 engaged 52:9 expert 45:8
29:10 dollars 46:2 effects 5:25 6:9 eradication 53:25
43:13 doses 24:5,7 9:8 10:13,24 52:10 explained 7:16
drafters 7:25 13:12 28:16 error 3:19 explains 48:20
8:22 28:5 driven 26:18 52:1 2:3,6,9,13 expressly 3:22
38:6 46:6 53:22 efficacious 12:17 established 4:14 26:1
13:4 16:2 21:2 51:24 14:3 extremely 51:24
49:19 efficient 24:8,9 53:3 46:1 47:1 49:7
44:20 45:4 50:2,4 48:25 54:15 example 35:17 factor 15:17
51:3,7 DTaP 57:17 58:5 43:2 51:20 53:9 facts 54:19
29:3 21:23 34:1 35:1 58:2,8,15,19 26:16 27:20 16:9
39:7 35:2 55:1 58:22 59:2 28:20 29:22 hard 46:25
16:24 21:3 9:3 53:8 fundamentally 20:6,12 23:20 16:21 31:11
23:2,3 Food 27:8 44:20 22:3,9 37:1 41:13 45:11 47:14
26:6,24 forces 40:5 funded 4:5 46:19 48:8 53:6 50:9 52:7
27:7,12 foreclosure future 38:2,5 57:21 58:5 hear 3:3
30:9,14 20:21 good 5:13 16:13 heard 36:10
31:6 foreign 56:24 G gotten 23:12 57:14
32:9 form 48:18 59:11 G 3:1 govern 4:13 hearing 10:5
34:12 forms 50:19 gained 9:20 governing 44:23 44:18
38:25 forth 7:5,12 8:13 general 1:21 government 9:19 held 3:15 28:4
41:7 47:10 12:10 6:21 18:3 10:12 11:5 29:6 help 5:1,2
56:7 forward 10:1 generous 59:11 31:18 33:18 history 9:16
34:11,20 4:24 5:3,15 32:13,18 33:21 57:10 37:15,18 38:20
40:3 6:12 7:2,24 9:2 33:25 34:3 government's 39:10 40:10
46:1,7,8 9:6,21 10:6,19 38:16,20 39:4,7 12:11 horrible 59:7
50:8 10:23 11:3,13 42:8,16,18 47:7 granted 54:20 horrifying 59:6
53:22 11:25 12:13,21 53:24 granular 59:3 Horwich 1:20 2:9
30:5 45:13 20:8,12,23 21:7 47:14 52:21 39:8 51:1,9,12,19
21:24 22:16,20 gives 58:15 guess 24:1 52:23 53:1,6,13
18:10 35:20 36:14 go 5:12 10:1 15:5 happen 21:2 hostile 16:14
35:22 42:19 47:8 15:8 17:21 18:8 48:24 House 26:17
increasing 56:25 6:12 7:17 8:1 Justice 1:21 3:3 52:20,24 53:2
indicated 13:2 25:22 56:25 5:16,24 6:13,24 54:13,22,25
individual 37:24 4:21 9:3,5,18,21 56:12 57:13,16
52:16 information interprets 11:5 16:12 17:11,20 7:4,10,18,25
52:21 56:2 involved 34:16 20:13,17 21:2 43:23 44:3,8
39:24 55:19 issue 27:4,12 23:5,6,10,14 1:18 2:6 25:10
injuries 30:8 38:3 57:22 59:4 24:18,21 25:7 Kennedy 14:19
10:24 11:1 21:4 J 1:20 2:9 44:11 27:6,10 28:1,20 24:18,21 26:22
47:15,18 55:8 14:2 30:10,11,13,14 43:6,12
inoculate 39:23 Joint 56:17,20 31:3,4,16,22 key 26:22
13:20 21:23 judgement 37:7 33:4,10,21,25 kind 25:25 26:1
input 45:9 36:3 36:24 37:11,16 57:11 59:3,4
insert 23:16 18:8 20:15 39:4,7 40:7,11 29:2 32:24
Institute 15:15 45:8 48:13 49:3 42:16,18 43:6,8 57:3
20:20 judgments 15:4 46:15,24 47:7 43:18 46:12
intended 6:3 7:11 juries 16:23 36:3 48:16 49:5,12 knowledge 6:17
58:4 intending 5:6 jury 24:10 56:13 51:2,10,14 31:24 45:25
28:11,12,18 lot 17:1 41:16 29:3,13 32:14 memo 56:21
7:21,23 43:10,25 55:25 M 54:16 meritorious
10:11 liable 28:4 M 1:18 2:6 25:10 market 13:5,18 24:19
17:6 23:5 license 26:25 main 28:22 14:6 16:25 mid-1990s 14:4
48:15 majority 7:3 15:5 21:13,15 23:15 million 20:10
33:7 light 6:16 9:16 35:21,22 30:15 31:6 minimize 41:15
5:7 Lilly 13:10 21:17 making 40:7 36:9,13 38:7,10 minority 6:25
21:21 44:25 48:12 39:2 42:24 minutes 55:1
14:15,22 Lily 34:5 56:18 49:10 52:14 43:24 48:5,6,14 misconstrued
16:10 56:23 mandate 31:12 50:2,4 51:7,18 3:24
18:2,3 limited 16:6 manufacture 57:4,17,23 58:1 misled 33:13
22:24 29:14 21:18 marketed 21:22 mission 45:3
26:25 line 56:25 manufactured marketing 23:21 misunderstood
48:6 55:5 listed 55:12,13 6:23 8:6 34:4 master 15:23 4:17
58:2,15 listing 50:13 manufacturer 16:6 moment 16:16
literally 14:7 8:19 14:16 16:2 material 54:21 17:25 19:8
26:1 38:2,5 41:14 24:19 28:3 16:10 18:2 money 37:8
lives 34:24 29:16,19 30:2 58:18 59:16 39:25
56:21,22 46:16 47:2,20 22:7,10 24:11 9:15,16 motivates 27:17
55:11 58:4 26:18 27:13 11:8 47:1,3 27:13 30:1
18:5 looks 5:4,15 7:14 38:6,12 40:9 mechanism 4:9 mumps 37:22
33:18 omitted 29:8,12 pediatricians plenty 25:19 prepare 33:1
onerous 41:15 Pediatrics 16:20 12:24 14:7 8:21 9:11 10:15
45:10 47:12 people 15:5 17:9 17:12,13 18:5,6 present 48:18,19
ongoing 29:19 36:6 37:12 28:22 36:24 preserve 7:11
open 58:20,24 51:4 53:12 pointed 26:5,22 presumed 17:15
opponent 35:9 19:19 20:1,7 points 17:11 11:16 29:14
30:22 3:7 25:10 44:11 37:12,17 polio 51:21 52:8 prevent 38:5
37:17 order 30:14 perform 46:3 52:9 43:4
54:6 55:22 ordinary 6:4 period 21:4 population 27:3 Prevention 44:21
58:25 16:21 permission 27:5 posed 47:8 principle 3:17
overlooked 3:20 person 4:11 possible 57:8 private 32:2
41:22
9:3 56:23 57:4 preclude 4:16 19:21
56:19 Petitioners 1:4 25:20 proceeding
23:24 plain 43:9 31:20 37:6 55:11 56:23
9:4 passes 35:1 41:17 49:1 54:18 51:6 55:21
56:13 37:6 38:18 54:18 55:14 56:22 remove 27:13
13:9 23:15 provisions 3:21 quite 20:25 38:24 55:22 renders 8:11,22
30:3 44:8 4:16 5:1,5 42:15 recommendati... reply 8:12,16
proviso 8:7 quote 6:22 8:20 45:7 55:8 12:15
48:4 27:14 45:11 47:10 55:18 43:19 47:25,25
57:8 47:14 50:9 52:7 R recommending 49:18 50:14
15:1 24:23 punitive 19:22 51:23 recover 7:1 reports 7:16 58:5
purchased 21:17 rashes 34:16 reduce 31:13 represented
purely 54:20 reactions 54:2,3 reference 50:10 representing
9:12 28:5 40:20 42:1,4 read 28:21,25 referred 6:15 reproduced
8:6,21 47:2 43:15 50:20 require 23:7
10:15 28:4 purpose-related reading 8:19 refers 5:24 43:2 41:10
45:11 46:5 reads 7:25 42:5 52:14 37:4,5
pursued 14:12 realistic 19:12 regardless 14:12 requirements
51:24 52:2 45:3 46:10 really 6:10 7:19 regulation 27:3,7 requires 27:4
40:22 put 17:24 28:17 reason 4:3 29:7 23:7 26:25 57:9 research 40:5
23:12 57:7 38:4 10:1,8 19:23 53:21
p.m 1:14 3:2 14:16 19:16 rejected 56:4 56:18
57:12 qualify 12:10 reasonably 53:18 resolved 26:13
18:3 question 5:8 7:20 reasoned 49:16 relieved 8:20 respect 4:3 11:6
12:5 14:17,19 14:10 57:5 relying 56:13 51:16,17 54:23
30:1 31:5 36:2 2:12 55:2 remember 47:16 respond 17:7
27:23 47:7 49:8 52:13 recommend 49:2 removal 30:15 Respondents
2:7,11 rule 6:21 18:3 scheme 5:13 31:11 Solicitor 1:20
44:13 running 52:11 42:9,10 55:16 set 5:13 7:5,12 solve 27:22
schemes 29:11 52:17 24:3
35:14,15 S 2:1 3:1 57:8,19 settle 24:19 44:4 50:20
36:2,11 Sabin 51:22 52:5 scientific 6:16 settled 6:14,15 53:13 58:22
safe 12:16 22:14 15:15 33:17 settlement 24:15 13:15,25 18:17
39:15,19 57:20 scientists 3:13 26:22 25:18,24 26:11
9:17 12:17 14:11 50:9 52:25 SG's 18:7 29:10,25 30:11
33:14,19 34:7 second-guessing show 19:17 42:7 40:7,11,13,18
38:18 39:8 40:6 secretary 15:19 side 5:25 6:9 7:7 41:12,18 48:8
18:4 56:3 57:2 31:11 11:21 12:8 49:12 50:1
24:3 safest 57:7 section 3:25 5:18 16:20 19:5 Sotomayor's
32:21 safety 4:2 23:4 5:19,24 6:18 20:11 28:16 31:4
39:6 57:11 59:4 9:17 14:23 16:9 31:13 32:24,24 sought 21:3
42:15 Salk 51:25 52:12 20:14 27:20 51:23 52:1 sounds 41:12
47:19 55:19 56:14 29:20 31:9,9,10 side's 8:10,14 special 15:22
51:1 53:5 save 35:2 31:25 34:20 22:2 16:6 19:22
saves 34:24 55:6,7 58:10 sign 5:13 37:1 47:17
5:11 10:3 11:20 18:2,7 47:24 simplest 28:6 spends 46:2
20:5,9 23:16 24:4,6 seizure 13:13 simply 11:8 28:3 split 13:10 21:13
25:7 30:9 31:10 15:11,16 34:14 34:15 34:4
44:6,10 32:23 35:11,20 sense 32:22 41:1 situation 38:25 stable 38:14
51:2 36:3,23 47:3,25 47:9 53:19 50:15 51:3 standard 12:15
52:20 48:24 50:24 series 13:20 six 37:23 57:17 14:14,14 21:12
54:13,22 58:25 21:25 sloppy 43:10 standards 5:19
57:24 Scalia 7:19 8:25 serious 13:12 slow 31:17 started 48:9
9:3,5 11:3,13 27:3 51:23 small 42:14 state 3:16,18
59:13 11:19 12:4,13 55:17 46:20 4:11,12,16 5:7
28:23 served 52:7 sold 13:11 41:4 12:2,18 14:15
substitute 23:16 7:23,24 testified 9:24 11:16 20:1,7
21:8 success 33:17 surplusage 8:11 testimony 10:4 25:6 34:25
25:5,20 sued 43:25 8:19,23 9:9 testing 30:2 50:18,20 56:7
32:8 suffered 55:16 22:4 28:24 tests 14:9 title 55:7
37:25 sufficient 15:20 survive 26:20 text 28:21 29:21 today 38:11 55:5
40:15 42:6 suggested 10:12 susceptible 32:22,23,23 57:10
47:14 10:12 41:19 39:15 told 33:13 57:25
suggesting 40:25 system 19:18,20 Thank 3:9 25:7 top 46:19
28:7,8,9 suit 22:11 52:17 53:8 54:22 55:4 37:2 48:6
14:1 20:2 39:13 44:2 theories 13:8 tracked 6:19
Sullivan 1:18 2:6 T 41:22 transitioned
20:13 23:3 26:15 27:6,19 table 5:22 15:12 18:25 32:19 treated 54:18
28:9 29:5 28:1,2,20 29:18 45:6,6 55:8,10 43:14 tremendous
30:10,13,18,21 55:13,13 things 4:19 19:6 24:16
45:7 31:8,21 32:4,12 take 9:18 20:2,9 27:22 36:14 trial 5:20
48:17,18 32:16,21 33:8 25:2 31:6 36:20 38:23 48:24 tried 21:10
58:9 33:12,24 34:3 37:7,8 39:22,25 think 7:6 16:18 trifurcated 19:24
41:2,6,18 42:15 35:12,16 39:17 41:16 43:14 33:22 34:3,13
54:19 target 46:12 43:18 42:22
30:25 supply 26:20 task 40:5 29:8 54:2 20:16 42:7
39:19 38:12,15 40:22 technical 7:22 thought 5:11 trying 4:25 41:15
2:11 44:13 tell 9:1 23:20 threat 19:12,13 Tuesday 1:10
44:24 suppose 20:6 telling 18:24 three 3:19 13:23 two 13:8 17:10
46:15,16,17,21 tells 23:8 31:6 27:22 29:1,6 28:21,25 29:5,9
58:10 surcharges 4:5 term 6:3 35:19 three-part 14:5 40:21 41:8,9
39:16 40:2 terms 24:1 44:17 45:19 48:24
surplus 6:10 7:21 tested 23:22 time 6:25 7:8 51:21
53:2,3 16:25 22:21 31:22 32:11,13 withdrawn 13:5
9:13 12:1 v 1:5 3:4 47:9 48:20,21 warnings 6:2,7,8 woefully 57:19
6:3,10,11 vaccine 3:11,15 57:17 58:1,14 28:13 32:7,8 word 3:24 6:13
8:8 9:8,14 3:18 4:4,10,18 59:7 warrant 4:20 6:14 8:15,18
10:14 5:18,22,22 6:1 vaccine-related Washington 1:9 9:7,14 10:13,20
11:5,6 6:5 8:9,20 9:11 4:8 1:16,21 10:21 12:11
28:16,16 9:20 10:14,14 vast 15:4,4 18:6 wasn't 17:4 46:22,25 47:1,4
35:10,11 10:17,18 11:1,6 24:25 25:2,3,3 wave 25:15 47:21 48:1 53:3
11:9,10,11,17 50:5 waves 38:1 wording 20:13
11:18,22 12:12 VDAP 14:5 way 3:14 5:12 8:3 words 7:14 8:10
47:1,8 13:10 15:1,7,11 verdicts 20:10 11:14 12:13 8:17 43:9 53:3
48:2 16:9 18:8,9,13 version 9:24 16:15,17 21:18 58:10
13:4 23:17,21 24:2,4 victim 32:1 41:21,24 43:13 34:20,20
46:11 24:5,8,23 25:2 victims 40:12,14 43:14 44:17 working 42:20
25:15,17,19 40:14 42:3 47:23 48:17,19 works 30:23
55:16 27:1,2,9 28:3,4 8:10,14,17,23 ways 45:19 worried 37:9
33:19 34:4,8,23 31:20 35:21,22 51:15 52:21 worse 14:21
14:1 20:2 38:10,11,12,19 30:3,12 41:10 46:19 55:21,24
39:8,20 40:22 voted 56:5 we're 16:23 56:14
42:21,22 44:24 W wholesale 34:7 19:5 56:21 58:9
46:13 48:25 19:11 35:23 willful 31:17 21:16,16 23:15
55:10,11,12,17 40:2 56:9 winning 19:16
41:8 vaccines 4:5 7:1 warned 6:23 8:6 York 1:18,18
18:1
22(b)(1) 5:4,24 9
1:5 3:4 7:15 8:11 20:25 99 18:7 19:19
26:2 37:4 20:1 36:16 37:8
38:5 39:12 42:4
8:15 9:3,4 20:7 42:5 43:3
1:14 3:2 22(b)(1)'s 3:25
24:5 22(b)(2) 29:14
31:25 32:5
39:1 22(e) 43:2
1:10 22.1 44:4
24:7 23 5:16,19 20:14
55:6,7 23(b) 36:23
48:22 23(e) 5:21 16:9
34:10 245 56:19
8:12,16 9:3 25 2:7
3:12 27 27:20 31:9,9
14:1 31:10 34:20
12:2 13:1 28 29:20
52:4
56:18 3
56:20 3 2:4
14:2 33:14 30 3:13
3:18 4:4 7:8
27:21 4
38:4,7 402A 6:18 9:17
44 2:11
7:10
8:15 9:4
37:20,24
52:5
7:12 34:11
41:9
34:12
3:13
34:12
41:8
2:14
23:15 57:23
34:5
20:25
37:9,11
59:15
13:17
34:24
9:16 7
1:10 70s 34:5
5:16,17 16:21 75% 11:23
