IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JOSE TOLENTINO, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-11556
NEW YORK :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, March 21, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
KRISTINA SCHWARZ, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf of
Petitioner.
CAITLIN J. HALLIGAN, ESQ., General Counsel, New York
County District Attorney, New York, New York; on
behalf of Respondent.
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of United States, as amicus curiae.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
KRISTINA SCHWARZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
CAITLIN J. HALLIGAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as
amicus curiae 43
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
KRISTINA SCHWARZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next this morning in Case 09-11556, Tolentino
v. New York.
Ms. Schwarz.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KRISTINA SCHWARZ
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. SCHWARZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Court held in Delaware v. Prouse that,
in the absence of reasonable suspicion, it is an
unreasonable seizure under the Fourth Amendment for
police to stop a car for the purpose of checking the
motorist's driving credentials.
In Brown v. Texas, the Court similarly ruled
that police may not stop a person without reasonable
suspicion for the purpose of requiring the individual to
identify him or herself. These cases are grounded in
the principle that in this country we enjoy the right to
go about our business free from government interference
unless or until the police have just cause to detain us.
Petitioner's motion to suppress alleged that
the police acted exactly as they did in Prouse and
Brown. They stopped the car without justification,
elicited his name, and gained access to his DMV records,
which otherwise would not have been discovered. Instead
of suppressing the poisonous fruit of the illegal car
stop, the DMV records, the New York Court of Appeals
chose to create a new categorical rule that prevents
application of the exclusionary rule whenever the police
act in violation of Prouse.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was -- was -- was the
poisonous fruit the DMV records, or was the poisonous
fruit the fact that this person who is contained in the
records was the one driving the car? Why wasn't that
the -- why wasn't that the fruit? I mean, the records
were there anyway. What -- what -- what new information
came from the stop was the fact that that is the person
who was driving the car. Why -- why didn't -- why
wasn't that what should have been suppressed?
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, Justice Scalia, that is
also a fruit of the poisonous tree. As -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would agree with you on
that fruit. Did -- did you ask for that to be
suppressed?
MS. SCHWARZ: Yes, that was asked for in the
-- in the motion at the trial level. In addition -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's not what's
before us here, right?
MS. SCHWARZ: That's right, and that's
because the court below decided that -- in deciding the
case only addressed the DMV record, and -- and indicated
that the DMV records were not properly suppressible
fruit.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that the -
MS. SCHWARZ: And that's the issue.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that -- that you had
won at the trial level; the judge suppresses everything
and dismisses the indictment; and Mr. Tolentino walks
out of the courtroom and is observed by the officer that
conducted the stop in this case. The officer sees him
getting into a car and driving away, even though his
license is still suspended. Now, could -- could he be
arrested for that?
MS. SCHWARZ: Yes, Justice Alito, he could.
JUSTICE ALITO: Even though the officer
would have no reason to know that this particular person
has a suspended license were it not for the chain of
events that followed from the initial allegedly illegal
stop?
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, although that initial
stop provided the tainted information that he didn't
have a license, the subsequent re- offense would
certainly taint the -- the illegality of the first stop
and make the second offense properly -
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. Let me ask a
related question. Suppose that after you filed your
suppression motion the -- the State of New York became
nervous about this issue and they checked all the
surveillance cameras in the vicinity of the stop, and,
lo and behold, they found a tape showing Mr. Tolentino
driving the car shortly before the stop here. Could he
be prosecuted for illegal -- for driving without a
license, with a suspended license, using that evidence?
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, that -- I believe that
under those circumstances it would be entirely proper to
prosecute the case. With that, that would be evidence
that came from an independent source.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I mean, in light of
those two answers, it does seem to me that your real
problem here is not with the -- the DMV records. It's
with the police officer's observation after the stop
that Mr. Tolentino was driving the car.
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, Justice Alito, again,
all of -- there's lots of evidence that could be
properly the fruit of the poisonous tree. There was a
statement made here that the Petitioner said that he did
not have a New York State license, there's the
observations of the officer, and there's the DMV
records. They're all properly considered fruit, and in
this case the DMV records are of important evidentiary
significance.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there -- is there any
case in this Court where what was suppressed was
information that was lawfully in the government's
possession, as opposed to evidence that was acquired
originally through the search? Here we have the DMV
records, they're public records. I don't know of any
decision of this Court that deals with suppression of
evidence that is already in the government's possession,
and if I'm wrong about that, you tell me.
MS. SCHWARZ: Yes. Yes, Justice Ginsburg, I
don't believe there has been precedent on that issue.
However, in the independent source doctrine cases, there
-- they've always required that the possession -- or
that they have knowledge of the information in order for
it to defeat the exclusionary rule application. So in
this case, although the government had the DMV records
-- well, first of all, law enforcement didn't have the
DMV records. It was only until the illegality and the
exploitation of that illegality that they acquired the
records from the Department of Motor Vehicles. So in
that sense it was clearly a fruit of the poisonous tree.
But even if you look at government as an
integrated whole, the prior possession of the -- the
records was meaningless, of no value to them, until the
illegality when it acquired its meaning.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose the police
following Mr. Tolentino had noted down his license
plate, and then got this information, not as a result of
his driver's license, but from the plate on the car?
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, Justice Ginsburg, the -
the -- the plates of the car would not indicate the -
the driver's license of the driver, and in this case Mr.
Tolentino -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They might show him as
the owner of the car.
MS. SCHWARZ: The owner of the car. And I
believe in Respondent's brief they indicated that -
that some of the police computers will even show
descriptive features or maybe even a picture of the
driver. But in this case Mr. Tolentino was not the
registered owner of the vehicle, so that wouldn't have
provided them with cause to pull the car over.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: This -- this goes back to
a question Justice Alito asked in a probably more artful
way, but I'm not quite sure what's supposed to happen
under your view after this stop. They stop the person,
they get the information that he's driving under a
suspended license, and are they supposed to say, Oh, you
know, we shouldn't have stopped you; I'm sorry, have a
nice day, go ahead, and then he leaves? Is that what
goes on?
MS. SCHWARZ: No, Justice Kennedy, that's
not what would happen. The State would impound the car.
They would not allow a -- a person without a proper
license to get back in the car and -- and drive on.
That -- in order for the Petitioner to get the vehicle
back, he would -- if it was his vehicle -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, why isn't impounding
the car the fruit of the illegal search?
MS. SCHWARZ: Because the -- the impoundment
statutes are based on a public safety interest, and so
it doesn't -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But why doesn't the public
safety interest then permit us to use this evidence in
order to protect the public safety further by punishing
him for -- not driving? I don't see the difference.
MS. SCHWARZ: Because in order to do that,
it would be tantamount to sanctioning a -- a fishing
expedition in this case, Justice Kennedy, because it
would be allowing the police without reasonable
suspicion -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, why wouldn't you say
the same thing about impounding the car?
MS. SCHWARZ: Because the -- the -- the
interests are different and because it's not a forever
removal of the Petitioner's right to get the car,
whoever the -- the rightful owner is. It's just making
sure that the Petitioner can't get back in the car and
continue driving. In order to get the vehicle back, at
least in New York State, the -- if it was the
Petitioner's, they would have to show proof that they
had a valid license; and if it wasn't his vehicle, then
the other -- the true owner would have to get -- provide
proper credentials to establish that they could take the
-- the vehicle into their possession; and also they
would have to have proof that the Petitioner himself had
cleared up his record or get some sort of a -- a release
from the court or from the district attorney's office.
So the whole purpose of that impoundment statute is for
public safety.
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't understand the
answer you gave to Justice Alito. Maybe I mixed it up.
The police stop the car without cause.
MS. SCHWARZ: Uh-huh.
JUSTICE BREYER: So illegal stop. And you
say as a result of the stop they found out all these
things in the records, that he had no license, right?
MS. SCHWARZ: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: So that shouldn't be
introduced into his trial for driving without a license.
MS. SCHWARZ: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now the
question I had heard put was, suppose after they got
this information, they don't arrest him then, but he
gets into the car again and starts driving. You said
then they could arrest him?
MS. SCHWARZ: Well -
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right? Why? Why
isn't -- why isn't that just as much the fruit of the
poisonous tree? They found out he doesn't have a
license by the record which came to them from an illegal
stop. I just don't understand it. Did I get you right
as to what you said?
MS. SCHWARZ: Justice Breyer, what I -- what
I meant to say is the attenuation doctrine would apply.
Now, if the person was -- got back in his car
immediately at that scene and started off driving, then
I'm not sure that the attenuation doctrine would -
would -- would kick in.
JUSTICE BREYER: So therefore they couldn't
arrest him. So what they do is they -- is that right?
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, yes, but -
JUSTICE BREYER: They see -- they see he -
they stopped him, they get the records, wrongly. They
see he has no license. He says: How did you know?
Because we just looked at your license. That was
illegal; good-bye, gets into the car and drives off, and
they can do nothing?
MS. SCHWARZ: Except I just have to remind
you that they -- they could -
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right or not? Is
that right?
MS. SCHWARZ: -- impound the car.
JUSTICE BREYER: I -- how could they --
they can impound the car.
MS. SCHWARZ: Impound the car.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because?
MS. SCHWARZ: So -
JUSTICE BREYER: Because?
MS. SCHWARZ: Because of the statutory
rights, the Court -- because they now know that he has
no license to drive, so either the car will -- if
there's another person who can properly take possession
of the vehicle, then that person can drive off with the
car. But the Petitioner himself, who doesn't have a
valid license, he can't get back in the car.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Schwarz, suppose -
MS. SCHWARZ: And -
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry.
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, I'm done.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Schwarz, suppose the
police arrest the guy, find out who he is, don't -- stop
the guy, find out who he is, don't arrest him, but then
now they know that this is the kind of guy who drives
without a license. And so they go to his house the next
day and they see him getting back in the car. Could
they arrest him then?
MS. SCHWARZ: Justice Kagan, I think the
answer would be yes, and the reason why is because if
they see him on a subsequent occasion and they're seeing
him re-offend, that would attenuate the taint of the
first -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So the re-offense -- the
re-offense just cuts off the original taint?
MS. SCHWARZ: I believe so, yes. I mean, it
would be attenuation analysis, but to me it would be
pretty clear-cut that that's how it would resolve.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the only way that
the police can prevent an unlicensed driver from driving
in this situation is to take away his car? Impound the
car, as you say?
MS. SCHWARZ: Well -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Unless they want -
for any offense, you know, expired driver's license.
Expired last week. They can't just give the guy -- they
can't give the guy a ticket, right? All they can do is
take away his car?
Your answer to a number of the questions has
been that -- that have tried to address the issue of
what are they supposed to do, since they know they have
somebody who is violating the law, is that, well, they
can take away the car. And I just want to know if
that's the only permissible response by the police when
they know that the person driving has violated the law.
MS. SCHWARZ: If the -- if the stop was -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Totally illegal.
MS. SCHWARZ: -- Totally illegal -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Totally, yes.
MS. SCHWARZ: Then I don't think that -- if
there were -- I don't think that they could prosecute
that case. They could -- they couldn't charge him with
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the only way to
prevent him from reoffending immediately is to impound
the car? Because if he gets into the car and drives,
then -- or can the police arrest him right away?
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, again, that would be
attenuation analysis. But I think that the taint of the
initial illegality would make that a much more difficult
case. But in that situation, the police also could -
again, if there was another person who had authority to
take possession of the vehicle, that person could take
the vehicle, the registered owner or someone with
authority to do that. But the police would not be
powerless to see the defendant get back in the -- in the
car.
I mean, it would -- that would be -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why not? Why
wouldn't they -
MS. SCHWARZ: Because of the impoundment
statutes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that your answer,
then: They've got to impound the car every time or let
the guy just go?
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, they -- they could drive
the person home to his house or take him to the corner
or tell him not to drive until he cleared up his
license. They could do that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They could tell him
not to drive until he clears up his license?
MS. SCHWARZ: I -- yes. I mean, that would
be another alternative.
But the scenario that you are talking about
would be highly unlikely, and it would be almost in bad
faith if the police stopped him illegally, found out
that he had the suspended license, and then let him get
back in right away. That wouldn't be the way that the
police would normally do that, unless there was a way to
properly maintain the safety of the road -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How much time do they
have to wait? Justice Kagan brought up if the police go
to his home the next day. You've brought up attenuation
theory a number of times.
MS. SCHWARZ: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You -- I think now you
have answered, he gets back into the car, drives it
away, they can do nothing because it's too close to when
they discovered his record of -- his suspended license.
How much of an interval must there be? What
do you mean by attenuation doctrine?
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, that would be -
attenuation would be evaluated on a case-by-case basis,
Justice Ginsburg, but I would think if, even an hour
later, if the Petitioner brazenly drove by those same
officers, you know, thumbing his nose at them, hi, that
would be -- attenuation analysis would apply at that
point.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Because you could say that
if he got back in the car right after the stop, if the
police for some reason did not impound the car and he
got back in the car, that's another offense, and so by
your theory, then they could properly arrest him and use
all of this knowledge in a prosecution?
MS. SCHWARZ: And a court very well -- very
well may agree with you on that. My only qualm with
that is that when the officers illegally find out that
he has a suspended license and then to let him get back
in and immediately arrest him, it's sort of in bad
faith.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what -- what is that
word, the "bad faith"? I take it your rule is identical
if when they wrongly stop the car, they look up the
records, the records say he has no license, and in
addition, he's wanted on 17 drug warrants and for 3
triple axe murders. Again, you can't do anything about
it?
MS. SCHWARZ: No. No, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: What? Can you? You cannot
do anything about it or you can?
MS. SCHWARZ: You can.
JUSTICE BREYER: What? How?
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, the -- the warrants are
entirely different -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why?
MS. SCHWARZ: -- because of the Ker-Frisbie
doctrine. The warrants for -- for other cases are a
method by which the court brings the body of the
defendant to court. And so there is -
JUSTICE BREYER: So if, in fact, a policeman
stops a person without cause and learns as a result of
that that there are many warrants outstanding against
him, he then can arrest the person, and -- but can he
introduce those warrants into court as evidence or
whatever if it's relevant?
MS. SCHWARZ: Absolutely, he can bring them
in. But the warrants are not evidentiary.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose the way that the
policeman stops the person and gets the information
illegally is he takes an axe and breaks into the house,
the policeman, and thereby -- what I'm showing -- I just
think this case has lots of implications, and I'm
looking for a rule here that's going to work in a lot of
different situations.
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, there's -- actually, I'm
sorry, Justice Breyer, I'm not sure I follow.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you say that if, in
fact, he learns that this man from the public records is
a triple axe murderer -
MS. SCHWARZ: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- he can do nothing about
it, I said? And you said no, he can do something about
it. I just wanted to know the distinction.
MS. SCHWARZ: Okay. So there's different -
again, just to be clear, the warrant, the arrest
warrant, is not of evidentiary value, according to
the -- Davis. That's not something that would be
introduced in court. It's just a method for bringing
the defendant into court. And so in that case, they
would properly be allowed to arrest him. And if there
was -
JUSTICE BREYER: It happens to be a
description of the individual, not a warrant, he gets
from the public record which is read off to him when he
calls in, a description: A red tie. Can he use that
and introduce it into evidence?
I mean, is this case about -- what's it
about, driving? Or does it have broader implications?
I thought that the Court had held that any
public record at all is immune. Is that right? Immune
from the normal fruit of the poisonous tree rule.
MS. SCHWARZ: The New York Court of Appeals
rule categorically removes it, that's true.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, and I was testing
that. I want to know: Is that, in your opinion, a
correct rule in all cases?
MS. SCHWARZ: No. And in fact, one of
the -
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, not an incorrect
rule, the opposite rule. No rule.
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, it's -- the problem with
that rule, the categorical rule, is that it will create
a fresh incentive for police officers to make these kind
of suspicionless stops, and so it will encourage police
to violate the Fourth Amendment, and not only -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not -- not if you allow the
suppression of the policeman's identification of the
individual driving the car. I mean, that -- nobody's
contending that that can't be suppressed. So if you
can't bring in the policeman to say, yes, this fellow
Smith, whose record we have here, was the fellow driving
the car. Once that's out, what incentive is there to
make these suspicionless stops?
MS. SCHWARZ: Because -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What I'm saying is, you're
getting at it from the wrong end. What should have been
suppressed was the policeman's identification of the
person who was driving the car.
MS. SCHWARZ: Ah. Yes. And if -- and if
this case -- if this case -- we prevail, and this case
was returned to trial court, both of those issues would
be at play and would be litigated. The observations of
the defendant and the DMV records are both suppressible
fruit and both of them would be subject to suppression.
JUSTICE ALITO: But that's not the argument
you seem to be making. You want to suppress the
knowledge that the police derived from the stop that
Mr. Tolentino's license is suspended, and you would
allow an exception to that only if there was
attenuation. But why isn't the simpler solution to a
case like this that you can't suppress the knowledge of
matters that are in a government record, however you can
suppress observations by the police on the scene that
flow directly from the illegal stop?
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, again, our position is
that both of those items are properly suppressible. And
it's true in this circumstance that the observations
would probably subsume the need for the DMV records.
However, the observations may not be sufficient in
certain circumstances. And in those cases, it would be
more important -- it would be very important to have
both of the items suppressible, and there's no reason,
there's not -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought there was some
rule about not being able to suppress a person's
identity? You've been asked a couple of times why are
you going after the DMV record; you should go after the
police identification of Joe Smith or whoever. I
thought there was some rule that says the identity of
the person is not suppressible. Am I wrong about that?
MS. SCHWARZ: That -- that is a restatement
of the Ker-Frisbie doctrine, that essentially says that
a person cannot suppress himself, his body, in order to
defeat the jurisdiction of the court.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And so how does that fit
with your earlier answers that his identity here could
be suppressed? And then I'll ask a second question. If
you say that you can suppress his identity from
information they gained after the stop when they saw
him, why couldn't they say, well, we saw this man before
we stopped him?
MS. SCHWARZ: There's -- there's a
distinction between the identity and the elicitation of
his name, and the elicitation of his name which led to
the DMV records.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it -- it gets you
nowhere to say John Smith. You have to say John Smith
was driving the car. It's the driving of the car that
you want suppressed. That's not the identity. I mean,
John Smith, fine, you can say John Smith, John Smith,
John Smith all you like at court. It's -- it's not
going to get a conviction.
But when you say John Smith was driving the
car, then you are eliciting testimony from the officer
concerning information he would not have had but for the
stop, that John Smith was driving the car, right?
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, this Court has always
defined evidentiary fruit as something that -- of
evidentiary value which the public authorities have
caused an arrested person to yield to them during an
illegal detention, and that's from the Davis case. And
the DMV records would fit that definition of evidentiary
fruit.
And in this case, because it is the classic
situation where there's sufficient causal connection
between the Fourth Amendment violation and the
subsequent discovery of the evidence to justify
suppression, there's no reason not to apply the
exclusionary rule here, and in fact, it meets all the
definition of the sort of case where there would be very
high level of deterrence as a result of applying the
exclusionary rule.
I see that I have 5 minutes. I would like
to reserve the rest of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Schwarz.
Ms. Halligan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CAITLIN J. HALLIGAN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. HALLIGAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I would like to start with your question,
Justice Breyer, about what the ruling below was and
what's at stake in this case. What the court of appeals
held was quite narrow. It said -- and I'm reading from
page 105a of the appendix: "We merely hold that a
defendant may not invoke the fruit of the poisonous tree
doctrine when the only link between improper police
activity and the disputed evidence is that the police
learned the defendant's name."
So the court of appeals is focusing on the
fact that all that was elicited here is the name of the
defendant, and that's appropriate. Asking a name is
fundamental to any encounter between police and
citizens, and that's because the officer -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're suggesting that
it's okay for the police to walk up to any citizen,
anywhere, and say, you're under arrest until you give me
your name?
MS. HALLIGAN: Absolutely not, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, there's -- there's
been no doubt here that it was a stop without suspicion.
That's been presumed. So how is that different from
what I just asked you -
MS. HALLIGAN: Because -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That they took a person
randomly, detained them without any suspicion, and said
give me your name. Are you suggesting that that's okay?
MS. HALLIGAN: No, I'm not. The legality of
the stop here has not been adjudicated. We are
presuming that the police acted illegally.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I am presuming. I know
that there's counter-arguments to that.
MS. HALLIGAN: We are not at all challenging
this Court's decisions, certainly not Delaware v. Prouse
or any others, which hold that the police may not stop
someone without basis and may not certainly enforce the
sort of statute that was at issue in Hiibel without some
basis for asking for identification.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So isn't the eliciting
of the name as a result of an unlawful stop something
that could be suppressed?
MS. HALLIGAN: It should not be subject to
suppression, and that's a distinct question from whether
or not there was a constitutional violation that
occurred in the stop and the asking of the name.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The name is different
than the person, the body of the person, which has to do
with the Court's jurisdiction. But why isn't the name
any different than a wallet that's in somebody's pocket
or a shirt or a hat, whatever is on the person? Why is
a name not subject to suppression?
Let's go past what happens here, because I
understand the disconnect between the name, the DMV
record, and seeing the person driving. How we tie those
together are a different issue. But you made a bold
statement when you started. You said that the police
securing a name is never suppressible.
MS. HALLIGAN: Because it has ae unique
status, as this Court recognized in Hiibel, in the
criminal justice system. Asking for a name is a routine
and accepted part of any stop because the officer needs
to know who he's dealing with. He faces an inordinate
risk, as this Court noted in Mimms and most recently in
Arizona v. Gant, of being shot when he approaches a car.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What's the difference
between stopping a car and stopping a person on the
street, as Justice Sotomayor asked? You can't stop
somebody on the street for no reason. The person looks
to you suspicious, so you stop the person and say: Tell
me your name. For a Terry stop, you have to have
reasonable suspicion. So why isn't it the same for
somebody who is driving a car?
MS. HALLIGAN: I think it is the same in
terms of what the Fourth Amendment requires, and
Delaware v. Prouse holds that. We're not taking issue
with that or asking this Court to retreat from that.
What we are saying is that where all that is
elicited is the name, it's not appropriate to apply the
exclusionary rule, which is a very distinct question.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, Ms. Halligan, suppose -
you're suggesting there should be an exception for
knowledge of identity. Suppose there were a clearly
illegal search and the government is looking for a head
of some kind of criminal syndicate and knows this only
by an alias, all right; and -- and finds out as a result
of this illegal search -- pick your -- pick your alias,
you know, John Smith -- finds out, you know -- finds out
that this person whose house they're searching is John
Smith, is the head of this criminal syndicate.
Can the government then use that knowledge
of identity, knowledge that this person goes under this
alias, in order to build a case around this guy?
MS. HALLIGAN: In your hypothetical I'm not
sure whether there would be any Fifth Amendment issues
that would be at play, but -
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, they find out this
person's alias as the result of the illegal search, and
that allows them to build a substantial criminal case.
MS. HALLIGAN: If all that is obtained is
the name, then the exclusionary rule should not be
applied.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So there's a diary, and it
says: I am John Smith. That's Keyser Soze.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KAGAN: I am Keyser Soze. That
would not be suppressible?
MS. HALLIGAN: The diary itself, the
document would be suppressible. The knowledge that that
person is the -- is Keyser Soze would not be subject to
suppression, and knowledge should never be something
that is subject to suppression, in any event.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that when -- when
the police stopped this particular car, they saw that
Mr. Tolentino was smoking marijuana or snorting cocaine
or drinking from a bottle of alcohol or he had somebody
tied up, bound and gagged on the back seat of the car.
Now, all of those things would clearly be the fruit -
all those observations would clearly be the fruit of the
allegedly illegal stop, right?
MS. HALLIGAN: That's correct, and -
JUSTICE ALITO: Even though they were in
plain view, they would all be suppressed, right?
MS. HALLIGAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: But you're saying that the
observation that Mr. Tolentino is at the wheel of the
car, that is not suppressed?
MS. HALLIGAN: I would like to distinguish
between the observation of the person driving the car,
to the extent that you might have a case in which that
observation is made after the stop as opposed to before
the stop; that's a different and distinct question.
It's not presented in the case that's before the Court
right now -- from the question of whether the
exclusionary rule should be applied when only the name
is elicited.
The observations, it may be as -- as Justice
Ginsburg suggested that under Crews, because the
physiognomy of a person -- five justices determined
there the appearance is not something that's subject to
suppression, the police officer's observation that it
was in fact this individual who looks like this driving
the car would not be subject to suppression, either.
But that's not presented. All that is at issue here is
whether or not the elicitation of the name and the
records directly linked to that are subject to
suppression.
JUSTICE BREYER: He made a mistake and said:
I'm driving the car.
MS. HALLIGAN: Pardon?
JUSTICE BREYER: He made a mistake. He said
in court: I was driving the core -- car. He never
should have said it. All right, now once he said it,
now we know he's driving the car.
MS. HALLIGAN: Well -
JUSTICE BREYER: So now you're saying why
does this case even come up? Because once you have his
name, the second he said it in court you could go up
looking his -- you could go look at his -- his records
anyway; you could find all these -- the facts about him
which I guess could you bring in.
MS. HALLIGAN: Well, that's right, and
that's why part of why a name should not be -
JUSTICE BREYER: So this case shouldn't be a
special rule, it should just be a case of -- what is it
called? It's a doctrine, you would have found it
anyway; inevitable discovery.
MS. HALLIGAN: You could resolve the case on
the theory that by definition government records that
are previously held -
JUSTICE BREYER: But they're only inevitably
discovered if he makes a mistake of saying what his name
is. No, no, not that -- the mistake of saying: I was
driving the car. And then, as Justice Scalia pointed
out, maybe you could suppress that, so it would -- it
would -
MS. HALLIGAN: In this case the question of
any observations of the defendant is waived. It was
abandoned by operation of State law. You could have
another case in which that at issue.
JUSTICE BREYER: Wait. One -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I was going to ask that.
She said that -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why is -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- your -- your friend said
that it was raised below. What -- what happened to it?
MS. HALLIGAN: What happened is this: In
the suppression motion initially, the defendant sought
to suppress a number of things, including the
observations of the police. The trial court judge did
not rule specifically on that aspect of the suppression
motion. The trial court judge said that there would be
a suppression hearing on the statement that the
defendant made, but there would not be a suppression
hearing with regard to the DMV records because DMV
records were not subject to suppression.
At that point the defendant pled guilty, and
so by operation of State law -- because first of all
there was not a ruling specifically on the question of
observations and the defendant failed to bring that to
the trial court judge's attention, and because the
guilty plea was taken, and you can only appeal when you
plead guilty on a suppression motion where there's a
final order, there's no final order on the observation.
That's out of the case, that would be our position.
You could have a subsequent case where that
question would be presented if, in fact, an officer does
not see a defendant until after he approaches the car,
and in that case he would have to determine whether or
not Crews and the five justices, which says the
physiognomy of the defendant is not subject to
suppression, controls and therefore allows the
observations to come in; but it's not presented here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you -- is your
position that they can do anything in terms of the
search of a name? Could they punch it into Google or
something like that and find out a lot more than just
what they have in their own possession?
MS. HALLIGAN: I think that would be
correct, Your Honor, but here you have records that not
only are in the government's possession -- and this
Court never has suggested -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know -- I know it
raises a different question, but you know, you keep
saying they're just -- or you know, you're just talking
about the name, but names are meaningless in the
abstract. It's not just that the officer wants to know
what to call him. It's what he wants to find out from
the name.
MS. HALLIGAN: The -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And these days
there's so many electronic databases, you can find out
an awful lot just, you know, with the punch of a few -
a few buttons.
MS. HALLIGAN: You could, and I think that
that's why if the Court was concerned about the
potential breadth of that holding, it could narrow it to
the use of the name to link to government records. In
the field, in particular, what an officer is going to
look for is records that suggest danger, so for example
what the officers have in New York State is they -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but it's not
limited to suggesting danger or whatever. It's -- it
can -- that may be what the officer on the scene is most
interested in, of course, but once you get the guy's
name you're interested in a lot of things.
MS. HALLIGAN: That's right, and that's
because you are in the process of conducting some sort
of investigation, and to suppress the knowledge of
someone's identity would -- would blink reality.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they're not
suppressing the knowledge of somebody's identity. All
that -- what's being suppressed is the evidence of
criminal activity that you derive from that.
MS. HALLIGAN: I think it's very different
than when you have drugs in a car which could clearly be
subject to suppression. All that you have here, first
of all, that's elicited, is the name. The name itself
is not subject to suppression, nor did the defendant
seek to have it suppressed, as the court of appeals
observed. And so that should be the end of the inquiry.
If the antecedent piece of evidence is not subject to
suppression then there's no poison that can flow from
that to contaminate anything like the DMV record.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could I go back and -
JUSTICE KAGAN: I think that that's not
right, Ms. Halligan, because the search is the poisonous
tree. Now, it might be that the name can't be
suppressed, but it still might be that everything that's
discovered as a result of knowing the name, which would
never be discovered unless the search had taken place,
could be suppressible.
MS. HALLIGAN: Two points, Justice Kagan. I
believe, first of all, that if the name is not
suppressed and then something flows from the name, I
don't think that you can skip that step and then
suppress something that comes further down the road.
But, secondly, the fact that these records were already
in the government's possession is precisely what takes
this outside the scope of the fruits doctrine. The
fruits -- fruits doctrine has been held to apply
repeatedly in cases where the evidence is in some sense
the product of the illegal government activity. These
records are simply not the product of any government
activity.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Why does it -
JUSTICE ALITO: Could I go back and ask you
to -- to explain what -- how you -- you think the -- the
request for suppression of the police officer's
observation was waived? That was raised in the motion
to suppress, page 17A of the joint appendix.
MS. HALLIGAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Now, the -- the New York
Supreme Court apparently didn't understand that that
issue was in the case and ruled only on suppression of
the records and tangible evidence, is that right, 78A?
MS. HALLIGAN: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the -- what is Mr.
Tolentino supposed to do at that point to preserve the
issue of the suppression of a police officer's
observation?
MS. HALLIGAN: To preserve the issue, Mr.
Tolentino should have raised that fact to the judge,
should have pointed it out pursuant to CPLR 71070,
subsection (2). There's also case law explaining that
when that happens, that is the obligation of the
defendant and the defendant cannot raise the issue on
appeal if it's not brought to the attention of the trial
court judge at that point.
JUSTICE ALITO: The defendant raises an
issue before the trial judge, the trial judge ignores
that issue, misses the issue -
MS. HALLIGAN: And then the defendant pleads
guilty.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- and then the defendant
waives the issue unless the defendant says by the way,
you missed -- you failed to address one of the arguments
that I made?
MS. HALLIGAN: At the point at which the
defendant pleads guilty, that is correct, Your Honor.
The defendant pled guilty prior to seeking any ruling on
that, specifically, or any clarification. None of this
is -- is briefed before the Court, but the defendant
also did not raise the issue of the observations in the
brief to the intermediate State appellate court, the
State court of appeals or this Court. So it has been
deemed abandoned a long time ago. And in the oral
argument before the New York Court of Appeals, the
defendant seemed to concur in the fact that it had been
abandoned.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You -- you make the
point that these records are already in the government's
possession.
MS. HALLIGAN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, isn't that
true of everything that's available on any type of
database? Everything in Google or whatever the other
search engines are is in the government's possession in
the sense that they've got it; all they've got to do is
identify it in their search, and they've got it.
MS. HALLIGAN: Well, this is in the
government's possession in the literal sense of the
word, and in fact to correct something that was said
previously, although it's not in the record, the DMV
records, along with other records, such as arrest
warrants, are in fact in the NYPD's possession. They
use a database that the State police generate which they
download onto their server. So they have it in their
actual possession, which is different from -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it can't make
a difference on whose server it is, does it?
MS. HALLIGAN: No, I'm simply saying that it
is in their possession.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It is information
that they can get if they have the correct way of
searching it, which is here by name.
MS. HALLIGAN: And -- and the fact that they
are drawn to the records because they have stopped this
individual and they have this name does not disqualify
them from using those records. This Court has cited
several times with approval to a case called Bynum in
the D.C. circuit in which there were prints that were
taken following an illegal detention, and those prints
were suppressed. The prosecution knew that the
defendant had committed the crime, because those prints
had been taken and matched, and the defendant -- or the
prosecution was allowed to use a set of prints that it
already had in its files on retrial.
The same thing happened in both Davis and
Hayes. In fact, in both of those cases, there were
convictions on remand, and the prosecution's attention
was drawn to the defendant only following some illegal
activity.
I would like to -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you something
about the practice in New York? I mean, there is an
artificiality to this case because we are assuming that
the stop was unlawful.
MS. HALLIGAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the police said it
was lawful, because the radio was blasting so loud. Why
did this issue even -- the issue of "suppose it was
unlawful" even come up, instead of the city or the
county saying what the police stopped him for was a
traffic violation, was perfectly legal? Why get to the
constitutional question when the prosecutor brought into
play the argument that this was a lawful stop?
MS. HALLIGAN: The prosecutor made two
arguments on the -- in response to the suppression
motion. One was that the DMV records were not subject
to suppression as a category. The second was, as you
say, that the stop was legal. The trial court judge
ruled only on the first ground and did not hold a
hearing to adjudicate the facts of the stop, and so
that's why it comes to you in this posture.
JUSTICE ALITO: It does seem rather strange.
That would have been, like, a 10-minute hearing. Why
did you stop him? Well, he was playing the music too
loud. Defendant testifies, I wasn't playing my music
too loud. The trial judge says, Well, I believe you, or
I believe you, and that's the end of the matter. It
does seem really -- that's how things are done in trial
court in New York City? You jump to these big
constitutional issues and -
MS. HALLIGAN: I'm not sure that anyone
realized that this case would -- would eventually come
before this Court, but that is the way this particular
case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Of course we know it's too
loud. It's always too loud.
MS. HALLIGAN: There's actually a provision
of the New York City Administrative Code, Your Honor,
which is on point -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are these things
public records? If I wanted to find out if you had
been, you know, stopped for driving without a license,
can I find that out?
MS. HALLIGAN: Frankly, I think that's a
difficult question, Your Honor. There are certain
entities to which driving records can be disclosed
pursuant to the Federal Driver's Privacy Protection Act,
and there are also certain restrictions. So I think the
answer to your question would depend on who was asking.
But they are certainly the administrative adjudications
that are made by a judge in traffic court, and in that
sense, they are every bit as valid a record as the
decision of any other court. There are simply certain
protections with respect to DMV records specifically.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Your government records
argument, is it limited to New York City records or does
it also apply to FBI records, to records of other cities
and states which, presumably, would be available on a
reciprocal basis?
MS. HALLIGAN: I think it would apply to
records available on a reciprocal basis, Your Honor.
I would like to touch on the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, do you see no
difference between Crews and Bynum, in the typical case
where the evidence against the defendant is not
developed as a result of an illegal stop -- it exists
independent of that stop -- and one in which the stop
itself creates the ground for arrest? Don't you see a
difference between those two things?
MS. HALLIGAN: I guess I would say that what
creates the grounds for arrest here is the fact that the
individual was driving with a suspended license, and
no -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there was no
suspicion of that when that person was stopped. The
suspicion to arrest arose not independent of the
illegality, but as part of it.
MS. HALLIGAN: But so, too, with Bynum. It
was the match of the prints that caused the prosecutor
to realize that this individual was guilty -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But all of the evidence
at trial really had nothing to do with the fingerprint.
It had to do with the victims and everyone else walking
in and saying, That's the guy who did lie to me.
MS. HALLIGAN: I believe in Bynum, Your
Honor, the prints were critical, and here the only
element -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In the arrest.
MS. HALLIGAN: No, in the adjudication
itself. The appellate decision -- may I finish my
answer? -- on remand in Bynum went back, suggests that
the ability to locate those prior prints in the FBI file
was essential to the conviction there.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Halligan.
MS. HALLIGAN: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Shah.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PRATIK A. SHAH,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE
MR. SHAH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Petitioner seeks to suppress official
records that were lawfully in the State's possession
before any Fourth Amendment violation occurred. That
unprecedented request should be rejected for three
reasons.
One, the DMV records were accessed merely
through use of Petitioner's name; two, those records
were produced and possessed by the State long before the
allegedly illegal stop at issue; and, three, deterrence
does not outweigh the costs, the substantial costs of
suppression under the circumstances present here.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is everything that
the government has access to through any database
considered in the government's possession?
MR. SHAH: No, I don't -- I don't think I
would go that far in terms of our government records
argument. I think it would have to be information -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you said -- as
you phrased it, I thought it was in the government's
possession.
MR. SHAH: Right, effectively in the
government's possession I think would be the standard.
So here I think we're talking, not about Google, but I
think we're talking about governmental records.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what's the
difference? In either case, they need some search term,
and then they will get the answers. I don't see why it
makes a difference.
MR. SHAH: I think for the governmental
records part of our argument, that rationale is an
independent rationale. The key part of it is that the
information was actually in the government's possession
before the Fourth Amendment violation occurred. I think
it's fairer to say that governmental records that are
produced and owned and possessed by the government
qualify. I think it's a harder argument to make that
something -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what if -- I'm
sorry, go ahead.
MR. SHAH: That something might be -- that
something that could be found by using Google was
already in the government's possession before the
violation occurred.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what if it's
in the -- the government of Colorado's possession, and
they have an arrangement with New York that they will
let them check their files to find out, you know,
whatever it is, nationwide or something? Does that -
your argument apply to that?
MR. SHAH: I think it could. I think it
would depend on the arrangement. If it's a fully
reciprocal arrangement that effectively allows the State
full access to those records, then I think it may be
tantamount to the State having effective possession.
JUSTICE KAGAN: How about private databases
that are going to be available to the government upon
request?
MR. SHAH: I think -- I think that's
stretching it a little bit further. That's a little bit
harder. Again, if it were the case that the State could
be said to have effectively have possession of those
records because, for example, a copy of them are sitting
on their servers or they have such full access that even
though they're prepared by a private database, the State
has paid for them, so they're effectively State records,
that may also fall within the scope. But those are
questions that are essentially pushing the boundary of
what's effectual -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why? The facts of this
case, I find confusing. Let's imagine the policeman
goes with a hatchet and breaks into somebody's house
illegally.
MR. SHAH: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: And there, he sees on the
desk the name is Dagwood. With other information, he
goes to a certain alley and starts shouting "Dagwood"
and people shower him with drugs. You have no doubt, if
that is the fruit of the poisonous tree, an out,
correct?
MR. SHAH: I think if I understand your -
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, that's how they -
they knew the name, they got the evidence, they get to
the place. Without the name, they wouldn't have gotten
the drugs.
MR. SHAH: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Out, right?
MR. SHAH: If I understand the hypothetical,
they break into someone's house -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, illegally. Very
illegally.
MR. SHAH: Right, and they find -
JUSTICE BREYER: His name.
MR. SHAH: They find the defendant's name?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, correct.
MR. SHAH: Right. The defendant's name
itself is not suppressible under these -
JUSTICE BREYER: I just wondered if you were
going to also say in my example, which I could make more
realistic with more time, which you don't want to give
me, the -- but -- that he uses the name, and as a result
gets all kinds of evidence in the form of drugs, murder
victims, whatever you want. Have you any doubt that
that would be suppressible?
MR. SHAH: I think the government could have
an argument that the fruits would not be suppressible.
JUSTICE BREYER: They're not suppressible
simply because you get them through a name? You break
into a house, get a name; as a result of the name, you
know what criminal enterprise to go to; as a result of
that criminal enterprise going to, you get every
evidence under the sun, absolute direct connection. And
you say that's not suppressible?
MR. SHAH: A couple of responses, Your
Honor. There is, first, already extensive deterrent
value from -
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, okay. I just wanted
to know the ultimate response.
MR. SHAH: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now assume it's the
opposite response. If it's the opposite response, for
state of argument, how is it any different whether he's
showered with drugs or showered with government records?
MR. SHAH: Okay. So I think my -- my
response is that the fruits are not necessarily
suppressible in your -- in your hypothetical.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know. I wanted you to
assume the opposite. I got -- you win if my
hypothetical -- if it's not even drugs, it's not even
government records. But if it is drugs, why isn't it
government records? This won't hurt you very much,
because often there will be an alternative source, but
suppose there isn't. Why are government records
different from drugs?
MR. SHAH: Right. Because the government
already possesses those records. Those records were
within the government's possession before any Fourth
Amendment violation occurred. It would be depriving the
government of information it already had, and there is
no precedent within this Court's Fourth Amendment
jurisprudence that would -
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose they -- they -- they
break into the house with an axe, and they find out the
name, they see this guy is Dagwood, and so they run that
through their -- their database, and they find this is
the guy we've been looking for, for the last 20 years.
He is responsible for all the drugs that come into this
country, he's committed numerous acts of terrorism, he's
a -- he's a serial killer, he's killed 50 people, we've
been chasing him forever, and so the -- the result would
be all that knowledge, that this is Dagwood is the fruit
of the poisonous tree and nothing can be done about
Dagwood?
MR. SHAH: No, no, Your Honor. I want to be
very clear. My response is that that is not subject to
suppression. And -- and -- and even my friend on the
other side conceded that if it were an -- an outstanding
arrest warrant such as in your hypothetical that would
lead to of the name, even if the name were a fruit of an
illegal stop or search, that that arrest warrant would
still provide a basis to arrest the defendant and
prosecute the defendant.
Now, it may be that other fruits that are
discovered in the home or statements taken from the
defendant in the home would be suppressed, but certainly
the prosecution could proceed under the Ker-Frisbie
Rule, and any preexisting evidence that this person was
an axe murderer or whatever else evidence that the
government had would certainly still be admissible in
the prosecution for whatever.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You mentioned some -
before you finish, you -- you said a name is not
suppressible, and that's because this Court held -- we
started out by saying the observation of the person that
dropped out of this case, so we're talking only about
records, but the extraction of a name, you say that's
not suppressible, even though it was unlawfully
extracted because there were no reasonable suspicions
that this person did anything wrong?
MR. SHAH: Yes -- yes, Your Honor, we would
say that a name is different, that it's not
suppressible, and we would rely on the language this
Court used in Lopez-Mendoza, which says the respondent's
body or identity is never suppressible, even if it's
obtained as a result of an illegal search, seizure or
interrogation.
We think name is -- is part and parcel of a
defendant's identity, and that it has a special status
within -- within the criminal justice system.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Shah, how would you
think about this problem? Suppose the police start
stopping people and rather than asking for your name,
they take a blood sample, they prick your finger, and
then they take that blood and they look in their very
extensive DNA databases, and they discover, oh, this is
a guy who, you know, did these various terrible things,
and start building cases. Would that be all right?
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I think other types
of biometric evidence that you suggest, for example, of
blood evidence, might well implicate competing
considerations that would dictate a different result.
And let me suggest a couple of the competing
considerations, why I think the Court doesn't need to
reach so far and say all sorts of biometric information
should be treated the same.
For -- for one -- for one thing, things like
a name or even a fingerprint, this Court has said is not
a separate Fourth Amendment event to acquire that. For
example, once someone is detained, it's not also a
search to ask for their name or to take a fingerprint.
However, in your example, pricking someone
with a needle to obtain their blood would be a separate
Fourth Amendment event, because that would be a separate
invasion of their -- of their bodily integrity, privacy,
and that might warrant different considerations, since
there are two violations there. There might be a need
for greater deterrent.
I think the other sort of consideration that
might be implicated in -- in that type of hypothetical
is that evidence unlike a name or fingerprint, DNA
evidence, for example, that you suggest, might provide
competing considerations in the sense that it could lead
to other types of information that not -- that may not
be relevant to the criminal justice system, medical
records, genetic information. It may pose a specter of
other competing considerations that might require a
different balance in the end.
I think it would be premature for this Court
to weigh in one way or another as to whether that would
be appropriate. I think we would need a record and we
would want time to -- to -- to -- we would want that to
play out and see -- and see what the consequences were.
So I don't think the Court has to go that far. I think
the Court can limit it, as in this case, to name,
fingerprints and other traditionally -- other
information traditionally used to identify a defendant.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Shah.
Ms. Schwarz, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KRISTINA SCHWARZ
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. SCHWARZ: I would first just like to
address Justice Breyer's concern about what the rule
should be, and -- excuse me. So long as there's
sufficient causal relationship between the Fourth
Amendment violation and the later discovery of evidence,
this Court has expressed continued allegiance to this
rule. So in this case the reason why the DMV records
are suppressible fruit is it fits that classic
definition.
Why are the observations suppressible when
the identity isn't? That's another issue that was
raised. The observations are -- again, they fit the
definition whereas the identity does -- does not fit
that. The Ker-Frisbie rule prevents a person himself
from being suppressible, but the elicitation of his name
is something entirely separate. So in other word, in
the Crews case a majority of the Court said that a -- a
person could not suppress their person or their face
from being in court; five of the justices said that; but
five justices said that the in-court identification
could under certain circumstances be suppressible. So
they drew a distinction between the person's body being
brought into court, which is not suppressible because of
the Ker-Frisbie rule, and then the evidentiary use of
the identity, the fact that the five of the justices
said that in certain circumstances not applicable in
that case, the in-court identification could be
suppressible shows the distinction. And that's the
distinction that has been -- is confusing about this
case, because the elicitation of his name is what led to
the DMV records. But even if this Court found that the
elicitation of the name was not sufficient or was
somehow related to Ker-Frisbie and could not be
suppressible, the DMV records directly flow from the
Fourth Amendment violation here, from the Prouse
violation. And so it really doesn't really matter.
Especially in light of the decision in Whren
to remove subjective motivations from the determinations
of constitutional reasonableness in car stops, it's
essential to enforce what remains of motorists' core
Fourth Amendment rights; and the Whren standards just
must be enforced; otherwise these core Fourth Amendment
values will be undermined and police will be left free
to stop people on the roads with no objective basis and
check their ID and status and do fishing expeditions
into this sea of data that will be linked to the police
computers; and this would violate Prouse and Brown and
Hiibel.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And I suppose would
subject the police officers to liability, though, right?
In civil actions?
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, again, this is a classic
case where there's a clear relationship, a causal
relationship, so this is the sort of case where this
Court has continued allegiance to application of the
exclusionary rule where the exclusionary rule is very
strong; and so why would the Court say that the second
sister of the exclusionary rule, in this circumstance
where there's sufficiently deliberate, that exclusion
would be meaningful and sufficiently culpable, that the
evidence would be -- that application of the rule would
be worth the cost? In this situation there's no reason
to abandon the exclusionary rule.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, are you
agreeing with your adversary that you abandoned and are
not entitled to raise the suppressibility of the
observation?
MS. SCHWARZ: No. Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And if you're not, in
what ways is it tied to the question presented about
identity, which is the issue you sought cert on?
MS. SCHWARZ: Right. I -- I have no qualms
in my adversary explaining that the question presented
was limited because of the procedure, of the way the
trial court's decision was made. However if this Court
remanded the case, the question of whether the
observations were suppressible would be very much at
play.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why? Because when he
entered a guilty plea, you reserved only the question
concerning the motor vehicle records; you didn't reserve
any other questions.
MS. SCHWARZ: Well, but at the suppression
hearing, the -- the court would be free to consider all
of the suppressible fruit, including the -- the
statement that was made and the observations and also
the DMV records.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:04 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
55:13 agree 4:19 17:8 answers 6:16 arguments 36:24
56:15
apparently 36:1 arrest 11:7,9,24 17:10 28:24
8:22 36:15 17:5,11 18:10 42:22
21:7 appeals 4:4 19:7,12 24:25 bad 16:2 17:11
29:4,7 19:24 24:11,18 38:2 41:24 42:2 17:14
35:19,25 34:17 37:8,10 42:7,19 49:15 balance 52:9
40:3 appearance 49:17,18 based 9:14
29:22 arrested 5:15 basis 16:20
43:16 appellate 37:7 artificiality 39:9 54:17
appendix 24:13 22:3 25:6 26:25 1:22 2:4,7,10
application 4:6 27:9 41:5 50:24 behold 6:7
35:15,17
applied 28:9 Assistant 1:20 8:15 13:18 35:6
16:24 23:20 attention 32:8 biometric 51:6
41:13,16 45:7 attenuate 13:14 bit 41:8 45:17,17
52:25
23:18 approaches 11:18,21 13:19 blink 34:7
28:2 43:10 26:22 32:15 15:1 16:10,18 blood 50:25 51:1
48:20,22 appropriate 16:20,24 21:12 51:7,19
53:3 24:20 27:11 Attorney 1:18 bodily 51:21
52:12 attorney's 10:16 body 18:5 22:10
argument 1:12 authority 15:4,7 53:20
16:24 21:7 24:5 37:10 41:14,17 45:14 bottle 28:23
41:6
14:6 43:4,25 44:13 axe 17:18 18:17 boundary 45:25
48:25 calls 19:17 35:14 39:2 51:4 circumstances confusing 46:3
car 3:14,25 4:3 16:20 43:18 53:19,24 connection 23:17
6:8,19 8:7,9,13 20:9 cities 41:13 consequences
12:1,9,12 8:14,20 9:6,8 categorically citizen 24:24 52:14
17:13 9:12 10:1,4,6 19:25 citizens 24:22 consider 56:7
10:21 11:8,19 category 39:23 city 39:15 40:10 consideration
12:5,11,13,14 causal 23:17 40:19 41:12 51:25
19:3,14 12:20,23,24 53:2 55:1 civil 54:24 considerations
24:10 13:9,23,24 14:5 cause 3:22 8:20 clarification 37:4 51:8,10,22 52:4
14:10,23,23 10:21 18:8 classic 23:16 52:8
46:2 15:9,16 16:14 caused 23:12 53:6 54:25 considered 7:1
17:2,3,4,15 42:10 clear 19:7 49:12 43:22
47:2,5,14 20:15,19,25 cert 55:19 55:1 constitutional
48:2,9 22:25,25 23:6,8 certain 21:22 cleared 10:15 26:2 39:18
30:18 32:15 34:13 49:22 50:1 clears 15:23 contending 20:16
54:12 chain 5:19 clear-cut 13:20 continue 10:7
39:18 18:19 19:11,19 check 45:5 54:18 come 30:14 42:24
21:2,2,2,13 checked 6:5 32:20 39:15 convictions 39:3
24:11 27:25 Chief 3:3,9 13:21 comes 35:9 40:2 core 30:9 54:13
42:9,16 39:9 40:13,15 38:11 40:21 54:20 46:12 47:2
41:20 44:9 42:25 43:3,6,20 conceded 49:14 cost 55:10
46:3 50:7 44:1,8,21 45:2 concern 52:25 costs 43:17,17
24:5 56:14 circuit 38:19 concur 37:11 counter-argum...
criminal 26:18 38:23 39:4 40:6 different 10:3 18:4 22:9 24:15
34:11 47:17,18 49:22 52:18 25:5 26:4,7,13 document 28:16
critical 42:17 24:17 47:1,3 34:12 38:6 48:4 47:10
51:9 curiae 1:22 2:11 defined 23:10 51:8,22 52:9 drawn 38:15 39:4
cuts 13:17 23:22 31:1 53:7 41:1 drinking 28:23
4:4 5:2 D Delaware 3:11 directly 21:16 12:22 15:18,20
10:16 D 3:1 25:17 27:8 30:3 54:7 15:23
17:7 18:5 Dagwood 46:8,9 deliberate 55:7 disclosed 41:2 driver 8:10,18
19:10 49:1,8,10 Department 1:21 disconnect 26:11 13:22
danger 33:22,25 7:23 discover 51:2 driver's 8:7,10
22:11 23:3 data 54:19 depend 41:5 45:9 discovered 4:2 14:2 41:3
24:8,11,18 database 37:19 depriving 48:20 16:16 31:4 35:2 drives 12:5 13:7
27:9 38:4 43:21 derive 34:11 35:3 49:21 14:23 16:14
30:9,15 45:22 49:2 derived 21:9 discovery 23:19 driving 3:15 4:11
32:8 databases 33:14 description 30:24 53:3 4:15 5:13 6:8,9
34:17 45:13 51:2 19:15,17 dismisses 5:10 6:19 8:25 9:19
37:5,7 Davis 19:9 23:13 descriptive 8:17 disputed 24:16 10:7 11:3,8,20
38:17 39:1 desk 46:8 disqualify 38:16 13:22 14:12
40:10,14 day 9:3 13:9 detain 3:22 distinct 26:1 19:20 20:15,18
43:7 16:10 detained 25:9 27:12 29:14 20:25 22:25,25
51:10 days 33:13 51:16 distinction 19:5 23:5,8 26:12
52:10,15 dealing 26:20 detention 23:13 22:20 53:20 27:5 29:11,24
53:4,15 deals 7:10 38:20 54:1,2 30:6,9,11 31:6
54:4 decided 5:2 determinations distinguish 29:10 40:23 41:2 42:3
56:7 deciding 5:2 54:11 district 1:18 dropped 50:7
48:22 54:10 55:23 29:21 5:4 6:17,25 7:2 drugs 34:13
decisions 25:17 deterrence 23:23 7:8,19,21 21:5 46:10,17 47:9
defendant 15:8 developed 41:22 38:1 39:22
24:14,20 31:10 dictate 51:8 53:5 54:4,7 E 2:1 3:1,1
41:20 32:15,18 34:16 26:23 38:8 DNA 51:2 52:2 effective 45:12
36:14,14,17,20 41:20,25 44:9 doctrine 7:15 effectively 44:4
38:22 effectual 46:1
44:9 24:16 34:10,19 23:21 24:19 fishing 9:21 48:7 49:20
30:2 49:24,25 51:6,7 38:14 39:2 42:2 fits 53:6 24:21
54:3,5 52:2,3 53:3 53:23 five 29:21 32:17 further 9:18 35:9
29:18 evidentiary 7:2 46:2 flow 21:16 34:20
18:14 19:8 failed 32:7 36:24 54:7 G
53:22 faith 16:3 17:12 focusing 24:18 gagged 28:24
51:16,18 52:3 52:15 38:20 39:4 generate 38:4
exclusion 55:7 Federal 41:3 found 6:7 10:24 20:23
55:11 filed 6:3 20:12 23:18 39:7,12 50:3
53:14 exists 41:22 final 32:11,11 44:16 48:19,22 give 14:3,4 24:25
explain 35:20 46:3,24 47:1 56:7 34:22 35:19
55:21 finds 27:18,20,20 friend 31:17 47:17 52:15
expressed 53:4 finger 50:25 fruit 4:3,9,10,12 27:24 46:4,9
extracted 50:10 52:17 19:23 21:6 47:6,18
7:7,11 face 53:16 34:14 35:6 53:6 56:8 gotten 46:16
18:11 faces 26:20 39:25 47:22 fruits 35:12,13 government 3:21
23:19 fact 4:10,14 18:7 52:24 35:13 47:13 7:19,25 21:14
20:4 27:16,23 31:1
35:15,16 42:20 43:1,2 28:1 46:20 48:8 21:23,23 interest 9:14,17
43:21,24 happen 8:23 9:6 48:11 49:15 impound 9:6 interested 34:2,3
45:3,14 happened 31:18 52:1 12:11,13,14 interests 10:3
48:5,12 31:19 39:1 13:23 14:22 interference
happens 19:14 I 15:16 17:3 3:21
26:10 36:13 ID 54:18 impounding 9:11 intermediate
45:18 identification impoundment interrogation
33:3 hatchet 46:4 25:21 53:18,25 15:13 interval 16:17
37:14,20 Hayes 39:2 identify 3:19 improper 24:15 introduce 18:11
43:22 head 27:16,22 37:22 52:18 incentive 20:10 19:18
hear 3:3 identity 22:3,6 20:19 introduced 11:3
heard 11:6 22:13,15,20 including 31:21 19:10
56:7 53:9,11,23 independent 34:6
37:2,3 high 23:23 11:14 12:5 8:15 26:13 27:8 30:1
56:3 highly 16:2 14:14,15 21:16 indictment 5:10 31:12 36:2,7,9
15:17 26:17 54:21 28:5 29:2 35:15 19:15 20:15 36:23 37:6
42:15 hold 24:13 25:18 38:20 39:4 29:24 38:16 39:14,14 43:16
51:3 39:25 41:22 43:16 42:3,11 53:9 55:19
25:2,7 Honor 25:2 29:6 illegally 16:3 8:25 11:7 18:16 J
33:2 35:24 37:2 17:9 18:17 22:16 23:7 J 1:17 2:6 24:5
27:6,13 39:11 40:19 25:13 46:5,22 38:11 43:25 Joe 22:5
29:3 41:1,17 42:17 46:23 44:15 46:8 John 22:24,24
30:7,12 47:22 49:11 imagine 46:3 48:21 51:11 23:2,2,2,3,5,8
31:9 50:12 51:5 immediately 52:5,7,18 27:20,21 28:11
33:1,12 hour 16:21 11:20 14:22 initial 5:20,22 joint 35:23
34:4,12 house 13:8 15:19 17:11 15:2 JOSE 1:3
35:5,24 18:17 27:21 immune 19:22,22 initially 31:20 judge 5:9 31:22
37:1 46:4,21 47:16 implicate 51:7 inordinate 26:20 31:24 36:10,16
38:9 48:25 implicated 52:1 inquiry 34:18 36:18,18 39:24
39:11,20 hurt 48:13 implications integrated 8:1 40:7 41:7
hypothetical 18:19 19:20 integrity 51:21 judge's 32:8
42:1,9,16 important 7:2 jump 40:10
26:6 47:2,5,14,24 30:11 33:5,5,6 42:3 16:18 19:19
50:21,22 52:6 40:23 45:5 light 6:15 54:10 37:17 39:8
55:12,17 56:2 51:3 limited 33:25 meaning 8:3
6:2 56:12 knowing 35:2 41:12 55:22 meaningful 55:8
7:4,13 justices 29:21 knowledge 7:17 link 24:15 33:20 meaningless 8:2
32:17 53:17,18 17:6 21:9,13 linked 30:3 54:19 33:8
53:23 27:15,23,24 literal 37:24 meant 11:18
10:19,20 justification 3:25 28:16,18 34:6,9 litigated 21:4 medical 52:6
11:2,5,11 justify 23:19 49:8 little 45:17,17 meets 23:21
12:1,9 knows 27:17 lo 6:7 mentioned 50:3
K KRISTINA 1:15 locate 42:23 merely 24:13
Kagan 12:25 2:3,13 3:7 long 37:9 43:15 43:13
14:1,14 13:2,4,11,16 52:22 53:1 method 18:5
15:11 16:9 17:1 27:13 look 7:25 17:15 19:10
16:8,9 28:4,10,13 L 30:16 33:22 Mimms 26:21
17:1 34:23 35:5,18 language 50:14 51:1 minutes 23:25
41:11 45:13 Laughter 28:12 looked 12:4 52:21
50:22 law 7:20 14:9,12 looking 18:20 missed 36:24
19:3,14 keep 33:6 31:11 32:5 27:16 30:16 misses 36:19
Kennedy 8:21 36:12 49:3 mistake 30:5,8
22:1,12,23 9:5,11,16,22 lawful 39:13,19 looks 27:1 29:24 31:4,5
9:25 22:12 lawfully 7:6 43:9 Lopez-Mendoza mixed 10:20
40:16 lead 49:16 52:4 50:15 Monday 1:9
Ker-Frisbie 18:3 learned 24:17 lot 18:20 32:24 morning 3:4
28:4,10 22:9 49:23 learns 18:8,25 33:15 34:3 motion 3:23 4:23
29:4,7 53:12,22 54:6 leaves 9:3 lots 6:21 18:19 6:4 31:20,24
30:5,8,13 key 44:14 led 22:21 54:3 loud 39:13 40:6,7 32:10 35:22
31:3,6,13 Keyser 28:11,13 left 54:16 40:17,17 39:22
28:17 legal 39:17,24 motivations
33:5,13 kick 11:22 legality 25:11 M 54:11
34:8,22 killed 49:6 Let's 26:10 46:3 maintain 16:7 motor 7:23 56:4
35:5,18 killer 49:6 level 4:23 5:9 majority 53:15 motorists 54:13
36:5 kind 13:7 20:10 23:23 making 10:5 21:8 motorist's 3:15
37:13 27:17 liability 54:23 man 18:25 22:17 murder 47:9
38:7,11 kinds 47:9 license 5:14,19 March 1:9 murderer 19:1
40:3,16 knew 38:21 5:24 6:10,10,24 marijuana 28:22 49:25
41:11,19 46:15 8:5,7,10 9:1,8 match 42:10 murders 17:18
know 5:18 7:9 10:10,25 11:3 matched 38:23 music 40:5,6
9:2 12:3,19 11:14 12:3,4,20 matter 1:11 40:8
45:2 13:7 14:2,8,10 12:24 13:8 14:2 54:9 56:15 N
46:2,7,14 14:12 16:23 15:21,23 16:4 matters 21:14 N 2:1,1 3:1
20:2 25:14 16:16 17:10,16 mean 4:12 6:15 name 4:1 22:21
24:17,19 nose 16:23 official 43:8 49:6 50:24 pleads 36:20
25:1,10 noted 8:5 26:21 oh 9:1 51:2 54:17 37:2
26:3,4,6 number 14:6 okay 19:6 24:24 perfectly 39:17 please 3:10 24:8
16:11 31:21 25:10 46:6,19 permissible 43:7
28:8 numerous 49:5 47:24,24 48:6 14:11 pled 32:4 37:3
30:2,15 NYPD's 38:3 once 20:19 30:10 permit 9:17 pocket 26:7
31:4 30:14 34:2 person 3:17 4:10 point 16:25 32:4
33:8,11 O 51:16 4:14 5:18 8:24 36:6,16 37:1,14
34:3,15 O 2:1 3:1 operation 31:11 9:7 11:19 12:21 40:20
35:2,6 objective 54:17 32:5 12:22 14:12 pointed 31:6
38:13,16 obligation 36:13 opinion 20:2 15:4,5,19 18:8 36:11
46:8,15 observation 6:18 opposed 7:7 18:10,16 20:25 points 35:5
47:1,3 29:8,11,13,23 29:13 22:7,10 23:12 poison 34:20
32:11 35:22 opposite 20:7 25:8 26:5,5,8 poisonous 4:3,9
50:4 36:8 50:6 55:15 48:3,3,10 26:12,24 27:1,2 4:9,18 6:22
observations oral 1:11 2:2,5,8 27:21,24 28:17 7:24 11:13
52:2 6:25 21:4,15,19 3:7 24:5 37:9 29:11,21 42:6 19:23 24:14
53:13 21:21 29:1,19 43:4 49:24 50:6,11 34:24 46:11
31:10,22 32:7 order 7:17 9:9,18 53:12,16,16 49:9
56:9 original 13:17 Petitioner 1:4,16 8:4,16 9:23
52:12 obtained 28:7 49:14 43:8 52:23 20:10,11 21:9
30:9 33:4 45:1 48:20 29:21 32:18 31:22 35:21
50:16 offense 5:24 6:1 P pick 27:19,19 36:7 38:4 39:12
3:5 4:4 office 10:16 page 2:2 24:13 piece 34:19 54:16,19,23
6:4,24 officer 5:11,12 35:23 place 35:3 46:16 policeman 18:7
19:24 5:17 6:25 23:6 paid 45:23 plain 29:5 18:16,18 20:17
35:25 24:22 26:19 parcel 50:19 plate 8:6,7 46:3
39:8 32:14 33:9,21 Pardon 30:7 plates 8:9 policeman's
41:12 34:1 part 26:19 30:20 play 21:4 28:3 20:14,24
officers 16:23 42:8 44:13,14 39:19 52:14 pose 52:7
people 46:10
8:1 42:17,23 provision 40:18 reach 51:11 40:22 41:2,10
12:21 prior 8:1 37:3 public 7:9 9:14 read 19:16 41:11,12,13,13
32:25 33:3 42:23 9:16,18 10:18 reading 24:12 41:17 43:9,13
37:15,20 privacy 41:3 18:25 19:16,22 real 6:16 43:14,24 44:7
38:3,6,10 51:21 23:11 40:22 realistic 47:7 44:13,17 45:11
44:3,5 private 45:13,22 pull 8:20 reality 34:7 45:20,23 48:5
45:3 probably 8:22 punch 32:23 realize 42:11 48:12,13,15,18
48:19 21:20 33:15 realized 40:13 48:18 50:8 52:7
43:4 produced 43:15 pushing 45:25 27:1 53:5 55:10 15:6
product 35:15,16 p.m 56:14 3:17 9:23 27:4 related 6:3 54:6
10:12 qualify 44:19 54:12 release 10:15
32:14,20 prosecute 6:13 26:1 27:12 41:17 45:10 remains 54:13
14:18 49:19 29:14,16 31:9 recognized 26:17 remand 39:3
38:21,24 49:23 55:18,21,24 19:16,22 20:18 remind 12:7
39:3 45:25 56:5 38:1 41:8 52:12 removes 19:25
Protection 41:3 7:19,21,23 8:2 request 35:21
41:10 17:16,16 18:25 require 52:8
4:7 25:17 27:8 23:14 30:3,16 requires 27:7
36:10
roads 54:17 28:11 32:17 30:15 39:23 18:18
24:6 14:16,21 15:11 Scalia 4:8,17,19 securing 26:15 significance 7:3
50:15 32:21 33:5,13 22:23 31:6,14 13:9,13 15:8 simpler 21:12
47:25 37:13,17 38:7 scenario 16:1 41:19,24 44:10 38:9 41:9 47:15
49:12 38:11 40:21 scene 11:20 49:1 52:14,14 sister 55:6
23:23 17:14 18:20 9:13,20 10:2,22 seizure 3:13 Smith 20:18 22:5
27:18 19:23,25 20:3,7 11:1,4,10,17 50:17 22:24,24 23:2,2
35:2 41:22 20:7,7,9,9 22:2 11:25 12:7,11 sense 7:24 35:14 23:2,3,5,8
49:7 22:6 23:21,24 12:14,16,18,25 37:21,24 41:8 27:20,22 28:11
51:8 27:12 28:8 13:1,3,4,11,18 52:4 smoking 28:22
ruled 3:16 36:2 18:13,22 19:2,6 set 38:24 somebody's 26:7
6:2 10:4,25 ruling 24:10 32:6 21:1,17 22:8,19 43:3,4,6,23 someone's 34:7
37:3 23:9 24:3 52:21 44:4,12,23 45:8 46:21
14:4,24 run 49:1 52:22,24 54:25 45:16 46:6,13 sorry 9:2 13:2
17:2 19:2 55:16,20 56:6 46:18,20,24 18:23 44:22
23:8 S scope 35:12 47:1,3,12,21 sort 10:15 17:11
29:2,5,16 S 2:1 3:1 45:24 48:1,6,17 49:11 23:22 25:20
34:4 safety 9:14,17 sea 54:19 50:12,22 51:5 34:5 51:25 55:2
36:3 44:4 9:18 10:18 16:7 search 7:8 9:12 52:20 sorts 51:11
sample 50:25 27:16,19 28:5 shirt 26:8 Sotomayor 24:23
48:1,17 sanctioning 9:21 32:23 34:24 shortly 6:8 25:3,8,14,22
54:23 saw 22:16,17 35:3 37:20,22 shot 26:22 26:4,25 41:19
28:21 44:9 49:17 shouting 46:9 42:5,12,19
30:13 31:4,5 38:13 shower 46:10 55:19
38:9 39:16
17:15 21:9,16 51:6,9 52:3 suppression 6:4 takes 18:17
26:3,19,25 27:2 suggesting 24:23 28:18,19 29:23 44:6,7 50:7
32:6 37:4 39:10,19,24 33:25 31:20,23,25 tantamount 9:21
40:1,5 41:22,23 suggests 42:22 32:1,3,10,19 45:12
39:16 40:23 28:20 39:14 36:1 43:24
50:6 stopping 26:24 54:22 11:21 18:23 terrorism 49:5
31:11 32:5 20:11,20 54:12 suppress 3:23 suspended 5:14 testimony 23:6
37:7,8 strange 40:3 21:8,13,15 22:2 5:19 6:10 9:1 testing 20:1
43:15 street 26:25 27:1 22:10,15 31:7 16:4,16 17:10 Texas 3:16
stretching 45:17 31:21 34:6 35:9 21:10 42:3 Thank 24:2
48:4 strong 55:5 35:23 43:8 suspicion 3:12 42:25 43:2
31:25 25:25 26:9 suppressed 4:16 25:9 27:4 42:6 56:12
28:17,19 29:22 4:21 7:5 20:16 42:7 theory 16:11
32:18 34:14,16 23:1 25:24 29:5 20:11,20 thing 10:1 39:1
41:14 43:5 49:12 54:23 35:1,7 38:21 suspicious 27:2 things 10:25
54:18 56:15 suppressibility system 26:18 41:25 51:3,13
subsequent 5:24 suppressible 5:4 14:17,18 15:1
32:13 26:15 28:14,16 T 2:1,1 27:6 33:1,17
5:12,21,23 sufficient 21:21 53:6,8,13,19 take 10:12 12:21 43:25 44:5,6,7
6:6,8,18 23:17 53:2 54:5 53:21 54:1,7 13:23 14:5,10 44:12,16,19
10:21 sufficiently 55:7 55:25 56:8 15:5,5,19 17:14 45:8,8,11,16
11:15 55:8 suppressing 4:3 50:25 51:1,17 45:16 46:13
48:6 two 6:16 35:5 12:22 15:5,6 4:16 10:10 40:6 09-11556 1:5 3:4
51:5 39:20 41:25 56:4 way 8:23 13:21
52:10 43:14 51:23 Vehicles 7:23 14:21 16:5,6 1
type 37:18 52:1 vicinity 6:6 18:15 36:23 10-minute 40:4
44:2 typical 41:20 47:10 52:11 55:22 11:03 1:13 3:2
2 36:12
37:9 47:7 23:18 26:2 we've 49:3,6
11:15 2011 1:9
39:17 43:10 wheel 29:8
36:1 21 1:9
24 2:7
48:20 53:3 54:8 win 48:10
6:7,19 8:5 United 1:1,12,22 violations 51:23 wondered 47:5 3 2:4 17:17
28:22 2:10 43:5 word 17:14 37:25
36:6,10 unlawful 25:23 W 53:14 4
unlawfully 50:9 waived 31:10 worth 55:10 43 2:11
unprecedented waives 36:23 9:25 15:12 16:5 5
3:13 walks 5:10 22:7 50:11 52 2:14
11:13 43:14 53:22 47:7,10 49:11 X 78A 36:3
24:14 uses 47:8 52:13,13 x 1:2,7
46:11 wanted 17:17
26:22 wants 33:9,10 yield 23:12
21:3 31:22
warrant 19:7,8 York 1:6,15,15
32:8
51:22 4:4 6:4,24 10:8
40:7,9
55:23
47:23 17:25 18:4,9,11 35:25 37:10
37:18 0
10:7,10,13 wasn't 4:11,12
