IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CAROL ANNE BOND, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-1227
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, February 22, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:19 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent, in support of the
Petitioner.
STEPHEN R. McALLISTER, ESQ., Lawrence, Kansas; for
amicus curiae in support of the judgment below;
appointed by this Court.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent, in support
of the Petitioner 17
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
STEPHEN R. McALLISTER, ESQ.
For amicus curiae in support of the
judgment below 34
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:19 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in No. 09-1227, Bond v.
United States.
Mr. Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The standing of Petitioner to challenge the
constitutionality of the Federal statute under which her
liberty is being deprived should not be open to serious
question. She clearly satisfies this Court's modern
tripartite test for standing. Indeed, it is hard to
imagine an injury more particularized or concrete than
six years in Federal prison, and the liberty interest
she seeks to vindicate is her own, not some third
party's.
In many ways, I think "standing" is a bit of
a misnomer here. Plaintiff is not a plaintiff who seeks
to invoke the jurisdiction of a Federal court. She is a
defendant who has been hailed into court by a Federal
prosecutor. There is no logical reason she should not
be able to mount a constitutional attack on the statute
that is the basis for the prosecution.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do our -- any of our
opinions talk about the standing of the defendant? I
can't think of one at the moment.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think it was in the
habeas context, but the Spencer decision does talk about
how, when you have a criminal defendant or somebody who
is serving a sentence, their standing to challenge the
conviction is essentially one of the easiest standing
cases you can imagine. And I think in a sense, the same
principles would apply here.
But as I said, I think standing is normally
something you think about as applying to the plaintiff,
who is invoking the jurisdiction of the court. So
what's really at issue here is something -- almost more
of a bar on somebody's ability to make an argument that
would vindicate their liberty, and I see no reason why,
in logic, that should be the case.
Now, the court of appeals essentially didn't
apply ordinary -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it seems to me there
are certainly some arguments you could make as a
defendant for which you have no standing. You're saying
there's no argument you can make as a defendant for
which you have no standing?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I'm not sure you would
call it normal standing principles, Your Honor. There
are certainly arguments you could make that you -- would
have no business having anything to do with your case.
There's arguments you could make that would have nothing
to do with -- would be non-justiciable -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose I raise an
Establishment Clause objection in a matter that -- that
does not involve legislation and which our recent
opinions say therefore does not violate the
Establishment Clause?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I guess I would have to
know why you were a defendant in that case and how it
had anything to do with the price of tea in that
particular case. But -
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, you wouldn't. All
you -- all you would have to know is that the claim is
based upon a statute -- is not based upon a statute and
that our Establishment Clause jurisprudence says if it's
not based upon a statute, it doesn't violate the
Establishment Clause.
MR. CLEMENT: With respect, I don't think
that follows. I mean, I think if -- if the Federal
executive tried to imprison you based on your religion,
you could take issue with that and say that's an
Establishment Clause violation. The problem in your
recent case, the Hein case, is the only -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'd say it's a Free
Exercise Clause violation. I don't think you need the
Establishment Clause for that.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, if they said, well,
we're hereby establishing a religion and you're not part
of our religion and we're therefore imprisoning you, I
would think you could bring that claim.
But in all events, bringing it back to the
case before you, I think there is no reason to think
that ordinary principles of standing wouldn't give my
client every ability to challenge the constitutionality
of the statute under which she's being held.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Clement, in the case
before us, are you making any claims other than that
Congress was acting outside its enumerated powers in
enacting this statute? Are there any peculiarly Tenth
Amendment claims that you're making?
In other words, you admit that Congress is
acting within its enumerated powers and yet the action
violates the Tenth Amendment. Are you making any claims
of that sort, or are all your claims that the statute
here goes beyond Congress's ability to enact it under
Article I?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kagan,
principally our argument here is an enumerated powers
argument. My problem, though, is I'm not sure I
understand some clearly defined set of Tenth Amendment
claims that are uniquely only Tenth Amendment claims and
not enumerated power claims.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, let's just use the
Printz case and say, even though Congress might have the
ability to enact a statute under Article I, there's an
independent Tenth Amendment limitation. Do you have any
claims of that kind in this case?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I don't think so, but
let me just say that my problem is -- take the Printz
case. The Printz case itself went out of its way to say
that it was an enumerated power case. In answering an
argument in the dissent, the majority opinion says, this
is not separate from enumerated powers. If you -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, let's assume,
Mr. Clement, that there is such a thing as a claim in
which you're saying, I can see that this is within
Congress's Article I powers, but there is an independent
Tenth Amendment limitation on this. Do you have any
claims like that?
MR. CLEMENT: I don't think so, Justice
Kagan, but I'd hate to sort of bet my case that on
remand, I'm not going to say something in making an
argument that the government or somebody else thinks is
too much of a commandeering claim and too much -- not
enough of an enumerated power claim.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The government agrees
that it's an enumerated power claim in this case.
MR. CLEMENT: Again, Justice Ginsburg, that
is the basis of our claim. But just to give you a -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You are -- you are at no
risk if the Court were just limited to what both of you
agree is involved -- Article I, Section 8 -- and if
there is a difference for commandeering claims, when the
case arises, we can deal with it.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, you
could certainly do that, and as long as it is crystal
clear that there will be no obstacle to my client making
a constitutional attack on section 229 on remand, I
suppose that's fair enough for my client.
But one of the arguments we've preserved,
for example, is the argument that Missouri vs. Holland
is not a blank check for the government, that it
requires a balancing of the State's interests against
the Federal interests. And if on remand, I wax eloquent
about the State's interest in criminal prosecution and
law enforcement, I would hate for a trap door to open up
at that point and I be told that, wait, wait, that's too
much of the State's interest and not enough of your own
interest.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you want us to say that
when there is a specific injury, specific to your
client, that your client has the right to make any
argument to show that the government has exceeded its
powers under the Constitution, because those powers are
limited to protect the liberties of the individual?
MR. CLEMENT: Exactly right, Justice
Kennedy, and that's the fundamental worry I have here,
is that this Court's cases have not drawn a distinction
between commandeering claims and enumerated powers
claims. The two cases the government points to, New
York and Printz, both go out of their way to say that
they are mirror images or, in fact, enumerated power
claims, because a law that commandeers is not necessary
and proper.
And I do also think that a part of the
problem with the suggestion that somehow Tennessee
Electric should be reimagined as a third party standing
claim is it fundamentally miscomprehends for whom the
structural provisions of the Constitution are there for.
Those provisions are there to protect the liberty of
citizens.
The United -- this Court made that point in
the Free Enterprise Fund just last term. There was a
case where it wasn't the executive complaining about the
infringement on executive power. The Executive Branch
ably defended the statute in this Court. It was a
disgruntled accounting firm that was allowed to
vindicate the separation of powers.
JUSTICE ALITO: Can't there be some Tenth
Amendment claims that go just to State prerogatives and
not to the rights of individuals? Let's say there's a
Federal statute that purports to regulate where a State
locates its capital, or the -- the contents of a State
flag, something like that. Wouldn't that go just to
State prerogatives and not to individual rights?
MR. CLEMENT: I think it would, Justice
Alito. My point is not that there's some special rule
for the Tenth Amendment that plaintiffs will always have
standing. My point is that you should just apply the
normal rules. And what I don't think is sustainable is
the proposition that in commandeering claims an
individual never has standing.
I mean, imagine a Federal statute that
purported to save Federal money by commandeering local
prosecutors to prosecute Federal crimes. Well, I would
hope that a defendant in that kind of case would be able
to raise a commandeering argument as a defense. I don't
think it would be any different if Congress tried to
commandeer the Comptroller General to start bringing
criminal prosecutions. In that case -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Clement, if you are not
making a commandeering claim, then we would be going out
of our way to decide that question. And so, you know,
are you making a commandeering claim?
MR. CLEMENT: I don't -- I don't
self-identify as having made a commandeering claim. But
what I would say is -- we're not asking you to do
anything special. I just think it's the government
that's asking you to go out of your way to
reconceptualize Tennessee Electric as a different kind
of case and preserve it.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the problem is if
you're just making a treaty power claim, then how are
you going to possibly win on remand in the Third Circuit
if we reverse and say that your -- your client has
standing? Do you think it falls within the prerogatives
of the court of appeals to say that Missouri v. Holland
was wrong?
MR. CLEMENT: Well two things, Justice
Alito. First, this is a technical matter. We could go
back to the Third Circuit on our way back to coming here
and we would still have standing to make an argument
that it's foreclosed by precedent.
But I think it's a mistake to think that
Missouri v. Holland is some bright-line rule that
forever answers this question. As I read Missouri v.
Holland and as we clearly argued before the Third
Circuit, it's not a blank check. It's really is more of
a balancing test that looks at the State's interest and
the Federal interest in assessing whether or not the
statute that implements the treaty is necessary and
proper. And I think this case compares pretty favorably
with Missouri against Holland because there the state's
interests was very weak because these birds were just
flying through on their way and there was no real State
interest, or so this Court held, whereas in this case
the State has a real legitimate interest in law
enforcement. I also think we ought to be able to make
--
JUSTICE ALITO: Does that depend on the
nature of the chemical that's involved? Suppose the
chemical was -- was something that people would normally
understand as the kind of chemical that would be used in
a chemical weapon? Let's say it's Sarin does it matter
that this case doesn't involve something like that?
MR. CLEMENT: I think it does, Justice
Alito. I think it would matter in part for a
constitutional avoidance statutory construction
argument, which I think also ought to be open to us. I
sort of think by analogy to the Jones case, where this
Court said that a Federal statute about arson doesn't
apply when a cousin throws a Molotov cocktail at a
residence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's a merits
question rather than a standing question. I assume
we're not getting into those merits questions here.
MR. CLEMENT: No, I was trying to respond to
the question of whether we would be foreclosed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. But you're
confusing me. I thought we were just doing standing.
MR. CLEMENT: No, we're not asking you to do
more than do standing. But I do think it's important to
understand that we don't think we would be limited to
just losing on Missouri v. Holland below and coming back
up. We think we have a very good argument about
Missouri v. Holland as applied.
We also think that there is sort of a
statutory construction argument. And this isn't sarin.
There is something sort of odd about the government's
theory that says that I can buy a chemical weapon at
Amazon.com. That strikes me as odd, and that seems to
me the kind of thing where you could make a statutory
construction to say, well, maybe sarin or maybe actual
chemical weapons, that's one thing, but with respect to
this kind of commonly available chemical, to say without
any jurisdictional element or anything like that, that
it's a Federal crime seems like an argument we at least
ought to have standing to make.
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you say about the
one thing -- the strongest point against you, I think,
is a single sentence in that TVA case. It's only one
sentence, but it's there in the opinion, and I think
what it's saying, Justice Roberts says, well, he already
finished, he just finished saying nobody -- Congress
hasn't violated some rule against creating a system of
regulation in this statute because it isn't regulation.
But then he said, but even if it were, even if it were,
and if your complaint was that Congress has acted
outside its authority, which they might have thought at
that time, in creating a system, TVA, that competes with
local systems, even if that were so, the appellants,
absent the State or their officers, would have no
standing in this suit to raise the question.
Okay, now, that -- they put quite a lot on
to that. That is what it says. So are we supposed to
say, well, that was an ill-considered dicta? Or are we
supposed to say it was just wrong? Are we supposed to
say the law has changed? What in your view are we
supposed to -- or is different. What in your view are
we supposed to say?
MR. CLEMENT: Could I say two things about
that sentence, and then explain what I really think you
should say? First of all, the first thing I would say
about that sentence is that I don't think, read in the
context of the entire opinion, it actually means that
the Court is trying to impose a special disability on
Tenth Amendment claims, because remember, they have
already rejected the plaintiff's basis for having
standing.
JUSTICE BREYER: So it comes out of left
field, and it's an overall "any, even, if." So that
suggests it's just dicta and doesn't count.
MR. CLEMENT: And it's dictum in another
way. But what I think it stands for is the proposition
-- it rejects the argument that if you don't otherwise
have standing under the governing standing rule of the
day that you somehow have a license to bring a Tenth
Amendment claim. And if that's what it stands, well, it
was right then and it continues to be right.
A second point to make about it is it is
dictum, and if you read the sentence, what it says is
the following: It makes a reference to what it's
already established a couple of paragraphs earlier,
which is the states at issue here have passed laws to
accommodate TVA's sale of power, and then it goes on to
say, if this were not so. What does that -- that is a
counterfactual hypothetical. It's the worst kind of
dictum. It says if this were not so. If it were not
the fact that the States had already taken these actions
to affirmatively accommodate then we would have a
different question and then there wouldn't be standing.
So it is dictum I think and can be disregarded as such.
But really if you ask me what you should do
with it, you should do what you did in Twombly, with
some language in an opinion that had continued to cause
trouble in the 50 years since. You should just say
that's no longer good law because it's not. The central
holding of Tennessee Electric was overruled 40 years ago
in the Camp case, and I think this language is of a
piece from that legal interest test, the legal wrong
test of standing, and I think this Court should make
clear that it doesn't apply any longer, and the virtue
of that would be that it would free up the lower courts
to decide these Tenth Amendment standing claims based on
an application of normal standing principles, because
that's not happening in the lower court right now. In
the lower court right now what happens is somebody comes
in with a Tenth Amendment claim of whatever stripe,
maybe it's a commandeering claim, maybe it's not, and
what they're confronted with, especially if it's a
commandeering claim, is a quick citation of Tennessee
Electric, an equally quick citation of Shearson which
says only this Court can overturn its decisions, and
that's it. No standing analysis, nothing subtle about
the particular claim. And that's not a sustainable
situation.
If I could reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Clement.
Mr. Dreeben.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN,
FOR RESPONDENT, IN SUPPORT OF PETITIONER
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
As Petitioner confirmed this morning, the
central claim that he is making about the
unconstitutionality of section 229 is that it exceeds
Congress's enumerated powers. He may wish to raise as
part of that claim a argument that it invades the
province that belongs to the States concerning criminal
law. He can do that. He has the authority to make such
a challenge. The Third Circuit erred in holding to the
contrary.
Now, the Third Circuit in reaching the
contrary conclusion relied on this Court's decision in
Tennessee Electric v. TVA, and we think that the court
of appeals misread that case in concluding that it
barred standing, not because it lacks a holding that
does bar standing of certain types of claims that allege
an invasion of State sovereignty, but because the kind
of claim that Petitioner is making is not a Tenth
Amendment reserved rights claim, but instead an
enumerated powers claim.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's kind of hard
under our precedents to draw that precise line between
enumerated powers and the Tenth Amendment, and it seems
a bit much to put defendant to the trouble of trying to
do that under the theory from TVA that they have no
standing to make a particular type of Tenth Amendment
claim.
MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, I don't
think that the defendant needs to be put in any trouble
in this case because the kind of claim that counsel is
making on her behalf does assert her right not to be
subject to criminal punishment under a law that he says,
counsel says, Congress lacks the authority to enact.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what if they argue -
what if she argues on remand, if there is a remand,
that, assuming for the sake of argument Congress can
enact any law that is necessary and proper to implement
a treaty? The Tenth Amendment prohibits certain laws
that intrude too heavily on State law enforcement
prerogatives, State police power. If she makes that
argument, which category does that fall into?
MR. DREEBEN: It falls into the enumerated
powers category, Justice Alito, just as last term in
United States v. Comstock one of the elements that this
Court looked at when it decided whether the law
authorizing civil commitment in that case was within
Congress's enumerated authority plus the Necessary and
Proper Clause, the Court looked at the extent to which
the law accommodated State interests or, alternatively,
invaded them in an unlawful manner, which is what Mr.
Comstock had alleged in that case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're -- you want us
to say that, even if the defendant in some case might
show that a constitutional violation is causing that
defendant specific injury, the defendant may not be able
to raise the claim of its, what you call sovereignty
claim? In Thornton v. Arkansas, the term limits case,
we allowed a citizen of a State to bring a challenge to
a statute that the State had enacted inconsistent with
its Federal powers. Now, that's the flip side. That
was a State statute, not a Federal statute, but it seems
to me that is inconsistent with the position you're
taking. And it seems to me also consistent -
inconsistent with the rule that separation of powers
claims can be presented by defendants, in Chadha v.
INS, Clinton v. New York, a line-item veto case.
The whole point of separation of powers, the
whole point of federalism, is that it inheres to the
individual and his or her right to liberty; and if that
is infringed by a criminal conviction or in any other
way that causes specific injury, why can't it be raised?
I just don't understand your point.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Kennedy, I -- I
don't take issue with almost everything that you said.
The structural protections of the Constitution can be
enforced by individuals under the cases that you have
cited.
What we are dealing with here is two things.
First of all, a statement that this Court made in TVA
that was part of its holding, addressed to what the
Court perceived as an attack based on a specific aspect
of State sovereignty that belonged to the States. Now,
today, we might not understand the claim that was made
in that case as implicating a specific sovereign right
that's protected under the Tenth Amendment. Today we
might look at it and say this is nothing other than a
conventional preemption claim.
JUSTICE ALITO: I don't know whether that's
a correct characterization of the argument that was made
in -- in the Tennessee Electric case. I -- I'm looking
at the brief in the case, and the discussion of the
Tenth Amendment generally follows a caption that says
the power to dispose of Federal property does not
include any power to regulate local activities.
I don't understand why that isn't the same
kind of delegated powers argument that you say the
Petitioner here is raising.
MR. DREEBEN: That may be, Justice Alito. I
think that it's a little bit difficult to parse
precisely what the Petitioner in Tennessee Electric was
arguing, but this Court understood the claim as one that
-- that bore on Federal regulation of purely local
matters in a matter that regulated the internal affairs
of the State; and I agree with you that today we might
not view that as a Tenth Amendment-specific claim, but
this Court did in 1939.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why didn't it just consider
it as outside the Commerce Clause? I mean, they had a
whole lot of law, but what is the distinction between
saying, as they said then, "Court, the TVA regulates
electricity rates in Memphis and that's beyond the power
of Congress to enact"?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer -
JUSTICE BREYER: In this case, which -
because of the Tenth Amendment and a lot of other
things.
MR. DREEBEN: I understand that, Justice
Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: And this case seems the
same, saying it's beyond the power of Congress to enact
because of the treaty.
MR. DREEBEN: Well I think if you intrude
today's analytical model -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. DREEBEN: -- under today's
jurisprudence, that is how the case would be viewed.
But it was not how it was viewed at the time of TVA.
JUSTICE BREYER: How do we know that? I'm
not doubting you; I just want to know.
MR. DREEBEN: The language from the
sentence, Justice Breyer, that you in fact read -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. DREEBEN: -- discussing whether the
presence or absence of a State objection mattered, the
Court said: As we've seen there's no objection from the
State, and if this were not so the appellants, absent
the States or their officers, have no standing to raise
any objection under the amendment.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume in this
hypothetical -- just that case, TVA. State -- the
Federal Government sets the price, and someone's accused
of violating that price. Can that defendant come in and
say, just as in TVA, that's unconstitutional because
prices have to be set by the State? Can the defendant
say that, or is that an anti- commandeering claim that
you say they're barred from raising?
MR. DREEBEN: That is not an anti
commandeering claim. That is the kind of claim that
today we would conceptualize as an enumerated powers
claim.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So my question goes back
to one that's been asked before, which is, give me a
hypothetical of a defendant who has been convicted where
it would be a pure anti- commandeering claim that you
say they have no standing for.
MR. DREEBEN: This will take me back to -
to Justice Kennedy's question, because I wanted to
answer the part that I thought distinguished a
commandeering case from what Justice Kennedy was talking
about. And the point is best made in the context of an
example. Under the Sex Offender Registration Act,
defendants have challenged the law on numerous grounds,
including, number one, Congress lacks its constitutional
authority under the Commerce Clause and the Necessary
and Proper Clause to criminalize the individual
registration requirement imposed on them. All courts
that have addressed that have said that's a claim that's
within the cognizance of a defendant to bring.
Defendants have also said the SORNA statute
violates Federal law because it requires States to
accept sex offender registrations. It commandeers the
States into requiring them to set up a sex offender
database.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Dreeben, why
shouldn't the defendant be able to raise that argument?
If the defendant prevails on that argument, presumably
the statute is invalidated and the conviction is
overthrown. So why doesn't the defendant have the
appropriate interest to raise that argument?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Kagan, this is
the absolutely crucial point that distinguishes
commandeering from most of the structural constitutional
provisions that we've been discussing this morning. A
State can choose to establish a sex offender database
and to receive registrations from people who are
required to register under Federal law; and invalidating
a Federal law that commanded them to do that does not
deprive the State of its ability to say, we want to
have, in our autonomous sovereign interest, a sex
offender database that will receive these applications,
and as a result -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, all you're saying is
that there's -- in that hypothetical is that there's no
violation?
MR. DREEBEN: That's correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Everybody goes home.
MR. DREEBEN: There -- the reason why in
that hypothetical the defendant should not raise the
issue is because there will be no violation -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But that's a merits
question. That's not a standing question. Why don't we
just say the defendant has standing to raise it, and
then he'll lose?
MR. DREEBEN: You could say that, Justice
Kagan, but I think that part of the enduring force of
TVA is that it adopted a third-party standing rule that
is still part of this Court's jurisprudence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why couldn't you have
said the same thing in TVA, that, while companies are -
are -- not -- yes, the Federal -- the Federal statute
requires the companies to charge this price, but they
might have decided to charge it on their own anyway, and
therefore you have no standing?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, the Court did say that
there was no standing on the grounds that when the
specific argument was made, this takes away the right of
the State to regulate because the Federal Government is
regulating.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dreeben, is your
concern that there would be a clash in these cases?
You've given the example of the State wants to have this
registration system. Suppose the -- the defendant can
raise that and would prevail? Well, the State's not
party to that suit, its interests have not been
represented. Is that -- is that your concern?
MR. DREEBEN: That is a major factor in
third-party standing generally, Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose a State wanted to
be commandeered in Printz? Suppose they said, we really
like having sheriffs take the Federal gun registration
law?
MR. DREEBEN: They can do that. Justice
Kennedy, there's nothing -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I have -- I have -- I
have serious trouble with that. A State can surrender
its -- its -- a State can confer more authority on the
Federal Government than the Constitution does?
MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Kennedy. But a
State in its sovereign decisionmaking process can elect
to participate in a Federal program. At least, that was
what Justice O'Connor said in her concurrence in Printz.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why isn't standard standing
doctrine able to give you the protection that you're
looking after? If indeed you can't tell whether the
State did it because it was compelled to or because it
wanted to, there was no causation and you don't have
standing.
MR. DREEBEN: That is a perfectly acceptable
route of analysis.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would rather use that
route of analysis than inventing the new one that you're
-- that you're urging upon us.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I don't think they're
different, Justice Scalia. They both concern who holds
the right and whether there's any redressability -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then let's use the
one we already have and -- and not -- not have to get
into developing one that I've never heard of before.
MR. DREEBEN: I think, Justice Scalia, that
all the Government is doing in this case is applying
conventional standing principles of redressability and
third-party standing in a specific context, which as Mr.
Clement has made clear, is not before the Court today.
This is not a commandeering case. That happens to be
the only specific aspect of a State sovereignty claim
that is distinct from an enumerated powers claim that
the Court has recognized in recent decades. Whether
some other sort of claim of State sovereignty might some
day be recognized and require its own analysis is well
beyond the scope of this case. Our point is a much more
basic one. We agree with Petitioner's counsel that he
can raise the claim that he has tried to raise. We
think that the Third Circuit misunderstood what the TVA
decision purported to say when it rejected standing for
a type of State sovereignty claim. And we think that
the currently recognized State sovereignty claim of
commandeering fits into the description of the
analytical category that was addressed in TVA.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does that analysis
differ in any way because this is a treaty power claim
versus a Commerce Clause claim? Your briefs go back and
forth on which one it is. Your reply brief now
emphasizes Commerce Clause power, but your main brief
was saying this is a treaty provision challenge. Do
they differ?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Sotomayor, I
believe that the statute is valid under either the
Treaty Clause plus the Necessary and Proper Clause
analysis under Missouri v. Holland. It also can be
sustained in our view under the Commerce Clause, which
follows directly from what this Court said in Raich when
the Court said that the intrastate regulation of a
commodity that's used in commerce is a customary,
typical method that Congress utilizes. It gave as
examples of that the nuclear, biological, and plastic
explosives statutes which were enacted to implement
treaty obligations of the United States.
JUSTICE ALITO: Given the breadth of this
statute, that would be a very far-reaching decision,
wouldn't it? Suppose that the Petitioner in this case
decided to retaliate against her former friend by
pouring a bottle of vinegar in the friend's goldfish
bowl. As I read this statute, that would be a violation
of this statute, potentially punishable by life
imprisonment, wouldn't it?
MR. DREEBEN: I'm not sure, Justice Alito.
I will assume with you that it is. The statute -
JUSTICE ALITO: If she possesses a chemical
weapon.
MR. DREEBEN: I'm not sure that vinegar is a
chemical weapon.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, a chemical weapon is a
weapon that includes toxic chemicals. And a toxic
chemical is a chemical that can cause death to animals.
And pouring vinegar in a goldfish bowl, I believe, will
cause death to the goldfish, so that's -- that's a
chemical weapon.
MR. DREEBEN: I'm willing to make the
assumption with you and accept that it is a
broad-reaching statute, but it was adopted as a
broad-reaching statute because this is an area, like the
medical marijuana instance in Raich, where effective
control of the interstate market requires control of an
intrastate market. The statute exempts peaceful uses
for agricultural and pharmaceutical purposes of these
chemicals, it has other exemptions as well. It was
intended to be a comprehensive ban that implemented the
United States treaty obligations to eliminate the use of
chemical weapons both in military instances and in
terrorism, and -
JUSTICE ALITO: The difference is that Raich
involved one commodity, right? Marijuana. This
involves potentially thousands and thousands of
chemicals. And you would have -- you would make the
same argument with respect to every one of those
chemicals if you take together all of the people who are
-- who would use vinegar to kill goldfish or all the
people who might use antifreeze to kill dogs, you put
all of that together, that has a substantial effect on
the interstate, the interstate market for antifreeze or
for vinegar? That would be the argument?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think it's pretty well
recognized, Justice Alito, that when Congress seeks to
regulate an interstate market as to which there cannot
be any question under the Commerce Clause Congress could
do, it can control the interstate market as necessary in
order to assure that its prohibition is effective.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're trying to drive
vinegar out of the interstate market? Do the people
know you're trying to do this? Can you really argue
that this statute is designed to drive vinegar out of
the interstate market?
MR. DREEBEN: No, of course not.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dreeben, are we
getting to the merits of the case?
MR. DREEBEN: A lot further than I had
intended, Justice Ginsburg. The merits of the case,
though, involve both a Commerce Clause argument, a
treaty-based argument. As far as the standing
principles go, I don't think that there is any
difference between them. Missouri v. Holland was a case
in which this Court adjudicated whether a law exceeded
Congress's enumerated authority. It did that at the
behest of a State, but there is no reason why under
cases like Lopez and Sabri and Perez that an enumerated
powers argument is in any way off limits to a criminal
defendant. It's not.
If this case does go back down to the Third
Circuit, a petitioner can make the argument that this
law exceeds the enumerated powers. We can rely on the
Treaty Clause. It doesn't affect standing in any way.
I think that the amicus in support of the judgment makes
the assumption that because Missouri v. Holland is good
law, there's no possible claim that Petitioner can make
that the law would exceed Congress's enumerated
authority. Therefore, the amicus says this must be some
sort of a special State sovereignty claim of a genre
that looks like commandeering, perhaps not articulated
quite light that.
We don't understand Petitioner to be making
that argument. I think Petitioner confirmed today
that's not what she's trying to do, and there is no
Tenth Amendment claim based on a specific aspect of
State sovereignty that Petitioner has ever made. In
fact, if you look at Petitioner's brief in support of
the rehearing petition, Petitioner said the Tenth
Amendment argument raised by Bond was not critical to
Bond's other constitutional challenges. It is ancillary
to Bond's main argument that Congress acted outside of
its enumerated powers. I think that's a correct
understanding of what Petitioner has sought to argue in
the court below. In our view, she is entitled to make
that argument. That argument should also fail on the
merits, but that is not an issue that this Court granted
certiorari to decide.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In the category that you
would like to have saved, you said commandeering, but
you said there conceivably could be others. Is there
anything concrete, anything other than commandeering,
that might fall under this State sovereignty side of the
line?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, as Justice Alito pointed
out, the Court has indicated that moving a State
capital, a direction to move the State capital, might be
an intrusion on sovereignty.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Unlikely to come up as a
defense in a criminal case.
MR. DREEBEN: Highly unlikely.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dreeben.
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. McAllister.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN R. McALLISTER,
AS AMICUS CURIAE, IN SUPPORT OF
JUDGEMENT BELOW
MR. McALLISTER: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
The relevant standing doctrine in this case
is the prudential rule against third-party standing. No
one disputes here that the Petitioner has Article III
standing. One of the difficulties in the case is that
the only case that mentions specifically standing in
this context is the Tennessee Valley Authority case and
it clearly says if it is in fact a Tenth Amendment
claim, unless you have a State official or the State,
there is no standing.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Pretty harsh, if
we're talking about prudential standing, to deny that to
a criminal defendant, isn't it?
MR. McALLISTER: It's potentially harsh,
Your Honor, but there are lower court cases that have
certainly done it. There is some circuit cases where a
criminal defendant has tried to make a Tenth Amendment
claim and the court has said no. She still has several
other claims here. We all agree, I think, to the extent
you could really characterize her claim as an Article I
enumerated powers claim, this Court has assumed many
times that defendants have the standing. This Court
generally has not discussed it, but it has assumed it,
and so there are cases that say no standing for a
criminal defendant. She did make a Fifth Amendment due
process vagueness challenge. If she had other Bill of
Rights type claims. Even the treaty power cases like
Reid v. Covert recognize you could raise that kind of
claim, but the Court's cases do distinguish between
Tenth Amendment and other claims. And a lot of the
argument here is about what is on the Tenth Amendment
side of the line, what is a lack of power, for a better
word, whether it's -- there's an Article I, power
doesn't reach it. And in particular I would point to
the Heller case, which Petitioner mentions in her reply
brief, but frankly is off by one page in the citation
that the Court should focus on, pages 579 to '80. The
Court says "there are three times in the Constitution
where the word "the people" is not talking about
individual rights. And the three examples the Court
gives are the Preamble, Article 1, Section 2, and the
Tenth Amendment. And the Court says these provisions
are about reservations of power, not rights. And also
the Printz and the New York v. United States cases say
there is something substantive about the Tenth Amendment
that is a limit separate and apart from Article ,
Section 8.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. What do you
see specifically? Because there's a lot of discussion
about labels and what the labels mean in this case. But
tell me specifically what -- not the word she uses, but
the specific ways in which prudential considerations bar
her standing; meaning: What about the nature of her
claim prudentially should counsel us against giving her
standing?
MR. McALLISTER: Well, I would say at least
a couple things, Your Honor. One is, the usual rule of
prudential third-party standing considers the alignment
or lack of alignment between the interests of the third
party making the claim and the party who is not present
whose claim it really is. And in this case, there's
really no argument that her interests align with those
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Commonwealth
in fact prosecuted her and it did not stop her. It was
unsuccessful as a deterrent. And later, when local
police wouldn't be involved, the Federal Government got
involved. And -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think
Pennsylvania would be upset that the Federal Government
got her when they couldn't?
MR. McALLISTER: No, that's my point. And
so my point is that her interests are directly contrary
to Pennsylvania's interests. So she's not stepping in
saying: I share the interests of the State; therefore,
let me articulate and argue the interests of the State.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, in a -- in another
case, conceivably, the State Attorney General can
exercise his or her prosecutorial discretion not to -
not to prosecute this woman, or at least not to
prosecute her under the antiterrorism law that gives her
8 years. Isn't that something for the State to be
concerned about? We want to have the discretion of
whether to prosecute or not for standard crimes that
have no relation to interstate commerce or any other
Federal power.
MR. McALLISTER: Well, it's standard that
both sovereigns have the ability often to prosecute if
the definitions of crimes overlap, and there's nothing
that prevents Pennsylvania from prosecuting her again
here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: She wants to make the
argument that the definitions don't overlap. She wants
to make the argument that this is a strictly State,
local crime, and that any -- any attempt by the Federal
Government to convert it into a treaty-based terrorism
crime is -- is erroneous.
MR. McALLISTER: Well, in -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what she's trying to
do. Why doesn't she have standing to make that
argument?
MR. McALLISTER: Because the lower courts,
at least, in their defense, understood this to be a
Tenth Amendment claim, and there are reasons for that.
Now, in this Court neither the Petitioner nor the
government really wants to talk about that or argue
about that. Instead, they talk about the petition for
rehearing en banc after the Third Circuit has decided
the case.
But if you look in the Joint Appendix, pages
26 to 32 is the supplemental brief that her lawyer filed
when the Third Circuit said, post-argument: Now, wait a
minute, maybe this is a Tenth Amendment case and we have
a standing issue. The government, at that point, said:
Hey, good idea; we don't think she does have standing.
And she did not come back and answer: I'm
not making a Tenth Amendment claim. Her answer is: I'm
making a Tenth Amendment claim, but I have standing to
make it.
JUSTICE BREYER: That single sentence
doesn't seem -- I'm trying to figure it out. It doesn't
seem to refer to just all Tenth Amendment claims.
There's a footnote and it talks about no standing in
this suit.
Then if you look back at the lower court
case, it seemed to be referring to a particular argument
where the challengers had said the Property Clause
doesn't give authority to the government to pass this.
The reply was, that was true in Alabama, and the Court
said it was okay. Then the challengers say: Oh, but
Alabama agreed. And then Georgia doesn't agree. And it
was in that context that Georgia says it doesn't make
any difference.
But if Georgia was going to disagree or
agree, if that's what it turned on, we better have
Georgia say whether they agree or disagree, and not have
people who aren't Georgia. That's what he seems to be
saying to me at the moment.
If I'm right, what's comparable to that in
this case? Is there some claim that she's making that
it would be constitutional if they agreed in the State
and it wouldn't be if not? I don't think so. I think
she means it's constitutional irrespective.
MR. McALLISTER: As a -- I mean, she's
arguing a lack of power. So -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Yes. So if that's
so, then how can we take this sentence as barred?
MR. McALLISTER: Well, I think, again, the
sentence -- I mean, if we're talking about the sentence
in TVA barring standing in Tenth Amendment claims -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. It just says "in this
case."
MR. McALLISTER: It says "in this case," but
there's no suggestion that it will -- frankly, it's hard
for us to even tell exactly what this case was in terms
of the facts. It's a rather confusing case.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, he cites. He gives a
footnote and you read the page and you get an idea.
MR. McALLISTER: For that particular
instance -- and that's certainly an example the Court
had in mind. The language of TVA, though, is in no way
limited to that particular instance. It just says here,
there's -- if this is a Tenth Amendment claim, there is
no standing. And that's why, I think, for 70 years the
lower courts have wrestled with, what is a Tenth
Amendment claim? Because TVA is there, this Court has
announced it, and if it is a Tenth Amendment claim,
there is no standing.
Sort of back to Justice Sotomayor's
question, though, in terms of the third-party prudential
aspect of it, again, the issue is: Is this person a
good person to assert someone else's interests? Yes,
she has Article III standing, but not necessarily to
make every constitutional claim one might think of. In
the Tenth Amendment context, those claims belong to the
States. They don't create individual rights. And in
fact, there's good reason to think the States do get
involved when they perceive actual Tenth Amendment
violations.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you just
articulate for me -- we're speaking in generalities -
what in the nature of her claim, taking the labels away,
do you think is a pure Tenth Amendment challenge?
MR. McALLISTER: Well, that's -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: As I read her complaint,
and it's always that it's a Tenth Amendment claim
because Congress and the president have exceeded their
powers in some -
MR. McALLISTER: As I understand her
complaint, basically her argument is that unless this
statute is authorized by something in Article I,
section 8, the first 17 clauses, there's no power to
enact it. And that's why this case is, frankly, not
clearly governed by Lopez or Raich or Morrison. Those
were straight commerce power cases under section 3.
This is a treaty power case under Article II, and she
only wants to read the first half of the Necessary and
Proper Clause, which refers to all the foregoing powers.
But it also says necessary and proper for all other
powers.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's -- you haven't
answered my -- my question. Why isn't that a merits
decision as to whether or not the President and Congress
have the power to enact this legislation?
MR. McALLISTER: Well, Your Honor, in
essence, at the end of the day, it will be a merits
question, but from a standing argument, trying to define
what is a Tenth Amendment claim -- and the point I was
trying to make, perhaps not successfully, is that she's
not saying -- well, she is sort of saying the Article I,
section 8 enumerated powers are the limits. But
frankly, they can't be the limits.
In light of the plain language of the
Necessary and Proper Clause and Missouri v. Holland and
90 years of this Court's precedent under the treaty
power, those powers are not limits. So she's asserting
they're limits and saying, I'm really making an Article
I claim, but that simply lets her always have standing,
because, even in the commandeering cases, the plaintiff
can say, this is about Article I, this is not about the
Tenth Amendment. And so at some point the Court has to
drill down and characterize what the nature of the claim
actually is.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why do we have
to do that? It -- it seems to me we've had a lot of
discussion this morning about whether this is an
enumerated powers claim or a Tenth Amendment claim.
They really do kind of blend together, and it seems to
me awfully difficult to put on a criminal defendant the
responsibility to decide whether this is going to be an
enumerated powers claim or this is going to be a Tenth
Amendment claim. The basic principles do kind of merge
together, and why does it make -- again, why does it
make that much of a difference and why do you put the
burden on the defendant to parse the claim one way or
another, since I assume they can make pretty much all
the same arguments under an enumerated powers -- under
the enumerated powers clause -
MR. McALLISTER: Well -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In an enumerated
powers argument.
MR. McALLISTER: In an enumerated powers
case, yes. The problem -- I think the difficulty with
this case is it's unusual and that there -- until its
reply brief in this Court, the government had not relied
on the commerce power. In fact, the government had said
throughout: This is a treaty power case, treaty power
case. Even at the oral argument in the Third Circuit,
the judge said, couldn't we decide this on the basis of
the treaty power? Wouldn't -- or the commerce power -
would not that be the easy route? And the government
lawyer said, no, that would be the hard route; you need
to decide it on the basis of the treaty power.
So I agree in a Lopez kind of case that,
really, that's where the Court has often said it's just
mirror image. If the commerce power doesn't go that
far, then by definition it's reserved under the Tenth
Amendment. But here, it's a treaty power case. It's
not an Article I, section 8 -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. McAllister, I guess I
don't understand why that makes a difference. The
Necessary and Proper Clause says "foregoing powers" and
it says "other powers." This happens to be a case where
Congress is acting under the other powers part of the
Necessary and Proper Clause, but the question in either
event is the extent of the Necessary and Proper Clause
and what it allows Congress to do.
So in -- in that sense, whether it's a
treaty power case or not a treaty power case just
doesn't matter. It's all a question of what Congress's
scope of authority is under the Necessary and Proper
Clause.
MR. McALLISTER: Well, I would disagree
somewhat, Your Honor, respectfully, that -- her argument
about the Necessary and Proper Clause I don't think is
that this -- this -- she's not arguing the statute is an
irrational or unreasonable way to implement the treaty
obligations of the United States. What she's arguing is
that the treaty power itself does not give Congress the
power to enact section 229 unless, in essence, you don't
need the treaty, because you already have the power, the
government does, under the first 17 clauses of Article
I, Section 8.
So, yes, the Necessary and Proper Clause is
the connection here to Article I, Section 8, but it's a
minimal connection, and -- and she's not arguing sort of
the -- - the -- I don't think, the Comstock kind of
argument that this isn't tied to, rationally, to some
sort of articulated power.
The government clearly has power to enter
treaties under Article II, section 2, and so that to me
is the distinguishing feature from all those other
Article I, section 8, cases. This -- I agree; I don't
think I could stand up here and -- and try to argue to
you this is a true Tenth Amendment case if, in fact,
this had been litigated as a commerce power case all
along.
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm not sure I -- I'm not
sure I understood what you just said. Are you saying
that -- that she is arguing that Congress does not have
the power to enact legislation that's necessary and
proper for the implementation of treaties, but only for
the making of treaties; that she's making that argument
that's been made by some academic writers?
MR. McALLISTER: No, I'm not sure that's
what I meant to say, Justice Alito. What -- what I was
trying to say is her argument is not -- well, I think
her argument is in essence a challenge to the treaty
power. It's one step removed, but it is a challenge to
the treaty power, because she says the statute has to be
based on something in Article I, section 8, first 17
clauses; and if it's based on something there, then the
treaty power adds nothing to Congress's ability to enact
legislation; and that's inconsistent with the plain
language of the Necessary and Proper Clause, the fact
that the treaty power is in Article II, not in Article
I, section 8.
And so under her view of the world -- as I
understand it; I'm sure Mr. Clement will correct me if
I'm wrong about my understanding -- is that really you
don't need a treaty, the treaty doesn't add anything. I
mean, it may be the reason that Congress decides at this
point in time to enact section 229. But I believe, as I
understood her argument, if it has the commerce power to
do it, United States never entered -- needed to enter a
treaty in order for Congress to enact section 229. So
in other words, as I understand her argument, the treaty
power adds nothing to the domestic legislative authority
of Congress.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. McAllister, have you
found any case other than this one where a criminal
defendant was held to have lacked standing to challenge
a statute under which the defendant was prosecuted?
MR. McALLISTER: Not in this Court, Justice
Ginsburg, but there are examples in the circuits, a few.
There are examples from the Eighth Circuit, from the
Tenth Circuit involving criminal prosecutions where the
Court characterized the claim as a Tenth Amendment claim
and said, in light of TVA, the criminal defendant does
not have standing to make that claim. So there are
examples in the lower courts. I'm not aware of an
example in this Court.
And I would say this, too, about the -
there's some argument about the separation of powers
cases in which the Court has typically allowed
individuals to make that claim. Again, because we're
talking about prudential rules and third-party standing,
or at least I'm talking about that, one prudential
consideration is in those cases, whether it's Chadha,
whether it's Clinton v. New York, the recent Free
Enterprise case, the Federal Government is always very
much present. It may be representing the defendant in
those cases, it may simply intervene or come in as an
amicus, it gets notice if the Federal statute is
challenged as being unconstitutional.
The difference in the Tenth Amendment
setting is there's no mechanism, practically, to notify
the States or solicit the States for their interests.
Someone's raising this claim that says the government is
intruding on your sovereign interests; there's no
mechanism to allow the States. Now, if -- if States are
aware of it and come and ask to file an amicus, perhaps
they would be allowed to, but there's no mechanism that
ensures -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't that an issue for
a civil lawsuit as opposed to a criminal one? Because
all that would happen in a criminal suit is that the
defendant's conviction would be undone, but that doesn't
mean that the State is bound in some way. The State
wasn't a party to the criminal action.
MR. McALLISTER: Well, the State isn't a
party, but what gets said in those cases about the scope
of the State's prerogatives vis--vis the Federal
Government could well be brought to bear in other cases
in other settings, commandeering cases.
Again, the concern in the third-party
standing case is that you're not actually a party, but
someone else is making arguments in a sense on your
behalf. They lose, because perhaps they don't know all
of the arguments they should be making or they don't
articulate them the way the State does -- there's still
stare decisis effect of those decisions on the States.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, there's two things
that could happen. One is that if the State loses, then
-- and it doesn't want to lose -- it passes its own law.
Or if it wins, if the case is as stated below, it just
lets the status quo go. I still don't understand what
the long-term injury to the State is or could be.
MR. McALLISTER: Well, I guess again, and
maybe I'm misapprehending, but the long-term interest is
a -- is a decision, say in the criminal case, that says,
no, this doesn't intrude on the State's sovereignty, is
there as a matter of stare decisis. So if in a later
case the State wants to in fact assert that this
particular statute does intrude on our sovereignty, it's
not that they can't necessarily raise the claim, but
they will confront contrary precedent that the State
never had a chance to -- to voice its opinion or its
views at the time the issue was being adjudicated.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your underlying premise is
that the individual has no interest in whether or not
the State has surrendered its powers to the Federal
Government, and I just don't think the Constitution was
framed on that theory.
MR. McALLISTER: Well, Justice Kennedy, I
don't know that I would say they have no interest, but I
am -- I guess the premise I'm asserting is they do not
necessarily get to assert the Tenth Amendment claim of
the States. New York v. United States, for example, was
a case where the State initially said we're not
concerned about this regulation, and then changed its
mind; and the Court in New York said States don't waive
those Tenth Amendment rights; States can then -- can
change its mind and bring a suit, and there's no
indication -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it does -- it does
assume, as Justice Kennedy said, that the reason that is
there in the Constitution is only for the benefits of
the States, and not for the benefit of the people in the
States. So if a State chooses to give it away, the -
the individual has -- has no standing. You say it's
third party, we're raising the States' rights. I think
what the other sides is arguing; this is not a right of
the States, it's a right of the individual to have the
State take charge of certain matters and the Federal
Government take charge of other matters. I don't see
why that's any different from an Article I, section 8
claim.
MR. McALLISTER: Well, and that's a
conclusion the Court can reach. But what -- what the
Petitioner's position essentially holds is that there's
never a question of third-party standing for any claim
under the Constitution, basically, not the kind I'm
talking about; and that no claims are limited to certain
categories of litigants.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There -- there's a question
of causality, so some of them will -- will not be valid
because you can't show that the -- that the State was
coerced into doing something and therefore you can't
show that the violation of the Constitution caused your
injury.
MR. McALLISTER: And that's -- but you're
talking now really the causality; that's an Article III
inquiry. And again, what I'm trying to talk about is
separate, the next step, the prudential third-party
standing. And I think Petitioner's view is third-party
standing is just out the window, whether it's separation
of powers, Tenth Amendment, anything.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
McAllister.
MR. McALLISTER: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Clement, you
have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Just a few points in rebuttal. First of
all, one reason not to carve out a special rule for
commandeering claims is that not all commandeering
claims are created equal. Mr. Dreeben raises the
commandeering claim that has been litigated in the
context of SORNA, the sex registration act. I don't
know the details of that enough to know whether that's a
valid commandeering claim or not, or whether there's a
redressability problem in that particular case. But I
can certainly imagine a commandeering case, a Federal
statute that purports to commandeer local prosecutors to
prosecute Federal crimes, where there would be no
standing obstacle; and the problem is right now the
lower courts aren't resolving the standing issue in the
SORNA challenges based on a careful analysis of Article
III standing, redressability or prudential standing, for
that matter. They're resolving those challenges with a
simple citation to Tennessee Electric and let's move on,
and that's really what should stop.
A second reason that you should not try to
carve out commandeering cases as being somehow the
residuum of the Tennessee Electric dictum is because
Tennessee Electric says nothing about commandeering
cases. It just talks broadly about Tenth Amendment
cases. You know, we can disagree or agree; it's kind of
hard to figure out what the nature of the claim was in
Tennessee Electric.
I don't think it was really much different
from the claim that we're raising here, which is in
Tennessee Electric they said, well, if the Federal
Government gets to regulate power, what's left of
State's traditional prerogative to regulate the price
for power.
Here is if the Federal Government can go in
and prosecute you for putting vinegar in your neighbor's
goldfish bowl, what's left of local law enforcement. I
think they're very similar arguments. But whatever else
is true, I just don't think Tennessee Electric limited
itself to commandeering claims in any way that would
allow you to say that Mr. Dreeben refers to the enduring
force of Tennessee Electric. With all due respect, I
don't think Tennessee Electric has any enduring force.
The central holding of this decision was
overruled. The further you go in the decision the less
satisfying it is. If you go all the way to reading the
Georgia Power case cited in footnote 27 as Justice
Breyer has done, and you look at the role of consent of
the States, it turns out in the district court opinion,
that's in the merits section of the opinion.
The Court's already held contrary, actually,
to the holding of Tennessee Electric that the utility
companies there had standing. So what you see is, you
know what happens if you apply the legal interest test,
you hopelessly conflate the merits and the standing
question. That's kind of happened today in oral
argument. That's a bad approach. The Court was right
to get rid of it in camp, and it should perfect the camp
decision by saying this sentence no longer survives.
Two other minor points. One is on the
Commerce Clause, I think Justice Alito shows why the
Government was right never to make that argument below,
but I do think it's important that if this Court says
anything about the Commerce Clause issue, it doesn't
somehow reinject it in the case in a way that would not
allow us to argue that it has been clearly waived in the
Third Circuit. The Government gets to confess air, it
doesn't get to confess, oh, actually, we have a better
argument to defend the statute that we've never raised
before. Plain error should be a two-way street, and
they should not be allowed to sneak the Commerce Clause
back into the case at this late stage.
Finally, there is no difference between the
separation of powers case and the Federalism case. The
best example of that is this Court's Free Enterprise
Fund case. When it wants a case to cite for the
proposition that the Executive Branch cannot waive or
acquiesce in a separation of powers violation, because
the separation of powers is there to protect the
individual, what does it cite? New York against United
States. Please reverse the decision below.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Clement.
Mr. McAllister, this Court appointed you to
brief and argue the case in support of the judgment
below, you have ably discharged that responsibility for
which we are grateful.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:19 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
7:9 25:5 ago 16:17 34:16,25 35:8 application 16:24 5:3,5 8:19
46:20 agree 8:11 21:21 35:13,14,25 applications 25:7 43:19 49:10,12
19:22 39:13,17,18 38:24,25 39:4 apply 4:11,20 arises 8:13
27:10 44:11 45:25 40:7,20,23,24 10:18 13:6 Arkansas 19:24
56:2 agrees 8:5 44:15 46:2 28:2 7:21 8:11 34:12
air 55:4 53:12 approach 54:19 42:24 43:2
alignment 36:16 32:14,18 34:6 argue 19:1 31:17 51:25 53:3
11:16,24 12:19 analysis 17:8 argued 12:6 articulated 32:20
21:5,15 29:15 28:21 29:6 53:3 arguing 21:18 asked 23:19
allow 48:18 54:3 answer 23:25 11:1 12:1 13:3 asserting 42:23
28:20 19:16 antiterrorism 33:4,6,10,10 assuming 19:3
amendment 6:19 apart 36:4 38:1,8 39:8 assure 31:14
15:11,22 16:23 APPEARANC... 45:20 46:10,14 attempt 38:2
18:25 18:23 49:11 briefs 28:23 40:12,13 41:25 41:15 46:15,16
24:6 27:3 52:12 bright-line 12:4 42:3 43:25 44:1 47:14
34:15 behest 32:6 bring 6:9 15:21 44:4,5,11,15 challenged 24:4
45:3 believe 29:4 30:7 19:25 24:10 44:20 45:1,1 48:12
47:5 50:21 46:2,3 47:13 challengers 39:9
belongs 17:24 broadly 53:12 52:23 54:9 55:2 53:3,5
better 35:15 business 5:4 9:14 20:18 characterization
28:12 C 35:10,12 36:2 35:3 43:4
13:18 birds 12:13 camp 16:18 49:6,7 53:9,12 charge 26:3,4
28:23 bit 3:20 18:16 54:20,20 53:13 51:7,8
38:23 21:16 capital 10:12 categories 51:17 check 8:21 12:7
41:1 55:9 blank 8:21 12:7 33:21,21 category 19:8,10 chemical 12:20
33:4 CAROL 1:3 51:25 29:25 30:3,4,6
bound 49:1 6:15 7:8,11,14 caused 51:22 Chief 3:3,9 17:12
40:4 53:24 8:13 10:3,25 causing 19:21 34:1,4,8,19
16:23 breadth 29:15 14:10 16:18 certain 18:8 19:5 choose 25:1
32:25 Breyer 14:8 18:6,22 19:13 51:7,16 chooses 51:2
53:3 15:14 21:24 19:18,20,24 certainly 4:22 circuit 11:18,25
22:16,20,23,24 22:6,11,18 23:7 40:17 52:23 28:15 32:11
54:10 29:17 31:22,24 Chadha 20:7 44:5 47:18,19
44:6,10 28:25 33:2 34:10,13,14,15 challenge 3:11 circuits 47:17
3:8 39:8,22 40:9,10
8:3,4,6,8 46:22 54:23 32:20 33:14,16 concluding 18:6 3:25 8:17 13:2
11:6,8,10 55:1,8 43:1 49:7 52:16 conclusion 18:4 19:21 24:5,24
15:22 clauses 41:24 52:16,18,21,23 51:12 33:5 39:23,25
45:14 46:19 53:9,11 54:2 concrete 3:16 41:6
18:10,11 clear 8:16 16:21 commandeers 33:16 constitutionality
28:5 9:17 24:13 concurrence 3:12 6:13
20:25 clearly 3:14 7:4 commerce 21:25 27:8 construction
12:6 34:16 42:1 24:6 28:23,25 confer 27:3 13:2,22 14:2
45:22 55:3 29:7,10 31:12 confess 55:4,5 contents 10:12
24:9 28:7 Clement 1:15 2:3 31:25 37:17 confirmed 17:19 context 4:6 15:9
2:14 3:6,7,9 4:5 42:2 44:3,7,13 32:23 24:2 28:4 34:15
5:1,12,22 6:6 46:3 47:6 54:23 conflate 54:17 39:14 41:7
6:15 7:1,12,19 55:1,8 confront 50:4 52:19
35:1,3,4 7:24 8:7,14 commitment confronted 17:4 continued 16:14
36:12,18 9:10 10:15 11:5 19:13 confusing 13:14 continues 15:23
38:11,24 11:9,23 12:25 commodity 29:10 40:13 contrary 18:2,4
39:22 13:11,15 15:5 30:24 Congress 6:17 37:5 50:4 54:13
15:17 17:13 commonly 14:4 6:20 7:8 11:2 control 30:15,15
28:5 47:1 52:9 Commonwealth 14:13,17 18:25 31:13
43:4,9 52:11,13 55:20 36:21,21 19:3 22:4,12 conventional
client 6:13 8:16 companies 26:1 24:5 29:11 21:4 28:3
8:18 9:6,6 26:3 54:15 31:10,12 33:6 convert 38:3
50:3,15 11:19 comparable 41:19 42:10 convicted 23:20
52:18 Clinton 20:8 48:7 39:21 44:21,24 45:11 conviction 4:9
53:14,17 cocktail 13:6 compares 12:11 46:7 47:4,8,11 20:12 24:19
7:5,5,6 cognizance 24:10 competes 14:19 7:21 17:22 correct 21:6
8:12 come 23:9 33:23 complaining 10:3 19:14 32:5,17 25:12 33:7 47:1
10:9 38:23 48:10,19 complaint 14:17 45:2 46:20 counsel 18:22,25
15:11 comes 15:14 41:17,22 connection 45:17 28:13 36:12
18:8 20:7 17:1 comprehensive 45:18 count 15:16
39:4 coming 11:25 30:19 consent 54:10 counterfactual
41:7 51:16 13:18 Comptroller 11:3 consider 21:24 16:6
54:2 commanded 25:4 Comstock 19:11 consideration couple 16:2
6:1,4,5 commandeered 33:15 37:10 36:10 court 1:1,12,23
4:14 49:2,23 25:15,19 26:14 43:11 drawn 9:12
8:10 10:1 criminalize 24:7 32:9 34:21,25 difficulties 34:13 Dreeben 1:17
11:21 critical 33:4 35:8 43:11,17 difficulty 43:25 2:6 17:14,15,17
13:5 crucial 24:23 47:14,15,21 direction 33:21 18:20 19:9
16:20,25 crystal 8:15 48:9 directly 29:8 20:15 21:15
18:5 curiae 1:22 2:11 defendants 20:7 37:5 22:5,9,14,17
20:21 34:6 24:4,11 35:5 disability 15:10 22:22,25 23:14
21:18,23 currently 28:18 defendant's disagree 39:16 23:23 24:16,22
23:2 26:6 customary 29:10 48:25 39:18 45:5 25:12,14,21
29:8,9 defended 10:5 53:13 26:6,11,18,24
33:9,11,20 D defense 11:1 discharged 55:23 27:5,15,20 28:1
35:1,4 D 1:15 2:3,14 3:1 33:24 38:10 discretion 37:11 29:3,23 30:2,10
3:7 52:11 define 42:14 37:15 31:9,20,21,23
38:12 database 24:15 defined 7:4 discussed 35:6 33:19,25 34:2,3
40:17 25:1,7 definition 44:14 discussing 22:25 52:17 54:3
43:3 44:2 day 15:21 28:11 definitions 37:21 24:25 drill 43:4
47:16,20 42:13 37:25 discussion 21:8 drive 31:15,18
48:2 deal 8:13 delegated 21:13 36:7 43:8 due 35:8 54:4
51:12 dealing 20:20 deny 34:20 disgruntled 10:6 D.C 1:8,15,18
death 30:6,8 Department 1:18 dispose 21:10
decades 28:9 depend 12:19 disputes 34:12 E
40:22 16:23 33:12 deprived 3:13 16:11 earlier 16:2
53:2 43:12 44:6,10 Deputy 1:17 dissent 7:16 easiest 4:9
25:24 26:4 29:18 28:19 distinction 9:12 effect 31:6 49:14
42:22 38:15 designed 31:18 22:1 effective 30:14
55:12 decides 47:4 details 52:20 distinguish 35:12 31:14
27:6 differ 28:22 29:2 45:24 17:6 18:5 21:7
52:25 decisis 49:14,25 39:15 43:16 34:10 54:1,4,5,14
17:24 defendant 3:23 55:10 doing 13:14 28:2 element 14:5
20:12 4:3,7,23,24 different 11:2,14 51:21 elements 19:11
33:24 5:13 10:25 15:3 16:10 domestic 47:10 eliminate 30:20
35:8 18:16,21 19:20 27:21 51:9 door 8:25 eloquent 8:23
47:13,19 19:22,22 23:9 53:16 doubting 22:21 else's 41:4
48:23,24 23:11,20 24:10 difficult 21:16 draw 18:14 emphasizes
28:25
19:4 22:4 establishing 6:7 falls 11:20 19:9 footnote 39:5 8:14 26:11,19
41:25 Establishment far 32:1 44:14 40:15 54:9 31:21,24 33:13
45:12 5:8,11,19,21 far-reaching force 25:22 54:4 33:23 47:12,17
47:5,8 6:1,5 29:16 54:5 give 6:12 8:8
events 6:10 feature 45:24 13:12 39:10 45:11
40:12 3:22,23 5:23 forever 12:5 29:15
12:17 19:6 40:17 47:24 13:5 14:6 20:2 found 47:13 giving 36:12
50:16 55:12 20:3 21:10,19 four 52:10 go 9:15 10:9,13
55:12 exceeded 9:7 38:2 48:8,11 free 6:3 10:2 goes 6:24 16:4
7:2,6,15 Excuse 36:6 federalism 20:10 friend's 29:19 goldfish 29:19
8:4,6 9:13 executive 5:24 55:11 Fund 10:2 55:13 30:7,8 31:4
17:22 10:3,4,4 55:14 field 15:15 fundamental 53:24
19:9 exemptions Fifth 35:8 9:11 good 13:19 16:16
23:16 30:18 figure 39:3 53:14 fundamentally 32:15 38:22
32:5,7,12 exempts 30:16 file 48:19 9:22 41:4,9
33:7 35:4 exercise 6:4 filed 38:18 further 31:23 governed 42:1
43:9,13 37:11 Finally 55:10 54:7 governing 15:20
explain 15:6 finished 14:13,13 government 8:2
34:16 36:22 flag 10:13 26:19 35:6 50:10 51:8
46:15 46:22 50:1 flying 12:14 Georgia 39:13 55:4
51:13 facts 40:13 following 16:1 54:9 13:23
hopelessly 54:17 10:14,21 20:11 invaded 19:17 7:7,18,24 8:5,7
50:14 16:6 23:7,20 50:8 51:3,6 invalidated 10:8,15 11:5,16
51:25 53:4 initially 50:17 31:25 22:20,23,24
44:20 images 9:16 inquiry 52:1 involves 30:25 26:11,19,20,24
imagine 3:16 INS 20:8 involving 47:19 27:1,5,8,9,17
44:9 52:23 40:17,19 irrespective 28:21 29:3,15
implement 19:4 instances 30:21 39:25 29:23,25 30:4
54:13 implicating 21:1 50:13 54:16 J 43:6,22 44:17
20:22 imprisoning 6:8 internal 21:20 judgment 1:22 54:23 55:19
imprisonment interstate 30:15 2:12 32:14
include 21:11 31:16,19 37:17 jurisdiction 3:22 Kagan 6:15 7:1,7
12:4,6,12 including 24:5 intrastate 29:9 jurisdictional 24:16,22 25:17
29:6 inconsistent 20:1 30:16 14:5 25:22 44:17
42:21 20:4,6 46:21 intrude 19:6 jurisprudence Kansas 1:21
24:1 25:9 laws 16:3 19:5 long 8:15 11:24 12:23 minute 38:20
26:20,25 lawsuit 48:23 longer 16:16,21 13:1 21:20 45:2 minutes 52:10
50:7,12 lawyer 38:18 54:21 49:25 53:5 56:2 mirror 9:16
44:9 long-term 49:20 mattered 23:1 44:13
12:22 54:16 54:10 1:21 2:10 34:4 9:22
16:6 legislation 5:9 looked 19:12,15 34:5,8,22 36:14 misnomer 3:21
42:11 46:8,21 looking 21:7 37:4,19 38:5,9 misread 18:6
23:15 legislative 47:10 27:11 40:1,5,10,16 Missouri 8:20
43:10,14 legitimate 12:16 looks 12:8 32:20 41:16,21 42:12 11:21 12:4,5,12
45:19 let's 7:7,18 10:10 Lopez 32:7 42:1 43:21,24 44:17 13:18,20 29:6
53:13 12:23 23:6 44:11 45:5 46:12 32:3,15 42:21
27:23 53:6 lose 25:20 49:11 47:12,16 49:3 mistake 12:3
21:5 22:20 liberty 3:13,17 loses 49:16 51:11,24 52:7,8 28:15
31:17 4:17 9:24 20:11 losing 13:18 55:21 model 22:15
50:13 license 15:21 lot 14:23 22:1,7 mean 5:23 10:22 modern 3:14
53:13 life 29:21 31:23 35:13 21:25 36:8 40:1 Molotov 13:6
light 32:21 42:20 36:7 43:7 40:6 47:4 49:1 moment 4:4
lower 16:22,25 meaning 36:11 39:20
7:22 47:23 53:2 meant 46:13 17:19 24:25
13:17 40:19 M 48:14,18,20 Morrison 42:1
42:18,19,23,24 majority 7:16 mentions 34:14 moving 33:20
22:22 35:15 6:22 8:1,16 merge 43:14 N
42:20 line-item 20:8 11:6,8,17 17:20 merits 13:8,10 N 2:1,1 3:1
litigants 51:17 18:10,23 32:22 25:17 31:22,24 nature 12:20
15:2 little 21:16 46:10,10 49:10 method 29:11 necessarily 41:5
17:25 local 10:23 14:20 49:12 MICHAEL 1:17 50:3,15
19:4,6,12 21:11,19 36:23 manner 19:17 2:6 17:15 necessary 9:17
22:1 24:4 38:2 52:24 marijuana 30:14 military 30:21 12:10 19:4,14
25:3,4 53:24 30:24 mind 40:18 50:19 24:6 29:5 31:13
32:4,12 locates 10:12 market 30:15,16 50:21 42:4,6,21 44:19
37:13 logic 4:18 31:7,11,13,16 minimal 45:18 44:22,23 45:3,7
53:24 logical 3:24 31:19 minor 54:22 45:16 46:8,22
47:3 54:11,12 36:18,18 49:2,4 4:13 43:1 47:10 53:19,21
47:7 50:5 order 31:14 47:8 PAUL 1:15 2:3 55:18 20:2,6,9 21:13
54:24 ordinary 4:20 2:14 3:7 52:11 plus 19:14 29:5 23:16 28:8 32:8
6:12 peaceful 30:16 point 9:1 10:1,16 32:12 33:7 35:4
36:2 48:7 14:7 Pennsylvania 15:24 20:9,10 42:23 43:9,13
55:17 outside 6:17 36:21 37:2,22 20:14 24:2,23 43:19,20,23,24
33:6 37:6 37:4,5 38:21 48:1 50:9 52:5
overlap 37:21,25 25:2 31:3,5,16 pointed 33:19 practically 48:14
54:7 51:1 54:22 precedent 12:2
pages 35:20 1:20 2:4,8,15 30:25 34:22 prerogatives
45:10 paragraphs 16:2 18:10 21:14,17 30:7 19:7 49:5
43:17 32:22,23 33:1,3 8:6 9:16 10:4 present 36:18
25:1,7 20:22 23:25 52:12 22:12 28:22,25 preserve 11:15
participate 27:7 28:13 33:2 36:1 37:18 40:2 president 41:19
52:22 plain 42:20 46:21 45:12,13,21,22 34:19 43:18
15:9 3:16 plaintiff 3:21,21 46:20,23 47:6 prevails 24:18
50:5 party 9:21 26:16
53:20 prosecutors quite 14:23 32:21 rebuttal 2:13 remainder 17:11
6:12 16:24 protected 21:2 R 1:17,21 2:6,10 recognized 28:9 19:2
32:2 43:14 protection 27:10 3:1 17:15 34:5 28:11,18 31:10 remember 15:11
26:21 27:8 20:17 30:23 42:1 11:14 reply 28:24
province 17:24 raise 5:7 11:1 redressability 35:18 39:11
9:20 11:16 9:24 24:25 24:17,21 25:15 refer 39:4 26:17
52:22 35:25 25:19 26:15 reference 16:1 representing
prudential 34:11 28:14,14 35:11 referring 39:8 48:9
41:2 48:4,5 raised 20:13 33:4 register 25:3 required 25:3
19:4,15 punishment 51:4 53:17 24:13 25:2 30:15
29:5 42:5 18:24 rates 22:3 regulate 10:11 requiring 24:14
44:19 pure 23:21 41:15 rationally 45:20 21:11 26:9 reservations
45:3,7 purely 21:19 reach 35:17 31:11 53:19,20 36:1
46:9,22 purported 10:23 51:12 regulated 21:20 reserve 17:11
purports 10:11 read 12:5 15:8 regulating 26:10 44:14
15:18 purposes 30:17 29:20 40:15 14:15 21:19 residuum 53:10
put 14:23 18:16 41:17 42:4 29:9 50:18 resolving 53:2,5
43:11,16 real 12:14,16 38:15 31:2 54:4
53:23 putting 53:23 really 4:15 12:7 Reid 35:11 respectfully 45:6
47:15 Q 26:21 31:17 reinject 55:2 Respondent 1:19
11:7 12:5 13:9 38:13 42:24 28:16 responsibility
16:10 23:18,24 47:2 51:25 53:7 relation 37:17 result 25:8
47:19 41:2 42:9,14 reason 3:24 4:17 relied 18:4 44:2 reverse 11:19
54:18 41:9 47:4 50:24
15:23,23 13:24 14:12,24 separation 10:7 45:18,21 23:4,22 25:18
17:1 15:25 16:7 17:7 20:6,9 48:1 Sotomayor 23:6 25:19,23 26:5,7
20:11 18:24,25 21:9 52:4 55:11,15 23:18 28:21 26:19 27:9,14
26:8 27:22 32:18 34:16 55:16 29:3 36:6 37:1 28:3,4,16 32:1
39:21 35:21,25 39:14 serious 3:13 27:2 41:12,17 42:8 32:13 34:10,11
53:1 40:8,10,19 42:6 serving 4:8 48:22 49:15 34:13,14,18,20
44:19,20 46:17 set 7:4 23:11 Sotomayor's 35:5,7 36:11,13
35:10,23 53:11 54:25 sets 23:8 sought 33:8 38:22,25 39:5
41:8 50:20 Scalia 4:21 5:7 setting 48:14 sovereign 21:1 40:7,21,25 41:5
5:16 6:3 13:8 settings 49:7 25:6 27:6 48:17 42:14,25 47:14
17:12 28:1 31:15 37:9 share 37:7 19:23 20:24 53:1,2,4,4
34:1,4,19 37:24 38:6 Shearson 17:6 28:7,10,17,18 54:15,17
52:6,9 50:23 51:18 sheriffs 26:22 32:19 33:1,17 stands 15:18,22
scope 28:12 45:3 show 9:7 19:21 33:22 49:24 stare 49:14,25
53:8 side 20:2 33:17 special 10:16 10:14 12:14,16
15:20 17:21 35:24 sides 51:5 32:19 52:15 19:7,16,25 20:1
25:23 36:5 41:24 42:2 similar 53:25 specific 9:5,5 20:3,24 21:21
36:15 42:18 44:16 simple 53:6 19:22 20:13,23 23:1,3,7,11
45:12,15,17,23 simply 42:25 21:1 26:8 28:4 25:1,5 26:9,13
51:9 single 14:10 39:2 36:10 27:12 28:7,10
self-identify 8:2 17:1 37:16,19 49:13,16,20
22:2 15:25 22:23 52:19 53:3 12:1 13:9,14,16 3:5 16:3,8
25:9 29:1 39:2 40:4,6,6 sort 6:23 7:25 14:7,22 15:13 17:24 19:11
39:20 54:21 13:4,21,23 15:20,20 16:10 20:24 23:4
29:14 submitted 55:25 taken 16:8 16:19,20 54:16 34:11 36:16
36:2 41:8 56:2 takes 26:8 Thank 17:12,17 41:2 48:4 49:8
45:10 47:7 substantial 31:6 talk 4:3,6 38:13 34:1,3,8 52:6,8 51:14 52:2,3
substantive 36:3 38:14 52:1 52:13 55:19 Thornton 19:24
50:16,16 subtle 17:8 talking 24:1 theory 13:24 thought 13:14
51:1,2 successfully 34:20 35:22 18:17 50:11 14:18 23:25
54:11 42:16 40:6 48:4,5 thing 7:19 14:1,3 thousands 30:25
suggestion 9:20 51:16,25 14:9 15:7 26:1 30:25
12:8,12 suggests 15:16 tea 5:14 20:20 22:8 throws 13:6
49:5,24 suit 14:22 26:16 technical 11:24 36:15 49:15 tied 45:20
39:6 48:24 tell 27:11 36:9 think 3:20 4:4,5 time 14:19 17:11
6:14 38:18 11:14 16:17 6:11 7:12,24 today 20:25 21:2
7:9 support 1:19,22 17:5 18:5 21:7 9:19 10:15,19 21:21 23:16
2:7,11 17:16 21:17 34:15 11:2,12,20 12:3 28:5 32:23
13:5 32:14 33:2 34:6 53:6,10,11,15 12:3,11,17,25 54:18
20:1,3,3 55:22 53:18 54:1,4,5 13:1,3,4,16,17 today's 22:15,17
26:2 suppose 5:7 8:18 54:14 13:19,21 14:9 told 9:1
12:20 26:14,20 Tenth 6:18,22 14:11 15:6,8,18 toxic 30:5,5
30:12,13 26:21 29:17 7:4,5,10,22 16:11,18,20 traditional 53:20
31:18 supposed 14:24 10:8,17 15:11 18:5,21 21:16 trap 8:25
45:8 15:1,1,3,4 15:21 16:23 22:14 25:22 treaties 45:23
47:15 Supreme 1:1,12 17:2 18:10,15 27:20 28:1,15 46:9,10
50:2 sure 5:1 7:3 18:18 19:5 21:2 28:17 31:9 32:2 treaty 11:17
55:6 29:23 30:2 46:5 21:9,22 22:7 32:14,23 33:7 12:10 19:5
surrendered 35:14,25 36:3 40:21 41:6,9,15 32:13 35:10
34:5 sustainable 40:24 41:7,10 51:4 52:3 53:16 45:1,9,11,13
24:24 20:16 23:23 38:3 third-party 25:23 true 39:11 46:2
18:16 United 1:1,6,12 violated 14:14 30:21 1
32:24 3:5 10:1 19:11 violates 6:22 went 7:14 1 35:24
39:3 42:14 29:14 30:20 24:12 we're 6:7,8 11:11 10:19 1:13 3:2
46:14 36:2 45:10 47:7 violating 23:9 13:10,15 34:20 11:19 56:1
50:16 55:17 violation 6:1,4 40:6 41:13 48:3 17 2:8 41:24
35:24 45:23
20:21 36:23 virtue 16:21 willing 30:10
1:9
23:7,10 unusual 44:1 vis--vis 49:5 win 11:18
1:9
26:1 upset 37:2 voice 50:5 window52:4
8:17 17:21
40:7 urging 27:19 vs 8:20 wins 49:18
47:5,8
47:21 use 7:7 27:17,23 wish 17:22
20:20 usual 36:15 waive 50:19 36:9 3
54:22 utility 54:14 55:14 words 6:20 47:9 3 2:4 42:2
v 1:5 3:4 11:21 37:15 49:17 wouldn't 5:16 4
35:11 37:24,25 38:13 44:7 50 16:15
48:12 vagueness 35:9 1:15,18 wrong 11:22 15:1
52:21 wax 8:23 70 40:21
13:17 veto 20:8 12:14 15:18 8 8:11 36:5 37:14
21:12 view 15:2,3 20:13 28:22 Y 41:24 42:18
32:22 21:22 29:7 33:9 32:8,13 40:18 years 3:17 16:15 44:16 45:15,17
44:18 46:25 52:3 43:17 45:9 49:1 16:17 37:14 45:25 46:18,24
49:19 viewed 22:18,19 49:13 54:2,8 40:21 42:22 51:9
47:2 vindicate 3:18 ways 3:20 36:10 36:2 48:7 50:16
55:17 9
42:22
38:10 vinegar 29:19 weapon 12:23
47:6 30:2,7 31:4,8 13:24 30:1,3,4
