IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MICHIGAN, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-150
RICHARD PERRY BRYANT :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 5, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
LORI B. PALMER, ESQ., Assistant Prosecuting Attorney,
Detroit, Michigan; on behalf of Petitioner.
LEONDRA R. KRUGER, ESQ., Acting Deputy Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as Amicus Curiae, Supporting
Petitioner.
PETER JON VAN HOEK, ESQ., Assistant Defender, Detroit,
Michigan; on behalf of Respondent; appointed by this
Court.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
LORI B. PALMER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
LEONDRA R. KRUGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as
Amicus Curiae, Supporting the Petitioner 20
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PETER JON VAN HOEK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 31
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
LORI B. PALMER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 61
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 09-150, Michigan v. Bryant.
Ms. Palmer.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LORI B. PALMER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. PALMER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Formality is indeed essential to testimonial
utterance. So said this Court in Davis, which dealt
with two related situations: On-the-scene questioning
by police officers and questions by 9-1-1 operators.
This Court noted that such questioning may often lack
the formality essential to testimonial utterance, as
officers called to investigate need to know whom they
are dealing with in order to assess a situation, the
threat to themselves, and the potential danger to
possible victims.
The question here is whether those same
assessing questions -- what happened, who did it, where
did it happen -- asked by police officers who, upon
receiving a radio report of a man shot, found a wounded
man lying on the ground next to a car at a gas station,
bleeding, visibly in pain, and having trouble talking -
were made in a formal context sufficiently similar to a
magisterial examination so that the answers by the dying
-- by the dying victim are testimonial.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it can't all
be the formality of the context. I mean, if the police
came in and said, well, has this person -- Rick, I
guess -- sold you drugs before, what was the -- what was
the quantity, and all those sorts of questions, the
answers to that would be testimonial, despite the same
lack of formality.
MS. PALMER: Which is where the ongoing
emergency test from Davis comes into play. The
questions need to be -- the primary purpose needs to be
to meet an ongoing emergency. So assessing the risk,
assessing the danger to others. And any questions
beyond that could arguably be testimonial, while -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do we -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Forget about formality, in
other words. Formality or no formality has nothing to
do with it.
MS. PALMER: Well, under Davis, you said
that was how you tested the formality. If -- the Davis
test is a gauge of formality. If there are questions
that respond to ongoing emergency, then this Court has
said that that is an indicator that it lacks the
formality.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do we tell that?
Because it seems to me, here, if you want to know what
happened, you'd ask the very same questions. You're
saying the questions are relevant also to securing the
situation. But what -- what different questions would
you ask if you wanted to find out what happened? What
was the past -- what were the past events?
I mean, I'm trying to understand how you
take these questions and say we can put a label on them
here that says, well, this is to control an emergency
situation versus we want to know what happened
historically.
MS. PALMER: Well, I think that what you
have to do is look at the -- I mean, obviously, things
can have dual purposes and often will. You need to look
at the primary purpose here. And you said in Davis it's
an objective -- what would an objective person
viewing this test -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But whose primary
purpose is it?
I mean, the victim here knew that the
incident hadn't happened there. There was nothing he
had to share with the police, because they could see he
was bleeding from his stomach and he had been shot. He
apparently didn't fear any threat, or there doesn't seem
to be any circumstances suggesting an immediate threat
to him. He had driven away. Rick didn't know where he
had gone.
So what's the ongoing emergency to the
victim?
MS. PALMER: Well, I think here -- which is
why in Davis you said is the primary purpose of the
questioning, is what you look at in Davis. And we're
not asking you to overrule that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, wait a minute.
What is the primary -- isn't -- doesn't -- isn't there a
footnote that says the primary purpose of the declarant
is what is at issue?
JUSTICE SCALIA: That is -- that is what it
says.
MS. PALMER: What -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's the -- it's the -
it's the purpose of the declarant, not of the
questioner.
MS. PALMER: But the formality indicators
that the Court delineated in Davis did not include
whether the answers to the questions were for the
purpose of establishing past events, but whether the
primary purpose of the questions were for those ends.
The -- the question is one of context, not
content, as you noticed in -- as you said in Crawford.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, in Davis, the
issue is why was the declarant talking? What you were
trying to do was to figure out whether the declarant was
seeking help or attempting to get someone arrested.
That's how I read the situation.
The questions provided context for that.
Are you seeking immediate ongoing help or are you
talking about an event, attempting to get the police to
intercede and arrest the person?
Isn't that a fair reading of that case?
MS. PALMER: Yes. And in Davis, you said
also that there comes a point where courts can tell when
the questioning takes on a different tone and the
answers might become testimonial.
When the questioning seeks answers that go
beyond meeting the emergency, then courts can properly
find there's a point where the nontestimonial statements
end and the testimonial statements -
JUSTICE ALITO: In a situation like this, do
you think it's meaningful to ask what the primary
purpose of the victim was when he responded to the
police and said who shot him?
You have a man who has just been shot. He
has a wound that's going to turn out to be fatal, and
he's lying there on the ground bleeding profusely, and
he says: My primary purpose in saying this is so that
they can respond to an ongoing emergency. No, but I
also have the purpose of giving them information that
could be used at trial, but it's a little less -- that's
a little bit less my purpose than responding to the
ongoing emergency.
It seems like it's totally artificial.
MS. PALMER: Yes. And I think it -- any
time you ask the courts to delve into the subjective
intent of someone who is not present and cannot testify
and cannot tell you, it necessarily complicates things.
And I think it would -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What possible response to
an ongoing emergency could he have had in mind? What
possible response to an ongoing emergency?
MS. PALMER: He did ask for EMS -
JUSTICE SCALIA: He was bleeding to death,
and he could have said, you know, I'm bleeding to death.
Now, that statement would -- would be, you know,
suggesting an ongoing emergency.
But giving the name of the person who shot
him, where he was shot, what does that have anything -
how does that have anything to do with an ongoing
emergency?
MS. PALMER: Well, the police, upon
responding to the scene, don't know that this emergency
is limited -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But he does.
MS. PALMER: -- to that person.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But he does.
MS. PALMER: Which is why you have to look
at the entire context.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He knows -- he knows that
his -- that the person that shot him is nowhere near
there. He knows that -- that he drove, what -- how far
away was it? Six blocks or -- a good distance from
where the shooter was. He knows all of that.
The only reason he could be giving the name
of the person who shot him is so that person could be
apprehended and punished.
MS. PALMER: And yet that subjective mindset
doesn't affect the formality. It doesn't change the
fact that this is an informal situation. You don't have
the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose he had -- suppose
he had survived. Suppose Covington had survived -
MS. PALMER: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- instead of died. And
then the prosecutor says, I want to introduce this
evidence against Bryant. Would you say that, yes, it's
nontestimonial, so it comes in?
MS. PALMER: He would have to be unavailable
for it to come in.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But why, if it's
nontestimonial?
MS. PALMER: Well, under -- the way the
current jurisprudence is, he would have to be
unavailable. If it's not testimonial, I do not think it
would offend the Confrontation Clause for it to come in.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If you said -- you said
it's -- you're typing it nontestimonial. It goes to
emergency situations. So I'm saying: Would that carry
over to the man survives and the prosecutor says, I
don't need to put him on the stand so he can be
cross-examined; I've got nontestimonial evidence that I
can put in?
Would it become testimonial, then, if he
survived?
MS. PALMER: No, I don't think it would
change the nature of what happened at the time. I do
think, though, that is why we have said the
Confrontation Clause is not some sort of super-hearsay
rule and that we will allow the Government -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then -- then your
answer is that if we typed it as nontestimonial in my
trial scenario, it would be nontestimonial; it comes in.
MS. PALMER: As long as it was not somehow
barred by the rules of hearsay, which I believe it would
be.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm confused of
what -- what Davis focuses our inquiry on. Is it the
purpose of the interrogators or is it the purpose of the
declarants?
We say the statements are testimonial when
the circumstances objectively indicate that there is no
such ongoing emergency and that the primary purpose of
the interrogation is to establish or prove past events.
The -- the focus seems to be on the purpose of the
interrogation, which seems to be the question of what
the police thought, not what the -- the person dying
thought.
MS. PALMER: That's correct. And I
understand there is the footnote stating that,
obviously, the declarant's statements are at issue. If
there were no declarant, then -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, I mean -
MS. PALMER: -- there wouldn't be an issue.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But what the
footnote -- I'm sorry to interrupt you, but what the
footnote says is, in the final analysis, it's the
declarant's statements, not the interrogator's question,
that the Confrontation Clause requires us to evaluate.
So which -- I guess, which is it?
MS. PALMER: Well, I think what happens is
the -- the interrogator's statements are not what are
going to be determined to be testimonial or
nontestimonial. They provide a glimpse into the context
so we can determine whether those statements that are at
issue are testimonial or nontestimonial. They are one
way to determine the formality of the situation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: One way to evaluate those
statements is what they are made in response to. If
they are made in response to a certain type of police
inquiry, they are more likely to be testimonial. And
another kind -- you know, are you dying? They are more
likely not to be testimonial. But it is ultimately the
statements that -- that we have to evaluate, whether
they are testimonial or not.
MS. PALMER: Correct. But as -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then, how does
that apply? The officer says, what happened? And
the -- the declarant says, Rick shot me.
Now, is that testimonial or not? Because
the declarant knows he's 6 miles away. It's not going
to help them solve an emergency, but the police don't
know that.
MS. PALMER: Right, which is why I think you
look at the purpose of the questioning -- here, to
respond to an ongoing emergency. The police don't
know -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if it was an
emergency, he wouldn't have asked, what happened? He
would ask, what is happening?
MS. PALMER: I don't -
JUSTICE SCALIA: To ask what happened is to
ask the declarant to describe past events, which is
testimonial.
MS. PALMER: I don't think that you can make
that kind of bright-line rule. I think here when you
have a man bleeding out on a sidewalk and you don't
know -- is there an assailant behind him; is there -
are there victims somewhere else; is, you know, this a
wanted felon -- I think there is an ongoing emergency
until you can determine -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you -- you do not know
if the man is running amok and threatening to shoot
other people or if -- if he's drunk, if he's on a
rampage, if it's a college campus, then it's -- it's -
it's a sniper. You just don't know.
MS. PALMER: Right. But -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you can -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if you're worried about
that, do you run immediately over to the person lying on
the ground or do you examine the gas station first,
rather than expose yourself to the -- to the shooter
that you think is still in the gas station?
The -- the behavior of the police here gave
no indication that they thought they were in danger
immediately and were interrogating this person in order
to assess the danger to them. That wasn't what they
were after.
MS. PALMER: Well, to be fair, this was
before Crawford was answered. The questions were asked
were to determine whether this was an excited utterance,
and the questions that we would like to know now were:
What did you do for your safety? How were you worried?
What were -- that was not at issue, and that was not
asked.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm not -- I'm not
sure that policemen should read Crawford before they
perform their -- their peacekeeping duties. The -
no -- no one questions the right of the police to -- to
ask these questions and to use the word either "happens"
or "happening" or "happened."
The question is whether the -- the answers
are later admissible. Those are two different
inquiries.
MS. PALMER: Correct. And I was simply
saying the record would have been available to check -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And, of course, Crawford
rejects reliability as a criteria.
MS. PALMER: Yes. So our position here
simply is that you cannot evaluate an ongoing emergency
from hindsight.
When police -- you know, arrive on a scene
and find a wounded man bleeding, they don't know the
circumstances until they can find out what happened, who
did it, and where did it happen, and try to assess the
risk of harm, as you said in Davis, to themselves, to
the victim, and to others.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But what does that have
to do -- we're back to the reliability test, really,
because they didn't do anything wrong. They were trying
to assess the situation. But that's what they do when
any report of criminal activity occurs. That's a
different inquiry than the inquiry of why should that
statement be permitted to be introduced at trial?
It goes to the very essence of reliability.
Was the statement made under circumstances that would
suggest an intent to testify? That's really what you're
getting at, isn't it?
MS. PALMER: No. No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you are, because
you're trying to pigeonhole yourself into an ongoing
emergency that suggests that in those situations,
whatever the person is saying is okay because it was
done to assess an emergency situation and not done for
purposes of catching somebody, primary purpose of
catching somebody.
MS. PALMER: Which is what this Court said
in Davis, and said that that was not related to
reliability but to formality there, and that that was
not a formal thing akin to magisterial examinations.
We're not trying to question or in any way
change the test already set forth by this Court in
Davis. We agree with that test. We simply disagree
with the application by the lower court of that test
here and the limitation it put on it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So are you saying that
the rule would be that whenever the perpetrator may be
in the vicinity, then the police are pursuing an urgent
emergency situation, rather than trying to find out what
had -- the nature of the crime?
MS. PALMER: We're not saying that any time
there is a perpetrator at large, there is automatically
an ongoing emergency until that person is caught.
What we are saying is that preliminary
inquiries on the scene to try to determine who the
perpetrator is and where it might be would be -- would
be nontestimonial -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: For all crimes, or only
for shooting crimes or knifing crimes? For explosions?
What kinds of crimes would qualify?
MS. PALMER: I think, obviously, violent
crimes raise ongoing emergencies, emergencies to
which -- more than others. There could also be contexts
in which it would apply to other crimes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So at least whenever the
police come upon somebody who has been the victim of a
violent crime, whatever interrogation they conduct could
plausibly be to -- to make sure that the person is not
still nearby, and that testimony will always be
admissible?
MS. PALMER: It is preliminary questions
designed to assess the risk to themselves, the public,
and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, no.
MS. PALMER: So, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Strike "designed to assess
the risk." You don't know what they're designed to do.
These policemen didn't say we're assessing the risk.
They just asked the questions. And that's what is going
to happen in future cases.
And you're saying, whenever policemen come
upon a victim of violent crime and said who did it,
what's his name, all of that will always be admissible
because they -- they could be assessing the risk, right?
MS. PALMER: I think if the context shows
that's the primary purpose, then, yes, that will often
be the case.
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you mean? How
could it possibly be admissible?
First, there has to be a degree of
formality, as the Court held in Hammon, sitting in the
kitchen; and, second, it has to satisfy State hearsay
tests. So unless it's an exception to the hearsay rule,
it is not admissible.
MS. PALMER: Well, here, for instance, it
was admitted as excited utterance.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, of course, there are
exceptions. There could, in fact, there could be a
co-conspirator exception. There could be a dying
declaration exception. But what we're talking about is
whether the Constitution keeps it out, even though State
law -- because, say, it's a co-conspirator exception -
would permit it in.
So the answer is no, it's not the case that
whenever you come across a victim of a crime and ask him
questions, it's going to be admissible. It depends.
The State hearsay law, the exception, and whether
there's a degree of formality, as there was in Hammon.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Only when he's excited,
right? Only when the victim who has been the object of
a violent crime is excited.
Or if State law doesn't apply and we're
dealing with a Federal crime and Federal officers,
right, and trial in Federal court? And in that case,
what Justice Breyer just said would not apply.
MS. PALMER: That's correct. And I -
JUSTICE BREYER: It would not apply? There
are -- there isn't a Federal hearsay rule? And there
are not exceptions that you have to satisfy?
MS. PALMER: Your -- I -
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought there were, in my
copy of the Federal Rules of Evidence.
MS. PALMER: Yes. And I did misspeak. What
I meant to say was that it would be nontestimonial, not
that it would always be admissible.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In the -- if you had the
benefit of hindsight, and this trial occurred before
Davis, and so the prosecutor went on excited utterance,
would you have instead tried to make a case that this
was a dying declaration?
MS. PALMER: Absolutely.
I'd like to reserve whatever time I have
left.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Kruger.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LEONDRA R. KRUGER,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MS. KRUGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
As we understand the rule of
Davis v. Washington, it is a rule that focuses on the
primary purpose behind police interrogation, because
it's designed for a particular purpose: Not to provide
a comprehensive definition of the term "testimonial,"
but rather to identify those statements that are
testimonial because they are made in response to police
interrogation.
When the objective primary purpose of that
interrogation is to enable police to meet an ongoing
emergency, rather than to collect evidence for future
possible prosecution, the statements that are given in
response to that interrogation are nontestimonial. That
was -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you distinguish between
collecting evidence for a future prosecution and
collecting evidence in order to pursue and arrest the
felon? Do you distinguish those two?
And you can say these police -- these
policemen weren't collecting evidence for a future
prosecution; they just wanted to know who the shooter
was and where he was so they could go get him. Would
that -
MS. KRUGER: Well, I think that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would that not be
collecting evidence for a future prosecution?
MS. KRUGER: I think that there are often
multiple reasons, particularly in the wake of a violent
event like a shooting, why -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you say it has to be
for the purpose of a future prosecution. Just -- just
in order to an arrest and bring into jail the person who
committed this crime, that doesn't qualify?
MS. KRUGER: I think that what would qualify
under the Davis test is if police need to apprehend the
person, not for purposes of bringing the person into the
criminal justice system, but rather to neutralize an
ongoing threat that they present to the community at
large, as is often the case when somebody has just
proven themselves both capable and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: When does that not exist in
the case of a violent crime? When does that not exist?
MS. KRUGER: I think it makes a significant
difference -
JUSTICE SCALIA: There's a violent criminal
out there.
MS. KRUGER: Justice Scalia, I think it
makes a significant difference whether we're talking
about a -- an act of violence like a shooting, somebody
who has used a weapon that's capable of inflicting
deadly harm on multiple victims in a short period of
time, or someone who has used their fists, like the
alleged perpetrators -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. So if you use a gun,
a knife, or a machine gun, whatever the victim says gets
admitted into evidence, because the police could -
could be not -
MS. KRUGER: I don't think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- not trying to get
evidence, but just trying to safeguard society against
the -- the felon on the loose?
MS. KRUGER: I don't think that we would
draw the rule that broadly, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought that's how you
just described it.
MS. KRUGER: Well, I think that in this
situation, we have police arriving on the scene to
discover a man who has been recently shot; as it turns,
fatally.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MS. KRUGER: They need to find out in that
situation -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Who did it.
MS. KRUGER: They need to find out who did
it so that they make sure that person isn't continuing
to threaten other people on the scene.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's always the case.
That's such a phony evasion of what the purpose of the
testimonial rule is. That's always going to be the
case, at least when there's a violent crime.
MS. KRUGER: Well, I think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you may as well take
Crawford and throw it out, in -- in the majority of
serious cases, if that's going to be your rule.
MS. KRUGER: I don't think that that's the
case at all, Justice Scalia. I think it's actually very
much consistent with what this Court said in Davis.
It may very well have been that the
subjective purpose of the 9-1-1 operator was also to
bring the perpetrator in that case to justice. But this
Court, I think quite properly, recognized that in an
emergency situation, the attention of both law
enforcement and the declarant is quite properly going to
be focused on dealing with the emergency at hand and is
not going to be made of the kind of focused
understanding of -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The crime was ongoing in -
in Davis when -- when the woman was on the phone with
the operator. It was ongoing. She was seeking help
from the emergency that was occurring to her at that
moment. There's nothing like that here.
MS. KRUGER: It's true that that is a
factual distinction between this case and Davis, but we
don't think that it's one that makes a dispositive legal
difference.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did the police know that
that was the case when they began the questioning? Did
the police know that this man was not on a rampage, that
he was not going to act in self-defense when they came
after him?
MS. KRUGER: No, they certainly did not know
that, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That he was not taking
hostages?
MS. KRUGER: That's correct. They had no
way of knowing that. And neither, for that matter -- I
think it's important to emphasize -- did the declarant.
The fact that he was able to escape the scene and
managed to drive himself six blocks away in no way
indicates that he had any -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Will they ever know that?
MS. KRUGER: I -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, is that -- is that
likely not always to be the case when -- when you come
upon a person who has been the -- the victim of a
violent crime?
You could say it all the time. No, they
didn't know where the -- where the offender was, so
whatever this person says comes in as evidence in a
trial.
MS. KRUGER: Well, I think it's important to
emphasize that what we're arguing for is not a rule that
would say, as long as there's a violent perpetrator at
large, as long as he is at large, any questions that
police ask of -- of potential people who have
information about the crime will necessarily be
nontestimonial.
Our argument is a far narrower one, and one
that we think follows very closely from the principle
articulated in Davis, which is when the primary purpose
of a police interrogation is to obtain information
that's necessary to enable them to meet an ongoing
emergency -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, how do you know
that? Because they would ask the same very questions if
what they wanted was testimonial evidence. So you
can -- you can characterize that set of questions either
way. What would lead us to pick one rather than the
other?
MS. KRUGER: I think it's actually not the
case, Justice Ginsburg, that they would have asked the
very same questions. We know from reading the trial
testimony that the officers, as they appeared on the
scene in response to the police run of a man being shot,
asked the same question over and over again. Each
officer, as they approached him, said: What happened?
Where did it happen? And wanted to know how to
recognize the shooter so when they proceeded to the
scene, they would know who they were dealing with and
how to safeguard themselves.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let's say -
MS. KRUGER: They weren't asking the kinds
of questions -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let's say that we -- let's
say that we agree with you that there was an emergency
and the police were asking questions in order to
mitigate the emergency.
What would be the rationale for admitting
this statement, then? Is it more reliable? Because if
we say that, then we're undercutting Crawford, which
says reliability is not the key.
What is the reason for that? Is it because
the police likely have less motive to manipulate the -
the statements and to ask loaded questions? That in
itself, it seems to me, is a reliable -- but what's
the -- assuming we adopt your distinction, what's the
rationale for the distinction?
MS. KRUGER: We think that the principle
that this Court announced in Davis and we're asking the
Court to apply again today reflects two principles that
underlie the Confrontation Clause as this Court
interpreted in Crawford.
The first is that testimony is typically
characterized by the kind of focused understanding by
the declarant that the person is providing information
for potential use in a future prosecution. It's -- the
petitioner in Davis, I would note, made an argument to
this Court that whenever a person calls 9-1-1, they do
so with an awareness that the information they provide
may be used for prosecutorial purposes.
But this Court rejected that argument,
because it understood, I think quite rightly, that
there's a difference between providing that sort of
information to law enforcement with a sort of vague
awareness that that might be its potential use, and
doing so with a kind of focused understanding that has
been characteristic of the testimonial statements this
Court has so far identified, like Sylvia Crawford's
stationhouse interview in Crawford or Amy Hammon's
interview with the police officer from the safety of her
kitchen that resulted in the execution of a formal
affidavit in the Davis case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we look to the
specific situation? I mean, one of the officers zeroed
in on the victim. No one was looking around to see if
anybody was lurking in the bushes. Then, as far as
protecting the public, do we take into account that this
was between 3:30 and 4:00 in the morning when there are
not likely to be many members of the public around? Or
do we just say you find someone who looks like he has
been the victim of a violent crime, doesn't matter
whether the public is around or not, we -- that's
enough, the victim of a violent crime can be asked these
questions?
MS. KRUGER: To take your first question
first, Justice Ginsburg, I think that the trial
testimony is not quite as clear on the question of what
fears the officers had as I think Respondent has
suggested in his brief. If you look at Joint Appendix
page 136, Officer Stuglin testified that he was, in
fact, afraid for his safety when he got to the gas
station. I would note that all of the officers, when
they left the gas station after EMS arrived, they
proceeded immediately to the location of the shooting,
the location that Anthony Covington had identified for
them. When they got there, they took a tactical
position, they waited for back-up, and they did so
because they were afraid that a shooter was in the
house, and they wanted to proceed very cautiously in
making sure that they neutralized the threat that
shooter posed to the public safety, including their own.
I think that in examining the exigencies of
a situation a court would be justified in looking at the
circumstances in which the crime occurred, and could
very well take into account the fact that the crime
occurred at 3 o'clock in the morning as opposed to 5
o'clock in the afternoon. But I think that we would
expect any reasonable police officer to do precisely
what the police officers in this case did, which was
proceed directly to the scene, not use their interview
with Anthony Covington as an occasion to execute an
affidavit or otherwise engage -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but then you're
saying that the focus is on the police officers. I
mean, after all, we're not saying that police officers
can't do this; we're just saying the testimonial aspects
can't be admitted into evidence or that's what your
friend is arguing for. I still have trouble figuring
out is the issue the purpose of the interrogating
officers or the purpose and intent of the declarant?
MS. KRUGER: I think that the test that the
Court set out in Davis is one that focuses on the
purpose of the interrogation because of the limited
context in which that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. And what do
you do with the last sentence of footnote 1. It's the
one that says -
MS. KRUGER: In the end it's the declarant's
statement that the Confrontation Clause requires us to
examine.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right, right.
MS. KRUGER: We read footnote 1 to be an
acknowledgement that answers given in response to police
interrogation do not constitute the universe of possible
testimonial statements, that testimony can indeed be
volunteered as was Lord Cobham's letter, for example, in
Sir Walter Raleigh's treason case. But in the end
Davis, I think, quite properly focuses on the primary
purpose of the interrogation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Van Hoek.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER JON VAN HOEK
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. VAN HOEK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
When Anthony Covington made his statement to
the officers at the gas station, not just once but
several times, he reasonably understood that he was
providing the police information as to events which had
concluded a half hour earlier at a location six blocks
away, with an understanding that that information would
assist the police in locating, apprehending, and
potentially prosecuting the person he felt was
responsible for his injury.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I didn't hear the end. In
locating and?
MR. VAN HOEK: Apprehending.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Apprehending.
MR. VAN HOEK: Arresting -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- involves something like
that, if -- what keeps that out? I mean, assuming that
a State law or the Federal Rules of Evidence admit it as
an exception to the hearsay rule, why should the
Confrontation Clause bar it? There is not great
likelihood that, like Sir Walter Raleigh or Cobham's
affidavit, it is going to be introduced per se into the
trial as a form of evidence that there was -- why would
we want to keep it out? That's the part that I do not
understand.
MR. VAN HOEK: Well, certainly -
JUSTICE BREYER: Federal -- I mean, under
the Federal Constitution.
MR. VAN HOEK: Under the Federal
Constitution -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think your answer,
counsel, is that we decided that in Crawford, from which
Justice Breyer dissented.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I think you might have
another -
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose I think we didn't.
Suppose I happen to think -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Perhaps there is another
answer that I would like to hear.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'd like to hear your
answer because I don't think we decided it in Crawford.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now is a good time
to try to jump in, I think.
(Laughter.)
MR. VAN HOEK: Okay. The reason, Your
Honor, that the Confrontation Clause is the
fundamental -- part of the fundamental law of the
country, and what this Court, I believe, decided in
Crawford and then applied to those situations -- similar
situations in Davis and Hammon, is that where you have a
statement from a witness to a police officer as part of
a questioning and that statement is the functional
equivalent of testimony that witness would have given
had he or she appeared at trial and been subject to
cross-examination, then the admission of that statement
at trial even under a hearsay exception without
cross-examination effectively allows the police to
present -
JUSTICE BREYER: But does it mean -- does it
mean that the individual is thinking this may be used -
there's a certain formality to the situation; it may be
used at trial? Or it may just happen to turn out? I
mean, what is the relevance of the formality of the
situation? When I looked into history I thought -- I'm
not an expert in history, and I'm also -- I understand
there have been situations where the Court's gone back
to prior cases and looked at footnotes and said it
doesn't express things precisely clearly and changed it
a little bit. I think that that goal could be open to
us.
So I want to know what the basic reason is
that there -- that would justify keeping out, let's say,
an investigation. There's an investigation of a crime,
and a policeman comes across a confederate who makes
some statements just generally that help the
investigation; therefore, it would come in under -- as
co-conspiracy, okay?
What in the Constitution, what functional
principle, is there that says we should keep that out of
Court?
MR. VAN HOEK: Because I think what this
Court said in Crawford and Davis is that is the primary
test. That is what our Constitution requires to allow
the reliability, the believability, the trustworthiness
of that evidence to be evaluated by a jury. We don't
have a situation -
JUSTICE BREYER: Is it all hearsay? Now,
all -- all hearsay evidence, despite State or Federal
rule makers saying there are exceptions where the
trustworthiness is sufficient, such as co-confederates,
confederates, all of that's wiped out by Crawford and
the -
MR. VAN HOEK: It would be wiped out if the
statement at issue qualifies as testimonial under the
test this Court announced in Crawford and Davis.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what we said in
Crawford, isn't it?
MR. VAN HOEK: Yes, it is.
JUSTICE BREYER: Of course, what I'm looking
for now because I'm -- is whether there's any sense to
that. What is the constitutional rationale? I joined
Crawford, but I have to admit to you I've had many
second thoughts when I've seen how far it has extended
as I have written it.
MR. VAN HOEK: Well, I would have to say the
constitutional justification for that is the reason why
the right of confrontation is, isn't it, in the
Constitution, where you had a situation in English
common law, as we said, where magistrates were allowed
to go out, interview witnesses, come into court, and
present their memory, their version, of what the witness
said as substantive evidence in a case and the defense
is not allowed to question or talk to the witness -
JUSTICE BREYER: So now you've just got what
I'm looking for. What I'm looking for is I can go into
Blackstone a little bit and look back and see what this
was after, was the problem of Sir Walter Raleigh's trial
and the Marian judges. And now what I need is a line.
Because if I can't find a line, then what we've done,
which seems just as wrong to me, is suddenly bar
virtually all hearsay exception evidence, of which for
400 years, or 200 years anyway, there has been quite a
lot in the courts.
MR. VAN HOEK: I certainly don't think
Crawford and Davis bars all hearsay exception -
JUSTICE BREYER: What, in your view, is the
correct line and why, most importantly why?
MR. VAN HOEK: I believe this Court in
Crawford and Davis correctly established that line, in a
situation like this where it is the response of a
citizen to questions from a police officer, that you
look primarily, as footnote 1 indicates, to the content
of that statement. If that's -
JUSTICE ALITO: If it were established that
this was a dying declaration and was done in -- made in
contemplation of death, would it be barred by Crawford?
MR. VAN HOEK: Well, this Court certainly
has suggested that in Giles, that a dying declaration
might be an exception to Crawford as an exception that
existed at the time of the framing. We don't have to
deal with that question in this case because this is not
a dying declaration.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, why not?
JUSTICE ALITO: I understand -- I understand
that, but assume -- assume for the sake of argument that
it would be consistent with Crawford if it were a dying
declaration, which the Court has suggested. What does
that tell you about the understanding of the scope of
the confrontation right at the time when the Sixth
Amendment was adopted? Because a dying declaration may
very well be testimonial under -- is likely to be
testimonial under the Crawford test.
MR. VAN HOEK: Yes. And I think that the
dying -- maybe the dying declaration as being in that
situation is an indication. What's different about
dying declaration from all these other hearsay
exceptions is that, at the point the statement was made,
it's an understanding that that witness is never goint
-- will not be testifying, that there -- that there is
no potential that that witness will appear in court in
person. There's -- the police officers in any of these
situations speaking to a witness -- when a police
officer arrives at the scene they have no way of knowing
what's going to occur months later at trial.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought -- I thought the
rationale for dying declaration admissions was that they
are inherent reliable -- inherently reliable. You can
certainly question that. But I thought that that was
the rationale that the courts gave.
MR. VAN HOEK: I think that's correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: On your death bed before
you're going to meet the maker, you're not going to
lie -- I think that was the test. So it was a
reliability component, correct?
MR. VAN HOEK: That's true. And I think
that's -- that's also the -- the background of most
hearsay exceptions is that for the circumstances that
there's some degree of inherent reliability to that
statement which excuses the absence of cross-examination
if the witness is unavailable. But -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now, suppose that there is
a universe of instances that we can identify as
questions in order to alleviate and stop an emergency to
prevent a crime from becoming aggravated and continuous.
Let's suppose we can have a universe of those questions.
MR. VAN HOEK: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is -- is there an argument
that responses made for that purpose are more reliable?
Is that what -- is that what underlies the so-called
emergency exception, do you think?
MR. VAN HOEK: I don't believe so. I don't
believe that -- that a -- a statement by a witness that
is a narrative of past events -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it -- so -- well -
and, of course, Davis certainly does not rest on
reliability -- or Crawford, rather, doesn't rest on
reliability.
MR. VAN HOEK: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But isn't that really the
only way to explain the 911 exception?
MR. VAN HOEK: No, no. The 911 -- well, the
fact there's a 911 -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Isn't there a reliability
component that underlies this whether we like it or not?
MR. VAN HOEK: I don't believe so. I don't
think that the fact that someone calls 911 and makes a
report, whether they're talking about an ongoing
situation or reporting a past event, makes that somehow
inherently more reliable than if they used another
medium.
I think the distinction made in Davis is
that the beginning of the 911 call that Ms. McCottry was
making to the case was not relating past events. It was
a declaration of emergency. It was a call for immediate
assistance.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But isn't -- isn't the
reason we accept that is because it's reliable? It's an
excited utterance. It's an account of an ongoing event.
It's a contemporaneous observation. Therefore, it is
reliable.
MR. VAN HOEK: I don't -- no, I don't think
that was the basis on which this Court held it was
nontestimonial. I think this Court held it was
nontestimonial because it was not what a witness does
during a trial. It was -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's go back to this
case.
MR. VAN HOEK: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Excited utterance was -
the prosecutor thought that was his best shot, and he -
and he prevailed, except that the -- Davis intervened.
I asked Ms. Palmer, suppose we were back
there at the trial and the prosecutor knew that excited
utterance wouldn't work. Could he have raised dying
declaration? She said absolutely yes.
So my question to you is: Just assume that
we should hold the Confrontation Clause is applicable.
Shouldn't the prosecutor then have a chance to say,
well, if I realized that, I could have made a dying
declaration plea here. So it would only be fair to
allow the prosecutor to try to establish that this
testimony was a dying declaration?
MR. VAN HOEK: Well, in -- in this case,
when -- when the initial attempted admission of this
evidence, at the preliminary exam, when it met a hearsay
objection, the prosecutor at that point argued that it
was admissible under Michigan evidence rules as either
an excited utterance and/or a dying declaration.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then she did argue dying
declaration.
MR. VAN HOEK: Well, they argued dying
declaration. The judge sustained the objection and said
he had not established the foundation for either one of
those. The prosecutor at that point established a
foundation solely for excited utterance. The judge
ruled the evidence admissible and specifically said
admissible only as excited utterance.
At that point, the prosecution abandoned any
attempt, throughout the State court proceedings, to say
this was a dying declaration.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that -- that was in
the pre-Davis world. But do you think the prosecutor
had abandoned that effort had he been informed about
Davis?
MR. VAN HOEK: I don't know. I don't know
what the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Van Hoek, what is the
basis for your concession that a dying declaration is an
exception from the Confrontation Clause?
MR. VAN HOEK: I -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is an exception from
hearsay, for certain, but from the Confrontation Clause?
MR. VAN HOEK: I'm not -- if I -- if I
meant -- if you took what I said as a concession, what I
said is that this -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You conceded it. It's been
the whole basis for Justice Ginsburg's subsequent
interrogation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: My question was based on
it's an open question because we have said maybe a dying
declaration.
MR. VAN HOEK: And I -- I -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought it was an open
question only -- only where the -- the defendant has
effected the death of the person who has made the dying
declaration. I don't know of any cases that allow a
dying declaration in over a Confrontation Clause
objection.
MR. VAN HOEK: If I -- if you took my answer
to the prior question to say that I conceded that, I'm
not saying that. I'm saying when I was first asked the
question about dying declaration, I pointed out that
this Court in Giles indicated that that may be an
exception to the Confrontation Clause. And I agree -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it wasn't -- and it
wasn't in Giles. It wasn't in -
MR. VAN HOEK: No, Giles is not -
JUSTICE GINSBURG -- any way to the -- that
the -- that the purpose of the killing was to get rid of
the witness's testimony. Giles made the statement maybe
dying declaration is an -- is an exception to our
Crawford's jurisprudence.
MR. VAN HOEK: Yes. And as you said, this
Court has not reached that question directly, and -- and
there's no need to reach that question in this case
because this is not a dying declaration case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If it hasn't been reached,
if it is not an established exception to the
Confrontation Clause, there is no basis for saying,
therefore, the Confrontation Clause pertains only to
reliability. It pertains to the opportunity to
cross-examine.
And -- and reliability exceptions are what
we used to do under -- under Reynolds. If it was
reliable, we let it in.
MR. VAN HOEK: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the mere fact that it's
reliable as a dying declaration instead of reliable as
something else ought to have nothing to do with the
Confrontation Clause decision.
MR. VAN HOEK: I agree. I'm not -- I
clearly don't -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Whether we -- whether you
agree or not, we said it was an open question.
MR. VAN HOEK: Yes, yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Can there be -
MR. VAN HOEK: And it has not been decided.
JUSTICE ALITO: Can there be a situation in
which the primary purpose for a statement or for the
question that elicits the statement is to respond to an
ongoing emergency rather than to gather evidence for
subsequent use in a legal proceeding when the statement
relates to something that has occurred, perhaps just a
few seconds before, but it relates to something that has
occurred as opposed to something that is occurring at
that very moment?
MR. VAN HOEK: I think there are situations
where -- where the police are coming in and asking
questions: Is there a threat here? Is there someone
here who is -- who is threatening you? Is there someone
here who is coming to threaten you or threaten other
people? They may be able to get some background
information to put that in context, but we don't have
anything like that in this case.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I understand, but we
need to know where to draw the line. So, you concede
that the line is not between a statement about he's
hitting me with a baseball bat as opposed to he just
finished hitting me with a baseball bat and is headed
out the door? That's not where the line is drawn.
MR. VAN HOEK: I think the line would be
drawn if those were the only statements, he's hitting me
with a baseball bat versus he -- he just hit me with a
baseball bat and he just left. I think the line is
clearly drawn in Davis between -- the hitting me with a
baseball bat would be nontestimonial -
JUSTICE ALITO: No, no. I really would like
a clear answer to this. Is -- can there be an ongoing
emergency where the statement relates -- where the
statement recounts something that has occurred, not
something that is occurring?
MR. VAN HOEK: I think that in the absence
of any statement by the witness alleging that there's
any current, ongoing, imminent danger, if the witness
only gives a statement that relates to past, completed
events, then it's not a showing of -- of an ongoing
emergency.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So what do you do -
what do you do with the statement the guy in the gas
station shot me? Is that purely past, or is that an
ongoing emergency?
MR. VAN HOEK: That statement standing
alone -- I would say that that's past, purely past.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even though the guy
in the gas station is still there with a gun, the police
are within range?
MR. VAN HOEK: Are we referring to a
specific person?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. I mean, that
strikes me as something that happened in the past, he
shot me, but at the same time demonstrates an ongoing
emergency because he's right there and he might shoot
you. I'm suggesting the line you propose to
Justice Alito doesn't work.
MR. VAN HOEK: Well, I -- I would -- I
don't -- I don't think that -- that the -- the -- there
has been discussion of verbs tense and past tense, and I
don't think that is the -- is the determining factor.
It's certainly important. It's certainly a relevant
consideration in -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The guy in the gas station
is present. It's not past. He's making an assertion
the guy who is now in the gas station shot me. The
"shot me" is past, but he's asserting that the person is
now in the gas station. That is a statement of a
present fact.
MR. VAN HOEK: Yes. And I think if you look
at all of the circumstances together, it's a -- it's -
and going to the primary purpose is, is the witness
declaring some type of emergency, some sort of imminent
harm and requesting the police to render assistance to
alleviate that, to protect him -- him or her.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose they get a
9-1-1 call. There's -- a man has just been shot on the
corner of Fifth and Main. They go to Fifth and Main;
they find a man there; he's shot; he's bleeding
profusely; he's in shock; and they know nothing more
about what's happened. And they say, well, what
happened? Well, he shot me. Who shot you? It's John
Jones.
Now what about that?
MR. VAN HOEK: I would say that's our case,
and I would say that was testimonial.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the police under those
circumstances don't know whether John Jones is going on
a shooting spree; this is just the first of numerous
victims. Maybe it's a gang fight. He's shot one member
of an opposing gang; now he's going to go shoot another
member of an opposing gang.
How can they -- how can you answer that
question, what's the primary purpose there? I just
don't understand it.
MR. VAN HOEK: Well, I would think -- in
that situation, nothing about the Davis rule, nothing
about the Confrontation Clause precludes the police from
taking that information and asking those further
questions -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you -- you were the
one that drew the line between a past event and an
ongoing event. Suppose the sniper says, I've shot you
now, and I'm going to shoot three other students,
good-bye. That's a past event.
MR. VAN HOEK: But if the statement is made
to the police that a sniper has said he's -- he is on
the verge of shooting other people because he just shot
someone, I would say that's certainly a declaration of
an emergency and certainly would be nontestimonial under
the -- under the test of Davis.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any -- I'll try
this -- I think you're just -- you don't like my -
where I'm coming from, but -- and so you might not have
an answer to this.
But -- but in my mind, I see a line, and
that line is dividing what I think of as the
Confrontation Clause, Sir Walter Raleigh situation,
which I have in my mind as people going into a room and
saying, now write out your testimony, and they write it
out in the form of an affidavit, or they send in a
letter, and they say "bye," and then they walk next door
to the trial and introduce it. I mean, that's Walter
Raleigh, in my mind.
And then, on the other side of the line, is
an -- evidentiary rules that are basically in State
cases run by the State. And they sometimes let hearsay
in, and they sometimes don't, and they make reliability,
et cetera, judgments in developing their -- their
decision as to how hearsay exceptions will work. Okay?
Now, why don't I like emergency to draw
that? The reason I don't like the word "emergency" is I
think police do lots of things other than handle
emergency and develop testimony.
There's a range of things that you would
describe as investigating the circumstance. There's no
danger. There have been a string of robberies. They go
around and ask the grocery store people and everything
what happened. Now, I don't know why we should keep out
evidence that, say, is given in that situation by a
confederate. It turns out he was the assistant -- why?
And if I don't like that, I don't like the
emergency rule as doing the -- as doing the work there,
and I'm looking for something else.
Now, you have my whole train of thought. If
you want to say, Judge, there is nothing but the
emergency rule, you are perfectly free to say it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do it.
(Laughter.)
MR. VAN HOEK: I -- there is nothing -
there is nothing but the emergency rule. I think that
when -- when the police are investigating a reported
crime and getting statements from witnesses, whether the
victim or another witness -
JUSTICE BREYER: They're not. They're just
asking -- all right. Yes. Go ahead.
MR. VAN HOEK: Well, they're investigating.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. They're
investigating.
MR. VAN HOEK: They're seeking information
in which they will do their job, which is to go try to
arrest someone and see what the situation is. And
they're getting narratives of past events from
witnesses, and they're acting on that. And nothing
about this rule prevents them from doing that.
But the admissibility -- for them to be able
to come into court, and they alone to come into court,
and say this is what this witness told me and this is
what this witness told me and this is what this witness
told me -- and by the way, defense counsel, those
witnesses aren't going to be here today, and you're not
going to be able to ask them what they meant by that or
whether they were telling the truth.
No. Mr. Bryant at this trial was never able
to question Mr. Covington.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, yes, but in the past
that situation you are describing arose only where there
was a hearsay exception. I would imagine most likely it
would be the case of a confederate, someone who was part
of the conspiracy. So if I think if that's going to be
the case, that probably will be admissible where this
has bite.
MR. VAN HOEK: Well -
JUSTICE BREYER: And there be some others,
excited utterances, maybe another. Dying declarations
are probably few and far between. Baptismal
certificates -
MR. VAN HOEK: But the line this Court drew
in Crawford and Davis -
JUSTICE BREYER: I know they did. And what
I'm saying is I'm finding that -- it seems to me that
that line, if taken literally, would keep out exceptions
to hearsay testimony, which have been well established
in the United States for 200 years. Baptismal
certificates, statements of birth.
MR. VAN HOEK: I don't believe that -
JUSTICE BREYER: Confederates is the one I
come back to.
MR. VAN HOEK: Those examples you just gave
-- baptism -- are not statements made during police
questioning. If we're talking about a -
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, okay. I forgot -
MR. VAN HOEK: The difference that made in
Davis is that the -- the definition of testimonial is
not across the board -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess it depends on what
you mean by "in the past," as Justice Breyer put it.
Undoubtedly, under the regime of United
States v. Reynolds, which was what, 25 years old -
when -
MR. VAN HOEK: Roberts.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Roberts. I'm sorry.
MR. VAN HOEK: Roberts, which -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No relation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Roberts. I'm sorry.
Roberts, which -- Reynolds was the Mormon case -- which
was about 25 years old or so when Crawford was decided,
yes, hearsay was your protection, and that was it. But
if by what you mean is in the past, Crawford examined
the past, and its conclusion as to what the past said is
quite different from what Justice Breyer now says,
although he joined Crawford.
MR. VAN HOEK: Yes. I -- and as you said,
in Crawford this Court looked at that and thought that
the protections of the hearsay rule, and the focus under
the Roberts standard of whether a statement fell within
a firmly established hearsay rule, was not sufficient
under the Constitution, under the Confrontation Clause,
to -- to alleviate the fact that there -- there's no
cross-examination.
JUSTICE BREYER: Many -- I mean, like many
cases there is language that takes -- that can take us
far afield from the subject matter before us. And I
will admit that I did not foresee the scope of Crawford.
So I'm really asking about that scope and, in
particular, whether, looking to the past or to reason or
to whatever you want, there is a good reason for keeping
out the testimony of, say, a co-confederate, a
co-conspirator, where it was elicited, not with intent
to introduce it into the courtroom, but it was elicited
in the course of an ordinary investigation of a crime.
MR. VAN HOEK: Well, I'd have to go back to
my answer that the Confrontation Clause is the primary
law of the country, not State hearsay evidentiary rules.
Many of the examples -- the co-conspirator -- the
co-conspirator exception is not going to be applicable
in many cases because those statements aren't made to
police officers; they're made between co-conspirators in
the course of a conspiracy. That's the foundational
requirement.
It's not going to eliminate hearsay rules.
Statements made to private citizens, statements made in
a lot of different circumstances are still going to be
evaluated solely under hearsay rules because they're not
going to be defined as testimonial, because they're not
the product of police -- police questioning.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I'm still trying to
understand your conception of the scope of the ongoing
emergency doctrine. Would it be fair to say that your
idea is that the police have to have specific evidence
that there is an immediate threat of physical violence
that they want -- they need to respond to, in order for
the ongoing emergency doctrine to apply?
MR. VAN HOEK: Yes. Yes. They have to -
JUSTICE ALITO: And in a case of doubt, they
can't do it. So if they don't know whether there is an
immediate threat or not an immediate threat, then that
doesn't fall within that exception. That's your idea?
MR. VAN HOEK: My position is that where the
witness has not provided any information to the police
indicating that there's an immediate threat, either
volunteered to the police or in response to questions
from the police saying is there a threat? Where -- in
this case, no questions were asked, where is Rick?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, they can always do
it. You -- you don't say they can't do it.
MR. VAN HOEK: No, not at all.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They can always ask the
questions. The only issue here is not whether they can
ask the questions, but whether, after they ask them, the
answers can be introduced at trial.
MR. VAN HOEK: Yes, and if the answers -- no
matter what questions they asked, if the answers all are
a narrative of past events, then that qualifies as
testimonial because it is the -- the equivalent -
JUSTICE ALITO: I thought you just said that
wasn't the test, past versus present. Didn't you say
that about 10 minutes ago -- it's not the difference
between something that's taking place and something that
has taken place?
MR. VAN HOEK: No. No. I think my answer
was that -- that if the witness is declaring an
emergency and telling the police that there is a -
JUSTICE ALITO: The witness has to say there
is an emergency?
MR. VAN HOEK: Not in those words but -- but
in comparison to what the witness in Davis said, is that
he's beating me up.
JUSTICE ALITO: There's a shooting -
there's a report of shooting at a school, and the police
go and they find two students lying on the ground. One
is dead, and the other is severely wounded. And they
ask the one who is wounded: Who did it? It's John
Jones.
Now, does that -- is that an ongoing
emergency.
MR. VAN HOEK: No.
JUSTICE ALITO: No?
MR. VAN HOEK: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can he ask the witness
-
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why is that not an
ongoing emergency? What would be an ongoing emergency?
MR. VAN HOEK: Well, it would be -- it would
be -- a statement from the -- from the witness at that
point of the police officer asking him: Is John Jones
here? Is he threatening you? Do you know where he is
right now? Do you know what he is intending to do? And
the answers are: Yes, he has a gun. He's right over
there. He's going to shoot someone else. He said he
was going to shoot someone else.
That's different.
JUSTICE ALITO: You have to have very
specific information?
MR. VAN HOEK: Because the -- the
Petitioner's position here is that the situation itself,
standing alone -
JUSTICE ALITO: What if there are three
students who have been shot, four students who have been
shot, but nobody says, well, I think he's still in the
building, he may have an interest in shooting some more
students?
MR. VAN HOEK: Well, certainly if the police
come on the scene and there's multiple students who have
been shot, you would think that if their primary
purpose -- if the primary purpose, if you take that as a
test, that their primary purpose of questioning the
witness is to determine whether there's an emergency,
they're going to ask those questions.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would they ask his name?
God, it's really important for us to know, four students
on the ground. What's the name of the guy that did
this?
That's not the emergency.
MR. VAN HOEK: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They'd say: Where is he?
JUSTICE ALITO: Of course that -- of course
that's the emergency because how are they going to find
the person that they -- that they're looking for if they
don't know who it is? What if he's thrown away his gun?
Of course, if they come upon him and he has his gun in
his hand, then it's not a question. Bu what if he has
disposed of it? They have to know who to -- who to go
for.
MR. VAN HOEK: And they can ask all of those
questions. As Justice Scalia said, there's nothing in
the -- in this Court's opinion in Davis or nothing in my
position that prevents the police -
JUSTICE ALITO: But I still -- I'm totally
puzzled now as to what you -- when you think there's an
ongoing emergency and when there isn't.
MR. VAN HOEK: I think there's an ongoing
emergency -- that a statement relates -- would become
nontestimonial relating to an ongoing emergency when
there's some indication from the statement made by the
witness that such -- that there's some immediacy.
There's some request for assistance -
JUSTICE ALITO: It has to be made by the -
by the declarant? It can't be inferred from the
circumstances?
MR. VAN HOEK: No, I don't think just from
the circumstances, because if you -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, sure it can. If
he says the principal did it. It's -- it's 10 o'clock
in the morning; you assume the principal is at the
school; and he says the principal did it. You can infer
from the circumstances that he's referring to an ongoing
emergency.
MR. VAN HOEK: I don't -- I don't agree. I
don't agree because if that's the case, any report -- as
Justice Scalia I think said previously, any report of a
past crime certainly raises the potential that a
subsequent crime will occur. If that's the case, then
-
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's quite
different than saying, you know, this happened to some
guy driving by, or something like that. If he says the
principal did it, it's at 10 o'clock, it's in the
school -- that suggests to me more, not that the dying
student or the wounded student wanted to make sure that
the principal was convicted, but that there's an
emergency, something is happening.
MR. VAN HOEK: Well, again, I think that if
all it is that the principal shot someone before, that
basically is I think the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You don't think there's
a danger implicated by coming onto the lawn of a school
and a student is there and says the principal shot me
inside? You don't think that that suggests an ongoing
emergency, that the principal is still inside with a
gun?
MR. VAN HOEK: Well, if they ask those
questions and the principal is still inside and there is
an indication that the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, no, no. You
don't want them to have to go through, you know, a whole
list of questions while the student's there dying and
the principal is inside the building shooting people?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Did he shoot you because
he had a grudge against you, or is he just shooting -
MR. VAN HOEK: No -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- blindly, and he says
he shot me?
MR. VAN HOEK: No. I'm not taking the
position that they have to go through a whole list of
questions before they can do anything. If you go in
that a situation and a student says the principal shot
someone, certainly nothing about the Davis rule stops
them from immediately running into the school and
determining if there's a situation there. But -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Palmer, you have 2 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LORI B. PALMER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. PALMER: I'd just like to reiterate that
the underlying principle, as this Court has said
repeatedly in Crawford and in Davis, is formality, and
that's what the purpose of any inquiry should be in
looking at -- at the scene, whether there's an emergency
or not, or declarant's view or not. It all comes down
to formality akin to a magisterial examination. And I
would also -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's go to formality.
It can't be that you arrive at a scene of a crime and
everything a victim tells you is admissible. There has
to be some emergency. That's what we've said.
MS. PALMER: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Correct? So the issue
here is how do you define that dividing line between
emergency and non, when the police officers are just
asking questions that by their nature are always going
to be testimonial, because they are going to use or try
to use whatever is said later? So, in discerning the
primary purpose, I think your adversary is saying you
can't go by what the police officers are asking because
they are going to be asking dual motive always. You
have to look to what the declarant tells you. And is he
or she telling you something that suggests an emergency?
MS. PALMER: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's really the
difference between the two of you, I think.
MS. PALMER: Well, even if -- even if you
take that view, that it's the declarant's purpose,
objectively viewed, that controls, I think here it's
difficult to see how Covington's purpose could have been
to provide evidence any more than the 9-1-1 call in
Davis. I think he was in shock from a bleeding wound.
He didn't call the police. They came to him. You know,
this wasn't even a 9-1-1 call where he sought them.
They came to him. It's not clear who called, but it was
not him.
So even taking it from his point of view,
it's -- it's difficult to see here how the purpose would
have been anything other than, as he said, when is EMS
coming to help me.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand what
you're saying. You mean he has to intend to provide
evidence that he knows will be used at trial? I don't
think that's the test.
MS. PALMER: I don't agree with that, and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: He's intending to accuse
somebody.
MS. PALMER: Well, I think here he's
intending to seek help because he has been mortally
wounded.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
ahead 50:24 33:19 assailant 13:18 basic 34:11
Alito 7:21 36:24 applicable 41:2 assertion 47:8 60:13
45:11,23 46:25 application 16:19 15:15,21 16:9 43:25
57:1,5,16,21 58:15 19:12,15,17 27:20 4:15 18:3,9 beating 56:16
alleging 46:4 apprehend 21:25 47:17 59:10 began 24:22
allow 10:25 34:23 32:2,3 assume 37:10,10 2:11,14 3:7 20:12
18:8,14,19 20:12 argument 1:12 2:2,5 attempting 7:6,10 52:14
41:12,21 amok 13:23 2:9,12 3:3,6 20:11 attention 24:7 benefit 20:2
51:24 62:3 Amy 28:14 26:3 28:2,6 31:12 Attorney 1:15 best 40:20
and/or 41:13 arose 51:20 available 15:6 birth 52:13
answer 11:2 19:4 arrested 7:6 Blackstone 36:6
33:4,6 43:5 Arresting 32:4 B bleeding 3:25 5:25
48:11 49:8 arrive 15:12 62:2 B 1:15 2:3,13 3:6 8:2,19,20 13:17
30:12
56:9 arrived 29:13 61:16 15:13 47:22 62:25
15:2 31:3 articulated 26:5 52:16 54:10 31:20
56:1 artificial 8:9 background 38:16 board 52:23
asked 3:22 13:9 45:8 Breyer 18:13,22
49:14
26:16,20 29:3 baptism 52:18 32:16,22 33:1,5,24
16:17 comes 4:12 7:14 35:23 53:21 36:13 38:9
63:1,2 31:1,10,14 33:7 completed 46:6 30:19 45:9 co-conspiracy 34:17
20:4 22:4 48:6 54:21 59:13 43:6 corner 47:21 27:10,22 28:14
23:17,20 24:1 59:15,20 conception 55:1 correct 11:19 12:21 32:21 33:6,14
25:14 citizen 36:21 concession 42:9,15 15:5 19:16 25:5 34:22 35:6,10,12
28:17 30:4 citizens 54:20 concluded 31:20 36:17 38:10,14 35:17 36:15,19
36:2 37:6 Clause 10:11,24 conclusion 53:13 62:6 37:1,4,11,17 39:11
41:8 43:21 12:4 27:21 30:24 conduct 17:17 correctly 36:19 52:7 53:10,12,15
45:10 48:3 32:9 33:11 41:2 confederate 34:14 counsel 20:9 31:10 53:17 54:2 61:20
53:9 55:8 42:10,13 43:3,10 50:9 51:22 32:21 51:13 61:14 Crawford's 28:13
59:23 60:1 43:25 44:1,11 confederates 35:6 63:20 43:18
48:16 49:11 53:21 52:15 country 33:13 54:12 crime 16:25 17:17
43:2 49:20 clear 29:7 45:24 10:24 12:4 27:21 35:14 39:10 54:9 21:23 22:7 23:20
54:15 63:3 30:24 32:9 33:11 54:17 58:15,15,19 24:12 25:16 26:1
32:10 54:11 27:19,20,21 28:3,6 17:12,14
37:2 38:8 collecting 21:6,7,10 consideration 47:6 31:15 33:13 34:20 22:10
47:5,5 49:2 21:16 consistent 24:2 34:22 35:10,25 criteria 15:8
58:1 59:25 college 13:25 37:11 36:18 37:2,12,25 cross-examination
38:19 declarants 11:10 died 9:25 41:16,25 42:9,21 entire 9:9
declarant's 11:21 difference 22:9,13 43:1,3,8,17,22 equivalent 33:18
declaration 18:25 different 5:6 7:15 ESQ 1:15,17,21 2:3
37:12,15,19,21 53:14 54:21 57:15 E 2:1 3:1,1 essence 15:25
difficult 62:23 63:6 effected 43:1 establish 11:14 41:6
46:5 50:5 declaring 47:16 discover 23:8 41:12,18 55:14 establishing 6:24
56:10 discussion 47:3 elicited 54:7,8 et 49:22
5:17 6:8,9,22 Defender 1:21 dispositive 24:19 eliminate 54:19 15:10
11:8 15:16 defense 36:2 51:13 dissented 32:22 emergencies 17:12 evaluated 34:25
20:3,17 define 62:7 distance 9:13 17:12 54:22
24:2,13,18 defined 54:23 distinction 24:18 emergency 4:12,14 evasion 23:18
27:19 28:2,17 definition 20:20 27:16,17 40:1 4:24 5:11 6:5 7:18 event 7:10 21:19
31:8 33:15 52:22 distinguish 21:5,8 8:4,8,16,17,22 9:1 39:23 40:8 48:20
35:10 36:15 degree 18:15 19:8 dividing 49:10 62:7 9:3 10:14 11:13 48:21,23
39:10 40:1 38:18 doctrine 55:2,6 13:2,6,9,20 15:10 events 5:8 6:24
42:5 45:21 delineated 6:22 doing 28:11 50:11 16:7,9,24 17:3 11:14 13:13 31:19
49:4 52:7,22 delve 8:11 50:11 51:8 21:1 24:7,9,15 39:8 40:3 46:7
58:25 61:11 demonstrates 46:22 door 45:16 49:15 26:8 27:5,7 38:23 51:6 56:2
62:25 Department 1:18 doubt 55:8 39:5 40:4 44:22 evidence 10:2,17
26:24 describing 51:20 drive 25:9 57:6,6 58:6,12,16 36:2,11 41:10,12
43:1 despite 4:9 35:3 drove 9:12 62:16 evidentiary 49:19
44:18 53:10 13:21 14:16 17:5 drunk 13:24 EMS 8:18 29:13 exam 41:10
determined 12:8 duties 14:23 enable 20:25 26:7 61:24
11:22 12:24 61:13 12:17 18:24 20:5 enforcement 24:8 examine 14:6 30:25
24:8 25:7 Detroit 1:16,21 36:25 37:3,7,11,15 28:9 examined 53:12
30:15 59:12 develop 50:2 37:19,19,21 38:6 engage 30:7 examining 29:22
developing 49:22 40:24 41:4,7,13,14 English 35:23 example 31:6
fear 6:1 4:22,23 5:1 6:21 gives 46:6 happen 3:22 15:15
19:2,7 32:8 Federal 19:13,13,14 18:16 19:8 34:1,3 glimpse 12:9 34:2
36:11,15 19:18,22 32:7,16 61:20,24 62:1 go 7:17 21:12 35:25 happened 3:21 5:4,7
39:5,15 32:17,18 35:3 forth 16:17 36:5 40:16 47:21 5:12,23 10:22
43:10,17 fell 53:19 found 3:23 48:9 50:5,24 51:4 12:23 13:9,12 15:1
51:21 54:14 felon 13:20 21:8 foundation 41:18,20 54:10 56:19 58:21 15:14 26:21 46:21
23:1 foundational 54:17 60:24 61:8,9 62:1 47:24,25 50:7 60:4
35:4 37:22 Fifth 47:21,21 framing 37:5 goal 34:9 15:1 60:10
44:4 49:23 fight 48:8 free 50:15 God 58:9 happens 12:6 14:25
figure 7:5 friend 30:13 goes 10:13 15:25 harm 15:16 22:16
20:3 40:8 final 12:2 34:18 18:4 19:6 23:19,24 headed 45:15
41:13,20 find 5:7 7:19 15:13 fundamental 33:12 24:8,10,24 32:11 hear 3:3 31:25 33:4
52:3 15:14 16:24 23:11 33:12 38:4,12,12 47:15 33:5
39:17,21 footnote 6:13 11:20 Giles 37:3 43:9,12 57:12 58:18,19 hitting 45:14,15,18
47:12 53:22 12:1,2 30:21 31:2 43:13,16 60:19 45:21
Forget 4:18 26:9,16 28:18 29:6 H 34:21 35:8,13,20
35:18 52:4 formal 4:1 16:15 43:11,14 44:14 33:15 39:16,20 40:11,18
28:16 Ginsburg's 42:18 Hammon's 28:14 41:8,16 42:6,8,11
44:7,12,16 indicator 4:25 interview 28:14,15 16:5,21 17:8,15,24 Kennedy 13:22 14:3
45:3,17 46:3 indicators 6:21 30:5 35:25 18:1,13,22 19:9,15 14:21 15:7 24:21
47:1,13 individual 33:25 introduce 10:1 19:17,21 20:1,9,14 25:2,3 27:1,4
50:18 infer 59:19 49:16 54:8 21:5,15,20 22:2,6 31:25 32:3,24 33:3
51:3 52:1,6 inferred 59:12 introduced 15:24 22:10,12,19,24 38:5,11,21 39:2,9
53:4,6 inflicting 22:15 32:11 55:24 23:3,4,10,13,17 39:14,18 40:6
54:10 55:7 informal 9:20 investigate 3:16 23:22 24:1,5,12,21 48:19
56:9 information 8:5 26:1 investigating 50:4 25:2,3,11,13 26:9 key 27:11
57:2,7,18 26:6 27:25 28:4,9 50:20,25 51:2 26:16 27:1,4 28:18 killing 43:15
59:5,14 31:19,21 45:9 investigation 34:13 29:6 30:8,20 31:1 kind 12:17 13:16
60:11,20 48:17 51:3 55:13 34:13,16 54:9 31:10,14,25 32:3,5 24:10 27:24 28:11
57:17 involves 32:5 32:16,20,22,24 kinds 17:10 27:2
inside 60:17,18,21 56:21 57:9 45:23 46:9,15,20 21:11 24:21,23
55:4,10,10,14 intending 57:11 Jones 48:1,6 56:22 53:5,7,8,14,24 52:8 55:9 57:10,11
29:14 61:12 intent 8:12 16:2 judge 41:17,20 56:4,12,17 57:1,3 63:1
58:9 interpreted 27:22 jump 33:8 60:23 61:2,5,14 Kruger 1:17 2:6
interrogator's 12:3 9:22,25 10:6,12 keep 32:13 34:19
59:8 60:22 intervened 40:21 14:3,4,21 15:7,18 keeps 19:1 32:6 lack 3:14 4:10
3:6 61:16 member 48:8,10 neither 25:6 officers 3:13,16,22
lots 50:1 memory 36:1 neutralized 29:20 29:8,12 30:4,9,10
32:7 33:12 lurking 28:21 met 41:10 non 62:8 54:16 62:8,13
54:12 lying 3:24 8:2 14:5 Michigan 1:3,16,22 nontestimonial 7:19
20:11 16:15 61:24 minute 6:11 note 28:2 29:12 ongoing 4:11,14,24
40:16 62:1 majority 23:23 mitigate 27:7 numerous 48:7 13:20 15:10 16:6
10:15 13:17,23 mortally 63:17 43:4 57:6,6 59:4,5,7,20
48:20 49:9 15:13 23:8 24:23 motive 27:13 62:14 objective 5:18,18 60:17
52:6,10 26:19 47:20,22 multiple 21:18 22:16 20:24 On-the-scene 3:12
managed 25:9 58:2 objectively 11:12 open 34:9 42:21,24
mean 4:5 5:9,15,22 narratives 51:6 occur 38:4 60:1 45:14
28:18 29:9 32:16 33:24,25 62:9 46:1 20:11 31:12
47:13 34:3 46:20 49:16 near 9:11 occurring 24:15 order 3:17 14:11
52:25 53:12,24 nearby 17:19 45:1 46:2 21:7,22 27:6 38:23
36:5,5 50:12 meant 19:24 42:15 necessary 26:7 offend 10:11 ought 44:10
58:17 61:22 51:15 need 3:16 4:13 5:16 offender 25:18 overrule 6:10
31:23 38:1 43:1 18:3,6 21:10 proceeded 26:23 62:21,23 63:6
47:10 58:17 posed 29:21 29:14 purposes 5:16 16:10
4:11,21 28:2 61:17 possibly 18:14 31:8 puzzled 59:3
6:7,17,21 Petitioner's 57:19 potential 3:18 25:25 propose 46:24 p.m 63:22
8:10,18 9:2,6 phone 24:13 28:1,10 37:25 prosecuting 1:15
10:4,8 phony 23:18 59:25 31:23 Q
11:4,19,24 physical 55:4 potentially 31:23 prosecution 21:2,6 qualifies 35:9 56:2
13:4,11,15 pick 26:13 precisely 30:3 34:8 21:11,16,21 28:1 qualify 17:10 21:23
15:5,9 pigeonhole 16:6 precludes 48:16 41:23 21:24
17:1,11,21 place 56:7,8 preliminary 17:4,21 prosecutor 10:1,15 quantity 4:8
18:10,20 plausibly 17:18 41:10 20:3 40:20,23 41:3 question 3:20 7:1
20:6 play 4:12 present 8:12 22:3 41:6,11,19 42:3 11:16 12:3 15:2
61:15,16,18 plea 41:5 33:23 36:1 47:8,12 prosecutorial 28:5 16:16 26:20 29:5,7
63:13 please 3:9 20:15 56:5 protect 47:18 36:3 37:6 38:8
31:15 prevailed 40:21 protecting 28:22 41:1 42:20,21,25
41:11,19,23 57:9 prevents 51:8 59:1 protections 53:18 44:21 48:12 51:18
pointed 43:8 pre-Davis 42:3 proven 22:5 questioner 6:20
45:8 49:1,12 14:9,24 15:12 7:22 8:3 11:13 providing 27:25 54:24 58:5
61:1 16:23 17:16 20:18 16:10 18:11 20:18 28:8 31:19 questions 3:13,21
24:5 25:23 33:22 36:21 38:1,2 60:18,21 61:1,10 6:25 7:23 8:3,5,7 36:21 38:23,25
9:6,11,16,16 55:3,13,15,16 prior 34:7 43:6 23:18 24:4 26:5 61:9 62:9
14:5,11 16:8 56:11,18 57:9 58:1 private 54:20 30:14,15,18 31:9 quite 24:6,8 28:7
21:22 22:1 59:1 62:8,13 63:1 probably 51:24 52:4 39:3 43:15 44:20 29:7 31:8 36:12
23:15 25:15 policeman 34:14 problem 36:7 47:15 48:12 58:4,4 53:14 60:3
27:25 28:3 policemen 14:22 proceed 29:19 30:5 58:5 61:21 62:12
34:24 38:14,18 57:12 62:5 12:23,24 22:20 serious 23:24
reliable 27:9,15 17:22 18:2,3,9 57:23 59:17,19 severely 56:20
38:6,9 remaining 61:15 11:23,25 12:22 8:15,19 9:5,7,10 shoot 13:23 46:23
45:23 54:3 reporting 39:23 rule 10:25 13:16 32:20 35:11 42:1,8 22:14 29:14 48:7
62:18 request 59:10 16:22 18:18 19:18 42:12,17,24 43:23 49:1 56:17,18
34:11 35:21 requirement 54:18 23:24 25:22 32:8 52:24 53:5,8 55:18 short 22:16
49:25 54:4,5 requires 12:4 30:24 35:4 48:15 50:11 55:21 58:8,14,24 shot 3:23 5:25 7:24
responded 7:23 32:7 41:12 49:19 26:24 30:5 38:3 47:22,25,25 48:8
20:22 S 55:1 shows 18:10
26:19 31:3 S 2:1 3:1 se 32:11 side 49:18
55:15 safeguard 22:25 second 18:17 35:18 sidewalk 13:17
saying 5:5 8:3 10:14 seek 63:17 49:11
9:20 12:12 19:12 32:7 35:3 submitted 63:21,23 tell 5:2 7:14 8:13 21:17,24 22:8,12
16:9,24 23:7 41:24 49:19,20 subsequent 42:18 37:13 22:23 23:2,6,21,25
24:7 28:19 54:12 44:23 60:1 telling 51:16 56:11 24:1,6,19 25:7,21
34:1,4 35:1 statement 8:21 substantive 36:2 62:16 26:4,15 27:18 28:7
36:20 37:20 15:24 16:1 27:9 suddenly 36:10 tells 62:3,15 29:6,8,22 30:2,16
44:19 48:15 30:24 31:16 33:16 sufficient 35:5 53:20 tense 47:3,3 31:8 32:20,24 33:1
50:8 51:5,20 33:17,20 35:9 sufficiently 4:1 term 20:20 33:2,6,8 34:9,21
61:10,13 36:23 37:22 38:19 suggest 16:2 test 4:12,23 5:19 36:14 37:18 38:10
16:7 33:14 44:21,23 45:13,25 37:12 21:25 30:16 34:23 40:1,11,13 42:3
34:6 38:2 46:1,4,6,10,13 suggesting 6:2 8:22 35:10 37:17 38:13 45:3,17,20 46:3
47:11 48:24 53:19 46:24 49:4 56:5 58:5 47:2,4,13 48:14
22:4,14 20:12 52:12 53:2 Supreme 1:1,12 12:25 13:14 20:20 34:4 38:5,5,8
stating 11:20 sure 14:22 17:18 20:22 23:19 26:11 40:20 42:24 50:13
46:11,16 47:7,9,11 survived 9:23,23 52:22 54:23 56:3 threat 3:18 6:1,2
6:11 7:3 stop 38:23 sustained 41:17 26:18 27:23 29:7 threaten 23:16 45:7
16:5 17:8 stops 61:11 Sylvia 28:13 31:5 33:18 41:7 45:7
60:14 61:2,5 store 50:6 system 22:2 43:16 49:13 50:2 threatening 13:23
Strike 18:1 52:11 54:6 45:6 57:10
57:17 students 48:22 28:22 29:5,25 thing 16:15 20:7 22:17 25:17
subjective 8:11 9:18 18:25 22:13 39:22 13:16,20 14:8 totally 8:9 59:2
20:2 25:20 31:18 56:5 weapon 22:15
29:6 32:12 Undoubtedly 53:1 vicinity 16:23 went 20:3 Z
34:2 36:7 United 1:1,12,19 2:7 victim 4:3 5:22 6:6 weren't 21:10 27:2 zeroed 28:19
40:15,23 20:12 52:12 53:1 7:23 15:17 17:16 We'll 3:3
51:17 55:24 universe 31:4 38:22 18:7 19:5,10 22:20 we're 6:9 15:19 0
38:25 25:15 28:20 29:1,3 16:16 17:1 18:3,25 09-150 1:5 3:4
30:21 31:2 36:22
56:6 59:17 60:6
35:5 utterance 3:11,15 62:21 63:5 wiped 35:6,8 11:05 1:13 3:2
63:22
29:10
49:5 51:4 41:20,22 violence 22:14 55:4 38:2,20 39:7 40:14 2
utterances 52:3 violent 17:11,17 46:4,5 47:15 50:22 2 61:15
22:24 V 22:7,10 23:20 56:10,12,15 57:3,8 200 36:12 52:12
54:25 v 1:5 3:4 20:17 53:2 25:16,23 29:1,3 58:6 59:9 2010 1:9
56:19 62:19 35:8,13,20 36:14 word 14:25 49:25 3:30 28:23
43:5,13 walk 49:15 worried 14:4,18 400 36:12
48:3,14,24 50:18 32:13 34:11 50:14 wounded 3:23 15:13
60:8
20:16 32:14 58:1,13,23 59:5,14 20:17
37:9,9 45:11 59:22 60:11,20 wasn't 14:12 43:11
39:15,16,17,21
55:1 63:9 61:4,7 43:12,12 56:5 63:2 x 1:2,7
