IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
BILLY JOE MAGWOOD, :
Petitioner : No. 09-158
v. :
TONY PATTERSON, WARDEN, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 24, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:08 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ., Stanford, California; on behalf
of Petitioner.
COREY L. MAZE, ESQ., Solicitor General, Montgomery,
Alabama; on behalf of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
COREY L. MAZE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:08 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 09-158, Magwood v. Patterson.
Mr. Fisher.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FISHER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
A habeas petition challenging a new State
court judgment for the first time cannot be a second or
successive petition. AEDPA, of course, is a highly
complex statutory system that has many interdependent
parts. The pivotal language of this case, section 2244,
is reproduced at page 2 of the blue brief, of
Petitioner's brief.
What that section does is it restricts
claims that can be brought in, quote, "a second or
successive habeas corpus application" under section
2254. So this text establishes a two-step framework.
First, the court needs to decide whether it's dealing
with a second or successive petition. And second, if it
is and only if it is, then the Court applies the
modified res judicata principles set forth in that
section.
Now, this case involves only the first of
those two steps. And a petition, as here, that
challenges a new death sentence cannot be a second or
successive petition for the very simple reason that it
challenges a State court judgment that has no -- never
been covered in a habeas petition before.
JUSTICE ALITO: 2244 doesn't make any
reference to judgment, 2244(b). And now you bring in
the concept of a judgment by looking at another
provision. But if "second or successive application"
means a second or successive application with respect to
a particular judgment, then I don't see why the
important and seemingly common sense point that you make
in footnote 8 of your brief can be correct; namely, that
when a prisoner such as Petitioner obtains habeas relief
from his sentence but not his conviction, any habeas
petition after his resentencing that challenged his
conviction would be successive.
You suggest that there are two judgments;
there is a judgment of sentence and there is a judgment
of conviction. But for habeas purposes, the only thing
that is relevant is the judgment pursuant to which the
Petitioner is held in custody. And that is the
judgment -- that is the sentence.
So I -- I -- if your argument is correct
that you look to whether there's a second or successive
application as to a judgment, then the point you make in
footnote 8 just cannot be true. So that if Petitioner
gets sentencing relief, gets resentenced, in the second
petition the Petitioner can challenge the conviction.
MR. FISHER: But, Justice Alito, let me make
clear how we get to incorporating judgment and then
answer your question. The way that you incorporate the
word "judgment" is because, again, the language I just
quoted says "an application under section 2244." And
section 2244 defines -- and this is at the bottom of the
page, of page 2 -
JUSTICE ALITO: I understand that.
MR. FISHER: -- defines it as "seeking
relief from a State court judgment."
Now, you are right that -- that -- that if
somebody receives relief only as to their sentence and
gets a new death sentence, as in this case, that the
judgment he is challenging is new only as to the
sentence.
Now, there -- the word "judgment" appears in
other places in the U.S. Code. There is two other
places I am aware of where this Court had to construe
the word "judgment." One of them is when this -- is
with respect to this Court's jurisdiction over final
State court judgments. And in that realm -- this is in
Brady v. Maryland in footnote 1 it's laid out. In that
realm, this Court treats the judgment as having two
parts that can be final -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if a -- if someone has
a -- a judgment of conviction, but is no longer in
custody, that -- that person cannot bring habeas
petition, isn't that right?
MR. FISHER: That's right.
JUSTICE ALITO: So it -- it is the judgment
pursuant to which the person then is held in custody to
which the habeas petition goes.
MR. FISHER: That's right. And in Burton
this Court made it very clear that the judgment that
he's being held in custody as to is the new judgment
that he is challenging.
Now, what I'm saying is in the Brady context
this Court has treated judgment as having two parts that
can be final as to one and not as to the other. In
other contexts in Burton, for purposes of seeking an
appeal or seeking habeas relief, it is treated as
inseparable.
And the common thread between those two
circumstances has been what minimizes Federal intrusion
on State affairs? And so in this context that's a very
easy answer, because what this Court always assumed, and
correctly so, I believe, is that if the only thing that
is unconstitutional is somebody's sentence, that's the
only thing a Federal court has the power to invalidate.
And that's the only thing -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the sentence
is -- he is convicted, sentenced to 10 years, and raises
an argument, and only an argument, that cuts off 2 years
of his sentence. He says under the statute the maximum
is 8 years, and the court says, the judgment is vacated
to the extent it goes beyond 8 years.
Can he then bring a new challenge to, say,
the whole sentence, or cut it off at 4 years, or does
that limit his challenge? In other words, I'm trying to
get to the point that it's not just the conviction, but
if it's a period of the sentence that is not subject to
challenge the first time?
MR. FISHER: Well, I don't know,
Mr. Chief Justice, that that question could actually
arise in a section 2254 case, where the only thing a
Federal court has power to do is to declare one way or
the other whether the sentence is constitutional or not
and then leave it to the State to decide in further
proceedings how to -- how to go forward.
In the Federal context in section 2255, the
question you suggest might arise, and indeed it has in a
few places. And the question that the Federal courts
have asked themselves in the second habeas petition, the
second in time habeas petition, is the -- is the
Petitioner challenging something he lost on the first
time? And if the answer to that is yes, then it's a
successive petition.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I don't want to
belabor -
MR. FISHER: If he's challenging -
JUSTICE ALITO: I don't want to belabor this
point, but once you get beyond the formal argument that
you just look to whether it's a new judgment -- if you
-- if you take a step beyond that, and if you -- if you
don't take a step beyond that, then footnote 8 is wrong.
If you take a step beyond that, then
there -- then there isn't a textual basis for drawing
this distinction between the sentence and the
conviction. And what you need to ask is what is
consistent with the scheme of that; isn't that right?
MR. FISHER: No, Justice Alito. I think
there are two textual bases. The first is the word
"judgment" and, as I've described, sometimes this Court
treats the judgment as having two parts that can be
divided, and sometimes it doesn't. I think in this
context it ought to treat them as able to be divided.
The other place you look is the words "second" -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Before you get
beyond that, what you are talking about here is the
judgment under which he is being held in custody, right?
MR. FISHER: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that -- even if you
divide it, that judgment hasn't changed.
MR. FISHER: Well, certainly it has -
JUSTICE SCALIA: He is still -- even -- his
sentence has been altered and it's sent back for
resentencing, but he is still being held in custody
under the same judgment.
MR. FISHER: He is being held in custody
until he is executed, certainly, under his conviction.
But his death sentence -- and in habeas -- in habeas
it's always been understood you can challenge not just
the fact of your custody, but the terms under which your
custody -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's true. But -
MR. FISHER: So I think the death sentence
here is most easily thought of as the terms of the
custody, which is a separate thing that he challenged
and won on the first time and is challenging again now.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I -- I'm not sure.
And getting back to Justice Alito's point, if -- if we
say that the conviction is separate from the sentence,
he can't challenge the conviction without being -
meeting the successive bar, what about the finding of
death eligibility? Why -- why can't that be separated
from the sentence just like the earlier conviction?
MR. FISHER: Well, I think that because -
what we're we are really talking about here when we talk
about death eligibility is the need to find an
aggravating circumstance. And here that goes only to
whether -- his penalty, what his penalty can be. It's
only to whether he can receive the death sentence or
not. So it goes solely to punishment, not to crime.
Now, Justice Alito, on -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That followed from the
first conviction.
MR. FISHER: The first conviction enabled
him -- if we put aside for the moment our substantive
fight over whether or not the crime itself constitutes
an aggravating circumstance, but the conviction itself
carries a life sentence unless an aggravating
circumstance is found.
And so put -- put it this way,
Justice Kennedy: After the Eleventh Circuit granted
habeas relief the first time, Mr. Magwood at that
moment, in 1986, was subject to a conviction that
carried a life sentence. And it was the State that
elected to go forward at that point and to seek a new
death sentence. And all our position is, is that when
that brandnew full-blown sentencing hearing was held -
and the Alabama trial court at Pet App. 103a called this
a "complete and new assessment of the evidence and the
law" -- when this new hearing was held it had to comport
with the Constitution.
I don't think even the State disputes that
all the -- all parts of the Constitution applied in that
context.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Fisher -
MR. FISHER: And so -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- you -- you say -- you
present this argument that it is a second petition and
you say that's the only issue before us and there is no
other way that the new proceeding would be cut off under
AEDPA.
There was in this case, in the first -- when
the -- the sentence was set -- set aside, an order by
the district judge; and it said: Magwood, I want you
now to bring out all conceivable -- all conceivable
claims on pain of forfeiture.
Why doesn't that alone -- this is an order
by the court: I don't want you to engage in seriatim
litigation; I want you to bring forward all conceivable
claims. And that was an order and it was made on pain
of forfeiture. Why isn't that dispositive of this case?
MR. FISHER: Because that order was entered
in one case, and now we have an entirely different case,
Justice Ginsburg. That order was entered in the case
under which Mr. Magwood challenged his 1981 judgment.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but what he's
bringing up now was a conceivable claim that he could
have brought up then.
MR. FISHER: Well, it's not -- it was not
claim he could have brought, and this is an important
point, Justice Ginsburg. Under res judicata law, he is
not making, as the State would say, the same claim now
as he could have made then. The fact that he is
challenging a different judgment by definition makes it
a new -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the issue is the
same. The issue is that he didn't qualify for the death
penalty because at the time he committed this offense,
there had to be, in addition to the eligible offense, at
least one aggravator.
MR. FISHER: That's right. The legal -- the
legal issue that he is raising is one that he could have
raised then.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So why doesn't preclusion
result from the court's order that says: Bring up all
conceivable claims?
MR. FISHER: Because you can't waive
something by failing to raise it in a different case.
This is an entirely different case, in the district
court -
JUSTICE BREYER: Then -- then you get to -
you get to Justice Alito's question, because in fact
what we have here is we have piece of paper issued in
1981, and on that piece of paper it says: You, Billy
Joe Magwood, are guilty and sentenced to death by
electrocution. Then we have another piece of paper
which was issued in 1986, and that says: You are
ordered and adjudged guilty of the offense of aggravated
murder and sentenced to death by electrocution. So the
words are identical. And one was issued in '81 and one
was issued in '86.
So you are saying since '86 -- this piece of
paper in '86 is a new judgment, you can start all over.
So then the question comes up, well, if you can start
all over in respect to anything, why can't you start all
over in respect to everything? But you recognize that
that would be a mess, because all the things that were
never challenged here, like those things related to
guilt, they could all come up again, too, even though he
has never done it.
So what is -- what is -- what is your
answer? Clearly you are going to start saying some
things if it wasn't at issue you can bring up, and
others you can't; and once you are down that track, how
do we know whether these are on one side or the other?
MR. FISHER: So let me answer that in
practical terms and then get back to Justice Alito by
giving a -- giving statutory hook for it.
In practical terms, even though the new
judgment, which is at Pet. App. 106a, reimposes the
conviction, it's not anything new as to that conviction.
If it were a new judgment as to that conviction, the
State of Alabama would have to have a whole new trial on
guilt/innocence, and it didn't.
JUSTICE BREYER: It is something new in
respect to the sentence.
MR. FISHER: Pardon me?
JUSTICE BREYER: It is something new in
respect to the sentence.
MR. FISHER: It is new because of the
brandnew sentence, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Ah! But it is not new in
respect to the words. They are identical.
MR. FISHER: Well, it's -
JUSTICE BREYER: All that happened -
MR. FISHER: -- they imposed -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- is the sentence was
reimposed. So why not those things?
Does your concession on the first part,
which I agree is necessary, imply a concession on the
second part, that it's not new in respect to what might
have been brought up before?
MR. FISHER: No, it doesn't. Look at this
Court's decision in Lawlor. This is discussed in our
opening brief, I believe around page 23, and it's a res
judicata case. And what the Court held in that case is
if somebody does something to somebody, the exact same
thing multiple times, you can bring a new case when they
do it to you the second time or the third time, and you
can make arguments that were never made the first time.
There is no waiver, there is no forfeiture, and the
reason you can do it is you are challenging a new
injury.
So Mr. Magwood under -- even under res
judicata law, which this Court has said is stricter than
habeas law, even under res judicata law he would have
the right to bring this claim as to the sentence because
it's challenging something new.
Now let me get back to the statute, because
this is important. The other place that we get our -
our answer is the word -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. The reason
Lawlor doesn't work is what you have there is different
acts. The later judgment is -- is not just a later
judgment with respect to the same act. It's a later
judgment with -- with respect to a different act. Here
you are saying you want to apply the same rule with
respect to a later judgment, redoing the judgment for
the same prior act. And I don't think that the same
rule has to apply.
MR. FISHER: With all due respect, I think
Lawlor does apply. One example in that case is an
abatable nuisance. Imagine that smoke goes over and
pollutes somebody's property every -- every first day of
January every year. Somebody brings a lawsuit about
that saying it violates certain laws, and they lose. If
the next year smoke goes over the property again, you
can bring a lawsuit for the identical thing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not the identical thing.
The last one was for the smoke that went last year. The
next one is for the smoke that went this year.
MR. FISHER: Fair enough. Well, same -
same here. The first case Mr. Magwood brought was about
the 1981 judgment sentencing him to death, and this case
is about the 1986.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The same act of his. I'm
talking about the act that is the basis of the lawsuit.
MR. FISHER: But remember, the act -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's the very same act.
MR. FISHER: But all we are talking about
here is not the same act. The same act as to the
conviction carries over, but this was, as the trial
court put it, a complete and new assessment of the
evidence. This second -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I -- I -- I want you
to get -- on the assessment of the evidence, I just want
to ask -- I probably should know this, and you can get
back to Justice Alito's question as well. Under Alabama
procedure, at the sentencing hearing both in the first
trial and the second, is there evidence about the
aggravating and mitigating, or do you just look at the
evidence that was proven in the guilt phase?
MR. FISHER: Well, the trial judge -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there new witnesses,
et cetera?
MR. FISHER: As it turns out, the parties
did not put new witnesses on the stand. But the trial
judge was explicit -- and this is in the -- in the order
that's in the back of the appendix -- it was explicit
that the parties had the right to do that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then it's -
MR. FISHER: They had every right -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- not clear to me why
death eligibility wasn't a part of the first conviction.
MR. FISHER: Because death eligibility
hinges on the finding of an aggravating circumstance.
And so that was vacated when the -- when the -- when the
State elected to go forward and tried to reimpose a
death sentence and the -- reimpose a new death sentence
and the trial judge found new -- it turned out to be the
same aggravating circumstance, but it found an
aggravating circumstance all over again.
Imagine, Justice Kennedy, the State if it
had wanted to at the second death sentence hearing could
have submitted evidence to try to prove a new
aggravating circumstance. The defendants could have
submitted evidence trying to prove new mitigating
circumstances.
Now, Mr. -- Justice Alito, I think it's
important to get back to your question for the second
actual hook for my argument, and it's the words "second
or successive." It has to -- in some way to make any
sense of the statute, you have to say it's second or
successive as to something.
Now, if you look at McCleskey, which is this
Court's most thorough consideration of that concept, it
says again and again in that decision what makes it
second or successive is that you are asking for the same
thing you have been denied before. You are coming back,
as -- as -- as it used to be the case, you are filing,
in effect, an appeal, endless appeals from the denials
that you have been getting.
We are giving meaning to "second or
successive" by saying that it's second or successive if
you are asking for relief that has been denied before.
It is not second or successive if it's the first time
you are challenging something new that the State's
imposed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Fisher -- Mr. Fisher,
to get -- I get your "second, it's a new judgment." But
thinking in terms of what AEDPA was attempting to do, we
have two claims, one after the other. The second claim
is one that would take away the death penalty forever,
that would be it, because he said the only sentence I
can get is life without parole.
He brings instead, first, one that doesn't
make him -- that still leaves him exposed to the death
penalty. So the court has been put upon twice. If he
had brought the first claim and he is right about that,
he's not death eligible. Instead, he brings a claim
that still leaves him death eligible, and the court has
been burdened twice, when easily he could have brought,
as the district judge instructed him to do, everything
the first time.
MR. FISHER: Justice Ginsburg, I'm going to
tell you two things. First of all, with -- with respect
to the two different claims, given the severity of
Mr. Magwood's mental illness, I think there was every
reason to expect that prevailing on that claim in the
Eleventh Circuit would have put an end to the State's
decision to seek the death penalty in this case.
As it turns out, it didn't and the State
went forward.
But also understand that the State's
argument here, to the extent you are ordering the claims
in sort of a level of importance, would apply even if
the opposite were true, even if Mr. Magwood had brought
the -- had brought some other claim the first time and
prevailed on it. Any claim, the State says, that you
could have raised the first time is forever barred. And
that gets to, well, I still don't think I have quite
answered the question on second or successive, so let me
continue that.
We are giving meaning to that term "second
or successive." It's important to understand that,
whatever slight difficulty you have with the word
"judgment" and making sense of the words "second or
successive" in our case are dwarfed by the interpretive
difficulties, in fact the impossibilities, with respect
to the State's proposal.
The State's proposal -- and it's laid out at
page 17 of its brief, at the top of the page, right
after the number 1 -- the State's proposed rule -- and I
think it's useful to put it next to the statute. The
State's proposed rule is if a claim could have been or
was raised in a prior petition, it is barred by Section
2244 (2) or (1).
Now, the first thing you will notice is that
the words "second or successive" appear nowhere in the
State's rule. The State gives no definition, no meaning
whatsoever, to those concepts. What the State is trying
to do is -- is ask this Court to create a brandnew
waiver system, a brandnew waiver system for all second
in time petitions.
And we know -- we know from
Martinez-Villareal and Slack and other cases that second
in time petitions are not necessarily successive and
certainly they ought not to be thought of as successive
when they challenge a different judgment or a different
conviction or the like.
But what the State is asking for is a
brandnew waiver system that has never been imposed in
any decision from this Court and there have been three
decisions from this Court where it would have come up.
One is Burton, another is Richmond, which is cited in
our brief, and the third case is -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, how -- how does the
State's definition at page 17 of the red brief not
comport with the whole idea of second or successive?
MR. FISHER: Because the only way to get the
idea of second or successive into the State's definition
is where it says prior habeas petition. So, the only
way that a State can even be pretending to give meaning
to that would be a second in time petition.
Now, we know that can't be enough because of
Slack and Martinez-Villareal. But even more than that,
we know that can't be enough because it would -- it
would prohibit defendants from bringing second habeas
petitions even as to things that are novel as to -- a
second in time rule would apply section 2244's rules to
even second in time petitions that are brandnew things
that arose at the retrial or resentencing.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, but that's not -
that's not something that could have been or was raised.
MR. FISHER: That's right, Justice Kennedy.
So the State creates additional statutory language that
doesn't exist. It could have been or a previously
available rule. Let me give you some -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's an issue
that we look at all the time under AEDPA. That's not a
new approach. AEDPA says, you know, if you show that a
claim relies on a new rule of constitutional law made
retroactive, that was previously unavailable. That
seems to me to be the same inquiry, as to whether or not
a claim could not have been raised in a prior habeas
petition.
MR. FISHER: I disagree, Mr. Chief Justice.
You do look at those questions once it has been
determined that a petition is second or successive. You
have never looked at those questions in order to
determine somehow whether it gets in the door.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's an -- I thought
your point -- I thought your point was, oh, this is
going to be hard to do, impossible, as you say.
MR. FISHER: Well, I can tell you lots of
reasons why that would be the case. So, let me give you
some examples.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait. First -
before you get off whether this is second or successive,
although the -- the State didn't put it this way, I
think what the State is clearly saying is that if it is
the second petition that could have raised this issue,
it is second or successive. What's wrong with that?
MR. FISHER: The word -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why doesn't that fit -- fit
the statutory language?
MR. FISHER: Because the word the statute
used, Justice Scalia, is "claim," not issue. And this
is not the same claim.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't use -
MR. FISHER: Lawlor tells you that, and res
judicata.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- it doesn't use
"judgment," either, and -- and -- and you are -- you are
dragging in judgment as the -- as the -
MR. FISHER: Well, it refers to section
2254, and section 2254 uses the word "judgment," so it's
our belief it is by incorporation.
But to get back to your precise question,
it's important because the statute does not use the
words "issue" or "argument." It uses the word "claim,"
which is a defined term in legal parlance.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. So if -- if this is
the -- if this is the second time that this claim could
have been presented, it's a second -- it's a second or
successive claim.
MR. FISHER: But, Justice Scalia, this is
not the second time this claim could have been
presented. In 1983 or '84 when he filed his first
habeas petition, he couldn't make this claim because
this judgment didn't even exist. There would be no way
to challenge this judgment. And I'm not being overly
technical here. I just urge you to look at res judicata
law.
Now let me give you some examples of the
difficulties the State system would raise. First of
all, with -- with respect to intervening authority. The
State itself concedes in its brief that it's not clear
how its system would apply in the case of somebody who
gets habeas relief and then later wants to seek habeas
relief based on an intervening decision of this Court.
Up until now that has been a perfectly easy
situation because the new judgment allows a new claim to
be brought, but under the State's rule it's unclear. To
the extent that the State says, well, what we would have
to do is look and see -- look and see whether if there
was fair notice of that decision, the defendant would
have raised it. That gets into very difficult
situations about how new is the decision.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems to me -- it
seems to me those are the exact same problems that would
arise, do arise, under AEDPA. You have got to show that
it's a new rule of constitutional law made retroactive.
MR. FISHER: But that's not the State's
rule, Mr. Chief Justice. It's very easy to say whether
this Court has made a decision retroactive. It would
be. It hasn't happened, but I imagine it would be very
easy.
The State's rule is any new decision from
this Court gives the defendant a new -- gives potential
rise to a debate as to whether or not that claim was
previously available.
Let me tick off a couple of other things
before I sit down. What about a situation the first
time where a claim is Teague-barred or procedurally
precluded or maybe even the defendant doesn't raise it
because under the facts that the first trial went
forward, it would have been harmless error.
All of those situations would raise very
difficult questions as to whether that claim, as the
State would put it, was previously available. Even,
again, go back to the idea of having a new trial based
on new -- based on new facts and new evidence. Trying
to figure out whether it's the same claim, a different
claim; imagine a claim based on a prosecutor's closing
argument. Well, unless the prosecutor reads the exact
same script a second time, there is going to be a huge
fight over whether it's a new claim, an old claim, a
different claim.
And finally, the State's other -- the other
prong of the State's test is about claims that were
raised before are now barred. Now, the State
immediately recognizes that that's a huge problem
because it would bar defendants from making -- from
seeking habeas relief if the State made the same
violation the second time around. So it invents a
brand-new due process principle that has never been held
to be -- to be in existence by this Court. And indeed,
in the Penry case, where this Court dealt with the Texas
situation, where the State court made the same error
twice, it went straight to the constitutional claim.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if it's the
second -- I see your light's on. If it's the second
time around, then it's just barred by law of the case.
MR. FISHER: Well, it -- well, it shouldn't
be barred. Because it's a new judgment, the defendant
should be able to get relief the second time around. It
would be a very strange construction of the habeas
statute, and it wouldn't be law of the case because it
would be a new case, again, Justice Kennedy.
And finally, let me give you the situation
of claims the defendant raises but then loses on but is
unable to appeal. Imagine a case like this where the
defendant has many other claims that he loses on in the
district court or in the court of appeals. Now, the
State has a pickle here.
It has to either say that those claims are
forever barred from being raised again, even though the
defendant was deprived of a full right to appeal because
he won on something else and couldn't appeal the losses
on the other issues, or the State has to say that those
were -- that those were not previously available, those
claims were not previously available, in which all of
its rhetoric about resurrecting past claims drops away.
Again, a very difficult question that this
Court's going to have to grapple with if it accepts the
State's rule.
I would like to reserve what time I have
left.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Fisher.
Mr. Maze.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF COREY L. MAZE
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. MAZE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Even though they rose together, the State
has litigated Magwood's mitigating circumstances in
Federal court from 1983 to 1986, and now we have been
litigating these aggravating circumstances from 1997
through today. That's piecemeal litigation. That's
precisely the reason that AEDPA was passed under 2244(b)
and that's precisely what the abuse of the writ doctrine
was designed to prevent.
And it's based on the principle that this
Court unanimously affirmed again yesterday. You have
equitable principles that say when you have two parties,
a party has a full and fair opportunity to praise a
claim or to litigate. But the other party also has a
finality interest. And once you take away your full and
fair opportunity by not using it, the other party's
interest in finality outweighs. That's what Congress
envisioned in AEDPA. That's what this Court envisioned
with the abuse of the write doctrine. That's why we
don't allow someone who had a claim previously available
that didn't use it to bring it again.
And if I may, I want to go straight to
Justice Alito's question about conviction versus
sentence, and then to Justice Kennedy's about whether or
not under Alabama law this is aggravated with something
new to the resentencing.
As far as judgment -- conviction versus
sentence, I had two answers. Justice Breyer got to the
first. On page 106, the new judgment, as Mr. Magwood
would say, says, "I hereby judge you convicted of the
underlying offense in the actual guilt phase and the
sentence." So it contains both, if you consider that a
new judgment.
But the second point is, if Magwood is
correct that you can separate a judgment of sentence and
conviction, then Burton is wrong. Burton has to be
wrong. Because the argument in Burton was -- he cited
In Re Taylor, which was the exact same case we put in
our brief. He said: My first petition attacked the
judgment of conviction; my second petition attacked the
judgment of resentence, and because those are two
separate judgments, this was my first chance to attack
the judgment of sentence.
And this Court said: No, it's one judgment;
it's conviction and sentence. And because your first
petition attacked that judgment that contained both,
your second petition attacks the same judgment that
contained both.
So if Mr. Magwood is right that you can
separate the two, then Burton has to be wrong. Now -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I think what you would
have to do -- it's a dilemma here.
MR. FISHER: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: What you would have to say
to follow his approach, is you would say: Judge, here
is what you would do. They're filing it from the second
judgment. Okay? So it is not second or successive.
But wait. If there is a first judgment that
says the same thing, then it is, in effect, the first
judgment that counts.
Now, what happens when there is a change?
Well, to note the scope of the change, you would go to
the habeas court and you would say, to the extent that
that habeas court changed -- reversed -
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- or left open or told the
lower court: Do this over; to that extent, it is a new
judgment. And that -- that would get them where they
want to go.
MR. MAZE: And you just answered
Justice Kennedy's question. The question in this case
is: What changed? If you'll look at the district
court's opinion, its order from the first case -- it's
page 228 of the opinion -- it said: The Court finds
that this case must be remanded to the State court for
resentencing on the existence of mitigating
circumstances, rather than two. Justice Kennedy's
question was -
JUSTICE BREYER: Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait
right there. I would have read that to say that what he
said was: Vacate the sentencing part.
Now, you say: Well, vacate the sentencing
part; fine. Now we look at the second judgment, and we
say: It's a new judgment. Oh, but it isn't.
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Insofar as that habeas
didn't tinker with it. But they did tinker with it,
because they vacated the sentencing part.
Now, why doesn't that work? And his
argument is, that works much easier for the judges, much
easier for everybody, than to try to figure out whether
a claim could have or couldn't have been raised, whether
a sentence was changed from six years to five years, or
who knows what we are going to get into; et cetera.
MR. MAZE: Because it's one of two things.
Either you vacated the entire judgment and the
conviction and sentence are put back together -- they
are -- it is a new judgment altogether. Or you look at
specifically what the constitutional infirmity was that
the Court identified in that case.
The answer to Justice Kennedy's question is:
There are four things under Alabama law at the time of
this case that were necessary to have a death sentence.
The first was an indictment with an aggravating
circumstance. The second was a conviction of a capital
offense. The third was the State announcing an
aggravating circumstance. And the fourth was a penalty
phase recommendation from the jury that was unanimous.
When this case went back, all four of those
things were carried over from the first trial. We
didn't do any of those things again. They were all
carried over. They are relics from the original trial.
The only thing new that happened was we added the two
mitigators to the weighing calculus and it was
reweighed. And we know that is true from the district
court's opinion in the second case.
Mr. Magwood claimed that he could bring a
claim against the fact that we didn't re-empanel the
penalty phase jury, which, again, is a sentencing claim,
and the district court said no, the State court didn't
have to re-empanel the jury to give another
recommendation, because that wasn't the problem in the
first case. The only problem in the first case was not
having the two additional mitigators. And under the
same rationale, the State's announcement of the
aggravator was also a relic from the first case. And in
fact, we know that, because in the circuit court's
opinion in the first case, it specifically told the
State court: If you will weigh the same aggravating
circumstance against the four instead of two, we won't
question your judgment.
JUSTICE BREYER: This argument -- I am
making it up, but I mean, he doesn't have to apply these
arguments -- but it seems to me that the argument
against this is: What you are proposing is too
complicated. There are thousands of these in the courts
of appeals. All you would like is you would like the
court of appeals to look back and say: What part of the
original sentence did the district court, habeas,
vacate?
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Not look into the reasons
for it, et cetera. Because once we start going into the
reasons for it, the litigation is just going to
mushroom.
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and, you know, you
have this new witness but not that new witness, et
cetera. So his argument is one from simplicity. Start
with the judgment. Second, keep it the same insofar as
the district court didn't vacate it. And deal with it
as a new judgment, which it is, insofar as they did.
MR. MAZE: There is a simple answer to why
the Federal courts can deal with this, and we know they
can deal with it. And the answer is: When this happens
on direct appeal in a Federal prisoner's case -- for
example, if a Federal prisoner says you shouldn't have
enhanced my sentence for this one reason, and he gets a
remand where the sentence is vacated, he is resentenced
and it comes back up -- the circuit courts are
unanimous. They all say you can't challenge other
enhancers from the original sentence because you could
have raised it the first time. I can give you case
after case after case where they have done that. A good
example: Judge Posner had the case U.S. v. Parker 101
at 3rd 527, where he says the exact same thing and his
analysis is exactly what we are saying. A party cannot
use the accident of a remand to raise in a second appeal
an issue that he just as well could have raised in the
first appeal. And the principle is exactly the same,
that the Federal courts in State habeas will look to see
is this was an issue you could have raised the first
time, and if it was, you are out.
It would make no sense under AEDPA for a
Federal prisoner on direct appeal to give the U.S.
government a finality interest in enhancers that could
have been challenged the first time, but not to give the
same finality interest to States when they are coming
into Federal court under AEDPA for aggravators that have
been challenged the first time. Again, the whole
purpose of AEDPA was to give finality to the State. If
Federal government is going to get a greater interest
than the States, then AEDPA is completely -- I mean,
it's just completely wrong.
Now, another problem with Magwood's argument
is, he is going to kill an entire line of cases, the
Kyzer cases, where you can challenge good time credits,
parole credits. If you remember, in Kyzer, you said if
you are challenging your good time, you can raise that
in a 2254 petition. Now, under Magwood's rule, if you
read it as a second or successive application against a
judgment -- let's assume that you've lost in your first
habeas, so your first petition is now done and you have
lost. Good time credits are taken away from you. Under
this Court's precedent, you raised that in a 2254
petition, but that petition will be the second petition
under the same judgment. And he would be barred because
the good time credit claims would meet an exception.
It's not new facts or law that proves he's innocent, and
therefore it is barred.
The only way that the circuits have been
able to deal with that situation is exactly the way the
State's saying here and that Justice Scalia is saying.
You ask the question first: Is this a claim that has
been available before? And if it's not a claim that was
available before, and because it's a good time claim
that wasn't, then you say this is not a second or
successive application, because it is the first
application in which he could have brought the claim.
That's directly -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And Mr. Fisher uses the
word "claim" as -- differently.
MR. MAZE: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He makes a distinction
between "issue" and "claim." Yes, it's the same issue;
could have been -- the issue could have been raised
earlier, but, he says, it's not the same claim. And the
statute uses the word "claim."
MR. MAZE: I have two answers to that, if I
can, Justice Ginsburg. The first is: This Court has
defined a claim in Gonzalez v. Crosby, which is a 2254
case, as the assertion of a ground that entitles the
Petitioner to habeas relief.
If you'll look at the question presented,
Magwood agrees that this -- this says at the end: "The
Petitioner could have challenged his previously imposed
but now vacated sentence on the same constitutional
grounds." If the claim is grounds that can give you
relief and he admits that it's the same grounds he could
have gotten relief on the first time, it is the same
claim.
Now, to the extent he is telling you this is
a new injury, that -- the smoke example that Mr. Magwood
is talking about, we disagree with that; to the extent
that he would be right, the difference is in this case,
he asked us to blow the smoke at him a second time.
Remember what happened in the first proceeding. Magwood
didn't challenge the aggravating circumstance, and then
when we got to the court of appeals, he asked
specifically the Eleventh Circuit to send this case back
for resentencing so that the four mitigators could be
weighed against the original aggravator. He asked for
this to go back and to -- asked to have the aggravator
applied to him again. So he invited the error. This is
not like a normal civil case where -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what would happen
if it had been sent back on this ground, but there was
another ground that he had appealed on which the Court
never reached?
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Would he still be
able to raise that one on habeas?
MR. MAZE: Yes. And again, the reason is -
it's just like you said in Espinoza yesterday -- you get
one full and fair opportunity to litigate a claim. If
you raise the claim in the first petition, it's not
abusive, as this Court said it in McCleskey, because
McCleskey says it is only abusive if you could have but
didn't. And this Court's really already answered that
question in Slack.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think you are right, but
McCleskey was pre-AEDPA.
MR. MAZE: It was.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What was the answer under
AEDPA to Justice Scalia's problem?
MR. MAZE: I think it's the same, and the
reason I say that because in Slack, you had a first
petition that raised an exhausted claim. It was
dismissed. He raised what everybody acknowledged was a
second in time petition, but you said because he didn't
get an adjudication on the merits, we're going to let
him do it again. The same thing happened in
Martinez-Villareal.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we just found that to
be successive under the words of the statute?
MR. MAZE: Right. But in Panetti -- if you
remember, in Panetti, he raised a -- he did not raise a
Ford claim the first time around, and this Court said
yes, if we looked at it only a second in time, this
would be barred, but we defined second or successive
application under the abuse of the writ doctrine. And
because this was the first time this claim was right you
allowed him to do it and called it a first application,
and the reason was because he couldn't raise it the
first time.
Now, back to the point -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought your answer to
Justice Scalia's point: Suppose it was raised but the
Court didn't decide it.
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Your test, I take it, is
that he must have one full and fair opportunity to
litigate the question; that means to raise it, to have
it aired, and to have it decided.
MR. MAZE: Absolutely. The point would be,
it's not an abuse of the writ if you raise a claim the
first time but don't have the chance to have it
adjudicated. You abuse the writ, as this Court has
always said, by having a chance to raise the claim but
then not doing it.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what they raised -
your view is a simple rule, no matter how many judgments
there are.
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: If this claim could have
been raised and would have been fully adjudicated had it
been, it's barred.
MR. MAZE: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: But if either it couldn't
have been raised, or if it could have been raised and
wouldn't have been fully adjudicated or was not fully
adjudicated, not barred.
MR. MAZE: Yes, that's it. And that's
directly in line -
JUSTICE BREYER: And applied to everything.
Can we reconcile that with the language?
Does it work in terms of the language?
MR. MAZE: What this Court has done since
AEDPA came out on two different occasions, has said the
second or successive petition is a term of art, which
would give substance in our previous habeas corpus
cases, the abuse of the writ doctrine cases.
This Court has always said since AEDPA came
out that we have to define the term by looking at what's
an abuse of the writ. And that's what the circuit
courts have done. The circuit courts are applying the
same rule that we have given you, which is precisely
what Justice Scalia said earlier.
JUSTICE BREYER: One judgment. One
judgment. Never come up on appeal. Yes, it did, the
first one. And let's see. There were 15 issues that
were raised. They only answered -- you know, they
answered one. Now we go back and then five years later
he wants to bring up a different one. Fine. You can do
it. Not second or successive.
MR. MAZE: Can you repeat? I'm sorry. I
lost you.
JUSTICE BREYER: It -- it's there in the
case.
MR. MAZE: Okay. The claim is available.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's one judgment. He
makes five claims.
MR. MAZE: Okay. Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: The district court doesn't
decide, for some reason, I don't know, number 3 or 4.
Maybe I -- maybe it's not realistic, what I say. Let me
think about it some more.
MR. MAZE: Okay. While you are doing that,
I want to make another point.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, now, just to
follow up: It's very realistic. I think a reasonable
judge might decide: Look, if I can dispose of this case
on ground one, you know, why should I go and decide all
these other issues, which may be difficult?
MR. MAZE: Right. And it does happen.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. And so I
assume your point is that he can raise -- he can raise
again issues that he raised before; it's no fault of his
that the Court didn't reach -
MR. MAZE: Yes, that's right. Because he
didn't have the full and fair opportunity to have it
adjudicated. Now, in this -
JUSTICE BREYER: Full -- see, he filed his
petition -- this would get rid of -- I think there
are -- I am worried about that there are cases out there
that say the opposite. But we get rid of all those
cases, if there are any, and you just say that he has
not had the full opportunity to have the litigation on a
claim that he did raise.
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Or if he couldn't have
raised it, it doesn't matter if there was one judgment
forever. He can raise it again and again, as long as he
only does each one once, and they are not second or
successive even if they appear in petitions 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, and 7.
MR. MAZE: That seems to be what the Court
said in Martinez-Villareal.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, he'd have to bring
them all in petition, too. You can't say, you know,
there are five that weren't reached and bring a separate
habeas reach for each one of the five. At first habeas,
you would have to bring all of them, right?
MR. MAZE: Right. And in the forum -- and
in the forum rule, number 9 in the instructions, in big,
bold letters, informs the Petitioner: You have to raise
every claim, subject to the fact that you will lose it
if you don't.
Now, I want to bring up a point on why this
matters to the State. On page 48 of our red brief, we
showed you some statistics about the number of claims
the Petitioners bring, but what we didn't cite -- it's
on page 51 and 52 of the same study. The study shows
that after AEDPA, 13 percent of capital habeas petitions
nationwide -- and if you take Texas out, it's actually
18 percent -- are granted. 70 percent of capital habeas
petitions that are granted are granted on penalty phase
claims alone. In Alabama, we looked, and we haven't
found a conviction-based grant in over a decade, but we
have had two penalty phases in the last two years.
So what Mr. Magwood is doing is asking you
to adopt the rule that, 10 percent of the time, would
put the State and district courts in the position of
relitigating an entire capital habeas case. And what we
showed you was capital habeas proceedings are the
absolute most time-consuming cases in the district
courts. And he's wanting you to throw away the abuse of
the writ doctrine and the successive petition doctrine
in cases where there was a limited grant in the first
case. And it -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not the whole
case. I mean, he concedes that the conviction can't be
challenged. It's just the sentencing aspect.
MR. MAZE: Right. As the point we have been
making with Justice Alito, I just don't see where he can
make that distinction between conviction and sentence.
And if this Court just comes back and says: New
judgment means it resurrects, I can assure you that the
next petitioner will come along and say: I am not
making the same concession that Mr. Magwood did;
judgment means conviction and sentence, see Burton. And
he's going to raise 50 repetitive claims from his
conviction and from his original sentence. And then we
have the problem that the Federal district courts are
already dealing with, if the habeas petitions, as we
showed in the brief -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Wouldn't
collateral estoppel block the relitigation of all
sentencing -- resentencing issues that were decided that
were identical?
MR. MAZE: No, Justice Sotomayor, and the
reason is collateral estoppel is a res judicata
principle that doesn't apply to Federal habeas
proceedings. That's the reason that the abuse of writ
doctrine and the successive petition doctrine were
created. When you go all the way back to Salinger -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what case do I
read that supports that proposition?
MR. MAZE: Salinger.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I had thought that
law of the case issue preclusion would apply.
MR. MAZE: No. The Court has always said
that res judicata in -- forms, and the case to lack back
to is all the way back to Salinger. If you remember
Salinger, he had two habeas petitions. The first one
raised a claim on which lost. The second petition
raised exactly the same claim, and he lost again.
And the Federal Government -- the reason he
lost is because they said it was barred by res judicata,
in this case claim preclusion. It went up to this Court
and this Court said res judicata doesn't apply in
Federal habeas proceedings, so that court is wrong.
But we understand the problems the courts
are going to have because there is no res judicata;
therefore we are creating this abuse of the writ
doctrine, this equitable doctrine, that will allow the
courts to deal with the law of collateral estoppel. The
only thing that Mr. Magwood has been able to cite -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess if res judicata
applied, you wouldn't bring habeas in the first place on
an issue that was wrongly decided, right? If it was
decided res judicata.
MR. MAZE: Yes. Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And so your -- your habeas
claim would be barred.
MR. MAZE: Right. And -- and again, a
further point would be that, you know, Mr. Magwood keeps
saying that just because he won, this was different.
But -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the old -- the
former rule of course, was that you could bring writ
after writ after writ.
MR. MAZE: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was it -- was McCleskey
the first time that that -- that that was foreclosed?
No.
MR. MAZE: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That -- that just -- that
just incorporated a whole body of law which was very
much like issue preclusion, was it not?
MR. MAZE: Yes. No. The courts always said
it is a modified sort of res judicata, but they are
different in some respects. You can use it sort of as
an analogy, but they are different. The Court has said
res adjudicata doesn't apply; that's why we have to have
this similar doctrine because without it you could raise
repetitive claims. It was the whole reason that the
rule came into existence.
JUSTICE BREYER: What happens if in the
first trial, the lawyer thinks, you know, I have two
claims here; one is mediocre and one is great. And I'm
not going to win in the court of appeals unless I make
the great one; just forget about the mediocre. And he
brings it and he wins. Okay? Now he goes back. Now
can he make the mediocre one?
MR. MAZE: No. If he didn't raise it the
first time, he has lost his opportunity. That's Wong
Doo. The very first case that this Court ever decided
under abuse of the writ principles, Wong Doo raised two
claims, but the second claim he decided wasn't good
enough. He failed to put on evidence and abandoned it.
JUSTICE BREYER: So he better put in
everything.
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And if he puts in
everything and they don't reach the other ones, he's
okay, because he can raise it again.
MR. MAZE: Right. And we will let him do
that.
If the Court has no further questions.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me just ask, is this
the cases in which the claim is he's ineligible for the
death penalty?
MR. MAZE: The underlying claim itself.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And is that -- is that a
meritorious claim?
MR. MAZE: The first -- the first answer is,
the claim itself is that I have did I have fair notice
in 1978 that I could get the death penalty? The claim
itself, no, is not meritorious, but of course that's our
opinion. The Eleventh Circuit hasn't decided that issue
yet, nor has it decided what has always been our
principle argument: this claim is also procedurally
defaulted because he didn't fairly present it to the
State courts. The State courts never had an opportunity
to decide this fair warning claim -
JUSTICE STEVENS: The merits of the claims
have never been decided?
MR. MAZE: Not -- not by the State courts
because it wasn't fairly presented to them. The only -
only court to have even talked about it was the district
court.
But again, the Eleventh Circuit hasn't dealt
with it because second or successive is a jurisdictional
question, and if the claim is second or successive, then
it's barred and we simply haven't gotten to it.
Again, Your Honors, all we are asking you to
do is uphold the abuse of the write doctrine for the
same reason the Court adopted it in 1924 all the way
through AEDPA, and that is we are going to force
petitioners to raise every claim they could the first
time, so we prevent the State, the victim's family and
the Federal court from going through second or third
rounds of Federal habeas litigation on grounds they
could have raised the first time.
If the Court has no further questions I will
cede my time to the Court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Maze.
Mr. Fisher, you have 2 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FISHER: Thank you. Let me make two
points, Your Honor.
If I leave you with nothing else, think
about the argument that you just heard that again and
again talks about abuse of the writ, abuse of the writ,
abuse of the writ. Well, there is now a statute that
occupies this field, it's section 2254. And abuse of
the writ principles apply only if a petition is second
or successive. So if this Court does nothing else, it
has to define that term, and we are the only ones who
have given you a definition of second or successive.
And Congress made that decision for a
reason. It thought it was fair to impose strict burdens
oh relitigation to the extent that the defendant lost.
But when he wins, and gets a brand-new trial or a
brand-new sentencing hearing -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can we go back to
Justice -- to the Chief Justice's example to you at the
very beginning of your argument?
MR. FISHER: Pardon me?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: To the Chief Justice's
argument.
MR. FISHER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There is an order to
resentence, to reduce a sentence from 10 to 8 years.
The prior sentence was vacated. There is a new
proceeding, a new Booker type 35538 proceeding where the
judge is thinking about everything, and he says I am
going to reduce it from 10 to 8 years. I am leaving
everything else the same, because there was no arguments
about it; there is no anything about it.
Does your rule then mean that that
petitioner can come back and say, my fine was wrong, my
supervised release was wrong, other convictions, other
sentences that were consecutive or concurrent are wrong?
MR. FISHER: Probably not. But let me tell
you, Justice Sotomayor, that question can arise only in
a Federal situation. It cannot arise under section 2244
which gets to the other important point I wanted to
make.
The State keeps talking about what the
district court said. Well, when the State -- when this
case went to the Eleventh Circuit the first time, the
State made it very clear. It complained, it said the
district court can't remand this to the State courts, it
can't micromanage what a State court does.
All it can do -- and,
Justice Scalia, this is, I think, most clearly put in
your Wilkinson concurrence is order the release or not.
The Federal court in this case ordered Magwood's release
from the death penalty unless the defendant -- unless
the State wanted to elect to have a brandnew sentencing
proceeding.
Now, the State elected to do that,
and had every right to do it. But Magwood also had
every right to insist on every constitutional protection
in that circumstance.
And if I might finish this
sentence, Mr. Chief Justice, when he -- we agreed if
that Mr. Magwood had not properly preserved this
argument the second time around, it would be
procedurally defaulted. And if the State wants to make
that argument on remand, it can. But understand that
the State's argument is asking you to say that a claim
is barred from Federal habeas even if the defendant
completely properly raises it the second time around and
loses it and wants to then bring it to the Federal
courts.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:01 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
39:5 42:1 44:22 answer 5:8 7:1 20:18 24:24 33:12 34:16
50:18 8:6 14:5,9 16:4 27:4 29:1 35:13 38:18,21
54:1 affirmed 29:14 39:17 40:15 34:10,12 35:2 42:11 45:20
aggravating 31:23 39:12 53:15,17,18 52:12
41:1 17:19 18:9,14 answers 30:6 15:18 34:12 barred 20:23
42:3 18:15,19 29:8 37:22 52:9 21:14 27:10,22
46:12 33:7,10 34:7 App 11:6 14:13 arose 22:25 27:24 28:11
49:2 38:16 appeal 6:21 19:9 art 41:23 36:25 37:3
51:9,9 aggravator 28:6,12,13 aside 10:18 40:8 41:10,15
12:23 34:4 35:9,21,23 11:21 47:2,18 50:14
aggravators appealed 39:1 38:17,20,21 based 25:19
agrees 38:3 appear 21:17 aspect 45:16 basis 8:17 17:5
aired 40:22 APPEARAN... assessment 11:7 behalf 1:15,18
11:6 14:16 appendix 18:2 43:10 belabor 8:9,11
6:5,10 8:8,11 40:9,11 attacked 30:17 beyond 7:11
45:18 47:13 attempting big 44:13
13:10 17:16 apply 16:10,13 authority 25:15 block 46:6
30:1 16:15 20:19 available 23:6 blow 38:14
allowed 40:11 34:11 46:11,19 28:16 29:23 body 48:7
19:19
21:20,21 California 1:15 25:10 35:14 21:13 23:10,13 12:21
53:6 called 11:6 36:15 38:16 24:11,12,24 common 4:13
51:19,20 capital 33:8 9:23 12:8 14:1 26:14,18,23 complained
45:8 45:16 27:19 29:17,23 complete 11:7
30:6 carried 11:2 challenges 4:3,5 32:20 33:21,22 17:11
32:7 33:13,15 challenging 3:10 37:7,8,9,12,15 completely
34:10,20 carries 10:21 5:19 6:16 8:5 37:18,20,21,24 36:11,12 53:20
41:4,8 17:10 8:10 9:24 38:6,9 39:8,9 complex 3:13
42:7 case 3:4,14 4:1 12:17 15:20 39:21 40:6,10 complicated
5:18 7:20 16:1 19:15 40:24 41:2,8 34:14
48:17 11:20 12:4,6,6 36:17 42:18 43:22 comport 11:8
12:7 13:6,7 chance 30:20 44:15 46:24,25 22:12
15:13 16:15 17:1,2 change 31:14,15 49:15,17,19,21 45:15
22:9,11 19:8 20:14 changed 9:8 49:22 50:1,4 conceivable
30:17 21:6 22:9 31:17,25 32:21 50:13,19 53:18 11:23,23 12:2
46:4 23:24 25:17 Chief 3:3,8 7:6 claimed 33:20 12:10 13:4
11:23 28:3,6 30:16 23:20 26:3,8 11:24 12:3 concepts 21:19
13:3 14:6 31:24 32:1,3 28:23 29:3 13:4 19:20 concession 15:7
16:21 33:3,6,12,19 43:3,9 45:14 20:10,18 27:9 15:8 45:23
33:20 34:1,1,4,6 35:9 51:1,22,25 28:5,7,10,16 concurrence
44:7,9 35:16,17,17,18 53:13,23 28:17 37:1 53:3
37:25 38:13,18 circuit 10:24 42:20 44:19 concurrent
53:21 38:23 42:17 20:13 34:5 45:1,25 48:15 52:14
45:15 46:15,19 42:3,4 49:24 50:5 51:16
20:3 49:1 52:22 circuits 37:4 18:6 25:16 52:14
53:4,24,25 circumstance 52:23 consider 30:10
15:10 36:14,15 41:25 18:9,14,15,19 53:2 19:4
20:2,5,20 41:25 43:18,20 33:8,10 34:8 closing 27:3 consistent 8:20
25:22 45:9,12 49:15 38:16 53:11 Code 5:22 constitutes
cede 50:25 circumstances collateral 46:6 10:19
30:14,14 cetera 17:23 cited 22:8 30:15 52:12 7:22 23:10
31:3 32:22 34:21 civil 38:23 comes 13:22 26:6 27:19
35:2 claim 12:10,13 35:13 45:20 33:2 38:5
28:8 29:4,7,14 day 16:17 definition 12:17 doctrine 29:11
9:1 11:12 32:2,3 33:3,23 dealing 3:21 denials 19:9 46:13,13 47:9
38:17 39:1,10 death 4:3 5:18 designed 29:12 45:4
5:5 6:6 41:21 42:1,22 10:12 11:4 determined door 23:19
8:19 9:15 43:12 44:5 12:20 13:13,17 23:17 dragging 24:18
45:20 46:20 17:2 18:7,8,12 difference 38:13 drawing 8:17
11:1 47:3,4,5 48:12 18:12,17 19:21 different 12:6,17 drops 28:17
48:20 49:1,13 19:25 20:3,4 13:6,7 16:6,9 due 16:14 27:15
18:7 50:9,10,17,21 20:14 33:6 20:10 22:2,2 dwarfed 21:6
30:1,5,14 50:24,25 51:13 49:16,22 53:5 27:2,7 41:22 D.C 1:8
32:25 52:21,24,25 debate 26:14 42:12 47:21
45:15,19 53:4 48:11,12 E
46:1 courts 8:2 34:14 decide 3:21 7:23 differently 37:15 E 2:1 3:1,1
42:4,4 45:6,10 43:5,6 50:4 28:18 43:7 37:20 42:6
48:9 50:3,3,7 46:7 47:14,15 25:14 easily 9:22 20:5
29:1 court's 5:25 13:3 50:6 dilemma 31:5 26:8,11
28:19 32:1 19:5 20:14 directly 37:13 either 24:17
30:13 36:23 39:12 26:2,9,12 disagree 23:15 41:12
49:23 credit 37:1 defendant 25:25 disputes 11:10 Eleventh 10:24
4:5 36:22 28:5,7,12 37:17 45:19 49:24 50:11
6:1,3 crime 10:13,19 51:18 53:5,19 district 11:22 52:22
7:1,4 Crosby 37:24 defendants 13:7 20:6 28:8 eligibility 10:5,9
8:23 custody 4:23 6:7 18:19 22:21 31:25 33:18,23 18:7,8
12:1 13:8 6:11,15 9:5,12 27:12 34:17 35:4 eligible 12:22
17:11 9:14,18,19,23 define 42:2 42:22 45:6,9 20:3,4
21:20 cut 7:13 11:18 51:14 46:2 50:9 enabled 10:17
25:19 cuts 7:8 defined 24:25 52:21,24 endless 19:9
explicit 18:1,2 fine 32:11 42:12 24:14,19 25:5
45:7 20:18 25:23 first 3:11,21 4:1 37:14 51:2,3,5 General 1:17
38:12 51:18 9:24 10:16,17 fit 24:8,8 19:10
fact 9:18 12:16 17:1,17 18:7 follow 31:8 43:4 12:14,19 13:2
33:21 34:5 20:7,9,21,23 footnote 4:14 37:14,17,23
38:22 facts 26:20 27:1 25:7,14 26:17 force 50:18 give 22:16 23:6
failing 13:6 31:12 32:1 forever 19:21 35:16 36:3,5,9
40:20 43:14 35:23,25 36:5 forfeiture 11:24 51:15
34:21 51:17 37:7,11,23 forget 48:21 26:13,13
fairly 50:2,8 38:8,15 39:9 formal 8:12 giving 14:11,11
far 30:5 40:11,13,25 forms 46:21 go 7:24 11:3
Federal 6:24 7:4 45:12 46:23 forum 44:12,13 29:25 31:15,22
27:1 7:21,25 8:2 47:13 48:3,18 forward 7:24 38:21 42:11
29:7 35:7,9,10 48:25 49:1,20 11:3 12:2 43:6 46:14
30:16 36:10 46:2,11 52:22 26:21 goes 6:12 7:11
47:1,5 50:21 Fisher 1:15 2:3 found 10:22 10:10,13 16:16
46:25 53:4,19,21 5:14 6:9,13 45:2 going 14:5 20:8
38:11 fight 10:19 27:6 9:6,9,14,21 34:8 38:19 28:19 32:22
figure 27:2 10:7,17 11:13 fourth 33:10 34:21,22 36:10
filed 25:7 43:16 12:24 13:5 full 28:12 29:16 45:25 47:7
harmless 26:21 incorporated J jury 33:11,22,24
47:1 heard 51:8 incorporating JEFFREY 1:15 5:6,13 6:5,10
51:20 24:21 judge 11:22 9:20,25 10:1
39:1 highly 3:12 injury 15:21 judges 32:18 14:10,18,21,25
hinges 18:9 38:11 judgment 3:11 15:3,5 16:5,22
50:22 51:6 inquiry 23:12 4:20,22,24 5:2 17:22 18:4,6
18:24 insofar 32:14 6:14,15,18 23:1,3,7,15,20
I instructions 26:3,8 27:20
13:21
15:1 16:21,22 interest 29:18,20 21:5 22:2 32:7,14 33:4
8:3,4 46:8 36:4,6,10 24:17,18,20 34:10,20,25
10:25 identified 33:3 interpretive 25:9,10,21 37:6,14,17,23
22:15,21 illness 20:11 21:6 27:24 30:5,7 38:24 39:4,14
25:8,18 imagine 16:16 intervening 30:11,13,18,19 39:17,18 40:2
27:13 18:16 26:10 25:15,19 30:21,22,24,25 40:15,16,19
31:16,17 27:3 28:6 intrusion 6:24 31:10,11,13,21 41:4,8,12,18
34:17 immediately invalidate 7:4 32:11,12,24 42:6,7,16,19
36:21 27:11 invents 27:14 33:1 34:9 35:3 42:22 43:3,9
39:5 imply 15:8 invited 38:22 35:5 36:20,25 43:16,24 44:7
44:10,10 importance involves 4:1 42:7,8,19 45:14,18 46:5
45:7 20:19 issue 11:17 43:25 45:21,24 46:9,15,18
46:3,11 important 4:13 12:19,20,25 judgments 4:19 47:12,17,23
47:5,13 12:13 16:3 14:6 23:7 24:5 6:1 30:20 41:5 48:2,6,17 49:5
50:22 18:23 21:3 24:11,24 35:22 judicata 3:24 49:8,14,18
24:23 52:18 35:25 37:18,18 12:14 15:14,23 50:5 51:1,21
imposed 15:4 47:14 48:8 25:11 46:10,21 52:16 53:2,13
33:16 38:4 issued 13:11,15 48:10 Justice's 51:22
39:25 impossibilities 13:18,19 jurisdiction 5:25 51:25
48:17 impossible 23:22 43:7,11 46:7 K
20:4 3:4 10:25 meaning 19:11 39:2 42:8 50:3
17:13 left 28:22 31:19 13:13 15:22 means 4:11 new 3:10 4:3
18:4,6 legal 12:24,25 17:1 20:20 40:21 45:21,24 5:18,19 6:15
22:10 24:25 30:7,12 31:2 mediocre 48:19 7:12 8:13 11:3
27:20 letters 44:14 33:20 38:3,11 48:21,23 11:7,8,18
39:14,17 let's 36:20 42:9 38:15 45:4,23 meet 37:1 12:18 13:21
46:15,18 level 20:19 47:11,20 53:9 meeting 10:4 14:12,14,15,16
48:2,6 life 10:21 11:2 53:14 mental 20:11 14:18,21,23,25
32:5 light's 27:21 20:11 29:6 49:19,23 16:1 17:11,22
limit 7:14 36:13,18 53:4 merits 39:24 17:25 18:12,13
21:23,23 litigate 29:17 34:11 45:18,23 micromanage 25:21,21 26:2
23:9 39:8 40:21 March 1:9 52:25 26:6,12,13,25
34:5,25 litigated 29:6 Martinez-Vill... minimizes 6:24 27:1,1,1,6,24
42:10,23 litigating 29:8 21:24 22:19 minutes 51:2 28:3 30:4,7,11
44:8 litigation 12:2 40:1 44:6 mitigating 17:19 31:20 32:12
48:18 29:9 34:22 Maryland 6:2 18:20 29:6 33:1,16 35:1,1
3:6 29:1 19:3 23:8,16 28:25 29:1,3 moment 10:18 notice 21:16
25:11,24,24 31:18,23 32:13 11:1 25:25 49:21
23:4 24:9 43:5 40:4,18,23 murder 13:17 42:23 44:13,19
looked 23:18 41:7,11,16,21 mushroom
looking 4:9 42:2 43:1,8,13,23 O 2:1 3:1
25:12 lose 16:19 44:15 44:5,12 45:17 N obtains 4:15
27:22 loses 28:5,7 46:9,17,20 N 2:1,1 3:1 occasions 41:22
30:3 33:5 53:21 47:16,19 48:1 nationwide occupies 51:11
46:19 losses 28:13 48:5,9,24 49:7 44:23 offense 12:21,22
48:7 lost 8:5 36:20,22 49:11,17,20 necessarily 13:16 30:9
24:14 47:2 48:25 McCleskey 19:3 necessary 15:8 oh 23:21 32:12
lower 31:20 mean 34:11 needs 3:21 39:4 42:18,21
29:18 part 15:7,9 18:7 52:12 46:19 47:3 52:6,6 53:7
44:2 32:9,11,16 petitioners 48:8 proceedings
34:6 parts 3:14 6:4 44:3,22,25 preserved 53:14 prong 27:9
6:18 8:24 46:3,23 pretending properly 53:14
39:8 party 29:16,17 30:9 33:11,22 prevailed 20:22 property 16:17
43:14,21 35:20 44:25 prevailing 20:12 16:20
50:3 party's 29:19 phases 45:3 prevent 29:12 proposal 21:8,9
Patterson 1:6 piece 13:11,12 previous 41:24 21:13
29:1 penalty 10:11,11 piecemeal 29:9 23:11 26:15,24 proposition
13:3 20:1,14 33:10 place 9:2 16:3 38:4 prosecutor 27:4
23:18 33:22 44:25 47:13 pre-AEDPA prosecutor's
52:3 53:3 45:3 49:16,22 places 5:22,23 39:15 27:3
Penry 27:17 please 3:9 29:4 29:13 35:23 prove 18:18,20
35:15 perfectly 25:20 11:3 12:14 29:15 49:2 provision 4:10
46:1 period 7:16 23:21,21 30:12 51:12 punishment
4:2,4,6,17 52:18 prisoner 4:15 6:20
15:13 23:14,17 24:5 45:6 52:15 17:11,25 20:1
22:11 25:8 30:17,18 Posner 35:18 problem 27:11 20:13 21:12
32:2 30:24,25 36:18 potential 26:13 33:25 34:1 24:3 26:24
36:21,24,24,24 power 7:4,21 36:13 39:18 30:16 32:25
46:13,24 51:12 precedent 36:23 procedurally p.m 53:25
2:4,10 3:7 4:15 precisely 29:10 53:16 Q
8:1,2 read 32:8 36:19 relies 23:10 28:17 S 2:1 3:1
17:16 46:16 relitigating 45:7 resurrects 45:21 Salinger 46:14
20:25 reads 27:4 relitigation 46:6 retrial 22:25 46:17,22,23
28:18 realistic 42:24 51:18 retroactive saying 6:17
31:24,24 43:4 remaining 51:2 23:11 26:6,9 13:20 14:5
33:4 34:9 really 10:8 39:12 remand 35:12 reversed 31:17 16:10,19 19:12
38:2 realm 6:1,3 35:21 52:24 reweighed 33:18 24:4 35:20
40:21 reason 4:4 15:20 53:17 re-empanel 37:6,6 47:21
52:16 16:5 20:12 remanded 32:3 33:21,24 says 5:10 7:9,10
26:23 39:6,20 40:12 36:16 38:15 Richmond 22:8 19:5 20:22
50:24 42:23 46:10,12 40:5 46:22 rid 43:17,19 22:15 23:9
35:21 receive 10:12 46:10,21 47:2 34:19,24 38:13 17:4,7 24:1,8
39:5,9 receives 5:17 47:4,7,12,15 39:3,14 40:4 24:11,13,16
recognize 13:24 48:10,13 40:10,18 41:7 25:1,5 37:6
43:10,10 recognizes 27:11 resentence 30:19 42:21 43:8,13 38:24 39:4
44:1,14 recommendati... 52:4 43:23 44:11,12 42:6 44:7
48:14,24 33:11,25 resentenced 5:4 45:17 47:14,16 47:12,17 53:2
50:19 reconcile 41:19 35:12 47:19 49:7,11 Scalia's 39:18
21:14 redoing 16:11 4:17 9:12 rise 26:14 scheme 8:20
24:5 reduce 52:4,8 22:25 30:4 ROBERTS 3:3 scope 31:15
27:10 reference 4:8 32:4 38:19 7:6 23:7,20 script 27:5
32:20 refers 24:19 46:7 26:3 28:23 second 3:11,18
reimpose 18:11 reserve 28:21 43:3,9 45:14 3:22,22 4:3,10
37:19 18:12 respect 4:11 51:1 53:23 4:11 5:1,4 8:3
40:5 reimposed 15:6 5:25 13:23,24 rose 29:5 8:4 9:2 11:16
41:4,9 reimposes 14:13 14:19,22 15:1 rounds 50:22 15:9,17 17:12
42:10 related 14:1 15:9 16:8,9,11 rule 16:10,13 17:18 18:17,23
46:24 release 52:13 16:14 20:9 21:11,13,18 18:24 19:1,6
49:2 53:3,4 21:7 25:15 22:23 23:6,10 19:11,12,14,18
relevant 4:22 respects 48:11 25:22 26:6,8 19:20 20:25
relics 33:15 29:2 36:18 41:5 21:24 22:12,14
49:9 25:18,19 27:13 result 13:3 rules 22:23 27:14,21,21,25
S
32:11 sentenced 7:7 16:17 51:10 21:21,21 22:5
35:3 13:13,17 sorry 42:14 46:5 statutory 3:13 25:14,17
36:19,24 sentences 52:14 sort 20:19 48:10 14:11 23:4
38:14 sentencing 5:4 48:11 24:9 T
40:7,8 11:5 17:2,17 Sotomayor 46:5 step 8:14,15,16 T 2:1,1
42:13 32:9,10,16 46:9 51:21,25 steps 4:2 take 8:14,15,16
46:24 33:22 45:16 52:3,16 STEVENS 19:21 29:18
50:12,13 46:7 51:20 specifically 33:2 49:14,18 50:5 40:19 44:23
51:12,15 53:6 34:6 38:18 straight 27:19 taken 36:22
separate 9:23 stand 17:25 29:25 talk 10:8
5:10 31:3 44:9 start 13:21,22 strict 51:17 talking 9:4 10:8
7:20,25 separated 10:5 13:23 14:5 stricter 15:23 17:5,8 38:12
22:23 seriatim 12:1 34:21 35:2 study 44:21,21 52:20
51:11 set 3:24 11:21,21 State 3:10 4:5 subject 7:16 talks 51:9
severity 20:10 5:15 6:1,25 11:1 44:15 Taylor 30:16
27:21 showed 44:19 12:15 14:16 18:20 53:24 26:18
42:9 45:8 46:4 18:11,16 20:15 54:1 technical 25:11
45:18,24 shows 44:21 20:22 21:18,19 substance 41:24 tell 20:9 23:23
similar 48:14 24:3,4 25:14 10:18 telling 38:10
27:13 41:5 27:10,13,18 3:19,22 4:4,10 term 21:2 24:25
36:2 situation 25:21 36:9 44:18 19:14 20:25 14:10,12 19:19
5:17 52:17 52:23,24,25 23:17 24:2,6 Texas 27:17
7:3,6,9 situations 26:2 53:6,8,16 25:4 31:10 44:23
26:22 States 1:1,12 36:19 37:11 text 3:20
9:11,16 six 32:21 36:6,11 40:3,8 41:23 textual 8:17,22
10:2,6,12 Slack 21:24 State's 19:15 42:13 44:3 Thank 28:23
11:2,4 22:19 39:13,20 20:13,17 21:8 45:11 46:13 51:1,5 53:23
14:19,22 slight 21:4 21:9,11,13,18 50:12,13 51:13 thing 4:21 7:2,4
15:5,25 smoke 16:16,20 22:11,14 25:22 51:15 7:5,20 9:23
16:23,24 38:11 26:7,12 27:8,9 suggest 4:19 8:1 15:16 16:21,22
30:2,6 38:14 28:20 34:3 supervised 19:7 21:16
solely 10:13 37:6 53:18 52:13 31:12 33:16
33:6 Solicitor 1:17 statistics 44:19 supports 46:16 35:19 39:25
35:11,12 somebody 5:17 statute 7:9 16:2 Suppose 40:16 47:11
38:5 15:15,15 16:18 19:1 21:12 Supreme 1:1,12 things 13:25
46:1 25:17 24:10,23 28:2 sure 9:25 14:1,6 15:6
53:13 somebody's 7:3 37:21 40:3 system 3:13 20:9 22:22,24
32:23
tinker 32:15,15 unclear 25:22 wanted 18:17 18:24 21:5,17
10:7 told 31:19 34:6 7:3 wanting 45:10 work 16:6 32:17
16:12,14 TONY 1:6 underlying 30:9 wants 25:18 41:20
20:11,24 top 21:10 49:17 42:12 53:16,21 works 32:18
24:4 track 14:7 understand 5:13 WARDEN 1:6 worried 43:18
39:14,19 treat 9:1 20:17 21:3 warning 50:4 wouldn't 28:2
43:4,17 treated 6:18,21 47:6 53:17 Washington 1:8 41:14 46:5
53:2 treats 6:3 8:24 understood 9:17 wasn't 14:6 18:7 47:13
17:10,18,21,25 uphold 50:16 49:3 50:8 40:24 41:1,25
50:21 51:19 29:24 35:21 18:25 22:13,16 47:25,25 49:2
23:20,21 20:20 33:18 uses 24:20,24 50:17 50:16
46:18 try 18:18 32:19 37:14,21 Wednesday 1:9 wrong 8:15 24:6
trying 7:14 U.S 5:22 35:18 weigh 34:7 30:14,15 31:3
9:24 27:19 34:18 35:4 weren't 44:9
12:21 two 4:2,19 5:22 we're 10:8 39:24
6:3,18,23 8:22 18:10 32:16,24 whatsoever year 16:18,20,23
20:7,21 8:24 19:20 35:12 38:5 21:19 16:24
21:22,25 20:9,10 29:15 52:5 Wilkinson 53:3 years 7:7,8,10
30:6,19 31:3 versus 30:1,5 win 48:20 7:11,13 32:21
25:2,6 32:5,23 33:16 victim's 50:20 wins 48:22 32:21 42:11
27:5,14 34:2,8 37:22 view 41:5 51:19 45:3 52:4,8
28:21 41:22 45:3,3 violates 16:19 witness 35:1,1 yesterday 29:14
35:16 46:23 48:18 violation 27:14 witnesses 17:22 39:7
49:2 51:5 17:25 0
37:1,9 two-step 3:20 won 9:24 28:13 09-158 1:4 3:4
39:23 type 52:6 wait 24:1 31:11 47:21
32:7,7,7,7 Wong 48:25 1
45:5 U waive 13:5 49:2
50:20 unable 28:6 word 5:9,21,24 44:3
52:22 unanimous 21:21,21 22:5 8:22 16:4 21:4
33:11 35:14 24:7,10,20,24 52:8
17:13,14 words 7:14 9:2 101 35:18
unavailable 29:25 31:22 13:18 15:1
44:17 106 30:7
14:13 5
1:13 3:2 5 44:4
53:25 50 45:25
44:22 51 2:10 44:21
42:9 52 44:21
21:10 22:11 527 35:19
44:24
50:17 6
49:22 6 44:4
12:8 13:12
7
25:7 29:7 7 44:4
11:1 13:15 70 44:24
29:7
29:8
4:14 5:3 7:10
7:11 8:15 52:4
3:15 5:12 7:8 52:8
44:3 81 13:18
84 25:7
1:9 86 13:19,20,21
3:14 4:7
21:15
9 44:13
22:23
4:8
3:20 7:20
36:18
37:24
7:25
32:2
15:13
1:9
2:7
2:4 42:23 44:3
35:19
52:6
7:13 42:23
44:18
