IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
J.D.B., :
Petitioner : No. 09-11121
v. :
NORTH CAROLINA :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 23, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:14 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
BARBARA S. BLACKMAN, ESQ., Durham, North Carolina; on
behalf of Petitioner.
ROY COOPER, ESQ., Attorney General, Raleigh, North
Carolina; on behalf of Respondent.
ERIC J. FEIGIN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
BARBARA S. BLACKMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ROY COOPER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ERIC J. FEIGIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as
amicus curiae, supporting Respondent 44
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
BARBARA S. BLACKMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:14 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 09-11121, J.D.B. v. North
Carolina.
Ms. Blackman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BARBARA S. BLACKMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. BLACKMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
J.D.B. was only 13 years old when he was
taken out of his middle school classroom and escorted to
a closed door interrogation conducted by outside law
enforcement regarding a matter that did not take place
on school property. He was isolated from his family who
had already demonstrated an interest in this
investigation and sought to shield him from the police.
He was not advised that he was free to leave or free not
to answer questions until he had already incriminated
himself.
The restrictions on J.D.B.'s freedom of
movement which existed because of his youth were
heightened by the manner in which this officer chose to
conduct this interrogation and the expected deference to
authority figures categorically characteristic of
children were taken advantage of by the manner in which
this officer chose to conduct the interrogation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Blackman, I'm -- I'm --
I'm not clear on what you are proposing. Is there to be
one different Miranda requirement rule for all minors,
or is there to be one for, what, 20-year-olds,
19-year-olds, 18-year-olds, 17, 16? This one is 13, do
we calibrate it that finely -
MS. BLACKMAN: Justice -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- or do we just say, you
know, what would a minor -- I don't know, a general
minor regard as restrictions upon his departure?
MS. BLACKMAN: Justice Scalia, what we are
proposing is that the test be a court may consider age
in determining whether a reasonable person in the
juvenile -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that.
MS. BLACKMAN: So we are not -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you mean 15, 14, 13,
13 1/2? Right?
MS. BLACKMAN: We did not suggest that it be
calibrated by age, although in State court jurisdictions
many of them are and are not finding that a difficult
test to perform.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not -- if not
calibrated by age, how is it to be calibrated?
MS. BLACKMAN: It is to be the exercise of
reasonable judgment by the judge taking into account
common sense -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Common sense?
MS. BLACKMAN: -- community experience is
one.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and -- and how -
how is the law enforcement officer going into the
confrontation going to know whether a judge is going to
be applying a 15-year-old rule, a 13-year-old rule, or
whatever?
MS. BLACKMAN: Clearly in the jurisdiction
in which he practices he should be aware of the fact
that a court utilizes that type of -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think that's clear?
MS. BLACKMAN: But we're not suggesting that
that be done. What a court is examining is -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why isn't this all
subsumed under the voluntariness rule?
MS. BLACKMAN: As this Court has frequently
recognized, the voluntariness inquiry is more difficult
for courts to perform than the Miranda custody one. And
you have also recognized that the court -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, at least it's the
court performing it, not the interrogating officer, as
Justice Scalia's questions point out.
MS. BLACKMAN: The police officer plays a
role in the voluntariness, also. And the police officer
must be assessing whether the circumstances may be
giving rise to an involuntary confession. Age -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about mental
deficiency, if -- if age should be one of the factors,
deciding whether the individual regarded himself as in
custody or not, why shouldn't mental deficiency be so as
well? Is there any -- any basis in principle for not --
I mean, once you do this, don't you, in effect, say that
it is a subjective inquiry whether the particular
individual regarded him or herself as being in custody;
isn't that the -- the basis of what you're arguing?
MS. BLACKMAN: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No? Why is age different
from mental deficiency, for example?
MS. BLACKMAN: Age is different because,
number one, it involves restrictions on freedom of
movement, so the circumstances of the interrogation are
going to be understood and interpreted differently by a
child than it would be by an adult.
Secondly, we're talking about cognitive
differences which exist between children and adults
which affects their perception and understanding.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You could say both of those
things about the mentally deficient. They may regard
themselves as -- as unfree to leave, and they have
cognitive deficiencies.
MS. BLACKMAN: As far as I know, there
hasn't been the recognition in the law that there is, as
to children, that proves such as the mentally
handicapped are unable to -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what about this test
which comes from three cases, the first being Berkemer,
the second Stansbury, and the third I'll tell you in a
second? It is that those -- what are -- in considering
a reasonable person for this purpose and avoiding
subjective states of mind, you would look at objective
circumstances, known to both the officer and the suspect
that are likely relevant to the way a person would
understand his situation. All right?
So both would be both mental illness and age
and -- I don't know, whether you speak English, and a
lot of other things would be relevant, provided they are
things that are relevant to how a person would
understand his situation and are known to both the
officer and the individual.
The third case, of course, is my dissent in
Alvarez.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: But nothing in the majority
conflicts with that, that I can see, except the holding.
I thought I lost the case, but apparently it's up again,
so I don't see why that isn't a perfectly good test.
But if you're not going to support it, then I've got no
support.
MS. BLACKMAN: Well, we're simply making the
point that there's not necessarily going to be a
floodgate opening. And we haven't seen that -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, but I mean what
Justice Scalia was really asking is, do you favor
something like this test that I read, which is open as
to circumstance? Anything could fit in that blank, as
long as both policemen and the -- and the individual
know it and it is relevant as to how he understands the
circumstance, whether he's likely free to go or not.
MS. BLACKMAN: Conceptually absolutely.
JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you. Yes, that's
right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even -- even if you said
no, you're pushing us there, because there's no basis
for treating a childhood any differently from these
other factors. So basically you're saying Justice
Breyer would call it objective circumstances. You know,
whether you're mentally deficient, I would call that the
subjective condition of the -- of the person being held
in custody. And I think, I don't think that's what we
meant by the phrase "objective circumstances."
But you want objective circumstances to
include the character of the person being held in
custody, whether he's mentally deficient, whether he's
schizophrenic, known to the police, you know, whatever
factors, right? Those are all objective circumstances?
MS. BLACKMAN: Your Honor, what we are
talking about are a complex of characteristics which are
unique to children, and that's what we are examining in
this case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Blackman, what is
complex about a juvenile investigator? That's what this
police officer was. So he's investigating a juvenile
for juvenile justice purposes, and I think there's
hardly anything more objective than that. This case has
child written all over it. It's investigator who deals
with children. The first proceedings is going to be a
juvenile proceeding.
How can you not take that into account,
whatever -- whatever these other factors may involve?
But here it seems to me so rampant because this police
officer dealt only with juveniles, and he investigated
juveniles.
MS. BLACKMAN: I agree completely. This
officer was assigned the case because it had already
been determined that a juvenile was involved. This is
the population that he deals with on a daily basis. He
certainly has a basis on which to assess how J.D.B.'s
youth was factoring into this interrogation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And then is it your point
that he has to do something more than the read the
standard Miranda warning? Suppose he read the standard
Miranda warning? End of case as far as you're
concerned?
MS. BLACKMAN: Obviously his age would
factor into whether there was a valid waiver. But, yes,
he has got to Mirandize or otherwise J.D.B. -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but doesn't it
follow from there that we have to have a -- we have to
change the warning?
MS. BLACKMAN: Not necessarily. I mean,
some children will not understand Miranda warnings, just
as some adults don't understand Miranda warnings. But
children are nonetheless -- have to be given the
opportunity to be told of their rights, so that they can
at least have the opportunity to make an informed
decision.
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you asking trial judges
to make -- to do something that is realistic? Do you
think -- let's take a hypothetical trial judge who,
let's say, is 60 years old and has an IQ of -- that's at
least an average IQ. And now you're asking this trial
judge to decide whether under particular circumstances,
let's say, a 14-year-old with an IQ of 85 would
appreciate under particular circumstances that he or she
was free to leave?
MS. BLACKMAN: Your Honor -
JUSTICE ALITO: You think a trial judge can
really do that?
MS. BLACKMAN: State courts have been
performing this analysis now for several decades, and
they haven't indicated that they have difficulty doing
so. And to the extent that your -
JUSTICE ALITO: They must have greater
imaginative powers then.
MS. BLACKMAN: What?
JUSTICE ALITO: They must have greater
imaginative powers than I think I would have under those
circumstances.
MS. BLACKMAN: Part of your question -
JUSTICE ALITO: When you take a particular
set of circumstances, and the judge would say, if I were
13, I would not understand that I could go. However, if
I were 15, I would understand I could go.
MS. BLACKMAN: Your Honor -
JUSTICE ALITO: Can you slice it like that?
MS. BLACKMAN: What we are talking about
here is relative youngness and relative oldness. I
mean, the empirical data demonstrates to us that the
older a child is to an adult, the more adult-like they
are. The younger, the farther away they are from that
adult standard -
JUSTICE SCALIA: We need empirical data for
that?
MS. BLACKMAN: Excuse me?
JUSTICE SCALIA: We need empirical data for
that?
MS. BLACKMAN: Empirical data does exist.
JUSTICE SCALIA: To show that -
MS. BLACKMAN: I'm simply pointing that out.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the closer to adulthood
a child is, the more like an adult he is?
(Laughter.)
MS. BLACKMAN: I'm simply pointing out that
the empirical data supports that. There are bases of
knowledge from which -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do we need either
imaginative powers or empirical data to know that when a
13-year-old is brought into a room in his school, taken
out of class, four people are there, two are police
officers, one is assistant principal, threatened with
custody, that that person is not going to feel free to
take off and leave?
MS. BLACKMAN: We do not. I'm simply
pointing out that there is a basis of knowledge from
which courts as well as police officers can make the
required assessment. It is so clear in this case,
however -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, sympathetic cases can
make bad law. So take the same set of facts and let's
hypothesize that this is a 15-year-old. Would the
15-year-old appreciate that he could go? Or make him
16. Or make him a street-wise 17-year-old.
MS. BLACKMAN: A judge should be able to
consider that, and under the clear circumstances of this
case, it is unlikely that a -
JUSTICE SCALIA: When the policeman sees
him, he's dressed in baggy jeans, you know, down around
his thighs, and when the judge sees him he's wearing a
Buster Brown jumper suit. You don't really think that
it's going to be equivalent?
MS. BLACKMAN: I'm not sure I understood the
question.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The whole point -
MS. BLACKMAN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The whole point of
the Miranda rule, I thought, was to provide clear,
objective guidelines about what the police are supposed
to do. And it seems to me that one of the difficulties
with your rule, however clear it may seem in this case,
but it does have to apply more broadly, is that that's
off the table, and now they're not only going to have to
know, does this person understand it, but they're going
to have to know, it's not every one of these situations
that's going to be in school. They're going to have to
guess how old the person is.
And there are differences. Some
15-year-olds know a lot more than some 17-year-olds, and
so on. And -- and the facts that you're concerned about
all go into the voluntariness inquiry, which is still
pertinent after Miranda. Why don't we just put those
facts into that inquiry and say, look, we've got one
strict rule; everybody knows it, you hear it on TV all
the time, people are given Miranda warnings; that part
of it is done?
MS. BLACKMAN: It doesn't change the rule
itself. I mean, the rule itself remains: All objective
circumstances relevant to the custody determination must
be considered.
What it's doing is taking this out of the
reasonable adult standard, which by default is the only
one, then, that can be used, and so it's not going to be
muddying the waters in the sense that it is something
needed in order to promote accurate fact-finding.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would it be -- is it
enough if the officers in this situation said, look,
you're free to leave, you know, whenever you want,
but -- and then goes on -- or do they have to think -
now, maybe -- maybe a 13-year-old really doesn't think
that's true, or maybe a 13-year-old really doesn't feel
that he can leave if he's got the vice principal there
and they want to talk.
MS. BLACKMAN: I mean, that is an objective
circumstance that occurs in the course of an
interrogation which is very weighty in determining if
custody occurs. Here -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm thinking it
would not even be enough if they told the 13-year-old,
look, you can leave, but I want to ask you some
questions. And the principal is there, and he thinks,
well, you know -- maybe the 13-year-old is thinking,
maybe I'm going to get in trouble if I leave.
MS. BLACKMAN: It involves all of the
circumstances which are arising during the course of
these interrogations, but certainly advising someone
that they are free to leave and advising them that they
are free not to answer questions is almost half of the
Miranda warning, and it is giving the child -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if the parent tells
them not to leave? What if the parent says, you go and
talk to this police officer? If you did something
wrong, I want them to know about it; talk to the
officer.
MS. BLACKMAN: Whether that would factor in
depends, I think, upon whether they're acting as an
agent of the police, because what we're looking at is -
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no. They're not an
agent; they're acting as a parent.
MS. BLACKMAN: Oh. What we're examining is
whether we've got a police-dominated environment and
coercion in the situation and circumstances under which
the child evaluates the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are you answering my
question?
MS. BLACKMAN: No, I'm not. Obviously, the
specific factors that occur in the course of any
interrogation will be considered, but our focus here is
upon what the police officer must do.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would be one relevant
factor that would be considered was that nobody called
the parents?
MS. BLACKMAN: It is relevant in this
situation, because -- by North Carolina law. Because a
custodial interrogation was occurring, there was a
requirement that a parent or guardian be present.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is that relevant
to the Miranda inquiry? It might be relevant to the
voluntariness inquiry, but I don't see whether you call
the parents or not. Part of his Miranda -- your Miranda
right is not to have your parents called.
MS. BLACKMAN: What I understood the
question was: Was it relevant that a parent was not
contacted? In this particular situation, yes, because
that was going to create an independent basis on which
the statement wasn't going to be admitted, and is than
additional reason why -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Independent of what?
MS. BLACKMAN: Independent of Miranda.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, right. That's
my whole point.
MS. BLACKMAN: But that is an additional
reason why police officers need to be aware of what the
age is of a child that they are interrogating because of
independent obligations arising out of State statutes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So is your answer to
Justice Ginsburg that, no, the fact that a parent was
not notified is not relevant to the Miranda question?
It may be relevant to the voluntariness question.
MS. BLACKMAN: No, I believe it remains
relevant to the Miranda question, because -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The question really is if
he is in custody. And maybe there's something different
about being in the room with a juvenile police
investigator and the assistant principal and being in
that same room with your parents there.
MS. BLACKMAN: That is correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, so it's not just
that they have to call the parent; they have to wait for
the parent to show up?
MS. BLACKMAN: Because of State statutory
requirements, here they were. Obviously, not every
State has that kind of requirement. In this particular
situation, there was a requirement of parental presence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's not -- that's
not pertinent to the Federal law question on the Miranda
warnings.
MS. BLACKMAN: I understand that, but I'm
just explaining that independent bases may arise for
which an officer has to be aware of the age. And given
that, we're not imposing additional burdens. These are
things that police officers have to be considering.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if the age of the
person being questioned is unclear?
MS. BLACKMAN: If the interrogation is
occurring under circumstances where the officer should
have known, then I think the burden remains with the
officer to consider this, and that could arise from -
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose -- suppose the
person shows an ID and it shows the person is 19 years
old, and the officer looks at him and says, he looks
like a pretty young 19-year-old?
MS. BLACKMAN: If there is no way to verify
the information that the child is giving, then the
officer accepts the ID as being the age of the person he
is interrogating.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if -- I mean, under my
example, what if the child -- what if the person looks
like a minor but has an adult ID?
MS. BLACKMAN: I think that if -
JUSTICE ALITO: Does the officer have an
obligation to look behind that?
MS. BLACKMAN: Um -
JUSTICE ALITO: Or the other way around?
The person says, I'm 15, and the officer sees that this
person has a pretty heavy beard and -
MS. BLACKMAN: The officer has to proceed on
the basis of his observations. I mean, objective
circumstances are things that are readily apparent.
There can be circumstances which tell the officer that,
in fact, he is dealing with a child, either the setting,
the appearance, the contact of parents, and so on.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there a good faith -
MS. BLACKMAN: But if there -- if there is
no reasonable basis upon which the officer could discern
that this is a child, if he has no reason to know, then
the rule that we are asking to be put into effect would
not apply.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does a good faith mistake
make it okay? If, you know, the officer, in good faith,
believes that it's not a minor and -- and proceeds
accordingly?
MS. BLACKMAN: Yes. I mean, what we would
be assessing is: Are the circumstances clear such that
the officer should have known? And if they simply could
not ascertain it, then the rule that we're asking for
would not apply.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The way you phrase the
question, you say, may the trial -- whether trial courts
may consider the juvenile's age in Miranda to make the
in-custody Miranda determination.
Did you really mean "may," so it's
discretionary with each judge, whether a juvenile's age
is relevant to the in-custody analysis?
MS. BLACKMAN: No, it is must. As with any
objective circumstance, the court has to take it into
account, and we can't be relegating some to a
discretionary review and others to mandatory review.
So, yes, if a child is involved in the case, then a
court must take that into account -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So -
MS. BLACKMAN: -- in determining if there's
custody.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- are you saying, going
back to the hypotheticals that some of my colleagues
posed, police officer comes across an individual, looks
older or looks younger, doesn't know, and just engages
that person and says come over here and let's talk for a
second. Is the officer required to ask the age?
MS. BLACKMAN: It's a simple enough matter,
but no. But I think if the person -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if they're not
required -
MS. BLACKMAN: -- as a Terry stop, where
Miranda is not coming into play at all -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Perhaps not, but it's -
if it's outside a school, school corner. No reasonable
suspicion, just says come over here, kid. Is he
supposed to ask the age to see if he's 19 or 18 or 17?
MS. BLACKMAN: We're not in a custodial
interrogation setting, I think in your question, and so
Miranda is not coming into play at all, but I mean, this
is a matter -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It is, because it's a
stop with no reasonable suspicion. And the kid comes
over, and the officer stands him there and continues to
talk to him for half an hour.
MS. BLACKMAN: If there is a custodial -- if
we have restraint on freedom of movement which is rising
to the degree of a formal arrest, it's a simple enough
matter to ask.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why don't we go back
to the test that Justice Breyer suggested, which would
answer many of the hypotheticals here, that the
objective fact is what is known to both?
MS. BLACKMAN: What is known to both.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That way you don't get
into what the 13-year-old is thinking inside himself or
not, because that then becomes subjective; you don't go
back to what others might think are special
characteristics or subjective characteristics. You go
to what's known, what's an objective factor known to
both.
MS. BLACKMAN: Yes. But I think that we
can't be encouraging willful blindness, either; and so,
you know, if an officer encounters someone at a facility
where only children would be, for example, like an
elementary school or a juvenile detention facility -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think that's clear,
but that's different. I mean, you can tell the
difference between a 9-year-old, I think, and an adult
generally.
MS. BLACKMAN: Indeed.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And I'm hard pressed to
think that anyone would believe that if you took a
9-year-old out of his classroom and the assistant
principal walked him into a room and said these guys
want to talk to you, that that 9-year-old would think
he's free to leave.
MS. BLACKMAN: I agree.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right. So objectively
that's a fact known to everyone, that it's a 9-year-old.
MS. BLACKMAN: Correct. Correct. I did -
there have been a lot of questions that sort of
presupposed that we are doing a subjective inquiry, and
I think nothing could be farther from the case. What we
are not doing -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I guess part of my problem
is it's just in some respects hard to put the Miranda in
the context of a -- let's say a 13-year-old alone. It
may be that Miranda warnings, "You have a right to
remain silent, anything you say can be used against you"
-- might terrify the kid just to hear about it. I'm
just wondering how the Miranda warning works here
anyway. The school is in loco parentis, it has certain
-- it has obligations and privileges with respect to the
student.
MS. BLACKMAN: Well, Miranda is the only
procedure to date that anyone uses, and constitutionally
they are -- everyone is entitled to some advisement so
that they can make an informed choice. I mean, whether
there should be a more simplified or different Miranda
warning for children is an issue for another day, but we
can't simply say we're not going to do anything. We are
not going to tell these children that they don't have to
cooperate with the State in building a case against
themselves.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could I go back to an
earlier question? Is it your argument that age is the
only objective individual characteristic of the person
being questioned that must be taken into account, or are
there other objective characteristics of people being
questioned who -- that fall into the same category?
MS. BLACKMAN: I think that one's status as
an inmate, for example, can be characterized as
objective, and certainly that has been taken into
account because inmates share that same baseline
restriction on freedom of movement that children do, and
so this court in -- Shafter -- for example,
characterized it as what would the reasonable person in
the inmate's position have understood as to his freedom
of movement. So, yes, I mean, there can be other
objective circumstances individual to the person, but
we're still not answering a subjective -
JUSTICE ALITO: But what are they? I don't
want to use up your rebuttal time, but what -- what are
they in addition to age? For people who are not
institutionalized or in school or in an environment like
that? What falls into the same category as age?
MS. BLACKMAN: I think that's for other
litigants to press upon this Court upon proper records
with input from experts as to whether it relates to the
special susceptibilities of children, how cognitively
different they are which is affecting their perception
and judgment of what's going on about them, and those
are questions for another day.
If there are no other questions, I would
like to reserve my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General Cooper.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. ROY COOPER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. COOPER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In determining custody for Miranda purposes,
this Court has considered only the external surrounding
circumstances of the question and not the attributes
that affect the mental processes of the person being
questioned. Age fundamentally changes the reasonable
person test, makes it complex, makes it more illogical,
with no logical stopping point for adding other
characteristics, as Justice Breyer -
JUSTICE BREYER: You would add none? No
others? No other characteristics?
MR. COOPER: This Court has not said -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I mean here.
MR. COOPER: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: There's a big sign jail
cell, the door is unlocked. When you want to leave,
leave. Is he in custody?
MR. COOPER: Well, Your Honor, I think you
have to look at the obvious circumstances.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is he in custody? It's a
jail cell, but a big sign, "Go ahead, leave, go when you
want." Is he free to leave?
MR. COOPER: I think he may be, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, so do I.
MR. COOPER: If that's how you want -
JUSTICE BREYER: I'll just tell you one
other circumstance.
MR. COOPER: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: He only speaks Spanish.
MR. COOPER: Well, Your Honor, I think it
affects -
JUSTICE BREYER: Ukrainian is the only thing
he speaks. Now are you willing to take that into
account?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, I am willing to
take that into account.
JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you. Now, I'll say
another fact. Exactly the same, except there are very
steep steps and he's in a wheelchair. Are you willing
to take that into account?
MR. COOPER: I am willing to take that into
account.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Then why aren't you
willing to take into account an ambiguous situation as
was true in Alvarado, a tough situation where it's
pretty unclear; he was brought there by his parents and
there are all these things around that might suggest to
a 20-year-old, yeah, you could leave, but to a
12-year-old, "no." If the judge can take into account
whether he's in a wheelchair, whether he just speaks
Ukrainian, whether in fact a thing -- you have to swim
through a pool and he doesn't know how to swim -- I
mean, all kinds of things like that; why can't he take
into account in a proper situation before he thinks he's
in custody or not, things they both know including
whether he's 8 years old or 22?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, because those are
obvious circumstances that everyone agrees -
JUSTICE BREYER: And it's obvious whether
he's 8-year-old or 2 2, too. I'll tell you that.
MR. COOPER: The problem is, Your Honor, you
have to think like an 8-year-old or think like a
15-year-old in order to determine the situation.
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. And you have to
think like a Ukrainian speaker or think like a -- a -- a
-- like a person who knows he's in a wheelchair before
you know he can't get up those steep steps.
MR. COOPER: I think the difference -
JUSTICE BREYER: What is exactly the -- the
difference?
MR. COOPER: The difference is with the
Ukrainian is that you look at whether the knowledge was
actually acquired. And if he speaks Ukrainian, then
everyone knows that the -- that the knowledge was not
acquired. People understand that someone who has a
seeing eye dog, if you take him out of the room, then
you have exerted coercion over the situation. I think
that's different from requiring the officer to get into
the mind of the reasonable 15-year-old or 16-year-old.
JUSTICE BREYER: I haven't said that. What
the opinion said, which unfortunately may mean nothing
unless it's promoted to the status of majority, is you
look to those factors that are relevant to, known to
both policeman and the suspect, and are known to be
relevant to the likelihood that a person -- a likely
person, not him -- that are known likely relevant to an
ordinary person's belief -- this kind of a person -
that he thinks he's free to go.
MR. COOPER: I think -
JUSTICE BREYER: That's all. What's wrong
with that?
MR. COOPER: I think that's right, Your
Honor, and age -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if it's right, then
you -
MR. COOPER: Well, no, age is an objective
fact, but what -- what they're asking us to do is to use
age in a way where you're having to figure out what a -
what that person would think. And they're using age as
an overgeneralization for compliance. There are lots of
groups that would be naturally more compliant. Mentally
challenged people, seniors in rest homes, there are all
kinds of people who would be more compliant, but
compliance doesn't necessarily equal coercion.
JUSTICE BREYER: You know the sentence I'm
referring to in my dissent, presumably? We hope. When
I have set forth the test which was not accepted.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Some people don't -- some
people don't read the sentence. He may not have read
it.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm -- I live always in
hope.
MR. COOPER: I'm aware of it. It was a very
well worded dissent.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I mean, the thing
about known to both and relevant to a likely belief as
to whether he's in custody or not. Now, are you willing
to accept that as a proper statement of the law?
MR. COOPER: I'm willing to accept that,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Fine.
MR. COOPER: I am.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then, perfect.
MR. COOPER: But I don't think it includes
age in the way they want to use it in this particular
situation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What do you mean by use
it in this situation? This is a middle -- middle
school. This is an officer who deals only with
children. I can't imagine any setting where age isn't
more apparent than when dealing with an assistant
principal, a juvenile investigator, going -- deciding -
the juvenile investigator deciding the place where he
wants to conduct this is in a middle school. I mean,
just as a matter of common sense, how can you say that
we're going to have the same test for this 8-year-old as
we would for the 30-year-old?
MR. COOPER: Well, Your Honor, the officer
may not know the age, but if he does, in this situation
he did, and -- and if the officer is in a middle school,
there is still a problem with having to figure out what
his actions and how they -- what they are and how they
affect a juvenile of a particular age.
In the situation of the 8-year-old it may
seem intuitively wrong, but the issue is, is you have to
get into the mind of the 8-year-old, makes it very
difficult as a practical matter. The officer's going to
have voluntariness problems. If the officer would read
Miranda, the officer is going to have waiver problems.
Officers have, in those situations,
incentive to read Miranda, to get a parent. In -- in -
in this type of situation the officer went there, it -
it was a familiar location to this juvenile, it was a
situation where he knew three of the people in the room,
the officer asked him if he wanted to answer questions,
and he said yes, the interview was relatively short.
The juvenile left at the end of the
interview, which is -- which is relevant, and I think in
this situation if -- if you -- if you look at it
broadly, it's very difficult for officers to tell age
and to tell how age affects the situation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He probably couldn't leave
the classroom, either, could he, the classroom where he
was studying?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, he probably could
not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So the -- the additional
coercive effect of not being able to leave probably
didn't make a whole lot of difference. He knew he was
stuck where his parents had put him, in the school. And
if the school sent him to a classroom, he had to be in
the classroom; and if the school sent him to a place
where he could, if he wished, voluntarily speak to the
police officers, he had to be there.
MR. COOPER: Well, I think that's right,
Your Honor. I think you look at the school setting and
I think you look at -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And we look at what is
the normal school setting just like we looked at the
normal business settings, he's in class, all the
children are around him. This seventh grader was
marched by the school security officer, taken away from
his peers, from his class in -- put in a room with a
closed door with the assistant principal. That is not a
normal part of the school day. That's not where he is
required to be. This is -
MR. COOPER: Well, Your Honor, I think
feeling free to leave somewhere is not the entire test
for custody. There has to be a restraint on freedom to
the degree associated with the arrest, and I think
that's pretty clear from the Berkemer case -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you say associated
with a reasonable man, and when we construct the
reasonable man, you're asking me to think of a
25-year-old sitting in a seventh grade social -- social
studies class.
MR. COOPER: Well, Your Honor, I think a
reasonable -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's a little hard for
me to imagine.
MR. COOPER: Well, a -- a reasonable person
is one of ordinary reason and intelligence who knows
what custody looks like, essentially, and is informed by
45 years of case law. If you have someone who is very
young, but if you have someone without any other kind of
disability, the voluntariness test is there. It -- it
considers age significantly in determining whether a
statement -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me, haven't we
repeatedly said that it's going to be very difficult for
a defendant to show that his confession wasn't
involuntary if there was no Miranda violation? Isn't
the entire purpose of Miranda and its requirement
because there was a belief that it wasn't -- that
voluntariness wasn't enough -- was not good enough
because it was such a high bar, to secure the privilege
against self-incrimination?
MR. COOPER: Well, Your Honor, I agree with
that, but the voluntariness test was complex because you
did consider so many factors. So the Court lifted the
Miranda test out of the voluntariness test, made it an
objective test, a prophylactic one, clearly a different
test -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That doesn't answer my
question. If we've said if you're not in custody, it's
going to be nearly impossible for you to show that your
statement was involuntary, are you now accepting that
with respect to age a 9-year-old may not feel free to
leave as opposed to a 13 or 14-year-old, that somehow we
should instruct the courts that age really needs to be
stepped up in the voluntariness test?
MR. COOPER: Well, Your Honor, in -- in
voluntariness, you don't necessarily have to have
custody to prove that a statement is involuntary, and of
children who are particularly young, that will come into
play significantly. I think you don't have to get into
turning Miranda upside down in order -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So are you happy with
the rule that says, no, not in the objective Miranda
test, but, yes, age should be elevated as a prime
consideration in the voluntariness test?
MR. COOPER: Justice Sotomayor, I think it
is already a significant factor in the voluntariness
test, and I think particularly for young children, I
think you're going to see that continue to occur.
JUSTICE KAGAN: General Cooper, I'm not sure
how I understand or that I understand how this would be
turning Miranda upside down. Miranda is already an
incredibly complicated test about when those warnings
need to be given, all right. So there are all manner of
circumstances which go into the determination of whether
a person would feel free to learn -- leave, whether a
person would feel as though he were in custody, a
thousand things, how many people are in the room, how
long the interrogation is, where the interrogation is,
the particular circumstances of the interrogation.
So, this is not a bright line test, and all
that we would be doing here would be adding an
additional objective factor to an already multifaceted
inquiry.
MR. COOPER: Justice Kagan, admittedly
sometimes Miranda has gray areas, because you do look at
a combination of factors, but it's informed with 45
years of case law. And officers now have a pretty good
idea as to what combination of factors constitute
custody for Miranda purposes.
What age does is now we're going to have to
go back in and reassess all of those combination of
factors through the eyes of a 13, 14, 15-year-old,
16-year-old, it's going to be case law that's going to
take -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why? Why is that? We've
seen two cases that seem like blue moon, once in a blue
moon. Alvarado is a odd set of circumstances. And what
is the terrible thing, the awful thing that has to
happen if the officer isn't sure whether this individual
thinks he's in custody or not? Suppose the officer just
isn't sure. What terrible thing happens?
MR. COOPER: Well, Your Honor -
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the answer to that
question?
MR. COOPER: You over Mirandize. You
Mirandize when it's not necessary.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, well, you over
Mirandize. The terrible thing that happens is you have
to give them a Miranda warning.
Now -- now, that is the terrible thing.
Now -- now -- now, why is that a burden on the criminal
justice system that sometimes in ambiguous circumstances
or because this kid is very young, he might not
understand it quite as well, and the officer sees that,
the kid sees it, and so the officer has to give him a
Miranda warning.
MR. COOPER: Your Honor -
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, what happens to
destroy the criminal justice system? You can see from
my overstatement, I tend to suspect nothing, but you
tell me.
MR. COOPER: A lot. School resource
officers, there are thousands of them, they are -- they
are licensed, but police officers -- uniform police
officers who often counsel kids as well as protect the
school. Under the Petitioner's theory, a school
resource officer who is going to take a juvenile into a
room to talk about a stolen cell phone or bullying, the
first thing that he's got to say is you have the right
to remain silent.
Now, that, in my opinion, disrupts the
communication.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why not the first thing,
hey, kid, we're here talking, but you want to leave,
just open the door and leave. Go. Nobody's keeping you
here. Why isn't that the first thing, if he's really
free to go?
MR. COOPER: Well, he may not want him to
go, number one.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, oh, oh, I see, I see.
(Laughter.)
MR. COOPER: Well, you know, you want to
talk -- you want to talk to the kid. If you have a
traffic stop, you don't want to immediately tell the
15-year-old driver, you're free to leave, because he's
not. It's just like Berkemer.
JUSTICE BREYER: He's not free to leave?
Okay. Well, then, why not warn him?
MR. COOPER: Well, no, because that's a
Berkemer situation, a traffic stop. And it didn't -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: For search purposes, is
age consciousness required? Remember, a part of this is
the police officer then goes to the boy's home. The
police officer is trained to deal with juveniles. And
he says to the boy, you can't consent to the search
because you're a seventh-grader. I will have to get a
warrant. So please stay here until I get a warrant.
If he can't -- if he's not treated like an
adult for purposes of the search, if you get the
warrant, if the police need a warrant because they're
dealing with a seventh-grader, why should it be
different for in custody for Miranda purposes?
MR. COOPER: Well, Your Honor, I think when
you're dealing with voluntariness, when you're dealing
with consent to search, when you're dealing with waiver,
you're looking at the particular juvenile. You're
looking at all of the circumstances. The courts have
said that the Miranda test is different -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought all the police
officer was looking at when he said "I have to get a
warrant" is that he's dealing with a seventh-grader, not
all the circumstances. Very simple: Age.
MR. COOPER: Well, it might -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He's under the age of
consent.
MR. COOPER: It might have been, in this
circumstance, that he didn't own the house. It was the
grandmother who actually owned the house as to why he
needed -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He can't consent to a
contract. He -
MR. COOPER: And, Your Honor, you are right.
There are other categorical prohibitions on age across
the board in our law, but here what we're doing is
asking officers to assess each situation based on the
particular age of a juvenile, which makes it all the
more difficult for the officer.
You know, say for example that you're at a
Terry stop and there are a number of juvenile-looking
people there. Let's say they're 15 to 19, but the
officer doesn't know it. He's at the Terry stop. He's
going to be faced with, potentially, Mirandizing some of
the people there and not -- not others. That's going to
put law enforcement in an untenable situation and make
it very complex for them as to when they read Miranda
and they don't. And I think in addition to -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Counsel, do you agree with
the solicitor general's view that a blind person should
be treated as a blind person for -- for these purposes?
MR. COOPER: I think I do, Your Honor,
because -
JUSTICE KAGAN: And a deaf person should be
treated as a deaf person for these purposes?
MR. COOPER: It's an obvious external
circumstance.
JUSTICE KAGAN: As is youth. As is youth,
an obvious external circumstance that this boy was 13
years old.
MR. COOPER: But you don't have to get into
the mind of the blind person or the deaf person. The
only issue is whether they have acquired the knowledge
in order to be able to put it into the -
JUSTICE KAGAN: You know, I don't agree with
that. You are trying to understand this situation as
the blind person would have seen it or as the deaf
person would have seen it or as the 13-year-old would
have seen it, and I don't understand why it's different.
MR. COOPER: Well, Your Honor, I think it's
different because it has to do with something that is
obvious. It is not necessarily obvious how a 13- or
14-year-old would view the situation. And just in
the -- the Alvarado opinion, the opinion says that
sometimes the permissible objective facts and
impermissible subjective opinions sometimes merge.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The blind person doesn't
have a different mind.
MR. COOPER: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The deaf person doesn't
have a different mind. He just has less data, and it's
easy to take account of less data; easier to take
account of less data than it is to take account of how
different one's mind is because he's 16 instead of 13 or
whatever. That's the difference between the blind and
the deaf, isn't it?
MR. COOPER: I think you're absolutely -
absolutely right, and yes, too, Your Honor. I think
it's important to know that we have already started
going down the slippery slope in a number of states.
There have been 11 states, contrary to Petitioner's
brief, that are considering other characteristics in
Miranda, such as sophistication, such as education, such
as intelligence. That makes it so much more difficult.
And this Court has not hesitated -- it did
not hesitate in Alvarado; it did not hesitate in
Berkemer -- to correct lower courts, to say we've got to
make sure that Miranda is complete, that Miranda stays
clear and objective, and that we don't blur the lines.
JUSTICE ALITO: If the law goes down that
route, then one of the chief advantages of the Miranda
rule, which is that it's a relatively simple objective
test, is eliminated, and the law of Miranda begins to
resemble the law of voluntariness. And maybe at that
point, there is no longer a strong argument in favor of
Miranda, and the voluntariness test will be the sole
test.
MR. COOPER: We support Miranda, Your Honor.
We support Miranda in its current form. We think it's
appropriate, but I think clearly, by adding age into the
circumstance, it makes it more complicated.
Your Honor, I would -- Justices, I would
request that the North Carolina Supreme Court decision
be upheld.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Feigin.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC J. FEIGIN,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MR. FEIGIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
There are three primary reasons why age
should not be a factor in the Miranda custody test. I
think the most important one is this: The only
statements that are going to be suppressed under
Petitioner's rule that wouldn't already be suppressed by
existing doctrine are statements that, first of all, the
prosecution has -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm sorry. I just -- the
only statements that could be suppressed -- I just
didn't hear.
MR. FEIGIN: The only statements that are
going to be suppressed under Petitioner's rule that
would take age into account that aren't already going to
be suppressed under existing constitutional doctrines
are statements that, first of all, the prosecution has
carried its burden to prove are voluntary under a
voluntariness test that already takes age into account,
and second of all, are given under circumstances that
don't otherwise meet the definition of custody; that is,
formal arrest or its functional equivalent.
I think that's a relatively small and not a
particularly problematic category of statements, and I
don't think it's worth complicating the Miranda rule in
order to make sure that those statements are suppressed.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why? Maybe you can explain
this to me, too.
You have a blind person there. Everyone -
you don't know how blind. He's somewhat blind. A deaf
person. How hard of hearing? We're not sure. So the
policeman goes a little overboard. You are free to
leave, or shows it to him, or makes sure he gets it in.
Okay? Why is that so tough to do where you also have a
12-year-old? If he really is free to leave, just make
clear that he knows it.
MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, I think the
critical difference between blindness, deafness, and
other sensory disabilities and age is what Justice
Scalia said a few minutes ago, which is, in the case of
a blind or deaf person, you can try to figure out what
the circumstances surrounding the interrogation that are
observable to that person are, and then -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But that's all we're doing
with the young person. And in fact, most of us, many of
us, have a great deal more experience understanding the
world through the eyes of a young person or children,
perhaps, than understanding the eyes -- the world
through the eyes of a severely sensory deprived person.
We're asking the exact same thing in both
contexts: What is this person -- what is this -- what
do the objective circumstances appear to a person in
this situation?
MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, I don't think
you're doing the same thing, and I think it's easier to
put yourself in the mindset of a person with a sensory
deprivation than a person of a particular age, and let
me explain why.
For a person with a sensory deprivation,
like in Justice Breyer's example, the sign that someone
can't read, I think it's very common and easy for
officers and courts to figure out how they would react
to the situation if the sign simply weren't there.
With age, what you're asking perhaps a
45-year-old officer to do, in Justice Alito's example,
or a 60-year-old judge to do, is to put them into the
frame of mind of a person that they haven't been for 32
years or 45 years, and I don't think that's a very easy
inquiry to ask officers or courts to make.
I think this is really going to complicate
the Miranda rule by asking them, A, to do that, and, B,
because there are going to be many cases, unlike this
case, where it's not going to be apparent to the officer
what age the suspect is.
One thing that comes up fairly commonly in
many jurisdictions is that an officer will stop someone
on a -- do a traffic stop of someone on the road; the
person will claim not to have their ID, and it will turn
out the person is 14 and they will give the name and
birth date of an older sibling. And there is simply no
way for an officer in those circumstances to know what
the age of the suspect is.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Limit it to when the age
is known. If we limit it to, this is an officer who not
only knows he's dealing with a seventh-grader but he
decides the venue for the questioning is going to be a
room in the school, that's -- it's not a mystery. It's
not a guess. He knows he's dealing with a
seventh-grader. He sets it up.
Are we to ignore what the investigating
officer knows? The investigating officer knows he's
dealing with a child.
MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, I think there
are sort of two parts to your question. Let me deal
first with the rule that would only apply when officers
know the identity, know the age of the suspect. I think
that rule would be easier to apply than the rule the
Petitioners are suggesting and would mitigate some of
the damage, but first of all it doesn't solve the
critical problem of asking officers who aren't
themselves 13 to think like someone who is 13; and
second of all, I think for reasons that I think were
apparent during the argument by my friend on the other
side, that rule might easily devolve into a "should have
known" test, and officers simply aren't going to be able
to deal with that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The officer doesn't have to
think like a 13-year-old, he has to think the way a
60-year-old judge would think a 13-year-old thought,
right?
(Laughter.)
MR. FEIGIN: That's right, Your Honor, and
it may depend what -- which particular 60-year-old
judge -
JUSTICE BREYER: But that isn't -- to me,
anyway, that is not the question. I don't think anybody
is asking anybody to think like anything else. All it
is, when you face a younger child, and he is free to go,
and you mean he's free to go, you just sort of err a
little bit on the safe side and make sure he understands
it. That's all. Nobody has to think like anybody. All
they have to think is let's err somewhat on the safe
side. Now why is that tough?
MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, I think that
the main problem here is that it's going to create more
confusion for officers because it's another factor they
have to put into the test, and it's -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What's the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why don't we require
Miranda always?
MR. FEIGIN: The courts -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there any harm in
requiring it always? It's always easy to do. Why don't
we require it all the time? Can you tell us why it
makes a difference?
MR. FEIGIN: I think it's very unrealistic
that every time an officer opens their mouth they have
to give Miranda warnings, and I think it would
fundamentally change the nature of police interactions
with the public. The Court -- and the other reason the
Court has never required it is that voluntary
statements, the Court made clear in two cases last term
again, Maryland v. Jasper, and Berkeley v. Thompkins,
are a good thing, and there -- voluntary confessions are
a good thing, they're very helpful for law enforcement.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Feigin -
MR. FEIGIN: And there's no reason to -
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry.
MR. FEIGIN: Please.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think that a 00 a
person with Down's syndrome, that that should be taken
into account in this inquiry?
MR. FEIGIN: I'm not sure how that would be
taken into account, Your Honor. To the extent that
someone with Down's syndrome thinks differently from
someone who doesn't have Down's syndrome, I think that
would be very relevant to the voluntariness test but
would not be relevant to the custody test. Because it's
-- again it's going to be very difficult to ask an
officer to put themselves in the mindset of someone who
has Down's syndrome. I think the -- the third
problem -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how is that different
than blindness or hearing? A person with Down's
syndrome, many -- some don't -- show characteristics
that they're not capable of comprehension, or not
capable of absorbing information.
MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They barely look at you,
they barely -- you know, there are characteristics that
show you a lack of absorption of information.
MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor, I may have
difficulty dealing with this particular hypothetical
because of my lack of knowledge of the particular
symptoms of Down's syndrome; but if you're dealing with
a suspect who simply can't absorb information about the
world, then that's going to be a sensory deprivation
that's going to be taken into account, because it's
going to subtract circumstances away that that suspect
can't perceive. But if you're asking about the mindset
of someone that has a particular sensory disability,
then no, I don't think that would be taken into account
because it's asking too much of officers to try to put
themselves in that mindset.
And the third problem, I think, with
factoring age into the custody test is that -- and as I
think Petitioners effectively conceded, it creates a
slippery slope problem. There really isn't a clear
distinction between age and other things such as mental
disorders or cultural background, that defendants also
argue change whether they believe that they've been
subject to a formal arrest or its functional equivalent.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We don't want Miranda
warnings to be given where they are unnecessary because
they are only necessary to prevent coercion, and where
there's no coercion, we want confessions, don't we? And
the Miranda warnings deter confessions.
MR. FEIGIN: That's right, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that the basic
reason?
MR. FEIGIN: That's right, Your Honor,
and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it's not cost-free to
require Miranda warnings.
MR. FEIGIN: That's right -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a good thing to have
the bad guys confess that they're bad guys, right?
MR. FEIGIN: That's right, Your Honor,
that's what I was trying to say earlier.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Before you -- you are so
quick to answer that's right, isn't it so that the
manual that this very officer was given to use said
before you question a child, give Miranda warnings?
MR. FEIGIN: Yes, it did, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Apparently the people who
train these juvenile officers think it's a good thing,
not a bad thing to give a Miranda warning.
MR. FEIGIN: Well, one reason they may think
it's a good thing and one reason I think the Court
doesn't need to accept Petitioner's rule here, is that
officers often will give Miranda warnings, for precisely
the reasons Justice Sotomayor was suggesting earlier,
which is that when officers do give Miranda warnings,
it's going to be -- and those Miranda -- the Miranda
procedures are all validly followed, there's not going
to be a real robust voluntariness inquiry because in
most cases where the Miranda procedures are followed,
the statements are going to be found to be voluntary
under the voluntariness test.
And if I could actually add answer an answer
to Justice Scalia's earlier question, Miranda isn't
simply concerned with coercion. The Court made very
clear in Oregon v. Mathiason that Miranda isn't
attempting capture every quote, unquote, "coercive
environment." What Miranda is directed at is a specific
environment -- thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish your
sentence.
MR. FEIGIN: Specific environment, namely
custody, which is defined as a formal arrest or its
functional equivalent. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Blackman, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BARBARA S. BLACKMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. BLACKMAN: I think what's very odd in
this case is that the only party that didn't consider
J.D.B.'s age was the courts. I mean, it was clearly
being taken into account by Officer DiCostanzo, and
J.D.B. was fully aware of his own age. And under
Thompson v. Keohane, what a reviewing court is supposed
to be doing is immersing itself in the actual
circumstances of the case; and without this
consideration of age, then the courts are examining
hypothetical, because -- hypothetical interrogations and
not the one that was actually occurring in the case.
Officers have to make judgments about every
objective circumstance that arises, and asking them to
make objective determinations on juvenile status is no
different and is not going to muddy the water. I think
as Justice Kagan pointed out, custody is a very
difficult issue. It's not subject to bright line rules.
But we can't be defining it in such a way where we are
requiring these children to be someone that they never
could be, and that is, reasonable adults.
If our goal here is to ensure reliability of
factfinding, reliability of statements, if we want to
reduce the coercion, to which our citizens are entitled,
then this rule needs to be put into play, and we ask
that the North Carolina Supreme Court decision be
reversed. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:12 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
48:12 adult-like 12:9 ambiguous 28:6 arising 16:4 18:4bar 35:4
55:7 advantages amicus 1:21 2:11 45:4 51:24 2:3,13 3:7 54:1
43:1 advised 3:18 analysis 11:15 ascertain 20:25 based 40:25
age 4:14,22 5:1 37:18 52:18 46:7,21 47:3 basis 6:11,15
25:5 25:3,21,23 48:24 49:3 assessing 6:5 begins 43:16
27:21,23 26:18 30:5,8,10 anyway 24:14 20:23 behalf 1:16,18
30:11 31:13,18 48:23 assessment 1:21 2:4,7,10
32:2,6,23,24 apparent 20:8 13:11 2:14 3:8 26:11
45:1 50:9 34:20 35:16,18 31:19 47:5 assigned 10:4 44:6 54:2
51:10,14 36:3 37:5 39:17 48:10 assistant 1:19 belief 29:24 31:4
40:12,14,23 apparently 8:5 13:5 18:14 35:2
42:1 45:21 46:14,21 appearance associated 34:3 believes 20:20
43:23 agree 10:3 23:24 48:4 average 11:6 birth 47:12
agrees 28:20 appreciate 11:9 aware 5:14 18:2 Blackman 1:15
19:5 33:5 ALITO 11:2,12 appropriate awful 37:13 4:3,9,13,18,21
11:18,21,25 43:23 a.m 1:13 3:2 5:2,6,13,17,21
argue 51:23 B 8:9,19 9:11,15
25:2,19 arguing 6:15 B 47:3 10:3,14,20
argument 1:12 back 21:19 22:21 11:11,14,20,24
15:6
23:15
42:12 43:18 44:5 51:22 13:18 14:1,5
16:3,14 burden 19:11 character 9:7 26:16 27:6 common 5:4,5
17:7 38:1 44:25 characteristic 28:20 36:14,19 31:23 46:18
18:1,9 burdens 19:5 3:25 25:4 37:12 38:2 40:7 commonly 47:7
19:2,9 business 33:18 characteristics 40:12 45:2,24 communication
20:2,6 Buster 13:24 9:12 23:5,5 46:9 47:13 38:22
21:9 25:6 26:21,23 51:11 54:10 community 5:6
22:3,9 C 43:5 50:22 51:2 citizens 54:25 complete 43:11
23:8 C 2:1 3:1 characterized claim 47:10 completely 10:3
24:2 calibrate 4:8 25:9,14 class 13:4 33:18 complex 9:12,16
25:8,24 calibrated 4:22 chief 3:3,9 14:4,6 33:21 34:9 26:19 35:7
54:1,3 5:1,1 15:10,22 17:11 classroom 3:12 41:10
called 17:5,15 26:12 43:14 clear 4:4 5:16 compliant 30:13
capable 50:23,24 44:3,8 53:19,24 13:11,19 14:7 30:15
50:21 Carolina 1:6,15 child 6:23 9:20 23:13 34:4 complicated
9:1 21:13 24:5,25 children 4:1 6:25 closed 3:13 Conceptually
26:21,22 34:4,17 37:2,8 7:8 9:13,21 33:22 8:19
27:2,7,11 45:22 47:5 54:4 10:21,23 23:11 closer 12:20 concerned 10:13
54:10,13 55:5,6 24:22,24 25:12 coercion 16:21 14:19 53:14
29:1,6 cases 7:11 13:13 26:2 31:18 29:14 30:16 condition 9:3
30:2,6,17 37:11 47:4 33:19 35:23 52:2,3 53:14 conduct 3:24 4:2
31:3,9,11 49:24 53:9 36:7 46:4 54:21 54:25 31:22
categorical choice 24:20 coercive 33:6 conducted 3:13
39:5,12 40:23 chose 3:23 4:2 53:16 confess 52:14
48:22 categorically circumstance cognitive 6:24 confession 6:6
cell 27:3,8 38:18 43:24 54:15 combination 37:1 conflicts 8:4
certainly 10:7 6:5,21 7:16 9:1 come 21:22 22:7 5:10
challenged 30:14 11:23 12:1 comes 7:11 consciousness
19:12 cost-free 52:10 34:3 34:23 41:2 43:7
35:8 54:4 counsel 26:8 D demonstrated 50:16 54:19
54:11 44:3 53:24 55:4 daily 10:6 demonstrates difficulty 11:16
26:15 15:19 16:4 17:1 data 12:8,12,15 Department 1:20 directed 53:17
43:5 4:14,22 5:15,18 42:19,20,21 depend 48:20 disability 34:19
26:24 35:8 43:8 deaf 41:17,18,25 deprived 46:6 21:7,12
49:24 53:1,14 45:12,23 detention 23:12 disrupts 38:21
criminal 38:1,9 decades 11:15 devolve 48:11 door 3:13 27:3
critical 45:20 decide 11:7 DiCostanzo 54:6 33:22 38:25
48:7 decides 47:18 difference 23:15 Down's 50:8,12
29:5 cultural 51:22 deciding 6:9 29:5,7,8 33:7 50:13,18,21
30:1,4,8 curiae 1:21 2:11 31:20,21 42:23 45:20 51:7
44:6 decision 11:1 49:17 dressed 13:22
33:3,13,25 current 43:22 44:1 55:2 differences 6:25 driver 39:10
35:6 custodial 17:9 default 15:6 14:17 Durham 1:15
36:5,9,24 22:9,17 defendant 34:24 different 4:5 6:17 D.C 1:8,20
38:7 custody 5:23 defendants 6:19 18:12
39:3,7,14 6:10,14 9:4,8 51:22 23:14 24:21 E
13:6 15:3,21 deference 3:24 26:3 29:15 E 2:1 3:1,1
18:12 21:17 deficiencies 7:5 35:10 40:2,8 earlier 25:3
26:14 27:4,7 deficiency 6:8,10 42:7,9,16,19 52:16 53:4,13
28:17 31:5 34:2 6:18 42:22 50:20 easier 42:20
42:17 50:15 51:18 defining 54:20 difficult 4:23 46:25 49:15
9:13 16:19 29:20 35:8 37:1 formal 22:19 14:24 19:4
33:1 19:22 23:11 14:22 42:13 forth 30:19 giving 6:6 16:8
46:17,22 fairly 47:7 four 13:4 go 8:18 12:2,3
exerted 29:14 familiar 32:16 15:12 16:6,7 27:8,8 29:25
exist 6:25 12:17 family 3:15 23:23 27:9 36:14 37:6
existing 44:15,23 farther 12:10 35:16 36:15 48:25 49:1
experience 5:6 favor 8:13 43:18 45:14,17 48:25 goes 15:13 39:18
5:9 41:9 experts 26:1 feel 13:6 15:15 freedom 3:21 going 5:9,10,10
explain 45:9 35:16 36:15,16 6:20 22:18 6:22 8:7,10
41:19,22 49:6,13,18 50:3 51:24 53:23 31:20,24 32:10
25:22 eyes 37:7 46:4,5 51:4 52:5,8,12 26:18 49:21 35:14 36:8 37:5
46:6 52:15,21,25 37:8,8 38:17
51:24 face 48:25 45:23 46:19 GEN 26:10 47:2,4,5,18
faced 41:7 figures 3:25 general 1:17,20 48:12 49:7
fact 5:14 18:6 Fine 31:9 generally 23:16 51:11 53:6,7,10
factfinding 54:24 38:19,23 39:1 21:2 31:15 37:2 50:1,2
51:18 followed 53:7,9 47:11 49:20 gray 36:25
hour 22:16 information investigator 9:16 13:21 14:4,6
13:15 informed 10:25 involuntary 6:6 17:11,22,24
38:8 I inquiry 5:22 6:13 in-custody 21:5,8 23:1,13,18,25
45:13 idea 37:3 36:23 47:1 50:9 issue 24:22 32:8 26:25 27:2,7,11
44:19 illness 7:19 institutionalized J 29:17 30:2,6,17
imaginative instruct 35:18 jail 27:2,8 31:11,15 32:25
12:4 27:1 incentive 32:14 22:10 36:18,18 jurisdiction 5:13 48:14,22 49:10
include 9:7 36:19 45:24 jurisdictions 4:22 49:11,14 50:3,5
30:5 includes 31:12 interrogations 47:8 50:7,20 51:1,25
32:1 33:3 including 28:17 16:5 54:12 justice 1:20 3:3,9 52:6,10,13,17
34:10 incredibly 36:12 interview 32:19 4:3,9,10,13,17 52:22 53:4,13
37:17 incriminated 32:21 4:19,25 5:5,8 53:19,24 54:18
40:3,22 3:19 intuitively 32:8 5:16,19,25 6:2 55:4
42:8 43:1 independent investigated 6:7,17 7:2,10 Justices 43:25
45:19 17:19,22,23 8:3,12,13,20
47:13 48:3,3 lifted 35:8 Mathiason 53:15 24:21 26:14
18:13 51:2 likelihood 29:22 matter 1:11 3:14 32:12,14 34:25
31:20,21 knowledge 12:25 limit 47:15,16 21:24 22:12,20 35:1,9,25 36:2
13:9 29:9,11 line 36:20 54:19 31:23 32:10 36:11,11,25
40:6 41:1 42:1 51:6 lines 43:12 55:7 37:4,24 38:6
54:16 known 7:16,23 litigants 25:25 mean 4:19 6:12 40:2,8 41:10
22:24,25 23:6,6 49:2 15:2,18 19:21 43:16,19,21,22
47:16 48:12 loco 24:14 24:20 25:16 52:4,11,20,24
10:7,16 29:3,11 34:15 long 8:16 36:18 29:18 31:3,15 53:15,17
45:18 47:17,20 longer 43:18 31:22 49:1 54:5 Mirandize 10:16
look 7:15 14:22 meant 9:5 37:20,21,23
41:12,17 lack 51:3,6 32:22 33:14,15 7:19 26:17 mitigate 48:5
42:3 46:1 Laughter 8:2 33:16 36:25 51:21 moon 37:11,12
54:18 12:22 14:3 51:1 mentally 7:3,8 mouth 49:19
10:9,17 law 3:13 5:9 7:7 40:6,7,10 middle 3:12 25:12,16
34:5,12 13:14 17:8 looks 19:15,15 31:16,16,22 muddy 54:17
18:25 31:6 19:22 21:20,21 32:3 muddying 15:8
39:8 43:13,16,17 lot 7:21 14:18 42:16,19,22 mystery 47:19
leave 3:18 7:4 lower 43:10 50:17 51:12,16 N 2:1,1 3:1
15:12,16,24 M 19:23 20:20 naturally 30:13
7:6,20 28:10 32:25 29:19 53:25 necessarily 8:10
9:1,9 13:2 33:6 34:1 35:17 making 8:9 Miranda 4:5 10:20 30:16
14:13,14 36:15 38:24,25 man 34:6,7 5:23 10:11,12 35:21 42:10
15:12 39:10,12 45:15 mandatory 21:12 10:21,22 14:7 necessary 37:21
20:15 45:17 manner 3:23 4:1 14:21,24 16:8 52:2
21:21 left 32:20 36:13 17:12,14,14,23 need 12:12,15
28:14,17 let's 11:4,5,8 manual 52:19 18:7,10,25 21:4 13:1 18:2 36:13
30:17 32:2 13:14 21:22 March 1:9 21:5 22:4,11 39:25 53:2
41:3,6 24:9 41:5 49:4 marched 33:20 needed 15:9
7:24 9:17 10:1 38:21 42:12,12 peers 33:21 38:16 43:4
19:15,19,25 10:24,25 29:12 30:14,15 phrase 9:5 21:2
22:15 23:10 3:7 26:10 44:5 52:22 play 22:4,11
17:8 44:1 32:1,3,11,12 35:25 42:2 45:8 perception 7:1 plays 6:3
32:15,18 33:20 ordinary 29:24 26:3 please 3:10
41:4 43:3 40:10 41:2,6 outside 3:13 22:6 perform 4:24 point 6:2 8:10
47:5,8,13 overboard 45:14 5:23 10:9 14:4,6
54:6 38:10 42:13 pointing 12:19
15:2,18 officers 13:5,10 owned 40:18 person 4:15 7:14 12:23 13:9
21:10 15:11 18:2 19:6 7:17,22 9:3,7 police 3:17 6:3,4
23:6 25:4 32:13,23 33:12 P 13:6 14:13,16 9:9,17,25 13:4
30:8 37:2 38:13,14 P 3:1 19:8,14,14,19 13:10 14:8
36:2,22 38:15 40:25 PAGE 2:2 19:22 20:4,5 16:11,16 17:3
43:12,15 46:19 47:1 48:2 parent 16:9,10 21:22,25 25:4 18:2,13 19:6
54:15,16 48:7,12 49:8 16:18 17:10,17 25:14,17 26:17 21:20 33:12
oh 16:19 18:17 parentis 24:14 41:13,14,17,18 policeman 13:21
okay 20:19 28:5 17:15 18:15 42:15,18 45:11 policemen 8:16
old 3:11 11:5 part 11:24 14:24 46:2,4,6,8,9,13 16:20
41:19 28:18 41:23 33:23 39:17 47:10,11 50:8 population 10:6
42:10,10 older 12:9 21:21 particular 6:13 50:21 posed 21:20
18:21 oldness 12:7 18:22 31:13 pertinent 14:21 potentially 41:7
54:13 open 8:14 38:25 48:20 51:5,6,13 2:4,14 3:8 54:2 practical 32:10
6:1,3,4 7:16 party 54:4
protect 38:15 Raleigh 1:17 relegating 21:11 34:2
44:25 react 46:19 7:22 8:17 15:3 restrictions 3:21
34:4 37:2 provide 14:7 10:11 30:21,21 17:17 18:7,8,10 reversed 55:3
18:14 purposes 9:18 realistic 11:3 54:24 17:24 23:25
31:20 26:14 37:4 really 8:13 11:13 remain 24:11 24:10 29:1 30:4
39:16,24 40:2 13:24 15:14,15 38:20 30:6 33:13
41:9 42:2 46:13reason 17:21 39:17 rights 10:24
32:4 48:7 50:17 51:15 34:15 49:22 request 44:1 rising 22:18
50:19 55:1 50:4 52:7,25 require 49:11,16 road 47:9
p.m 55:6 53:1 52:11 ROBERTS 3:3
question 11:24 20:14 22:6,14 33:24 39:17 18:5,17,24 26:8
18:11,25 21:3 34:14 54:22 17:10 18:22,23 robust 53:8
questioning recognized 5:22 reserve 26:7 route 43:14
31:6 24:3 26:5,6 referring 30:18 35:16 5:20 14:7,10,23
45:7 Secondly 6:24 sibling 47:12 43:6 stays 43:11
48:2,4,4 secure 35:4 side 48:11 49:2,5 sorry 44:17 50:5 steep 28:1 29:4
53:2 55:1 security 33:20 sign 27:2,8 46:17 sort 24:3 48:1 stepped 35:19
36:8 38:9 significant 36:6 Sotomayor 21:15 stolen 38:18
10:7 seen 8:11 37:11 silent 24:11 23:18,25 34:22 47:8,9
42:5,6,7 38:20 35:12 36:1,5 stopping 26:20
self-incriminat... 43:15 Spanish 27:16 strict 14:23
21:22 22:7 seniors 30:14 simply 8:9 12:19 speaker 29:2 stuck 33:8
39:20 sense 5:4,5 15:8 12:23 13:8 speaks 27:16,20 student 24:16
31:23 20:24 24:23 28:12 29:10 studies 34:9
5:5 46:6,13,16 51:9 48:12 51:8 specific 17:1 subject 51:24
6:7,17 51:13 53:14 53:17,21 54:19
8:13,22 sent 33:9,10 sitting 34:8 standard 10:11 subjective 6:13
sentence 30:17 situation 7:18,23 10:11 12:11 7:15 9:3 23:3,5
16:9,17 30:21 53:20 15:11 16:21 15:6 24:4 25:18
20:12,18 set 12:1 13:14 17:8,18 18:23 stands 22:15 42:14
32:25 30:19 37:12 28:6,7,16,25 Stansbury 7:12 submitted 55:5,7
42:15,18 sets 47:21 29:14 31:14,16 started 43:2 subsumed 5:20
48:14 setting 20:10 32:2,7,15,17 State 4:22 11:14 subtract 51:11
51:25 22:10 31:18 32:22,24 39:15 18:4,20,22 suggest 4:21
33:14,17 40:25 41:9 42:4 24:25 28:9
seventh 33:19 situations 14:14 31:6 34:21 suggesting 5:17
seventh-grader slice 12:5 statements suit 13:24
14:15 22:6 47:17,21 51:20 44:24 45:6,8 43:21,22
23:12 severely 46:6 slope 43:3 51:20 49:24 53:10 supporting 1:22
25:22 Shafter 25:13 small 45:5 54:24 2:11 44:7
32:3 share 25:11 social 34:8,8 states 1:1,12,21 supports 12:24
shield 3:17 sole 43:19 2:10 7:15 43:3 suppose 10:11
short 32:19 solicitor 1:19 43:4 44:6 19:13,13 37:15
show 12:18 18:19 41:13 status 25:8 29:19 supposed 14:8
34:24 35:14 solve 48:6 54:16 22:8 54:8
40:5 shows 19:14,14 49:4 statutory 18:20 44:13,14,18,21
45:2 48:9
55:2 12:6 38:24 9:18 11:4,12,22 time 14:24 25:20 unfortunately
43:11 23:14 24:24 16:15 19:11,24 told 10:24 15:23 unfree 7:4
49:2 27:13 28:22 21:25 22:10 tough 28:7 45:16 uniform 38:14
32:23,24 38:11 23:4,8,13,15 49:5 unique 9:13
45:24 tells 16:9 25:8,24 27:5,10 47:9 2:10 44:6
term 49:24 29:2,2,5,14 trained 39:19 unnecessary
38:10 37:23,25 32:21 33:13,14 41:14,18 unquote 53:16
48:3 terrify 24:12 33:15,25 34:3,7 treating 8:24 unrealistic 49:18
Terry 22:3 41:4 34:10 35:24 trial 11:2,4,6,12 untenable 41:9
test 4:14,24 7:10 41:11,15 42:8 trouble 16:2 upside 35:25
31:24 34:1,19 45:5,7,19 46:11 trying 42:4 52:16 31:13,15 52:19
36:12,20 40:8 48:9,9,15,15 36:11
43:16,19,20 48:16,23,24 TV 14:23 V
49:9 50:7,13,18 48:1 49:24 49:25 53:15
13:7,14 53:18,23,24 16:1 23:2 28:13 29:2,9,10 verify 19:17
27:20 55:3,4 thinks 15:25 Um 20:2 vice 15:16
28:2,3,6 theory 38:16 28:16 29:25 unable 7:9 view 41:13 42:11
29:13 thighs 13:23 37:15 50:12 unclear 19:8 28:8 violation 34:25
38:17 thing 27:19 28:13 third 7:12,25 understand 4:17 voluntarily 33:11
31:3 37:13,13 50:18 51:17 7:18,23 10:21 voluntariness
37:16,23,25 Thompkins 10:22 12:2,3 5:20,22 6:4
25:5,10 46:7,12 47:7 Thompson 54:8 29:12 36:10,10 18:8 32:11
50:8,11 50:1,2 52:13,23 thought 8:5 14:7 38:4 42:4,7 34:19 35:3,7,9
54:6 52:24 53:1 40:9 48:16 understanding 35:19,21 36:4,6
21:22 28:15,17 36:17 threatened 13:5 8:17 49:2 53:11
23:22 51:21 three 7:11 32:17 understood 6:22 voluntary 44:25
39:8,8 14:1 17:16 49:23 50:1
we're 5:17 6:24 0 41:5 23:20,22 24:1
16:16,19 00 50:7 19-year-old 35:16
1:4 3:4
40:5 38:24 40:24 1/2 4:20 2
16:12 16:20 35:13 12-year-old 28:10
25:20 37:10 43:10 28:11 45:17 20-year-olds 4:6
31:13 wheelchair 28:1 12:12 55:6 2011 1:9
39:3,7,8 28:12 29:3 13 3:11 4:7,19,20 22 28:18
51:25 52:3 willful 23:9 12:2 35:17 37:7 23 1:9
willing 27:20,22 41:22 42:10,22 25-year-old 34:8
16:8 works 24:13 24:9 42:6 48:15 30-year-old
37:24 world 46:4,5 51:9 48:16 31:25
52:24 worth 45:7 14 4:19 37:7 32 46:24
14:24 written 9:20 14-year-old 11:8
24:10 44 2:11
49:20 32:8 15 4:19 12:3 20:4
46:25
45-year-old
X 15-year-old 5:11
28:25
40:11 29:16 37:7 5
54 2:14
yeah 27:11 28:10 15-year-olds
35:2,3 19:14 28:18 16 4:7 13:17 60 11:5
21:2 23:1 34:18 35:23 17 4:7 22:8 8
31:13 36:7 38:3 46:2 17-year-old 8 28:18
48:15 46:4 13:17 8-year-old 28:22
younger 12:10 17-year-olds 28:24 31:24
19:14 22:8
