IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
WILLIE GENE DAVIS, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-11328
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, March 21, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ORIN S. KERR, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ORIN S. KERR, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 23
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ORIN S. KERR, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 46
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 09-11328, Davis v.
United States.
Mr. Kerr.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORIN S. KERR
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KERR: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
This case raises the intersection of two
similar doctrines of the same vintage that point in
exactly opposite directions: The first, retroactivity;
and the second, the good faith exception. This Court
should reverse and hold that the good faith exception
does not apply to reliance on precedent, and instead,
that should be governed by the retroactivity principles
of Griffith v. Kentucky.
I think it's helpful to start with
Linkletter v. Walker, the 1965 decision that introduced
the concept of retroactivity. Linkletter held that
Mapp v. Ohio, which had held that the exclusionary rule
applied to State violations of the Fourth Amendment, is
not retroactive. The Linkletter decision was premised
on a simple syllogism: The exclusionary rule is about
deterrence; a decision that postdates a search cannot
deter the police; and therefore, the exclusionary rule
should not be available in cases before Mapp.
Linkletter's syllogism is the same syllogism
that the Court is attempting -- that, sorry, the
government is attempting to rely on in this case.
History has shown that that syllogism is powerful in the
context of collateral review and habeas corpus
proceedings, but it should not apply on direct review.
It should not apply on direct review for two
basic reasons. First, because on direct review the
first case must be treated like other cases on direct
review, the exclusionary rule must be available in order
to protect the adversary process and avoid advisory
opinions, which -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. You lose me in
the argument because it doesn't seem to me that we -- if
we did apply the good faith rule, we would be denying
retroactive effect to the altered judgment. It
continues to apply to matters beforehand, but it's a
totally different question whether, assuming it is
retroactive, the good faith exception to the
exclusionary rule applies. It's a -- it's a separate
question from retroactivity, it seems to me.
MR. KERR: I disagree, Justice Scalia.
During the Linkletter period, the scope of the
exclusionary rule for the Fourth Amendment was an
essential concern in a series of retroactivity cases,
Linkletter being the first, Desist v. United States
being the second. There were -- many of the Linkletter
era retroactivity cases were concerned with the Fourth
Amendment exclusionary rule.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, but just to pursue
Justice Scalia's point: The good faith rule is itself a
rule that's intact, that's a precedent, that was on the
books, and the good faith rule qualifies the
exclusionary rule. So why aren't we just following the
good faith rule here?
MR. KERR: The -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, there's nothing
retroactive or prospective about it. It's just -- it's
just applying the existing law.
MR. KERR: I disagree, Justice Kennedy.
It's not applying existing law, because the effect of
what is labeled the good faith exception in this setting
is actually to apply the prior decision; that is, to
have all of the substance and effect of a retroactivity
decision.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's an
application of -- that's a subset, it's one application,
of the good faith rule, which is an overall principle.
But we're being faithful, under the government's view,
it seems to me, to the overall principle.
MR. KERR: I think the Court needs to take
away the labels here. The government is using a label
of good faith for what is essentially a retroactivity
argument.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not a label at all.
You're -- we're not denying the application of the
altered rule to your client's conduct. It applies. But
the question of whether, when it does apply, the good
faith disregard of it by a police officer nonetheless
allows the evidence to be admitted, it's a totally
different -- we're giving full retroactive effect to
the -- to the change in the law.
MR. KERR: At the same time, Justice Scalia,
whatever rule is applied in this case would have to be
the same rule that applies in Gant itself, and without
the incentive of counsel to argue in favor of the change
in the law, that would block claims by defense attorneys
to overturn the precedents of this Court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, Mr. Kerr, our
cases have talked about the deterrence impact on police
conduct. It seems to me you're trying to expand that
notion to cover incentives for defendants, and as I
read -- I guess it's Leon, in footnote 25, it says the
argument that defendants will lose their incentive to
litigate meritorious Fourth Amendment claims as a result
of a good faith exception is -- is unpersuasive.
MR. KERR: Leon, I think, raised a different
setting. It raised the question of reliance on errors
by a magistrate judge, which simply does not implicate
the concerns of retroactivity, which is this Court
changing its interpretation of the Fourth Amendment. I
think that raises a distinct set of principles, as
Justice Harlan recognized in his dissent in Desist and
his separate opinion -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I think our -
our theory on the exclusionary rule across the board,
without regard to the underlying substantive violation,
is that you look to deterrence of police conduct. And
here, I mean -- I mean, you agree the police did nothing
wrong in this case, don't you?
MR. KERR: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So what impact -
why do we want to deter them from doing what's right?
MR. KERR: Because it takes two branches of
government for the exclusionary rule to deter
constitutional violations. The Court has to properly
construe the Fourth Amendment and the police need to
then properly follow the Court's precedents. The Court
can't turn away from the role of this Court's precedents
in the enforcement of the Fourth Amendment.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I understand your
argument with respect to decisions of this Court, and I
think that's your strongest argument, but would you
concede that that argument does not apply when the
precedent on which the police are relying is a decision
of one of the courts of appeals or a State supreme court
Fourth Amendment decision?
In that situation, there will be plenty of
avenues for obtaining review of the correctness of those
decisions; isn't that right?
MR. KERR: Justice Alito, I think it depends
on what the good faith exception is. The government's
brief I think does not exactly articulate what the
standard is that -- to which it would like to apply.
Even so, most Circuit Court decisions
interpreting the Fourth Amendment are derivative of this
Court's decisions interpreting the Fourth Amendment.
And this case is a good example. The facts of this case
are quite similar to the facts of Belton. The Eleventh
Circuit had not actually expanded upon Belton; it had
merely had relatively routine applications of Belton.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, it applied its
understanding of Belton, which turned out to be
different from the understanding of the Arizona Supreme
Court in Gant and the understanding of at least four
members of this Court when Gant got here.
MR. KERR: At the same time, the Eleventh
Circuit's development of the law was -- went no further
than Belton itself, and this Court needs adversaries to
make forthright arguments to this Court which may
involve distinguishing precedent and may involve
overturning precedent.
JUSTICE ALITO: If I could just come back to
my question: Suppose you have a decision in one of the
courts of appeals that says certain conduct is permitted
under the Fourth Amendment, and the police in that
circuit, Federal law enforcement officers in that
circuit, follow that precedent.
Now, is -- will there not be plenty of
opportunities to review the correctness of that decision
because the issue may arise in other circuits where the
matter isn't settled?
MR. KERR: If this Court adopts a good faith
exception that is quite narrow and would not allow an
officer in one circuit to reasonably rely on the clear
circuit court decisions of another circuit, that's
certainly a possibility. However, it's not clear as to
why the Court would adopt such a narrow version of the
exception. The language that the government proposes,
at least, seems to be the language of qualified
immunity; the notion of reasonable reliance on a
decision being believed to be lawful.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kerr, the line that
has been suggested by Justice Scalia and Justice
Kennedy, that is exactly the line that the Eleventh
Circuit took; is it not the case?
I mean, Judge Kravitch said: Yes, the
Fourth Amendment was violated, so to that extent we're
following retroactivity precedent. But the remedy is
something different. That was exactly the line that she
took, wasn't it?
MR. KERR: That's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And on your theory, I
mean, there's another question in this case; that is,
perhaps this evidence would come in under the inventory,
as a -- as a legitimate inventory search, and if the
Court decided that question, then -- then the question
you're arguing, the exclusionary rule question, would
have no practical consequences.
On your theory, the way you reasoned,
shouldn't the Court first decide was this a legitimate
inventory search, and if so, then we never get to any
exclusionary rule question?
MR. KERR: That issue, of course, has not
been briefed in this case. It would remain for the
Eleventh Circuit to apply that in the event the Court
reverses.
At the same time, I wish to be clear that
I'm not arguing that the exclusionary rule is available
in every case when the Court overturns its precedent,
merely that it is a remedy in some cases, and I think
it's actually a necessary cost.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If I could just
follow up on Justice Ginsburg's question. Why did this
defendant have any incentive to bring his constitutional
claim if, as may or may not appear too likely, the
inventory search is going to result in the admission of
the evidence anyway?
It seems that your theory goes too far in
saying that defendants will never have an incentive to
bring a constitutional challenge if there's some other
ground on which the evidence might be admitted, and
that's never been our law.
MR. KERR: I agree that's never been the
Court's law, and I think there's an important
distinction to be made here. The distinction is between
an argument that has a remote chance of success, and
defendants will make those claims, and arguments that
have no chance of success, which is no -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's often -
we do that. We take cases where you can bring a
constitutional challenge or a different challenge all
the time, qualified immunity cases, you know, what was
the law and was it clearly established? Defendants
bring the qualified immunity cases all the time even if
they have a tough case on whether it's clearly
established. Harmless error cases, the underlying
violation, whether it's a harmless error, and the Court
can decide the case on either ground, but that doesn't
keep defendants from bringing the claims.
MR. KERR: But there's a big difference
between a tough case and no case. The difficulty of the
government's claim is the defendant would know any
effort to challenge this Court's precedent cannot
logically lead to any relief. Either the defendant will
lose on the merits, if the Court upholds its precedent
or the defendant will lose under the good faith
exception.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your incentive
argument really only holds up when the ground on the
alternative ground is hopeless? Otherwise we'll expect
the defendants to bring a Fourth Amendment claim because
it's pretty easy to bring.
MR. KERR: Hopeless meaning a zero percent
chance of likelihood. That's the difficulty of the
government's position, is that it -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Kerr, let's say I'm
concerned about the kinds of issues that you're raise,
the incentives on defense counsel and also the oddity of
the Court deciding a case in which it's absolutely not
possible to grant a remedy. Wouldn't the solution to
that be not the rule that you are advocating, but
instead a much more limited rule which said that in that
case the exclusionary rule applied, but not in any other
case, not in any case on direct appeal?
MR. KERR: I think Justice Harlan's answer
to that is persuasive, that it's inconsistent with basic
norms of constitutional adjudication to treat the first
case differently from other cases not on -- other cases
on direct review.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess, Mr. Kerr, I'm not
sure that that's right. Justice Harlan was talking
about constitutional rights at a period where, as the
Chief Justice said, the exclusionary rule was viewed as
part of the constitutional right. But if this Court
doesn't view the exclusionary rule that way any more, if
it views the exclusionary rule as simply a prophylactic
rule which gives a particular defendant a windfall in
order to gain systemic effects, systemic benefits, why
would we do it any more broadly than we would need to do
it? And we would just say: Look, we understand your
point that this would very much change the incentives
for defense counsel. We understand your point that it's
kind of, I don't know, maybe inconsistent with Article
III to take a case in which there was absolutely no
chance of relief being granted, but we can deal with
those issues simply by saying that in your case you get
relief, but not in any other.
MR. KERR: Justice Kagan, that was the
precise premise of the Linkletter regime. The idea of
the exclusionary rule as a judge-created remedy, the
idea of the exclusionary rule as not being a personal
right, that actually was the premise of Linkletter. So
to go back to something that resembles that regime in
substance, even if with a new label. I think is ill
advised in light of the history of the Linkletter era,
and the Court's struggles to try to articulate a
consistent standard that can treat the first case and
other cases similarly.
I think Desist was a Fourth Amendment case,
Peltier also a Fourth Amendment case, Peltier also a
Fourth Amendment case. The government's proposal is
essentially a return to Peltier with a difference. If
the Court wants to treat the first case differently than
later cases, it is essentially recreating Peltier.
JUSTICE ALITO: With respect to the
incentives that you're talking about, is there really
much difference between what would apply in a case like
this and what already applies in cases that fall under
Krull? Suppose Congress enacts a statute that
authorizes a search under particular circumstances, as
it did, as was the case in Almeida-Sanchez. Now, under
Krull nobody is going to be able to, and no one who is
subjected to a search under that statute is going to be
able, to challenge, to obtain suppression, unless you
can say that a reasonable law enforcement officer
couldn't have thought that this statute which was
enacted by Congress and signed by the President was a
correct interpretation of the Fourth Amendment.
Now, maybe there'll be a few cases like
that, but in the great majority, the vast majority of
cases, the person will not be able to mount such a
challenge. So what is the difference between the
situation here and the situation that the Court already
approved in Krull?
MR. KERR: I think there are two
differences. One is that there is a substantial
difference from the standpoint of a defendant or defense
attorney between a remote chance of success in a legal
claim and no chance of success on a legal claim. Krull
leaves open the possibility -- and it may be remote, but
nonetheless a possibility -- of relief if the defendant
can persuade a court that a reasonable officer would
have known in light of this Court's precedent that the
statute allowed unconstitutional searches.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, we could leave that
open here. We could say that there's no good faith
immunity if a reasonable officer couldn't have believed
that a prior decision of this Court was a correct
interpretation of the Fourth Amendment. Maybe that
sounds strange only because we have a higher opinion of
ourselves than we do of the Congress and the President.
MR. KERR: And yet I think your -- your
hypothetical, your suggestion that perhaps the Court
could adopt that standard, shows the difficulty of
trying to craft a good faith exception that ends up
running up against the Linkletter problem. This is
exactly the issue the Court struggled with during the
Linkletter era that Justice Harlan -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Essentially, is your
argument essentially that we should distinguish never,
which would be this case if your position is not right,
and hardly ever. Is that -
MR. KERR: That's correct. Where the rule
is never, defendants are unlikely to make any sort of
claim, and this Court would be denied the opportunity to
review its own precedents, and that's an essential role
of this Court's decisions in the Fourth Amendment
setting.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you might respond
that the government's going to say, well, there's Monell
that's in their brief, and you'll probably say that
that's a weak substitute for a criminal defense
attorney's doing it in the trial itself.
MR. KERR: It is a weak substitute. There's
been no case that I'm aware of at least involving
liability against a municipality seeking law reform.
It's because the Court has rejected the notion of
municipal liability as being based on respondeat
superior.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose we were concerned
with the costs of your rule in the sense that Gant does
have some exception for the safety of the officers, and
I think you can read the case if there's some general
safety considerations for not securing the car in a
neighborhood rather than leave it by itself. If we
adopted your rule, the prosecution in all those cases
would not have had the opportunity to make those
additional defenses or those -- to advance those
additional justifications for the search. Maybe you'll
say, well, I'm just trying to resurrect Linkletter.
MR. KERR: I disagree. Just to explain,
Justice Kennedy, my rule would be to retain the existing
practice of this Court. I'm suggesting no changes in
the practice of this Court, and that is when the Court
recognized the need to overturn Belton or at least to
substantially change Belton in the Gant case, the Court,
Justice Alito in his dissent, recognized that there were
costs along with that and that led to review of cases in
the lower courts. In many of those lower court
decisions, the lower courts held that the searches were
nonetheless constitutional under Gant, and that was
absolutely proper. In those situations there is no
constitutional violation, no one goes -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, those cases were
pending. I was concerned with cases that were closed, I
suppose.
MR. KERR: In the closed cases, I'm not in
any way challenging the traditional rule of Teague v.
Layne and Stone v. Powell that the new rule is not
available. As soon as the conviction is final, the door
is closed and no defendant can seek review. This is
only about direct review and the initial case in which
the rule is announced, and that's why I think it raises
a special set of jurisprudential problems because it
implicates this Court's need to avoid advisory opinions
and to avoid what would amount to a one-way street.
Under the government's proposed rules, proposed rule,
defendants would have a limited ability to challenge
precedents that construe the Fourth Amendment too
narrowly, but of course of government would be free in
any case to challenge precedents that the government
believes construes the Fourth Amendment too broadly.
The concern is that over time that would lead to an
asymmetry in the Court's outcomes, not as a result of
the measured judgments of this Court, but rather as a
result of the incentives on counsel, and the Court
should strive to avoid that sort of result.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're asking us for
an exception to our general approach, assuming the
general approach is not the one you succeed, for, as you
put it, cases where there's zero possibility of success,
while allowing application of the good faith precedent,
even if the chances of success are remote.
Is it really worth the candle to have
litigation over whether it was a difference between zero
chance and remote chance, as opposed to continuing to
apply the good faith rule across the board?
MR. KERR: Just to be clear, the Court has
not applied the good faith exception in this setting.
The government is arguing for an expansion of the good
faith exception into territory which has traditionally
been thought to be the regime of retroactivity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand your
position on that. Now, getting to my question, is it
really worth it for us to have litigation over the
difference between zero and remote in determining what
rule we should apply in this case?
MR. KERR: I don't foresee litigation on
that point because, at least as I understand the
government's rule, as soon as a defendant utters the
phrase "This court should overturn its precedent," then
the good faith exception would automatically apply.
That's at least how I understand the government's
proposed rule. So it would be up to this Court to craft
exactly what the standard would be, but if the standard
is broad enough such that upon asking for -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Most lawyers don't
take that position. Most lawyers would argue the
Court's precedents should be overturned and, if not,
here's why our case is different. And we would still be
required under your theory to look if that second
argument has zero chance or only a remote chance.
MR. KERR: In that circumstance I think the
Court would be forced with issuing what -- forced to
issue what may amount to an advisory opinion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And it seems to
me -- I mean, in terms of the incentives on the defense
counsel, it would be an odd defense lawyer who is going
to say you should consider argument A because my second
argument has got zero chance of succeeding.
MR. KERR: I think the incentive on defense
counsel, if the government's rule is adopted, is to
never argue that cases should be overturned, and instead
make not terribly candid arguments to this Court that
every case is distinguishable.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Kerr, I've been on the
bench 30 years or so now. I have never, never heard
counsel come before the court and say that we should
overrule a case without making the argument: The facts
of this case are not within the prior decision anyway.
It just doesn't happen.
MR. KERR: Katz v. United States is perhaps
a case worth focusing on, where the Court overturned the
rule of Goldman and Olmstead that wiretapping does not
implicate the Fourth Amendment. Katz's brief to this
Court argued that the Goldman-Olmstead regime had -- was
no longer applicable, had been implicitly overturned by
prior cases, and then said if it has not been implicitly
overturned, it must be overruled. There was no attempt
to try to distinguish the facts of the Katz case from
the Goldman-Olmstead regime.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There was still not the
argument you should overrule the prior case, period,
with no effort to show why you could come out that way
without overruling the prior cases. I just don't
know -
MR. KERR: Those arguments, I agree, Justice
Scalia, are rare. At the same time they are important
arguments. It is an -- it is an alternative argument -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm saying they're
nonexistent. I'm not saying they're rare.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The difference
between zero and remote.
(Laughter.)
MR. KERR: Nonetheless, the incentive on
counsel under the government's rule would be not to ever
make the claim that a precedent should be overturned.
And the Court needs that argument to be made in
appropriate cases so the Court can enter decisions and
consider the balance of the considerations
appropriately. It has done so under the current
practice, and that is really as a result of Griffith v.
Kentucky, which applies not only -- allows the
exclusionary rule to be available in the first case, but
in other cases on direct review.
If there are no further questions, I would
like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Dreeben.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Because the exclusionary rule has severe
consequences for the truth-seeking function of a
criminal trial, this Court has restricted its
application to those situations in which it's necessary
to further the deterrent purpose of the exclusionary
rule, namely to shape police conduct.
The Court has repeatedly rejected efforts to
expand the exclusionary rule to serve other purposes,
such as schooling judges who issue warrants on the need
to respect the Fourth Amendment, reminding legislatures
about their obligations under the Fourth Amendment, and
for other purposes such as to preserve judicial
integrity.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dreeben, what about
Gant itself? Gant severely qualified Belton. Should
there have been a suppression remedy for Gant, as
Justice Kagan suggested, the very case that changes the
law?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Ginsburg, let me give
two responses to that. First of all, the rule that the
Eleventh Circuit adopted in this case, and that is the
only rule before the Court, involves a situation in
which there is binding appellant precedent that
instructs the officer, tells the officer, what you're
about to do complies with the Fourth Amendment.
The state of the law in Arizona would not
necessarily have risen to that level, in light of the
dissonance in that court's opinions, in the Arizona
Supreme Court opinions, about the reach and scope of
Belton.
So the question about whether the rule that
we're urging here would have applied in Arizona is a
separate question from the one that the Eleventh Circuit
resolved.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And how would you answer
it? Was Gant purely prospective or did Gant itself get
the exclusionary rule?
MR. DREEBEN: Gant obtained relief. This
Court granted certiorari in Gant limited to the Fourth
Amendment question, and Arizona never raised any good
faith exception to the exclusionary rule in that case,
so the Court did not address the good faith issue.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose -- suppose it had
been raised?
MR. DREEBEN: The logic of our position
would be that, to the extent that Gant was seeking
Belton to be overruled, he would not be able to impugn
the actions of the officers who relied on it. To the
extent that he was doing what he actually did do and
which this Court's opinion in Gant accepted, which is to
say that the Gant opinion, that the Belton opinion did
not resolve the fact pattern in Gant, he would not be
automatically governed by the good faith exception. And
as a result, Gant is really the best illustration of how
unusual it is for a lawyer to come to this Court and
say, please outright overrule a Fourth Amendment
decision.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dreeben, do you think
that if a lawyer did that, if a lawyer filed a cert
petition and said you should overturn the following
Fourth Amendment precedent, and that was all that was in
the cert petition, would we be able to grant that cert
petition knowing that there was no possibility of relief
for that petitioner?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, Justice Kagan, I believe
the Court could grant that petition, although it's
highly likely that any criminal defendant who filed it
would couple it with a claim that this Court should
either reverse, modify, or limit any holding that came
out.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you think that we would
have appropriate Article III authority to decide that
question without any hope of relief?
MR. DREEBEN: Certainly the Court would have
Article III authority, because it's always free to
limit, modify or abrogate one of its precedents,
including a holding, if one issued from this decision,
that the good faith rule applies when the Court
overrules its decision.
Litigants can all the time be faced with
impossible arguments under existing precedent, but that
doesn't preclude this Court's Article III jurisdiction
to adjudicate challenges to that precedent. That's
indeed the very premise of Petitioner's argument.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume if Petitioner says
we should be able to overrule our prior substantive
precedent, he should also logically say that we should
be able to overrule our prior precedent regarding the
exclusionary rule. So that whenever somebody wants to
come up here to challenge prior precedent, he can just
say: You know, Your Honors, we're asking you to
overrule two cases: The first one, the substantive rule
of Fourth Amendment law; and secondly, whether that -
that change in law can govern the action of the
policeman who didn't realize that the law was going to
be changed.
MR. DREEBEN: That's correct, Justice
Scalia, and I think it illustrates why there is no
Article III impediment. Now, this Court may
prudentially be reluctant to take a case in which it
knows that its resolution of the Fourth Amendment issue
would not dictate a reversal of the judgment, even if
the Fourth Amendment issue went in favor of the
defendant, but it is not that dissimilar from the
situation in qualified immunity, when there is no law on
the books that governs an issue and a petitioner asks
the Court to resolve the Fourth Amendment issue.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if he asks for the
double overruling that I just suggested, I guess there's
some chance that the Court would do it?
MR. DREEBEN: It would be remote, but not
zero.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You've just raised the
question of qualified immunity and the similarities.
There is one problem that I have with the regime that
you are suggesting, which is that because laws differ
among circuits, now we've created a regime where we say
if the law was clear or if there was law on this issue
in your circuit, and the police officer relied on it,
the exclusionary rule won't apply; but if the law was
uncertain or not clear in another circuit, then the
exclusionary rule does apply.
There's something illogical about permitting
that kind of difference to control the outcome of
suppression. Are you through the back door trying to
get in a qualified immunity thing? If any police
officer has a reasonable cause to believe their conduct
didn't violate the Constitution, then no suppression?
That is what it sounds like your brief is ultimately
suggesting.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Sotomayor, we're
not kind -- trying to come in through the back door with
qualified immunity as a standard in this case. If we
ever were to urge that, it would be through the front
door. We would make the argument overtly.
This case doesn't involve that issue. Judge
Kravitch's opinion for the Eleventh Circuit very
carefully distinguished between cases in which governing
precedent instructed the officers, your conduct is
lawful if you do this, from cases in which the law is
unclear and there is no governing precedent.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So there's no value in
your mind to the fact, as your adversary is saying -- I
don't -- I haven't found one case previously by this
Court where it has applied the good faith exception to
the finding by the Court of a Fourth Amendment
violation. Have you? It's never been done in any case,
correct?
MR. DREEBEN: Not directly under the
exclusionary rule. United States v. Peltier considered
the factors that now go into the good faith exception
under the rubric of then-prevailing retroactivity law.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, what we're doing
is sort of -- your adversary is right, we're returning
to Linkletter, aren't we? We're sort of saying it's
going to apply, the exclusionary rule is going to apply
in some cases, but not all.
MR. DREEBEN: Not returning to Linkletter,
Justice Sotomayor, because Linkletter was an
across-the-board rule that said that this Court had the
authority to render -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm talking about what
happened before then.
MR. DREEBEN: Before -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We're going to have the
exclusionary rule apply sometimes but not other times.
MR. DREEBEN: That's true, but that's a
direct consequence of the logic of the good faith
exception itself; and the considerations that had
informed this Court's retroactivity jurisprudence in the
Peltier decision were taken out of the law of
retroactivity when the Court decided Griffith v.
Kentucky; but those same considerations became relevant
to the good faith exception, which is tied to the
question of whether there is a need to deter police
misconduct because the police have disregarded the
governing law.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there -- is there
anything to be said for simplicity? The normal rule is
when the police violate the Fourth Amendment you exclude
the evidence. That's the rule. Then there are some
exceptions, good faith, et cetera. But that's the
normal rule.
You have a new law in this Court. The new
law says, now this is a violation; we didn't previously
think it is, but it is; and that applies to the case in
front us and to other cases on direct appeal. The
reason that's simple is that's what we've always done.
And somebody says let's make an exception here, bring in
the exception, good faith, and we say no. Why? Not
because any of the policy arguments are wrong, but just
because, as this last 40 minutes demonstrates, once we
do that it's so complicated, only 14 people are going to
understand it and they're not going to understand it,
either.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Breyer, I think
nine of the people who will understand it are on this
Court.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's very optimistic.
(Laughter.)
MR. DREEBEN: I'm an optimist.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't think that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think it's so
complicated, counsel. Don't worry about it.
(Laughter.)
MR. DREEBEN: The principle is very
straightforward. The principle is that the exclusionary
rule applies only when it can deter police misconduct.
When police rely on a warrant issued by a magistrate, a
statute or a judicial decision issued by a court of
appeals that governs their conduct, they are not making
a decision about what the Fourth Amendment requires.
They are following a different actor in the system, and
this Court has held that there is no deterrent value to
suppress evidence with an important cost to the
truth-seeking function of the criminal trial, which is
why, even if it makes for a simpler rule, the Court does
not automatically suppress evidence just to achieve
simplicity. It does -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Actually, why don't we just
abolish the exclusionary rule? That would be really
simple. Whatever evidence tends to prove the truth
comes in. That would be a very simple system if we're
looking for just simplicity, wouldn't it?
MR. DREEBEN: It would be an extremely
simple system.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're not proposing that,
though?
MR. DREEBEN: Not in this case, because this
case represents only an application of existing doctrine
in the Court with respect to the purposes of the
exclusionary rule.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: There is something ironic
in your position that the defendant who lives in the
circuit that is most clearly wrong is treated worst.
MR. DREEBEN: The defendant in these cases
is not the object of the Court's protection. I think,
as Justice Kagan's question made clear, the exclusionary
rule is not a personal individual right. It's not a
constitutional right at all. It is a remedy that this
Court has devised, not to protect the defendant's
interests as such. The Fourth Amendment violation has
happened out of court. It cannot be repaired. The
purpose of the exclusionary rule is to deter future
conduct by other counterparts of that police officer or
the police officer himself, so that when he confronts
the situation in the future he will be more solicitous
of Fourth Amendment rights.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, if there's a
circuit split, how do we encourage police officers to be
careful about the Fourth Amendment? There's a
presumption somehow that because a circuit precedent
exists that says it's okay to do this, that police
officers have to do this. I don't necessarily believe
that. If there's a circuit split and a police officer
knows that other circuits are saying this is
unconstitutional, why are we taking away the deterrent
effect of having thoughts occur to the officer about
thinking through whether there's a better way and a
legal way to do things?
With respect to the Fourth Amendment, we've
built -- your adversary is right, we've built in so many
exceptions, and including in this case the inventory
search, that the officers have many different ways of
doing things than merely doing what this particular
court thought was legal or this circuit. So I guess my
question is, when there's a circuit split, why are we,
as Justice Kennedy is saying, giving protection to the
circuit that's plain wrong and to the officer who chose
to follow that advice?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Sotomayor, we don't
expect police officers to attempt to define the content
of the Fourth Amendment on their own. They are
recipients of the status of the law from the courts that
govern their activities; training programs will be
instituted based on that law. I'm sure that careful
training programs will advise officers that there may be
some legal risk if there's a circuit split, and that a
decision may ultimately be reversed; but we don't expect
police departments to try to make the Fourth Amendment
decision on their own. And there's some sound -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they're going to be
protected -- they're going to be protected from that -
MR. DREEBEN: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- meaning they're going
to get qualified immunity from any personal liability.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, but the reason that the
Fourth Amendment balance has been struck in any given
way in a particular court is because that is felt to be
the reasonable way for officers to operate. In other
words -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume that an officer
when he goes out to do his job does not have primarily
in mind not to get sued, but I think primarily in mind
he wants to arrest somebody in such a manner that the
person can be convicted of the crime that he's done,
right?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Scalia, that's exactly
right. The officers are seeking to protect the public
interest, and by not taking advantage of decisions in
their circuits that explain that certain behavior is
reasonable, they can be putting the public interest at
risk by relinquishing procedures that have been held to
comply with the Fourth Amendment and yet allow the
police to solve crime or to arrest suspects.
Now, there's been a lot of discussion in
Petitioner's argument about the need to provide an
incentive to counsel to raise Fourth Amendment
challenges to existing precedent. I think it's useful
at the outset to look a little bit empirically at that
question, because some members of the Court have
expressed concern about that possibility.
From as best as I can tell, this Court has
not overruled one of its Fourth Amendment precedents in
a manner that favored defendants' interests since 1969.
Despite whatever incentives may have existed as a result
of the exclusionary rule, defendants will typically
understand that stare decisis is the normal course that
this Court follows, and as a result, they are highly
likely to structure their arguments in a manner that
will seek to distinguish, limit, or undermine a
precedent rather than calling for its outright
overruling.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, particularly in light
of that, what is wrong with the suggestion that Justice
Kagan raised in one of her questions about retaining an
exception to the good faith exception for the situation,
for the defendant whose case comes up here and results
in the overruling of one of this Court's precedents?
The Court invented the exclusionary rule.
The Court invented the good faith exception to the
exclusionary rule. Is there anything to prevent the
Court from inventing a new exception to the exception to
the exclusionary rule?
MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Alito, there is
nothing to prevent this Court from inventing that
exception. That exception would serve the purpose of
encouraging litigants to ask the Court to overrule its
decisions and thereby to receive a benefit when they do
so. If it's limited to the first individual who
actually succeeds in that endeavor, it would limit the
costs of the exclusionary rule, which, after all, result
in the exclusion of reliable probative evidence of guilt
in every case where it's applied.
And the Court could tailor the exclusionary
rule in that manner. If it did so, it would certainly
minimize the costs, and it would represent the least
amount of intrusion on the purposes of the exclusionary
rule. But I would caution the Court in this respect.
If the Court were to adopt another purpose for the
exclusionary rule, namely creating incentives for
counsel to challenge existing precedent, that will
represent a substantial departure from this Court's
consistent holdings that the only function of the
exclusionary rule is to deter police misconduct, and
once the Court has acknowledged that an additional
exception to the exclusionary rule is justified, even if
in these rare situations, it will create pressure for
litigants to urge that additional policy interests of
the administration of justice would be served if the
Court would create yet another exception.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think we'd look
particularly good, either, do you? I mean, if.
We had one case raising a Fourth Amendment
question, and let's say six others who raise -- that
raise the same question, what would we do? We would
grant the first and hold the second? No use to hold the
second, because they're going to lose anyway, right?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So I guess we would -- we
would just grant the first and deny all the rest, even
though they're raising the same issue?
MR. DREEBEN: I think the strongest argument
against -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't smell very good.
MR. DREEBEN: -- the proposal, Justice
Scalia, would be an appearance of arbitrariness in the
Court's actions.
JUSTICE BREYER: So that's why, isn't it -
that's why the normal rule has been that the person
litigating the case gets the advantage of the new rule,
as do other people whose initial appeals are not final,
and there we are. That's a rule existing, I guess, for
a long time. I guess these other people have to have
raised the question in their case. They have to have
asked for it. They can't -- they have to follow normal
rules. Has that caused havoc, or has that caused
things -- the legal system, even before -
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, it hasn't
caused havoc, for several reasons. One is it's
extraordinarily rare for this Court to overrule its own
Fourth Amendment precedent. It's apparently equally
rare, or almost equally rare, for the courts of appeals
to overrule their precedent and adopt a more
defendant-friendly Fourth Amendment rule.
I cannot claim to have done an exhaustive
survey of all of the courts of appeals decisions that
possibly overruled Fourth Amendment holdings, but the
results of my research disclose only one case in which a
court of appeals overruled its precedent to favor a
defendant, and that occurred in 1987 in the Fifth
Circuit, and the Fifth Circuit adopted a good faith
exception precisely like the one that the government is
urging the court to adopt today and declined to suppress
the evidence for that reason. No other circuit has
apparently confronted the question of whether overruling
a decision triggers the good faith exception.
JUSTICE BREYER: I would have thought it was
more for this Court, actually, anyway. I don't know if
it has to be the words "overruling." My recollection
was: Has the Court created a new rule of law? I think
it goes back to Cardozo, Sunburst or something, that if
the Court creates a new rule of law, then does it apply
prospective, retroactively? And the worked-out position
was it applies retroactively, but to the litigant and to
those whose appeals are not final if they raised it.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: And you want to change
that, it seems to me.
MR. DREEBEN: No. That is the retroactivity
question, and the retroactivity question is -
JUSTICE BREYER: You're hiving off the -
the suppression. I understand.
MR. DREEBEN: This Court has acknowledged
that the exclusionary rule is not an individual right,
it's a remedy. It doesn't involve any violation of
constitutional rights of the defendant. It's a remedy
that this Court devised after finding a Fourth
Amendment.
And I think, as Justice Ginsburg pointed
out, in Judge Kravitch's opinion for the Eleventh
Circuit, Judge Kravitch acknowledged that Gant is the
law; the search in that case was unconstitutional. The
next question is an entirely separate issue of remedy,
and that remedy issue is governed by this Court's good
faith precedents. The rarity with which courts of
appeals have confronted this simply reflects the fact
that, even without the lack of incentive that Petitioner
says will result if the Court agrees with the government
today, holdings that overrule Fourth Amendment decisions
squarely and favor defendants do not occur all that
often.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Were we right that -
there were several cases that were TBR'd in light of
Gant. Maybe some of them shouldn't have been TBR'd
under your theory.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, before
the litigation that occurred in the wake of Gant, there
was only one precedent on the books in any circuit that
I'm aware of that had applied the -- in the Federal
system -- that had applied a good faith rule to overrule
judicial decisions. That was United States v. Jackson
in the Fifth Circuit. It's cited in the Eleventh
Circuit's opinion in this case. It happened in 1987.
So I think it's fair to say that prosecutors
and government officials were not raising good faith
exclusionary rule arguments in the cases that were held
for Gant. I don't believe that the United States had
done so, and as a result, it was perfectly logical and
in accordance with this Court's normal practice to
grant, vacate, and remand those cases for further
consideration under Gant.
But in the wake of Gant, courts began to
think of the logic of Leon and Krull and this Court's
recent decision in Herring v. United States and attempt
to apply the logic of those decisions to a circumstance
in which a police officer relies on a binding and
governing appellate precedent, and they concluded that
courts that announce precedents have every reason to
expect that litigants will rely on them and that police
officers will rely on them. Therefore, there is no
deterrent purpose to be served by suppressing the
evidence. It's all cost.
And the cost would be that individuals whose
convictions have been obtained based on evidence that
was seized in reasonable good faith reliance on existing
appellate precedent will now be able to overturn their
convictions, and that's a heavy cost to the
administration of justice. It's why the exclusionary
rule has been confined to particularized circumstances
where it's thought that it will actually achieve a
benefit, and it has not been expanded beyond those
purposes.
So given that litigants, criminal
defendants, have a tremendous incentive to challenge
their convictions and to try to navigate around
precedents while simultaneously showing that those
precedents may have underlying material flaws, this
Court is highly unlikely to be deprived of cases in
which litigants attempt to undermine precedents without
actually calling for their overruling. That is what
happened, for example, in Batson v. Kentucky, where the
Petitioner in that case did not want to head-on confront
Swain v. Alabama and ask for its overruling, and as a
result asserted that racially discriminatory peremptory
challenges were invalid under the Sixth Amendment,
rather than the Equal Protection Clause. This Court got
the case and concluded that the proper analysis was the
Equal Protection Clause and it accordingly overruled
Swain in relevant part.
So it's highly unlikely that if, in fact, a
precedent of this Court is beginning to fray around the
edges and justices of this Court have written
concurrences or dissents that explain that they no
longer believe that the logic of that is sound,
litigants will exploit those statements in an effort to
narrow the precedent and ultimately expose its flaws, so
that if this Court determines it can overrule the
precedent, and it can do so even if the exclusionary
remedy will not follow.
JUSTICE ALITO: Would the rule that you're
arguing for apply only in the situation where there is a
binding precedent that affirmatively approves a
particular police practice, or would it also apply in
the situation in which there is simply absolutely
nothing on the books that prohibits the police practice,
so that a reasonable officer wouldn't have any reason to
think that the practice was unconstitutional?
MR. DREEBEN: This case, Justice Alito, only
involves the example of binding appellate precedent, and
Judge Kravitch's opinion for the Eleventh Circuit
distinguished between the two situations. In the
situation in which there is no precedent, such that an
officer would not be instructed that his conduct is
affirmatively unconstitutional, qualified immunity
applies, and there would be arguments that there is
nothing to deter if an officer acts within that empty
space.
But there is a countervailing argument, and
the countervailing argument, which Judge Kravitch talked
about in the Eleventh Circuit, opinion, would be that
when there's no law on the books courts should give
officers to -- an incentive to act in favor of the more
constitutionally protective manner, rather than taking a
flier on what might turn out to be unconstitutional.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: She did say that if there
is ambiguity, then the police must err on the side of
not searching. Do you think that that's -- do you
accept that?
MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Ginsburg, I would
not submit to the Court that the United States
necessarily agrees with that. I think that this case
doesn't involve that problem and, as I said, there are
contrary arguments that could be advanced based on this
Court's description in Herring of the purpose of the
exclusionary rule to reach conduct that is either
reckless or intentional or at the least systematically
negligent.
And, so, some day this Court may have to
confront whether the narrow limitation that Judge
Kravitch adapted -- adopted in her opinion is the
correct rule of law versus a broader view that exclusion
is only appropriate when the officers have engaged in
truly culpable conduct. But that's not a bridge that
the Court needs to cross in this case. It's not an
argument that the United States is advancing for
affirmance of the judgment.
This judgment can be affirmed simply by
holding that the syllogism that the court of appeals
adopted that, absent a deterrent purpose there is no
basis for exclusion, there is no deterrent purpose here,
that's sufficient to resolve this case and the Court can
leave for another day, if it agrees with that
proposition, whether the exclusionary rule should have
any broader exception for good faith behavior.
If the Court has no further questions -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dreeben.
Mr. Kerr, you have 6 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ORIN S. KERR
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KERR: Thank you.
I would like to start with the costs -- or
return to the costs here of the exclusionary rule.
First, the plain error doctrine is going to largely
address the concerns that the government has in this
case. If this Court is seeking to limit the scope of
the exclusionary rule when the Court overturns
precedents under the plain error doctrine, if defendants
don't raise a challenge to the search or seizure in
their case there will be no relief available to them.
So therefore, the only possible relief that
could be granted is for individuals that saw the issue,
raised the issue, and that will, of course, include the
individual who raises the claim in a case where the
Court overturns its precedent, therefore avoiding any of
the difficulties similar to that of retroactivity.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In -- in -- in one -- in
one sense if we're talking about costs, the rule the
government proposes is -- is defendant friendly, in that
this Court may be more willing to impose stricter rules
under the Fourth Amendment, if it knows that the good
faith rule will protect against the -- the costs of -
of overturning the conviction.
MR. KERR: That's exactly right, Justice
Kennedy. And, in fact, that exact argument was one of
the reasons Justice Harlan concluded that the
exclusionary rule should be available in the first case
and on direct review. The Court needs to be aware of
the costs when it overturns precedent. It should not
depart from precedent lightly.
And I think Gant is a good example. Justice
Alito's dissent nicely points out the very real costs of
the shift from the Belton rule to the Gant rule, and if
there were no costs in a regime of pure prospectivity,
the Court would feel much more free to overturn its
precedents because no one would actually be affected by
the rule of any cases that are either on direct review
or in the initial case or of those individuals whose
convictions are already final.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that could work to the
benefit of defendants as a class, not the particular
defendant?
MR. KERR: That works to the benefit of
defendants as a class, absolutely. In fact, going back
to the Linkletter era, that was one of the -- perceived
as one of the benefits of Linkletter, that it freed the
Court to overturn precedent. But I think that is an
improper consideration. It is necessary for Fourth
Amendment decisionmaking for the Court to accurately
weigh the costs and benefits of any shift in the rules.
And so I think that the costs of the exclusionary rule
in that setting are actually necessary costs.
And I also think concerns of a windfall that
are available to defendants are overstated because of
the many doctrines that limit the scope of the
exclusionary rule such as inevitable discovery or
standing. Actually the only individuals who would
receive the benefit of the exclusionary rule would be
those individuals who were not searched in the first
place if the Constitution were followed.
So, those are individuals who actually did
not receive -- will not receive a windfall. They will
essentially, if they were lucky enough to raise the
issue, go back to the state that they were before the
Constitution was violated. And again, that's a limited
group of people, and those are, I think, the necessary
costs required by the basic norms of constitutional
adjudication that Justice Harlan raised in his dissent
in Desist v. United States, and I think in a lot of
ways this case does return to those concerns of Justice
Harlan, raised both in his Desist dissent and his
separate opinion for the Court in Mackey v. United
States.
I also wanted to focus on how similar the
issue is in this case to -- in the Linkletter era, if
you read the Desist dissent, in particular Justice
Harlan's dissent, it's clear that he's considering the
issue of retroactivity to be about the scope of the
exclusionary rule.
The Eleventh Circuit below had this idea
that retroactivity is about the availability of a rule,
but rules are not sort of ephemeral ideas that are
available or not without any impact. It must be that if
they are available, they are available independently of
when they were announced and should be enforced
accordingly.
If there are no further questions -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Kerr.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:02 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
26:23 adopts 9:21 14:25 15:17 23:16 32:18 35:20 38:11
42:15 advance 18:2 16:13 17:6 19:8 applications 8:24 44:17,18 45:19
49:25 advantage 35:13 25:2,18,23 27:5 24:19 29:8 37:7 12:1 21:13
18:16 44:3 29:6,17 33:25 33:14,24 34:11 26:15 30:24 Arizona 9:2
advice 34:8 34:18 35:1,17 31:21 40:3 24:13,15,19
advocating 13:10 amount 19:5 21:4 11:4 15:6 20:1 articulate 8:16
40:12,20 affirmatively analysis 43:11 28:10 29:19,19 asked 38:24
affirmed 45:21 announced 19:2 43:25 44:2 20:20 27:3
46:1 anyway 11:16 appropriate 35:5
Alito's 47:16 30:25 approves 44:1 34:10 42:3 43:3
allowed 16:8 31:24 38:20 38:15 attorney 16:2
49:2 Almeida-Sanc... appear 11:14 argued 21:25 authority 26:9,12
42:17 altered 4:19 6:10 38:15 11:7 20:4 43:25 authorizes 15:9
ambiguity 44:25 appellant 24:10 4:17 6:7 7:2 8:5 32:6
39:7,17 5:2,7 7:3,9,25 42:15 44:8 12:23 16:24 49:15
18:24 23:3 42:20 47:25 carefully 29:1 cert 25:21,24,24 40:20 41:12,16
47:11 48:2,17 case 3:4,11 4:6 certain 9:13 44:9,19 49:14
49:17,18 benefits 14:2 4:12 6:17 7:18 35:14 circuits 9:19 28:5
48:5,9 8:21,21 10:9,17 certainly 9:25 33:19 35:14
beyond 42:20 13:12,13,13,17 cetera 30:20 circumstance
47:12 42:5 44:1,8 15:10 16:25 15:21 19:7,10 15:9 42:18
block 6:20 19:1,10 20:11 42:23 46:18 claim 11:14
39:25 branches 7:22 25:3 27:12 18:22 claims 6:20 7:3
Breyer 30:16 28:21,24 29:7 chance 11:25 12:1,13
35:1 39:2,21 40:5,6 32:17,18 34:1 16:2,3 19:25,25 Clause 43:10,12
42:13 bridge 45:17 38:19,23 39:12 chances 19:22 11:6 20:2 28:6
brief 8:16 17:10 40:21 41:17 change 6:15,19 28:9 33:1 49:11
briefed 11:3 45:5,18,25 40:6 32:23
3:8 broader 45:15 12:4,6,8,10 7:13,20 11:11 21:17 22:8
46:9 46:3 13:17,17 14:22 12:3,22 13:22 25:17 27:2
19:11 17:25 18:12,18 21:5 22:16 23:7 comes 32:11
33:17 21:12 22:2,9,23 49:22 complicated 31:6
43:18 C 23:4 27:4 29:1 chose 34:7 31:17
calling 36:10 32:24 41:7,20 9:15,16,23,24 comply 35:17
9:1,7 18:9 candle 19:23 cause 28:15 28:25 32:23 concern 5:3
24:2,17 car 17:23 caused 38:25,25 33:13,15,18 19:12 35:25
47:17 Cardozo 39:25 39:3 34:4,5,7,16 concerned 5:6
17:19 33:3 40:15 49:1 36:6 46:22 24:15 25:12 22:23 35:13
constitutionally court 1:1,12 3:10 26:19 30:8 37:2 39:10 41:3
48:12 construe 7:25 7:8,24 8:1,5,9 37:16 38:16 decisis 36:6
19:8 8:18 9:3,4,7,8 40:23 41:23 declined 39:17
47:10 content 34:10 10:24 11:4,8 cover 6:25 12:16,18,20
continues 4:20 13:23 15:2,22 create 37:21,24 18:25 20:14
9:13 23:18 contrary 45:7 17:4,16 18:7,8 39:24 32:22,24 36:16
29:2 control 28:12 18:8,10,13 creates 40:1 39:14 40:15
33:8 convicted 35:9 19:14,15 20:2 creating 37:14 47:3 48:1
45:9,17 conviction 18:24 20:15,18 21:3 crime 35:9,18 defendants 6:25
42:13,16,24 23:15,19 24:9 42:22 19:7 36:3,5
corpus 4:8 26:3,5,11,15 culpable 45:17 46:17 47:25
16:15 17:2 27:9 29:11 30:22 31:11,23 D defendant-frie...
correctness 8:12 33:6 34:4 35:2 Davis 1:3 3:4 defense 6:20
23:14 cost 11:10 32:3 36:19,21,24 deal 14:9 17:11 21:6,7,10
costs 17:20 37:19,24 39:4 12:12 26:9 define 34:10
48:7 46:11,12 47:2,6 40:1,12,16 41:2 30:10 31:5
22:24 48:9,10,11 49:1 43:21 45:4,12 decision 3:20,24 deny 38:9
counsel 6:19 45:18,22,25 4:1 5:21,23 8:8 denying 4:18 6:9
22:20 23:7 48:8 49:6 21:19 25:19 departments
37:15 18:13,14 34:12 31:23,25 34:17 departure 37:16
48:19,24 33:8 42:1,7 44:20 42:3 deprived 43:2
11:13,19 44:17,18 11:23 12:17 48:8 derivative 8:19
13:16,21 couple 26:5 14:20 16:7 17:6 decisions 8:5,13 description 45:8
18:15,17 course 11:2 19:9 19:4,13 20:23 8:18,20 9:24 Desist 5:4 7:11
18:14
49:3,5,10 discovery 48:15 35:11 36:23 err 44:25 exclusionary
31:21 discussion 35:19 44:7 45:3 46:6 errors 7:6 7:14,23 10:21
37:18 disregard 6:12 D.C 1:8,15,18 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 11:1,7 13:12,22
disregarded 2:6,9 13:24,25 14:14
dissent 7:11 E 2:1 3:1,1 17:5 23:17,20 24:24
49:2,5,10,11 edges 43:16 15:1,3 16:23,24 28:10 29:13,19
7:16 dissimilar 27:16 5:22 6:14 33:21 established 12:7 32:20 33:1,7
33:20 24:15 effort 12:17 22:8 et 30:20 37:5,8,11,14
45:23,24 distinct 7:10 43:19 event 11:4 37:18,20 40:13
distinguish 16:24 26:6 31:8 38:1 30:19 32:3,6,10 46:12,16 47:11
16:1 distinguished 24:8,20 28:25 exactly 3:13 8:16 exhaustive 39:9
20:10 29:1 44:10 40:19 41:16 10:8,13 16:21 existed 36:4
28:12 distinguishing 44:9,19 49:14 20:19 35:11 existing 5:17,19
doctrine 32:18 35:23 example 8:21 32:18 35:22
7:5 9:2 doctrines 3:12 enacted 15:16 exception 3:14 42:14
12:5 48:14 enacts 15:8 3:15 4:22 5:20 exists 33:16
32:1 34:2 doing 7:21 17:12 encourage 33:13 7:4 8:15 9:22 expand 6:24
34:3,3 37:1 16:19 17:21 expanded 8:23
16:18 double 27:21 enforced 49:19 30:7,12 31:2,3 expect 12:24
13:13,18 2:6 23:8,9,11 9:15 15:14 36:21,25,25 explain 18:5
23:4 30:6 24:1,6,25 25:7 engaged 45:16 37:20,24 39:16 35:14 43:17
47:12,21 25:20 26:2,11 enter 22:23 39:20 46:3 exploit 43:19
18:5 32:13,17,24 equally 39:5,6 exclusion 37:6 25:8,11
48:4 49:9
4:12 5:4 10:24 47:19 29:19 30:3 31:6 25:1 46:21
23:3 24:7 friendly 47:3 34:23 38:6 Griffith 3:18 23:1
43:14 flaws 43:1,20 32:4 37:17 21:25 22:5 group 48:25
48:3 flier 44:23 further 9:6 23:5 good 3:14,15 guess 7:1 13:19
22:4 follow 8:1 9:16 future 33:7,10 6:11 7:4 8:15 guilt 37:6
5:9,11 followed 48:19 G 3:1 20:1,3,4,16 habeas 4:8
6:1,6 following 5:12 gain 14:2 25:2,4,15 26:15 happen 21:20
7:4 8:15 10:12 25:22 Gant 6:18 9:3,4 29:8,14 30:6,12 happened 30:1
12:20 32:1 17:20 18:10,15 30:20 31:3 33:6 41:17 43:5
19:21 follows 36:7 24:2,2,3,23,23 36:15,19 38:1 Harlan 7:11
footnote 7:1 24:25 25:1,8,12 38:13 39:15,20 13:20 16:22
26:15 forced 21:3,3 25:13,14,16 40:23 41:14,19 47:10 49:2,5
30:6,12 foresee 20:12 40:20 41:8,11 42:14 46:3 47:5 Harlan's 13:14
31:3 forthright 9:8 41:21,25 42:1 47:15 49:11
39:15 found 29:7 47:15,17 govern 27:6 harmless 12:10
40:24 four 9:3 GENE 1:3 34:13 12:11
42:14 Fourth 3:23 5:2,6 general 1:17 governed 3:17 havoc 38:25 39:3
47:6 7:3,9,25 8:3,10 17:22 19:18,19 25:15 40:23 head-on 43:6
41:4 17:6 19:8,11 31:15 40:18 19:9,10 20:4 18:14 32:2
21:24 23:22,23 41:6,10 44:24 39:16 41:2,19 35:16 41:20
27:15,19 29:9 give 24:6 44:20 6:2 8:15 12:16 45:8
35:17,21 36:2 go 14:17 29:14 governs 27:18 history 4:7 14:19
47:23 48:7 35:6 39:25 26:3 38:5,9 holding 26:6,14
free 19:9 26:12 15:11,12 17:9 granted 14:9 holdings 37:17
34:1 44:8 14:12 15:4 16:9 Kentucky 3:18
13:15 14:7 ironic 32:21 17:19 18:6,11 Kerr 1:15 2:3,9
37:3 40:13 27:13,15,18,19 23:7,11 24:1,4 8:14 9:5,21
27:11 46:21 47:22 46:22 48:23 27:20 28:1,19 13:19 14:12
16:11 instituted 34:14 34:23 35:5,11 47:8 48:2 49:22
28:2,14 instructed 29:2 J 36:12,13,23 kind 14:7 28:12
34:24 44:12 Jackson 41:15 37:23,25 38:8 28:20
instructs 24:11 job 35:6 38:13,14,17 kinds 13:6
integrity 23:25 28:24 40:19,20 40:10,18 41:6 14:7 22:10 27:3
interest 35:13,15 judges 23:21 43:24 44:7,24 knowing 25:25
36:3 37:22 14:14 47:8,10,15,24 knows 27:13
32:3 8:20 judicial 23:24 18:3 45:14
11:13,18 36:19 jurisprudential 25:20 26:2,8 L
21:10 inventing 36:21 19:3 36:14 label 6:5,8 14:18
35:21 36:24 justice 1:18 3:3,9 Kagan's 33:1 labeled 5:20
42:23 inventory 10:18 4:16,25 5:8,9 Katz 21:21 22:4 labels 6:5
10:19,25 11:15 5:15,18,24 6:8 Katz's 21:24 lack 41:1
14:5 15:5 7:20 8:4,14,25 Kennedy 5:8,15 largely 46:13
31:13,18 limitation 45:13 majority 15:19 narrow 9:22 10:1 42:13
9:6,15 19:7 25:1 37:3 making 21:18 narrowly 19:9 occur 33:21 41:4
12:7 48:24 31:24 navigate 42:24 occurred 39:14
17:15 line 10:6,8,13 manner 35:8 necessarily 41:11
27:5,6 Linkletter 3:20 36:3,8 37:9 24:14 33:17 odd 21:7
28:6,6 3:21,24 5:1,4,5 44:22 45:5 oddity 13:7
29:3,15 14:13,16,19 Mapp 3:22 4:3 necessary 11:10 officer 6:12 9:23
16:20,22 18:4 March 1:9 23:16 48:7,11 15:14 16:6,11
39:24 29:18,21,22 material 43:1 48:25 24:11,11 28:7
44:20 48:4,5 49:9 matter 1:11 9:20 need 7:25 14:3 28:15 33:8,9,18
Linkletter's 4:4 49:25 18:9 19:4 23:21 33:21 34:7 35:5
43:3,19 21:6 38:1 47:12 29:2 33:13,17
little 35:23 35:24 11:18,21,22 Ohio 3:22
34:4,16 logical 41:22 merits 12:19 new 14:18 18:23 one-way 19:5
logically 12:18 MICHAEL 1:17 30:22,22 36:21 open 16:4,10
long 38:22 mind 29:6 35:7,7 40:1 opinion 7:12
43:18 minutes 31:5 nine 31:10 25:12,13,13
37:25 30:14 31:21 normal 30:17,21 45:14 49:6
12:19,20 38:6 Monday 1:9 norms 13:16 49:1 opportunities
36:12 lower 18:13,13 morning 3:4 17:16 opportunity 17:4
18:14 mount 15:20 18:1
46:15 Mackey 49:6 obligations 23:23 optimistic 31:12
23:9 42:18 6:23 7:16,17,25 19:10 20:23 prophylactic
46:8 pattern 25:14 30:14,18 31:21 43:1,3 46:17 38:14
pending 18:19 37:18 42:5,8 preclude 26:19 47:3
25:18 percent 13:2 position 13:4 preserve 23:24 17:25
27:4 peremptory 43:8 16:25 20:8,22 President 15:16 prosecutors
39:4,7 perfectly 41:22 25:7 32:22 40:2 16:15 41:18
43:21 period 5:1 13:21 possibility 9:25 pressure 37:21 prospective 5:16
36:2 39:11 permitted 9:13 25:25 35:25 33:15 prospectivity
43:12 permitting 28:11 possible 13:9 pretty 13:1 47:18
36:11,17 personal 14:15 postdates 4:1 30:23 protected 34:21
43:4,7 33:2 34:24 Powell 18:23 primarily 35:6,7 34:21
20:15 25:25 26:3 23:1 41:23 44:2 7:10 prove 32:10
42:15 petitioner 1:4,16 44:4,6 prior 5:21 16:12 provide 35:20
48:6 2:4,10 3:8 26:1 precedent 3:16 21:19 22:2,7,9 prudentially
21:12,22 41:1 43:6 46:9 9:16 10:12 11:8 probably 17:10 public 35:12,15
Petitioner's 12:17,19 16:7 probative 37:6 pure 47:18
phrase 20:15 22:21 24:10 28:3 45:6 purpose 23:17
47:13 plain 34:7 46:13 26:24,25 27:2 procedures 37:13 42:10
29:2,4 33:15 35:16 45:8,23,24
34:3 35:2 pointed 40:18 47:13,14 48:6 proper 18:16 putting 35:15
47:25 points 47:16 precedents 6:21 43:11
Q
24:2 reason 31:1 35:16 result 7:3 11:15 risen 24:14
28:2,14 34:25 39:18 reluctant 27:12 19:13,15,16 risk 34:16 35:16
34:24 42:7 44:5 rely 4:6 9:23 23:1 25:16 36:4 ROBERTS 3:3
reasonable 10:4 31:22 42:8,9 36:7 37:5 41:2 6:22 7:13,20
7:6 9:12 42:14 44:5 remand 41:24 39:12 21:5 22:16 23:7
reasonably 9:23 remedy 10:12 resurrect 18:4 46:5 49:22
20:8 reasoned 10:23 11:9 13:9 14:14 retain 18:6 role 8:2 17:5
25:2 reasons 4:11 24:3 33:3 40:14 retaining 36:14 routine 8:24
28:2 39:3 47:10 40:15,22,23 retroactive 3:24 rubric 29:15
33:1 34:5 REBUTTAL 2:8 43:23 4:19,22 5:16 rule 3:22,25 4:2
38:3,4,23 46:8 reminding 23:22 6:14 4:13,18,23 5:2
40:9,9,22 receive 37:2 remote 11:25 retroactively 5:7,9,10,11,12
46:4 recipients 34:12 20:10 21:1 retroactivity 6:18 7:14,23
reckless 45:10 22:17 27:23 3:13,17,21 4:24 10:21 11:1,7
repaired 33:6 10:12 20:6 13:24,25 14:1
recreating 15:3 37:16 49:12,15 18:22,23 19:2,6
46:18 regard 7:15 49:1 returning 29:17 23:3,13,18,20
regarding 26:25 requires 31:25 29:21 24:7,9,18,24
28:1 36:14 20:6 21:25 22:5 resembles 14:17 reverse 3:15 27:4 28:8,10
40:4 28:3,5 47:18 reserve 23:6 26:6 29:13,19,23
49:2,5 rejected 17:16 resolution 27:13 reversed 34:17 30:4,17,19,21
46:23 relatively 8:24 27:19 45:25 review 4:8,9,10 33:2,7 36:5,18
43:13 respect 8:5 15:4 9:18 13:18 17:5 37:12,14,18,20
39:4,6,6 reliance 3:16 7:6 33:24 37:12 23:4 47:12,21 39:8,24 40:1,13
14:11 16:5 Respondent 1:19 33:2,3,25 35:10 47:6,11,17,17
20:9 23:1
48:9 49:16 46:15 44:3,11 29:13 41:15,21 24:4 27:21
46:8 7:12 24:20 Sixth 43:9 15:15 16:8 Sunburst 39:25
22:14,15 36:25 solution 13:9 31:20 18:20 25:5,5
33:19 served 37:23 solve 35:18 strange 16:14 suppress 32:3,6
42:10 somebody 27:1 street 19:5 39:17
30:23 setting 5:20 7:6 soon 18:24 20:14 strive 19:16 42:10
33:16 41:2 17:7 20:3 48:11 sorry 4:5 strongest 8:6 suppression
10:7 severe 23:13 29:17,18 49:16 struck 35:1 28:13,16 40:11
22:6,12 severely 24:2 Sotomayor 28:1 structure 36:8 supreme 1:1,12
26:22 shape 23:18 28:19 29:5,16 struggled 16:21 8:9 9:2 24:16
31:16 shift 47:17 48:9 29:22,25 30:3 struggles 14:20 sure 13:20 34:14
35:5,11 show 22:8 33:12 34:9,20 subjected 15:12 survey 39:10
38:8,13 showing 42:25 34:23 submit 45:4 suspects 35:18
shown 4:7 sound 34:19 submitted 49:23 Swain 43:7,13
48:14 similar 3:12 8:22 space 44:16 14:18 32:14 39:1
46:25 49:8 special 19:3 substantial 15:25 41:14
11:15 similarly 14:22 34:5,16 substantially 45:10
18:3 simple 3:25 31:1 squarely 41:4 18:10 systemic 14:2,2
40:21 32:10,11,14 standard 8:17 substantive 7:15
simpler 32:5 14:21 16:18 26:23 27:4 T
simply 7:7 13:25 standpoint 16:1 succeed 19:19 take 6:4 12:4
21:8 38:5 simultaneously state 3:23 8:9 success 11:25 taken 30:9
42:25 24:13 48:23 12:2 16:2,3 takes 7:22
35:12 TBR'd 41:7,8
49:22 treat 13:16 14:21 3:5 5:4 21:21 Walker 3:20 32:23 34:7
treated 4:12 42:3 45:4,19 43:6
11:17 tremendous unpersuasive 7:4 wants 15:2 27:1 x 1:2,7
41:9 42:23 unusual 25:17 35:8
triggers 39:20 urging 24:19 Washington 1:8
8:6,14 truly 45:17 use 38:5 wasn't 10:14
20:10
11:9,23 truth 32:10 useful 35:22 way 10:23 13:24
22:17
14:18,23 truth-seeking utters 20:14 18:22 22:8
16:16 23:14 32:4 33:22,23 35:2,3
19:2 21:2 try 14:20 22:4 V ways 34:2 49:4 0
25:20 34:18 42:24 v 1:5 3:4,18,20 weak 17:11,13 09-11328 1:5 3:4
27:10 trying 6:24 16:19 3:22 5:4 18:22 weigh 48:9
31:9,15 18:4 28:13,20 18:23 21:21 went 9:6 27:15 1
32:25 turn 8:2 44:23 23:1 29:13 we'll 12:24 10:05 1:13 3:2
37:25 turned 9:1 30:10 41:15 we're 6:2,9,14 11:02 49:24
39:24 two 3:11 4:10 42:3 43:5,7 10:11 24:19 14 31:6
41:18 7:22 15:24 24:7 49:3,6 27:3 28:19 1965 3:20
44:6 45:1 27:4 44:10 vacate 41:24 29:16,17,18 1969 36:3
47:15 48:6 typically 36:5 value 29:5 32:2 30:3 32:11 47:2 1987 39:14 41:17
vast 15:19 we've 28:5 31:1
U version 10:1 33:24,25 2
34:4 39:21 uncertain 28:9 45:15 windfall 14:1 23 2:7
unclear 29:4 viewed 13:22 48:12,21 25 7:1
33:20 vintage 3:12 21:23 3
44:6,13 violate 28:16 wish 11:6 3 2:4
30:18 words 35:4 39:23 30 21:16
12:6,8
22:12 underlying 7:15 violated 10:11 work 47:24 4
26:17 12:10 43:1 48:24 worked-out 40:2
31:5
2:10
46:7
