IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
DONALD BULLCOMING, :
Petitioner : No. 09-10876
v. :
NEW MEXICO :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 2, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:15 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ., appointed by this Court,
Stanford, California; on behalf of Petitioner.
GARY K. KING, ESQ., Attorney General, Santa Fe, New
Mexico; on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GARY K. KING, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 30
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:15 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 09-10876,
Bullcoming v. New Mexico.
Mr. Fisher.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FISHER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The text, purpose, and history of the
Confrontation Clause make it clear that the prosecution
cannot introduce one person's testimonial statements
through the in-court testimony of someone else. Thus,
having held in Melendez-Diaz that a lab analyst's
statements in a forensic lab report are testimonial,
this is an easy case.
The State violated the Confrontation Clause
by introducing lab analyst Curtis Caylor's statements in
a forensic lab report without putting him on the stand.
The New Mexico Supreme Court resisted this analysis,
straightforward as it is, on the ground that
Mr. Bullcoming, as the defendant, had the opportunity to
cross-examine a substitute or a surrogate witness,
Mr. Razatos.
But a surrogate witness procedure violates
all four components of the right to confrontation. It
quite obviously violates the defendant's right to have
the witness testify in his presence, in the presence of
the jury so the jury can observe it, and under oath, as
happened in this case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Fisher, when you say
"in the presence," do you -- do you mean it necessarily
must be in the courtroom, or would a video-conferencing
set-up be permissible so that the technician or the
analyst could testify from the lab, rather -- but it
would be screened in -- in the courthouse?
MR. FISHER: Well, the default rule under
the Confrontation Clause is in presence, in the
courtroom. Now, in Maryland v. Craig, this Court held
in a child witness setting -- of course, very different
than this case -- that closed-circuit TV would be
permissible, and I believe, you know, in a future case,
if the State perhaps made some sort of showing that the
lab analyst couldn't come to court for some reason, and
certainly if the defendant stipulated, and maybe even if
the defendant didn't stipulate, a court could
accommodate -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The defendant didn't give
his consent, so we don't -- that's not a concern, but
let's -- let's suppose defendant doesn't stipulate. Is
this adequate to meet the Confrontation Clause?
MR. FISHER: I don't think it would be
adequate, Justice Ginsburg, with at least some -- absent
at least some showing of unavailability of the witness
or -- making the witness unable to come to court.
Now -- now, there is an amicus brief in the
case, I believe, that suggests some flexibility that
trial judges might employ in -- in accommodating lab
analysts' schedules.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about police
witnesses? What about not requiring the officer who -
who took the confession or who witnessed the alleged
crime -- not requiring him to appear because he's busy?
MR. FISHER: Well, that's never been -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can't make it. He's out on
the beat. So can we have him appear by television?
MR. FISHER: That's never been the rule,
Justice Scalia, and I don't think there would be a need
to -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why is a lab
technician different?
MR. FISHER: I don't think -- I don't think
one is, and you don't have to reach that in this case,
because the State never attempted to make any showing
that Mr. Caylor was unavailable for any reason. This -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Fisher, what if
you had two people doing this procedure? They're
sitting in, you know, chairs right next to the other.
The one, you know, takes the blood samples from the
vials, puts them in another vial, and puts the aluminum
stuff on and crimps it. The other one then takes the
vials and puts them in the machine and runs it. Do you
have to have both of them testify?
MR. FISHER: Only if the State wants to
present statements from them both.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, they want to -
MR. FISHER: They both -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They want to present
the results of the blood analysis -
MR. FISHER: I think -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- the numbers the
machine spits out.
MR. FISHER: I think in that scenario, if
both people were there for the whole thing, the State
could have either one of them testify. What the State
couldn't do -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even though one -
MR. FISHER: -- and this is the rule -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even though one
didn't do it? Even though the question is going to be,
did you put the aluminum on and crimp it, and the answer
is going to be, no, Joe did it; he sits right next to
me?
MR. FISHER: That's right. The
Confrontation Clause is a purely procedural right, Mr.
Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. That's
right. Does -- do they both have to testify, then, or
not?
MR. FISHER: They do not have to. The
Confrontation Clause is a purely procedural right. It
all depends on what -- whose statements the State wants
to introduce. So, if the State is satisfied to prove
its case by having somebody testify, saying, I watched
the thing go into the machine and I watched this result
come out and I saw that it wasn't tampered with and it
was Mr. Bullcoming's sample, then that would be fine.
And in fact, what some labs do -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I don't understand
that. How is that any different than the supervisor of
the lab saying, I know what these people do, I -- I
watch them on a day-to-day basis, and they perform their
work correctly?
MR. FISHER: Again, the question, Justice
Kennedy, is not who the State has to bring in. The
question is whose statements the State wants to
introduce. Here, the State wanted to introduce
Mr. Caylor's statements, and so it therefore needs to -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What the State wanted to
introduce is the result of the exam, and the Chief
Justice gives you the hypothetical. Say, two people are
necessary for the exam. You say only one has to be
there if both saw it?
MR. FISHER: If only -- if the State is only
introducing one person -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it -- but it's hearsay
as to what the first person did with -- with crimping -
MR. FISHER: I don't -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- crimping the thing.
It's not direct testimony from that person. You didn't
say, are you experienced in crimping? Did you use your
right hand or your left hand? Is there a danger of
spillage? And so on. All that is beyond the ability of
the defense to ask.
MR. FISHER: No, I -- Justice Kennedy, I
don't think it's hearsay. It's simply being an
eyewitness and saying: Here's what I watched. I
watched this person put it into the machine, and this is
the result that I saw come out.
Now, again, the only question is whose
statements the State wants to introduce. By all means,
Mr. Chief Justice and Justice Kennedy, if the State
wanted to introduce statements from both of the lab
analysts who worked together on the case, they would
need to bring them both in, but if they only want to
introduce one lab -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The State takes its
chances, right? I mean, as to how much it has to bring
in, in order to persuade the jury?
MR. FISHER: That's right. That's the
decision the State makes in every case, whether it be
multiple police investigators, multiple eyewitnesses,
or -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You always take your
chances with a business record. That's a given, of
course. Of course, the State takes a chance with the -
with the admission of any admissible hearsay testimony
that the jury will be -- that you'll make the argument
to the jury that you should discount it if the person
isn't there. That's always true.
MR. FISHER: I'm not sure I -- I disagree
with anything you said, but the rule of the
Confrontation Clause applies to a particular kind of
statements, testimonial statements. And our rule today
and the one that resolves this case is, if the State
wants to introduce a witness's testimonial statements,
it needs to bring that witness to court.
Now, footnote 1 in Melendez-Diaz -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now, I take it it's a
testimonial statement that this blood that was taken at
the hospital was the blood of the defendant. That's a
testimonial statement?
MR. FISHER: Yes, I believe it would be,
Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And so I assume that in
this case, the nurse and the police officer were both
present.
MR. FISHER: Yes, and, in fact -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I assume under your
position, you could not have a record showing that
the -- the nurse withdrew the sample at 10:08 p.m. on
such-and-such a date and that she followed the regular
procedure. That would be insufficient if the State
wanted to introduce just a certificate or just -- just
that record?
MR. FISHER: I think that's what footnote 1
in Melendez-Diaz says. If the defendant wants to
challenge the chain of custody, then the State needs to
bring in the witnesses. Now, I think it's an
interesting fact in this case, and it shows why that
rule isn't so -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that's not -- I don't
think that's what Melendez-Diaz' footnote 1 says. It
says that the State may be able to prove chain of
custody by testimony other than the actual individuals
who handled the sample, and then it has to take its
chances as to whether the trier of fact is going to
believe -- is going to believe that. Isn't that right?
MR. FISHER: I think that's right. I think
what footnote 1 says is the defendant -- when the State
chooses whose testimony it wants to introduce, the
defendant has the right to insist that that be done
live.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It does -- it does not -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does not Melendez-Diaz also
say that if the defendant wants to challenge the -- the
chain of custody, the State can adopt rules that
requires the defendant to assert that challenge or his
intention to make that challenge, or his intention to
make that challenge, prior to the trial so that the
State will know whether it has to introduce any live
testimony?
MR. FISHER: Of course, that's correct under
the notice and demand regimes that Melendez-Diaz
approved of. And the Public -- the PDS brief in this
case showed that many States do use those regimes. Now,
Justice Kennedy, I did want to -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the chain -- the chain
of custody does involve a testimonial statement that
this is the blood, that I took it out at 10:05 p.m. on
Saturday evening. That's a testimonial statement. It's
the defendant's blood.
MR. FISHER: Yes, it can, Justice Kennedy,
but chain of custody is proved by live witnesses every
day in -- every day in courtrooms across the country -
JUSTICE BREYER: But it's not just -
MR. FISHER: -- long before Melendez-Diaz or
Crawford.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's not just chain of
custody. I think the Chief Justice is trying to get at
this problem, or I am: Lab technician Jones looks at a
vial, and it's blue. She says to Smith, "it's blue."
Smith turns a lever on a machine to B.
Jason sees the B and goes into court -- you
make him go into court; that's our case. And what I
wonder is, is the defendant now entitled to the
following instruction: Jury, because he's in court, he
can say that the machine read B, but that proves nothing
about the vial, nothing. All it proves is what someone
said in the laboratory to another person, and those two
people aren't in court.
Now, that's -- you see, that's the problem,
I think, of the intermediate step. I'd either like to
be told I'm wrong about that, you don't have to have
them, or explain whatever you'd like.
MR. FISHER: If I understand your
hypothetical correctly, I think that if the defendant
wanted -- the defendant can certainly make that argument
to a jury, and the defendant, if he wanted to insist -
if the prosecution wanted to tie the results -- let's
bring it back to the facts of this case -- wanted to tie
the .21 to Mr. Bullcoming by saying that was
Mr. Bullcoming's sample, then they'd need to bring
somebody into court if the defendant insisted upon it.
But the one thing I want to add is that the
Public Defender Service brief makes clear, and the facts
of this case make clear, it's going to be very rare that
a defendant wants to do that. The defendant in this
case wanted to stipulate to the nurse's blood draw and
that it was his blood that was drawn in the hospital.
It was the State that insisted on putting her on the
stand. It happens in courtrooms all across the country.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but if you want to
tell us, don't worry, it won't happen, I think that's an
unacceptable argument. You're saying the defense has
certain rights, and we have to presume there is a
defense attorney who's going to afford his client every
right the Constitution has. So the fact that we're not
supposed to worry because it won't happen very often is
(a) it seems to me, an unlikely hypothetical; and (b) it
seems to me, irrelevant to your argument.
MR. FISHER: Well, Justice Kennedy, I will
gladly accept (b) if we want to say that consequences
are irrelevant, because I think that's what -- the Sixth
Amendment is what it is, but I think the only thing I
would add is that all I can say is, empirically, in the
States that have followed the rule we advocate today,
long before Crawford or Melendez-Diaz, it simply is a
manageable burden. I'm not saying it's no burden. But
it is a thoroughly manageable -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Fisher, I thought -- I
thought the Court put this worry behind us in Crawford.
Wasn't the same worry raised in Crawford?
MR. FISHER: Well, I think it was raised
even more pointedly in Melendez-Diaz when it comes to
lab analysts. I think in both places the Court, yes,
set that aside.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Said, yes, it may be
something of a risk, but the States have managed it in
the past, and there's no reason to think they can't
manage it in the future.
MR. FISHER: I think that's what
Melendez-Diaz -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, there are
different types of hearsay involved here or different
types of statements. There's the report itself, which
was Exhibit 1 that was introduced, and it has certain
certifications by the analyst, that he followed certain
procedures, et cetera. I'm assuming that you're
claiming that those -- those are the Confrontation
Clause violations, that exhibit itself, because it is
attesting or certifying to something.
MR. FISHER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The witness is not at
trial here.
MR. FISHER: Yes, Mr. Caylor's
certifications in this -- in the lab report, not only
that the blood -- that the blood had a .21 blood alcohol
content, but also that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that's where I
want -
MR. FISHER: Oh, but -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That -- the "also" is
what I summarized in saying that he followed certain
procedures, that it was in accordance with law, et
cetera.
MR. FISHER: And also that it was
Mr. Bullcoming's blood sample and that the sample had
not been tampered with.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right.
MR. FISHER: That's the totality of the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right.
JUSTICE ALITO: But as to those persons
who -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now -- if I might just
finish my question.
JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. Go ahead. Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume that the
raw data, the graphs that were made, were reviewed by a
separate witness, and he reviewed the data and says,
this data shows that the blood level concentration was
.21, or two-point whatever it was. Would that violate
the Confrontation Clause, using the raw data itself?
MR. FISHER: I want to be clear that raw -
by "raw data," you mean the printout from a machine?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The printout from the
machine.
MR. FISHER: It's used a few different ways
in the briefing.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That wasn't introduced
here; am I correct?
MR. FISHER: It was neither -- it was not
introduced, and there's nothing in the record to show
that Mr. Razatos even reviewed it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. But let's
assume -
MR. FISHER: So what he did is just read the
report.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume he just
took the raw data at trial. I know we now have a chain
of custody, and someone will have to prove that this is
the data related -
MR. FISHER: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- to Mr. Bullcoming.
But if that expert then read that data and testified
that this was of a certain amount or percentage of
alcohol, would that violate the Confrontation Clause?
MR. FISHER: Probably not. Provided, as you
say, the chain of custody had been either properly
proved or stipulated to, I think an expert could take
the stand and say, I'm looking at a graph, and here's
what the graph shows me. Now, you might get into -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that's what -- that's
the New Mexico Supreme Court suggested, didn't they?
They said bring the printout from the gas -- whatever -
chromatograph, and then have an expert who was not the
one who certified -- it was not Caylor -- but that
here's the graph that came out of the machine, and this
is the way this process operates.
I -- in your answer to Justice Sotomayor,
did you mean to agree with the New Mexico Supreme Court
when they said printout plus an analyst who didn't do
this particular run but knows how the process works?
MR. FISHER: No, Justice Ginsburg. I'm
certainly not here today to agree with the New Mexico
Supreme Court. What they said doesn't -- doesn't make
any sense in this case because (a) the printout was
never introduced into evidence or looked at, and (b) it
would matter a great deal -- and this is how I continue
my answer. It mattered a great deal what was on the
printout. If the printout is nothing more than a graph,
then I don't think you can say that's a testimonial
statement. If a printout comes out of a machine that
also says at the top blood sample was Donald
Bullcoming's, here's the test that was run, et cetera,
those may well be testimonial statements that the
analyst triggered the machine to spit out.
So the Fourth Circuit has wrestled with this
issue in the Washington case, and you can -- you can
look at the majority and the dissenting opinions in that
case. I think that the question would arise in that
scenario, if the graphs were -- if the machine printouts
were introduced into evidence, the question would be,
are the machine printouts testimonial? And to the
extent they are, you'd have the same problem in this
case. To the extent they are not -- as the Fourth
Circuit suggested, at least to some degree they may not
be -- then you don't have a -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What part -
MR. FISHER: -- Confrontation Clause
problem.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What part do you see as
testimonial or not? What can an outside expert look at?
MR. FISHER: I think an expert can look at
anything. The only question is what's introduced into
evidence. There's no -- there's no Confrontation
Clause -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I -- that -
MR. FISHER: -- barring an expert from
reviewing whatever he wants.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There's two different
issues: one, what can be introduced into evidence,
which is the reports themselves; and what can he or she
testify to is a different question. That's a form of
evidence. And so that's the line I'm trying to get you
to describe for me, which is, when does that testimony
become a violation of the Confrontation Clause?
MR. FISHER: In one of two scenarios,
Justice Sotomayor, the first which is the scenario we
have in this case, when the report is introduced and
it's testimonial. The second -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume the
hypothetical I proffered.
MR. FISHER: The second is that it's not
introduced. Then you have a Confrontation Clause
violation if the expert -- and this is the words many
lower courts have used -- is a mere conduit for
introducing the out-of-court testimonial statement.
So -
JUSTICE ALITO: Could we break this down in
-- in this way? I see three things that the -- three
statements that the -- the State was attempting to -- to
prove. The first was that the sample that was tested
was the sample that was taken from the defendant.
Second was that the standard procedures were followed in
this case, and the third was that the result was .21.
Would you agree with that? Those are the three things?
MR. FISHER: I think there's one other
thing, Justice Alito, which is that the sample had not
been tampered with -
JUSTICE ALITO: All right.
MR. FISHER: -- or contaminated.
JUSTICE ALITO: That the sample had not been
tampered with. Now, as to the first three, in other
words, everything other than the results, could the
State prove those things without having -- simply by
introducing testimony regarding the way things were
generally done in the lab, and ask the jury to infer
that the general procedures were followed in this
particular case?
MR. FISHER: I think that would be a
question of State law, Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: It wouldn't be a
Confrontation -
MR. FISHER: It wouldn't be a Confrontation
Clause question.
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. Now, in this
case, as I read the record, it seems to me that's what
the prosecutor was attempting to do. This is on page 50
of the Joint Appendix. The analyst is beginning to
testify, the second answer on page 50: So what we do is
we will get the sample in the mail, et cetera.
The analyst is beginning to testify about
standard lab procedures, and then defense attorney says,
"Your Honor, I'm going to object to what's done in the
status quo." I take that to mean what is generally
done. "I don't object to what was done in this case."
So the defense attorney is preventing -- is
objecting to the prosecution's attempting to discharge
its responsibility with respect to those first three
propositions through testimony about standard
procedures, and is insisting that the analyst provide
the testimony that you say was a violation of the
Confrontation Clause; namely, testifying as to what was
done in this particular case.
MR. FISHER: Justice Alito, I think if you
look earlier in the Joint Appendix, I believe it's at
page 40, where the State for the first time says we're
going to put Mr. Razatos on the stand instead of Mr.
Caylor, there's a -- there's an objection there as well
that says you can't then put the document into evidence
that Mr. Caylor wrote if he's not going to be on the
stand. That's the critical objection here.
Now, you're right, there's nothing wrong
with Mr. Razatos having taken the stand in this case,
there's nothing wrong with him having described typical
procedures in the lab. I think the objection you're
pointing was to the one that said -- again, as far as
the State law objection, saying he can't testify to
something he doesn't have personal knowledge about,
which is whether the procedures were followed in this
case. But Mr. -- Mr. Razatos could certainly take the
stand and testify to -- to general procedures. But at
page 54 and 55 of the Joint Appendix, he -- he simply
reads the report's results.
And so you have two Confrontation Clause
violations, really. You have the report being
introduced in the first instance, and then you have -- I
believe it's at 54 and 55 of the Joint Appendix. You
have the prosecutor asking Mr. Razatos, what was the
result? He says the result was .21. As the State
itself says at page 58, note 15 of its brief, there was
no independent analysis being applied there. All Mr.
Razatos was doing was repeating and giving the jury the
conclusions that Mr. Caylor had reached.
JUSTICE ALITO: But if the -- if the machine
had expelled a piece of paper that said .21, that piece
of paper would not be a -- introduction of that piece of
paper, the contents of the piece of paper, would not be
a violation of the Confrontation Clause?
MR. FISHER: If it said nothing more than
the .21 coming out of the machine, I think probably not.
Now, judge Michael in the First Circuit would disagree;
and so that's an issue that's not in this case, and I
think you could debate whether that should -- even that
should be considered hearsay of the operator.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, how can -- how can you
debate it? The purpose of the Confrontation Clause is
to allow cross-examination. How are you going to
cross-examine the machine?
MR. FISHER: Well -- well, the question that
would arise there would be whether the .21 should be
treated as Mr. Caylor's statement. Let me -- if I give
you two hypotheticals, maybe it explains. On the one
hand, I don't think anyone would claim that a time stamp
on a fax machine, for example, is a human statement.
It's a machine statement, and so therefore it can't be
testimonial. On the other hand, if someone types out an
affidavit on a word processor and hits print, you can't
say, well, that's the machine talking, not the human.
So the question arises in the lab context
whether a .21 or anything else that comes out of the
machine has enough human influence that it ought to be
treated as the -- as the person's statement.
Now, you don't have to resolve that in this
case, and what's important to emphasize is that that
hypothetical of the .21, even though the State would
like it to be this case, is really miles away for the
reason you said, because the State proved a lot more
than .21 by Mr. Caylor's lab report, and that's why
these hypotheticals I think are important.
JUSTICE ALITO: But all of those other
things could potentially be proven by indirect evidence,
by establishing standard procedures and asking the jury
to infer that the standard procedures were followed in
this case. They might -- they might believe that; they
might not -
MR. FISHER: The State could -
JUSTICE ALITO: They might make the
inference; they might not.
MR. FISHER: The State could make that
choice, but it would be a considerably weaker case,
Justice Alito, not just because they wouldn't have
anyone saying that the procedures were actually followed
in this case, but also in this case it would be a far
weaker case because they'd have somebody on the stand
who would now be subject to cross-examination as to why
he had been recently put on unpaid leave.
JUSTICE ALITO: But as to this case, didn't
the defendant actually testify that he was drunk at the
time of -- at the time when the blood was extracted? He
took the stand and he testified that after the accident
he went off into the woods and he came upon people who
were drinking vodka and he drank, they drank -- what was
it -- a gallon of vodka together, and then he went back
to the scene and his blood was tested?
MR. FISHER: That was -
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that correct?
MR. FISHER: That was his defense, Justice
Alito, and here's why the lab report is still important,
though. Because you're right, he did admit he was
drunk. But remember, he was not convicted simply of
DUI; he was convicted in New Mexico law of aggravated
DUI. And to have aggravated DUI you need to have up to
a .16 blood alcohol count. So the report is the only
the State could have proved over .16, even if Mr.
Bullcoming admitted that he had been drinking that day.
So that's why it's important in this case.
That's why he wanted to challenge -- that's one reason
why he wanted to challenge the report.
Let me come back to the -- to the important
point, I think, though, that what the State wants to be
able to do -- I don't want to ascribe a bad motive, but
what the State's rule would allow States to do is to
insulate people from cross-examination, not just Mr.
Caylor in this case, but -- but -- but please pay
attention to, for example, the Dungo case that's cited
in our opening brief, from California. That's a case
where a coroner had been fired from his job, blacklisted
by law enforcement, and prohibited from testifying in
many counties because he falsified his reports, his
autopsy reports, by writing them with the police report
sitting right next to him.
JUSTICE ALITO: But the State can't -
MR. FISHER: And -
JUSTICE ALITO: The State can't immunize
those people from testifying. You could have subpoenaed
Caylor, couldn't you? You could have asked for a
continuance and -- and a subpoena, and brought him in to
testify? It's just a question of who has to take the
step, right?
MR. FISHER: Well, we -- we could have, but
Melendez-Diaz makes clear that doesn't satisfy the
Confrontation Clause. And when you deal especially with
a garden variety DUI case there is only so much time and
resources at issue, and that's why the Confrontation
Clause I think is especially important in a case like
this, that the prosecution bring its witnesses into
court.
And if I could just finish the Dungo story,
in the -- in the California Court of Appeal, when they
reviewed that case, they said the prosecutor's intent in
that case had been to shield Mr. -- I'm sorry, the -
the actual analyst in that case from cross-examination.
And, in fact, the supervisor when he took the stand at
the preliminary hearing told -- told the court the
reason why they have me here is the prosecutors find it
too hard to have this person in court. So that would be
perfectly permissible, if -- if the State win this case
today and surrogate testimony were allowed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you answer the
practical situation that Caylor, who did this particular
run, does some dozens day in and day out, and he will
have no memory, in fact, of this particular test. So
having him there -- he knows how the process operates;
he doesn't remember this particular one -- how does
having him there -- what could be elicited on
cross-examination of him that couldn't be from his
supervisor?
MR. FISHER: Let me give you two answers,
Justice Ginsburg, but first let me say we don't know
whether somebody doesn't remember it until he's put on
the stand. What the NACDL brief says is that even
though analysts don't ordinary remember run-of-the-mill
tests like this, that do remember if something went
wrong or if something went haywire. So we don't know
that.
But assuming you're right that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wasn't it the case that
these tests are unusual in this particular jurisdiction?
MR. FISHER: That's my understanding,
Justice Scalia. So that's another reason why he may
have remembered.
But even if he didn't, there's two things
that could be importantly probed here. One is his
credibility. And I've explained why that was a very
serious issue in this case, because he was put on unpaid
leave.
The other is his competence. Again,
Melendez-Diaz says it's important to have the person on
the stand to explain how he does his job, for the jury
to observe his professionalism, for him to explain
here's my understanding of these procedures, et cetera.
That could be very important, and if I could leave you
with one thing before I -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I assume that even if
he doesn't remember, his testimony is not worthless to
the prosecution. He -- the prosecution can bring out
his high qualifications, and he can testify: It -- this
is always the way I do it. I do it this way all the
time. I don't remember this particular incident.
All of that can be persuasive to the jury,
can't it?
MR. FISHER: Of course, it can, Justice
Scalia. And on the flip side, even if he doesn't
remember, cross-examination is very important.
If I could leave you with one thing that I
think isn't highlighted in the brief maybe the way it
should have been. There's a line of cases from this
Court, California v. Green, Delaware v. Fensterer, and
United States v. Owens, that all hold that if a witness
takes the stand and doesn't remember anything, that the
Confrontation Clause is still -- is still satisfied, as
long as that witness is on the stand for the reason
Justice Scalia explained and because the jury can
observe them, et cetera.
And so, the flip side of that has to be -
it's the holding of Owens most recently is that those
are meaningful things that the Confrontation Clause
requires. And so the flip side of those cases has to be
that if the witness takes the stand and doesn't
remember, the ineffectiveness potentially of a
cross-examination there doesn't matter, either.
If I could reserve what little time I have
left.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Fisher.
General King.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GARY K. KING
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. KING: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
As the Court said in Michigan v. Bryant, a
police interrogation resembles an ex parte examination
when the primary purpose of the examination is to
create, quote, an out-of-court substitute for trial
testimony, end quote.
A public record not prepared by a police
officer is not the product of structured interrogation.
It is neither ex parte nor is it an examination.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that.
You mean so long as all -- all hearsay by non-police
officers can be admitted without, without confrontation,
just because they're not police officers?
MR. KING: No, Your Honor, I don't believe
that that's the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't think that was
your point, because it's certainly not true, is it?
MR. KING: It is not my point, Your Honor.
Your Honor, the point that I am making is
that in this case, the document, the report that we're
talking about is a public record, and that
differentiates it from the affidavit in Melendez-Diaz,
and so the case that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry, could you
tell me what that means? Why is it different than the
affidavit? It's certified, and my understanding of the
dictionary meaning of certification is that that's an
attestation as to the truth of the statements contained
therein. That's the common definition.
So I'm assuming it's the equivalent of an
affidavit. So how is it different than the
Melendez-Diaz lab report?
MR. KING: Your Honor, and I understand, and
I'll answer your question with regard to your
expectation that the certification is the same as the
affidavit. It's not our position that they're exactly
the same, but there are several -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me why not.
MR. KING: There are other distinguishing -
distinguishing features that are significant between the
affidavit in Melendez-Diaz and the report in this case.
For one, the affidavit in Melendez-Diaz was prepared
pursuant to an statute in Massachusetts that called for
the preparation of an affidavit from the lab at some
point in time after the actual test was done, and it was
to be used specifically as an in-court statement to
replace the live in-court testimony of the affiant.
In our case, the report being a public
record was a record that is kept contemporaneously by
the analyst in the lab, it is, in this case, the .21 is
a single data point that is taken from the raw data in
the machine and recorded on a standard document that's
provided by the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can any -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that was prepared just
for fun, not for use in trial?
MR. KING: No, Your Honor. I believe
that -- that that statement is planned to be used in
trial, and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So what difference does it
make whether the statute requires it to be taken to be
used at trial or whether the police send it over to be
used at trial as a use of the State? What difference
does that make?
MR. KING: Your Honor, I think the key is to
look at the purpose of the analyst who was preparing the
report, who is a public employee, who is just carrying
out, as our court said, copying the information from the
machine onto the report. And so, that's significantly
different than the amount of analysis that was done
by -- by the -- the witness in -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. He's not
simply looking at a number and putting it on a report.
He's certifying to certain things. He's certifying to
following certain steps, that the evidence wasn't
tampered with. He's certifying that he's complied with
all the requirements of New Mexico law with respect to
the report, so he's just not copying a number.
MR. KING: That's correct, Your Honor.
In -- in this case the certification doesn't necessarily
make the report testimonial. There -- there are several
other examples of -- of cases where -- where evidence is
introduced at court that -- that have certifications.
For instance, it may be necessary for a
public records custodian to provide a copy of a birth
certificate in -- in a trial, and in that case, the
custodian always has a certification that says I
certify -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't the difference
between those two documents is that one was prepared
primarily for the purposes -- this lab report, for
prosecution purposes, and the birth certificate is not
prepared for that? It's prepared to mark the birth of a
person, then it's used for many other purposes besides
trial; is that correct?
MR. KING: That is correct with regard to
the birth -- birth certificate, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So tell me what makes
this certificate not primarily for the purpose of use in
the prosecution of an individual? Would they have
tested this blood if -- if it wasn't to prosecute him?
MR. KING: Your Honor, in -- in this case,
no. This -- this case is all about a sample that was
sent to the lab to be tested for this. But I think you
made it clear in Michigan v. Bryant that -- that there
might be a variety of purposes that should be analyzed
in order to decide whether or not the statement is
testimonial or not.
In this case, the purpose of the -- of the
lab analyst is significantly different from the purpose
of the police officer who requested the analysis. The
lab analyst does this for a living, and it's -- it's
their public duty. The lab in this case is -- is
operated by the State Department of Health, scientific
lab division, and -- and they do a variety of different
kinds of analysis.
And so, the -- the analyst who does the test
wouldn't necessarily have the same purpose in -- in
creating their statement for that document. As a matter
of fact, the analyst would most likely be driven by the
desire as a scientist -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does he do any testing
except for the police?
MR. KING: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Who else do they test
for?
MR. KING: This lab also tests for, in this
particular case, the gas chromatograph analyses of blood
alcohol, they test for the office of the medical
examiner and -- and under New Mexico law, interestingly
enough, the -- the defendant can also ask for a test.
They would use the same form to ask for this test.
So, the analysis might be being done for a
defendant as well as for the State.
JUSTICE ALITO: Are these lab analysts civil
service employees? Are the lab analysts civil service
employees?
MR. KING: Yes, Your Honor, they are. They
work for the New Mexico Department of Health.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is there any way in which
your office or prosecutors or the police could cause
them not to get promotions if they weren't producing the
kind of lab reports that the police and the prosecution
might like?
MR. KING: No, Your Honor, they could not.
As a matter of fact, there -- there is a separation
between the operation of the Department of Health lab
and the police that even extends to the point of a
physical separation. Police officers are not allowed
into the lab area where -- where they are -
JUSTICE SCALIA: This analyst was fired, as
I recall. Was he fired, placed on administrative leave
or something?
MR. KING: No, Your Honor, the record
indicates that -- that Mr. Caylor was not available for
court because he was on leave without pay, which -
JUSTICE SCALIA: On leave without pay?
MR. KING: Uh-huh.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And do we know why it was
leave without pay?
MR. KING: We don't know why, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does the defense know why
it was leave without pay? Could the defense have found
out in cross-examination that the reason he was leave
without pay because he was -- had shown himself to be
incompetent, and they were in the process of firing him?
I don't know whether that's true, but wouldn't that be
important to the defense?
MR. KING: Your Honor, I -- I think that the
defense would like to know the answer to that question.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And didn't -- and didn't
the prosecution intentionally set it up this way so that
this person would not have to testify, so that he could
not be cross-examined? Isn't that why they sent the
substitute to testify?
MR. KING: No, Your Honor. In this case,
that's -- that's not the case. I -- the -- this case
came about in a little bit of an unusual circumstance,
because both sides had been negotiating a plea agreement
and when the -- when the plea agreement was not
successful, the defendant asked for the trial to be
expedited and moved quickly to trial. So the defendant
didn't do as much discovery, I think, as you would
normally do in a case like that, but -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know what the facts
are, but boy, it smells bad to me. It really does. And
even if that was not the case, the mere possibility that
it could have been the case shows why you should have to
bring this person in if you want to introduce his
testimony.
MR. KING: Your Honor, I think that the key
here is that if you would not look at the -- at any of
the qualities of the declarant in deciding whether the
statement is testimonial or not. And so once -- once
the Court makes the determination as to whether it is
testimonial or not, you wouldn't -- even if you would
like to ask those questions, you wouldn't have the
opportunity to ask those questions.
In this case, factually, it might also be
that Mr. Caylor was on unpaid leave because he had run
out of his regular leave time, and he decided to do
that. We -- it would all be speculation -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I agree that whether it's
testimonial does not depend upon whether there's
skullduggery or not, but the possibility of
skullduggery, even in machine -- machine situations such
as this, is a good reason for saying this is
testimonial.
MR. KING: Your Honor, I think that's why
it's -- it's important that this is a public records
case, because that is one of the assumptions that courts
have made for hundreds of years with regard to the fact
that there is -- there is a duty by the person who's
taking down the information to -- to observe in a
regular manner, to record in a regular manner, and so
that's important here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was the principal
thrust of your brief, that this isn't testimonial at
all. You have not said because it was unsworn, because
you recognize the certification is the same, but you're
trying to equate it to a business record, public record?
MR. KING: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You do have the hurdle
that this record was created for a specific purpose. It
was created to provide evidence for use in a criminal
prosecution.
MR. KING: Your Honor, I don't believe that
that is the only purpose that this form 705 could be
used for. It is the common purpose for this form, but
it is a form that the lab uses in every circumstance.
And indeed, as I said, in New Mexico law, the defendant
can ask for a second test. They can have that done.
It's done at the State's expense. They can have it done
at any laboratory that they want to.
But if they have the report done at the
State lab, and they're entitled to have that done, they
would utilize the same form.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, does the -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, what are the other -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does the analyst
know whether he's being asked to do one for the
prosecution or the defendant?
MR. KING: Not necessarily, Your Honor. I
-- I actually don't know the answer to that specifically
except that the form -- and if you look at it, it's in
the Joint Appendix -- does have some information in part
A that -- that indicates that there is a police officer
that -- that sent the test to the lab. There's a nurse
that did that in this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, so they would
know the difference, right?
MR. KING: They -- I think that the same
information would be on the form whether the defendant
submitted it or whether the -- or whether the
prosecution submitted it, and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, not the same
information. One would say the police submitted it and
the other one would say the defendant submitted it,
right?
MR. KING: Your Honor -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So if the police submitted
it, the -- the person doing the -- the test would know
that the police submitted it, I assume.
MR. KING: If you look at the form, Your
Honor, it would have the same information, but we're
not -- we're not here today arguing that the analyst
wouldn't know that the police submitted this form. But
it is an arm's length request, and once again, the Court
addressed that in your most recent case, in Michigan v.
Bryant, I believe because the -- the question is whether
or not there was an interrogation. One of the key
questions is whether there was an interrogation.
This clearly does not look like a case where
there was an interrogation by the police. It was a
request on a standard form that was -- that was sent.
And so the purpose test, it appears from Michigan v.
Bryant, would not even apply in cases where there's not
a police interrogation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is a key question
whether this was an interrogation? Does the
Confrontation Clause apply only to confrontations? To
interrogations? I mean, if a -- if a witness, before
the police ask any questions, blurts out, you know,
"Jones did it," can that statement get in because it has
not been in response to an interrogation?
MR. KING: Your Honor, the analysis would be
somewhat different. That's the point, is that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It would be different
because interrogation doesn't make any difference. That
is not the condition for the application of the -- of
the Confrontation Clause.
MR. KING: Your Honor, we -- it appears that
it does make some difference with regard to Michigan v.
Bryant, and it's new to all of us.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If it were an
interrogation, the factors mentioned in Michigan v.
Bryant would be relevant, presumably, but since this
wasn't an interrogation, I don't see how that has any -
any relevance whatever.
MR. KING: Well, the relevance, Your Honor,
I think, is since it's not an interrogation, then -
then you have to look at, and I think the Court has set
this out, you have to look at the nature of the evidence
and to make a determination as to whether the evidence
that's being presented is merely a substitute for live,
in-court testimony.
And there, back to the difference between
the affidavit in Melendez-Diaz and the report in this
case is, in our report, even if Mr. Caylor had been at
the trial and on the stand, it would have been necessary
to have the report as well. I think Justice Ginsburg
raised this point, is that six months after the
examination was done, to cross-examine the analyst and
ask him, do you remember what the result was six months
ago from this one test out of a hundred that he ran, he
will not remember without looking at the report. The
report is the best evidence in this case to prove the
point that is being made here, and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, he'd look at the
report and say, gee, I don't remember; you know, I do a
lot of these reports. But then the prosecution in
direct would say, well, how do you do them? And he
would say, I always do this, I always do that, I always
do the other thing. Did you do it in this case? Well,
I don't specifically remember this case, but I always do
it. And that's the testimony that would go to the jury.
It would be pretty persuasive. Not as good as if he did
remember.
MR. KING: That's correct, Your Honor, and
so that's why the analysis of whether this is
testimonial or not is such an important analysis,
because if the -- the reasoning that the Court has had
for all of the hearsay exceptions, for excited
utterances or, in this case, for a public record, would
look at whether or not that evidence was the best
evidence to support the truth-finding purpose of the
trial. That's our -- that's our analysis, at least,
Your Honor.
And what we are arguing in this case is that
there is no difference between Mr. Caylor transferring
the .21 data from the machine to the piece of paper than
there would be if you took a photograph, for instance,
of the machine data and -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why did you give the
data to the analyst at trial? If there wasn't a more
persuasive power in the lab certification, why didn't
you just have the new expert look at the printout from
the graph and say, this is what it says?
MR. KING: Procedurally, in this case, Your
Honor, this -- the trial at the District Court level
occurred before the Court's opinion in Melendez-Diaz.
And so I think that at this point in time, that it would
be more normal behavior for the -- for the State to
present the raw data as well.
In this case, Mr. Razatos -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's that as well.
Don't you introduce the lab report because it -- it
gives more credence to the reliability of the result?
Because he's certifying that he followed certain
procedures, that he did certain things, that the sample
wasn't tampered with?
MR. KING: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is it -- you're looking
for that testimony, correct? You're looking, at trial,
to that testimony to bolster the test?
MR. KING: Not using testimony in the sense
that we're talking about testimony here. I mean, you
might want that -- very well want that evidence in, not
different from other cases where if you had a -- it was
necessary to submit the judgment of a felony, for
instance, to show that a person in a later trial was a
felon with -- a felon in possession of a firearm, you
would have a certification from the court clerk that
would say, I certify that the copy of this document that
I'm submitting to the court is a true copy of -- that's
also not testimonial from -- for the purposes of the
Confrontation Clause I don't believe.
JUSTICE BREYER: You might want that in
order to show the machine says X, Y, Z, but that's only
as good as the stuff that was put into it. So you're
going to have to show that this was his blood put into
it. And many, many people might have handled it, and
there might be a routine so that they all check a box
when it's sealed and they get it.
Is it your understanding if you lose these
cases -- this case that you then have to take into court
all those people?
MR. KING: That's certainly a concern, Your
Honor. I -- if you look at this document, there are six
or seven people who have certifications on the -- on the
dire -- different statements on the document. There are
three certifications; there's one from the -- from the
woman who takes the samples into the lab that says she
received the samples; there's this one from Mr. Caylor;
there's one from -- from the reviewing analyst who
reviews it; and I gather that the -- that the Petitioner
is only challenging the -- that one certification
from -- from -- from Mr. Caylor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The chain of custody wasn't
-- wasn't contested here, was it?
MR. KING: It was not. And this document -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it often contested? My
impression is it's not very often contested.
MR. KING: I'm not aware of it being
contested often, Your Honor, I -- and this form I think
is one of the things in New Mexico that really helps
with that. The reason that the court submitted the form
is that you have everything relating to the chain of
evidence on -- on one document, and -- and so indeed a
lot of those statements really help -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but the reason I asked
the question is because I don't think it is normally
contested. It's normally a business record of some
kind.
However, what I was looking for is a
distinction, because in the future I don't see why it
wouldn't be contested, unless there's a distinction.
MR. KING: Yes, Your Honor, and I think that
the distinction is that in this case the -- the analyst
is not essentially a party to the action. The analyst
works arm's-length transaction from -- from the -- from
the police and from the prosecutors, and so he's not
part of the prosecution team, is -- is how I've been
thinking about it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: General, I know your State
takes a different view of it or you wouldn't be here,
but aren't there are a number of States that -- that do
provide the testimony of the technician, who do require
the technician to come in and -- and testify?
MR. KING: Your Honor, I believe that there
are other States that have statutes that -- that have
different ways of presenting evidence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And have they had, to your
knowledge, serious problems about defendants contesting
chain of custody simply because this other thing is
required? Again, I'm -- I'm not aware that that's been
a problem. I think it's a boogeyman.
MR. KING: Your Honor, we -- we understand
that -- that the -- that the burden on the State is -
is not an issue that comes directly into the analysis
relating to the Confrontation Clause. I -- in New
Mexico, for instance, one of the problems that we have
is that -- is that the lab's centrally located in
Albuquerque and the -- and in this case the trial was in
San Juan County, so -- so the witness has to drive for
about 3 hours to get to where the courthouse is. So
that's sort of different in New Mexico than, say, in
Massachusetts or something like that. And -- and even
for 10 minutes worth of testimony, they might have to
drive 6 hours and take a whole day out of the lab.
So it -- it is a problem that -- that is
there, but I don't think that it is the seminal issue
that -
JUSTICE BREYER: Are there States -- are
there States that do require a -- a -- a prosecutor to
produce everyone who has handled something in a chain of
custody at a -- at a laboratory, a criminal -- you know,
normal business? Are there States that do require that?
If so, could you tell me a couple, because I -
MR. KING: Your Honor, I'm not aware of any
State that requires that everyone in the chain of
custody appear in -- in trial. It is indeed normally up
to the prosecutor with regard to chain of custody to
determine who --who is going to be appearing.
JUSTICE BREYER: What about medical reports
that are aimed at a particular known victim of a crime
and thus will end up in trial? For example, a graph, a
graph which the nurse keeps, which is a statement by the
nurse that the patient's temperature on such and such a
day was 98.6 or whatever, and normally that graph would
be introduced; but are there any States that wouldn't
require -- would say, oh, no, you have to produce the
nurse? You have to produce the doctor for all medical
records? Which of course, are known by the keeper that
they will be used at the criminal trial.
Are there any States that require that?
MR. KING: There are none that I'm aware of,
Your Honor. I -- I don't -- I haven't -
JUSTICE BREYER: Are there any States that
require ordinary business records perhaps of the most
ordinary kind, which always are statements that somebody
did something on a particular day? When those business
records happen to be kept before with the knowledge that
they'll probably be introduced at the trial, are there
States that require the man or woman who made the
business record to come into court?
MR. KING: No, Your Honor, and I think
that's the point of all of those. State law has their
-- their hearsay law that -- that analyzed whether those
statements are admissible.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I -- I don't think
that's an accurate response, at least if you include the
qualification that Justice Breyer put in the question,
which is that the records were kept with the knowledge
that they would be introduced in -- in criminal trials.
I mean, you can say that all the records of
labs -- let's assume there's a -- there's a police lab
which -- which only does police testing of blood. Those
would be business records of the lab, but they certainly
would not be introducible just because they're business
records. If the record is made for the use in
prosecution, surely it's -- it doesn't come under the
business records exception, or else we wouldn't be here
today.
MR. KING: Your Honor, I think the
hypothetical that -- that you say really shows where the
line is. If -- if the lab is a police lab and only
doing the analysis for the police, then they -- they
look a lot more like a party to the -- to the lawsuit,
and certainly the hearsay exceptions have made it clear
that even though observations are -- are generally -
that are public records are generally allowed, that
observations by police officers are not.
And -- and so -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's an independent lab and
police always send it to this independent lab, but in
fact it's an independent business, it makes a profit;
but all the stuff it does it knows is going to be used
at trial. That wouldn't be admissible, would it? Even
though it's a perfectly normal business record.
MR. KING: Your Honor, I think that that
depends on -- on how you look at the purpose and whose
purpose it is that -- that you're analyzing. Now first
off that, would assume that the purpose test applies in
this case, and it seems to me since Michigan v. Bryant
that the purpose test may not apply to these kinds of
cases where -- where there's not a police interrogation.
But if -- if that is the case and the
purpose test applies, then it -- it also appears to me
that the -- that the test now requires that -- that you
look not just at the purpose of the policeman who -
who's asking the question, but that you look at the
purpose of the declarant, and in this case the purpose
of the labs clearly is -- is a purpose just to -- to get
the sample, do a good analysis, and -- and report that
analysis to, in New Mexico's case, both parties.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -
MR. KING: The analysis that comes from our
State lab goes not only to the prosecution but also to
the defendant.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General, we seem to be
describing -- this case seemed rather particular, that
is, there was no objection by New Mexico to having an
analyst show up, Razatos; so -- so he had to travel
however long he said. It's just a question of one
employee's time rather than the other.
But -- and then you described how simple
this thing was, you just put it in a machine, you would
get out a piece of paper. Why didn't New Mexico have
this -- there was an additional sample that could have
been -- it would have been si simple to just retest it.
Having the witness come to the court, why don't you arm
him with the additional test, and then there would be no
controversy?
MR. KING: Your Honor, one of the problems
in New Mexico would be since -- since the court believed
that -- that that report was -- was admissible, if they
did a second sample and --- and tried to submit that it
would be cumulative evidence, and probably would be kept
out by -- by the rule in New Mexico in that case.
So Mr. Razatos did have an important purpose
at this trial. In New Mexico you still I believe have
to have a witness who -- who can authenticate the
document to bring the document in. It might not have
had to have been Mr. Razatos in this case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, let's say that this
Court holds that the Confrontation Clause requires the
presence of the actual analyst to testify about the
sample. Is there anything in the law that says that
that testimony is suddenly excused, and you do not need
the analyst if there's another sample available for the
defendant to test? That's not the rule, is it?
MR. KING: It's not the rule, Your Honor,
although one of the things that we pointed out is that
-- is that the State always keeps two samples, that the
defendant has the right statutorily in New Mexico to -
to have a sample retested at a lab -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I'm saying that
analytically that does not bear on the question whether
or not the sample that's introduced by the State
requires the -- the analyst to be present. They're just
unrelated.
MR. KING: Correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That may -- that may show
that the confrontation rule is a silly rule. But it
doesn't -- but it -- there's -- assuming confrontation
is required, it's not excused -
MR. KING: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- by the presence of
another sample.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I -- I don't follow that
because we have a substitute now. Caylor is out of the
picture; we know that it is the defendant's blood
because everything else is the same, and there's this
vial that has a certain amount of blood and there's a
certain amount left over, so it's not cumulative,
because Caylor's out of the picture. It is the
defendant's blood that has been lab tested by another
analyst.
MR. KING: I'm sorry, Your Honor, in -- in
your hypothetical, if -- if the State knew far enough
ahead of time that they -- they would not be able to
submit the -- the -- that analyst's results, they could
always -- because the blood sample continues to exist,
they could always retest that and -- and have another
witness who could do that. Depending on how the Court
rules in this case, it might be that States will be
required to do that.
But at this point in time under -- under the
current jurisprudence, it -- it didn't appear to the
State that they needed to retest the sample, and I think
you have to worry a little bit about -- about how many
people you might indeed have to have come into court and
testify if -- if the State -- if the burden on the State
is that you have to -- you have to sample twice just in
case you're going to lose one of your analysts, I -- I
think that that does indeed put a great burden on the
State to do that. And so -
JUSTICE SCALIA: General, I -- I don't want
to eat up your -- your little remaining time, I think
you can answer yes or no. Does New Mexico assert the
same rule as applicable to ballistics testing?
MR. KING: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why?
MR. KING: I think that you have to do the
analysis in each kind of statement that you're looking
at, Your Honor, to determine whether or not the
statement that's -- that's being made and that's being
proposed for trial is a substitute for live in-court
testimony. And so, with regard to ballistics, you know,
you would be looking at a little bit different set of
facts.
But in this case the facts are that -- that
the gas chromatograph gave us a printout that said that
the -- that the level of alcohol in the blood is .21
grams per 100 milliliters, Mr. Caylor transferred that
to a form, and that's what we are putting in.
I -- I think that -- that it proves the
point that I'm talking about, in a ballistics analysis,
you would have to have some analysis and someone to
reach a conclusion. And it's that that sets
Melendez-Diaz apart from this case, is -- is that there
was -- that there was some analysis by -- by -- by
the -- the declarant in that case. And in the
ballistics cases I think, most often, you would find
that.
Now, if the -- if in the ballistics case you
just took a photograph of the bullet and wanted to bring
that into the court and say here's what the bullet looks
like, the jury then could make a determination whether
they think that that bullet appears to be the same as
the other. That wouldn't be covered by the
Confrontation Clause.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Certainly not.
MR. KING: And -- and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you -- you -- you think
the result would be a -- the same if we could develop a
machine that you put the bullet in and -- and -- and -
that's been fired from this gun, and the murder bullet,
and the machine goes, blah, blah, blah, and it spits
out, you know, 99 percent, 99.9 percent match, that
would be okay?
MR. KING: May I answer the question, Your
Honor?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
MR. KING: In -- in that case, if -- if the
machine were able to do all of that, the machine
essentially is giving you the best evidence, yes, I
believe that that would be the case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Fisher, you have 2 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FISHER: Thank you. Let me try to make
four quick points.
First, Justice Alito, I said the first
objection was at JA 40, it's actually 44-45 in the Joint
Appendix.
With regard to the State's argument about
whether this document is testimonial, I would simply
urge the Court to take a very close look at the lab
report itself. It's at JA 62. At the top it says,
Mr. Chief Justice, in response to your question,
arresting officer identification, and the officer
writes, check for blood alcohol concentration. That's
the order to the lab.
If you look at the bottom in the
certification of analyst, he certifies that the
following is true and correct, signs his name, and
perhaps the most critical thing is at the very bottom,
the actual rules of the New Mexico evidence law and
criminal procedure law are referenced. So, it's exactly
like Melendez-Diaz. This is a document that is
expressly prepared for substitute live testimony.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not under oath, though,
that's the only difference?
MR. FISHER: Not under oath if a
certification is actually different than an oath, that
just makes this worse, as in Crawford this Court said
that it would be implausible that trial by affidavit
would be prohibited but trial by unsworn affidavit would
be okay.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do the rules of
criminal -- do the rules of criminal procedure in New
Mexico say it should be prima facie evidence?
MR. FISHER: They say much the same thing.
There are -- there are several rules referenced at the
bottom that all make this automatically admissible,
notwithstanding the hearsay rule to prove the truth of
the matter asserted.
With respect to Justice Ginsburg's question
about retesting, you are exactly right. The State had
many choices in the case -- in this case about how to
proceed. But if it wanted Mr. Razatos to be its
witness, all it had to do was have him do a -- retest it
and write a new report and have him be the witness.
There is no reason it would have to introduce
Mr. Caylor's report then and come up against any State
law issue. Mr. Razatos could have been the live
witness.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it depends on
when they do it, of course. I mean, you have the right
to look at their evidence presumably so -- so far in
advance of trial, whatever, and if they had to get a
new -- new technician, that would have to put off the
trial -
MR. FISHER: And I think that -- I'm sorry.
I think that goes to my last point, which is, Justice
Breyer, you're talking about States that do this -- I'll
combine my answer to these two things. A continuance
would have been perfectly -- perfectly appropriate if
that scenario had arisen, Mr. Chief Justice, and that's
what -- one thing the public -- Public Defender Service
brief it talks about 23 -- 26 jurisdictions encompassing
23 different States that follow the rule that we're
advocating today. And it -- we're not asking for more
witnesses. It's important that we're -- this isn't a
multiple witness problem, we're just asking for a
different witness.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. FISHER: In other words, the State just
brought the wrong witness. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:16 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
57:20 38:7 46:22 47:21,22 2:2,5,8 3:4,7 available 37:7
60:24 aimed 49:18 54:9 55:2 58:16 14:7 30:25 aware 47:6 48:13
56:13 55:6 arm's 41:20 B
analytically 54:7 arm's-length b 12:19,20,24
20:16,25 50:16 arresting 58:12 back 13:12 26:1
analyzing 51:25 ascribe 26:19 26:17 43:9
22:12 answer 7:2 18:6 aside 14:23 bad 26:19 38:13
24:3 25:3 18:16 21:22 asked 27:9 38:8 ballistics 55:25
53:21
28:7 32:11 40:18 47:13 56:8,17,23,25
27:5,7 37:22 40:21 asking 23:11 barring 19:20
58:4 55:24 57:16 25:5 52:9 60:14 basis 7:23
51:14 Appeal 27:22 asserted 59:13 21:24
51:21
APPEARANC... 20:8 29:17 31:1 58:1
59:11
54:23,24 appears 42:3,19 assuming 15:10 10:9 11:9,9
23:14 22:13 23:5,10 assumptions 40:4 41:22 46:4
35:13,18 40:23 58:6 39:13 48:7 53:15
42:13 applicable 55:25 attempted 5:25 57:22
48:17 application 42:17 attempting 20:18 believed 53:9
52:12,13 applied 23:14 21:20 22:5 best 43:19 44:12
56:4,17 applies 9:24 52:1 attention 26:23 57:21
32:3,8,13
52:6 attestation 32:5 beyond 8:19
59:3,4
15:9 18:8 appointed 1:15 attorney 1:17 34:24,24
21:21,24 appropriate 60:9 14:3 21:25 22:4 bit 38:5 55:15
27:25 33:2 approved 12:1 authenticate 56:9
35:12,14 area 37:2 53:16 blacklisted 26:25
12:6,8 7:18 13:14 16:4 48:21 52:2,5,10 46:1 claiming 15:11
15:19 18:21 52:13,20 53:13 certifying 15:13 Clause 3:12,18
16:4 bullet 57:1,2,4 53:18 55:10,19 34:1,1,3 45:11 4:14 5:2 7:6,12
18:20 57:11,12 56:11,20,22,25 cetera 15:10 9:24 15:12
26:2,11 burden 14:15,15 57:19,22 59:16 16:2 18:21 16:19 17:18
36:5 46:8 48:16 55:17,20 59:16 60:22,23 21:23 29:14 19:11,18 20:3
54:21,23 business 9:16 cases 30:5,16 30:12 20:11 21:17
56:13 39:23 47:15 34:9 42:4 45:21 chain 10:24 11:5 22:10 23:7,21
49:10 50:7,9,13 46:13 52:4 11:18 12:4,4,10 24:4 27:15,18
C 2:1 3:1 26:22 27:9 28:8 challenge 10:24 13:18 16:20
26:24 27:22 44:17 46:21,25 26:15,16 51:12
47:13 49:6 4:17,18 5:8,24 centrally 48:20 11:8 close 58:9
50:6,20 7:15 9:5,12 certain 14:2 15:8 check 46:10 closed-circuit
10:1,12 11:1 15:9,25 17:17 58:13 4:17
23:13 13:18,20 18:13 54:23,24 6:12,14,17,23 come 4:20 5:6
28:19 18:25 19:2,7 certainly 4:21 6:25 7:7,8 8:6 7:17 8:25 26:17
39:20 20:6,22 21:11 13:9 18:11 23:3 9:3 12:16 30:22 48:6 50:13 51:4
21:19 22:3,11 31:19 46:15 31:2 40:15,17 53:5 55:16
13:12 25:13,16,16,17 34:13,19,24 60:10,18,21 18:19 24:18
18:1 25:20 26:14,22 35:1 child 4:16 48:17 52:15
29:19 26:23,24 27:16 certification 32:4 choice 25:13 coming 23:23
53:17 27:18,23,24,25 32:12 34:7,14 choices 59:16 common 32:6
28:5,25 29:8 39:22 44:23 chooses 11:12 40:6
32:25 33:2 34:7 58:16 59:1 18:2 36:5 56:12 29:10
42:4,21 35:15 36:5 38:3 15:9,18 34:10 19:8 23:24 components 4:2
52:2 38:4,4,11,14 46:17,19 circumstance concentration
13:13 41:1,21,25 32:3 cited 26:23 concern 4:25
26:13 43:11,19 44:1,2 certifies 58:16 civil 36:12,13 46:15
45:1,7
copy 34:12 46:1 courtrooms 49:14,15 37:15,20,22
4:2,14 correct 11:24 covered 57:5 data 16:15,16,17 Department
7:6,12 9:24 17:2 26:4 34:6 Craig 4:15 16:19,21 17:11 35:16 36:16,24
16:19 34:22,23 44:6 Crawford 12:14 17:13,16 33:3,3 depend 39:6
19:11,17 45:16 54:11 14:14,18,19 44:18,20,22 Depending 55:9
21:15 58:17 59:2 45:6 depends 7:13
22:10 correctly 7:24 create 31:7 date 10:18 51:24 59:24
24:4 13:8 created 40:1,2 day 12:11,11 describe 20:2
30:9 counsel 15:5 creating 35:21 26:13 28:9,9 described 22:22
31:14 52:14 57:23 credence 45:10 49:2,22 50:9 52:25
46:4 60:18,21 credibility 29:7 day-to-day 7:23 describing 52:20
53:20 count 26:11 crime 5:14 49:18 deal 18:15,16 desire 35:23
57:6 counties 27:2 criminal 40:2 27:15 determination
13:23 58:20 59:7,7 decide 35:9 determine 49:16
course 4:16 9:17 8:17 decision 9:12 dictionary 32:4
29:25 50:1 critical 22:19 52:10 56:22 33:15 34:16
3:10,21 4:15,20 24:5 25:18 4:21,22,24 5:1 58:24
13:2,15 14:18 37:16 12:22 13:8,9,10 15:6 16:24
18:7,12 27:20 3:24 24:6 43:15 20:20 25:21 33:22 35:12,17
37:8 38:22 54:24 54:4 60:17
60:8 53:9,20 55:9,16 34:14 12:8 54:21 55:1 direct 8:16 43:24
elicited 28:13 examiner 36:7 38:12 56:10,11 29:2,25 30:23
employees 36:13 51:12 Fe 1:17 follow 54:19
employee's excused 53:23 felon 45:24,24 followed 10:18
33:4 27:1 32:12 finish 16:12 following 12:23
46:1,16 entitled 12:22 expedited 38:9 27:21 34:2 58:17
47:3,11 40:13 expelled 23:18 firearm 45:24 footnote 10:4,22
58:8 equate 39:23 expense 40:10 fired 26:25 37:3 11:4,11
equivalent 32:7 experienced 37:4 57:12 forensic 3:16,20
51:10 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 18:2 19:14,15 20:5,19 21:5 41:5,16,19 42:2
29:14 30:12 explains 24:10 6:2,10,13,16 future 4:18 15:2
34:9 40:2 43:5 eyewitness 8:23 12:9,13 13:7 gallon 26:1
44:13 45:20 9:13 15:14,17,23 GARY 1:17 2:6
59:8 60:1 facie 59:8 18:10 19:11,15 56:12
30:19 facts 13:12,17 generally 21:9
51:13,14 happens 13:23 hundreds 39:14 instance 23:9 in-court 3:14
17:24 18:10 haywire 28:22 hypothetical 8:7 45:23 48:19 56:7
39:19 Health 35:16 13:8 14:6 20:9 instruction 12:23 irrelevant 14:7
43:13 36:16,24 24:23 51:8 55:4 insufficient 14:10
54:19 hear 3:3 hypotheticals 10:19 issue 18:25
44:21 9:18 15:6 24:2 I intention 11:20 59:22
held 3:15 4:15 implausible 59:3 interesting 11:1 JA 58:5,10
44:3 high 29:20 27:18 29:11,15 intermediate 2:3,9 3:7 57:25
60:6 history 3:11 39:12,18 44:8 interrogation Joe 7:3
13:18 14:3 hold 30:7 importantly 29:6 41:24 42:1,5,7 23:5,10 40:23
24:5 holding 30:14 impression 47:5 42:12,16,23,25 58:5
49:16 holds 53:20 incident 29:22 43:3 52:4 Jones 12:17
55:19 Honor 22:1 include 50:19 interrogations 42:11
52:12 32:10 33:9,17 37:18 introduce 3:13 judge 23:24
44:25 37:13,21 38:3 51:19 11:12,22 38:16 jurisdiction 29:1
38:18 39:11,24 indicates 37:7 45:9 59:20 jurisdictions
41:17 42:13,19 indirect 25:4 17:1,4 18:14 jurisprudence
45:2,14 46:16 individuals 11:6 20:11 23:9 jury 4:5,5 9:10
55:3 inference 25:11 introducing 3:19 29:12,23 30:11
13:21 33:20 39:16 23:19 4:24 5:4,11,16
49:8 human 24:12,16 insist 11:13 9:13 6:14,17,23,25
50:10 hundred 43:17 insisted 13:15,22 involved 15:6 8:7,12,15,21
KAGAN 40:16 43:22 48:2 49:9 37:16 39:2,3 7:16 8:24 12:19
12:3 keeper 50:1 54:21 56:8 left 8:18 30:21 12:24 16:21,23
keeps 49:20 54:3 57:14 54:24 18:4,19,23 19:3
13:24 Kennedy 7:20 knowledge 23:1 length 41:20 19:5 23:17,23
15:5 8:1,5,12,15,21 48:11 50:10,21 let's 5:1,1 13:11 24:6,12,13,16
9:3,15 10:5,10 known 49:18 16:14 17:6,10 24:19 33:4,21
10:11,15 11:15 50:1 20:8 50:24 39:8,8 44:18,20
17:1,6 12:3,4,9 13:24 knows 18:9 53:19 46:6 53:1 57:11
14:8 53:19 54:6 28:11 51:20 level 16:17 45:2 57:13,20,20
19:10 54:12,17 59:6 56:13 mail 21:23
kept 33:1 50:10 L lever 12:19 majority 19:1
50:21 53:12 L 1:15 2:3,9 3:7 line 20:1 30:5 making 5:6 31:21
key 33:17 38:18 57:25 51:9 man 50:12
22:12 41:23 42:6 lab 3:15,16,19,20 little 30:20 38:5 manage 15:2
24:3 25:3 kind 9:24 36:20 4:11,20 5:9,21 55:15,23 56:9 manageable
47:16 50:8 56:4 7:22 9:4,7 live 11:14,22 14:15,16
27:5,7 kinds 35:18 52:3 12:17 14:22 12:10 32:24 managed 14:25
29:3 King 1:17 2:6 15:18 21:9,25 43:7 56:7 58:22 manner 39:17,17
30:11 30:24,25 31:2 22:23 24:17 59:22 March 1:9
31:2,12 31:16,20 32:10 25:1 26:6 32:9 living 35:14 mark 34:20
32:1,15 32:16 33:9,17 32:21 33:2 located 48:20 Maryland 4:15
34:6,23 35:4 34:18 35:6,12 long 12:13 14:14 Massachusetts
35:24 36:1,4,15,22 35:14,15,17 30:10 31:13 32:20 48:25
37:3 37:6,10,13,21 36:4,12,13,20 52:23 match 57:14
38:3,18 39:11 36:24 37:2 40:7 look 19:1,14,15 matter 1:11
39:5,19 39:24 40:4,20 40:13,25 44:23 22:13 33:18 18:15 30:19
40:15,16 41:4,12,16 45:9 46:20 49:2 38:19 40:22 35:21 36:23
41:2,8,13 42:13,19 43:2 50:24 51:1,9,9 41:16,25 43:4,5 59:13 60:24
44:6 45:1,14,18 51:17,18 52:16 43:21 44:12,24 mattered 18:16
44:21 46:15 47:3,6,20 54:5 55:1 58:9 46:16 51:11,24 mean 4:8 9:9
46:5 48:7,15 49:12 58:14 52:8,9 58:9,15 16:21 18:7 22:2
48:2 50:4,14 51:7,23 laboratory 13:1 60:1 31:13 42:9
49:6,17 52:15 53:8 54:1 40:11 49:9 looked 18:14 45:19 50:23
54:11,16 55:3 labs 7:19 50:24 looking 17:22 59:25
52:14,18 56:1,3 57:8,16 52:11 33:25 43:18 meaning 32:4
53:19 57:19 lab's 48:20 45:15,16 47:17 meaningful
knew 55:4 law 16:1 21:13 56:4,9 30:15
56:2 57:7 know 4:18 6:4,5 22:25 26:9 27:1 looks 12:17 57:2 means 9:2 32:2
58:4 7:22 11:22 34:4 36:7 40:8 lose 46:12 55:19 medical 36:6
59:6 17:11 28:17,22 50:15,16 53:22 lot 24:25 43:23 49:17,25
60:6 37:11,13,14,19 58:19,20 59:22 47:12 51:11 meet 5:2
37:22 38:12 lawsuit 51:11 lower 20:13 Melendez-Diaz
41:3 leave 25:19 29:9 3:15 10:4,23
14:14,21 necessary 8:8 59:1 out-of-court 38:16 39:15
27:14 34:11 43:12 object 22:1,3 20:14 31:7 41:14 45:23
31:24 45:22 objecting 22:5 Owens 30:7,14 personal 23:1
need 5:19 9:6 objection 22:16 persons 16:9
45:3 13:14 26:10 22:19,23,25 P person's 3:13
58:21 53:23 52:21 58:5 P 3:1 24:20
negotiating 38:6 29:13 30:12 paper 23:18,19 Petitioner 1:4,16
17:25 never 5:15,18,25 occurred 45:3 part 19:10,13 photograph
26:9 18:14 office 36:6,18 40:23 47:25 44:19 57:1
36:7,16 new 1:6,17 3:5 officer 5:12 parte 31:5,11 physical 37:1
47:8 48:19 3:21 17:25 18:7 10:12 31:10 particular 9:24 picture 54:21,25
52:21 18:11 26:9 34:4 35:13 40:24 18:9 21:11 piece 23:18,18
36:7,16 40:8 58:12,12 22:11 28:8,10 23:19,20 44:18
55:24 42:21 44:24 officers 31:14,15 28:12 29:1,22 53:2
59:8 47:8 48:18,24 37:1 51:15 36:5 49:18 50:9 placed 37:4
41:21 42:3 59:7,19 60:3,3 59:5 51:11 please 3:10
52:2 non-police 31:13 once 38:21,21 patient's 49:21 26:22 31:3
47:14,15 49:14 operates 18:5 people 6:3,20 33:3 36:25
number 33:25 opportunity 3:23 percentage pointedly 14:21
35:20 O 2:1 3:1 outside 19:14 13:1 28:4 29:11 41:15,19 42:1,5
oath 4:5 58:23,25 34:21 37:25
47:24 printouts 19:3,5 22:7 52:1,3,6,8,10 R
51:9 prior 11:21 prosecute 35:3 52:10,11 53:14 R 3:1
probably 17:19 prosecution 3:12 purposes 34:18 raised 14:19,20
23:23 50:11 13:11 27:19 34:19,21 35:8 43:14
problem 12:17 37:24 40:3,19 put 7:2 8:24 raw 16:15,19,20
60:16 52:16 29:8 46:7,8 Razatos 3:25
48:19 53:8 22:5 55:20 57:11 23:3,11,15 45:7
procedure 4:1 prosecutor's 56:15 read 12:24 17:8
33:7 59:7 prove 7:14 11:5 reads 23:6
procedures 17:12 20:19 Q
15:10 16:1 21:7 43:19 qualification 38:13 47:8,12
53:21 25:5,6,15 29:14 17:21 24:25 29:20 15:1 24:25
45:12 26:12 qualities 38:20 26:15 28:3 29:3
45:6 54:9 process 18:5,9 proves 12:24,25 8:2 9:1 16:12 39:9 47:9,13
60:1 49:25 provided 17:19 32:11 37:22 57:25
profit 51:19 44:11 51:14 questions 38:24 21:19 31:9,23
properly 17:20 35:1,11,12,20 quite 4:3 51:3,22
44:24 proposed 56:7 40:1,5,6 42:3 quo 22:2 recorded 33:4
propositions 44:13 51:24,25 quote 31:7,8 records 34:12
50:1,7,10 27:2,3 36:20 16:16 17:5 35:5 45:12 scene 26:2
51:1,3 43:23 49:17 27:23 52:12 53:3,11 schedules 5:10
report's 23:6 reviewing 19:21 53:22,24 54:5,8 scientific 35:16
42:2 reviews 46:23 55:18 screened 4:12
39:14 require 48:5 49:7 7:3,5,6,9,12 46:20,21 54:3 second 20:7,10
49:15 49:10,24 50:3,7 8:18 9:9,11 San 48:22 20:21 21:22
58:7 50:12 11:9,10,13 14:4 Santa 1:17 40:9 53:11
requirements 26:7 27:4,12 satisfy 27:14 47:18
requires 11:19 54:4 59:15,25 saw 7:17 8:9,25 seminal 49:4
53:20 54:9 ROBERTS 3:3 14:15 15:25 45:18
resolve 24:21 59:24 60:18,21 16:16 18:20 37:1
resources 27:17 rule 4:13 5:18 23:12,13 28:19 48:11
30:2,8 respect 22:6 34:4 6:24 9:23,25 29:11 34:14 service 13:17
43:16,18 59:14 11:2 14:13 44:25 46:6,20 36:13,13 60:11
44:2,5 Respondent 1:18 26:20 53:13,25 53:22 58:10 set 14:23 37:24
response 42:12 55:25 59:12 5:21 9:8 11:16 sets 56:19
17:9 result 7:16 8:6 run 18:9,21 28:9 33:12 37:3,9,11 shield 27:24
23:8 25:1 8:25 20:22 39:2 37:14,23 38:12 show 17:4 45:23
27:3 23:12,12 43:16 runs 6:8 39:5 41:8,13 46:6,8 52:22
32:9,18 45:10 57:10 run-of-the-mill 42:6,15,22 54:12
33:19,21 results 6:15 28:20 43:21 47:1,4 showed 12:2
34:5,8,18 13:11 21:6 23:6 48:2,10 50:18 showing 4:19 5:5
43:10,11 55:6 S 51:17 55:22 5:25 10:16
retest 53:4 55:8 S 2:1 3:1 56:2 57:7,9 shown 37:17
52:12 55:14 59:18 sample 7:18 58:23 shows 11:1 16:17
58:10 retested 54:5 10:17 11:7 scenario 6:19 17:23 38:15
retesting 59:15 13:14 16:4,4 19:3 20:5 60:10 51:8
21:4,23
35:12 speculation 39:4 3:16,19 6:11 54:20 56:7 48:6 60:3
stamp 24:11 20:18 32:5 10:18 temperature
21:7 23:5 17:22 22:15,19 50:8,17 suggested 17:25 test 18:21 28:10
33:25 22:21 23:4 States 1:1,12 19:8 32:22 35:19
58:8 25:17,23 28:1 12:2 14:13,25 suggests 5:8 36:2,6,8,9 40:9
Stanford 1:16 status 22:2 supposed 14:5 testified 17:16
7:13,14 8:1,2,3 statutes 48:8 18:12 6:21 7:9,15
25:17 11:18,22 13:22 stipulate 4:22 5:1 4:1 28:6 29:20 37:25
50:8 20:18 21:7,13 13:20 38:2 48:6 53:21
33:24 55:3 25:12 26:12,18 story 27:21 take 9:15 10:5 27:1,8
27:5,7 28:5 straightforward 11:7 17:21 22:2 testimonial 3:13
45:5 48:2,16 stuff 6:7 46:7 taken 10:6 20:20 18:18,22 19:5
49:13 50:15 51:20 22:21 33:3,13 19:14 20:7,14
17:1,6,10 52:16 54:3,8 subject 25:18 takes 6:5,7 9:8 24:14 34:8
18:6 55:4,14,17,17 submit 45:22 9:17 30:8,17 35:10 38:21,23
55:21 59:15,21 53:11 55:6 46:20 48:3 39:6,10,20 44:8
32:1,15 60:19 submitted 41:6,7 talking 24:16 46:3 58:8
34:16 statement 10:6,8 41:9,10,13,15 31:23 45:19 testimony 3:14
35:24 12:5,7 18:19 41:19 47:9 56:17 60:7 8:16 9:18 11:6
44:21 45:8 20:14 24:9,12 60:22,24 talks 60:12 11:12,23 20:2
52:14,18 24:13,20 32:23 submitting 46:2 tampered 7:17 21:8 22:7,9
21:1,5
29:18 31:8 43:4,13 45:4 45:16,23 48:21 United 1:1,12 16:20 26:19
38:17 47:7,14,20 49:14,19 50:2 30:7 38:16 40:11
44:3 45:16 48:14 49:4 50:11 51:21 unpaid 25:19 45:20,20 46:5
50:14,18 51:7 53:15 56:7 59:3 29:8 39:2 55:22
49:1 53:23 51:23 55:14,20 59:4 60:2,4 unrelated 54:10 wanted 8:3,5 9:4
58:22 55:23 56:3,16 trials 50:22 unsworn 39:21 10:20 13:9,10
55:25 60:5,6 trier 11:8 unusual 29:1 26:15,16 57:1
third 20:22 true 9:21 31:19 urge 58:9 wants 6:10 7:13
58:2 three 20:17,17 truth 32:5 59:12 36:9 40:2 51:3 19:21 26:18
20:23 21:5 22:6 truth-finding uses 40:7 Washington 1:8
thrust 39:20 try 58:2 utterances 44:11 wasn't 7:17
13:16 time 22:14 24:11 39:23 V 28:25 34:2 35:3
20:25 25:22,22 27:16 turns 12:19 v 1:5 3:5 4:15 42:25 44:22
30:3 44:1 29:22 30:20 TV 4:17 30:6,6,7 31:4 45:13 47:1,2
53:1 32:22 39:3 45:4 twice 55:18 35:7 41:21 42:3 watch 7:23
59:9 52:24 55:5,12 two 6:3 8:7 13:1 42:20,23 52:2 watched 7:15,16
55:23 19:22 20:4 23:7 variety 27:16 8:23,24
25:4 18:11 28:6 29:5 34:17 54:3 vial 6:6 12:18,25 21:8 29:21,21
30:15 34:1 41:18 51:6 60:8 54:23 30:4 36:17
47:8 54:2 60:14 two-point 16:18 vials 6:6,8 37:24
told 13:5 28:2,2 types 15:6,7 victim 49:18 ways 16:24 48:9
6:16,19 totality 16:7 typical 22:22 4:9 Wednesday 1:9
10:22,25 transaction view 48:3 went 25:24 26:1
47:23 U violate 16:18 28:21,22
13:4,8,25 transferred Uh-huh 37:10 17:18 weren't 36:19
56:14 unable 5:6 violated 3:18 we're 14:4 22:14
17:21 transferring unacceptable violates 4:1,3 31:22 41:17,18
19:2,15 44:17 14:1 violation 20:3,12 45:19 60:13,14
21:12 travel 52:22 unavailability 22:9 23:21 60:15,16
23:23 treated 24:9,20 5:5 violations 15:12 win 28:5
25:2 trial 5:9 11:21 unavailable 6:1 23:8 withdrew 10:17
27:18 15:16 17:11 understand 7:20 vodka 25:25 26:1 witness 3:24 4:1
31:18 31:7 33:8,11,14 13:7 31:12 4:4,16 5:5,6
48:15 W
35:6 33:15 34:13,22 10:3 15:15
38:10,18 38:8,9 43:12 16:16 30:7,10
32:3 12:3 13:16,24
41:4 43:3 44:14,22 45:2 30:17 33:23
14:9 15:22
48:22 53:5 years 39:14 6
55:9 6 49:2
Z
58:10
Z 46:6
12:10 09-10876 1:4 3:4
60:15 9
10:4,22 11:4,11 99 57:14
99.9 57:14
49:1
11:16 60:23
55:15 2 1:9 57:24
25:14 24:8,18,23 25:1
37:19 33:2 44:18
41:19 56:13
48:3 23 60:12,13
51:5,21 26 60:12
28:22 40 22:14 58:5
44-45 58:5
23:5,10
