IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
BOROUGH OF DURYEA, PENNSYLVANIA, :
ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 09-1476
v. :
CHARLES J. GUARNIERI :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 22, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:11 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DANIEL R. ORTIZ, ESQ., Charlottesville, Virginia; on
behalf of Petitioners.
JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioners.
ERIC SCHNAPPER, ESQ., Seattle, Washington; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DANIEL R. ORTIZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as
amicus curiae, supporting Petitioners 18
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ERIC SCHNAPPER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DANIEL R. ORTIZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:11 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 09-1476, The Borough
of Duryea v. Guarnieri.
Mr. Ortiz.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DANIEL R. ORTIZ
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. ORTIZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In asking this Court to cabin Connick v.
Myers' public concern requirement, Respondent would
constitutionalize, under the Petition Clause, large
parts of the law of public employee discipline, and
thereby grant to public employees a broad constitutional
employment right that private employees do not enjoy.
Two independent reasons, however, argue strongly for
applying the public concern requirement to discipline
claims brought both under the Free Speech and the
Petition Clauses.
First, the constitutional framework
principles this Court has repeatedly identified in its
public employment cases argue strongly for requiring it.
And second, McDonald v. Smith's principle of parity
argues strongly for creating no hierarchy between the
Free Speech and Petition Clauses.
When -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You agree that the Petition
Clause is -- is different and does have a separate
content?
MR. ORTIZ: Your Honor, we agree that the
Petition Clause -- that when the Petition Clause and the
Free Speech Clause cover the same activity, they
apply -- they cover it under McDonald in the same way.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the Speech Clause, in
the employment context, has been interpreted to cover
the content. Whether it -- whether it applies or not
depends upon the content, right?
MR. ORTIZ: One part of that inquiry turns
on the content.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you want the Petition
Clause also to turn on the content?
MR. ORTIZ: Part of the inquiry, yes, Your
Honor, should turn on the content.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it seems to me you're
either petitioning the government or you're not
petitioning the government. Why -- why shouldn't the
line be, if you're petitioning the government as
employer is different from petitioning the government as
ruler? Why shouldn't that be the line that we draw?
MR. ORTIZ: Well, the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which wouldn't necessarily
break out the same way as whether it's a matter of
private concern versus a matter of public concern.
MR. ORTIZ: Your Honor, this -- under the
constitutional background principles this Court has
developed, this Court should look at -- looks at how
close to the core a particular example of employee
activity is, and then talks about how much of a burden
that kind of activity poses to the efficient operation
of the workplace.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the core -- the core of
the Petition Clause is petitioning. The core of the
Free Speech Clause is political speech, of course -
speech in public interest -- but the core of the
Petition Clause is quite different. It's simply whether
you're petitioning. Surely you -- you could petition
the -- most of the petitions in the early years were
regarding private matters; isn't that right?
MR. ORTIZ: That is right, Your Honor, just
as most examples of speech concern private matters, too.
Yet that does not define the core of the Free Speech
Clause. There's not an empirical inquiry. That depends
upon the purpose of the clause. And as this Court
stated very definitely in McDonald, the core of the
Petition Clause, like the Free Speech Clause, was -- was
aimed at promoting democratic self-government.
Petitioning is a particular form of speech.
It is speech directed to a particular audience, the
government, some arm of government, some individual in
government, and it is speech that has a particular
purpose: Asking for a change of some sort in government
policy.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's true, and it seems
to me the -- the core is involved whenever you're asking
for a change. And it seems to me that the key
distinction, if there is one, is whether you're asking
for a change in -- by your employer in your employment
conditions or a change by the government in some matters
over which the government has control as -- as
sovereign.
MR. ORTIZ: Well, Your Honor, in practice,
that inquiry would not align much differently than the
Connick inquiry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It may well be, may well
be.
MR. ORTIZ: And in this particular case,
designing a kind of threshold inquiry along those lines
would actually advantage Petitioners.
One difficulty in application, though, is
that this Court has always identified the purpose of the
Connick threshold test as categoricalizing in a way the
Pickering balancing inquiry. And if you had a threshold
test that basically did not match, was a little oblique
to the Pickering balancing inquiry, it would create much
more work for the lower courts along the way. Or
perhaps this Court would want to change the Pickering
balancing inquiry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would they have to do both?
Would they have to do both?
MR. ORTIZ: They might well, Your Honor. If
the Pickering balancing inquiry still aligns with the
traditional framework that this Court has described in
its employment cases, what I describe, and this other
inquiry, which you're suggesting, Justice Scalia, was
somewhat oblique to it, then it might conceivably be
necessary to do both. One -
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you're proceeding with a
claim under two separate provisions of the Constitution,
it should not be surprising that you might have two
different tests.
MR. ORTIZ: Well, Your Honor, then that
might argue for more reengineering of the rest of the -
the enterprise as well, a step that this Court has not
identified as appropriate under -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why would it make -- why
would it make a difference at what you call the
balancing stage whether it is -- whether the distinction
is between public speech and private speech on the one
hand or government as employer and government as
sovereign on the other? Why would there be any
difference?
MR. ORTIZ: Well, Your Honor, if at the
first stage the Court is running an inquiry that is
something different from Connick, that is not going to
map onto traditional Pickering balancing, at least as
this Court has described it, at the second stage.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why not?
MR. ORTIZ: Because, Your Honor, Pickering
balancing has gone to things like how -- how -- how
important that particular example of speech is, how
close it is to the core of what the First Amendment
protects, and then that is weighed against the kind of
burden it would place on the government to have that
activity protected in a very strong way.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think all you're saying
is that one of the elements of Pickering balancing is
the element of Petition Clause jurisprudence, as I
suggested it -- it might be applied; that is, in
Pickering balancing, certainly you have to ask, was what
the individual was asking for a change in employment
conditions? That would be one of the questions. If so,
it was a private matter, and then you go on to the rest
of the balancing.
But it seems to me you have to make that
determination under Pickering balancing anyway, and once
you make it, you've answered the -- the Petition Clause
question.
MR. ORTIZ: Well, Your Honor, if this -- if
this Court were to proceed down that road, Petitioners,
I believe, would still end up victorious. This is a
case, as I understand your -- your approach, where the
petition does concern purely employment matters. It is
not a petition aimed at or directed at the government in
its capacity as sovereign, so under that kind of
analysis, that is where the initial trigger, this case,
would have not been constitutionalized.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What kind of case,
hypothetically, would qualify under your theory as a
petitioning case to the sovereign? Would a claim of
retaliation because of a termination based on race
qualify?
MR. ORTIZ: It would depend upon the
particular claims involved, or statements in the
petition. If it were a statement that there was a
policy, involved a petition against a policy in a
government department involving race, that would
certainly qualify. That would be like the Gibbons case
under the Free Speech Clause, Your Honor.
If, however, it were a one-off allegation
that a particular, say, low-level governmental
supervisor had engaged in a form of discriminatory
activity -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Doesn't that get to
the -- to the merits of the case? You have to from -
you can't invite a question as to whether the sovereign
is responsible until you litigate the issue.
So what is the -- addressing Justice
Scalia's question to you, what would qualify as a
petition to the employer as opposed to a petition to the
sovereign and why?
MR. ORTIZ: Your Honor, a petition to the
employer about changing the hours of employment -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Those are clear cases.
MR. ORTIZ: -- for overtime -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I was asking the flip.
MR. ORTIZ: The flip. A petition, a
complaint to an employer about the employer's pervasive
or apparently pervasive policies in violation of the
law, would certainly qualify as something to -- a
petition to the sovereign.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, you have to
wrestle with the same problem if you apply the other
test that you -- you were proposing.
MR. ORTIZ: For sure.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Namely, whether it's a
private matter or a matter of public concern. You
confront the same difficulty, don't you?
MR. ORTIZ: You certainly do, Your Honor,
and presumably this Court would look at some of the same
factors involved there: The form, the content, and the
context of the communication. All of those things are
relevant. This Court has admitted that that inquiry is
sometimes messy, that there are some -- many cases where
the line of distinction is not clear. But it is -- this
Court has not hesitated to apply that test because of
its importance to the public employment environment.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Ortiz, you're not
drawing any line depending on the branch of government,
in other words, executive, legislature. Those are
certainly branches of government to which one can
petition. But access to court you agree comes within
the Petition Clause?
MR. ORTIZ: A lawsuit, pursuing a lawsuit,
is definitely a form of petitioning activity, Your
Honor. Petitioners do not contest that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the -- this as
I understand it, came up originally as arbitration under
the -- wasn't it under the collective bargaining
contract?
MR. ORTIZ: Yes, Your Honor, that is the
case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would that count also,
because it is a mechanism set up by a government
employer?
MR. ORTIZ: It would qualify under the
original conception of what a petition is all about that
was in this case. It is Petitioner's view that it would
not qualify under the access to courts definition or
conception of petition that Respondent has developed
since the case was first before the district court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If -- if lawsuits are
covered by the Petition Clause, why is it that in the
innumerable cases this Court has had concerning what due
process of law consists of, we've never mentioned what
the Petition Clause requires. I mean, if the Petition
Clause guarantees access to the courts, certainly there
are some minimum requirements that it imposes as well,
and I don't recall any of our cases dealing with
lawsuits that mention the Petition Clause. That's
rather extraordinary if indeed it governs all lawsuits.
MR. ORTIZ: Well, Your Honor, that might be
explained by the fact that the Due Process Clause has
been interpreted more robustly and supplies a certain
floor of constitutional protection for lawsuits. And
the Petition Clause, since it is directed at petitions
generally and in particular the framers, the evidence
is, had in mind not petitions to the courts, but
petitions to the legislature, if lawsuits -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe that's all they had
in mind, or petitions to the executive as well. What -
what evidence do you have that it applied to lawsuits?
MR. ORTIZ: The evidence is that developed
by Professor Andrews, and the argument is a somewhat
slender one that goes as follows: At the time of
founding, Congress was the central sort of clearinghouse
for petitions and handled both what we think of as the
stereotypical paradigmatic petitions, pleas to Congress
to sort of change the law, and also handled a lot of
private bills. Over time, Congress handed over much of
the responsibility for handling the things that came
through private bills to the courts, and so to the
extent -- this is Respondent's argument -- that the
courts handled, took over those things, the lawsuits are
protected.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I agree with you that
that's slender.
MR. ORTIZ: Thank you, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you are not
challenging that, as I understand.
MR. ORTIZ: No, Your Honor. In the district
court it was conceded that the grievance activity would
be -- was protected. However, Petitioners do contest
quite sharply that under Respondent's new view of the
Petition Clause that the things of central importance
are lawsuits and other communications that would be
protected, perhaps be protected, otherwise under the
access to courts doctrine, that arbitration, the
arbitration involved in this case, does not count and
should not receive any kind of heightened protection.
The problem, much of the problem here, is the theory of
what is a petition from Respondent's side has changed
from the district court to this Court.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Ortiz, can I try a
hypothetical on you? Suppose that there is a city
employee and unrelated to the fact that he is a city
employee the government takes some part of his property
without just compensation. And he sues the government,
and the government says, somebody says, his employer,
that his supervisor said: Do you know what he's just
done? He's just sued the city; I think we should fire
him. And he brings a retaliation claim. Is that
protected under the Petition Clause?
MR. ORTIZ: Yes, Your Honor, it would be
protected for two different reasons. First, that would
-- similar activity would be protected under the Free
Speech Clause, so that would preserve the principle of
parity.
Second -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Really? What has he done
that's protected under the Free Speech Clause? He has
brought a suit saying: I'm entitled to just
compensation. It seems to me -- the reason I ask is
because this seems to me a purely private matter which
would not get protection under your test.
MR. ORTIZ: It's not employment-related or
related to his particular job, and this Court has always
drawn the distinction there. For example, in National
Treasury Employees Union this Court applied that kind of
analysis.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I see, so that goes back to
Justice Scala's difference test, which is it's not a
matter of public concern versus private concern, but
it's a matter of employment-related versus not
employment-related, correct? Is that correct?
MR. ORTIZ: Well, that shows how closely
those two things have been related in this Court's
approach. In -- but certainly something that is
privately-related, a public employee is complaining
about tax assessment or something like that and tries to
sue for retaliation under, under that theory, not for
anything related to his or her job, this Court -- under
this Court's and the lower court's application of the
Connick principles, there would be no problem there
treating it as speech or as a petition.
So it is only when the lawsuit or the
petition involves something related to the person's
employment that these particular -- this particular test
would kick in. And that's consistent, Your Honor, with
this Court's twin background constitutional framework
principles, one that you look at how much disruption
something is likely to pose to the workforce and how
central it is to the particular constitutional provision
involved.
In this case, if in general it's not
employment-related the government has much less interest
in worrying over it this way and applying the Connick
threshold test is much less justified. You would have
to do Pickering balancing, proceed directly to Pickering
balancing in that case.
Now, Your Honor, Respondent's view presents
several problems of sort of practical application, or
would, to this Court. First, it would allow for the
easy circumvention of Connick, which is a test that on
the free speech side this Court has long held is very
important for the public employment field to work
efficiently. It would be very easy for a particular
employee to take activity that Connick would not allow
to proceed, to turn into a lawsuit on the free speech
clause, and just by rephrasing it, respinning it,
whatever, to turn it into a petition where under
Respondent's rule the result would be very different.
It also would require the Court to create a
hierarchy between speech claims and petition claims,
and, more importantly, if the Court were to go down the
particular road that Respondent describes and see the
center of the Petition Clause as defined by the access
to courts doctrine it would create a hierarchy among
different forms of petition. All of a sudden, petitions
that at the founding were thought to be at the
periphery, if there, of the Petition Clause would define
its center, and a paradigmatic petition of a letter to
Congress asking it to change its position on something
would not be covered at all.
If there are no further questions, I would
like to retain my remaining time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Ortiz.
Mr. Palmore.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH R. PALMORE,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS
MR. PALMORE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Third Circuit rule here at issue is
flawed for two fundamental reasons. First, contrary to
this Court's admonitions, it quite literally
constitutionalizes the employee grievance process by
supplanting carefully calibrated nonconstitutional
safeguards and by providing a potential First Amendment
claim in Federal court to any employee who has filed a
grievance on a matter of only private interest. And
second -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How much of your
argument is premised on the fact that there was an
alternative mechanism to the court system available.
MR. PALMORE: That certainly -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Meaning let's assume
there wasn't a collective bargaining agreement, let's
assume there wasn't a State law protection, all of the
items that you mention in your brief as existing to
resolve disputes, that the only avenue for redress were
the courts. So where would that put your argument?
MR. PALMORE: Well, it's a hard hypothetical
to answer, of course, because the grievance was filed
pursuant to the collective bargaining agreement.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Putting it aside.
You -- you were talking about constitutionalizing a
grievance process. I'm going more broadly and saying
how much of your argument depends on that fact?
MR. PALMORE: Well, I think that's an
important part -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What was the meaning
would -- it is harder if all they have access to is a
court proceeding.
MR. PALMORE: I think that's an important
part of the argument, for this reason: If you look at
the Third Circuit's case in San Filippo, the court had a
kind of a doctrinal basis for its ruling, but it also
had a practical concern that not affording protection
for this kind of petitioning activity would be a trap to
the unwary. But there was really no basis for that
concern, because the issue here is when a sovereign
provides a remedial mechanism or enters into a
collective bargaining agreement that provides a remedial
mechanism -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How about if they don't?
MR. PALMORE: It typically -- well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How about if they don't?
That's my point. Then what happens to the Third
Circuit's definition?
MR. PALMORE: Well, then I think the -- the
result is the same, and -- and our position is you -
you still apply Connick, just as speech on matters of
private concern is protected by the First Amendment, yet
under Connick, an employee who engages in speech on a
matter of private concern is not going to be protected
in the employment context in all respects.
And that reflects a very important balance
that this Court has struck between its view of how the
Constitution applies to the government as sovereign
regulator of the general public and how it applies to
the government and its proprietary status as an
employer. And in that latter situation, Connick has
been critical in providing a bulwark against allowing
run-of-the-mill employment disputes from becoming
constitutional cases in Federal Court.
And the second main problem with the Third
Circuit's approach, and it's one that Mr. Ortiz
highlighted, is that it privileges petition activity
over speech activity, contrary to this Court's numerous
statements that there is no such hierarchy in the First
Amendment. So going back to Thomas v. Collins in 1945,
the Court called the two rights inseparable.
In the United Mine Workers case, which is a
case relied on by the other side, it's an access to
courts case, the Court interchangeably applied the
speech right, the petition right, and the assembly
right, and it said they were intimately connected in
origin and purpose. And, of course -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Palmore -- I'm sorry.
MR. PALMORE: No, please.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Suppose a State legislature
passes a law depriving all State employees of collective
bargaining rights, and a State employee files a lawsuit
saying that this law violates the State constitution,
and the State employee is thereupon fired. Is that a
matter of public concern or not?
MR. PALMORE: It -- it likely would be, and
I think this -- this goes to some of the questions
Justice Scalia was asking. But as this Court said in
Connick that the question about -- of whether speech is
a matter of public concern is assessed not only by the
content, but by the form and the context.
So in the case that Your Honor is positing,
the content of the -- of the speech, which was that an
act of the legislature was illegal, would suggest that
it was a matter of public concern, the form, the form of
a lawsuit is relevant to the consideration, and the
context that it came in part of a larger political
debate would likely be relevant, too.
The problem with the Third Circuit approach
is that it never engages in that kind of inquiry.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And suppose -- now going
back to Justice Sotomayor's example, suppose that there
were a -- a class action alleging systemic
discrimination in some governmental workplace. Would
that be a matter of public concern?
MR. PALMORE: It very well might be. That's
similar to this Court's decision in the GiVon case. So
that was a case where a teacher went to complain to her
principal about the school's general policy of
discrimination, and this Court held that that was speech
on a matter of public concern, that it affected more
than just that individual employee's employment status.
So many of these hypotheticals and many
submissions and petitions to the government as sovereign
will, in fact, satisfy the public concern test, and then
you'll get into Pickering balancing.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you -- can you think of
any instance where speech by the employee would not be
protected under the Pickering-Connick free speech
calculus but would be protected under the Petition
Clause?
MR. PALMORE: I think that, no, if you put
it in that way; this Court has never separately analyzed
the two. But I think it is important to note that I
think the Connick test already takes into account the
distinction between what might be deemed petitioning
conduct and non-petitioning conduct because of its use
of the term "form." So, again, the Connick test calls
on courts to look on the content, the context and the
form. So if the form of an employee complaint takes the
form of a lawsuit filed in Federal court, that's
something that -- that should be taken into account.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- wouldn't a -- a
written letter to -- to the employer, the government
employer, similarly be a petition? Is a lawsuit any
more of a petition, if indeed it is a petition at all,
which I doubt? Surely filing a statement with the
employer is a petition as well. So how does the form
make any difference?
MR. PALMORE: I -- it's -- I think it's a
serious question about whether a letter submitted to an
employer as an employer, not as a sovereign, is a
petition. But that's the kind of line-drawing that the
Third Circuit approach requires.
This Court has had a very broad conception
of what counts as petitioning activity, so in Edwards v.
South Carolina the Court said that a march to the
grounds of the State capitol in South Carolina to
protest segregation was an example of petitioning
conduct in its most classic and pristine form.
The Third Circuit doesn't -- doesn't
count -- wouldn't count that as a petition for this
purpose. It has kind of a gerrymandered view of what
will count as a petition, basically a lawsuit and an
employee grievance.
Now, the -- the approach followed by the
majority of the circuits and the approach we advocate
today doesn't require that kind of line-drawing, because
whether, for example, the grievance filed in this case
is a petition or not, it's certainly speech, and so we
would agree that it's susceptible to analysis under the
normal Connick v. Myers framework.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Palmore, what about
the distinction that the other side brings up that
Connick is about what happens inside the workplace -
you don't want to disrupt the routine by the kind of
activity in which Myers was involved -- but the Petition
Clause, they're talking about conduct outside the
workplace, that is a complaint filed in court, nothing
that's happening in the workplace.
MR. PALMORE: Well, I think it's workplace
related and I think that's the test. So I don't think
it -- you know, where an employee physically was when he
or she filed the petition isn't really relevant. The
question is the connection to the workplace and the
connection to the employer-employee relationship.
So as Mr. Ortiz answered before, the NTEU
case provides a separate set of protections under the
First Amendment, under the speech protection for
employees who engage in speech conduct that has no
connection to the workplace, and it would limit the
ability of a government employer to take action against
such an employee.
But the conduct here is the -- the
grievances that were filed here were obviously
intimately connected to the workplace relationship
between Chief Guarnieri and the Borough Council. This
was not a case like NTEU, where someone wanted to go out
and give a speech on something that had no connection to
their job or go out and file a lawsuit or some kind of
petitioning activity on something that had no connection
to the workplace.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Palmore, on that matter,
one last hypothetical. Suppose the New York City
council passed a resolution that said a precinct house
would be closed all night long from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m.,
and the chief of -- of that precinct filed suit saying
that this was micromanagement and it was going to affect
the public safety of the citizenry, and then that chief
of police was fired.
Is that a matter of public concern?
MR. PALMORE: It very well might be. It's
hard to answer in the abstract, because what this Court
has said is that the question has to be analyzed in
light of the whole record and in light of the context -
content, the context, and the form.
It's not necessary for this Court in this
case to decide whether the petitioning and speech
activity here was on a matter of public or private
concern. The question presented says that it was on a
matter of private concern. So all the Court needs to
decide is -- is whether that makes a difference or not
in terms of the constitutional analysis. And then the
Third Circuit on remand could -- could decide, assuming
the arguments were preserved, could look at the whole
record and decide whether the speech activity here was
on a matter of public or private concern.
If there are no further questions, we ask
the judgment be reversed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Schnapper.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC SCHNAPPER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. SCHNAPPER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
Neither the text, history, or purpose of the
Petition Clause nor the interest of a government
employer in an efficient workplace provide a basis for
distinguishing and giving less protection to a petition
because it didn't involve a matter of public concern.
The text of the Petition Clause certainly
draws no such distinction. The subject of the petition
must be a grievance and a grievance I think is measured
by whether the matter is of concern to the petitioner.
If it's a problem of concern to the petitioner, that
satisfies that constitutional element. It does not
matter whether the public cares a lot, it doesn't
care -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But all of our cases
have equated the Petition Clause reach with that of the
First Amendment, and our cases under the First Amendment
have made clear that we don't want to constitutionalize
the -- the employee grievance procedures.
MR. SCHNAPPER: Well, with all respect, Mr.
Chief Justice, I don't think this Court is committed to
the view that the Petition Clause and the Free Speech
Clause cover exactly the same things. In fact,
emphatically they -- obviously they don't because the
Free Speech Clause covers many things that the Petition
Clause would not. It covered, for example, the
remark -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does the Petition
Clause cover anything that the First Amendment does not?
MR. SCHNAPPER: I believe so, Your Honor.
This Court's decisions in the antitrust area and under
the National Labor Relations Act with regard to -- an -
access to the government or -- or the courts, they've
always been framed solely in terms of the Petition
Clause, not the Free Speech Clause. It would be at
least very awkward to characterize those -- those
problems as free speech cases, particularly where, as is
typically the case, the -- the underlying activity was
on the part of, say, a lawyer rather than an individual
who -- who is asserting the petition right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, getting back
to the second part of my question -
MR. SCHNAPPER: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- in the First
Amendment cases we were concerned about, as I said,
constitutionalizing employee grievances. If you
constitutionalize it under the Petition Clause, how is
that any less a problem of constitutionalizing it under
the First Amendment?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Well, it -- it's our view,
Mr. Chief Justice, that -- and in this respect to some
extent I think we agree with a statement made by
Petitioners -- that every gripe that an individual
employee might have, indeed most of them, wouldn't be
covered by the Petition Clause. In the petition reply
brief, the Petitioners state, and we agree with this,
that the ordinary, routine e-mails, give and take within
the office, that's not covered by the Petition Clause.
We would agree with that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All you have to do
then is add a sentence to your complaint saying: This
is an example of how the government employer mistreats
its employees?
MR. SCHNAPPER: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And then it becomes
more generalized?
MR. SCHNAPPER: No, no, Your Honor. That -
that -- that's their view, that -- that it becomes a
matter of public concern if you say it affects a lot of
people. Our view is that that's not relevant. It -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What if added to that is
"and I'm going to sue" or "I'm going to file a
grievance"?
MR. SCHNAPPER: No, Your Honor, saying that
wouldn't have that effect. The case to which they refer
is one in which an employee indicated, as indeed
occurred, that he was going to file a lawsuit, and the
employer retaliated in a peremptory fashion because of
that. That -- that's been the rule in the Third
Circuit, it has only come up twice, but if I might point
out, that's the rule under any -- any number of Federal
statutes which protect filing a charge with the EEOC or
filing a lawsuit. The lower courts have agreed -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, under -- under the
First Amendment speech clause -
MR. SCHNAPPER: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We have said that an
employee's, public employee's, right to speech can be
regulated, can be confined, can be restricted beyond
what the State could do for a nonemployee. Are you
saying that if -- if the Petition Clause is involved
there is no right to restrict what the -- employer does?
MR. SCHNAPPER: No, Your Honor. No, Your
Honor. The government -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then you have to offer a
test and you don't want the public concern test, so
what's your test?
MR. SCHNAPPER: The, the -- that it, the
government's interest as an employer is part of the
calculus if -- if this issue arose under the Petition
Clause, and under ordinary balancing one would look at
the nature of the government's interest and the degree
of burden that's imposed, and that's the way the Court
has administered the Petition Clause.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you would be content
to apply that analytic, broad analytic framework to the
Petition Clause?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Yes, that's what the Court
has done. Now, that said, I think there are
circumstances where the government would be hard pressed
to argue that it had a generalized interest in stopping
a particular form of petition. For example, the
Petitioners express a considerable unhappiness that
they're subject to suit under section 1983. It's
expensive, it requires lawyers, they could have to pay
counsel fees. Those are judgments that the Congress of
the United States made in 1871 when it adopted section
1983. It knew the government was -- local governments
would be subject to it. When the Congress strikes that
balance, and -- and of course, section 1983 is a very
complicated piece of machinery -- the balance Congress
struck is -- is ordinarily going to be controlling -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, let's talk about it.
I find it difficult to believe that lawsuits are covered
by the Petition Clause when it is very clear that the
Congress can prevent all lawsuits against the Federal
Government by simply refusing to waive sovereign
immunity. Now, you know, how can you have a
constitutional guarantee of the right to petition the
government, which you say includes the -- the right to
-- to be in law court, and yet the Federal Government
can exempt itself from suits in law courts?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Your Honor, the -- the
Federal Government is not obligated to provide a -- a
lower court system for -- authorized to hear suits
against it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not talking about just
a lower court system. I'm talking about all suits,
right up to the Supreme Court. The Federal Government
can say: You can't sue us.
MR. SCHNAPPER: It can. But it cannot set
up a court system and then punish government employees
for using it. They are not -- historic -- if I might
step back a couple hundred years here, the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying that the
Petition Clause only covers those petitions that the
government chooses to allow; is -- is that what the
constitutional guarantee is? If you choose to allow a
certain kind of petition, it is constitutionally
guaranteed. That's not much of a guarantee.
MR. SCHNAPPER: No, I think -- I think
historically that -- that's a fairly accurate
description of what has happened with the emergence of
the Petition Clause over the last 6 or 700 years of
Anglo-American history. There were no courts to which
people could seek redress against the crown at the time
of Magna Carta. Over time the courts became available
to do that. Insofar as they did, on our view, the
Petition Clause would now apply.
And if I might turn to a question you asked
earlier. You expressed some skepticism about whether
the Petition Clause applies to lawsuits. I note that in
at least half a dozen decisions that this Court has held
that, and I think that was the premise of your
concurring opinion in the BE & K Construction case a few
years ago.
And we don't in this regard have to get
deeply into history in the debate about whether courts
are covered. The text of the First -- of the Petition
Clause is sufficient on its face. It doesn't say
petitions to the legislature. It says petitions to the
government, and that was clearly a deliberate choice,
because the States -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Schnapper, you can
write a letter to the president, you can write a letter
to your congressional representative, but getting to a
court, you have to pay a filing fee. And since this
would be a civil case, this Court has held if you
haven't got whatever is the filing fee amount, too bad,
you don't have access to the Court.
MR. SCHNAPPER: Yes, Your Honor, and I think
those cases are clearly distinguishable. The -- the
core historical purpose of concern of the Petition
Clause was reprisals by the government against people
for -- for petitioning the government. There's a
fundamental difference here between what's at stake
here, where the Borough is asserting a right to punish
people for going to court, and the question about
whether the government has an affirmative obligation to
remove the incidental barriers that may exist to
bringing lawsuits.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you -- do you think -
MR. SCHNAPPER: And so, we think those
cases are distinguishable.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you suggesting that
in one of these suits you wouldn't have to pay the
filing fee?
MR. SCHNAPPER: No, no, precisely to the
contrary. We are asserting only that the government
cannot punish Mr. Guarnieri for filing a lawsuit. We
are not suggesting the government has to pay his filing
fee, any more than if -- if the -- if Mr. Guarnieri
wants to go to Harrisburg and meet with his or her
representative, the government, our view, Duryea, can't
punish him for doing it, but they don't have to give him
gas money, and if he doesn't have enough money for gas
that's just too bad.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose the Borough here
bought something from a company under a contract that
included an arbitration clause. Would that, would the
right of the company to engage in arbitration be
protected by the Petition Clause?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Yes. The -- we believe the
Petition Clause applies to government-created mechanisms
for redressing grievances; and if the government sets up
an arbitration procedure like that, we think that that's
covered. An arbitration agreement between two private
parties would not be, be covered by the Petition Clause,
because the government wouldn't have been involved in
standing that up. And that distinction really has its
roots in history. The petition started out; back at the
time of Magna Carta petitions only went to the king.
Over time the British government and ultimately the
American government developed other mechanisms that were
simply more efficient.
So that, for example, at the time the
Petition Clause was written, Congress received a large
number of petitions from wounded veterans, and after
several years of dealing with that it adopted the
Invalid Pension Act and turned that over to a somewhat
unusual combination of administrative and judicial
officials. So I think the creation of -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the earliest English
or American case you have that refers to a lawsuit as
protected by the Petition Clause?
MR. SCHNAPPER: I'm not familiar with
English law in that respect. With regard to the
decisions of this Court, I think it's California Motor
Transport, which I think is about 40 years ago.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How many?
MR. SCHNAPPER: About 40.
JUSTICE SCALIA: 40 years ago.
MR. SCHNAPPER: There's precious little -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So for a couple hundred
years, nobody -- nobody connected the two?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Many of the constitutional
issues this Court deals with were not raised for -- for
a very long period of time.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In the Garcetti case, the
district attorney was disciplined for sending a memo
because he disagreed with how the trial strategy was
supposed to unfold, and then he actually made that
argument in court and was disciplined for that.
Would he have been protected if he had just
gone to court to sue the office of the district attorney
on some sort of a prospective injunction saying, with
reference to all search warrants you should follow the
following procedures? Would that have been protected,
even though the memo was not?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Well, it would have been a
petition. It would not necessarily have been protected.
The government has an interest in such matters as an
employer, and that might indeed outweigh -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you have objected if
the same analysis were used in the Petition Clause case
as in the actual case? Just take the -
MR. SCHNAPPER: Right, right. The question
is, was the -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just white out "Speech
Clause" and put in "Petition Clause" and file the same
opinion?
MR. SCHNAPPER: The question I take it
you're asking is -- is whether the Garcetti principle
would apply to a Petition Clause case where the
government -- it was part of the official -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I want to know how the
analytic framework differs.
MR. SCHNAPPER: I don't -- I don't think -
the specific question is whether the Garcetti rule
should apply in a Petition Clause case. I don't think
we have a position on that. It's not raised in this
case.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Schnapper, can I
ask Justice Kennedy's question in maybe a little bit of
a different way?
In -- in the Connick inquiry, you have a
threshold inquiry and then you have a balancing test.
Now, you're suggesting that the threshold inquiry, the
public concern inquiry, is kind of apples and oranges
here; it's just not appropriate for the Petition Clause.
But the question that then follows is,
should there be a replacement threshold inquiry before
you get to the balancing that Connick suggests is the
second stage of the process?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Probably not in the sense
that you're asking. There would be a threshold inquiry
as to whether what had happened was petitioning. If it
were, this Court's decisions indicate that the Court
might impose a threshold inquiry consistent with, say,
the line of cases, most recently BE&K Construction, as
to whether the underlying petition had a -- a reasonable
basis or was -- had been pursued in good faith. But I
think if you got past that, then there would be no
further threshold.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if a number of
municipal employees prepare a formal document called
"Petition," and they say: We have a grievance, and our
grievance is that the quality of the food in the
cafeteria is poor? Now, is that protected by the
Petition Clause?
MR. SCHNAPPER: As you describe it, on our
view, not so, because our view is that, putting aside
the historical and somewhat unusual but less common
instance of a petition directed to, let's say at the
Federal level the Congress or the president, the
Petition Clause ordinarily applies only where the
government has created a specific remedial mechanism for
addressing a particular kind of grievance. It's
something that's just outside the ordinary give-and-take
of the office, something like, you know, a separate
agency or an arbitrator or a court, something like that.
And that -- there's an historical -
JUSTICE ALITO: Where does that rule come
from? It's drawn out of thin air?
MR. SCHNAPPER: No. No, it isn't. That's
the -- historically, that's the kind of distinction that
was there. If you had a problem in England, if the
undersheriff took your cow, you could go to the sheriff,
but historically, that wasn't called a petition. If you
went to the king, that was a petition. It was not going
to the local.
So we -- we do have a great deal of
historical material, as Justice Scalia points out, about
individuals, including Federal Government officials,
petitioning Congress. And I -- we think the framers
would have regarded those as petitions. I don't think
they would regard a beef with the Secretary of the
Treasury as -- as -- so we would -- there's no -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Schnapper, this is
not -- if you're -- if you're talking about the
practical significance, Myers in Connick was going
around the office, collecting signatures. She was
taking a poll. She was taking a poll and the poll was
going to be presented to the employer. That sounds much
more petition-like than filing a grievance pursuant to a
collective bargaining agreement.
So the -- the distinction between Connick,
who was taking a poll -- why wasn't that a petition?
Maybe -- did she just put the wrong label on it? If she
called her case a petition case, it would have been all
right?
MR. SCHNAPPER: No. No, Your Honor. Our
view, as I indicated to Justice Alito, is that a gripe
within the office, whether you label it a petition or
not, would not, except in maybe some extraordinary
circumstance, constitute a petition.
But if I might respond, I think your
question raises a second important linguistic point,
which is the word "petition" today has acquired a
somewhat different meaning than it would have probably
had in the 18th century. We think of petitions as the
things you see out on tables, along the street; people
say, come on, sign my petition to do this, that, or the
other thing.
That was not a common phenomena in the 18th
century. Petitions were ordinarily things from one
individual or a couple of people. There were some
exceptions, but that was -- that was not the normal -
the normal practice. In fact, the very idea that you
could have large numbers of people signing something
called a petition was much controverted at that time.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you're the expert in
this area, but that -- that surprises me. I thought it
was quite common in the early 1800s for you to go to all
your neighbors -- and the book "Quarreling About
Slavery" explains this, where there were petitions
signed by many of the constituents in the congressman's
district.
MR. SCHNAPPER: There -- there were. It
came to be used that way as -- that is largely a -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And there were scores,
scores of -- of signatures on these petitions. So
that's like your card table.
MR. SCHNAPPER: It is, but what I'm
suggesting is that is a 19th and 20th-century
phenomenon. You see very little of that in the 18th
century or earlier. And I'd note, although -- I mean,
I, I think that if that's done by private individuals
and directed to the government, it would be protected by
the Petition Clause.
I note, just to give you a sense of the
history, that at the time that happened, its legitimacy
was challenged, and the argument was made by the
proponents of slavery in support of a gag order adopted
by Congress that this was not really a legitimate
petition. The legitimate petition ought to be something
about your personal problems; an abolitionist really had
no business signing these things; it wasn't a personal
grievance.
Now, I think that's wrong. I think it's
certainly not consistent with current case law. But it
illustrates how the position advanced by Petitioners
stands on its head the historical evolution of the
Petition Clause, which starts as about private matters,
and only over time and after a good deal of struggle is
it extended to things of broader concern and possibly a
petition signed by people who don't have a personal
stake in -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That was the Calhoun
position, not the John Q. Adams position.
MR. SCHNAPPER: Right. Right. That's
right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Schnapper, let's come
to the century in which we are now living. We have
Title VII. Title VII has this provision, an explicit
provision against retaliation. But suppose it didn't.
Suppose it just prohibited discrimination and it didn't
have a retaliation clause. It's the thrust of your
arguments that the government employee would have a
claim for retaliation, although someone in the private
sector would not?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Exactly. Exactly. And here
we part company with -- I think the government expressed
the concern in its brief and perhaps at oral argument --
I guess it was Petitioner that made this point -- that
there was something amiss about government employees
having rights that private employees don't. That
distinction exists because the Bill of Rights and the -
and the other constitutional guarantees, with the
exception of the Thirteenth Amendment and the right to
travel in interstate commerce, those rights don't apply
to private -- to people dealing with private employers.
That's just -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But -- but that's
the basis of our law in this area is that when the
government is actually the employer the rights of the
individuals are somewhat different, and they're closer
to the rights that private employees have. So simply
saying that these constitutional provisions apply
against the government and therefore, you don't have to
worry about the distinction between private employers
and government employers doesn't seem to be -- me to be
completely responsive to our precedent.
MR. SCHNAPPER: And -- and we're not taking
issue with the assertion of the government that the
government as an employer has interests which are
different than it -- it -- those it has just as a
sovereign. But that distinction has nothing to do with
the distinction they propose in this case between
matters of public concern and matters of only private
concern.
Indeed, to the contrary. To the extent that
the government's -- the government's interests might be
greater, surely a petition that deals with a matter of
public importance is going to cause the government a lot
more trouble than a purely private matter. A lawsuit
alleging systemic employment discrimination on the basis
of religion or even an individual, if -- if
Mr. Guarnieri had alleged and a court had found that he
had been fired because he was Catholic, the
ramifications politically and in terms of just -- the
ramifications in terms of the workplace would have been
far more serious than the -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Schnapper, isn't the
real question in these cases whether the employee is
acting as a citizen or instead whether the employee is
acting as an employee? And in the speech cases, that
distinction suggests a public concern threshold inquiry.
Maybe in the petition cases it suggests something else,
but that that's really the question we should be asking
is, is this employee acting as an employee or as a
citizen?
MR. SCHNAPPER: With all due respect, our
view is it depends whether or not the -- the employee is
acting as a petitioner within the meaning of the
Petition Clause. The petition Clause was not adopted,
like the Free Speech Clause, to foster a vigorous public
debate. The purpose of the Petition Clause, as the
Court said in Christopher v. Harbury, is to enable an
individual to seek relief for a wrong. And that has -
that's not the same as the -- the free speech interests
that -- that might exist to engage as a citizen in a
robust public debate.
Mr. Guarnieri didn't file his complaint in
Federal court, for example, looking to the second
petition, in the hopes of a robust debate between
himself and Judge Caputo. He -- he filed that complaint
to get redress for an alleged violation of his
constitutional rights.
So -- so the citizen versus employee
distinction in -- in Connick is inapt here. It's -
it's -- it's rooted in the purpose of the -- of the Free
Speech Clause, which is protecting vigorous public
debate on matters of public concern. The Petition
Clause is not about matters of public concern. It's
about -- about people's ability to seek redress. It
doesn't guarantee redress, but it protects the ability
to ask for it.
The -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You do, I think,
recognize that it would be possible then to circumvent
Connick if you could turn around and file a pleading and
say: Now I have a petition, not just a grievance.
MR. SCHNAPPER: Your Honor, we don't think
that that is a serious problem for three reasons. First
of all, the Petitioners have in -- in highly expressive
language described the decision in Filippo as one which
would lead to an avalanche, tsunami, an overwhelming
number of new lawsuits.
We pointed out in our reply brief that they
had not adduced any evidence that any such thing had
happened in the 17 years since San Filippo. Their reply
brief does not purport to have any information to -- to
support that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but things
will be a lot different if we give the sanction to your
theory. I think the idea that it hasn't happened in 17
years in the wake of San Filippo is a little bit -- it's
not very compelling.
MR. SCHNAPPER: Well, I think your -- I
think there are two -- two other reasons why this is not
a -- a major concern. The first one is it simply isn't
the case that you could take any beef, write "Federal
complaint" at the top of it and file it in Federal court
and be protected. Most internal gripes don't raise a
colorable claim under Federal or State law, and this
Court's Petition Clause cases make it clear that a
petition, particularly a lawsuit, that doesn't have a
reasonable basis simply isn't going to be protected.
It's also, to be frank, based on my contact
with private petitioners, it's highly unrealistic to
suggest that if an employee, government employee, took
some gripe and went to a lawyer and said, let's file
this in Federal court, I want to get it off my chest, to
find a lawyer on a contingent fee basis that is going to
do that. If a chance case has no chance of success,
you're not going to find a lawyer who will do it; and on
a police officer's salary, you're certainly not going to
be able to hire one.
Third -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but the most
likely solution when you have an employee grievance
along with it is that some umbrella settlement -- I
mean, the employer doesn't want to spend -- I mean,
that's part of the reason our doctrine developed under
the First Amendment. The employer doesn't want to have
to worry about spending time and money in court to
resolve what is essentially an employee grievance.
MR. SCHNAPPER: Few -- few private lawyers
who aren't independently wealthy are going to take a
baseless case on the theory that they're going to get
some umbrella settlement. It's just -- it simply
doesn't happen. It -- it -- and realistically, we don't
really have a plausible account of why an employee would
do this. I mean, you're an employee, you're unhappy
with the way you're being treated at work, you -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counselor, your client
won everything in his collective bargaining grievance.
He got his pay back, he got them to stop doing what they
did, and he found a lawyer to file a constitutional
claim. So your suggestion that lawyers won't fight
semi-chaotic adventures is realistic as well.
MR. SCHNAPPER: Your Honor, this -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: People get upset about
how they're treated all of the time, and they find
lawyers to file suits about that treatment.
MR. SCHNAPPER: Your Honor, I can certainly
tell you that people who are upset all the time call me
ostensibly unable to find lawyers. I mean, remember,
the -- the fact that Mr. Guarnieri was able to find a
lawyer to take this case doesn't prove that people can
find lawyers to take baseless cases. Mr. Guarnieri
found a lawyer, she brought this case, she got past
summary judgment, she took it to trial and she won.
This is a case that not only had a substantial basis,
but on the facts, and this issue is no longer before us,
she prevailed.
If the Court has no -
JUSTICE ALITO: Your submission is there are
not very many -- throughout the whole country there are
very few frivolous 1983 cases or employment cases,
that's your point?
MR. SCHNAPPER: No, they -- they -
certainly they happen, but the notion that this is going
to unleash a flood of them seems to me unrealistic.
A particular institution like this where the
theory of this is that the private -- the government
employee reads Connick, realizes they can't write a
letter to the boss with -- with their gripe, and
undissatisfied with their ability to talk about it with
friends and family and gripe with pals at the bar,
decides that the only way they can get it off their
chest is to have it be in a complaint in some Federal
courthouse, where it would then probably be dismissed.
I think in the real world that's something that would
make very little sense to an employee.
If the Court has no further questions -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Ortiz, you have a minute left.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DANIEL R. ORTIZ
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. ORTIZ: Your Honor, it defies the
imagination that the radical Republicans and the framers
understood that the Petition Clause would
constitutionalize public employee grievance, and as
academic commentary that Respondent cites suggests,
their -- Respondents long-centered view of the Petition
Clause would call into question, sovereign immunity
doctrine, parts of Rule 11, suggest a right to appeal
and a right to judicial review whenever anyone has
agreed to government action.
There is also a danger that it would
constitutionalize the arbitration process whenever the
government is a party.
If I can just answer one question. Connick
is focused not on where speech happens, as Respondent
insists, but rather where its effects occur. As this
Court held in the City of San Diego v. Roe, employee
speech completely outside of the workplace raises the
same kind of concerns.
If there are no further questions,
Petitioners will rest on their submissions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:09 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
50:22 36:11 43:1 46:8 44:12 49:3 24:2,14,15 33:14
52:8 49:19 18:7 14:13,14 35:17 a.m 1:14 3:2 26:4
15:20 24:19 area 28:13 42:5 back 15:21 21:3
14:13
19:14
28:15
analyzed 23:6 argues 3:25 16:15
14:1 Andrews 13:14 2:2,5,9,12 3:4,7 balance 20:14
29:9,13 Anglo-American 13:14,23 18:5 32:2,3
33:12 18:20 19:3,10 balancing 7:3,5,8
26:11 51:22 37:10 42:25 8:22,25 9:4,6
35:24 25:10 arguments 26:23 31:8 38:19,25
antitrust 28:13 44:1 bar 50:23
51:18
8:20 10:8
14:7 15:6
19:21
21:1 24:4
25:24
40:5 application 6:25 10:21 17:23 baseless 49:8
28:20
50:11 16:8 17:2 21:21 38:5 39:3 50:4
21:7 asserting 28:22 basis 19:19,22
20:16,17 33:19 assertion 45:2 44:17 45:14
apply 4:9 11:3,16 assessment 16:5 becoming 20:21
20:10 applying 3:18 attorney 37:7,12 2:14 3:8 18:6
25:12 16:22 audience 6:4 27:6 51:8
32:6 calls 23:11 certainly 8:25 31:17 27:25 32:7 48:9
capacity 9:15 10:3,25 11:9,21 circumvent 47:8 clearinghouse
34:19 Carta 33:14 36:4 chance 48:18,18 15:1 26:2 51:25 collecting 40:24
case 3:4 6:22 change 6:7,11,13 civil 34:10 collective 12:4
47:17,20 25:11,21 26:16 charge 30:14 classic 24:8 36:13
38:14 41:7,7 50:25 9:7 10:4 11:23 51:13
50:5 cases 3:23 7:14 28:10,23 29:1,8 17:17,21 23:4 41:22 42:6
27:22,24 28:19 51:5 52:5 28:8,11,17,17 communications
45:22,24 choose 33:5 30:17,23 31:8 company 35:16
cause 45:12 26:22 30:12 38:2,2,6,12,22 complaining 16:4
42:19 43:21 41:13 Clauses 3:20 4:1 completely 44:25
41:7 42:3
24:3 50:20 51:22 contingent 48:17 33:20 34:9,10 36:11 44:14
9:13 31:20 35:16 37:4,10,12 39:5 debate 22:6
15:23,23 consideration contrary 18:11 40:3 45:16 33:25 46:10,15
20:10 22:4 21:1 35:6 45:9 46:11,17 48:6 46:18 47:1
21:18,23 consistent 16:14 control 6:15 48:16 49:4 decide 26:16,20
39:6 43:8 controlling 32:4 50:10 51:4,25 26:22,24
consists 12:20 controverted courthouse 51:1 decides 50:24
constituents 42:9 42:3 courts 7:6 12:14 decision 22:15
31:3 34:15 constitute 41:13 core 5:8,12,12 12:22 13:8,22 47:14
43:13 constitution 7:19 5:13,15,22,25 13:24 14:13 decisions 28:13
45:7,8,25 20:16 21:16 6:10 8:17 34:15 17:18 19:3 21:7 33:20 36:20
48:4 constitutional correct 15:25,25 23:12 28:15 39:5
44:21 46:21 count 12:8 14:14 28:13 39:5 48:9 definitely 5:25
25:1,13,17 constitutionalize country 50:12 28:5,11 definition 12:14
17:23 9:17 course 5:14 11:2 34:1 35:24,25 democratic 6:2
32:1,3,8 constitutionali... 19:5 21:10 32:2 covers 28:7 33:3 department 1:19
39:22 18:13 court 1:1,13 3:10 cow 40:10 10:2
43:2 constitutionali... 3:11,22 5:6,7 create 7:5 17:13 depend 9:23
constitutionally 7:24 8:9,12 created 39:24 depends 4:13
Construction 11:16,22 12:16 creation 36:14 depriving 21:14
37:2 contact 48:12 14:18 15:17,19 crown 33:13 39:18
4:13,15,17,19 17:15 18:9,16 18:7 8:12 47:14
7:2 8:10 22:1 23:12 20:15,22 21:4,7 description
17:4,8 26:14 31:12 21:21 22:18 D 33:10
contest 12:1 14:8 23:6,14 24:3,5 D 3:1 designing 6:23
distinguishable 33:10 6:13 7:14 9:1 13:11
13:13 distinguishing 28:6 11:17 16:13 exist 34:22 46:14
49:2 27:12 empirical 5:23 17:6 20:13,21 existing 19:1
23:22 42:10 16:4 17:8 18:13 employment-r... expert 42:4
34:18 doctrinal 19:19 18:16 20:11 15:16,24,25 explained 13:3
7:21 8:10 17:18 49:2 23:13 24:13 enable 46:11 explicit 43:22
17:12,19 51:16 25:6,16 28:1 engage 25:13 express 31:20
41:17 document 39:13 29:3,11 30:8 35:18 46:14 expressed 33:18
45:4 doing 35:12 44:1 45:22,23 engaged 10:7 44:5
49:16 45:24 46:3,3,6 engages 20:11 expressive 47:13
drawn 15:18 40:6 employees 3:15 enterprise 7:24 13:1 41:12
39:21 due 12:19 13:3 21:14 25:13 entitled 15:12
46:5 29:20 32:24 environment F
employer 4:24 27:5 22:23 28:5 42:1
E 2:1 3:1,1 10:18,23 12:10 2:3,6,10,13 factors 11:11
43:24 42:19 23:17,18,21,25 ET 1:4 fairly 33:9
earliest 36:15 23:25 25:15 evidence 13:7,12 faith 39:9
easy 17:4,7 30:10,24 31:6 evolution 43:10 family 50:23
effect 30:7 49:3 example 5:8 8:16 Federal 18:16
11:15 15:18 efficiently 17:7 10:23 36:8 46:17 40:16 46:17
24:22 either 4:21 employer-emp... examples 5:21 48:5,6,8,16
36:2 40:8 element 8:23 25:9 exception 44:12 50:25
44:10,23 27:19 employment exceptions 41:25 fee 34:9,11 35:4
46:16 47:9 formal 39:13 Gibbons 10:3 37:19 38:7 H
49:17 forms 17:19 GINSBURG 8:1 39:24 40:16 half 33:20
foster 46:9 8:13 11:18 12:2 42:21 44:1,5,8 hand 8:5
24:17 49:17 50:5 30:3 34:6 35:2 45:2,3,12 48:14 handled 13:17,19
26:5 founding 13:16 40:21 43:20 50:19 51:18,21 13:24
17:20 47:7 governmental handling 13:21
34:9,11 40:17 51:10 47:23 31:25 happened 33:10
41:2 framework 3:21 give-and-take government's 39:4 42:24
24:20 31:13 giving 27:12 government-cr... happening 25:3
49:22 frank 48:12 go 9:3 17:15 governs 13:1 24:23 51:23
free 3:19 4:1,8 25:21,23 35:10 grant 3:15 Harbury 46:11
17:5,9 23:2 21:20 grievance 14:7 harder 19:14
12:16 15:5 46:9,13,24 20:12 21:3 22:9 24:13,17 27:16 35:10
18:11,15 friends 50:23 26:6 30:4,4,9 27:16 28:1 30:5 head 43:10
21:2 frivolous 50:13 32:4 34:20 39:14,15,25 hear 3:3 32:17
27:24,24 fundamental 40:12,23 41:1 41:2 43:6 47:10 heightened
29:1,6 18:11 34:18 45:12 48:11,17 48:24 49:5,15 14:15
34:1 further 17:25 48:19,20 49:7,8 51:12 held 17:5 22:18
48:4 49:3 27:1 39:11 51:4 50:16 grievances 25:18 33:20 34:10
16:20 20:17 23:17 25:15 guarantees historic 32:25
21:24 29:23 31:18 31:25 32:9,12 25:20 35:7,9 43:10
41:15 interchangeably Justice 1:19 3:3 key 6:11
36:3 17:15 interest 5:15 4:20 5:2,12 6:9 kind 5:10 6:23
impose 39:6 16:21 18:17 6:20 7:9,15,18 8:18 9:15,18
6:17 7:11 imposes 12:23 37:19 10:9,13,19,21 19:19,21 22:8
8:8,14 9:9 inapt 46:23 interests 45:3,10 11:2,6,18 12:2 24:1,11,16,24
11:9 incidental 34:22 46:13 12:8,17 13:10 25:23 33:6
13:2 included 35:17 internal 48:7 14:1,4,19 15:10 38:21 39:25
15:4 includes 32:12 interpreted 4:11 15:21,22 18:2,8 40:8 52:2
17:1 including 40:16 13:4 18:19,23 19:7 king 36:4 40:12
28:12 independent interstate 44:13 19:13 20:2,4 knew 31:25
30:6,25 3:17 intimately 21:9 21:11,13,21 know 14:25 25:6
32:15 independently 25:19 22:9,10,25 32:10 38:8 40:2
41:9 49:7 Invalid 36:12 23:16 24:21
49:20,24 indicate 39:5 invite 10:11 26:1 27:3,7,22 L
indicated 30:8 involve 27:13 28:3,10,23 29:1 label 41:6,11
45:15 46:12 36:1 35:2,15 36:15 largely 42:12
19:4 26:2 42:20 44:19 involving 10:2 37:21 38:1,8,15 law 3:14 10:25
47:20 18:10 19:23 40:5,15,21 18:25 21:14,16
injunction 37:13 issues 37:4 43:16,20 44:16 43:8 44:17 48:8
7:3,5,8,12,15 job 15:17 16:7 25:23 30:9,15
45:25 2:6 18:5 15:10,21 21:11 12:25 13:1,5,9
inside 24:23 judgment 27:2 38:15 45:21 32:6,8 33:19
14:10 Insofar 33:15 judgments 31:23 22:25 30:16,19 lawyer 28:21
instance 23:1 judicial 36:13 31:2,12 37:6,21 48:15,17,19
19:12,16 institution 50:18 jurisprudence 43:16 lawyers 31:22
23:7 8:23 Kennedy's 38:16 49:6,18,23 50:1
lower 7:6 16:8 mention 12:25 note 23:7 33:19 originally 12:3
21:13 22:2 M messy 11:14 number 30:13 6:17,22 7:11,22
machinery 32:3 micromanage... 36:10 39:12 8:8,14 9:9,23
34:7,7 major 48:4 minimum 12:23 14:3,6,19 15:4
majority 24:15 minute 51:6 O 15:16 16:1 18:3
39:21 march 1:10 24:5 money 35:13,13 objected 37:21 51:6,7,9
48:15 match 7:4 49:4 obligated 32:16 ostensibly 50:1
39:7 18:17 20:12 24:20,25 40:23 occur 51:24 overtime 10:20
26:17,19,25 N 2:1,1 3:1 office 29:15
42:18 6:14 9:13 20:9 37:18 officials 36:14 18:4,5,8,22
51:3 37:19 43:11 necessary 7:17 40:16 19:4,11,16 20:3
mean 12:21 Neither 27:9 opinion 33:22 25:4 26:1,10
meaning 18:23 new 14:9 26:2 oral 1:12 2:2,5,9 13:18 17:22
19:17 46:7 night 26:4 44:6 part 4:14,18
26:23 measured 27:16 nonconstitutio... oranges 38:21 14:22 19:12,17
mechanism 12:9 18:14 order 43:1 22:5 28:21,24
45:12 35:21 36:6 23:10 31:8 40:1 6:4,6,22 8:16
meet 35:10 normal 24:20 origin 21:10 9:24 10:6 13:7
17:7,16 23:19,21 24:1 13:6,8,9,11,17 20:8 38:13 43:9 49:6 50:19
39:25 24:10,12,18,25 13:18 17:19 43:17,17 privately-relat...
25:7 27:10,12 22:22 33:3 34:3 possible 47:8 16:4
48:10 28:4,7,10,16 40:18 41:18,23 potential 18:15 probably 39:2
49:16 35:21,25 36:3,9 physically 25:6 precious 36:25 problems 17:2
38:2,6,12,22 7:12 8:11,14,22 premise 33:21 procedure 35:23
34:16,20 41:5,7,11,13 Pickering-Con... presented 26:18 proceed 9:10
42:2 41:16,20 42:3 23:2 41:1 16:24 17:9
44:14 42:22 43:3,3,11 piece 32:3 presents 17:1 proceeding 7:18
50:3 43:14 45:11 place 8:19 preserve 15:7 19:15
51:11,14 pleas 13:18 39:22 39:1 51:20
1:17,21 2:4,8 41:15 44:7 prevailed 50:9 property 14:22
18:7 29:10,13 points 40:15 principle 3:24 proposing 11:4
47:13 48:13 policies 10:24 principles 3:22 20:18
6:1 51:8 52:4 policy 6:8 10:1,1 5:6 16:9,16 prospective
9:7,13,14 Petitioner's 22:17 pristine 24:8 37:13
10:1,15,15 12:13 political 5:14 private 3:16 5:4 protect 30:14
11:1 petitioning 4:21 22:5 5:19,21 8:4 9:3 protected 8:20
12:12 4:22,23,24 5:13 politically 45:18 11:7 13:20,22 13:25 14:8,12
5:17 6:3 9:20 poll 40:25,25,25 15:14,23 18:17 14:12 15:3,5,6
13:6 11:25 19:21 41:5 20:10,12 26:17 15:11 20:10,12
15:3 23:9 24:4,7 poor 39:16 26:19,25 35:24 23:2,3 35:19
17:11 25:24 26:16 pose 16:17 42:20 43:11 36:17 37:11,15
34:17 39:4 poses 5:10 44:2,9,14,14 37:18 39:16
20:25 40:17 positing 21:25 44:20,23 45:7 42:21 48:7,11
23:3,18,19 petitions 5:18 position 17:23 45:13 48:13 protecting 46:25
15:15 pursuing 11:24 realizes 50:20 30:2 Respondent's
19:20 put 19:3 23:5 really 15:10 relied 21:6 13:23 14:9,17
27:12 38:2 41:6 19:22 25:7 36:2 relief 46:12 17:1,12
39:19 49:11 remaining 18:1 13:21
19:17 49:2 remark 28:9 10:12
12:11,14 15:5 18:11 remove 34:22 restricted 30:21
25:11 Quarreling 42:7 rebuttal 2:12 rephrasing 17:10 retain 18:1
10:11,14 21:22 recall 12:24 38:24 retaliation 9:21
26:12,18 28:24 received 36:9 47:17,19 43:25 44:2
37:24 38:4,11 record 26:13,24 34:8 35:11 review 51:17
5:4,15 45:22 46:2 33:13 46:20 Republicans 5:19,20 21:8,8
11:7,17 51:15,22 47:3,4 51:10 21:9 28:22
16:4 17:6 questions 9:2 redressing 35:22 require 17:13 30:20,24 32:11
21:18,23 17:25 21:20 reengineering 24:16 32:12,21 34:19
27:1 51:4 52:3 7:23 requirement 35:18 37:24,24
quite 5:16 14:9 refer 30:7 3:12,18 41:8 43:18,18
30:1 18:12 42:6 reference 37:14 requirements 43:19 44:12
31:3 refers 36:16 12:23 51:16,17
45:7,12 reflects 20:14 requires 12:21 rights 21:4,15
46:9,15 refusing 32:9 24:2 31:22 44:9,10,13,18
3:1,7 18:5 regard 28:14
47:1,2 requiring 3:23 44:20 46:21
33:24 36:19 resolution 26:3 road 9:10 17:16
35:7,12 regarded 40:18 respect 28:2 29:8 18:2 27:3,22
45:13 respects 20:13 29:17,22 44:16
21:10 24:11 16:2,7,12 25:5 Respondent 1:23 robust 46:15,18
34:15 Relations 28:14 2:11 3:12 12:15 robustly 13:4
relationship 25:9 17:16 27:6 Roe 51:25
relevant 11:13 Respondents roots 36:3
30:18,25 31:5 set 12:9 25:11 19:13 20:2,4 stated 5:25
38:11 33:8 34:6,13,25 sets 35:22 Sotomayor's 23:20 29:9
51:16 35:5,20 36:18 settlement 48:25 22:10 statements 9:24
41:9 42:11,16 side 14:17 17:5 10:11,16 11:1 status 20:18
44:4 21:6 24:22 19:23 20:16 22:20
school's 22:17 signed 42:9 39:24 13:18
51:25 second 3:24 8:12 signing 42:2 43:5 6:3,4,6 8:4,4,16 street 41:19
19:9 Secretary 40:19 36:7 44:20 48:4 23:1,2 24:18 struck 20:15
26:5 section 31:21,24 48:11 49:9 25:12,13,22 32:4
30:6,23 32:2 situation 20:19 26:16,24 28:4,7 struggle 43:12
37:13 sector 44:3 skepticism 33:18 28:17,19 30:17 subject 27:15
see 15:21 17:16 slavery 42:8 43:1 30:20 38:1 31:21 32:1
34:3 seek 33:13 46:12 14:2 46:25 51:23 50:11
5:2,12 6:9 self-government Solicitor 1:18 spending 49:4 submitted 23:24
7:9,15,18 6:2 solution 48:24 stage 8:3,9,12 52:6,8
11:2,6 semi-chaotic somebody 14:24 39:1 substantial 50:7
13:10 49:19 somewhat 7:16 stake 34:18 success 48:18
21:21 sending 37:7 13:14 36:12 43:15 sudden 17:19
32:5,19 sense 39:2 42:23 39:20 41:17 standing 36:2 sue 16:6 30:4
36:15,22 51:3 44:19 stands 43:10 32:22 37:12
37:1 sentence 29:18 sorry 21:11 started 36:3 sued 15:1
separate 4:4 sort 6:7 13:16,19 starts 43:11 sues 14:23
27:4,5,7 serious 23:24 9:18 10:9,19,21 24:6 29:13 48:14 51:16
29:7
38:20 38:4 48:5 49:7 34:13,24,25 trigger 9:16 50:17
50:3,4 35:23 36:14,20 trouble 45:13 unrelated 14:21
46:1 23:13 41:14,18 42:20 tsunami 47:15 unwary 19:22
talk 32:5 50:22 43:7,7 44:5 Tuesday 1:10 upset 49:21,25
32:19,20 40:22 48:3 51:2 17:11 33:17
49:23 tax 16:5 19:18 20:5,23 turned 36:12 v 1:6 3:5,11,24
term 23:11 48:22 twin 16:15 versus 5:4 15:23
terms 26:21 Thomas 21:3 15:5 16:2 18:11veterans 36:10
15:15,22 16:13 three 47:12 typically 20:3 17:1 20:15
18:7 22:23 23:8,11 7:2,3 16:23 29:25 30:2
22:9,10 38:19 39:3,6,11 45:25 ultimately 36:5 39:19,19 41:10
35:15 tests 7:21 thrust 43:25 umbrella 48:25 46:6 51:14
text 27:9,14 34:1 time 13:15,20 49:9 vigorous 46:9,25
theory 9:19 42:3,24 43:12 39:8 violation 10:24
50:19 today 24:16 understand 9:12
14:5 W
wake 47:25
13:21,24 14:10 8:11
24:24 27:25
41:19,23 43:5 trap 19:21
wanted 25:21
think 8:21 13:17 Treasury 15:19
19:11,16 40:20
21:20 treated 49:13,22
25:4,5,5 treatment 49:23
40:11 Y 700 33:11
43:5 years 5:18 33:1
16:22 23:6 36:21,24 37:2
38:17 47:19,25
49:13 York 26:2
48:15 1
1800s 42:6
24:23 1983 31:21,25
32:2 50:13
27:11
52:1
24:10 27 2:11
30:7 35:3 3
3 2:4
51 2:14
6
33:11
26:4,4
