IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-1498
JASON LOUIS TINKLENBERG :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, February 22, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:20 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Petitioner.
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ., Stanford, California; on behalf
of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 50
P R O C E E D I N G S.
(11:20 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 09-1498, United States v. Tinklenberg.
Mr. Roberts.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. ROBERTS: Thank you. Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
To accommodate important pretrial
proceedings, the Speedy Trial Act contains several
automatic exclusions from its deadline for commencing
trial. This case concerns the exclusion for pretrial
motions, which excludes the period of delay resulting
from any pretrial motion from the filing of the motion
through the conclusion of the hearing on or other prompt
disposition of such motion.
For more than 30 years, the courts of
appeals had uniformly held that the exclusion applies
automatically upon the filing of any motion, regardless
of its effect on the trial schedule. The court below
correctly rejected that established rule, which accords
with this Court's decisions, is clear and easy to
administer, and has worked well for over 3 decades.
The Court's cases construing the exclusion,
Henderson and Bloate, support the established rule.
They make clear that the exclusion applies automatically
once a motion is filed without any need for district
court findings. Henderson and Bloate cannot be squared
with the approach of Respondent and the court below.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, all that might
be true. On the other hand, the statute does say "delay
resulting." And under your approach, the time would be
excluded even if delay does not result.
MR. ROBERTS: No, Your Honor. Delay refers
to the interval of time from the filing of the motion
through its disposition, during which the Speedy Trial
Act's deadline is tolled. We know that delay has the
meaning -- delay can often have the meaning of the
interval of time between two events.
And we know it has that meaning in the
statute here because subsection (D) tells us so. It
defines the period of excludable delay resulting from
the motion as the time from the filing through the
disposition of the motion. Respondent's definition -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the Chief Justice says
only if it -- it's really a circular argument -- only if
it results in a delay. Well, suppose it doesn't result
in a delay?
MR. ROBERTS: That's assuming that delay is
referring to delay of the trial, to a postponement in
the trial. But delay can't have that meaning because if
it has that -- if that meaning is inconsistent with
subsection (D) of the statute's exclusion of the time,
of saying that delay is the time from the filing of the
motion through the disposition of the motion, because
the statute excludes periods of delay.
And if delay meant postponement of the
trial, then the excluded period would be the time during
which trial is postponed, but that period is often
significantly shorter or longer than the time from the
filing of the motion to the disposition. And in
Henderson and Bloate -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that doesn't -- that
prove the point that I think is the concern of the Chief
Justice's question, that in some cases the delay -
there's a delay that results and in other cases there
isn't.
MR. ROBERTS: But, Your Honor, the statute
excludes the period of delay, and then it says the
period of delay is the time from the filing through the
disposition. If delay -- if delay means postponement of
the trial, then all that's excluded by the statute in
the first part is the -- is the time during which trial
is postponed, but that doesn't match up with subsection
(D) because that period is not necessarily the period
from the filing through the disposition.
If I could give you an example. Say a
motion is filed 14 days before trial could begin, and
the motion takes 16 days to resolve. Trial is postponed
only by two days. And so if delay means the
postponement of trial, then the period of delay should
be 2 days, but the statute says that the delay and the
excludable time is the time from the filing through the
disposition, which is 16 days.
And that's what this Court held in Henderson
and Bloate, that that's the exact time. So if you adopt
a definition of delay for the first part as a triggering
mechanism that's the postponement of trial, that doesn't
line up with the rest of the statute.
In addition, that would be a totally
unworkable rule because whether time is excludable would
turn on a complex and often uncertain analysis of
whether the motion would or could delay when trial would
begin, and it's often going to be difficult or
impossible to make that determination at the time that
the motion is filed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Roberts, is there -
is there any, anything to indicate that what Congress
might have had in mind is that in criminal cases
inevitably there are going to be motions, and so the
trial judge is likely to set the trial date for after
that period runs?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, Your Honor. Sometimes
trial -- judges might take motions into account in
setting the trial date and other times they might not
take the motions into account. So a rule that -- that
said the exclusion only applies if the judge moves the
trial date in response to the motion would lead to
arbitrary results.
It would mean basically that whether time
was excludable depended on whether the judge took the
motions into account when it set the trial date
initially or whether the, whether the judge correctly
estimated the amount of time. And also sometimes
motions may be filed when no trial date is set, so the
rule would be totally unworkable in that situation.
And Respondent, in one of his formulations
for what the test might be, suggests that a motion
wouldn't create excludable delay unless it would
postpone the hypothetical earliest date on which trial
could otherwise begin. That's just a totally unworkable
rule, because to divine that hypothetical date, courts
would have to assess the effect of multiple different
factors that could affect when trial would begin, such
as: How much time do the parties and the counsel need
for factual investigation and legal analysis? How long
is discovery going to take?
There would be numerous questions that would
arise about how to apply those factors. For example,
the courts would have to decide: Should they take
potential obstacles to an earlier trial as given, or
should they instead think about whether those obstacles
could be eliminated? The courts would also have to
figure out what to do if the earliest possible trial
date changed between when the motion was filed and when
the motion was resolved. And how would they take into
account other periods of time that might exclude
delay -- might exclude -- that might be excludable also?
For example, say a court gets two motions
filed at the same time. Trial could start in 5 days
absent the motion. One motion's going to take 3 days to
resolve; the other motion's going to take 4 days to
resolve. What's the court supposed to do? Is one -- is
the 3-day motion excluded? Is the 4-day motion
excluded? Are both of the motions excluded? Does it
depend on the order in which the court decides them? It
just is not possible for a court to make these
determinations.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You said at the outset
that things have been working fine. Of course, the
whole point of the Act was to hold district judges to a
pretty strict standard, and the concern is that there
might be a very complex case the judge just really wants
to put off as long as possible and will continue to
accept motion after motion. Is there anything I can -
I can read or consult to show that this has been working
very well and that there's not a problem?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I -- I can't point to
anything particular, but there's been no outcry that -
that there's been a problem from pretrial motions being
filed as a -- as an attempt to extend the Speedy Trial
Act deadline. The court's been -- the -- Congress has
reviewed the Speedy Trial Act's operation in the past.
It made changes in 1979 to address problems that have
occurred. It hasn't felt the need to address this
problem since, and there's no evidence of any abuse of
the automatic exclusion on the other side.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, on that issue,
do you accept the First Circuit's rule in U.S. v. Hood
that if the government is found to be attempting to
frustrate the operation of the Speedy Trial Act, that
those motions and their delays won't be counted?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, first, Your Honor, I
don't think that -- that Hood adopted any such rule.
The motion -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It suggests that
qualification?
MR. ROBERTS: It suggests that there might
be that qualification. I think that the statute
provides that the -- that any pretrial motion tolls the
deadline, regardless of the purpose for which it's
filed. But, of course, if -- in the unlikely event that
a prosecutor did file a motion solely to extend the
deadline and avoid proceeding to trial, that conduct
would be sanctionable under -- under the Act, under
section 3162(b)(4).
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Sanctionable against the
government, or -
MR. ROBERTS: The attorney could be
sanctioned for that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How does that help a
defendant whose speedy trial rights have been violated?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, the -- the court doesn't
need to put off trial just because time is excluded,
Your Honor, and the court has other mechanisms that it
can use -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You haven't answered my
question. The rights that this statute protects are the
rights to have your trial start within 70 days absent or
extended to these exclusions. If the government
frustrates that and makes the trial start later, why
shouldn't a defendant have the benefit of the Act and
have the indictment dismissed with or without prejudice?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, the statute provides the
circumstances in which time is excludable and in which
time is not, and it doesn't create an exception for
certain kinds of motions. It applies to any pretrial
motion. But I have to say, there's been no evidence
over the 30 years that anything like this is happening,
and in Hood itself, the motion was filed by defense
counsel, and the court was simply saying that this is
not -- that that's not what's going on here, there's no
suggestion that this motion is part of a process to try
to frustrate the Act. There's -- the problem just
hasn't arisen.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I hope you
won't sit down without addressing the (h)(1)(F) issue
and explain why we shouldn't reach it, because the issue
is, as I see it, one of law, not like Nobles, one of
discretion. And although you say it's unimportant
because of a change in Rule 45, how could any criminal
conviction that's inappropriate be unimportant to the
defendant or insignificant enough for this Court to
address the question once the case is before us?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, the Court -- the Court
does decline to address questions if it doesn't consider
them of sufficient importance to -- general importance
to warrant a review. Nobles is one example. There are
others cited in Stern and Gressman. But the reason that
this issue is not of any ongoing importance is that the
rules have been amended. It now expressly applies to
statutes like this one that don't specify a method for
counting time.
And, you know, turning to the merits of the
issue, also -- one other point on the importance of it.
The circuits all have adopted the same approach as the
Court of Appeals here, and -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Two? How many
circuits are we talking about?
MR. ROBERTS: Two other circuits, but there
aren't any that have -- that have held to the contrary.
JUSTICE ALITO: If we were to decide this
based on subsection (F) involving the counting of 10
days, wouldn't that render our decision on anything that
we had to say about subsection (D) dictum?
MR. ROBERTS: I don't think it would render
it dictum, Your Honor. The Court can address issues
in -- in whatever order it chooses to, and it doesn't
mean that the -- the decisions that you make along the
way aren't precedential and binding if they're part of
the rationale to get there. But we would -- we don't
think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not part of the
rationale. The rationale for our decision would be
(h)(1)(D) alone, and all the other discussion would be
perfectly gratuitous, because we're going to set this
individual free anyway. To say, well, this other thing
is not a good reason to set them free, but this one is,
I mean, that -- the former is just utterly irrelevant to
our decision.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, Your Honor, the
Respondent offered this argument as a ground not to
grant certiorari in its -- in his brief in opposition.
The Court nonetheless took the case. The circuits are
divided on this -- this issue -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not disagreeing with
you. I'm trying to help you.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I think you could -- I'm
not sure that I think that it would be impermissible for
-- for the Court to decide the issues in that order, but
if you think so and you think that that's a reason -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sure it's not
impermissible, but I'm also sure that if we do it, what
we say about the ground for which we took the case would
be -- would be the purest dictum.
MR. ROBERTS: I can see how you might think
so.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Courts of appeal -
MR. ROBERTS: I think the courts of appeals
would follow it. But -- but I'm not arguing that you
should just -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's their fault; they
shouldn't follow dictum, you know?
MR. ROBERTS: I'm not trying to argue you
should decide the issue. We don't think you should
decide the issue.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it because,
Mr. Roberts, as you pointed out, it's not a continuing
problem since the amendment to Rule 45, it's calendar
days, and so there's no problem, and so what you're
suggesting is we would not have granted cert on that
question?
MR. ROBERTS: Exactly. You wouldn't have
granted cert on the question. It's of no continuing
importance. It's not going to affect cases going
forward, and there's no reason for the Court to reach
out and decide it. In any event, the court of appeals
correctly decided the question. The -- the statute
doesn't specify whether the 10 days are calendar days or
business days, and it's therefore reasonable to infer
that Congress expected that the -- that the courts would
interpret the provision in accordance with the counting
rules that are applicable in similar criminal contexts.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It -- it may be
pertinent on this question: Mr. Tinklenberg was
designated for transfer to MCC in Chicago on November
10th. How was that done? Was that done by -- is that a
court order or is that an administrative -
MR. ROBERTS: I believe what happened is the
court ordered -- the court ordered on the 2nd that there
should be a competency examination. On the 10th, the -
the BOP designated that the MCC would be where the
competency examination -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the BOP did it,
not a court?
MR. ROBERTS: -- would take place.
Yes. And on then the 10th was, as it turns
out, was a Thursday before Veterans Day. Then there was
Veterans Day, and November 12th and 13th were the
weekend. So on the next Monday the Marshals Service
asked the Justice Transportation Service to transport
the defendant. But the way these things worked is that
when there are interdistrict transportation, they use
airlifts that go around the country; and the airlifts go
-- there are two flights a day.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I don't
know -
MR. ROBERTS: They make three stops.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You seem to be
getting into this. I just wanted to know if it was a
court order on the 10th, and what you're telling me is
the last court order before he was moved was on the 2nd.
MR. ROBERTS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is -- is it right that the
Rules Committee then changed it, and it basically said
the way the defendant here thinks it should be is that's
what it should be? Isn't that what happened?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay -- now -
MR. ROBERTS: The Rules -
JUSTICE BREYER: The Rules Committee said
count calendar days.
MR. ROBERTS: Changed the rule -
JUSTICE BREYER: They changed the rule.
MR. ROBERTS: -- for -- for Rule 45, yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And now you think that the
Federal courts are right in saying, judge, when you have
a Speedy Trial Act case, look to Rule 45; you think
that's right to do?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, we do. We think that
they -
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So why shouldn't
this defendant whose case was on appeal get the
advantage of that?
MR. ROBERTS: Because at the time, that
wasn't -- at the time that -- that the transportation
was done then -
JUSTICE BREYER: I know it was under a
different rule. But where -- normally with cases where
you have a new rule come in, it does apply to the
advantage of the people who were then on appeal. Is
there something special about this, that Federal rules
don't, or you just -- too bad, we thought it was a
really erroneous thing that they had, we used to have,
and we've corrected it, but just -- he's still on
appeal, it doesn't apply to him? Is there some law on
that?
MR. ROBERTS: I think -- I think that -
that at the time that was the method that -- that
dictated the transportation for him, and -
JUSTICE BREYER: I understand. I understand
they followed the rule at the time.
MR. ROBERTS: -- retroactively -
JUSTICE BREYER: They've changed the rule.
His case is still on appeal. Why shouldn't he get the
advantage of the new rule?
MR. ROBERTS: Because it's not -- it's not a
-- a rule of law that we're talking about. It's the
counting of the time, and it's impossible for a court to
anticipate -
JUSTICE SCALIA: No. You want to -
JUSTICE BREYER: It wasn't anybody's fault.
Why shouldn't we go back and say do it again, and now,
let's -- since his case is still on appeal, it's the
same question. What's the argument against doing that?
Why can't we?
I'm sure there's some rule out there that
says we can't do this, but I want to know what it is
because it seems fair.
JUSTICE SCALIA: May I suggest that perhaps
the reason not to do it is, assuming this person was
treated entirely fairly on the basis of the law that
existed at the time, the consequence of what Justice
Breyer proposes is to set free someone who has been duly
convicted of a crime.
MR. ROBERTS: That's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And to do that simply
because, although the -- the process was perfectly fair
when it was applied, there's been a change in the rule
and therefore we don't redo it, but we let this person
go; right?
MR. ROBERTS: I agree.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And can't be tried again.
JUSTICE BREYER: Any other reason?
MR. ROBERTS: I agree completely, Your
Honor. While, I think -
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, I'm thinking that
we normally -- although all this is quite true, what
Justice Scalia says, normally we do apply new rules to
those who are on appeal at the time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- I don't agree
with that. Do you agree with that?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, maybe -
MR. ROBERTS: I -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you agree with
that?
MR. ROBERTS: I don't think that you -- I
don't think that this is a new rule of law that you're
talking about. This is how the -- this is -- is the
counting method.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Who wants the
benefit of this new rule? Who wants the new rule? Does
the government want the new rule or does the defendant
want the new rule?
MR. ROBERTS: We -- we don't want the -- we
don't want the new rule. We're just telling you -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -
MR. ROBERTS: -- what we think the rule,
what the rule means.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- there's a lot -
MR. ROBERTS: I don't -- I don't
understand -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, there's a lot
of discussion about the applicability or
nonapplicability of this rule to this case. The rule by
its terms applies to computing any period of time
specified in these rules, any local rule or any court
order. None of that includes the statute at issue here,
correct?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, Your Honor. Our argument
is not that the rule by its terms applies.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So this whole debate
about whether the rule applies or not is irrelevant.
The only question is what does the statute intend,
correct?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So if what
the statute intends hasn't changed -
MR. ROBERTS: I agree with that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- between the old rule
or the revised rule, correct? Congress hasn't -
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, I like that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- made an amendment;
correct?
MR. ROBERTS: I like the way we're going.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I think you don't.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Will you like the way
we're going if I accept your proposition that when
Congress uses 10 days, it really means 10 business days?
I take words in a statute like that at their plain
meaning. It says 10 days, not 10 business days. So -
MR. ROBERTS: Well, Your Honor, I think that
there's no plain meaning. "Days" sometimes can mean
business days; they can sometimes mean calendar days,
and as I said before -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But Congress has used 10
-- has used business days in other provisions, hasn't
it?
MR. ROBERTS: I -- I don't know whether it's
used business days or not. Respondent does point out
that there are some statutes that contain specific
exclusions of weekends and holidays, but those statutes
were -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's go back to -- I
don't think you should have been so happy with the way
the argument was going -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- because -- because
your view is, Rule 40 -- if it's always assumed that
there be conformity between Rule 45 -- Rule 45, it was
business days, and then rule 45 changed not only to say
calendar days, but included statutes for the first time.
So I think what you're saying is that the
interpretation of the statute tracks with Rule 45, Rule
45 formerly was calendar -- was business days, it is now
calendar days, there is conformity. And plus, "statute"
is in Rule 45, and that was at least laid on the table
of Congress, so they know that it was there.
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, Your Honor. I think that
-- that the statute always meant the same thing, and
that it meant that 10 days should be interpreted in
light of whatever the background rule is at the time for
counting the time. And so there's no -- there's no new
rule; at the time the 10 days meant exclude the weekends
and holidays, and now because the background rule has
changed, it means count the weekends, and -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So Congress changed its
mind between the two rules?
MR. ROBERTS: No, I don't think Congress
changed its mind. Congress wanted the -- the statute
to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do I know that?
Where? Rule 45 doesn't apply to statutes.
MR. ROBERTS: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Where in the statute
does it -- say, apply the criminal rules?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I think that -- that my
point is that when it doesn't specify whether it's
business or calendar days, that Congress anticipated the
courts would say, okay, let's look to the background
rule; and the place, the sensible place to look to the
background rule is the rule -- is a rule of criminal
procedure in analogous contexts.
In fact, courts frequently do that when
they're trying to interpret statutes to figure out what
the 10-day limit is/ as many of the -- many of the cases
cited in the ALR article that Respondent cites show.
JUSTICE ALITO: When you're trying -- when
you're trying to figure out -- when you're dealing with
procedural rules that involve filing things in court, it
was once thought to make sense to exclude weekends
because things couldn't be filed on the weekends, but
when you're talking about transporting a prisoner. What
sense does it make to exclude the weekend? Does this -
MR. ROBERTS: Well -
JUSTICE ALITO: Do these flights of
prisoners from one facility to another come to a stop
when -- you know, when the whistle blows on Saturday -
on Friday afternoon?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, Your Honor, generally the
flights don't occur on the weekends or holidays. That
was sort of what I was trying to explain in my extended
digression to the Chief -- to the Chief Justice before.
The BOP doesn't admit and discharge
prisoners on the weekends. In addition, there are
various other factors that -- that go into the need to
have two -- two deputy marshals transporting people. So
the transportation doesn't generally occur on the
weekends. And it's because of the weekends and holidays
that the transportation of the defendant actually took
the amount of time that it -- that it did here.
But I would say, as I started, in urging you
not to address this issue, which is of no ongoing
importance, that the question that we did ask the Court
to address and that the Court granted review on is a
very important question that's divided the circuits; and
that allowing the rule that the court below adopted to
continue to stand could frustrate the application of the
Speedy Trial Act, not only with respect to the pretrial
motions exclusion but potentially with respect to all
the other automatic exclusions; and I think it's very
important that the Court correct this error and reaffirm
the established rule.
If I could reserve the remainder of my time
for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Fisher.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MR. FISHER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Before turning to the substance, I would
like to, if I may, start with the procedural question
that Justice Sotomayor raised and that -- and that my
opponent just completed with, because I want to be sure
there's no confusion on the posture of this case.
In particular, this Court's precedents
squarely reject the notion that there's any history in
this Court's precedents for refusing to reach an
argument in this posture. In particular, in Langness v.
Green, 282 U.S. 531, this Court held in 1931 that a
Respondent's, quote, "right" to defend a judgment below
on a ground that is properly preserved all along and
that the lower court reached and rejected is, quote,
"beyond successful challenge."
Now, I'm not sure -- I'm not aware of any
exception from that rule in the 80 years since.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose the petition here
had simply raised one question, and that is the question
of how you count time under -- under a version of Rule
45 of the Federal Rules Of Criminal Procedure that is
not -- no longer in effect and as to which there is no
conflict in the circuits. How would you grade the
chances of the Court taking cert on that?
MR. FISHER: Well, I'll take your
hypothetical, Justice Alito, but I do want to be able to
correct the notion that it's of no longer continuing
importance. But I'll assume that your hypothetical on
that kind of a question would be cert denied. But
that's never been an obstacle to reaching the question.
Let me give you two things that are very
important here. The first is the problem with the
Government's citation to Nobles is not just a
distinction between discretion and law. If you look at
the Solicitor General's own reply brief in that case, it
pointed out that the problem with the alternative
argument there was that it would give the defendant
different relief. So it was therefore subject to the
cross-petitions rule, and that's the section in Stern
and Gressman that's cited in their brief. Those are the
only two citations they have, the citations to Nobles
and the citations to Stern and Gressman, which are all
about cross-petitions when the defendant wants different
relief. We want exactly the same relief. We want a
dismissal on the Speedy Trial Act.
So finally, even if it were somehow
discretionary and this Court were to consider in this
case breaking from its unbroken precedent of 80 years -
let me give you one more example before I turn to the
discretionary.
In the Walling case in 1947, this Court
reached as an alternative ground the defendant's
argument that there was insufficient evidence. Now,
that's sort of the quintessential un-cert-worthy
question, but this Court felt required to reach it
because the lower court had reached it and rejected it
and the defendant had preserved it all along in that
case.
And in the Union Pacific case in 2009 -- I
can keep giving you citations. But let me just say,
even if it were discretionary, you would still want to
reach it in this case, because at pages 18 and 19 of the
Solicitor General's brief there are citations to a
circuit split on this issue. And the new Rule 45 hasn't
made that go away for two reasons.
The first is because the Solicitor General's
own argument now doesn't depend on Rule 45. Instead,
it's that the Speedy Trial Act on its own terms counts
10 business days, not simply calendar days. And,
second, there continue to be decisions after the
amendment of Rule 45 in which lower courts have said
that this provision means only 10 business days.
Let me give you one more citation, and
forgive me for this because we didn't get to file a
reply brief in this case on this issue. But the Zabawa
case, 2010 Westlaw, 307-5044, is a case in the Eastern
District of Michigan last summer where the Government's
own filing, which we looked at on PACER, asked the court
to apply Tinklenberg and hold that subsection (F) meant
only ten business days.
JUSTICE ALITO: If I could just come back to
where you started before you go on to these additional
points. Your argument is that if the Government
petitions for cert on one issue that's a legal issue on
which there's a conflict in the circuits and the
Respondent in a criminal case says that the -- asks to
have the decision below affirmed on 15 other grounds, we
-- and raises those in the bio, we take the case anyway,
we are duty-bound to decide every one of those 15
grounds?
MR. FISHER: You're not duty-bound to decide
it, Justice Alito. But I do think under this Court's
precedent, at least, you have never reversed the
decision below without reaching them. So you may well
affirm on the question presented or some one or two of
those questions. You may also dismiss the case as
improvidently granted, which happens sometimes in these
circumstances. Of course, what ordinarily what would
happen is when the cert -- when the ops was filed this
Court would realize there was a serious obstacle to
reaching the question and might well deny cert in the
first place. But as I said, there's no decision on this
Court's books and certainly the Solicitor General hasn't
appointed one where you've reversed and reinstated a
conviction or, in fact, reversed and done anything to a
Respondent in these circumstances.
Now, let me turn to the merits of the ten
day argument and make a few points before I'm sure the
Court might want to talk about the pretrial motions
issue as well. There's a few important points to make.
Now, remember, the Solicitor General has now basically
abandoned the Sixth Circuit's view that Rule 45
automatically gets incorporated into the Speedy Trial
Act and now they're making the making the argument that
what Congress intended in the Speedy Trial Act was
somehow for Rule 45 to operate as some background
principle. So that the meaning of the Act, I guess,
would wax and wane according to what Rule 45 said. Now,
there's two versions of this argument. I can't tell
which it's making. First it could be saying that what
Congress meant when it passed subsection F in 1979 was
that whatever the rule is in Rule 45 right now, that's
what we expect to be applied. Well, that can't possibly
be the Solicitor General's argument because in 1979 Rule
45, consistent with the traditional rule, excluded
weekends and holidays only for periods of less than
seven days. That wasn't changed until 1985. So the
Congress at the time, even if they had cared about Rule
45, wouldn't have, wouldn't have thought you counted,
excluded weekends and holidays here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why wouldn't Congress
think, we have a bunch of statutes that have times and
we have a bunch that don't and the ones that don't, they
should be interpreted into the Federal rule, that Rule
45?
MR. FISHER: I think the much more natural
reading, Justice Ginsburg, in light of the traditional
rule, which is not just cited in Am. Jur., please
understand, this is a cannon of common law, traditional
construction of time periods that goes back to
Sutherland's treatise in 1904. There's a Second Circuit
case called Morasca in 1921, 277 F.2727, I could cite
you 20 or 30 state cases all up and down the last
century. So the common law rule has always been for
periods of less than seven days -- I'm sorry, for
periods of more than seven days, it's up to the
legislature to expressly tell the court to exclude
weekends and holidays. And if you look at the U.S.
Code, it's perfectly consistent with that common law
understanding because when Congress wanted, such as in
the Bail Reform Act, to exclude weekends and holidays
from a ten day period, it expressly says so. Now, we
cited three or four examples in our brief. Again, this
is at page 40, 41 of our brief. I could have cited 15
or 20. So the U.S. Code is quite clear and I think the
much more natural inference its that when Congress
wanted to exclude weekends and holidays consistent with
the traditional rule, it felt duty bound to say so in
the U.S. Code, and when it hasn't, it wants simply
calendar days -- now, if you want confirmation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Under the 2009 amendment,
Rule 45 includes statutes it didn't before and now it
does?
MR. FISHER: It does now, but two things are
telling about the 2009 amendments. The first is that
when it switched to statutes, it reverted to counting
calendar days.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're not relying on the
2009 -
MR. FISHER: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't say -- you say
this was wrong when it was decided?
MR. FISHER: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Regardless of the 2009?
MR. FISHER: That's right, that's right.
But if you want to talk about Congressional intent, I
don't think we have to even go there. But, remember,
after the -- in 2009 there's also a Federal law, the
Technical Amendments Statutory Act made a hash of that.
But Congress went through, most recently about a year
and a half ago, and amended various provisions of the
U.S. Code according to whether it wanted weekends or
holidays excluded or times enlarged, and it left this
alone. So I think every indicia of evidence you can
look at from every possible angle shows that ten days
meant ten days at the time of the trial, and that's not
to affirm the judgment.
The last point I'll make concerning -
JUSTICE ALITO: Congress thought about the
Speedy Trial Act when it made those technical
amendments, isn't it likely to have thought the courts
had interpreted it as excluding the weekends up to that
point?
MR. FISHER: No, my point, Justice Alito, is
Congress didn't think of the Speedy Trial Act, it didn't
do anything with the Speedy Trial Act.
JUSTICE ALITO: Didn't think about -- okay.
MR. FISHER: Well, maybe we leave that where
it was, but let me make one final point that I think is
the clincher here. Remember, we have not just this
alternative argument, we have a second alternative
argument, which is that the time in relation to Mr.
Tinklenberg's competency hearing exceeded the 30 day
provision in section 4247 in the Insanity Defense Reform
Act. Now, I don't think you have to get to that
argument, you can simply affirm on the ten day issue,
but, again, let's think about what the Solicitor General
is arguing with respect to the ten day issue. They're
saying that Congress sub silentio, without saying
anything at all in the Speedy Trial Act, somehow assumed
that the time in subsection F would wax and wane
according to this rule. Well, if that's -- even though
the rule didn't even apply to statutes at the time.
Well, if that's the case, then I don't think there's any
basis for arguing that Congress would have had exactly
the same assumption with respect to another Federal
statute, that is the Insanity Defense Reform Act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And if we don't
agree with you on your Rule 45 argument, you say we
would have to reach this third argument, right?
MR. FISHER: Yes. So I think the only
way -- somehow, you've accepted the Solicitor General's
argument, which I don't think you can, but if you did
accept it on merits, it runs headlong into our third
argument, which the Solicitor General takes exactly the
opposite position, which is, the Speedy Trial Act is its
own self-contained universe that doesn't incorporate any
other statutes or any other provisions of law.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why aren't they
trying -- why isn't the effect of what you're doing to
prompt us to dismiss this case that the petitioner has
improvidently granted? If we were to write an opinion
that says that the -- the Sixth Circuit was wrong in its
interpretation of subsection (f), and therefore, we're
not going to get to -- and anything we then had to say
about subsection (d) is just dictum, and that's the
issue that we took the case to decide, why should we
keep the case at all?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think you would be very
happy if we didn't.
MR. FISHER: I think you could do that,
Justice Ginsburg. I think you could decide based on my
discussion of the Zabawa case. There's another case
that postdates the rule 45 amendments, called Clifton,
out of the Southern District of Mississippi. So you
might decide that there's enough of an ongoing question
here to write an opinion. You could do either one.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then you would have
to -- we would have to wait for another case to decide
this issue, one which is a split, that is, the delay
resulting from. What does that mean?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I can't stand the
suspense. I -- I would like to hear about the delay
point.
MR. FISHER: Right. And I think, Justice
Ginsburg, as to your -- your question, I'll just leave
it to this Court's best discretion how it wants to
handle that issue.
Now, Justice Kennedy, let me turn to the
merits.
We think this is a straightforward case
where the text dictates the outcome of the case.
Remember, the key words in the statute are "delay
resulting from," and I think the -- I think the ordinary
meaning, in fact, the only meaning, of "delay" is a
hindrance to progress or a postponement. So it's -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry to
interrupt you so early, but what about Justice
Ginsburg's point, which I understood to be there's
always delay resulting from these pretrial motions; it's
just that the district judge takes that into account,
says, well, I'm going to have a lot of the usual
pretrial motions, so I'm going to set the trial date at
this point.
So that is delay, when the trial date might
otherwise have been set, resulting from these pretrial
motions, and then the -- the statute goes on to tell you
how you count that delay.
MR. FISHER: That's exactly our argument,
Mr. Chief Justice. Our argument is there's two ways you
can have delay: One is by the trial date simply being
moved to accommodate the motion. The other -- and this
is where we agree with what the Solicitor General said
here today, as well as at page 38-39 of his opening
brief -- delay can also, in the ordinary English
language, mean that the trial date was originally set to
accommodate the motions in the way you just described.
But what the Solicitor General is arguing for is
something much more dramatic than that. They are
arguing for an exclusion of the time, even if trial date
was set irregardless of the motions -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How would you ever know
that? How would we ever know that, Mr. Fisher? A trial
judge that has had a lot of criminal cases knows that
there's going to be some motions as you get closer to
trial, but how would we know whether the judge -- this
particular judge took into account the likelihood of
motions in setting the trial date or didn't?
MR. FISHER: Well, ordinarily, Justice
Ginsburg -- remember, this is only a small subset of
cases. But in those cases, ordinarily, I would think
the trial judge would say on the record when the date is
set. Now, if it's -- if there's motion practice before
there's any date that's ever set, the NACDL brief, I
think, explains how that works in the district in the
Sixth Circuit right now. Parties often stipulate or are
asked to stipulate by the court. Common sense goes a
long way in this scenario, Justice Ginsburg. It's
obvious.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why -- why would the
defendant stipulate?
MR. FISHER: Pardon me?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why would -- why would a
defendant who would benefit from the clock running
stipulate?
MR. FISHER: Defendants don't always benefit
from the clock running, Justice Ginsburg. I think
there's two reasons why they might stipulate. One is
because it might simply be obvious that the motion is of
sufficient weight and difficulty that it's going to
consume the court's resources, so why argue something
that wouldn't have a basis to begin with?
But I think the NACDL brief is forthright in
saying, at least at the beginning of criminal cases,
often defendants find themselves wanting more time, and
so, again, they don't have the incentive to argue
against that.
JUSTICE ALITO: How do you reconcile your
argument with the situation in which the motion is
pending for 30 days, so that's the period from the
filing until the prompt disposition, and as a result of
that motion, the trial judge says this has caused -
this is going to force me, this is going to result in 10
days' delay in the date on which the case can begin, so
the trial date is pushed back 10 days? Now, in that
situation, how much time is excluded?
MR. FISHER: I think the -- the text of the
statute allows you to say either 30 or 10. I think in
light of this Court's Henderson decision -- and perhaps
I think Congress had administrability concerns in mind
with that last clause -- I think 30 days could be
excluded. But if you disagree with me on that and you
want to have a rigid textual reading of the statute
resulting from only meaning 10 days, I think that's your
only other option.
Because, if I could ask the Court, or at
least direct the Court to page 6 of the Solicitor
General's reply brief, this is where they give -
because I think what the government wants to do is pose
these difficult hypotheticals, and the sort of difficult
question you just raised, Justice Alito, and have this
Court respond by saying, oh, we're just going to throw
the words "delay resulting from" out of the statute.
Because there's only two definitions, two ways to deal
with what the Solicitor General offers.
First, they say that delay means time, and I
think ordinary -- in ordinary English language, "delay"
means something more than time. It means postponement.
So then the fallback argument -- this is the second
paragraph on page 6 -- is that the occurrence that is
postponed is the STA's deadline for commencing trial,
and our suggestion is that that begs the whole question.
That can't possibly be right, because the whole reason
that you're looking to subsection (d) to apply it is to
ask whether you should exclude the time.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me, but isn't
that what the statute says? Meaning, if you look at
(h), the beginning paragraph at (h), it says, "The
following periods of delay shall be excluded in
computing the time within which the trial of any such
offense must commence."
It's not talking about the delay of the
trial. It's talking about the computation of the start
date for the trial. So if that's what that commands you
to do, doesn't -- isn't only the Solicitor General's
position consistent with that? It's telling you to take
the periods of delay and compute the date the trial must
start by excluding those. That's the language.
MR. FISHER: I think for two reasons, I
would disagree, respectfully, Justice Sotomayor. First
is, I take that language to say that we're going to now
tell you all the circumstances under which you exclude
time, and so if any of these subsections are satisfied,
you exclude the time. But the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the -
MR. FISHER: -- Solicitor General's argument
is that you start from the premise. "Delay resulting
from" means you've already excluded the time. That's
the premise.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but that's what
(h) says; (h) says you compute the start date of the
trial, when it must start, by excluding all of these
periods of delay. It's defining it for you.
MR. FISHER: Well, if -- if there was delay.
Maybe another example, Justice Sotomayor. In
subsection 7, which is at (4)(a) of the government's
appendix, I think is another way of showing that it
can't possibly -- even if it weren't begging the
question, it can't possibly be right. It has to be
talking about the trial itself, because this is the
continuance -- the end of the justice continuance
section. And it says, "Any period of delay resulting
from a continuance granted by a judge on his own
motion," and blah, blah, blah, "if certain criteria are
met."
Now, it's very clear that in that section,
"period" -- "period of delay resulting from" can't mean
that we've already said that the clock is stopped,
because there's an "if" clause that gives you certain
things that have to be satisfied in order to exclude it.
So I think starting with the very title of the Act we're
talking about, the Speedy Trial Act, and the -- the idea
of the words "delay resulting from" can only sensibly
mean delay resulting from trial.
And so I think the definition that we've
given you again, which is, delay results from a trial if
the trial itself is postponed, or if the trial is set in
a way that accommodates the motion, is the only way to
give meaning to the operative words in the statute.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So it doesn't matter how
substantial and important a motion is, whether it was
your motion to dismiss for Speedy Trial Act reasons or
the administrative motions here that you say really
didn't require time? It doesn't matter; all that
matters is keeping track from day one, the commencement
of the trial, as to when the Court is about to set the
trial date, that it does it at the end of all the
motions. That's the only time the court can do it.
MR. FISHER: The distinction between
administrative and nonadministrative motions, I think,
doesn't matter in this case because trial wasn't -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why wouldn't it matter?
MR. FISHER: Well, it would matter, I think,
Justice Sotomayor, in a circumstance where the trial
date hadn't been set yet and then was set, and an
argument might arise -- well, I think we've had this
dialogue already to some degree. I didn't -- I expected
these kinds of motions to be filed. I knew there was
going to be a suppression hearing. We had the whole -
therefore, I set the trial out. That would seem to be
saying this was a nonadministrative matter that I had to
accommodate. I don't think a trial judge -- put another
way, I don't think a trial judge could say I'm setting
trial date outside the 70-day deadline because I had to
sign my name to that pro haec vice motion.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, actually it
happens all the time. In the "rocket docket" in
Virginia, the court sets a trial date, and you file
whatever motions you're going to file. Under your
theory, until that last motion actually delays the trial
date, none of those motions exclude time.
MR. FISHER: That may well be correct, but I
don't know why it would matter, because it doesn't
matter until you get outside of the 70 days to begin
with. So -
JUSTICE BREYER: It matters because the
trial judges have to know what to do, and while your
reading might fit the language in ordinary English
better, I think it does.
It's also possible to read those words
"delay resulting from" as simply referring to a period
of time; and the statute is saying these periods of time
are excluded from accounting. Now, the virtue of that
is just what Justice Ginsburg started with; all the
trial judges know how to do it; the lawyers don't get
mixed up; and the problem with what you're arguing for,
in my mind -- if you want to say anything more about it,
do -- is that it seems very unworkable to strike trying
to figure out what causes what.
MR. FISHER: Let me say a couple things,
Justice Breyer. First, with all due respect, I have to
disagree with your premise that it's possible to read
the statute the way the Solicitor General wants to read
it. Now I'll accept for purposes of responding to your
question, let's imagine that it were possible to read it
that way. I think our rule is not as difficult to
administer as you think it might be in the -- NACDL
brief LDY. And indeed the Solicitor General -- this has
been the -- this has been the law in -- in the Sixth
Circuit for 17 months. They haven't pointed to a single
dismissal as a result of it.
Now let me take the other side, and this
brings us to the dialogue during Mr. Roberts' argument;
the Solicitor General's rule isn't so easy, either,
unless you simply cease caring at all about the Act.
You could have a perfectly administrable rule that says
every singly motion, no matter what the circumstances,
tolls the clock.
But that's not the law in the First Circuit,
for example. They're made clear as Justice Sotomayor
said that if a motion is filed to frustrate the speedy
trial clock, then we're not going to exclude it; and
that makes perfect sense. I mean, look at this case.
And I'm not going to suggest there was any ill will or
bad faith in this case; but the facts of the case
illustrate the problem.
On August 1st, trial date was set for August
14th. There were 14 days before the trial was going to
happen. Yet there were only -- even under the best
reading there were only 10 days left on the clock. So
if no motions had been filed, unquestionably we would
have a Speedy Trial Act violation. So the government's
whole case hinges on the fact that because it filed this
purely administrative motion to bring a gun into the
courtroom, a motion I might add that at the pretrial
conference the judge had already told the government was
going to be granted, and so I don't know why it couldn't
have been made at the moment the evidence was
introduced; and one other administration motion, then
the Speedy Trial Act isn't violated.
And to borrow the Solicitor General's own
phrase from page 38 of his brief, that outcome bears no
relation to the Act's purpose. So what you have to do
to have, I think, the government's argument be at all
faithful, even if it were possible under the language -
have it be at all faithful with the purpose of the Act,
is to have some kind of exception for motions that
frustrate, motions that are pretextual, motions that are
purely administrative, however it would be defined.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why do you think that -
MR. FISHER: And you walk in -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- your motion -- I mean,
the government had administrative motions, but you had a
Speedy Trial Act motion; and you say that doesn't count,
either?
MR. FISHER: I -- well, two things, Justice
Ginsburg. First of all, we're not relying in this Court
on the Speedy Trial Act motion to get us to the Speedy
Trial Act violation. The two motions the government
filed get you to the 70 days, and so we haven't made an
argument with respect to the Speedy Trial Act. But if
we had to, the argument would be -- with regard to that
motion, would be that it didn't delay trial. Trial had
already been set, the Court said this is when we're
going to trial; trial wasn't moved, and we all went to
trial. And so -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I don't believe
I had a trial in my district court days where between
the time I had the pretrial conference and the time
trial started, there wasn't a slew of motions, because
that's about the time counsel tends to wake up.
MR. FISHER: Yes.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Okay? And -- and decide
that really now they've got to get ready.
MR. FISHER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why should we care
whether it's an administrative motion or simply to
clarify the functioning of the trial? Why should we not
exclude those times, because those -- those motions,
whether they're administrative or not, will cause the
trial to go faster, because issues that would otherwise
consume the time of the court during trial are being
resolved before trial.
MR. FISHER: I think that might be an
argument for writing the Speedy Trial Act a different
way, Justice Sotomayor; but if the question is whether
the motion delayed trial -- and that's the question that
the Speedy Trial Act requires the judge to ask and
answer -- then the administrative piece of paper going
across the judge's desk when the judge knows ahead of
time it isn't going to cause any difficult, simply
doesn't delay trial.
At page, I believe it's 5 or 6 of the NACDL
brief, they talk about pretrial conferences. And they
say what happens in the Sixth Circuit right now is the
judge holds the conference; as you say, counsel wakes
up; and everybody -- and the judge says tell me the
motions you're going to file. And the counsel from both
sides tell the judge what motions are going to be filed,
and they discuss right then and there whether they're
going to delay -- whether they're going to cause some
delay for trial. And so -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Fisher -- delay, you
make an argument about the meaning of delay. I am
troubled by the meaning of the "from the filing of the
motion" of that clause. You read that, I think, to mean
delay resulting from any pretrial moment and not to
exceed -- right -- the peered of the filing of the
filing of the motion to the conclusion of the hearing.
Right? Isn't that right?
MR. FISHER: I think that's right, and I
think that's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, where do you -- where
to you get that "not to exceed"? It doesn't say not to
exceed; it says delay resulting from the filing of the
motion.
MR. FISHER: I think the difficulty is with
the word "from," Justice Scalia. I think it's a tough
word to know exactly what transition is taking place
there, but in this Court's Bloate decision, last term, I
think -- what I'm -- the argument I'm making is
perfectly consistent with that decision, where it said
the "from clause" is sort of the boundaries on when
subsection D applies. If you're talking about delay
that a motion caused either after the hearing or before
the filing, we don't want to hear from you. But the
from clause tells you if the delay falls within those
two goalposts, then it's excludable.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a funny way to say it.
It's a funny way to say it.
MR. FISHER: I don't think it's a perfect
way to say it, either, Justice Scalia. And I said -- in
my dialogue with Justice Alito, I think that you could
also say, especially with a little bit of pushing on
Henderson, that "resulting from" actually gives you a
specific time period in between those that you have to
exclude. But I think that that's the best reading of
the Act, and again, it's the only one that gives -- that
gives meaning to the phrase delay resulting from.
If I might just say one or two words to
circle back to where I began, Mr. Tinklenberg urges you
to affirm the Sixth Circuit decision or to dismiss this
case as improvidently granted; but what he urges you not
to do and thinks there's no basis in precedent for
doing, which is to reverse the lower court without
reading the alternative arguments; and with all due
respect, the 10-day argument that we preserved in our
bio and we fully made in our bottom side brief in this
case, I think is extraordinarily strong, and it's
difficult to get around in this case for all the reasons
I've explained.
So with that, I'll -- I'll answer any other
questions this Court has about that argument, because I
think it's very important. Otherwise, I'm happy to
submit the case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Roberts, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Your Honor.
First I would like to stress that the
government thinks that it's very important that the
Court address the question that we raised in our cert
petition, and that the Court granted certiorari to
answer, on which there's a split in the circuits and
which we believe that if it's left standing will result
in serious disruption to the Speedy Trial Act.
Turning to -- to that question, a few points
first. Respondent's definition of delay is plainly
inconsistent with Henderson which already holds that the
period of delay that's excludable is the time between
the filing of the motion and the disposition of the
motion. That can't be squared with the notion that
delay is the period during which trial is postponed.
Second, Respondent's definition of delay
gives delay a different meaning in the first part of the
statute and in subsection D, where this Court's already
held that it has the meaning that we suggest.
Third, Respondent's test is totally
unworkable, because you can't tell at the time a motion
is filed how much time it's going to take to resolve and
whether trial is going to be postponed. District Court
judges have over 500 pending cases on their docket, an
average District Court judge. A hundred of them are
criminal. The court -- the Speedy Trial Act cannot
function if the judges are going to have to make a
complex judicial determination in each case to determine
whether each motion is excludable.
Respondent says that NACDL says defendants
won't object or that they'll stipulate to the exclusion
of time, but NACDL also says that defendants may change
their mind if the case goes to trial, and if they change
their mind and file a motion to dismiss under the Speedy
Trial Act, their prior failures to object and
stipulations may very well not be binding because this
Court held in Zedner that defendants can prospectively
waive the application of the Act. And Respondent's
tests would also throw the established way that the
Speedy Trial Act has been operating for over 30 years
into disarray.
Turning to whether this Court has to address
the alternative arguments for affirmance, Nobles plainly
says that the Court has discretion not to address those
issues if those issues are not independently worthy of
certiorari. It doesn't base that on the fact that
the -- on the fact that the argument would expand the
judgment below, and the rule that it's discretionary
makes sense, because the contrary rule would require the
court to address numerous issues that are not important
and -- in every case where they're raised, and would
also lead the court to either dismiss writs as
improvidently granted or to address only as dicta
important issues on which the Court has granted
certiorari.
Finally -
JUSTICE ALITO: So given the choice between
a dismissal and an affirmance with good dictum about
subsection (d), you would prefer the latter?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, I think that we would
like the Court to address the issue on which cert was
granted. We think it's a very important issue. We
think that the courts of appeals would follow it even if
it might technically be viewed as dicta. We would think
that it would be an alternative holding or ratio
decidendi.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:19 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
53:12 44:14 amendment appointed 29:16 August 45:9,9
39:2 31:23 12:12 9:18 25:3
34:11 administration 35:6 38:13 average 51:17
45:21 amount 7:15 arguing 14:6 avoid 10:10
36:19,24 45:16 46:6,10 analysis 6:18 8:2 argument 1:12
angle 32:22 2:2,5,8 3:3,6 B
24:24 anticipate 18:6 26:24 27:15 background
36:8 37:9
18:2 23:11 30:1,6,11 33:13 23:14 30:3
10:11 11:3
49:25 28:25 36:17 38:16 base 52:13
16:24
27:7 28:5
17:12,17 18:1 42:23 44:20 basically 7:11
31:13
33:2,7,8
34:4
41:23,24
44:22
20:25 APPEARANC... arguments 50:4 began 49:24
46:3
36:20 1:14 52:10 begging 41:10
49:21
51:18
26:5,13 applicable 15:4 28:15 37:19 behalf 1:17,18
29:4 33:1 application 24:25 asks 28:23 2:4,7,10 3:7
34:16 52:5 assess 7:24 25:11 50:17
39:13 applied 18:25 Assistant 1:15 believe 15:10
52:24 30:10 assume 26:15 46:24 48:1
12:2,23
50:21
49:3 18:10 20:11 Chicago 15:7 Clifton 35:6 conflict 26:10
28:13,23,25 16:2,5 19:14,16 45:4,12 confusion 25:18
50:13 51:20,25 circle 49:24 commence 40:8 33:1,7,21 34:2
52:18 53:10,11 circuit 28:1 31:3 commencement 39:2
19:5,8 cases 3:25 5:16 34:20 37:18 42:12 Congressional
44:8 5:17 6:25 14:21 44:17 45:1 48:3 commencing 32:13
28:12 31:5 37:6,13,13 circuits 12:12,15 Committee 18:19
36:22 38:11 51:16 12:16 13:15 16:11,17 consider 12:2
38:10 cause 47:13,24 24:23 26:10 common 31:1,6 27:9
44:15 48:9 28:22 50:23 31:11 37:19 consistent 30:12
48:2 50:6 caused 38:19 Circuit's 9:20 competency 31:11,19 40:13
cert 14:17,20 circumstances 51:20 consult 9:7
22:8,12 26:11,16 28:21 11:6 29:10,18 computation consume 38:8
28:6,9,17 29:11,13 50:21 40:19 44:24 40:10 47:15
citation 26:20 compute 40:14 contain 21:23
16:18 certiorari 13:14 cite 31:4 concern 5:15 9:3 continuance
22:9,12 50:22 52:13,22 cited 12:5 23:19 concerning 32:25 41:13,13,15
23:11 challenge 26:2 27:2 30:25 concerns 3:13 continue 9:5
31:22 32:4 chances 26:11 31:15,16 39:2 24:25 28:7
26:14 29:12,21 31:9 43:10,13 45:9 decline 12:2 denied 26:16
42:13,15 43:10 16:1 29:20 defendant 10:18 Department 1:16
50:21,22 51:15 days 6:4,5,6,8,10 19:24 24:17 deputy 24:14
25:4 52:11,17,19,21 10:25 12:20 37:23 38:1 designated 15:7
43:14 53:3 14:16,25,25 defendants 38:3 15:13
14:24 8:6,9 14:4,5 21:15,16,16,19 defendant's 6:21 51:20
20:3,9 23:12,16 28:8 22:13,18,21 defense 11:11 8:24
46:24 47:3 33:3 53:5 23:11 28:6,6,9 33:16 34:4 determine 51:20
50:14 court's 3:23,25 28:17 30:14 defined 46:6 dialogue 42:24
9:13 25:19,21 31:7,8,22 32:4 defines 4:18 44:20 49:16
26:7 38:8 39:1 49:3 38:21,22 39:3,6 definition 4:20 dictated 17:21
46:11 51:10 43:16 45:10,12 6:13 42:2 51:2 dictates 35:24
crime 18:21 deadline 3:12 definitions 39:16 14:1,9 34:23
18:5 19:21 11:22 15:4 23:8 10:10 39:23 delay 3:14 4:7,9 different 7:24
32:3 23:14 26:8 43:6 4:10,13,14,18 17:10 26:25
27:1,5 decide 8:6 12:18 7:20 8:14 35:12 difficulty 38:7
4:4,5 6:11 D 14:23 29:1,3 36:12,15,18,22 digression 24:10
d 1:15 2:3,9 3:1,6 34:24 35:4,8,11 38:21 39:15,18 direct 39:9
11:12 4:17 5:4 6:1 47:6 39:19 40:6,9,14 disagree 39:4
12:1,1,13 12:21 13:6 decided 14:24 40:24 41:5,6,14 40:17 44:9
13:15,21 34:23 40:1 49:7 32:9 41:19,25 42:1,3 disagreeing
15:9 50:16 51:10 decidendi 53:8 43:23 46:20 13:17
53:1 decides 8:22 47:25 48:9,10 disarray 52:8
18:5 date 7:2,6,9,13 decision 12:20 48:11,12,15,23 discharge 24:11
23:22 7:16,21,23 8:11 13:5,11 28:24 49:7,10,22 51:2 discovery 8:3
36:10,12,18,23 29:6,14 39:1 51:4,7,8,9 discretion 11:21
26:1 37:2,10,14,16 49:3,5,25 delayed 47:20 26:21 35:19
27:9,13 38:21,22 40:11 decisions 3:23 delays 9:23 52:11
28:15 40:14 41:3 12:25 28:7 43:12 discretionary
43:6
effect 3:21 7:24 22:21 23:23 fact 23:16 29:17 find 38:12
26:9 34:17 24:1 31:9,13,19 36:2 45:15 findings 4:4
35:5 49:8,15 52:19 45:4 47:12 24:13 9:20,24 22:9
42:9 English 36:22 excluded 4:9 5:9 factual 8:2 29:14 30:7 32:2
52:1,19 39:19 43:20 5:23 8:20,21,21 failures 52:2 39:18 40:17
52:25 entirely 18:18 32:20 38:23 fairly 18:18 50:19 51:2,9
5:6,12 especially 49:17 excludes 3:14 fallback 39:21 26:12 29:3
6:2,10 ESQ 1:15,18 2:3 5:7,20 falls 49:10 30:23 32:1,7,10
51:5 2:6,9 excluding 33:4 faster 47:14 32:12 33:6,10
estimated 7:15 3:19,25 4:2 5:4 Federal 16:23 37:24 38:3,24
35:7 36:8 events 4:15 37:2 51:23 30:21 32:15 42:16,20 43:14
46:25 everybody 48:5 exclusions 3:12 34:3 44:7 46:8,13
evidence 9:17 11:1 21:24 25:3 felt 9:16 27:17 47:4,8,17 48:11
32:21 45:20 existed 18:19 figure 8:10 23:17 fit 43:20
27:6 34:2,12 expected 15:2 43:10,11 48:6 follow 14:6,9
50:3 examination explain 11:19 filed 4:3 6:4,22 followed 17:23
exceed 48:16,22 extend 9:12 10:9 48:7 51:14 formulations
8:14 11:6 49:11 f 11:18 12:19 51:5 frequently 23:16
24:25 28:2,19 32:14 h 11:18 13:6 40:5 24:7 50:18 indicate 6:24
46:5 47:14 40:5 41:3,3 Hood 9:20,25 indicia 32:21
8:3,17,18 11:13 happen 29:11 7:21,23 26:13 inference 31:18
36:9,10 16:13 39:12 34:4
29:15,23 45:10,19 46:22 happy 22:2 35:2 ill 45:6 27:15
34:12 47:22,24 48:6,7 50:12 illustrate 45:8 intend 20:20
39:17 48:9,9 51:14,15 hash 32:16 imagine 44:12 intended 30:2
51:19 headlong 34:11 impermissible intends 20:24
government 9:21 49:9 importance 12:3 interdistrict
28:3 19:24 28:20 33:15 43:1 24:21 26:15 interpret 15:3
34:9 39:11 45:18 48:17 49:8 important 3:10 23:17
40:12,23 46:10,16 50:20 held 3:19 6:11 24:23 25:4 interpretation
45:23 government's 12:17 25:23 26:19 29:22 22:11 34:21
21:8 22:1 grade 26:10 Henderson 4:1,4 impossible 6:21 33:4
30:18,24 grant 13:14 5:13 6:11 39:1 18:5 interrupt 36:5
35:1,4,10 granted 14:17,20 49:18 51:3 improvidently interval 4:11,15
37:4,12 24:22 29:9 hindrance 36:3 29:9 34:19 50:1 introduced 45:21
34:19 41:15 hinges 45:15 52:20 investigation 8:2
44:1 46:7 45:19 50:1,22 history 25:20 inappropriate involve 23:22
52:20,21 53:4 hold 9:2 28:16 11:23 involving 12:19
28:10 Gressman 12:5 holidays 21:24 includes 20:14 20:19
42:6 27:2,4 22:22 24:8,16 31:24 issue 9:19 11:18
25:25 27:14 31:13,19 32:20 51:3 13:16 14:11,12
29:2 7:4 9:24 10:21 34:14 28:1,12,21,21
guess 30:4 12:23 13:12 incorporated 29:22 33:18,20
22:1 24:13 H 52:12
47:14 34:16 35:1,4,10 law 11:20 17:17 match 5:25 51:25 52:1
35:14,17,21 18:4,18 19:19 matter 1:11 42:7 minutes 50:15
37:4 26:21 31:1,6,11 42:11,18,19,20 Mississippi 35:7
25:10 41:7,13 42:7,19 LDY 44:15 43:18 Monday 15:21
16:23 36:8 44:1,8 45:2 leave 33:10 1:15 2:3,9 3:6 Morasca 31:4
46:7,9,13,24 35:18 50:16 motion 3:15,15
41:15 47:6,9,19 48:11 left 32:20 45:12 MCC 15:7,13 3:17,20 4:3,11
45:18 48:21 49:1,12 50:24 mean 7:11 12:25 4:19,20 5:6,6
48:4,5 49:15,16 50:14 legal 8:2 28:21 13:10 19:8 5:12 6:4,5,19
51:17 52:24 53:9 legislature 31:9 21:15,16 35:13 6:22 7:9,19
44:2 23:12 33:19 42:1 45:5 46:9 8:20 9:6,6 10:1
K 44:12 48:14 10:6,9 11:9,11
52:15 Kennedy 4:21 likelihood 37:9 21:13,15 30:4 38:19 41:16
5:14 kind 26:16 46:4 local 20:13 51:9,11 46:9,11,15,20
8:25 9:19 kinds 11:8 42:25 long 8:2 9:5 means 5:22 6:6 47:10,20 48:14
knew 42:25 37:20 20:5 21:11 48:17,24 49:8
12:14,18 know 4:13,16 longer 5:11 26:9 22:23 28:9 51:5,6,13,21
14:4 12:10 14:9 16:3 26:14 39:18,20,20 52:1
15:5,15 16:6 17:9 18:14 look 16:24 23:12 40:25 motions 3:14 7:1
16:2,5,10 21:21 22:15 23:13 26:21 meant 5:8 22:17 7:5,7,13,16
23:4 24:5 37:4 31:10 32:22 22:18,21 28:16 8:15,21 9:11,23
37:5,8 43:15,19 40:4 45:5 30:8 32:23 11:8 25:2 29:21
44:2 45:19 49:2 looked 28:15 mechanism 6:14 36:7,10,14,24
19:4,5,8 knows 37:6 looking 40:1 mechanisms 37:3,7,10 42:10
47:23 lot 20:6,9 36:9 10:21 42:15,17,25
20:3,6,9 37:6 merits 12:10 43:11,13 45:13
21:1,4 L
22:1 L 1:18 2:6 25:10 lower 26:1 27:18 35:22 47:2,12 48:6,7
23:4,7 laid 22:14 28:8 50:3 met 41:17 motion's 8:17,18
24:3,10 Langness 25:22 method 12:8 moved 16:8
26:5 language 36:23 M 17:20 19:21 36:19 46:22
28:18 39:19 40:15,18 making 30:1,1,7 Michigan 28:14 moves 7:8
30:18,24 43:20 46:2 49:4 mind 6:25 22:25 multiple 7:24
32:5,8,11 Laughter 21:7 marshals 15:21
44:14 oh 39:14 36:21 39:9,22 phrase 45:24 13:1
51:22,24 okay 16:15 17:3 45:24 48:1 49:22 precedents
once 4:3 11:25 paragraph 39:22 23:13,13 29:14 prejudice 11:4
24:13 ongoing 12:6 part 5:24 6:13 plainly 51:2 presented 29:7
operate 30:3 particular 9:10 30:25 pretextual 46:5
20:2 operating 52:7 25:19,22 37:9 plus 22:13 pretrial 3:10,13
28:1 operation 9:14 parties 8:1 37:18 point 5:15 9:2,9 3:15 9:11 10:6
26:20 27:3 operative 42:6 peered 48:16 23:10 32:25 36:7,10,13
opinion 34:19 pending 38:17 33:5,6,11 35:16 45:17 47:1 48:2
43:3 opponent 25:17 people 17:12 pointed 14:14 pretty 9:3
opposition 13:14 perfect 45:5 points 28:20 prior 52:2
option 39:7 perfectly 13:7 pose 39:11 prisoners 24:4
51:6 3:6 25:10 44:23 49:5 40:13 pro 43:7
13:21 15:9 16:7 5:9,10,20,21 9:5 32:22 43:22 9:17 11:15
41:22 20:12 31:14 possibly 30:10 26:23 44:3 45:8
originally 36:23 40:6,14 41:5 42:4 51:7,15 proceeding
outcry 9:10 19:1 36:3 39:20 process 11:14
P petitioner 1:4,17 practice 37:15 34:18 38:18
R Reform 31:13 28:23 29:18 2:9 3:3,5,6,8
39:13 50:21 regard 46:19 4:20 25:24 51:2 10:4,15,19 11:5
rationale 13:2,5 reject 25:20 response 7:9 15:5,10,15,17
33:16 reach 11:19 26:1 27:18 result 4:9,23 16:16,19,21
34:15 27:17,24 34:7 45:25 50:24 18:3,22 19:3,6
27:14,18 27:6 4:8,18 35:13 19:22 20:1,4,7
46:3 read 9:7 43:22 remainder 25:6 41:14,19,25 22:16 23:1,6,9
45:12 49:20 render 12:20,22 7:10 42:3 rocket 43:9
really 4:22 9:4 required 27:17 29:17 16:21,24 17:10
11:25 42:10 47:7 reserve 25:6 review 12:4 18:2,4,13,25
reason 12:5 13:9 resolve 6:5 8:18 24:22 19:19,23,23,24
18:11 13:22 14:22 8:19 51:14 reviewed 9:14 19:25 20:2,4,5
24:21,23 18:17 19:5 resolved 8:12 revised 21:2 20:11,11,13,17
26:6,6,16 39:25 47:16 right 16:10,23,25 20:19 21:1,2
27:17 reasonable 15:1 resources 38:8 18:22 19:2 22:6,7,7,8,11
35:8,18 reasons 28:2 respect 25:1,2 20:23 25:24 22:11,14,19,21
41:11 38:5 40:16 42:9 33:20 34:3 44:8 30:9 32:12,12 22:22 23:5,13
47:19,20 50:8 46:18 50:5 34:7 35:17 23:14,14,14
51:1 rebuttal 2:8 25:7 respectfully 37:18 39:25 24:24 25:5 26:4
29:8 50:11 reconcile 38:15 respond 39:14 48:18,18,19 28:4,8 29:24
redo 19:1
33:13 39:21 single 44:17 29:25 30:2 33:2 Statutory 32:16
31:6,20 51:8 singly 44:24 33:7,8,22 34:13 STA's 39:23
33:24,25 section 10:12 sit 11:18 41:24 42:9 45:3 Stern 12:5 27:1,4
35:6 44:13 27:1 33:16 situation 7:17 45:14,22 46:11 stipulate 37:18
52:15 41:14,18 38:16,23 46:15,15,18 37:19,23 38:2,5
see 11:20 14:2 Sixth 29:24 47:18,21 50:25 51:23
34:14 44:16 48:3 split 28:1 35:12 stop 24:4
19:10 sense 23:23 24:1 49:25 50:23 stopped 41:20
22:25 37:19 45:5 slew 47:2 squared 4:4 51:6 stops 16:4
26:8 52:16 small 37:12 squarely 25:20 straightforward
13:7,9 18:20 36:25 39:9,17 11:2 25:15 subject 26:25
42:13,22,22 sorry 31:7 36:4 started 24:19 53:12
22:10 setting 7:6 37:10 Sotomayor 9:19 state 31:5 28:16 30:8
33:21,21 43:5 10:2,13,17,23 States 1:1,3,12 33:23 34:21,23
39:14 seven 30:14 31:7 11:17 20:3,6,9 3:4 40:1 41:8 49:7
31:8 20:18,23 21:1,4 statute 4:7,17 51:10 53:1
18:14 19:10 show 9:7 23:19 23:4,7 25:16 6:15 10:5,24 40:20
28:23 showing 41:9 40:3,17,22 41:2 11:5 14:24 subset 37:12
34:20 shows 32:22 41:7 42:7,19,21 20:14,20,24 substance 25:14
38:19 40:4 side 9:18 44:19 43:8 45:2 46:24 21:12 22:11,13 substantial 42:8
41:3,3,14 50:6 47:6,9,19 22:17 23:2,7 successful 26:2
48:5,23 sides 48:7 Southern 35:7 34:4 35:25 sufficient 12:3
sign 43:7 special 17:13 36:14 38:25 38:7
significantly 5:11 specific 21:23 39:5,15 40:4 suggest 18:16
18:7,16,23 similar 15:4 specified 20:13 44:10 51:10 suggesting 14:17
32:5 simply 11:12 specify 12:8 statutes 12:8 suggestion 11:14
48:11 18:23 26:6 28:6 14:25 23:10 21:23,24 22:9 39:24
49:1,12 31:21 33:18 speedy 3:11 4:12 23:5,17 30:19 suggests 7:19
36:18 38:6 9:12,14,22 31:24 32:3 10:2,4
test 7:19 51:12 51:12 track 42:12 tried 19:4
25:17 50:14,18 53:9 throw 39:14 52:6 transition 49:2 trying 13:18
29:20 theory 43:12 Thursday 15:19 transport 15:22 14:10 23:17,20
things 9:1 15:23 5:21,24 6:9,9 17:21 24:15,17 Tuesday 1:9
41:22 44:7 7:15 8:1,13,16 23:25 24:14 29:19 35:21
13:22 14:2,5,11 22:9,19,20,21 5:23,24 6:4,5,7 12:14,16 16:1
21:12 16:22,24 17:1 24:18 25:6 26:7 6:14,19 7:2,2,5 22:25 24:14,14
28:25 17:19,19 19:7 30:15 31:2 7:6,9,13,16,21 26:18 27:3 28:2
44:19 19:18,19 20:4 32:23 33:14,23 7:25 8:7,10,16 29:7 30:6 32:1
21:8,14 22:2,10 33:25 37:2 9:12,14,22 36:17 38:5
25:3 29:4 30:19 39:20 40:2,7,20 11:2 16:24 25:1 46:13,16 49:11
32:14,21 33:7,9 42:15 43:9,13 30:2 32:23 33:2
19:20 34:1,8,10 35:1 47:3,15,24 36:10,12,18,23 unbroken 27:10
40:9,10 35:3,4,17,23 49:19 51:4,13 37:2,5,8,10,14 uncertain 6:18
49:7 36:1,1 37:13,17 51:14,24 38:19,22 39:23 understand
39:2,3,6,11,19 32:20 47:12 41:4,12,24 42:1 31:1
40:19 43:4,5,21 44:13 49:24 43:2,4,5,6,10 understood 36:6
51:13 44:14 46:1,7 Tinklenberg's 43:12,19 44:2 uniformly 3:19
40:13 48:20,25 49:1,4 title 41:23 45:22 46:11,15 11:21,23
32:22,23 53:5,6 tolled 4:13 47:2,11,14,15 3:4
thinking 19:8 tolls 10:6 44:25 47:16,18,20,21 universe 34:14
44:5 31:22 32:13 we've 17:16 45:12 52:7
39:5 44:4 49:9 41:20 42:2,23 10th 15:8,12,18 307-5044 28:13
31:12,19 32:19 word 49:1,2 10-day 23:18 38 45:24
1:16 works 37:17 15 28:24 29:1 4247 33:16
wasn't 17:7 18:8 worthy 52:12 31:16 45 11:22 14:15
42:18 wouldn't 7:20 16 6:5,10 16:21,24 22:7,7
way 13:1 15:23 38:9 42:19 19 27:24 28:4,8 29:24
22:2 34:9 36:24 writing 47:18 1921 31:4 30:22 31:24
47:19 1979 9:15 30:8
X 5 8:16 48:1
30:11
1985 30:14
6
years 3:18 11:10 2nd 15:11 16:8
23:23
23:24 24:8,12 2009 27:21 31:23 7
32:19 2011 1:9 46:17
22 1:9 70-day 43:6
1:5 3:4
20:1,2 40:18 41:23 21:18 22:18,21 30 3:18 11:10
26:13 45:4 46:14,21 28:6,9 38:20,22 31:5 33:15
29:21 38:25 39:6 38:17,25 39:3
