IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MARCUS SYKES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-11311
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 12, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
WILLIAM E. MARSH, ESQ., Indianapolis, Indiana; on behalf
of Petitioner.
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
WILLIAM E. MARSH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
WILLIAM E. MARSH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 09-11311, Sykes v. United
States.
Justice Ginsburg is not on the bench, but
will participate in the argument through the transcripts
and -- and the tapes.
Mr. Marsh.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM E. MARSH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MARSH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Armed Career Criminal Act enhances the
punishment for possession of a firearm or ammunition for
a person who has three previous convictions for a
violent felony. This case involves, as you know,
vehicular fleeing, which Indiana has divided into five
categories. Indiana statute treats vehicular fleeing as
a continuum of behavior ranging from merely failing to
stop, on the low end, which is the crime Mr. Sykes was
convicted of violating, all the way to fleeing which
results in the death of a police officer, on the high
end, which in Indiana is a class A felony.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's in between?
MR. MARSH: The second tier up is what we
refer to as (b)(1)(B), which is fleeing which either
causes bodily injury or creates a substantial risk of
bodily injury. The next category up is fleeing which
causes serious bodily injury. The fourth category is
fleeing which causes a death.
This Court recognizes -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So we can assume that the
conviction here did not involve any risk of bodily
injury to anybody?
MR. MARSH: That's our position, Your Honor.
When the court considers the conduct encompassed by the
elements of the offense -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. MARSH: -- then that conduct does not
involve conduct which creates a risk of bodily injury.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why is that -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm sure you'll do so in
the course of your argument, but at some point give us
some examples of violations of -- of this -- this
statute which from a commonsense standpoint don't
involve a serious risk. There was something in the
brief about, oh, well, the defendant might want to just
find a safe place to pull over. I -- I didn't follow
that because it's an intent crime. I just don't see how
that would be a violation. But if at some point in your
argument you could address those points.
MR. MARSH: Well, I'd be happy to respond
now, Justice Kennedy. The court -- the case that you
referred to is the Indiana case of Woodward, from the
Indiana Court of Appeals, in which the court held that
exactly that conduct did violate this statute because
the -- knowingly or intentionally, the mens rea element,
goes only to fleeing and using a vehicle. So that was
one example -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Looking -
MR. MARSH: -- of merely failing to stop.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Looking
-- looking -- I don't mean to interrupt your answer, but
looking for a safe place to stop violates the statute?
MR. MARSH: That was the holding of the
Indiana Court of Appeals, yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're supposed to stop
dead in your tracks and not pull off on the shoulder? I
mean, I don't -- I just don't understand this. I'll go
read the case, but -
MR. MARSH: Well, the court didn't -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't drive in Indiana.
I think that's pretty tough.
MR. MARSH: The court did not elaborate,
Your Honor, on where the line is, but -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Maybe that's why -- why
it's a risk. You stop in the middle of the road and
then everybody -
(Laughter.)
MR. MARSH: That would be more likely to
create a risk, but the whole -
JUSTICE SCALIA: How can you say somebody is
fleeing? I mean, doesn't fleeing mean you're trying to
escape the -- the officer?
MR. MARSH: Justice Scalia, the holding of
the Indiana Court of Appeals was in response to a
position taken by the defendant, sort of along the lines
of the two lines of questioning, which is surely the
statute requires something more than merely failing to
stop, but the Indiana Court of Appeals used precisely
that language. It -
JUSTICE ALITO: I think the problem with
your argument is that the prosecution is not under any
obligation to charge any offense greater than the
offense for which your client was convicted in a case in
which there is a very grave risk created by a flight.
Isn't that true?
MR. MARSH: The prosecutor is not under any
obligation; was that the question, Justice Alito?
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes.
MR. MARSH: Yes, I think that's -- I think
that's correct. The prosecutor -
JUSTICE ALITO: So you -- the fact that
someone is convicted of this offense does not show that
a broad category of offenses within this crime lack the
risk that's necessary under the Armed Career Criminal
Act.
MR. MARSH: Well, I suggest that it does,
Your Honor, because the -- the James case makes clear
that the court will determine whether the crime creates
a serious potential risk of physical injury to another
by looking at the conduct encompassed by the elements of
the offense. Now, the fact that some other offense
maybe could have been charged or was charged, I suggest,
on the categorical approach is not relevant.
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you familiar with the
case called Hape v. State, Indiana Court of Appeals
2009?
MR. MARSH: Tate versus -
JUSTICE ALITO: Hape. H-a-p-e.
MR. MARSH: I'm not, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: During a 45 -- and this
involved the offense at issue here. During a 45-minute
high-speed chase, officers shot at the defendant's truck
at least 20 times. The State's facts showed that the
defendant drove over 100 miles an hour and at times
drove into the oncoming traffic lane.
Do you think that creates a -- a serious
potential risk of -- of harm?
MR. MARSH: Well, those, of course, aren't
the facts here. And I would have to know what the
individual was convicted of, because, of course, under
the categorical -
JUSTICE ALITO: I believe he was convicted
of the same offense as -- as Mr. Sykes.
MR. MARSH: But, of course, under the
categorical approach established by Taylor and followed
consistently by this Court since that time, the court
doesn't look at the facts of the individual case. The
court looks at it categorically. So if the -
JUSTICE BREYER: But looking at it
categorically, I've always thought, means you look to
see not just what the elements are on paper, but whether
the elements as -- as used in reality in the State are
applied to cases that do present -- in general, you
apply it to cases that do present a serious risk of
physical injury. And you'd think the answer is we don't
know because no one's gone and looked. You could do it
through sampling, but no one's gone and looked. I've
just said that's my view of it.
The -- the -- so what do we do? I mean, I
can deal with a lot of other States, but Arizona has
exactly the same classification of felony when you use a
vehicle and when you use a vehicle creating a serious
risk of physical harm to others. It's in the same
provision, same statute, same category. How do we work
with that, in your opinion?
MR. MARSH: If the -
JUSTICE BREYER: Are you following what I'm
doing? You understand the difference between Arizona
and 46 other States?
MR. MARSH: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: In the other States, they
grade it. But here they don't.
MR. MARSH: Right. Well, Indiana, of
course, does grade it, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Indiana -- I'm sorry.
MR. MARSH: And it is significant that the
second most serious category is where the conduct does
present a substantial risk of bodily injury.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I -- I don't know how
we could proceed by looking at, you know, whether in
fact a majority of the cases that come into this first
relatively harmless category did indeed involve
situations that involved physical risk because, as
everybody knows, prosecutors plea bargain, and it's
probably very often the case that the defendant is
charged only under -- under category 1, where, you know,
if he went to trial, they'd charge him under 3; isn't
that so?
MR. MARSH: But, of course, Your Honor -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, yes. You want to say
"yes."
(Laughter.)
MR. MARSH: Thank you. Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I still -- look, what
I'm thinking of -- and I need a little explanation -- we
look to see in (b), and it says it's a class D felony if
a vehicle is used. That's (A) under (1). Am I right?
MR. MARSH: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Then we look to (B)
under (1), and it's also a class D felony -- in other
words, the same -- if a vehicle is operated in a manner
that creates a substantial risk of bodily injury.
MR. MARSH: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: So a prosecutor looking at
that will say: Why don't I just charge (A); what's the
point of charging (B)?
I mean, it makes no difference apparently.
It's simpler to prove (A).
MR. MARSH: Justice Breyer, in 2003, when
Mr. Sykes was convicted of this offense, what you said
is exactly right. Of course, we have no way of knowing
the motivation of prosecutors generally, let alone in
this case. And it wouldn't really matter what it was in
this case, what it is generally. But I think it's
significant that in 2006 the Indiana General Assembly
amended that statute so now the (B) violation carries
with it a mandatory jail sentence, 60 days.
JUSTICE BREYER: I can deal with it more
easily then, at least I have -- but what's worrying me
now is what we're supposed to do is: Is the offense an
offense that presents a serious risk of physical injury
to another?
MR. MARSH: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: So we're here trying to
decide whether the (A) one does.
MR. MARSH: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the answer is I don't
know, and the reason I don't know is I don't know how
that offense language of (A) is applied in Indiana.
MR. MARSH: If the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, do you know if
Indiana has an enhancement for convictions, sentencing
enhancement of any kind, for convictions that have an
element of -- of risk of harm to others?
MR. MARSH: Your Honor, there are a number
of habitual sentencing enhancements, one of which
specifically relates to driving. I can't say that it is
based on substantial -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So it's possible that
there is a -- there's a use of the difference between
the two categories that might not be implicated in this
case but may lay the foundation for an enhancement
later?
MR. MARSH: Yes. Now, that's a good point,
Justice Sotomayor. The -- the enhancements generally in
Indiana relate to previous convictions, and so I can't
say for sure, but it's entirely possible that (B),
(b)(1)(B), would be a predicate crime for a habitual
traffic offender, which is what it's called.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In your brief, you take
issue with the Government's definition of "aggressive,"
but would you give us yours?
MR. MARSH: Well, Your Honor -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How would you define it
and on what basis?
MR. MARSH: Your Honor, the best definition
of "aggressive" that I've seen was in the First Circuit
opinion in the Herrick case, which is cited in our
brief, which the First Circuit refers to as forceful
action, especially where intended to dominate or master.
But on general everyday language, it strikes
me that when a law enforcement officer wants somebody to
stop, whether they're in a vehicle or not, the fight or
flee sort of comes into play. And the person who
responds by going toward the police officer and
resisting in that way, which is the first part of this
Indiana statute, would be acting in an aggressive way.
The person who flees is not acting in an aggressive way.
They're trying to avoid the confrontation. They're
trying to get away from the law enforcement.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Marsh, I take it that
you would agree that (b)(1)(B) is a violent felony
under -- under ACCA; is that right?
MR. MARSH: Your Honor, it may very well be.
It certainly would satisfy the risk element, similar in
risk to the -- to the Begay case. I think it would
still have to be decided whether it's violent and
aggressive, but it may very well be.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, if we think that
(b)(1)(B) is a violent felony under ACCA, and we know
that (b)(1)(A) and (b)(1)(B) can receive the same
punishment, that they're both classed as a class D
felony, why should we make the distinction between the
two under ACCA?
MR. MARSH: Your Honor, I would suggest
because the Indiana General Assembly has decided in
enacting this legislation that some vehicular fleeing
presents a substantial risk of bodily injury to another
and some doesn't, and they've drawn this distinction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I presume that if -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But these are not nested
offenses. These are not -
MR. MARSH: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE KAGAN: These are not lesser
included offenses. Each has an element that the other
lacks, and both are classed with -- apparently that the
-- that the State thinks of them as equally severe. And
if one is a violent felony under ACCA, there's an
argument that the other should be treated in the exact
same way.
MR. MARSH: Your Honor, I would suggest that
the State doesn't treat them as equally severe. The
range of punishment for a class D felony, which both of
those crimes are, is all the way from zero to 3 years in
prison, and the actual conduct undoubtedly is a factor
in what the person's ultimate sentence will be.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it may well be that in
deciding whether to accept a plea bargain of being
guilty of (A) rather than going to trial on (B), if your
client has two violent felonies already on the book, you
might take -- take the plea bargain under (A) lest you
run afoul of the violent felony act.
MR. MARSH: Yes, Your Honor, that's, of
course, entirely possible. But, again, just as with the
categorical approach the court cannot take into account
the motives of prosecutors, I would suggest the motives
of defendants and defense lawyers can't be taken into
account, either. Further, I think it's more important
that when Indiana enacted this statute, it was not
thinking of ACCA and predicate crimes, I -- I assume. I
don't think the legislature takes those kind of things
into account.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose the legislature were
to repeal (b)(1)(B). Would the offense for which Mr.
Sykes was convicted then become an ACCA offense?
MR. MARSH: Your Honor, I -- that would be a
question that would have to be decided on the basis of
whether there's some basis to -- well, first of all,
determine whether it's violent and aggressive. And my
position would remain it's still not violent and
aggressive. But even on the second part of the Begay
approach, this Court has not seen anything that gives
you any basis for knowing what the risk of injury is.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand your
answer to that question. I would have thought that your
answer, if you're insisting on a categorical approach,
would be "no," that there's nothing in -- in (3) that
requires any violence at all. Just fleeing by visible
or audible means, just -- just flees. That's all it
says.
MR. MARSH: I'm sorry. I understood the
question to be that (A) is repealed and (B) is left in
place; was that -
JUSTICE ALITO: No, it's the opposite. If
the aggravated offense -- you rely on the aggravated
offense -
MR. MARSH: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- in large part as a basis
for your argument.
MR. MARSH: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: Your argument -- one of your
main arguments, as I understand it, is that -- what I'll
call the simple offense doesn't qualify under ACCA
because cases involving a serious risk of bodily injury
fall under the aggravated category. And my question is
whether a repeal of the aggravated offense would change
-- would then convert the simple offense from a non-ACCA
offense to an ACCA offense. Or you could ask it a
different way. If State 1 has the simple offense and
the aggravated offense, State 2 has just the simple
offense, is the simple offense an ACCA offense in one
State and not in the other State even though the
elements are exactly the same?
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a good question.
MR. MARSH: Your Honor, the equation would
be different because of the significance of the (B)
offense. So that's not exactly our case. But I will
adopt Justice Scalia's answer, which I think is exactly
right. I -- it still would not be something that's
violent or aggressive.
JUSTICE ALITO: But you're -- you're
answering my question by making a totally different
argument. Insofar as you're relying on the aggravated
offense, the presence of the aggravated offense, I would
appreciate an answer to it.
MR. MARSH: Justice Alito, the -
JUSTICE ALITO: In other words, you're
saying -- maybe I haven't made myself clear. You're --
Justice Scalia's answer, which you have adopted, is that
if you look at (A) by itself, forget about the
aggravated offense completely; it doesn't qualify under
ACCA. And that's -- that's one argument.
But your -- your other argument is that (A),
the simple offense, doesn't qualify because of the
presence of (B). And I'm trying to see whether that
makes sense.
MR. MARSH: Yes, Justice Alito, I think it
breaks down to the two parts of the Begay test. In
order to be a violent felony, it has to be similar in
kind and similar in degree of risk.
The existence of (B) makes clear that the
degree of risk for violating (A) is not the same,
because if you accept the continuum of behavior as
created by the Indiana General Assembly, the person
who's convicted of (A) has not created a substantial
risk of bodily injury. It's -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, have you done
or looked at -- not every burglary has a risk of harm to
another or results in harm to another. The general
definition of burglary is entering without permission
and intent to commit a crime, and generically the crime
doesn't have to be physical injury to others.
MR. MARSH: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yet, ACCA defines
burglary as a qualifying crime of violence. It's
measuring risk, not by the elements of that crime, but
by something else, by some measure of incidents in which
violence might occur.
So how is that different than the
Government's argument here and the question that Justice
Breyer asked you, which was: It is true, potentially
there's some forms of fleeing that might not pose a risk
of injury, but statistically there's a large number of
incidents in which violence follows.
So, how is that different than burglary?
That's really my question. What -- it can't be that the
elements have to pose a risk of injury, because burglary
doesn't do that. So, what -- how do we measure it?
MR. MARSH: Your Honor, the inquiry, as the
Court said in James, is whether the conduct encompassed
by the elements of the offense presents the risk. And
that's the -- the determination that the court has to
consider.
It's not -- it is not necessary, and I'm not
contending, that this crime is a violent felony only if
every conceivable violation of the statute constitutes a
risk of danger. That -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if you're not doing
that, that's my question: Where do we draw the line?
MR. MARSH: You draw it -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Where do we draw the
line?
MR. MARSH: You draw the line -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think that was what
Justice Breyer was trying to ask you earlier, which is:
When do we say that, as in burglary, that some risk is
more likely to follow than not in a particular type of
crime?
MR. MARSH: Well, the line is defined by the
statute: Serious potential risk of physical injury to
another.
Now, how do you make that determination?
Well, the Court made clear in Chambers that empirical
data is one way to do it. There isn't any here because
of all the empirical data presented by the Government.
It relates to vehicular fleeing as if there was one
crime of vehicular fleeing, and most of it is -- is
calculated based on death or injury, and that, of
course, is not the category that we have here. If -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose that if we agreed
with you that whether it is a violent crime depends upon
what other prosecutions for fleeing could have been
brought. If we agree with you that (1)(A) is negligible
because there are other bigger ones for which he wasn't
charged, we could leave open the question of what -
what happens in a State that has only one crime for
fleeing, and we would -- then we would have to confront
the question that Justice Sotomayor has asked.
But if we accept your notion that -- where
you have a gradation that is adopted by the State, the
lowest gradation cannot be determined to have a high
percentage of bodily risk, right?
MR. MARSH: Yes, that's correct, Justice
Scalia.
JUSTICE BREYER: My problem is there is
arguably not here a gradation.
Suppose it only had (A). If it only had
(A), for me -- I'm not saying for you -- this wouldn't
be a tough case. That is to say, I can't imagine a
person running away from a police in a car where there
isn't a real risk to other people. He's speeding, you
know. I would think -- I don't see how you get away
from the policeman unless you speed, and there are going
to be pedestrians. Who knows? But I think that was
pretty -- at least as bad -- at least as much of a risk
as burglary. So that would be the end of the case. It
would be simple. At least assume that.
Now, then, however, suppose we have a State
which says: But it's a worse thing to run away and
create a risk. In a separate provision. It's a worse
thing. All right? Then I'd say, huh, now I'm not so
sure. Why didn't they charge the worse thing? This
must be reserved for cases where it isn't.
So here we have a rather weird situation.
They're saying it's a different thing but not a worse
thing. So now I say: Well, why didn't they charge --
Huh? Now I don't know. I don't know why they didn't
charge the separate special one. I don't know what the
facts are. I'm puzzled.
Now, that's your case. That's where I
needed the enlightenment. So, what's the enlightenment?
MR. MARSH: Your Honor, it's not a weird
situation, because the Indiana definition of the crime
of vehicular fleeing is not one all-encompassing crime.
It's -- they took the all-encompassing generic vehicular
fleeing and divided it into five subparts, which I
suggest makes it much easier to resolve the (b)(1)(A)
question.
If there is no other categories, that would
be Justice Scalia's point, I think, and then it would be
a much harder question. And it may very well be that it
would be considered a violent felony. For one thing -
JUSTICE ALITO: But isn't it still -- isn't
it still an empirical question? If we were to look at
all of the cases that are prosecuted under what I'll
call the simple offense, we might discover that those
are all cases in which there is no serious potential
risk of physical injury created because all of the risky
cases are prosecuted under the aggravated label.
We might also find that there are still a
great many cases that involve a serious potential risk
that are prosecuted under the simple category. So the
fact that there's a gradation doesn't allow us to escape
the empirical issue, does it?
MR. MARSH: No, I think you're exactly
right, Justice Alito. That would be possible.
Empirical data could show what you have just suggested.
Of course, that would be indicating that the Indiana
General Assembly didn't have any rational basis for
dividing the two, but the important thing here is -
JUSTICE ALITO: I wouldn't say that they
didn't have a rational basis for dividing it. It would
just show a pattern of prosecution and -- and plea
bargaining. That's what it would show.
MR. MARSH: But the important thing here,
Your Honor, is there simply is no such data before this
Court. There -- there is no empirical data regarding
(b)(1)(A).
JUSTICE ALITO: There never is really
reliable empirical data, almost never, for any of the
issues that have to be decided under the -- the
catch-all, the residual clause, of ACCA. It has to be
based on basically common sense and experience, doesn't
it?
MR. MARSH: Your Honor, I suggest that
common sense and experience is not a reliable,
predictable way of deciding these cases. You're right,
there frequently is not empirical data. If there's not
either empirical data that demonstrates the danger
involved or a crime that -- where the danger is pretty
obvious so that there would be widespread general
agreement -- common sense is what has led to a lot of
the conflicts in the circuits, I would suggest.
May I reserve my time, Your Honor?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Marsh.
Mr. Wall.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY B. WALL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Just a very quick moment of history, I
think, provides some useful background, and I'm on
page 3a of the appendix to the Government's brief.
Until 1998, subsection (B), which we've been talking
about, was the only class D felony that involved
vehicular flight in Indiana law. In 1998, the Indiana
General Assembly broke out and enacted subsection (A) so
that in cases of vehicular flight prosecutors would not
have to prove risk; they would just have to prove that
defendant used a vehicle.
Since 1998, I have found 14 cases in the
Indiana Court of Appeals, one of which is the Hape case
that Justice Alito cited earlier. All of them, so far
as I can tell, proceeded under (A) and not under (B).
Of those 14 cases, 13 have enough facts to tell what the
flight was -- of what kind; 10 involved speeding,
disregarding traffic laws, or striking an officer with a
vehicle. Of the other three, only one involved
non-risky behavior, and even that was not a defendant
who drove a short distance and then pulled over. It was
a -
JUSTICE SCALIA: These were all litigated
cases?
MR. WALL: Yes, Justice Scalia, these were
all litigated to conviction and taken up on appeal, and
the Indiana Court of Appeals addressed various legal
issues -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that's not
-- 14 isn't very many. And I assume the vast majority
of these cases aren't litigated.
MR. WALL: I think that's right, Mr. Chief
Justice. The Government's point is that here we have
extensive data, both empirical and otherwise, that
indicates that flight as a basic offense is very
dangerous. In -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I read your
brief, and I was -- I read your brief and was surprised
that when you're -- the list -- one of the things you
talk about to show that is media reports. You usually
have a more concrete basis for -- for speculation than
media reports.
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, if that is all
we had put forward, I might agree with you, but we also
put forward extensive statistical data.
My point is just that Indiana is typical.
It's dangerous everywhere else. It's four times as
dangerous as arson. It's more dangerous than household
burglary. There's nothing different about Indiana. If
one looks through these cases, these flights in Indiana
are typically quite dangerous.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose you have a State
that has a separate crime for trespassing, criminal
trespass. And you're saying that if -- if you could
show that a large number of cases that were brought
under criminal trespass in fact could have been
prosecuted under burglary, then criminal trespass would
qualify as a -- as a violent felony. That doesn't seem
-- that doesn't seem to me right.
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, I thought -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just because prosecutors
make that choice, that doesn't establish that the
elements of the crime, which is what we focus on in
deciding whether it's a violent felony, fill the bill.
MR. WALL: That's right. This Court looks
at the conduct encompassed by the elements in a typical
case. And in a typical case of vehicular flight, what
we have, according to the data, is someone fleeing
police at an average of 25 miles an hour over the speed
limit; someone who is, in a typical case, young, male,
unlicensed, under the influence of alcohol; and who
places the lives of other motorists, pedestrians, and
police in harm's way.
Your approach to ACCA, Justice Scalia, has
been to look at the conduct encompassed by the elements
and ask whether the risk from that conduct is at least
as great as the -- the least risky enumerated offense.
And here -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That ignores the in-kind
requirement of Begay, because you seem to be confusing
the risk of violence with the in-kind inquiry, and
that's where I'm trying -- I'd like you to concentrate a
little bit on, which is in burglary the defendant is
breaking into, generally, a place and going without
permission, and -- with an intent to commit a crime.
How is that comparable to merely not
stopping when a police officer tells you not to stop?
How is that an in-kind -
MR. WALL: Justice Sotomayor, it's
absolutely true, there are two parts to the test, and
we've been talking about the first risk. On the second
prong, the purposeful, violent, or aggressive character
of the conduct -- here I think there are three distinct
things that make it purposeful, violent, and aggressive.
First, you have the defiance of the
officer's order, which can cause injury at the scene.
It has in some Indiana cases, but at least called the
officer to give chase.
Second, you have the very real prospect -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What you're doing is
saying I'm not -- you're not even saying I'm not
stopping; you're just driving away.
MR. WALL: Well, yes, but you are driving -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, how is that
aggressive -
MR. WALL: You're driving away in response
to an officer's command to stop. You're calling the
officer to give chase. You're -- you're -- pursuit is
likely. And even when there isn't pursuit, these
offenders drive typically very recklessly, and then
you've got the confrontation when the officers have
to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's the risk
of -
MR. WALL: -- terminate.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That -- that is all the
risk question, and you're confusing the police actions
with the defendant's, because you're talking about the
defendant responding to a police pursuit. So what -
what is in the act of the crime that makes it in-kind to
burglary?
MR. WALL: So, let me analogize -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I concentrate on
burglary because the others don't fit.
MR. WALL: No, let me concentrate on
burglary, then, and analogize it to what this Court said
in James. It said the risk of attempted burglary -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: James -- James predated
Begay. So you've got -
MR. WALL: That's right, but I -- the Court
has talked about -- even in Chambers, about the risk of
a violent confrontation with law enforcement officials,
and it's done that under the Begay part of the test.
And whereas that confrontation is only possible with
burglary, it's necessary with this crime. It requires
that an officer order you to stop and that you flee.
So that -- that confrontation, which is only
a possibility with burglary or attempted burglary, is
elevated to a certainty with this offense.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Wall, wouldn't
that suggest that if I just ran from a police officer,
it would be a violent felony under ACCA?
MR. WALL: I think it -- it would suggest
that, Justice Kagan, but I think flight on foot is
unlikely to satisfy the risk part of the test. I think
certainly this case is much easier on the -- the James
part of this test. I think the -- the flight in a
vehicle poses risks, very real risks, to other motorists
and pedestrians and police that flight on foot doesn't
pose, although you'd still have the confrontation when
the flight on foot was terminated. So I think some of
the arguments would translate. You're right. I think
there would be more difficult questions, though, on the
risk prong. This is a much easier case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do -- do words mean
nothing? I mean, we're talking about a violent felony.
That's what the Federal law requires. And -- and you
want us to hold that failing to stop when a police
officer tells you to stop is a violent felony. That -
that seems to me a -- a big leap. I mean, words have
some meaning, and Congress focused on violent felonies.
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, words do have
meaning, but the words here are very broad: "serious
potential risk of physical injury to others." And as
you yourself have recognized in -- in multiple opinions,
what those words call for is a comparison of risk
between an offense and ACCA's enumerated crimes.
This offense, simply put, is more risky.
It's four times as risky as arson in terms of injuries
and fatalities.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, one of the -
MR. WALL: It's more risky than household
burglary.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Another word is
"aggressive" in Begay, and that's where I have a little
difficulty with your argument. It seems to me, this is
the exact opposite of aggressive. He's running away.
Certainly, the other option is to turn and confront, and
he doesn't want to. There's nothing aggressive about
running away.
MR. WALL: Well, there is, Mr. Chief
Justice, when you're doing it in a vehicle, and
typically at high speeds. So, in Chambers -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's the
risk of violence, I understand that, and purposeful,
which I guess everything is. But those are the three
words: "purposeful, violent, and aggressive." I'll
give you purposeful, I'll give you violent, but
aggressive?
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, if you give me
those two, I think we're home free, because this Court
said -
(Laughter.)
MR. WALL: -- in Chambers -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think you're
two-thirds of the way home free.
(Laughter.)
MR. WALL: I'll take it, and let's work on
the last third. So the -- what this Court said in
Chambers is not all attempts to evade authorities are of
the same stripe. So, it contrasted escape from prison
with failure to report. Failure to report, you could do
at home on your couch; you could just fail to show up.
And the Court said: Look, that's passive; it's a crime
of inaction.
This is not that. It's not sitting at home
on one's couch. This is quintessentially a crime of
action.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There's a
difference. The opposite of passive is active. It's
not aggressive.
MR. WALL: Well, but -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is active.
He's running away, but -
MR. WALL: I think -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's the
aggression?
MR. WALL: But it's very -- it's hard to see
what the difference would be between this and escape
from custody. And this Court clearly indicated in -- in
Chambers that escape from custody was different from
failure to report under the statute in front of it. And
I think this is as dangerous, maybe even more dangerous
than escape from custody.
If the Court were going to say that all
running away could not be aggressive within the meaning
of that word for Begay purposes, so too escape from a
maximum security Federal prison, which in some sense is
just running away, but it is extremely aggressive, and
it's extremely risky to others.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Wall, do you think that
speeding or drag racing qualifies under your
understanding of the test?
MR. WALL: Justice Kagan, that's a difficult
question. I don't know that I've seen any attempt to
fit that offense in under the ACCA. I think that drag
racing, where you're talking about speeds of 150, 160,
170 miles an hour, might qualify, but I haven't seen any
cases like that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about speeding, just
-- you know, you're going 15 miles over the speed limit?
MR. WALL: I -- again, I -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that a violent felony?
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, I think then we'd
have a serious question about the first part of the
analysis and the -- the risk test. I mean, 10, 15 miles
over -- I mean, speeding as a generic offense is likely
to -- I mean, it encompasses categorically all speeding
offenses, many of which are, you know, not that -- not
likely to pose a serious risk to others. So I -- I -
we'd have to look at the -- the data. What we do have
here is data that says this offense is four times as
risky as the enumerated offense of arson. So I -- I -
speeding would be a difficult case. So far as I know,
we -- the Government's never tried to make the case.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is speeding a felony?
MR. WALL: Not as far as I know, not the
basic offense. Now, whether in a Begay-type sense you
might have some recidivism enhancement under State law
that would get you there, I don't know. But I -- again,
I haven't seen any case that involved that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Am I right about -- when
you replied to Justice Scalia, I thought that he had
said that we were dealing with a statute, and you seemed
to agree, that said it is a crime to flee a policeman
after being ordered to stop. But I thought we were
dealing with a statute that says it is a crime to flee a
policeman after being ordered to stop, in a vehicle.
MR. WALL: That's right. That's right.
That's the offense here.
JUSTICE BREYER: And so you're -- okay.
MR. WALL: It's the vehicular flight
offense. And one -- you know, I will take one issue
with -- with -- you know, what my friend on the other
side has said, which is (A) and (B) are not tiered.
They're not greater and lesser offenses under State law.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Wall, suppose they
were. I understand your point that they're not, and you
might be right about that. But let's suppose that they
were. Let's suppose you had a three-tier set-up. One
was simple flight; one was flight that causes risk of
injury; one that is a flight that causes injury. And
let's even say that the simple flight -- no, let's -
let's call them all felonies but different classes of
felonies.
What would happen in that case? Would you
still be here saying that the simple flight felony is a
violent crime?
MR. WALL: Yes. It's a tougher case, but we
would be here saying that, because when you're looking
at an offense categorically -- for instance, arson -
you've got to look at all fires, all intentionally set
fires, the ones that don't hurt anybody, the ones that
do, and the ones that kill people, even though the fires
that kill people will be prosecutable in most
jurisdictions as a greater offense, like felony murder.
And so when you're looking at it categorically, you've
got to look at all of the conduct in that category, even
conduct that may be prosecutable under some greater
offense.
I think, you know, the other side sort of
relies on this assumption that all conduct which might
satisfy the greater will necessarily be prosecuted under
the greater. And as a legal matter, it's included
within the lesser, and as a factual matter, it's just
not true that it always gets prosecuted under that
greater offense.
So it's -- it would be a tougher case. It
would make our case more difficult, but I think legally
and factually the Government's answer would be the same.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I -- I asked my clerk to
just do a survey of the States, and he came up with -
and I'm sure that this is rough -- but that 46 of the
States have these tiered systems. Now, there may be
some questions as to some of them, like you've raised
some questions about Indiana's, but that 46 States
essentially conceive of this as two different kinds of
conduct, one which is the violent kind and the other
which is the not violent crime.
MR. WALL: Well, my State law research is a
little different from your clerk's. I've got 37 States
and D.C. But the -- the point is that under the nested
statutes, the aggravator isn't always like this one,
risk. Sometimes it's, as in Indiana, injury or death.
And where you're talking about actual injury or death,
those aggravators far outstrip the level of potential
risk that ACCA requires.
So I don't think in those States Petitioner
would give an argument that those aggravators would
affect at all the analysis of the basic offense. There
are a handful of States that, unlike Indiana, have as an
aggravator risk, though even some of those States treat
the basic offense as a felony, which is I think a
judgment by the State that, even in the basic case, this
is risky conduct, deserving of severe punishment under
State law. So, you know, there are nested statutes,
but -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not necessarily risky.
Conduct that shows disrespect for the law.
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, I mean I -
again, I think it is significant that in 1998 the
General Assembly broke this out as a separate subsection
and said: We're not even going to require prosecutors
to prove risk. I think that represents a judgment by
the State that the conduct is risky on a typical basis:
We just want the State to prove you used a vehicle.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or even if it isn't risky,
you should not thumb your nose at the police when they
tell you to stop.
MR. WALL: Well, that's right, and the
reason -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Risky or not.
MR. WALL: The reason you shouldn't, Justice
Scalia, is because that's the kind of purposeful,
violent, and aggressive conduct the State wants to deter
by treating it as a felony. But I -- I mean, I -
whether one looks at the risk prong and the data and the
cases in Indiana or elsewhere, or whether one looks at
the character of the conduct, this offense is just
different in both degree and kind from the offenses that
this Court has said fall outside of ACCA's residual
clause.
It's much more like escape from custody.
It's much more like the enumerated offenses. Indeed,
the risk of confrontation is certain. I mean, I -- it's
important, I think, that -- I mean, I -- these flights
are not calm affairs. They're dangerous events. The
average speed that the offender is traveling nationwide
is 25 miles an hour over the speed limit. This is
someone who on average is young, unlicensed, influenced
by alcohol -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought there was
-- I don't know where -- I don't remember where it was
from. I thought there was a development of best police
practices that you don't just chase people. You know,
if they're going 30 miles an hour over the speed limit
through a school zone, that doesn't mean the police
officer should do that. You know, you call ahead, they
put these strips on the road, whatever.
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, that's right.
I think police agencies have been struggling with this
question, which is why there's a lot of data on police
pursuits, frankly, especially in the last 10 or 15
years. I think some of them are becoming more
restrictive, and so the data picks up pursuits. It
doesn't pick up all flights. And I think if there were
sound evidence that when people were not pursued, they
were actually driving at low speeds and safely, that
would affect the data, though not so much that it would
move it outside of similarity to the enumerated
offenses.
But I think the -- the data is pretty good
in indicating that the typical flight is -- really does
pose a serious potential risk of physical injury to
others, a risk that materializes more often than with
other crimes that Congress clearly intended to fall
within the ACCA.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could I ask you this: If a
person is convicted of vehicular flight that causes
death, is that aggressive conduct?
MR. WALL: Yes, the Government would say it
is, Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is the conduct there any
different from the conduct when death doesn't result?
MR. WALL: No, Justice Alito. The
Government's answer is that categorically the behavior
is aggressive and that in some cases it will result in
injury or death and in some it will not, but in all
cases it carries that potential.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Doesn't whether it's
aggressive or not depend upon how it happened? I mean,
it could be -- I mean, the flight puts in place the
potential for -- for violence, I agree with that; but if
somebody just, you know, jumps out between two cars
while the fellow's fleeing, how has his conduct changed
to aggressive?
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not like he -
it's not like he's aiming for the guy. I mean, it's
putting it in a dangerous situation. It's purposeful.
Again, I'll give you violent in the sense that it has
that potential. But he didn't want to hit the -- the
person.
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not aggression
against the person.
MR. WALL: There's no question that, on a
case by case basis, you could flee in a way that was not
very risky, that was not very violent, or not very
aggressive. And if this Court went on a case-by-case
basis, then we'd look at the conduct here, and the
Government would still win, because this is the typical
case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But he's saying even when
it's risky, it's not aggressive.
MR. WALL: And I -- my -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can be risky and not
aggressive, can't you?
MR. WALL: Yes, on a case-by-case basis.
But, categorically, which is what this Court looks at,
the conduct encompassed by the elements in the ordinary
case -- in the ordinary case -- the character of the
conduct is aggressive.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Who's he aggressing
against? When someone sees the police and says I'm
getting out of here and drives down the highway, say, at
80 miles an hour, you know, 25 miles above the speed
limit, who is he -- I'm sure it's not the right verb,
but who is he aggressing against?
MR. WALL: Well, I don't know that he is
aggressing against anyone, in the same way that if I
recklessly I fire a gun into a large crowd of people,
you know, I haven't aggressed against anyone in
particular. He's aggressed against anyone who strays
into his field of flight and who could be injured by
what is typically a high-speed flight and pursuit. So I
don't -- there is no specific target, but that will be
true of many of the crimes that are violent felonies,
that the -- the aggressive nature -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, no. It's not
that -
MR. WALL: -- of the conduct is directed
generally.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- there's no
specific target. There's no target. What this guy
hopes is that nobody gets in his way.
MR. WALL: Well, so, too, with the burglar,
who hopes that no one will come home; maybe even the
arsonist, who hopes no one is in the house; or the
extortionist, who hopes someone will pay, so he won't
have to use violence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But they're mentioned;
they're mentioned. They're mentioned, and you're trying
to get this in under the residual clause.
MR. WALL: That's right, Justice Scalia, a
residual clause that, as you yourself have recognized,
is extremely broadly worded. It -- it abstracts out as
the quality of the enumerated offenses that they create
a serious potential risk of physical injury to others.
And I can't find any metric along which flight doesn't
do that, whether one looks through the cases, media
reports, the statistical data, whatever one -- Indiana,
nationally -- whatever standard or metric one uses, this
is an extremely risky offense to others.
And I, you know -- so it's very difficult to
figure out what test, what interpretation of that
language would exclude this from -- from ACCA.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose you have one of 36
States which treat this -- treat the general offense as
a misdemeanor and then make it a felony if you put
somebody at risk. Just reading that statute, you'd
think those 36 States, when they have the general
offense, do something where the guy acted pretty
trivially; and where it's a felony, he actually put
somebody at risk, sped off -- wouldn't that be your
normal instinct in just guessing from the -- from the
language?
MR. WALL: Justice Breyer, the States -
JUSTICE BREYER: How are we supposed to
treat those, where there's a misdemeanor -
MR. WALL: The States -
JUSTICE BREYER: In your opinion, it's just
a misdemeanor, we also treat it the same way; say it's a
violent felony?
MR. WALL: The States treat it differently.
Some, as Indiana -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Then that's
actually my question. Are we supposed to, in this
Federal statute, try to track whether it's a
misdemeanor, what the language is? We're going to have
a nightmare of a Federal law for States to -- for judges
to figure this out. I mean, every little variation in
thousands and thousands of possible variations could
make a difference as to whether it's violent or not,
depending on data which no one will have.
MR. WALL: Justice Breyer, I don't think so.
If the Court were to affirm here, what that would mean
is that the offense of flight is a violent felony
insofar as you have a predicate conviction under a State
statute where it's been punishable by up to a year, and
so it could qualify for ACCA coverage.
Now, some State convictions will have been
treated as misdemeanors and won't be eligible for ACCA,
but to the extent a State treats it as a felony, it's
risky enough to satisfy the residual clause. Now, if
the Court treats (A) and (B) as what they are not, which
is greater or lesser, then, yes, I think there will be
problems with various State statutes, as Justice Kagan
pointed out, and this Court may have to clear it up down
the road.
But if it treats this basic offense as what
it is, not a greater or lesser, but alternative means of
proving a single offense that is risky, that would, I
think, take care of all flight cases going forward.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, on this question of
whether this statute is greater or lesser, it's greater
or lesser if you just understand (b)(1)(A) as confined
to vehicular flight. In other words, if one looks only
at vehicular flight, then (b)(1)(A) and (b)(1)(B) are
indeed greater or lesser offenses.
MR. WALL: Yes, Justice Kagan, if you're
looking only -- I take it you're looking only at the
vehicle prong of (B), but the test in Schmuck is whether
it's impossible to -- to commit the greater without
committing the lesser. It's not impossible to commit
(B), because it does have the two other prongs, and I
think -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, do you think that if I
flee in a vehicle, I could be prosecuted under both and
receive sentences under both?
MR. WALL: No, I don't think so, because I
think the -- there is no evidence -- no case in Indiana
that I'm aware of. There's no evidence that the General
Assembly intended these to be multiple punishments for a
single incident. They're alternative means of proving a
single offense. The State has always treated them that
way, so far as I can tell. I have not seen -- I've seen
prosecutions since 1998 that were all under (A). I
haven't seen anything that went under (A) and (B) and
tried to get multiple punishments -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Wait a minute.
MR. WALL: -- and I think that would be a
serious problem.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm a little confused by
what you said and what point you're making. You don't
think that (B) is a lesser included of (A)? Is that -
no, that (A) is a lesser included of (B)?
MR. WALL: Your Honor, the Government does
not think that (A) is a lesser included of (B).
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You can't commit (B)
without committing (A) first. (B) has just one
additional element, but all of the elements of (A) are
part of the elements of (B). So, how can it not be a
lesser included?
MR. WALL: Well, the element of (B) that's
different, Justice Sotomayor, is the "while committing
any offense described in subsection (a)." So you can be
resisting an officer or you can be obstructing the
service of process and you can endanger someone in
various ways, including with a vehicle, and you will
have violated (B), and you can be prosecuted for that,
and there are cases in Indiana like that. And you have
not -- you have not been fleeing in a vehicle from an
officer at any point, so you haven't violated (A).
So the existence of the other prong there -
that's what I was trying to get into with Justice
Kagan -- means that this is not a greater or lesser
under Schmuck.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But as a vehicular flight
only, it would be greater or lesser.
MR. WALL: If you divided up the prongs
under Schmuck, but I think the Schmuck -- what follows
logically from that test is that you look at the entire
offense and ask whether it's possible to commit it
without committing the lesser, and that test is not
satisfied here. I don't think you carve it up prong by
prong.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm -- this is greater or
lesser for purposes of what? Double jeopardy?
MR. WALL: No, it's greater or lesser for
purposes of Petitioner's argument that you should assume
that every risky flight gets prosecuted under (B), and
hence (A) is a non-risky offense. And that argument
fails for multiple reasons, one of which I was trying to
spin out. It's not even true that this is greater or
lesser.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I just don't follow that
argument. I mean, it -- it seems to me that, yes, you
could -- you could run afoul of (B) by committing an
offense under subsection little (a) in some other ways,
but if you run afoul of (B) by committing the offense
of -- of flight from a law enforcement officer, it seems
to me that that automatically includes (A).
MR. WALL: Well, except that there are two
alternative means of proving the same offense under
State law. They have the same State law penalties, so
the prosecutors can go under (A) or they can go under
(B). And as far as I can tell, for the last, say, 13
years, they've been going under -- they've been going
under (A).
So it's not -- Justice Scalia, it's not -
there are aggravators in this statute for injury or
death. They're the ones that are in (2) and (3), the
class C and class B felonies. But this is not a greater
or lesser. It's -- they're alternative means. I think
only if you got -- set that aside would you get to the
sort of Schmuck analysis that I was going through with
-- with Justice Kagan.
And I think one of the important things to
recognize about this offense is that, you know, in
the -- 50 percent of these offenders are ultimately
charged with a violation that's unrelated to their
flight, a serious felony unrelated to their flight.
And the reason I think that's important is
because what you will look -- the reason that they're
traveling at such high speeds, the reason they're
evading officers, the reason the typical case is not
someone just going a couple blocks and stopping, is
because they've got drugs in the car or guns, they have
parole violations or outstanding warrants. It is the
background against which I think you have to assess the
character of the -- of the conduct here. And whether
you're looking at it under risk or under the character
of the conduct, the Government submits that it easily
satisfies the residual clause.
If there are no further questions, thank
you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Wall.
Mr. Marsh, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM E. MARSH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MARSH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
I would suggest that it's helpful to start
to look at the in-kind part of the Begay test on a more
general level than we've been discussing.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you succinctly
tell me how this is any less purposeful, aggressive, or
violent than escape from custody? What's your best
answer to why this is just not identical to escape,
which is a fleeing-from situation just as this is.
MR. MARSH: Justice Sotomayor, the basic
distinction is that the person who's charged with
escape, assuming that escape means escape from a secure
institution or from a person, is that the person is in
custody, and it takes, in the ordinary case, aggression
and violence to get out of the custody of that person.
The person who is fleeing is trying to avoid being
taken.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, here an officer
has told you to stop. They're trying to effect custody.
And I don't know what the aggression or violence is,
other than, you know, breaking a window, doing
something. It doesn't require the escape -- that you
actually injure someone to get out. It's just that you
run away.
MR. MARSH: I think the phrase that you just
used is the distinction that I was referring to. The
person who is fleeing is trying to avoid being in
custody. They're acting in a -- instead of going toward
the officer and resisting, they're going away from the
officer. The person who is in custody has to use some
kind of force, and in Johnson, of course the -- this
Court referred to violent as the -
JUSTICE ALITO: That's not true. There are
a lot -- you can -- there are prison escapes all the
time where it's done through subterfuge.
MR. MARSH: That's -- that's true, Justice
Alito, but as the Court held in James, finding an
example of a case that would not be violent does not
solve the ordinary case. The ordinary case, I would
suggest, requires something more than that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's, for me,
anyway, an important question. I'll -- I'm not sure the
ordinary case does. I assume the ordinary prison escape
is -- I don't know -- over the wall, under the tunnel
or, you know, while the guard's looking a different way,
or some -- I don't know that it's typical that when the
guard is there, you say now's my chance. The typical
case doesn't involve aggression.
MR. MARSH: Of course, the ordinary case or
the typical case, Mr. Chief Justice, is that the court
needs to look at the conduct encompassed by the elements
of the statute, and so we would have to look at exactly
what the statute requires.
The circuit courts have been very divided on
escape. In my circuit, the Seventh Circuit, the Federal
statute, 751, has been held not to be -- which is a
general escape statute -- not to be a violent felony.
But, again, the Court talks about the ordinary case in
the James case for the purpose of disabusing the idea
that one can't get out from under the violent felony
designation just by coming up with a hypothetical case
or an example where it can be done without -- without
violence.
Here, I would suggest that counsel has just
created for the Court some kind of a hypothetical case
to define the typical or ordinary case. This Court has
never done that, and this Court said in James that it's
important to stick to the conduct encompassed by the
elements of the offense, because if we start factoring
in other kinds of conduct, as several of the things
which have been mentioned by counsel for the Government,
that begins to raise Apprendi problems, which is another
whole issue. But the Court said in James -- and I would
acknowledge is the law -- that so long as the
determination as to whether there's a serious potential
risk of physical injury is made by focusing on the
conduct encompassed by the elements of the offense, then
there's not an Apprendi problem.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
MR. MARSH: Thank you.
(Whereupon, at 10:58 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
54:2 37:16,25 amended 11:9 Armed 3:14 7:7 22:15 23:21
15:13 42:22 analysis 34:14 arsonist 43:12 46:14 47:2,9,10
16:21 aggressing 42:12 37:23 49:20 aside 49:19 47:12,13,14,16
18:22 42:17,19 answer 5:14 8:23 asked 19:4 21:1 47:18,24 48:20
27:17 aggression 33:10 11:20 16:3,4 37:4 49:2,4,11,17
34:4 41:18 51:8,14 17:11,18,22 Assembly 11:8 background
40:15 52:17 37:3 40:24 51:2 14:4 18:12 24:21 50:9
45:14,16 aggressive 12:19 answering 17:15 23:12 25:1 bad 21:18
13:21 15:22,24 36:11 assess 50:9 15:1,4
21:2 28:23 31:18,20 apparently 10:25 assume 4:8 based 12:6 20:16
33:4,19,22 appeal 25:19 25:23 48:19 basic 26:3 35:1
41:4,9,23 42:3 6:12,16 7:18 assuming 51:6 45:24 51:4
50:25 APPEARANC... 36:20 basis 12:23
35:8 41:6 applied 8:21 30:6 26:9 38:13
alcohol 27:14 53:22 49:6 27:23 29:22
16:19 17:14,19 2:2,5,8 3:3,7,10 a.m 1:13 3:2 54:1 2:4,7,10 3:11
23:9,14 14:17 16:17,19 B behavior 3:20
25:7 17:16,25 18:1 b 1:17 2:6 4:2,2 18:11 25:13
40:16,20 19:3 24:16 10:14,17,24 40:24
52:2,6 31:19 37:22 11:9 12:15,16 believe 8:10
arguments 16:20 13:24 15:2,17 51:1
9:21 10:20 cars 41:7 cause 28:14 classed 13:25 38:23 39:2
16:22 carve 48:14 causes 4:3,5,6 14:14 40:18,21,22
21:5 case 3:4,17 5:4,5 35:24,25 40:17 classes 36:2 41:8,24 42:9,11
11:6,7 12:10 30:14 31:21 39:5 43:17,19 53:21
10:12 25:6 27:10,10 29:24 32:1,12 18:9 20:11 confront 20:25
11:2 27:13 30:14,22 32:18 33:14 45:22 31:21
34:22,23 35:4 chance 52:16 clearly 33:13 confrontation
20:3 21:8 36:4,7 37:1,2 change 16:24 40:14 13:12 29:4,25
44:6,16 38:2 41:21,21 changed 41:8 clerk 37:4 30:2,5,18 39:8
42:1,10,10 character 28:10 clerk's 37:14 confused 47:7
46:20 50:5 51:8 39:2 42:10 client 6:21 15:3 confusing 27:23
24:22 26:6 52:18,19 53:2,3 charge 6:20 10:5 comes 13:7 Congress 31:4
53:5,9,10,24 10:23 21:25 coming 53:5 40:14
24:5 25:2,5,9 charging 10:24 committing constitutes 19:19
19:8 34:7 39:1 40:25 Chief 3:3,12 5:11 common 24:1,4 18:11
20:4 41:2 43:24 46:2 5:13 24:13,18 24:10 contrasted 32:19
26:17,25 47:25 25:22,25 26:5 commonsense convert 16:25
29:14,17 case-by-case 26:11 31:14,17 4:21 convicted 3:22
30:3,6 41:23 42:7 31:24 32:2,8,13 comparable 28:4 6:21 7:5 8:8,10
31:16 catch-all 23:25 33:2,6,9 39:15 comparison 31:9 11:3 15:18
36:2 39:21 36:9,15 40:24 choice 27:5 27:25 29:16,18 45:15
categories 3:19 52:23,24,24 conduct 4:12,15 couch 32:21,25
53:8,15 15:13 31:10 defendants 34:2,22 37:2 effect 51:13
40:14 43:1 15:10 44:3 either 4:2 15:11
9:17 10:7 crowd 42:20 defense 15:10 disabusing 53:3 element 5:8 12:2
15:7 20:17 custody 33:13,14 defiance 28:13 discover 22:24 13:18 14:13
51:25 33:17 39:6 51:1 define 12:22 discussing 50:23 47:15,18
51:8,9,13,22 53:10 disregarding elements 4:13
5:4,6,6 defines 18:22 disrespect 38:7 17:6 18:24
6:12 D definition 12:19 distance 25:14 19:10,14 27:6,9
7:11,18 D 3:1 10:14,18 12:24 18:18 distinct 28:11 27:18 42:9
15:8 13:25 14:21 22:11 distinction 14:1,7 47:15,16 52:20
19:13,15 24:24 degree 18:8,10 51:5,20 53:13,21
23:20 danger 19:20 39:3 divided 3:18 elevated 30:7
25:6,20 24:7,8 demonstrates 22:14 48:9 eligible 45:16
29:19,23 dangerous 26:4 24:7 52:23 empirical 20:11
26:15,16,16,19 Department 1:18 dividing 23:13,15 20:13 22:22
39:4 33:16,16 39:10 depend 41:4 doing 9:11 19:21 23:7,10,20,23
42:8 41:13 depending 45:8 28:18 31:25 24:6,7 26:2
data 20:12,13 depends 20:19 51:15 enacted 15:12
53:2 23:10,19,20,23 described 47:20 dominate 13:3 25:1
24:6,7 26:2,13 deserving 38:3 Double 48:17 enacting 14:5
45:8 19:15 20:10 drawn 14:7 52:20 53:12,21
23:1 dead 5:19 determine 7:11 drives 42:14 34:16
deal 9:3 11:11 15:22 driving 12:5 endanger 47:22
8:4 10:20 death 3:23 4:6 development 40:6 13:5,13 29:25
12:16 49:16 10:25 12:8 33:3 drugs 50:7 11:25 12:1,10
decide 11:18 33:12 45:7 D.C 1:8,18 37:15 35:2
20:6,15 decided 13:20 different 17:2,9 enhancements
22:11 14:4 15:20 17:15 19:2,8 E 12:4,13
24:8 23:24 22:3 26:17 E 1:15 2:1,3,9 3:1 enhances 3:14
27:6 28:3 deciding 15:1 33:14 36:2 3:1,10 50:18 enlightenment
30:3 24:5 27:7 37:10,14 39:3 earlier 20:3 25:7 22:9,9
35:8 defendant 4:23 40:22 47:19 easier 22:15 entering 18:18
36:6 6:13 8:2 10:3 52:14 30:14,22 entire 48:11
25:4,13 28:1 differently 44:23 easily 11:12 entirely 12:15
extent 45:17 44:8,12,22 40:4 getting 42:14
31:10 43:13 53:1,4 focused 31:4 give 4:19 12:20
39:7 40:8 extremely 33:22 field 42:23 focusing 53:20 28:16 29:1 32:6
33:23 43:20 fight 13:6 follow 4:24 20:5 32:6,8 37:22
33:12,14 fact 7:4,14 9:24 43:23 follows 19:7 goes 5:9
39:6 23:6 26:24 finding 52:6 48:10 going 13:8 15:2
factor 14:23 fire 42:20 foot 30:12,17,19 21:16 28:2
53:1 factoring 53:13 firearm 3:15 force 51:25 33:18 34:9
factual 36:23 12:25 13:2,9 forms 19:5 49:12,20 50:6
fail 32:21 34:13 47:14 46:2 good 12:12 17:7
familiar 7:17 6:9,9 14:5 16:6 frequently 24:6 24:22 26:1
49:11 22:14 27:11 further 15:11 gradation 21:3,4
Federal 30:25 51:21 grade 9:15,17
17:6,10,11 52:24 51:3 G 3:1 great 23:4 27:20
52:21 fellow's 41:8 flees 13:11 16:7 general 1:18 greater 6:20
53:6 31:4 36:2,3 25:2,10 26:3 14:4 18:12,17 36:21,22,25
13:15,23 14:1 36:1,5 40:11,17 53:1 49:17
18:7 19:18 43:23 45:11 12:13 28:2 43:6 guard's 52:14
27:1,7 30:10,24 48:20 49:5 50:1 34:15 guessing 44:14
36:5,14 38:1,24 flights 26:18 39:9 18:19 gun 42:20
house 43:12 1:15 involves 3:17 19:21,24 20:2,3
53:5,9 individual 8:8,15 23:7 35:16 26:11,20 27:3,4
implicated 12:9 9:21 10:20 19:13 29:20,21 34:8,11,12,24
50:4 incident 46:23 49:15 53:20 judges 45:4 43:7,15,18 44:6
included 14:13 insisting 16:4 jumps 41:7 46:16 47:4,7,13
43:11 3:18,19,24 5:5 intended 13:3 5:11,13,18,23
9:17 6:16 7:18 9:16 intent 4:25 18:19 7:1,4,17,21,23 Kagan 13:14,22
12:3,21,24 9:18 11:8,22,25 28:3 8:10,17 9:10,14 14:9,12 30:8,12
14:3,19 12:14 13:10 intentionally 5:8 9:18,22 10:8,12 33:24 34:2
17:8 14:4 15:12 36:10 10:17,22 11:2 35:20 37:4
22:10 18:12 22:11 interpretation 11:11,17,20,24 45:21 46:3,9,16
24:3,12 23:11 24:25,25 44:4 12:7,13,18,22 48:5,7 49:21
25:6,20 26:14 interrupt 5:14 13:14,22 14:8,9 Kennedy 4:18
37:17,24 39:1 9:25 23:4 52:17 16:2,12,16,19 kill 36:12,13
25:10 leap 31:3 5:14,15 7:13 materializes 30:16
38:22 leave 20:23 8:17 9:23 10:22 40:13 move 40:8
51:25 53:9 led 24:10 36:8,15 46:10 matter 1:11 11:6 multiple 31:8
legal 25:20 36:22 52:14 maximum 33:21 48:22
10:4 legislation 14:5 27:8 38:25 39:1 6:9 9:2 10:25
legislature 15:14 42:8 43:24 46:6 30:23,24 31:3 N
21:15 15:16 lot 9:3 24:10 34:14,15,16 N 2:1,1 3:1
34:3,9 lesser 14:12 39:25 52:3 38:8,24 39:8,9 nationally 44:1
35:19 36:23 low 3:21 40:6 39:20 41:4,5,12 nationwide 39:11
45:20,25 46:4,5 lowest 21:4 45:5,10 49:1 nature 43:2
38:4 46:8,13 47:9,10 meaning 31:4,6 necessarily
47:12,17 48:5,8 M 33:19 36:21 38:6
42:15,18 48:13,17,18,24 main 16:20 means 8:18 16:7 necessary 7:7
44:3 49:18 majority 9:24 45:25 46:23 19:17 30:3
51:14,15 lest 15:4 25:23 48:5 49:8,18 need 10:13
let's 32:16 35:22 making 17:15 51:6 needed 22:9
level 37:19 50:23 male 27:13 19:11 negligible 20:21
line 6:1 19:22,25 MARCUS 1:3 43:24 never 23:22,23
Marsh 1:15 2:3,9 mens 5:8 34:23 53:11
13:4 44:5 45:5 47:7 49:3 10:7,11,16,21 middle 6:3 nose 38:16
45:3 lives 27:15 11:2,16,19,23 miles 8:2 27:12 notion 21:2
42:20 long 53:18 13:14,17 14:3 39:19 42:15,15 number 12:3
32:11,15 10:12,14,17 15:19 16:9,15 minutes 50:17
22:22 misdemeanor
29:25 27:18 32:22 18:5,21 19:12 44:8,18,21 45:3 O 2:1 3:1
35:2,19 34:19 36:10,16 19:23 20:1,7 misdemeanors obligation 6:20
38:4,7 41:24 48:11 21:6 22:10 23:8 45:16 6:25
49:5,9,9 50:3,22 52:20 23:18 24:3,14 moment 24:20 obstructing
52:21 50:17,18,20 morning 3:4 47:21
one's 8:24,25 36:12,13 39:18 30:9,17 31:1 problem 6:18
open 20:23 percent 49:24 39:24,25 42:13 problems 45:21
7:5,14,14 opinion 9:8 13:1 permission 18:18 35:8,11 proceed 9:23
8:11 11:3 44:20 28:3 pose 19:5,10 proceeded 25:8
opinions 31:8 person 3:16 13:7 30:18 34:18 process 47:22
16:13 opposite 16:12 13:11 18:12 40:12 prong 28:10
31:20 33:3 21:13 40:17 poses 30:16 30:22 38:25
option 31:21 41:16,19 51:5,7 position 4:11 46:11 48:3,14
oral 1:11 2:2,5 51:7,9,10,21 6:13 15:23 48:15
18:2 3:10 24:16 51:24 possession 3:15 prongs 46:14
22:24 order 18:7 28:14 person's 14:24 possibility 30:6 48:9
27:20 30:7 30:4 Petitioner 1:4,16 possible 12:7,15 prosecutable
34:4 ordered 35:9,11 2:4,10 3:11 15:7 23:9 30:2 36:13,17
ordinary 42:9,10 37:21 50:19 45:6 48:12 prosecuted
36:9 51:8 52:8,8,12 Petitioner's potential 7:12 22:23 23:2,5
52:12,18 53:2 48:19 8:5 20:8 22:25 26:25 36:21,24
38:1 39:2 53:10 phrase 51:19 23:4 31:7 37:19 46:17 47:24
45:11 outside 39:4 40:8 physical 7:12 40:12 41:2,6,15 48:20
46:1,24 outstanding 50:8 8:23 9:6 10:1 43:22 53:19 prosecution 6:19
48:12,21 outstrip 37:19 11:14 18:20 potentially 19:4 23:16
20:8 23:1 31:7 practices 39:18 prosecutions
P 40:12 43:22 precisely 6:16 20:20 47:1
34:17 page 2:2 24:22 pick 40:4 predicate 12:16 7:3 10:22
39:3,7 paper 8:19 picks 40:3 15:13 45:12 prosecutors 10:2
43:21 46:8 parole 50:8 place 4:24 5:15 predictable 24:5 11:5 15:9 25:2
25:11 16:16 30:1,13 places 27:15 18:3 49:10
29:1 30:15 34:13 play 13:7 present 8:21,22 prospect 28:17
31:2 47:16 50:22 plea 10:2 15:1,4 9:21 prove 11:1 25:3
47:21 participate 3:7 23:16 presented 20:13 25:3 38:12,14
49:5 51:12 particular 20:5 please 3:13 presents 11:14 provides 24:21
42:22 24:19 14:6 19:14 proving 46:1,23
50:5 passive 32:22 10:24 12:12 pretty 5:24 21:18 provision 9:7
pattern 23:16 35:21 37:15 44:11 pull 4:24 5:19
49:16 people 21:14 28:5 29:10,12 probably 10:3 punishments
47:3 racing 33:25 34:5 remain 15:23 24:5 25:25 27:2 52:10 53:23
32:3,5,6 ran 30:9 repeal 15:17 35:12,22 38:18 49:2,4 51:18
41:13 range 14:21 16:24 39:23 42:16 running 21:13
ranging 3:20 repealed 16:10 43:18 44:25 31:20,23 33:7
rea 5:8 report 32:20,20 6:3,7,22 7:7,12
real 21:14 28:17 43:25 12:2 13:18,19 safe 4:24 5:15
39:22 really 11:6 19:9 51:16 18:24 19:5,10 satisfied 48:14
23:22 40:11 requirement 19:14,20 20:4,8 satisfies 50:13
18:2 27:1 46:18 residual 23:25 37:25 38:12,25 says 10:14 16:8
45:14 recidivism 35:2 39:4 43:17,19 39:8 40:12,13 21:22 34:20
16:3,10 recognized 31:8 resolve 22:15 risky 23:1 27:20 6:11 9:22 10:8
17:7,15 43:19 respond 5:3 31:11,12,15 14:8,25 16:2
20:23 recognizes 4:7 Respondent 1:19 33:23 34:21 17:7 20:18 21:7
22:16,19 refer 4:2 2:7 24:17 38:3,6,13,15 25:16,18 26:20
29:10 referred 5:5 52:1 responding 38:20 41:22 27:3,4,17 30:23
39:25 referring 51:20 29:12 42:3,5 44:2 31:5 34:8,11,12
45:1 46:3 refers 13:2 responds 13:8 45:18 46:1 35:6 38:6,8,15
regarding 23:20 response 6:12 48:20 38:20,22 42:2,5
50:14 20:14 result 40:22,25 ROBERTS 3:3 Scalia's 17:11,22
reliable 23:23 right 4:14 9:16 31:14,17 32:2 Schmuck 46:11
28:9,17 significant 9:19 27:12 34:9 5:18 6:3,16 Sykes 1:3 3:4,21
18:3 similarity 40:8 25:10 33:25 51:13 T
33:11 simple 16:21,25 34:8,15,16,22 stopping 28:5,20 T 2:1,1
35:4 21:20 22:24 speeds 32:1 34:5 strays 42:22 15:4,4,8 32:16
47:2 23:5 35:24 36:1 40:6 50:4 strikes 13:4 35:16 46:2,10
33:21 simply 23:19 standpoint 4:21 strips 39:22 takes 15:14 51:8
41:14 31:11 start 50:21 53:13 struggling 39:24 talk 26:8
sitting 32:24 14:15,20 17:2,3 submitted 53:24 talking 24:23
situations 10:1 35:2,19 37:13 subsection 24:23 37:18
26:21 solve 52:8 38:23 45:12,15 47:20 49:3 tapes 3:8
somebody 6:8 45:17,21 46:24 substantial 4:3 target 42:25 43:8
8:4,22 9:5 44:13 States 1:1,6,12 14:6 18:13 Tate 7:20
11:14 sorry 5:13 9:18 3:5 9:3,12,14 subterfuge 52:4 Taylor 8:13
20:8 14:11 16:9 37:5,7,9,14,21 succinctly 50:24 tell 25:8,9 38:17
23:4 31:6 19:23 37:24,25 44:7 suggest 7:9,15 46:25 49:11
40:12 sort 6:13 13:7 44:10,16,19,23 14:3,19 15:9 50:25
47:6 50:1 36:19 49:20 45:4 22:15 24:3,11 tells 28:5 31:2
Sotomayor 11:24 State's 8:1 30:9,11 50:21 terminate 29:8
29:21 47:4,7,13 11:9 13:10 35:23 44:6 46:11 48:11,13
26:8 specific 42:25 49:15 52:21,22 sure 4:18 12:15 they'd 10:5
32:21 43:8 52:25 53:1 21:25 37:6 thing 21:22,24
track 45:2 41:25 50:5 24:25 25:2 28:24 29:8,15
8:4,23 traffic 8:3 12:17 53:10 40:17 46:6,7 30:11 31:5,15
13:19,22 25:11 typically 26:19 48:7 31:24 32:8,12
17:11 transcripts 3:7 29:3 32:1 42:24 verb 42:16 32:16 33:5,8,11
20:2 21:15 translate 30:20 versus 7:20 33:24 34:2,10
22:18 traveling 39:11 U view 9:1 34:12,25 35:12
24:21 50:4 ultimate 14:24 violate 5:7 35:15,20 36:7
28:11 treat 14:20 37:25 ultimately 49:24 violated 47:24 37:13 38:8,18
44:7,7,18,21 understand 5:20 48:2 38:21 39:23
32:9 44:23 9:11 16:2,20 violates 5:15 40:19,23 41:10
33:8,16 treated 14:17 32:3 35:21 46:5 violating 3:22 41:17,20 42:4,7
34:4,12 45:16 46:24 understanding 18:10 42:18 43:5,10
37:2,21 treating 38:24 34:1 violation 5:1 11:9 43:18 44:16,19
39:9 treats 3:19 45:17 understood 16:9 19:19 49:25 44:23 45:9 46:9
40:2,4,10 45:19,24 undoubtedly violations 4:20 46:19 47:5,11
45:9,20 trespass 26:22 14:23 50:8 47:18 48:9,18
26:24,25 United 1:1,6,12 violence 16:6 49:7 50:16
47:5,9,12 trespassing 3:4 18:23 19:1,7 52:13
49:18 26:21 unlicensed 27:14 27:24 32:3 41:6 want 4:23 10:8
50:2,9 trial 10:5 15:2 39:13 43:14 51:9,14 31:1,22 38:14
tried 34:23 47:3 unrelated 49:25 53:7 41:15
truck 7:25 use 9:4,5 12:8 13:15,20,23 warrants 50:8
27:3 35:6 try 45:2 usually 26:8 20:19 22:20 way 3:22 11:4
39:15,17 trying 6:9 11:17 27:1,7 28:10,12 13:9,10,11
32:4 43:16 48:4,22 variation 45:5 34:11 36:6 27:16 32:14
23:13 28:8 32:9 10:15,19 13:6 visible 16:6 weird 22:2,10
34:20 46:14 49:7 31:25 35:11 W 47:2
38:13 40:11 20:15 22:12,13 27:3,8 28:7,21 we've 24:23 28:9
10 25:10 34:14 7
3:10 10:58 54:1 8
100 8:2 80 42:15
30:23 170 34:6
32:5 1998 24:23,25
25:5 38:9 47:1
22:3 20 8:1
23:14 2006 11:8
44:13 2009 7:19
1:9
16:5 49:16
30 39:19
44:6,10
50:17
45 7:23
1:5 3:4 45-minute 7:24
9:12 37:6,9
4:2 10:4,15,18 5
13:15,23 50 2:10 49:24
15:17
20:21 6
23:21 60 11:10
