IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
DORETHA H. HENDERSON, AUTHORIZED :
REPRESENTATIVE OF DAVID L. :
HENDERSON, DECEASED, :
Petitioner : No. 09-1036
v. :
ERIC K. SHINSEKI, SECRETARY OF :
VETERANS AFFAIRS :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, December 6, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
LISA S. BLATT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
LISA S. BLATT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 09-1036, Henderson v.
Shinseki.
Ms. Blatt.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. BLATT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The Federal Circuit's decision in this case
forecloses judicial review when the very disability for
which a veteran seeks benefits prevents the veteran from
filing a timely appeal with the Veterans Court. That
decision is wrong, and for three reasons the court of
appeals erred in holding that the deadline at issue in
this case is jurisdictional.
First, the statute contains no clear
indication that the deadline is jurisdictional. Rather,
the text and structure point away from a jurisdictional
reading.
Second, a deadline that applies to disabled
and largely uncounseled veterans seeking their first day
in court is not the type of deadline that Congress would
be expected to rank as jurisdictional.
And, third, a jurisdictional reading would
render some of the most disabled of veterans the least
likely to obtain benefits and would treat veterans worse
off than almost all litigants in our Federal system.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Blatt, you do have a
substantial hurdle to contend with in this Court's
decision in Bowles v. Russell, which seemed to say if
you have a time limit and it's statutory, it is
mandatory and jurisdictional.
So here, we have a time limit set by
statute, not by rule, and why doesn't -- why isn't that
dispositive?
MS. BLATT: Because neither this Court's
decision in Bowles nor any other decision by this Court
holds that this type of an appeal from a pro-claimant
and non-adversarial proceeding to a court of first
review clearly speaks in jurisdictional terms,
notwithstanding the lack of a jurisdictional label.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Gee, I thought Bowles was a
nice, clear case. I mean, you can always find some
distinction in the next case, and I thought the object
of Bowles was to say if it's a -- if it's a limit on
appeal, it's jurisdictional. That would -- and that's,
I gather, what the Federal Circuit took it to mean. And
I would have done that if I was down there, probably.
MS. BLATT: I mean, I can understand why
maybe the Federal Circuit did it, because of the one
statement that the court, I think, took out of context.
But this Court's decision in Bowles didn't purport to
extend to any statute, no matter what the statute said
or what the context it arose in. And the most closely
analogous context of an appeal of agency action to a
court of first review is a Social Security context.
And even if you don't think that that
context is directly on point, then the historical
backdrop at most would be inconclusive, and that hardly
would rise to the type of -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But doesn't -- doesn't the
Social Security context -- it doesn't speak of an
appeal, does it? It talks of a civil action.
MS. BLATT: That's right. I mean, it -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you're right that
-- you know, that there is -- there is a parallel in
what's going on, but the statute does not call it an
appeal. It calls it bringing a civil action -
MS. BLATT: Right, and the -- and there's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- to challenge their
decision.
MS. BLATT: There's nothing inherently
jurisdictional about the word "appeal." And,
Justice Scalia, if Congress that passed this statute
wanted to pick up on the jurisdictional rule under 28
U.S.C. 2107, presumably it would have written a statute
that looks something like that statute with the safety
valves.
Of course, when a -- all litigants, civil
litigants who are appealing a district court judgment to
a court of appeals, they have a jurisdictional deadline,
but the district court can extend it for good cause or
excusable neglect or when the party lacks notice of an
adverse judgment. More importantly, the Federal Rules
of Appellate Procedure cure the situation when a
litigant timely files his appeal but does so in the
wrong forum.
In this statute, Congress knew how to
incorporate the jurisdictional rule of Bowles. It did
so in a separate provision of the statute in 7292(a).
It said when a litigant wants to go from the Veterans
Court and appeal that decision to the Federal Circuit,
the litigant has to follow the time and the manner
prescribed for appealing district court judgments to
court of appeals.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that is
jurisdictional, 7292?
MS. BLATT: Yes. Yes. And interestingly,
it also goes on to say if you want to appeal to this
Court, you have to apply for certiorari. So Congress -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- so -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Go on.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm -- I'm not sure why
Congress would have actually known the difference that
we established in Bowles, because when it passed this
statute, it was before Bowles, wasn't it?
MS. BLATT: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what to read of its
knowledge of Bowles, whether it meant jurisdiction or
not, is -- is a bit of a fiction, isn't it?
MS. BLATT: No. I think what's important is
that Bowles is relying on a series of decisions that had
nothing to do with the word "notice of appeal," of
course, because they were dealing with cases involving
writs of error and petitions for a writ of certiorari.
It was all in the context of court-to-court appeals.
Bowles doesn't even mention agency appeal of agency
action to a court of first review.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what's the rule?
Justice Scalia said Bowles seemed to establish a
sensible, clear rule, which is if Congress uses the word
"notice of appeal," it intends a jurisdictional
restriction.
MS. BLATT: Well, what -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That appears to be the
rule that Justice Scalia articulated.
What would be your rule or test now to
determine Congress's purpose? What -- what of our cases
would you point to that establish a different rule?
MS. BLATT: The rule of Reed Elsevier, which
was a unanimous decision, which says -- and it was
written by the same author of Bowles -- that all the
decisions are consistent. You require a clear statement
of jurisdictional intent. And in Bowles, this Court had
read the type of limitation that was at issue in Bowles
as to clearly speak in jurisdictional terms,
notwithstanding a label. Here, you have -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure what that
distinction is. I'm sorry. It -
MS. BLATT: You had a century -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But what we went on was
the word "notice of appeal" in Bowles, with -- within a
historical context.
MS. BLATT: I don't think this Court said
the word "notice" -- and notice of appeal is not
jurisdictional in the criminal context, and Congress
used the word "appeal" throughout this particular
statute in a non-jurisdictional meaning in all the
proceedings that go in the agency. It used the term
"appellate" and "review on appeal." It's actually
called the Board of Veterans' Appeal. Substantive
appeal. None of those words have "jurisdictional." And
if Congress was just thinking of the word "notice of
appeal," it -- I mean, the term has a non-jurisdictional
meaning in the criminal context.
But if you just look at this statute, which
says -- it's directed just at the litigant's obligation
to file his -- his appeal within a certain time line,
and there's actually a completely separate statute that
speaks to the power of the court, the Veterans Court,
7252(a), and that makes no reference to the 120-day
deadline.
And I think in terms of the context,
let's -- this is exactly the type of deadline that
Congress would be expected to be subject to equitable
tolling. Let me just give you the three reasons -
JUSTICE ALITO: When you -- you would have
us make a statute-by-statute determination as to what we
think Congress intended whenever it uses the term
"notice of appeal." And perhaps that's not a big
problem, if there are not a lot of other statutes like
this one that use the term "notice of appeal" and with
respect to which it is not settled whether it is
jurisdictional.
Do you have any sense of how many others
there might be?
MS. BLATT: Yes. I think I found four that
used the term "notice of appeal," and it was in
connection with the district court, and they weren't
even reported cases. They were very esoteric
situations, like an order from the Department of
Agriculture. I mean, maybe the Government has
different.
What you mostly see is the Hobbs Act
context, where you're talking about either an organic
statute or 28 U.S.C. 2344, which is just a simple
petition for review. That doesn't even use the word
"notice of appeal." So this case is not going to
dictate a whole lot, except for the veterans context,
where not only do you have the standard lack of
indication that this is not jurisdictional, but you have
the unique features in that Congress established this
court to open the door to veterans seeking disability
benefits, and it would just conflict with that purpose
to, at the same time, shut the door when the veteran's
disability prevents him from getting to the courthouse.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Although that -- although
that would happen when he appeals from the -- from the
veterans' appeals court, right?
MS. BLATT: Yes, and -- but that points out
the irony: He's in better off shape if he appeals to
the court of appeals, because there, there's at least
important exceptions.
The Government's position assumes that no
matter what the circumstances were -- and remember, a
lot of these cases, the veteran is actually timely
filing his appeal; he mistakenly files in the Veterans
Administration rather than the Veterans Court. And the
Government's position assumes that these uncounseled
veterans are simply out of time and out of luck with no
exception.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How much time does 7292
give to go from the Veterans Court to the Federal
Circuit?
MS. BLATT: It says you have to follow the
exact time and procedure that is set forth in the
process for appealing a United States district court
decision to the United States courts of appeals. So it
is the procedures under 28 U.S.C. 2107.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But this one, to get to the
Veterans Court, is 120 days, which is a lot of time. Do
you know of any other time limit that is that long?
MS. BLATT: Well, sure. I mean, the statute
of limitations in Zipes, which is 180 days to file a
charge with the EEOC. But in the veterans context -
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, for appeal. For
appeal.
MS. BLATT: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know of any other
appeal statute that -
MS. BLATT: Yes, the veterans context. The
-- this is a blink of an eye in the veterans context.
The veteran is given an entire year -- not 120 days, a
year -- after an initial decision comes down from a
regional office to decide whether to appeal to the
Boards of Veterans' Appeals.
And you have to keep in mind that this is
the type of extra time we're talking about. An extra 30
to 60 days would be an extremely poor and unlikely means
for Congress to address the type of situation where
equitable tolling might be needed, which is either
because the Secretary has held onto the notice of appeal
until after the 120 days and then tells the veteran, or
the veteran has some devastating mental illness and has
difficulty with processing deadlines and dealing with
concepts.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the latter I can
understand, but I don't have a whole lot of sympathy
for -- I mean, when he loses below, he gets a notice
that says specifically he has to file an appeal with
this court, doesn't it? Doesn't it say that?
MS. BLATT: Yes, and it says -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So he sends it -- he sends
it to the VA instead of to this court?
MS. BLATT: Well, it is a -- you can look it
up. It's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would equitable tolling
even cover that situation? It would seem to me -- I'd
say it told you where to file; you simply didn't follow
the instructions.
MS. BLATT: Not only has the Federal Circuit
ruled en banc that it does, but this Court's decision in
Irwin and in United States v. Young specifically
recognized that a classic equitable tolling situation is
when there's no prejudice to the other side and the
litigant files in the wrong forum.
And you have to keep in mind, there's a
Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure on point. Rule 4(d)
says when a litigant mistakenly files his notice of
appeal in the court of appeals, that's presumed to be
correctly filed in the district court. And whatever you
think about what your -- what an average-type person
might see when they see a two-page single-spaced form
with a lot of legalese, it's -- this form is difficult
for a lawyer to read, and to expect -- the vast majority
of the claimants reading this form are uncounseled. And
I urge you to read the form. It doesn't just say you
have 120 days to appeal. It goes on and on and on
telling -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is that? Is that -
MS. BLATT: It's cited in the Government's
brief. It's got the VA form, and I -- I had to look it
up just by punching it in on the Internet.
But whatever you think about the clarity -
of someone -- of your statute -- that might be able to
understand it, time and time again, veterans file in the
wrong forum. And it's not always just the veteran's
fault. Sometimes the Secretary is giving the veteran
misleading advice. We cite cases in our brief, and so
do the amici, where the Veterans Administration is
giving the veteran just misleading advice.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Blatt, you are
making -- you said that the closest comparison is in the
Social Security, because there's disability benefits in
both cases. Apart from that we -- one is commenced by a
complaint filed in the district court, the other, a
notice of appeal, is there any difference in the brand
of review? That is -- as I understand it, Social
Security review, although it's by the district court, is
also on the administrative record.
MS. BLATT: Well, it's purely appellate, and
district courts always say when they get these things:
This is an appeal of a Social Security decision.
But I think the three reasons that I'm
trying to get on why this is precisely the type of
deadline that Congress would not rank as jurisdictional
and would want to be subject to equitable tolling are
the -- pretty much the reasons that apply even more so
in the veterans context.
And that is, the first, is that this is an
extremely favored class of litigants. These are
veterans who have fought for their country and who are
seeking service-connected disability benefits.
This is also the veterans' first opportunity
to get to a court, which is true in the Social Security
system. And, importantly, the vast majority of veterans
go to the court without counsel. The numbers are over
50 to 70 percent. And that was true in the Social
Security system.
I don't think that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, counting -- I
appreciate all those points, but counting -- cutting,
perhaps, the other way is that it's not a real
adversarial system before you get to that stage. It's a
collaborative effort, the Veterans Administration and
the -- the individual.
MS. BLATT: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which seems to me
may counterbalance a little bit the fact that the
veterans are uncounseled.
MS. BLATT: Well, I mean, up until 2006,
they were actually barred from having lawyers.
But this is the same thing as the Social
Security context, which is what this Court relied on
unanimously in Bowen, in holding that it's not
jurisdictional, and it's also what this Court relied on
in Zipes, is that you wouldn't expect Congress to enact
an inflexible, harsh, no exceptions whatsoever
jurisdictional deadline when Congress presumably knew
that the vast majority of people who would be navigating
this system, coming out of this extremely informal
adversarial system where the Secretary had a duty to
actually assist the veteran and then hitting what is
then an adversarial system, and you would think that you
would want equitable tolling. The -
JUSTICE SCALIA: They don't navigate it
entirely unassisted. I mean, isn't there usually
assistance from a nongovernmental organization such as
the American Legion or -
MS. BLATT: Yes, in the Veterans
Administration, not in Veterans Court. So 50 to 70
percent -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right, but do they
-- do they drop them like a hot potato once the VA
portion is over? They don't counsel about how to file
an appeal?
MS. BLATT: That's correct, but I wouldn't
say they drop them like a hot potato. These are people
who are sitting in the VA, and they -- remember, like in
this case, it's 3 years later; they don't even get
notice of the final decision, which is just sent to the
veteran. They don't have any kind of lawyer
relationship. It's like someone at one of the VA
offices who says: Let me help you, tell you what to do.
And then that's it. So, no, they don't -- they don't
practice in Veterans Court. They don't -- they don't
say, you know, here's my card, let's keep in touch. And
it might be 3 to 4 years later that a notice is sent to
the veteran.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you think normally he
isn't assisted -- he is not assisted by one of these
people?
MS. BLATT: Well, I know that. The Veterans
Court's statistics says it's 70 percent. Pro se.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well -
MS. BLATT: No lawyer. And the actual -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not talking about a
lawyer; I'm talking about advice from somebody at -- in
the American Legion.
MS. BLATT: Even if -- okay. They're still
not lawyers, but the -- the veterans' assistance
organizations who filed in this case are telling you
they don't participate in Veterans Court. That's not
what they do. They are set up in the VA system. So -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think -- unless
I'm missing the point of my colleague's question, it's
two different issues.
Of course, they don't participate in the
court. They're not -- they're not lawyers. But it's
not clear to me why they wouldn't participate at least
in the process of saying you've got to file your notice
and here's where you file it.
Are you saying they don't do that?
MS. BLATT: They, by and large, don't do
that, and the veterans' organizations that filed amicus
briefs say they also make the same mistake. They're not
lawyers, and they often file in the wrong forum, too.
But, again, what's -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, they do it
regularly, and they -- every now and then, they file it
in the wrong place?
MS. BLATT: Yes. I mean, half the cases
that we -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't see how that
works. You've got somebody there, and he has been
telling them where to file it and file it and file it,
and all of a sudden he tells him to file it someplace
else?
MS. BLATT: Again, as far as I am aware,
they don't counsel veterans after they make their final
decision.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Earlier, Ms. Blatt, you
said that they wouldn't even know.
MS. BLATT: They wouldn't -- right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because they don't get
notice; only the veterans -
MS. BLATT: Right. They wouldn't get
notice. It would be -- someone would have to have some
sort of relationship and call that person. But in this
case -- I mean, I can tell you there was no -- the
veteran just had his wife, and there was no one else
involved in the process other than his doctors. But in
terms of -
JUSTICE ALITO: What happens if the veteran
doesn't get notice?
MS. BLATT: Well, he's out of luck,
according to the Government. That's just tough.
But, again, thinking about -- and remember
that not only is there a clear statement rule in types
of jurisdiction, but we have an equally strong canon
that veterans' statutes are to be construed liberally in
the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- what clear
statement rule are you talking about?
MS. BLATT: Just the rule of Reed Elsevier
and Arbaugh, that unless a statute clearly speaks in
jurisdictional terms -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, I know. I
remember that.
MS. BLATT: -- you don't presume it's
jurisdictional.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I remember that. I
thought that that was a prospective bright-line rule.
It's kind of hard to apply a new bright-line rule
retrospectively. I understood what we said in those
cases to be: Look, Congress, we're tired of trying to
sort out this ambiguity. From now on, if you want it to
be treated as jurisdictional, tell us it's
jurisdictional.
That makes sense prospectively, but it
doesn't make sense to do that to statues that were
passed before we announced our bright-line preference.
MS. BLATT: Well, it doesn't sense to say in
1988 Congress was trying to map onto some -- some
pre-existing structure that didn't exist. Bowles didn't
exist. You may -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. I'm trying -- I
understand -- changing the subject -- but in my
question, you invoked the bright-line rule of Arbaugh
that the statute should say "jurisdictional." And I'm
just saying that only makes sense prospectively.
MS. BLATT: I can see your point. I don't
think that that's what Arbaugh intended. I think it
said that when you have a statutory requirement and when
it doesn't speak to the jurisdiction of the court,
there's no reason to think that it should restrict the
jurisdiction of the court. This doesn't say anything
about the court's power.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Blatt, are you -- are
you -- we have in Bowles itself -- it was from the
district court to the court of appeals, and then we have
from the court of appeals to this Court. Those two
provisions were cited in Bowles, the 2107. And what is
the provision for -- for cert?
MS. BLATT: 2101(c).
JUSTICE GINSBURG: 2101. Those -- those, as
far as I remember, were the only provisions that were
cited.
MS. BLATT: Well, and the predecessors
called writ of error. Right, they were -- I mean, this
couldn't be further from it. Congress, when it passed
this statute, said you have 120 days to file your
appeal. And then in a whole -- and said -- didn't say
anything about the jurisdiction. And a separate version
said: Here's the jurisdiction, and we'll incorporate
some procedural requirements, but we're not even going
to mention the 120-day deadline. And then it goes to
great pains to say 2107 will apply when you appeal from
the Veterans Court to the Federal Circuit, and you'll
have to apply for certiorari.
But to think about what the Government's
position is, is that, notwithstanding that criminal
defendants and Social Security claimants do not face
jurisdictional deadlines, all the civil litigants in our
system who do face jurisdictional deadlines can get an
extension for good cause, excusable neglect, when they
don't have notice of an adverse judgment, and the
situation is cured when they actually timely file but
they mistakenly file with the wrong court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So whenever we have time
limits in the future that do not contain any -- any
explicit provision for waiver of failure to meet those
time limits, you're asking us to find that all of those
are non-jurisdictional?
MS. BLATT: Well, all statute of limitations
are not jurisdictional. So there's no question -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, is it a filing
requirement? It's -- it's a -
MS. BLATT: Well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's an appeal. It's a
requirement for appeal.
Whenever there is an appeal deadline that
does not have an exception for -- you know, you -- you
can get it extended for 10 days or whatnot -- whenever
there's no exception, you want us to hold it's not
jurisdictional?
MS. BLATT: No, of course not. Like I just
said, I don't know of any that even come up, except
for -- I think I found four that say "notice of appeal."
All the types of cases that you see are
dealing with a petition for review of agency action,
à la the Hobbs Act context. So what I'm asking you to
hold is that when you have a -- this particular statute,
which the text and structure certainly say it's not
jurisdictional, it is exactly the -- it is not the type
of deadline you would expect it, and it would undermine
all of the purposes that Congress set up this court,
which was to ensure they had their day in court, they
get the benefits they are entitled to, and, importantly,
to cure the perception that veterans were being -- not
being treated the way all other claimants seeking
Federal benefits were.
This would completely counter that purpose,
to say: Here's a court; we have built it for you, but
if you can't get up the courthouse steps, that's too
bad. If your very disability prevents you from filing
or you've been abused by the VA -- the VA bureaucracy,
you're out of luck and out of court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Although you're willing
to -- to allow that happen when there's an appeal
from -- from the first appeal, right?
MS. BLATT: And here's why, Justice Scalia.
The veteran has had a day in court. Once he is out of
the Veterans Court, he is like every -- or she is like
every other litigant in our Federal system, which -- the
deadline applies to the government; the deadline applies
to the party -- to any party. That's 2107, which
applies to all civil litigants equally. They've had
their day in court, and if it's in the Hobbs Act
context, usually they've had some sort of adversarial,
court-like proceeding in the administrative agency.
But no decision -- and, again, keep in mind
there were three decisions in the Social Security
context -- no decision has ever said a pro-claimant,
non-adversary appeal to a court of first review is
jurisdictional. So Congress was acting against that
backdrop.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that was -
MS. BLATT: There's no such decision.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was the Federal
Circuit's position until Bowles, right? But this was an
en banc decision, and it overruled two prior cases -
MS. BLATT: Right. And they did go back and
forth, so there was a period of 6 years that they held
it was jurisdictional, and then a period of 11 years,
the last 11 years, where it has been non-jurisdictional,
and there has been equitable tolling.
JUSTICE ALITO: If the veteran is so
profoundly disabled that the veteran can't file the
notice of appeal within 120 days after the notice of the
decision, at what point after the 120-day period would
the right to file a notice of appeal be cut off? Would
this go on potentially indefinitely?
MS. BLATT: No. I mean, in adopting
equitable tolling by the Federal Circuit for mental
disabilities -- that case is Barrett v. Principi on
page 9 of our brief. It goes through how all the sister
circuits have dealt with the issue of mental disability
and Title VII, in the Social Security system, and -- and
how you would deal with that.
But let's take this case, because it's a
good example. The doctor said he was -- he's paranoid
schizophrenic, so he's having periods, and what -- to
quote the doctor that was submitted to the Veterans
Court, he had episodes of what was basically called
psychomotor retardation and total inability to function,
and at other times he was just simply disorganized, had
difficulty with recall and memory.
So he wrote a handwritten note within
15 days saying: I've been on and off. And he was
obviously extremely heavily medicated.
If I could reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Miller.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. MILLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In Bowles v. Russell, this Court reaffirmed
its longstanding treatment of statutory time limits for
the taking of appeals as jurisdictional. Section
7266(a) imposes a 120-day time limit on the taking of an
appeal to the Veterans Court, and under the rule
reaffirmed in Bowles, that time limit is a limit on the
court's jurisdiction, and the judgment of the court of
appeals should be therefore be affirmed.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So it's only -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course, in Bowles
it was from an Article III court to another Article III
court. Here, although we're dealing with an Article I
court, there are characteristics of what you might call
internal agency review. The court is specialized with
respect to veterans' affairs, and there are particular
standards for review that you don't find when you're
talking about between the district court and the court
of appeals.
MR. MILLER: Well, I -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess it's
related -- just to get everything out on the table, it's
related to the same point that I thought was significant
in Bowles: That you are dealing with a time limitation
that lawyers had long recognized as being, you know, a
drop-dead date.
MR. MILLER: That -- that is true, but what
Bowles emphasized was not just the historical treatment
of the particular time limit in section 2107, but the
historical treatment of statutory time limits for
appeals in general, which is why the Court cited not
only 2107 cases but -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It didn't mention --
Bowles didn't mention anything like an appeal from an
agency where the district court is -- is sitting,
essentially, as an appellate court.
But Bowles really was dealing with
court-to-court, because it mentioned 2107 and 2101, and
I don't recall that it mentioned any -- anything other
than court-to-court situations.
MR. MILLER: You're -- you're correct that
Bowles was focused on court-to-court appeals, but, of
course, in Stone v. INS, which involved a deadline for
petitioning for review of a final decision of the Board
of Immigration Appeals, the Court held that that time
limit was jurisdictional. So I think that the same
principle applies to appeals from agencies -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Except that -- that one
is an adversarial proceeding, the immigration
proceeding, and the veterans' is supposed to be
claimant-friendly.
But I think that the -- the -- just as
Bowles is -- is a challenge for Ms. Blatt, so for you is
the Social Security context, because it seems to me the
quality of review is the same; that is, what the
district court does in a Social Security disability case
is the same thing that the Veterans Court does in a
veteran's disability case.
MR. MILLER: It -- it is true that
functionally, the review that takes place under section
405(g) has a lot of appeal-like features, but what's -
and so in that sense, you know, Bowen was like a hybrid
case, because you have something that looks a little bit
like an appeal, but it takes place in a district court
and in a court of original jurisdiction, and, most
importantly, Congress referred to it as a civil action
that is commenced by the party who is filing a
complaint.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it is -- it is an
appellate review, isn't it? I mean, the district court
goes on the record before the agency.
MR. MILLER: The -- the review is very much
like -- functionally like what would happen in the court
of appeals, but Congress chose to call it commencing a
civil action. And you commence it by filing a
complaint, which is quite different from the notice of
appeal here. On the notice of appeal, there's a form
for doing it, or if you don't use the form, all it takes
is one sentence. And -
JUSTICE BREYER: Are we supposed to still
pay some attention to what we think Congress would have
intended?
MR. MILLER: Certainly.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. And if the
answer is "certainly," how likely do you think it is
that Congress would have intended its statutes, in an
ordinary case where two big businesses are suing each
other and they've already had a day in court and now one
of them wants to appeal and Congress writes in, if you
miss the deadline, you can have it extended through
excusable neglect, and you can even have it extended
much later if nobody got a notice. That's with two big
businesses.
But if you have someone who served his
country and was wounded and has post-traumatic stress
syndrome or schizophrenia, to that person you say -- who
has never had a day in court -- if you don't meet the
deadline, you are out, no matter how excusable it is.
How -- who in Congress would have likely
thought such a thing?
MR. MILLER: Well -- I think in evaluating
what Congress thought in 1988, one factor that's
significant is that this was taking place -- the
Veterans' Judicial Review Act -- against a backdrop of
decades of no judicial review whatsoever of veterans' -
of VA administrative decisions.
And so Petitioner's position is that
essentially, Congress, in one fell swoop, went from no
review whatsoever to what would be the most forgiving
appeal deadline in the entire United States Code.
And -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And it made some
sense. I mean, when you look at the statistics, when
you get into this court, the veterans almost always win,
right?
MR. MILLER: When you look at decisions on
the merits as opposed to agreed-upon remands, the
veterans win in most cases. I -
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the relevance of
that, if the veterans win? I mean, perhaps they are
entitled to win. Is the idea that you would cut off
their right to appeal because you are afraid they'd win?
MR. MILLER: Of course not. I -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: My point was the
exact opposite: That if you -- if they almost always
win, you assume that Congress wouldn't want to cut them
off, because it's -- you know, if only 1 percent of the
veterans appealing win, then you might understand an
absolute rule, because they're not as -- statistically
anyway, we're not losing much.
But if, as I understand to be the case,
about 80 percent of them win, you might cut them a
little slack on appealing because it is a very
significant part of the -- the process.
MR. MILLER: First, I would say I think the
reversal rate is not necessarily out of line with what
you find in other agency review contexts, but -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What is -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- what is the
reversal rate?
MR. MILLER: I think, of cases that are
decided on the merits, about a quarter are reversed and
remanded, and about 34 percent are affirmed in part and
reversed in part.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Any idea what the
normal rule is from district court to court of appeals?
MR. MILLER: I -- I don't know the
percentage there, but I think in considering that rate,
it's significant that the great majority of claimants
who file claims in the regional office are given relief
there.
And so only about 4 percent of cases are
even appealed all the way from the regional office to
the board, and only another 9 percent to the Veterans
Court, so -- because the board gives relief in most
cases before it. So it's not like -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Miller, do you -- do
you really think Congress thought about this? Do you
think the members of Congress who voted for this bill
thought about this -- this rather narrow point, about
whether, if you file too late, it's jurisdictional or
not?
MR. MILLER: There is no indication that
they did.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So don't we pretty much
have to go on what they wrote?
MR. MILLER: Yes. And when -- when they
wrote a notice of appeal provision -- and it is clear
from the text as well as from the history that it is, in
fact, an appeal -- that was a considered decision.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'll bet you a dollar to a
donut that -- that nobody thought about this narrow -
narrow issue. So it -- it ought to be a question of -
of what this language ought to be taken to mean. What's
its fairest reading?
Now, I'm not sure that means you win, but -
but surely that's the issue, not -- not what -- you
know, whether -- whether Congress could have been so
mean. They didn't think of this.
MR. MILLER: Right. And -- and in looking
at the -
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you mean, "right"?
I thought within -- first of all, a donut costs a
dollar, so I don't see much appeal there.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: But -- but don't we,
throughout the statute books, try to work out from
context, language, and objective purpose what a
reasonable member of Congress would have intended,
whether they thought about it or whether they didn't
think about it, which would require X-rays into the
brain that have not yet been invented?
MR. MILLER: What -- what this Court has
held, in Bowles on the one hand and Irwin on the other,
is that statutory notice of appeal deadlines are
presumptively jurisdictional and statutes of limitation
are presumptively not. And -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's court to
court. Do you have any case, at the time or before the
statute was passed, that ever held that a statutory
deadline from an agency to a court of appeal was
jurisdictional in the sense of Bowles?
MR. MILLER: Stone v. INS, which was
after 1988 -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well after.
MR. MILLER: But -- but in the courts of
appeals, there was a long history of cases under the
Hobbs Act, cases under more specialized statutes, the
Communications Act, the Federal Power Act, and the
environmental statutes -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But those had different
language. They used "barred" language rather than
"filing" language. Most of those.
MR. MILLER: No, ma'am. In fact, the Hobbs
Act says a party aggrieved by the order may seek review
by filing a petition for review. It doesn't say
anything about "and a claim shall be barred if you
don't."
JUSTICE BREYER: But Bowles itself made -
made a major point, which I thought was relevant.
Though I didn't join it, I thought it was relevant. And
that is we look at the statute, if you are looking at
the statute, and notice that there are exceptions
written into it. And the fact that there are exceptions
written into it lends some support to the notion that
we, as a court, should not read other exceptions into it
that weren't mentioned. Now, that's something the Court
seemed to emphasize.
And here, when I looked at this statute, I
noticed there are no exceptions written into it. And,
therefore, following Bowles rather than rejecting
Bowles, it would seem that Bowles would support the
reading of this statute to allow courts to read into it,
because they don't mention anything themselves.
MR. MILLER: I would say two things about
that. The first is that there are many statutes,
including the Hobbs Act, the immigration statute, that
have no provision for exceptions. This Court's
certiorari deadline can be extended by a justice, but
there is no provision for a good cause exception. The
extension provision that was specifically at issue in
section 2107 in Bowles hadn't -- wasn't even enacted
until 1991. And even with an extension, I'm not aware
of any other provision that gives you as much as 120
days that you have here.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the main thing.
Leaving that out for a second, if you -- if you thought
there can't be a rule that governs all of the thousands
of different -- or many different statutes, you should
look at the context.
So sometimes you will see that Congress,
given the context, probably did want to give the court
some leeway to make exceptions -- where, for example,
it's no fault of the litigant -- and in other instances,
they didn't.
Now, you've listed -- and Bowles, I thought,
left that open. But -- but if it does leave it open,
and I'm looking to those factors, you've mentioned one:
That this is a long period of time, 120 days. You're
right about that.
Is there anything else?
MR. MILLER: Well, I -- I guess I would take
issue with the premise of what the presumption is that
Bowles set up.
Bowles established a presumption that notice
of appeal deadlines in statutes are jurisdictional
unless there is something in the text or in the history
as, for example -
JUSTICE BREYER: And what they found, one
thing in the text, was that there were exceptions
written in. That cuts against you.
One thing cuts for you; that's the length of
time. Is there anything else that cuts for you? I just
want to be sure I have all of the factors that you're
weighing.
MR. MILLER: I mean, what we're emphasizing
is that this is an appeal deadline, and in Bowles,
although it is true there were exceptions there, that
was not something that the Court emphasized in its
reasoning. The Court's -- the rationale behind Bowles
is that there's a presumption that appeal deadlines are
jurisdictional. And whatever one thinks -
JUSTICE ALITO: What happens if the -- if
the notice of decision is mistakenly mailed to the wrong
address, comes back undeliverable, and no further notice
is sent? Your -- you position is, once the 120 days
expires, the veteran is out of luck?
MR. MILLER: No, Your Honor, because in that
case, the 120 days wouldn't start running because
section 7266(a) says have you to file within 120 days
after the date on which notice of the decision is mailed
pursuant to section 7104(e), and section 7104(e), in
turn, requires that the notice be mailed to the address
of record for the claimant, and also, incidentally,
requires that if the claimant has an authorized
representative in proceedings before the court, that the
notice also be mailed to the representative.
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. But what if it's
just lost in the mail? What if it's sent to the right
address, but it's lost in the mail or is not received by
the veteran? What is the veteran supposed to do? Call
every -- every week to see whether a decision has been
issued?
MR. MILLER: I -- I think Congress, in
writing the statute, assumed that the mail can be relied
upon in the ordinary course to be delivered, and so it
made provision for the case in which the mail -- the
mailing is not made.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you say that a copy
of the notice is also sent to the representative, the
American Legion or whoever, who has been representing
the veteran?
MR. MILLER: Yes, section 7104(e)(2) says
that if the claimant has a representative, a copy is
mailed.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In what percentage of the
cases is there a representative?
MR. MILLER: I think it's about 80 percent
that there's -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, what I -
MR. MILLER: -- 80 percent, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I sense some
confusion here, given what you and your friend have
said. What do you mean when you say "counseled"? Do
you mean --- I mean, if you have somebody from the
American Legion that is telling this person here's what
you need to do, does he get a notice, or are you talking
about just the situation where somebody comes in and
says, I'm -- well, I'm this person's lawyer, or I'm
representing him in some other way?
MR. MILLER: There -- there is a procedure
for official accreditation of representatives -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERT: Right.
MR. MILLER: -- from organizations like the
American Legion, and if that person is registered as the
claimant's representative in the proceeding before the
board, then they would get a copy of the notice under
7104.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you say -- you say
that 80 percent of the time there is a registered -
MR. MILLER: Yes, that's -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- advocate or counsel?
MR. MILLER: Yes. Now, I think, as I was -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what happened in this
case? Was there -- was there a registered
representative?
MR. MILLER: I'm -- I'm not sure whether
there was. I -- I don't believe so.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You made a point earlier
that, well, this is -- the Social Security, there are
many resemblances, but one is started by complaint and
the other by notice of appeal. It could be that
Congress, having been so kind to veterans, thought: Why
should we burden this pro se, or at least lawyer-less,
veteran with writing out a complaint? The notice of
appeal is just a simple one-line document.
So could that explain why Congress said you
begin with a notice of appeal instead of a formal
complaint?
MR. MILLER: I think that may well be what
Congress had in mind. But, nonetheless, the -- the rule
established in this Court's cases is that when a notice
of appeal deadlines -- and -- and I think that point
just illustrates that this is, in fact, a notice of
appeal deadline -- notice of appeal deadlines are
different from statutes of limitations. And whatever
one thinks of the original theoretical underpinnings of
that distinction, it's a distinction that's firmly
engrained in the law, and this -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did Congress -- let's
assume we -- we come out with a decision against the
veteran. Could Congress change the rule retroactively,
including for this poor fellow?
MR. MILLER: It could if it chose to do so,
yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that wouldn't be
contrary to any of our decisions because the government
is the defendant and is essentially waiving its
sovereign immunity? Would that be the theory?
MR. MILLER: I think if Congress -- well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, there has been -
will have been a final decision in this case, right?
MR. MILLER: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So can Congress say, you
know, go back and do it over again and give it to this
guy?
MR. MILLER: I -- I believe that, you know,
since what's at stake is -- I think, ultimately, the
question would be whether the government issues a
monetary award to him. And Congress certainly has the
power to simply direct that money be paid to this
claimant. So, for sure, I think it could direct that
his case be reopened.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there's no -- been no
determination on the merits whether this claimant should
prevail.
MR. MILLER: No.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That hasn't been aired
because the Veterans Court said it had no jurisdiction,
and the Federal Circuit said that's right. So we don't
know if this is a good or bad claim.
MR. MILLER: Right, but I -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So Congress couldn't just
award money because there has to be an adjudication.
MR. MILLER: Congress would have the
constitutional power to just award money.
I had understood Justice Scalia's question
to be whether -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Justice Scalia just asked
you: Could this be -- if Congress decided that this was
a harsh result, could it be made retroactive? But for
Congress to say, well, just -- what is it going to rely
on to say whether it gives compensation or not? I mean,
the Government's position was he wasn't entitled to
compensation for home care, which is what he was
seeking.
MR. MILLER: Right. The question I was
trying to address was whether Congress could amend the
statute so as to retroactively reopen Petitioner's
claim. And my answer was yes, it could do that, if it
were to choose to do so.
Now, the VA, of course, has submitted a
proposal to Congress for an extension of the period on
showing a good cause up to 120 days. The VA's proposal
would not apply retroactively, but Congress in its
discretion could choose.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: On the length of time,
which is, you said, 120 days -- yes, that's a long time,
but isn't it on cert? It's 90 days plus 60, right? So
it's even more.
MR. MILLER: Right. Although if you -- I
mean, if somebody who misses the 90 days -- my
understanding of the operation of this Court's Rule 13
is that the clerk will not accept for filing a petition
filed on day 91.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the total number of
days would exceed 120, assuming that the application is
made -
MR. MILLER: Right. Although -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Application to extend is
timely.
MR. MILLER: Although, of course, filing a
cert petition is a much greater undertaking than filing
a notice of appeal. You have to -- it's much more than
a simple -- simple one-line document that we have here.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is supposed to
happen -- and I've probably seen this on page 16 of the
Federal Circuit Bar's amicus brief. They list about 30
or 40 cases where the veteran perhaps wasn't represented
and maybe had some stress syndrome, whatever it is. He
just filed the paper in the wrong court, and the -- or
the wrong agency, and that agency didn't get around to
returning it to him in time so he could have met this
deadline.
What, in your opinion, is supposed to happen
in those circumstances? Just say too bad, you're out of
luck; there we are, you got the wrong address; no
recovery?
MR. MILLER: I think it's significant that
Congress did address the question of mailing of notices
of appeal. In 1994, it amended section 7266 and added a
subsection (c), which unfortunately is not reproduced in
the briefs, but that -- the effect of that is to give
the benefit of a mailbox rule so that a petition is
deemed filed on the day it is mailed, but only, quote,
"if the notice is properly addressed to the court." So
it's significant -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, in all these cases,
actually, that they've raised in the brief, the veteran
does get his appeal.
MR. MILLER: Well, no. In those cases, the
notice would not have been properly addressed to the
court. It would have been sent somewhere else and -
JUSTICE BREYER: So they could do it again.
MR. MILLER: And certainly -
JUSTICE BREYER: That's good.
MR. MILLER: And certainly one would hope
that the VA, you know, ideally would get those notices,
figure out what they are, and send them to the court.
The problem that the VA encounters is that it receives a
tremendous volume of mail, which is not generally opened
by attorneys, and it's often not clear when it gets
something in the mail that just says, you know, I don't
like the decision in my case, whether that's a notice of
appeal to the court or a motion for reconsideration or a
motion to file a new claim -
JUSTICE BREYER: These people in footnote 3,
did they get their appeal or didn't they?
MR. MILLER: They did not.
JUSTICE BREYER: They did not?
MR. MILLER: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. There's a problem.
MR. MILLER: Well, yes, and we -- we do not
deny -- and, in fact, it's true by definition -- that to
say that there is no equitable tolling is to say that
there will be cases in which the result is not
equitable. But -- and I think if you were to look at
just the cases like the ones Your Honor has identified,
some of the others in Petitioner's brief and in the
amicus briefs, and if you could identify with no
transaction costs what those cases are and were to ask,
as a policy matter, should there be -- should the late
filing be excused in those cases, I think just about
everyone would say yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And so if we're in a void
and the language doesn't have the exceptions -- and I
think you can distinguish it from these other cases, and
you have older cases that says unless Congress is clear,
read it as non-jurisdictional, and nobody could say it
was inequitable -- or rather to the contrary, nobody
could say it was equitable to follow your position here,
why isn't there a simple remedy? We take the opposite
position?
MR. MILLER: Well, I think there are two
answers to that, and the first is that whatever you
think of the rule in Bowles -- and we obviously believe
that it was correctly decided but understand that not
everyone takes that view -
JUSTICE BREYER: Except that for purposes of
this, it governs. I'm just looking at the parts of it
that did, in fact, make clear the special nature of the
particular provision at issue in that case.
MR. MILLER: But the -- the question of
whether a particular time limit is or is not
jurisdictional would seem to be a quintessential example
of the sort of issue where it is more important that the
law be settled than that it be settled any particular
way.
And the great virtue of the rule in Bowles
is that it provides clear guidance that appeal deadlines
are going to be presumed to be jurisdictional, and if
Congress doesn't want them to be, it can say so.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's really the only
thing that counsels your result, because in Reed you
took -- the Government took the position that a
statutory provision is non-jurisdictional if it does not
speak in jurisdictional terms and doesn't address the
power of the court. I understand that was the
Government's position in Reed.
Today you're saying that the only thing that
counsels your result is the fact that Congress used the
words "notice of appeal." Is that correct?
MR. MILLER: Yes. Our position is
consistent with what we said in Reed, because Reed, of
course, did not involve a time limit. Reed involved the
requirement that copyrights be registered before an
infringement action is brought. And what the Court said
in Reed is that the presence or absence of a
jurisdictional label on the statute is not
determinative. What's -- what matters is whether the
type of limitation that the statute imposes is one
that's properly ranked as jurisdictional, absent a
label. And if -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there any -- any
statute on the time to appeal? Has any statute been
held, quote, "jurisdictional" when there is no safety
valve of any kind written into it; that is, that -- on
2107, that extensions are possible? Is -- is there a,
quote, "jurisdictional" statute that says 121 days or
whatever, and that's it; no extension, no matter what
the circumstances are?
MR. MILLER: Yes. The Immigration and
Nationality Act at issue in Stone has no provision for
extensions. The Hobbs Act has no provision for
extensions. And many of the various agency-specific
statutes that I mentioned earlier don't have any
provisions for extensions. And although this Court
hasn't ruled on them, Petitioner hasn't identified any
decision from any court of appeals holding that any of
those statutes is not jurisdictional.
So there really is, as recognized in Bowles,
a uniform rule regarding time limits for the taking of
appeals and proceedings like appeals, writs of
certiorari and petitions for review.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What other acts do you
think would be swept up into a rule that we adopted
here, that not all limitations on appeal time are
jurisdictional? The Hobbs Act cases; what else?
MR. MILLER: The -- which ones would be
swept up, I suppose, depends on what the Court were to
say in distinguishing this case. But there's the Hobbs
Act, the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I'm sure we'd say
these are veterans, and I'm sure there -- there are
other categories of sympathetic people who might come
under the Hobbs Act.
MR. MILLER: There -- there might well be,
and I think that's why one of the virtues of the rule in
Bowles is that it provides clear guidance to Congress.
And in that respect, it's much preferable to a rule that
statutes of -- or statutes -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you haven't answered my
question.
MR. MILLER: Oh -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The Hobbs Act -
MR. MILLER: Well, the Hobbs Act, the
Federal Power Act, the Communications Act, various EPA
orders are reviewed under their specific -- each statute
has its own review procedure.
JUSTICE BREYER: All these agency matters
are matters where there has never been judicial input.
This is review of an agency action. The agency takes an
action. No judge has looked at this. And the first
time that you look at the rulemaking by the agency under
the Hobbs Act, I guess, is when you go file it in the -
in the court.
So if a -- if a ruling against you here were
to encompass a ruling under most review of agency
action, would that be such a terribly unworkable thing?
MR. MILLER: Well, I -- I suppose that the
Court could come up with a rule. Whether that would
prove to be workable, I -- I don't know. But I think --
I guess what I would say about that is that, given that
there is an inherent arbitrariness to any filing
deadline and, therefore, there is to some degree an
inevitable arbitrariness in any system of exceptions to
the filing deadline, I'm not -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why wouldn't it be a
bright, clear line if we said, court to court, Bowles
controls; agency to court, Bowles does not control?
That would be a clear line.
MR. MILLER: It would be clear, but it would
be contrary to Stone. It would be contrary to decades
of uniform holdings from courts of appeals under all the
other statutes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Stone was somewhat mixed,
though. It was a motion for reconsideration of the
agency, whether or not that tolled the time to go to the
court; am I correct?
MR. MILLER: That -- that's right, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's sort of a hybrid
problem in the context of Justice Ginsburg's dichotomy.
MR. MILLER: But -- I mean, you're right
that that was the issue in Bowles, but -- excuse me, in
Stone, but the reason that that mattered in Stone was
because the Court held that the timely filing of a
petition for review in compliance with the statute was a
prerequisite to the exercise of jurisdiction by the
court of appeals.
JUSTICE BREYER: Cases -- what was the other
case that you said decades -- what is an example of a
case where a person, for an incredible, equitable strong
reason, such as the wind blew his paper -- I don't
know -- some tremendously equitable, strong reason he
wants review of an agency action -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The dog ate it, maybe.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Right. The dog ate
the court, and the -- the -- there is a case which says
there is no extension of a -- of a deadline to file for
review of an agency action, no matter how equitable your
case? Which is our -- which is the Supreme Court case
that holds that? I -- I am not familiar with it.
MR. MILLER: I don't know one in the
specific context of agency actions, but, of course -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I'm only talking
about agency actions, judicial review of agency action.
MR. MILLER: If -- if the time limit is
jurisdictional as the -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I know the rule, but
I'm just saying -
MR. MILLER: There is no authority -
JUSTICE BREYER: I know the rule. I'm
saying what's the case? Stone -- I understand you can
make a case of Stone. Is there another?
MR. MILLER: I -- I don't know of any from
this Court, but, of course, in the courts of appeals,
Petitioner hasn't identified any in which an exception
was made.
And then I would point out that Bowles -- in
Bowles, the petitioner had a very sympathetic equitable
claim in that he had done what the district court told
him to do and filed on the schedule given to him by the
district court, and the Court nonetheless held that
because the time limit was jurisdictional, there was no
authority to create an exception to it.
If there are no further questions, we ask
that the judgment be affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Blatt, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. BLATT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Let me just point out on the Hobbs Act, the
actual statute says the jurisdiction is invoked by
filing a timely petition for review. So there's an
express jurisdictional hook. And I think Justice Scalia
points out an interesting fact on -- I think it's safe
to say, in 1988, Congress wasn't sitting down thinking
is this deadline jurisdictional; they're subject to
equitable tolling.
What we had is a period where veterans were
not given judicial review. We had World War II and the
Vietnam conflict and the Korean conflict, which made it
just untenable that veterans were not being treated on
par with other claimants seeking disability benefits.
And the sponsor of the bill points out, since Social
Security disability benefits get judicial review, how
can we not treat our nation's veterans the same?
Now -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I want to
clear up this represent -- represented business.
MS. BLATT: Sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understood you to
say in the -- your opening that represented -- most of
these people are not represented, and they're -- to the
extent the American Legion participates, they don't get
notice of the order that triggers the 120 days.
Now, I understood Mr. Miller to tell us that
80 percent of the people have registered representatives
and they do get notice.
MS. BLATT: Right. I think you correctly
understand that we have a different understanding of
reality. So my understanding is that representation
is -- like the -- Mr. Henderson's wife at one point
tried to become his authorized representative. There is
no question he had somebody helping him, a veteran's
service organization process.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MS. BLATT: This can take up to 4 or 5
years -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MS. BLATT: -- to get notice. My -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Was that person
helping him registered as a representative?
MS. BLATT: No, not that I know of. But
this is not -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, is that the
exception, then? I mean, Mr. Miller tells us 80 percent
of the people do have registered representatives.
MS. BLATT: Right. I understand, and I'm
just telling you that my understanding from not only
just the amici briefs, that they do not have anything to
deal with the court, is that the veterans organizations
don't have notice. They are the ones that are filing in
this case telling you that this decision will be
disastrous for them. But even if they do, they are
uncounseled. They are not lawyers.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it won't be disastrous
if they can ask to be registered.
MS. BLATT: I agree. But these are -- the
veterans' service -- like in this case, where he lives
in North Carolina, there's only, like, 50 VA regional
offices. So his representative may be 100, 200 miles
away, and there's not that kind of connection. But if
the case comes -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It doesn't matter
how far away they are if he gets notice.
MS. BLATT: They don't -- I understand, and
I'm just -- my understanding is that they either -- they
don't get notice, and even if they have notice, they
have -- feel no obligation, because they're not in a
representative capacity at that point, that they would
process his appeal or advise him.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why give them notice?
I mean, isn't the very giving of -- of notice -
MS. BLATT: Right. And I -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- an indication that they
are expected to do something?
MS. BLATT: And I understand the Government
representing that there's notice, and I'm telling you
that is not my understanding; that when he said
authorized representative, I don't think that that meant
veterans service organization. I may be wrong. It
sounds like we have a different understanding.
But if I can get back on to what is really
before this Court, is that when there's no indication,
all we have is the three words "notice of appeal" when
we know that those three words are non-jurisdictional in
the criminal context, that there's nothing
jurisdictional about the word "notice of appeal." It
accurately describes that an appeal is going on. It
doesn't say anything about whether the deadline is
jurisdiction.
And the question is: Was Congress thinking
about the type of people who appeal district courts to
courts of appeals? Yes, they were, but they made
separate provisions for that. Or were they thinking
about the Hobbs Act, which deals with licensing of
nuclear power plants and orders by the FCC, and has an
express statement in the text that it's jurisdictional?
I doubt that -- I think it is safe to say
that Congress was not thinking about any of those
contexts. They were trying to give veterans their day
in court. And this decision would say no matter what
the circumstances are, they are deprived.
Now, there was some discussion on the
120-day deadline. I think another thing that is very
safe to say is that time is not of the essence in the
veterans system. It never has been. One hundred and
twenty days is a blink of an eye. It's true that Social
Security are given 60 days and other appellants are
given 30.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you helped or hurt in
making that argument when this is not de novo review? I
think you're helped. If it's not de novo review, that
helps -
MS. BLATT: Yes, there's no prejudice. They
don't even -- the Government doesn't even contest these
because it has to be based on the record before, and all
we're talking about is an extra 30 days or 60 days.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
54:5 25:8,23,25 27:6 Article 27:14,14,15 benefits 3:13 4:3
31:6 35:10,11 agency-specific 57:6,20,23,24 58:3 assumed 39:7 3:7,9 4:5,13 5:1,16
36:14 49:17 appealed 33:5 assumes 11:7,12 5:21,24 6:25 7:10
50:5,9,13 aggrieved 35:17 appealing 6:7,21 assuming 44:14 7:14 8:2,8,18,22
agree 56:18 11:20 32:5,10 ate 52:24,25 10:5 11:3,18 12:1
54:11 58:6 agreed-upon 31:19 appeals 3:16 6:8,22 attention 30:8 12:6,9 13:5,8,14
23:24 29:18 ALITO 9:20 20:2 21:25 27:4,9,21 authority 53:14 54:3 18:4,8,22 19:5,12
48:24 51:4,5 25:21 38:10,25 28:8,19,22,24 30:1 authorized 1:3 38:22 19:15,17,20 20:4
52:23 53:3,9 allow 24:18 36:10 32:23 35:9 49:21 55:18 57:15 20:13,18 21:6,15
39:2 43:20
48:14
appellate 6:12 9:3 42:12 57:18 blink 12:10 58:18
14:18 16:3
31:8
6:13 appreciate 15:25 Bar's 44:25 8:13,20 21:8,23
7:1,16,20,25 Arbaugh 20:14 based 59:2 22:1 25:14 27:2,7
25:3 29:1
9:3,4,5 21:12,16 basically 26:13 27:13 28:1,5,11,14
10:6 arbitrariness 51:16 behalf 1:18,22 2:4,7 28:19 29:5 34:21
11:10 12:4,5 51:18 2:10 3:8 26:24 35:4,21 36:8,9,9
13:3,23 argument 1:15 2:2,5 54:9 36:19 37:8,16,17
47:18 48:6 32:8 35:1 38:16 26:3 43:2 44:25 commenced 14:23 contains 3:18
50:16 51:21 39:9 40:22 42:9,20 circuits 26:6 29:19 contend 4:6
52:12 53:22 46:11 47:24 50:8 Circuit's 3:11 25:14 commencing 30:1 contest 59:1
52:19,20 53:1,4,4 circumstances 11:8 Communications context 5:3,6,7,8,10
34:9,13 11:9 14:17,23 19:5 28:8 43:17 16:12 23:25 25:3,7
36:23 37:21 20:24 23:23 25:15 civil 5:15,20 6:6 complaint 14:24 29:6 34:15 37:2,4
45:20 46:1,3 28:9 31:20 32:18 22:22 25:1 29:18 29:20 30:3 41:3,7 52:10 53:7 57:22
47:7 33:4,8 35:9,10 30:2 41:11 contexts 32:14
51:2 52:18 39:19 41:14 45:1 claim 35:19 43:3,22 completely 9:12 58:11
53:8,12,15 45:20,23 46:23,25 46:13 53:24 24:11 contrary 42:4 47:12
45:21 47:1 52:18 39:16 42:19,22 concepts 12:24 control 51:22
56:10 cause 6:9 22:24 22:21 24:9 33:1 54:21 copy 39:11,16 40:14
cert 22:2 44:6,20 claimant-friendly 6:15 7:2,7,24 8:24 48:19 52:6
30:1 39:3 Chief 3:3,9 15:24 20:14 45:12 47:10 48:9 16:7
20:11,16,20 21:10 closely 5:6 58:2,10 country 15:15 30:22
10:16 17:13 chose 30:1 42:1 40:5 56:23 constitutional 43:8 5:3,8 6:7,8,9,19,21
19:23 26:4,9 Circuit 4:24 5:2 6:19 coming 16:19 construed 20:9 6:22 7:2,21 8:12
30:14 11:17 13:14 22:17 commence 30:2 contain 23:4 8:22 9:13,13 10:7
11:2,5,11,16 32:9 decided 32:19 43:12 disabilities 26:4 effort 16:3
13:4,7,23 cuts 37:23,24,25 47:19 disability 3:12 10:21 either 10:13 12:19
14:24 15:2 cutting 15:25 decision 3:11,15 4:7 10:24 14:22 15:16 57:2
16:12,14 4:14,14 5:4,23 24:14 26:6 29:8,10 Elsevier 8:8 20:13
18:11,17 D 6:19 8:9 11:21 54:23,25 emphasize 36:5
D 1:20 2:6 3:1 26:23 12:12 13:15 15:6 disabled 3:22 4:2 emphasized 28:5
22:17 23:2 date 28:3 38:18 17:14 19:14 25:5,7 25:22 38:6
DAVID 1:4 25:12,15,24 28:21 disastrous 56:14,16 emphasizing 38:3
25:2,8 26:13 day 3:23 24:6,21 33:22 38:11,18 discretion 44:3 en 13:15 25:15
25:2 30:15,24 39:4 41:23 42:9 discussion 58:14 enact 16:15
44:12 45:17 58:11 46:11 49:21 56:13 disorganized 26:15 enacted 36:19
29:8 days 11:24 12:2,11 58:12 dispositive 4:12 encompass 51:10
12:17,21 14:6 decisions 7:15 8:11 distinction 4:21 8:17 encounters 46:7
31:16 22:10 23:17 25:23 25:6 31:8,18 42:4 41:20,20 engrained 41:21
33:7 26:18 36:22 37:11 deemed 45:17 distinguish 47:9 ensure 24:6
35:1,3 38:13,16,17 44:1,5 defendant 42:5 distinguishing 50:8 entire 12:11 31:12
37:4 38:6 44:6,9,14 49:11 defendants 22:21 district 6:7,9,21 entirely 16:25
43:1 45:3,18 55:10 58:18,19 definition 46:21 10:7 11:20 13:24 entitled 24:7 31:23
46:6,12 59:3,3 degree 51:17 14:24 15:2,5 21:24 43:16
49:19,21 de 58:22,23 delivered 39:8 27:20 28:12 29:8 environmental
51:8,13,21,21 deadline 3:16,19,22 deny 46:21 29:16,22 32:23 35:12
52:6,14,17 3:24 6:8 9:15,17 Department 1:21 53:24 54:1 58:3 EPA 50:24
54:1 15:9 16:17 22:15 10:9 doctor 26:10,12 episodes 26:13
56:11 57:19 23:15 24:4,24,24 depends 50:7 doctors 19:25 equally 20:8 25:1
28:20 30:17,25 deprived 58:13 document 41:8 equitable 9:18 12:19
38:4 41:17 45:6 determination 9:21 dog 52:24,25 16:23 25:20 26:3
36:10 52:1 54:17 57:25 58:15 determinative 49:2 dollar 33:23 34:11 52:20,22 53:3,23
58:3,4 deadlines 12:23 determine 8:6 donut 33:24 34:10 54:18
18:2 21:21 37:18 38:8 41:15 dichotomy 52:10 DORETHA 1:3 26:23
36:15 38:7 41:17 48:7 dictate 10:17 doubt 58:9 erred 3:16
44:10 deal 26:8 56:11 difference 7:7 14:25 drop 17:7,11 error 7:18 22:8
28:14 37:1,1 41:18 55:15 D.C 1:11,18,21 essence 58:16
57:22 52:19 26:16 earlier 19:15 41:1 established 7:8
48:2 52:19 factors 37:10 38:1 first 3:4,18,23 4:16 44:4,13,17 48:10 handwritten 26:17
36:17 familiar 53:5 34:10 36:13 47:17 give 9:19 11:16 37:4 happened 40:21
54:3 56:6 far 19:12 22:5 56:25 51:5 42:12 45:15 57:7 happens 20:2 38:10
35:25 36:1,3 favored 15:14 follow 6:20 11:18 given 12:11 33:2 harsh 16:16 43:13
37:5,22 FCC 58:7 13:12 47:13 37:4 39:25 51:15 hear 3:3
47:8 51:18 features 10:20 following 36:8 53:25 54:20 58:19 heavily 26:19
30:18,25 Federal 3:11 4:4,24 forecloses 3:12 gives 33:7 36:21 28:22 34:21 35:2
feel 57:4 forum 6:14 13:19 51:7 52:5 Henderson 1:3,5 3:4
fellow 41:25 fought 15:15 26:5 29:23 historical 5:10 8:21
36:16 23:1,2 25:22,25 29:25 government 10:10 36:14 49:16 50:5,8
43:25 46:13 51:7 53:2 54:4 48:12 57:12 59:1 54:11 58:6
53:2 filed 13:24 14:24 future 23:4 Government's 11:7 hold 23:18 24:1
45:3,17 53:25 G 43:16 48:16 49:21
16:19 26:19 23:10 24:14 29:19 general 1:21 28:8 greater 44:20 Honor 38:15 39:23
47:5 getting 10:24 51:7,15 hook 54:14
36:1 41:16 28:21 42:9 22:4 25:11,13 H hurdle 4:6
47:23 48:18 find 4:20 23:6 27:19 28:10,25 29:21 H 1:3 hurt 58:21
53:20 interestingly 6:25 49:22 50:5 53:11 17:20 25:5 legalese 14:2
36:14 49:14 28:20 48:22 8:19 9:20 10:25 know 5:18 11:25 liberally 20:9
Irwin 13:16 34:21 15:24 16:6,24 17:6 23:21 28:2 29:14 27:5,7,7 28:6,23
24:7 29:18 33:25 34:4 36:18 19:2,7,15,18 20:2 42:14 43:3 46:5,10 limitation 8:13 28:1
26:25 27:10,11,12 known 7:7 28:7 49:24
judge 51:5 L
32:1,15 LISA 1:18 2:3,9 3:7
33:15 57:10 judicial 3:12 31:6,7 36:23 37:21 38:10 49:5 litigant 6:13,18,20
51:3 53:9 54:20,25 38:25 39:11,18,22 lack 4:18 10:18 13:19,22 24:23
37:2 46:24 43:15 44:9 52:11 missing 18:14 9:25 10:6,16 12:20 open 10:21 37:9,9
56:6 57:8 mistake 18:24 13:2,22 14:25 opened 46:8
47:22 meant 7:12 57:15 mixed 52:3 22:25 23:22 25:23 opinion 45:7
13:1 14:2 mental 12:22 26:3,6 52:4 41:14,16,17 44:21 order 10:9 35:17
mention 7:20 22:15 45:18,24 46:11 55:10
38:14 45:9 mentioned 28:15,16 N 2:1,1 3:1 56:12,25 57:3,3,7 ordinary 30:14 39:8
37:10 49:18 narrow 33:12,24,25 57:8,13,20,23 organic 10:13
met 45:5 nature 47:23 notion 36:2 organizations 18:10
39:17 45:17 26:22,23,25 27:22 necessarily 32:13 novo 58:22,23 ought 33:25 34:1
33:1 35:5,8,16 36:12 neither 4:13 O page 2:2 26:5 44:24
47:4 49:12 44:8,16,19 45:11 17:1 obviously 26:19 paranoid 26:10
56:24 58:12 45:23 46:2,4,16,18 non-adversarial 47:18 part 32:11,20,21
46:20 47:16,25 4:16 office 12:13 33:2,5 participate 18:11,16
9:7 10:10 56:6 normal 32:23 older 47:10 48:1,4
13:2 16:9,25 mind 12:15 13:20 normally 17:23 once 17:7 24:21 parts 47:22
22:8 25:5 41:13 North 56:20 38:13 party 6:10 24:25,25
29:22 31:15 minutes 54:7 note 26:17 ones 46:25 50:6 29:19 35:17
34:1,6,9 misleading 14:17,19 notice 6:10 7:16,25 56:12 passed 6:1 7:8 21:5
40:1,2,2 42:8 misses 44:9 8:20,23,23 9:6,23 one-line 41:8 44:22 22:9 35:2
46:14 50:12 22:20 25:14 31:9 procedural 22:14 21:12 23:9 33:25 Reed 8:8 20:13
56:7 58:3 38:13 43:16 47:13 procedure 6:12 42:16 43:9,19 48:11,16,21,21,22
32:4,9,20 possible 49:10 51:1 55:19 58:2 reference 9:14
39:20,23 post-traumatic procedures 11:22 questions 54:4 referred 29:18
55:12 56:6 30:22 proceeding 4:16 quintessential 48:2 regarding 49:24
potentially 26:1 proceedings 9:2 quote 26:12 45:17 33:5 56:20
43:25 54:19 48:15 50:24 58:7 19:25 32:11 55:20 R 56:2,7,17
40:3,12 predecessors 22:7 profoundly 25:22 rank 3:25 15:9 related 27:24,25
56:1 preferable 50:17 properly 45:18,24 ranked 49:4 relationship 17:16
44:11,20 58:25 prospective 20:21 read 7:11 8:13 14:3 relevant 35:22,23
52:15 54:13 premise 37:15 prospectively 21:3 14:5 36:3,10 47:11 relied 16:12,14 39:7
3:8 49:20 prescribed 6:21 prove 51:14 14:4 34:2 36:10 rely 43:14
54:9 presence 48:25 provides 48:7 50:16 reaffirmed 27:2,7 relying 7:15
47:1 16:17 23:5 33:20 36:15 reality 55:16 remanded 32:20
37:17 38:8 49:19 58:5 reasonable 34:16 22:5
18:14 21:15 prevents 3:13 10:24 purely 15:4 54:8 represent 55:4
27:25 32:1 24:14 purport 5:4 recall 26:16 28:16 representation
35:22 41:1 pre-existing 21:8 purpose 8:6 10:22 received 39:2 55:16
53:22 54:11 Principi 26:4 24:11 34:15 receives 46:7 representative 1:4
57:5 principle 28:24 purposes 24:5 47:21 recognized 13:17 38:23,24 39:12,16
pro 18:2 41:6 reconsideration 55:18 56:2,21 57:5
55:12 56:7 24:19 25:14,16,25 13:3,5,22 17:17 sends 13:6,6 58:18
34:7,9 37:12 38:25 39:15 40:6 46:10 21:14 29:14 31:15 somebody 18:6 19:8
57:13 43:2,4,19 44:6,8 54:12 sensible 7:24 someplace 19:10
48:23 rise 5:12 12:4,7,25 13:6,10 separate 6:17 9:12 25:3 48:3 52:9
27:13,23 31:14 50:2,10,19,22 service-connected sovereign 42:6
26:24 39:24 54:6 55:3,6 57:10 set 4:10 11:19 18:12 21:18 48:14
7:24 8:4,5,7,8 schizophrenic 26:11 Shinseki 1:8 3:5 specialized 27:17
44:2 41:13,24 44:10 14:16 16:20 significant 27:25 36:18
49:24 50:3,15,17 29:12 36:19 38:17 45:11,19 stage 16:2
9:3 10:15 ruling 51:9,10 16:12 22:21 25:6 single-spaced 14:1 started 41:3
23:24 25:8 running 38:16 26:7 29:6,8 41:2 sister 26:5 statement 5:3 8:11
28:21 Russell 4:7 27:2 54:25 58:19 sitting 17:12 28:12 20:7,12 58:8
31:6 see 10:12 14:1,1 54:16 States 1:1,15 11:20
32:14 S 19:7 21:15 23:23 situation 6:12 12:18 11:21 13:16 31:12
50:1 51:1 S 1:18 2:1,3,9 3:1,7 34:11 37:3 39:4 13:11,17 23:1 40:5 statistically 32:6
52:15,23 54:8 seek 35:17 situations 10:9 statistics 18:2 31:15
54:13,20,25 safe 54:15 58:9,16 seeking 3:23 10:21 28:17 statues 21:4
safety 6:4 49:8 15:16 24:9 43:18 slack 32:10 statute 3:18 4:11 5:5
12:6 16:5 53:13,16 seen 44:24 22:21 25:6 26:7 10:14 12:1,8 14:13
19:17,20 22:8 says 8:9 9:10 11:18 send 46:6 29:6,8 41:2 54:24 20:14 21:13 22:10
36:6,10 swept 50:3,7 thing 16:11 29:9 11:9 23:1 44:18 U
39:7 43:21 swoop 31:10 31:2 36:23 37:22 52:14 54:13 ultimately 42:15
sympathetic 50:12 37:24 48:11,17 times 26:15 unanimous 8:9
52:15 54:12 53:23 51:11 58:15 tired 20:24 unanimously 16:13
34:23 35:10 syndrome 30:23 think 5:3,9 7:14 8:22 Today 48:17 uncounseled 3:23
36:13 37:1 45:2 9:16,22 10:5 13:25 told 13:12 53:24 11:12 14:4 16:8
41:18 49:18 system 4:4 15:19,22 14:12 15:7,23 tolled 52:5 56:15
50:18,18 16:2,19,20,22 16:22 17:23 18:13 tolling 9:19 12:19 undeliverable 38:12
18:12 22:23 24:23 21:16,16,19 22:19 13:10,17 15:10 undermine 24:4
30:8,12 31:3 32:12 46:22 54:18 41:19
28:7 34:22 T 2:1,1 34:6,18 39:6,20 touch 17:20 14:14 15:1 21:11
48:13 table 27:24 40:20 41:12,15 tough 20:5 32:5,8 47:19 48:15
51:25 52:3 taken 34:1 50:3,15 51:14 treated 21:1 24:9 understanding
53:16,17 takes 29:12,16 30:5 54:14,15 55:14 54:22 44:10 55:15,16
18:5,6 20:12 27:20 54:16 58:2,5,10 tremendous 46:8 43:9 55:6,11
talks 5:15 third 4:1 tried 55:18 unfortunately 45:14
54:17 55:11 20:21 27:25 31:2,4 true 15:18,21 28:4 unique 10:20
59:5,7 19:9 40:3 56:9,13 34:17 35:22,23 58:18 11:21 13:16 31:12
44:23 45:7 test 8:5 23:3,6 26:20 27:3 36:12 47:16
37:19,22 58:8 35:1 37:11,25 type 3:24 4:15 5:12 v 1:7 3:4 4:7 13:16
38:1 40:24 54:6,10 59:4 48:1,22 49:7,24 15:8 24:3 49:3 35:5
50:10,11 theoretical 41:19 50:4 51:6 52:5 58:3 VA 13:7 14:10 17:7
theory 42:6 53:10 54:2 58:16 types 20:7 23:23 17:12,16 18:12
46:5,7 56:20 W wouldn't 16:15 14:6 22:10 25:23 54 2:10
20:25 23:18
writ 7:18 22:8 25:24 27:5 58:15 59:3
37:4 38:1
15:21 17:4 18:2
40:15
12:11,21,22 52:23 written 6:3 8:10 36:1 16 44:24
38:19,19
16:21 War 54:20 36:2,7 37:23 49:9 180 12:2
39:15
19:24 Washington 1:11,18 wrong 3:15 6:14 1988 21:7 31:4 35:6
9:14
24:21 25:21 1:21 13:19 14:15 18:25 54:16
45:13
38:14 39:3,3 wasn't 7:9 36:19 19:4 23:2 38:11 1991 36:20
27:5 38:17
41:7,24 45:1 43:16 45:1 54:16 45:3,4,9 57:16 1994 45:13
6:24 11:15
way 16:1 24:9 33:5 wrote 26:17 33:18
7292(a) 6:17
4:2,3 6:18 9:4 200 56:21
10:17,21 11:2 X 2006 16:9
x 1:2,10 2010 1:12
14:14 X-rays 34:18 2101 22:4 28:15
15:12,15,17 2101(c) 22:3 9
16:3,8 17:3 2107 6:3 11:22 22:1 9 26:5 33:6
18:1,9,11 22:16 24:25 28:6,9 90 44:6,9
27:15 32:7 years 17:13,21
19:13,19 28:15 36:19 49:10 91 44:12
47:7 59:3 25:17,18,19 55:23
22:17 24:8,22 2344 10:14
27:6,18 29:2 26 2:7
31:6,7,16,20 28 6:2 10:14 11:22
Z
32:5 33:6 wife 19:24 55:17 Zipes 12:2 16:15 3
43:1 50:11 willing 24:17 3 2:4 17:13,21 46:14
55:1 win 31:16,20,22,23 À
12:16 44:25
57:16 31:24 32:3,5,9 à 23:25 58:20 59:3
34:3
34 32:20
29:10 55:19 word 5:25 7:16,24 09-1036 1:6 3:4 4
57:23 55:22
40 45:1
11:24 12:11,21
