IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
FRANTZ DePIERRE, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-1533
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, February 28, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:09 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ANDREW J. PINCUS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ANDREW J. PINCUS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ANDREW J. PINCUS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:09 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 09-1533, DePierre v.
United States.
Mr. Pincus.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW J. PINCUS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. PINCUS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The question in this case is whether the
dramatically harsher mandatory minimum penalty for what
the statute terms cocaine base applies to all offenses
involving cocaine or only those involving substances
with the characteristics of crack cocaine. In its brief
in the Kimbrough case, the government described the
provision at issue here as reflecting Congress's
determination that, and I'm quoting, "crimes involving
crack should be subject to considerably more severe
penalties." We agree.
Congress's targeting of a limited subset of
the substances qualifying chemically as -- as cocaine is
manifest in the statutory structure, in the language,
for three basic reasons. And I'm going to be looking at
page 2 of our blue brief, which has the relevant
statutory provision.
First, the only way to give different
meaning to two distinct terms that Congress used in the
statute -- "cocaine" on the one hand and "cocaine base"
on the other -- is to make clear that cocaine base means
something different than all substances with the
chemical formula C17H21NO4.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Pincus, if -- if I
understand your interpretation correctly, it would
exclude freebase. How is that a sensible interpretation
of the statute, one that would exclude freebase, a
commonly known substance? Congress was aware of it.
The Richard Pryor incident had occurred. Everybody knew
it was dangerous. Wasn't it at least true that Congress
meant to incorporate that substance as well?
MR. PINCUS: Let me answer -- answer your
question with a little bit of detail, Justice Kagan,
because I think our reply brief wasn't as clear as it
might have been, because the word "freebase" has,
really, three different meanings. It means a
manufacturing process; it means a method of use of a
cocaine-related substance; and it also means a
substance.
So just to be clear: Freebase, the
manufacturing process, occurs when cocaine
hydrochloride, the powder form of cocaine, is mixed with
ether and ammonia in a very volatile mixture and boiled.
Most -- many users of freebase inhale the fumes that are
released during that manufacturing process. That
process is very dangerous, as the Richard Pryor incident
showed, because the substance is quite volatile and will
explode. If that process -- if the substance is not
used then, but goes to the very end, when all of the
liquids are boiled off, then it does produce a rock-like
substance similar to crack cocaine.
Our submission is that the -- if the
substance is permitted to go to the end, and if, in
effect, ether and ammonia are used as a substitute for
sodium bicarbonate, then the substance does qualify
under the statute, because it is a rock-like substance
that has -- is chemically cocaine, and was produced in a
method similar to the reacting of sodium bicarbonate
with baking soda.
But in -- when the process is in the middle
of the production process, we don't think Congress meant
to reach that for a couple of reasons. First of all,
because that was -- is -- that substance is not
something that's easily marketable. And one of the key
things that Congress was concerned about was the
marketability of crack cocaine in its rock-like form.
That's what made the really big difference.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Pincus, if the -- the
substance that is involved in this case was a rock-like
substance and it wasn't a powder. So why doesn't it
belong? It's a rock-like substance. Why should it be
outside the category cocaine base?
MR. PINCUS: Well, I think there would be a
factual question in this case. None of the courts
below, Justice Ginsburg, determined whether, in fact,
this -- the substance at issue in this case was crack
cocaine, because the district court ruled that that
wasn't necessary, that all chemical -- as long as the
substance chemically qualified as cocaine, it satisfied
the statutory requirement, and the First Circuit agreed.
So in this case, there -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Correct me if am I wrong
about this -- I may have a misimpression -- but I
thought you were objecting to a charge to the jury that
charged cocaine base and didn't charge crack.
MR. PINCUS: We're -- we're objecting to
the -- the fact that the district judge charged the jury
and himself determined that in order for this very
severe 100-to-1 penalty to apply, it was not necessary
for the substance to qualify as crack cocaine. All it
had to do was to be a chemical form of cocaine.
JUSTICE ALITO: If we agree with you, how
should a judge instruct a jury to determine whether a
substance is crack? Should the judge use the definition
in the sentencing guidelines?
MR. PINCUS: A judge could use the
definition in the sentencing guidelines, Your Honor.
Let me just say, as a threshold question, in many cases
this won't be a jury question.
JUSTICE ALITO: But in those -
MR. PINCUS: In those cases, we think there
are three -- there are three elements. One is the
substance has to qualify chemically as cocaine. The
second is it was prepared by processing cocaine
hydrochloride with sodium bicarbonate or with a
different reactant that produces a similar chemical
effect. And third, that it's a rock-like or otherwise
solid, that is smokeable, that is able to produce the
inhalable vapors. We think those are the key -
JUSTICE ALITO: It has to have all three of
those characteristics?
MR. PINCUS: All three of those
characteristics.
JUSTICE ALITO: But I thought you just said
that freebase would qualify, and freebase would not have
the second of those characteristics; isn't that right?
It was -- it would not be prepared using a base?
MR. PINCUS: It would, because ammonia is
one of the -- is one of -- it's ammonia and ether that
have -- that are used to prepare freebase.
JUSTICE ALITO: So if it had any base?
MR. PINCUS: Any base. We are -- the lower
courts, in applying the sentencing guidelines
definition, have said that sodium bicarbonate is not
required. We think it is not required. They've
recognized other substances, and we think as long as the
process is similar, that that's what the sentencing
guidelines capture, that's what the statute captures.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that. I
can understand the argument that -- that Congress was -
was directing its statute at crack, and crack had -- had
a very definite meaning, which didn't include any
substance that -- that is rock-hard and has been
produced in the manner you suggest.
You're coming up -- you're urging upon us a
definition that neither is the definition of crack nor
is the chemical definition of cocaine base. It's
neither fish nor fowl.
MR. PINCUS: Well, respectfully, Justice
Scalia, I think that Congress was focused on crack.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Crack.
MR. PINCUS: Because it -- because it was a
substance that had particular characteristics.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right. But you
don't argue that. That's not the meaning you want us to
give it.
MR. PINCUS: Well, we do -- we do want the
meaning to be a substance with those particular
characteristics. I think the only question that
we're -- that we're debating is whether baking -- the
use of baking soda is essential, because all of those
other -- those other three characteristics are
characteristics of crack.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's essential to crack.
MR. PINCUS: Well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You wouldn't call it crack
if it weren't made that way, would you?
MR. PINCUS: Well, I think in 1986, the
definitions were not that clear. And I think the
sentencing commission has said, and certainly the lower
courts have said, both in applying the limited
definition of the statute for which we contend and also
in interpreting the sentencing guidelines, that the use
of a different base gets at what Congress -- is still a
category of substance that Congress -- Congress cared
about.
Obviously, if the Court would like to
construe the statute more narrowly and say baking soda
is required, we wouldn't object to that. But we think
that Congress -- one of the reasons that Congress used
the term "cocaine base" was that it was trying to
capture a category of substances that had particular
characteristics and wasn't focused so much on the exact
chemical formula that went into it, because Congress
knew, in the drug area, it would -
JUSTICE SCALIA: How does "cocaine base"
suggest what you want? It has to be -- it has to be
rock and it has to be base cocaine produced in one of
the fashions you suggested. I don't know how "cocaine
base" remotely suggests that.
MR. PINCUS: Well, I think in -- in three
ways, Your Honor. First of all, because Congress didn't
use the term "cocaine," which is used elsewhere in the
provision, it clearly meant a subset. It didn't mean
all of the -- all of the substances with the chemical
formula that satisfies the chemical term "cocaine."
Second of all, the statute shows just by the
100-to-1 ratio that Congress was focused on something
that was especially dangerous, much more dangerous than
powder.
Third, the legislative context was, as the
Court said in Kimbrough, that this was a statute that
was enacted in response to a particular problem, and I
think the question we're debating is: Would Congress
have said, when it defined the term -- when it defined
the term "cocaine base" -- and I should say, "base" was
one of the street terms, colloquial terms, that was used
at the time to -- to describe these categories of
substances.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All of them or just crack?
MR. PINCUS: It was -- "freebase" was a
word. "Base" was a word. "Crack" was a word. The -
the legislative debate didn't distinguish necessarily
the chemical -- the chemical process for creating the
substance. What it focused on was a substance that had
characteristics that had led to the epidemic that
Congress was concerned with, and those characteristics
were easy marketability, because it was a solid,
incredibly strong addictive potential, and inhalability.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, the
provision refers to "a mixture or substance which
contains cocaine base." You read cocaine base to be
crack, so you have to be talking about a mixture or
substance which contains crack. What contains crack?
Crack is the problem they're getting at; yet the
statute, as you read it, has to talk about a substance
which contains crack, not just crack.
MR. PINCUS: Yes, Your Honor, and we think
the reason that Congress used that phrase was often in
this reactive process at the end of the day the rock
will not be pure cocaine in a rock form. There may be
some cocaine hydrochloride that didn't react with the
base. There may be -- then there often is some of the
base reacting -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's kind of an odd
way for Congress -- it's an odd way for Congress to
phrase the provision if what they want to get at is
crack, to say what we want to get at is substance which
contained crack. That suggests to me, when you talk
about substances that contain something, what they
contain is a base that then is used in the substance. I
think that's a harder, harder logic to apply when you're
talking about crack. They want to stop the use of
crack, not so much -- it wouldn't occur naturally that
they're talking about substances which contain crack.
It would occur naturally, that language formulation, if
you think of cocaine base as broader than just crack.
MR. PINCUS: Respectfully, I disagree, Mr.
Chief Justice. The provision just above large Roman
numeral IV talks about compounds and mixtures, and
Congress is sensitive in crafting the drug laws that
often, because these substances are not prepared in a
chemistry lab, there are many, many impurities
associated with them. For example, even cocaine
hydrochloride, cocaine powder, is not pure cocaine
hydrochloride. It's often diluted, it's often cut with
other impurities. And so in all -- throughout the drug
laws Congress has used that and we think that's exactly
why it used a similar phrase here, because the crack
rock does not contain 100 percent chemical cocaine in a
rock-like form. There will be cocaine powder often,
cocaine hydrochloride left. There will be baking soda
left or the other reactant, and so it will be a mass of
substances, and Congress needed that language to avoid
defendants saying: This substance is not 100 percent
cocaine in a crack form and therefore I don't qualify
under (iii) .
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You kind of elided
the point there in your verbal formulation. It's easier
to say this is something that's not just cocaine. It's
harder to say this is something which is not just crack
because crack is a type of cocaine. You can say it
contains, as the government says, cocaine base.
MR. PINCUS: I may be missing your point,
Your Honor, but I think even cocaine in a crack form has
other -- the rock that Congress was trying to get at has
other things in it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you're saying
Congress is afraid that the sodium bicarbonate, we might
not be able to get at that if we just say crack?
MR. PINCUS: No, that the defendant, that
the defendant would say this -- if it doesn't, if it
didn't say a mixture which contains, if it said cocaine
base, then the argument might well be, you have to -
you have to distill the substance to find out how much
cocaine base is actually in it, as opposed to how much
of it actually is cocaine in a rock form, as opposed to
other things have been mixed in, instead of, as this
Court decided in Chapman, it's the whole package that
one weighs.
And so I think Congress was getting at the
idea that it didn't want people to either avoid the
falling within clause (iii) entirely or trying to
escape the 50-gram crack threshold by saying there are
other things in here that you have to take out before
you, before you can impose this penalty on me.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -
JUSTICE ALITO: Other than crack and free
base, are there other forms of cocaine base that are
actually in use in any substantial amounts in this
country by drug users?
MR. PINCUS: Well, I think we don't know,
Your Honor. There are -- certainly cocaine leaves can
be in the country, and under the government's definition
of the statute cocaine leaves would qualify under clause
(iii) . Cocoa paste -- coca paste can be imported into
the country. There are cases like that.
JUSTICE ALITO: Are there actually people in
the United States who are smoking coca, coca paste? I
thought that that was exclusive to South America.
MR. PINCUS: They may not be smoking it,
Your Honor, but they may be bringing it into the country
in that form and then converting it into -
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you aware of cases where
that's happened?
MR. PINCUS: There are -- the case that we
point to regarding the cocaine that was intermingled in
luggage and in the fiberglass of a flowerpot are both
cases where it was not cocaine hydrochloride, it was
cocaine. So it was either coca paste or some later,
more distilled form of chemical cocaine as opposed to
cocaine hydrochloride, but it was not in a rock form,
and I think -
JUSTICE ALITO: To go back to your
definition of crack, just so I'm clear on it, if a
substance -- in the second prong of your definition, if
a substance is tested and chemically it is pure
C17H21NO4, no trace of sodium bicarbonate, no trace of
ammonium, is it possible for a defendant to be convicted
and given the crack penalty?
MR. PINCUS: Yes, it is, Your Honor. There
are cases applying the sentencing guideline test, which
is a similar test, in which the courts have said the
absence -- I think what you're getting at is if the
reactant is not present?
JUSTICE ALITO: That's right. And I don't
think -- could you just reiterate what the second prong
of your test is because I thought -- I was under the
impression it required the presence of a reactant.
MR. PINCUS: It is that it was prepared by
processing sodium hydrochloride with a base or with
baking soda or similar reactant.
JUSTICE KAGAN: That means prepared from the
powder, in theory -
MR. PINCUS: Prepared from -
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- is that right?
MR. PINCUS: -- cocaine powder, yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: So you need extrinsic
evidence about how this particular substance was
prepared in order to satisfy it? If you don't have the
trace elements of the reactant, you need evidence that
that's how this was made?
MR. PINCUS: Your Honor, the courts have not
required -- the courts applying the sentencing
guidelines have said that a chemist can testify based on
his knowledge, and they've found the sentencing
guidelines satisfied, that in his professional opinion
that's how this substance was prepared.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Would it be enough for you
if it had the right chemical definition and it was a
rock-like substance, just those two things? Would that
be enough? If the government could show it has the
right chemical definition, it's rock-like, it's solid,
does it have to show anything else?
MR. PINCUS: I think that the element of the
sentencing guidelines which we're picking up in our
second element, Your Honor, is useful in making clear
that this is a substance that was -- went from cocaine
hydrochloride back to cocaine base, because I think
that's one of the -
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm asking the same kind of
question that Justice Alito is asking, whether the
government has to show anything particular to
demonstrate that it was prepared from powder cocaine.
MR. PINCUS: I think that the government
doesn't have to produce -- doesn't have to make a
physical showing. It can -- it is enough for the
government's chemist -- and there's always a chemist
that testifies in these cases -- to say in his opinion
that's true.
I think -- I think as a fallback we would
certainly be happy with the definition that just had the
first and the third ingredients in what I've said, but I
think the second is important because one of the things
that Congress was focused on was the potency of the
crack and crack-like substance.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Pincus, you've lost me.
You've responded to the Chief Justice when he raised the
problem that this has to be not just cocaine base, it
has to be a mixture containing cocaine base, you
responded to him by saying: Well, crack always has some
mixture in it; it's never -- it's never pure; and that's
why crack would be covered.
But in response to Justice Alito, who asked
you what if it's pure, if it's pure cocaine base,
without any admixtures, you said that would still be
covered. I mean, both answers can't be right.
MR. PINCUS: I may have misspoken in my
response to the Chief Justice, Justice Scalia. I
thought the Chief Justice's question was that the
formulation of a mixture or substance which contains -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. PINCUS: -- somehow meant that Congress
was getting at the chemical, all chemical forms of
cocaine because -- because that formulation was more
sympathetic than thinking that it required a rock-like
substance. And in responding to the Chief Justice, all
I was trying to say was not that it was always true,
that there are other things present, but just that it is
often is true that there are other things present and
that Congress's use of the word "mixture or substance"
therefore was designed to deal with the ordinary case
where other things may well be present and did not want
to allow defendants to escape by saying this is not 100
percent cocaine in its chemical form and therefore I'm
not covered by clause (iii) .
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -
MR. PINCUS: I think the question here is --
I'm sorry, Your Honor -- is the converse of that
question, which is: But if it is 100 percent cocaine in
its chemical form in a rock-like state, is that covered
too, and I'm just trying to say: Yes, that's certainly
covered, too, but so is the dirtier form of a rock that
has other things mixed in.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if it's pulverized? I
don't know whether that's possible, but could you grind
it up so that it's not rock-like anymore, so it's like a
powder -
MR. PINCUS: I think -
JUSTICE ALITO: -- and smoke it after it's
in that form?
MR. PINCUS: Your Honor, I think our view -
that's one of the reasons that we would say rock-like or
a solid that is otherwise smokeable, to deal with people
saying: Oh, if it doesn't have to be a rock I'll
pulverize it. Even if it's tiny little rocks, if it
still has the smokeability characteristic, which is what
Congress was focused on, we think that that would be -
that that would be sufficient.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you get cocaine into
a rock form without using a base? Is there some way
that the rock type form of cocaine could ever be
achieved without a use of a base?
MR. PINCUS: No, I don't believe so, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And coca paste, what can
you do with coca paste? Can you make it into powder or
is it only useable as a -- ultimately for a rock-like
formation?
MR. PINCUS: Coca paste is -- is the
intermediate step for all downline products. Coca
leaves are mashed up in kerosene and other things and
they're -- through a process. They are -- the first
step is to convert them into coca paste, which is this
sort of mushy brown substance with many, many impurities
in it. It then typically is subject to subsequent
processing which turns it into cocaine hydrochloride,
colloquially cocaine powder. And then the way -- the
way that crack is produced is that cocaine powder is
turned back, using the process we've been talking about,
into chemically cocaine in this rock-like form.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You mentioned leaves
several times, and you talked about that in your -- in
your brief. If this were a trial court and we had two
world-class chemists, strictly from a chemical
standpoint wouldn't they tell you that the cocaine in a
leaf is in a salt form, not a base form?
MR. PINCUS: I -- I don't think they would,
Your Honor. We -- we talk in our -- in our brief, we
cite a number of studies that have found that cocaine is
present in the leaf in both the salt and the chemically
basic form, and I -- I think that the study -- we
explain in detail why the government study, which is a
little -- the principal study they rely on is about 125
years old -- doesn't capture the new learning -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does that depend on the
age of the leaf or if it's been in the sun or is -
MR. PINCUS: No, I think it's just -- you
know, different leaves have different characteristics.
The mix will be different. But -- but as a -- a matter
of the chemical composition, there will be some cocaine
in its chemical form and there will be some cocaine salt
in the leaves, and I -- I think even more important,
Congress believed that. So -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no, no, no.
MR. PINCUS: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought that the
chemists said that it's always a salt. And you -
MR. PINCUS: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- I thought that was the
government's position, that it's a salt.
MR. PINCUS: That is the government's
position, Your Honor. But -- but on page -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you ended by saying
oh, sometimes it's a salt.
MR. PINCUS: Our position is that within the
leaf, there is both -- there -- both forms coexist in -
in the natural state; that there is both the salt form
and the form that is chemically cocaine, and the studies
that we cite on pages 9 and 10 and in the footnotes on
that page I think were very clear. Early on the
processes for extracting from the leaf made it difficult
to tell whether the extraction process had made it into
a salt or whether there was actual chemical cocaine in
the leaf. More modern processes make clear that there
are both forms in the leaf. And -
JUSTICE SCALIA: As a practical matter what
difference does it make? Is the government going to be
prosecuting anybody for possessing coca leaves?
MR. PINCUS: They say they're not, Your
Honor. I think the reason it makes a difference is for
the interpretation of what Congress meant, because -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think Congress knew
what this chemical debate was all about. I -- I think
it's very unlikely.
MR. PINCUS: Well, Your Honor -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let's assume that the
government's right and -- or that you're right. And
that it's -- no, let's assume the government's right,
and it is -- no, you say it's base.
MR. PINCUS: We say it's both.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You say it's both, but it
includes base.
MR. PINCUS: Yes. Both base -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And let's assume you're
right. So what?
MR. PINCUS: I think then that would mean
that the -- the -- under the government's interpretation
of the statute, offenses involving leaves, as long as
there were more than 50 grams of them, would fall within
clause III, and that doesn't make any sense.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you just said it's an
academic issue because there's not a market for leaves
or for paste. What Congress was getting at was crack.
The judge used the term cocaine base. Assume you are
right. What should happen? Could you go back to the
judge and he would then say, well, this is -- the
chemists testified this is crack?
MR. PINCUS: Well, Your Honor, we would like
to go back to the judge, because in this case in fact
the chemist didn't testify. The chemist did testify
that it was chemically -- it was cocaine in its chemical
form, but the chemist did not testify: In my experience
this is crack, based on looking at lots of samples.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was -- it was -- the
testimony was it was a rock-like substance. What wasn't
said was -- what is it? Bicarbonate, sodium
bicarbonate, was not mentioned.
MR. PINCUS: The testimony was there was no
-- there was no baking soda found, and that there was a
-- that it was chemically basic. The testimony about
whether it was crack or not principally came from the
informant in the case and a little bit from an agent who
also said that he believed that cocaine powder was
chunky.
And so we believe we have a fair argument on
remand, when the district judge looks at the facts, that
he will say the government did not meet its burden, even
though it's only a preponderance.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The -- the district judge
would be the finder, right?
MR. PINCUS: The district judge would be the
finder. Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because you have no
Apprendi problem?
MR. PINCUS: Yes.
I would like to reserve the balance of my
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Pincus.
Ms. Saharsky.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. SAHARSKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Whether you call it freebase, coca paste or
crack, it's the same thing chemically. It is cocaine
base, it is smokeable, it has the same effects on the
user; and Congress did not limit the statute to one form
of cocaine base. This Court shouldn't do it, either.
Just to pick up on some of the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry, cocaine paste
-- coca paste is smokeable in its paste form?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes, it is smokeable in its
paste form, and that evidence was before Congress. It's
cited in our brief.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Assuming we
accept the -- the brief of the physicians and
scientists, they say clearly that coca leaves can be
chewed, but they are bulky and contain a lot of organic
matter in addition to cocaine. I understood their
scientific explanation to say that coca leaves contain
coca -- cocaine.
I think you've taken the contrary position,
but let's assume we accept the sciences answer. What
does that do to your argument?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, of course we don't
think that that's right as a scientific matter. But
probably more importantly, that's not something that we
can prove. We have the world's experts working for the
DEA on cocaine-related substances. We don't have one of
them who would get up in court and say that coca leaves
contain cocaine in its base form. We -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you're representing
that you will never prosecute someone who possesses coca
leaves under subdivision (iii)?
MS. SAHARSKY: The Romanette provision,
Romanette (iii), which would be the sentencing
enhancement, we have never applied in any case to coca
leaves. We have never even had a case where it's been
an issue. We've never considered it -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And you're representing
to the Court that you won't?
MS. SAHARSKY: We don't have a chemist who
would testify that. We would not be able to make that
showing in court.
But perhaps a more important question is
whether there was evidence before Congress that the
provision in Romanette (iii) would apply to coca leaves,
and there wasn't. There was evidence before Congress
about different base forms of cocaine, that
distinguished between the salt form and the base form,
and it mentioned substances like coca paste, it
mentioned substances like freebase, and it mentioned
crack.
And the important thing in -- in looking at
the term that -- that Congress eventually used, cocaine
base, is that that came from science. Petitioner says,
well, you know, "base" was a colloquial term. The
reason that "base" was used is because cocaine is in its
base form. That is what makes it smokeable.
JUSTICE KAGAN: It's a bizarre term, Ms.
Saharsky. It's -- I mean, cocaine base means the same
exact same thing as cocaine, because cocaine is a base.
It's like referring to an apple by saying "apple fruit"
or referring to a poodle by saying "poodle dog." I
mean, it's a strange way to speak about it.
MS. SAHARSKY: It is an extra clear, extra
precise way to think -- to speak about it, and we think
that there's a good reason that Congress did that. In
the preceding provision in Romanette (ii), Congress was
defining the whole world of cocaine-related substances.
So when it used "cocaine" there -- and it does mean
cocaine base there -- but cocaine, its salt, its optical
and geometric isomers, it's talking about everything.
It didn't need to distinguish between the different
forms. And that formulation had already existed like
that in the Controlled Substances Act.
But then in 1986 Congress was hearing
testimony about a specific form, the base form of
cocaine. Did you, at that point -- would one want
Congress to have just said "cocaine" in Romanette (iii)?
No, Congress said "cocaine base" because it wanted to be
extra clear.
There's another reason -- another -
JUSTICE KAGAN: It's a strange way to be
extra clear, to -- to use a different phrase that's
meant to mean the same thing as another phrase. To use
two different phrases that are meant to mean the same
thing is not a very good way of being clear.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, it's really just adding
the extra word "base." It's not like they're two
completely different words. It's just the addition of
"base" to be extra clear.
Another way to think about it is this: In
1986, prior to 1986, this Court had decided cases in
which it had said, somewhat imprecisely, that cocaine
hydrochloride was cocaine. It called it "cocaine"
throughout its opinion. It didn't make a scientific
finding, but that's how the Court referred to cocaine
hydrochloride, "cocaine." This was in its 1970 decision
in Turner. It was in its 1985 decision in Montoya de
Hernandez.
Congress is presumed to know about this
Court's decisions. It knew perhaps that courts had used
the term "cocaine" imprecisely, despite the fact that it
has a specific scientific meaning. Congress was going
to be extra clear and use the term cocaine base.
Another -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why did it draft it
to say "cocaine salts, et cetera," as opposed to
"cocaine, comma, its salts, et cetera"? If it intended
to differentiate between true cocaine and its byproducts
like salts, et cetera, why didn't it just simplify the
language in Roman numeral number (ii)?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes, I think that it does
that, Your Honor. I'm looking at page 19 of the
government's brief. This is -- you know, throughout the
briefs, you have Romanette (ii) and Romanette (iii). If
you look at Romanette (ii) -- again, I'm on page 19 of
the gray brief, but it's in other briefs, too --
Romanette (ii), Roman (II): "Cocaine, its salts,
optical and geometric isomers." In Roman (II),
"cocaine" does refer to the base form; "its salts"
refers to cocaine hydrochloride.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But why would it do
that? If it's going to treat cocaine base, which is the
same thing as cocaine, differently from cocaine salts,
why doesn't it just say cocaine salts?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, it -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Couldn't -
MS. SAHARSKY: I'm sorry, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- it say "cocaine and
its isomers" or something? "Its isomers." Why is it
using "cocaine" in an identical scientific way in Roman
numeral number (ii) and in -- in (iv)?
MS. SAHARSKY: The base form has to be
somewhere in Romanette (ii), because the way that
Congress drafted these two provisions together is that a
large amount of substances are listed in Romanette (ii)
and then a subset is pulled out in Romanette (iii). And
Romanette (iii) says, you know, 50 grams or more of a
mixture of substance described in clause (II) which
contains cocaine base. So you need to have something
that's described in clause (II) and that would contain
cocaine base, and that would be the word "cocaine" in
Roman (II). So you couldn't just say "cocaine salts,"
meaning the hydrochloride form, optical and geometric
isomers. You need something to get the base form
into -- into Roman (II).
JUSTICE ALITO: No, but you could have -- in
Romanette (iii), they could have said 50 grams or more
of a mixture or substance which contains cocaine base,
period. There was no need to have it described in
clause 2 if there's nothing implied in Romanette (ii)
that is not also in Romanette (iii) with respect to
cocaine.
On your submission, it's just bad
draftsmanship?
MS. SAHARSKY: I think that there is a
redundancy, but I think it is understandable in light of
the fact the courts had used the word "cocaine" somewhat
imprecisely. I think it's also understandable in light
of the fact that Congress was putting an enhanced
penalty in play, and that if Congress had not been extra
clear there would be criminal defendants, perhaps like
Petitioner, coming to court and saying, if Congress had
just said "cocaine," that that wasn't clear enough.
It's true that -- you're right, Justice
Alito, that Congress could have said: Here's some
things in (ii); here's some things in (iii); they don't
overlap. Congress didn't do that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What is in (ii) now, on
your reading, your expansive definition of "cocaine
base"? What is in Romanette (ii) other than powder?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, there is, in Roman (I),
coca leaves, except those from which all of the active
substances have been taken out. In Roman (II), the
salts of cocaine, their optical and geometric isomers
and salts of isomers. You have (III), which is
ecgonine, which is a smaller molecule that is part of
the cocaine molecule. It was made -- it was used in
pharmaceuticals a while back. It's not something that's
really seen in the production process now. And you
would have compounds, mixtures, or preparations that
don't contain cocaine base.
JUSTICE ALITO: What about optical and
geometric isomers of cocaine? Those -- those fall under
Romanette (ii), Roman (II), but not under (iii). Are
there such things?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes. There are optical -
optical isomers are -- isomers are generally substances
that have the same chemical definition, the same -- but
different spatial arrangements of atoms. Optical
isomers are nonsuperimposable mirror images, like right
and left-handed versions of the same molecule. Those
are -- those are both cocaine base. There is a
right-handed cocaine base and a left-handed cocaine
base. They're both cocaine base. We think that those
would be counted within Romanette (iii).
Geometric isomers, which are never seen, are
slightly different. They are based on spatial
arrangements where a certain part of the molecule is -
it is pushed out or pushed up axially or equatorially.
They're -- you know, geometric isomers are not seen.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They're all very exotic,
but practically, what does the government prosecute
under Romanette (ii)? What substances other than -
MS. SAHARSKY: I would say cocaine
hydrochloride would be the primary one, which would be
powder cocaine.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. That's -- so there
seem to have been a lot of words here, but in practice,
(ii) is powder and everything else is under (iii)?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, the things that would
be under (iii) would be any form of cocaine base: That
would be coca paste, freebase, crack, whatever you want
to call it.
Just to explain, Justice Ginsburg, why there
are so many words here: You know, this definition is
taken from -- is the same -- the stuff in Romanette
(ii), this long definition -- from other places in the
Controlled Substances Act. It's taken from Schedule II,
where Congress is defining the whole world of
cocaine-related substances that are subject to Federal
law, so that's -- that's where all of this comes from.
This was something that existed -
JUSTICE BREYER: It's my understanding here
that -- that the problem in this case -- tell me if I'm
wrong -- is because cocaine can become -- can be a salt.
People sniff it often, I guess, if it's a salt. And
that's bad. And then there's a kind that's worse,
that's freebase or crack, and that isn't a salt and it
isn't a poodle and it isn't an acid. It takes a base
form, right?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And so that's why they have
a higher punishment. Then the odd problem is that maybe
a cocaine leaf, but certainly cocaine paste, which are
more primitive forms, also have a chemical-based
solution, they too. So they've written this statute
that sounds like -- that sounds like "Who's your
father's son who's not your brother?" It takes a long
time to figure it out.
All right. So would you have an
objection -- and I wonder if the other side would have
an objection -- if what we said this word "cocaine base"
in (iii) means is that it is cocaine in the chemical
form of a base after it has been processed beyond the
stage of coca paste? And that's how we read it. That
would seem to exempt the things they're most worried
about, the paste and the leaves.
And I'm not going to repeat the same stupid
joke, poodles and fruits, but you see the point. Is
there any objection from the point of the government to
define it in that way, or the other side? And why?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes. There's an objection on
behalf of the government, and there are several reasons
why that's true. The first is there often won't be
evidence of how the substance was made. Second -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I don't care how it was
made. All we do is test it. Now, all we have to do is
test it, and then we look to see if it's a leaf. That
isn't tough, I don't think. And then we have to look
and see if it's this yellow stuff that looks like paste,
and I guess that isn't too tough, either.
So those are the only things you have to do.
You have to test it, look and see if it's a leaf, look
and see if it's a paste. Now, even the -- I mean, I say
"even." I mean, certainly the DEA could do that.
MS. SAHARSKY: With -- with all respect,
Your Honor, I -
JUSTICE BREYER: Certainly they could,
right?
MS. SAHARSKY: I just -- I don't think it's
that easy.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, that's what I want to
know.
MS. SAHARSKY: Okay. First of all, if you
talk about the chemical testing that can occur, DEA
chemists can tell you if it contains cocaine base or if
it contains cocaine hydrochloride.
JUSTICE BREYER: We got that part. Right.
MS. SAHARSKY: They're not going to start
making guesses about how it was processed. They're just
going to tell you what they can -
JUSTICE BREYER: That's fine.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But they don't need to do
that, Ms. Saharsky. Suppose we just said it needs the
right chemical definition, and it's rock-like,
rock-like, crystalline, whatever you want to call it.
So it's rock-like. It's not a paste; it's not a leaf;
it's a rock.
MS. SAHARSKY: Fine. As soon as the Court
starts saying not a paste or rock-like or something like
that, you have some problems.
The first is, you're basically giving a
national uniform roadmap of -- to evasion on behalf of
drug traffickers. It doesn't -- crack, for example, or
the rock form, doesn't have to be rock-like. You can
grind it up in a coffee grinder and make it into a
powder. It is still smokeable. It is chemically the
exact same thing.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can you make it in -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would assume that your
major objection would not be that. Your major objection
would be: We're not supposed to be writing a statute,
we're supposed to be interpreting one. And there is no
way to -- to get that out of these words, no way,
absolutely no way. Is there?
MS. SAHARSKY: That is exactly how I should
have started, Your Honor.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KAGAN: But this is -- but this is,
Ms. Saharsky, just a strange statute, where you are -
your definition creates all kinds of issues about why it
is that Congress used two different phrases to mean the
same thing, and then how it is that if they did use two
different phrases to mean the same thing, you're
effectively reading cocaine out of the statute in
Romanette (ii), right?
MS. SAHARSKY: No. I think that that's
based on a misunderstanding of how the statute works.
You need to have "cocaine" in Romanette (ii) so that
when Romanette (iii) says something contained in (ii)
that contains cocaine base, it is pulling out a
substance that is in (ii). But it's -- it's not a
redundancy.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but no, cocaine is the
same as cocaine base. So it's like saying -- it's like
saying apples, oranges, and bananas cost one dollar;
aforesaid apples cost three dollars. That's a strange
way to write a statute.
MS. SAHARSKY: That is how Congress wrote
the statute, though. It defined a large amount of
substances and then it pulled out one substance.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But why would it say apples
cost one dollar in Romanette (ii) if it was going to say
apples cost three dollars in Romanette (iii)?
MS. SAHARSKY: Because these definitions in
Romanette (ii) preexisted in other parts of the
Controlled Substances Act, in the definitions section in
802, in the definitions of controlled substances in
Section 812. This subseries of definitions, which are
the whole world of cocaine-related substances, are used
several places. So Congress pulled them over and it
used them here too, to define the whole world of
everything -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it -
MS. SAHARSKY: And then it pulled out one
thing for special treatment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it not relatively common
statutory drafting to include something in an earlier
section which is also included in a later section that
imposes a higher penalty? For example, as I recall from
my criminal -- criminal law courses, States have
statutes that provide that the taking of a human life,
homicide, is -- is punishable by so much; and then it
says the taking of a human life with malice aforethought
is punishable by more.
Now, does -- does the second include the
first? Of course it does. It includes the first and
then something. And it seems to me that's the same
thing here. It includes the first, the cocaine, but it
has to be within a compound mixture of preparation.
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes, you are 100 percent
correct, and I think that the statutory language makes
that clear because it says it has to be a mixture of
substances described in clause (ii).
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then, Ms. Saharsky, you
do get the problem that Justice Breyer was trying to
avoid. That is, on your definition this paste, which is
supposed to be less addictive, less addictive than
powder, gets bracketed with crack, which is more
addictive.
MS. SAHARSKY: I don't think that there is
evidence that paste is less addictive than powder. They
contain the exact same chemical, which is cocaine in its
base form. And the question -- they both can be smoked.
Now, the question is does one have a higher percentage
purity of the chemical than the other? Maybe, but that
just depends on how it was prepared. And there are
cases in the courts of appeals, several in the cases
that gave rise to the circuit split in this case, where
the courts appear to be grappling with whether something
that was a little bit wet but still rock-like should be
called paste. So -
JUSTICE BREYER: But you define it in your
brief, and this is very interesting to me -- you talk
about it being a yellow substance that came directly
from grinding up leaves, something like that. You have
the definition there. It's written.
Take that definition that you wrote, and
what you've said that's very interesting to me that I
would like to know, is that, that substance, in some
significant amount of time is actually more addictive,
more dangerous than the salt, which is ordinarily
sniffed? Now, is that what you're saying, because I
received from this material the contrary impression. I
had the impression that the yellow paste that comes from
the leaf directly is, if anything, less addictive and
less harmful, if anything, than the salt which you
sniff. Now, which is it?
MS. SAHARSKY: It -
JUSTICE BREYER: Or if -
MS. SAHARSKY: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: Go ahead.
MS. SAHARSKY: It is the case that the
paste, just like the freebase and the crack, can be
smoked, and for that reason is seen as more addictive
than the powder.
JUSTICE BREYER: So now if I want to find a
citation for the authority that paste, yellow, made out
of leaves is in fact more dangerous and Congress could
have thought that than -- more dangerous than ordinary
salt sniffed, I will read what? Because that -- that --
I did have that wrong impression.
MS. SAHARSKY: You would read our brief
pages 30 to 33 -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what you've referred
to, in other words. I -- I mean, I trust your brief
implicitly, but I don't know on the scientific matter or
the congressional. I would like to know what to read on
that.
MS. SAHARSKY: Right. And in -- on these
pages of our brief we're citing evidence that was before
Congress in the hearings in this case. There were
statements by two different authorities who are
scientists -
JUSTICE BREYER: What page is that of the
brief? You don't have to read it. I'll read it.
MS. SAHARSKY: No, that's okay. It's right
here. It's like 29, 30, 31. There's a Dr. Beck who -
from Yale, who testified specifically about the dangers
of smoking coca paste.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, I'll read that.
Thank you.
MS. SAHARSKY: And one I -- the point I
really wanted to make is that, you know, once the court
says it has to be pasty, or it has to be yellow, you
know, any of those things can be changed. The one thing
that can't be changed is the chemical composition. It's
still in the base form; it's still deadly; it still can
be smoked.
The paste doesn't have to be yellow, just
like crack doesn't have to be white or off-white. There
was evidence that a few years ago there were folks in
Ohio that were coloring crack green for St. Patrick's
Day. Any of these things can be changed. It doesn't
have to be rock-like. It can be ground up to a powder
and it can be smoked that way.
But the important think is that it's the
same thing chemically. And I think if you look at the
Controlled Substances Act, not just in this provision,
but holistically, what Congress was concerned about was
dangerous chemicals.
This gets back to the point that the Chief
Justice made, which is the reference in the provision at
issue here to a "mixture or substance" containing
cocaine base. The thing that Congress looked at was:
Do you have a substance which may not be 100 percent
pure; it's sold on the street; but does it contain the
dangerous chemical?
Congress defines throughout the Controlled
Substances Act the things that it was concerned about in
chemical terms. And that's just not because it was an
easy way to define things. It does give greater
accuracy and certainty. But it's because the harms that
are visited on people, the reason that they are
controlled substances, that they don't have approved
medical uses, and that they are extremely addictive, is
because the chemical is inside of them and the chemical
is dangerous.
So whether you get the chemical out of
paste, whether you get it out of rocks, whether you
grind the rocks and make it into a powder, whether you
freebase it, it is the same thing.
And just to -- to make sure the Court has
you know, some example or some thoughts as to the issues
that would be caused if the Court started making up
definitions of crack, you know, a word that doesn't
appear in the statute and does not have any clear
meaning -- you know, Petitioner says it wasn't clear in
1986, the definition of crack -- I just want to give the
Court an example of some of the problems that the -- the
issues the courts of appeals have confronted.
In several courts of appeals there have been
substances which I think perhaps under Justice Breyer's
definition would qualify as paste. The courts didn't
call them paste, but in the Bryant case in the Fifth
Circuit they said there was a brown, soft, mushy wet
substance that contained cocaine base was being brought
in the United States. The Easter case in the Tenth
Circuit: a wet gooey, cream-colored substance.
Those courts are ones that use the chemical
definition of cocaine base, and they said, look, they
contain cocaine base, they have the deadly chemicals,
they count.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, my understanding of
how coke -- how the paste is produced is the following:
You start with the leaves; then people vigorously
macerate the leaves by stomping on them for an hour or
more; and then this mixture is -- this -- what's left is
mixed with an alkaline material such as sodium
bicarbonate, an organic solvent, such as kerosene, and
water; and what you end up with is a gummy, yellowish
solid called coca paste; is that -- that's correct?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes, that's true. But it
also can be dried. It can -- can be dried and smoked;
it has been dried in South America, so it's not always
wet, it's just a question of, you know, whether it has
had time to dry or not.
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes. Now, if a chemist
analyzed that or then analyzed crack or freebase,
wouldn't there be present in the coca paste lots of
other substances that would not be present, in
quantities? Other substances would be present in
quantities in the coca paste that would not be present
in the crack or the freebase?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, they all -- any of
those would have impurities that are not cocaine base.
All three of them would be identically -- chemically
identical if that they would all contain cocaine base;
but you're right; the impurities would be different
because the method of preparation would be different.
JUSTICE ALITO: So a DEA chemist could test
-- could test a substance and say this is coca paste of
the type that is smoked in South America by some people.
This is crack or freebase that has been mixed with water
into a pasty substance -- a chemist could make that -
that differentiation, couldn't they?
MS. SAHARSKY: I think it really depends,
Your Honor. I think if it's just a -- a regular DEA
chemist, they would be able to tell you what chemicals
they can find through standard techniques like infrared
spectroscopy, like gas chromatography, and they can say
we've identified these chemicals in this substance.
Unless it is a chemist -- and we do have some that have
additional knowledge of methods of preparation, DEA
agents who have that kind of experience, have seen it
prepared -- those chemists -- regular chemists would not
be testifying about how it was prepared.
For example in this case the chemist
testified that the -- the sample had cocaine base, it
did not have detectable amounts of sodium bicarbonate,
and then defense counsel said well is -- is this -- do
you think that it's -- or I'm sorry, the chemist, the
defense counsel said -- wanted to -- tried to
distinguish it from freebase, and said it's freebase
crack; and the chemist said you know, I can't answer
those questions. I can tell you scientifically what it
includes.
And that -- that's really the -- the issue
of proof, is that you can tell chemically that it has
the substance that Congress was trying to get at, the
cocaine base. I suppose you can tell what other
impurities are there, but you know, Congress doesn't
care about the impurities, it cares about the cocaine
base; and that's why you know, it says mixture of
substance containing cocaine base.
You know, one -- one other thing that I just
want to make sure is clear to the Court, is that there
was ample testimony before Congress at the time that it
enacted this provision about the chemistry of this all,
that when Congress spoke about cocaine base, it was
understanding that base meant chemically the base form,
and that again is near the pages I cited to Justice
Breyer in our brief. But two different scientists, one
was the head of the National Institute for Drug Abuse;
the other was the -- was a professor at Yale. Both with
experience, and they said things like the form of the
drug is the freebase, the usual kind of cocaine is a
salt. It is cocaine with hydrochloride, it is a salt
like sodium chloride. But this has no chloride attached
to it, it is freebase, which is just plain cocaine.
So Congress knew the base form of cocaine is
what would normally be called cocaine. It learned about
the science and it used the term cocaine base.
And I take your point, Justice Kagan, some
of the other Justices: There is perhaps redundancy in
saying cocaine base instead of just saying cocaine, but
when Congress in 1986 was faced with a situation where
courts, including this Court, had used the term cocaine
to refer imprecisely to the cocaine hydrochloride form
and Congress was going to put a mandatory minimum
penalty in place, Congress had every incentive to be
extra clear, and that's exactly what we think that
Congress was doing here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Saharsky, coming back
to Romanette (iii), you have 50 grams or more of a
mixture or substance described in clause 2. Doesn't -
it really doesn't have to be a mixture. It could be
pure, couldn't it? It says "mixture or substance," not
mixture.
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes, it could be pure. I
don't know that we've seen any cases like that, but it
is almost always cut with something else.
So just to wrap up and be as clear as
possible, what Congress had intended to do in the
Controlled Substances Act really was to pull out
chemicals that -- that have certain pharmacological
effects on people that are dangerous. Congress did that
by using the term "cocaine base." That is a term that
is expansive and includes all these kind of forms that
we've been talking about today.
The lower courts have struggled in trying to
figure out whether a substance that's wet, off-white,
rock-like, paste-like counts as cocaine base. Certainly
the Seventh Circuit has had several cases like that. It
struggled. If this Court picks just one definition to
limit the term "cocaine base," it's really setting up a
road to evasion for drug traffickers to change to a
different form. We hope that this Court won't do that.
We just don't think the text supports it. It says
"cocaine base" without any limitation. And this -- we
just don't think that this -- this Court should be
adding a limitation based on what it thinks Congress
must have intended but didn't say in the text.
If the Court has no further questions, the
judgment below should be affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
Mr. Pincus, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW J. PINCUS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. PINCUS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Just a couple of points.
First of all, in response to Justice
Breyer's question, the 2002 sentencing report where -
sentencing commission report on this issue, on page 110,
recommends to Congress that substances other than crack
should be excluded from Clause 3, and I'm quoting,
"because they do not present the heightened concerns
associated with crack cocaine."
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but she says there's
no way -- and she does cite this professor from Yale and
so forth, who says if the stuff has the base in it, it
can be abused in ways that if it has the salt in it, it
can't be abused. That's all we can look at.
MR. PINCUS: But Your Honor, I -
JUSTICE BREYER: That's her point. That's
her point. You can respond to that if you want.
MR. PINCUS: I think that is her point. But
I think the question here -- all of these substances are
criminalized, and they're all going to be penalized.
The question is: What deserves the 100-to-1 sanction?
That, to us, means something that Congress was
especially concerned about, and certainly, because the
government agrees that cocaine hydrochloride is only in
2, something that's worse than cocaine hydrochloride,
which is a pretty bad thing. As Judge Posner said,
there's no reason to imagine that Congress meant to
punish paste more than cocaine hydrochloride.
JUSTICE BREYER: She says there is a reason.
It's because it contains base, and for many years, it
was smoked in Latin America and can be smoked here.
That's her reason. Now, your response is, it's a bad
reason?
MR. PINCUS: Our response is that it is -
it does not have the potency that crack had. It was
smoked here and didn't give rise to the epidemic that
occurred once crack was created, because that was more
potent, more marketable, and led to all the evils that
Congress was trying to get at.
Second point: We would be very happy to
accept your definition.
Third point, about the statutory language:
I think the critical question here, as several members
of the Court have noted, is that "cocaine" -- not just
in Romanette (ii), but throughout the statute -- means
all chemical forms of cocaine. If that's what Congress
meant in (iii), there was no reason to just -- not to
just say it. The words "cocaine base" could have a
chemical meaning, but the word "base" was also in this
debate as a word that was being used to describe the
specific evil that Congress was aimed at. And so we
think, at the worst, there's ambiguity here.
We think it's quite clear that by using
those different terms, Congress meant something
different, but at worst, there's ambiguity here. And an
ambiguity, under the rule of lenity, means that the
clause should be construed narrowly.
And, Justice Scalia, going to your point in
your analogy to State law, the problem here is that
everything that is in clause 2 is in clause 3 under the
government's interpretation, because clause 2, Roman
(II), has the word "cocaine," and clause 2, Roman (IV),
says any compound mixture or whatever containing
cocaine. Under the government's theory, that provision
will never, ever be invoked, because every offense that
uses cocaine is sanctionable under 3. And so it's not
the situation with -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's the same with homicide
and murder. Every murder, every murder, is a homicide.
MR. PINCUS: Yes, but the question here is
whether every homicide -- whether every lesser form of
homicide is also capital murder. And what the
government's position means: Every lesser form of
homicide, everything that's in (II) that sets up a
punishment, is also in (III), and we think that's the
problem with their interpretation.
And it's why, if it's unclear, as you said
maybe it was, then the rule of lenity should apply, and
Congress can fix it. If Congress meant to include all
of these other substances, Congress can easily fix the
statute. But we think, given the way the statute looks
right now, that's not possible.
Two more -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume for the
sake of a hypothetical that the statute was the same but
that things were reversed; that the smaller universe of
items was the salt rather than the crack, and so they
put an enhancement in Roman numeral number (III) for
salt rather than crack.
Is your argument that it's redundant based
on the fact that a larger grouping of the chemicals
listed in Roman numeral number (II) is excluded by Roman
numeral number (III), so that -- is that the basis of
your argument?
MR. PINCUS: That particular argument would
still apply. Our principal argument, if I may answer
the question, is that in this -- in the government's
interpretation, the word "cocaine" and the word "cocaine
base" -- the phrase "cocaine base" have the same
meaning. That evil wouldn't be present, and therefore,
our argument would be harder, but it is present here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:05 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
47:3 8:5 14:22 15:7 applying 8:7 9:20 bananas 38:25 25:22 36:2
54:23 16:22 17:21 Apprendi 25:14 6:6,19 8:1,5,6 believe 20:18
ambiguity 52:20 25:21 26:20 16:15 17:18 5:17 7:14 8:8
43:23 8:2,3 asked 18:18 27:2,20,21 28:2 bit 4:17 25:2 41:5
49:19 ammonium 16:3 asking 17:20,21 28:3,4,5,7,8,18 bizarre 28:6
47:14 assume 23:16,18 31:15,18,22 Breyer 34:22
42:4 ample 48:7 23:24 24:9 32:19 33:5,16 35:6 36:5,17,21
analogy 53:2 26:19 37:24 33:17,18,18 37:2,6,23 40:15
ANDREW 1:15 Assuming 26:11 35:18 36:25 42:14,24 43:5
answer 4:16,16 attached 48:18 43:12 44:4 Breyer's 45:7
answers 18:21 avoid 13:13 47:25 48:3,4,9 4:18 21:13,18
45:5,6 a.m 1:13 3:2 51:23 52:16,17 48:12
B 33:21 38:17 broader 12:21
33:2 44:1 49:8 24:25 brown 21:4 45:10
10:2 13:11
7:20,22,25 12:9,23 13:17 5:25 6:6,11,13 50:2,5,9 51:2
37:10 charge 6:18,19 50:15,19 54:20 10:20 11:5,21 54:16,17
charged 6:19,21 chloride 48:18 11:21 12:5,6,21 cocaine-related
48:21 6:12,25 7:15 chromatography 13:11,15,19,21 28:16 34:19
21:24 15:20 17:9,12 circuit 6:14 41:3 15:2,4,16,18 coexist 22:21
40:22,25 43:11 citing 42:20 21:6,7,8,10,15 coloring 43:17
19:11 44:7,10,16,16 clause 14:17 21:19 22:5,6,23 comes 34:20
25:2 27:8 44:18 45:14 15:4 19:15 24:5 23:3 24:9,16 41:19
34:23 41:3 52:14,17 31:12,14,24 25:3 26:1,4,6 coming 8:19
45:9,12 chemically 3:22 40:13 49:10 26:15,17 27:2 32:11 49:8
54:21,22 5:16 6:13 7:12 50:25 52:25 27:20 28:1,4,7 comma 30:6
16:6 22:23 24:16,25 clear 4:5,18,24 28:18,25 29:1,2 50:23
29:15 41:2 26:1 37:21 9:18 15:24 29:16,17,17,19 common 39:21
49:15 50:3 43:22 46:16 17:16 22:25 29:20,25 30:2,5 commonly 4:12
10:6 45:16 47:3,6 32:10,12 40:12 30:23 31:2,4,13 43:11
35:9 clearly 10:18 32:23 33:1,5,7 compounds
18:6 19:21 18:2,2 24:15,15 coca 15:5,8,8,19 34:3,5,10,24 concerned 5:24
36:14,17 24:17 27:13 20:20,21,24,25 35:8,8,16,17 11:16 43:24
51:16 46:7,20,24 47:3 21:3 23:8 25:25 36:25 37:1 44:9 51:16
22:12 24:12 46:9,12,21 47:13,25 48:2,4 8:14,24 9:23,24
12:3,10 38:20 51:23 9:20 16:7 17:2 cut 13:5 49:16 9:21 15:3,24,25
13:7 contend 9:21 17:3 29:24 32:6 C17H21NO4 4:7 17:9,12 18:6
14:3 context 10:25 41:2,4 45:5,6,8 16:2 32:18 33:12
18:9 19:2 contrary 26:18 45:14 49:2,25 34:14,16 37:9
22:8 41:18 Court's 29:24 D 38:10 40:16
24:8 controlled 28:22 covered 18:17 D 3:1 41:11,12 45:3,8
27:17,19 34:17 39:11,12 18:21 19:15,20 dangerous 4:14 45:15 50:4 52:9
43:23 44:8,14 19:22 5:5 10:23,23 definitions 9:18
30:1 49:19 crack 3:15,19 41:16 42:8,9 39:9,11,12,13
32:8,9,11 converse 19:18 5:10,25 6:10,19 43:25 44:7,17 44:25
34:18 convert 21:3 6:24 7:3 8:15 49:21 demonstrate
39:3,15 converting 15:12 8:15,20,24,25 dangers 43:3 17:23
43:24 convicted 16:3 9:12,13,15 11:9 day 12:4 43:18 Department 1:18
47:24 correct 6:16 11:11,22,23,23 de 29:21 depend 21:25
40:11 46:1 11:24 12:1,1,12 DEA 26:25 36:14 depends 41:1
correctly 4:9 12:13,17,18,19 36:24 46:20 47:1
50:11,24 cost 38:25 39:1,7 12:21 13:8,15 47:2,8 DePIERRE 1:3
52:7 39:8 13:20,21,24 deadly 43:12 3:4
counsel 11:19 14:4,18,22 45:16 describe 11:7
14:21 19:16 15:24 16:4 deal 19:11 20:8 52:18
54:20 21:8 24:8,12,18 23:13 52:18 31:12,14,23
19:10 counted 33:19 34:11 35:2 decided 14:13 deserves 51:14
15:3,6,11 42:3 43:15,17 decision 29:20 despite 29:25
13:9 40:6 crack-like 18:10 defendants determine 7:2
27:2 courses 39:25 crafting 12:25 13:14 19:13 determined 6:9
33:5 court 1:1,12 3:10 cream-colored 32:10 6:22
44:6 6:11 10:1 11:1 45:13 defense 47:15,17 difference 6:1
46:17 14:13 21:13 created 52:5 define 35:25 23:7,10
45:11 27:12,15 29:15 creating 11:13 44:11 4:20 7:15 9:23
48:4 53:6 37:13 43:8 criminal 32:10 39:4 28:20 29:6,8,12
12:1 48:6 49:2 50:4 criminalized defining 28:16 38:13 42:22
14:7 50:7,10,13 51:13 34:18 46:18,19 48:12
31:13,22 52:12 critical 52:11 definite 8:16 50:7 52:22,23
37:1 courts 6:8 8:7 crystalline 37:10 definition 7:3,6 differentiate
easily 5:23 53:23 40:21 42:20 factual 6:8 37:19 40:23
easy 11:17 36:20 evil 52:19 54:18 fall 24:4 33:7 48:20 49:3 50:7
47:18 elements 7:11 54:10 finder 25:10,12 18:25 19:4
elided 13:17 exempt 35:20 fine 37:6,13 forth 51:5
48:8 34:21 6:14 10:16 18:7 24:24
19:13 26:16 following 45:19 46:8,13,23
51:16 extra 28:12,12 form 5:1,25 6:25 48:19
14:25 essential 9:10,13 extracting 23:1 15:12,20,21 fumes 5:3
48:13,16 et 30:5,6,8 extraction 23:2 19:14,20,22 further 50:13
ether 5:2,13 8:3 extremely 44:15 20:5,15,16
16:8 19:3 36:10 13:4,5,11 15:18 26:23 24:2 53:4,19
guesses 37:4 15:21 16:15 imported 15:5 54:16
24:6,19 guidelines 7:4,6 29:17,20 30:19 imposes 39:24 38:2
32:17 8:7,12 9:22 31:17 34:4 37:1 imprecisely invoked 53:8
34:6,13 17:4,6,15 48:17 49:3 29:16,25 32:7 involved 6:3
gummy 45:25 51:17,18,21 49:3 involving 3:14,14
45:3 52:4 H 54:3 41:18,19 42:11 isomers 28:19
42:1 happy 18:6 52:8 identical 31:4 incentive 49:5 33:24
35:22 harmful 41:21 identified 47:6 39:22 40:5 47:22 50:23
39:7 harms 44:12 ii 28:15 30:9,13 53:22 issues 38:10
51:13 53:1 harsher 3:12 30:14,16,16,17 included 39:23 44:23 45:5
17:11,22 hearings 42:21 33:8,8 34:2,8 including 49:2
21:22 heightened 51:1 34:16,17 38:15 incorporate 4:15 J
25:7 34:1 Hernandez 29:22 38:18,19,21 incredibly 11:18 J 1:15 2:3,9 3:7
36:2 higher 35:7 39:7,10 40:13 informant 25:2 50:17
39:24 40:24 52:13 53:5,17 infrared 47:4 joke 35:23
18:2 22:15 homicide 40:2 iii 13:16 14:17 inhalability 7:5 24:9,11,14
23:17,18 53:11,12,14,15 15:5 19:15 24:5 11:18 25:6,9,11 51:19
30:12 53:4 53:17 27:5,7,18 29:1 inhalable 7:18 judgment 50:14
54:15 Honor 7:6 10:16 30:13 31:10,11 inhale 5:3 jury 6:18,21 7:2
49:9 15:11 16:5 17:2 32:24 33:8,19 Institute 48:13 Justice 1:18 3:3
44:20 31:1 36:16 38:6 imagine 51:20 intermediate 12:9,23 13:17
19:1,6,16 kinds 38:10 42:8 45:20,21 major 37:25,25 mentioned 21:11
20:4,14 knew 4:13 10:9 led 11:15 52:6 making 17:16 24:22 27:22,23
21:11,25 23:12 29:24 left 13:11,12 37:4 44:24 27:23
48:20 45:22 malice 40:3 method 4:21 5:17
know 10:13 15:1 left-handed mandatory 3:12 46:19
24:6,19 19:25 22:3 28:3 33:15,17 49:4 methods 47:8
29:23 30:12 legislative 10:25 manifest 3:23 middle 5:19
27:3,11 31:11 33:24 11:12 manner 8:18 minimum 3:12
29:5 30:4 34:14 36:22 lenity 52:24 manufacturing 49:4
31:2 41:14 42:16,17 53:21 4:21,25 5:4 minutes 50:16
32:13,17 43:8,10 44:23 lesser 53:14,16 market 24:7 mirror 33:14
34:6,13 44:25 45:2 46:5 let's 23:16,18,24 marketability misimpression
35:6 36:5 47:19 48:1,3,5 26:19 54:2 5:25 11:17 6:17
37:2,6 49:15 life 40:1,3 marketable 5:23 missing 13:23
38:8 knowledge 17:5 light 32:5,7 52:6 misspoken 18:22
39:6,18 47:8 limit 26:3 50:5 mashed 21:1 misunderstand...
40:14,15 known 4:12 limitation 50:9 mass 13:12 38:17
42:1,6 50:11 material 41:18 mix 22:4
43:5 L limited 3:21 9:20 45:23 mixed 5:1 14:12
45:7,18 lab 13:2 liquids 5:9 matter 1:11 22:4 19:23 45:23
48:11 language 3:23 listed 31:9 54:10 23:6 26:15,22 46:23
49:8 12:20 13:13 little 4:17 20:10 42:16 54:23 mixture 5:2
30:9 40:11 21:23 25:2 41:5 mean 10:18 11:20,22 14:7
53:1 52:10 logic 12:16 18:21 24:1 28:7 18:14,16,25
54:2,20 large 12:23 31:9 long 6:12 8:10 28:11,17 29:7,8 19:10 31:12,22
17:8 53:2 looked 44:4 52:17 54:18 33:4
28:6 29:5 laws 12:25 13:7 looking 3:24 meanings 4:20 modern 23:4
38:8,23 leaf 21:16,20 24:18 27:25 means 4:5,20,21 molecule 32:25
48:23 22:1,21 23:1,4 30:11 4:22 16:17 28:7 33:1,15,22
22:9 36:12 37:11 53:24 52:13,24 53:16 Montoya 29:21
41:20 lost 18:11 meant 4:15 5:20 morning 3:4
learning 21:24 lots 24:18 46:9 23:11 29:7,8 53:12,15
23:8 24:3,7 luggage 15:17 medical 44:15
35:1 47:9 27:9,18 32:21 M members 52:11 N 2:1,1 3:1
49:23 35:21 41:10 macerate 45:21 narrowly 10:2
occurred 4:13 42:13,20 48:11 33:2 44:1 48:23 51:9
occurs 4:25 37:2 49:20 52:10 53:1
offenses 3:13 17:22 54:13 54:17 35:3
50:1 20:20,21,24 physical 18:1 22:20 26:18
Ohio 43:17 26:6,7,7,9 pick 26:5 Posner 51:19
31:13,18 43:5 35:8,19,21 36:9 picks 50:4 possessing 23:8
37:7 old 21:24 36:13 37:11,14 Pincus 1:15 2:3,9 possible 16:3
once 43:8 52:5 40:16,21 41:6 3:6,7,9 4:8,16 19:25 49:18
14:11 15:20 51:21 12:2,22 13:23 potential 11:18
53:8 30:5 paste-like 50:2 14:5 15:1,10,15 powder 5:1 6:4
25:21 32:23 33:6,10 penalized 51:13 18:11,22 19:2 20:2,21 21:7,8
oral 1:11 2:2,5 penalty 3:12 6:23 20:24 21:17 34:8 37:21
31:5 54:6 ordinarily 41:16 15:7 20:8 34:25 24:13,23 25:11 practically 34:1
ordinary 19:11 44:13 45:20 25:15,19 50:16 practice 34:7
31:5 54:6 organic 26:14 percent 13:9,14 51:11 52:2 precise 28:13
45:24 19:14,19 40:10 53:13 54:13 preexisted 39:10
36:1 page 2:2 3:25 2:4,10 3:8 28:2 25:24 8:1 13:1 16:14
22:17,25 30:11 32:11 45:2 point 13:18,23 16:17,19,24
pages 22:24
prong 15:25 4:17 6:8 7:7,8 recall 39:24 Respondent 1:19
21:20 prosecute 27:4 27:16 40:23,24 recommends response 11:2
34:1 46:5 50:22 50:24 18:18,23 50:21
54:18,19 prosecuting 23:8 51:12,14 52:11 redundancy 32:5 51:25 52:2
27:18 28:15 50:25 42:14 23:17,17,18,25
25:14 pull 49:19 ratio 10:22 regarding 15:16 38:15 42:19
35:7 pulled 31:10 39:5 reach 5:21 regular 47:2,10 43:1 46:18
53:2,19 39:15,19 react 12:6 reiterate 16:11 53:25
pulverize 20:10 13:12 16:9,13 released 5:4 33:17
punish 51:21 reacting 5:17 rely 21:23 road 50:6
11:13 12:4 punishable 40:2 12:8 remaining 50:16 roadmap 37:17
23:2 40:4 reactive 12:4 remand 25:6 ROBERTS 3:3
punishment 35:7 read 11:21,25 remotely 10:14 11:19 12:9
pure 12:5 13:4 42:17,25,25 reply 4:18 25:18 50:15
21:6 49:12,14 38:14 27:3,11 12:5 13:9,25
pushed 33:23,23 29:10 33:3 43:8 10:3 16:13 17:3 19:22 20:9,15
10:12 21:8 putting 32:8 49:19 50:5 requirement rocks 20:10
reason 12:3 6:14 44:19,20
qualify 5:14 6:24 51:20,22,25 36:15 5:25 6:3,5 7:16
qualifying 3:22 5:21 10:4 20:7 respond 51:10 20:22 21:10
REBUTTAL 2:8
54:5,7 second 7:13,25 28:5 37:21 special 39:20
43:19 50:2 salts 30:5,6,8,16 10:21 15:25 smoked 40:23 specific 28:24
31:4 31:16 32:23,24 18:8 36:4 40:5 46:3,22 51:24 specifically 43:3
32:20 sample 47:13 52:8 51:24 52:4 spectroscopy
33:8 53:4 samples 24:18 section 39:11,13 smoking 15:8,10 47:5
54:6,10,10 sanction 51:14 39:23,23 43:4 split 41:3
28:15 53:9 36:12,13 sniffed 41:17 St 43:17
30:13,13 satisfied 6:13 seen 33:3,20,24 42:10 stage 35:19
31:7,9 17:6 42:4 47:9 49:15 soda 5:18 9:10 standard 47:4
satisfies 10:20 sense 24:5 10:2 13:11 standpoint 21:15
32:19 satisfy 16:24 sensible 4:10 16:16 24:24 start 37:3 45:20
34:2,15 saying 13:14 sensitive 12:25 sodium 5:14,17 started 38:6
14:2,18 18:15 sentencing 7:4,6 7:14 8:8 14:3 44:24
49:9 19:13 20:9 8:7,11 9:19,22 16:2,15 24:21 starts 37:14
22:18 28:9,10 16:6 17:3,5,15 45:23 47:14 state 19:20 22:22
setting 50:5 sold 44:6 42:22
25:20,21,23 45:2 48:3 49:12 17:22 solution 35:10 statute 3:13 4:4
27:6,13 50:8 51:3,5,22 showed 5:6 solvent 45:24 4:11 5:15 8:12
29:10 53:6 showing 18:1 somewhat 29:16 8:15 9:21 10:2
31:1,6 Scalia 8:13,24,25 27:15 32:6 10:21 11:1,25
33:10 9:3,13,15 10:10 shows 10:21 son 35:12 15:4 24:3 26:3
35:5 11:9 18:11,23 side 35:15,25 soon 37:13 35:10 38:1,9,14
19:1 23:6,12,16 significant 41:15 sorry 19:18 26:6 38:17 39:2,4
38:5 23:21,24 37:24 similar 5:10,17 31:1 41:25 45:1 52:13
39:3,9 39:18,21 49:8 7:15 8:11 13:8 47:16 53:24,24 54:3
40:10,14 53:1,11 16:7,16 sort 21:4 statutes 40:1
41:23,25 Schedule 34:17 simplify 30:8 SOTOMAYOR statutory 3:23
43:1 science 28:2 situation 49:1 14:21 19:16 4:1 6:14 39:22
46:2,14 48:22 53:10 20:14,20 26:6 40:11 52:10
49:8,14 sciences 26:19 slightly 33:21 26:11 27:3,11 step 20:25 21:3
30:1 31:4 42:16 smoke 20:4 sounds 35:11,11 strange 28:11
23:3 scientifically smokeability South 15:9 46:4 29:5 38:9 39:1
28:18 47:20 20:11 46:22 street 11:6 44:6
35:2 scientists 26:13 smokeable 7:17 spatial 33:13,21 strictly 21:14
42:10 42:23 48:12 20:8 26:2,7,8 speak 28:11,13 strong 11:18
51:6
27:22,23 28:16 tell 21:15 23:2 19:23 21:1 35:13 41:15
32:22 33:11 37:5 47:3,20,23 34:9 35:20 times 21:12
39:11,12,14 Tenth 45:12 44:9,11 48:15 today 49:24
44:9,14 45:7 11:4,5 24:9 think 4:18 5:20 trace 16:2,2,25
substantial 14:24terms 3:13 4:3 11:3 12:2,16,21 treatment 39:20
sufficient 20:13 52:22 15:1,22 16:8,11 tried 47:17
10:11 36:6,7,12 46:20 18:5,5,8 19:17 19:7,9 30:7
31:10 sun 22:1 43:3 47:13 24:1 26:18,22 14:17 19:7,21
5:6 suppose 37:8 testify 17:4 30:10 32:4,5,7 49:25 52:7
47:25 24:15,15,17 33:18 36:8,19 turned 21:9
6:3,4,5 supposed 38:1,2 27:14 38:16 40:11,20 Turner 29:21
7:3 40:17 testifying 47:11 43:21,22 45:7 turns 21:6
8:17 9:2,7 Supreme 1:1,12 testimony 24:20 47:1,2,16 49:6 two 4:3 17:10
11:14,14 sure 44:22 48:6 24:23,25 28:24 50:8,10 51:11 21:13 29:8,11
sympathetic 19:5 48:7 51:12 52:11,20 31:8 38:11,12
13:14 testing 36:24 52:21 53:18,24 42:22 48:12
15:25 16:1 T text 50:8,12 thinking 19:5 54:1
17:7,10 T 2:1,1 Thank 3:9 25:18 thinks 50:11 type 13:21 20:16
18:10,25 take 14:19 41:12 43:6 50:15,19 third 7:16 10:25 46:22
21:4 48:23 54:20 18:7 52:10 typically 21:5
31:12,22 taken 26:18 theory 16:18 thought 6:18
38:21 39:5 32:22 34:15,17 53:7 7:23 15:9 16:12 U
44:3,5 takes 35:3,12 thing 26:1 27:25 18:24 22:11,14 ultimately 20:22
46:21 talk 11:25 12:13 28:8 29:7,9 42:9 unclear 53:20
47:6,24 21:18 36:24 30:22 37:22 thoughts 44:23 understand 4:9
49:10,12 41:8 38:12,13 39:20 three 3:24 4:20 8:13,14
talked 21:12 40:8 43:10,22 7:11,11,19,21 understandable
4:6 8:10 12:17,19 21:9 51:19 39:8 46:16 understanding
11:8 28:19 49:24 things 5:24 14:1 threshold 7:7 34:22 45:18
water 45:25 21:15 46:9 2 3:25 31:24
15:8 45:12 12:10,10 20:15 write 39:2 2002 50:22
10:17 38:3,4 39:2 wrong 6:16 34:24 29 43:2
14:24 43:20 44:11 42:11
20:17 51:4 53:24 wrote 39:3 41:12 3
30:2 ways 10:16 51:6 3 2:4 50:25 53:3
45:14 weighs 14:14 X 53:9
5
51:23 31:11,21 49:9
42:20
49:15,24
54:16,16 10:09 1:13 3:2
42:15 52:16 44:5
19:12 working 26:24 100-to-1 6:23
34:11 works 38:17 10:22 51:14
37:10 world 28:16 11:05 54:22
45:3 48:6 34:18 39:14,16 110 50:23
world's 26:24 125 21:23
30:11,14
21:14 1970 29:20
29:21
worse 35:1 51:18 1986 9:17 28:23
10:7 wouldn't 9:15 49:1
27:19
