IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
LOS ANGELES COUNTY, CALIFORNIA, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-350
CRAIG ARTHUR HUMPHRIES, ET UX. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 5, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:00 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
TIMOTHY T. COATES, ESQ., Los Angeles, California; on
behalf of Petitioner.
ANDREW J. PINCUS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
TIMOTHY T. COATES, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ANDREW J. PINCUS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 20
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
TIMOTHY T. COATES, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 49
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:00 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 09-350, Los Angeles County v. Humphries.
Mr. Coates.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY T. COATES
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. COATES: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In Monell v. Department of Social Services,
this Court held there could be no liability against a
local public entity under section 1983 unless the
plaintiff proved causation, namely that the injury that
was inflicted was inflicted as a result of a custom,
policy, or practice of that local public entity.
The Ninth Circuit, however, in this case has
imposed ex post facto declaratory relief on the County
of Los Angeles as well as a substantial fee award, while
acknowledging that it has not, in fact, determined
whether the injury suffered by the plaintiffs and
subject to declaratory relief was the result of a
policy, custom, or practice fairly attributable to the
County of Los Angeles. It did so because the Ninth
Circuit has developed a digression from the Court's
jurisprudence in Monell; namely, in the Ninth Circuit,
claims for prospective relief, both injunctive and
declaratory relief, are not subject to the Monell
requirements.
We submit that this is flatly inconsistent
with Monell and erodes the important principles of
federalism that are the motivating factors for the
Monell causation requirement.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What was the -- what was
the basis for that -- for that exception, that
declaratory judgment does not affect the fisc of the -
MR. COATES: Yes, essentially in the Chaloux
case -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It does -- it does, though,
if you have attorneys' fees. What -- what was the total
attorneys' fee award in this case?
MR. COATES: As to the County, it's $58,000.
But the overall award is far above that, and that's just
for appellate attorneys' fees. We're not even talking
trial fees at this time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's far above? Like
what? I suspect -
MR. COATES: 600-and-some-odd thousand
dollars.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suspect the case is
mostly about attorneys' fees.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there was no
objection on the part of the State. The State was to
pay the lion's share of the fees, I think 90 percent,
right?
MR. COATES: Correct. The State has not
contested that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the State is not
contesting.
MR. COATES: The State has not contested
that, correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does the State make that
payment under an Ex parte Young theory?
MR. COATES: Yes, yes. It's a suit against
the State under an Ex parte Young theory, since they
maintain the statute.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If you sue the
municipality, if they deny a marriage license, do you
have to sue under 1983, or you can just sue alleging a
Federal cause of action under -- because of a denial of
a constitutional right?
MR. COATES: Well, it would have to be under
section -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It would be like a Bivens
action, I guess.
MR. COATES: It would have to be -- the
Court has recognized, against local municipalities'
liability under section 1983.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The only way to sue a
municipality for a constitutional violation is under
1983?
MR. COATES: In a direct civil cause of
action, I believe that is correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you could get the
individual officer who's denying the marriage license or
whatever the offensive act is. You could sue that
person under 1983 and get -- and get injunctive relief,
I suppose.
MR. COATES: That is correct. You could
also sue the individual.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But could you sue outside
of 1983?
MR. COATES: The individual, for a Federal
constitutional remedy?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just to get -- the
marriage license example -- just to get an order
demanding issuance of the license.
MR. COATES: No, I believe you would still
have to have an operative statute to get it into Federal
court for declaratory relief requires some -- some
basis.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that has to be a
statute -- it has to be 1983?
MR. COATES: I believe for a constitutional
claim of this type, it would be section 1983. You might
find an employment case where you might have Title VII
concerns. It depends on the right that you're talking
-- that's at issue.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What happens if the
individual says I'm going to ignore the injunction? Can
you go to the State and force the State to -- in that
circumstance, to get someone to issue the license on
your behalf?
MR. COATES: If it's -- we're talking about
the State, or are you referring to the municipality?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or the municipality. I
misspoke.
MR. COATES: You would not, unless you
showed that there was a policy, custom, or practice.
You might have one outlying -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what you're saying is
that a State agent or a municipality can continue to
ignore a constitutional violation until, what -- you're
denied the license five times?
MR. COATES: Well, no.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How many times do you
have to show that you're not getting a license you're
entitled to?
MR. COATES: Well, say, for example, that
one brought to the attention of a policymaking official
that this is what was going on -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They wouldn't know
that -
MR. COATES: -- and then you have the
deliberate indifference by a policymaking official. I
submit that, under Monell, that might provide a basis
under the Court's case law.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So what do
you do with CANRA section 11178(a)(2), which tells you
that the municipality is responsible for the accuracy,
completeness, and retention of the reports sent to the
State?
It's not your policy to ignore your
obligation and not figure out what to do about the
retention of improperly submitted names?
MR. COATES: Well, the difficulty in this
case with respect to that is there are no State
standards in terms of evaluating the accuracy or when
stuff is removed, when someone wants to be removed from
the database. Even the Ninth Circuit recognized that,
that it was kind of imposed on local public entities
through the back door, that there are no specific
criteria in the statute for removing someone from -
from the list.
And that would require the County to start
trying to create its own policies or its own procedural
schemes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's what it's
charged with doing. It's charged with the
responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, and
retention of these reports.
MR. COATES: But -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if you're charged
with the accuracy, completeness, and retention of the
reports, why shouldn't you be responsible for the
failure to maintain accurate reports?
MR. COATES: Because it's not so much that
they are inaccurate; it's the standards used to remove
someone from the list or not. Because we may have
information showing culpability, information showing not
culpability, but we don't have a standard to tell us
when to remove them from the database and when to leave
them in, because that's defined by the State.
More importantly, we don't have any
procedures on how to go about that, because the
statutory scheme doesn't have any for doing that.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the Respondents here
argue, don't they, that you should have created a
procedure on your own, right?
MR. COATES: Correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: Now, if the -- presumably,
that could be brought to the -- that could be brought
before someone who is a County policymaker, couldn't it,
when you are talking about something that's going -
that's ongoing in the future?
MR. COATES: That's true. That could be
brought to the attention of a policymaker.
JUSTICE ALITO: And then that would fall
within Monell.
MR. COATES: Correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: So that's why I'm somewhat
puzzled about what this case is about.
When are we going to get into a situation in
which the plaintiffs are asking for prospective relief
and the matter cannot be brought before a municipal or
County policymaker?
MR. COATES: No, I agree with Your Honor. I
mean, I think that most of these cases do fit neatly
within the Monell framework if a plaintiff pursues them
within that framework.
The Ninth Circuit doesn't require that,
though, and kind of just simply lumps the County
together with the State and says the State statute's
unconstitutional. You're charged with enforcing it.
Declaratory relief against both of you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You concede, I take
it, or acknowledge that one episode can be the basis -
I mean, going forward -- for a determination that the
defendant has a policy, custom, or practice.
MR. COATES: You can. If you have a
policymaker who understands the situation, makes a
deliberate decision, yes, I think can you come forward
with a Monell claim.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that's your
adversary's argument, which is by this lawsuit, you have
been told that there's something wrong -- it seems
pretty natural -- that a report would be kept on the
registry that has been declared just plain wrong.
The court has said there's no foundation
whatsoever for the accuracy of what's in that report,
and you have failed to establish a procedure to remove
the name. Why aren't you liable under Monell?
MR. COATES: Well, as a factual matter, the
one thing the Ninth Circuit said it wasn't doing was
figuring out whether this met the policy, custom, or
practice requirement of Monell, because under its case
law it doesn't have to do so. And, in fact, in the fee
order, it said -- declined to do so and, in fact, it has
remanded on the damage portion of the case,
acknowledging that Monell claims remain open.
We also contend that for purposes of
potential Monell liability that we may not be free under
State law to add additional procedural protections.
That area may be pre-empted by the State through implied
pre-emption under California law.
JUSTICE ALITO: Now, if that's the case, why
wouldn't one of the following be possible?
If you -- you say we have no discretion
here. We are required to -- we are totally bound by the
State procedures; we can't add any new procedure. They
say, well, that's unconstitutional. So -- and you're
choosing to do something that's unconstitutional because
it's required by State law.
Then, haven't -- in that situation, won't
you have adopted a policy?
MR. COATES: The way the lower courts have,
in the context of liability, viewed this requirement
where State law requires a local entity to do something
is they have virtually said that they're standing in the
shoes of the State. Under those circumstances, it's
essentially the State making the decision. They are
just using the County as a -- the local entity, as an
instrument. And so it's essentially an Ex parte Young
Eleventh Amendment-type case.
JUSTICE ALITO: It would be an Ex parte
Young situation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And they have sued
the State here, right?
MR. COATES: They have sued the State.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or under Ex parte
Young?
MR. COATES: They have indeed sued the State
here. And we submit that they can get full relief with
respect to the database from the State, should they
choose to pursue that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Who would they sue to do
that? As I am reading CANRA, it makes the California
Department of Justice only the repository of reports.
MR. COATES: They may -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So who -- who do they
sue in the State to -
MR. COATES: They've sued the Attorney
General, because the Department of Justice maintains the
database. The Department of Justice issues the
regulations on how local entities go about -- are
required to report to the database. And so that's -
that is the defendant in this case, and that's who they
would sue. And I submit they could get relief by being
removed from the database or require the State to enact
procedures to allow them to have a determination made as
to whether they should be removed or not.
As it now stands, the statutory scheme
doesn't have that, and the County's view is that it's
not free to just go out and invent procedures, and other
counties throughout the State of California aren't free
to invent their own procedures. And that's one of the
elements of this case that I think really underscores
the Monell concerns with federalism, because it's an
important question of the manner in which States relate
to their municipalities and the way States divide up
responsibility for who does what, and in a fairly
important area of the law.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what would happen
under California law if you said, we agree with the
Respondents that additional procedures are
constitutionally required. So, even though California
law doesn't allow this, we are going to create these
procedures because we have to comply with the
Constitution.
What would your situation be under
California law? Would you be subject to -- what could
the State do to you?
MR. COATES: Well, there would be a possible
pre-emption argument. They could halt California -
they could halt Los Angeles from enacting the statute,
from utilizing the procedural protections.
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm sorry -
MR. COATES: They could say the area is
pre-empted and move for an injunction from doing it,
because they're interested via maintaining the database.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Who is the "they" who
would do this?
MR. COATES: The State of California could
come in and argue that the County was pre-empted from
using these regulations. They could argue that it slows
down the database or what have you. But they could
theoretically do that under California law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This -- this is getting
further removed from the situation that we're dealing
with, because the State has already admitted liability
and not has contested that its fees -- it owes fees.
So, what is the relief that is left? If the
-- if the State has admitted liability, what happens at
that point? Shouldn't the record be expunged?
MR. COATES: I believe the appropriate
argument for the plaintiffs would be to apply in a
district court if they believe they have a valid
injunction and valid declaratory relief vis-à-vis the
State and move forward from there.
They could certainly do that and have
themselves removed from the database or order the State
to create statutory procedures to allow them a hearing
to determine whether they should be removed from the
database. They're perfectly free to do that, because
it's the State statute and it's the State database, and
the State is a party here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the State has already
conceded. It's been adjudicated a constitutional
violator, and the State is now saying, yes, we are not
going to contest that anymore. Doesn't the State have
to do something?
MR. COATES: They should. They absolutely
should. And if the State drags its feet, the
appropriate remedy is to file a motion for an injunction
as against the State, to have them issue the proper
procedural protections or to remove them from the
database.
But we submit that it's, at this point, not
appropriate relief as against the County. That issue
still remains open. We could still go back into
district court and lose that, but at this point you
still have to make the inquiry whether it's a county
policy, custom, or practice that's inflicting the injury
that's the subject of declaratory relief here.
And, I mean, I think at bottom, at the end
of the day, the point is that Plaintiffs really haven't
identified any circumstance in which, in a proper case
applying the Monell standards, you would not be able to
get relief. And the danger of going forward with the
Ninth Circuit's kind of amorphous standard where you
just impose declaratory relief, independent of whether
or not there's a policy, custom, or practice, is the
kind of sloppy order that we have here, granting
declaratory relief where we have a 90-10 fee split, and
it's unclear how that decision was made, because it's
not made through the prism of any sort of causation
standard articulated by this Court.
So we would submit that Monell provides
clear guidelines, although sometimes difficult to apply
in certain cases, but they are clear guidelines. And
the Court in Monell said that those causation
requirements applied to damages, injunctive and
declaratory relief. And we believe that is a solid rule
that supports the interests of federalism and -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's true that all cases
that at least have come to us under Monell have involved
damages.
MR. COATES: That is correct. They have
been damages cases. But the -- but Monell itself
doesn't talk in terms of guarding the public fisc, which
is how Chaloux, the Ninth Circuit case that departs from
Monell with injunctive and declaratory relief -- the way
it characterizes it. It doesn't.
Monell was concerned with interpreting the
language of section 1983, the "shall subject," the
"shall cause" someone else to subject a person to a
violation. They said that did not really conform to
respondeat superior principles. And looking at the
legislative history, the 42nd Congress in enacting
section 1983 was critical to Justice Brennan in Monell
that the rejection of the Sherman Amendment, which he
said was concerned mostly with not imposing coercive
liability on the municipality for the actions of others.
They were concerned not to save money necessarily, but
the way in which a Federal court would exercise coercive
power over a local public entity.
And we submit that it is just as important
to have those guidelines when directly coercing through
injunctive and declaratory relief as it is indirectly
doing it through the threat of damage claims.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can -- can Bivens actions
be brought against municipalities?
MR. COATES: I do not believe so, Your
Honor. I believe via section -- strictly 83.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And can you -- can you
cite me authority for that? And would -- do you think
that the rationale for that is that since Congress has
created an express cause of action, this impliedly
pre-empts Bivens-type actions?
MR. COATES: Yes, that's -- that's my
recollection.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And have -- have we said
that in a case?
MR. COATES: Off the top of my head -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because it seems to me it
would help you in this case, because you would say,
well, if there's a real problem, the city -- the injured
party can sue for an injunction. Perhaps the State was
against the party first, and he can -- he can raise a
constitutional defense or he can bring an action for an
injunction, and it doesn't have to be under 1983. And
it would seem to me that that would resolve it. And you
then wouldn't have to pay attorneys' fees because
there's no provision in the statute for it.
MR. COATES: Well, I mean, it is independent
of what remedies might occur under State law. I'm not
trying to say that that's the exclusive -- that section
83 is the exclusive means for all relief. You can
certainly -- there is State law -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, I'm talking about
under Federal law.
MR. COATES: My understanding with respect
to a general constitutional claim is that it is section
1983, that that is the Congress's -- that's how Congress
has specified the remedy. There are other portions for
other types of conduct -- section 1986, section 1985,
for example -- but I think this sort of general
constitutional claim is subject to section 1983.
And if the Court has no further questions,
I'd reserve the balance of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Pincus.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW J. PINCUS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. PINCUS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Let me begin, perhaps, by trying to answer
Justice Alito's question about what is at stake here.
Monell held that 1983 has a causation requirement. And
the Court has, in a series of decisions, elucidated what
a plaintiff must prove in the context of claims for
damages to satisfy that causation requirement, and it's
held in particular that the mere fact that a city
employee committed a violation under color of State law
in the past is not itself a sufficient link to the
municipality itself. And the decisions have been
devoted to elucidating precisely what else is required
in order to show the sufficient link to the
municipality.
The question here arises in what, we submit,
is the very different factual context of ongoing
constitutional violations. And we think that although
the jurisprudence that's developed under Monell has been
done a -- has been devoted to fleshing out this other
context, the Court should take a look at whether that
jurisprudence is the appropriate way to determine
whether the causation test is satisfied when there is an
ongoing violation, because there's an easier way to do
it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's the same statutory
language that you're relying on, right, that was held to
require causation in the one case? Why wouldn't it
require a similar causation in the other?
MR. PINCUS: Your Honor, we believe it does
require causation, but the question is what kind of
facts have to be shown to prove causation. And, in
particular, once a plaintiff has shown what is required
otherwise to show the violation, to show standing for
prospective relief and obtain prospective relief, we
think those elements will necessarily encompass the
showing that's required to prove a link to the
municipality itself. And what our concern here -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then you're not really
hurt if -- or the system isn't really hurt by the rule
that the city asks for. If it's so easy to establish a
policy or custom requirement in cases where prospective
relief is sought, then that's the answer. You can
establish it. End of case. But you don't get it unless
you establish the custom and practice.
MR. PINCUS: Your Honor, we think it should
be easy. It should be present in every case. Our
concern is that courts might be confused by the idea
that what they are supposed to do is apply the
jurisprudence that's really been developed to target who
was responsible for this act that happened in the past,
and not realize that there's really a quite more
expeditious way to determine in the future.
Here, it's quite clear. The court of
appeals said there's an ongoing failure by the County to
provide due process.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm -- I'm not sure
I understand your submission. And it could be I'm just
obtuse on this point.
I interpret your remarks as saying that
Monell does apply when there's an injunction. Do I
misinterpret you?
MR. PINCUS: I guess I would clarify -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you say, oh, it's so
easy to do, it doesn't make any difference. Well, then,
why are we here? Why isn't the city right?
MR. PINCUS: Because I think what the city
has said, Your Honor, is what Monell requires is for the
plaintiff to show something in addition to what the
plaintiff has to -- to what the plaintiff has to show to
(a) prove a constitutional violation, and (b) prove an
entitlement to prospective relief.
The plaintiff says there is an additional
element that may or not be present, and our submission
is that the Ninth Circuit, although its rationale may
have been slightly off, was correct in saying once a
plaintiff has shown an ongoing constitutional violation
and that the plaintiff is entitled, under standing
principles and principles governing prospective relief,
to relief, the plaintiff has necessarily shown a link to
the municipality. And there is -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that's what you
think. So you agree -- it struck me that your argument
could have been made by your friend on the other side.
You say if you get an injunction, you must have shown
municipal policy, practice, or custom. And, therefore,
you agree that a municipal policy, custom, or practice
is required. That's what he thinks.
MR. PINCUS: Your Honor, we agree that
causation is required. I think the only slight fillip
that I would make to your comment is I think in some of
the jurisprudence that's developed focused on finding
responsibility for past conduct, some of the ways courts
have developed to decide those questions might be inapt
in the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, could you stop
talking in the abstract -
MR. PINCUS: Sure.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and give me an
example? Give me an example of a situation where a
State official under Ex parte Young has been held to
have violated the Constitution where a Monell finding
had not been a part of it.
MR. PINCUS: I'm sorry, Your Honor -- where
Monell couldn't be satisfied?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly.
MR. PINCUS: Well, I think this case, to the
extent that what the city is saying is that Monell is
not satisfied here, is a perfect example, because
here -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, Monell doesn't
apply to State officials, right?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No.
MR. PINCUS. No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I was trying to do just
an analogy in terms of -- because one of his arguments
has been that -- that Ex parte Young doesn't have,
inherently, a Monell requirement.
MR. PINCUS: Well, if I may, Your Honor,
just to respond to the Chief Justice's statement -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you.
MR. PINCUS: The Petitioner's position is
that this standard would apply also in Ex parte Young
actions against State officials. The Court's -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That, of course,
isn't before us.
MR. PINCUS: It's not before you. The
Court's jurisprudence is a little -- is a little
uncertain as to whether that might or might not be true.
There certainly hasn't been a holding to that effect.
But one of the reasons we think this is an
important issue to be very clear about is because, at
least on Petitioner's view and possibly on the view of
how -- depending on how the Court analyzes the case,
this would affect not just the universe of cases against
municipalities, but also whether relief is available for
ongoing constitutional violations in the very broad
group of cases against -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that would
require -- that would require us to get into the
question of whether Ex parte Young is a fiction or
substance, which I certainly wouldn't like to get into.
MR. PINCUS: Well, but it -- it might not,
Your Honor, because it might turn just on whether -- I
mean, Ex parte Young suits against State officials are
under 1983. And so to some -- I think the argument that
Petitioner would make is if causation is required under
1983, well, Ex parte Young is just a vehicle to get
those people -- to make those people persons. And so
whatever the Court were to decide about causation would
necessarily apply in those Ex parte Young actions.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I have a question
similar to Justice Sotomayor's. Suppose we were to hold
that the Monell requirement applies to prospective
relief, injunctive and declaratory relief.
Can you provide an example of a -- an
unacceptable consequence that would follow from -- from
that holding, a situation in which that holding would -
would, in your judgment, be one that we would not want
to accept?
MR. PINCUS: Well -
JUSTICE ALITO: What difference does it
make?
MR. PINCUS: I think, Your Honor, we gave
some examples in our -- in our brief. And one I would
give is the example of the marriage license clerk who is
engaging in unconstitutional -- who is -- who is
violating the Constitution and denying marriage
licenses.
JUSTICE ALITO: All right -
MR. PINCUS: He or she is not -
JUSTICE ALITO: Now we have a situation.
The clerk denies the marriage license. And then I
presume you can take the matter before a municipal
policymaker, and the municipal policymaker will say:
This is our policy, license denied. Or this is not our
policy.
And then Monell is satisfied, right?
MR. PINCUS: Well, I -
JUSTICE ALITO: If the policymaker says, it
is our policy to deny licenses under this -- under these
circumstances, that's a policy.
MR. PINCUS: It may be that -- I don't think
the Court has required that there be some exhaustion of
administrative remedies. I guess the way I would look
at the case is, if -- if the party who is being injured
filed suit against the municipality and against the
official and said, I would like a marriage license, that
-- and the court heard the case and found yes, there's
an unconstitutional denial going on there, the fact that
the lawsuit existed and there was an ongoing violation
that had been, by virtue of the lawsuit, brought to the
attention of the policymaker, and if in that case the
judge decided that prospective relief is necessary,
which necessarily means that there was some finding of
ongoing violation under Lyons and those cases, that
there would be a link to the municipality.
And I -- my concern is not that, properly
applied, a causation requirement would weed out cases.
It's that because the focus of the Court's jurisprudence
up till now has not been on the ongoing violation as the
possible source of a policy, but rather was there a
policymaker involved in the initial denial, unless if
the Court were to say there's an extra step, it were to
make very clear that the focus of attention is not the
initial action, in terms of finding a policy, but on the
day -- as the matter ends up on the day the district
court is deciding whether or not to grant relief, that
those facts are relevant in deciding whether there is a
policy, as well.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is -- what is the
answer to Justice Alito's question? The -- a clerk
doesn't give a license to someone he should. Right?
Now, you bring -- that person brings a lawsuit against
the city.
Now, if Monell applies, in order to win he
has to show that it was the city's policy to deny it, or
maybe all he has to show is the city's policy was to
leave it up to the clerk. And if he finds it was the
city's policy to grant it, he's going to lose, which he
should, because there was no such policy. The clerk was
wrong.
MR. PINCUS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: What's the harm in that?
Now, the next question would be: If we show
the third, is there any ground for an injunction against
the city? And on that one, I don't know. Maybe there
is. Maybe conditions changed. I don't know.
But what's the harm to anybody in doing -
requiring that in order -- just what I said? What's the
harm?
MR. PINCUS: Your Honor, if the -- I think
in your hypothetical -- I may have misunderstood it -
that this was a sort of a one-off decision by the -- by
the clerk.
JUSTICE BREYER: There are two
possibilities -- three possibilities. The clerk denied
the license.
(A) there is a city policy which requires
him to do it; (B) there is a city policy that permits
him to do it; (C) there is a city policy that forbids
him to do it. All right?
Now, those are the only three I can think
of. And it seems to me in (A) or (B), you could recover
against the city, and in (C) you couldn't.
MR. PINCUS: Well, I guess my -
JUSTICE BREYER: So -- so -- so, why -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or there is no city policy.
MR. PINCUS: Well, I was just going to add
that -- I was just going to add that example, where the
city just is agnostic. The clerk is going on just -
JUSTICE BREYER: If there's no city policy,
then the city hasn't done anything wrong under Monell.
Now, is that what you're arguing? That the
city should, even though it has no policy, nonetheless
have to have attorneys' fees, is open to suit, et
cetera, and forget about Monell? Is that your argument?
MR. PINCUS: My argument is this, Your
Honor, that if -- if there is one clerk who issues
marriage licenses and that clerk continues to deny the
marriage license up until the day of the lawsuit, that
the plaintiff in that case is entitled to relief, to
injunctive relief, because the city, by virtue of
tolerating the conduct, has adopted a de facto policy of
permitting it. And the alternative is -
JUSTICE BREYER: If you're right about
that -
MR. PINCUS: -- that there's no relief.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If you're right
about that, there's no problem for you because you are
saying, yes, you need a city policy, and this counts as
a policy.
MR. PINCUS: That's exactly right, Your
Honor. And our concern is that the Court's
jurisprudence, because it has been focused on
retrospective one-off, for the most part, actions,
doesn't make clear what the answer is in that situation,
and this -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Breyer's
question said you need a city policy, and you said
that's exactly right. So I think the case is over. The
issue is whether you need a city policy, and your friend
thinks so, and you think so.
MR. PINCUS: Well, Your Honor, I -- I think
that -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the Ninth Circuit
didn't think so.
MR. PINCUS: Well, first of all, the Ninth
Circuit didn't. And I -- I go back to -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did or did not? The Ninth
Circuit did not?
MR. PINCUS: Did not.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You agree with that
statement, yes?
MR. PINCUS: And I go back to our position,
which is if causation is required, which it is, the
question on which I think guidance to the lower courts
would be very helpful is not to simply say Monell is -
Monell applies, adopt our jurisprudence that was focused
on retrospective conduct or prospective conduct; but
rather, yes, Monell's causation requirement applies, but
we recognize that in this context it's likely to be
satisfied by the other things that the plaintiff is
required to prove.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not what the Ninth
Circuit -- the Ninth Circuit said, we're not deciding
the Monell question; we're leaving that -- we're leaving
that open. But Monell -- we're not deciding because
Monell doesn't apply to forward relief -- declaratory
relief or injunctive relief. And so the Ninth Circuit
has rejected the statement in Monell itself that it
applies to all forms of relief.
And so that's the question we are confronted
with. Because we have had experience in Monell cases
only with damage actions, was -- was the Monell decision
wrong in saying that that framework applies to
declaratory and injunctive relief as well?
MR. PINCUS: And, Your Honor, my response to
that is that Monell was not wrong. I don't know that
Monell squarely addressed the question, but clearly the
statute has a causation element and it has to be met.
But what Monell didn't grapple with, because
it itself was a case involving only a past
non-continuing event, is how does that causation
requirement get met in a case involving an ongoing
violation?
And we think that although the Ninth Circuit
may not have had its reasoning quite right, what -
the -- the bottom line was right, in the conclusion that
when there is an ongoing violation and the other
requirements for relief are met, Monell/the 1983
causation requirement doesn't impose an incremental
burden on the plaintiff. It's necessarily satisfied by
the other things that the plaintiff has to prove.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I -- I'm still -
I'm sort of asking for a hypothetical and to take it
from the abstract.
Tell me what's -- here, you define the
ongoing violation as the failure to institute
procedures, I'm assuming, to remove a name from the
registry, correct?
MR. PINCUS: Uh-huh.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the ongoing
failure that you're alleging entitled you to injunctive
relief?
MR. PINCUS: I think that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or was it that you
thought that the city could remove the name?
I'm not quite sure what it is that you
think -- what was the continuing violation?
MR. PINCUS: The continuing violation here
is that every day for the past 9 years, our Respondents
have suffered a violation of their due process rights,
because they have not been given any sufficient process
to show that they are wrongfully included in the index.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So to prove a future
violation, you have to show that the municipality can do
that, correct?
MR. PINCUS: And the court of appeals held
that twice in this case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right.
MR. PINCUS: The court of appeals twice
said -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why isn't that a
policy, practice, or custom? That's what I'm trying to
understand, how -
MR. PINCUS: We think it is, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- their failure or
omission could be anything but.
MR. PINCUS: We think it is, Your Honor, and
that's why we -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you don't think
that -
MR. PINCUS: -- think this is an easy case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think your friend
agrees. But -- but how can the city have caused the
violation in the absence of a city policy, custom, or
practice?
You say you have to show causation to get an
injunction. The only way to show that the city caused
the problem is to show that they've got a policy,
custom, or practice, including one that might be shown
by inaction. But you still have to show that, and
that's all Monell requires.
MR. PINCUS: And there is that inaction
here, because the court of appeals -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, now you're
arguing whether Monell was satisfied or not, and you're
going to get a chance to do that on remand because the
Ninth Circuit said we're -- we're making the city pay,
and now we're going to find out if they violated
anything.
MR. PINCUS: I agree, Your Honor, but -- but
by -- by issuing a declaratory judgment and by finding
that there was standing for it here, the lower court
necessarily concluded that the city -- that there was -
the redressability element was satisfied and that the
continuing harm element was satisfied.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- so the Ninth
Circuit was wrong to send it back for a hearing?
MR. PINCUS: The Ninth Circuit -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because you've
already shown Monell was satisfied.
MR. PINCUS: The Ninth Circuit, I think,
recognized that there were two different claims in this
case. The Ninth Circuit sent it back for what might be
a different question, which is damages liability. In
other words, damages -- the question is -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- but -- yes,
damages, but turning on whether Monell was satisfied.
It was a hearing about Monell.
MR. PINCUS: And -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead.
MR. PINCUS: I'm sorry, Your Honor. I think
this is one of the -- one of the issues, I think,
with -- with simply saying, as my friend does, that
Monell applies. For the damages question, for example,
whether the damages started accruing on the very first
day the process wasn't -- wasn't provided, there might
be a question about whether on that day there was a
municipal policy in 2002 when this controversy started.
It might be that on that day there was no
municipal policy one way or another. Maybe no one had
confronted it. Maybe nobody confronted it until 2006.
But I think one thing -- so for damages
there's a somewhat different inquiry which is, for each
day for which damages are claimed, was that -- is the
policy requirement met? This is a different question
which is on a going-forward basis to provide -- to -- to
be entitled to the prospective relief, what kind of
causation is made. And that's exactly the concern -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How can you get
relief -- how can you get relief going forward under
Monell unless there has been a city violation before?
Otherwise what the injunction you're getting is just an
injunction saying don't violate the law, and the city
has said we haven't because you haven't shown that we
had policy, practice, or custom.
MR. PINCUS: But it is not necessarily true
in this particular case that the policy -- that the
policy was in effect from day one as opposed to
something that -- that came into -- that -- the
municipal responsibility might not have come to pass
until later when a policymaker -- the city might say
when -- when these decisions were additionally -
initially made, no policymaker knew what our process was
for determining the accuracy of -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you were sued -
MR. PINCUS: This lawsuit got filed, and in
2006 somebody decided because the city took the position
in the lawsuit and has -- has determined that it is not
going to implement a policy that violates the
Constitution.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the test would be the
same going forward, right? The test would be the
same -
MR. PINCUS: But the facts -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The same test would apply
to both damages, going forward after the date of filing
of the suit, and injunction according to your reasoning,
right?
MR. PINCUS: If -- if the damages -- if the
injunctive test is satisfied, yes. From the time that
that is satisfied -
JUSTICE SCALIA: From the time the suit is
filed both -- the injunctive test will also be the
damages test.
MR. PINCUS: But the difference, I think,
Your Honor, is to recover damages, the plaintiff doesn't
have to show that the other elements of the damages
claim don't encompass the kind of requirement of
municipal -- of municipal involvement that is
encompassed within the other elements of the prospective
relief claim. So when a case has both, our submission
is that there is no need -- the plaintiff does not have
to show something more to show causation than he has to
show to show the violation and to show the entitlement
to ongoing relief.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let me follow this. To
bring a damages claim, do you have to show past damages,
or can you just collect damages from the date you file
suit?
MR. PINCUS: I think it -- I mean, you would
have to show all the requisites, but you can decide that
you just want to collect damages from the day you filed
the suit.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, in -- if that's the
complaint that you file, then -- then in that kind of a
suit the test for damages and the test for injunction
would be precisely the same, and you would be able to
get damages on the basis of the mere fact that the suit
exists, right?
Because they wouldn't be fighting it if it
wasn't their policy.
MR. PINCUS: Well, there might be a question
about the precise timing on which -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I -
MR. PINCUS: -- an official -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry -- answer.
MR. PINCUS: On which -- it might not be the
actual day of the filing of the complaint. There might
be a question about whether or when an official got to
know. This -- this suit has been going on for so
long -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it's
not -- defending the suit doesn't give rise to a
municipal custom, policy, or practice. They may have -
somebody comes in and says this is what's going on. And
they say, well, we don't -- we don't think that's
unconstitutional. So they're going to defend the suit.
That doesn't mean that they have adopted a
policy to do what they -- the individual employee has
been alleged to have done.
MR. PINCUS: And is continuing to do.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well -- or
continuing to do, I mean, the suit doesn't satisfy the
requirement of showing a policy or practice, because
they may defend on the ground that it's not
unconstitutional. They may say, look, this isn't our
policy, this isn't our practice, but we're going to
defend our employee because we don't think it's
unconstitutional.
MR. PINCUS: And I think that is -- that is
an example, to go back to Justice Sotomayor's question,
of a case that would be problematic, because at the end
of the day when the -- when the district judge issues
his -- says, sorry, City, you're wrong, this -- this
employee has continued to engage in unconstitutional
action up until today, and then the question is, should
the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but -
MR. PINCUS: -- should the plaintiff in that
case be entitled to some prospective relief from that
violation, or is there some additional requirement?
And our position is, once that showing has
been made of a violation and once the showing has been
made that would be under Lyons that would say, yes, the
city -- this is attributable to the city, that should be
enough -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And so the city -
MR. PINCUS: Under -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The city is in a
catch-22 position. Whenever they are sued, they have to
say if we defend this, we're going to be liable under
Monell, but if we don't defend it, then, you know, our
policy is being changed. Or we might -- we might want
to have this policy; we might not. We didn't know this
clerk was doing that, but we might think it's a good
idea, we might think it's a bad idea.
The cases are not always going to be as
clear as the hypotheticals in your -- in your brief. It
seems to me that it's a bit much to tell the city you've
got to choose -- when you have to choose whether to
defend a suit, you are in fact choosing what policy or
practice to have going forward.
MR. PINCUS: But the alternative is to say,
even if it turns out that there is unconstitutional
action going on that the city has become aware of, that
the plaintiff who shows that does not get any relief and
has to continue to suffer the unconstitutional violation
for some indefinite period of time. And that doesn't -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, he doesn't get
relief against the city because the city is not
responsible for what happened until they adopt a policy,
practice, or custom.
Now, if they are told this is
unconstitutional and they decide to stick with it, then
they're -- then that's their policy and custom, and you
can get an injunction against them.
MR. PINCUS: But at the time of the lawsuit,
the plaintiff can't get prospective relief against
anyone because he can't get prospective relief against
the city. My colleague's view is an official capacity
suit against -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He's not -- he's not
entitled -
MR. PINCUS: -- the city employee subject to
the same limit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He's not entitled to
prospective relief against the city because the city has
not caused the alleged harm until you establish a
policy, practice or custom.
MR. PINCUS: But that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you establish
what the employee is doing in a suit against the
employee, which the city is defending because he's one
of their employees, then the city is put to a choice.
Once -- I suppose once the legal process has concluded,
they have to decide whether to continue that or not.
MR. PINCUS: But, Your Honor, I think the
consequence of that structure is that the city can leave
the employee -- there is no remedy against an employee
who is engaging in the unconstitutional conduct.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- against State.
MR. PINCUS: Excuse me -
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, here you have a
statute, and the statute doesn't have any method in it
to get off -- get out of it, even when you should.
Their claim is this is a State matter, the State's
responsible, it's unconstitutional, go sue the State and
tell the State to do it.
Now, that's a -- what's wrong with that
position?
And either they had the power to do it under
State law or they didn't. If they did have the power to
do it, then you probably will show a practice. If they
didn't have the power to do it, why should they bear
anything against them? You should tell the State go do
it.
MR. PINCUS: Well, two answers, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is wrong with that?
MR. PINCUS: The Court of Appeals held that
they do have the power to do it. And we think that's
settled for purposes of this case.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why did the State -- why
did they send it back? I thought they sent it back in
order to determine whether there was some policy against
doing it.
MR. PINCUS: Look, they sent it -- one of
the reasons they sent it back was to -- for -- so that
the procedures could be provided or an injunction could
be entered, directing the County to do what the statute
requires, which is exercise its responsibility under the
statute to make sure that the submissions are accurate.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Pincus, why do you -
why do you accept, as I think you did in response to the
Chief Justice's question, that if the city has a policy
which it believes is constitutional but in fact is
unconstitutional, that is not a city policy for purposes
of Monell?
MR. PINCUS: If I accepted that, I was
wrong, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I thought you did.
MR. PINCUS: I think -- I think it is a
policy. And I think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even if they think it's a
constitutional policy, it's still a policy, isn't it?
MR. PINCUS: Yes. They don't have to know
that their conduct is unconstitutional. And the other
thing that the Court has -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What I'm trying to
figure out the answer to is whether or not merely
defending the employee in court is sufficient to
establish that the city has that policy, custom, or
practice.
MR. PINCUS: I'm not sure that it's the act
of defending it in court, Your Honor. I think it's the
ongoing conduct, almost certainly -- maybe it would be a
question of fact -- will by virtue of the lawsuit be
brought to the attention of policymakers.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, sure. Sure.
MR. PINCUS: And, in fact, the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you're back where
Justice -- Justice Alito was commenting, well, that at
some point you have to bring what you're complaining
about to the attention of the city. And you dismiss
that as an exhaustion requirement, but -
MR. PINCUS: No, I'm not -- I don't think
that courts have said that filing a lawsuit is an
impermissible way to do that. And I think that it could
be done by a letter also. But the Court has said, for
example, that there is a deliberative difference prong
to the Monell retrospective test as well. So that, in
the hypothetical we've been talking about, if
policymakers know of the ongoing conduct and they are
indifferent to it, which they would be presumably if
they're letting it continue, that that might be
satisfied.
But -- but, to us, that just goes to the
notion that -- it's hard to come up with a situation
where there will be an entitlement to prospective relief
and the requisite causation won't be satisfied. And,
therefore, saying there is this additional element, it
sort of creates more harm than good because it's going
to serve -- send courts on a search for it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You would have liked the
Ninth Circuit to have said there is a policy whatever,
because the city is on notice and they've done nothing
about it; therefore -
MR. PINCUS: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the -- the Ninth
Circuit didn't say that. It said we're not going to
decide Monell liability; we are just going to say Monell
doesn't apply. And if you were just thinking, well,
what's at stake? You say all of our cases involve
damages; that's money. What is involved here?
Attorneys' fees; that's money. So where do we bracket
this? Do we bracket this with the -- with damages,
because that's money, and that's what's involved here,
attorneys' fees? Then the only thing that's before us
is the award of attorneys' fees, right?
MR. PINCUS: That's the only thing that the
County petitioned from, Your Honor, but I think more is
at stake here because if this rule applied, then it
would not only preclude attorneys' fees; it would also
preclude the awarding of any relief. And so, although
this -- it happens to arise here in the attorneys' fees
context, but if this causation requirement is more than
just an extra box to check in terms of something
that's -- for which the requirements will be satisfied,
if it does screen out some cases, then it will not just
mean no entitlement to attorneys' fees; it will mean no
entitlement to prospective relief, and we think that's
significant.
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm still waiting to hear -
I'm still waiting to hear what cases it will screen out.
I haven't heard an example of a case that it will screen
out.
MR. PINCUS: Well, Your Honor, we think,
properly applied, it shouldn't screen out any case
because -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. PINCUS: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, Mr. Coates, you
have 13 minutes left.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY T. COATES
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. COATES: I think it's telling that we
don't have an example of circumstances where, applying
the Monell standards, someone couldn't get prospective
relief where it was appropriate, where the injury was
actually inflicted by the municipality. I think
Plaintiffs' view is that it's kind of the tail wagging
the dog, that having established declaratory relief,
that establishes causation, and that's backwards -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, they gave you an
example. Clerk says: I'm not giving a marriage license
to interracial couples; I think that's constitutional.
Clerk resigns. And the municipality says: We think he
was right, that's constitutional. It's not our policy.
We didn't really think about it, but we think it's
constitutional.
You're arguing that because it was the agent
who made that decision, the city had no policy, you
can't give injunctive relief ordering the city to give
you a license.
MR. COATES: Assuming that that -- that the
city's acceptance of that policy wasn't what led the
clerk to make that decision. It sounds like you're
talking more of a ratification type thing on
consideration. Yes, we think he did the right thing.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, how is that
different from what the Chief Justice -
MR. COATES: Because -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- proposed, which is,
no, we didn't have a policy, but we're going to defend
you anyway because we think it's okay.
Now you're calling that a policy.
MR. COATES: No. I'm saying that there are
circumstances under which you have a policymaker that
specifically ratifies and says this is affirmatively our
policy, we think it's correct, as opposed to legal
arguing we think it's -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They're not going to say
that; they're going to say: Policy, no policy -- we
don't even think that way. What he did was okay. We're
going to defend it. It's constitutional. And the court
says: What he did is not constitutional. X has to be
done instead by you, the municipality, even though the
agent that you had before was acting on his or her own.
MR. PINCUS: In -- in those circumstances
where the public entity is not a party, you can only
hold the public entity liable when its policy actually
inflicted that injury. These people re-apply for a
license and they're denied, and a policymaker knows
that, then they absolutely are going to come in under
Monell, and I think it's going to be a slam dunk for
them.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we're now going to
have a situation where what you are proposing is that
you have to sue the individual actor, get a ruling on
the constitutionality of whatever is being done, and
then let that suit finish and ask the municipality to
perform or not perform, and if it doesn't, then you
relitigate all these issues?
MR. COATES: In the second lawsuit, the
municipality is being held liable for its
unconstitutional conduct. That's because the injury in
the second case is absolutely inflicted as a result of a
municipal policy, custom, or practice. That's why.
It's fairly attributable there. In the first one,
you're talking about an injury that has been inflicted
by the employee. You know, I see the significant point
here, again -- and the Ninth Circuit Court recognizes
because, again, it didn't apply Monell in granting
declaratory relief and issuing the attorneys' fees. It
conspicuously did not.
It expressly reserved the Monell issue in
the main opinion. It did so because, on rehearing -
the initial opinion didn't say anything about Monell.
On rehearing, we pointed out that those issues were
still open, more specifically the issue of whether we
were even free under California law to create these
additional procedures. That issue remains in this case.
It's a significant issue. Even the Ninth Circuit admits
that.
JUSTICE ALITO: But whether you were free to
do it or not under California law, how can there not -
how can it not be your policy that you have refused to
provide these procedures which they say are
constitutionally required? Your policy is to follow an
arguably unconstitutional State requirement, rather than
comply with what is arguably required by the
Constitution. Why isn't that a policy?
Now, all that's at stake is -- and, of
course, it's a matter of practical importance, but all
that's at stake is a monetary dispute between the State
of California and the County of Los Angeles, which, as
far as the federal Constitution is concerned, is the
same thing as the State of California. So why should we
be concerned about this at all? I don't understand why
there's not a policy here.
MR. COATES: For a couple of reasons. The
lower courts in talking about this issue in the context
of Monell claims against local public entities have
said, look, if you are just enforcing State law, if you
have no discretion, you're not really making a conscious
decision, you have to do this under State law, you're
essentially acting as an arm of the State Eleventh
Amendment Ex parte Young. I think we cite the Bockes
case, which is an employment case where they sued a
local entity for employment decisions that were dictated
by a State board.
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, but all that's involved
is money between -- between California and a creature of
California. As far as the Federal Constitution is
concerned, California could abolish the County of Los
Angeles. California could subsidize you for your
attorneys' fees, or they could levy some sort of -
something upon you and require you to pay them
additional money. None of that -- what's the
constitutional concern in all of that?
MR. COATES: Well, the constitutional
concern is that it injects a Federal court directly into
the way that municipalities operate under California
law. I mean, injunctive relief -- it's even worse. To
issue an injunction against the County saying you have
to do these procedural protections, notwithstanding the
fact that the State says you shouldn't be able to do
that, is inviting a lack of uniformity in these
procedures throughout the State, and the State might
want uniformity.
If you hold a local public entity
automatically liable for declaratory injunctive relief
for -- for enforcing State law, you really have
circumstances where a local entity is going to say: We
don't need this fight. We're not going to enforce this
law. It may be defensible, but it's not on our dime.
And then you get local entities not
enforcing State law, and that seems to be a significant
State interest. And I submit that these are the kind of
federalism principles that, you know, Mozell -- Monell
is designed to take into account.
JUSTICE ALITO: But do you think that the
Federal court has to decide the issue of California law,
namely whether you have freedom under this particular
statute to add additional procedures to the California
statute?
MR. COATES: They'll have to say whether
we -- yes, I believe they will, to determine whether
it's, in fact, a county policy or custom.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why isn't that something
that ought to be decided in State court? Why isn't this
a beef between the State and the State's creature, the
County of Los Angeles?
MR. COATES: It's very much like the
McMillian -- the McMillian case, Your Honor, with the -
the -- the State sheriff in Alabama, who's a county
sheriff, and the question was, for Monell purposes, does
he act on behalf of the State or does he act on behalf
of the county? And the Court said that determination is
informed by State law. It ends up being a question of
Federal law, but it is informed by State law.
So, the short answer is that the court does
that all the time in Monell damages actions -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And California itself or
the Ninth Circuit had a case in which the county sheriff
was directed by a judge to garnish certain wages or
certain accounts; the sheriff had no choice, apparently,
other than to follow the judge; and the Ninth Circuit
held Monell is not required when you seek declaratory
relief against future actions, and so attorneys' fees
are given.
MR. COATES: Correct. Correct. That's the
Chaloux case in which they said that Monell simply
doesn't apply. We're not going to ask whether he's
acting as a State official or a county official -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It doesn't make any
difference?
MR. COATES: It doesn't make any difference
to the Ninth Circuit. Other circuits have been very
careful in drawing that distinction as to how county
officers -- how counties function.
As I noted, I think this goes to important
principles of federalism. It goes right into the way
the States interact with their local governments. And
it can have a profound impact on the way in which local
governments view their obligation to enforce State law.
If the Court has no further questions, I
would submit the matter.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 1:56 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
adopted 12:19 31:7 apparently 55:22 53:22 55:25 44:12,14 45:4,8
affect 4:10 26:3 APPEARANCES authority 19:5 bring 19:19 29:7
11:19 38:15
13:4 14:17 48:2 52:3 56:4 32:13 36:18,24 California 1:3,15
26:20 27:5,13 applying 17:7 49:12 41:17 45:9,9,13 12:9 13:16 14:9,18
46:22 appropriate 15:24 46:21 14:20,25 15:3,12
52:15 53:17 16:18,23 21:15 backwards 49:18 15:16 52:11,16
55:5 49:14 bad 42:17 53:1,3,18,19,20
28:24
43:1
argument 1:12 2:2,5 behalf 1:16,17 2:4,7 careful 56:10
25:17 26:19
15:3,25 20:17 24:1 20:18 49:10 55:13 4:24 7:5 8:11,21
33:8 55:18
49:9 believe 6:7,22 7:3 12:10 13:3 14:1,11
54:25
articulated 17:16 Bivens 5:23 18:25 33:16,18 35:3,17
23:16 42:2
15:4 53:1 asks 22:9 board 53:16 41:18 42:1 45:7
52:12 53:24
55:8 assuming 34:8 50:5 Bockes 53:13 48:25 49:3 51:22
31:20 40:17 28:11,23 46:18,24 bound 12:13 55:10,20 56:3,20
55:17 Attorney 13:21 box 48:17 56:21
18:3 22:10 42:21 42:19 concerns 7:6 14:12 continue 7:21 43:3
28:14,17 choosing 12:16 clearly 33:13 concluded 36:14 44:7 47:10
42:18 48:3,19 42:22 clerk 27:9,16 29:5 44:6 continued 41:21
Circuit 3:16,24,25 29:12,14 30:3,5,19 conclusion 33:22 continues 31:3
20:23 32:9,24,24 33:3,20 Coates 1:15 2:3,9 31:7 32:18,18 controversy 37:14
36:8,18,19,22,24 3:5,6,8 4:11,16,22 44:11 46:7,16 47:8 correct 5:5,10 6:7
24:8 26:15 47:20,25 52:2,13 5:5,9,13,21,25 6:6 51:21 6:13 10:4,14 18:2
28:17 32:14 55:20,23 56:9 6:13,17,22 7:3,13 conform 18:11 23:19 34:9 35:1
33:14,17,25 circuits 56:9 7:17,24 8:3,8,20 confronted 33:6 50:20 56:2,2
37:24 39:19 Circuit's 17:9 9:11,16 10:4,10,14 37:17,17 counsel 20:15 24:14
48:16 49:18 circumstance 7:11 10:21 11:9,22 confused 22:16 49:5 56:19
circumstances 13:21 15:2,7,12,24 19:6 20:8 counts 31:14
50:18 51:4 54:14 19:13,24 20:6 49:7 conscious 53:10 4:16 9:4 10:7,20
city 19:16 21:2 22:9 51:19 53:6 54:1 44:9 16:23 17:1 22:23
26:10 46:16 29:20 30:7,8,9,13 coercing 18:22 conspicuously 52:5 53:20 54:5 55:4,8
34:16 35:19,20,23 collect 39:24 40:3 52:22 53:2,19 County's 14:7
42:8,10,20 43:1,6 17:25 38:11 47:13 16:12 19:19 20:7 course 25:18 52:24
46:12,24 47:21 comment 24:9 46:5 49:21,23,25 16:25 17:16,20
20:15,19 50:6 complaining 46:23 constitutionality 26:18 28:2,7,22
25:4,13,14 civil 6:6 complaint 40:6,19 51:15 29:1 35:2,5 36:4
26:7 31:22 claim 7:4 11:12 20:7 completeness 8:15 constitutionally 36:13 45:5 46:8,11
36:5,17 20:12 39:14,17,23 9:9,13 14:20 52:19 46:15 47:4 50:25
37:2,6,25 44:17 comply 14:22 52:21 contend 12:5 52:2 54:2,23 55:6
40:15,17,23 claimed 37:20 concede 11:5 contest 16:14 55:14,17 56:17
42:8,10 claims 4:1 12:4 conceded 16:12 contested 5:6,9 courts 12:20 22:16
44:2 18:24 20:25 36:23 concern 22:6,16 15:20 24:11 32:15 47:2
46:9,19,21 53:8 28:16 31:17 37:24 contesting 5:8 47:18 53:7
50:11 56:19 clarify 23:6 53:25 54:2 context 12:21 20:25 Court's 3:24 8:11
55:6 determine 16:7 E 53:15 54:11,14
52:11 decision 11:11 determined 3:19 easy 22:9,15 23:8 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3,6,9
17:2,11 18:6,23 26:23 33:2 difference 23:8 27:5 Eleventh 13:3 53:12 et 1:6 30:24
24:4,5 33:10 36:12 49:17 39:11 47:5 56:7,8 elucidated 20:24 evaluating 8:22
38:6 52:4 54:12 55:24 different 21:10 elucidating 21:6 event 33:17
43:8,11,25 declared 11:17 36:23,25 37:19,21 employee 21:3 41:5 ex 3:17 5:12,14 13:2
51:23 55:4 declined 12:2 50:11 41:14,21 43:20 13:4,9 24:19 25:10
defending 40:24 direct 6:6 example 6:20 8:3
21:1 36:25 defense 19:19 directing 45:15 25:2 26:24 27:9
defensible 54:16 directly 18:22 54:2 30:18 37:10 41:17
39:2,5,10,12 define 34:6 discretion 12:12 47:5 48:25 49:12
defined 9:22 53:10 49:20
48:4,6 deliberate 8:9 11:11 dismiss 46:24 examples 27:8
deliberative 47:5 dispute 52:25 exception 4:9
14:3 denied 7:23 27:19 28:25 41:19 exercise 18:19
16:5,8,9 30:5 51:8 divide 14:14 45:16
denies 27:16 dog 49:17 exhaustion 28:2
34:20 37:12 denying 6:9 27:11 42:16 44:3 45:11 exists 40:10
54:17
38:9 Department 3:10 dollars 4:23 expeditious 22:21
41:19 13:17,22,23 door 9:1 experience 33:7
34:12 37:23
43:19,22
47:14 48:20
43:10 44:7 designed 54:21 dunk 51:10 extent 25:1
54:23 determination 11:7 D.C 1:8,17 extra 28:22 48:17
40:9 42:22 finish 51:16 GINSBURG 5:1,7 happened 22:19 impliedly 19:7
46:17,20 first 19:18 32:6 15:10,17 16:11 43:7 importance 52:24
55:4 37:11 51:24 17:24 32:23 47:19 happens 7:8 15:22 important 4:5 14:13
flatly 4:4 given 34:22 56:1 36:16 43:24 47:17 impose 17:10 33:25
35:11 32:17 37:6 41:17 44:18 hearing 16:6 36:18 inaccurate 9:17
52:19 55:23 goes 47:12 56:12,13 held 3:11 20:23 21:2 inapt 24:12
20:5 53:2,19 forget 30:25 29:13 30:17,18,19 helpful 32:16 incremental 33:25
55:16 forms 33:5 36:7,9 38:1,20,23 history 18:13 indefinite 43:4
17:23 54:20 16:3 17:8 33:2 41:13 42:12,18,23 54:11 19:24
38:1,23 39:2 42:23 43:1 47:17,25 48:1 holding 25:23 27:1,1 index 34:23
foundation 11:18 51:9,10,12 54:14 19:3 21:23 22:14 indifferent 47:9
15:20,20 19:22 33:9 going-forward 37:22 25:12 26:12 27:7 individual 6:9,14,17
48:5,8,9,13 free 12:6 14:8,9 good 42:16 47:17 29:25 31:2,17 32:2 7:9 41:5 51:14
52:4 16:8 52:11,15 governing 23:22 33:11 35:10,13 inflicted 3:14,14
55:25 freedom 54:24 governments 56:14 36:11 37:7 39:12 49:15 51:7,22,25
I 16:2,18 19:17,20
H impermissible 47:3 injunctive 4:1 6:11
18:6,23 Justice 3:3,8 4:8,13 32:4,8,11 55:19 license 5:17 6:9,20 11:22 27:17 28:25
31:6 33:3,10 4:20,24 5:1,7,11 56:6 6:21 7:11,23 8:1 44:17 52:24 56:18
39:6,9 50:3 5:16,23 6:3,8,15 kept 11:16 27:9,16,19 28:6 56:22
6:19 7:1,8,15,20 kind 8:25 11:1 17:9 29:6 30:6 31:4 McMillian 55:10,10
51:7,21,25 11:13 12:10 13:4,6 54:19 31:3 40:1 41:4,9 44:14
48:4,7 53:17 34:15,24 35:4,7,11 44:23 52:11,16 look 21:14 28:3 12:4,6 14:12 17:7
25:25 31:25 41:17,24 42:8,10 28:10 29:7 31:4 lose 16:25 29:13 26:22 27:21 29:9
53:7 43:5,18,22 44:2,12 38:17,19 43:13 lower 12:20 32:15 30:21,25 32:16,17
44:14 45:4,8,18 46:17 47:2 51:19 36:13 53:7 32:25 33:1,2,4,7,8
41:19 51:18 46:22 47:19,24 44:9 Lyons 28:14 42:5 36:21 37:3,4,10
48:23 49:5,7,19 leaving 32:25,25 38:2 42:13 45:23
52:15 53:17 left 15:21 49:8 main 52:7 51:10 52:3,6,8
45:20 letting 47:10 making 12:25 36:8 Monell/the 33:24
K liability 3:11 6:2 manner 14:13 money 18:18 48:4,5
22:18 5:23 6:3,15,19 7:1 18:17 36:25 48:1 6:20 27:9,11,16 motion 16:18
25:21 28:18 18:25 19:4,11,14 liable 11:21 42:12 28:6 31:3,4 49:20 motivating 4:6
32:17 20:4 22:7,25 23:7 51:6,20 54:12 matter 1:11 10:19 move 15:8 16:3
27:17,18 O owes 15:20 32:10,13 33:11 51:23 52:17,19,22
38:11 O 2:1 3:1 34:10,14,19 35:2,5 53:5 55:4
40:25 objection 5:2 P 35:10,13,17 36:3 policymaker 10:7
obligation 8:18 P 3:1 36:11,19,22 37:5,7 10:11,20 11:10
19:1 26:4 obtain 22:3 part 5:2 24:21 31:19 40:1,13,16,18 41:7 28:21 38:12,14
obtuse 23:2 parte 5:12,14 13:2,4 41:16,25 42:9,24 50:18 51:8
7:14,15,21 October 1:9 25:16 26:9,13,16 45:3,5,12,18,24 47:8
18:17 21:5,8 offensive 6:10 26:19 53:13 46:2,6,14,20 47:1 policymaking 8:4,9
23:24 28:5,15 officer 6:9 particular 21:2 22:1 47:23 48:10 49:2,6 portion 12:3
49:15,22 officers 56:11 38:8 54:24 51:4 portions 20:9
official 8:4,9 24:19 party 16:10 19:17 plain 11:17 position 25:15 32:13
40:16,20 19:18 28:4 51:5 plaintiff 3:13 10:23 38:18 42:3,11
23:23 26:19 42:3,4 44:6,6 perfect 25:2 please 3:9 20:20 power 18:20 44:22
34:1 36:14 one-off 30:2 31:19 perfectly 16:8 point 15:23 16:22,25 44:23,25 45:6
ongoing 10:9 21:10 perform 51:17,17 17:5 23:2 46:23 practical 52:24
54:15 33:18,23 34:7,11 permitting 31:8 policies 9:5 17:11 22:13 24:4,5
10:25 11:23 30:24 33:1 52:10 persons 26:17 17:2,11 22:10 24:4 42:23 43:8,25
18:5 23:18 operate 54:3 petitioned 48:11 24:5 27:19,20,24 44:24 46:13 51:23
operative 6:23 Petitioner 1:4,16 2:4 27:25 28:20,24 precise 40:14
36:8,17,19 opinion 52:7,8 2:10 3:7 26:15 29:3,10,11,13,14 precisely 21:6 40:8
47:20,24 opposed 38:9 50:20 49:10 30:7,8,9,16,20,23 preclude 48:13,14
55:20,23 oral 1:11 2:2,5 3:6 Petitioner's 25:15 31:7,14,15,23,25 present 22:15 23:17
20:17 26:1 35:8,20,24 37:14 presumably 10:5
17:12 21:7 29:9,23 20:16,17,19 21:23 38:20 40:12,25 presume 27:17
45:14 53:6 remedies 19:25 28:3 20:6
54:20 public 3:12,15 8:25 recognize 32:20 remove 9:17,21 Respondents 1:18
18:4,20 51:5,6 recognized 6:1 8:24 11:20 16:20 34:8 2:7 10:1 14:19
35:24 pursue 13:14 record 15:23 16:7 responsibility 9:9
16:20 54:6 puzzled 10:16 referring 7:14 13:25 responsible 8:14
12:14 registry 11:17 34:9 9:15 13:17 44:18
14:4,8,10,19 question 14:13 15:14 require 9:4 10:25 retention 8:15,19
16:6 34:8 20:22 21:9,24 26:9 rehearing 52:7,9 14:3 21:21,22,24 9:10,13
52:12,18 26:20 29:5,18 rejected 33:4 26:8,8 53:23 retrospective 31:19
31:23 32:15,25 rejection 18:15 required 12:13,17 32:18 47:6
37:12 38:14 37:10,13,21 40:13 relevant 29:2 22:1,5 24:6,8 right 5:4,20 7:6 8:12
40:20 41:17,22 relief 3:17,21 4:1,2 26:15 28:2 32:14 10:3 13:7 21:20
22:3,3,10 29:1 31:5,6,11 39:14 41:10 42:2 rights 34:21
26:22 33:2,3,3,5,10,24 46:25 48:16 52:20 rise 40:24
32:18 37:23 34:13 37:23 38:1,1 requirements 4:3 ROBERTS 3:3 11:5
42:1 43:14 39:17,21 42:1 43:2 17:21 33:24 48:18 13:6,9 20:15 23:25
47:14 43:6,14,15,23 requires 6:24 12:22 25:4,14,18 26:7
49:13 47:14 48:14,21 23:11 30:7 36:2 31:22 35:15,18
16:20 54:6 54:4,12 55:25 requiring 29:23 37:25 38:16 40:15
23:14,14 relying 21:20 requisites 40:2 42:8,10 43:5,18,22
22:7,8,18,20
34:2,24 remain 12:4 reserve 20:14 44:2 46:9,19,21
53:10 54:13
37:22 52:18 remanded 12:3 resolve 19:21 48:12
25:2 27:21 shoes 12:24 7:15,20,25 8:6,12 54:13,18,19 55:6,7 suffer 43:3
34:1 36:6,15 short 55:17 9:7,12 11:13 13:15 55:11,13,15,16 suffered 3:20 34:21
37:3 39:6 show 8:1 21:7 22:2,2 13:19 24:14,17,24 56:5,16 sufficient 21:4,7
47:11,15 23:12,13 29:10,11 25:6,8 34:3,11,15 statement 25:13 34:22 46:11
29:18 34:23,25 34:24 35:4,7,11 32:12 33:4 suit 5:13 28:5 30:24
25:1 31:14 44:24 41:17 statute 5:15 6:23 7:2 51:16
37:9 38:4 showed 7:18 sought 22:11 9:2 15:4 16:9 suits 26:13
50:17 54:5 showing 9:19,19 sounds 50:7 19:23 33:14 44:15 superior 18:12
41:1,20 shown 21:25 22:1 specific 9:1 54:25 55:1 suppose 6:12 26:21
50:19 23:20,23 24:3 specifically 50:19 statute's 11:2 44:6
54:7 35:25 36:21 38:5 52:10 statutory 9:25 14:6 supposed 22:17
6:8 21:19 side 24:2 split 17:13 step 28:22 sure 22:25 24:16
38:22 39:1,8 significant 48:22 squarely 33:13 stick 43:10 34:17 45:17 46:14
40:5 45:18 52:1,13 54:18 stake 20:22 48:3,12 stop 24:14 46:19,19
similar 21:22 26:21 52:23,25 strictly 19:3 suspect 4:21,24
12:18 13:5 17:7 49:13 subject 3:21 4:2 T 1:15 2:1,1,3,9 3:6
15:18 24:18 standing 12:23 22:2 14:25 17:3 18:9,10 49:9
31:20 23:21 36:13 20:12 43:20 tail 49:16
51:13 stands 14:6 submission 23:1,17 take 11:5 21:14
7:4 8:13 18:9
19:3 20:1,7
15:1,12,19,22 16:3 subsidize 53:21 44:19 45:1
16:14,17,19 19:17 substantial 3:18 tells 8:13
40:17 41:20 24:19 25:5,17 6:10,14,15 13:15 28:24 48:17
40:7,7 2:9 3:6 49:9 V We'll 3:3 20:12,23 26:14,16
Title 7:5 v 1:5 3:4,10 we're 4:18 7:13 33:24
49:5,6 56:19 told 11:15 43:9 vehicle 26:16 33:1 36:8,8,9 1986 20:10
49:16 56:16
48:8,10 50:8 totally 12:13 we've 47:7 2002 37:14
53:3 trial 4:19 whatsoever 11:19 2006 37:17 38:18
14:11 17:4 trying 9:5 20:1,21 violating 27:11 worse 54:4
2:4
20:11 21:11 25:8 35:8 46:9 violation 6:4 7:22 wouldn't 8:6 12:11
23:10 24:1 Tuesday 1:9 18:11 21:3,17 22:2 19:22 21:21 26:10 4
25:24 turn 26:12 23:14,20 28:9,14 40:11 42nd 18:13
27:7 28:1 turning 37:3 28:19 33:19,23 wrong 11:15,17 49 2:10
30:11 31:24 turns 42:25 34:7,18,19,21,25 29:15 30:21 33:9
33:20 twice 35:3,5 35:20 38:2 39:20 33:12 36:18 41:20 5
35:10,13 two 30:4 36:23 45:3 42:2,4 43:3 44:20 45:4,25 5 1:9
36:22 type 7:4 50:8 violations 21:11 wrongfully 34:23
39:11 types 20:10 26:5 6
41:2,14,16 X 600-and-some-odd
44:8 45:6 U x 1:2,7 51:1 4:22
46:2,2,3,4 Uh-huh 34:10 virtue 28:10 31:6 Y 8
47:1,3 48:11 unacceptable 26:25 46:17 years 34:20
49:2,11,15 uncertain 25:22 83 19:3 20:2
unclear 17:14
W
12:15,16 25:10,16 26:9,13 9 34:20
53:13 54:22 wages 55:21
28:8 41:3,12 26:16,19 53:13 90 5:3
wagging 49:16
42:25 90-10 17:13
underscores 14:11 Washington 1:8,17 09-350 1:5 3:4
43:4,13 55:18 United 1:1,12 37:16 47:3 50:24 13 49:8
