IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
PAUL RENICO, WARDEN, :
Petitioner : No. 09-338
v. :
REGINALD LETT :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, March 29, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JOEL D. McGORMLEY, ESQ., Lansing, Michigan; on behalf of
Petitioner.
MARLA R. McCOWAN, ESQ., Assistant Defender, Detroit,
Michigan; on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JOEL D. McGORMLEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MARLA R. McCOWAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JOEL D. McGORMLEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 09-338,
Renico v. Lett.
Mr. McGormley.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOEL D. McGORMLEY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. McGORMLEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
Because this is a habeas case arising from a
murder conviction obtained in the Michigan courts, the
threshold question under AEDPA is whether there is any
clearly established Supreme Court precedent that the
Michigan Supreme Court objectively, unreasonably applied
in rejecting Mr. Lett's claims that the trial court had
abused its discretion in -- in discharging the jury due
to deadlock.
The Sixth Circuit second-guessed on habeas,
ignored deference under AEDPA, as well as the broad
discretion, due the trial court determination. Here
there was a note suggesting acrimonious deliberations
received early on in the second day of deliberations,
followed by a second note suggesting a deadlock after
approximately 10 hours of trial testimony and 4 hours of
deliberations.
The trial court at that time engaged the
foreperson in a colloquy, a two-part colloquy, in which
the foreperson not only confirmed the content of the
first note, but also confirmed the existence of a
deadlock.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. The content
of the first note was a query of the court. And that
query was: "What happens if we can't reach a verdict?"
Isn't that substantially different? Doesn't that
suggest that the jury is trying to figure out what are
the consequences of its actions and whether reaching a
consensus is possible?
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, Justice Sotomayor, the
first note was the note regarding our raised voices
disturbing other proceedings. The second note
regards -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. How long
before that last note was that?
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, the Michigan Supreme
Court refers to that as early on in the second day of
deliberations. And then there is approximately 3 hours
and 15 more minutes of deliberations, because after the
second note -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Did anybody hear the
voices?
MR. McGORMLEY: The record doesn't disclose,
doesn't disclose that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me what
facts found by the lower courts or the trial courts show
that the Court acted, quote, and this is from our
earlier Perez case, the very first in this area,
"deliberately, responsibly, and not precipitously" in
declaring a mistrial. What in the facts you have
recited -
MR. McGORMLEY: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- show that activity?
MR. McGORMLEY: Justice Sotomayor, the first
point I would make is that, of course, this is on habeas
review, and so the -- the Michigan Supreme Court made
factual findings here that would be due deference.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What is the factual
finding that you think we have to give deference to? I
know the facts you've recited. There don't appear to be
any of the facts with respect to what occurred during
the activity. So what factual finding do we have to
give deference to?
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, the factual finding by
the Michigan Supreme Court that -- that there appeared
to be acrimonious deliberations. That's a factual
finding due deference under (e)(1).
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But I'm not sure how
that finding supports the finding, or a finding, that
the Court was acting deliberately, responsibly, and not
precipitously.
MR. McGORMLEY: Going back to this Court's
opinion in Perez, considering sound judgment,
discretion, considering all the circumstances, here we
have to look at the totality of the circumstances in
that it was a relatively short trial, that we have a
note that could be reasonably interpreted as acrimonious
deliberations, the second note that could be reasonably
construed as a deadlock.
And then the trial court did not declare a
mistrial at that point. Rather, the trial court brings
the jury out and engages in a colloquy. And in that
colloquy, the trial court accepts the foreperson's
answer at her word. And that is: "Are you going to be
able to reach unanimous verdict?" The answer being:
"No." And in fact, it's the Sixth Circuit who
second-guessed in this case by saying: You can't place
that much weight on that statement by the foreperson.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because the foreperson at
first hesitated. When the court asked the question,
"Are you going to reach a unanimous verdict or not,"
then there's no response. And then the court says, "Yes
or no?" And only at that second point does the
foreperson say "no." So it was a reluctant "no."
MR. McGORMLEY: I don't necessarily believe
it was a reluctant no.
JUSTICE SCALIA: She might have been
sneezing. I mean, we don't know what caused the pause,
do we?
MR. McGORMLEY: That's correct,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that's another factor
in this. We have the transcript. Are you urging that,
because the trial court judge was there on the spot, saw
the jury, worked with the jury, that that's something
that deserves a special measure of respect?
MR. McGORMLEY: Absolutely,
Justice Ginsburg. And this Court has qualified that as
broad discretion and special respect due the trial court
determination, after the trial court is the one viewing
the jury in real time. So absolutely. And in fact,
this -- this risk of coercion was recognized also by
this Court in Arizona v. Washington.
JUSTICE ALITO: May I ask you another
question about what happened?
After the foreperson said: No, Judge, we
are not going to reach a unanimous verdict, the judge
says: All right, I hereby declare a mistrial; the jury
is dismissed. And then the next entry in the transcript
that we have is: Well, Mr. Gordon snuck away before we
could set a new trial date. Now, Mr. Gordon was defense
-- was the defense attorney?
MR. McGORMLEY: Correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: So when did he leave? Do we
know when he left? He was present when the judge said
that she was going to declare a mistrial?
MR. McGORMLEY: Correct. But I don't know
that minute or so gap. I don't know when Mr. Gordon
snuck out.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me, along the
line of -- the same line of questioning, I understand
about AEDPA. I understand about deference, the
jurisdictions. Just tell me a little bit about how this
often works in State courts and in Federal courts?
Would it be good practice, in your view -
and that may not control your case, but would it be good
practice for the -- a judge to have had exactly this
colloquy and then say: The jurors are dismissed while I
talk with counsel. And you say: Counsel, in light of
this response, I am prepared to declare a mistrial. Do
you have any comment?
Is that good practice?
MR. McGORMLEY: It may be good practice, but
the question becomes whether it's constitutionally
required.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm asking -- I'm asking
if it's good practice as a general practice.
MR. McGORMLEY: I would say -- well, in this
Court -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because -- because that
will bear, ultimately, on a constitutional issue. I
understand deference. I understand that all intendments
are in favor of what the State Supreme Court found. I'm
just -- I want you to tell me how it works out there in
the real world?
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, I believe that
discussion with counsel is a factor in -- in the
consideration. I don't dispute that. But this Court
has never held that it's a requirement.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if, in fact, there
isn't -- what if both Counsel say, no, you should not
declare a mistrial? Can the judge go ahead and declare
a mistrial?
MR. McGORMLEY: Absolutely. And here -- and
here's why.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not a very big fact.
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, it's important in the
coercion context, because certainly the trial court has
an independent obligation to ensure a just judgment.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That independent
obligation is not reinforced by getting counsel's views
just as a matter of good practice?
MR. McGORMLEY: It may be. It may be
reinforced in certain circumstances, but again, we are
looking at the totality of the circumstances when we
have a note indicating acrimony, a note indicating
deadlock, and then the colloquy in which there's an
unequivocal -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, certainly it's good
practice. If both counsel agree that there is manifest
necessity for a mistrial, then there isn't going to be a
double jeopardy issue in the case, isn't that right?
MR. McGORMLEY: Correct. Under Dennis, if
the defendant consents, then there is no double
jeopardy.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was there an objection here
by counsel for the defendant?
MR. McGORMLEY: No. No, there wasn't. But,
you know, the colloquy is relatively short. But no, I
believe the defendant's counsel could have objected.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, there was a ruling
by the court: I hereby declare a mistrial. I suppose
you could have an objection, but it would be very -- the
jury was present when the judge said: I hereby declare
the mistrial.
MR. McGORMLEY: Correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it would be rather
awkward for the counsel at that is point.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was no -- there was
no pause, you agree, between the foreperson's report and
the court then said immediately afterward: The jury is
dismissed. So there was no interval for an objection?
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, it -- it would be
difficult for counsel to object at that point, but I
still think counsel could have made a record immediately
at that point.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why would it have been
difficult? Why would it be difficult for counsel to
say, may we have a sidebar, and say, Your Honor, I don't
think that there should be a mistrial, I think you
should ask the jury to deliberate further?
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, that is possible and
that as seen in the Webb case as well, where the trial
court -- this is a circuit court -
JUSTICE STEVENS: What do you make of the
fact that in subsequent proceedings the prosecutor
acknowledged that the judge made a mistake?
MR. McGORMLEY: In Michigan confessions of
error are controlled by court rule as a procedural
matter, and the appellate courts have the ability to
accept statements that could be qualified as a
confession of error or not. Here the Michigan Supreme
Court addressed this case on the merits, the underlying
double jeopardy merits. In much the same way, it did
not address potential waiver or consent issues by the
defendant. So we have a merits opinion here.
JUSTICE BREYER: There are thousands and
thousands of mistrials every year and hung juries are
not all that unusual. So in this case we have testimony
going on for 4 days, 10 hours total. And we have jury
deliberation of 4-1/2 hours, and we have really very
little -- I think you can argue it both ways that the
jury was deadlocked. There are some things for, some
against, only a couple.
And he doesn't consult with the lawyer, all
right. Now, in these thousands and thousands of cases
that must be there over the decades, you probably looked
through a few or at least talked to your fellow bar
members. How many have you found where you would say
that a mistrial was declared despite facts that are on
your side? In other words, there are going to be
millions of cases, not millions but thousands; many of
them will support the defense. Maybe many support you.
But I haven't seen any here that say they support you.
So how many do? And what do you want me to read to see
that this is not an extreme case that counts as an abuse
of the judge's discretion? How many did you find which
will prove to me this is not, this is closer to the
norm?
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, the difficult part in
answering Your Honor's question is that this Court has
indicated that there is no mechanical formula or test.
JUSTICE BREYER: Correct. That's why I am
asking the question. What they've said is, is it an
abuse of discretion? And they've also said the judge
has to be careful. Okay, so we have like an abuse of
discretion scale and this is pretty far over on the
abuse of discretion side. I think anyone would admit.
But what cases will show to me that it's on your side,
not quite an abuse of discretion? Or is this the most
extreme case in history?
MR. McGORMLEY: I don't believe it is, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know you don't believe
it. All I want you to do is to give me some evidence,
like refer me to some other cases or explain to me how
you have come to that conclusion, not on the facts of
this case, but looking on the scale.
MR. McGORMLEY: I reach that conclusion by
looking at this Court's other language, for instance -
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't want you to look at
this Court. We don't have a case where we said what was
an abuse of discretion. I want you to tell me -- and
I've already said this twice, but I am judging from your
answer you found no case supporting it. You have found
no case in the history of the United States that was
more extreme than this -
MR. McGORMLEY: I have not -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- where they said it
wasn't an abuse of discretion. That's what I'm judging
from your answer.
MR. McGORMLEY: I have not found a case on
these facts with a note indicating acrimonious
deliberations, that is correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: There is no note
indicating. There are five, there are notes they sent
out, and at 9:30 in the morning they said: Judge, we
have a concern about our voice levels, disturbing.
That's what they said. Then they asked to see the
evidence and they said: Explain Count 2.
Then they said: Are we allowed to break?
And then they said: What if we can't agree? Mistrial,
retrial, what? And at 12:27, the same time, they said:
What about lunch?
Then he brought them out and he says to the
juror: All right, do you believe it's hopelessly
deadlocked? And the foreperson said: The majority of
us don't believe that. And he said: Don't say what
you're going to say. And then he doesn't have the
lawyer there.
Okay, that's fairly extreme. So that's why
I ask the question.
MR. McGORMLEY: But the reference there
about don't say what you're going to say is likely a
reference to don't give the breakdown of your verdict.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. McGormley, is it your
burden to answer that question? Given AEDPA, is it up
to you to show that this case is within the mainstream
or is it up to the other side to show rather
conclusively that it is not in the mainstream? I
thought that's what AEDPA required.
MR. McGORMLEY: It is Petitioner's burden.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is Petitioner's burden
to show that there are cases like this, where I guess to
show that uniformly in cases like this, there is no
discharge of the jury. And I'm not aware that they have
carried that burden. But we will ask when they come up.
It is their burden, however.
JUSTICE BREYER: Exactly but I'm drawing
some conclusions from your silence. You haven't found a
case supporting it?
MR. McGORMLEY: I haven't found a case on
these facts, but that's consistent -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Have you found any case
where a judge has declared a mistrial without conferring
with counsel, where the declaration was upheld?
MR. McGORMLEY: Actually, there's one out of
the Sixth Circuit, Klein v. Leis, from this very
circuit, in which the individual -- it was not a
deadlocked jury case, but the individual had some sort
of stun or control belt on the defendant and he lifted
it up, and the trial court -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well you can't read from
that one, because in that one it was -- the mistrial was
held, not because of a jury deadlock, but because of
improper prejudicial actions during the trial.
MR. McGORMLEY: But that's -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Those are different
questions.
MR. McGORMLEY: But it's still a manifest
necessity determination. In fact, this Court has
indicated that on the spectrum of reasons a deadlocked
jury warrants the least amount of appellate scrutiny.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you -- yes, but
that doesn't mean none.
What -- other than we have cases where
judges have declared mistrials because they are going on
vacation. Those are easy, okay?
But somewhere the word "abuse of discretion"
means that someone has discretion, but is improperly
exercising it. What facts would it take for you to
believe that that would have been the case? What do you
have to take out of this case to say, ah, that was -
that would have been an abuse of discretion? What
point? If he got the note and declared a mistrial, that
would be enough, right? Or would it?
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, to best answer Your
Honor's question, I would point out again that in
Arizona this Court mentioned that examples being of
abuse of discretion or actions that cannot be condoned
are when the trial court acts irrationally,
irresponsibly, or for pretextual reasons. And in our
yellow brief we cited several cases where I would say
the Court was correct to find an abuse of discretion -
the Starling case in which the jury is giving a contrary
indication. The jury in the Starling case indicated
that, we are making progress and in fact can we have 15
more minutes; and the judge pulse them out and declares
a mistrial.
Your Honor's example then with the Gordy
case would be the imminent travel plans and docket
considerations.
We also have where the court acts sua
sponte, and that's where -- the Webb case, where the
trial court -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why isn't that this one,
meaning the jury doesn't say, we are deadlocked,
hopelessly deadlocked, we cannot reach a verdict. It
asks: What happens if we don't? And the foreperson
hasn't conferred with the jury to determine whether or
not as a group they believe they are hopelessly
deadlocked. Why isn't this precipitous action?
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, again, as I -- as I
mentioned, it's a reasonable view of the first note that
it is indicative of acrimony. It's a reasonable view of
the second note that it was indicative of a deadlock.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But again, that's --that's
not your burden. We are operating here under a statute
which says: "In a proceeding instituted by an
application for a writ of habeas corpus by a person in
custody pursuant to the judgment of a State court, a
determination of a factual issue made by a State court
shall be presumed to be correct. The applicant shall
have the burden of rebutting the presumption of
correctness by clear and convincing evidence."
Now, what is the factual
determination that has been made here? I assume it's
the factual determination that the jury was deadlocked.
MR. McGORMLEY: That is correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that has to be rebutted
by clear and convincing evidence, correct?
MR. McGORMLEY: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why didn't you answer that
to those questions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what is the status of
the -- the Allen charge in Michigan? Has Michigan taken
a position on whether that's a good thing, a permissible
thing for a trial court to do?
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, a -- Michigan has
adopted the ABA standard. Michigan has the Instruction
3.12. It's not what we would call the traditional Allen
dynamite charge because it's not asking the minority to
give credence to the majority's opinion. So there is a
deadlocked jury instruction in Michigan. It's not the
traditional Allen dynamite charge.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that wasn't
requested, either?
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, that was not -- that
was not done here. But again, I think it's reasonable,
understanding that this is a dual -- dual-layered
deference case, being a habeas case as well as the trial
court being -- having broad discretion to make this
determination, that when you have -- have the notes -- I
mean, it -- it may tell the -- the trial court may have
felt that giving an Allen charge when there's acrimony
may be telling those minority jurors that it doesn't
matter and that they may have to submit to the majority
opinion.
So I believe it was -- it was reasonable for
the Michigan Supreme Court here, applying AEDPA to -- to
conclude that the -- the trial court acted in
conformance with this -
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you as a matter
of Michigan practice, could the trial judge have
interrogated the other jurors beyond the foreman and
asked them what they thought about whether there was a
deadlock?
MR. McGORMLEY: I believe that is
permissible, though not constitutionally required.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is there any reason -- do
you suppose there is any reason why he didn't do that?
MR. McGORMLEY: I believe -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: She.
MR. McGORMLEY: -- she, the trial judge -
JUSTICE STEVENS: He took the view of the
foreman, an answer to one question, and that was it; is
that right?
MR. McGORMLEY: The -
JUSTICE STEVENS: His conclusion that there
was a deadlock was based on one question and one answer
of one of the jurors, and that was the whole record
supporting his decision; is that right?
MR. McGORMLEY: Respectfully, no, Your
Honor. I believe it was based on the totality of the
circumstances, including the two previous notes and a
bifurcated question where -
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, what other
circumstance is relevant? The fact that they raised
their voices during deliberation, certainly that -- that
doesn't cut any ice either way, does it?
MR. McGORMLEY: Well -- oh, I believe it
does, because this Court has indicated in Arizona
that -- that acrimony is a concern. It's a
countervailing concern to balancing the interest of the
defendant having his case decided by a single tribunal
and fair and just judgments, as well as society having
one fair opportunity to vindicate its laws. So I think
it's very much an appropriate consideration.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. McGormley, what
evidence was there to the effect that the jury was not
deadlocked?
MR. McGORMLEY: None.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is presumably what
the other side has to prove by clear and convincing
evidence, if -- if we accept the factual finding of the
State court.
MR. McGORMLEY: Correct. That's why it's
imperative to view this case in the habeas box that it
resides. And that is the Michigan Supreme Court made
reasonable factual determinations and did not
objectively unreasonably apply this Court's precedent.
And the fact that we may look at these notes and go one
way or the other means that the State wins. The State
should prevail, because it's a reasonable interpretation
of those notes. If one person may say, I don't know
that that really indicates deadlock and the Michigan
Supreme Court is looking at it and it's a reasonable
determination, then deference should apply and the State
should prevail.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. McGormley, do we have
any indication how long this trial judge was on the
bench when this trial came up?
MR. McGORMLEY: How long in terms of serving
on the bench?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. McGORMLEY: My recollection is that this
was an experienced trial judge who then went to either
civil arena from recorder's court or retired. So I
believe this was an experienced trial. I don't have the
exact years.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Acrimony, I recognize we
have talked about it in Arizona, but it -- I mean, it
could be that the jurors had all agreed on the murder
count and they were just quarrelling over whether they
should add the firearms count, or the other way around.
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, it -- it -- it gets
back to that fundamental -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In which case they would
be much closer than -- than your comment about acrimony
might indicate.
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, it gets back to the
fundamental principle that the trial court should be
able to take -- now, this is on the second, but the
initial layer of deference -- that the trial court
should be able to take the foreperson at her word when
she says that the jury is deadlocked, the jury is
deadlocked, especially -- especially in light of
these -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You can't say, can you,
that every time the jury records that it can't reach a
verdict or it hasn't reached a unanimous verdict, that
that's a legal deadlock requiring a mistrial, can you?
MR. McGORMLEY: I do not assert that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So obviously the word
"deadlock," and as I read the judge's questions, he
defined it merely as a disagreement as to the verdict.
And later he uses "hopelessly deadlocked," but changes
the question when he asks the foreperson to respond.
Isn't there a difference between hopelessly,
i.e., no further deliberations is likely to reach a
verdict, as opposed to you can't ever reach a verdict?
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, I guess I don't quite
see the difference, because if the jury is in -- I -- I
think hopelessly deadlocked is probably a higher
standard than -- than genuinely deadlocked.
JUSTICE ALITO: That isn't what the judge
said just before she got the response. She said: Are
you going to reach a unanimous verdict or not?
MR. McGORMLEY: Right. It's a bifurcated
question.
JUSTICE ALITO: And the foreperson said:
No, judge.
MR. McGORMLEY: It's a bifurcated question,
correct. I mean, the -- the first one was regarding
confirming the nature of their note, and then, even with
the interruption, there are -- twice the court
approaches this inability to reach a unanimous verdict.
So again, here, what is paramount is that
it's the Michigan Supreme Court did not objectively
unreasonably apply this Court's clearly established
precedent. There -- there is no case that flatly
controls this case, other than the Braun-Perez standard.
In fact, the Sixth Circuit here created its own
three-part test, as we've indicated in our brief, when
they said that there are three considerations that
determine.
So when you take that three-part test, which
is not this Court's holdings and test on habeas, as well
as the second-guessing of those predicate factual
determinations being, well, the jury probably didn't
have enough time to even review the witnesses, juries
often report themselves deadlocked, we can't give as
much weight to this foreperson's statement, it's
contrary to these dual layers of deference.
And if there are no further questions, may I
reserve the balance of my time for rebuttal?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. -- Ms. McCowan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARLA R. McCOWAN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. McCOWAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Habeas relief was properly granted. I would
like to first answer Justice Ginsburg's somewhat easy
question for me. Judge Brown was sworn into service on
January 1st of 1991. At the time of this trial she had
been on the bench approximately 6-1/2 years. We are not
disputing her experience as a trial judge.
I do disagree with my friend's contention
that the Sixth Circuit articulated any specific test.
What the Sixth Circuit did was set forth some
considerations or some guidelines, including the first
of which, that the court heard the -- heard the opinions
of the parties. And that does go a long way, Justice
Kennedy, toward the idea that the judge is exercising
sound discretion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- what would
be gained from that? I -- the parties, one says -
let's say one says yes and the other says no. You ought
to grant a mistrial, you shouldn't.
MS. McCOWAN: Well, at the very least, it
evidences that the trial judge at least considered that
there were -- that there competing interests and -- and
debated whether to -- to dismiss the jury, which is an
extraordinarily drastic remedy.
And instead, our position is that there
really is no down side to talking with counsel. You
would be able to have the benefit of the parties'
arguments.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do people usually -
in your experience is there usually a clear breakdown
between prosecution and defense on a question like this?
My perhaps uninformed view is presumably the defense, if
they have got a deadlocked jury, they want that to
continue, because all they need is, you` know, one
holdout.
MS. McCOWAN: My -- my experience -- there
is a range of things that are going on. I'm sorry, I
can't -- I -- I think it just -- it just depends on a
variety of the circumstances. But yes, I think that the
case law generally presumes that the defendant does want
the first jury to deliberate to verdict.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. -- Ms. McCowan, you are
-- you are arguing the case as -- as though the -- the
only question for us is whether it was an abuse of
discretion by the district judge -- by the trial judge
here.
That would certainly be the case if this is
coming up through the Federal system and we had a
Federal trial judge who had made this determination, but
it is not. It -- it is coming up from a State court and
Congress enacted a statute designed specifically to
reduce the interference of Federal courts with -- with
State justice. And that statute says specifically that
where there has been a factual finding by the State
court, it cannot be contradicted by -- by the Federal
courts unless it is refuted by clear and convincing
evidence.
Now, what clear and convincing evidence is
there here that there was not a deadlocked jury?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, first, I am not sure
that I understand -- I -- I disagree with the -- with
the premise that -- that there was a factual finding by
the trial court that the jury was in fact deadlocked.
The judge acquired or extracted the "no" answer and then
immediately declared a mistrial. The ruling that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what was the basis
for that declaration of mistrial?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, presumably on these
facts it would be that -- that -- her estimation that
the jury was deadlocked.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MS. McCOWAN: But there is no actual
specific ruling. And instead, what we are focused here
on is the Michigan Supreme Court's determination that
there was manifest necessity, and in the absence of the
trial judge exercising sound discretion, there is no -
the reason for the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The Michigan Supreme
Court's determination is simply a determination of the
same fact: There was a manifest necessity because the
jury was deadlocked.
MS. McCOWAN: Well, my -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, that factfinding is
implicit not -- not only in what the trial court did,
but also in the Michigan Supreme Court's decision.
MS. McCOWAN: My understanding of manifest
necessity is that that was a legal determination by the
Michigan Supreme Court, that there was -- according to
this Court's precedent, there was manifest necessity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If the jury is
hopelessly deadlocked, is there a situation where that
would not constitute manifest necessity?
MS. McCOWAN: Typically, a genuinely and
hopelessly deadlocked jury does constitute -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it does get back
to the factual determination of deadlock, correct?
MS. McCOWAN: Generally, yes -- yes, I
believe so. But in -
JUSTICE ALITO: The Michigan Supreme Court
cited four factors in support of its decision: the
length of the deliberations in relation to the
complexity of the case, the heated discussions among the
jurors, the fact most importantly that the foreperson
said that the jury would not be able to reach a
unanimous verdict, and the fact that there was no
objection by defense counsel.
Is there any decision in this Court that
says that under -- that in a case in which those four
factors are present, that the trial judge may not grant
a mistrial?
MS. McCOWAN: No, there are no specific
requirements.
JUSTICE ALITO: And is there -- could you
give us a long list of -- of lower court cases holding
that in a case where those four factors are present, a
trial judge may not grant a mistrial?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, no. But the law does
still require that the judge exercise sound discretion
in -- in making a determination that there -
JUSTICE ALITO: The question is when those
four factors are present, why are they not sufficient to
establish that the judge was exercising sound
discretion? Unless there is a decision of this Court or
perhaps a huge body of lower court case law, saying
that, no, even when those four factors are present you
may not grant a mistrial, how do you justify the
conclusion that you are asking us to draw?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, I -- I under -- I think
I understand the question. I do -- I do recognize that
there are no specific requirements, and that in the
absence of that, that there is nothing specific that the
trial judge was required to do beyond the exercise of
sound discretion. And in this case the judge -- the
record does not support that the judge did exercise
sound discretion.
JUSTICE BREYER: So can -- what -- what
is -- looking at -- can you take the converse of the
question I asked your colleague on the other side, if
you can remember it? I'll -- do you see what I'm -- on
the scale. I mean, this is a fairly simple case.
MS. McCOWAN: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is wonderful about
this case is there is no disagreement about the facts.
We could write them in under two pages, just quoting
exactly the notes and exactly what the colloquy was and
note that the lawyer wasn't there. So there we are.
Now, imagine that in front of you. You -
it's easier for you to look up the cases than it is for
him, because you want to find reversals, and all you
have to do is you look and you try to see when the State
courts, Federal courts have said there was not manifest
necessity.
So I have some time. I will read some
cases. Which ones do you want me to read? And I don't
need to read the standard. I have the standard. And I
don't have to worry about -- I agree with the quotation
of the statute; you have the burden. And the question
is we have a record of those two pages, and does it
clearly show that he abused his discretion when he said
there was manifest necessity? Now, I will read -
whatever cases you tell me to read, I will read. But I
want to find facts and I'm not sure you found some,
either.
MS. McCOWAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
I -
JUSTICE BREYER: How could it be that there
are no cases? I mean really, thousands and thousands of
mistrials?
MS. McCOWAN: Indeed, there -
JUSTICE BREYER: How can it be that there
are no cases? Are reversals very, very rare for
manifest necessity?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, I -- I -- I did
undertake tremendous research, as did my staff, and I
did not find -- I mean, a short answer is I did not find
anything that looks even remotely as bad as this.
Now -
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, that's good. Now, tell
me then what did you find? When you say "remotely as
bad," then you perhaps found some where contention was
rejected, or where contention -- what did you find?
What did you find by way of cases where they said on
facts as bad as this, or not quite as bad as this, there
was no manifest necessity?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, I guess the short answer
is that --- that there was nothing exactly on point. I
mean, there were -- there were cases where the judge
acted abruptly and hastily and then there were cases
where the judge did consider the -- the options of the
parties.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the -- so the
proposition that what happened here is an abuse of
discretion cannot be said to be clearly established,
right?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, I don't think that it
has to be established at -- at a granular level. This
Court does require still that the -- that the trial
judge exercise sound discretion in making the
determination that there was manifest necessity. And
the case law -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't have
anything like this case that says this would be an abuse
of discretion?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, I -- I do believe that
this case looks something like -- Jorn, which is a
plurality opinion from this Court, where the trial judge
acted without warning, acted sua sponte, no warnings to
the parties whatsoever, and immediately declared a
mistrial; was acting irrationality, irresponsibly -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the fact that
it's a plurality opinion means that it was not clearly
established by the decisions of this Court.
MS. McCOWAN: But in Arizona v. Washington
this Court quoted Jorn for the proposition that when the
trial judge acts irrationally and irresponsibly and
precipitously, that their action -- that their ruling
will not be upheld; and instead, sound discretion
requires that the trial judge act carefully and
deliberately.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But our -- but our cases
have required much -- much more than that, much more
than referring to a generalized standard that our
opinions have set forth. They have required proving
that the application of that standard in our opinions
comports with the provision of the statute that requires
you to show that the claim resulted in a decision that
was contrary to or involved in unreasonable application
of, clearly established Federal law, as determined by
the Supreme Court of the United States.
Now, our cases don't show that you can
simply come in and say, well, it's an abuse of
discretion standard, that was clearly established by the
Supreme Court of the United States, and therefore all I
have to show is that this is an abuse of discretion. I
don't think so. I think our cases show you have to show
that the standard as applied by our cases does not cover
your situation. And you don't have any cases like that.
MS. McCOWAN: Well, I do understand -- well,
I guess the best answer that I have for that is that,
why there are no cases, is maybe because -- I mean, I
don't know, but what I -- what I came up with or
theorized is that I think that for the most part trial
courts understand that this is a tremendous obligation
that they must exercise sound discretion. And for the
most part for 186 years this has pretty much worked.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That may be. That may well
be -
MS. McCOWAN: And there's nothing -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- which says it's a
terrible statute, but there it is. It says it has to be
contrary to clearly established Federal law as
determined by the Supreme Court of the United States.
And you are saying, no, it's enough if it's established
by an unbroken line of lower court decisions. That's
not what the statute says.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought your -- your
position was that everybody agrees on what the law is:
If there is a deadlock, a new trial is appropriate. So
there is no question about that statement of the law.
It's the fact question, was this a deadlock, and up
until now we have been talking about this, including
Justice Scalia, under the fact problem of AEDPA; that
is, have you shown by clear and convincing evidence.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, is it quite correct
to say the legal issue is whether there's a deadlock?
Isn't the legal issue whether there was a manifest
necessity to take the action? Isn't that the test?
MS. McCOWAN: Precisely, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And the argument is that
there was not a manifest necessity shown, even though
there was disagreement about whether there was a
deadlock, because all deadlocks are not exactly alike.
MS. McCOWAN: Precisely.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Some people think one -
there is one holdout, that means it's a deadlock. Some
people think it -- it might be more. I don't think the
test is deadlock. The test is manifest necessity.
MS. McCOWAN: I agree.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you
answered an earlier question that I asked -- maybe I'm
-- maybe it was something I asked your friend, although
I doubt it, since it would help him -- that the issue
did come down to the factual determination of deadlock,
because if there is deadlock then there is manifest
necessity.
MS. McCOWAN: I'm sorry. I though that,
when I answered that question, that you were asking if
typically, if the jury is genuinely deadlocked, does
that constitute an example of manifest necessity? I'm
sorry for the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. So the case
comes down to whether or not this is a case of genuine
deadlock, right?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, no, I believe that the
case ultimately comes down to -- I am sorry if I
misspoke before. I believe that the case ultimately
comes down to whether the Michigan Supreme Court
unreasonably applied this Court's precedent in finding
that the trial judge exercised -- that there was
manifest necessity in the absence of the trial judge
exercising sound discretion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: With the layers -
with the two layers of deference worked into your
formulation. It's not simply whether the trial court
erred in the determination that there was a deadlock
that constitutes manifest necessity; it's whether or not
there was an abuse of -- of discretion for the trial
judge to so determine that we review under an additional
abuse of discretion standard.
MS. McCOWAN: Well, my understanding of 2254
is that it does take into consideration the contours of
the underlying constitutional violation, and it still is
our position that if the -- if the trial judge was not
exercising sound discretion, that it -- that it can't be
objectively unreasonable for the Michigan Supreme Court
to have found that, that that is necessarily
contemplated by 2254.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Doesn't our law
clearly establish the fact that the prosecution bears
the burden of showing there's manifest necessity, and if
there is an absence of evidence supporting that burden,
hasn't been -- hasn't been -- why isn't that the answer
to the case?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, that certainly sounds
fair. I don't want to quibble, but I think that the -
my understanding of the law is that when -- when there
is an objection by the defense, then the burden is on
the prosecution. In this case, there was no opportunity
to object. So I'm not sure that -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why is that -- why is
that so? If Mr. Gordon thought that this jury was
11-to-1 for acquittal, do you think he would have been
reluctant to ask for a sidebar and object to the
granting of a mistrial?
MS. McCOWAN: I think, yes, practically -
practically speaking, I think he probably would have
been reluctant to jump up and -- I mean, this is a
Friday afternoon and the judge has essentially released
them for the day.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What does he have to lose
at that point? She has made the ruling and that's that
there is going to be a mistrial. The lawyer at that
point can say: Your Honor, I object, and moreover, I
would like you to give the Michigan version of the Allen
charge. Nothing stopped the lawyer from doing that.
MS. McCOWAN: Well, I think just as a
practical matter, having the jury hear that the defense
does not want the jury to leave, the potential for
prejudice would be tremendous. And as a practical
matter, I think that the parties would have been
reluctant to do that. And I think -
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you really saying that?
You're saying that a lawyer in your office defending a
client who thinks that the jury is leaning, is 11-to-1
for acquittal, and the judge says, well, we're going to
have a mistrial and the acquittal is going out the
window, the lawyer is going to be reluctant to say:
Judge, may we have a sidebar, and then go to the sidebar
and object to the granting of a mistrial?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, I -- I'm not sure how we
-- we would know on these facts that the jury was 11-to
1 for acquittal.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I'm not suggesting
that they were or they weren't. I'm just asking about
what defense counsel would do in that situation. Maybe
they are more timid in Michigan than the ones I'm
familiar with. I would think that they would not be
hesitant to raise an objection if they thought it was
going to prejudice the client.
MS. McCOWAN: I certainly would hope so as
well. But here I think that it was all just done just
so fast and without warning and truly without any
opportunity to object. And so for that reason, I -- I
think that the lack of objection really doesn't do
anything to fortify the conclusion that there was
manifest necessity in these facts. Instead -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- what -- I'm
sorry. Please finish your sentence.
MS. McCOWAN: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. What other
explanation is there for a note saying "Are we being too
loud," other than that there was some degree of acrimony
on the jury?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, I don't think that the
Michigan Supreme Court even made a specific finding that
the jury had become -- had completely devolved at that
point and they were no longer -- I think that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, you don't
dispute the fact that a note came out saying, Are we
being too loud?
MS. McCOWAN: Not at all.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what would
that indicate other than that there was some degree of
acrimony?
MS. McCOWAN: I think it just also indicates
they maybe they just don't want anybody to hear them and
they want to make sure that they are not being
overheard, and that, you know, they have some privacy in
their deliberations and freedom to, you know, engage
in a -- in a free debate, as loud as they want to be.
I don't think that there is -- I mean, I
suppose what I'm trying to say, however inartfully, is
that I don't think we can do anything other than just
take that note at face value. They send out a note
saying: We have a concern that our voice levels may be
disturbing the other proceedings. That's it. It did
not -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, maybe that's right
and maybe it's wrong, but the State courts thought that
it was evidence of acrimony, which it could be. And you
say: Well, it also couldn't be. That may well be. But
we are bound to accept the factual determination of the
State court, unless you can show by clear and convincing
evidence that that's wrong.
MS. McCOWAN: I'm not sure -- I mean, maybe
I am just not understanding the Michigan Supreme Court
opinion, but I don't know that they actually made a
finding that that was, in fact, evidence of acrimony.
I thought that the Michigan Supreme Court
said that may indicate that they perhaps had become -
that the deliberations had become acrimonious. And I -
and I think that that's a credible point.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't waste your time. I
will look for it.
MS. McCOWAN: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't waste your argument
time. I will look for it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, there is no
case in our jurisprudence with identical or nearly
identical facts, so this is not under the "contrary to"
prong of 24 -- of 2254(d)(1).
So it has to be under the "unreasonable
application." Particularly for me, what Supreme Court
precedent do you think was unreasonably applied, and
explain how and why?
MS. McCOWAN: I think Arizona v. Washington
clearly establishes the law that the trial judge must
exercise sound discretion in finding a manifest
necessity. And in this case, on these facts, it was
objectively unreasonable for the Michigan Supreme Court
to have found that there was manifest necessity in the
absence of any discretion being exercised whatsoever by
the trial judge.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And in that case, one of
the specific factors was that he consulted with -- the
judge consulted with counsel before making the ruling?
MS. McCOWAN: In this case, that he -- that
the trial judge failed?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In -- in Arizona.
MS. McCOWAN: Oh, right. In -- right,
exactly. In Arizona v. Washington, what this Court had
found is that -- that the judge did exercise discretion;
that was -- that was evidenced by the judge giving the
parties an opportunity to weigh in on it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's a little shaky as
precedent for -- that -- that was a case that said: The
trial judge did right and no double jeopardy for a new
trial. But in passing, to get there, the Court said:
Well, this case didn't involve that. But the Court
isn't passing on anything other than the trial judge in
that case didn't violate defendant's right.
MS. McCOWAN: But I thought that this Court
did say that in any mistrial declaration, the trial
judge is obligated to still exercise sound discretion,
and a review in court must satisfy itself that, in
accordance with Perez, that the judge did in fact
exercise sound discretion in finding that there was
manifest necessity.
And I think that this case looks different
from Washington and may be similar to what was going on
in Jorn, where the judge acted without warning, without
any opportunity for the parties to weigh in on the
matter, and simply declared a mistrial, which this Court
found to be irrational, irresponsible, and precipitous.
And we -
JUSTICE ALITO: So are you suggesting that
whenever the trial judge abuses his or her discretion in
granting a mistrial, there can be relief under AEDPA?
It is clearly established that whenever there is an
abuse of discretion, relief can be granted under AEDPA.
It is an unreasonable application of our precedent?
MS. McCOWAN: I'm sorry. Just to clarify.
You are saying if the trial judge abused -- in fact
abuses his discretion?
JUSTICE ALITO: Right.
MS. McCOWAN: Yes. I think that if the
Michigan -- on these facts, for the Michigan Supreme
Court to have found that there -- that there was
manifest necessity in the absence of the judge
exercising any discretion whatsoever, that that was in
fact, an unreasonable application of this Court's
precedent.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So the standard of review
for setting aside a determination of the State Supreme
Court is exactly the same as the standard of review for
reviewing a Federal district court and a Federal court
of appeals despite AEDPA? We simply look and see
whether there has been an abuse of discretion. If there
has, we set aside the State Supreme Court judgment?
MS. McCOWAN: No, I'm sorry. To clarify, it
still has to be whether -- we are looking at the
Michigan Supreme Court's decision here. We are in -- on
habeas, you are looking at the last reasoned State
court's opinion.
And if the State supreme court -- the last
reasoned court opinion says -- makes an objectively
unreasonable determination, under this Court's clearly
established precedent then relief will be warranted.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it's objectively
unreasonable, you say, whenever there has been an abuse
of discretion by the -- by the trial court, right?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, if the trial judge does
not exercise any discretion whatsoever and acts
irrationally, irresponsibly, and precipitously, I
believe that relief would be warranted, even under
habeas review.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it's not just abuse of
discretion; it's abuse of discretion plus something
else? Plus what?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, it's -- it's whether the
Michigan -- whether the -- the decision under review,
whether it was an objectively unreasonable determination
of this Court's precedent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you -- you do
agree that there could be situations where a Federal
court on direct review would find abuse of discretion,
and yet a court on habeas under AEDPA would say that
that has to stand?
MS. McCOWAN: Yes. And I want to clarify.
I think my understanding is that it's not just whether
this Court disagrees. It does still has to be an
objectively unreasonable determination. So it's not
just simply whether -- whether this Court or any habeas
court reviewing it would come to a different conclusion.
It still has to be objectively unreasonable.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So there are a
category of cases where a Federal court could look at it
and say, that's an abuse of discretion, but that same
court reviewing it under habeas would say you are not
entitled to relief under AEDPA?
MS. McCOWAN: I think that that is right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But "objectively
unreasonable" is already built into the criterion of
abuse of discretion. You don't abuse your discretion if
what you have done is reasonable, you know, within the
ballpark. It seems to me you are doubling up here.
I -- I don't -- I don't understand how it works.
MS. McCOWAN: Well, our argument is that the
trial court was not in the ballpark here. The trial
court in this case did not exercise any discretion
whatsoever, let alone sound discretion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How can you say
that? I mean, you may think the discretion was abused,
but it's not like he just suddenly announced there was
going to be a mistrial. He exercised discretion. He
looked at the note, he asked the question, he's -- are
you hopelessly deadlocked? Are you going to be able to
reach a unanimous verdict?
And he was able to rely on the fact that
they had previously sent out a note saying, are we being
too loud, and the fact he knew, 4-1/2 hours on a case in
which there were 10 hours of testimony.
I mean, I understand your argument that he
abused his discretion, but I don't understand the
argument that he didn't exercise discretion at all.
MS. McCOWAN: Well, my -- my argument is
that the judge was not exercising sound discretion
because she was not responsibly gathering the facts.
She reached the conclusion that the jury was genuinely
deadlocked before she even asked a single question. She
got a -- a note from the jury -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, she asked the
foreperson a question.
MS. McCOWAN: But if I could just back up a
couple lines, she received the note saying: What if we
can't agree. And she said: I have to conclude from
that, that that is your situation at this time.
So she had already reached the conclusion
that they were deadlocked before even asking a single
question. And then from there she -- she misdefines,
for lack of a better description -- she conflated mere
disagreement with deadlock, never corrected that -
that -- that erroneous definition. And she corralled
the -- the foreperson in a matter of seconds -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where did -- where
did -- I'm sorry. Where did she conflate the two things
you said she conflated, deadlocked and the other thing?
What was it, inability to -
MS. McCOWAN: I'm in the petition appendix
at page 94a, where she says -- I'm sorry; at the bottom
of 93a. She said: "I need to ask if the jury is
deadlocked? In other words, is there a disagreement as
to the verdict?"
Disagreement is not -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you got to
read down further. She says: "Are you going to reach a
unanimous verdict or not?" And the foreperson says
"No."
MS. McCOWAN: But in the absence of an
expression of deadlock from the entire jury, on these
facts in this case, it was unreasonable for the Michigan
Supreme Court to find that that satisfied the trial
judge's obligation to exercise sound discretion. At a
minimum, the trial judge is required to responsively
gather the facts.
In this case, she -- she acted hastily and
precipitously and without regard for my client's right
to have this first jury deliberate to a verdict. She
declared a mistrial at the very first sign of
disagreement and did not give anybody an opportunity to
weigh in on that before she declared -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, just -- with
respect, it's not the very first sign of disagreement.
Reasonably interpreting, a note saying "Are we being too
loud" is a sign of disagreement. And there is another
note that comes out: "What happens if we can't agree?"
You are making it sound more precipitous than it was.
MS. McCOWAN: Well -
JUSTICE STEVENS: Also you are ignoring the
fact the first time the question was asked, do you
believe it was hopelessly deadlocked and the foreperson
said the majority of us don't believe that. And then
later -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, no, no. I'm
sorry.
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- and there is a period,
in the opinion of the supreme court after we don't
believe that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There is not a
period on page 7 of the Petitioner's brief. Is that a
mistake? There's a -
MS. McCOWAN: I thought there was a dash.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- dash. And -- and
could the court be concerned that the person was about
to say, and again with deference to the court, "The
majority -- majority of us don't believe that" -- that
the defendant is guilty, that the defendant is innocent.
Wasn't the judge quite correct to stop her right there?
MS. McCOWAN: Well, it may be correct to
stop her right there, but there is other ways to figure
out exactly what the foreperson was trying to explain.
And if she was trying to say, well, the majority of us
think we can keep going, then it was -- it was incumbent
upon the trial judge to -- to do more.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Isn't that exactly
what she did? After that he says don't tell me what you
are going to -- or don't tell me what you are going to
say. I don't want to know what your verdict might be or
how the split is or anything like that, are you going to
reach a unanimous verdict? She did go on after that -
JUSTICE STEVENS: The foreperson did not
immediately answer. She had to ask a second question,
yes or no. And the foreperson answered for herself but
not necessarily for the jury when she said no.
MS. McCOWAN: I think that's right. And I
think -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How -- how do you
know she answered for herself? The judge was talking -
she can't reach a unanimous verdict by herself. She is
answering for the jury.
MS. McCOWAN: I -- I think that really at
best, though -- given the circumstances of this case, at
best that was an expression of the foreperson's opinion,
that the jury would not likely be able -- but that is
not a statement.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you always have to poll
the jury, is that what you are saying is a requirement?
MS. McCOWAN: No, it's not -- it's not -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I am not aware that you
would always have to poll the jury, and I could see some
real disadvantages to it as a matter of fact. It
perhaps puts more pressure on those who are the -- the
holdouts, it identifies, in some cases, whose are the
holdouts. I'm not aware that that's a requirement.
MS. McCOWAN: It's certainly not a
requirement and we were not saying that it is a
requirement. But on these facts when the jury has
simply sent the foreperson out to gather more
information, the trial judge was required to, in some
way, either -- either assure itself that the -- that the
jury as a whole did agree with the foreperson's
expression -
JUSTICE ALITO: You don't think it's a fair
inference from the note that the jury was stuck? Do you
think it's -- it's likely that they were just curious
and they were rolling along just fine, but they were
just curious, well, what if it happens after we
deliberated a little more if we can't reach a -- a
verdict? We just have a curiosity about that? Do you
think that's a fair inference from that note?
MS. McCOWAN: I think all that is fair is
that they were just trying to gather more information.
And that they -- but there is no -
JUSTICE ALITO: You don't think there's
an -- you can draw an inference fairly that they were -
that there was substantial disagreement?
MS. McCOWAN: No, I don't think that that
necessarily means that there is substantial
disagreement. They might have been having trouble.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. McCowan.
Mr. McGormley, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOEL D. McGORMLEY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. McGORMLEY: Thank you. Two brief
points. It is a Petitioner's burden to establish -
clearly establish precedent here that was objectively -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You mean Respondent,
right?
MR. McGORMLEY: I'm sorry?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You are -- you are
the Petitioner.
MR. McGORMLEY: I'm sorry, it -- it -- I'm
sorry, Mr. Lett -- Mr. Lett's burden to demonstrate that
there is clearly established precedent that was
objectively and unreasonably applied.
To Justice Breyer, your question although
not exact fact patterns and that is what I was
struggling with, I would point in our blue brief to
Hernandez-Guardado and Lindsay v. Smith, two cases in
which -- circuit cases, granted, but two cases in which
involved jury deadlocks and counsel was not asked a
question.
JUSTICE BREYER: And those are the ones -
so as I'm seeing this case, it isn't that complicated.
You know, it's pretty clear what the standard is. The
standard is, was the decision of the -- of the State
court reasonable in deciding that there was a sound -
sound -- the words come from nine wheat, that's -
that's, you know, like 100 years ago or something.
MR. McGORMLEY: 186.
JUSTICE BREYER: 186 years ago when it was
something like "sound, careful, exercise patience" -- or
whatever, "the sound, careful exercise of discretion."
They said there was. And the question for us is, was
that reasonable? Okay? I guess if the judge had said,
"Hey, we have only been deliberating half an hour and
the game starts in five minutes, I've got to get
there -- dismissed," that would be unreasonable.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Objectively unreasonable.
So come as close as you can to that, where they held
reasonable, and what case is it?
MR. McGORMLEY: Well -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. McGormley, you have
stressed throughout that it's not -- not the question
that Justice Breyer put, but there are two -- you have
emphasized the two screens. This comes to us after we
have the trial court ruling and the Michigan Supreme
Court ruling. So the case isn't all that easy, without
making the judgment as though it were coming up in the
Federal system.
MR. McGORMLEY: Correct, Justice Ginsburg,
this is not a very easy -
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you, do you
think the most relevant precedent from this Court -
would you agree that the most relevant precedent from
this Court is Arizona v. Washington?
MR. McGORMLEY: I would not. And I -
JUSTICE STEVENS: Why not?
MR. McGORMLEY: The reason why, Justice
Stevens, is because Arizona was not even a deadlocked
jury case. And there is language that helps flesh out
what an abuse of discretion would be.
JUSTICE STEVENS: What do you think the most
relevant precedent from this Court is?
MR. McGORMLEY: Perez.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you have an
answer to Justice Breyer's question? It was sometime
ago, but -
(Laughter. )
MR. McGORMLEY: My best answer, Justice
Breyer, is that the best cases I have are -- are
those -- are those two, because this -- this Court has
never overruled a manifest necessity determination due
to a deadlocked jury.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you suggesting that
you need a precedent overruling a lower court decision
before we could declare that something was
unreasonable -- that our precedent was unreasonably
applied?
MR. McGORMLEY: No, my point is that -- is
in the 186 years since Perez it's never happened. It
does not happen. And that is consistent with the broad
discretion and special respect -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that could also be
consistent with the fact that Perez was clear enough
that judges have to act slowly and --and with thought,
and that lower courts are catching those when they are
not. I mean, I don't know how it cuts, is what I'm
saying.
MR. McGORMLEY: Well, I -- I think it is
indicative of the fact that this has never happened -
this has never happened before.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:05 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
27:7 acting 6:4 34:14 answer 6:18,19 43:6 48:3,18 behalf 1:15,18
48:12,14 action 18:16 14:9,15 15:16 48:20,21 54:9 2:4,7,10 3:8
34:21 36:22 17:16 19:12 arguments 27:8 26:4 54:10
58:5 16:20 17:19 28:19 33:5,15 Arizona 7:22 10:24 13:21,23
38:5 34:20 46:18 57:3 43:16 44:4,6 21:1,13,20
43:22 actual 29:2 answered 37:10 56:14,18 23:8 30:3 34:9
50:4 add 23:14 37:17 52:8,13 articulated 37:24 38:1
9:23 address 12:9 52:15 aside 45:24 46:4 51:16
14:7 admit 13:17 42:1 50:15 14:23 20:20 bench 23:1,3
17:8,13 adopted 19:19 appeals 46:2 31:18 37:10,11 26:11
27:24 AEDPA 3:13,20 appear 5:19 48:11,25 49:2 benefit 27:7
34:7 8:16 15:16,20 APPEARAN... 50:25 55:3 best 17:16 35:19
38:12 20:14 36:17 1:14 asking 9:5,5 52:17,18 57:3
45:10 45:8,10 46:2 appeared 5:24 13:13 19:21 57:4
47:7,20 appellate 12:4 31:7 37:17 better 49:11
afternoon 39:18 17:2 40:19 49:9 beyond 20:19
afterward 11:10 appendix 49:19 asks 18:13 24:12 31:12
45:13 57:1 application Assistant 1:17 24:23 25:2
agree 10:14 11:9 18:24 35:4,7 assume 19:6 big 9:25
50:21 53:11 35:16 38:3 aware 15:25 body 31:4
agrees 36:12 apply 22:15,22 a.m 1:13 3:2 box 22:12
5:25 6:11 10:13 11:16 22:2 36:13 23:20 29:25 15:14 27:10
43:1 24:20,25 30:4 approximately 49:4 Breyer 12:11
20:9 40:7,18 45:6 26:11 33:13 14:13,19 16:3
23:10,18 45:15 53:13,24 area 5:7 balance 25:25 31:16,22 32:21
42:15 Allen 19:15,20 arena 23:7 balancing 21:23 32:25 33:8
19:24 20:9 argue 12:16 ballpark 48:1,4 54:23 55:5,13
56:3 55:6,24 56:6 cited 17:22 30:5 21:22,23 42:10 9:10 38:17
56:19 58:3,4 civil 23:7 concerned 51:14 constitutionally
51:10 15:24 17:5,22 clarify 45:12 conclusion 14:1 consult 12:19
30:19 32:3,9 46:5 47:9 14:3 21:8 31:7 consulted 43:25
57:15 34:25 35:10,15 28:11,13 36:18 conclusions 16:4 38:22
16:1,2 category 47:17 34:16 35:8,12 conferring 16:9 continue 27:14
19:3 caused 7:7 36:6 38:24 confession 12:6 contours 38:16
38:25 certain 10:8 43:17 45:9 confessions 12:2 contradicted
54:12 certainly 10:2 46:12 54:13,21 confirmed 4:4,5 28:10
10:13 21:18 client 40:9,24 confirming 25:4 contrary 17:24
39:4 client's 50:12 conflate 49:16 25:23 35:7
39:25 10:2 Congress 28:6 controls 25:11
8:20 34:6,15 37:9 10:11,23 31:25 consequences 19:10 22:8
11:22 37:21 38:7,23 come 14:1 16:1 4:12 28:11,13 36:18
13:5 41:7,10,18,22 35:11 37:13 consider 33:19 42:18
14:2,6,9 47:4,16 48:7 47:14 55:10,23 consideration corpus 18:24
15:17 49:2,15,25 comes 37:22,25 9:17 22:2 corralled 49:13
50:17 51:4,9 38:2 50:21 38:16 correct 7:9 8:7
51:13,25 52:12 56:4 considerations 8:11 10:17
20:5,5 54:5,14,17 coming 28:3,5 18:6 25:14 11:5 13:12
22:12 56:24 58:2 56:7 26:16 14:18 17:23
25:10,11 circuit 3:19 6:20 comment 8:25 considered 27:1 19:2,8,10,11
28:2 11:23 16:12,13 23:18 considering 6:7 22:11 25:3
25:12 26:14,15 competing 27:2 6:8 30:1 32:19
55:2 completely consistent 16:7 36:19 51:18,19
circumstance 41:16 57:15,18 56:9
21:17 complexity 30:7 constitute 29:22 corrected 49:12
39:3,8 circumstances complicated 29:24 37:19 correctness 19:4
6:8,9 10:8,9 55:6 constitutes counsel 8:23,23
21:14 27:19 comports 35:5 38:11 9:16,20 10:14
48:5,16 52:17 concern 14:22 constitutional 10:21,24 11:7
52:17
47:14,17,19 16:14 17:1 13:2 27:11,12 47:2,12 57:6
26:1 48:4,5 50:7 18:11,12,16 30:11 39:7 determinations
30:11 51:7,14,15 19:7,23 22:5 40:2,20 22:14 25:19
43:8 55:9 56:5,6,12 23:25 24:1,11 deference 3:20 determine 18:14
55:3 58:2 56:14,22 57:5 24:18,19 25:21 5:16,18,22 6:1 25:15 38:13
8:18,18 12:4 29:24 37:18 25:23 38:8 Detroit 1:17
35:23 42:14 49:17,22 51:1 defined 24:10 difference 24:13
22:15 25:9,17 55:3 deliberate 11:20 16:22 44:24
46:7,9,12 47:3 decades 12:21 53:18 11:17,17 13:9
4:2,8,21 cover 35:16 decided 21:24 deliberately 5:8 direct 47:6
6:4 created 25:12 deciding 55:9 6:4 34:24 disadvantages
credence 19:22 decision 21:11 deliberating 53:1
credible 43:2 29:15 30:5,12 55:18 disagree 26:13
9:8,12 criterion 47:23 31:3 35:6 46:7 deliberation 28:16
10:2 11:1 curiosity 53:19 47:1 55:8 57:9 12:15 21:18 disagreement
curious 53:15,17 decisions 34:17 deliberations 24:10 31:23
13:10 custody 18:25 36:9 3:22,23 4:1,22 37:1 49:12,22
16:16,25 cut 21:19 declaration 4:23 5:25 6:12 49:24 50:15,18
cuts 57:21 16:10 28:22 14:18 24:14 50:20 54:1,4
19:1 44:18 30:6 42:4 43:1 disagrees 47:11
20:6,8 D declare 6:14 8:2 demonstrate discharge 15:25
21:21 D 1:15 2:3,9 3:1 8:10,24 9:21 54:20 discharging
3:7 54:9 9:21 11:1,3 Dennis 10:17 3:17
dash 51:12,13 57:10 depends 27:18 disclose 5:2,3
26:6,17 date 8:5 declared 12:24 description discretion 3:17
day 3:23 4:21 16:9 17:6,14 49:11 3:21 6:8 7:18
30:4 39:19 28:20 34:13 deserves 7:15 13:6,14,16,17
31:3 days 12:14 45:3 50:14,16 designed 28:6 13:19 14:7,14
34:2,11 deadlock 3:18 declares 18:2 despite 12:24 17:8,9,13,19
35:9 3:24 4:6 6:13 declaring 5:9 46:2 17:23 20:6
36:7,9 10:11 16:19 defendant 10:18 determination 26:20 27:25
18:20 20:21 10:21 12:10 3:21 7:19 29:6 30:23
42:18,21 21:9 22:20 16:15 21:24 16:25 19:1,6,7 31:3,13,15
43:13,20 24:6,9 30:1 27:20 51:17,17 20:7 22:22 32:14 33:23
36:13,15,20 defendant's 28:4 29:4,9,9 34:3,8,22
45:3,18 37:2,5,7,13,14 10:24 44:16 29:17 30:1,24 35:12,14,24
46:1,1,4 37:23 38:10 Defender 1:17 34:4 37:13 38:6,12,14,19
49:12 50:5 defending 40:8 38:10 42:17 43:18,22 44:7
deadlocked defense 8:5,6 45:24 46:12 44:19,22 45:7
15:6
21:19 23:6 37:19 57:18,24 5:23 6:1,3,3,3
32:18 53:10,10 examples 17:18 factfinding 22:9 28:9,17
47:6,18 emphasized Excuse 4:7,18 29:13 38:3 41:15
48:5 56:4 exercise 30:23 factor 7:11 9:16 42:23 43:18
enacted 28:6 31:12,14 34:3 factors 30:5,14 44:22
50:8 engage 42:4 35:24 43:18 30:20 31:1,5 findings 5:16
56:20 engaged 4:2 44:7,19,22 43:25 fine 53:16
engages 6:16 46:18 48:5,20 facts 5:5,9,19,20 finish 41:8
55:20 erred 38:10 26:19 29:6 40:16 41:6 26:8,16 27:21
error 12:3,6 45:20 48:22 48:23 50:6,10 50:18,25
2:6,9 26:12 27:10,16 5:21,23,25 flesh 56:19
42:11 establish 31:2 23:6,8 22:14 25:18 followed 3:24
44:12 34:1,17 35:8 explanation fair 21:25 22:1 6:22,23 7:3,25
evidence 13:24 14:11 15:10 favor 9:12 25:22 52:18
7:18 57:6 22:4,9 28:12 F 28:3,4,7,10 formula 13:11
39:1 42:15,19 fact 6:20 7:20 46:1,1 47:5,17 38:9
51:21,25 45:13,21 48:14 47:6 50:7 four 30:5,13,20
40:12,24 44:25 helps 56:19 implicit 29:14 interpretation
25:24 51:23 52:2,2,4 55:1 importantly interpreted 6:11
good 8:19,20 9:1 hesitant 40:23 30:8 interpreting
10:6,13 hesitated 6:24 improper 16:20 50:19
granted 26:7 holdout 27:15 incumbent involved 35:7
group 18:15 32:19 36:23 41:23 42:25 irrationally
37:18 35:19 55:17 17:17 18:4 25:13 irresponsible
guidelines 26:16 hope 40:25 indicates 22:20 45:4
11:8 H 24:13,18 29:21 10:10 14:17,20 46:19
21:2 habeas 3:11,19 29:24 48:12 indication 17:25 issue 9:10 10:16
23:4 5:14 18:24 51:1 22:25 19:1 36:20,21
39:20 20:5 22:12 hour 55:18 indicative 18:19 37:12
56:1,9 25:17 26:7 hours 3:25,25 18:20 57:24 issues 12:9
15:14 half 55:18 huge 31:4 inference 53:14 J
25:21 happen 57:15 hung 12:12 53:20,25 January 26:10
39:24 happened 7:24 information jeopardy 10:16
33:22 57:14,24 I 53:9,22 10:19 12:8
happens 4:9 idea 26:19 innocent 51:17 JOEL 1:15 2:3,9
44:8 53:17 identifies 53:3 instituted 18:23 Jorn 34:10,19
40:13 50:11 ignoring 50:24 judge 7:13,25
9:21 6:16 7:14,14 32:25 33:8,21 Lansing 1:15 47:17
12:1 7:20 8:2 11:3 34:6,15,25 Laughter 55:21 looked 12:21
14:21 11:10,20 12:14 36:1,4,11,17 57:2 48:11
18:2 12:17 15:25 36:19,24 37:4 law 27:20 30:22 looking 10:9
21:3 16:14,19 17:2 37:9,21 38:7 31:4 34:5 35:8 14:2,4 22:21
23:6 17:24,25 18:11 38:23 39:10,20 36:6,12,14 31:17 46:6,8
25:1 18:14 19:7,23 40:7,18 41:7 38:23 39:6 looks 33:6 34:10
22:4 23:25,25 41:10,18,22 43:17 44:24
24:4,17 25:19 42:13 43:3,6,8 laws 22:1 lose 39:20
29:6 27:3,13,21 43:24 44:4,10 lawyer 12:19 loud 41:12,20
28:14,18,25 45:6,15,23 15:9 32:1 42:5 48:16
29:11,20,24 46:14,22 47:4 39:22,25 40:8 50:20
34:3 30:9 37:18 47:16,22 48:7 40:12 lower 5:5 30:19
39:11 40:2,3,9 49:2,15,25 layer 23:23 31:4 36:9 57:9
40:16 41:13,16 50:17,24 51:4 layers 25:23 57:20
40:10,13 48:24 49:1,21 51:6,9,13,25 38:7,8 lunch 15:3
44:1 50:5,13 52:9 52:6,12,21,24 leaning 40:9
52:15,19,22,25 53:13,24 54:5 leave 8:8 40:3 M
45:1 53:7,11,14 54:14,17,23 left 8:9 mainstream
55:3 56:19 55:5,13,22 legal 24:6 29:17 15:17,19
48:22 57:7 56:1,3,9,11,16 36:20,21 majority 15:6
51:18,24 justice 3:3,9 4:7 56:17,21,24,25 Leis 16:12 20:11 51:2,16
53:9 4:14,18,25 5:4 57:3,8,17 58:2 length 30:6 51:16,22
5:12,13,17 6:2 justify 31:6 Lett 1:6 3:5 majority's 19:22
7:17,23 8:8,14 K Lett's 3:16 30:24 34:3
50:8 10:4,13,20,25 Kennedy 8:14 let's 26:23 56:7
18:25 14:5,13,19 26:19 43:24 42:10 29:16,19,22
56:7 15:15,22 16:3 44:4 lifted 16:15 32:6,15 33:2
17:3 18:10,21 knew 48:16 Lindsay 55:1 36:21,25 37:7
21:4,8,16 22:3 10:23 13:23 list 30:19 43:18,21 44:23
23:10,17 24:3 35:21 40:16 44:10 53:18 March 1:9
26:1,5,8,18,21 47:25 52:3,13 23:2 26:18 2:6 26:3
21:10 29:13,20,25 look 6:9 14:5
30:8 30:4,18,25 lack 41:4 49:11 22:16 32:3,5 49:14 53:1
McCOWAN
2:6 26:2,3 57:3,13,23 misspoke 38:1 44:12 ones 32:9 40:21
27:16 mean 7:7 17:4 mistake 12:1 nine 55:10 55:5
28:15,23 20:8 23:11 51:11 norm 13:8 operating 18:22
25:3 29:13 mistrial 5:9 6:15 note 3:22,24 4:5 opinion 6:7
31:20 32:22 8:2,10,24 9:21 4:8,15,15,16 12:10 19:22
32:19 33:5,17 35:20 9:22 10:15 4:19,24 6:11 20:12 34:11,16
33:3,15 39:17 42:6,20 11:1,4,19 6:12 10:10,10 42:22 46:9,11
34:9,18 48:8,18 54:14 12:24 15:1 14:17,19 17:14 51:7 52:18
36:3,23 57:21 16:9,18 17:14 18:18,20 25:4 opinions 26:17
meaning 18:11 18:3 24:6 32:1 41:11,19 35:3,4
39:4,15 means 17:9 26:24 28:20,22 42:9,9 48:11 opportunity
22:17 34:16 30:15,21 31:6 48:15 49:1,5 22:1 39:8 41:3
37:5 54:3 34:14 39:14,22 50:19,21 53:14 44:9 45:2
43:5,16 measure 7:15 40:11,14 44:18 53:20 50:15
mechanical 45:3,8 48:10 notes 14:20 20:7 opposed 24:15
46:5 13:11 50:14 21:14 22:16,19 options 33:19
47:9 members 12:23 mistrials 12:12 31:25 oral 1:11 2:2,5
48:3,21 mentioned 17:6 32:23 3:7 26:3
50:4 17:18 18:18 Monday 1:9 O ought 26:23
51:12,19 mere 49:11 morning 3:4 O 2:1 3:1 overheard 42:3
merely 24:10 14:21 object 11:13 overruled 57:6
54:2,6 merits 12:7,8,10 murder 3:12 39:9,13,23 overruling 57:9
2:3,9 3:6 1:18 3:12,15 objected 10:24 P
4:14,20 4:20 5:15,24 N objection 10:20 P 3:1
12:2,6 19:15 N 2:1,1 3:1 11:2,11 30:11 page 2:2 49:20
7:4,9,16 19:15,18,19,23 nature 25:4 39:7 40:23 51:10
9:2,7,15 20:14,18 22:13 nearly 43:9 41:4 pages 31:24
10:1,7,17 22:20 25:8 necessarily 7:4 objectively 3:15 32:13
11:5,12 29:4,8,15,18 38:21 52:9 22:15 25:8 paramount 25:7
12:2 30:4 38:2,20 54:3 38:20 43:20 part 13:9 35:22
14:3 39:24 40:21 necessity 10:15 46:11,14 47:2 35:25
15:12 41:15 42:21,24 16:25 29:5,10 47:12,15,22 Particularly
16:6 43:20 45:17,17 29:17,19,22 54:13,22 55:22 43:13
46:7 47:1 50:6 32:7,15 33:2 obligated 44:19 parties 26:18,22
18:17 56:5 33:14 34:4 obligation 10:3 27:7 33:20
millions 13:1,1 36:22,25 37:7 10:5 35:23 34:13 40:5
21:1,3 minimum 50:9 37:15,19 38:5 50:8 44:9 45:2
minority 19:21 38:11,25 41:6 obtained 3:12 passing 44:13,15
20:10 43:19,21 44:23 obviously 24:8 patience 55:14
minute 8:12 45:19 57:6 occurred 5:20 patterns 54:24
minutes 4:23 need 27:14 office 40:8 PAUL 1:3
54:7,9,11 18:2 54:7 32:10 49:21 oh 21:20 33:8 pause 7:7 11:9
55:12 55:19 57:9 44:5 51:4 people 27:9 37:4
56:1,9 misdefines never 9:18 49:12 okay 13:15 37:6
49:10 57:6,14,24,25 15:10 17:7 Perez 5:7 6:7
20:23 precipitous properly 26:7 quoted 34:19 rebutting 19:3
51:14 50:22 33:22 34:19 49:5
3:8 46:19 50:12 39:8 26:3 31:9
Precisely 36:23 prosecutor raise 40:23 recognized 7:21
51:10 predicate 25:18 prove 13:7 22:8 21:17 record 5:2 11:14
prejudice 40:4 proving 35:3 range 27:17 21:10 31:14
premise 28:17 put 56:3 18:12 24:4,14 reduce 28:7
present 8:9 11:3 30:9 48:13 reference 15:12
11:7,13,15 pressure 53:2 12:5 reached 24:5 refers 4:21
33:16 presumably quarrelling 48:24 49:8 refuted 28:11
41:17 22:7 27:12 23:13 reaching 4:12 regard 50:12
54:25 28:23 query 4:8,9 read 13:4 16:17 regarding 4:15
presumed 19:2 question 3:13 24:9 32:8,9,10 25:3
36:12 pretextual 17:21 21:5,9,15 53:1 10:8
pretty 13:16 24:12,24 25:2 really 12:15 rejected 33:11
prevail 22:18,23 30:25 31:9,18 32:22 40:7 relation 30:6
previously 48:15 37:10,17 48:11 reason 20:24,25 10:23
probably 12:21 54:23 55:4,16 reasonable 56:12,13,22
10:6 39:16 questioning 20:13 22:14,18 45:10 46:13,20
20:18 problem 36:17 8:15 22:21 47:25 47:20
25:10 proceeding 19:13 24:9 reasonably 6:11 39:13,17 40:6
38:3 18:23 25:24 6:12 50:19 40:12
44:11 proceedings quibble 39:5 reasoned 46:8 rely 48:14
46:13 4:16 11:25 quite 13:19 46:11 remaining 54:8
54:13,21 42:11 24:16 33:13 reasons 17:1,21 remedy 27:4
51:18 rebuttal 2:8
12:20 15:5 40:10 46:11 13:18 15:17,18 17:3 18:10
31:21 33:24 scale 13:16 14:2 35:15 42:18 sound 6:7 26:20
20:23 44:5,5,12,16 Scalia 7:6,10 shown 36:18,25 31:2,13,15
35:1,3 45:15 46:16 9:19,25 10:20 side 12:25 13:17 34:3,22 35:24
53:9 47:21 50:12 15:15,22 18:21 13:18 15:18 38:6,19 43:18
52:22 54:15 27:22 28:21 31:18 48:22 50:8,22
risk 7:21 29:1,8,13 sidebar 11:18 55:9,10,14,15
31:10 26:1,21 27:9 36:17 42:13 sign 50:14,18,20 speaking 39:16
34:6,15 37:9 46:14,22 47:22 similar 44:25 57:16
50:18 51:13,25 52:12 6:12 7:2 18:20 single 21:24 28:8
54:5,14,17 23:22 52:7 48:25 49:9 spectrum 17:1
rolling 53:16 second-guessed 35:17 40:20 sponte 18:8
2:7 26:4 28:20 29:3 25:18 Sixth 3:19 6:20 staff 33:4
34:21 39:21 see 13:4 14:23 16:12 25:12 stand 47:8
24:21 32:5 46:2 slowly 57:19 24:19 25:11
48:23 S 2:1 3:1 seeing 55:6 sneezing 7:7 35:4,12,16
satisfy 44:20 send 42:9 society 21:25 55:7,8
45:13 48:15 serving 23:2 45:12 46:5 18:25 19:1
38:13 52:22 53:6 35:3 46:4 54:16,19,20 28:5,8,9 32:5
45:23,25 57:22 setting 45:24 sort 16:14 42:14,18 45:24
55:8 supports 6:3 54:11 58:1,2 totality 6:9 10:9 typically 29:23
36:14 20:25 42:7 thing 19:16,17 traditional
supreme 1:1,12 49:17 19:20,24 U
35:9,13 12:6 20:14 think 5:18 11:14 travel 18:5 unanimous 6:19
22:13,21 25:8 11:19,19 12:16 tremendous 6:25 8:1 24:5
32:12 36:7 38:2,20 27:18,19 31:8 trial 3:16,21,25 50:2 52:5,14
36:5,10 41:15 42:21,24 33:25 35:15,15 4:2 5:5 6:10,14 unbroken 36:9
21:4 45:24 46:4,7 39:5,12,15,16 7:18,19 8:5 38:17
36:19 46:10 50:7 40:1,5,6,22 10:2 11:22 understand 8:15
37:4 51:7 56:5 41:1,4,14,17 16:16,20 17:20 8:16 9:11,11
51:6 sure 6:2 28:15 41:25 42:6,8 18:9 19:17 28:16 31:9
56:11,16 32:17 39:9 43:2,14,16 20:5,8,15,18 35:18,23 48:2
40:15 42:2,20 44:24 45:16 21:3 22:25 48:18,19
taken 19:15 37:9 39:11 44:12,13,15,18 27:12
talked 12:22 44:17 51:12 46:17 48:4,4 14:10 35:9,13
talking 27:6 thousands 12:11 53:9 56:5 unreasonable
tell 5:4 8:14,17 13:1 32:22,22 trouble 54:4 43:12,20 45:11
40:18 terms 23:2 time 4:2 7:20 twice 14:8 25:5 unreasonably
57:8 terrible 36:5 15:2 24:4 two 21:14 31:24 3:15 22:15
31:14 25:16,17 26:14 32:8 43:3,7 49:16 54:11 43:14 54:22
21:11 testimony 3:25 timid 40:21 57:5 unusual 12:13
12:13 48:17 total 12:14 two-part 4:3 upheld 16:10
34:18 56:14
44:6 Y 6
56:14 14:14 19:25 year 12:12 6-1/2 26:11
55:11,13 7
8:1 15:14 26:18 33:12 0 9:30 14:21
24:5,5 53:10
1:4 3:4 93a 49:21
ways 12:16
49:20
27:21 51:20 1
48:13 Webb 11:22 1 6:1 40:17
50:2,13 18:8 1st 26:10
weigh 44:9 45:2 10 3:25 12:14
50:16 48:17
21:4 went 23:6 11-to 40:16
27:12 weren't 40:19 11-to-1 39:12
wheat 55:10 1991 26:10
wins 22:17 2
14:5,7 words 12:25 24 43:11
32:4 49:22 55:10 26 2:7
39:5 worked 7:14 29 1:9
42:1,2,5 35:25 38:8
52:3 works 8:18 9:13 3
45:1 worry 32:11
