IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
BRIAN RUSSELL DOLAN, :
Petitioner, : No. 09-367
v. :
UNITED STATES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 20, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:11 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAMELA S. KARLAN, ESQ., Stanford, California; on behalf
of the Petitioner.
TOBY J. HEYTENS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PAMELA S. KARLAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
TOBY J. HEYTENS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PAMELA S. KARLAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:11 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 09-367, Dolan v.
United States.
Ms. Karlan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAMELA S. KARLAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. KARLAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The Mandatory Victim Restitution Act makes
restitution a mandatory part of a defendant's sentence
for certain crimes, and it sets out two paths by which a
district court can meet its responsibilities.
First, section 3663A(a)(1) authorizes
district courts to impose restitution when sentencing a
defendant; that is, at the same time that they impose
terms of imprisonment, fines, probation, or the like.
Second, section 3664(d)(5) of the Act allows final
determination of the amount of restitution to occur
during a period not to exceed 90 days.
Once those periods and the general deadlines
for correcting or appealing a sentence have passed, a
court's judgment is final, even if it fails to order
restitution. In this, the Mandatory Victim Restitution
Act is like all other mandatory sentencing provisions,
and as this Court confirmed 2 years ago in Greenlaw v.
United States, when a court fails to impose a mandatory
sentence, that error can be corrected only by following
what this Court called the dispositive direction
regarding sentencing errors.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. Is your
argument that if the district court -- for whatever
reason, unlikely as it may be -- starts a hearing the
day after the rest of the sentence was imposed and has
to continue that hearing for 91 days before it can
render a judgment --
MS. KARLAN: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that it's now barred
from entering that judgment?
MS. KARLAN: No. If I understand your
question correctly, the district court has imposed
sentence on day one announcing imprisonment. Any time
during the next 90 days, it has a power to set a date
and make final determination of the restitution amount.
Once that 90-day period has run -- in this case, on
October 28th, because the sentencing occurred on
July 30th -- the district court loses the authority to
impose restitution.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the sentence is not
final until then?
MS. KARLAN: That's our position.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and what if -- what
if the court does set a date for additional sentencing?
Then it's not final until then, right?
MS. KARLAN: No, Justice Scalia. It would
be that once a court has started the sentencing process,
it has 90 days within which to complete that process, if
it announces at the initial sentencing that it intends
to hold open the sentence for final determination of
restitution.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I'm not sure I
understood your response to my question. It must impose
that restitution order, complete all its proceedings
within the 90-day period?
MS. KARLAN: Yes, that's correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So it can't hold a
hearing over from the 90th day to the 91st day?
MS. KARLAN: No, it cannot do that. And if
it were to do that in a case where restitution were
mandatory, the sentence would become final, the
government would file an appeal, and that appeal would
certainly succeed, because it's plain error not to have
to imposed the restitution.
JUSTICE ALITO: Your position is that if the
court puts off the order of restitution for 90 days,
during that period, the defendant cannot take an appeal?
MS. KARLAN: If the court has announced at
the initial sentencing that it intends to do so, no, then
it cannot.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that dramatically
contrary to the way criminal appeals have been handled
for a long time? There's a very short period of time
for a defendant to file a notice of appeal in a criminal
case, and you're saying that that is dramatically
extended by the possibility of -- of restitution later
on or by the fact that the restitution order will be
entered later?
MS. KARLAN: No, Justice Alito. What I'm
saying is that a defendant can only appeal from a final
sentence, and until the restitutionary term is imposed
within the time period allowed by the MVRA, there is not
a final sentence. Then he has from the time that
restitution is --
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, I understand that. But
you're saying the defendant is -- the defendant is
incarcerated, let's say; is convicted, is sentenced to
prison. The defendant wants to take a quick appeal.
The defendant thinks he's going to win on appeal. And
you're saying, well, no, you have to wait 90 days
before you can file your notice of appeal?
MS. KARLAN: I believe that's correct,
because he has to have a final judgment before he can
appeal.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what -- what do you
do about the further provision that at any time later,
if the government -- or the victim finds additional
basis for restitution, so long as after discovering it,
within 60 days after that, the victim can come to the
court and ask for restitution? What does that do?
Does that --
MS. KARLAN: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, doesn't that
necessarily mean that there are indeed two final
judgments? That -- that one has to be -- has to go up
on its own, doesn't it?
MS. KARLAN: That's correct, but section
3664(o) of the statute says that the initial restitution
amount constitutes a final judgment, even though there
can be amendment after it's been entered.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is that?
MS. KARLAN: In our brief, it's on page --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh. Oh -- "a sentence that
imposes an order" --
MS. KARLAN: It's on page --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- "is a final judgment,
notwithstanding the fact that" --
MS. KARLAN: Yes, petition appendix 60a.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Got you.
MS. KARLAN: So that's why that has to be in
there, because otherwise the defendant really would be
in the position that Justice Alito --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there any circuit
court who has addressed this issue of when an appeal is
timely, in a situation in which a restitution order has
not been entered at the initial sentencing?
MS. KARLAN: Not in precisely that way.
There are a couple of cases that are -- that kind of
circle around that.
So for example, Kapelushnik, which we cite
in our petition for certiorari and in our brief as the
wisest way of thinking about this, held that once the
90 days has lapsed, the judgment is final by operation
of law.
There's an opinion by Judge Posner in the
Seventh Circuit that's not on restitution but on a
related issue, which says that if you have several
components to the sentence, until that last component is
entered, the time for filing an appeal under F.R.A.P. 4
does not begin to run. And that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In this -- when the
judge did not enter a date for restitution, did you
object to that?
MS. KARLAN: We were not required to do so,
so we did not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why not? It
seems that that's when the violation occurred. The
statute said the court shall set a date if they're not
ready to calculate the restitution, and he didn't do
that.
MS. KARLAN: Well, that's correct,
Mr. Chief Justice, but the statute doesn't say when he
has to set the date. The statute simply says the date
has to be set so that final restitution will occur
during the period -- and here I quote again from the
statute -- "not to exceed 90 days." So he can set that
date once he gets the information from --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought it
says -- maybe I am misreading it. It says the court --
this is at sentencing. When sentencing -- you look at
the previous provision -- what is it? 3663A(a)(1) --
MS. KARLAN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- talks about what
you do when sentencing it.
MS. KARLAN: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the statute
says, "the court shall set a date for the final
determination" ... "not to exceed 90 days." And he didn't.
MS. KARLAN: That's correct, he did not set
it. But the statute -- I'm now looking at petition
appendix 55a, which is where section 3664(d)(5) of the
Act is set out. It says, "The court shall set a date
for the final determination of the victim's losses, not
to exceed 90 days after sentencing."
The 90 days modifies the final
determination. It doesn't modify the setting of the
date. So within that 90-day period, I think
that what was --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I think that's
right. I -- I agree with you that.
MS. KARLAN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In other words, the
final determination -- the date for the -- the final
determination can't exceed 90 days --
MS. KARLAN: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- but that doesn't
mean that the provision saying the court shall set a date
can wait -- that he can wait 89 days to do that.
MS. KARLAN: No, I think it would be very
unwise for a district court to do that, but the court
can't really set the date until it receives the
information that it hopes to receive from the probation
office or from the victim. So that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, no --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It can say 90 days. It
can say 90 days.
MS. KARLAN: It -- it could, yes. Or it
could say, as the district court did here, I'm going to
hold open the date. But it can only hold open that date
until the point at which it actually imposes the
restitution, within the 90 days.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is a -- this is, in
one respect, Ms. Karlan, a technical argument, is it
not? Because it's true that this defendant, from the
probation officer's report, knew within the 90 days what
restitution was going to be recommended.
MS. KARLAN: Yes. He knew within the
90 days what the government's claim was going to be, but
the court did not hold the hearing and did not impose
the judgment. And so the August 8th judgment became
final by operation of law on October 28th, because that
was 90 days after the July 30th sentencing.
At that point, the government could have
filed an appeal in this case, and, quite frankly, they
would have won. As it was --
JUSTICE ALITO: How is your position -- how
is your position consistent with the thrust of the
victims' rights legislation that Congress has enacted in
recent years, including the statute that's before us
here?
Now, in this case, the victim -- the
victim's medical bills were paid by the United States.
But that isn't always going to be the case, and
sometimes victims are going to have a lot of lost
income. So you have the victim, like the victim here,
who is beaten to a pulp by a defendant and loses a
substantial amount of future income as a result, and you
say that if the judge makes a mistake, it's just too bad
for the victim. The victim gets nothing because the
judge waited too long.
MS. KARLAN: No, I don't --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that's what
Congress had in mind?
MS. KARLAN: I don't say that, and I don't
think that's what Congress had in mind. First, what
Congress had in mind was to strike the balance it struck
in this statute, which was to give victims the right to
receive restitution as part of a criminal sentence, as
long as it was done within 90 days of sentencing.
Second, the government can appeal if a court
doesn't follow the rules.
Third --
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, but wasn't -- wasn't
the whole thrust of the victims' rights legislation that
up to that point, Congress thought prosecutors were not
sufficiently attending to the rights and the interests
of victims? They were doing their own prosecutorial
thing, but they weren't involving victims, making sure
they knew about court proceedings, and so forth.
And you're saying, well, if the court makes
a mistake and the prosecution falls down in its
responsibility, the person who suffers is the victim who
gets victimized again.
MS. KARLAN: No, that's not what I'm saying.
What I'm saying is Congress struck a balance. They
wanted to give restitution to victims. They also wanted
final sentencing for defendants. Congress struck that
balance by giving a 90-day extension. It didn't provide --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you're not
really -- you're not really answering Justice Alito's
question. He says he understands that, as I understand
the question. We understand that argument.
But it doesn't address the fact that the net
result of your argument is (a) unfair to the victim and
(b) inconsistent with the whole design and thrust of the
Victims Act.
MS. KARLAN: It's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you, it seems to me,
have to say: So be it; the technical rule prevails.
That's too bad.
I mean, that's your argument, it seems
to me.
MS. KARLAN: No, my argument is Congress
struck that balance, and in some cases, yes, too bad --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, the same thing
would happen if the trial judge makes a mistake of law
which causes the -- the defendant to be acquitted, so
that he not only escapes the liability to the victim, he
escapes any -- any criminal punishment. It happens all
the time. The judge makes a mistake; society pays for
it.
MS. KARLAN: That's correct, and Congress
here has said 90 days. And they meant it. If they had
meant to say, at any time, a victim can receive
restitution, they would have said that.
JUSTICE BREYER: But Congress says -- to
paraphrase and not get it accurate -- that the
Department of Transportation shall enact a rule
governing tire safety within 9 months from the
effective date of this legislation. And the Department
of Transportation fails to do that. It doesn't
promulgate its law for 18 months. Is that law invalid?
The rule?
MS. KARLAN: No, generally, under this --
JUSTICE BREYER: Of course, it isn't.
MS. KARLAN: Because that's --
JUSTICE BREYER: So how is this different?
MS. KARLAN: Well, this is a criminal
sentencing statute which is different than a civil
agency action.
JUSTICE BREYER: I understand that point.
I'm just asking what's a relevant difference?
MS. KARLAN: That is the incredibly relevant
difference, for the following reason --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because?
MS. KARLAN: -- that finality in sentencing
is important, because otherwise a defendant cannot even
appeal his conviction.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why couldn't he?
MS. KARLAN: Because he --
JUSTICE BREYER: You just read us the
provision.
MS. KARLAN: It's not a final --
JUSTICE BREYER: The judge enters a -- an
order, a final order. And that final judgment, as was
true here, says: I haven't decided restitution yet. He
can appeal. Then what it says is when you get around to
the restitution, then enter another judgment, and you'll
appeal that, as happens precisely in the case of
the 60 days -- you know, that extra stuff that Justice
Scalia was referring to. That's a possible
interpretation of the Federal Rules of Appellate
Procedure. I don't see, you know, the appeals thing. I
don't see anything -- I don't have in front of me the
language on filing an appeal, but I can't think of
anything that's contrary.
MS. KARLAN: What's contrary to that is
that the Federal courts of appeals only have
jurisdiction to decide cases that come up, in criminal
cases, on final judgment or under the collateral order.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's right.
MS. KARLAN: This is not --
JUSTICE BREYER: It's a final judgment, and
because there is another provision that says an order of
restitution is itself a final judgment.
MS. KARLAN: No. With all respect,
Justice Breyer, there is no provision that says an order
of restitution --
JUSTICE BREYER: You read it to us. I mean
the one you read to us.
MS. KARLAN: No. That says --
JUSTICE BREYER: What?
MS. KARLAN: -- that a sentence that
includes a term of restitution can be a final judgment,
even though that 60-day provision to which
Justice Scalia pointed is on the books.
But you can't have a final judgment in a
criminal case that involves several different components
of a sentence until those aspects of the sentence have
actually been imposed.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why isn't the --
MS. KARLAN: Justice Scalia, I believe, was
referring to the 60-day provision.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, the same problem.
MS. KARLAN: The 60-day provision is
specifically immunized from the final judgment rule by
section 3664(o) of the statute. The 90-day provision is
not. So until a defendant -- perhaps I could -- perhaps
I could use a slightly different example, which is:
Suppose a defendant is supposed to be a sentenced to a
fine, a mandatory fine --
JUTICE BREYER: I see.
MS. KARLAN: -- and a mandatory prison sentence.
If you sentence him to the mandatory prison sentence and
say I still need to calculate the fine -- there is no
final judgment. He cannot appeal that sentence.
JUSTICE ALITO: But isn't there a difference
between those two situations? A fine is a criminal
penalty. It goes -- it -- the prosecution is brought in
the same of the sovereign. The fine goes to the
sovereign. It's a traditional criminal penalty.
Restitution is not a traditional criminal
penalty. It's much like, arguably, attorneys' fees in a
civil case. It is -- it is like -- it is really a -- a
benefit for the victim. It is not something that inures
to the benefit of the sovereign.
And so why doesn't it make sense to view
that judgment of restitution as a separate judgment,
just as the award of an attorney's fees is a separate
final appealable order in a civil case?
MS. KARLAN: Well, because this judgment of
restitution is not a civil judgment. It is part of the
defendant's criminal punishment, and, therefore, it is
not like attorneys' fees, something that's separate.
As we point out in our reply brief, in order
to calculate the amount of imprisonment, in order to
calculate the fine, the Federal criminal sentencing
provisions -- and I should note that section 3664(a)
appears in Title 18 in the section under miscellaneous
sentencing provisions, not civil provisions. All of
those things interact. And so you can't calculate one
of those without knowing all of them.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But, functionally, isn't
it a substitute for the remedy that the victim of a
crime might have? Wasn't what Congress was trying to do
was to spare the victim the necessity of suing the
defendant and having his kind of civil restitution
tacked onto the criminal proceeding?
MS. KARLAN: That's certainly Congress's
purpose, but they did it within the context of
sentencing. So, for example, Justice Ginsburg, if this
really were a civil penalty, defendants would not be
entitled to the assistance of counsel in challenging the
amount of restitution, because the Sixth Amendment would
not apply. The dates for filing an appeal would be
different. There would be a jurisdictional bar that
doesn't exist in criminal cases.
This Court said several times that
restitution under these kinds of circumstances -- in
Hughey, under the predecessor to this Act, and in Kelly
v. Robinson -- is a penal statute. Justice Sotomayor in
her opinion for the Second Circuit in Varrone said this
is a penal statute.
So there is no question here that this is a
substitute for a civil remedy or a supplement for a
civil remedy, but it is a criminal punishment. And
Congress has said that you have to order it at
sentencing or within 90 days, or else it is error that
can be corrected through Rule 35 or by appeal, but not
otherwise.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, what -- what can the
defendant do within that 90 days? He has to wait
90 days before he appeals the sentence that he has been
given; is that right?
MS. KARLAN: That's correct. There is not a
final judgment in his case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's 3 months that --
that he has to sit on his hands.
MS. KARLAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Where does it say that?
MS. KARLAN: Well, the final judgment rule
says that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, this is a court-made
rule of what counts as a final judgment.
MS. KARLAN: Right. And -- and --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Is there
anything in the decisions of this Court interpreting
that rule? I mean, you could have collateral orders. You
could have all kinds of things. And doesn't it boil down
to the same question?
I mean, I agree with you that if Congress
wanted to make a 90-day deadline, you really have to do
it, and you can't restitute thereafter. All right.
That's one thing. But if they didn't, why didn't they
equally intend the judgment without the restitution
order to be a final judgment?
MS. KARLAN: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: And then later on, just as
in (o), if the judge does impose an order of restitution,
then of course, that's appealable, and that's a different
judgment. Is there -- what in the law prevents the --
that interpretation?
MS. KARLAN: I think two things prevent that
interpretation.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MS. KARLAN: One is this Court's precedent,
and let me talk about that. And two is a proper reading
of section 3664(o). So I'll turn first to the
precedent and then to 3664(o).
JUSTICE BREYER: So you have precedent.
MS. KARLAN: So the precedent is, for
example, this Court said in Parr v. United States, which
is cited on page 12 of the reply brief, among other
places, that "a judgment or decision is final for purpose
of appeal only when it terminates the litigation between the
parties on the merits of the case, and leaves nothing to
be done but to enforce by execution what has been determined."
Until restitution has been determined, a
case does not fit within Parr. Parr is, I believe, an
interpretation of 1291, 28 U.S.C. 1291, which is the
provision that gives the courts of appeals jurisdiction.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you can -- under
your view, you can change the amount of jail time up to
the point at which you have to set the restitution. The
judge says: I'm going to sentence you to 3 years, and
I'm going to figure out the restitution.
He looks, and the restitution turns out to
be a lot more than he thought. So he says: Well, I'm
only going to give you 2 years. Or it's less, and he
says: I'm going to give you 4 years.
Because the judgment is still open, he can
do that?
MS. KARLAN: I believe, Your Honor, that he
can. And the reason for that is the sentencing statute
itself -- 18 U.S.C. section 3553, I believe it is --
talks about how a court, in sentencing a defendant, is
supposed to be considering all of these penalties and
how they interact with one another.
So if a defendant can make restitution to a
victim by, for example, being put on community release
or probation rather than serving time in prison, a court
can take that into account in setting the sentence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Must take it into account --
MS. KARLAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- if you read 3553 the way
it's written.
MS. KARLAN: Yes, I think they must take it
into account. Now, whether -- how they'll actually
strike that balance is --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there no -- is there
no possibility that a judge could say: I want to make
this analogous to 54(b) under the civil rules; that is,
I don't want to delay the time that the defendant can
appeal from the -- from the -- from the sentence. So
this order is final, and 3 months later, I'll take up
the question of restitution when all the information is
in. The court is prevented from doing that?
MS. KARLAN: I'm unaware of any criminal
rules analogue to Rule 54(b) in the civil context, because
in general, as I understand the way this Court's
precedents have worked, there have been what might look
like interlocutory appeals in criminal cases, but they've
always involved collateral issues.
And the problem here, for the reason that
Justice Scalia just pointed to, is restitution and the
amount of imprisonment are not collateral to one
another; that is, they may interact. And a fine
certainly isn't, because the statute itself says you
can't impose a fine to the extent that it will impair
restitution. So if --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So the judge -- but the
judge could say -- once she thinks she needs -- that
they need time for more information: I'm going to
defer the whole sentencing. So, Defendant, you'll have to
wait 3 months to find out how much time you're going to
serve. That would be all right. You could use the
90-day period to extend the time for imposing the
sentence.
Well, in effect, you're saying the sentence
isn't final, so she could change it any time within the
90 days?
MS. KARLAN: There's a slight complication
there, but I think the answer to your question is yes;
that is, the judge could delay the entire sentencing
under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 32.
Look, we're not saying that you couldn't
get restitution in a case like this. We're simply
saying that you have to follow the rules.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, what about
that as a possible answer? If we accept -- the -- the judge,
of course, could say to the defendant: I'm not going to
sentence you; I'm not going to put that sentence -- I'm
not going to sentence you at all --
MS. KARLAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- for 100 days.
MS. KARLAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: And your remedy, then,
might be to ask for mandamus, if that was too long a
period?
MS. KARLAN: It -- it might be. I --
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and -- so why
wouldn't that be similar here? If the judge is going to
go after the 90 days, he'd have the power to do it,
but it would be like a continuance, and he'd have to
exercise that reasonably.
MS. KARLAN: Because you have to follow the
rules as laid down.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I know. You're
interpreting it literally, and --
MS. KARLAN: Yes. Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and that's --
MS. KARLAN: -- that is, there are many
mechanisms for ensuring that a victim --
JUSTICE BREYER: But I mean, if I thought,
for argument's sake --
MS. KARLAN: You can't --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- that Congress doesn't care about
whether it's after 90 days -- it was just to sort of
speed things up -- on that assumption, wouldn't you
still have a remedy, because it would be like the
unreasonable continuance?
MS. KARLAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: That is correct? I've got
it?
MS. KARLAN: If -- if you -- you can't have
a continuance from the 90 days. You can have a
continuance --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I'm thinking of --
MS. KARLAN: -- of sentencing itself.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm thinking of the
general problems --
MS. KARLAN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- of continuances for
sentencing.
MS. KARLAN: Yes, that's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: And your argument is that
90 days is long enough?
MS. KARLAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. I've got it.
MS. KARLAN: And I'd like to reserve the
remainder --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you one
question?
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I have a question going
just to that. It seems to me that if 3553, as -- as I said
-- maybe you shouldn't have agreed -- requires the
sentencing court to consider the totality of the
sentence it's imposing, including the restitution,
that would mean that the judge cannot impose a sentence
before the expiration of the 90 days; that is, has to
wait until the restitutionary issue is resolved to
impose the incarceration part of the sentence. No?
MS. KARLAN: I think the way that the
statute is written contemplates that the judge will do
the regular sentencing at which he imposes these other
terms, but may keep it open for 90 days.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question
before you sit down? Are you aware -- maybe you cite
them in the briefs and I didn't catch it -- of any cases
in which the courts -- a court of appeals has
dismissed an appeal because it was taken before the --
the civil remedy had been imposed?
MS. KARLAN: I'm not aware of a case that
does that directly under the Mandatory Victims
Restitution Act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Heytens.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF TOBY J. HEYTENS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. HEYTENS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
To begin by addressing the question just
raised by Justice Stevens, the government agrees that we
are not aware of any cases that directly confront this
finality question. There are, however, at least four
cases in the courts of appeals where one of two things
happened: Either the defendant took an appeal from the
original term of his imprisonment, then later took an
appeal from the order of restitution and the appeals
were consolidated. That happened, among other things,
in the Cheal case, which is the First Circuit decision
cited in our brief. There are at least two other
circuit court cases that do that as well.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was it within the 90 days?
MR. HEYTENS: No. It --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The restitution sentence
was after the 90 days?
MR. HEYTENS: That's correct,
Justice Scalia. Now --
JUSTICE STEVENS: In those -- in those -- in
that case, or any of those four cases, did they discuss
the problem of whether there was -- both appeals were
proper?
MR. HEYTENS: Justice Stevens, I'm not
aware of any case that squarely --
JUSTICE STEVENS: They just went ahead and
consolidated?
MR. HEYTENS: That's correct, Justice
Stevens. I'm not aware of any case that directly
confronts this issue. Now --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under your view of
things, however, that's fortuity that the underlying
conviction was still in the appeal process, because
there is no statute of limitations under your reading.
A victim could come 1, 2, 5, 10, 15, 20, or 100 years
later and say: I'm entitled to restitution.
MR. HEYTENS: The statute --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And absent prejudice to
the defendant, that would be okay?
MR. HEYTENS: Absent prejudice or some sort
of double jeopardy problem, that's correct. The
statute, by its terms, says as long as the victim comes
forward within 60 days of the discovery of his losses,
(d)(5) expressly says that the victim can do that. So I
think this --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry, that's
60 days after the restitution order has been issued. Am
I --
MR. HEYTENS: I believe that's incorrect,
Your Honor. The provision that we're referring to,
subsection (d)(5), is reproduced on page 6A of the
appendix to the government's brief. It's the, I
believe, second sentence of (d)(5) that we're
discussing right now that states: "If the victim
subsequently discovers further losses, the victim shall
have 60 days after the discovery of those losses in
which to petition the court for an amended restitution
order."
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That 60 days says after
there has been an -- a restitution order. I'm positing
the situation where the victim comes 10 years later.
MR. HEYTENS: That's correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That says there's no
restitution order. It's the initial action. And
you're saying that's okay? It's an endless statute?
MR. HEYTENS: It is -- it is certainly not
okay, Your Honor. Congress has directed that this
determination must be made and that it must be made
within 90 days. And Federal district courts are
required to comply with that obligation.
But what Congress has not done is to specify
a consequence that occurs in the situation where the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it -- it -- it's sort
of a ridiculous consequence that 5 years later, and
the judge who tried the original case is dead.
I think it's bad enough to have the issue of
whether this victim suffered $100,000 damages
decided by the judge, if that's what you're going to be
sentenced to, but at least it's being decided by the
judge who tried the case. And under your proposal, it
can be decided by some other judge who is just -- just
pulled in, because the -- the trial judge has -- has
been deceased. That doesn't seem to me to make any
sense at all.
MR. HEYTENS: Your Honor, I don't think it
is our proposal. Congress has not specified -- Congress
has certainly required this to be done within 90 days.
That meant Congress wanted it to be done within 90 days.
But Congress has not specified a consequence for --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the
consequence is the usual consequence when trial courts
make errors, which is to appeal.
MR. HEYTENS: Your Honor, I think this Court
said in Montalvo-Murillo what the consequence is in this
category of cases, which is when a trial court fails to
comply with a mandatory time limitation for doing
something that the court is required to do, the remedy
is -- unless Congress provides otherwise, such as it
does in the Speedy Trial Act, the remedy is not a loss
of the power on the part of the court to act.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't the statute
establish time limits for filing an appeal?
MR. HEYTENS: The statute does, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does it -- does it state a
remedy for it? I don't think so. But if you don't
comply with the time limit, you're too late; you can't
file the appeal.
MR. HEYTENS: Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Same thing here.
MR. HEYTENS: There's a critical difference
between a statute of limitations for filing a notice of
appeal and what's happening here that's illustrated by
the example given by Judge Gorsuch in his opinion for
the courts of appeals.
There can be two kinds of time limits. The
first kind can say, if you want to do something -- you're
not required to do it -- but if you want to do it,
you have to do it within a certain time. That's what a
statute of limitations is.
The second kind of time limit is to say you
must do something and you must do it within a second --
within a certain amount of time. This case is the
second category, just as the statute at issue in
Montalvo-Murillo was in the second category of cases, and
just as --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Except that that was a
bail question, where there's not issues of finality at
play, and bail is a question that repeats itself
throughout the proceedings. Defendants are denied bail
and then make a different showing of other
resources or less danger or whatever, and they get out.
And vice versa, defendants are out and are put in.
That's it. There are no finality questions there.
What do you do in this situation when you're
dealing with a criminal sentence where there are
finality rules?
And I'm going to tie that back to my starting
point, which is I'm looking in your brief for the
precedent and/or legal basis for us to treat restitution
as not part of the final judgment in this criminal
action. What -- what other examples do we have in the
criminal context?
MR. HEYTENS: We cited the things we cite in
our brief. There is, however, also a statute; I
apologize to the Court, it is not cited in our brief,
but it is section 18 U.S.C. section 3582(b). That
provision is captioned Imposition of a Sentence of
Imprisonment. Subsection (b) -- subsection (b) of that
provision says Effect of Finality of the Judgment. It
then says, "Notwithstanding the fact that a sentence of
imprisonment can subsequently be" modified or altered in
certain ways, and then this is the critical language: "a
judgment of conviction that includes such a sentence
constitutes a final judgment for all other purposes."
In this case there was a judgment of
conviction. It was entered on July 3, 2007. And that
judgment of conviction imposed a sentence of
imprisonment on Mr. Dolan.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, now suppose -- now
we're getting to exactly the point where I thought your
co-counsel, your sister counsel had a good point that I
wasn't -- hadn't thought through, and that is what
happens now in -- on day -- we're finished the
trial. The sentencing is over. They got the
presentence report, and the judge enters -- suppose he
entered a judgment but didn't say anything about
restitution, because he says: I'd like to give you a
chance to appeal this. And I'm not going to deal with
restitution for a month when the victim recovers -- all
within the 90 days.
Can the defendant appeal that piece of
paper?
MR. HEYTENS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: The answer is because of
this provision?
MR. HEYTENS: We think because of that
provision and because of general principles of law.
JUSTICE BREYER: Whoa, whoa. What about
what the -- what -- what you just heard quoted,
forgetting this particular sentence in the code, was that
a judgment isn't final -- you can only appeal a final
judgment until all the parts that are there, and the
restitution is part of it. And so until it's final, you
can't appeal it. That's what -- that's what the case
Parr, which it quoted. What is -- what is your response
to that?
MR. HEYTENS: That certainly establishes the
general rule that this Court has said repeatedly --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. HEYTENS: -- that the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts is established by Congress.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I just want to make
clear where we are. Justice Breyer said, can the
defendant appeal? You said yes. Suppose he said, must
the defendant appeal?
MR. HEYTENS: The defendant in our view is
required to appeal --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Must?
MR. HEYTENS: Once the district court enters
a judgment that imposes a sentence of imprisonment, if
the defendant wishes to appeal that sentence of
imprisonment he has 14 days to do so following the entry
of the judgment, yes, which is the normal rule in
Federal criminal cases.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And if he misses --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Even though -- even though
he says the restitution shall be held in abeyance
pending receipt of information?
MR. HEYTENS: Well, to the extent that he
has an objection to the district court's -- it depends
on the precise circumstances of the case, Justice
Kennedy. To the extent what he says is, I think the
district court needs to, when it imposes the sentence of
restitution, take into account the other aspects of the
sentence, at that time the issues become interrelated.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let me see if I understand
this. He has 14 days to appeal that. And if he doesn't
do that, then later within the 90 days or even after the
90 days, a sentence of restitution is imposed, he can --
he can appeal that sentence of restitution, right?
MR. HEYTENS: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: On the same grounds on
which he would have appealed the -- the sentence of
imprisonment, right?
MR. HEYTENS: Well, it -- to the extent --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If -- if it's an error in
the trial, he claims: I was innocent.
MR. HEYTENS: No, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No?
MR. HEYTENS: To the -- his time for
appealing from the judgment of conviction runs from the
entry of the judgment of conviction, which is
contemporaneous with the imposition of the sentence of
imprisonment. If he wants to appeal that, he needs to do
that like any other --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I suppose it's no -- no
imprisonment; it's supervised release. Now what
happens?
MR. HEYTENS: If it's -- if the judge imposes a
sentence of supervised release, I am not aware if there
is a specific statute.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but I mean, what's
bothering me about this, and I'm not aware -- but you're
quoting a sentence that wasn't in your brief and what I
hadn't taken in at all is the extent to which this is
inextricably mixed up with the rules of appeals, which are
very important.
So unless I have in my own mind how -- how
this all fits together, I -- I don't know how to decide
this case. I don't want to say something in here that's
going to muck up the -- the rules of appealing from a
criminal case.
Now, what you've told me is I'm supposed to say
that within 14 days of a -- of a judgment imposing imprisonment,
he has to appeal, but of course if it's supervised release,
he doesn't, or I'm not sure.
MR. HEYTENS: Justice Breyer, first and
foremost, the Court doesn't need to say anything about
any of these issues.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why not?
MR. HEYTENS: For one very simple reason:
The only thing that this defendant has ever attempted to
appeal at any point is the order of restitution. He
never attempted to appeal from his guilty plea.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but if -- but I have
to be able to write my reasons, and in doing that I have
to respond to the argument of the other side, which is
that the strongest reason for thinking Congress intended
this to be final and not beyond 90 days is that if you
don't do that, you muck up the rules of appeal. Now,
explain to me why that isn't so.
MR. HEYTENS: A couple of reasons, Your
Honor: First of all, I think it's actually one of the
strongest arguments against their position, because it
creates the unlikely scenario where it will be
routinely -- we know that Congress has authorized these
determinations to be made up to 90 days after the
imposition of sentence. So their rule would create the
situation where it would be completely consistent with
Congress's intent to routinely create a situation where
a Federal criminal defendant has to wait 3 months after
sentencing until he can appeal.
JUSTICE BREYER: Which is just what you say
he has to do if the sentence is supervised release.
MR. HEYTENS: What I'm saying, Justice
Breyer, is I -- I -- I know there is a statute that
governs imprisonment. I believe there is a similar
statute that governs a sentence of probation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What was that statute on
imprisonment?
MR. HEYTENS: 18 U.S.C. 3582(b), Justice
Scalia. I know there is a statute that governs that.
We also know there is a statute governing a term of
restitution itself. That's the provision cited, 3664(o),
which is reproduced at 11a of the appendix to our
brief --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I've got it.
MR. HEYTENS: -- which is the rules
governing finality with regard to an order imposing
restitution.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Heytens, one problem
with the -- we have said that notice of appeal -- that
that time limit is jurisdictional, which means if the
defendant misses that deadline, no appeal. And we're
leaving this in a nebulous state if the judge says,
within -- this is -- this is a judgment of conviction
and sentence, but I'm still thinking about the
restitution.
The defendant has to know at that point,
must I appeal that first judgment? Because if I don't,
I'll never be able to appeal it.
But on your reading, the defendant can't
wait. When the judge imposes a sentence, the defendant
must meet the time clock for notice of appeal from the
sentence.
MR. HEYTENS: That's correct,
Justice Ginsburg. In our view, the defendant -- when
the judgment of conviction was imposed on this case,
which imposed a sentence of imprisonment on Mr. Dolan,
the time for appealing the judgment of conviction and
the term of imprisonment began to run.
If I could go back to Justice Breyer's
question --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that -- that would
mean even if the judge says, I'm going to impose the
restitution order 10 days from now, defendant's time
clock for notice of appeal would begin at -- at the time
the sentence is imposed, not 10 days later when
restitution is --
MR. HEYTENS: That's correct. He files a
notice of appeal when the judgment of conviction
is entered, and then 10 days later he can file a second
notice of appeal, and courts of appeal can consolidate
that case in the ordinary course.
You don't -- to answer Justice Breyer's very
specific question about the supervised released, I have
been advised that a district court cannot impose a term
of supervised release unless it also imposes a sentence
of imprisonment. So that particular hypothetical that
Justice Breyer raised wouldn't arise. The court
can't just --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, let's --
let's suppose there's no 3664(d)(5), and we're back to
just 363(a)(1), which says when sentencing a defendant,
the court shall order restitution. What if the
judge doesn't -- is that mandatory? It has to be when
sentencing the defendant?
MR. HEYTENS: I don't think so, Your Honor.
I think what --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think even
without 3664(d)(5), the judge can say: I know it says
when I'm sentencing I've got to order restitution.
But 2 months later, he can do it?
MR. HEYTENS: Mr. Chief Justice, let me
amend my answer slightly. He -- the judge is required
to do it when sentencing --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but nothing
happens if he doesn't. Is that --
MR. HEYTENS: Well, the question then
becomes one of a remedy. The court is required to do it,
and the question becomes what is the remedy when the
court does not. And what the Court said in
Montalvo-Murillo is that we presume that Federal
district courts will comply with the law, and that it is
inappropriate in situations where Congress doesn't
specify a remedy for courts to impose their own remedy.
That was exactly the situation in Montalvo-Murillo.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why don't we go back to my
hypothetical --
MR. HEYTENS: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and just substitute the
word "fine" for "supervised release."
MR. HEYTENS: Justice Breyer, I'm -- I'm fairly
certain there is a statute that addresses the finality
when it comes to a sentence that imposes a term of a
fine, which is similar to the statute that addresses
finality of a judgment of conviction that imposes only
a term of imprisonment.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not -- I'm not an
expert in this area, as you can see. And -- and I need
to have a place to go to look so that I can see that
these things, in your view, all work out, and you're
not creating some odd appellate system. Do you have any
suggestions for me as to what I could go and read and
look at that would help me?
MR. HEYTENS: Justice Breyer, to address
your very specific fine question, there is in fact a
statute that addresses that as well. That is 18 U.S.C.
3572(c). It's structured very similarly to the -- the
section regarding judgments of imprisonment that I
quoted to the Court earlier, and Congress has addressed
that. It says: "Notwithstanding the fact that a
sentence to pay a fine can subsequently be altered in
various respects, a judgment that includes such a
sentence is a final judgment for all other" --
JUSTICE BREYER: Can the (o) -- you
remember -- you know what I'm referring to by (o)?
MR. HEYTENS: Yes, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Can that be
read to refer to initial -- an initial judgment of
restitution as well as an amended judgment?
MR. HEYTENS: Absolutely, Justice Breyer.
That's exactly what the First Circuit said in the Cheal
case, which is cited in our brief. The First Circuit in
that case addressed an initial judgment that said,
similarly, somewhat, to the judgment in this one -- the
original judgment, if you recall, in this case says the
Mandatory Victims Restitution Act is applicable;
however, the court does not have sufficient information
to calculate restitution at this time. What the First
Circuit reasoned in Cheal is that that can be
interpreted as a judgment imposing a restitution
obligation, which is thus final under subsection (o).
If you conclude that, you don't need to look at any
other statute to resolve --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even though there's no
amount given?
MR. HEYTENS: Yes, Justice Scalia. Because
the one thing we know for certain is that even if it had
stated an amount, the fact that the amount can be amended
later doesn't deprive the judgment of finality.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Simply because when you
state an amount, that amount can be amended later, that
leads to the conclusion that you need not even state an
amount? Do you do the same thing for imprisonment? You
say: I'm going to send you to prison; I'm not sure how
many years, but I'm going to send you to prison. Is
that appealable right away?
MR. HEYTENS: Well, Justice Scalia, the
district court is not permitted to do any of this.
Congress has required the district court to set the
amount --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that, but
district courts don't always do what they are supposed
to. And it seems to me a very strange result that
you're --
MR. HEYTENS: It's true that, regrettably,
district courts sometimes don't do what they are
supposed to. What this Court has said, most notably in
Montalvo-Murillo, is that we should assume that they
will, and that it's inappropriate for courts to craft
legal rules that are based on the presumption that they
are going to violate their legal obligations.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this
hypothetical? Supposing the defendant fails to appeal
when he's sentenced, and then 90 days later, they impose
a restitution order and he appeals from that. May he
raise the issues about guilt and innocence and error in
the trial in that appeal?
MR. HEYTENS: Justice Stevens, just to make
sure I understand -- I want to make sure I understand
the hypothetical -- it's that the district court
sentences him, enters a judgment of conviction, and then
90 days later imposes an order of restitution?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Correct.
MR. HEYTENS: Okay. In that situation, no.
It is the government's view that he has -- the time for
appealing the judgment of conviction and the sentence of
imprisonment has run.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But he -- he can appeal
just the restitution order.
MR. HEYTENS: Just the restitution order, in
that situation, yes. Now, if he has appealed them both,
they can be consolidated, which has been done in several
cases in the courts --
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, I understand that.
MR. HEYTENS: -- in the circuit court of
appeals.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You attach no significance
to the fact that in this case the judge said: I shall
order restitution? It's the same as if he said nothing
at all about restitution, so far as you are concerned?
MR. HEYTENS: We think this makes it an
easier case, in terms of it establishes that there is no
conceivable prejudice to Mr. Dolan as a result of the
delay in this case.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask you this
question: If we conclude there's a hole in the statute
that Congress has to amend, is it more likely that
Congress will cure the statute if we rule for you or if
we rule against you? It's pretty clear, the answer to
that, isn't it?
MR. HEYTENS: Yes, Justice Stevens. I think
Montalvo-Murillo supplies the answer to that.
Montalvo-Murillo says, where Congress does not supply a
remedy for violation of a statutory time obligation, it
is inappropriate for courts to invent their own in order
to coerce district courts into complying --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So this then becomes a
goal, not a time line -- a deadline?
MR. HEYTENS: I think -- at some point, it
becomes a debate over precise wording, Justice Ginsburg.
I think it is a deadline. I think Congress intended for
district courts to do this. I think district courts who
have sworn an oath to uphold the Constitution and laws
of the United States are required to do it.
The question is: What is the remedy in the
rare, regrettable situation where they do not do it? And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So a -- a defendant
who is sentenced to a week in prison, and he decides,
that's no big deal, I'm not going to appeal, and then
finds out, you know, 90 days later he has got to pay a
million dollars in restitution, is just out of luck,
right?
MR. HEYTENS: Well, that would be -- yes.
That would be our view, Mr. Chief Justice. Now, what I
would say is, it is, first of all, our view that the Court
doesn't need to resolve any of this. But, second of all,
one of the reasons is there is another way the Court
could resolve this, which is to follow the approach the
Court took in its decision in Corey v. United States,
which is cited in the blue brief.
Now, Corey involved a statute. It's
presentence -- it's pre-Federal sentencing guidelines.
It involves a statute that said if, at the time of the
sentencing, the district court feels like it needs more
information to decide how long to send the defendant to
jail for, it may commit the defendant to the discretion
of the Attorney General for a period of either 3 to
6 months; get, essentially, a PSR, before there were
PSRs; and then make a determination then.
The Court in Corey faced the question: When
the district court does that -- it says, I'm going to
give you to the Attorney General, and we'll come back in
6 months and decide what your sentence will be -- when
does the defendant have to appeal? That was the
question before the Court in Corey.
What the Court said in Corey is that the
defendant may appeal either at the time he is committed
to the discretion of the Attorney General or at the time
the district court imposes the final sentence. The
reason the Court said that -- this is the language
that's cited in the blue brief -- is the Court said it
would be extraordinary to tell a Federal criminal
defendant that he might have to wait up to 6 months in
order to take a notice of appeal from his judgment of
conviction.
JUSTICE BREYER: Look, you straightened me
out, from your point of view. But now you've mixed me
up again.
(Laughter.)
MR. HEYTENS: Sorry. I didn't realize,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because I think you said
that the defendant is just out of luck. But, previously,
you had said that (o) applies, so I thought what you
were saying was that the sentence of imprisonment is
immediately appealable and must be appealed within
14 days because of that 3582.
MR. HEYTENS: That's our --
JUSTICE BREYER: And then you said (o)
applies, and (o) says that a sentence that imposes an
order of restitution is a final judgment. So if (o)
applies, when, 8 months later or 20 months later,
that restitution is made final and embodied in another
judgment, that is a final judgment which can't be
appealed.
So if you're right about (o) applying, then
the answer to the question is, no, he is not out of
luck. Now, don't just agree with me because I seem to
be on your side in this question.
(Laughter.)
MR. HEYTENS: No --
JUSTICE BREYER: I've got to figure this
out.
MR. HEYTENS: I apologize, Justice Breyer.
The government's position is that at the time the
judgment of conviction and the sentence of imprisonment
are entered, that is the time at which the defendant has
to appeal and, in our view, he may appeal. Later, when
the sentence of restitution is imposed, that is when
he appeals that.
What I was suggesting is that, to the extent
the Court has any concern about that, the alternative
way of resolving this issue would be the same way the
Court approached the issue in Corey, and you could say
that the defendant could appeal at either time.
Now, we think that would be incorrect, but
it would be open to the Court to do so to -- or to leave
the issue open in order to resolve this case. Because
as I said before, this defendant never attempted to
appeal his judgment of conviction or his original term
of imprisonment. So it's not, in this case, necessary
to decide what exactly would have happened had he
attempted to do so.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This criminal judgment of
restitution -- I assume it's the judge who finds that the
victim suffered so much money?
MR. HEYTENS: That's correct,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does he find that beyond a
reasonable doubt?
MR. HEYTENS: No, Justice Scalia. The
burden --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just more likely than not?
MR. HEYTENS: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it's a criminal --
it's a criminal judgment?
MR. HEYTENS: That's what Congress has
provided. And in this Court's decision in Oregon v.
Ice, the Court, admittedly in dictum, stated that
restitution determinations are a category of
determinations that have been historically made by the
court, not by the jury. And regardless of what anyone
thinks is the answer to that question, it is certainly
not within the question presented. It has not been
raised at any point by the Petitioner in this case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose that an answer to
the Chief Justice's concern about the 1-week sentence and
-- and he's not concerned -- is that all criminal
defendants know that an adjudication of guilt is
preclusive of later issues with -- with respect to civil
-- civil liability, and they take their chances.
But that -- that points up a difference
between this case and Montalvo-Murillo. In this case,
finality is central to the system, and that wasn't --
that's not really -- wasn't really true in Montalvo.
MR. HEYTENS: That's certainly correct,
Justice Kennedy. That was by its terms a bail
determination, which by its nature is not a final
determination in the sense that a criminal statute is,
though the Court's language doesn't really suggest that
that would make any difference. And I would say that
some of the other cases in this same line of cases,
including some of the ones Justice Breyer mentioned, did
raise finality concerns. There was a very strong
finality concern raised in the Peabody Coal case. There
were finality concerns raised in Brock, that Congress
had said this needs to be done, and once it's done, it
needs to be done. And so, there are -- some of the
cases in this same line have also involved finality,
admittedly not in the criminal context.
But I think the -- the most important thing
that the Court said in -- the two most important things
that the Court said in Montalvo-Murillo, as are relevant
here, is that, first, when Congress doesn't specify a
remedy -- and Congress has not specified a remedy in
this case -- it's inappropriate for courts to impose
their own.
The second thing that the Court said is that
we should presume that Federal district courts are going
to comply with legal obligations, and we shouldn't make
rules based on the assumption that they won't.
And third is that when courts do impose
remedies, they shouldn't make -- impose a remedy where
there's a profound lack of fit between the violation that
occurred and the remedy that the defendant is asking
them to impose.
Let me give you an example on that. The
general rule in Federal criminal litigation is that the
Federal district court is supposed to impose sentence
without unnecessary delay. Now, say the district court
violates that obligation. It takes too long to impose a
sentence. I think it would be extraordinary to suggest
that the remedy of a district court's unnecessary delay
in sentencing the defendant means the defendant should
get off scot-free.
The remedy is to tell the district court you
have taken too long to impose the sentence; impose the
sentence forthwith.
The same thing is true here. Congress has
told the district court you need to impose restitution
in every case where the defendant is convicted of a
crime of violence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, your argument is
"not to exceed 90 days" means the same thing as "without
undue delay"?
MR. HEYTENS: We don't think it means the
same thing, Mr. Chief Justice. What we think it means
is the violation should have the same consequences. The
violation is to say if you don't do what you are
supposed to, the remedy is to do it immediately. The
remedy isn't to say you don't have to do it anymore.
If there are no further questions, the
government urges that the judgment of the court below be
affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Karlan, you have 4 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAMELA S. KARLAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. KARLAN: I have three points -- excuse
me -- to make: The first goes to what the remedy is
here and what the error is here. The error here
occurred when the district court did not impose
restitution. The government should have filed a timely
appeal under Rule 4. They had 30 days to do so. The
government did not appeal the failure to make
restitution.
That error is not before this Court now.
What's before this Court is a second judgment.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They couldn't do that
until the end of the 90 days. If the judge has 90 days
to order restitution, that's a vicious cycle argument.
MS. KARLAN: No, Justice Sotomayor, because
had the -- had the government on October 28 looked and
said, there's no restitution order in this case, they
could have filed an appeal then under Rule 4, and they
would have won. They didn't do so.
Second --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, that's rather
theoretical because if that -- I mean, the -- the judge
surely would have acted before he could process an
appeal.
MS. KARLAN: Well, he lacks actually the --
the power to do that. Once the appeal is taken, he
can't do that. And may I just say that here I think the
critical rule to understand is one sentence, one appeal.
So turning first --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's not true. I
don't know if you've had time to look at 3582 or 35 --
MS. KARLAN: Yes, I have.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Those do appear to say
that once there's a term of imprisonment, that that
constitutes a final judgment.
MS. KARLAN: But they do so in the context
of Section 3553(a), which is cited on page 6 of the
yellow brief, which says "the court shall impose a
sentence."
Now, the different components can each be
added together. But there is one sentence in a criminal
case on a particular charge, and that sentence can
include restitution, it can include a fine, it can
include imprisonment. That doesn't make it three
sentences. And only when all of those have been imposed
is there a final judgment. Until then, the judgment --
JUSTICE ALITO: It can also include
forfeiture. What's -- what is the rule for forfeiture?
MS. KARLAN: I don't know the rule for
forfeiture. I do know the rule for all of the other criminal
proceedings, which is 3582(b), to which the government
refers; 3572(c) for fines; 3562(b) for community
release; and 3664(o) for restitution. All of those have
to make one sentence, and then there is one appeal.
Under our rule, which I think comports with
the plain language of the statute, we know when an
appeal takes place, and there will be one appeal. Under
the government's rule --
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the difference -- in
response to the last argument that your opponent made,
what is the difference between the provision here and
Rule 32(b)(1) of the criminal rules, the court must
impose sentence without unnecessary delay?
MS. KARLAN: There, the question is, did it
do it without unnecessary delay? Here the question is,
did it do it within 90 days? When it didn't, the
government had to appeal. The government did not do
that.
JUSTICE ALITO: So if the -- I didn't
understand the answer. If the sentence is not imposed
without unnecessary delay, the consequence is that there
can be no sentence?
MS. KARLAN: No. This Court has never
decided what the rule means there. But this is a
statute. And if I could turn to the question of what
the statute --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Before you do that, tell me
what the government appeal would consist of. The 90 days
has expired --
MS. KARLAN: And the judgment of August 8th
became final.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you -- you tell
me the court -- the court has no ability to impose
restitution after 90 days.
MS. KARLAN: That's right. The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the use of appealing?
MS. KARLAN: Because on appeal you say the
court erred, and it imposed an illegal sentence --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the appellate court says
too bad --
MS. KARLAN: No --
JUSTICE SCALIA -- 90 days are up.
MS. KARLAN: No, Justice Scalia. In the
same way that if a court failed to impose a mandatory minimum
sentence and there was a final judgment, the government
could appeal. And the fact that the initial sentence
didn't do that doesn't mean anything at that point.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There is no time limit on
the mandatory minimum.
MS. KARLAN: But the -- but -- but, Your
Honor, if the government appeals an illegal sentence,
that sentence can be corrected and the new mandate from
the court of appeals saying you erred in not imposing
mandatory restitution starts the 90-day clock again.
Now, this is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Could you go back to --
could you go back to Justice Alito's question,
because --
MS. KARLAN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- that was exactly the
same thing. I think what he may be saying, though, is
it makes more sense to read these statutes as saying
imprisonment or community -- or community service, a
form of supervised release, or fines -- I don't know
about forfeiture -- can be appealed as separate final
judgments, because then you don't have to wait for
90 days.
MS. KARLAN: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: And if you read it that
way, it's fairer to the defendant, and you don't have to
worry about the restitution appeal because of (o).
Now, what blocks the reading -- what blocks
the reading I just gave?
MS. KARLAN: The principle that there must
be one sentence that determines each of the punishments
for a particular crime.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:08 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
60:15 allowed 6:17 35:14,24,25 approach 48:16 60:14
43:23 38:19,25 39:12 April 1:9 b 13:25 34:3,3
47:10 41:13,13 46:1 argument 1:12 49:5 59:16,17
14:1 7:20 19:14 55:17,18 56:3 14:8 26:21 52:25
27:25 amount 3:20 56:9,11,13 28:3 38:22 balance 12:21
44:13 4:20 7:19 57:14,17,17 54:21 55:10,24 13:15,18 14:9
33:21 24:1 33:2 appealable argument's barred 4:14
analogous 23:12 appealed 37:3 54:3 basis 7:8 33:19
and/or 33:19 59:25 36:19 began 41:1
44:10 announces 5:9 37:11 38:6 Assistant 1:17 2:4,7,10 3:8
4:18 58:21 51:18 believe 7:2
42:10 47:12,15 22:6 23:22 attach 46:25 39:17
58:5 29:2 32:19 38:19 51:12,16 beyond 38:24
6:2,9,15,23,24 appears 18:24 attorney's 18:14 boil 20:24
8:7 12:1 19:15 20:4 39:25 authorizes 3:15 15:19,21,24
22:1,4 24:22 10:1,14,17,21 22:25 57:12 consequences
27:23 28:16 11:4 22:7 28:1 59:23,23 55:1
29:1,5,9 31:5 28:5 31:20 complete 5:8,14 consider 27:7
25:5,7 31:10 33:2 41:22 42:5,9 completely 39:9 considering
34:10 35:14 42:12 48:5,12 complication 22:22
36:16 38:5,7 52:15 54:21,25 24:17 consist 58:13
40:23 41:14 55:8 60:12 comply 30:25 consistent 12:2
35:4,8 44:9,10,12 circle 8:14 32:1,11 42:19 39:9
37:16 47:1,5,7 51:11 circuit 8:8,21 53:23 consolidate
38:12,15 51:14 52:13,21 19:22 28:16,18 complying 47:19 41:13
39:13,16 52:21 53:8,19 44:8,9,16 component 8:23 consolidated
42:23 54:19 56:2 46:23 components 28:15 29:7
57:2 60:13,14 circumstances 8:23 17:8 46:20
cases 8:13 14:9 19:19 36:16 56:25 constitutes 7:19
16:14,15 19:17 cite 8:15 27:18 comports 57:15 34:9 56:20
23:22 27:19 33:23 conceivable 47:6 Constitution
59:16,20 28:9,11,18 cited 21:23 concern 51:5 48:1
29:1 31:25 28:17 33:23,25 52:15 53:8 contemplates
21:23 catch 27:19 civil 15:9 18:9 conclude 44:19 context 19:10
30:7 category 31:25 18:15,17,25 47:9 23:19 33:22
33:3,4 52:8 19:7,12,25 conclusion 45:5 53:13 56:21
40:1 causes 14:12 20:1 23:12,19 confirmed 4:2 continuance
48:18 central 52:22 27:22 52:18,19 confront 28:9 25:14 26:6,11
56:23 certain 3:13 claim 11:18 confronts 29:10 26:12
24:3 59:14 19:5 20:2 21:1 16:11,12
18:21,22 challenging collateral 16:15 35:21 38:23 29:13 34:8,11
44:15 19:13 20:23 23:23 39:6 42:20 34:12 37:11,12
6:10 44:8,16 committed consequence correct 5:16 7:2
12:6,8 Chief 3:3,9 9:1,6 49:10 31:2,4,19,21 7:17 9:11 10:4
17:8 18:9 9:12,18,23 community 31:21,24 58:6 14:17 20:10,14
20:11
26:7,8 54:14,18 55:6 cycle 55:24 49:6 51:15 3:20 4:20 5:10
28:23 55:15,20,21 decided 16:1 10:3,8,11,18
30:17 56:23 57:22 D 31:8,9,11 58:9 10:19 30:23
41:10 58:8,18,18,23 d 3:1 29:24 30:6 decides 48:6 49:2 53:1,2
51:20 58:24 59:4,13 30:8 decision 21:24 determinations
courts 3:16 damages 31:7 28:16 48:17 39:7 52:8,9
59:12 27:20 28:11 date 4:19 5:4 9:2 decisions 20:22 22:3
34:16 45:15,19,22 14:25 11:14 12:11 didn't 49:23
55:8 46:21 47:18,19 dates 19:15 14:12 15:17 difference 15:12
47:25,25 53:19 day 4:10,18 5:18 17:18,20 19:7 15:14 18:2
21:10 36:15 52:6 7:9 8:18 9:16 29:19 35:1,24 17:8,19 19:16
38:10 53:3 54:11 10:3,9,10,19 35:25 36:1,6 21:10 33:10
court-made 10:23 11:5,6 38:17 39:11 56:25
4:2,3,5 co-counsel 34:16 12:24 14:18 40:22 41:24 direction 4:5
5:4,7 craft 45:22 16:5 20:3,7,8 42:2 46:1 48:5 directly 27:24
7:10 8:9 create 39:8,10 24:16 25:5,13 48:23,24 49:7 28:9 29:9
10:2,7 creates 39:5 26:3,11,22 49:10,16 50:1 discovering 7:8
creating 43:13 27:10,16 28:19 50:25 51:8,12 discovers 30:10
12:25 crime 19:5 54:20 28:22 29:23 54:3,12,12,19 discovery 29:23
19:18 60:11 30:2,11,14,24 60:5 30:11
21:22 crimes 3:13 31:17,18 34:25 defendants discretion 48:24
23:1,17 criminal 6:7,9 36:7,22,23,24 13:17 19:12 49:11
28:6 12:23 14:14 38:9,24 39:7 33:9,12 52:17 discuss 29:1
30:12 15:8 16:14 41:6,8,12 46:2 defendant's discussing 30:9
32:2 17:8 18:3,6,7 46:10 48:8 3:12 18:18 dismissed 27:21
33:25 18:18,22 19:8 50:5 54:22 41:6 dispositive 4:5
36:4,18 19:17 20:1 55:17,23,23 defer 24:9 district 3:14,16
41:17,20 23:18,22 24:20 58:1,13,19 delay 23:13 4:8,17,23
42:15,17 33:15,20,22 59:2 60:2 24:19 47:7 10:25 11:8
43:21 36:9 38:7 dead 31:5 54:8,11,23 30:24 36:4,15
45:11,12 39:11 49:15 deadline 21:2 57:23,25 58:6 36:18 41:17
46:8,23 51:17 52:3,4 40:9 47:21,24 denied 33:9 42:19 45:11,12
52:16 53:2,13 deadlines 3:22 Department 45:15,19 46:8
54:6 57:1,10 deal 34:23 48:7 1:18 14:23,25 47:19,25,25
51:5 57:22 dealing 33:15 depends 36:15 48:22 49:4,12
52:7 critical 32:15 debate 47:23 deprive 45:1 53:22 54:7,8
53:15,16 34:7 56:13 deceased 31:13 design 13:25 54:11,14,18
54:7,8 cure 47:11 decide 16:14 determination 55:15
48:23
38:21 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 46:1 33:16 34:4 F.R.A.P 8:24
40:24 essentially 49:1 fairer 60:5 45:1 52:22 G
establish 32:7 fairly 43:3 53:7,8,9,12 G 3:1
exactly 34:15 30:24 35:21 18:3,5,22 24:2 54:6
59:20 42:18 49:15 43:23 57:3 getting 34:15
49:10 54:22 filed 11:24 55:16 40:15 44:8,9 22:14,15 34:22
excuse 4:7 55:12 56:3 44:15 48:13 49:5 54:5
8:11,24 extend 24:12 10:8,10,18,18 15:14 36:7 goal 47:21
41:12 extended 6:11 11:21 13:17 foremost 38:13 goes 18:4,5
extension 13:18 15:23,25,25 forfeiture 57:8,8 55:13
36:4 37:25 51:4 18:15 20:11,16 form 59:24 12:9 22:10,11
extra 16:5 20:19 21:6,24 forth 13:9 22:14,15 24:8
35:11,11,13 forward 29:23 31:8 33:17
13:23 34:5 53:1 56:20 functionally 53:22
37:6 46:4 47:1 59:6 59:5,25 further 7:6 Gorsuch 32:18
failed 59:4 finality 15:16 30:10 55:5 governing 14:24
7:7 11:23 40:6,21 41:10 58:18 59:4 13:25 31:6 33:3 51:6
28:8 42:3,9,14,25 imposed 4:10,17 incorrect 30:4 51:7,11
43:3,16 44:3,7 5:24 6:16 51:9 issued 30:2
57:11 44:23 45:10,18 17:10 27:22 incredibly 15:13 issues 23:23
59:5 46:6,12,18,23 34:12 36:24 inextricably 33:7 36:20
47:4,14,22 40:23,24 41:8 38:1 38:14 46:4
30:7 50:6,19,22 58:23 9:17 11:2 it's 14:2 27:8
50:23 51:20,24 52:2 imposes 7:24 23:16 24:8 37:19 45:22
52:5,24 54:24 11:10 27:15 36:13 44:14 53:10,19
historically 52:9 40:18 41:18 initial 5:9 6:4 I'll 21:18 23:15
32:8 imposition 34:2 intend 21:5
51:15 41:19 42:24 34:13 36:5,7 22:23 24:2 12:13,15 14:11
38:9 39:17,20 interlocutory 21:9 22:10
34:18 Ice 52:7 43:8,20 45:6 interpretation 24:19,25 25:12
42:13 illegal 58:23 46:15 50:3,24 16:7 21:12,14 27:9,14 31:5,8
11:19 50:4 55:3 42:20 45:22 interpreting 41:5 42:1,6,10
28:2,3,5,20 important 15:17 incarceration inures 18:10 4:12,15 7:3,19
29:4,8 38:2 53:14,15 27:12 invalid 15:2 8:1,18 11:20
30:4 impose 3:16,17 include 57:3,3,4 invent 47:18 11:20 15:25
31:15 4:3,24 5:13 57:7 involved 23:23 16:3,15,18,20
32:8,13 11:19 21:9 includes 17:4 48:19 53:12 17:4,7,16 18:1
33:23 24:4 27:9,12 34:8 43:24 involves 17:8 18:13,13,16,17
41:5,17 42:21 including 12:4 48:21 20:11,16,19
37:1 46:2 53:19,25 27:8 53:6 involving 13:8 21:5,6,11,24
54:1,4,7,9,15 income 12:10,12 issue 8:9,22 22:16 33:20
39:2 54:15,18 55:15 34:4,8,9,10,12
35:11,12 24:6,24 25:5,7 2:9 3:6,7,9 44:2,24 48:8 26:22 29:22
37:11 25:11,18,21,24 4:13,16 5:2,6 52:17 56:16 48:23 54:9,15
38:9 26:2,8,13,15 5:16,19 6:3,14 57:9,10,16 look 9:20 23:21
26:18,21,24 7:2,12,17,22 59:24 24:21 43:11,15
43:7,24 27:2,4,17 28:1 7:25 8:3,5,12 knowing 19:2 44:19 49:19
44:5,6 28:5,8,19,21 9:4,11,22,25 56:16
28:24,25 29:4 10:4,16,20,24 L looked 56:1
46:9,14 29:6,8,11,18 11:7,13,17 lack 54:2 looking 10:5
50:9,12 30:1,14,18 12:16,19 13:14 lacks 56:10 33:18
51:13 31:3,20 32:6,9 14:2,8,17 15:4 laid 25:17 looks 22:12
52:4 32:13,14 33:6 15:6,8,13,16 language 16:10 loses 4:23 12:11
56:20 34:14 35:4,8 15:20,23 16:12 34:7 49:13 loss 32:4
58:15 35:19,22,23 16:17,21 17:1 53:3 57:16 losses 10:8 29:23
36:3,10,11,16 17:3,12,15,23 lapsed 8:18 30:10,11
60:1 37:9,16,22 20:10,14,16,20 Laughter 49:22 lot 12:9 22:13
39:13,15,19,21 22:18 23:4,7 law 8:19 11:21 50:16
22:6 41:4,15,20,22 25:4,6,10,16 21:11 35:7 M
42:5,9,12,23 25:20,22 26:1 42:19 making 13:8
40:8 44:1,3,4,7,21 26:20,23,25 leads 45:5 mandate 59:12
4:7,14,25 46:6,11,16,22 56:10,17,21 leaving 40:10 5:21 17:21,23
46:25 47:8,14 57:9,24 58:8 legal 33:19 17:24 27:24
7:5 47:20,23 48:5 58:15,20,22 45:23,24 53:23 32:1 42:1
8:1 48:12 49:19,24 59:1,3,10,19 legislation 12:3 44:13 59:4,9
9:1,6 49:25 50:7,20 60:3,9 13:4 14:25 59:14
50:22 51:17,21 keep 27:16 let's 6:22 41:22 matter 1:11
51:22,24 52:1 Kelly 19:20 41:23 60:15
12:1 52:3,14,25 Kennedy 13:19 liability 14:13 mean 7:13,14
13:3,19 53:6 54:21,25 14:3 35:22 52:19 10:22 14:6
14:3,10 55:8,22,25 36:3,11,17 limit 32:11,25 16:24 20:23
15:5,7 56:6,15,18 46:25 52:14,25 40:8 59:8 21:1 25:24
57:7,19 58:4 kind 8:13 19:7 limitation 32:1 27:9 37:22
16:5,16 58:12,17,21,24 32:21,25 limitations 41:5 56:7 59:7
59:2,3,8,16,17 kinds 19:19 29:14 32:16,24 means 40:8
59:20 60:4,12 20:24 32:20 limits 32:7,20 54:12,22,24,25
18:2 Justice's 52:15 knew 11:15,17 line 47:21 53:5 58:9
JUTICE 17:22 13:9 53:12 meant 14:18,19
know 16:5,8 literally 25:19 31:18
21:8,15 K 25:18 38:4 litigation 21:25 mechanisms
22:7 Kapelushnik 39:6,16,22,23 54:6 25:23
8:15 40:14 42:6 long 6:8 7:8 medical 12:7
38:3 net 13:23 22:16 27:16 particular 35:10 55:12
new 59:12 opinion 8:20 parts 35:12 50:23
note 18:23 oral 1:11 2:2,5 pay 43:23 48:8 23:11
14:11,15 32:16 40:7,19 order 3:24 5:14 Peabody 53:8 24:25
49:17 8:10 15:25,25 penalties 22:22 25:13 32:5
33:4 50:7,8,9,14 41:6,25 42:7 24:12 25:9 precise 36:16
45:21 60:6 46:3,10,17,18 48:25 47:23
52:21 oath 48:1 47:2,18 49:17 periods 3:22 precisely 8:12
object 9:3 50:9 51:11 permitted 45:11 16:4
20:12 44:18 47:17 ordinary 41:14 10:5 30:12 19:20
24:10 54:9 Oregon 52:6 Petitioner 1:4,16 prejudice 29:18
42:8 obligations original 28:13 2:4,10 3:8 29:20 47:6
45:24 53:23 31:5 44:12 52:13 55:11 presented 52:12
occur 3:20 9:14 51:13 piece 35:1 presentence
43:10 once 3:22 4:21 Parr 21:22 22:4 47:22 49:20 pre-Federal
45:5 5:7 8:17 9:17 22:4 35:15
PSRs 49:2 43:14 44:5 37:17,20 38:10 response 5:13
23:1 14:14 18:18 60:7,8 released 41:16 responsibility
48:6 20:1 ready 9:9 relevant 15:12 13:12
23:1 60:10 really 8:6 11:1 remainder 27:1 restitute 21:3
purpose 19:10 13:20,20 18:9 remedies 54:1 restitution 3:11
29:2,21 purposes 34:9 52:23,23 53:3 20:1 25:7 26:5 3:25 4:20,24
put 22:25 25:2 reason 4:9 15:14 27:22 32:2,4 5:11,14,20,24
reasonable 48:3 53:18,18 8:21 9:2,9,14
13:9 33:9 5:13 13:21,22 25:15 remember 44:2 16:1,3,20,23
19:24 20:25 reasoned 44:16 render 4:12 17:4 18:7,13
56:8 27:3,4,17 28:7 39:2 48:15 35:18 19:19 21:5,9
47:9 48:3 49:3 receipt 36:13 report 11:15 27:25 28:14,21
52:11,12 57:24 12:23 14:19 reproduced 30:6 30:15,19 33:19
18:4 59:17 recommended required 9:4 36:12,19,24,25
55:5 recovers 34:24 32:2,22 36:2 40:5,13 41:6,9
quite 11:24 referring 16:6 48:2 44:6,13,15,17
10:22 regarding 4:6 resolved 27:11 54:18 55:16,19
16:19,22 43:20 resolving 51:6 55:24 56:2
R 3:1 regardless 52:10 resources 33:11 57:3,13 58:19
30:5 34:2 raise 46:4 53:7 regrettable 48:4 respect 11:13 59:14 60:6
35:5,7 raised 28:8 regrettably 16:21 52:18 restitutionary
57:21 41:20 52:13 45:18 respects 43:24 6:16 27:11
rare 48:4 related 8:22 Respondent 13:24 45:16
23:5
12:22 saying 6:10,15 55:21 56:5 57:5 33:14 39:9,10
20:9,20 6:21,25 10:22 section 3:15,19 sentencing 3:16 42:22 46:12,19
21:3 13:10,14,15 7:17 10:6 4:1,6,22 5:4,7 48:4
30:9 24:14,21,23 17:17 18:23,24 5:9 6:4 8:11 situations 18:3
37:4 30:20 39:15 21:18 22:20 9:20,20,24 42:20
45:9 50:3 59:13,21 34:1,1 43:20 10:9 11:22 Sixth 19:14
50:14 59:22 56:22 12:24 13:17 slight 24:17
says 7:18 8:22 see 16:8,9 17:22 15:9,16 18:22 slightly 17:19
10:2,7 13:21 send 45:7,8 20:3 22:19,21 society 14:15
16:19,22 17:1 sense 18:12 26:19 27:7,15 somewhat 44:11
20:17 22:10,13 31:14 53:2 34:19 39:12 sorry 30:1 49:23
22:7 28:1 22:15 24:3 59:22 41:24 42:2,7 sort 26:3 29:20
41:22 29:22,24 30:14 sentence 3:12,23 42:11 48:20,22 31:3
48:5 30:18 34:4,5 4:4,10,18,25 54:12 Sotomayor 4:7
55:8 34:22 36:12,17 5:10,21 6:16 separate 18:13 4:14 5:12,17
40:10 41:5,24 6:18 7:23 8:23 18:14,19 59:25 8:8 19:21
49:4 50:8 18:1 20:8 serving 23:1 55:22,25 56:15
17:16 Scalia 4:25 5:3,6 24:13,14 25:2 9:13,14,16 sovereign 18:5,6
7:5,13,21,23 25:2,3 27:8,9 10:2,4,7,7,22 18:11
24:20 8:1,4 14:10 27:12 28:21 11:1 22:9 spare 19:6
36:8 16:6 17:6,12 30:8 33:15 45:12 specific 37:21
47:11,12 20:6,12 23:3,5 34:2,5,8,12 sets 3:13 41:16 43:17
55:17 23:25 27:4 35:10 36:5,6 setting 10:11 specifically
57:8,9 28:19,21,24 36:18,20,24,25 23:2 17:16
31:3 32:6,9,13 37:3,13,20,24 Seventh 8:21 specified 31:16
32:14 36:21 39:8,14,18 short 6:8 31:19 53:18
24:23 39:19,22 40:2 41:8,18 43:5 side 38:22 50:17 42:21 53:17
33:16 44:21,23 45:3 43:23,25 46:14 significance speed 26:4
40:3 45:10,14 51:17 49:6,12 50:3,8 46:25 Speedy 32:4
53:24 51:21,22,24 50:24 51:2 similar 25:12 squarely 29:5
52:1,3 58:12 52:15 54:7,10 39:17 43:6 Stanford 1:15
46:15 59:2,3,8 56:24 57:1,2 44:11 starting 33:17
55:10
4:3 12:7 substantial 36:19 49:17 20:24 21:13 56:16 59:8
30:9 12:12 52:19 26:4 28:11,15 timely 8:10
substitute 19:4 taken 27:21 29:12 33:23 55:16
succeed 5:23 56:11 think 10:12,14 tire 14:24
12:4,22 suffered 31:7 takes 54:9 57:17 10:24 12:17,20 Title 18:24
17:17 51:19 talk 21:17 16:10 21:13 TOBY 1:17 2:6
22:19 suffers 13:12 talks 9:23 22:21 23:7 24:18 28:3
27:14 sufficient 44:14 technical 11:13 27:13 29:25 told 38:8 54:18
sufficiently 13:6 14:4 31:6,15,23 totality 27:7
32:6,8 suggest 53:3 tell 49:15 54:14 32:10 35:6 traditional 18:6
33:3 54:10 58:12,17 36:17 39:3 18:7
37:21 suggesting 51:4 term 6:16 17:4 42:3,4,5 47:4 Transportation
suggestions 28:13 39:23 47:14,22,24,24 14:23 15:1
43:4,6 43:14 41:1,17 43:5,8 47:25 49:25 treat 33:19
44:20 suing 19:6 51:13 56:19 51:9 53:14 trial 14:11 31:12
48:19 supervised terminates 54:10,24,25 31:21,25 32:4
53:2 37:17,20 38:10 21:25 56:12 57:15 34:19 37:7
58:10,11 39:14 41:16,18 terms 3:18 27:16 59:21 46:5
29:4,6 supplies 47:15 28:5 55:8 thinks 6:24 24:7 54:17 56:15
45:2,25 supply 47:16 60:12 52:11 trying 19:5
suppose 17:20 that's 8:21 12:4 third 13:2 53:25 Tuesday 1:9
34:14,20 35:24 12:17 15:6 thought 9:18 turn 21:18 58:10
52:14 19:9 32:17 25:24 34:15,17 turns 22:12
45:15,20 54:7 theoretical 56:7 thrust 12:2 13:4 28:11,17 32:20
Supreme 1:1,12 41:23 44:21 time 3:17 4:18 U
14:9 38:11 42:25 56:19 8:24 14:15,19 underlying
surely 56:8 they're 9:8 24:8,10,12,15 understand 4:16
52:22 16:8 21:4 36:20 37:10 36:21 45:14
44:18 T 44:24 45:6 41:6,7 44:15 56:13 58:5
34:6 tacked 19:8 54:22,25 59:21 48:21 49:10,11 13:21
4:3 12:7 49:20 51:1 won 11:25 56:4 11:08 60:14 17:17 21:18,19
48:2,17 violate 45:24 word 43:2 12 21:23 39:24 57:13
57:23 violation 9:7 words 10:17 14 36:7,22 38:9 4
58:6 47:17 54:2 work 43:12 50:5 4 8:24 22:15
violence 54:20 worry 60:6 18 15:2 18:24
24:10 27:11 27:14 2 4:2 22:14 55 2:10
39:21 waited 12:15 x 1:2,7 50:10
35:22 Y 2010 1:9 56:22
21:22 21:2 31:18 29:15 30:16 29:23 30:2,11
52:6 wants 6:23 31:4 45:8 3 30:14
30:20 30th 4:23 11:22 8 50:10
32:21 32 24:20 8th 11:20 58:15
11:3 12:6 way 6:7 8:12,17
37:23 32(b)(1) 57:22 89 10:23
23:5,20 27:13
14:13 48:15 51:6,6 43:12 50:14 35 20:4 56:16 9
18:10 59:4 60:5 you've 38:8 3553 22:20 23:5
14:24
22:25 ways 34:7 56:16 27:5
3:21 4:19 5:8
29:15,22 week 48:6 3553(a) 56:22
30:9,10 went 29:6 3562(b) 57:12
31:7 weren't 13:8 3572(c) 43:19
11:5,6
51:19 we'll 49:5 57:12
11:11,15,18,22
1:4 3:4 12:24 14:18
24:16
13:4,7,8 34:18 40:9 1 39:21 57:11
26:3,11
14:1 41:23 363(a)(1) 41:24
29:15 26:22 27:10,16
44:13 what's 15:12 3663A(a)(1)
52:15 28:19,22 30:24
29:15 30:16 31:17,18 34:25
55:21 57:8 3664(a) 18:23
36:23,24 38:24
46:2,10
54:22
58:1
59:2
5:18
4:21 5:15
13:18
21:2
59:14
4:11
5:18
