IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
BRIDGET HARDT, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-448
RELIANCE STANDARD LIFE INSURANCE :
COMPANY. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, April 26, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JOHN R. ATES, ESQ., Alexandria, Virginia; on behalf of
Petitioner.
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioner.
NICHOLAS Q. ROSENKRANZ, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JOHN R. ATES, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States,
as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner 15
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
NICHOLAS Q. ROSENKRANZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN R. ATES, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear
argument next in Case 09-448, Hardt v. Reliance Standard
Life Insurance Company.
Mr. Ates.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN R. ATES
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ATES: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Fourth Circuit vacated an award of
attorney's fees to Petitioner Hardt even though the
district court found Respondent violated ERISA in bad
faith and required Respondent to redetermine benefits
within 30 days or face adverse judgment. And Ms. Hardt
then secured the full disability benefits after that
court-enforceable order.
Ms. Hardt is entitled to -- is eligible for
a fee award under section 502(g)(1) of ERISA by proper
application of this Court's established fee standards
under any test this Court has previously established.
But to be clear --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What do you define as --
assuming that we go back to our prior language and use --
in Ruckelshaus, "some success on the merits," what's the
"some success on the merits" that you claim your client
reached?
MR. ATES: In that instance, the "some
success on the merits" is the finding of the ERISA
violation in this instance.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, I believe that this
circuit said, yes, there are cases where we have so held,
but that's because there was a cause of action under the
complaint that -- that alleged a violation of the Act.
But here there wasn't. Here, there was a claim for
benefits only, and you didn't get benefits. That was
the circuit's reasoning. So tell me where they erred
and how we go back to defining "some success on the
merits" in light of that position by the circuit?
MR. ATES: They misread the complaint,
Justice Sotomayor. We are claiming a claim for
benefits. As part of that claim, we asked for equitable
relief for the ERISA violation. The heart of ERISA is
the full and fair review process in 1133 of the statute.
Because without a full and fair review by the plan
administrator, that fiduciary cannot get to the right
result. It violated that obligation here.
We asked for the benefits, but the district
court, instead of awarding the benefits, said in the
first -- in the second instance, here's your second bite
at the apple; get it right this time. That's success on
the merits under ERISA, because they must abide by their
fiduciary obligations, and they breached it here.
The relief the district court formulated in
essence was an equitable-type relief: Do it again. We
asked for that in the complaint. We asked for equitable
relief.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what do you think
our -- the meaning of our footnote, Chief Justice
Rehnquist's footnote in Ruckelshaus, who said a
procedural victory is not some success on the merits.
How do you differentiate what he meant by a --
some procedural victory is not enough?
MR. ATES: I think it foreshadowed the
Hanrahan-type case, and we are miles apart from
Hanrahan. Hanrahan, which Respondent is relying upon,
was the circuit court reversing the district court on a
pure civil procedure issue. Here, there is a -- a
right; it is a process right. So when the process right
is violated, your relief is going to necessarily be
process-driven.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It was the same in
Hanrahan. There was a right to a certain process in the
lower court, and the -- the person complaining achieved
reversal. It was sent back and said: Do it right. Give
this person the process that -- that he's entitled to.
MR. ATES: But, in Hanrahan, there was no
finding of a violation of law, Justice Scalia. Here we
have a violation of ERISA, a violation of a fiduciary
obligation by the plan administrator. The relief
accorded for that violation was a remand back to the
plan administrator to get it right.
That's the difference between our case and
Hanrahan. In Hanrahan, there was no finding of a
violation of law. No one was found to be a legal
wrongdoer. We have that here. The fiduciary breached
its obligation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you saying that in
Hanrahan there was no prod at all from the court, and
here there is?
MR. ATES: I'm sorry --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In Hanrahan, there was no
prod from the court; the court didn't say anything
that -- it was the filing of the complaint that led to
the action, wasn't it?
MR. ATES: Well, what happened was the
district court, I believe, granted a motion to dismiss or
a motion for judgment as of law at trial. The -- the
court of appeals reversed that. What we have here is a
prodding from a court, but moreover a finding of a
violation by a court. The court found Reliance violated
ERISA. That's the key distinction between here and
Hanrahan. And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose now, in response
to "Do it right," Reliance on a complete record and very
careful review finds that total disability was not
proved. Then there would be no fees, right?
MR. ATES: No. Under our position, the --
Ms. Hardt is eligible for fees and the district court
can take into account trust law principles which are
embodied in what we call this five-factor test to
determine whether to award fees. She's eligible for
fees based on the violation by Reliance in bad faith.
We have a legal wrongdoer here.
The amount of those fees, Justice Ginsburg,
may be determined in part by her degree of success.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, this district court
kept jurisdiction over the action. He more or less
waited to see how the story came out before he wrote the
plot. Suppose the district court said: All you came to
me for was an order for remand. I give you the order
for remand. Case ended. At that point, he doesn't know
how it's going to come out. At that point, can he --
can the district court award attorney's fees?
MR. ATES: Absolutely, the court at that
point, if he's closing the case out in particular and
entering judgment as to the violation --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that even if, when it
goes back to Reliance, Reliance finds that it's patently
frivolous, close to a fraud, she -- the employee still
gets the fee?
MR. ATES: The only way it's going back,
Justice Kennedy, is from a violation of law. So, in that
regard, she has succeeded on the merits by proving a
violation regardless of the outcome at the end of the
day.
Now, here certainly she got the benefits, so
we -- we meet even Buckhannon and beyond. But in the
case where the district court is sending it back, it
must be sending it back for a violation of law, save one
instance. The claimant comes forward and says: I have
additional evidence that I didn't -- I didn't submit
below. I've got an equitable ground to -- to convince
the court to, in essence, reopen the record. I want --
I want to send it back.
In that instance, fees should not be awarded
because it was the claimant's fault in not getting this
record -- this record evidence in.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, she prevailed
in some way to give her another chance to make that
argument.
MR. ATES: Again --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm just saying I
think you're giving up too much.
MR. ATES: Maybe I am, Mr. Chief Justice.
But my point is to try to distinguish Hanrahan, in the
sense that we have a judicial finding of a legal
violation here. What I was trying to articulate
earlier, perhaps inartfully, was that she -- she's
eligible for fees under the five-factor test, but in
that instance the district court is not likely to use
its discretion to grant fees in that instance. I was
not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what if you
get in Justice Kennedy's situation, where the court
doesn't know what's going to happen on remand? You
know, the objection is -- the administrator throws it
out, saying, you know, you filed the wrong form, so you
lose. And the district court says you can't throw it
out on that basis; under trust law, it doesn't matter.
And it goes back.
Now, the district court doesn't know what's
going to happen. Does she get fees or not?
MR. ATES: It -- it depends on what the
district court does with it. But she has to prove a
violation of ERISA for it to go back. And if she proves
that, she's eligible for fees. And the district court
in its discretion can take all these factors into
account.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So is the district
court -- is the district court supposed to wait until
the whole thing is over before deciding the fee
application?
MR. ATES: I think the better practice is
for the district court to hold the case over and
supervise the remand. But if the district court enters
judgment at that point, then -- then under Rule 54 or
the -- they have to come in and apply for fees within
14 days of that judgment. But this case does not give
this Court an opportunity specifically to give the
courts, district courts, guidance whether to keep these
cases open or not, much like the Social Security cases
that happened in the late '80s and early '90s.
But to get back to our main point, which is
this is not a prevailing party statute, that was the
fundamental error by the Fourth Circuit in imposing a
prerequisite to determining whether a claimant is
entitled to fees. Section 502(g)(1) is not a prevailing
party statute for three primary reasons: first, the
language and structure of the statute. The words
"prevailing party," a term of art that has been used for
hundreds of years, is not within section 502(g)(1), but
it is in other sections of ERISA.
Its statutory sibling, section 502(g)(2),
contains a judgment requirement. Another provision of
ERISA, 1451(e), uses the terms "prevailing party."
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How could somebody have
some success on the merits if they don't achieve a
judgment of some sort?
MR. ATES: This case -- in the -- in the
Bradley case, which was cited in Hanrahan, said you
have many final orders in a case, and if the court
determines an issue of -- a particular issue in a
case -- and here it's finding an ERISA violation --
and as relief for that they are issuing an order
requiring Reliance to act within 30 days,
let's say the case settles at that point.
That's enough for fees to issue should the parties not
be able to agree on fees as a part of the settlement.
It's the judicial act in finding the violation that
triggers -- triggers the success on the merits.
And this case was on the merits. As we
pointed out in our very yellow brief, the district
court --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But under your theory,
presumably no relief has to be granted?
MR. ATES: Relief does not have to be
granted. The district court --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But then what -- what's
the difference -- is it your theory that if the district
court -- for whatever reason, if this wasn't an ERISA
case where a remand -- or where the court said they did
violate, but I've now looked at the evidence that you're
proffering, the new evidence they did not consider,
and it's not enough for benefits; you don't get it. Is
your argument that you are entitled to fees because they
decided there was -- the court decided there was a
violation of ERISA?
MR. ATES: Yes, it is. My argument is you're
eligible for fees, and the amount of fees will be
taken into account in determining the degree in the
district court, taking these five factors into account,
taking into effect your position on the merits, the
defendant's position on the merits, and determining what
that fee award should be. But it should not operate as
a barrier to getting into an eligibility question.
So she's eligible for fees in that instance,
but what those fees should be is at the district court's
discretion.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Going back to
Justice Scalia's question, what's the difference between
Hanrahan, where there's a violation of the civil
procedure code which is an entitlement to process? Why
aren't you successful, if this is a non-ERISA situation,
merely for a finding that the district court acted
improperly?
MR. ATES: Because you have to look at the
party who is violating. Here it's the party who's
violating the law. It's a party to the suit who is
violating the law. That violation is found in Hanrahan.
It's a civil procedure. The district court didn't --
didn't do something right.
Here -- and that's not a violation of the --
of law. That's a -- that's a misapplication of a
civil -- of a rule of civil procedure. Here we have a
violation of law by a party. That's the fundamental
difference between us and Hanrahan.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask -- ask this
question? The question here is whether there was
eligibility for fees. Could the district judge in your
view say, yes, I think the plaintiff is eligible for
fees, but it was actually a very difficult legal issue,
and the defendant's position was entirely reasonable, so
I think as a matter of discretion I will not award any
fees?
MR. ATES: The district court can exercise
its discretion and not award fees. I think, however,
that the better result is when a violation of law is
proven, the plaintiff or in this instance a claimant or
beneficiary should be entitled to some amount of fees
because the purpose of the statute, explicitly stated in
the statute, is to protect beneficiaries and claimants
and have access to the Federal courts.
If every case is a close case and you're
not giving -- giving fees, then -- these are folks with
limited means. These are folks by definition cannot
work when they are disabled, and you are eating up their
benefit through attorney's fees. And that cannot be the
point of the statute when Congress enacted this. It is
to protect beneficiaries, to give appropriate -- give
appropriate relief and keep open access to the Federal
courts.
If I can get back to, again, why this is not
a prevailing party statute, the language and structure
clearly show that. The history and context show it as
well. And I'm not talking legislative history. I'm
talking about the fact that ERISA supplanted the Welfare
and Pension Plans Disclosure Act, which required a
judgment before fees could issue, but Congress chose to
remove that requirement when it originally enacted
ERISA. It does not have that judgment language and does
not have prevailing party language.
Moreover, this Court repeatedly has held
that trust law should inform the interpretation of
ERISA. Trust law, for hundreds of years, has taken into
account these principles that the district courts and
courts of appeals have relied on for at least 30 years
under ERISA to inform, guide, and limit district courts'
discretion in awarding fees.
I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Shah.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PRATIK A. SHAH,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. SHAH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The district court found that Respondent's
original decision denying benefits disregarded pertinent
medical evidence in violation of ERISA and found that
the decision was otherwise unsupported by substantial
evidence. Based on those findings, the district court
ordered Respondent to make a new benefits determination,
after which Respondent finally granted the benefits due.
Those facts established Petitioner's
eligibility for a fee award under ERISA section
502(g)(1), which authorizes a court to award reasonable
attorney's fees, quote, "in its discretion," end quote.
That discretion, as per ERISA more generally, is to be
exercised in accordance with well-established trust law
principles, and those principles quite clearly reject a
strict prevailing party standard.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me
whether you differ in your definition of "some success
on the merits" than your predecessor colleague? Do you
define it as in the manner he did, that it's any legal
judgment in the Petitioner's favor that another party
has done a wrongful act? I think -- I think I'm
summarizing his position accurately.
MR. SHAH: Yes, I -- I think we are in an
agreement, Your Honor, with -- with -- with Petitioner's
characterization. When there's a judicial order
finding a violation --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, that's different
than what he said.
MR. SHAH: Okay.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Yes, here
there was an order of remand. That's clear. And I can
understand the difference between an order, because
there are many decisions of the court that end up in
orders that are not final judgments. But there are
decisions, like this one, I think according to him, that
if the district court had said there was a violation of
ERISA and the parties then settled without a judicial
order reflecting that finding and/or requiring a remand,
I think according to him he would say this party was
entitled to fees.
MR. SHAH: I don't want to characterize his
view, but here's our view on -- on "some success on the
merits." If the order -- to be concrete about it, the
order in this case -- assuming this case, all that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, I didn't assume this
case.
MR. SHAH: Pardon?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No order, just a
finding.
MR. SHAH: So there's a finding of an ERISA
violation, period?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And then a settlement.
MR. SHAH: And then a settlement. Well,
Your Honor, I think it depends on which framework we're
operating under. I think if we're operating under
well-established trust law principles, that clearly
qualifies as enough success to justify a fee award. And
we can look at several of the trust cases cited in both
our brief and Petitioner's brief. In re Catell's Estate
is discussed in all the briefs. There the plaintiff
brought a claim to remove a trustee, and the basis for
the claim to remove the trustee was a contention that
the trustee wasn't complying with one of the terms of
the trust.
After he filed the suit -- and this was
before even any finding by the judge -- the trustee then
complied with that particular term of the trust. And
then what the court said was, well, because the trustee
complied with the underlying premise or the motivation
for your suit, I'm going to deny your claim to have the
trustee --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that seems like a
catalyst theory, and that was, at least in dicta,
rejected in -- in Ruckelshaus. So how do you deal with
that?
MR. SHAH: Well, it wasn't -- in the dictum
in Ruckelshaus; it was actually accepted, Your Honor, in
that -- in the footnote the Court -- in the dictum within
Ruckelshaus, the Court says quite plainly that Congress,
in departing from a strict prevailing party language
in Ruckelshaus, meant to embrace judicial -- relief that
wasn't encapsulated within a judicial order.
But we're far afield from Ruckelshaus here,
because we actually have a judicial order, and we're
far afield from the outer limits of the trust --
trust law cases which -- which, for example, In re
Catell's Estate, which I just mentioned -- and by no
means is In re Catell's Estate an outlier. The Third
Circuit's opinion in Dardovitch, which is also cited in
our brief, recounts In re Catell's Estate as falling
well within the history of trust law cases.
Petitioner's reply brief at page 11 cites
Grien v. Cavano. That's another case where a plaintiff
brought -- brought a claim that a union fund was not
complying with accounting and proper bookkeeping
procedures. After he filed the suit, they fell in line,
adopted the various procedures that plaintiff had
sought, and the court still said: Drawing upon trust
law principles, we're going to award fees.
Now, again, I don't think the court has --
JUSTICE SCALIA: As the Respondent points
out, the position you're taking is unusual for the
government. The government is usually arguing against
fees, because the fees are often assessed against the
government.
MR. SHAH: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So long as you know that
you're making your bed and you're going to have to lie
in it --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and you're essentially
saying that when there is simply a procedural victory,
which happens all the time, when -- when an agency is --
is reversed in its procedure even though the -- the --
the petitioner here doesn't get any concrete relief
until it goes back to the agency and may lose in the
agency ultimately, you're -- you're content to say
that fees are assessable in that situation, just by
reason of the procedural victory.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, a couple of
responses: First of all, ERISA is somewhat unique in
that ERISA -- first of all, this provision doesn't have
prevailing party language as -- unlike EAJA, for example.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I'm talking about other
prevailing -- I'm talking about other statutes that
don't say "prevailing party."
MR. SHAH: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure.
MR. SHAH: I think still this provision
is unique in that it's informed explicitly by trust
law principles, as this Court has held numerous --
in numerous decisions regarding other ERISA provisions.
And the trust law principles depart from the American
rule. All of those other statutes which you have in
mind, Justice Scalia, are premised on the background of
the American rule. The trust law departs from American
rule, and so when you interpret ERISA section 502(g)(1)
based upon the trust law principles, I think that
supports a different --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm -- I'm -- I'm not sure
it's reasonable to interpret an attorney's fee provision
as having anything to do with trust law.
MR. SHAH: Well, even --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's -- it's a requirement
of attorney's fees enacted by -- by the Federal
Congress, and I -- I find that very artificial.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, it's -- it's a
fee provision enacted within ERISA which explicitly
states as one of its purposes to protect beneficiaries
and to provide them access to courts. This is in the
legislative history.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I -- I can see now
why the red brief has a very substantial appendix with
statutes. Now, you say, oh, this is unique. Well, then
we may have many, many different kinds of statutes. This
does not provide for -- this is not a prevailing party
statute.
MR. SHAH: Correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But just in going through
the list of the statutes, there are many statutes that
are not prevailing party statutes. And it seems to me
that -- you say it's unique. Well, it's unique in the
sense it's in ERISA, but I -- I think it's very close to
many -- many of the statutes with the language there in
the red brief's appendix.
MR. SHAH: Right. And, Your Honor,
previously the government has made narrow arguments.
For example, there were arguments --
JUSTICE BREYER: Take the case, though --
just take the -- what is the government's position? The
ERISA plaintiff wants $5 million. They get denied
everything. The -- the court says: I noticed here
there was a 30-day deadline that you had, and he only
gave you 28 days, so I'm sending it back, but I'll tell
you your claim that there was enough evidence is absurd;
you're never going to win it. And then he goes back,
and he loses it. Okay? He has had a procedural
victory.
Does he get attorney's fees? Not -- not a
chance that he's going to win this claim, and, indeed, he
loses it. He doesn't get a penny. Does he get
attorney's fees, because on a technicality he won a new
hearing?
MR. SHAH: Under your hypothetical, Justice
Breyer, a district court would be within its
jurisdiction to deny attorney's fees. That doesn't --
JUSTICE BREYER: My question is --
MR. SHAH: He wouldn't --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- does the statute, in
the view of the government, permit attorney's fees in the
case I just mentioned?
MR. SHAH: Probably not in application. He
would be eligible, but a district court --
JUSTICE BREYER: Your answer is, yes --
MR. SHAH: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- it does permit?
MR. SHAH: Yes. But a district court
applying --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. You're just
saying it won't be a problem because the district court
judges are all reasonable, and I know they think that.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if -- what if
the success is preliminary? You know, the plaintiff
survives a motion to dismiss, the plaintiff survives a
motion for summary judgment, wins every procedural
issue, wins a privilege issue, gets discovery issues
resolved, and at the end of the day loses? The plaintiff
has had --
MR. SHAH: No, Your Honor --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why? He has had
some success.
MR. SHAH: No, Your Honor, because that
would be captured within Hanrahan, we think, and
that's -- and that's easily distinguishable because
those are errors -- even if some of those procedural
victories were overturned on appeal or procedural losses
were overturned on appeal, those are all errors within
the court system or victories within the procedures of
the court system, not a violation of -- on the merits of
the underlying claim, which is what we have here.
We have a finding of a violation of ERISA
and then relief ordered to --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But then, aren't you
treating the statute as though it did have a prevailing
party clause in it?
MR. SHAH: Pardon, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is not your construction
one that just treats the statute as though it required
the plaintiff to be a prevailing party?
MR. SHAH: Well -- well, Your Honor, no. I
think our -- our -- our argument is to interpret it in
light of trust law principles.
Now, the trust law cases -- there is
language in some of the trust laws cases that suggests
that fees -- fees could be awarded to unsuccessful
litigants or regardless of outcome. But I think if you
read those cases, on the facts of those cases they don't
go that far. But I think what they do embody is a much
broader notion of success than the strict prevailing
party jurisprudence that this Court has promulgated --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, under your -- under
your rule would it be error for the district court to
terminate its jurisdiction? It must keep jurisdiction
to see how the play comes out in the end?
MR. SHAH: No -- no, Your Honor, I don't
think it must keep jurisdiction. But certainly in a
case where it does retain --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but it certainly has
to in order to adopt the ameliorating factors that
you -- that you use in order to justify this rule. And
I -- I -- it's not clear to me that courts usually
retain jurisdiction in these cases.
MR. SHAH: May I respond, Your Honor? A
couple of responses, Justice Kennedy: First, if they
didn't retain jurisdiction -- and in the Seventh
Circuit, for example, that's one circuit which says that
these orders have to be final, and final judgment has to
be entered -- then we're exactly analogous to a
sentence 4 Social Security case.
And this Court has made it clear in a line
of decisions that upon entry of final judgment -- and
those are exactly analogous in the sense that what
happens is that the court finds that the decision below
committed some error in law, it vacates that decision,
and then sends it back to the Social Security
Administration for a new determination without
preordaining the result. Regardless of the result
there, at the time of the remand and entry of judgment,
that plaintiff is eligible for -- for fees.
We think that the same outcome would be
controlled here, even if the Court applied its strict
prevailing party jurisprudence.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Rosenkranz.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICHOLAS Q. ROSENKRANZ
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
No judge has ever decided the merits of
Petitioner's claim for benefits. Under this Court's
holding in Ruckelshaus, the Petitioner must demonstrate
some success on the merits, and under Rule 54 she must
specify the judgment entitling her to an award.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the footnote
that was mentioned in Ruckelshaus that said: "Congress
found it necessary to explicitly state that the term
'appropriate' extended to suits that forced defendants
to abandon illegal conduct" -- illegal conduct was found
here -- "although without a formal court order"?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor. Footnote
8 of Ruckelshaus addressed one sentence of legislative
history of a different statute, and only so far as the
Court pointed out that the sentence was of no use to
Sierra Club in that case. I don't think the footnote is
properly read to be a full-fledged endorsement of the
catalyst theory.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is not merely a
catalyst. In Buckhannon, the catalyst theory was
rejected. Here the court said: If I were to decide
right now -- the district court said: I am inclined to
rule for Hardt, but I'm going to give Reliance an
opportunity to respond.
So the court had evaluated the evidence at
that point as favoring Hardt. To that extent, it wasn't
a purely procedural ruling. It says: As things stand
now, Hardt should get fees; but I'm leaving the door
open. So it wasn't just a procedural decision. It was
an evaluation of the evidence up to that point, wasn't
it?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor, but it
would be an utterly unadministrable rule to attempt to
weigh the inclinations of district judges in their opinions.
This Court's precedents have made clear that we weigh
success on the merits by evaluating judicial judgments.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the judgment is, send
it back. That's what it says: Send it back. And the
reason for sending it back is this woman was undergoing
terrible pain, that the Social Security Administration
says she's completely disabled, that she's entitled in
the -- on the evidence shown. There's no substantial
evidence to the contrary. But you, the company, want to
take money from her instead of giving her the money.
Now, I've read the record. It doesn't
support anything contrary to what I've said. So now
you send it back. Now, what is that but a big victory
for the other side? Which then leaves the company to
say: They're right; pay them.
Now, if that isn't -- I mean, what words of
English -- if you're -- we're talking about partial success.
Partial success, or not total defeat. That is the
language from Ruckelshaus. Not "total success." You
still get it. Okay. What in the English language can
we read in a case or a statute that would say you
shouldn't reach that commonsense result? Now, of
course, I'm characterizing it a little bit, but it does
seem like a commonsense result.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, Petitioner in
this case, like all plaintiffs, arrived in court
requesting a judgment, a judgment awarding her benefits.
Indeed, she believed she was entitled to such a judgment
as a matter of law, and she moved for judgment as a
matter of law for summary judgment.
What the district court actually did was
deny that motion for summary judgment. Rather than give
her the judgment she sought, the district court employed
a particular procedural maneuver, which was to remand
the case -- quote, "remand the case" -- to her
litigation adversary to reconsider the question. Now --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: His point -- your
adversary's point -- is the court couldn't effect that
procedural move without taking step one in what was
requested. It had to find some sort of violation,
either to remand or to grant benefits, so that the
relief sought, by definition, needed a finding by the
court. And your adversary says the court found an ERISA
violation.
Now, the type of relief it grants is up to
its discretion. This is an equitable situation, and it
exercised its discretion by doing a remand. Why is that
view different than calling it a procedural step? Isn't
that a substantive win?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, this is a
purely interlocutory order. So this was not an end to
the case. This was not a decision on the merits. This
was a purely interlocutory order, on the road to a
decision on the merits, perhaps, but the district court
denied her motion for summary judgment, did not conclude
that she was entitled to benefits as a matter of law and,
instead, remanded the case for further proceedings. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, what is the
impact on your position of our decision last week in
Conkright v. Frommert? I know you haven't had a chance
to brief it, but I'm also sure had you a chance to read it.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, Conkright
emphasizes that these judgments are to be made in the
first instance and, in fact, in the second instance by
claims administrators, that that is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought
that it -- one thing it did emphasize, that in the
typical case, the likely relief is going to be sending
it back rather than making a judicial decision, which --
which seems to me, then, that -- and then presumably, in
most cases, the person would prevail before the plan
administrator.
So given Conkright, your position is going
to severely limit the circumstances under which
claimants are entitled to fees.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, it's -- you are
correct that in Conkright, the Court -- Court indicated
that in most cases the district court should remand
under circumstances like this. You are quite correct.
Under circumstances like this, then, there would be
fewer opportunities for district courts to award --
to award fees. And that's a correct result under
502(g)(1), which, as informed by --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even though the --
as in Conkright, the claimant's success can -- before
an agreement, can be quite dramatic. This was a very,
very significant victory for the claimant to get it sent
back under those circumstances.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, I'm not sure
this should be characterized as a victory. This is not
a procedural maneuver that the plaintiff sought. The
plaintiff asked for summary judgment, and her summary
judgment motion was denied. And, instead, the district
court chose to remand the case to her litigation
adversary. Surely, at that moment at least, that surely
could not have felt like a victory.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Future claimants will not
ask for summary judgment from the district court,
presumably, in light of Conkright. They will ask that
the case be remanded. So, in future cases, will they
have obtained a victory?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: I don't think that future
claimants will ask for a remand as their final form of
relief, Your Honor. This was -- the relief that one asks
for in one's complaint is the final judicial relief that
one wants. This is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we've -- we've
already told them they can't get that.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, a plaintiff
could get an -- could get the relief of benefits if a
claims administrator had acted severely improperly or in
very bad faith. A district court still has power to
issue an award on summary judgment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The claimant doesn't --
doesn't really claim that. The claimant just says this
was a wrong decision and they should do it correctly.
And the claimant knows that all he's going to get from
the district court is a remand.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: But the correct way to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So he would not ask for
money and, therefore, would be victorious, on your
analysis. If all he asked for was a remand, he got a
remand.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: No, Your Honor. A properly
framed complaint under ERISA should still be a claim for
benefits. The -- the remand that Conkright contemplates
is still an interlocutory remand, like the remand here.
One does not put in one's complaint a desire for
interlocutory relief, any more than one asks --
JUSTICE BREYER: If someone wants a remand,
it's a remand, but on limited grounds; that is, a
holding of the district court. The ERISA administrator
was -- it's an abuse of his discretion to refuse to give
this woman nothing. In my opinion, she's entitled at
least to $30,000, but whether it's 30 or 35, I don't
know. So I remand it to the ERISA administrator so he
can decide to act within -- within his discretion, give
her either 30, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
Now, in your view, attorney's fees -- all
the statute says is the court, in its discretion, may
allow a reasonable attorney's fee. Nothing more. Now,
what would stop an attorney's fee in that situation?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: If that's what you think.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, a remand order
under those circumstances might constitute success on
the merits because it resolves an issue in the case, which
was liability in the case. So that perhaps would constitute
success on the merits. This resolved no substantive
issue on the case. This remand order simply says: As a
procedural matter, go back and look at it again.
JUSTICE BREYER: You distinguish between him
saying you have to give her at least 30 and his
saying the evidence that supports giving her less than
30 is -- insufficient, is substantially -- is -- what's
the word? Yes, worthless.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor, this Court
has -- this Court has expressly distinguished between
judicial --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the line you draw?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor, the
difference between judicial pronouncements and judicial
relief is one that this Court has --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That -- that's
difficult. Let's assume that a claims administrator or a
plan administrator is not deciding the claim. The party
comes to court and says: Under ERISA, I have a right to a
decision within X number of days; force them, mandamus
them to give me a decision. The court says: Reasonable;
you have a right to one. And orders them to.
Under your theory, they've won nothing?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: No, Your Honor, in your
hypothetical the -- the remand order would presumably be
a final judgment, and it might well constitute success
on the merits.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you're -- you're --
wait a minute. Then we go back to a question that was
asked by one of my colleagues. If a plan participant
came in and said they didn't consider evidence they
should have; they didn't seek my treating physician's
documents, and here they are; they should consider them
now, and the court says you're right, enters a
remand order, and dismisses the case -- that's enough?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, I'm not sure
that's a properly formatted ERISA complaint. If the
gravamen of the complaint is "I want my benefits" then --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, what -- what's
the difference between the first example I gave, a
mandamus to issue a decision -- that's not a claim for
benefits, either; it's a claim for a decision. What's
the difference between that and the second hypothetical?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: If the -- if the gravamen
of the complaint is a complaint for benefits, then the
complaint should ask for benefits, and the judge should
resolve that case. A remand would always maintain
jurisdiction -- should always maintain jurisdiction over
the case, thus always be interlocutory and procedural.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that how it
works? Remands always retain jurisdiction? I would --
I would have thought the district judge would want the
thing off his or her docket, you know, for the
statistics, if anything. And --
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- and would say,
and maybe could say -- well, what if the judge says:
Look, I don't know if you're going to prevail or not
on remand. My decision actually doesn't help you much
one way or the other, but if you get benefits, then the
other side is liable for attorney's fees, and I assume
you'll be able to work out the amount. If you don't,
he's done. End of case. Sent back to the
administrator.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, on the research
that we have done, most district courts hold
jurisdiction on remands such as this, and we believe
that is the proper course. When the case -- the gravamen of
the case is a complaint for benefits, the district court
merely remands to the ERISA claims administrator, the
merits of the case simply have not been decided.
JUSTICE BREYER: That may be, but why can't
they do this? What would be wrong with this heretical
idea, that as long as the plaintiff wins something out
of the court, the district judge -- that group of people
we were talking about -- has discretion to decide
whether ultimately they got something significant of
what they wanted, and as long as that judgment helped
them get them something significantly of what they
wanted, attorney's fees are fine; and we leave it all up
to the district judge as long as the district judge
doesn't abuse the discretion that that standard gives
him?
What would -- I mean, would the Earth come
to an end? What would happen that would be so terrible
if we said something like that?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, I believe that
would be to embrace the catalyst theory that this Court
rejected in 2000 --
JUSTICE BREYER: It didn't say anything
against the catalyst theory. It said you have to
remember this is an American country, we follow the
American rule, and there has to be something special in
the situation. And what would be special in this
situation is that the judge has to decide that as a
result of the favorable ruling, the plaintiff really did
get something significantly of what she wanted.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, the Court was
careful in Ruckelshaus to say that a purely procedural
victory would not suffice. Now, purely procedural
victory may well -- may well result in success for a
plaintiff at some later stage; it could result in
out-of-court success. This Court has been crystal clear
that we do not look for success out of court; we don't
look for it in interlocutory orders --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rosenkranz, suppose
the complaint was: I asked for a turnover of certain
documents; they refused without reason. And the court
says: You're right; you're entitled to those
documents.
It's interlocutory; there is no decision;
but the only thing that the plaintiff asked for the
plaintiff got, that is entitlement to the documents.
The court said: You are entitled to the documents.
And then it goes back, and the documents are turned over
because the court has ordered that.
Under your theory, because there was no
determination of benefits, even that ruling which was a
total victory for the plaintiff doesn't open the door to
fees.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: On your hypothetical, Your
Honor, that would not be an interlocutory order. So if
a plaintiff arrives seeking only documents and the
district court awards her, her documents, that would be
the end of the case, and the district court would
properly relinquish jurisdiction, and we could evaluate,
compare the result that the district court gave -- gave
a plaintiff with what the plaintiff originally asked
for. But this is not such a case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So that would fall --
even if in the end of the -- at the end of the day no --
no award is made? No benefits are awarded?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, it might be
proper to frame a complaint under ERISA for a purely
procedural remedy like some documents. That is not the
main run of ERISA cases. So in the normal case, a
petitioner arrives -- a plaintiff arrives asking for
benefits. And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- but you say --
you called it purely procedural and you said yes, but
that's the only thing that she asked for. So she got it.
So she qualifies for fees. Even though you just
characterized it as purely procedural, it's a purely
procedural ruling, but it's all she asked for --
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- so she gets benefits.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: -- I'm not sure that
a properly framed ERISA complaint would be -- would
be for a purely procedural result. If one could frame
an ERISA claim like that, which I think is extremely --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, I'm not dealing
with something obscure. If the -- the plaintiff says, I
have asked for certain documents, they withheld those
documents with no good cause at all, and the court said:
You're right; turn over documents.
It's that hypothetical. It's just --
that's the situation. There is a final order: Turn over
the documents. But it's a procedural order, right?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But, nonetheless, benefits
would be -- nonetheless, fees would be available?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, our position is
that in this case the remand order was both purely
procedural and interlocutory. So it fails under both
those grounds. On your hypothetical, the -- the order
would be a final order, but presumably still purely
procedural, and so perhaps not success on the merits
even on that hypothetical.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're changing -- you're
changing the answer. The answer that you first gave
me was it's a discrete issue -- final judgment, yes,
qualifies for fees. Now you're saying no, no fees?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, it would
qualify in the sense that it would be a final judgment,
not an interlocutory order. Whether that's properly
characterized as a purely procedural victory or not, I'm
not sure. Most ERISA claims are not framed that way.
They are usually framed as claims for benefits, not for
purely procedural --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose the claim were:
They're just not processing my application. So, Court,
order them to process my application. Right; they're
not doing anything; we order then to go process the
application. End of case in the district court.
Fee entitlement?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Again, Your Honor, that
would perhaps be best characterized as a purely
procedural victory even though it's a final judgment and
even though it's what the plaintiff sought. Again, in
this case, this order was purely interlocutory, and so
it's a much easier case. This -- in this case, this was
a procedural step on the road to a final judgment. This
was not a final judgment at all and not at all what the
petitioner sought.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The government in response
to questions about the significance and the consequences
of its position said, oh, this is a unique statute.
ERISA -- it's is an ERISA statute.
Do you agree that if -- if we rule for you,
it would be applicable primarily to ERISA and it
wouldn't have an effect on these other statutes?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: No, Justice Kennedy, I
don't. The Court has oftentimes emphasized that
fee-shifting statutes ought to be read in parallel, that
we ought to have fewer rather than more fee-shifting
standards in the world. And so, presumably, the result
in this case would govern any number of fee-shifting
statutes of similar language.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the
parties -- to follow up on Justice Ginsburg's line of
questioning, what if the parties decide, look, this case
rises or falls on the discovery issue? If we have to go
through discovery, it's going to cost us a lot more than
to pay you. So we stipulate whatever the ruling is on
discovery will decide the issue.
In that case, can the party -- can the
claimant get fees?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: I'm sorry, Your Honor. In
this hypothetical, the district court grants the
discovery order, but the -- but still holds jurisdiction
over the case?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it grants the
discovery order, and as a result, a direct result of that
ruling, the plan pays benefits.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: No, Your Honor. I believe
that this Court has rejected the direct results theory
and has instructed us to look at the content of judicial
judgments, not at their ancillary effects on parties out
in the world.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what is the
difference between prevailing party and some success
on the merits for you? The only difference is whether
they won on one cause of action as opposed to four?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, in Ruckelshaus,
the Courts emphasized that omitting words like
"prevailing party" or "success" from a statute is
significant, but it's not revolutionary, that what it
accomplishes is a decrease in the quantum of success
required -- the degree, I believe was the Court's
language -- but not the type of success required. But
it was still --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So under Buckhannon, 51
percent only entitles you to fees. And under your view
of this statute, you have -- as long as you get
1 percent order, that's enough.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, the -- the Court
in Ruckelshaus was speaking of the interpretation of
"prevailing party" that -- that held sway in circuit
courts in the 1970s.
At that time, "prevailing party" had been read
quite narrowly to require substantially prevailing, and
the Court understood Congress to reject that standard in
adopting a statute that doesn't include language like
"prevailing party." Subsequently, this Court has
adopted a much more liberal understanding of the words
"prevailing party," so there may not be --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you -- you see no
difference today?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: There may still be a
difference, but it will be a smaller difference and a
difference only in quantity, certainly not a difference
in type. The result -- the success still has to be
success that you can find in a judgment of a court.
Your Honors, if I could -- Your Honors, as
a matter of policy, the plaintiffs have argued that this
will result in -- that -- I'm sorry. As a matter of
policy, the plaintiffs -- or the Petitioner's rule would
result in a second major litigation over attorney's
fees, and this Court has rejected any such rules. The
concern is that the fee-shifting inquiry ought to be
simple and easy to administer.
The ease of administrability of our rule is
that it turns on the contents of judicial judgments. If
the Petitioner wins in this case, the policy result will
merely be stingier plans. So these are not plans that
any private party is obliged to create, and this Court
has emphasized that the purpose of ERISA is to balance
the interests of beneficiaries, on the one hand, but also
the interest in the creation of these plans and the
generosity of these plans, on the other. And a fee award
under circumstances like this would result in far less
generous plans for -- for --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question?
You rely very heavy on Ruckelshaus, which of course was
a case in which the fees were sought to be imposed against
the government.
Is there a basis for distinguishing on a
sort of a sovereign immunity approach for saying that
maybe there should be a stricter standard when you're
taking money away from the sovereign than when you're
taking it away from private litigants?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, I don't think
so. The Solicitor General is here arguing that this
ought to be the rule, and it would presumably be the
same rule even in a statute that applied against the
government. Again, this Court has cautioned against a
proliferation of different fee-shifting standards. I
would think there would be a concern about having a
different standard applied to the government than to a
private party on -- on similar statutory text.
Certainly, no indication in this statutory text --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's a trust -- trust
law is at issue here, is the government's assertion.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, I agree with
you that it seems artificial in a way to apply those --
to apply -- to import those principles entirely. On the
other hand, this Court has emphasized that ERISA is
informed by trust principles. And under Sprague, the
Court emphasized that trust principles would very rarely
shift fees in a context like this. So to that extent, I
do believe that this provision should be informed by
this Court's holding on that point.
Just to re-emphasize, Your Honors, what
actually happened in the district court below: So the
Petitioners sought judgment as a matter of law for
benefits, and that motion was denied. Instead, she
received an interlocutory procedural order, a remand to
her adversary, a private party in litigation, to
consider the question again.
And, as this Court emphasized, the second
inquiry by the claims administrator would be reviewed
for abuse of discretion. It could easily have come out
the other way, as the district court itself
acknowledged.
JUSTICE BREYER: You also received -- she
also received a conditional judgment in her favor.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: The district court
specified that if Reliance did not comply with this
procedural --
JUSTICE BREYER: She said: Unless this
order goes into effect within 30 days, the judgment will
be entered for the plaintiff, for her -- for her.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor. That's
true, but I don't think that distinguishes this from --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, she got one judgment
in her favor. It was a conditional judgment. I mean,
if we're being technical, if we're going to just do
this totally on some kind of procedural theory of what's
a judgment, what's a judgment in your favor, and we just
don't want to look to the merits of it and see what
really happened, then why doesn't she win? Because she
got a judgment in her favor, okay? End of the matter.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, she didn't
actually get a judgment. She got a --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, let's read the
judgment. Let's see. It says -- it says judgment. It
says in a -- what is it called? I just saw it here.
My colleague had it here.
It says -- I think this it. It says "Conclusion"
-- it says -- and it's in the conclusion, and
it says what happens. And it says it denies, denies,
denies, denies. And then it says: "Reliance to act on
Ms. Hardt's application, adequately considering all the
evidence, within 30 days. Otherwise, judgment will be
issued in favor of Mrs. Hardt."
Now, that's in a kind of judgment, I guess.
It's in an order. So an order saying we'll issue a
judgment -- it sounds to me like you could say that's a
judgment in her favor. You don't have to, but you
could.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, I think that's
only -- the district court was only saying what is
implicit in most all procedural orders --
JUSTICE BREYER: No. Normally, a judge -- a
judge doesn't say: It is ordered that if you do not
act within 30 days, there will be a judgment entered in
flavor of the plaintiff. That's not a usual thing.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: But, Your Honor, if a party
ignores the procedural order of a district court, it
does so often on peril of default. So it --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm just saying, if we're
going to be formal and we're going to look to certain
words included in -- in certain papers, irrespective of
what really happened, don't we have those words in the
paper that's relevant here?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Again, Your Honor, the
district court did not decide the merits of this case.
The district court offered the possibility that it would
enter judgment if something happened in the future.
That thing did not happen in the future. There was
no judgment in her favor in this case. Again, the issue
was remanded to a private party to determine the issue.
The grant of benefits on remand certainly could not
constitute success on the merits.
That was not judicial action at all. That
was the action of a private party. Purely voluntary
action. Certainly, couldn't constitute a judgment under
Rule 54. And then when the case arrived back at the
district court, the district court did the only thing
that it was left to do, which was to dismiss the case.
And those are the actual actions the
district court took: denying the motion for summary
judgment and dismissing the case. And under this
Court's precedents, where we look for success is in those
judgments. Those judgments show us no success on the
merits for Ms. Hardt.
If there are no further questions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Ates, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN R. ATES
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ATES: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I have two points on rebuttal: Under their
we must have a final judgment on the benefits on her
claim for -- final judgment on the merits on her claim
for benefits, that is absolutely foreclosed by this
Court's decision in Schaefer, where a Social Security
claimant comes forward, shows a violation by the
Secretary; it's remanded back to the Secretary; the case
is closed at that point. There was no decision on the
merits for the benefits, and yet this Court found that
was prevailing party.
Here, we don't need prevailing party, but
moreover, even accepting their theory, it leads to absurd
results. There is a provision in ERISA, 1132(c),
that gives a claimant the right to seek documents. And
yet, they are saying if the claimant is wholly
successful to get the plan document from which certain
claims you don't even know if you have until you read
those plans, they would say it's a purely procedural
victory; you cannot get attorney's fees. The whole
point of that provision was to require the fiduciary to
give the document over so people can understand their
rights.
Moreover, their final judgment on the merits
for benefits rule leads to perverse incentives under
ERISA. The plan administrator is incented to deny the
first time around, challenge it all the way through the
courts, on remand maybe, if they get a conditional
judgment, as here, that says if you don't act within
30 days I'm giving you that judgment, they then grant
the benefits and the court gets rid of the case, they
have succeeded in eliminating the right
of claimants to get to court to pursue their rights,
because of the cost of litigation.
But moreover, here we have a judgment. To
be clear, that is not our argument. We had a
conditional judgment by the district court sending it
back: If you do not act in accordance with law within
30 days, I will enter judgment on this case.
We have that, but at the end of the day,
it was not a dismissal. They overlooked district court
docket 57. There was a judgment entered in Ms. Hardt's favor
against Reliance in the amount of attorney's fees. The
original order merges into that judgment. We have a
final judgment here as well. Although we don't need it
under section 502(g)(1), we have it here.
This Court should not require a judgment
before fees can be awarded. The whole -- and it
certainly shouldn't adopt a purely procedural rule out
of thin air that's not in the statute. This is a
procedural statute. The only way claimants can
effectuate their right is ensuring the procedure is
followed. That is what we have here.
They did not follow proper procedure. They
abused their discretion. They breached a fiduciary
obligation to the claimant. In these circumstances,
under the clear language and clear structure of this
statute, this claimant is entitled to fees.
The only -- may I finish?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
MR. ATES: The only issue that Reliance
contested was whether she was a prevailing party. Knock
that leg of the stool, their case fails.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
52:25 33:13,17 34:21 15:7 assertion 46:8 12:25 14:18
47:1 51:8 1:15 assessed 19:21 26:8 28:10,10
30:21 22:7 assume 17:12 31:19 34:7
47:2 52:6 applicable 42:5 assuming 3:24 38:19 49:18
29:24 32:1 applied 26:14 7:8,25 8:7 9:2 32:18
adversary's apply 10:13 11:10 12:2,14 barrier 12:21
12:16,17 afield 18:25 19:2 approach 45:18 attempt 28:5 basis 9:20 18:3
agency 20:5,8,9 appropriate attorney's 3:12 45:17
46:9 April 1:10 16:3 21:8,12 behalf 1:16,20
alleged 4:9 2:2,5,9,12 3:4 51:2,25 36:21 37:16
16:13 ameliorating 12:14 15:13 available 40:15 believed 29:9
48:7,21 25:17 24:24 26:19 award 3:11,19 beneficiaries
American 20:25 50:5 51:18 7:12,24 12:20 14:7,15 21:16
43:13 amicus 1:20 2:8 arrived 29:7 19:16 27:2 benefit 14:13
15:14 49:18 31:12,13 32:19 benefits 3:14,16
and/or 17:5 5:6,6 31:23 a.m 1:14 3:2 36:14,23 38:22
11:11,12,14,17 characterizati... 32:23 42:22 35:16,17,24,24
41:8 11:22 12:7 16:17 50:14,22,23 35:25 36:23
46:21 14:9,9 17:11 characterize 52:13,15 38:11 39:13
50:10,12 17:11,13 19:10 17:8 claimants 14:7 40:2
51:7,13 22:11 23:8 characterized 31:6 32:3,9 complete 7:5
39:4,8,15 23:20 24:3 47:1 50:25 concern 44:25
52:12 42:16,21 43:1 36:4,10 42:14 25:19 26:3 conclusion 48:4
49:11,18,20,23 52:17,22 51:18 52:14,14 concrete 17:10
28:9 50:15 51:13,21 chose 14:24 clearly 14:20 20:7
34:8 52:20,23,24 31:25 16:6 17:23 conditional 47:6
37:1,19 cases 4:7 10:17 circuit 3:11 4:7 client 4:1 47:16 51:10,19
10:17 17:25 4:14 5:17 close 8:5 14:9 conduct 27:7,7
49:1 19:3,8 25:1,2,5 10:21 25:24,24 22:5 Congress 14:14
19:7,9 catalyst 18:15 19:6 Club 27:13 44:7
30:17 27:15,17,17 circumstances code 13:3 Conkright 30:16
43:13 17:25 19:6 37:13 47:2 42:1
27:17 Cavano 19:10 civil 5:18 13:2 25:12 34:23 35:10,12 46:24
certain 5:23 13:11,15,15 50:14 considering 48:8
40:7 claim 4:1,10,16 committed 26:7 constitute 34:2,4
52:6 34:22 35:20,21 compare 39:6 contemplates
8:1,14 40:25 31:18 32:20,21 32:11 33:6,9 contents 45:3
11:10
34:25 35:13 decide 27:18 depends 9:24 52:12
38:2,7,8,12,18 42:16,20 49:7 desire 33:9 dismiss 6:22
44:1,7,9,18,24deciding 10:7 determine 7:12 dismissing 49:23
45:6 46:1,12 34:22 49:12 disregarded
30:14 49:19,19,22 30:15,25 32:22 determining 34:8
52:22 50:8,17 51:13 34:24,25 35:20 10:22 12:16,19 distinguishable
courts 10:16,16 decisions 16:25 differ 16:9 34:14
45:14 15:8 21:17 26:4 12:5 13:1,17 47:14
36:20 43:15 default 48:25 35:19,22 43:11 45:17
5:4,17,17 44:4 51:10 defeat 28:24 43:12 44:13,15 district 3:13
6:14,18 court's 3:20 defendants 27:6 44:15,16,16 4:23 5:4,17
12:23 26:24 defendant's different 16:19 6:22 7:9,17,20
28:7 43:19 12:19 13:23 21:6,22 27:11 7:24 8:14 9:11
8:14 46:17 49:24 define 3:23 30:4 46:2,4 9:19,22,25
9:11,15 50:13 16:11 differentiate 10:2,5,6,10,11
court-enforce...defining 4:13 5:12 10:16 11:23
3:17 definition 14:11 difficult 13:22 12:3,5,17,23
11:12,24 create 45:6 16:9 29:23 34:21 13:5,11,20
creation 45:9 degree 7:16 direct 43:3,6 14:1 15:6,8,18
14:1 crystal 38:7 12:16 43:19 disability 3:16 15:22 17:3
curiae 1:20 2:8 demonstrate 7:6 23:2,10,14,17
17:3 15:14 26:25 disabled 14:12 25:10 27:19
denied 22:13 28:13 28:6 29:12,14
20:23 D 30:11 31:24 Disclosure 14:23 30:10 31:9,12
23:2,10 D 3:1 46:21 discovery 23:24 31:24 32:4,18
24:11 Dardovitch 19:6 denies 48:6,6,7,7 42:17,18,20,25 32:24 33:13
25:8,10 day 8:11 23:25 deny 18:12 23:3 43:3 36:6,20,23
39:10 51:22 29:13 51:8 discrete 41:1 37:4,10,10
days 3:15 10:14 denying 15:19 discretion 9:12 39:3,4,6 41:14
29:7,12 11:16 22:16 49:22 10:3 12:24 42:24 46:19
34:24 47:11 depart 20:25 13:24 14:2 47:3,7 48:17
31:8,8,9 48:9,21 51:12 departing 18:22 15:9 16:3,4 48:24 49:7,8
32:4,18 51:21 Department 30:2,3 33:14 49:19,19,22
51:14 5:6 8:18 30:2 25:24 35:19 9:23 10:2,13
embody 25:6 5:5 exercised 16:5 12:11,15,15,22
37:17 4:4,18,18 5:2 explicitly 14:6 13:25 14:2,5
38:12,14 emphasized 11:3,6,14 12:6 27:5 15:9 16:3 17:7
42:8 43:15 12:13 14:22 expressly 34:14 19:16,21,21
40:7 45:7 46:12,14 15:1,5,8,20 extended 27:6 20:10 21:12
46:25 16:1,4 17:4,17 extent 27:23 22:21,24 23:3
emphasizes 20:13,14,24 46:15 23:7 25:3,3
14:25 21:12,15 35:16 36:24 fact 14:22 30:20 40:15 41:2,2
42:6 10:23 12:11 evaluated 27:22 favorable 37:25 25:25,25 26:4
14:5 17:7 evaluating 28:8 favoring 27:23 32:9,11 35:5
35:21 52:15 15:22 22:17 10:7 12:20 52:2
16:1 38:17 41:15 28:15 34:10 21:8,15 33:22 find 21:13 29:21
9:10 10:2 entitling 27:2 exactly 26:1,5 45:10 finding 4:4 6:3,9
13:21 entry 26:4,11 example 19:3 fees 3:12 7:7,9 6:25 9:7 11:14
26:12 equitable 4:17 20:15 22:10 7:12,13,15,24 11:20 13:5
17:5,16 framework 42:17 5:15 41:16 42:23
18:8 17:21 goes 8:4 9:21 happen 9:16,23 43:5,14 44:1
29:23 fraud 8:5 20:8 22:18 37:14 49:10 45:22 46:9
full 3:16 4:19,20 8:7 9:16,23 47:21 49:4,9 Honors 44:19,19
25:22 fundamental 30:24 31:4 3:15,18 7:9 hypothetical
35:19 10:21 13:16 32:23 36:12 27:20,23,25 23:1 35:4,22
51:9 further 30:13 42:18 47:17 48:10 50:1 38:25 40:10,19
49:9,10 govern 42:12 hear 3:3 I
52:11 General 1:19 41:25 45:16 held 4:7 15:3 immunity 45:18
27:3,9 generosity 45:10 22:12 46:8 helped 37:7 import 46:11
generous 45:12 grant 9:12 29:22 heretical 37:2 imposed 45:15
27:3,16 38:10 42:24 43:2 27:11 incented 51:8
give 5:25 7:21 40:19 17:21 18:19 included 49:3
13:10 14:15,15 27:20 guess 48:11 22:8 24:2,5,19 indication 46:6
27:5 29:13 33:14,18 guidance 10:16 24:23 25:13,21 inform 15:4,8
29:24 34:9,25 51:4 guide 15:8 27:9 28:4 29:6 informed 20:22
given 31:4 30:6,18 31:7 31:14 46:13,16
giving 9:4 14:10 Hanrahan 5:16 34:13,17 35:3 instance 4:3,5
34:10 51:12 6:14,17 7:3 9:6 37:16 38:2 9:11,12 12:22
41:7,8 10:1 25:6 34:7 13:17 24:6 40:13,16 41:3 instructed 43:7
41:13 Hanrahan-type insufficient
14:24 15:1 12:25 13:1,18 Knock 52:19 liable 36:15
25:25 26:4,11 16:19,22 17:12 9:17,18,22 lie 19:25
33:8,10 31:23,24 32:4 21:7,11,19 knows 32:23 limit 15:8 31:5
38:9,15 32:19 35:5 22:1,11 23:1,4 limited 14:11
40:18 37:7 41:1,4,18 23:6,11,13,16 L 33:12
46:22 41:22,23 44:18 23:20 24:3,16 language 3:24 limits 19:2
47:15,16,19,19 25:22 26:17,21 15:1,2 18:22 34:16 42:15
44:2 48:1,9,11,13 29:18 30:14,22 25:2 28:25 litigants 25:4
49:11,17,23 32:20 33:1,11 43:20 44:8 litigation 29:17
13:22 51:11,12,17,19 34:20 35:7,18 late 10:18 46:23 51:16
23:24,24 51:21,24 52:1 36:4,10 37:1 Laughter 20:2 little 29:4
34:3,6 52:2,4 37:19 38:10 23:19 36:9 long 19:24 37:3
41:1 judgments 17:1 39:9,18,25 law 6:3,10,23 37:7,10 43:24
46:8 28:8 30:19 40:5,14,23,24 7:10 8:8,15 look 13:7 17:25
49:11,12 43:8 45:3 41:10,25 42:7 9:20 13:9,10 34:7 36:12
49:25,25 42:14,15 43:2 13:14,16 14:3 38:8,9 42:16
41:19 30:25 32:11 50:3,7 52:17 25:1 26:7 loses 22:19,23
jurisdiction 7:18 leads 50:20 51:7 lower 5:24
25:11,11 K leave 37:9
3:7 50:5 39:5 42:25 Kennedy 7:17 led 6:19 39:15
35:25 25:8 26:15 22:1 25:9,16 leg 52:20 major 44:23
37:4 Justice 1:19 3:3 25:22 41:25 legal 6:10 7:14 making 19:25
3:9,23 4:6,16 42:7 9:7 13:22 30:25
5:8,9,22 6:3,13 Kennedy's 9:15 16:11 mandamus
8:3,8,24 9:3,5 key 7:2 21:18 27:10 maneuver 29:15
8:2 10:12 11:7,25 12:4 48:11 47:25 48:1 manner 16:11
11:5,9 kinds 21:22 liability 34:4 matter 1:12 9:20
34:7 motivation open 10:17 outer 19:2 people 37:4 51:4
46:20 18:11 14:16 28:1 outlier 19:5 percent 43:23
52:25 move 29:20 38:23 out-of-court 43:25
47:16 operating 17:22 overlooked period 17:18
narrow 22:9 33:15 24:10 31:2
necessarily 5:20 opportunities P perverse 51:7
27:4 never 22:18 opposed 43:13 paper 49:5 20:7 26:25
36:24 22:24 26:9 3:7 15:13 parallel 42:9 41:24 45:4
NICHOLAS 26:19 Pardon 17:14 50:6
5:2,11 non-ERISA 16:17,23,24 11:19 Petitioner's
11:8,21,22 13:4 17:5,10,11,15 partial 28:23,24 15:25 16:12,16
16:10 normal 39:15 18:24 19:1 participant 35:9 18:1 19:9
24:12 Normally 48:19 25:17,18 27:8 particular 8:1 26:24 44:22
27:1 noticed 22:14 30:7,9 34:1,6 11:13 18:9 physician's
30:8,10 notion 25:7 35:4,14 39:1 29:15 35:11
35:6 number 34:24 40:11,12,17,19 parties 11:18 plainly 18:21
40:21 42:12 40:20 41:5,12 17:4 42:15,16 plaintiff 13:21
47:20 numerous 20:23 41:13,20 42:25 43:8 14:4 18:2
50:1 20:24 43:3,25 46:22 party 10:20,24 19:10,14 22:13
51:6 47:11 48:12,12 11:1,6 13:8,8,9 23:21,22,25
obliged 45:6 35:1 38:9 34:22 42:21 47:12 48:22
45:20 oh 21:21 42:2 39:7 50:19 52:19 35:9 43:4
29:13 20:19 22:19 44:25 45:24 pay 28:21 42:19 plans 14:23 45:5
31:24 29:1 47:22 outcome 8:10 pays 43:4 45:5,9,10,12
49:22 omitting 43:15 25:4 26:13 penny 22:23 51:1
26:22 prevailing 10:20 proceedings purpose 14:6 33:22 34:25
10:23 11:1,6 30:13 45:7 reasoning 4:12
9:6 10:12 20:15,17,18 13:3 41:12,13 put 33:9 50:5,9
11:17 21:23 22:3 processing p.m 52:24 received 46:22
27:23 24:17,22 25:7 41:11 47:5,6
29:18,19 26:15 43:11,16 process-driven Q reconsider
50:16 44:3,5,6,9,11 5:21 qualifies 17:24 29:17
50:18,19 52:19 prod 6:14,18 39:21 41:2 record 7:5 8:19
22:9 proffering 12:9 quantity 44:16 recounts 19:7
primary 10:24 46:2 question 12:21 redetermine
15:6 16:6,6 25:8 23:4 29:17 reflecting 17:5
13:23 20:23,25 21:5 34:18 46:24 refused 38:12
19:19 24:25 46:11,13 proper 3:19 questioning regard 8:9
30:15 46:14 19:12 36:22 42:16 regarding 20:24
40:16 prior 3:24 39:13 52:11 questions 42:1 regardless 8:10
private 45:6,21 properly 27:14 50:2 25:4 26:10
15:13 problem 23:17 prove 9:25 27:18 37:18
5:13 20:4,11 proven 14:4 R 1:16 2:3,13 relevant 49:5
24:8,9 27:24 provide 21:17 rarely 46:14 7:1,5,13 8:4,4
30:4 31:22 proving 8:9 reached 4:2 47:8 48:7
40:12,18,21 50:21 51:3 44:5 47:25 5:7,20 6:5
46:22 47:9,18 pure 5:18 really 32:21 14:16 18:23
31:1 32:5 52:6,8 30:7,9 38:3,4 49:4 29:23 30:1,24
40:20 procedure 5:18 39:13,19,22,22 reason 12:6 32:10,10,11,16
45:24 13:3,11,15 40:3,17,20 20:11 28:11 33:10 34:19
respond 25:21 51:14 52:9 rules 44:24 50:13
9:16 1:23 2:11 3:13 road 30:9 41:22 39:23 42:19 47:20 48:1
12:7 3:14 5:16 ROBERTS 3:3 43:4 seek 35:11 50:22
17:5 15:23,24 19:18 8:24 9:3,14 run 39:15 seeking 39:2
29:15,16 26:20 10:5 15:11 send 8:20 28:9
30:3 Respondent's 23:20 24:3 S 28:10,19
32:9 15:18 26:17 30:14,22 S 2:1 3:1 sending 8:14,15
33:3,4,7 response 7:4 31:15 36:4,10 save 8:15 22:16 28:11
41:25 42:14 43:2 saw 48:2 30:24 51:19
34:1,6 responses 20:13 50:3 52:17,22 saying 6:13 9:3 sends 26:8
36:1 25:22 Rosenkranz 9:18 20:4 sense 9:7 22:5
40:17 result 4:22 14:3 1:22 2:10 23:17 34:9,10 26:5 41:4
49:13 26:10,10 29:3 26:18,19,21 41:2 45:18 sent 5:25 31:18
29:5 31:13 27:9 28:4 29:6 48:12,17 49:1 36:17
49:12 39:6 40:3 31:20 32:8,15 says 8:16 9:19 27:10,12
42:11 43:3,3 32:25 33:5,24 18:21 22:14 settled 17:4
45:4,11 35:3,15,23 28:10,13 29:24 17:19,20
25:23 36:5 40:13,16 41:3 38:13 40:6 32:17
52:4 reviewed 47:1 Ruckelshaus 32:13,20 33:1 21:10,14,25
24:21 43:17 18:16,19,21,23 Scalia's 13:1 23:12,14 24:2
re-emphasize 18:25 26:25 Schaefer 50:13 24:5,19,23
14:25 rid 51:13 38:3 43:14 30:20 35:22 she's 9:9 10:2
right 4:21 5:1,19 44:2 45:14 44:23 46:25 28:13,13
6:7 7:5,7 13:12 21:1,3,4 25:10 50:15 show 14:20,20
specified 47:8 structure 10:25 supporting 1:21 27:15,17 35:2
37:6 Sprague 46:13 submit 8:17 supports 21:6 43:6 47:18
stage 38:6 submitted 52:23 34:10 50:20
38:1 standard 1:6 3:4 Subsequently 38:10 41:10 16:17 17:17
44:7 45:19 substantial Supreme 1:1,13 they're 41:12
42:11 46:2 substantially 35:15 40:1 thing 10:7 30:23
20:10 stated 14:6 substantive 30:5 surely 32:1,1 39:20 48:22
33:23 states 1:1,13,20 34:5 survives 23:22 49:10,19
40:11 2:7 15:14 succeeded 8:9 23:22 things 27:24
28:12 statute 4:19 4:4,13 5:1,11 14:2 16:13,13
10:20,24,25 7:16 11:8,21 T 16:15 17:2,6
21:24 23:6 23:21 24:4 take 7:10 10:3 20:21 21:5
43:24 44:8 35:5 38:5,7,8 20:16,17 28:23 27:13 32:8
52:15 43:18,20 44:17 technical 47:17 45:22 46:3
5:8 11:7 21:1,21,22 49:25 22:24 Third 19:5
12:4,25 22:2,2,3,6 42:6 successful 13:4 tell 4:12 16:8 thought 30:22
42:9,13 50:24 22:16 36:6
statutory 11:4 suffice 38:4 term 11:1 18:9 three 10:24
29:18 46:5,6 suggests 25:2 27:5 throw 9:19
35:7,18 step 29:20 30:4 suit 13:9 18:7,12 terminate 25:11 throws 9:17
44:12 41:22 19:13 terms 11:6 18:5 time 5:1 15:10
31:22 13:18 24:16,20 summarizing 37:14 44:5 51:9
45:15 45:13 16:14 test 3:21 7:11 today 44:13
stingier 45:5 summary 23:23 9:10 told 32:14
stop 33:23 32:19 49:22 26:16,17 50:3 totally 47:18
unsuccessful voluntary 49:16 43:13 11:05 1:14 3:2
unusual 19:19 waited 7:19 44:10 49:3,4 14 10:14
16:5 uses 11:6 35:17 36:6 works 36:5 1970s 44:4
18:6 usual 48:22 47:20 world 42:11
19:2,3,8 usually 19:20 wanted 37:7,9 43:9 2
20:22,25 25:19 41:8 38:1 worthless 34:12 2 33:19
24:25 utterly 28:5 wants 22:13 wouldn't 42:6 2000 37:18
46:7,7 32:12 33:11 wouldn't 23:5 2010 1:10
V Washington 1:9 wrong 9:18 26 1:10 2:11
30:16 wasn't 4:10 6:20 wrongdoer 6:11
31:18,21 week 30:15 Y 30-day 22:15
32:2,7 38:4,5 weigh 28:6,7 years 11:2 15:5 35 33:16
well-established yellow 11:23
33:20 43:23 we'll 3:3 48:12 12:14 14:9
22:18 5 33:19
violated 3:13 18:25 19:1,16
28:23 50 2:14
38:13,13 502(g)(1) 3:19
violating 13:8,9 47:17,17 49:1
10:23 11:2
45:19,20 16:2 21:4
24:13 violation 4:5,9 what's 9:22
52:3
51:4 6:10 7:1,13 8:2 wholly 50:23
10:1 11:14,20 win 22:18,22
1:5 3:4
22:4,4 17:3,18 24:12 withheld 40:7 1 8 27:10
24:14 29:21,25 woman 28:11 1 33:19 43:25 80s 10:18
10:18
