IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
VINCENT E. STAUB, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-400
PROCTOR HOSPITAL :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 2, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:01 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
ERIC SCHNAPPER, ESQ., Seattle, Washington; on behalf of
Petitioner.
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioner.
ROY G. DAVIS, ESQ., Peoria, Illinois; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ERIC SCHNAPPER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting Petitioner 15
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ROY G. DAVIS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ERIC SCHNAPPER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 47
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:01 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this afternoon in Case 09-400, Staub v. Proctor
Hospital.
Mr. Schnapper.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC SCHNAPPER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SCHNAPPER: Thank you.
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
The dismissal of an employee is often the
result of the interrelated actions and decisions of
several officials. Whether an employer is legally
responsible for any particular official and his or her
actions and decisions turns on agency law. Congress
legislates against a background of agency law and is
presumed to have intended agency principles to govern
that kind of question. Agency law, not the Eleventh
Circuit's "cat's paw" doctrine, is the controlling
standard here.
There are two principal agency doctrines on
which liability can be based.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, before we jump to
agency law, shouldn't we take a look at the language of
the statute?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: And the statute says that a
prima facie case is made out if it is shown that
military service, anti-military animus, was a motivating
factor in the employer's action.
The employer's action here was discharge,
right?
MR. SCHNAPPER: That's correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: And the word "motivate"
means to provide someone with a motive to do something,
right?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE ALITO: And the person who did
something here was the person who discharged, discharged
Mr. Staub, right?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Well, that's not the -
JUSTICE ALITO: So why doesn't it follow
that the motivation that's relevant under the statute is
the motivation of the person who -- who performs the
action that is challenged?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Well, there's a -- there are
a series of actions and decisions that yield this
result. The reference in the statute is to the actions
of the employer, not to any particular official. And
so -
JUSTICE ALITO: No, but the -- what is -
what is made illegal are certain employer actions,
right? Not everything that's done, not -- just writing
up a bad report for a biased reason is not actionable
under this statute; isn't that correct?
MR. SCHNAPPER: That's correct. But a
decision to -- the decision to dismiss an official is -
can be, and is here, the result, the cumulative result,
of a series of decisions.
It's not unlike what occurs in -- in the
criminal justice system. Only a sentencing judge can
send a defendant to prison, but that decision actually
is a result of a series of other decisions, all of which
are government action. We think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but -- but you say
that those decisions that contribute have to be
decisions by supervisory personnel. If your theory is
correct, I don't know why that is so. I don't know why
a co-employee who has a hostile motivation and makes a
report to the supervisor who ultimately dismisses the
individual, why that -- that wouldn't qualify as well.
MR. SCHNAPPER: Well, our standard is not
whether it's a supervisor, but whether it's an official
for whom the employer is liable under agency law. That
would not be every supervisor. If a -- if a supervisor
unrelated to this particular department put a false
charge in a -- a suggestion box, that wouldn't be any
different.
Ordinarily, a coworker wouldn't qualify
under agency principles as an agent of the employer when
engaging in that conduct. You have to look at the
specific conduct and apply the traditional agency
standards. They are laid out, for example, in the
Court's decision in Ellerth, which refers to the two
branches of agency law: scope of employment, and action
which is aided in, where the actor was aided in the
conduct by his or her official position.
And I think those principles would not
ordinarily apply to a coworker, but they would also not
apply invariably to a supervisor. This isn't -- we're
not advocating the supervisor versus non-supervisor
distinction in Ellerth, but -- but a return to just the
traditional agency doctrines. And we think those
doctrines delineate who is the employer for the purpose
of the statute, which bans action by the employer.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The -- the employer would
be liable for these lower supervisory employees here
why? Did they have authority to discharge?
MR. SCHNAPPER: No, they had other
authorities. They had -- well, there are two -- two
doctrines.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do they stand in
different shoes from a co-employee who also contributes
to the ultimate decision to fire?
MR. SCHNAPPER: But it's -- it's the core
responsibility of -- in terms of scope of employment,
it's the core responsibility of a supervisor of a
particular individual to be monitoring his or her
behavior, reporting on it, perhaps initiating
disciplinary matters -- measures.
That wouldn't be true of all supervisors.
It's only true of Mr. Staub's supervisors. So -- what
-- the kind of thing they did was the kind of work that
they were employed to engage in, and that distinguishes
them from, say, another supervisor who might slip a note
into a suggestion box.
Second, the other branch, major branch, of
agency law is that an employer is liable for actions of
individuals when their conduct -- when they are aided in
their conduct by their official position, which would
not typically be true of a fellow worker. But that
could be true here.
For example, Mulally set much of this in
motion when, on the plaintiff's version of the facts,
she issued the January 27th corrective order. Everyone
agrees she wrote it. She signed it. She was aided in
doing that by her position as a supervisor. A coworker
couldn't do that. And indeed, somebody else's
supervisor couldn't have done that. So -
JUSTICE ALITO: Could I just ask where -
could I ask where your argument leads? Let's say that
an employer calls in an employee and says: Now, we have
to decide who to lay off, and we've looked at your
record over the last 10 years, and here it is, all the
evaluations you've gotten over the past 10 years, and
based on all of that, we -- we've decided that you're
going to be the person to be laid off.
Now, if it turns out that one of those
evaluations was rendered by someone who had an
anti-military bias, would that make the employee -
would that be a prima facie case against the employer?
MR. SCHNAPPER: It -- it would. But -
JUSTICE ALITO: Even if the -
MR. SCHNAPPER: But the affirmative -
JUSTICE ALITO: Even if the employer at that
time did every -- made every reasonable effort to
investigate the validity of all the prior evaluations,
still the employer would be on the hook?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Yes. There is nothing in
the statute or in the common law that creates a special
rule for thorough investigation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's a sweeping
rule. I was going to ask a related hypothetical.
Suppose the -- the officer who's in charge, charged with
the decision to terminate or not to terminate, says:
I'm going to have a hearing. You can both have counsel.
And you have -- who is it -- suppose Buck -- suppose the
two employees that were allegedly anti-military here
testified, and they said there was no anti-military
bias, and the person is then terminated.
Later the employee has evidence that those
two were lying. Could he bring an action then?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Yes. Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's sweeping. That's
almost an insurer's liability insofar as the director of
employment is concerned.
MR. SCHNAPPER: It's respondeat -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: He has to ensure -- he -
that he has done everything he can. He has a hearing,
and he has almost absolute liability.
MR. SCHNAPPER: Respondeat -- respondeat
superior is absolute liability. There -- there's no due
diligence exception. In fact, if you look to section
219 of the Restatement of Agency, 219 part (2)(b)
provides for liability based on negligence, but part
(2)(d), regardless of whether there's negligence,
provides liability if you're added in your -- aided in
your conduct by the -- by your position.
Now, it's possible, depending on the exact
facts, that the situation you described wouldn't fit
into scope of employment or aided in. If you just had
two people whose only role was just as witnesses, then
they're not acting as agents; they are just witnesses,
perhaps.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there is -
MR. SCHNAPPER: But there is no -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There is a defense for
the employer that, no matter that there was this ill
will, there was enough else to warrant termination of
this employee. And so the -
MR. SCHNAPPER: That's correct, Your Honor.
And it's the language of section 4311(c)(1) that's
critical here. The statute provides that if an improper
motive was a motivating factor, there is a defense. But
there's only one defense, and the defense is a showing
the employer would have fired the plaintiff anyway. The
language is mandatory. It says if the defense is not
made out, the employer shall be considered to have
violated the statute.
But the -- the clearest enunciation of the
error in the Seventh Circuit is the -- is the language
at page 47 of the Joint Appendix, where the court says:
Without regard to the jury verdict here, the employer is
off the hook if the decisionmaker did her own
investigation. That's an additional defense.
And it's simply inconsistent with the
language of the statute. Now, that may not have been -
that may have been harsh, but it's what the statute
says.
JUSTICE ALITO: That isn't what the statute
says. You -- you jump over the language of the statute.
It has to be a motivating factor in the decision to
discharge. And that speaks -- that looks natural -- the
natural reading of that is that it looks at the
motivation of the person who actually makes the decision
to discharge.
Now, I'm not suggesting that's the right
rule. That's a very unattractive rule. But the rule
that you have suggested is also a very unattractive
rule, one that I doubt the Congress intended to adopt.
Is there no reasonable middle position here? It's all
or nothing?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Well, I think that the -
the kind of circumstances that the Court has pointed to
would be relevant at the remedy stage. The remedies are
-- are discretionary and, whereas 4311(c)(1) says
"shall," 4323 in describing all the remedies says "may."
And so a court could take those things into account in
framing a remedy.
And certainly the good faith efforts of
someone in Buck's position, for example, would be
relevant to a determination whether a violation was
willful. And that, in fact, reflects what happened in
this case, which is that the jury found that there was a
violation -- found that the -- the motivations involved
here included an improper motivation, rejected the
4311(c)(1) defense, but then found the violation wasn't
willful.
So I think, given the structure of the
statute, the -- the play here, the ability to adjust to
those circumstances, is in the remedy provision, not in
the mandatory language of the 4311(c)(1).
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't that -- isn't the
Government's formulation that the discrimination has to
play a substantial role in the termination a limiting
principle? I mean, you answered or appeared to be
answering Justice Alito that in a 10-year history, if
one report of discrimination existed, that that would
shift the burden to the employer.
Is that an accurate statement of law? That
one report has to play a role that's more than a mere
existence, doesn't it?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Well, in that regard, I
think we would articulate the standard differently.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Than the SG?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Yes. The language in the
statute is not "a substantial motivating factor." It's
"a motivating factor." And that choice of language is
clearly deliberate. This whole -- this language in this
provision derives from this Court's decision in Price
Waterhouse, a very -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it has to have some
materiality to -- to the decision. I mean, it has to
have -- it has to play not just any role. It has to
play a material role in the decision, no? Or -- they
use "substantial." It could be "material." It could
be -
MR. SCHNAPPER: If I could go back to Price
Waterhouse and explain how we got to this language. It
was a sharply divided opinion. The plurality standard
of Justice Brennan said "a motivating factor." Justice
White's standard would have -- was "a substantially
motivating factor." Justice O'Connor's standard was
"substantial." Justice Kennedy pointed out in his
dissenting opinion that was going to lead to fights
about how much was enough to be substantial.
When Congress then wrote the 1991 Civil
Rights Act, from which this language derives, amending
Title VII, they used the Brennan language, "a motivating
factor." They didn't use "substantial," and I think
that was clearly deliberate. Everybody -- anyone who
read Price Waterhouse -- and that provision was written
about Price Waterhouse -- would have understood that
that was a difference within the Court, and they made
that choice.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Schnapper, I guess this
goes back to Justice Alito's question. I find it
difficult to grasp the distinction that you draw or what
it seems that could possibly exist between a willful
motivating factor and a non-willful motivating factor.
I mean, to say that it's motivating is -- is to say that
it's willful, it seems to me. But you want us to draw a
distinction between a willful motivating factor and a
non-willful motivating factor.
MR. SCHNAPPER: That's not our position,
Justice Scalia. Our position is that, with regard to
the liability determination in 4311, that any motivating
factor is what's required. And if you have a number of
different officials involved, Buck and Mulally and
Korenchuk, if anyone of -- if anyone who played a role
in this had an unlawful motive, that satisfies
4311(c)(1), and the burden shifts to the employer to
show it would have done the same thing anyway.
Willfulness doesn't have that same language
about a motivating factor. It just asks whether the
employer's violation was willful. This Court's decision
about willfulness in Thurston and Hazen Paper I think
are broad enough to encompass a situation where you had
several different officials. And if I might -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you want to hold the
-- the employer liable for the actions of these other
officials, other than the one who did the firing. And
if they are liable for -- if you hold them -- the
employer liable for their contribution to the filing, it
seems to me you have to hold him liable for their
willfulness as well.
MR. SCHNAPPER: It's our view that the
language of the statute permits that distinction because
of the discretionary nature of the remedy provision as
opposed to the mandatory nature of 4311(c)(1).
I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Schnapper.
Mr. Miller.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS
AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING PETITIONER
MR. MILLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
An employer is liable under USERRA when a
supervisor acting with a discriminatory motive uses a
delegated authority to cause an adverse employment
action. The court of appeals held that liability does
not attach unless that supervisor exerts singular
influence over the decisionmaker. But that standard is
inconsistent with the statute for two reasons. First,
it's incompatible with the statutory definition of
"employer," which includes not just the ultimate
decisionmaker, but any person to whom the employer has
delegated the performance of significant employment
responsibilities.
Second, it's contrary to the statute's
causation standard, which requires only that military
status be a motivating factor, not necessarily a
singularly important factor or the determinative factor
in the adverse employment action. Now -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you regard -- is
that the same as a but-for cause, the motivating factor?
MR. MILLER: No. There's two separate
components to the inquiry. First -- the first is that
it has to be a motivating factor, and that's the
plaintiff's burden to establish in order to make a prima
facie case under section 4311(c). And then there is an
affirmative defense if the employer can show that it was
not a but-for factor in the sense that, you know, even
had the person not been in the military, the same action
would have been taken. That's the -- if the employer
can show that, then it's absolved of liability.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you using proximate
cause in but-for, or are you suggesting a different
formulation of causation?
MR. MILLER: In our view, the "motivating
factor" language captures the idea of proximate cause.
Something can be a motivating factor if it is one of
many factors, but, in our view, it does need to be more
than a trivial or de minimis factor, and if you have a
situation where the bias -- the action of the biased
supervisor leads through a long and improbable and
unforeseeable chain of causation to the adverse
employment action, you might have a but-for cause, but
you wouldn't have proximate cause, and it wouldn't be a
motivating factor.
Now, this case, and I think most real-world
cases, are quite different from that. Here we have a
termination decision, and that was made by Buck on the
basis of the January 27th warning that was given to
Petitioner and the report that Petitioner had not
complied with that warning. And both parts of that, the
warning issued by Mulally and the report of
noncompliance that came from Korenchuk, both parts of
that the jury could have concluded were in -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In that formulation as
you've just articulated, where do you place your test of
a subordinate setting in motion and playing a
substantial role? What is that test that you proposed
in your brief -- how does it fit into this?
MR. MILLER: The -- the discriminatorily
motivated actions in this case, on the evidence
interpreted in the light most favorable to Petitioner,
were the decision of Mulally to write up Petitioner for
this January 27th incident, and that was motivated by
her hostility to him because of his status in the Army
Reserves; and then the decision of Korenchuk to report
that he had violated the terms of that January 27th
warning, and that was also motivated by his hostility to
Petitioner's membership in the -- in the Army Reserves.
And both of those decisions had a substantial causal
role in the -- in the ultimate decision made by the
employer to terminate. And, because both of those
people, Mulally and Korenchuk -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Your -- Petitioner's
counsel argues that there is no issue of -- in the
motivating factor test, it doesn't have to be a
substantial role; it just has to be a motivating factor,
so that the subordinates -
MR. MILLER: Well, this may just be a
semantic disagreement. We don't think it has to be
substantial in the sense of predominant. It can be one
of -- there can be many factors, and as long as it's one
of them, that's a motivating factor. But it needs to be
substantial in the sense of more than de minimis or more
than trivial, something that the employer actually took
into account as one of the reasons -
JUSTICE ALITO: What happens in the
situation where a prior evaluation or some disciplinary
action does have a substantial effect on the decision
that's -- the employment decision that's made, but the
employer has no notice that the prior evaluation or
disciplinary action was based on a biased ground, or any
reasonable way of finding out that it was based on a
biased ground? What happens in that situation?
MR. MILLER: There would still be liability
just as there is liability in the situation, which is
quite common, where an employer gives a single official
the authority to both observe an employee's behavior and
make a decision to terminate. If that single official
is biased and makes a decision on the basis of that
bias, then the employer is going to be liable even if
the people who hired that official tried very hard to
make sure that he wasn't biased. And that's consistent
with -
JUSTICE ALITO: How do you get around the
statutory language that says that the motivating -- it
has to be a motivating factor in the -- in the action
that is challenged?
MR. MILLER: It -- it has to be a
motivating -- the statute says a motivating factor in
the employer's action.
JUSTICE ALITO: And the employer's action
here is -- is discharge.
MR. MILLER: Yes, and the employer -- when
it's -- the employer is a corporation, and it's -- so
you have to look at which individuals do you look at in
figuring out whether it was a motivating factor or not,
and the statute tells us that. In the definition of
"employer" in section 4303, it says that the employer
includes everyone who has been delegated the performance
of employment-related responsibilities.
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, but those other
people -- everybody who has been delegated authority
under the -- by the employer are not -- is not involved
in the action that is challenged.
MR. MILLER: They -
JUSTICE ALITO: Does not take the action
that is challenged.
MR. MILLER: They are not the last person
who signs the piece of paper, but they certainly are
part of the employer's decision.
JUSTICE ALITO: So maybe then the test is
whether they were delegated some of the responsibility
for the challenged action. Were they delegated
responsibility for making the discharge decision?
MR. MILLER: They -- they were delegated
supervisory responsibility by the -- by the employer,
the authority to observe the people under their
supervision, to evaluate and report on their
performance, the authority to initiate disciplinary
proceedings. And they used that authority in a
discriminatory manner, and that, that conduct by them,
was a substantial causal factor in the -- in the
ultimate action of discharge. And given the -- the
statutory definition of employer and the motivating
factor causation standard, that's enough under the
statute for -- for liability.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about a
situation where a particular procedure such as the one
here is set up for a discriminatory reason, and the
employee is really upset with that, and so he, you know,
starts a fire in the plant? Wouldn't have had -
wouldn't have set the fire if not for the discriminatory
purpose. Now, does he have a cause of action in that
case when he's fired for setting -- setting the office
on fire?
MR. MILLER: No, even though, as you say, in
a sense there would be but-for causation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It wouldn't have
happened -- yes.
MR. MILLER: But it is not -- it's not under
any standard of proximate causation, and not a -- the
initial discriminatory discipline or warning would not
be a motivating or substantial factor in the ultimate
decision to fire him. He is being fired because of the
intervening cause that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you do accept
that the traditional doctrine of an intervening cause is
applicable in this?
MR. MILLER: Some independent intervening
cause. Now, in this case, we don't have anything like
that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but what -
what independent intervening cause -
MR. MILLER: Independent of the employer.
In this case, we have a number of people, all of whom
are agents of the same employer. So, under traditional
principles of -- of an intervening cause, one can't say
that any one of those agents of the employer was an
intervening cause that broke the chain of causation from
misconduct of the other agent of the employer. You have
a series of agents of the same employer engaging in a
course of conduct that at the beginning of which is an
unlawfully -- unlawful discriminatory motive that leads
to the termination.
That's quite different from the employee
deciding to start a fire or engage in some sort of
misconduct that has nothing to do with his military
status.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but -- I'm --
I'm sorry, but I think the end there just kind of glided
over the whole issue. You say it had nothing to do with
his military status. It has to do with a procedure that
was set up because the employer was discriminating
against him because of his military status. So it
certainly had something to do with his military status.
MR. MILLER: It is not, I think, a -- one
would hope it is not a foreseeable result of discipline
given to an employee that he would then start a fire.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know, but
the hypothetical is extreme to try to flesh out your
position. You can certainly imagine an employee
reacting in a particular way by being put through
procedures that were set up in a discriminatory manner
that would seem to anybody to be a basis for
termination, even though the groundwork was laid by the
discriminatory procedure.
MR. MILLER: I think one would not normally
think that, even if it's less extreme than starting a
fire, that a course of misconduct by the employee is a
foreseeable result of a discriminatory -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wouldn't it -- wouldn't
the employer's defense simply be: Anyone who starts a
fire goes. That's -- that's a -- it would have happened
no matter what the reason was for doing that.
MR. MILLER: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That -- that just comes
under the employer's defense as showing that the same
action would have been taken.
MR. MILLER: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Davis.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROY G. DAVIS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. DAVIS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The parties to this case are in total
agreement with respect to two points. The first point
is that Linda Buck made the decision to fire Vincent
Staub. And the second point is there is no evidence
whatsoever that Linda Buck possessed animus toward Mr.
Staub on account of his service in the Reserve.
Applying ordinary tort-related vicarious
liability rules, Staub's case against Proctor Hospital
would end right here. But the Seventh Circuit, applying
what it calls the "cat's paw" doctrine, gives Staub and
all other plaintiffs like him a second bite at the
apple.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's look at the
hypothetical. Take it out of the facts of this case.
There are two supervisors, each of them have
anti-military animus, and they both report that this
gentleman was late when he wasn't.
MR. DAVIS: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's absolutely a
falsehood. They go in, they report it to Miss Buck.
Miss Buck does an investigation. There are no
witnesses. There's no one else to prove that they came
in late. She just takes the supervisors' word. She
looks at their report -- it was moments after the
employee didn't show up -- and she says: He's a
late-goer. I don't know anything about anti-animus; I
simply fired him because two supervisors who are
trustworthy -- I've looked at their files, they've never
lied about anything before, they are pretty honest
people and -- what happens in that situation?
MR. DAVIS: I think in that situation,
consistent with the "cat's paw" analysis, with the facts
that you set up, the two supervisors so dominated her
decision that there would be likely a finding that the
case goes to the jury.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How? She went and
looked for witnesses, didn't find them. She looked at
their records. She did what happened here; other people
have complained about these people, don't particularly
like them.
MR. DAVIS: But there being no other input
whatsoever beyond that, there still is the domination
issue. If I change your-- your hypothetical just a
little bit and say that all of what you said is true,
but in addition to that the fellow who got fired has a
10-year history of being late, and she looked at that
history, I think that she's now made an independent
decision, which is what happened in this case. And,
therefore, under the Seventh Circuit's rule, no
liability attaches, and that's the right result.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but that's the
question, because you just added a very important fact,
which is a 10-year history of being late. But on this
day, he wasn't late. On this day, the two supervisors
made it up.
MR. DAVIS: And -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would she have fired him
absent that report? Isn't that what the jury has to
decide?
MR. DAVIS: I think that is what the jury
has to decide, but I'm not sure that case in the latter
extended hypothetical gets that far.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, what the -- what
this circuit's "cat's paw" theory does and what others
do say, if she engaged in any investigation, there's no
liability.
MR. DAVIS: I -- I disagree with that a
little bit. I don't think if she engaged in any
investigation, that absolves of liability. I think if
she engages in a good faith investigation, it absolves
of liability.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was it -- what was
it here? Because the -- when -- what was his name --
Korenchuk -
MR. DAVIS: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- takes him into Buck's
office, and Buck hands him the pink slip and says,
"You're fired," that the jury could have credited that
evidence. He was given no opportunity to explain the
situation. What kind of investigation? What -- she
looked at his personnel file. What else was the
investigation?
MR. DAVIS: I will answer that. Before I
get to that, I disagree with the point about he wasn't
given an opportunity to explain. I think the record is
clear he was given an opportunity to explain.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When?
MR. DAVIS: At the -- two times. At the
time he was discharged, on the day that Korenchuk brings
him in, Korenchuk says: "I was looking for you and
couldn't find you." And in the record, in fact, Staub
gave an explanation of his whereabouts. Buck was there.
She heard it.
The second time is, approximately 5 days
later, he files a five-page-long grievance stating
all -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is after he got his
pink slip. What -- what point -- when Korenchuk takes
him into -- takes Staub into Buck's office, according to
his testimony, which the jury could credit, he wasn't
asked a thing. She just said: Here's your pink slip;
you're fired.
MR. DAVIS: I think the record shows he did
give an explanation of his whereabouts. The record also
shows that he filed a five-page grievance contesting
that action.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: After he was fired.
MR. DAVIS: After he was fired. And that
Buck carefully investigated that, and, 5 days after it
was filed, gave him a letter saying: I have looked into
it, I have considered all your arguments, including your
argument that you were discharged on account of your
military service, but I don't credit it. And,
therefore, I'm sustaining the discharge.
And that is absolutely -- Mr. Staub knew
that that works for him, because in 1998 he invoked the
same procedure when he was discharged the first time for
similar reasons, and he was conditionally reinstated to
employment at Proctor Hospital.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did -- did I understand
you to say that you do agree with the Seventh Circuit's
"cat's paw" approach to this?
MR. DAVIS: I do agree with it. The "cat's
paw" approach essentially gives Mr. Staub and others
like him a second bite at the apple. But he has to
demonstrate that the person who possessed animus
exercised so much control over the decisionmaker that
that person became the true decisionmaker. And that
simply doesn't work in this case for a number of
reasons.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, before you -
how is that consistent with the statutory language that
requires that this discrimination simply be a motivating
factor?
MR. DAVIS: The answer to that is the
statute sets forth five factors, four or five factors,
and says that one of the four or five employment actions
has to be a motivating factor in arriving at the
decision. So -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can we -- let's look at
the statutory factors.
MR. DAVIS: Okay. It's 4311(a). And it
says -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, and where -- where
are you reading it from?
MR. DAVIS: From the third line -- well, I'm
sorry, I can't tell you what line it is.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Page 3 of the blue brief.
MR. DAVIS: It says that there are five
actions that are prohibited: denial of initial
employment, reemployment, retention in employment,
promotion, or any benefit of employment.
And it says that an employer cannot take
action, one of those actions, on the basis of four
factors: membership, application for membership,
performance, service -- or service of obligation in the
uniformed services.
So there has to be something to connect one
of those factors to one of those five actions. And
that's the literal meaning of the statute. And I think
the Seventh Circuit's view is absolutely consistent with
that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm sorry.
The statute says is a motivating -- one of those four
things, membership, application, et cetera, is a
motivating factor in the action.
MR. DAVIS: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And I understood
your position to be that the supervisor has to have such
dominant control that it's the "cat's paw."
MR. DAVIS: That -- that -- the
subordinate's.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. DAVIS: -- motivation is imputed
actually to the decisionmaker, and ultimately to the
employer.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I guess where
I'm having trouble following you is the total domination
motivating factor. It seems like a much more stringent
test that the Seventh Circuit has adopted.
MR. DAVIS: Well, I think in the context of
this case, Your Honor, it's not, because the definition
of "employer" here not only includes Proctor Hospital,
what you might call the ultimate employer, but it also
includes the person who made the adverse employment
decision. And in this case, it's Linda Buck.
And this statute creates personal liability
for Ms. Buck or anybody else who makes a decision if
it's based on one of these factors contained in the
statute. I don't think there's any way a jury would be
allowed to consider whether or not Ms. Buck is in
violation of the statute, because there's an absolute
dearth of evidence that any of these factors motivated
the decision she made.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that assumes that
the employment decision is solely hers. It's hers, not
based on her peccadilloes; it's hers based on
information that she has gathered.
MR. DAVIS: I agree. It is hers to the
extent that she makes a good faith investigation into
the background facts.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But -- but she's not
acting in a vacuum. She's acting on information that
has been supplied to her by people who are authorized to
supply that to her in the employment context.
MR. DAVIS: And -- and in this case, she's
acting on an awful lot of information. They pick out -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We're now talking past
the individual case.
MR. DAVIS: Okay.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I am talking about just
the legal analysis, which is: She's a decisionmaker,
but there are multiple actors on behalf of the employer.
That's your adversary's position -
MR. DAVIS: I agree with that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or participating in the
process.
And they're saying if any of those actors in
the process has been delegated employment duties that
permit them to participate in this way, then if what
motivates them is bias of this kind, then the employer
is responsible, not just for Ms. Buck's activities, but
for the two supervisors' discriminatory activities.
MR. DAVIS: That would lead to a
never-ending chain of looking backwards all the time
over the course of perhaps a very long employment
history to scour the record to determine is there one
single or two single actions out there that may somehow
have come forward and caused this termination?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, in most
situations, an employer comes in and says: I fired X
for X, Y, and Z reasons. And if they don't mention one
of those inconsequential or immaterial reports, why
would a court rely on it at all? It's not a motivating
factor.
MR. DAVIS: I'm not sure I thoroughly
understand the hypothetical, but if the true
decisionmaker there comes forward and says, I didn't
know about this, I didn't rely upon it -- I don't think
that the animus can be imputed to the decisionmaker.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why is this so complicated?
I'm probably missing something.
MR. DAVIS: I don't think -
JUSTICE BREYER: But the thing -- but it
doesn't help you, I don't think, if it isn't
complicated.
MR. DAVIS: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is the -- because of
Burlington, we're only talking about a certain number of
employees who could make an employer responsible.
MR. DAVIS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. So those are
supervisory people, we'll call them.
MR. DAVIS: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, why don't
we just stop there and just say we have a statute, the
statute says that if -- if a bad motive was a
motivating -- had to be a motivating factor,
discriminatory -- a discriminatory motivating factor in
the dismissal, then, unless you can prove an affirmative
defense, you lose.
Why do we have to have something special if
one of these small group of employees happens to be the
person who said the last words or happens to be somebody
who told somebody who said the last words or happens to
be somebody who told the somebody the
something-or-other? You're just looking for one thing.
And there could be five zillion fact situations.
So why something special? Why did the
Seventh Circuit say where it's not the guy who said the
last words, you have to show, quote, "singular
influence"? Why singular influence? Why not just what
the statute says -
MR. DAVIS: I think that -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- that it was -- that it
led to the -- what she said, led to the discriminatory
motive being a motivating factor, period, end of the
matter. No special "cat's paw" rule, no special
anything rule.
MR. DAVIS: No consideration of proximate
cause, either.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, no. Of course, you
have to show proximate cause. You have to show cause.
You always do. I'm just saying, why have a special
rule? Why not have a special rule if somebody was on
the second floor? You wouldn't think of that. So if
you're not going to do it because the person's on the
second floor, why do it because they happen to be
somebody who told somebody, rather than somebody who was
the person who was told?
MR. DAVIS: Because to motivate -- to be
motivated by one of these factors, there has to be some
element of proximate causation -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, fine. You're
perfectly entitled to say that. But what I don't see
that you're entitled to say are the words that the
Seventh Circuit used, which is: You have to show jury
that there was sufficient evidence to support a finding
of singular influence.
MR. DAVIS: I think that -
JUSTICE BREYER: That doesn't just sound
like it was a motivating cause. That sounds like it was
something really special.
MR. DAVIS: I -- I think that that is the
Seventh Circuit's way of saying proximate cause.
JUSTICE BREYER: Ah, okay. So why don't we
say: Seventh Circuit, if that's your way of saying it
is just a normal thing like cause, we accept that, but
please don't use those words. And because you might
have used -- you might have used them meaning something
else, we will send this back so we're certain that what
you are doing is applying the same test to everything.
In other words, was it a motivating factor?
MR. DAVIS: I think you could say that.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Then your -
that seems like a good resolution of this case to me. I
don't know if it does to them.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think -- I think that
you've misread -- I think that you've misread the "cat's
paw" principle of the court of appeals. I don't think
that it is, to them, a determination of proximate cause
at all.
As I understand their opinion, they say that
the statute requires that the -- let me get the right
language here -- that the discriminatory -- prohibited
discriminatory factor must have been a motivating factor
in the employer's action. And they say that means it
must have motivated the person who took the employer's
action.
It's not a motivating factor in the
employer's action unless the person who took the action
on behalf of the employer had that as its motive.
Then the court of appeals makes an
exception: However, if the person who appears to be
taking the action on behalf of the employer is really
not the person who took the action, but was totally
under the control of a subordinate who -- and the person
just swallowed that subordinate's determination, then we
will hold, even though the ultimate firing -- the person
who signed the pink slip, even though that person didn't
have the motive, if in fact the decision was effectively
the decision of a lower subordinate, we will hold the
employer.
It has nothing to do with proximate cause.
It has to do with the text that it has to be a
motivating factor in the employer's action; not a
motivating factor somewhere down the line, but in the
employer's action. That's how I read the court of
appeals' opinion.
MR. DAVIS: And I agree with that, and we
get back to the notion that, in this case, it was
Ms. Buck who made the decision. She made the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the -
MR. DAVIS: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Mrs. Buck never would
have made this decision if Korenchuk hadn't come in and
said: Here's Staub, he's goofing off; he was told to
tell me when he was going to be absent, and he didn't.
Korenchuk, who has the animus, is a
motivating factor certainly in what happened to Mr.
Staub, because if you didn't have Mr. Korenchuk marching
Staub into Buck's office he would have retained his job.
Wasn't his last -- his most recent performance rating
very good?
MR. DAVIS: Only on one respect. He
received a technical "very good," but with respect to
the narrative portion of that evaluation, it says: I
want you to stay in the department when you're being
paid to work, and not to be out wandering around.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In any case, there was no
indication, apart from Korenchuk's coming in, that Buck
would have taken any adverse action against Staub.
MR. DAVIS: I don't think we know the answer
to that. It was -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- that's not the
point. It seems to me you have to -- we're not going to
second-guess the jury determination here.
I understood your point to be that there's a
difference between a motivating factor in the decision,
which means the person who made the decision on behalf
of the employer must have had that motive and, on the
other hand, a factor which was relevant to the decision,
or a factor which influenced the decision. That's quite
different from a motivating factor in the decision.
You -- you have to get us to believe -- and
I'm not sure we will -- that "motivating factor in the
decision" refers to motive on the part of the person who
made the decision. That's -- that's essentially your
point, isn't it?
MR. DAVIS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then you can't agree
with me, because my question was why would that be? You
have two people, A and B; they are both supervisors. In
the one case, B fires the employee because he's in the
Army, and he says it: Ha, ha, that's why I'm doing it.
In the second case, he fires the employee
because he thought the employee was -- in one of Justice
Sotomayor's hypotheticals or anyone else, he fires him
for a perfectly good reason, but A has lied about it.
And the reason A lied about it was because she wanted to
tell him a lie so B would fire the employee, and her
reason is because he's in the Army.
Those two situations -- the second seems to
me one of 80 -- 80 million situations, fact-related,
that could arise, and I don't know why we want a special
standard for such a situation. Why not just ask the
overall question: Was this action an action that was -
in which the bad motive was a motivating factor? Forget
psychoanalysis of A; B is good enough; or vice versa.
That was my question.
MR. DAVIS: And in B, the employer could not
be liable. In B, the person who made the decision, the
employer, was not motivated by one of the factors in the
statute; that person couldn't be liable. If that person
can't be liable, how can that employer of that person be
vicariously liable? I don't think they can.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because together they
dismissed the employee.
MR. DAVIS: Oh, no.
JUSTICE BREYER: One by supplying the false
statement, the other by acting on it.
MR. DAVIS: I disagree with that. A
corporation can only act through its agents.
JUSTICE BREYER: They are both agents.
That's why I made them both Burlington people. I wanted
to get them in the group. They both have the same
Burlington status, so we get that issue out of it. And
together they fire this individual. In the absence of
either the one or the other, he wouldn't have been
fired.
MR. DAVIS: I've listened to the
hypothetical long enough that I've lost track of who
made the decision to fire him.
JUSTICE BREYER: I feel I'm going to get
nowhere pursuing this hypothetical further. So I will
drop it and say -
MR. DAVIS: Thank you.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- answer it as you wish or
as you understand it.
MR. DAVIS: As I understand it, the second
person in the hypothetical had no motivation whatsoever
under the statute to cause the discharge, and,
therefore, the employer wouldn't be liable for that
decision.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, your position is -
and it coincides with the Seventh Circuit, but it is in
opposition to the Secretary of Labor's commentary on how
this works. The Secretary of Labor's commentary is it's
a motivating factor. And if Korenchuk precipitates this
whole thing, that's a motivating factor.
Do we -- I mean, this is -- the Secretary of
Labor administers the statute. Do we give any weight to
the government's official position on what a motivating
factor means?
MR. DAVIS: Normally, you would give weight
to the government's position, but I think the
government's position has to be consistent with the
precise language of the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How does the Secretary of
Labor administer this statute? What are -- what are his
or her responsibilities under the statute?
MR. DAVIS: There can be a charge filed with
the Secretary of Labor, which the Secretary of Labor
would then investigate. The Secretary of Labor has the
option to bring an action, should the Secretary choose
to do so. But, coterminously, the individual service
person can bring an independent cause of action, and
that's what happened in this case. In this case, there
was no Secretary of Labor involvement.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, why isn't this just
governed by the standard principles of tort for
concurrent actors? Actor A was not negligent; actor B
was; they both contributed to the accident. And we look
to the Restatement of Torts, which is whether or not the
wrongful actor made a significant contribution. That's
-- that's the end of it.
MR. DAVIS: I think that the problem with
this situation is, is that one of the actors here, the
decision that she made, being Mulally, and that's with
respect to whom the most evidence of animus was adduced,
didn't commit an action that would be actionable under
USERRA. There -- there's no way that issuing the
constructive advice record on January 27th violated the
statute, even if it was motivated by animus.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we're -- but we're
talking about the test. And the test I gave you is
quite different from the "cat's paw" test. And if you
use the test something along the lines that I
formulated -- I don't know if that's precisely what the
Restatement says -
MR. DAVIS: Sure.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- but to that general
effect, the instruction given to the jury was really
overprotective of your client, under the standard
concurrent -- concurrent causation analysis.
MR. DAVIS: The instruction may have been
somewhat protective, but the problem is, prior to
issuing that instruction, the district court did no
analysis whatsoever to determine if the instruction was
warranted in the first place.
And that was simply our point to the Seventh
Circuit. Before you allow this to fall into the lap of
a jury and try and explain to a jury, as opposed to the
Supreme Court, what it means to be a "cat's paw" in the
agency theory, the district court should at least make
an initial determination that that's what we have here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can -- can I turn to the
Secretary of Labor's regulations? Are what we talking
about anything more than the following statement in his
commentary accompanying the final regs, namely that an
employee, quote, "need not show that his or her
protected activities or status was the sole cause of the
employment action. The person's activities or status
need be only one of the factors that a truthful employer
would list if asked for the reasons for its decision."
Is that -- is that the only -
MR. DAVIS: I believe that is the only thing
with -- there may be a section later on, Your Honor, in
the regs that deals with the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, this is the one that
the Government refers to.
MR. DAVIS: That's certainly the commentary
that goes with it. I agree with that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't seem to me to
be so damning of your case. I think if this employer
had been asked the reasons for its decision, it would
have given Ms. Buck's reasons.
MR. DAVIS: Ms. Buck would have said: I let
him go because he has this veritable tsunami of bad
behaviors. What he is accused of is absolutely
consistent with it. And I made the decision.
Is it a truthful statement by her? It is
absolutely a truthful statement by her, and that was the
reason for her actions.
I think Ms. Buck's consideration of the
discharge decision wasn't limited to one source. It
clearly was not. No one shaped or directed the scope of
her determination. Even more important, she gave Mr.
Staub the opportunity to tell his side of the story.
And after considering all of that, she decided that his
discharge was warranted.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it -- could a jury
find from the testimony before -- before it, that at the
time he received his pink slip -- let's not talk about
the grievance after -
MR. DAVIS: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- at the time he got the
grievance slip, he was not given any opportunity to
explain that this charge was not warranted, that he had
tried to reach Korenchuk on the phone to tell him:
We're going to lunch and was unable to. He did not have
an opportunity to say that to Ms. Buck.
MR. DAVIS: Again, Your Honor, I believe the
record says -- and I apologize, I can't quote it from
the page -- that in fact Mr. Staub protested that what
he was accused of, i.e., not being where he was supposed
to be, was wrong. And he stated his version of it.
If there are no other questions, Your Honor,
I would respectfully request that the decision of the
Seventh Circuit be affirmed. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Schnapper, you have 4 minutes remaining.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Schnapper, is that
your recollection of this record, too, that -- that he
was -- he did state his version before he got the pink
slip?
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC SCHNAPPER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SCHNAPPER: I think it's -- it's
somewhat unclear what happened. It's complicated by the
fact that the defendant's account of why he was fired
has changed. One -- the written explanation was that he
never obeyed the rule for the 3 months it was in effect.
The explanation given by Buck was that she had been told
that he wasn't -- couldn't have been found on the 19th.
The -- the story that was given to Staub at the time was
that Korenchuk couldn't find him on the 20th, so if he
was responding to that, he was responding to the wrong
question.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't think anybody
thought that Buck would have fired him just for that one
absence. That -- that was the trigger. But it was the
trigger that followed a long series of prior absences
for which he had been disciplined before.
MR. SCHNAPPER: With all due -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't see any
inconsistency between those two versions.
MR. SCHNAPPER: But those aren't the
versions in the record -- the written record at the
time. The written record at the time says he's fired
because he has been breaking this rule ever since
January. Nobody claims that's true.
If I -- we don't -- a number of questions.
I think particularly Justice Alito asked whether
Congress would have intended the result in this case.
We don't think it's as harsh as you do, but we think
that the intent is particularly clear here. Section
4301(1) says that the purpose of the -- and this is the
codified purpose -- the purpose of the statute is to
minimize the disadvantages to civilian careers that can
result from service in the military. And -- and that,
it seems to me, you have to read -- you have to read the
rest of the statute.
Secondly, this -- USERRA is unique among
employment statutes or close to it, because the employer
has an economic incentive to break the law. It's
expensive to keep reservists on the book. And Mulally
and Korenchuk objected to Staub working there precisely
because it cost them more money when he went to drill,
and it cost them more money when he was called up for
operation Iraqi Freedom.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, do you think that the
standard for employer liability is different under this
statute than under other Federal antidiscrimination
statutes? Is that what you're - you were just
suggesting?
MR. SCHNAPPER: I think there are
particularly compelling textual reasons for the position
we're urging here. Other statutes have different
language. I'm not trying to address those -
JUSTICE ALITO: So that if we -- if we hold
here that -
MR. SCHNAPPER: You might decide this
case -
JUSTICE ALITO: If we were to hold here that
the "cat's paw" theory doesn't apply under this statute,
the Seventh Circuit and other circuits could continue to
apply the "cat's paw" theory under Title VII or under
the ADEA or under the ADA?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Well, we think that would be
wrong for some of the reasons we've set out in our
brief, but -- but you could write an opinion that only
addressed it under USERRA and left those other questions
open. The -- and -- but the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why would Title VII be
different?
MR. SCHNAPPER: Well, the -- the language
that -- the language in Title VII is similar to
4311(c)(1), but the language that I just read about the
purpose isn't in Title VII. So if some -- you could
decide this case on somewhat narrower grounds and not
reach every situation.
The -- the interpretation of USERRA
adopted by the Seventh Circuit creates a serious
loophole in the statute. As a number of the amici have
pointed out, amici on the other side, employers
typically make a disciplinary decision as a result of a
bunch of different decisions.
The Seventh Circuit holds that so long as
the employer divides up those responsibilities, USERRA
will not apply to many of the decisions. On their view,
USERRA applies only to what the last decisionmaker did.
And the narrower her role, the narrower the protections
of the statute.
This statute should not be read in that way,
not only because of the language that I've recounted,
but because USERRA, it's reemployment rights, and it's
antidiscrimination rights play an essential role in the
national defense. They safeguard the livelihood of men
and women who safeguard the nation. And Congress would
have wanted that statute read broadly.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 1:59 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
ADA 50:9 allow 45:6 2:9,12 3:3,7 8:6 38:14 40:9 47:23
addressed 50:13 analysis 26:10 40:24 41:6 benefit 31:5
31:14 46:9 ADEA 50:9 animus 4:4 25:8,19 articulate 13:4 bias 8:15 9:10 17:17
adjust 12:15 30:4 34:18 39:13 articulated 18:8 20:3 33:24
adverse 16:7,21 antidiscrimination attach 16:9 book 49:12
29:15 48:1 advice 44:12 anti-animus 26:4 authorities 6:25 branch 7:17,17
41:25 afternoon 3:4 anyway 10:21 15:3 awful 33:10 BREYER 34:19,22
5:24 apologize 47:8 B 36:22 37:4,9,18
9:12 16:8
7:18 appeals 16:8 37:24 b 9:24 40:22,23 41:5 40:20 41:21,24
17:6,17,20
45:9 38:12 39:3 41:13,15,16 44:1 42:3,13,17
20:9,13
21:2,4,11,21
24:21 29:9
appeared 12:21 background 3:16 bring 9:12 43:19,21
38:6,8,10
39:4 40:20 Appendix 11:2 backwards 34:3 broad 15:8
40:1 41:11,11
apple 25:15 30:3 bad 5:4 35:10 41:12 broadly 51:16
44:10
5:2 7:18
10:2,6 50:8 51:6 9:25 19:19,20 32:14,16,19 39:6,9
18:13 30:15
34:6
5:1 8:5,18,20 37:15 basis 18:1 20:2 24:7 48:4,11
12:22 19:14 approach 29:25 30:2 31:7 Buck's 12:6 28:4
21:4,9 approximately beginning 23:10 29:2 33:25 39:16
caused 34:7 coincides 42:25 contributes 7:3 26:9,19 27:9,13,20
certainly 12:5 21:7 34:16 control 30:5 31:23 31:20,24 32:2,9
46:1 commentary 43:1,2 controlling 3:19 34:14,21,25 35:4,7
22:10 chain 17:19 23:7 commit 44:10 corporation 20:17 37:17 39:4,8,19
common 8:25 19:24 42:2 40:2,19 41:15,23
17:3,23 18:13 22:11,19,25 23:17 44:24 34:4 36:10 decide 8:8 27:12,14
23:3 25:4 24:2,23 25:2 30:9 conditionally 29:21 court 1:1,12 3:10 50:3,21
26:13 31:16,21 32:1,5 conduct 6:6,7,12 11:2,24 12:3 14:9 decided 8:11 46:19
30:7 32:10 47:15 51:18 7:19,20 10:3 21:19 16:4,8 25:3 34:12 deciding 23:14
33:9,12 choice 13:8 14:10 23:10 37:24 38:12 39:2 decision 5:7,7,12
39:5,24 choose 43:19 Congress 3:15 45:2,8,9 6:9 7:4 9:5 11:12
43:22,22 Circuit 11:1 25:12 11:20 14:2 48:25 Court's 6:9 13:10 11:15 13:10,13,15
48:25 50:4,21 32:8 35:23 36:25 51:15 15:6 15:6 17:25 18:15
37:10 42:25 45:6 connect 31:11 coworker 6:4,14 8:2 18:18,23 19:16,17
27:17 29:25 circuit's 3:19 27:2 46:14 creates 8:25 32:15 27:1 30:17 32:14
31:23 36:6 27:17 29:24 31:14 considered 10:23 50:24 32:16,22,24 38:20
44:16 45:8 37:8 29:14 credit 29:3,16 38:21 39:6,10 40:8
circumstances considering 46:19 credited 28:6 40:9,11,12,13,16
21:23 civilian 49:5 43:11 46:10 cumulative 5:8 46:5,10,15 47:13
23:7 claims 48:22 constructive 44:12 curiae 1:19 2:8 16:2 51:2
44:24 clear 28:14 49:2 contained 32:17 decisionmaker 11:4
22:6 clearly 13:9 14:6 context 32:9 33:8 d 1:17 2:6 3:1 10:1 32:3 33:15 34:16
23:1,5 46:16 continue 50:7 15:25 34:18 51:7
36:9,11,11 client 44:23 contrary 16:17 damning 46:4 decisions 3:12,15
38:23 close 49:10 contribute 5:16 Davis 1:21 2:10 4:22 5:9,13,16,17
43:21 45:16 codified 49:4 contributed 44:2 24:24,25 25:2,21 18:22 51:3,6
11:5 disciplinary 7:10 due 9:22 48:15 employers 51:1 example 6:8 7:23
17:4 24:15 19:15,19 21:17 duties 33:22 employer's 4:5,6 12:6
35:14 51:14 51:2 D.C 1:8,18 15:6 20:13,14 21:8 exception 9:23
21:22 32:10 23:25 E 38:25 39:2 exercised 30:5
21:10,11 discretionary 12:1 economic 49:11 7:6 9:16 10:6 16:7 exist 14:14
33:22 15:19 effect 19:16 44:22 16:15,21 17:20 existed 12:23
18:12 element 36:21 20:23 29:7 48:2,4
37:25 38:17 dismiss 5:7 8:15 9:11 10:15 ensure 9:18 facie 4:3 8:16 17:3
45:10 46:17 dismissal 3:11 35:13 22:3 23:13 24:1,4 entitled 36:23,24 fact 9:23 12:8 27:5
15:9 17:10 14:13,18 15:18 35:3,16 error 11:1 14:5,15,15,18,19
23:13 40:13 distinguishes 7:14 employee's 19:25 ESQ 1:15,17,21 2:3 14:23 15:5 16:19
49:18,24 district 45:2,9 employer 3:13 4:24 2:6,10,13 16:20,20,23 17:1,5
51:3 divided 13:20 5:2,24 6:5,19,20 essential 51:13 17:13,14,16,22
42:1 dominant 31:23 21:1,14,22 23:2,4 evaluations 8:10,14 40:13,15 41:12
20:15 32:6 33:24 34:9 35:3 20:25 30:14,14,19 31:8
29:17 doubt 11:20 38:11,14,22 40:10 evidence 9:11 18:13 31:12 32:17,21
41:17 45:18 follow 4:17 13:25 20:3 36:15 history 12:22 26:24 inconsistent 11:6
26:10 33:4 following 32:6 45:13 47:5 hold 15:10,13,15 independent 22:22
46:22 48:7 24:25 guess 14:11 32:5 I instruction 44:22,25
general 1:18 44:21 ill 10:13 insurer's 9:15
24:1,12,16 10:12 24:14,19 hand 40:11 imagine 24:4 intent 49:2
41:5 42:7,12 27:25 28:4,15,25 hands 28:5 immaterial 34:11 interpretation 50:23
27:10 28:6 39:7,9,24 42:24 happened 12:8 27:5 46:17 interrelated 3:12
34:9 46:21 47:1,18 22:12 24:16 26:16 improbable 17:18 intervening 22:18
48:1,11,20 50:15 27:1 39:14 43:22 improper 10:18 22:20,22 23:1,5,7
29:20 45:4 28:14 44:22 46:6 hard 20:4 incident 18:16 investigated 29:12
35:21 30:2 hear 3:3 20:22 32:11,13 27:22,23 28:8,10
goes 14:12 24:16 held 16:8 inconsequential involved 12:10
42:6 45:11,24 46:3,21 5:24 6:10 7:18 29:13 21:3,6,13 22:9,13
44:12 Kennedy 9:2,14,18 left 50:13 lot 33:10 misconduct 23:8,15
13:24 43:24 44:14 legal 33:15 lower 6:22 38:21 24:12
27:11,13 know 5:18,18 17:5 liability 3:22 9:15,20 making 21:12 months 48:3
29:3 32:18 22:3 24:2 26:4 9:22,25 10:2 14:22 mandatory 10:22 motion 7:24 18:9
40:6 44:22 34:17 37:20 40:2 16:8 17:8 19:22,23 12:17 15:20 motivate 4:9 36:19
46:21 41:9 44:18 21:24 25:11 27:3 manner 21:19 24:6 motivated 18:13,16
4:2,9,13,17 18:5,18,25 28:2,17 49:18 material 13:15,16 38:7 41:17 44:13
6:21 7:2 28:18 29:1 39:10 liable 5:24 6:22 7:18 materiality 13:13 motivates 33:24
9:2,14 39:13,15 43:3 47:4 15:11,13,14,15 matter 1:11 10:13 motivating 4:4
10:10,12 48:7 49:13 16:5 20:3 41:16,18 24:17 36:6 51:21 10:19 11:12 13:7,8
12:18,22 Korenchuk's 39:25 41:19,20 42:22 matters 7:10 13:21,23 14:4,15
lie 41:5 mean 12:21 13:13 14:15,16,18,19,22
14:11,12,21 L 14:16 43:5
16:3,22 Labor 43:6,14,17,17 light 18:14 meaning 31:13 17:12,14,22 19:3,4
18:7 19:1,14 43:18,23 limited 46:15 37:13 19:10 20:8,9,12,12
21:4,9 Labor's 43:1,2 limiting 12:20 means 4:10 38:6 20:19 21:22 22:16
22:11,19,25 45:12 Linda 25:6,8 32:14 40:9 43:8 45:8 30:11,16 31:17,19
24:2,14,19 laid 6:8 8:12 24:8 line 30:24,25 39:1 measures 7:10 32:7 34:12 35:11
25:2,16,22 language 3:24 10:17 lines 44:17 membership 18:21 35:11,12 36:5 37:5
27:4,10,16 10:22 11:1,7,11 list 45:19 31:8,8,18 37:16 38:5,9,25
28:4,15,25 12:17 13:6,8,9,19 listened 42:10 men 51:14 39:1,14 40:8,13,15
30:9,18 14:3,4 15:4,18 literal 31:13 mention 34:10 41:12 43:3,4,7
31:1,16,21 17:13 20:8 30:10 little 26:22 27:21 mere 13:1 motivation 4:18,19
33:5,11 38:4 43:12 49:25 livelihood 51:14 middle 11:21 5:19 11:15 12:11
34:8,19 50:17,18,19 51:11 long 17:18 19:9 34:4 military 4:4 16:18 32:2 42:20
35:1,5,8 lap 45:6 42:11 48:13 51:4 17:6 23:15,20,22 motivations 12:10
37:4,9 late 25:20 26:1,24 look 3:24 6:6 9:23 23:23 29:16 49:6 motive 4:10 10:19
39:7,9,24 27:6,7 20:18,18 25:16 Miller 1:17 2:6 15:1 16:6 23:11
41:1,21,24 late-goer 26:4 30:18 44:2 15:24,25 16:3,24 35:10 36:5 38:11
40:10,16 occurs 5:10 48:24 49:2,23 38:19 46:23 47:20 45:1 48:13
office 22:7 28:5 29:2 parties 25:4 place 18:8 45:4 prison 5:12
44:8 officer 9:4 paw 3:19 25:13 plaintiffs 25:14 problem 44:6 45:1
official 3:14 4:24 5:7 26:10 27:17 29:25 plaintiff's 7:24 17:2 procedure 22:1
20:1,4 43:7 37:24 44:16 45:8 play 12:15,20 13:1 procedures 24:6
open 50:14 35:6 40:22 42:4 plurality 13:20 promotion 31:5
oral 1:11 2:2,5,9 3:7 permits 15:18 8:2 10:3 11:21 10:18
35:2 48:23 paid 39:23 Petitioner 1:4,16,20 Price 13:10,18 14:7
paper 15:7 21:7 2:4,8,14 3:8 16:2 14:8 Q
40:12 44:16 regardless 10:1 Restatement 9:24 47:8 48:20 49:3 49:6
regulations 45:12 result 3:12 4:23 5:8 14:11,21 15:10 set 7:23 22:2,5
50:19 51:10 remedies 11:25 12:2 11:17 25:12,21 8:24 9:13,17,21 37:8,10 42:25 45:5
remedy 11:25 12:4 27:3 28:3 35:4,5,8 10:11,16 11:23 47:14 50:7,24 51:4
44:22 report 5:4,20 12:23 ROBERTS 3:3 47:22,24 48:15,18 sharply 13:20
41:3,4,6 26:2 27:11 24:2,23 30:9 31:16 46:16 shoes 7:3
reporting 7:9 31:21 32:1,5 47:15 scour 34:5 show 15:3 17:4,8
19:20 request 47:13 role 10:7 12:20 13:1 second 7:17 16:17 36:11,25 45:15
30:8 34:10 requires 16:18 18:10,23 19:4 51:8 36:14,16 40:25 shown 4:3
46:5,6 49:23 30:11 38:3 51:13 41:7 42:19 shows 29:6,8
reserve 15:21 25:9 ROY 1:21 2:10 Secondly 49:9 side 46:18 51:1
reservists 49:12 rule 9:1,3 11:18,18 Secretary 43:1,2,5 significant 16:15
respect 25:5 39:19 36:7,13,13 48:3,21 43:23 45:12 signs 21:7
34:5 44:12 respondeat 9:17,21 S 49:2 26:5 30:7,11 45:5
48:19,19 9:21 S 2:1 3:1 see 36:23 48:16 single 19:24 20:1
Respondent 1:22 safeguard 51:14,15 semantic 19:7 34:6,6
16:16 20:23 43:15 says 4:2 8:7 9:5 sentencing 5:11 sir 4:12
21:10,12,14 26:3 28:5,18 30:15 23:9 48:13 22:1 26:8,9 28:8
16:22 rest 49:8 39:21 40:24 44:19 29:16 31:9,9 43:20 35:21 41:7,8
46:23 47:2 statement 12:25 substantial 12:20 takes 26:1 28:4 29:1 46:4,14 47:24
41:25 45:13 46:11 13:7,16,24 14:1,5 29:2 48:10,24 49:1,1,17
36:13 23:16,20,22,23 suggesting 11:17 46:18 47:4 Thurston 15:7
42:6 45:16,17 17:10 49:21 tells 20:20 time 8:21 15:21
4:23 5:5 6:20 8:25 superior 9:22 18:24 20:1 34:3 46:23 47:1
50:21 11:11 12:15 13:7 supervisor 5:20,23 termination 10:14 times 28:16
39:8 20:20 21:24 30:14 7:7,15 8:2,4 16:6,9 24:8 34:7 50:18,20
13:5,12 17:9 38:3 41:18 42:21 25:18 26:1,5,11 21:9 32:8 37:15 tort 43:25
19:1 25:16,22 43:6,12,14,15 27:7 34:1 40:22 44:15,15,16,17 Torts 44:3
27:4,10,16 44:13 49:4,8,19 supervisory 5:17 testified 9:9 tort-related 25:10
33:5,11,14 50:6,25 51:9,10,16 6:22 21:14 35:6 testimony 29:3 total 25:4 32:6
34:8 statutes 49:10,20 supplied 33:7 46:22 totally 38:15
36:6,6,12,13 29:2,18 30:2 39:11 supposed 47:10 45:9 50:6,8 trouble 32:6
41:9 39:15,16 40:1 Supreme 1:1,12 thing 7:13 15:3 29:4 true 7:11,12,21,22
stop 35:9 swallowed 38:17 11:23 12:14 13:4 46:12
21:23 story 46:18 48:6 sweeping 9:2,14 14:5 15:7 17:23 try 24:3 45:7
41:10 43:25 stringent 32:7 system 5:11 19:7 23:18,24 trying 49:25
49:18 structure 12:14 24:10,11 26:9,25 tsunami 46:8
25:5,18 26:5 versa 41:13 35:2 37:14 40:5 yield 4:22 5
27:7 28:16 version 7:24 47:11 44:14,14 47:5 5 28:22 29:12
40:22 41:7 47:20 49:24 Z
versions 48:17,19 we've 8:8,11 50:11 Z 34:10 8
21:21 22:16 view 15:17 17:12,15 White's 13:22 1
38:18 31:14 51:6 willful 12:8,13 14:14 1:01 1:13 3:2
violated 10:24 18:19 wish 42:17 27:6
38:2 42:18 15:6 32:20 women 51:15 1991 14:2
word 4:9 26:1
40:7 wandering 39:23 36:24 37:12,16 2
39:22 41:9 39:23 20th 48:7
22:15 wouldn't 5:21 6:2,4 27th 7:25 18:1,16,19
44:17 25:20 27:7 28:12 48:20 4 47:17
49:9 50:13 48:5 50:11 4303 20:21
51:5,7,12 Waterhouse 13:11 wrongful 44:4 4311 14:22
