IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
KEVIN ABBOTT, :
Petitioner : No. 09-479
v. :
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
and
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CARLOS RASHAD GOULD, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-7073
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, October 4, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DAVID L. HORAN, ESQ., Dallas, Texas; on behalf of
Petitioner in No. 09-7073; appointed by this Court.
JAMES E. RYAN, ESQ., Charlottesville, Virginia; on
behalf of Petitioner in No. 09-479.
ROY W. MCLEESE, ESQ., Acting Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DAVID L. HORAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner
in No. 09-7073 4
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JAMES E. RYAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner
in No. 09-479 17
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ROY W. MCLEESE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JAMES E. RYAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner
in No. 09-479 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 09-479, Abbott v. United States, and the
consolidated case, 7073, Gould v. United States.
Mr. Horan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID L. HORAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER IN NO. 09-7073
MR. HORAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The statutory interpretation question here
is what laws trigger section 924(c)(1)(A)'s "except"
clause. Mr. Gould offers an interpretation that gives
meaning and effect to every word and phrase of section
924(c)(1)(A) and that follows this Court's recent
holdings regarding the broad scope of the phrase "any
other provision of law."
The government, on the other hand, advocates
a narrow construction that is not supported by the text
and defends it primarily on the basis that section
924(c) supposedly should always produce the most severe
mandatory minimum sentence for every defendant.
Respectfully, the government's
interpretation is incorrect. Its reading gives no
practical effect to the phrase "any other provision of
law," and the government has not cited and has yet to
even attempt to distinguish this Court's recent
interpretation of the very same phrase, "any other
provision of law," in Republic of Iraq v. Beaty just
last year.
Unlike the government's, Mr. Gould's
interpretation is true to the text; it is true to this
Court's holdings; and it's true to Congress's evident
purpose in 924(c)(1)(A), and in particular in its
"except" clause.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if the text of this is
so clear, how is it that Mr. Gould and Mr. Abbott
propose different interpretations of this provision?
MR. HORAN: Your Honor, as a judicial
matter, I would note that I think our interpretations
are not that far apart. But -
JUSTICE ALITO: But they are not the same,
are they?
MR. HORAN: They are not. And our
interpretation, we believe, is the closest to the actual
text. Our interpretation requires reading no language
into the text. It -
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't there -- isn't it -
there is a missing prepositional phrase in this -- in
the provision that we are looking at?
It says, "except to the extent that a
greater minimum sentence is otherwise provided." For
what? And all of you have to -- are filling in the
prepositional phrase. For an offense of conviction,
for -- for an offense that's part of the --of the
underlying transaction, for a violation of this
particular provision or one that's very similar to it.
There is just no way of getting around the
fact that something has to be read in there. Something
is implied; isn't that right?
MR. HORAN: Your Honor, respectfully, I
believe under our interpretation, it -- there is -- you
do have to understand something to be in there, but we
are not actually reading anything into the text. That
is the reason -- to be sure, the words "any kind of
conviction" are not in there.
However, the most natural reading of the
text, without adding anything to it, is that
924(c)(1)(A) requires a 5-year -- at least a 5-year
minimum sentence, in addition to any sentence for the
predicate drug trafficking or violent crime, except to
the extent that a greater minimum sentence is provided
for the defendant by subsection 924(c) or by any other
provision of law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So that means there would
be no punishment, added punishment, at all for the
possession of the gun; that is, you have the -- the
possession with intent to distribute, no gun involved,
and you get 10 years mandatory minimum for that. That
automatically would wipe out any add-on for the gun,
under your reading.
MR. HORAN: Yes. Yes, Justice Ginsburg.
And to follow on that, it is true that our
interpretation -- we think that the plain text dictates
that if the "except" clause is triggered, the lesser
mandatory minimum sentence under 924(c)(1)(A) shall not
be imposed; that is -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. You keep
saying that you're not reading anything into the statute
under your interpretation, but you are. You are
limiting the -- the "any other provision of law" to any
other provision of law specified in the charging -- in
the counts of conviction, correct?
MR. HORAN: That is the -- yes, Your Honor.
We are recognizing that limitation.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you -- you said to
Justice Alito that you weren't reading anything in, but
you are. You're reading into it that the other
provision of -- of law to refer to counts of conviction
at sentencing, correct?
MR. HORAN: That is correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So why is
that read-in logical, meaning it's giving no extra
punishment for the possession of a firearm?
MR. HORAN: Your Honor, two things -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which was, I think,
Justice Ginsburg's -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. I think you weren't
finished answering my question.
MR. HORAN: If I may -- and I think then -
I think it will help in answering your question, Justice
Sotomayor. That is correct. The only thing I would
say -- the thing I would additionally say, though, is
that there is, under the sentencing guidelines, which
must be applied even now, as -- to provide a recommended
range, there would in each of these instances be a
firearm enhancement that enhances the underlying
predicate offenses' sentence that the defendant would be
facing and also how the -- the district court would
work. So I believe -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that is not
mandatory?
MR. HORAN: That is no longer mandatory.
That is correct.
And then with regard to your question,
Justice -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you're saying that the
gun possession can be accounted for by the judge as a
matter of discretion using guidelines, but there's no
mandatory at all?
MR. HORAN: Yes, Your Honor. That is
correct. There would no longer be a mandatory sentence
for -- or mandatory additional punishment for the
firearm possession.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and I suppose the
prosecution can alter the consequence based on what it
chooses to bring in a single prosecution.
I mean, if it has other -- other
enhancements, it should bring a separate prosecution for
that. So long as it brings it in one suit, you say, in
one prosecution, you get the break. But if -- if the
other enhancement is brought -- has been brought in a
separate prosecution, you don't get it.
MR. HORAN: Justice Scalia, I think that's
correct to an extent. The -- the main exception to
that -- and I think it's a significant one -- is that
the "except" clause would most often be triggered in the
mine run of cases by the predicate drug trafficking or
violent crime that carries with it a greater mandatory
minimum sentence. That is, for double jeopardy
purposes, the same offense as 924(c).
So, in fact, there is a significant
constraint on the prosecution, that it cannot bring a
separate prosecution for 924(c) and its predicate drug
or trafficking -- drug trafficking or violent crime. So
it's a significant limitation on this -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. Yes, I understand
what you're saying.
MR. HORAN: Okay. And Justice Sotomayor, to
return to your question, if I could answer it in two
parts. First -- and I didn't mean to overstate, if I
did -- we are not reading additional language into it.
Our reading is contained within the context and the
actual text that -- that is confined to section 924(c).
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Explain how, because you
just said to Justice Scalia that if the mandatory
minimum is in a separate charging instrument, then it
doesn't affect you at all. It only affects you if the
count is in a count of conviction at sentencing.
MR. HORAN: Yes, Your Honor. That is
correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what in the language
of 924(c) sets forth that limitation?
MR. HORAN: Your Honor, I would say that it
is the words "is otherwise provided" and the context in
which any textual reading -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But -- but there
"otherwise provided by law" could be Federal, State
laws. It could be in the indictment, not in the
indictment. You're proposing that we limit this
somehow, but I want to see what the language is that
you're relying upon to limit it.
MR. HORAN: Your Honor, it is -- first of
all, the statute begins by directing the defendant -- I
mean, directing the district court to "any person." So
they're focusing on the defendant. That is the
offense-defining provision, to be sure, of the sentence.
But the -- throughout the text, it also
directs the district court to take account of minimum
sentences that are provided for other crimes; for
instance, primarily the predicate -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In relationship to what?
Isn't that the government's argument, which is that you
have to say in relationship to something, whether it's
the indictment or, as the government would have it, in
relationship to the possession or carrying of a firearm?
Why isn't that the more natural reading?
MR. HORAN: Your Honor, because that -
because the statute as a whole is essentially
instructions to the district court on how to sentence a
defendant, if at all, for the 924(c)(1)(A) offense.
It directs them to, after considering the
person in front of them, to impose a sentence of 5 years
or less, in addition to the predicate -- any penalty for
the -- the predicate drug trafficking or violent crime,
except to the extent that a greater minimum sentence is
otherwise provided.
The natural reading of that is -- and must
be -- that it is a -- a greater minimum sentence is
provided for that defendant; that is, before the
particular district court with the particular offenses
that he has before him at sentencing.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Don't most crimes of
violence and drug trafficking carry more than a 5-year
sentence?
MR. HORAN: Many of them do, Your Honor. In
fact, those that carry a mandatory minimum sentence
largely carry -- all carry, in fact, 10 years.
There are some -- there are some both
predicate drug trafficking offenses and predicate
violent crimes that carry either no minimum at all or a
mandatory minimum of 5 years or less, and so would not
trigger the except clause.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So let's suppose somebody
commits a rape and a maiming in the same -- in the same
criminal act. You're saying that the prosecution -- and
let's assume it's his third. It's his third violent
crime. So he would get the enhancement as being, you
know, a three-time violent crime loser.
You're saying he could get that enhancement
and the enhancement under this -- under this gun -- he
had a gun at the same time. He can get it if the
prosecution charges rape in one prosecution, for which
he will get the three-time loser enhancement, and then
in a separate prosecution, it charges maiming and the
use of a firearm. Then he gets both enhancements,
right?
MR. HORAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That seems -
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not sure that that's
right. I think that -- that this may well apply to the
crime that is being -- that is being prosecuted where
the crime is defined as a real offense in the world,
with the limitations put on that term by the guidelines.
I would think that would be a natural reading, in which
case you'd look to the conduct of the person.
And if the conduct of the person is such
that it calls for a mandatory minimum of a certain kind,
there we are. And if that exceeds this amount, there we
are. You can't apply it. And if it doesn't, you do
apply it.
MR. HORAN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Have you looked into that?
I mean, that was my reading of it as -- in the most
natural way. The word "crime" is ambiguous. Sometimes
it means words in a statute. Sometimes it means an
affair in the world. And I thought this one probably
meant the affair in the world.
MR. HORAN: Well, in answering your
question, Justice Breyer, in answering Justice Scalia's
question, my assumption was that there were, in fact,
mandatory minimums such that this would play out with
one being greater than the other.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, he's disagreeing with
you. He -- your theory -- you're not reading "crime" to
mean an affair in the world. You're reading it to mean
a particular prosecution for a particular violation of a
statute. Right?
MR. HORAN: No, that's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I read that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: He wants to read it as an
affair in the world, whatever that means.
JUSTICE BREYER: If that's so, then this
gives tremendous power to the prosecutor to decide what
the sentence will be in terms of how he manipulates the
charge. And I thought that probably this, read with the
guidelines, is designed not to -- not to permit that.
It's to minimize the discretion, not to maximize.
MR. HORAN: Your Honor, there will be
circumstances in which a -- the prosecutor and the
government, based on how it makes its charging
decisions, can affect the floor that's created by the
minimum sentence.
It's a different situation than Deal, which
was actually determinant sentences. It's not actually a
circumstance where the government can determine the
punishment itself. That would still be to the district
court.
But we maintain that this is the most
natural reading. And, in fact, for instance, when this
concern came up in Deal, that was to confirm the most
natural reading of the plain text. The government would
actually turn that analysis on its head under these
circumstances.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Justice Breyer is
reading a bit what your co-counsel is advocating, what
Mr. Abbott is arguing?
MR. HORAN: No, Your Honor. I -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No?
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, I don't know if it
makes any difference. I mean, has there ever been such
a case where the prosecutor worked this in such a way
that he would produce this?
Are you aware if any such case ever
happened?
MR. HORAN: No, I'm -- I'm not aware of
that, Your Honor, in part because the "except" clause is
-- there aren't that many instances of the "except"
clause having been actually applied.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And there has never been
the incentive to do so, until we accept your
interpretation. Then there will be means to do so.
MR. HORAN: There may be -- Justice Scalia,
there may be some incentive do so, subject to other
constraints, including the -- the usual practice of
charging, for instance, most offenses as they come under
the transaction in the same indictment. There will be
counterincentives, to be sure.
Your Honors, for the -- in addition to the
fact that our interpretation does not involve, we think,
adding anything into the text that others must, we think
it establishes -- it advances an evident purpose that
Congress had in this, which was to ensure that a
defendant who is convicted under 924(c)(1)(A) receives
some sufficient minimum punishment.
After 1998, the 1998 amendments, section
924(c)(1)(A) was trafficking, in essence, in minimum
sentences. And that's what this is about. So this way,
a defendant will receive a sufficient minimum sentence
by way of 924(c) -- I see that my time is up.
Mr. Abbott will be represented by Mr. Ryan
at this time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. HORAN: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Ryan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES E. RYAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER IN NO. 09-479
MR. RYAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I'd like to spend some time on the second
question in our petition regarding whether other
firearms offenses are included within the scope of the
"except" clause.
But before I do, I'd like to make a couple
of points about the first question, which is common to
our case and to Mr. Gould's.
Justice Sotomayor asked: Why isn't the
government's reading the most natural? And the answer
is pretty simple. The government's reading leaves one
half of the "effect" clause with absolutely no practical
effect.
The government has, in its current
interpretation, suggested that the "except" clause
applies to one provision of law outside of 924(c).
That's 3559(c). And yet with respect to that provision,
the "except" clause does absolutely no work, both for
practical reasons and because of the way 3559(c) is
written.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: 930(c): A person who
kills any person in the course of bringing a firearm
into a Federal facility shall be punished as provided in
sections setting forth minimums for murder and
manslaughter. So it would also have an effect in
930(c), no?
MR. RYAN: It's not clear from the
government's argument, Justice Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I wasn't sure why it
didn't list 930(c), but -
MR. RYAN: As I understand the government's
argument, the sentence that -- the only sentence that
would count outside of 924(c) would be a sentence
specifically for a 924(c)(1)(A) offense -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know, but its brief
does two formulations. It says -
MR. RYAN: Exactly right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- anything that affects
924(c), and then in other places in its brief, it says
the -- the "except" clause refers to any higher minimum
sentence for possessing, using, or carrying a firearm in
relationship to a drug or -- drug offense or a crime of
violence. Those are two different formulations.
MR. RYAN: That's exactly right, Justice
Sotomayor. And if the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm focusing on the
second formulation.
MR. RYAN: Okay. That point actually
demonstrates why the government's justification for this
limitation doesn't hold up. As the government argues at
one point, the reason to read "any other provision of
law" to include only sentences for 924(c)(1)(A) crimes
is because the "except" clause, when it refers to this
subsection, refers only to sentences for section
924(c)(1)(A) offenses.
Yet, that is not the case. As this Court
indicated in O'Brien, 924(c)(1)(B) is a separate
offense. Well, if 924(c)(1)(B) can trigger the "except"
clause, and it's not the same offense as 924(c)(1)(A),
the government's argument about excluding other offenses
that might be separate from 924(c)(1)(A) no longer holds
up.
The other difficulty with the government's
reading, to go back to the practical point, is that if
you apply it just to 3559(c), it can have no effect
because as a practical matter no one can serve a term of
years after successfully completing a life sentence,
which is what's required under 3559(c); and 3559(c)
itself has a provision that, the "notwithstanding"
provision, that makes clear that only the life sentence
should be imposed when 924(c) is the third strike for
purposes of 3559(c).
That, in turn, just leaves future
applications, and there the government's scenario under
which the language that currently has no effect might
have some effect is nothing short of far-fetched. It
would require Congress to amend the sentence of
924(c)(1)(A) outside of 924(c)(1)(A) and not indicate
how those two penalties should interact.
Now, if I could turn to the questions about
a transactional limitation, which we suggest. The point
of suggesting that the "except" clause should be limited
to sentences for the same transaction is suggested by
some of the questions directed to Mr. Gould's counsel.
We think that it's the more natural reading of the
statute in part because of concerns recognized by this
Court in the United States v. Deal, namely that the
statute is not designed and should not be read to give
prosecutors unreviewable discretion as to when the
minimum sentence in 924(c) ought to be applied or not.
It also would preclude the equally odd
situation of a defendant being able to benefit from the
"except" clause in a multi-count indictment when the
defendant has -- faces a higher mandatory minimum
sentence for a completely unrelated -- unrelated charge.
JUSTICE ALITO: Where would we look to find
the definition of a criminal transaction for these
purposes?
MR. RYAN: You could look into 924(c)
itself. Our view is that it would be no different than
the transaction that would give rise to the 924(c)
charge itself and so, for that reason, would necessarily
include the predicate offense or another firearms
offense.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if there were several
924(c) offenses committed during a rather brief period
of time? What if on the same afternoon an individual
engaged in a number of drug trafficking offenses and
during each of those used or carried a firearm? Would
they -- would they be part of the same criminal
transaction?
MR. RYAN: No. Just as different -
different transactions can lead to multiple 924(c)
charges, which is what happened in Deal, that could also
occur here.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you say "different
transactions," but I'm looking for the definition of a
criminal transaction. The criminal law has labored with
this for a long time. It's not a self-defining concept,
is it, a criminal transaction?
MR. RYAN: No, it's not, but -- Your Honor,
but I don't see how it would be any more difficult to
determine the transaction than to look at what would
constitute the 924(c) offense. It would be the same set
of operative facts that could lead to a 924(c) charge
which would count as the transaction.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Ryan, I thought that
you had three positions, and now you're talking about
the second one, which is any greater minimum sentence
arising from the same criminal episode. But I thought
your first position was any greater minimum sentence
applicable to the defendant at sentencing.
MR. RYAN: That is Mr. Gould's position.
Our position is limited to the same transaction. Our
alternative position, which I'd like to turn to now -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Whether charged or
not -
MR. RYAN: Well, the way it would have to
work is that there would have to be a previous
conviction.
Now, if I could turn to the firearms
argument. Our argument here is straightforward.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me, before you go
on. Your last remark -- it has to be a previous
conviction. So why doesn't that leave it in the hands
of the prosecutor whether to bring that conviction, that
other case, prior or subsequent?
MR. RYAN: I -- I misspoke, Justice Scalia.
You're exactly right. It would include uncharged. It
would -- it would prohibit prosecutors from being able
to use charging instruments to determine whether 924(c)
would apply. I was thinking of a particular example,
but in the general case, you're right. I apologize for
that misstatement.
Now, if I could just spend a little bit of
time on our second question. Our argument here is
fairly straightforward and fairly modest, and it relies
on the fact that 924(c) is essentially a firearms
offense. And the punishment provided in the different
paragraphs in 924(c) are primarily about firearms. And
so, in looking to determine the meaning of "any other
provision of law," it is quite natural, as both the
First Circuit recognized and as the government
recognized in Whitley, the Second Circuit case, to
include provisions of law outside of 924(c) that punish
firearms offenses.
Now, to be sure, this particular limitation
is not commanded by the plain language of the statute
and rests, like the government's argument, on context
and purpose. But the difference is that this argument
still gives some effect to the "except" clause. It
would apply, as here, to other firearms offenses outside
of 924(c) like the Armed Career Criminal Act.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, it gives broader
effect. It gives broader effect to the "except" clause,
but the government's argument gives effect to the
"except" clause, doesn't it?
MR. RYAN: It gives no practical -
JUSTICE ALITO: 3559(c), which was enacted
at the same time as this "except" clause, wasn't it, and
makes explicit reference to -- to 924(c)?
MR. RYAN: Two points, Justice Alito.
First, the government's reading has no practical effect.
It leaves the "except" cause with no practical effect.
You could take the "except" clause away, and there would
be no difference in terms of the sentence under 3559(c).
As for the enactment of 3559(c), the
government's argument is actually different. The
government argues that when 3559(c) was amended to
include possession -
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes.
MR. RYAN: -- it was at that point that the
"except" clause also entered into 924(c).
The difficulty with that argument, as we
explain in our brief, is that 3559(c) was already linked
with 924(c) insofar as both addressed use. And because
3559(c) and 924(c) were already linked, and the
"notwithstanding" provision within 3559(c) indicated
that if the 924(c) offense is your third strike, you get
the life sentence, that's it. Well, the fact that
Congress then amended 3559(c) to make another connection
with 924(c) can't possibly explain why there is a sudden
need for the "except" clause.
But the question is an -- is an important
one because it goes to the fact that the government has
offered three different interpretations of the language
in this case. The first -- one of the first was in
Whitley, where it suggested "any other provision of law"
includes other firearms offenses outside of 924(c),
provided that they impose a consecutive sentence. That
argument was rejected for the idea that, instead,
924(c)'s "except" clause actually applies to no existing
provisions of law. And now the Government argues that
it applies to one, 3559(c), and it has come up with a
new theory as to why the "except" clause exists in the
first place.
But that theory doesn't hold up, and the
government's shifting interpretations, if nothing else,
suggest that the government has not hit upon the most
natural reading.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you have offered
three different readings, so one can't say that this
statutory text has a clear meaning, which I think is
your first argument -- that it has a clear meaning. And
yet, we have Mr. Gould's reading and then the two
readings that you've offered us, same episode and same
gun.
MR. RYAN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. We think
our first argument is the most natural and the clearest,
but I take your point. And the only response I would
make is, if shifting interpretations or different
interpretations suggest that at the end of the day the
language is ambiguous and grievously so, under the rule
of lenity, we ought to prevail. So I'm perfectly
comfortable with that conclusion.
If there are no further questions, I'd like
to reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. McLeese.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROY W. MCLEESE
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. MCLEESE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
A district court judge in -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, could I just
ask one simple question, the one I started with earlier,
which was, which of the two statements are you
advocating? That the "except" refers to a provision
that imposes a greater minimum sentence for violating
924(c) explicitly, or are you saying the "except"
clause -- and I'm quoting from your brief, in two
different places -- the "except" clause refers to a
higher minimum sentence for possessing, using a firearm
in relationship to a crime of violence or a drug
offense?
MR. MCLEESE: I don't think there needs to
be an explicit reference. I think that the "except"
clause is triggered by an offense which has a greater
mandatory minimum and which has the same elements as and
is the same offense as a section 924(c) offense.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. If that's
the case, your adversary just said, Mr. Abbott's
attorney just said, that you don't believe that section
924(c)(1)(A) is trumped by 924(c)(1)(B) or by 18 U.S.C.
section 930(c). Is his allegation correct or is he
wrong?
MR. MCLEESE: He is incorrect.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Okay.
MR. MCLEESE: First, with respect to the
internal structure of 924(c), 924(c) as it was amended
in 1998 is a somewhat complex statute. It has a mix of
sentencing enhancements and elements which create
aggravated versions of the offense, but it is all a
single offense for double jeopardy purposes, for
purposes of what punishment to impose. And, therefore,
the "except" clause operates consistent with the
definition I just suggested quite sensibly and tells a
district court judge imposing sentence if a defendant
has brandished a firearm and also discharged it, you
pick one of the 924(c) menu items, they are all a single
offense, and you impose a single mandatory minimum
sentence that is the greatest of those which are
applicable.
Now, with respect to 930(c) -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. So that if
he discharges a firearm, and it says it is a sentence of
not less than 10 years, and he -- and that firearm is
also a short-barrelled rifle with a 10 year minimum,
does he get 10 years, or does he get 20 years?
MR. MCLEESE: He gets 20 years.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How?
MR. MCLEESE: Because there are -- the
"except" clause says look to your defendant, look to see
which -- whether there is any provision of law which
carries with it a greater mandatory minimum which
punishes the section 924(c) offense. In that instance,
there are two. One of them provides for a 7-year
mandatory minimum; one of them provides a 20-year
mandatory minimum. The "except" clause -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if it was a machine
gun, where there's a 30-year minimum, does he get 40 or
30?
MR. MCLEESE: He gets 30. You always get -
the "except" clause operates internally to section
924(c) to tell the district court judge, very helpfully
in light of the complexity of the provision: You impose
one mandatory minimum sentence for each 924(c)
violation, whether aggravated or less aggravated.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's not -- I
can't imagine a single district judge getting that
wrong. To think that, oh, my gosh, here it says 10
years if you discharge the firearms, and here it says 5
years if you have one, which one do I use in a case when
it's discharged?
MR. MCLEESE: That's not -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't need this
provision, the -- your argument can't be that this
language is to make sure the district judge knows in
that case to use the 10-year rather than the 5-year.
MR. MCLEESE: That point, Mr. Chief Justice,
applies in support of our position, because everyone
agrees that the primary function, the first half of the
"except" clause, does exactly that. That's all it does.
It does nothing else. To the extent -- the "except"
clause says "except to the extent a greater minimum
sentence is provided by this subsection," the only
function -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that would include (B).
That would include (B). (B) is part of the same
subsection, isn't it?
MR. MCLEESE: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, you know, I -- I think
what the Chief Justice says is very obvious when you are
just talking about (c)(1)(A), but it isn't obvious to me
that if -- if the firearm is discharged and in addition
it's a machine gun or destructive device, that you'd
only get -- you'd only get the 30 rather than the 30
plus 10.
MR. MCLEESE: Quite so. And the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That isn't obvious to me.
And -- and the "except" clause would -- would handle
that.
MR. MCLEESE: Correct. And it's important
to realize when -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I would have
-- I guess things are obvious to different people. I
would have thought it would be odd to say when there are
increased minimums that the highest minimum applicable
isn't the one that applies.
MR. MCLEESE: I agree with that, but it's
important to realize that another issue that a district
court judge might confront is whether you should
cumulate them. So it should be, as Justice Sotomayor's
question suggests, that if there are several available,
that you get 20 because it's a machine gun and 10
because it was discharged. And from the perspective of
busy district court judges, a provision which says, in
figuring out how to sentence a 924(c) offender, you
don't have to look through this complex statute to
figure out what your sentencing enhancements, do some
double jeopardy analysis; all you need to do is simple
math. You are directed to look to, of all the ones that
are available, the one that is longest of the mandatory
minimums.
The point I was trying to make, though,
Mr. Chief Justice, is all of this, the idea that it
really isn't that critical even to clarify in the first
half of the "except" clause what to do, is consistent
with our position, which is the "except" clause all
together, both internally to section 924(c) and as it
reaches externally, is about clarifying something that,
it may be true, district court judges otherwise would
have been able to figure out, had they done a lot of
analysis. But it makes it much simpler, and the
practical utility of it is to clarify a sentencing
judge's options with respect to a statute that had been
made much more complex.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But your main -- the
meat of your argument focuses on 3559(c), right? There
is this significant provision out there that does
provide a greater mandatory minimum. And I just don't
see, as a practical matter, why people would worry about
that. Under 3559(c), you get life. And you're saying,
well, they put in the "except" clause to be sure that
the judge would add another 5 years at the end of a life
sentence.
MR. MCLEESE: Mr. Chief Justice, I think the
effect of the "except" clause is the opposite, which is
it makes sure that a judge imposes only life and does
not add additional sentences.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, exactly. Yes,
I'm sorry.
MR. MCLEESE: And I agree, from the
perspective of a defendant, that may not be most
consequential. But this is a provision which, taken as
a whole, was clarifying, not just externally to 924(c),
but also internally, what district court judges should
do with a complex menu -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Well, just so
I make sure I understand, the basic point you're making
is that there are some things under your reading that
this deals with. One is the internal point, and we can
disagree as to whether that's necessary or not, and the
other is 3559(c), where it seems to me it doesn't make
any difference whether you're in there for life or life
and the additional 5 years.
MR. MCLEESE: I agree, it's not practically
significant to a defendant, although sentences of life
plus additional terms or consecutive life are not at all
uncommon in the code. But it is of significance to
district court judges, who are trying to figure out what
sentence to impose. And this provision -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What do you do with
930(c)? Don't leave without answering my question.
MR. MCLEESE: Yes. I do not interpret
930(c) as subject to the "except" clause. I believe it
is a separate offense with different elements, and under
the double jeopardy analysis that would apply, it is
possible -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But your answer to me
was you read the "except" clause as applying to any
higher minimum sentence for possessing, using, or
carrying a firearm in relationship to a drug offense or
crime of violence. Isn't killing a person a crime of
violence?
MR. MCLEESE: Yes. Although 930(c) does not
-
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And isn't the bringing
of a firearm into a Federal facility the carrying of a
firearm?
MR. MCLEESE: Yes. Although 930(c) does not
require the killing of a person, it extends to
attempts -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is 930(c)? Can you
tell me where it is in the -
MR. MCLEESE: I don't believe -- it is
referred to only in Petitioner Abbott's brief at a page
number I don't recall. It's not one of the provisions
that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, but I'm still trying
to understand your position, which is -- I read what you
said to me the "except" clause means, and I'm applying
it to 930(c), and I couldn't figure out why you didn't
list it.
MR. MCLEESE: Because 930(c) does not
require an actual killing of a person. It extends to
conspiracy and attempt. And, therefore, one can violate
930(c) without violating 924(c) and vice versa. And,
therefore -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How?
MR. MCLEESE: By conspiring -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: A person who kills any
person -
MR. MCLEESE: -- or by attempting to do so.
So 930(c) has a broader reach because of these vicarious
and inchoate forms of liability. So a defendant could
be convicted separately of 930(c) and of 924(c). They
are not the same offense for double jeopardy -
JUSTICE BREYER: So there are two possible
readings now of the "except" clause where it says -- the
words are this subsection doesn't apply where a
mandatory -- where any other provision of law sets forth
a higher mandatory. Now, one possible reading, which is
yours, is what this means is that, judge, where you are
operating under that provision you just mentioned, and
you're going to -- the guy has committed two serious
924(c) things and so he is entitled to life -- this is
just what the Chief Justice said -- this is done to
remind the judge don't give him life plus 25 years,
because it would be 25 years under this statute, not 5.
That's one possible reading.
The other possible reading is, judge, where,
in fact, you have a pretty -- you have the underlying
drug offense that's going to get you up into the 30s and
it's -- you know, in the guidelines, it's going to be
probably 10, 5 years, or whatever it is. You have a
pretty high drug offense already. And now we give him 5
extra years, say, for having a gun under this, unless
he's already gotten, say, a mandatory minimum of 7
years.
And if he's already gotten the mandatory
minimum of 7 years, here's what's happening: Judge,
turn to the guidelines, and the guidelines will tell you
to add 3 or 4 extra years. So in one -- that -- those
are the two possible readings.
Now, the first reading to me makes very
little sense. The second reading to me says, yes, this
is serving a purpose. It's once you're sure this guy
has to go to jail for 5, 6, 7, maybe 10 or 20 years for
sure, extra amounts are controlled by the guidelines,
which is administered by a judge.
Now, if you just came across that for the
first time, which would you think was most probable.
MR. MCLEESE: Well, I think when you place
this in the context of the 1998 amendments that enacted
the "except" clause, it is quite clear that the former
is more plausible. And the reason I say that, there are
really five features of the 1998 amendments that
illustrate that the "except" clause is not to be read as
eliminating any sentence for a section 924(c) offense,
but rather is clarifying which sentence to impose.
The first is that the 1998 amendments,
setting aside the "except" clause for a moment, in every
respect substantially increased the scope and severity
of section 924(c). It changed what had been mandatory
sentences to mandatory all the way to life. It -- it
responded to this Court's decision in Bailey by
increasing the substantive scope of the provision. It
increased the -- it created increased mandatory minimums
for 7-year and 10-year offenses.
So it would be odd to think that in the
second half of a presumptively narrow exception clause,
Congress at the same time ran in the direct opposite
direction and had a substantial rollback of pre-existing
section 924(c) sentencing provisions. And that's -- to
be clear, at the time of the 1998 amendments, these
Petitioners would have been subject to the mandatory
minimum sentences that they received. They would have
been subject to 10 years in one of the cases for the
drug offense and 5 additional years mandatory and
consecutive under 924(c). For the other, they would
have -- he would have been subject to 15 years for being
a felon in possession and an armed career criminal and 5
additional under 924(c).
So one of the features that is key is
putting this in the context of the 1998 amendments,
which were in every respect -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait, but it -- but it
does -- it does subject them to less, at least with
respect to those -- those enhancements set forth within
the subsection itself.
MR. MCLEESE: That is true, but that is not
a rollback of pre-existing provisions. It's a way of -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why?
MR. MCLEESE: Because none of -- in prior
924(c) law, there wasn't a body of law that would have
given anybody who would get the benefit of the "except"
clause under 924(c) a higher sentence. What -- all the
"except" clause does is it makes clear under this more
complicated scheme that when we are increasing these
provisions, a 7 or a 10, you shouldn't telescope them
all inside 924(c). You shouldn't add them all together;
you pick the highest.
And so it -- the "except" clause is not a
rollback. It is a way of accommodating and giving clear
direction to the complexity of the newly enacted
provision. And -
JUSTICE BREYER: When -- when did Congress
pass the statute that they amended in 1998? The one
with -- you're saying -- I mean, it's a good point. You
have a point, that this would make it more lenient, the
interpretation. But the "it" was passed when?
MR. MCLEESE: Well, section 924(c) in its
original form I think was passed in the 1960s.
JUSTICE BREYER: So that's way before the
guidelines. So what they are trying to do now is the -
in 1998, is they're trying to -- see, in 1998 what
they're trying to do is take some of these old
provisions and reconcile them with this new system that
has come along. So I agree you have a point there.
But it -- it does make a certain amount of
sense, because what it is saying is, in these cases
where you have a whoppo mandatory minimum anyway, so
you're sure he's got it; now, the additional amount will
be controlled by the guidelines, which are subject to
not much discretion. They are pretty close to mandatory
minimums, but there's a little wiggle room.
MR. MCLEESE: On the general approach of
Congress under 924(c), it also bears note that in the
last 25 years Congress has amended section 924(c) six
times, and setting aside for a moment the "except"
clause, in all of those amendments Congress has
uniformly expanded its scope or increased the severity
of sentences. So the "except" clause would be the sole
provision in which Congress rolled back section 924(c).
And there are several other features of the 1998
amendment that make clear that that is not what Congress
did.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you answer
Mr. Ryan's argument that you can read it this way, you
can read it that way; therefore, he wins under the rule
of lenity?
MR. MCLEESE: Well, this Court's cases make
clear that the rule of lenity comes into play at the end
of the analysis only if there is grievous ambiguity
after all the considerations of statutory construction
have been considered. We haven't yet discussed all of
them, and I think when all of them are discussed, there
is no grievous ambiguity. In fact, the reading that we
suggest is the only reasonable reading, all factors
considered.
And if I can turn back to a couple of other
features of the 1998 amendments, another feature is
the -- the title of the act itself, which is an Act to
Throttle the Criminal Use of Guns. And, again, it's
just inconsistent with the provision that has these
features and has that act, that it would be a
substantial important decrease in the mandatory minimum
sentences applicable to a large class of -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's a
difficult -- you're saying, because Congress wanted to
get tough on the people who use firearms in this
provision, every ambiguous clause should be read in a
way that makes it tougher on the criminal defendant?
MR. MCLEESE: I don't -- that would push the
argument too far. I think it is highly relevant to
construing this -- the statute as a whole, that that was
the clear overall function of that amendment.
Now, there are two other features of the
1998 amendment, which are, it did as has been previously
noted -- also, the only other thing that Congress did in
the 1998 amendment, other than modifying section 924(c),
is it made a corresponding change in section 3559(c) to
-- to correspond. So we know that section 3559(c) was
front and center in Congress's mind as it was enacting
the 1998 amendments. And it is very natural, when
Congress is creating a more complex statute and giving
district court judges guidance about which mandatory
minimums to select under that statute, to mention and
have language that accommodates the fact that there
is -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, with respect to
3559(c) they were in fact being more lenient, not
stricter, right?
MR. MCLEESE: No, I think they were
clarifying -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you said
earlier that the purpose of this, what it does, is it
makes sure that you don't add 5 extra years on the
people who are sentenced to life.
MR. MCLEESE: I think it clarifies the
relationship, and, in fact, arguably it could have
clarified the situation in a way that would have been
beneficial to defendants. And the reason I say that is
when Congress enacted the first half of the "except"
clause, which said pick one and only one mandatory
minimum and impose it -- we're talking internally to
section 924(c) -- if it hadn't mentioned 3559(c), there
could have been the idea that if there -- if Congress
didn't direct the same approach with respect to 3559(c),
there's an implication that in fact you should impose
both.
And so what it really was doing was
clarifying what would have been unclear. And it is,
again, only half of a presumptively narrow provision
which is just clarifying the relationship -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which is right.
You're saying when you get life, or you get 5, just
serve life; don't serve the extra 5.
MR. MCLEESE: Yes. Yes, but it's not saying
that to defendants. It's saying that to busy district
court judges, who just need to know in a simple, clear
way what am I supposed to -- what sentence am I supposed
to -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's the only thing
that that additional language which says "otherwise
provided by this subsection or by any other provision of
law" -- why didn't they just mention 3559(c)?
MR. MCLEESE: Well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the only thing it
covers, that tiny little thing, which has no effect at
all, except for the benefit of the busy district judges,
you say. I -- I find that quite implausible.
MR. MCLEESE: Well, remember that it was -
although it is not hugely consequential to defendants,
it was a provision that Congress was directly
considering then.
But there is another function, which is it
creates a default rule for future similar provisions
like 3559(c). And so there -- and had, again -- so it's
not limited to its function with respect to 3559(c); it
also serves, as Congress often provides, a default rule.
And so, again, there is a fifth feature of
the 1998 amendments for those of whom this is concern,
which is that the legislative history of the provision
strongly corroborates our interpretation.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, it's not strongly. The
-- what is it an example? You're saying the other -
this thing also serves the purpose that perhaps someday
Congress will pass a new statute, a totally different
one, and a busy district judge might think that he
should add the 5 or 25 years from this provision on to
whatever sentence this hypothetical new statute
provides, but this will tell him not to do so. Did you
have anything in mind?
MR. MCLEESE: Well, I -- there are -- there
are other provisions that, like 924(j), which do provide
sentences for 924(c) offenses that are codified
elsewhere in the code. And with respect to other
offenses, that's also quite common. So there's nothing
implausible about the idea that -
JUSTICE BREYER: I take it in those other
offenses there are other things in the code, and the odd
thing about this one is there is no other thing in the
code except the one we've been discussing. And so I
just wondered if there -- was there at the time anybody
thinking of adding some new thing that this might have
been applicable to? Or have you come across anything?
I take it your answer is no.
MR. MCLEESE: I'm not aware that -- that
Congress had some particular pending legislation in
mind. My point more generally, though, is that it is
quite common for Congress to provide penalties for
offense A in a different section, and so creating a
default rule is a perfectly reasonable thing for
Congress to have done while it was clarifying the
internal relationships among the various 924(c)
provisions and the provision in 3559(c), which is front
and center in front of it.
With respect to the legislative history, the
"except" clause language was proposed by Senator Jesse
Helms. In the legislative history of the provision,
there is nowhere any comment by anyone suggesting that
anyone understood it as rolling back pre-existing
section 924(c) penalties or as reflecting a new policy
different from the fundamental policy of section 924(c),
which has always been defendants who commit drug
trafficking offenses or violent crimes and who involve a
weapon will get an additional -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there any
evidence in the legislative history that the reason they
put this in was to ensure that people who got life would
not get life plus 5 years?
MR. MCLEESE: There's no explicit reference
to that. But that is, I think, a -- a good inference
from the fact that all of the other explanations are far
more implausible.
And there is something -- there are two
things which support that inference more specifically,
one of which is, again, that Congress did have in front
of it section 3559(c) and was amending it.
The second is that the sole reference
anywhere in the legislative history to the "except"
clause is in the testimony of a witness at a hearing,
and what that witness said about it was that it will
prevent confusion with other provisions.
And so there is, I think, a -- a strong
indication -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's one witness at a
hearing? At a hearing? And you really think that the
rest of the Congress knew about that hearing?
MR. MCLEESE: I don't. My point is really
more the negative, which is if the "except" clause, in
the second half of an exception that is in its first
part intended to clarify, was instead a major policy
shift from the pre-existing policy of section 924(c),
additional mandatory consecutive sentences, and instead
a shift over to sentences which we will try to adjust or
ameliorate in light of other -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no. It's a shift
over to the sentencing guidelines, which say a person
like this one will receive an extra 3 or 4 or 5 years
depending on the circumstances. Will receive it, just
like a mandatory. Unless, of course, it is an unusual
case. That's what it's a shift to.
MR. MCLEESE: Two responses -
JUSTICE BREYER: Am I wrong?
MR. MCLEESE: Two responses, Justice Breyer,
one of which is that Congress has amended 924(c) both
before and after this provision, and it's clear that
Congress is not shifting away from a mandatory minimum
regime to a regime that -- where the guidelines are
relied upon to provide the minimum sentence that
Congress requires.
And it is a shift not just to a guidelines
regime, because if this a major policy shift into a
different world, there -- it poses a question of
statutory construction as well, not just about
guidelines.
And that's the -- the next topic, which
is -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait. I mean, the
guidelines can't be, as Justice Breyer said, just like a
mandatory. They can't be, can they?
JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't say that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, you did. I quoted you.
MR. MCLEESE: They could not have been, even
in the pre-Booker world. Certainly, in the post-Booker
world, they cannot. But the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Advisory.
MR. MCLEESE: But -- but the point is that
Congress -- if Congress was shifting in the "except"
clause, there's a question: What's the nature of that
policy shift?
If you were going to try to reduce 924(c)
sentences to accommodate sentences on other provisions
of law, instead of just making them an add-on always,
then there's a question: What policy should you pick?
Should you pick any other sentence the defendant is
facing at this sentencing? Should you pick any other
sentence arising out of this transaction?
That's not a guidelines issue. That's a
question of what is the policy reflected by the statute?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You should pick any
other violent crime or drug trafficking offense that
already provides a higher minimum.
MR. RYAN: That -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, it seems to me
the perfectly natural reading is to say, look, we are
providing some minimum sentences when this happens, when
this is the violent crime and you use a gun, but if you
have already got a higher sentence for the violent
crime, then this doesn't apply.
MR. MCLEESE: That is a possible policy, to
be sure, but one thing -- it's certainly not the only
reasonable policy. You could focus on the transaction
or you could focus on what the defendant is facing at
the sentencing. All those are among the policy options
you would consider.
And what's interesting is that Petitioners
can't agree among those policy options. And they can't
agree among those policy options because section 924(c)
has no guidance about it. And the reason section 924(c)
has no guidance about it is because Congress wasn't
making that policy choice at all. Congress was simply
clarifying how to implement the preexisting policy under
section 924(c), which is always impose, for a section
924(c) violator, an additional separate mandatory
minimum sentence. But here is advice about how to do
that. Here is advice about how to do that internal to
section 924(c). Here is advice about how to do that
external to 924(c) under 3559(c) and with a default rule
for other similar provisions. That's the -- the modest
objective that Congress was attempting to achieve. And
as everyone agrees -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. For other
provisions anywhere in the code? I mean, regardless of
whether those provisions are being prosecuted in this
particular indictment?
I mean, you're -
MR. MCLEESE: No -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying that the
other side has to say, well, it's only those that are in
this -- in this particular criminal transaction, or only
those in the particular indictment.
Do you escape that necessity?
MR. MCLEESE: I think we do, and the reason
we do is because, in our view, this provision operates
only when you're talking about prosecution for the same
offense in double jeopardy purposes. And so it's not
possible for -- under our submission, for the Government
to prosecute somebody for one of these variants of
section 924(c) and then come back again later and
prosecute again and manipulate the overall structure of
sentences, because they are the same offense.
If you move outside that into things that
are not the same offense for double jeopardy purposes,
then the prospects do open up for irrational patterns of
outcome based on the order in which things are
prosecuted and, in addition, irrational patterns of the
mandatory minimums based on -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how is your reading
different than Mr. Abbott's?
MR. MCLEESE: Mr. Abbott has two readings,
and our reading differs from each of them. The first of
Mr. Abbott's readings is transactional in nature. Ours
is focused on the section 924(c) offense itself.
The second of our readings is -- the second
of Mr. Abbott's readings is focused on a firearm, just
the fact that a firearm is involved. And, again, ours
is focused on the use of a firearm in a way that
constitutes the section 924(c) offense. So those are
the differences.
But if I could just point out the other
anomalies, there are two other anomalies that we have
not yet touched upon. One of them is that Petitioners'
submissions create anomalous patterns of floors of
statutory minimums, as we've discussed in the briefs.
If a defendant under Petitioners'
submission, principal submission, has committed a drug
offense that carries a 5-year mandatory minimum sentence
and brandishes a firearm, it is -- carrying a 7-year
minimum, the floor is 12 years. If that defendant's
drug offense is more aggravated and carries a greater
sentence so that there's a 10-year mandatory minimum,
the overall mandatory minimum, under Petitioners'
submission, reduces to 10.
And there is the further anomaly that for
offenses that are different, Petitioners' submission is
that the defendant will end up, although adjudicated
guilty of a section 924(c) offense, with no sentence
whatsoever. There will be a free-floating adjudication
of guilt. And because the defendant, let's say, is a
felon in possession and is sentenced under the Armed
Career Criminal Act, when the judge goes to sentencing,
the judge, on Petitioners' view, says: I will give you
15 years under the Armed Career Criminal Act; that
triggers the "except" clause, and therefore, I impose no
sentence whatsoever under section 924(c). That also is
an anomaly.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: As Justice -- as
Justice Breyer has pointed out, he can take that into
account in figuring out what sentence he would want to
impose beyond the greater minimum.
MR. MCLEESE: That is true. My point about
the anomaly is just that it is very strange, to my
knowledge unheard of, to have a judge go to sentencing
and have a series of adjudications and to tell the judge
as to one of them it's not the greater or lesser
included offense of another; you don't even need to
impose a sentence on that -- on that adjudication. The
backdrop basic assumption is, on each of the
adjudications, you impose a sentence.
Now, that's not true if offenses are greater
or lesser or are the same offense, for double jeopardy
purposes. But under Petitioners' submission, that is
true with respect to offenses like being a felon in
possession of a firearm and being someone who violated
924(c) that are different offenses in double jeopardy
law and have always been given separate judgments,
separate punishments.
If the Court has no further questions, we
would request that the judgments below be affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. McLeese.
Mr. Ryan, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES E. RYAN
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER IN NO. 09-479
MR. RYAN: I'd like to make two points on
rebuttal.
There has been a great deal of discussion
about the general purpose of 924(c), but as this Court
has indicated, the best indication of a statute's
purpose is the statute's language, and although the
government argues that the sole purpose of 924(c) was to
enhance punishment for defendants, the "except" clause
belies that simplistic assertion of the purpose. The
"except" clause actually mediates the punishment that is
provided in 924(c).
The government's reading, at the end of the
day, wants to rely on purpose in order to give no effect
to the "except" clause. The idea that 3559(c) is an
instruction to busy district court judges, even putting
aside the impossibility of serving an additional
sentence after completing a life sentence, doesn't hold
up, because the government never disputes the fact that
3559(c) begins with the statement, "Notwithstanding any
other provision of law."
So the busy district court judge never needs
to turn to the "except" clause in 924(c)(1)(A) to know
that you impose a life sentence when the third strike is
a 924(c).
JUSTICE ALITO: Whenever Congress uses a
phrase like that, "notwithstanding any other provision
of law," does that mean that Congress must think that
there is some provision of law that falls within that?
MR. RYAN: Possibly, yes, and that -- here,
the other provision of law would be 924(c), and so the
point would be -
JUSTICE ALITO: Doesn't Congress commonly do
that to make sure that something covers any existing
statute there might be that would fall within that,
without necessarily saying, well, there are two of
them -- if there are two, maybe there are three? Going
through the entire code to find out how many there might
be, or if there is any?
MR. RYAN: Yes, Justice Alito, and that's
consistent with my point, is that -
JUSTICE ALITO: But it's not consistent with
your main argument about the "except" clause, is it?
MR. RYAN: Well, yes, it is, because the
"except" clause would also apply to any other provision
of law.
JUSTICE ALITO: No, but your argument is the
"except" clause has to have some pretty substantial
effect, or otherwise the "any other provision of law"
part of it -- otherwise, they wouldn't have put it in.
MR. RYAN: Oh, I apologize. I misunderstood
your -- your question.
The "notwithstanding any other provision of
law," in the context of 924(c), would not have any
effect if the "except" clause was considered first. But
3559(c) applies to many other triggering offenses, and
so with regards to those -- and the government has not
suggested that 3559(c) has -- has no effect.
The last point I'd like to make is that
there's no doubt that regardless of one's view about
mandatory minimum sentences as a matter of policy, no
one doubts that Congress has the authority, if it
chooses to exercise it, to stack one mandatory minimum
sentence on top of another.
But as this Court's cases make clear,
Congress, under the rule of lenity, needs to make that
choice clear. And if nothing else, the government's
shifting views indicate that Congress has not exercised
that choice clearly in this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
17:6 51:17 advances 16:22 40:23 55:23 56:2 best 54:11
51:16,19,22 advice 50:7,8,9 anomalous 52:5 armed 24:11 38:11 bit 15:21 23:18
advocates 4:18 53:9 aside 37:16 40:9 brandished 28:17
27:11 34:8 40:17 45:12 asked 17:22 break 9:16
affect 10:18 15:7 14:9,10 34:2 assume 13:2 14:10,20,23 15:20
agree 31:13 33:6,20 56:6 50:12 brief 18:23 19:2
52:23,25 24:12,17,20 25:4 45:11 available 31:17 32:1 23:9
alter 9:11 21:3 brings 9:15
39:5 42:17
56:11 back 20:2 40:13 35:18
41:16 20:3 23:15 24:10 backdrop 53:15 busy 31:20 43:14,25
ameliorate 47:12 34:6 35:24 49:16 Bailey 37:20 44:19 54:21 55:2
30:23 51:13
39:12 40:8 appointed 1:23 basic 33:13 53:15 c 3:1 4:1 30:22
approach 40:6 43:3 basis 4:20 calls 13:23
38:8,12
43:19 46:7
50:6 54:22
26:1 54:13 begins 11:9 54:25 CARLOS 1:10
38:4,14 argument 1:19 3:2,6 3:4,8,12,15 4:8 carries 9:24 29:8
41:6 42:4 3:10,13 4:3,7 17:12 27:4 54:6 52:9,12
11:18 17:11 18:16 belies 54:15 carry 12:14,17,18
23:19 24:7,8,14 8:20 28:1 34:4,24 carrying 11:21 19:4
17:21 19:19 clause 4:13 5:10 completing 20:5 conspiracy 35:10 Court's 4:15 5:2,8
24:2 7:10 9:22 12:23 54:23 conspiring 35:14 37:20 40:21 56:20
27:25 30:1,7 16:7,9 17:18,25 complex 28:9 31:22 constitute 22:12 covers 43:24 55:14
56:24 57:1,2 18:3,6 19:3,16,22 32:15 33:11 42:5 constitutes 51:25 co-counsel 15:21
40:21 56:20 24:15,18,23 25:6 39:9 constraints 16:15 created 15:7 37:22
32:22 33:1 34:4,9 conclusion 26:23 context 10:13,25 14:5,15 19:5 27:17
42:24 45:24 46:22 confront 31:15 convicted 16:24 12:21 19:15 46:6
55:23,25 56:3,10 20:15 25:14 38:1 7:18,24 10:19 23:3 24:11 38:11 41:8
16:16 23:14 20:8 26:11,12 37:9 40:15 41:14,24 correct 7:18,25 8:1 52:25
27:1,5 29:22 47:23 56:20,22 45:19 46:18 47:4 28:3 31:6 current 18:2
31:8 clearest 26:17 47:22,24 48:2,20 correspond 42:2 currently 20:13
33:4,12 clearly 56:24 48:20 50:2,3,12 corresponding 42:1
41:13 42:10 close 40:4 55:6,8,13 56:17,21 corroborates 44:14 D
43:10 46:8 closest 5:20 56:23 counsel 17:8 20:22 D 4:1
53:4 54:2 code 33:23 45:2,6,8 Congress's 5:8 42:3 27:1,8 56:25 Dallas 1:22
50:15 55:18 connection 25:14 count 10:19,19 DAVID 1:22 3:3 4:7
come 16:16 26:2 33:22 38:9 47:10 counterincentives deal 15:9,16 20:25
47:16 comment 46:1 considerations court 1:1,19,23 4:10 decisions 15:7
42:14 43:7,9 45:16 consistent 28:14 33:24 42:6 43:15 12:10 16:24 17:4
50:4 commonly 55:13 32:6 55:21,22 53:25 54:10,21 21:5,7 22:20 28:16
33:7,21 35:19 discharge 29:25 either 12:21 expanded 40:11 figuring 31:21 53:6
49:2,20 52:7 discharged 28:17 elements 27:22 explain 10:15 25:8 filling 6:3
30:2,23 31:19 28:10 34:5 25:15 find 21:9 44:1 55:18
44:3 46:5 discretion 9:4 15:3 enacted 24:17 37:8 explicit 24:19 27:20 firearm 8:4,17 9:9
21:2 40:4 39:9 42:23 46:12 11:21 13:11 18:10
28:15 disputes 54:24 enhancement 8:17 external 50:10 53:21
23:14,24 43:14,25 44:19 entitled 36:5 facing 8:19 49:3,20 30:10 32:5 36:24
33:18 31:24 34:6 35:21 ESQ 1:22,24 2:1 3:3 25:18 36:11 41:2 floor 15:7 52:11
21:13,25 22:1 doubts 56:17 essentially 11:24 factors 41:3 focused 51:20,22,24
23:22 25:1,19 drug 6:21 9:23 10:4 23:21 facts 22:13 focuses 32:17
27:15 10:5 12:5,14,20 establishes 16:22 fairly 23:20,20 focusing 11:11 19:9
34:5 44:18 19:5,5 21:21 27:17 evidence 46:9 fall 55:15 follow 7:8
46:4 48:5 34:11 36:12,15 evident 5:8 16:22 falls 55:9 follows 4:15
52:17 53:22 38:8 46:5 49:8 exactly 18:25 19:7 far 5:16 41:19 46:14 form 39:17
17:11 54:5 37:25 47:7 Federal 11:3 18:11 forth 10:23 18:12
great 54:9 high 36:15 33:25 37:14 42:25 interesting 49:23
14:13 22:17 27:16 34:10 36:1 53:14,16 55:4 45:20 50:8
54:10 greatest 28:20 history 44:13 45:23 impossibility 54:22 interpretation 4:11
9:2 12:13 guidance 42:6 50:1 54:23 23:12 24:3 25:3 39:15 44:14
26:9,16 50:2 holdings 4:16 5:8 30:16,17 interpretations 5:13
guidelines 8:14 9:4 holds 19:24 included 17:17 5:15 25:19 26:6,19
54:19 39:19 40:3 47:14 10:20,24 11:8,23 including 16:15 involved 7:3 51:23
guilt 52:21 Honors 16:19 increased 31:11 issue 31:14 49:5
13:7 26:15 29:14 7:7,19 8:1,5,10,23 39:3 J
55:17 Guns 41:8 13:13 14:2,9,19 25:11 54:11 17:11 54:5
32:6 37:25 42:23 50:17,23 judge 9:3 27:7 28:16
22:21 26:13 hand 4:18 idea 25:24 32:4 43:2 inference 46:13,17 31:15 32:23 33:2
11:20 15:6,11 hands 23:8 illustrate 37:12 insofar 25:9 44:19 52:23,24
18:2 19:13 happened 16:5 22:2 imagine 29:23 instance 11:16 53:10,11 55:2
25:2,18 26:1 happening 36:20 implausible 44:1 15:15 16:16 29:9 judges 31:20 32:10
51:4 54:13,24 happens 49:13 45:4 46:15 instances 8:16 16:8 33:10,24 42:6
head 15:18 implement 50:4 instruction 54:21 43:15,25 54:21
11:18 17:23,24 hearing 46:22 47:3 implied 6:10 instrument 10:17 judgments 53:23
19:12,23 47:3,4 important 25:17 instruments 23:14 54:1
24:7,14,21 Helms 45:25 31:6,14 41:11 intended 47:8 judicial 5:14
6:25 knowledge 53:10 limitation 7:20 10:6 37:22 38:5,8 40:1 mind 42:3 44:23
8:2,6 knows 30:6 10:23 19:13 20:19 40:4 41:11 42:6,24 45:15
9:1,2 24:5 47:10,17,24 48:12 mine 9:23
10:7,9,15 L limitations 13:19 50:6 51:14 52:9,13 minimize 15:3
11:2,17 L 1:22 3:3 4:7 limited 20:20 22:22 52:14 56:16,18 minimum 4:22 6:2
13:14,15 labored 22:6 44:9 manipulate 51:7 6:20,22 7:4,11
language 5:21 10:12 limiting 7:16 manipulates 14:25 9:25 10:17 11:14
15:20,20 10:22 11:6 20:13 linked 25:8,10 manslaughter 18:13 12:6,9,17,21,22
16:10,13 24:6 25:19 26:21 list 18:18 35:7 math 31:25 13:23 15:8 16:25
18:9 30:6 42:8 43:19 little 23:18 36:25 matter 1:18 5:15 9:4 17:2,4 19:3 21:3,7
19:1,7 45:24 54:12 40:5 43:24 20:4 32:20 56:16 22:17,19 27:12,16
21:9,18 22:4 large 41:12 logical 8:3 57:3 27:22 28:19 29:1,8
23:6,11 largely 12:18 long 9:15 22:7 maximize 15:3 29:11,12,14,20
25:4 law 4:17 5:1,4 6:24 longer 8:23 9:7 McLeese 2:1 3:11 30:13 31:11 32:19
27:1,5,8 7:16,17,24 11:3 19:24 27:2,3,5,19 28:5,7 34:10 36:17,20
28:6,23 29:4 18:4 19:15 22:6 longest 32:1 29:3,5,16 30:3,8 38:6 40:1 41:11
30:4,8,16 23:25 24:3 25:21 look 13:21 21:9,12 30:19 31:2,6,13 42:25 47:24 48:1
31:3,8,16 26:1 29:7 35:25 22:11 29:6,6 31:22 32:25 33:6,20 34:3 49:9,13 50:7 52:9
33:4,12 38:24,24 43:21 31:25 49:12 34:14,19,24 35:8 52:11,13,14 53:7
35:3 48:25 53:23 55:1,8 looked 14:3 35:14,17 37:7 56:16,18
36:6 55:9,11 56:1,4,9 looking 5:25 22:5 38:20,23 39:16 minimums 14:12
39:11,18 laws 4:12 11:4 23:24 40:6,21 41:18 18:12 31:11 32:2
41:13 42:10 lead 22:1,13 loser 13:4,9 42:13,19 43:13,22 37:22 40:5 42:7
43:10,18,23 leave 23:8 34:2 lot 32:11 44:2,24 45:13 51:14 52:6
45:5 46:8 leaves 17:24 20:11 46:12 47:5,19,21 minutes 54:4
24:22 M 48:15,19 49:17 missing 5:24
legislation 45:14 machine 29:13 50:19,25 51:17 misspoke 23:11
50:14,20 legislative 44:13 30:24 31:18 53:8 54:3 misstatement 23:17
53:4,4,5 45:23,25 46:9,21 maiming 12:25 mean 9:13 10:11 misunderstood 56:6
55:6,13,20,22 lenient 39:14 42:11 13:10 11:10 14:4,16,16 mix 28:9
lenity 26:22 40:20 main 9:20 32:16 15:25 16:1 39:13 modest 23:20 50:11
30:20 36:13 light 29:19 47:12 32:19 35:25 36:1 mentioned 36:3 43:1 43:8
13:20 14:5 36:12,15 37:13 overstate 10:11 pick 28:18 39:6 24:21,22 32:13,20
17:23 38:8 45:17 49:8 O'Brien 19:20 42:24 49:1,2,3,7 practically 33:20
23:25 26:8 51:3,8,10,20,25 place 26:4 37:7 practice 16:15
42:4 49:12 52:9,12,19 53:13 P places 19:2 27:15 preclude 21:4
12:20 16:16 17:17 paragraphs 23:23 play 14:12 40:22 12:4,5,20,20 21:16
43:15 53:13 46:6 52:17 53:17 particular 5:9 6:7 46:11 presumptively
offense-defining 23:15 24:5 45:14 20:19 25:5 26:18 pretty 17:24 36:11
26:14 pass 39:12 44:18 47:5 48:19 52:2 prevent 46:24
45:10 oh 29:24 44:15 patterns 51:11,13 56:14 previously 41:23
48:14 56:6 52:5 pointed 53:5 pre-Booker 48:16
25:11 54:25 ones 31:25 people 31:9 32:20 49:19,21,24,25 primary 30:10
56:8 one's 56:15 41:15 42:18 46:10 50:3,4 56:16 principal 52:8
options 32:14 49:21 34:12,20 35:9,15 27:16 34:10 propose 5:13
45:6 order 51:12 54:19 petition 17:16 possible 34:7 35:22 prosecuted 13:17
13:18 18:22 outcome 51:12 17:12 34:25 54:6 possibly 25:15 9:14,16,18 10:3,4
21:16 outside 18:4,21 Petitioners 38:5 55:10 13:1,8,8,10 14:17
22:12 23:22 20:16 24:3,10 49:23 52:4,7,14,17 post-Booker 48:16 51:2
27:18,21,23 25:22 51:9 52:24 53:19 power 14:24 prosecutor 14:24
28:11,12,19 overall 41:21 51:7 phrase 4:14,16,25 practical 4:25 17:25 15:5 16:2 23:9
21:11 28:12,13 49:12 51:15,18 regime 47:25,25 19:7 23:12,16
45:16 48:1 put 13:19 32:22 35:23 36:23 51:17 relationship 11:17 rise 21:14
11:3,15 12:7 putting 38:14 54:21 read-in 8:3 27:17 34:11 42:20 17:10 27:1 29:22
18:11 23:22 p.m 57:2 real 13:18 43:9 30:4 31:8 32:16
30:14 43:20 realize 31:7,14 relationships 45:20 33:4,12 41:13
Q really 32:5 37:11 relevant 41:19 42:10,15 43:10
49:9 8:25 10:10 14:10 reason 6:15 19:14 relies 23:20 54:2 56:25
6:7,24 31:17 34:2 48:5,21 reasonable 41:3 remainder 26:25 rolled 40:13
11:12 49:1,6 56:7 45:18 49:19 remaining 54:4 rolling 46:2
19:14 20:7 questions 20:18,22 reasons 18:7 remark 23:7 room 40:5
23:25 25:11 26:24 53:25 rebuttal 3:13 26:25 remember 44:2 ROY 2:1 3:11 27:3
27:11 29:7 quite 23:25 28:15 54:5,8 remind 36:7 rule 26:21 40:19,22
30:5 31:20 31:2 37:9 44:1 recall 35:1 represented 17:6 44:7,10 45:18
33:8,25 45:3,16 receive 17:4 47:15 Republic 5:4 50:10 56:21
36:3 37:21 quoted 48:14 47:16 request 54:1 run 9:23
40:13 41:9 quoting 27:14 received 38:6 require 20:15 34:20 Ryan 1:24 3:7,14
43:8,20 44:4 receives 16:24 35:9 17:6,10,11,13
45:21,25 recognized 20:24 required 20:6 18:15,19,25 19:7
51:1 55:1,7 24:1,2 requires 5:21 6:19 19:11 21:12,25
56:4,8 recognizing 7:20 48:2 22:9,15,21 23:1,11
38:3,21 39:4 reconcile 39:22 respect 18:5 28:7,22 26:16 49:10 54:4,5
44:7,25 reduce 48:23 32:14 37:17 38:15 54:7 55:10,20,24
46:24 48:24 reduces 52:15 38:18 42:10 43:3 56:6
refer 7:24 44:9 45:2,23 53:20 Ryan's 40:18
19:14 21:1 S
35:4 37:12 S 3:1 4:1
41:16 saying 7:14 9:2 10:8
9:8 15:12 27:11,15 3:12 27:4
7:6,14,22 reflected 49:6 39:13,25 41:14
23:22 28:13 response 26:18
10:12,13 11:1 reflecting 46:3 43:11,13,14 44:16
responses 47:19,21
12:8 13:20 50:20 55:16
15:15 says 6:1 18:24 19:2
17:23,24 28:24 29:6,24,25
37:1 42:16 17:16 return 10:10
24:21 26:8 30:13,21 31:20
54:10,12,13 regardless 50:15 rifle 29:1
33:14 36:1,9 35:23 36:25 43:19
56:15 right 6:10 8:2 13:12
21:3,8 22:17,19 48:3,4,22 stack 56:18 suggested 18:3
12:24 13:14 27:12,16 28:16,20 47:24 48:20 56:23 State 11:3 56:13
16:10,13 28:24 29:20 30:14 short 20:14 statement 54:25 suggesting 20:20
30:16,20 31:21 32:24 33:25 short-barrelled 29:1 statements 27:10 46:1
34:22 38:16 34:10 37:13,14 side 50:21 States 1:1,6,13,19 suggests 31:17
43:18,23 39:1 43:16 44:21 significance 33:23 4:4,5 20:25 suit 9:15
48:10,14,18 48:1 49:2,4,15 significant 9:21 10:2 statute 7:14 11:9,24 support 30:9 46:17
50:7 52:9,13,19 10:6 32:18 33:21 14:6,18 20:24 21:1 supported 4:19
40:11 sentences 11:15 simpler 32:12 statute's 54:11,12 sure 6:15 11:12
23:19 24:2 19:17 20:21 33:3 simply 50:3 40:24 48:6 52:6 24:5 30:6 32:22
37:25 46:20 33:21 37:19 38:6 single 9:12 28:12,18 straightforward 33:2,13 37:1,3
51:21,21 40:12 41:12 45:1 28:19 29:23 23:5,20 40:2 42:17 49:18
17:1 19:17 49:13 51:8 56:16 42:21 stricter 42:12 system 39:22
28:1,3 29:9 sentencing 7:25 six 40:8 strike 20:9 25:12
32:8 37:13 8:14 10:19 12:12 sole 40:12 46:20 55:4 T
38:3 39:16 22:20 28:10 31:23 54:13 strong 46:25 T 3:1,1
41:25 42:1 32:13 38:3 47:14 Solicitor 2:1 strongly 44:14,15 take 11:14 24:23
43:1 45:17 49:3,21 52:23 somebody 12:24 structure 28:8 51:7 26:18 39:21 45:5
47:9 53:10 51:5 subject 16:14 34:4 45:12 53:5
50:1,5,5,9 separate 9:14,18 someday 44:17 38:5,7,10,17 40:3 taken 33:8
52:19 10:4,17 13:10 somewhat 28:9 submission 51:4 talking 22:16 30:22
19:20,24 34:5 50:6 sorry 7:13 28:23 52:8,8,15,17 53:19 42:25 51:2
32:20 39:20 series 53:11 8:2,6,12 10:9,15 subsection 6:23 36:21 44:22 53:11
7:11 setting 18:12 37:16 35:3,13,15 51:15 substantive 37:21 text 4:19 5:7,11,21
9:7,25 11:12 40:9 Sotomayor's 31:16 successfully 20:5 5:22 6:14,18 7:9
12:3,6,9,15 severe 4:21 specifically 18:22 sudden 25:15 10:14 11:13 15:17
14:25 15:8 severity 37:17 46:17 sufficient 16:25 17:4 16:21 26:11
18:20,20,21 40:11 specified 7:17 suggest 20:19 26:7 textual 11:1
20:5,8,15 shift 47:9,11,13,18 spend 17:15 23:18 26:20 41:3 Thank 17:8,9 27:1
56:25 17:2 21:21 46:6 understood 46:2 W 2:1 3:11 27:3 X
44:17 16:17 20:21 21:10 United 1:1,6,13,19 wanted 41:14 Y
49:18 21:14,24 22:6,8,11 4:4,5 20:25 wants 14:21 54:19 year 5:5 29:1
36:5 45:6 50:22 unreviewable 21:2 2:2 20:5 28:25 29:2,2
51:9,12 transactional 20:19 unusual 47:17 wasn't 18:17 24:18 29:3,25 30:1 32:23
9:19,21 transactions 22:1,5 25:9 30:1,7 41:8 way 6:8 14:5 16:2 36:18,20,22 37:2
16:20,21 tremendous 14:24 41:15 49:14 51:24 17:3,5 18:7 23:1 38:7,8,10 40:8
26:11,16 trigger 4:12 12:23 uses 55:6 37:19 38:21 39:8 42:17 44:20 46:11
29:24 19:21 usual 16:15 39:18 40:18,19 47:15 52:11,25
32:25 37:6,7 triggered 7:10 9:22 utility 32:13 41:17 42:21 43:16
39:17 41:1 27:21 U.S.C 28:2 51:24 0
42:13,19 triggering 56:11 weapon 46:7 09-479 1:4,25 3:9,16
46:13,25 triggers 53:1 V weren't 7:22 8:8 4:4 17:12 54:6
50:25 55:8 true 5:7,7,8 7:8 v 1:5,12 4:4,5 5:4 We'll 4:3 09-7073 1:12,23 3:5
53:17,20 variants 51:5 we've 45:8 52:6
55:4 try 47:11 48:23 53:2
31:10 35:3 39:19,20,21 whoppo 40:1
turn 15:18 20:11,18 wiggle 40:5
56:15 10-year 30:7 37:23
55:17 41:5 55:3 wipe 7:5
22:7 23:19 29:10 35:22 36:4 word 4:14 14:5
15 38:10 52:25
26:25 37:6 36:23 41:22 46:16 words 6:15 10:25
45:9 47:19,21 51:17 14:6 35:24
18 28:2
12:5,14,20 35:4
1:16
36:7,8 40:8 44:20 924(c) 4:21 6:23
3:12 10:1,4,14,23 17:5
19:2 20:9
21:3,12,14,19 22:1
36:22 47:15 54:4 22:12,13 23:14,21
29:15,16 30:25 23:23 24:3,11,19
25:6,9,10,12,15
36:12 25:22 27:13,23
29:14 28:8,8,18 29:9,18
18:5,7 20:3 29:20 31:21 32:8
24:17,24 33:9 35:11,20 36:5
25:2,8,10,11 37:13,18 38:3,9,12
26:2 32:17 38:24 39:1,5,16
33:17 42:1,2 40:7,8,13 41:25
43:1,3,21 43:1 45:1,20 46:3
45:21 46:19 46:4 47:9,22 48:23
54:20,25 49:25 50:1,5,6,9
50:10 51:6,20,25
53:2,22
55:5
1:16 3:5 36:22 55:11 56:9
924(c)'s 25:25
29:14 924(c)(1)(A) 4:15
5:9 6:19 7:11 12:1
12:3,22 29:25 16:24 17:2 18:22
33:19 36:8 19:15,18,22,24
37:2 38:8 20:16,16 28:2 55:3
42:17 43:11 924(c)(1)(A)'s 4:12
44:20 46:11 924(c)(1)(B) 19:20
19:21 28:2
6:19,19 924(j) 44:25
30:7 52:9 930(c) 18:9,14,18
3:16 28:3,22 34:2,4,14
35:6,8,11
35:18,20
37:2
36:17,20 37:2 39:4
29:10 37:23
4:5
