IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
VIRGINIA OFFICE FOR PROTECTION :
AND ADVOCACY, :
Petitioner : No. 09-529
v. :
JAMES W. STEWART, III, :
COMMISSIONER, VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT :
OF BEHAVIORAL HEALTH AND :
DEVELOPMENTAL SERVICES, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, December 1, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:01 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
SETH M. GALANTER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
GINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioner.
EARLE DUNCAN GETCHELL, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,
Richmond, Virginia; on behalf of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
SETH M. GALANTER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as
amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner 18
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
EARLE DUNCAN GETCHELL, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
SETH M. GALANTER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:01 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 09-529, the Virginia Office for Protection
and Advocacy v. Stewart.
Mr. Galanter.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH M. GALANTER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GALANTER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Virginia Office for Protection and
Advocacy, known as "VOPA," seeks to enforce its Federal
statutory right to inspect and copy records that are in
the possession of State officials who run State-operated
hospitals.
Respondents acknowledged below that if
Petitioner were a private entity, Ex parte Young would
permit this suit. VOPA's status as a State entity does
not change the Ex parte Young analysis because it
imposed neither a greater burden on the treasury nor the
dignity of the State. The only issue to be resolved by
the Federal court is who has the correct reading of
Federal law about the records access issue. It -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, if this
were a private suit, let's say Ford Motor Company has
two subsidiaries, Ford East and Ford West. They get
into a dispute. Ford West sues Ford East. No Federal
court would entertain that action, would it?
MR. GALANTER: Well, Your Honor, if I could
clarify. First of all, there would have to be a
question of Federal law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. They think --
Ford West thinks Ford East is discriminating on the
basis of race.
MR. GALANTER: It would have to -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That adversely
affects their reputation, too, so they sue them.
MR. GALANTER: I -- I think that inquiry
goes to the question of adversity and standing, the
Article III question. And this case doesn't involve
that because VOPA is independent of the entity that it's
trying to -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. It's
independent -- right -- it's independent from what?
MR. GALANTER: It's independent from the
executive branch. It's independent from the Respondents
it's trying to sue.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes -
MR. GALANTER: And it is -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- but is it
independent from the State? Is that what the statute
says?
MR. GALANTER: The -- the statute requires
independence. The Federal statute requires that VOPA be
independent. But it's independent here because its
commission -- only a third of it is appointed by the
governor, and none of the members of the commission that
run VOPA can be removed except for cause.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You say on page 27
of your brief, the blue brief, that there's no big deal
here with respect to State sovereignty because
ultimately the sovereign retains the authority to
dissolve the State agency plaintiff if the State
believes the litigation is too onerous.
MR. GALANTER: That -- that's correct. That
is, the sovereign, the Commonwealth, could repeal the
law that enacted VOPA, just as in this Court's cases,
ICC v. United States, Congress could have removed -
eliminated the ICC.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's a good -- a
good cite for your proposition, but arguably in those
cases, the ICC is really not the real party in interest.
The real party in interest is the beneficiary of the ICC
ruling.
MR. GALANTER: Well, I believe this Court
has continually held that independent agencies and other
Federal agencies can litigate, the cases involving the
Federal Labor Relations Board. And this Court has
allowed, for example, suits about licenses for Federal
dams where one agency wants to build a Federal dam and
another is -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To get -- to get
back to my question, you -- no court would entertain
Ford West against Ford East?
MR. GALANTER: If -- if that's right, and I
think it is if they're part of the same -- if they're
subsidiaries of one corporation and aren't separate.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, why is that true?
If they're separate corporate entities, what legal rule
would stop a separate corporate entity from suing
another? Is there a -- if they're part of the same
company, I think that's a different issue. If they are
the same company, that's a different issue, and just a
different branch or a different office.
MR. GALANTER: I -- I had understood that to
be the Chief Justice's hypothetical. They were -- they
were divisions of a single legal entity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not divisions;
separate corporate entities that happened to be wholly
owned by the same parent.
MR. GALANTER: I do believe then that there
could be litigation between them, but ultimately there
wouldn't be.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I would have
thought that would become an advisory opinion. Ford has
an internal dispute, basically, and your -- in that
hypothetical, one of the entities would be asking the
Federal court to resolve it. Ford can decide at the end
of the day how it wants to resolve it. If Ford West
wins and Ford East loses, Ford can say, all right, this
is how we're going to do it regardless of what the
Federal court says.
MR. GALANTER: Well, that's true that after
the litigation is over, one of the parties may, you
know, be able to work around the law. That's true, in
fact, in every Federal Spending Clause statute where
you're dealing with prospective relief. The State is
always free to say, okay, if this is what we have to do,
we -- we opt out of the program.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the State here
is free to dissolve one of the -- one of the parties to
the case. That's -- that's a little different.
MR. GALANTER: Well, it's the Commonwealth
that's free to dissolve one of the parties to the case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right, State,
Commonwealth.
MR. GALANTER: But I know. I meant, as
opposed to the -- I wasn't making -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh.
MR. GALANTER: But the Respondents here are
State officials, and even the Respondents' agency has no
power over IPAS. And on the day-to-day basis, even the
governor and the attorney general have no control over
what IPAS -- excuse me -- VOPA does. IPAS is a similar
case out of Indiana.
But what's critical here is that, as we
stand here today, the Commonwealth has vested a Federal
right in VOPA, and neither the attorney general nor the
governor of Virginia can stop VOPA from exercising that
right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm -- I'm not
quite sure what the premise of your argument is. You
seem to be arguing that the independence of the State
agency is what makes this particular entity capable of
suing. Yet, in your brief, you rely on Verizon's simple
test, which says if you're asserting a Federal claim,
you can sue and you're not -- and you're looking for
prospective injunctive relief, you can sue the State.
That general rule wouldn't look at who's suing. That
was part of your argument. Yet, now you're arguing the
independence of the agency. Which is your position?
MR. GALANTER: I -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And if it is the one
about the State's independence, how do you articulate
why that becomes important or not? What's the legal
significance of that vis-à-vis this case and any ones
moving forward?
MR. GALANTER: If I may, I -- there are -
there are three issues that are intertwined here.
First, the issue that I was talking about with the Chief
Justice regarding the Article III adversity that you
need for standing. That's where the independence is
relevant.
The second question is the one that we
petitioned on, which is the Eleventh Amendment issue,
and there we would suggest that the simple
straightforward inquiry of Verizon is relevant.
And then there's a third portion which the
court of appeals seemed to rely on, which is that -
that the notion that the State has a Federal right at
all was -- against another part of the State and its
officials was incongruous. That, if anything, would be
a Tenth Amendment concern and is resolved here because
it was the Commonwealth itself that made the voluntary
decision to vest these Federal rights in independent
State agencies.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, let's assume -- and
-- and I'm not sure what the situation is in -- in the
Commonwealth. We have held that the States don't have
to have the same notion of separation of powers that the
Federal Government does. In the Federal Government, we
allow independent regulatory agencies separate from the
President. Let's assume that Virginia has a system in
which the governor is indeed in charge of the entire -
the entire executive branch. Do you know whether that's
the case? I don't know.
MR. GALANTER: It -- it is not the case in
Virginia or in 49 of the 50 States.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Well, if it were and
if Congress offered money to the State and the only way
the State could get it would be to abandon its system of
separation of powers and to allow an agency of the State
which would normally be under the direction of the
governor to go riding off on its own and -- and sue the
governor, do you think there wouldn't be any -- any
problem about -- about the Federal Government doing
that?
MR. GALANTER: I -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Requiring the State to in
effect alter its -- its governmental structure in order
to obtain the Federal money?
MR. GALANTER: I do think there might be a
problem, first requiring it. And I think there might
even be a problem if it were a Spending Clause statute
alone. But if -- I realize that's the -- but that's not
an Eleventh Amendment problem. That's a question about
whether -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure.
MR. GALANTER: And here the only question,
because -- the only question addressed below and the
only question -- this is all on an interlocutory appeal
just on the Eleventh Amendment -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Got you.
MR. GALANTER: -- is whether we can sue
other officials in the State to bring them into
prospective compliance with the Federal law. And as -
as I said, though -- and this statute authorizes the
State, if it takes the money, to designate either a
public or a private entity as its protection and
advocacy system; that is, they could have vested these
Federal rights in a nonprofit corporation -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, right, but
that makes all the difference in the world because they
made the choice of saying this is going to be one of us,
the State. And as far as what issue is before the
Court, I would suppose the Article III question is a
jurisdictional one that we have to address before
reaching the Eleventh Amendment question.
MR. GALANTER: I -- I think that they're
both sufficiently jurisdictional that you could reach
them in -- in -- you wouldn't have to reach Article III
before the Eleventh Amendment. But I do think that the
Article III question -- I mean, this Court in its FOIA
decisions such as, you know, Public Citizen v.
Department of Justice, has said that Congress can create
a right to access to information -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Galanter, if we can
go back to get what this -- this entity was. The
Federal legislation gives the States a choice. They can
do it either in a State agency or a private entity. The
specification that the State agency has to be
independent is in the Federal statute, isn't it?
MR. GALANTER: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's not -- it's not up
to the State to want to put it into an independent
regulatory agency. And is it -- and this VOPA -- is
that an entity that was created just to carry out this
Federal program or was it a pre-existing agency?
MR. GALANTER: It -- it and its predecessors
were created just to implement this program.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And does it do anything
else other than administer the Federal program?
MR. GALANTER: It has a few responsibilities
that the State has given it under State law in addition,
but its primary function -- and at this point all its
budget comes from the Federal Government, and it serves
primarily this Federal function to go into public and
private institutions to observe and make sure that abuse
and neglect is not occurring there.
And that is, obviously, why these records
were requested, because the statute gives the protection
and advocacy service a right to access records of people
in the institutions to make sure that they are not being
mistreated and that the investigations and the
oversights by the State are taking place and are being
done correctly.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, following up on
Justice Scalia's question to you, his question in fact
is in part what happened here. Virginia at some point
did require every State agency to seek the permission of
its attorney general, is it, to sue? And the government
said that's not independent enough, and if you want the
money, you've got to make VOPA eligible to sue without
that permission; is that correct?
MR. GALANTER: That -- that is correct. And
then the legislature of the Commonwealth went in and
gave VOPA independent litigating authority, independent
of the attorney general.
On the Eleventh Amendment point, which is,
again -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, just -- I know
you're anxious to get to that, but -
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- do you know -- do
you know of any other situation where one party to a
Federal court action can dissolve the other one in the
middle of the case? I mean, if VOPA files a discovery
request with the State and they think it is, as you put
it in your brief, too onerous, the State can say: Guess
what, the case is over, you're dissolved.
MR. GALANTER: Well, I -- again, I would go
back to the Federal analogy, that in all this litigation
with the ICC or -- well, with the Federal labor
relations authorities, with the licensing authority of
the Department of Interior for dams that -- that, you
know, the TVA might want to build, that Congress can
always eliminate these agencies, but while they are
still in existence -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess, in Nixon v. United
States, the President could have dismissed the attorney
general, but we allowed the suit to go forward. I never
did understand that.
(Laughter.)
MR. GALANTER: Well, I think -- I think it's
because you look at standing in terms of the current
reality, and in Nixon, for example, the attorney general
had promulgated a regulation saying he couldn't dismiss
the special prosecutor except for cause.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But there are a number of
instances in the States where constitutional officers
have their separate autonomy, their separate
responsibilities. And it seems to me to follow
inevitably from your position that the attorney general
of State A could sue the governor of State A saying the
governor is being sued in an Ex parte Young capacity
because the governor is not following Federal law. I
think that's just inevitable from your -- from you
position, and that seems to me a vast extension of Ex
parte Young. It's true, I think, that we've never said
that the identity of -- or the permissibility of an Ex
parte Young suit depends on the identity of the
plaintiff, but don't we have to say that here if we're
going to allow the States to structure their -- their
own governments as they choose?
MR. GALANTER: Well, I would say that --
well, I would say two things. First, the idea that -
you have to accept, as I think Respondents do in this
case, that the Virginia Office of Protection and
Advocacy legitimately holds a Federal right. I can't --
I am hard pressed, and -- and Respondents and their
amici were hard pressed, to come up with any example
where an attorney general would hold a Federal right
against another part of the State. And particularly
here -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, he would tell the
governor that the governor is not giving adequate
protection to prison inmates or State employees, that
the -- that the governor's own personnel regulations are
incorrect, and he would sue under Ex parte Young.
MR. GALANTER: If the Commonwealth -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: There are all kinds of
Federal rights.
MR. GALANTER: Well, but they're generally
not the -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And the question is: Can
one State entity enforce it against another State entity
in a Federal court?
MR. GALANTER: The -- there aren't a lot of
Federal rights that State officials have against other
officials. Here, this is a right --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but that's -- but
under -- under your theory there would be, because under
Ex parte Young, the whole point of it is that a -- a
person can allege that this fictional private individual
who's really a governmental individual is violating a
Federal right. That's the whole point of it.
MR. GALANTER: Violating the plaintiff's
Federal right. That was the only point I was making.
But, yes, if there are Federal disputes at issue, a
Federal forum is appropriate, but -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All State attorney
generals have the -- have the obligation to enforce
Federal rights for all of the citizens of their States.
MR. GALANTER: And if they have that right
under -- power under State law, then -- and they
exercise that power and elect to be in Federal court to
litigate Federal issues, that is not barred by the
Eleventh Amendment, we would submit.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that -- that
issue -- I know your white line is on.
You -- you indicated that there are certain
cases in which dams can be authorized by the Federal
Government, I think, contrary to State laws, with
municipalities. Do you know what those are? There's an
Iowa case; there's also a Washington case you were
talking about.
MR. GALANTER: I believe the case here I'm
thinking of comes out of Seattle. But -- but I think -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you have the citation?
MR. GALANTER: I don't have it with me. I
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I've been looking for it.
Okay.
MR. GALANTER: But -- but the point I was
making is that sometimes one Federal agency needs
permission from another Federal agency to build
something, and there would be a litigable controversy
under Article III, and that's the only point I was
trying to make.
If I may, if there are no more questions,
I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Anders.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GINGER D. ANDERS
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MS. ANDERS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
VOPA has properly invoked Ex parte Young to
enforce Respondents' obligations under the DD and PAIMI
Acts here, because VOPA's complaint satisfies the
straightforward inquiries set forth in Verizon.
We don't think that it's necessary to go
into State sovereignty interests to determine whether Ex
parte Young should be allowed here, but even if the
Court were to do that, I think it's unquestionable that
there are no State sovereignty interests here.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think -- do you think
the Spending Clause allows the Federal Government to
condition the receipt of Federal funds on a State's
agreement to change the structure of State government?
MS. ANDERS: I think it does, so long as -
as that requirement is reasonably related to the
government's interest in the funds and in -- in the
objective of its regulation. Now, there's -
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose the government said
if you want Medicaid funds, the State agency that
administers the Medicaid program must be headed by a
person who has a 20-year term of office and is removable
only for gross dereliction of duty. Would -- can they
do that? Can the Federal Government do that? Can
Congress do it?
MS. ANDERS: I think it could do that, so
long as that's not independently unconstitutional. I
think the State always has the opportunity to decide not
to opt into the scheme, and I think that's very
important here because the sole aspect of this suit that
Virginia challenges, which is the fact that VOPA is a
State agency, is the result of two sovereign choices
that the State made here.
The first choice was to opt into the DD and
PAIMI Act programs, to take the Federal funds, to create
a P and A system that has Federal rights of access to
which both State and private facilities are subject.
And the second choice that Virginia made was to
establish a State agency P and A system here. It could
have established a private agency if it were concerned
about -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Anders, I understand
that most States that -- that are taking advantage of
this program do it through a private entity, not a
State; is that -- is that right?
MS. ANDERS: That's correct. There are
eight public P and A systems.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can EPA sue the Army
Corps of Engineers for violating the Clean Water Act?
MS. ANDERS: Well, I think you would have an
Article III problem if there isn't sufficient adversity.
If the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, very adverse.
EPA wants clean water, and the Army Corps of Engineers
wants to, you know, dredge the water in a way that
contributes to pollution.
MS. ANDERS: Well, they're both -- the heads
of both agencies are, in that situation, I think,
subject to removal by the same people, and so in that
situation, you would have an Article III problem. But
we don't have that problem here, because VOPA is
independent under State law, and -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you agree with
the Petitioners that Virginia can dissolve VOPA if it
finds the litigation too onerous?
MS. ANDERS: I think that that would not
happen in practice, because if Virginia were to dissolve
VOPA, it would be out of compliance with the Federal
scheme, and so it would lose its -- it would lose its
Federal funding at that point. And so I don't think
that's a situation that's going to arise, but -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If -- if it happened
to arise, do you think that they can -- do you agree
with the Petitioners that they can do it?
MS. ANDERS: I think they -- I think they
could do it, but I think this -- this Court has
previously adjudicated cases where, in theory, the
government could have changed the case midstream.
U.S. v. Nixon is an example of that; the ICC case as
well. And I think also in the Lassen case, this Court
said that it could adjudicate a suit between two State
agencies because the agencies were sufficiently
independent from each other. They weren't subject to
removal by the same head of government.
So I think, while you might have an Article
III problem in some situations, you don't have that
problem here because of VOPA's independence.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you be a little
bit more specific for me on what you mean about an
Article III problem? Justice Kennedy was concerned
about State attorney generals willy-nilly suing -- or
not willy-nilly -- suing governors to comply with
Federal law.
Why do you think it won't happen, and what
are the legal impediments to that occurring?
MS. ANDERS: I think there are several. I
think, first, you would have to have a Federal right
that the AG would be able to enforce. He would have to
have a way to get into Federal court. He would have to
have a theory of standing, and I think this is not a
situation that has arisen at this point. There are no
examples of this. And so I think -
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought -- this I'm
confused about. I would think you would have to have a
State which has a law that permits the attorney general
to sue the governor. Wouldn't you?
MS. ANDERS: If the -
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, if the State law is
the attorney general can't sue the governor, that's the
end of it, isn't it? Or is it -
MS. ANDERS: If that were sufficient to get
into Federal court for Article III purposes. I think
there might be some situations in which the attorney
general -
JUSTICE BREYER: No. Suppose the State law
is the governor of the State cannot bring a lawsuit
against the attorney general, and vice versa. Okay?
That's the State law. Now, under those circumstances,
can either bring a lawsuit on a Federal right in Federal
court?
MS. ANDERS: There may be some circumstances
like that one, in which the State AG's use of Ex parte
Young would raise special sovereignty interests that
would counsel against -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but I want just a yes
or no answer. In your opinion, can an attorney general,
where the State law says, black letter law, attorney
general can never sue the governor; he's fired instantly
if he tries. That's the law in this State, okay? Now,
can that individual come into Federal court and sue on
an Ex parte Young theory suing the governor?
MS. ANDERS: I think he could -
JUSTICE BREYER: He could?
MS. ANDERS: -- under this Court's decision
in Verizon. I think that if -- there might be certain
extreme circumstances where -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I don't -- I think
that is a problem, and is that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, I -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- what we're saying here?
JUSTICE SCALIA: That can't be. How can
that be? He has no power as attorney general to do
that. It has nothing to do with -- with Ex parte Young.
It has to do with his power as attorney general.
MS. ANDERS: Right, and as this Court said
in Lassen, though, I think often the Federal court
doesn't look behind State officers' version of -
JUSTICE BREYER: But my -- excuse me -- I
thought -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But your -- your answer -
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose I'm right about
this and you can't do it. You can't. You can't -- the
Federal Government cannot tell a State how to organize
itself. If it wants to have an attorney general that
can never bring a lawsuit, that's up to the State,
unless it's a due process problem.
Now, suppose I believe that. Now, do you
lose this case?
MS. ANDERS: No, I don't think so, because
the same special sovereignty interests are not present
here, because under the Spending Clause, Virginia had
the choice to opt into this scheme.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Doesn't -- doesn't the
Federal statute say, Virginia, if you want to do this
through a State agency, that State agency has to be an
independent agency and have the authority to sue?
MS. ANDERS: That's correct, and -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are you sure that
the governor cannot remove the members of VOPA? I know
it says VOPA has to be independent of any State agency,
and the governor appoints one-third. Can the governor
remove the members of this Virginia agency?
MS. ANDERS: As a matter of State law, I
don't think he can. And if he were to try to do that,
that would be a compliance problem from HHS's
perspective. And so Virginia might at that point -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What would it not -
what would it not comply with? I just don't know. I'm
just looking at the provision where you say it's
independent, and it says independent of any State
agency. You said the governor may not appoint more than
one-third. I just wonder if there's a prohibition on
him removing.
MS. ANDERS: Well, there's definitely a
prohibition on him removing board members of VOPA or
officials of VOPA as a result of VOPA's actions in
litigation. I think -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where is that?
MS. ANDERS: Well, the provision -- well,
the requirement that VOPA have full authority to pursue
legal remedies to ensure the protection of individuals.
This is on page 52a of the petition appendix. That's
the PAIMI law. And I think that actually did happen in
Virginia, that HHS came in -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the VOPA
officials are engaged in corruption or illegal conduct
or, you know, extracurricular activity that brings
discredit upon the -- the governor has no power to say
that, you're a Virginia official and you're -- you know,
whatever -- breaking Virginia law, for example? And -
MS. ANDERS: Well, under Virginia law, I
think that VOPA's officials are subject to for-cause
removal provisions. So they can actually be removed
judicially through for-cause proceedings. And from our
perspective, that's consistent with VOPA's independence
and its full authority to pursue remedies because that
type of for-cause removal wouldn't be on the basis of
VOPA's actions in litigation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Going back to your
exchange with Justice Breyer, I assume that you could
stand by your answer and say the attorney general could
sue the governor, because he's not suing the governor in
his official capacity. He has a Federal right under Ex
parte Young to sue the governor as an individual. It's
a fiction; we all know that. But that's the way it
works, and this is a Federal right.
MS. ANDERS: Well -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think that's your
position.
MS. ANDERS: I think that's right, that
under Verizon no more is required. VOPA has a Federal
right here.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Of course -- of course,
Verizon was a private party.
MS. ANDERS: Verizon was a private party,
but -
JUSTICE BREYER: Suing in his capacity as
attorney general and under his -- that's the plaintiff,
not the defendant. And he has no right to bring that
suit, because -- it's not that he doesn't have a right;
it's that he doesn't have authority. He's not a person
that can do this kind of thing -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I really lost you. I
thought Ex parte Young applied to defendants.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, right. Exactly.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't think Ex parte
Young allows -- allows an attorney general to sue -- to
sue as a plaintiff in his personal capacity. Am I wrong
about that?
MS. ANDERS: Well, I think that you might
have State sovereignty interests at that point -
JUSTICE BREYER: That's your position.
MS. ANDERS: -- that would prevent a Federal
court from -- from adjudicating the suit, but there's no
question that those interests aren't present here
because Virginia has chosen to create a State agency in
order to enforce these Federal rights. When it opted
into the scheme -
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm with Justice Scalia on
this. Well, I'll pass to the other side.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Anders.
Mr. Getchell.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EARLE DUNCAN GETCHELL, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. GETCHELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The dignity interest of a sovereign is
impaired if it is pitted against itself in the courts of
another sovereign without its consent. And I would
take -
JUSTICE SCALIA: A dignified sovereign
should not agree to the deal.
(Laughter.)
MR. GETCHELL: Well, let's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you know, the
Commonwealth had the choice. It had two choices, as -
as counsel for the Government said. It could either
turn down the money or, if it's not dignified enough to
do that, it could take the money and establish a private
organization to do this work instead of a State agency.
So, what -- you know, what complaint do you have here?
MR. GETCHELL: Well, let me -- let me first
say that the choice issue raises some interesting
questions because of the procedural posture of this case
being an interlocutory appeal. Because remember, on the
issue of waiver and abrogation, that was litigated
below, and no waiver was found, and that wasn't appealed
against. So if we're going to say it makes a difference
under a spending statute that the State has taken the
money in analyzing the sovereign interest, then we are
creating a waiver on the cheap and disheveling the
established doctrine.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's not a waiver; it's
-- the Federal statute is clear. It says: State, you
can do this in one of two ways. If you go with a
government agency, then that agency has to have
independence and it has to be able to sue.
So if the State is given a choice, it has -
it can do it through private entity; it can do it
through, as in this case, an agency that was set up for
this very purpose and no other, right?
MR. GETCHELL: I would have thought two
things about that. One is when Congress gave the State
the choice of making it a State agency, it understood
that any issues that arise from that would come with the
territory. The second thing is what the State consented
to is it waived its sovereign immunity to be sued, but
it did not specify suit in Federal court, and under
ordinary doctrine, that's a consent to be sued in its
own courts, not in Federal court.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose you have a State
which loves litigation.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Forty-eight percent of the
population are retired lawyers.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Nothing pleases them more
than to have everybody suing everybody else. So they
pass a statute which says, for purposes of lawsuits in
this State, every department can sue every other
department.
Now, if you have such a State, what in the
Constitution stops the Federal Government from abiding
by that rule and applying ordinary Ex parte Young rules,
looking at the defendant, looking at horizon, and then,
if the plaintiff happens to be a Federal agency suing
another, say, well, if it complies with those first set,
the fact that A sues B and they're both State agencies,
that's the State's decision. What in the Constitution
can prevent the State from deciding to organize what
we'll call the legal heaven way?
(Laughter.)
MR. GETCHELL: I would say two things about
that. The first is that that's not what Congress did.
Congress -- Congress said they had to have a right to
sue, and they didn't specify it was Federal court.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. That's A. We can go
into A later because I agree that would be an answer, if
it's correct -- I mean, if that is what happened.
That's a different question, whether Congress could
restructure the State. That's a serious question. But
my question was on the first. Can Congress stop the
State from restructuring itself?
MR. GETCHELL: Well, I -- I don't think the
State by restructuring itself would then ordinarily
expect its agencies to sue each other in Federal court.
In -
JUSTICE BREYER: If they wrote it down
specifically in the law and said we'd love to have our
agencies sue each other. They don't say Federal court.
They just say we love to have our agencies sue each
other. They don't mention the court.
MR. GETCHELL: I would think that, under
ordinary rules of waiver of sovereign immunity, that
would limit the suits to the suits of the sovereign, the
State.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why? What's undignified
about allowing the State -
MR. GETCHELL: I just -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- to live with the choice
it made?
MR. GETCHELL: I think the existing doctrine
is an unspecified waiver of sovereign immunity does not
consent to the Federal court.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I -- I think
there are concepts being confused. There's no question
that it hasn't waived sovereign immunity. VOPA doesn't
claim that. And this is not a direct suit against the
State; it's a suit against a State official. And the
entire premise of Ex parte Young is that this doesn't
offend sovereign immunity for a party to seek
enforcement, prospectively, of a Federal right.
So I don't know why it really matters who
the plaintiff is so long as the sovereign interests that
we've recognized, that the issue of sovereignty is one
that respects a State's coffers and State's laws and
we're not going to interfere with any of them, but we
are going to ensure that, because of the pre-emptive
effect of the Constitution and our laws, that Federal
laws are respected. So what's in this case the
intrusion on State sovereignty when the State knew and
consented consciously to letting VOPA sue for records
when it needed to?
MR. GETCHELL: In referring to sovereign
immunity, I was trying to answer the hypothetical with
respect to why Ex parte Young doesn't apply. The second
part of the question was Congress could expect Ex parte
Young to apply. There's -- there's no indication in the
legislative record that I could find of that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The State should have
expected that.
MR. GETCHELL: Excuse me. That Congress
should have expected. In the hypothetical, Congress was
posited as having thought that Ex parte Young -
JUSTICE BREYER: No. The hypothetical was
just -- Justice Sotomayor is totally right. I'm talking
about Ex parte Young.
MR. GETCHELL: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm imagining -- I'm
imagining a system where the State wants to let the AG,
this organization, the sheriff of Middlesex County, the
City of San Francisco -- they want to permit such
entities to become plaintiffs against other parts of the
State government in such a State if ordinary Ex parte
Young requirements are met. What in the Constitution of
the United States prohibits that suit from going ahead?
MR. GETCHELL: Because Ex parte Young is an
exception to the default position. The default position
is that the States at the founding retained all of their
natural law-of-nations sovereign immunity. We know that
it was -- that it was limited. A State can sue another
State; the Federal Government can sue another State; and
-- can sue a State; and there is the Ex parte Young
exception, but it is the exception.
It is being extended here. We know it's
being extended here because it's never been done before.
And if you're going to extend it, then we ought to ask
the question of whether or not -- asking the Hans
question.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why is it an
extension? I mean, I have sort of a bit of a problem
with that. Why is it somehow a -- a greater
infringement upon State sovereignty to allow a State to
be sued in Federal court by a private individual, who
doesn't even have to be a Virginian, for Pete's sake -
he could be from anywhere, he could be from Iowa. And
yet, it somehow offends State sovereignty more when -
when you allow a State agency to sue a State?
I don't -- I don't see why that's so
horribly worse, unless you're arguing that -- that it
somehow destroys the State system of separation of
powers. But that's a different question, and -- and the
answer to that is simply you did it yourself.
MR. GETCHELL: Well, what I -- what I would
say is that Ex parte Young is intended to deal with the
situation where a citizen of a dual sovereign is able to
vindicate his superior Federal rights against the State.
That interest is not served one bit by having a State
agency sue another State agency in Federal court, even
though that State agency could have sued in State court.
And I would ask the Hans question. The Hans
question is, would the -- you know, the Constitution is
presumed not to raise up causes of action against the
States that would have been considered as anomalous and
unheard-of at the time of the founding. And I think if
you posited whether or not at the founding, if you had
asked, can a part of a State -- well, can the Federal
Congress authorize part of a State to sue the other part
of the State in Federal court, I think it would have
been regarded as anomalous generally.
JUSTICE ALITO: When Virginia agreed to
participate in this program, did Virginia understand
that it could be sued by VOPA not only in -- in the
State courts but also in Federal court?
MR. GETCHELL: I would assert not. I mean,
that was the point of the waiver argument below, and the
court said there had not been a specific enough
declaration of the consequences of taking the money to
raise a traditional waiver.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So the choice is, if it's
not in -- you certainly agree that this State agency has
taken on the obligations of the Federal program, and if
it doesn't turn over records as the Federal statute
requires it to do, it has to be amenable to suit
somewhere. We know if it were a private entity
administering this program, it would be suable in -- in
Federal court. So this State agency is doing the exact
same thing, because Virginia chose to do it that way.
Where is it -- where -- a very simple thing, the Federal
statute says turn over records to the agency, and the
State hospital says no, we're not going to turn over the
records. Where does the agency, whether private or
public, that's administering the Federal program go to
enforce the Federal right?
MR. GETCHELL: The program would go to State
court. Virginia has waived its sovereign immunity, and
there is a remedy through mandamus.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If you -- is that -- I
mean, I want to make sure I understood what your
position is on that. It's not that you go into the
court that you ordinarily go to when you want to get
documentary discovery; you go to the State's supreme
court, and you -- you apply for the extraordinary writ
of mandamus? That's it?
MR. GETCHELL: If you have a -- if you have
a clear right to these documents as a surrogate -- and,
you know, that's a merits question that has never been
reached, whether this is a rights-conferring statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm asking you what is
the forum? We have a simple problem. An agency,
whether private or public, wants records. A Federal
statute says you're entitled to the records. And I
would like to know now, Virginia having chosen to give
this newly created independent State agency the
authority, rather than picking a 501(c)(3) organization
to do it -- simple, we want records of these three
people, the hospital has them, the hospital doesn't give
them to us. The only way under Virginia law is to
petition the highest court of the State for a writ of
mandamus?
MR. GETCHELL: I would -- I personally
believe you could also do it in circuit court. I know
this office has previously taken the position that it
had to go to the supreme court, and I don't want to
withdraw any concession that had been made there, but I
personally read the statute differently.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But which office has said
it has to go to -- to the State supreme court on
mandamus? You said that the office has taken that
position previously.
MR. GETCHELL: The statute, the mandamus
statute, has a fairly broad catch-all provision at the
end which I think would allow suit in -- in circuit
court, but I don't think where it can sue really informs
the doctrine here, because I think the doctrine here is
if you're going to let, under the analysis argued
here -- which is not modest; it's very, very broad. If
VOPA can sue in Federal court under Ex parte Young, so
can any agency of -- of the -- of any State that
receives Federal funds upon which it makes the claim at
the Ex parte Young stage, which is before you reach the
merits -- any agency receiving Federal money that can
dream up a Federal claim under Ex parte Young could sue
the State.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and that has
independent litigating authority.
MR. GETCHELL: Yes, and -- and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. I mean, that's the
difference here.
MR. GETCHELL: And I believe -
JUSTICE SCALIA: This agency was given
independent litigating authority.
MR. GETCHELL: I think -- I think Virginia
happens to be unusual, as long as we're talking about
the policy results that will come from this. I think
Virginia is unusual in having as much control in the
attorney general over who can sue than -- than a lot of
States do, because I think a lot of States have their
own independent agencies that proliferate and have suit
authority.
But I will tell you, even in Virginia, there
is a mechanism by which, if you had the governor in one
party's hands and the attorney general in the other, the
governor can declare a conflict of interest and order
private counsel hired.
And so, if -- if the University of Virginia
wanted to sue the governor, or rather sue the attorney
general, and the governor said, well, if you want to,
and the attorney general won't authorize it, then that's
a conflict of interest. I -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It hasn't happened. Why
do you think? Don't you think it hasn't happened
because there are so many practical political restraints
on that kind of activity?
What would happen, I think, in that State
where there was a rogue attorney general is somebody
would win; the governor would win by getting a
legislative act that says it can't be done, or the
attorney general will win because the political
sentiments are so strong in his or her favor that the
suit is actually welcomed by the population.
So where's the intrusion on sovereignty?
States do what they want. The only issue is how do we
protect Federal rights.
MR. GETCHELL: I would -- I would say that
it's never happened before because nobody's ever claimed
before that Ex parte Young permits a part of the State
to sue the other part of the State. And I would say if
the word were declared from this Court that you can do
that, that there would be a lot of political motivation
to file suits.
JUSTICE BREYER: It isn't that Ex parte
Young, if I understand this right, which is why I
mention it -- it isn't that Ex parte Young permits one
part of a State to sue another part; it is a State
permits one part of a State to sue another part, that
that's common in the State, that the law requires it.
And the question is, in that circumstance, should the Ex
parte Young situation be treated differently?
MR. GETCHELL: And -
JUSTICE BREYER: Am I right about the
statement of the question in the case?
MR. GETCHELL: I -- I think -- I think
whether or not the State has given independent authority
to sue without specifying that it can be in Federal
court, without waiving its immunity in Federal court, is
not the issue in the case. I think the issue in the
case -- I think that the issue in the case is whether or
not Ex parte Young should be extended to do something
that's never been done before. I think that's the issue
in the case. And I don't think Ex parte Young, which is
a necessary fiction -- but it is a fiction; it's a
necessary fiction to allow the citizens of a dual
sovereign to vindicate his or her Federal rights in
Federal court -- is implicated in the least when it's a
State agency that could sue another State agency by the
State's consent in State court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you know -- do you
know of any other statute in which there is an
independent State agency that exists for the sole
purpose of administering a Federal program?
MR. GETCHELL: I -- I'm not an expert in
that area of the law. I would have thought it's quite
common. But I don't -- I don't know. That's just my
supposition. I think that -- that -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You couldn't give any
example of a Federal program that says: State, you can
do it through a private agency; you can do it through a
public agency -- public agency created to implement this
Federal program, that is its sole business. I don't
really know of any such.
MR. GETCHELL: I -- I personally don't know
of one as I stand here, but my supposition is that
because the Federal spending power has been so
dramatically exercised over the years, that there
probably is one, and I had not thought to look for it.
JUSTICE BREYER: In your experience -- this
would be helpful -- would you characterize as common or
uncommon situations where State agencies are given
authority to sue other parts of the State? As I think
it to myself, I think, well, City of Glendale v. State
Water Authority, or Middlesex County Sheriff v. The
Bureau of Prisons. That doesn't sound weird to me. It
sounds as if there probably are a lot of such
circumstances, but I don't know. What -- what do you
think?
MR. GETCHELL: There -- I think two -- there
are two things to look at: lower subdivisions of the
States, which in many States are -
JUSTICE BREYER: Cities -- cities against -
they must do that a lot.
MR. GETCHELL: Yes, but they're just
corporations in -- in Virginia and in most States.
There are a few States where they are treated as
something different, but they are not generally regarded
as even units of -- subordinate units of government for
purposes of sovereign immunity.
However, the State itself and its agencies
are, and that's the issue that's implicated by Ex parte
Young. I would -- I would say that -
JUSTICE BREYER: University of
Massachusetts v. State Environmental Organization. Does
that -- does that kind of suit sound familiar to you or
-- or not?
MR. GETCHELL: I think that -- that the
States vary as to how tolerant they are of -- of being
sued by -- having their parts sue each other in State
court. I think I have seen titles like that, but I
don't think that, as a principle of Federal jurisdiction
-- because, ultimately, whether sovereign immunity
exists, if it's not waived, does deprive this Court -
or deprives a Federal court of the right to proceed.
I think that deciding we're going to extend
the fiction of Ex parte Young beyond the rights of
citizens to allow the State to sue itself in Federal
court is just something that's totally anomalous. I --
I just don't see how this Court would want to do that,
even -- even if it thought otherwise that it was, you
know, something that could be done under the logic of Ex
parte Young. I don't know why you'd want to extend that
and create -- and create the Federal courts as a venue
for political grandstanding, which is what I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure that -
what you're forgetting is that Virginia took a lot of
money to set up and get the benefits of Federal funds by
creating an independent agency. It had expressed its
desire to control the agency more, and it was told very
directly: You can't. You have to let that agency sue.
What I don't understand is why you think
that it's a greater affront to sovereignty that the suit
is here as opposed to State court. The State has
already said: We're going to take your money, and this
is what we're going to permit -
MR. GETCHELL: I think it has -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- a suit.
MR. GETCHELL: I think it has long been
recognized that the dignity of the State is not offended
at all by a suit against -- against it in its own courts
that it has authorized. I think that it is well
understood that if you bring a State against its will
into a Federal court, even if you're using the fiction
of Ex parte -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But we use -- we don't
bring the State in; we bring a State official who is
violating a Federal law.
MR. GETCHELL: But this Court has always
recognized that there is a large sense in which that's a
fiction and it's just something that we have to tolerate
in order to have a dual system of -- of sovereignty.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So your argument is really
-- really is a sovereign immunity argument. You're
saying that the waiver of sovereign immunity, unless it
explicitly includes a waiver to be sued in Federal
courts, applies only in State courts -- okay -- and that
that limitation should not be evaded by applying Ex
parte Young to a suit in Federal court where the suit is
by another State agency.
MR. GETCHELL: That is precisely my view.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So sovereign immunity is
part of your argument, but -
MR. GETCHELL: It -- well, it's -- I think
it's all that's really appropriately before this Court,
because, again, we're up here on an interlocutory appeal
where the decision below in the Fourth Circuit by Judge
Wilkinson is premised entirely on sovereign immunity.
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. Now, explain -
this is good because that's very helpful to me -- the
exact statement that Justice Scalia made, and you said
yes, that's exactly right.
And then it is the case that a citizen of
the State could come into Federal court and sue the
State official under Ex parte Young, but you say -- but
the agency of the State can't do it, even though they
have State litigating authority. And the reason that
the latter is more injurious of the dignity interests of
the State than the former is -
MR. GETCHELL: One, the State is being
pitted against itself. If you look at the very caption
in this case, VOPA sued the State officials in the name
of the Commonwealth.
Secondly, there's a -- to the extent there's
any authority, we have Ex parte Young here that gives
rights to citizens, and we have a lot of cases that
resulted most recently in Ysursa, in which it was
recognized that the general rule is that subordinate
parts of States, subordinate State authorities, have no
constitutional privileges and immunities that they can
assert against their creator.
And if you wanted to know whether or not Ex
parte Young should be extended into this area, it seems
to me that the previous expectation would have been that
the Ysursa tradition would have said, no, we don't want
to extend this into this area.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there other areas -
and I can't come up with the name of the case. It was
suggested by counsel, your friend, in the -- in his
opening argument.
I thought there were cases in which a
subdivision is not -- a political subdivision of a State
is not allowed to build a dam by State law, and yet it
can go to the Federal Government, get a license, and
build the dam anyway and just bypass the restrictions
put upon its parent. The agent has more powers than the
principal gives it because it relies on Federal law.
MR. GETCHELL: I don't know the case. And I
don't believe anybody has cited as a principal case a
decision of this Court that would say that.
Now, a State can do anything it -- it wanted
to in terms of waiving its sovereign immunity.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In -- in this case, could
Virginia sue VOPA in Federal court?
MR. GETCHELL: I don't think -- I don't
think it appropriately could.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You think it could or
could not?
MR. GETCHELL: I do not think it
appropriately could. I don't think parts of the State
can sue other parts of the State in Federal court.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it would be the
parent suing the -- the subsidiary, and -- and VOPA is
not the State.
MR. GETCHELL: VOPA is -- is part of the
State for purposes of sovereign immunity analysis, I
would have thought.
But if somebody tried to get a personal
recovery -- I mean, VOPA employees are ordinary State
employees. I presume they're subject to the Tort Claims
Act, so it is -- it is a State agency. But I don't know
why the involuntary suing of the State in Federal court,
which I think raises these traditional sovereignty
dignity interests, would be reciprocal.
I mean, if for some strange reason the State
wanted to sue VOPA, I don't know what the answer would
be, because it may be they waived all their interests if
they tried to do that.
But I think that the -- that the practical
problem for this Court is that there's no limit.
There's no practical principle limit to what's being
argued here. And so we set up this intramural political
contest in Federal court as a matter of course. And I
think, doctrinally, that it is clear that this is an
extension of Ex parte Young, beyond dispute, and I don't
think it ought to be extended without doing a federalism
inquiry. And I think if you do a federalism inquiry,
you ask the Hans question: Is -- would this have been
regarded as anomalous and unheard-of at the founding?
And I don't think there's --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The bottom line, then, is
to -- to restrict Congress's choice. Congress wants to
have an entity superintend this program for disabled
people. So the instruction we would like to give
Congress is: Congress, if you want Federal courts to be
able to enforce the Federal right, then you have to set
it up as an agency, as a private agency. You can't
give -- Congress, you can't give the States a choice
whether they'd rather do it through private or
public organizations.
MR. GETCHELL: I don't think so, for two
reasons. One is -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. I don't
think so -- what? You don't think Congress -
MR. GETCHELL: I don't think that -- I think
Congress could have, under traditional waiver authority,
under the spending power, have said: If you want to
take the money, we're making a clear statement, you have
to waive your sovereign immunity and be sued in State --
I mean, Federal court. That didn't happen.
Also, let's not overlook the fact that the
Secretary has an administrative remedy in withholding
the funds, and when this Court was faced with the
question of whether or not to extend Ex parte Young in
the Seminole Tribe, the answer was: No, we're not going
to do it, because there is an alternative remedy.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you -- you would
acknowledge that if a State knew when it took the money
that it was -- and when it created a State agency to
administer the program, that it was letting itself open
to suit in Federal court under an Ex parte Young theory,
then everything would be okay?
MR. GETCHELL: Well, no, because I don't
think it ever -- it would ever.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that would be a
waiver of -
MR. GETCHELL: No, but I would -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- whatever sovereignty
immunity interest it had, wouldn't it?
MR. GETCHELL: If Congress -- Congress
conditioned receiving the money on waiver, then I
suppose it -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, Congress could, but
if they knew it in this instance when they accepted the
money, you wouldn't have a case, would you?
MR. GETCHELL: The law -- if -- if under
traditional waiver doctrine, it had been done right, no,
we wouldn't have a case. But remember, the law of the
case in this interlocutory appeal is that there was no
waiver. That waiver was -- was determined below and not
appealed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a good point.
MR. GETCHELL: And -- and so under -- under
the circumstances here, we have a fairly peculiar
specialized situation, but -- but deciding in favor of
the Petitioners I think is fraught with peril and is
doctrinally unprecedented and improper, and we would ask
that the decision of the Fourth Circuit be affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Galanter, have you 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SETH M. GALANTER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GALANTER: I have three points for those
3 minutes. First, we don't think that a State AG or a
State agency could sue a governor if State law
prohibited it. The question of capacity to sue, the
power to sue, is one of State law. What we're saying
here is that if a suit could go forward between two
State agencies -- excuse me -- between a State agency
and State officials in State court, that if that case
involved a Federal issue, it can be heard in Federal
court if the other requirements of Article III and Ex
parte Young are being met.
Second, there was some suggestion that Ex
parte Young is only about citizens. But this Court's
applied Ex parte Young to Indian tribes, allowing them
to sue State officials. It's allowed foreign countries
to use Ex parte Young to sue State officials. The only
-- and the Respondents concede that political
subdivisions, which can also be eliminated at will by
the State, could use Ex parte Young.
JUSTICE BREYER: Have you found any case -
are there a lot, a few, none -- where one State agency
at a State level sues another in Federal court, period?
Say they have "arising under" jurisdiction.
MR. GALANTER: No. There aren't a lot of
them because -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, are there any?
MR. GALANTER: Other than in this protection
advocacy system -
JUSTICE BREYER: None?
MR. GALANTER: None.
JUSTICE BREYER: See, nagging at me is some
kind of Article III problem.
MR. GALANTER: Well, but -
JUSTICE BREYER: And maybe there is none. I
don't know. It's -- there are none, though? None?
MR. GALANTER: Well, but that's because
Congress doesn't usually vest rights in -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. It wouldn't have
to. All -- they could get into all kinds of arguments
about EPA and all kinds of Federal rights with each
other. I would think.
MR. GALANTER: I -- I don't think that's
correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. GALANTER: I think that most of the
time, when a State is involved in a dispute with another
State, it's about State law. This is rather unique in
that respect.
And that brings me to the third point, which
is this notion of waiver. Now, we're not arguing here
that they've waived their sovereign immunity. What
we're claiming is that they don't have sovereign
immunity to these injunctive suits against the State
officials. We're not seeking damages, and we haven't
named the State in its own name. But what we are
suggesting is that -- that they -- it was the natural
consequence, as this Court decided in Frew, that when
you, you know, accept the Federal money and you are
bound by Federal duties and that the -- the entity that
you give the Federal right to has a Federal -- has a
right to sue, that the Federal issues will be litigated
in Federal court.
And I would say particularly that here
just -- of course, Virginia renews every year to take
the Federal money, but when it last amended the Federal
statute -- or the State statute to create VOPA in its
current structure, there were existing Ex parte Young
suits against State officials.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
I have one question of curiosity. You said in your
opening argument that 49 of 50 States limit in some way
the executive's power in this area.
MR. GALANTER: I -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's the one
State?
MR. GALANTER: I'm drawing that from the -
Indiana's amicus brief, and I believe they identified
New Jersey as the State that has a unitary executive.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:01 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
35:24 9:11 20:23 ALITO 19:8,16 anxious 14:7 20:23 21:7 22:7
advisory 7:5 36:14 anybody 48:9 22:12 23:9
55:19 3:12 11:20 allow 10:7,17 appeal 11:11 articulate 9:4
affront 45:8 19:5 48:3 53:2 52:1 aspect 20:2
13:12 agencies 6:1,2 allows 19:9 28:9 1:17 asserting 8:21
10:1,7 14:22 28:9 appendix 26:14 Assistant 1:20
31:16 32:9,13 alternative 51:1 applies 46:7 27:7
44:1 52:19 amended 55:2 37:21 13:21 14:3,25
8:6,19 9:1 9:23 11:6,12 46:8 17:11 22:13
12:21,23 13:20 17:18 appointed 5:6 23:23,24 24:14
25:12,12,13,17 18:20 55:14 17:10 39:25 40:6,10
42:9,9,13,21 20:18,22 21:4 49:17 40:3 41:22 43:8
45:6 46:10 47:1 23:4,8,18 24:4 35:18 54:12 50:16
51:4 52:15,19 25:20 26:6,11 2:2,5,9,12 3:3,7 40:12
42:14 agent 48:6 27:22 28:12,15 29:1 36:19 46:3 45:17
29:10 32:1 anomalous 36:7 52:11 55:8 autonomy 15:11
agreed 36:14 49:24 arisen 22:23
27:6 55:14 certain 17:21 citizen 12:9 concern 9:23
2:4,7,11 54:11 changed 21:25 claim 8:21 33:6 51:16
3:8 18:20 broad 38:25 39:5 characterize 39:8,11 conduct 26:18
52:12 budget 13:6 43:6 claimed 41:4 conflict 40:7,13
18:11 48:3,5 cheap 30:4 Claims 49:5 33:4
25:4 38:15 Bureau 43:11 4:7,11,18,23 Clause 7:16 11:4 10:15 12:10
48:9 business 42:23 4:25 5:9,20 6:7 19:9 25:8 14:21 19:22
bypass 48:5 6:21,23 7:4,20 clean 20:21 21:1 30:16 31:22,23
28:10 29:3 50:13 52:9 comes 13:6 18:3 Congress's 50:2
55:6,11,16 commission 5:6 consciously
8:10 30:11,17 32:23 common 41:15 42:10
10:11,12 36:23 50:2,8 42:17 43:6 consented 30:19
16:3 choices 20:4 Commonwealth 33:20
18:2 29:14 5:16 7:23 8:1 consequence
22:1,2 choose 15:24 8:12 9:24 10:4 54:19
29:22 chose 37:6 14:1 16:15 consequences
33:18 chosen 28:18 29:14 47:8 36:21
24:5
42:1,1 38:6 company 3:25 considered 36:7
46:23 47:7 circuit 38:15 39:1 6:17,18 consistent 27:2
28:7,14
48:8,9,13 46:17 52:8 complaint 19:1 Constitution
30:24
circumstance 29:19 31:11,17 33:17
32:11
53:7 41:16 compliance 34:18 36:5
34:8
circumstances 11:16 21:15 constitutional
41:10,19
44:4
21:24 43:13 52:4 complies 31:15 contest 49:18
53:7,13
48:1 citation 18:4 comply 22:14 continually 6:1
44:20 45:9,19 decision 9:25 37:20 effect 10:25
46:24 48:10,14 46:17 48:10 discriminating eight 20:19
51:6 52:20,22 declaration dismiss 15:7 29:15
courts 29:6 30:23 declare 40:7 dispute 4:2 7:6 Eleventh 9:15
45:16 46:7,7 default 34:21,21 disputes 17:9 14:4 17:18
20:18 52:25 defendants 28:6 21:11,14 eliminated 5:19
32:2 54:5 create 12:10 definitely 26:6 dissolved 14:15 53:5
13:17 38:7 42:22 51:4 depends 15:21 doctrine 30:5,22 enforce 3:12
23:21 creating 30:4 deprive 44:14 32:25 39:3,3 16:21 17:12
40:8 45:4 deprives 44:15 51:22 18:25 22:20
52:9 55:6 creator 47:16 dereliction 19:20 documentary 28:19 37:12
18:20 destroys 35:19 doing 10:21 37:5 33:10
55:1 current 15:5 55:4 determined dramatically Engineers 20:21
4:3 5:25 D DEVELOPM... drawing 55:13 ensure 26:13
7:8,12 D 1:20 2:6 3:1 1:10 dream 39:11 33:16
12:1,8 18:19 difference 11:23 dredge 21:2 entertain 4:3 6:8
16:22 dam 6:5 48:3,5 30:1 39:17 dual 35:24 42:6 entire 10:9,10
18:23 damages 54:16 different 6:17,18 46:2 33:8
21:23 22:2 dams 6:5 14:20 6:19,19 7:22 due 25:3 entirely 46:18
23:9,17 17:22 32:3 35:20 DUNCAN 1:24 entities 6:14,24
day 7:9 43:23 2:10 29:1 7:7 34:16
29:4 day-to-day 8:7 differently 38:19 duties 54:21 entitled 38:5
31:24 DD 18:25 20:6 41:17 duty 19:20 entity 3:17,18
33:2 deal 5:10 29:10 dignified 29:9,16 D.C 1:12,18,21 4:16 6:15,22
36:2,3,12 35:23 dignity 3:21 29:5 8:19 11:19
37:5 dealing 7:17 45:15 47:3 49:9 E 12:13,15,22
December 1:13 direct 33:6 E 2:1 3:1,1 16:21,21 20:16
decide 7:8 19:25 direction 10:18 EARLE 1:24 30:12 37:3 50:3
10:10 55:15 Federal 3:12,22 45:19 46:1 G
exercise 17:16 6:2,3,4,5 7:8,12 file 41:9 Galanter 1:18
exercising 8:14 9:20,25 10:6,6 find 34:2 4:4,10,13,20
existing 32:25 11:21 12:14,17 fired 23:25 6:10,20 7:1,13
exists 42:13 14:11,17,18 11:3 16:1 20:6 10:12,23 11:2,9
30:5 expect 32:9 16:22,24 17:6,8 31:15,22 32:5 12:18,24 13:3
expected 34:4,6 19:21 20:7,8 following 13:17 17:14 18:2,5,9
16:14 expert 42:15 22:19,21 23:9 Ford 3:25 4:1,1,2 53:11,14,17,20
18:24 19:4 explain 46:19 23:16,16 24:2 4:2,8,8 6:9,9 53:23 54:4,7
24:3,15 explicitly 46:6 24:18,25 25:11 7:5,8,9,10,10 55:10,13
28:6,8 expressed 45:4 27:10,13,18 foreign 53:2 general 1:21,24
33:8,24 extend 35:5 28:15,19 30:7 forgetting 45:2 8:8,13,24 13:21
34:7,10 44:16,23 47:21 30:21,23 31:11 former 47:4 14:3 15:1,6,13
35:1 50:24 31:14,24 32:9 forth 19:2 16:7 23:2,6,11
39:6,9,11 extended 35:3,4 32:13 33:2,10 Forty-eight 31:2 23:14,23,25
42:2 47:18 33:17 34:25 forum 17:10 38:3 24:14,16 25:1
44:2,17 49:21 35:12,25 36:2 forward 9:7 15:1 27:8,25 28:9
45:20 extension 15:18 36:10,12,17,25 52:18 39:25 40:6,11
47:10 35:9 49:20 37:1,5,7,11,12 for-cause 26:24 40:12,19,22
49:20 extent 47:9 38:4 39:6,8,10 27:1,4 47:13
51:6 extracurricular 39:11 41:2,23 found 29:25 53:7 generally 16:18
53:1,3 26:19 41:24 42:7,8,14 founding 34:22 36:13 43:23
55:4 extraordinary 42:20,23 43:2 36:8,9 49:24 generals 17:12
46:9,24 48:4,7 Francisco 34:15 2:10 28:25 29:1
22:1 26:22 faced 50:23 49:18 50:5,6,20 free 7:18,21,24 30:15 31:21
facilities 20:9 51:6 52:21,21 Frew 54:19 32:7,16,22,25
50:21 55:2,2 function 13:5,7 36:18 37:13,23
52:19 far 11:25 fiction 27:12 42:5 19:17 20:7 39:8 41:18,21 42:15
45:12,14 19:16,21 21:25 heads 21:4 48:12 49:1 information
46:11,14 22:6 24:25 HEALTH 1:9 50:19 51:14 12:11
48:8,15,19 29:15 30:9 hear 3:3 54:13,15 informs 39:2
50:11,15 31:11 34:17,25 heard 52:21 impaired 29:6 infringement
43:24 48:4 heaven 31:19 impediments 35:11
governmental held 6:1 10:4 22:17 injunctive 8:23
18:19 15:24 HHS 26:16 implicated 42:8 inmates 16:12
13:1 19:14 highest 38:12 important 9:5 inquiry 4:13 9:17
25:10 governor 5:7 8:8 hired 40:8 20:2 49:22,22
36:23 8:14 10:9,19,20 hold 16:7 imposed 3:20 inspect 3:13
38:2,20 15:14,15,16 holds 16:4 improper 52:7 instance 51:19
50:1 16:11,11 23:3,6 Honor 4:4 12:18 includes 46:6 instances 15:10
50:4,8,8 25:16,18,18 horribly 35:18 incorrect 16:14 institutions 13:8
26:3,20 27:9,9 hospital 37:9 independence 13:13
41:22 40:11,20 52:15 hospitals 3:15 9:12 22:9 27:2 intended 35:23
governors 22:14 hypothetical 30:10 interest 5:22,23
47:10 grandstanding 34:6,8 4:16,19,19,20 36:1 40:7,13
44:25 4:21 5:1,5,5 6:1 51:14
14:16 15:1 guess 14:14,24 idea 16:1 22:5 25:13,17 28:13,17 33:12
30:8 31:25 identified 55:14 26:2,2 38:7 47:3 49:9,12
H identity 15:20,21 39:14,20 40:2 interfere 33:15
38:17,21 hands 40:6 III 1:7 4:15 9:11 41:22 42:13 Interior 14:20
52:18 Hans 35:6 36:4,4 12:1,6,8 18:13 45:4 interlocutory
21:18 22:16 26:15 52:22 53:19 Indian 53:1 internal 7:6
30:1 33:15 40:18 50:20 illegal 26:18 Indiana 8:10 intertwined 9:9
34:19 happened 6:24 imagining 34:12 Indiana's 55:14 intramural 49:17
37:9 39:4 13:19 21:19 34:13 indicated 17:21 intrusion 33:19
45:10,11 32:2 40:14,15 immunities 47:15 indication 34:1 40:25
41:4 immunity 30:20 individual 17:4,5 investigations
52:2 39:22 33:23 34:23 35:12 invoked 18:24
13:6,21 head 22:6 43:25 44:13 inevitable 15:17 involve 4:15
19:9,11 headed 19:18 46:4,5,12,18 inevitably 15:13 involved 52:21
26:10,17 27:6,7 37:3,25 38:6,15 letting 33:20 M
9:10,15 31:2,5,25 32:11 53:22 54:20 license 48:4 50:18
17:9,20 32:20,23 33:3 known 3:12 licenses 6:4 mandamus 37:15
33:13 34:3,8,9,12 licensing 14:19 37:22 38:13,22
42:1 35:8 36:14,23 L limit 32:18 49:15 38:24
44:2 52:21 37:16 38:2,20 labor 6:3 14:18 49:16 55:8 Massachusetts
54:23 40:14 41:10,19 Lassen 22:2 limited 34:24 matter 1:14
43:5 24:18 line 17:20 50:1 25:20 49:18
48:22 50:1,13 7:15 11:16 13:4 litigating 14:2 29:13 32:2 35:9
53:10 54:6 55:6,11,16 23:24 24:1 21:12 26:9 27:5 meant 8:2
26:23 32:12 little 7:22 22:10 Medicaid 19:17
4:7,11 Kennedy 15:9 42:16 45:23 logic 44:22 members 5:7
5:9 16:10,16,20 48:3,7 51:21,23 long 19:12,24 25:16,19 26:7
6:7,13,23 17:1,11,19 18:4 52:15,17 54:9 33:12 39:22 mention 32:15
8:4 18:7 22:12 27:6 laws 17:23 33:14 45:14 41:12
9:3,11 27:15,20 47:22 33:17,18 look 8:24 15:5 merits 37:25
11:8 48:13,17,22 lawsuit 23:13,16 24:19 43:4,16 39:10
12:10 kind 28:4 40:17 25:2 47:6 met 34:18 52:23
13:1 44:6 53:19 lawsuits 31:7 looking 8:22 18:7 middle 14:12
14:6,9 kinds 16:16 54:1 lawyers 31:3 26:1 31:13,13 Middlesex 34:14
15:9 54:2 law-of-nations lose 21:16,16 43:10
knew 33:19 51:3 34:23 25:5 midstream 21:25
18:4 51:19 legal 6:14,22 9:5 loses 7:10 minutes 52:10,14
19:8 know 7:15 8:2 22:17 26:13 lost 28:5 mistreated 13:14
20:14,20 10:10,11 12:9 31:19 lot 16:23 39:25 modest 39:5
21:10,19 14:6,9,10,21 legislation 12:14 40:1 41:8 43:12 money 10:15
17:20,24 21:2 legislative 34:2 43:19 45:2 11:1,18 13:23
24:5 25:16,25 26:19 40:21 47:11 53:8,11 29:16,17 30:3
26:21 27:12 legislature 14:1 love 32:12,14 36:21 39:10
29:13,19 33:11 legitimately 16:4 loves 30:25 45:3,10 50:18
34:23 35:3 36:5 letter 23:24 lower 43:16 51:3,16,20
55:2 occurring 13:9 37:19 50:24 51:6 1:23 2:4,8,14
offered 10:15 29:18 34:14 particularly 16:8 picking 38:8
official 26:21 ought 35:5 49:21 48:20,21 33:12
officials 3:14 8:6 owned 6:25 33:9 please 3:10
16:24,25 26:8 P pass 28:22 31:7 pleases 31:5
25:2 35:4 31:25 34:11 48:23 permissibility points 52:13
41:4 42:3 39:16 46:7 51:7 part 6:11,16 8:25 15:20 policy 39:23
one-third 25:18 41:13,14,14 34:15 45:11 pollution 21:3
opinion 7:5 23:23 18:24 19:5 personal 28:10 position 9:1
27:11 28:6,8 personally 38:14 28:14 34:21,21
3:7 18:19 29:1 42:2,4 44:2,17 petition 26:14 26:20 43:2
48:6 11:3,4,6 20:23 42:14 19:13 remove 25:16,19
22:12 24:10 31:7 43:25 49:1 REBUTTAL 26:25
procedural 29:22 48:6 receiving 39:10 reputation 4:12
proceedings 27:1 reciprocal 49:9 requested 13:11
12:23,25 13:2 4:15 6:8 9:14 record 34:2 requirement
36:15,25 37:4 12:1,3,8 13:18 13:10,12 33:20 requirements
prohibited 52:16 37:25 41:16,20 regarded 36:13 11:3
prohibits 34:19 questions 18:15 regardless 7:11 resolved 3:21
promulgated quite 8:17 42:16 19:15 respect 5:11
properly 18:24 16:13 respected 33:18
relations 6:3 4:21 8:5,6 16:2
prospectively
12:15 3:4,11 11:19
17:4 20:9 13:11 16:3,12
27:21 26:13 53:14
29:17 provision 26:1
35:12 26:11 38:25
38:4 provisions 26:25
33:11 39:2 remember 29:23 result 20:4 26:8
42:21 50:7 public 11:19 12:9
46:3,4,15 51:23 resulted 47:12
13:7 20:19
removal 21:6 retained 34:22
7:10,25 saying 11:24 service 13:12 48:12 49:1 23:12,13,15,19
9:20 15:7,14 24:12 SERVICES 1:10 50:19 54:13,14 23:24 24:1,19
12:11 46:5 52:17 set 19:2 30:13 sovereignty 5:11 24:25 25:2,12
16:4,7,25 says 5:2 7:12 31:15 45:3 19:4,7 23:20 25:12,17,20
20:17 8:21 23:24 49:17 50:6 25:7 28:13 26:2 28:13,18
23:16 25:17 26:2 30:7 SETH 1:18 2:3 33:13,19 35:11 29:18 30:2,7,11
27:10 31:7 37:8,9 2:13 3:7 52:11 35:15 40:25 30:16,17,19,24
38:5 40:21 sheriff 34:14 45:8 46:2 49:8 31:8,10,16,18
30:14 42:20 43:10 51:13 32:4,6,8,19,21
33:10 Scalia 10:2,14,24 side 28:22 special 15:8 33:7,7,19,19
37:12,24 11:8,13 14:24 significance 9:6 23:20 25:7 34:3,13,17,17
44:15 24:11,13,22 similar 8:9 specialized 52:5 34:24,25,25
50:6 28:5,8,21 29:9 simple 8:20 9:16 specific 22:11 35:1,11,11,15
54:22,23 29:13 35:8 37:7 38:3,9 36:20 35:16,16,19,25
17:13 46:3,12,21 51:2 single 6:22 32:12 36:11,12,17,24
28:19 51:10,13,18 situation 10:3 specification 37:5,9,13 38:7
41:2 42:7 52:2 14:10 21:5,7,18 12:16 38:12,21 39:7
47:11 Scalia's 13:18 22:23 35:24 specify 30:21 39:12 40:18
54:2 scheme 20:1 41:17 52:5 31:24 41:5,6,13,13
28:20 23:10 43:7 spending 7:16 42:9,9,10,13
4:7,11,18 second 9:14 42:23 30:2 43:2 50:17 44:1,5,10,18
5:9,20 20:10 30:19 Solicitor 1:20,24 stage 39:9 45:9,9,15,18
7:4,20 33:24 52:24 somebody 40:19 stand 8:12 27:8 45:22,22 46:7
8:4 11:22 Secondly 47:9 49:3 43:1 46:10,24,25
18:17 Secretary 50:22 sorry 33:3 50:13 standing 4:14 47:1,2,4,5,7,14
21:10 see 35:17 44:20 sort 35:9 9:12 15:5 22:22 48:2,3,11,20
25:15,24 53:18 Sotomayor 6:13 State 3:14,18,21 48:21,24 49:1,4
28:23 seek 13:20 33:9 8:16 9:3 13:17 5:1,11,13,13 49:6,7,10 50:19
52:9 55:6 seeking 54:16 22:10 33:3 34:3 7:17,20,25 8:6 51:3,4 52:14,15
seeks 3:12 34:9 40:14 45:1 8:18,23 9:20,21 52:15,17,19,19
47:13 sense 45:25 sounds 43:12 11:25 12:15,16 54:9,15,17 55:3
32:17,18 33:1,5 16:12,21,21,24 States 1:1,15,22
12:14 43:24 47:13,14 28:2,16 30:21 term 19:19 50:11,14,14,15
15:10,23 subsidiaries 4:1 33:6,7 34:19 terms 15:5 48:12 50:15 51:9 52:6
18:20 6:12 37:2 39:1 40:2 territory 30:19 52:14 54:3,4,7
34:19,22 subsidiary 48:23 40:24 44:6 45:8 test 8:21 thinking 18:3
40:1,1 sue 4:12,22 8:22 45:13,16 46:9,9 Thank 18:17 thinks 4:8
43:17,17 8:23 10:19 51:6 52:18 28:23 52:9 55:6 third 5:6 9:18
44:9 11:14 13:21,23 suits 6:4 32:18 55:16 54:11
50:8 55:8 15:14 16:14 32:18 41:9 theory 17:2 thought 7:5
33:14,14 24:2 25:13 27:9 superintend 50:3 24:3 51:6 28:6 30:15 34:7
42:10 27:11 28:9,10 superior 35:25 they'd 50:9 42:16 43:4
32:9,13,14 2:8 18:21 37:6,7 three 9:9 38:9
11:4,17 39:2,6,11,25 24:23 25:4 think 4:7,13 6:11 54:8
13:11 40:10,10 41:6 30:24 51:17 6:17 10:20 11:2 titles 44:11
30:2,7 41:13,14,23 supposition 11:3 12:4,7 today 8:12
37:1,8 42:9 43:8 44:10 42:18 43:1 14:13 15:4,4,17 told 45:5
44:18 45:6 supreme 1:1,15 15:19 16:2 tolerant 44:9
42:12 46:24 48:14,21 37:20 38:17,21 17:23 18:3 19:3 tolerate 46:1
49:11 52:15,16 sure 8:17 10:3 19:6,8,8,12,23 Tort 49:5
30:22 35:12 surrogate 37:24 22:2,7,16,18 traditional 36:22
19:2 sues 4:2 31:16 34:13 35:19 24:18 25:6,21 treasury 3:20
19:11 sufficiently 12:5 T 32:25 33:3 36:8 tribes 53:1
22:4 T 2:1,1 36:12 39:1,2,3 tried 49:3,13
suggesting 54:18 50:18 55:1 41:21,21,25 15:19
53:5 suing 6:15 8:20 38:16,22 43:8,9,14,15 trying 4:17,22
26:24 49:5 24:3 27:9,24 talking 9:10 18:1 44:25 45:7,12 turn 29:16 37:1,8
suit 3:18,25 15:1 40:4 48:20 49:8,14 two 4:1 16:1 20:4
31:21 vast 15:18 19:1 22:9 26:8 weren't 22:5 16:14 17:3
50:11 venue 44:24 26:24 27:2,5 West 4:1,2,8 6:9 18:24 19:5
Verizon 9:17 7:9 23:20 24:3,15
W 1:7 we're 7:11 15:22 31:12 33:8,24
44:13 version 24:19 33:5 37:14 39:22 44:16 39:6,9,11 41:5
11:20 waiver 29:24,25 54:12,14,16 44:23 46:9,25
36:15 view 46:11 33:1 36:19,22 33:13 50:24 51:6
45:7 vindicate 35:25 46:5,6 50:16 white 17:20 52:23,25 53:1,3
37:17 violating 17:5,7 51:25 54:12 Wilkinson 46:18 Ysursa 47:12,20
20:21 45:23 waiving 41:24 willy-nilly 22:13
3:4,11 8:14 want 12:20 13:22 win 40:20,20,22 09-529 1:5 3:4
23:22 25:11 1
20:3,10 withdraw38:18
25:8 withholding
50:22
wonder 26:4
5:18 14:24 47:20 50:5,17 18 2:8
36:14,15 word 41:7
34:19 37:6,14 38:6,11 wanted 40:10 work 7:15 29:18 2
48:14 55:1 wants 6:5 7:9 worse 35:18 27 5:9
vis-à-vis 9:6 34:13 38:4 50:2 10:20 12:6 23:3
VOPA 3:12 4:16 1:18,21 17:25 51:23 53:25 3 2:4 52:10,14
18:24 20:3 21:8 way 10:15 21:2
27:18 38:11 55:8 501(c)(3) 38:8
36:16
47:7 48:14
14:24 22:1 weird 43:11 years 43:3
49:4
44:5 welcomed 40:24 Young 3:17,19
55:3
