IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CSX TRANSPORTATION, INC., :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-520
ALABAMA DEPARTMENT OF :
REVENUE, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, November 10, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
MELISSA A. SHERRY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioner.
COREY L. MAZE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MELISSA A. SHERRY, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as
amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner 16
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
COREY L. MAZE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 09-520, CSX
Transportation v. The Alabama Department of Revenue.
Mr. Phillips.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The pivotal, and in my judgment, incorrect
holding of the Eleventh Circuit in the Norfolk Southern
case is reproduced in the appendix to this case, because
Norfolk Southern is the controlling precedent for our -
for our particular dispute. And at page 29A of the
appendix to the petition, in there, the court of appeals
said that there is nothing in the 4-R Act's plain
language that indicates an intent to reach exemptions
content from generally applicable sales and use taxes.
To our way of thinking, all this case is
about: Whether or not the State has free reign to
employ exemptions without exposing the effects of those
exemptions to a challenge under (b)(4) of the statute.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in light of our AFC
case, it seems to me that what you are arguing is that
the statute -- the effect of your argument is that the
statute gives more protection in the case of
non-property taxes than property taxes, and that's an -
an odd reading of the statute, which is directed
primarily to the -- to the property tax.
MR. PHILLIPS: No, I think, Justice Kennedy,
what we are doing is recognizing that Congress was very
specific and very explicit about how to treat property
taxes and set up an entire quite carefully articulated
scheme in dealing with them in (b)(1) and (b)(3), and
then said, in general, when you are dealing with areas
that are not approved by (b)(1) and (b)(3), then you
have to examine whether or not the overall scheme, in
fact, discriminates against rail carriers.
So, while it is true that there could be
circumstances in which you may end up with somewhat more
protection as a consequence of (b)(4), I think that's a
function of Congress not having limited the (b)(4)
exemption to property, and just saying it's -- it's a
discrimination against the rail carrier generally that
the statute is aimed to prevent or to protect against.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But what's the -- what's the
possible rationale for that distinction? Why would that
distinction make any sense?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think because
Congress didn't have the full run mine of possibilities
in front of it at that point in time. I mean, it
probably had some sense of what other taxes were out
there that might pose discrimination, but I do think
that Congress is very much concerned that the States,
once they saw the roadmap laid out for them in (b)(1)
through (b)(3), might seek other ways to recoup what
they were going to lose in revenues when the 3-year
period lapsed, and to be in a position to protect the
railroads in the (b)(4) -- through (b)(4) in a situation
when there would be future actions taken by the States.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- in the legislative
record?
MR. PHILLIPS: Not -- there's very little in
the legislative record, Your Honor, because the -- the
specific formulation of -- of this (b)(4) catch-all
provision comes in very, very late in the 15-year
process. Every other lower court that -- every lower
court that has looked at it has drawn the inference,
which seems to me the only fair inference to draw, when
Congress said: Look, this is not just for in lieu
taxes.
I mean, there was -- there was some debate
about that going on between the House and the Senate,
and the conference committee makes it clear. This is
not just something that's adopted by the States in lieu
of a broader property tax. It is intended, then, to
have, I think, the language that you would normally give
to a term as broad and sweeping as any other tax that
discriminates against rail carriers.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Phillips, this is what
troubles me about -- about your position: You make a
viscerally appealing case on the facts of this case,
where you say that your clients, the railroads, are
being taxed more than competing carriers, truckers
and -- and water carriers.
But if all -- if all it says is
"discriminates," and you think that that has to be
applied without qualification, then even if -- if a
state makes an exemption for, you know, widows over 85
and doesn't make the same exemption for railroads, the
railroads win, right?
MR. PHILLIPS: That -- that -- no, I don't
believe that's the necessary -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? How do you limit the
term "discrimination"? Just a discrimination in favor
of other competing carriers?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think it -- it is
discrimination that Congress would have intended to
prohibit under these circumstances. So I think in the
situation where you are talking about a single exemption
for some group that does not compete or otherwise do any
business with the railroads, we would not have a basis
for saying they were similarly situated -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why do you assume
that? Congress didn't limit it to that in -- in the
property tax exemption.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it -- it did to some
extent, because there was a whole question about how -
you know, you had a whole comparative class that
Congress defines in the property context. So you make a
context between the industrial and commercial property
and the railroads' property. So Congress defined the
comparison class, but I don't think it's fair -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But not -- not just the
industrial and -- and commercial competitors with the
railroads. The railroads were to be given, you know,
the most favored treatment of -- of all the industrial
and -- and commercial entities, I -- I think.
MR. PHILLIPS: To be sure, Justice Scalia,
but it was still as compared to the entirety of the
industrial and commercial property base, and it was -
and the analysis has traditionally been the averages of
the commercial industrial property.
So you -- and part of the problem here -
it's not a problem, but, you know, one of the reasons
why you can't make direct comparisons is that because of
ACF Industries, you don't evaluate exemptions under
(b)(1) to (b)(3) -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in this case -
correct me if I'm wrong -- off-road users, agricultural
users, and construction and timber companies -
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- have the same -- have
the same tax structure as the railroads.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So there is an objective
reference, neutral, and it seems to me that that's just
quite rational to put the railroads there and not in the
category of road -- road users.
Now, if -- unless you are arguing the
discrimination has to have -- has to have a purposive
component. That might give you a different case. I'm
not sure you prevail on that, either.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, but -- remember,
Justice Kennedy, we don't even get to this issue if what
you say is we are going to take all exemptions off the
table. And I guess I would go back to Justice Scalia's
point, which is that there is a reason why this is a
viscerally satisfying case, because we are talking here
about a discrimination.
You know, when Congress says, we want to -
we want to eliminate any tax that discriminates against,
the one thing it seems to me, clearly, Congress did not
intend to exclude from that was a tax that discriminates
against the -- the immediate direct competitors of the
railroads in a way that would undoubtedly undermine the
stability of the -- the financial stability and success
of the railroad.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought the concern was
that the interstate actors should not be disadvantaged
vis-à-vis the home people, the local businesses, and
that was what was achieved.
But you're -- you are not complaining about
discrimination against a railroad in comparison to local
businesses. You -- you are complaining about that you
are not getting most-favored-nations treatment vis-à-vis
other interstate carriers.
MR. PHILLIPS: That's -- that's correct,
Justice Ginsberg, but I think the premise of your -- of
your question is the place where we would probably
differ, which is: To be sure, Congress intended to
protect interstate carriers against discrimination in
favor of local operations. That's clear in (b)(1)
through (b)(3) and otherwise pervades the legislative
history.
But there is also a significant amount of
discussion in that same legislative history to encourage
intermodal competition; that is, competition between the
railroads and others, both intrastate and interstate.
And so it seems to me that the statute that's -- that
prohibits all discrimination against rail carriers,
identified as carriers -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose a -- suppose a tax
were structured so that the same tax applied to
railroads and -- and -- and motor transport, but because
of the way the tax was assessed, the railroads paid far
more per mile than -- than the -- than the road
transport. Could the railroad then come in and say:
Oh, we want to be like the farmers; we are off-road?
I mean, I can see you making that
argument -
MR. PHILLIPS: I can see us making that
argument -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- in case -- in case
number two, welcome back. That's going to be your
argument.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I always like to come
back, but I don't -- I think the answer to that is -
again, I think the -- the Court ought to interpret the
term "discrimination" against the clear objectives that
Congress intended to fulfill when it protected the
railroads this way.
And the two protections that are embedded in
there is one that Justice Ginsberg identified, which was
to protect them against local interests in a way where
they had no political influence, and the other one is to
protect them against their direct competitors in the
intermodal competition realm. And if it's -- if it's a
discrimination that doesn't achieve either of those,
then it seems to me you either say they are -- are not
similarly situated or you would held -- you would hold
that the State has a legitimate reason for doing what
it's doing, and that that's just not a discrimination
within the meaning of the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so 85-year-old widows
would be covered? That would be discrimination because,
you know, there are only resident 85-year-old widows who
are covered, right?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, they would have -- they
would be, to be sure, local interests. But I think the
problem with this is, and it goes to the core argument
that the State makes, which is: How are you supposed to
define "local business" for these purposes.
And I don't think the -- the answer to that
is: I have no way to know that, because Congress didn't
purport to define the comparison class for purposes of
(b)(4). It seems to me that when Congress said "any
other tax" -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I agree with that, and that
makes me suspect that Congress didn't -- didn't want to
forbid exemptions in (b)(4).
MR. PHILLIPS: But it seems to me quite -- I
mean, the flip side of that argument would be to say, if
they imposed the tax of 4 percent on the railroads and
2 percent on 85-year-old widows, that would be
challengeable under (b)(4), because it's not an
exemption, it's a differential, and that the exemption
down to zero is -- is attackable under (b)(4).
It seems to me the right answer to this is,
there is no reason to include your widow as a relative
comparison class for purposes of (b)(4) and get out of
that problem as opposed to setting this up.
To me, the fallacy of this analysis is to
try to use exemptions and say that there is something
special about exemptions beyond the (b)(1), (b)(3)
context where Congress clearly acted, recognizing that
it had to protect the States' ability to have exemptions
for property taxes.
But then Congress goes to non-property taxes
and to other taxes not covered by (b)(1) and (b)(3).
Then, it seems to me, you have to -- you just should
change the analysis. Look at whether or not similarly
situated are being treated differently and if there is
any kind of State justification for that, and if not, go
through the analysis in the way -- and protect the
railroads precisely the way that Congress meant for them
to be protected.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Phillips, are you
saying that the -- the railroads have to be taxed in the
very same way as, say, the -- the trucks? Because one
answer to your argument is: Well, they haven't created
a non-tax situation for the other interstate carriers;
they are just subject to a different tax. The motor
carriers have to pay motor fuel tax.
So are you saying to the State about that,
you have to have the same sales tax, use tax, for
everyone; you can't have a motor fuel tax for one and
sales tax for the other?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think, ultimately, my
conclusion would be that you can't have one -- you can't
have this kind of a tax on us and not tax the motor
carriers the same way. But I do think it's important to
recognize two considerations, at least as this case
comes to this Court.
One is that the State and the trial court
conceded that the appropriate comparison class was the
motor and water carriers. So the question of who is
the -- who is properly in the comparison class has never
been adjudicated.
And second, it seems to me that the question
of what constitutes discrimination is not the issue in
this case. The only question in this case is whether
there is something special about exemptions that makes
them off-limits to the (b)(4) inquiry.
So I think, candidly, Justice Ginsburg,
while I'm quite certain that Alabama and I would
disagree fundamentally about how to approach this, it
doesn't seem to me that that's a question that this
Court should tarry long over, and instead ought to
simply evaluate the very narrow question that was both
presented by the holding below and presented in the
petition as it came through the Solicitor General's
invitation stage, which again, as I say, very narrowly
focuses exclusively on exemptions, and of course allow
us to have them.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, why does the course
for the court -- taking account of what you said, that
the provision about other taxes came out very late in
the day -- they had spent a lot of time talking about
the property tax. And the property tax, we know, they
wanted to preserve the exemptions.
So why not take this latecomer of thought or
discussion and say: Well, we'll assume that they want
to treat that with regard to exemptions the same way
that they treated property tax, which was the big-ticket
item.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think part of the
reason, it may well be because the property tax was a
big-ticket item, so you were trying to protect certain
State interests, and Congress did it very clearly. I
think it is quite a remarkable stretch of -- of
construction of the statute for the Court to say, we're
going to take this very carefully reticulated scheme,
which creates the inference that Congress meant to
protect these kinds of exemptions for the States, and
say we are going to now incorporate that wholesale, when
Congress didn't use language that in any way compares.
It didn't include -- it didn't limit it to
railroad property. It didn't define a class in any
particular way, and instead, it basically said, what we
need here is something that will protect the railroads
when the States become more innovative and come forward
with additional problems.
And we would leave it to the courts,
unfortunately -- I recognize that is not the most
satisfying solution sometimes, but we will leave it to
the courts to decide what forms of discrimination we
would have intended to preclude, because we are here to
protect the railroads.
If there are no further questions, I would
like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Phillips.
Ms. Sherry.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MELISSA A. SHERRY,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MS. SHERRY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The only question that the Court needs to
resolve today is whether a non-property tax that's
imposed on a rail carrier but from which its competitors
are exempt can ever be another tax that discriminates
against a rail carrier under subsection (b)(4). The
answer is yes.
A lot of the Court's questions focus on some
of the difficulties that are inherent in a
discrimination inquiry, but as Mr. Phillips pointed out,
those difficulties are just as inherent in a
discrimination inquiry under (b)(4), whether we are
talking about exemptions or whether we are talking about
differential tax rates or whether we are talking about
any other type of discrimination claim that can be
brought under (b)(4). That is the very nature of
(b)(4): It broadly prohibits another tax that
discriminates against a rail carrier, and inherent is
that is the notion that courts are going to have to
decide what it means to discriminate.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think we have to
decide whether the appropriate comparison class is the
rail carriers' competitors or some broader class?
MS. SHERRY: I don't think the Court has to
decide it. As Mr. Phillips pointed out, that was an
issue that was conceded below by the State, at least at
this stage of the proceedings. And they acknowledged
that in note 7 of their brief, so it wasn't something
that was addressed by the Eleventh Circuit below.
I think, as the Court wants to address it,
it should reject the notion that the only comparison
class in a (b)(4) case, no matter what the (b)(4) case
looks like, is all other commercial and industrial
taxpayers. And I think the Court should reject that
primarily because that's not what the tax says.
If you look at the language of (b)(4), it
talks about another tax that discriminates against a
rail carrier. Congress easily could have said another
tax that discriminates against a rail carrier, as
compared to other commercial and industrial taxpayers,
and it didn't do that.
And Justice Ginsburg, to your question
involving whether we should be focusing on interstate
versus local businesses and whether that was Congress's
focus, of course that was -- that was certainly one of
their concerns, but the reason that doesn't work is if
you look to even subsections (b)(1) through (3), the
comparison that is very clearly spelled out there is not
between local businesses and interstate businesses; it's
between rail transportation property and other
commercial and industrial property.
Now, that other commercial and industrial
property can be owned by an interstate business like
Wal-Mart just as easily as it can be owned by a local
coffee shop, and so I think to suggest that the only
thing Congress wanted to prohibit was this local
interstate type of discrimination is not borne out by
the text. If you look at subsection (b)(4), we think
the language speaks for itself. It speaks broadly of
another tax that discriminates against a rail carrier.
Another question that a number of you have
asked is why Congress would want to treat property
taxes' exemptions differently than non-property tax
exemptions, and I think the answer has to come from the
text.
In ACF, this court concluded that Congress
did not want to prohibit property tax exemptions based
on the text of the statute and its structure. And when
it comes to non-property taxes, the text of the act and
the structure of the act simply tell a different story,
and that has to be the best indicator of what Congress
intended.
Again, subsection (b)(4) speaks broadly of
another tax that discriminates against a rail carrier.
This court has long recognized that taxes can
discriminate in a number of different ways, including by
granting some taxpayers an exemption and not granting
that exemption to other taxpayers. That's the ordinary
meaning of "discriminates," and the broad and
unqualified language in (b)(4) is easily susceptible to
that meaning.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Sherry, there seems to
be a question as to what remedy somebody would be
entitled to under subsection (c) in the challenge
brought against a tax exemption. So what's the
government's position on that?
MS. SHERRY: The government's position,
first with respect to subsection (c), is that it is a
broad grant of jurisdiction to the district courts to
adjudicate all violations of subsection (b), and that
seems clear from the first sentence in that provision.
I'd also note that the arguments that were
made with respect to subsection (c) in this case were
brought up by the government in ACF; and in ACF the
government explained why the best reading of subsection
(c) is a broad grant of jurisdiction over all violations
of subsection (b). That's clearly what Congress
intended.
While Congress intended to provide a
substantive right for rail carriers to come into court
and claim discrimination on one of the four -- under one
of the four subsections, it also intended to provide a
Federal forum. And the reason that it did that was
because at the time, rail carriers were having a very
hard time bringing claims in the State court. The Tax
Injunction Act was out there then, as it is now, and it
does provide an -- exception, rather -- for when State
court remedies are not plain, speedy, and efficient.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think Justice Kagan
meant to ask, assuming that we say yes, it -- it
applies; exemptions don't count -- are included in
whether there is discrimination, and the Court finds
discrimination between the way the railroad is taxed and
the way motor carriers are taxed, what -- what then?
What is the remedy?
MS. SHERRY: I think in that type of case
the remedy would be for the rail carrier to be exempt
from the tax, and that's because what subsection (c)
provides -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Without -- without
putting on -- I mean, the motor carriers do have the
tax.
MS. SHERRY: Oh, I apologize. I should back
up. I am assuming that when you said that the Court
found that there was discrimination, the Court had
already engaged in inquiry as to whether or not this
other tax compensates for or provides a justification
for any differential treatment.
If the -- the Court were to find
discrimination but find that maybe, you know, 50 percent
of the tax was compensated by this other tax, it could
remedy that situation by only enjoining, and it should
remedy the situation by only enjoining, the
discriminatory portion of the tax.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well -- well, but in
any case when you have discrimination, you can remedy it
by reducing the tax, for example, in this case on the
railroad or by increasing the tax on the people who are
otherwise exempt.
MS. SHERRY: And I don't -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A decision that I
suppose would be left at some point or another up to the
State.
MS. SHERRY: It would certainly be left up
to the State and the State could choose to remedy it
in -- in any number of different ways, including the one
that Your Honor suggests, but the remedy that is
actually provided for in subsection (c) for the Federal
court to issue is to enjoin the discriminatory portion
of the tax, and the focus is on the tax -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the
discriminary -- the discriminary portion of the tax may
be regarded as the excess that is imposed on the
railroad or the deficiency on -- on the others.
MS. SHERRY: I -- I think it's better
understood as -- as -- as speaking specifically to the
tax itself, and not to the tax exemption. And in fact,
in the -- at the cert stage when the government
suggested a reformulated question presented, it
reformulated the question to better focus on the fact
that this is a challenge to a discriminatory tax and not
to a discriminatory tax exemption.
And I think the State in -- in its
supplemental brief at the cert stage acknowledged that
is the better way and correct way, in fact, to look at
these type of challenges and what the appropriate remedy
would be.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You present the case to us
as if it's either/or: That we must either in
disagreement with your position, to say that it doesn't
apply to exemptions; or if it applies to exemptions, it
must be remanded. Can we say that the exemptions are
not covered by the act unless the railroad is a target
of an -- an isolated target and it's clear that it's
discriminatory?
I mean, do we have to have your either/or
position?
MS. SHERRY: I -- I don't know that the
Court has to -- has to go with one or the other, but I
think the Court should not hold that it only applies to
exemptions to the -- to the extent it's the type of tax
where it's generally applicable on its face, but
everyone is exempt except for the rail carriers, or
everyone is exempt except for the rail carriers and
maybe some targeted and isolated group, as - as this
Court recognized in ACF.
And the reason I think that is so is because
that's what the language provides in (b)(4). Certainly
Congress was concerned with taxes that would single out
a rail carrier, but that wasn't their only concern. And
an example that I've thought of but I think helps put
that into some perspective is: I think Alabama would
concede that if instead of imposing a generally
applicable sales tax, it had a separate excise tax on
diesel fuel for use in locomotives, and it was a 4
percent tax, looks exactly like the one we are looking
at, except it is an a separate excise tax, that that
would be the type of singled-out tax that could be
challenged under (b)(4).
And it makes little sense that they -- that
a State could basically insert that type of tax into a
generally applicable sales tax and that would be
immunized from any scrutiny. The adverse economic
impact on the rail carriers is the same whether you are
looking at a singled-out tax or whether you are looking
at a generally applicable -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't make any -- any
sense, you are quite right; but -- but Congress thought
it made sense in (1) to (3), so why doesn't it make
sense in (4)?
MS. SHERRY: I think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the argument.
MS. SHERRY: I think the reason that
Congress thought it made sense in (1) through (3) and
the reason that this Court in ACF concluded that
Congress wanted to permit property tax exemptions is
because of the language of (1), (2) -- (1) through (3),
and because of the very specific comparison class that
is provided there. That is noticeably absent from
(b)(4), and in fact wouldn't really work in (b)(4).
And what I mean by that is if you look at
(b)(1) and you look at (b)(3), it's a comparison between
transportation rail property on the one hand and
commercial and industrial property on the other; and as
we all know, commercial and industrial property is
specifically defined to -- may I finish?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can finish the
sentence.
MS. SHERRY: I don't know if I will get to
the point, but suffice it to say -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Use a lot of conjunctions.
(Laughter.)
MS. SHERRY: I'm not surprised.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Don't even try.
MS. SHERRY: The point is: (B)(4) doesn't
talk about property; it talks about discrimination
against the rail carrier, and the comparison class is
nowhere to be found in that subsection.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
General Maze.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF COREY L. MAZE
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. MAZE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Justice Kennedy, you hit on the proper
definition of a tax that discriminates in this case. A
tax that discriminates under (b)(1), (2), and (3) is a
tax that singles out railroads as compared to the
general mass of taxpayers. So another tax that
discriminates is a tax that singles out railroads as
compared to the general mass of taxpayers.
The pivotal question in this case is the one
raised by Justice Kagan and Justice Scalia, and that is:
Why in the world would Congress, on the one hand, say
you can exempt property taxes under this statute, but
you can't -- you -- we are prohibiting sales and use tax
exemptions, when for 15 years Congress never had a
single hearing, a single study, and never even heard a
single complaint from the railroads about discriminatory
sales and use taxes?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it may be because
the universe of non-property taxes is -- so infinitely
large that there's a much greater room for -- a much
great danger of discrimination. We know all States have
property taxes.
MR. MAZE: Right. But again, I think the
answer is what Justice Ginsberg was pointing out, that
we would say the United States and CSX still has not
come up with a good reason. They basically said -- the
United States said, you just look at the statute and it
tells a different story.
There are three good reasons that Congress
would have intended, and the Court should read property
tax exemptions and non-property tax exemptions to be
read the same way, and the first one is the one that
Justice Ginsberg was pointing out: The purpose of the
statute was to protect out-of-State, interstate
businesses from being easy prey in the State
legislature. They don't have voting power.
But if you put an interstate business in the
generally applicable tax scheme, that means they are
paying the same tax as the local businesses and local
taxpayers. They are protected. If the tax rate goes
up, the local businesses, the local taxpayers, will
protect them. If too many exemptions occur, the local
taxpayers and the local businesses will protect them.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you are arguing in
favor of -- you are arguing in favor of a very
idiosyncratic interpretation of the concept of a
discriminatory tax, aren't you?
In almost any other context, granting tax
exemptions to one group but denying them to another
group would be viewed as -- if there isn't a good reason
for drawing the distinction, as discrimination, wouldn't
it?
MR. MAZE: Yes. I definitely agree, as an
abstract matter, an exemption could be a tax that
discriminates. But what Congress has told us in (1)
through (3) with regard to property taxes is you can
grant an exemption, and Congress didn't want to -- and
they also told us -
JUSTICE ALITO: And it did so with explicit
language by -- in -- what is it -- (a)(4), by referring
to property that is subject to a property tax levy.
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: So what you're saying is
that the ordinary interpretation of the concept of a
discriminatory tax should not be applied here, because
Congress used specific language to take tax exemptions
out of the determination of discrimination under other
provisions.
MR. MAZE: My -
JUSTICE ALITO: What sense does that make?
MR. MAZE: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE ALITO: What sense does that make?
The fact that they specifically took it out of some
provisions but not out of this provision, you think,
leads to the implication that they meant to put it in
here, too, where they could have easily used language
here to put it in.
MR. MAZE: Right. Well, I would say that
Congress wasn't even thinking about non-property tax
exemptions when they wrote before.
But the answer is: Our argument is to say
that we understand from the structure of the statute as
a whole that Congress didn't intend to preempt the
State's ability to issue tax exemptions.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. May I pose a
hypothetical so that I understand? And I think it
follows up on what Justice Alito was saying.
Let's assume all taxes are equal between
water carriers and railroads, except there is an excise
tax: 4 percent on the railroads, 2 percent on the water
carriers.
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Everybody else pays
4 percent. On your theory, is that discrimination or
not?
MR. MAZE: No, because they are paying a
generally applicable 4 percent tax. Again, remember, in
the property tax -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But this is not an
exemption area, so what meaning do you give -- that's
what I'm trying to figure out. Are you saying -- what
meaning are you giving to discrimination at all, other
than -- unless we accept that the class always has to be
the commercial class?
MR. MAZE: I'm giving the meaning the same
meaning that the Court suggested in ACF; that is, (b)(4)
is a tax. Another tax that discriminates is one that
singles out the railroads.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you can single
out the railroads through exemptions. I mean, let's say
you have a tax of $1,000 per mile per day for anything
that uses a thoroughfare in the State. However, things
that use roads, waterways, you know, the long list that
in effect leaves only the railroads exposed.
You are saying that can't be regarded as a
tax that discriminates against the railroads?
MR. MAZE: I'm saying that a tax that in
effect, in the end, singles out the railroads because
they are the only ones that pay it; that would be
discrimination.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So what if
there's only two that pay it? Only -- and it applies
only to railroads and bicycles?
MR. MAZE: Well, then again, the tax
wouldn't be generally applicable. This is what the
Court went over in ACF. In this case, the parties
agreed -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We can determine
that a tax is not generally applicable based on the
exemptions. If everybody else is exempt, well, it's not
generally applicable. If just bicycles are also exempt,
then it is not generally applicable. We have to look at
the exemptions to decide whether there is
discrimination.
MR. MAZE: No. Actually, you are not
supposed to look at the exemptions at all. If you think
about property taxes, when you have a generally
applicable property tax, exemptions are removed from the
comparison class. All you are looking at are the
businesses that pay the tax. In that case, as long as
the businesses that pay the tax are paying the same
rate -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if there's 100
businesses, where does the line between singling out the
railroad get drawn? When they exempt 98? When they
exempt 97? When they exempt 95, or is it at 80? Where
do we draw the singling out? If the State says the
general tax is 4 percent, but everybody -- but how many
are exempted?
MR. MAZE: Well, again, I would say that you
use the phrase -- see, I know that singling out is not
the best answer, but the lower courts have looked at it.
We have seen cases where even 80 percent -- as long as
20 percent of the businesses in the State are paying it,
it's generally applicable.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What sense would there
be for Congress to use the word "discriminate" and
intend, in the hypothetical I gave you earlier, that
railroads will pay 4 percent like everyone else, but
their competitors, for no reason other than that the
State wants to favor the water carrier, is only paying
2 percent? What -- what conceivable reason would
Congress want that differential to exist?
MR. MAZE: Because Congress understood that
exemptions for individual businesses -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not talking about an
exemption. I'm talking about a rate difference.
MR. MAZE: If you are given a rate
difference, a benefit of any kind to an individual
business, Congress understood that that is important to
the State.
Let's say, for example, we had a business
who's has had an economic crisis or we want to bring a
new business into the State. Congress understood that
is important to the State tax policy. The point of the
statute was simply to put the railroads on equal
footing.
Again, if you think back to property taxes,
we can treat trucks however we want to. We could exempt
them. We can treat them at a different rate. As long
as the railroads are paying an equal rate to the general
mass, it's not discrimination.
JUSTICE ALITO: So it's a commodity that is
purchased by only railroads and one other class, and
there is a 4 percent sales tax on this commodity, but
the other class is exempt from the tax. Now, is that -
is that discrimination against the railroad?
MR. MAZE: Can you explain the classes
again?
JUSTICE ALITO: Let's say there is some
commodity that is purchased only by railroads and
truckers, and there is a 4 percent tax on the commodity,
but truckers are exempt from it -- from the tax.
Is that discrimination against the railroad,
even though it takes the form of -- it's not
discrimination against the railroad because it takes the
form of a tax exemption?
MR. MAZE: No. Again, in that instance,
like the Court said in ACF, that would be a case in
which the railroads had been singled out, because only
two businesses were paying the tax. One has been
exempted; then the railroads are only one left paying
it.
JUSTICE ALITO: Once you say that, your
argument that exemptions can't count as discrimination
is destroyed, because you are conceding that an
exemption can constitute discrimination.
MR. MAZE: At that point, as the Court said
in ACF, it's not an exemption scheme anymore. At this
point, it's just a tax on the railroads. Again, there
is no reason in the text or the structure or the history
of the act to treat property taxes any differently than
sales and use taxes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then you need to give us a
test, and the test is whether or not the railroad is
singled out as a target group for discrimination.
MR. MAZE: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Something like that -- for
discrimination, something like that.
MR. MAZE: And that's the test that just
Judge Posner gave in the ACF case. That's the test that
the Court suggested in ACF. That's the test that the
Eleventh Circuit used here. You know, one of the
problems -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Just so
I follow: And that test says what?
MR. MAZE: The test is -- as long as it is a
generally applicable tax that does not single out or
target the railroads, it is not subject to challenge.
In fact, the Court -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sure I'm just
repeating myself here. So that it doesn't single it out
if there's one additional business or line of business
subject to the tax, no matter how small that exemption
is?
MR. MAZE: You mean how small the business
is that is actually paying the tax?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. MAZE: That's a question for the
Court -- excuse me, choked. That would be a question
for the Court, yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Exactly. So the
Court has to decide, even when you are dealing with
exemptions, whether or not that discriminates against
the railroad?
MR. MAZE: Right. But it's the same test.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If I'm right, that
means you lose the case -
MR. MAZE: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- at least as the
question presented has been addressed, because all we
are deciding -- I understand you think we ought to
decide more, but all we are deciding is: Can (b)(4)
ever come into play when the discrimination arises from
an exemption?
MR. MAZE: No. The question presented
precisely is whether a State's exemptions of rail
carrier competitors, but not rail carriers, from a
generally applicable sales and use tax. In this case,
we've already presumed that the fact has been
established that this a generally applicable tax. The
Eleventh Circuit has already made that determination.
CSX and the United States agree with it. There is no
question in this case that it is generally applicable.
The only question is: Under the test we
have just articulated, does it single out the railroads?
No. Everybody agrees it's a generally applicable tax.
Thus, as a matter of law, it cannot be another tax that
discriminates.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So to answer that
question, you are telling us that we have to define what
discrimination means?
MR. MAZE: I think inherently you have to
understand what another tax that discriminates is before
you can say whether something is subject to challenge as
another tax that discriminates.
One of Justice Scalia's points earlier was
to Mr. Phillips, there is no limiting principle if you
treat property tax exemptions differently than
non-property taxes, and not only can they change the
comparison class, the railroads do. They will argue
against the States' different comparison classes. Take
Justice Kennedy's example: If the local farmers are
exempt, they would argue that that is discrimination
against interstate commerce; again, the phrase Congress
used to bind the four together.
We've had cases at the same time that
Burlington Northern was arguing the diesel fuel cases on
an interstate competitor class. They turned around at
the same time in Wyoming and argued that a coal
transportation tax is discriminatory because it singled
them out versus -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's what
railroads do.
MR. MAZE: Sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it still doesn't
get to the question that in courts in each particular
case will be able to decide, even under your test,
whether it singles out railroads.
The only question I have is that whether
singling out means railroads have to be the only
business subject to it, or if it has to be, you know,
some theory -- Justice Kennedy was looking for a test.
I don't know if we have got a workable one -- to decide
when it's really discriminating against the railroad and
when it's that the exceptions are just the way
taxes normally work.
MR. MAZE: And, again, if we adopt a test,
which we believe is the right test, the Eleventh Circuit
has already done it in this case. This would be a
question for another case. Again, there is no more
generally applicable tax than Alabama's 4 percent sales
and use tax.
JUSTICE BREYER: Haven't you just pushed all
the difficult questions into the word "generally
applicable"? I imagine a fuel tax applies to everybody
in the State, but then we exempt everybody who does
business in the State with fuel.
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Except for railroads.
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, now. You want
to call that not a generally applicable class? Do you
want to call it a discrimination against railroads? It
seems to me about the same question.
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So why isn't
the easiest thing to say, since there's so many other
questions involved in discrimination: Yes, the clause
applies? What counts is a discrimination is an
obviously difficult question, and we will send it back
for somebody else to wrestle with this, since it's so
difficult.
MR. MAZE: Here's the problem the State has
with that -- and you almost channelled what Mr. Phillips
said earlier -- that we leave it to courts to determine
discrimination.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the choice?
MR. MAZE: Well, this is a State tax. Under
the clear statement rule -- we detrimentally rely on
these statutes when we determine whether we can tax
someone or not. Now, you know, if the courts were to
say, you can't prospectively tax because you lose,
that's one thing, but we have taxed the railroads for
years -
JUSTICE BREYER: I realize that, but what
they are worried about is somebody that's having passed
on the property level -
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- thinks I have a great
revenue-raising idea. What we do is tax the New York
Central, and then they sit down with a bunch of lawyers
and the lawyers say: Oh, great, they come through this
State; what we'll do is we'll have a tax that applies to
all fuel and then we will exempt everybody except the
New York Central. All right. Great.
We've now found a replacement of the revenue
that they just said in Congress we couldn't have in the
first three provisions.
MR. MAZE: Right. And, again, that would be
the test that we've talked about -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, because you're saying
that's not generally applicable. They are saying sure
it is, read the first line, applies to everybody.
You say no, no, no. That's a trick because
of the second line. So now what we will do is we'll
monkey around with it a little bit. And we will make it
tough.
All I'm saying is that's precisely the same
question in that context as whether it's discriminates
or not. I'm not saying it's an easy question. I'm just
saying it might be clearer if we said, yes, the thing
applies, now go work out the hard question of whether
you had have got a discriminatory tax.
MR. MAZE: And -- and, again, the problem we
would have with that is now you are going to have two
different definitions of what another tax that
discriminates in (b)(4) for property taxes, which CSX
agreed applies to property taxes -
JUSTICE BREYER: The property taxes, the
language is different.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't understand your
last answer. What was it?
MR. MAZE: CSX argues on page 8 and 9 of the
reply brief that with regard to property taxes (b)(4)
would apply if the tax singles out the railroads. But
now they are arguing another tax that discriminates, the
very same phrase means any differential treatment of any
kind when it comes to non-property taxes. To agree that
the test would be different is not only not clearly
required by the statute, it would be illogical, because
what happens is, you can have an infinitely broad
definition of discriminate. Any treatment that we do
differently for non-property taxes is discrimination,
which not only does it make note -- the most favored
taxpayer, they might as well be considered charities,
billion dollar charities. We could -- we could never
tax them at all, because we exempt someone from every
single tax we levy. For example -
JUSTICE BREYER: You are assuming how the
Court will decide the word "discriminate."
MR. MAZE: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: I understand what you are
saying, and so would every other judge. And of course,
it's hard to figure out in these contexts what is real
discrimination, but there could be obvious cases. And
so why cut out the obvious cases simply because it's
hard in a non-obvious case to figure it out?
MR. MAZE: Because Congress didn't clearly
put in the statute that we want a different definition
for discrimination when we have one.
JUSTICE BREYER: There is no way -- there is
no way with the property -- the property tax is tough.
And once you start taking exemptions into account, it's
double tough, and there is very little need, is there?
Every State in the country has property taxes and every
State in the country has property taxes on businesses.
MR. MAZE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and it might not be
so that every State in the country has particular taxes
on diesel fuel. And it might be that they don't have
taxes on rails, or it might be that they -- you see?
So, I -- I -- that's how I am explaining to myself.
What do you think?
MR. MAZE: I think that if -- well, first of
all, every State taxes diesel, at least for truckers,
and most do for the trains. But if Congress was
thinking about this, they should have told us what
discriminate means. And I think that -- honestly, I
think we should go across the street and have them tell
us. But -- but they are not here and what we are saying
is the easiest way to do this and the proper way to do
it is simply to read the test to be the same as property
for non-property taxes.
If the test is single out railroads when you
are talking about property taxes, it should be the same.
Again, the point would be, we can't tax at all
non-property taxes, at all if the definition literally
is, any differential treatment. Congress never would
have intended to literally prohibit States from
taxing -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's not quite -- it's
not quite that. You forget the other part of the test,
which is without a reason. Now, the other side hasn't
defined what a legitimate reason would be. And that's a
separate inquiry. But if there is a -- some form of
legitimate reason to treat people differently, I think
the other side is saying that's okay.
MR. MAZE: I think the other side would tell
you that we can't give a justification. Again, (b)(1)
(2) and (3) are absolutely -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In their particular
facts of their case. I mean, that's what they have to
come up and explain to us, what's the -- what's the
defining principle of acceptable or unacceptable
different treatment, because it can't be -- you're
right, logically, it can't be most favored taxpayer
status.
MR. MAZE: But that is logically what would
happen.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, so far, yes,
unless they can give -
MR. MAZE: They haven't articulated a way
yet from preventing that from happening.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but I don't understand
why you think it is -- it is more articulable on your
theory than on theirs. I don't see where solving your
predictability problem, you're worried about it, you
know, we don't know how to tax anymore. I don't know
why it's any more certain if we -- if we say the key is
whether it's a generally applicable tax than it is if we
say the key is whether it discriminates against
railroads. I mean it's the same inquiry. So what do
you care? It's just as -- just as unpredictable
ex ante. It's exactly the same inquiry, whether it's
generally applicable or whether it discriminates against
railroads. Isn't -- isn't -- isn't that what you have
been saying?
MR. MAZE: What I have been saying, yes, a
tax doesn't discriminate -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, it's twiddle dum or
twiddle dee, maybe we should, you know, dismiss this as
improvidently granted, it doesn't make any difference.
MR. MAZE: I -- I would have no problem if
you dismiss it improvidently granted.
(Laughter.)
MR. MAZE: I would certainly accept that.
And, again, if the test is the same, the Eleventh
Circuit has already answered the question.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but it's not quite,
because this is the same problem I was raising. You
just shoved the difficult questions into generally
applicable. But you might think of some new ways of
doing it that they don't want. So I would worry about
giving you just the decision where the word in the
statute is "discriminate," and nowhere does it say
"generally applicable." I'd somewhat worry about
whether this statute shoves the same problems into two
words that aren't there as to rather leaving those
problems for resolution under the one word that is
there.
MR. MAZE: The -- the statute actually does
use the word "generally applicable." If you turn to
page 25 of the joint appendix -
JUSTICE BREYER: I'll believe you, I'll
believe you.
(Laughter.)
MR. MAZE: Well, but it makes a good point
in the original version of (b)(3), you could not levy a
tax against a leveler property tax at a tax rate higher
than the tax rate generally -
JUSTICE BREYER: The word -- the word I was
looking at was is 4, impose another tax that
discriminates against a rail carrier providing
transportation, subject to the jurisdiction of the board
under this part. Now, I read all the words of 4, and I
found the word "discriminates," and I did not find the
two words "generally applicable."
MR. MAZE: Right. And you will find the
word "discriminate" at the beginning of each of these
section as well, saying each of these discriminate
against interstate commerce, meaning they all
discriminate in the same manner.
Again, if you think about it, when you have
a specific provision or several specific provisions
followed by a general, you have to give some independent
effect to the specific provision.
Here's the problem with CSX's argument, the
independent effect that they are giving (b)(1), (2), and
(3) for property taxes is that they are narrowing the
prohibition on discriminatory property taxes from the
infinitely broad anything goes discrimination test for
all property taxes, which again is illogical when the
only thing Congress talked about for 15 years was
discriminatory property taxes. The only -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think section
11501(c) is relevant to all these disputes, because one
thing 11501(c) does is give the State a little bit of a
break?
MR. MAZE: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They recognize that
it is hard to have exact equality in terms of ad valorem
property assessment. So, what does -- what does it say
-- you know, a 5 percent legal room.
MR. MAZE: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Couldn't you, if we
rule against you, when you get back and other State
officials say, look, the one thing we don't have to
worry about is being precise. We have got some legal
room, so we can exempt the 85-year-old widow, we can,
you know, exempt the farm property. We just kind of
have to get it close so that if somebody looks at it,
and they'll say, well, it doesn't really look like they
are discriminating against railroads, why isn't that
pertinent and why doesn't it respond to a lot of your
concerns?
MR. MAZE: Textually that's a problem
because the 5 percent in it only applies to assessment
ratio problems in (b)(1) and (b)(2), and the rest -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I know. I'm
using that not as saying that this is applicable to
(b)(4), but that it gives you an idea that Congress
didn't have the precise absolute rule, and you go one,
you know, 1 inch over the line and you are in trouble.
MR. MAZE: I -- I don't think at that point
the courts have any idea what they can do. What -- what
how does a State know what is over the line and what's
not? I mean, now we know as long as we subject them to
our generally applicable tax, which is what all the
States did when the 4-R Act passed -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you don't know what
"generally applicable" means.
MR. MAZE: It simply means that you apply -
JUSTICE SCALIA: At least I don't know. How
do you know?
(Laughter.)
MR. MAZE: Because I know that everyone who
pays the diesel fuel tax pays 4 percent. It generally
applies to everyone. A -- a problem that you have with
subsection (c), again, and that the United States and
CSX has avoided so far is it is a jurisdictional
problem, and it has been raised as by one of our amici.
Even if there is a (b)(4) violation, which
we obviously don't agree that there is, it says that no
relief can be granted unless have you an assessment
value problem of plus or 5 minus percent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It clearly -- it
clearly applies to (b)(1) through (3) and has got
nothing to do with (b)(4) because it can't apply to
(b)(4).
MR. MAZE: Well, then it says relief can't
be granted.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: (b)(4) is not a -
(b)(4), the whole point is if it's not a property tax,
you don't have ad valorem assessments, so the details
limiting jurisdiction when you do have ad valorem taxes
don't apply to this case at all.
MR. MAZE: The problem with that is -- that
is CSX's argument -- is now you are reading into
Congress's intent for the statute and the moment you
open up to what Congress's intent for the statute is, we
know that Congress didn't intend to make railroads the
most favored taxpayers in any way. The railroads
actually said that themselves. If you start reading
intent into the statute, the intent was simply to put
them on equal footing. So you would have to read (b)(4)
to say, just like property taxes, and non-property taxes
as long as they are subject to a generally applicable
tax there is no discrimination, you are not subject to
challenge. So again, I don't think that would -- would
be an issue.
Now one of the problems I see that the Court
has is this fear that the States are going to take a
generally applicable tax and then all of a sudden start
exempting everyone. Let's say, for example the State of
Alabama sales and use tax. It's not going to happen for
a very simple reason. Our sales and use tax funds our
schools. At the moment we start exempting every single
business, our schools don't have any money. We are not
going to pick on the railroads by exempting, exempting,
exempting, exempting. The railroads, quite honestly,
can't fund our schools. We are having a hard enough
time funding them as it is, and we are not going to just
target railroads by exemption. So I see that the Court
might have a problem understanding what's the line with
exemptions, but it's just never going to happen.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How are these any different
from property taxes? I mean States could say the same
thing about property taxes. Nonetheless it was felt
necessary to specify that -- that exemptions don't
count.
MR. MAZE: Right. But -- but -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Before deciding whether or
not you are discriminating against the railroads.
MR. MAZE: Again, because Congress
understood that exemptions are a -- an integral part of
the State's tax policy. We need to be able to give
exemptions to individual businesses. This is -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm having a problem. I
thought as you argued in your brief that you were only
arguing that States can tax-exempt, but you are asking
us to rule more broadly to say that States can treat -
impose taxes differently.
MR. MAZE: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So it doesn't really
matter that it's a tax exemption; you are just saying if
the tax is a positive imposition or a negative one,
taking someone out, it doesn't matter.
MR. MAZE: Right, because that's the way it
works for property taxes. Let me be very clear what we
are asking the Court to hold. On page 335 of ACF, this
is what the Court held in that case: A State may grant
exemptions from a generally applicable ad valorem
property tax without subjecting the taxation of railroad
property to challenge under (b)(4). All we are asking
the Court to do in this case is substitute three words.
Ad valorem property is out; sales and use tax is in.
There is nothing in the language, the
structure or history of the Act that would suggest, much
less clearly and manifestly mandate, which is necessary
under the clear statement rule, that that rule should be
any different. Again, it would be illogical because it
would be illogical to think that Congress spent 15 years
worried about one problem and that problem is, is the
States were discriminating in property taxes.
But there is one clear, easy way to see that
the railroads didn't really believe that this was a
clear statement against generally applicable sales and
use taxes.
The point was made earlier, the railroads
will sue us all of the time to save money. It's very
telling that the railroads didn't sue any State, despite
we have been taxing this way since the 1930s, until the
late 80s or early 90s under this theory, because even
they when they read this statute, understood it to mean
only if we are singled out or targeted. That's the way
they litigated (b)(4) for the first decade. It's only
when they couldn't win those cases any more that they
changed what they believed it meant.
But the fact that this was able -- again
sales and use taxes is their most expensive tax. And as
they say in the -- in the Norfolk Southern opinion, the
third largest expenditure of the railroads is diesel
fuel. If the third largest expenditure of the railroads
is out there to be taken away -- the taxes, they
certainly would have sued us within the first 10 years
if this statute clearly said we couldn't do it. But
nobody believed that is what the statute said, because
Congress never said it in the entire 15-year history.
The statute itself when you read it doesn't say it.
Just as the Court said in ACF, this statute
is at best vague on the point of tax exemptions. And in
that case, under the clear statement rule, you have to
defer to the State. Congress needs to tell us
specifically what we can and can't do.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what authority do
you have for the proposition that the clear statement
rule applies to the exercise of the congressional power
under the Commerce Clause? Is that -
MR. MAZE: A -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- some general rule that
we've always had?
MR. MAZE: ACF actually applied the clear
statement rule, not only said it applied, it said it
compelled the ruling in this case. The -- I'm sorry,
I've got the page number? In ACF, you said it was -
sorry -- I drew a blank all of a sudden.
Regardless, it's in ACF, the Court said
that -- I'm sorry, it's page 345 of ACF. The Court
said -- "absent unambiguous evidence" was one of the
quotes, and then at the end it said, you have to show
Congress's clear and manifest purpose; and the Court
said because you can't see a clear and manifest purpose,
because there is no unambiguous evidence -- again,
because the statute doesn't talk about tax exemptions at
all.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but in all these years
where they never challenged it, did all these other
States not only tax their diesel fuel, but at the same
time exempt the diesel fuel tax from all their
competitors.
MR. MAZE: Absolutely. We have been doing
it since the 1930s. As you'll see in -
JUSTICE BREYER: What's the rationale, that
the trucks don't have to say it but the railroads do?
MR. MAZE: Because Federal law makes us do
it. Federal law taxes diesel fuel differently on road,
and they makes us -- die -- fuel off-road. And because
they're taxed differently at the Federal level, the
States have had to adopt it. In fact the
Hayden-Cartwright Act up until the 1980s forced us to do
so.
So we have been doing this since the 1930s.
Congress obviously knew we were doing it when we wrote
the "four R" Act. And yet nobody ever complained.
Congress knew exactly -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you counsel.
MR. MAZE: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Phillips, you
have 5 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Just a -- a few quick points. First of all,
with respect to the reason why the States didn't
challenge these tax exemptions earlier; for some of us
it's relatively easy to remember what the price of fuel
oil was back in the 1970s, it was somewhere in the sort
of 10 to 30 cents a gallon range. Therefore exemptions
of that amount of tax, 1 percent exemption of that
amount of tax is not a whole lot of money. Today the
rates are $4 a gallon, and an exemption under those
circumstances, particularly when you have a fixed rate
for your major competitor, gives you a more than
substantial incentive to bring an action under these
circumstances.
The notion that somehow the -- the State has
gone down this path because of Federal law has not been
true for at least 15 years. That statute was repealed
and Alabama could have modified its tax however it
wanted to and chose not to do so.
Justice Alito, your hypothetical I think is
almost exactly this case, because as my friend
indicated, diesel fuel is by far the biggest expense
that the railroads have. It's also a very significant
expense for the motor carriers, and it is a pretty
trivial expense for everybody else in the -- in the
State of Alabama.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Phillips, do you agree
that -- that, generally applicable produces the same -
requires the same inquiry as discriminates?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, you're ultimately going
to have to come down to the same issue, and the problem
is, and I -- the reason why I -- I find it hard to
accept Justice Kennedy's formulation, which is simply
singling out the railroads, because in ACF the Court
sort of said well, we will hold that out as a
possibility. If you're doing -- you know, it would be
one thing if you are just singling them out.
But it seems to me that in a statute like
(b)(4), where you -- where you are more broadly, and you
don't have the (b)(1) to (b)(3) baggage to deal with
property taxes, the idea that you would then limit
(b)(4) solely to the situation of singling out is -- is
simply not a fair way to characterize it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So give me a definition
of discriminate. Give me your working -- it can't -- as
I started to ask your adversary, it can't be most
favored taxpayer status. True?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. It has to be that -
the traditional and common understanding of discriminate
is that you treat similarly situated individuals
differently without -- with an adequate justification.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what constitutes an
adequate justification?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it depends on the -
it's going to depend on the tax, and I don't know the
answer in this context, because as Justice Alito's
question reveals -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well -
MR. PHILLIPS: -- it could be that the vast
majority of diesel fuel is -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Stop.
You are going to grant an exemption; you are
going to treat someone differently because you are
favoring them for a reason. People don't -- States
don't do these willy-nilly. Either some enterprises or
some individuals, like the 85-year-old widow, you are
sympathetic to her. You want to encourage your water
transport, because it's an industry that is nascent in
your State and you want it to grow, so it's a
pro-competition reason. Are those legitimate? And if
those are -
MR. PHILLIPS: I -- the first one I think
without question.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- what isn't?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think the second one has
more of a problem, because I don't think Congress
intended to allow to you favor direct competitors of the
railroads when the ultimate effect of that may be to
undermine the -- the financial stability of the
railroads.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Give me a working
principle. What does -- how do you define legitimate
and illegitimate, assuming -
MR. PHILLIPS: I would define.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The government reason is
always going to be premised on wanting to favor someone
for a reason.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. I think ultimately
the way to analyze this is case is what was Congress's
ultimate objective. And if the state is putting forward
a legitimate reason that is fully consistent with
Congress's overall objective, then there is no problem.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That is the problem
because there were two objectives. One was to promote
equality with local businesses and the other to promote
equality -
MR. PHILLIPS: Competition among carriers.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right.
MR. PHILLIPS: Which suggests to me that
there are two ways to worry about discrimination. Have
you singled out other carriers for more favorable
treatment? There I think if the answer is per se, if
you do that you lose. And if you are not in that world
and you are talking about some other classes, then it
seems to me it depends on how far you want to go in
terms of how much of an exemption you want to play.
But the important part of this is still and
I think the questions to Mr. Maze reflected is that you
should undertake the inquiry to determine whether there
is discrimination even if the State happens to use the
guise of exemptions as opposed to rate differentials or
anything else.
There is nothing special about exemptions
that takes it off the table. It proposes the Federalism
concerns and that ACF spoke to this issue. ACF said you
should not extend the statute beyond its evident reach
reflecting the (b)(1), (b)(3) and (b)(4) relationship
without a clear statement. That's not what we have in
this case, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Phillips, counsel. Case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
58:2 anymore 34:16 arguing 3:25 13:1,1 14:10
adjudicated 14:5 apologize 21:12 37:20 41:19 17:21,21,25
60:22 55:12 appeals 3:16 argument 1:13 19:19 20:4,11
adversary 57:20 1:15 4:1 10:17,19,22 25:11,11,24
agree 12:5 28:10 applicable 3:19 25:1 26:5 29:13 44:7 46:16
57:7 agreed 31:9 30:4 31:7,11,13 arguments 20:6 49:21,22,25
agricultural 8:6 36:21,24 38:19 articulated 4:9 57:14,16 60:16
23:25 AL 1:7 40:20 45:3,8,25 asked 19:1 back 8:23 10:21
30:13 31:8 Alabama 1:6 3:5 46:4,10,25 asking 51:23 10:24 21:12
35:3,4 14:12 24:6 48:18 49:1,4 52:8,12 33:10 39:13
53:23 50:23 56:17,25 50:15,21 52:10 assessed 10:12 48:4 56:5
Alabama's 38:19 52:25 57:2 assessment baggage 57:14
60:14,14 Alito 17:10 28:1 applied 6:14 47:25 48:15 balance 16:7
23:3 Alito's 58:5 23:10,19 31:4 Assistant 1:18 24:15 27:8
34:19 amici 49:14 40:11,21 41:5 29:20 beginning 47:2
52:16 amicus 1:20 2:8 41:11 48:15 assuming 20:24 behalf 1:16,20
16:12 49:11,20 54:5 21:13 42:7 59:7 1:22 2:4,7,11
11:25 12:15 approved 4:12 53:20
16:21 area 30:7 B benefit 33:1
27:6 29:13 areas 4:11 b 3:23 4:10,10,12 best 19:10 20:9
37:2 41:15 argue 37:13,16 4:12,17,18 5:6 32:9 53:24
60:1 argued 37:22 5:7,10,10,16 better 22:19,24
9:24,25
31:22,23 32:1 52:13 53:25 55:25 60:19 36:11 40:10
42:24 51:20 59:13 60:18,20 choked 35:22 comes 5:17
c 2:1 3:1 19:23 42:14 53:10 17:18 35:5 47:4 54:6
16:18,20 17:7 22:8 24:2 45:19 12:2,17 14:2,4 common 57:23
41:12 18:2,3,24 19:13 53:18 15:20 17:11,12 companies 8:7
43:1 21:6 24:4 26:1 challenge 3:23 17:21 25:7 26:1 comparative
46:12,19 32:18 36:15 19:23 22:25 30:10,11 31:21 7:10
55:6 46:21 35:11 37:7 33:16,18 37:13 compared 7:21
51:22 6:10,11,22 9:18 56:3 classes 33:20 compares 15:18
41:24 20:14,18 21:3 54:25 clear 5:25 9:24 18:12 25:7,11
21:10 23:22,23 challenges 23:5 11:1 20:5 23:13 26:1 31:21
36:15 56:23 37:12 52:23,25 53:25 comparisons 8:2
19:12 CARTER 1:16 channelled 39:17 60:17 compensated
57:13 2:3,13 3:7 characterize clearer 41:4 21:20
20:8 case 3:4,13,13 charities 42:3,4 15:11 18:12 21:16
18:17 14:8,8 17:21,21 25:23 26:3,7 clients 6:9 competition 10:4
33:2,4,6 20:7 21:5,25 30:16 31:3,10 close 48:9 10:4 11:9 59:21
22:1 23:7 26:10 35:7,13,20,24 coal 37:22 competitor 37:21
51:1 26:16 31:8,22 36:4,7 37:25 coffee 18:19 56:11
18:8,13,13 36:16,21 38:5 48:3,17 49:19 15:23 19:3 9:6 11:8 16:18
38:17,18 42:15 49:25 55:19,21 20:14 27:8 17:12 32:17
50:4 52:9
55:3 59:1 congressional 19:5,14 20:14 38:5,11 42:8 13:14 19:9,15
Congress's 18:8 21:13,14,18 51:15 33:12 37:14
59:13,16 23:25 25:4 26:8 46:2 42:17 44:13
considerations 50:19 51:6 52:8 15:20 37:3 59:6 41:20 43:21
consistent 59:15 57:8 25:15 44:2 differently 13:4
58:1 38:4 39:18,24 definitely 28:10 51:25 55:9,11
15:13 Court's 16:22 41:25 42:17 difficult 38:22
60:14 context 7:11,12 11:19 13:1 definitions 41:9 difficulties 16:23
58:5 created 13:12 Department 1:6 direct 8:2 9:6
6:24 COREY 1:22 36:20 41:10,16 60:4 9:11
9:2,4 2:10 26:5 49:13 despite 53:4 disagree 14:13
11:2 12:1 correct 8:6 9:19 CSX's 47:10 destroyed 34:13 disagreement
23:4 50:6 details 50:2 23:9
15:11,15 counsel 26:3 curiae 1:20 2:8 determination discriminary
18:2,20 55:19 60:20 16:12 28:24 36:19 22:16,16
20:11 count 20:25 cut 42:14 determine 31:10 discriminate
24:3,22 34:12 51:13 39:18,23 60:8 17:9 19:15
26:18,21 country 42:23,24 D detrimentally 32:14 41:25
28:12,14 43:2 D 3:1 39:22 42:8 43:11
29:11,15 counts 39:12 danger 27:3 die 55:10 45:12 46:3 47:2
course 14:20,22 day 14:25 30:18 diesel 24:9 37:20 47:3,5 57:19,23
37:17 18:9 42:11 deal 57:14 43:3,8 49:10 discriminates
42:16 court 1:1,13 3:10 dealing 4:10,11 53:15 55:1,2,9 4:14 6:5,13 9:3
47:16 3:16 5:18,19 35:25 56:21 58:9 9:5 16:19 17:7
50:9 10:25 13:25 debate 5:23 differ 9:22 18:1,3,24 19:13
52:20 14:1,15,23 decade 53:9 difference 32:24 19:18 26:10,11
54:1 15:13 16:15,16 decide 16:3 17:9 33:1 45:15 26:14 28:12
58:25 17:13,19,23 17:11,14 31:15 different 8:18 30:14,23 36:1
36:10
41:2 drawing 28:8 entirety 7:21 32:3 33:11,18 expensive 53:13
45:4,8 drawn 5:19 32:2 entities 7:19 33:25 37:16 explain 33:20
57:3 drew 54:14 entitled 19:23 38:24 40:12 44:11
48:11 D.C 1:9,16,19,22 33:13 50:13 55:2 explaining 43:5
52:22 equality 47:24 exempted 32:6 explicit 4:8 28:16
5:4 6:21 E 2:1 3:1,1 ESQ 1:16,18,22 exempting 50:22 exposing 3:22
8:17 earlier 32:15 2:3,6,10,13 50:25 51:2,2,3 extend 60:15
10:7 37:9 39:18 53:2 established 51:3 extent 7:9 23:20
56:3 36:18 exemption 4:19
16:3,24 early 53:6 ET 1:7 6:15,16 7:1,7 F
18:21 easiest 39:10 evaluate 8:3 12:13,13 19:16 face 23:21
21:1,2,14 43:14 14:16 19:17,24 22:21 fact 4:14 22:21
25:25 easily 18:2,18 everybody 29:25 23:1 28:11,14 22:24 23:4 25:9
28:8,24 19:19 29:8 31:12 32:5 30:7 32:24 34:4 29:5 35:12
31:2,16 easy 27:17 41:3 36:24 38:23,24 34:14,16 35:16 36:17 53:12
34:1,3 52:23 56:4 40:12,21 56:24 36:12 51:6 52:3 55:12
economic 24:17 evidence 54:17 56:7,9 58:11 facts 6:8 44:10
36:11 37:4 33:5 54:21 60:5 fair 5:20 7:14
39:6,11 effect 4:1 30:21 evident 60:15 exemptions 3:18 57:17
42:1 30:25 47:9,11 ex 45:7 3:22,23 8:3,22 fallacy 12:19
47:14 59:2 exact 47:24 12:7,20,21,23 far 10:12 44:18
59:24 effects 3:22 exactly 24:10 14:9,20 15:2,5 49:13 56:21
efficient 20:22 35:24 45:7 15:16 17:2 19:2 60:4
22:13,25 11:11 23:8 examine 4:13 23:10,10,11,20 farmers 10:15
26:23 58:14 example 22:1 25:5 26:21 37:15
37:23 either/or 23:8,15 24:5 33:4 37:15 27:13,13,24 favor 6:21 9:24
47:13,17 Eleventh 3:12 42:6 50:22 28:6,23 29:12 28:2,2 32:18
36:19 38:16 exceptions 38:13 31:12,15,18,20 favorable 59:25
28:8 encourage 10:3 exclusively 53:24 54:22 fear 50:20
46:1 55:4 enjoin 22:13 35:22 exist 32:20 56:15
57:10 enjoining 21:21 exempt 16:19 expenditure Federalism
60:6
47:1 57:6 fully 59:15 56:11 42:12,15 47:24
40:16,21 14:13 23:18 41:5 hear 3:3 imposing 24:7
53:9,18 funding 51:5 43:12 48:20 heard 26:22imposition 52:4
58:21 funds 50:24 60:4 hearing 26:22
G 10:21 15:14,17 history 10:1,3
54:8 government 20:8 14:17 incorrect 3:11
36:21,24 38:19 granted 45:15,17 hypothetical
46:4,10,18,25 19:16 28:5 58:15
46:24 50:21 52:10,25 40:10,13 idea 40:8 48:19 7:16,18,22,24
55:17 General's 14:18 group 7:2 23:24 identified 10:8 18:16 25:13,14
37:20 13:9 14:11,22 illogical 41:23 infinitely 27:1
40:12 18:6 20:23 21:9 H 47:15 52:19,20 41:24 47:14
49:10 give 6:3 8:18 hand 25:12 26:18 imagine 38:23 influence 11:7
55:1,2,9 30:7 34:21 44:7 happen 44:17 immediate 9:6 inherent 16:23
56:4,21 44:19 47:8,20 50:23 51:8 immunized 24:17 16:25 17:7
51:19 57:18,19 happening 44:21 impact 24:18 inherently 37:5
happens 41:24 implication 29:7
17:1 50:3 justification 13:5 largest 53:15,16 47:20
44:3 45:5 jurisdictional 21:16 44:7 late 5:17 14:24 local 9:12,15,24
57:3 60:8 49:13 57:25 58:2 53:6 11:6,21,24 18:8
50:9 8:12,21,23 9:10 26:17 law 36:25 55:8,9 locomotives 24:9
11:2 16:4 11:5,16 12:5 4:6 8:5,9,12,21 lawyers 40:9,10 44:16
20:12,13 13:9 14:11,22 10:9,20 23:7 leads 29:7 long 14:15 19:14
27:12 16:8,14 17:10 26:9,25 34:21 leave 15:25 16:2 30:20 31:22
59:1 18:6 19:21 34:25 38:10 39:18 32:10 33:12
21:24 22:5,15 Kennedy's 37:15 leaving 46:6 50:15
25:16,20,23 key 45:2,4 legal 48:1,6 17:25 18:11,22
26:25 27:6,15 41:21 48:8 5:15 9:25 10:3 27:9 31:14,18
30:6,16 31:3,10 know 6:15 7:10 44:2,4 58:19 looking 24:10,19
10:5 33:15,22 34:11 11:18 12:1 15:1 let's 29:20 30:17 38:10 46:20
18:7,13 34:21,25 35:7 21:19 23:17 33:4,22 50:22 looks 17:22
27:16 35:13,20,24 25:14,18 27:3 level 40:5 55:11 24:10 48:9
37:17,21 36:4,7 37:2,9 30:20 32:8 35:5 leveler 46:17 lose 5:8 36:5
37:15,25 38:3 38:9,11 39:24 levy 28:18 42:6 39:25 60:2
22:13 46:12,19 47:18 limiting 37:10
50:18 47:23 48:3,17 50:3
60:14 49:3,6,19,25 line 32:1 35:15
15:18 17:25 mandate 52:17
55:6 48:24 51:7
list 30:20
57:1,7,18 literally 43:20,22
MELISSA 1:18 41:21 42:1 oral 1:12 2:2,5,9
48:1,15
56:7
28:11 mile 10:13 30:18 non-tax 13:13 ordinary 19:17
36:25 mine 5:1 Norfolk 3:12,14 28:21 permit 25:5
60:22 minus 49:18 53:14 original 46:16
27:5 modified 56:17 38:14 14:15 36:9
29:1,3 moment 50:7,25 Northern 37:20 out-of-State
30:3 money 51:1 53:3 note 17:17 20:6 27:16 14:18
31:6 56:8 42:2 overall 4:13
32:7,21 monkey 40:24 noticeably 25:8 59:16 1:21 2:4,8,14
33:20 morning 3:4 notion 17:8,20 owned 18:17,18
16:13 55:24
35:2 most-favored-... 56:14 Phillips 1:16 2:3
36:3 9:17 November 1:10 P 2:13 3:6,7,9 4:6
37:5 motor 10:11 number 10:21 P 3:1 4:25 5:14 6:6
39:1,3 13:14,15,18,22 18:25 19:15 page 2:2 3:15 6:18,23 7:8,20
40:6 14:3 21:3,10 22:10 54:13 41:16 46:11 8:8,11,20 9:19
41:7,16 56:23 52:8 54:13,16 10:18,23 11:20
43:7 O paid 10:12 12:8 13:9,20
N O 2:1 3:1 part 7:25 15:8 15:8 16:9,24
N 2:1,1 3:1 objective 8:12 43:25 46:23 17:14 37:10
47:1,22 narrow 14:16 59:14,16 51:18 60:6 39:17 55:21,23
49:5 narrowing 47:12 objectives 11:1 particular 3:15 55:25 57:1,4,22
50:5 narrowly 14:19 59:18 15:21 38:4 43:2 58:3,8,21,24
52:1,6 nascent 58:17 obvious 42:13,14 44:9 59:8,12,21,23
55:4,8 nature 17:5 obviously 39:13 particularly 60:20
60:7 necessary 6:19 49:16 55:16 56:10 phrase 32:8
12:9 need 15:22 34:21 odd 4:4 passed 40:4 49:2 pick 51:2
23:15 42:22 51:19 officials 48:5 path 56:15 pivotal 3:11
30:17 needs 16:16 54:1 off-limits 14:10 pay 13:15 31:1,4 26:16
44:10 negative 52:4 off-road 8:6 31:22,23 32:16 place 9:21
48:25 neutral 8:13 10:15 55:10 paying 27:21 plain 3:17 20:22
53:7 never 14:4 26:21 Oh 10:15 21:12 30:3 31:23 play 36:11 60:5
30:7,9 43:21 51:8 oil 56:5 34:8,9 35:19 16:15 26:8
47:4 53:21 54:25 okay 31:3 44:5 pays 29:25 49:10 plus 49:18
36:5 37:4 45:25 42:21 people 9:12 22:2 22:6 25:19,24
41:20 non-obvious ones 31:1 44:4 58:13 33:7 34:15,17
49:4,5 42:15 open 50:8 percent 12:10,11 43:19 46:15
16:17 opinion 53:14 29:22,22 30:1,4
44:12 59:6 41:12,17 42:20 pushed 38:21 10:14 15:20
9:21 43:15,18 46:17 27:19 29:7,9 23:12 32:2
49:11,14,18 proposes 60:13 Q 7:13,17,17 8:10
20:1 23:9 58:25 59:16,17 39:25 question 7:9 9:21 12:10 13:7,10
problems 15:24 protect 4:21 5:9 14:3,6,8,14,16 15:22 16:5
41:1 prohibiting 26:20 provide 20:13,16 16:22 38:22 43:17 45:5,9
17:6 25:8 quick 56:1 52:24 53:2,4,15
22:23 property 4:3,5,8 47:7,9 quotes 54:18 49:14
4:19 6:2 7:7,11 provisions 28:25 raising 45:23
16:18,20
18:2,3
19:13 rates 17:3 56:9
21:6
24:4
25:12
36:14,15
34:19 37:11 12:2,17 55:6
43:15 54:15 revenues 5:8 satisfying 8:25 24:14,22,23,24
50:13 reign 3:21 revenue-raising 16:2 25:3 29:2,4
reject 17:20,23 40:8 save 53:3 32:13
60:16 11:19 12:15 saying 4:19 7:4 25:17
52:2,24 relief 49:17,23 36:3,4 38:16 41:1,3,4 42:11 setting 12:18
12:16 remanded 23:11 42:25 44:14 48:18 52:3 17:13 19:21
18:10 remarkable 47:1,22 51:14 says 6:12 9:2 20:1 21:5,12
24:1 25:2 15:12 52:6 57:22 17:24 32:4 35:8 22:4,8,19 23:17
27:8 28:7 remedies 20:22 59:12,22 49:16,23 24:25 25:2,18
34:18 remedy 19:22 road 8:15,15 Scalia 6:6,20 7:5 25:22,24
50:24 21:4,6,21,22 10:13 55:9 7:15,20 11:16 shop 18:19
57:6 58:13 21:25 22:9,11 roadmap 5:6 12:5 24:21 25:1 shoved 45:24
59:9,11 23:5 roads 30:20 25:20 26:17 shoves 46:5
remember 8:20 ROBERTS 3:3 41:14 44:22 show 54:18
removed 31:20 22:15 25:16,23 51:9,15 57:1 44:6
55:23 repeating 35:14 31:10 35:7,13 37:9 56:22
47:23 40:14 37:25 38:3 15:14 27:20 11:12 13:3
reproduced 3:13 48:17 49:19,25 schools 50:25 simple 50:24
requires 57:3 room 27:2 48:1,7 scrutiny 24:17 19:9 33:8 42:14
1:23 2:11 26:6 S 2:1 3:1 55:5 37:23 53:8
41:17 reticulated 15:14 13:19 24:8,16 seen 32:10 singled-out
revenue 1:7 3:5 34:20 36:16 send 39:13 singles 26:12,14
50:23,24
38:6 22:20 25:15 58:13 success 9:8 talking 7:1 8:25
29:5 54:2 State's 29:16 sudden 50:21 14:25 17:2,2,3
57:8,11,16 speedy 20:22 status 44:15 sue 53:3,4 60:3
13:4 52:20 4:2,4,21 10:6 suggest 18:19 34:23 35:11
spoke 60:14 11:15 15:13 52:16 51:6
21:21,22 59:3 27:16 29:14 30:13 35:4 53:8
stage 14:19 33:8 41:23 suggests 22:11 tarry 14:15
50:21,25 54:22 56:16 supporting 1:21 12:10 13:14,15
40:4 48:9 13:16 14:1 story 19:9 27:10 supposed 11:23 17:3,6,24 18:1
20:19,21 22:7,9 stretch 15:12 Supreme 1:1,13 19:13,24 20:19
27:17 30:19 19:7,9 29:14 9:22 11:21 21:20,23 22:1,2
29:17,25 39:16,21 40:11 study 26:22 surprised 25:22 23:20 24:8,8,10
31:25 42:23,24 43:2,8 subject 13:14 susceptible 24:11,12,15,16
37:2 47:20 48:4,24 28:18 35:11,16 19:19 24:19 25:5
44:9,18 50:22 52:9 53:4 37:7 38:9 46:22 suspect 12:6 26:10,11,12,13
52:2 54:1 56:14,25 48:25 50:15,16 sweeping 6:4 26:14,20 27:13
58:1,7,10 58:18 59:14 subjecting 52:11 sympathetic 27:13,20,21,22
59:5,9,17 60:9 submitted 60:20 58:16 28:4,5,11,18
statement 39:22 60:22 28:22,23 29:11
54:4,11 60:17 18:22 19:12,23 T 2:1,1 30:14,14,18,23
12:23 15:16,23 49:12 15:14 28:23 32:5 33:7,17,18
60:12 36:20 37:14 18:11 20:16 taken 5:11 53:17 34:17 35:10,16
28:23 47:7 50:20 51:10,23 substantive 60:13 36:24,25 37:6,8
51:24 52:22 20:14 talk 25:25 54:22 37:11,23 38:19
40:8 tell 19:9 43:12 44:4,6,23 45:25 41:20,25 43:21 53:7
41:6,9,18 44:6 54:1 47:6,18 48:22 44:13 60:1 undertake 60:8
42:5,6,20 telling 37:3 53:4 50:17 52:20 trial 14:1 undoubtedly 9:7
45:1,3,12 tells 27:10 56:19 58:21,24 trick 40:22 unfortunately
term 6:4,21 11:1 58:25 59:12 trivial 56:24 16:1
49:1,10 terms 47:24 60:5 60:1,7 trouble 48:21 United 1:1,13,20
test 34:22,22 thinking 3:20 troubles 6:7 2:7 16:12 27:7
51:19 35:2,3,4,8,9 29:11 43:10 truckers 6:10 27:9 36:20
36:3,22 38:5,10 thinks 40:7 33:24,25 43:8 49:12
54:22 38:15,16 40:18 third 53:15,16 trucks 13:11 universe 27:1
56:3,7,8 41:22 43:15,17 thoroughfare 33:11 55:7 unpredictable
58:4 43:25 45:20 30:19 true 4:15 56:16 45:6
40:1 19:8 34:18 25:3 51:22 trying 15:10 30:8 use 3:19 12:20
Textually 48:14 three 27:11 turn 46:10 13:17 15:18
5:3,22 26:3 55:19,20 timber 8:7 twiddle 45:13,14 26:20,24 30:20
13:1 55:25 60:19 time 5:2 14:25 two 10:21 11:4 32:8,14 34:20
19:2,8,14 theirs 44:24 16:7 20:18,19 13:24 31:4 34:8 36:16 38:20
26:19,24 theory 30:1 37:19,22 51:5 41:8 46:5,25 46:10 50:23,24
28:13 38:10 44:24 53:3 55:2 59:18,24 52:14 53:1,13
31:19 53:6 today 16:17 56:8 type 17:4 18:21 60:9
34:19,20 thing 9:4 18:20 told 28:12,15 21:5 23:5,20 users 8:6,7,15
38:14 39:10 40:1 41:4 43:10 24:12,15 uses 30:19
47:16,20 48:5 tough 40:25
42:1,23 51:11 57:11 42:20,22 U V
43:2,4,8 things 30:19 traditional 57:23 ultimate 59:2,14 v 1:5 3:5
think 4:6,17,25 traditionally 7:23 ultimately 13:20 vague 53:24
5:4 6:3,13,23 trains 43:9 57:4 59:12 valorem 47:24
6:25 7:14,19 transport 10:11 unacceptable 50:2,3 52:10,14
9:20 10:24,25 10:14 58:17 44:12 value 49:18
53:1,13 11:21,25 13:20 transportation unambiguous vast 58:8
55:9 13:23 14:11 1:3 3:5 18:14 54:17,21 version 46:16
15:8,12 17:10 25:12 37:23 undermine 9:7 versus 18:8
57:21 20:23 21:5 19:1 33:11,12 29:14,18 36:9 violation 49:15
19:16,17 24:1,5,6,25 44:4 51:24 42:10 44:22 20:10
27:22 25:2 27:5 29:6 57:24 58:12 understanding viscerally 6:8
50:10 29:18 31:18 treated 13:4 15:6 51:7 57:23 8:25
43:6,7,11,12 9:17 21:17 22:20 32:21 voting 27:18
51:18
15:4 19:1 80s 53:6
$4 56:9 8:4 9:25 12:21
28:14 85 6:15
33:5,11 0 85-year-old
12:11 24:23 25:3,6,11
42:17 09-520 1:5 3:4 11:16,18 12:11
58:16,18 48:7 58:15
1
46:2,7,10 57:14 60:16 9 41:16
25:5 9:24 12:21 13:1 3-year 5:8
46:19,19,24 18:11 24:23 90s 53:6
30 56:6 95 32:3
345 54:16 98 32:2
44:7 47:11
38:14 41:5 56:7 57:14 4 3:23 4:17,18
29:11 working 57:19 10 1:10 53:18 12:7,10,12,14
32:18 works 52:7 10:03 1:14 3:2 16:20 17:1,5,6
world 26:18 60:2 100 31:25 17:21,21,25
11:3,6 worry 46:1,4 47:20 25:9,9,24 28:17
13:6,7,11 48:6 59:24 15 26:21 47:16 29:22 30:1,4,13
15:5,18 wouldn't 25:9 52:20 56:16 32:5,16 33:17
21:2,3 28:8 31:7 15-year 5:17 33:24 36:10
27:14 wrestle 39:14 53:21 38:19 41:10,17
42:19,20 wrong 8:6 16 2:8 46:20,23 48:19
44:20 wrote 29:12 1930s 53:5 55:5 49:10,15,21,22
52:6,23 55:16 55:15 49:25 50:1,13
57:17 Wyoming 37:22 1970s 56:5 52:12 53:9
1980s 55:13 57:13,16 60:16
45:25
Y 2 12:11 25:6 5
52:20
54:24
2010 1:10
