IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JANUS CAPITAL GROUP, INC., ET AL.,:
Petitioners : No. 09-525
v. :
FIRST DERIVATIVE TRADERS :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, December 7, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:01 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MARK A. PERRY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioners.
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MARK A. PERRY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 29
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as
amicus curiae, supporting Respondent 49
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MARK A. PERRY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 60
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:01 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 09-525, Janus Capital Group
v. First Derivative Traders.
Mr. Perry.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK A. PERRY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. PERRY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Affirming the judgment below would authorize
private securities fraud class actions against every
service provider that participates in the drafting of a
public company's prospectus. It is, therefore, nothing
less than a frontal assault on this Court's decisions in
Central Bank and Stoneridge.
In those cases, Your Honors, this Court held
that service providers may not be sued primarily in
private class actions and left that matter for Congress
to resolve. And Congress did respond, not once, not
twice, but three times, to those decisions.
First, in the PSLRA, the Congress authorized
a Federal action, a government action, only against
aiders and abettors, leaving the question of private
class actions for this Court's resolution.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, is -- who's the
violator alleged here? Not in the complaint, but in the
briefs? As I read the briefs, they claim that Janus
itself did not make the false statement, that the two
appellants did, that they are the actual speakers
because they were talking about their activities, and
they used Janus as a conduit to deceive the market.
That's, I think, what they're alleging.
MR. PERRY: Justice Sotomayor, the
challenged statements appear in the prospectuses for the
Janus Funds, separate legal entities not parties to this
lawsuit.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how do we sustain the
intermediary cases when the company, through market
analysts, divulges misleading statements? We don't talk
about the market analysts' falsity; we talk about the
company's falsity, because the market analysts didn't
have scienter.
MR. PERRY: Your Honor, the company -
excuse me -- the conduit or analyst cases fall under two
categories, neither of which is met here.
First, they are a scheme between the
company -- orchestrated by the company to distribute its
information through the analysts to the market, and they
are brought under 10b-5(a) as scheme cases. That is
most of the analyst cases. There is no 10b-5(a) claim
in this case. This is only a 10b-5(b) "making" claim.
Second, those few cases, the analyst cases,
that are brought under (b) involve an omission; that is,
the company has failed to correct a statement made by an
analyst where there is a duty to do so. There is no
omission claim in this case because there is no duty -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But what's the
difference between an omission or a commission if a
company purposely divulges a falsehood to an analyst,
knowing it's going to be distributed in toto? So who's
making the false statement, the analyst or the company?
MR. PERRY: Your Honor, the company makes
the statement to the market. Under Basic, the analyst
is the market. It is the ears of the market that takes
information -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why isn't -- why
aren't the two appellants, on their theory, on -- we can
talk about whether the complaint does or does not
adequately allege their theory. That's a different
issue. I accept that.
But under their theory, why isn't the
appellants the primary violator, not even a secondary?
Because they -- they claim, I think -- and I'm going to
find out from them -- that Janus had no scienter, that
it didn't make the false statements, that all of this
was done in secret by the appellants, so they were the
only violator.
MR. PERRY: Your Honor, the analyst cases,
the issuer speaks to the market directly. Here, there
is an intervening legal entity, the Janus Funds.
Scienter or no scienter, that is a separate
corporation -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you mean to say to me
that puppets become a legal defense for someone who
intentionally manipulates the market information?
MR. PERRY: Justice Sotomayor, the Congress
has drafted two statutes that deal with puppets.
Section 20(b), which these plaintiffs have not invoked,
makes it unlawful for one party to do indirectly what it
would not be permitted to do directly. That's the
puppet statute, the ventriloquist dummy statute.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the control
person statute?
MR. PERRY: No. There's also 20(a), which
is the control person statute, also not invoked by these
plaintiffs.
Those are forms of secondary liability, Your
Honor. In fact, the Court's questions go to the
distinction between primary and secondary liability.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But I -- but if Janus
had no scienter, if its board of directors did not know
that the statements were false, they had no way of
knowing, because as I understand the complaint -- and
this is alleged -- the deal was secret. So Janus itself
could not be a primary violator. Who is?
MR. PERRY: Justice Sotomayor, our position
is nobody had scienter, and every adjudicator to look at
these facts -- Judge Motz in the district court, the ALJ
of the SEC -- has found that there was no scienter
anywhere up and down the line. So the fact that
somebody didn't have scienter doesn't answer the problem
here. The question -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, somebody deviated
from what was the announced policy, that there was to be
no market timers investing in this -- in these Janus
funds. Somebody made the decision that certain hedge
funds would be allowed to engage in that activity. Who
was that somebody?
MR. PERRY: The adviser personnel made the
determination, Justice Ginsburg, that the policy was
discretionary, that when it said we may refuse trades,
the funds may refuse trades, that there are -
discretion -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the statement
that's alleged to have been -- the conduct that is
alleged to have been in opposition to the announced
policy, that is attributable squarely to -- what you -
this is the entity you called JCM?
MR. PERRY: That's correct, Your Honor -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it made the decision
that violated the policy?
MR. PERRY: That's correct, Your Honor. And
the SEC -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Nonetheless, it's not a
primary actor?
MR. PERRY: Not as to these plaintiffs, Your
Honor. The SEC -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But can -- can we discuss
the case, and -- and perhaps you don't think so. Can't
we discuss this case, must we not discuss this case, on
the theory that JCM's scienter, JCM's knowledge of a
false statement, is a given in the case?
Now, maybe you'll be able to prove
otherwise. You say that they're not liable anyway.
MR. PERRY: Justice Kennedy, you're exactly
right. That is the theory pleaded in the complaint.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it seems to me that's
what the argument here is mostly about.
MR. PERRY: And the question that is before
this Court, we would submit, is whether, scienter or no
scienter, JCM can be held liable for the statements in
another company's prospectus. This Court has never
held -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Even though there was no
scheme with another actor? Even though it was the only
violator, which is a -
MR. PERRY: No -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- fair reading of the
complaint.
MR. PERRY: They chose not to bring a scheme
case. And remember, there is a second set of investors
here: the fund investors. The SEC brought an action,
secured $100 million on behalf of them. There was a
series of private litigation that has been resolved,
brought by those investors.
These investors did not purchase the
securities offered by the -- the prospectus they
challenge. And, again, there's a fundamental disconnect
between the defendant in the case and the challenged
misstatements.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But, once again -- once
again, if the complainants in the case, the plaintiffs
in the case -- hypothetical case, not this case,
hypothetical case -- were injured shareholders in the
fund, I take it you say still they could not sue JCM?
MR. PERRY: Your Honor, for different
reasons. They can sue JCM for -- for an omission,
because there's a duty that runs from JCM to the funds.
That was the theory advanced in that separate lawsuit
accepted by the district court, which has since been
resolved.
They can't -- these plaintiffs can't bring
an omission case, because there's no duty that runs from
JCM out to the JCG shareholders. The district court
held that. They didn't appeal that to the Fourth
Circuit. They didn't present that in their cert
petition. So they can't bring that omissions case.
Any wrongdoing in this case -- Justice
Ginsburg, to finish my answer to your question, the
policy says funds are not intended for market timing.
The adviser allowed 12 traders to trade frequently. The
only wrongdoing, if there is any wrongdoing, was the
failure of the adviser to disclose to the trustees the
deviation from the policy. That is a State law breach
of contract. It may be a breach of fiduciary duty.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Perry, who wrote
the relevant statements?
MR. PERRY: Your Honor, the funds made the
statements to the public. They were drafted -
JUSTICE KAGAN: I understand that they were
in the fund's prospectus, but who wrote them?
MR. PERRY: They were drafted by lawyers for
the funds, lawyers representing the funds.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Who paid those lawyers?
MR. PERRY: The adviser paid the lawyers'
salaries.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So JCM paid the lawyers?
MR. PERRY: Correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And so it was JCM's lawyers
who wrote the prospectus, including the relevant
statements here, the asserted misrepresentations?
MR. PERRY: I -- I disagree with that,
Justice Kagan. They don't allege that in the complaint,
and the facts show that the lawyers, when -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, suppose the complaint
had alleged that. Suppose the complaint had simply
said: JCM's lawyers authored the relevant statements in
the prospectus.
MR. PERRY: One would have to -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Would that be enough to
survive a motion to dismiss?
MR. PERRY: No, Your Honor. One would have
to further look at who those lawyers were representing.
The truth in the real world is -
JUSTICE KAGAN: They're paid by JCM.
MR. PERRY: Every prospectus is written by
lawyers, Justice Kagan. Lawyers write prospectuses.
JUSTICE KAGAN: These are in-house counsel
for the investment adviser.
MR. PERRY: In-house counsel, outside
counsel, once they draft materials and present them to
their client, it becomes the client's statement when
adopted by the client.
The board of trustees of the funds has to
review every policy, is responsible for every policy
drafted by inside counsel, outside counsel, consultants.
It's not unusual for companies to retain outside service
providers to provide any number of policies: Employment
policies, investment policies, everything else.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Perry, you -- you
said that it was the fund's lawyers who drafted the
prospectus, but, in fact, it was JCM's lawyers, the
lawyers -- they were in-house lawyers for JCM. And they
served -- and they served the funds in doing this
prospectus, but they were on the payroll of JCM, and
they were JCM's legal department.
MR. PERRY: Your Honor, like all lawyers,
they wear multiple hats. I represent multiple clients.
These lawyers represent multiple clients.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought they were
in-house lawyers?
MR. PERRY: They are in-house lawyers at
JCM, but they also represent the funds, and the SEC has
specifically recognized in the context of investment
companies that where an adviser counsel is representing
the funds, his client or her client, for those purposes,
is the funds. And here, these lawyers are very careful
to separate who their -- their clients are for various
purposes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, let's say that JCM's
principal officers and managers wrote the statement.
You still say there's no liability?
MR. PERRY: Absolutely, Justice Kennedy,
because when the statement is adopted by the issuer, it
becomes the issuer's statement. Only an issuer can make
the statement -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. It's not
attributable, at least publicly, to JCM.
MR. PERRY: That's -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there an alternate
theory that JCM is really the day-to-day managers in
day-to-day active control of the fund, and, therefore,
it should be chargeable as if it and the fund are the
same for purposes of making the statement?
MR. PERRY: Your Honor -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And we would say that
that's different from, say, an outside law firm or an
auditor?
MR. PERRY: Your Honor, the word "control"
appears more than a hundred times in the briefs on the
plaintiff's side of this case in this Court, and the
Congress has dealt with control. Section 20(a) provides
a separate cause of action against those who control
another entity.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Except that I, as I read
your brief -- and you can correct me if I'm wrong -- you
were arguing that because there was an independent board
of directors, presumably because there are two
corporate -- different corporate funds -- two different
corporate forms, that there couldn't be control person
liability under 20(a). You seem -- that -- I thought,
reading your brief, that's what you were alleging.
So you can't have your cake and eat it, too.
Either the independence of the board makes no difference
or it does. So which is your position?
MR. PERRY: Our position, Your Honor, is
that the Congress has dealt with the situation where you
have two separate companies, and to make a claim against
the second company, you have to prove control. Whether
or not they could in this case, none of us knows,
because they never brought that claim. They
represented to the district court -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under what theory would
you defend an allegation that the investment manager who
had control over the everyday affairs of the company,
drafted or helped draft the prospectus, hired the
lawyers who helped draft it, wouldn't be a control
person? How would you defend that?
MR. PERRY: Your Honor, the investment
company, the mutual funds, are separately owned,
separately governed.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly. So you -
you're -- if they can't be control persons because
they're separate companies, then how do they escape
being primary violators?
MR. PERRY: Well, Your Honor, then -- then
we're just saying that the investment adviser is a
service provider like every other service provider.
They are like the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it's not in this
case, because the allegation is that it -- not the
company, that it chose to deceive the market.
MR. PERRY: Your Honor, with respect, the
allegation is that the adviser wrote a certain policy,
but the very document cited for that in the complaint
says that the trustees are responsible for the policies
of the funds. The trustees, when they adopt them, it
becomes the corporate policies of them. I mean, on the
plaintiff's -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Perry, does the fund
have employees?
MR. PERRY: Yes, Your Honor. The fund
has -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Who are the fund's
employees?
MR. PERRY: Are the officers of the fund,
the chief executive officer, the chief financial
officer -
JUSTICE KAGAN: And are all of those people
also employees of JCM?
MR. PERRY: Not the president, Your Honor,
but the others are joint -- serve in joint capacities.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And could you just run
through a little bit how one of these prospectuses
gets -- gets issued eventually? The JCM lawyers start
the process by drafting, and then what happens?
MR. PERRY: The lawyers representing the
trusts, both in-house and external, draft the underlying
document -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, here, I believe that
there was a statement in your interrogatories that it's
JCM's lawyers, in-house lawyers, who drafted the
relevant statement.
MR. PERRY: The particular prospectus,
answered in that prospectus. That's exactly right.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And then what happens?
MR. PERRY: They are presented to the board
of trustees, which holds a meeting. The board of
trustees is -- the funds are represented by outside
counsel, and the independent trustees are represented by
outside counsel.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And was there any change to
these statements made by the board of trustees?
MR. PERRY: These particular statements?
JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes.
MR. PERRY: Yes, Your Honor. There were
changes to the market timing policy throughout the class
period. In fact, earlier in the class period, there was
an express disclosure that market timing might be
permitted pursuant to a -- a written contract. That was
revised later.
The trustees asked multiple questions. They
were back and forth with their lawyers. Outside counsel
was always involved, and there are other consultants
involved periodically as well. The -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do the outside
counsel you're talking about represent the fund only?
MR. PERRY: There's two separate sets of
outside counsel. One law firm represents only the fund.
It does not represent the adviser; only represents the
funds, Your Honor. There's a second law firm in this
case that represents the independent trustees.
Six of the seven trustees determined that to
secure their independence, because the chairman of the
board at that time was an interested person under the
statute, they have a separate law firm. There are two
law firms that have nothing to do with the adviser.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the law firm that -
the lawyers who drafted the prospectus were in-house
counsel for JCM on JCM's payroll.
MR. PERRY: They were paid by JCM, and at
the time they drafted, they were representing the funds,
again, as allowed by the SEC, as disclosed in the
documents -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they weren't the
independent outside lawyers who were representing the
board or the funds; they were the in-house counsel?
MR. PERRY: Those outside counsel reviewed
every policy. In fact, if you look at the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I guess my question was
simply: The drafters of the prospectus were the
in-house counsel for JCM?
MR. PERRY: The -- the paragraph being
challenged in this case, that's correct, Your Honor.
The interrogatory response doesn't speak more broadly
than that, but I agree with that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose if the
lawyers for the trust did an inadequate job of reviewing
the JCM drafts, they would be subject to a malpractice
action by the trust?
MR. PERRY: Correct, Your Honor. And then
the trust, of course, has contractual and other rights
against the adviser that it has enforced, you know, in
this very case. The trustees made a claim against the
adviser for all of this underlying conduct.
JUSTICE BREYER: What -- what happens if the
president of the oil company, knowing that the statement
is false, says: We have discovered 42 trillion barrels
of oil in Yucatan. He writes it on a piece of paper; he
gives it to the board of trustees; they think it's true
and they issue it. Joe Smith buys stock and later loses
money.
Can Joe Smith sue the president of Yucatan,
of the oil company, for having made an untrue statement
of material fact?
MR. PERRY: If he's an authorized agent of
the same company that issued the statement?
JUSTICE BREYER: What he is, is he didn't
issue it. What he did was he gave it to the board of
trustees, who issued it.
MR. PERRY: If the board of trustees of his
company, so that the statement -
JUSTICE BREYER: He's the president of the
company.
MR. PERRY: And -- and the distinction here,
Justice Breyer, is -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I'm asking what
happens. Is there recovery?
MR. PERRY: If he is an authorized agent, he
may be sued as -
JUSTICE BREYER: He is running the business,
the daily affairs, of the company. Of course, the
president of a company is an authorized agent of the
company, and so, yes.
MR. PERRY: He may be subject to liability,
then -
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, if he's subject to
liability, why isn't your firm -- your client, subject
to liability, who, after all, run every affair of the
fund?
MR. PERRY: Your Honor, they run the
management of the fund. The investment operations -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, that's what a
president does. The president of a company manages the
company.
MR. PERRY: And where -
JUSTICE BREYER: And if the president is
liable, why isn't the group of people who do everything
for the company -
MR. PERRY: Because, Your Honor -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- why aren't they liable?
MR. PERRY: -- the corporate form has
meaning in the Federal law and in State law, and
where -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, you have to explain it
to me more. I'm not being difficult. I understand this
less well than you think I do -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and I want to know.
That's an obvious, naive question, and I'd like an
answer that anyone could understand.
MR. PERRY: The answer is, Your Honor:
These funds are managed -- "governed," excuse me, is a
better word -- by the trustees. That is disclosed in
these documents. In fact, the documents say -- it's at
page 258a of the Joint Appendix -- the trustees are
responsible for all the policies.
They have outsourced, if you will, certain
functions, operational functions: Which stock to buy,
which stock to sell, which transfer agent to hire.
Those are functions that could be kept in house or could
be outsourced.
JUSTICE BREYER: I get it. In other words,
you're saying, on the papers here, it's -- it's the
trustees that manage everything.
MR. PERRY: That govern everything.
JUSTICE BREYER: That govern everything, and
these are like helpers?
MR. PERRY: Well, they're -- they're -
JUSTICE BREYER: They do a lot as helpers.
Now, let me suggest to you, if that's one possible
distinction, what about this distinction: That the
managers of a fund, even though they are outsourced
people brought in, are liable as principals, not aiders
or abettors, if -- following criminal law here -- if -
they are principals if they get the false statement to
the public through a conduit, the conduit being an
entity or person that is unaware of the falsity of the
statement.
That's LaFave on criminal law. What is -
what about that?
MR. PERRY: Three answers. First, that's
dealt with in section 20(b), which is the ventriloquist
dummy statute that these plaintiffs didn't invoke.
Second, the Congress looked at this very
question in 1938 and 1939, when there were proposals to
merge the management, the adviser function, with the
funds, to make them one unitary entity. And in the
Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940, the Congress elected not do that.
As this Court has recognized, it chose not
to require compulsory internalization of the management
function. It allowed this separate entity. And,
therefore, when you have separate companies, under State
law -- again, my client is a Delaware limited liability
corporation. The funds are Massachusetts business
trusts. They have nothing in common. There's no joint
ownership, no joint governance -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could you -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're not suggesting,
are you, that they did this for purposes of protecting
your client from a lawsuit?
MR. PERRY: Absolutely not, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: When it -- no, they did
it for a business reason, that having separate entities
was economically more useful for the market, correct?
MR. PERRY: And every fund, or virtually
every fund in -- in the United States, is set up this
way.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right.
MR. PERRY: And, again -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So -- but that doesn't
answer Justice Breyer's question, now.
MR. PERRY: My third -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assuming that they
didn't do it for that reason, what does it mean?
MR. PERRY: My -- my third answer is that
extensive regulatory involvement in the two Acts enacted
in 1940 specifically to regulate this industry, the
Congress never made the decision to hold the adviser
liable for the fund's conduct.
In fact, no statute says that, and the SEC
has never taken that position. There is no case cited
in any of the briefs -- they have 234 pages, 138 cases.
Not one holds an investment adviser liable for
statements of the fund's prospectuses. When the -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just -- just to clarify
Justice Breyer's hypothetical. In your -- in the
hypothetical you gave where the president gives an
innocent board of directors false information and the
prospectus goes out, is the company liable because their
agent -- is the company liable under 10b-5?
MR. PERRY: The company may be sued under
10b-5. It has got to meet all the elements -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
MR. PERRY: -- but, yes, if it's an
authorized agent making a statement on behalf of the
company. But proving -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So what you're saying is
that the -- the agency relation that the president of
the company holds is different that than the agency
relation that JCM holds?
MR. PERRY: Absolutely right, Your Honor,
and that's a distinction -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why is that?
MR. PERRY: It's grounded in State law, and
it differs between one company and two companies. Where
Congress has looked at issuers, for example -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is -- is JCM an agent? Are
you acknowledging that they're an agent of -- of the
fund?
MR. PERRY: You know, for certain purposes,
Justice Scalia, they are an agent.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what purposes are
that? For purposes of -- at issue here?
MR. PERRY: No, Your Honor, for -- not for
drafting a prospectus. For carrying out the investment
function. They are laid out in the contract -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. Okay.
MR. PERRY: It's attached as an appendix to
our brief -- which sets forth the things that JCM is an
agent for investment operations, not an agent
specifically for registering the fund's securities for
sales, complying with the Federal securities laws,
preparing and issuing the prospectus. All those things,
by contract -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So even though they did
those things, they acted in excess of their authority?
MR. PERRY: They did not do those things,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's the allegation.
MR. PERRY: No, it's not the allegation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose it were
proven that they did do those things. Suppose it were
proven that they did 100 percent of the prospectus work.
The only thing that the fund did was to mail it.
MR. PERRY: I don't know how to respond to
that, Justice Kennedy, since it's so far beyond what
they could possibly prove here. What happened here -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, this case -- this
case went off on -- in the district court, it was -- was
it 12(b)(6)?
MR. PERRY: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Okay. And all that the
Fourth Circuit said is it goes beyond; it has to go
further. And the -- the impression that I got from the
Fourth Circuit's opinion is -- and it could be reduced
to a very simple statement. They say: JCM was in the
driver's seat. It was running the show. And if that
can be proved, they thought that they would have a good
case under -
MR. PERRY: And, Your Honor, no court, no
case from this Court or any court of appeals has ever
held that the driver's seat exception to Central Bank
exists. And that is an expansion.
The second issue in the case, of course,
which is attribution: Even if there's making by JCM,
none of these statements were attributed to JCM. The
prospectus is very clear that -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that was -- I mean,
before you started out with a statement that sounded
like the sky is falling because lawyers would no longer
be safe, banks would no longer be safe, but the Fourth
Circuit was -- was a much narrower view. Its view was
this -- JCM was the manager. It was controlling
everything.
MR. PERRY: Justice Ginsburg, the Fourth
Circuit's view was the manager helps the funds. That -
nobody even defends the Fourth Circuit's ruling. The
Government now comes in with a theory that they admit,
on page 22 of the Government's brief, does apply to
every lawyer, every accountant, every -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought that the question
on which we granted cert was very clear: whether the
Fourth Circuit erred in concluding that a service
provider can be held primarily liable in a private
securities fraud action for, quote, "helping," close
quote, or, quote, "participating in," close quote,
another company's misstatements.
Now, is -- is that an accurate description
of the Court's holding? It was not objected to by the
Respondent here.
MR. PERRY: Absolutely, Justice Scalia. And
that question can only be -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's what I thought
we granted. We weren't talking about control here.
That was not the issue, I thought.
MR. PERRY: We agree with the Court. The
question presented can only be answered one way: The
court of appeals erred.
If I may reserve my remaining time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Frederick.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. FREDERICK: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Frederick, is that an
accurate description of -- of the question before us?
MR. FREDERICK: I don't think it is, Justice
Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why didn't you object to it
in -- in your -- in your opposition?
MR. FREDERICK: We -- we did object, in the
sense that we described the complaint's allegations as
JCM writing and preparing and being responsible for the
prospectus. And the question of -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- but we -- we
don't reevaluate facts. We -- we review the holding of
a lower court.
Now, was this an accurate description of the
holding of the Fourth Circuit? And if it wasn't, why
didn't you say that in your brief in opposition?
MR. FREDERICK: We did say it in our brief
in opposition, Justice Scalia, and the Solicitor
General, when you called for the views of the Solicitor
General, also said in the invitation brief that this
case was not an appropriate vehicle for deciding just
simply "help" and "participate," because what the Fourth
Circuit was saying in other parts of its opinion was
that JCM was responsible for the prospectuses in all
their various aspects: in writing, preparing, et
cetera. And so we -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How can -- I'm
sorry. Please -
MR. FREDERICK: So we would submit that for
the reasons we stated in our opposition and we've stated
in our red brief, as the case comes to this Court on
reviewing a motion to dismiss of a complaint's
well-pleaded allegations -- and I can go through the
complaint's allegations, if you like, that explain how
JCM wrote and prepared the prospectus and the policies
for the funds and then implemented them falsely -- we
would submit this case is not about service providers,
but it is about Janus Capital Management being the
primary violator. They were the ones who had the motive
to lie, they had the incentive to lie, and they did lie.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did they make -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Who was -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the statements? Isn't
that the statutory text that we're dealing with?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes, they did.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They did make the
statements?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes, they composed and
created -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It didn't go out under
their name.
MR. FREDERICK: It did in -
JUSTICE SCALIA: If someone writes a speech
for me, one can say he drafted the speech, but I make
the speech.
MR. FREDERICK: Justice Scalia, we address
the definition of "make" under the SEC's interpretation,
which is entitled to deference, as being to create or to
compose or to accept as one's own.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that's not what -
it depends on the context of "make." If you're talking
about making heaven and earth, yes, that means to
create, but if you're talking about making a
representation, that means presenting the representation
to someone, not -- not drafting it for someone else to
make.
MR. FREDERICK: In the prospectus, there is
a section on management that explains that Janus Capital
Management engages in the day-to-day functions. There
are no employees of Janus Funds themselves. All of this
is outsourced management -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Except -- except
when they review material going in the prospectus.
MR. FREDERICK: But that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Then they have
independent representation by outside counsel.
MR. FREDERICK: Right. What they don't
have, Mr. Chief Justice, and where the falsity is here,
is the ability of any of those outsiders to determine
whether or not implementing the policy will be done
fraudulently, and that's where the culpability is here.
JCM runs these funds, and although the statement might
get accepted by the board of trustees -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't
understand -- I don't understand your answer. The
outside counsel reviews what the policy is going to be.
MR. FREDERICK: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Our question is the
validity of that statement, whether that's deceptive in
the prospectus. That seems to me to be an entirely
different question. I understood your theory of the
case to be that JCM is liable, basically, because they
put it in the prospectus.
MR. FREDERICK: And what they did was to
falsely represent what they would do with that
statement. I would direct the Court to paragraph 5.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's the
question, I guess, that -- your response seems to beg
the question -- is that they falsely represented. The
issue is whether or not something happened between their
drafting and its appearance in the prospectus that makes
it appropriate to say that that's a statement of the
trust rather than a statement of JCM.
MR. FREDERICK: It is a statement of both,
in the sense that the fund is attracting investors, but
the fund is managed and controlled by the investment
manager; here, JCM. If -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But if JCM falsely
represented what it would do, it made that false
representation to the fund, and the fund, as has been
acknowledged, would have a cause of action against JCM.
MR. FREDERICK: No -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's not what's going
on here.
MR. FREDERICK: No. In fact, paragraph 5 of
the complaint says that Janus is representing that its
mutual funds -- Janus Capital Management, its mutual
funds -- were designed to be long-term investments. It
then says in paragraph 6: As recognized in the
prospectuses, JCM purported market timing policy was
designed to protect long-term investors.
So, if you read the prospectus and you read
the complaint, it is absolutely clear what Janus Capital
Management is telling all the mutual fund investors of
the world: If you invest in Janus, we will protect your
long-term investments.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What isn't clear from all
of those things is that -- is that JCM made any
representation to the public. The representation was
made in the prospectus issued by the fund, not by JCM.
Now, the fund may have a cause of action
against JCM, but what's crucial here is whether -
whether you can establish that it is JCM who made the
representation to the public -
MR. FREDERICK: And we -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and I don't see how you
can get there. You might proceed under the control
provision, but -- but not by saying that they made the
representation.
MR. FREDERICK: Justice Scalia, they wrote
the prospectus. They're in -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's fine. Just like
writing a speech for somebody.
MR. FREDERICK: And when they issued the
prospectus, they used their address and represented to
the public that they -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry to
interrupt, but it seems be an important -- when they
issued the prospectus -
MR. FREDERICK: Sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Who issued the
prospectus?
MR. FREDERICK: JCM filed it and
disseminated it on its Web site, and all investors in
the Janus Funds knew to -- knew to make inquiries to the
manager if they had any question about the funds.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If I carry a letter over
and file it on behalf of some principal, does it become
my letter? Have I made that representation? Sure, they
filed it. What does that prove?
MR. FREDERICK: Because it's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: As you say, they have no
other agents, unless the trustees themselves were going
to walk over and file it. JCM was functioning in that
capacity as an employee of the fund in the filing. They
didn't file it on their own behalf.
MR. FREDERICK: Yes, they did.
JUSTICE SCALIA: On their own behalf?
MR. FREDERICK: Absolutely. They created
the fund, Justice Scalia. That's how mutual funds work.
Managers create them, they lure investors to them, they
get money by having a percentage of assets under
management.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the SEC has
recognized that they remain two separate entities,
despite this interconnected relationship.
MR. FREDERICK: Certainly, but there are
many cases -- in fact, I don't think it's ever been
disputed in the courts of appeals that if one company
outsources its management function and those outsourced
managers make lies on behalf of the company -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The one -- the one
activity -
MR. FREDERICK: -- they are also liable
under section 10b-5.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The one activity
that we know they did not outsource was review of the
materials submitted by JCM. They had independent
counsel that conducted that review.
Would it have been a breach of the trustees'
fiduciary obligations to the fund investors under common
law -- I forget where this is incorporated -- to
rubber-stamp what they get from somebody on the outside,
not to have independent counsel review what they're
going to say in their prospectus?
MR. FREDERICK: Mr. Chief Justice, my answer
to your question is: That's actually a very difficult
question under fiduciary duty law, because here the
fiduciaries have been duped themselves.
They, when they got the wording of the
prospectus and the policy that JCM was purporting to
implement -- JCM didn't tell the board that there are 12
secret deals with hedge funds, pursuant to which we're
going to make money by attracting long-term investors
and -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it seems to
me -
MR. FREDERICK: -- make money with
short-term market timers.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Isn't -- isn't that,
again, what has been conceded: That there may well be
an action from the fund represented by their trustees
against -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Common-law suit for duping.
MR. FREDERICK: Justice Scalia, in no
instance that I'm aware of where a mutual fund
investment adviser is a publicly traded company would
that cause of action run on behalf of the manager's
shareholders. What we're talking about here is a
company with a product, and they lie about the product.
And in that instance, it's no different from the Vioxx
case last year with Merck or the difference from the
cold remedy case you are going to hear argument in next
term.
The mutual funds happen to be the product of
the company. They make misstatements about the product,
and that -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose this case
didn't involve a mutual fund. Suppose it involved a
corporation with thousands of employees, and the
prospectus is drafted by outside counsel. It's adopted
by the directors of the company without changing a word.
Now, would that case come out the same? And
if not, what would -- what exactly would you have us say
to distinguish the two?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, the outside lawyers, I
think, are distinguishable in a number of different
ways. One is that they are reacting on information
provided by the company. That information is typically
not subject to an independent investigation by outside
counsel to determine the truth or veracity of that
information.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what if it's alleged
they knew exactly what was going on?
MR. FREDERICK: If there is scienter, where
the lawyers knowingly act in a way that helps or that
contributes to that fraud, they may well be subject as
aiders and abettors. It depends on whether you can
establish that the lawyers have met all of the elements.
I mean, you'd have to show reliance. You'd have to show
lost causation. You'd have to show the primary
violation of the part of the lawyers.
JUSTICE ALITO: They would be liable as
aiders and abettors? I thought there wasn't aiding and
abetting liability.
MR. FREDERICK: Sorry. The SEC would be
able to proceed against the lawyers for aiding and
abetting. Whether or not there would be a private
action would depend on whether the lawyers -- it could
be pleaded under the heightened pleading requirements
that they had met all of the elements of the 10b-5
claim. I would submit that's extremely difficult.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is it that -- I'm
unclear on this. That's why I use the oil company
example. Plain, ordinary -- the top executives in the
oil company write the false statement. They give it to
a board that doesn't know it's false, and the board puts
it out in its name.
Now, it seems to me it ought to be clear at
this point in securities law whether those -- the
president and vice president are or are not liable under
this 10-b, the (B) part.
MR. FREDERICK: Yes, and we cited those
cases -
JUSTICE BREYER: And they are liable.
MR. FREDERICK: -- I believe at page 37.
JUSTICE BREYER: You're saying they are
liable?
MR. FREDERICK: At page -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Then their
response to that is: This is not like the president of
the oil company, and the reason that it's not is
something to do with the nature of the -- the obligation
that runs between the managers and the fund, which is
somehow different between -- you understand it better
than I.
Can you say what it is and what you think
your response is?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes. What I will say is
that they don't have a principal distinction between
those two situations. Simply having a contract to
outsource management where those management functions of
the company are resulting in false statements issued by
the company shouldn't make -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So you're
saying -- you're saying it shouldn't matter that if they
issued -- it's worse if they run the whole company than
if they're just the president?
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, at that
point, we get into a problem, and the problem is how do
we distinguish an aider or abettor from a principal?
MR. FREDERICK: An -
JUSTICE BREYER: At that point, I am
uncertain indeed, and that's why I put out this for
comment, this suggestion that you follow criminal law
here and say at least they're a principal if they have a
high position, they participate in it, they do all these
things you say, and the entity that they're fooling in
the first instance is simply a conduit, and, therefore,
you cannot say it's a scheme, because this other part of
the scheme wasn't part of it.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, to be a primary
violator, you have to have met all of the elements of
the cause of action.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. FREDERICK: To be an aider and abettor
for enforcement purposes -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. FREDERICK: -- SEC purposes, you simply
have to provide substantial assistance to one who is a
primary violator.
JUSTICE BREYER: What's the difference
between substantial assistance and -- and doing it?
MR. FREDERICK: You would not have to make
the statement. You would do something to assist the
person making the statement.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Frederick, I thought we
had held -- I was sure we had held that there is no
aiding and abetting liability -
MR. FREDERICK: Yes. I'm -- I'm not
saying -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- under the provision
we're discussing here.
JUSTICE BREYER: There's a distinction. You
want to say what the distinction is. So I would -
consistent with the view there is no aiding and abetting
liability, you still would win your case.
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct, because
there is no primary violator under JCM's view of the
facts here. They are the primary violator under our
view of the facts here, because they met all of the
elements of the 10b-5 action, and they had a motive do
it, and they made -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is your claim premised
on Janus being duped or not? If Janus was not duped, if
its board knew and JCM was doing the activity with
either the consent or acquiescence of the board, would
you have a claim here?
MR. FREDERICK: We would. It would be
somewhat different because we would plead multiple
violators, as the Court in Central Bank and in
Stoneridge -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Then go back to Justice
Breyer's question, because I can see when there's one
primary violator who uses another entity as a dupe or as
a puppet, but I can't, and I don't know how to,
distinguish what you're proposing from aiding and
abetting. There has to be something to differentiate
the two. So what is it?
MR. FREDERICK: It's the failure on the part
of the person who would not have met all of the elements
of the 10b-5 claim. You have to have someone -- you -
two people, okay? Both of them have to have satisfied
all the elements of a 10b-5 claim to be primary
violators. If there is one element that is not
satisfied with respect to that person, that person is
only an aider and abettor and not subject to private
remedies under section 10(b). They would be subject to
aiding and abetting liability under the SEC's
enforcement -
JUSTICE ALITO: But the distinction you're
drawing is between making the statement and assisting in
making the statement. Isn't that -- isn't that what you
just said?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, no, in the sense that
we believe, and we assert in the complaint and the
complaint is adequately pleaded, is that JCM made the
statements. Now, to be -
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, and aiding and abetting
is assisting in making these statements as if -- as in
something you want to take place, right?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: But what is the difference,
the distinction in -- in this context? Now, one
possible distinction is who formally makes it, in whose
name is it made, but that's obviously not your -- your
position. So, what -- what is it to distinguish a
principal here from an aider and abettor?
MR. FREDERICK: Who has substantive control
over the content of the message. That kind of
substantive control, as -- as the Court in the Utah Ten
Commandments case pointed out, the government can have
speech attributed to it on the basis of it putting up a
monument on public land. There can be multiple speakers
with respect to one message, and the question of how
much substantive control you attribute to a particular
speaker, we believe, is the appropriate way to view -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you deny that the fund
had substantive control? Couldn't the fund have stopped
this statement from being placed in its prospectus?
Didn't it have outside lawyers who advised it whether it
should allow this statement to be included in its
prospectus? How can you say that they -- they didn't
have control?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, they did not have a
knowledge of the falsity of these statements.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that may mean that
they're duped, but it doesn't mean that they don't have
control. They had control, but you say they -- they
were duped. But that's quite a different theory from
saying that they had control -
MR. FREDERICK: They -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that they didn't have
control.
MR. FREDERICK: No, Justice Scalia, they
didn't have substantive control over the content of the
message, because if they did, they would not have
allowed these false statements to have been issued. And
that's the whole point -- that's the theory here. JCM
was luring long-term investors with the promise if you
park your money with the Janus Funds, it will be safe
in -- from the kinds of market timing problems. They
were then secretly going out and luring money from the
hedge funds to allow them to make short trades -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But there was -- there is
nothing in the record to indicate that that statement
was attributed to JCM.
MR. FREDERICK: The public understood it
that way.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You can -- you can play
with the words "make" as you choose, but do we take the
case on the assumption that you can show that it was
attributed to JCM? I -- I see nothing in -- in the
record that would justify that.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, JA 275a, Justice --
Justice Kennedy -- excuse me -- says that Janus Capital
Management reserved the Janus name for itself and that
it -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What did -- how did it
reserve that? You said twice in your brief that Janus
is a name to which JCM reserves the right. How did it
reserve the right?
MR. FREDERICK: It said -- and this is at
page 275a -- if for some reason Janus Capital
Management's contract is terminated, the funds can no
longer use the Janus name. They were intending to
trademark and get the name out there to attract
investors to the investment adviser's method of
investing. And it was that type of usage that brought
all of this together. The fund and the management, they
are in function essentially one entity. The fact that
they have contractually outsourced the management
function should not alleviate the securities fraud that
is alleged here.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Frederick, a substantial
part of the power of your argument comes from this
notion, as Justice Ginsburg said, that JCM was in the
driver's seat, that JCM had control, that they were --
Janus was at most an alter ego of JCM and maybe
something more, that it was just a creature of JCM. But
the securities legislation seems to deal with that in
section 20. And your case is not brought under section
20 and, because of the relationship between mutual funds
and their investment advisers, presumably could not be
brought under section 20.
So, why should we think relevant the kind of
controlled relationship that you're talking about?
MR. FREDERICK: Because you don't want to
create a road map for other people to commit fraud,
Justice Kagan, and that's what their theory does. What
their theory does is it says, if we set up shell
companies or if we dupe people to make statements, we
can commit securities fraud with impunity, because we
won't be held liable to having made the statement, even
though we wrote it, we had substantive control over it,
et cetera.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Except -- except to
the SEC, right? Because they can pursue it under aiding
and abetting. It's kind of a big -
MR. FREDERICK: Well -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- problem if you're
trying to say we're safe from actions for security
fraud.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, Chief Justice Roberts,
this Court on numerous occasions has said that the
private securities action is a complement to the
enforcement efforts of the SEC, and in this instance,
the shareholders of the investment manager -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know, but
you were just responding by saying the problem is that
this will give people a road map. But they're going to
hit a pretty big bump in the road when the SEC brings an
action against them, including potential criminal
actions.
MR. FREDERICK: But, no, the problem,
Mr. Chief Justice, is that under their construction of
the facts, there's no primary violator. Mr. Perry said
this morning -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The SEC -
MR. FREDERICK: -- there's no primary
violator. And so, if there's no primary violator, there
can be no control person and there can be no aiding and
abetting.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Frederick.
Mr. Gannon.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CURTIS E. GANNON,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING RESPONDENT
MR. GANNON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, could you start
by taking your brief and distilling it down to three
sentences? Define what a primary violator is, what a
secondary violator is who aids and abets, and who a
control person is? And then tell me how that definition
would exclude lawyers, auditors, investment -- general
investment advisers, et cetera.
I've read your brief, but I've been trying
to distill it down to three sentences. So try to do
that for me.
MR. GANNON: A primary violator must be
somebody who has actually committed all the elements of
a 10b-5 cause of action -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Give me an example of
that. What do you see as all of the elements?
MR. GANNON: Well, the elements for the
private cause of action are the ones that this Court has
repeated. They're -- were cited on page -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I understand. But -
MR. GANNON: In -- in this case the key one
that we're talking about is that you would need to be an
actual maker of the statement, and -- and -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that becomes -- how
is that different from aiding and abetting the making of
a statement?
MR. GANNON: It -- we think that somebody
can make a statement if they create the statement, and
the statute and the rule both expressly apply to those
who make statements directly -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's every
lawyer -
MR. GANNON -- or indirectly.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- who writes the false
statement knowing it's false. So, are you saying that
every lawyer who writes the statement knowing it's false
is a primary violator?
MR. GANNON: Scienter is another element,
and so a lawyer who just reviews the policy, JCM in this
case -- when JCM submitted false statements to the
funds, if the funds were unaware, this is where Mr.
Frederick concluded for the Chief Justice that if
there -- if the person who actually releases the
statement to the world has been duped and doesn't have
scienter, then there is -- they are not going to be -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, just to get -
MR. GANNON: -- a primary violator.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- to get back, so
you are conceding that if you lose this case, you will
be unable to bring any aiding and abetting case in a
situation such as this?
MR. GANNON: Under sections 20 -- it depends
on what the situation -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems like a yes
or no question.
MR. GANNON: Yes, if the situation here is
one in which the funds ultimately cannot be proved to
have scienter. If they did not know about the falsity
of the statements in the prospectuses that they released
to the public, then there would not be a primary
violator. Under section 20(e) for aiding and abetting
liability, the Commission can bring an aiding and
abetting claim against somebody who provides substantial
assistance, recklessly or knowingly -- recklessly or
knowingly provides substantial assistance to a primary
violator, but the Court has repeatedly made clear that a
primary violator needs to have violated all of the
elements of a 10b-5 cause of action, which includes -
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm still not clear what
your distinction is between making the statement and
aiding and abetting in the making of the statement.
Now -
MR. GANNON: If it -
JUSTICE ALITO: -- could you explain that?
MR. GANNON: Well, I think that -
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it necessary that the
person in whose -- the entity in whose name the
statement is made is an empty shell? It's simply a
puppet that's controlled by somebody else? Is that -
is that necessary or does it go beyond that?
MR. GANNON: No, I don't think that that's
necessary. If -- the position -- the position that the
Commission has taken is that somebody who makes a
statement, if he writes the statement or provides the
false information that's used to construct the statement
or allows the statement to be attributed to him. And we
think that that's a reasonable construction of the term
"make," because the statute and the rule both apply to
persons who make the statement directly or indirectly.
And so, they could be using a conduit, whether the
conduit is witting or unwitting. They would be a
primary violator if they had -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think that's a
reasonable interpretation of -- of make a statement
indirectly. I mean, you can make it indirectly by not
issuing it yourself but having somebody else make it in
your name.
MR. GANNON: Well, if -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But I would not say that
I'm making a speech indirectly if I have drafted the
speech.
MR. GANNON: Well, but if the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The person for whom I
drafted the speech is making the speech.
MR. GANNON: Well, that may be true in the
case of a speech, Justice Scalia, but in a classic
boiler-room situation, where somebody has written the
scripts for salespersons to -- to use in order to make
calls to sell stocks, the person who actually writes the
scripts may never speak the words to a customer, he may
never have his own name spoken on the phone, and,
therefore, the statements have not been attributed to
him -
JUSTICE BREYER: He may just be some poor
associate, his first day at work. The law firm sent him
over there, and there he got stuck down in the boiler
room. And somebody said why don't you write something
that will get everybody to sell things, and -- and why
don't you say we're a thousand tons of oil instead of
only a ton? There he is. He writes it out. You think
he's liable?
MR. GANNON: If he writes it out and he
doesn't know, he obviously isn't liable -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, he knows. He
knows.
MR. GANNON: -- because he doesn't have
scienter.
JUSTICE BREYER: At some level he knows: I
shouldn't be saying they found a thousand tons of oil
when they only found 50. Okay? And four people told
him to go do something like that, but he's the guy who
wrote it. I'd say he didn't behave well, but I don't
think he's the principal.
MR. GANNON: In that instance, because he
was acting specifically at the direction of superiors -
JUSTICE BREYER: They didn't say what words
to write.
MR. GANNON: But they -
JUSTICE BREYER: They gave him the general
idea, and then he did it. He created the words, to use
your phrase. When you say "creating the words," he's a
great writer.
MR. GANNON: It -- we do, on page 22,
acknowledge that somebody needs to be sufficiently
involved in the creation or dissemination of the
statement in order to be -- in order to be deemed its
maker or its author. And so, it's -
JUSTICE BREYER: Ah, now we have
"sufficiently involved." Once we're into sufficiently
involved, we're back into what is sufficient to make the
person the principal rather than the aider and the
abettor, and apparently creating or writing the
statement is not clear whether it is or is not
sufficient. So we're back into the problem.
MR. GANNON: In this instance, there's no
doubt that the manager of the funds was not a mere
adviser. They bought into -
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm interested in your
test. I'm interested in your test, not the -
MR. GANNON: Well, the -- the test does
acknowledge that -- that if there is not sufficient
control over the content of the -- the message and the
dissemination of it, that somebody may be more in an
advisory capacity. That might be the instance with lots
of outside law firms when they're acting at the specific
direction of counsel. That's not the situation of -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In that connection, Mr.
Gannon, would you answer the -- the statement that Mr.
Perry made that the Government had, in fact, conceded
that this theory would spread not only to the -- to the
investment adviser so closely linked to funds but to
every lawyer, every accountant, every bank.
MR. GANNON: Well -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He said that you said
that on page something here.
MR. GANNON: We said that -- he was
referring to the statement on page 22 of the
Government's brief, referring to the need for the -- for
the author to be sufficiently involved in creating or
disseminating the statement. And I think it's very
important to recognize that scienter is an important
limiting -- limiting principle for the 10b-5 cause of
action to be brought by a private -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that will always be
charged. It's the simplest thing in the world to charge
scienter.
MR. GANNON: It would be -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you've bought yourself
a big lawsuit.
MR. GANNON: It's not simple, Justice
Scalia, in light of the PSLRA, which requires it to be
alleged with particularity. There need to be facts
sufficient to give rise to a strong inference that the
defendant acted with scienter. And -- and there are
penalties beyond Rule 11 that are -- that are imposed if
the -- if the plaintiff is -- is mistaken in doing so.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You think attribution to
the actor is not necessary for the actor's liability for
a statement?
MR. GANNON: That's correct. We think that
-- and any other rule would immunize falsely attributed
or anonymous statements. And if the whole purpose of a
fraud was to convince somebody that this statement came
from Warren Buffett, so that I could turn a quick buck
before the market realized that it wasn't actually from
Warren Buffett, the fact that it was not attributed to
me would not change the fact that I had made the
statement and that the market had relied upon it.
The truth is that reasonable investors -
and that's the test for purposes of reliance -- can rely
on anonymous and falsely attributed statements. In this
instance, there's no reason to doubt that an investor
would have relied on statements in the prospectus about
the fund's purported anti-market timing and excessive
trading policies. And so, we think that there -- in
general, there doesn't need to be an attribution
requirement, but in this instance, it's quite clear that
a reasonable investor could have relied on
these statements in the prospectus.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, could you have
-- you just admitted if there -- if the company was
duped, you couldn't have aiding and abetting liability.
Could you impose a 20(a) or 20(b) control person
liability?
MR. GANNON: The control person liability
also needs to have a primary violator under the terms of
20(a).
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Gannon, suppose that we
think that this test that the SEC is using and that you
recite on page 13 is really pretty broad and that it
might apply to a range of factual situations that are
not before us. Is there a way to confine our holding
just to the mutual fund situation, and if there is, how
would you do that?
MR. GANNON: Well, I think the easiest way
would be to analogize it to the cases involving
corporate employees. As Petitioners acknowledge, there
are cases where a corporate employee drafts a statement
that's issued in the company's name. In this instance,
the investment adviser is management for the company,
and the fact that they happen to be management by virtue
of contract rather than just the internal arrangements
of the corporation shouldn't change that arrangement.
It -- it's also the case that if the Court
were -- were looking for a way to narrow its holding, it
could do so by talking about the elements of the 10b-5
cause of action, which -- which would apply only to
private suits and -- and not to enforcement actions
brought by the Commission or by the Department of
Justice.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your point is that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it should change
that, because Congress has made it very clear that
investment advisers are not to be treated like
employees. You -- you want us to undo a clear
distinction that Congress has made.
MR. GANNON: Well, the -- the statute says
that if somebody -- any person makes the false statement
directly or indirectly -- and in this instance, the SEC
sought -- got a cease-and-desist order that's reprinted
at -- on page 407 in the joint appendix that was
predicated on a provision of the Investment Company Act,
section 34(b), that -- that tracks 10(b) and makes it
unlawful for any person to make any untrue statement of
material facts. And the Commission believed that they
were chargeable with that violation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Gannon.
Mr. Perry, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MARK A. PERRY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. PERRY: Justice Kennedy, in response to
your attribution question, Mr. Gannon said something
about falsely attributed or anonymous statements. We
have neither here. We have a correctly attributed, non
anonymous prospectus that under Federal law says, on the
first page of the document, who it's attributed to, the
Janus Funds, who have their own trustees.
Justice Ginsburg, who is in the driver's
seat? Page 258a of the joint appendix, quote: "The
trustees are responsible for major decisions relating to
each fund's objectives, policies, and techniques. The
trustees also supervise the operations of the fund by
their officers and review the investment decisions of
the officers."
There is no misdirection here about who's in
charge. The trustees are in charge.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the -- the whole
arrangement was made possible by JCM. JCM wants
long-term investors, so it puts this provision in the
prospectus. The board of directors have no reason to
believe that JCM is dissembling and it's going to go out
and seek hedge funds.
MR. PERRY: If it is a dupe case, Justice
Ginsburg and Justice Sotomayor, it's dealt with by
20(b), which Justice -- Mr. Gannon did not answer.
You'll notice 20(b) does not require a primary
violation. It allows the Commission to proceed directly
against any person who acts indirectly where it can't
act directly. So 20(b) answers this problem.
The Commission also -- the 34(b) of the
Investment Company Act is broader. There's also section
206 and 215 of the Investment Advisers Act, which
regulate the conduct of investment advisers.
Congress has dealt in a very reticulated
way, and all of the questions today I would submit show
the absence of bright lines being proposed by my friends
on this side of the table. They can't articulate the
distinction between primary and secondary, between
principal and agent, between aiders and abettors and
anyone else.
This is an area that needs bright lines. It
needs to be resolved on motions to dismiss. Scienter
can't be resolved on a motion to dismiss. And the
Congress, in the Dodd-Frank act, which the plaintiffs
said, in their opposition in this Court to this
certiorari petition, was going to solve the problem by
enacting a new statute -- turns out Congress didn't
enact that statute.
Instead, Congress referred this issue to the
General Accounting Office, to the Comptroller General,
and said take a year, take all the resources of the
Federal Government, study the problem of the distinction
between companies that issue securities on the one hand,
-- the funds here -- and those who provide services on
the other hand -- the adviser here. And tell us, come
back to the Congress and tell us whether we need to
solve the problem. If the government -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, just to sum up, if
there are -- if investors in a mutual fund are duped by
a false statement that is made in fact, is written by -
by the management company and issued by the fund without
knowledge of its falsity, is there any place they can
get -- look to for relief?
MR. PERRY: The investors in the mutual
fund, Justice Alito -
JUSTICE ALITO: In the mutual fund, yes.
MR. PERRY: -- got $100 million through the
SEC action and resolved all the civil litigation.
They're a separate class of investors, a whole different
set of securities laws problems, because they were the
recipients of the prospectus that offered these
securities and that contained the false statements.
These plaintiffs' fundamental problem -- they didn't
purchase or sell the securities that were offered by the
prospectus they complain about. They can't find any
false statements in anything -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Perry, on the
allegations of this complaint, these plaintiffs were
harmed by the misrepresentations, the alleged
misrepresentations from JCM to the fund. So if the fund
was duped, would these shareholders, JCM's shareholders,
have any relief?
MR. PERRY: These shareholders -- JCG's
shareholders have no relief. And, Justice Kagan, I
would point out in the 70 years since the Investment
Company Act was enacted and the modern mutual fund
industry was built, I'm not aware of any case -- and
they certainly haven't cited one -- in which the
investors in the parent company have ever recovered a
dime in an SEC action, in a private action, or
otherwise, for statements in the funds' prospectuses.
There is a -- there is a line between
corporate entities, and the liability runs up different
channels. This is a totally novel, unprecedented theory
that they're presenting.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was the theory of -
of the fund shareholders? You said the fund
shareholders recovered -- there was a settlement.
MR. PERRY: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What -- what was that
action?
MR. PERRY: Their theory was that there was
an omission. The adviser owned a duty to the fund. The
statements were correctly made, Justice Ginsburg. There
was no market timing. When the -- when the adviser
later allowed certain traders in, it owed a duty to
correct those statements in the prospectuses to the
fund. That was the liability theory of the investors.
These plaintiffs can't pursue that liability
theory because the duty doesn't run the other way. It
doesn't run from JCM to JCG's investors. That's the law
of this case. And, therefore, they can't bring an
omissions case; they have to bring an affirmative
misstatements case for statements that were not directed
to this group of investors.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Perry.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:02 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
43:19 48:18 49:5 59:19 44:3,24 55:22 32:20 37:6 56:14 assisting 44:8,16
48:15 active 13:23 aiders 3:24 22:20 61:17 associate 54:11
50:21 51:21 activities 4:6 39:8,14 62:6 answered 17:6 29:2 Assuming 24:12
58:18 activity 7:18 36:18 aiding 39:14,17 answers 23:3 61:21 assumption 46:18
55:23 actor 8:11 9:6 57:19 44:5,15 48:14 anyway 8:20 attract 47:8
62:6 acts 24:15 61:20 52:7,8,17 58:18 appeal 10:11 37:14
44:13 44:7,15,19 52:15 appearance 33:11 attributed 27:21
25:15 28:21 admitted 58:17 ALJ 7:9 appears 14:6 60:20,21,23
36:4 adopt 16:3 allegation 15:5,22 appellants 4:5 5:18 attribution 27:20
advised 45:12 allege 5:20 11:14 apply 28:9 50:25 author 55:18 56:25
13:6 15:18,25 18:6 57:13 63:21 33:12 45:8 authorize 3:11
59:8 23:8 24:17,22 38:2 alleviate 47:14 arguing 14:13 20:15,19 25:9
62:22 64:20,22 allowed 7:18 10:17 2:8,12 3:3,7 8:24 a.m 1:13 3:2 65:11
50:4 59:25 64:23 49:18 60:16 B
61:21,23,24 advisory 56:10 alternate 13:21 arrangements 59:13 51:19 55:21,25
64:3 affair 20:25 amicus 1:21 2:11 articulate 62:4 62:23
19:11 28:15 agency 25:12,13 5:10,12,14 6:4 assault 3:15 barrels 19:19
34:16 37:22 agent 20:2,15,19 analysts 4:15,16,17 assert 44:12 Basic 5:14
39:19 41:25 22:6 25:4,9,22,23 4:24 asserted 11:12 basically 33:2
48:22 49:4 26:1,10,10 62:6 announced 7:15 8:2 assets 36:7 basis 45:4
52:14 agents 35:23 anonymous 57:23 assist 42:11 beg 33:8
3:8 broad 59:1 cases 3:17 4:14,20 choose 46:17 13:6 14:24 15:15
25:9 29:8 broader 61:23 4:25 5:1,3,3 6:4 chose 9:11 15:23 23:15 25:19 48:8
36:1,3,16 broadly 19:6 24:21 36:13 40:9 23:12 62:20
49:19 60:17 brought 4:25 5:4 59:7,9 Circuit 10:12 27:8 company 4:14,19,23
45:8 61:13 59:20 cause 14:9 33:21 28:7 19:18,25 20:3,8,10
bump 49:3 cease-and-desist claim 4:3 5:1,2,7,24 36:14,16 38:2,5,11
17:8,9,14 buys 19:22 cert 10:12 28:12 clarify 24:24 61:23 63:3 64:3,6
19:21 certain 7:17 15:25 class 3:12,19,25 company's 3:14
25:2 32:18 C 22:4 25:25 64:23 17:18,19 63:11 4:17 9:3 28:17
40:2,2 43:7 C 1:17 2:1,6 3:1 29:7 certainly 36:12 64:5 classic 54:2 59:10
61:12 cake 14:19 certiorari 62:13 clear 27:22 28:12 complain 63:17
56:10 challenged 4:10 20:24 23:16,24 34:1,8 44:12,13
30:23 32:3 34:2,8 change 17:13 58:3 13:9 complaint's 29:18
46:22 47:5 59:14,23 client's 12:8 30:17,19
39:23 careful 13:8 changes 17:18 close 28:15,16 complement 48:22
41:5 carry 35:17 changing 38:17 closely 56:17 complying 26:12
42:1,4,8 carrying 26:5 channels 64:11 cold 38:8 compose 31:19
54:10,20,24 case 3:4 5:2,7 8:15 charge 57:6 61:8,8 come 38:18 62:22 composed 31:8
56:4 8:16,16,18 9:12,20 chargeable 13:24 comes 28:8 30:16 Comptroller 62:17
10:9,13,14 14:7 charged 57:6 Commandments conceded 37:21
30:1,2,5,16 19:15 24:20 27:3,4 18:2 19:8 23:21 comment 41:16 conceding 51:20
49:24 50:5 27:14,16,19 30:6 29:5,9 30:12 32:7 commission 5:9 52:8 concluded 51:13
30:16,22 33:2 38:7 32:10,13,19,23 53:4 59:20 60:11 concluding 28:13
45:3 46:18 47:23 36:17,21 37:6,16 commit 48:5,9 24:18 61:25
52:8 65:4,5 64:4 65:4,5,6,10 49:21 51:13,17,19 Common-law 37:24 22:23 41:20 53:11
11:9 14:12 19:5,12 D determination 7:21 56:9
6:12 14:8,23 correctly 60:21 DAVID 1:17 2:6 determined 18:9 distinction 6:25
24:17 64:21 29:7 deviated 7:14 20:11 22:18,18
59:24 60:2 counsel 4:1 12:4,6,7 day 54:11 deviation 10:20 25:16 40:25 42:20
12:12,12 13:6 day-to-day 13:22,23 difference 5:9 14:20 42:21 44:7,20,21
58:16 61:16 62:1 63:11 64:10 distribute 4:23
27:19 December 1:9 differs 25:19 district 7:9 10:6,10
14:7 15:3 23:12 decision 7:17 8:6 dime 64:7 document 16:1,25
29:3,10,23 30:16 decisions 3:15,21 directed 65:6 documents 18:20
26:6,14 41:1 48:21 49:22 50:14 deemed 55:17 directly 6:5,16 51:1 Dodd-Frank 62:11
59:13 52:12 59:15 62:12 defend 15:5,9 53:10 60:5 61:19 doing 12:20 42:9
14:5,8,9,16 36:6 48:5 50:24 deference 31:18 disclose 10:19 drafted 6:13 10:25
15:6,8,14 created 31:9 36:4 Define 49:25 disclosed 18:19 11:3 12:12,17 15:7
34:22 44:25 55:11 definition 31:17 21:25 17:3 18:15,18
creating 55:12,23 50:2 disclosure 17:20 31:14 38:16 53:21
46:2 56:25 Delaware 23:16 disconnect 9:19 53:25
48:11 49:13 creation 55:16 deny 45:9 discovered 19:19 drafters 19:2
56:8 58:19,21 creature 47:21 department 1:20 discretion 7:24 drafting 3:13 16:22
52:25 41:16 49:4 depend 39:19 discuss 8:14,16,16 drafts 19:10 59:9
16:4 21:13 49:19 described 29:18 disputed 36:14 dummy 6:17 23:5
64:10 CURTIS 1:19 2:9 description 28:18 dissembling 61:13 dupe 43:16 48:8
38:15 59:14 customer 54:6 designed 34:3,6 disseminating 57:1 duped 37:9 43:6,6
63:1,23 22:24 23:9,14 29:22 43:1,2 49:8 form 21:13 26:24 33:15,16,20
64:20,23 65:2 erred 28:13 29:3 failed 5:5 forth 17:24 26:9 38:1,14 40:19 45:9
establish 34:18 39:9 false 4:4 5:12 6:1 27:10 28:1,5,7,13 fundamental 9:19
41:24 43:3 exclude 50:3 far 27:1 36:19 37:6,18,25 51:12,12 52:3 56:2
50:9,12 excuse 4:20 21:24 Federal 3:23 21:14 38:21 39:5,16 40:8 56:17 60:24 61:14
52:14 59:17 46:22 26:12 60:22 62:19 40:11,14,24 41:9 62:21 64:8
executives 39:25 fiduciary 10:21 37:1 42:13,16,24 43:10 16:10 24:18,23
32:5 38:15 expansion 27:18 file 35:18,24 36:1 45:16,23 46:1,14 further 11:24 27:9
60:1 explain 21:16 30:19 filed 35:13,20 46:21 47:4,16 48:4
48:23 59:19 firms 18:13 56:11 47:14 54:1,18,22 55:5,9
64:10 36:13 47:12 56:15 following 22:21 13:24 16:6,8,12 general 1:20 30:4,5
8:6,10 10:15 19:17 20:14 implemented 30:21 intermediary 4:14 28:25 33:10 62:16
13:1 18:14 harmed 63:21 implementing 32:15 internal 59:13 62:20
19:1 27:3,7 hats 12:24 important 35:8 57:2 internalization issued 16:21 20:3,6
28:5 46:25 hear 3:3 38:8 57:2 23:13 34:15 35:4,9,11
56:13,20 heaven 31:22 impose 58:19 interpretation 31:17 41:3,7 46:4 59:10
61:9,16 hedge 7:17 37:13 imposed 57:16 53:15 63:3
46:10 61:14 impression 27:9 interrogatories 17:2 issuer 6:5 13:15,16
held 3:17 9:2,4 inadequate 19:9 interrupt 35:8 issuer's 13:16
43:14 53:1 helped 15:7,8 including 11:11 49:4 investing 7:16 47:10 JA 46:21
61:13 helpers 22:14,16 incorporated 37:2 investment 12:5,15 Janus 1:3 3:4 4:3,7
33:23 35:23 high 41:18 independent 14:13 24:22 26:5,10 34:1,2,8,10 35:15
38:8 39:4 hire 22:6 17:11 18:8,22 33:16 38:2 47:9,25 43:6,6 46:7,22,23
49:2 51:16 hired 15:7 32:11 36:23 37:4 48:24 50:3,4 56:17 47:1,5,7,20 60:24
62:13 hit 49:3 38:25 59:11,25 60:8 61:5 JCG 10:10
25:13,14 industry 24:16 64:4 9:16,17 33:15 34:6 13:22 16:16,21
45:3 56:15 6:24 8:5,8,13 10:2 information 4:24 37:1,14 46:6 47:9 25:14,22 26:9
10:24 11:9,23 5:16 6:11 25:2 58:5 61:11 63:1,6 27:11,20,21 28:3
15:10,17,24 16:8 injured 9:25 65:7 32:17 33:2,13,17
Honors 3:17 41:20 48:23 55:5 involved 17:25 18:1 46:5,13,19 47:2,18
immunize 57:22 interested 18:11 issue 5:21 19:22 job 19:9
60:7 61:1 50:11,16,20 51:2,5 knows 15:1 54:20 liable 8:20 9:2 21:9managed 21:24
5:8,17 6:9 54:20,24 55:7,10 LaFave 23:1 40:6,10,13 48:10 32:4,6 34:2,9 36:8
7:1,7,14 55:19 56:4,13,20 laid 26:6 54:17,19 36:15 41:2,2 46:23
8:6,10,14 57:5,9,11,18 58:16 land 45:5 lie 30:25,25,25 38:5 47:11,13 59:11,12
9:5,9,22 58:24 59:21,22,23 Laughter 21:19 lies 36:16 63:3
11:1,5,8 60:13,18,25 61:9 law 10:20 14:3 18:5 light 57:12 Management's 47:6
61:15,16,17 62:25 18:7,12,13,14 limited 23:16 manager 15:5 28:3
13:1 63:7,8,19 64:1,13 21:14,14 22:21 limiting 57:3,3 28:6 33:17 35:16
64:17,21 65:8 23:1,16 25:18 37:2 line 7:11 64:9 48:24 56:2
15:4,13,21 justify 46:20 37:8 40:5 41:16 lines 62:3,8 managers 13:12,22
17:1 54:11 56:11 60:22 linked 56:17 22:19 36:6,16
18:2,14 K 65:3 litigation 9:15 63:1040:19
19:1,8,17 Kagan 10:22 11:1,5 laws 26:12 63:12 little 16:20 manager's 38:3
11:8,10,14,16,21 lawsuit 4:12 10:5 longer 27:25 28:1 manages 21:5
21:4,8,12,16 12:1,3,4 16:6,10 23:24 57:10 47:7 manipulates 6:11
22:9,13,16 16:15,19 17:1,7,13 lawyer 28:10 51:3,7 long-term 34:3,6,11 map 48:5 49:2
24:1,7 17:16 47:16 48:6 51:10 56:18 37:14 46:6 61:11 MARK 1:15 2:3,13
58:24 63:19 64:1 lawyers 11:3,4,5,6,8 look 7:8 11:24 18:25 3:7 60:16
Kennedy 8:14,21,23 11:10,15,18,24 63:5 market 4:7,14,16,17
9:22 13:11,14,18 12:3,3,17,18,19 looked 23:6 25:20 4:24 5:14,15,15
28:5 13:21 14:2 24:24 12:19,23,25 13:2,3 looking 59:16 6:5,11 7:16 10:16
29:5 25:7,11,17,21 13:8 15:8 16:21,23 lose 51:20 15:23 17:18,20
26:15,19,21 27:1 17:3,3,24 18:15,22 loses 19:22 24:3 34:5 37:19
31:1,2,3,6 46:11,16,22 57:18 19:9 27:25 38:21 lost 39:11 46:8 58:1,4 64:22
59:22 60:18 39:6,9,12,17,19 lot 22:16 Massachusetts
kept 22:7 45:12 50:3 lots 56:10 23:17
34:12 key 50:17 leaving 3:24 lower 29:23 material 20:1 32:8
35:2,7,11 kind 45:1 48:2,15 left 3:19 lure 36:6 60:11
36:3,5,9 kinds 46:8 legal 4:11 6:6,10 luring 46:6,9 materials 12:7
37:6,16 knew 35:15,15 39:4 12:22 36:23
38:13 43:7 legislation 47:22 M matter 1:11 3:19
40:10 know 7:2 19:14 letter 35:17,19 mail 26:24 41:6 65:12
41:5,10 21:20 25:25 26:25 let's 13:11 major 61:2 mean 6:9 16:4 24:13
42:1,4,8,13 36:22 40:2 43:17 level 54:24 maker 50:19 55:18 27:23 39:10 45:18
43:5,14 48:25 52:4 54:19 liability 6:23,25 making 5:2,12 13:25 45:19 53:16
44:7,15,19 knowing 5:11 7:4 13:13 14:17 20:21 25:9 27:20 31:22 meaning 21:14
46:1,11 19:18 51:6,7 20:24,25 23:16 31:23 42:12 44:8,9 means 31:22,24
knowingly 39:6 39:15 42:15,23 44:16 50:21 52:16 meet 25:6
48:6,13 52:10,11 44:5 52:8 57:19 52:17 53:21,25 meeting 17:9
56:8 57:13 58:12 62:23 operational 22:5 parent 64:6 27:15 28:5,21 29:1
43:2,22 58:22 62:8,9 26:10 61:4 part 39:12 40:7 60:16,18 61:15
14:16 15:9 18:11
63:21,22 notion 47:18 order 54:4 55:17,17
38:11 65:6 number 12:14 38:22 ordinary 39:25 particularity 57:13 58:21 60:4,10
46:7,9 O 2:1 3:1 18:2,5,22,24 32:11
obligation 40:18 outsiders 32:14 49:2 55:1 phone 54:7
17:23 43:11 occasions 48:21 47:13 permitted 6:16 Plain 39:25
offered 9:18 63:13 outsources 36:15 17:21 plaintiff 57:17
36:5 38:1,10 Office 62:17 owned 15:11 64:20 3:6,7,9 4:9,19 5:13 8:12 9:23 10:8
47:24 59:4 officer 16:13,14 ownership 23:19 6:4,12,20 7:7,20 23:5 62:11 63:15
64:3 officers 13:12 16:12 8:5,8,12,21,25 9:8 63:20 65:1
P 9:11 10:2,22,24 plaintiff's 14:7 16:5
46:23 47:2,7 43:24 55:1 56:23 59:1 60:7,23 16:12,17,23 17:5,8 pleading 39:20
52:23 53:18 omission 5:4,7,9 61:1 17:15,17 18:4,17 please 3:10 29:10
59:10 10:3,9 64:20 pages 24:21 18:24 19:4,12 20:2 30:13 49:22
22:3 30:20 55:22 62:6 62:21 60:19 regulatory 24:15
61:3 principals 22:20,22 provided 38:24 questions 6:24 relating 61:2
12:11,11 private 3:12,19,24 15:19 28:14 quick 57:25 relationship 36:11
17:18 18:25 9:15 28:14 39:18 providers 3:18 quite 45:21 58:13 47:24 48:3
34:5 44:3 48:22 50:14 12:14 30:22 quote 28:15,16,16 released 52:5
51:10 57:4 59:19 64:7 provides 14:8 52:9 28:16 61:1 releases 51:14
24:20 41:18 55:25 61:21 62:13 provision 34:23 R 3:1 reliance 39:10 58:6
53:3,3 62:19,24 63:15 42:18 60:8 61:11 range 59:2 relied 58:4,9,14
61:10 proceed 34:22 39:17 public 3:14 10:25 read 4:3 14:11 34:7 rely 58:6
30:10 proposing 43:18 purchase 9:17 63:16 61:12 repeatedly 52:12
17:5,6 18:15 19:2 purpose 57:23 REBUTTAL 2:12 31:24,24 32:11
20:9,19 27:22 29:20 30:20 purposes 13:7,10,25 recipients 63:13 34:24 35:19
25:1,12 32:2,8,25 33:3,11 23:23 25:25 26:2,3recite 59:1 represented 15:3
41:8 34:7,15 35:1,5,9 42:3,5 58:6 recklessly 52:10,10 17:10,11 33:9,19
38:16 45:11,14 37:13 recognized 13:5 representing 11:4
8:11 15:16 12:3 16:20 24:23 putting 45:4 recovery 20:14 reprinted 60:6
39:11 41:23 30:9 34:5 52:5 red 30:16 require 23:13 61:18
43:1,16,25 64:8,24 Q reduced 27:10 requirement 58:13
50:8 protect 34:6,10 question 3:24 7:13 reevaluate 29:22 requirements 39:20
52:6,11,13 protecting 23:23 8:25 10:15 19:1 referred 62:16 requires 57:12
58:22 61:18 prove 8:19 14:25 21:21 23:7 24:10 referring 56:23,24 reserve 29:4 47:1,3
27:2 35:20 28:11,22 29:2,12 refuse 7:22,23 reserved 46:23
63:10 57:16,22 61:1 series 9:15 somewhat 43:11
38:3 41:7 65:2,3 24:19 36:9 39:16 service 3:13,18 Sotomayor 4:1,9,13
28:20 29:8 40:19 64:10 63:10 64:7 services 62:21 15:4,13,21 23:20
second 5:3 9:12 set 9:12 24:5 48:7 23:22 24:1,7,9,12
60:18 safe 28:1,1 46:7 secondary 5:23 6:23 settlement 64:15 58:16 61:16
22:3 29:19 salaries 11:7 secret 6:2 7:5 37:13 shareholders 9:25 sounded 27:24
61:2 sales 26:12 secretly 46:9 10:10 38:4 48:24 speak 19:6 54:6
36:22,24 37:4 40:12 41:6,6 42:17 sections 51:23 short-term 37:19 specifically 13:5
45:22 49:1 51:6 secure 18:10 show 11:15 27:12 24:16 26:11 55:6
19:19 24:19 34:1,4 26:11,12 28:15 side 14:7 62:4 53:25,25 54:2
32:12 40:15 29:11,14,15,21 security 48:18 30:7 41:1,20 42:5 start 16:21 49:23
44:17 47:2 30:3 31:1,3,6,10 SEC's 31:17 44:5 52:24 started 27:24
48:14 64:16 31:13,16,20 33:18 see 34:21 43:15 site 35:14 State 10:20 21:14
23:21 29:5 53:14,20,24 54:2 sense 29:18 33:15 Six 18:9 12:8 13:12,15,16
32:7,10,19 57:5,9,12 59:23 44:11 sky 27:25 13:17,25 17:2,4
33:7 35:7,11 scheme 4:22,25 9:6 sent 54:11 Smith 19:22,24 19:18,25 20:3,8
37:16 9:11 41:21,22 sentences 49:25 Solicitor 1:19 30:3,4 22:22,25 25:9
48:13,17,20 scienter 4:18 5:25 50:6 solve 62:13,24 27:11,24 32:17,24
49:10,15 6:7,7 7:2,8,10,12 separate 4:11 6:7 somebody 7:12,14 33:6,12,13,14 40:1
60:13 8:17 9:1,2 39:5 10:5 13:9 14:9,24 7:17,19 35:3 37:3 42:11,12 44:8,9
51:9,16 52:4 54:23 15:15 18:4,12 50:9,23 52:9,25 45:11,13 46:12
50:19,22,24 45:2,7,10 46:2 term 38:9 53:8 toto 5:11 unaware 22:24
51:6,7,15 48:11 terminated 47:6 tracks 60:9 51:12
53:5,5 sue 10:1,3 19:24 terms 58:22 trade 10:17 uncertain 41:15
55:17 sued 3:18 20:16 test 56:5,5,6 58:6,25 traded 38:2 unclear 39:24
56:14,23 25:5 text 31:4 trademark 47:8 underlying 16:24
58:4 sufficient 55:21,25 Thank 29:5,9 49:15 traders 1:6 3:5 19:16
60:4,10 63:2 56:7 57:14 60:13 65:8 10:17 64:23 understand 7:4 11:1
7:3 9:2 10:23 55:20,20 56:25 8:17,22 10:5 13:22 46:10 40:20 50:16
11:12,18 suggest 22:17 15:4 28:8 33:1 trading 58:11 understood 33:1
24:23 suggesting 23:22 45:21 46:5 48:6,7 transfer 22:6 46:14
31:3,7 41:3 suggestion 41:16 56:16 64:11,13,19 treated 59:25 undo 60:1
45:17 suit 37:24 64:25 65:2 trillion 19:19 unitary 23:9
48:8 51:1,11 suits 59:19 thing 26:24 57:6 true 19:21 54:1 United 1:1,12,21
54:8 57:23 sum 62:25 things 26:9,13,16,17 trust 19:9,11,13 2:10 24:5 49:19
60:20 superiors 55:6 26:22 34:13 41:19 33:13 unlawful 6:15 60:10
64:8,21 supervise 61:4 54:14 trustees 10:19 unprecedented
65:6 supporting 1:22 think 4:8 5:24 8:15 12:10 16:2,3 17:9 64:11
24:5 49:19 suppose 11:16,17 36:13 38:22 40:22 18:8,9 19:15,21 unusual 12:13
18:12 23:5 38:13,14 58:24 53:2,8,14 54:16 22:11 32:18 35:23 usage 47:10
50:25 53:9 Supreme 1:1,12 55:4 57:1,18,21 36:25 37:22 60:24 use 39:24 47:7 54:4
62:14,15 sure 35:19 42:14 58:11,25 59:6 61:2,4,8 55:11
table 62:4 thousands 38:15 Tuesday 1:9 v 1:5 3:5
38:25 talking 4:6 18:3 timing 10:16 17:18 18:12 24:15 25:19 veracity 39:1
44:3,4 28:24 31:21,23 17:20 34:5 46:8 36:10 38:20 41:1 vice 40:6
62:2 59:17 today 62:2 type 47:10 42:25 43:2 45:8
65:10,12 tell 37:12 50:2 62:22 ton 54:16 violated 8:7 52:13
52:9,11 telling 34:9 top 39:25 ultimately 52:3 60:12 61:19
9:7 30:24 54:6 55:7,11,12 10(b) 44:4 60:9 6
42:7,25 43:1 work 26:23 36:5 10-b 40:7 6 34:4
49:8,12,12 54:11 10:01 1:13 3:2 60 2:14
50:1,8 51:8 world 11:25 34:10 100 26:23
52:7,12,13 51:15 57:6 11 57:16 7
58:22 worse 41:7 11:02 65:11 7 1:9
44:1 write 12:3 40:1 12(b)(6) 27:5
53:5 54:5 1939 23:7
48:4 60:1 written 12:2 17:21 20 47:23,24 48:1
10:18,18 20(b) 6:14 23:4
58:1 13:12 15:25 30:20 20(e) 52:7
45:8 46:15 206 61:24
62:2 X 215 61:24
x 1:2,7 22 28:9 55:14 56:23
38:4 42:19 37 40:11
50:18 54:15 09-525 1:4 3:4 4
25:4,6 36:20 42 19:19
52:14 57:3
59:17 5
