IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE :
ADMINISTRATION, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 09-530
v. :
ROBERT M. NELSON, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 5, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GENERAL NEAL K. KATYAL, ESQ., Acting Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Petitioners.
DAN STORMER, ESQ., Pasadena, California; on behalf
of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GENERAL NEAL K. KATYAL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DAN STORMER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GENERAL NEAL K. KATYAL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 09-530, National Aeronautics
and Space Administration v. Nelson.
Mr. Katyal.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GENERAL NEAL K. KATYAL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
GENERAL KATYAL: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
Background checks are a standard way of
doing business. The Government has required them for
all civil service employees since 1953 and for
contractors since 2005. If the Ninth Circuit in this
case held that a constitutional right to informational
privacy precluded asking the questions it asked, that
was wrong for two basic reasons.
First, the background checks' mere
collection of information with accompanying safeguards
vitiates no constitutional privacy interest. These
checks have been going on for millions of employees for
dozens of years. They are part of the employment
process. They are manifestly not roving checks on
random individuals. And, second -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Katyal, is there any
limit to what questions the Government can ask --
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- an applicant?
GENERAL KATYAL: The -- the limits are -- in
this case, are the ones on SF-85 and Form 42. And we do
think that that's a fairly --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What does that mean?
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, those two --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you ask somebody,
what's your genetic make-up, because we don't want
people with a gene that's predisposed to cancer,
whatever other -- could you ask that?
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, I think that the
Court doesn't need to confront that fairly --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We do, because I have to
start with the question of what are the limits on the
Government, if any? Are you taking the position that,
as an employer, there are absolutely none, or are you
taking the position that there are some, and what would
they be?
GENERAL KATYAL: Our position is, in a case
such as this, where there are collections on the
Government's dissemination of the information --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what you are saying
is, there's no limit?
GENERAL KATYAL: I -- I think that this
Court in Whalen -- and there is no decision thus far
that has recognized any constitutional limit on the
Government's collection of information, so long as there
are accompanying safeguards on the disseminations and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Katyal, why are
we getting into this? Because this case, it seems to
me, is a challenge -- your challenge to a preliminary
injunction which was quite narrow. There was only one
question at issue. There is no cross-appeal, is there?
GENERAL KATYAL: There -- there is no
cross-appeal.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So we have Form 85. The
only thing that's in contention there is the question
about treatment or counseling. Nothing else. So why
are we talking about the universe of what questions
might be asked?
And on the other form, I take it, it's just
the so-called open-ended questions, not everything on
the form.
GENERAL KATYAL: I quite agree, Justice
Ginsburg. That's what I was trying to say to Justice
Sotomayor; that is, I think that this case doesn't force
the Court to answer questions it has never really
answered, which are the outer limits of what the
Government can do in terms of the collection of
information.
Here you have a narrow decision by the Ninth
Circuit, one whose reasoning, I think, could radiate
very broadly and undermine Government -- the
Government's background checks generally.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, what do you think has
been -- there hasn't been a formal injunction entered, a
preliminary -- a preliminary injunction, has there?
GENERAL KATYAL: It's only -- it's at the
preliminary injunction stage.
But our -- our point is that the reasoning
that the Ninth Circuit used, if adopted -- if adopted to
create a permanent injunction, could preclude the
Government from asking all sorts of questions in
background -- in background checks, not just the ones it
isolated here, but more general ones, because the Ninth
Circuit decision is essentially a how-to manual on how
to question, various individual questions, and
micromanage them and inject Federal courts into --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought the -- the
entire Form 85 was approved, and there's no question you
could ask about, have you used drugs within the last
year? It's only the question about treatment and
counseling that's -- that is at issue, right?
GENERAL KATYAL: That's -- that's all that
the Ninth Circuit ruled on at the preliminary injunction
stage.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does that -- does
that ruling stop you from asking that question right now
throughout the Ninth Circuit?
GENERAL KATYAL: Which question? The drug
treatment question?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, no. The --
yes. Yes, the counseling and treatment question.
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, there's a -- the
mandate has been stayed --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
GENERAL KATYAL: -- so we haven't been able
to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if we sustained
-- if we sustain the preliminary injunction, the
Government can't ask that question throughout the --
the -- the reach of the Ninth Circuit?
GENERAL KATYAL: That's exactly correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and if we did so,
it would be because there is an underlying privacy right
that's somewhat ill-defined or undefined?
GENERAL KATYAL: Exactly, Justice Kennedy.
And if this Court were to embrace that reasoning -- and
this is my answer to you, Justice Ginsburg, as well --
then it doesn't just reach drug treatment. I could
imagine other litigants doing it for other forms of
questions, whatever they may be.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the -- the circuit
precedent, as far as the other questions on Form 85 --
the circuit said that's okay. It's permissible to ask
those questions.
GENERAL KATYAL: Thus far, that's correct.
But I could imagine other litigants coming in, and maybe
not just with respect to these questions but questions
on SF-85P or Form 86, any number of other things.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Katyal, what is the
well-defined, the well-defined, constitutional right to
institutional -- to informational privacy that the
Government is -- is willing to acknowledge? You -- you
apparently don't -- don't challenge the existence of
such a constitutional right.
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Scalia, our
position is that the Court doesn't need to answer that
question. It's just like Whalen, because in Whalen this
Court assumed the existence of some sort of
constitutional right and then said: Is that right
violated here?
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a strange way to
proceed. We normally don't do that, see? If there were
a constitutional right, would it cover this?
GENERAL KATYAL: I agree --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do we do that in cases? I
don't think so.
GENERAL KATYAL: I agree that in many other
contexts, it might not be appropriate, but here I think
there are some good reasons why. This Court has had
special reticence to the rule broadly in the range of
privacy, and I think the reason is privacy is something
that is in flux in ways that other things aren't, both
in terms of our social understandings, technology, and
legislation itself.
And for that reason, I think this Court has
spoken narrowly whenever it's dealt with --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That would justify not
defining it broadly or narrowly. It wouldn't justify
not reaching the question of whether there is any such
constitutional right at all.
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Scalia, that's what
this Court has done throughout its history. And Whalen
was a unanimous decision, and Nixon, on that particular
question, I don't think there was a disagreement about.
So --
JUSTICE ALITO: How can the Court determine
that the right is not violated here without having some
idea about either the existence or the contours of the
right?
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, I think it would just
be like in Whalen itself. So in Whalen, the Court said
there might be some right to informational privacy, but
so long as there are safeguards on the disclosure, the
Government's dissemination of the information, that
means that there is no --
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it -- is it your argument
that the Government can collect whatever information it
wants from private individuals so long as the
information is not publicly disseminated?
GENERAL KATYAL: No, that's not our
position. Our position here is that the Government can
collect information so long as it is not disseminated in
the employment context. And this case, unlike Whalen,
is one that has that added fact to it, that the
Government here is asking --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, does it -- does it
help us in finding what this residual background right
is and asking you: Why is it that you can't disclose
it?
GENERAL KATYAL: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why can't you disseminate
the information?
GENERAL KATYAL: Surely -- we are restricted
by statute, the privacy of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let's assume no statute.
GENERAL KATYAL: If you assume --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In other words, this is
just testing whether there is some background
constitutional right and how to define it, if we have to
use that as a beginning premise.
GENERAL KATYAL: Absolutely. If we took out
all of the safeguards that are at issue here, then the
case wouldn't be like Whalen or Nixon, in which you had
those -- in which you had safeguards in the
dissemination. And then you would have to confront the
question, which we think you shouldn't confront in this
case, for the reasons I said to Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And what would be your
position if the -- all this information were disclosed?
Or that there was an attempt to disclose all the
information, and they asked you for your advice --
GENERAL KATYAL: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- on a constitutional
basis?
GENERAL KATYAL: Right. I mean, our
position is that the Court really shouldn't, for all of
the reasons I said, get into it, but if the Court had to
get into it and ask is there some constitutional right
that would be violated, Justice Kennedy, by your
hypothetical, our answer would be no.
But we do think the way that this has been
traditionally been handled is legislation. Safeguards
for political processes --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So when you say your
position would be no, you mean that there is no right of
any kind under -- I know you don't want us to reach it,
but you would say there is no right of any kind for a
citizen to tell the Government that that's none of your
business. The Government will decide that it can ask
anything of a citizen, so long as you don't disclose it.
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, in the
employment/proprietor context. Okay? So if the Court
had to confront that question, it would apply the matrix
that Justice Scalia has talked about, the Glucksberg
matrix, of whether a right -- the right is firmly rooted
in the traditions of the people, and -- and ask: Is the
Government's collection --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think it's
firmly rooted in our traditions that there is some right
to tell the Government that's none of your business?
GENERAL KATYAL: I think there is some
right. The question about whether it employs in the
unique employment/proprietor context is one the Court
hasn't confronted, and our strong -- our strong position
here is the Court shouldn't confront it.
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the test -- what is
the test for determining what sort of questions can be
asked in the employment context? Is there any limit?
Suppose the -- suppose the Government says,
well, we want to know all about your diet; we want to
know whether you smoke cigarettes; we want to know
everything you read; we want to know what your hobbies
are, what forms of entertainment you enjoy, sexual
practices, every aspect of your private life, just
because that gives us a better picture of who you are as
an employee. Is that okay?
GENERAL KATYAL: Sure. No, there are
limits, and I should have said this earlier. If the
Government's collection of information or the disclosure
of the information burdens some other fundamental
constitutional right, that is certainly one limit.
So if the Government were collecting
information, Justice Alito, on sexual practices of its
employees, it may burden the exercise of other rights.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but that's
putting those aside. I mean, what about some of the
hypotheticals that Justice Alito posed? Your diet?
GENERAL KATYAL: Right. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's certainly
relevant in the employment context, right? They're
going to have to pay for your health care, worry you
might miss things, miss days of work.
So I guess the point is: Do you think the
Government's right to inquire in the employment context
is exactly as broad as a private employer's right?
GENERAL KATYAL: I do think that if the
private employer -- the private employers are a good
template. If the Government is simply mirroring what
private employers do, as Justice Scalia said in O'Connor
v. Ortega, that's a good suggestion that what it's doing
is reasonable.
Now, to the extent, Justice Alito, that they
are gradating far beyond what private employers do, in
terms of asking about eating habits and the like, I do
think that that may pose -- that there may be some
limits. The Court doesn't need to confront that here.
It simply needs to look at the Ninth Circuit's decision,
which recognize a broad, free-standing right against
informational collection of its employees to make sure
and -- and realize that that is a serious problem for
the way the Government does business.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We do have a legislature,
don't we, that can place some limits on what the
Government asks employees or anybody else?
GENERAL KATYAL: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's the same legislature
that prohibited the Government from disclosing a lot of
information, isn't it?
GENERAL KATYAL: That's precisely correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it's possible that
that's the protection that the Framers envisioned,
rather than having courts ride herd on -- on Government
inquiries.
GENERAL KATYAL: It's certainly possible,
Justice Scalia. I think that all of these hypotheticals
are enormously interesting, but the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Were these two forms
approved by Congress?
GENERAL KATYAL: The forms themselves were
not approved by Congress, but the Privacy Act, which is
the main restriction --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's a restriction on
disclosure, but the same Congress can change that,
correct?
GENERAL KATYAL: That's absolutely correct.
The Privacy Act has been around since 1975, and the
Government has collected -- you know, it's been used
millions of times, SF-85. It's been used 553,000 times
in the last 4 years, and we have not seen the types of
disclosure or complaints that I think animate the worry
that my friends on the other side are saying.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the
reason -- I've had trouble putting my finger on it --
that you need the information about counseling?
You already have the information, have you
used drugs in the past year? I couldn't tell if you
thought the question about counseling was for the good
of the employee -- oh, you are taking steps to -- or was
it to allow you to show, well, it must be serious,
because you need counseling.
GENERAL KATYAL: It is for the good of the
employee, so it's a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, now that's --
whenever the Government comes and says this is for your
own good, you have to be --
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- you have to be a
little suspicious.
I mean, if it's -- the employee gets to
expand upon his or her answer. They say, tell us about
it. And they can say, don't worry, I'm in counseling or
treatment. And even then, that doesn't sound like it's
for their good. It's one thing to say, I had a drink.
It's another thing to say, I'm in AA.
GENERAL KATYAL: Mr. Chief Justice, the way
the question is framed is, first, they are asked, have
you used illegal drugs in the last year? And then --
and then, if the answer is yes, provide details and then
indicate any treatment or counseling received.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, I had a
question about the way it's worded. You're supposed --
it says, if you've used it in the last year, detail your
involvement with drugs and any counseling you received.
Do you understand the counseling question to
be limited to the past year, or to reach back as far
as --
GENERAL KATYAL: I -- I think that the
question itself is vague.
Now, the way that our -- that the Office of
Personnel Management will process such a form is it will
process anything so long as there is information about
just drug use on the question --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But do you think
it's required? I mean, you do sign at the end, this is
true to the best -- do you think it's required to
disclose counseling and treatment you received more than
a year back?
GENERAL KATYAL: No. This is unlike, for
example, SF-86, which does ask for treatment and
counseling back up to, I think, a 7-year period.
So I think this is a much more narrow
inquiry, and I think the reason for that inquiry is to
help the employee. The Government -- the background
investigation --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The answer to that is
obvious. It was raised by the other side. If it's for
the good of the employee, make it voluntary.
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I
think that that's the type -- that that's the type of
inquiry that this Court rejected in Whalen. Because in
Whalen, the whole debate in the court, in the district
court below, was, well, if you want to stop doctor
prescription mills people from providing too many
narcotics, you don't need the names and ages of the
patients. We could change the triplicate forms and
redact that.
But what this Court said on the second page
of its opinion was it called that Lochnerian, that
Federal courts shouldn't be policing forms and excising
or suggesting random different -- you know, a few
different words here or there.
And here, experts put this form together to
try and get at, basically, are you using drugs and are
you using treatment which might ameliorate the fact that
you had used illegal drugs in the last year.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I had thought before
the argument that one of the purposes for asking about
treatment was to identify employees who may have
undergone treatment on numerous occasions and dropped
out of programs and been unsuccessful, so as to identify
chronic drug abusers. But I guess in light of what
you've just said, that this only reaches back 1 year,
that is not a purpose of this -- this question.
GENERAL KATYAL: That is correct, and in
preparation for this, we did survey all of the NASA
different centers to ask, has treatment ever been used
in any sort of way to hurt an employee? And the answer
that came back was, no, it has not been used. It has
only been used to help. It is to retain someone who did
use illegal drugs but is taking steps to mitigate.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how do you
know -- how do you know that? I mean, you ask a lot of
questions on these forms, and they say, well, we're not
going to hire you. How can you go back and say it was
because you put in, you know, in treatment for -- for
drug abuse?
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, the process by which
this takes place is the form is filled out. It is
ultimately sent to an adjudicator if there is negative
information, and that -- and that information is then
discussed with the candidate for employment or the
employee to see if they have an explanation. And of the
times that this has happened, that someone has been
denied -- and I think the number is 128 times over the
-- over the last 5 years -- none have been denied for a
positive answer to drug treatment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Over the last 5
years, this has only come into play 128 times across the
Federal bureaucracy?
GENERAL KATYAL: For Federal contractors.
That is correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Federal contractors.
GENERAL KATYAL: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I'm not sure
I understand the answer. Only 128 times has somebody
identified themselves as a drug user?
GENERAL KATYAL: One hundred and
twenty-eight times, the SF-85 process, is my
understanding, has been used to deny someone a
credential of the Federal contractor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So it could be for any
other answers as well?
GENERAL KATYAL: For anything. Exactly.
About -- and I think there have been about 74,000
contractors that have sought -- sought badges through
the SF-85 since --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you representing to
us that every employee who is rejected will know the
reason?
GENERAL KATYAL: That is correct. That is
part of -- that is part of the regulations that are in
place, so that if someone is denied a credential -- and
this is, I think, at Joint Appendix page 180 -- they are
told the reason for that denial. They are given an
opportunity to explain themselves, and a process is then
put in place. There is then also robust appeal and
other things that may happen as well.
But one thing that doesn't happen, Justice
Sotomayor, is that JPL, the contractor, is not told the
basis for why the person is denied a credential, that it
is private as between the Government -- here, NASA --
and the individual employee. And that is the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So where does the
suitability matrix come in?
GENERAL KATYAL: It doesn't.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It doesn't?
GENERAL KATYAL: It doesn't.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And NASA has never used
it? You're representing that to the Court?
GENERAL KATYAL: I'm representing that NASA
has -- NASA will not and does not use this employee
suitability chart to make contractor credentialing
decisions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where did it come from?
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, it's -- it's been
hard to actually pin down where it came from. I think
it is derived from earlier Office of Personnel
Management materials at a time when it listed out what
various crimes were. And so some of those things that
are on there that are quite salacious are things that
OPM, at earlier points in time, looked to, not for
contractors, but for Government employees.
But I can represent to the Court that NASA
does not and will not use this chart for credentialing
decisions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you -- do you have a
clear idea of how the Form 42 would have to be amended
if the Respondents are correct? Form 85, we know, is
the excised "counseling or treatment." What in the Form
85 did the Ninth Circuit say -- it said "open-ended
questions," but I looked at the form, and it's not clear
to me which ones they considered open-ended.
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Ginsburg, I quite
agree with you. I don't think that the Ninth Circuit's
reasoning is capable of being ameliorated easily.
So we talked before about how the drug
treatment was just a narrow part of the Ninth Circuit
decision, but this Form 42 -- the invalidation of Form
42, goes to the heart of what the Government does all
the time and what all employers do. They ask open-ended
questions to figure out whether someone is trustworthy
and reliable. I think as Judge --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General -- I'm sorry.
Go ahead and finish.
GENERAL KATYAL: I think as Judge Kleinfeld
said, that's how law clerks are hired, and that's how
baristas at Starbucks are hired. You have to ask these
open-ended questions because as an employer, you don't
really know what -- where the pressure points or danger
spots in an individual application are.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is your position today
that our ruling should say that the Government is free
to ask, as a private employer or a contractor -- it is
free to ask any question it wants whatsoever?
GENERAL KATYAL: That is not what we're
saying. We --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If you were not saying
that, then what's the narrower ruling? Because that's
what I thought I heard at the beginning of our colloquy
today.
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Sotomayor, the
narrow rule is what we said in our petition and what we
said on the very last page of our reply brief and all
throughout, which is, this Court should simply say what
it said in Whalen, which is assuming that there is some
sort of right to informational privacy, the -- the use
of a background check with accompanying safeguards to
collect information doesn't violate any constitutional
right to privacy.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, why wouldn't that
violate it if the question involved a fundamental right?
If you were asking the question that Justice Alito
asked, which is, what's your sexual practices in the
bedroom, if there are security checks against you
disclosing it, you're saying even that would be okay?
GENERAL KATYAL: I could imagine a
circumstance far afield from this one in which the
Government's just mere collection of information about
sexual practices might burden the exercise of those
rights. I'm saying it's not at all present here, but --
and I don't think the Court should get into it.
But that's a really different question than
the one here, which is: Is there some free-standing
right to constitutional privacy that is unburdened by
the fact that there are protections against the
disclosure of information? Here, the Privacy Act
imposes strong protections against the disclosure of
information. And so what's left is a very residual
interest in the part of the employees.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Don't -- this is a bit
unsatisfying because you start by saying to us, as long
as there are some nondisclosure protections, then
virtually any question, whether it impinges a
fundamental right or not, would be okay, because
there's -- I don't even know what the Government's
interest is in asking every question it wants to.
There has to be a need for a set of
questions, doesn't there?
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, I could imagine an
as-applied challenge to, for example, you know, the
hypothetical on sexual practices or whatever.
I do think, as Justice Scalia said, the real
check on that is the political process check. The fact
is that the Government doesn't ask those kinds of
questions, and -- and to the extent it ever did, the
Court could confront that in an as-applied challenge.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I still don't see why
that -- why the universe is before us, because the Ninth
Circuit said some of this form is okay; most of Form 85
is okay, and some of Form 42 is okay. I thought it was
only the questions under 7 and 8, the open-ended
questions. I didn't think the Ninth Circuit had
enjoined anything other than those questions.
GENERAL KATYAL: Those questions,
Justice Ginsburg, are really the heart of the form. I
mean, those are the most -- in many ways the most
important questions, because they're the ones that
employers have to ask because they don't know the
weaknesses in an individual applicant's background.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: There are a number of
statements in, I guess, the concurrence from the denial
of en banc, explaining how JPL is fairly open, and it is
close to the Pasadena courthouse. Pasadena residents
and judges visit JPL often.
Are there any statements of fact that you
don't agree with that are not in the record, other than
the matrix question? Leave that aside.
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, yes, I mean, I would
say a few things. Number one is I think that the
concurring judge did -- did, I think, underestimate how
important security is there.
First of all, there are armed guards when
you're coming in. It is not the campus-like atmosphere.
It's not like a campus I'm familiar that she described.
The information at the debate -- at JPL is sensitive,
quite sensitive, both, you know, in terms of
scientifically and with respect to our nation's secrets.
And I think more important point about this
is the badge that the Plaintiffs were seeking access to
don't -- doesn't just give them access to JPL. It will
also give them other access to all other NASA
facilities. And it's such an important credential that
it would allow them to get within, for example, 6 to 10
feet of the space shuttle as it's being repaired and
readied for launch. So this is a credential not just
for JPL and getting onto JPL, but other places as well.
If I could reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Stormer.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAN STORMER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. STORMER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The issue as now characterized is really how
far may a Government go, may this Government go, to
intrude into the private lives of its citizens, both in
positions that do not involve sensitive issues,
classified issues, national security issues, or
positions of public trust?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Stormer, what provision
of the Constitution are you relying -- I looked at your
table of authorities in your brief, and you have cases
listed, you have statutes listed; there is not a single
citation anywhere in your brief to a provision of the
Constitution.
What provision of the Constitution are you
relying on?
MR. STORMER: It would mostly fall --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think it's a very nice
thing that the Government shouldn't ask intrusive
questions. I also think it's a nice thing that the
Government should pay a living wage to its employees,
but I don't feel authorized to go around saying how much
the Government should pay each of its employees because
there is nothing in the Constitution about that, and the
question is left to Congress.
What do you rely on in the Constitution that
enables me to decide how much intrusiveness is too much,
rather than leaving that to Congress?
MR. STORMER: It would flow from the ordered
concept of liberty component of the Fifth Amendment, as
well as the First Amendment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The Fifth Amendment? Okay.
Which says no person shall be deprived of what?
MR. STORMER: Of life -- I mean, no person
shall be deprived of due process of law, and then the
last --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Due process of law.
MR. STORMER: -- refers to the concept of --
ordered concept of liberty.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. That -- that's
what I thought. You're talking substantive due process
here.
MR. STORMER: Well, the Whalen case, the
Nixon case, and to some extent, the Reporters Committee
case refer to this concept of privacy. And they are, in
fact, vague, but they do talk about the concept of
privacy as being the right to control information about
oneself.
And -- and both -- and all of the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, I like that, but I
just don't see it anywhere in the Constitution. That's
all I'm taking about.
MR. STORMER: Well, I -- there -- those
cases, in fact, do not refer to a term called
"informational privacy." Those terms have grown from
the various cases that have flowed from the
determinations in Whalen and Nixon and, to some extent,
Reporters Committee.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that right is subject
to what level of scrutiny? Is it always strict
scrutiny? And how do you square Whalen and Nixon's
balancing with strict scrutiny?
MR. STORMER: The -- the standard would
be -- I think the appropriate standard was applied by
the Ninth Circuit, which is a legitimate state interest
narrowly tailored to meet that need.
In this case, there is some -- like the Von
Raab case, which is not cited in our brief but which is
a Fourth Amendment case, the -- this Court used a
compelling state interest standard for a Fourth
Amendment invasion. And in that case, the Court
remanded on the issue of whether or not the positions
involved classified or sensitive materials.
JUSTICE BREYER: So what is your view of
what the liberty -- you're saying that the words in the
Constitution that protect the right that you claim was
violated are the words, "No person shall be" -- I
guess -- "deprived of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law." I guess you mean the word
"liberty."
MR. STORMER: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. And in your
words, it is liberty -- define it. Liberty to what?
MR. STORMER: Liberty to control information
about oneself. The liberty to --
JUSTICE BREYER: There is a right to liberty
to control information about oneself?
MR. STORMER: Without governmental
intrusion.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. And all
information? Some information?
MR. STORMER: Well, there --
JUSTICE BREYER: Liberty -- there's a
liberty to control all information? Protected from --
from what? From the state? The state doesn't have a
right to give you any -- get any information about you?
On a driver's license? It's -- what? When does it come
into play?
MR. STORMER: It comes into play when the
government, the state, seeks to intrude and obtain
information from an individual. The -- the --
JUSTICE BREYER: So the fact that the
government says -- I go and I want my driver's license,
and they say fill out the form, we want to see how
you -- if you can drive or not, that potentially could
violate the Constitution?
MR. STORMER: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: Potentially. It might not,
because it might be justified, but each such case would
have to be justified. Is that -- is that your theory?
MR. STORMER: Any intrusion into private
lives would have to have some --
JUSTICE BREYER: It says "liberty." The
liberty, you said, was liberty to control information
about yourself.
MR. STORMER: That was the --
JUSTICE BREYER: So I want to know how that
works. Every time anyone in the Government asks a
question about you personally -- of course, it wouldn't
be unconstitutional -- but every time it would have to
be a justified thing; is that -- is that your theory?
I'm just asking.
MR. STORMER: That -- yes, it is.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that's all
information about yourself?
MR. STORMER: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think what Justice
Breyer is getting to and that I'm trying to figure out
is you've used the word "privacy." What does privacy
relate to?
MR. STORMER: Privacy relates, in this case,
to the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, I'm talking
about -- answer his broad question, which is -- you've
defined the constitutional right to information about
yourself.
MR. STORMER: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that all information
about yourself, including your date of birth, your
Social Security number, your -- where you live, where
you've gone to school, who your friends, who your
references are? Because as broadly as you've defined
that, it would include all of that.
MR. STORMER: It -- the -- the nature of
what is included can be intruded upon based upon a
governmental need. So if there's a rational basis for
knowing Social Security numbers, driver's license,
census information, that type of information, then --
then there's not an issue.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So this gets back to
Justice Sotomayor's earlier question. You just said if
there is a rational basis, so is that the test?
MR. STORMER: The test --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No matter what type
of information? I suppose it's harder to show a
rational basis when you get into certain areas that --
that concern you, but is it a rational basis test?
MR. STORMER: In this case, I think it's a
legitimate state interest, narrowly tailored to meet
that interest, Your Honor. It's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But in the case of a
date of birth for a driver's license, you say it's
rational basis?
MR. STORMER: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And so, what -- how do we
decide? I'm a little interested, if you could spend 2
or 3 minutes elaborating this.
A number of laws, Federal laws -- I imagine
the regulations fill this room, and I think many --
maybe more, maybe several rooms. And many of them
involve asking people for information. And the number
of forms that ask people for information, I guess, about
themselves, might fill several rooms. And I can imagine
in a country of 300 million people, you would find
someone objecting to many of the questions.
And so, how is the system supposed to work,
in your view, where judges will decide whether a
particular question -- I'm not saying you're wrong. I
just wanted to get an idea from you as to how this legal
system works, where any question asked by the Government
about a person is potentially subject to challenge as
unconstitutional. You and I will agree that many are
fine. But you are worried about some that aren't fine.
How does it work, the system, distinguishing
the ones from the other?
MR. STORMER: Well, this Court has done much
of that already in a whole history of cases:
Contraception, procreation, marriage, sexual relations,
family relations --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The fundamental rights
issue that the Sixth Amendment identified, are those the
questions that are subject to that greater scrutiny?
MR. STORMER: The -- the rights that go --
the questions that go to those types of -- which could
elicit that type of information.
For instance, on Form 42, if they said, tell
us any adverse information you have about this person,
which includes any other matters. This could be -- they
could respond with saying, well, I don't like the way
he -- how many kids he has; I don't like his religion; I
don't like his sexual practices.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But isn't that question,
that kind of open-ended question, routinely used in
employment situations? That is, the employer wants to
know is there any adverse information about this person?
Doesn't know which question to ask, because there's a
whole -- many things that could be relevant.
So are you suggesting that that kind of
question is off-limits to the Government, although it is
routinely used in other employment sectors?
MR. STORMER: It is not routinely used in
employment sectors where there is allowed to inquiry --
inquiry into non-employment-related --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, it has a legend on
the top. Everything that we are asking you is meant
to -- to determine suitability for employment. So they
want to find out information relevant to suitability for
employment.
MR. STORMER: And for security clearances.
Those are the two issues.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I -- I have to agree
with the implication of Justice Ginsburg's remark, at
least what I imply from it.
Look at the private employment sphere. It
seems to me that for a sensitive position, a bank who
has people taking care of -- its employees taking care
of other people's money, or the medical profession, that
the employer could be sued and would be remiss if it did
not ask this question.
Do you know anything adverse about this
person whom we're going to hire for a very sensitive
position?
MR. STORMER: That --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: This is done all the time,
and we do it with -- a judge said below, with our law
clerks.
MR. STORMER: That would be exactly my
point, Your Honor. It is in those situations where
there are sensitive issues, you're allowed to inquire
based on the need.
But here, they are inquiring -- the snack
bar worker, the -- the bus driver, the gift shop
operator, are -- are required to respond to these
questions. The GS-4 Interior Department clerk. The
Government's position is all of those are subject to
this same type of inquiry.
JUSTICE ALITO: I don't see what the
alternative, as a practical matter, is to asking this
sort of open-ended question. The -- the alternative
would seem to be to try to compile a list of every
possible thing that the -- the person might do that
would raise serious questions about suitability for
employment or would be disqualifying for employment.
And that seems to be impractical.
There's almost no limit to the -- the sorts
of things that might be relevant in that respect; isn't
that right?
MR. STORMER: This goes to the very basic
question of why does the Government need to know this
information for these individuals, most of whom have
been there for 20 to 30 years? The Government can't
show a single instance of any of these individuals doing
anything that would require any of the type of
scrutiny --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you then saying that
these people have to be grandfathered or grandparented
because they worked for 20 years --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- without --
MR. STORMER: I am not, Your Honor. But the
Government has some burden to show a need to inquire
into these privacy areas. It needs to know if you have
gone to the Betty Ford Clinic.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you are making a --
you said that these people have worked there for
20 years. Are they different from the new employee?
Are you suggesting it's okay for the new employee, but
not okay --
MR. STORMER: I am not.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- for the person who is
already in the job?
MR. STORMER: I -- I am not. The -- the
difference between this case and, ultimately, what was
allowed in both Whalen and Nixon -- excuse me,
particularly in Whalen -- is that there was some
overarching societal need to have this information.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose the person who
works at the -- at the gift shop or the snack bar -- I
think that's what you mentioned -- has a big sign on his
front lawn that says, "I hope the space shuttle blows
up."
Is that information the Government has a
legitimate reason to get?
MR. STORMER: I would agree that -- that in
that instance, "I hope the space shuttle blows up,"
would certainly implicate some First Amendment issues,
but the Government should know that information.
JUSTICE ALITO: And now, what's the
alternative to acquiring that information through an
open-ended question? You have to have a specific
question on the form: Does this individual have a big
sign on his front lawn that says --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE ALITO: -- "I hope the space shuttle
blows up"?
MR. STORMER: I wouldn't think that that
would be needed. I think that --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you see what I am getting
at? I don't see how you are going to do this, other
than by asking an open-ended question.
MR. STORMER: Only if you need to know the
answers. And for the snack bar worker or the GS
clerk-typist, for those types of people who have no
access to sensitive information, do not -- it can -- the
definition here is that these are no- or low-risk --
they are low-risk employees, which is defined as, if
they misuse their position, they will have little or no
impact on the agency mission.
So we know that these questions are being
asked of people who, if they completely misused their
position, there will be no impact --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- just to -- I'd
like to get back to Justice Breyer's question.
So now you not only have to decide which
questions -- they can challenge any question they want
and say this isn't pertinent, but you also have to
categorize which employees are being asked that
question.
This is a -- SF means "standard form,"
right?
MR. STORMER: It does.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that -- you
know, it's a big government, and they can't tailor every
inquiry, every form, to the individual applicant.
MR. STORMER: It -- it can to the positions.
This -- this -- what is being done now, if they've done
70,000 inquiries, that means -- and 128 issues arose,
that means a whole host of people, over 69,000 people,
have had to give up information that otherwise they
would not have to give up --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you suggesting
that this is no good for Government employment? You
were dealing with a contractor here, but this form, as I
understand it, has been used for -- for many years for
standard Government employment.
Is it -- are they okay? And for
nonsensitive positions, are you -- are you arguing just
Government contractor or are you saying even for the
Government employee, the person who's hired to work at
the snack bar in the Senate, let's say, the Government
can't ask these questions?
MR. STORMER: If I understand Your Honor's
question, and I apologize, I -- I think this cannot be
asked of -- these questions cannot be asked of people
for whom the Government does not have a justifiable need
to know that information.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But we can handle those
details. My goodness, it's all right there in the
Constitution. And we can decide what -- what employees
have to know what, and what questions you can ask them,
and how much privacy is too much privacy, right?
MR. STORMER: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a piece of cake.
MR. STORMER: The Government is -- claims to
be acting as the employer here. In fact, it is not. It
is -- it's once or twice removed. But assuming that the
Government is the employer, there is a massive amount of
waste that is generated by this form.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You are -- you are
attacking these forms for all Government employment, not
just the contractors?
MR. STORMER: I -- I don't -- it -- I think
it would apply to all of those people who are in
nonsensitive positions. This is the Government's
definition; it's not our definition. We chose the
Government's definition.
And if it is a low-risk or a no-risk
employee, then the Government doesn't have a need to
know. A private employer could not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you don't
know -- you don't know if it's a low-risk employee until
you find out what he -- he or she is like or what the
neighbor thinks. Well, you know, he keeps practicing
planting bombs or something. I mean, then he becomes a
high-risk employee. You don't know until you get the
information. That's the reason you ask for it.
MR. STORMER: In the context of these
employees for this particular case, we absolutely know,
because the Government went through, and of the 7,500
employees there, it categorized 97 percent as low- or
no-risk employees. So, we know in this context where
they are already employed and it's just a badging
procedure. What the Government did here --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I thought -- I
thought that your friend said that the badge enables you
to get within 10 feet of the shuttle?
MR. STORMER: I don't know that for a fact.
I do know that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, do you contradict
that? And if it's so, how can you say that these people
are low-risk employees?
MR. STORMER: Because the Government says
they are low- or no-risk employees.
This is a campus atmosphere. I have been
there. I have seen it. If you want -- if I want to go
on, I just call up Dr. Nelson and say, can you get me
on? If I'm on there, and my car breaks down and I call
up and I say can the AAA auto come on, I just call the
gate and the AAA auto person, they say, yeah, just let
him in. The -- the people who have -- bring supplies on
they just come on. This is a campus where they don't
have --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does al-Qaeda know all this
stuff?
MR. STORMER: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does al-Qaeda know this?
(Laughter .)
MR. STORMER: Well, the interesting response
to that, Your Honor, is that it wouldn't matter if they
knew this, because it's open, transparent science by a
civilian agency in a campus atmosphere. This is not
a -- weapons, national security --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What you're
saying -- what you're saying is it may not make much
sense to have the people here fill out Standard Form 85,
but the Government can't tailor its open -- opening
security form to people that -- you know, maybe down the
road at a different NASA laboratory, they do work on
more sensitive information. It's a standard form. The
Government has to do things in a standard way.
MR. STORMER: And the Government has a form
for those people who work in classified information.
That's SF-85P, SF-85S, and SF-86. The Government can
standardize, and when it acts as the employer, it has an
obligation, because it can't take both it's ability and
authority as the Government and -- and overreach into
the private lives of its citizens. The questions that
are being asked here would not be allowed for a private
employer --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm -- I'm very surprised
to hear that. I thought that -- that it -- there were
in -- in the private sector similar questions.
MR. STORMER: Similar but not questions that
would go -- you couldn't, as a private employer, say you
have to turn over your medical records, you have to turn
over --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where does it say you
have to turn over your medical records?
MR. STORMER: That's in SF -- SF-85 page 6,
which is the release. And all of this has to be
inquired into --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under what -- under
what law could you -- a private employer not ask for
those records?
MR. STORMER: In the State of California
under the right to privacy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, we're talking
about under general federal law.
MR. STORMER: Most -- general federal law, I
cannot answer that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it's a matter of
statutory law.
MR. STORMER: Yes -- well, in some States
there's a -- where there's a privacy right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Question 42, do you
have -- pardon me. Question 7 on Form 42, the -- the
standard one -- do you have any adverse information
about this person's employment, residence, or activities
concerning, and so forth -- a violation of the law? Are
you saying that private employers cannot ask that
question?
MR. STORMER: They can't ask the question --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The prospective private
employer?
MR. STORMER: -- in the context of the
release which is SF-85 page 6, which requires that you
release your private records, extensive records,
residential, retail businesses, where you shop, your
educational, your --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I'm asking whether or
not a private employer can ask third persons the
question that's at Form 42 question 7. I thought your
representation to me was that private employers cannot
ask that question.
MR. STORMER: I -- I -- if I said that, Your
Honor, I misspoke. The question goes --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that was enjoined by
the court below; was it not?
MR. STORMER: It was.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right.
MR. STORMER: Question 7 talks about
financial integrity, mental and emotional stability,
general -- general behavior or conduct, or other
matters. If a private employer, in many States, goes
into non-employment-related issues, it's -- it's
contrary to --
JUSTICE BREYER: What is your view on that
question? You know, there's a famous, funny example
that supposedly may be untrue. Senator Hruska used to
ask and say -- in giving a reference, he would write
about someone, you'll be lucky if you can get Smith to
work for you. That's --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the kind of thing
that you might want to know, and despite the ambiguity
there, and it seemed to me that question 7 sort of drove
at that. And so -- but they did enjoin it. So, in your
view, is that aspect of the injunction wrong?
MR. STORMER: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, then, if it's
right, why is it right? Because it seems to me the
basic thing any employer would want to know is whether
I'm lucky to get this person to work for me, that kind
of thing.
MR. STORMER: Any employer can ask issues
that are employment-related and based upon the nature of
the job. You can ask those questions, but any employer
can't require, as a condition of employment, that you
sign a release that gives them all manner of information
as to where you shop, how you shop --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, what is the
specific thing about question 7 that you think is
unlawful or should be changed? What words do you object
to in that question?
MR. STORMER: Well, other matters, general
behavior or conduct, certainly.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So they cannot
ask, do you have any information about this person's
employment, residence, or activities concerning general
behavior or conduct or other matters? Now, I am an
employer and I'd like to find out if he's going to do a
good job. So what am I supposed to say? There doesn't
seem to be a place here other than that to get into that
question.
MR. STORMER: That's because these -- this
question for the types of situations is not needed. The
question that is needed is, what are the characteristics
that you feel he has for this job?
JUSTICE BREYER: I see. I see.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you say a private
employer could not ask a question of such detail? Why
could not --
MR. STORMER: Primarily because of the
release. That's the sixth page of Standard Form 85.
That release just allows the Government --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why could a private
employer not -- not do it?
MR. STORMER: Because, in virtually every
State, there are laws requiring the disclosure of
private information --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you mean that
legislatures take care of these matters? I find it
curious that in order to establish a Federal
constitutional right, which turns this area over to this
Court, you invoke laws that have been democratically
enacted by State legislatures. I mean, if indeed that's
-- that's the criterion, maybe you don't need us.
MR. STORMER: I -- the reason I invoke that
is because the Government has stated that any private
attorney could ask these questions, and that's a
misstatement of the law in most States.
JUSTICE ALITO: May I ask you this question
about the question on drug treatment? Would it be
unconstitutional for the Government to take the position
that to require an employee or applicant for employment
to disclose whether this individual had violated Federal
or State drug laws and take the position that if the
person gave an affirmative answer that was
disqualifying, would that be unconstitutional?
MR. STORMER: If they've said I violated
State or Federal laws, not on its face so long as if it
said voluntarily you may show mitigation that -- that
would show that this is not a problem that would make
you unfit for the job.
JUSTICE ALITO: So they could -- they could
say, have you bought, sold, used drugs in violation of
Federal or State law? If so, you're disqualified,
unless you can show that you have had treatment. And
then it's up to you to disclose whether you've had
treatment.
MR. STORMER: That's correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: What's really the difference
between that regime and this -- and what you have here?
MR. STORMER: The difference is here is
because it is compelled. It's a compelled disclosure
and not offering you the opportunity to make a showing.
And in this concept, the appeal right that you have from
this is not a robust appeal right that was described.
It's a very limited appeal that's internal to the
department, that does not have a right to confront or
cross-examine --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can I ask you to clarify
your understanding of what has been enjoined? We know
it's easy for Form 85. For Form 42, you mentioned the
releases. I thought that the Ninth Circuit's order
covers parts of question 7 and perhaps question 8. I
didn't see -- is there something, maybe I missed it,
that says they can ask for release of the records?
MR. STORMER: There was in the emergency
order specific reference to the -- to the release.
There was not in the final order, but the order -- the
question can't -- has to be read in the context of the
release, because that's how they get to -- if you go to
the Betty Ford Clinic --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they didn't say,
Government, you can't ask for the release.
MR. STORMER: They did not.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They said you can't ask
open-ended questions.
MR. STORMER: That's correct. They did not
say that, but it has to be implicit in their ruling
because in many of the cases --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If somebody is going to
be enjoined, I mean, it can't be implicit in the ruling
if you are enjoined. Because it has been stayed, you
don't have a formal order, but you can't say, well, it's
implicit in the, how many page, opinion.
MR. STORMER: The -- well, in the court
below, for instance, the argument that the Government
made was that they needed to have the medical records,
not that they just needed this information, that they
needed to have the medical records.
The question that logically flows is, what
can they do with this information once they learn that
you had counseling? Then I guess they can ask you who
the counsellor was, what you told the counsellor, what
was the purpose of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: As I understand this
process, this is not an oral interview. It's not -- you
fill out a form, you meet somebody, and they ask
follow-up questions. This is -- this handled on the
papers, right?
MR. STORMER: It's handled -- first you
reveal the information, and then there are 22 approvers
at JPL, civilians who are not employed by NASA. They
review it; then it goes to NASA and then there's a whole
series --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. But is there -- is
there an oral interview in this process?
MR. STORMER: There is not.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So then they wouldn't
say -- it says here, so I'm going to ask this, that, and
the other thing. There's this -- it's a
written procedure.
MR. STORMER: I may have misspoken. It
doesn't preclude an oral interview. I am not aware of
oral interviews having been made or taken.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You said there are 22
people at JPL that are involved in the employment?
MR. STORMER: There are 22 in the -- the
Government has approved 22 so-called approvers, who are
at JPL, who look over -- who are eligible to look over
these forms and the responses to the forms.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you
understand the scope of the preliminary injunction to
be? Does it bar the solicitation of this information
throughout the Ninth Circuit or only with respect to
JPL?
MR. STORMER: At this point, it only applies
to -- well -- this is not before the -- part of the
record, but when it went back to the district court, the
district court and all parties agreed that it would only
apply -- HSPD-12 would be limited to these 28
individuals, that investigation.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General Katyal, you have 4 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL K. KATYAL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Ginsburg, you had
asked earlier whether this was a narrow decision on just
a couple of questions, and I think that the argument
that you just heard from my friend illustrates that it's
not. He asks for a, quote, "free-standing right to
control information" --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But whatever he asks, we
are reviewing a judgment.
GENERAL KATYAL: Right. And the judgment --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the judgment is not
the universe; it's certain questions can be asked.
GENERAL KATYAL: And the judgment is based
on the following rationale -- this is from the Petition
Appendix at page 18a from the Ninth Circuit. "If the
Government's actions compel disclosure of private
information, it has the burden of showing that its use
of the information would advance a legitimate state
interest and that its actions are narrowly tailored to
meet the legitimate interest."
Now, that reasoning was used to invalidate a
question, as Justice Kennedy said, on Form 42, that
employers ask all the time. Banks ask it and the like.
And it's a -- and it's used to invalidate parts of a
standard form that the Government uses day in and day
out and that employers generally use in order to make
employment decisions.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you conceding you
can't meet that standard, or are you saying that the
Ninth Circuit misapplied that standard?
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, no, we're not
conceding that at all. I do think we would meet the
standard, but our point is it's the same point as in
Engquist, in the Chief Justices's opinion in Engquist v.
Oregon, which is forcing the Government to have to march
into court every time and justify a question here or an
employee there or soup clerk here or whatever, all of
those different inquiries pose practical burdens on the
ability of the Government to operate. And so --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think there's
something wrong with the Government having to explain
why it seeks information? I mean, I would think that
would be fairly simple in virtually every situation.
GENERAL KATYAL: I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I ask that question
because that begs the question of can you ask anything
you want regardless of why?
GENERAL KATYAL: I think that political
process ensures that the Government generally has to ask
-- has answer that question writ large, but in order for
the Ninth Circuit's reasoning to apply, it would permit
any individual person here or there to ask the
question --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't see how that's so
because, at least if you're in the Ninth Circuit, you
know that the Ninth Circuit has blessed all the
questions on that form but one.
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, that's only --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, I mean, you could
raise the question, but you'd be out of court in a
minute.
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Ginsburg, I think
that's only because the challenge -- or the Petitioners
here only challenge certain questions. Now, I could
imagine other petitioners challenging other questions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought they did in the
lower court but abandoned it here, challenge the
question about the drug use.
GENERAL KATYAL: The drug use piece, but I
could imagine all sorts of inquires about other aspects
of the form. And, indeed, the rationale, the language
that I just read to you is a road map for anyone to be
able to come in and say, well, this -- this question
isn't -- isn't necessary for me because I got a
background clearance before, I'm rehired, or whatever.
And it would be a huge practical burden in the same way
as recognizing the cause of action in Engquist was a
practical burden. Instead, we think what the Court
should do here is what it did in Whalen, which is
recognize governments collect information all the time,
collect --
JUSTICE ALITO: How much of the information
that's at issue here can be released and to whom?
GENERAL KATYAL: The information that can be
collected that's released here is governed by the
Privacy Act. And so there are -- the appendix to our
brief lists out precisely to whom they could be released
to, and that has been around since 1975. We've seen
virtually no complaints about the Government disclosing
this type of background information on the SF-85.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that also within the
Government itself? I know the Privacy Act says the
Government can't disclose, but how about checks -- I
mean, we have a vast government -- checks about
circulating the information within the Government?
GENERAL KATYAL: If it is for a -- if it is
to further the Government purpose for which the
information is collected, it can be distributed to other
folks in the Government. There are restrictions on
that, so -- and they're specified in the Privacy Act,
and they're quite extensive. And to the extent the
Court is concerned that there is something that isn't
robust enough in the Privacy Act, we suggest that would
-- that could wait for an as-applied challenge down the
road when information is disclosed.
And we don't think it will, but if, heaven
forbid, that happens, that's the basis for an as-applied
challenge down the road. But here what they're asking
you to do is invalidate questions and forms that the
Government asks all of its employees and now just wants
to ask contractors.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the
above-titled matter was submitted.)
24:16 37:17 approved 6:22 B bombs 43:4
15:4,24 allowed 36:7 37:9 arguing 41:17 3:18 6:6,16,16 32:3,8,12,23
39:4 45:8 argument 1:13 2:2 10:21 11:7 18:7 34:10 47:17,24
al-Qaeda 44:8,11 armed 27:1 badges 21:4 30:13 57:25
5:5 24:11 ameliorate 19:3 aside 13:25 26:21 balance 27:16 broad 14:9,22 33:4
58:5,13,16 29:1,2 30:14,16 40:22 41:24,24 Banks 55:11 24:23 38:16 55:5
12:4 16:24 17:7 25:15 32:17 34:16 48:11 55:1 business 3:12 12:13
answers 21:1 40:7 aspect 13:13 48:3 33:16,22 34:1,2,8 C 2:1 3:1
46:12 appeal 21:15 51:7,8 assuming 24:9 24:3 call 44:1,2,3
1:15 25:25 58:17,20 2:7,10 3:8 27:20 44:6,16
26:20 35:2 application 23:19 authorities 28:6 Betty 38:18 51:24 care 14:5 36:21,21
39:14 applied 30:9 authority 45:6 beyond 14:17 49:22
10:17 55:22 59:1 57:11 46:20 51:22 courts 6:20 15:11
29:13,14 chose 42:20 comes 16:18 31:19 contexts 9:7 18:23
30:12,13,14 chronic 19:10 coming 8:10 27:2 contours 10:2 cover 9:2
32:4 33:1 cigarettes 13:10 Committee 29:14 Contraception covers 51:16
39:3 43:8
7:2,6,19 8:5 compel 55:4 contractor 20:24 credential 20:24
30:1 35:7 26:3,6 30:10 54:2 compelling 30:15 41:13,18 credentialing 22:6
55:3,18 56:18,19 compile 37:20 contractors 3:14 22:18
cited 30:13 29:9,15,16 51:7 54:20 curious 49:23
15:13 39:16 citizens 27:25 45:7 concerned 58:15 15:8,23,24 19:13 D
civil 3:13 concerning 46:14 20:15 21:9 22:22 D 3:1
25:19,25 civilians 53:5 concurrence 26:15 52:5 27:19
40:20 57:1,2 claim 30:21 concurring 26:24 counsel 54:11 danger 23:18
58:17,21 claims 42:9 condition 48:13 counseling 5:15 date 33:9 34:7
clearance 57:13 13:4 14:20 25:25 counsellor 52:21 debate 18:15 27:4
clerk 37:14 55:25 confronted 13:3 country 34:19 34:11,22 40:19
Clinic 38:18 51:24 considered 23:1 court 1:1,13 3:10 9:22 14:21 23:7
6:6,16 24:18 collect 10:11,16 28:10,19,21 29:21 8:20,22 9:8,14,21
57:18,19 30:21 32:1 42:4 9:25 10:5 11:25 55:15
12:8,22
58:11 3:20 5:3 8:14,18 14:20 18:14,15,16 defined 33:5,12
14:3 16:6 collecting 13:21 8:23 9:2,19 11:8 18:21 22:3,17
17:4,9
19:20 20:11 6:1 12:21 13:18 24:12 25:3 33:5 27:22 30:14,16 definition 40:10
27:17,21 14:23 24:22 49:24 35:6 47:8 49:25 42:20,20,21
34:6 collections 4:22 contention 5:14 52:13 54:6,7 democratically
41:2 42:25 colloquy 24:3 context 10:17 55:24 56:23 57:5 49:25
45:22 46:2 come 20:12 21:23 12:16 13:2,7 14:4 57:16 58:15 denial 21:13 26:15
53:24 54:11 22:8 31:17 44:3,6 14:8 43:7,11 courthouse 26:17 denied 20:8,9 21:11
distributed 58:11 38:21,22 41:19 ensures 56:12 17:14 24:21 27:24
51:10 doctor 18:16 employees 3:13,21 13:12 34:13 46:3,4
14:14 38:7 19:7 22:16 25:8 envisioned 15:10 feel 28:17 49:8
drink 17:2 43:8,10,11,21,23 essentially 6:18 figure 23:10 32:23
dropped 19:8 42:12,24 45:4,9 example 18:3 25:19 financial 47:12
drug 7:7 8:2 17:21 47:1,14 48:7,10 excised 22:23 43:2 49:1,22
drugs 6:23 16:10 26:12 46:15 47:3 24:23 finish 23:13
25:1 38:21 50:21 employer's 14:9 10:2 first 3:4,18 17:5
56:1 due 29:5,7,11 30:24 employment 3:22 expand 16:24 27:1 29:1 39:16
12:14 17:25 E 36:11,13,19 37:23 explaining 26:16 flowed 30:1
58:6 E 2:1 3:1,1 37:23 41:12,15 explanation 20:6 flows 52:18
22:15 33:21 54:16 48:24 50:10 53:19 58:14 folks 58:12
58:2 easy 51:14 employment-rela... 29:14 30:2 58:14 follow-up 53:1
15:22 16:4 educational 46:24 employment/pro... F force 5:23
49:19 51:5 either 10:2 12:16 13:2 face 50:16 forcing 55:23
elaborating 34:12 employs 13:1 facilities 27:11 Ford 38:18 51:24
emergency 51:19 enacted 50:1 42:10 43:17 22:21,22,23,25
53:5 enjoin 48:2 fall 28:12 40:24 41:4,13
11:14 16:12,16,23 18:7 51:13 52:9,10 family 35:9 45:1 46:11 47:2
57:9 56:25 57:7,22 14:12,25 15:3,6 happened 20:7 34:18 57:3,8
18:19,23 56:12 23:8,21 25:23 harder 33:25 implicate 39:16
34:17 42:15 generated 42:13 27:24,24 28:14,16 health 14:5 implication 36:17
58:22 genetic 4:10 28:18 31:20,23 hear 3:3 45:11 implicit 52:6,9,12
25:2 54:19 23:2 26:1,9 35:22 44:25 45:1,3,6 herd 15:11 included 33:15
25:13 35:10 54:15,21,24 56:17 58:23 history 9:21 35:7 21:21 23:19 26:13
3:7,9 4:2,4,8 Glucksberg 12:18 gradating 14:17 HSPD-12 54:8 13:22 15:7 16:8,9
5:1,6,11 go 19:23 23:13 grandfathered huge 57:14 17:20 20:4,4
6:10,17 7:1,7 27:24,24 28:17 38:11 hundred 20:21 24:12,22 25:5,7
8:9 31:23 35:13,14 grandparented hurt 19:16 27:4 29:17 31:4,7
9:3,6,20 10:4 43:25 45:14 51:23 38:11 hypothetical 12:4 31:11,11,14,16,21
11:2,5 goes 23:8 38:3 47:6 greater 35:12 25:20 32:9,20 33:5,8,18
12:15 47:14 53:6 grown 29:25 hypotheticals 14:1 33:18,25 34:16,17
13:16 14:2 going 3:21 14:5 GS 40:7 15:14 35:15,17,25 36:12
15:4,8,13 19:23 37:1 40:4 GS-4 37:14 38:5 39:6,12,17
16:15 49:1 52:8 53:12 guards 27:1 I 39:19 40:9 41:9
18:2,12 good 9:8 14:11,14 guess 14:7 19:10 idea 10:2 22:21 42:1 43:6 44:24
20:1,14,17 16:11,15,19 17:2 26:15 30:23,24 34:24 45:2 46:12 48:14
21:2,9,24 18:11 41:12 49:2 34:17 52:20 identified 20:20 48:23 49:20 52:16
23:2,12 goodness 42:3 35:11 52:19 53:4 54:1
24:5,20 governed 57:23 H identify 19:7,9 54:20 55:5,6 56:5
26:8,22 government 3:12 habits 14:18 illegal 17:6 19:4,19 57:18,20,22 58:3
46:3,4 4:1,17 6:1,5,15 handle 42:2 illustrates 54:18 58:8,11,18
48:20,24 7:18 8:16 10:11 handled 12:6 53:1 ill-defined 7:23 informational 3:15
55:1 10:15,19 12:12,13 53:3 imagine 8:3,10 8:15 10:6 14:23
56:7,11,21 12:24 13:8,21 happen 21:16,17 24:20 25:18 34:13 24:10 29:25
7:2,17 33:19 35:11 57:21 38:25 39:7,18,24 keeps 43:3 leaving 28:23
53:25 issues 28:1,2,2 40:3,17,18 41:2 Kennedy 7:21,24 left 25:7 28:20
41:7 47:15 48:10 42:25 43:14,19 11:17,22 12:3 legend 36:9
56:1 49:8 50:19 47:10,17,24 48:5 kids 35:20 legislatures 49:22
37:16 41:4 27:4,9,15,15 53:5 51:2,12,25 52:3,8 48:8 34:4 39:13 55:6,8
52:14 judge 23:11,14 53:24 54:11,15,21 Kleinfeld 23:14 level 30:5
30:10,15 54:24 55:1 Justices's 55:22 18:24 19:21,21,24 32:8,9,9
55:7,8 Justice 1:17 3:3,10 justifiable 41:25 21:7 22:22 23:18 license 31:17,23
6:21 7:4,9,13,16 55:24 36:1,25 38:4,17 30:23
11:4,6,16,17,22 54:13 43:18 44:8,11,22 limited 17:14 51:9
14:13,16 15:1,5,9 4:13,21 5:1,6,11 knowing 33:17 13:17 14:20 15:2
21:22,25 22:2,8 12:25 13:16 14:2 Laughter 16:20 40:12
27:17,21 28:4,13 19:13 20:1,14,17 law 23:15 29:5,7 living 28:16
53:19 32:12,19,22,22 25:18 26:8,22 lawn 39:10,22 12:14 17:20 25:10
45:15,18 52:15,17 3:7 54:13 obtain 31:20 P 3:1
52:25 55:8,17,20 need 4:14 8:20 occasions 19:8 21:12 24:7 45:19
43:1,21 micromanage 6:20 41:25 42:23 50:2 oh 16:12 part 3:22 21:10,10
missed 51:17 nice 28:13,15 31:7 patients 18:19
morning 3:4 nondisclosure opinion 18:22 percent 43:10
26:21 N nonsensitive 41:17 OPM 22:15 permanent 6:14
44:14 46:6 names 18:18 non-employment... 51:6 permit 56:14
narcotics 18:18 36:8 47:15 oral 1:12 2:2,5 3:7 person 21:19 29:3
48:20,25 18:5 23:6 24:6 no-risk 42:22 43:11 53:16,17 35:17,25 37:1,21
54:16 43:23 order 49:23 51:15 38:25 39:7 41:19
13:25 16:23 narrowly 9:15,17 26:14,23 33:10 55:14 56:13 56:15
19:21 26:10 30:11 34:4 55:7 34:13,16 ordered 28:24 29:9 personally 32:14
29:4,20 NASA 19:14 21:20 numbers 33:17 Oregon 55:23 Personnel 17:19
43:4 48:16 22:2,4,5,17 27:10 numerous 19:8 Ortega 14:14 22:11
50:1 52:9 44:23 53:5,6 outer 5:25 persons 47:1
58:7 national 1:3 3:4 O overarching 39:6 person's 46:13
nation's 27:6 object 48:18 O'Connor 14:13 pertinent 40:21
3:8 54:14 precluded 3:16 Protected 31:14 40:14,20 41:21,24 57:18
predisposed 4:11 protection 15:10 42:5 45:7,12,13 recognized 5:3
49:3 preparation 19:14 provision 28:4,8,10 quite 5:9,21 22:14 51:18 52:15,17
37:8 54:4 10:6 11:3 15:19 putting 13:25 16:7 radiate 6:4 regardless 56:10
15:25 24:10,13 raise 37:22 56:23 regime 51:3
46:1,9 57:24 58:5 7:5,7,8,10,18 8:21 rational 33:16,22 rejected 18:14 21:7
10:15,15 21:20 23:22 27:25 19:12 23:23 24:15 12:10 17:14 release 45:20 46:21
12:9 32:6 36:19 42:24 24:16 25:1,12,15 reaches 19:11 46:22 48:14 49:14
23:20 36:20 45:7,8,12,14,23 26:21 28:20 32:14 reaching 9:18 49:15 51:18,20,23
40:12,16 46:15,18,22 47:1 33:4,21 34:23,25 read 13:11 51:22 52:1
47:3,14 49:10,16 35:22,23 36:1,4 57:10 released 57:21,23
41:5,17 problem 14:24 39:20,21 40:5,18 real 25:21 releases 51:15
50:18 40:20,23 41:23 realize 14:24 relevant 14:4 36:2
proceed 9:1 48:1,17,19 49:4,6 27:23 51:2 religion 35:20
35:1 17:20 20:1,22 51:16,16,22 52:18 18:6 21:8,13 relying 28:5,11
57:14,16 29:7,11 30:24 56:13,16,23 57:6 reasonable 14:15 remark 36:17
25:20 processes 12:7 questions 3:16 4:1 7:25 23:4 55:9 removed 42:11
procreation 35:8 5:16,19,24 6:15 56:14 repaired 27:13
property 30:23 26:5,6,7,8,11 54:13 represent 22:17
protect 30:21 35:14 37:14,22 recognize 14:22 47:3
51:7,8,10 53:2 58:5 SF 40:24 45:19 57:8
rights 13:23 24:24 9:4,16,20 11:16 20:22 21:5 45:19 4:3,7,9,15,24 5:23
37:13 road 44:23 57:10 15:5,9,14 25:21 SF-85P 8:12 45:3 21:6,18,22,25
13:24 14:3 16:6 school 33:11 show 16:13 33:25 55:16 56:3,8
54:2 42:25 44:18 45:22 35:12 38:9 39:15,24 43:16 so-called 5:19
54:11 59:1 secrets 27:6 sign 17:23 39:9,22 space 1:3 3:5 27:13
22:22 27:20 58:16 sectors 36:5,7 similar 45:12,13 special 9:9
36:5,6 see 9:1 20:6 26:1 situation 56:6 sphere 36:19
8:14,18 5:5 10:7 11:11,13 sense 44:20 societal 39:6 55:17,18,21
9:2,19 12:6 24:11 sensitive 27:4,5 sold 50:21 standardize 45:4
11:8 salacious 22:14 28:1 30:18 36:20 solicitation 54:1 Starbucks 23:16
12:2,9 saying 4:24 16:5 37:1,9 40:9 44:24 Solicitor 1:16 start 4:16 25:10
23:25 24:1,19,24 sent 20:3 somebody 4:9 state 30:10,15
14:2,4,8,9 25:10 28:17 30:20 series 53:7 20:19 52:8,25 31:15,15,20 34:4
24:10,13,15 34:23 35:19 38:10 serious 14:24 16:13 somewhat 7:23 45:25 49:19 50:1
29:10,17 41:18 44:19,19 37:22 sorry 10:24 20:18 50:12,16,22 55:6
31:2,6,10 46:15 55:17 service 3:13 23:12 44:10 stated 50:4
33:5 38:2 says 13:8 16:18 set 25:16 sort 8:22 13:6 statements 26:15
42:3,6 46:1 17:11 29:3 31:23 sexual 13:12,22 19:16 24:10 37:19 26:19
47:10 48:5,6 32:8 39:10,22 24:17,23 25:20 48:1 States 1:1,13 46:8
50:6 supposed 17:10 32:16 37:21 47:24 20:10 22:23 23:6 universe 5:16 26:2
28:4 survey 19:14 9:23 10:4 11:15 trying 5:22 32:23 24:10 55:5,14
29:4,8 suspicious 16:22 12:5,22,25 14:7 Tuesday 1:10 57:6,7
30:8 sustain 7:17 14:10,19 15:14 turn 45:15,15,18 user 20:20
sustained 7:16 16:4 17:16,22,24 turns 49:24 uses 55:13
system 34:21,25 18:4,5,6,13 20:8 twenty-eight 20:22
34:3 35:4 21:3,12 22:10 twice 42:11 V
35:6,13 36:6 23:3,11,14 24:25 two 3:17 4:8 15:16 v 1:6 3:5 14:14
37:3,7 38:3 T 25:21 26:6,23,24 36:15 55:22
39:2,14 T 2:1,1 27:7 28:13,15 type 18:13,13 33:18 vague 17:17 29:16
41:1,5,22 table 28:6 30:9 32:22 34:3 33:24 35:15 37:16 various 6:19 22:13
43:7,17 tailor 41:3 44:21 34:14 39:9 40:1,2 38:8 58:3 30:1
44:10,13 tailored 30:11 34:4 41:23 42:17 48:17 types 16:3 35:14 vast 58:7
55:7 54:17 55:20 56:3 40:8 49:6 view 30:19 34:22
47:5 take 5:18 45:5 56:5,7,11,25 47:17 48:3
48:4,10 49:22 50:9,12 57:16 58:19 U violate 24:12,15
49:5,13,18 taken 53:17 thinks 43:3 ultimately 20:3 32:1
51:1,4,19 takes 20:2 third 47:1 39:3 violated 8:24 10:1
53:3,10 talk 29:16 thought 6:21 16:11 unanimous 9:22 12:3 30:22 50:11
54:4 talked 12:18 23:5 19:5 24:3 26:4 unburdened 25:3 50:15
37:15 16:24 35:16 37:4 55:11,24 26:24 vitiates 3:20
38:22 41:11 34:2 top 36:10 52:23 53:25 wage 28:16
36:11,12 54:10,11 58:25 transparent 44:15 understandings 13:9,9,10,11
59:1 treatment 5:15 9:12 18:16 31:23,24
39:7 21:17 28:14,15 19:3,7,8,15,24 United 1:1,13 48:7 56:10
35:24 58:23
17:4,10,18 Y 553,000 16:2
35:19 44:25 yeah 44:4
year 6:24 16:10 6
38:6,12 7
41:14 7 26:5 46:11 47:2
48:1,17
1:5 3:4 7,500 43:9
18:4
46:2 55:19 1 70,000 41:7
10:5,5,17 10:05 1:14 3:2 8
18:14,15 11:03 59:3 8 26:5 51:16
29:13 30:2,6 128 20:8,12,19 41:7 85 5:13 6:22 8:6
57:17 18a 55:3 22:22,24 26:3
31:3
34:11
20 38:6,12,21
41:19 44:23 2010 1:10
47:22 48:8 22 53:4,18,20,21
3
24:14 32:14
44:14 53:11 4
