IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MICHAEL GARY BARBER, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 09-5201
v. :
J. E. THOMAS, WARDEN. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 30, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
STEPHEN R. SADY, ESQ., Chief Deputy Federal Public
Defender, Portland, Oregon; on behalf of
Petitioners.
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
STEPHEN R. SADY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
STEPHEN R. SADY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in case 09-5201, Barber v. Thomas, the
Warden.
Mr. Sady.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN R. SADY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SADY: Mr. -- Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The phrase "term of imprisonment" appears
three times in the first sentence of the Federal good
time statute. The first two times the parties are in
agreement. "Term of imprisonment" means "sentence
imposed." The third use, which sets the rate for good
time credit, also means the "sentence imposed" when it's
used in the phrase "up to 54 days of good time credit
towards the service of the sentence."
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it doesn't always mean
that. I think you say somewhere in your brief that it
always means that. It surely does not always mean that.
Because in -- what is it, 3624 -- wait a minute, now.
3624(d) says that, "Upon the release of a prisoner on
the expiration of his term of imprisonment, the Bureau
of Prisons shall give him clothes, money and
transportation."
Now there the expiration of his term of
imprisonment does not mean the -- the assigned term of
imprisonment. It means the assigned term of
imprisonment less all the good time credits he has had.
MR. SADY: Exactly.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Unless you think they are
supposed to give him his clothes, you know, several
months after he leaves.
MR. SADY: Your Honor, that is a perfect use
of "term of imprisonment" to mean actual time and any
good time credits earned.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. SADY: And it uses the term "release."
"Release" is defined in 3624(a), which says that you are
released when you have your actual time served and any
good time.
The flaw in the Bureau of Prisons system is
that they do not give credit towards the term of
imprisonment as this statute in 3624(b) dictates.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not addressing that.
All I'm -- look, it -- the text says "upon the release
of a prisoner on the expiration of his term of
imprisonment." My only point is that that -- you have
to acknowledge that that is a use of the phrase "term of
imprisonment" that does not mean the sentence he was
given, but rather means the sentence that he served.
MR. SADY: I respectfully disagree because
it expires. A term of imprisonment, a ten-year
sentence, expires. When you have 311 days 10 times,
that means it has expired, because you also are giving
those 54 days of good time credits 10 times.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right.
JUSTICE ALITO: But why isn't the term of
imprisonment most reasonably understood to mean the term
that is imposed viewed at the time when it is imposed?
So that if someone is sentenced to a term of 360 days, 5
years, and begins serving his sentence on January 1st,
year 1 of the term imposed ends on December 31st of that
year; year 2 of the term imposed begins on January 1st
of the following year, and so forth.
MR. SADY: Justice Alito, that would be the
end of the time served for 1 year, but for the term of
imprisonment, because if we assume at the end of the
365 days that person has earned maximum good time
credit -
JUSTICE ALITO: Right.
MR. SADY: That he should receive credit
towards the service of the sentence. That means on the
365th day he should move back on the calendar a
adjustment for good time and a reset for the next year.
That way, if you have a ten-year sentence, you have ten
opportunities to -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, hang on. I understand
what you are arguing, but I don't understand why the
term of imprisonment changes. We look at the -- we look
at the term of the imprisonment on the day when it is
imposed and the day when the defendant begins serving
the sentence, and you can say: Year one ends at the end
of 2010; year two ends at the end of 2011.
Why do you think that the term -- the phrase
"term of imprisonment" has to change as -- the
understanding of the "term of imprisonment" has to
change as the prisoner progresses in serving the
sentence? I totally fail to understand that.
MR. SADY: It doesn't change. It's still -
the two components of a term of imprisonment are actual
time and good time credits. So the way we are
presenting it is the first year of the term of
imprisonment is the 311 days of actual service and the
54 days -
JUSTICE ALITO: But you don't know whether
that -- you don't know whether that prisoner is going to
be eligible for the 54 days until the 365 days are over.
MR. SADY: That's fine. We -- if the Bureau
of Prisons determines that the person should receive up
to 54 days at day 365, then they receive credit towards
the service of their sentence. That means moving it
back 54 days because they didn't have to serve those
days. And then you reset -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I'm not sure where you
get that -- I'm not sure where you get that out of the
statute. But I still don't think you have answered my
question. I don't want to belabor it too much.
On the day when the prisoner in my
hypothetical begins serving his sentence, if you said,
When will your first year of imprisonment -- first year
of your term of imprisonment end? You would say
December 31st, 2010. When will the second year of the
term of imprisonment end? December 31st, 2011. That's
what you would have to say at that point, because you
don't know whether the prisoner will earn any good time
credits. So why do you think that the meaning of the
year of the term of imprisonment changes as the sentence
goes on?
MR. SADY: I do -- do not think it changes.
I think that it is adjusted for good time, which is
exactly what Congress intended. They said that every
day, you get credit beyond time served. They use the
phrase "beyond time served" for credit towards the
service -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm -- perhaps
I can, if you will permit me, rephrase Justice Alito's
question in sort of the more simplistic way I looked at
it.
Why is it that we have to do the calculation
that you're talking about, which is start at 311 days
and take back days, which makes no sense to me, or their
very complicated ten-page number?
Why can't they just take 54 days at the end
of every year that there is actual service, and that the
time served, plus whatever number of days have been
earned, you subtract it from the term of imprisonment?
So if he was imprisoned for 10 years, he got 540 days
for whatever it is. At the end of the 9th year, he made
up whatever -- you added up 9 times 54, and you took it
away from 10. He serves 9 and that. That would make
sense of "beyond the time served" language that's in
this provision.
MR. SADY: Justice Sotomayor, we are not
asking -- 311 doesn't have to be the magic day of when
they determine whether they should receive it. We are
saying, go ahead, assume exactly what they are doing
now. Go up to 365 days.
But they do make a determination. At that
point of making the determination, that's when they go
back to 54 days and have to reset. That way on a
10-year sentence you have 10 blocks that Congress
intended to give prisoners to be able to earn 54 days in
each of those blocks.
Now, the way that we were hearing it posited
from Justice Alito, if we have the 54 days on top of
time served without any adjustment, then we end up with
a 419-year first day -- first year, and you can only fit
8 opportunities to earn the 54 days.
JUSTICE ALITO: No, not at all. No. At the
end of -- at the end of 2010, in my hypothetical, you
would take the 54 days off the end, just as Justice
Sotomayor suggested.
MR. SADY: And the -
JUSTICE ALITO: And -- but it doesn't mean
that the service doesn't -- your -- your argument is
predicated on the idea that service of year two begins
on the 311th day.
MR. SADY: If there is an adjustment for
good time, because "term of imprisonment" is a term of
art that doesn't mean time served only. It can mean -
JUSTICE ALITO: But I don't understand that.
I will not belabor it. I don't understand why the
parties have spent so much time sparring over that
issue, which seems to me to be totally unnecessary and
irrelevant.
MR. SADY: Justice Alito, if I could refer
you to 3621(a), 3624(a), and 3624(b), each of those
refers -- when they are talking about a term of
imprisonment, each refers to it as "less good time."
And -- and unless you do that, the reason -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, do you do it if
you take (a), and (a) says: A prisoner shall be
released by the Bureau of Prisons on the date of the
expiration of the prisoner's term of imprisonment -- 10
years, we are assuming, an imprisonment -- less any time
credited towards the service of the prisoner's sentence,
as provided in subsection (b).
MR. SADY: Exactly.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So each year that he
served, you add up the number of days he has served, the
good time credit, and you subtract them from the
120 months that you have given him, and you figure out
when he's going to get out. You work backwards, not
forward, the way everyone seems to be doing.
MR. SADY: If you do that, you only end up
with eight opportunities to -- to have 54 days. That's
why it's the difference between -- I think anybody
reading -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's the way the
language is written. So I mean you may want the greater
opportunity, but it says by its explicit phrase: Terms:
At the date of the prisoner's -- expiration of the
prisoner's term of imprisonment, take that day and
subtract from it time credited towards the service of
the prisoner's sentence.
MR. SADY: We are going to -- the rate
phrase is: Up to 54 days at the end of each year of the
term of imprisonment.
If there is a 10-year term of imprisonment,
that means there's 10 opportunities to earn 54 days.
The Bureau of Prisons' math ends up with 470 days,
70 days less. And the reason for that is that they do
not interpret "term of imprisonment" to encompass the
possibility of good time.
That is the only -- because you should have
10 blocks of 365 days. Each of those blocks, you may be
able to get 54 days. Then it's 311. But maybe you
didn't earn any time. Then it would be a 365-block.
But the -- actually, the very good idea that Congress
had was that you had an incentive at every stage of your
term of imprisonment for good behavior.
Even if you were misbehaving early in your
prison term, at the end you still have the opportunity
to earn 54 days against that last 365 days. It counts
for every word in the statute. It gives every statute
meaning. And it doesn't put us in the position of
giving two -- two phrases the exact same meaning in the
same sentence.
This Court has never found that phrases -
two phrases, uses of "term of imprisonment" in the same
sentence, mean different things.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What do you do with -
if -- it's a very short sentence? A year and a day, in
your view, is a year and a day less 54.
MR. SADY: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But 360 days, what do you
do with that?
MR. SADY: With 360 -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. If -- suppose it's
for -- just -- the whole sentence is 360 days.
MR. SADY: If it says 366 days, so that the
year -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, 360. In other words,
short of a year.
MR. SADY: Then it -- a 360-day sentence
would not be eligible, because we -- the parties are
agreed that "term of imprisonment" means a sentence of
more than a year. So it has to be more than 365 days.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So the person that gets a
year and a day serves less than the person that gets
less than a year?
MR. SADY: That is correct. And district
courts frequently address that problem. When you have a
relatively short sentence, you say: Judge, could you
give us -- instead of an 11-month sentence, could you
give us a year and a day sentence, so that you could
earn the good time on that?
JUSTICE SCALIA: How can you earn the good
time? I mean you only earn the good time if -- if you
are a good prisoner for a year.
MR. SADY: That gets us to the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you are going to let him
out 54 days before the year, even though he hasn't
earned the good time in the year?
MR. SADY: He has.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What did he do? How has
he?
MR. SADY: He has because of the last
sentence in 3624(b) that says that for the last year or
portion of the year, that you go ahead and establish the
two-step process. First, you figure out the projected
release date, which is a release date with maximum good
time. Then you make the decision about whether the
prisoner should receive that within six weeks of that -
of that projected release date.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but that still
couldn't give him the full 54 days, because there's only
42 days in six weeks.
MR. SADY: That's only a measure when you
make the determination. They -- they were recognizing
that for the last period of time, or for a year and a
day sentence, that you are not going to be able to do
the time all the time, but you will, so that's why there
is a special mechanism at the end.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But I'm saying the special
mechanism can't give the full 54 days.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Because they don't make it
until 42 days before the end of the sentence.
MR. SADY: They make it until 311 days at
the end of the sentence, because what they do is they
make the -- they figure out what the maximum good time
would be, which would be 312 days on a 300 and -- on a
year and a day sentence, and they make that
determination earlier.
They say, okay, you have been good for that
period of time. We recognize that this is going to be a
problem, the same problem you would have on a sentence
of 10 years and 6 months, where you have to prorate the
credit, 27 days instead of 54, half, and then figure out
the projected release date with 180 days, subtract the
27 days, and then make the determination sometime within
the 6 weeks up to that last point.
So that there is a mechanism for
understanding that it is -- that in the last year there
is going -- going to be an assumption that if you are
behaving all the way up to -- in the full sentence -
day 311, you should get the full 54 days.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sure there is
something wrong with this predicate to this question,
but the -- the statute allows the Bureau to make a
determination of good time credit within 15 days after
the end of each year of the sentence.
MR. SADY: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They cannot make
that determination within 15 days of the 311 days. And
so "each year of the sentence" must mean each -- the
full year, the 365 days.
MR. SADY: Our position is that the Bureau
of Prisons can make its determination as it pleases.
We -- we are asking the Court to do -- to construe a
statute, not write a policy statement. So we understand
that there are going to be some mechanics of it. But
the mechanics in this work very easily with the
assurance that they are receiving good time credit
against the period of the sentence imposed by the judge.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You treat each year
of the sentence as the 311 days if there has been good
behavior, no?
MR. SADY: Not necessarily. We are --
I'm -- if the Bureau of Prisons wants to make that
determination at day 365, that's fine, as long as they
adjust by doing exactly what the statute says: Credit
towards the service of the sentence, move it back 40 -
54 days, and then reset. If you do that, you have 10
blocks of 365 days.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why do you do have to
do that? I mean you read it. It so complicated. Just
reading this, I -- I think the language should say this:
10 years, he's got a 10-year sentence. At the end of
the first year you write the number 54 on a piece of
paper if he has done well.
Suppose he comes in on January 1, okay? So
January 2, after the first year, you write the word
50 -- the number 54. And you do that each year. And by
the time you get to the year 8, what you have done is
you have got 432 days.
So then you subtract the 430 days from 10
years, and what you get is you are 67 days short of 9
years. So now you look at the last sentence, and what
you do is you take 67 days, subtract that from 365, and
you've got 298, and you simply prorate for those 298.
And you subtract that, too, so he gets another 10 days
or so, or 15 days credit, and that's it.
And that's following the statute, it seems
to me, absolutely literally. And it also seems to me to
make sense, because you don't want to give him credit
for time he never serves.
MR. SADY: Justice Breyer, I think it
doesn't make sense, because what it does is it creates
an 87.2 minimum sentence that is served, and we note
that the sentencing table upon which every Federal
sentence is predicated is based on 85 percent. That
being -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, that isn't what the -
if you want to know what the sentencing commission did,
I think the best evidence of that is you read the
introduction to the guidelines. And what the
introduction to the guidelines says is that, roughly
speaking, many of the sentences approximate the time
actually served before.
Now, what to me that suggests is that the
sentencing commission never considered this question.
And if there's something more specific than that, that
shows they did, I would like to know what it is, because
I don't trust memory.
MR. SADY: Your Honor, we are relying very
heavily on the supplemental report at -- at page 140 of
the joint appendix that says we -- we divide it by .85
in order to calibrate the sentencing table to include
good time. That means that every sentence has been
calibrated based on assuming 10 opportunities to earn
54 days, which -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, the government
contends it's none of the sentencing commission's
business. It's up to the Bureau of Prisons. Isn't that
the government's position?
MR. SADY: That is their position. And our
position is that it's -- administering the statute is
the Bureau of Prisons's business, but deciding what the
minimum sentence that can -- minimum time that can be
served to satisfy a term of imprisonment is a policy
decision, and that the policy is properly placed -
JUSTICE BREYER: But there is nothing in
there -- that's not a policy statement; that's not a
guideline. That's a staff conclusion. And the staff
conclusion, I think, is conflicting with what it says in
the -- in the introduction to the guidelines, which is
that all of this was very approximate. I don't see
how -- how -- a court would be bound by that.
MR. SADY: I think that the court could be
advised by it in terms of knowing that we are looking at
a harsher sentence. Everybody is serving more time than
-- the sentence that the judge imposed was -- whether it
was advisory guidelines or mandatory guidelines, the
sentencing table provided the initial baseline.
And that initial baseline was boosted by 2.2
percent, which is not an insignificant amount, and there
is a very simple way for the court to construe the
statute consistently throughout to conform the two, so
that people are not serving 2.2 percent more time in
custody than the sentencing table that every judge uses
in imposing their sentence.
We are institutionalizing a harsher system
in a way that doesn't meet the statutory language,
because the statutory language says "term of
imprisonment."
And if it's term of imprisonment, 10 years
of a term of imprisonment, I think a reasonable plain
meaning is that you have 10 opportunities to earn
54 days.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Sady, you -- you said
something about 15 percent or 85 percent is a more
workable system than -- was it 12.9 percent?
Do we have any information on, (A), the
number of Federal prisoners who get good time and in
that universe, the ones who get good time, how many get
the full credit and how many get something less than the
full 54 days?
MR. SADY: Justice Ginsburg, there are
approximately 200,000 prisoners, and of those about
195,000 of them are eligible for good time credits.
My anecdotal experience is that most
prisoners get most of the -- the good time credits, so
it's not at all unusual for prisoners to achieve most of
that. There is some that have minor amounts, and there
is a relatively smaller number, at least in my
experience, who do not get a lot of it.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is this right? I'm -- I'm
sorry to ask you this question, but I get lost in the
math of this sometimes.
Do you remember my example I just gave, you
know, with the 9 years you go and put it on a piece of
paper?
MR. SADY: Yes, the 419 -
JUSTICE BREYER: I take it what you want is
you, in -- in essence, want him to get credit for
54 days for that tenth year?
MR. SADY: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. And the argument
against that, reading the language and so forth, is,
well, look this is an imaginary 10th year. He is not
actually in prison for 10 years. He is going to be
released sometime late in year 8. And so why should we
add 54 days? I mean maybe it would be a nice thing
because sentences are awfully long, but -- but why would
anybody want to add 54 days in respect to a year that's
never going to be served?
MR. SADY: Each year is served in the -- if
you take away the 54 days, if you credit it towards the
service of the sentence and do the adjustment and reset
that we are asking the Court to do so that you have 10
opportunities, then in the last year, you are -- when
you are in -- you go to the last sentence that
acknowledges that you are going to have to make some
arbitrary time that you are going to, say, okay, we are
going to decide that you have done well enough that you
are going to be able to get the full credit for the last
year.
But the flaw in the Bureau of Prisons is by
having the 54 days and actual time and that that's what
happens at the first year, that's a 419-day first year.
You can only squeeze 8 of those in. The prisoners look
at it and they see, plain statute, what was your term of
imprisonment, how many ends of each year of a term of
imprisonment should you have in a 10-year sentence. Ten
years.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the statute says that
it is -- the credit, it can be received, quote, at the
end of each year of the prisoner's term of imprisonment
beginning at the end of the first year of the term.
MR. SADY: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Now, when does -- when is
that point, in your opinion?
MR. SADY: The Bureau of Prisons probably
has discretion in administering. I'm accepting as a
proposition on the day 365 they make that determination.
JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. So the -- day 365 is
the end of the first year of -- of the term of
imprisonment?
MR. SADY: That's -- that's when they are
making the determination. If they make a determination
that he is -- should receive credit, then the end of the
first year becomes day 311, because he has received -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And then what do -
MR. SADY: -- 311.
JUSTICE ALITO: The statute says that
they -- that the prisoner may receive credit at the end
of each year of the prisoner's term of imprisonment
beginning at the end of the first year of the term.
MR. SADY: No.
JUSTICE ALITO: And what I'm asking is, when
is the end of the first year of the term within the
meaning of that language?
MR. SADY: The meaning of that language is
day 3 -
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it day 3 -
MR. SADY: Excuse me.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it day 365, or is it day
311?
MR. SADY: It depends. And the reason it
depends is because the language of the statute says
"credit toward the service of prisoner's sentence beyond
time served," so if you do it beyond time served and you
give him credit towards that sentence -- the Bureau of
Prisons is making a determination. Once we -- they make
their determination, and we respect that determination,
we then have to go -- from the 365th day, back, because
for 54 of those days he doesn't have to be there. He
has earned that time and you can -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So the next year -
MR. SADY: -- adjust and reset at the next
365.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- you start it at 311?
MR. SADY: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And he now serves
another year and you back him up again at the end of
that year? To 300 -
MR. SADY: Yes, that is -- that is certainly
one way of mechanically doing it so that you have 10
blocks of 365 days each as a term of imprisonment.
Because term of -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And you -- and you think
that their system is easier?
MR. SADY: Yes.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That their system is -
MR. SADY: No, absolutely not. Their -
their system makes -- nobody can understand the math.
JUSTICE BREYER: Another way to think, and I
think probably you'll -- if you look through the records
of the commission, they even thought about this problem,
and the -- the -- you will see a lot of talks given by
various people who were there, which say that for this
reason you are bringing up, that it might have been
thought there was no credit for the first year.
In other words, you don't cut the sentence
in the first year. You don't begin cut until the second
year has been served, so he has to serve 365 days. Now
when you point that out, that is not the Bureau of
Prisons's interpretation, that's nobody's
interpretation. They're all going to let him out if
it's a year and a day. They are going to let him out
several weeks before the end of the first year, aren't
they?
MR. SADY: Yes. There was a technical
amendment.
JUSTICE BREYER: Everybody's going to do
that. Oh -- there was a technical amendment.
MR. SADY: To address that first year, to
make sure that they did that.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what happened. In
other words, the statute made before -
MR. SADY: Exactly.
JUSTICE BREYER: Ah, I better get that -
MR. SADY: -- when it was at 36 days. And
it's interesting, so page 56 of the -- of the Senate
report on this, they used the term "adjust for good
time." Now that -- then it was 36 days. But Congress
was using exact same thought as the language here that
says that the time is -- that you give credit towards
the service of a sentence.
And with the Court's permission I will
reserve the remaining time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Wall.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY B. WALL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Justice Breyer, I think you stole my
thunder. I wanted to explain how the bureau does it,
and you laid it out exactly right. If you have -- and I
think just looking at the language of the statute, it
tracks perfectly. If you have a prisoner serving a
10-year sentence and he comes in on January 1st, the end
of his first year of imprisonment is December 31st, and
on that date he gets 54 days taken off the back end of
the sentence. That cycle repeats itself for the next 8
years. And -
JUSTICE BREYER: But the trouble with that,
and I'm glad to know about that technical amendment,
because then -
MR. WALL: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- we never considered it
when I was on the -- nobody thought about it at that
time because the language was different.
But now that you had have got this language
now, it's hard to reconcile with that first year. He is
sentenced for a year and a day, you see. So literally,
it says calculated on January 2 of the next year. But
he's already been in for longer than he should be by
that point. So you really have to calculate it before
the year ends; you have to calculate it at least by
October.
And -- and -- and once you start calculating
it before, the statute literally says, we are into a
more complicated thing than I thought.
MR. WALL: Well, and that's why they have
the sentence at the end, as you pointed out about the
proration. So when the -- when the statute says, what
it says -- starts by saying is, if you are serving a
sentence of longer than a year you are eligible for good
time credit. So you are earning credit as you go
through that first year.
Congress knew then if you had have a year
and a day sentence, you wouldn't be actually serving a
full year because of the credits bringing you below the
year mark. So what it does in the last sentence, it
says if you are in your last year and that's a partial
year, we prorate. So on your 319th day you have earned
47 days of good time credit. Those combined equal a
sentence of a year and a day, and you are out after your
319th day. On the hypothetical -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There is a premise flaw
there. And that premise flaw is that you have told us
that you don't earn the credit until the end of the
year.
MR. WALL: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So your answer about
this probation is not an answer, because it's -- your
premise is not the same.
MR. WALL: That's why for each full year
served, so for a 10-year sentence, you are right that
you are making a determination at the end of the year
for the first 8 years, but when you get to that ninth
year, as Justice Breyer pointed out -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not worried about
sentences that are more than 2 years. I'm worried about
the prisoner who is sentenced to a year and a day. How
does that proration help that individual, since they are
not going to get the good time credit until they've
served a year?
MR. WALL: So, the way this works is that
for the prisoner sentenced to a year and a day or
13 months or 14 months, because they are receiving
credit through that first year, their good time credit
brings them below a year. They'll never serve a full
year.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I -
MR. WALL: And what the law -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what I'm saying
to you. The whole brief says to us, they measure the
entitlement to good time credit at the end of the first
year.
MR. WALL: Except for the last year or
partial year. And what the final sentence of B1 says
is, credit for the last year or portion of a year of the
term of imprisonment shall be prorated and credited
within the last 6 weeks. So for the prisoner who has a
year and a day sentence, his sentence is literally all
proration. He is just serving a partial year.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He is not going to get
54 days? He's going to get -
MR. WALL: That's right. On the 319th day
he has come through about nine tenths of the year, he
has accrued 47 days.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I just want to make
absolutely sure because I hadn't done the math forward;
I did the math backwards.
MR. WALL: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which was the one that
Justice Breyer and Justice Alito set forth -
MR. WALL: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which is 54 days are
earned back for each year, and you take it off the full
term of imprisonment.
The -- you are representing to me that the
math that is in your program statement is accomplishing
that result?
MR. WALL: Absolutely. Which is to say when
the prisoner gets to his last year, if that's a partial
year, he is not going to get the 54 days, he's going to
get some portion of the 54 days, based on what part of a
year he served. And that is prorated and credited
within the last 6 weeks. Now, it's normally done on the
release date. So in that 9th year for the 10-year
prisoner -
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I just interrupt with
one question? If he got a total of 540 or whatever it
is, he should never enter the 9th year because he would
finish the 10-year sentence in less than 8 years.
MR. WALL: Well -
JUSTICE STEVENS: Or less than 9 years,
rather.
MR. WALL: That's -- that's right. 540
wouldn't be quite 2 years, but setting that to the
side -
JUSTICE STEVENS: So how does he -- how does
he get his 10th block of good time? How does he ever
get it under your -
MR. WALL: Well, under the government's view
he can only earn good time credit when he is actually
incarcerated. And what Petitioners are coming in and
saying -
JUSTICE STEVENS: Right. I understand. But
explain to me how -- how he can get more than a year of
good time credit before the 10th year begins?
MR. WALL: Well, so, if you take a 10-year
prisoner -- a prisoner with a 10-year sentence, the way
it currently works, at the end of the 8th year he has
accrued 432 days of good time credit.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Which is more than a year.
MR. WALL: Right. So he knocked off his
full 10th year and he's knocked off a part of his 9th
year. Now we are at that final 9th year, which is a
prorated year. He has got 298 days left and by the
260th day he earned 38 days of credit. So he is
released after the 260th day of his 9th year.
And as Justice Breyer pointed out, that
precisely tracks the language of the statute. You do it
at the end of each full year until you get to the last
partial year, and then you prorate and you do it in the
last 6 weeks.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And each of those 4 years
included 54 days of credit?
MR. WALL: That's right. So the -- the
Petitioners here, Petitioner Barber, for instance, has
been incarcerated for over 17 years. At the end of each
of his 17 years in prison, he has gotten 54 days of
credit. What Petitioner Barber is here saying is, I am
going to get 3 whole years knocked off the end of my
sentence; I want the 54 days for those years, too.
I want 54 days for every year of my sentence
as imposed by the court, not as served by me behind
bars, and that's what doesn't track the language of the
statute. Because the only way you can do that, as
Justice Alito pointed out, is to read "year" to mean
311 days, and it is no answer to say, as Petitioners do,
well, you can do the determination whenever. What they
are saying is at the end of a 311-day period, you should
determine whether the prisoner gets the credit.
But what the statute says is the
determination itself has to occur at the end of the
year. So you can't fold the 54 days into the year
because you haven't made the determination yet.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I didn't understand
them to be saying that. I understood them to be saying
that the determination could be made at the end of
365 days, but if it's determined that the prisoner is
entitled to 54 days of credit, then year 1 should be
regarded as having begun on the 312th day, rather than
the 366th day.
MR. WALL: I think that's right, which first
it is inconsistent with the language of the statute,
which says at the end of each year, so that reads "year"
to be an 311-day cycle. But it also sets up a very odd
system. What happens if the prisoner misbehaves during
days 312 and day 365?
On Petitioner's approach, it seems to me,
the new year has started on day 312. Now, but take the
example, he says, well, you can do it on the 365th day.
Well, if the prisoner's misbehaved on day 340, is that
coming out of the first year or out of the second year.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I think that they
would say you won't know when the second year has begun
until the full calendar year has been completed.
MR. WALL: And I guess the -- the difficulty
with that approach is that it seems to me that once the
311-day cycle is finished, you have to start a new
311-day cycle on day 312.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, they are just not
vested until the year has -- the full year has passed.
MR. WALL: Well, so vesting is a little bit
unique, Justice Kennedy, under the statute, because none
of the time vests under (b)(2) until they are actually
released. But -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I -- I use it just
in the calculating sense.
MR. WALL: I see -- I see what you're
saying. They could do the bookkeeping determination on
day 365. But I don't think that's what's important.
What is important is that on Petitioner's view, the
second year, for credit purposes, has to start on day
312. You have to have 10 blocks of 311 days and you
have to be measuring after every 311th day.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, you don't
measure -- I don't think that -- you -- you begin
measuring on 311, but you measure 365 days from -- from
311. And if he has behaved well during all -- all of
those 365 days, then you knock off another 51 days or
whatever it is. And you begin the third year from then,
but you give him another 365 days to determine whether
he has behaved well.
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, if you are
measuring 365 days from day 311 -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. WALL: -- then you should equally be
measuring 365 days from day 1. Which is to say, if
you're doing -
JUSTICE SCALIA: He did. He did. You
didn't give him the credit until he served the whole
365 days. At that point, he gets the credit and you
count the second year as though it begins on day 311.
MR. WALL: Well, the -- I was half with you
there.
The bureau does do it by looking at what
they do during the full year, from January 1 to
December 31, and then it determines whether you get
54 days knocked off the end of your sentence. What
happens between day 311 and day 365 is not different
than what happens during the rest of the year.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly.
MR. WALL: What the -- what the statute asks
the bureau to determine is, at the end of each year,
has, during that year, the prisoner demonstrated
exemplary compliance with institutional regulations? So
the prisoner has got to go a full year, a full 365 days,
and be well-behaved. Then he gets 54 days taken off the
back end of the sentence. And if that's the way that
you're saying it should work, that is precisely how the
bureau interprets the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except that they're not
taking it off from the back end. They are taking it off
from the next year. So that in the second year, if he
-- if he behaves well for 365 days from 311 -- okay? He
behaves well for the next 365 days. The next year will
begin at 622.
But then he has to serve another 365 days
before he gets good time credit. And then the next year
will begin three times 311: 933. And so forth.
MR. WALL: Justice Alito, I think that sets
up an odd system.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that right? See, he
agrees with me.
(Laughter.)
No, I'm not saying that's right. I'm saying
that that's -- that is what he is proposing.
MR. WALL: No, I -- I agree. That is the
difference. Petitioners think that you measure credit
over these 311-day cycles, and if you -- you know, you
get to the 311th day, you take the 54 days of credit,
and together, they equal a year of the sentence imposed.
But what the statute says is you make the
determination at the end of the year. And we don't read
"year" to be a 311-day period. We read it to be a
365-day period.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but as Justice Scalia
says, you know, you do make the determination on the
365th day, but what you determine is that the -- having
been a good prisoner, his first year expired 54 days
earlier, and then you start over.
MR. WALL: But what -- that's right. But
what the statute -- the statute doesn't just say,
Justice Stevens, you make the determination at the end
of the first year of the term. The determination is
that during that year, the prisoner has displayed
compliance. So he has got to display compliance through
day 1 through day 365.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me interrupt and get
one thing off my mind that I just -- supposing he
misbehaves in year 3. Does that just affect his good
time credits in year 3, or does it mean he is canceled
for years 1 and 2?
MR. WALL: No. He can lose credit that he
has accrued up to that point, but he can't lose credit
that he has -- that he is eligible for in future years.
So let's say that we are coming up on the end of the 3rd
year. He's earned his full 108 days for his first two
years, and he has earned some prorated portion. He can
lose any of that, but he is still eligible going forward
to keep getting 54 days at the end of each year.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But he can lose his
108 days?
MR. WALL: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How can he do that?
I'm looking at page 14A of your appendix. It says:
Such credit toward service of sentence vests at the time
that it is received. Credit that is vested may not
later be withdrawn.
MR. WALL: I'm sorry, Mr. Chief Justice. I
should have been more clear.
For prisoners sentenced subject to the SRA,
which was in effect from 1987 to 1994, you are right.
And that is the SRA according to your brief.
Their credit vests. That vesting
requirement was eliminated in the PLRA, which governs
prisoner's sentences since 1986. So for the vast bulk
of prisoners in the Federal system who are subject to
the PLRA, their credit does not vest until they are
released.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Wall, the -- if we
consider both methods plausible, the number comes out at
15 percent -- 85 percent, 15 percent. It's a more
workable number, and there are some hints in the
legislative history that Congress thought 85 percent,
not 87.2 or whatever it is.
So in choosing between those two methods,
why not take the easier number to work with?
MR. WALL: Well, two reasons. I think to
the extent that you are suggesting the statute is
ambiguous, the Bureau of Prisons is charged by Congress
with administering the statute in both Reno v. Koray and
Lopez v. Davis. This Court deferred to the bureau's
interpretation of other prisoner credit statutes. We
think the bureau is equally entitled to the same
discretion here to interpret this statute.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We -- if we disagree with
that, if we disagree that the BOP has authority in this
area, then -- as Justice Ginsburg's question, I think,
suggests -- does not the Rule of Lenity apply?
MR. WALL: Well, this Court's been clear -
and I -- I can't put it any better than Justice
Sotomayor did in her first opinion in Sash -- that this
is not a criminal statute. It neither imposes a
criminal prohibition on conduct nor -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, how do you explain
the Granderson case?
MR. WALL: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The Granderson case.
MR. WALL: I'm not familiar with that case,
Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I had thought that in that
case, Justice Ginsburg, for this Court, established the
proposition that the Rule of Lenity is applicable. I
know it wasn't cited in the Petitioner's brief, either.
That was a parole revocation case.
But in -- in any event, the -- shouldn't the
Rule of Lenity apply? If the Rule of Lenity is thought
of as a notice requirement insofar as giving you warning
to what conduct is punishable, that's one thing, but
doesn't the Rule of Lenity mean more than that? It's a
check against the power of the State, so that you simply
mitigate the -- the power of the State in favor of the
individual. In a case like this, apply the Rule of
Lenity.
MR. WALL: I think it's a check against the
power of the State when it's penalizing conduct or when
it's putting forth a penalty for a criminal prohibition.
But in both Koray and Lopez, this Court was considering
what prisoner credit statutes meant, other prisoner
credit statutes. 18 U.S.C. 3585 and 3621. And in both
of those, it deferred to the bureau's interpretation.
And in both, it specifically rejected application of the
Rule of Lenity.
And I think the notion there is that this
statute is not a criminal statute. It's about an
administrative reward for compliance with institutional
regulations. And that's different from setting forth a
prohibition on conduct where the penalty that someone is
sentenced to by a court once they have been convicted of
a criminal offense -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the Granderson case
is cited in the brief for the National Association Of
Criminal Defense Lawyers, and as I read it, it applies
to this area and it seems to me that it ought to.
I mean, you tell us this is not a criminal
statute. I -- I certainly think it has -- it has all
the impact and force of the State detaining a person for
a criminal act.
MR. WALL: Well, it is a statute that
determines in some sense how long you will be in prison,
so I take your point. But it does so not by extending
the penalty applicable to the conduct, but by offering
an administrative reward; sort of relieving you of part
of the burden of that -- that penalty.
And I am not aware of any case -- and I am
obviously not familiar with Granderson, but I am not
aware of any case from this Court, or indeed any lower
court, finding that section 3624 is a criminal statute,
as this Court's cases uses the term.
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but isn't there
another consideration? It's not the Rule of Lenity, but
it's something else we should take into account.
In the -- in their reply brief, they say it
costs about 25 or $26,000 to house a particular
prisoner, and the number of prisoners involved is -
something like $100 million in taxpayers' money is at
issue in this case. It -- is -- you don't disagree with
that general figure, do you?
MR. WALL: I'm -- I think the basis for that
is just math that the Petitioners have done. I don't
have any independent basis for confirming or denying it.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But in any event, it's
clear it's a lot of money. And -- and is that not a
factor that we should be aware of in this case, because,
all other things being equal -- assume the statute is
totally ambiguous, and if you -- if one -- one -- one
version will save the -- the government $100 million a
year and the other version will cost it, is that -
isn't that a factor we -- we should take into
consideration?
MR. WALL: I think it's a factor that the
bureau could, should and has taken into consideration in
the developing its interpretation as the agency in
charge of administering the statute. But what the
bureau has found is that it's method allows you to earn
good time for all the time you are incarcerated, so you
always have incentive to follow prison regulations.
And what Petitioners haven't responded to
and the government's point in our brief that if you
start measuring by 311-day cycles, you are assuming that
they getting the full 54 days of credit. And to the
extent that they don't, no matter how they calculate it,
Justice Scalia, no matter what their matter of
bookkeeping is, if they don't get the 54 days of credit
for each cycle, there will be some corresponding period
at the end of the sentence when they are serving time
and they have already had their ten -- you know, their
reviews and they are no longer eligible for the -
JUSTICE BREYER: That's true. But the
strongest argument -- I -- I don't want to put words in
his mouth because this is complicated. But I see it as
this. Let's call that time you are talking about, that
tenth year, phantom time.
MR. WALL: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, you are saying don't
put in any phantom time. And he's saying let's put some
in.
Now, the strong -- a strong argument, I
think, for his is the following -- think about that
first year. That first year we are going to calculate
54 days, subtract it, everybody seems to agree we get to
the number 311, right?
But if you were to apply the last sentence
to that first year, the prorating sentence, you wouldn't
get 54. You would get like 45 days, or 47 or something
like that. But everybody agrees under the Bureau of
Prisons system that it is 54. And, therefore, in
respect to the first year, they are calculating phantom
time, i.e., not the first year, but a person who had a
sentence to a year and a day. If you had a sentence to
a year and a day, you agree it's 54 days, and everybody
agrees with that, and that includes phantom time.
So he said, well, if you include it for the
first year, since the statute says nothing about the
first year, why not include it for the other years, too?
How can you possibly justify phantom time being included
in the first year but not in the other years?
MR. WALL: Justice Breyer, I disagree with
your premise. Someone sentenced to a year and a day is
eligible for credit, but because that person is accruing
credit as he serves, he will never actually get 54 days.
By the time he gets to the 319th day, he has accrued
47 days of credit, those combine to equal his 366-day
sentence.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, in other words, they
don't let him out under 311?
MR. WALL: That's -- that's exactly -
JUSTICE BREYER: In other words, the Bureau
of Prisons for a person whose has a sentence of a year
and a day does not let him out 54 days short, rather
they let him out 47 days short, because they apply the
last sentence in the prorating of that sentence?
MR. WALL: And that's exactly our difference
with Petitioner's view. Exactly. What Petitioner -
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that -- is that what
happens?
MR. WALL: Yes. Yes. He is released after
the 319th day.
And I think what Petitioners actually want
is phantom time even in the first year. What they are
saying is fine, he may only serve 311 days, 312 days,
319 days, we want the full 54. So, instead of letting
him out at 319, back him up to 312, we want the phantom
week in the first year.
And, so, I think the way the bureau
interprets it, there is no phantom time in any year.
The way the Petitioners interpret it, there is phantom
time in every year, no matter the length of the
sentence. As I said I think it creates a gap in
coverage. It rests on this assumption that prisoners
are always getting 54 days. That is just not the case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you disagree with your
colleague that that is the case most of the time, that
most Federal prisoners get good time credit, and of the
ones who get credit, most of them get the full 54 days?
MR. WALL: There are no statistics on this,
but, yes, Justice Ginsburg, I think the majority of
prisoners do earn the full credit, certainly these
Petitioners have. But I would say that there are, say,
15 to 20 percent Federal prisoner who tend to be repeat
offenders, and they are often being docked to good time
credit.
So, I think what you will see is that the
ones getting 54 days do it consistently, and the ones
not getting 54 days, often do that pretty consistently.
And, you know, the difficulty on Petitioner's method is
that no matter when you want to do that calculation,
Petitioners at bottom are saying what you should be
looking at is a 311-day period, and you take the
311 days served, you take the 54 days of credit, and
together they give you a year of the sentence imposed.
And not only does that not serve penological
interest, as the bureau has found, but it just doesn't
track the language of the statute, which says during
each year you have got to comply with the regulations.
The statute cares not just about your conduct from days
1 to 311, but your conduct from day 312 to 365. All of
those days are equal in the statute's eyes. If you want
54 days of credit knocked off the back end of your
sentence, you have got to behave and comply with the
rules for a full year each time you want the credit.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, this
explanation that has been given in your brief and the
one you are giving to us now as to why BOP chose what it
did, is there any statement outside of the penned
affidavit that explains why this choice was made?
MR. WALL: Other than the positions -
positions that the bureau has taken before the 11 courts
of appeals in which it has prevails, no, the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But in each one of them
they have taken the position that the statute was
unambiguous. Assuming that that is not accepted by us,
that it's ambiguous, what and where are we giving
Chevron or Skidmore deference to what set of facts or to
what -
MR. WALL: Two points, Justice Sotomayor. I
don't think the bureau has always taken the position
that the statute is unambiguous. It has taken the
fallback position, and it has prevailed on this position
in a number of courts of appeals. And it is worth
pointing out the bureau has prevailed in the First
through the Eleventh Circuits. It has won in 11 court
of appeals. And it has often prevailed on the ground
that it had discretion to interpret the statute to the
extended it was ambiguous.
Your second point, what would you defer
to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, did they exercise
discretion when they took the position that it was
unambiguous?
MR. WALL: As the pen declaration makes
clear, and this is at page 154 of the Joint Appendix,
when the bureau promulgated its rule in 1997, it did
that based on the statutory language and on making a
policy choice to accommodate penological interest,
ensuring that credit would always be an incentive to
good behavior and providing clear notice to inmates of
their projected release dates. So, I think -- you know,
the government has -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We have never given
deference, have we, to an affidavit submitted in
litigation to explain something that on its face is not
explained either in an agency's regulation or in its
policy statement that -- that -- this is giving
deference to an affidavit.
MR. WALL: Well, it's giving deference to
the rule, because the affidavit informs the court that
the rule is an exercise of the bureau's discretion. So
far as I know, the court has never faced that question
but the lower courts have. And a number of courts of
appeals faced with rulemaking and informal adjudication
have accepted supplementation of the record with
affidavits and declarations very much like this one.
Because what we are talking about here is an affidavit
from one of the agency's original decisionmakers.
If this was just a post hyperactualization,
I grant you it might not be enough. But this is one of
the bureau's lawyers involved in the decisionmaking in
the mid-1980's coming in and saying, here is why we
adopted the interpretation -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Subsequent legislative
history, so to speak, right?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, we -- we wouldn't
allow that -- those of us who use legislative history
don't allow a congressman to come in several years after
the bill has passed and say, oh, by the way, the reason
we voted for that is thus and such. We would kick that
out.
Why is it any different for an agency's
subsequent statement?
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, I think it is
different because that would be broadside in Overton
Park. And what this Court said is if there is not
enough in the agency action itself to enable judicial
review, the right answer is not to set it aside, the
right answer is to send it back to the agency to let the
agency decision makers explain why they did what they
did.
And while that might normally be the right
course here, the agency has already done that. It has
put forward its explanation, so I think this is one of
the rare circumstances where we don't need to remand on
Overton Park. We know why the agency adopted the rule,
and it did it both because of the statutory language and
because they thought it was the most sensible policy
choice.
And I guess I would turn it around a little
bit and say you have a rule promulgated by the agency
charged with administering the statute, an agency to
which this Court has twice deferred in the
interpretation of similar statutes. That rule has been
upheld as a substantive matter now in 11 courts of
appeals.
The Ninth Circuit set the rule aside on a
procedural basis, which has now been corrected by the
agency. It's a republished rule which corrects the
infirmities that the court of appeals identified.
And, so, the question is, faced with those
facts, what would be the point of asking the government
to recalculate 195,000 Federal sentences?
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think we sent cases
back under Overton Park for an agency's description of
history. I think we sent it back for the agency to give
a reason for its rule, whether that's its current reason
or its past reason. It -- it's the current reason that
counts.
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, even -- even if
you thought as the court of appeals did that the rule
was procedurally invalid, you would still, as the court
of appeals did, defer to the program statement under
some level of deference, at least Skidmore.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't have to worry
about me.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm -- I'm willing to
accept the -- the government's assertion here that
that's the government's position.
MR. WALL: And I -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think you are
lying.
MR. WALL: I -- I -
(Laughter.)
MR. WALL: My only point, Justice Scalia,
was that whether you get there by deferring to the rule
or by deferring to the program statement, as the court
of appeals did, every court of appeals to consider it
has come out in the same place, which is that by hook or
by crook, the bureau has exercised its discretion to
answer this question. And I -
JUSTICE STEVENS: You say there are 195,000
sentences affected by this rule. I don't know which way
that cuts. If there are 195,000 people spending more
time in -- you know, significantly more time in jail
than they should, that's kind of troublesome.
MR. WALL: Justice Stevens, I think what I
would say is the bureau has been doing it the same way
since 1987. Congress has amended this statute five
times in the last 20 years. It has never moved to alter
the bureau's methods.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the cumulated -
JUSTICE STEVENS: Probably they didn't
understand it because it's an awfully hard statute to
understand.
MR. WALL: Justice Stevens, with all
respect, Justice Breyer got it in the first 5 minutes.
So I think the -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, he's a lot smarter
than I am.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even Justice Breyer has got
it! Whoa!
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But what -- what we
were -- what we were saying, is this is 36,000 years of
prisoner time, I mean -- 36,000, that is older than
Marbury versus Madison.
MR. WALL: Justice Kennedy, that's true. I
think the point is that the language of the statute has
remained unchanged, and for the last 20 years the bureau
has interpreted that in a reasonable way. The language
is unambiguous, but even if it weren't, at least the
bureau's interpretation is reasonable, which is why 11
courts of appeals have deferred to it.
And so I take your point that they are
serving more time than under Petitioner's
interpretation, but I don't think that that policy
rationale is properly before this Court. It is properly
before the bureau, which has found that policy
consideration outweighed by other penological interests,
and I think that's the judgment to which this Court
should defer, not its own judgment about how much time
these prisoners should -- should be serving.
And I do think it's important in that regard
that Congress has returned the statute several times.
And I take your point that it is complicated, Justice
Stevens, but -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can finish
the -
MR. WALL: -- but Congress has made a number
of technical amendments and I don't think there is any
evidence it did not understand of how this longstanding
system works.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Wall.
Mr. Sady, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN R. SADY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SADY: Thank you.
The -- the idea that there could be time at
the end of the sentences is premised on "term of
imprisonment" mean "time served," which it cannot mean
in the same sentence where it says "beyond time served."
If you make the adjustment for good time
credit that is earned at the end of the year, it is
credit towards the service of the sentence; that means
that it's blocks of 365 days, that at the last day of
Mr. Barber's sentence if it's properly computed, he
would be looking at 365 days. If he behaved well until
close to the end, if we go to the last statute that says
prorate the remaining period of time, the 30 -
remaining 36 days he could earn, and credit it in the
last 6 weeks, because they are doing that simply as an
administrative technique.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Just so -- in your
system they do the measurement at the end of the
365 days. He misbehaves on the 340th day. And they say
for that reason, I'm only going to give you 10 days of
full time -- of good time credit.
MR. SADY: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So now your year starts
at 350?
MR. SADY: 355. Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, they said they are
only giving you 10 days of good time credit. Because at
the end of -- 355.
MR. SADY: Right. And so the 355 -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That was pretty bad.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: 355. Now, your year
starts again on 355 days -
MR. SADY: 365, and if he behaves very badly
he has to go all the way to the end of that 365 and
doesn't get any adjustment, but if he -- next year he
starts all over again for 365 days, and if he is very
good he gets the 54 days.
If I could address the question that was
raised by Justice Ginsburg on the Rule of Lenity. I
would like to point out that in the -- we have relied on
both R.L.C. and in -- on Granderson for your
articulation of the Rule of Lenity as it would apply in
this case. Which, if after we're looking at all the
other -- the statute, the history, the context, and if
we cannot -- if we apply the Rule of Lenity, if the
government's position cannot be shown to be
unambiguously correct, we have at least ambiguity here,
and then we go to Chief Justice Marshall's seminal
discussion of lenity.
And what he said was that we look at lenity
for the proposition -- to back the principle that the
power of punishment belongs to the legislative
department; and the tenderness of the law for the rights
of individuals, both of -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the argument -- one
of the arguments is it is not punishment at all. This
is a reward; this is a reward for good behavior.
MR. SADY: The Court in -- in Lynce and in
Weaver used the term "increase in punishment" when there
was no longer available good time credit. For -- to say
that somebody has to serve 87.2 percent of the term of
imprisonment imposed by the judge instead of 85 percent,
that is imprisonment.
For Mr. Barber that's over 6 months'
additional time behind bars in a prison. That's -
that's penal; that is affecting individual liberty, it's
the type of liberty that was intended to be covered by
the Rule of Lenity; and especially in the situation
where the initial sentence was imposed based on a grid
that was calibrated assuming 85 percent, he's ending up
serving 2.2 percent more time than the sentencing judge,
in imposing the sentence. So that aspect of punishment.
And in actual raw time behind bars in a prison.
Unless there are further questions, I would
reserve my -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Sady.
MR. SADY: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:02 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
21:20 50:19 amended 52:17 arguments 32:5,8 57:8
57:25 40:25 41:17 25:9,11 26:19 art 9:22 bars 32:13 57:9
29:21 adopted 49:14 54:10 56:11 based 17:15
50:13 amount 19:10 aside 50:5,24 18:9 30:11
affect 37:14 answer 28:7,8 23:4 51:4 basis 42:8,10
49:8 answered 7:8 assertion 51:21 23:2
agency 42:22 21:9 Assistant 1:18 6:8 7:11 9:18
37:18 51:8 49:5 50:23 8:23 42:14 behalf 1:16,20
agency's 48:22 51:2,13,15 assuming 10:12 2:4,7,10 3:8
agreed 12:24 appears 3:11 45:24 34:21 55:3
agrees 36:12 38:4 48:11 authority 39:11 56:2
8:11 13:22 40:21 awfully 21:8 57:1
57:17 AL 1:3 applies 41:7 52:22 belabor 7:9 9:24
45:5 56:11,14 B better 25:17
56:7 22:15,24 23:4 33:21 26:4 34:3 beyond 7:24,25
36:9 approximately 23:20 24:4 bill 49:21
25:20 allow 49:19,20 arbitrary 21:18 35:22 36:1 block 31:2
21:13 alter 52:18 argument 1:12 56:20 24:8 34:12
56:4 ambiguity 56:16 2:2,5,8 3:4,7 backwards 55:1
43:8 C 2:1 3:1 circumstances 25:21 27:18 51:13,14 52:5
18:21 calculation 8:6 clothes 3:25 4:8 52:6 53:18
21:2 46:16 colleague 46:2 consideration Court's 25:25
25:10,14 calendar 5:25 combine 44:22 41:25 42:19,21 39:14 41:23
26:8,18 33:19 combined 27:24 53:24 coverage 45:24
28:14 calibrate 18:7 come 29:18 considered covered 57:11
31:22 calibrated 18:9 49:20 52:7 17:25 26:22 creates 17:12
44:17 57:14 comes 16:20 considering 45:23
45:2,9 call 43:16 26:13 38:20 40:17 credit 3:16,17
53:5 canceled 37:15 coming 31:6 consistently 4:19 5:21,23
40:3 case 3:4 39:20 49:13 construe 15:23 10:18 15:2,14
42:2 43:3 39:22,23 40:1 commission 19:11 16:2,10 17:6,9
40:4,12 41:5 17:18,25 24:19 contends 18:12 20:5,24 21:12
42:13 45:25 18:12 convicted 41:3 22:25 23:15,17
6:25 change 6:12,14 16:15 27:10 43:9 32:3,8,19 33:3
11:13 6:16 43:15 54:5 cost 42:17 34:11 35:4,5
16:8 changes 6:6 7:19 comply 46:24 costs 42:3 36:7,17,19
21:22 7:21 47:4 counsel 8:2 26:2 37:17,18 38:5
23:17 charge 42:23 components 29:2 47:6 38:6,13,17
26:9 35:9 charged 39:4 6:17 57:22 39:7 40:18,19
39:4 50:19 computed 55:2 count 35:6 43:5,8 44:19
42:21,24 check 40:10,14 conclusion counts 12:1 44:20,22 46:3
45:2,19 Chevron 47:18 18:23,24 51:11 46:4,7,11,19
47:12,21 Chief 1:15 3:3,9 conduct 39:18 course 18:11 47:3,5 48:15
48:12 15:11,17 16:4 40:8,15 41:2 50:10 54:24,25 55:6
53:14 26:2,6 38:3,8 41:16 46:25 court 1:1,12 55:13,19 57:4
54:7,14 56:17 47:1 3:10 12:6 credited 10:13
49:2,12 choice 47:10 42:10 19:11 21:14 30:12
53:17 48:14 50:16 conflicting 26:7 32:12 credits 4:5,12
chose 47:8 conform 19:12 41:3,21,22 20:9,11 27:20
40:16,24 6:21,24,24 7:2 decisionmakers 35:11 41:14 54:24
7:4,5 8:7,8,10 49:9 developing earning 27:16
10:17,23 11:9 declaration difference 10:24 easily 16:1
43:9 15:18,18,20 defer 48:5 51:15 46:15 12:23 20:9
16:25 17:1,3,5 deference 47:18 39:10,11 42:6 43:12 44:19
18:10 48:20,24,25 44:17 46:1 eliminated
14:2 25:1,18,21 53:18 discussion 56:18 11:15
26:15 26:15 27:24 deferring 52:4,5 display 37:10 ends 5:14 6:9,10
29:16,19 30:2 defined 4:15 displayed 37:9 11:13 22:2
8:21 32:22 33:2,3 department doing 8:23 10:21 entitled 33:3
11:5 33:11 34:12,16 1:19 56:22 16:10 24:7 39:8
13:2 34:18,18,20,23 depends 23:13 35:2 52:16 entitlement 29:6
14:9,21 35:1,5,12,20 23:14 55:7 equal 27:24
16:9 35:21 36:3,4,6 Deputy 1:15 D.C 1:8,19 36:20 42:14
36:19 37:3,21 description 51:7 44:22 47:2
37:24 38:1 detaining 41:11 E equally 34:25
25:5 43:5,8,25 44:4 determination E 1:6 2:1 3:1,1 39:8
44:10,20,22 8:25 9:1 14:7 earlier 14:22 especially 57:12
45:4,5,15,15 14:22 15:4,14 37:4 ESQ 1:15,18 2:3
31:20 45:16,25 46:4 15:18,22 16:9 early 11:24 2:6,9
33:4,5 46:13,14,19,19 22:14,19,19 earn 7:17 9:4,10 essence 20:24
46:25 47:2,3 23:18,19,19 11:12,20 12:1 establish 13:22
34:9,11 55:1,3,6,11,12 28:12 32:17,21 13:9,10,11 established 40:1
35:1 55:19 56:1,5,6 32:23 33:1 18:9 19:22 ET 1:3
December 5:14 34:8 36:22 28:4 31:5 event 40:5 42:11
37:2,11 7:14,15 26:14 37:1,7,8 42:24 46:7 everybody 19:5
44:9,10 35:11 determine 8:22 55:6 43:25 44:5,10
45:4 decide 21:19 32:19 34:20 earned 4:12 Everybody's
47:1 deciding 18:17 35:17 37:2 5:20 8:13 25:10
decision 13:25 determined 33:2 13:16 23:22 evidence 17:19
6:20 31:20 37:21,22
10:15 20:3 38:16 full 14:4,13 15:9 55:4 56:3,17 ground 48:2
16:10 46:3,9 51:5 15:10,20 20:5 goes 7:20 guess 33:20
26:10 figure 10:19 20:6 21:20 going 6:23 10:20 50:17
45:1,7,8 13:23 14:19 27:20 28:10,25 11:8 13:14 guideline 18:23
final 29:9 31:18 33:19,25 35:10 15:25 21:5,10 17:21 18:25
45:15 46:4,7 47:5 28:19 29:15,16 H
finished 33:22 further 57:18 37:23 43:24 hang 6:4
9:9,9 13:23 G 4:5,12,17 5:7 33:10 35:13,14
10:11 21:24 22:8,16 gap 45:23 7:17,22 9:21 hard 27:1 52:22
22:21 23:2,5 GARY 1:3 10:6,18 11:16 harsher 19:5,16
39:19 28:24 29:6 43:5 45:25 15:14 16:2,5 help 28:18
50:7 33:6,16 37:3,8 46:13,14 18:8 20:3,4,9 hints 38:22
50:11 44:16 45:14,18 56:8,24 31:2,5,10,14 Honor 4:10 18:4
force 41:11 given 5:2 10:19 government's 54:19
29:25 36:8 48:19 43:3 51:21,22 imaginary 21:4
found 12:6 glad 26:19 41:20 56:10 5:11,11,14,15
57:6,13 initial 19:8,9 JEFFREY 1:18 43:19 44:17,24 language 8:18
insignificant judge 13:6 16:3 48:7,19 49:15 23:6,7,14
4:3 instance 32:5 judgment 53:25 51:24 52:3,10 32:13 33:7
institutional 54:1 52:15,20,21,24 46:23 48:13
6:6 35:19 40:25 judicial 50:4 52:25 53:3,5,5 50:14 53:13,15
institutionaliz...
7:12,13 19:16 3:9,19 4:7,13 54:14 55:9,15 Laughter 24:13
8:13 intended 7:23 4:21 5:8,9,17 55:18,23,25 36:13 49:17
10:6,11 9:4 57:11 5:22 6:4,22 7:6 56:8,17,24 51:19 52:2
11:5,10 interest 46:22 8:2,3,20 9:7,11 57:20,22 53:2,7 55:22
48:14 9:13,16,23 justify 44:15 55:24
18:19 interesting 10:3,8,16 11:1 law 29:3 56:22
25:19 12:9,13,16,20 K lawyers 41:7
interests 53:24 13:1,10,14,18 keep 37:24 49:12
24:8 interpret 11:15 14:3,12,14,15 Kennedy 12:9 leaves 4:9
29:11 39:9 45:21 15:11,17 16:4 12:13,16,20 left 31:19
54:21 48:3 16:14 17:11,17 13:1 32:2 legislative 38:23
interpretation 18:11,21 19:24 33:24 34:2,5 49:15,19 56:21
32:6 40:20 42:22 21:2 22:5,10 39:25 41:5 lenity 39:13 40:2
49:14 50:21 22:15,22,24 52:20 53:8,12 40:6,6,9,13,22
48:15 interpreted 24:1,3,10,14 kind 52:14 56:14,18,19
interprets 35:24 25:17 26:2,6,8 knock 34:18 letting 45:16
interrupt 30:16 28:7,14,15 31:17 32:9 43:20
17:20,21 18:25 30:2,16,21 6:23 7:17 literally 17:8
49:12 33:17,24 34:2 33:18 36:18 little 34:1 50:17
57:10 issue 10:1 42:6 35:3,15,25 43:11 46:15 41:14
37:7,12,25 50:13 52:11,13 43:12 57:4
January 5:13,15 40:1 41:5,24 17:2 21:4,25
26:13 L
35:10 laid 26:10
35:9 54:21,21 misbehaving obviously 41:20 parole 40:4
46:18 meaning 7:18 11:24 occur 32:21 part 30:11 31:17
56:12 12:3,4 19:22 mitigate 40:11 October 27:7 41:17
means 3:14,16 42:12 offenders 46:10 29:9,14 30:9
5:24 7:3 11:12 10:19 15:1 offering 41:16 particular 42:3
53:3 meant 40:18 move 5:25 16:11 16:20 21:18 passed 33:25
41:3
23:18 mechanics 15:25 17:25 21:10 6:3 9:10 10:23 people 19:13
48:13 16:1 26:22 28:25 11:12 18:9 24:21 52:12
46:15 nine 29:18 order 18:7 perfect 4:10
24:16 38:25 52:19 50:24 original 49:9 period 14:8,24
30:6 MICHAEL 1:3 nobody's 25:3 ought 41:8 16:3 32:18
mid-1980's normally 30:13 outside 47:9 36:23,24 43:9
45:22 million 42:5,16 note 17:13 53:24 permission
50:22 mind 37:13 notice 40:7 Overton 50:2,13 25:25
minimum 17:13 48:16 51:7 permit 8:3
14:19 minor 20:13 number 8:9,12 P 13:1,2 41:11
5:1,10 minutes 52:25 20:3,14 38:20 page 2:2 18:5 Petitioner 32:5,8
54:15 38:22 39:1 25:19 38:4 45:8
12:8 misbehaved 42:4 44:1 48:11 Petitioners 1:4
15:19 33:15 47:24 49:4 paper 16:19 1:17 2:4,10 3:8
21:7 misbehaves 54:9 20:21 31:6 32:5,16
37:15
42:9 position 12:3 21:25 38:10,16 prorated 29:11 really 27:5
45:13,21 15:21 18:14,15 42:4 45:24 30:12 31:19 reason 10:7
54:17 18:16 47:15,21 46:3,7 54:2 37:22 11:14 23:13
34:10 51:22 56:15 10:13 11:4,5,7 45:6 51:9,9,10,10
45:8 positions 47:11 22:7 23:1,15 proration 27:13 55:12
53:20 47:12 33:15 38:15 28:18 29:14 reasonable
44:7,11 possibly 44:15 4:18 7:1 10:10 19:8 reasonably 5:10
45:14,17 post 49:10 11:13 15:22 providing 48:16 reasons 39:2
power 40:10,11 16:8 18:13 provision 8:19 REBUTTAL
6:11 7:25 precisely 31:23 23:18 39:4 punishable 40:8 recalculate 51:5
35:23 44:6 45:3 punishment receive 5:23 7:1
17:15 probably 22:12 purposes 34:11 received 22:6,21
15:5 22:11 principle 56:20 program 30:6 20:17 30:17 refers 10:5,6
27:5 35:5 prison 11:25 51:15 52:5 39:12 49:3 regard 54:3
41:15 21:5 32:7 progresses 6:14 51:3 52:9 56:7 regarded 33:4
48:5 51:4 41:14 43:1 prohibition questions 57:18 regulation 48:22
53:13,19 57:9,17 39:18 40:16 quite 30:24 regulations
56:9 prisoner 3:23 41:2 quote 22:6 35:19 41:1
31:22 7:10,17 10:9 14:2 15:3 rejected 40:21
13:12 14:1 48:17 R 1:15 2:3,9 3:1 relatively 13:6
31:12 32:19 53:22,22 55:2 rate 3:15 11:8 13:24,24 14:2
50:15 33:2,10 35:18 proposing 36:15 rationale 53:22 15:3 30:14
35:20 37:3,9 proposition raw 57:17 48:17
30:11 42:4 46:9 56:20 17:19 32:15 10:10 21:6
53:10 prorate 15:1 36:22,23 41:7 31:21 34:4
55:5,6 55:21 saying 8:23 17:9,12 34:6 45:15 46:21
41:25 48:12 says 3:23 4:15 12:5,8,10,17 28:11,20 30:12
50:18,21,24 12:18 13:21 13:7,8,21 14:9 46:19 54:21,22
52:11 56:8,11 18:6,24 19:18 15:9,15,19 17:10 24:3
40:7 rulemaking 49:5 25:23 27:3,9 17:2,13,15 service 3:18
R.L.C 56:10 29:5,9 32:20 19:15 21:13,16 8:1,11 9:17,18
21:13 S 37:1 38:4 24:24 25:24 16:11 21:13
S 2:1 3:1 44:13 46:23 26:13,16 27:12 23:15 25:24
44:7 3:6,7,9 4:6,10 Scalia 3:19 4:7 28:11 29:9,13 serving 5:13 6:8
4:14 5:3,17,23 4:13,21 5:8 29:13 30:19 6:14 7:11 19:5
2:7 26:5 11:8 12:12,15 35:3,15,25 44:2,3,9,9,23 54:2 57:15
57:1,1 23:3,7,10,13 36:2 48:5 sentences 17:22 45:5
26:10,21 24:12,15 25:8 see 19:1 22:1 38:15 51:5 shows 18:2
29:17,23 25:12,16,18 24:20 27:2 52:11 54:20 side 30:25
31:8 54:15,16,18 34:7,7 36:11 sentencing significantly
32:4 55:14,17,21 43:15 46:12 17:14,18,25 52:13
57:2,20
55:7 18:22 30:6 submitted 48:20 taken 26:15 thing 21:7 27:10
States 1:1,12 49:15,25 43:16 49:8 think 3:20 4:7
19:12 22:1,5 17:3,5 43:25 technique 55:8 26:8,11 33:6
9:14 10:8 27:9,13 31:23 suggests 17:24 43:11 39:12 40:14,23
11:1 32:14,20 33:7 39:13 tend 46:9 41:10 42:8,20
23:23 34:2 35:16,24 supplemental tenderness 43:23,23 45:13
36:21 37:6,6 18:5 56:22 45:19,23 46:6
29:2 39:3,5,9,17 supplementati... tenth 20:25 46:12 47:21
40:24,24 41:10 49:6 43:17 48:17 50:1,11
39:16 41:13,22 42:14 suppose 12:16 tenths 29:18 51:6,8,24
42:23 44:13 16:20 ten-page 8:9 52:15 53:1,13
55:9 46:23,25 47:15 supposed 4:8 ten-year 5:4 6:2 53:21,25 54:3
47:22 48:3 supposing 37:13 term 3:11,14,24 54:10
statutory 19:17 24:11,14,16 7:19 8:13 9:21 40:6 50:15
33:22 36:25 37:7,12 19:8,14 25:20 29:11 7:17,22,24,25
37:4 37:25 41:24 take 8:8,10 9:13 30:4 37:8 8:12,18 9:8,21
42:11 52:10,15 10:9 11:5 17:3 41:23 54:20 9:22,25 10:6
36:19
twice 50:20 vested 33:25 1:19 wrong 15:12
two 3:13 6:10,17 38:6 wasn't 40:3
15:14 9:18 12:4,4,7 vesting 34:1 way 6:2,18 8:4 X
17:10 19:12 37:21 38:13 9:2,6 10:21 x 1:2,7
18:8,18 38:25 39:2 vests 34:3 38:511:1 15:9
20:3,4 47:20 38:13 19:11,17 24:7
21:18 two-step 13:23 view 12:11 31:424:17 28:21 year 5:14,15,15
23:16,16 type 57:11 34:10 45:8 31:12 32:14 5:16,18 6:1,9
25:21,23 viewed 5:11 35:22 45:19,21 6:10,19 7:12
27:16 U voted 49:22 49:21 52:11,16 7:12,14,19
28:19,24 unambiguous 53:15 56:3 8:11,15 9:9,18
31:2,5,10 47:16,22 48:9 W Weaver 57:3 10:16 11:9
34:3 53:16 wait 3:22 week 45:18 12:10,11,19,21
37:15 unambiguously Wall 1:18 2:6 weeks 14:1,5 12:25 13:2,3,8
42:25,25 56:16 26:3,4,6,21 15:5 25:6 13:12,15,16,21
unchanged 27:11 28:6,10 29:12 30:13 13:22 14:8,21
53:14 28:21 29:3,8 32:1 55:7 15:7,15,19,20
understand 6:4 29:17,23 30:1 well-behaved 16:4,18,21,22
47:5 6:5,15 9:23,24 30:8,20,23 35:21 16:23 20:25
53:10 15:24 24:16 31:4,11,16 weren't 53:16 21:4,6,9,11,15
54:1,19 31:8 32:24 32:4 33:6,20 we're 56:12 21:21,24,24
52:22,23 54:11 34:1,7,22,25 Whoa 53:6 22:2,7,8,16,21
understanding 35:7,16 36:9 willing 51:20 23:1,2,5,23
6:13 15:7 36:16 37:5,17 withdrawn 38:7 24:4,5,23,25
8:16 36:8 32:25 39:14,21,23 word 12:2 16:21 26:14 27:1,2,3
54:4 unique 34:2 40:14 41:13 words 12:20 27:6,15,17,18
unusual 20:12 48:25 50:1 35:23 39:1 29:1,7,8,9,10
use 3:15 4:10,25 52:3,15,24 38:22 30:3,9,10,12
49:19 want 7:9 11:2 31:13 54:12 31:10,13,15,17
19:14 41:23 20:24 21:9 28:16 31:24,25 32:11
v 1:5 3:4 39:5,6 47:2,5 30:24 44:3 33:25 34:11,19
43:17,24 31:11,12 3 3624 3:22 41:22 6:21,24 7:2,4
44:3,7,8 108 37:21 38:1 3 2:4 23:8,9 32:9 3624(a) 4:15 8:10,16 9:2,4,7
11 47:12 48:1 37:14,15 10:4 9:10,13 10:23
45:3 50:22 53:17 3rd 37:20 3624(b) 4:20 11:9,12,19
11-month 13:7 30 1:9 55:5 10:4 13:21 12:1,11 13:15
47:5 11:02 1:13 3:2 300 14:20 24:5 3624(d) 3:23 14:4,13 15:2
55:15,25 12.9 20:1 31 35:11 365 5:20 6:24 15:10 16:12,18
12:02 57:24 31st 5:14 7:14 7:2 8:24 11:18 16:22 18:10
15:1 13 28:23 311 5:5 6:20 8:7 16:9,13 17:3 21:7,9,12,23
17:1,2 14 28:23 8:21 11:19 22:14,15 23:11 23:21 26:15
20:20 14A 38:4 14:17 15:10,18 23:25 24:8 29:16 30:2,10
22:4 140 18:5 16:5 22:21,23 25:1 33:2,11 30:11 32:3,7
28:13,16 15 15:14,18 17:6 23:12 24:1 34:9,16,18,20 32:10,11,22
19:25 38:21,21 32:16 34:12,16 34:23 35:1,5 33:3 35:12,21
46:9 34:17,23 35:6 35:13,20 36:3 36:19 37:3,24
154 48:11 35:13 36:3,8 36:4,6 37:11 43:5,8,25 44:4
49:20 17 32:6,7 44:1,25 45:15 47:1 55:1,3,11 44:6,10,20
53:9,14 18 40:19 46:19 47:1 56:2,3,5 45:4,16,25
15:3 311th 9:19 34:13 365th 5:25 23:20 46:4,13,14,19
38:11 36:18,23 43:4 366 12:18 56 25:19
46:18 366th 33:5
1:4 3:4 1994 38:11 366-day 44:22 6
14:20 33:11
48:12 33:13,23 34:12 38 31:20 6 15:1,5 29:12
47:1 30:13 32:1
5:14,18 16:20 2 4 55:7 57:8
35:1,10 312th 33:4
5:15 16:21 319 45:16,17 4 32:2 54:15 622 36:5
47:1 27:3 28:16 40 16:11 67 17:1,3
5:13,15 319th 27:23 28:1
34:3 29:17 44:21 419 20:22
37:16 419-day 21:24 7
5:5,7 8:14,17 2.2 19:9,13 45:12 70 11:14
33:15 419-year 9:9
10:11 57:15 42 14:5,16
15:1 20 46:9 52:18 340th 55:11 8
55:16 430 16:25
53:14 432 16:24 31:14 8 9:10 16:23
18:9 355 55:17,20,21 21:6,25 26:16
20:8 55:25 56:1 45 44:4
21:5 2010 1:9 6:10 47 27:24 29:19 28:13 30:19
24:7 3585 40:19 8th 31:13
9:12 36 25:18,21 55:6 44:4,22 45:5
55:12,19 2011 6:10 7:15 470 11:13 85 17:15 18:6
21:4 31:2 36,000 53:9,10 19:25 38:21,23
42:3 360 5:12 12:13
26 2:7 5 57:6,14
9:3 12:15,17,20 5 5:12 52:25 87.2 17:13 38:24
31:20,21 360-day 12:22
16:17 27 15:2,4 50 16:22 57:5
26:13 3621 40:19 51 34:18
17:4,4 31:19 3621(a) 10:4 9
30:14,19 54 2:10 3:17 5:7
8:16,17 17:1
30:21
8:15 30:14
31:17,18
36:8
