IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ALBERT HOLLAND, :
Petitioner : No. 09-5327
v. :
FLORIDA :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, March 1, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
TODD G. SCHER, ESQ., Miami Beach, Florida; on behalf of
Petitioner.
SCOTT D. MAKAR, ESQ., Solicitor General, Tallahassee,
Florida; on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
TODD G. SCHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
SCOTT D. MAKAR, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
TODD G. SCHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 48
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear
argument next in Case 09-5327, Holland v. Florida.
Mr. Scher.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF TODD G. SCHER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SCHER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
It is undisputed that Petitioner was not
provided notice that the State supreme court had denied
his postconviction appeal and had issued its mandate,
with the result being that his AEDPA statute of
limitations expired. The very day he learned this,
Petitioner immediately prepared a pro se habeas petition
and filed it within 24 hours. Before this, Petitioner
had taken --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do -- what in the
record shows us that the failure to tell him that by the
lawyer was anything other than negligence? What in the
record suggests that the lawyer, just as many lawyers
do, forgot to call the client, forgot to send him
something? What shows that this is more than
negligence?
MR. SCHER: Well, first of all, we have what
the Eleventh Circuit characterized Mr. Collins's conduct
as, which was gross negligence. And what we have here
is a confluence --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I'm trying to find
the basis for that finding.
MR. SCHER: We have a repeated pattern. For
example, first of all we have to go back in terms of what
happened in State court. First we have Mr. Collins's
assurances to Mr. Holland that he would in fact file his
Federal -- or was aware of this --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But -- but --
MR. SCHER: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what his intent
was.
MR. SCHER: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: People say I'm going to
do something, and they fail to do it often because
something else comes up, because something has happened.
That doesn't show intentionality in -- the failure to
act doesn't necessarily prove that it was intentional.
MR. SCHER: Well -- well, in terms of that
what we have here, for example, is Mr. Collins was given
two opportunities -- or the record shows that there were
two opportunities for Mr. Collins to provide answers to
these very questions. The most significant of those
responses was -- was in the Federal district court where
the Federal district judge in fact issued a show cause
order to Mr. Collins asking him to respond specifically
to Mr. Holland's allegations. And in that response Mr.
Collins completely ignored all of Mr. Holland's
allegations. He never denied that -- being instructed
to file the petition. He never denied that he had in
fact informed Mr. Holland that he wouldn't -- that he
would file the petition. He never denied any of the
allegations with regard to the fact that Mr. Holland
wanted that Federal habeas petition filed on time. He
just went on to address --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that -- but that's
the case in every case where -- where the lawyer is
negligent and doesn't do something that -- that should
have been done.
MR. SCHER: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He has assured the client,
I will take care of your case, and he doesn't do it.
MR. SCHER: Well, here we have --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's all that happened
here.
MR. SCHER: This -- this goes beyond the
case of mere, garden-variety negligence that some of the
courts have -- have addressed, because here we have a
combination of not only a failure -- we have the failure
to notify Mr. Holland that the State supreme court has in
fact denied its opinion, despite repeated instructions
from Holland to Mr. Collins that he file his petition.
Mr. Holland wrote --
JUSTICE ALITO: The facts here -- the facts
here are quite extreme, but I am troubled by where you
think the line should be drawn. If it is just mere
negligence, would that be enough for equitable tolling?
MR. SCHER: No, courts -- and this Court in
Lawrence has held, for example, that mere negligence is
not sufficient. What we have here certainly is
suggestive --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well -- the difference
between mere negligence and gross negligence -- one of the
things I remember most clearly from torts in law school
is that that's pretty -- that's an ephemeral
distinction. But that's the one you one you think we
should draw, between mere -- if it's gross negligence,
then there's equitable tolling; if it's mere negligence,
it's not?
MR. SCHER: Well, we know certainly that the
floor from -- from cases from this Court and from other
courts is this mere or garden-variety negligence. But
when you get to other factors --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why should -- why should
that be? Two cases. Two criminal defendants. One
spends a lot of time trying to find the most competent
lawyer he can, and he does. He finds a highly skilled
lawyer, who makes one little mistake and it's
negligence.
The other doesn't care. He gets a lawyer
that's really incompetent, and the lawyer is grossly
negligent.
Now, you would be penalizing the client who
exercised the most diligence under your rule. I don't
understand the -- the justice of that. It seems to me
that the first client should be better off, not worse.
Now, maybe this is for your friend on the
other side to answer as well, but I'm not sure, even
following Justice Alito's initial line of questioning,
we can distinguish between gross and mere
negligence, that -- that it's even fair that we do so.
MR. SCHER: Well, this Court --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I didn't mean to interrupt
his line of questioning, but it seems to be consistent
with it.
MR. SCHER: This and other courts have --
have been able to draw that line, and, of course you have
to look at the specifics of each particular case,
because not only --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But what's the -- what's
the point? What's the justice in doing that?
MR. SCHER: Well, the way --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Other than just limit
the number of cases in which we are going to set aside
convictions?
MR. SCHER: Well, in some circumstances,
courts have just said, unfortunately you lose, your
attorney didn't commit -- it was just a mere mistake.
But what we have here, of course, is not -- we don't
have a mere mistake; we have a confluence of these
particular factors. And I think one of the more salient
points that distinguishes Mr. Holland's case, for
example, from Lawrence and from the situation in
Coleman, is that Mr. Holland tried to rid himself of Mr.
Collins on numerous occasions while this case was in
State court. In Lawrence and in Coleman, the
petitioners were not allowed to be free of their
lawyers; they accepted those lawyers' representation --
they accepted their representation and the acts and
omissions that occurred in Lawrence and in Coleman were
attributed to -- to the petitioners in those cases.
Here, however, by contrast, Mr. Holland did
everything he could -- he could, to be -- reasonably, to
be free of --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you -- are you
suggesting that there should be a different standard for
those habeas petitioners who are -- whose counsel is
appointed for them by the State or by the Federal
government, as opposed to just a lawyer they hire?
That's what I'm hearing you say.
MR. SCHER: No, and I didn't mean to suggest
that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So if the
standard is going to be the same -- I -- I go back to
Justice Alito's question, which is, the Eleventh Circuit
is saying negligence/gross negligence, the line is too
fine to draw. But there is a difference in a line
between negligence, however one defines it, and an
intentional, bad faith, dishonest, conflicted
malfeasance.
MR. SCHER: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Why isn't
that a more workable line, given that you can't have
equitable tolling without exceptional circumstances?
MR. SCHER: Correct enough, but I think
each -- well, certainly those were some of the
individual factors that the Eleventh Circuit discussed
when saying gross negligence isn't enough. I think in
Mr. Holland's case --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You haven't argued why
not, is what I'm saying to you. If exceptional
circumstances has to mean something that really makes
something exceptional, why is negligence of any variant
exceptional?
MR. SCHER: Because when you look at, for
example, in this particular case, when we are talking
about an exceptional circumstance, you're talking
about a lot of times -- and courts have done this --
is the confluence of what the attorney did or didn't do
versus what the petitioner did.
So we have, of course -- along the lines of
the extraordinary circumstances here, we have
Petitioner's diligence. And in some respects they
dovetail. And I think what the Eleventh Circuit did was
say we don't care what the Petitioner did; we don't
really care what the lawyer did; anything the lawyer did
unless the lawyer was mentally ill or had divided
loyalties, then that's -- those are the only factors that
were going to be considered in terms of equitable
tolling.
But that is -- that is antithetical to
the very nature of equity. Here --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We've never held that
equitable tolling for anything is available under this
statute of limitations here.
MR. SCHER: That's correct. This Court,
however --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And why should it be? It
seems to me, this is not like the ordinary statute of
limitations, where it says, you know, the statute is five
years, and courts make all sorts of necessary exceptions
to the five years. But here you have a statute that --
that provides exceptions, for example, "the limitation
period shall run from the latest of the date on which
the impediment to filing an application created by State
action in violation ... is removed." In other words, we're
going to toll it for that particular event.
"The date on which the constitutional right
asserted was initially recognized by the Supreme
Court" -- we're going to toll it for that.
"The date on which the factual predicate of
the claim or claims presented could have been discovered
through exercise of due diligence."
Many of -- many of the equitable tolling
holdings involved precisely that. We'll toll it since
you couldn't have found out about the violation within
the statutory period.
But all of these things are handled already
in 2244(d). Why should we -- why should we assume the
right to create some additional exceptions from the --
from the 1-year period?
MR. SCHER: Well, with all due respect, I
don't concur with the premise that those four particular
subsections of 2244(d) are exceptions or -- or are
tolling provisions. Indeed, this Court in Jimenez said
that those four, (a), (b), (c) and (d), are --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How many circuits have
said that there is equitable tolling?
MR. SCHER: Eleven circuits -- all of the
circuits, and the only circuit that hasn't held that is
the D.C. Circuit where it remains an open question. So
all of the circuits that have addressed --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then it's a question of
what are exceptional circumstances and whether it has to
be something deliberate, which is what the -- as I
understand it, the Michigan Court of Appeals said --
yes, if it was bad faith -- if it was a lie, a
deception --
MR. SCHER: Correct. And, in fact --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So they're drawing the
line between intentional and -- and without intending
but just being careless.
MR. SCHER: Correct. And, certainly here, I
think we have what they deemed to be gross negligence,
which I think certainly has an element of, let's say, for
example, to use the term "recklessness." I mean, we've
got six or seven circuits which have addressed this
particular issue in terms of this line between mere
negligence and -- and something more than that, and those
circuits have all -- in the 13 or 14 years since AEDPA
has been around, all been able to effectively deal with
these particular cases on their particular facts.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We have a case this
afternoon involving an opinion of ours named McNally,
which held that there's no such thing as a fraud action
for a right to honest services. How many of the courts
of appeals had held that there did exist such a right
when we held that there didn't in McNally?
MR. SCHER: I'm not familiar.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Every single court of
appeals that had faced it had held that there was such a
right. So the mere fact that you have 11 court of
appeals that have found that they have extraordinary
power -- judges like to find that they have power -- and
that doesn't necessarily make it right.
MR. SCHER: Well -- and I --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Of course, that also
assumes that McNally was correctly decided --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- and I don't think it was.
May I ask you another question --
MR. SCHER: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- prompted by Justice
Kennedy's question? Have any of the circuits taken a
look at the probable merit of the underlying claim in
evaluating the issue?
MR. SCHER: In this particular case or in
another case?
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, not in this particular
case. But Justice Kennedy says it's equally unjust to
the client whether it's negligence or gross negligence,
and I'm just asking whether in any of the reviews of this
issue, that you are familiar with, have they sometimes
looked at the probable merit of the claim, and if there
was merit, why, you were more disturbed about attorney
negligence, whereas if it's a frivolous claim, they
wouldn't be. But do you know if any of them take a look
at that at all?
MR. SCHER: There are certainly some cases
that address the tolling and then, of course, address the
merits of the petition. I don't know that there are any
that link the two. But, certainly, if you have, for
example -- the Respondent has argued that the floodgates
are just going open, but certainly one of the -- one of
the ways that a Federal district court can deal with
this and has dealt with this in the past 13 years is to
look at the petition. And if the petition raises
something that's so palpably meritless, you don't even
need to get to anything about whether it's -- just
dismiss the petition because, of course, the vast
majority of cases that AEDPA addresses in this particular
chapter are noncapital cases and are pro se cases.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I looked in the brief to
see if there was reference to the merits, underlying
merits of the case. Can you just tell me very quickly
what the key arguments are, if we ever reach the merits?
MR. SCHER: In the Petitioner's case?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
MR. SCHER: He had -- well, there were a
number of issues that he raised on direct appeal. There
was issues regarding counsel. For example, I know in
the postconviction motion, one of the key issues was he
had a what's termed in Florida "a Nixon issue," which is
where counsel conceded some of the elements of the
crime.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I shouldn't probably
take your time with that. I will look at the State
record.
MR. SCHER: But -- but --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Scher, one point that
you didn't mention, but you did I thought stress it in
your brief, was that counsel here said: Oh, the
deadline had run even before I was engaged, even before
I was appointed to represent this man, so there was
nothing that I could do for him, because the time had
already expired.
MR. SCHER: That's correct,
Justice Ginsburg. What happened is that that particular
explanation came up after the fact. I think what's
significant about that, number one, is that his
explanations have been a moving target to a large
extent. But what's even more important is that none of
that information was ever imparted to Mr. Holland while
the case was pending.
While Mr. Collins was providing assurances
and reassurances to Mr. Holland -- about, don't
worry, your State postconviction motion will be filed
on time, your Federal rights will be honored, everything
will be done, your appeal will be taken, once we are
done in the Florida Supreme Court we will go off to the
Federal district court -- at no time did Mr. Collins ever
say: We've got a big problem here; the statute may have
run, and so we need to start thinking in advance of ways
to deal with this.
For example, if Mr. Collins truly
believed that the statute had already run, the day the
Florida Supreme Court issued that decision, he should
have been in Federal court filing something right away.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could you just tell me in a
sentence or two what test you think we should apply for
equitable tolling? What is necessary in order for there
to be equitable tolling?
MR. SCHER: Your Honor, I think the -- the
test is the test that this Court has applied, which is
in Pace and in Lawrence, which is extraordinary
circumstances coupled with diligence. I think under
those particular -- coupled with diligence, the
Petitioner's diligence.
JUSTICE ALITO: What does "extraordinary
circumstances" mean?
MR. SCHER: It's -- it's a case-by-case type of
issue. It's because it's an equitable remedy. It's not
something that's susceptible to rigid rules, which of
course is the problem with the Eleventh Circuit's
categorical exclusion of a particular large chunk of
misconduct on the part of the attorney. But certainly
here, where we have extraordinary circumstances, we have
lack of notice to the Petitioner that his State court
opinion had been issued, that they had affirmed, that
the mandate had come out; and a failure to communicate,
wholesale failure to communicate, bordering on, in fact,
abandonment --
JUSTICE SCALIA: All of that has nothing to
do with -- with what caused -- what caused the inability
to -- to bring the habeas action.
MR. SCHER: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: All of that is -- is
preliminary to that. This may have been a very
irresponsible lawyer, but that has nothing to do with
the event that -- the simple event, failure to file in
that what, 30-day period, which --
MR. SCHER: Fourteen days.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Fourteen days. It seems to
me "extraordinary" means unusual. So you say any unusual
event is a possible?
MR. SCHER: Well, I think the one --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Any unusual event is a
possible for a court to say, oh, yes, it says a year,
but this is unusual so we will give you a year and a
half.
MR. SCHER: Well, I think what we have here
is what makes this case I think unusual, and it's the
first type of case that this Court has seen, is under
these circumstances you have this confluence of events.
And I think what makes this case -- what sets this case
apart from the other ones that this Court has seen and
that certainly other courts have seen is, for example,
it's extraordinary -- or it was diligent for Mr. Holland
to have asked the Florida Supreme Court on two occasions
to rid himself of Collins, and he asked to proceed pro se.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The client -- this client
was sort of the pesky client, but apparently knew a lot
more about AEDPA than most people generally do. I mean,
AEDPA's not exactly an ordinary term.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And had a lot of time to
devote to it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and suppose you have a
client who is just bewildered. He doesn't know AEDPA;
he doesn't know Federal court. Why should he be in any
worse position than this client?
MR. SCHER: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me it would be
the other way around. This fellow knew enough that, if
he had really just done a little bit more, he would have
-- well, he tried to file a petition, but he might have
done a little bit more.
MR. SCHER: Well, I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the uninformed client,
the ignorant client, could never have approached this.
I don't know why he shouldn't be more protected than
your client, which goes back to Justice Alito's question.
I'm not sure how we draw this line.
MR. SCHER: I think the problem we have here
with Mr. Holland is that the more diligent he was, the
more the Respondent and the lower courts have said he
should have done. And so he did X, Y, and Z; they say
you should have done A, B, and C.
But what I think is -- is significant here
is he was stuck with this lawyer. He tried to get rid of
the lawyer. The State filed motions saying you can't --
not only can you not fire him, you can't file a pro se
motion because you are represented by the lawyer. So all
Mr. Holland hears from the courts is that: You can't speak
to us and we can't speak to you. So he's stuck.
And then, of course, he's writing to the
Florida Supreme Court clerk begging for information, and
in fact in footnote 11 of the brief --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he never asked -- he
wrote to the clerk, but he never asked to be informed
when the judgment came down.
MR. SCHER: Well, what we have, Your Honor,
is if you look on page 11, in footnote 11, Mr. Holland
wrote a letter to the Florida Supreme Court clerk,
toward the end of which he says: "I'm not trying to get
on your nerves. I would just like to know exactly what
is happening with my case on appeal to the Supreme Court
of Florida."
So we certainly have in the clerk's office
-- and, again, that was on page 11, footnote 11. It's
also at the Joint Appendix at 146 to 147.
What we have here is Petitioner putting the
Florida Supreme Court on explicit notice that he is
having a problem with his lawyer, and further -- earlier
in that particular letter, he apologizes to the clerk,
saying: I'm sorry to pester you with these -- with these
requests, but if I had a lawyer who was responding to my
letters and who was listening to me and who would send
me the documentations, I wouldn't have to be bothering
you, but this is the situation that I'm in.
And then, of course, he tries to not only have
Mr. Collins substituted, but he asks to go pro se.
That's an extraordinary circumstance. And what makes it
even further, more extraordinary is the State coming in
and saying, no, you can't not only do that, but you are
not even allowed to file the paperwork asking to do
that. And, in fact, when Mr. Holland did file his pro se
petition in Federal district court, the State moved to
strike it because he was represented by -- by counsel.
And so --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is this case
different if the filing error -- I understand there was
a lot going on, but if the lawyer just miscalculated the
days and was off by one day, this case comes out the
other way in your view, right?
MR. SCHER: I think not only under my -- I
think, certainly, courts have -- have discussed this, that
that's -- that's just an unfortunate mere mistake. But I
think certainly we don't have that under the facts of
this case. There has never been any suggestion that
there was any miscalculation. We just have
complete abandonment by -- by the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't -- you say --
you say "complete abandonment." But this lawyer filed a
whole lot of things on behalf of this client. He missed
a very critical thing, the Federal habeas filing. But
it's not abandonment of a client in the sense of not
doing anything for the client.
So it goes back to my beginning question,
which is, where is the line drawn between the types of
negligence and what the circuit suggested, which is some
sort of intentional malfeasance?
MR. SCHER: And I didn't mean to suggest --
when I -- when I used the word "abandonment," I'm -- I'm
referring to, of course, in terms of abandonment with
regard to preserving -- enforcing the assurances that
Collins had made with respect to filing the petition.
And, of course, he also had told -- that --
Mr. Holland that he would inform him of the Florida
Supreme Court's decision, because that, of course, is
the triggering date.
We have Mr. Holland, who had already been --
you know, asked his lawyer, you know, please file
certain issues in my case and please keep me informed.
When those two promises and assurances were not kept by
the lawyer, Mr. Holland at that point has reason to be
concerned that the additional promise, which is, I will
file on time, was not going to be honored.
And so Mr. Holland embarked on a series of
diligent steps in order to get some information, but he
didn't know where to turn. And, then, of course, for
example, he writes to the clerk's office of the supreme
court. Sometimes they send him information; sometimes
they tell him to send a check.
He doesn't know. He is not getting any
consistency, and he's certainly not getting any response
from his attorney.
Then he files these motions in the State
supreme court, which are opposed by the State as
nullities because he is represented by counsel. He then
writes to the Florida Supreme Court saying, can you give
me the information about your Web site -- maybe I can have
some friends look up this case. Because, of course, he
knows at this point that there is a problem, and he
knows that the triggering date for the filing in the
Federal petition is the denial by the Florida Supreme
Court and the issuance of the mandate.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then you are -- you
seem, from what you just said, to be relying on a
distinction between paid counsel, who is just as
careless, and court-appointed counsel, because in the
one case the client had picked that attorney, and in the
other case, the client was given this attorney by the
State. So I think you're suggesting that the State has
some responsibility when it provides the counsel.
But before you said, no, your answer would
be the same if you were not making a distinction between
court-appointed and paid counsel.
MR. SCHER: I think the -- the distinction
that I was making -- I'm not saying that there's a
difference in terms of paid or appointed counsel, but
here where you have appointed counsel, I think one of
the extraordinary factors is the State coming in and --
and moving to strike these pro se pleadings, telling
Mr. -- sending a signal to Mr. Holland that you are
stuck with Collins, you can't speak to the supreme
court, and the supreme court can't speak to you.
Everything has to be funneled through your lawyer.
And, of course, the ironic thing is that, had
Mr. Holland been permitted to proceed pro se, he would
have gotten copied with the decision by the supreme
court of Florida. He would have gotten copied with the
mandate. And then he would have known when the mandate
issued.
And as we know, when he found out -- I mean,
the other extraordinary factor here is that when he
found out that this happened, he prepared that petition
that day and mailed it the next day. This is not
somebody who sat on his rights. He didn't start
complaining and writing letters and bemoaning his
situation. He took action, which also distinguishes
this case from a number of others.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess I understand
what the cases have said. I -- I have trouble
understanding why that should make a difference, why
that should be so pertinent, why he should be in better
shape than somebody who says: Look, I don't know
anything about this. I need a good lawyer. This is what
I get. I'm trusting you. Tell me what I should do, and I
leave it in your hands.
And that person is in somehow worse shape?
MR. SCHER: Well, because in Lawrence and in --
in Coleman this Court had -- had said that that made a
difference. In Lawrence, this Court had said Lawrence
was out of luck because it's not like he asked for
another lawyer or asked to proceed pro se. And so
Holland -- and so Lawrence was stuck.
I would respectfully reserve the remainder
of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Makar.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT D. MAKAR
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. MAKAR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case, we believe, is decided by one
principle --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I just ask just an
information question before you -- are the postconviction
lawyers in these cases that are appointed, are they
compensated by the State?
MR. MAKAR: Yes, they are.
JUSTICE STEVENS: They are.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And also, just in the
course of your argument, how -- how often do these
deadlines missed (a) in capital cases and (b) in AEDPA
cases? Do you have any statistics on that, or can you
tell us from your experience?
MR. MAKAR: I can tell you anecdotally the
attorneys that handle these cases in Florida, that the
equitable tolling issue comes up with some regularity.
I'm aware of three cases just in Jacksonville where I
live where the district judge there has had evidentiary
hearings and has looked at these equitable tolling issues.
In Florida, we have 394 individuals on death
row, and those cases are at various stages in the
litigation. So there is a certain amount of that that
goes on.
As to the noncapital cases, we know that
the system is flooded with habeas petitions. Obviously,
most of those are unrepresented. But there still is, in
those cases -- a study I saw recently, a 2007 study from
Vanderbilt University, that about 20 percent of those
cases are dismissed on statute of limitations grounds.
I'm inferring from that that there is some equitable
tolling action going on there, but the specific amount
we're not sure of. But certainly in both the capital
and noncapital area, this is an issue.
And if I could get to the standard here,
obviously, we're asking this Court to use the analysis
it has done in other cases to find that there is no
equitable tolling whatsoever. We --
JUSTICE BREYER: You mean to imply that
earthquake, fire, flood, mad postman burns mail truck,
et cetera?
MR. MAKAR: Precisely, Your Honor. I
mean --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, even if it's a terrible
earthquake, all these people are just out of luck?
MR. MAKAR: Well -- well, there are some,
certainly, safety valves if there's a natural disaster,
some --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why? Natural
disaster, yes, you said no equitable tolling, they're
out of luck?
MR. MAKAR: Well -- well, for example, the
Rules of Federal Procedure were recently amended to
allow for late filing when the courthouse is inaccessible.
JUSTICE BREYER: The statute?
MR. MAKAR: Precisely, Your Honor. And we
think --
JUSTICE BREYER: And, so, are you -- you
read the statute to say in some cases, you could do it.
If you're going to read it in some cases you can do it,
then I guess we're at a discussion of is this one of
those cases?
MR. MAKAR: Well, two responses. Number
one, we do not believe that equitable tolling was
intended by Congress under this complex statute of
limitations for all the reasons set out in our brief.
JUSTICE BREYER: So that's earthquake,
fire, flood, et cetera?
MR. MAKAR: Exactly. And it relates to the
same result, it seems -- to the same result as this Court
came to in Beggerly and Brockamp, where the -- if
Congress intended that to be the case, that's the case.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if the lawyer lies to
the client and the client says my time is running out,
have you filed my -- my Federal habeas petition, and the
lawyer says, yes, I filed it and here it is, and it has
a -- a forged date stamp on it? No equitable tolling
there?
MR. MAKAR: Well, under our position that
Congress intended to draw a very clear line, no. If
the -- if the Court assumes or decides there is some
sort of equitable tolling, then that's a different case,
and -- and in those situations where there's something
beyond the incompetence of the lawyer. And that's our rule.
If the Court decides there is equitable tolling or
assumes it exists, it has to be that the rule that the
incompetence of the postconviction counsel cannot be a
basis for relief.
That's what this Court has essentially said
in Lawrence and also in Coleman, and also what Congress
inferentially said in -- in 2254(i).
So, under those circumstances, here our rule
works because you don't get into those gradations of
negligence, you know, is it gross negligence? Well,
how gross? And the bottom line here in this particular case,
of course -- and the Court has asked these questions
here -- is what really happened in this case? All you
had was a Lawrence error, which was --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why should it matter?
It's certainly unusual. Isn't that what we are after, one,
is he diligent? Answer, yes, he has been diligent.
Two, is it extraordinary? I would think it
was fairly extraordinary that a person writes these letters
to counsel and so forth, then the -- the thing isn't
filed. Is that extraordinary or not?
Whether it was his fault, whether he himself
was kidnapped. I mean, maybe it wasn't the counsel's
fault. You can imagine a lot of circumstances. But the
question, I would think, is, is it extraordinary and is
it fair?
MR. MAKAR: Well, the answer -- is it
extraordinary? The answer is no. This is common --
JUSTICE BREYER: You mean counsel in Florida
often when -- miss deadlines and so forth when their
counsel -- when their client specifically says to them,
even a few weeks before and by mail several times,
please file such-and-such, is not extraordinary in
Florida?
MR. MAKAR: It's not just Florida; it's
nationwide there's -- there's problem with this complex
statute of limitations --
JUSTICE BREYER: We have a problem with
the bar, don't we, if -- if -- if the -- if --
(Laughter.)
MR. MAKAR: Well, there -- there has been no
bar discipline, to my knowledge, for missing a
deadline. And that -- and this Court has held that is not
an extraordinary circumstance, in Lawrence. The only --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I -- I didn't hear.
You say there has been discipline or there --
MR. MAKAR: To my knowledge, there has not
been for missing a deadline.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we or -- this would
probably be the Congress -- assuming some rule maker had
probably be the Congress, assuming some rulemaker had
authority to do this, would it make sense to say
that the State is going to be subject to equitable
tolling on a rather broad standard -- we're going to
give equitable tolling often -- unless the State has
attorney discipline procedures, so that this happens
only once and then the attorney can no longer practice
in the Federal courts?
MR. MAKAR: I suppose as a matter of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Obviously, what we're
looking for is some sort of a rule to keep the deadline,
and if we're going to accommodate your friend on the
other side, to have -- to have some rule about
exceptional -- exceptional cases.
MR. MAKAR: Well, perhaps something along
those lines legislatively might be -- be considered, but
-- but in the end, what we have here is garden-variety
attorney negligence miscalculating and missing a
deadline. The --
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't there at least one
additional thing here? Holland filed a request -- a pro
se request to be relieved of Collins's representation,
and that was rejected by the -- that was rejected by the
court because he was pro se. And therefore he couldn't
ask -- he couldn't file something himself?
MR. MAKAR: Well, let me clarify that,
because there's a misconception going on here. In the
Florida Supreme Court postconviction process, Collins
-- I'm sorry, Holland twice filed motions to remove
Collins. Importantly, Holland never asked to go pro se.
That is incorrect. If you look at Joint Appendix 134
and 149 -- those are the two pro se filings that Holland
made here. In both of those, he said: I'm having a
conflict with my lawyer. My lawyer won't do what I want
him to do; I want a new lawyer.
And that's all he said: I want a new lawyer.
He never --
JUSTICE ALITO: Was that denied on the
ground that he was pro se?
MR. MAKAR: The first motion was stricken.
It was then denied because he was represented by counsel
at that point. Keep in mind, this is in the State
postconviction process. This is not where the Federal
AEDPA deadline and so forth is being kicked about. In
fact, there is really no discussion whatsoever about
what the actual deadline to file this petition was at
all in the record.
The only time Holland asked to go pro se in
any court filing is after he filed the pro se petition
in Federal court -- the untimely one. He then shortly
thereafter filed an emergency motion to relieve Collins,
and --
JUSTICE ALITO: What I don't understand is,
how can a -- how can a client request to have -- to be
relieved of representation, if the client can't file
that motion pro se? I understand the other things, but
I don't understand why -- how -- how you can deny the
request to get rid of this lawyer? Unless he has to
have the lawyer file the motion for him?
(Laughter.)
MR. MAKAR: No, I think that certainly the
filing of the motion, I think perhaps it was -- it shouldn't
have been stricken the first time, but the court then on the
merits denied it the second time. And keep in mind -- I
forget who alluded to it -- this has been somewhat of an
unusual case from the outset, in that if you look at the
three Florida Supreme Court opinions that have been
issued in this case, it shows that at the first trial
Holland absented himself from the -- absented himself
from the trial and he had to watch on circuit --
closed-circuit TV because he was being very difficult.
And then in the second trial, we had two
Faretta hearings amounting to hundreds of pages in which
the Florida Supreme Court then said, well, he wants to
represent himself, but he can't conduct himself properly
and so forth. And also there's the issue of his -- his
-- there's a mental issue there as well, that he has
raised on appeal as well.
So the court -- the Florida courts are sort
of put in this difficult posture of saying, we want you
to have counsel, we need you to have counsel because we
want you to have effective representation, but then
throughout the process here it's been a difficult,
difficult number of decades, essentially, in this
situation. So I think it's an unfair characterization
to say that the Florida courts and also the Office of
Attorney General who -- who routinely moves to
strike these -- it's not because we're trying to deny
anyone's day in court. It's because you have a lawyer
and they have to speak to the lawyer, and the hybrid
representation is impermissible. So --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can we go back to
just --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The State -- the State
has no responsibility even though it made this
appointment? So you agree there's no difference,
whether it was paid counsel, somebody that the -- that
the defendant picked to represent him, and someone that
he just had to take because it's what the State gave him?
MR. MAKAR: Exactly. And -- and that's the
way the Court's decision in Coleman has allocated the
burdens and the risks. I mean, what the Court said was
okay, if it's a direct appeal where the State is charged
with that responsibility, that's one thing; but when
it's postconviction, it's shifted. The whole paradigm
and whole structure is flipped the other way, and you,
the Petitioner, bear the burden, and not the State.
This is important under AEDPA, because AEDPA --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Under -- on direct appeal,
if counsel conducted himself this way, the State
would -- he'd have to get relief because the State
would have the burden, but not -- not on collateral?
Is that what you're saying?
MR. MAKAR: Sure. On direct appeal, if the
lawyer is deemed to be ineffective, then that would be a
constitutional error, and that would be subject to some
sort of relief, but it flips in the postconviction
stage, as this Court has held in Coleman.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I'm
concerned about some of the situations Justice Breyer
mentions, you know, if there is an earthquake, a plane
crash, but the law seems to be focusing on other things
when it's talking about extraordinary circumstances.
Like here, we're talking about how diligent he was in
pursuing his lawyer. There seems to be a disconnect
there.
I don't know why -- I mean, assuming we're
going to have, for argument, equitable tolling, what
should we be looking at? The unusual nature of the
situation that comes up, or whether you've got a pesky
client?
MR. MAKAR: Well, I think two responses
there: Obviously, we believe that attorney incompetence
or so forth cannot be a basis for equitable tolling.
These other situations about natural disasters and
hypotheticals where some, you know, very unusual, bizarre
situation comes in that's external to the
attorney-client relationship, perhaps those -- those
could be considered.
But we believe that the Congress, through its
purpose in enacting this statute of limitations, a
complex one that has exceptions, that -- that is
designed to alleviate the burdens and delays -- its intent
was not to allow equitable tolling, because we --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it
legislated against the background of cases like Irwin
that stated the general proposition is, unless Congress
says otherwise, there is equitable tolling.
MR. MAKAR: But that can be rebutted. That
can be rebutted, and we believe has been rebutted by the
record here, which shows that these are precisely the
kind of delays that Congress intended to avoid by having
a strict 1-year statute of limitations, that there's
burdens put on -- not just the States but the courts --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- what I worry about
is that you're confusing the -- or perceive --
confusing the fact that lawyer negligence may not be the
type of situation that Congress was looking at. With
the hypotheticals that Justice Breyer listed, which are
a different kind of situation, and you are trying to
pigeonhole both and say Congress didn't intend for both
to be covered. And yet you suggested a little later
that they may have intended what Justice Breyer was
thinking about. I -- I don't see anything in the
structure of the statute that would preclude what
Justice Breyer listed.
MR. MAKAR: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what can we read to
suggest that -- forget about the lawyer malfeasance;
let's talk just about equitable tolling
MR. MAKAR: Sure. Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- in its traditional
sense. Most of the cases in equitable tolling, by the way,
have to do with court errors.
MR. MAKAR: Sure. What we're suggesting is
that under the structure of the Brockamp decision, what
the Court looked at there to determine when there is no
equitable tolling intended by Congress, that here
likewise there is no equitable tolling, and as the Court
held in Brockamp, the fact that there may be unfairness
in individual cases was the price Congress was willing
to pay, the tradeoff it was willing to allow, to have a
habeas system that was functioning.
Now, assuming that position is rejected by
the Court or the Court assumes equitable tolling, the
next question is what should be allowed. And we believe
it has to be exceptionally narrow. And certainly in
this case -- and this case is all about attorney
negligence or attorney gross negligence -- those --
those sort of circumstances are not enough. And --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why could you not say
here -- I mean, the key sentence, I take it, is the
Eleventh Circuit and it says: "No allegation of lawyer
negligence or failure to meet the standard of care" --
none -- without "proof, bad faith, dishonesty, mental
impairment" on the part of the lawyer, could ever
qualify.
Now, that's -- so we just say, no, no, that
isn't so. Sometimes it could, when combined with other
circumstances. And then go back and let them -- I don't
know what this particular individual Petitioner's prior
conduct has been. I understand the problems that you
have. But do you -- I guess you're going to say no to
this, but -- but it's a little hard to see why you couldn't
have a narrow standard but just not rule out the
possibility that under certain circumstances, just
negligence or even less -- maybe the lawyer wasn't even
at fault; maybe he got kidnapped. You know, I mean, there
are odd things that happen in life. And just say go look for
this; see if it's truly extraordinary, if it's fair, if
he was diligent. What about that?
MR. MAKAR: Well, we agree with the Eleventh
Circuit standard to the extent it says, you know, that this
sort of attorney negligence, gross negligence, incompetence,
is not enough. Where we differ from the Eleventh Circuit
is we're concerned, based upon our pragmatic day-in,
day-out handling of these cases, that when you say
dishonesty, well -- or a conflict -- that those concepts
can be conflated into things that they are not,
particularly when these communications between lawyer
and client are outside the State's view. We are not
privy to what goes on between lawyer and client. The
lawyer says, I will do this, says it verbally or maybe
even in writing. We don't know about that. We're not
privy to all that.
And it creates this potential, when we allow
the standard, as the Eleventh Circuit held -- we allow the
standard to gravitate away from its core purpose and
allows it to be used to sort of game the system in a way
to gain an advantage. That's why we are concerned about
any degree of attorney misconduct or behavior because it
could easily --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have any idea,
before the Eleventh Circuit announced its standard, how
many habeas petitions were tolled by district courts in
that -- in your -- in Florida, on the basis of equitable
tolling, that -- that they permitted petitions to go
forward after the statute of limitations?
MR. MAKAR: Unfortunately, I'm not aware of
any data on that. There are not that many.
JUSTICE BREYER: So would there be -- I
mean, what I'm actually worried about is not a lawyer
being kidnapped. I'm actually worried what can
happen in a person's life. He gets deathly ill. His wife
gets sick. Something happens to the children. Some very
unusual thing comes along at the last minute, and all the
plans go awry. And to have a little bit of flexibility
in this statute to take care of those very unusual human
circumstances seems a reasonable reading of it. But you
say it's not because --
MR. MAKAR: Well, we say it's not because
Congress intended not to have equitable tolling, and
then to the extent it did, it could have drafted
something along the lines of what's in 2263, which is
the next chapter -- it's the companion chapter that says
instead of having 365 days with no equitable tolling,
you can have 180 days and 30 days for good cause if
there's a deadline missed --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're not -- you're
not worried about Justice Breyer's case of the really
extraordinary circumstance where everybody would say,
well, that's -- you know, we understand. You're
worried that if you create an exception, that all sorts
of other stuff will come in. And so why isn't the answer
to that concern that you've got an unusual case here
where you do have the client saying, do this, do this,
do this, and the lawyer doesn't?
MR. MAKAR: Well, under these facts --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's very hard to
argue against -- against equity, against equitable
tolling. But at the same time, I think you do need a
constraining principle that it doesn't do away with the
statute of limitations. So why isn't what we have here
good enough?
MR. MAKAR: Meaning the Eleventh Circuit's
standard?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Meaning the fact
that you have got a client who is constantly telling the
lawyer, do this, you know, get it done; doesn't get the
judgment. And, you know, it's not just your run-of-the-mill
case where the lawyer happens to miss a deadline.
MR. MAKAR: Well, that goes to the issue
that -- of not -- of diligence, of course, which is not
the issue we're looking at. We're looking at the
extraordinary circumstances, not the diligence.
Extraordinary circumstance has to be something that --
attributable to the lawyer or something along those lines.
We're not -- we'll concede diligence for the
moment and say here it's what the lawyer did, as
Lawrence held. He missed the deadline. In fact,
this case -- you know, Lawrence, obviously -- it was 364
days before they even filed the State postconviction motion,
and the lawyer in that case wasn't appointed for 300 days,
and the State postconvictions process was sort of in
disarray. And all those things that the Court in
Lawrence said are not supportable for equitable tolling
apply equally here.
The only difference in this case is this
allegation about the -- the lawyer didn't communicate
with his client. Well, if that becomes the governing rule,
all is lost, because attorney communication with client
is perhaps even more amorphous a concept. It could be
based on verbal representations and so forth. So we are
very concerned that it not slip into that sphere where
it can be easily manipulated for the advantage of
getting some sort of delay.
And as I say, the analysis here of
purpose of AEDPA, structure of AEDPA, and the
burdens -- as I say, the burdens are important to the
State and to the court system. I was looking at that
recent study, the 2007 study, that seemed to suggest
that AEDPA is -- basically, when these cases are being
filed in Federal district court, it has taken a year and
a half to 2, 3 years for them to be resolved, and in
this case keep in mind it took 18 months in the district
court, 18 months in the Eleventh Circuit, and then
further.
But that's allowing the invocation of this
doctrine, not just in this case. We're worried about the
noncapital context as well, that that will somehow put
an end to the importance of what Congress enacted.
There is a pre-AEDPA mentality out there,
I'm afraid. And it's natural. It's understandable.
We're all human. There's a pre-AEDPA mentality that
there must be a remedy. There must be some equity done.
And I think that sort of undergirds why perhaps most of
the circuits have either assumed -- I think 11 have
either assumed or adopted some sort of equitable
tolling.
I think they are waiting for this Court,
which has left the question open to provide guidance on
that issue, and we suggest that either there be no
equitable tolling or that, if there is to be equitable
tolling, on the circumstances of this case it has to be
extreme attorney misconduct or incompetence, and that
just simply is not established on this record.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- why isn't it
extreme attorney incompetence to miss a deadline? I
mean, you either miss it or you don't. It's not going
to get -- why doesn't that qualify as extreme attorney
misconduct?
MR. MAKAR: Well, I guess the short answer,
of course, is the courts have said no, that's not
enough, we need something that's truly extreme,
something far from just missing a deadline. We probably
all know lawyers who have missed deadlines. We all know
lawyers who haven't communicated with their clients.
Those things are ordinary, run-of-the-mill, happen-every-day
sort of events. It has to be something beyond that.
It has to be something that is truly extreme for
the exception to kick in.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, give me
an example.
MR. MAKAR: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's worse than
missing the deadline.
MR. MAKAR: I mean, the example I've tossed
about in our conversations is -- is to say, well, what if
the postconviction lawyer is bribed by the victim's family
to not file something on time? I mean, oh gosh, that
strikes us all as just -- that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we don't --
that's not negligence.
MR. MAKAR: No. No. But the question I
thought you were asking is, you know, how extreme can
we think about a situation, and -- and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you're -- it
has to be criminal behavior?
MR. MAKAR: It has to be something beyond
just attorney incompetence. What the -- that's a
concept that we can get our arms around, and we
certainly get into this line-drawing of, well, is a
failure to communicate three or four times enough? Or a
failure to have a letter go to the client in response to
his request -- is that enough?
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask another
question? It doesn't go to the merits, but I'm really
curious. The lawyers selected for postconviction work,
which I understand now are compensated by the State, are
they selected from the same panels as the lawyers that
represent defendants generally and who are appointed by
the State in criminal matters?
MR. MAKAR: Well, there's a collateral counsel
registry list.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is it --
MR. MAKAR: There's actually what they call
CCRC. There's actually State lawyers around the State who
provide this, and then there's a registry list as well.
And they have to meet certain standards. Chapter 27 of
our Florida Statutes set out the standards that these
counsel have to meet.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the collateral counsel
registry is a different group of lawyers than are
generally appointed in criminal cases?
MR. MAKAR: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I see.
MR. MAKAR: Well, Your Honors, if there's
no further questions, we ask that the court affirm the
Eleventh Circuit below, either on the basis that there's
no equitable tolling or that on this record there's
no basis for it under the attorney incompetence
standard.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Scher, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF TODD G. SCHER
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. SCHER: I just have a couple of brief
points. First, to clarify, the Respondent argued that
Mr. Holland never asked to proceed pro se in the State
court, and that's just incorrect, and it's flatly
contradicted by their brief on page 43, where they
write: "Holland moved to replace Collins with another
attorney (whom Holland presumably thought would raise
any issues Holland desired) or to proceed pro se if
substitute counsel could not be appointed."
And I think, again, going back to one of
the things that Justice Breyer was discussing with
Respondent's counsel, was I think that that -- the
problem with the Eleventh Circuit's analysis is this
categorical exclusion. Equitable tolling and
extraordinary circumstances have to be considered as
a -- consider all the circumstances, and so to
categorically exclude this one particular area,
we submit, is what the problem is here.
And we also do have, contrary to what
the Respondent contended --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you would say --
it is -- you could categorically excuse ordinary
negligence as opposed to gross negligence?
MR. SCHER: That's where courts, including
this Court, have drawn the line. That seems to be the
floor, but, you know, obviously, when you get into the
particular circumstances of a case, that's where a
categorical rule excluding a particular type of area
beyond just garden-variety neglect -- really, that's
the problem here, is that was antithetical to the
notion of equity.
And I just wanted to point out briefly that
this record does avail itself of numerous instances where
Mr. Holland had alleged that the attorney lied to him. JA
-- in the Joint Appendix on 170, Mr. Holland writes that
Mr. Collins lied to him. On the Joint Appendix on 194,
that Mr. Collins deceived him and misled him --
JUSTICE ALITO: What were the lies?
MR. SCHER: -- about when the petition was
going to be --
JUSTICE ALITO: What was -- give me an example
of a lie that he told him?
MR. SCHER: These were in the context of Mr.
Collins telling Mr. Holland that he would protect his
Federal habeas rights. Those --
JUSTICE ALITO: Doesn't that go without
saying, that every attorney -- and every attorney presumably
undertakes not to miss the statute of limitations? Is
there a difference between the attorney who simply says
nothing and the attorney who says, yes, I'm not going to
miss the statute of limitations?
MR. SCHER: I think it makes it more --
JUSTICE ALITO: That's a lie?
MR. SCHER: I think it makes it makes
it more extraordinary. And what makes that situation
even yet more extraordinary is where the client has
tried to rid himself of this lawyer on a number of
occasions or to go pro se, precisely because he has been
experiencing these -- these -- lack of trust and other
problems in terms of these deceptions from his lawyer,
so he was really hamstrung by the time that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If I'm worried --
MR. SCHER: -- it was too late.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If I'm worried about
the open-ended nature of what you're asking for, how --
how would you state the test you would like in the most
restrictive terms?
MR. SCHER: I think in terms -- I think the
test would be appropriate, what Justice Breyer
articulated, which is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Hurricane or
kidnapping?
MR. SCHER: No, no.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, the different
one.
(Laughter.)
MR. SCHER: No, the other test, the other
test. We need a hurricane exception in Florida.
But in terms of the Eleventh Circuit was
incorrect in excluding this particular type of attorney
misconduct and negligence because that's antithetical
to equity, and so I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What type -- the
problem comes up when you say "this type of attorney
negligence."
What is your test? What type of --
MR. SCHER: I certainly think, given the
unique facts here, we have, again, the confluence of
circumstances. We have the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I know your test
will mean your client wins.
MR. SCHER: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But, I mean, can you
articulate it more -- because I'm very concerned that if
you start saying, well, you can forgive an inequitable case,
every time a case comes up, you're going to -- there's
going to be sympathy for the client. The lawyer goofed.
Of course, you don't want to penalize the
client, but Congress obviously had something more in
mind.
MR. SCHER: Well, but certainly -- but the other
part of the test for equitable tolling is diligence, and
I think, when -- when one looks at the -- at the body of
case law that has developed since 1997 on the issue of
equitable tolling and AEDPA, the vast majority of these
cases are disposed on the fact that the Petitioner is
indiligent.
Here, of course, the Respondent, if I heard
correctly, is now conceding that the Petitioner was
diligent. And so there are certainly other ways to avoid
even having to get to the question of exceptional
circumstances; for example, just looking to the
diligence prong.
But here, where you have a failure to
notify, you have the failure to heed the instructions from
a client, you have the client saying you've lied to
me, the client telling the State and the Federal courts
this lawyer is not my agent anymore, I don't want him, I
don't trust him, he has misled me, he has deceived me --
all of those factors certainly go to a consideration of
whether equitable tolling should be warranted, and the
problem here is that the Eleventh Circuit said no,
categorically no.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:54 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
22:13,15 50:2,9 1:14 16:17 23:2,11 bear 36:6
23:1 Alito's 7:16 9:12 Appendix 21:7 assured 5:18 Beggerly 29:11
53:9 43:23 11:12 17:23 23:23 behalf 1:15,18
5:10 apply 17:7 43:21 32:17 35:11 22:16 26:14
allocated 35:25 26:21 43:17 43:25 45:9,12 46:17
18:7 40:25 41:1 35:20 49:15 50:3,3,5 39:10
27:22 allowed 8:19 approached 20:1 50:6 51:11,15 believed 17:3
32:20 alluded 34:14 49:9 attributable bewildered
amorphous 44:1 argued 10:2 attributed 8:23 beyond 5:23
13:4 amounting 34:22 argument 1:12 avail 49:14 46:18 49:10
answer 7:15 arms 46:20 awry 41:21 body 52:9
15:8 19:10 31:1,2 42:13 articulated 51:1 bothering 21:15
aside 8:6 B bottom 30:10
27:2
36:7,7
52:11
49:11 26:6,7 30:11 20:3 22:20 30:14 31:3,12
33:4,22 48:9 35:16 39:24 36:19 38:8,12
16:21 assumed 45:1,2 based 40:15 44:2 20:19 29:6 48:7
35:2 36:2 assumes 13:25 basically 44:11 48:11
29:21 30:1 39:9 basis 4:5 30:3 briefly 49:13
29:13
39:4 case-by-case 40:12,14 41:1,8 52:22,23 completely 5:5
38:3 44:8 48:20 49:9 circuits 12:9,11 34:20 concede 43:12
categorically 12:12,14 13:4,7 Coleman 8:16,18 conceded 15:21
certain 23:10 circumstance Collins 4:22,24 concern 42:14
39:18 9:23 12:25 13:2 circumstances 25:2 33:2,4,25 concur 12:5
14:21,24 15:1 8:8 9:21 10:4 48:12 49:17,18 conduct 4:1
22:8,10 23:22 17:13,17,24 Collins's 4:1,8 conducted 36:9
7:25 30:15 34:10 36:22 39:14,24 combination 6:1 conflict 33:8
10:1,8 39:11 46:21 40:5 41:23 43:9 combined 39:23 40:17
14:9,10 51:18 52:7,16 45:8 48:21,22 come 18:2 42:13 conflicted 9:16
15:12,14 53:1 49:8 51:20 comes 4:18 22:5 confluence 4:3
18:24,25 cetera 28:6 29:8 52:18 27:7 37:4,11 8:12 10:11 19:1
21:3 chapter 15:9 claim 11:19 14:7 41:20 51:15 51:19
23:10 42:4,4 47:13 14:16,18 52:2 confusing 38:5,6
characterization claims 11:19 coming 21:20 Congress 29:5
26:17 35:9 clarify 32:25 24:24 29:12,20 30:5
characterized 48:8 commit 8:10 31:24,25 37:14
34:15 4:1 clear 29:20 common 31:2 37:21 38:1,7,10
39:12,12 charged 36:2 clearly 6:16 communicate 39:2,5 42:1
43:5,15 check 23:20 clerk 20:18,21,25 18:2,3 43:23 44:20 52:5
44:14 Chief 3:3,8 22:2 21:11 46:22 consider 48:22
45:8 49:8 25:19 26:11,15 clerk's 21:5 communicated consideration
53:7 36:18 37:19 23:18 45:21 53:1
42:8,18 43:1 client 3:22 5:18 communication considered
13:9 46:16 48:3 19:8,8,9,15,17 communicatio... 37:13 48:21
15:8,9,9 50:18,20 51:2,5 19:25 20:1,3 40:19 consistency
26:21 51:14,21,24 22:16,18,19 companion 42:4 23:22
53:6 24:13,14 29:14 compensated consistent 7:21
children 41:19 29:14 31:5 34:3 26:22 47:3 constantly 43:2
29:2 chunk 17:22 34:4 37:5 40:20 competent 7:3 constitutional
37:20 circuit 4:1 9:12 40:21 42:15 complaining 11:15 36:15
39:5 9:24 10:16 43:2,24,25 25:16 constraining
16:22,23 17:4,5 data 41:14 5:9 6:3 33:12 dismiss 15:7
20:18,25 21:3,9 day 3:14 17:3 designed 37:17 distinction 6:18
24:2,8 25:3,3,8 35:13 despite 6:3 distinguish 7:17
32:23 33:2,23 day-in 40:15 differ 40:14 15:2 16:23
11:3 12:21 43:19 44:9,12 42:7 43:5,14 50:5 doctrine 44:18
16:9 44:15 45:4 45:12,19 46:5 different 9:3 documentations
47:22 48:10 deadlines 27:2 22:3 29:22 38:9 21:15
courthouse deal 13:8 15:2 difficult 34:20 don't 14:2 46:11
16:4 courts 5:25 6:10 dealt 15:3 diligence 7:11 drafted 42:2
24:1,11 6:24 7:23 8:9 death 27:11 10:15 11:20 draw 6:19 7:24
10:10 11:8 deathly 41:18 17:13,14,15 9:14 20:4 29:20
26:11 13:13 19:4 20:7 decades 35:8 43:7,9,12 52:8 drawing 12:22
31:3,5 20:15 22:8 32:7 deceived 49:18 52:19 drawn 6:8 22:21
35:5,5,21 35:3,10 38:3 52:25 diligent 19:5 49:6
47:7,15 41:9 45:17 49:5 deception 12:20 20:6 23:16 due 11:20 12:4
48:3,15 52:23 deceptions 50:16 30:16,16 36:23 D.C 1:8 12:13
53:6 Court's 23:6 decided 13:25 40:10 52:16
13:24 crash 36:21 38:25 disasters 37:9 28:10 29:7
15:7 create 12:2 42:12 deemed 13:1 discipline 31:16 36:20
20:17 created 11:12 36:14 31:20 32:5 easily 41:6 44:4
23:1,4,6 creates 40:25 defendant 35:22 disconnect 36:24 effective 35:6
24:4 25:5 crime 15:22 defendants 7:2 discovered 11:19 effectively 13:8
30:11 43:7 criminal 7:2 47:5 discussed 9:24 either 45:1,2,6
52:4,14 46:17 47:6,18 defines 9:15 22:8 45:13 47:23
4:8 5:1 6:2 curious 47:2 delay 44:5 discussion 29:1 elements 15:21
7:19 delays 37:17 38:1 33:19 Eleven 12:11
11:3,17 D deliberate 12:17 dishonest 9:16 Eleventh 4:1
13:17 d 1:17 2:5 3:1 denial 24:7 dishonesty 39:19 9:12,24 10:16
15:2 12:8 26:13 denied 3:11 5:6,7 40:17 17:21 39:17
41:1,8 evidentiary 27:9 17:12,16,24 Federal 4:10 5:1 floodgates 14:25
44:15 exactly 19:11 18:16 19:5 5:2,11 9:5 15:2 floor 6:23 49:7
48:19 21:2 29:9 35:24 21:19,20 24:24 16:20,23 17:5 Florida 1:6,15,18
53:3 example 4:7,22 25:12 30:17,18 19:16 21:24 3:4 15:20 16:22
exceptional 9:21 20:13 21:22,23 focusing 36:21
10:21 11:1 12:16 32:13,13 faced 13:18 32:24 33:20 footnote 20:19,24
12:10 52:17 fact 4:9 5:2,8,10 34:4,8 46:9 21:6
27:7 exceptionally 6:3 12:21 13:19 filed 3:16 5:11 forged 29:17
28:3 39:11 16:11 18:3 16:19 20:12 forget 34:14
29:4,17 exceptions 11:8 20:19 21:23 22:15 29:15,16 38:18
32:2,4 11:10 12:2,6 33:19 38:6 39:4 30:20 32:20 forgive 52:1
37:16 43:1,14 52:12 33:3,23,25 forgot 3:22,22
39:2,3 exclude 48:23 factor 25:12 43:16 44:12 forth 30:19 31:4
41:10 42:1 excluding 49:9 factors 6:25 8:13 files 23:24 33:18 34:25
43:20 51:11 9:24 10:20 filing 11:12 17:5 37:8 44:2
47:24 exclusion 17:22 24:24 53:1 22:3,17 23:3 forward 41:12
52:8,11 48:20 facts 6:6,6 13:9 24:6 28:19 found 11:23
excuse 49:3 22:10 42:17 33:23 34:11 13:20 25:11,13
44:24 exercised 7:11 factual 11:18 find 4:4 7:3 13:21 Fourteen 18:14
51:13 exist 13:14 fail 4:17 28:2 18:15
experience 27:4 6:1,1 18:2,3,12 finds 7:4 free 8:19 9:1
expired 3:14 fair 7:18 30:25 29:8 frivolous 14:18
explanation fairly 30:18 7:13 18:25 funneled 25:4
explanations 39:19 48:8 44:16 47:22
40:12 42:2 far 45:19 flipped 36:5 48:5
extraordinary fault 30:21,23 flood 28:5 29:8 game 41:3
6:24 32:16 14:13 30:9,10 he'd 36:10 35:15 intending 12:23
39:13 40:13 highly 7:4 imply 28:4 intent 4:13 37:17
37:21 grossly 7:8 holdings 11:22 44:20 9:16 12:23
grounds 27:20 4:9 5:8,10 6:2,4 36:7 44:8 intentionality
guess 25:19 29:1 16:15,18 19:5 33:4 interrupt 7:20
16:2 guidance 45:5 21:23 23:5,8,12 inaccessible involved 11:22
20:20 23:15 25:1,6 28:19 involving 13:11
35:18 36:8 H 26:8 32:20 33:3 including 49:5 ironic 25:5
habeas 3:15 5:11 33:4,6,22 34:18 incompetence irresponsible
46:1 49:22 27:16 29:15 49:15,16,25 40:13 45:9,12 Irwin 37:20
51:18 half 18:22 44:13 8:14 10:1 incompetent 7:8 issue 13:5 14:8
33:4,22 50:17 Honor 17:10 48:10 51:11 17:19 27:7,24
39:24 handle 27:6 20:23 28:7,21 indiligent 52:13 34:25 35:1 43:6
41:11,21 handled 11:25 honored 16:20 individual 9:24 43:8 45:6 52:10
47:1 50:2 handling 40:16 23:14 39:5,25 issued 3:12 5:2
53:1 hands 26:1 Honors 47:21 individuals 17:4 18:1 25:10
27:14 41:18 human 41:22 ineffective 36:14 issues 15:17,18
43:6 happened 4:8,18 44:23 inequitable 52:1 15:19 23:10
10:21 25:13 30:12 hurricane 51:2,9 30:6 it's 15:6 17:18
15:1 happening 21:3 hybrid 35:14 inferring 27:21 42:4
23:14 happens 32:5 hypotheticals inform 23:5 I'm 27:8,21
28:25 41:19 43:5 37:10 38:8 information 50:18,20 51:25
33:1 happen-every-... 16:15 20:18
40:2 45:13 45:22 I 23:16,19 24:3 J
49:21 hard 40:3 42:18 idea 41:7 26:20 JA 49:15
52:2,3 hear 3:3 31:19 ignorant 20:1 informed 5:8 Jacksonville
hearing 9:7 ill 10:19 41:18 initial 7:16 Jimenez 12:7
9:25 13:1 43:14 impermissible 39:2 42:1 5:13,18,21 6:6
7:1,12,16 key 15:13,19 22:4,15 23:9,12 22:21 29:20 27:5 28:7,11,17
8:2,3,5 9:2 39:16 25:4,24 26:7 30:10 49:6 28:21 29:3,9,19
10:2 kick 45:25 29:13,16,24 lines 10:13 32:15 31:1,9,15,21
11:5 12:9 kicked 33:18 33:8,8,9,10 42:3 43:11 32:8,14,25
13:10 kidnapped 30:22 34:7,8 35:13,14 line-drawing 33:14 34:10
14:2,5 40:7 41:17 36:14,24 38:6 46:21 35:24 36:13
kidnapping 51:3 38:18 39:17,20 link 14:24 37:6,23 38:16
kind 38:1,9 40:6,19,21,22 list 47:8,12 38:20,24 40:11
17:6,16 knew 19:9,20 41:16 42:16 listed 38:8,15 41:13,25 42:17
know 6:22 11:7 43:3,5,11,13,17 listening 21:14 42:24 43:6
14:19,23 15:18 43:23 46:8 litigation 27:13 45:16 46:3,6,13
20:3,20 19:15,16 20:2 50:13,16 52:3 little 7:5 19:21,23 46:18 47:7,10
24:9 21:2 23:9,9,17 52:24 38:11 40:3 47:19,21
26:11,15 23:21 25:11,23
27:15 30:9 8:20,20 26:21 live 27:9 making 24:18,21
36:20 37:1,10 45:20,21 47:2,4 longer 32:6 malfeasance
30:14 39:25 40:7,12 47:11,17 look 7:25 10:7 9:17 22:23
40:23 42:11 learned 3:14 14:7,19 15:4,24 38:18
33:12 43:3,4,15 45:20
35:16,18 45:20 46:14 left 45:5 25:23 33:5 mandate 3:12
49:7 51:21 legislated 37:20 34:15 40:8 18:2 24:8 25:9
38:4,8,12 knowledge 31:16legislatively looked 14:16 25:9
31:21 32:15 15:10 27:10 manipulated
41:7,15 known 25:9 letter 20:25 39:1 44:4
43:1 knows 24:5,6 21:11 46:23 looking 32:10 March 1:9
46:1,4,11 letters 21:14 37:3 38:7 43:8 matter 1:11
47:9 L 25:16 30:18 43:8 44:9 52:18 30:14 32:8 53:9
48:3 lack 17:25 50:15 let's 13:2 38:19 looks 52:9 matters 47:6
49:2,19 large 16:13 17:22 lie 12:19 49:23 lose 8:9 McNally 13:11
50:2,9,18 late 28:19 50:19 50:9 lost 43:25 13:15,25
51:2,5 latest 11:11 lied 49:15,17 lot 7:3 10:10 19:9 mean 7:20 9:8
Laughter 14:1 52:22 19:12 22:4,16 10:4 13:3 17:17
31:14 34:9 51:7 lies 29:13 49:19 30:23 19:10 22:24
34:13 8:15,18,22 limitation 11:10 28:16 41:16 45:13
17:12 26:3,5,5 limitations 3:14 46:1,6,9 51:22
14:12 31:18 43:14,15 29:6 31:11 mad 28:5 Meaning 42:24
43:20 37:15 38:2 mail 28:5 31:6 43:1
lawyer 3:20,21 41:12 42:22 mailed 25:14 means 18:16
31:19,23 5:14 7:4,5,7,8 50:4,7 majority 15:8 meet 39:18 47:13
9:6 10:18,18,19 line 6:8 7:16,21 52:11 47:15
33:14,25 34:5,8 nerves 21:2 4:23,24 percent 27:19
48:12 new 33:9,10 order 5:3 17:8 person 26:2
8:10,12 moves 35:11 Nixon 15:20 23:16 30:18
22:9 moving 16:13 noncapital 15:9 ordinary 11:6 person's 41:18
N 2:1,1 3:1 notify 6:2 52:21 outside 40:20 petition 3:15 5:7
47:1 named 13:11 notion 49:12 5:9,11 6:4
44:14 31:10 25:18 29:3 35:8 page 2:2 20:24 29:15 33:20,23
natural 28:12,14 50:13 21:6 48:11 49:20
necessarily 4:20 O palpably 15:5 17:25 21:8 36:6
necessary 11:8 obviously 27:16 paperwork petitioners 8:19
need 15:6 16:25 43:15 49:7 52:5 paradigm 36:4 Petitioner's
42:20 45:18 19:6 50:14 52:8 17:15 39:25
41:5 45:9 neglect 49:10 odd 40:8 8:13 10:8 11:14 41:9,11
51:12 negligence 3:20 office 21:5 23:18 12:5 13:5,9,9 picked 24:13
6:9,11,15,15,19 oh 16:4 18:20 16:10 17:14,22 pigeonhole 38:10
42:7 43:14 9:13,15,25 10:5 okay 36:2 39:25 48:23 plans 41:21
13:1,6 14:13,13 omissions 8:22 49:8,9 51:11 pleadings 24:25
45:19 30:9,9 32:17 ones 19:3 40:19 23:10 26:16
38:6 39:13,13 open 12:13 15:1 pattern 4:6 31:7
22:9 40:13 46:12 open-ended penalize 52:4 23:12 24:5
31:24,25 45:19 20:3 22:20 regarding 15:18 2:6 14:25 20:7
15:19 17:21 20:5 39:10 45:5 47:17 52:14
26:20 21:10 24:5 46:13 47:1 regularity 27:7 Respondent's
33:2,17 31:10,12 48:19 52:17 rejected 32:22,22 48:18
43:16 48:24 49:11 questioning 7:16 39:8 responding
47:2 51:15 53:3 7:21 relates 29:9 21:13
50:16 30:11 47:22 37:12 23:22 46:23
37:25 promise 23:13 raises 15:4 remaining 48:4 29:10
promises 23:11 reach 15:13 remains 12:13 reviews 14:14
properly 34:24 really 7:8 10:4,18 remove 33:3 right 9:10,19
protect 49:25 49:10 50:17 replace 48:12 17:5 22:6
50:3 45:5 47:12 reasons 29:6 representation risks 36:1
24:16 REBUTTAL 2:7 representations 26:11 36:18
purpose 37:15 37:24,24 20:14 21:25 46:4,11,16 48:3
20:13 44:19 record 3:19,21 requests 21:13 routinely 35:11
24:25 putting 21:8 4:23 15:25 reserve 26:9 row 27:12
26:7 32:20 33:21 37:25 resolved 44:13 rule 7:11 29:24
33:4,6,13 Q 45:10 47:24 respect 12:4 23:3 30:1,7 31:24
34:5 qualify 39:21 49:14 respectfully 26:9 32:10,12 40:4
50:14 45:14 reference 15:11 respects 10:15 43:24 49:9
17:3 51:18,23 52:7 situation 8:15 47:14 stuck 20:11,16
45:22 26:13 38:7,9 46:15 state 3:11 4:8 6:2 44:10,10
20:12 see 15:11 38:13 25:23 35:21 36:2,6,9,10 21:18
24:2 40:3,9 47:20 somewhat 34:14 43:16,18 44:9 such-and-such
35:4 seen 18:25 19:3,4 sorry 4:12 21:12 47:3,6,11,11 31:7
42:15 selected 47:2,4 33:3 48:9 50:22 sufficient 6:12
52:1,22 send 3:22 21:14 sort 19:9 22:23 52:23 suggest 9:8
21:1 sending 25:1 35:3 36:16 States 1:1,12 44:10 45:6
29:14,16 sense 22:18 32:1 39:14 40:13 38:3 suggested 22:22
37:22 38:22 41:3 43:18 44:5 State's 40:20 38:11
40:12,22 sentence 17:7 44:25 45:2,23 statistics 27:3 suggesting 9:3
42:4 50:5 39:16 sorts 11:8 42:12 statute 3:13 11:2 24:15 38:24
series 23:15 SOTOMAYOR 11:6,7,9 16:24 suggestion 22:11
10:25 11:5 set 8:6 29:6 47:14 4:16 9:2,10,19 28:20,24 29:5 suggests 3:21
18:5,9 sets 19:2 10:2 22:14 31:11 37:15 supportable
19:12 seven 13:4 35:16 38:4,17 38:2,14 41:12 43:20
4:6 shifted 36:4 speak 20:15,16 50:4,7 32:8
5:17 short 45:16 25:2,3 35:14 Statutes 47:14 supreme 1:1,12
6:10,22 shortly 33:24 specific 27:22 statutory 11:24 3:11 6:2 11:16
8:4,8 show 4:19 5:2 specifically 5:3 steps 23:16 16:22 17:4 19:6
10:7 shows 3:19,23 31:5 STEVENS 13:24 20:18,25 21:3,9
12:4,11,21 4:23 34:17 specifics 7:25 14:2,5,11 26:19 23:6,18,25 24:2
13:16,23 37:25 spends 7:3 26:24 46:25 24:7 25:2,3,7
15:14 sick 41:19 sphere 44:3 47:9,16,20 33:2 34:16,23
16:1,2,9 side 7:15 32:12 stage 36:17 stress 16:3 sure 7:15 20:4
18:8 signal 25:1 stages 27:12 stricken 33:14 27:23 36:13
significant 4:25 stamp 29:17 34:12 38:20,24
20:5 16:12 20:10 standard 9:3,11 strict 38:2 susceptible
22:7,24 simple 18:12 27:25 32:3 strike 21:25 17:20
26:3 48:4 simply 45:10 39:18 40:4,12 24:25 35:12 sympathy 52:3
41:3 44:9 30:19 32:20 14:22 17:8,9 underlying 14:7 violation 11:13
41:20 27:7,10,22 28:3 15:11 11:23
35:23 43:19 45:22 38:19,22 39:2,3 40:1 42:11 47:3 want 33:8,9,10
41:22 48:17 39:9 41:11 42:1 understandable 35:4,6 52:4,24
44:12 9:22,25 10:16 45:3,7,8 47:24 understanding 49:13
17:13 18:18,23 torts 6:16 undisputed 3:10 Washington 1:8
23:20 24:23 28:22 trial 34:17,19,21 unfortunately way 8:4 19:20
27:4,5 30:17,24 34:10 tried 8:16 19:22 8:9 41:13 22:6 35:25 36:5
52:23 42:20 44:25 tries 21:17 19:25 ways 15:2 16:25
13:5 23:1 51:13,18 52:9 troubled 6:7 unjust 14:12 went 5:12
50:16,23 thinking 16:25 truck 28:5 unrepresented we'll 43:12
51:10 38:13 truly 17:2 40:9 27:17 we're 35:12
51:8,9 three 27:8 34:16 trusting 25:25 18:16,19,21,24 we've 10:25 13:3
52:8 46:22 trying 4:4 7:3 30:15 34:15 16:24
53:5,6 15:24 16:7,20 turn 23:17 41:22 42:14 we're 11:13,17
29:7 23:14 26:10 twice 33:3 32:3,9,11 36:23
44:17 29:14 33:22 two 4:23,24 7:2,2 V 37:1 38:24 43:8
46:10 34:12,13 42:20 14:24 17:7 19:6 v 1:5 3:4 43:8 44:18
50:9 46:9 50:17 52:2 23:11 29:3 valves 28:12 whatsoever 28:3
times 10:10 31:6 30:17 33:6 Vanderbilt 33:19
33:1 35:1 TODD 1:15 2:3,8 type 17:18 18:25 variant 10:5 wife 41:18
47:7,10 3:6 48:5 38:7 49:9 51:11 various 27:12 willing 39:5,6
told 23:4 49:23 51:14,15,17 vast 15:7 52:11 wins 51:22
toll 11:14,17,22 types 22:21 verbal 44:2 word 22:25
tolling 6:9,20 U versus 10:12 work 47:2
44:18 134 33:5
14 13:7
46:4 149 33:6
21:15 18 44:14,15
49:16 1997 52:10
40:23 2
20 27:19
27:18 44:10
30:6
27 47:13
44:13 3
28:25 30 42:6
40:2 42:11 30-day 18:13
50:21 300 43:17
364 43:15
394 27:11
48:11
48 2:9
1:4 3:4
1:9
12:3 38:2
13:19 20:19
21:6,6
1:13 3:2
