IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JOSE ANGEL CARACHURI-ROSENDO, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-60
ERIC H. HOLDER, JR., :
ATTORNEY GENERAL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 31, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:14 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:14 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 09-60,
Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder.
Mr. Srinivasan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
Long-time lawful permanent resident aliens
with two convictions for minor drug possession offenses
are subject to removal from the United States, but they
are not categorically ineligible to seek discretionary
relief from removal from the Attorney General based on
their connections and deep family ties to the country.
Categorical ineligibility for discretionary relief
arises under the Immigration and Nationality Act when a
permanent resident has been, quote, "convicted of an
aggravated felony," close quote, with the relevant
category here permanent residents who have been, quote,
"convicted of a felony punishable under the Controlled
Substances Act," close quote.
Individuals, such as Petitioner, who have
been convicted of drug possession, but as to whom there
has been no finding of recidivism, have been convicted
of a misdemeanor punishable under the Controlled
Substances Act rather than a felony.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Srinivasan, as a
threshold question, is there a mootness problem here,
because, as I understand it, the Petitioner came back to
the country illegally and committed another minor crime?
But his coming back illegally and being turned away
again, as I understand the law, means that he cannot get
any dispensation as a result of the illegal entry.
So even if we were to hold in your favor
now, I take it that he could not -- he would not have
any hope of getting any cancellation of removal or any
other dispensation. Is that so?
MR. SRINIVASAN: That's not correct,
Justice Ginsburg, in our view. And the government, it's
notable, doesn't make a mootness argument. And I think the
reason they don't is that the -- in Lopez, this Court
understood that the initial removal doesn't annul the
ability of an individual to get cancellation. And so,
as Your Honor correctly observes, the question would be
whether the reentry has an effect on the cancellation
and the eligibility for cancellation. And it does not
because Petitioner was removed again by reinstatement of
the original removal order. And so, if there's an
argument that the initial removal order wasn't good
because cancellation should have been granted, that also
carries through to the reinstatement.
And as a consequence of that procedural
context, there is no mootness argument and I think
that's why the government doesn't make -- doesn't take
that position.
So the question before the Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I -- I'm not sure I
understand what you're saying. You're saying that his
reentry was not illegal because his removal was illegal?
Is that what you are saying?
MR. SRINIVASAN: No, it's not that his
reentry wasn't illegal. It's that when he was then
again removed, that the -- the way that that was
accomplished was by reinstatement of the original
removal order.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I see.
MR. SRINIVASAN: And so, if the original
removal order would have been extinguished by a grant of
the cancellation order, then that carries forward to the
reinstatement of the original removal -- removal order
as well.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but does --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Nothing additional happens
because of the reentry.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But does it make the --
the second unlawful entry now lawful?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It doesn't make the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought -- I thought
it's a separate offense to enter, to reenter improperly,
and -- and that stays no matter, isn't that correct,
regardless of the correctness of the prior removal
order?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It does, Justice Kennedy --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or am I wrong?
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- but I think -- I think
the way that gets taken into account is it would be one
of the discretionary considerations that the Attorney
General could take into account in determining whether
to grant discretionary relief in the same way that the
original conviction for drug possession could be taken
into account. Our position --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I -- I -- I think also in
the picture is that he never contested removability.
The only thing was the grace: Would -- would he qualify
for discretionary relief by the Attorney General? So
the -- the removal order itself, I take it, would stand.
MR. SRINIVASAN: The removal order would
stand, but if cancellation were granted, then he
couldn't be removed pursuant to that removal order,
because the -- the effect of granting cancellation would
be that he's no longer removable. He gets favorable
discretionary relief that enables him to stay in the
country. And I think the predicate of Your Honor's
question is correct, that we don't contest removability.
He was removable because of his drug possession -- drug
possession conviction.
The question is whether he retains
eligibility to seek a favorable exercise of relief from
the Attorney General based on affirmative equities in
his -- in his favor, such as his deep family ties to the
country, the presence of United States citizen children
here, his lack of connections to the country to which he
would be removed, his employment history, and
considerations of that variety.
And the question before the Court is whether
he and other individuals who are similarly situated
should have an opportunity to make that case to the
Attorney General. He is removable. The question is
whether the Attorney General is in a -- is in a position
to grant him a favorable exercise of discretion.
And we think the Attorney General is,
because in order to be categorically ineligible for
discretionary relief from removal, a permanent resident
alien has to have been convicted of a felony punishable
under the Controlled Substances Act. And when you've
been convicted of drug possession and there has been no
finding of recidivism, you have been convicted of a
misdemeanor punishable under the Controlled Substances
Act.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What elements would a
State conviction have to contain to qualify as a finding
of recidivism in your view?
MR. SRINIVASAN: What elements?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes. What would have
had to have been determined in a State conviction for
you to recognize, under your argument, that it would
qualify as a felony under the Controlled Substances Act?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Sotomayor, at the
very least what would have had to have happened is that
he would have had to have been found to be a recidivist
under a State provision that attaches sentencing
consequences to being found to have been a recidivist.
And so, what you need is an analogous State
offense to the Federal offense of recidivist possession.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you know of any State
law that is analogous to the Federal law, precisely
analogous?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, analogous enough to
count, in the sense that what you need under the Federal
law is a finding of recidivism at least. That's our
principal submission.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what I'm trying
to -- to get to. What are the elements of that finding?
What exactly -- because different labels are attached to
different crimes that qualify you for recidivism under
some State statutes, et cetera. I'm trying to get you
to articulate what finding of recidivism counts, what
are the underlying --
MR. SRINIVASAN: It's a determination by the
court that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which court now, the
State court?
MR. SRINIVASAN: By the State convicting
court. In the case of a State conviction, it would be a
determination by the State convicting court that the
person in fact has a prior conviction. And then as a
consequence under the State scheme, a sentencing
consequence would attach.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So are you arguing that
a State court has to make a finding of a valid prior
conviction; is that it?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes, in -- in the context
of a State conviction. It --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it doesn't have to be a
State felony?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It doesn't have to be a
State felony, no.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The felony has to be a
Federal felony, right?
MR. SRINIVASAN: That's correct. And that's
the work done by the words "punishable under the
Controlled Substances Act."
JUSTICE SCALIA: Punishable as a felony
under the Federal Act.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But this was punishable as
a felony because it was his second drug offense. He was
a recidivist. And although it was only a misdemeanor
under State law, under the Controlled Substances Act he
could be prosecuted for a felony, for a Federal felony.
I -- I -- I don't know why that doesn't fit the statute.
MR. SRINIVASAN: But -- but, Justice Scalia,
he has to have been convicted of the felony. That's
the critical distinction. He may have committed a
felony --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He can't be convicted of a
Federal felony in a State court. He has to be convicted
of a crime --
MR. SRINIVASAN: He has to have been
convicted of a crime --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- which may be a misdemeanor,
which would subject him to a felony conviction in
Federal court under the Controlled Substances Act. And
I think that's - that's what this is. He's convicted of
a drug offense, and if - if he were prosecuted in Federal
court, he would -- he was punishable as a felon --
MR. SRINIVASAN: He was --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- in Federal court under
the -- under the Controlled Substances Act.
MR. SRINIVASAN: He was not punishable as a
felon in Federal court for two reasons: First, he was
convicted of drug possession. A person in Federal court
who is convicted of drug possession is a misdemeanant,
not a felon, unless and until there's a finding that
he's a recidivist. You have to have the finding of
recidivist in order for a felony sentence even to
conceivably attach to an individual, and you just don't
have that in the context of this case, where all you
have is a conviction of drug possession alone. A felony
sentence doesn't even come into the picture unless there's
a finding of recidivism.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't the --
MR. SRINIVASAN: That didn't happen in the
State court.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't the crux of your argument
that for present purposes the term "conviction" must
include a determination of recidivism?
MR. SRINIVASAN: For present purposes,
that's correct. And Justice Alito, I think it's
important to understand -- and this goes to the second
response to your question, Justice Scalia -- that the
statute, the Immigration and Nationality Act, defines
"conviction" in a particular way. It defines
"conviction" as "a formal judgment of guilt ... entered by
a court."
As Your Honor's opinion for the Court in
Deal v. United States understood, statutes could define
convictions in one of two ways: It could define a
conviction as a finding of guilty, or it could define a
conviction as the formal judgment based on that finding.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what would you say --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Here we have the latter.
JUSTICE ALITO: What do you say about
21 U.S.C. section 851, the Federal recidivism provision,
which says: "No person who stands convicted of an offense
under this part shall be sentenced to increased punishment
by reason of one or more prior convictions."
So under that statute, the conviction does not
include the recidivism determination.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Under --
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that right?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Under that statute --
different statutes conceive of it different ways, but
the applicable definition of "conviction" here, because
we're talking about an immigration consequence, is
the definition of "conviction" under the Immigration and
Nationality Act. And that definition is set forth at
page 2a of the appendix to our brief, the blue brief,
the opening brief. And it's 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(48)(A),
and it says that: "The term 'conviction' means, with
respect to an alien, a formal judgment of guilt of the
alien entered by a court."
And so, here you have "a formal judgment of
guilt" as the operative definition of a conviction, and
that formal judgment of guilt includes both the
adjudication of guilt and the sentence. And so the
important point to bear in mind is that at the time that
the conviction, as defined by the Immigration and
Nationality Act, is entered, we know whether the person
has been found to have been a recidivist. At that point,
the adjudication of guilt has happened, the sentence has
been imposed, and we know whether a finding of recidivism
has been made. In the absence of such a finding, the
maximum sentence they could attach under Federal law,
Justice Scalia, is a misdemeanor sentence of 1 year of
imprisonment.
A felony sentence is not on the table, and
if the maximum sentence to which a person is subject is
a misdemeanor sentence, the person has been -- has been
convicted of a misdemeanor; they haven't been convicted
of a felony. And that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let's assume we're not
talking about immigration consequences. Let's -- let's
assume we're talking about an American citizen who has
committed a -- a misdemeanor drug offense. When he is
brought up under the Controlled Substances Act, even
though he wasn't found to have been a recidivist by the
State conviction, couldn't he be prosecuted under the
Controlled Substances Act for a felony because in fact
he is a recidivist?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Oh, sure. But -- but I
think -- I think that confuses two things. In that
situation, the second proceeding is in Federal court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- and in that Federal court
proceeding, you can take account of the prior State court
conviction, but in that second proceeding, the fact that
he was convicted previously in State court would have to
have been found by the Federal court. That's the relevant
finding of recidivism, and in the absence of that finding of
recidivism, the Federal defendant wouldn't be subject to
a felony sentence. He would only be subject to a
misdemeanor sentence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but -- the crucial word
here is "punishable" as a felony under the Controlled
Substances Act. And the fact is if indeed he's a
recidivist, he could be punished for the -- for the
felony. Now, you're quite correct that the Federal
court would have to find the recidivism, but -- but
still he would be punishable as a recidivist.
MR. SRINIVASAN: He has to be convicted of a
felony, Justice Scalia, and in the absence of a finding
of recidivism, he can't have been convicted of the
felony. He may be punishable as a felon in the abstract
ex ante. So I don't take issue with the proposition
that a person commits recidivist possession when they
commit possession and they have a prior conviction. In
that abstract sense, the person has committed recidivist
possession, and if they were charged and found to have
been a recidivist, they would be convicted of recidivist
possession. But in the absence of that finding, they
haven't been convicted of recidivist possession, and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under the applicable
State law, what's required before the recidivist
sentence is triggered? Is it a formal finding of
recidivism by the -- by a jury?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It doesn't have to be by a
jury, and I think it would depend on the State,
Mr. Chief Justice. It doesn't necessarily have to be by
a jury, because I think several States have the
recidivism component of the offense as a finding that
could be made by the court, but the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And we've held that's
okay --
MR. SRINIVASAN: And you've held --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that you don't need a jury.
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- that's okay as a
constitutional matter. But --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we have five States,
isn't it, that have no recidivist provisions?
MR. SRINIVASAN: There are --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is the thrust of your
argument or the logical consequence of your argument, if
you have one of those States with no recidivist
provisions and you have ten separate possession
convictions, they're still not a recidivist under the
Federal rules?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It is in those five States,
Justice Kennedy, but I don't think that should give the
Court a great deal of pause, for the following two
reasons.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no. In my
hypothetical, what would happen if -- if there was a
deportation proceeding?
MR. SRINIVASAN: What would happen is this:
The person would not be categorically ineligible for
discretionary relief.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because there is no
recidivist finding.
MR. SRINIVASAN: They wouldn't have been
convicted of recidivist possession. But it's important
to note, Justice Kennedy, that doesn't mean that those
prior convictions don't enter into the picture at all.
They do, because, in the exercise of discretion by the
Attorney General, the Attorney General can take into
account any prior convictions, including those that
don't render somebody categorically ineligible.
All we're talking about here is whether the
person has a chance to make a discretionary case. They
do have that chance in Your Honor's hypothetical, but
those convictions would be taken into account.
Now, I want to point out, though, that there's
another reason that I think the fact that in that
hypothetical it wouldn't render the defendant
categorically ineligible for discretionary relief
shouldn't give the Court a great deal of pause. And
that's because the relevant category of aggravated
felony that we're talking about here is illicit
trafficking in a controlled substance. That's the
category that's outlined by the statute.
Now, with respect to that category, every
State has trafficking laws. Every State punishes drug
trafficking. So every State's offenses do count for
purposes of this category of aggravated felony. When
we're -- that's the iceberg. The tip of the iceberg is
recidivist possession, which is a subset of illicit
trafficking in a controlled substance. Now, with respect
to that tip, Federal convictions for recidivist possession
still do count, so we have those. With respect to the State --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but the State
prosecutors often prosecute when they have a recidivist
provision under that, rather than the much more difficult
illicit trafficking crime. I mean, if you're going to
go to jail for a certain amount of years for a
recidivist possession, that's easier to show than illicit
trafficking.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, sure, but if a
State -- two responses, Mr. Chief Justice: If a State
prosecutor does prosecute under an available recidivist
possession offense, then that would count because the
State prosecutor would have brought the charge, the
finding by hypothesis would have been made. That would
be felony recidivist possession under Federal law, and
there would be categorical ineligibility.
Now, I think what may be -- what may be sort
of lurking beneath Your Honor's question is the
recognition that the Federal consequences of a State
conviction are going to turn on State prosecutorial
decisions. That's true. But that's a fixed feature of
any scheme in which Federal immigration consequences
turns on what happens in State court, and this Court's
decision in Lopez recognizes that.
For example, States -- several States don't
have a Federal offense of possession with intent to
distribute drugs. That's a Federal offense. What
States, some States, have instead is possession with a
degree of penalty attached to the amount of drugs
possessed. They don't have the separate offense of
possession with intent to distribute.
Now, the fact that certain States don't have
that offense doesn't mean that an individual who is
convicted of state possession with no finding of an
intent to distribute would be categorically ineligible
for discretionary relief from removal, because what
Congress understood was that some States will have
qualifying offenses and some States won't. In those
States that do, where the State has the offense and
where the State prosecutor makes the decision to charge
under that offense will -- at that point the State
conviction will count as a Federal felony. It will be a
felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act,
and the person at that point would be categorically
ineligible for discretionary relief.
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know. It seems to
me you go further than you need to and, moreover,
imagine a State offense that just says possession of
marijuana, zero to 5 years. Now, our problem is,
reading those words, is that or is that not analogous to
a Federal -- a Federal -- what a Federal law would make
a felony? And suppose you discovered as a matter of
fact that all the people who did have a prior conviction
got more than a year. In simple possession, they got
less than a year, which you'd have to do research to
find out.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if those were the
facts, I would say it is analogous to the Federal
felony where this person was sentenced to more than a
year.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I don't think it would be,
Justice Breyer, because --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, we could argue that
one --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- but I don't see where --
that there's a line, because it seems to me the rule is
set forth -- we said in the last sentence here of --
what's the case? You know --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Lopez?
JUSTICE BREYER: What?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Is it Lopez? Is that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, Lopez. It says: "A
state offense constitutes a `felony punishable under the
Controlled Substances Act' only if it proscribes
conduct." So we're not looking at what happened in
reality. We're reading some words from a State
statute.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what proscribes
conduct punishable as a felony under that Federal law.
This would be normal. We get some words in the State
statute, and you have to decide are the -- those
words cover some events in the world. And you look at
those words, what -- the events they cover and discover,
did they or are they analogous or not analogous to what
is a felony under Federal law? Sometimes that's easy,
sometimes it's not.
You have a case, I think, that's easy. But
I can imagine the case you're talking about, not easy.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I --
JUSTICE BREYER: So you say, what do you do?
I see no rule there. I see no rule absolute how you treat
it, so I probably would treat it by trying to look at what
really happens under this statute in the world.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well -- well, with respect,
Justice Breyer, I don't think that's the inquiry that's
called for even by this sentence. I think what this
sentence called for is an inquiry into what the State
offense captures in its offense elements to make up a
conviction.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why -- where does it say
"offense element"?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Because I think that's
the -- the necessary inquiry that's --
JUSTICE BREYER: Where does it say that?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It's -- it's necessarily
what's at issue. It --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why?
MR. SRINIVASAN: This sentence doesn't
necessarily -- it asks whether --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, where in the statute --
MR. SRINIVASAN: It asks whether it proscribes
conduct.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- does it say "offense elements"?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It asks whether -- the
sentence asks whether the State offense proscribes
conduct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. SRINIVASAN: And I read "proscribes
conduct" to mean there would be offense elements
of proscribed conduct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you say that it says
"elements." I don't see any of our cases that say
"elements." And I -- and I think that -- that what we
could do is look to the conduct that's likely to be at
issue under these State words, and if in fact it's
regular that the State does punish people for more than
a year when in fact they do possess for the third time,
at least there would be a good argument --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- that that counts. You
want to argue it doesn't count, okay. I don't know why
you do.
MR. SRINIVASAN: No --
JUSTICE BREYER: But, I mean, I'm interested in
why you do, since that isn't your case.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes, I don't want to take
issue -- I don't want to argue against myself,
certainly, but I would just make the following point:
That if I'm understanding what Your Honor is saying
correctly, and I'm not sure that I am, but if I'm
understanding what you're saying correctly, I would just
point out to the Court that the Court dealt with that
sort of situation in the four corners of Lopez itself
when it talked about -- talks about what happens with
possession with intent to distribute.
Some States don't have possession with
intent to distribute as an offense; they only have
possession. Now, I -- as I understand what Your Honor
is suggesting, you could look at all the -- the ken of
individuals who have been convicted of State possession
and you could ask as a matter of fact, do they in fact
possess with intent to distribute? And then you could
reach some consequence on that basis.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know, but the reason I
ask my question is it seems to me your approach, which I
think is consistent with Lopez and Nijhawan
absolutely --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- does raise the question
you are talking about. So I want to know: Why are you
talking about it? Because I might be missing something,
because I don't think -- if I'm right, your case doesn't
raise these issues. Or am I wrong about that?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I -- I have to confess, I'm
not exactly sure what Your Honor is asking. So --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Well, skip the
question.
(Laughter.)
MR. SRINIVASAN: I think --
JUSTICE ALITO: Could I ask you this
question --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I --
JUSTICE ALITO: If -- suppose a State makes simple
possession a felony. Now, that doesn't make it a felony
for these purposes, right?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. But in
sentencing the -- the defendant in State court for this
felony, the -- the defendant concedes that he had a
prior conviction, and the judge finds that and takes that
into account in imposing the sentence. What would
happen there?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It wouldn't constitute the
analogy to the Federal offense of recidivist possession,
Justice -- Justice Alito, because that could also happen
in the Federal system. In the Federal system, you could
have an individual who is convicted of possession, and
then the fact that they had a prior conviction could
have some role in the -- for example, in the
presentencing report.
JUSTICE ALITO: But what's missing there?
MR. SRINIVASAN: You don't have --
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the difference
between that and -- and a situation where, just because
of the vagary of State law, recidivism is something that
has to be proven in order to bring the offense into the
-- into the felony level?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Two things are
missing, Justice Alito: First, you don't have a formal
judgment of guilt entered by the court, which is what
a conviction requires. And the consequence of not
having a formal judgment of guilt is that the statutory
maximum penalty isn't raised. And I think what's
relevant here is that when you have a finding of -- a
formal judgment of guilt of recidivism in the Federal
system, which happens when the prosecutor brings a
charge and the court makes the finding at sentencing,
the maximum sentence that could be imposed against the
defendant is raised from a misdemeanor sentence to a
felony sentence.
But that doesn't happen in a situation in
which the fact of a prior conviction is taken into
account, for example, under a presentencing report. It
doesn't raise the statutory maximum, and there's no
formal judgment entered based on that determination by
the court. And so that's the distinction.
And I think the relevant way to look at it
is you take account of what would happen in the Federal
system and you ask: Would it have the consequence in
the Federal system of rendering somebody guilty of the
felony of recidivist possession as opposed to the
misdemeanor of simple possession? And it wouldn't in
the Federal system, and by parity of reasoning it also
would not have that consequence in the State system.
JUSTICE ALITO: That seems to be a totally
formalistic distinction that's based on the vagaries of
State law. What -- what is the difference between
someone who is found by a court under a State recidivism
provision to have -- to be eligible for an increased
punishment as a result of that finding and someone who
is found by a court in the context of sentencing,
discretionary sentencing, to have a felony possession,
to have a prior -- a prior conviction and receives an
increased sentence as a result of that?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well --
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the -- is there any
functional difference between those two situations?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think there is,
Justice Alito, and let me just say as a preliminary
matter it's not based on the vagaries of State law,
because it's -- I'm applying the same analysis to State
convictions as I do to -- to Federal convictions.
But one way to look at it is to ask, suppose
that a State or even Federal law made it salient for
sentencing purposes whether somebody intended to
distribute when they possessed. They were convicted of
drug possession. There is an offense of possession with
intent to distribute, but they're not charged with that
offense; they're charged with drug possession. And
then sentencing somehow makes it salient, not for
purposes of raising the statutory maximum, but just for
purposes of sentencing within the range whether the
person intended to distribute.
I don't think anybody would say that the
individual was convicted of the felony of possession
with intent to distribute because the -- the judge in
sentencing took into account an intent to distribute
in some way under a sentencing scheme.
JUSTICE ALITO: But does it matter in that
situation that that's an element, that has to be an
element of the offense?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It has to be a sentencing
factor that raises the statutory maximum. And the
reason that matters is that under this statute, the
person has to have been convicted of a felony, and the
only way they're convicted of a felony is the offense
of which they are convicted can lead to a felony
sentence.
And the sentencing factor in this case of
recidivism is necessary in order to give rise to a
Federal sentence. In the absence of that finding, the
person has been convicted of a misdemeanor, because the
maximum sentence they can receive is a misdemeanor
sentence of 1 year of imprisonment.
If the Court has no further questions, I'd
like to reserve the balance of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Srinivasan.
Ms. Saharsky.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. SAHARSKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Congress's judgment here was that all aliens
who engage in the same serious conduct would be treated
the same for immigration purposes. And Petitioner
doesn't dispute that he has two convictions for drug
possession, and he also doesn't dispute that had that
second case been prosecuted in Federal court, he could
have been punished as a felon. What he is saying is: I
don't want my aggravated felony to count because of a
difference in State law, because of a difference in the
State prosecutor's decision.
But what this Court held in Lopez is that
Congress's judgment controls about the seriousness of
the offense.
JUSTICE BREYER: The exact words of
Lopez, which I think are important: "We hold that a
State offense constitutes a felony punishable under
Controlled Substance ... only if it proscribes conduct
punishable as a felony." Okay?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Under Federal law. Now,
there's an ambiguity when you use a word like "offense"
or "crime." Sometimes you mean what this guy did, and
sometimes you're referring to a statute. It's statutes
that proscribe, not what this guy did. So we're
talking about the statute. So what it tells us to do --
and we said the same thing in Nijhawan, and I have
written in other opinions the same thing -- you go read
the State statute. Forget what he's done. Read the
statute and see if the statute proscribes conduct that
would amount to a felony under Federal law.
So let us read the statute. We turn to the
statute of conviction. What it says is it is a class A
misdemeanor for which you are punishable of less than a
year if you possess less than 28 grams or whatever. It
says nothing about recidivism. There is no increased
punishment for recidivism.
So all we did was read the statute. The
statute does not proscribe conduct that would be a
felony under Federal law; it proscribes conduct that
would be a misdemeanor. QED. This person has not been
punished in Texas under a statute that proscribes
conduct that would be a felony under Federal law. End
of case.
Now, what is the matter with what I just
said?
MS. SAHARSKY: Because this is a two-step
inquiry and you only did step one.
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you mean, "a
two-step inquiry"?
MS. SAHARSKY: A two-step inquiry. There
are two questions. The first is: Does the State
offense correspond to an offense under the CSA? Does it
correspond to a Federal offense, and that's based on
the elements, and the Court said that that was based on
the elements on page 51 of Nijhawan --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Okay.
MS. SAHARSKY: But there's a second
question, which is: If it corresponds to a Federal
offense, how would that Federal offense be punishable?
The "punishable" under the CSA language determines that
we need to look at that second inquiry.
JUSTICE BREYER: No --
MS. SAHARSKY: If in addition to that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Where does it say
that? Where does it say that in the language?
You are looking to the conduct that the
statute proscribes, not what he engaged in. Suppose the
State statute says it is a misdemeanor to steal a
chicken, okay?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: It is a misdemeanor. He is
convicted of stealing a chicken. It turns out that the
way he stole the chicken was to burn down the farmhouse.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: That is a felony. Now,
what we have written is: Forget the second. I've
written it in five opinions or four or three, most of
which had a majority.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: It is called -- it is
written right here in this case. It is written in
Nijhawan. What is it that tells us to go beyond the
conduct that the State statute proscribes, not some
other thing?
MS. SAHARSKY: The conduct is what the State
statute proscribes, but there's an additional question
of how it is punishable --
JUSTICE BREYER: Where is the additional
question? Read me the words of the statute that --
there might be. I'm not -- I'm being argumentative, but
I want to know what words in the statute say there -- or
what words in a case say go look to some other thing
beyond what the State statute proscribes?
MS. SAHARSKY: Okay. This is on the gray
brief, page 10a, and this is the definition that is
incorporated into the aggravated felony definition in
the INA, and it says that it encompasses, quote, "any
felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act."
And in Lopez the Court interpreted that language to mean
an offense that is punishable as a felony under the
Controlled Substances Act.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. What offense? The
offense proscribed --
MS. SAHARSKY: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- by State law. That's
why I asked you: Where does the State statute proscribe
something that has to do with recidivism? I've read
that State statute three or four times.
MS. SAHARSKY: Recidivism isn't part of the
offense. It is a sentencing factor. Justice Scalia
mentioned that. That's something this Court has
recognized on many occasions, that recidivism is
something that can be established by the sentencing
court.
You are right: The offense is drug
possession. He was convicted of drug possession in
State court. That's what he would have been convicted
of in Federal court. But the fact that he was convicted
of drug possession doesn't answer the separate question
of how that offense is punishable. If it were his first
offense, it would be punishable as a misdemeanor. If it
was his second offense, it would be punishable as a
felony.
And we think that that -- that approach is
dictated by two different opinions, the first of which
is Lopez, which says we look for a correspondence
between the State offense and the Federal offense, but
then we also have this question of how the offense is
punishable in Federal court, and this punishability
question is extremely relevant. The entire basis for
the Court's -- the entire basis for the Court's opinion
was that Congress's judgment about the seriousness of
the offense controls. It is not State by State
judgment.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Saharsky, do we take
into account at all -- I mean, in Lopez as I understand
it, the petitioner prevailed because it would not have
been a felony under the Federal law. Is that right?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Here we're talking about
two crimes. One is a small amount of marijuana. He
gets 20 days in jail. The other is a pill that I never
heard of, a Xan-something, and then he gets, what, 10 days
in jail for that. If you could just present this scenario
to an intelligent person who didn't go to law school,
as you're going to not only remove him from this
country, but say never, ever darken our doors again
because of one marijuana cigarette and one Xan-something
pill -- it -- it just seems to me that if there's a way
of reading the statute that would not lead to that
absurd result, you would want to read the statute.
If you are forced to read it because there's
no other way -- but maybe there is another way.
MS. SAHARSKY: We don't think that there is
another way, because the Court said in Lopez in
interpreting the statutory language that the State's
judgment about how an offense is punished does not
control. What controls is Congress's judgment, and
Congress has taken a hard line over the past 20 years on
criminal aliens, particularly recidivist criminal
aliens --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it has --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me what --
MS. SAHARSKY: -- particularly --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What would happen if
there -- forget the State. There are two Federal offenses.
The first Federal offense is drug possession; the second
Federal offense, drug possession, but the prosecutor is
not quite sure that he has a strong case or she has a strong
case for recidivism because of the first conviction.
So the -- on the second go-around, the
conviction is without the added finding of recidivism.
What does the INA do with that case?
MS. SAHARSKY: That would count as an
aggravated felony, as punishable as a felony, because
the aggravated felony language incorporates the word
"punishable," how it could be treated under Federal law,
not how it actually was punished. And that's because
Congress made a -- a judgment in the immigration code
that what it wanted to do was to take all individuals
who had been engaged in the same conduct --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you're telling us --
MS. SAHARSKY: -- repeated drug possession,
and treat them the same.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what would --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So something's not a
Federal felony and it's now subject -- because he hasn't
been convicted in Federal court of recidivism -- now
he's being punished under the INA or removed under the
INA for what is not a felony under Federal law?
MS. SAHARSKY: Because it's punishable --
yes, because it's punishable as a felony under Federal
law, because Congress made a judgment that those two
drug possession offenses, the fact of recidivism makes
it serious enough that it could be--
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I just ask you
one --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If -- if I could just
finish on this one -- this one. In this hypothetical
that we're discussing, the -- the two Federal offenses
but no finding of recidivism, does the INA have the
authority to question the first conviction because it
was uncounseled or in effect collaterally question the
first conviction?
MS. SAHARSKY: It -- it's well established
that those kind of challenges can't be brought in
immigration court. What needs to happen is they need to
be brought in the State court of conviction through the
procedures that are --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, what -- our
hypothetical here is Federal.
MS. SAHARSKY: Oh, I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.
MS. SAHARSKY: In that case if it -- the
individual would need to seek relief in Federal court in
terms of getting his conviction --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought if it's in
the Federal court, and the -- they are going
to use it as a recidivist offense, (a) the defendant is
notified of that, and (b) is given an opportunity to say
there's something infirm about that first conviction.
That's totally absent from this picture.
You say, oh, well, that's just a matter
of procedure, so he doesn't have to get that anyplace.
I think that Congress is requiring that. It's certainly
an element of fundamental due process fairness, notice
and opportunity to say, no, the first conviction
shouldn't count.
MS. SAHARSKY: With respect, we disagree
because Congress made different judgments in the
immigration context and in the criminal context.
Immigration is very different from criminal proceedings.
This Court has said that on numerous occasions the
rights in terms of due process and counsel and the like
are very different.
And in immigration, Congress made a
categorical judgment that individuals who have been
convicted of conduct should all be treated the same and
that they all should be removed from the United States
and should be -- not be able to get discretionary
relief. In the criminal sentencing context, which you
are talking about, section -- the section 851 procedures,
Congress made a judgment that those procedures which have
criminal consequences and already are individualized, that
there would be this notice provision. But that provision
Congress did not apply anywhere in the immigration laws.
And if you look --
JUSTICE BREYER: You go ahead.
MS. SAHARSKY: I was just going to say, if
you look all through the aggravated felony provisions --
they are in our brief; there are 21 of them -- for none
of those provisions was Congress concerned about notice
or the like. It said the individual has engaged in
this conduct that we think is serious.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But my point is that if
it all happened in the Federal court, if these two
possession offenses all happened in the Federal court,
at the time of the second one the -- the defendant would
have gotten the notice and the opportunity to knock it
out.
I'm not talking about immigration, but
just -- and he doesn't have that opportunity the way you
treat it. He doesn't -- didn't get that in the State
court because nobody thought that this was a recidivist
offense in the State court.
MS. SAHARSKY: That's right. And that's
because Congress made the decision to have those types
of notice procedures in criminal proceedings, but they
are not applicable by their terms anywhere in the
immigration laws. And just to make sure that I
understand the hypotheticals that you and Justice
Kennedy have been talking about, if there is a Federal
prosecution and the person has sought to challenge the
validity of his conviction and it has been proven to be
invalid, then in that case, yes, there would be a
question whether that conviction could be used in the
immigration proceedings. There is an entire body of law
that when a conviction has been vacated, it doesn't
count as a conviction under the immigration proceedings.
So the answer is if it is a person in State
court and they think that there's a problem with their
underlying conviction, they need to go to State court or
use whatever procedures are available for challenging
that. But, again, the Court has said on numerous occasions
prior convictions are presumed valid. We do not -- we
do not assume --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we know practically,
both on the State side and on the Federal side, do
prosecutors presented with a simple possession case,
do they -- do we ever see in real life this combination
that somebody's going to be convicted as a recidivist
when it's one marijuana cigarette on one time and one pill
on another? Do prosecutors, Federal or State, do that?
MS. SAHARSKY: I -- I can't speak to State
prosecutors. I know there are circumstances in which
Federal prosecutors do it, although, quite honestly,
most of the Federal drug prosecutions regard the more
serious drug crimes. The persons that come to our
attention usually can be charged with at least
possession with intent to distribute or drug trafficking
or something like that. And when we do charge them with
possession, it's usually because they pleaded down and
we've agreed not to give them an enhanced sentence.
But the judgment here is the one that
Congress made about whether two drug possessions is
serious, serious enough to qualify as a felony. And
Congress --
JUSTICE BREYER: Can I ask you a related
question, which will show what I'm trying -- another
thing that's worrying me. Suppose we're in the Armed
Career Criminal Act.
Now, I have -- this is my hypothetical. You've
heard of cat burglars. Well, this gentleman is
called the pussycat burglar, and the reason is he's never
harmed a soul. He only carries soft pillows as weapons.
If he sees a child, he gives them ice cream.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: It is absolutely
established that this person in breaking into that house
at night only wanted to steal a pop gun, and he is the
least likely to cause harm in the world.
Question: He is convicted of burglary. Is
that a crime of violence? Answer?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, to the extent that the
burglary definition depends on the Court's modified
categorical approach, you just look to see what he
had been convicted of and not the individual --
JUSTICE BREYER: Correct.
MS. SAHARSKY: -- circumstances of the case.
JUSTICE BREYER: The answer is of course,
because we are not looking to whether he is the pussycat
burglar or the cat burglar. We are to look to the
statute of conviction and see what it is that that
behavior forbids -- the statute forbids. Lewis,
Nijhawan say -- do precisely the same thing with this part
of that long list. Indeed, Nijhawan lists this
provision as an example of what you would do the same
thing for.
Now I'm back to my first question. Let's do
it. Read the Texas statute. And where in that Texas
statute does it say a word about recidivism or punish
that conduct?
Now, if I adopt your position, am I not,
not simply overturning Lewis and Nijhawan, but getting a
very mixed up area of the law which we have tried to
straighten out -- Taylor, ACCA -- once again totally
mixed up. That's my concern.
MS. SAHARSKY: With respect, I think that
our position is entirely consistent and, in fact,
follows from Lopez and Nijhawan and is consistent with
the Court's modified categorical approach.
So, let me just talk about Lopez and
Nijhawan, because I want to make sure there's not any
confusion about that. Lopez said that we have a
question here about whether the State offense -- and a
State offense is made up of here drug possession;
recidivism isn't something that you're convicted of,
it's a sentencing factor.
You look at the State offense and you see
does it correspond to a Federal offense? Here it does.
There is State drug possession; there is Federal drug
possession. And then you ask another question. And
this Court said in Lopez that that's an important
question because we care about what Congress thought,
which is how is this offense punishable under Federal
law.
This is a two-part inquiry where the first
part, the offense elements, does need to be established
in State court, and the second part, which goes to how
it is punishable, does not need to be established in
State court. And that's exactly what the Court
recognized in its opinion under Nijhawan --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under the Federal --
MS. SAHARSKY: -- albeit in a second --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under the Federal statute,
it's only punishable on -- for recidivism purposes if the
prior conviction was valid, because, as Justice Ginsburg
pointed out, the statute permits a defendant to object.
Who has the burden of proof of proving validity is irrelevant.
It's not punishable as recidivism unless the prior conviction
was valid, constitutionally valid.
So why isn't that same standard or proof
thereof required either in the State conviction under
your -- under any theory, or by the IJ? The IJ fails to
make that finding, how has he and on what basis has he
ruled that there was a valid prior conviction?
MS. SAHARSKY: What makes an offense
punishable as a felony under the Federal Controlled
Substances Act is contained in section 844, which
defines the substantive punishments available. It says
that drug possession is punishable as a felony in
certain circumstances. And this Court in Lopez,
particularly in footnote 6, recognized that repeat drug
possession qualifies as punishable as a felony and under
the CSA and --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But only under a process
that requires notice --
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, this is what is
interesting.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- And --
MS. SAHARSKY: I'm sorry. What's
interesting is the Court cited for this provision
section 844(a), which defines the substantive penalties
available. It didn't cite -- no one thought was
relevant section 851, which defines procedures that
happen after a conviction to impose a certain
punishment.
So, what we're talking about are these
procedures that are necessary. And it's not a finding
of a valid conviction. It's -- it's a long set of
procedures. There doesn't necessarily need to be a
finding of a valid conviction if the defendant doesn't
object at all. There's burden shifting. It's very
complicated. Congress did not apply it to the
immigration code by its terms. It's not applicable to
the States by its terms.
What the Court said in Lopez in saying, in
footnote 6, that recidivist possession counts as
punishable under the CSA, it pointed to section 844,
which defines the penalties available and not anything
about procedures. And even conviction --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, you would
suggest, then, that even if a prior State court
conviction was secured without the advice of counsel,
that would qualify as a Federal offense of recidivism.
So let's assume this case, that in neither the
conviction for the one marijuana stick or the conviction
for the one sleeping pill, that if those convictions
were secured without the advice of counsel, that would
be enough to qualify him as a recidivist under the
Federal law.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, that -- that raises a
very narrow question that, so far as we are aware, has
never been addressed in the immigration context, which
is whether there could be a proceeding to challenge the
narrow question of a conviction obtained in the complete
absence of counsel.
This Court said in Custis that there -- even
though there is a very broad general rule that prior
convictions are presumed valid, that in one narrow
situation, the complete absence of counsel, that a due
process type challenge could be brought.
Now, that question has never been raised in
this case, whether such a challenge could be brought in
immigration proceedings despite the general rule that
there are no such collateral challenges, but that is a
different rule and a different body of jurisprudence
from this Court, the due process body, as opposed to
importing all of the very complicated section 851
procedures into the -- the -- the inquiry here.
And just to get back to the --
JUSTICE ALITO: Could a -- could a defendant
whose prior conviction was under a State recidivism
statute claim that that conviction was invalid because
that defendant was at that time deprived of the right of
counsel? Do you see a difference between that situation
and the situation in which -- and the situation in the
sort of case we have here with respect to the issue of
whether the prior conviction was invalid because of the
deprivation of the right of counsel?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes, I think that they're
potentially distinguishable. But, you know, this is --
this is not a question that has ever come up in the
immigration context. It would be a special rule that
would be based on the Court's decision, we think, in
Custis and not anything about "punishable" referring to
section 851 procedures.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why are they
distinguishable? You could -- you can -- you could
-- a person faced with removal could challenge
a prior conviction on the ground that there was a
deprivation of the right of counsel, whether or not it
was pursuant to a recidivism -- whether or not there was
a recidivism issue in it, couldn't -- couldn't they?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes, but I think
recidivism -- I think there's some confusion in the
Court's discussion, perhaps, that recidivism is not an
element of the offense. You're never convicted of
recidivism. You're convicted of an offense, and you
might be subject to an increased punishment for that
offense because you are a recidivist.
And that's essentially what Petitioner wants
here, is to define the State court offense as having an
element of recidivism, but there is one thing that's
clear from this Court's jurisprudence to this point is
that recidivism is separate and unique from anything
else that might --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what case do I
read to establish that?
MS. SAHARSKY: That recidivism is separate
and unique?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.
MS. SAHARSKY: Almendarez-Torres would be
one. The Court's decision in Rodriquez would be
another.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but
Almendarez-Torres was a different offense; was it not?
I mean this is -- this is a drug offender who -- it's
not like a burglar who stops burglary to take up a new
trade. This is -- this is a drug offender who continues
to repeat under the drug offense laws, and I thought the
position was that this shows a particular propensity, a
particular immoral attitude that's not being corrected.
And so that the recidivism makes him a worse person.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, what this Court said in
Rodriguez generally about recidivist punishments is you're
always being punished for the last offense, but
you're being punished more severely because it's shown
that incapacitation and deterrence isn't working for
you.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what was worrying
me, that's why I asked the other question. But the --
what was worrying me would be a statute where they --
it's big enough in the State to cover possession with
recidivism or not, and they deal with it at the
punishment stage, and I can see your point in respect to
that. But that isn't this statute.
This statute not only doesn't deal with it
at the punishment stage; it's forbidden to take it into
account because what this says is you can only get
recidivism if you previously had a conviction for a
class A misdemeanor, and the prior conviction here was a
class B; and, therefore, one thing we know about the
statute is that under this statute, his behavior as a
recidivist is as close to irrelevant as you could make
it. That's why I'm back to the cat burglar.
MS. SAHARSKY: Right. And what -- what I'm
suggesting about that State statute is that -- and this
Court said this in Lopez -- that Congress didn't want
those variations in State law to change the treatment
for individual offenders.
What it wanted, and it did this in
aggravated felony provisions, all throughout them, is to
identify categories of persons who had done certain
conduct that Congress thought was serious enough and
treat them all the same for immigration purposes. And
the Court said in Lopez, we're not going to make the
way that State law treats recidivism -- or we're not
going to make State law treats an offense change the
outcome. The outcome is going to be based on how
Federal law treats the offense.
And that's why, to get back to one of my
earlier answers to your questions, we think that this
Court's decision in Nijhawan is extremely important
here, because what the Court recognized in that decision
is that Congress, in defining an aggravated felony,
sometimes talks about required elements of the offense,
and it sometimes talks about extra facts that can be
established in the immigration court. In Nijhawan, there
was a fraud or deceit offense with this extra fact of
this loss amount of $10,000 or more. And Congress did the
same thing in this provision. They had --
JUSTICE BREYER: It did? Well, Nijhawan uses
this provision as an example of where it didn't.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, we think that that
refers to the first part of the definition. There are
actually two parts of the definition. This is I think
on page -- right at the beginning of the appendix to our
brief. If you look at page 1a of the gray brief.
You know, there are two different parts
here. In 43(B), there is "illicit trafficking in a
controlled substance ... including a drug trafficking crime
(as defined in section 924(c))." So this -- this first
part, illicit trafficking, is like a generic burglary
type offense where you need to just look at whether
the -- essentially elements correspond under a modified
categorical approach.
But then the second part of it, the drug
trafficking crime, is the one that's defined as a felony
punishable under the Controlled Substances Act. And
when you look at a felony punishable under the Controlled
Substances Act, which this Court interpreted in Lopez as
a -- an offense that is punishable as a felony under Federal
law, it is just like Nijhawan. It is an offense with
a certain extra fact. In Nijhawan, it was a fraud --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you --
MS. SAHARSKY: -- and deceit offense.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- because your time is
running out. I take it your answer would be the
same -- at least these two misdemeanors were
committed a year apart, but if they were 10 years apart,
your answer would still be the same?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes, and I think that's
because Congress has said when it wants the -- the
timing to matter. For example, in the end of the
aggravated felony definitions, Congress said it didn't
want felony convictions that were more than 15 years old
to matter. You know, Congress -- when it wants something
old not to matter, it says so, an older conviction. So
we don't think that there would be a difference for that
purpose.
So I just want to make sure I've answered the
question. We just think this is like that situation
where you have a conviction for a certain type of
offense, which here is drug possession, and an extra fact,
how it's punishable in Federal court, and that extra
fact can be established in immigration court. It's not
the kind thing that this Court has said under
Almendarez-Torres needs to be treated like an offense
element.
I should note that --- and this is the point
you made, Justice Breyer, that there was not a
recidivist enhancement available in Texas court.
Justice Kennedy, that just highlights some of the
problems that you identified in terms of the wide
variations that we would see in how similarly situated
people who have done the same things, two drug possession
offenses, would be treated differently under the
immigration laws. And that's just not what Congress
intended.
We talk in our brief -- and there's a long
list of differences in State laws, not only in the
State procedures, which vary widely from Federal court,
but in the State laws in terms of, you know, if you can
consider a second possession offense for recidivist
enhancement, or only a third or fourth; whether the
first offense has to be final, et cetera, et cetera,
et cetera. That there -- these differences would just
lead to a -- a patchwork application laws of the
immigration laws, and if there's any place where we don't
want that, it's -- it's in immigration, with respect to
immigration consequences.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was another
crime, I thought a more serious crime, though still a
misdemeanor, in this picture, but the Texas prosecutor
didn't make anything of that. Remind me of what that
was, but I thought it was a -- a more grave offense.
MS. SAHARSKY: You might be thinking of his
prior offense for domestic violence.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MS. SAHARSKY: That that may have been able
to be used to -- to enhance his -- his drug crime to an
enhanced sentence, but that -- there wasn't an
enhancement sought on that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes --
MS. SAHARSKY: That was a -- a 2003
conviction.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So we respect that
judgment on the part of the prosecutor, not to make it a
-- a ground for a recidivist charge, but we don't
respect the prosecutor -- Texas prosecutor saying I'm
just going to treat this like it's a first-time
misdemeanor; that's it.
MS. SAHARSKY: In neither case does the
prosecutor's judgment matter. What matters is the
offense conduct that was established by the conviction
in State court. What matters is the offense that the
person was convicted of and if that corresponds to a
Federal offense that was punishable as a felony in
Federal court.
It is true that some charges may be
brought and some charges may not be brought, and that
would impact what a person has been convicted of. So
there could be disparities based on that. But what
Congress decided was that it had to balance its need for
uniformity with a rule that is administrable, and the rule
that it picked as administrable is, let's look at the
offense conduct that was established by the conviction.
And when you look at that offense conduct, you have to ask
how it could be punished in Federal court. And it's that
"punishable" language that requires this more hypothetical
inquiry on how the events -- how the offense could be
treated.
And just to summarize, it is clear from the
last 20 years that Congress has had a very serious
concern about recidivist criminal aliens in the United
States, and Congress has made a judgment since 1970 in
the drug laws that two drug possession offenses should
be punishable as a felony. And under those
circumstances, a person who concededly has committed
those two drug offenses and who concededly, if taken to
Federal court, could have been punished as a felony, just
should not be able to escape the aggravated felony
designation that Congress intended for all aliens who
are similarly situated.
If the Court has no further questions, we
submit the judgment below should be affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Saharsky.
Mr. Srinivasan, you have 4 minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We usually think of
recidivism when we talk about statistics as being
repeated for any crime. This is a recidivism of a special
kind. It's repeating the same -- the same thing. Is
that essential to your argument? I know it's essential
to the -- to the Federal statute.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Right, and because it's
essential to the Federal statute, it's necessarily a part
of our argument. I don't think our argument would be
any different if the Federal statute read differently,
but you can only be punishable as a felon under Federal
law if you had a prior drug conviction, and if you had a
prior drug conviction that was in fact found to exist.
And I think, Justice Kennedy, the first point
I'd like to make in rebuttal -- there's two points I'd
like to make. The first addresses a question you
raised concerning what happens in a situation in which
the second proceeding is a Federal proceeding rather
than a State proceeding.
And I think this is important to highlight
the government's response, because if the second proceeding
is a Federal proceeding, we have a person who has a prior
conviction for drug possession. We have a person who is
then prosecuted in Federal court for a second time for
drug possession. The prosecutor by hypothesis never
brings the initial conviction into play. The court
therefore never finds that the person is a recidivist.
As a consequence, that person cannot as a matter of law
receive a felony sentence. They can only be sentenced
as a misdemeanant. But nonetheless, the government would
say that they have been, quote, "convicted of a felony,
punishable under the Controlled Substances Act," close quote --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How do you --
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- even though no felony
sentence could be imposed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How do you distinguish
Nijhawan? I mean, there what made it a Federal felony
was the fact that more than $10,000 was obtained from
the victims. But that was not found in the -- in the
State conviction. It simply was not.
MR. SRINIVASAN: There were -- there were
two things that made it a Federal felony,
Justice Scalia. First was it had to be an offense that
involved fraud.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right.
MR. SRINIVASAN: And then -- and that had to
be found by the convicting court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. SRINIVASAN: There was no issue about
that. Our --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No issue.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Our point is that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what about the
$10,000? That --
MR. SRINIVASAN: That's the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He was never convicted of
having obtained by fraud more than $10,000 from the
victim.
MR. SRINIVASAN: But -- but there's a very
important textual distinction, Justice Scalia, because
under the provision at issue in Nijhawan, the offense
had to involve fraud, and then there was a separator in
which the loss exceeds $10,000. And the Court focused
on the fact that the text read "in which." That was
critical, and another thing that was critical in
Nijhawan was that if you looked at Federal statutes and
asked, were there any that as to which the elements would
require a loss in excess of $10,000, there were none.
And because of that practical consequence,
the Court reached the conclusion that Congress would
have intended, that the $10,000 be something that the
immigration judge could have found.
We have the opposite situation here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You still had the word
"convicted."
MR. SRINIVASAN: You had -- sure.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is what you're
relying on. That word was applicable there as much as
it's applicable here, and we did not require him to
have been convicted of having obtained more than $10,000.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Because, again, the test --
the text also had "in which," which the Court found
critical -- that text is lacking here -- and because the
statute would have had no practical consequence, absent
the Court's interpretation.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's -- that --
MR. SRINIVASAN: That's not true here.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because she got to that argument
at the end, and she said my -- I wrote that, I think, and I --
when I used as an example or the text uses an example, this
provision is one where you don't look to real conduct.
She said that was a mistake, really. It
was overstated, because what they're saying is that
recidivism analogous to the $10,000 was meant to be a
real conduct aspect, not just offense of conviction, and
-- and she gave similar reasons. That's why -- similar
reasons are that the States are too mixed up in
this; it will be too difficult to look at that element
itself. So she's trying to analogize that to the
$10,000.
Now, why isn't that a good analogy?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Because for both reasons
that the Court found that you could look to the
circumstances in Nijhawan, neither of those two reasons
applies here. You don't have a textual separator. You
don't have the words "in which." All you have is the
word "convicted." And you also don't have the
consequence that the -- the provision would cease to
have any practical implications under our reading.
It would absolutely have practical
implications under our reading, because anytime a person
was found to have been a recidivist and their sentence
was raised, their maximum sentence was raised as a
consequence, they will have been deemed to have been
aggravated felon. But here, that didn't happen. You'd
have to understand that in the Federal system, even
though an individual could not as a matter of law be
sentenced as a felon, they nonetheless would have been
deemed to have been convicted of a felony, and at the
very least -- and this is the second point I'd like to
make, if I could just --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Make your second
point short.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice.
Principles of lenity which the government
agrees are potentially applicable here would dictate ruling
in our favor even if you thought that the text was
ambiguous. The principles of lenity do apply. An
individual who pleads guilty to possession in exchange
for a prosecutor's decision to refrain from charging him
as a recidivist and, therefore, could only be sentenced as
a misdemeanor I think should be allowed to be convinced
that he has been convicted of a misdemeanor rather than
a felony.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:15 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
affirmed 57:3 answers 51:19 41:12 47:2 breaking 42:20
62:24 18:4,11 30:9 anybody 28:22 14:1 21:3,4,7,12,14
40:1 51:9,22 anytime 61:21 19:19 22:18,22,25
47:13,17 53:12 56:24 apart 53:7,7 attaches 8:18 23:3,6,10,14,22
agreed 42:4 1:15 attitude 50:4 25:2,9 30:15,21
61:20 albeit 44:25 applicable 13:6 7:11,20,21,23 33:14 34:3,6
13:14 46:16 60:13,14 authority 38:3 43:4,6 50:12
Alito 11:24 12:2 applies 61:15 aware 47:9 33:21 40:2
14:23 25:13,16,20 46:15 62:14 62:23 bring 26:14
25:24 26:3,9,11,17 applying 28:9 brings 26:24
28:4,7 approach 24:23 B 58:11
28:25
48:3,19 34:25 43:2 44:2 b 38:21 50:24 broad 47:15
50:21
10:9
53:25 argue 21:4 23:24 balance 29:19 47:18,20 56:3,3
11:5
12:9 13:9
14:13,16
argument 1:13 12:17 27:8,19 burglar 42:15
20:8 21:16
34:2
45:15
31:6 12:2 16:20,20 56:5 burglars 42:14
58:17
52:2 23:21 29:23 basis 24:21 35:6 burglary 42:23
argumentative beginning 52:9 burn 32:24
22:2,2 33:16 behalf 1:16,20
arises 3:18 2:4,7,10 3:8 C
articulate 9:9 behavior 43:10 called 22:14,15
3:5 change 51:6,15 56:21 26:19 27:12,17 15:15,22,24
charged 15:21 46:15 47:25 8:19 14:10 19:9 29:10,15 32:23
11:20 charges 56:2,3 concededly 54:23 37:14 39:14
21:10 charging 62:16 56:21,22 consider 54:16 41:17 42:23
24:3 chicken 32:20,23 concedes 25:22 considerations 43:3 44:8 49:4
29:12 30:7 32:24 conceivably 6:14 7:16 49:5 55:24 56:4
33:7,18 Chief 3:3,10 11:19 consistent 24:24 58:16 59:16
15:25 16:6 conceive 13:5 43:25 44:1 60:10,15 61:17
41:1,15 18:17,25 29:20 concern 43:23 constitute 26:1 62:4,19
47:2,20 29:25 57:4 62:7 56:17 constitutes 21:15 convicting 9:15
49:14 62:10,21 concerned 40:3 30:17 9:17 59:7
62:22,23 child 42:17 concerning 58:2 constitutional conviction 6:17
41:18 23:5,9,12,13,17 45:7 11:21 12:3,10
39:13 43:2 41:21 43:5 31:15,18 32:17 contained 45:15 13:6,8,12,16,20
52:18 45:18 56:21 33:9,11 37:7 contest 7:6 14:15,24 15:19
7:24 17:8 cite 46:5 43:18 51:11 context 5:5 9:24 22:17 25:23
18:2 cited 46:3 55:22 56:9,10 11:20 27:24 26:6,19 27:5
20:9 citizen 7:13 61:1,5 39:7,7,17 47:10 28:1 31:8 36:21
class 31:8 50:23 confusion 44:5 control 36:9 40:25 41:2,4,5
45:18 51:1 58:17 39:1,6,12,19,22 14:13,16 15:7 47:3,3,12 48:4
51:10 53:1 code 37:5 46:16 40:3,18 42:6,8 18:6,14 20:8 48:5,10,22
collateral 47:22 44:15 46:15 21:16 30:18 50:22,23 53:15
combination 53:10,12,14 45:14 52:13,21 56:9 57:22,23
come 11:22 41:24 56:18,25 60:5 controls 30:13 convictions 3:12
coming 4:8 30:13 35:8 36:9 convicted 3:19 17:15,18,23
commit 15:19 connections 3:16 3:22,25 4:1 8:1 18:15 28:10,10
committed 4:7 consequence 5:4 10:24 11:2,6,14 47:16 53:13
10:7 12:6 41:7,8,10 44:14 18:3 50:16,19 determined 8:12 distribute 19:17
21:20 44:20,22,22 dealt 24:10 determines 19:21,25 24:13
45:18 46:3,18 deceit 52:1 53:3 32:11 24:15,20 28:14
51:13,21,25 decision 19:14 deterrence 50:10 domestic 55:5
44:11 55:23 56:1,11 49:20 51:20,21 difference 26:11 drug 3:12,25
56:23 57:2 58:9 62:16 27:20 28:5 6:17 7:7,7 8:3
60:5,17 61:13 deemed 61:24 53:16 11:15,21 14:12
55:24 35:7,7 43:1 deep 3:16 7:12 54:13,19 30:5 34:16,17
47:5 49:11,20 51:20 18:1 25:21,22 13:5,5 35:1 37:9,20 41:23
48:7 60:20 27:2 38:20 40:9 39:6,8,11 47:23 41:24 42:1,6
62:21 cover 21:25 22:1 45:4 46:13 48:3 47:23 49:23 44:7,12,12
19:2 20:7 cream 42:17 define 12:14,15 differently 54:9 50:1,2 52:13,19
30:9 crime 4:7 10:25 12:16 49:9 57:20 53:21 54:8 55:8
39:4 41:5 11:2 18:20 defined 13:20 difficult 18:19 56:19,19,22
35:23 52:13,20 54:25 defines 12:9,10 disagree 39:5 58:10
57:13 defining 51:22 discovered 20:17 due 39:2,10
5:8 7:17 criminal 36:11 33:22 43:1 52:7 discretionary
36:11 39:7,8,17 52:8 3:14,17 6:14,16 E
10:24 39:20 40:19 definitions 53:12 6:22 7:4,25 E 2:1 3:1,1
42:12 56:17 degree 19:19 17:9,21 18:2 earlier 51:19
critical 10:21 Department 20:1,10 27:25 easier 18:22
14:20,22 59:25,25 60:18 1:19 39:16 easy 22:3,5,6
15:1 crucial 15:6 depend 16:5 discussing 38:1 effect 4:22 7:2
16:9 17:2 crux 12:2 depends 43:1 discussion 49:3 38:4
19:13 CSA 32:3,11 deportation 17:6 disparities 56:5 either 45:9
25:21 45:21 46:20 deprivation dispensation element 22:19
27:9 Custis 47:14 48:11,23 4:10,14 29:3,4 39:2
29:18 48:17 deprived 48:6 dispute 30:5,6 49:4,10 54:1
32:5 designation distinction 10:21 61:8
34:12,15 D 56:25 27:9,19 59:20 elements 8:7,10
35:5 D 3:1 despite 47:21 distinguish 9:5 22:16 23:6
ex 15:17 feature 19:11 25:17,17,22 following 17:2
44:19 exact 30:15 Federal 8:21,23 26:15 27:3,14 24:6
52:17 exactly 9:6 25:8 9:1 10:6,11,17 27:25 28:23 follows 44:1
44:22 10:24 11:5,7,10 29:8,9,10 30:9 footnote 45:19
26:7 27:6 43:13 14:1,20,22 15:1 31:15,18 33:1 forbidden 50:20
exceeds 59:23 19:16,17 20:7 37:1,1,2,13,16 forget 31:4 33:2
exercise 7:10,22 26:4,4,23 27:11 51:9,22 52:20 13:13,15,17
40:4 extent 42:25 30:7,21 31:6,15 56:20,23,24 formalistic 27:19
extra 51:24 52:1 36:17,18,19 final 54:18 found 8:17,19
55:10 extremely 35:6 37:18 38:1,12 finding 4:1 8:4,8 15:1,21 27:21
26:18 F 41:22,23 44:11 12:16,17 13:24 60:17 61:13,22
faced 48:21 44:12,16,24 13:25 15:2,2,14 four 24:11 33:3
14:24 15:8 51:17 52:24 17:11 19:4,24 fourth 54:17
57:23 58:23 felon 11:8,13,16 first 3:4 11:13 29:18 57:2
factor 29:6,12 57:21 61:25 34:21 35:1 G
facts 20:24 51:24 felony 3:20,22 38:22 39:3 general 1:7,19
38:6 family 3:16 7:12 10:17,17,20,22 57:24 58:1 59:3 17:17,17 47:15
44:19,21 far 47:9 10:24 11:4,18 first-time 55:18 47:21
53:23 farmhouse 32:24 11:21 14:4,8,16 fit 10:18 generally 50:7
56:9 favor 4:11 7:12 15:4,7,10,14,16 five 16:16,25 generic 52:15
56:13 7:22 21:15,22 22:3 focused 59:23 38:17 43:20
35:11,16 include 12:4 13:1 60:20
40:6 H I includes 13:17 interpreted
45:3 53:2 H 1:6 ice 42:17 including 17:18 33:25 52:23
54:24 55:6 happen 11:25 iceberg 18:12,12 52:13 interpreting
17:5,7 25:25 identified 54:6 incorporated 36:7
42:4 36:16 38:8 46:7 IJ 45:10,10 incorporates 48:10
33:8,18 40:7,8 illicit 18:5,13,20 31:11 49:6 51:1
39:24 happens 5:25 18:22 52:12,15 individual 4:20 Isn't 11:24 12:2
19:13 22:11 imagine 20:13 11:19 19:23 13:3
35:22 hard 36:10 3:18 12:9 13:7 51:7 62:2,15 48:25 59:9,11
39:25 harm 42:22 13:8,20 14:10 individualized 59:21
51:13,15 harmed 42:16 19:12 30:4 37:5 39:20 issues 25:6
55:18 hear 3:3 38:8 39:7,8,12 individuals 3:24 it's 38:18 50:9
42:14 41:3,5 46:16 39:13 I'd 29:18 57:25
5:6 58:15 he's 7:3 15:8 54:10,21,22,23 ineligible 3:14 I've 33:2 34:8
42:15 60:7 7:24 17:8,19 53:18
highlights 54:5 impact 56:4 20:10 J
Honor 4:21 24:7 30:16 44:14 22:21 31:23,25 judge 25:23
hypothesis 19:4 imposing 25:24 intent 19:16,21 36:8,9 37:5,19
hypothetical 14:3 29:17 24:20 28:16,24 55:15,21 56:18
17:5,22 18:1 improperly 6:6 28:25 42:1 57:3
62:15 42:13 56:12 37:15,16 38:2 interesting 45:25 jurisprudence
4:4,16 5:9 K 62:2 M mistake 61:2
6:2,5 ken 24:17 lawful 3:11 6:3 majority 33:4 mixed 43:21,23
8:7 Kennedy 5:24 laws 18:9 39:22 March 1:10 61:7
9:4 6:2,5,10,11 40:21 50:2 marijuana 20:14 modified 43:1
10:1,5 16:16,19 17:1,4 54:10,13,15,20 35:17,24 41:18 44:2 52:17
17:10,14 36:14 54:21 56:19 47:3 mootness 4:5,17
12:2 36:16 37:11,24 lead 29:10 36:1 matter 1:12 6:7 5:5
38:11,14 40:23 54:20 16:15 20:17 morning 3:4
14:2,9,21 49:14,18,22 lenity 62:11,14 24:19 28:8 29:2
16:6 54:5 57:11,24 let's 14:9,10,10 31:20 38:24 N
kind 38:7 53:24 43:15 47:2 56:8 53:11,14,15 N 2:1,1 3:1
57:14 level 26:15 55:21 58:13 narrow 47:9,12
20:11 knock 40:10 Lewis 43:10,20 62:2,24 47:16
21:3,4,7 know 8:22 10:18 life 41:16 matters 29:7 Nationality 3:18
13:21,24 20:11 line 21:8 36:10 55:21,23 12:9 13:9,21
21:10 23:24 list 43:12 54:13 maximum 14:1,5 necessarily 16:6
23:3,6,10 24:22 25:3 lists 43:12 26:21 27:1,7 22:23 23:2
33:17 41:13,21 logical 16:20 28:19 29:6,16 46:12 57:18
25:2,9 48:13 50:24 long 43:12 46:11 61:23 necessary 22:21
52:11 53:14 54:12 mean 17:14 29:13 46:10
54:15 57:15 longer 7:3 18:20 19:23 need 8:20 9:1
28:4,7 Long-time 3:11 23:12 24:2 16:13 20:12
look 21:25 22:10
31:24 23:17 24:17
27:10 28:11
34:3 32:12 33:18
35:11 35:2 39:23 40:1
33:25 mentioned 34:12 neither 47:2
36:13,14 43:2,8 44:10
37:2 56:12 mind 13:19 55:20 61:14
37:8,11 52:10,16,22
56:8,10 61:1,8
33:5 minutes 57:6 35:23 42:15
61:13
misdemeanant 47:10,19 49:4
40:6,22 looked 60:1
42:9,19 looking 21:17
10:16 14:1 misdemeanor new 49:25
44:24 32:17 43:7
19:5 20:16 4:2 8:5 10:15 NICOLE 1:18
46:1 Lopez 4:18 19:14
22:3 11:3 14:2,6,7 2:6 29:23
48:3,19 21:11,13,14
27:20 14:12 15:5 27:2 night 42:21
24:11,24 30:12
30:10 27:15 29:15,16 Nijhawan 24:24
52:4 53:2 30:16 33:25
31:6,15 31:9,16 32:19 31:2 32:6 33:8
54:3,5,24 35:2,12 36:6
34:6 32:22 34:22 43:11,12,20
57:4 44:1,3,5,14
37:3 50:23 55:1,19 44:1,4,23 51:20
58:18 45:18 46:18
41:3 62:18,19 51:25 52:4,25
59:3,5,8 51:5,13 52:23
44:17 misdemeanors 53:1 58:22
loss 52:2 59:23
51:6,14,15 53:6 59:21 60:1
60:3
53:21,25 54:16 P 11:22 17:15 50:15 53:21
offenses 3:12 parity 27:16 place 54:21 62:12
18:10 20:3 part 12:23 34:10 play 58:11 practical 60:4,19
56:19,22 55:15 57:18 please 3:10 30:1 precisely 8:23
45:19
59:17 old 53:13,15 pointed 45:4 presented 41:15
older 53:15 46:20 presentencing
41:10 opening 13:11 pop 42:21 presumed 41:11
opinion 12:13 7:21 43:19,25 prevailed 35:13
54:8
7:25
10:14 11:7 33:3 35:1 24:20 31:10 principal 9:3
14:12 opportunity 7:19 possessed 19:20 principles 62:11
19:2,16,17 38:21 39:3 28:14 62:14
12:22
20:4,6 40:10,13 possession 3:12 prior 6:8 9:18,22
14:5,6
21:15 opposed 27:14 3:25 6:17 7:7,8 12:24 14:23
17:8
47:24 8:3,21 11:14,15 15:19 17:15,18
20:9,25
24:15 opposite 60:8 11:21 15:18,19 20:18 25:23
29:8,15
28:15 oral 1:12 2:2,5 15:21,23,24 26:6 27:5 28:1
35:21
29:4,9 3:7 29:23 16:22 17:13 28:1 41:11 45:3
41:6
order 4:25 5:1,17 18:13,15,22 45:6,12 46:24
48:21
5:20,21,22 6:9 19:2,5,16,18,21 47:15 48:4,10
55:24 56:4
6:23,24 7:1,24 19:24 20:13,19 48:22 50:23
58:7,8,12
11:18 26:14 24:13,14,16,18 55:5 57:22,23
61:21
36:8 29:13 25:17 26:2,5 58:7
38:20 original 4:25 27:14,15,25 probably 22:10
44:6,7,10 5:16,19,22 6:17 28:15,15,17,23 problem 4:5
outcome 51:16 30:6 34:17,17 20:14 41:7
3:8,24
47:1 49:4 51:16 34:20 36:18,19 problems 54:6
30:4
outlined 18:7 37:9,20 40:8 procedural 5:4
49:8 57:9
51:15,17 overstated 61:3 41:15 42:1,3 procedure 38:25
52:1,16 overturning 44:7,12,13 procedures
53:3 43:20 45:17,20 46:19 38:10 39:18,19
41:9 46:6 proven 26:14 purposes 12:3,5 reached 60:5 15:12,18,20,22
40:25 18:11 25:18 read 23:11 31:3,4 15:22,24 16:1
54:14 proving 45:5 28:13,19,20 31:7,13 33:15 16:17,21,23
12:21 18:19 pursuant 7:1 43:16 49:15 18:15,18,22
47:11 58:3 27:22 39:21,21 48:24 57:20 59:24 19:1,5 26:2
43:13 46:3 52:3 pussycat 42:15 reading 20:15 27:14 36:11
40:19 41:3 61:18 61:19,21 41:17 46:19
47:21 provisions 16:17 Q real 41:16 61:1,5 47:6 49:7 50:7
47:18,24 51:9 qualifies 45:20 really 22:11 61:2 55:16 56:17
35:5 qualifying 20:3 42:15 recognize 8:13
34:7 4:2 8:1,5 10:8 5:8 7:6,9,17,20 reasons 11:13 44:23 45:19
34:4 11:12 15:7,12 25:2,10,14 32:9 61:14 recognizes 19:14
23:4,8,11 21:15,22 30:17 35:4,6 38:3,4 29:19 57:8,25 reentry 4:22 5:11
31:5,15 30:19 31:9 41:2 42:10,23 receive 29:16 5:14 6:1
32:18 32:10,11 33:13 43:15 44:6,13 58:14 referring 30:24
33:24 34:1,21 44:15 47:9,12 receives 28:1 48:17
37:1,3,17,18 50:13 53:19 8:4,9 9:2,7,9 refrain 62:16
11:7 45:14,17,20 questions 29:18 13:1,24 15:2,3 regardless 6:8
30:7 58:9 46:20 48:17 32:2 51:19 57:2 15:11,15 16:3,8 regular 23:19
53:22 55:25 41:22 29:13 31:11,12 4:24 5:3,16,22
58:17 3:23 33:23 36:21,23 37:14 relevant 3:20
20:5 26:24 30:8 31:17 36:8 43:17 44:8 45:2 27:10 35:6 46:6
55:1,15 37:4,15 50:8,9 45:6 47:1 48:4 relief 3:15,17
58:10 56:11,23 48:24,25 49:2,3 6:16,22 7:4,10
punishment 50:5,16,22 20:1,10 38:16
58:2
41:15,19 31:12 46:8 49:6 61:4 relying 60:13
50:17,20 recidivist 8:17 remaining 57:7
55:21 45:16 50:7 11:17,18 13:22 removability
purpose 53:17 14:14,17 15:9 6:20 7:6
25:18,19,20 30:8 46:18 14:1,2,4,5,6 simply 43:20
5:1 35:14 38:14 says 12:22 13:12 21:9 22:14,15 situated 7:18
40:17 48:6,11 20:13 21:14 23:1,8 25:24 54:7 57:1
6:8,23,24 48:23 49:18 23:14 31:8,11 27:1,2,3 28:2 situation 14:20
20:1 51:3 52:9 57:17 32:19 33:23 29:11,14,16,17 24:11 26:12
59:5,8 35:2 45:16 42:4 55:9 58:14 27:4 29:3 47:17
7:1,15 ROBERTS 3:3 10:1,5,10,13,19 20:25 58:14 situations 28:5
39:15 15:25 18:17 10:23 11:3,10 62:3,17 skip 25:9
62:21 15:6,14 16:10 9:19 25:21 small 35:17
rule 21:8 22:9,9 59:20 60:9,12 34:14 39:17 27:13 28:13
51:23 ruling 62:12 second 6:3 10:14 separator 59:22 sorry 38:13 46:2
56:12 30:7 32:8,12 serious 30:3 48:9
30:20 31:22 62:5,7 seriousness 37:22 44:24
34:10 35:11,15 46:4,6,20 47:25 46:11 55:10
39:5 36:5,15,25 37:9 48:18 52:14 severely 50:9 soul 42:16
48:9 37:17 38:6,13 secured 46:25 she's 61:9 speak 41:20
54:22 38:15 39:5,25 47:5 shifting 46:14 special 48:15
40:17 41:20 see 5:18 21:7 short 62:8 57:13
29:24 44:25 45:13,24 31:5 41:16 43:2 shown 50:9 3:7 57:8
49:16,19 50:6 50:17 54:7 side 41:14,14 2:3,9 3:6,7,9
36:2 55:20 57:5 sees 42:17 54:7 57:1 6:24 8:10,15,25
12:5 44:22 45:9 straighten 43:22 15:17 17:17 thereof 45:9
13:2,4 46:24 48:4 49:9 strong 36:20,20 24:4 27:11 there's 4:25
15:13 50:15 51:4,6,14 subject 3:13 11:4 35:11 37:6 11:16,22 17:24
51:15 54:13,14 14:5 15:3,4 49:25 50:20 21:8 27:7 30:22
17:7,12 54:15 55:23 37:13 49:6 53:5 32:8 33:12
20:22 58:4,25 submission 9:3 taken 6:13,17 35:25 36:3
States 1:1,13 submit 57:3 17:23 27:5 38:22 41:7 49:2
3:13 7:13 12:14 submitted 62:22 36:10 56:22 54:12,21
16:7,16,21,25 62:24 takes 25:23 they're 28:16,17
25:1,7 19:15,15,18,18 subset 18:13 talk 44:3 54:12 29:9 48:12 61:3
26:1 19:22 20:2,3,4 substance 18:6 57:12 thing 6:21 31:2,3
28:3,6 24:14 39:15 18:14 30:18 talked 24:12 33:10,18 42:11
48:12 46:17 56:18 52:13 talking 13:7 43:11,14 49:10
61:7 Substances 3:23 14:10,11 17:20 50:24 52:3
59:1,6,9 State's 18:10 4:3 8:2,5,14 18:5 22:6 25:3 53:24 57:14
36:7 10:9,16 11:5,11 25:4 31:1 35:16 59:25
statistics 57:12 14:13,16 15:8 39:18 40:12,23 things 14:19
62:9 statute 10:18 20:8 21:16 46:9 26:16 54:8 59:2
9:8,14 31:17 32:18,19 suggest 46:24 tells 31:1 33:8 21:2 22:5,13,14
33:9,12,15,17 suggesting 24:17 ten 16:22 22:20 23:16
10:2,4 33:19 34:7,9 51:4 term 12:3 13:12 24:24 25:5,12
12:1 36:1,2 43:9,10 summarize terms 38:17 26:21 27:10
43:16,17 45:1,4 56:15 39:10 40:20 28:6,22 30:16
18:9,9 48:5 50:14,18 suppose 20:17 46:16,17 54:6 34:25 36:5 39:1
50:19,25,25 25:16 28:11 54:15 40:5 41:7 43:24
51:4 57:16,18 32:18 42:11 test 60:16 48:12,16 49:1,2
57:20 60:19 Supreme 1:1,13 Texas 31:17 51:19 52:6,8
statutes 9:8 sure 5:9 14:18 43:16,16 54:4 53:9,16,19
23:8,18 12:14 13:5 18:24 21:6 24:8 55:1,17 57:11,19,24
24:18 30:24 60:1 25:8 36:20 text 59:24 60:17 58:5 60:24
26:13 statutory 26:20 40:21 44:4 60:18,25 62:13 62:18
27:7 28:19 29:6 53:18 60:11 textual 59:20 thinking 55:4
30:10 36:7 system 26:4,4,24 61:15 third 23:20 54:17
31:4 stay 7:4 27:12,13,16,17 Thank 3:9 29:20 thought 6:5,5
33:9,11 stays 6:7 62:1 57:4,10 62:9,21 38:18 40:15
34:6,7,9 steal 32:19 42:21 that's 10:20 44:15 46:5 50:2
35:3,9,9 stealing 32:23 T 16:10 22:21 51:11 54:25
38:9 step 31:23 T 2:1,1 32:4 42:11 55:3 62:13
41:6,8 stick 47:3 table 14:4 49:10 50:4 53:9 three 33:3 34:9
stole 32:24 take 4:12 5:6 59:15 60:21 threshold 4:5
stops 49:25 6:15,23 14:23 theory 45:10 thrust 16:19
40:9 31:25 32:1 vary 54:14 60:13 61:17 58:23 59:14,17
48:6 53:4 type 47:18 52:16 victim 59:18 words 10:8 20:15 59:23 60:3,6,15
53:20 victims 58:24 21:18,23,25 61:4,10
43:22 38:4 W working 50:10 1
understand 4:6 30:9 33:17 36:2 worrying 42:11 10 35:19 53:7
42:1 4:9 5:10 12:7 44:4 51:5 53:13 50:12,14 10a 33:21
24:16 35:12 53:18 54:22 worse 50:5 10:14 1:14 3:2
40:14 understanding 42:21 51:8 17:12 18:1 26:1 1101(a)(48)(A)
55:18 24:7,9 wants 49:8 53:10 27:15 13:11
53:25 12:14 20:2 Washington 1:9 33:3,7,7 1970 56:18
56:14 uniformity 56:7 1:16,19 wrong 6:11 25:6
7:13 12:14 wasn't 5:14 X 20 35:18 36:10
56:17 way 5:15 6:13,16 x 1:2,8 56:16
32:24 35:25 21 12:21 40:2
42:10
57:11 ways 12:15 13:5 20:20 21:1
3
Wednesday 1:10 31:10 53:7
4
14:19 43(B) 52:12
18:25
30:25 35:16 15:10 18:20 5
28:5 30:5
35:1,17
37:19
we've 42:4 60:12 57 2:10
40:7 42:6
47:16 what's 16:1 you've 8:2 42:13
53:6
56:19,22 Z
wide 54:6 6 45:19 46:19
59:2 zero 20:14
13:11
45:15 46:20
46:4
12:21 39:18
47:25
52:14
