IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JASON PEPPER, :
Petitioner : No. 09-6822
v. :
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, December 6, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ALFREDO PARRISH, ESQ., Des Moines, Iowa; Tallahassee,
Florida; appointed by this Court; on behalf of
Petitioner.
ROY W. McLEESE, III, ESQ., Acting Deputy Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
Respondent, in support of Petitioner.
ADAM G. CIONGOLI, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; appointed by
this Court; for amicus curiae, in support of the
judgment below.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ALFREDO PARRISH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ROY W. McLEESE, III, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent,
in support of the Petitioner 19
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ADAM G. CIONGOLI, ESQ.
As amicus curiae, in support of the
judgment below 39
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ALFREDO PARRISH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next this morning in Case 09-6822, Pepper v. United
States.
Mr. Parrish.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALFREDO PARRISH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. PARRISH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Having successfully completed drug treatment
in prison and having come home to succeed as a college
student, valued employee, and family man, Jason Pepper
presents to this Court two questions: Whether
post-sentencing rehabilitation is a permissible basis
for a downward variance from the sentencing guidelines
at resentencing, and whether the district court judge in
Pepper's resentencing was bound by the law of the case
doctrine in its 5K departure ruling absent new facts,
changes in the controlling law, or to avoid a manifest
injustice.
Post-sentencing rehabilitation has
traditionally been a relevant factor for judges to
consider and is now a permissible ground for a
non-guideline sentence. 3553(a) and 3661 are the
authorities permitting post-sentencing rehabilitation as
a consideration for variance.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I think
you -- I think you've got a difficult job navigating
between your two issues. It seems on the first one, the
40 percent to 20 percent, you're saying: Look, you've
got to stick with what you did before. And when it gets
to the post-sentencing consideration, you're saying:
Well, we can -- all bets are off; we can start -- start
anew; we can look at things that have happened since.
Is there a way you reconcile that -
those -- that tension?
MR. PARRISH: They're like apples and
oranges. The law of the case doctrine is what you refer
to as a matter that's left in the district court. The
other issue of the -- whether or not the individual
qualifies for downward variance is a completely separate
issue. The law of the case remains with the district
court judge.
In the other issue that we have, it's
whether or not he's entitled to a downward variance
based upon the book of remedies. So they are not, in
fact, the same issues.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If the law of the case -
MR. PARRISH: And there is no tension -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If the law in the case is
left to the district court, then the district court can
say, well, the law of the case -- that's what that other
judge said, but it was a question of what's a reasonable
time, and I'm -- I appraise it differently.
The -- the judgment has been vacated, the
sentence has been vacated, so how does the law of the
case survive? I mean, is -- the judgment is no
longer -
MR. PARRISH: The law of the case survives
on a couple of basic principles. One, there has to be
new facts that the district court judge heard; there has
to be a change of controlling law; and there has to be a
reason to avoid a manifest injustice.
If you go back to the 5K, one departure that
the first judge made the decision on, that law -- that
was the law of the case. That percentage followed
Mr. Pepper straight through the process. That's a
totally separate ruling from any of the other factors in
this case that relate to his downward variance.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can a district judge say
later on in the process: I made a ruling earlier in the
case; I've since done a lot of research, and I now think
that that ruling was wrong?
MR. PARRISH: Absolutely, they can do that.
The circumstances would be, did they see new facts? Was
there a change of controlling law? The reason we do
this is because we want to have confidence in that
decision to make sure litigants don't go judge shopping.
So that's part of the reason this law of the
case doctrine is in there. Even in Judge Posner's
Seventh Circuit decision we cite in our brief, you defer
to the first judge. But any time a judge can
reconsider; there's no problem with that.
But the law of the case in the 5K departure,
when the first district judge heard substantial evidence
with regard to the issue of cooperation, and that's what
he did. When the next judge heard it, she heard no new
facts, no change in controlling law, and absolutely
heard no evidence with regard to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's kind of
a fortuitous situation, then. You're sort of saying if
you end up with the same judge, she can reconsider her
own prior determination. But if you, for whatever
reason, the death of the first judge, you're in a
different judge, she's bound by what went before. That
doesn't seem right.
MR. PARRISH: Well, that's an excellent
example -- bound by -- but you have to look at the law
of the case and make a decision whether or not new facts
came in, there was a change of controlling law.
Otherwise, you are still stuck, as law of the case, with
that particular information. If new facts came in -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even with the original
judge?
MR. PARRISH: Even with the original judge.
Absolutely, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Unless there are new facts
or some -- some new -
MR. PARRISH: New facts, a change in
controlling law, or other factor. It's a basic concept,
and that's why a lot of cases are not floating around
about that. Plus the government -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm -- I'm a
little confused.
MR. PARRISH: Sure.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought that the
entire premise of Booker was that judges should have
full discretion under 3553 to balance the factors that
are required by the statute to be balanced and to come
to what they believe is the appropriate sentence.
If we impose, in a resentencing, in a remand
order that has vacated a prior sentence, a limitation on
that power, don't we in turn do exactly what you're
arguing in your first half of your appeal, which is
unconstitutionally tie the hands of the judge? I think
that was what Justice -- the Chief Justice was getting
to in his first question.
MR. PARRISH: That's absolutely -- that's
why they are apples and oranges. If you go to the
Booker decision with regard to Mr. Pepper -- and Mr.
Pepper's decision is under the remedial remedy that we
are asking that you impose in this case -- Mr. Pepper's
case is still on direct appeal.
As a matter of fact, if the restrictions
placed upon 3742(g)(2), if they remained, Mr. Booker
would not have gotten the advantage of the remedial
ruling in the case. Actually, he was entitled to it as
part of the Sixth Amendment.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why isn't a new
sentence just that: A new sentence? And the judge,
whoever the judge is, can do what they're supposed to
do, which is to look at all of the factors and weigh
them as that judge believes is appropriate, assuming the
remand order is not a limited order.
MR. PARRISH: They can look at all of the
facts, if there are new facts presented. The difference
is, in the law of the case, there were no new facts. In
this case, there were new facts to consider, which would
be part of the post-sentencing rehabilitation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well -
MR. PARRISH: In that issue, the Eighth
Circuit rule that prohibited this was not even part of
the 3742(g)(2) statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but one -- one of the
new facts that -- that is before a judge on remand is
that part of the basis for his decision has been
eliminated. He -- he gave additional time because of a
certain factor, and the court of appeals says: Oh, no,
you can't look at that factor. And then he looks at the
whole thing. He says: Gee, without that factor this
guy is getting off scot-free.
You mean he cannot -- he cannot readjust his
other discretionary judgments in light of the fact that
this additional factor doesn't exist? That seems
rather -- I don't -- counterintuitive, I guess.
MR. PARRISH: Well -- well, Justice Scalia,
under the issue that's presented to the Court, if you
mix law of the case doctrine with the 3742 problem, it
creates a problem in analysis. That's why they have to
be analyzed separately.
A judge can look at new facts, even under
the remand statute, now that they are restricted to the
facts that were part of the first case. That's what
3742(g)(2) does. It makes the guideline sentences
mandatory on remand. That's the problem with it.
If they become mandatory on remand, the
problem is nobody gets the advantage of the Booker
remedial ruling of it directly, and all sentences on
remand are mandatory. Even in the Booker decision, you
make it -- which Mr. Pepper was a recipient of, because
his case was going on during that time -- he did not
ever get the benefit of the Booker decision. When it
was sent back, he never did. Mr. Booker, under
3742(g)(2), never would have gotten that advantage.
And there were several other factors that
were coming into play where people would never get
advantage of the Booker ruling.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what do you do with
3742(g)(2)?
MR. PARRISH: You excise it. You discussed
it in the Booker decision. And in the Booker decision,
you indicated, Justice Ginsburg, that you excised two of
the other -- 3553(b); you also exercise -- excised
3742(e), which made the sentences on remand mandatory.
In this case, 3742(g)(2)(A) and (B) were
left open. And what happens then, the district court
judge has to come back. Once they look at the decision,
they are bound within those original facts. They can't
go outside of those facts to decide something different
or to permit a variance.
The Eighth Circuit didn't use that rule.
What we are suggesting is that you excise that rule.
You excise 3742(g)(2) and you excise (A) and (B) of that
section.
JUSTICE ALITO: Would it be consistent with
Booker for Congress to pass a statute that says the
following? When a judge initially imposes a sentence,
the judge must specify all of the factors that the judge
thinks are relevant to that sentence, whether it's going
to be a sentence within the guidelines or a sentence
that's outside of the guidelines, and if there is then a
remand, the judge may impose a sentence based on the
factors that were listed at the initial sentencing but
not based on any other factors.
MR. PARRISH: Justice Alito, Congress could
do that. Unfortunately, that's not what they did in
this case. The 3742, which came down as part of the
PROTECT Act -- in that case, Booker came after that.
So, consequently, 3742(g)(2) is problematic. It -
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that exactly what
3742(g)(2) does?
MR. PARRISH: It does not.
JUSTICE ALITO: It says -- well, under
3553(c), the sentencing judge is supposed to explain the
factors that justify the sentence that's imposed. And
that would -- that means explain a sentence outside of
the guidelines; also explain why the judge chooses a
particular sentence within the guidelines range.
MR. PARRISH: Well, what -
JUSTICE ALITO: And 3742(g)(2) says that
when there's a remand, the judge may take into account
all the factors that were mentioned the first time, but
not other factors.
MR. PARRISH: Well, Justice Alito, let me
give you an example. What if they didn't state the
reasons and you go up on the variance from the district
court decision saying you didn't get the stated reasons?
The appellate court then sends that decision back, and
the judge is then bound by those facts. And if they
didn't find all of the facts, suppose again they went up
on a presumption that the guidelines were, in fact,
reasonable. In that instance, you wouldn't get anything
for the judge to work from.
And, absolutely, they work from facts now
within the guidelines. You take the Stapleton case
that's in the Eighth Circuit that's cited in our brief.
They will increase the guidelines within the guidelines
on new facts. Yet, you can't take those same new facts
and then use them to assist your clients under 3553 -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Has the Sentencing -
MR. PARRISH: -- which goes against all of
the things -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is the Sentencing
Commission -- it still has that guideline that you
can -- you can depart -- you can lower within the
guideline, but not beyond it?
MR. PARRISH: Correct. You mean under the
post-sentencing rehabilitation?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. Is it -
MR. PARRISH: They have it as a bar, a
policy bar, but the Kimbrough decision really indicates
that the courts are not supposed to use that as only one
factor. You're supposed to look at all of the rest of
the factors. And, as a matter of fact, the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But as far as the
Sentencing Commission itself is concerned, its position
is still that postconviction behavior does not warrant a
below-the-guideline sentence?
MR. PARRISH: Correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That -
MR. PARRISH: And it comes right out of the
Eighth Circuit, which was not based upon empirical data,
like a lot of these other issues are based on that they
create as policy matters. But, under Kimbrough, you
said policy matters are only one consideration; you
must, in fact, look at all the other factors.
You also said it in Rita, too. You're not
bound by just one of the factors. The court has to look
at everything in order to be able to make a decision to
be consistent with all of the other decisions that
you've written in this area.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that Mr. Pepper had
an identical twin, and suppose that Mr. Pepper and his
twin engaged in the same criminal conduct. They're
charged with the same offenses; they're tried together;
they're convicted of exactly the same offenses; they're
sentenced on the same day.
Between sentencing and the time of the
appeal, they -- they rehabilitate themselves in exactly
the same way. The twin's sentence is affirmed on
appeal, and Pepper's sentence is overturned and he is -
he gets a remand for a new sentence.
Why is it justified for Mr. Pepper to get
credit for post-sentencing rehabilitation, but his twin
does not?
MR. PARRISH: Well, in that instance, the
question is the guidelines accept the fact of some
disparity, and there's what's called "warranted
disparity." Mr. Pepper did exactly everything that we
want a person convicted of a crime to do. He exceeded
it. And in that instance, if his case comes back down,
it doesn't fall on any concept of unwarranted disparity.
There is a difference. There's a difference with every
individual who faces -
JUSTICE ALITO: His twin -- his twin did
everything that was expected of him, too, but he doesn't
get any credit for the rehabilitation. He just gets
good time credit for good conduct while he's
incarcerated.
MR. PARRISH: But our guidelines and our
laws make situations where people who are unique and
who, in fact, exceed don't fall into a separate category
of being unwarranted disparity.
The -- the emphasis is on "unwarranted."
There is some disparity, and if a person is unique and
that person does, in fact, under 3353 factors, meet all
of the things that require us to look at a person as an
individual, that's what we want in our society. And
that's what your cases -- 3553, 3661 -- that's what they
indicate. You look at the person as an individual.
And, true enough, some disparity will be
there, but it's a warranted disparity. And it's
something that the court can look at, along with all of
the other factors.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's -- it's
warranted that the one get the benefit, and it's
unwarranted that the other does not. I mean, the
departure in the case of the one who gets
reconsideration is warranted, but that doesn't mean that
the disparity is warranted.
MR. PARRISH: Well, it would be on a
variance and, as you know, under the Gall decision,
Chief Justice Roberts, you can look at all of the other
factors. Under the departure theory, it's a little bit
different. They're little bit narrower, given it's more
restrictive, and there's other factors that come into
play.
Under the variance theory, you have to look
at the entire individual. So if that individual can
demonstrate that they have made improvements -- not just
gone to drug classes but completed them successfully;
not just worked as an employee but also excelled and got
on a management track after conviction; not just went to
college but got on the dean's list and made straight A's
-- those are the factors that we want these individuals
to have.
And that's why 3553(a) allows us that
latitude, and 3661, which has a long history based upon
no limitation being placed upon the district court
judge -- these are the things we want these people to
have.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there a guideline that
says that there cannot be a departure for rehabilitation
after an initial sentencing that's set aside?
MR. PARRISH: It's not a guideline. There's
a policy out of the Eighth Circuit -
JUSTICE BREYER: No. So there's no
guideline. So as far as the answer to Justice
Ginsburg -- what I thought was her question, that is -
the guidelines initially said that the Commission has
the power to limit departures -
MR. PARRISH: That's right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- but it doesn't do it,
except for race and gender -
MR. PARRISH: And age and factors like -
that's absolutely right, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and age. That's right.
So under the guidelines, a judge can depart for any
reason except those few forbidden things, which I think
are properly forbidden.
MR. PARRISH: And that's the gram thing -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Yes. And -
MR. PARRISH: -- the statutory -- the
departure from -
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and that's still the
law. That's still the law.
MR. PARRISH: Correct. That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: And so it's -- it's the
circuits that have made this thing up.
MR. PARRISH: The Eighth Circuit created it
out of whole cloth following the Sims case. It was a
policy that was actually adopted by the guidelines in
the year 2000. Prior to that, there were about eight
circuits that allowed post-sentencing rehabilitation.
Now, even under the new analysis, there are about six
circuits that allow it.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what would the source
of law be to make up such a thing? I mean, what is the
source -
MR. PARRISH: No source of law -- it's a
policy -
JUSTICE BREYER: What law gives the right to
the -- to -- a -- a circuit, to make that up, would have
to say it was an unreasonable thing to do.
Now, I guess you could have an argument
either way on that, but it doesn't strike me off the bat
as unreasonable, where a person has rehabilitated
himself, to take that into account.
MR. PARRISH: I would agree with you.
JUSTICE BREYER: And we would have the power
to say that.
MR. PARRISH: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about 3742(g)(2)?
JUSTICE BREYER: I wasn't going to bring
that up.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what we're arguing
about.
JUSTICE BREYER: No -
MR. PARRISH: It is what we're arguing
about, not about the policy, because they didn't even
use that, Justice Scalia, in making their decision.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You may want to -
MR. PARRISH: I would like to reserve my
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- reserve time.
Thank you, counsel.
MR. PARRISH: Thank you so much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. McLeese.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROY W. McLEESE, III,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT,
IN SUPPORT OF THE PETITIONER
MR. McLEESE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
There is no valid basis to categorically bar
variances under the -- variances from the guidelines
based on post-sentencing rehabilitation. That's true
for four primary reasons.
First, it's undisputed that post-sentencing
rehabilitation is logically irrelevant to statutory
sentencing factors in 3553(a), including the need for
deterrents and the need to protect the safety of the
community.
Second, the guidelines themselves authorize
consideration of presentencing rehabilitation to a
limited extent, because it's permissible under the
guidelines to consider presentencing rehabilitation in
selecting a sentence with inside the guideline range.
What the guidelines do prohibit, and there
is a provision in the guidelines that does prohibit,
the -- a departure from the guidelines based on
post-sentencing rehabilitation. The guidelines prohibit
that, but the judgment of the Commission about how much
weight that factor can be given after Booker in an
advisory guideline regime is advisory rather than
mandatory.
Third -
JUSTICE BREYER: Wait. Which guideline?
What guideline prohibits that?
MR. McLEESE: 5K2.19.
And, third, contrary to the suggestion of
amicus, there is no general principle in our law that at
a resentencing, new information may not be considered.
To the contrary, the consistent assumption of the law is
that at a resentencing, you take the defendant as you
find him as of the time of resentencing. That's clear
from this Court's decisions in Pearce and in Wasman.
It's clear from the large body of cases from the lower
courts cited in Petitioner's brief at pages 42 through
44. That's the way the guidelines operate. So there is
no general principle that you cannot consider new
information.
Now, it's true, as Justice Alito's question
suggested earlier, that that can result in differences
of opportunity, where one defendant will have an
opportunity for a resentence and new information will be
considered as to that defendant; a similarly situated
defendant will not get a resentencing.
But that opportunity is sometimes referred
to as "luck." First, it can be good luck or bad luck.
And to take the example Justice Alito gave of two twins,
if you have an example of two defendants who are twins
who are each convicted of an offense -- let's say
burglary -- and they are given very lenient sentences,
and because the judge looks at their record at the time
and determines that they are sympathetic. They are
don't have a prior criminal record.
One of them's conviction, you know, has no
claims of legal error relative to his conviction; he
gets no resentencing. The other gets a resentencing.
By the time of resentencing, it has become clear that
that defendant had previously committed several murders,
and he has, you know, murdered -- has also committed a
subsequent murder.
There is no question that, at that
resentencing, that information would be considered.
There is no question there would be a disparity, and it
would be true even if, let's say, those earlier murders
had been committed by both of the twins together.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, isn't there a
difference between evidence that -- evidence of conduct
that occurred prior to the initial sentencing but wasn't
known at the time of the initial sentencing, and
evidence of conduct that occurs between the initial
sentencing and the resentencing?
MR. McLEESE: There could be, but, again -
maybe going too far with the example of the two twins,
if the two twins, while they were serving -- let's say
they got lenient sentences but not probation. While
they were serving in jail together, they murdered a
correctional officer. If one of the defendants does not
get a resentencing, if one of those twins does not,
there will be no opportunity for that to be taken into
account.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And what's your -
MR. MCLEESE: With respect to the other who
gets a resentencing -
JUSTICE ALITO: Maybe it's all or nothing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is.
JUSTICE ALITO: Maybe it works both ways,
that the defendant doesn't get the credit for good
conduct between sentencing and resentencing but also
doesn't get punished at resentencing for unproven
conduct that occurs between the first sentence and the
next -- and the second sentence.
MR. McLEESE: That's a possible rule of law,
but my point was that's not the rule of law we've ever
had. That's not the -- and I should say, nor is it the
rule of law that's created by 3742(g)(2), because
3742(g)(2) is not a rule about consideration of new
evidence. It's an anti-departure provision. It permits
consideration of new evidence, and it permits these
kinds of -- if you -- disparities, whether warranted or
not, because it permits consideration of new evidence in
determining the guidelines range, new evidence about
loss amounts or -- or whatever. It permits
consideration of new evidence as it might relate to
upward adjustments or downward adjustments, as it might
relate to criminal history. What it forbids is new
variances or departures.
So 3742(g)(2) does not implement some
general policy with respect to new evidence, nor, should
I say, to the guidelines, because as I said, the
guidelines permit consideration of post-sentence
rehabilitation in setting a guideline range. They
reflect a judgment not about the disparities always
trumping other considerations, including accuracy in
sentencing, but only how much weight that those
disparities -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was that your fourth point?
I'm all on pins and needles waiting for your fourth
point.
MR. McLEESE: No. Apologies. The fourth
point is simply that 3742(g)(2), if valid, would
foreclose consideration of post-sentencing
rehabilitation, but after Booker it is not valid, and -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If Congress reenacted
3742(g)(2) tomorrow, would it be valid?
MR. McLEESE: It would be invalid. It would
be invalid because it would be -- as applied in certain
circumstances, it would unconstitutionally constrain the
authority of judges at resentencings -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why?
MR. McLEESE: -- and also be inconsistent
with Booker.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why? Because the -- look,
the -- that is not this case. This case, they never had
a chance to consider whether Booker applies or not, so
this is, I think, a special case.
But think of 3742(g) in general. It's
pretty easy to read that section as applied to instances
where a judge, the initial sentencing judge, has decided
on his own volition to apply the guidelines rather than
not to apply them.
Now, in such a case, he sentences the
individual. There's then an appeal, and the appeal he's
reversed on. What in the Constitution says there has to
be a second chance to decide whether the guidelines or
something else should apply? What in Apprendi says
that? What in any of these cases says that?
This is an Apprendi problem. As you know,
I've dissented throughout; I think this is bad policy,
but -- I've disagreed with everything, but forget that
fact, important though it is.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: But the -- the thing that's
worrying me about -- and I don't think -- I agree with
you on policy, but what I'm -- what I'm having trouble
with is: Is it better under the law to say yes, we can
interpret 3742(g) so it can be constitutional, and then
if in some cases it violates Apprendi, let the court say
that in this case it violates Apprendi.
But it just isn't clear to me, which is why
I left it alone the first time. It's not clear. So -
so -- as to when it is, when it isn't constitutional.
You got my whole question there?
MR. McLEESE: I do, and to take it -
JUSTICE BREYER: And I'd appreciate as much
answer as you can give me.
MR. McLEESE: To take an example that's in
the briefs, if at an original sentencing a judge
determines the guideline range and ends up calculating
it to be relatively low -- 57 to 73 months, which
probably aren't even exact numbers -- and determines
that that's an appropriate sentence, and although the
defendant is urging various factors as a basis for
downward -- for variance from the guidelines, the judge
determines that there is no reason to vary because this
is a sentence that seems reasonable.
So that, although those reasons might well
be persuasive in some contexts, they aren't given the
range down. The government takes an appeal and argues
to the court of appeals: In fact, the judge was wrong;
the guideline range is much higher. And so on remand at
the resentencing, the judge makes some factual
determinations, not found by the jury or admitted by the
defendant, which increase the guideline range under the
new advice from the court of appeals to a guideline
range of 121 to 151 months. And -
JUSTICE BREYER: You think that violates
Apprendi?
MR. McLEESE: Well, if the judge then says:
I would like to vary from the guidelines; I am locked in
under the guidelines to a 121-month sentence, and I
have -- I didn't -- it's true I didn't vary before on
these grounds, but that's because the sentence didn't -
didn't warrant -- because of its relative lack of
severity, did not warrant a variance, I think that
the -- the logic of Apprendi and Booker would foreclose
constraining resentencings in that way.
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm -
MR. MCLEESE: And I think that's an
answer -- if I just -
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes.
MR. MCLEESE: I think that's an answer to
the question that you had asked earlier, which is, I
think, if Congress enacted a statute which categorically
said that whatever happens at the original sentencing,
the judge has to list any reason that the judge is
relying on for a downward variance or departure, and
then cabins the judge on remand, that in certain
contexts that would be inconsistent with this Court's
line of cases from Apprendi through Booker.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, under 3553(c), the
court is supposed to explain the reasons for the
sentence, even if it's within the guidelines; isn't that
right?
MR. McLEESE: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: And so if the court is
deciding whether the sentence should be 57 months or
63 months, whatever the figures were that you gave, and
the court thinks that some factor -- let's say age -- is
significant, the court should say: I'm sentencing the
defendant to 57 as opposed to 63 because of the
defendant's advanced age or young age or whatever it is.
Now, on appeal, the -- the court of appeals
says the guidelines sentence was improperly calculated;
it should be -- the real range is 120 to 125 months.
Remand. Now if the court wants to grant a departure or
a variance based on age, the court has mentioned age
previously as a relevant factor, and it can do that.
But if age wasn't -- if age was not relevant to the
determination of where within the guidelines this
sentence should be set, why is it -- why does the
Constitution require that age be a relevant factor, a
factor that's open to the judge on resentencing?
MR. McLEESE: Well -
JUSTICE ALITO: It's just a notice
provision. It's not -- it's not something that
substantively limits what the court can do.
MR. McLEESE: To clarify, a judge is
required to state in open court orally the reasons for a
sentence inside the guideline range, only if the range
is sufficiently large, and the written statement of
reasons is not -- the reasons for selecting a sentence
within the guideline range are not required to be in the
written statements of reasons. The written statement of
reasons relates only to grounds outside the -- the
guidelines. And to -- from a practical perspective, it
would be extremely difficult to expect sentencing judges
to list every conditionally or contingently relevant
fact, depending on whatever sentence ultimately comes
back on remand, that might be relevant to a reason to
depart from a range that the judge is not contemplating
at the time of the sentencing.
But I should say also that it -- the answer
to this question, of whether Congress could reenact
3742(g)(2) after Booker, and it would be constitutional
or not constitutional as applied in certain settings, is
not essential to our point, because the appeal
provisions that were excised in Booker were not
determined by the Court -- they were not excised because
the Court determined they would be independently
unconstitutional.
The -- the remedial component of the Booker
opinion was focused on the question of, having found a
constitutional violation, what then do we do to remedy
it? And what the Court said was the way we will remedy
this is that we will make the guidelines advisory rather
than mandatory.
JUSTICE BREYER: The answer to this case is,
I don't think, too hard. You say it's at least
questionable enough, 42(g) you could say, at least
questionable enough that it's the same box as the ones
that were excised.
MR .McLEESE: And -
JUSTICE BREYER: And then there has not been
focus in the district court on what the district court
would want to do, assuming he is free to apply the
guidelines or not, on the remand decision that that
judge has never made.
MR. McLEESE: Yes, and to elaborate on
that -
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right?
MR. McLEESE: Just -- just by its terms,
section 3742(g)(2) is inconsistent with the remedial
rule announced in Booker, which was that the guidelines
would be advisory rather than mandatory -
JUSTICE BREYER: They didn't say -- forget
that argument. What I was about -
MR. McLEESE: But more specifically -
JUSTICE BREYER: I do have another point I'd
like to get out, as long as I have this opportunity. It
seems to me there's a considerable confusion, perhaps,
only from my point of view, but this word "variance" --
I mean, why is it felt necessary to use the word
"variance"? If it's true -- and it's not totally true,
but if it's true the judge -- you can apply the
guideline, apply it. Now, the guidelines themselves
gives you the right to depart in every single case but,
for example, a handful of factors such as race, where
you really shouldn't change the thing just because of
race. So what is the need for the variance?
Now, maybe this 5K9-point whatever that
is -- maybe there are a handful where there is a need,
and maybe this is an example of it. But are there a
lot, many, what -- can you just talk a little bit about
it?
MR. McLEESE: It's -- two points with
respect to that, one of which is this is a provision
where the -- the Commission has specifically said it is
not lawful to depart on this basis, though it is
permissible, again, to sentence within the range -
JUSTICE BREYER: It's just a policy
statement. Does it enjoy the same status of law?
MR. McLEESE: Correct. Yes, they are
treated -- in the era when the guidelines were treated
as mandatory, they were treated as binding in their
turn. There are other guidelines provisions about
departures which either foreclose other bases or which
will say they are not usually or ordinarily a basis for
departure.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, I get it.
MR. McLEESE: And so, there still is
litigation in a post-mandatory guideline system about
whether it's a correct application of the guidelines to
depart on this basis.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, perhaps
before your time is up, you'd like to address the first
question.
MR. McLEESE: Yes. With respect to the law
of the case issue, as it has been framed by the -
the -- the briefs by Petitioner on the merits in this
Court, it is an extremely narrow issue; and that is,
taking as a given that the Eighth Circuit had authority
to order de novo resentencing and that, in fact, it did
order de novo resentencing, was, at that resentencing,
the district court -- the resentencing district court
judge bound by the earlier judge's discretionary
determination that the substantial assistance provided
by defendant Pepper justified a 40 percent reduction?
And to ask that question is almost to answer it in the
sense that the phrase "de novo" means anew or afresh.
And the point -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it has
nothing -- but what if the appeal had nothing to do with
the issue at all? I'm thinking in -- the analogy in the
civil context, so you have two totally unrelated issues.
If you appeal issue B and that's what the fight is
about, and you reverse and send it back, it would at
least be unusual for judge to say, oh, and by the way,
I'm coming out the other way on issue A.
MR. McLEESE: And that's true in the civil
setting. Courts have taken the view that sentencing is
different because sentencing is a relatively discrete
proceeding where there are a number of interconnected
determinations, a lot of them discretionary based on the
judge's assessment, a lot of them conditionally relevant
to each other.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But these are not
interconnected, are they?
MR. McLEESE: Well, the amount of
substantial assistance that is given in a particular
case can easily be interconnected to antecedent
determinations, including what the guidelines level is,
because judges are often -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, my point is that
the level of assistance is not in any way connected to
the post-sentencing conduct.
MR. McLEESE: No, these two issues are not
interrelated, but I'm explaining the reason for the
doctrine in the -- in the sentencing setting. The
greater willingness of courts of appeals to order de
novo resentencing and say even though the particular
issue on appeal doesn't directly open up the other
issues that may have been determined at sentencing,
judges in the -- courts of appeals in the sentencing
context all agree they have authority to order de novo
resentencing where they think it's appropriate. And
they tend to think it's more appropriate in the
sentencing context than generally, because, as I said -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but why -- why
does that matter when you're talking about two totally
unrelated issues?
MR. McLEESE: Because also -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There's no reason to
suppose that the court of appeals thinks there ought to
be -- or any issue with respect to the question A when
they focus solely on question B.
MR. McLEESE: I agree. But, again, when the
court of appeals orders de novo resentencing, that
doesn't open up only substantial assistance. The point
is the judge is going to go through and make, as of the
time of the resentencing, determinations on the
situation as it exists at that time. So, it is possible
and not at all unusual that issues that were not up in
the court of appeals will come up on resentencing.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you're worried
about the general rule, but you agree that none of those
arguments make any sense in this case.
MR. McLEESE: I -- I agree that it would
have been permissible for the court of appeals here to
choose not direct a de novo resentencing. That would
have been a permissible way to resolve the issue as
well -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That would not
interfere with the new judge's or the judge's discretion
across the board?
MR. McLEESE: I -- I -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I have never had to
sentence someone, but it seems to me, particularly when
you have a change in the judges, there's a very personal
investment in what you do with the -- the defendant, and
to say that, well, another judge looked at this factor
so your hands are tied in that respect is -- is a
questionable result.
MR. McLEESE: I agree. And I should say
that the issues that we're discussing are interesting
ones, but they are not in the law of the case issue
that's being presented here, because, in fact, the
Eighth Circuit did order de novo resentencing. The
defendant has never challenged the validity of their
ordering de novo resentencing. So the only issue is,
what does it mean for the law of the case doctrine when
de novo resentencing is ordered?
And on that question, it's very clear. In
fact, not just the Eighth Circuit but every court of
appeals that we're aware of to resolve that question has
said that, as the name suggests, when the circuit
chooses, for whatever reasons, to order de novo
resentencing, the -- the judge at the resentencing is
not bound by earlier determinations of the district
court judge. And -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there reason to
suppose when they say de novo resentencing, they're
talking about the mistake that was made with respect to
issue B and not issue A?
MR. McLEESE: No, there's no reason to
suppose that. But what there is reason to suppose -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do they -- is it
their practice in some cases to say we're sending this
back for de novo sentencing but only with respect to the
issue that we addressed? Or do they just normally throw
it out and say start over, without any supposition that
the district court would take a look again at something
that wasn't before the court of appeals at all?
MR. McLEESE: Different circuits approach
that somewhat differently, but all circuits have -
understand that they have authority to make
individualized case determinations and they do. There
are cases where -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could they -- are
you aware of any case where the Eighth Circuit has said
we're sending this back for resentencing but only on the
issue that we addressed on appeal?
MR. McLEESE: Yes. And the Eighth Circuit's
opinions make clear that -- although they apply sort of
a default presumption that there will be de novo
resentencing, they make clear that they have authority
to order limited resentencings. And they do that where
in a particular case they think that's more efficient or
more appropriate.
They explained in this case, by the way,
with respect to the suggestion you made earlier,
Mr. Chief Justice, that part of the reason they thought
de novo resentencing was appropriate here is because
they were reassigning the matter to a different judge,
and, therefore, I think for some of the reasons that you
were suggesting, they felt de novo review was
appropriate.
But, again, on the narrow law of the case
issue that is presented, there is no disagreement among
the courts of appeals, and as the name suggests, if
there is a de novo resentencing, the matter is de novo.
If I could, for just a moment, turn back to
the post-sentence rehabilitation issue to make one last
point, which is, going one level deeper into the Booker
remedy analysis, again, even if there were some -
excuse me.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish your
sentence.
MR. McLEESE: All I was going to say is that
in excising the appeal provisions that were excised in
Booker, the Court identified four reasons why those
should be excised, and each one of them applies equally
or more so with respect to the provision at issue here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Ciongoli.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ADAM G. CIONGOLI
AS AMICUS CURIAE, IN SUPPORT OF THE JUDGMENT BELOW
MR. CIONGOLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Congress enacted 3742(g) for the purpose of
stopping district courts from evading the mandate of the
court of appeals on remanded sentencing cases by relying
on grounds that they did not consider at the original
sentencing.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And as far as you're
concerned, Justice Alito's question about post- -
post-sentencing criminal conduct couldn't be considered
by a court, either?
MR. CIONGOLI: I -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because it wasn't a
factor mentioned in the original sentence, so you would
apply the rule equally to -
MR. CIONGOLI: I -- I would, Justice
Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there any logic to
that? I mean, I know that when I was a district court
judge, routinely post-sentencing criminal conduct would
make me wonder whether this person really was worthy of
a lower sentence or not, or of whatever largesse I may
have given him or her in original sentence. What makes
sense about that?
MR. CIONGOLI: Well, I think one thing that
would make sense of it is there's a different mechanism.
There's an opportunity for that to be reflected in a -
in a separate criminal prosecution and a -- and a
sentencing for that conduct. When -- when the
sentencing guidelines were created and when 3742(g) was
passed, all of this was done against the backdrop of a
sense that the sentencing guidelines were to focus on
avoiding unwarranted disparities, but as the Court
observed in Booker, sentencing -- similar -- similar
sentences for similar crimes conducted in similar ways.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- when this provision
was passed, Congress was worried, I thought, about the
situations where district court judges' hands -- were on
appeal told you can't use this ground for departure, and
often the court, because they thought the original
sentence they gave was fair, would then articulate
another ground for departure that they hadn't earlier.
But didn't all of that go out of the window with Booker?
I mean, the presumption in -- that drove Congress was
that the guidelines were mandatory. Once Booker said
they weren't, why should we be limiting Congress -- a
judge's discretion ab initio or post hoc to giving what
they believe is a reasonable sentence?
MR. CIONGOLI: Justice Sotomayor, I think
that the purpose of 3742(g) is to limit the ability of a
district court to evade the mandate on remand in
sentencing. And I think that purpose was valid before
Booker; I think it's actually even more important after
Booker if you're going, for example, to have meaningful
opportunities for the government to appeal. If a
district court can impose a sentence that the court of
appeals then finds substantively unreasonable, and -
and on remand the district court can then consider
grounds that didn't exist at the time of the original
sentencing and, in fact, couldn't have been considered
by the court of appeals because the evidence didn't
exist at the time the court of appeals reviewed it and
is, in this case, uniquely in the hands of the defendant
to create, then you're going to create essentially a
procedural merry-go-round where a district court will
impose a 24-month sentence, the government will appeal,
the court of appeals will think that's substantively
unreasonable. It will be remanded to the district court
who will say: Well, in the interim this person has
rehabilitated them self, they've gotten a job and
they've gone to school. The government -- imposing
another 24-month sentence. These are not related to the
facts of the case, but this is a different hypothetical.
The government will then appeal again and
say: This is ridiculous. The underlying conduct is
extremely severe; 24 months is substantively
unreasonable. And they'll appeal to the court of
appeals.
The court of appeals will say: We agree
it's substantively unreasonable; we're going to remand
for resentencing.
And the district court will say: Well, not
only has he gone to school and not only does he have a
job, but he's gotten married, and he has been promoted,
and he has been named employee of the year. So I'm
imposing a 24-month sentence again.
And at some point, the district -- the
government is going to say: I give up, because I could
keep appealing, but what's the point? It appears -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but there are two
explanations for your hypothetical. One is there has
been a real change that affects the judge.
The other is where you -- where you began, I
thought you were going, where the judge is evading the
court of appeals. Those are two different things. I
mean, one may happen, and one may not.
MR. CIONGOLI: That -- that's right,
Justice Kennedy, and I think that both purposes are
served by 3742(g). 3742(g), as both Petitioner and the
Government -- serves a constitutional purpose. What
both the Petitioner and the Government object to is the
way that it's drafted. It's not that Congress, they
say, couldn't pass this, but that they couldn't pass it
the way that it's passed because it makes essentially
illegal references to the mandatory sentencing
guidelines. That is a product of the fact that this
statute was drafted before Booker and didn't have the
benefit of knowing how Booker was going to come out.
What the Court, I think, needs to decide is,
post-Booker, how it's going to deal with statutes like
3742(g) -- and there are others -- which stand for an
entirely constitutional and important purpose but which
necessarily, because of the time they were drafted, have
references to or language that assumes the existence of
a mandatory guidelines scheme.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How many of those
statutes are left that we -- that the Court hasn't
looked at?
MR. CIONGOLI: Well, I can think of at least
three problems that would -- that would result from the
Court saying that any reference to a mandatory
guidelines scheme creates -- creates essentially a
facial invalidity if it's incapable of constitutional
review and -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which are the three?
MR. CIONGOLI: Well, first of all, 3553(a)
makes two references to -- to 3742(g). And so there's a
question as how you would apply those if you strike
3742(g). I think that 3553(c), to the extent that it
requires a written statement in the context of a
departure, starts to -- starts to raise questions. And
as Justice Scalia pointed out in his dissent in Booker
itself, there's a real question as to whether 3742(f)
has any reason to exist after Booker.
JUSTICE BREYER: But all those -- what you'd
tend to do is take the parts that refer to the other
statute and say they don't do anything. And does that
ruin the provision it's in? The answer, I think,
normally ws no, it doesn't ruin it at all. It makes
sense.
But this one is a tough one. I grant you
that this one is a tough one. And my problem of course
is I can think of a constitutional way of applying this,
but it's a little far-fetched. And the far-fetched one
makes me think that it's unconstitutional in the
far-fetched nature of it, and I don't think it has a
spillover.
MR. CIONGOLI: But, Justice Breyer, I -
JUSTICE BREYER: You see, the far-fetched
one was the one that was brought out. I mean, not
far-fetched. To -- to say in those circumstances that
it is constitutional, where they're going to apply a new
guideline and they don't have the evidence -- as much as
I dissented in Apprendi, I think that one probably does
violate Apprendi.
MR. CIONGOLI: Justice -
JUSTICE BREYER: And I think I have to stick
up for that, don't I?
MR. CIONGOLI: Well, Justice Breyer, if
you're referring to the Solicitor General's hypothetical
of a case in which they miscalculate the guidelines and
they don't announce their reasons otherwise, I actually
think that there's a way to avoid the problem in that,
depending on whether the case arises before or after
this case. If it arises after this case, I think it
will be very clear to district courts that they need to
be very careful and thorough in articulating their
reasons for reaching the sentence, which, particularly
in a post-Booker world, I think is a good thing. If
there's -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would that -- I mean -
we right now are receiving hundreds of petitions saying
the court didn't sufficiently articulate its reasons.
We're going to change the practice of the district
court. I mean, dramatically.
MR. CIONGOLI: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You think that's a good
thing to do?
MR. CIONGOLI: I -- I think having a
district court articulate its reasons is a good thing.
They are supposed to do that under -- under
congressional statute now, 3553(c). They're supposed to
do it in open court very clearly, and in certain
circumstances, they're supposed to do it -- they're
supposed to do it in writing.
JUSTICE BREYER: They can check a box. They
can check a box and the -- unless they're going to
depart. Now, the part that's not necessary -- you could
deal with later, but the part that's confusing me is
where this word "variance" comes into, because I think
the word "departure" would normally -- normally -- cover
the matter. And then when it gets to the court of
appeals, the court of appeals, whether they're inside
the guideline or outside the guideline and have
departed, reviews the matter for -- you know, inside and
have departed or outside, those situations. It says in
Booker the standard is to review for reasonableness.
But where does this variance business come in?
MR. CIONGOLI: Well, I think in the context
of 3742(g), that's one of the -- the linguistic vestiges
of the guidelines, which is that, up until Irizarry, the
Court itself used the terms "variance" and "departure"
interchangeably because a variance didn't exist prior to
Booker.
I don't -- the Court obviously spoke to the
question of whether or not it was going to equate a
variance and a departure in the context of rule 32(h) in
Irizarry. I don't think actually that that distinction
was essential to the holding in Irizarry, and I think
could be limited there. I think, particularly where the
court is trying to avoid invalidating a duly enacted
statute, some flexibility in terms of interpreting
departure in 3742(g)(2)(B) would be warranted, and you
would essentially say that to the extent that a court is
varying or departing, that they would need to articulate
the reasons.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's true that -- that in
all of the briefing in Booker, 3742(g) was not mentioned
by any party.
MR. CIONGOLI: That's correct, Justice
Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it wasn't a question
of the Court overlooking it. The Court didn't say
anything one way or the other about it because it wasn't
presented as one of the statutes that would have to be
overruled.
MR. CIONGOLI: Justice Ginsburg, I think
that obviously the Court is dealing very clearly with
the constitutionality of it now. And I think that
Congress had very good reasons for enacting it that
continue to be valid. It's capable of constitutional
application, I think, in the mine run of cases and, in
particular, in this case. There's no Sixth Amendment
allegation in this case.
JUSTICE BREYER: But the problem, to be very
specific, is I think the following: The first
sentencing, the judge applies the guideline. He says:
There was $300,000 stolen from the bank. I look it up
over here and I get sentence X. On appeal, the
appellate court says: You should have counted the
securities as money taken. So it's 1,300,000. So go
and apply guideline Y. He goes back, looks at Y -- it's
a very high number -- and thinks: Given certain
circumstances which make this case unusual, I want to
depart downward.
Now, I would have thought that the judge's
behavior in that second instance would have violated
Apprendi, because that judge was either going to
sentence even without the departure on the basis of his
having taken some securities worth a million dollars
which was not a fact that went to the jury. So there it
is. Or he'd have to throw aside the guideline.
But this statute says you can't throw aside
the guidelines, and you can't depart for a reason that
wasn't previously given. So this statute is -- is
forcing him to sentence on the basis of a fact that was
not found by a jury. I think that's the argument for
saying it violates Apprendi. And I -- I don't see why
it doesn't.
MR. CIONGOLI: Justice Breyer, I -- I think
that in -- in certain applications of this statute,
there will be problems. I -- I think that's
unavoidable, and I think it's an unavoidable consequence
of having been drafted before Booker. The question is
how the Court is going to address that. Is the Court
going to read the statute flexibly? Is -- is it going
to interpret it in a way that tries to avoid those
circumstances, those constitutional problems? Or does
it ultimately determine that it's -- it's essentially
not capable of a saving construction.
I think it is capable of a saving
construction; I think it's capable of a saving
construction in a couple of ways that avoid most of the
problems that have been articulated by -- by both
Petitioner and the Government.
The first, which actually Petitioner points
out in his reply brief, is in 3742(g) itself. There's
this language about "except that," that appears to limit
the -- the ability of the district court to actually
follow the mandate of the court of appeals.
I don't think that that can be read to limit
the mandate of the court of appeals, nor do I think that
anyone is suggesting that 3742(g) changes the rule in
Harper v. Virginia Department of -- of Taxation, the
idea that -- that district courts obviously would have
to give the benefit of intervening changes in -- in law
in judicial decisions. And so Booker, which has been
used as an example -- Booker on remand would likely have
been entitled to a -- a resentencing, a resentencing
based on factors that the district court judge could
have considered at the time of the original sentencing,
but now in light of Booker, basically a do-over. And
for a -- for a small section of cases, I think that
would work.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How? Would -- would you
explain, as concisely as you can, why you think that
(g)(2) would be unconstitutional in -- in some limited
category of cases, and how that can be avoided by what
you call a flexible interpretation?
MR. CIONGOLI: Justice Scalia, I think I
said it would be problematic; I don't think I conceded
that it would be unconstitutional.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.
MR. CIONGOLI: I -- I think that -- I think
that there are some -- there are some circumstances
where, by a strict read of -- of (g)(2), the court would
be required to apply the guidelines, a guidelines range.
And the example that -- that the Solicitor General's
Office gave might be the best, which is where you have a
circumstance where the district court has imposed a
sentence within the guidelines range, has not given any
other reason for a variance, the sentence is at the
bottom of the range, which may or may not indicate that
they thought that the -- that the sentence should be at
the low end; and then on a -- on a calculation, there's
a determination that the -- on appeal, there's a
determination that the calculation was incorrect; and on
remand, the district court says: I'm -- I'm bound by
this new calculation, and I'm giving you a mandatory
sentence. I'm giving you -- I'm bound by the guidelines
range because I didn't give any other reasons. I didn't
give any other reasons under -- under (2)(A), and,
therefore, I can only give you a guideline sentence.
And in those cases, the guidelines would be
mandatory. And, under Booker, I think there's -
there's a question as to whether a court can -- can
impose a mandatory sentence in any case after Booker.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but -- I mean, why
wouldn't you read that simply to have been overcome by
the holding of Booker, that you apply -- that every
judge has to apply 3553 factors and decide the ultimate
sentence on the basis of those factors? I mean, isn't
that what Booker said? And why wouldn't you apply that
to -- to (2)(A) and (B) as well?
MR. CIONGOLI: I -- I certainly think the
Court could take that approach, and -- and, in fact, I
think -- I think to the -- I think it should. I think
that the Court should find a way to read or construe
3742(a) to be constitutional, because it serves an
important and independent policy choice that has been
identified by Congress.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But doesn't it conflict
with 3553(a)(2), that is, the overriding provision that
a sentence should be sufficient but not greater than
necessary to deter criminal conduct? And the judge is
looking at this defendant and says -- a criminal -- to
deter criminal conduct and protect public against future
crimes: Well, this person has turned out to be a model
citizen, and we don't have to keep him in for a longer
time to protect the public against future crimes. So if
I were to apply 3742(g)(2), I would give him a sentence
that is unnecessary to protect the public against future
crimes.
MR. CIONGOLI: Justice Ginsburg, I think
you're pointing out that there is some tension which I
have admitted. I think that, again, this statute was
drafted at a time when there was a different set of
assumptions, and so there -- there may be applications
which create some difficulty. They create more
difficulty in terms of how it's applied, but they are
not the kinds of difficulties that I think are
insurmountable. And they're certainly not the kinds of
difficulties that support what I think is -- is a
proposed broad solution by both Petitioner and the
Government, that post-Booker, sentencing statutes which
-- which impose a mandatory guideline sentence really in
any applications are facially unconstitutional.
I don't -- I don't read Booker that way. I
don't think the Court intended it that way. Certainly,
the remedial holding in Booker doesn't indicate that.
If it did -- if that is, in fact, what the remedial
holding in Booker stands for, I think the -- the
implications are more far reaching than the Court -- the
Court intended.
If there are no further questions -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Parrish, you have 2 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ALFREDO PARRISH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. PARRISH: Thank you. I would like to
first address the law of the case issue, and that -
initially, I said it was apples and oranges, and it is.
On two separate occasions after the 5K ruling had been
made by District Court Judge Bennett, it was appealed
twice to the Eighth Circuit. After it was appealed
twice to the Eighth Circuit, they had an abuse of
discretion standard they could have used to resolve it.
They did not comment on it. They upheld it.
Then it was sent back down. After it had
come up on an original writ to this Court, this Court
vacated the Eighth Circuit opinion, sent that opinion
back down. But the law of the case, as you said, Mr.
Chief Justice Roberts, still remained with the district
court on the initial ruling. The initial ruling that
Judge Bennett made with regard to the 5K departure was a
separate ruling.
Now, the Eighth Circuit, in its own analysis
of how you interpret its remand -- we disagree with the
Government. They said they -- you look at the analysis
of the case to determine the remand. And in that
instance, we believe that the remand was the analysis of
the case that the 5K departure remains. No new facts
came in, no new controlling law came into place, and
there was no manifest injustice. She heard no new facts
on this case.
We believe the Court should reverse -
vacate the Eighth Circuit court of opinion case
regarding post-sentencing rehabilitation, remand with
directions from this Court consistent with an opinion
that requires the court to impose a sentence that does
not exceed 24 months.
And, Justice Ginsburg, we did mention, on
page 33 of our brief, the 3742(g)(2) as a footnote, when
the case first came up. But the Eighth Circuit, as you
all know, did not use that rule. They used an old rule
that was in effect from the Sims case to impose the
sentence. It was not part of 3742(g)(2) or any other
statute.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Ciongoli, you have briefed and argued
this case as an amicus curiae in support of the judgment
below at the invitation of the Court and have ably
discharged your responsibility.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:04 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
ALFREDO 1:15 42:14 49:1 52:3 45:16,17 49:10 avoided 51:10
56:14 12:1,8,12 14:10 appeals 9:11 appropriate 7:23 A's 16:22
28:1,11 35:13,19,24 area 14:9 B
8:6 12:22
19:5 28:16 29:10 36:25 37:18 argued 56:8 B 10:23 11:6
23:6 allow 18:14 47:5,5 50:17,19 argument 1:12 10:25 12:16
39:11 amicus 1:22 2:11 appellate 12:16 arguments 35:22 backdrop 40:18
amount 34:9 apples 4:14 8:7 articulate 41:3 balance 7:21
54:18 analogy 33:19 application 32:23 articulated 50:11 bank 48:25
18:13 38:25 applications aside 17:7 49:14 20:2
analyzed 9:23 54:4 asked 28:3 11:17 13:25
announce 45:24 30:6 53:22 assessment 34:5 20:18 29:2 34:4
28:2 30:3,18 25:21 31:1,20 assumes 44:1 basically 51:4
30:16 34:11 49:4 51:19 assumption 21:6 32:18,24 49:11
anti-departure 52:17,18,20 assumptions 49:18 52:19
14:17,19 25:18 1:21 33:7 34:25 2:15 3:9 19:23
25:18 27:4 appraise 5:6 37:21 38:6 54:16
19:3,7,11 20:25 37:22,25 38:8 chooses 12:5 come 3:13 7:22
55:13,18 27:12 30:18,24 42:10 45:23 Ciongoli 1:21 35:19 43:20
45:10,11,19,21 52:14 54:18 40:12 41:11 15:4 29:24 47:2
43:20 49:22 55:19 56:1,3,9 45:10,18,21 33:24
brief 6:8 12:24 56:12,13 46:13,16 47:11 comment 54:25
55:25 21:10 25:22 51:12,16 52:22 13:7,19 17:13
10:5,7,10 C 2:1 3:2 49:5,23 Circuit's 38:3 15:5
cabins 28:8 certainly 52:22 circumstance concerned 13:19
20:21 calculated 28:24 53:24 54:6 51:22 39:21
25:7,10 calculating 26:19 challenged 36:19 circumstances concisely 51:8
28:10 calculation 52:2 chance 25:10,20 6:2 25:3 45:13 conditionally
31:9 52:4,6 change 5:14 6:3 46:21 49:6 50:5 29:23 34:5
39:6 call 51:11 6:15 7:3,12 51:17 conduct 14:12
41:5,7,15 called 15:1 31:24 36:9 43:4 cite 6:8 15:11 22:18,21
43:19,20 capable 48:18 46:11 cited 12:24 21:11 23:14,16 34:16
47:9 50:7,8,9 changes 3:21 citizen 53:11 39:22 40:7,16
48:5 50:1 careful 46:4 50:20,23 civil 33:20,25 42:12 53:7,9
51:4 case 3:5,19 4:15 charged 14:13 claims 22:6 conducted 40:22
4:19,25 5:2,4,9 check 46:23,24 clarify 29:13 confidence 6:4
5:11,18,21,24 Chief 3:4,10 4:4 classes 16:19 conflict 53:4
11:1 12:17 9:1,21 10:1,9 19:21,25 32:25 36:23 38:4,6 confusion 31:16
33:11 37:4 10:23 11:20,21 33:17 34:7,14 46:3 Congress 11:9
12:23 15:4 16:6 35:4,8,20 36:3 clearly 46:20 11:18 24:24
25:17 26:9 38:12 39:2,9,13 clients 13:2 40:24 41:6,8
33:4 34:11 choice 53:2 college 3:13 53:3
35:22 36:16,21 choose 35:25 16:22 congressional
28:9 41:23,24 42:2,4 35:25 36:18,20 Department 1:19
continue 48:18 46:10,12,17,20 38:21 5:16 6:11 16:6
controlling 3:21 47:23 48:1,10 dealing 48:15 20:18 28:7 29:1
21:13 7:13 55:15 50:2,2,16,17 death 6:22 44:18 47:3,14
39:18 convicted 14:14 50:19 51:2,18 December 1:9 47:19,25 49:11
15:3 21:25 51:22 52:5,13 decide 11:2 55:7,14
22:5,6 54:10,11,21 52:18 24:7 32:17
14:3 correct 13:10,22 55:21,22 56:10 deciding 28:17 46:1
23:22,24 18:5,5 32:13,23 courts 13:15 decision 5:17 6:5 Deputy 1:18
48:7 21:11 34:1,20 6:8 7:2 8:8,9 Des 1:15
counsel 4:4 6:17 39:16 46:3 10:19,25 12:15 determination
22:13 32:25 39:9 Court's 21:9 28:9 14:7 16:10 52:3,4
41:22 54:13 56:7 cover 47:3 19:14 31:2 determinations
counted 49:2 create 14:2 42:1 decisions 14:8 27:8 34:4,12
21:6 55:21 9:18 created 18:8 deeper 38:24 determine 50:6
29:7 50:10 creates 9:22 44:9 defendant 21:7 determined 30:9
30:5,6 court 1:1,12,16 credit 14:22 22:9 23:13 determines 22:3
43:12,24 1:22 3:11,15,18 15:10,11 23:13 26:23 27:9 26:19,21,25
45:5,14 4:16,20 5:3,3 crime 15:3 28:21 33:13 determining 24:2
50:5 53:1 5:13 9:11,20 crimes 40:22 36:10,19 41:25 deterrents 20:9
14:6 16:1 17:2 criminal 14:12 defendants 15:6,6 22:18
28:19,20,23 53:9 28:22 different 6:23
30:9,10,15,25 39:12 56:9 demonstrate 37:19 38:14
35:19,24 36:24 D 3:2 17:21 30:1 differently 5:6
35:3 39:14,17,23 day 14:15 46:25 49:7,16 difficult 4:5
47:11,19 40:6,20,25 41:2 de 33:8,9,15 departed 47:7,8 29:22
dollars 49:12 ends 26:19 excising 39:5 20:8 26:23
4:18,22 5:21 enjoy 32:12 exercise 10:21 52:18,19
drafted 43:14,19 8:15 51:1 existence 44:1 9:1,8,24 10:1
46:12 error 22:6 explain 12:2,4,5 factual 27:7
41:9 54:24 D.C 1:8,19 47:21 explanations far 13:18 17:11
33:11 34:4 E 43:16 44:9 48:1 extent 20:13 54:10
40:20 28:3 33:11 37:4 43:6 fight 33:21
easily 34:11 22:18,18,21 faces 15:7 find 12:18 21:8
16:8 easy 25:13 23:23,24 24:1,2 facial 44:10 52:25
effect 56:3 24:4,9 41:23 facially 54:4 finds 41:19
Eighth 9:4 11:4 exactly 8:1 11:23 13:17 14:4,25 6:12,22 8:2,5
5:3,3,13 36:18,24 37:25 12:13 21:23,24 36:17,24 41:22 26:11 33:1
6:12 10:24 38:3 54:22,23 22:24 26:17 43:18 49:13,18 44:13 48:23
17:2 55:3,9,19 56:1 31:23 32:3 52:23 54:8 50:13 54:18
33:10 either 18:24 41:16 50:25 factor 3:24 7:13 56:1
37:4,17 32:17 39:23 51:20 9:11,12,13,17 flexibility 47:24
40:6,25 49:10 exceed 15:15 13:16 20:21 flexible 51:11
elaborate 31:4 55:23 28:19 29:3,7,8 flexibly 50:3
eliminated 9:10 exceeded 15:3 36:11 40:1 floating 7:14
emphasis 15:17 excelled 16:20 factors 5:20 7:21 Florida 1:16
51:2 empirical 13:25 excellent 6:25 8:20 10:13 focus 30:25
52:5 employee 3:14 excise 10:18 11:11,16,17 35:11 40:19
55:5 16:20 42:22 11:5,6,6 12:3,10,11 focused 30:13
6:7 9:21 39:15 47:23 30:8,9,22 39:5 15:19 16:2,12 followed 5:18
36:21 enacting 48:17 39:7 16:14,23 17:18 following 11:10
48:23 20:21 22:1 27:3 24:12 26:19 higher 27:6 independent
51:23 32:22 45:15 holding 47:21 30:10
32:17 52:7 guidelines 3:17 hypothetical indicates 13:14
11:2 12:14 12:19,23,25,25 45:22 15:7,21,23
going 10:9 11:12 20:3,11,14,16 idea 50:22 37:22
39:4 41:16 42:1 24:11 25:15,20 53:3 21:5,14,18
23:13 40:17,19 41:7 important 26:1 17:13 54:19
51:9,18 gotten 8:14 49:16 51:19,19 impose 7:24 8:10 5:15 55:16
24:9 43:12,13 50:12 half 8:2 51:22 55:13
35:21 54:2 55:11 handful 31:23 imposes 11:10 instances 25:13
greater 34:20 40:25 41:25 improvements intended 54:6,11
10:16,20 41:4 happens 10:24 incarcerated interconnected
grounds 27:18 28:5 15:12 34:3,8,11
17:12 29:20 39:18 hard 30:19 including 20:8 interesting 36:15
41:21 Harper 50:21 24:14 34:12 interfere 36:4
55:24 guess 9:18 18:23 hear 3:4 inconsistent 25:6 interim 42:6
50:23 13:7,9 17:5,8 6:14,14,16 incorrect 52:4 50:4 55:10
53:13 17:11 20:15,22 55:16 increase 12:25 interpretation
28:6,6,8 29:8 27:23 28:1,11 largesse 40:9 locked 27:15
31:20 33:11,23 30:18,24 31:6 Laughter 26:2 logically 20:7
37:3,5 38:14 32:20,25 33:17 4:19,25 5:2,4,8 longer 5:10
51:2 52:18 53:7 37:6,12,24 7:3,4,13 8:25 8:20,23 9:12,24
25:4 29:22 40:3,5,23 41:11 23:18,19,21 16:1,11,16 25:8
34:5 36:4,4 46:8,14,23 48:4 55:4,15 44:5
9:4,20 2:12 5:7,9 51:15 52:15 left 4:16 5:3 49:4
20:20 24:13 53:4,16 54:13 10:24 26:11 loss 24:3
34:22 39:12 56:9 55:5,24 56:7 44:4 lot 5:24 7:14 14:1
36:1,16 judgments 9:16 justified 14:21 legal 22:6 32:4 34:4,5
37:9,9,15 judicial 50:24 33:13 lenient 22:1 23:1 low 26:20 52:2
39:8 jury 27:8 49:13 justify 12:3 let's 21:25 22:15 lower 13:8 21:10
49:19 22:25 28:19 40:9
33:20 3:10 4:4,25 5:2 keep 43:1 53:11 38:24
35:6 5:22 6:17,18 Kennedy 24:24 light 9:16 51:4 M
36:15 7:6,9,10,16,19 43:2,10 limit 17:14 41:12 making 19:14
9:3,7 Kimbrough 50:15,18 man 3:14
16:11 17:5,10 22:10 25:23 limiting 41:8 10:4,7,22 20:23
17:11,16,19,20 40:6 47:7 56:2 limits 29:12 30:17 31:10
7:7 17:25 18:3,6,15 knowing 43:20 line 28:10 32:15 41:7
8:3,18,19 18:20 19:3,6,7 known 22:20 linguistic 47:12 43:17 44:2,8
9:8,24 19:9,11,14,15 list 16:22 28:6 52:6,12,14 54:3
11:10,11 L manifest 3:21
29:23
12:2,5 lack 27:19 listed 11:16 5:15 55:16
21:15,23
17:3 language 44:1 litigants 6:5 married 42:21
23:7,10
22:2 50:15 litigation 32:22 matter 1:11 4:16
24:17
26:18 large 21:10 little 7:17 16:12 8:12 13:17 35:5
25:5,8
47:4,7 Monday 1:9 4:1 21:17,18,2113:13,22,24
money 49:3 normally 37:15 23:5 31:15 14:24 15:13
19:21,22,25 28:25 42:13 novo 33:8,9,15 oral 1:11 2:2,5,9
19:2,5,12
22:23 23:8 55:23 34:21,25 35:13 3:8 19:22 39:11
54:14
24:20 morning 3:5 35:25 36:18,20 orally 29:14 54:15,17
26:14,17 murder 22:11 36:22 37:2,7,14 oranges 4:15 8:7
28:2 murdered 22:10 38:5,13,16,21 54:19 9:5,9 10:1
29:9,13 23:2 38:21 order 7:25 8:22
38:12
31:4,7,13 murders 22:9,15 number 34:3 8:22 14:7 33:8
47:1 56:4
33:3 49:5 33:9 34:20,25
34:9,17 N numbers 26:21 36:18 37:2 38:7
34:10,21
36:6 N 2:1,1 3:2 N.Y 1:21 ordered 36:2238:8 48:20
37:10,19 name 37:1 38:20 ordering 36:20
39:4 named 42:22 O orders 35:13 46:5 47:22
16:5,7 38:18 object 43:13 original 7:6,8
31:18 narrower 16:13 observed 40:21 11:1 26:18 28:5
40:6 41:6 nature 45:8 obviously 47:17 39:18 40:1,10
45:12 46:8 navigating 4:5 48:15 50:22 41:2,21 51:3
52:15,19 necessarily occasions 54:20 55:2 43:16
necessary 31:18 occurs 22:21 outside 11:2,14
17:3
need 20:8,9 offense 21:25 47:8 Pepper 1:3 3:5
5:19 8:8
48:2 14:14 overlooking 10:8 14:10,11
40:1 48:5 10:14 25:9 31:3 33:23 overturned 8:9,10 14:19
5:13 6:2,14 7:2 ones 30:21 36:16 P percentage 5:18
21:5,13,18 opinion 30:13 2:14 3:7,8,10 permit 11:3
43:22 46:6 54:2 problems 44:7 questions 3:15 reassigning
40:8 42:6 post-mandatory 49:24 50:5,11 44:18 54:12 38:14
32:22 procedural 42:2 REBUTTAL
post-sentencing product 43:18 race 17:17 31:23 recipient 10:8
2:4,8,15 18:12 20:4,6,19 prohibited 9:5 range 12:6 20:15 6:20
19:24 33:5 24:22 34:16 prohibits 21:1 24:2,12 26:19 reconsideration
50:12 39:22 40:7 promoted 42:21 27:4,6,9,11 16:7
54:1,16 55:20 properly 17:23 28:25 29:15,15 record 22:2,4
19:3 prosecution 32:10 51:19,23 reenact 30:4
presentencing 44:25 53:5 real 28:25 43:4 reflect 24:13
30:7 presumption public 53:9,12,14 31:24 40:8 54:3 8:8 55:7
33:16 12:19 38:5 41:6 punished 23:15 reason 5:15 6:3,6 regarding 55:20
35:14 pretty 25:13 purpose 39:15 6:22 17:22 regime 20:22
42:24 previously 22:9 41:12,14 43:12 26:25 28:6 rehabilitate
29:3 49:17 43:24 29:25 34:18 14:17
17:9 18:10 18:11 22:4,19 qualifies 4:18 12:20 27:1 13:11 14:22
19:13 47:15 question 5:5 8:5 41:10 15:10 17:6
25:24 26:5 prison 3:13 14:25 17:12 reasonableness 18:12 20:4,7,12
53:2 probably 26:21 21:15 22:12,14 47:9 20:14,19 24:12
9:21,22 10:3,5 36:25 39:21 29:20 37:2 24:6
problematic questionable 46:17 48:3,17 relative 22:6
35:1,13,16,19 39:9 54:13 55:5 securities 49:3 29:22 30:2 34:1
29:3,4,7 36:22 37:3,3,7 routinely 40:7 see 6:2 45:11 35:3 37:14
34:5 38:1,6,13,21 ROY 1:18 2:6 49:20 39:17,19 40:16
resentencings ruin 44:25 45:1 29:17 41:14,22 43:17
reserve 19:16,18 23:18,19,21,22 send 33:22 separate 4:18
respect 23:8 24:9 56:2,2 sends 12:16 55:8
9:8,25 36:12 37:8,14 5:23,25 8:15 35:22 40:11,13 served 43:11
38:11 39:8 10:6,15 54:20 40:19 45:2 serves 43:12
12:9 Respondent 1:20 55:6,6,8 sent 10:11 55:1,3 53:1
27:6 28:8 2:7 19:23 run 48:19 sentence 4:1 5:8 serving 22:25
31:2 responsibility 7:23,25 8:18,18 23:2
42:17 56:11 S 11:10,12,13,13 set 17:7 29:6
52:5 rest 13:16 S 2:1 3:2 11:15 12:3,4,6 53:19
restricted 9:25 safety 20:9 13:21 14:18,19 setting 24:12
restrictive 16:14 saying 4:7,9 6:19 23:16,17 26:22 settings 30:6
30:12 31:8 36:13 44:7 49:20 28:13,17,24 severe 42:13
reverse 33:22 says 9:11,13 29:6,15,17,24 severity 27:20
38:25 review 38:16 25:22 27:14 41:10,18 42:3,9 similar 40:21,21
reviews 47:7 52:5 53:8 51:24 52:1,7,10 simply 24:21
51:19 right 6:24 13:24 9:3,7,19 19:6,9 53:13 54:3 Sims 18:9 56:3
18:20 28:14 24:17 44:19 sentenced 14:15 situated 21:19
Rita 14:5 scheme 44:2,9 25:17 40:22 situations 15:14
7:24 6:18 16:3,11 scot-free 9:14 11:16 12:2 13:3 six 18:13
19:15,18,21 second 20:11 13:6,19 14:16 Sixth 8:16 48:20
32:25 33:17 23:17 25:20 17:7 20:8 22:19 small 51:5
34:7,14 35:4,8 49:9 22:20,22 23:14 society 15:21
29:8 33:8 35:20 36:3,7 section 11:7 24:15 25:14 solely 35:11
51:20 20:7 supposition 35:1,2 38:8,15 tough 45:3,4
8:17 16:22 survives 5:11 45:8,16,19,25 treatment 3:12
40:4,5 strict 51:18 sympathetic 22:3 46:2,6,14,16 tried 14:13
41:11 strike 18:24 system 32:22 47:2,11,20,21 tries 50:4
46:8,14 44:15 47:22 48:14,16 trouble 26:5
student 3:14 T 2:1,1 49:22,24,25 21:15 22:15
32:8 22:11 37:17 44:23 52:22,24,24,24 trumping 24:14
42:4,13,17 talking 35:5 37:8 third 20:24 21:3 twin 14:11,12,22
sufficient 53:6 tension 4:13 5:1 40:24 41:2 43:6 23:4
32:12 38:16 50:20 39:9 54:13,17 tie 8:3 33:20 34:17
suggestion 21:3 56:6,7 tied 36:12 35:5 43:2,7
suggests 37:1 theory 16:12,16 10:9 12:10
support 1:20,22 18:7,16,22 26:3 19:17,18 21:8 ultimate 52:18
11:9 28:4 56:9 things 4:11 13:5 35:17 41:21,24 unavoidable
44:24 suppose 12:18 15:20 17:3,22 43:25 51:3 49:25,25
47:24 14:10,11 35:9 43:7 53:12,19 unconstitutional
37:7,11,11 think 4:4,5 5:24 told 41:1 30:11 45:7 51:9
53:18 56:5 supposed 8:19 8:3 17:22 25:11 tomorrow 24:25 51:14 54:4
48:12 54:2 28:12 46:18,19 27:12,20,24 31:19 33:20 8:3 25:3
47:2,10,14,15 50:4 52:25 54:5 year 18:11 42:22 3661 4:1 15:22
24:7 50:10 3742(a) 53:1
varying 48:2 went 6:23 12:18 0 26:7 39:15
view 31:17 34:1weren't 41:8 43:11,11,23
41:19 violates 26:8,9 36:15,25 37:13 11:05 1:13 3:3 3742(g)(2) 8:13
27:12 49:20 38:1 42:17 12:04 56:13 9:6 10:2,12,17
Virginia 50:21 we've 23:19 121 27:11 19:6 23:21,22
49:6 window41:5 125 28:25 31:8 53:13
16:5 W 1:18 2:6 19:22 word 31:17,18 19 2:8 3742(g)(2)(A)
Wait 20:25 47:2,3 10:23
31:1 49:6 works 23:12 20 4:7
31:18 wants 29:1 world 46:6 4
56:2 worried 35:20 40 4:7 33:13
24 42:13 55:23
21:12
2:4
47:19
55:3 Wasman 21:9 writ 55:2 6:11 54:20 55:7
55:25
15:19
41:14 22:19 29:4 written 14:9 5K2.19 21:2
7:21 13:2
37:18 39:25 29:16,19,19 5K9-point 32:1
52:18
4:1
20:8
5:21 27:22 30:15 3553(a)(2) 53:5
12:14 33:23,24 34:15 3553(b) 10:21
26:24 36:1 38:10 x 1:2,7 49:1 6 1:9
12:2
28:18,21
26:20
