IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MICHELLE ORTIZ, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-737
PAULA JORDAN, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, November 1, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DAVID E. MILLS, ESQ., Cleveland, Ohio; on behalf of
Petitioner.
BENJAMIN C. MIZER, ESQ., Solicitor General, Columbus,
Ohio; on behalf of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DAVID E. MILLS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
BENJAMIN C. MIZER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID E. MILLS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 09-737, Ortiz v. Jordan.
Mr. Mills.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID E. MILLS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MILLS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Denial of summary judgment is not reviewable
on appeal after trial, especially where the decision
depends on whether the evidence on the merits of the
claim is sufficient to cross the legal line for
liability. In this case -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry to
interrupt so quickly, but that especially, I take it -
I take it, is a concession that there's a difference
between claims for qualified immunity based on evidence
and claims that are based on law.
MR. MILLS: Well, there's a difference
between defenses that depend on the evidence at trial.
What I would say about qualified immunity is that, to
the extent any court of appeals is going to enter
judgment based on qualified immunity, it needs to
understand the conduct of the officials in the case.
And so you're always talking about the evidence of that
conduct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, of course there's
always -- there are always facts. There are often
disputed facts. But suppose the issue is whether or not
this right -- and maybe there are two rights here -
this right was clearly established. That's -- that's an
issue of law.
MR. MILLS: That is -- that is an issue of
law, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And doesn't that fall
within the "except" clause that the Chief Justice was
talking to you about, which you haven't had much time to
fill out, I understand.
But -- well, if you're going to say -- and
it's really not whether the summary judgment is -- is
appealed. That's a little bit -- it's whether or not
the issues resolved by the summary judgment motion are
appealable. I read into your response, or implied from
your response, what the Chief Justice did, that maybe
sometimes the summary judgment motion, say, on an issue
of law is sufficient to preserve the issue.
MR. MILLS: Well -- and that gets to what I
think is the heart of the split in the circuits and the
confusion, is that every circuit recognizes a very
general rule that where the evidence at trial moots that
at summary judgment, we're not going to review the
summary judgment decision.
Now, a number of courts said: Well, wait a
second; there are summary judgment issues that don't
depend on the evidence, and we're -- those are typically
called questions of law. And Respondents point to a
number of good examples in their brief of defenses such
as statute of limitations, pre-emption, and the like,
that indeed very often don't depend at all on the
evidence at trial. The difference with qualified
immunity is that qualified immunity requires the court
to look at the evidence of the claim itself.
Now, statute of limitations, for example, is
actually quite different, because in statute of
limitations -- let's suppose Michelle Ortiz filed her
suit 20 years late. It would not matter at all how much
evidence she adduced of the Respondents' misconduct. It
would be barred by statute of limitations.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So Mr. Mills, what then
is the difference? You point out, quite rightly,
summary judgment looks to what evidence there was, and
the question for the court is: What could the plaintiff
prove? When we get past trial, the issue becomes: What
has the plaintiff proved?
So, what was brought out at trial? What was
the record at trial that was larger than the record at
summary judgment? Because if there -- if there was
no -- no new fact presentation, no more ample fact
presentation, then it wouldn't matter. It would be the
same body of evidence, right?
MR. MILLS: Well, I think that's largely -
largely right, Justice Ginsburg, and here's an example
of what did change in this case.
At the summary judgment stage, what we had
were affidavits of the Respondents discussing their role
in relation to this case, with no comment whatsoever
about what the consequences would have been had
Ms. Jordan immediately reported the first sexual
assault. The record was bare at summary judgment from
Respondents' perspective on that -- on that point.
At trial, under cross-examination,
Ms. Bright testified that Respondent Jordan indeed
violated prison policy by not reporting it and then,
very crucially, also agreed that the second, more
violent assault would have actually been precluded had
that report taken place.
Now, that's -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, this gets to what
troubles me about this case. Although the Sixth Circuit
referred to summary judgment in its opinion, it seems to
me the Sixth Circuit actually reviewed the evidence at
trial and determined that the defendants were entitled
to judgment as a matter of law based on the evidence at
trial.
So I don't know why this case actually
presents the question on which cert was granted. It
seems to me it presents a question of -- a purely
factual question in the end, whether there was -
whether judgment as a matter of law was appropriate.
And you never raised the judgment as a matter of law.
You never raised in the court of appeals, as
I understand it, the argument that the defendants'
ability to object to the entry of judgment as a matter
of law was waived because they never filed a Rule 50(b)
motion. Isn't that right?
MR. MILLS: Well -- well, there's a couple
points in there that I need to address.
First, I think that you are exactly right.
What the Sixth Circuit did here is it -- it reviewed a
summary judgment decision, but it did peek ahead to the
trial evidence, and it said it was doing that. I think
that highlights the fundamental problem of reviewing
summary judgment after the trial. The Sixth Circuit is
implicitly recognizing it would be illogical to look at
that summary judgment record, those affidavits, and then
ignore this cross-examined testimony of what -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose we were to
hold that they -- that they couldn't review the denial
of summary judgment. The case is remanded to them, and
they say: Okay, well, we made a slip of the pen when we
referred to summary judgment in the prior decision. We
really were saying that the defendants were entitled to
judgment as a matter of law, and, although there wasn't
a Rule 50(b) motion, that was waived because it wasn't
raised on appeal.
So we are -- we come back to exactly where
we are now. All we've done is to correct a slip of
the -- what was arguably a slip of the pen, perhaps
motivated by their belief that the Rule 50(b) issue is
jurisdictional. But it really is not under our cases
distinguishing between jurisdictional questions and
claims processing questions.
MR. MILLS: And I agree with that last
point. But here's the problem and here's why it isn't
just simply a slip of the pen that can be fixed by
remanding. Even if this was not summary judgment
whatsoever and it was, as Respondents say, essentially a
Rule 50(a) review, that conflicts with an entire line of
this Court's decisions leading into Unitherm, which
makes clear that the court of appeals absolutely lacks
the power to review the sufficiency of the evidence
where that question wasn't ruled upon by the district
court. And so the court of appeals here, regardless of
any sort of forfeiture argument, absolutely lacked the
power to consider it.
The additional point about your -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's not the point
that you've made here. I mean -- and that isn't the
point on which we granted certiorari.
MR. MILLS: That's right, and I think -- I
think what I just said about the 50(b) point is that I
think it highlights that this really was a summary
judgment review by the Sixth Circuit of -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Now, Mr. Mills, if I could
just understand your answer to Justice Alito. You
concede that the Sixth Circuit opinion is using the
record built on the whole trial and that that's a
different record from the record that existed at summary
judgment; is that correct?
MR. MILLS: I do concede it, except to the
extent that I concede they did an adequate review of the
record. But I -- I concede that point. For the example
-- for example -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So they have that first
paragraph where they suggest that they're ruling on a
summary judgment motion. Then they go through an entire
opinion that talks about the facts and the record. And
there are very few citations, but your understanding is
that when they talk about the facts in the records,
they're talking about the post-trial -- I mean the
record that has been built up as a result of the trial?
MR. MILLS: There are -- there are certainly
a number of instances where they definitely are talking
about the trial. I do think it -- it is even muddy the
extent to which they are incorporating trial facts
versus summary judgment facts. The example I gave about
this point where Ms. Bright conceded on cross that Ms.
Ortiz indeed would have been separated and the assault,
second assault, precluded, it's one of two things:
Either the Sixth Circuit's reviewing summary judgment
and picking a couple of trial facts it thinks helps to
review and missing the facts, or it's doing -- it's
looking ahead at these trial facts and because -
particularly because the district court never weighed in
on that, on a Rule 50(b), it's botching the record. And
it goes to the heart of this Court's cases from Cone
v. West Virginia Pulp & Paper in 1947 up through
Unitherm, which says we have to have the district court
review the sufficiency of the evidence before the court
of appeals could even have the power to possibly
consider -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That -- that answer is
not addressing Justice Alito's point, which he said a
Rule 50 motion is not jurisdictional. You are in
essence claiming it is. You're saying they lacked the
power, but Justice Alito's question to you said they
don't, that they've misread the fact that this is not a
jurisdictional motion. So address that question: Why
is it jurisdictional as opposed to a claim processing?
MR. MILLS: Your Honor, I -- I am not
disputing that the Sixth Circuit had jurisdiction to
consider the case. But I am making a distinction among
jurisdiction and power, and it's the same distinction
actually the Tenth Circuit employed in a case called
Williams v. Gonterman, which is cited in our reply
brief; I think it's at page 10. This exact issue came
up, where the verdict loser said: Wait a second; this
issue's been forfeited. The Tenth Circuit, reading
Unitherm, reading the debate between the majority and
the dissenters, who said plain error and those doctrines
should apply, said: We lack the power to review this;
we have jurisdiction, but we lack the power to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The claim processing
rules, we have said that, unless you object, the court
doesn't lack power. Since you didn't object below to a
-- a argument that Rule 50(b) precluded consideration by
the court of appeals, why wasn't that argument waived
before the court?
MR. MILLS: It's not waived because, while
the general principle is that claims processing rules
are indeed subject to waiver and forfeiture, this
particular context, as this Court has made clear, that
the word "power" is not an accidental use. It's been
used in all of these cases.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why is it -- I mean,
power -- jurisdiction is power, power to proceed in a
case. But we are in an area where there are many, many
cases of this Court that distinguish the Rule 50(a),
50(b) from the run-of-the-mine claim processing rule
because in the background is the Seventh Amendment
Re-examination Clause. That's the whole reason why
there is this 50(a)-50(b) litany, why the verdict loser
must repeat the 50(a) motion, after -- after the
verdict.
So I'm surprised that you're using the word
"power." You're not referring to any of that history
which stems from a constitutional provision, the Seventh
Amendment.
MR. MILLS: Well, Justice Ginsburg, you're
absolutely correct, and I think that footnote 4 of
Unitherm goes right to your point. In footnote 4 of
Unitherm, the Court explains that the very reason a
court of appeals lacks the power, lacks the power to
review that question, is because it is essentially, as
in Unitherm, going to be as a court of appeals reviewing
the conduct -- the sufficiency of the evidence, without
a district court ruling on the question. And this Court
said in Unitherm that that raises serious Seventh
Amendment concerns. This case is actually a very good
example -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, Mr. Mills, I got you
started on this, but this -- none of this is the
question on which we granted review, is it?
MR. MILLS: Well -
JUSTICE ALITO: We didn't grant review to
decide whether a court of appeals can consider judgment
of a -- judgment as a matter of law where there isn't a
50(b) motion and no argument is made that the -- that
issue was waived by failing to make the motion. We
didn't grant review on that.
MR. MILLS: And, Justice Alito, that
highlights another important point about this exchange,
and that is that Respondents in the Sixth Circuit did
not suggest that the Sixth Circuit did have the
authority to take the summary judgment question and then
look ahead to trial facts. And so, the Sixth Circuit
has taken the summary judgment decision and then acted
without authority to look ahead at the trial facts. And
so if the argument is that we have forfeited a
pre-emptive argument to the Sixth Circuit that it
couldn't do this frankly very unorthodox approach, I
don't think that that's a proper invocation of
forfeiture even regardless of the point about power.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What -- are you saying
then that if we explain to the Fifth Circuit -- to the
Sixth Circuit, that the record they must look at is the
trial record, so it's different from the summary
judgment stage, if we told them that, then maybe they
would look at the evidence differently, even though they
purported to look at the trial evidence?
MR. MILLS: Well, I think if that order were
given, they would indeed do that. But I would still
come back to the point that there is absolutely no basis
on which they would have the authority to do that. And
the point is, in the Unitherm line of cases, that if you
don't have a district court ruling on the very question,
the question here of whether their conduct, as they say,
crossed a constitutional line, you're circumventing the
district court's role in the entire process.
As this Court has explained repeatedly, a
requisite of a court of appeals reviewing that evidence
that went to the jury is that the district court first,
who has the feel of the case, who saw the witnesses, who
saw Respondent Bright on cross-examination, first have
the opportunity in the judge's discretion to grant a new
trial -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, if you're right, then
there has to be a remand to the Sixth Circuit with
instructions to send the case back to the district court
to ask the district court what -- whether it thought the
evidence was sufficient?
MR. MILLS: I don't think so, Your Honor. I
think that the best way to see this case is it's indeed
a review of the summary judgment decision. That's the
only decision by the district court that had to do with
qualified immunity.
The Sixth Circuit expressly invoked an
exception to say: We can review summary judgment after
the trial because it's qualified immunity; and the
Eighth Circuit said that's okay and we say that's okay;
we're looking ahead at trial facts.
And I think what this Court can and should
conclude is that it's improper to review the summary
judgment decision after trial because the facts have
changed -
JUSTICE ALITO: And your argument is that
where a --the district court denies summary judgment on
a qualified immunity issue that is based even purely on
an issue of law, there can't be a review unless that's
renewed -- there can't be appellate review unless that
purely legal question is renewed in a Rule 50(b) motion.
That's your -- that's your argument?
MR. MILLS: That is my argument, with a
couple key pieces -- first of all, they could, of
course, take a collateral order appeal, but if they
proceed to trial -- and here's -- here's sort of the
fundamental point about qualified immunity. Sure, there
are purely legal questions in the qualified immunity
inquiry. Was the right clearly established? But to
enter judgment, to enter judgment, whether it's the
district court or the court of appeals, that court must
know what the conduct is.
JUSTICE ALITO: But what if the facts are
utterly undisputed? There's a videotape of exactly what
went on. Nobody has the slightest disagreement about
the facts. The only question is whether the right was
clearly established, and the district court rejects that
at summary judgment. What benefit -- what is the point
of saying that the defendants have to raise that same
issue again in a Rule 50(b) motion? It's utterly a -- a
pointless exercise.
MR. MILLS: Well, it's certainly a less
compelling case than this one where the facts indeed
change. But I would say that there -- it's not utterly
pointless because the 50(b) motion still invokes all the
protections that this Court has described where the
district court, who had the feel of the case, gets the
first chance to consider whether a new trial should be
granted -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Mills, when -- when
Unitherm talks about the district court feeling the case
and having a feel for the case, it's talking about
having the feel for the evidence and for the facts. The
whole rationale of Unitherm is based on the evidence,
the facts, not on purely legal questions.
So suppose we disagree with you about the
reach of Unitherm. Suppose we say Unitherm doesn't have
any application to purely legal questions. What would
that mean for your case? Which part of your claims were
purely legal and which part were instead founded on the
facts, in which case you would have a better Unitherm
argument?
MR. MILLS: It -- it would still mean you'd
have to reverse in this case, and I think in
Justice Alito's hypothetical perhaps, perhaps not.
But in this case, as -- as Respondents
themselves say, the question here is actually very
simple. It's whether their conduct crossed a
constitutional line. And the point is that, even in the
qualified immunity inquiry, the question is: Does the
conduct -- and that's conduct in one way at summary
judgment and another way at trial -- does that conduct
cross a clearly established constitutional line?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't understand,
counsel, how your argument -- that in every case you
need to know the facts, every qualified immunity case
you need to know the facts, and those only come out
after trial -- is consistent with our recognizing that
you can have a collateral order appeals denial of
summary judgment. In other words, you can consider
qualified immunity without knowing how the facts are
going to come out at trial, which is why we allow you to
have an appeal before trial.
MR. MILLS: You're absolutely right. And at
summary judgment, officers are entitled to invoke
immunity, and they're entitled to take that immediate
appeal. And it's typically -- well, required under
Johnson v. Jones that it be what this Court's called a
question of law. The defendants assume the facts
against them, and they say to the court of appeals, it
may be a purely legal question, like this isn't -- this
is clearly established or isn't clearly established.
But to -- to say whether that line is crossed, I mean,
as recently as Iqbal, this Court explained -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well -- so you're
just saying your case on qualified immunity isn't like
that case; is that all?
MR. MILLS: Well, I'm saying it -- it's like
that case to the extent that the court still has to
understand, if it's going to enter judgment, what the
conduct was. Even if it's looking at purely legal -
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, it doesn't. It doesn't
have to know what it was. It assumes it to be what -
what the plaintiff claims it was.
MR. MILLS: That's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: At the summary judgments,
you give the benefit of the doubt to the plaintiff.
MR. MILLS: That's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So there's always a factual
element to the -- to the ruling.
MR. MILLS: That's right. And I -- I think
that bolsters my point. There is always a factual
element to the ruling. And so, when you go to trial and
you put on a trial that is all about Respondents'
conduct and you have them under cross-examination and
that evidence grows of their misconduct, then we're
talking about a situation where -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's never going to be any
better than what you assumed. It's never going to be
any better for the plaintiff than what you assumed at
the summary judgment stage.
MR. MILLS: Your Honor, it actually was in
this case. It actually was better at trial in this
case -
JUSTICE SCALIA: For -- for -
MR. MILLS: -- for the plaintiff.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why was that?
MR. MILLS: And it was -- one example I gave
earlier: Ms. Ortiz, before trial, didn't have knowledge
of what would have happened had Mrs. Jordan not violated
prison procedures and immediately reported the first
assault. On cross-examination, however, Mrs. Bright, at
page 242 of the trial transcript, said: "The second
assault, the violent assault, would have been
precluded."
Now, it seems to me, again reading the cold
transcript -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's -- just finish:
Because if Ms. Jordan had reported the incident that she
was required to, they would have put Ms. Ortiz in
segregation automatically; is that it?
MR. MILLS: Not that they would have put her
in segregation, but that they would have taken steps to
separate her from the officer, whether that meant
removing the officer from the location or putting her in
another cell. The important piece of that is not only
did it change from summary judgment to trial; the Sixth
Circuit got it entirely wrong.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you have an
obligation in opposing summary judgment to, in your list
of disputed facts or facts that preclude summary
judgment, to put all that in. And why didn't you put
the point you are raising now in the opposition to
summary judgment?
MR. MILLS: That's not something Ms. Ortiz
would have knowledge of.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know. So it -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- you prevailed
on the summary judgment motion. There was a summary
judgment motion, right? And it was denied.
MR. MILLS: That's right. That's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So the -- we know that
the district judge thought that, at that point, there
was a case to be presented for trial based on the
plaintiff's allegations.
MR. MILLS: That's absolutely right. And -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but -- but you
may prevail. You may have three different factual
disputes that the other side is saying are undisputed,
and the fact that you prevail on one doesn't meant that
you didn't have an obligation to put in your opposition
the others.
MR. MILLS: Well, Your Honor, I -- I just
can't see how Ms. Ortiz would have an obligation to put
in some fact that's outside of her knowledge and,
frankly, something that came out when a Respondent caved
in a bit on cross-examination.
JUSTICE BREYER: How would you put the rule
about when you have to renew a motion? You move for
summary judgment. Can you say this? You've looked up
the treatises and so forth. If the motion for summary
judgment involves either a question of fact or a mixed
question of fact and law, it has to be renewed. If it
involves neither of the others, neither of those two
things, but it's a pure question of law and not mixed,
it doesn't have to be renewed.
MR. MILLS: I think that's -- that's a fair
way to state it.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any authority for
that? I mean, is there any -- it seems to be roughly
what you're trying to argue, roughly. At least it seems
to me a rule that would make sense. Is it that -- what
do you find related to that? It seems to me that must
have been thought about before this minute.
MR. MILLS: Well -
JUSTICE BREYER: Not necessarily by you, but
by somebody.
MR. MILLS: Yes, indeed. I think it has
been thought about. I think it's been thought about
really by every circuit when they recognize the very
basic principle that the real evidence of a case is the
evidence at the trial, and what that means is that, if
the evidence at trial goes to the question at summary
judgment, whatever that legal issue may be, it's
illogical to ignore exactly what happened at trial and
go back to summary judgment.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but let's imagine it
has nothing to do with qualified immunity.
MR. MILLS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: A bread-and-butter case.
MR. MILLS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: You can't appeal a denial
of motion for summary judgment. But there's a trial and
the lawyer forgets to renew the motion. So sometimes
he's lost it; I guess sometimes he hasn't. I would
think he would have lost it if it's a mixed question of
fact or law or if it's a pure question of fact that the
answer turns on. I would think he hadn't lost it if in
fact it's a pure question of law. But is that the basic
hornbook rule out of this context?
MR. MILLS: Yes, I think it is. I think it
is the basic horn rule -
JUSTICE KAGAN: And, Mr. Mills, if that were
the basic hornbook rule, your claims are all matters of
fact or mixed questions of fact and law?
MR. MILLS: Our claims are mixed questions
of fact and law, yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: There are no purely legal
issues?
MR. MILLS: There are purely legal
components to those inquiries; there's no doubt about
it. Again, a purely legal question might be what is the
constitutional right; is it clearly established?
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that's what I'm
asking. I'm asking is -- is -- are the questions that
you have those sorts of questions, or are they factual
inquiries that would fall on the other side of
Justice Breyer's line?
MR. MILLS: At the end of the day, these are
factual inquiries in which you have to understand the
officers' conduct. All I'm saying is that the second
component to establish immunity or anything else does
include always a pure question about whether the right's
clearly established. But there is no doubt that, to
assess whether that line has been crossed, you have to
understand what the facts are.
JUSTICE ALITO: The -- what's -- determining
what is a mixed question is notoriously difficult. What
about the -- the situation where the -- the ruling is,
assuming certain facts to be true, the -- the right was
not clearly established? Now, is the fact that certain
facts are assumed to be true enough to make that a mixed
question?
MR. MILLS: Yes, it is, because that's a
classic sufficiency challenge at Rule 50, to assume
the -- that's what Rule 50 requires. Assume the facts
against you after the verdict's come back and now say,
you know what, Your Honor, it was insufficient.
I'd like to reserve my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Mizer.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN C. MIZER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. MIZER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
As I think the discussion has already
demonstrated, Ms. Ortiz's question presented hinges on a
false assumption. That assumption is that the Sixth
Circuit was reviewing the summary judgment order as the
final appealable order in this case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Except that it begins,
2(a), "Although courts normally do not review the denial
of a summary judgment motion after trial on the merits,
the denial of summary judgment based on qualified
immunity is an exception to this rule." And that's -
MR. MIZER: And -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's the opening. That
sets the stage for what follows.
MR. MIZER: And -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now, it may be that
everybody, including the Sixth Circuit, misapprehended
the rule because there are some cases that depend on an
assessment of the record and some cases that don't, but
that's not what the Sixth Circuit said.
MR. MIZER: I think that the Sixth Circuit's
word choice in the sentence that you just read was not
perfectly clear, but -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Mizer, you asked
for an appeal of the summary judgment motion, so they
might have chosen their words based on your request.
MR. MIZER: Actually, Your Honor, the
summary judgment motion was only one of several orders
listed in the notice of appeal. And the Sixth Circuit
brief was very clearly couched as an appeal from the
verdict, which at the bottom of the prior page of the -
of the petition appendix, from where Justice Kennedy
just read, the bottom of page 7a, the Sixth Circuit
calls it an "appeal from the jury verdict."
And then the Sixth Circuit, at petition
appendix 2a and throughout its opinion, refers to "trial
evidence."
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But, Mr. Mizer, then you
must concede that this opening sentence that
Justice Kennedy just quoted is wrong. Courts normally
don't review the denial of summary judgment motion after
trial on the merits, but when the summary judgment
denial is based on qualified immunity, there's an
exception.
MR. MIZER: I think that what the Sixth
Circuit meant there was that the issue of qualified
immunity raised at summary judgment was preserved. I
don't think its word choice was perfectly clear, but I
think other -- other phrases in the Sixth Circuit's
opinion make clearer that what it was doing was viewing
the full trial record and viewing -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that we should -- I
think what that means to me is that you really ignore
whether it was raised at summary judgment. If you're
going to look at the evidence at trial, what do we look
at, at trial, to see that the claim of qualified
immunity was preserved?
MR. MIZER: It would -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because it's a little
illogical to -- to say you're reviewing the summary
judgment record when you're not.
MR. MIZER: Well, and I don't think the
Sixth Circuit was saying it was reviewing the summary
judgment record, and that would have been not
appropriate. What it was doing was looking at the whole
record. And a legal issue doesn't have to be raised
post-trial in order for it to have been adequately -
JUSTICE BREYER: But surely it has to be
raised post-trial if your legal argument is: Look at
the facts; the facts of this case as proved do not
support liability.
I mean, I would have thought that was a
classic instance where you do have to make the motion.
That's the whole point of having to renew it.
MR. MIZER: To the extent -
JUSTICE BREYER: Am I wrong?
MR. MIZER: Partly, yes, Your Honor. To the
extent the -- the argument is that there needed to be a
50(b) motion -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why not?
MR. MIZER: -- and it was -
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, do you normally -
forget this case. What the lawyer says is: Judge, they
are never going to be able to prove that my client
crossed the intersection. Okay? We go to trial. At
trial, he wants to say: We've heard all the evidence
now, and it doesn't show my client crossed the
intersection, so not liable. Okay?
Doesn't he have to renew it?
MR. MIZER: In your hypothetical?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. MIZER: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Fine.
MR. MIZER: But that's been -
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, how is yours one bit
different? Because what you're saying is that the
evidence, when you look at it, will show the facts are
such that there must have been qualified immunity under
the law.
MR. MIZER: The difference, Your Honor, is
that this Court's case law concerning -- the Mitchell
line of cases concerning collateral order appeals in the
qualified immunity context divides qualified immunity
claims into two halves.
There are evidentiary sufficiency-based
qualified immunity claims, and there are legal claims.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, that -- that is
right, and I find it, in the context where that already
matters, whether they're appealable as a collateral
issue already very difficult and complicated to sort
out. Now, what you want us to do is take that
difficulty and continue it on in terms of when you can
appeal and when you can't.
Some qualified immunity claims are purely
legal. Some are purely factual. Some are in the
middle. Wouldn't it be easier if we just said: Here's
the rule from now on; you've got to renew them all in a
50(b) motion. And that makes it a lot easier for the
trial courts and the appellate courts to figure out when
they have to -- when they can consider it and when they
can't.
I understand your argument that it makes a
difference. I think it's a good argument, because some
don't depend on the facts. But going forward, it just
creates an awful lot of difficulty that we don't need to
buy into.
MR. MIZER: Well, first of all, I think
that, because it is a difficult question, it should have
been raised by Ms. Ortiz properly, and she hasn't raised
the 50(b) argument properly. But even if the Court were
to reach it, I think the clearer rule is to map the
Johnson line onto the sufficiency of the evidence line,
otherwise -- for 50(b) motions. Otherwise, then -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The Johnson line isn't much
of a map, is what the Chief Justice is suggesting. It's
a mess. It's very hard to sort those things out. Why
-- why should we double the difficulty by -- by bringing
it in at the -- at the Rule 50 stage as well?
MR. MIZER: Because the converse rule, Your
Honor, would create even more difficulties. On
Ms. Ortiz's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? All you have to do -
any lawyer going in knows he has to make the motion at
the close of the evidence. What -- what's the big deal?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And, in fact, you did.
You did move under 50(a). This whole case is here
because apparently -- well, what reason was it that you
didn't make the 50(b) motion? You told the court under
50(a), after all the evidence was in but before the case
went to the jury, that the jury would not have a legally
sufficient evidentiary basis to find for Ms. Ortiz.
That was -- that was your motion.
You were saying: Court, there was no
legally sufficient evidentiary basis. Evidentiary
basis. That was the motion that you made, recognizing
that the judgment -- the question is whether there is a
sufficient evidentiary basis.
MR. MIZER: And that argument is a different
species of argument than the argument on which -- than
the -- than the reasoning on which the Sixth Circuit
resolved the case, which is, even assuming all the facts
as given by Ms. Ortiz and taking -- treating those facts
as uncontroverted, still there was not a violation of
clearly established law.
And under Johnson v. Jones and Mitchell,
that is a different question than from the question of
whether or not particular conduct has been proven.
As -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, then what you're
saying is you didn't even -- you didn't need to make the
50(a) motion, that that was just an unnecessary touching
base with Rule 50(a)? Is that what you're saying?
MR. MIZER: That is our position, yes, Your
Honor, because a legal issue is adequately preserved
once it's pressed and passed on in the district court.
And to move for summary judgment on the issue is enough
to preserve a legal claim, the legal claim being not
that particular -- that sufficient evidence exists to
prove that particular conduct occurred, but rather that
the -- given all of that, that claim as assumed, still,
the Harlow line of objective legal reasonableness has
not been crossed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But didn't they -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose there are some
cases in which the failure of the court to give a
requested instruction preserves the issue, and perhaps
50(b) is not required there.
Were there any instructions proffered and
denied in this case that would have preserved the issue
for appeal?
MR. MIZER: There was a requested
instruction regarding qualified immunity, yes, and it
was not given. We're not arguing that that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What was that
instruction?
MR. MIZER: The -- the instruction was about
the objective legal reasonableness standard under
Harlow. I actually don't think that that request was
proper -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have a cite to
the record?
MR. MIZER: I don't have a cite to the
record at the moment. But -- but the -- the point is
that actually, that that instruction wasn't proper,
because the jury doesn't resolve the Harlow objective
legal reasonableness question. Instead, the jury
resolves the disputed facts, and then the court takes
those facts as a given for purposes of the Harlow
question.
And -- and, in this case, I think there's an
example of this distinction. There was very much
disputed at trial the question of whether Ms. Ortiz told
Ms. Jordan the name of the guard who had assaulted her.
And that fact was disputed at trial. We -- we didn't
move for 50(b) over that factual dispute, and so we
couldn't appeal on that question.
But what we did appeal was that, taking that
fact as assumed for purposes of -- of the qualified
immunity question, still qualified immunity was
warranted.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then explain to me what
-- you made a 50(a) motion. Why did you -- was there a
reason for making the 50(a) motion and not following it
up with a 50(b) motion?
MR. MIZER: I'm not aware of a reason, Your
Honor. But at pages 4 to 5 of the joint appendix, I
think it's clear that there were two different types of
arguments being made at the 50(a) stage. One argument
was a dispute over facts. The other argument was, even
if we don't dispute those facts, still Ms. Ortiz's
arguments haven't shown a constitutional violation.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How could you -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's -- it's very clear
from Rule 50 that 50(a) and 50(b) go together, and the
explanation, as I indicated when Petitioner's counsel
was speaking, is the Re-examination Clause of the
Seventh Amendment. So I think every first year
Procedure student learns 50(a), 50(b) go together, and
there's a historic reason why you must back up a 50(a)
motion with a 50(b) motion. They're not -- they all -
they all ask the same question. The Rule 56, the Rule
50, 50(b), they all ask: Is there sufficient evidence
to warrant a jury finding, whatever. They all ask that,
but they ask -- ask it on the basis of a different
record: the summary judgment record, the trial record,
and the jury verdict.
MR. MIZER: But still, Your Honor, I think
the question of whether particular conduct has been
proven is a sufficiency question, and that differs in
nature from the question of whether, taking that proven
conduct as a given, assuming it to be true, without -
without questioning the correctness of the plaintiff's
version of the facts, that the -- then the Harlow
question is a separate question.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you know of any case
holding that you don't have to couple a 50(a) motion
with a 50(b) motion depending upon what's in your 50(a)
motion?
MR. MIZER: I am not aware of any case, no,
although I am aware of cases, including the K & T
Enterprises case from the Seventh -- or sorry -- from
the Sixth Circuit, that we cite in our brief, which says
that legal claims, purely legal claims, may be raised in
judgment as a matter of law motions under either 50(a)
or 50(b), but that 50(b) is not required with respect to
those motions.
And so -- so the 50(a) motion here was a
belt-and-suspenders -- belt-and-suspenders effort, but
it wasn't legally required because of the -- the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could -- could you
articulate for me the line that you see between assuming
all of the facts and it's not enough as a matter of law,
and a sufficiency claim. And -- and let's break out the
two claims: one against Ms. Jordan, one against Ms.
Bright.
On a due process claim against Ms. Bright,
there are two prongs, I think, to your argument. One is
that, as a matter of law under Sandin, putting her in
solitary confinement did not violate any -- any
constitutional right. And then there's "she didn't
retaliate" part of your claim.
The two seemed mixed up to me, below. And I
thought in reading your submissions to the district
court you were saying that, if she retaliated in putting
her in segregated confinement, it doesn't matter whether
there is a Sandin violation or not; she couldn't do the
retaliatory act; is that correct?
MR. MIZER: The -- the Sixth Circuit held in
this case that the retaliation claim is a different
claim from the due process claim, that it would be based
on -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The First Amendment.
MR. MIZER: -- the First Amendment or some
other amendment. And -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm trying to separate
out your -
MR. MIZER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- your argument,
however. What is your -- what is your position on this
question?
MR. MIZER: Our position is that the Sixth
Circuit got it right, and Ms. Ortiz hasn't appealed to
this Court on that holding, that as a -- as a matter of
law under Sandin, placing an individual in segregated
confinement does not amount to a due process violation
vis-à-vis the -- the ordinary conditions of prison
confinement.
I also have an answer, Justice Sotomayor, to
your question about the -- the jury instruction request.
It's in document 84 in the district court record.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, you -- you refer to
Sandin. There are some extra things about the
confinement here. She was shackled, she was ill, and
nobody attended to her.
MR. MIZER: The -- the medical treatment
claims were dismissed by the district court at summary
judgment because Ms. Bright did not participate and did
not have any knowledge of -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, is -- on the
question of whether this treatment was punitive rather
than just protective custody.
MR. MIZER: And, again, on the question of
punitiveness, the Sixth Circuit held that that was not
preserved -- that claim was not preserved by Ms. Ortiz.
And she has not petitioned to this Court for review of
that holding by the Sixth Circuit, and so the only
question is the square Sandin question of whether
segregated confinement is an atypical and significant
hardship vis-à-vis the routine conditions of -- of her
confinement.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, wouldn't it be
this, the segregated confinement in this case, not at
large?
MR. MIZER: The -- again, the Sixth
Circuit's holding was that Sandin answered that -- that
question as a matter of clearly established law. And
since Ms. Ortiz hasn't petitioned for review of the
merits of that question, I'm not sure how it's presented
to this Court.
JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Mizer, is it your
understanding that -- that Unitherm was based on Seventh
Amendment considerations, or was it based on prior
decisions that in turn were grounded on considerations
of fairness to the verdict-winner, namely the
opportunity, when a -- a motion for judgment as a matter
of law is made after the verdict, to move for dismissal
without prejudice or move for a new trial?
MR. MIZER: I think Unitherm was more
squarely the latter, although it -- the Court did refer
to the Seventh Amendment in responding to Justice
Stevens's dissent. And the Seventh Amendment concerns I
don't think are implicated here, because it is well
established that legal claims like qualified immunity
are not for the jury to resolve. And so taking -
taking the case away from -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, then you're -
you're saying the category -- the mixed claim -- as
Justice Breyer proposed, if it's a purely legal claim,
then you're right. If it's a mixed claim, then you're
wrong.
MR. MIZER: And I think those -- those
categorizations are -- are fairly slippery and would be
difficult to apply, as I think the Chief Justice
suggested. And so the guidance that is clear is the
guidance that already exists from Johnson v. Jones,
which is that there are -- there two types of qualified
immunity claims, and if you're assuming the facts to be
true as the plaintiff posits them and you're not
controverting particular conduct, then you're in the
legal -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Mizer, just -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: One -- one way to make the
formulation work is to say whether or not the issue
depends on an assessment of the record.
MR. MIZER: Well, qualified immunity is
always going to be an application of clearly established
law to fact. And Mitchell notes that -- that there will
be some -- some -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but we've been
through this. I think it was Justice Alito who gave the
hypothetical -- suppose that everybody agrees on what
happened; the question is whether or not the right's
clearly established.
MR. MIZER: And that is this case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's a pure issue of
law.
MR. MIZER: And, as this Court has called
it, that's correct and that is this case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How is that -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, is it this case, Mr.
Mizer? Take the deliberate indifference claim. The
question is whether the conduct amounted to deliberate
indifference. Why is that any different from asking
whether a particular kind of conduct amounted to
negligence, which in a previous case this Court said you
had did have to make 50(b), a 50(b) motion in order to
preserve? That was in the Johnson v. New York case.
MR. MIZER: It's different, Your Honor,
because the -- the prong of the analysis in the
deliberate indifference conduct that the Sixth Circuit
was looking at was the objective prong of whether or not
the response was reasonable. So assuming all of the
worst of -- of Ms. Jordan's intent, as proven by the
trial record, and assuming the worst of what she did or
didn't do, still her response was as a legal matter
objectively reasonable, and that was the Sixth Circuit's
holding.
And so, therefore, because that's a legal
inquiry, there was no 50(b) requirement even if Ms.
Ortiz had preserved the 50(b) argument.
The -- the -- Ms. Ortiz has also posited
that a collateral order appeal is a requirement in order
to preserve a qualified immunity claim. That argument
is clearly foreclosed not only by the broad agreement
among the circuits but also by this Court's decisions in
United States v. Clark.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. When you go back -
you're the one who has read these cases pretty
thoroughly, and as I looked at it, I -- with the
incomplete knowledge, I would have thought that
Justice Ginsburg's statement of it is basically right.
What Rule 50 is about is sufficiency of the evidence.
And 50(a) involves we're saying it won't be sufficient.
And 50(b) involves it wasn't sufficient. Then you could
have the Chief Justice's rule. It would work perfectly.
But apparently there's a Second Circuit
case, and some things in the treatises, that says
sometimes Rule 50(a) is being used for some other
purpose. And that's what seems to be going wrong. Like
if you have a pure question of law, you ought to be
outside 50(a); you ought to be doing some other thing.
You know, a question like: Was there collateral
estoppel that means that he couldn't say he was a
policeman because they litigated this 4 months ago?
That's a pure question of law.
So, what are these cases and that exception
in the treatise about? What are they thinking of? What
kinds of instances do they think come under 50(a) that
aren't sufficiency of the evidence?
MR. MIZER: The -- the courts have said that
you had can raise in a judgment as a matter of law
motion legal arguments like the statute of limitations,
collateral estoppel, pre-emption. Very often those will
be -
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Suppose we could say
this: That when a lawyer uses 50(a) to make the kind of
motion that does not involve sufficiency of the evidence
but rather, in fact, could be made without 50(a), under
those circumstances, he doesn't have to say 50(b). How
would that work?
MR. MIZER: That would work just fine from
our perspective, Your Honor, and in fact -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I don't know it would
work fine, because it seems to me you have a lot of
sufficiency of the evidence thing, but that's another
question.
MR. MIZER: The -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I -- why do you
-- why do you seem to concede that 50(a) only -- only
applies to evidentiary stuff? I mean -
JUSTICE BREYER: They're not -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the way it reads is, if
during a trial by jury, a party has been fully heard and
there is no -- no legally sufficient evidentiary basis
for a reasonable jury to find for that party on that
issue. Well, if it's as a matter of law, no amount of
evidence would ever allow a -- a jury verdict in that
direction. Surely, that falls within -- within (a) -
MR. MIZER: And that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- even though evidence has
nothing to do with it. No matter what the evidence is,
this is simply a matter of law. No jury, no reasonable
jury, could find for that party on that issue. I don't
read this as being purely a -- you know, a provision
governing whether there is -- there's enough evidence in
an area where there is no absolute rule of law. I think
it applies to the absolute rule of law as well.
MR. MIZER: If -- if Rule 50(b) -- if Rule
50(a) and 50(b) motions were required for all matters of
law, then that would change the hornbook understanding
of what 50(b) is about. It would expand the Unitherm
requirement in -- in ways that it hasn't been applied
before, and it would turn Rule 50(b) motions into a
clearinghouse for anything that must be -- that's going
to be raised on appeal. That's not -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that bad? That's
what Justice -- the Chief Justice asked you earlier.
Why is that such a horrible thing?
MR. MIZER: Your Honor, because it would
radically change the way that -- that 50(b) is currently
treated by parties. If it -- for example, in the
Southern District of Ohio, where this case -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You -- I'm -- I'm not
sure that answers the question.
Isn't it better for the court of appeals to
know a district court's opinion on every issue that's
going to come up on appeal? And wouldn't our
announcement of a rule -- that whether it's an issue of
law or fact, it has to be renewed under 50(b), so
everybody's on the same page as to what's going to be
heard on appeal -- why is that a bad rule? Why would
that be a bad outcome as a matter of law?
MR. MIZER: Because, Your Honor, the
Rule 50(b) motions would then become miniature -- or not
even miniature -- full-blown appellate briefs. And the
rule in the Southern District of Ohio at the moment, for
example, is that 50(b) motions are 20 pages long. If -
JUSTICE ALITO: I mean, the answer is it's a
-- it's a pointless gotcha rule. That's -- that's -
isn't that the answer? It's a pure issue of law, and
the district court has already said: I ruled on this on
summary judgment; don't bother me with this again. And
we're going to say, well, you still have to raise it in
a 50(b) motion? What -- that'd be -- that's -- that
there's no point. We might as well say that the lawyer
has to stand on his head when the motion is made or jump
up and down three times.
MR. MIZER: That's correct, Your Honor. And
the current rule -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The point would be that,
therefore, you don't have to sort out whether there -
there is any factual content to this issue. You don't
have to sort out what's a pure question of law and what
is a mixed question of law and fact, which is always
very difficult. What's the big deal? Make the motion.
MR. MIZER: Because, Your Honor, the -- the
district courts have never insisted, nor do the rules
insist, that the district courts get multiple cracks at
a legal question. And the parties -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The -- the purpose of
50(b) -- Justice Alito brought out that it's not simply
the historical background of the Seventh Amendment, but
in that same line of cases, the Court gave a practical
reason. And the practical reason related to the
district court, that if the motion is made after the
jury comes in, the district judge would have the
opportunity to exercise her discretion to grant a new
trial.
Let's take -- is it Ms. Bright -- where the
Sixth Circuit said that, well, maybe there could have
been a retaliation claim, but the plaintiff didn't make
it. The district judge, given the chance, might have
said: I would exercise my discretion to allow the
plaintiff to have a new trial on this retaliation claim.
I thought it was before -- before the court and it was a
good claim. The Sixth Circuit thought it wasn't.
I mean, the purpose is to get the district
judge into the picture to exercise the district judge's
discretion on the very question.
MR. MIZER: But if a claim is not in a case,
Your Honor, then there's no discretion as to whether or
not to give it to the jury. And so, just as the
qualified immunity question doesn't -- doesn't belong
with the jury, so, too, a claim that hasn't been
adequately pressed doesn't go to the jury.
And so we're not talking about questions
that should and can be resolved by the jury. We're
talking about legal claims that the jury has no business
deciding at all.
JUSTICE BREYER: Your case, anyway, is a
case, judging from what they wrote, which -- I'm back to
where I started -- the mixed questions and the
fact-based questions are you really have to renew your
motion. And reading your opinion, it seems to me it's
filled with determinations of fact. They're reviewing
what the jury did and could have found, and on the basis
of what they could have found, they say you're not
entitled to -- or you are entitled to qualified
immunity.
So this would seem like a hornbook case
where you have to make the motion, and if you have to
make the motion, you didn't; and if you didn't, you
don't go back and review the facts as the motion on the
basis of the facts as they were before the trial. End
of matter. What's wrong with that?
MR. MIZER: I would disagree with the
characterization of the Sixth Circuit's opinion as
resolving factual questions, because on the contrary, I
think -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I mean they went
on the jury's resolution of the facts.
MR. MIZER: That's correct. And so it's
the -- the -
JUSTICE BREYER: For that reason, they can't
take the facts as they were in your motion for summary
judgment. They have to take them on the basis of -
they can't just go back and review them on the -- yes.
MR. MIZER: And that goes to show, Your
Honor, that the Sixth Circuit wasn't -- wasn't doing
what Ms. Ortiz has -- what Ms. Ortiz has posited, which
is that they were reviewing the summary judgment record
order.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Mizer, suppose
that they were. Suppose they committed an error in that
respect and that they thought they were reviewing the
summary judgment order, and not the final judgment.
If that's what they thought, would you agree
that they had no jurisdiction at that point to take that
appeal because the 30 days had run?
MR. MIZER: Yes. Then it would be like a
late collateral order appeal that -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So your position is -
rests, is dependent, on our finding that the Sixth
Circuit was reviewing a final judgment order, which was
not what the Sixth Circuit in fact said it was doing.
MR. MIZER: Again, I would disagree that
that's what the Sixth Circuit said because of the
language at the bottom of page 7a of the petition
appendix, where they clearly say that it's an appeal
from the verdict.
And so because it's demonstrably not true
that they were treating the summary judgment order as
the final appealable order here, the question presented
by Ms. Ortiz is not actually presented by this case.
And the further arguments that a 50(b) motion was
required here under Unitherm were never made in the
Sixth Circuit and not made in her opening cert petition.
And so that argument also is not presented by this case.
And so I think the clear resolution is to
dismiss the case as improvidently granted, but if the
Court were inclined to the view that the merits should
be reached, then the clear rule that we posit resolves
the case, which is that orders made by the district
court along the way in the course of a district court
proceeding are adequately preserved for appellate review
from the final judgment once they are pressed and passed
on below.
If there are no further questions -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I didn't hear your -- your
last -- are adequately preserved when?
MR. MIZER: Once they are pressed and passed
on by the district court. And the qualified immunity
claim here was pressed and passed on -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you're saying that if
there's anything in the record of the trial that
indicates that the judge ruled on the issue, there need
not be a 50(b) motion?
MR. MIZER: That's correct, Your Honor. And
the lower courts, I think, are well-equipped to assess
whether or not an issue has adequately been pressed and
passed on in the district court.
That has been the settled rule of appellate
reviewability, and I don't think that it should be
changed by imposing a Rule 50(b) requirement for
anything other than a sufficiency of the evidence
motion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I just want to be
clear. Your answer to Justice Kennedy had the caveat
that except for the issue we addressed in Unitherm.
MR. MIZER: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
MR. MIZER: If there are no further
questions, we ask you to affirm the Sixth Circuit.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Mills, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID E. MILLS
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. MILLS: Thank you.
The -- one thing that's important about the
Sixth Circuit's language when it said it was reviewing
summary judgment, the single decision it cited was the
Eighth Circuit's decision in Goff v. Bise. Now, in that
-- in that decision, the Eighth Circuit said, yes, we
can review this after trial even though it was summary
judgment, because it's qualified immunity, but the
Eighth Circuit actually ignored the trial evidence. It
actually did this seemingly illogical step of just
looking at the summary judgment evidence as-is.
Now, I think what that shows is the Sixth
Circuit was definitely reviewing summary judgment, but
it, implicitly at least, recognized that would be
entirely illogical. So it tied its decision to the only
decision by the district court on qualified immunity,
summary judgment, and said: We've got to look at what
really happened in this case. And so they looked ahead.
Now, the reason the question is adequately
presented is because I think the Sixth Circuit's
decision shows this entire debate about Unitherm and
whether this was a quasi-50(a) review is the -- one of
the precise reasons the Sixth Circuit hinged its
decision on summary judgment.
I think it was quite aware that an appellate
court, since at least 1947, in Cone, cannot review the
sufficiency of the evidence at trial and overturn the
jury's verdict. And so the Sixth Circuit said: Wait a
second; we can look to the summary judgment record.
Now -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the rule that you
want us to adopt to answer the question presented? You
asked us to take cert on a question presented. What's
the answer you want us to give on the question
presented?
MR. MILLS: Yes. The answer is that a party
may not appeal the denial of summary judgment after
trial.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In no circumstances?
MR. MILLS: I would say that the clearest
rule is to say in no circumstances. That's the position
of the Fourth Circuit. You say, if you want to
challenge a judgment, simply make your motion.
But I would add that whichever way this
Court goes, the decision here has to be reversed,
because there's no doubt that the legal issue of
qualified immunity at summary judgment depended entirely
on the officers' conduct at trial.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your rule, in
response to Justice Sotomayor, would basically require
anyone who has an assertion of qualified immunity to
take their collateral appeal or interlocutory appeal.
MR. MILLS: It would only require it, Your
Honor, to the extent that they wish to challenge that
decision on the summary judgment record. I'm not at all
suggesting that that appeal is required to preserve the
issue of immunity. It's easily preserved, but to the
extent a trial occurs on the officers' conduct -- and
the officers want to say, wait a second, we're still
immune -- that evidence even at trial is insufficient
for liability. You've got the right to preserve your
immunity issue, but you have to have the district court
consider the question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So they are put to a
choice whether or not their qualified immunity claim
rests entirely on law or might turn out, as you say it
did in your case, to have some factual aspect?
MR. MILLS: That's right. And they -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's kind of
a tough choice to put them to, isn't it?
MR. MILLS: Well, they have an absolute
right to take that immediate appeal, and -- and they
chose not to.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So they have to take
the immediate appeal, and when they do so, they lose the
right to appeal at the end?
MR. MILLS: No, they do not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why is that?
MR. MILLS: They do not because if they lose
the appeal and they go to trial, you've got a new case.
You've got -- I shouldn't say a new case. You've got
new evidence of conduct. And so there's no loss of the
issue of immunity. It's just that it turns on the facts
from the trial.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You've assumed -- you've
assumed all the evidence in their favor at the summary
judgment stage.
MR. MILLS: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you really think that
this is a realistic scenario where there's going to be
even more evidence against them than -- I mean, you're
assuming the evidence against them. There's going to be
even more evidence against them than they assumed at the
summary judgment? That's not going to happen very
often.
MR. MILLS: It happened here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. MILLS: Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
analysis 41:25 argue 23:2 aware 35:1 36:10,11 body 6:6
14:19 18:20 answer 9:16 11:3 2:8 3:3,6 7:13 9:5 a.m 1:13 3:2 56:10 bother 46:13
24:4 38:9 46:9,11 12:2,3 13:19 14:5 bottom 27:6,8 50:9
53:16,18,20 14:6 16:2,8,9 B bread-and-butter
37:24 42:11,14 background 12:16 28:18 29:1,5,7,16
18:19,23 arguments 35:4,7 bad 45:12 46:2,3 42:18 43:21 44:4
26:25 27:4,5 43:18 50:16 bare 6:15 44:12 48:11 49:6
30:13 33:15 articulate 36:22 barred 5:19 49:10
42:13 asked 26:24 45:13 base 32:22 Breyer's 24:24
46:2 53:17 based 3:18,19,24 brief 5:8 11:17 27:5
48:6 51:1,6
50:2,10 asking 24:21,21 7:4 16:4 17:15 36:13
53:3
54:11,11,15 41:19 21:25 26:10 27:1 briefs 46:6
aspect 55:1 27:18 37:16 39:17 Bright 6:18 10:13
30:9 50:14 10:14,15 20:18,20 basic 23:12 24:5,8 38:18 47:15
11:1 12:3 assertion 54:10 basis 14:19 32:1,4,5 brought 6:1 47:7
15:2 assess 25:6 51:15 32:7 35:20 44:15 built 9:18 10:7
18:15 19:1 assessment 26:19 48:17,25 49:12 business 48:9
45:21 40:25 begins 26:7 buy 31:1
15:22 53:2
25:17 2:10 3:7 25:24 C
16:2
51:1,18 53:9 25:13 33:5 34:18 belief 8:15 25:23
25:8 39:16
46:9 47:7
50:10 assumes 19:14 belt-and-suspend... 18:24 41:13
32:11 36:2,22 benefit 16:24 19:18 case 3:4,14,25 6:9
13:10 35:13
39:18
18:2,11 56:6,8 38:17 40:4,18 48:9 18:4,7,7,8 19:12 11:25 12:3,4,8,14
19:7,8,10 choice 26:22 27:23 Clark 42:17 20:1 25:2 32:17 13:3,4,6,8,8,17
21:25 54:24 55:4 classic 25:16 28:23 33:4 35:24 36:2 14:22 15:1,2,3,10
26:6 chose 55:7 clause 4:12 12:17 40:20 41:18,20 15:11,16,23 16:3
29:8 30:1 chosen 27:1 35:12 42:1 54:7,17 55:16 16:17,17,17,23
32:11 circuit 4:25 6:25 7:2 clear 9:1 12:8 26:23 Cone 10:22 53:10 17:7,8,12 19:1,5
34:10 36:6 7:20,24 9:14,17 27:23 35:3,9 40:15 confinement 37:5 19:10 26:1 31:5,23
37:15 11:12,15,19 13:24 50:20,23 51:24 37:11 38:6,8,14 32:3,25 33:10 34:7
40:6 41:10,14 13:25 14:2,6,11,12 clearer 27:25 31:6 39:4,6,8 37:10 38:4,11,17
43:3 15:9,18,21 21:9 clearest 53:24 conflicts 8:24 39:1,15,25 41:13
48:1,11,12 23:11 26:5,17,20 clearinghouse 45:10 confusion 4:25 41:21 45:21 46:12
50:15,19,21 27:4,8,10,21 28:13 clearly 4:7 16:15,23 consequences 6:13 47:9,11,21 50:22
53:2 55:1,14 32:10 36:13 37:14 18:9 19:3,3 24:19 consider 9:6 11:2,13 50:25,25 51:8,17
56:8,10 38:3,24 39:2 42:1 25:5,12 27:5 32:14 13:17 17:9 18:16 52:25 53:10 54:4
14:21 49:15 50:5,6,8,18 50:10 consideration 12:2 courts 5:4 26:8
30:2 52:4,15,18,22 53:7 Cleveland 1:15 considerations 27:15 30:19,19
36:11 42:19 53:12 54:1 client 29:9,12 39:18,19 43:16 47:3,4 51:15
47:9 circuits 4:24 42:16 close 31:19 consistent 18:14 court's 8:25 10:22
26:21 27:24 39:11 collateral 16:11 14:24 18:5,9 24:19 42:16 45:22
cited 11:16 52:13 compelling 17:4 13:1 37:13 41:14 6:17 15:5 20:1,18
45:6,16 28:6 33:2,2,5 components 24:17 correctness 36:3 crucially 6:20
40:10 41:17 42:14 conceded 10:13 35:11 52:6 56:6 custody 38:22
18:10 19:6 51:9 54:24 concerns 13:10 40:2 16:10 36:7 D
22:3 claiming 11:6 concession 3:17 course 4:3 16:11 D 3:1
30:7 claims 3:18,19 8:18 conclude 15:24 50:25 DAVID 1:15 2:3,9
40:14 43:1 12:6 17:20 19:15 conditions 38:7 39:5 court 1:1,12 3:9,23 3:6 52:8
51:23 52:2,6 24:10,12 30:4,6,6 conduct 3:25 4:2 5:12,23 7:12 9:1,4 day 24:25
55:3,8,12 30:14 36:14,14,25 13:7 14:23 16:18 9:4 10:20,24,25 days 49:25
8:7 14:3 difficulty 30:12,25 D.C 1:8 5:22 6:6 7:2,4,22 fact 6:4,4 11:8 22:6
52:13 31:12 9:2 10:25 13:7 22:11,18,19 24:3,3
direction 44:19 E 14:15,16 15:2,12 24:5,11,11,13
54:4,14 disagree 17:17 49:2 E 1:15 2:1,3,9 3:1,1 17:14,15 20:2 25:12 31:20 34:14
disagreement 16:21 earlier 20:15 45:13 28:5 29:11,22 31:7 44:3 45:25 46:25
16:25 18:25 47:13,19,25 48:2 easily 54:16 35:18 42:23 43:15 facts 4:4,5 10:3,5,11
dismiss 50:21 52:15,18 52:18,20 53:11 16:19,22 17:4,14
dismissed 38:17 36:15 56:1,2 18:17,25 21:12,12
23:23 26:8 disputes 22:5 19:11 exact 11:17 34:7,8 35:5,6 36:4
27:16,18 disputing 11:12 Enterprises 36:12 exactly 7:19 8:12 36:23 40:18 48:24
dissent 40:2 entire 8:24 10:2 16:20 23:16 48:25 49:7,11
30:24 distinguish 12:14 entitled 7:3 8:8 45:17 46:8 30:15 34:15 46:23
38:11,17 45:18,22 essentially 8:23 47:19,24 fairness 39:20
29:25 52:25 54:21 16:15,23 18:9 19:3 explain 14:11 34:22 favor 55:20
divides 30:3 19:3 24:19 25:5,12 explained 15:1 19:5 feel 15:4 17:8,13,14
22:4 29:21 document 38:11 41:2,9 explanation 35:11 Fifth 14:11
35:3,20 doing 7:22 10:18 estoppel 43:9,19 expressly 15:18 figure 30:19
41:19,24 27:25 28:15 43:7 ET 1:6 extent 3:23 9:22 filed 5:16 7:15
51:2 36:6 38:12,20 39:7 Harlow 33:6,23 34:5 immediately 6:14 instruction 33:11,17
Ginsburg's 42:22 head 46:17 immune 54:19 38:10
15:3,5 16:10 47:18 held 37:14 38:24 23:19 25:3 26:11 intent 42:4
20:17 31:2 go 10:2 19:24 23:17 helps 10:17 27:18,22 28:7 interlocutory 54:11
37:18,19 29:10 35:10,14 highlights 7:23 9:13 29:23 30:3,3,6,14 interrupt 3:16
20:4,5 28:5 29:9 holding 36:7 38:4 implied 4:19 involves 22:18,20
grows 20:2 hypothetical 18:1 indicates 51:12 24:15
guess 24:1 41:19 42:1
happen 56:3 ill 38:14 42:10 joint 35:2
14:10 23:16 41:8 53:2 28:10 52:19,24 insisted 47:3 40:16
20:16,25 Justice 3:3,8,15 4:3 33:9 40:23 41:5,11 19:12 23:15 24:14
36:25 4:11,12,20 5:20 51:5,10,24 24:16,18 28:16,19 M
51:12 11:24 12:11,25 55:3 36:14,14 40:4,9,21 map 31:6,10
5:2,3,5 19:20 20:4,11,13 21:18,23 25:19 36:20 44:15 37:4,11 38:4 39:12
6:3,10,15 7:1 20:24 21:10,18,19 36:6 43:8 44:4,25 let's 5:16 23:18 39:21 42:6 43:17
21:23 22:3,14,25 45:22 36:24 47:15 44:17,22,23 46:3
8:1,5,7,9,22 23:7,18,21,23 24:9 knowing 18:17 liability 3:14 28:21 49:1 56:11
10:2,12,16 24:14,20,24 25:8 knowledge 20:15 54:20 matters 24:10 30:9
14:1,3,14 25:21,25 26:7,13 21:17 22:11 38:19 liable 29:13 45:5
16:3 26:16,24 27:7,13 42:21 limitations 5:9,14 mean 9:9 10:6 12:11
18:8 27:15 28:2,9,18 knows 31:18 5:16,19 43:18 17:20,24 19:4 23:1
19:11 29:1,5,7,16,18,20 line 3:13 8:24 14:21 28:22 29:7 44:11
21:8,11,13,15 30:7 31:9,10,17,20 L 14:24 18:5,9 19:4 46:9 47:23 49:6
22:16,18 32:19 33:8,9,19,25 lack 11:22,23 12:1 24:24 25:6 30:2 55:25
26:5,9 34:21,22 35:8,9 lacked 9:5 11:6 31:7,7,9 33:6 means 23:13 28:3
27:3,16 36:6,21 37:18,21 lacks 9:1 13:4,4 36:22 47:9 43:9
28:4,11 37:24 38:9,12,20 language 50:9 52:12 list 21:11 meant 21:5 22:6
32:6 33:1 39:7,16 40:1,7,9 large 39:9 listed 27:4 27:21
36:15 38:18 40:14,22,23 41:5,6 largely 6:7,8 litany 12:18 medical 38:16
43:17 46:13 41:11,15,16 42:18 larger 6:2 litigated 43:10 merits 3:12 26:9
42:22 43:21 44:4,9 late 5:17 50:2 little 4:17 28:9 27:17 39:14 50:22
51:2 52:13 44:12,13,21 45:12 law 3:19 4:8,10,22 location 21:6 mess 31:11
53:1,8 45:13,13,19 46:9 5:7 7:4,10,11,15 long 46:8 Michelle 1:3 5:16
54:2,6,14 46:21 47:6,7 48:11 8:9 13:18 16:5 look 5:13 7:25 14:2 middle 30:16
56:3 49:6,10,19 50:3 18:25 22:19,21 14:4,12,15,16 28:5 Mills 1:15 2:3,9 3:5
12:12 55:19,23 56:6,8 39:12,22 41:3,12 53:2 11:11 12:5,25
Justice's 43:1 43:6,11,17 44:17 looking 10:19 15:22 13:12,15,22 14:17
11:5,9,10 K 46:3,11,24,25 52:20 17:24 18:20 19:9
34:5,6 35:19 KAGAN 9:15,25 lawyer 23:25 29:8 lose 55:9,13 20:12,14 21:3,16
38:10 40:5 17:11 24:9,14,20 31:18 43:22 46:16 loser 11:18 12:18 21:22 22:2,9,23
26:24 40:22 41:16 leading 8:25 loss 55:16 23:6,9,20,22 24:7
48:3,5,6,8,9 49:19 50:3 learns 35:14 lost 24:1,2,4 24:9,12,16,25
Kennedy 4:3,11 legal 3:13 16:7,14 lot 30:18,25 44:5 25:15 52:7,8,10
54:12 21:21 22:15,17 November 1:9 Ortiz 1:3 3:4 5:16 Petitioner 1:4,16 2:4
23:24,25 26:9,25 number 5:4,8 10:9 10:14 20:15 21:1 2:10 3:7 52:9
27:3,16 28:23 29:4 21:16 22:10 31:4 Petitioner's 35:11
41:22 43:18,23 objective 33:6,22 Ortiz's 26:3 31:16 pieces 16:10
48:15,22,23,24 objectively 42:7 ought 43:6,7 placing 38:5
36:17 45:5,9 46:5 occurs 54:17 40:19 47:17,20
25:9,13 motivated 8:15 officers 18:21 25:2 P 3:1 please 3:9 26:1
40:8,10 46:25 move 22:15 31:21 54:7,17,18 page 2:2 11:17 point 5:7,21 6:16
33:1 34:15 39:22 officials 3:25 20:19 27:6,8 46:1 8:20 9:7,8,10,12
26:12 muddy 10:10 46:7 pages 35:2 46:8 13:2,23 14:9,19,21
27:2 multiple 47:4 okay 8:6 15:21,21 Paper 10:23 16:13,24 18:5
28:8,12 29:10,13,18 42:18 paragraph 10:1 19:23 21:14,24
29:2,6,15,17 N 43:21 52:2 part 17:20,21 37:7 28:24 34:3 46:16
31:2,14 N 2:1,1 3:1 once 32:25 51:2,7 participate 38:18 46:21 49:24
33:16,21 name 34:13 opening 26:13 27:14 particular 12:8 pointless 17:2,6
35:1,23 36:10 nature 36:1 50:18 32:17 33:3,4 35:24 46:10
38:2 necessarily 23:7 opinion 7:1 9:17 40:20 41:20 points 7:18
39:10,16 need 7:18 18:12,13 10:3 27:11,25 particularly 10:20 policeman 43:10
40:12,22 30:25 32:20 51:12 45:22 48:15 49:3 parties 45:17 47:5 policy 6:19
needed 29:3 opportunity 15:6 Partly 29:2 posit 50:23
44:2,8,20 needs 3:24 39:21 47:13 party 44:14,16,24 posited 42:12 49:16
46:4,19 negligence 41:21 opposed 11:10 53:20 position 32:23 37:25
48:1 49:2,8 neither 22:20,20 opposing 21:11 passed 32:25 51:2,7 38:2 50:3 53:25
50:1,7 never 7:11,12,15 opposition 21:14 51:9,17 posits 40:19
52:1,3 10:20 20:4,5 29:9 22:7 PAULA 1:6 possibly 11:1
10:2 11:5,9 notes 41:3 50:2,5,13,14 petition 27:7,10 practical 47:9,10
13:19,20 notice 27:4 orders 27:3 50:24 50:9,18 precise 53:7
17:1,6 21:20 notoriously 25:9 ordinary 38:7 petitioned 39:1,13 preclude 21:12
12:2 20:21 proposed 40:9 13:8,14 14:1,22,23realistic 55:24 renew 22:15 23:25
39:14 50:14 proved 5:25 28:20 25:4,9,14 26:3 reason 12:17 13:3 22:19,22 45:25
53:4,16 proven 32:17 35:25 31:3 32:6,16,16 31:22 34:24 35:1 repeat 12:19
36:1 42:4 34:6,9,12,16,19 35:15 47:10,10 repeatedly 15:1
42:14 54:15 Pulp 10:23 39:3,3,12,14 41:8 44:16,23 reported 6:14 20:17
punitive 38:21 41:18 43:6,8,11 reasonableness 20:25
32:24 33:14 pure 22:21 24:3,5 46:25 47:5,25 48:4reasoning 32:10 request 27:1 33:23
42:11 25:4 41:11 43:6,11 50:14 53:3,16,17 reasons 53:7 38:10
54:16 46:11,24 53:18 54:22 REBUTTAL 2:8 requested 33:11,16
19:12 24:14,16,18 8:18 16:14 17:16 recognized 52:23 33:12 36:16,20
purposes 34:8,18 quoted 27:15 10:7,21 14:12,13 reserve 25:20
raise 16:25 43:17 51:11 53:13 54:14 48:8
38:6 28:6 29:23 30:3,3 rationale 17:15 regardless 9:4 14:9 2:7 5:7,18 6:11,16
12:6,15 34:18,19 40:4,17 reached 50:23 related 23:4 47:10 19:25 25:24
question 5:23 7:7,8 reads 44:13 remanding 8:22 result 10:7
8:24 10:21 11:5 25:2 43:2 53:13 52:21 53:4,7,12 sufficiency 9:2
10:18,25 31:6,13,14 32:22 segregated 37:11 solitary 37:5 sufficiency-based
13:5,14,16 35:10,17,17 42:23 38:5 39:4,8 somebody 23:8 30:5
15:15,19,24 43:1,4 45:2,3,4,4,9segregation 21:2,4 sorry 3:15 36:12 sufficient 3:13 4:22
26:8 27:16 45:24 46:2,5,7,10 send 15:10 sort 9:5 16:12 30:10 15:12 32:1,4,7
48:24 46:20 50:23 51:18 sense 23:3 31:11 46:22,24 33:3 35:18 42:24
51:1 52:16 51:20 53:15,25 sentence 26:22 sorts 24:22 42:25 44:15
54:8 27:14 Sotomayor 11:3,24 suggest 10:1 13:25
13:6 15:2 ruling 10:1 13:8 sets 26:14 45:19 53:15,23 summary 3:10 4:16
28:10,13 14:22 19:21,24 settled 51:18 54:9 4:18,21 5:2,3,5,22
49:17,21 25:10 Seventh 12:16,23 Southern 45:18 46:7 6:3,10,15 7:1,21
52:12,22 run 49:25 13:9 35:13 36:12 speaking 35:12 7:24 8:1,5,7,22
35:12 12:15 sexual 6:14 split 4:24 14:1,3,13 15:15,19
9:11 13:2 S show 29:12,22 49:14 squarely 39:25 18:16,21 19:17
16:15,22 S 2:1 3:1 shown 35:7 stage 6:10 14:14 20:7 21:8,11,12,15
19:16,19,22 Sandin 37:4,12 38:5 shows 52:21 53:5 20:7 26:14 31:13 21:20,20 22:16,17
22:2 38:13 39:3,11 side 22:5 24:23 35:4 55:21 23:14,17,24 26:5,9
25:11 30:8 saw 15:4,5 significant 39:4 stand 46:17 26:10,25 27:3,16
38:3 40:10 saying 8:8 11:6 simple 18:4 standard 33:22 27:17,22 28:4,10
54:20 55:2,6 14:10 16:25 19:7,9 simply 8:21 44:23 started 13:13 48:13 28:13 33:1 35:21
22:5 25:2 28:13 47:7 54:2 state 22:24 38:17 46:13 49:11
19:6 21:10 36:13 43:3 11:12 13:24,25 stems 12:23 support 28:21
22:3 25:21 SCALIA 9:8 19:13 14:2,6,12 15:9,18 step 52:19 suppose 4:5 5:16 8:3
51:23 52:2,6 19:17,20 20:4,11 21:8 26:4,17,20,21 steps 21:4 17:17,18 33:9 41:7
55:3,8,12 20:13 31:9,17 44:9 27:4,8,10,20,24 Stevens's 40:2 43:21 49:19,20
44:13,21 46:21 28:13 32:10 36:13 student 35:14 Supreme 1:1,12
55:23 trying 23:2 37:21 verdict-winner we've 8:13 29:11
18:22 30:11 47:22 49:21,23 types 35:3 40:17 violate 37:5 witnesses 15:4
47:15 49:11 three 22:4 46:18 typically 5:6 18:23 violated 6:19 20:16 word 12:9,21 26:22
53:17 tied 52:24 violation 32:13 35:7 27:23
55:6,8 time 4:13 25:20 U 37:12 38:6 words 18:16 27:1
17:13 20:3 tough 55:4 18:10 19:11 25:1,7 W 39:7 45:23
transcript 20:19,23 30:22 wait 5:4 11:18 53:12 wrong 21:9 27:15
56:6,7 5:24 6:1,2,17 7:3,5 10:24 11:20 13:2,3 wants 29:11
9:18 10:7
52:11 39:17,24 45:7 Washington 1:8 years 5:17
15:7
16:12
38:13 43:3 17:9 18:8,14,18,19 unnecessary 32:21 12:3 34:4 36:20
1:5 3:4
9:11,12,13 20:19 21:8,25 use 12:9 49:15
11:17 13:1 23:13,14,16,24 uses 43:22 way 15:14 18:7,8 1
15:13,14 26:9 27:11,17 28:1 utterly 16:20 17:1,5 22:24 40:23 44:13 1 1:9
17:25 19:22 28:5,6 29:10,11 45:16 50:25 54:3 10 11:17
23:9,10 24:2 V ways 45:8
34:12,14 10:03 1:13 3:2
26:2,21 v 1:5 3:4 10:23 weighed 10:20
39:23 42:5 11:04 56:10
28:3 11:16 18:24 32:15 well-equipped 51:15 1947 10:23 53:10
47:14,20
30:23 31:2,6 40:16 41:23 42:17 went 15:3 16:21
51:11 52:16
34:10 35:3 52:18 53:11,22 52:14 31:25 49:6 2
37:3 54:7,17,19 55:14 verdict 11:18 12:18 West 10:23 2a 27:11
40:3,12,14 55:18 12:20 27:6,9 35:22 We'll 3:3 2(a) 26:8
43:14 45:2 troubles 6:25 39:22 44:18 50:11 we're 5:2,6 15:22 20 5:17 46:8
50:20 51:15 true 25:11,13 36:2 53:12 20:2 33:18 42:24 2010 1:9
52:21 53:4,9 40:19 50:12 verdict's 25:18 46:14 48:7,8 54:18 242 20:19
2:7
2:4 52:7
49:25
13:1,2 35:2 43:10
35:2
11:5 25:16,17
35:10,18
8:24 12:14,19
32:21,22
35:4,10
36:7,8,15
42:24 43:4,7
44:10
12:18
7:15 8:10,15
10:21 12:2,15
16:7 17:1,6
30:18 31:5,8
33:12 34:15
35:10,14,16
36:8,16,16
42:10,11
43:25 45:4,5
46:5
47:7 50:16
2:10
35:17
27:8 50:9
38:11
