IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
KEVIN KASTEN, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-834
SAINT-GOBAIN PERFORMANCE PLASTICS :
CORPORATION :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, October 13, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JAMES H. KASTER, ESQ., Minneapolis, Minnesota; on behalf
of Petitioner.
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioner.
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JAMES H. KASTER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States,
As amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner 16
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JAMES H. KASTER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 09-834, Kasten v. Saint-Gobain
Performance Plastics Corporation.
Mr. Kaster.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES H. KASTER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KASTER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
When Kevin Kasten told his employer that the
location of the time clocks was illegal and that if they
were taken to the court they would lose, he filed any
complaint within the meaning of the 215(a)(3) under the
Fair Labor Standards Act, because filing includes an
oral communication, because "any" means any, which
includes formal or informal, written or unwritten
communications. And the words in the statute were
designed to have a broad construction under section 2 of
the statute 202 and under Mitchell v. DeMario and the
Tennessee Coal case.
I would like to begin with the Tennessee
Coal case, Tennessee Coal v. Muscoda. The Court
interpreted "work" in a broad fashion to include the
time in a mine when workers were moving from one place
to another, not actually engaged in physical labor.
In interpreting work that way, the Court
said that the act is not to be interpreted in a narrow,
grudging fashion.
JUSTICE ALITO: Let me give you this
example. Suppose a company has an established policy
that if you want to make a complaint, there's a
particular supervisor you should go to. And let's say
they say you can make this complaint in writing, you can
make it orally.
Now, there's -- something's going on in the
workplace and the supervisor happens to be walking by,
maybe a machine is broken, an employee has been hurt,
and an employee walks up to the supervisor who is
walking briskly by, taps the supervisor on the shoulder
and says the company is violating the Fair Labor
Standards Act because of the placement of a clock. You
said that filing has no formality requirement. Would
that be the filing of a complaint?
MR. KASTER: I think it would, Your Honor.
I don't think that the fact that the employer has a
policy that says you do it on Tuesday morning would
control what the statute says one way or the other, so I
think it would constitute a filing.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you mean that if the
Government says you've got to file a complaint with us
by either calling us or submitting something in writing,
and at a cocktail party a worker goes up to a Government
employee in that agency, and says, you know, my company
is violating the law. That that's enough?
MR. KASTER: I don't -- you know, I don't
believe that that's -- in the context of a non-work
environment, Your Honor, I would note that, I don't know
exactly the answer to the Court's question, to be
honest.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The reason I'm asking
that question is related to Justice Alito's question,
which is, what does filing a complaint mean? Does it
have to be relative to the procedures adopted by the
person that you are reporting this to?
MR. KASTER: Filing means directing it to
somebody who can do something about it. And it doesn't
necessarily have to be.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, at a cocktail
party that employee may be there on personal time, but
when he goes back to work the next morning he could do
something. Is that enough?
MR. KASTER: Well, it may be. If it's
directed towards the responsible party, then it would be
filing a complaint. So it could occur outside of
work -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what you are doing is
he is estopping the Government from saying, the only way
that you can file a complaint with us is to do it in
writing. We are now forcing the Government to adopt an
oral procedure even if it chose not to? Even if it
thought an oral procedure would create havoc, et cetera,
et cetera?
MR. KASTER: If the person is directing the
complaint to the Government and communicates that to the
responsible party who can do something about it, I think
that they are filing a complaint, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: It's one thing to say that
filing doesn't necessarily mean that something is
written, although that's usually what the word means,
isn't it?
MR. KASTER: It can often mean a written
communication.
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you filing your comments
right now?
MR. KASTER: I think I am, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: You are? Really?
MR. KASTER: I am directing them to the
Court.
JUSTICE ALITO: That's the ordinary usage of
the word. But to say that it includes no degree of
formality, that's your argument?
MR. KASTER: Well, Your Honor, I would say
there are no formal requirements for the filing.
JUSTICE ALITO: If that's the law and the
employee gets fired and the employee says, well, this
was done in retaliation for my having filed an FSLA
complaint three weeks ago, and the employer says what
complaint? We have no record of any such complaint and
the employee says, oh, yes, I said it orally to a
supervisor who was passing by and my buddy Joe was there
and he's going to corroborate this. So now we have a
trial about whether a complaint was filed?
MR. KASTER: You might have a trial, Your
Honor, depending on the circumstances. There might be
one. The thing is that that's no different from any
other retaliation case. They are trying to establish an
exception to the rule that retaliation occurs in verbal
forms. The communication, the underlying protective
conduct occurs in verbal forms all the time. They are
trying to establish the exception here. And I would
note that even under the National Labor Relations Act in
Scrivener, filing charges includes the verbal
communications that are antecedents, the predicates to
filing a charge.
JUSTICE ALITO: With whom?
MR. KASTER: With the responsible party who
can do something about it. I would note also, Your
Honor -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well -
MR. KASTER: -- that Kevin Kasten doesn't
have an office. In terms of the formality of
communication, there is discussion about the fact that
this occurred in a hallway outside of the place where
they walked in and out of the factory. He doesn't have
an office. That's where he communicates with people.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why do you feel the need to
go beyond, say, what the AFL-CIO identifies as a normal
oral failing -- filing? They use language like, at the
initial stage of the grievance procedure, there is
confrontation with an eye to fact finding, and the
dispute is joined when the employee or the steward or
supervisor come face-to-face to identify, to discuss,
and hopefully to resolve a problem.
Now that's a formal kind of relationship.
It doesn't involve a cocktail party, and yet it is done
orally. And there is a tradition as to how that works.
But from you've said, I gather that you want to go well
beyond that and provide that cocktail parties -- perhaps
not cocktail parties, but just a tap on the shoulder
would be sufficient, where I take it that would normally
be sufficient in the grievance process.
MR. KASTER: The grievance process, Your
Honor, a grievance process is a formal process, and so I
wouldn't compare the average workplace -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Suppose I think
that that provides a good precedent for -- for oral
filings. What happens then? What am I supposed to do
in your case?
MR. KASTER: Your Honor, in the general
proposition we would be accepting of the Scrivener rule
that the Court adopted in the '70s, that is that the
filing of a charge includes those things that happened
orally prior to and around the time of the filing of the
charge. That's what this is about.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, we are talking about a
filing. In the grievance process -- I don't want to
repeat it, but it seems to me form having read the brief
that filing takes place without writing, provided that
there are these other safeguards which are described.
Now, I want to know in your opinion, is
there a reason for not importing that into this system?
I take it you win the case -- or maybe you lose it, I
don't know how it works on the fact. I don't know what
the filing was.
MR. KASTER: In terms of the formality of
requirements, the Court may adopt formal requirements.
The employer certainly did, Mr. Kasten followed those.
What I am looking at are the words of the statute that
cover normally -
JUSTICE BREYER: There is a word "filing" in
the AFL-CIO statute as well. So I am looking for a way
of interpreting the one in light of the other. Do you
favor that? Are you against that? If so, why or why
not?
MR. KASTER: In terms of the procedure that
they adopt, Your Honor, that may be an acceptable
procedure. The thing that I am looking at is the
statutory language in the case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And there wasn't -- he
didn't invoke the grievance procedure.
MR. KASTEN: He didn't -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In this case, he didn't
invoke the grievance procedure.
MR. KASTER: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So that would keep you
out, if that were the test, that you have to formally
invoke the grievance procedure. But we are told that
every other time the word "file" is used in this Act,
Fair Labor Standards Act, it refers to a writing. And
so you are urging a meaning that deviates from the
standard meaning of the term in the very Act at issue.
MR. KASTER: I don't think I am doing that,
Your Honor, with all due respect.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there another
provision where the word file is used to mean something
other than a writing.
MR. KASTER: It means, according to the
first enforcement action back in 1961, it means submit
or lodge, Your Honor. I would note that the defendant's
own policies use it to describe a verbal communication
by protecting against retaliation for somebody who has
filed a complaint for sexual harassment. They have used
it in a manner that -- as an example to obviously
include both verbal and written communications.
I would note there was a procedure in place
here, Your Honor, that was the policy manual. This -
there was no grievance procedure for Mr. Kasten. He did
not have a -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- that's the
problem. I mean, you can talk about a grievance
procedure. I suppose there's always one in -- in
companies that -- that are unionized, but an awful lot
of companies aren't.
Your -- the -- the Respondent is -- is going
to argue that this statute doesn't apply to private
filings of complaints anyway, that it relates only to
the filing of a complaint with the government. And
that -- that's a new -- a new point in this case, and
normally I would not be disposed to consider it.
My problem is, I cannot decide on -- on the
question of whether filing means filing only in writing
or also includes verbal filing, without resolving that
other question. That is to say, if indeed the complaint
has to be quote, "filed" with the government, I'm
inclined to think that an oral complaint pursuant to
procedures established by the agency which permit an
oral complaint, even a complaint by telephone that would
be okay.
But my goodness, if it applies to private
employers as well including employers that have no
grievance procedures, including employers who have
employees who go to cocktail parties, I am -- I am very
disinclined to think that it -- that it could mean an
oral complaint in -- in that context.
MR. KASTER: Your Honor, I'm just looking at
the statutory language -- file "any complaint." It's
important -- the word "any" has a particular meaning. I
would not that if -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What does file -- what
is the meaning of "filed"?
MR. KASTER: It means to submit or lodge,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you are filing your
argument right now. Now come on, people don't talk like
that.
MR. KASTEN: I think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that -- that is
absurd. You are not filing an argument right now.
Nobody uses the language that way.
MR. KASTER: If I submit or lodge, that is
the -- and it's directed at a particular -- I have to be
asserting a statutory right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'd like to go
back to the question -
MR. KASTEN: I am not asserting -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I would like to go back to
the question Justice Scalia filed just earlier.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what would you say
about his point that it seems to me had substantial
merit? It - it's really our determination -- our
interpretation of what filing means might well depend on
whether filing in -- or a complaint includes
intracompany complaints, the grumbling of an employee
and so forth; and I recognize this -- this argument
comes up late. Has it been addressed in any of the
other circuits?
MR. KASTER: Yes, Your Honor. There has
been -- a number of the circuits have interpreted this
statute and included -- the Ninth Circuit, the First
Circuit, the Tenth Circuit have all -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All have said that
intracompany complaints -
MR. KASTER: Intracompany complaints; that
is true as well in the Sixth Circuit. And it's easier
to talk about the cases where that hasn't been true -
in Memphis Barbecue, the Fourth Circuit; in Genesee
Hospital, the Second Circuit. Memphis --the Memphis
Barbecue case really addresses the testimonial clause.
Genesee Hospital is the only case in the
Second Circuit where they have held that all complaints
need to go to the Department of Labor. The one thing I
would say about that particular argument, Your Honor.
Is it makes superfluous instituted proceeding. It makes
superfluous instituted proceeding which -- or cause to
be instituted.
If you file a complaint -- it - then -- with
the Department of Labor, their argument is, and I think
it's true, that you institute a proceeding. So the
statute would be redundant, and "file any complaint"
would cover a null set.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure that's true.
You -- you can complain orally to somebody at the Labor
Department who decides that the complaint isn't serious
enough to -- to warrant commencing a proceeding. I
mean, if you go in and insist, I -- you know, I want to
begin a proceeding, that's -- that's something else.
But you can file a complaint orally without -- without
doing that, it seems to me.
MR. KASTER: Well, Your Honor, if you have
made the phone call and started the process I think you
have instituted a proceeding. Now whether it gets -- at
what stage of formality it gets to, I'm not sure, Your
Honor, but I think you have begun the process of
instituting a proceeding or causing it to be instituted.
That's one. The other thing I -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not if it's never
instituted. Not if it's never instituted. If no
proceeding is ever instituted, you can hardly be accused
of having caused a proceeding to be instituted.
MR. KASTEN: There's a -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So if you make an informal
complaint and it doesn't go any further, and they ask -
"You know, do you want to" -- "No, I don't want to start
a proceeding, but -- but this company is just, you know,
it's acting improperly, you guys ought to look into
that."
That's -- I'm 00 I'm prepared to say that's
filing a complaint, if you are only talking about filing
complaint with the government. But if you are talking
about oral filings of the complaints with employer, I am
very troubled.
MR. KASTER: Well, Your Honor, I'm going to
reserve the rest of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Wall.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY B. WALL,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS
AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING PETITIONER
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
A number of the Court's questions are
focusing on some of the practical difficulties here.
The Government wants to start by pointing out there are
a number of statutes, 20 or more, that have similar
anti-retaliation provisions. Most of those statutes
cover all the complaints, either because Congress has
said so in administering, agencies have said so or the
courts have said so. And the kind of practical
difficulties that the court is raising have not proven
unworkable under any statutory schemes.
The Respondent can't point to a single other
statute addressing these kinds -- this labor context
that has been narrowed -- excuse me -- to cover only
oral complaints. What we're -
JUSTICE SCALIA: This is one of the oldest,
though, isn't it.
MR. WALL: Yes. I mean, it -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it the very oldest? It
may well be the very oldest. You are talking about a
really old fogey Congress that -- that passed this
thing.
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, it's not the
older. It was model on the NLRA, which is even older.
For instance, the NLRB has found that if, you know,
employees are complaining to each other, that they can't
be discharged under the NLRA's anti-retaliation
provision, or if an employee orally says to his
employer, I'm about to go to the Board and tell them you
are doing something unlawful, the Board has said you
can't be discharged.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what is the
language in those statutes? All those statutes use the
language "file a complaint"?
MR. WALL: The language in the NLRA is "file
charges" or "give testimony." So, instead of filing a
complaint, it says "file charges." But the language in
many of these statutes, and they are cited in all of the
briefs, is extremely similar. They refer to filing
complaints or charges, instituting proceedings. As you
pointed -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you -- you -- are you
urging that if you just tell a coworker, that that's
enough? I thought the whole idea is to give the
employer notice that something is amiss. So, how would
telling a coworker serve that purpose?
MR. WALL: It wouldn't under this particular
statute, Justice Ginsburg. I didn't mean to imply under
the FLSA. The FLSA anti-retaliation provision does not
have an opposing any practice clause in the way that
some civil rights statutes do like Title VII. So, it
does require submission of a complaint to an employer,
but that could take many forms.
And as you pointed out, Justice Scalia, in
this particular context, filing something orally makes
perfect sense. We are not -- we are talking about the
kinds of industries, truck drivers, coal miners and
migrant workers where that's a perfectly normal use of
speech. Oral communication -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Fine. It's a
perfectly normal use of speech, I accept that. But what
is it that would surround this use of speech on a
particular occasion with enough formality that we know
it isn't something that could pass unnoticed and bring
in a whole lot of things like the cocktail party
example, et cetera?
I noticed there was a paragraph in the
AFL-CIO -- that's why I brought it up. Is that the
right standard? What we say here may take effect or
have influence, so -- so I want to say it correctly.
What kinds of oral complaints count as filing a
complaint?
MR. WALL: Justice Breyer, I don't think the
Government has any objection to that standard. Although
I do think -
JUSTICE BREYER: But I would like more than
that. The Government sees these statutes as a whole, so
I would like the Government's assistance on what words
to write to be able to get this right so it will not be
too formal, it will not be too informal, it will do the
job.
MR. WALL: I -- I think the kind of indicia
or formality you are talking about are signs that the
employer has submitted to his employer an assertion of
statutory rights under the FLSA. I think those are the
two things that the lower courts have consistently
looked to. And I think those indicia of formality are a
good sign that the employer has, but they are not the
only sign.
If I walk into the happy hour and I have
actually written down on a form that my employer
promulgates and I hand it off to my supervisor -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, fill in
this blank then, there must be surrounding the oral
complaint sufficient elements of formality such that -
MR. WALL: That the employer has -- the
employee has indicated to his employer, someone in
supervisory authority, that he is asserting statutory
rights under the FLSA.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if he just says
to the employer, "You know, I think we ought to have a
little more time to put on our gear," is that an
assertion of statutory rights under the FLSA?
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, I think that's
a difficult question. I don't think it is presented
here, because this isn't a content case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, I know, but the
idea -- one of the objections to your position is that
it's going to be very hard to figure out in any
particular case what is a filing an oral complaint under
the FLSA, because one, it's got to be reconstructed,
unlike the situation where you had have a government
agency that's doing it, or you have a written complaint;
and second of all, it's -- it's unclear perhaps for the
employer to know that he's being charged with a
violation of the FLSA.
MR. WALL: But that question comes up in
every case, whether the complaint is written or oral to
the Government or an employer. If I write down -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if it's
written -- if it's written, you have got a document that
people can look like -- look at, whether it's the NLRB
or a court, that -- that they can look at and say, yes,
this is a -- an assertion of a violation.
MR. WALL: If I write down on a form
promulgated by my employer I don't like where the time
clocks are or I think the time -
JUSTICE BREYER: But it's on a form. So we
have got that -- that helps a lot. Also an employer
could have a notice. Notice, if you really are upset
because you think there is a violation going here, go to
this microphone which is directly connected to the
complaint department and cite the statute. That would
work, too.
(Laughter. )
JUSTICE BREYER: But -- but there have been
years and years of -- you have just said, of statutes
like this, you say that many of them operate orally.
All right. What kind of thing, if you can help, maybe
you can't -- which is dangerous, but then we just try to
do our best, and we don't have the labor law experience
necessarily, but -- but what is the -- the form of words
that we can use to separate the wheat from the chaff?
MR. WALL: Justice Breyer, I'm sorry if -
if -- if it the formulation I have given you is not
helpful, but in -- in these statutes where either by
expressed language or regulation, so for instance, the
Surface Transportation Assistance Act, and ADA or OSHA,
the -- the language varies from regulation to
regulation. In some of them it says lodge complaints,
and some of them it says make a complaint. But what the
courts have -
JUSTICE BREYER: Let me see if I can look,
because in about 2 minutes you are going to hear, I
suspect and the other side, say see, see, we told you,
that's why you have to have it in writing.
MR. WALL: Again -- and agencies have put
these in writing, so at footnote 6 on page, I think it's
16 of the Government's brief, we have the OSHA
regulations. The STAA regulations appear at page, I
think it's 21 -
JUSTICE ALITO: It would really be helpful
if you could just give us the rule that you think should
apply. Is the rule -- your -- your -- Mr. Kaster's
argument seems to be anything goes, any oral
communication to a supervisor goes.
MR. WALL: I think -
JUSTICE ALITO: Let me go back to the
example I started out with. A worker has been hurt, a
supervisor is going to attend to the hurt worker, and an
employee says, the company is violating the FLSA. And
the supervisor says, don't tell me, and don't tell me
about it now. I'm doing something else. That's enough?
MR. WALL: I think the test, Justice Alito,
is whether the employee has submitted a complaint to his
employer that has put the employer on notice that that
employee is asserting statutory rights under the FLSA,
claiming that he is legally entitled to something he is
not receiving.
If the supervisor walks in the next morning
and says to his boss, yesterday morning while I was
attending to the plant accident, Joe told me that the
time clocks are in the wrong place. He's about to file.
I think we need to fire him, he's a troublemaker. That
employee has stated a claim to the FLSA.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what if he
goes to the boss and says, boss, you ought to do
something, that railing is -- is pretty dangerous over
there.
MR. WALL: Again -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is the boss supposed
to know, well, he is asserting statutory rights under
the FLSA?
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, I think there
probably not. The employee -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That would not be
filing a complaint?
MR. WALL: I mean, I think as a content
case, which it is not, it's unlikely that that is.
Saying that you don't like something or you think it is
unsafe is not actually saying you have are asserting a
right to have it differently. But those are content
cases. And here there is no question the Petitioner
asserted his statutory rights to a number of different
people at the company.
What Respondent is saying is he didn't do it
the right way. If he had done exactly what he did in
exactly the same words, but he had done it some other
way, then it would be covered. So, this is a form case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What did he do? What did
he do specifically? I mean, you are saying that -- that
the employer has to know that he is making a complaint
under the Act. So what -- and you said here are the
facts that was clear that he did.
MR. WALL: If you credit his allegations,
which you have to at this point, because the district
court granted summary judgment on a legal ground, what
Petitioner says he did is he went to his supervisor. He
said the time clocks are in the wrong place. We are not
getting paid for all of our time. And then he went up
the ladder to human resources personnel at the company,
and he said exactly the same thing, and he said I
thinking about challenging you on it in court, and if I
challenge you, you will lose.
Now, whatever the test is, that clearly
meets the bar for asserting statutory rights under the
FLSA. And I think what is important to not is that this
Court has consistently, from the 1940s on, both with
respect to the FLSA and anti-retaliation provisions more
generally in Title VII and other statutes, it has always
given them a broader reading to effectuate their
purposes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Wall, I -- this
is just a factual. Were you saying that the employee
has to know that he is submitting a claim of statutory
violation or the employer?
MR. WALL: I think what the lower courts
have said, and I think this makes sense, is that the
question of whether a reasonable, objective person would
have understood the employee to have submitted a claim
complaint. So if the employee does everything he can to
put the employer on notice, it's not a defense for the
employer to say that subjectively he didn't understand
it to be a complaint.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In those circuits where
they allow intercompany complaints that are oral, can
you give me any sense of how often this leads to claim
for retaliation? I mean, are they in the hundreds or.
MR. WALL: I can't, Justice Kennedy. All I
can tell you is that the vast majority of circuits have
found that intracompany complaints are protected and -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. WALL: Thank you.
Mr. Phillips?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Justice Breyer, I will say to you what you
asked me to say, which is I believe if you get done
listening to my colleagues on the other side, it will be
quite clear that this is an inherently unworkable
standard that they asked us to adopt under these -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why is it inherently
unworkable here in any greater extent that it is
unworkable in all of the other statutes where oral
complaints are permitted? What makes this worse than
these other statutes? What would create more cases in
this area as opposed to some of the other areas? Oral
complaints are explicitly -
MR. PHILLIPS: I don't know that it is
necessarily any worse in this particular context. I do
think what it suggests is that the Congress that looked
at this problem, which as Justice Scalia pointed out was
the 1938 Congress, and what that Congress was saying is
we are taking a very dramatic step. We are moving in
the direction of Federal regulation -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is the -- this was
the Lochner era where they weren't even sure they could
do this. But why should we read their language with a
narrow reading of any complaint?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think you have to
read their language as the way it was written and as the
way they would have understood it at the time, which was
to file any complaint, which as it would have been
understood in '38 and frankly after that, when you file
a complaint that usually entails some notion of
formality and when you put it in the context of a
specific provision where it is not only filing a
complaint, but institute any proceeding, caused any
proceeding to be instituted, justify any proceeding.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What grievance -- would
the bringing of a grievance, the example that
Justice Breyer suggested, an employee goes to his union
and says, they are violating the statute. Let's grieve
it. And according to the proceedings established by the
employer, they meet with the employer, and the employee
does everything in the grievance and they now fire that
employee. Under your reading, that's not instituting a
proceeding?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, because a proceeding is
understood and it's used consistently in the FLSA as an
official action by a government agency. So no, I don't
believe that is instituting a proceeding.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Then we have to address
your second question, not the first. You are saying the
oral wouldn't work in there?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. The oral doesn't work
in that particular context.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would it work if they
instituted a proceeding orally and the proceeding
required itself to start orally?
MR. PHILLIPS: I don't -- the truth is, if
the employer envisions in its mind that it is
instituting a proceeding, that's still not a proceeding
within the meaning of what Congress meant in 1938. It
had in mind an official action by a government agency.
And no private employer is ever going to institute a
proceeding within the meaning of that particular scheme.
You know, it's extremely important in the
context of this particular statute, and the one thing I
should have answered, Justice Sotomayor, to your
question is, what's different about this statute than
any other? This statute carries a criminal penalty with
it. And no other retaliation statute except for one -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there is a protection
built in, Mr. Phillips, it says it's criminal liability
only if it's willful. And on the civil side, the civil
liability under the Fair Labor Standards Act, you
certainly don't have to prove willful, you just prove a
violation.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, but the reality is
that this Court held in the CIT case that the Court
would not construe this statute broadly in order to
expose people to potential criminal liabilities.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wouldn't any retaliatory
action be willful? I mean, to say it's in retaliation
means you are firing this person because of the
complaint.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The question is whether
the violation is willful. The willful qualification in
the criminal context is are you willfully denying your
workers the wages and hours the statute requires?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Nothing to do with
retaliation.
MR. PHILLIPS: No, I -- well, it does have
something to do with retaliation, but, Justice Ginsburg,
it seems to me it's all of a piece, though. Because the
reason why you can be comfortable with a willfulness
standard even which extends to conscious disregard
beyond the intent as well, but the reason why you can be
comfortable with that is if you look at the way the
statute is crafted in terms of the retaliation provision
itself, it speaks specifically to formal actions that
are taken, the filing of a complaint, the institution of
a proceeding.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you know, how common
is it to have criminal prosecutions under this section
of the Fair Labor Standards Act?
MR. PHILLIPS: I don't believe -- I mean,
it's not a null set, but I don't believe it's a
particularly, I don't think it's a large number of
proceedings. But it seems to me, though, in trying to
understand what the Congress of 1938 would have done and
trying to understand why it would have approached this
in a narrow way, and why this provision is aimed not
generally to protect workers, but is aimed really to
make sure that information gets to the Federal
Government.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that the whole
idea of this statute is to protect the workers, and I
would like you to address particularly the amici's
point, that this statute in 1938 affected people -- many
were illiterate, they couldn't write a complaint, many
were immigrants who weren't familiar with the language,
for that universe of people, wouldn't Congress have
meant that all complaints are okay?
MR. PHILLIPS: Let me start by saying, first
of all, even if the FLSA has broadly a pro employee
protective purpose, it's still important to recognize
that the retaliation provision we are talking about here
specifically did not provide a cause of action, a
private cause of action until 1977. So that when
Congress enacted this statute in 1938, it didn't say boo
about allowing the employees to show up in court and to
assert their rights. This is not part of that
expansive, grant rights to the employee's portion of
this legislation.
And then second, Justice Ginsburg, with
respect to the specifics of what did Congress have in
mind, it seems to me the better way to evaluate this is
not did Congress have in mind a group of illiterate
employees or not, but what language did Congress use in
trying to formulate the specific provision that gives
rise to the protections against retaliation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Your case would be a lot
easier if you didn't try to have it both ways, to say,
number one, it only applies to filing a complaint with
the Government. And number two, you say, it also only
applies to written complaints to the Government. I
mean, why don't you -
MR. PHILLIPS: I will take the former
argument, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why don't you give a break
to the illiterate and let them file oral complaints with
the Government?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, my guess is the truth
is they will be able to file oral complaints with the
Government because, the only thing that is left open is
the precise hypothetical you gave, Justice Scalia, where
you make an oral complaint and nothing gets instituted
in those circumstances. And it seems to me, clearly, in
the Federal Government's authority to simply adopt a
rule that says any time anybody makes an oral complaint
to us we will institute a proceeding. And if the agency
adopted that view, I don't think there is anything we
could do about it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose it says we won't
necessarily institute a proceeding, but we will regard
it as a complaint?
MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I mean, my own view is
the better way of reading -- that is a much closer case,
I will concede that, Justice Scalia. My own view is
that when you talking about file a complaint, that is
just not the way Congress ordinarily thinks about file a
complaint. File always has in mind written -- I'm
sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Scalia's
hypothetical, unless I am misremembering, I think, is
very common. For example, the EEOC, people often file
complaints and then the EEOC considers whether it's
going to institute a proceeding or not.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And I'm not
quarrelling with that. I mean, I understand that. And
the truth is, you know, I think for another day the
issue will arise and the Court can decide whether or not
a mere oral complaint to a government agency is
sufficient to file a complaint within the meaning of
this statute.
I do think it is fundamentally important for
this Court to decide the underlying question of whether
oral complaints are sufficient only in the context in
the first instance of deciding whether or not it has to
go to a government agency as opposed to any kind of
private or intracorporate activity.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does it work with
respect to the more recent statutes? Title VII, The Age
Discrimination Act, Disabilities Act?
MR. PHILLIPS: In terms of retaliation,
Justice Ginsburg?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. If you have not
filed anything with the Government, but you have to your
supervisor opposed a practice.
MR. PHILLIPS: No, the vast majority of
those statutes talk about any action that -- opposing a
practice, and therefore they deal with a lot of
intracorporate activities, and obviously at some point
there is an issue as to sort of what the employer's
intent is and how far it got up the ladder -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But is it -- so in those
cases I think you are quite right, intracorporate
complaints count as opposing any practice. Has there
been any huge problems about people saying, oh, I made
an oral complaint to my supervisor, and supervisor said
I never heard of it?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I suspect that issue
comes up almost every day, and it is a problem; but it's
a problem that Congress made a judgment that we would
rather go ahead and allow those matters to be litigated;
and language that is very expansive in protecting
employees from retaliation. And while I -- I may chafe
at that at times as a managing partner of a law firm, I
recognize that that is the judgment that Congress made.
Here we are talking about a Congress that
made a very different judgment about how it wanted to
protect retaliation. And it was a judgment that was
made, it seems to me, very much in the context of 1938.
Justice Sotomayor, you are very right; they were not
sure they even had constitutional authority to be
adopting this approach; and they are attaching to it
criminal sanctions, and they are not providing a private
right of action; and in that context it seems to me that
this Court should comfortably say that this is a much
narrower proposition.
JUSTICE BREYER: What about Justice
Ginsburg's question?
MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE BREYER: What about her question?
In 1938 a lot of illiterate people couldn't have filed
written complaints.
MR. PHILLIPS: And Congress must have
recognized that fact, and -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if they did, isn't it
reasonable to think that they would have included in
filing, in such circumstances, oral filing?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, because if under those
circumstances when you're going to impose criminal
sanctions on somebody, you're going to say we are not
going to do that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But your easier answer is,
"yes, but only with the government." Why isn't that an
easier answer?
MR. PHILLIPS: I mean, I am perfectly
comfortable with that.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, that -- your problem
is -- that in front of us, do we have to decide that
now? We've granted a different question, etc. So -
MR. PHILLIPS: The -- I mean, the truth
is -
JUSTICE BREYER: You may not want to give up
your first point.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I don't want to give up
either of the points, actually. But the bottom line is,
Justice Breyer, the question presented is -- is very
broad. I mean, the question of whether this goes to a
governmental entity is fairly -
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. Then it's odd that
you say -- it -- I gather, as well, for about 50 or
60 years the relevant agencies have interpreted the -
the statute the way that -- to include oral complaints.
And that seems to me a fairly strong reason
for continuing to do so, if -- where the language is
so -- allows it and there aren't any strong reasons the
other way.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I don't know that
there's 50 or 60 years of allowing oral complaints -
JUSTICE BREYER: Maybe it's 30 years. Maybe
it's 30.
MR. PHILLIPS: -- to be in the -- in the
private context.
There may be 50 to 60 years of allowing oral
complaints being brought to the government agency, which
I do think would go to Justice Scalia's point, but with
respect to intracorporate communications there is no
60-year practice -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do we owe any deference to
the Government's position on this point?
MR. PHILLIPS: I would not give any
deference to the Government's position. Certainly not
Chevron deference because this is not a -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, Chevron deference
would depend on an intent. I guess you are getting into
an argument here that there's no reason to repeat in
public. I mean, Justice Scalia and I don't necessarily
agree on this. Why would you -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I mean, regardless of
whether we do, why -- why don't you think we --we have
to give any deference, Chevron -- Chevron deference.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean I -- yes.
There is no Chevron deference -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why?
MR. PHILLIPS: -- because this is not a
matter that has been allocated to either the EEOC or the
Secretary of Labor to administer and to adopt
regulations.
JUSTICE BREYER: How do we know? I mean,
all right, if you want to get into it, this is a very
minor sort of interstitial point in a statute that they
administer, and there are lots of instances, I think
where the Court has said, where these minor matters of
how you work out the actual application of the word are
implicitly delegate it to the agency to determine within
the context of reasonable view.
MR. PHILLIPS: But Justice Breyer, that
would strike me as a more persuasive argument if
Congress hadn't -- hadn't delegated to the Secretary of
Labor specific rulemaking authority with respect to
specific provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, and
does not have a similar provision in connection with
section 215(a).
JUSTICE BREYER: But not everything has to
be done through formal rules. There -- there are many,
many ways of agencies determining practice.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. But -- agency
decisionmaking, but we don't have that either. All we
have here are certain enforcement actions that are being
brought by the agency and indeed, if you look at the
enforcement actions, they all ultimately tie to some
official action by some government entity. None of the
actions that -- that you can go back to say I am going
to defer to this, go into the circumstance we are
talking about here, where it's a purely private action
as opposed to some kind of a public -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we should give it no
weight at all?
MR. PHILLIPS: I would give it no weight at
all. But even if you gave it weight -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Not even Skidmore?
MR. PHILLIPS: -- its persuasive weight, its
persuasive weight as applied on a private side is
nonexistent. You know, again, if -- if the issue were
before -- if the -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why? Why would it be
different? If an agency work out a system of deciding
when a person is really making a complaint, as opposed
to an offhand remark, and that is good enough to run the
government of the United States, where they have -
where they are in this business, why -- why couldn't
whatever their indicia are there, also be transplanted
to the private sector -
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it might be -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and get that to work out
all right -
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, but we don't have -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- in which case you would
be left, if you are going to say that might work,
then -- the you are left with the simple argument that
you don't think that this statute means to apply to
complaints to an employer, written or oral?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I -- I think the answer
to that question is you don't have anywhere near the
50 years of practice dealing with the specific
hypothetical you posed, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Would you accept -- you
think -- that a tenable interpretation? What this means
is that written complaints are good enough to count as
filings where you complained to your private employer,
but written or oral count as a filing where you deal to
-- with the government agency?
MR. PHILLIPS: I mean, I don't think that's
the most natural way -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, it isn't.
MR. PHILLIPS: -- to read this statute. And
I think the right way to read the statute is to either
say -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I agree with you.
MR. PHILLIPS: -- that a -- that an oral
complaint is -- is not sufficient, but if -- but I don't
think you have to decide that issue. I think the better
way to decide this case and the more fundamental one; it
is the one Justice Scalia was coming back to, is does it
apply beyond the government agency context? And if
that isn't -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That isn't even brought
up in the brief in opposition, right? It -- it's in
your brief on the merits.
MR. PHILLIPS: It wasn't brought up
specifically in the brief in opposition. On the other
hand, it was clearly presented and decided by the
Seventh Circuit, so it was in the case as it came to
this Court; and this Court's rule is that you can defend
the judgment on any ground that's fairly presented. And
-- and this ground seems to me more than fairly
presented, since it -
JUSTICE BREYER: On the ground itself, is
there anything in the legislative history of the statute
that says it's limited to the government?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the -- yes -- if you go
back to the legislative history there is a colloquy
between the two Senators, and I recognize some members
of the Court are unenthusiastic -- but -- but you know,
in that colloquy, they talk about malicious complaints,
and it seems to me malicious in that context is talking
about where you have essentially defamed your employer
through a government agency.
JUSTICE BREYER: That could be. It could be
that they are thinking of malicious complaints and they
are thinking of government agencies at the time, but
neither their language nor their purpose, as history
later shows, requires that limitation on scope.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think if you are
going back and trying to figure out what the Congress of
1938 had in mind, the best way to do that is to look at
the language chosen and the company that that language
keeps. And when you take about filing a complaint and
you file a -- you talk about instituting a proceeding or
causing a proceeding to be instituted, or testifying at
a proceeding that's formal, or belonging to a -- to a
company committee that is again, a governmentally
instituted methodology, the best way to read that is to
say what they have in mind is an official government
action of some sort. And it makes perfect -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How would it -- how would
it relate to, say, an equal pay complaint? Because
equal pay is formally part of the Fair -
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. It is tied to this.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- Labor Standards Act.
But an equal pay complaint could also be brought as a
Title VII suit.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So a -- a worker just
complains about the denial of equal pay to the
supervisor. Does that -- is that -
MR. PHILLIPS: I have no doubt that an
employee under those circumstances if -- if discharged
would be able to make a claim under Title VII of
retaliation for that particular conduct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And there's been -- you
said there was no evidence of the government for
60 years -- but there has been some 30 years or more
experience under Title VII of the statutes, with oral
complaints to the employer as being sufficient to ground
a retaliation claim.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And I -- I think the
key to this process, Justice Ginsburg, is what lens you
are looking at. Are you looking through the cracked and
yellowed glass that I am looking through from 1938, or
the glass as it looks through in 2010, and the truth is
if you were going to adopt -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it really -- it
starts in 1970.
MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It starts in the 1970s.
MR. PHILLIPS: To be sure, Justice Ginsburg,
but the -- but the -- this statute was enacted in 1938,
and it was enacted as fairly radical and made an -- an
initial incursion from protecting people from
rehabilitation. It doesn't purport to be as expansive
as any of the subsequent -- and the truth is -- can I
make this point?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How long have collective
bargaining arbitration agreements been in existence.
MR. PHILLIPS: Since the Federal Arbitration
Act -- well, it actually probably predates the Federal
Arbitration Act.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How old?
MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, it would have been back
around the same period of time, in the 1930s.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think that when
Congress wrote or caused to be instituted any proceeding
under or related to this chapter, that they intended to
exclude that proceeding and intended to exclude people
who testified in that proceeding about a violation of
the statute?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. I don't -- I believe
that proceeding is used in the Fair Labor Standards Act
consistently throughout the statute to talk about
Government -- official Government actions and not
simply -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you point me to
something in the act that defines "proceedings" -
MR. PHILLIPS: No, nothing.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- "related" -- the
words "proceedings related to this chapter," as limited
only to Government proceedings?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean, that -- in the
brief we identified a number of places where Congress
uses the word "proceedings," and every place where they
use the word "proceedings" they have in mind an official
Government activity. And so I think it is the most
reasonable -- logical way to read this particular
language as incorporating that.
Of course, even if that were true, even if
you would preserve that, that still wouldn't be a basis
for going forward with this case, because there was no
proceeding that was instituted pursuant to the informal
actions that were taken.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Then we're back to if
Congress meant filing any complaints, either oral or in
writing. I'm asking a different question, which is -
MR. PHILLIPS: I understand that, but I'm -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That Congress's intent
was not to protect a worker who publicly took an oath in
front of an arbitrator and testified about a violation
of law, that they would not have considered that
retaliatory under the statute.
MR. PHILLIPS: I do not believe they would
have regarded that as retaliatory under the statute
because of the fact that the way this is all set up is
the -- and the -- it's just the narrowness of the Fair
Labor Standards Act.
And, Justice Ginsburg, to your question
about the subsequent legislation that has all been
enacted, it seems to me in a lot of ways that that
reinforces the core interpretive approach that I have
taken in this case, because if it were absolutely clear
that the language about filing a complaint and
instituting a proceeding were as broad as -- certainly
as the Petitioner proposes in this case, where any kind
of oral grumbling is sufficient, Congress never would
have needed to deviate from that template and all the
legislation that came afterwards.
And there are tons of statutes that say:
File a complaint, institute a proceeding, and otherwise
oppose. And there would have been no reason for
Congress to do that if this language would have
accomplished precisely the same thing.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's more of a question
for the Petitioner's counsel than you, but are you aware
of any cases in any other jurisdictions where there have
been proceedings, actions for retaliation, based on
complaints to third parties, like complaining to the
press?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I'm sure there are such
cases, Your Honor. I mean, I doubt -- it probably
wouldn't come up so much in the Fair Labor Standards Act
process. And that's the problem: This has got a fairly
narrow sweep to it.
Obviously, wage and hours is not a
significant activity, but it doesn't tend to generate
the same kind of intensity that you might expect out of
Title VII or the Age Discrimination in Employment Act or
some of the other provisions.
If there are no further questions, Your
Honors, I would ask the Court to affirm the judgment.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Just one more question.
MR. PHILLIPS: Sure.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It seems to me you are
saying the only complaint that counts is the one to the
Government.
Isn't -- in the work setting that's being
regulated, wouldn't there be every reason to want the
employee to complain first to the employer rather than
making a Federal case out of it by complaining to a
Government agency?
MR. PHILLIPS: Intuitively, I don't disagree
with that, Justice Ginsburg, but we have to go, again:
What was the purpose of this particular statute? And
this statute was not intended as a protection to the
employer or to the employee -- or to the employer. This
was a provision that was designed to give information to
the Federal Government.
And we know that because there's no private
right of action to the employee that it is enforceable
as a criminal sanction. And if you go back to the
precursors of the Fair Labor Standards Act -- and
somebody asked; this was the first one. I gathered
there was a third one. There was the Railway Labor Act,
the NLRA, and then there was this particular provision.
But if you go back to these precursors, you
see that it's, again, a very narrow approach that was
taken under those statutes as well.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if you are an
employee of the Treasury Department and there is an oral
complaint to your superior? Is that filing a complaint
with the Government?
MR. PHILLIPS: I mean, part of it depends on
whether the Fair Labor Standards Act applies to Federal
employees. There is a whole separate regime that deals
with Federal employees. And I can't -- I'm not
100 percent sure whether this provision applies under
those circumstances.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Thank you,
Mr. Phillips.
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Kaster, you have
five minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES H. KASTER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KASTER: Thank you, Your Honor.
We have two agencies here that have
interpreted this statute this way. And it's not just
enforcement actions, but we also have the EEOC manual.
We also have other acts. The Surface Transportation
Act -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I don't
understand how those agencies have any part in the
administration of private lawsuits under this statute.
MR. KASTER: The Department of Labor
administers all -- all of the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It administers lawsuits?
MR. KASTER: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, it seems to me it's
a matter for the courts. An agency interprets the
statutes that direct the agency's own actions if it has
to enforce things and so forth. But where there is a
provision for a suit in court, it seems to me it's up to
the courts to decide what it means.
MR. KASTER: That may be true, Your Honor.
We have the identical language in the Surface
Transportation Act in OSHA, which the agency does have
regulatory power over and has interpreted this precise
language to include oral communications.
In addition, the Migrant Workers Act -
counsel wants to suggest that all of this is a throwback
to '38. The Migrant Workers Act, which was adopted in
1982, has the very same language. It is implausible to
suggest that Congress would think that a migrant worker
was leaving the field and writing up a memo and bringing
it back to his supervisor in order to assert his
statutory rights.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you mean by the
very same language? Just -
MR. KASTER: Filed any complaint. Filed a
complaint.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the remainder of it?
Institute a proceeding -
MR. KASTER: It goes beyond -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Be a member of a committee?
He is relying on large part on the context of filing a
complaint. Does this statute have those other
provisions?
MR. KASTER: It does not have those other
provisions, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a big difference.
MR. KASTER: Well, I respectfully disagree,
Your Honor.
I also suggest that what we are talking
about in the very first case that this Court dealt with
after the act was passed were coal miners. Nobody is
taking -- I don't think it would be plausible to suggest
that Congress thought that coal miners -- coal miners,
factory workers, line workers -- they don't write memos.
With all due respect, Your Honor, lawyers write memos.
People who this act was intended to cover, the poorest
and the least educated people in the country.
That's why under Mitchell v. DeMario and
that's why under Tennessee Coal the Court has taken the
position that this deserves, has to have, a broad
interpretation. Employees are the engine that actually
enforces this act.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That goes to your
adversary's first argument or second argument where he
says when this act was passed for all of those people,
they would never have thought of going to their employer
because the work ethos at the time was that those
employees couldn't complain to their employers. They
would always naturally go to the Government.
How do you answer that? How do you disprove
that point: That historically at the time this was
passed in 1938, that there was a number of those
employees who as a regular course of their business,
filed complaints with their employers as opposed to the
Government?
MR. KASTER: Any complaints, Your Honor.
Filed charges was the -- was the previous language in
the National Labor Relations Act. Congress adopted a
different phrase here, "any" -- "filed any complaint" -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.
MR. KASTER: "Filed any complaint." In
Rosenwasser, this Court said that the criminal liability
concerns of the employer were addressed by the word
"any." In other words, when they suggested under the
act that there was criminal liability and they didn't
know the piecework employees were covered, the Court
responded in 1945, the word "any" resolves any kind of
ambiguity that the employer should have had.
In this case "any" means any and all, and
that is without limitation. That is the kind of
complaint that is protected under the act. On
December 11 -- there is no question in this case Kevin
Kasten asserted his statutory rights. This is a case
about form over substance. Form over substance. That's
what we are talking about.
On December 11, 2006, Mr. Kaster was fired.
The same date, they changed the time clocks so that
everybody else would get paid, just as he complained
they weren't properly legally being paid before that.
They changed the clocks the same day. If -- now, there
were a half a million complaints last year in the
Department of Labor.
If the Court should find that every
complaint needs to go to the Department of Labor, then
when I get a call from an employee, a disgruntled
employee who says, my paycheck was wrong, or there is
something wrong with my overtime calculation, I'm going
to say, You can't afford to call the human resources
department and have a conversation, a friendly
conversation about this, because if you do, and you
happen to trigger a statutory assertion, that will be
unprotected. You are going to foreclose all the
internal communications that could occur.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. KASTER: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:01 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
addresses 14:15 6:22,25 7:5 8:1 2:2,5,9,12 3:4,7
54:25 administer 38:21 Alito's 5:12 14:19,24 16:13 basis 46:11
adopt 6:5 10:2,12 ambiguity 53:19 46:17 45:17 46:24
10:24,25 adopted 5:14 16:15 53:24 better 32:8 33:14
22:14 25:4 9:12 33:8 51:8 amiss 18:11 asserting 13:13 41:21
31:1 53:9 answer 5:9 36:17 13:16 20:14 beyond 8:13,24
39:10 adopting 35:22 36:19 41:2 53:1 23:18 24:8,17 30:18 41:24
45:6,7,18 adversary's answered 29:13 25:17 51:20
47:3 48:3 52:20 antecedents 7:24 assertion 19:25 big 52:2
49:8,10,20 affirm 48:12 anti-retaliation 20:19 21:15 blank 20:10
51:3,6,8 afford 54:14 16:22 17:18 54:17 Board 17:20,21
AFL-CIO 8:13 18:15 25:20 assistance 19:19 boo 32:1
10:7 19:9 anybody 33:6 22:14 boss 23:22 24:3
30:3 31:24 22:23 37:11 APPEARANC... attend 23:11 break 32:21
34:22 39:15 42:25 1:15 attending 23:23 Breyer 8:12 9:6
39:21,24 50:8,14 application 39:3 authority 20:14 9:16 10:6 19:1
49:6 agency 5:4 12:12 applied 40:7 33:5 35:21 39:9 19:14,17 20:9
33:7 34:4,11 32:15,17 49:20 aware 47:21 22:19 26:25
46:14 37:24 39:4,16 49:23 awful 11:23 28:10 36:2,5,10
50:10,22 39:19 40:11 apply 12:1 23:5 a.m 1:14 3:2 36:22 37:2,6,9
50:21 approach 35:22 B 38:23 39:6,13
47:7 49:13 B 1:18 2:6 16:13 40:10,19,22
48:7
arbitrator 46:21 42:16 43:4 45:9 42:2,3,5 46:4
causing 15:16 cited 18:4 6:10 8:11 48:16 49:17,17
47:10 certainly 10:3 claim 24:1 26:1,6 8:8 11:11 18:25 54:10
29:21 38:6 26:13 44:3,10 23:7 complaints 12:2
chafe 35:13 18:16 38:1 51:5 54:19 17:6 18:6 19:12
39:19 challenging clearly 25:16 company 4:6,16 32:17,22,25
43:20 25:14 33:4 42:6 5:4 16:1 23:12 33:23 34:9 35:4
charge 7:25 9:13 25:10 54:3,6 complain 15:4 46:16 47:24
closer 33:14 48:20 52:24 53:5,7 54:7
38:15,15,17 8:21,24,25 48:21 confrontation
26:21 24:2,7,10,12 colloquy 42:16 5:25 6:4,10,12 27:16 29:7 31:6
9:9,23 33:20 49:15,25 come 8:18 13:5 11:13 12:3,9,11 32:10 33:17
12:4 50:3 54:20,22 48:3 12:13,13,20,22 35:10,15,16
20:22 chose 6:6 comes 14:2 21:8 13:24 14:23 36:8 39:8 43:4
24:15,25 chosen 43:6 35:9 15:1,5,9,24 45:12 46:4,16
32:13 Circuit 14:6,7,7 comfortable 16:5,6 17:25 47:12,18 51:10
40:22 14:11,13,14,17 30:16,19 36:21 18:3,18 19:13 52:9 53:9
42:7 42:7 comfortably 20:11 21:1,4,9 Congress's
47:8,11 circuits 14:3,5 35:25 21:24 22:17 46:19
52:6 26:11,16 coming 41:23 23:16 24:13 connected 21:23
circumstance commencing 25:3 26:7,10 connection 39:11
39:23 15:6 27:22 28:1,3,6 conscious 30:17
27:9 35:3 7:15 33:4 36:12 committee 43:11 32:15 33:3,6,12 considered 46:22
48:2 36:14 44:2 51:21 33:16,18 34:4,5 considers 33:23
CIT 29:24 33:22 41:20 43:7,16 25:19 28:18
48:12 50:24 40:11 35:17 36:24 easier 14:11
courts 16:25 20:2defamed 42:21 differently 24:18 EEOC 33:22,23
50:21,25 defendant's difficulties 16:19 effect 19:10
cover 10:5 15:2 defer 39:23 directed 5:24 22:12 37:5
18:21 52:12 38:7,8,15,15 directing 5:16 41:16 46:16
28:4,25 covered 24:25 38:17 6:9,23 elements 20:11
30:8 34:9 53:17 defines 45:23 direction 27:18 employee 4:13
37:22 coworker 18:9 degree 7:1 directly 21:23 4:14 5:4,20 7:6
41:24 18:12 delegate 39:4 Disabilities 7:6,10 8:17
51:22 cracked 44:13 delegated 39:8 34:15 13:25 17:19
criminal 29:15 denying 30:8 17:22 44:2 28:10,13,15
49:7 53:13,16 21:24 49:16 discuss 8:18 54:11,12
47:21 D 3:1 depending 7:15 disposed 12:5 53:17
54:20 dangerous 22:6 depends 49:19 disprove 53:1 employee's 32:4
date 54:3 described 9:20 disregard 30:17 4:21 7:8 10:3
dealing 41:4 determination 15:10 17:21 20:13,17 21:6
4:2 dealt 52:6 determine 39:4 doubt 44:1 48:2 23:17,17 25:3
9:12 10:2 December 53:23 determining dramatic 27:17 26:2,8,9 28:13
17:1 54:2 39:15 drivers 18:23 28:13 29:5,9
25:8,14 decide 12:6 34:3 deviate 47:13 due 11:4 52:11 41:1,9 42:21
26:24 34:8 36:23 deviates 11:1 D.C 1:9,19,22 44:9 48:20 49:2
32:2 41:21,22 50:25 difference 52:2 49:2 52:22
35:25 decided 42:6 different 7:16 E 53:14,19
42:8,18 decides 15:5 24:20 29:14 E 2:1 3:1,1 employers 12:16
52:24 exclude 45:14,14 field 51:11 five 50:4 further 15:24
excuse 17:5 figure 20:25 43:4 FLSA 18:15,15 48:11
existence 45:4 11:6 12:22,25 21:7 23:12,18 G
35:12 44:25 17:25 18:1,3 28:18 31:21 26:21
47:6 experience 22:7 32:22,25 33:16 fogey 17:12 37:10
39:18,20 expressed 22:13 11:13 12:10 foreclose 54:18 9:10
extends 30:17 13:1,18 34:19 form 9:18 20:7 generally 25:21
factory 8:10 13:23,24 16:5,5 20:3,11 28:4 29:17 30:6,11
factual 25:25 30:22 32:15 former 32:19 34:18 35:2 42:1
28:12 31:1 39:10 filings 9:8 12:2 formulation 48:13,15,24
25:13 far 35:1 firing 30:4 friendly 54:15 25:22
19:7 favor 10:9 first 11:9 14:6 FSLA 7:7 glass 44:14,15
28:9 Federal 27:18 28:22 31:20 fundamental go 4:8 8:13,23
31:10 33:5 45:5 34:10 37:3 41:22 12:18 13:14,17
49:20,22 52:20 34:7 17:20 21:22
37:25 grant 32:4 6:12,21 7:3,15 inclined 12:11 intended 45:13
42:15 granted 25:8 8:4 9:4,10 include 3:24 45:14 49:1
49:7,12 36:24 10:12,20 11:4 11:15 37:12 52:12
54:10 greater 27:6 11:10,17 12:21 51:5 intensity 48:8
24:3 28:10 9:2,3,4,17 15:11,15 16:9 36:11 38:9 46:19
51:20 10:16,19,23 32:20 48:2 50:2 includes 3:15,17 intercompany
11:18,21 12:17 50:7 51:1 52:1 7:1,23 9:13 26:12
16:9 grieve 28:11 Honors 48:12 including 12:16 interpretation
21:22 ground 25:8 42:9 hopefully 8:19 12:17 13:23 41:7
23:11 42:10,12 44:9 Hospital 14:14 incorporating 52:17
33:24 group 32:9 14:16 46:9 interpreted 3:24
grudging 4:4 hour 20:6 incursion 44:24 4:3 14:5 37:11
40:23 grumbling 13:25 hours 30:9 48:6 indicated 20:13 50:9 51:4
44:16 47:12 huge 35:5 indicia 19:23 interpreting 4:2
52:22 guess 32:24 38:9 human 25:12 20:3 40:16 10:8
guys 16:2 54:14 industries 18:23 interpretive 47:7
41:8 H hurt 4:13 23:10 informal 3:17 interstitial 38:25
6:3,5,10 half 54:7 33:2,21 41:5 information 26:17
16:6,20 hallway 8:9 31:10 49:3 intracorporate
21:3 hand 20:8 42:6 I inherently 27:3,5 34:12,24 35:3
28:19 happen 54:17 idea 18:10 20:24 initial 8:15 44:24 38:1
31:11 happened 9:13 31:13 insist 15:7 Intuitively 48:23
happens 4:12 9:8 identical 51:2 instance 17:16 invoke 10:16,19
34:4,11,19 happy 20:6 identified 46:4 22:13 34:10 10:23
37:24 harassment identifies 8:13 instances 39:1 involve 8:21
40:14 11:13 identify 8:18 institute 14:25 issue 11:2 34:3
42:14 hard 20:25 illegal 3:12 28:6 29:9 33:7 34:25 35:8 40:8
43:13 havoc 6:7 illiterate 31:16 33:11,24 47:16 41:21
45:20,20 hear 3:3 22:20 32:9,22 36:6 51:19
48:17,22 heard 35:7 immigrants instituted 14:20 J
52:25 held 14:17 29:24 31:17 14:21,22 15:13 JAMES 1:16 2:3
help 22:5 implausible 51:9 15:16,19,19,20 2:13 3:7 50:5
23:3 imply 18:14 33:3 43:9,12 2:6 16:13
historically 53:2 25:18 29:11 instituting 15:16 Joe 7:11 23:23
22:25 43:1 importing 9:22 29:6 43:8 47:10 judgment 25:8
38:4,6 honest 5:10 impose 36:14 institution 30:22 35:10,15,17,18
49:15,25 50:3 17:16 19:4 legal 25:8
4:5,25 5:11 51:14,18,21 24:8 25:3 26:1 54:5 machine 4:13
6:2,13 52:2,19 53:11 27:12 29:11 legislation 32:5 majority 26:16
7:5 54:20,22 30:24 34:2 47:5,14 34:21
9:6,16 justify 28:7 37:17 38:23 legislative 42:13 making 25:3
40:8 42:18 49:5 42:16 40:12 48:21
12:25 K 53:17 lens 44:12 malicious 42:19
Kasten 1:3 3:4 let's 4:8 28:11 42:20,24
14:8 3:11 8:6 10:3 L liabilities 30:1 managing 35:14
10:17 11:18 labor 3:15 4:1,16 liability 29:18,20 manner 11:14
17:7 13:7,16 15:22 7:22 10:25 53:13,16 manual 11:17
53:24 14:18,24 15:4 light 10:8 50:10
19:1 Kaster 1:16 2:3 17:4 22:7 29:20 limitation 43:2 matter 1:12
20:9 2:13 3:6,7,9 31:1 38:21 39:9 53:21 38:20 50:21
4:20 5:6,16,23 39:10 43:19 limited 42:14 54:25
22:2 6:9,17,21,23 45:18 47:3 48:3 46:1 matters 35:11
23:3,9 7:3,14 8:2,6 9:3 49:8,10,20 line 37:5 52:10 39:2
24:2,7,10 9:10 10:1,11,20 50:16 53:9 54:8 listening 27:2 mean 4:25 5:13
25:1,24 11:3,8 12:21 54:10 litigated 35:11 6:14,17 11:6,21
13:2,11 14:4,10 ladder 25:12 little 20:18 12:19 15:7 17:9
27:5,15 15:11 16:9 50:3 35:1 location 3:12 18:14 24:14
28:8,10 50:5,7,16,19 language 8:14 Lochner 27:20 25:2 26:14 30:3
29:1,13 51:1,16,20,25 10:14 12:22 lodge 11:10 13:2 31:2 32:18
30:2,6,11 52:3 53:7,12 13:10 17:24,25 13:11 22:16 33:13 34:1
31:12 54:2,21 18:1,3 22:13,15 logical 46:8 36:20,25 37:7
33:2 Kaster's 23:5 27:21,24 31:17 long 45:3 38:11,13,16,23
keep 10:21 32:10 35:12 look 16:2 21:13 41:12 46:3 48:2
keeps 43:7 37:14 43:1,6,6 21:13,14 22:19 49:19 50:20
36:2,2 Kennedy 13:14 46:9 47:9,18 30:19 39:19 51:14
13:17,20 14:8 51:2,5,9,15 43:5 meaning 3:14
26:11,15 47:20 53:8 looked 20:3 11:1,2 12:23
Kevin 1:3 3:11 large 31:4 51:22 27:14 13:1 29:7,10
39:6 8:6 53:23 late 14:2 looking 10:4,7 34:5
40:1,5,10 key 44:12 Laughter 13:19 10:13 12:21 means 3:16 5:16
41:5,6 kind 8:20 16:25 22:1 44:13,13,14 6:15 11:8,9
19:23 22:5 law 5:5 7:5 22:7 looks 44:15 12:7 13:2,23
34:11 39:25 35:14 46:22 lose 3:13 9:23 30:4 40:25 41:7
47:11 48:8 lawsuits 50:15 25:15 50:25 53:20
53:18,21 50:18 lot 11:23 19:6 meant 29:7 31:19
45:3,8,11 kinds 17:4 18:23 lawyers 52:11 21:20 32:13 46:16
46:15 19:12 leads 26:13 34:23 36:6 47:6 meet 28:13
47:4,20 know 5:4,6,8 leaving 51:11 lots 39:1 meets 25:17
15:7 left 33:1 40:23 member 51:21
near 41:3 34:24 48:6 49:16 51:5 passing 7:11
23:25 October 1:10 29:3 people 8:11 13:5
needs 54:10 offhand 40:13 51:12 30:1 31:15,18
never 15:18,19 official 28:19 ordinary 6:25 44:24 45:14
33:18 43:5 new 12:4,4 46:6 ought 16:2 20:17 perfect 18:22
46:6 Ninth 14:6 oh 7:10 35:5 45:9 24:3 43:14
NLRA's 17:18 old 17:12 45:8 owe 38:3 Performance 1:6
21:13 oldest 17:7,10,11 P period 45:10
18:24 19:2 oppose 47:17 paid 25:11 54:4,5 26:5 30:4 40:12
10:5 12:5 34:11,20 39:25 part 32:3 43:17 personnel 25:12
11:10,16 opposing 18:16 51:22 40:6,7
23:21,22 26:8 oral 1:12 2:2,5,9 14:19 18:13,21 3:8 16:15 24:19
notion 28:3 8:14 9:7 12:11 28:25 29:10,12 Petitioner's
48:5 49:13 27:7,10 28:23 12:18 47:24 29:23 30:10,13
35:8 posed 41:5 12:12,17 provide 8:24 48:11
position 20:24 proceeding 31:24 quite 27:3 35:3
37:4,17 38:4,6 52:16 14:20,21,25 provided 9:19 quote 12:10
38:5,16 potential 30:1 15:6,8,13,16 provides 9:7
39:6,16 power 51:4 15:20,21 16:1 providing 35:23 R
practical 16:19 28:6,7,7,16,17 provision 11:6 R 3:1
16:25 28:20 29:2,2,6 17:19 18:15 radical 44:23
43:3,18 practice 18:16 29:6,10 30:23 28:5 30:20 31:8railing 24:4
44:1,11 34:20,23 35:4 33:7,11,24 43:8 31:23 32:11 Railway 49:10
45:5,9 38:2 39:15 41:4 43:9,10 45:12 39:11 49:3,11 raising 17:1
46:3 precedent 9:7 45:14,15,18 49:23 50:24 read 9:18 27:21
48:1 precise 33:2 51:4 46:13 47:10,16 provisions 16:22 27:24 41:15,16
49:19 precisely 47:19 51:19 25:20 39:10 43:12 46:8
precursors 49:8 proceedings 18:6 48:10 51:24 reading 25:22
11:16 preserve 46:11 promulgated purpose 18:12 40:12 44:17
25:10 press 47:25 21:17 31:22 43:1 reason 5:11 9:22
pretty 24:4 promulgates 48:25 30:16,18 37:13
26:24 40:7,17 41:9 30:25 16:10 50:5
25:7 31:15 pro 31:21 35:18 46:20 qualification recognize 14:1
37:3,25 probably 24:11 protected 26:17 30:7 31:22 35:15
45:2,22 45:6 48:2 53:22 quarrelling 34:1 42:17
problem 8:19 protecting 11:12 question 5:9,12 recognized 36:9
27:15 35:9,10 protection 29:17 13:15,18 20:21 21:2
10:16,19,23 31:22 41:3 46:17 47:4 regard 33:11
27:18 24:22 26:22 rules 39:14 21:5 28:22 32:6 something's 4:11
38:22 1:23 Secretary 38:21 33:19 36:4
rest 16:10 safeguards 9:20 30:25 39:12 43:14
46:1 30:3,12,14,20 sanctions 35:23 sees 19:18 28:8,21 29:1,13
44:4,10 47:23 24:17,22 25:2 26:13 45:25 46:15,19
33:25 35:3,20 23:12,13,22 Seventh 42:7 42:5
44:11 49:6 Scalia 8:5 11:20 shows 43:2 stage 8:15 15:14
20:15,19 23:18 15:18,23 17:7 29:19 40:7 19:10,15 27:4
32:3,4 51:13 18:20 27:15 significant 48:7 Standards 3:15
25:24 26:18 51:14,18,21 45:21 start 15:25 16:20
32:7 50:3 54:20,22 Scalia's 33:20 situation 21:3 started 15:12
38:1 39:9 Rosenwasser 37:25 Sixth 14:11 23:10
53:13 scheme 29:10 Skidmore 40:5 starts 44:18,20
16:14 40:14 subsequent 45:1 suspect 22:21 testifying 43:9 throwback 51:7
10:4,7 substance 53:25 sweep 48:5 14:15 tied 43:18
14:6 15:1 53:25 system 9:22 testimony 18:2 time 3:12,25 5:20
18:14 substantial 13:21 40:11 Thank 3:9 16:11 7:20 9:14 10:24
28:11 sufficient 9:1,2 26:18,19,23 16:10 20:18
20:11 34:5,9 T 49:25 50:2,7 21:17,18 23:24
30:9,20 41:20 44:9 T 2:1,1 54:20,21 25:10,11 27:25
32:1 47:12 take 9:1,23 thing 6:13 7:16 33:6 42:25
37:12 suggest 51:7,10 18:19 19:10 10:13 14:18 45:10 52:23
40:25 52:5,8 32:19 43:7 15:17 17:13 53:2 54:3
42:13 suggested 28:10 taken 3:13 30:22 22:5 25:13 times 35:14
45:16,19 53:15 46:14 47:8 29:12 33:1 Title 18:17 25:21
48:25 suggests 27:14 49:14 52:15 47:19 34:14 43:21
50:9,15 suit 43:21 50:24 takes 9:19 things 9:13 19:6 44:3,8 48:9
summary 25:8 talk 11:21 13:5 20:2 50:23 told 3:11 10:23
17:24,24 14:20,21 42:19 43:8 6:11,21 9:6 tons 47:15
19:18 superior 49:17 45:19 11:3 12:11,19 tradition 8:22
25:21 supervisor 4:8 talking 9:16 16:5 13:7 14:24 transplanted
34:14,22 4:12,14,15 7:11 16:6 17:11 15:12,15 19:14 40:16
47:15 8:18 20:8 23:7 18:22 19:24 19:16,23 20:1,3 Transportation
50:22 23:11,13,21 31:23 33:16 20:17,20,21 22:14 50:11
13:13 35:6 43:25 42:20 52:5 54:1 23:2,4,8,15,25 Treasury 49:16
20:1,14,19 51:12 tap 8:25 24:10,14,16 trial 7:13,14
24:8,20 supervisory taps 4:15 25:18 26:3,4 trigger 54:17
26:1 20:14 telephone 12:13 27:14,23 31:4 troubled 16:8
53:24 supporting 1:21 tell 17:20 18:9 33:8,21 34:2,7 troublemaker
2:8 16:15 23:13,13 26:16 35:3 36:11 23:25
27:20 31:10 Tenth 14:7 thinking 25:14 try 22:6 32:14
48:1,14 49:23 terms 8:7 10:1 thinks 33:17 31:5,7 32:11
26:6 50:11 51:2 34:16 thought 6:7 Tuesday 4:22
surround 19:3 test 10:22 23:15 18:10 31:12 two 20:2 32:16
violating 4:16 5:5 47:6 46:11 48:3,19 44:14,22 53:3
34:1 violation 21:7,15 weeks 7:8 21:16 31:16 1945 53:18
50:14 21:22 26:2 weight 40:2,3,4,6 52:10,11 1961 11:9
28:2,18 45:15 46:21 went 25:9,11 6:5 9:19 10:25 1970s 44:20
16:14 40:14
win 9:23 wrong 23:24 21 23:2
18:1,13 word 6:15 7:1 25:10 54:12,13 215(a) 39:12
20:12 10:6,24 11:6 wrote 45:12 215(a)(3) 3:14
21:8,16 12:23 39:3 46:5 26 2:11
23:8 46:6 53:14,18 X
3
24:6,10 words 3:18 10:4 x 1:2,8
25:6,24 19:19 22:8
24:24 46:1
15:7,25 work 3:24 4:2
19:11 5:21 6:1 21:25
18:24 41:4 44:7,7 50 2:14 37:10,18
38:24 28:23,24 29:1
22:9 yellowed 44:14 37:23 41:4
34:13 39:3
46:6 yesterday 23:22
16:4
1:5 3:4
wasn't 10:15 workers 3:25 1
11:11,15 18:16 24:23,25 workplace 4:12 12:01 54:24
27:24,25 30:19 9:5 13 1:10
37:12,16
