IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-846
TOHONO O'ODHAM NATION :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, November 1, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ANTHONY YANG, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
DANIELLE SPINELLI, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ANTHONY YANG, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DANIELLE SPINELLI, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ANTHONY YANG, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 46
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 09-846, United States v. Tohono
O'Odham Nation.
Mr. Yang.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY YANG
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. YANG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This Court in Keene held that section 1500
of Title 28 deprives the Court Of Federal Claims has
jurisdiction when the plaintiff has a pending suit in
another court based on substantially the same operative
facts and left open the question whether some overlap in
the relief requested is also necessary to trigger that
bar. The Federal Circuit erred in holding that section
1500 applies when both suits -- only when both suits
seek the same relief, and that the critical distinction
in this regard is whether the particular relief in the
plaintiff's plea for relief is deemed legal or
equitable.
Section 1500's text broadly bars CFC
jurisdiction whenever any suit that the plaintiff has
pending in any other court is a suit for the CFC claim
or is merely a suit in respect to that claim. In other
words, another suit for a different but a related claim
will trigger section 1500.
That provision was intended to protect the
government from simultaneous duplicative suits against
the United States and its agents by forcing plaintiffs
to elect between those related suits.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you recognize that
sequential suits could be brought. So that if the case
in the district court went to final judgment, then it
would be okay to go to the Court Of Federal Claims.
MR. YANG: That is correct. In some, in
perhaps a good number of cases, it's possible to, if you
are seasonably prompt in your Court Of Federal Claims
case or your district court case first -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you don't have
control over how long the district court case is going
to take, and there is no mechanism to stop the running
of the statute of limitations.
MR. YANG: Well, I think there is some
control that you can exercise over the -- how promptly
the suit proceeds. Particularly if we are talking about
suits against the government, many suits proceed on an
administrative record and go directly to summary
judgment; that can be done in a relatively prompt
manner.
But even if not, the Congress that enacted
section 1500 in 1868 knew that essentially what it was
doing in many, many cases would prevent a second suit
from going forward. That's because the Congress was
concerned with the cotton claimants. The cotton
claimants had authorization to bring suit in the Court
of Claims, but there was a two-year statute of
limitations. That statute ran from the end of the Civil
War. And this Court in a case called U.S. v. Anderson
at 76 U.S., and the relevant pages are 70 to 71, made
clear that the end of the Civil War for the purposes of
that statute was August in 1866.
Congress enacted section 1500 in June of
1868. There was a two-month window, if that, to bring
suit and Congress recognized, it would have recognized,
that if you filed suit or were forced to elect at that
point, that would be the end of the game.
There was also another statutory provision
that Congress enacted during the Civil War that put a
two-year statute of limitations on suits against
officers. That was discussed in this Court's decision,
Mitchell v. Clark, 110 U.S. 633 at pages 641 and 642.
So given the time at which Congress was
enacting section 1500, it knew it was putting plaintiffs
to a very hard choice. You had to elect between the
Court Of Federal Claims remedy and between a remedy in
another court against an officer. That remedy would
likely be the end of the game. And Congress did that in
a very particular way. It did it in a targeted statute
that limited the authority of the court that had its
hands on the purse strings of the Federal Government,
and that performed the very function that Congress just
a few years earlier had itself exercised through the
enactment of private bills through its appropriations
power.
So section 1500 ultimately states in essence
that if you are going to bring suit in this specialized
court where Congress has vested the Court of Claims with
the very special power of distributing money from the
Federal fisc, that you could only bring one suit arising
from the same operative facts in order to be in that
court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that's -
you just -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In the cotton cases, why
isn't my reading of it quite very simple, which is
Congress was concerned with ensuring that a claimant
didn't get double-recovered in two different suits.
MR. YANG: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't that a simple -
you know, you've got people suing in different
jurisdictions over getting the same pot of money or
something close to it. Why isn't our view of 1500 just
simply you can't have two suits that are seeking the
same pot?
MR. YANG: Well, it wasn't the same pot of
money. The Abandoned and -- Abandoned Property
Collection Act -- we will call it APCA -- provided for a
special statutory trust remedy. That remedy was for the
net proceeds of anything -- any -- any auction sales
that might have resulted from cotton. If the cotton was
lost, it was damaged, it was destroyed, if the proceeds
were paid but ultimately didn't make their way into the
fisc, you got nothing or you got a substantially reduced
fund. If you sued in court, you might be able to sue,
as we explained in our reply brief, under certain
doctrines that would give you the property in specie, or
you could seek monetary relief. These are quite
different things. And even in -- it's not -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you couldn't get
both. I mean, that's I think Justice Sotomayor's point,
about duplication. It's not -- even if you can say,
yes, it's a different mode of relief, but you could -
couldn't get -- I mean, suppose we didn't have 1500 and
you prevailed in your suit on the APCA or whatever you
call the statute. You could not then turn around and
sue the government official, because you have the -- the
single claim, you've been compensated.
MR. YANG: I don't know -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's not here -- it's
quite different. I mean, one suit is not precluded by
the other. You -- you recognize that by saying you
could bring the Claims Court suit after the district
court suit. That's not so in -- in the cotton cases.
MR. YANG: You may in certain instances.
But particularly in the cotton cases, Congress knew that
it -- what it was doing was forcing one path and only
one path. It wasn't about duplicative recovery. You
had to choose and you not -- you weren't going to have
time to bring another suit, and Congress would have
known that when it enacted the section 1500's
predecessor two months before the statute ran in APCA
and perhaps after the statute ran for bringing a tort
suit against officials under the cases -- the statute
that this Court construed in Mitchell.
So it wasn't simply that duplicative relief
was at issue, Congress was actually forcing you to make
a choice in cases where the types of relief are quite
different. And the type of relief, for instance, that
you would get in a suit against an agent of the United
States, what you get out of that suit is not a pot of
money; the court does not say at the end of the case,
here you go, you asked for $1,000, here it is. The
court enters an order; it enters a judgment. It says,
"Defendant, perhaps Tony Yang, officer of the
government, you pay $100 million, $50 million."
It doesn't mean much to the plaintiff if
they get at Tony Yang as an individual. This is very
different relief than a money judgment against the
United States. It's not the same relief. And in fact,
we don't normally think of a claim as embodying a
particular type of relief, which is the submission of
the trial here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I -- I'm not sure I
understand your answer to my question. Assuming you had
a recovery under the -- for the -- confiscated cotton,
under the one route you had a recovery. You could not
sue again under the other route without -- leaving aside
1500, because the claim would be precluded.
MR. YANG: That might have been true in one
direction but maybe not in the other. And let me
explain. The -- I'm not sure that there was an instance
of this happening because of section 1500's existence,
but if you had, for instance, obtained damages against
an individual agent in a suit and you still could have
brought suit within the Abandoned -- Abandoned Property
Collection Act, the Abandoned Collection Property Act
provided a statutory trust for the owner of the cotton.
It's not at all clear that that would have been
precluded. There may well have been, but for the
statute of limitations problem, the ability to get a
double recovery.
But nevertheless, I mean, our submission
ultimately turns on our understanding of the text of
this statute, which is quite broad. The text not only
precludes -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it's
not -- it's not as broad as your test, "arising out of
the same operative facts." It doesn't say that; it says
"any claim for and respect to which." And it seems to
me that the facts of this case draw that precise
distinction. When you are asking for an accounting, you
are not raising any claims about people doing anything
bad at all. You are just saying, let me know what I've
got. And then when you bring a claim for -- for money
because of mismanagement of the trust, that's -- that's
quite different.
MR. YANG: I -- that's -- that's true in
some cases of an accounting. It's not true on these
complaints. The complaints here are -- they have the
sense of a kitchen sink type of a pursuit of these
claims against the United States. The district court
case is not simply seeking an accounting of old money,
as the Tribe submits. It actually alleges a whole slew
of breaches, including the breach to -- to -- of failure
to invest money properly, failing to put it to its
highest use, says the true balances would be far greater
but for these breaches.
It specifically seeks a -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that -- is that
to assert the basis about why an accounting should be
required?
MR. YANG: No, because back -- the counts -
these are back on pages 90 and 91a of the petition
appendix. The Tribe not only seeks an accounting, but
it also seeks an order to comply with all other
fiduciary duties determined by the court. This is
paragraph 42.
It goes on to say that the tribe is not only
entitled to object and essentially challenge the
accounting, but it's entitled to any other equitable
relief that might be appropriate in light of the -- the
court's decision in the case.
So the tribe is in no way trying in the
district court simply to seek an accounting. Just like
in the Court of Federal Claims, it's not simply looking
to what they claim to be new money. The specific
allegations in the CFC complaint say that there has been
no money for the -- no accounting for the revenue
collected.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what is the -
maybe I don't know enough about what an accounting is.
But why would it be other equitable relief to which they
are entitled if they simply say, we want to know what
we've got?
MR. YANG: The tribe -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And they can get -
and then it may be a basis for a further claim that, if
that's all we've got, where did the rest of it go, and
that might be the Court of Claims action. But it does
strike me that they are different -- claims for
different relief.
MR. YANG: It -- it should be that way if
there were a narrowly tailored APA-type-like suit in
district court, but that's not this. The tribe's
complaints both invoke, for instance, the Cobell
litigation which has been going on in -- in D.C. for
quite some time, and are modeled on the same types of
broad claims that are at issue at Cobell.
This is not a simple case where there is
agency action withheld and a court says: Agency, you
had X duty; do it. This is a -- a situation where the
tribe is seeking to impose itself on age-old decisions
that have been made a long time ago and to seek to
revisit them and at the end of the day restate their
accounts to reflect what they think should be in the
trust fund.
This parallels in both the Federal
Circuit -- the Court of Federal Claims and the district
court suit. There is substantial overlap in the
operative facts. As the two judges -- the only two
judges to have addressed this -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it accounting
what should have been in the trust fund or what actually
is? You say give me an accounting of the trust fund.
Does the officer go back and just add up the bank
accounts and value the land and all that? Or -
MR. YANG: Well, there's a difference -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- does he go back
and say, well, this should be there but it's not?
MR. YANG: The -- there is a difference
between the parties, and I don't think it's been fully
fleshed out here, about what an accounting is. The
statute at issue that the tribe invokes for the
accounting in our view provides a prospective obligation
for the government to provide quarterly statements of
what's coming in and out of the account going forward.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Going forward.
MR. YANG: Going forward, not going back,
and only with respect to moneys that were deposited or
invested under a specific statutory authority that
involves deposits that were made in banks. So in our
view -- you know, our view and the tribe's view I think
are quite different in terms of what's at issue in the
district court case. And unfortunately, that's not the
case that's before you here. But what we're trying to
do is say whether or not there is substantial overlap
between the two. And -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, are you at
cross-purposes on those two issues? When it comes to
what an accounting is, you want to say, oh, that's just
going forward; when it comes to this 1500 question you
want to say they're the same as the money damages, which
goes backward?
MR. YANG: No, I don't think we are at
cross-purposes. What we are saying is what the
complaint alleges. We don't control how the tribe seeks
to assert rights. We think that the complaint may be
overbroad, but that's not the correct question.
I mean, this Court in Keene, for instance,
addressed suits which had been dismissed because they
were improperly brought in district court, and those
suits in district court were sufficient to trigger
section 1500's jurisdictional bar simply because they
were asserting claims that overlapped with the claims
that were at issue in the CFC.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you read the claim in
section 1500 the same way that it should be -- or do you
think we should read it the same way in 1500 and
12(b)(6), failure -
MR. YANG: I think so. I mean -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Whether or not you've
stated a claim upon which relief can be granted?
MR. YANG: Right, which draws a distinction
between the claim and the relief, right? If relief were
the particular type of relief, as the tribe asserts, the
rule would simply say "failure to state a claim,"
because you would have failed to state a certain
element, a necessary element, of the claim. Instead, it
says "failure to state a claim upon which relief can be
granted."
And I think that -- that keys into the other
important provision of rule -- the Civil Rules for this
purpose, which is Rule 54(c), which makes clear that the
relief that might be initially stated in a complaint is
not the relief that is at issue in the case.
The relief that comes at issue in the case
is the relief that the -- that is proven, whether it be
at summary judgment or at trial. And even if, for
instance, you ask for a dollar in damages in your
complaint, it may well be that at trial you establish
your entitlement to injunctive relief or damages far in
excess.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But not so, not so here,
because of the way Congress has set up the authority of
each court. You could never -- what is it, 54(c) or -
MR. YANG: (C).
JUSTICE GINSBURG: 54(c) is the relief to
which you were entitled. The only relief to which you
were entitled in the one court, the Court of Claims, is
compensatory damages. So there isn't a question of some
other form of relief. You have to go to another forum
to get different relief.
MR. YANG: Well, yes and no. The district
court complaint, for instance -- and again, we contest
this, but they seek a restatement of their accounts.
They seek remedies such as equitable disgorgement and
the like. These are monetary remedies that go, again,
to the same types of issues.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But I also thought that the
Court of Claims could give -
MR. YANG: All of these claims could be
brought -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Could be brought -
MR. YANG: -- in the Court of Claims.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They can give injunctive
relief where that's necessary.
MR. YANG: That's correct, but if you have a
claim, for instance -- taking the old money/new money
framework, which we don't think is borne out by the
complaints, but even if we were correct, if they were
seeking so-called old money in district court -- that
is, money that should have been there, but was
improperly allocated and therefore didn't show up in
their account -- they could also bring a claim under the
Indian Tucker Act claiming that there was some breach of
duty under a statute or regulation, clear and -- this is
a Navajo Nation-type question -- and you could get an
accounting through -- in order to determine the proper
amount that should be there.
So this is a way -- the problem that we have
here, particularly in these cases where there's an
allegation of 100 years of trust duties going back, and
simultaneously litigating these cases in courts that
might have different views on discovery obligations,
different views of the law on various point cases.
One of the cases that we cite in the
appendix to the petition, the Ak-Chin case, the CFC
ordered discovery, for instance, that we have to conduct
a review of 33,000 boxes of materials from the archives.
Although we claim there is an APA case going on in
district court, the plaintiffs are seeking discovery
there. We are fighting it. But this type of
duplicative legislation and burden on the government is
precisely what Congress in 1868 said: If you are going
to bring suit -
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any instance
you've been able to think of where an Indian tribe could
have a claim for money of some kind and some other kind
of relief that they seek where they couldn't get it all
in the Court of Claims?
MR. YANG: A declaratory judgment, for
instance. Some -- many -- some of these cases arise -
JUSTICE BREYER: Declaratory judgment. Is
there anything else?
MR. YANG: Um -- well, I mean, you wouldn't
be able to get injunctive relief.
JUSTICE BREYER: No injunctive relief.
MR. YANG: Not normally in the Court of
Claims. There are exceptions.
JUSTICE BREYER: No matter what. Okay.
Well, then they have a problem, because they might want
-- they might want some money and they want an
injunction. So what are they supposed to do?
MR. YANG: There is no question that section
1500 may put a plaintiff at a difficult choice.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's a big choice.
MR. YANG: It's a choice that has existed
since 1868, when Congress -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: To test that choice -
it's pretty stark in the Casman case, where Congress
said back pay is for the Claims Court, reinstatement for
the district court.
But your position is that under your reading
of Casman -- let's forget about Congress's amendment.
Under your reading of the statute, the Casman decision
was wrong and the plaintiff had to choose either back
pay or reinstatement; there was no way to get both.
MR. YANG: That's correct. And I think that
was this Court's suggestion at the end of Keene, when
the Court recognized that because there are complicated
jurisdictional regimes that apply when you sue the
government, the Court explained there may well be
situations where this precludes a plaintiff from seeking
all the relief that you would otherwise be able to get
if you could bring suit separately.
And the Court in Keene said: Look, if there
is apparent hardship -- this is following its decision
in Corona Coal, which is 1924. If there is a hardship
in the statute, it is a question that must be directed
to Congress, because Congress is the one that set this
up, this jurisdictional limit. And the jurisdictional
limit that existed in 1868, remember, was a very
difficult choice.
JUSTICE BREYER: Your basic point is this:
You're just saying it's too bad, go to Congress. But
you don't deny the basic point, which is that an Indian
tribe may think the Bureau of Indian Affairs has really
mismanaged everything and what they would like is some
money, and also they want an injunction so they won't do
it again.
And now your view is, it's true, there is no
way they can get that, because they have to go to two
different courts, and really in your view they can't go
to two different courts, period.
MR. YANG: Well, let me qualify -
JUSTICE BREYER: And hardship is definite.
It's just you are saying, that's what Congress wanted.
MR. YANG: The hardship may be there. The
hardship is less now than it was in 1868 because of the
language of the statute -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why isn't it just as bad as
what I just said?
MR. YANG: Because you might be able to
bring, for instance, an APA suit that completes before
the six-year statute of limitations ends. And frankly,
we don't think that that's an unusual thing, for an APA
action to be brought promptly, even with an appeal. APA
actions, again, if it's limited to the administrative
record as they should, you can go straight to a summary
judgment-like procedure -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You have to extend a case
that I didn't agree with when it came out. You have to
extend Bowen in order to achieve that. Does the
government want to extend Bowen?
MR. YANG: No, no. I'm not suggesting that
that was a proper suit. But what you could do is you
could pursue it and it could complete and still be -
there would still be time to bring a suit in the Court
of Federal -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You could complete it to a
denial of recovery?
MR. YANG: Perhaps, that's right.
We think these suits -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think that's any
comfort to the Indian tribe, do you?
MR. YANG: Well, but that's precisely what
they are seeking to do here, and we just disagree
whether that relief is available in district court. And
the question here is whether you can simultaneously
pursue it.
Let me be clear. These cases in our view
should almost all be brought normally in the Court of
Federal Claims. These cases are seeking money for past
actions and that's precisely what the Court of Federal
Claims should address.
However, a number of plaintiffs like to try
their hand at more than one court and they bring
simultaneous suits, just as Tucker -- the cotton
claimants did in the 1860's, where Congress provided for
a general statute, very broadly worded. It applies to
any claim for and in respect to which any suit or
process is pending in any other court against the U.S.
or any person acting or professing to act as its agents.
It's a very broad statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not -- I mean,
you are putting a pejorative spin on what they are
doing, saying, you know, many plaintiffs like to take a
chance in more than one court. But your response to
Justice Breyer suggests that that's a tough choice if
you have to choose between injunctive relief or damages.
That's not them trying to, you know, get the same -
take two bites at the apple.
MR. YANG: In some cases, it's is a tough
choice. Casman would have been a very difficult choice.
But as this Court suggested in Keene, the question goes
to Congress, and when Congress addressed the question it
decided relief of that sort should be brought all in the
Court of Claims.
But in this case, this is not a case where
we think particular hardship would be had, because the
tribe could pursue its claims in the Court of Federal
Claims and probably should be doing that if it simply -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why isn't our rule
simply -- what is so wrong with a rule that says if you
can bring it in the Court of Claims you have to, but if
there's relief that you can't secure there you can have
two lawsuits? What is so irrational about that?
MR. YANG: Well, that doesn't square -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If there is no double
recovery possible.
MR. YANG: But that doesn't square even with
the history of what Congress is trying to target. The
relief that was available in the Court of Claims in the
1860's in the Abandoned Property Collection Act was a
very limited -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We have already gone
through that because most of those claims would have had
some element of double recovery, that might have
precluded a second action. The point that I raised was
if there is a chance of potential double recovery, you
can't breach, what's wrong with that?
MR. YANG: I don't think it squares with the
text of the statute, which is broader than, doesn't
provide for a claim, it doesn't provide for relief, it
doesn't speak to double recovery. If Congress was
intending to target that specific problem it could have
done so in a much direct manner.
Mr. Chief Justice, I would like to reserve
the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Yang.
Ms. Spinelli.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DANIELLE SPINELLI
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. SPINELLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Two suits are for or in respect to the same
claim under Section 1500, only if they stem from the
same operative facts and seek duplicative relief. And
in response to the Government's argument, I would like
to explain why that's the best reading of Section 1500's
text, as well as the only reading that harmonizes
Section 1500 with the overall jurisdictional and
remedial scheme.
Congress has made a broad range of remedies
available to Plaintiffs wronged by the Government. And
it's directed Plaintiffs to seek certain remedies only
in the Court of Federal Claims, and certain remedies
only in the district court.
The Government's reading of Section 1500
assumes that Congress intended to penalize Plaintiffs
for following that direction by barring them from the
only forum where they can obtain money damages. But
nothing in the statute's text or history suggests that
Congress intended to create such a nonsensical scheme.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Your argument assumes that
there is available in the district courts injunctive
relief under the Administrative Procedure Act, and that
is far from clear, even after Bowen, it's far from clear
if you had any business being in the district court
anyway. And so in a way we are resolving a very strange
question, that is if as is not clear, you have a right
to sue in the district courts for an injunction, can
that suit proceed because of 1500 when there is a suit
pending in the Court of Claims and that is sort of an
abstract question.
MS. SPINELLI: Justice Scalia, it is
disputed whether or not the district court has
jurisdiction to entertain the Nation's claims there.
The Government has a move to dismiss on that ground,
that motion is pending. We don't believe that the
district court's jurisdiction over the claims raised in
the district court is a question that this Court needs
to face. Rather, the question here is whether the Court
of Federal Claims has jurisdiction over the claims
brought in the CFC. And that turns not on whether the
district court has jurisdiction, but on whether
duplicative relief is sought in both suits.
JUSTICE BREYER: The main thrust that I was
raising was does this really get the Tribe into trouble?
They have to forego one kind of relief for another. So
what about injunctive relief, that's what he thought of,
and Justice Scalia raises the point, well, they are not
going to be entitled to injunctive relief anyway because
the APA doesn't provide it, if I understand that
correctly. So you are giving up the null set. You were
giving up the null set.
MS. SPINELLI: No, not at all,
Justice Breyer. First of all, we would contest that we
are not entitled to the relief that the Nation sought in
the district court. We believe that the Nation is
entitled to that relief.
JUSTICE BREYER: But it couldn't get that?
MS. SPINELLI: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: It couldn't get that kind
of relief in the Court of Claims?
MS. SPINELLI: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, it could.
MS. SPINELLI: No, no, no. You are right
that it could not. The relief that is being sought in
the district court is primarily an accounting. An
accounting is inherently an equitable remedy, a remedy
that under trust law the trustee owes to the beneficiary
to provide the beneficiary with all the information
necessary for him to protect his rights.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Isn't it well established
that part of the jurisdiction of the equity court when
it requires an accounting is to give damages for breach
of the trustee's duty? That's Hornbook.
MS. SPINELLI: That may well be the case,
Justice Kennedy, in common law trust suits. That wasn't
requested -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, I'm talking about
historically in equity. No. Historically in equity the
trustee who breaches the trustee's duty in the equity
court is required to give damages.
MS. SPINELLI: You are correct that
normally, that in the past -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's not common law, it's
not common law, it's equity. It's old law, it's equity.
MS. SPINELLI: Correct. You are correct
that in the days of the divided bench suit for breach of
trust were brought in equity. I don't think we need to
parse that finely here, because the question here is
whether or not the Tribe has sought duplicative relief
in both courts.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that unrealistic?
You don't want an accounting for the sake of having an
accounting so that you can put the accounting in your
desk. Oh, look it, they stole $1,000,000,000 from us.
You want to get the $1,000,000,000. If the suits are
directed at the same object, and it is fanciful to think
there is this separate suit for an accounting. The
object of that suit is the same thing as the object of
the suit in the Court of Claims.
MS. SPINELLI: With respect, Justice Scalia,
that is not the case. The accounting has enormous
benefit entirely apart from any monetary relief that it
might ultimately lead to. The Nation, as well as other
tribes who have brought these kinds of suits, lack basic
information about what they own, what the metes and
bounds of their lands are, what leases have been
granted, how long they last, what easements and rights
of way have been granted over their land, what the
status is of their mineral rights and timber rights.
All of this is information that the Tribe needs and that
Congress recognized in the Indian Trust Fund Management
Reform Act that the Tribe needs in order to exercise its
Federally granted right to decide how it's assets are
best managed, and the longer that that accounting is
delayed, the more the Nation is harmed by the inability
to do that, the inability to decide whether certain
funds should be withdrawn from trusts held by the United
States, the inability to decide whether it should bring
claims against third-parties. So there's real value to
the accounting that's entirely separate from any
monetary relief. And the accounting is not sought in
the Court of Federal Claims. The Court of Federal
Claims has long held that it lacks jurisdiction to grant
that kind of pre-liability historical accounting.
Although -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can you get the
accounting in conjunction with the claim of damages?
Maybe the Court of Federal Claims, you can't go there
and say, look, I want an accounting, but you can say I
have been wronged over the century and I would like to
find out to what extent, and before you can figure that
out you actually have to have an accounting. Can't the
Court of Federal Claims get an accounting in that
context?
MS. SPINELLI: The Court of Federal Claims
can order something called an accounting in aid of
judgment. Despite the similar terminology, they are not
at all the same. An accounting of the type that's being
sought in the district court is a remedy by itself.
It's a remedy that the beneficiary is entitled to once
its received or denied, that's a final order that can be
appealed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. It's a
remedy, but is it terribly different from what the
accounting the Court of Federal Claims would order to
figure out how much -
MS. SPINELLI: It is because it requires the
trustee to provide all information about the trust that
might be relevant to the beneficiary, and it does so
without requiring the beneficiary to prove any
mismanagement. By contrast -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Were those accountings
available before the Administrative Procedure Act was
passed? Is the jurisdictional basis for that the waiver
of sovereign immunity that allows you to demand an
accounting from the United States? Is that just the
APA?
MS. SPINELLI: The waiver of sovereign
immunity that is being asserted in the district court is
the APA, that's correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What about this -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you didn't have a right
to that before the APA was passed?
MS. SPINELLI: In the district court, no.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Either in the district
court nor in the Court of Claims. So this is not an
unthinkable situation, is it?
MS. SPINELLI: It's a little bit more
complicated -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It was thought about for a
century, anyway.
MS. SPINELLI: It's a little bit more
complicated than that because prior to -- prior to the
Court of Federal Claims in its current incarnation,
certain claims for an accounting could have been brought
before the Indian Claims Commission, but -- I mean
that's going a little far afield. The -- at any rate
Congress has now recognized specifically by statute that
this is something that Tribes need, and that's the right
that the Nation is seeking to enforce in the district
court action.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why have -- you say
Congress has specifically recognized it by statute.
You're referring to the APA?
MS. SPINELLI: No, I'm referring to the 1994
Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act, which
specifically required the Department of the Interior to
provide Tribal beneficiaries with certain statements,
certain accountings regarding their -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But did not provide for a
lawsuit against -- against the government.
MS. SPINELLI: They did not -- they did not
expressly do so, no.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: When you are in the CFC,
don't you get -- you aren't you asking for compensation
for losses and injuries from the commingling or the
misappropriation of assets?
MS. SPINELLI: No, Justice Kennedy, in the
Court of Federal Claims, as a close reading of the
complaint will show, the Nation is requesting four
specific kinds of relief. First it's asking for damages
from the United States' failure to lease its mineral
rights for fair market value. That's count 1. Count 2
is seeking damages from the United States' failure to
obtain fair market value for leases of its land. Count
3 is seeking damages from the United States' failure to
invest judgment funds in a timely way and to obtain the
maximum interest rate; and count 4 asserts a similar
claim for damages with respect to the trust fund.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But your brief makes the
-- seems to make the point that that's all just interest
on capital. It's not for lost capital. But even as you
described it, it sounds to me that you get damages for
loss of capital plus interest.
MS. SPINELLI: It's -- it's not just
interest, you are correct. I mean, maybe if I give an
example this will make things a little bit clearer. Say
that the government sold a stand of timber belonging to
the Nation for $20, even though the stand of timber was
worth $40. It then deposited it into the trust account,
$10.
The suit in the district court seeks an
accounting and a restatement of the accounts and to the
extent appropriate and available, equitable restitution
of the $10 that was missing from the account.
The suit in the CFC seeks to recover the $20
that the United States should have earned, had it acted
as a prudent fiduciary when it was selling the stand of
timber. And the Nation is entitled to both sums of
money, but they are different, and because the money
sought in the two courts is different, the relief is not
duplicative.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: My problem is that I read
the CFC complaint as including both. I will take a look
at it. And I intruded on Justice Breyer's question.
JUSTICE BREYER: What I'm trying to work out
still in my mind, is if you say, look, Indian Tribe:
You have to go to the court of claims, period. Period.
You can't go to these other courts, I mean unless you
give up the court of claims. Is the Indian Tribe going
to really lose something it needs?
MS. SPINELLI: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know you think yes. I
realize that.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: And, what I want to ask you
about -
MS. SPINELLI: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- is in section 2 -
MS. SPINELLI: I apologize.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- of 1491 there is a
sentence which says, about the court of claims, in any
case including the 1505 Tucker Act, the court shall have
the power to remand appropriate matters to any
administrative or executive body or official with such
direction as it is may deem proper and just.
Now that seems awfully broad, so I'm
thinking now, if they want money, they can get the money
from the court of claims. If they want something like
an injunction, they could ask the court of claims, tell
the executive branch to behave the way we think they
have to under the law and there's your authority.
MS. SPINELLI: Justice Breyer -
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm just quoting. Now
what's -- I want to know the response.
MS. SPINELLI: Justice Breyer, you're -- you
are exactly right about what 1491(a)(2) provides, but it
also provides that any such relief can be ordered only
as an incident of and collateral to a judgment of a
claim of which the Court of Federal Claims otherwise has
jurisdiction.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you want money; that
causes the problem. If you don't want any money, you
don't have a problem. You Just forget about it.
MS. SPINELLI: And notwithstanding this
language -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MS. SPINELLI: -- the court of claims has
continued to hold that it lacks jurisdiction to grant an
equitable pre-liability accounting. All that it can do
is after liability for certain acts of mismanagement has
been proven, calculate damages for those specific acts
of mismanagement. Now -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure I
understand. You could not bring in the court of claims
the old money claims, and why? That the government
mismanaged -
MS. SPINELLI: Well, two -- two things,
Justice Sotomayor. We believe that the Nation could not
bring the old money claims in the Court of Federal
Claims because it has held repeatedly that it lacks
jurisdiction to grant an equitable accounting. However,
I don't believe the answer to that question matters,
because the issue here is not -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It does, because why
couldn't you simply have said, they owe us that original
extra 10 bucks -- $10, and we want it? What -- what -
MS. SPINELLI: Dividing -- well, it is clear
that the accounting sought in the district court
couldn't have been obtained in the court of claims. And
it made sense to seek the old money as the court of
appeals called it, in conjunction with the accounting,
because the accounting is what should reveal what is
missing from the account. And that's the reason, and
not for any manipulative or forum-shopping purpose, that
the Nation split its complaint the way it did.
Now to be sure, there is some fuzziness
about the jurisdictional line between the Court of
Federal Claims and the district court. There is no
doubt about that. The Nation did its best to negotiate
that and filed its complaints in good faith. We believe
that that question doesn't need to be addressed by this
Court, because the only question section 1500 asks is
whether the two suits are for or in respect to the same
claim, by which we think it means are they for or in
respect to the same demand for relief. Here -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The government says the
statute is simple. It says you can't have two suits
simultaneously, or you can't when the CFC suit is the -
the second one.
And Mr. Yang told me that yes, the
government thinks that in the Casman case there was a
choice, you can sue for reinstatement in the district
court, you can sue for back pay in the claims court, but
you cannot get both. And when Congress realized that
that's what was happening, Congress did not adopt a
two -- didn't bless the two-state -- two court solution.
Congress said, there will be one lawsuit. It will all
be in the claims court, and they can grant both the back
pay and the reinstatement.
So the two-suit approach was rejected, I
guess, in -- in Congress's response to Casman.
MS. SPINELLI: With respect,
Justice Ginsburg, I would disagree. I think that action
by Congress in the 1972 Remand Act strongly supports the
conclusion that Congress has implicitly acquiesced in
this construction of section 1500.
Congress -- you are right, Congress decided
not to say go ahead with your two suits in two different
courts. It thought that was too burdensome for the
plaintiff; rather it amended the Tucker Act to permit
the plaintiff to pursue both remedies in the Court of
Federal Claims. But that shows that Congress was well
aware of the Casman holding, and it did not make any
change to the statute to cast the holding into doubt,
that where two remedies are available in two different
courts, one can pursue them by bringing simultaneous
suits in the two different courts.
All that it did is make it easier for
plaintiffs in that specific situation to get full
relief. Beyond that, in 1982 -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, excuse me, it didn't
make it easier. You -- you had to bring them both in
the court of claims, no? You didn't still have the
option of -- of still bringing two different suits, did
you?
MS. SPINELLI: No, I think after -- after
the amendment -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You had to go to the court
of claims.
MS. SPINELLI: Yes. I mean, other -
otherwise that would raise a claim-splitting problem.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but if they were just
making it easier, they -- they would have said, you
know, you can do either one.
MS. SPINELLI: Well, I mean, clearly the
easier path is to have one suit. I don't think any
plaintiff wants to be forced to bring two suits to
obtain two different remedies, both of which it needs,
at double the expense and, you know, double the anxiety.
But I think what's significant about the
1972 action is that Congress did absolutely nothing to
suggest that it disagreed with the Casman holding. And
the same is true in 1982, when Congress completely
revamped the entire jurisdictional scheme, changed the
jurisdiction of the claims court very much, and yet left
section 1500 entirely untouched. And that makes sense.
I mean, just to turn to the text for a minute, the key
word, as I think this Court said in Keene, is the word
"claim."
"Claim" can mean a lot of different things.
It can sometimes mean the set of operative facts from
which a right to relief arises, which I believe is at
least implicitly what the government is saying. It can
also mean a demand for relief; for instance, in this
Court's cases regarding Article 3 standing, it's
routinely said that plaintiff has to establish standing
separately for each claim, which means for each form of
relief sought.
The reason that is the correct reading of
section 1500 is because of the nature of the
jurisdictional scheme. The Court of Federal Claims has
always been a court of limited jurisdiction. It can
only grant certain remedies, primarily money damages.
And the word "claim" in the Tucker Act and its
predecessors, from the very beginning, prior to the
enactment of section 1500, has been read by this Court
to mean a demand for relief.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That would be
inconsistent with the definition of "claim" in the
federal rules, I think.
MS. SPINELLI: Yes, I think the definition
of "claim" in the federal rules -- I think that's a
different definition of "claim." I think what we have
here is a narrower definition that was first established
in the 19th century through this Court's decisions
construing the Tucker Act and its predecessors.
Given that the word "claim" in the Tucker
Act carries that narrow meaning, it certainly makes
sense to construe the word "claim" in section 1500 as
having the same meaning.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you give it that narrow
meaning, however, the government says you are
contradicting what was the case with regard to the
cotton suits. That, in fact, some of them were asking
for funds from this -- money from this common fund, and
others were seeking relief against the individuals who
had taken the cotton or replanted the cotton. Those are
different claims, as you define "claim," anyway.
MS. SPINELLI: I don't think that is our
definition of "claim," but let me explain.
We don't dispute that certain cotton
claimants, you know, brought writs of conversion of
trespass. Some may have brought writs of replevin or
detinue seeking the cotton itself back. The relevant
fact is that the suit saying "I want my 100 bales of
cotton back" and the suit saying "I would like money to
compensate me for my loss of 100 bales of cotton" seek
duplicative relief. And -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That is different from the
word "claim." I mean, if you are hanging the whole
thing on the word "claim," you gave me a very plausible
alternate definition of "claim." But your case does not
follow that. Your case hinges on duplicative relief,
which is something quite different. I don't know any
definition of "claim" that is synonymous with
duplicative relief.
MS. SPINELLI: The word "claim" in section
1500 refers to claims over which the Court of Federal
Claims has jurisdiction, just as it does in the Tucker
Act. There is no express limitation in the Tucker Act
on the relief that can be granted. The word "claim" has
been read implicitly to incorporate a limitation on the
kind of relief that can be granted.
Therefore, in section 1500, a suit for or in
respect to a claim in the Court of Federal Claims must
mean a suit for or in respect to a demand for relief
that the Court of Claims can grant, and where
duplicative relief is being sought, that falls within
the language of the statute. It falls within the
overall jurisdictional scheme which directs plaintiffs
to bring suits for different relief in different courts,
and it also appears with cotton claimants.
The cotton claimants were seeking
duplicative relief, and that's the concern that Congress
aimed at. Congress was not faced in 1868 with a
situation in which plaintiffs had been directed to seek
different non-duplicative remedies, remedies that
weren't substitutes for one another but complimented one
another in two different courts.
JUSTICE BREYER: I had under the impression
that sometimes they sued for some money out of a fund,
which would have been partial, and other times they sued
for the value of the cotton, and other times they sued
for the cotton itself, which in certain circumstances
could have been worth a lot more. By the time of suit,
it went up. I mean, do we know it was always
duplicative in those cotton suits?
MS. SPINELLI: I believe we do know it was
always duplicative, notwithstanding the fact that the
amount that one might recover might differ.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if the amount
differs, then, why do you suppose the cotton belonged to
the Indian Tribe? On the one hand, they want an
accounting out of the money ever earned out of this
cotton in the past and on the other hand, they want what
the cotton is worth in the future on the -
MS. SPINELLI: That is not -
JUSTICE BREYER: That's Justice Scalia's
question.
MS. SPINELLI: That is not duplicative.
What is duplicative is a remedy that is either the same,
or a remedy that serves as a substitute for another
remedy. And what this Court has said, though, is that
even if it's not a completely full substitute -- even
if, say, the damages sought in one court are less than
the damages sought in another -- if they are duplicative
relief for the same injury, they are barred by section
1500. And I think that is completely consistent with
the holding in Keene.
In Keene, the plaintiff was bringing
multiple suits against the United States in different
courts for duplicative relief, money, and compensation
for funds it had paid out to asbestos claimants. And
notwithstanding the fact that it brought some of those
suits on a contract theory and some of those suits on an
equitable tort theory of indemnification, the statute
barred those. But Keene was not faced with a situation
in which the plaintiffs were forced, as in Casman, to
proceed in two different courts to obtain different
relief.
And another particularly good example is an
example of a regulatory taking suit, in which if a
plaintiff wants to challenge the legality of government
regulation affecting his property, he needs to do that
in the district court under the APA. And according to
the government, he cannot bring a suit for just
compensation in the Court of Federal Claims until that
district court suit is completed and any appeal is
completed and any cert petition is completed, by which
time the six-year statute of limitations on the just
compensation claim may very well have expired.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in your case -- now,
let's assume the government prevails. You go to the
CFC, and you prevail on everything. You get all the
findings in your favor and so forth. There is some
relief that you don't get.
I take it, unless I am missing something,
that you could then, after the CFC suit is finished, go
to district court and say: Now we want this added
protection, this added relief.
MS. SPINELLI: The reason -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And the statute wouldn't
have run generally, because if you are seeking the
injunction, it's only latches bars you, and you are not
barred by latches because you couldn't have gone sooner.
MS. SPINELLI: There are a couple of reasons
why that doesn't work, Justice Kennedy. First of all,
the Nation needs the accounting now. I mean, it's as if
in Casman, Casman had been told, well, you know, first
get reinstated -- I'm sorry -- first get your backpay;
then go get reinstated. He needs his -- the Nation
needs the accounting now, not later. In addition, if it
were the case that the accounting uncovered additional
mismanagement, this statute of limitations, the six-year
statute of limitations might well expire while the
district court suit for an accounting is pending, those
suits tend to last a very long time. Indeed in the
Indian Claims Commission they have been known to last
for up to 50 years. And it would force the Nation to
run the risk of losing its right to damages. We don't
believe that's what Congress had in mind. It doesn't
harmonize Section 1500 with the remainder of the
statutory scheme. It's not mandated by the history of
the statute, and it simply doesn't make sense.
Unless there are further questions, we ask
for the judgment be affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Yang, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY YANG
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. YANG: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
The Tribe is unable to identify a textual
basis for its same relief defense to the court of
federal claims. If it's definition of claim is as
narrow and circumscribed as it defines, it wouldn't
capture the cotton claim. Moreover, putting aside the
definition of claim, the statute applies when there is a
pending suit or process in another court. That is not
only for the claim, but in respect to the claim. That
substantially broadens the statute.
Two, there are two problems with the same
relief test that's as a practical matter. In order to
determine whether the same relief is being sought in the
other court, which is the relevant question under their
test, you have to ask, what relief would be sought in
district court. But Rule 54(c) makes clear that the
relief which is available in district court is not
specified by the complaint, it's whatever develops
through the case. So you might not know until the very
end whether duplicative relief is being sought.
Secondly, if you are going to limit the
relief that is available in the district court based on
what the court of claims' view is of the district
court's jurisdiction to issue relief, you are inviting
the court of federal claims and the federal circuit to
be opining on the jurisdiction of the district court
under the APA, in very complicated cases which involve
questions of Bowen, Utah Wilderness, this is not the way
that you would construe normally a jurisdictional
statute.
The specter of 50-year old suits proceeding
simultaneously in the court of federal claims in
district court certainly would have motivated, or spoken
to the Congress that enacted Section 1500's predecessor
in 1868.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you agree with
your friend that there are differences between the
accounting you can get in the district court and the
accounting you can get in the court of federal claims as
a prelude to monetary damages?
MR. YANG: I'm not exactly sure the
differences that they are pointing to. There are
differences in terms of the procedure and what is a
relief. The other you would have to show that there was
some kind of a breach and you get a full kind of
accounting to quantify damages that relate -- in aid of
judgment. But at the end of the day, the example,
losing $10 and you collect 20 but only debit -- put 10
on the books, that is a claim which is cognizable in the
court of federal claims if they have a money mandating
statute of regulations.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They don't even know who
has hunting leases and -
MR. YANG: That's what discovery -- that's
what discovery is for. The Ak-Chin case, for instance.
33,000 boxes of discovery we have to go through in terms
of a discovery request in the court of federal claims.
This is done -- this is the way cases normally proceed.
They do not proceed on dual tracks where the very
premise of liability in the court of federal claims is
being litigated in district court, or they are seeking
to challenge, you know, an accounting. Accounting
normally would be, you know, here's an account of
your -- your assets, but they're seeking to challenge
it. If you went back to equity, for instance. A
trustee does, as an equitable matter, have a duty to
account when requested. But the cost of the accounting
is taken out of the trust corpus. That's not what is
going on here. They are trying to seek to use the APA
to force something which we don't think is authorized
under statute as a secondary means of discovery for the
same claims that are at issue in the court of federal
claims. That type of duplicative litigation and the
burden on the federal courts is precisely what Section
1500 was intended to prevent against, and in the absence
of a textual basis for the same relief test that the
court of federal claims or federal circuit adopted here
I think is fatal to the case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the accounting doesn't
come out of the trust corpus if there is misfeasance,
the trustee has to pay the damages for that?
MR. YANG: I can't speak to that,
Justice Kennedy, that is possible. I'm just not that
versed in equity jurisprudence to be able to give you a
definitive answer.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the Loveladies
situation?
MR. YANG: In Loveladies, if I may answer.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
MR. YANG: Loveladies involved a district
court claim for a declaration that the action wasn't
taken. The district court taking declaration which was
ultimately disposed of, but at the same time that
Loveladies was seeking does assert a claim for just
compensation in the court of federal claims.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Yang,
Ms. Spinelli. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:05 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
24:1 acted 33:24 amendment 2:2,5,8 3:4,7 41:22,24 49:13
20:1 21:5 21:9 24:6 32:3 43:18,19 arises 40:5 bad 10:20 20:12
38:6 39:19 Anderson 5:10 arising 6:16 21:3
50:22 actions 21:10 36:15 50:8,11 Article 40:8 bales 41:23,25
33:17,22 addition 46:5 26:20 31:18 32:17,23 41:12 45:23
49:11,15 additional 46:6 41:16 asks 37:10 barring 25:13
11:4,12 addressed 13:13 21:9 26:21 31:4 14:24 50:17 based 3:14 47:20
12:1,5 15:2 23:8 37:9 31:7,10 32:6 asserted 31:6 basic 20:11,13
13:14,16 administrative 45:3 47:25 asserting 15:6 29:1
14:1,17 4:24 21:10 49:17 asserts 15:17 basis 11:12
27:12,13 25:19 30:25 apart 28:24 33:5 12:14 31:1 47:1
28:14,15 35:2 APA-type-like assets 29:10 49:24
adopt 37:23 12:20 32:19 49:12 beginning 40:18
adopted 49:25 APCA 7:9 8:1,18 Assistant 1:15 behalf 1:16,18
30:1,4,5 Affairs 20:14 apologize 34:22 assume 45:11 2:4,7,10 3:8
31:3 affirmed 46:19 apparent 20:4 assumes 25:12 24:20 46:23
33:20 afield 31:24 appeal 21:9 45:6 25:17 behave 35:8
agency 13:2,2 appealed 30:14 Assuming 9:16 believe 26:7 27:2
43:22 agent 9:1 10:1 appeals 36:24 auction 7:11 36:11,15 37:8
agents 4:6 22:20 APPEARANC... August 5:13 40:5 43:16
age-old 13:4 1:14 authority 6:6 46:14
ago 13:5 appears 42:25 14:7 16:11 35:9 belonged 43:20
agree 21:14 48:9 appendix 11:16 authorization 5:7 belonging 33:15
32:11 aid 30:8 48:19 apple 23:4 available 22:5 beneficiaries
33:20 Ak-Chin 18:4 22:17 47:5 30:25 33:21 beneficiary
22:20 alleges 11:5 11:23 33:21 a.m 1:13 3:2 best 25:2 29:11
25:19 29:9 14:23 35:1 37:7
32:8
38:7,13
14:5
broader 24:10 49:6 circuit 3:17 13:10 30:5,7,17 31:13
48:1 44:17 century 30:2 15:24 41:16 42:11,12
24:8 burdensome 15:19 25:8,9 12:14 15:8,14 48:23 49:5,8,20
28:8 38:12 29:13 31:22 15:16,18,20,21 49:21,25 50:18
Bureau 20:14 32:10,11 36:3 17:10,16 18:7 claim-splitting
43:12 24:11,24 29:24 Clark 5:23
19:2,8 C 2:1 3:1 16:13 48:6 37:12 40:2,3,10 15:25 17:18
21:3 calculate 36:4 CFC 3:23,25 40:17,22,25 22:8 25:20,20
26:15,25 call 7:9 8:2 12:4 15:7 18:4 41:1,5,7,16,18 25:23 36:20
34:8 called 5:10 30:8 26:12 32:16 42:3,4,5,8,10 47:14
36:24 33:23 34:6 42:14,18 45:9 clearer 33:14
capital 33:9,9,11 37:16 45:12,16 47:2,4,5,7,7 clearly 39:13
43:8,19 capture 47:4 challenge 11:21 48:22 50:14,17 close 7:4 32:21
carries 41:6 45:1 49:10,12 claimant 6:23 Coal 20:5
8:9,16 11:24 13:1 changed 39:22 44:16 collect 48:21
17:16 14:11,12 16:2,3 Chief 3:3,9 6:19 claiming 17:17 collected 12:6
20:2 21:6 18:4,7 19:12 10:13 11:11 claims 3:12 4:11 Collection 7:9
22:14 21:13 23:11,11 12:7,13 13:14 4:14 5:8 6:2,14 10:3,3 24:1
29:15 27:21 28:23 13:20 14:4,15 8:9 10:19 11:3 come 50:3
38:25 34:25 37:19 22:22 24:15,17 12:2,16,17,25 comes 14:16,18
42:24 41:11 42:5,6 24:21 29:23 13:10 15:6,6 16:3
45:10 46:6 30:15 46:20,24 16:16 17:2,3,6 comfort 22:2
39:2 50:20,21 choice 6:1 8:24 22:10,12 23:10 commingling
cases 4:13 5:4 19:7,8,9,11 23:13,14,17,25 32:18
22:21 8:24 10:25 37:20 26:5,8,11,11 31:23 46:11
18:2,3
41:13 31:25 32:5 43:12,15,20,23 46:9 47:1,6,12 11:24 19:17
38:7,8,10,10 counsel 46:20 47:23,24 48:5,6 decisions 13:4
44:15 48:7 counts 11:14 50:14,15,18 50:14,15
50:18 Congress's couple 45:24 courts 17:25 declaratory
conjunction 3:11,12,14,25 25:24 28:12 deem 35:3
16:1,7 consistent 44:11 4:17 5:7,10 6:2 38:19,20 42:24 Defendant 9:6
32:22 construction 6:3,6,14,14,18 43:7 44:15,22 defense 47:1
37:3 47:16 38:9 7:16 8:9,10,21 49:22 define 41:16
12:22 48:2 12:1,2,16,21 11:24 19:21 definite 20:23
37:8 construed 8:21 13:2,10,11 26:8 40:8 41:3 definition 40:22
contest 16:21 16:12,16,16,21 create 25:16 42:5,8 47:2,5
context 30:6 18:17,25 19:13 cross-purposes delayed 29:12
contract 44:18 20:3 21:20 22:5 current 31:21 37:13 40:7,20
31:16,20 contrast 30:23 23:13,17,25 D 3:1 denied 30:13
control 4:17,21 24:22 25:9,10 damaged 7:13 deny 20:13
conversion 41:20 26:9,10,13 27:2 14:19 16:6,8,17 32:9
correct 4:12 30:17 31:6,11 33:1,3,6,10 deprives 3:12
correctly 26:22 36:7,12,21,22 1:18 2:6 24:19 determine 17:20
cost 49:15 36:23 37:5,6,10 day 13:6 48:20 47:11
cotton 5:6,6 6:21 37:21,21,24 days 28:8 determined
18:11 7:12,12 8:10,12 38:1,14 39:1,6 debit 48:21 11:18
20:7,7 9:17 10:4 22:15 39:23 40:1,14 decide 29:10,13 detinue 41:22
22:16 41:12,15,15,19 40:15,19 42:11 29:15 develops 47:16
24:12 41:22,24,25 42:18,20 44:6,8 decided 23:9 differ 43:18
12:1,21 13:10 D.C 1:8,16,18 erred 3:17 10:15,17 13:12
16:20 17:13 2:6,9 failed 15:19
8:7 25:10,18,21,24 E 2:1 3:1,1 essentially 5:3 failure 11:6
9:10 10:23 26:4,8,9,13 earlier 6:9 11:21 15:11,18,21
14:10 27:2,12 30:11 earned 33:24 establish 16:7 32:24 33:1,3
18:1,2 31:6,11,12 32:2 43:22 40:9 fair 32:25 33:2
30:16 33:19 36:21 easements 29:4 established faith 37:8
38:11,18 37:6,20 45:3,6 easier 38:21,25 27:17 41:2 falls 42:21,22
39:2,16 45:17 46:9 39:11,14 exactly 35:14 fanciful 28:18
41:1,16 47:14,15,20,21 either 19:18 48:14 far 11:8 16:8
47:24 48:6,11 31:12 39:12 example 33:14 25:20,20 31:24
44:14,22 49:9 50:13,15 44:4 44:24,25 48:20 fatal 50:1
divided 28:8 elect 4:7 5:17 6:1 exceptions 19:1 favor 45:13
23:6 doing 5:4 8:13 embodying 9:12 executive 35:2,8 6:16 12:2 13:9
28:18 43:4 dollar 16:6 enacting 5:25 exercised 6:9 25:9 26:11
35:3 23:21 24:5,7,12 40:19 existence 9:24 30:5,7,17 31:21
doubt 37:7 38:17 ensuring 6:23 explain 9:23 25:2 40:25 42:11,18
49:2,3,4,5 dual 49:7 entire 39:22 19:24 49:8,20,22,25
duplication 7:23 entirely 28:24 express 42:13 49:25 50:18
24:25 26:14 12:10 16:15,16 21:16 33:25
15:15 17:24 33:21 36:2,14 faced 43:3 44:20 finely 28:10
28:1,6,6 44:17
41:2 general 1:15 grant 29:20 36:1 40:6 42:15 17:10 18:5,13
46:2,3 22:17 36:14 38:1 important 15:24 18:19 21:6 40:7
16:10,14 19:11 greater 11:8 inability 29:12 intending 24:13
40:21 50:9 guess 38:4 incarnation 33:11,13
44:21 17:2,7 27:19 H incident 35:16 intruded 34:7
34:12 41:9 50:7 43:23 34:6,25 invested 14:7
go 4:11,24 9:4 happening 9:24 incorporate invokes 13:25
29:25 34:10,11 20:23,25 21:1 Indian 17:17 irrational 23:19
45:11,16 46:4 harmed 29:12 22:2 29:8 31:23 13:25 14:10
goes 11:20 14:20 harmonizes 25:3 43:21 46:11 36:16 47:22
26:20 31:24 historical 29:21 30:20 judges 13:12,13
29:8 32:8 44:24 25:15 46:16 20:16 25:24 30:9 33:4 35:16
41:13 43:9 government 4:5 hold 36:1 35:7 45:22 46:19 48:20
44:16 14:2 18:10 38:16,17 39:20 17:7 18:23,24 21:12
25:7 26:6 32:13 Hornbook 27:20 26:18,20 jurisdiction 3:13
45:1,4,11 instance 8:25
15:1 16:6,21
19:23 20:8 19:21 20:3 23:7 lawsuits 23:19 32:19
25:4 31:1 40:1 44:12,13 lead 28:25 M misfeasance
39:22 44:20 lease 32:24 main 26:15 50:3
42:23 Kennedy 15:8,13 leases 29:3 33:2 making 39:11 mismanaged
27:17,22,24 49:1 managed 29:11 20:15 36:9
45:10,20,25 legal 3:21 mandated 46:16 36:3,5 46:7
4:8,16 6:19 key 39:25 legislation 18:10 manipulative 37:1 45:15
7:1,21,22 keys 15:23 let's 19:16 45:11 37:2 Mitchell 5:23
9:15 10:13 kind 18:15,15 liability 36:3 49:8 manner 5:1 8:21
12:7,13 26:17 27:6 light 11:23 24:14 mode 7:24
14:4 29:21 42:16 limit 20:8,9 47:19 market 32:25 modeled 12:24
15:8,13 48:18,18 limitation 42:13 33:2 Monday 1:9
17:1,5 kinds 29:1 32:23 42:15 materials 18:6 monetary 7:19
18:13,20 kitchen 11:2 limitations 4:19 matter 1:11 19:2 16:24 28:24
19:2,8,11 knew 5:3,25 8:12 5:9,21 10:7 47:10 49:14 29:18 48:13
21:3 know 7:2 8:5 21:7 45:8 46:7 50:22 money 6:15 7:3,8
22:1 10:20 12:8,10 46:8 matters 35:1 9:3,10 10:21
23:1,15 14:9 22:24 23:3 limited 6:6 21:10 36:15 11:4,7 12:3,5
24:3,15 34:15 35:12 24:2 40:15 maximum 33:5 14:19 17:10,13
25:17 39:12,17 41:20 line 37:5 mean 7:22,25 8:7 17:14 18:15
42:7 43:14,16 litigated 49:9 9:8 10:9 15:1 19:4 20:16
46:2 47:17 litigating 17:25 15:12 18:22 22:10 25:14
28:5,13 48:25 49:10,11 litigation 12:23 22:22 31:23 34:2,2 35:5,5
29:23 known 8:17 49:21 33:13 34:11 35:19,20 36:8
31:8,9 46:11 little 31:15,19,24 39:8,13,25 40:3 36:12,23 40:16
32:4 33:14 40:4,7,20 42:3 41:13,24 43:9
L long 4:17 13:5 42:19 43:14 43:22 44:15
34:5,7,8 lack 29:1 29:4,20 46:10 46:1 48:23
lacks 29:20 36:1 longer 29:11 meaning 41:6,8 moneys 14:6
36:13 look 20:3 28:16 41:10 money/new
36:6,11 land 13:18 29:5 30:1 34:6,9 means 37:12 17:10
37:14 33:2 looking 12:2 40:10 49:19 months 8:18
39:6,10 lands 29:3 lose 34:13 mechanism 4:18 motion 26:7
41:9 42:2 language 21:2 losing 46:13 merely 4:1 motivated 48:6
44:1,1 35:23 42:22 48:21 metes 29:2 move 26:6
latches 45:22,23 loss 33:11 41:25 million 9:7,7 multiple 44:14
48:9 Laughter 34:17 losses 32:18 mind 34:9 46:14
50:2,6,9 law 18:2 27:14 lost 7:13 33:9 mineral 29:6 N
27:22 28:5,6,6 lot 40:3 43:13 32:24 N 2:1,1 3:1
Loveladies 50:9 minute 39:25 narrow 41:6,9
28:25 obligations 18:1 5:25 18:8 22:13 40:16
32:2,22 obtain 25:14 33:2 P 22:24 25:7,8,12 prior 31:20,20
34:1 33:4 39:16 P 3:1 38:22 42:23 40:18
37:3,7 44:22 PAGE 2:2 43:4 44:21 private 6:10
obtained 9:25 pages 5:11,23 plaintiff's 3:21 probably 23:14
13:17 paragraph 11:19 please 3:10 24:13 34:5
17:8 oh 14:17 28:16 partial 43:10 18:2 20:11,13 25:19 30:25
okay 4:11 19:2 particular 3:20 24:6 26:19 33:8 48:16
old 11:4 17:10,13 23:12 position 19:15 25:25 44:22
34:13 48:4 8:12 17:23 23:22 50:6 proceeding 48:4
45:2 46:1 once 30:12 44:24 pot 7:3,6,7 9:2 proceeds 4:22
open 3:15 parties 13:23 potential 24:7 7:11,13
opining 47:24 37:21 38:2 50:4 precisely 18:11 promptly 4:21
3:7 24:19 pending 3:13,25 9:20 10:6 24:6 21:18 35:3
11:17 17:20 46:9 47:6 19:25 property 7:8,18
22:9 28:4 30:13,17 47:10 performed 6:8 8:18 48:7 45:2
49:6,11 ordered 18:5 period 20:21 predecessors prospective 14:1
43:17 original 36:18 permit 38:13 prelude 48:13 protection 45:18
overall 25:4 person 22:20 premise 49:8 prove 30:22
13:11 14:13 2:4,10 3:8 prevails 45:11 27:15 30:20
22:16 raised 24:6 26:8 41:11 47:15,18,20,22 restatement
raising 10:19 40:8 remainder 24:16 restitution 33:21
15:24 ran 5:9 8:18,19 regulation 17:18 remaining 46:21 revamped 39:22
read 15:8,10 48:24 remedial 25:5 review 18:6
23:13 19:15,17 25:2,3 19:13,19 37:20 40:16 43:5,5 27:10 29:10
25:11 32:21 38:2 remedy 6:2,2,3 31:9 32:1 35:14
28:15 realize 34:16 related 4:2,7 30:16 44:4,5,6 rights 14:24
realized 37:22 relatively 4:25 remember 20:9 27:16 29:4,6,6
47:4 26:16 34:13 30:21 41:22 replanted 41:15 risk 46:13
45:19 relief 3:16,19,20 reply 7:17 6:19 10:13
14:18,25 recognized 5:16 16:1,2,3,4,8,14 28:2 32:9 48:9 50:12,19
17:19 5:16 19:22 29:8 16:15,18,19 requires 27:19 route 9:18,19
20:6 22:6 31:25 32:5 17:8 18:16,23 30:19 routinely 40:9
25:23 record 4:24 18:24 20:1 22:5 requiring 30:22 rule 15:18,24,25
28:10 21:11 23:2,9,18,25 reserve 24:15 23:15,16 47:14
36:15 37:9 recover 33:23 24:11,25 25:19 resolving 25:22 rules 15:24 40:23
44:2 43:18 26:14,17,18,20 respect 4:1 10:16 40:25
recovery 8:14 27:1,3,7,11 14:6 22:18 run 45:21 46:13
21:23 23:22 32:23 34:3 33:6 37:11,13
10:11,23 reduced 7:15 38:23 40:5,7,11 47:7 S 2:1 3:1
14:10 referring 32:6,7 40:20 41:14 Respondent 1:19 sake 28:14
refers 42:11 42:1,6,9,14,16 2:7 24:20 sales 7:11
44:23 45:14,18 rest 12:15
13:2 15:21 50:17 sold 33:15 35:22,25 36:10 stop 4:18
34:24 seeks 11:10,16 Solicitor 1:15 36:20 38:5 39:4 straight 21:11
41:10 11:17 14:23 solution 37:24 39:8,13 40:24 strange 25:22
22:1 selling 33:25 sorry 46:3 43:16,25 44:3 strings 6:7
26:3,19 sense 11:2 36:23 sort 23:9 26:1 45:19,24 50:20 strongly 38:7
30:24 39:24 41:7 Sotomayor 6:21 split 37:3 submission 9:13
32:4 46:17 7:1 23:15,21 spoken 48:6 10:9
38:24 sentence 34:24 24:3 36:6,11,17 square 23:20,23 submits 11:5
41:9 separate 28:19 Sotomayor's squares 24:9 submitted 50:20
48:25 29:17 7:22 stand 33:15,16 50:22
40:14 sequential 4:9 29:18 30:11 stark 19:12 substantially
46:16 serves 44:5 34:3 36:21 state 15:18,19 3:14 7:15 47:8
show 17:15 32:22 47:18 statements 14:2 sue 7:16 8:3 9:19
4:3 5:3,14 similar 30:9 33:5 speak 24:12 50:5 9:11 11:3 29:15 43:10,11
6:12 8:17 simple 6:22 7:1 special 6:15 7:10 31:3 32:24 33:1 sufficient 15:4
15:5,9 13:1 37:15 specialized 6:13 33:3,24 44:14 suggest 39:20
24:24 25:2 simply 7:5 8:22 specie 7:18 status 29:6 suggested 23:7
34:21 11:4 12:1,2,10 specific 12:3 statute 4:19 5:8 suggesting 21:17
38:9 15:5,18 23:14 14:7 24:13 5:9,13,21 6:5 suggestion 19:21
40:13,19 23:16 36:18 32:23 36:4 8:2,18,19,20 suggests 23:1
42:10,17 46:17 38:22 10:7,11 13:25 25:15
46:15 simultaneous 4:5 specifically 17:18 19:17 suing 7:2
49:22 22:15 38:19 11:10 31:25 20:6 21:2,7 suit 3:13,24,25
13:5 16:22 37:16 48:5 specter 48:4 37:15 38:17 8:1,7,9,10,16
18:16 single 8:4 spin 22:23 42:22 44:19 8:20 9:1,2 10:1
25:8 sink 11:2 Spinelli 1:18 2:6 45:8,20 46:7,8 10:2 12:20
41:25 situation 13:3 24:18,19,21 46:17 47:5,8 13:11 18:12
49:17 31:14 38:22 26:3,24 27:5,8 48:3,24 49:19 20:2 21:6,18,20
17:13 18:8 50:10 28:22 30:7,19 statutory 5:19 28:8,19,20,21
22:4,10 situations 19:25 31:5,11,15,19 7:10 10:4 14:7 33:19,23 37:16
33:1,3 six-year 21:7 32:7,14,20 46:16 39:14 41:23,24
43:1 45:8 46:7 33:12 34:14,20 stem 24:24 42:17,19 43:13
49:9,12 slew 11:5 34:22 35:10,13 stole 28:16 44:25 45:4,6,16
47:6 terribly 30:16 timely 33:4 trying 11:25 11:3 29:14 31:3
47:10,13 49:24 Title 3:12 34:8 49:17 44:14
6:24 7:5 text 3:23 10:10 Tohono 1:6 3:4 Tucker 17:17 unrealistic 28:13
21:25 10:11 24:10 told 37:18 46:2 22:15 34:25 unthinkable
24:23 25:3,15 39:25 Tony 9:6,9 38:13 40:17 31:14
27:22 textual 46:25 tort 8:19 44:19 41:4,5 42:12,13 untouched 39:24
29:1 49:24 tough 23:1,5 turn 8:2 39:25 unusual 21:8
38:11 Thank 24:17 tracks 49:7 turns 10:10 use 11:8 49:17
39:2,15 46:20,24 50:19 trespass 41:21 26:12 Utah 48:1
42:24 theory 44:18,19 trial 9:14 16:5,7 two 6:24 7:5 8:18 U.S 5:10,11,23
44:14,18 thing 21:8 28:20 Tribal 32:10 13:12,12 14:14 22:19
46:10 42:4 tribe 11:5,16,20 14:16 20:19,21
things 7:20 33:14 11:25 12:12 23:4,19 24:23 V
21:11 think 4:20 7:22 15:17 18:14 37:11,15,24,24 value 13:18
17:11 18:14 34:9,12 43:21 44:22 47:9,9 versed 50:7
48:14 28:18 34:15 14:9 two-year 5:8,21 22:8 47:21
35:8 37:12 38:6 trigger 3:16 4:3 type 8:25 9:13 views 18:1,2
40:23,24,25 trouble 26:16 30:10 49:21
44:11 true 9:21 10:24 types 8:24 12:24
50:1 10:25 11:8 16:25
13:8,15
34:6 45:15 7:14 10:10 34:18 35:5,6,12
13:16 17:24
50:15 Um 18:22 41:23 43:21,23
31:17 29:8 30:20 32:8
33:6,17 49:16
uncovered 46:6 wanted 20:24
26:21 36:7 War 5:10,12,20
34:1 28:1 30:20
13:5 trustee's 27:20
24:16 28:1
45:8 trusts 29:14
50:16 try 22:13
49:4 3:4 4:6 9:1,11 way 6:5 7:14
12:19 20:22,25 21:5 1500's 3:23 8:17 71 5:11
16:11 21:17,24 22:3 9:24 15:5 25:2 76 5:11
19:19 23:5,20,23 24:9 48:7
25:22 24:17 37:18 1505 34:25 9
33:4 35:8 46:21,22,24 1860's 22:16 90 11:15
48:1 49:6 48:14 49:2 50:5 24:1 91a 11:15
years 6:9 17:24 1868 5:3,15
42:3,4 $100 9:7
$20 33:16,23 2
24 2:7
09-846 1:5 3:4 28 3:12
47:3 1 1:9 32:25
36:19 48:21 33,000 18:6 49:4
24:8 41:25 4
110 5:23 42 11:19
50:21
34:23
3:11,18 4:3 50-year 48:4
6:12 54(c) 15:25 16:12
4:12,20
9:20 16:14 47:14
7:7 8:5,11
10:24 14:18 15:9,10
12:12,19 19:7 24:24 25:4
37:10 633 5:23
14:5 641 5:23
15:12,15 38:9 39:24
41:7 642 5:23
17:3,6
18:18,22 42:11,17 44:11 7
19:6,9,20 46:15 49:23 70 5:11
