IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
HENRY W. SKINNER, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 09-9000
LYNN SWITZER, DISTRICT ATTORNEY :
FOR THE 31ST JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF :
TEXAS :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, October 13, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ROBERT C. OWEN, ESQ., Austin, Texas, Appointed by this
Court; on behalf of Petitioner.
GREGORY S. COLEMAN, ESQ., Austin, Texas; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ROBERT C. OWEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GREGORY S. COLEMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ROBERT C. OWEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 09-9000, Skinner v. Switzer.
Mr. Owen.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT C. OWEN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. OWEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The issue before the Court today and the
only question litigated to decision in the courts below
is whether a prisoner's claim that seeks only access to
evidence for DNA testing may be brought in Federal court
under the Civil Rights Act.
The Fifth Circuit summarily answered that
question "no," adhering to its long-standing view that
any Federal claim that might conceivably set the stage
for a subsequent collateral attack, however removed in
time, must itself be brought via habeas. That rule so
clearly cannot be squared with the decisions of this
Court, especially since Wilkinson v. Dotson, that the
Court should reverse and remand.
I'd like to begin by describing the contours
of the Heck rule, and -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you about -
Wilkinson was a parole, parole eligibility, so it didn't
touch the conviction or the sentence, where this one
does. So the cases are distinguishable on that basis.
MR. OWEN: I -- Justice Ginsburg, the reason
that we argue our case does not touch the conviction is
that the relief that we are seeking, to have access to
the evidence for testing, if we won, if we win in
district court and we get that access, it does not
necessarily imply -- which is the language this Court
used in Heck and repeated in Dotson -- that the
conviction is lawfully invalid.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I understand that
argument, but there is the distinction of the type of
case of where the -- the one, conviction and sentence
were never going to be questioned, only parole
eligibility; where here, the discovery that you seek in
1983 is not a destination. The destination is to
further litigation that may or may not arise.
MR. OWEN: That's true, Your Honor. We -
we don't see that as a distinction that compels the
conclusion that Dotson isn't the model to follow,
because in our view, what Dotson said -- again, the
prisoners, as Justice Ginsburg says, were before the
court seeking a declaration about parole procedures that
Ohio planned to use in their cases. Those parole
procedures had been adopted after those prisoners were
sent to prison, and they complained that was an ex post
facto violation.
And Ohio argued, both in the Sixth Circuit
and in this Court, that the fact that these prisoners
expected at some point to come back to court armed with
a judgment in their favor and seek a reduction in their
sentences was enough to conclude that the case should be
within the core of habeas.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It does seem odd,
though -- and I don't want to jump into your argument
too much, because you have got planned out what you want
to tell us. It does seem odd that if your suit for DNA
testing is not attack -- an attack on the sentence, that
you asked for a stay.
I mean, if it's not an attack on the
sentence, why shouldn't that factor into our decision
not to grant a stay or to grant a stay? It's -- it's an
irony in your position.
MR. OWEN: I think it's an irony -- I -- I
accept the Court's point that that -- that that seems
unusual, but I think that the reason that the Court's
cases, at least as to the relief that we're seeking and
not the stay that the Court entered in order to hear
this case and decide the question, that the relief we
are seeking does not necessarily imply the legal
invalidity of the conviction.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, we don't grant a
stay in order to decide a question. We grant a stay
because there's a likelihood of success on the merits.
And that goes to the sentence. And now you're telling
us that your attack doesn't go on the sentence. I don't
see why we don't just lift the stay, under your own view
of the case.
MR. OWEN: No, Your Honor. I think -- if
I -- if I was understood to say that, then I -- let me
clarify.
I think that our success -- when the Court
applies the stay standard, it asks the question: What
is the likelihood of success on the merits? Success on
the merits, for purposes of our lawsuit, means getting
access to the evidence. That's -- that's what it means.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If that's all it means, we
shouldn't have granted a stay.
MR. OWEN: I don't -- I don't think so, Your
Honor, because I think once we had demonstrated that we
were likely to prevail on the merits of the case, I
think the Court was within, you know, appropriate
judgment to -- to make sure that the case didn't become
moot by Mr. Skinner's execution, because I do think that
the demonstration that we had to make was not about
whether his ultimate -- or whether, ultimately, he might
get relief from his conviction, but whether we had a
chance of prevailing on this civil rights claim that
asks for access to the evidence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that disconnects
the irreparable harm alleged with respect to the stay
and your claim that you now say -- you say now your
claim is not going to necessarily affect the -- the
sentence. The irreparable harm, if I remember, is quite
obviously the execution. But it's -- there is no
irreparable harm from your failure to get access to the
DNA evidence, unless it's linked to the sentence.
MR. OWEN: Your Honor, I -- I guess I don't
have a better answer than the one I gave
Justice Kennedy, and that is that I think that the stay
standard doesn't have to link those two things. I think
that if the Court finds that Mr. Skinner is going to die
before he can litigate his claim and it finds he has a
reasonable chance of prevailing on that claim, that's
sufficient to -- to enter the stay.
JUSTICE ALITO: In the real world, a
prisoner who wants access to DNA evidence is interested
in overturning his conviction.
MR. OWEN: Absolutely.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you deny that?
MR. OWEN: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: And isn't the emergence of
the Rooker-Feldman argument in this case an illustration
of the absurdities that pursuing the 1983 path produces?
Because habeas is not subject to claim preclusion, is
it?
MR. OWEN: No.
JUSTICE ALITO: It's not subject to
Rooker-Feldman?
MR. OWEN: No, it's not subject to those,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: But since you've squeezed
this into 1983, now have you to deal with both of those
issues.
MR. OWEN: I think that the -- the
reason that -- I think the reason the Rooker-Feldman
issue has arisen at this juncture in the case is that
the pleadings in the district court were not permitted
to -- because of the sort of -- the fact that we were
dismissed at a very early stage in the process,
essentially on the threshold of the case, there was no
opportunity to develop in full what the legal arguments
are for both sides. I -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Except that at page 18 of
the yellow brief, where you did have time to explain
your doctrine, you say a Federal constitutional issue
arose only because the Court of Criminal Appeals'
decision regarding the State law issue turned out to be
so arbitrary and unreasonable as to denying
Mr. Skinner's Federal due process rights.
Correct me if I am wrong, but I think -
MR. OWEN: No, that's -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought that's
Rooker-Feldman to a tee. Correct me if I'm wrong.
MR. OWEN: No, I think, Your Honor, that -
I -- I don't agree about the Court's reading of
Rooker-Feldman if you think that -- if the Court
believes that that would preclude it. And the reason is
this: In the Feldman case itself, the -- the plaintiffs
in that case, who were unsuccessful lawyers who are,
what, a law school graduate and an attorney who was
barred outside the District of Columbia, and were trying
to get a waiver for a requirement for taking the bar
here in the District of Columbia -- they filed a number
of claims against the application of that rule by the
District of Columbia Court of Appeals in their
circumstances.
But -- and this Court said those claims
can't proceed. Those claims challenge the application
of the law to the facts.
But this Court went on to say in Feldman -
the last paragraph of the opinion says they have also
raised other claims, and those claims are that this
rule, as authoritatively construed by the District of
Columbia Court of Appeals, is -- is unconstitutional.
It violates the Constitution. And the Court said, in
Feldman, those claims may proceed. And -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Owen, as I -- as I
read -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. What's the
rule that's arbitrary and capricious that you're
challenging?
MR. OWEN: Your Honor, the rule that we are
challenging is that when the Court of Criminal Appeals
construed the fault provision of the Texas DNA testing
statute in our case, it created a wholesale
classification that said everybody who falls into
Mr. Skinner's situation who did not ask for testing at
trial is forever foreclosed from getting testing. And
-
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me how
that's different than what Alaska did in the Osborne
case that we upheld; their procedure? I thought that
was one of the elements of the Alaska rule as well.
MR. OWEN: I think -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That if you had an
opportunity to ask for it and gave it up, that you lost.
So how are we getting to that here? And how are you
going to get past Osborne here?
MR. OWEN: I think in Texas we have -- the
difference, I think, Your Honor, is the difference
between a substantive due process claim, as I understand
it, and a procedural due process claim. That in Osborne
the claim that was being made was that the State was
denying a Federal right in denying access on that basis.
Our argument is that the Texas -- the Texas
statute was enacted to grant, essentially, protection to
a class of inmates who were -- inmates who were
wrongfully convicted and can prove that with DNA
evidence -- and then -- and then interprets that statute
in a way that needlessly chops a bunch of those inmates
out, and that that's arbitrary, at least to the extent
that it doesn't have reference to the specific facts of
the case, the likelihood of innocence, the reasons for
not doing the testing, and so on.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Osborne expressly
considered both procedural due process and substantive
due process.
MR. OWEN: But the reason, Your Honor, as
I -- as I read Osborne, that it did not reach a
decision on the procedure, or it didn't -- that it
rejected Osborne's procedural due process claim was
because he hadn't tried at State court.
I mean, that was the premise of Osborne,
was he was -- I think the Court's language in Osborne
was if he hasn't tried those procedures, he's in no
position to complain about them in Federal court,
whereas we did try the procedures, and it's precisely
that that is the basis for our claim in Federal court.
If I -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you -
MR. OWEN: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you -- one of the
criticisms by your adversary of your proposal to bring
these actions via 1983 is a prospect that the courts
will be used to collaterally attack convictions by all
sorts of due process allegations concerning discovery
disputes. Could you address that point, and why either
you agree with them that that's what is going to happen,
or if you don't, why not?
MR. OWEN: I don't agree with them, Your
Honor, and for a couple of reasons. First of all is
that experience doesn't suggest that. The rule that we
are asking the Court to adopt for the whole nation has
been the rule for some time in six different circuits,
and there's no evidence that in those circuits there
have been a very large number of prisoners going into
court under section 1983 and trying to leverage
discovery under the circumstances that are suggested by
Respondent's brief. So that's the practical reason.
As a legal -- as a legal reason, I think
that our claim turns on the existence of the liberty
interest in the State statute for DNA testing that Texas
has created, and that there is no statute in Texas for
other kinds of general discovery; for example, access to
the prosecutor's file, police reports, or other kinds of
documents. That's not -- there's no legal hook for
that.
Our legal hook is the existence of that DNA
testing statute and the existence under State law of
opportunities to bring claims of actual innocence after
the evidence is tested.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The critical
formulation in Heck, "necessarily implies," is a little
difficult. I mean, the adverb points one way and the
verb points the other. And how -- "necessarily implies"
strikes me as a little less conclusive than you seem to
think.
MR. OWEN: I think -- I think if that word
were in isolation, Your Honor, there might be more
uncertainty about what "implies" means. But if the
Court looks at the cases -- looks at Preiser, looks at
Heck, looks at Edwards, looks at Nelson, looks at Hill
-- what you'll see is the word "necessarily" is in all
those cases. And, in fact, in Hill, I think -- or maybe
it was Nelson; one of the two Florida cases -- the Court
italicizes it twice in the same paragraph. And -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you -- you
read "necessarily implies" to mean "conclusively
establishes," right?
MR. OWEN: Not that strong, Your Honor. But
to finish, the other answer I was going to say is that
in other cases -- I was going to say, "necessarily" is
everywhere. "Necessarily" is in all the cases. But the
Court also -- "implies" is not in all the cases. In
Dotson, for example, the Court uses the word
"demonstrate" -- "necessarily demonstrates" -- that the
judgment underlying the custody is invalid.
So I think that there is some -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you are asking
for an expansion of Heck from "necessarily implies" -
MR. OWEN: No, I think we are -- I think -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- to
"demonstrates"?
MR. OWEN: No, Your Honor. I think that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if "implies"
doesn't mean the same as "establish" or "demonstrates,"
give me an example of a case where the 1983 claim would
not establish innocence but would still be covered by
Heck.
MR. OWEN: I think that -- I think Edwards
is an example of that, Your Honor, where -- in Edwards,
the defendant, the prisoner, was suing in Federal court,
alleging that, in his words, the procedures that were
used to deny him -- I think it was deny him parole or
convict him of disciplinary offenses, but the procedures
that had resulted in the disadvantage he was complaining
about were unconstitutional.
But when you looked at his complaint, what
he said was this -- the reason those procedures are
unconstitutional is because the decision maker was
personally biased against me, which is less a complaint
about the procedures and more a complaint about the
merits of that adjudication. And if you believe it, if
you credit that, and say, okay, we're going to win,
fine, that's what happened, the adjudication was biased
against you, that necessarily implies the invalidity of
the judgment reached by that procedure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Necessarily implies
or conclusively establishes?
MR. OWEN: I think necessarily -- with bias,
perhaps that would be conclusively established, because
I think there's no harmlessness test there. But I think
that -- at least in an adjudication, there wouldn't be.
But I think that "necessarily implies" is all that the
Court needs to continue embracing in order to find
that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What would you do with
the Brady violation? Is that a "necessarily implies" or
is that more akin to your claim?
MR. OWEN: For a couple of reasons, Your
Honor, it's not akin to our claim. First is this:
Brady is a trial right. And I don't mean necessarily
that it arises at trial, because sometimes it arises
at -- the discovery that makes a Brady claim colorable,
you know, arises after trial. But Brady is a right to
have certain evidence when you go to trial so that you
can use it in an attempt to get the jury to find you not
guilty.
And, therefore, if that right is violated,
if you don't get that evidence and it's discovered later
that you were denied this stuff that you needed to have
a fair trial, that implies the invalidity of the trial
judgment, the judgment that results in the custody.
In our case, the judgment that we are
challenging is the judgment of the Court of Criminal
Appeals denying us DNA testing, which does not in the
same way demonstrate or necessarily imply that the
custody judgment in our case is legally invalid.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Owen, could I take you
back to Rooker-Feldman with that as the premise? You
said that what you are attacking is the judgment. I
read your complaint as having an important strand where
you were not attacking the judicial judgment, but
instead were attacking actions of the prosecutor's
office, independent of any judgment of the State courts.
Are you abandoning that part of your
complaint, or are you continuing to maintain it?
Because certainly, if you talk about the judgment alone,
it at least gets you into Rooker-Feldman territory,
whereas if you talk about the prosecutor, it does not.
MR. OWEN: I think, Your Honor, that we -
that we are in the territory of talking about the
judgment. And I think for the reasons I've described
earlier that that does not lead inexorably to a
Rooker-Feldman bar.
But I think that the nature of our claim,
which follows from Osborne, what we understood the Court
to be recognizing in Osborne, or acknowledging in
Osborne, is that the State's administration of its DNA
testing scheme is where a due process violation might
theoretically arise, depending on how it's administered.
So I think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- I don't
understand the argument you're making. Are you
challenging the constitutionality of the Texas statute?
MR. OWEN: As interpreted in our case, or as
construed, I think is the right -- is the better word.
As -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, "as construed" -- I
mean, it's their statute. I mean, you say somewhere in
your brief that -- that they gave it an arbitrary and
capricious interpretation. It's up to them how they
want to interpret it. We don't -- we don't reinterpret
State statutes because the State Supreme Court
interpreted it strangely.
It seems to me you're either challenging the
statute or -- or you don't belong here.
MR. OWEN: I think, Your Honor, we are
challenging the statute. And I think once the Texas
Court of Criminal Appeals says here is what the default
provision means, that is the same thing, for the
purposes of this Court's review, as if the legislature
had written that in. So -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Just so long as
we're clear about that.
MR. OWEN: Yes, sir. So that's what we are
challenging. I certainly agree if we were saying they
got it wrong on their own terms, that would be a
Rooker-Feldman bar, because we couldn't bring that
claim.
JUSTICE BREYER: I assume that this whole
case focuses on paragraph 33 of your complaint; is that
right?
MR. OWEN: There's been a lot -- yes, but -
I mean, I think there's been a lot of talk -
JUSTICE BREYER: And what is the "but"?
MR. OWEN: I think there has been a lot of
discussion about the allegations in the complaint,
particularly those paragraphs. I think that is maybe
missing the larger point, which is this: As we said
earlier, I think that the Federal rules permit
complaints to be notice pleading. They permit
amendment. They permit development of the issues.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, what's -- look, 33 says
the District Attorney has violated my rights under the
law by refusing to give me the DNA evidence, so make him
do it.
That's how I read 33.
MR. OWEN: That's -- that's the relief that
we're asking for, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: But not the relief. That's
your complaint.
You explain why you think it violates
Federal law for him not to do it. You ask him to do it.
Is there anything else to this case?
MR. OWEN: I think there is the
constitutionality of the construction of the statute,
because that is the basis on which the DNA -
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's why you are
entitled to the relief.
MR. OWEN: All right. Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there anything else in
the case that you want?
MR. OWEN: No. We're not asking -- no. I
mean, I think -
JUSTICE BREYER: You want the DNA evidence?
MR. OWEN: We want the evidence. That's
correct. We don't -- we're not asking this court, the
Federal District Court, to release Mr. Skinner from
custody. We're not asking them to accelerate the
release date on his sentence, for which there is none.
We're not asking them to modify the status of his
custody.
All of those things which are at the core of
habeas corpus, as this Court has interpreted that
phrase, none of those are requested by us.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you are -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but what you
say in the rest of paragraph 33 is that you want the
biological evidence because by refusing to turn it over,
he prevented you from gaining access to exculpatory
evidence that could demonstrate he is not guilty of
capital murder, which is usually what we -- what habeas
corpus is for: To show you are not guilty of what you
are in prison for.
MR. OWEN: I -- I think ordinarily, Your
Honor, if that were our -- if we knew today that this
evidence in fact was exculpatory, if they had already
done the testing and they mail us a report that says it
has excluded your guy, then we wouldn't file a 1983
action. We would seek clemency, or we would file a
State habeas petition. We would do something where the
court would have the power to -
JUSTICE BREYER: You didn't agree with what
the Chief Justice just said, did you? I noticed you
were nodding your head.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: He said, and I -
MR. OWEN: That "necessarily implies -
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, if you agree with
that, I guess there's nothing left of this case.
MR. OWEN: I think -
JUSTICE BREYER: But I -- but do you agree
with that?
MR. OWEN: No, Your Honor. I think that -
I think that "necessarily implies," as the Court
interpreted that phrase in Dotson, means somewhere down
the road you may come back to court and you may attempt
to undo your custody, and that's not enough to put this
case into habeas, that that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand. But
did I understand you to say that you -- different cases
where people are seeking the DNA evidence might come out
differently under Heck. In other words, if it's the
type of DNA evidence that could conclusively establish
he's innocent. I mean, there are types like that. It's
somebody else's, you know, DNA and that's what's
necessary for the conviction.
And there's others -- other types of DNA
evidence that doesn't. I mean, it just happens to be on
the scene of the crime and it turns out that it's not
him that was in the room, but, you know, he was
somewhere else, and it might or might not mean he's
innocent.
In the former case, do you say that has to
go under habeas, but in the latter it doesn't?
MR. OWEN: I think when we are seeking
access to evidence which has never been tested for
testing, that could be brought under 1983.
I think if the evidence has been tested and
test results exist and are known and are exculpatory,
that is a -- that's a different case and that's probably
habeas, because then it's the fact that the results are
known and we know they are exculpatory that does
necessarily imply that there's something about the
judgment that could be undone.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Owen, you're fitting
your case into our decisions about the line between 1983
and habeas. But if nobody -- if you didn't know
anything about that and you looked at what's presented
here in a civil case, it seems as though you are
splitting your claim; that is, you want discovery, and
if the discovery is favorable, then you ask for relief
from the conviction.
So it's the -- it's quite unlike I'm
complaining about prison conditions. Here, the whole
purpose of your seeking this discovery is so that you
will be able, if it turns out to be in your favor, to
apply for habeas.
MR. OWEN: The whole -- I agree, Your Honor,
that the whole purpose for seeking this evidence and
pursuing this lawsuit is so that Mr. Skinner can have a
meaningful opportunity to pursue the liberty interest he
has under State law in trying to secure release based on
innocence. That is correct. But I don't think that
leads inexorably to the idea that this lawsuit, which
is -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could you have sought
habeas? Is it 1983 is the exclusive relief, or could
you have sought habeas relief?
MR. OWEN: I think, Your Honor, that since
our allegation is that the Court of Criminal Appeals
decision denying us DNA testing, which is not the
judgment that results in Mr. Skinner's custody, is the
problem -- that's the bad, invalid judgment from our
legal theory -- that could not have been brought in a
habeas corpus proceeding, because I think that the
relief that a Federal habeas court would have available
to itself is limited to release, to accelerating release
or changing custody status. I don't think that there is
power in the Federal habeas court under that statute to
say, even though this will not affect the judgment as to
which you are in custody, I'm going to act on this way
and order this person to do that or the other thing. I
think that it wouldn't be available in habeas, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, couldn't the habeas
court say the conviction was invalid because of the
failure to turn over this -- this DNA evidence, which
was relevant to the defense and which was
unconstitutionally denied? Why wouldn't that be a basis
for setting aside the conviction?
MR. OWEN: Your Honor, this Court has never
said -- and I know the Court's aware of this; I want to
make sure I'm clear on that -- this Court has never said
that it would be a constitutional basis for habeas
relief if you could demonstrate that, factually, you
were not guilty.
So that's the claim that would have to be
brought in such a Federal habeas. It's not presently
available because this Court has never held that. And I
think, given the constraints of the Federal habeas
statute and the requirement of clearly established
Federal law from this Court, before a prisoner can get
relief, that's a necessary prerequisite for us seeking
that relief. And -- and I'm sorry. I hope that is
responsive, Your Honor.
The -- the problem, I think, with just going
to Federal court and saying give us discovery, I think
it's the same problem as described earlier with the
Brady framework. If we knew today that the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'll tell you what the
problem is. The problem is Rooker-Feldman. That's -
that's why all of these things don't make much sense. I
mean, it wouldn't happen because you had the opportunity
to raise that in the State court, and now you're
retrying what the -- what the State court did decide.
MR. OWEN: I think to the extent, Your
Honor, that the question goes to the opportunity that we
had to raise this issue in State court, that's a
preclusion issue, and there may be preclusion issues
back in the district court. We may have a dogfight over
whether or not this claim should have been raised in
State court.
But that's not the Rooker-Feldman question,
as I understand it. I think the Rooker-Feldman question
is: What are we asking the Federal court to review?
And what we are asking the Federal court to review is
the Criminal Court of Appeals' authoritative
construction of the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but that would be an
obstacle to habeas.
MR. OWEN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because in habeas you'd be
seeking to set aside -
MR. OWEN: That's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the State court
judgment. Okay?
MR. OWEN: That's right. Habeas would be -
habeas would be our only route -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's why it's so
unrealistic to analyze it that way, it seems to me.
MR. OWEN: Well, Your Honor, I think -- I'm
-- I'm not sure I agree that it's unrealistic. I mean,
I think that over time the courts who are wrestling with
this issue in the wake of Osborne will identify what
aspects of a State's statute and construction of such
statutes violate due process or don't.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why isn't it a correct
formulation of your answer to Justice Scalia to say what
we are seeking is a determination that the State court's
judgment, State court's decisions, State court's order
was a violation of due process? If you say that -
MR. OWEN: That's -- that's a much simpler
answer, Your Honor, and I will adopt that answer.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's Rooker.
MR. OWEN: That's not -- no, Your Honor, I
think, again -- and this is where we started, and I'm
not trying to -- to bring us back full circle, but I
think that our understanding of Rooker-Feldman is that
that is not one of the things that the Rooker-Feldman
doctrine prohibits. And, of course, this Court has
emphasized in recent years, in the Exxon case and
elsewhere, that lower courts have been reading
Rooker-Feldman too broadly.
Mr. Chief Justice, if I may reserve the
remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Owen.
Mr. Coleman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY S. COLEMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. COLEMAN: Good morning, Chief Justice
Roberts, and may it please the Court:
To decide this case, the Court only needs to
make two stops. First is paragraph 33 of Mr. Skinner's
complaint.
That complaint, that statement of his
complaint clearly alleges against Ms. Skinner -- Ms.
Switzer herself that she has withheld -- and the word he
uses is "exculpatory" evidence -- and violated his due
process rights through that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, he says
exculpatory evidence that could demonstrate that he's
not guilty. There's a lot of exculpatory evidence that
might imply, necessarily imply guilt, but there's a lot
of exculpatory evidence that simply is helpful and
doesn't mean it will demonstrate. He says it could.
MR. COLEMAN: There -- there are two points
in response to that, Chief Justice Roberts, and the
first is that this is the classic statement of a Brady
claim. When you file a Brady claim, you don't know
exactly what it is and whether it will definitely be
exculpatory or not. You have learned information that
makes you think that it would be, and you're able to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The substantive right in
Brady was to have that material at trial, so that it is
-- that's the substantive constitutional right. Here
the substantive right that's been identified in Osborne
is the liberty interest created by State law. And that
only happens after the conviction. So it's not quite
the same. It's not comparable.
MR. COLEMAN: I'm not -- I'm not saying that
legally that there isn't some difference to be made from
Osborne. Osborne rejected the substantive claim that
you could bring a Brady claim. What I'm saying is the
language of the text of his complaint is a Brady
allegation, and at page 19, footnote 6 of his own brief,
he acknowledges that Brady claims have to be brought in
habeas and is left simply arguing that, one, that I can
describe to the Court a different theory of my
complaint, or that regardless of how I describe the
complaint, I can break out the discovery aspects of that
complaint and do it under 1983 and not in habeas. And
part of the problem with that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: To -- to win a Brady claim
in habeas, wouldn't you -- you have to show not just
that the -- that it was withheld, but that it was,
indeed, exculpatory and could have affected the outcome
of the trial. No?
MR. COLEMAN: Yes. But that claim -- that
showing is to be made, if at all, in habeas. And he has
the opportunity -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But he doesn't have to make
that showing here. I mean, that's -- that's what he
says distinguishes this case from habeas. In habeas,
you would have to show that, indeed, it would justify a
different outcome in the trial, whereas here he says I
don't have to show that; I just want the evidence.
MR. COLEMAN: There is some ambiguity. I'm
not sure I fully understand what you mean by "here." He
has alleged that that's what he is going to prove. What
he -- what he says in his brief and what he stands
before the Court today and says I'm going to show are -
are different things.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what he is going to
do with it. But he doesn't -- he doesn't say that I
need to show that in order to be entitled to -- to the
relief I'm asking for, whereas he would have to say that
in habeas.
MR. COLEMAN: I disagree. With respect to
the relief that he is ultimately seeking, the question
is -- if you're saying that the 1983 suit is simply a
retrying of the article 64 proceeding, then I -- I would
have to concede that article 64 does not require the
same showing as a habeas claim. But part of the -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, aren't -- aren't
the -- the exculpatory nature of the evidence and its
materiality elements of the Brady claim itself?
MR. COLEMAN: Well, as -- as the Court and
your concurring opinion in Osborne made clear, that -
that "exculpatory" is really defined as demonstrating
that you're innocent and that it's material.
JUSTICE BREYER: I agree think that sounds
like -- I would interpret his complaint as what he wants
is the DNA. He thinks it's going to be exculpatory. He
doesn't know that till he gets it.
So look at Dotson. Dotson says that you go
into habeas if winning -- i.e., getting the DNA -- would
necessarily spell speedier release. End of the matter.
I'm reading to you from Justice Scalia's concurrence
where he quotes my majority with great praise.
(Laughter.)
MR. COLEMAN: Justice Scalia -- Justice
Scalia also makes the point at the end of his Dotson
concurrence that the question -- the real question is
whether you could make out this type of claim or this -
make out this type of proceeding in habeas. Ultimately,
Preiser and Heck -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, not whether you -- what
he's worried about -- he can speak for himself -- but as
I read the concurrence, he was worried that if you win
and take 1983 away, all kinds of things will be stuffed
into habeas which don't belong there. And that may be a
true and correct criticism, but whether it is or not, he
has agreed, indeed, nine members or seven members or
something of the Court agreed, that the test I read to
you is the test.
And now, if that's the test, getting the DNA
does not necessarily spell speedier release; it all
depends on what the -- on what that DNA shows. So why
isn't that end of the matter?
MR. COLEMAN: Because I disagree that the
two words "necessarily implies" are in fact sort of the
end of the battle and the end of the test.
As Justice Ginsburg noted earlier in the
argument, the Court has dealt with these issues in a -
in a variety of cases, most of them being prison
disciplinary or parole-type proceedings. And in those
cases, the Court is trying to define the outer bounds,
ultimately, of what we're going to say Preiser/Heck
required to be brought in habeas and what may be
brought. A couple of boundaries on those rules, but
first, Preiser and Heck make -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Coleman, if you could
answer Justice Breyer's question, because there are two
phrases, "necessarily imply the invalidity of the
conviction" and "necessarily spell speedier release";
and either you think that your case fits one of those or
both of those standards, or you are asking us to abandon
that standard.
MR. COLEMAN: I don't think that that's
true. I think that what the Court has always
recognized, an article 64 proceeding is a motion in the
criminal case. If you look at the docket number on the
motion, it is a motion in the criminal case.
What "necessarily implies" has always been
used for is defining the outer bounds of the rule in
terms of prison disciplinary proceedings, parole, other
things outside the criminal case itself.
This is an attack on the -- the criminal
proceeding. This is a post-conviction motion in the
criminal case itself. It's like a rule 60 -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Filed in the -- in the
court of conviction?
MR. COLEMAN: It's not only in the court of
conviction; it's under the docket number of the case.
JUSTICE BREYER: So that's a totally
different area, because in Dotson when -- I think what
we did do was go through every of these -- every one of
the prior cases, and they did involve for the most part
the attack, as you say, on prison procedure. And those
cases where the attack on the proceeding would have
restored good-time credits, there it was shortening the
-- the length of confinement.
In those cases where there was a general
attack on procedures, but the procedure would simply be
carried on better later, like parole, there wasn't. You
suddenly focused me on a whole new set of areas. Where
in the case law is this different rule that the rule we
just said has nothing to do with it, if it's in the
case? That's basically what you are arguing. What
should I read to show that you were right on that?
MR. COLEMAN: I think Preiser and Heck both
stand for the fundamental proposition that Congress set
up habeas as a means of allowing collateral attacks.
Nowhere else does Congress specifically permit
collateral attacks on criminal proceedings. Then
Preiser and Heck say what we allow from that is those
things that may be brought in habeas should be brought
in habeas because the congressional intent behind the
habeas statute is that we expect the safeguards that
Congress has put in place to respect comity and
federalism interests as well as other interests to be -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But how could this be
brought in habeas? If Mr. Skinner wants this evidence
and -- and we say you file a habeas petition, what would
that habeas petition look like?
MR. COLEMAN: Well, the habeas petition -
we know it can be brought in habeas because, one, he has
already brought it. He brought a habeas petition based
on ineffective assistance of counsel that is, as a
matter of argument, indistinguishable from the no-fault
arguments that he is making here. The complaint's
against the no-fault aspect of the article 64
proceeding.
He can bring that. Many courts -- this
Court has never fully said that you can, but many courts
do allow actual innocence-type claims to go forward, and
so he can bring an ineffective assistance habeas, he can
bring an actual innocence habeas, he can do discovery as
part of that habeas; and when he does that -- when he
does that, Congress says you must respect those criminal
proceedings. You must show deference. You must require
exhaustion.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Coleman, the habeas
statute says, 2254(a), a Federal court can entertain a
habeas petition only on the ground that the petitioner
is in custody in violation of Federal law.
Tell me how he can write a complaint that
says the violation, due process violation of access to
DNA, means that this defendant is in custody in
violation of Federal law as opposed to having had a
statutory right improperly denied him. Tell me how does
he write that complaint to get into habeas?
MR. COLEMAN: Well he -- he's stood before
the Court today and explained how he would write that
complaint, and as I mentioned to Justice Kagan -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why is he in custody
in -- in violation of Federal law? Because of the
improper -
MR. COLEMAN: Because he believed that he
received ineffective assistance of counsel and that he
can make -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's not his claim
here. His claim here is that he was denied DNA evidence
improperly under State law -- in violation of Federal -
the Federal Constitution.
MR. COLEMAN: That's correct. And the -
the last part of my answer to Justice Kagan I think is
the answer to your question, and that is if you make out
either an ineffective assistance claim or an actual
innocence-type claim, the congressional intent that you
observe and show deference and exhaustion and all those
things require that to be given to every step of the
process.
JUSTICE BREYER: In the particular -
MR. COLEMAN: But the moment you file the
complaint through discovery, through every substantive
aspect of that -- what Mr. Skinner wants to do is say:
I want to engage in artful pleading, and so I'm going to
make attacks. Today they are on DNA evidence; tomorrow
they may be a Brady claim; next week it may be a claim
against procedures used in State habeas. But as long as
I don't expressly ask that my custody be undone, I -- I
expect those claims to be allowed to go forward in 1983
without any of the protections of habeas, and then -
then if it looks after a year that they are going pretty
well, then I will flip it over to habeas and go forward
with my habeas -
JUSTICE BREYER: I see your point, but I
want to go back to try to understand this.
And we have the Dotson point, and you said
there are two other cases, Preiser and Heck. So what
Dotson says about Preiser is that the plaintiff there
wanted the shortening of his term of confinement. He
wanted good-time credits to be restored. And as we read
it then, the shortening of the term of confinement is
what made it proper in habeas. But we added that if it
hadn't been for that, if it hadn't attacked the duration
of the physical confinement, it wouldn't be habeas; it
would be 1983.
In Heck, the same thing. They were
establishing the basis for a damages claim that
necessarily demonstrated the invalidity of the
conviction. Where that was so, there would be habeas.
Where that was not so, even if successful, it would not
demonstrate the invalidity of any outstanding criminal
judgment, the action should be allowed to proceed in
1983. So as we read those two cases, they stood for the
exact principle I described.
Now, you want, perfectly fairly, to say:
But we didn't read them correctly, or we shouldn't have
read them as exclusively to say what I've just read.
Fine.
What is it, in your opinion, precisely, that
we should have the principle of distinguishing the one
1983 from habeas corpus if we were to abandon as an
exclusive test what we said, and I just read you in
those three cases: Dotson, Preiser, Heck? What's your
contrary approach?
MR. COLEMAN: I -- I think the approach is
if these things may be properly made the subject of a
habeas corpus claim, then congressional intent and the
habeas statute require that it be brought in habeas. I
think that responds -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then you are -- you are
asking for a modification of the Wilkinson-Dotson
formula, because the formula is, I think, quite clear.
It says: "Would necessarily demonstrate the invalidity
of the conviction or the sentence." Wouldn't
necessarily demonstrate, and the Petitioner is telling
us, it may not demonstrate it at all. It may
demonstrate that my client was, in fact, guilty. So it
wouldn't necessarily demonstrate the invalidity of the
conviction.
And I think to get -- to get -- to say that
you should prevail, you would have to say: Court, you
were wrong in using that formula, because here we have a
petitioner who says, I'm not claiming that what I'm
seeking would demonstrate the invalidity of the
conviction.
MR. COLEMAN: I -- I disagree with that,
Justice Ginsburg. I don't think that we're saying that
the Court is wrong. What I think I'm saying is that
"necessarily implies" is not a magic words test that is
the sort of complete and ultimate statement of the
Preiser-Heck rule, but rather -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you are asking for
something in addition. You say: Court, don't just look
at the words in Wilkinson v. Dotson. This is a
different case, as I suggested originally. This does
not involve parole. The ultimate destination in this
case is the conviction and sentence.
MR. COLEMAN: I think that that is correct,
in the sense that if you look at Dotson, which was -
involved a specific claim for process -- which is not
what they are asking for. They are asking for actual
relief, not process.
But you look at those types of cases,
whether it's Heck, it's a civil case that went about
attacking it, these cases on the periphery of what goes
in and out of Heck, the "necessarily implied" language,
I think, is a good descriptor for what is at -- was at
the periphery.
But when you attack the core of the criminal
proceeding itself, what his rule is simply -- is an
attempt to take the two words or the phrase from Dotson
and turn it back on itself and say -- says that, under
Heck, I can attack motions in the criminal proceedings
themselves, in the State habeas itself, as long as I
stop short of asking for that ultimate relief.
So Heck said the case is about avoiding
artful pleading, but now what he wants to turn it into
is a rule that encourages artful pleading and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe -- maybe we need -- I
mean, we've never had a case like this, and it's
conceivable to -- to me that we have to expand what we
said in Heck and Preiser. I'm not sure, however, that
what we ought to say is what you propose: That the test
is whether it could be brought in habeas. You say it
could be brought in habeas by claiming ineffective
assistance of counsel, but you would lose that -- that
habeas.
You can bring anything in habeas. I mean,
you can file a habeas petition. I assume you mean you
could possibly win in habeas. You couldn't win in
habeas with this claim because you couldn't show that it
would have affected the outcome. Isn't that so?
MR. COLEMAN: Well, as you noted in your
concurrence in Dotson, the question is not whether you
win, but whether you could. And the question is, if
it's properly the subject of habeas, then Congress has
demanded that all of the safeguards and protections for
habeas be in place. And that -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well -- well, that doesn't
quite give us the added formulation that some of the
questions suggest we need, if we're going to adhere to
Dotson and still rule for you. There has to be some
slightly different qualification. I'm not quite sure
what it is.
MR. COLEMAN: Well, I -- I'm not sure
exactly what you're angling for there. But at the end
of the day, I think that there is also a -- a
misunderstanding about what article 64 is.
Skinner treats article 64 as simply: I
asked for evidence, and I get evidence. And you denied
-- you denied me the DNA. What article 64 actually is,
it's a motion, as I mentioned, filed in the criminal
case itself, that says: Judge, I want a ruling that if
this additional DNA evidence were known at the time of
trial, then I probably would not have been convicted.
And the process for obtaining that ruling is
to make an initial threshold showing that suggests the
materiality of the DNA evidence. If you get over that
threshold, then you move on to testing, and you get a
hearing and an ultimate determination.
But there are really only two results in
article 64. One is a ruling that you probably would not
have been convicted. Or, two, I reject your request for
a ruling that you probably would not have been
convicted. And that's what he got. It is a motion that
goes to the core of the conviction itself.
JUSTICE BREYER: But if -- in Heck itself,
we said a 1983 action, where it is -- even if
successful, will not demonstrate the invalidity of any
outstanding criminal judgment, a 1983 action should be
allowed to proceed.
Now, I take it what you're suggesting is we
say that sentence is wrong or overstated, that there is
another circumstance.
MR. COLEMAN: Well -
JUSTICE BREYER: Even though it will not
demonstrate that the judgment was wrong, it still should
not be allowed in 1983 if it is, quote, "related to" the
criminal case itself. Something like that is what
you're proposing. Or what is it you're proposing?
MR. COLEMAN: What about -- where it -
JUSTICE BREYER: Say what it is, then. Say
what it is.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about where its only
purpose is to demonstrate -- is to be able to
demonstrate the invalidity of a judgment?
MR. COLEMAN: Well, ultimately, the only
reason it can be brought is to demonstrate
the invalidity of -
JUSTICE BREYER: It's part of a process
where you hope to demonstrate. Can you bring in habeas
a motion, let's say, to examine police files?
MR. COLEMAN: You could bring a claim in
habeas, alleging, for instance, Brady.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. This isn't Brady.
What you say is I have a right under criminal law here
that everybody has that I can go back and take
depositions of the -- you have a reason for doing it.
You want to take their depositions because you want to
show that something wasn't followed. Can you do that in
habeas?
MR. COLEMAN: If you are alleging some
underlying constitutional invalidity of your conviction
and you need to -
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there a Federal law -
is there a Federal statute that -- you can't say yet
whether it's invalid. We don't know. What we want is
to get the information that will help us make that
decision. We think there is a law that entitles us to
that right. Can you bring that in habeas or not?
MR. COLEMAN: The discovery provisions of
habeas allow you to seek that as part of your habeas
claim, and when you do that, all the safeguards and
protections of habeas apply.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that means FOIA
requests, where your only purpose is to seek out the
police files because you're hoping, just like you are in
DNA testing, that those files will show exculpatory
material. Then FOIA requests have to be brought in
habeas as well?
MR. COLEMAN: I think FOIA is different.
I -- FOIA -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Where -
MR. COLEMAN: You can ask for it. I can ask
for it. Chief Justice Roberts can ask for it -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, take the case,
Mr. Coleman -- I think there was one recently in the
Fifth Circuit where a prisoner asked for appellate slip
opinions. And the prisoner said I want these slip
opinions so I can write a better habeas petition.
Does that also have to be brought as part of
a habeas case, or can that be brought in 1983?
MR. COLEMAN: I don't know the specifics of
that claim, but -- but I would tend to think if -- if a
person generally has access to slip opinions, then -
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, he said he didn't have
enough access to slip opinions, and he needed more slip
opinions in order to be able to obtain a quicker release
from prison via habeas.
MR. COLEMAN: I -- I would say no. But -
JUSTICE KAGAN: No what? No what?
MR. COLEMAN: That that would not have to be
brought as a habeas. But, again, this is different.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Why is that different?
MR. COLEMAN: Excuse me?
JUSTICE KAGAN: Why -- why is that
different? Both the -- the prisoner is seeking a tool
that he hopes will lead to a quicker release, although
it has no certainty at all of doing so.
MR. COLEMAN: I think because there is no
right specific to him -- for instance, if I seek DNA
evidence, it's because I want to attack my conviction.
And there is no other reason to do it. If I want slip
opinions, it may be that I want to read them, it may be
for -- and the general public has access to slip
opinions the same way the general public -
JUSTICE BREYER: The library. I want to use
the prison library, same example.
MR. COLEMAN: Prison -
JUSTICE BREYER: I want to use the prison
library 9:00 to 3:00, because that's when I work on my
efforts to upset my conviction. Now -- I mean, it's the
same as Justice Kagan -
MR. COLEMAN: That's a condition -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- provided. What about
that?
MR. COLEMAN: That's a condition -- that's
just a prison condition. The Court has always said that
those types of things can be brought in 1983.
But -- but what we are talking about here
really is ultimately if you are convicted in one county
but you're serving time in a different part of the
State, you bring your habeas claim and then at the same
time you bring a 1983 suit, you ask for discovery and
say I don't want -- and this could be DNA; it could be
some other Brady materials; it could be an attack -- you
say I want to litigate the first half of my claim out
here without any of the protections of habeas, and then
if it turns out, well, I'm going to just move them over
and use them in my habeas, that -- without any of the
protections -- that is what Preiser and Heck ultimately
were trying to stop.
Heck said we -- the only time we really
allow these types of collateral attacks -- and -- and
Heck cites Rooker for this very proposition.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I was going to ask if
you have a few moments to address the Rooker argument.
What -- what is your response to the Petitioner's
counsel's explanation of why there is no Rooker here?
MR. COLEMAN: There -- there is a way.
When -- when the court said in Osborne you should use
these State statutes and you may -- you might have a
procedural due process, the court was not saying we are
going to create out of whole cloth an entirely new
category of procedural due process.
You do it like you do any other procedural
due process. If you go into the system and you -- you
file -- and again litigation is different from an
administrative procedure, which is what Dotson was
about. You're in litigation and you're in court. And
if somebody says, well, there's this prong that you
can't meet, and you think it violates due process, you
have an obligation to raise it then, and then you have
an opportunity, if the court rules against you, to file
a cert petition.
And if you don't do that, what we do know
is, from this very limited area, is that the one thing
that you can't do is file a Federal 1983 lawsuit saying
I think that what the State court did is arbitrary and
capricious.
And, so, Skinner is asking you to create a
1983 lawsuit that is always Rooker-Feldman barred and
always preclusion barred, because you're asking the
court to declare that the State courts violated your -
the constitutional rights in the way they went about it.
And -- and so he's asking you to create a category of
1983 suits that runs exactly contrary to Rooker-Feldman
and exactly contrary to what Heck said is this
overriding interest in ensuring that these types of
collateral attacks are brought, if at all, in habeas and
not through generalized 1983 lawsuits that don't provide
any of the protections that Congress has insisted by
statute be applied in these types of suits.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, then, can you give us
your best modified statement of Wilkinson against
Dotson? I think you were telling us that that formula
fit that type of case, would necessarily demonstrate the
invalidity of the conviction.
It's given here that this evidence would not
necessarily demonstrate the invalidity of the
conviction; nonetheless, you say it falls on the habeas
side of the line. That does require you to ask for a
modification of the Wilkinson v. Dotson formula, and I
ask -- if you could say what that would be, what that
precise modification would be?
MR. COLEMAN: Well, first, I don't believe
the Court has ever acknowledged the existence of a cause
of action for discovery separate and apart from the
merits of what you are seeking to do.
The merits of what he's seeking to do is to
attack his custody. That is something that can and
should be brought in habeas. And the Court should not,
for many reasons, create a cause of action that -- whose
sole purpose is to run counter to Rooker-Feldman and
whose sole purpose is to avoid the protections of
habeas.
Again, this is not an expansion of habeas.
It's simply a recognition that he has a claim that he
can bring in habeas, it -- it probably is a loser and we
think it certainly would be a loser, but the question
is, can he bring it, and if he can, it should be subject
to these types of things. And at the end, when you
recognize what he is trying to do, this is fundamentally
a question or a -- he is seeking to invalidate his
conviction, and that it comfortably fits within the
policy choices that the Court has made all the way -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- so the -
MR. COLEMAN: -- the way.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- Justice
Ginsburg's question I think is an important one. Are
you going to argue that you fit within -- this case fits
within "necessarily implies," or is there another
formulation that you think we should have?
MR. COLEMAN: We think given the nature of
the article 64 proceeding, which is itself an attack on
the conviction, it is a request that the Court declare
that the conviction is probably invalid, that because
that is what he is attacking, he is saying the result
that is -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but just -
MR. COLEMAN: -- that -- that we do fit
within the "necessarily implies," because any proper
attack on an article 64 ruling is an attack, but that
within the broader context, if the Court feels a need to
rule on these cases in criminal proceedings, then -
then it should recognize it should be brought in habeas.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- if I can have just
1 minute. Then if you do not file an article -- in a
State court at all and you just go to 1983, you're back
under Heck, and you haven't given us a qualification
that works under Heck.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Briefly.
MR. COLEMAN: Very, very briefly. If the -
if the only claim you brought -- you say, I'm -- I can
never meet article 64 because it says only applies to
convictions after January 1st, 2000. I -- I can't meet
that. I think it's unconstitutional. You file a 1983
lawsuit. You say I think that provision is
unconstitutional. That's really Dotson saying rule that
that prong is unconstitutional, but let me go back and
have process. That's Dotson -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. COLEMAN: -- not this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Owen, take 5
minutes -- or you have 5 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT BY ROBERT C. OWEN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. OWEN: Mr. Chief Justice -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Owen, I know I'm
pushing you, but I really would like a clear statement
of what the procedural due process violation that you
are claiming occurred here is.
MR. OWEN: Your Honor, our -- our claim is
that in its construction of the statute, the Texas Court
of Criminal Appeals construed the statute to completely
foreclose any prisoner who could have sought DNA testing
prior to trial, but did not, from seeking testing under
the postconviction statute, that is -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're not -- you -
MR. OWEN: -- that speaks too broadly.
So -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Then let me follow this
through. You're not attacking the constitutionality of
article 64 on its face, right? Or are you?
MR. OWEN: Your Honor, this -- this came up
as we were preparing for our presentation, and I think
there's -- there's -- here's what I would like to say:
We are not suggesting that article 64 -- that there's no
way to interpret article 64 that the court could have
chosen to -- to construe the statute that would always
be unconstitutional in every case. That's what -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It chose to construe it the
way it construed it. You -- you can't attack the way -
the way the State Supreme Court construed its statute.
MR. OWEN: That's right, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're attacking the
statute.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you saying -- and
that's -- this is where I have difficulty -- that by
failing to acknowledge Petitioner's ineffective
assistance of counsel claim, that that was the court's
error?
MR. OWEN: No, Your Honor. Our claim -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that was a good
enough excuse to excuse the fact that he didn't do
DNA -- DNA testing at the time of trial? Because that's
what the statute says. You can't get it if it was
present at the time and -- meaning if that actual test
that you're seeking was available at the time of trial,
or you don't prove that you couldn't have done it for a
good reason. So what is it exactly that the court did
in applying this that was unconstitutional?
MR. OWEN: Your Honor, I think it's not the
specific question to whether in our case they didn't
consider our ineffective assistance of counsel
arguments. It's that it made no provision for any
exception to its rule. In other words, that it
interpreted this as a blanket proscription on seeking
testing for anybody who didn't seek it prior to trial.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But, wait a minute.
That's what the statute says. The statute gives the
conditions under which a petitioner can seek DNA
evidence, and it said you didn't meet those conditions.
I'm still trying to figure out what you're arguing -
MR. OWEN: I think -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- was the procedural
due process violation in their application of those
items. So are you challenging it facially, or are you
challenging it as applied, but as applied how?
MR. OWEN: Once -- once the Court of
Criminal Appeals construes the statute, that's what the
statute means, and we are challenging that. If that's
what the Court's -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so what do you
think -
MR. OWEN: If that's what Your Honor
described as facial.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What is it about what
they said it means that's unconstitutional?
MR. OWEN: That it -- that it is not -- that
it does not admit of any exceptions and that it doesn't
have any reference to the purposes of the statute, the
reasoning the testing might not have been sought in a
particular case, or the fact, particularly that, in our
case, Mr. Skinner at the time of his trial, this -- the
postconviction DNA testing statute was still 6 years in
the future. So that -- so that to the extent the Court
of Criminal Appeals portrayed Mr. Skinner as making a
choice, that's -- that's not accurate, because he didn't
make a choice.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't even -- I'm not
even sure what that argument ties to, because I thought
what the court said was: This DNA testing was available
then. You could have gotten it. Strategically your
trial attorney chose not to, and so that disqualifies
you from seeking it now.
I'm not quite sure what the date of the
statute's passage, whether it makes any difference,
because -- because why?
MR. OWEN: Well, let me then -- I -- I've
always felt that it was intuitively, especially unfair
to accuse him of laying behind the log when there was no
log to lie behind. But that's -- that's not our point
in responding to your question, Your Honor. Our point
is simply that we think that the exception that they
crafted in construing the statute or the statute as
construed sweeps too broadly. The exception sweeps too
broadly.
Now, the Court may not necessarily -- we may
not prevail on that eventually. We're going to litigate
that, and I think that we will fight that out in the
district court. But the question for this Court is
we -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, Mr. Owen, if I
understand you correctly in how this understanding of
the claim relates to the Rooker-Feldman doctrine, what
you are saying is that the statute as construed was
unconstitutional?
MR. OWEN: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And that that falls outside
the bounds of the Rooker-Feldman doctrine?
MR. OWEN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Whereas, if you were saying
that the statute -- that the application of the statute
in this particular case was wrongful, that would not
fall outside of the Rooker-Feldman doctrine; is that
right?
MR. OWEN: That's right, Your Honor, and the
comment that was made during Respondent's argument
about -- he said we are challenging, in his words, the
way the State court went about applying the law to Mr.
Skinner. That's not what we're challenging. We're
challenging the statute as construed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. OWEN: Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
46:7 agree 9:12 12:20,22 57:16 36:2,25 37:9 41:20 2:10 3:7 28:14
24:2 27:11 31:21 approach 39:8,9 assume 19:8 41:23 believe 15:20 50:5
7:5,12,23 29:25 argued 5:4 attacked 38:12 bias 16:2
13:11 21:8 allegations 12:18 arguing 30:2 34:24 attacking 17:8,10 biased 15:18,22
36:13 46:4,6 19:15 54:24 17:11 40:24 51:12 biological 21:7
alleged 7:7 30:24 argument 1:14 2:2,5 53:7,21 blanket 54:18
43:15,22 35:21 54:16 Austin 1:17,19 44:14 47:20
50:7,12 amendment 19:20 armed 5:6 available 24:20 25:2 19:21 20:3,11,14
40:20 54:8 answer 7:15 14:13 41:12 avoiding 41:10 34:10 37:14 38:3
17:3 18:22 asked 5:15 42:19 41:6 44:16 51:23 bring 12:15 13:17
26:21 52:24 45:22 52:9 19:6 28:2 29:23
16:5
asking 12:25 14:21 bad 24:17 35:24 36:2,3 41:22
26:19,20 31:6 barred 9:18 49:6,7 47:17,18 50:18,20
57:9 49:7,10 basis 4:3 11:11 56:17,18
24:18 25:17 50:19 47:17,21 50:17 compels 4:20 18:7 20:9 53:7
33:9,10 35:7 certainty 46:18 52:3,22 54:1,3 complain 12:8 constraints 25:19
challenge 9:25 57:1 complained 5:2 construction 20:9
41:18,19 challenging 10:13 claiming 40:2 41:19 complaining 15:13 26:22 27:14 52:23
45:13,25 46:1 10:15 17:2 18:7,18 52:21 23:23 construe 53:14,17
47:13 49:14 18:21 19:4 55:3,4 claims 9:21,24,25 complaint 15:15,18 construed 10:5,16
51:20 52:3 55:7 57:15,17,18 10:4,4,8 13:17 15:19 17:9,14 19:9 18:9,11 52:24
14:21,24 15:2,25 classification 10:18 complaints 19:19 context 51:18
49:4 45:19 51:1,3,14 clearly 3:20 25:20 completely 52:24 contours 3:23
6:9,22,24 8:4 choice 55:24,25 client 39:21 conceivably 3:17 convict 15:12
9:15,16 choices 50:25 cloth 48:13 concerning 12:18 convicted 11:15
11:20 chops 11:17 Coleman 1:19 2:6 conclude 5:8 42:24 43:7,9 47:15
17:1,5 18:8 chose 53:17 56:5 28:12,13,15 29:6 conclusion 4:21 conviction 4:2,5,11
20:7,15 22:3 chosen 53:14 29:20 30:13,22 conclusive 13:23 4:14 6:2 7:3,24
23:2,9,15,18 circle 28:2 31:8,17 32:6,25 conclusively 14:10 22:20 23:21 25:5,9
30:18 Circuit 3:15 5:4 33:12,19 34:8 35:1 16:1,3 22:17 29:18 33:15 34:7,9
34:2,5 45:22 35:16 36:8,18,24 concurrence 32:3,8 38:18 39:18,23
40:14 circuits 13:1,2 37:6,15 39:9 40:5 32:14 42:3 40:4,16 43:10
41:10,14 circumstance 43:18 40:17 42:2,14 concurring 31:18 44:22 46:21 47:6
43:23 45:20 circumstances 9:23 43:19,25 44:6,12 condition 47:8,11,12 49:22,25 50:24
49:21 51:5 13:5 44:21 45:5,15,18 conditions 23:23 51:10,11
53:15 54:14 cites 48:4 45:21 46:2,9,11,14 54:22,23 convictions 12:17
57:10,21 civil 3:14 7:4 23:18 46:19 47:3,8,11 confinement 34:17 52:5
40:23 48:9 50:5 51:2,8 38:8,10,13 core 5:9 21:1 41:3
7:9,19,20 8:6 11:8 collateral 3:18 35:3 36:5 42:5 49:16 corpus 21:2,11
33:5,7 34:13 11:9,10 12:3,10 35:5 48:3 49:14 congressional 35:8 24:19 39:5,11
38:6,22 13:8 15:4 16:11,13 collaterally 12:17 37:10 39:11 correct 9:7,10 20:20
40:22,24 16:16 17:23 19:7 colorable 16:16 consider 54:15 24:7 27:16 32:17
23:19 25:16 26:15 Columbia 9:18,20 considered 11:23 37:6 40:17
30:13 31:13,16 come 5:6 22:10,15 37:5 56:25
crime 22:23 demanded 42:6 differently 22:16 doing 11:21 44:17
4:8 26:21 33:22,23 29:1,5 38:20 39:17 disadvantage 15:13 4:22 14:17 22:9
5:5,6,24 34:2,3,5 35:5 36:5 39:19,20,21,22 disagree 31:8 32:25 31:25,25 32:7
7:18 8:19 38:20 41:3,7 42:21 40:3 43:13,21 44:4 40:5 34:11 38:5,7 39:7
10:2 43:14,23 44:15 44:5,7,10 49:21,24 disciplinary 15:12 40:13,18 41:5 42:3
12:4,8 51:19 52:24 55:6 demonstrated 6:21 33:6 34:1 42:11 48:18 49:20
13:4 14:3 55:23 38:17 disconnects 7:6 50:2 52:8,10
15:9 critical 13:19 demonstrates 14:18 discovered 16:22 due 9:6 11:8,9,23,24
17:2,24 18:16 criticism 32:17 14:25 15:3 discovery 4:16 12:3,18 18:2 27:15
20:20,21 criticisms 12:15 demonstrating 12:18 13:5,11 27:20 28:23 36:13
22:8,10 custody 14:19 16:25 31:19 16:16 23:19,20,24 48:12,14,16,21
25:5 17:5 20:22,25 demonstration 7:1 26:1 30:5 36:3 52:20 55:2
22:11 24:16,22,25 denied 16:23 25:8 37:16 45:5 47:18 duration 38:12
36:11,14,21 37:22 36:16 37:3 42:19 50:7 D.C 1:10
27:4 50:10 42:20 discussion 19:15
30:3 deny 8:1 15:11,11 dismissed 8:21 E
32:19 33:4 D denying 9:5 11:11 disputes 12:19 E 2:1 3:1,1
34:7,8 D 3:1 11:11 17:3 24:15 disqualifies 56:5 earlier 17:21 19:18
36:9,19 damages 38:16 depending 18:3 distinction 4:13,20 26:2 33:3
40:7,12 date 20:23 56:7 depends 32:23 distinguishable 4:3 early 8:21
48:10,12,19 day 42:16 depositions 44:17 distinguishes 30:18 Edwards 14:4 15:7,8
49:3,8 50:6 deal 8:14 44:18 distinguishing 39:4 efforts 47:6
51:10,18 dealt 33:4 describe 30:3,4 district 1:6,7 4:8 either 12:19 18:18
52:23 53:13 decide 5:25 6:4 26:9 described 17:20 8:19 9:18,20,22 33:16 37:9
54:11 55:5 28:17 26:2 38:23 55:12 10:5 19:22 20:21 elements 10:25
56:3,19,22 decision 3:11 5:17 describing 3:23 26:14 56:22 31:16
57:16 9:4 12:2 15:17 descriptor 41:1 DNA 3:13 5:13 7:13 eligibility 4:1,16
27:12 28:7 decisions 3:20 23:15 40:15 13:9,15 17:3 18:1 embracing 16:7
49:8 27:19 determination 27:18 19:23 20:10,18 emergence 8:3
18:24 25:11 declare 49:8 51:10 develop 8:23 24:15 25:6 31:23 enacted 11:13
54:1 default 18:22 development 19:20 32:1,21,23 36:14 encourages 41:12
defendant 15:9 die 7:18 37:3,19 42:20,23 engage 37:18
50:12 37:11 22:14 23:9 30:3,20 docket 33:22 34:9 entertain 36:9
excuse 46:14 54:5,5 9:6 11:11 12:8,10 formulation 13:20 47:23 48:5,13 51:5
37:11 25:21 26:1,19,20 38:1 54:4,11
existence 13:8,15 37:5 44:24,25 49:2 full 8:23 28:2 38:9
expand 41:15 feels 51:18 fundamental 35:2 graduate 9:17
50:16 felt 56:11 50:22 11:13
explain 9:1 20:5 file 13:12 21:17,18 G 2:6 28:13
7:5,13,23 explanation 48:8 41:23 48:17,23 gaining 21:8 guess 7:14 22:3
13:2,18 expressly 11:22 49:2 51:22 52:6 general 13:11 34:18 guilt 29:3
19:23 37:22 filed 9:20 34:6 42:21 46:24,25 guilty 16:20 21:9,11
21:7,9,15 extent 11:18 26:10 files 44:11 45:11,12 generalized 49:15 25:15 29:2 39:21
23:5,7 55:22 find 16:7,19 generally 46:4 guy 21:17
25:6 28:23 Exxon 28:6 finds 7:18,19 getting 6:16 10:20
30:21 fine 15:22 39:2 11:4 32:1,21 H
35:13 37:3 F finish 14:13 Ginsburg 3:25 4:4 habeas 3:19 5:9 8:6
42:19,19,23 face 53:8 first 3:4 12:23 16:13 4:12,23 23:14 21:2,10,19 22:12
46:21 49:23 facial 55:12 28:18 29:8 33:11 24:10 33:3 39:14 23:3,10,16 24:1,11
facially 55:3 47:21 50:5 40:6,11 49:18 24:12,19,20,23
54:11 facto 5:3 flip 38:1 given 25:19 37:12 31:7,13 32:1,10,16
15:4,8 47:2 factually 25:14 focuses 19:9 go 6:7 16:18 23:3 36:2,3,4,8,10,17
failure 7:12 25:6 follow 4:21 53:6 37:23 38:1,4 44:16 38:13,18 39:5,11
falls 10:18 49:25 foreclose 52:25 going 4:15 7:9,18 44:13,20 45:4,6,6
46:1,8 I interests 35:11,11 jury 16:19 27:16,24 34:6 42:8
47:17,22,24 idea 24:8 interpret 18:15 Justice 3:3,8,25 4:4 48:5 51:21
50:11,15 identified 29:16 31:22 53:13 4:12,23 5:10 6:3 kinds 13:11,12
51:20 identify 27:13 interpretation 18:14 6:18 7:6,16,22 8:1 32:15
15:23,25 16:6,10 invalid 4:11 14:19 16:9 17:6 18:5,11 35:17 45:1 46:2
14:4,22 15:6 40:3 43:13 44:5,8 28:9,11,15,25 29:7 29:24 40:25
32:11 33:11 44:22 49:22,24 29:13 30:8,16 31:3 large 13:3
38:6,15 involve 34:13 40:15 31:14,21 32:3,6,6 larger 19:17
40:23,25 41:7 involved 40:19 32:12 33:3,12,13 Laughter 21:24
43:11 irony 5:19,20 34:6,10 35:12 36:8 27:23 32:5
48:2,4 49:12 irreparable 7:7,10 36:20,21 37:2,7,14 law 9:4,17 10:1
7:12 38:3 39:14 40:6,11 13:16 19:23 20:6
37:9 41:19
54:15
8:2,12 9:11 items 55:3 51:3,14,21 52:1,11 49:2,6 52:7
11:7,25 i.e 32:1 52:13,17,18 53:3,6 lawsuits 49:15
14:1,12 15:1 53:16,17,21,23 lawyers 9:16
15:5 24:7
16:13 17:18 J 54:4,20 55:1,9,13 laying 56:12
20:2 21:14 January 52:5 56:1,24 57:5,8,19 lead 17:21 46:17
24:2,13 25:3 Judge 42:22 57:20,21 leads 24:8
26:11 judgment 5:7 6:24 justify 30:19 learned 29:11
52:22 14:19 15:24 16:25 left 22:3 30:2
54:3,13 16:25 17:1,2,5,8 K legal 6:1 8:23 13:7,7
56:14 57:7 17:10,12,15,20 Kagan 10:9 17:6 13:13,15 24:18
23:13 24:16,17,24 33:12 35:12 36:20 legally 17:5 29:21
49:13
43:2 murder 21:10 obtaining 42:25 overturning 7:24
13:21 14:10 15:3 nature 17:23 31:15 offenses 15:12 10:9,14 11:1,6,25
47:6 16:14 17:4 22:1,8 55:5,5 21:13 22:1,4,7
means 6:16,17,18 38:17 39:17,19,22 opinions 45:23,24 27:3,6,10,21,25
35:15 40:12 members 32:18,18 42:10 44:23 51:18 opposed 36:15
mentioned 36:20 needed 16:23 46:6 oral 1:13 2:2,5 3:6 P
15:20 50:8,9 Nelson 14:4,7 25:1 27:19 31:5 paragraph 10:3 14:8
42:17 nine 32:18 11:9,22 12:1,5,6 40:15
notice 19:19 31:18 48:10 31:13 34:13 36:4
obligation 48:22 outstanding 38:20 path 8:5
42:21 43:9
45:13 obstacle 26:24 overriding 49:13 perfectly 38:24
precise 50:4 12:2 15:24 34:14 provided 47:9 39:6 46:23
preclude 9:14 procedures 4:24 5:1 18:23 52:7 54:16 32:3
36:10 38:7 39:7 41:16 proceeding 24:19 50:14 8:17 9:14 11:25
45:24 48:24 47:25 31:11 32:10 33:21 purposes 6:16 18:24 13:6,7 15:16 44:7
3:7 36:10 Preiser/Heck 33:8 51:9 pursue 24:5 reasonable 7:20
40:2 52:16 premise 12:5 17:7 proceedings 33:6 pursuing 8:5 24:4 reasoning 55:18
preparing 53:10 34:1 35:5 36:6 pushing 52:19 reasons 11:20 12:23
present 54:8 process 8:21 9:6 REBUTTAL 2:8
presented 23:17 12:18 18:2 27:15 qualification 42:12 received 36:25
41:11,12 prior 34:13 53:1 prong 48:20 52:9 56:22 55:17
32:7 38:3,5 46:8 47:2,3,4,12 propose 41:17 quite 7:10 23:22 reinterpret 18:15
prisoner 7:23 15:9 proposing 43:24,24 29:18 39:16 42:9 reject 43:7
prisoners 4:23 5:1,5 proscription 54:18 quotes 32:4 relates 57:1
30:7 42:6 45:8 47:22,25
17:9 19:25 40:21 41:9
34:25 remainder 28:10
39:1,1 remand 3:22
39:12 50:1 57:21 31:3 32:6,7 41:13 sides 8:24 spell 32:2,22 33:15
Rooker-Feldman scene 22:23 31:10 34:19 41:4 squeezed 8:13
36:5 26:5,17,18 28:3,4 section 13:4 situation 10:19 standard 6:14 7:17
28:14 57:1,6,11 see 4:20 6:8 14:5 Sixth 5:4 standards 33:17
route 27:7 seek 4:16 5:7 21:18 20:21 24:4 28:21 started 28:1
24:16 43:5 43:8 51:17 sense 26:6 40:18 somebody 22:19 29:8 40:9 49:19
S 7:13 20:23 39:18 sort 8:20 33:1 40:9 status 20:24 24:22
18:9 28:13 sentences 5:8 SOTOMAYOR 11:16 13:9,10,16
20:13 27:3,6 safeguards 35:9 separate 50:7 10:11,22 11:2 18:7,12,19,21 20:9
34:25 42:6 45:7 serving 47:16 12:12,14 16:9 21:4 24:23 25:20 26:22
44:15 45:4 saying 19:4 26:1 set 3:17 27:2 34:21 29:13 36:8,21 37:2 27:14 35:9 36:9
53:8,20 29:20,23 31:10 35:2 45:9,17 52:18 53:3 39:12 44:25 49:17
40:6,7 48:12 49:2 setting 25:9 53:6,16,23 54:4,20 52:23,24 53:2,14
28:24 49:9 57:2,8 short 41:9 sought 24:10,12 54:21 55:6,7,17,21
18:16 53:19 theory 24:18 30:3 47:16,18 48:2 54:6 unconstitutional
27:11 30:23 41:16 38:15 49:1 today 3:10 21:14 52:8,9 53:15 54:12
7:7 28:22 37:12 39:10 47:13 tool 46:16 underlying 14:19
system 48:16 50:21 totally 34:10 44:22
42:5 50:20 49:20 24:13,19,22 25:2 24:6 28:2 33:7 unrealistic 27:9,11
territory 17:16,19 33:16,19,20 34:11 turned 9:4 upheld 10:24
test 16:4 23:8 32:19 35:1 37:7 39:9,13 turns 13:8 22:23 upset 47:6
40:8 41:17 54:8 41:1 42:16 45:3,15 twice 14:8 47:4,24 48:10
testing 3:13 4:7 5:14 48:21 49:3,20 29:6 33:1,13 38:6 usually 21:10
53:1 54:6,19 55:18 thinks 31:23 40:22 47:13 48:3 variety 33:5
Texas 1:8,17,19 56:2 view 3:16 4:22 6:8
text 29:24 ties 56:2 ultimately 7:2 31:9 violates 10:7 20:5
winning 32:1 12:16 13:4 15:4
52:20 55:2 withheld 28:22 21:17 23:6,15
24:11 30:6 31:10
21:6 work 47:5 2
25:11 30:21 works 51:25 2000 52:5
38:4,24 world 7:22 2010 1:11
44:18,18 worried 32:13,14 2254(a) 36:9
46:21,22 wouldn't 16:5 21:17 28 2:7
47:1,4,19,21 25:2,8 26:7 30:9
39:18,22
37:17 41:11 write 36:12,17,19 3:00 47:5
24:25 27:9 40:1,7 43:17,21 5
48:9 49:9 wrongful 57:10
51:2 53:13 5 52:13,14
57:16
57:16 Y
51:9,17 52:4
20:2,16,20,22 yellow 9:1 53:8,12,13
33:8 40:6
56:20 57:17 9
1:5 3:4
9:00 47:5
49:19 50:2 10:02 1:15 3:2
13 1:11
41:24,24 19 29:25
1983 4:17 8:5,14
