IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER :
COMPANY, INC., ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 10-174
v. :
CONNECTICUT, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 19, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:13 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PETER D. KEISLER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioners.
NEAL KUMAR KATYAL, ESQ., Acting Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Respondent Tennessee Valley Authority, in
support of Petitioners.
BARBARA D. UNDERWOOD, ESQ., Solicitor General, New York,
New York; on behalf of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PETER D. KEISLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
NEAL KUMAR KATYAL, ESQ.
On behalf of Respondent Tennessee Valley
Authority, in support of Petitioners 17
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
BARBARA D. UNDERWOOD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 36
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PETER D. KEISLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 67
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:13 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
today in Case 10-174, American Electric Power Company v.
Connecticut, et al.
Mr. Keisler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER D. KEISLER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. KEISLER: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
This is a case in which the courts are being
asked to perform a legislative and regulatory function
in a matter in which the necessary balancing of
contending policy interests is among the most complex,
multifaceted, and consequential of any policy issue now
before the country.
The States ask that the courts assess
liability and design a new common law remedy for
contributing to climate change, and to do so by applying
a general standard of reasonableness to determine for
each defendant, in this case and in future cases, what,
if any, its share of global reductions in greenhouse gas
emissions ought to be. That would require the courts
not to interpret and enforce the policy choices placed
into law by the other branches, but to make those policy
choices themselves. And all of our arguments here -
that plaintiffs lack standing, that the Federal common
law shouldn't be expanded to include this new cause of
action, and that the case presents nonjusticiable
political questions -- while all of them represent
distinct points, All of them flow from the same basic
separation of powers principles that establish, we
believe, that the case ought to be dismissed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think that's -
MR. KEISLER: Now, all of these issues -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's exactly one
thing that's concerned me. They do all flow from the
same basic argument, and I'm concerned why you think we
should focus on prudential standing, basically, which
cuts off our jurisdiction at our own whim, as opposed to
dealing with this on the merits.
MR. KEISLER: Well -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In either case, your
argument is that this is too generalized for the Court
to -- to address.
MR. KEISLER: Mr. Chief Justice, our
principal argument has not been prudential standing.
The government has focused on the prudential standing
argument. We join that and we'd be happy to see the
case resolved on that basis, but our principal argument
on standing has been Article III standing. And we
actually believe that the Court could resolve this case
and address the issues in any order, with one possible
exception, which is that we do read the Court's decision
in Steel Co. as holding that the Court has to address
Article III standing before reaching the question
whether there's a valid cause of action.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Keisler, what -- what
good does it do you to have this Court say that there is
no Article III standing? The suit will just be brought
in State court -
MR. KEISLER: Well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- under State common
law and -- and the States' rules of standing are not
ours.
MR. KEISLER: Well, many States, Your Honor,
have similar doctrines of standing, similar doctrines of
political questions.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They only need one.
MR. KEISLER: Well, in any event, Your
Honor, we believe we would have a very strong motion to
dismiss in State court on a variety of grounds,
including -
JUSTICE SCALIA: We're not sure about that,
are we? So we -- we -- we -- may be just spinning our
wheels here.
MR. KEISLER: Well, I don't -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Indeed, you know, tapping
the case to State judges instead of Federal judges, I
would frankly rather have Federal judges do it,
probably.
MR. KEISLER: Well, as I said, Your Honor, I
think we would be able to defeat a State common law
claim on grounds of State law, for lack of proximate
cause, on standing and political question grounds that
many States have that parallel these; but in any case,
whichever ground the Court resolves this case on, we
think it's clear that the cause of action can proceed.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if -- if you had a
State court suit with a State plaintiff, wouldn't the
State be able to adduce Federal common law as a ground
for recovery? And then we would get to the merits and
see if there is a Federal common law cause of action.
MR. KEISLER: It's -- it's possible, Your
Honor, although we think they would be more likely to
proceed under State common law. But either way, we
don't think the elements of a State or Federal common
law cause of action under nuisance could be met here,
and we're very confident we could defeat that claim in
State court as well.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, we all -- we all
know that you sometimes have to peek at the merits to
see if there's standing. There's a little cheating that
goes on. But -- but in this case it does seem to me
that you're lacking any clear precedent. When I think
of standing, I think of Frothingham v. Mellon. That
isn't this case.
MR. KEISLER: But the Court has said in
Warth v. Seldin that the plaintiff has to demonstrate
that it will benefit in some tangible way from the
Court's intervention. And that's -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If you have -- if you
have the precedent of Massachusetts v. EPA and if any
one plaintiff has standing, I guess that's enough. So
if you look at standing alone, it seems to me the States
would have standing on the same basis that Massachusetts
had standing.
MR. KEISLER: Justice Ginsburg, we believe
that Massachusetts was very carefully qualified to focus
on the particular regulatory context of that opinion.
The Court said that it was addressing standing to
challenge the denial of a petition for rulemaking, when
the agency would be proceeding incrementally to address
a broader problem, and a statute specifically gave the
petitioners the right to seek that kind of incremental
protection. The Court was very specific about that.
The statutory right was of critical importance, it said,
to the standing inquiry.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Keisler, the Court did
say that, but it's cut off from the Court's actual
analysis in the case. When the Court goes through
injury and causation and redressability, the Court never
refers to the statutory cause of action.
MR. KEISLER: But it does, Justice Kagan,
specifically refer to the regulatory context in which
the case is taking place. The Court said that if the
EPA's arguments there about traceability and
redressability were adopted, it would doom most
challenges to agency action because agencies proceed
incrementally.
Here we have no statute, we have no agency
proceeding incrementally, and we believe there is no
basis for the plaintiffs to seek that kind of
incremental relief when they've acknowledged that will
have no material effect on their injury; and they
acknowledged that in the State's complaint when they
specifically said that the relief they seek here would
only constitute these defendants' share of the larger
overall emissions reductions that would be necessary in
order to have any material effect on climate change or
the injuries that they assert. That is an
acknowledgment that the relief they seek here would not
provide them any redress except in connection with other
reductions that would be obtained elsewhere, and that we
think means that this is a classic case in which the
injuries are not the product of the defendants' conduct
but of the collective independent actions of numerous
third parties not before the Court.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But the Court clearly
understood that in Massachusetts v. EPA and said that it
was enough, and I would think under traditional standing
principles the standing there was actually harder to
find because one had to go through the EPA first. One
had to say the EPA should regulate, and then the EPA
would regulate, and then the question was would that
reduce emissions levels? Here the EPA is out of the
picture. The action is much more direct.
MR. KEISLER: But there, Your Honor, they
were suing a defendant, the EPA, that had regulatory
authority over the entire country. Here they're suing
five separate defendants, each of whom has to be
evaluated individually, and there is not a single one of
them against whom the relief sought would have any
tangible effect on the injuries that the plaintiffs
claim here. But we also think that Massachusetts is
relevant in a completely different respect, which is the
Court was very specific in Massachusetts about what its
role was and what it wasn't. The Court said: We lack
the expertise or the authority to second-guess the
policy choices of the EPA, but its role there was to
compel the agency to adhere to the statute as the Court
interpreted it.
In this case, the States are asking the
courts to play exactly the role that this Court
disclaimed in Massachusetts v. EPA, which is to make
those policy choices in the first instance, and they say
that the courts can do this because the courts have done
this in prior nuisance cases, but this case is nothing
like any of the prior nuisance cases this Court has
held. It's nothing like an instance in which one State
is complaining that another State has dumped sewage into
a body of water that's crossed the border. The case -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So how many States
does it take? I think, you know, if it's three States
who have made that allegation, I don't know exactly how
you draw the line between a case like Tennessee Copper
and this case.
MR. KEISLER: It's not a question of the
quantity of plaintiffs, Mr. Chief Justice, it's the
nature of the task that the Court would have to perform,
and this task is different because of the global nature
of the phenomenon.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm more receptive to this
kind of argument if I know we're going to the merits as
opposed to standing -
MR. KEISLER: It -- it -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- and I recognize that we
slip in and out of the two categories, and don't want to
make it difficult on you. But I take it that these
arguments also go to whether there's a cause of action
on the merits.
MR. KEISLER: Exactly, Your Honor, and
whether the Court should expand the Federal common law
to recognize this. The global nature of this phenomenon
makes it different because every sector of the economy
worldwide produces greenhouse gases, and there is no
geographic nexus, as there was in Tennessee Copper and
every one of the other nuisance cases, between the
source of the emission and the victim that claims the
harm. And that changes what the Court has to do. It
means that any court or policymaker thinking about how
to alleviate the kinds of injuries that are pled here
has to first think what is the appropriate overall level
of greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere and then
make a comparative judgment about how the reductions
that would be necessary to achieve that level should be
allocated among all the different sectors based on the
social good that that sector produces and what
reductions would mean to that social good.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought your -- your
first argument when you addressed this issue was there
is a decisionmaker and that decisionmaker is EPA. So
you wouldn't get to even how arduous a task this would
be if it was within the court's bailiwick. I thought
your position was that the function, this regulatory
function, has been assigned to the EPA and not to the
courts.
MR. KEISLER: We are making both arguments,
Justice Ginsburg. We don't think there would be an
appropriate Federal common law cause of action even if
the Clean Air Act hadn't been enacted. But certainly
the argument is even stronger and easier because of the
existence of the Clean Air Act and in particular because
this Court in Massachusetts v. EPA interpreted the Clean
Air Act so that the term "pollutant" specifically
includes greenhouse gases, and that means that Congress
has assigned to EPA the task of making precisely the
determinations that plaintiffs ask the courts to make
here: Do greenhouse gases endanger the public, and if
so, what regulatory consequence -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the EPA is given
authority to regulate other pollutants, including those
that do not go up into the atmosphere, but that does not
prevent California, for example, from enacting stricter
standards for its -- for automobiles in its State.
MR. KEISLER: Oh, and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So why should we say the
EPA preempts the Federal common law?
MR. KEISLER: Because this issue, and I
would prefer to refer to it as displacement rather than
preemption, is very different from the question of
preemption of State law. The Clean Air Act has a
savings clause that preserves State authority across a
variety of areas, but the Court in second Milwaukee v.
Illinois cases specifically distinguished between
displacement of State law and displacement of Federal
common law. It said the -- the presumption is against
preemption of State law because of various concepts of
State sovereignty, but because of Federal concepts of
separation of powers, the presumption is in favor of
lawmaking by Congress and not lawmaking by courts, and
that means that the standard is very different. It
means that if Congress has addressed the problem, then
Federal common law is displaced.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's your best case?
MR. KEISLER: Milwaukee v Illinois II. That
was the case in which the Court held that the Clean
Water Act displaced a Federal common law nuisance claim
by Illinois against Milwaukee and specifically said
because Congress had addressed the problem, Federal
common law had no role to play. Here Congress has
established a process and it's a process in which the
States and the private parties here can participate.
They can file petitions for rulemaking, they can appeal
EPA decisions that they oppose, and it would be
completely inconsistent with that process if they could
also take a complete end run around it and go to court
and ask courts to make the decisions that Congress has
assigned to EPA.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This is a merits argument,
right?
MR. KEISLER: Yes, it is a merits argument,
because it says that any Federal common law action would
be displaced by the Clean Air Act.
Now, the -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Is the consequence of that
argument, Mr. Keisler, that there in fact is no Federal
common law of interstate pollution claims?
MR. KEISLER: I don't think there is very
much left of any Federal common law of interstate
pollution claims, just because the field has been so
heavily occupied by statutes. You know, all the
nuisance cases that the court of appeals relied on, Your
Honor, they were in a completely different time. They
were at a time when the Court's view of its common law
authority was extremely broad and its view of Congress's
constitutional power under the Commerce Clause was very
narrow.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, you're going to
have to struggle with the preemption question sooner or
later. You're confident you can establish not only
displacement of Federal common law, but also preemption
of State common law, right?
MR. KEISLER: It will ultimately depend on
the state of the law at the time that such a
hypothetical case is filed, but we would welcome the
opportunity, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is part of the inquiry,
part of the dynamic, how imminent the Federal regulation
is?
MR. KEISLER: I don't think so, Justice
Kennedy. I think the question is always what Congress
has done, not what the stage of the EPA rulemaking
process is. Congress, not EPA, can create or modify or
destroy causes of action, and that's why the Court said
in that Milwaukee 2 case that when Congress has
addressed the problem that's the end of the inquiry.
And there is no question that Congress has addressed not
just the general problem, but the specific problem here.
It has the statute which assigns EPA the authority to
regulate pollutants in certain ways and pollutants have
been defined under Massachusetts v. EPA to include the
precise greenhouse gasses that are at issue here.
There couldn't be a more specific example of
Congress having addressed the problem and assigned a
different approach to dealing with it than letting the
courts work it out under Federal common law.
The States' and the private plaintiffs'
argument is that the Federal common law will only be
displaced when EPA adopts the precise regulation that
provides the precise form of relief that they're asking
for. There's no case that says that and that's not the
law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: EPA couldn't give -
could EPA give that relief? We're dealing with existing
stationary sources. We're not dealing with new or
modified sources.
MR. KEISLER: We believe that the EPA can
consider, as it's undertaking to do, regulating existing
nonmodified sources under section 111 of the Clean Air
Act, and that's the process that's engaged in now. It's
announced that it will propose standards in the summer
and complete a rulemaking by May. Obviously, at the
close of that process there could be APA challenges on a
variety of grounds, but we do believe that they have the
authority to consider standards under section 111.
And if the Court has no questions, with the
Court's permission I would like to reserve the balance
of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Keisler.
General Katyal.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL KUMAR KATYAL,
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT TENNESSEE VALLEY
AUTHORITY, IN SUPPORT OF PETITIONERS
GENERAL KATYAL: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
In the 222 years that this Court has been
sitting, it has never heard a case with so many
potential perpetrators and so many potential victims,
and that quantitative difference with the past is
eclipsed only by the qualitative differences presented
today. Accordingly, the Court should apply the
prudential standing doctrine and hold these lawsuits not
fit for judicial resolution. The very name of the
alleged nuisance, "global warming," itself tells you
much of what you need to know. There are billions of
emitters of greenhouse gasses on the planet and billions
of potential victims as well.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, again, that just
goes to the merits. You make that argument to the
district court that your injunction is meaningless,
equity does not require an idle act. End of case.
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, Justice Kennedy, I
think it goes to both. That is, this Court in outlining
what the prudential standing doctrine is all about in,
for example, Newdow has said the following at page 11:
"Without prudential standing limitations, the Court
would be called upon to decide abstract questions of why
public significance, even though other governmental
institutions may be more competent to address the
questions and even though judicial intervention may be
unnecessary to protect individual rights.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'll add a third thing that
it goes to and that's Article III standing. It's clear
in our cases, if as you say the relief requested here
will not remedy the complaint of these people, you don't
have to go to prudential standing. That it seems to me
would deny Article III standing.
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, Justice Scalia, I
think that this case is best like Newdow, in which the
Court went to prudential standing first before Article
III. And the reason for that is because this court in
Massachusetts v. EPA, in analyzing the redressability
prong of what you're asking said that the reductions
that were sought there, if granted, would, quote, "slow
or reduce the problem."
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'll think about it,
but Newdow was a case where we thought that this
particular litigant was not directly injured. Here the
State said it's directly injured. That's the
distinction.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: More than that, Newdow
was a case of a father trying to assert a right on
behalf of a child, and the child herself did not want
that right nor did her mother. So it seems to me it's
worlds apart, and when you describe prudential standing
as involving generalized grievance, I thought that the
generalized grievance was Article III. I thought that's
what Mrs. Frothingham's case was about; it was a
grievance that she shared with everybody in the
populations, so she didn't have standing.
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Ginsburg, we're not
here saying that this case follows inexorably,
inexorably from the facts of Newdow or, frankly, from
any case that this Court has decided. There is no case
in the 222 years that announces the precise rule we're
seeking here, and the reason is because you have never
heard a case like this before involving the quantity and
quality of the claims sought here, the -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But it seems, General
Katyal, that there also is no case where we've ever used
this language of generalized grievance as a prudential
matter rather than as an Article III matter. So am I
wrong about that?
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, I think that this
Court has in Newdow and in Warth v. Seldin used the
language of generalized grievances to reflect prudential
considerations.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But Newdow -- Newdow quoted
the language of generalized grievance that came from
Warth, but it didn't specifically pin anything on that
language.
GENERAL KATYAL: I quite agree with you,
Justice Kagan. This is not like a case in which the
government is announcing some rule of standing that
requires the Court to, for example, call into question
previous precedents of this Court that reached the
merits or something like that. It's that this Court has
never had a case involving this scale and scope, and we
think that the prudential standing doctrine, at least in
a circumstance like this, which is a Federal common law
cause of action in which the Court is already being
asked to fashion the rules and, as Justice Scalia says,
an equitable action in which the Court has I think
special abilities to fashion relief if appropriate and
not -- I think prudential standing reflects best the
kind of tapestry of different factors.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, General Katyal, how
about the Aiken case, because in the Aiken case I think
the government came in and made the same argument, that
even though the injury was concrete, it was too
generalized and therefore there should be no standing,
the Court specifically rejected that argument both as to
Article III and as to prudential standing.
GENERAL KATYAL: Right, and I think Aiken
says that the prudential standing cases thus far have
been about has concrete injury been shown to a
particular person. And we're not disputing that for
purposes of Article III concrete injury has been shown
to at least one plaintiff, but we think that -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: To that extent you
disagree with Mr. Keisler because he says there is no
Article III?
GENERAL KATYAL: That is absolutely correct,
we do disagree to that extent. We think that prudential
standing best reflects the Court's general intuition in
this area that when a problem is of this magnitude and
literally involving the world, where everyone is a
potential perpetrator, everyone is a potential victim,
and where their own theory at page 15 of their brief and
32 and 40 states: "If someone contributes one drop to
the nuisance, they can be sued.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you don't
usually -- your phrase is exactly what bothers me. We
don't usually base a decision on our general intuition,
and the idea of prudential standing that we have
jurisdiction of the case but we're not going to decide
it is contrary to Chief Justice Marshall's famous line
that if we don't have jurisdiction, we can't decide it,
but if we do, we have to decide it.
GENERAL KATYAL: But I think that the
prudential standing doctrine generally and the zone of
interest test in particular really do focus on this
question, Mr. Chief Justice, about whether or not a case
can be cut down to judicially manageable standards.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'll give that you
on the zone of interests, but there you're dealing with
administrative law and a very narrow proposition. I
think it's Justice Kennedy's point, or at least the
point of his questions, that these issues meld into the
merits and, at least for anyone who is troubled by the
idea that we are not going to decide a case even though
we have jurisdiction to decide it, maybe that's the
better place to address it.
GENERAL KATYAL: I'll move to that and take
your invitation, Mr. Chief Justice. But before doing
so, I would say that if you're going to give me
administrative law and zone of interest I think you
should then give me Federal common law, which this Court
is at its height in terms of fashioning who can come
into court and what those rules may be.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand why you
assert that the remedy here will not provide the
relief -- you acknowledge that, don't you, that the
remedy here cannot possibly stop global warming, right?
GENERAL KATYAL: We acknowledge that the
relief that they are seeking looks like the relief in
Massachusetts v. EPA, which is that it would, if the
Court -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It does? It does? In
Massachusetts v. EPA the relief was allowing a Federal
agency to regulate the entire society's carbon
emissions.
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Scalia, that isn't
what the Court said. What the Court said is that it
would allow regulation in the transportation sector,
which would be approximately 1.7 billion tons, and here
they are saying 650 million tons. And so, I agree it's
less, but I think that the -- and one can criticize the
reasoning in the majority, but if that -- that is the
rule of this Court, and I think that as long as a
slowing or reduction -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think -- do you
think that was the holding of Massachusetts v. EPA, that
EPA can only regulate the transportation section?
GENERAL KATYAL: That is what the Court
based its redressability analysis on.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that the holding of the
case and -- and do you think the -- the -- the
forthcoming EPA rules can only govern transportation?
GENERAL KATYAL: Of course not. I'm just
saying that the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course not. Of course
the case covers -
GENERAL KATYAL: But I am talking -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- what the EPA could do.
GENERAL KATYAL: Right. And I'm just
talking about the redressability part of the analysis,
Justice Scalia. For that the Court said that this
reduction in the transportation sector was sufficient.
If I could take the Mr. -- the Chief
Justice's invitation to address displacement at this
time. We believe that we meet the State's own test for
displacement, which is found at page 46 of their brief,
which is: "A Federal common law nuisance claim is
displaced when a Federal statute or regulatory action
addresses the nuisance." And here you have not just the
Clean Air Act, you have the Clean Air Act plus, a
cascade of a number of different actions taken after,
Justice Scalia, the opinion in Massachusetts v. EPA.
JUSTICE ALITO: At what point in this -- in
what point in this cascade did the displacement occur?
GENERAL KATYAL: We think that the Court
doesn't really need to get into it. And for the -- the
reason is this: Displacement actions are extremely
rare, Federal common law actions are rare, so we don't
think you should announce some sort of general standard
for when displacement occurs. It's a more case-by-case
situation.
Here you have undoubted evidence that it
occurred -- that it has occurred because of a number of
different things.
JUSTICE ALITO: We don't know what EPA may
do down the road, we don't know what Congress may do
down the road. So don't we have to have some idea about
when this takes place in order so that this precedent
may -
GENERAL KATYAL: Certainly -
JUSTICE ALITO: -- be applied to the future
course of conduct?
GENERAL KATYAL: Certainly, Justice Alito, I
think it's appropriate for the Court to look at what
has -- what is happening right now. And here's what's
happening. First, in December 2009 the EPA issued an
endangerment finding, finding these greenhouse gases
significant pollutants.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, General Katyal, suppose
that the EPA had decided not to issue the endangerment
finding. Would your argument still apply?
GENERAL KATYAL: I think that that would
present a difficult case, because it would be the one
like the Petitioners make, which is the Clean Air Act
alone. And I think that what the States themselves
acknowledge and what the language of Milwaukee II -
excuse me -- Milwaukee I says in it is that -- and this
is at page 107 of the opinion: "It may happen that new
Federal laws and new Federal regulations may in time
preempt the Federal common law of nuisance. We think
that both together presents the best and easiest case
for displacement," and you have that here. You have not
just the endangerment finding; you have the EPA
regulating all passenger cars, all light motor vehicles
right now.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But if I insisted you answer
the hypothetical I gave you, what would the answer be?
No endangerment finding. Is there displacement?
GENERAL KATYAL: I think that it's a -- it's
a difficult case to make for -- for displacement, but I
think it could be made, for the reasons Mr. Keisler
suggests. But I -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is it -- I don't
want to make -- try to make a case for you, but why is
it that much more difficult? It's just -- I mean, it's
sort of like the negative commerce clause, right? The
fact that EPA has the authority to regulate in a
particular area means that the ball has passed from the
courts to the agency, to the executive branch, and
they've made an implicit decision not to regulate a
particular question.
GENERAL KATYAL: Absolutely. I think that
there's a good argument to be made. I imagine the
argument on the other side that you'll hear in a moment
is that the Clean Air Act doesn't look precisely like
the Clean Water Act in terms of forcing the agency to
decide various things.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess that would
be a preemption question rather than -- rather than a
displacement question.
GENERAL KATYAL: I think that very well may
be. And with respect to that, Mr. Chief Justice, you
had asked before about State common law causes of action
and whether they would be -- they would kind -- the
existence of those would somehow mean that the Court
should either find jurisdiction or reach the merits in a
way. And we think that the same arguments that prohibit
the Court from -- from -- from recognizing a Federal
common law cause of action for displacement very well
may be preemption questions as well that could be
addressed down the road with respect to State common law
actions.
And we don't think the Court should be
troubled by the existence of a potential State common
law cause of action. It's just like Milwaukee II, in
which the dissenters made precisely this argument. They
said: If you don't recognize it, then the States will
regulate it and it will balkanize and the like. And
what the majority said is: That's a question for down
the road; the question for now is has displacement
occurred?
JUSTICE ALITO: I understand that that's not
the issue here, but does the government have a position
on that if -- if New York law provides exactly the same
public nuisance claim that is now asserted under Federal
common law, would that be consistent?
GENERAL KATYAL: I -- I don't think we have
a position at this time on that. That's I think an
enormously complicated question we can get to at an
appropriate time. Our central -- our central submission
to you on displacement is this: That there is literally
no precedent for the argument that they are making here,
which is that the Federal Government has to regulate the
precise jot and tittle, the specific relief that they
are seeking before displacement occurs.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you have a position on
whether there's anything to be displaced here? Do you
have a position on whether there is, in fact, a Federal
cause of action?
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, we think, again, the
Court doesn't need to get into that question because
it -- you know, the -- there are few Federal common law
causes of action in the area of nuisance -- I mean, and
there have been two that the Federal Government has
filed since 1970 and three that we can find all together
in the Federal courts of appeals, all of which have
failed for various displacement reasons, and the others.
We think none of those look anything like
the -- the common law cause of action here. And, so, it
would at least require this Court to extend quite
dramatically Federal common law to cover this type of
situation in which everyone is a potential perpetrator
and everyone is a potential victim. And it would
require the Court, in fashioning relief, to think
through a number of things that the Federal courts
haven't ever had to grapple with from the nature -
JUSTICE ALITO: So, if there were -- if
there were no Clean Air Act, you would still say that
this suit, a suit like this, would -- would fail
prudential standing, but you don't have a position as to
whether there would be a claim under Federal common law?
GENERAL KATYAL: That is correct. We think
it would still fail prudential standing because of the
quantity and quality of the nature of the problem here,
and the multitude of different policy judgments that
would be required -- that this Court would be required
to undertake to adjudicate a Federal common law cause of
action in the absence of a statute.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But I'm sorry, General,
because I was understanding your answer differently, and
maybe I misheard you, as saying that if there were no
legislation here, you doubted that there was a Federal
law cause of action. Is that correct?
GENERAL KATYAL: I doubted that there was
prudential standing.
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, but as to whether the
cause of action exists under Federal common law in a
case like this, where you said it was so different from
the other Federal common law cases that the Court has
seen.
GENERAL KATYAL: I -- I -- I think I put it
as we doubt it. I mean, I think that it would require a
dramatic extension, Justice Kagan, of a case like
Tennessee Copper and the other cases that this Court has
heard, which are essentially: A pollutes a river or
something and hurts B. A here is the world and B is the
world, and that is such a difference in scale and scope
to pose enormously difficult questions as to whether
this Court should recognize such a cause of action.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Same -- same hypothetical,
assume no Federal statute, and -- and assume no Federal
common law. What about State law? Does State common
law become displaced because it's a matter of Federal
concern? We don't -- we don't -- we don't usually have
preemption of Federal common law.
GENERAL KATYAL: Well -- well, there may be
arguments, Justice Kennedy -- I'm not sure if the
premise of your question has a Clean Air Act in
existence or not. There may be some sort of arguments
about displacement or preemption under the Clean Air
Act -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The hypothetical is that
the Federal law -- Federal statutory law doesn't apply.
GENERAL KATYAL: Then I think that again for
purposes of State common law, I think this Court would
approach that question the same way it did in Milwaukee
II, which is to say that's a really separate
policy-based question that the Court doesn't use to
answer the questions about whether a cause of action
should be recognized or whether displacement has
occurred. But I would point out that the States that
have sued generally have doctrines like prudential
standing, doctrines like political question, that may
very well bar the reaching of these claims in State
courts as well.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It would be very odd to
say that there's no Federal common law, but also that
there's no -- no displacement of State law. That -
that seems to me odd.
GENERAL KATYAL: That's precisely the
situation that -- that this Court was grappling with in
Milwaukee II, and it said that -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can we get to -- to the
situation that now exists? They are seeking standards
for existing sources. I asked Mr. Keisler, and do you
agree with him, this is not a -- this is not a new
source or a modified source; we're talking about
existing sources. Does EPA, could EPA, regulate and set
standards for existing sources?
GENERAL KATYAL: Absolutely, Justice
Ginsburg. Let me say three things about that. First
is, EPA is currently regulating existing sources. To
the extent that a power plant is modified in any way to
increase carbon dioxide above a certain amount -- and
this is one of the so-called tailoring rules -- then
those power plants right now are subject to regulation.
Indeed, one has already had to get a permit. These
regulations just went into effect in January 2011 for
existing power plants that seek to modify.
Second, there is a settlement agreement in
place that commits EPA by May of 2012 to deciding how
and whether to regulate existing power sources, the
existing stationary sources.
And third, and I think most fundamentally,
there is no precedent, Justice Ginsburg, that says that
the government must regulate the specific industry, the
specific thing that the plaintiff isolates, in order for
displacement to occur. Rather, Sea Clammers and
Milwaukee II I think make explicit that that's the wrong
question. And so long as the nuisance is being
addressed -- and here the nuisance is undoubtedly being
addressed with a panoply of different Federal actions in
the area of global warming, and an executive order that
says that fighting global warming is one of the
government's highest priorities -- and concrete steps
taken, such as the 500-page tailoring rule, the
400-page -- the -- the other hundreds of pages that EPA
has done with its experts to appropriately regulate
greenhouse gas emissions, as opposed to a Federal common
law court of action doing something which would frankly
put you all at sea in terms of the complexity,
economics, international nature of the problem.
JUSTICE KAGAN: General, could I take you
back on that last point to another threshold question,
which is the political question doctrine? Because a lot
of your arguments really sound like prongs two and three
from Baker v. Carr, but you say that we shouldn't go
there, that we should instead address this matter on
prudential standing grounds. But the political question
doctrine actually seems more natural, given the kinds of
arguments you're making. So why not?
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, Justice Kagan, I'm
not going to tarry too long on which different way we
should win this case. I think either is an appropriate
way.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL KATYAL: But I think that the
prudential standing doctrine is a bit narrower because
it -- it contemplates a variety of factors, including
the fact that this is a Federal common law cause of
action where the Court is fashioning relief in the first
place, as opposed to the political question doctrine
which looks -- looks more to the standardless nature of
the adjudication.
We agree that -- that the political question
doctrine is an appropriate way to dismiss of this case,
but we think that, like Newdow, like Kowalski, this
Court can handle this case on prudential standing first
and recognize that this is an unprecedented action
involving literally the world, and it is not suited for
judicial resolution, and that flows quite naturally from
the precepts of the prudential standing doctrine.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's not an area where
the Court can't go. To take a political question we all
agree on, I think, the courts can't mess with the
impeachment of a president, just -- but here the Court
does deal with the subject matter all the time. It
reviews decisions that the EPA has made.
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Ginsburg, we quite
agree, and that is why we say that if a statute were -
were announced to provide standards, that that would
provide a way around the political question problem that
exists in this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
General Underwood.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BARBARA D. UNDERWOOD
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MS. UNDERWOOD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
This case rests on the longstanding
fundamental authority of the States to protect their
land, their natural resources, and their citizens from
air pollution emitted in other States. It rests on
three propositions: One, the interests of the States
are harmed by global warming; two, these defendants, as
the five largest U.S. emitters of carbon dioxide, are
significant contributors to it; and, three, these
defendants could take reasonable, cost-effective
measures to reduce their emissions in a way that would
slow the effects of global warming.
We will have to prove these propositions,
and after we do the district court will have to
determine whether it can frame an appropriate equitable
injunction. That's what discovery and trials are for.
But this Court should not close the courthouse door to
this case at the outset. The common law action for
public nuisance has been around for hundreds of years,
has been adapted by courts to cover new environmental
threats, and there's no reason why the courts can't do
the same thing here.
The defendants say there are too many
plaintiffs, too many potential defendants, and that
adjudication of this case will require courts to solve
the entire problem of global warming, but that is simply
not so.
On the plaintiffs' side, this is about the
States. We are alleging the kind of injury to States
that has been traditionally recognized by this Court;
their lands, their citizens, their businesses are being
injured by pollution emitted in other States.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Underwood, the -
the relief that you're seeking, asking a court to set
standards for emissions, sounds like the kind of thing
that EPA does. I mean, Congress set up the EPA to
promulgate standards for emissions, and now what -- the
relief you're seeking seems to me to set up a district
judge, who does not have the resources, the expertise,
as a kind of super EPA.
MS. UNDERWOOD: It's not as a super EPA.
It's something much smaller. It's a different question.
Interstate pollution disputes have historically been
entrusted to the courts, including the determination of
how much is unreasonable, which is -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if we just
concentrate on I think the relief you want, you say:
District court, if we pass everything else, you set
emissions standards, you put a cap immediately, you set
a cap, and then annually you require further reductions.
Well, that just sounds to me like what EPA does when it
sets emission standards.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, it's also like what
the Court did in Tennessee Copper. That is to say, this
case doesn't ask the Court to decide how much, contrary
to what Petitioners suggest, to decide how much emission
reduction is required to solve the whole problem of
global warming and then allocate a portion to these
defendants. It asks the Court to do something simpler,
and that is to decide whether these defendants can take
reasonable cost-effective measures that would help to
slow the pace of global warming. So -
JUSTICE ALITO: How does a district judge
decide what is reasonable and cost-effective? There are
considerations -- this is not a situation in which the
emission of greenhouse gases can be totally prohibited.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: There are other -- there are
countervailing interests. So how does the court -- how
can a district court balance those interests?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, I would say two things
about that. One, it was also true in Tennessee Copper
that it was not the case that the sulfur emissions could
be eliminated or that the plant was to be put out of
business. The Court in that case ordered a reduction of
sulfur, a quite specific reduction of sulfur emissions
in one season and more in another season. And how
does -
JUSTICE ALITO: But do you seriously argue
this isn't -- this isn't orders of magnitude more
complicated than that case?
MS. UNDERWOOD: It's somewhat more -- it's
larger. I don't know if it's more complicated. The way
a court would do that is presumably the way it did it in
Tennessee Copper. That is, there could be expert
testimony, there could also be evidence about whether -
what other emitters are doing, what they do that is
feasible and cost-effective to reduce their emissions.
In Tennessee Copper, one of the defendants settled, and
the other was subject to an order, and it would have
been available to the Court to look to what the settling
defendant did for some indication of what the
nonsettling defendant might well be ordered to do. So
there is evidence available from which a court could
conclude what is reasonable.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- what is the
-- what factors go into the cost-benefit analysis that
would have to be undertaken to decide what level of
emissions are reasonable in light of the threat of
global -- global warming?
MS. UNDERWOOD: The available technology,
the cost of that technology -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Obviously the
greatest benefit to reduce global warming would be, of
course, to shut down the power plants, right?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, we haven't asked for
that and nobody suggests that that would be appropriate.
It's not, any more than it was in Tennessee Copper.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because -- right.
But I mean, across the economy, the whole problem of
dealing with global warming is that there are costs and
benefits on both sides, and you have to determine how
much you want to readjust the world economy to address
global warming, and I think that's a pretty big burden
to post -- to impose on a district court judge.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, it's also a burden
that the plaintiffs would have to bear. That is to say,
we have alleged, and are entitled to try to prove -- and
we might fail; that would be for the district judge to
determine -- that "the defendants have available to them
practical, feasible" -- I'm reading from the
complaint -- "and economically viable options for
reducing carbon dioxide emissions without significantly
increasing the cost of electricity to their customers,
including changing fuels, improving efficiency, and
altering" -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We're dealing with
an electric grid that connects I don't know how vast an
area, but certainly a vast area here. And the fact that
they can reduce their emissions in a way that doesn't
affect their customers is based on the fact that other
power plants that are part of the grid will serve part
of those -- will serve the customers' needs to some
extent.
MS. UNDERWOOD: It may or may not be based
on this. These are facts that can be proven or not
proven at trial.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, General, they're
usually facts that are determined by an administrative
agency. I mean, even just reading that part of your
complaint, it sounds like the paradigmatic thing that
administrative agencies do rather than courts.
MS. UNDERWOOD: But if there were no agency
and if there were no Clean Air Act and somebody was
shooting poison into the air in a way that injured
people in another State, the States would have the -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But if there were no and if
there were no, we would be living in a different world.
There is an administrative agency and there is a Clean
Air Act.
MS. UNDERWOOD: But those -- those are
questions about what has been called the merits or
displacement. The question of Article III standing, the
question of justiciability, the question of political
question, those are the same questions whether there's
an agency or not.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We can concede that, but
we still have the displacement argument -
MS. UNDERWOOD: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY -- in front of us, and I
thought that's what we were addressing.
MS. UNDERWOOD: We can talk about the
displacement argument. I just wanted to be sure that -
I understood the question of standards to be a question
addressed to the political question point. And even if
it might be desirable to have an agency set standards,
it is not something that is beyond the power of a court
to do.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can the courts set a tax?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The agency -- the agency
is engaged in that, in it right now, and that's another
facet of this case, the potential for conflict. The
EPA, after acting for a while, has now agreed that it
does have authority to classify this as a pollutant and
it has taken the first steps.
One argument that the EPA -- that the United
States is presenting is the way agencies go about this
is incrementally, so they're starting with motor
vehicles and then maybe they will go to new sources, and
then they'll get to maybe where you are. But you want
the Court to start with the existing sources, to set
limits that may be in conflict with what an existing
agency is doing.
Do we ignore the fact that the EPA is there
and that it is regulating in this area?
MS. UNDERWOOD: No, we do not ignore that.
This is a very peculiar moment in time for this case to
arrive in this Court, because what is offered as
displacing is something that is said to be imminent, not
something that actually exists, and something that is
imminent may never happen. It was, of course, for that
reason that I believe the United States suggested a GBR
and we suggested that the case be dismissed so that the
lower courts could deal with the unfolding events as
they occur.
But the case is here now, and there is no
Federal statute or regulation that currently regulates
the emission of greenhouse gases by existing unmodified
power plants, like the ones operated by the defendants.
And the Clean Air Act works very differently from the
Clean Water Act. It did not put in place a permit
system for all emissions when it was enacted in 1970.
Unlike the Clean Water Act 2 years later, which forbids
all discharges until they're authorized by permit, the
Clean Air Act doesn't regulate anything until the EPA
makes findings and imposes restrictions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I -- I suppose there
were reasons that Congress adopted that approach, and
your suit would override those determinations.
MS. UNDERWOOD: No, our suit is consistent
with those determinations. That is to say, the design
of the statute leaves preexisting law in place until EPA
steps in.
If the Clean Air Act were thought to
displace the common law before any regulation occurred,
that would mean the immediate effect of this
antipollution law in 1970 was to reduce pollution
control because -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How much -- how much
regulation do you need before you would admit that there
is displacement? Is it -- is it a preemption analysis
that you're adopting or a displacement analysis?
MS. UNDERWOOD: It's a displacement
analysis. I believe it's a displacement analysis.
What -- what we start from is that the States have a
historic right to go to court under the Federal common
law and that to -- to -- to deal with the problem of
interstate pollution, and that that was a promise that
they obtained, the Federal remedy, in exchange for the
surrender of sovereignty in joining the Union. So there
has to be -- there's a strong Federal interest in there
being a Federal remedy.
Now, when the Clean Air Act was -- was
passed, without any regulations, if it displaced the
Federal common law, there would be no Federal law
applicable at all, because the Federal common law would
be displaced and there would be no Federal regulatory
law. The States would have recourse at that point to
State common law, as has been suggested. That would be
available still.
But this Court has said repeatedly, and it's
correct, that there is a strong Federal interest in
regulating this subject matter of interstate pollution
with Federal law. Federal common law is the default
position, and when some -- when -- when Congress and the
agency act to displace Federal law and put in place -
to displace Federal common law and put in place Federal
regulatory law, that's when the displacement occurs. So
when -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is -- what is
your test for displacement? When do we tell whether
there's displacement or not? Has there been some
displacement in this case but just not total
displacement or -
MS. UNDERWOOD: There's been displacement as
to automobiles. The EPA made a considered judgment
about emissions of carbon dioxide with respect to light
motor vehicles. The EPA has made no judgment with
respect to stationary sources.
JUSTICE KAGAN: What if the EPA made a
judgment, but it just was not the judgment that you
liked? Suppose that the EPA said: We've looked at
stationary sources; we're not going to regulate. Would
that displace?
MS. UNDERWOOD: I think if it were a
judgment that the amount of carbon dioxide emission from
stationary sources that was currently happening was
the -- was the correct amount, that would displace. If
the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That sounds like -
that sounds like preemption to me and not displacement,
or at least preemption with another label.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, of course, there are
some similarities between the two. In each case we're
talking about whether Federal -- whether one law
substitutes for another, whether one law ousts another.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, maybe you can
tell me in what -- to what extent displacement is
different from preemption. Tell me in this area you're
going to have displacement but not preemption. Or I
guess it's the other way around, in which there's going
to be preemption but not -- well, what's the difference?
You said in response to Justice Kagan that
if they've made a considered decision that this is the
amount and no other amount higher or lower, then there
would be displacement. In what way is that different
from preemption?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, the difference isn't
on that front. The difference is that with respect to
preemption Congress has to decide that it does -- that
it wishes to override State law expressly. Here what
we're talking about is simply whether Congress or the
agency has acted. It's a little different. They don't
have to have in mind Federal common law. They simply
have to act in a way that over -- that -- that
substitutes for Federal common law, because the promise
of the republic really for the States was that the
States would have a Federal law applicable to their
interstate pollution disputes, and until -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't think -
MS. UNDERWOOD: -- there's a new one, they
have the old one.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think that they
have to have in mind State law for preemption, either.
If indeed the State law just positively conflicts with a
Federal statute, it doesn't matter whether Congress had
State law in mind, does it? I don't know -
MS. UNDERWOOD: No, but -- perhaps not. But
we -- we talk about, though, whether there was intent -
that -- that preemption is ultimately a matter of
congressional intent and whether Congress intended
and -- and preemption should not be lightly inferred.
It's probably the case that preemption should be harder
to find in a close case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you haven't told us
how. It -- it -- it's certainly not harder to find
because for preemption you require congressional intent,
whereas here -- whereas for displacement you don't.
That's not the -- that's not the difference. What -
what is the difference?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, I think in this
context they probably work pretty similarly. I would
just say that in each case the question is, what is
the -- what does the new law do with respect to the law
that it is said to replace? And -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think you're right
that under your theory they operate pretty similarly and
I thought the whole point of Milwaukee v. Illinois was
that they are two very distinct propositions.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, they have different
reasons for existing, that's certainly what Milwaukee v.
Illinois said. That doesn't mean they have to in every
instance operate differently. The point of preemption
is about the Federal-State balance, and displacement is
simply -- is about separation of powers and the
interaction of various agencies within the Federal
Government. It shouldn't be surprising -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Your point is that EPA,
unless and until EPA gets to the point of setting
standards for existing sources, the court can be side by
side with the agency; we know that the agency is
beginning, it starts with light motor vehicles, and then
it's moving forward. But you say as long as the EPA
hasn't gotten to stationary sources, the court can be
conducting a similar function with -- one of many
differences is that if the EPA is setting the standards
they will set -- they will do it through notice and
comment, everybody will be able to put in a submission;
but the court substituting for the EPA, how does the
court replicate that notice and comment process?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, you say the court
substituting for the EPA. It would be the EPA
substituting for the court. That is, the default, the
beginning position before there was legislation, before
there was an agency, was a common law remedy.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But now there is an
agency, and we know that it operates in a certain way,
through notice and comment rulemaking.
MS. UNDERWOOD: I -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And here is the court and
how does it operate to get to those standards?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, TVA suggests that
there's an inexorable march, that there's a regulatory
program underway. But what they point to is an
agreement by EPA to begin considering whether to
regulate new and existing power plants. That can't be
enough. The Federal common law exists for the purpose
of giving States a remedy for interstate pollution, and
if it's displaced when -- when the EPA begins thinking
about it, then EPA could think about it for a long time.
They've said when they hope to complete this rulemaking,
but it is not uncommon for delays to -- to enter into
such processes, and it could be a long time before EPA
actually arrives at a judgment. A lot can happen to
delay or derail the fulfillment of a promise.
JUSTICE KAGAN: General, do you think that
you have a Federal common law cause of action against
anybody in the world? Your briefs talk a lot about how
these are the five largest emissions producers, but I
saw nothing in your theory to limit it to those five.
Is there something that you think limits it to large
emissions producers rather than anybody in the world?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Yes. I think limitations, a
limitation to substantial sources -- and I'll talk in a
minute about what that might mean -- comes from the
Restatement definition, from garden variety State cases
about -- involving nuisance, and also perhaps from the
requirements of standing itself.
This case asks the Court to recognize that
the States can sue the largest emitters of carbon
dioxide. These defendants produce 650 million tons a
year or 10 percent of U.S. emissions, and individually
they produce amounts ranging from 1 to 3 and a half
percent of U.S. emissions. There is no other company
that comes close except perhaps for a handful of the
next largest power companies.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're -- you're lumping
them all together. Suppose you lump together all the
cows in the country. Would -- would that allow you to
sue all those farmers? I mean, don't you have to do it
defendant by defendant?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Courts sometimes -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Cow by cow, or at least
farm by farm?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Courts sometimes aggregate
joint contributors to pollution, particularly where the
remedy that's sought is injunctive relief. If this were
a damage action there would be a different problem of
allocating to each individual defendant. But the relief
that's sought here is the same injunction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you can lump everybody
together, so you can lump together all the people in the
United States -
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- who breathe, I suppose.
MS. UNDERWOOD: No. I think that breathers
are not really -- for one thing, they don't even really
contribute carbon dioxide because they absorb as well as
-- as exhale it. For another thing, there's no way that
breathing -
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. All -- all
homes -
MS. UNDERWOOD: -- could be found
unreasonable.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- all homes that -- that
emit carbon dioxide in their -- in their heating
systems.
MS. UNDERWOOD: No, we're talking -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The whole country, and you
lump them all together, and -
MS. UNDERWOOD: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- you say that, you know,
that equals 10 percent or whatever. Does that give you
a basis?
MS. UNDERWOOD: It is not necessary to
aggregate to have these five defendants stand apart from
everybody else.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then don't give us a
10 percent figure.
MS. UNDERWOOD: I -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Give us the, you know, the
maximum figure for a single one of them.
MS. UNDERWOOD: 3 1/2 percent of U.S.
emissions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why do you
stop at U.S. emissions? What percentage of worldwide
emissions, every one of which I assume harms your
clients, do these five power plants represent?
Infinitesimal, right?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Not infinitesimal, actually.
I believe that U.S. emissions are a quarter of world
emissions, so you would divide these numbers by four
approximately.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: From power plants or
total emissions?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Total emissions. And -
JUSTICE ALITO: And anybody who is a
substantial contributor could be sued?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Yes. And in terms of
determining what -- who is a substantial contributor,
there are -- because I do think that at some point a
company's emissions or a cow's would be too small to
give rise to a standing or -- to either standing or a
nuisance claim, and there are various ways to draw the
lines. It's a familiar task for common law courts to
decide how much is substantial, too. But for an
example, if the cut-off were producers of 100,000 tons
per year, as in the EPA tailoring rule for new sources,
just to take an example, then according to EPA's own
technical data there would be at most a few thousand
potential defendants.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you agree --
General Katyal began his argument in fairly dramatic
fashion by saying we've never in 222 years had a case
where the relief, the damages and the relief sought,
were as broad as they are here. Do you have anything to
rebut his proposition? Any case where it has been as
broad as it is here?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, of course it depends
on what you call broad. There are -- there are many
cases, small cases involving an attempt to limit
discharges by companies.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's your best -
what's your candidate to rebut his proposition?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A broader case with
respect to the infliction of damage and the need for
relief.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, I guess what I would
say is that cases allowing suits against large
contributors, with or without others, and dismissing
against small and remote contributors, I give you three
State cases that are cited in our briefs: A California
case about a large mine that was sued for polluting a
river when lots of -- lots of others polluted it and
were not before the court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, not as many as
contribute to global warming?
MS. UNDERWOOD: No, that's correct. But we
could talk about -- if we talk about large contributors
here, then we're not talking about so many contributors.
We could have it -- we could have it down to, to
thousands or hundreds or tens, depending on how we
defined large.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: One aspect of the
litigation process as opposed to the agency process, the
agency makes its rule and that can be challenged in
court, but suppose your plaintiffs lost this case on
merits. I take it this is not a class action, there's
no certification of any class. Other plaintiffs before
another district court could launch a similar action
against these very same defendants, right? There would
be nothing to preclude that?
MS. UNDERWOOD: No. Well, the parens
patriae actions by the States might have some
consequence for the citizens of those States, but, yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That means you have -
MS. UNDERWOOD: There would be others who
have -- would have -- who would have the ability, other
States, I suppose. I mean, our claim here is that this
Federal common law nuisance is available first and
foremost for the States; and the question of whether the
land trusts or any other private parties could even
bring it is -
JUSTICE ALITO: Even if you won and the
district court imposed some sort of limit would be there
any other obstacle to other plaintiffs bringing suits
and another district court issuing a different standard?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, the -- ultimately such
things would be resolved by appeal and by -- by the
circuit courts. I mean, there are conflicts in many
areas. That's true about every district court
litigation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, no, it's not,
and it's not true of every litigation in this sense,
that everyone is harmed by global warming. So unless
you limit your suits to the States, which would -- I'm
not aware of a principled basis for doing that -- every
individual can bring -- every individual in the world if
they can establish jurisdiction can bring one of these
cause of -- causes of action.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, a principal basis to
limit -- the common -- the Federal common law of
nuisance, as I said, exists principally for the States,
for the reason it survived Erie was the Court spoke of
the strong Federal interest in providing the States with
a remedy for interstate pollution. So there is a
principle there.
And then beyond the States, plaintiffs would
have to, to bring a common law nuisance claim as well as
to have standing, would have to have a special injury of
some kind that would distinguish them from the
general -- from the general public. The Land Trusts
here argue that they, because they hold their lands in
trust for the public, they have special standing.
That's -- there's no need to reach that question. This
case could turn and should turn on the right of the
States to protect their people from -- and their -- and
their land from -- from interstate -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, General, much of your
argument depends on this notion that this suit is really
like any other pollution suit, but all those other
pollution suits that you've been talking about are much
more localized affairs. One factory emitting discharge
into one stream. They don't involve these kinds of
national/international policy issues of the kind that
this case does. I mean, there's a huge gap, a chasm
between the precedents you have and this case, isn't
there?
MS. UNDERWOOD: I don't know if I would call
it a chasm, but there's a large distance between them,
and -- but I would like to separate two things. The
international aspects of this are simply, I think,
beyond -- we're not suggesting that this -- this -- that
the Federal common law of nuisance entails relief
against international defendants. It does exist for
interstate -- for conflicts between the States
essentially. So I would like to put those aside.
And then, in terms of the magnitude, well,
there are many cases, not just one factory, the
Milwaukee v. Illinois itself involved not just the
Milwaukee sewage district that -- that was sued, but
there were many other contributors to pollution in that
lake.
JUSTICE ALITO: In setting these standards,
there would somebody difficult trade-offs, wouldn't
there? Could you just explain in concrete terms how a
district judge would deal with those? Let -- and just
determining the facts is going to be hard enough, but
let's assume all the facts are proven, there's not a
dispute about the facts. So that if a certain reduction
in greenhouse gas emissions is ordered, that will have
this effect, it will increase the cost of electricity by
a certain amount, and that will produce certain effects.
It will result in the loss of a certain number of jobs,
it will mean that consumers will have less money to
spend on other -- other things. Some people will not be
able to have air conditioning in the summer. That will
have health effects.
How is the district judge -- what standard
does the district judge have to decide those? It's
just -- what is it, just what's reasonable?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, reasonableness is the
beginning. I -- I've suggested already first that we've
alleged that this can be done without increasing the
cost to the consumers. That may seem -- that -- that is
a subject for proof.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Implausible -- implausible
is the word you're looking for.
(Laughter.)
MS. UNDERWOOD: Thank you, Justice Scalia.
But a very good place to look is what other
companies have been able to do or have done, including,
as I suggested, in Tennessee Copper and perhaps in this
area as well, companies that settle this litigation or
companies that don't litigate but instead do adopt
measures that haven't been widely adopted. There -
there is a practice to examine in the world about what's
feasible and what's cost-effective, and that's not
different from -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I suppose
cost-effective -- suppose your complaint is the same but
you alleged, what I get from reading these might be the
best way to deal with the problem. I would like the
court to impose a tax of $20 a ton on carbon, right?
And we bring all the polluters in, and the same injury
that you have, everything's the same, you have 14
experts who say this is how to get it done. It's
cost-effective, it will lead to substitution, it will
actually bring about a world without global warming, and
so let's do it.
Now, does the district judge, in your
opinion, have the power to enter that order?
MS. UNDERWOOD: I don't think so.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, now next
question is going to be, if he does not have the power
to enter that order, which could be proved to be
extremely effective, and least possible harm to the
consumer, why does he have the power to enter the order
you want?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Because the common law of
nuisance is addressed to direct the polluter to abate
the nuisance.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, this will. This is
addressed to that. It says abate the nuisance, here's
how you're going to do it. You're going to put a $20 a
tax ton on carbon, and lo and behold, you will discover
that nuisance will be abated. And we bring in 15
economists.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Actually, the order we're
asking for is less intrusive than that. We ask the
defendants to abate the nuisance, we ask the court to
order them to abate the nuisance by some amount,
informed by what information is available about methods.
And then -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why is it less
intrusive -
MS. UNDERWOOD: Because -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- to try to get into the
details of how an electricity company will in fact run
its operation, than to say all you have to do is make a
change in the dollar sign that you charge for your
product?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, because we're not
suggesting that the court would get into the details on
our theory, either. It would be the defendants that
would get into the details, that would figure out for
themselves what the best way was to meet these standards
-- to meet the objective.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I wish Justice Breyer had
made this argument in the EPA case. I don't think the
EPA case -
(Laughter.)
MS. UNDERWOOD: And of course it's true that
if you conclude that the Federal statutes displace the
Federal -- and the Federal regulations displace the
Federal common law either now or in the future, then
under Ouellette, the same Federal statute that replaces
Federal common law will revive source State common law,
because of the savings clause in that statute, because
of a choice Congress made; and that result, while less
-- less respectful of the Federal interest in providing
Federal law to govern these disputes, would nevertheless
leave common law courts in the business that they're -
of attempting to address pollution problems.
The suggestion has been made that the EPA
has entered the field of greenhouse gas, and that's
enough, but it isn't just one field. It only seems like
one because the EPA once said the whole subject was off
limits and beyond their jurisdiction. Once that
obstacle is removed, there still remain a series of
programs under the statute, a series of kinds of sources
that need to be regulated. The Clean Air Act regulates
by substance and by source. It's a collection of
statutory programs, and taking action under one program
can't displace the common law as it applies to matters
outside that program.
It may well be that there will be a
regulation soon that displaces, but it would be very
surprising if this Court concluded that the promise of
regulation is enough to displace the Federal common law
as distinguished from the actuality of it.
The Court has suggested that a court might
impose standards that would conflict with what the EPA
is doing, but there's really no reason to think that
would happen because if what a court sets out to do is
find out what feasible methods there are for reduction
and then order the defendants to make reductions that
are feasible, that's a much less taxing inquiry, a much
less demanding inquiry than the EPA is likely ultimately
to make.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if the EPA comes up
with a different number? Would it -- than the one you
achieve in this litigation; would the EPA prevail?
Would the EPA's number prevail or your number prevail?
MS. UNDERWOOD: You mean an emission
reduction?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, yes. I mean you -
MS. UNDERWOOD: If the EPA -- when the EPA
speaks, the EPA's rule will displace the Federal common
law. We're talking entirely -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And will displace the
judgment that has been obtained under Federal law?
MS. UNDERWOOD: If -- it would presumably
provide a basis for the defendant to go back to the
court and -- and vacate the judgment or alter the
judgment to comply with regulations, should that happen.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. And the court says
no?
MS. UNDERWOOD: That's what appellate courts
are here for, isn't it?
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I guess, just
to follow up, what is the appellate court reviewing? Is
it reviewing the reasonableness of EPA's judgment or the
continuing validity of the injunction it entered
previously?
MS. UNDERWOOD: The continuing validity of
the injunction it entered previously because once the
EPA -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that seems to be
a displacement of the normal process of administrative
law, which we would review the agency's determination of
how best and to what extent to regulate the emissions.
MS. UNDERWOOD: On a different litigation
track, it is -- would also be possible to challenge the
EPA's regulatory judgment, but in the case in which a
judgment had already been entered, it is the ordinary
litigation track to, if -- if intervening events make
equitable relief no longer equitable, to go back to the
court and ask the court to modify its injunction.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. And I guess
that's the central problem. Once you turn it over to
litigation, it's an entirely different set of standards
that would regulate emissions as opposed to the
standards that would apply with respect to an agency's
determination.
MS. UNDERWOOD: I don't think it's a
different set -- yes, one set of standards for reviewing
an agency's determination, but the ultimate standards
that are reached are going to be a level of emission
reduction through either process.
When the agency speaks to the question, the
Federal common law is displaced. When it doesn't, and
during what could be a long period of time when it
doesn't, the States are entitled to a Federal law
governing their dispute. So we urge this Court to keep
the Federal courts open to States exercising their
historic power to protect their land and their citizens
from air pollution emitted in other States.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General
Underwood.
Mr. Keisler, you have five minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PETER D. KEISLER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. KEISLER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Just a few points.
First, with respect to the merits and what
it would involve to adjudicate this case, Justice Kagan,
it is a -- there's a reason that this issue is so
fraught and difficult in international negotiations and
at the EPA and in the halls of Congress, and that's
because it requires policymakers to allocate burdens
among critical social goods in favor of important
environmental considerations; and the remedies that are
being considered are potentially transformative because
they involve the way we use and supply and pay for
energy. And the problems with courts attempting to
replicate what's going on in those venues are not simply
the matter is complex, although of course it's extremely
complex, but there is no legal principle here to guide
the decision. It's a question of trade-offs, how the
country wants to balance the projected environmental
risks and benefits against the projected economic
benefits and costs.
If Congress enacts a statute providing a
standard, then our political question argument goes
away. It's not that this is permanently off limits to
the judiciary. It's that it requires a standard. And
in a big intractable issue like this, Congress can often
create an orderly framework for consideration within a
statutory context, which it has done in part by enacting
the Clean Air Act.
And the final point I would make my friend
and I come at this really from opposite angles, in the
following sense, which is the plaintiffs say that this
is a deeply historically rooted cause of action with a
very strong and ancient pedigree, and therefore it can't
possibly present justiciability problems, under
standing, political question doctrines; and we say that
the very powerful standing and political question
obstacles that we think are apparent on the face of this
are a signal that this is nothing like the historical
cause of action that they've relied on.
To classify climate change as a tort would
trigger a massive shift of institutional authority away
from the politically accountable branches and to the
courts, which we think would be inconsistent with
separation of powers, and for those reasons we ask that
the Court reverse the judgment and direct that the case
be dismissed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Keisler, counsel. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:28 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
56:21,23 58:3 42:11,18 43:3,7 alter 65:13 66:18
actual 8:5 agency's 66:5,18 60:6 62:15 11:23 12:15
69:13 adapted 37:7 aggregate 52:17 analysis 8:6 35:3,15 37:2
33:9 5:5 7:23 18:16 33:5 35:14,24 analyzing 19:4 34:12
16:3,10 28:15 Aiken 21:10,10 36:5 area 22:3 27:17
26:20 62:4,7 air 12:16,18,20 announcing 35:22 41:16,16
addressing 7:21 16:25 25:9,9 annually 38:12 61:2
adduce 6:16 30:12 32:2,4 30:24 32:13 57:19
14:3,19 adjudicate 30:21 44:12,17 45:1 45:4 58:16
18:8 25:9 67:17 45:20 60:10 anybody 51:15 argument 1:13
26:18 adjudication 64:5 67:7 68:16 51:19 54:19 2:2,5,9,12 3:3,7
30:12 35:13 37:12 al 1:4,7 3:5 APA 17:4 4:13,19,22,24
42:6,12 administrative Alito 25:12,24 apart 19:17 4:25 11:4 12:6
22:24 23:9 42:1 26:5,7 29:1 53:23 12:17 14:15,17
46:8 42:4,11 66:4 30:11 38:25 apparent 68:25 14:22 16:14
64:5 68:16 admit 45:7 39:5,16 54:19 appeal 14:9 17:13 18:6
8:8 adopting 45:9 60:17 61:10 APPEARANC... 42:20,25 43:13
9:17 11:10 adopts 16:15 alleging 37:16 1:15 55:10 58:23
14:18 affairs 59:1 alleviate 11:22 appellate 65:17 63:8 67:12
21:3,5 affect 41:18 allocate 38:20 65:21 68:10
28:7,13,19 agencies 8:14 67:21 applicable 45:23 arguments 4:1
30:3 42:4 43:14 allocated 12:2 48:10 8:12 11:10
31:2,6,18 49:23 allocating 52:21 applied 26:5 12:13 28:11
34:14 agency 7:23 8:14 allow 24:2 52:11 applies 64:8 32:1,3 34:20,25
19:2 B 55:20 61:11 called 18:14 13:15 15:3
20:9 B 31:15,15 63:5 66:6 42:14 18:21 21:17
back 34:18 65:12 better 23:5 candidate 55:21 31:8,13 51:23
66:12 beyond 43:4 cap 38:11,12 55:18,18 56:2,5
33:4 40:18 balance 17:8 big 41:1 68:13 41:10 46:19 25:19
19:5 balancing 3:13 billions 18:2,3 53:13 61:12 causation 8:7
62:13 balkanize 28:22 bit 35:7 62:9 cause 4:3 5:7
base 22:11 branches 3:25 25:13 31:2,6,18 32:13
14:14 basically 4:14 breathing 53:7 8:6,11 9:5 10:8 28:7 29:22 58:3
basis 4:25 7:16 Breyer 43:6 61:8 10:13,17,21,22 central 29:9,9
60:2 65:12 brief 22:6 25:5 17:19 18:8 19:1 33:13 50:19
13:3 began 55:10 bring 57:11 58:1 20:1,1,4,7,20 certainly 12:16
begins 51:6 bringing 57:14 24:15,20 26:17 certification
9:20 10:4 1:23 2:4,7,11 55:15,17 31:7,12 35:3,15 challenge 7:22
15:6 2:14 3:8 17:14 broader 7:24 35:17 36:7,14 66:8
17:6,15 19:15 36:11 55:23 37:5,12 38:17 challenged 56:19
36:15 67:13 brought 5:10 39:10,12,18 challenges 8:14
69:4 behold 62:9 burden 41:1,3 43:9,24 44:5,8 17:4
16:23 17:5 25:4 63:21 52:1 55:11,14 changes 11:20
41:7 46:2 54:13 58:19 59:4,5 charge 62:24
62:16 benefit 7:10 C 63:8,9 66:9 chasm 59:4,8
27:24,25 30:12 58:5,12 59:12 conduct 9:6 26:6 consumers 60:8
17:10 32:2,4 42:6,11 62:3 63:14,16 conducting 50:7 60:18
22:9,14 44:12,13,15,17 63:16,21 64:8 confident 6:24 contemplates
23:7 45:1,20 64:5 64:13 65:7 67:1 15:11 35:8
27:12 28:2 68:16 companies 52:8 conflict 43:9,19 contending 3:14
36:8,12 clear 6:13 7:5 55:19 60:25 64:16 context 7:20 8:10
18:20 61:2,3 conflicts 48:17 49:9 68:15
44:19 clearly 9:9 company 1:4 3:4 57:18 59:14 continuing 65:23
46:12 47:7 clients 54:10 52:6 62:22 Congress 12:21 65:25
49:13 climate 3:19 8:25 company's 54:24 13:21,23 14:5,6 contrary 22:14
55:9,20 69:3 comparative 14:13 15:22,24 38:17
56:9 close 17:4 37:4 11:25 16:1,3,10 25:25 contribute 53:5
65:20 49:1 52:7 compel 10:6 37:23 44:20 56:10
67:8,14 collection 64:6 competent 18:16 46:7 48:2,4,18 contributes 22:7
collective 9:7 complaining 48:23 63:18 contributing 3:19
52:7 64:24 61:9 Congress's 15:6 36:21 52:18
commerce 15:7 completely 10:1 connection 9:3 control 45:5
57:3 67:6 common 3:18 4:2 68:3,4 12:25 14:21 38:16 39:9,22
25:6 29:4 6:21,22 11:13 complicated 29:8 consequential correct 21:25
55:1 57:7 12:15 13:8,17 39:18,20 3:15 30:16 31:2 39:4
13:24 14:3,6,18 comply 65:14 consider 16:24 46:4 47:5 56:11
15:1 20:5 15:12,13 16:12 concentrate 38:9 consideration 60:5,18
16:14 21:2 concepts 13:18 68:14 costs 40:23 68:8
30:21 31:6,8,21 conclude 40:7 47:21 67:24 61:16
27:15 32:21 34:13 concluded 64:12 consistent 29:5 69:11
35:9 37:5 45:2 concrete 21:12 44:22 countervailing
13:12 46:1,6,9 48:6,8 59:24 constitutional country 3:16
16:25 50:17 51:4,14 conditioning 15:7 9:20 52:11
68:6 courts 3:11,17 16:11,20,21 denial 7:22 26:17 27:9,14
12:12,23 13:21 41:14 Department 1:19 67:19
40:17 44:3 14:13 16:12 December 26:10 depend 15:14 dioxide 33:13
55:16 27:18 29:25 decide 18:14 depending 56:15 36:20 41:10
68:3 30:9 32:19 22:13,15,16 depends 55:16 46:19 47:3 52:3
5:2,5,9,11 38:6 42:4 43:6 38:17,18,22 derail 51:12 direct 9:17 62:4
6:12,15,25 44:6 52:14,17 39:1 40:10 48:2 describe 19:17 69:8
8:1,4,6,7 55:2 57:18 55:3 60:13 design 3:18 directly 19:10,11
9:8,9 10:2 63:21 65:17 decided 20:1 44:23 disagree 21:23
67:5 68:1 69:6 26:14 desirable 43:3 22:1
court's 5:4 7:11 deciding 33:20 destroy 15:25 discharge 59:1
13:14 8:5 12:9 15:5 decision 5:4 details 62:22 discharges 44:16
15:3,25 17:8 22:2 22:11 27:19 63:2,4 55:19
cover 30:5 37:7 47:21 68:5 determination disclaimed 10:10
19:2 covers 24:20 decisionmaker 38:6 66:5,19,22 discover 62:9
20:1,12,22 cow 52:15,15 12:7,7 determinations discovery 37:3
21:3,5 cows 52:11 decisions 14:10 12:23 44:21,23 dismiss 5:22
23:10,12 cow's 54:24 14:13 36:2 determine 3:20 35:15
24:1,1,7 create 15:24 deeply 68:20 37:2 40:24 41:7 dismissed 4:8
25:14 68:14 default 46:6 determined 42:1 44:5 69:9
28:9,12,17 critical 8:2 67:22 50:15 determining dismissing 56:3
30:4,8,20 criticize 24:5 defeat 6:8,24 54:22 60:1 displace 45:2
32:9 crossed 10:17 defendant 3:21 difference 17:21 46:8,9 47:1,5
34:14 currently 33:11 9:19 40:4,5 31:16 47:19,25 63:12,13 64:8
44:9 47:4 52:13,13,21 48:1 49:6,7 64:13 65:7,9
37:1,4,17 customers 41:11 65:12 differences displaced 13:24
38:10,16 41:18,20 defendants 8:23 17:22 50:8 14:3,19 16:15
39:6,7 cut 8:5 22:21 9:6,21 36:19,22 different 10:1 25:7 29:16
40:3,6 cuts 4:15 37:10,11 38:21 11:1,15 12:2 31:22 45:21,24
43:4,18,25 cut-off 55:4 38:22 40:1 41:7 13:11,22 15:4 51:6 67:1
46:3 50:2 44:11 52:3 16:11 21:8 displacement
D 53:23 55:8 25:10,23 30:19 13:10,16,16
52:1 D 1:16,22 2:3,10 56:24 59:13 31:7 34:6 35:2 15:12 25:3,5,13
2:13 3:1,7 62:14 63:3 38:4 42:10 25:16,19 27:1,7
36:10 67:12 64:20 47:16,23 48:5 27:9 28:4,13,24
61:12 damage 52:20 defined 16:7 49:17 52:20 29:10,14 30:1
63:2 55:24 56:16 57:15 61:7 32:4,14,22 34:2
damages 55:12 definition 51:23 64:25 66:7,16 42:15,20,25
data 55:7 delay 51:12 66:21 45:8,9,10,11
67:4 deal 36:1 44:6 delays 51:9 differently 30:24 46:10,13,14,15
45:14 59:25 demanding 64:22 44:12 49:20 46:16,17 47:8
66:4 D.C 1:9,16,19 54:13,14,17,18 16:15,19,20,23 exactly 4:11 10:9
63:20 easiest 26:25 37:19 67:7 33:7,7,11,20 16:9 18:12
64:14 economy 11:15 68:15 51:2,6,7,10 exhale 53:6
38:10,25 effect 8:20,25 endanger 12:24 64:1,16,22,24 existence 12:18
41:2,6 9:24 33:17 45:3 endangerment 65:1,6,6 66:2 28:9,18 32:3
57:13,15 60:5 26:11,14 27:2,7 67:20 existing 16:20,24
59:19,25 effective 61:25 energy 68:1 EPA's 8:12 55:6 33:4,7,8,11,18
61:19 effects 36:24 enforce 3:24 65:2,7,22 66:9 33:21,22 43:18
21:1 either 4:18 6:21 enormously 29:8 37:2 66:12,12 exists 31:6 33:3
34:19,24 28:10 35:3 31:17 equity 18:8 36:7 44:2 51:4
48:16 54:25 entails 59:12 Erie 58:7 58:6
32:16,17 electric 1:3 3:4 61:24 62:1 2:3,6,10,13 expanded 4:3
41:15 entered 63:24 essentially 31:14 expert 39:22
43:20 60:5 62:22 entire 9:20 23:23 establish 4:7 38:1
64:17 elements 6:22 37:13 15:11 58:2 experts 34:12
8:24 9:16 11:24 37:7 67:23 68:6 everybody 19:21 extent 21:22
36:23 37:22,24 9:13,14,14,16 53:24 41:21 47:15
54:6,8,9
35:9 45:23,24 46:4,6 follows 19:24 3:20 16:4 17:12 36:19,24 37:13
43:21 46:6,8,9,9 forbids 44:15 17:16 18:9,25 38:20,24 40:12
47:12 48:6,8,10 forcing 27:25 19:23 20:6,11 40:12,16,23
51:4,14 57:8 form 16:16 21:25 22:2,11 57:23 61:17
60:1,2,3 63:15,16,19,20 forward 50:5 24:21,23 25:14 18:23 34:21
file 14:9 Frothingham 7:6 55:10 58:15,15 61:23 62:8,8
35:10 final 68:17 19:20 generalized 4:19 good 5:9 12:3,4
64:19 function 3:12 generally 22:18 gotten 50:6
61:6 64:19 26:15 27:2,7 fundamental geographic 63:20
findings 44:18 36:15 11:17 governing 67:4
11:23 12:6 19:2 33:23 7:18 12:5,14 20:21 21:11
12:15 26:10 33:10 further 38:12 16:19 19:13,23 29:2,12,23
35:10,17 43:12 future 3:21 26:5 21:22 33:2,10 33:25 49:24
57:8 60:16 63:14 33:24 35:22 governmental
15:12,19 67:16 36:3 37:20 38:8 18:15
21:2
25:6,7
53:23 gap 59:4 57:4 granted 19:6
26:23,23
67:10 garden 51:23 give 16:19,20 grapple 30:10
28:12
30:5,9
31:1,6
gases 11:16 given 13:1 34:24 11:16,24 12:21
26:11
16:8 18:3 higher 47:22 impeachment informed 62:16 intervention 7:11
34:13 highest 34:9 35:25 injunction 18:7 18:17
44:10 60:4 historic 45:13 implausible 37:3 52:22 intractable 68:13
67:6 60:20,20 65:23 66:1,13 intrusive 62:13
20:8 68:20 important 67:22 37:19 42:7 invitation 23:7
hold 17:24 58:16 impose 41:2 injuries 9:1,6,24 25:3
17:5 34:23 Honor 5:16,21 improving 41:12 37:16 58:13 involving 19:18
56:1 11:12 15:4,17 includes 12:21 inquiry 8:3 15:18 35:19 51:24
66:14 hope 51:8 including 5:23 16:2 64:21,22 55:18
51:11 I incremental 7:25 49:4 issuing 57:15
65:14 idea 22:12 23:3 8:19 interaction 49:23
47:4 idle 18:8 7:23 8:15,17 23:9 45:18 46:4 January 33:17
49:3 33:1 34:3 individual 18:18 39:6,7 joint 52:18
18:20,24 19:3 individually 9:22 34:16 59:10,13 judge 38:1,25
21:15,20,24 industry 33:25 interpret 3:24 60:12,13 61:19
imagine 27:22 infinitesimal 45:15 46:5 65:10,13,14,22
23:4 57:21 58:22 12:13 13:6,9 largest 36:20 left 14:25
58:2 64:2 59:22 60:20,23 14:1,17,22,24 51:16 52:2,8 legal 68:4
4:9,11,18 62:21 63:7,7 17:11 21:23 60:22 63:10 50:16
5:8,13,19 64:24 65:5,9,15 27:10 33:4 65:19 legislative 3:12
6:3,14 7:1 65:20 66:3,14 67:10,12,14 launch 56:23 letting 16:11
8:4,9 67:8,14,17 69:11 law 3:18,25 4:3 let's 60:2 61:18
10:18,24 69:10 Kennedy 6:14 5:14 6:8,9,16 level 11:23 12:1
12:5,14 Justice's 25:3 7:1 11:3,7 6:18,21,23 40:10 66:23
14:15 justiciability 15:18,22 18:5,9 11:13 12:15 levels 9:16
15:9,18 42:16 68:22 19:8 31:19 32:1 13:8,12,16,17 liability 3:18
16:19 32:6,20 42:19 13:18,24 14:3,6 light 27:3 40:11
18:5,9 K 42:22 14:18,23,25 46:19 50:4
19:8 Kagan 8:4,9 9:9 Kennedy's 22:25 15:5,12,13,15 lightly 48:24
20:6 14:21 20:6,15 kind 7:25 8:18 16:12,14,18 liked 46:24
21:4,9 20:20 21:9 11:4 21:8 28:8 21:2 22:24 23:9 limit 51:17 55:18
22:9,14 26:13 27:5 37:16,22 38:2 23:10 25:6,17 57:13,24 58:5
29:15 30:23 58:14 59:3 26:24 28:7,13 limitation 51:21
31:5,12 34:17 kinds 11:22 28:15,19 29:3,5 limitations 18:13
35:1 41:25 42:9 34:24 59:2 64:4 29:21 30:3,5,15 51:20
25:11,12 46:22 47:20 know 6:3 7:2 30:21 31:2,6,8 limits 43:19
26:5,7,13 51:13 58:22 10:19,20 11:4 31:21,21,22,24 51:18 64:2
28:2,6 67:17 15:2 18:2 25:24 32:7,7,9,21,22 68:11
30:11 Katyal 1:18 2:6 25:25 29:21 34:14 35:9 37:5 line 10:21 22:14
31:5,12 17:12,13,16 39:20 41:15 44:24 45:2,4,14 lines 55:2
32:1,6,20 18:9,25 19:23 48:19 50:3,19 45:22,22,23,25 literally 22:4
34:17 20:7,11,19 21:9 53:19 54:3 59:7 46:1,6,6,8,9,10 29:10 35:19
36:3,8 21:16,25 22:17 Kowalski 35:16 47:12,13 48:3,6 litigant 19:10
37:20 23:6,17,25 KUMAR 1:18 48:8,10,16,17 litigate 61:3
39:5,16 24:12,17,21,23 2:6 17:13 48:19 49:11,11 litigation 56:18
25:14 26:4,7,13 50:17 51:4,14 57:20,22 61:2
42:9 26:16 27:8,21 L 55:2 57:8 58:5 65:1 66:7,11,16
43:6,7 28:5 29:6,19 label 47:9 58:12 59:12 little 7:3 48:5
45:6 30:16 31:3,10 lack 4:2 6:9 10:3 62:3 63:14,16 living 42:10
47:7 31:25 32:8,24 lacking 7:5 63:16,20,21 lo 62:9
48:12 33:9 35:1,6 lake 59:21 64:8,13 65:8,10 localized 59:1
49:2,13 36:3 55:10 land 36:16 57:10 66:5 67:1,3 long 24:7 34:4
50:18,22 keep 67:4 58:15,21 67:6 lawmaking 13:21 35:2 50:5 51:7
52:9,15 Keisler 1:16 2:3 lands 37:18 13:21 51:10 67:2
53:2,8,12 2:13 3:6,7,9 58:16 laws 26:23 longer 66:12
4:10,17,21 5:8 language 20:8,13 lawsuits 17:24 longstanding
5:12,16,20 6:2 20:16,18 26:20 lead 61:16 36:14
7:8,18 large 51:18 56:2
30:2 40:3 40:22 42:2 45:3 mother 19:16 37:7 43:16 occurred 25:22
49:19 51:22 motion 5:21 48:13 49:11 25:22 28:25
meaningless moving 50:5 20:12,15,15 odd 32:20,23
27:17 57:4 4:4 once 64:1,2 66:1
meld 23:1 narrow 15:8 normal 66:4 operate 49:14,20
59:16 20:24 23:2 natural 34:24 14:3 15:3 18:1 opinion 7:20
56:21 67:16 naturally 35:20 26:24 29:4,22 61:20
34:25 met 6:23 11:1,14 30:10 51:24 55:1 57:8 15:17
64:19 35:12 62:4,5,7,10,14 opposed 4:15
9:10 16:1 26:20,21 8:24 12:1 53:22 65:2,2 opposite 68:18
10:2,10 28:19 32:10 need 5:19 18:2 numbers 54:14 options 41:9
16:7 19:4 33:1 34:3 49:15 25:15 29:20 numerous 9:7 oral 1:12 2:2,5,9
24:10 49:18 59:18,19 45:7 55:24 3:7 17:13 36:10
mind 48:6,16,19 58:18 64:5 O order 5:3 8:25
31:22 misheard 30:25 67:19 64:3 64:20
36:1 46:5 modified 16:22 never 8:7 17:19 obstacles 68:25 ordered 39:12
68:3 33:6,12 20:3,25 44:3 obtained 9:4 40:5 60:4
modify 15:24 55:11 45:16 65:10 orderly 68:14
29:22 4:3 16:21 26:22 occur 25:13 34:2
permanently please 3:10 63:22 67:7 32:24
permission 17:8 pled 11:22 19:22 preempt 26:24
25:5 26:22 17:20 49:25 50:1 51:1 50:16 47:9,16,17,19
petition 7:22 policy 3:14,15,24 possibly 23:16 preempts 13:8
41:19,19 17:15 26:18 11:21 17:20 18:4 22:5 premise 32:2
68:15 38:18 67:13 policymakers 22:5 28:18 30:6 present 26:17
19:10 11:2,14 32:12 potentially 67:24 presenting 43:14
22:19 phrase 22:10 political 4:5 5:18 power 1:3 3:4 presents 4:4
picture 9:17 6:10 32:17 15:7 33:12,15 26:25
place 8:11 23:5 35:14,23 36:6 41:19 43:4 president 35:25
35:11 44:13,24 68:10,23,24 54:10,16 61:20 39:21 65:11
plaintiff 6:15 7:9 43:11 powers 4:7 13:20 pretty 41:1 49:9
52:24 planet 18:3 pollution 14:23 20:23 59:5 58:4
60:9
projected 68:6,7 32:9 ranging 52:5 recourse 45:25
64:12 44:13 46:8,9 58:18 redressability
57:10 prongs 34:20 Q 36:23 39:25
49:9 propose 17:2 qualitative 17:22 45:4
61:10
14:5 16:2 22:24 55:14,21 30:18 reduction 24:8
19:7 propositions quantitative 25:1 38:19
30:18 36:18,25 49:16 17:21 39:12,13 60:3
32:11
36:6 protect 18:18 quantity 10:24 64:19 65:4
48:9 53:4
38:19 36:15 58:20 20:4 30:18 66:24
58:23
45:14 67:6 quarter 54:13 reductions 3:22
68:18
61:11 protection 8:1 question 5:6 6:10 8:24 9:4 11:25
prove 36:25 41:5 9:15 10:23 12:4 19:5 38:12
37:8 44:4
64:17
proven 41:23,24 16:3 20:22 refer 8:10 13:10
provide 9:3 28:3,4,23,24 reflect 20:13
38:23
40:7,11
65:12 32:12,17 34:4 22:2
15:24 29:3 35:11,14,23 13:2 16:6 23:23
60:15
50:12 providing 58:8 36:6 38:4 42:15 24:11 27:16,19
66:4 63:19 68:9 42:16,16,17 28:22 29:12
proximate 6:9 43:1,1,2 49:10 33:7,21,25
44:20
69:7
18:11,13,23 68:5,10,23,24 66:17
55:4 21:1,7,15,17 5:18 17:7 18:14 regulates 44:9
67:12
30:14,17 31:4 28:14 31:17 regulating 16:24
28:21
35:7,17,21 quite 20:19 30:4 43:22 46:5
35:18
18:15 29:4 37:6 39:13 16:15 24:2
64:11,13 required 30:20 43:8 45:13 55:11 32:11 59:9
33:17 requirements 54:11 56:24 21:4,17,23 13:20 49:22
63:13 51:25 58:19 61:12,22 26:21 33:24 69:7
requires 20:22 65:15 34:8 62:7 65:15 series 64:3,4
8:10 9:19 reserve 17:8 rise 54:25 31:16 serve 41:19,20
25:7 resolution 17:25 risks 68:7 Scalia 5:8,13,19 set 33:7 37:21,23
46:10 35:20 river 31:14 56:7 5:24 6:3 13:1,7 37:25 38:10,11
66:9 resolve 5:2 road 25:25 26:1 13:25 14:15 43:3,6,18 50:9
16:16,20 38:1 27:12 28:2 36:8 25:11 48:12,15 settle 61:2
21:6 respect 10:1 28:6 40:8,15,21 49:2 52:9,15,23 settled 40:1
28:15 46:19,21 41:14 44:19 53:2,8,12,16 settlement 33:19
30:8 48:1 49:11 45:6 46:12 47:7 53:19,25 54:3 settling 40:3
37:21,25 55:24 66:18 47:14 49:13 60:20,23 63:7 sewage 10:16
52:19,21 67:16 54:7,16 55:9,20 64:24 65:5,9,15 59:19
respectful 63:19 55:23 56:9 scope 20:25 share 3:22 8:23
66:12 Respondent 1:20 57:21 65:20 31:16 shared 19:21
23:14,16 Restatement rooted 68:20 second-guess side 27:23 37:15
50:17 51:23 rule 20:2,21 24:7 10:4 50:2,3
52:19 58:9 restrictions 34:10 55:5 section 16:25 sides 40:24
65:22 66:21 33:14 8:22 9:2 33:18 significantly
revive 63:16 23:18 29:14 similar 5:17,17
31:11 23:16 24:23 63:17 sense 57:22 similarly 49:9,14
38:12 26:9 27:4,15 saw 51:17 68:19 simpler 38:21
33:15 40:17,21 saying 19:24 separate 9:21 simply 37:13
30:25
49:22 64:4 20:21 21:1,7,13 statute 7:24 8:16 46:1 60:16 61:1
68:2 sovereignty 21:15,17 22:2 10:6 16:5 25:7 64:15
32:25 33:3 66:25 35:7,17,21 64:4 68:9 suggests 27:11
special 21:6 42:15 51:25 statutes 15:2 40:19 50:24
16:4,9 29:13 start 43:18 45:12 32:7 64:7 68:15 30:13,13 44:21
56:4 specifically 7:24 state 5:11,13,22 44:25 suits 56:2 57:14
20:17 21:14 10:15,16 13:5 stricter 13:4 39:13
stage 15:23 28:18 31:21,21 stronger 12:17 supply 67:25
standard 3:20 46:1 48:3,16,17 subject 33:15 17:15
57:13 standards 13:5 10:18,19 14:8 69:13 Supreme 1:1,13
52:19,22 33:3,8 36:5 26:19 28:21 substantial 51:21 42:25
37:22,24 38:11 32:15 36:15,17 54:20,22 55:3 surprising 49:24
42:3 47:7 63:5 64:16 43:14 44:4 substituting survived 58:7
66:16,18,21,22 45:12,25 48:9 50:11,14,15 system 44:14
63:16 4:22,23 5:1,1,6 52:25 57:2,3,7 61:16
5:10,14,17 6:10 57:9,24 58:6,8 sue 52:2,12 T
33:4,7,8 7:17,21 8:3 67:3,5,7 54:20 56:6 tailoring 33:14
9:11,12 11:5 State's 8:21 25:4 59:19 34:10 55:5
46:21 17:24 18:11,13 stationary 16:21 sufficient 25:1 take 10:19 11:9
47:4 50:2 18:20,23,24 33:22 46:21,25 suggest 38:18 14:12 23:6 25:2
51:21 55:5 19:2,17,22 47:4 50:6 suggested 44:4,5 34:17 35:23
38:22
56:21 49:14 51:17 thousands 56:15 try 27:13 41:5 54:2,5,12,18
43:12 thing 4:12 18:19 threats 37:8 trying 19:14 56:1,11 57:1,5
56:12 things 25:23 28:1 34:20 36:18,21 66:15 62:3,12,20 63:1
30:9 33:10 39:8 56:4 TVA 50:24 63:11 65:3,6,11
47:12 48:4 think 4:9,13 6:8 time 15:4,5,15 34:20 36:19 66:20 67:9
56:13 6:13,20,22 7:5 17:9 25:4 26:23 39:8 47:11 undoubted 25:21
65:8 7:6 9:5,11,25 29:7,9 36:1 49:16 59:9 undoubtedly
12:14 14:24 67:2 unfolding 44:6
55:2 22:25 23:9 24:5 tons 24:3,4 52:3 64:22 unmodified
25:14,18 26:8 tort 69:3 understand unnecessary
29:19 30:2,8,16 traceability 8:12 understood 9:10 unreasonable
33:23 34:3 35:3 trade-offs 59:23 undertake 30:21 urge 67:4
10:21 11:17 48:15 49:8,13 traditionally undertaking 31:23 42:1
31:13 51:7,13,18,20 37:17 16:24 U.S 36:20 52:4,6
39:9,22 53:3 54:23 transformative underway 51:1 54:5,8,13
61:1 59:10 61:21 67:24 Underwood 1:22
34:15 thinking 11:21 trials 37:3 40:18 41:3,22 12:19 13:14
59:16,24 51:6 trigger 69:4 42:5,13,21,24 14:1 16:7 19:4
33:23 28:18 45:10 46:17 24:10 25:11
60:23 67:8 42:23 45:1 trust 58:17 49:17 50:13,21 vacate 65:13
69:10 49:15 trusts 57:10 50:24 51:20 valid 5:7
Valley 1:20 2:7
42:7 43:14 Y 32 22:7
17:5 35:8 50:19 53:6 years 17:18 20:2
61:11 63:5 4
44:15
30:1 49:23 ways 16:6 55:1 400-page 34:11
welcome 15:16 46 25:5
34:10
46:20 we're 5:24 6:24 zone 22:18,23
11:4 16:20,21 23:9 6
2:14
46:25 47:11
52:5
56:13 59:11
24:3
54:5
60:16
38:9 10-174 1:5 3:4
43:17 10:13 1:14 3:2
100,000 55:4
34:7,8 111 16:25 17:6
37:13 14 61:14
40:12 15 22:6 62:10
41:1 17 2:8
57:23 19 1:10
1970 29:24 44:14
35:19
42:10
51:15,19 54:13 2
worlds 19:17 2009 26:10
44:13,15 wouldn't 6:15 222 17:18 20:2
32:10 wrong 20:10 34:3
35:2,4,15 3
39:20 X
2:4 52:5 54:5
41:17 x 1:2,8
