IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MAYO COLLABORATIVE SERVICES, DBA :
MAYO MEDICAL LABORATORIES, ET AL.,:
Petitioners :
v. : No. 10-1150
PROMETHEUS LABORATORIES, INC. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, December 7, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; for
Petitioners.
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae.
RICHARD P. BRESS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, 25
as amicus curiae
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
RICHARD P. BRESS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 35
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-1150, Mayo Collaborative
Services v. Prometheus Laboratories.
Mr. Shapiro.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SHAPIRO: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
We're here today to urge the Court to
reinstate the district court's decision, which
faithfully applied this Court's precedents under section
101 of the Patent Act. The problem with the Prometheus
patent is its broad pre-emption of a physical
phenomenon, which prevents others like Mayo Clinic from
offering a better metabolite test with more accurate
numbers.
And this is a huge practical problem for
patients. These thiopurine drugs are strong medicine.
Too much of this can be fatal; too little can leave a
chronic lingering disease in the patient.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I didn't
think that this patent covered the actual machine. Mayo
is free to develop a new machine.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, it -- what it can't do
is use any number from 400 up until infinity, and it
believes that's the wrong number. And it can't have a
-- a different standard for a legion of autoimmune
diseases, and there are dozens and dozens of them.
That's a broad field to pre-empt the natural phenomenon.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it -- it actually
is much narrower than that. It's within a range, two
ranges actually. And so, it has already changed one
range, and that's not the subject of the district
court's finding that the lower number it's proposing is
infringing.
So, it's not as broad as you are stating.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, you -- you see, Your
Honor, we believe the correct number is 450 to 700. And
that's necessary to cure various autoimmune diseases.
And Prometheus took the position that its patent
pre-empts everything above 400, all the way up to
infinity, it said, for all autoimmune diseases, dozens
and dozens of them.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it took that
position, but the district court narrowed it to 15
percent, to 15 --
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, you know, actually it
didn't, Your Honor. You'll see in that opinion, there
are two rulings. One is the 15 percent ruling, which
lowers the number; but it said 400 and above all the way
to infinity. There's no upper limit on this.
So, as a practical matter, there's no room
for anybody else to offer a metabolite test. And what
this means for patients is one opinion in the United
States. If you have one of these life-threatening
diseases --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It can offer the test.
MR. SHAPIRO: -- you get one opinion.
Pardon me?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It can offer the test.
It just can't recommend the dosage to the doctor.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, it can't have a test
that has a different therapeutic range, because that's a
pre-emption. They take the position --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tests do two things:
They measure something --
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and therapeutic range
does something else. The tests can happen. The doctor
gets a number. What the doctor does with that number is
a different issue.
MR. SHAPIRO: And -- and what -- what
Prometheus submitted and the court agreed is if you are
notified, if you are aware of their range when you're
drawing blood, that's an infringement right then and
there, if -- if you're aware or warned by their number.
So, any doctor in the United States that
draws blood and is aware of this range of theirs is
pre-empting. And the practical result is we haven't
been able to offer this competing test now for 7 years.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: When -- when the
Respondent addresses this, will they take issue with the
way you describe what has been pre-empted, or as you
read their -- we'll ask them -- but as you read their
brief, is this crystal-clear?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, you'll see,
Justice Kennedy, in the district court, they argued for
any number above 400. That's -- it's 400 and above, is
what it says. And they said there's no upper limit on
that. The district court found that. That was their
position. It was accepted.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In thinking about what's
pre-empted, I looked at the Diehr case involving the
rubber molding --
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- and the constant
monitoring. And if you could take an analogy from that,
let's -- let's suppose that there was a system of
measurements that you take every half-hour which
constantly monitor how a drug is being retained in the
tissues, and that there is a protocol for the admission
of some two or three different drugs to get the balance
right. In other words, it's much more complicated.
Is there some point at which that is
patentable, even though this pre-empts a -- a whole
range of different choices?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, it may be patentable.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it's hard for you to
answer -- you know, there's a million hypotheticals.
But I'm just trying to --
MR. SHAPIRO: The key is the specificity.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- see what the process is
here.
MR. SHAPIRO: If it leaves room for others
to have their own tests with different numbers and
different procedures so that it isn't just one test for
the whole country, then yes, if it's specific enough.
The specificity is the key.
What -- what the Court said in Bilski, of
course, is that you can't pre-empt a whole field, a
broad field with -- with your -- your patent, which this
one does. And if you look at the diseases that are
covered --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I'm not comfortable
with that. I mean, it depends on how -- how broad it
is?
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. If you -- if you
pre-empt all the numbers up to infinity and all
autoimmune diseases, that's a vast field. It's much
bigger than the field in Flook.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about up to 700? Is
that okay?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, no. I -- I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: 550?
MR. SHAPIRO: No. I -- I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: 830?
MR. SHAPIRO: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, how are we supposed
to apply that kind of a rule?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, I think doctors have to
have freedom to make their own judgments about these
natural phenomena.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Above -- above 830 or below
830? Which?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, I -- no. I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It just seems to me not
a -- not a patent rule that we could possibly apply.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, it's the rule I believe
adopted in Bilski and in Flook, that you can't wipe out
a whole field so no one else can have a competing test.
The result for the public is that these numbers would be
frozen for 20 years, and a very serious person couldn't
get a second opinion from Mayo Clinic, which uses
different numbers. That's why we think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't -- doesn't any --
any medical patent rely on natural processes? I mean,
even if you invent a new drug, what that new drug does
is -- is natural. It affects the -- the human
physiognomy --
MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- in a certain natural
way.
MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it -- is it therefore
precluded from patentability?
MR. SHAPIRO: No, it's not. And, in fact,
this drug was patented.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's different here?
MR. SHAPIRO: The difference is the
specificity. If you invent a drug which has a
particular chemical formula, others can invent other
drugs. There's room for competing drugs in the medical
world. And you'll -- many, many patented drugs --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought your answer to
Justice Scalia would be -- and please correct me -- the
difference is, is that what the Respondent is claiming
is a -- a patent on the measurement of the result.
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes, it is a patent on a
measurement --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're giving a
different answer.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, that's how I would
have answered the question. But that's obviously not --
MR. SHAPIRO: No, I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- the right way to do it.
MR. SHAPIRO: I think that's -- that's
one -- one part of it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's another one of
your arguments, but one of your arguments says you can't
patent nature.
MR. SHAPIRO: You can't patent nature.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. SHAPIRO: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that relates to the
question that I asked.
MR. SHAPIRO: But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And tell me why you can't
patent nature, then?
MR. SHAPIRO: Because -- because of the law
of nature doctrine that has existed for 150 years in
this Court. Congress has never disagreed with that.
Pieces of nature can't be monopolized. Neither can
formulas.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Yes, but your
question --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Nature always -- nature
always has a reaction to the drug.
MR. SHAPIRO: Pardon me?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Nature always has a
reaction to the drug.
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. So, all doctors --
that's part of the storehouse of information. All
doctors can look at that reaction. They can calibrate
it the way they see fit. They have different opinions.
And it's important for all of us that they have those
different opinions. We found that the numbers that they
were using were way off for skin disorders, dangerously
high. 400 is the wrong number. The correct number is
150 to 300.
Now, it's very important for patients to
be -- with life-threatening conditions, to be able to
get that information.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But then, how
do you -- that's -- I see that. I will spare you the
reasons why I think the law of nature doctrine exists,
because they are not relevant to my question.
My question is I think it's hornbook law
that the law of nature cannot be patented.
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: It is also hornbook law
that the application of a law of nature can be patented.
MR. SHAPIRO: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, in this
case, what I think the claim is, is that we are applying
a law of nature. Now, we read the words of applying it:
Administer a drug, determine the level. And then it
uses the word "wherein," which I'll ask them what that
means. But -- but -- so, they say those two words,
administer the drug, determine the level, are the
application of the law of nature that they found.
Now, there's something odd about that in
your view --
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- at least. And I want to
know what.
MR. SHAPIRO: For us, the real oddity is
that this numerical calibration that they've given
extends up to infinity, and it precludes every other
blood test.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Suppose it
didn't. Suppose I discover that if I take aspirin,
someone takes aspirin, I discover they have to take
aspirin for a headache, and, you know, I see an amazing
thing: If you look at a person's little finger, and you
notice the color, it shows the aspirin, you need a
little more; unless it's a different color, you need a
little less. Now, I've discovered a law of nature --
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and I may have spent
millions on that. And I can't patent that law of
nature, but I say I didn't; I said apply it. I said
look at his little finger.
MR. SHAPIRO: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay? Is that a good
patent or isn't it?
MR. SHAPIRO: No, it's -- it's not.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why not?
MR. SHAPIRO: It's not a good patent
because --
JUSTICE BREYER: If you can tell me why not,
I'll have an understanding of where you're coming from.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, because you've -- you've
added to a law of nature just -- just a simple
observation of the man's little finger.
JUSTICE BREYER: Ah. Now, we're into the
problem. And that is the problem of how much you have
to add.
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: If you look at the Court's
cases, they seem to say Flook, one thing, and Diehr,
another thing.
And so, what is your view about how much has
to be added to make it an application of a law of
nature? And how would you put that in words?
MR. SHAPIRO: There are several things that
it can't be. After Bilski, which reaffirmed what was
said in Flook, a conventional step isn't sufficient,
because that's just adding a law of nature to prior art,
and prior art plus prior art equals nothing that is
patentable under the Flook decision.
And also, the step that you add has to
narrow your pre-emption --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Does that
render it nonpatentable because it's not novel? Is that
the reason why it -- it renders it nonpatentable?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not what we're
talking about here; we're not talking about novelty, are
we?
MR. SHAPIRO: No, we're really not. What
the Court -- what the Court said in Bilski is that a
conventional step plus a law of nature isn't sufficient,
and what the Court explained in Flook is that the law of
nature is part of the common domain; it's part of prior
art. So, if you're adding prior art to prior art, it's
nothing under section 101.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Shapiro, on that
question and the question Justice Scalia just raised,
the Government, you know, has taken the position that
you're under the wrong section. It's not a question of
patentability, but you've used the example of the
finger; you said it's obvious. So, why didn't you raise
the sections that the Government says would have been
the appropriate ones on the novelty or anticipation of
prior art and obviousness?
MR. SHAPIRO: That's a very important
question for the medical community. They need a robust
section 101 standard because under 102 and 103 you could
patent E equals MC squared. That's new. It's
nonobvious. But you can't patent it under 101 because
it's a law of nature.
And it's important to keep this -- this
common domain, the storehouse of information that
medical researchers need to have access to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's hard to resist the
temptation to peek into the obvious component or the
nonobvious component and then go back and apply it to
101.
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You want us to discipline
ourselves to talk just about 101 in this.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, no, I think -- we have
two arguments on this point. The first is both Flook
and Bilski peeked, and -- and they looked at the
conventional nature of the additional step, and
that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But once you say
"conventional nature," you're saying it's not novel.
If -- if the step is not conventional, it's okay. Why?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because it's novel.
MR. SHAPIRO: This -- this is the Court's
101 analysis in both Flook and in Bilski. So, we rely
on the latest decision, Bilski, which took exactly that
peek. But the other part of our answer is you don't
even have to peek. If the step doesn't narrow the
pre-emption of the natural phenomenon, if it's just an
incidental step that you need to use to observe the
natural phenomenon, which this blood test is, you can't
see the natural phenomenon.
JUSTICE BREYER: You are getting warmer,
but --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: But the -- the words, look,
"a simple conventional step." Hmmm. You see, whether
it's true in this case or not, discovering natural laws
is often a very expensive process.
MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And there's lots of
investment to be protected.
MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: But they can't, okay? So,
now you're going to say, well, what do they have to add
to that? And now we run into problems, because if you
have to just not look at the law of nature, don't look
at it when you decide whether it's novel, that not only
runs into conflict with prior cases, but it doesn't make
much sense because really the novel thing is often the
law of nature. But you say you have to add something.
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: What?
MR. SHAPIRO: Our view --
JUSTICE BREYER: And now, that's -- what do
you have to add? And it can't be that you take the law
of nature out and look to whether the rest of it meets
the patent criteria. It's -- it's pretty clear in the
law, and I can give you reasons why, but forget the
reasons.
But, look, what do you want to say the rest
of it has to add up to?
MR. SHAPIRO: In our view, the rest of it
has to add up to some step that limits the natural
phenomenon, so that you have a concrete, specific --
JUSTICE BREYER: You're going on a
limitation thing. So, you're going to say reject all
the 15 fancy hypotheticals I'll also spare you.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, in the Diehr -- in the
Diehr --
JUSTICE BREYER: But it's pretty easy to
think of the same problem you have, you know, which
doesn't have this infinity in it.
MR. SHAPIRO: In the Diehr case --
JUSTICE BREYER: Which unfortunately we have
to deal with.
MR. SHAPIRO: In the Diehr case, the natural
phenomenon was limited with steps that confined the
invention to a specific machine with doors opening and
closing, temperature being monitored so a product was
cured. It was a very specific, concrete invention.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I don't know
what -- you keep saying you have to limit the product.
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you told me that
there's a different range for the treatment of skin
diseases.
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, presumably, there
are different ranges for treatment of other diseases.
MR. SHAPIRO: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, this patent has not
limited exploration in there. You're claiming it has.
That's an issue that your adversary can speak to. I
think they say no in their briefs.
But the point is there's still a limit to
their range. You're claiming at one point they said it
was limitless, but if we disagree with that --
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, here's what --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- how do you answer
Justice Breyer's question?
MR. SHAPIRO: Here's what they say, joint
appendix pages 13 through 14, the second volume. This
is their patent. This is what it covers. It covers
hepatitis, lupus, Hashimoto's disease, Graves' disease,
Addison's disease, diabetes, arthritis. And they say it
even covers organ transplants. It covers heart, kidney,
and liver transplants. So, it covers every autoimmune
disease, and there are dozens and dozens of them --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Shapiro --
MR. SHAPIRO: -- and they do have different
numbers. That's the key point.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, do we -- do we add
up all of the diseases in the world, all the potential
diseases, and pick a percentage that this covers within
that range?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, this --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think Justice Breyer
is asking you for something that doesn't involve that --
MR. SHAPIRO: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that involves some
greater answer to the issue of limitation.
MR. SHAPIRO: I -- I think what the Court
did in Flook and what it did in Bilski is ask if a broad
field is being pre-empted. This is broad numerically.
It goes up to infinity. It covers dozens and dozens of
autoimmune diseases.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if -- what if you --
what if they just split up the patent? They -- they got
one patent number for arthritis, another patent number
for transplants, another patent number for each one of
the autoimmune diseases you're talking about?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would each of them be okay,
because it's --
MR. SHAPIRO: No, it wouldn't. That would
be LabCorp, where there was just one malady in the
patent; it was a vitamin deficiency with a natural
correlation. And Justice Breyer's opinion explained
that -- that is too pre-emptive of the natural
phenomenon.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but what my opinion
lacked, frankly, and that's sometimes the virtue of a
dissent in such a case, it lacked -- and Novartis points
this out very well in their brief -- it lacked an
explanation as to why what I thought was a patent just
said observe the correlation.
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why isn't that an
application of the law of nature? And if you look to
LabCorp's dissent to find an answer to that question,
you're better than I, because I couldn't find it.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, if -- if observe the --
that's another area of the breadth of this patent,
because there's no specific action the doctor has to
take. If the doctor has been informed of their range
and draws blood and thinks about it, that's -- that
is -- that is infringement. And a doctor here was
accused of infringement, treble damages sought against
this hospital in an injunction, because she thought
about this correlation, and she had completely different
numbers.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Is there -- Mr. Shapiro, is
there a patent that Prometheus could have written that
you think would have met the 101 test?
MR. SHAPIRO: Certainly. They could have
said when you reach 400, a real number, a specific
number, you adjust the dosage by 20 percent. That's a
treatment patent.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, if they had added a
treatment protocol, that would have been a completely
different case?
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes, and --
JUSTICE KAGAN: And what makes it a
completely different case?
MR. SHAPIRO: What makes it different is
that leaves room for Mayo Clinic to come up with
different numbers that it believes are more accurate and
more helpful for patients that are suffering from these
life-threatening diseases. We shouldn't require
Americans to get one opinion from Prometheus when they
want an opinion from Mayo Clinic.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I guess I'm not sure I
understand that. You said a specific number. But
suppose it uses ranges, but it also attaches treatment
decisions to those ranges.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, that could be specific
enough, again, then others could have a rival test that
-- that used a different treatment protocol. You'd have
to look at that.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, if the idea --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then why -- then why
didn't you answer her first question that it was -- that
it was not patentable? I have the same --
MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think I'm having the
same trouble as Justice Kagan.
MR. SHAPIRO: I think it would be
patentable.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why can't you just go --
the hypothetical was -- was one range, one result.
Pardon me. One measurement, one result. Suppose that
just continued over a range. And they said if it's 40,
then you have this; if it's 50, you have this.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, I don't think they
can -- they can wipe out the entire field so that others
can't have rival tests that use different numbers. They
tried to do that, by the way. They have a total of
eight patents here which use different numbers. But you
can't pre-empt the whole field so others can't make any
use of the natural phenomenon.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess the question -- the
question I'm asking is, in your response to me, is the
difference the -- the extent of the ranges, or is the
difference that there would be clear treatment decisions
attached to those ranges?
MR. SHAPIRO: I think you'd need both.
You'd have to look at it in practical terms. Is there
room for somebody else to make use of this natural
correlation, so that they could come up with different
numbers, different ranges, and different treatments?
And if there's room left, then there is no pre-emption
of the natural phenomenon. That's a vastly different
case, and that's what is missing here. I -- I do see my
time -- yes?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How many patents of this
type are out there?
MR. SHAPIRO: My view is there are only a
couple of them. LabCorp is like this. This one is like
this. The others that are referred to in this -- these
amicus briefs are vastly different. They're specific
patents with specific treatment protocols. And by the
way, the Government admits this particular patent is
invalid because it just attaches a mental step to prior
art. And there are only a couple of them to our
knowledge that would be affected by a decision in our
favor.
But a decision in our favor would protect
the storehouse of information that doctors really need.
They have to be able to look at the body's reaction to
injections, pills, chemotherapy, radiation; and
different hospitals have to have different opinions to
safeguard the health of our people.
So, we urge the Court to reverse, and I
would reserve the balance of our time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General Verrilli.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE
GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
Each party in this case has got a valid
point. Mayo is correct that you can't get a patent by
tacking a mental step onto an utterly conventional
process for administering drugs and testing their
effects. But that is an issue under sections 102 and
103 of the Patent Act.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Shapiro just told us,
when I asked him that question based on your -- your
brief, that people need to know up front that it's --
this is not a patentable subject matter; very important
that it be 101 and not 102 and 103. So, how do you
answer his rejection of the adequacy of prior --
anticipating prior art or obviousness?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think the answer,
Justice Ginsburg, is that from the perspective of the
United States and the PTO, it's exactly the opposite;
that importing these -- taking -- as Justice Kennedy
suggested, taking up the temptation to import a look
into novelty and nonobviousness into the 101 inquiry is
going to be very destabilizing; that 101, as Bilski
said, is a threshold eligibility test, and the question
is whether there is a process.
Here there is a process. It's the
administration of a drug that changes the body
chemistry, and there's then a test to determine the
extent of the change, and then there's an inference at
end of the test. That's a process.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That -- in your test
for that -- I see on page 9 of your brief you say: "a
classic patent-eligible process," "recites a series of
acts, performed in the physical world, that transforms
the subject of the process ... to achieve a useful
result." So, I have a great idea. You take wood, you
put it on a grate, you light it, and you've got heat.
That is -- recites a series of acts performed in the
physical world that transforms the subject of the
process, the wood, to achieve a useful result, which is
heat. So, I can get a patent for that?
GENERAL VERRILLI: No. It's not novel, and
-- and it's obvious.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, no. No.
Well, let me put it --
GENERAL VERRILLI: You can't get a patent
for it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's patent --
that's patent- eligible.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But that's our -- that's
our point, Mr. Chief Justice, that the -- that the right
way to look at this issue is under 102 and under 103.
And I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why? Why is the question.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Because --
JUSTICE BREYER: Look, anything can be
transformed into a process. Look at those real estate
ones, the -- I mean, you know, lawyers ones. I have a
way of making a great argument in the Supreme Court.
You know, you could patent some of your arguments.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL VERRILLI: Most are pretty obvious.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why not cut them off at the
pass? That is, if you're really prepared to say -- it
has to do with process, not machines. In the 19th
century, not many patent processes were granted. So,
they're rather special because of the special problem
the Chief just noticed. So, why not --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, here's -- here's --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- cut them off at the
pass, if you're prepared to say --
GENERAL VERRILLI: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I'll add a little bit
to this because I am questioning what you say here in
the other direction. You say if you just look at
everything minus the law of nature, hmm, and that is a
process that's otherwise known or obvious in light of
the prior art, you can't patent it. That seems to me
maybe it goes too far the other direction, because we
know that a lot of work goes into these laws of nature.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But our position is a
little different.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but I -- all right.
So, there are both parts, but I'm more interested in --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Your Honor, if I could --
if I could, I do think that one has to think about if --
what -- this seems like a straightforward case on these
facts, but if one thinks about the principles that Mayo
is advocating and applying them in a different set of
circumstances, I think you'll see the problems.
Take, for example, nuclear stress tests that
cardiologists use. That's a process. The patient gets
on a treadmill. The heart rate gets elevated.
Radioactive dye gets put into the body. It allows an
image to be taken of the heart with an X-ray machine.
That improves treatment. Now, the transformation there
is, as in this case, incidental to the process. It's
not the point of the process. But I don't think anyone
would suggest that that's not a patentable process, but
under Mayo's test, it's not a patentable process.
Similarly, I think -- I'm sorry,
Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I was just going to
say, what is the great advantage you see of putting this
critical question off until the 102, 103 analysis,
rather than cutting it off at the beginning, 101, which
I understand your friend to say is very important
because you don't want people to have to pause terribly
long to see if this is something they can -- can do?
GENERAL VERRILLI: As a practical matter, at
the PTO, Mr. Chief Justice, it doesn't make any
difference, because the PTO examiner gets a patent
application and answers every question, 101, 102, 103,
112, and makes a decision about all of them. So, it's
not going to lead to any benefit at the PTO.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about -- what
about litigation? Is it -- it is easier to throw
something out at the threshold level, isn't it, than to
move further down the line?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Not -- not if one moves
the novelty and the obviousness inquiries from 102 and
103 into 101. You've just taken --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm not so sure.
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- the complexity of 102
and 103 and moved it into 101.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We're talking about
summary judgment. It seems to me, rough rule, that
summary judgment would be much more -- much easier under
101 than 102 and 103.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think this case is a
pretty good illustration, Justice Kennedy, of why that's
not true. Think of -- if I may pick up on the question
Justice Scalia asked my friend, think of all the trouble
we're having in this case figuring out what the standard
is: How much pre-emption is too much? How do you even
figure out the scope of pre-emption? What you're
actually doing here is multiplying a whole new set of
very difficult, complex questions that you don't have to
answer if --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, General, I read you in
part as saying don't worry, because if something strikes
you as wrong with this patent, we're going to catch it
under 102. And I guess I'm not sure why that's true.
There was novelty here. There were some doctors who
figured out some new things, which was new ranges of
effective drug treatment. And so, why do you think
you're going to catch this as a 102 matter? If there is
a problem here, it seems to me not the fact that there
was something new. There was something new. It's
that -- it's something else.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But there was no new
process, Justice Kagan. There's exactly the same
process that already exists, with a new inference drawn
at the end, and that's why you can capture this under
102.
And I do think it's important to think about
it in terms of the points Mr. Shapiro is making. If
this patent had involved -- instead of standard old
blood tests, had involved a breakthrough new test that
allowed one to measure metabolite levels in a way that
could never have been done before, of course the person
who invented that could get this patent, even though it
would have the excluding effect that Mr. Shapiro has
identified.
Similarly, if the drug is a breakthrough
drug and a patentable drug, any use of the drug during
its patented period, including a use in a test like
this, would be an infringement under 271.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about the --
JUSTICE ALITO: Can I ask you about your --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about the discovery of
a new physical change in the body caused by an old drug?
You -- you find that it affects another part of the
human system. Is it -- is that discovery patentable?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think that's a
harder question, but there are, for example -- and I
think the Court was looking at some of this in the
Caraco case on Monday -- these follow-on patents with
respect to pharmaceutical products, where you patent it
originally for one use, and then you can later patent it
when you discover a different use. And, in fact,
there's an entire regulatory system set up to deal with
that. So, I do think there are circumstances in which
that can be patentable, yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could I ask you about your
argument that the correlations that were discovered and
that are involved here are not natural phenomena because
the thiopurine drugs are synthetic products of human
ingenuity? I found that a little difficult to
understand.
Suppose someone discovers the level at which
a human pollutant that's present in the atmosphere, in
the air or the water, has an adverse effect on human
health. Is that not a natural phenomenon?
GENERAL VERRILLI: The existence of a
pollutant in the air and its effect probably is a
natural phenomenon, but the difference here is that
there's a conversion of the natural body chemistry. The
metabolites wouldn't be in the body but for the
administration of these drugs.
And I do think if one were to say that
that's an unpatentable natural phenomenon -- and this is
what I mean about the destabilizing risk of thinking
about this as a 101 issue rather than 102 or 103 --
you're going to call into question lots and lots,
thousands in fact, of medical use patents where the
patent is administer a therapeutically effective dosage
of this drug in order to treat this disease.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but this drug is
patentable because it's a -- it's a -- what is the third
word? You know, it's a combination of nature. What's
the -- it's a composition of matter.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, Justice Breyer, but
those patents are not on the composition of matter.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, they don't have to be.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Those are process
patents.
JUSTICE BREYER: You'd say -- you would say
that where it's a new use there were some
specifications, and the specifications limited the area
to over here, I think -- and tell me if I'm wrong
because I'm really asking just a question. They limit
it over here, you see. And now we have a new use, and
we're saying this composition of matter is being used
over here. So, aren't you getting a -- simply a
different area where you're using a composition of
matter.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, but that's a use
patent. That's not a composition-of-matter patent
and --
JUSTICE BREYER: That isn't a process
patent.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, it's a process
patent.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is a process --
GENERAL VERRILLI: It is a process patent,
and the problem would be if one says --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. I'll think
about it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish your
sentence.
GENERAL VERRILLI: If one says that it's --
it's nonpatentable because all you're doing is patenting
the application of a law of nature, you're invalidating
all those process patents.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Bress.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD P. BRESS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. BRESS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I'd like to start out, I think, with a --
answering the question about what these patents cover
and what they don't. And I'm going to answer that
really not because I think it has any relevance to the
101 issue. I actually don't think it has any relevance
to 101. And I'll explain that it does perhaps have
relevance under 102 or 103 and why the difference
matters, if I may.
So, the district -- my friend is correct
that in the district court at the initial infringement
stage, before the court decided validity of the patent,
we argued that the right way to look at our numbers was
that we were claiming that if a doctor correlated or
associated a number greater than 400 with toxicity --
that's what we were claiming. That would be within our
claim. And if the doctor correlated under 230 with not
enough drug, well, we were claiming that as well.
Now, the district court agreed with that and
said that those were the ranges. But then it confused
things a bit, and that's where we get to the 15 percent
plus or minus point. The court also said -- and by the
way, I think this is a correct reading -- that when we
said about 400, that means plus or minus 15 percent of
400, and about 230 plus or minus 230.
And then the court held that there was
infringement, but it held it for two different reasons.
It said that -- that the patent for Mayo -- or the --
sorry -- not the patent, the product Mayo had, which, by
the way, was awfully close -- it was 235 to 450 -- fell
within the 15 percent on the top side. It didn't look
at the bottom side for purposes of this decision. But
450 was within 15 percent of 400. And it also said it
violated it because 450 is greater than 400.
At the court of appeals, we argued that the
right way to read the district court's opinion was that
you had to actually do that comparison, that the ranges,
the 15 percents, mattered and that the doctor, in order
to infringe, would have to look at the result and say is
this or isn't this greater than 400, and compare it to
400, or 230.
The court of appeals accepted that reading
of it, and that reading wasn't disputed by Mayo and, on
page 3a of the court of appeals' opinion, the court of
appeals says has to be compared to a predetermined
number.
I think you could go either way on this. I
think, frankly, the Court could go back to the district
court and look at that, perhaps. But the problem with
that is that there was no objection at the court of
appeals. And I think any objection to how the court of
appeals understood it is probably waived at this point.
Now for why it doesn't matter. If there's a
problem with the broad ranges here, in other words if
there is a problem with the fact that we're saying over
400 indicates toxicity, let's think about what is that
problem. Suppose we're right. I mean, at this stage,
the Court certainly can't presume we're wrong in that.
So, let's suppose that we're right. If we're right,
then we're simply claiming the fact that we found, that
after you administer the drugs and determine the
metabolite level, if it's over 400, it indicates
toxicity.
JUSTICE ALITO: And that's a natural
phenomenon.
MR. BRESS: It is a -- it's according to a
law of nature, and I will agree with that, Your Honor.
The term "natural phenomenon" as this Court has used it,
for instance, in Chakrabarty or in J.E.M., has referred
to the difference between things that exist in nature
with the intervention of man and things that exist
without the intervention of man. So, for example,
photosynthesis would be a process that is a natural
phenomenon. On the other hand, cross-breeding plants to
create a new variety, that wasn't a natural phenomenon.
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, but if photosynthesis
is induced by a lamp inside a building, then it's not a
natural phenomenon?
MR. BRESS: If it -- I think you could
probably get a patent. I think you could get a patent,
Your Honor, on the use of a lamp to induce
photosynthesis, but you couldn't claim the underlying
process, is all I'm saying, of photosynthesis.
According to this Court's --
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought of two examples
that will try to get you to talk about the problem
that's really bothering me here, anyway.
MR. BRESS: I'd love to, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well. A patent for --
we've discovered, at some expense, what counts as too
little fertilizer and what counts as too much to make
plants grow, a certain kind of fertilizer, very common.
Less than an quarter of an inch, forget it; more than
half an inch, you're going to burn the plant. Imagine
that. Law of nature, absolutely, about the chemicals in
the fertilizer. Patent: A method for determining when
there's too little or too much fertilizer. Put some
fertilizer in a field and measure how much there is,
wherein less than a quarter of an inch is too little and
wherein more than half an inch is too much.
Second example. Einstein never lived, but
at a vast expense, you invented E equals MC squared,
okay, a method for measuring energy which is very useful
that comes out of a cyclotron. Put some stuff in a
cyclotron, measure the stuff in and measure how much it
comes out, and keep -- wherein -- wherein the missing
part is -- think about -- wherein -- no, it says wherein
the missing part will be calculated as an amount of
energy according to a formula E equals MC squared. Yes.
If your patent is valid, why aren't the two
I just mentioned?
MR. BRESS: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: And if you -- if the two I
just mentioned are valid, there is something wrong with
this picture.
MR. BRESS: Okay, You Honor. I'll answer
them in turn, and then hopefully I'll get back to my
range and explain what the 102, 103 problems are with
that for you all as well.
The first patent you've discussed, which is
how best to use fertilizer essentially for plants.
Patent-eligible subject matter, but clearly novel and
novel in a way that you could get rid of on summary
judgment just as fast as you could get rid of it on 101.
There's no advantage, in other words, to saying I'm
going to label my summary judgment motion 101 and import
lack of novelty into that versus saying I'm going to
label --
JUSTICE BREYER: Where is -- where is lack
of novelty? Nobody has these numbers before. They
always thought it was a quarter, an eighth of an inch,
and -- it's huge novelty.
MR. BRESS: Your Honor, the law, as you well
know, recognizes that under section 103, if something
would have been obvious to someone with ordinary skill
in the art --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, my point --
MR. BRESS: -- it would fall under
obviousness.
JUSTICE BREYER: Assume with me the eighth
versus quarter of an inch, which is the law of nature
part, is not obvious.
MR. BRESS: Your Honor, the first person who
came up 10,000 years ago with the best way to do -- to
use fertilizer in a way that nobody had ever done before
would presumably get it. If your question is at what
level of sort of microns you can draw the line between
obviousness and novelty, those are -- there are
questions of fact embedded in that.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. My question is,
what has to be added to a law of nature to make it a
patentable process?
MR. BRESS: To make --
JUSTICE BREYER: And if you put too little
in the answer to that question, I believe I can take
things like E equals MC squared and make them
patentable.
MR. BRESS: Okay. Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: And if you put too much in,
you're going to wreck your own case. So, I'm very
interested in hearing --
MR. BRESS: Your Honor, I will --
(Laughter.)
MR. BRESS: I will try very hard not to do
either. Your Honor, this Court has looked at two
different ways to try to limit what are laws of nature,
abstract ideas, et cetera. One way it has looked at is
to say we need something physical; it has to be in the
world. In other words, you have to move things, you've
got to transform them, you have to apply machinery to
them, that sort of thing. So, we just know off the bat
you're not literally claiming just a principle in the
air.
So, in your example, if you used, you know,
machines, implements, et cetera, to do it, at least we'd
know that much. I think the problem that Your Honor is
raising is more in the second stage, which is, okay, it
isn't just a mere principle. I get that. But are we as
a practical matter pre-empting an abstract idea in such
a way that we are going to too greatly suppress
follow-on invention. And the classic example of that,
Your Honor, is the Morse case, of course.
In Morse, there were two different claims
that were being discussed, actually eight different
claims being discussed. But one of the claims had to do
with the actual invention of how you can make a
telegraph work. And Morse described a working telegraph
system, and he got a patent for that.
And the second one that he tried to claim
was the use of electricity to write at a distance. And
the reason he didn't get that one is that it was
expressed at such a level -- high level of abstraction,
that it would pre-empt many, many things that he had
never invented and never thought of. In fact, the
Court's words were wonderful in that case: For aught we
now know, the Court said, somebody may come up with
wonderful inventions in the future. And, of course, now
we have the fax machine, e-mail, et cetera.
That's the right way to think about it,
which is, is the -- for the second step, which is, is
what's being claimed at such a high level of generality
that it's going to inhibit future innovation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why couldn't someone come
up with the idea that at a level which is in the range
that's within your patent, if at a certain level for a
certain -- a person of a certain age, you administer a
new drug, you have a new result? Why isn't that like
the fax machine?
MR. BRESS: Your Honor, in that case, they
could get an improvement patent on it, first of all, no
question about it, that they could apply for an
improvement patent.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the --
MR. BRESS: They're building on it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- Petitioner is saying
that if you think about that, it's an infringement.
MR. BRESS: Well, there's a -- let me
explain why I think there's not a problem with that,
Your Honor. If you looked at the process for
vulcanizing rubber, which Firestone patented many, many
years ago, that involved you heat India rubber to a high
temperature, you add sulfur and mineral salts, and that
way you cure rubber into a usable way of using it.
Now, many years later in Diehr, this Court
looked at a -- an improved process, if you will, for
making rubber which -- which involved continuous
measurement and the use of the Arrhenius equation to
know when the rubber was cured. Now, there's no doubt
that if somebody came out with a second one 10 years
after Firestone had gotten the patent on -- on
vulcanization, they would have had to pay patent
royalties for 10 years before their second one would
have been free of patent royalties, right, because they
would have had to respect the patent that Firestone got.
So, the simple fact, in other words, that
there may be further improvements to what you've done
isn't where the Court has ever drawn the line. And I do
think that in conceptualizing where to draw these
lines -- because at the edges they're indeterminate,
they're elusive, and you're going to be somewhat
arbitrary. This is judge-made law. I think that what
you've got to look to is what you've done before.
And if we take this case in the spectrum of
what this Court has looked at, where you've got Morse on
one side, on that same side you've got Benson, which was
simply a formula for converting binary coded decimals to
pure binary, which the Court said you could use for an
infinite number of uses. It was way too broad.
If you look at Bilski, a general way of -- a
general -- the concept of hedging. Now, Bilski was
limited, admittedly, and this Court discussed it and
said, well, they've tried to limit it with the
conventional step of having the inputs determined by
random analysis techniques. I'd like to focus on that
for a second, because the Court said that was not
significant extra solution activity. It wasn't enough
to either render the process a physical one in the world
or to narrow its scope. Well, why is that? Because
random analysis techniques are themselves just an
abstract idea. So, you were adding one abstract idea to
another one, and it's no wonder the Court found that it
didn't narrow it to a patentable scope.
Now, on the other side of the line, we've
cases Tilghman. Now, if you look at Tilghman, Tilghman
was a patent on the fact that if you use water at a high
heat and high pressure, you can separate out from fat
bodies the fatty acids, on the one hand, and the
glycerin, on the other. And this Court approved a -- a
patent process on that. Now, that's of course a natural
law, Justice Alito, no question about it, in terms of is
it a law of nature that makes you do that? Yes.
But the Court was comforted in that case by
the fact that the patent wasn't trying to generally
patent -- monopolize the idea that water at high
pressure and temperature is going to in general break
bonds of chemicals. And it wasn't trying to either
monopolize the whole idea of how you can separate fat
acids and glycerin from fat bodies. There are other
ways, including the use of sulfuric acid.
Let's place this case in the continuum.
Now, we're not trying to patent the general broad idea
that you can use metabolite readings after you've
administered a drug to determine what the likely -- what
the best level of the next administration might be.
That would be kind of like the Morse patent, and that's
not what we're doing. What we're talking about here is
(a) a very specific class of drugs, the thiopurines,
used for --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Bress, here's what
you have not done. What you haven't done is say at a
certain number, you should use a certain treatment; at
another number, you should use another treatment. So, I
guess the first question is, why didn't you file a
patent like that? Because that clearly would have been
patentable. Everybody agrees with that.
MR. BRESS: I agree it would, Your Honor.
Two responses if I may.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And I think that the
difference people are noting or some people are noting
is that this is not a treatment protocol. It's not a
treatment regimen. All you have done is pointed out a
set of facts that exist in the world, that exist in the
world, and are claiming protection for something that
anybody can try to make use of in any way. And you're
saying you have to pay us.
MR. BRESS: Your Honor, I don't agree with
that description, but let me explain why.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I thought you might not.
(Laughter.)
MR. BRESS: All right, Your Honor, first of
all, the -- most of the claims here have three steps.
So, you've got an administering step which clearly
carries its own benefits with it. It's not -- it's not
novel, but it's certainly a process step and in and of
itself could be a process. We couple that with
determining -- you determine the amount of metabolites,
and the next step gives the doctor valuable information
in order to decide what to do next.
Now, why didn't we say, if it's over 400,
you must decrease? Because that doesn't correspond with
how doctors practice medicine, Your Honor. So, for
example, you've got a patient for whom you've got a
particularly sharp outbreak of Crohn's disease. You may
well be willing to go above the normal 400 level if your
other tests, your liver toxicities, your white blood
cell counts, et cetera, tell you that for this patient
at this time, given that condition, I'm willing to risk
some additional toxicity.
On the lower end of the scale, you might
have somebody under 230 who seems to be improving. They
seem to be moving towards remission. Why push it? Why
increase? And this is not unusual. And that's one of
the things I think I've got to stress here, is the
notion of a patent only in the end producing information
is old in this country. And, by the way, to produce the
information you're always going to have a step at the
end that is some kind of an algorithm. Might be a very
simple one but that takes the data, the raw data, and
turns it into something useful.
So, for example, in the 19th century, there
were patents on the use of electricity to locate veins
of -- of ore and valuable minerals in the ground. Now,
that patent didn't say after you found it, you've got to
dig it out. And according to Mayo, that would have to
be the next step. But, of course, you might have
reasons for digging it out or not digging it out
depending on your finances, depending how deep it is,
depending on what kind of ore it is, et cetera.
There were patents on how to navigate your
boat in the fog. It was a primitive sonar-based method.
And it didn't tell you in the end, you must steer your
boat to X and go there. It just told you a likely way
to go. There was not --
JUSTICE BREYER: What about a process that
all the steps are -- it's a process to -- to generate
some useful information.
MR. BRESS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right? Fine. And the
only new thing about it is the useful information.
Anything like that in history, any patent case that you
can -- that comes to mind that you say that was okay?
Can you think of one?
MR. BRESS: Actually, Your Honor, yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: What? Good. That's what I
would like to know.
MR. BRESS: Certainly. For example, there
was a patent on the -- and I can talk about modern ones
too, of course, but there was a patent on how to find
the -- where there is a leak in a water main, and it was
using vibration of the -- of the --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. That's not what
I'm thinking of. I'm thinking of a patent to find
useful information that chickens can only eat so much
chicken food. That nobody has ever known before, you
know. Okay. Now -- or something like that. But they
tell you the useful information that's going to be found
right in the patent. In other words, we have a patent
to discover some useful information, and here is the
useful information, and now here's -- see, this is what
their complaint is.
MR. BRESS: I'm not sure that I'm
understanding, Your Honor, because the patent that tells
you where to find the ore is telling you what you're
going to find.
JUSTICE BREYER: But you don't know what
you're going to find because you don't know how much ore
you're going to find? Let's see. Okay. Let me think
about it. Thank you.
MR. BRESS: Well -- and if we talk about
modern days, because I think it's helpful now to move
this forward, the Court has never suggested that there's
an extra statutory limitation that prevents patents on
developing useful information, even if they have a
mental step at the end. And what would -- what do we
have today? We've got inventions out there that,
through identification of biomarkers or measuring the
biomarkers, allow us to know which of 10 particular
cancer drugs is going to work for a particular patient.
We've got patents on methods that allow us
to identify the likely location and size of the next
earthquake in the San Andreas fault. We've got patents
that allow us to determine where there is a crack and
what type of crack in a nuclear reactor core.
Now, according to Mayo, because all of these
patents end with a mental step that produces
information, they're no good. Or, perhaps, if you look
at them and say everything up to that algorithm at the
end is old, you can't get a patent because you lack
novelty.
Now, it may be to -- it may be in fact,
depending on the particular invention, that you should
lose for lack of novelty on one or other of those, or
that you should lose for lack -- for obviousness.
But under 101, these are precisely the
sorts --
JUSTICE BREYER: What's your view? What's
your view?
MR. BRESS: Okay, Your Honor, I'm happy to
address that, too. The answer is no, and here's why.
JUSTICE BREYER: You should not lose it.
MR. BRESS: You should not lose it, and this
is why -- and I'll use my case as a wonderful example.
So, in our case, what existed before in the
prior art, so to speak, was people knew that you could
administer thiopurines for these particular diseases.
And, by the way, they're not all diseases; just -- we do
specifically exclude in these patents, for example,
host-versus-graft disease. We exclude leukemia, et
cetera. They're not in the asserted patents in this
case.
But, in any event, administration of
thiopurines to address certain diseases -- old in the
art. Different methods for finding analytes in blood
cells such as high-pressure liquid chromatography -- old
in the art, no doubt.
They were used together before we did them,
but why were they used? They were used by people who
were trying to come up with what we came up with. They
weren't doing it for fun. They were administering.
They were determining in order to try to find a new
treatment method, a new way of calibrating the right
dose for each individual patient based on their
metabolism, and help seriously ill patients.
And the idea that we are not novel because
people took some of the same steps along the way to
invention that we actually succeeded in is wrong. And,
in fact, this Court said so in American Wood-Paper,
where it said that incomplete and unsuccessful attempts
to invent will not render not novel the successful
inventor.
And, in Bell, the Court said the difference
between those who -- those who did not get the patents
and Bell was only the difference between failure and
success, and didn't say that because many of them had
used similar methods but had not understood that
continuous electrical lines as opposed to intermittent
or pulsing electrical lines was going to be the
difference for a working telephone.
Similar here. I don't think we ought to
lose on novelty for that ground. But let's put that to
the side, because that's for remand, and it's something
that, you know, hopefully, I'll get a chance --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose somebody thinks
you're wrong, that the numbers you've come up with are
wrong. And they want to develop better numbers that
will -- will help the medical profession. Your patent
excludes them from doing that, right?
MR. BRESS: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No?
MR. BRESS: And let's explain why not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.
MR. BRESS: And I'll even take for purposes
of this explanation my brother's example of over 400 and
under 230, because I don't think it matters. So, you've
got Dr. el-Azhary, who believes that the right ceiling
level is 300. Okay? So, if she sees a patient and
says, I'm going to -- you know, I associate 290 with
toxicity, that won't violate our patent in the least.
Our patent says if you associate over 400 with toxicity,
that's within our range. If she associates 290 with
toxicity, no violation.
Now, getting more to the point, though, if
we're totally wrong -- let's assume we're off base
and -- and this doesn't work at all. There's another
part of section 101 that addresses that, and that's
utility.
And, certainly, Mayo would be able to come
into court and say that patent has no utility. It's
completely wrong. In fact, it's killing patients. And
try to invalidate us on that ground. Similarly, suppose
at the very edges of the spectrums that we're claiming,
the answer is obvious. The answer is not novel. They
can seek to try to invalidate our patents on that basis
as well.
This -- these aren't 101 problems.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it seems to me
that's your -- the problem with your whole approach is
that every time you're pressed on 101, your answer is to
fall back to 102 or 103 or the utility part of 101. And
I'm just wondering why it's beneficial to essentially
eliminate 101 and say, oh, we'll catch everything later
on.
MR. BRESS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice; I
appreciate the question.
I -- I think that the answer is that when
the problem is lack of novelty, when the problem is
obviousness, the right place to go are the sections that
actually have very clear rules on how to apply those,
and that the problem with taking a short cut in that
instance is, essentially, the court would just imbue its
own notions or preconceived notions of what should be
patentable and pour it into it as opposed to following
those rules.
And, of course, if you're going to follow
these rules, you might as well follow them under that
section. Now, it doesn't completely leave 101 bereft.
This Court has said 101's very broad, but it does have
limitations. And if you look at a case like Morse --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but just to --
MR. BRESS: -- I think it helps explain it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sorry to interrupt.
Your friend's point is that if you don't do this -- if
you don't give 101 some more content, then the doctor is
going to have to start worrying right from the get-go
and then see, well, is there an exception that I might
be able to rely on, as opposed to being able to say
right away this -- I don't have to worry about this
patent; I can treat the patient in this way.
MR. BRESS: Well, Your Honor, again, if --
if it's very clear that we're not novel. For example,
if -- if the Government is correct here that facially we
lack novelty, it's no harder to proceed under 102 to
achieve that goal than it is under 101. If you're going
to proceed under 101, then we'll talk about principles
that 101 is for.
So, 101 -- I think the primary -- the two
things it's for -- it has to be a process in the
physical world, a hands-on process, and it can't be so
broad that it pre-empts all follow-on innovation. Those
are the two things -- you know, this Court speaks sums
about the statutory language, and it has to do some
work. That's the work that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, it's novel? What's
your answer about why this is novel?
MR. BRESS: Right. Your Honor, before
Prometheus -- actually, the inventors in this case in
Montreal came up with this method, doctors had no way to
tailor for each individual based on their metabolism the
right dosage of these powerful but potentially toxic
drugs.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Shapiro, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SHAPIRO: Justice Scalia asked the
critical question here: What if you think these numbers
are wrong? What happens with patients around the
country? Well, that's just what we concluded: These
numbers were wrong. They say you go up to 400, and
above 400, it's bad, it's harmful. We found that the
right range was 450 up to 700, and sometimes even above
700, to cure some of these very serious diseases. And
that different opinion was blockaded by this treble
damages lawsuit and request for an injunction.
So, the -- the wrong information is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He says the solution to
that is -- your saying their patent is not useful.
MR. SHAPIRO: That it's not useful --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That would be your defense.
MR. SHAPIRO: It's important that 101 be the
robust test here. This is the only provision under
which this Court has issued decision after decision for
150 years protecting the public domain. It's not some
rough gauge; it is the critical test defining what's in
the storehouse of information for medical researchers to
use. And to reduce it to a dead letter here would be
just contrary to this Court's precedents and very
harmful to the medical community. This is very
important to -- to doctors around the country.
Now, is this a natural process? The
question was raised. Of course, it's a natural process.
These metabolites come from the liver. They don't come
from a test tube. They don't come from a syringe. It's
just like cholesterol. If I eat in a French restaurant,
there's some human intervention there that gives me high
cholesterol. And if I eat wild strawberries, there's no
human intervention. But either way, the doctors get to
look at my cholesterol and hypothesize ranges that they
think are sensible. It's the very same phenomenon.
Entirely natural.
Now, this is a clean legal issue. Under
section 101, it's always been a legal issue. They say
section 102 and 103 are the most elusive questions in
the field of patent law. This is a 7-year-old lawsuit
against a hospital; it's cost millions of dollars to
defend. Two trips to this Court, two trips to the
Federal Circuit. We're still litigating this treble
damages case. It should be terminated under this
Court's precedents, as the district court did giving
summary judgment.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess my problem is,
if we call this just simply an application of natural
phenomenon or of a natural process, why are treatment
patents at all --
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, because --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- permissible, meaning
if someone finds out that at level 300, it's bad, and
tells doctors to stop, that's natural, too.
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. Well, I think that's
right. That's -- that is a second issue. But the first
issue here is the breadth of the pre-emption, which
precludes anyone else in the country from saying, as
Justice Scalia did, those numbers are wrong. And
patients can't use those numbers safely or they won't
get cured of this disease. For 20 years, the public is
stuck with the erroneous information.
Now, counsel suggests that it's narrow
pre-emption because it doesn't cover host-versus-graft
or leukemia. Those are not autoimmune diseases. Every
autoimmune disease is swept in here. And there are
dozens and dozens of them. They have different
characteristics. You don't take a "one size fits all"
approach to autoimmune disease. There are different
numbers for different diseases.
That's what Mayo is trying to do, to have
some personalized medicine for skin disorders. And they
said that -- that is an infringement and we're entitled
to treble damages and an injunction.
Now, is this like the Morse case? Yes, it
is like the Morse case. Prometheus is trying to
pre-empt diseases it never researched, and it's trying
to pre-empt numbers that differ from its numbers
fundamentally.
They have the number 7000 in their patented
number. We thought the number should be 5700. This is
a very dangerous toxic drug. If you get the -- the
wrong number set in concrete for 20 years, that is a
huge problem for patients, and there are millions and
millions of patients suffering from autoimmune disease.
So, we urge the Court to protect the
research process here that's so fundamental to American
health and to economy and the health care industry.
We thank the Court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:06 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
analytes 53:5 36:10 37:7 B
55:9
administering Andreas 51:23 argument 1:13 B 1:18 2:6 25:19
61:20 53:11 10:1,8 16:23 3:7 25:19 28:4 40:14 55:21
26:22 33:21 21:22 23:14 57:25 balance 7:4
46:7,7 admission 7:3 36:1 40:13 10:17,17 16:11 base 55:5
admittedly 55:14,14,20 Arrhenius 44:24 53:14 57:20
adopted 9:1 answered 10:11 15:8,8,8,18 bat 42:18
adversary 19:15 anticipating 52:21 53:5,7 2:14 3:8 25:20
age 44:3 15:17 asked 10:23 8:25 42:2
18:2 42:20 application 12:9 associated 36:12 best 40:18 41:16
20:9 AL 1:4 12:18 14:11 associates 55:2 47:6
44:19 algorithm 49:9 21:21 30:8 assume 41:12 better 3:17
41:23 Alito 32:15 33:6 applied 3:13 atmosphere bigger 8:7
46:7 allow 51:19,21 13:14 16:5 attached 24:12 14:14 15:4
allows 29:14 applying 12:12 attempts 53:20 45:21,22
American 53:19 appreciate 56:1 autoimmune 4:4 biomarkers
Americans 23:2 60:20 20:4,23 21:3 bit 28:18 36:18
34:3 48:13 arbitrary 45:13 awfully 37:2 48:22 53:5
44:3 analogy 6:24 area 21:25 34:16 a.m 1:14 3:2 boat 49:22,24
32:18 4:13 7:23 8:2 century 28:11 29:10 33:4 9:2,24
20:20,21 38:1 49:12 claim 12:12 complaint 51:2
burn 39:16 50:13 55:9 36:13,15 38:7 30:19
C 2:1 3:1 49:20 53:1 claims 43:5,7,7 16:5
calibrate 11:16 38:16 class 47:9 34:8,10,20,22
39:1,10 calibrating chance 54:9 classic 27:3 43:3 composition-o...
41:5 53:13 change 26:24 clean 59:13 34:25
calibration 32:18 clear 18:4 24:11 concept 45:22
44:6 12:25 changed 4:9 56:5 57:2 conceptualizing
47:11 call 34:1 59:24 changes 26:22 clearly 40:19 45:10
48:3,7 cancer 51:20 characteristics 47:16 48:9 concluded 58:5
capture 31:24 60:19 Clinic 3:16 9:5 concrete 18:11
52:15 Caraco 32:24 chemical 9:23 22:23 23:3 19:2 61:9
54:15,17 cardiologists chemicals 39:17 close 37:2 condition 48:24
55:25 29:12 46:23 closing 19:1 conditions 11:24
57:1,17 care 61:14 chemistry 26:23 coded 45:18 confined 18:24
case 3:4 6:20 chemotherapy 1:3 3:4 confused 36:17
12:12 17:9 25:12 color 13:8,9 Congress 11:4
14:3,7 18:20,23 21:15 Chicago 1:16 combination constant 6:23
22:18,21 24:20 chicken 50:21 34:7 constantly 7:2
18:1,12 25:24 29:7,17 chickens 50:20 come 22:23 content 56:20
20:14 30:25 31:4 Chief 3:3,9 24:16 43:18,25 continued 23:24
27:24 32:24 42:7 25:17,22 27:1 53:10 54:11 continuous
43:4,17 44:6 27:14,18,21 55:9 59:4,4,5 44:23 54:3
34:5,9,11 45:15 46:19 28:13 29:22,23 comes 40:1,3 continuum 47:2
35:2,6,9 47:2 50:7 30:6,11 32:16 50:8 contrary 58:24
40:10 52:19,20 53:2 35:11,18,22 comfortable 8:1 conventional
56:15 57:18 55:18,25 56:16 comforted 46:19 14:15 15:5
50:1,5 59:20 61:1,2 56:18 57:23 coming 13:24 16:13,16,17
51:7 61:18,19 61:16 common 15:7 17:8 26:1
cases 14:8 17:20 choices 7:8 16:1 39:14 45:25
catch 31:12,17 59:8,10 15:20 58:25 33:19
27:2 caused 32:18 53:6 compared 37:17 45:18
11:21 court's 3:12,13 decided 36:9 47:21 53:23,25 52:22,23 53:4
36:7,20 4:11 14:7 decimals 45:18 54:5 58:9 60:16,21
16:20 37:8 decision 3:12 different 4:4 61:3
58:24 59:21 25:7,9 30:9 7:17,18 9:6,20 60:23
22:7 60:15 decisions 23:7 13:9 19:7,11 dissent 21:15,22
covered 3:24 24:11 20:7 22:7,18 distance 43:12
covers 19:25,25 deep 49:19 23:10 24:3,5 4:10,22 6:14
crack 51:24,25 defense 58:16 25:2,13,13 37:8,20 59:21
60:14 critical 29:25 Department 42:13 43:5,6 22:4 36:11,14
58:3,21 1:19 53:5 58:10 37:10 48:14
58:5 59:1 cross-breeding 49:19,19,20 difficult 31:8 doctors 8:17
38:21 52:8 33:10 11:14,16 25:10
6:12 describe 6:10 digging 49:18,18 57:19 59:1,9
48:12 58:9 description 48:4 28:24 doctrine 11:3
46:16 44:25 60:12 26:18 33:24 disagreed 11:4 doing 31:7 35:14
50:15 curiae 1:20 2:8 determine 12:14 discipline 16:8 47:8 53:11
59:3 25:21 12:17 26:23 discover 13:4,5 54:14
4:22 cutting 30:1 48:13 51:24 discovered domain 15:7
6:14,17 cyclotron 40:1,2 determined 13:10 33:7 16:1 58:20
11:4 15:4 45:25 39:12 DONALD 1:18
20:19 D determining discovering 17:9 2:6 25:19
28:4 D 3:1 39:18 48:13 discovers 33:12 doors 18:25
35:23 damages 22:5 53:12 discovery 32:17 dosage 5:13
58:11 59:20 develop 3:25 32:20 22:14 34:3
37:7,14 60:25 54:12 discussed 40:17 57:21
dangerous 61:8 developing 43:6,7 45:23 dose 53:14
38:5 dangerously 51:15 disease 3:22 doubt 44:25
42:12 11:20 diabetes 20:2 20:1,1,2,5 34:4 53:7
44:21 data 49:10,10 Diehr 6:20 14:8 48:20 52:25 dozens 4:5,5,19
days 51:12 18:15,16,20,23 60:12,17,20 4:20 20:5,5,22
DBA 1:3 44:21 61:11 20:22 60:18,18
53:19,23 dead 58:23 differ 61:4 diseases 4:5,16 Dr 54:22
56:7,14 deal 18:22 33:3 difference 9:21 4:19 5:8 7:24 draw 41:19
58:19 December 1:10 10:3 24:10,11 8:6 19:8,11 45:10
61:12 decide 17:19 30:7 33:18 20:10,11,23 drawing 6:2
eliminate 55:23 existence 33:16 40:18 41:17 found 6:17
11:10 el-Azhary 54:22 39:24 24:2,6 39:20 46:8 49:15
12:14,17 embedded 41:21 expensive 17:10 59:16 50:23 58:7
31:16 energy 39:25 explain 36:4 figure 31:6 frankly 21:14
40:6 40:15 44:15 figured 31:15 37:20
34:4,5 entire 24:2 33:3 48:4 54:17 figuring 31:4 free 3:25 45:5
44:4 Entirely 59:12 56:17 file 47:15 freedom 8:18
61:8 entitled 60:24 explained 15:6 finances 49:19 French 59:6
15:22 39:24 explanation 32:19 50:15,19 36:7
33:9,21 40:6 42:3 21:17 54:20 51:5,6,8,9 friend's 56:19
47:9 equation 44:24 exploration 53:12 front 26:7
57:22 erroneous 60:13 19:14 finding 4:11 frozen 9:4
39:24 et 1:4 42:14,22 e-mail 43:20 Finish 35:11 further 30:14
42:3 43:20 48:23 Firestone 44:17 45:8
event 53:3 facially 57:3 first 3:4 16:11
example 15:14 53:19 55:11 fits 60:19 27:12,16,20,25
38:19 39:23 failure 53:25 14:8,15,18 29:1,5 30:5,15
48:19 49:12 fall 41:10 55:21 20:20 31:21 32:21
46:4,23 52:25 fatty 46:14 43:3 57:11 generality 43:23
excludes 54:14 fault 51:23 food 50:21 generally 46:20
exist 38:17,18 Federal 59:19 formula 9:23 34:21 55:4
59:23 42:12,23 43:4 11:23 15:19,25 44:13 60:24
half 39:16,22 50:10 51:4 importing 26:15 inhibit 43:24
46:14 hopefully 40:14 44:7,9 injunction 22:6
happen 5:21 hornbook 12:5,8 45:8 innovation
48:21 happy 52:15 59:17 improving 49:2 inputs 45:25
56:4 hard 7:10 16:3 hospitals 25:13 inch 39:15,16,21 inquiries 30:16
42:11 host-versus-gr... 39:22 41:3,13 inquiry 26:17
harmful 58:7,25 61:10 including 32:12 56:7
26:18 20:1 32:20 33:9,13 incomplete 42:8
30:10 headache 13:6 33:14 59:7,9 53:20 intermittent
34:1 health 25:14 hypothesize increase 49:4 54:3
39:16 33:15 61:14,14 59:10 indeterminate interrupt 56:18
42:7 hear 3:3 hypothetical 45:11 intervention
45:12 hearing 42:8 23:22 India 44:18 38:18,19 59:7
49:8 heart 20:3 29:13 hypotheticals indicates 38:3,9 59:9
51:6,8,9 29:15 7:11 18:14 individual 53:14 invalid 25:5
54:4,24 heat 27:7,11 57:20 invalidate 55:12
57:5 44:18 46:13 I induce 39:3 55:15
50:11 held 36:23,24 43:1 44:1 46:7 industry 61:14 35:15
help 53:15 54:13 46:7,21,24 inference 26:24 invent 9:9,22,23
25:4 helps 56:17 identification infinity 4:2,19 39:24 43:16
hepatitis 20:1 51:18 5:3 8:5 13:1 invention 18:25
high-pressure illustration 31:1 49:6,8 50:3,6 inventor 53:22
37:6,12 history 50:7 Imagine 39:16 51:1,15 52:3 investment
55:12 Honor 4:15,25 42:22 infringe 37:11 involved 32:3,4
47:15 41:5,15 42:9 important 11:18 32:13 36:8,24 involving 6:20
20:18 28:15,18 29:3 12:23 13:6 lawyers 28:3 litigation 30:12
27:22 29:22,23 30:6 15:12 18:18 lead 30:10 little 3:21 13:7,9
36:3 30:11,18,21 19:3 26:7 28:3 leak 50:16 13:10,15 14:2
60:7 31:1,3,10,22 28:5,25 34:7 leave 3:21 56:13 28:18 29:2
32:14,15,16,16 41:6 42:18,21 leaves 7:16 33:10 39:13,19
44:25 50:12,22 left 24:18 lived 39:23
41:1,9,12,22 known 28:22 let's 6:25,25 location 51:22
44:10,12 46:17 51:9 54:7,17 look 7:24 11:16
40:21,23 50:1,5,11,18 LabCorp 21:8 leukemia 52:25 17:7,18,18
51:7 52:13,17 24:25 60:16 18:3,7 21:21
4:7,21 56:18 57:15,23 label 40:23,25 38:9 41:19 27:22 28:1,2
58:2,13,16 Laboratories 43:14,14,23 28:20 36:10
59:23 60:3,10 1:4,7 3:5 44:1,2 47:6 37:3,11,21
8:1,8 61:16 lack 40:24 41:1 48:21 54:23 45:14,21 46:11
J.E.M 38:16 52:5,9,10 56:3 60:4 52:3 56:15
9:7,13,16 57:4 levels 32:5 59:10
10:1,2,7 K lacked 21:14,15 life-threatening looked 6:20
Kagan 20:6 22:9 21:16 5:7 11:24 23:1 16:12 42:12,14
11:7 22:16,20 23:4 lamp 38:24 39:3 light 27:7 28:22 44:16,22 45:16
12:1,8 23:12,18 24:8 language 57:13 limit 5:3 6:16 looking 32:23
13:3 31:10,22 47:11 latest 16:22 19:4,17 34:18 lose 52:9,10,17
47:20 48:5 Laughter 17:6 42:13 45:24 52:18 54:7
keep 15:25 19:4 28:6 42:10 limitation 18:13 lot 28:25
16:3 40:3 48:6 20:18 51:14 lots 17:12 34:1,1
Kennedy 6:8,14 law 11:2 12:3,5 limitations love 39:10
6:19,23 7:10 12:6,8,9,13,18 56:15 lower 4:11 49:1
18:1,12 7:14 10:1,7,10 13:10,13 14:1 limited 18:24 lowers 5:2
19:3 10:13 11:9,12 14:11,16 15:5 19:14 34:16 lupus 20:1
16:3,8 23:13 15:6,24 17:18 45:23
20:6,9 23:17,21 26:15 17:22 18:2,5 limitless 19:19 M
30:18,21 31:1 21:21 28:21 limits 18:10 M 1:16 2:3,13
43:25 44:10,12 35:15 38:14 line 30:14 41:19 3:7 57:25
key 7:13,20 20:8 39:17 41:5,13 45:9 46:10 machine 3:24,25
kidney 20:3 41:23 45:13 lines 45:11 54:3 18:25 29:15
24:8 killing 55:11 46:17,18 59:16 54:4 43:20 44:5
25:17,22 kind 8:16 39:14 laws 17:9 28:25 lingering 3:22 machinery
47:7 49:9,20 42:13 liquid 53:6 42:17
knew 52:21 lawsuit 58:11 literally 42:19 machines 28:10
medicine 3:20 morning 3:4 17:1 24:13 36:12 37:18
44:23 mental 25:5 56:15 61:1,2 Neither 11:5 numbers 3:18
30:5 mere 42:25 moves 30:15 15:22 31:7,15 41:2 54:11,12
34:8,10 met 22:11 moving 49:3 31:15,19,19,21 58:3,6 60:10
37:25 metabolism multiplying 31:23 32:4,18 60:11,21 61:4
43:1 53:15 57:20 31:7 34:15,19 38:22 61:4
metabolite 3:17 44:4,4 50:6 numerical 12:25
metabolites narrow 14:20 15:23 16:5
9:5 59:4 60:14 26:17 O 2:1 3:1
23:3 method 39:18 narrowed 4:22 nonpatentable objection 37:22
29:8 39:25 49:22 narrower 4:8 14:22,23 35:14 37:23
37:1,15 53:13 57:19 natural 4:6 8:19 normal 48:21 observation
52:1 methods 51:21 9:8,10,13 notice 13:8 14:2
60:22 53:5 54:2 16:25 17:2,3,9 noticed 28:13 observe 17:1
42:3 millions 13:13 24:19 33:8,15 notion 49:6 16:4 27:13
28:3 mind 50:8 38:11,15,20,22 Novartis 21:15 41:14 55:14
38:4 mineral 44:19 38:25 46:16 novel 14:22 obviously 10:11
minerals 49:14 59:2,3,12,24 16:16,19 17:19 obviousness
minutes 57:24 11:1,3,5,9,9,12 53:16,21 55:14 52:10 56:4
39:20 40:3,5 13:10,14 14:1 novelty 15:1,17 oddity 12:24
modern 50:14 14:12,16 15:5 26:17 30:16 offer 5:5,9,12
23:23 molding 6:21 16:16 17:18,22 41:2,4,20 52:6 offering 3:17
Monday 32:24 18:3 21:21 52:9 54:7 56:3 oh 9:12,15 17:11
monitored 19:1 35:15 38:14,17 nuclear 29:11 55:23
51:18 monopolize 42:13 46:18 number 4:2,3,11 16:17 17:15
15:20 monopolized necessary 4:16 6:3,15 11:21 40:9,13 42:5
34:2 11:5 need 13:8,9 11:21 21:1,1,2 42:24 50:8,22
58:22,25 Montreal 57:19 15:20 16:2 22:13,14 23:5 51:9 52:15
parts 29:4 25:3 32:24 pharmaceutical possibly 8:24
53:4,6 pass 28:9,16 35:16,25 49:13 phenomena potentially
50:14 8:24 9:8 10:4,5 53:1,24 55:15 3:16 4:6 16:25 powerful 57:21
9:5 21:10 15:22,23 18:4 27:3 40:19 24:7,19 33:15 30:5 43:1
23:2,3 19:13,25 20:25 patient 3:22 33:18,23 38:12 practice 48:18
58:10 21:1,1,2,9,17 29:12 48:19,23 38:15,21,22,25 precedents 3:13
25:13 25:4,25 26:4 54:23 56:25 photosynthesis precisely 52:11
28:5,11,23 11:23 22:25 39:5 precludes 13:1
25:19 34:3,25,25 61:10,11 42:15 46:4 56:8
35:3,5,7 36:9 pause 30:3 57:10 predetermined
53:12 39:2,2,11,18 peek 16:4,23,24 9:11 prepared 28:9
45:5,6 46:12 26:7 30:3 Pieces 11:5 pressed 55:20
52:5 37:3,5 39:14 40:18 presume 38:5
58:14 59:16 percents 37:10 plus 14:17 15:5 prevents 3:16
9:17 15:14 27:8 point 7:6 16:11 pre-empt 4:6
23:23 26:8 29:19,20 person 9:4 32:6 29:18 36:19 pre-empted
16:23 34:6 41:24 personalized 55:4 56:19 pre-empting 6:6
32:19 42:4 46:9 60:23 pointed 47:23 43:1
41:14 47:17 56:9 person's 13:7 points 21:15 pre-emption
patented 9:19 perspective 32:2 3:15 5:16
51:19,20 32:12 44:17 Petitioner 44:12 33:17 24:18 31:5,6
61:6 Petitioners 1:5 position 4:17,22 60:8,15
patents 24:5,22 58:1 15:12 29:1 21:11
57:11 37:1 34:1,18 35:25 really 15:3 10:3 35:21
Prometheus 1:7 58:3 59:3 reason 14:23 restaurant 59:6
5:25 22:10 28:19 reasons 12:3 10:4 23:22,23
15:7,8,8 61:2 41:21 59:15 49:18 44:4
17:20 proposing 4:11 REBUTTAL retained 7:2
26:10,11 protect 25:9 R 2:12 57:25 reverse 25:15
52:21 61:12 R 3:1 recites 27:3,8 RICHARD 1:21
39:2 protecting 58:20 Radioactive recommend rid 40:20,21
18:18 protocol 7:3 raise 15:15 reduce 58:23 10:13,20 12:1
31:18 22:17 23:10 raised 15:11 referred 25:1 12:10,11 13:3
37:21 47:22 59:3 38:16 27:21 29:3
39:8 protocols 25:3 raising 42:24 regimen 47:23 35:9 36:10
44:15 provision 58:18 random 46:1,6 regulatory 33:3 37:8 38:4,6,6
56:3,3,6 PTO 26:14 30:6 range 4:8,10 reinstate 3:12 43:21 45:5
61:10 30:7,10 5:15,20 6:1,5 reject 18:13 48:7 50:5,24
40:15 60:12 20:12 22:2 relates 10:22 54:22 56:4,21
pulsing 54:4 23:22,24 40:15 relevance 36:2,3 56:24 57:17,21
26:2,20 push 49:3 24:12,17 31:15 56:23 ROBERTS 3:3
27:3 put 14:12 27:7 36:17 37:9 remaining 57:24 25:17 27:1,14
28:2 27:15 29:14 38:1 59:10 remand 54:8 27:18 29:23
29:12 39:19 40:1 rate 29:13 remission 49:3 30:11 32:16
42:1,6 54:7 raw 49:10 render 14:22 35:11,18 55:18
34:12 putting 29:24 reach 22:13 46:4 53:21 56:16,18 57:23
reaction 11:10 renders 14:23 61:16
39:5 Q 11:13,16 25:11 request 58:11 robust 15:20
44:16,22 quarter 39:15 reactor 51:25 require 23:1 58:18
48:11 39:21 41:3,13 read 6:11,11 research 61:13 room 5:4 7:16
50:1,2 question 10:11 12:13 31:10 researched 61:3 9:24 22:23
59:2,3 10:23 11:8 37:8 researchers 24:15,18
61:13 12:4,5 15:11 reading 36:20 16:2 58:22 rough 30:22
19:22 21:22 readings 47:4 resist 16:3 royalties 45:4,5
26:3 56:4 24:1,13,24 spare 12:2 18:14 steps 18:24 48:8
34:19 short 56:6 18:11,25 19:2 straightforward
31:11 46:24 32:10 55:12 7:20 9:22 stuff 40:1,2
38:2 series 27:3,8 simple 14:1 17:8 spectrum 45:15 subject 4:10
40:22,24 serious 9:4 58:9 45:7 49:10 spectrums 55:13 26:8 27:5,9
48:2 seriously 53:15 simply 34:21 spent 13:12 40:19
60:9 Services 1:3 3:5 38:7 45:18 split 20:25 submitted 5:25
35:8,13 33:3 47:24 size 51:22 60:19 39:24 40:6 succeeded 53:18
40:4 61:9 skill 41:7 42:3 success 54:1
55:1 Shapiro 1:16 2:3 skin 11:20 19:7 stage 36:9 38:4 successful 53:21
2:13 3:6,7,9 60:23 42:24 suffering 22:25
6:13,22 7:9,13 58:13 32:3 15:5
7:16 8:4,10,12 somebody 24:15 start 35:24 suggest 29:19
8:14,17,22,25 43:18 45:1 56:21 suggested 26:16
14:21,25 9:12,15,18,21 49:2 54:10 States 1:1,13,20 51:13
16:15,19 10:5,9,12,14 somewhat 45:12 2:7 5:7 6:4 suggests 60:14
21:5 10:19,21,24 sonar-based 25:20 26:14 sulfur 44:19
32:14,16 11:2,11,14 49:22 stating 4:13 sulfuric 47:1
54:10,16 12:7,10,21,24 sorry 3:23 28:17 statutory 51:14 summary 30:22
58:2,13 13:11,16,19,21 29:21 37:1 57:13 30:23 40:20,23
60:10 13:25 14:6,13 56:18 steer 49:23 59:22
15:19 16:7,10 sorts 52:12 15:5 16:13,17 suppose 6:25
42:24 17:14,23,25 3:23 4:7,21 5:9 18:10 25:5 33:12 38:4,6
45:1 18:9,15,20,23 5:12,17,20 26:1 43:22 54:10 55:12
46:2 60:7 19:5,9,12,20 19:3,6,10,13 45:25 48:9,11 supposed 8:15
20:13,16,19 20:17 24:22 51:16 52:2 Supreme 1:1,13
55:7 21:4,7,19,24 57:15 59:23 STEPHEN 1:16 28:4
59:14,15 22:9,12,19,22 60:3 2:3,13 3:7 sure 13:16 17:14
30:18 terribly 30:3 36:20 37:19,20 transformation U
51:3 test 3:17 5:5,9 37:23 38:3 29:16 underlying 39:4
33:3 26:25 27:1 49:5 50:9 51:9 transplants 20:3 understood
29:20 32:4,12 51:12 54:6,21 20:4 21:2 37:24 54:2
59:5 56:2,17 57:8 treadmill 29:13 unfortunately
13:4,5 18:2 thank 3:9 25:17 54:10 31:16 47:13,14 33:23
27:6 35:17,18 51:10 thiopurine 3:20 47:22,23 53:13 unsuccessful
42:2 55:25 57:23 33:9 59:25 53:20
54:19 61:15,16 thiopurines 47:9 treatments unusual 49:4
theirs 6:5 52:22 53:4 24:17 upper 5:3 6:16
30:17 5:20 thought 10:1 58:10 59:19 61:12
51:11 thing 13:7 14:8 43:16 48:5 45:24 24:3,5,7,15
14:9 17:21 61:7 trips 59:18,18 29:12 32:11,12
30:21 50:6 three 7:4 48:8 31:3 34:19,24 39:3
things 5:17 threshold 26:19 true 17:9 31:2 40:18 41:17
36:18 38:17,18 throw 30:12 try 39:8 42:11 45:19 46:12
48:23 8:12,17,22 9:6 48:24 55:20 46:20,23 47:3 60:11
50:23 10:14 12:3,5 tissues 7:3 53:10 60:22 useful 27:5,10
44:19 23:16,17,19 top 37:3 turns 49:11 58:14,15
24:1,13 26:12 total 24:4 two 4:8 5:1,17 uses 9:5 12:15
29:10,18,21 toxic 57:21 61:8 16:11 36:24 utility 55:8,10
32:21,23 33:4 38:3,10 48:25 47:19 57:8,12
46:17 35:9,24 36:2,3 transform 42:17 type 24:23 51:25 v 1:6 3:5
wasn't 37:15 53:19 10-1150 1:6 3:4 25 2:7
water 33:14 12:16 14:12 15:23 16:6,9
24:4 25:4 work 28:25 43:9 36:3,4 40:21 60:4
37:2,8,19 working 43:9 55:23 56:13,20 4
27:12,16 40:20 41:16,17 54:5 57:5,6,7,8 4 57:24
28:7 42:14 43:2,21 world 9:25 58:17 59:14 40 23:24
29:1 44:20,20 45:20 20:10 27:4,9 101's 56:14 400 4:2,18 5:2
30:5,15 45:21 48:1 42:16 46:4 102 15:21 26:3,9 6:15,15 11:21
31:21 49:7,24 52:23 47:24,25 57:10 27:22 29:25 22:13 36:12,21
33:16 53:13,17 56:25 worry 31:11 30:8,16,19,24 36:22 37:5,6
57:19 59:9 56:24 31:13,17,25 37:12,13 38:3
ways 42:13 47:1 worrying 56:21 33:25 36:5 38:9 48:16,21
1:10 33:20 57:4 59:15 58:6,7
17:25 55:23 57:6 written 22:10 30:8,17,20,24 5
24:24 we're 3:11 14:3 wrong 4:3 11:21 33:25 36:5
23:25
14:25 15:1,3 15:13 31:12 40:15 41:6
8:11
2:14
61:7
46:10 51:17,21 X 37:3,5,10 58:8,9
white 48:22 X-ray 29:15 58:20
8:13,20,21
23:3 30:3 wonderful 43:17 44:18,21 45:1 60:12 61:9 9 27:2
43:19 52:19 45:4 58:20 2011 1:10
45:1,4 51:19
