IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
STEVE A. FILARSKY, :
Petitioner : No. 10-1018
v. :
NICHOLAS B. DELIA. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, January 17, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
Petitioner.
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Petitioner.
MICHAEL A. MCGILL, ESQ., Upland, California; for
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States,
as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner 18
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL A. MCGILL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 60
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next this morning in Case 10-1018, Filarsky v. Delia.
Ms. Millett.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
When a private attorney is temporarily
retained by the government to work in coordination with
or under the direct supervision of government employees
in fulfilling the government's business, in getting the
government's work done, that attorney is entitled to the
same immunity that a government employee performing that
same function for that same government would receive.
In this case, that is qualified immunity. That rule
comports with the history and policy concerns that have
animated this Court's section 1983 and immunity
jurisprudence.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's across the board,
Ms. Millett, the rule you just stated? Is there any
situation in which a private attorney engaged to assist
a government office in the performance of a public
function would lack qualified immunity? Or is it simply
wherever a government agency employs a private attorney
to assist it in doing its work, that attorney will have
qualified immunity?
MS. MILLETT: I think it -- it may well be
the latter rule, the more broader one, but for these
purposes, the Court only needs to decide the situation
when they are working in coordination with or under
direct supervision of government employees. And I want
to clarify that answer because how one defines doing a
public service -- for example, if a State government
appoints somebody to represent one of their police
officers who's sued in a 1983 action, if there's five
defendants, the attorney general can't represent them
all; they will all commonly appoint people and will pay
them -- some States will pay them from the -- from the
State fisc.
And so, they'll be paid by the government to
perform a governmental function in that sense, but their
allegiance there is to the individual employee, not to
the government. The same with public defenders.
So, there are certain situations where
someone can be retained by the government in that sense,
paid by the government in that sense.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why does it matter whether
the privately retained attorney works in close
cooperation with government employees? Suppose in this
case Mr. Filarsky had simply been hired to go off and
perform this investigation and, at the end of the
investigation, report the results to the town? Would
the case come out differently then?
MS. MILLETT: I don't think that would, but
in this -- but I think it depends on what one means by
coordination with or supervision. And with respect to
attorneys, attorneys can never be an independent
contractor in relationship to their client in the way
the prison was in Richardson. Attorneys just can't be.
They are always, in the sense of the rule that I'm using
it, working for their client agency, their client
government, and under its control and authority. And
the decisions they make are the decisions of that
client.
And that's why the whole -- the whole reason
we should have this rule is understanding what immunity
protects. It protects government decisionmaking,
governmental conduct, and its ability to maneuver with
an area -- in an area of reasoned decisionmaking.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I -- I suppose you can
argue that there is a built-in limitation because the
question doesn't even come up unless there's state
action. So, there has to be close enough cooperation so
there's state action. I had never thought that when a
private attorney gives an opinion letter to a government
agency or government entity at its request that there's
any state action there at all. So, that question -- so,
there the question just wouldn't even come up; am I
correct? I assume --
MS. MILLETT: Right, because, certainly, the
state action limitation both limits the operation of
this rule. There's many times attorneys or others who
work with the government will not implicate the state
action rule. And that's sort of the irony of -- of this
case, and I think it would not be uncommon in attorney
cases. The only reason this was a tort, or an alleged
tort, is because the government was involved, because
governmental actors took his advice, conducted a
search -- he didn't -- issued an order -- he didn't.
And yet we have -- we're left in this is odd world where
the only way this tort, constitutional tort lawsuit, can
go forward is without the government.
Now, 1983 is about deterring governmental
conduct, but this Court's immunity jurisprudence says we
don't over-deter and we want to allow the government to
operate within a realm of reasoned decisionmaking. And
they need to operate within that realm, get reasoned
advice and make reasoned decisions, regardless of
whether the source of the advice is a temporarily or
permanently retained attorney.
The need is for reasoned decisionmaking.
And if you over-deter, which is what an action against
the private attorney who is now charged with litigating
and defending the government's allegedly
unconstitutional conduct, standing all alone while all
the government actors have walked away -- that turns
section 1983 on its head.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But your test -- and
this is -- I think goes broader than the articulation of
the test -- doesn't give this private attorney much
assurance by itself. It's sort of a multifactor, is he
coordinating, is he under the supervision, is he really
doing public service? I mean, if the idea is to give
him sufficient breathing room so he doesn't stop, and
when, as in this case, he's threatened that we're going
to sue you if you do this, he has to think, well, now,
am I being supervised by the government? Am I
coordinating with the government? Or I -- am I telling
them what -- it -- the test itself undermines the
asserted purpose.
MS. MILLETT: Well, two responses to that.
First of all, the State law requirement -- the state
action requirement that Justice Kennedy referred to will
up front require allegations by the plaintiffs that will
discuss the coordinated -- presumably the coordinated
action. There's going to have to be some level of
coordination.
But the second reason is, as I said, with
respect to attorneys, I don't think this is going to be
a hard question because they are forever agents and
fiduciaries. They can never be the independent
contractor that you had in Richardson. They are always
answerable to and working for their governmental client.
And when I say "supervision" here, I don't think the
test here is -- is an on-hands, day-to-day looking over
your shoulders. The government has to be able to get
the advice of professionals and to trust them --
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose -- suppose the
government hires an attorney to do an independent
investigation; it hires an outside attorney precisely
because it does not want to be faced with allegations
that it has manipulated the outcome of the investigation
because its own conduct is at issue. So, they say
you're going to be independent, hands-off; we're not
going to interfere at all. But that would still in your
-- in your submission satisfy the coordination
requirement?
MS. MILLETT: It -- it would in this sense,
because there would be -- and I'm assuming here we're
not talking like a Bivens appointment or something like
that. But here -- because understand what happens in
that situation. They're being appointed to investigate
for the government and on behalf of the government.
And it's not usually because we say the
government writ large may have done something that would
create a conflict. It may be an individual employee or
something. That's where the conflict comes. But
they're working for the government. The government is
their client. They are not freewheeling independent
contractors. And --
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the difference
between that and the prison situation? The private
prison -- the guard in the private prison is performing
a function that has been delegated to that or assumed by
that entity pursuant to a contract. I don't understand
exactly what the difference is.
MS. MILLETT: The difference is -- there's a
practical difference and then a legal doctrinal
difference. The practical difference is that, in
Richardson, it was a quite unique situation where the
government really had washed its hands of the prison
operation. It had put the day-to-day operation of the
prison, the decisionmaking of the prison, how we treat
the prisoners, entirely in the hands of a private
contractor, subject only to what this Court said was
very limited supervision, essentially in contract terms.
But it had ceded that authority, and it did not exercise
a control. It did not exercise the day-to-day
decisionmaking. And that's where we get into the
doctrinal point.
So, the decisions that were being made there
and that there were -- the lawsuit concerned, there
wasn't a single governmental defendant named in that
case. It was just the private -- the private guards
that were at issue there. And the decisions that were
made were the private company's decisions.
And so, this Court said there that's not
what qualified immunity is out -- is out to protect. It
is to protect what? The government's decisionmaking,
the special concerns that arise when you are bringing
lawsuits that are designed to regulate, limit, deter
governmental decisionmaking. We have to protect that
area of reason.
If the government's not making the decision,
they've passed the buck, they've handed it off, then
there's nothing to protect.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why isn't that the case
here?
MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It seems to me that
there's enough evidence that the lawyer was the one who
held the investigation; the people who attended the
meeting between the lawyer, the Respondent, and the
other personnel that were there were acceding to what he
was doing. The chief -- he goes to the chief and he
says: I want you to do this. And the chief is relying
on him, not his own independent judgment, to issue the
command that's contested here.
So, that sort of puts your argument on its
head because it appears that he was more the independent
investigator --
MS. MILLETT: No --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- than he was the
individual under the control of the agency.
MS. MILLETT: Okay. Well, first of all -- a
couple of responses. First of all, no, that's nothing
like Richardson. This was the government's
investigation. They initiated it. They brought him on
to the team for his expertise, much like prosecutors
might bring on a psychologist to evaluate a criminal
defendant. Now, are the prosecutors going to sit there
and say, you know, Psychologist, you should ask this
question? Or are they going to defer to the medical
expertise? That's a --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This argument seems to
fall under what Justice Scalia termed a functional test,
that he's serving just like any other government lawyer.
If you were going to fit this case under the Richardson
majority test, how would you do it?
MS. MILLETT: And I'd do that -- first of
all, I keep -- I'm putting it right in -- in
Richardson's language, which said it was reserving this
very question, and that is, when an attorney or any
individual is working in close coordination or under the
supervision of government officials in the performance
of an essential function.
And so, that makes clear that Richardson was
deciding not that situation, the handed-off turnkey
situation. This -- there's no turnkey here. This is
Mr. Filarsky being brought on to the team.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so, independent
counsel would not be covered. I mean, if you have, you
know, a counsel appointed because -- to show that the
administration is disinterested in this prosecution and
you get independent counsel, the Attorney General says:
I will not interfere with him. The President says: I
will not interfere with him. Then him you can -- you
can sue without any immunity, right?
MS. MILLETT: No. And that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? He's not working in
close coordination. He's not subject to supervision.
The whole purpose of an independent counsel is to
eliminate supervision.
MS. MILLETT: Yes, but independent counsel
is still sued in the name of the United States. Their
client was the United States Government. That is
whom -- that is the interest in which they worked. They
were -- they had a client that they were answerable to.
They were not freewheeling independent contractors; they
were attorneys with a client.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Weren't the
prison guards who were -- who were suable in
Richardson -- weren't they suable under 1983 as acting
under color of law?
MS. MILLETT: This Court assumed that
question; it did not answer it in that -- in that case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the whole issue would
have been a nonissue if they -- if they couldn't be
sued.
MS. MILLETT: This Court assumed it. I
think it's fair to assume when you're operating a
prison, although I think to -- there's a reason this
Court reserved it, because the question there is --
certainly, the corporation --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MS. MILLETT: -- was under color of law,
whether the individuals who worked for the corporation
would also be under color of law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't you think the -- the
two should go pari passu, as we say, that if you can be
sued for acting under color of law, you ought to have
the defenses that people who are acting with legal
authority have?
MS. MILLETT: Well, this Court's already
crossed that bridge in cases like Wyatt, where, for
example -- and it does because the State law requirement
can sweep broadly in some situations.
So, I don't think in a situation like
Wyatt v. Cole, where you have private plaintiffs
pursuing their private agenda and they simply invoke a
State law, that that makes them integrated with the
government in the way that an attorney is, and certainly
the way Petitioner was here, that they're not part of
the governmental team, and they're not making -- they
weren't making decisions in the interest of the
government. There was no governmental decisionmaking to
protect there, and that's what -- the rationale this
Court gave for denying qualified immunity in Wyatt.
The key here is that this is -- you cannot
protect governmental decisionmaking in this context
without protecting the source of advice for that
decisionmaking.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Lawyers are not
supposed to be cowed by the exigencies of the situation.
We're worried in qualified immunity with protecting
governmental actors, to make sure they will feel
comfortable doing the right thing rather than being
intimidated in the situation we had here.
Lawyers have that professional obligation in
the first place. So, why does a lawyer need the -- the
defense of qualified immunity?
MS. MILLETT: There are a couple of reasons.
First of all, that rationale would mean no government
lawyers get the protection either, because they have
that exact same obligation of fealty, and we don't apply
that rule. That hasn't even been questioned. And the
reason we don't is we understand that this is a more --
it's a more layered inquiry into timidity.
First of all, we don't even want the
subconscious pressures that would come with full-freight
liability for governmental conduct to any angry third
party even subconsciously interfering with the decisions
of government lawyers temporarily or permanently
retained.
Secondly, we want the government to be able
to get the advice, to be encouraged to get the advice.
Section 1983 must support governments getting legal
advice to counsel them in complying with the law that
section 1983 enforces, but government will be deterred
from obtaining legal advice if the cost of getting an
attorney -- especially if you're a small town,
municipality, county, you don't -- can't afford a
full-time staff, and the cost of getting an attorney is
all those things that qualified immunity wanted to
protect against.
Our decision -- reasonable decisionmaking
that we thought was protected by qualified immunity is
now on trial. And we have to be there as witnesses, and
a jury is going to assess liability for a reasonable
governmental decision.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Millett, our cases have
said that we're supposed to look not only to policy but
also to history. Would you disagree with the premise
that a person in your client's position historically
would have had at most an actual malice -- a malice
defense or a reasonable cause defense? Would a person
have anything more than that?
MS. MILLETT: They would have had the same
sort of good-faith defense that this Court in Harlow
turned into qualified immunity, both as lawyers
working --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, in Wyatt, we said that
that was a very different kind of immunity than the
Harlow immunity, and we said historically it provided no
basis for giving Harlow immunity.
MS. MILLETT: It -- it -- the Harlow
immunity came from the same roots. Well, the -- what
happened in Wyatt was we said we will turn that into
protection for the government when we need to protect
the special functioning of government. You had no
need -- the Court had no need to do that in Wyatt
because there was no governmental decisionmaking at
stake there.
But the -- the same type of defense -- this
Court recognized in Richardson --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, I take it that your
answer is, yes, it would only have been a malice
defense, but that doesn't matter, notwithstanding Wyatt.
Is that your answer?
MS. MILLETT: The -- the answer is that it
is the same type of defense that this Court recognized
in prior cases as supporting qualified immunity when
needed to protect the decisions of the government. And
Richardson itself recognized this --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Doesn't that suggest really
that we don't have a historical test anymore, that
really all we're looking to is policy considerations?
MS. MILLETT: Not this case at all, because
you've got layers. You have layers of -- of history.
You have the history recognized in Richardson for -- for
lawyers who are working at the behest of the government,
that specific history. You have the general history
where -- where attorneys were provided a reasonable and
good-faith, malice, and probable cause type of defense,
which again is the type of -- the type of defense that
gets turned into qualified immunity when needed to
protect government's reasoned decisionmaking.
If I could reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Millett.
We'll hear from Ms. Saharsky first.
MR. MCGILL: Oh. I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's all right.
Ms. Saharsky.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MS. SAHARSKY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Petitioner may assert qualified immunity on
the same terms as the fire department officials because
he was working side-by-side with them and under their
supervision on a personnel investigation. And this is
really exactly the situation that the Court reserved and
anticipated in Richardson, that when you have a
situation where private and government workers work
closely together and you deny qualified immunity to the
private person, it would directly affect the ability of
the government employees to do their jobs.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, if they don't
work closely together at all and it's just this one
fellow conducting the investigation, he wouldn't have
qualified immunity?
MS. SAHARSKY: No. This is a situation in
which there's a very close working relationship --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. No,
he --
MS. SAHARSKY: I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- I'm wrong, or
no --
MS. SAHARSKY: He likely would have
qualified immunity. The closeness of the relationship
is very apparent here, but as a general matter, it is
our position that when people are doing the business of
government, private people, can be sued under section
1983 or Bivens, there should be a presumption in favor
of qualified immunity.
And Richardson is not to the contrary
because that is a fairly unique case in which the
private prison was so removed from the day-to-day
workings of government officials that it would not have
furthered the purposes of qualified immunity to give
qualified immunity to the folks in those situations.
So, what we're talking about, like --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's just hard to imagine
anything more imbued with state action than imprisoning
someone. That's -- that's the problem I have in
thinking about the case.
MS. SAHARSKY: Right. I mean, several
members of the Court said that in Richardson. And
the -- the Court's opinion really talked about the
uniqueness of the situation there, that Tennessee was
doing something really out on the forefront in terms of
giving the day-to-day decisionmaking to the folks in
that situation in the private prison, and only checking
up. There was monitoring, you know, annually. It was
really not much ongoing monitoring at all.
And the -- the Richardson Court, you know,
found that to be a unique situation, but it
distinguished the situation that you have here, where
you have people --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Wasn't Richardson really all
about how market forces would make immunity unnecessary?
And how is it that market forces play any different role
in this case than they do in Richardson?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, we understand the
Court's discussion of market forces to be really
important in the context there, where you don't have
individuals who are working closely with government.
The Court needed -- and the purposes of
qualified immunity wouldn't be served in terms of
deterrence and in ensuring good government
decisionmaking. But the market forces discussion was
the Court reassuring itself in those circumstances that
there would still be private prison companies that would
be willing to take on the business of government and
would be able to do it, you know, consistent with the
Constitution.
So, we don't understand the Court to have
been setting out market forces as a test for qualified
immunity, because, as your question seems to suggest,
taken to its logical conclusion, any time a private
person is being hired by the government, you could say,
well, there's a market for the person, couldn't someone
else fill those shoes, et cetera, et cetera. So, we
think the Court's market forces decision was -- was
fairly confined to what the Court itself described as a
unique situation in Richardson. And the Court --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think market forces
do operate differently here, or is it basically the same
thing?
MS. SAHARSKY: We do think that there's a
difference in that the attorney in this situation has
private clients that that attorney can work for, whereas
the private prison company really could only work for
the government. But --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that in this
case the -- the firm that the lawyer was associated with
said its dominant business was giving advice to local
government, local municipal government units. So --
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes. I mean, that was an
important part of the firm's business, but Mr. Filarsky
is trained as an employment lawyer and has, you know,
broad training and expertise in employment-related
matters. So, there's certainly other work that could be
done. But, you know, we thought the core of the Court's
decision in Richardson was really focusing on the
purposes of qualified immunity and whether they would be
furthered by giving them to the private prison and the
private prison guards.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You seem --
MS. SAHARSKY: The Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You seem to assume or to
acknowledge or to concede that market forces do not
operate for government employment, that all government
employees are doing it out of love, that --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, why does market
force eliminate this defense for somebody who's an
employee of a private company but not for somebody who's
an employee of the government?
MS. SAHARSKY: I'm sorry, Justice Scalia. I
didn't mean to suggest that we thought that the market
forces inquiry was particularly relevant to the -- to
answering the qualified immunity question. I'm just
explaining that the way we read the Court's opinion in
Richardson, which obviously the members of this Court
are the experts on, is that the Court was looking to
market forces to reassure itself after it determined
that the purposes of qualified immunity just wouldn't be
served by giving an organization that was so far removed
from the day-to-day workings of government the
protection of qualified immunity. The Court just -- the
market forces really was just something unique to that
case.
And what we think is the most relevant is
what the Court started with both in the decision in
Wyatt and in Richardson, which is, is it necessary to
give qualified immunity here to make sure there's
principled and fearless government decisionmaking? It's
the business of government that's important. And in
this case, although Petitioner is an attorney who has
his own fiduciary obligations, it is certainly the case
that when he was threatened during the conduct of this
personnel investigation, that that is something that
potentially could chill his behavior.
And to the extent that he cabins the advice
that he gave to the fire department officials, that
affects the ability of government to do their job. And
I might give the Court --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that would be a
breach of his duty as an attorney.
MS. SAHARSKY: I'm saying --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And he would be subject
to malpractice in that case. You -- seriously, I find
this whole argument about market forces with respect to
attorneys representing people odd because there's a
whole slew of unemployed lawyers who will be happy to
take on any government service they can.
So, going back to the -- that's -- what I
consider the central argument you're making, which is:
Will it chill advice? And I'm not sure how it can,
given the independent fiduciary duty that an attorney
has to zealously guard his or her client's interest.
MS. SAHARSKY: I'm saying that an attorney
is in a difficult position there, and it's the same
position that a government attorney would be in, and the
Court has extended qualified immunity to government
attorneys who are in this position, either giving legal
advice, like in the Burns case, or serving as
prosecutors. And there's just no difference when he's
operating in this case that would make him
distinguishable from a government attorney.
To answer another suggestion, I think, in
your question, the Court talked about, in terms of
deterrence and chilling, making sure that there were
talented candidates who wanted to take on the position
of government. So, the Court has never said, you know,
we're concerned about wiping out the market entirely.
It said, you know, if there is a segment of the market
that will not take on this business anymore, that's a
fairly serious problem when we need to make sure that
the government of -- of business is done.
And if I can just make -- give the Court
another example to, perhaps outside the context of this
case, see how a private person being denied qualified
immunity would affect government employees, consider a
fire department that has some full-time fire department
personnel and also some volunteer firefighters. When
they're working together in fighting a fire, you don't
want the volunteer firefighter thinking: Should I break
down this door? I might face personal liability.
You want him to make fearless decisions
because whether he breaks down the door or not is going
to directly affect the ability of the other folks who
are trying to go into those homes, trying to stop the
fire, to do their jobs.
That would also be true in the context of
court security. The United States Marshals Service
sometimes uses private security guards, and we have
direct supervision and control over them, but --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, what -- what if
it's a 100 percent purely volunteer fire department? I
mean, the town, whatever, contracts, out-sources,
whatever, but it's just run by volunteers. Is your
answer the same?
I'm trying to get at your point about
they're working with or coordinating with government
employees. And your argument seems a little derivative.
You're saying the whole point is to protect the
government employees, and you have to have qualified
immunity for the non-employee to do that. But does your
argument apply when there are no government employees
around?
MS. SAHARSKY: It's just difficult in the
fire department situation, even if there is an
all-volunteer force, that there wouldn't be some type of
direct supervision by the mayor, by the city council, et
cetera. You know, that's -- particularly in the local
government situation, those folks would tend to work
fairly closely together.
It is, in the case of deterrence and wanting
fearless decisionmaking, a primary concern that we have
about protecting government. But we need to protect the
individuals to protect government. So, we do need to
make sure that their decisions aren't chilled, that
persons like Petitioner are willing to take on
representation of this kind. And the Ninth Circuit's
suggestion that no private person should be -- should
get qualified immunity, even when they're doing the
day-to-day business of government, is just one that
can't be reconciled with this Court's decisions in Wyatt
and Richardson.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's another part of
qualified immunity, and I know it's not teed up in this
case, but why is it reasoned decisionmaking to recognize
you can't enter a home without a warrant, but you can
tell the occupant to bring out every item you want to
see? It seems to me that that's not -- that there --
there's clearly established law to say that's wrong.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, the Ninth Circuit found
that it wasn't clearly established law. I understand
that it's a fairly difficult Fourth Amendment question.
But as you say, it wasn't teed up in this case. It
wasn't -- there wasn't a petition on this question. It
wasn't raised in the brief in opposition. You know, in
light of the fact that the Ninth Circuit found it wasn't
clearly established, it probably wouldn't make sense for
the Court to address it.
One thing I might point out along those
lines is that both the district court made a finding, on
page 49 of the Joint Appendix, and then the court of
appeals made a finding in its opinion, and this was the
reason that the court of appeals found it wasn't clearly
established, was because there was no attendant threat
in terms of employment consequences to Respondent in
this case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Another question that's
not teed up and I guess not presented -- I'm just
curious to know about the history of the case. Was it
argued that there was no state action here? Or is there
-- and in your view, is that a very simple question to
answer?
MS. SAHARSKY: In terms of the argument,
Petitioner conceded throughout the litigation that he
was a state actor. In the complaint, Respondent
actually suggested he was an employee of the city. In
terms of whether he was asserting the authority of State
law, it does seem fairly clear that he was asserting the
authority of State law here.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. McGill.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL A. MCGILL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. MCGILL: Thank you. Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Petitioner has not demonstrated a historical
basis of immunity at common law for somebody in Mr.
Filarsky's situation, but the Petitioner has also not
shown that the immunity's purposes also serve Mr.
Filarsky's situation here.
I want to put those two issues aside. We'll
talk about that in a minute, but I want to address the
issue that has been most -- discussed the most, which is
the Petitioner's test.
The test that the Petitioner proposes that
this Court adopt is one that is very difficult to use.
The test is simply whether the individual is temporarily
retained in the -- in the functional equivalent of a
government employee, considering three factors. The
three factors are: one, the nature of the role
performed; the close supervision and/or coordination
with a government official --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what about your test?
What is your test?
MR. MCGILL: Well, our test is Richardson.
I think Richardson is the correct analysis. The Court
starts with looking at a historical basis of an immunity
at common law and then from there works to the policy
reasons.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose you have a
lawyer who's a part-time employee. Does that matter?
MR. MCGILL: A part-time employee of a --
JUSTICE ALITO: A part-time employee of a
government unit.
MR. MCGILL: Well, he would be -- he would
receive Harlow immunity.
JUSTICE ALITO: So, the difference, your
difference, is between an employee and an independent
contractor?
MR. MCGILL: Absolutely.
JUSTICE ALITO: And isn't that often a very
difficult determination under the law?
MR. MCGILL: No, I don't -- I don't think
so. Any time -- like in Mr. Filarsky's situation, Mr.
Filarsky is a for-profit law firm. You know, he sells
himself as a -- as an experienced professional in the
field providing legal services to the city --
JUSTICE ALITO: But there are a lot of --
there are a lot of -- I think -- well, there are a lot
of law firms. I think all law firms other than public
interest firms are for-profit firms, and the attorneys
are part-time employees of municipalities and other
government units to perform various functions, part-time
judges, part-time prosecutors.
MR. MCGILL: Well, the Court has made a
distinction in its past decisions about functions that
are integral to the judicial process. So, when you talk
about a judge or a prosecutor, that's a -- that's a
special function. That's sort of a different situation.
But never has there been an immunity for an
attorney just because they happen to be an attorney.
There is no historical basis for that. Neither the
Petitioner nor the Respondent nor the seven amici
have found --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, now you're talking
about history. But I want to know how we are -- how the
courts are to determine and why it should matter how a
municipality sets this up.
Suppose the town had hired Mr. Filarsky as a
part-time town employee. So, he has a certain -- he has
a 1-year contract or 6-month contract or something for a
certain amount of money to perform services for a
certain number of hours. You would say that he would be
entitled to qualified immunity then.
MR. MCGILL: No I would say that he would
not be entitled to qualified immunity.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why?
MR. MCGILL: Because he's a --
JUSTICE ALITO: Because he's an employee.
They pass a resolution saying he's an employee of the
town.
MR. MCGILL: Well, they passed a resolution
to hire him and his firm to provide those services on a
temporary basis or a basis of 6 months, but he still is
an outside attorney, and he's probably got -- has other
clients and has other interests involved. And the
situation is different. It's an entirely different
system when you have a private law firm operating for
profit contracting --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Year-long employment is not
employment? If I accepted a government job for only a
year, I'm not a government employee? I don't understand
that.
MR. MCGILL: Well, as I understood the
hypothetical, if -- if that individual is -- is working
as an employee of the city, then --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He's working as an
employee. He's hired for 1 year. It's a 1-year
contract. Why -- why does that make him not an
employee? Or is it the fact that he's a lawyer? And
all lawyers have a certain independent responsibility.
They can't do some things that government superiors
might tell them to do, right? So, are you going to say
all lawyers are -- are -- cannot plead qualified
immunity?
MR. MCGILL: Well, our position here in this
case is that Mr. Filarsky was not necessarily acting in
the role of an attorney. He was functioning as an
internal affairs investigator. And it's doubtful that
he would have maintained an attorney-client relationship
with the city given that he was hired or retained to
conduct a factfinding report.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It makes it even easier
then. I -- I thought the attorney thing would help you,
but if he's not even functioning as an attorney, he's
functioning as a government investigator.
MR. MCGILL: But if he has other clients and
he works for profit, then he operates in a different
system.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. MCGILL: Then he's not subject to the
same system --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But if they had employed
him for a year, exclusive employment, no other clients,
you'd say that's a different case?
MR. MCGILL: If they employed him for longer
than a year?
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I'm saying a year; in
fact, 364 days.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay? And the deal was
you're -- you're going to work for us and nobody else.
You have no other clients.
MR. MCGILL: Well, I think then that
that's -- that's where you'd have to look at the policy
considerations. If you feel --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, I understand that.
How do you look at them?
MR. MCGILL: If he's still --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does that come out -- case
come out the same way or not?
MR. MCGILL: No, I don't think it does. If
he's taking that position for that term, that 1-year
period, to make money for profit, and the next year he's
going to work for somebody else --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Everybody takes a position
to make money for profit. How many government employees
work for free?
MR. MCGILL: But he may be, in that
instance, trying to form a relationship with that
municipality and enter into a longer term contract.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, he's not. He's not --
I mean, yes, he may be, I guess. But assume he's not.
He's just a lawyer who's been hired for 364 days to work
for nobody but the -- but the government. And you still
say that he has no -- no immunity in what he does.
MR. MCGILL: He gets --
JUSTICE SCALIA: To investigate for the
government.
MR. MCGILL: Absolutely not. He gets no
immunity in that situation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Two years, though? Three
years? I'm a lawyer who --
MR. MCGILL: The longer you go --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- enters a contract for
life with this -- with this government to investigate.
At that point, does he get the immunity?
MR. MCGILL: No, because there's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Still not?
MR. MCGILL: There is no historical basis
for immunity. It just wasn't there. For that function
that -- that Mr. Filarsky was providing, there is no
historical basis for it. And, typically, that would end
the Court's question. That would end the inquiry. You
only get to the policy considerations --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But don't we have
cases --
JUSTICE ALITO: I thought you were drawing a
distinction between employees and independent
contractors. Is that the distinction you're drawing or
not?
MR. MCGILL: Well, the distinction really
is, if you are a private actor, you're subject to a
different set of rules. You're subject to the market
pressures and the competition that are going to correct
your behavior and are going to satisfy the same purposes
that immunity provides.
JUSTICE BREYER: What would have happened if
Abraham Lincoln today were there? And I gather what
happened is they thought the local prosecutor is good,
but Lincoln is better. So, we'll let Lincoln prosecute
this case.
Now, in your view, Abraham Lincoln would not
have had immunity, but the local prosecutor would have.
MR. MCGILL: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: They did exactly the same
thing, by the way; it was just that Lincoln had a better
reputation. Every word was the same.
MR. MCGILL: As a historical basis, there
does not appear to be immunity for private prosecutors.
However, this Court over the years has provided immunity
for the judicial --
JUSTICE BREYER: But in your -- I'm asking
you, in your opinion, when I write this opinion, is I
could say not even Abraham Lincoln, when he acted as a
public prosecutor brought in for the occasion? In your
opinion, he should not have the immunity that Joe Jones,
the local prosecutor, would have?
MR. MCGILL: I --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm just trying to get your
opinion.
MR. MCGILL: I think that that's a much
closer call --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is it because it's Abraham
Lincoln or --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You should say section 1983
didn't exist. That's your answer --
MR. MCGILL: What?
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- to that one, right?
MR. MCGILL: But I think it's a much closer
call because he was engaged in a prosecutorial function,
which this Court over the years --
JUSTICE BREYER: But investigatory
functions -- they don't get immunity. So, if Lincoln
had looked into it and said, you know, I've looked into
this; I don't think we should prosecute. And what they
said was use your judgment.
MR. MCGILL: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, there are
problems with both standards both ways. This is one of
the things that -- that is bothering me.
MR. MCGILL: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Imagine in this case the
lawyer sat down with the other firemen, the supervisor
and so forth, and they said -- not necessarily this
event; they said we want to do X. And the lawyer said:
I have to tell you, it's unclear whether X is
constitutional or not. Now, because it's unclear, I
also have to tell you that if you do it, you will not be
held personally liable.
Now, can a lawyer give that advice? Yes.
When he does, of course, he's subjecting himself to
personal liability. Now, it's that conflict that is
worrying me, among other things.
So, what do we do about that? The lawyer is
being asked to give advice to the client. Under the
canons of ethics, he ought to have their interest at
heart, and in doing that, he's subjecting himself to
what could be hundreds of thousands, millions of dollars
worth of damages or whatever in suits for malpractice.
Is there a way that we side with you out of that
dilemma?
MR. MCGILL: I don't think that that's
necessarily an immunity question; it's more of a
liability question because it very well may be that --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no. What I'm
assuming in the question is, since it's a close
question, he has to worry about a court saying: You
were wrong in saying it was legal. It was not legal.
The matter was unclear, but it was not legal.
At that point, he becomes subject to much
damages. But, of course, the others do not, and he had
to tell them go ahead with it. You understand my point.
MR. MCGILL: I do.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, what is the answer?
MR. MCGILL: But -- but I think what -- what
it is -- the difference there is that there you have an
attorney just providing advice, which is different than
what happened here, where you actually had the attorney
engaged --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that may be, but what
I'm trying to work out is what is your set of rules? If
we don't say -- if we don't say you have immunity, and
you agree that this is a bad dilemma at least in my
hypothetical case, I'm trying to work out what set of
rules you advocate in order to either say, well, that's
too bad, the dilemma is there, we can't get around it,
or something else. That's why I want your answer.
MR. MCGILL: If the attorney under those
circumstances could be held liable for a constitutional
violation for simply giving advice and he happens to be
a private attorney working for profit, then he wouldn't
have immunity.
JUSTICE BREYER: I change it slightly, and
he puts them up to it.
MR. MCGILL: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because I don't know why he
couldn't. I mean, you know, he says go do it. Or, in
other words, my hypothetical -- okay, go ahead.
MR. MCGILL: I think the answer's the same.
If somehow under those circumstances the attorney could
be held liable for giving that advice, and he's -- he's
a private attorney, and he doesn't pass the Richardson
test, then he would not be entitled to immunity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your case --
MR. MCGILL: So, there's no -- there's no --
I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, you can finish
your answer.
MR. MCGILL: There's certainly no -- there
is no historical basis of immunity just for giving legal
advice. The Petitioner hasn't pointed this Court to any
firmly rooted tradition of an immunity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your case
highlights -- I think is a very good example of why the
lawyer ought to have qualified immunity. I mean, this
was a case where it looks like there's a lot of
threatening and bullying going on. I mean, the -- the
lawyer says -- you know, we're going to figure out a way
to name you, Mr. Filarsky. You're issuing an illegal
order. If you want to take that chance go right ahead.
You might want to think -- take a minute to think about
it.
I mean, it seems exactly the kind of
situation for which qualified immunity was -- was
developed. We want Filarsky to give what he -- do what
he thinks is the right thing in this situation. We
don't want him to be worried about the fact that he
might be sued. And you have a lawyer here saying, well,
if you do that, I'm going to sue you. So, Filarsky
naturally, or some lawyer in that situation, is going to
think, wow, do I really want to run that risk?
Isn't that exactly why we have qualified
immunity?
MR. MCGILL: No. And the reason for that is
that because Mr. Filarsky is a private individual, he
doesn't need qualified immunity. You know, Richardson
is decided in 1997, but in 2003, the Ninth Circuit
issued its decision in Gonzalez v. Spencer. And in
Gonzalez v. Spencer, the court held that private
attorneys like Mr. Filarsky don't need immunity; they
don't get immunity. So, the law in the land since
2003 --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's easy
for a judge to say because they're absolutely immune,
but for the lawyer who is sitting there and saying --
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- saying I'm going
to sue you, if you were -- well, you are a lawyer. And
you're sitting in that situation. Isn't that going to
enter into your mind? You say, well, sue all you want;
I don't care; this is the right answer.
MR. MCGILL: But, for nearly a decade, the
law within the Ninth Circuit has been that private
attorneys don't receive immunity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. MCGILL: And that -- the fact that is,
is that Mr. Filarsky knew going into that -- that
investigation that he wouldn't have immunity for
anything he -- he did. And it didn't deter him; it
didn't make him --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how do you
know?
MR. MCGILL: Well, because he -- in the
light of the threats that he received, he still went
forward with the -- what was deemed to be an
unconstitutional search. So, the policy purposes of,
you know, wanting to prevent unwarranted timidity and
deterring talented candidates from working for the
government --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, he had -- he
had the chief issue the order, right?
MR. MCGILL: Well, the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And then the chief
later on says, well, he told me to issue the order. I
mean, I'm not quite sure that things went exactly as
they would if you had qualified immunity.
MR. MCGILL: Well, Mr. Filarsky said -- and
this is what he said on the record; it's in the
transcripts in the Joint Appendix -- is that he's
issuing the order on behalf of the department. That's
what he said. And then there was some -- some
discussion back and forth between Mr. Delia's attorney
and Mr. Filarsky, and that's what led to the
formalization of -- of the order.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I understand that
there is a lot of bad, cowardly legal advice being given
in the Ninth Circuit.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't really know that,
but you don't know the opposite, either, do you?
MR. MCGILL: I don't.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why didn't you
cross-appeal on the clearly established law? Because
then -- then you could concede, so, arguendo, he had
qualified immunity, but the advice that he gave was
contrary to clearly established law.
MR. MCGILL: So, why did the Petitioner --
or the Respondent not cross-appeal?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why didn't you bring up
that -- that issue?
MR. MCGILL: I think it was -- that's sort
of the law of the case, is that the Ninth Circuit found
that there was a constitutional violation. So, we
obviously didn't want to appeal that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, but -- but whether it
was clearly established. In other words, what we had
here was a recognition: We can't go into the house; we
can't go into a house, private house, without a warrant.
So -- in fact, Filarsky said something about I know a
way -- a way to get around that; we just tell them to
bring out the items.
MR. MCGILL: Right. I -- my personal
opinion and our position has been is that it -- the law
was clearly established on that. Why the decision was
made not to cross-appeal on that, I'm not -- I'm not
sure. But --
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you saying it's clearly
established that there isn't a difference between going
in and looking for the insulation, et cetera, and
telling him to bring it out? Is it clearly established
that the -- that as a condition of employment in a
situation like this, the employee cannot be required to
submit to a search?
MR. MCGILL: I -- I think it's pretty well
known that the house is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well,
particularly --
MR. MCGILL: -- is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, even as -- the
reason it's an issue is because he says, look, I've got
this stuff at my house. That's how his -- his defense
is. I haven't used it; I've got the insulation there.
So, you think it's still clearly established that it
violates the Fourth Amendment for the city to say, okay,
well, show it to us if you want to use that as your
defense?
MR. MCGILL: Yes, I do because it -- it --
certainly, Mr. Filarsky didn't have any reasonable
suspicion to believe that Mr. Delia was lying or was
being dishonest. He certainly didn't have probable
cause. He had a hunch. And then that's what he said,
I -- I -- he said it as -- at the -- during the
interview that I -- I don't necessarily know that you're
lying; I just -- I want to see if you are.
So, you know, the investigation turned from
wanting to see whether Mr. Delia was off work on false
pretenses into, well, I don't have anything there; so,
let me just see if he's lying just for the sake of it.
And that's when they ended up issuing that order.
I think that would be a different situation
if perhaps you could argue that they had a reasonable
suspicion or had some cause to search his house, but
here they didn't. So, I think it is under those facts
clearly established.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. McGill, back to
immunity, what -- one thing I don't understand about our
law here, you say there was no historic basis. And I
have to concede that that's right. Seems to me that
there's -- there was only a malice defense. But isn't
that always true when it comes to a -- a private person?
In other words, of course there's no historic basis for
qualified immunity. This kind of immunity was developed
in 1970. It's sort of by definition there's no historic
basis for this sort of immunity.
So, to say that the historic basis matters
is really to say that private people never get Harlow
immunity.
MR. MCGILL: Well, I think that that's
right. There was not qualified immunity at common law,
but there was absolute immunity. And in -- there -- I
mean, I can't go back and think about all the different
immunities that may or may not have existed, but I -- I
do know that the Petitioner has the burden to bring
forth a firmly rooted tradition. This Court has said
over and over that it's not going to create new
immunities.
JUSTICE ALITO: But the Court's cases are a
mix of history and -- and policy. The Court has
recognized both absolute immunity -- has recognized
absolute immunity in instances where there wasn't
absolute immunity at common law; isn't that true?
MR. MCGILL: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and the rule about
malice being -- being the criterion of liability, that
applied not just to -- not just to private lawyers but
to government lawyers as well, didn't it?
MR. MCGILL: It did. That that -- that that
good-faith defense applied --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, if we're going to be
historically faithful, we should deny any qualified
immunity to government lawyers or expand the government
immunity to -- for government lawyers so they can do
anything so long as it's not malicious?
MR. MCGILL: Well, that -- that's what this
Court would have to do.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. MCGILL: It would have to basically
expand what was at common law --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. MCGILL: -- a defense.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, the devil with history,
right?
MR. MCGILL: Well, it would result in this
Court having to expand that immunity that it expanded in
Harlow to private individuals. And our position is that
because a private individual like Mr. Filarsky is a
market participant, the purposes of immunity aren't
served. They just simply aren't needed. And I was
mentioning earlier about --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about -- what about
the argument that Filarsky makes, that if there were to
be a proceeding against him, inevitably the witnesses
would be the government employees? They would be the
battalion chiefs, the fire chief. So, one of the
reasons for the qualified immunity is you don't want to
disturb government employees in the routine performance
of their work. Certainly, in this case, there would be
disruption, distraction of these government employees.
MR. MCGILL: Well, there probably would be
some distraction. That would be inevitable, but it
would be no different than the distraction that the
government would face when a private attorney is sued
for any number of claims, malpractice or, you know, some
State law violation.
And to say that the -- the distraction that
the government is going to face based on just what is
probably a small sliver of the big pie, which is, you
know, 1983 litigation, is pretty speculative. And, of
course, it doesn't answer the question that the -- the
government employer itself can still be liable under
Monell.
So, even though the immunity may kick in and
the individuals may get off or may not have to stand
suit, it -- there are still occasions when the
government is still going to be there. So, that
distraction is still going to exist.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if Filarsky was
there, you know, hired to help the fire department with
these -- and he did absolutely nothing? He just sits
there and watches. The battalion chief says, I want to
do this; I'm going to go get the stuff; you bring it all
out. And he just -- he just sits there, doesn't see any
reason to offer any legal advice or opinion. Could you
still sue him under 1983?
MR. MCGILL: Well, I don't think he would be
liable, but I don't think under that situation, he would
have participated in the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Really? He has an
obligation as a lawyer to speak up if he thinks
something illegal is going on. That's his job. And he
doesn't -- he just sits there quietly?
MR. MCGILL: No. I don't know that -- that
he would be liable under section 1983. But if he were,
and he were a private lawyer, he would not have
qualified immunity. He would still be under the same
Richardson test where there's no historical basis for
it, and because he's the private individual working
under -- you know, working for profit and subject to
market pressures, he wouldn't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if he -- this
for profits -- I -- the significance of that eludes me.
Sometimes people act out of, you know, public service,
and particularly in these sorts of situations, the town
needs a lawyer, and he's helping out. What -- if he
were purely a volunteer, it would be a different answer?
MR. MCGILL: If he were purely a volunteer,
it very well might be a different answer because some of
those policy concerns that -- that Richardson talked
about and discussed may not be present. So, you have to
apply the test to the situation you have before you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And, well -- and
what if he gives the city a discount? He's working for
half -- half his fee because it's the city. He wants to
help out, but he can't do it totally for free. So, it's
50 percent his normal rate.
MR. MCGILL: I don't know that 50 percent
makes a difference. And earlier, we were discussing
that -- the 1-year or the 2-year and so forth, the
length of the contract. I don't think that those things
necessarily make a difference. The point is whether Mr.
Filarsky was undertaking that representation or that
role in a manner that made him subject to other regular
market pressures.
If he was performing a function and
competing against other lawyers or other investigators
performing that same function, then the point is there,
you know, he isn't going to be as timid because he's
going to want to do a good job. And the same policy
concerns that are present for that government lawyer
aren't there for him as a private individual.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose a municipality
were to -- or a State were to abolish all the civil
service rules and all the special rules and go back to
employment at will for government employees. Would that
-- would that take with it the whole qualified immunity
regime?
MR. MCGILL: I don't think that it would.
In other words, is the question whether or not, if we
abolished the merit system or civil service system,
would qualified immunity still be needed?
I think if that were the question, that --
well, that's a tough question to answer. But it very
well may not be because, you know, part of the decision
in Richardson here was -- it was -- they are operating
within a different system. Private versus public. And
if you start to make the public system look more like a
private system, then it very well may be that immunity
won't be needed at all.
JUSTICE ALITO: It seems strange because the
immunities, at least some of the immunities, long
pre-date the -- the institution of the civil service
system. Everybody is subject to market forces. Every
person who works is influenced by market forces to some
degree; isn't that correct?
MR. MCGILL: I think that that's correct,
but when you have a civil service system, a merit
system, it's -- it is not as easy to correct behavior as
it would be for, say, a private person. For, like, Mr.
Filarsky, if he was not performing at -- at the level
that the City of Rialto had hoped, he can be replaced
and quite easily.
For a government employee, though, there are
obviously the civil service protections, and it's not so
easy to do that. So, that's --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's not true of most
lawyers.
MR. MCGILL: Pardon me.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Most lawyers are not
part of the civil service -- internal lawyers are not
part of the civil service system. They're generally
considered employees at will, at least most of the
circuit courts have so held.
MR. MCGILL: I'm not familiar with
whether --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That they're
policymakers and, as such, are not subject to civil
service protections.
MR. MCGILL: Well, I -- I know that some
subsections of lawyers within a government can be
represented. So, they very well may have some
protection, but maybe it's not quite to the extent that
more of the rank and file would have.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the political
appointees within the United States Department of
Justice are not protected by civil service. So, should
they lack immunity?
MR. MCGILL: No, because they would -- they
would get it under Harlow. They would have immunity
under Harlow.
JUSTICE ALITO: They're subject to market
forces, aren't they?
MR. MCGILL: They very well may be, and it
may be for me to say that maybe they shouldn't have an
immunity or it's not needed. But at this point, the law
is, under Harlow, that they would receive it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if I told you that all
the lawyers at the Department of Justice are regarded as
being employed at will and that all of them can be
fired?
MR. MCGILL: Well, I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think the rest of
them don't -- don't have any protection?
MR. MCGILL: I think that the answer would
be the same in that they very well may not need
qualified immunity because those pressures and those
concerns underlying immunity aren't there.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wow. That's going to be
disappointing news for all those attorneys at Justice --
(Laughter.)
MR. MCGILL: I just want to go back and talk
about the Petitioner's test a little bit, too, because
the Court had some concerns about it. And I share those
same concerns, and that's that the test requires a
factual analysis, you know, being temporarily retained
in close coordination and supervision. Those are highly
factual questions that aren't going to bode well for
early resolution of a case.
And a -- the lawyer is going to be able to
plead around that test very easily and take the case
into -- into full-blown litigation and discovery and so
forth. So, that -- that test is problematic.
In addition, as I understand it, the test is
going to be extended well beyond attorneys. The test
results in anybody working for the government under, you
know, close coordination or supervision, whatever that
means, is going to get immunity. So, that is well
beyond attorneys, to anybody. Anybody who contracts
with the government and meets that factual test is now
going to have immunity.
And that's something -- that's a huge step
that this Court, you know, should not take, especially
when there is no historical basis for it and the policy
concerns are not present.
But even if you apply that test to
Mr. Filarsky, under these facts, Mr. Filarsky would not
have immunity. He wasn't temporarily retained. He
worked for the City of Rialto for 14 years as -- as a
business, for profit. He had many clients, and the City
of Rialto was one of them. It wasn't that he was
temporarily retained. So, he doesn't even meet that
element of the Petitioner's test.
Mr. Filarsky was not performing a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are all of these --
are all of these objections applicable as well to the
determination of whether there is state action from the
attorney's conduct?
MR. MCGILL: The concerns about there being
a factual --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. MCGILL: -- inquiry?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. MCGILL: I don't think so. I mean, as
an attorney, I would have to certify in a pleading that
-- the relationship between the person I'm suing and the
government. So, I think that there would have to be
information put forth in the pleading that would
establish that, and I don't know that one could simply
make up state action for purposes of pursuing a 1983
action.
So, it -- it may be that there's a factual
inquiry, but I don't think it's as great or nearly as
great as -- as the temporarily retained or close
coordination components to the -- or the Petitioner's
test.
Mr. Filarsky was not performing a function
that is uniquely governmental. Investigating workplace
misconduct is not a governmental function, or it's not a
prototypical governmental function.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But your -- your
objection is not that he was investigating workplace
conduct; your objection is that he was ordering people
to tell your client to bring out stuff that was in his
house.
MR. MCGILL: Correct. But it was under the
-- the auspices of a -- a workplace investigation, if
you will.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but telling
people basically either executing a search or in effect
executing a search, that is a uniquely governmental
function.
MR. MCGILL: Executing a -- a formal search
by the government is something -- that's a role that the
government performs, but I wouldn't say that -- I
wouldn't equate, you know, executing a search with what
occurred here.
Well, let me -- let me restate that, I
guess. What I mean to say is that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't want to say that.
(Laughter.)
MR. MCGILL: Mr. Filarsky -- the function,
the role that he was performing was that of an internal
affairs investigator.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but if -- if he did
the same thing for a private company -- he could do the
same thing for a private company, say, you know, you're
going to get fired unless you substantiate your story by
bringing the stuff out of your house. That wouldn't be
a search -- an unlawful search; right? It could have
happened in a private company.
MR. MCGILL: It could, and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. MCGILL: Yes, it very well could have.
And that's my point, is that what Mr. Filarsky did in
his role was not uniquely governmental. He wasn't
performing that governmental function.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, there's very little
that is uniquely governmental. I mean, my goodness, if
we denied immunity to -- to all those acts that are not
uniquely governmental, there would be very little
immunity, I'm afraid.
MR. MCGILL: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Millett, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. MILLETT: Thank you.
Justice Breyer, your dilemma is -- sits at
the crux of why qualified immunity is appropriate here
because not only do you have the lawyer saying, well,
you'll be all okay, but I'm going to be going down in
this lawsuit; the lawyer's going to have a duty to
inform his client that, in fact, this will lead to
litigation. You will be protected in your personal
capacity, but guess what, litigation is going to ensue.
That can influence and deter both lawyers'
willingness to work for the government at these cut
rates or pro bono rates, their -- subconsciously, the
advice they give, and it can make the government not
want to act on the advice, which is precisely what we
want to protect.
Nothing like that was happening in
Richardson. The government was nowhere on the scene
when the constitutional decisions being challenged --
they weren't even percipient witnesses in that
situation.
The second point I want to make is fiduciary
duty doesn't change it other than it confirms that he's
working in the interest of the government, but every
agent has a fiduciary duty to their principal. And so,
you can't deny qualified immunity on that ground or
you'll have a sweeping decision on your hands.
The market concerns, Justice Sotomayor --
the test is not whether a warm body could be found to
fulfill this operation if he won't do it. This is a
completely different market from Richardson, where
there's only one client for prisons, and that's the
government.
Here, the government is competing for the
services. When it needs a skilled attorney, when it
wants people of the caliber that the government service
needs and deserves, it is competing. And right now, as
the Chief Justice recognized, a lot of times, including
for Mr. Filarsky, that's done at discount rates.
These folks -- this is already a marginal
decision. And if you want to talk about market
decisions, then you're going to push that weight. And
if the answer is, if you decide to take on this pro bono
representation or cut your rates out of public duty and
-- and a willingness to serve your government, guess
what comes with it: You alone will be left holding the
bag at the end of this for the governmental misconduct.
Section 1983 is supposed to deter
governmental conduct. It is not supposed to deter the
reasonable advice given by lawyers to governmental
clients.
If the Court has no further questions.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:04 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
24:16 60:18,19 62:4 26:23 29:5 18:22 24:23 56:13,17
advocate 40:15 38:6 40:4,17 25:3 27:1,5 attorney's 57:11
56:8 59:7 50:9 51:20,22 60:4 33:24
62:12 afraid 59:25 13:10 asked 39:10 29:10,12
38:3 6:3 11:16 answer's 41:4 assert 19:2
agent 61:4 anybody 56:14 asserting 29:10 B 1:6
42:24 agree 40:13 anymore 18:3 assess 16:16 47:10 48:1
ahead 40:2 41:3 25:23 assist 3:23 4:2 52:23 55:25
30:12,19,22 28:21 13:23 23:5 balance 18:15
33:21 52:21 53:14 appears 11:12 assuming 9:1 basis 17:7 29:21
7:4 allegations 8:1 44:9 assurance 7:13 32:23 36:9,12
8:3 20:13 8:18 applicable 57:9 attendant 28:22 37:13 41:15
57:10,23 alleged 6:13 applied 48:15,18 attended 11:4 47:12,16,19,20
allegedly 7:6 apply 15:17 27:5 attorney 3:10,14 51:11 56:22
all-volunteer appointed 9:4 7:5,12 8:16,17 behalf 2:4,7,11
amicus 1:19 2:8 9:2 31:25,25 32:24 36:25 53:22
amount 32:11 appropriate 40:7,8,18,21 believe 46:19
8:14 15:3 and/or 30:10 10:20 61:14 big 50:7
angry 15:23 argue 5:23 47:6 attorneys 5:9,9 bit 56:1
24:14 animated 3:19 argued 29:3 5:11 6:9 8:6 Bivens 9:2 20:3
39:5 annually 20:23 arguendo 44:24 13:12 18:10 board 3:21
40:7,20 answer 4:9 argument 1:12 24:24 25:11 bode 56:6
care 43:6 26:19 29:14,18 client's 16:21 concerned 10:9
38:3 24:10,22 25:12 57:8,14,16 closely 19:9,13 conclusion
25:14 26:3 58:9,17 60:2 21:11 27:13 21:24
40:4,10 27:14 28:3,11 61:17 62:8 closeness 19:24 condition 46:1
41:1 28:24 29:2 chiefs 49:19 closer 38:2,9 conduct 5:20
33:21 34:14 chill 24:13 25:4 Cole 14:16 6:21 7:7 8:20
45:7 49:22 42:17 43:8 15:22 35:4,5 conducted 6:15
50:21 56:7,9 62:10 44:17 45:7 comes 9:9 47:15 conducting
62:11 54:12 61:25 19:14
16:18 17:24 circumstances 15:9 confirms 61:2
18:11 46:21 city 27:10 29:9 30:17 47:24 consequences
37:20 central 25:3 53:25 57:2,3 companies 26:4
21:18 46:18,20 49:22 29:11 competing 30:8
24:8 certify 57:18 clearly 28:7,9,15 52:15 61:13,16 consistent 21:19
27:23 cetera 22:2,2 28:21 44:23 competition Constitution
27:11 45:24 45:1,11,19,22 36:24 21:20
43:23 11:7,7,8 15:5 32:25 34:6,13 44:24 47:13 10:3 32:10,10
35:15 17:17,23 19:1 deal 34:20 demonstrated 61:10
52:9 19:6 20:17,25 decade 43:7 29:20 differently 5:5
10:2 31:3 23:20,25 24:4 deciding 12:15 deny 19:9 48:20 27:7 28:10
36:19 25:20 26:1,16 16:13,17 22:3 denying 14:25 dilemma 39:16
29:19 30:5,15 42:18 45:19 1:18 19:3 direct 3:12 4:8
38:11 39:22 decisionmaking 26:20 27:8 directly 19:10
11:16 48:4,8,25 49:9 7:3 9:25 10:6 54:24 55:12 disagree 16:20
56:2,21 62:6 10:16,19 14:23 depends 5:7 disappointing
54:12 17:14 18:14 described 22:4 discount 52:2
6:21 14:11 24:7 27:15 designed 10:18 discovery 56:10
26:25 22:3,23 23:18 decisions 5:15 43:14 60:15 discussed 30:2
4:7 5:8 48:7 10:12,13 14:22 determination discussing 52:7
12:11 covered 12:19 15:24 17:25 31:6 57:10 discussion 21:9
30:10 cowardly 44:16 26:10 27:18,24 determine 32:6 21:15 44:12
58:3 cowed 15:6 31:20 60:23 determined dishonest 46:20
criterion 48:14 defendant 10:10 deterrence disruption
36:24 cross-appeal defendants 4:13 27:14 distinction
44:23 45:3,20 defenders 4:20 deterring 6:20 31:20 36:18,19
crux 60:8 defending 7:6 43:23 36:21
13:4,6 cut 60:16 61:23 18:11,12 23:11 difference 9:13 21:2
29:14 46:11,16 47:14 9:18,19,20,21 distraction
62:8,9 D 48:18 49:5 9:21 22:10 49:23,25 50:1
40:1 defines 4:9 52:7,10 disturb 49:21
50:9 35:18 degree 53:19 21:6 31:23 10:7
10:2,14 9:24 10:5 20:7 Delia 1:6 3:4 36:23 40:7 11:7 15:9 20:1
20:21 23:24 46:19 47:1 47:5 48:1 50:1 20:20 23:8
17:1,13 27:23 Delia's 44:12 51:20,22 53:10 27:22 39:12
22:21 exclusive 34:13 26:10 27:15 11:18 12:7
61:2,4 encouraged executing 58:18 feel 15:8 34:25 18:18
16:3 58:19,21,24 fellow 19:14 fisc 4:16
ensuring 21:14 49:3,9 figure 41:23 61:19
25:21 33:1 12:1 22:21 36:11 41:24 23:21 24:1,23
40:15 entity 6:3 9:17 23:18 45:14 46:18 forever 8:7
58:18 equate 58:24 extended 25:10 49:11,16 50:17 form 35:14
56:21 54:21 58:5 59:5,18 44:14
55:13 essential 12:13 face 26:9 50:2,6 29:24 31:8 52:8 56:11
9:8 23:12 establish 57:22 fact 28:14 33:14 fill 22:2 forward 6:19
29:9 established 28:7 34:18 42:7 find 24:22 43:20
28:9,15,22 43:11 45:14 finding 28:18,20 for-profit 31:9
32:9,18 44:23 45:1,11 60:12 finish 41:12 31:15
33:6,10 45:19,23,25 factfinding 34:1 fire 19:3 24:15 found 21:1 28:8
46:2 46:13 47:9 factors 30:8,9 26:5,5,7,14,20 28:14,21 32:3
et 22:2,2 27:10 facts 47:8 56:25 27:8 49:19 45:7 61:8
5:1 19:11 ethics 39:11 56:18 57:13,25 fired 55:14 46:14
26:4 27:1 evaluate 11:22 fair 13:23 59:11 free 35:12 52:4
31:16 event 38:25 fairly 20:6 22:4 firefighter 26:8 freewheeling
36:18 Everybody 25:24 27:13 firefighters 26:6 9:11 13:11
35:10 53:17 28:10 29:11 firemen 38:23 front 8:1
54:11 evidence 11:3 faithful 48:20 firm 22:15 31:9 fulfill 61:9
40:2 41:2,3,25 25:9,10,15,20 12:15 48:8 49:6
50:21 52:23 27:3,5,12,16 61:6 home 28:4
9:16 goes 7:11 11:7 30:11,23 31:17 happen 31:25 hoped 53:25
31:23 going 7:17 8:3,6 33:5,6,16 34:5 happened 17:10 hours 32:12
38:10 8:21,22 11:23 35:11,19,23 37:2,4 40:8 house 45:12,13
58:5 11:25 12:5 36:5 43:24 59:14 45:13 46:5,11
59:5 16:16 25:2 48:16,21,21,22 happening 47:7 58:13
26:11 33:17 49:18,21,23 60:21 59:12
36:24,25 41:22 52:19,24 54:2 40:20 hunch 46:21
33:22 43:2,4,12 57:20 58:22,23 hard 8:7 20:12 hypothetical
45:23 48:5,19 60:16,18,22 Harlow 17:1,6,7 33:9 40:14
38:13 51:5 52:17,18 61:24 47:21 49:10
59:11 60:10,10 6:20 8:10 hear 3:3 18:18 illegal 41:24
61:21 10:10,19 14:21 heart 39:12 51:5
12:22 goodness 59:22 59:22,24 62:1 52:4 immunities 48:2
19:25 good-faith 17:1 62:3,4 helping 51:19 48:6 53:15,15
4:3
government's hire 32:22 5:18 6:21
22:14 4:17,20,22,23 10:16,21 11:19 32:8 33:12,25 14:25 15:7,13
44:22 5:1,14,19 6:2,3 18:14 35:18 50:18
17:2
49:15
great 58:1,2 hires 8:16,17 17:5,6,7,9,24
24:6,17 8:16 9:5,5,7,10 guard 9:15 25:6 47:16,18,20 19:15,24 20:4
39:5,10 9:10,23 12:4 guards 10:11 historical 18:3 20:9,10 21:5
60:18 12:12 13:8 13:14 23:2 29:20 30:16 21:13,23 22:25
62:4 15:25 16:2,6 guess 29:1 35:17 37:13 41:15 24:6 25:10
22:16 20:2,8 21:11 16:21 17:6
31:24
25:11
H 48:20 32:13,15 33:19
41:6,15 22:13,17,17 half 52:3,3 history 3:18 35:20,25 36:6
information irony 6:11 29:18 30:12,19 21:19 22:20,23
39:18 57:21 issue 8:20 10:12 30:22 31:1,5 25:20,22 27:11
41:8 initiated 11:20 11:9 13:19 31:12 32:4,16 28:2,13 29:2
inquiry 15:20 30:2 44:1,4 32:18 33:4,11 31:9 32:5
23:16 36:13 45:5 46:10 34:2,9,12,17 38:14 41:1,2
43:9,13 57:15 58:1 issued 6:16 34:20 35:1,4 41:23 42:16
47:11 instance 35:14 42:18 35:10,16,22 43:17,22 44:19
instances 48:10 issues 29:25 36:1,4,8,15,17 44:20 45:14
48:9 institution 53:16 issuing 41:24 37:2,10,17,24 46:23,25 48:3
insulation 45:24 44:10 47:4 38:3,5,8,12,18 50:3,8,18 51:7
46:12 item 28:5 38:22 39:20 51:13,17 52:6
51:10 integral 31:21 items 45:16 40:4,10,23 52:17 53:8
53:5,12 integrated 14:18 41:1,9,12,18 54:18 56:4,15
interest 13:9 J 42:23 43:2,10 56:21 57:22
57:1 14:22 25:6 January 1:9 43:16,25 44:3 58:24 59:10
60:8 31:15 39:11 job 24:16 33:5 44:15,19,22 known 46:5
61:3 51:5 52:18 45:4,10,22
interfere 8:22 Joe 37:21 48:7,13,19 lack 3:25 55:1
24:8 15:24 judge 31:22 52:1,21 53:14 large 9:7
54:9 59:6 judges 31:18 54:25 55:5,11 34:19 43:1
9:11 15:10 judicial 31:21 58:9,17 59:3,8 law 7:24 13:16
12:18 investigate 9:4 37:16 59:16,21 60:2 14:3,5,8,13,18
13:4,6 35:22 36:5 jurisprudence 60:7 61:7,17 16:5 28:7,9
25:5 investigating 3:20 6:21 62:8 29:11,12,21
33:15 58:6,10 jury 16:16 30:17 31:6,9
investigation Justice 1:18 3:3 K 31:14,14 33:2
11:16 11:4,20 19:5 5:22 7:10,25 17:4,18 18:2 44:23 45:1,7
30:6 19:14 24:12 8:15 9:13 21:4 22:6 45:18 47:12,24
42:15 43:13 46:25 10:24 11:2,15 47:10 48:11 49:3
51:12 58:15 12:2,3,18 13:2 keep 12:8 50:4 55:9
investigator 13:13,19 14:2 Kennedy 5:22 lawsuit 6:18
27:17 34:5 59:7 16:18 17:4,18 28:25 lawsuits 10:18
50:13 investigators 18:2,16,20,25 key 15:1 lawyer 11:3,5
involved 6:14 24:21 26:19 know 11:24 39:5,9 41:20
43:3 60:13,14 23:15,21 24:1 26:21 35:17 35:15 52:21
little 27:1 56:1 24:23 25:21,22 41:2,20,22
56:8 59:21,24 36:23 49:12 42:3 44:5 48:1 N
local 22:16,17 51:14 52:13 57:17 59:2,22 N 2:1,1 3:1
17:2 37:22 61:7,10,20 medical 11:25 named 10:10
24:25 logical 21:24 Marshals 26:16 meet 57:5 naturally 42:10
48:15 long 48:23 53:15 matter 1:11 4:24 meeting 11:5
54:6,8,9 35:15 36:3 30:20 32:6 members 20:17 necessarily
55:12 look 16:19 34:24 39:24 62:12 23:19 33:21 38:24
62:4 35:2 46:10 matters 22:22 mentioning 39:18 46:23
25:11 41:21 44:16 32:14,17,21 7:23 8:25 9:19 needed 17:25
39:23,23 61:17 33:8,20 34:6 11:1,14,17 18:13 21:12
41:15 love 23:8 34:10,15,23 12:7 13:1,6,17 49:13 53:5,13
50:23 lying 46:19,24 35:3,6,13,21 13:22 14:3,11 55:9
26:9 33:24 40:3,5,18,25 mind 43:5
25:20
48:14
50:10 14:21,22 25:3 43:18 44:2,7 minutes 60:3 news 55:23
25:18 44:21 45:2,6 misconduct 58:7 NICHOLAS 1:6
47:14 48:14 48:12,17,24 Monell 50:11 Ninth 27:20
24:22 39:14 52:6 53:2,20 monitoring 45:7
8:19 57:17 58:14,21 multifactor 7:13
56:10 22:3,6 23:6,10 22:18 23:10,15 16:9 32:7
order 6:16 40:15 58:11,18 61:15 plaintiffs 8:1 pretenses 47:2
51:4 ordering 58:11 percipient 60:24 plead 33:18 56:9 pre-date 53:16
23:23 5:3 31:17 57:21 principal 61:4
54:3 outcome 8:19 3:24 12:12 point 10:7 26:24 prison 5:11 9:14
20:8 paid 4:17,23 7:2 15:25 36:14 43:21 14:16,17 19:8
Pardon 54:7 person 16:21,23 48:8 51:23 19:10 20:2,7
38:18 28:1 53:8 54:9 27:21 47:15 54:16 23:2,12 26:3
46:14 54:10 53:18,23 57:19 political 54:23 26:17 27:21
participant personal 26:9 position 16:21 33:2 36:22
23:7 particularly personnel 11:6 49:10 47:15,21 48:15
33:2 party 15:24 persons 27:19 practical 9:20 53:10,12,23
part-time 30:20 petition 28:12 9:21 59:9,10,14
61:9 31:17,18 32:9 1:16,20 2:4,8 60:19 pro 60:17 61:22
23:18 passed 10:22 18:24 19:2 present 51:24 46:20
37:18,18 32:21 24:9 27:19 52:19 56:23 probably 28:15
45:18 passu 14:7 29:7,20,22 presented 29:1 32:24 49:24
PATRICIA 1:15 30:4 32:2 President 12:23 50:7
people 4:14 11:4 Petitioner's 30:3 52:13 55:20 problematic
provides 37:1 49:20 51:10 18:10 46:18 61:23
psychologist 61:5 6:23,24,25 7:3 representing
31:10 4:20 7:15 12:10 13:18,25 30:18 49:20 37:12
51:17 53:10,11 25:17 28:10,12
40:21 purely 26:20 36:13 39:18,19
57:3 51:20,21 39:21,22 50:9 2:12 60:4 7:24,25 8:24
20:9 21:12 questions 56:6received 43:19 reserved 13:25
29:23 36:25 quietly 51:6 45:12 reserving 12:9
37:4,8 57:23 54:1,21 recognized 32:21 56:7
pursuant 9:17 17:17,23 18:1 respect 5:8 8:6
57:23 R 3:1 61:17 Respondent
25:13 put 9:24 29:25 rank 54:22 record 44:8 28:23 29:8,17
37:14 57:21 rate 52:5 referred 7:25 32:2 45:3
14:24 putting 12:8 61:18,23 regardless 6:25 11:18
16:12 p.m 62:11 rationale 14:24 regime 53:1 responsibility
18:14 15:15 regular 52:12 33:15
Q read 23:18 regulate 10:18 rest 55:16
qualified 3:17 really 7:14 9:23 relationship restate 59:1
60:13 14:25 15:7,13 20:18,20,24 33:24 35:14 results 5:4 56:14
27:16 17:24 18:13 22:24 24:1 relevant 23:16 4:22,25 7:2
23:25 20:4,9,10 44:19 47:21 relying 11:8 33:25 56:4
55:17 21:13,22 22:25 51:3 remaining 60:3 57:1,5 58:2
24:6 25:10 reason 5:17 6:13 23:23 57:2,4
33:18 41:20 28:21 42:14 represent 4:11 11:19 12:5,14
37:15 47:24 48:20 16:13,16,23 27:20 52:11 20:5,17,25
22:5,24 S 2:1 3:1 security 26:16 57:22 17:12 31:23
24:5 Saharsky 1:17 26:17 single 10:10 52:23
30:14,15 2:6 18:18,21 see 26:3 28:6 sit 11:23 specific 18:9
42:16 18:22,25 19:16 46:24 47:1,3 sits 50:19,22 speculative 50:8
53:9 19:20,23 20:16 50:22 51:6 60:7 Spencer 42:18
61:10 21:8 22:9,18 segment 25:22 sitting 42:25 42:19
25:7 27:7 28:8 sense 4:18,22,23 situation 3:23 stake 17:15
18:20 sake 47:3 28:15 12:15,16 14:15 standards 38:19
33:17 sat 38:23 serious 25:24 15:6,10 19:6,8 standing 7:7
41:25 satisfy 8:23 seriously 24:22 19:16 20:19,22 start 53:11
43:6,10 36:25 serve 29:23 21:1,2 22:5,10 started 24:4
45:17 saying 24:20 61:24 27:8,12 29:22 starts 30:16
48:12 25:7 27:2 served 21:13 29:24 31:8,23 state 4:10,16
59:13 32:19 34:17 23:23 49:13 33:1 35:25 5:24 6:1,4,8,10
39:22,23 42:8 service 4:10 42:4,6,10 43:4 7:24,24 14:13
15:5 says 6:21 11:8 52:23 53:4,16 situations 4:21 50:4 52:22
19:12 12:22,23 41:2 53:21 54:3,9 14:14 20:10 57:10,23
26:19 41:23 44:4 54:10,17,25 51:18 stated 3:22
41:9,12 46:10 50:20 61:15 skilled 61:14 States 1:1,12,19
42:23 Scalia 12:3,18 services 31:11 slew 24:25 2:7 4:15 13:7,8
13:2,13,19 32:11,22 61:14 slightly 40:23 18:23 26:16
46:6,9 14:2,6 23:3,5 serving 12:4 sliver 50:7 54:24
51:3,15 23:10,14 33:4 25:12 small 16:8 50:7 step 56:20
57:8,14 33:11 34:2,9 set 36:23 40:11 Solicitor 1:17 STEVE 1:3
58:9,17 34:12,17,20 40:14 somebody 4:11 stop 7:16 26:13
62:8 35:1,4,10,16 sets 32:7 23:11,12 29:21 story 59:11
52:12 38:5,8 44:15 seven 32:2 sorry 11:1 18:19 stuff 46:11
59:6,19 44:19 48:13,19 share 56:2 19:18,20 23:14 50:21 58:12
59:8,16,21 show 12:20 11:11 17:1 subconscious
6:9,11 47:7 58:18,19 side-by-side Sotomayor subject 10:2
48:13 58:21,24 59:13 19:4 10:24 11:2,15 13:3 24:21
52:23 second 8:5 61:1 51:16 36:15 54:5,8 39:25 51:13
Secondly 16:2 simple 29:4 54:15 61:7 52:12 53:17
20:2 14:17 30:6 speak 51:4 subjecting 39:6
sweep 14:14 test 7:10,12,21 threatened 7:17 typically 36:12
system 33:2 34:8 18:3 21:22 threatening U
53:10,11,12,17 30:14 41:8 threats 43:19 39:24
43:3,5 56:3,9,11,12 36:1 unconstitutio...
T 56:13,18,24 time 18:15 21:24 7:7 43:21
14:8 take 17:18 21:18 Thank 18:16,25 times 6:9 61:17 55:21
42:8 50:2 25:1,19,23 29:13,14,18 timid 52:17 undermines
23:15 56:9,21 61:22 28:17 34:3 today 37:3 9:17 15:19
27:21 talented 25:19 things 16:11 6:18 44:15 47:11
5:8 7:14 20:11 32:4 22:3,6,9 24:3 48:4 unemployed
10:3 team 11:21 25:16 30:15 trained 22:20 24:25
13:3,5 12:17 14:21 31:7,13,14 training 22:21 unique 9:22
26:18 teed 28:2,11 34:23 35:6 transcripts 44:9 20:6 21:1 22:5
30:10 29:1 38:1,9,15 treat 9:25 24:1
tell 28:5 33:17 39:17 40:5 trial 16:15 uniquely 58:6
45:15 58:12 42:11 45:6 48:11 54:5 59:24
17:24 temporarily 50:25 51:1 26:24 35:14 unit 30:23
3:10 7:1 15:25 52:9 53:2,6,20 37:24 40:11,14 United 1:1,12,19
30:19 57:5 58:2 57:20 58:1 turn 17:10 18:23 26:16
52:21 temporary thinking 20:15 turned 17:2 54:24
62:2,3 tend 27:12 thinks 42:6 51:4 turnkey 12:15 31:17
termed 12:3 16:14 22:14,23 two 7:23 14:7 21:5
44:5 terms 10:3 19:3 23:15 34:3 29:25 36:1 unwarranted
Washington 1:8 14:4 57:2 year 33:6,12 6
21:4 28:9,11 5:13 8:10 9:10 years 36:1,2 60 2:14
57:1,4 19:17 21:11 Year-long 33:4
way 5:10 6:18 43:23 51:12,13 zealously 25:6
50:4 weight 61:21 58:10,15 52:8
51:20,21 weren't 13:13 30:17 34:7 100 26:20
60:24 world 6:17 12:04 62:11
11:8 16:19 18:4 worth 39:14 1983 3:19 4:12
16:2 20:11 25:21 wouldn't 6:5 6:20 7:9 13:15
28:5 41:23 48:19 19:14 21:13 16:4,6 20:3
30:1 willing 21:18 23:22 27:9 38:5 50:8,24
38:25 27:19 28:15 40:21 51:8 57:23
41:25 willingness 43:13 51:14 62:2
60:16 61:24 58:23,24 59:12 1997 42:17
45:9 wiping 25:21 wow 42:11
49:20 witnesses 16:15 2
52:18 2-year 52:8
60:24 writ 9:7
59:3 2003 42:17,22
61:1 words 41:3 2012 1:9
29 2:11
47:16 28:7 39:23
3
47:1 364 34:18 35:18
22:11,12 27:24
34:21 35:9,12 X
28:19
60:16 50 52:5,6
