IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
PANAGIS VARTELAS, :
Petitioner : No. 10-1211
v. :
ERIC H. HOLDER, JR., :
ATTORNEY GENERAL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 18, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:22 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
STEPHANOS BIBAS, ESQ., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; for
Petitioner.
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
for Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
STEPHANOS BIBAS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
STEPHANOS BIBAS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 46
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:22 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 10-1211, Vartelas v. Holder.
Mr. Bibas.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHANOS BIBAS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BIBAS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
As the Government concedes, INA subsection
101(a)(13)(C)(v), added by IIRIRA, does not expressly
mandate retroactivity. Under Landgraf, applying that
new provision would attach new legal consequences to
pre-IIRIRA offenses, penalizing both those who travel
and those who don't.
Covered lawful permanent residents could not
visit their parents abroad without being forced to
abandon their children here. They would be removed from
the country or else confined here. Either way, they
would lose an ability they had under pre-IIRIRA law
based on pre-IIRIRA offenses. Thus, applying the
subsection to them would be impermissibly retroactive.
The settled expectations at issue here are
those of round trips by lawful permanent residents, not,
as the Government would put it, one-way tickets or
first-time entrants.
These are people who have structured their
lives here. They have homes, spouses, children, and
careers here and, yet, have a settled expectation that
they will be able to maintain ties to visit aged and
ailing parents abroad, to go to funerals and wakes and
visit them in the hospital and surgeries. Our amici,
the NACDL brief and the Asian American --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: As far as going forward
is concerned, that's -- that's just the way it is,
right?
MR. BIBAS: Yes, because Congress has
expressly changed the law post-IIRIRA. The question is,
for those before IIRIRA, whether those settled
expectations are being disrupted.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could they -- could
they -- the person who -- who is here and then the new
law is passed -- could that person have petitioned for
discretionary relief before traveling?
MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor, that is a
possibility. That is not the same as the automatic
ability to travel, and, in fact, in this case the
discretionary relief was denied. It depends on a
different set of factors from the automatic pre-IIRIRA
ability to travel. But it is a theoretical possibility
in some cases.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, your
expectations argument is that somebody trying to figure
out whether to go ahead and rob the bank is going to
say, well, if I do and I'm caught and I'm found guilty,
I won't be able to take temporary trips abroad; so, I'm
not going to rob the bank.
MR. BIBAS: No, Your Honor. First of all,
you phrased it specifically as a reliance argument,
which is an alternative. Even the Government concedes
it's not a prerequisite.
Second, the right time to look at
expectations is the moment before the law is enacted:
Does one have an expectation at that point that one will
be able to continue --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you're
concerned under Landgraf, I think, with whether or not
it disrupts settled expectations. And it just doesn't
seem to me that this issue enters into the expectations
at all when the pertinent act, which is the commission
of the crime, not the pleading guilty, takes place.
MR. BIBAS: No, Your Honor, I believe the
practical impact is a new travel disability or penalty,
just as in Landgraf. The discrimination there had been
illegal for decades; yet, adding a new form of damages
to it was impermissibly retroactive. In Hughes
Aircraft, filing false claims with the government had
been illegal for years; yet, broadening the class of
people who could file suit and removing a defense -- no
reliance possible at all, but there was a settled
expectation that there would be no additional
consequences attached to that.
JUSTICE ALITO: What's the difference
between someone who commits the crime just before the
Act is passed and someone who commits the crime just
after the Act is passed? The person who commits the
crime just after the Act is passed had the expectation
prior to the passage of the Act that if he did certain
things, he wouldn't -- he wouldn't have this consequence
from his conduct.
MR. BIBAS: Congress, of course, has the
power to change things, but the expectation until an Act
is passed is that the consequences are fixed in time.
And if Congress decides that the potential unfairness is
outweighed by the benefits of making the Act
retroactive --
JUSTICE ALITO: But the person who -- who
commits the crime just after the Act is passed had the
expectation prior to that time, that had -- if he did
certain things in the future, he wouldn't suffer certain
consequences.
MR. BIBAS: And yet, Congress has -- has
affirmatively warned and put everybody on notice that
now there is this new consequence. You may be deterred
by this new consequence. We may be punishing you by
this new consequence. But the consequence has been
announced.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Bibas, I have -- this
is almost a question of personal privilege. You -- you
make your whole argument on the basis of Landgraf. So
does the Government. You do not cite -- the Government
cites but does not discuss the relevant portion of a --
of a later case which involved the same question,
Republic of Austria v. Altmann.
I concurred separately in Landgraf because I
thought that the test that the Court was using,
upsetting settled expectations, was indeed the proper
test for constitutional provisions forbidding ex post
facto laws, which is where the Court derived it from,
Justice Story's opinion in a New Hampshire
constitutional case.
But I said in my concurrence that the proper
test for -- for the other issue of retroactivity,
namely, constitutionality aside, does this statute mean
to be applied only in the future or in the past? And
for that, I propose -- well, I'll read you what we said
in Altmann:
"Our approach" -- which postdates Landgraf.
"Our approach to retroactivity in this case thus
parallels that advanced by Justice Scalia in the
concurrence in Landgraf." Quote, and it's quoting the
concurrence: "'The critical issue ... is not whether
the rule affects 'vested rights,' or governs substance
or procedure, but rather what is the relevant activity
that the rule regulates. Absent clear statement
otherwise, only such relevant activity which occurs
after the effective date of the statute is covered.
Most statutes are meant to regulate primary conduct, and
hence will not be applied in trials involving conduct
that occurred before their effective date. But other
statutes have a different purpose and therefore a
different relative retroactivity event'" -- "'relevant
retroactivity event.'"
And that is what we have here. The -- the
event that is sought to be regulated is entry into the
United States, and it is clear that this statute applies
only to prospective entry into the United States. It
doesn't apply to past entry so that those people who
came in, in violation of this statute, can be deported.
Now, why shouldn't we apply that rule in this case, as
we did in the Republic of Austria case?
MR. BIBAS: No, Your Honor. As a -- first
of all, our reply brief discussed Altmann, and the
majority of the Court has viewed that as limited to the
foreign sovereign immunities context. But taking your
test on its own terms --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would it be limited
just to the foreign sovereign immunities context?
MR. BIBAS: That's the majority's approach.
But taking your test on its own terms, what you're
pointing out is there is a future --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you say that's the
majority's approach?
MR. BIBAS: I'm sorry. The majority in
Fernandez-Vargas expressly said that Republic of Austria
was in a sui generis context and that its holding
shouldn't be extended to -- to Fernandez-Vargas.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Its -- its holding.
MR. BIBAS: Yes.
But to take -- to look at your test, you
were pointing out that there is a future event which the
Government -- practically its entire theory turns on
that. But even if there is a future event, there is a
past event being regulated here, and the activity at
issue under your test would be the pre-IIRIRA offense,
not just the innocent post-IIRIRA travel. What we have
is future lawful travel, concededly lawful, nothing
nefarious needs to be shown of it.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Bibas, how is it
different then from a felon in possession statute, where
you look at the past offense --
MR. BIBAS: Right.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- and then you say, well,
this man, because of that past offense, can't buy a gun
in the future? How is it different at all?
MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, there are five
pertinent distinctions. Permit me to unpack.
The first and most important is that the
Landgraf test should have a broader scope than the ex
post facto context in these criminal cases because
Congress can override it expressly.
Since the ex post facto clauses disable both
State and Federal legislatures from acting at all, the
deprivation of power must be narrow and careful so State
and Federal legislatures can continue to regulate felon
in possession or racketeering or the other crimes the
Government advances.
But Landgraf just tells Congress how to
legislate. It's a background rule. So, it's legitimate
to have a presumption against retroactivity sweep more
broadly, as Congress is free to override it and, as I
will explain, does override it regularly.
Secondly, felon in possession is inherently
dangerous conduct. This is a protective law. It's not
just a punitive or deterrent law.
The third and related point is that felon in
possession laws are tailored. There's a nexus to a
danger, a threat to people suffering firearm -- it's
narrowly tailored. Fourth --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, why isn't the -- the
government, Congress, making the exact same judgment
here? If the activity to be regulated is entry, and
Congress is making a judgment that we do not want
dangerous people to enter, and we're using the
conviction, the prior conviction, as a marker for who is
dangerous, and that's exactly what Congress has done in
the felon in possession statute.
MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, I believe the two
are quite different. Felon in possession is limited to
firearms in the hands of proven dangerous people. Here
we have a law that says you can stay in the country
indefinitely; we're going to discourage you from going
abroad and leaving the country because we'll make it
harder for you to come back. That's not tailored at all
to protecting the people inside the United States.
I'd also point out that the felon in
possession statute, as this Court noted in Heller, is
part of a long tradition of forbidding such activity as
a crime. So, it's hard to say there are settled
expectations being upset by felon in possession laws.
And the final one is Congress can do that
simply by being explicit, and it has done so repeatedly
in laws such as IIRIRA. Elsewhere in IIRIRA, section
321(b) says the aggravated felony definition applies to
convictions entered before, on, or after the statute's
effective date. It knew how to do it; it did it more
than a dozen other times in IIRIRA, as this Court noted
in St. Cyr. It didn't spell it out here. The point of
this --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How about the career
criminal enhancements, instead of the felon in
possession? And assuming your arguments, what limits
can Congress put on anyone with respect to future
conduct if it's going to be a burden? Under your view,
it stops people from traveling. Career criminal
statutes put on the distinct disadvantage of a longer
sentence.
MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor, and as we
noted, in the criminal context, this Court in Witte and
Gryger notes it's a heavier punishment on the new crime
because it's aggravated, because it's repeated. And
because Congress has more leeway in the ex post facto
context and because recidivism enhancements have a long
tradition, it's entirely legitimate. There's no need to
say that that's punishing the past offense because the
future offense -- it --- it's permissible to increase it
under the Ex Post Facto Clause.
And that's an inquiry that's different from
the Landgraf test here because all Congress has to do is
spell out expressly we want to apply this to convictions
entered before, on, or after the statute's effective
date, which it did in 321(b), which it didn't do here.
So, if we were looking at the function of --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does that argument that
you've just made go more to whether or not the BIA's
conclusion that Congress intended to rescind the Fleuti
decision -- but you assume that's what its intent was?
MR. BIBAS: We've assumed arguendo because
that's the premise of the question presented. Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, if we assume that,
if we assume that was Congress's intent, doesn't that
start -- give you the conclusion? If Congress intended
to undo it, doesn't that prove that they intended to
effect it retroactively?
MR. BIBAS: No, Your Honor, it doesn't. All
the case law, the legislative history, the other
discussion was about certain other aspects of entry
doctrine that needed to be changed. The discussion was
express about saying we're changing the definition from
entry to admission because we don't want people who have
snuck into the country outside of --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no. I -- those go
to the basic premise.
MR. BIBAS: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If you assume Congress
intended to rescind the prior doctrine, isn't that proof
itself that it intended to apply the statute
retroactively?
MR. BIBAS: No, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: To this conduct?
MR. BIBAS: No, Your Honor. Congress can
intend to rescind -- to -- to abrogate a statute such
that it will have no effect going forward, but as this
Court noted in Landgraf, the -- the background default
rule that the public and Congress expect is that new
laws will apply prospectively. That has the virtue not
only of giving a clear background rule which -- against
which Congress legislates, against which it did
legislate in IIRIRA; but it also forces Congress to
advert to the potential unfairness of retroactivity and
decide that the benefits outweigh it.
That's what this Court said in Landgraf. It
makes perfect sense, and that clear statement rule
serves the function of having them smoke out into the
open. If you think it's beneficial to make this
affect convictions in the past, just say so. But it
didn't.
So, to go back to our primary point, with
the practical impact or effect being a new travel
disability, the Government's argument seems to boil down
to that, because there is one event that must happen
after the statute's effective date, therefore there can
be no retroactive effect.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that event is the
event that the government cares about, which is the
entry into the country. It's not as though the -- you
know, the government says -- just picks an event at
random and -- and makes it the trigger mechanism. The
government has picked the event that it wants to
regulate, which is entry.
MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor, but this is an
effect test, and under Martin v. Hadix and Landgraf, we
have to take a commonsense functional view of what the
effects are, the new legal consequences. As --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought
your answer to my colleague would be: No, what they
want to regulate is the staying in the country, and
they're trying to make that as uncomfortable as possible
in order to encourage the individual to leave. If he
can't go to the, you know, parent's party, the cousin's
wedding or whatever, he's just going to leave, and then
once he does, he can't come back.
Why would -- why would the Government
care -- it's a question for them, I'm sure. Why would
they care whether somebody that they don't want to be
here stays here? It seems to me the exact opposite.
So, I would have thought your argument -- your answer
would be, no, what they're trying to regulate is not the
coming and going, but simply the staying.
MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor, you're right
that, particularly given the strange way in which it's
written, it's hard to understand it as something other
than a penalty and possibly a deterrent, but certainly a
penalty based on past crimes, to make life
uncomfortable. And that does not speak of a protective,
forward-looking exclusive function, if that's the test.
But to go back to the earlier point, if that
were -- if we were to follow the approach Justice Scalia
outlined, that would be the right response. But we
don't even need to get there because the primary test
under Landgraf is not the point or function or purpose,
but an effects test. The effect, as the Government
concedes, is to force him to choose between his parents
in Greece and his wife, children, career, and home here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But there are a lot of --
but there are a lot of statutes which we interpret to be
valid, and not retroactive, which have a substantial
effect. You can pass a statute altering the rules of
evidence which have the effect of making someone who
committed a prior murder convictable; whereas, before,
he was not convictable.
And we don't just look to the effect and
say, well, it has that substantial effect; so, it's
operating retroactively. We say, no, it's a rule of
evidence. It applies in the future, and that evidence
can come in.
And that's my problem with this other
approach. There are often adverse effects upon
activities that occurred before the statute was enacted,
but we still regard the statute as prospective only and,
therefore, not subject to special rules for people who
are affected.
MR. BIBAS: Well, setting aside the
difference between the ex post facto context and the
civil context, and I -- there is the procedural
distinction which I know Your Honor didn't sign on to.
It's also relevant that here it is directly expressly
tied to a past conduct. It's a precondition. It's not
even a piece of evidence or something one can draw an
inference from. It is a precondition for ineligibility
under 101(a)(13)(C)(v). And, therefore, it looks like
the disability that Justice Story said; a disability has
to involve future conduct. But if it's expressly
disabling future conduct, that's a penalty on past
conduct.
The disability in St. Cyr of not being able
to apply for future discretionary relief. The
disability in some other cases of this Court that we
found after briefing and alerted opposing counsel to,
Cummings v. Missouri and Ex parte Garland in volume 71
of the U.S. Reports. Even though the law there forbade
teaching in the future or holding office or preaching or
being a member of the bar, the Government's theory would
say those are post-enactment things; just refrain from
teaching; you don't have a vested right to teach.
This Court said, no, we recognize those are
expressly targeted to punish the past membership in the
Confederacy that triggers that disability. And so, the
Government's approach would render the Justice Story's
disability category a nullity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does it matter in
the examples that you just gave that admission to the
United States is purely a matter of legislative grace,
while we might conclude that teaching, being a member of
the bar, whatever, is not?
MR. BIBAS: I don't believe that that is
important. That only matters for the vested rights
argument, and this Court in Cummings said expressly it
was dealing with a privilege. So -- moreover --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. What --
an which privilege was that?
MR. BIBAS: The privilege of teaching or the
privilege of holding office. So, you can't rest on a
right/privilege disposition.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Suppose that might
have been regarded as such then but not under current
law.
MR. BIBAS: Okay. Well, another answer --
in St. Cyr, the government made the same argument, and
this Court said: Well, sure, Congress has the plenary
power to change the rules any time it wants; just do it
expressly.
The question is not whether Congress can,
but whether it has, in fact, changed the rules
expressly, to make that express tradeoff that the
potential unfairness of retroactivity is worth it.
Now, the final point here, I believe there
was some reference earlier to reliance in the offense.
And as the Government concedes, reliance is not a
prerequisite. This Court can rule for Petitioner and
not even bother with reliance. But the presence of
reliance here is an extra factor that -- that shows the
retroactivity to be obvious and severe. So, the court
of appeals' whole premise that reliance is necessary
goes away. The Government concedes the court of appeals
implicitly was wrong on that.
As a practical matter, our point is that
defendants rely on the known consequences of offenses
when they decide to plead guilty. As this Court
recognized in --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When they decide to
plead guilty?
MR. BIBAS: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The operative issue
here is when they commit the crime.
MR. BIBAS: We don't claim that there's a
reliance interest in committing the crime, but in the
decision to plead guilty, as a practical matter, the
defendants weigh a number of consequences. And one of
those is whether they might have a 4-month discount off
their sentencing guidelines, which was the inducement
here, and another one is, will they ever be able to see
their parents again?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, this -- so,
this --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So, you draw the line --
your position is that only those who have entered a
guilty plea are entitled to the presumption against
non-retroactivity, but not those who've been found
guilty?
MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, our primary position
is that because reliance isn't necessary, all of them
benefit from it because they all have settled
expectations.
JUSTICE KAGAN: How do you explain St. Cyr
if reliance isn't necessary? St. Cyr is all about
reliance.
MR. BIBAS: Yes. And at the end of this
Court's opinion, the Court said that the presence of
this reliance made the retroactive effect especially
obvious and sincere -- especially obvious and severe in
St. Cyr. That did not purport to overrule holdings in
Landgraf and Hughes Aircraft, where there had been no
legally cognizable reliance.
So, St. Cyr is an easy case because of the
guilty plea because of the reliance. But Landgraf and
Hughes Aircraft didn't involve any reliance, and there
was still retroactivity because the settled expectations
were disrupted because there were new consequences
attached to pre-enactment conduct.
So, regardless of whether there is reliance,
there are settled expectations that are upset by a law
whose function or point is to punish and deter
misconduct based on past wrongs. My client --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We're trying to figure out
what Congress intended, right? We're not talking about
constitutionality. We're talking about a rule that it's
presumed that statutes are only prospective. All right?
And your argument is the reasonable expectation of
Congress when they passed this was that it would only
apply to -- to people who, what, committed the crime or
were convicted after the statute passed --
MR. BIBAS: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- just as a matter of
statutory interpretation?
MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. BIBAS: This -- that is the background
default rule against which Congress legislates. And in
laws such as IIRIRA and SORNA and elsewhere, Congress
spells out when it wants to apply to pre-enactment
offenses, to pre-enactment conduct. That's a defeasible
civil retroactivity rule that can reach more broadly
than the ex post facto jurisprudence.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, do you have any case
in which a court has deemed a statute retroactive even
though it wasn't triggered until the party took some
further action? Is there any case out there either from
this Court or from another court where we've said, you
know, it's retroactive even though it depends upon a
future event?
MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor. St. Cyr
depended on applying for discretionary relief in the
future. He didn't have to. Cummings depended on trying
to teach or preach or hold office. Ex parte Garland
depended on trying to practice law in the future.
Those are all disabilities taking away a
future ability based on a past wrong. That's what the
disability category has to mean if it's to remain
meaningful. And the Government's approach would gut
Justice Story's fourth category. If there are no
further questions, I'd like to reserve the balance of my
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Miller.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. MILLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
As the discussion so far this morning
reveals, the Court's retroactivity analysis takes
account of a number of different factors, but the one
that is most significant and, indeed in this case,
virtually dispositive is that the application of section
1101(a)(13) to Petitioner was triggered only because he
engaged in voluntary conduct that postdated the
enactment of the statute.
JUSTICE KAGAN: What do you take the trigger
to be? Because in your brief you kept on talking about
the trigger being the trip. And I would have thought
that you would have talked more about the activity being
the attempt to enter the country.
MR. MILLER: That's -- I mean they're
closely connected together in time, and they both -- but
they both postdate the enactment of the statute. But
what -- the thing that is being regulated by section
1101(a)(13) is the entry of aliens into the United
States. The statute sets out a comprehensive scheme for
determining when an alien arriving at the border seeking
to come into the United States should be regarded as
seeking an admission. So, that's conduct that takes
place in the future.
Part (A) of 1101(a)(13) sets out the general
definition of admission, and then (C) sets out a number
of exceptions. And so, taken together, they are part of
a comprehensive effort to codify Fleuti in some
respects. And, in particular, Romanette (ii), the
180-day provision, is actually a fairly generous
codification of Fleuti, probably extending beyond what
would have been regarded as a brief trip under Fleuti.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I have
to -- I just don't understand this statute. This is
somebody we would not allow into the country. And yet,
the only thing we say is you can't leave. I just don't
understand how that -- how that works.
MR. MILLER: I think there are -- there are
two points to be made about that. And the first is that
that is a feature of the statute writ large. I mean,
that exists even with respect to post-enactment criminal
convictions. So, it's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. Right.
MR. MILLER: And the second, I think to
understand it, it's helpful to look at the history. The
distinction between grounds of inadmissibility and
grounds of deportability goes back all the way to the
1917 Act. In that statute, a single crime of moral
turpitude was a basis for inadmissibility but was
generally not a basis for deportability unless it had a
1-year sentence and was committed within 5 years --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know, and I
understand that there is a limitation on actually
deporting the person. But here I would think the one
thing you want the person to do is leave. Maybe for a
particular event, but maybe he'll decide to stay in
Greece if once he's there for the -- but it seems very
odd to say we're going to show you how much we don't
want you here; we're not going to let you leave.
MR. MILLER: I think what the -- what the
history shows that it's the crossing the border that has
always been regarded as a legally significant event.
This Court's cases recognizing --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it wasn't before.
We -- I think we have held that an immigration lawyer is
obliged to tell a defendant faced with a criminal charge
what the legal -- what the immigration consequences will
be. And here, suppose before the -- at the time of the
plea in this case, the attorney had said, once you've
served your time, you will be able to take brief casual
trips. That would have been accurate advice, right?
Before IIRIRA.
MR. MILLER: Well, I think -- I think the
most important point about the consequence of the plea
is that, as an immediate result of the plea under
pre-IIRIRA law, so at the time he pleaded guilty in
1994, he made himself inadmissible. So, that's not
anything that has changed. So, he knew that he was --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I'm asking you, the
lawyer talking to the client -- and the client wants to
know before I enter this plea, what will be the
consequence for me? And the question that's asked is,
will I still be able to visit my mother in Greece? What
should the lawyer -- what should the lawyer at that time
have answered?
MR. MILLER: I think the lawyer should have
said, by pleading guilty, you are making yourself
inadmissible to the United States. Under --
JUSTICE BREYER: When Rosenberg would have
been the law -- Fleuti -- and the answer to the question
would have been, yes, you can make trips abroad,
wouldn't it?
MR. MILLER: That's -- that's right. And I
think you might also have said that under a current law,
you will not be regarded as seeking an admission if you
take a brief, casual, and innocent trip. But the change
in the law --
JUSTICE KAGAN: All right. Well, that's
what's going to be important to the person, right? It's
not inadmissible and all the legal terms. Am I going to
be able to make short trips to visit my mother? Yes,
you are going to be able to make short trips to visit
your mother.
And then you wake up the next morning, and
Congress has passed a statute, and now you're not able
to take short trips to visit your mother. So, something
very real has happened to the life of this person.
MR. MILLER: That's -- that's right, I mean,
and there is no question but that there is a serious
consequence as a result of the change in the law. But
the Court has made clear in Landgraf and in a number of
other cases that even uncontroversially prospective
statutes can impose burdens.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's true, but in -- in
St. Cyr, as I read it, on pages 322 and 23, the Court
focused directly, not on the crime point of time, but
the time of the guilty plea. And what the Court says
there is that a person who is thinking of pleading
guilty might well have taken into account the fact that
he could ask the Attorney General later when he's about
to be deported to exercise discretion in his favor.
So, that's as I read those pages. You can
say why I'm not reading them correctly, but that's how I
read them. And then, having read it that way, I thought
the question in this case is whether the person who's
sitting at the table and deciding whether to plead
guilty or not is likely to think, well, if I plead
guilty, I can always ask for discretion. That's St.
Cyr.
Well, if I plead guilty, I can still visit
my aging parents and grandparents, a matter that could
be of importance to some people, as opposed to whether I
will never see them again. Now, that seems to be the
question.
Is the second as likely to be in the
person's mind as the first? And to tell you the truth,
I don't know the answer. I mean, maybe it would be.
There isn't that much chance of getting discretion. It
might be important to some people to visit their aging
parents and grandparents. So, go ahead. Answer the
question. Is the one more important than the other?
And if not, why not?
MR. MILLER: I think you've correctly
described the reasoning of the Court in St. Cyr, and I
think that that reasoning highlights two ways in which
this case is significantly different. And the first is
that, in St. Cyr, it was the guilty plea, the
conviction, that was legally significant under the
provision of IIRIRA at issue there. And the Court
emphasized that a guilty plea is a quid pro quo. It has
to be knowing and voluntary. The Court cited
Santobello v. New York, a due process case about guilty
pleas. And then -- so, one difference in this case is
that the legally significant event here --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but I'm really asking
you --
MR. MILLER: -- is not the guilty plea.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- isn't my question the
key question? Now, you can answer that "no." But -- I
mean, I suppose you could prove that the only thing that
mattered to -- to LPRs who plead guilty, the only thing
that mattered, was visiting their parents and
grandparents, a matter I doubt; but, you can say, even
on that situation, it would make no difference, or you
could say I think the one is as important as the other,
or you could say they're not. I just want to get your
full answer, all -- your whole answer to my question.
MR. MILLER: The conclusion to the first
part of the answer is that it wouldn't make a difference
because what matters here is not the guilty plea; what
triggers the application of 1101(a)(13)(C) is the
underlying criminal conduct and is --
JUSTICE KAGAN: You're quite right,
Mr. Miller, as a formal matter that that's true, that
that's the words of the statute. But how many times has
the Department of Homeland Security tried to declare a
person inadmissible on the basis of the commission of a
crime without putting into evidence either a conviction
or a guilty plea?
MR. MILLER: I don't have any --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I can't imagine that it's
like more than on one -- you know, five fingers of your
hand. I mean, that's the way people prove crimes in
this area, isn't it, by convictions or guilty pleas?
MR. MILLER: Well, I would say that -- this
is a statue --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Or convictions after trial
or convictions by guilty pleas.
MR. MILLER: The statute is being applied
by -- in the first instance, by customs officers at the
airport or at the land border crossing. They have
access to a number of databases which include not only
records of convictions but also things like arrest
warrants. And an arrest warrant by itself would not be
enough to show that a person had, in fact, committed an
offense, but it might well trigger some further inquiry
from the customs officer that would lead to them finding
out more information or perhaps getting an admission
from the person.
JUSTICE KAGAN: If, as a fact of the matter,
the way the commission of crime is proved in this area
is through showing a conviction, does your distinction
stand up at all?
MR. MILLER: I mean, there is still, I
think, a significant formal distinction, and then
there's also another important distinction from St. Cyr,
which is that that was a case where, as a result of the
guilty plea plus the change in law, the person there
faced immediate deportability with no prospect of
discretionary relief. And the Court said that there is
a clear difference, for purposes of the retroactivity
analysis, between a possibility of deportability and a
certainty of deportation.
Here, not only is he not deportable, but
there's no immediate consequence for him at all. The
statute only has any effect on him when he engages in
the post-enactment travel. And I think --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the
characterization? Which seemed to me to make common
sense. Yes, the trigger is that he has gone abroad and
is returning. But the target, they say, was the crime.
That's why the law -- the law really doesn't care about
the travel back and forth; what it cares about is that
this person was convicted of a crime.
MR. MILLER: I -- I don't think that's
correct, Your Honor, and I think that highlights one of
the distinctions between this case and Cummings v.
Missouri and Ex parte Garland.
In those cases, you had statutes that were
nominally prospective in application, but the Court
actually said that we think that what's really happening
here is that the statutes are imposing punishment for
the completed acts. To the extent there was any doubt
in those cases themselves, this Court discussed them
both in Harisiades v. Shaughnessy and said that it
viewed them as cases about punishment. This is not a
statute --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But isn't that the case
here, meaning -- it goes back to the Chief Justice's
question, which is what they're trying to do is punish
those individuals, those LPRs, who have committed this
kind of crime, by not letting them travel or come back
in. That's really what their argument is, is -- you
know, you are imposing a punishment, a disability, for
having committed the crime. You're not imposing a
disability merely for the act of traveling.
MR. MILLER: I mean, I think when you look
at the statute as a whole, you see that it's a -- it's a
comprehensive regulation of crossing the border, which
has always been regarded as a legally significant event.
There are six subparts to 1101(a)(13)(C). Five of them
have nothing to do with past conduct. They're about the
nature of the trip and what the alien is doing as he's
coming in.
And then you have -- have this one, which is
of a piece with the long history of drawing a
distinction between inadmissibility and deportability.
And I think it recognizes --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the -- what
is the policy underlying the rule that doesn't allow
somebody who has a lawful status here to go to his
grandmother's funeral --
MR. MILLER: I -- I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- and come back?
It's going to take 4 days. He goes; he comes back.
What policy supports prohibiting that travel?
MR. MILLER: I mean, I -- I think it
reflects a -- a judgment over -- on the part of Congress
over many, many years that it is one thing to say to an
alien, all right, we're not going to go and try and find
you and take you and kick you out of the country. It is
quite another to say you may freely cross our borders;
even after having left, you may come back, and we're --
without any inquiry into your --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. They're two
different things, but I don't know that you've
articulated what the policy is to prevent -- prohibit
somebody from doing that.
MR. MILLER: I mean, other than referring
you to -- to the history and to the idea that's been
reflected -- you know, this Court has recognized that
control over the border is a core sovereign prerogative
that lies at the heart of Congress's immigration power.
And I think that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I suppose you could
say that there's a likelihood of quite inequitable
enforcement if indeed you adopt a position we're going
to pick up all of these people and send them away.
That's not going to happen. It'll -- it'll be hit and
miss.
And, on the other hand, you can enforce it
rigorously and equitably upon everyone if you only
forbid reentry to those people who want to come back in
and who have to, you know, give their names to
Immigration, and you can check on -- on this status.
That seems to me a sensible reason.
MR. MILLER: That's right. And --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But why do you
-- look, as I read the statute, it isn't even clear
whether it overrules Rosenberg v. Fleuti. I mean, they
talk about admission, but admission, after all,
could have an exception for the 4-day trip. That's what
the Court said effectively in Rosenberg v. Fleuti.
So, Congress certainly wasn't clear on what
policy they're following. I would have thought that.
You can disagree with that. But I -- because -- but the
part that's still gnawing at me 95 percent of the people
plead guilty. All right. You know. Everybody pleads
guilty. All -- about. About. And now, the consequence
that this ex post enacts is he can't take the 4-day
trip.
And you keep saying, well, a 4-day trip
requires action on a person's part. Right. Of course,
it does. So, why does that matter? I mean, the fact is
he can't take the 4-day trip. A 4-day trip requires
action. You have to buy a trip -- ticket. You have to
get on a plane. So --
MR. MILLER: Well, i think -- if I could
just first address the -- the question of whether the
statute, in fact, abrogates Fleuti, and just to be clear
on that -- the question presented assumes that it does.
Petitioner isn't challenging that. And the Board, in
the Collado-Munoz decision, has explained why the -- the
statute, in fact, does have that effect.
And I think that the significance of this
post-enactment conduct, the significance of the trip, is
illustrated by this Court's decision in
Fernandez-Vargas, which made clear that when you have --
when the application of the statute is within the
control of the person to whom it's being applied,
because he has to do something after it comes into
effect -- there, it was choosing to remain in the United
States and becoming subject to the reinstatement of a
prior order of removal -- here, it's taking the travel.
But that goes a long way towards establishing that it
doesn't have a retroactive effect, that it's regulating
future conduct.
Another --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Prior to the Fernandez
case, the illegal act was remaining. And so, that was
within your control. But the -- you can't undo an
illegal act that you've done to be able to travel. The
act is now part of your background. And so, there's
nothing in your control to change that act once the
statute has passed.
MR. MILLER: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so, you're -- you're
carrying that around as a disability.
MR. MILLER: In Fernandez-Vargas, the
conduct that subjected the alien to the application of
this -- this procedural -- this disadvantageous removal
procedure was remaining in the United States.
And it's true that that conduct was
unlawful, but for purposes of the retroactivity
analysis, the Court didn't focus on whether it was
lawful or unlawful. What matters is that it was conduct
that was in the future, that was after the statute was
enacted.
And so, here, although the -- the trip is
not unlawful in that sense, it is future conduct. And
here, as in Fernandez-Vargas, there is ample warning --
which was another point that the Court emphasized in
that case -- ample warning that the statute would be
applied to people who engaged in that conduct.
I do want to address your --
JUSTICE KAGAN: It -- it can't be right that
it's any future conduct. If -- if there's a trigger
mechanism that is entirely random, you know, it's -- you
can be deported if you've committed a crime of moral
turpitude in the past, but not until you go to the
movies on a Saturday.
Surely, that would not change the analysis.
MR. MILLER: I think that's right, Your
Honor, and I think the reason it wouldn't is reflected
in some of this Court's -- in the ex post facto
analysis.
If you have a statute that, for example,
makes it a crime to have engaged in certain conduct in
the past and then, you know, something -- some
commonplace, utterly trivial activity in the future, I
think a court looking at that would say this is not --
although it is nominally prospective, this is really a
statute aimed at punishing the prior conduct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I -- I don't know.
I think it would be prospective and unconstitutional
because it's irrational. I mean, not everything that's
unconstitutional is unconstitutional -- not everything
that is unconstitutional is not prospective, it seems to
-- or do you think that's so?
If it's -- if it is unconstitutional in
violation of the ex post facto law, the statute has to
be -- has to be prospective. I'm sorry. Has to be
assumed not to cover that prior conduct. Is that right?
MR. MILLER: I mean, I think -- the
hypothetical statute I was describing I think would
violate the Ex Post Facto Clause under the sort of
analysis that this Court used in Smith v. Doe, in a
holding that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. And if it does, it
automatically has to be interpreted not to cover that?
MR. MILLER: I mean --
JUSTICE SCALIA: By reason of the
presumption of expectation --
MR. MILLER: Oh, you mean -- if you mean a
parallel statute in the civil context.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, yes.
MR. MILLER: I -- I think that's the best
reading of Landgraf, and I think under -- under the
analysis suggested in your concurring opinion in
Landgraf --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. Yes.
MR. MILLER: -- I think one would look at
that statute and say this is really a statute that's
aimed at regulating the past conduct, and that -- that
has a retroactive effect.
So, I mean, to finish that thought, I think
I would just say that there is a narrow category of
cases where you have what is in form a prospective
regulation that's really aimed at -- aimed at burdening
or punishing a past act. But this is not that.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And how do we separate those
two? How do we decide that this is not that, and that
it's instead something else, that it's a regulation of
future conduct?
MR. MILLER: I -- in the criminal context,
the Court has used the analysis of Kennedy v.
Mendoza-Martinez to figure out whether a statute is --
is imposing additional punishment for past conduct. And
that looks at a number of factors, and the most
important factor under that test, the Court has said, is
whether the statute appears to be related to a
legitimate prospective regulatory purpose.
And so, that's why, for example, statutes
like 922(g), the felon in possession statute, which was,
I would point out, amended just back in 1996 to add
misdemeanor crimes of domestic violence, which had not
previously been something that would subject one to a
firearms disability -- that was added.
Every court of appeals that has considered
the question has held that it doesn't violate the Ex
Post Facto Clause and, I think, implicitly has held that
it does in fact reach that conduct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even -- even if you had
pleaded guilty to spousal abuse?
MR. MILLER: I'm not aware of any cases --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. MILLER: -- specifically addressing that
question, but -- but, yes, because there you have a
statute that is regulating future conduct. It only
applies to somebody who engages in the future conduct.
The sex offender registration laws are another example
that this Court has upheld. That kind of law obviously
imposes a very significant burden on people on the basis
of prior conduct, but the fact that there is some burden
by itself does not mean that the statute is retroactive.
Nor does it mean that it's appropriately
viewed as imposing a disability. I mean, I think that
the Court in Landgraf quoted Justice Story's formulation
of a disability as referring to statutes that impose a
disability in respect to transactions that are already
passed. So, it is not enough that there used to be
something that you could do, and now, in the future,
you're not going to be able to do that. That's not a
disability in the relevant sense, and if it were, I
think the Court would have a very difficult line-drawing
problem to figure out why it is that statutes like
922(g) are okay, or sex offender registration laws, or
any number of --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's -- that's why I
think the Chief Justice's question and the ambiguity of
the statute are relevant. Like with SORNA you would
apply it backwards, because that's a pretty clear
intent.
I don't know about, you know, like, "three
times and you're out" statutes, et cetera. But -- but
here you have the disability on the one -- the
disadvantage to the person pleading guilty, that
problem, on the one hand; and, on the other hand, you
have the policy that with a -- fill in the blank --
with a statute that doesn't talk about it but simply
uses a new definition of admission or admissibility.
That's -- do you want to say something about that?
MR. MILLER: I think, if you're -- if you're
asking whether Congress has specifically addressed the
temporal scope of the statute, we -- we acknowledge
under St. Cyr that it hasn't. And so, that's why we're
at step two of the --
JUSTICE BREYER: More than that, what is --
I'm ignoring -- more than that, I'm saying what's the
policy on the other side? The policy that favors the
retroactivity despite the fact that the person might not
have pleaded guilty? And that's why I was interested in
the Chief Justice's question and also the ambiguity of
the language in the statute that they used.
MR. MILLER: I think that the -- the policy
is Congress was trying to redefine -- I mean, they were
replacing the old term of "entry" and -- with a new
concept of admission. They're trying to redefine a
comprehensive scheme for regulating the treatment of
aliens arriving at the border. And I think that you
have to look at all the parts of it together as a scheme
that was to be applied going forward, when people
arrived at the border in the future, after the enactment
of the statute.
If there are no further questions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could you go over
again for me your distinction of St. Cyr?
MR. MILLER: I think it's twofold, Your
Honor. The first is that, in St. Cyr, the legally
significant event was the conviction. It was the guilty
plea. Here, the guilty plea is significant because it
makes Petitioner inadmissible, but that was true under
current law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't argue that
-- that the significance of what the individual is
giving up makes a difference?
MR. MILLER: That's our second point, is
that St. Cyr said there is a big difference between
immediate deportability and the potential --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there -- is there
a difference in terms of what they face if they don't
plead guilty? I've always had difficulty with St. Cyr
and the notion that, say, someone pleads -- is facing,
you know, 10 years, and they plead -- plead guilty to 2
years, that the -- the reason they did that is to, you
know, avoid one of these immigration provisions. It
seems to me it is to avoid 8 years.
MR. MILLER: I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And I just wonder if
the relative significance of what is at issue under the
immigration law is something that we can take into
account, or if St. Cyr prohibits that?
MR. MILLER: No, I think it is certainly
appropriate to take into account, that however --
however significant the application of Fleuti might be
to aliens, it's on a different order of significance
from --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Miller, the
Solicitor General actually represented to us -- in the
Judulang argument, used that as an example, the Fleuti
case, as something that people doing pleas did think
about and did rely upon.
MR. MILLER: Well, I think -- I mean, we
don't question that that's something that people might
have -- have been aware of and have been thinking about,
but it's not something that was bargained for in the
plea agreement because it's not something that's
affected by the plea agreement.
The statute here is triggered by the
post-enactment conduct of entering the country but also
by the -- the pre-enactment conduct of committing the
crime. And, as Petitioner has acknowledged, there isn't
any reliance in the state of immigration law when you
choose to commit the crime. And so, I think that's --
that's a difference from the scenario that was addressed
in Judulang.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Miller.
MR. MILLER: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Bibas, you have
6 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHANOS BIBAS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BIBAS: Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like
to make five points.
The first one is the statute is poorly
tailored to any protective or forward-looking effect.
As the Court has noted, its perverse effect is to
discourage people from leaving the country, to keep them
in. So, any idea that the purpose is to get them out
just doesn't square with the way the statute is written.
As Justice Ginsburg noted, while the
post-IIRIRA innocent travel may be the trigger here, the
obvious target is the pre-IIRIRA offense. The statute
is tied to misconduct. The natural inference of making
misconduct not just a piece of evidence but a
prerequisite is that it is the misconduct that is being
penalized.
Second, the impact, we suggest, is the
relevant test. The impact is a penalty. It is a
disability based on a past act that Mr. Vartelas is now
helpless to undo. That is all that is required under
Landgraf. If Congress thinks it important, it can
expressly require retroactivity, but it hasn't done so.
Third, let me make clear that we have
alternative theories here. Reliance is something that
makes the case worse. It is something that exacerbates
the problem, makes it obvious and severe. And our
amici, the NACDL brief, points out very movingly how
important these kinds of considerations are in
immigrants' decisions to plead guilty. Here, for
example, my client received a 4-month discount off his
sentencing range. It's entirely plausible to believe
that immigrants in his situation might value the ability
to stay in the same country with their 4-year-old and
2-year-old child as much as 4 months in jail.
But our broader theory is that the violation
of settled expectations is sufficient, whether or not
there's reliance. The settled expectation that one has
of planning one's life in this country and yet having
relatives abroad one will tend to or care for their
business, et cetera -- that is sufficient. Just as in
Landgraf and Hughes Aircraft, there were no legally
cognizable reliance interests in discriminating or in
submitting false claims, but changing the penalties is
enough.
Fourth, this Court's decision in St. Cyr, I
believe, strongly helps our case. The first reason is
that it imposed a disability, a disability on filing in
the future for discretionary relief, but as a practical
matter, it's burdening past conduct.
Secondly, St. Cyr didn't purport to change
the holdings in Landgraf and Hughes Aircraft that those
are other ways of showing impermissible retroactivity.
The logic in St. Cyr is ineluctable that because you are
burdening a decision, a decision that, as the -- the
Court and the amici in St. Cyr noted, matters greatly
and factors into things like the plea bargaining
calculus, that the retroactivity is especially obvious
and -- and severe.
And let me note that St. Cyr was decided under
this same statute, a privilege, not a right, a privilege
that Congress can abrogate at any time. That did not
influence this Court's holding at all. The
right/privilege distinction is dead in this area of law.
If there is a privilege under IIRIRA to apply for
discretionary relief, there is a privilege to not be
subject to the disability on one's traveling and
returning.
Finally, let me talk about the
criminal/civil line. I believe my brother here
introduced Smith v. Doe and mentioned some of the sex
offender cases. I've explained why the criminal cases
in ex post facto are different, but let me go into some
more detail as the Court is well familiar with
Smith v. Doe. That was a civil case that Doe attempted
to turn into a criminal case under the very demanding
standard in Kennedy v. Mendoza-Martinez. But that's a
very uphill fight. As the Court's opinion recognized,
the court must be very deferential before turning
something facially civil into criminal because then it's
categorically forbidden and it comes with the criminal
procedure protections in the Bill of Rights.
That's not what we're doing now. We're not
trying to say this law is forbidden. Smith v. Doe
involved a law where the Court's opinion said on its
face the legislature made it retroactive; it says it's
retroactive. The Federal law SORNA is expressly
retroactive in section 113(d). IIRIRA is expressly
retroactive. That's a different inquiry, where you're
asking, does the Ex Post Facto Clause forbid something
that's expressly retroactive? Does Mendoza-Martinez
turn it into a criminal case?
Versus here, where it's not retroactive.
All Congress has to do is spell it out. If this Court
adheres to its previous jurisprudence, the guidance to
the drafters across the street is clear: Just draft the
statutes the way you've always been doing it; say
before, on, or after effective date.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think we have the
authority to tell Congress how to draft its laws? I
thought what we were doing was trying to infer what they
intended.
MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do we send them a drafting
manual? Now, you can do this, but you can only do it if
you do it -- if you follow the steps that we've
prescribed. And you've said this over and over. It
seems to be completely unfounded.
MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, this Court has said
that it's important to adhere to its traditional tools
of statutory construction because it's a settled
background rule against which Congress legislates, which
it is aware of.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you think Landgraf is
clear and settled, and you're -- you're over there in
Congress, and you say, boy, I know how this statute is
going to come out under Landgraf --
MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- better than I am.
MR. BIBAS: Let me explain. This Court
decided Landgraf two decades ago. A few years after
Landgraf, Congress passed IIRIRA in 1996. IIRIRA
contains express retroactivity provisions that go
hand-in-glove with the Landgraf presumption.
And then Congress passed SORNA, to which my
brother alludes. SORNA in 2005 likewise in section
113(d) says, yes, this sex offender registration shall
apply; the Attorney General can apply it to people with
pre-SORNA convictions. Congress understands the
Landgraf presumption. In those statutes and others, it
has legislated against it. It can continue to do it
because this Court should continue to use its
traditional tools of statutory construction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that can be explained
because Congress understands that who knows whether it's
going to be held to be retroactive or not. If you -- if
you surely want it to apply, you'd better say so. If
that's the rule you want us to adopt, that's okay.
MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor, and a clear
statement rule has that virtue, as I believe Your Honor
is well aware.
For all of these reasons, we ask this Court
to reverse the judgment below and remand.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:19 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
23:18 address 36:22 allow 25:13 applying 3:12 attorney 1:7
38:18 34:13 3:21 23:13 26:22 28:23
21:2 46:8 altering 17:8 9:9,13 16:23 Austria 7:14 9:1
27:11 addressing alternative 5:10 17:18 18:24 9:15
37:20 41:25 47:14 23:20 authority 50:14
adhere 50:24 Altmann 7:14 appropriate automatic 4:21
52:12 admissibility ambiguity 42:23 appropriately automatically
11:23 admission 14:5 amended 41:13 area 31:12 32:4 avoid 45:4,5
32:23 19:2 25:1,4 American 4:8 49:3 aware 41:23
27:23 32:1 amici 4:7 47:17 argue 44:17 45:23 51:2
44:1 ample 38:14,16 argument 1:13 a.m 1:14 3:2
32:15 38:8,25 5:3,9 7:10 B
45:10,12 advert 14:25 answer 16:1,12 33:21 45:18 34:17,18 35:1
affirmatively 30:20,20,22 12:17 10:24 14:19,22
aged 4:5 appeals 20:9,10 arrived 44:6 51:1
13:1 APPEARAN... 44:3 42:25
26:1 aging 29:9,17 1:15 articulated 35:5 balance 23:22
37:18,20 ago 51:10 appears 41:9 Asian 4:8 bank 5:4,7
40:23 agreement application 24:9 aside 7:24 17:23 bar 18:18 19:5
45:25 46:1 30:24 33:8 asked 27:10 bargained 45:24
aimed 39:11 applied 7:25 aspects 14:2 based 3:21
11:12 21:23 22:2 44:5 13:21 14:10 basic 14:8
24:16 48:6,16 applies 8:21 assumed 13:18 basis 7:10 26:2,3
airport 31:19 12:9 17:15 39:21 31:5 42:6
aliens 24:22 18:12 22:16 attached 6:7 believe 5:22
19:6 47:17 49:20 40:8 49:14,19 commonplace
47:21 briefing 18:14 category 18:25 claim 20:21 39:8
49:9 broadening 6:3 23:19,21 40:20 claims 6:2 48:8 commonsense
broader 10:14 caught 5:5 class 6:3 15:23
brother 49:9 36:7 45:11 clauses 10:17 comprehensive
4:12,20 burdens 28:16 change 6:17 50:10 51:4 20:10
6:16 7:2 business 48:5 19:21 27:24 52:3 concept 44:1
9:2,9,14,19 buy 10:9 36:19 28:13 32:11 client 22:9 27:8 concerned 4:10
37:22 38:25 27:8 47:20 5:17
12:23 C 48:15 closely 24:19 conclude 19:4
14:9 C 2:1 3:1 25:4 changed 4:13 codification conclusion
15:21 calculus 48:22 14:3 19:24 25:9 13:16,22 30:21
17:23 care 16:9,10 27:6 codify 25:6 concurred 7:15
32:25 48:4 changing 14:4 cognizable concurrence
21:11 career 12:15,20 48:8 21:24 48:7 7:22 8:6,7
22:18,21 17:4 characterizati... Collado-Munoz concurring
23:12 careers 4:4 32:22 37:1 40:12
careful 10:19 charge 26:19 colleague 16:1 conduct 6:15
51:7 cares 15:15 33:1 check 35:23 come 11:24 16:7 8:13,14 11:4
52:3 carrying 38:1 Chief 3:3,8 5:2 17:16 24:25 12:19 14:15
31:19 33:5,16 37:18 35:3 42:23 commission 39:6,11,21
35:10 38:16 45:19 43:21 44:9,17 5:20 31:5 32:4 40:17 41:2,6
47:15 48:11 44:23 45:7 commit 20:20 41:20 42:2,3,7
30:8,11 28:15 33:7,12 choose 17:3 46:7 17:10 22:16 Congress 4:12
42:22 33:14 40:21 choosing 37:10 26:4 31:23 6:16,19 7:2
41:23 49:11,11 cite 7:11 33:19,23 38:22 10:16,23 11:1
25:10 27:24 cites 7:12 20:22 46:4 12:6,18 13:2,9
27:24 categorically civil 17:25 23:3 common 32:22 13:16,22 14:10
12:10 13:10 6:10,12,23 databases 31:20 32:17
22:11 15:6 25:20 12:4,25 20:20 date 8:12,15 deportation
31:12,15,16,21 20:22 22:16 12:11 13:12 32:16
34:21 51:18 26:1 28:19 15:12 50:12 deported 8:24
43:12,24 core 35:10 31:6 32:4,24 days 34:18 28:24 38:22
49:1 correct 33:4 33:2,20,23 dead 49:3 deporting 26:7
51:1,5 correctly 29:1 38:22 39:6 dealing 19:9 deprivation
29:21 46:5,7 decades 5:25 10:19
35:11 23:24 25:11 16:19 31:11 decide 15:1 described 29:22
7:4,5,6,6 11:21,23 14:6 12:16,20,24 decided 48:24 despite 43:19
28:13 15:16 16:2 25:19 26:19 51:10 detail 49:13
36:12 24:17 25:13 30:25 41:3 decides 6:19 deter 22:8
6:7,18 7:1 47:23 48:3 50:6 decision 13:17 24:24
20:13,24 course 6:16 criminal/civil 20:23 37:1,5 deterred 7:4
26:20 36:16 49:9 48:10,19,19 deterrent 11:5
7:16,19 9:4 cross 34:25 declare 31:4 difference 6:8
14:19 15:2 31:19 34:2 default 14:19 30:22 32:14
19:20 20:5,8 18:15 19:8 defeasible 23:2 46:8
22:12 23:6,9,9 24:4 current 19:16 defendants 8:16,17 10:5
51:22 29:22 30:2,4 customs 31:18 defense 6:4 13:8 24:7
12:24 38:15 39:9,25 19:19 21:15,16 definition 12:9 50:3
17:24,25 41:4,8,17 42:5 21:22,25 23:12 14:4 25:4 43:9 difficult 42:18
41:3 42:11,18 46:21 28:18 29:7,22 demanding difficulty 44:25
51:20,21 50:8,23 51:9 43:14 44:10,12 denied 4:23 28:19
Court's 21:19 48:10,15,18,20 1:19 31:4 23:17
37:5 39:3 23:14,16 15:10 18:7,7
49:24 D 1:18 2:6 3:1 23:10 23:19 33:22,24
30:1 cover 39:21 40:3 damages 5:25 25:25 26:3 42:10,12,13,17
32:5 covered 3:16 danger 11:8 32:12,15 34:10 43:4 47:9
8:12 dangerous 11:4 44:22 48:12,12 49:6
43:5 drafters 50:10 entered 12:10 41:11 42:4 42:7 43:19
draw 18:4 21:6 entering 46:3 examples 19:2 10:17 13:2,7
D.C 1:9,19 entirely 13:4 exclusive 16:21 41:19 49:12
46:22 E entitled 21:8 exists 25:19 factor 20:7 41:8
earlier 16:22 entry 8:20,22,23 expectation 4:4 24:7 41:7
18:12 easy 21:25 15:16,20 24:22 6:24 22:14 fairly 25:8
32:13 effect 13:24 43:25 40:6 48:2 false 6:2 48:8
49:5 14:18 15:9,13 equitably 35:20 expectations familiar 49:13
17:12,13 21:20 24:1 5:13,18,19 favor 28:24
37:14 40:18 21:21 48:22 21:14 22:3,7 feature 25:18
12:11 13:11 establishing 21:15 51:9 felon 10:5,20
24:5 effectively 36:6 et 43:3 48:5 49:11 51:23 12:1,5,16
17:2,18 9:21,23,24 express 14:4 felony 12:9
31:6 26:9,15 30:7 4:13 9:15 Fernandez-Va...
32:5,8,9 17:19 38:11 evidence 17:9,15 50:1,2,5 figure 5:3 22:10
44:10 enactment 17:15 18:4 extended 9:17 41:5 42:19
24:12,20 44:6 31:6 47:4 extending 25:9 file 6:4
33:5 encourage 16:4 13:2,7 17:24 extra 20:7 fill 43:7
35:15 39:3,19,24 face 44:24 49:25 find 34:23
49:22 38:17 39:6 50:4 32:12 fingers 31:10
engages 32:19 exacerbates facially 49:19 finish 40:19
12:16 13:3 16:11 28:22 31:23 41:16
25:17 17:1 22:8 going 4:9 5:4,7 13:25 14:14,16
30:21 functional 15:23 11:22,22 12:19 H 15:21 16:15
36:22 funeral 34:15 14:18 16:6,14 H 1:6 18:1 21:11
46:19 funerals 4:6 26:11,12 28:2 Hadix 15:22 22:21 23:12
further 23:8,22 28:3,5 34:18 Hampshire 7:20 33:4 39:2
46:18 9:11,21,23 51:6,25 hands 11:20 52:3,4
18:8,9,12,17 6:2 7:11,11 happen 15:11 21:23 22:2
36:3,6 23:11,14,16,18 9:22 10:22 35:17 48:6,16
45:13,18 25:2 37:15 11:11 15:15,17 happened 28:10 hypothetical
48:13 Government's Harisiades idea 35:8 46:23
Garland 18:15 grace 19:3 heavier 12:25 4:14 12:8,8,12
general 1:7,19 34:15 41:19 51:25 26:25 30:2
45:17 51:17 29:9,18 30:16 helpful 25:23 51:11,11
32:21 46:25 guidelines 21:1 34:9 35:8 47:19,22
44:5 giving 14:22 21:8,10 22:1 Holder 1:6 3:4 35:23 45:4,9
46:20 gnawing 36:10 28:22 29:5,6,8 18:17 19:13 immunities 9:5
14:7 15:8 16:5 30:10,14,23 holdings 21:22 impact 5:23
48:10 34:14,23 38:23 32:11 36:11,12 home 17:4 impermissible
31:24 35:2 9:18 10:4,8 knew 12:11 27:6 lawyer 26:18
inside 11:25 13:14,20 14:7 18:1 23:10 lead 31:25
27:2 28:2 intend 14:17 15:25 16:23 29:15 31:10 25:14 26:8,12
30:18 intended 13:16 17:5 18:7,24 33:22 35:4,9 leaving 11:23
41:8 13:22,23 14:11 19:1,10,15 35:22 36:11 46:22
50:24 14:12 22:11 20:16,19 21:4 38:21 39:7,12 leeway 13:2
intent 13:17,21 22:19,22 23:5 51:5 legal 3:13 15:24
41:6 interests 48:7 27:17 28:1,17 34:3 44:12
interpret 17:6 30:8,11 31:1,9 L 48:6
26:2 interpreted 40:3 35:3,13 36:1 5:17,24 7:10 legislated 51:20
introduced 37:17,25 38:19 7:15 8:3,6 legislates 14:23
28:3 involve 18:8 40:14,24 41:21 14:19 15:2,22 legislative 14:1
44:15 22:2 41:24 42:11,22 17:1 21:23 19:3
irrational 39:14 50:13,18 51:3 51:3,6,10,11 10:18,20
7:23 8:7 9:25 Justice's 33:17 language 43:22 13:4 41:10
45:8 law 3:20 4:13,18 lies 35:11
KAGAN 10:4,8 14:1 18:16 48:3
January 1:10 24:13 28:1 27:22,25 28:13 limitation 26:6
judgment 11:11 38:19 40:24 39:19 42:5 11:19
Judulang 45:18 46:22 49:24 50:1 line-drawing
23:4 50:9 kept 24:14 38:9 logic 48:18
47:1 5:16 6:8,22 7:8 kind 33:20 42:5 22:25 42:4,20 longer 12:21
17:12 meaning 33:17 mother 27:11 O outside 14:6
33:25 meaningful 28:4,6,9 O 2:1 3:1 outweigh 15:1
40:15 23:20 movies 38:24 obliged 26:19 outweighed 6:20
meant 8:13 movingly 47:17 obvious 20:8 override 10:16
15:18 38:21 47:16 48:22 overrule 21:22
Mendoza-Ma... names 35:22 odd 26:11 PAGE 2:2
49:16 narrow 10:19 offender 42:4,20 pages 28:18,25
51:16
Miller 1:18 2:6 necessary 20:9 47:2 17:3 21:3 29:9
17:9 24:18 25:16,22 need 13:4 16:25 20:13 23:2 parent's 16:5
47:3 26:13 27:1,14 needed 14:3 office 18:17 part 12:3 25:3,5
20:12,23 37:24 38:2 12:25 14:20 40:2 42:20 particularly
29:9 39:1,22 40:4,7 15:9,24 22:4 52:2 16:16
31:2 40:10,15 41:3 30:5 43:9,25 old 43:25 parts 44:4
36:17 41:23,25 43:11 nexus 11:7 once 16:7 26:10 party 16:5 23:7
52:12 43:23 44:11,20 nominally 33:8 26:22 37:22 pass 17:8
46:11,12 non-retroacti... one-way 3:25 passed 4:18 6:10
38:9 minutes 46:14 note 48:24 operating 17:14 22:15,17 28:8
misconduct 22:9 noted 12:2,12,24 operative 20:19 37:23 42:14
25:18 misdemeanor 48:20 21:19 40:12 penalized 47:6
29:15 41:14 notes 12:25 49:17,24 penalizing 3:14
31:11 Missouri 18:15 notice 7:3 opposed 29:10 penalties 48:8
33:25 33:6 notion 45:1 opposing 18:14 penalty 5:23
35:7 moment 5:13 nullity 18:25 opposite 16:11 16:18,19 18:9
39:14 months 47:24 number 20:24 oral 1:12 2:2,5 47:8
40:4,7,7 moral 26:1 24:7 25:4 3:6 24:1 Pennsylvania
42:8,9 38:22 28:14 31:20 order 16:4 37:12 1:16
43:24 morning 24:5 41:7 42:21 45:14 people 4:2 6:4
28:7 outlined 16:24 8:23 11:8,14
12:20 30:3,10,23 10:17 13:2,7 previous 50:9 14:21
17:21 31:7 32:11 17:24 23:4 previously protecting 11:25
29:10,17 44:14,14 45:25 36:13 39:3,19 41:15 protections
35:16,21 46:1 48:21 39:24 41:19 pre-enactment 49:21
38:17 plead 20:14,17 49:12 50:4 22:5 23:1,2 protective 11:4
44:5 20:23 29:4,5,8 postdate 24:20 46:4 16:20 46:20
46:22 30:14 36:11 postdated 24:11 pre-IIRIRA prove 13:23
44:25 45:2,2 postdates 8:3 3:14,20,21 30:13 31:11
pleading 5:21 46:3 51:18 25:8 30:2
26:7,8
14:25 20:1 prior 6:13,24 punish 18:22
pleas 30:6 31:12 44:22 11:15 14:11 22:8 33:18
31:5,23 31:16 45:19 power 6:17 17:10 37:12,17 punishing 7:5
33:2 please 3:9 24:4 10:19 19:21 39:11,21 42:7 13:5 39:11
43:5,19 plenary 19:20 35:11 privilege 7:9 40:23
12:1,13 15:8 48:13 49:5 33:22 41:6
20:2,12 22:8 practice 23:16 probably 25:9 purely 19:3
2:4,10 3:7 pointing 9:11,21 18:3,5 procedural 17:1 41:10
24:10 points 25:17 premise 13:19 17:25 38:4 46:23
44:15 46:18 47:17 14:8 20:9 procedure 8:9 purposes 32:14
policy 34:13,19 prerequisite 38:5 49:21 38:7
43:18,18,23 prerogative prohibit 35:5 12:18,21
10:21 11:3,7 presented 13:19 propose 8:1 7:9,13 13:19
27:2,3,9 possibly 16:18 pretty 42:25 40:21 41:10 41:18 42:1,23
29:25 post 7:18 10:15 prevent 35:5 prospectively 43:21 45:22
redefine 43:24 46:6 47:14 23:6,10 37:14 round 3:24
35:14 reference 20:3 18:12 23:13 50:5,7 51:25 15:3 17:14
24:25 25:10 removal 37:12 32:14 38:7 Santobello 30:5
34:3 removed 3:18 48:17,22 51:12 saying 14:4
29:2,2 regularly 11:2 repeatedly 12:7 reverse 52:7 49:25 51:16
regulate 8:13 replacing 43:25 right 4:11 5:12 Scalia 7:8 8:5
16:2,13 Reports 18:16 16:15,24 18:20 16:23 17:5
33:9,21 24:21 Republic 7:14 28:1,2,11 31:1 40:2,5,9,14
40:16,22 regulates 8:10 9:1,15 34:23 35:25 41:21,24 51:3
40:5 45:3 40:17 42:2 required 47:10 38:19 39:1,21 scenario 46:8
44:2 requires 36:16 48:25 scheme 24:23
40:22 41:1 rescind 13:16 49:21 scope 10:14
41:10 reserve 23:22 19:14 49:3 second 5:12
46:15 related 11:6 respect 12:18 ROBERTS 3:3 Secondly 11:3
35:9 relevant 7:12 response 16:24 26:5 34:12,17 Security 31:4
8:9,11,17 18:2 rest 19:13 35:3 44:9,17 see 21:2 29:11
reliance 5:9 6:5 28:13 32:10 46:10,13 52:8 seeking 24:24
21:12,16,17,20 6:1,21 15:13 Rosenberg send 35:16
29:24 43:14 44:10,12 statutory 22:20 52:1
42:17 16:14 43:8 48:10,15,18,20 stay 11:21 26:9 sweep 10:25
sitting 29:4 standard 49:16 stays 16:11 T 2:1,1
47:22 state 10:18,19 STEPHANOS tailored 11:7,9
5:18 6:5 34:14 35:6 status 34:14 street 50:10 25:1
12:4 42:3 35:23 strongly 48:11 talk 36:4 43:8
22:3,7 SORNA 22:25 statute 7:24 8:12 structured 4:2
50:25
50:1 8:21,24 10:5 subject 17:21 talked 24:16
51:14,15 11:17 12:2 37:11 41:15 talking 22:11,12
47:16 39:20 17:19,20 22:17 subjected 38:3 target 32:24
sort 39:24 23:6 24:12,20 submitted 52:10 47:2
51:16 12:15 13:14,20 26:1 28:8 31:3 submitting 48:8 teach 18:20
33:16 37:17,25 33:15 34:1 subsection 3:10 teaching 18:17
35:10 39:5,11,19,23 substantial 17:7 50:14
special 17:21 41:5,9,12 42:2 suffer 6:25 temporal 43:13
spell 12:13 46:2,19,24 suggest 47:7 term 43:25
44:18
square 46:24 22:13 28:16 suppose 19:15 10:14 13:9
30:1,7 19:19 21:15,16 42:12,19 43:3 35:13 17:2 41:8 47:8
34:3 42:6 21:22,25 23:12 50:11 51:19 Supreme 1:1,13 Thank 23:24
45:13 28:18 29:6,22 statute's 12:10 sure 16:9 19:20 46:10,12,17
47:25 43:3 43:24 44:1 uses 43:9 wants 15:19
26:8 51:22 turn 49:15 50:6 U.S 18:16 27:8
34:22 tradeoff 19:25 turning 49:18 warned 7:3
18:19 13:4 turpitude 26:2 v 1:5 3:4 7:14 38:16
35:4 traditional 38:23 15:22 18:15 warrant 31:22
50:24 51:22 two 11:18 25:17 30:5 33:5,13 warrants 31:22
26:7 42:13 40:25 43:15 41:4 49:10,14 1:19
27:1 travel 3:14 4:22 51:10 49:16,23 wasn't 23:7
4:25 5:23 10:1 twofold 44:11 valid 17:7 26:17 36:7
10:2 15:9 value 47:22 way 3:19 4:10
32:8,20 32:20 33:1,20 U Vartelas 1:3 3:4 16:16 25:25
34:19 37:12,20 uncomfortable 47:9 29:2 31:11
35:12 47:1 16:3,20 Versus 50:7 32:4 37:13
37:3 traveling 4:19 unconstitutio... vested 8:8 18:20 46:24 50:11
12:20 33:24 39:13,15,15,16 19:7 ways 29:23
40:10 49:6 39:18 view 12:19 48:17
treatment 44:2 uncontroversi... 15:23 wedding 16:6
42:10,18 trial 31:15 28:15 viewed 9:4 Wednesday
43:11,23 trials 8:14 underlying 33:14 42:10 1:10
45:11 tried 31:4 30:25 34:13 violate 39:24 weigh 20:24
46:7 trigger 15:18 understand 41:18 we'll 3:3 11:23
51:3 24:13,15 31:24 16:17 25:12,15 violation 8:24 we're 11:14,22
47:1 understands violence 41:14 22:12 26:11,12
16:12 30:24 unfairness 6:19 visit 3:17 4:5,7 50:20
29:2 trip 24:15 25:10 14:25 20:1 27:11 28:4,5,9 who've 21:9
40:19 27:24 34:6 unfounded 29:8,17 wife 17:4
36:5,14,15,18 50:22 visiting 30:15 Witte 12:24
19:21 38:6 44:15 unpack 10:12 want 11:13 30:22 39:2
24:19 truth 29:14 upheld 42:5 13:10 14:5 writ 25:18
27:4 try 34:23 uphill 49:17 16:2,10 26:8 written 16:17
4
4-day 36:5,13,15
20:25
45:2,3,5 5 26:4
46:14
26:4 7
45:2 71 18:15
1:4 3:4
8
18:6 8 45:5
1:14 3:2
9
25:3 922(g) 41:12
42:20
34:4 95 36:10
50:2
52:11
1:10
25:8
26:1
27:5
41:13
45:2
47:24
51:15
1:10
28:18
2:7
2:4
12:9
28:18
