IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS :
COMMISSION, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 10-1293
FOX TELEVISION STATIONS, :
INC., ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, January 10, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:22 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Petitioners.
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents Fox Television Stations, Inc., et al.
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents ABC, Inc., et al.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of Respondents Fox
Television Stations, Inc., et al. 24
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of Respondents ABC, Inc.,
et al. 39
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:22 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 10-1293, Federal Communications
Commission v. Fox Television Stations.
General Verrilli.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
In its previous decision in this case, the
Court observed that when a broadcast licensee takes a
license for the free and exclusive use of a valuable
part of the public domain, it also accepts enforceable
public obligations. One of those enforceable
obligations is the indecency restriction which Congress
has instructed the Federal Communications Commission to
enforce between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
Respondents in this case have for years
benefited enormously from their free and exclusive use
of public spectrum. They argue, however, that neither
Congress nor the commission may as a condition of their
licenses require that they refrain from broadcasting
indecent material when children are most likely to be in
the audience.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, General Verrilli, it
seems to me that this contract notion of yours can only
go so far. I mean, if the idea is just we gave them
something, now they have to do whatever we say, you
wouldn't accept that. So, the question is why is this
condition appropriate when many other conditions would
not be appropriate? I mean, tell me if I'm wrong, if
you would say all conditions are appropriate. But I --
I frankly think you wouldn't.
GENERAL VERRILLI: This condition is
appropriate, Justice Kagan, because it has been a
defining feature of the broadcast medium from its
inception in the 1920s in the Radio Act and has
continued to be a defining feature of this medium
throughout its history. And the argument that my
friends on the other side are making here is that that
norm, that legally enforceable norm which has been
recognized by this Court in Pacifica and has been
applied since the inception of this medium, needs to be
overturned now because circumstances have changed.
And I would point out first, if I may,
something that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's one of their
arguments. I mean, another one is that you haven't
defined it precisely enough, right?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, that's true.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a separate -- really
a separate argument.
GENERAL VERRILLI: That's certainly true,
Justice Scalia, and I will certainly get to vagueness,
if I -- if I may just continue on this line.
The -- their argument is that circumstances
have fundamentally changed. I want to point out at the
outset something I think is significant, which is that
their argument would sweep away indecency restriction
with respect to radio as well as television, and they
would sweep that away in the arguments they are making
today without making any showing that circumstances have
changed at all with respect to the ubiquity of -- or
accessibility of radio.
And I think if one looks at the FCC orders
that this Court cited in its prior decision in this
case, one will see that a lot of the most vile and lewd
material really is in radio. So, I just want to put
that marker down at the beginning here because I do
think it is quite important. No showing has been made
about radio.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I didn't quite understand
that. Today there's a -- there's either a potential or
a fact of violent and objectionable broadcasting in
radio? I didn't quite -- just to understand your point.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. Pacifica itself,
Justice Kennedy, was a case about a radio broadcast.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, I understand that.
Yes.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And the Respondents are
arguing in this case that Pacifica ought to be overruled
because the circumstances that justified its rule no
longer obtain. I want to put a marker in at the outset
here with respect to radio, because I do think it's
quite important, that they haven't made any argument
that those circumstances are any different with respect
to radio. It's just as ubiquitous as it was. There
isn't even any argument that there's blocking technology
available. And I want to make sure, given the kind of
vile material that the record demonstrates has been
transmitted over time on radio, that the Court focuses
on the breadth of the argument that the Respondents are
making here.
Now, with respect to television, I do think
they're making an argument that -- that television
broadcasting is no longer uniquely pervasive in the way
that it was before. They're not making an argument --
but that, if I may, is a very different kind of argument
than one would normally get in support of a -- the
suggestion that we ought to depart from stare decisis.
They're not -- they're not arguing that
broadcast television is any less pervasive than it was.
If anything, it's probably more pervasive now. They're
not arguing that the harms of that pervasiveness no
longer exist. What they're arguing is that there are
other media that present harms as well and that with
respect -- and that because those other media also
present harms, the circumstances require a change in the
rule with respect to broadcasters.
Now, that -- you can I think look at that in
one of two ways. You could say either that's an
argument that it's futile to continue to impose this
restriction on broadcasters. And I think that's what
Fox says at page 33 of its brief.
Two points in response to that. I think a
significant, if not complete, answer was in this Court's
prior decision in this case in which it said that the
maintenance of a safe haven is actually particularly
important in the context of these changes, a broadcast
safe haven. And also I do think that the idea of
futility in that nature is foreign to our First
Amendment jurisprudence.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Verrilli, I took
it from the briefs and what the FCC has been doing that
the major objection is that one cannot tell what's
indecent and what isn't; that it's FCC, the censor,
that's saying "Private Ryan" is okay, "Schindler's List"
is okay, but "NYPD Blue" is not. And I do think that
that is the major objection, that we have a government
agency that is going to make decisions about when nudity
is okay and when it isn't. You can't do it in terms of
time because "New York" -- the "NYPD" was 7 seconds and
another broadcast, "Catch-22," was 40 seconds.
So, it's -- it's the appearance of
arbitrariness about how the FCC is defining indecency in
concrete situations. That I think is the major flaw.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Let me turn to that,
Justice Ginsburg. The -- two points about that: The
first one is that as we read this Court's recent
decision in Humanitarian Law Project, the question on
the Fifth Amendment analysis of whether there is
vagueness and arbitrary enforcement has to be answered
by reference to the specific broadcasts at issue here.
In other words, was there fair notice with respect to
these specific broadcasts?
And I will get to that, but I -- but let me
first go directly to Your Honor's more significant
question. And I think the -- the problem with looking
at the case that way is that the lens is focused too
narrowly in that there, actually, if you -- one
broadens out the lens and looks at the wide range of
decisions that the commission is making about indecency
and then broadens it out even further and looks at the
wide range of broadcasts that occur, actually the number
of broadcasts are -- that have been identified as even
raising a question of arbitrariness or inconsistency is
a -- is really quite a miniscule fraction. It's even
quite a miniscule fraction even with respect to
broadcasts that the commission has adjudicated as
indecent or not indecent.
And, yes, we would concede that there is not
perfect clarity in this rule. It's a context-based
rule. As we read Pacifica, the Court suggested in
Pacifica that a context-based rule may well be what the
Constitution requires here, and that's going to result
in some -- something less than absolute precision. But
the -- of course, the alternative, I would assume from
my friend's perspective, would be worse. The commission
could have a list that said never say the following,
however many words; never show broadcasting between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. -- nudity between the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
That would be clearer, but it would -- but,
in a way, the commission here, I think by following the
context-based approach that I think Pacifica suggested
was required, is being -- I mean, "punished" is too
strong a word, but it's being held against it that it's
trying to make reasonable accommodations for First
Amendment values.
And so, I think when one looks at it both in
terms of where the lenses actually ought to be focused
here and the fact that the -- the alternative of perfect
clarity would reach a less effective accommodation of
First Amendment values, then I do think that the
commission's position is quite -- quite reasonable and
defensible.
JUSTICE BREYER: Could you -- could you
digress for one minute to help me understand the
procedural posture of this case. When it was here last
time, we were dealing with an issue called "fleeting
expletives," and that was Fox. And the Fox case
involved just that. They didn't really, or we didn't,
or the Court didn't, attack the 2001 order which is now
at issue. And then, without it going back to the
commission, the Second Circuit decided it on a ground
that sets aside the 2001 order.
Now, can we here just decide the fleeting
expletive case, because the fleeting expletive case has
to do with one subset of applications of the 2001 order
and has to do with part 2(2) or something. I mean, it
has -- and how you interpret the words "material dwells
on or repeats." Now, that I -- that I understand how to
get at.
The ABC case raises -- doesn't raise
fleeting expletives. It wasn't fleeting. And it raises
the question of the validity of -- under vagueness
grounds, of 2001 industry guidance and how that's been
applied. But the Second Circuit didn't deal with that
case. It sent it back to the commission.
So, has there been a commission decision
recently which has reviewed the basic arguments being
made here about the validity of the 2001 industry
guidance as applied? Has there been such a thing?
Alternatively, has there been an appeals
court holding on the -- or analysis of the ABC case?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I do -- I agree with you,
Justice Breyer, (a) that this is a complex procedural
posture; (b) that the Court would have some discretion
in how it approached and resolved the case.
With respect to the ABC case, as I read the
commission's orders, which are in the appendix to the
petition, it applied the 2001 industry guidance to reach
the conclusion that the ABC broadcast was indecent. And
then that was -- that -- then ABC appealed that to the
Second Circuit --
JUSTICE BREYER: Right.
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- as I understand it,
and that the Second Circuit then found that the -- that
the commission had violated the Constitution in reaching
that result. It first --
JUSTICE BREYER: But they didn't -- they
didn't in that case --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and they sent the ABC
case back. I see your --
GENERAL VERRILLI: They did on -- when it
came back, Your Honor, they then -- they disposed of the
Fox case with a lengthy opinion --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- and then essentially
applied that analysis to the ABC case.
JUSTICE BREYER: I see.
GENERAL VERRILLI: So, I think in
fairness --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. When this ABC
case was argued in front of the commission -- I have
here about 30 briefs at least, maybe 40, and they are
filled with very good arguments. Were those arguments
made to the commission in the context of the ABC case?
Because as it comes up here, we are -- whereas I thought
when we granted cert, quite honestly, that this was Fox
coming back, as I've read the brief it isn't at all.
This is a new case, nothing to do with what we decided
before. This is the case of ABC, period. And it is an
attack on the 2001 guidelines, not fleeting expletives.
And, therefore, I want to know, at least
satisfy myself, that this Fox -- this ABC case has gone
through ordinary procedures and, indeed, these arguments
have all been made in front of the commission and
they've been rejected.
GENERAL VERRILLI: So, Justice Breyer, I'm
not sure that I can vouch for the proposition that the
arguments have all been made in front of the
commission --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not saying every one,
but has the essence of these arguments.
GENERAL VERRILLI: In fairness, I do think
that -- that if one reads the commission's disposition
of the -- the ABC case, it is applying the 2001 guidance
reaching the conclusion that the broadcast was indecent
under the 2001 guidance. ABC paid the fine that it was
assessed and then, as it has -- as it can do, then
invoked the Hobbs Act, went to the court of appeals to
challenge it. And so, I do think -- I do actually think
that the issues have been considered by the agency and
are before the Court.
And I do agree with Your Honor, moving I
think more directly to the vagueness point, that there
really isn't a vagueness issue left with respect to the
fleeting expletives in the -- in the Fox case because
the Court said the last time the case was here that
there is no problem of arbitrary punishment because
there was no forfeiture or any other sanction.
ABC is in a different position because they
were sanctioned. And so, there is an issue with respect
to the question of whether the commission's indecency
standards can constitutionally be applied here and
whether they're too vague. But I do think, and I do --
I would like to spend a minute on that question of
whether there is vagueness as applied to the ABC
broadcast.
Now, the commission's standards in the 2001
guidance say that this is essentially a two-part test.
First is a subject matter question: Is there a
description or depiction of sexual or excretory
activities or organs? And then there's a question of
whether the depiction or description is patently
offensive under community standards for broadcast
informed by three factors: whether the expression is
explicit, whether the broadcast dwells on it, and
whether it's shocking or pandering or titillating.
Now, ABC makes an argument with respect to
this broadcast that the nudity in the "NYPD Blue"
episode is outside of the first subject matter criteria
because it didn't have fair notice that buttocks would
be considered sexual organs for purposes of application
of this -- of this standard.
The commission said -- and this is at page
137a of the appendix to the petition -- that it's
impossible to believe that they didn't think that the
naked display of buttocks would bring them within --
that weren't -- didn't have fair notice that the naked
display of buttocks would bring them within this rule.
I'm not sure anything more needs to be said about that.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, the broader point,
General Verrilli, isn't it, is that no matter -- even if
you're right that there are many non-vague applications
of this commission policy, that there is some amount of
uncertainty and ABC finds itself in that area of
uncertainty --
GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't --
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- because it turns out that
nudity -- that there really -- sometimes it's allowed as
to some body parts, and sometimes it's not allowed; and
the commission hadn't really said anything about it for
50 years; and the length of time doesn't seem to be
what's indicative of anything; the kind of body part
doesn't seem to be, with some limits, what's indicative
of anything, so that ABC just didn't really know.
GENERAL VERRILLI: With respect, Justice
Kagan, I really disagree with that characterization of
the situation.
Moving to the second part of the analysis
here, I think it's important to take a half a step back.
The fact of the matter is -- and I think everybody, all
of us, understand this in our experience -- that nudity
on broadcast television is an exceedingly, exceedingly,
rare thing at any time of the day and certainly between
6:00 a.m. and 10 p.m. It is exceedingly rare, and all
of us from our experience know that. And the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, I'm not so sure
because the examples were given of -- I guess excerpts
from "Private Ryan" and from "Schindler's List" have
been on television.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, that's true, Justice
Ginsburg. But, again, I think that's another issue
about where the lens is focused. There have been
thousands and thousands and thousands of broadcasts, and
the Respondents have identified four in which -- over
25 years, in which any nudity has been present.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They have their own
guidelines that generally prohibit it, don't they?
GENERAL VERRILLI: That's certainty true,
Justice Scalia. And I do think, in Reno, this Court
described the Carlin monologue at issue in Pacifica in
the following way: It said that monologue was readily
identifiable as indecent because it was a dramatic
departure from the customary norms for the broadcast
medium. I think the kind of nudity -- and I think if
one just looks at the video here and sees it, I don't -- I
think it's hard to disagree with the proposition that
that's a dramatic departure from what's the norm for
broadcast television.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If they did an excerpt
from "Hair," could they televise that?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think it would raise
serious questions. I think nudity is going to raise
very serious questions, and I think --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In the -- in the opera,
in "The Makropulos Case," there's a scene where a woman
is seen nude entering a bathtub. And suppose that were
shown, that scene from the opera.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I don't -- I think,
Justice Ginsburg, that in a context-based approach,
there's not going to be perfect clarity. We recognize
that. But I do think with respect to this broadcast --
and that's the question before the Court, whether Fox --
excuse me -- whether ABC was on fair notice of whether
this broadcast would bring them within the rule.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what you're saying
is, is that there is a public value in having a
particular segment of the media with different standards
than other segments. And forget radio. Let's just talk
about television. But -- you know, in the briefs, it
says how much -- how many cable stations there are, and
you, what do you call it, surf the -- you go through all
the channels. And it's not apparent to many people
which are broadcast and which are not.
But you're saying that there's still a
value, an importance, in having a higher standard or
different standard for broadcast media on the
television. Why is that, when there are so many other
options, and -- and when it's not apparent to many
viewers which of the two they're watching? Just because
it's an important symbol for our society that we aspire
to a culture that's not vulgar in -- in a very small
segment?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Two points in response to
that, Justice Kennedy: First, I think the Court's
previous decision in this case goes a long way to
providing an answer, that yes, it does make a difference
to preserve a safe haven where, if parents want to put
their kids down in front of the television set at
8:00 p.m., they know that there's a segment of what's
available that -- where they're not going to have to
worry about whether the kids are going to get bombarded
with curse words or nudity. And then the reason --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But this goes --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then there's -- and
then there's -- and then there's the chip that's
available.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And, of course, you ask
your 15-year-old, or your 10-year-old, how to turn off
the chip. They're the only ones that know how to do it.
(Laughter. )
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, and that -- that
does point out the problem with the -- with the V-chip.
Of course, the V-chip is not new. It's been around for
more than a decade, and the -- the broadcasters have
tried to encourage uptake. The government has tried to
encourage uptake. It hasn't taken.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But is your point is -- is
that the chip technology works better if you have this
differentiation between broadcast and cable media?
GENERAL VERRILLI: No, a different point. I
think the -- I want to get to what I think is the
fundamental point here, that whatever may be the case
with respect to the ability of a viewer to differentiate
whether something is a broadcast channel or a cable
channel, the reality is that broadcasters are in a
different position by virtue of the fact that they have
a license from the government that comes with this
enforceable public obligation that allows the government
to create this safe haven, and that puts them in a
different position.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in a way, that's
circular. That's what we're here to argue about. I'm
asking --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- is there a functional,
a pragmatic, a practical difference between the two?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Is there -- well, I'm
sorry, Justice Kennedy. The V-chip works with both
broadcast and -- and cable transmissions, to the extent
it works. The -- what the briefs have pointed out --
and I would suggest in particular that the Court look at
the brief from the American Academy of Pediatrics, which
does a very thorough job in explaining the many ways in
which the V-chip has proven to be a deficient
technology. A lot of it goes to the inaccuracy and
incompleteness of the codes, the labels that -- that the
programmers put in to begin with, which have to be there
in order for the V-chip to decide what gets through and
what doesn't.
And I would point out in this very case, for
example, with respect to the -- for example, the 2003
Billboard Music Award broadcast with the Paris Hilton-
Nicole Richie back and forth, one would never have known
from the code affixed for the V-chip purpose that that
broadcast was going to have those kinds of words in
them.
JUSTICE ALITO: What will happen when --
when we get to the point where -- when there are only a
handful of people in the entire country who are still
receiving television programs via the airwaves?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I do think we're
not there now, as we've said in our brief, but --
JUSTICE KAGAN: We're almost there, right --
10 percent?
GENERAL VERRILLI: And I do -- but that I
think -- that really makes what I think is one of the
most fundamental points here, is that the broadcasters
want to have it both ways, right? They -- the spectrum
licenses they have are worth billions and billions of
dollars. Spectrum is staggeringly, staggeringly scarce,
and -- and they're sitting on an enormously valuable
resource which they got for free, and then they have a
statutory benefit of must-carry, which gets them on
cable systems automatically, and a further statutory
benefit of preferred channel placement on -- on those --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sign -- sign me up as
supporting Justice Kennedy's notion that this has a
symbolic value, just as we require a certain modicum of
dress for the people that attend this Court and the
people that attend other Federal courts. It's a
symbolic matter.
And if this is ­ if these are public airwaves,
the government is entitled to insist upon a certain
modicum of decency. I'm not sure it even has to relate
to juveniles, to tell you the truth.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And -- and we certainly
agree, Justice Scalia, with the point that was made in
the Court's previous decision in this case, that -- for
example, the words that are in the Fox broadcasts --
teachers don't use those words with students. You don't
hear those words in churches or synagogues. There are
many, many contexts --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you do more and more.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You hear them on the
street.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You do more and more, since
there's so --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- since there's so much of
it on.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And I do think, if I
may --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- you are saying
that the standard can still be symbolic, as
Justice Scalia said. We want the King's English when --
the very children we're talking about, when they go on
the street, when they -- their big brother says
something to them, it is -- the words that were -- the
expletives are in common parlance today. I mean, it
is -- I think that children -- that children are not
going to be shocked by them the way they might have been
a generation ago.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Justice Ginsburg, I think
something this Court said in its prior decision is -- is
right on the mark with respect to this issue, which is
it's a question of whether it's portrayed as
appropriate. And when it is -- it's one thing when your
13-year-old brother is saying it to you or some bully in
the schoolyard is saying it to you.
It's another when it's presented to you in
this medium as an appropriate means of communication.
That's true with respect to words, and it's also true
with respect to nudity.
If I might reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Phillips.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS FOX TELEVISION
STATIONS, INC., ET AL.
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
I'd like to respond initially to some of
General Verrilli's general observations. First of all,
he talks about indecency as somehow serving as the core
of the overall understanding of the regulatory deal that
was made here. And it's difficult for me to accept that
notion when there was no effort whatsoever to enforce
the -- the standard of indecency between 1927 and 1975.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's because
broadcasts didn't commonly have this sort of -- these
sorts of words or these sorts of images.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, maybe, maybe not. We
don't know. All we know is that for a period of
50 years, nothing happened. So, the idea --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, no, we know.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, that's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, we can -- it
was not the case from 1927 till whenever you -- what,
1970-something -- that nudity commonly appeared on
broadcast television or the various words we're dealing
with here commonly appeared. So, it seems a bit much to
say, well, they didn't bring any cases for that period.
There were no cases to be brought.
MR. PHILLIPS: The only point I'm trying to
make, Chief Justice, is that if you're talking about
this as sort of the core understanding between the
parties, it simply played a fairly minor role in the
process through the bulk of the regulatory period we're
talking about. And, indeed, if you put it in context,
this is a statute that prohibits obscenity, profanity,
and indecency. And while the FCC spent a lot of time
writing about profanity as somehow being offended by
what went on in this omnibus order, the commission has
completely abandoned that under these circumstances.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But how about this,
Mr. Phillips: Look, you've been given a privilege, and
that gives the government at least somewhat more leeway
to impose obligations on you. Not -- can't impose
everything, but at least has a bit more leeway. And
here we've had something that's very historically
grounded. We've had this for decades and decades that
the broadcast is -- the broadcaster is treated
differently.
It seems to work, and it -- it seems to be a
good thing that there is some safe haven, even if the
old technological bases for that safe haven don't exist
anymore.
So, why not just keep it as it is?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, first of all, Justice
Kagan, it was important to catch the answer to your
question when you asked it of General Verrilli, which
was you're not saying that we lose all of our First
Amendment rights. So, clearly we retain our First
Amendment rights.
And, under those circumstances, it seems to
me you've got this two ways: First of all, the idea
that it, quote, "worked" -- it worked perfectly fine
from all the way up until 2001, even I would say until
2004, when the commission wildly changed its approach.
And it's only become dysfunctional since 2004 and, as we
sit here today, literally facing thousands and thousands
of ginned-up computer-generated complaints that are
holding up literally hundreds of TV license renewals, so
that the whole system has come to a screeching halt
because of the difficulty of trying to resolve these
issues.
So, to say that the system is working well,
it seems to me, at least from the broadcasters'
perspective, is to say -- is to suggest that's just not
true.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you want us to
overrule a decision of this Court, Pacifica.
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: Now, as to radio, what --
what has changed?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I'm not here --
JUSTICE ALITO: To justify that? Well,
could we hold that the policy is -- is invalid as to --
on First Amendment grounds as to TV but not as to radio?
MR. PHILLIPS: Absolutely, Your Honor,
because there are fundamentally different media, and
there are different protections and the circumstances
are different, and the Court has recognized that media
have to be evaluated individually. But what has
happened over the 30 years with respect to the broadcast
side of television is a very fundamental change. Cable
is now equally pervasive. Cable is now equally
accessible to TV, satellite equally accessible to TV.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that -- but that
-- that cuts both ways. People who want to watch
broadcasts where these words or expose their children to
broadcasts where these words are used, where there is
nudity, there are 800 channels where they can go for
that. All we're asking for, what the Government is
asking for, is a few channels where you can say I'm not
going to -- they're not going to hear the "S" word, the
"F" word. They're not going to see nudity. So, the
proliferation of other media, it seems to me, cuts
against you.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it seems to me there
are two answers to that: First of all, the notion that
one medium operates in a certain way in the exercise of
its First Amendment rights can be used as an -- as an
explanation for taking away or for -- for restricting
the First Amendment rights of another medium is flatly
inconsistent with what this Court has said across the
board in the First Amendment context. You don't balance
off one speaker against another and give one favored
status and give another unfavored status.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's your
argument there, is that it's not a legitimate objective
to have a safe harbor.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, you can get a safe
harbor, and, indeed, there are a number of safe harbors
that are out there. First of all, there are a ton of
cable networks that are aimed exclusively at children.
And, you know, there are five, six, eight stations that,
I guarantee you, you will see -- where you'll see none
of that language.
And, second of all, it's always available to
the United States Government to decide to hold this --
to create its own license for the United States to be a
broadcaster and to ensure that the broadcasts of the
United States public network exclude anything they want
to exclude because that's government speech and is in no
way restricted by what the First Amendment would
provide.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if we rule in your
favor on the First Amendment grounds, what will people
who watch Fox be seeing between 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m.? Are they going to be seeing a lot of people
parading around in the nude and a stream of expletives?
MR. PHILLIPS: Not under the guidelines that
the -- that Fox has used consistently from 10:00 p.m.
until 6:00 a.m. and candidly that all of the other
networks follow.
The truth is the advertisers and the
audiences that have to be responded to by the networks
insist on some measure of restraint, not a measure
of restraint --
JUSTICE ALITO: So, what will you put on
that you are not able to put on now?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean, some of the
things that we could at least wonder about is "Saving
Private Ryan," "Catch-22," perhaps the beginning of the
Olympics. There's a whole slew of questions. I mean,
the -- and if you go beyond that and you think about
what speech has been chilled, the Tillman memorial
service is not broadcast because of fear of what's going
to be said there. Football games, basketball games,
local news events --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, suppose we
take that particular line. You didn't argue -- I mean,
Fox didn't argue -- Fox was worried about the fleeting
expletive policy in Golden Globe. I doubt in Golden
Globe, when it was before the commission, they raised
all these vagueness challenges to the whole 2001 policy.
So, why -- here you've taken a much broader
stance now, though you didn't before. I mean, do you
want to say anything about what I think is the basic
issue that Fox raises? We don't have to overrule
Pacifica. What Fox was penalized for was two women on
television who basically used a fleeting expletive which
seems to be naturally part of their vocabulary.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and we're worried
about small stations that cannot censor people because
they don't know what they're going to say. All right.
That was what we wrote, I think in -- in my opinion,
anyway. We were worried about that.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Are you abandoning that
argument?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, no, no, of course not.
But you have to realize, Justice Breyer, that what -- I
mean, the Second Circuit, because it didn't have
available to it sort of what to do precisely with
Pacifica, tended to focus on the question of vagueness.
Vagueness was certainly an argument that we made there,
but --
JUSTICE BREYER: It's an ABC argument
primarily, but you made that argument in the Second
Circuit. What I'm fishing with -- you don't have to
comment more, but -- is, do we have to reach that
argument? Except it's --
MR. PHILLIPS: No --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- very, very broad --
MR. PHILLIPS: No. It's absolutely clear to
me that if this Court wants to say no more than we
decided the outer limits of the First Amendment in
Pacifica --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. PHILLIPS: -- and it goes to the verbal
shock treatment that Justice Powell described in a
separate opinion, and this doesn't come anywhere near
that, and, therefore, this is beyond what the First
Amendment provides, the Court could clearly hold that
way and rule --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's not really
clear. I mean, if you want us to be really clear, you
should ask the FCC to simply outlaw any fleeting use of
the "F" word, the "S" word, any -- any shots of any
nudity in any movie, buttocks included. That would give
you all of the notice that you need. Why don't you
propose that? Boy, that's certain as can be.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, our basic argument
would then -- I mean, obviously what you'd be taking
away is the vagueness argument, but that would just
bring you back then, Justice Scalia, to the core
Pacifica argument and the question of how far can the --
how is it permissible to allow the FCC to regulate the
broadcast networks on standards that are fundamentally
different than cable, the Internet, and every other
medium that exists? I -- you know, I'd be perfectly
happy if they want to try to adopt those kinds of
standards and subject them to the strict scrutiny
requirements that this Court applies to every other
medium, because the truth is those requirements will not
withstand scrutiny under those particular standards.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, broadcast TV is -- is
living on borrowed time. It's not going to be long
before it goes the way of vinyl records and eight-track
tapes.
MR. PHILLIPS: I hope that -- I'm sure my
client is not thrilled to hear you say that.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, no, I'm sure.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm sure your clients will
continue to make billions of dollars on their programs
which are -- which are transmitted by cable and by
satellite and by Internet. But the -- to the extent
that they're making money from people who are using
rabbit ears, that's -- that's disappearing. Do you
disagree with that?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, I -- it would be -- you
know, obviously not, because that's why we're not
uniquely accessible or uniquely pervasive.
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes. Well, so, why not just
let this die a natural death? Why do you want us to
intervene --
(Laughter.)
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, because -- well, we
didn't ask you to intervene, actually. The FCC is the
one who asked you to intervene.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you're asking us to
intervene by overruling a prior precedent.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I'd be -- well, I think
once the issue is before the Court, it ought to decide
the First Amendment question that's presented here, and
the First Amendment question says what can the FCC do
under these circumstances?
It seems to me there are probably four
different ways you can go about it, all of which says
what the FCC did here is wrong. You can say Pacifica is
an exceedingly narrow decision. It goes to the outer
limits of what the First Amendment allows the FCC to do.
What they've done here is unconstitutional --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But isn't the --
MR. PHILLIPS: -- or they shouldn't do that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- inevitable consequence,
or this precise consequence that you're arguing for on
this fleeting expletive portion of this case, that every
celebrity or want-to-be celebrity that's interviewed can
feel free to use one of these -- one of these words? We
will just expect it as a matter of course, if you
prevail. Isn't that the necessary consequence of this
case?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, that they will use it,
perhaps. But that doesn't mean that we wouldn't
continue to try to bleep it out as best we could because
we have our own standards.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I mean, even you did
in this one. You said now remember you're on
television, which was just, you know, giving an added
incentive for these vulgar comments.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, that was clearly not --
I mean, from Fox's perspective, it was not scripted to
set it up that way. But, remember, the first -- the
first expletive --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But, I mean, isn't it
inevitable that this will happen?
MR. PHILLIPS: It is inevitable that --
well, I think it's inevitable regardless that people are
going to continue to use language that they would
naturally use. So, yes, I do think you can expect on
cable and any other forum in which you have humans
speaking that this kind of language will expand.
I don't know that it -- and it will probably
be the case that in some context, particularly live
television, which is really what's placed in jeopardy by
this, that you will have less live television because
your concern is people will continue to use this
language.
On a lot of awards shows, I think it's
candidly easier to go ahead and -- and bleep this. It's
not always -- it's not foolproof, but the stations are
committed to doing that. They've all got their
standards. And that was applied in this particular
case. So, while there may be some marginal increase in
it, if you compare it to the use of this language beyond
the broadcast context, it's the -- it is just the
narrowest of slivers of increase, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think that there is a
difference between what a person sees on broadcast
channels and what a person sees on basic cable? Basic
cable now?
MR. PHILLIPS: You mean, can the average
child understand the difference between the two?
JUSTICE KAGAN: In -- no, in content. Is
there a difference in content? Because basic cable
channels are not restricted by these rules, and I'm just
wondering whether you think that there's a difference.
Because I -- it has not been apparent to me that there
is.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean, in some -- I
think it probably depends on which -- which channels you
-- you look at, and even in the basic channels, but the
-- there's the cartoon that's significantly more adult
that's on the cable channels than the cartoons that you
might see on the -- on the Fox Television.
So, yes, I think there's probably a certain
edgierness to it, but that said, it's still clear
that -- that as long as you have advertising revenue
that drives a significant amount of the decisionmaking
here, you're going to have the kind of self-restraint
that frankly ought to cause the Court to say we should
no -- we no longer need to treat the broadcast medium as
the weak sister of -- of the media.
And, therefore, they ought to have the same
protections that everybody else has, and that they will
engage in the same restrained approach to these kinds of
issues that newspapers do. I mean, the Post doesn't run
the language of the case that's -- that's being argued
before it. Cable does. All of those media do. Because
there are natural restraints. You don't need the
Federal Communications Commission any longer to ensure
under these circumstances.
If there are --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What you acknowledge to be
the vulgarity of cable suggests otherwise, doesn't it?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I'm not suggesting that
there's -- there's some kind of wildly different
approach. All I'm suggesting is that there -- that, in
general, most people who -- who rely upon advertising
and have to play to a particular audience in order to
make their money is going to -- is going to obviously be
restrained.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that depends
what your audience --
MR. PHILLIPS: At a minimum, the
broadcasters will be.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It depends what
audience you're -- you're trying to get and the
demographic. If you're trying to get an audience that
is older, maybe you will decide this is what is going to
attract them. They don't want sanitized language. They
want to hear the -- the -- all those other words. If
your target is a much younger audience, maybe that will
happen. But the idea that you're -- the problem is
going to go away because you're going to be good as you
can be, that seems an odd way to analyze First Amendment
problems.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, no, because I think it ought to
go -- it ought to be analyzed the exact opposite, which
is that -- that the obligation, the burden, rests on the
Federal Communications Commission and Congress to show
that there is a real problem that needs to be solved and
that this is narrowly tailored to achieve that.
Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Phillips.
Mr. Waxman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS ABC, INC., ET AL.
MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
When the issue is the content-based
regulation of speech, it is the government, not the
speaker, that must steer, quote, "far wide of the
prohibited zone." That foundational principle is
nowhere in evidence in the FCC's current enforcement
regime, which not only intrudes into the prohibited zone
but also enforces the indecency ban in a starkly
inconsistent manner.
A regime in which government officials
decide years after the fact that 7 seconds of rear
nudity in this particular episode of "NYPD Blue" is
indecent, but 40 seconds of nudity including full
frontal nudity in "Catch-22" is not; that expletives in
a documentary about blues musicians is indecent, but
even more of those expletives in a fictional movie about
World War II is not, is constitutionally intolerable.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: People understand --
what you're -- have demonstrated, I think, is that the
context matters. People understand that, including
children. When they hear a bad word when someone hits
their thumb with a hammer, they understand that's
different than having an adult stand in normal
conversation and use the words. And it seems to me that
your position is saying that the government cannot
regulate with an understanding of what takes place in
the real world.
The government's effort is to try to
understand the context. That's why you get a different
rule in "Saving Private Ryan" than you get with Paris
Hilton and Nicole Richie. And what your argument seems
to be is they can't take context into account.
MR. WAXMAN: On -- quite the contrary. This
Court made clear, in particularly Justice Powell's
concurrence in Pacifica, that context is all-important.
And just look at this case. Despite -- and this goes
directly to some of these questions about nudity.
Despite decades of denying complaints about televised
nudity, the commission chose this case for the first
time to sanction nudity on television in a serious drama
that had been on for 10 years, that had featured over
the --
JUSTICE BREYER: This wasn't -- I mean, I --
don't know about this instance. It's called "Nude
Awakening." It's about the sexual awakening of a child.
You ran it, your client, after 10 o'clock on both
coasts, and they choose to run it at 9 o'clock for some
unknown reason in the Midwest. Maybe they thought -- I
don't know, whatever. But the --
(Laughter.)
MR. WAXMAN: It's not --
JUSTICE BREYER: But -- all right. So, my
point is what the FCC terribly told you to do was run it
1 hour later in the Midwest, just as you did on the
coast.
MR. WAXMAN: Just --
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and why is that
not -- I'm not saying -- taking this point of view, but
I'm saying why isn't that just time, manner, and
circumstance that puts you to very little trouble and
allows everybody to see it and, therefore, is
constitutional?
MR. WAXMAN: The -- this is not some sort of
obscure, unknown reason. This show was run across the
country in the last hour of prime time, which happens to
be from 9:00 to 10:00 p.m. in the Midwest and Mountain
Time zones.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because you wanted to make
more money from it, I understand that. And maybe people
would have been a little bit inconvenienced, but the
inconvenience -- they made a judgment that looking at
this show is not like "Private Ryan." It's about sexual
awakening. They are showing a part of a nude woman.
The viewer is supposed to put himself in the position of
the boy who's seeing her, and the whole thing was
titillating.
Now, they might be wrong. There are two
sides to that argument. And so, I guess what you're
arguing is -- if I were to say, is that a reasonable
view? I guess I'd have to say it. But you have to
say much -- you're telling me I have to say much more
than that.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, number -- yes. Number
one, it is not a reasonable view for reasons that I'll
explain. It was not sexual awakening. This was the
portrayal in the context of a story line about the --
the difficulties and embarrassments of blended families.
This was an exploration of one of the things that
happens, which is a little boy stumbles in and watches a
woman in the quotidian activity of preparing her morning
shower.
In any event, the commission for years had
been adjudicating complaints about nudity, and I -- I --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
MR. WAXMAN: It is simply untrue -- it is
simply untrue that this had never occurred before.
"NYPD Blue" itself was in its 10th season. The very
first episode, which caused a lot of media attention,
included a nude scene of love making. It was the
subject of any number of complaints.
JUSTICE BREYER: I see where you're going --
the question.
MR. WAXMAN: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: Which -- you haven't seen
where I'm going. I wanted you to say just exactly what
you said, and you did, which I thank you.
MR. WAXMAN: You're welcome.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and my question,
which I've been trying to get so you'd see very
precisely what it is, is why don't I just say, if you're
right, just what you said? And say this is an instance,
case by case, in which, for the reasons, then I quote
you, that the First Amendment forbids the application of
the guideline to this case. In other words, what I'm
driving at is the basic thing that's worrying me here:
Does this case in front of us really call for the
earthshaking decision that you all have argued for in
the -- in the briefs?
And that's what I'm trying to figure out,
and that's why I am particularly worried about whether
or not this whole big argument here was presented to the
FCC about whether we have to reach that far. Now do you
see where I was trying to get?
MR. WAXMAN: I think so.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
MR. WAXMAN: And if not, I -- I hope you'll
tell me. First of all, the -- the -- both First
Amendment and Fifth Amendment issues were fully argued
in front of the commission, and the commission addressed
them in its decision in the ABC case.
We, of course, didn't ask the -- suggest
to the commission that it should no longer apply
Pacifica because the factual predicates for more relaxed
scrutiny didn't apply, as we didn't in the Second
Circuit, because only this Court can reconsider the
application of that standard. So, that's an argument
we're making here.
That argument is not necessary to resolving
this case, either on First or Fifth Amendment grounds.
This broadcast -- and particularly in light of the
ubiquitous V-chip, this broadcast is not actionably
indecent under Pacifica, number one. With respect to
notice or the vagueness of the application to this show,
clearly this was a shot out of the blue.
The commission cannot identify -- I
challenge the commission to identify a single decision
of the commission issued before this was broadcast in
2003 in which it had sanctioned any display of nudity,
and I'm going all the way back to 1978.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: By "sanctioned," you mean
punished as -- as opposed to "blessed" sanctioned?
MR. WAXMAN: Yes, yes, yes. Yes, sanctioned
in the "ouch" sense.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: How many displays -- how
many displays of nudity were there that -- that went
unsanctioned?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, for -- I don't -- I can't
tell you, but I can tell you based on --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, well, I mean, if there
are very few, it's not a very powerful argument.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, I -- I think it's a
powerful argument. Let me explain the ones that I know
of. 1978, the commission's decision in WGBH, which
complained about scenes of explicit nudity in "Monty
Python's Flying Circus": Denied. "Catch-22,"
40 seconds of nudity, including 10 seconds of full
frontal female nudity: Denied.
The four or five decisions that we -- that
we discuss on page 18 of our brief and that are appended
to the merits brief of the ABC affiliates. I can't
remember whether it's 12 or 16, but more than a dozen
episodes of "NYPD Blue" itself that included displays,
graphic displays, of nudity during the prior nine
seasons -- complained about and not adjudicated.
That is the backdrop against which the --
JUSTICE BREYER: My law clerk found 17.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's what you
found -- that's what you've got over --
JUSTICE BREYER: My law clerk found --
sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's what you've
got over 85 years.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, first of all, we don't
have television broadcasts over 85 years, and since
there were no reported decisions of any indecency
enforcement until Pacifica, I think it's only fair, as
you pointed out yourself, to look at what the commission
has been addressing.
They're right now -- I mean, you know, I've
cited the ones that are the subject of commission
decisions. I haven't cited the -- I haven't attempted
to hypothesize about all the other instances, but let's
just look at what's at stake here because the issue,
Justice Breyer, is not just notice to ABC in this case.
The question is whether the standards -- the
commission's standards as it's currently applying them
are so vague and capacious that they not only permit
arbitrary action, but they are engaging in arbitrary
action.
Right now, as -- as Mr. Phillips suggested,
the commission has pending before it, which it has not
denied for years, complaints about the opening episode
of the last Olympics, which included a -- a statue very
much like some of the statues that are here in this
courtroom, that had bare breasts and buttocks. It -- it
has refused to say that "Catch 22" -- its "Catch" ­ right
over here, Justice Scalia.
(Laughter.)
MR. WAXMAN: Well, there's a bare buttock
there, and there's a bare buttock here. And there may
be more that I hadn't seen. But, frankly, I had never
focused on it before. But the point --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Me neither.
(Laughter.)
MR. WAXMAN: Could -- could ABC or anybody
else rebroadcast the "Roots" series? Could it
rebroadcast "Catch-22," which the commission is now here
saying, oh, no, no, no, that was just our staff; that
wasn't us. In the "Saving Private Ryan" context, where
the commission did say as a commission, not actionably
indecent.
JUSTICE BREYER: But your only conclusion
from that is that they can't have any rule.
MR. WAXMAN: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: That their -- what is -- I
looked through the briefs; I don't see what you're --
tell me where in these briefs do you suggest what the
rule ought to be.
MR. WAXMAN: In our brief --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. All right.
MR. WAXMAN: -- we don't suggest what the
rule ought --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. WAXMAN: -- ought to be, because (a)
it's not our burden; (b) it's not yours; and (c) there
are any number of options.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, we -- well, we have
to anticipate what the natural results or consequences
of our decision will be.
MR. WAXMAN: Sure.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: As I understand it, the
same rules that we apply to obscenity for printed
material, under your view, would apply to television.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, those rules certainly
would apply. And before I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In other words, if it's --
if it's not obscene, you can publish it. Period.
MR. WAXMAN: No, no, no, no, no. I'm not
suggesting that the indecency proscription in the
statute cannot be applied in a constitutional way. I
can give you four different --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I thought that was
the whole gravamen of your argument.
MR. WAXMAN: No. Our -- our arbitrariness
argument is that we now have a standard that employs
nonexclusive factors that use capacious, vague words
that can be balanced any way the commission wants to,
without explanation for what all the factors are.
JUSTICE ALITO: But isn't that inherent in
the context-based approach? Unless you have an approach
that says there are certain body parts you can never
show, then aren't you going to get into -- isn't someone
going to be able to come up and say you had this
broadcast and you said that's okay; and this one, you
said is not okay?
MR. WAXMAN: It certainly is not. And I can
offer the Court or perhaps the commission four
approaches it could take to reduce the astonishing
vagueness of the current --
JUSTICE BREYER: Where are they in the
briefs? Can you just cite the pages where I will find
the alternatives to the present system that don't jump
obscenity alone?
MR. WAXMAN: I don't know the pages. Let me
just -- I can't remember the pages. Let me just outline
what I think -- four different things that could
ameliorate the vagueness of the current regime.
First of all, the FCC could revert back to
it's, quote, "emphatically narrow enforcement regime,"
which acknowledged, one, that it had to defer to
reasonable judgments of the broadcasters, and not
exercise the -- an editorial eye looking at camera
angles, whether something was or wasn't necessary to the
message. Number two --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I -- I'm going to
let you get all four out. But on that, the reasonable
deference to the broadcasters, your policy was not to
allow people in the situation of Paris Hilton and Nicole
Richie to use those words.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, if they deferred
to your reasonable judgment, your friend's reasonable
judgment, they would sanction those.
MR. WAXMAN: I'm not owning Nicole Richie,
and I think the best answer to the Nicole Richie point
is that there is a scienter requirement in the statute
that, you know, would preclude the application to a
good-faith effort. But let me just --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Go on to
number two.
MR. WAXMAN: I'll just go back. Well, no --
there are three parts to number one.
(Laughter.)
MR. WAXMAN: I'm not -- I'm not being --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your time's -- I
think you are.
Your time is about to expire. If you want
to get your four points out, you'd better move.
MR. WAXMAN: Okay. The first one is to
revert back to the prior enforcement regime that existed
before 2004, which deferred to reasonable judgments, was
restricted to material that is not momentary exposure
but is dwelled upon, and that, as Pacifica explained,
was egregious material akin to depictions of erotic
activity.
The second thing they could do is make this
three-factor test -- or however many factors it is -- a
test, not just a nonexclusive list of an infinite number
of factors that could or couldn't be balanced in any way
the commission wants to.
Even if it wants to leave it as factors --
and this is number three -- it could at least identify
what they are and apply them consistency -- consistently
through adjudication that explains why one over-balances
the other, which it certainly did not do in this case.
And it also could clean up the actual form
of the words that it uses, referring, for example, to
sexually explicit or excretory activity.
Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General Verrilli, you have 4 minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice.
First with respect to the notion of
self-restraint on the part of broadcasters, I think a
little history is in order here. The commission started
with the rule that came out of Pacifica. What it faced
in the 1980s, with that being the outer bound of the
commission's authority, was the explosion of the shock
jock phenomenon, Howard Stern and Bubba the Love Sponge
and the rest of it, which didn't use any of the seven
words in the Carlin monologue, but which was highly vile
and lewd, and it required the commission to make a
judgment. Now, that was all advertising-sponsored
broadcast. And so, I do think the risk of a race to the
bottom is real --
JUSTICE KAGAN: General --
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- and this history is
showing it.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I think that the -- that the
networks really are saying, well, even -- even if some
regulation is permissible, the kind of regulation that
the FCC has done here is regulation that gives it
complete discretion as to what kind of speech to go
after and what not to go after; that it has not tied
itself in any way to any kinds of standards. And it's,
you know, evident in the notion that this -- the way
that this policy seems to work, it's like nobody can use
dirty words or nudity except for Steven Spielberg --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- and that there's a lot of
room here for FCC enforcement on the basis of what
speech they think is kind of nice and proper and good.
And that that's a serious First Amendment issue.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I -- well, I disagree.
First, that's the lens problem again. We are talking
about a tiny, tiny number of the broadcasts that occur
in a month, much less a year, much less a decade. So,
the idea that there's a significant First Amendment
problem that encompasses a wide variety of broadcast
expression I just don't think comports with the facts.
Second, I do think if one looks at the
corpus of decisions that the commission has made about
what's indecent and what isn't, I think one can see with
respect to the large majority of them, the vast majority
of them, that it's clear which side of the line
something fell on. Yes, there isn't perfect clarity.
There are going to be some hard cases. But they really
have identified what is, in the great scheme of things,
a trivial number of hard cases.
I don't think one can say that this is a
situation like Reno in which there's effectively no
standard at all. In Reno, this Court distinguished the
Pacifica situation eight ways to Sunday, and I think
we've identified them in our brief and those are valid.
I do think there's a significant problem
with thinking about Pacifica as the outer bound of the
commission's authority under the First Amendment. Of course --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even though the Justices
involved said this is a narrow decision, both Justice
Stevens and Justice Powell.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, and, Justice
Ginsburg, that's true, and the principles the commission
continues to apply are narrow principles. This is
not -- this is not something that covers a vast array of
speech on broadcast. It's a tiny fraction. And so --
and I do think if you're talking about Pacifica as the
outer bound, the consequences are the shock jocks are
fine; the Super Bowl half-time episode with Janet
Jackson is fine.
You can have as many of these 7-second
episodes of "NYPD Blue" as you want. That's all fine.
In fact, anything that's -- anything that isn't at
that extreme level is fine.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And on the other side,
you'd better be careful about calling certain people,
certain artists to be interviewed because, even though
it's unscripted, there's always a risk they're going to
say something they shouldn't say.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But I -- a couple answers
there. One is the delaying bleeping technology, Justice
Ginsburg, and the other one is that there is a scienter
requirement under the commission's enforcement authority
here. And so, in that situation, it seems highly
unlikely you would have the requisite scienter that
could lead to a forfeiture.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe the third is you
shouldn't interview these people.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Let me spend, if I could,
a minute on the "NYPD Blue" broadcast. The -- ABC
hinges a lot on the notion, Justice Breyer, that this is
a non-sexualized episode. I mean, I guess one could
make up one's own mind looking at the video. The
commission decided that that was -- it was essentially
voyeurism. The --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish your
sentence, please.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you. The little
boy walks into the room at the very end of that -- of
that segment of nudity, and I do think that fully
vindicates the commission's judgment with respect to the
nature of that broadcast.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:23 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
addressed 44:18 50:12 51:12 45:25 46:2
adjudicated 50:17 10:25 15:18 arguments 4:24
adjudicating 7:23 8:17 10:5 11:9,14,23 12:24,24 13:9
12:10,17 43:6 10:10 26:16,17 12:17 14:13,16 13:14,17
13:5 adjudication 27:17 28:16,18 36:11 49:15 array 55:13
52:14 28:20 29:14,17 applies 33:5 artists 56:1
15:3 adopt 33:3 32:3,10 34:12 apply 44:21,23 aside 10:22
16:5 adult 37:6 40:11 34:13,19 38:24 49:7,8,10 asked 26:14
31:19 advertisers 44:2,17,17 52:13 55:12 34:7
44:19 29:25 45:3 54:7,12 applying 13:20 asking 20:16
47:9 advertising 55:6 47:11 28:7,8 34:8
56:14 37:11 38:7 American 20:25 approach 10:1 aspire 18:21
57:7 affixed 21:12 11:16 12:17 approached attack 10:19
agree 11:17 14:3 analyzed 39:2 appropriate 4:6 attend 22:12,13
22:15 answered 8:18 arbitrary 8:18 38:21
al 1:4,8,21,23 56:4 area 15:20 authority 53:7
39:12 anybody 48:5 20:15 30:16,17 automatically
27:11,12,15 anyway 31:8 37:21 44:6,17 available 6:15
allow 32:24 51:3 appeals 11:15 argument 1:14 awakening 41:8
15:25 appearance 3:7 4:15 5:3,7 Award 21:10
40:23 appeared 25:7,9 24:10 28:24 29:18,23
appendix 11:22 31:23 32:19,21 B
Alternatively 15:10 32:23 39:11 b 1:17 2:3,14 3:7
48:25 bleep 35:8 36:8 broad 31:25 47:25 54:21,23
bleeping 56:5 broadcast 3:12 buttocks 15:6,12 catch 26:13
12:11,13 blessed 45:15 8:9 11:24 47:20 Catch-22 8:9
16:10 blocking 6:14 13:21 14:17,24 30:8 40:2 46:5
32:22 blue 8:4 15:4 15:1,4 16:13 C 48:7
50:18 39:25 43:10 17:9,14 18:2,5 c 2:1 3:1 48:25 cause 37:14
45:8 46:12 18:14,17 20:2 cable 18:11 20:2 caused 43:11
body 15:25 16:3 30:12 32:25 36:18,19,23 certain 22:11,16
bombarded 37:15 45:4,5 call 18:12 44:5 37:9 50:1
bottom 53:14 55:14 56:14 calling 55:24 16:14 22:19
32:19 boy 32:18 42:13 broadcasters capacious 47:12 challenge 13:25
43:2 56:23 7:10,14 19:22 49:21 45:10
44:4 breadth 6:18 20:8 21:25 careful 55:24 challenges 30:20
31:4,10,13,19 9:21 cartoons 37:7 changes 7:20
2:4,7,11 41:6,15,20 8:21 9:5,6,10 5:18 6:3,7 7:18 22:8
3:8 24:11 42:6 43:7,14 16:24 22:22 8:25 10:15,17 channels 18:13
52:24 43:17,22 44:14 24:23 28:4,5 10:24,24 11:5 28:6,8 36:18
55:24 46:9,10 48:19 brother 23:15 19:1 20:5 21:8 25:5,13 28:2
36:13 briefs 7:25 brought 25:11 34:25 35:5 39:7,8,13 40:6
bring 15:12,14 burden 39:3 45:3 47:9 56:20 57:3
32:22 buttock 47:24 cases 25:10,11 children 3:24
3:5,17,22 9:3 26:25 contract 4:2 D
29:4 40:9 9:10,19,25 concede 9:12 contrary 40:21 D 3:1
13:10,15 15:9 11:24 13:21 core 24:17 25:14 dealing 10:16
12:1,4 44:18,18,21 condition 3:22 country 21:17 decades 26:4,4
44:24 45:9,10,11 4:6,10 42:3 41:1
50:7 52:10 3:22 39:4 19:15,21 31:12 21:6 29:9
5:7,13 6:8 55:11 56:18 34:23,24 35:4 55:6 39:24
7:9 25:22 commission's consequences court 1:1,14 decided 10:21
27:20 10:11 11:22 49:3 55:16 3:10,12 4:18 13:4 32:3
37:25 13:19 14:12,18 considered 14:1 5:17 6:17 9:14 56:18
54:20 36:10 29:22 52:13 23:22 24:14 27:10 34:18
40:22 24:23 25:7,9 constitutional 34:11 37:14 decisionmaking
communication 41:25 49:15 39:14 40:22 37:12
35:14 1:3 3:4,17 content 36:22,23 courtroom 54:16
37:24 39:4 content-based 47:20 decisis 7:1
complete 7:17 9:13,15 10:1 culture 18:22 8:11
completely continue 5:6 50:9,17 demographic
54:8 37:10 55:20 expire 51:22
33:21 effective 10:9 28:1 46:2
display 15:12,14 egregious 52:4 essence 13:17 explanation
displays 45:19 eight-track 14:19 56:18 expletive 10:24
disposed 12:13 either 5:24 7:12 2:8,12 24:12 31:1 34:25
13:19 embarrassme... evaluated 27:22 expletives 10:17
documentary 50:19 everybody 40:2,4
33:17 encourage 19:23 evident 53:25 explosion 53:7
36:17,21 2:3,14 3:7 24:20 example 21:9,9 expression
52:23 enforceable 22:22 52:17 14:25 54:14
14:10 doubt 30:18 20:11 exceedingly 33:19
20:3,9
27:19,20 drama 41:3 8:18 39:19 34:18 eye 50:22
33:1 dramatic 17:8 47:1 50:19 excerpt 17:15
38:5 17:13 51:25 54:5 excerpts 16:18
49:16
drives 37:12 enforces 39:21 29:13 faced 53:5
dwelled 52:3 engaging 47:13 3:20 fact 5:25 10:8
dysfunctional enormously excretory 14:21 39:24 55:21
entering 17:22 50:22 facts 54:14
40:25 earthshaking 39:25 43:11 expand 35:25 fairly 25:15
33:22 edgierness episodes 46:12 16:12,16 families 42:25
44:11 fishing 31:21 frankly 4:9 56:22 57:3 government 8:5
25:19 fleeting 10:16,23 friends 4:16 ginned-up 26:25 39:16,23 40:13
34:6 10:24 11:6,6 friend's 9:19 Ginsburg 7:24 government's
13:6 14:6 51:7 8:14 16:17,22 40:16
44:11 30:17 31:1 front 12:22 17:15,20,25 granted 13:2
53:21 32:14 34:25 13:10,14 19:4 23:2,11,21 graphic 46:13
Flying 46:5 44:5,18 55:7,11,23 gravamen 49:18
22:13 follow 29:24 functional 20:18 gives 25:25 45:3
39:4 following 9:20 fundamental 53:21 guarantee 29:6
forfeiture 14:9 further 9:4 22:7 34:16 36:8 guideline 44:3
found 12:4 24:10 33:10 34:18 half 16:10
10:4 39:18 3:9 4:1,10 5:1 10:20 17:18 hammer 40:10
12:6 four 16:25 34:15 5:4 6:2,6 7:24 18:1 19:6,7 handful 21:17
15:5 46:8 49:16 8:13 11:17 21:13 23:19 happen 21:15
24:16 50:7,16 51:1 12:3,9,12,16 28:9,9,10 35:19 38:22
51:23 12:19 13:12,18 29:19 30:12 happened 25:2
28:14,16 Fox 1:7,21 2:7 15:17,22 16:6 31:6 33:9 27:23
29:3 3:5 7:15 10:17 16:21 17:4,17 35:22 37:13 happens 42:3
32:3 10:17 12:14 17:24 18:24 38:9,9,18,23 43:2
34:12,13 13:2,8 14:6 19:14,19 20:3 38:23 43:14,18 happy 33:3
35:16,17 18:3 22:22 20:17,20 21:19 45:13 50:2,3 harbor 28:25
41:2 24:11 29:18,22 21:23 22:19 50:25 54:21 29:2
44:2,16 30:17,17,24,25 23:9,21 24:8 56:2 harbors 29:2
45:3 37:8 24:16,16 26:14 Golden 30:18,18 hard 17:12
50:18 Fox's 35:15 38:7 52:21,25 good 12:24 26:8 54:21,23
53:2 fraction 9:8,9 53:15,16 54:8 38:23 54:6 harms 7:5,7,9
55:6 55:14 55:10 56:4,13 good-faith 51:13 haven 7:19,21
20:12 55:3 indicative 16:3,4 JR 1:17 2:3,14 47:22 48:3,12
identify 45:9,10 individually 3:7 52:23 48:15,20,23
28:9 II 40:5 industry 11:8,13 51:7,8 53:12 49:24 50:10,25
38:20 images 24:24 11:23 56:25 51:6,14,20
importance inevitable 34:23 judgments 52:19,20 53:1
26:13 initially 24:15 Justice 1:18 3:3 Justices 55:7
51:3 26:1,1 instance 41:7 5:2,5,23 6:3,4 justify 27:15
43:12 46:12 interview 56:12 17:25 18:6,25 36:16,22 53:15
including 40:1,8 35:1 56:1 19:25 20:14,18 keep 26:11
27:18 21:4 invalid 27:16 23:1,2,4,7,11 19:9,11,15,25
inconsistent 55:8 25:4,5,13,23 35:18 36:15
42:9 16:22 17:6 28:23 29:16 Kennedy's
increase 36:12 47:8 54:7 32:5,7,12,22 kind 6:15,24
14:12 24:17,21 36:16,22 38:2 54:6
39:21 J 38:11,15 39:7 kinds 21:13 33:3
26:19 8:2 9:11,11 January 1:11 41:20 42:6 know 13:7 16:5
54:12 11:24 13:21 jeopardy 36:3 43:7,14,17,22 16:16 18:10
54:22 54:17 jocks 55:16 46:19,21 47:9 33:2,24 35:12
41:7,12 42:24 54:19 41:22 money 33:20 19:21
47:4 list 8:3 9:20 marginal 36:12 38:9 42:7 news 30:14
51:12 16:19 52:8 mark 23:23 monologue 17:6 newspapers
literally 26:24 marker 5:20 6:9 17:7 53:10 37:20
36:6 living 33:9 16:11 22:14 movie 32:16 nonexclusive
37:21 local 30:14 35:3 57:7 40:4 49:21 52:8
long 19:1 33:9 matters 40:8 moving 14:3 non-sexualized
31:3 7:6 37:15,24 23:17 25:5 musicians 40:3 15:18
34:4 44:21 30:6,9,16,22 must-carry 22:6 norm 4:17,17
43:21 look 7:11 20:24 31:14 32:13,20 17:13
47:23 25:24 37:5 35:7,10,15,18 N normal 40:11
51:18 40:24 47:2,8 36:20 37:3,20 N 2:1,1 3:1 normally 6:25
looked 48:16 41:6 45:14,24 naked 15:12,13 norms 17:9
42:9 50:22 means 24:4 50:19 55:8,12 15:13 18:4
54:15 27:19,21 28:11 natural 34:2 24:20 28:14
54:9 merits 46:10 45:2 50:23 17:1,10,18
27:1 54:18 miniscule 9:8,9 48:3 46:4,6,7,13
making 4:16 minor 25:15 network 29:12 54:2 56:24
33:20 43:12 minutes 52:21 32:25 53:19 45:6 49:1
17:21 momentary 48:1 50:1 54:23
39:25 opinion 12:14 27:10 30:25 perfectly 26:20 22:20 25:12
46:12 31:7 32:8 31:16 32:4,23 33:2 41:16,21 48:2
56:14 opposed 45:15 34:17 40:23 period 13:5 25:1 51:10
39:11 pages 50:11,14 perspective 9:19 policy 15:19
25:21 38:8 pandering 15:2 7:3,4 27:25 portion 34:25
26:1 orders 5:16 parents 19:3 pervasiveness portrayed 23:24
50:13 organs 14:22 parlance 23:17 15:10 40:13 42:12
ought 6:7 7:1 42:11 53:3 52:24 11:19
38:9 48:24 38:8 39:25 24:9,10,13,25 powerful 45:25
50:4,5 overruled 6:7 penalized 30:25 38:4,13 39:1,9 predicates 44:22
overruling 34:9 pending 47:16 47:15 preferred 22:8
owning 51:9 31:5 33:20 play 38:8 presented 24:3
P 1:22 2:10 3:1 55:24 56:12 56:21 previous 3:11
public 3:14,15 radio 4:13 5:11 27:21 respect 5:11,14
34:9 29:12 18:9 27:12,17 record 6:16 11:21 14:5,11
51:25 publish 49:12 raise 11:5 17:17 records 33:10 15:3 16:6 18:2
30:8 45:15 raised 30:19 reference 8:19 23:23 24:5,6
42:10 punishment raises 11:5,6 referring 52:17 27:23 45:6
14:8 30:24 refrain 3:23 53:2 54:18
36:1 put 5:19 6:9 range 9:2,5 regime 39:20,23 responded 30:1
19:3 21:5 rare 16:14,15 50:17,19 51:25 Respondents
19:20 42:12 31:22 44:11 40:14 3:19 6:6,18
39:5 puts 20:12 41:23 reaching 12:5 regulation 39:16 16:25 24:11
55:4 Python's 46:5 13:21 53:20,20,21 39:12
11:18 29:19,22 42:4 readily 17:7 rejected 13:11 rest 53:9
question 4:5 reality 20:8 remaining 52:22 restraints 37:23
11:7 14:12,15 really 5:2,19 9:8 35:11,16 46:11 36:24 52:2
23:24 26:14 15:24 16:1,5,7 renewals 27:1 28:17
43:22 47:10 53:19 54:21 repeats 11:3 rests 39:3
quite 5:21,23 reasonable 10:4 required 10:2 revenue 37:11
17:12 quote 26:20 reasons 42:22 requirements Richie 21:11
50:19 rebroadcast requires 9:16 51:10
37:18 REBUTTAL reserve 24:7 12:21 15:18
31:6,9 satisfy 13:8 54:17 sides 42:16 staggeringly
43:7,25 Saving 30:7 seeing 29:18,19 sign 22:9,9 22:3,3
47:4,15 40:18 48:9 42:13 significant 5:9 stake 47:8
48:20 saying 8:3 13:16 seen 17:22 43:17 7:17 8:23 stance 30:22
24:1,2 26:15 sees 17:11 36:17 55:4 standard 15:8
25:3,5 says 7:15 18:11 19:5 56:24 simply 25:15 49:20 55:1
38:11 23:15 34:13,16 segments 18:9 32:14 43:8,9 standards 14:13
39:8 50:1 self-restraint single 45:10 14:18,24 18:8
46:17,21 Scalia 4:23 5:2,5 37:13 53:3 sister 37:16 32:25 33:4,7
51:6,14 17:2,5 22:9,20 sense 45:17 sit 26:24 35:9 36:11
52:20 23:1,4,7,13 sent 11:10 12:10 sitting 22:4 47:10,11 53:24
57:3 25:4 32:12,22 sentence 56:21 situation 16:8 stare 7:1
scene 17:21,23 41:3 54:7 slew 30:9 stations 1:7,21
18:5 43:12 service 30:12 slivers 36:15 2:8 3:5 18:11
32:11 scenes 46:4 serving 24:17 small 18:22 31:5 24:12 29:5
48:13,18 scheme 54:22 set 19:4 35:16 society 18:21 31:5 36:9
53:5 Schindler's 8:3 SETH 1:22 2:10 Solicitor 1:17 statue 47:18
schoolyard 24:2 sets 10:22 somewhat 25:25 status 28:22,22
42:2 56:6,9 sexual 14:21 46:20 49:15 51:11
40:18 scripted 35:15 42:10,23 31:15 42:1 steer 39:17
48:9 scrutiny 33:4,7 sexually 52:18 sorts 24:24,24 step 16:10
shock 32:7 53:7 speaker 28:21 Stern 53:8
second 10:21 shocking 15:2 specific 8:19,21 story 42:24
20:12 16:9 29:8 shots 32:15 22:1,3 street 23:3,15
28:25 31:14,20 44:23 show 9:21 39:4 speech 29:13 strict 33:4
52:6 54:15 42:2,10 45:7 30:11 39:16 strong 10:3
51:8 39:24 40:1 shower 43:4 55:14 stumbles 43:2
45:12,14 see 5:18 12:11 42:11 53:17 56:13 15:5 33:4
12:18 28:10 shown 17:23 spent 25:19 43:13 47:5
44:12 48:16 54:19 55:23 staff 48:8 subset 10:25
44:20 teachers 22:23 18:25 20:4,4 20:22 understanding
technological 21:19,24,24 transmitted 24:18 25:14
47:15 technology 6:14 30:10,23 31:7 treat 37:15 unfavored 28:22
49:14 televise 17:16 36:7,16,25 treatment 32:7 33:25,25
21:18 24:11 54:24 55:2,4 truth 22:18 unscripted 56:2
31:1 35:12 thinking 55:5 try 33:3 35:8 uptake 19:23,24
16:17 tell 4:7 8:1 22:18 41:11 49:17 38:16,17 43:23 36:5,13 40:12
33:12,14 44:16 45:23,23 thousands 16:24 44:8,12 49:21 51:4
49:5 48:17 16:24,24 26:24 Tuesday 1:11 53:9 54:1
23:12 test 14:19 52:7,8 52:7 two 7:12,16 8:14 vague 14:14
39:7,8 43:19 thumb 40:10 26:19 28:14 vagueness 5:5
56:22 57:2,3 till 25:6 42:15 50:24 14:5,16 30:20
23:25 time 6:17 8:8 two-part 14:19 45:7 50:9,17
50:8 think 4:9 5:9,16 51:22 ubiquity 5:14 value 18:7,16
7:11,14,16,21 tiny 54:10,10 15:20,21 values 10:5,10
54:9 13:25 14:4,14 today 5:13,24 6:1,4 10:14 verbal 32:6
15:11 16:10,11 23:17 26:24 11:3 12:3 Verrilli 1:17 2:3
7:24 8:13 30:23 32:13 25:21 45:20 worrying 44:4 1920s 4:13
12:3,9 33:3 34:2 weren't 15:13 worse 9:19 1927 24:21 25:6
38:19,20 51:22 We'll 3:3 worth 22:2 1970-something
15:17 55:20 we're 20:15 wouldn't 4:5,9 25:7
16:6,21 wanted 42:6 21:19,21 23:14 35:7 1975 24:21
43:18 25:8,16 28:7 writing 25:20 1978 45:13 46:3
19:14,19 wants 32:2 31:4 33:24 wrong 4:7 34:17 1980s 53:6
49:22 52:10,11 45:1 42:15
22:19 want-to-be 35:1 we've 21:20 26:3 wrote 31:7 2
26:14 War 40:5 26:4 55:3 2(2) 11:1
Washington WGBH 46:3 X 2001 10:19,22
54:8 1:10,18,20,22 whatsoever x 1:2,9 10:25 11:8,13
56:4,13 wasn't 11:6 41:6 24:20 11:23 13:6,20
48:9 50:23 wide 9:2,5 39:17 Y 13:22 14:18
watches 43:2 38:5 17:1 25:2 2004 26:22,23
49:8 Waxman 1:22 woman 17:21 41:4 43:5 2012 1:11
39:13 40:21 women 30:25 York 8:8 24 2:8
43:20 44:13,15 36:25 3
39 2:12
9:25 17:7 19:1 28:4,5 35:2 10-year-old
26:21 28:15 44:3 49:11,21 10-1293 1:6 3:4 50 16:2 25:2
21:2,6 38:24 45:13 work 26:7 54:1 11:22 1:15 3:2 6
45:5 49:15,22 52:9 worked 26:20 12 46:11 6:00 3:18 9:22
26:20 12:23 57:6 9:23 16:15
13:7 19:3 55:2 world 40:5,15 7 8:8 39:24
22:1 weak 37:16 worried 30:17 7-second 55:19
46:11
27:9 welcome 43:20 31:4,8 44:9 17 46:16 8
29:12 went 13:24 worry 19:7 18 46:9
19:5
28:6
46:22,24
41:10
42:4
