IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
KOUICHI TANIGUCHI, :
Petitioner : No. 10-1472
v. :
KAN PACIFIC SAIPAN, LTD. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, February 21, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:14 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MICHAEL S. FRIED, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
Petitioner.
DAN HIMMELFARB, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MICHAEL S. FRIED, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DAN HIMMELFARB, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL S. FRIED, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:14 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 10-1472, Kouichi Taniguchi v. Kan Pacific
Saipan, Limited.
Mr. Fried.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL S. FRIED
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FRIED: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Our brief lists six categories of
authorities demonstrating that the work of an
interpreter under 28 U.S.C. section 1920(6) is limited
to spoken communication. Primary among these is the
Court Interpreters Act itself, whose central provisions
afford simultaneous or consecutive spoken interpreter
services. When the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I make sure that I
understand the extent of your argument? Are you saying
that it's interpretation, oral interpretation, just in
the courtroom?
MR. FRIED: Well, Your -- Justice Sotomayor,
I think that it's a -- that there is a textual ambiguity
in the statute about the extent of covered spoken
interpreter services. One could argue it either way,
and we don't -- I am happy to proceed under either
assumption. But what's clear is that, however far it
extends within the area of spoken interpretation,
document translation is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I have to say that
if you read it the way you do, then what you're
suggesting is that for appointed experts, they only get
recompensed for the time they're testifying, because
that's the only time they spend in court.
MR. FRIED: Court-appointed experts, Your
Honor?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes.
MR. FRIED: I think the -- the legislative
history of that seems to indicate that that provision
was actually inserted into 1920(6) for a separate
housekeeping reason, because it paralleled Rule 706 of
the Federal Rules of Evidence, which was a pre-existing
rule addressing court-appointed experts, and simply put
it into the enumeration.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But court experts get
a -- get paid for their prep work.
MR. FRIED: Yes, Your Honor. I -- I think
that -- that that may well be the case. But I -- I
think that the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I -- one further
question.
MR. FRIED: Of course.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I take all your
arguments, but I read the common dictionary and there's
no question that the primary meaning of "interpreter" is
interpretation of oral languages. But the dictionary is
broad enough to include translation work as well.
Given that the courts for 70 years have been
awarding -- most of the them except for I think the
Seventh here. Virtually every court over a 70-year
period has been awarding translation fees as -- as
authorized. Why shouldn't that be enough for us?
MR. FRIED: Well, I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Meaning, if the
dictionary term is broad enough and that's what the
courts have been doing and the world hasn't crashed
despite one case where a large amount was given -- your
adversary points to the fact that most of the
translation fees tend to be fairly reasonable. Why
should we muck with what works?
MR. FRIED: Well, Your Honor, I think
that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think I'm drawing --
I'm drawing from ways that my colleague next to me
usually asks a question.
(Laughter.)
MR. FRIED: Your Honor, I think that the
primary reason why the Court should -- should not adopt
that is because it's -- it's inconsistent with the text.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's wrong is your answer,
right?
MR. FRIED: Yes, Your Honor.
(Laughter.)
MR. FRIED: And -- and it's also worth
noting that the courts -- none of the courts of appeals
who have adopted this construction of 1920(6) have
considered or addressed our primary arguments in this
case. They haven't addressed the -- the uniform
professional literature addressing this -- this topic,
the dictionaries in their aggregate, the Administrative
Office's interpretation of this statute, the consistent
congressional distinction between written translation
and spoken -- spoken interpretation that runs throughout
the code. And --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, just out of curiosity,
why do you think that all these courts just took for
granted the opposite reading?
MR. FRIED: Well, Your Honor, I'm -- I'm not
sure that I have a -- a good answer to that. I --
perhaps that they weren't presented with some of
these -- these arguments and didn't have the opportunity
to consider them.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Perhaps it was
Dr. Johnson's answer when a lady pointed out an error in
his dictionary, and his answer was: "Stupidity, madam,
sheer stupidity."
(Laughter.)
MR. FRIED: I think -- I think, Your Honor,
that -- that Kan Pacific disputes very little of -- of
our central argument. Their discussion of --
JUSTICE BREYER: There are -- there are lots
of regions of the country -- Puerto Rico, for example --
where there are vast numbers of documents that have to
be translated if you go into Federal court, not
necessarily in the Commonwealth courts. That's
expensive to people. And they might have thought for a
long time, while that expense won't go away, it's at
least better to have it paid by the loser than to have
it paid by the winner.
That's been the common practice. I don't
think that's a foolish approach. And you can find
language in this, which is to go back -- go back to
Justice Sotomayor.
MR. FRIED: Well, Your Honor, I think
that -- again, the best reason to reject that view is
because it doesn't make a coherent whole of the statute.
These provisions operate together in a uniform set of --
as a uniform set of policies for addressing a common
subject.
And the way they -- these provisions
interact in broad strokes that make perfect sense on our
reading is that in the -- in the primary class of cases
that motivated the passage of this statute, namely cases
brought by the government where there were significant
constitutional Confrontation Clause concerns about
criminal defendants not understanding the spoken
proceedings, in those core class of cases the Congress
elected to pay for spoken interpreter services directly
in the first instance.
Now, in the non-core class of cases, private
civil litigation, the Congress elected not to pay for
these services but in 1920(6) to facilitate them in the
lesser manner of providing that a party that incurred
these expenses could recover them at the end of the
case if it wins.
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you think of the --
I mean, the First Circuit went into this, which deals a
lot with Puerto Rico, and it felt that this fell within
the idea of fees for exemplification, which is
certifying a document. And, in fact, to certify a
document that comes into the Federal court in San Juan,
you have to have it translated very often. And so, the
translation cost is at least consistent with the idea
there of trying to -- well, you may -- you don't have
to -- you may impose the cost on the loser.
MR. FRIED: Well, Justice Breyer, there was
actually a specific provision in this bill -- in a prior
version of this bill that addressed the context of
Puerto Rico. And the significance of that provision is
that when the Congress was addressing written
translation, which was part of the -- part of that
provision, it specifically used the word "translation"
to refer to that.
And this just, again, confirms that the --
that the usual congressional practice of differentiating
between these terms in -- in statutes generally was
fully applicable here, that the Congress knew the
difference between these terms, used them appropriately.
And the fact that having removed that -- that provision
from the statute, the statute as passed contains only
the words "interpreter" and "interpretation," and no
forms of "translate," just again reaffirms that -- that
the ordinary meaning of these terms should apply.
And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What of the document
that's -- that's read out in open court and it's a
document, a contract, in another language, and the
interpreter -- the witness presents the document, and
the interpreter interprets it?
MR. FRIED: Your Honor, the professional
literature addresses this as sight interpretation or
sight translation, and it's uniformly recognized to be a
species of interpretation. It occurs -- the -- the
interpreter speaks aloud in the presence of the audience
being communicated to in the course of a spoken
proceeding.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what if the -- if
the interpreter, being diligent, said I'm going to
have to translate this document in open court, I'd like
to have it in advance so I can be sure that my
translation is going to be accurate? So that in fact
the interpreter looks at the document and, in -- in
preparation for the trial, translates it.
MR. FRIED: Well, Your Honor, I think that
the -- the preparatory work that occurred outside of
court would not be compensable interpretation work. But
when the -- when the interpreter returned to court and
gave the oral interpretation of that document, that
would constitute interpretation. But --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that -- but
she's not interpreting it. She's already got the thing
in whatever language they're -- English, I guess. But,
I mean, she's not interpreting; she's reading the
English translation.
MR. FRIED: That's true, Mr. Chief Justice,
but the key reason why that would constitute
interpretation is because the -- the interpreter is
speaking aloud, communicating in the course of a spoken
conversation to an audience who -- who doesn't speak
English or who --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, I misunderstood
the hypothetical, then. I'm sorry.
MR. FRIED: Well, perhaps I did, Your Honor.
I apologize.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought it was a
situation where you've got a -- a document in -- in,
say, French and the person translates it or interprets
it -- I don't want to prejudge the issue -- and -- and
then -- in English and then the person reads the English
thing in -- in court. That's not interpretation at any
point, is it?
MR. FRIED: Well, Your Honor, I think that
the literature does typically class the in-court oral
communication of its content as a form of
interpretation. But any ambiguity on this point
really -- really doesn't -- doesn't affect anything in
practice. I mean, any sight interpretation occurs as a
brief interval in a larger proceeding.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, is it true that as a
matter of common usage, when we are talking about oral
testimony in court, we often use "interpretation" and
"translation" or "interpreter" and "translator" somewhat
interchangeably, but when we're talking about rendering
a document into -- into a different language, we
generally talk about that as "translation"? This is a
matter of common usage. Do you think that's correct?
MR. FRIED: If I understand Your Honor
correctly, yes. I think that the ordinary meaning of
"translate" applies to the context of -- of the
communication of information in written documents. And
it's discrete from "interpretation," which -- which is
limited to the spoken --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you didn't understand
the question.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That wasn't quite my
point.
MR. FRIED: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: My point was that I think
we say -- in fact, in a Supreme Court case, we've said
in the Hernandez case, when we're talking about oral
testimony in court, we tend to use "translator" or
"translate" and "interpreter" or "interpret" somewhat
interchangeably. Is that correct?
MR. FRIED: Oh, I apologize, Your Honor.
Yes, there -- you can use the word "translate"
generically. There's no question. Frequently in court,
and I think out of court as well, that some people can
use the word "translate" in a manner that doesn't
differentiate between modes. Our point is that that --
that double meaning doesn't apply to "interpreter,"
which has a single narrow meaning limited to spoken
communication.
And Kan Pacific's discussion of the
dictionaries is limited to a single dictionary,
Webster's Third. The majority of dictionaries
categorically exclude document translation from the
scope of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Webster's Third, as I
recall, is the dictionary that defines "imply" to mean
"infer" --
MR. FRIED: It does, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and "infer" to mean
"imply."
It's not a very good dictionary.
(Laughter.)
MR. FRIED: Well, the Court in the MCI -- in
the MCI v. AT&T case did indicate that.
But in any event, the -- on its terms, that
definition supports our reading over Kan Pacific's
because it does indicate, even as to that dictionary
definition, that the -- that the most common meaning of
the term is the meaning referring to spoken
communication. And this Court frequently looks to the
most common meaning for purposes of statutory
interpretation, as it did in Mallard in construing the
word "request," and in Ramsey in construing the word
"envelope."
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could we get back to the
issue? In the legislative history of this provision, is
there any indication that Congress explicitly rejected
translation work from its coverage?
MR. FRIED: Well, I can talk -- there's a --
the text does. I mean, the text --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Outside of the text. Is
there a statement by one of the sponsors in the
congressional bill or the study --
MR. FRIED: I'm not -- I'm sorry.
I'm not sure that there's an explicit
statement that I'm aware of in the legislative history.
There's a lot of provisions in the legislative history
which plainly presuppose that. And the Congress
received professional literature from -- documents from
the American Association of Language Specialists.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Those are the other
provisions that they passed with respect to --
MR. FRIED: Well, specifically with respect
to costs, the Congress -- the House Report alludes to
Rule 43(f), which is now 43(d), as a relevant
pre-existing rule. And, of course, it's undisputed that
Rule 43(d)'s cost provision is -- is limited to spoken
communication of interpreters. So, there is that in the
history as well.
But I think that there's no doubt that in
the -- under the text of the statute, subsection (k),
the modes subsection, which appears at page 5a of the
red brief appendix, as it was initially passed,
expressly says that the interpretation under -- under
this section must be done using methods that all
agree are limited to spoken communication.
Now, in the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, if a lawyer sits
down with an interpreter now in his office and says to
the interpreter I can't pay for translation work; now,
you sit here and interpret what this letter says for me
-- is that what we're asking lawyers to do now?
MR. FRIED: Not at all, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If we accept your
reading?
MR. FRIED: No, Your Honor. That would not
constitute interpreting, because it would not -- the
interpreter would not be communicating between live
parties in the context of a real-time proceeding.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you would say that
might be different in the courtroom.
MR. FRIED: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because the lawyer is
communicating something live. It could be in the
courtroom, but not outside.
MR. FRIED: That -- that's correct, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there something
logical about this?
MR. FRIED: Yes, Your Honor, because in the
courtroom, in the context of a live spoken proceeding,
that satisfies all of the ordinary definitional elements
of interpreting. But that's not the case in somebody's
office in the presence of a single party and a written
document.
And -- and there's no question, Your Honor,
that to the extent there's any ambiguity with respect to
unusual examples, this is a distinction that's
absolutely clear in the vast majority of real-world
incidents.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about depositions?
The -- the translation would be of the spoken word, but
it wouldn't be in court.
MR. FRIED: Well, I do think there -- one
could potentially argue that spoken interpretation at a
deposition isn't covered in light of some of the
dictionaries like Black's Law Dictionary, which -- which
indicates that the word is restricted to people who work
in trial. But I certainly think that it could be argued
either way, in a case where --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what's -- what's
your position? I -- I take a deposition at -- in my law
office and I have to have an interpreter there. Is that
recoverable or not?
MR. FRIED: I'm not sure we have a
definitive -- I mean, I think you could argue it either
way, Your Honor. It doesn't affect our case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, how do you think it
affects the way you read the statute? What do you think
should be the result?
MR. FRIED: Well, I think there's a
reasonable reading that that should be covered. I think
that that's certainly -- we have no vested interest in
opposing that. I mean, that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me ask you this
question: In the background here, is there some concern
that we're going to have minor cases but with huge
translation costs, and it would be simply unfair? And
if the answer to that is "yes," isn't that taken care of
by the statutory direction that the court "may" give
costs?
MR. FRIED: Well, Your Honor, that sort of
discretion demonstrably does not prevent the issuance of
these large awards, because there have been a number of
large awards issued notwithstanding that discretion.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, isn't that an abuse
of discretion?
MR. FRIED: Well, not necessarily, Your
Honor. The -- the district courts --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I mean, in other
words, if the court sees that the cost of preparing
documents into an English-language is quite substantial
in light of what's involved in the case, and it's just
not fair to -- to award them, can't that court in its
discretion deny that, or is that not the way it works?
MR. FRIED: That's the way it works, Your
Honor. But I don't think that that discretion is
sufficient to eliminate the deterrent effect that this
Court has recognized in cases like Farmer and
Fleischmann, because it occurs at the end of the case,
after a litigant has already decided whether to bring
suit. The deterrent effect occurs ex ante when a
risk-averse litigant has to decide whether to bring the
case.
But I would just note that these sorts of
policy questions, Your Honor, arise in the context of
language that by its terms extends to interpreting and
not translating. And we would say that the relevant
policy question is simply whether there are sensible
reasons to -- that Congress may have drawn a line where
it did. And, plainly, there are adequate reasons that
these services, document translation services that were
excluded, are potentially large and fall under the
general principles that this Court has recognized are --
are presumptively not frequently avoided --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess I'm -- I'm
having a problem with, you know, they're "potentially
large." Interpretive services are potentially large,
although you claim that they -- that they don't -- they
have sort of a terminus point. I've been in trials
where we've had multiple languages simultaneously being
translated to multiple defendants, with witnesses
speaking even other languages. I was in the Southern
District of New York. And fees there without
translation, just for the oral courtroom work, sometimes
went ahead for months.
So, potentiality's not the question. If
you're talking about disproportionality, then that goes
to the word "reasonable" in the statute, doesn't it? I
mean, the Ortho case you point to, the court did sizably
cut the translation fees. And, more importantly, from
the little I can tell, that was a huge patent case with
a patent that was claimed to control 60 percent of a
market.
So, I don't know that that was a small case
by anyone's definition.
MR. FRIED: Certainly, Your Honor. I -- as
to the difference, I mean, I'm not aware of, under this
statute, an interpreter's spoken interpretation award
approaching anywhere near some of the larger document
translation awards that have been issued. But
nonetheless, I am not denying that there could be large
interpreter awards in some cases. But the fact is that
adding on document translation awards is additive.
The sort of necessity review that would be
necessary to police these document translation awards
would be quite burdensome on the district courts. And,
in fact, the necessity standard is actually particularly
problematic to apply to translations, Your Honor,
because the fact is you don't know what a document says
until it has been translated. And the exercise of
trying to go back and reconstruct ex ante what a --
whether a person was reasonably necessary in causing to
be translated something that they didn't know what it
meant is likely to lead to very subjective --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why haven't the -- I was
interested here that the amici on your side consist of
some professors and the -- I guess the trade association
of interpreters or translators, but the people who would
have the financial stake in it, the defense bar, the
plaintiffs' bar in some circumstances, have not filed
any brief. And I tend, though not putting a lot of
weight on it, to take it as a sign, along with the long
period of time, that there hasn't been some tremendous
financial problem. What evidence is there that there
has been? I -- a few cases, but in general.
MR. FRIED: Your Honor, I'm not at all
suggesting that there has been a tremendous financial
strain on the system. We're saying that this is a
statute that, by its plain language, extends to --
JUSTICE BREYER: There's a plain language
argument I got. But how many years has the great bulk
of the court been going the other way?
MR. FRIED: I'm sorry, Your Honor. I
actually -- I didn't hear the end of your question.
JUSTICE BREYER: How many years has, would
you say, the great bulk of the Federal system been
deciding this differently from the way you think it
should be?
MR. FRIED: I'm not sure that it's the great
bulk. I mean, there's been a significant disagreement--
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the bulk.
MR. FRIED: Well, I think it's -- I think
that it's increased over time as these --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, when did all this rot
set in, in your opinion? How long?
MR. FRIED: I'm not sure that I could
pinpoint a date, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: What's the first one?
MR. FRIED: Your Honor, I'm not sure. I'll
have to find out while my adversary is arguing when the
first decision was.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I've got one going as
far back as -- it was a district court. But it was as
far back as the 1930s.
MR. FRIED: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Some in the '40s, some
in the '50s.
MR. FRIED: Well, certainly, it wasn't
construing 1920(6) at that time, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no. Clearly. But
these awards have been common.
MR. FRIED: Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: You have a case cited from
1812. I take it that's it.
MR. FRIED: Certainly, Your Honor.
Addressing --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought we're -- I
thought we're addressing not whether it's a good idea to
give fees, but whether fees are payable under this
particular statute, right? Which was enacted when?
MR. FRIED: 1978, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: 1978.
MR. FRIED: And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not so long ago.
MR. FRIED: Absolutely correct, Your Honor.
We agree. And -- and the structural reasons are --
within the Court Interpreters Act itself are every bit
as powerful as the ordinary textual indicia that support
our reading.
And, in fact, Kan Pacific's argument that
the word "interpreters" should be assigned different
meanings in different parts of the statute is -- is
unsupported. Kan Pacific relies on what it
characterizes as different language in section 2, which
put in 1827 and 1828, and section 7, which put in the
cost provision. And it notes that section 2 sometimes
uses the broader phrase "interpreters in courts of the
United States," whereas section 7 uses the word
"interpreters" alone.
But Kan Pacific doesn't examine the context
in which section 2 does and does not use that broader
phrase. And those specifics really undermine any
argument I might make along these lines. As originally
passed in section 2, 1827 contains 26 occurrences of the
word "interpreter," not counting the title. And of
those 26 uses, 24 simply use the word "interpreter" by
itself. So, there's certainly at the very threshold no
overarching pattern of usage distinction between them.
More fundamentally, though, the -- the
substantive provisions addressing the use of
interpreters by parties in these cases in 1827 do so
without using that broader phrase. Subsection (d) --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do so without --
MR. FRIED: Without -- I'm sorry, Your
Honor. Without using the broader phrase "in courts of
the United States."
Subsection (d) is the provision that -- that
governs the use of interpreters in cases brought by the
government. This appears at page 2a of the red brief
appendix. And it simply provides that upon a
determination of need, the services of an interpreter
will be used in these cases.
The only two provisions that use the phrase
"interpreters in courts of the United States" are
subsections (a) and (b), which are both at 1a of the red
brief appendix, and both of these provisions simply are
addressing the scope of the Administrative Office's
duties under the statute. And as such, it simply makes
clear that, in keeping with the office's ordinary
function, it's -- it's facilitating the work of the
Federal courts and making clear that the office isn't,
for instance, certifying interpreters for the State
courts.
So, nothing in this language suggests in any
way that the -- that the word "interpreter" means
something different in different places or that the --
or that the services of an interpreter are viewed as
embracing the same thing.
So, we think that a variety of indicia of
meaning converge in this case to support the conclusion
that 1920(6) is limited to spoken communication.
If there are no further questions, I'll
reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Fried.
Mr. Himmelfarb.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAN HIMMELFARB
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. HIMMELFARB: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
The word "interpreter" has two possible
meanings that are relevant here, a broader one and a
narrower one. The broader meaning is a person who
translates from one language to another. Under this
definition, the terms "interpreter" and "translator" are
used interchangeably.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Have you ever seen a book,
you know, translated from a foreign language, you know,
"War and Peace," you know, and you're at the mercy of
what we call the translator, and it says on the fly
page, you know, "John Smith," comma, "Trans.," period.
Does it ever say "John Smith," comma, "Int.," period?
MR. HIMMELFARB: It's used in the narrower
sense in that context, I think, Justice Scalia. The
narrower meaning of "interpreter" is member of a
profession that specializes in oral translation; and in
that narrower sense, an interpreter is distinct from a
translator, which is the sense you've just identified,
which is a person who specializes in written
translation.
Our submission is that, as the great
majority of courts who've expressed a view on this
question have recognized, the broader definition makes
more -- more sense in the particular context at issue
here. And we say that for a number of reasons.
The first is that the basic purpose of
translation in the litigation context is to make
evidence intelligible to the parties and the court.
Section 1920 reflects a congressional judgment that the
cost of making evidence intelligible to the parties and
the court can be borne by the losing party.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, it doesn't. It
reflects that judgment only if you're right that
"interpreter" means "translator."
MR. HIMMELFARB: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you're begging the
question. You could say that the one should embrace the
other. But whether Congress thought that or not is
mostly dependent on the language Congress used, isn't
it?
MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, let me be as clear as
I possibly can. I'm obviously not standing here saying
we lose under the language, but it would be a good idea
for the statute to cover written translation. That's
not a legitimate enterprise for a court interpreting a
statute.
What I'm saying is that the text of the
statute bears two -- permissibly bears two possible
meanings. That being the case, it is a legitimate
enterprise for the Court to say which makes sense, which
is it most likely that Congress would have intended in
this particular context?
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why does your-- why does your
interpretation make sense? Shouldn't we view this
against the backdrop of the American rule on fees, that
each party generally bears its own costs and only in
specific circumstances does the loser pay? Now, the
taxation of costs is a very narrow concept.
What is the difference between a case in
which a lot of documents have to be rendered from one
language to another prior to the court proceeding and a
case in which there's a mass of scientific evidence that
has to be interpreted by a scientist or financial
evidence that has to be interpreted by an accountant?
In those instances, the losing party doesn't pay for the
winner's expenses, does it?
MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, let me -- let me
address the first part of your question first, which is
essentially, as I understand it, isn't there a
background principle that says costs don't get taxed? I
actually think insofar as far as tax -- costs are
concerned, as distinct from attorney's fees, the
background principle actually goes the other way.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the background -- costs get
taxed, but costs are very narrow. They are a very small
part of the expenses of a party litigating a case.
Isn't that -- isn't that true?
MR. HIMMELFARB: I think ordinarily that's
true, but I don't think that it follows -- it follows in
any way that there is some sort of tie-breaking
interpretive canon that says when you're interpreting
the costs statute, some version of which has been in
effect since the middle of the 19th century, if you're
unsure about the scope of it, that you err on the side
of narrowness rather than breadth. I just don't think
there's any such interpretive principle. And --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, aren't you asking for
an interpretive principle that errs on the side of
breadth rather than narrowness?
MR. HIMMELFARB: No, we don't.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Why don't we just ask
ourselves what's the most common, what's the best
reading?
MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, I think you obviously
have to start there in this case, as you do in any
statutory case. And our submission is that you have two
possible ordinary definitions. You have two possible
common usages.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But the dictionaries
themselves tell us that one usage is far more common
than the other.
MR. HIMMELFARB: I mean, I guess I just have
to dispute that. We have Webster's, which, you know,
Justice Scalia's view notwithstanding, is viewed by many
people as an authoritative dictionary of English
language. We've got Black's Law Dictionary, which I
think everyone agrees is the leading law dictionary,
which provides as a definition of "interpreter" the
broad definition that we advocate here. To be sure --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I guess Black's Law
Dictionary, which -- the editor of it is a -- is a
co-author with me. So, I -- I feel obliged to spring to
his defense.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Since it is a law
dictionary, presumably it ought to have taken into
account the cases you're referring to, many of which use
the word in -- in this sense, right?
MR. HIMMELFARB: That's true.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Garner.
MR. HIMMELFARB: That's absolutely true, and
just as a dictionary, a law dictionary, will take those
cases into account, I think it's ordinarily presumed
that Congress is taking into account the cases, too, and
it's taking into account dictionary definitions as well.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One -- one of the
things that concerns me is the impact of -- of cost
allowance on the normal litigation incentives. An
interpreter in court is one thing. When you suddenly
get a situation where the costs could be quite large,
particularly in a -- in a disparate way, not necessarily
shared by both sides -- somebody goes into court; they
know they're going to have to -- if they lose, they'll
have to pay an interpreter this. And the other side
comes in and says, well, we think we need to submit this
10,000 pages of -- of documents, which will have to be
translated, and by the way, if you lose, you're going to
pay for that.
In other words, it is a much more variable
element of costs than the interpreter.
MR. HIMMELFARB: I -- I'm not sure that's
true. I think in large litigations where you have many,
many days of trial and potentially pretrial proceedings,
you could have very large oral translation costs. Where
there are many depositions, you could have large oral
translation costs.
But even if I were to accept the premise of
your question, it seems to me that the way these costs
get controlled is through the exercise of district
courts' discretion, not to tax every -- the cost of
translating every document. The Fifth Circuit, which is
one of --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, what -- so, what
goes into the exercise of that discretion?
MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, typically the
criteria for -- I should add that the criteria for
taxing costs of every sort, not just interpreter costs
and not just document translation costs, are essentially
thought to be necessity and reasonableness. So, in
connection with document translation costs, the Fifth
Circuit has suggested that the way to tax them, the
appropriate way to tax them, might be just to tax the
cost of translating headings of foreign language
documents, which should be sufficient to let the lawyer
know whether this is a relevant document that might bear
further translation, and then only the documents that
really turned out, based on the translation of the
heading, to have some significance to the case. So,
that's just one example of the way the discretion gets
exercised.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Himmelfarb, in
section 1920, there are two provisions that specify
costs necessarily obtained for use in the case. And the
interpreter provision doesn't have that qualification,
doesn't say "necessarily obtained for use in the case."
MR. HIMMELFARB: That's -- that's true.
For --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You are asking to read
"interpreter" to mean "translator" as well and to import
into sub (6) "necessary for use in the case."
MR. HIMMELFARB: The necessity limitation in
subsection (6), as with other subsections that don't
specifically use the word "necessarily," come not from
that term, but rather from the word "may" in the first
sentence of the provision, which in tandem with Rule 54
of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, essentially
make this a discretionary call for the district court.
Necessity has long been recognized as one of the
components of that discretionary determination.
The reason we say it doesn't make sense to
have the narrower definition of "interpreter" be the one
that Congress enacted is that written document
translation can be and often is every bit as important
as oral translation. In many cases, it could be more
important, in a contract case, for example.
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you think on the --
I guess nobody wants to defend this argument, including
you, but the First Circuit and several others did look
to the provision which permits the taxing of costs for
the making of -- it says exemplifications or official
documents, for the costs of making copies of any
materials obtained for use in the case.
Now, if you're going to make a copy for use
of the case of something in Japanese, you're going to
have to turn it into English. So, they included that as
part of the cost of making copies of the material ­ of a
document for use in the case. Now -- which is
discretionary as to whether you do or whether you don't.
But that's how several courts did read it. I'm just
wondering as that didn't strike me as so obviously
wrong. Maybe it's obviously --
MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, I mean, I suppose it
goes without saying that we'd rather win under
subsection (4) than lose under subsection (6). There
are --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm sure you'd like to win
on any subsection.
(Laughter.)
MR. HIMMELFARB: That's true, absolutely
true.
There are some courts that have suggested
that document translation fits under subsection (4). I
think those that have done so have tended to do it --
tended to do it before section (6) was added in 1978.
We haven't --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, the history
is that, prior to '78, a serious number -- some number
of circuits said you can get the translation paid for
under -- as -- as being necessary to create a copy
that's usable in court. All right. Then Congress
passes this, knowing of those cases in principle. And
then there is a shift after Congress passes this, and
then the majority of courts say, all right, this is the
provision that permits it. Is that an accurate
statement?
MR. HIMMELFARB: I think that is accurate.
Before 1978, some of the courts that taxed document
translation costs, I believe, also relied on their
inherent authority, which at the time was thought to be
a permissible ground for taxing costs.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there anything in the
history of the '78 statute which suggested that Congress
didn't want these taxed?
MR. HIMMELFARB: Absolutely not. There
is -- there's frankly nothing in the legislative history
of the Court Interpreters Act really that bears on this
issue one way or another. There's a lot of legislative
history on which Petitioner relies, but it's all
addressed to section 2, which is a separate provision
which deals with a separate subject, which is the
appointment of interpreters in cases initiated by the
United States.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, if there is no
legislative history, there's no legislative history on
the other side either, right? Saying that we -- we mean
this to include translation.
MR. HIMMELFARB: No, that's right. We
don't -- we --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, absent legislative
history, I guess we have to rely on the words of the
statute, right?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: That means you don't have
to look at this.
MR. HIMMELFARB: I guess I'd just go back to
where I started, which is that we think, under
dictionary definitions and under common usage, there are
two permissible meanings of "interpreter."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there are
two -- there may be two permissible, but you don't
dispute the fact that it is more natural and common to
speak of someone interpreting oral communication and
someone translating written, correct?
MR. HIMMELFARB: I don't -- I -- I think I
would dispute it. I don't know whether one is more
common than the other in any meaningful way. It may be
slightly more common to use it in its narrower sense to
refer to a member of a profession, but it's certainly
common enough that you have district judges from all
over the country in written opinion just sort of
matter-of-factly talking about the people who translate
documents as interpreters.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, how about in the U.S.
Code? Is there any place in the U.S. Code where the
word "interpreters" clearly encompasses written
translators?
MR. HIMMELFARB: I'm not aware of any.
There aren't -- there -- I frankly don't think there are
that many places in the United States Code where the
term "interpreter" is used other than in its sort of
obvious, narrow sense based on the context of the
statute. So, for example, a number of statutes talk
about funding translators and interpreters who are not
citizens of the United States. It seems to us that in
that context what Congress is getting at is the
interpreter and translator in the narrower sense of
members of a profession.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, in every other case in
which the U.S. Code uses the word, "interpreters" means
only oral translators, and that's the obvious way to use
the word, but in this case, we're supposed to reach a
different conclusion.
MR. HIMMELFARB: Justice Kagan, I would say
this: In every other provision of the United States
Code in which the "interpreter" -- the word
"interpreter" is used, either it's not clear whether it
includes document translation or the context is such
that it strongly indicates that it's limited to oral
translation. And neither of those situations obtains
here, in our view.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose somebody --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, just to phrase
your answer a different way, you're -- you don't know of
any situation in the U.S. Code where "translators" -- or
"interpreter" means "translator"?
MR. HIMMELFARB: I'm not aware of any other
provision in the United States Code.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you checked
every one; so, there is none, right?
(Laughter.)
MR. HIMMELFARB: There -- there is none
where it is clear that it covers document translation.
There are -- there are State statutes which we've cited
which use the term "interpreter" to -- to clearly cover
document translation, and we cite them in our brief.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose somebody did a
computer search in a database of, let's say, newspaper
articles, magazine articles for use of the term
"interpreter" in relationship to a foreign language.
And let's say you look at a thousand hits.
How many of those do you think would use the
term "interpreter" to refer to rendering a written
document from one language to another?
MR. HIMMELFARB: I think it -- I would not
be at all surprised if it was more than 50 percent of
the hits that used it in its narrower sense.
JUSTICE KAGAN: You're, like, daring Justice
Alito to go do this now.
(Laughter.)
MR. HIMMELFARB: However --
JUSTICE ALITO: How much would you bet?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE ALITO: If you bet me enough, I'll
look at a thousand. I'd be surprised if it's 2 percent.
MR. HIMMELFARB: I couldn't venture a guess,
and I would rather not bet you.
(Laughter.)
MR. HIMMELFARB: I do want to say something
about the concept of sight translation, which is
something that my friend Mr. Fried adverted to. Sight
translation is a hybrid endeavor. It is the oral
translation of written documents.
One of the reasons we think that the broader
meaning of "interpreter" makes more sense in section
1920 is that it can't really account in any sensible way
for sight translation. In this case, for example, our
counsel, Kan Pacific's counsel, took Taniguchi's
deposition, and to prepare for the deposition, he
reviewed -- he had to review some contracts which were
written in Japanese and some medical records which were
written in Japanese.
Now, under our view, having those documents
translated in writing to prepare for the deposition
would result in a potentially taxable cost. Under
Taniguchi's view, they wouldn't. But it sounds like
under either party's view, if instead of handing those
documents off to a document translator to have them
translated in writing, he had sat down in his law office
with a member of the interpreter profession and said
here's a box of documents; please, tell me what they
say, that would potentially be a taxable cost. That
seems to me to be a very odd result and one that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's an odd result
because nobody's going to do it, because at that point
you don't know who is going to get saddled with the
costs. So, it wouldn't be likely that you would do
something that would increase the costs, would it?
MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, I don't know that it
would increase the costs. It may be cheaper to use an
oral translator -- an oral translator as opposed to a
written document translator. And there might be a
variety of reasons why you would choose to use one or
another: time constraints, the importance of the
particular document, what have you. But I don't think
that it's likely that Congress would have thought that
the potential taxability of the translation --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it -- is it clear? Does
anybody contend, does the other side contend, that the
use of a viva voce translation outside of court is
covered by the meaning of "interpreter" here? I assume
that "interpretation" here meant interpretation in the
oral proceeding that is the trial.
And you're saying that if we hold against
you, interpretation will still include all oral
translations outside of the trial.
MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, I think every court
that's ever thought about this has found that
deposition -- oral translation at deposition --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, at deposition, which I
consider part of the -- part of the trial process, but
not -- not in the lawyer's office where he asks somebody
to sit down and -- and read this document to me.
MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, there's -- I don't
see any basis in the statute or, frankly, in the
practice of translators or interpreters for drawing that
line in that particular place.
And as far as the question where Taniguchi
would have the Court draw it is concerned, I think
that's a very hard question to answer, because he has
moved back and forth so many times on that. His briefs
offer several different -- several different narrow
definitions of "interpreter," sometimes saying it's the
oral translation of oral speech, sometimes saying it's
the oral translation of any language, whether it's oral
or written, sometimes saying it's limited to in-court
interpretation; sometimes it's saying it's not.
That, it seems to us, is a very good reason
for adopting the broader interpretation. It seems very
unlikely that Congress would want courts to get into
these extremely complicated and, frankly, unprincipled
line-drawing exercises.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't know,
Mr. Himmelfarb. I mean, why is this any -- any
different from any case in which we draw a line and we
find that the result of drawing a line is that we've
created some close cases, cases that are near the line.
So, you know, just to give you an obvious
example, the fact that there are some few minutes in
every 24-hour period where's it's hard to say that
something is night or day does not mean that there's not
night and that there's not day. And that seems to me
what the question is here. Yes, you can think up some
hard cases, but they're just that; they're marginal
cases.
MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, I think -- I think
line drawing is sometimes a necessary exercise because
the text of the statute compels you to do it. Our
submission is that the text of this statute doesn't
compel it, because you've got a readily available
alternative interpretation which doesn't require any
sorts of these line drawings.
And as far as whether this is sort of a --
an outlying -- the examples I give are outlying oddball
circumstances goes, I don't think they are. Sight
translation, for example, is a core function of
interpreters and translators alike.
And I guess the only other point I would
say -- make about sight translation, my friend Mr. Fried
suggested that that -- that is something that could only
be covered if it takes place during the course of live
proceedings, which I think is -- is yet another
narrowing of the word "interpreter." But as far as I'm
aware, most sight translation -- little, if any, sight
translation actually occurs during the course --
JUSTICE BREYER: I accept -- I accept the
following, that there was a history basically giving --
doing what you want before the statute, but the
statute -- nobody thought what it was going to do that
history. That statute is capable of being translated,
but it isn't the most natural thing.
And so, the question is, do we take -- go
with the smaller capability, saying leave -- leave well
enough alone, or do we say, gee, that's just too hard to
translate it that -- to interpret the statute that way?
Have you got any other example in the law?
I mean, can you think of an example in the law which
I've been trying to think of where there was a history
of doing something? A statute comes along that makes it
a little tougher for the judges to do it, and then the
Court says either, sorry, too tough now, or it says let
sleeping dogs lie.
MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, I think -- I mean, I
think it's an important point. And this goes to the
question of, you know, whether it's difficult for
district courts to make a determination of whether a
particular document translation should be taxed, which
is one of the arguments on the other side. I think the
history of this is strong evidence that it's not
difficult.
Courts have been doing this, certainly,
since 1978 when this provision was added and even before
then. And they haven't had any evident difficulty in
deciding whether to tax documents in its document
translation, and if so, how much. So, I think the --
the history certainly bears on the case in that respect.
A word --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Justice Breyer is
asking, can you think of an example where words are not
on their face plain, and the Court has looked to the
practices that have been imbued into that word and said
-- and we've decided that they will be accepted in the
way that practice has given them meaning?
MR. HIMMELFARB: I can't think of any case
off the top of my head, and I think it's true that this
case is a little bit different because, insofar as
courts were taxing document translation costs before
1978, they were relying on something other than the word
"interpreter." So, it may be a stretch to say that when
Congress chose to use the word "interpreter," it was
necessarily incorporating what courts had previously
done.
But I don't think it's entirely irrelevant
that this has been done for a long time, and I think
it's not unfair to presume that Congress would have been
aware of that.
The Court Interpreters Act has two main
provisions as relevant here. There's section 2, which
is really the more -- the main provision, and then
section 7, which became 1920(6) in Title 28, which is
the provision at issue here.
An important part of Taniguchi's submission
is that section 2 is limited to oral translators, and,
therefore, it should follow that section 7, the
provision at issue here, is likewise limited to oral
translators.
And our main submission on that -- on that
question is that Congress actually used different
language in section 2 and section 7. Section 2 added
two provisions to Title 28: section 1827 and section
1828, which are titled, and which address, respectively,
"Interpreters in courts of the United States" and
"Special interpretation services."
In section 7, which added subsection (6) to
1920, Congress does not use those two phrases. Instead,
it uses the phrase "interpreters" simply, not
"interpreters in courts of the United States," and then
"special interpretation services."
So, to the extent that there is any
appropriate canon about the use of similar or different
language in different provisions of a statute, it seems
to us that the appropriate canon is that one should
presume that when Congress uses different language, it
intends different meanings.
I do want to respond to Mr. Fried's point
about the number of times the word "interpreter" is used
in section 2. And as I understand his point, is that --
it's that it's much more frequently used by itself than
it is with the -- with the words "in courts of the
United States."
What the statute actually does is add -- say
that it's adding section 1827, which it calls
"Interpreters in courts of the United States." It then
has a subsection that says that the Administrative
Office of the United States Courts has to establish a
program to facilitate the use of interpreters in courts
of the United States.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where are you
reading from?
MR. HIMMELFARB: I'm sorry. This is the red
brief, 1a of the appendix, which is the very beginning
of the Court Interpreters Act. And then there's
subsection (c), flipping over to the next page -- I'm
sorry -- subsection (b), which says that the director
has to certify interpreters in courts of the United
States.
So, what it does at the beginning of the
statute is establish this thing called a certified
interpreter in courts of the United States. When it
thereafter speaks of "interpreter" simply, that's just a
shorthand for a certified interpreter in courts of the
United States. So, it seems to us that as far as the
Court Interpreters Act is concerned, even if it's true
that section 2 uses the term in the narrower sense, it
doesn't necessarily follow that it's used in the
narrower sense in section 7.
And the only point I would add about that,
as we set -- point out in our brief, it's really not
clear that section 2 is limited to oral translators.
Soon after the Court Interpreters Act was
enacted and for approximately 16 years thereafter, the
Administrative Office would publish these notices in the
Federal Register notifying the public that there were
going to be certification exams for interpreters under
section 2 of the Court Interpreters Act. These were
pretty streamlined notices, not long at all.
And one of the main aspects, the main
sections, of the notice, was a list of what the director
of the Administrative Office said were the -- were the
duties of interpreters in courts of the United States.
And to be sure, it listed simultaneous and consecutive
interpreting, but it -- it listed sight translation, and
it listed document translation.
So, at a minimum, section 2 is not
sufficiently clearly limited to oral translators, that
the director of the Administrative Office couldn't issue
these notices saying otherwise.
I guess the -- the last point I would -- I
want to make about other statutes, some of which use the
term "interpreter" and "translator" together, I've
already addressed that in part by saying that in many of
those statutes, it really is pretty clearly used in the
narrower sense because you're talking about members of a
profession.
The -- the only other thing I would say
about that is that the premise of Taniguchi's reliance
on those statutes seems to be that it would be strangely
redundant for Congress to speak in other statutes about
interpreters and translators together, if, in fact, the
two terms could be used interchangeably, and that
redundancy should be avoided.
But subsection (6) of 1920 itself has a
redundancy in it because it covers both interpreters and
special interpretation services. And I don't think
anybody could dispute that anyone who carries out a
special interpretation service is an interpreter.
So, it's not at all odd to have redundancy
when Congress is addressing the subject of translation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Fried, you have 5 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL S. FRIED
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FRIED: Very briefly, Your Honor, three
points.
In the first place, Justice Breyer, I just
wanted to let you know that the first decision -- the
first appellate decision construing 1920(6) to encompass
document translation was the D.C. Circuit's decision in
Quy in 1981.
Second, Mr. Himmelfarb noted that Black's
Law Dictionary takes a definition that arguably could
encompass document translation, but he didn't mention
that the -- that the operative version of Black's in
1978 when this statute was passed did not -- was a
different definition that excluded document translation.
And this change in the definition occurred
in 1999, in the seventh edition, after a number of these
judicial decisions construing 1920(6) had already come
down, which supports Your Honor's observation that it
could very well merely reflect a recognition of these
decisions, rather than independent support for them.
Finally, Your Honors, Mr. Himmelfarb cited
certain notices issued by the Administrative Office from
many years ago. These brief notices were ministerial
documents that simply announced a forthcoming
examination. The office has issued the Guide to
Judiciary Policy, which is the -- which is the fully
expressed views on this issue and is posted on the
office's Web site. It's current as of June 9th, 2011,
and expressly provides that document translation is not
a part of the statutory services of an interpreter.
If there are further questions, I'd be happy
to address them.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:11 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
52:5 adverted 40:9 21:2 available 43:23 30:15,19 51:3
31:5 afford 3:16 36:10 award 18:22 borne 27:15
36:3 aggregate 6:15 approach 7:21 20:17 box 41:4
23:20 appropriate 20:19,21,22,24 Breyer 7:11
40:14 alike 44:5 9:18 20:16 37:21 22:13,17 23:7
38:20 39:10,22 49:4 46:14 35:25 36:22
allowance 31:12 arguably 51:4 50:23
46:15 aloud 10:9 11:8 17:19 b 25:9 48:12 15:16 21:15
49:3 alternative argued 17:12 back 7:22,22 25:3,10 39:9
43:24 arguing 22:19 14:13 21:5 48:9 49:1
11:25 16:25 2:2,5,8 3:3,7 42:19 briefly 50:21
47:2,7 28:14 21:25 23:24 background bring 19:4,6
amount 5:17 34:6 50:19 balance 26:2 30:18
52:1 answer 6:5,24 articles 39:12,12 37:25 26:12 27:7
9:8 36:8 38:22 42:18 29:21 33:12 basically 44:15 brought 8:9
ante 19:5 21:5 45:22 basis 42:13 25:2
8:3 9:10 anyone's 20:14 assigned 23:25 36:5 45:19 burdensome
24:19 apologize 11:14 association 15:3 begging 27:20 20:25
50:16 13:4 21:11 beginning 48:9
25:11 1:14 attorney's 29:6 3:8 26:7 50:20 call 26:19 33:21
49:5,12 appears 15:15 AT&T 14:2 believe 35:22 called 48:16
51:16 25:3 audience 10:9 best 7:25 30:1 calls 47:25
6:13 8:20 11:15 26:3,9 37:13 32:19 cost 9:3,5 15:10
14:2 31:10 32:12 Commonwealth consecutive 3:16 18:19 24:5
17:13,20 37:3 38:21 7:15 49:14 27:14 31:11
19:3,7 39:2 41:7 48:6 communicated consider 7:2 32:9,22 34:15
50:17 52:2 10:10 42:9 40:23 41:5
25:24 choose 41:16 communicating considered 6:12 costs 15:7 18:6,9
chose 46:8 11:8 16:6,12 consist 21:10 28:15,17 29:4
30:4,5 Circuit 8:22 communication consistent 6:16 29:5,8,9,16
32:10,20 34:7 3:14 11:24 9:3 31:14,24 32:3
circuits 35:12 12:15 13:12 constitute 10:24 32:5,7,16,16
40:15 Circuit's 51:1 14:8 15:11,19 11:6 16:5 32:17,19 33:7
45:19 circumstances 25:25 37:6 constitutional 34:8,10 35:22
52:3,4 21:14 28:16 compel 43:23 8:10 35:24 41:10,11
19:2 cite 39:9 compensable 41:17 counsel 40:16,16
21:19 cited 23:7 39:7 10:21 construction 50:17 52:2
25:2,6 51:15 complicated 6:11 counting 24:14
34:3 citizens 38:3 43:4 construing country 7:12
36:10 civil 8:16 33:20 components 14:10,11 23:3 37:14
claim 19:22 33:23 50:25 51:11 course 5:2 10:10
class 8:7,12,15 concept 28:17 24:13 44:13
25:13,15 27:25 42:17 48:21 context 9:8 9:1 10:1,14,21
20:15 37:19 39:8 25:24 38:11 28:11 37:25 17:6 18:8,19
24:16 49:18,25 confirms 9:14 38:4,16 18:22 19:2,17
45:14,19 close 43:10 Confrontation contract 10:2 20:8 22:1,22
37:18,23 38:8 Congress 8:12 contracts 40:18 27:12,15 28:4
coherent 8:1 14:15 15:1,7 controlled 32:8 31:16 33:21
come 33:17 28:10 31:8 conversation 41:23 42:5,17
comes 9:1 31:19 36:1 38:4 copies 34:10,15 48:10,21 49:3
common 5:4 47:16 50:6,16 core 8:12 44:4 16:9,13,19
decisions 51:11 20:16 28:18 10:2,3,14,17 45:4
18:17 51:14 different 12:9 10:23 11:16 elected 8:13,16
24:6,24 defend 34:6 16:9 23:25 12:9 13:16 element 31:24
defendants 8:11 24:1,3 25:20 16:23 19:15 elements 16:20
32:9 19:25 25:20 38:11,22 20:18,22,24 eliminate 19:1
35:5,17 defense 21:13 42:20,20 43:8 21:3 32:10,17 embrace 27:21
43:3 30:22 46:4 47:1,13 32:19,24 34:1 embracing
46:5,9 defines 13:19 47:14,16,17 34:16 35:6,21 25:22
definition 14:4,6 51:8 38:16 39:6,9 enacted 23:14
20:14 26:14 differentiate 39:17 41:1,15 34:1 49:4
49:13 27:7 30:17,18 13:9 41:18 42:11 encompass
definitional 9:15 49:16 51:1,5,8 encompasses
41:24 42:21 diligent 10:13 18:20 28:19 11:10,19,19
definitive 17:19 direction 18:8 31:20 32:23,25 30:14 34:14
18:11 director 48:12 40:11,21 41:1 18:20
25:5 33:23 20:6 duties 25:12 establish 48:3
17:10 30:14,15 20:2,25 22:22 effect 19:1,5 51:19
31:6,6,9 37:1 37:13 45:9 either 3:25 4:1 example 7:12
43:12 fair 18:22 forthcoming generally 9:16 heading 33:2
fairly 5:19 51:18 12:10 28:15 headings 32:22
fall 19:16 found 42:6 generically 13:6hear 3:3 22:3
29:5 30:9 37:22 42:13 GINSBURG 12:25
February 1:9 14:8 19:18 43:11 44:2 27:25 29:1,12
7:14 9:1 22:5 Fried 1:15 2:3,9 46:1 31:3,5,25
49:6 4:13,22 5:2,13 go 7:14,17,22,22 33:15 34:21
43:20 fees 5:11,19 8:24 7:8,24 9:6 10:5 39:22 44:20 36:16,24 37:8
29:10 felt 8:23 16:1,4,10,14 going 10:13,16 43:19 45:6
Finally 51:15 18:24 20:15 34:13 41:8,9 history 4:14
43:9 23:19 24:23 43:1 36:19 44:15,18
22:17,20 27:10 50:18,19,21 25:3 hits 39:14,20
21:23 34:7 50:23,24 friend 40:9 44:7 granted 6:22 Honor 4:11,22
47:12 fits 35:6 function 25:14 22:8 27:5 7:8,24 10:5,19
fundamentally guess 11:2 19:19 13:4,21 16:1,4
48:23 26:1 32:25 49:21 20:15 21:2,20
follows 29:13,13 23:3,6,9,15,19
10:16 foreign 26:17 G 3:1 handing 40:25 Honors 51:15
20:21 32:22 39:13 Garner 31:4 happy 4:1 51:25 Honor's 51:12
23:24 form 11:24 gee 44:22 hard 42:18 House 15:7
43:12 forms 9:22 general 19:17 43:13,17 44:22 housekeeping
forth 42:19 21:19 head 46:3 4:16
inserted 4:15 32:16 33:8,13 J
28:2 25:16 40:13 41:3,24 Johnson's 7:4 29:21,25 30:8
interact 8:6 3:15 15:11 Judiciary 51:20 keeping 25:13
45:7 12:8 13:3 24:6,8,20 25:2 Justice 3:3,9,18 12:4,20,23
26:15 50:8 25:8,16 36:5 3:22 4:5,12,20 17:14,21 18:3
interested 21:10 38:2,8 42:14 6:5,20 7:3,11 key 11:6
42:3 6:16,18 9:21 50:7,11 13:18,22 14:13 30:12 31:17
20:17 28:13 29:15 37:6 22:4,10,13,17 Kouichi 1:3 3:4
42:25 43:2,24 interpretive 23:7,11,16,18 L
28:22,23 11:17 29:8,21,25 15:3 19:10
3:16,25 5:5 involved 18:21 31:4,10 32:12 25:18 26:13,17
10:4,9,13,17 42:24 34:25 35:10,25 30:15 32:22
15:22,23 16:6 issue 11:18 38:12,20,21 languages 5:6
25:19,21 26:10 49:19 51:21 41:7,21 42:8 18:13 19:16,21
20:20 49:16 manner 8:18 2:3,9 3:7 50:19 need 25:5 31:19
32:1,3,4 lists 3:11 13:8 middle 29:17 neither 38:18
10:6 11:23 market 20:12 ministerial newspaper
13:25 litigant 19:4,6 material 34:15 minor 18:5 night 43:14,15
35:2 litigating 29:10materials 34:11 minutes 43:12 nobody's 41:8
39:4,23 litigation 8:16 matter 1:11 12:5 50:18 non-core 8:15
27:11 31:12 12:11 52:5 misunderstood normal 31:12
41:2 44:12 45:3 MCI 14:1,2 15:15 notes 24:5
51:4
mean 8:22 11:3 months 20:4 notice 49:11
32:23 44:9 14:18 17:19 moved 42:19 49:20 51:16,17
39:14 40:3 meaning 5:5,14 narrow 13:11 38:1 47:19
looks 10:17 14:8 13:10,11 14:6 37:25 42:20 numbers 7:13
31:21 34:23 26:12,24 40:13 26:22,24 27:1 O
13:11,14 38:8,24 44:19 38:9 43:11
25:25 M meant 21:8 near 20:18 obviously 28:1
42:24 madam 7:5 41:25 43:10 30:3 34:19,20
49:2 magazine 39:12 medical 40:19 necessarily 7:15 occurred 10:20
main 46:15,17 member 26:24 18:16 31:15 51:9
46:9 occurrences
17:2 27:6 50:1 necessary 20:24 occurs 10:8 12:2
27:14 34:9,10 merely 51:13 necessity 20:23 oddball 44:2
17:16 P 3:1 perfect 8:6 possible 26:10 principle 29:4,7
41:2 Pacific 1:6 3:4 period 5:11 28:7 30:6,6 29:20,22 35:15
48:3 7:9 24:2,9 21:17 26:20,21 possibly 28:1 principles 19:17
Pacific's 13:13 43:13 posted 51:21 prior 9:7 28:20
14:4 23:24 permissible potential 41:20 35:11
51:22 page 2:2 15:15 permissibly 20:5 problem 19:20
pages 31:20 35:18 32:2 40:23 21:2
29:2,10 34:15 1:16 2:4,10 3:8 42:14 46:1 10:11 12:3
5:6 45:10 pinpoint 22:16 preparation process 42:9
11:23 particularly place 37:18 10:18 profession 26:25
20:3 21:1 31:15 42:15 44:9 preparatory 37:12 38:6
32:3,4 parties 16:7 50:23 10:20 41:3 50:2
37:6 38:9 24:20 27:12,14 places 25:20 prepare 40:17 professional
40:10 parts 24:1 37:23 40:22 6:14 10:5 15:2
42:1 party 8:18 16:22 plain 21:23,24 preparing 18:19 professors 21:11
27:15 28:15,24 45:23 presence 10:9 program 48:4
46:21 29:10 plainly 15:1 16:22 provides 25:4
49:2,18 party's 40:25 19:14 presented 6:25 30:17 51:23
passed 9:20 15:5 please 3:10 26:9 presumably provision 4:14
16:20 51:7 point 11:21,25 presume 46:13 14:14 15:10
25:13 passes 35:15,16 12:21,23 13:9 47:16 24:5 25:1 33:8
patent 20:10,11 19:23 20:8 presumed 31:7 33:19 34:8
16:13 Peace 26:18 50:22 prevent 18:11 8:2,5 14:25
42:4 people 7:16 13:7 police 20:24 previously 46:9 15:5 24:19
30:14 37:15 policy 19:9,12 4:17 15:9 46:16 47:3,14
reason 4:16 6:3 32:24 46:16 15:8,9,10 47:25 48:22,24
remaining 50:18 S 1:15 2:1,3,9 sense 8:6 26:23
19:14 23:20 rendering 12:8 Saipan 1:6 3:5 33:24 37:11,25
12:19 41:16 Report 15:7 sat 41:2 40:13 48:22,24
16:24 REBUTTAL request 14:11 satisfies 16:20 50:1
19:12 2:8 50:19 require 43:24 saying 3:19 sensible 19:12
22:3 27:7 recall 13:19 reserve 26:2 21:22 28:1,6 40:14
29:2 received 15:2 respect 15:5,6 34:22 36:14 sentence 33:19
42:16,18 recognition 16:25 45:19 42:2,21,22,24 separate 4:15
44:20 51:13 respectively 42:25 44:21 36:8,9
47:1 recognized 10:7 47:4 49:20,24 serious 35:11
51:25 33:22 Respondent 21:3 26:19 services 3:17,25
20:25 4:8 restricted 17:11 34:9 45:4,4 19:15,21 25:5
reconstruct 21:5 result 17:23 48:2,12 25:21 47:6,11
17:22 50:9,11,15 9:9 42:8 shift 35:16
34:18 redundant 50:6 right 6:6 23:14 Scalia's 30:13 shorthand 48:19
refer 9:13 37:12 27:17 31:2 scientific 28:21 side 21:10 29:18
14:4 16:3 31:1 39:3 25:11 29:18 45:11
23:23 reflect 51:13 risk-averse 19:6 search 39:11 sides 31:16
48:7 reflects 27:13,17 ROBERTS 3:3 Second 51:3 sight 10:6,7 12:2
33:1 rejected 14:15 38:21 39:2 27:13 33:6 sign 21:16
40:14 relationship 41:7 48:6 35:8 36:8 significance 9:9
49:1,25 39:13 50:17 52:2 40:13 46:16,18 33:2
15:4,21 16:2,8 38:3,13 39:1 25:1 33:16 takes 44:9 51:4
24:15 45:21 48:20 49:13 48:11,12 50:10 talking 12:5,8
sounds 40:24 statute 3:24 6:16 subsections 25:9 12:25 20:6
48:18 Southern 20:1 8:1,8 9:20,20 33:16 37:15 50:1
speak 11:9 37:6 15:14 17:22 substantial tandem 33:19
49:14 speaking 11:8 23:14 24:1 substantive 3:4 42:16
speaks 10:9 29:16 36:1,20 suddenly 31:13 40:16,24 46:20
special 47:6,11 43:21,22 44:16 32:23 tax 29:5 32:9,20
38:23 species 10:8 38:1 39:7 suggesting 4:7 taxation 28:17
39:10 3:24 4:3 6:18 stretch 46:7 supposed 38:10 21:15
6:18 8:11,13 strike 34:19 Supreme 1:1,12 tended 35:7,8
12:17 13:11 strong 45:12 sure 3:18 6:24 33:18 37:24
16:19 17:5,8 structural 23:20 17:18 22:8,15 48:22 49:23
14:22 spring 30:21 sub 33:14 49:14 9:23 14:3
24:23 stake 21:13 subject 8:4 36:9 surprised 39:19 19:10 26:14
48:8,12 standard 21:1 50:16 40:3 50:8
29:14 start 30:4 submission 27:5 22:5 testimony 12:6
37:14,24 started 36:25 30:5 43:22 13:1
State 25:16 39:7 46:20,25 T text 6:4 14:18,18
4:5,12,20 States 1:1,12 52:5 21:16 23:8 textual 3:23
5:3,14,23 24:7,25 25:8 subsection 31:6 44:20 23:22
14:13,19 36:11 37:23 15:14,15 24:21 taken 18:7 30:25 Thank 26:3,8
52:2 times 42:19 51:1,5,8,23 unfair 18:6 vast 7:13 17:2
31:13 title 24:14 46:18 21:2 42:4 uniform 6:13 version 9:8
48:16 47:3 translator 12:7 8:2,3 29:16 51:6
titled 47:4 13:1 26:14,19 uniformly 10:7 vested 18:1
5:9,21 tough 45:4 41:14,14,15 36:11 37:23 38:19 40:21,24
6:2,21 7:8 tougher 45:3 49:23 38:3,13 39:1 40:25
8:21
11:22 Trans 26:20 21:12 37:20 48:1,3,5,13,17 30:13
15:13 10:14 12:14 42:14 44:5 unprincipled Virtually 5:10
13:2,5,8 37:15 46:21,24 49:2 43:4 viva 41:23
49:18 50:7 unsupported voce 41:23
22:6,11 translated 7:14 tremendous 24:2
25:23 9:2 19:25 21:4 21:17,21 unsure 29:18 W
29:5,12 21:7 26:17 trial 10:18 17:12 unusual 17:1
30:3
40:22 32:2 42:1,4,9 usable 35:14 40:7 43:3
31:7,19 41:2 44:18 trials 19:23 usage 12:5,11 44:16 47:18
34:5 35:7 translates 10:18 true 11:5 12:4 24:17 30:9 49:22
36:25 11:17 26:13 29:11,13 31:3 37:1
39:15
40:12 19:11 32:10,22 33:10 35:3,4 use 12:6 13:1,5,8 War 26:18
42:5,17 37:7 46:3 48:21 24:10,15,19 Washington 1:8
translation 4:4 trying 9:4 21:5 25:2,7 31:1
6:17 45:1 33:7,9,14,17 wasn't 12:20
9:3,11,12 10:7 Tuesday 1:9 34:11,12,16 23:2
46:2,3 10:16 11:4 turn 34:14 37:11 38:9 way 3:25 4:6 8:5
50:12 12:7,10 13:16 turned 33:1 39:8,12,15 17:13,20,22
23:11,12 19:15 20:3,9 33:6 37:2,4,4 48:4 49:22 29:7,14 31:15
32:18 20:19,22,24 46:15 47:3,8 uses 24:6,7,15 31:21 32:7,20
41:19 26:25 27:4,11 50:8 38:8 47:9,16 32:21 33:3
44:17 28:3 32:3,5,17 typically 11:23 48:22 36:6 37:10
34:2,3 35:6,12 usually 5:25 44:23 46:1
40:11,15 41:20 understand 3:19 13:18 30:12
22:12 42:23 44:4,7 47:20 v 1:5 3:4 14:2 went 8:22 20:4
26:2 44:12,13 45:10 understanding variable 31:23 weren't 6:25
41:17 45:18 46:5 8:11 variety 25:23 We'll 3:3
49:15,16 50:16 undisputed 15:9 41:16 we're 12:8,25
18:5 37:14,19 39:16 2011 51:22
23:11,12 40:11,19,20 2012 1:9
41:15 42:24 21 1:9
30:15 24-hour 43:13
43:9 X 26 2:7 24:13,15
x 1:2,7 28 3:13 46:18
40s 22:25
25:9 48:9 43(d) 15:8
31:20 43(d)'s 15:10
1:4 3:4 43(f) 15:8
14:11,11
1:13 3:2
20:7 5
52:4
24:7,14
49:4 5 50:18
25:19
23:8 5a 15:15
31:2
24:4,13,20 50 2:10 39:19
37:19
50s 23:1
24:4 47:4 54 33:19
45:20,24
29:17
47:19 6
27:13 33:6
47:8
31:23 35:8 47:7
45:22 50:10
3:13
60 20:11
6:11 8:17
25:25
10:20,21 7
50:25
15:23 7 24:4,7 46:18
20:3 46:22 47:2,7
22:23
48:24
23:15,16
45:15
70-year 5:10
51:7
51:2
51:10
41:10 2 9
36:8 40:3
12:15 47:2,20 48:22
27:3 49:2,8,17
34:1 37:7 2a 25:3
