IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
LUIS MARIANO MARTINEZ, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 10-1001
CHARLES L. RYAN, DIRECTOR, ARIZONA:
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 4, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ROBERT D. BARTELS, ESQ., Tempe, Arizona; for
Petitioner.
KENT E. CATTANI, ESQ., Chief Counsel, Criminal Appeals,
Phoenix, Arizona; for Respondent.
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ROBERT D. BARTELS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
KENT E. CATTANI, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, 44
as amicus curiae, supporting Respondent
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ROBERT D. BARTELS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear case
next in Case 10-1001, Martinez v. Ryan.
Mr. Bartels.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT D. BARTELS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BARTELS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In Arizona, almost all State and Federal
claims for relief from a criminal conviction are
raisable in the Arizona Court of Appeals on direct
appeal.
However, a claim that trial counsel was
ineffective must be presented first to a trial court in
what Arizona labels a postconviction relief proceeding.
Petitioner agrees entirely with Arizona's
requirement that ineffective assistance of trial counsel
claims go initially to a trial court, and he does not
object to the label "postconviction relief" as such.
The issue in the case has to do with
Arizona's insistence that Petitioner had no right to
counsel with respect to the postconviction first-tier
review, portion of first-tier review, even though he did
have a right to counsel in the appeal portion of direct
review.
And our position is that that distinction
between what are two portions of the first opportunity
for review of a conviction, broken up sensibly but by
the dictate of the State into two parts, that that
distinction cannot stand, especially in a case in which
the first postconviction proceeding started and ended
before anything of substance --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if you --
MR. BARTELS: -- happened in the direct
appeal.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If your main position is
right, then wouldn't the same go for 2255 proceedings?
I mean, this Court has said it makes sense to have the
claims of ineffective assistance of counsel looked at by
a trial judge first, not an appellate judge. And yet in
2255 proceedings, if you're urging ineffective
assistance of counsel, you don't get an automatic right
to counsel. In 2255 proceedings, counsel will be
appointed only if the court determines that the
interests of justice so require. So, the proposition
you're urging would have ramifications in the Federal
system as well, wouldn't it?
MR. BARTELS: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so, 2255 would no
longer be the interests of justice so require because if
it's your first opportunity to raise the point, the
court must appoint counsel for you. That's your view?
MR. BARTELS: In a situation -- the Federal
system is a little more complicated than Arizona, though
not much, because of Massaro.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because of the what?
MR. BARTELS: Our position would be, in the
Federal system, if -- if a Federal defendant wished to
file a 2255, that he would be entitled to appointed
counsel but, as far as this case is concerned, only with
respect to any claim of ineffective assistance of trial
counsel.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you want us to hold that
there is a right to counsel whenever a petitioner
asserts a claim that could not have been asserted at an
earlier point in the proceedings?
MR. BARTELS: Yes, Your Honor, with the
caveat: If the State allows that kind of proceeding.
One of the things I have a hard time keeping track of in
this context is, unlike the right to counsel at trial,
the Sixth Amendment right, where I think they have to
give him a trial, we're dealing in a context where this
Court made clear well over 100 years ago that there
doesn't have to be any review at all. The State --
JUSTICE ALITO: That's a very far-reaching
proposition that extends well beyond claims of
ineffective assistance of counsel at trial, wouldn't it?
MR. BARTELS: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: If many years after someone
is convicted an allegation is made that the prosecution
failed to turn over exculpatory evidence and that the
information supporting the claim has just recently come
to light and could not have been previously discovered,
there would be a right to counsel there.
MR. BARTELS: If the State --
JUSTICE ALITO: That would be the case?
MR. BARTELS: If the State provided that
proceeding, that -- and the State would not have to.
The State could have statutes of limitation or rules
against successive petitions that could be extremely
strict if they're concerned about that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why would it be
successive if it could not have been raised earlier?
MR. BARTELS: Your Honor, as I understand
the situation, we've got newly discovered evidence of
perhaps a Brady violation. In that situation, if the
State provides a proceeding for review of that, and it
is the first opportunity for review, I think the
implication of Douglas and Halbert is there would be a
right to counsel.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if the State doesn't,
but the Federal government does? I mean, what if you
say, you know, there's no State habeas available; you go
straight to Federal habeas?
MR. BARTELS: I think that's correct, Your
Honor. In the Federal system --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you haven't really given
us a solution for the States. They can't -- they can't
stop this thing. Right?
MR. BARTELS: Well, but the Federal system
itself has a statute of limitation, though I believe
that the statute would probably begin to run, in Justice
Alito's hypothetical, with the discovery of a Brady
violation. And so, the Federal courts have set up the
statute of limitation to accommodate that claim. And
the States would be free to do that, too, if they
wished.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If -- if you are
permitted this counsel to raise a claim that could not
have been raised on the direct appeal, is the counsel
limited to that point, or can the counsel representing
the client bring up other things?
MR. BARTELS: No, Your Honor. The right to
counsel would apply only to the first-tier review issue.
And so, for example, if counsel finds other issues and
wants to pursue them, the State could say: We're not
going to pay you for those.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But could it be that the
counsel could also bring up a Brady claim, newly
discovered evidence? So wouldn't be limited to
ineffective assistance of counsel.
MR. BARTELS: The holding in this case will
be so limited, but I would agree that Douglas and
Halbert would imply that Brady would -- at least many
Brady claims would be such that the 2255 or the State
postconviction would be the first opportunity --
JUSTICE ALITO: What if the --
MR. BARTELS: -- to present.
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm sorry. What if the
ineffective assistance of counsel claim is closely
related to other claims that petitioner wants to raise
in an initial postconviction relief proceeding? Counsel
at trial was ineffective for failing to do A, B, C, and
D, and all of those are bases for relief. And now I
want to argue with new counsel in the first
postconviction proceeding not only that counsel was
ineffective at trial but also that all of these other
claims are meritorious.
Are you saying that the counsel that -- to
whom the Petitioner has a right is limited to making
only the ineffective assistance of counsel claim and
cannot go on and represent the petitioner on these other
claims?
MR. BARTELS: I'm saying, Your Honor, that
the State does not have any duty to pay the lawyer in
those circumstances.
Now, the kind of situation you're talking
about I think is most likely to come up where --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's not a question of
pay. I think Justice Alito was asking, counsel says:
I've got a duty to represent my client zealously. So, I
want to bring up not only ineffective assistance of
counsel but these other matters.
MR. BARTELS: Your Honor, I think the
appointment could be limited to the first-tier review
issues.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. I don't
-- I don't understand how that works. The claim is,
say, for example, you were ineffective because you
didn't raise a Batson claim. Surely, he gets to pursue
the Batson claim once he establishes ineffectiveness --
MR. BARTELS: Yes, Your Honor, and, in fact,
in that example, pursuing the ineffective assistance
claim requires pursuing the Batson claim.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- so, the
lawyer -- the State would be required to provide counsel
not simply to raise the threshold ineffectiveness
argument, but to go ahead and raise the arguments as to
which he was ineffective.
MR. BARTELS: Well, Your Honor, in the
situation in which the ineffectiveness of counsel is
based on the failure to make a Batson claim, the failure
to make an objection at trial, I would agree with you,
absolutely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But what --
MR. BARTELS: In my experience --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about other claims
that -- that don't follow on? I mean, other -- other
claimed errors in the trial. You say the State doesn't
have to pay for that representation. Does counsel keep
time sheets on --
MR. BARTELS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- on the various issues,
12-minute intervals?
MR. BARTELS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the State pays for some
issues and not for other issues?
MR. BARTELS: Absolutely, Your Honor. That
happens routinely in the State system. The appointed
counsel have to submit detailed billing statements --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How does this work now,
counsel? How are you proposing this work? Right now,
in the Federal system, a pro se litigant comes in and
says, I have an ineffective assistance of counsel claim.
Most district courts say, ask the attorney to submit an
affidavit, and then decides whether on the face of the
claims there is reason to appoint counsel and hold a
hearing. Under your theory, every State would be
obligated to appoint counsel ab initio to check out
whether there is the potential for an IAC claim?
MR. BARTELS: Well, I think the States could
run this in different ways. The way in which Arizona
does it makes sense to me, which is that the -- there is
a form, Form 24(b). It's a very simple form. It
doesn't require stating any substantive grounds. It
really just says, I would like to challenge my
conviction through postconviction relief, in the very
same way that notices of appeal.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what you are
essentially saying, every State is obligated to appoint
an attorney on the first leg?
MR. BARTELS: Every State is obligated to
treat these, what are really parts of the appeal, the
initial appeal, in the same way they do the rest of
the appeal.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, there is a huge
reliance interest that has developed since Finley and
its progeny, and States don't routinely appoint
postconviction counsel.
MR. BARTELS: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What are we going to do
about that reliance interest and the burdens on States?
MR. BARTELS: Well, Your Honor, I -- I guess
I would say two things about that. One, there are a
fair number of States that do appoint counsel routinely
upon request.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I know --
MR. BARTELS: Arizona is one.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know for a fact that
most do in capital cases. But I don't know if that's
the same figure for non-capital cases.
MR. BARTELS: I don't know the percentage,
Your Honor, but I know there are several States. And --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't understand. Could
you answer the original question that Justice Sotomayor
asked? She said: What happens in Arizona? You said a
prisoner, or defendant, he has been convicted, gone
through his first round of appeal. He is given a form,
which you said is a simple form: Do you want to proceed
in collateral review? And he answers yes. Then does
Arizona appoint a lawyer or not?
MR. BARTELS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Then what are
we arguing about? He had his lawyer.
MR. BARTELS: He didn't have an effective
lawyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Ah. So, now you're talking
about the second round. You're talking about does he
have a right to a lawyer when he wants to claim that the
first lawyer that they gave him on collateral review was
ineffective?
MR. BARTELS: No, Your Honor, that is not
the issue in this case.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the issue?
MR. BARTELS: The issue in this case is
whether the ineffectiveness of the first postconviction
counsel --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. BARTELS: -- constitutes cause to
excuse --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, why --
that's what I thought, actually. And I don't understand
what all the briefs are about, and I must be missing
something, about whether they're all going to have to
appoint lawyers or not in these different States. It
seems to me that has nothing to do with this case.
This case comes out of a State that does
appoint lawyers, and the question is whether you, your
client, should have from your point of view at least one
full, effective chance to say: Every lawyer I have been
appointed, I've gotten 100, and they are all terrible.
And -- or whether the State can block that from being
heard in habeas, by saying, oh, no, we gave him 19, and
the claim that all 19 were ineffective he can't even
raise. That's the issue; is that it?
MR. BARTELS: Well, Your Honor, we're
actually, once we take it past two, I -- I'm not on
board with the hypothetical.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no. But I'm not --
I'm not ridiculing as it sounded your claim. I'm saying
maybe that's right. Maybe he's not going to win the
claim, probably. But the question is, if his claim is
in Federal habeas, I have gotten 102 lawyers in 102
proceedings and every one of them was absolutely
ineffective, perhaps that habeas judge has to look at it
and say, oh, I see, he's claiming he's never had one
full effective chance to claim that his trial lawyer was
ineffective because the other 19 were just as bad. I
have to look at it if I'm a trial judge.
Now, that's not a silly argument in my
opinion; that could be a winning argument. I just want
to know is that basically your argument?
MR. BARTELS: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MR. BARTELS: That's not my argument.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now let's start at ground
zero. Sorry. Everyone else --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE ALITO: Why isn't that where your
argument leads, to the proposition that you can never
procedurally default irrevocably an ineffective
assistance of counsel claim?
MR. BARTELS: Well, Your Honor, on a
theoretical level, I don't think this Court's decisions
in Douglas and Ross and Halbert give us a clear answer
about whether there's a right to effective assistance of
second postconviction counsel.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we want to know what
rule you're advocating in this case.
MR. BARTELS: I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We want to know why you're
not advocating for what Justice Breyer and Justice Alito
indicate is an endless right to claim that all previous
counsel were ineffective. You say, oh, no, you're not
arguing that. What is the rule that you are arguing
for? What limiting principle do you have so that we do
not have an endless right of counsel?
MR. BARTELS: Well, Your Honor, the -- the
theory that you get counsel for first-tier review limits
it to that first tier, because when you go after the
effectiveness of this -- of the first postconviction
counsel, that is necessarily going to involve review of
the effectiveness of trial counsel --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- I understand that.
But what is it that prevents the Petitioner from saying
that the first counsel in the collateral proceeding was
ineffective and that so was the second?
MR. BARTELS: Your Honor, I don't think
there's a right to a counsel and therefore not a right
to effective counsel in the second --
JUSTICE BREYER: But you can -- you can have
a -- you don't have to give him a counsel. Look, the
State did give him a counsel on first collateral review;
that counsel was supposed to, according to him, raise
the claim my trial counsel was no good.
Now we go to the next round. The State
says: I'm sorry, you are on your own here; we're not
giving you a lawyer anymore. Okay. That may count. He
now has to know he has to make the argument himself.
And, therefore, he goes and makes the argument himself,
and now he's in habeas and he can argue they got it all
wrong. He's not blocked.
MR. BARTELS: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, what --
there isn't an issue in this case about giving people
counsel, on that view. There is an issue about if you
do give them counsel, then they have to be able to have
an argument later that you did it ineffectively. That's
a different matter; that's a question of whether you're
blocked in habeas and can't even make the claim.
All right, forget it. I will ask the
other --
MR. BARTELS: Well, Your Honor, I think I'm
on the same page with that example.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, okay.
JUSTICE ALITO: But there can't be a
claim --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But can I -- can I leave
this argument with the -- with the judgment that you've
offered me no limiting principle on how many proceedings
there must be --
MR. BARTELS: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- before there's an end
to the argument that previous counsel were inadequate?
I understand, this is the -- in this case,
it was the first counsel in -- in the first collateral
proceeding that we're talking about. But why couldn't
it be the second? You don't give us a limiting
principle.
MR. BARTELS: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And if you want to say
there shouldn't be, then that's fine.
MR. BARTELS: No, Your Honor, there should
be. And the merits -- the Petitioner's merits brief
devoted quite a few pages to both the theoretical
problems with the infinite continuum of litigation and
the practical limitations.
And let me -- let me turn to the practical
ones.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Bartels, before you
do that, I mean, I understood you to be saying that you
would draw a line after the first postconviction
proceeding.
MR. BARTELS: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Is that correct?
MR. BARTELS: That's correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And the briefs go back and
forth as to whether that line -- you know, what lies
behind that line. But you would draw the line there?
MR. BARTELS: Yes, Your Honor,
theoretically. And the State has the wherewithal, given
McKane, to draw the line anywhere it pleases. It could
just say you get one postconviction.
JUSTICE ALITO: What I understand you to be
saying is exactly that. A line has to be drawn
somewhere. Enough is enough; it can't go on forever.
MR. BARTELS: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: And the sensible place to
draw the line, in your view, is after the first-tier
review. That's your argument, right?
MR. BARTELS: Yes, Your Honor, because I --
JUSTICE ALITO: But the problem with that is
that you can answer that by saying, yes, we have to draw
a line someplace; and the Court has already done it, and
it did it in Douglas, and it said it was after the first
tier of review on direct appeal. It's exactly the same
argument, except where the law stands now the line is
drawn at a different place on the same principle.
MR. BARTELS: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE ALITO: It has to be drawn
someplace.
MR. BARTELS: That principle doesn't work
very well in a system like Arizona's where you can't
bring this one claim on the direct appeal, and you can
-- and Mr. Martinez, well, couldn't -- you can file your
first postconviction and litigate it while the appeal is
pending before it's final.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you would be
happy with a system that said, no, you don't have to
raise it on collateral review; you have to raise it on
direct appeal.
MR. BARTELS: As long as --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which is very
unworkable, because if you're arguing ineffective
assistance of counsel in a direct proceeding, presumably
it's usually the same counsel; he's not likely to bring
the claim. That would be worse for criminal
defendants --
MR. BARTELS: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- than the
system that's there now.
MR. BARTELS: No, Your Honor. I -- the --
if direct appeal is now going to encompass possible
claims of ineffective assistance, you're not going to be
able to have the same counsel on appeal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but the
person --
MR. BARTELS: And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The person who
decides what arguments you're going to make on appeal is
usually the person who handled the trial in these types
of cases.
MR. BARTELS: Well, Your Honor, that's not
true in Arizona.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In Arizona, the
usual case in criminal cases is that somebody else
handles the appeal on direct proceedings?
MR. BARTELS: It may be from the same
office. But -- but I agree that that would have to
change if ineffective assistance of counsel were part of
the direct appeal.
And the other thing that would have to be
done -- and this is done in some States -- is that you
have to raise it in direct appeal, but most -- as this
Court recognized in Massaro -- most ineffective
assistance claims can't be dealt with on direct appeal
because of a lack of evidence. They need more evidence.
So --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, ineffective
assistance of appellate counsel certainly can't be dealt
with on direct appeal, right?
MR. BARTELS: No, that's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, even if you get a
different counsel to -- to take the appeal --
MR. BARTELS: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- you could always claim
that that counsel was ineffective in habeas, right?
MR. BARTELS: Your Honor, I -- two things
about that: First of all, the State does not have to
provide the review of the effectiveness of appellate
counsel. If it does so, I would still say that that's
going to end up having to be second-opportunity review
of the claims that appellate counsel failed to raise.
That's got to be the basis for --
JUSTICE ALITO: If there's a right to
counsel whenever someone asserts a claim that couldn't
have been raised earlier, why does the State not have
the obligation to provide counsel to contest the
constitutionality of the representation that was
provided on appeal?
MR. BARTELS: Well, Your Honor, the -- the
reason is that -- in terms of this first-tier,
second-tier analysis from Douglas and Halbert, you're
not going to be able to look at the effectiveness of
appellate counsel without looking at the issue of
prejudice. And that's going to require what is
second-opportunity review of the merits of the claim
that the appellate lawyer didn't raise. But that's the
second opportunity for that review, because the direct
appeal was the first opportunity.
I think in the end, though, just a Mathews
v. Eldridge procedural due process analysis works
better. And the critical factor is what's the risk of
an error in the absence of counsel?
Well, the first time around, the risk of
error involves what's the probability that the trial
judge made a mistake that's prejudicial? By the time we
get to the postconviction challenging appellate
counsel's effectiveness, now it's the probability that
the trial judge was wrong and that the appellate lawyer
was wrong. And so, it's exponentially lower and at
least provides a basis for --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the trial judge
doesn't have to be wrong for there to be an ineffective
assistance of counsel claim at trial?
MR. BARTELS: No. No, I'm sticking with the
example of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But I --
MR. BARTELS: Trial counsel -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I wonder what you would say
-- some of these statistics suggest that these claims
succeed very, very rarely. So, by the analysis that you
just used, this kind of balancing analysis, why we
should even go so far as you would have us go?
MR. BARTELS: Well, Your Honor, the -- it
would be because Douglas and Halbert have done that
balancing and said in this situation, the first-tier
review, the probability of an incorrect result without
counsel is sufficiently high that there should be
counsel. And that's really the disagreement between
Justice Douglas and Justice Harlan in Douglas. Justice
Harlan didn't think the lawyers mattered that much.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So the -- postconviction
application would go to the trial judge, right? And on
the --
MR. BARTELS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: All right. So, go to the
trial judge with this Anders type brief that doesn't
raise ineffective assistance of counsel, but it's such
an obvious claim to make that when the -- when the judge
reviews that Anders brief, if the trial judge thought
that this defendant was abysmally represented, wouldn't
the -- wouldn't the court say: Sorry, I'm not going to
accept this Anders brief. It seems to me that you --
there was a flagrant ineffective assistance of counsel,
and you should have raised that. That's a -- that's a
viable issue. So, I'm not going to accept your brief.
I mean --
MR. BARTELS: I think there -- I think there
would be something like that with the right to counsel
for these ineffective assistance of trial counsel
claims. Your Honor --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, if the judge reviews
the Anders brief, really thought there was an
ineffective assistance of counsel claim, a valid one,
the judge would have spotted the issue, and it would
have been -- and it would have been argued on that
first --
MR. BARTELS: Are we talking about the
Martinez case itself, Your Honor?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. In the Martinez
case, there was an Anders brief, right?
MR. BARTELS: There was, Your Honor, but
it's nothing but a summary of the trial transcript and
provides no basis for the trial court -- the problem
with ineffective trial --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Doesn't the trial
court -- I mean, the excuse -- the excuse of counsel is
not automatic; the trial judge has to look at it and
say, yes, there's -- there's no issue for you to pursue;
so, I'm going to excuse you.
MR. BARTELS: Well, under the current
system, the trial judge has no duty to make any Anders
determination because the Arizona courts have held
there's no right to effective appointed counsel.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. BARTELS: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Cattani.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENT E. CATTANI
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. CATTANI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I would like to focus on three points.
First, Petitioner is advocating a significant change to
this Court's jurisprudence that does implicate the
State's reliance interest on Finley and Giarratano.
It's not a modest change --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Cattani, could I ask
about your interests here? Because your State is one
that does appoint counsel; so, you already have the cost
there. I'm just wondering -- in your brief, you talk a
lot about the excessive costs that this would impose on
you. And I'm just wondering where those costs come from
if you appoint counsel already. And I know some other
States are in a different situation, but as to you,
where do the costs come from?
MR. CATTANI: I think they come primarily
from the logical extension of the rule that would
require a second postconviction proceeding to litigate
claims of ineffective assistance of first postconviction
counsel. Right now, those claims are routinely rejected
under Finley and Giarratano because there's no --
there's no constitutional right to counsel. Under --
under the theory and -- I don't think there's really
been advanced a principled basis for limiting the rule
that's been advanced. And, certainly, under --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, if we just said there
is -- you know, we can only draw a line in this context,
and we're going to draw the line here, and this is where
it sticks. What are the additional costs to you?
MR. CATTANI: Well, the additional costs
would -- would be implicated with a second
postconviction proceeding.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that -- it's only
a cost if that second counsel, however it's secured, can
actually make a credible or sustainable claim that
appellate counsel, the first-tier counsel, was
ineffective.
MR. CATTANI: Well, I think it's the nature
of ineffective assistance claims. They are easy to
raise and difficult to litigate. It's -- it's not
difficult to raise -- to assert ineffective assistance.
It's -- it's very obvious in the context of capital
cases where -- where an assertion is my attorney was
ineffective at sentencing for failing to raise
additional things --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Federal courts --
MR. CATTANI: -- in mitigation.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- handle them
routinely.
MR. CATTANI: Pardon me.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Federal courts handle
them routinely on papers, and most of them are denied.
Is the State system different? Where first-level
counsel, appellate counsel, postconviction counsel
raises ineffective assistance of trial counsel. How
many of those cases end up in hearings?
MR. CATTANI: I don't -- I don't have the
statistics. They do not generally result in -- in
evidentiary hearings.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly. Very few.
MR. CATTANI: In noncapital cases.
Certainly, in capital cases, I think the majority do.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I go back to just
clarify the record for a second?
MR. CATTANI: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What authorized Levitt
to file the postconviction relief motion? Wasn't he
appointed simply to prosecute the direct appeal?
MR. CATTANI: Harriette Levitt was appointed
to prosecute the direct appeal.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What gave him the
authority to file the 32 motion? Obviously, he didn't
seek his client's approval, because the client when he
received the motion said: I don't understand what
you're saying; I only speak Spanish.
So, what gave Levitt the authority to do
what he did?
MR. CATTANI: Well, she -- she was
representing Mr. Martinez, and the rules allow the
filing of a postconviction petition.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: By an attorney appointed
just on the direct review?
MR. CATTANI: Well, I don't think there was
anything that would prevent her from representing him in
-- in a number of different ways. If she saw something
that she thought needed to be raised in a post --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what would have
been -- what was the tactical advantage of doing what
she did? What conceivable reason was there for her to
file the Rule 32 motion before direct review finished?
MR. CATTANI: Well, I don't know that there
was necessarily a tactical reason. The reason would be
in some cases that if an attorney views the case as
having a potentially meritorious issue on
postconviction, you get relief earlier.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you know that she
didn't. So, answer my question. What reason did Levitt
have, strategic or otherwise, to file the Rule 32
motion?
MR. CATTANI: I don't know that she had one.
There was some indication in the record that there was
some evidence that she wanted to raise an issue that the
victim's diary would have contained some exculpatory
information. And that would have been something that
would have had to have been developed in a
postconviction --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But she files
essentially an Anders brief that says, I don't see
anything.
What was the -- what was the strategic
reason for doing that? What conceivable strategic
reason?
MR. CATTANI: Well, if she thought that
there would be a claim but, after looking at it further,
decided that the claims were not colorable, is, I think,
what happened in this instance.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it routine, or
does it happen often, for lawyers who perceive a trial
issue that can only be raised on collateral review to
think that it makes sense to raise that right away so
that the appeal -- and then the appeal is delayed until
that's resolved?
MR. CATTANI: It is what happened in Arizona
frequently, prior to the Spreitz decision. And,
historically, counsel was allowed -- counsel were
allowed to raise claims of ineffective assistance and
stay the appeal. And that was the practice previously.
So, it's not necessarily unusual that an attorney
reviewing the record might decide that there's some
issue that could be raised in postconviction.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. This is -- I'll
not -- we'll say this is my argument. I don't want to
make this your friend's argument.
In Arizona, there was a trial, and defendant
thinks trial counsel was inadequate. Then there was a
collateral review, and Arizona appoints a lawyer for
that. And after that, the Arizona courts thought, no,
he was adequate at trial. This particular defendant
wants to say that that lawyer was inadequate, too. In
fact, it was the same one. Hardly surprising. All
right? That's his view.
Now, when he makes that argument in Federal
court, I guess he's going to be met with the claim,
since Arizona didn't have to appoint the lawyer for
collateral review, it doesn't matter what that lawyer
does. Is that right?
MR. CATTANI: Well, I -- I think it's better
viewed through the lens of procedural due process. If
-- we're looking at what are the procedures that are
available to a defendant to raise a claim of ineffective
assistance of trial counsel. One of the ways that you
can do that, that certainly goes a long way to
satisfying procedural due process, is to appoint
counsel. It could be accomplished without appointing
counsel --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. CATTANI: -- certainly, having some --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but don't -- don't
guess where I'm going here because maybe nobody wants to
go there.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Just follow the questions.
The question is, if he tries to make the claim he does,
want to say that my first lawyer was no good at trial,
and my second lawyer, who by coincidence was the same in
the collateral proceeding, was no good either, then the
State comes in and says: You can't make that -- you
can't make that argument now because we had a proceeding
called the collateral review proceeding. We didn't have
to give you a lawyer there. But even if that lawyer was
inadequate, you lose because we didn't have to give you
one.
Am I right about that?
MR. CATTANI: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's all I want to know.
MR. CATTANI: Well, I think you're -- you're
not right from the standpoint that we do have to provide
procedural due process.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. CATTANI: And so, the question is
whether that was enough.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right -- no, no. You
say -- I'll answer it. It is enough to give him a
lawyer. Okay? It is enough. But you have to give him
an adequate lawyer if you give him one. If you give him
one. You don't have to give him one. But if you give
him one, it has to be adequate. Now, what about that?
MR. CATTANI: Well, I think that goes well
beyond this Court's previous jurisprudence.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, but would that
-- it does. That's what I think we're at. Now, why not
say this, that every defendant has to have one fair shot
at claiming -- they can make the claim that his trial
lawyer was inadequate? And the State doesn't have to
give him a lawyer at collateral review, but if it does,
then that lawyer, he can say, couldn't make that claim
because he was inadequate. So, you say, fine, they can
make that argument in habeas. I bet they never win it.
But somebody might. He can make it.
So, what would happen would be that the
habeas judge in Federal habeas would read the piece of
paper. He'd say, what's the ground for thinking this?
And then he'd make his normal kinds of judgments.
Now, what is -- is there anything wrong with
that view? Is it absolutely blocked by precedent? It
seems to me it would relieve the concerns of the States
about worrying about having to appoint a lot of lawyers,
and it gives him a fair shot to make his argument.
MR. CATTANI: Well, I think it is blocked by
precedent, certainly by Finley and Giarratano.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because?
MR. CATTANI: The problem with just shifting
-- because this Court has said that there is no right to
counsel and thus no right to the effective assistance of
counsel in both --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's -- that's
where you'd have to make the exception. You'd say, if
you give him a counsel, he does have the right to an
effective assistance of counsel insofar as the
ineffectiveness would prevent him from raising a claim
that, to be fair, the trial itself has to be -- has to
-- he has to have that about the trial itself. That
exception. There would be that exception. Now, is
there something in those cases that blocks that
exception?
MR. CATTANI: Well, I think it does create
an infinite continuum.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, in a sense it does,
but he's never going to win the infinite continuum.
MR. CATTANI: Well, but the other problem
with it is --
JUSTICE BREYER: You never have to give him
a lawyer at all.
MR. CATTANI: That's correct, but if you
don't, then the problem is you shift over to Federal
court, and on Federal habeas you're then -- you're then
in the position of litigating claims that are untethered
to any State court decision. And when we talk about
whether it's blocked by current precedent, certainly
under Edwards v. Carpenter to allege ineffective
assistance as cause to overcome a procedural default,
there's a requirement that you litigate that claim in
State court.
JUSTICE ALITO: The question is whether
there's cause external to the petitioner to overcome the
procedural default. So, if you went down that road,
would the petitioner representing himself or herself,
not have to show that, I would have raised a claim of
ineffective assistance of trial counsel, and I would
have won on that, were it not for the fact that the
State appointed counsel for me and led me astray and
prevented me from raising this meritorious argument --
isn't that where that would have to go?
MR. CATTANI: Well, I think it would, but
it's even more problematic here in that the procedure is
that the attorney files a notice, gives notice to the
defendant that she's been unable to find any colorable
claims and gives the defendant an opportunity to file
his own pleading. So, it's -- it's somewhat illogical
to think that if we just grant a second postconviction
proceeding that the defendant is going to be in any
better position than he's in, in this type of situation
where he's advised that the attorney says, as is
routinely the case, I'm unable to find colorable claims,
and then the defendant is given an opportunity to file
his own petition.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And how much time.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Cattani, have you --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How much time -- in the
procedure you described, appointed counsel does inform
Martinez: I'm not bringing up any -- any claims for
you. So, if you want to pursue relief, you have to do
so on your own.
How much time would the defendant have? How
much time remained?
MR. CATTANI: I don't recall the specific
time. I believe it is in the brief. I'm sorry. I
don't recall the number of days that were remaining.
But, certainly, a defendant can request additional time
if the period of time is very short at that point.
Extensions are routinely granted in those circumstances.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Cattani, if you handled
this through the regular appeals process, the person
would receive the benefit of counsel. Is that correct?
Rather than shuttle this over to the postconviction
review process?
MR. CATTANI: Well, the person -- here he
receives the benefit of counsel because it's appointed
in Arizona. He receives the benefit of counsel. If
your question is, would he be entitled to the effective
assistance of the attorney developing that record --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, exactly right.
MR. CATTANI: And I don't think so
necessarily. I think that's a different -- I think the
attack on the effectiveness of collateral review -- of
trial counsel is itself a collateral attack. And I
think under Finley and Giarratano -- and I think the
distinction this Court has drawn between direct review
and collateral attacks is one that should be maintained.
And in theory --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But those -- those were --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Try it this way. Try --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- cases in which you
could not raise -- pardon me -- in which you could raise
the particular issue at hand. But that's not this case.
MR. CATTANI: Well, I don't think it's
ever --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The question is whether or
not the rationale of those cases, which you state
correctly, is applicable to a different set of
circumstances.
MR. CATTANI: Well, I'm -- I'm not sure I'm
following, because I think the procedure that Arizona is
following is -- is something that was -- that was in
play at the time of Finley and Giarratano. What -- what
Arizona does is not extraordinary; it really follows
what has been recommended in Massaro, that -- that
claims relating to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but those were,
correct me if I'm wrong, cases -- those were not cases
in which the issue could only be raised on collateral.
MR. CATTANI: Well, I think in Massaro this
Court noted that it would be rare for any -- for a
defendant to be entitled to relief on a claim that could
be raised on direct appeal. And --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Massaro, indeed, said
that there are good reasons for withdrawing this issue
and putting it in a different kind of process. So,
suppose the State does this, and some States do it:
They say, on -- in the direct appeal process, we're
going to remand this issue back to the trial court
because the trial court is good with the facts and can
make an evaluation. But it is part of the direct appeal
process, this -- this remand. Would the person then be
entitled to effective assistance of counsel?
MR. CATTANI: That's -- it's a difficult
question. I -- I don't think they would, because I
think it's still a collateral proceeding to address the
-- the effectiveness of trial counsel.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Even though now it's part of
the regular appeals process? It's just the way the --
because of the issues that we recognized in Massaro, the
State has decided to structure things in this way?
MR. CATTANI: Well, I think more important
than the -- than the label that's been put on it is the
nature of the -- of the argument that's being advanced,
and it's a collateral attack, whether it -- whether a
State chooses to call it part of the appeal. What
happened -- what happened in Arizona previously was
that it would be --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, now you're creating a
different rule. You're saying anything which somebody
determines is appropriately raised as a collateral
attack, even if there's been no first review of that
question, there's no entitlement to counsel?
MR. CATTANI: Well, I think that's the
logical extension of what this Court announced in Finley
v. -- Finley and Giarratano, that we've drawn this
distinction between --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I don't think, as
Justice Kennedy said, that we ever really considered
that question in Finley and Giarratano because we were
assuming there that all the things had been through the
appeals process.
MR. CATTANI: But I guess I'm not certain
that the timing would make a difference of when -- of
whether you had a direct appeal first or whether the
collateral proceeding occurs first. In either case, the
collateral proceeding is a non-record-based attack on
the conviction, as opposed to the direct review, which
is a record-based review of the conviction. So, the
timing I don't think is as important as the nature of
what's happening; it's a non-record based attack on the
conviction.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, Justice Kagan's
question indicates that there are States, as you know,
where on direct appeal they can allow for an evidentiary
hearing on IAC. And as I understand your answer, is if
that happens, the proceedings that precede the
resolution of the issue on direct appeal, being probably
conducted by the same counsel who is taking the direct
appeal, can be conducted and he can be -- and the
counsel, he or she, can be inadequate in the conduct of
those further inquiries. That seems to me very strange.
MR. CATTANI: Well, I don't think we're
suggesting that would be the desired outcome. And it's
simply that drawing the distinction between
collateral --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're suggesting that
there's no constitutional right to effective assistance
of counsel on direct, when he conducts some
supplementary proceedings. That's very strange.
MR. CATTANI: Well, I guess the suggestion
is that it's a collateral -- that's a collateral
proceeding. If they -- if you stay the proceeding and
go back and address ineffective assistance, that that
would essentially be a collateral proceeding.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You mean -- it makes no
sense to me. That happens quite frequently on direct
appeal where a variety of issues are raised, and the
court -- the circuit courts or the appellate courts send
it back to trial counsel to develop the record further.
Your position is every time there's a sending back, that
stops the need for effective counsel?
MR. CATTANI: If they've sent something back
for a new hearing, I think that's something different.
I think you --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that involved in this
case?
MR. CATTANI: -- at that point.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do we have to decide this
for this case?
MR. CATTANI: I don't think we need to. I
think it's clear that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's another case. It's --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, the reason I think
it's relevant is that if you were to say that there
needed to be effective assistance of counsel there, then
I would have asked you, what is the difference between
this case and that case? So, that's the reason it's
relevant to this case, because the difference is really
just one of just labels.
MR. CATTANI: Well, and that's why I think
it's more important to -- to assess the inquiry that's
being done, whether it's a collateral inquiry, as
opposed to whether we're labeling it part of the -- the
direct appeal or not. And if it is a collateral
inquiry, then it makes more sense, I think, to -- to
couch it in terms of this is collateral review. But,
certainly, I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: There seems to be a
rational line between collateral attack and attack in
the same proceeding. I don't see anything irrational
about that. Right?
MR. CATTANI: No --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes!
MR. CATTANI: Yes, I agree. Yes.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you explain to me,
why don't we consider this adverse to your proceeding,
because this postconviction proceeding -- it began and
it began at the same time as the direct appeal, but it
ended before this case became final.
So, it was the first -- it was the first
tier because it was decided before the direct appeal.
MR. CATTANI: Well, it is a first-tier
collateral attack. I would agree that it's a first
tier. That's the first time that this issue is raised
in a collateral attack. But I don't -- I don't think
that's determinative of the issue here.
This Court has never -- has never said that
every claim that can only be raised for the first time
entitles someone to -- to counsel. And that exception,
that would -- that would swallow the rule. In Arizona,
in most States where the types of claims that can be
raised in postconviction proceedings are generally
limited to claims that could not have been raised
earlier.
So, the rule that Petitioner is seeking
really would swallow -- the exception would swallow the
rule that was announced in -- in Finley -- and
Giarratano.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
No, you've got to listen to the Government.
Mr. Wall.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY B. WALL
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Justices Sotomayor and Kagan, I want to go
to your questions about the costs, because there are
some very real costs here. We live in a world that is
settled and working. Although this Court has drawn the
line at the first direct appeal, 47 States, D.C., and
the Federal Government provide counsel in a first
postconviction proceeding, either as of right or in the
discretion of the trial court or the public defender.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Forty-seven do and the
Federal Government does?
MR. WALL: That's right. So, there are 18
States that provide it as of right; 29 States and D.C.
provide it in the discretion of the trial court or the
public defender, and then the Federal Government,
obviously, in the discretion of the district courts.
And so, what Petitioner is doing, by
constitutionalizing that area, is shifting resources to
a subset of ineffectiveness claims.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's pretty --
it's small comfort to the lawyer -- the client who
doesn't get one that everybody else does.
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, I understand,
but I think this is an area where States are permitted
to draw different lines. And what Petitioner is saying
-- take the Federal system, for example. Petitioner's
rule would say a Federal prisoner can walk in under
2255, and by making an allegation of ineffectiveness of
either trial or appellate counsel, he's entitled to
appointed counsel without even, I take it, a showing of
colorableness.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, not if you adopt the
-- the one-proceeding rule that I think counsel for the
Petitioner was suggesting. He suggested Arizona is one
of those few States where you could only raise this
issue on collateral, and, therefore, you are entitled to
effective assistance of counsel on that collateral.
Then he would stop there, for statistical and for --
reasons, probability reasons, rather.
MR. WALL: I think that's exactly where he
would stop. I think it's very difficult to explain why
his rule doesn't require him to go further, because by
saying the first tier is not a stage of a case, as this
Court has always meant it, but it applies claim by
claim, and lawyers are going to represent you only on
some claims, and you're -- pro se you'll file others, he
ends up with two problems.
One, he has to concede, as he does in his
reply brief and as he did in response to Justice Alito,
that he's going to say the same thing with regard to a
lot of other claims that are typically raised in habeas;
and, second, he can't find a limiting principle.
Because when you come in on your second or your third or
your fourth postconviction proceeding, and you say all
my previous counsel has been ineffective, that's also
the first time that you've been able to say it, and
you'll be making the same claim: I'm entitled to have
one constitutionally competent lawyer argue that my
trial counsel was ineffective.
JUSTICE BREYER: What about not going that
far? What about saying: In this case -- in this case,
Arizona did give him a lawyer. In this case, it was the
same lawyer. In this case, the proceeding was filed
prior to the completion of the appeal and ended before
the completion of the appeal. So, for this case, this
counts as the one round of proceedings, and, therefore,
his client can in fact assert that that single
individual who was his lawyer was incompetent in those
proceedings that ended -- didn't end prior to the
termination of the appeal, ended first.
MR. WALL: Here's -- here's the primary
problem with that, Justice Breyer: This Court said in
Coleman, and before that in Murray v. Carrier and in
Wainwright v. Torna, that if you don't have a Federal
constitutional right to counsel and the States or
Congress go beyond what they're constitutionally
required to do when they give you a lawyer, that
lawyer's performance does not thereby give rise to a due
process claim.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but it didn't face the
issue of what about a claim that you have a
constitutional right to bring up at least once? And
this is the first time he was able to bring it up. So
in other words, Coleman didn't face this problem. It's
as if you couldn't bring up the claim that the judge was
sleeping until you got to collateral proceedings. A
State could have such a rule. I don't know why they
would, but they could. But if they did, it would be
your first chance ever to attack that trial process, and
so isn't Coleman, in its effort to bar relitigation,
actually rather beside the point?
MR. WALL: Justice Breyer, I think we just
see the case in fundamentally different ways. His first
opportunity to raise his trial ineffectiveness claim was
in his first postconviction proceeding, and he had the
opportunity to raise it, and his lawyer didn't. And
what he's coming in and saying now is not I was deprived
of an opportunity to raise it, as in your --
JUSTICE BREYER: No.
MR. WALL: -- hypothetical, but I had the
opportunity and I didn't, and we should excuse that --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, we're saying it the
same way, just as if his lawyer, when he could raise the
fact that the judge was sleeping, didn't raise it
because he was staring at the ceiling and had been
drinking too much. Just as he could raise that point in
habeas, because it's his first chance to do it, so he
could raise the point that the lawyer, the first time
that he had the chance to raise the ineffectiveness of
trial counsel, was incompetent, et cetera.
MR. WALL: Justice Breyer, I think this case
presents a much narrower question, which is, when he
comes in, in his second postconviction proceeding, and
says although I didn't raise it last time around, I have
cause to excuse that default because my lawyer was
ineffective, this Court's been clear in three different
cases that that's only cause if he had a constitutional
right to counsel in the proceeding that he's pointed to
and that he complains about. So, the question --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What you haven't told me
is a reason why he shouldn't have had effective counsel
in the first postconviction proceeding? I mean, our
entire line of cases under Douglas were premised on the
fact that defendants would not be or couldn't be charged
with the ability to prosecute their claims through
direct appeal. Discretionary appeal, we said the
likelihood is they could do it on discretionary appeal
because they would have a record from below; they would
have competent counsel below who would make the best
arguments possible. They could then pursue their
discretionary appeals because they had something to work
with.
But if your first chance as to present
ineffective assistance of counsel claim is a
postconviction proceeding, you have no record to work
with.
MR. WALL: That's right. Justice Sotomayor,
I think this is a very different case from Douglas and
Halbert, which were grounded in a fairly fundamental
equal protection concern, that indigent defendants would
be denied a first look, maybe an only look, at their
convictions and sentences.
Here, we're facing something very different.
States like Arizona are giving direct appeals;
defendants are getting looks at their convictions and
sentences, as Petitioner did. They're providing
postconviction review.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but it is the first
look --
MR. WALL: They're even providing lawyers in
postconviction review.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- only look at the
effective assistance claims. So, what would you say,
Mr. Wall, if a State did the following: If it said
we're going to take out all Fourth Amendment exclusion
claims, and we're going to put that in a postconviction
review system, and, you know what, there you're not
entitled to an effective lawyer -- would that be all
right?
MR. WALL: Justice Kagan, I think there are
any number of claims that if a State tried to pull them
out of direct appeal and locate them in collateral
review, we might be able to say it's end-running its
obligation under Douglas, because those are the types of
claims based on a trial record that ought to be -- and
always have belonged to direct appeal. The question is,
does a State act arbitrarily when it takes an
ineffectiveness claim, which is the only type of claim
that a State has tried to relocate into collateral
review --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I'm sure the State
would not say it was acting arbitrarily in my example.
The State would say there's a good reason for it:
Fourth Amendment exclusion claims are disfavored; they
have nothing to do with innocence; they involve a kind
of fact-intensive inquiry that is better done in a
different proceeding.
So, I think that the State would have many
good reasons, but, you know, it's also true that there
you don't get a lawyer.
MR. WALL: Justice Kagan, I just -- I think
that the Court's case law would -- I mean, I think it
would be a difficult question, the Court having said
that under Stone, at least in the Federal system, the
Fourth Amendment -- Fourth Amendment claims can't be
raised on habeas. I think it would be difficult for a
State to come in and say they have to be raised in
habeas.
Here, the Court said in Massaro these claims
are best suited to resolution in habeas, and they're
claims that are traditionally brought in habeas. And at
least for that type of claim, which is the -- I mean,
the State's not trying to hide the ball here. All the
State has done is take a claim that this Court has said
belongs at habeas and say we're putting it in habeas,
not as in the Federal system where, although people can
raise it as a practical matter, they're all decided on
collateral review, or virtually all of them. It says
we're just going to save people the trouble of briefing
and raising it, and we'll locate it to collateral
review, not for an invidious or arbitrary reason, but
for all the reasons that this Court gave in Massaro.
So, at least for that type of claim, I think
it's permissible under the Fourteenth Amendment, leaving
for another day whether it could do it with other types
of claims that I do think probably belong to a direct
appeal. And that would present very different
constitutional problems if a State started trying to
channel them to collateral review. But I -- all Arizona
has done is pick up on Massaro and say, absolutely
right, these claims belong in habeas, and that's where
we're going to put them.
And collateral review --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You've now told me that
the vast majority of States -- 47, I think, is the
number you gave -- put this into postconviction -- give
counsel at postconviction review.
MR. WALL: At least discretionarily.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't it an empty
promise if what you're giving is incompetent counsel?
MR. WALL: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, it's a --
Strickland is a very high standard.
MR. WALL: Justice Sotomayor, a number of
States have found under their own constitutions or
statutes a right to effective assistance of counsel.
But it's a very different matter to say that when States
go beyond what the Constitution requires in providing
counsel, that counsel's performance thereby gives rise
to a due process claim. And, again, the Court's
rejected that in at least three cases, and I think
saying that it's cause to excuse a procedural default
here without saying that there's some underlying right
to counsel would require overruling those cases.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Bartels, you have 2 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT BY ROBERT D. BARTELS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BARTELS: Mr. Chief Justice, let me
straighten out one thing about -- it's not only about
the record -- about the facts. This is not in the
record, and I'm really doing this for my friend's
benefit. Harriette Levitt was initially appointed to
represent Mr. Martinez on appeal. She then moved to
have herself appointed for purposes of the
postconviction review, and it was at a later date, not
too much later, that she filed the notice. So that at
the time the notice was filed, she was officially
appointed counsel for purposes of postconviction
proceedings, and the Arizona Court of Appeals stayed
their proceedings, which were ongoing. There was a
notice of appeal to allow this to continue.
The other point that I wanted to get to was
the questions about other States where this -- these
claims are handled on direct appeal illustrate a couple
of things about our argument: One is it would be --
seem very peculiar to say you have a right to appointed
and effective counsel in Wisconsin or Utah on these
issues, but not in Arizona, where the label -- the
difference is purely label.
All these claims, almost all of them,
require additional evidence, and that fact makes counsel
even more important. Respondents want to say you have a
right to counsel on review for almost all claims, but
not the one where you need it the most.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
47:7 allegation 6:6 APPEARAN... 17:1,9,20,25 50:10 51:4
51:14 46:4 1:15 19:11,18 26:5 54:2
55:21 allow 29:11 41:9 21:21 22:6,9 32:25 34:5,15 assuming 40:20
14:20 allows 5:19 28:11 42:8 55:7 40:4,11 41:1,5
53:11 Amendment 46:5 arguments 10:4 43:14,14 44:4
2:11 44:24 applies 46:20 3:16 5:5 11:13 27:25 29:13,25
23:3,23,24 appoint 5:3 11:8 21:5,6 25:25 37:23
28:2 announced 26:20 32:1,10 44:11 46:10 automatic 4:18
55:13 40:14 44:18 34:14 47:13 50:20 25:20
15:16 19:14 5:10 10:25 Arizona's 3:17 32:7
41:10 28:25 29:1,13 asked 12:22
appeal 3:13,25 54:25 55:8 assert 27:23 44:23
26:10 20:19,21 21:1 appoints 31:18 22:12 balancing 23:24
43:19 29:2 31:3,3,9 arbitrarily 6:3 8:7,16 9:2 Bartels 1:16 2:3
39:7,12,15 51:18,23 9:13,24 11:5 2:13 3:5,6,8
8:13,15 47:21 50:2,2,3 argued 25:8 25:6 27:1,21 9:23 10:6,12
15:10,23 51:13,17 53:8 arguing 13:5 27:23 28:12 10:18,21,24
19:5,9 54:20 55:3,6 16:1,1 20:10 31:8 32:8 11:12,23 12:6
blocks 35:6 25:11,13 29:25 chance 14:6,23 4:15 6:2 8:11
board 14:14 36:21 38:12 48:15 49:8,10 8:17,24 9:4
14:12 Brady 6:22 7:14 40:25 42:16,19 50:9 10:13 11:8
8:5,10,11 42:22 43:2,2,3 change 21:11 20:20 21:17
17:4 Breyer 12:20 43:25 46:19 26:10,13 22:9 23:22
18:6 13:4,8,15,19 47:12,12,13,14 channel 53:10 25:3 27:1,2,21
13:22 14:15 47:16 48:19 charged 49:25 30:22 31:8
15:5,7,23 49:12 50:14 CHARLES 1:6 35:19 36:15,21
20:8,15 16:17 17:5,16 52:8 55:19,20 check 11:10 37:3 38:25
21:4 31:13 32:13,15 cases 12:16,17 Chief 1:18 3:3,8 44:12,14 45:20
22:1,4 32:19 33:7,11 21:3,7 27:25 9:18 10:1 20:4 46:22 47:2
23:17,20 33:14,22 34:18 28:13,18,19 20:9,16,22,25 50:1 51:4,7,12
34:23 35:10,14 29:25 35:6 21:6 26:2,4,7 51:16,25 52:11
47:11,23 48:6 38:10,16 39:2 30:24 44:20 52:15,17 53:7
54:12,13 48:18,25 49:3 39:2 49:18,24 45:1,21,24 53:12 55:6,12
49:12 54:7,10 54:11,15 55:18 55:15
24:14,17,20,23 26:4,5,7,14,23 circuit 42:8 clear 5:24 15:16
25:16 briefing 52:25 30:7,20 31:5 claim 3:14 5:12 45:22 47:18
briefs 13:24 32:4,14 33:6,8 5:16 6:8 7:16 client's 29:5
10:8 bring 7:23 8:5 34:19 35:8,12 9:19,21,22,25 coincidence
3:7 26:6 48:11 38:13,19 39:4 14:10,16,18,18 48:10,16
54:14 bringing 37:3 39:18 40:1,13 14:23 15:13,24 collateral 13:1
brought 52:17 42:12,17,20 19:25 20:13 18:2 20:6 31:1
54:19 call 40:5 49:16,18 54:8 32:7,20 33:25 41:1,20 42:1,1
52:2 Carpenter certainly 21:21 48:5,7,11,20 51:13,20 52:24
48:2 Carrier 47:24 32:9,14 34:17 52:18,20 53:4 colorable 30:22
case 3:3,4,21 4:6 35:21 37:11 54:6 36:14,21
35:21 17:6 18:1 21:7 challenging 23:9 claims 3:11,19 26:19,22,23
52:13 continuum 27:18 28:11,11 creating 40:8 Department 1:7
49:14 convicted 6:6 31:7,17 32:8 criminal 1:18 deprived 48:23
41:3,6 37:20,21 38:3 curiae 1:22 2:11determination
correct 4:24 7:6 42:9,11,25 35:21 44:7
30:18 CORRECTI... 49:11,19,22 3:1,6 8:20 developed 12:3
cost 26:16 27:16 54:10,11,25 day 53:6 37:23
couch 43:11 count 16:24 decide 31:11 difference 40:23
5:21 6:3,10 7:1 4:14,20 5:3,24 decides 11:7 26:21 28:10
8:1,5,7,16,18 24:19 25:16,19 decision 31:6 39:10 40:9
9:11,14 10:2,7 34:20 35:18,20 decisions 15:15 48:19 49:17
41:22 11:8,10 12:2,5 39:5,13,14 35:23 36:3 53:8 54:3
49:18 12:11 13:18 40:14 42:8 49:16 54:8 difficult 27:22
15:13,18,25 44:8 45:2,6,10 defendant 5:9 27:23 39:18
16:15,16,18,19 47:23 52:9,15 31:16,20 32:7 direct 3:12,25
17:8,25 18:2 55:1 36:18,22 37:6 19:17,25 20:7
48:2 21:11,21,25 25:25 28:3,8 defendants 21:12,15,17,22
22:21 23:5,16 45:17 50:16,21 29:2,14,22
26:1,2,16,20 54:6 denied 28:9 41:23 42:6
50:2,20 E 1:18 2:1,6 3:1 especially 4:6 38:23 fine 18:8 34:4
53:7 3:1 26:5 ESQ 1:16,18,20 extremely 6:16 finished 29:22
earlier 5:17 6:19 2:3,6,9,13 Finley 12:3
easy 27:21 establishes 9:22 48:10 40:14,15,19
8:6 effective 13:6 evaluation fact 9:23 12:15 first 3:15 4:3,7
34:21 35:1 45:23 55:13 12:24 13:11,17
41:22 42:11,25 8:6 21:18,18 facts 39:14 18:2,2,18
51:4,9 54:2 evidentiary fact-intensive 22:5 23:1,6
effectiveness exactly 19:6,17 failed 6:7 22:9 27:1 32:21
40:16 23:10 38:2 46:16 failure 10:8,8 44:1,1,4,5,9
39:21 example 8:1 fair 12:11 33:24 45:7,8 46:19
either 32:23 23:18 46:2 fairly 50:15 48:15,19,21
45:18 46:5 exception 34:24 47:12 50:17,24
Eldridge 23:3 35:5,5,7 44:10 far-reaching 6:1 first-level 28:10
15:16 encompass excessive 26:18 4:22 5:4,9,9 7:25 9:16 16:5
22:19 20:19 exclusion 51:6 7:3,5,7,11,15 19:10 22:18
49:24 ended 4:7 43:25 51:25 11:4 14:19 24:3 27:18
51:15 47:15,20,21 exculpatory 6:7 28:3,8 31:24 44:3
16:3 excuse 13:21 45:8,12,16 focus 26:9
46:1 ends 46:23 25:19,19,22 46:2,3 47:25 follow 10:14
38:5 entire 49:24 10:12 file 5:10 20:1 38:21 51:5
45:6 entirely 3:17 explain 43:21 28:24 29:4,22 follows 38:23
48:4 46:5,12 47:8 23:12 filed 47:14 54:23 form 11:15,15
51:9 extends 6:2 54:24 11:15 12:24,25
40:12 40:14 filing 29:12 Forty-seven
equal 50:16 37:13 find 36:14,21 found 54:1
52:11,11 9:3 10:4 16:6 Halbert 6:25 25:11,14 32:7 35:22
24:10,13 28:20 50:15 7:14 14:14 50:10
42:3 45:3 handle 28:5,8 17:9
goes 17:1 32:9 handles 21:8 illogical 36:16 13:17 35:2
going 8:3 12:7 34:7 implicate 26:11 48:20 49:10
42:9 16:8 20:19,20 30:23 31:5 27:13 infinite 18:12
21:1 22:8,20 40:6,6 implication 6:25 35:9,11
24:19,23 happening 41:5 imply 8:10 inform 37:2
47:1,11 51:6,7 hard 5:20 inadequate initially 3:19
27:3 32:21,23 39:9 54:19 41:15 innocence 52:1
38:4,22 39:14 51:24 hear 3:3 incompetent inquiries 41:16
44:19 52:5 heard 14:9 47:19 49:11 inquiry 43:6,7
5:7 government 7:3 41:10 42:13 incorrect 24:4 insistence 3:22
7:19 8:4 44:21 45:8,12 hearings 28:13 indicate 15:24 insofar 35:1
24:9,13 45:16 28:16 indicates 41:8 instance 30:23
grant 36:17 held 25:25 indication 30:8 interest 12:3,8
37:1 granted 37:13 hide 52:19 indigent 50:16 26:12
ground 15:7 high 24:5 53:24 individual 47:19 interests 4:21
17:8 grounded 50:15 hold 5:14 11:8 3:18 4:15,17 intervals 10:20
33:2,3,15 grounds 11:16 holding 8:8 5:12 6:3 8:7,16 invidious 53:2
guess 12:9 31:25 Honor 4:24 5:18 8:19,23 9:2,13 involve 16:8
34:2,25 32:16 40:22 6:20 7:7,24 9:5 9:20,24 10:5 52:1
47:13 41:25 9:15,23 10:6 11:5 13:12 involved 42:15
53:17 10:18,21,24 14:10,21,24 involves 23:7
36:22 habeas 7:4,5 13:13 14:12 20:10,20 21:11 irrevocably
54:5 17:2,11 22:3 16:14 17:14 23:15,18 24:15 issue 3:21 7:25
50:20 47:2 49:8 19:20 20:18 25:17 27:1,19 14:11 17:6,7
52:12,14,16,17 21:4 22:1,4,17 27:21,23 28:1 22:21 24:23
38:12 25:4,12,18 41:7,21 46:8 leaving 53:5 50:25 51:3
26:2,4,7,14 KENT 1:18 2:6 led 36:8 looked 4:15
44:5,7 27:8,15 28:3,5 26:5 leg 11:22 looking 22:21
48:7 28:8,17,20,23 kind 5:19 9:8 lens 32:5 30:21 32:6
30:3,14,24 52:1 level 15:15 lose 33:3
42:7 31:13 32:13,15 kinds 34:10 Levitt 28:23 lot 26:18 34:14
32:19 33:7,11 know 7:4 12:13 29:1,8 30:4 47:2
34:18 12:15,16,18,19 54:19 lower 23:12
44:23 37:1,14,24 26:20 27:9 likelihood 50:3 M
23:8 39:1,8,22 40:8 33:7 41:8 7:12,16 maintained 38:6
24:10 40:17,18 41:7 48:13 51:8 limitations majority 28:19
41:7,21 42:5 52:5 18:13 53:16
42:15,18,22,23 limited 7:22 8:6 making 9:1 46:4
48:11 43:13,18,21 L 8:9 9:1,16 47:8
44:20 45:1,11 L 1:6 44:14 MARIANO 1:3
48:6,18,25 labeling 43:8 27:6 47:3 25:12 29:11
33:21 50:13,24 51:3 lack 21:18 line 18:18,24,25 Massaro 5:6
4:9,12,21 53:15,20,23,25 32:18 43:20 19:10,15,18 39:4,8,24
5:1,7,14 54:11,15 55:18 law 19:18 52:8 27:9,10 43:14 52:15 53:3,11
7:2 Justices 45:3 lawyer 9:6 10:2 45:7 49:24 Mathews 23:2
8:4 13:2,5,7,10,11 lines 46:1 matter 1:12
9:10 K 14:6,23 16:24 listen 44:21 17:10 32:2
10:1 Kagan 18:16,21 22:24 23:11 litigant 11:4 52:23 54:3
18:23 23:19,21 31:18,21 32:1 litigate 20:2 55:21
12:2,7 26:14 27:8 32:2,21,22 26:25 27:22 mattered 24:8
36:25 37:14,24 33:2,2,16,17 35:24 matters 9:14
38:9 39:8,22 34:1,2,3 35:15 litigating 35:19 McKane 19:3
14:15 40:8,17 42:23 45:22 47:9,13 litigation 18:12 mean 4:14 7:3
45:3 50:24 47:14,19 48:3 little 5:5 10:14 18:17
51:3,11,22 48:22 49:4,9 live 45:5 24:24 25:19
17:5 52:7 49:16 51:9 locate 51:13 42:5 49:23
Kagan's 41:7 52:6 53:1 52:8,18 53:23
keep 10:16 lawyers 14:1,4 logical 26:24 meant 46:20
keeping 5:20 14:19 24:8 40:14 meritorious
Kennedy 15:19 30:25 34:14 long 20:8 32:9 8:24 30:1 36:9
21:6,20 15:22 16:10 46:21 51:1 longer 5:1 merits 18:10,10
22:2,11 17:19,24 18:7 lawyer's 48:4 look 14:21,25 22:23
38:8,10,15 leads 15:11 16:18 22:20 met 31:25
39:1 40:18 leave 17:19 25:20 50:17,17 minutes 54:12
30:6 27:24 38:12 55:4 prevent 29:16
41:4 oh 14:9,22 15:25 52:22,25 possible 20:19 31:9 40:6
31:10 17:16 33:16 percentage post 29:18 primary 47:22
once 9:22 14:13 12:18 postconviction principle 16:2
55:16 ones 18:15 48:4 54:5 8:12,18,22 19:19,23 47:3
46:9 permissible 53:5 13:17 15:18 prior 31:6 47:15
34:5 opinion 15:2 45:25 19:4 20:2 23:9 prisoner 12:23
44:8 opportunity 4:3 person 20:23,25 24:9 26:25 46:3
5:2 6:24 8:12 21:2 37:15,19 27:1,14 28:11 pro 11:4 46:22
opposed 41:2 petitioner 1:4,17 43:23 44:13 probably 7:13
oral 1:12 2:2,5,8 3:22 5:15 8:17 48:21 49:14,23 53:7
ought 51:16 44:16 45:18 54:22,25 35:12,17 47:23
55:3 overruling 18:10 46:2 18:14 52:23 problems 18:12
37:10 P pick 53:11 precedent 34:12 32:5,10 33:10
53:17,25 P 3:1 piece 34:8 34:17 35:21 35:23 36:3
5:19 6:14 purposes 54:21 44:5,9,13,14 regular 37:15 resolved 31:4
8:18,22 54:25 47:2 52:12,13 39:23 resources 45:19
18:3,19 pursue 8:2 9:21 raises 28:12 rejected 27:2 respect 3:23
26:25 25:21 37:4 raising 35:2 54:7 5:12
32:23,25 50:6 36:9 53:1 related 8:17 Respondent
36:18 pursuing 9:24 ramifications relating 38:25 1:19,23 2:7,11
40:25 9:25 4:22 relevant 42:24 26:6 44:25
42:2,2,4 put 40:2 51:7 rare 39:5 43:3 Respondents
53:13,17 rarely 23:23 reliance 12:3,8 55:14
47:5,14 putting 39:10 rational 43:14 26:12 response 46:25
49:14,19 52:21 rationale 38:16 relief 3:11,16,20 rest 11:25
50:11 p.m 55:20 read 34:8 8:18,20 11:18 result 24:4
real 45:5 28:24 30:2 28:15
question 9:10 11:24 24:6 relieve 34:13 4:1,4 5:25 6:23
14:20 12:21 14:4,18 25:5 27:5 relitigation 6:24 7:25 9:16
21:8 17:10 30:4 38:23 40:18 48:16 13:1,11 16:5,8
44:13 32:20 33:12 43:3 44:17 relocate 51:20 16:19 19:11,17
48:12 36:1 37:22 54:18 remained 37:7 20:6 22:6,8,23
38:15 39:19 reason 11:8 remaining 37:10 22:25 24:4
33:10 49:13,20 51:17 29:24 30:4,18 remand 39:13 31:18 32:2
39:10 52:9 30:19 42:23 39:16 33:1 34:2
questions 32:19 43:2 49:22 reply 46:25 37:18 38:2,5
48:5,15 45:4 55:5 51:24 53:2 represent 9:3,12 40:11 41:2,3
quite 18:11 42:6 reasons 39:9 46:21 54:20 43:11 50:23
15:11 raise 5:2 7:20 recall 37:8,10 representing reviewing 31:11
50:1 10:4 14:11 received 29:6 36:4 25:4
33:9 28:1 30:9 31:2 21:16 39:24 11:16 22:22 5:21,22 6:10
31:8 32:7 recommended 26:25 46:18 7:1,10,24 9:1
48:20,22,24 record 28:21 required 10:2 13:22 14:17
25:16 49:15 52:23 37:23 42:9 requirement 16:15,15 17:5
54:4 22:13 24:22 54:17,18 requires 9:25 21:22 22:3,11
25:1 save 52:25 set 7:15 38:17 53:23,25 statistical 46:14
26:1 saw 29:17 settled 45:6 sounded 14:16 statistics 23:22
31:2,13 saying 8:25 9:5 sheets 10:17 Spanish 29:7 28:15
32:3 11:21 14:9,16 shift 35:17 speak 29:7 statute 7:12,13
16:11 18:17 shifting 34:19 specific 37:8 7:16
19:6,14 29:7 45:19 spotted 25:7 statutes 6:15
41:22 40:9 46:1,19 short 37:12 Spreitz 31:6 54:2
45:9,13 47:12 48:23 shot 33:24 34:15 stage 46:19 stay 31:9 42:2
48:1,8 49:3 54:8,9 show 36:5 stand 4:6 stayed 55:1
50:13 says 9:11 11:5 showing 46:6 standard 53:24 sticking 23:17
53:12 11:17 16:23 shuttle 37:17 standpoint 33:9 sticks 27:11
55:8,15 30:15 32:24 significant stands 19:18 Stone 52:10
3:6 21:20,24 22:2 simply 10:3 5:19,25 6:11 straighten 54:16
42:15,18,22 28:25 41:19 6:13,14,15,23 strange 41:16,24
10:1 20:4 se 11:4 46:22 situation 5:4 9:6 10:2,15,22 30:18
second 13:9 6:21,22 9:8 10:25 11:9,21 Strickland
26:2,4 15:18 16:13,16 10:7 24:3 11:23 14:3,8 53:24
44:20 18:4 22:25 26:21 36:19 16:19,22 19:2 strict 6:17
54:11 26:25 27:13,16 Sixth 5:22 22:5,13 26:15 structure 39:25
28:21 32:22 sleeping 48:12 28:10 32:24 submit 11:1,6
16:22 second-opport... Solicitor 1:20 39:11,25 40:5 subset 45:20
22:8,23 solution 7:9 48:13 51:5,12 substance 4:8
27:2 secured 27:16 someplace 19:15 53:9 succeed 23:23
36:21 see 14:22 30:15 19:22 statements 11:1 successive 6:16
43:15 48:19 somewhat 36:16 States 1:1,13,22 6:19
27:6 seeking 44:16 15:8 16:23 11:12 12:4,8 suggest 23:22
30:5 send 42:8 23:20 24:19 12:11,19 14:1 suggested 46:10
44:11,16 sending 42:10 37:9 21:14 26:21 suggesting
46:3,9 sense 4:14 11:14 Sotomayor 11:2 34:13 39:11 41:18,21 46:10
48:13 31:2 35:10 11:20 12:2,7 41:8 44:12,24 suggestion
23:2 24:8,25 transcript 25:15 41:10 45:24 9:13 12:25
27:5,20 28:19 trial 3:14,15,18 18:17 18:7 31:14
7:7,11 31:2 32:4 33:8 5:21,23 6:3 2:10 44:24 37:4 45:3
11:4 33:20,23 34:16 8:19,23 10:9 untethered 55:14
20:5,17 35:8 36:11,17 10:15 14:23,25 35:19 wanted 30:9
28:10 37:25 38:1,1,4 16:9,21 21:2 unusual 31:10 55:4
51:8 38:4,13,20 23:7,11,14,16 unworkable wants 8:2,17
39:4,19,20 23:20 24:10,14 20:10 13:10 31:21
24:17 25:2,15 urging 4:17,22 32:16
51:6 46:9,16,17 33:25 35:3,4 32:9 38:9
48:18 49:12 36:6 38:3 V 39:23,25 49:4
18:3 thinking 34:9 48:15,20 49:11 valid 25:6 went 36:3
thinks 31:17 51:16 variety 42:7 we'll 3:3 31:14
24:17 25:5 trouble 52:25 viable 24:23 14:12 16:23
31:19 Try 38:9,9 view 5:3 14:5 32:6 33:23
54:11 threshold 10:3 Tuesday 1:10 viewed 32:5 50:19 51:6,7
tier 16:6 19:17 turn 6:7 18:14 views 29:25 52:21,25 53:13
18:11 time 5:20 10:17 14:13 22:4 7:15 wherewithal
37:1,6,7,9,11 type 24:14 36:19 win 14:17 34:5
38:7 42:10 43:24 53:4 Wainwright winning 15:2
54:16 48:9 49:9,15 51:15 53:6 walk 46:3 wished 5:9 7:18
29 45:14
32 29:4,22 30:5
50:7,11 4 1:10
2:14
6:3 8:6
39:2
1:5 3:4
5:24 14:7
14:19,19
1:14 3:2
10:20
55:20
45:13
14:9,10,24
54:12
1:10
4:13,17,19
5:10 8:11
11:15
2:7
