IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ALEX BLUEFORD, :
Petitioner : No. 10-1320
v. :
ARKANSAS. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, February 22, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:22 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CLIFFORD M. SLOAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
Petitioner.
DUSTIN MCDANIEL, ESQ., Attorney General, Little Rock,
Arkansas; for Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CLIFFORD M. SLOAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DUSTIN MCDANIEL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CLIFFORD M. SLOAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:22 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 10-1320, Blueford v. Arkansas.
Mr. Sloan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CLIFFORD M. SLOAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SLOAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The question in this case is whether the
jury foreperson's announcement that the jury had voted
unanimously that Petitioner was not guilty of capital
murder and first-degree murder has double jeopardy
consequences. We respectfully submit that it does, for
two reasons.
First, the foreperson's announcement on this
record establishes an acquittal; and, second, even if it
is not viewed as an acquittal, under this Court's
well-established standard, there was not manifest
necessity for a second trial on the same murder charges.
Now, with regard to the acquittal, the
reasons why the foreperson's announcement was an
acquittal are twofold: First, the foreperson's
announcement was clear and explicit that the jury had
voted unanimously against guilt; and, second --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that -- is that
altogether clear, because she first said -- didn't she
first say that the jury cannot agree on any one charge?
MR. SLOAN: Yes, Your Honor. And then the
court specifically asked what is the count on capital
murder? And she said unanimous against that. What is
the count on first-degree murder? Unanimous against
that. And both the Arkansas trial court and the
Arkansas Supreme Court here observed that the foreperson
has been explicit that the jury had voted unanimously
against --.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's the count. The
jury takes lots of votes. Was it utterly clear that the
jury could not go back and reconsider that? Unless that
was absolutely clear, it seems to me a verdict had not
been announced. She just said how we voted the last
time.
MR. SLOAN: With regard to finality, Your
Honor, I think that -- that the jury could have changed
its mind, but I want to emphasize the reason I say that
because I think it highlights something very important
that is conspicuously absent here; and three brief
points on that, Your Honor.
First, when the foreperson announced that
the jury had voted unanimously against guilt on the
murder charges, she was announcing a jury decision.
There was nothing equivocal or qualified about that.
Second, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Excuse me.
When you say she was announcing a decision, then you
mean they can't go back on it?
MR. SLOAN: No, that was -- well, that's
my second --
JUSTICE SCALIA: She was announcing a vote.
MR. SLOAN: Yes. She was announcing the
decision that they had made at that point. But the
reason -- my second point, Your Honor, the reason why I
say that they could have gone back is the historic
traditional principle that a jury can correct or revise
a verdict while it continues to be sitting.
Now, in this Court's opinion, in Smith v.
Massachusetts, this Court talked about that traditional
and historic principle, cited an English case from 1824,
the Parkin case, where the jury had done that, had gone
back after announcing a verdict. And how that would
play out here, if the jury came back and they said, you
know, we were unanimous before, but now one juror says
that he doesn't really agree with that, then, of course,
a court could take that into account.
JUSTICE ALITO: I think you've conceded away
your case when you say that. The one characteristic of
a verdict that seems perfectly clear to me is that it is
final.
The jury can't render a verdict and be
discharged and then come back the next day and say, you
know what, some of us -- one of us has changed his mind
or her mind. It's the final vote. And so, why isn't
the critical question here whether what the -- what the
foreperson said was this is our final vote, we're not
going to go back, this is it; or this is the way we
voted now, and it's -- one or more of us may have wanted
to -- wanted to retain the right, reserve the right, to
go back and -- and vote again.
MR. SLOAN: Because the -- the reason why I
think the announcement was an acquittal here is twofold:
First, there was the explicit statement of -- of what
the vote was at that time; but, second, there is nothing
on the record in this case that contradicts that
statement. At the time the jury was discharged and at
the time the trial ended, the jury had said nothing that
contradicted that earlier statement.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the -- suppose the
court said, after this colloquy, I want you to go back
and think about this whole case again. Could the jurors
then have revisited the first count?
MR. SLOAN: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The capital murder count?
MR. SLOAN: Your Honor, if -- if the jurors
had come back and said --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. The colloquy is what
we've got.
MR. SLOAN: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And the judge said I want
you to deliberate more about this entire case. (A) was
he permitted to do that under Arkansas law, I guess is
one of my real questions.
MR. SLOAN: Oh. Well, in terms -- in terms
of Arkansas law and the particular transition
instructions here, no, we don't think that the
transition instructions operate that way, Your Honor.
There's nothing in the instructions that say that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Nothing -- nothing --
Arkansas law doesn't permit the jury to -- before it's
delivered its final formal verdict, to think about the
case again and vote on it again?
MR. SLOAN: No. It -- it does, Your Honor,
and that's why I'm trying to draw a distinction between
how the transition instructions here operate, the sort
of acquittal-first instructions, and the general
principle that a jury can correct or revise its verdict.
I mean, in a sense, one way to think about --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but I -- I think
this may be what Justice Alito asked. Well, I -- I
don't think it gave a verdict here. I don't think it's
revising its verdict.
MR. SLOAN: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's mid-deliberation, as
Justice -- Justice Scalia said at the outset.
MR. SLOAN: There -- there's nothing in the
jury statement at all that suggested that it was
tentative. It said we have unanimously voted against
guilt on the murder charges.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, one --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then they went -- then
they went out again.
MR. SLOAN: Pardon me?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that's the problem.
They, the jury -- the judge gave them an Allen charge,
and they went out again. And I think you have
recognized that the jury could have then said we'll go
back to square one, we'll consider capital murder,
first-degree murder.
So, they -- I think you recognize that after
the judge gives them a charge of this kind, they can
begin all over again. And here, when they came in and
said we -- we can't agree, defense counsel didn't ask to
have the jury polled.
MR. SLOAN: The -- the defense counsel asked
for verdict forms to be sent into the jury room that
would allow them to record their verdicts on the murder
charges. And that's a very important point here, Your
Honor, because it was the State that prevented any
additional elucidation about what the jury thought on
the murder charges.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that -- so long as it's
still tentative thoughts, it doesn't matter. The jury
could have -- suppose the jury went back after this
announcement -- you know, we -- you know, we've decided
on a -- on the greater charge, or we voted on the
greater charge for the defendant. Suppose they go back
and one of the people who wants to convict on the lesser
charge, as to which they are deadlocked, finally says,
well, look it, if you won't come along to convict him on
the lesser charge, by God, I'm not -- I'm not going to
acquit on the greater charge.
Isn't that the kind of stuff that goes on in
jury rooms all the time?
MR. SLOAN: Yes, it does, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, there is no certainty
whatever that -- that what was the vote at that time
would be the vote when they finally got done.
MR. SLOAN: Well, but, Your Honor, on the
record as the case comes to this Court, what you have is
this very clear and explicit statement against guilt on
the murder charges and then nothing in what the jury
says when it comes back that contradicts that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I guess one --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I thought that
part of your argument was that, given the instructions
in this case, which the jury appears to have followed to
the T, they can't get to a lesser count unless they've
acquitted on the preceding count.
MR. SLOAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: When the judge asks
them, did you reach criminal negligence, they say we
were told not to.
Now, the judge, whether he was right or
wrong under Hughes as to whether they followed the
instructions or he misunderstood them, I don't know.
But it's very clear in context from the government's
arguments to the jury, to the defense argument to the
jury, you don't reach the split count or even talk about
it unless you've been acquitted.
So, given that the jury responds at the end
we haven't reached a verdict, and the jury said earlier
that they hadn't reached a verdict on the one issue,
isn't the -- the only assumption is that they didn't go
back?
MR. SLOAN: Yes, I think that's exactly
right, Your Honor, because the jury instructions very
explicitly said that you don't go to a lesser offense
unless you have a reasonable doubt on the greater
offense. The State --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's --
MR. SLOAN: -- over and over --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Go
ahead.
MR. SLOAN: I was just going to say the
State over and over again in its closing argument said
to the jury you cannot reach a lesser offense unless you
unanimously find the defendant not guilty on the greater
offense. And as you point out, the Arkansas Supreme
Court in the Hughes case has said that the law in
Arkansas is that you don't get to a lesser offense
unless -- the jury doesn't get to a lesser offense
unless it in essence acquits on the greater offense.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right, but that's
the final say. You don't know what the jury did as a
preliminary matter. I would think it in a case like
this perfectly reasonable for the jury to say: Let's
take a preliminary vote; we'll go down; and if -- if we
all agree on something right away, that's what we'll do.
Does everybody agree on capital murder? No,
some don't. Does everybody agree on murder? No. Does
everybody agree on manslaughter? Yes. Okay, we all
know that manslaughter, he's at least guilty. Now let's
go back and talk about the more serious offense, and
some of us will try to persuade the holdouts.
And yet, you would say as soon as they
reached the point of saying, yes, he's guilty on
manslaughter, they can't go back.
MR. SLOAN: Well, the instructions don't
provide for them to -- for them to go back. The State,
which had never made that argument until this Court in
this litigation, that they can go back, doesn't point to
any case that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but then I'm not
sure it's just a matter of State law then, we're --
what we're doing here is talking about the
constitutional minimum. And I -- Justice Scalia gave a
hypothetical, you can have a more -- even a more
principled juror than that. He says, you know, now that
we're thinking about manslaughter, it is true that thus
and so happened; maybe we were wrong on the first --
first-degree count. I mean, that's perfectly plausible.
MR. SLOAN: Well, let me say, whatever one
thinks about finality -- and I do think there was
sufficient finality here for the reasons we have been
discussing, but whatever one thinks about finality,
let's consider this in the context of manifest necessity
because whatever one thinks of finality, I submit that
it is clear that when a jury foreperson stands up in
front of the jury, in front of the defendant, lawyers
for both sides, and says we have voted unanimously that
he is not guilty of these murder charges, that is
something at the very core of the Double Jeopardy
Clause --
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you saying --
MR. SLOAN: -- at the heartland of it.
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you saying that there
was no manifest necessity to declare a mistrial as to
any count, in which case there could be no retrial
whatsoever, or no manifest necessity to declare a
mistrial on capital murder? And if you're saying the
latter, then what would you have us do with the decision
by the Arkansas Supreme Court that Arkansas law does not
allow a partial verdict?
MR. SLOAN: Okay. Your Honor, so, first I'm
saying only that there was no manifest necessity as to
capital murder and first-degree murder, which were the
two charges on which they were unanimous. We agree he
can be retried on manslaughter and negligent homicide.
Now, as to the Arkansas Supreme Court
decision on that -- and that brings up a very important
point because the State's position essentially is it
could never be final enough, as Your Honor suggests,
because it simply is impermissible under Arkansas law to
have an acquittal on a greater offense as long as you're
deadlocked on a lesser offense.
And as to that, this Court's opinions are
clear that if you have a State law that prevents giving
effect to what is in substance an acquittal, it must
yield to the Federal constitutional command of the
Double Jeopardy Clause.
And Hudson v. Louisiana is very instructive
on this point because, in Hudson, Louisiana had a law
that after a conviction, a judge could not enter an
acquittal order; he could only enter a new trial order.
And after the conviction on murder in Hudson, the judge
entered a new trial order and explained that it was
because of insufficient evidence.
And this Court unanimously said that that
substantively was an acquittal; it has full double
jeopardy consequences, notwithstanding the fact that
Louisiana law does not allow a judge to enter an
acquittal order --
JUSTICE BREYER: What's bothering me is I
can't figure this out very well. We have an imaginary
State, and what the State says to the jury: Jury, you
have three choices. Choice one is you acquit this
person of everything. Choice two is you convict him of
something. Choice three is you say you're hung. Okay?
I don't see anything in the Constitution
that prevents a State from doing that. So, if that --
if no -- what is it? And, of course, if you follow
that, there was no acquittal on those early charges.
That wasn't a permissible verdict. And now you
structure your argument any way you want, but that
the State has -- I would think, within the limits of due
process, it can structure the jury's arguments as it
wishes.
But -- so, what's wrong with that? And if
that -- if there's nothing wrong with that, then how do
you win?
MR. SLOAN: Okay, Your Honor. Two points:
One that focuses on the jury foreperson's announcement
here --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you could say, well,
you could -- well, that's one route. What you say is
nothing wrong with that. But if the judge is foolish
enough to get the jury -- to get the foreperson to say
what the state of the deliberation is in detail, then
the Double Jeopardy Clause kicks in. Well, that's an
argument.
MR. SLOAN: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, they make a mistake and
now suddenly it's jeopardy where it wasn't before,
or -- this seems like a minor matter compared to the
issues of jeopardy, whether the jury honestly said what
was going on in the room, particularly if it's
changeable.
MR. SLOAN: With respect, Your Honor, I
disagree that it's a minor matter when a foreperson
stands up, with the jury present, and says we have voted
not guilty. And as to that, with an announcement -- for
example, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court
decision in the Roth case, which is in the briefs, is
instructive because in that case the Massachusetts court
said very emphatically you should not ask a jury that
kind of question, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, let's -- go
ahead.
MR. SLOAN: But -- may I just finish --
JUSTICE BREYER: Please.
MR. SLOAN: -- the sentence, Your Honor?
But in that case, the trial court had asked
the jury, and the foreperson had said that they had
voted against guilt on the greater offenses. And so,
the Massachusetts court said, if the -- essentially,
these are my words -- but if the Double Jeopardy Clause
means anything, it means that when you have an
announcement like that, it has to matter.
And the other point, Your Honor, is that
this Court's opinions such as Fong Foo and Sanabria say
that it doesn't matter if an acquittal is on an
erroneous basis. Once it happens, we give full double
jeopardy consequence to it. So, even if one thinks that
the judge shouldn't have asked the question and it would
have been permissible not to ask the question, once he
did and once that's on the record, that is of
considerable constitutional --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Only if --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why should there --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Only if -- and I think this
is the premise of your argument. Only if there is a
constitutional necessity to -- to sever the various
charges, there is a constitutional necessity to let the
jury come in on one charge without coming in on the
other. It seems to me that's the premise of your
argument. And I don't know where that constitutional
necessity comes from.
MR. SLOAN: Well, Your Honor, first, on the
manifest necessity point, when there is an
announcement like this, because --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Your manifest necessity
depends upon the necessity of severing, yes. If you
sever, then there is no manifest necessity of
resubmitting the greater charge. But it assumes -- it
assumes a severing, and I don't know where the severing
comes from.
MR. SLOAN: The -- the manifest necessity
argument is that when there is an announcement like this
that goes right to the core of double jeopardy -- and,
you know, we know that with greater and lesser included
offenses, if there is a basis for an acquittal, then
that has to be given effect on the separate charges.
That's Green and Price.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's -- but that's
after a verdict. Why is it that the purposes of the
Double Jeopardy Clause are implicated when a jury,
before it delivers a final verdict, says where -- where
it is mid -- mid-deliberations? The defendant, of
course, is terribly disappointed if they go back and
then find him guilty. So, I guess there's a personal
disappointment interest for the few hours that it takes
for the jury to come to a different verdict, but he
doesn't have to prepare the defense again; he doesn't
have to go to trial again. It's all one trial.
I don't see why there's a double jeopardy
interest in the Massachusetts case that you point out.
I don't see where the double jeopardy interest was in
saying that you can't go back.
MR. SLOAN: Well, because --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what --
MR. SLOAN: It's not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What purpose of the Double
Jeopardy Clause is implicated by the rule that says you
can't go back?
MR. SLOAN: Well, Your Honor, on the
manifest necessity point, I'm not saying you can't get
back. What I am saying is that when you have an
announcement of such constitutional moment at the
heartland of the Double Jeopardy Clause, a judge can do
many things --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm asking why it's the
heartland of the Double Jeopardy Clause.
MR. SLOAN: Well, because this Court --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I question that.
MR. SLOAN: Yes, Your Honor. Because this
Court, again and again, has talked about the special
role of an acquittal where a jury finds the defendant
not guilty. Now, even if one views that as not final,
it surely is significant at the heartland of the Double
Jeopardy --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why "surely"?
MR. SLOAN: Pardon?
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, why "surely"?
Look, the thing ends. To go back to my example, the
case is over, the jury comes in and says, Judge, we're
hung. Okay? Everybody is going to go home.
MR. SLOAN: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: But the defense lawyer
says, Judge, I'd like to know which of the five charges
they're on. Does the defense lawyer or the prosecutor
have a constitutional right to find out?
MR. SLOAN: Okay. Well, Your Honor. If one
assumes the foreperson's announcement is not in it or
it's of no consequence -- it's --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm not assuming
anything. I'm giving you the example.
MR. SLOAN: What -- but, no, no -- it's just
what I'm saying. So, there's just the question, does
the defendant have a right to inquire?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. SLOAN: And here --
JUSTICE BREYER: What's the answer?
MR. SLOAN: -- there's -- I would say
definitely, yes, in a hard-transition State. This
is where you get into the --
JUSTICE BREYER: In the State I imagine
is -- remember, there were three possible verdicts:
Acquit of everything, convict of something, or say
you're hung. That's what we're imagining. Okay? And
you can imagine the set of instructions -- go to A, B,
C. That's fair enough. Those four things.
MR. SLOAN: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay? Now, case over,
acquitted -- no, hung, Your Honor.
Defense attorney: I want to find out which
of the five they're on.
Does he have a constitutional right to get
the answer?
MR. SLOAN: He does, if --
JUSTICE BREYER: He does?
MR. SLOAN: Yes, if it is a hard-transition
State. And the -- or especially if it's a
hard-transition State.
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know what -- I'm
sorry.
MR. SLOAN: Okay. What a hard transition --
or sometimes it's called an "acquittal first" State,
which may put it in relief more, which is where, as in
this case, the jury is told you may go to a lesser
offense --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Okay. I see, okay,
fine.
MR. SLOAN: -- only if you acquit on the
greater offense.
JUSTICE BREYER: In other words, here -- I
got it. If --
MR. SLOAN: And every State court, except
for Arkansas here, that has addressed the issue in the
context of a hard transition, has said that the
defendant does have a right to inquire --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Okay.
MR. SLOAN: That's very different if you
don't have that kind of hard transition.
JUSTICE BREYER: Wait. I'm only midway,
because I'm trying to follow this through. I still
don't know why the Constitution does that, but I'll take
your word for it. I'd assume it was State law that does
that, but -- but fine.
Now he says, yes, you have the right, either
of you has the right.
We're on number three.
Your Honor, I would like a poll of the jury
as to the acquittal as to one and two.
Does both -- do both sides have the right to
get that?
MR. SLOAN: So, after -- after they've
announced an acquittal?
JUSTICE BREYER: No. Well, here's what
happened: Judge, I want to know what number they were
on when they couldn't reach a --
MR. SLOAN: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Foreman: Number five, Your
Honor.
Judge, I would like a poll of the jury, each
juror, as to numbers one, two, three, and four to be
sure that they were unanimous on each as to the
acquittal, which under the instruction allowed them to
go to the next one.
Okay? Constitution requires it?
MR. SLOAN: Well, no. I mean, look, I think
there can be variations in State procedure, but I think
the core --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. Why doesn't the
Constitution require it? You have to be sure there was
an acquittal. You have to be sure there was an
acquittal. And what -- what I'm doing obviously is I'm
spinning out what I see as the constitutional
consequences of taking your constitutional position, and
I'm going to be ending up by saying I've never heard of
this before.
MR. SLOAN: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: But there's a lot of stuff
I haven't heard of. So, that doesn't prove that much.
(Laughter.)
MR. SLOAN: Well, there are several States
that have this, and the reason --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, what do several
States have? I've -- if I read what those States are
saying, including the Massachusetts State that you point
to, it's a very simple rule. And you seem to be arguing
past it or around it or -- I think what they say is,
once the jury announces an acquittal, then that's the
substance; the person's been acquitted once they've made
a judgment and announced it. It -- the Constitution
doesn't -- the Double Jeopardy Clause doesn't entitle
someone to have it announced, doesn't entitle someone to
force the jury to announce it.
But if the jury gets up at the end of the
trial in a State that doesn't permit partial verdicts
and said, contrary to the instructions of the judge,
contrary to the law of the State, the jury says we
acquitted on counts one and two, we're hung on count
three, the Constitution says jeopardy attaches because
there has been an announcement of a verdict. Isn't that
your position?
MR. SLOAN: That's exactly right. There's
another body of case law also which I was addressing,
which talks about when jeopardy attaches even if there's
not that kind of announcement. But, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, Ball -- our case
in Ball says it doesn't matter whether a judgment is
entered or not. As far back as 1896, Ball said the
judgment is irrelevant. It is the verdict of acquittal,
and it basically equated that verdict with -- it doesn't
matter if it's entered properly, if the jury is polled,
if anything happens. It's as soon as the jury announces
acquittal, that's the operative double jeopardy kicker.
Isn't that what you're saying?
MR. SLOAN: Yes. Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And I thought I heard
you arguing that here the lack of manifest necessity was
that the judge had heard they reached that verdict.
MR. SLOAN: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And he should not have
discharged the jury without asking them, could they
reach a verdict that they had -- had they reached the
verdict that they announced?
MR. SLOAN: Yes. From a manifest necessity
perspective, this Court's decisions on manifest
necessity, from United States v. Perez in 1824 through
Renico v. Lett in 2010, have emphasized the judge has to
exercise sound discretion. And to exercise sound
discretion here, the judge could have done many things,
but the one thing he could not do, consistent with sound
discretion, is to do nothing and to proceed as though
that announcement hadn't happened, and --
JUSTICE ALITO: You suggested that the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You've talked about
our manifest necessity decisions. It's true that we --
isn't it, that we said last year we have never reversed
the district courts' exercise of discretion under the
manifest necessity standard?
MR. SLOAN: In the case of a jury deadlock?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. SLOAN: Is what Your Honor is talking
about? Yes, this Court has emphasized the -- the
deference due a district court. But Renico --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In -- and under
that -- I'm sorry. Go ahead.
MR. SLOAN: Renico did not present the
important threshold issue about what are the charges on
which the jury is deadlocked. And here there's an
insufficient basis to conclude that the jury was
deadlocked on the murder charges. There was nothing
like the foreperson's announcement at issue in Renico.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't want to --
I'm sorry for taking up your time, but your friend says
you did not object when the judge announced that he was
going to declare a mistrial; is that correct?
MR. SLOAN: Your Honor, there's not an --
an objection at that time, but that is not a waiver for
a couple of reasons. First, the Arkansas Supreme Court
reached the merits. It's a Federal constitutional
issue.
Second, before that point, defense counsel
had been very explicit that it only wanted a mistrial on
the -- on the remaining counts and not on the other
ones.
And, third, this Court has emphasized that
the distinction in manifest necessity is when the
defendant affirmatively consents or moves for a
mistrial, as opposed to either if the judge does it
sua sponte, and the defendant doesn't have to object, or
the prosecutor moves for it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General McDaniel.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DUSTIN MCDANIEL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. MCDANIEL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
There are three key reasons why jeopardy has
not terminated in this case. First, the jury was free
to revisit capital and first-degree murder when it
resumed its deliberations. Thus --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Where does it say that in
the jury charge?
MR. MCDANIEL: I think that there's a
critical misunderstanding by Petitioner of Arkansas's
jury instructions, and there's a lot of use of -- of
titles, such as "acquittal first" or "hard transition"
or "soft transition."
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, as I understand what
the Arkansas instructions said, what the instructions in
this case said, is that the jury unanimously had to have
a reasonable doubt on an offense before it could go down
to the next offense. So, that's to say that the jury
unanimously had to find what is -- what leads to an
acquittal. So, the jury had to unanimously acquit on
the greater offense before it could go down to the next.
And the -- the instructions don't say
anything about moving back up. And this jury seems to
take its responsibility under these instructions
extraordinarily seriously. This jury was instructing
the judge on the instructions --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- and about how they had to
go down step by step and reach unanimity on the one
before they could get to the next lowest down. So, I
guess I'm asking why do you think, under these
instructions, that the jury felt itself able to go back
up?
MR. MCDANIEL: Well, there are three primary
reasons. One, in States that are acquittal-first
States, States that truly require a resolution of each
charge before the transition to subsequent charges, they
use words like "unanimous." In fact, they all use the
word "unanimous" in their instruction. Arkansas doesn't
do that. We use a rather ambiguous, or unambiguous,
depending on how you look at it --
JUSTICE KAGAN: The chief prosecutor kept
saying: You all have to agree on this.
MR. MCDANIEL: And he was accurate, and he
was echoed by the defense counsel in her closing
argument as well. But there is no requirement of a
resolution. The jury verdict forms reflect that
perfectly.
In fact, Justice Breyer's example of a given
State is exactly what Arkansas does, as compared to a --
a true acquittal-first State, where there are multiple
jury verdict forms, where you truly resolve one charge
attaching final resolution and, in fact, attaching
jeopardy or terminating jeopardy at that point.
In this case, there is one verdict form.
You can decide something --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I'm so
totally confused by you ignoring Hughes.
MR. MCDANIEL: I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The Arkansas charge
says: If you have a reasonable doubt of the defendant's
guilt on the charge of capital murder, you will consider
the charge of murder in the first degree.
And I thought the Arkansas cases said no one
juror is going to think they can go to the next count.
They have to understand from this charge that it has to
be unanimous. And that's what the prosecutor argued.
It's what the defense argued. It's what your supreme
court has said has to happen. I'm a little confused,
given your case law, your supreme court case law, that
says you can't move on to the next one unless it's
unanimous, how you can answer Justice Kagan's question
the way you have. I mean, there's nothing in your case
law that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You didn't finish your
answer, did you? I thought you were going on to some
other points.
MR. MCDANIEL: I did. And, in fact, I think
that Hughes is extraordinarily important. And,
respectfully, I believe that the Petitioner has
mischaracterized Hughes. There is a line of dicta in
Hughes that is particularly useful in the Petitioner's
brief, but it is Justice Corbin of the Arkansas Supreme
Court who authored Hughes, who was rejecting a double
jeopardy claim in Hughes and, in fact, invoked this line
which says -- what has been quoted in the briefs. It is
Justice Corbin who was presented with this exact same
argument to interpret the instructions in Blueford and
authored Blueford and rejected what allegedly was his
position on the instructions. Hughes was not about the
instructions. No part of Hughes was asked to interpret
what our instructions are.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I think if you -- if you
look at what the -- what the judge said, what the
prosecutor said, what the defense counsel said, and then
what the jury said, it's clear that they all thought
that they had to unanimously agree on something before
they could go to the next crime. And, again, there's no
suggestion in what anybody said that they could go back
up.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there any suggestion
that they couldn't go back up?
MR. MCDANIEL: That is extraordinarily
important, Justice Scalia. There's not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't it usually assumed
that a jury is not finished until it's finished?
MR. MCDANIEL: The State would assert that
that is precisely the case here. You have exactly the
type of jury verdict form that Justice Breyer suggested
in his example. They have to decide on something. You
have one charge, capital murder and its lesser -- lesser
and includeds.
This person, Mr. Blueford, does not deny
that he is guilty of a homicide offense. That was
included in their closing argument. Does not deny that
he's subject to retrial because there was manifest
necessity on at least two of the charges. They simply
would like to say that there was not manifest necessity
for the greater of the two.
And the only way that that happens is
either -- to answer, I believe it was Justice Kennedy's
hypothetical earlier -- are you required to go in and
engage in partial verdicts even if a State does not
choose to do so, even if a State is, in fact, a general
verdict State?
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, even if, General --
MR. MCDANIEL: Or --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Even if you're not
required -- and maybe you are required -- but even if
you're not, here the jury comes back. The jury tells
the judge we've unanimously reached acquittal on these
two counts. At that point, why doesn't the judge have
an obligation -- you know, the judge sends them back for
a half hour. There's no reason to think that in that
half hour they moved back up the scale. There's every
reason to think they just remained stuck where they
were.
But even assuming that there is some
conceivable possibility that they went back up, why
doesn't the judge, working with the manifest necessity
standard, have an obligation to say, well, what about
it? Did you? Did you reach acquittal? Did you reach a
judgment on these two counts?
MR. MCDANIEL: Well, there are a couple of
reasons. One, I think it's fair to say that the State
recognizes it was improper for the judge to inquire in
the way that he did. I think that it's fair to say that
he recognized that it was improper, as he didn't do it
on their first announcement of deadlock and he didn't do
it on their final announcement of deadlock.
It's important to note that, although
defense counsel at trial did ask for revised verdict
forms, that was not her initial reaction. Her initial
reaction was to say, judge, I think that the jury needs
to go back and keep deliberating, and I would ask that
you give them another Allen charge. That's not the
reaction that anyone would have if they had just heard
an acquittal of their client. This was, in fact, a
mid-deliberation report, probably wrongfully elicited by
the trial judge, but it was just that, a snapshot in
time with no intent by the jury to make an announcement.
So, when they returned, the real question, I
think, hinges -- as this Court analyzed in Smith v.
Massachusetts, is, is it possible for there to be
revision? And it doesn't, in fact, Justice Kagan, have
to be the entirety of the jury completely pivoting in
their decisions. All it would have to be is one. And
we recognize that, even after they have announced
unanimously, signed a verdict form, offered their
assent, if they're polled in the box and one person
changes their vote, then that bears the effect of
changing the verdict.
So, is it possible? Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would this be different
if they had -- if the judge had called them back in and
said, are you deadlocked on the third count? And -- my
hypothetical to your adversary. And they said: Well,
we have acquitted on capital murder. We've acquitted on
the second count. We are still, Judge, deadlocked.
If this had been announced at the very end,
what would be your position today?
MR. MCDANIEL: Certainly, there would be --
it would be a tougher case if everything ended at that
moment because, at that point, counsel would have to ask
the trial court, if you're declaring a mistrial at this
moment on this report, what are you going to do? Are
you going to accept this or are you not going to accept
it? Will there be an opportunity for polling?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Doesn't sound like the
judge was interested in any of the defense counsel's
positions on mistrial. He announced that whether the
jury told him they were deadlocked or not, he was going
to call them back.
So, I don't know that the judge would have
done what you suggested.
MR. MCDANIEL: It's --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because a judge -- the
defense attorney did ask for partial verdicts after
their first announcement.
MR. MCDANIEL: And, Justice Sotomayor, they
were -- they were rightly rejected. Partial -- partial
verdicts are not contemplated in Arkansas law. It would
have been error for him to engage in partial verdicts at
that time. And there's nothing in the Fifth Amendment
that would require this Court to intrude upon the
liberty of the States to determine whether they're
general --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, if the State rule
says we don't take partial verdicts and the judge had
entered a verdict -- a judgment -- declared a mistrial
or entered a judgment saying hung jury as to all counts,
would jeopardy have attached?
MR. MCDANIEL: If there's a hung jury as to
all counts, then --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. If the jury had
announced what it did, but following Arkansas law as you
read it, you don't take partial verdicts, it could only
be one hung jury.
MR. MCDANIEL: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would jeopardy have
attached?
MR. MCDANIEL: No. If there's manifest
necessity for a mistrial, and in this case there's one
charge, one homicide offense, and as this Court has long
recognized, Brown v. Ohio being a key -- a key
analysis --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, really the only
issue here is whether it's reasonable to conclude that a
jury that had been told acquit first comes back and says
we're only hung on this, and the jury says listen to
each other on what your hung on, that that jury
reasonably -- the judge could have ignored their stated
verdict and enter a trial -- a mistrial on everything
else.
MR. MCDANIEL: Respectfully, Justice
Sotomayor, they were not told acquit first.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't agree --
MR. MCDANIEL: That is a -- a subtle but key
distinction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't agree -- I don't
think you agree that it was their stated verdict, do
you?
MR. MCDANIEL: I absolutely do not. It was
not a verdict. And bears none of the hallmarks.
JUSTICE BREYER: There is no room in Arkansas
law for saying you're acquitted as to one, acquitted as
to two. But Arkansas law says you come in with a
verdict of guilty of something, a verdict of acquittal
of everything, or the words "hung jury." Is that right?
MR. MCDANIEL: Well, it's not up to the jury
to determine whether they're hung.
JUSTICE BREYER: No. They say to the judge,
Judge, we are hung. Judge says "hung jury."
MR. MCDANIEL: That is correct, Justice
Breyer. That is correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess, General McDaniel,
one question about what Arkansas law does is -- it seems
a little bit as if it's trying to get the sweet of an
acquittal for a State without the bitter. So, the sweet
is an acquittal-first system, where you force a jury to
reach agreement on one thing before it goes to the next
thing, makes compromised jury verdicts harder, and
that's why a State might say we want an acquittal-first
system.
The bitter that most States take with that
is that they say, well, if we're forcing them to agree
on these things and they agree on a verdict of not
guilty, we're stuck with that.
Now, what Arkansas seems to want is a system
in which it forces juries to agree on the -- the greater
charges before going to the less, but won't take the
consequence of that, which is that sometimes they agree
that on the greater charges, they're not guilty.
MR. MCDANIEL: No, Justice Kagan. The --
the majority of the States and circuits recognize there
is a difference between a hard-transition instruction
and an acquittal-first instruction. They recognize the
difference between a partial verdict and a general
verdict on charges that include lesser and includeds.
And what we require is one verdict on a charge: guilty
or not guilty.
And they are at liberty to consider -- they
can be at the very end -- again, it's very important to
know -- it's wholly speculative in this case to know
where they were when they ultimately were hung. And so,
we are -- we are operating in the world of bright-line
rules, which are very important for jeopardy.
We know when jeopardy attaches. When the
jury is in the box. We know when jury -- or when
jeopardy terminates, and it's when there's some
conclusion with finality. Every case that this Court
has analyzed, even Price and Green and Selvester, where
the jury remained silent, there was some finality that
led to termination of jeopardy.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General McDaniel, in this
case, they deliberated for 4-1/2 hours at the point
where the judge asked them where do you stand on this
count; where do you stand on that? And so, they were up
to the manslaughter, and they were stuck on that. And
the jury foreman said we can't go to negligent
homicide because we haven't reached agreement on -- on
the manslaughter charge. Then they go back for just a
half hour.
How realistic is it to think that they began
over at that point, rather than trying to resolve the
manslaughter charge so they could do exactly what the
judge told them, and then get to the negligent homicide
charge?
MR. MCDANIEL: The State wouldn't venture to
speculate as to what they did, although I would
respectfully say that that is probably what happened.
They went back and they tried to follow the instructions
of the court. That's certainly viewing things in a
light most favorable to the Petitioner, and there's no
evidence --
JUSTICE SCALIA: General McDaniel, how --
how probable is it that when the jury is polled, and
having voted unanimously when they were back in the jury
room, one of the members of the jury changes his mind
and votes the other way? That's not at all probable, is
it? But it happens sometimes, doesn't it?
MR. MCDANIEL: It does.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And when it happens, what's
the result?
MR. MCDANIEL: It -- it bears all of the
difference in the finality of the verdict. And, again,
as this Court noted in Smith, it's the availability;
it's the incorporation within a State's procedure for
that finality to be undone. My Lord, how likely is it
truly for a trial court to completely reverse his or her
granting of a motion of dismissal? But this Court said,
if there's a procedure in place for it to be revisited,
then jeopardy doesn't terminate until the point at which
there's no return.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is this a fair explanation
of Arkansas law, which doesn't seem to me to be
perfectly clear? What the jury is supposed to do is to
vote on the greatest offense first and reach a
reasonably firm vote. And if they reach a reasonably
firm vote that is unanimous not guilty, then they can
move on to the next -- to the lower offenses, but that
reasonably firm vote is not an absolutely final vote,
and there is still the possibility for the jury to go
back.
MR. MCDANIEL: Yes, Justice --
JUSTICE ALITO: Is that a correct
understanding?
MR. MCDANIEL: Yes, Justice Alito, that's
precisely correct. And, just as Justice Scalia noted
earlier, we recognize that there are compromises that
are incorporated into transitions. One may be willing
to say: I'm willing to move on from first-degree
murder. I'm the only one here that believes that we
should find guilty of first-degree murder, but that's
not going to happen. I'm not going to change your
votes. But I'm willing to move on and go to
manslaughter.
JUSTICE ALITO: For double --
MR. MCDANIEL: But would that vote equate to
an acquittal if asked in -- with finality?
JUSTICE ALITO: For double jeopardy
purposes, is the question what Arkansas law actually
says, or what the jury understood Arkansas law to be?
MR. MCDANIEL: I think what Arkansas law
actually says is how we should be judged, but at the
same time, the evidence here was that the jury came in
to answer questions about the status of their
deliberation. I think that Justice Kagan properly noted
that they were in fact giving the judge some
instructions on how the instructions should work.
And they were answering that question, and
the foreperson -- one person was asked, well, where are
you? And she announces -- and we have no reason to
believe that she was not being truthful. At the same
time, we have no way to verify it. And the defense
counsel said, Judge, I think they ought to be given
another Allen charge, and they need to go keep
deliberating.
And at that point, if they had returned, no
matter how unlikely -- if they'd come back in 10 minutes
later and said we find unanimously guilty of capital
murder, no matter how unlikely, if that was possible,
then jeopardy could not have terminated upon that
report. It could not have been an acquittal because
they couldn't have continued deliberating on those
charges for another instant.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, how do you deal
with our cases, Ball and Martin Linen and the whole line
that says State -- the form of State law judgments
doesn't control?
MR. MCDANIEL: I think that Ball is
particularly helpful to us, and I think that the Hudson
case cited by Petitioner is also important.
If -- if a State puts a procedural bar to
considering a final judgment of acquittal, then that
procedural bar is trumped by the Fifth Amendment of the
Constitution. Mr. Ball was --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure what that
means.
MR. MCDANIEL: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that's the problem
with all of this area, which is States vary on how they
enter judgments after the jury speaks its verdict. So,
where do we draw the line as to when a State law
trumps -- when a Federal law, the Double Jeopardy
Clause, trumps a State system?
MR. MCDANIEL: Justice Sotomayor, I think
that your answer is contained within the question. A
verdict is the true answer. If there is a verdict, then
the -- the force and impact of that verdict is what
matters. Did this jury announce a verdict? If so,
jeopardy attached. But this was not a verdict. It bore
none of the hallmarks of a verdict. It wasn't
published. It wasn't verified. It wasn't accepted by
the court. It wasn't even accepted by the defendant's
attorney. It wasn't a verdict.
In Ball, there was a clear verdict. The
jury announced acquittal. The judge entered acquittal.
And later, the indictment was dismissed as being faulty.
And under the law of England up until that time, even in
the United States, a faulty indictment dismisses
everything, and you start de novo. So, even the
acquittal gets thrown out because you can't acquit of
something that was void ab initio.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Sloan told us that it
was the State that prevented the elucidation because
defense counsel said: Judge, we can try to do what
Double Jeopardy Clause says, not try a person twice for
the same offense. So, Judge, please ask the jury to
rule on those two -- give them a sheet that gives them a
choice of guilty or not guilty.
But they went -- that originally was just a
series of guilty on the four counts, and then their
other choice was acquittal.
Now, defense counsel says, ask them, is it
guilty or not guilty, instead of asking just is it
guilty. And the judge declines to do that. Isn't that
why we don't have definitive answers? Because defense
counsel says -- said, Judge, give the jury the chance to
tell us whether they --
MR. MCDANIEL: Some States do, in fact, give
the opportunity to inquire into the jury's
deliberations. Partial verdict forms and inquiries are
permitted, but they're not required. And in Arkansas,
the State properly objected to changing the agreed-upon
verdict forms, as the judge said, midstream. They had
been agreed to; they had been submitted; and they
properly reflected the law in Arkansas. So that to
change them would have either been by agreement or
because they were constitutionally required. And that's
ultimately the case -- the question in front of this
Court: Are they -- are they constitutionally required?
And that leads into the manifest necessity
analysis because anytime there is a charge with lesser
and included offenses and a general verdict State, and
the jury simply announces we cannot reach a
determination, is -- is the constitutional trigger truly
resting on the fortuity of the announcement of a
snapshot vote in open court, or is a constitutional
trigger how they voted back in the jury room? And if
that is the constitutional trigger, then wouldn't
verdicts -- partial verdicts be required?
In fact, this Court does not require partial
verdicts. A -- an announcement of unable to render a
verdict warrants a mistrial. This Court has said
clearly in Renico that we defer to a -- a trial court's
decision that manifest necessity exists. In fact, this
Court has never overturned a trial court's decision that
manifest necessity existed for the -- on a hung jury.
Here a jury was hung. They simply could not
render a decision on the verdict forms they were
submitted: guilty or not guilty of a homicide? They
couldn't answer the question. And, therefore, jeopardy
should continue, and the retrial should be permitted.
JUSTICE KAGAN: General, you mentioned Green
and Price before, and those are the cases, of course,
where there is a conviction on a lesser charge. We
don't know anything about the greater charge. And then
the conviction is overturned.
And what the Court says there is, well, we
don't know anything, but we're going to make a
reasonable assumption, and the reasonable -- no, I think
it said a "legitimate" assumption. The legitimate
assumption that they acquitted on the greater charges
before they went down to the lesser charge.
Now, it seems to me as though there are a
hundred reasons why that might not be true. The jury
could have just gone to the lesser charge immediately as
a compromise position without voting on the greater
charge, but the Court said we'll make a legitimate
assumption.
So, why isn't the same true here? We're
making a legitimate assumption, I think honestly, on the
basis of much more than Green and Price had to work
with, if you will, that the jury, in fact, acquitted of
those greater offenses.
MR. MCDANIEL: Well, in Green and Price
there were verdicts, and --
JUSTICE KAGAN: There was a verdict --
MR. MCDANIEL: -- in this case there's no
verdict.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- that eventually got
overturned. There was no verdict on the greater
offenses.
MR. MCDANIEL: You have to look at Green and
Price in conjunction with this Court's holding in Brown
and the analysis of lesser included offenses within a
general offense. They are one for jeopardy purposes.
In this case, Mr. Blueford was facing one
charge for jeopardy purposes. The information, the
indictment, only included one charge. So, he could not
have been convicted of both manslaughter and murder in
the first degree. This Court's very clear about that.
So, in Green and in Price, where there was a
conviction on a lesser charge and silence -- in other
words, they didn't expressly say not guilty of this
higher charge and not guilty of this higher charge, and
guilty of this lesser charge -- it stands only to
reason, and certainly to constitutional scrutiny, you
can only be convicted of one of them. And if a jury
finds -- and, again, it still requires publication,
verification, and acceptance by a court of an actual
verdict of one of those charges -- it only stands to
reason and logic that the upper charges were dismissed.
That's -- that is entirely different, respectfully --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well --
JUSTICE ALITO: In Green --
MR. MCDANIEL: -- from this case.
JUSTICE ALITO: In Green and Price, the
defendants were tried once on the greater offense, and
jeopardy terminated without a finding of manifest
necessity regarding the termination of jeopardy. To me
that is the sound basis for those decisions. But I have
to agree with what Justice Kagan said. The -- Justice
Black's reasoning in Green, that the jury impliedly
acquitted the defendant of the greater offense by
convicting the defendant of the -- of the lesser offense
doesn't really make any sense because they could have
simply been in disagreement about the greater offense.
MR. MCDANIEL: Well, and I think that's
correct, and I think that there has to be some question
here as to, is it an implied acquittal or was it an
express verdict? I think the Petitioner can't really
decide, or at least hasn't articulated, where the
jeopardy terminating event occurred. Was it when they
made their announcement? In which case, why did they go
and subsequently deliberate even on the request of
counsel? Was it at the conclusion when there was the
possibility that nothing really had changed after the
report and a declaration of manifest necessity? Which
did not come, by the way, at the request of the State.
It was sui sponte by the court.
And then there was, in fact, a waiver, and I
think a legitimate waiver, of an objection by defense
counsel. There was -- at no time at that point before
releasing this jury did defense counsel renew a motion
to submit partial verdict forms, to inquire into the
jury, to poll where they were.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well -- she had asked;
so, why was it necessary for her to repeat it? And she
said, Judge, please let them vote yes or no on the --
the two most serious charges. And the judge said no.
She might have figured if she was going to repeat that,
she would just annoy the judge. She had made the -- she
had made the request.
MR. MCDANIEL: The primary difference would
be, in fact, the possibility that polling may be
different after another half hour of deliberations. All
it takes is one juror to change their mind. And, in
fact, it may have benefitted the defendant. What if they
had already decided they'd changed their mind again and
acquitted on -- on manslaughter and had moved down to
negligent homicide? And that's what they were talking
about.
Where they were at the end of the final 30
minutes of deliberation is purely speculative. And
because it's purely speculative, regardless of whether
it could benefit the State or the defendant, it means
that no report was a verdict. No report could have been
a verdict.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, other than
trenching on State rules that don't create the
constitutional protection, what's wrong with a simple
rule that says, once a jury announces that it is
unanimous on acquittal of a count, you can't go back
unless the jury says that it's not unanimous in some
way? What's wrong with that rule?
MR. MCDANIEL: It would be difficult to
apply in practicality, and it certainly would be --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why? The jury comes out
and says we're unanimous. There's a poll. One juror
says I'm really not unanimous. They go back. But once
a jury says it's unanimous, a judge can't declare a
mistrial, can't do something until it ensures itself
that -- that jeopardy hasn't attached.
MR. MCDANIEL: The primary reason why the
majority of jurisdictions have rejected that analysis,
whether it's announced or not, is the coercive effect on
-- on a jury.
If you have a tired, frustrated, potentially
angry jury, and they're told we're either going to let
you go or you're -- we're not going to let you go home
until you decide something; you have to tell
us something.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, I'm not -- I'm not
asking -- I'm not announcing or setting a rule that says
you have to ask them, you have to force them to give a
verdict. I'm not -- I'm saying what's wrong with the
constitutional rule that simply says, once the jury says
we're unanimous, there can't be manifest injustice --
there can't be manifest necessity until you're sure that
they can't reach a verdict -- that that verdict is not
their verdict?
MR. MCDANIEL: So, we're not asking, but if
-- just so I understand your hypothetical -- we're not
asking them, but if for fortuitously they happen to
announce --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what --
MR. MCDANIEL: -- spontaneously or
otherwise --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what three State
courts have said. Three State courts have said, if
there's any meaning to jeopardy, it is that once a jury
out loud says to a defendant you're not guilty, the
defendant is entitled to rely on that. So, what's wrong
with that simple rule?
MR. MCDANIEL: First, this Court hasn't --
that court -- that rule -- could be allowed to work,
and, in fact, it does work in some States. I don't see
how it could benefit Mr. Blueford; and so, I don't see
how it follows into his relief because it didn't in fact
happen. And so, it takes us -- it might be beneficial
to future defendants if they ever find themselves in
such a circumstance, but it doesn't apply retroactively.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Sloan, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CLIFFORD M. SLOAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SLOAN: Thank you, Your Honor.
The core of the State's position is that the
foreperson's explicit announcement that the jury had
unanimously voted against guilt is of no constitutional
moment whatsoever.
Now, there is no opinion of this Court that
has ever said that a jury statement like that is
entitled to no weight whatsoever. And if this Court
were to say that in an opinion, it would open the door
to many of the core double jeopardy evils that this
Court has repeatedly focused on. For example, acquittal
avoidance, emphasized in the Arizona v. Washington. A
court doesn't want to accept the acquittal consequences;
so, it just says we're not going to accept that.
And something that's a very real and
practical danger here, which this Court has emphasized
over and over again in opinions, is giving the State the
opportunity to refine and hone its case based on what it
learned at the first trial about what went badly.
And that is exactly what happened here. So,
it was vigorously contested. The State's capital murder
and murder -- first-degree murder case fell apart.
Their lead expert on it was destroyed. The jury heard
both sides, voted unanimously not guilty. And as this
Court said in Ashe v. Swenson, a core evil of the Double
Jeopardy Clause is that we don't let the prosecutor have
a dry run at a first trial, and then get to go before a
second trial with a new jury and plug the holes in it.
And the State's position here, that this is of no moment
at all, would raise that danger very prominently.
In conclusion, Your Honor, the jury in this
case heard the evidence on both sides, unanimously voted
against guilt on the murder charges, announced that in
open court, and never said a word that contradicted it.
Forcing Petitioner to run the gauntlet a second time on
the murder charges would run counter to what this Court
has repeatedly emphasized as the core purposes, policy,
and language of the Double Jeopardy Clause.
If there -- if there are no further
questions, Your Honor --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Sloan, General.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:21 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
55:10 adversary 35:4 35:7,18 36:18 arguments 21:14 35:25
41:19 agree 4:3 5:23 announcement Arkansas 1:6,18 31:16
14:1 29:20 6:15 9:13 7:13,18 11:17 avoidance 54:2
37:18 38:18,19 17:7 18:4,12 14:3,7 22:12
49:11 19:17 20:17 27:11 28:17 B
agreed 45:24 25:3,8 26:10 29:16 30:2,12 B 21:9
22:7 38:13 40:3 announces 41:13 42:14,15 8:21 9:12,15
37:6,13 46:1 24:16 25:15 42:16 45:21,25 10:6 11:3 12:7
ahead 11:12 42:25 46:8 Arkansas's 12:11,13,15
Alito 5:25 8:3 5:5,9,10,20 49:21 25:11 28:25
14:8,12 13:13,15 26:11 52:8 Ashe 54:15 29:9 32:1,4
15:1 41:12,23,25 annoy 50:16 asked 4:5 8:3 33:7,10,12,16
17:10 42:10,13 49:4 answer 21:1,17 9:3 17:1,13 34:7 35:2,20
20:1 49:6 30:24 31:3 31:18 39:24 37:6 40:4,14
23:2,6,16 allegedly 31:16 32:23 42:19 42:12,24 50:11 40:20 41:21
24:16 Allen 8:18 34:8 44:10,11 46:25 asking 19:20 43:7 46:12
28:14 43:4 answering 42:23 25:24 29:8 51:12,19
33:8,19 allow 9:5 13:22 answers 45:15 45:13 52:8,16 badly 54:9
37:25 14:25 anybody 32:1 52:18 Ball 25:9,10,11
42:12 allowed 23:16 anytime 46:6 asks 10:14 43:15,18,24
44:20 53:5 apart 54:12 assent 34:22 44:19
45:11 altogether 4:2 APPEARAN... assert 32:9 bar 43:21,23
51:12 ambiguous 1:14 assume 22:21 based 54:8
29:17 appears 10:10 assumed 32:7 basically 25:13
29:12 36:6 43:23 53:11 20:17 18:15 27:2
38:12,15 analysis 37:3 area 44:4 assuming 20:19 47:21 49:10
46:6 48:9 argued 30:19,20 33:15 bears 34:23
21:13 analyzed 34:15 25:20 47:9,10,11,18 began 40:6
25:1 39:19 argument 1:12 47:20 behalf 2:4,7,10
37:23 angry 52:3 2:2,5,8 3:3,6 attached 36:14 3:7 28:2 53:15
47:11,22 announce 24:21 10:9,21 11:14 36:23 44:14 believe 31:7
50:24 44:13 52:19 12:14 15:13 51:22 32:23 43:1
25:6,9 26:17 26:25 27:3 19:1 37:24 Constitution
32:15 46:3 48:2,11 55:1 coming 17:23 17:16,21,22,25
53:7 49:5,23 54:8 chief 3:3,8 11:9 command 14:13 19:17 20:15
40:15 48:21 choice 15:5,6,7 47:16 constitutionally
51:16 45:8,11 compromised 46:2,4
21:1,5 certainty 9:24 choices 15:5 38:14 contained 44:10
chance 45:16 choose 33:1 compromises contemplated
change 42:7 circuits 39:2 42:2 36:4
46:1 50:21 circumstance conceded 5:25 contested 54:11
32:11 changeable 53:11 conceivable context 10:20
38:4,7 16:11 cited 5:18 43:20 33:16 13:5 22:13
40:21 17:5 18:20 39:18 49:25 contradicted
45:22 24:19 44:8 confused 30:10 contradicts 6:18
8:21 12:3 30:18 32:13 clearly 46:18 3:14 14:24 convicting 49:14
28:7 34:8 37:1 39:7 client 34:10 24:2 54:3 conviction 14:17
32:13 40:4,8,10 43:4 CLIFFORD consider 8:21 14:19 47:4,6
43:8 46:6 47:4,5,12 1:15 2:3,9 3:6 13:5 30:14 48:17
47:15,17 48:12 53:14 39:9 Corbin 31:10,14
6:1,18,24 48:20 29:22 32:17 17:16 23:21 53:17,25
10:3,10 charges 3:20 5:1 coercive 51:25 considering 54:15 55:2
12:16 8:12 9:6,9 10:5 colloquy 6:23 43:22 correct 5:14
27:8 courts 26:15 51:5 53:1,2 different 19:1 earlier 6:21
38:6,7 52:24,24 defendants 49:7 22:16 35:1 10:25 32:24
42:1 court's 3:18 53:10 49:2 50:20 42:2
5:16 14:10 defendant's difficult 51:15 early 15:11
10:8 24:11 46:18,20 48:8 defense 9:1,3 disagreement effect 14:12
29:22 48:15 10:21 19:2 49:16 18:16 34:23
34:4 create 51:9 20:12,14 21:14 disappointed 51:25
43:3 crime 31:25 27:14 29:22 18:23 either 22:23
criminal 10:15 30:20 31:22 disappointment 27:21 32:23
50:7,8 critical 6:8 34:4 35:17,25 18:25 46:1 52:3
7:2 10:11 D defer 46:18 discretion 26:6 45:3
12:25 D 3:1 deference 26:21 26:7,9,15 emphasize 4:20
25:1 danger 54:6,20 definitely 21:3 discussing 13:4 emphasized
35:3,6 day 6:5 definitive 45:15 dismissal 41:8 26:5,20 27:18
51:12 de 44:24 degree 30:15 dismissed 44:21 54:2,6 55:2
33:9,20 deadlocked 9:17 49:24 distinction 7:22 ended 6:20
45:10 14:9 27:1,3 deliberated 27:19 37:16 35:10
deal 43:14 deliberating doing 12:19 15:9 engage 32:25
18:23 32:12 49:21 deliberation door 53:24 England 44:22
52:5 16:2 42:20 double 3:13 English 5:18
5:17,24 50:23 deliberations 16:3 17:5,11 enter 14:17,18
10:3 decision 5:1,5 28:8 45:20 18:13,20 19:4 14:25 37:10
12:14 5:11 13:20 50:20 19:6,11,18,21 44:5
14:3,22 14:4 16:17 delivered 7:19 20:3 24:19 entered 14:20
17:1 46:19,20,23 delivers 18:21 25:16 31:11 25:11,14 36:12
19:22,25 decisions 26:3 deny 32:15,17 42:10,13 44:7 36:13 44:20
26:20,21 26:13 34:19 depending 45:5 53:25 entire 7:9
28:4 49:10 29:18 54:15 55:3 entirely 49:2
31:11 declaration 50:2 depends 18:6 doubt 11:7 entirety 34:18
35:12 declare 13:16,18 destroyed 54:13 28:19 30:13 entitle 24:19,20
37:1 27:8 51:20 detail 16:2 draw 7:22 44:6 entitled 53:2,23
40:15 declared 36:12 determination dry 54:17 equate 42:11
44:17 declaring 35:12 46:9 due 15:14 26:21 equated 25:13
declines 45:14 determine 36:8 DUSTIN 1:17 equivocal 5:2
47:7,17 defendant 9:15 38:3 2:6 28:1 erroneous 17:11
50:4 11:16 13:8 dicta 31:8 D.C 1:8,15 error 36:5
18:22 20:1,23 difference 39:3 especially 21:21
22:14 27:20,22 39:5 41:3 E ESQ 1:15,17 2:3
49:13,14 50:22 50:18 E 2:1 3:1,1 2:6,9
33:24 41:12 five 20:13 21:15 further 55:4 going 6:10 9:19
20:10 Federal 14:13 22:19 40:14 gauntlet 54:25 35:14,19 38:23
42:18 fell 54:12 10:18 7:24 27:25 50:15 52:3,4
felt 29:9 following 36:18 33:1,3 36:9 54:4
30:2 7:19 11:23 force 24:21 53:12 55:7 9:20 11:7,16
40:8 14:6 18:21 38:12 44:12 GINSBURG 4:1 11:21 14:8
20:2 30:5 34:2 52:9 8:14,17 39:22 17:3 18:8,14
30:1 51:2 forcing 38:18 give 17:11 34:8 32:21 38:22,25
54:1 finality 4:18 54:25 45:7,16,18 47:5,11,16,23
41:6 42:12 foreperson 4:9 18:16 30:1,22 greatest 41:15
finding 49:8 15:21 20:17 go 4:14 5:6 6:10 18:24 29:8
6:16 10:4 fine 22:6,22 form 30:7 32:11 9:15 11:2,6,11 guilt 3:25 4:25
53:18 finish 16:23 31:2 34:21 43:16 12:1,7,11,13 8:12 10:4 17:3
31:6 32:5 12:24 13:23 50:9 23:17 26:23 13:10 16:15
22:1 fortuitously 28:19,23 29:6 18:24 20:2
31:5,12 41:15 48:15 45:10 40:2,4 41:20 42:6 43:8 45:8
34:10,17 53:4 54:9,17 free 28:6 42:8 43:4 45:8,10,13,13
45:18 first-degree friend 27:6 49:23 51:12,19 45:14 46:24,24
47:22 3:13 4:7 8:22 front 13:8,8 52:4,4 54:17 48:18,19,20
12:25 13:25 46:3 God 9:19 53:1 54:14
50:20 18:2 19:14,24 33:25 intrude 36:7 50:16 51:20
23:1,12 25:8 included 18:14 irrelevant 25:12 judgment 24:18
52:18 27:9 53:16 48:9,13 26:25 27:4,13 36:12,13 43:22
54:21 55:5 includeds 32:14 37:5 judgments
26:10 40:5 50:20 including 24:13 it's 16:7 Judicial 16:16
54:10 hours 18:25 incorporated I'm 20:20 juries 38:22
32:22
14:16,19 43:19 41:5 jeopardy 3:13 juror 5:22 12:22
28:14 11:18 30:10 44:21,23 48:13 16:3,7,9 17:5 50:21 51:18
hundred 47:14 initial 34:5,5 19:21 20:4 4:3,10,13,14
hung 15:7 20:10 initio 45:1 24:19 25:2,7 4:19,25 5:1,14
34:9 37:7,8 38:1,3,5 22:14 33:23 36:14,22 39:14 8:10,18,20 9:2
38:5 39:12 45:19 50:9 39:15,17,21 9:4,8,11,12,22
20:3 hypothetical instant 43:13 43:10 44:7,14 10:24,25 11:5
37:1 47:15 29:1,3,9 31:15 23:8,13 24:24 28:6,10,13,18
46:24 impact 44:12 31:17,18,19 25:21 26:5,7 28:20,22,25
impermissible 40:14 42:22,22 27:7,21 29:3 29:2,9,24 30:4
18:20 19:12 insufficient 34:6,12 35:2,6 34:18 35:19
7:3,15 impliedly 49:12 intent 34:13 36:11 37:9 37:6,7,8 38:1,2
9:7,23 important 4:21 interest 18:25 38:4,5,5 39:24 38:5,12,14
11:5 9:6 14:4 26:25 19:5,6 40:9 42:21 39:16,16,20
14:6 31:6 32:6 34:3 interested 35:17 43:3 44:20 40:2,19,20,21
42:15 43:14,25 44:3 Laughter 24:8 look 9:18 20:8 29:21 30:11
44:5,13 44:9 45:2 47:2 29:4 23:19 29:18 31:5 32:5,9
45:6,16 48:1,4 49:3,4,6 law 7:10,13,18 31:21 48:7 33:4,21 35:9
49:11,11 50:11 11:18 12:18 Lord 41:6 35:23 36:2,15
48:22 51:8,17 52:7 13:21 14:7,11 lot 24:6 28:13 36:21,24 37:12
50:8,10 52:20,23 53:12 14:16,25 22:21 lots 4:13 37:15,20 38:2
55:6 24:25 25:6 loud 53:1 38:6,8 39:1,22
30:22,22 31:1 Louisiana 14:15 40:11,18,24
54:13 K 36:4,18 37:23 14:16,25 41:2,22,25
Kagan 10:7 28:9 37:24 38:9 lower 41:18 42:11,16 43:18
31:20 33:3,5 42:16 43:16 47:24 48:2,7
5:4,9,25 39:1 42:20 45:25 M 1:15 2:3,9 3:6 51:15,23 52:16
7:2,5,8,17 47:2 48:1,4 lawyer 20:12,14 53:14 52:21 53:4
49:3,11 lawyers 13:8 majority 39:2 mean 5:6 8:1
9:10 Kagan's 30:24 lead 54:13 51:24 12:25 20:7
10:7,8,14 keep 34:7 43:4 leads 28:21 46:5 making 47:20 23:19 30:25
KENNEDY learned 54:9 manifest 3:19 meaning 52:25
13:13 6:22 7:2,5,8,17 led 39:21 13:5,16,18,24 means 17:6,6
15:2,23 8:2,7 12:17 legitimate 47:10 18:3,5,7,11 44:1 51:5
17:18 18:18 47:10,17,20 19:15 25:20 members 40:21
19:9,11,20,23 50:6 26:2,3,13,16 mentioned 47:2
19:9 Kennedy's lesser 9:16,19 27:19 32:18,20 merits 27:12
32:23 10:11 11:6,15 33:17 36:24 mid 18:22
kept 29:19 11:19,20 14:9 46:5,19,21 midstream
21:1,5 key 28:5 37:2,2 18:14 22:3 49:8 50:2 45:23
37:15 32:13,13 39:6 52:12,13 midway 22:18
kicker 25:16 46:6 47:4,12 manslaughter mid-deliberati...
kicks 16:3 47:15 48:9,17 12:5,6,11,23 8:7 34:11
25:9 kind 8:24 9:21 48:20 49:14 14:2 40:1,4,8 mid-deliberati...
26:11 16:20 22:17 Lett 26:5 42:9 48:14 18:22
25:8 let's 11:25 12:6 50:24 mind 4:20 6:6,7
28:3,9 know 5:22 6:6 13:5 16:21 Martin 43:15 40:21 50:21,23
29:5,19 9:13,13 10:19 liberty 36:8 39:9 Massachusetts minimum 12:20
11:23 12:6,22 light 40:16 5:17 16:16,18 minor 16:8,13
17:25 18:9,14 limits 15:14 17:4 19:5 minutes 43:7
18:14 20:13 line 31:8,12 24:13 34:16 51:3 53:13
34:17 21:23 22:20 43:15 44:6 matter 1:11 9:11 mischaracteri...
23:8 33:10 Linen 43:15 11:24 12:18 31:8
35:21 39:11,11 listen 37:7 16:8,13 17:7 mistake 16:6
39:15,16 47:5 litigation 12:15 17:10 25:10,14 mistrial 13:16
38:4,6,8 47:8 little 1:17 30:21 43:7,9 55:10 13:19 27:8,15
40:18 38:10 matters 44:13 27:21 35:12,18
41:12,22 L logic 49:1 McDaniel 1:17 36:12,25 37:10
42:1 lack 25:20 long 9:10 14:8 2:6 27:25 28:1 46:17 51:21
language 55:3 37:1 28:3,11 29:11 misunderstan...
40:2,9 50:25 22:5,5,5,15,15 43:19 poll 23:1,13
24:3 26:14 once 17:11,14 Perez 26:4 polled 9:2 25:14
53:20 new 14:18,20 49:7 51:11,19 11:25 12:25 polling 35:15
54:18 52:11,25 29:25 41:14 50:19
noted 41:4 42:1
42:4,8 notwithstandi...
novo 44:24 operative 25:16 45:21 47:1 positions 35:18
4:6,7 5:1 O opportunity person's 24:17 potentially 52:2
8:12,21,22 O 2:1 3:1 35:15 45:19 perspective 26:3 practical 54:6
10:5 12:3object 27:7,22 54:8 persuade 12:8 practicality
13:10,19 objected 45:22 opposed 27:21 Petitioner 1:4 51:16
14:19 objection 27:10 oral 1:11 2:2,5 1:16 2:4,10 3:7 preceding 10:12
28:7 50:6 3:6 28:1 3:12 28:12 precisely 32:10
32:13 obligation 33:10 order 14:18,18 31:7 40:16 42:1
42:5,6 33:18 14:20 15:1 43:20 49:20 preliminary
48:14 observed 4:9 originally 45:9 53:15 54:25 11:24 12:1
obviously 23:25 ought 43:3 Petitioner's 31:9 premise 17:20
occurred 49:22 outset 8:8 pivoting 34:18 17:24
32:16 37:1 P 3:1 50:13 45:3
18:1 41:15 45:6 PAGE 2:2 plug 54:18 prevents 14:11
48:10 49:7,13 Pardon 8:16 point 5:11,12 15:9
25:20 49:14,16 20:6 9:6 11:17 Price 18:17
offenses 17:3 Parkin 5:19 12:10,15 14:5 39:19 47:3,21
32:19,20 18:15 41:18 part 10:9 31:18 14:16 17:8 47:24 48:8,16
36:25 46:7 47:23 partial 13:22 18:3 19:5,15 49:6
48:6,9 24:23 32:25 24:13 27:14 primary 29:11
50:2 offered 34:21 35:25 36:3,3,5 30:6 33:9 50:18 51:23
Oh 7:12 36:11,19 39:5 35:11 39:23 principle 5:14
20:10,11,16 particularly 15:20 31:4 40:22
11:15 23:9 refine 54:8 respectfully room 9:4 16:10
33:19,19 38:13 reflected 45:25 37:12 40:13 46:12
regarding 49:9 Respondent Roth 16:17
33:8 40:3 rejecting 31:11 29:1 51:11,14 52:8
45:22,25 34:9 relief 22:2 53:8 resubmitting rules 39:14 51:9
27:23 36:19 remained 33:13 result 41:1 55:1
30:19 real 7:11 34:14 39:20 resumed 28:8
54:16 54:5 remaining 27:16 retain 6:12 S
reason 4:20 5:12 renew 50:8 53:11 19:7,15,16
48:10,12 reasonable 11:7 repeatedly 54:1 reversed 26:14 says 5:22 9:17
11:25 28:19 55:2 revise 5:14 7:25 10:6 12:22
request 49:24 revisit 28:7 22:23 24:25
16:20 28:5 29:12 39:7 46:15 10:17 11:5,22 37:24 38:5
19:23
47:14 required 32:24 12:2 18:13 42:15,17 43:16
30:24 REBUTTAL 33:6,6 45:21 20:15,23 21:11 45:5,12,16
38:9 2:8 53:14 46:2,4,14 21:16 22:14,23
51:11,13
44:10
49:18 34:20 39:2,4 29:23 25:5 38:1 52:8,11,11
55:5 recognized 8:20 48:23 ROBERTS 3:3 scale 33:12
40:18,25 16:23,25 18:2 square 8:21 46:24 55:8,10 talking 12:19
18:11 19:8,10 stand 39:24,25 subsequent 26:19 50:25
5:3,8,12 20:25 21:2,11 stands 13:7 49:24 tells 33:7
27:14 21:18,20,25 16:14 48:20,25 substance 14:12 tentative 8:11
54:18,25 22:7,11,16 start 44:24 24:17 9:11
24:1 53:6 24:5,9 25:5,18 12:13,18 14:11 14:23 terminated 28:6
25:22 26:2,17 15:4,4,9,14 subtle 37:15 43:10 49:8
soon 12:9 25:15 43:21 44:6,8 sui 50:4 Thank 27:24
10:8,14 24:11 6:19,21 8:10 13:21 14:3 things 19:19
35:16,24 36:2 24:9,12,12 sure 12:18 23:15 think 4:19,21
53:3 sound 26:6,6,8 State's 14:5 41:5 system 38:12,16 23:19,20 24:15
46:8,22 speaks 44:5 status 42:19 30:11,17 31:5
52:11 special 19:25 step 29:6,6 T 31:20 33:11,13
4:4,18 speculative stuck 33:13 22:20 29:1 40:6 42:16,20
6:14 7:1 39:11 51:3,4 38:20 40:1 36:11,19 38:17 43:3,18,19
8:6 spinning 24:1 stuff 9:21 24:6 38:23 44:9 47:9,20
9:3,23 split 10:22 sua 27:22 takes 4:13 18:25 49:17,18,20
11:4 spontaneously subject 32:18 50:21 53:9 50:6
12:12 52:21 submit 3:14 talk 10:22 12:7 thinking 12:23
sponte 27:22 13:6 50:9 talked 5:17 thinks 13:2,4,6
16:5,12 50:4 submitted 45:24 19:25 26:12 17:12
30:16 41:7 46:9 42:15 46:14,14,16 44:16,17,18
trumped 43:23 undone 41:6 47:25 way 6:10 7:15
21:6 try 12:8 45:4,5 upper 49:1 verified 44:16 33:24 40:22
23:14 trying 7:22 use 28:13 29:15 verify 43:2 43:2 50:3
28:5 22:19 38:10 29:15,17 viewed 3:18 51:14
52:23,24 40:7 useful 31:9 viewing 40:15 Wednesday 1:9
9:22 23:14 25:1 V void 45:1 went 8:14,15,19
27:6,10 32:19,21 33:9 v 1:5 3:4 5:16 vote 5:9 6:7,9,13 9:12 33:16
36:6 33:20 37:24 14:15 26:4,5 6:17 7:20 9:25 40:14 45:9
43:2 45:7 50:14 34:15 37:2 10:1 12:1 47:12 54:9
50:7 twofold 3:23 54:2,15 34:23 41:15,16 we'll 3:3 8:20,21
6:15 variations 23:20 41:17,19,19 12:1,2 47:17
37:6,13 46:3 5:15,20 6:2,4 6:11 8:11 9:14 38:18,20 47:8
45:2 52:3 unable 46:16 7:19,25 8:4,5 13:9 16:14 47:19 51:18
unanimous 4:6 25:3,12,13,21 votes 4:13 40:22 33:8 35:5
21:25 23:15 29:15,16 29:24 30:4,7 voting 47:16 13:18 53:20,23
28:14 30:19,24 41:17 32:11 33:2 wholly 39:11
29:14 51:12,13,18,19 34:4,21,24 W willing 42:3,4,8
14:18,20 4:25 8:11 41:3 44:5,11 want 4:20 6:23 29:16 54:24
19:3,3 11:16 13:9 44:11,12,13,14 7:8 15:13 words 17:5 22:9
34:4,12 14:22 28:18,21 44:15,18,19 21:14 23:8 29:15 38:1
37:10 28:22 31:24 45:20,23 46:7 27:5 38:15,21 48:18
46:18,20 33:8 34:21 46:17,23 48:1 54:3 work 42:22
40:20 43:8 48:3,5,25 wanted 6:11,12 47:21 53:5,6
28:16 30:18 52:14,14,15 warrants 46:17 wouldn't 40:11
44:11 understanding 24:23 32:25 1:15 54:2 wrong 10:18
15:17,18
51:10,14
53:2
43:7
1:4 3:4
1:13 3:2
55:9
5:18 26:4
25:11
26:5
1:9
1:9
2:7
2:4 53:13
51:2
39:23
2:10
