IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
DAVID J. KAPPOS, UNDER SECRETARY :
OF COMMERCE FOR INTELLECTUAL :
PROPERTY AND DIRECTOR, PATENT :
AND TRADEMARK OFFICE, : No. 10-1219
Petitioner :
v. :
GILBERT P. HYATT. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, January 9, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
Petitioner.
AARON M. PANNER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
AARON M. PANNER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 49
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 10-1219, Kappos v. Hyatt.
Ms. Anders.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GINGER D. ANDERS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. ANDERS: Thank you. Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Section 145 of the Patent Act permits a
person who has sought a patent from the PTO and believes
that the agency has wrongly denied his application to
seek judicial review of that decision in district court.
The Federal Circuit in this case held that the plaintiff
in a section 145 action may obtain a more favorable
standard of review, de novo review, by flouting the
PTO's rules during the examination process.
Under the court's approach, a plaintiff may
present to the court material new evidence that he
refused or failed without cause to present to the PTO.
And as his reward, he is given de novo review of the
PTO's expert determinations on all of the relevant
issues.
For three reasons, that unprecedented regime
should not be allowed to stand: First, principles of
administrative deference and exhaustion require that the
PTO be given the opportunity to apply its expert
judgment to all of the reasonably available evidence.
For that reason, section 145 should be interpreted as a
safety valve proceeding that permits applicants to
introduce evidence to the court that they reasonably
could not have presented to the PTO.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can you only get a 145
proceeding when you have new evidence?
MS. ANDERS: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose I have no new
evidence and -- and I want to challenge. Can I bring a
145?
MS. ANDERS: Yes, section 145 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MS. ANDERS: -- permits any applicant
dissatisfied with a decision of the PTO --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And on what basis does the
court decide the case? De novo?
MS. ANDERS: No, the Federal Circuit has
held that in those cases substantial evidence review
applies, and where the Federal Circuit gets that is this
Court's case in Morgan v. Daniels. That was an action
under section 145's predecessor. There was no new
evidence in that case, and the Court held that this was
a proceeding in the nature of a suit to set aside a
judgment, the judgment of the expert agency which had
made this determination, and that, therefore, because
this was administrative review, a deferential standard
of review should apply.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MS. ANDERS: So, it's quite clear that
when --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How close a predecessor is
the predecessor?
MS. ANDERS: All of the material language is
-- is the same. There's -- there's no material
difference for purposes of this case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the Morgan case
involved -- it wasn't a contest between the PTO and the
would-be patent holder; it was an interference
proceeding, wasn't it?
MS. ANDERS: That's correct, Justice
Ginsburg. It was an interference proceeding, and that's
because, at the time, section 145's predecessor applied
equally to interferences and to ex parte patent denials.
But the Court's reasoning, its discussion of -- of the
predecessor statute, did not distinguish based on the
fact that this was an interference. And also this
Court --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought that -- it's
interesting that the language of Morgan and one of its
companion cases, not companion in the sense of being
heard at the same time, but on the same issue -- Radio
City case -- both of them don't talk in the language of
today. They don't talk about deference. They don't
talk about substantial evidence. They talk about
whether the PTO has expertise, and presumptions that
their factfindings based on their expertise have to be
overcome with some convincing evidence.
So, they're talking in different language,
but the concept they're talking about is one where the
court does accept findings of the PTO on the matters
that involve their expertise and give them weight,
substantial weight, essentially, and only overturn it if
the court is, in the words of Morgan and Radio City,
"thoroughly convinced" that they were wrong.
So, what's wrong with that standard?
Everybody likes the deference language of today, but
they were very clear in what they were saying: If the
PTO made a finding, you decide whether that finding was
based on its expertise, and if it was, you don't change
it, court, unless you're thoroughly convinced they were
wrong.
Is there anything wrong with that? With
that articulation of what the standard should be in all
situations, whether there's new evidence or no new
evidence?
MS. ANDERS: Well, I think here we are
suggesting that in -- in 145 actions, when there is new
evidence, the -- Morgan's "thorough conviction" standard
should apply. And that reflects the fact that the court
needs to look at the new evidence, but because the PTO
has made an expert determination, as the Court said in
Morgan, that determination should not be overturned
unless there's a high degree of certainty.
And I would note that that is essentially
what this Court did just last term in Microsoft v. i4i.
There the Court said that when a third party is
challenging the validity of a granted patent, that the
third party should have to show invalidity based on a
heightened burden of proof, clear and convincing
evidence. And that reflects the same wisdom that --
that underlies --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Let me tell
you what my problem is with this case. It is the issue
that Verizon raised and the lack of connection between
the district court's holding and the circuit court's
holding. The district court excluded the affidavit for
the proposed arguments on the basis of them being new
arguments that Board rules precluded them from raising
at the stage they did. The circuit court described the
affidavit as new evidence. And the Verizon amicus brief
says: Court, be careful, because it's not really clear
what's new evidence in this affidavit and what's new
argument.
And that question troubles me, for the
following reason: Verizon posits that the issue of
whether a description is specific enough is a legal
question to which the PTO is not entitled to deference.
Why, other than Federal Circuit and Patent Board
precedent, is that right? And can you explain why this
affidavit that was rejected is in fact new evidence and
not merely new argument?
MS. ANDERS: Certainly, Justice Sotomayor.
I think the district court did characterize
this as new evidence, and the reason it did that was
because Mr. Hyatt made a concerted strategic decision
here to present his affidavit as new evidence. In form,
this is -- this is factual evidence. This is a
declaration containing proffered testimony that Mr.
Hyatt would offer if there were a trial. So, it is in
form factual evidence, and in order to take advantage of
the possibility of introducing new evidence in the
section 145 action, Mr. Hyatt argued that this was
new factual evidence that should --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me what
-- other than that it's in the form of an affidavit,
tell me what in the content was new evidence? I want to
get away from the labels, and I want to get to the
substance because I've looked at all of these
submissions, and it sounds like what I read in briefs
every day.
MS. ANDERS: Certainly. I think whether or
not the -- the ultimate question of whether the written
description is sufficient is a question of law. It
would be one that rests on several subsidiary
factfindings, including what the ordinary skill in the
art is, what a person of ordinary skill in the art would
understand when he reads the specification, and where in
the specification there is support, there is description
support, for the claims that shows that Mr. Hyatt
possessed the invention that he claimed.
And so, I think when you look at what
happened at the PTO, the examiner said: Despite my
expertise, I can't tell where in the specification your
claims are supported. This is at 258 -- it's a 250-page
specification reprinted in the joint appendix. It has
over 100 pages of diagrams, source code, and 117 claims.
And so, the PTO asked for this information; Mr. Hyatt
refused to present it or he didn't present it, and then,
on rehearing, the Board said that he had not had any
cause not to present this new -- this new argument. And
so, at that point, Mr. Hyatt went into the 145
proceeding, and he was -- he characterized this as
factual evidence in order to get around, presumably, or
it would be reasonable to try to get around, the Board's
ruling that he couldn't present new evidence.
Now, you certainly could characterize this
as legal argument. We believe that we would win on that
ground as well, even if this were new argument, because
certainly the PTO is entitled to enforce its rules here,
and both the district court and the panel found that the
PTO did not abuse its discretion in -- in holding that
Mr. Hyatt had forfeited his right to raise this
argument. But that's not -- that's not an additional
question presented that we -- that we added here because
it's a very case-specific question.
But at any rate, the -- the entire case has
now been litigated on the basis of this being factual
evidence --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Your case is stronger if it
isn't new facts, right? That's what you'd say.
MS. ANDERS: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Your case is stronger if in
fact it's only new argument and not new fact.
MS. ANDERS: Certainly. I think it should
be very clear that we would win on that ground. The en
banc court here characterized this as new factual
evidence and applied a rule that will -- will govern, if
it's left to stand, in all 145 actions, which would
permit applicants to withhold evidence from the PTO.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Anders, one of the
problems with, I think, your position, is it sounds very
strange to have two proceedings, one where you go
directly to the Federal Circuit under 101 -- 141; and
then this other one where you go to the district court,
where if that's not, as Judge Newman said, a whole new
-- whole new game, then why would Congress create two
judicial review routes, one in the district court
reviewable in the Federal Circuit, the other directly in
the Federal Circuit, if there's no difference? That is,
if in both of them, it's not de novo review; it is
reviewing what the -- what the agency did under the
ordinary standard for reviewing agency action.
What's different about the -- the 145
proceeding?
MS. ANDERS: Well, in the 145 proceeding,
the applicant has the ability to introduce new evidence
that couldn't be presented to the PTO. And I think --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But what kind of evidence is
that, Ms. Anders?
MS. ANDERS: Well, I think there are two
primary categories, both of which can be very important
in the examination proceedings. The first is oral
testimony. The PTO doesn't hear oral testimony, but it
is routine in the examination procedures for --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, in the 145, an applicant
can take all his written affidavits and say: I want to
present oral testimony, on these exact matters, but
live.
MS. ANDERS: He could -- he could certainly
bring that to the district court, yes. Now, the
district court always, under general evidentiary rules,
can say: I believe this evidence is cumulative; so, I'm
not going to hear it.
But to the extent that the district court
believes it would be helpful to hear oral testimony, for
instance, if the PTO's determinations involve
credibility decisions, then certainly the district court
could hear that testimony, and that's often how these
proceedings have been used.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But to the extent the
substance of that testimony was something that he could
have brought to the PTO, that testimony, in your view,
would be out of bounds.
MS. ANDERS: There would have to be a
reasonable justification for not having presented it --
JUSTICE BREYER: There has to be a
reasonable -- some kind of justification. Can you work
with the word "equitable"? I mean, this was an
equitable action, and could you say that the -- to the
district court, well, of course, you -- assuming you'd
win on the second question. But on the first question,
this is not an on/off thing. That's your real objection
to the de novo standard.
You say: But these are equitable actions,
and generally an individual should not be allowed to run
around the PTO. So, you better have some kind of
reason, but leave it up to the -- to the district courts
to work with that word "equitable" and to -- it seems to
me there will be a lot of shading cases here where you
can't quite tell if it is new or isn't new and some
parts are and some aren't. But just leave it up to the
district court and say: Take into account the fact that
people should not be allowed to run around the PTO and
work equity. That's kicking the ball back.
Now, if you like that, let me know. If you
don't like it, tell me what we -- why -- what should
we -- you want an absolute rule? Tell me why.
MS. ANDERS: Well, the standard we're
proposing is that the district court has discretion to
determine whether there was reasonable cause not to
present the evidence to the PTO.
JUSTICE BREYER: And if it says there isn't,
then it can't hear it? I mean, imagine you're sitting
there as a district judge, you think: Oh, my God, they
should have presented it, but this is the key matter
forever. Do I really pay no attention to it at all?
MS. ANDERS: Well, I think it's no different
from exhaustion or forfeiture rules in any other
context --
JUSTICE BREYER: Except you have a history
here.
MS. ANDERS: The Board applicant has the --
JUSTICE BREYER: You have the history of the
pre-APA section 145 where they apparently did take the
evidence in.
MS. ANDERS: Well, certainly in the early
cases, they took new evidence in. But by 1952, which is
when Congress re-enacted this provision, you have the
lower courts applying the Morgan standard and saying:
Based on Morgan's reasoning, because we know that the
PTO is the primary factfinder, because we know their
decision is so important, we will apply limitations on
new evidence because we don't think that that
evidence --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But then you really do go
back to Justice Ginsburg's question because your
understanding of what they wouldn't have a reasonable
opportunity to present -- I mean, it's very, very
narrow. It's a bunch of cumulative testimony that
nobody would want to present and no judge would want to
hear. And other than that, you're basically saying in
all circumstances, well, they could have done that in
the PTO. So, then you have Justice Ginsburg's problem,
which is these are two channels that are exactly the
same.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And you were beginning to
answer that by saying, well, you can't have oral
testimony before the PTO. But what else? I asked you
what would be -- what's different about 141 and 145 on
your view. And you said one thing is oral testimony.
What else?
MS. ANDERS: Well, the other primary
category of evidence that could come in would be
evidence that has a temporal component. If there's a
lot of evidence that could be relevant to patentability
that develops only slowly or that might arise very late
in the process. So, for instance, obviousness is a --
is a very common ground of rejection. But one thing
that can be relevant to obviousness is if the invention,
once disclosed, has commercial success. So, this type
of sales evidence can -- can develop very late in --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But I thought that your
brief suggested that even with respect to that kind of
evidence, a person can go back to the PTO. Is that
right?
MS. ANDERS: For the most part, the record
closes once the -- once the applicant files his brief on
appeal to the Board. And then it can be months or years
before the Board issues its decision.
Now, there are -- there are a couple of
avenues through which an applicant could still introduce
new evidence even when the Board is considering the
appeal. But both of those, as the process goes --
that's the request for continuing examination and the
continuation application. Both of those have increasing
down sides that require the applicant to abandon his
appeal or give up some of his patent -- the patent term
that he would presumably get. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if -- what if
the new evidence is in reaction to the PTO's ruling?
The PTO says: Look, we're not -- we're not going to
issue a patent because you didn't show us that, you
know, the valve in the back of the thing or whatever
was -- was novel, and we think that's important. So --
and the applicant goes to, under 145, to the district
court and said: Well, I didn't submit that evidence
because I didn't have any idea that that was going to be
a significant issue, and I'm -- you know, I'm sorry,
but, you know, I have a good basis for not thinking of
that, and here it is.
Is that the type of new evidence that could
be admitted?
MS. ANDERS: Well, in the first instance,
the PTO's procedures actually provide -- they actually
provide for this situation, and that's when the Board or
the examiner enters a new ground of rejection. Then, at
that point, the applicant has the right to reopen
prosecution that -- introduce new evidence --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, this is an
exception? I thought you were telling us earlier you
generally can't get --
MS. ANDERS: Right. Yes. I'm sorry. This
is -- this is an exception --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh.
MS. ANDERS: -- that would apply when
there's a new ground of decision. That is something
that Mr. Hyatt could have tried to take advantage of.
He -- he didn't. He simply sought rehearing. But in
any event, both the district court -- the district court
carefully considered the Board's grounds of rejection
and decided that this wasn't -- that these weren't new
grounds of rejection, and the panel affirmed that.
But to get back to the difference between
141 and 145, I think Congress separated these two
proceedings out in 1927. Before that, you had gotten an
appeal first on the record and then -- and then the bill
in equity under 145. So, Congress separated this in
1927, and it appears from the legislative history that
it's concerned with streamlining the proceeding and
having more efficiency in -- in patent appeals.
So, it would be reasonable to conclude that
there would be some number of applicants who -- probably
the majority of applicants, who wouldn't have new
evidence, who could go to 141 and simply get a final
decision from a court after one court proceeding in the
court of appeals.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What evidence --
MS. ANDERS: But --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, please, continue.
MS. ANDERS: Simply that there are -- for
some number of other applicants, it was important to
provide a safety valve because the PTO couldn't consider
oral testimony and because certainly, at the time, oral
testimony was a major concern in interference
proceedings, where you'd often have two inventors saying
I invented it first; no, I invented it first. And you'd
have this credibility fight. So, it was very important
at the time to provide a safety valve proceeding for
those applicants.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you said that you
could -- you could go into court on 145 even if you had
no new evidence.
MS. ANDERS: Yes, and Morgan, in fact, was a
case like that. It appears some applicants may have
done that, but --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, you do -- in that
case, would there be any difference between 141 and 145
other than you go to a different court?
MS. ANDERS: No, I don't think there would
be for an applicant who had no new evidence at that
time. But I think the -- the other alternative, to
treat 145 as an entirely de novo proceeding that allows
any new evidence that the applicant failed without cause
to present to the PTO, thereby obtaining de novo review,
it's -- there's no evident policy justification for
Congress to provide it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that was -- that was
Judge Newman's view, but the en banc court took the
middle position. Often, in trial court evidence
problems, the judge says, well, it goes to its weight,
not the admissibility. And it seems to me that's what
Judge -- the en banc majority was saying, that the fact
that it was not presented before or that it points in a
different direction from what the PTO found goes to its
weight, not its admissibility. In other words, they
will give consideration to the fact that it wasn't
introduced and -- and maybe discount it as a result,
unless there's a reason. So, it just depends on the
facts of the case.
Number one, am I reading or am I summarizing
the en banc majority correctly? And, number two, why
isn't that a sensible way to interpret the statute so,
as Justice Ginsburg is suggesting, you give some meaning
to 145? It's -- it performs a function that 141 does
not.
MS. ANDERS: Well, I think you're correct,
Justice Kennedy, that -- that the en banc court believed
that administrative deference principles didn't weigh
against its conclusions because the district court could
give more weight to the new evidence.
But that is not an adequate response, we
don't think, because this is still de novo review. So,
once the applicant introduces new evidence, the manner
in which the district court evaluates the PTO's
conclusions has entirely changed. This is no longer a
deferential standard looking at the evidence. This is
actually a de novo review, with no deference given to
any of the PTO's factfindings, even on the evidence
before it. And we don't think that's a sensible way to
read the statute because there's no basis in the text of
the statute for a bifurcated standard that would provide
for deferential "thorough conviction" review when
there's no new evidence, but then de novo --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then -- then you're
saying that we -- that we should choose either between
your position or Judge Newman's position.
MS. ANDERS: Well, Judge Newman's position I
think is inconsistent with Morgan, because Morgan was a
section -- Revised Statute 4915 action. It was a 145
action with no new evidence. And the Court there said
that the "thorough conviction" standard should apply
because this was administrative review. So, to hold
that 145 requires de novo review even when there's no
new evidence would be to overrule Morgan.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure why --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But Morgan only talked about
the standard of review; isn't that right? Morgan has
very little to say about what types of evidence ought to
be admitted in this proceeding. And one thing we could
do is to separate out these two things and say, you
know, we think that there's a basis for one, for, let's
say, giving the government a fairly deferential standard
of review -- call it clear and convincing, call it
thorough conviction -- but go the other way, rule
against you, on the evidentiary point, which Morgan says
nothing about.
MS. ANDERS: Well, I think Morgan did not
directly address this -- the admissibility of new
evidence, but by saying that the PTO is the primary
decisionmaker and that the court should not lightly set
aside what the PTO does, it invoked administrative
deference principles, which in turn show why all of the
reasonably available evidence needs to be presented to
the agency.
And -- I do think that it -- it wouldn't
make sense to have a de novo standard of review for
patent denials any time new evidence comes in, largely
based on this Court's decision in Microsoft. There, the
Court rejected the argument that a third party who had
no opportunity to present evidence to the PTO should not
be held to as high a standard of review. So, it would
be particularly perverse here to say that de novo review
should apply whenever a patent applicant puts in any new
evidence that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But I don't know that
that -- I think you're confusing the nature of the
review, which is de novo, new, with the -- the burdens
that attach to the proof. Those are two different
concepts. And so, that's what Microsoft said. Don't
confuse burdens with standards of review. That it's de
novo review is one thing, but even in de novo review, we
often give more weight or presumptive weight to some
facts as opposed to others. And that's what I think
Morgan was talking about. Morgan was very clear:
Whether it was new evidence or not, you give -- you
accept as valid whatever the PTO does, and you require
to be thoroughly convinced by new evidence or not that
they were wrong.
I don't know why that standard can't apply
in any situation. I think that's what Judge Newman
intended, although he didn't say that.
So, why are we confusing the standard of
review with the burden?
MS. ANDERS: Well, I think that the
presumption of validity and the need to give deference
to the PTO's determinations are essentially two ways
of -- of saying the same thing. As Microsoft noted, the
presumption of -- of validity comes from the assumption
that the agency is presumed to do its job. That's what
Judge Rich said. And that in turn is what the Court
said in RCA, where it announced the presumption of
validity, and there it relied on Morgan.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I have two problems with
your argument. The first is -- and I know that it may
be unique to me because many of my colleagues say that
you don't rely on legislative history, but I'm not
relying just on legislative history. I'm relying that
the legislative history is replete with the commissioner
of patents himself saying that section 145 required de
novo review. And witness after witness tried to argue
for Congress to change it, and it didn't, arguing that
it required de novo review.
Second, our cases repeatedly describe it as
de novo review. So, you got to get past that.
And then you got to get past that between
1927 and 1945 you have Barrett on your side. But there
are plenty of courts, including the Second Circuit, and
a very respected jurist, Learned Hand, saying that if
you exclude new evidence, it should only be if it's on
principles of estoppel, that someone intentionally
withheld evidence from the PTO.
So, how do you deal with a record that
doesn't basic -- that doesn't support your basic
argument?
MS. ANDERS: I think the record does support
our argument, Justice Sotomayor, because what you see in
the early 20th century after Morgan had construed this
as administrative review -- you referred to the 1927
hearings. There, I think many of the people used the
phrase "de novo" in a very loose way that probably was a
result of its dating before the APA. They referred to
it mostly as -- as a contrast between the original
action and the appeal. And that's the same thing you
see in the early cases. For instance, Globe-Union
referred to this as a de novo proceeding, even as it
said that the thorough conviction standard should apply
and new evidence should be limited because this was
administrative. So, I don't think you can place very
much weight on the use of the term "de novo."
I do think it's notable that every time
there was an objection in the cases before 1952, the
courts applied limitations on new evidence. Dowling,
the case you referred to -- that was -- that was dicta;
the court discussed the standard but didn't actually
apply it there. And so, I think the most natural
inference is that in 1952, Congress looked to Morgan and
it looked to these cases, and it viewed this as an
administrative review proceeding.
If I could reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Panner.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF AARON M. PANNER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. PANNER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The language of section 145, the structure
of the judicial review provisions in the Patent Act, the
long history of the provision, and this Court's
constructions of its predecessors all make clear that
the Government's argument that a plaintiff is barred
from introducing new evidence in an action under section
145, except in the unusual if not extraordinary
circumstance where the applicant had no opportunity to
introduce the substance of that evidence, is incorrect.
Section 145 does not follow the modern norm
of on-the-record review. Such review is afforded under
sections 141 to 144. And no principle of administrative
law supports the Government's "no opportunity" standard
in situations where Congress has authorized a trial de
novo to obtain relief from adverse agency action.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The problem I have
with your submission: You say there are basically two
routes to get review of a denial by the Patent Office.
The first is, under 141, you appeal to the Federal
Circuit, right, and in that situation, you're limited to
the record before the agency --
MR. PANNER: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- on which you
lost. And there's deference to the agency, which ruled
against you.
Under 145, you can add new evidence, you
could address questions that the PTO raised, saying you
don't -- you haven't dealt with this valve in the back,
and you could say, well, here's new evidence dealing
with that. There's no deference to the agency, and to
some extent you can pick which judge you want to hear,
to the extent you can -- can do that.
Why would anybody proceed under section 141
instead of 145?
MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, to be clear
about what is permitted under section 145, it is correct
that new evidence can be permitted to go to issues that
have been properly ruled on by the PTO in the course of
ruling on the ex parte application.
The reason that appeals to the -- to the
Federal Circuit are quite common is because often the
issue that is the basis for the rejection is a legal
issue. And as to those issues, there's de novo review
in the Federal Circuit. The Federal Circuit will be
ruling on those legal issues in time in any event. It
is really in the circumstance where there is a factual
question as to which new evidence is relevant, where the
applicant will avail himself of what --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, that in -- in
every case where it's anything other than a purely legal
issue, you would go under 145?
MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, if you had
evidence that you wanted to present, and the remedies at
the PTO were inadequate for one reason or another. But
in thinking about the practical implications of the
procedural option that section 145 affords, it's
important to recognize that this procedure has been in
place for generations, and it has been understood by the
patent bar as reflected in decisions of the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know.
That's why I'm -- I'm really confused, because I take it
that people don't often use 145, right? They almost
always appeal to the Federal Circuit.
MR. PANNER: Well, I think that the number
of cases involving rejections that are taken up into
court are somewhat limited, in part because applicants
often have an adequate remedy before the PTO. But where
there is a circumstance where there has been a final --
a Board action, a case like this one, where the --
the grounds for rejection, not meaning the technical
grounds, because the grounds of written description had
been identified in the examiner's decision, but where
the reasoning that justified the rejection was quite new
in the decision of the Board and where there were --
there was factual evidence that the applicant wanted to
submit to a generalist district court to permit the
district court to understand where in the specification
the support for these elements --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, Ms. --
Ms. Anders told us that there's a procedure before the
PTO that lets you deal with these -- that sort of
something came up that you didn't think about, and you
can address that.
MR. PANNER: Your Honor, what -- what
Ms. Anders was referring to, I believe, is the
possibility to reopen where there are new grounds for a
rejection. There were no new grounds here because it
was still a written description rejection. The
applicant did argue in -- in filing for rehearing that
the explanation that the Board had provided was one that
he had not been able to discern from the examination --
the examiner's rejection.
And if you just look at the record in this
case, when the examiner said that there was support
lacking for the features that were -- where the Board
eventually did -- did affirm, there is no explanation as
to what element was missing, why the -- why the feature
was not supported in the specification. The Board
provided that reasoned explanation, and the applicant
tried to respond, and the Board refused to -- to accept
it.
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you think -- in terms of
the second question on the standard of review, I'm
somewhat -- I'd like your response to the approach, that
where there's ambiguity -- I mean, you're going to win
if there's no ambiguity. But if there's ambiguity, I
think that 1946 makes a difference. That is, preceding
that time, every agency went its own way, and you had
dozens of specialized methods of review. And the whole
purpose of 50 years of administrative law has been to
try to create uniformity across agencies in a vast
Federal Government.
And now, what was obviously worrying me in
the first case and this case, too --
MR. PANNER: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- is that we're chipping
away at that, and that will be very hard for lawyers and
for ordinary people to understand if we suddenly go back
and create specialized rules in favor of each agency
that always wants a specialized rule, of course; they
think what they do is terribly important, which it is,
I'm sure.
But that's -- that's why I'm saying if
ambiguity on the standard of review, you go with
uniformity.
MR. PANNER: Right. Well, there's really
two points, Your Honor: With respect to standard of
review, which is separate from the question of the
admissibility of the evidence -- on standard of review,
the APA says that where there's a trial de novo, the
standard is whether the finding is unwarranted by the
facts under (2)(F). So --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's -- that begs the
question in a sense because they're interlinked. I
mean, the same reasons would support that it's not a
trial de novo even if you introduce some new evidence.
MR. PANNER: Well, I think that --
JUSTICE BREYER: It is a -- it is an old
trial with some new evidence, and there will be a
thousand different variations on that theme.
MR. PANNER: I think that goes to Justice
Sotomayor's point really, which is that there is a trial
de novo, and clearly at a minimum what the courts are
talking about when they refer to this, not 5 times, not
10 times, but dozens of times, this Court several times,
lower courts pervasively, when they are talking about a
de novo proceeding, they're talking about the fact that
the applicant can introduce new evidence to attempt to
overcome the adverse action that was -- was entered by
the agency.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, the new
part -- I get that.
MR. PANNER: Okay. And then the question
becomes, what is the appropriate standard of review when
there is new evidence going to this question? And the
answer here goes I think to -- section (2)(F) says that
there's a -- the question is whether it's warranted by
the facts. There is then the question of what weight
may be afforded to a particular agency -- agency
determination. At a minimum, the fact that there has
been a rejection shifts the burden. When an applicant
goes to the PTO, there's an assumption of an entitlement
to patent, unless the PTO can show that the applicant is
not entitled to that patent. So, the burden is on the
PTO.
Once there has been a proper rejection by
the agency and the Board has ruled, then the applicant
bears the burden. So, at a minimum, there has been a
shifting. And the applicant would then bear the burden.
And as a practical matter, as the Federal Circuit
indicated, the district judge will weigh the evidence
before it, including the new evidence and the findings
by the agency, in making its determination as to whether
the applicant has carried -- carried his burden to show
that he's entitled to the patent.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If the judge does that,
what -- how does he articulate the weight that he gives
to what the PTO find? Does he say I give deference to
this? I give substantial deference? This was all
discussed -- page 9 of your brief, you summarized what
the majority opinion of the en banc court did.
MR. PANNER: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And in that connection, on
this same line, do you -- do you agree with that
summary?
MR. PANNER: I do, Your Honor. That is to
say that what the Federal circuit recognized is that in
determining the weight to give to new evidence and
determining what weight to give to the determined --
prior determination of the agency, it's appropriate for
the district court to look at the circumstances of the
new evidence. And one of the things that's -- this is
an equitable -- well, was an equitable action. And, of
course, the judge is sitting without a jury.
In Microsoft, there was obviously concern by
this Court that there not be shifting standards of proof
that would be confusing to a jury and could lead to
collateral litigation about that. Where a district
judge is making a determination about a factual issue,
the district judge can as a practical matter quite
reasonably determine what was before the Board, what did
the Board decide, what was the basis for that, how
strongly supported is it, versus how -- how -- to what
extent is this new evidence something that really
requires me to look at this anew.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in line with
Justice Breyer's question, can you give us an example of
some other agency review proceeding that is somewhat
like this, or is this just unique?
MR. PANNER: I don't think it's entirely
unique at all, Your Honor. That is to say, for example,
in proceedings where there's orders to pay money by the
FCC, the findings of the agency are given prima facie
weight in an action -- in an enforcement action. And
so, new evidence is permitted, and the district judge
would make a determination based on the record and the
new evidence. But the party or the agency seeking to
enforce the prior order would be able to rely on those
factual findings to -- as prima facie evidence where, if
there was no contrary evidence, it would actually
establish those facts.
There are other administrative review
schemes that do afford trial de novo in which the -- you
know, there may be more or less deference to whatever
the agency did depending on -- on what the record may
reflect about the considered judgment of the agency.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are there limits on the
new evidence that can be produced? Are there any
limits, in your view?
MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, I think that
the principle of estoppel that was recognized in Barrett
is not one that we're -- we're challenging. That is to
say, in a circumstance in which an applicant -- and, of
course, that was an interference proceeding, and it's
perhaps easier to foresee this happening in an
interference context, but in that case, the plaintiff
had actually suppressed, had directed witnesses not to
answer questions that went into a particular factual
area and then, when -- after appeal and when the
district court action was brought, attempted to
introduce the very evidence that he had -- that the
applicant had deliberately suppressed. And the district
court said, look, that -- that is -- gives rise to an
estoppel, which seems to me a generally applicable
principle that --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, if you're
willing to accept that, then what about broadening that
to prevent people from running around the PTO, and
simply saying unless the -- unless the person, the
potential patentee, unless he wants to -- unless he has
shown he can show that he's innocent, that is to say it
wasn't deliberate, it wasn't negligent, it wasn't a part
of a trial -- of a strategy, unless he shows he was
totally without sin in some form of words in not
introducing the evidence the first time, he can't
introduce it now?
MR. PANNER: I think the difficulty with
that, Your Honor, is not only is it inconsistent with
the practice of the courts, which have always recognized
that, but it also ignores the fact that there needs to
be decisions that an applicant makes about what evidence
to present to the PTO. And there may be good cause for
not presenting evidence in the PTO that becomes quite
relevant once --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, say that. Say unless
he can show that there was good cause for his not having
introduced it before the PTO, he -- the -- the court now
won't consider it.
MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, we would --
we would certainly meet that good cause standard in this
case, but the thing that I think is difficult about that
standard is that it could potentially lead to all sorts
of collateral litigation. In a typical case, for
example, an applicant will seek to introduce new expert
testimony that either was not or was -- is additional to
whatever was at issue -- was offered in the PTO. Often,
expert testimony will not be offered at all in an ex
parte application.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, give us a standard
and how is what -- the good cause that you're somehow
willing to accept different from the Government's
reasonable cause standard? And equity seems to have
required an intentional or bad faith withholding. Is
that what you want to limit yourself to? What do you do
with sort of the in between? The intentional and the
grossly negligent.
MR. PANNER: Justice Sotomayor, to be clear,
the proper standard is -- does not permit exclusion of
evidence because there was good cause to present it and
it was not.
The standard for -- which we think is
supported in the cases is one that would permit the
introduction of evidence as the Federal Circuit said
consistent with the rules of evidence and civil
procedure. That's why principles of estoppel, which are
reflected in ordinary equity practice, not just
administrative review contexts, would be -- would be
applicable and could lead to the exclusion of evidence.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And what do you see the
limits of that estoppel -- equity principles? I think
that's what Justice Breyer was -- was referring to.
What would be the contours of your equity limits?
MR. PANNER: And I think that looking at the
-- at the cases that were decided before 1952, which
everyone seems to -- to agree is -- is the magic date,
the furthest that any court went was the decision in
Barrett. And it's interesting that the panel decision
in this case also relied on the idea in Barrett.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's a little bit
unfair, to characterize the cases as limited to that.
Some talked about negligence.
MR. PANNER: Not --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And some courts said it
should be intentional. There was a debate back and
forth.
MR. PANNER: In the court of -- in the court
of appeals, Your Honor, the only exclusion of
evidence --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes, I agree.
MR. PANNER: -- was from Barrett, and that
was a case that involved, again, directing a witness not
to answer, the suppression of inquiry into a particular
factual area where the applicant then -- changing his
story and claiming a different date for reduction of
practice and a different basis for reduction to practice
than had been argued before the PTO -- attempted to
introduce the evidence that he had suppressed.
So, that's a very different circumstance.
And the courts -- the decisions are actually at pains to
say that Barrett should not be over-read. The Third
Circuit in the Carborundum case said that; the Nichols
case, which we've we cited in our brief, said that; and
of course, as you pointed out, Judge Hand observed that
in the -- in the Dowling case. Globe-Union said that.
So, even the cases that the Government itself relied on
were -- accepted evidence, despite the arguments that
were made by the defendants in those cases that this was
evidence that should have been excluded because it could
have been presented, and -- and did consider it.
And that brings us, I think -- there has
been a lot of discussion about Morgan and the standard
of review and what Morgan has to say about that. And
the critical point that this Court recognized in
Microsoft was that Morgan is one of the early cases and
then -- and Radio Corporation is another that depend on
an idea of the presumption of validity, which of course
was then adopted by Congress in section 282 as a
statutory presumption, that was given that common law
meaning that required clear and convincing evidence.
But the clear and convincing evidence is to overcome the
grant of a property right to the defendant in those
cases.
What's critical in Morgan is the fact that
the -- the Patent Office had granted a patent to the
defendant, and it was a challenge to the validity of
that patent that the plaintiff's case relied on. And
it's -- and that's absolutely clear because the Court
cites to Johnson v. Towsley, which is a case involving a
land grant. And what the Court says is our presumption
is that when the executive has the power to give
property rights, we don't get to review it.
Now, in this case, we see a limited
exception because there's a statute that actually tells
us we have to do it, but that exception is going to be
limited. But if you look at what Morgan relies on,
Morgan is not relying on agency expertise; it's relying
on agency authority, which is a different matter. And
so -- and the authority that the agency had to grant a
property right. In the -- in the conception of a -- of
the court of 1893 and the administrative law that
existed in 1893, the fact that there was no property
right being challenged in an action where there was an
effort to overcome a rejection means that this idea
about the presumption of the validity of the rights that
had been granted by an executive department doesn't come
into play. There had been no rights granted by the
executive department, and there's a new proceeding in
which, to quote Professor Merrill's article, the court
had "the whole case." And that's really reflected in
the language that Congress chose.
Now, of course, that -- the differences
between what Congress provided under section 145 and the
modern administrative review do lead to some -- to some
questions. There is the question, you know, what should
the standard be if there is no new evidence? Which --
you know, which the court looked at.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And on that I think you
-- you're not taking the position that Judge Newman did.
I think -- didn't you say that if no new evidence is
introduced in a 145 proceeding, then the court engages
in APA-style review?
MR. PANNER: Your Honor, Judge Newman said
that if there -- that all -- all findings should be de
novo in a section 145 action, but the -- the majority of
the en banc court said that if there's no new
evidence -- relying on what the Federal Circuit had held
for many years, that if there's no new evidence, then
the standard would be the substantial evidence standard
that would apply on appeal.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that -- and that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you agree with that?
MR. PANNER: We haven't taken a position on
it, but let me suggest --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I noticed that.
MR. PANNER: -- why it might be right, Your
Honor, which is that section 141 and section 144 do --
this Court in -- you know, held in Zurko that once you
are in a situation where there is no new evidence -- and
as an aside, Zurko emphasized that Morgan was a case
that was on no new evidence. Where you have a case
that's on no new evidence, there -- the APA standard of
review, substantial evidence, arbitrary/capricious
review, applies. And it might -- this might be the sort
of narrow circumstance where to apply a de novo
standard, even though that may be otherwise suggested by
the language of section 145, would create an anomaly, as
-- as this Court recognized in Zurko.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It seems to me you were
introducing such a gamesmanship. Anybody who wanted to
get out of substantial deference under the APA just has
to present an expert. That -- that's what makes little
sense to me, trying to -- now we're hair-splitting in a
very minute way.
MR. PANNER: Right. I don't -- I don't
think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Articulate a standard
that would -- Newman is suggesting total de novo review
with no reference to any kind of presumption applied to
the PTO decision. Another way --
MR. PANNER: I'm not sure --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- to look at it is the
way I suggested, which is it doesn't matter whether
there's new evidence or not; what is the level of
respect that you are going to give to the PTO factual
findings?
MR. PANNER: Right. And, Your Honor, I
think that the standard of proof is one of -- is the
preponderance of the evidence. And the question of what
weight -- as the Federal Circuit said, what weight to
afford to that prior finding of the PTO would depend on
what the record showed. That is the -- as the facts of
the case may appear -- in section 145, it requires the
district court to look at the findings and look at the
new evidence and to then make the determination.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Be -- as in the language
of Morgan, be convinced that the PTO was wrong?
MR. PANNER: As section -- as I say, the
language of Morgan deals with the circumstance in which
there's a challenge to the validity of an issued patent.
The action that was at issue, the action as to which the
validity was being challenged, was not the denial of the
patent to the applicant; it was the fact that the PTO
had issued a patent to the defendant in that case. And
so, there was a collateral attack, effectively a
collateral challenge to the validity of that issued
patent. And that's why Radio Corporation of America
cites Morgan, and that's how, you know, it's relevant to
the -- this Court's, you know, decision in Microsoft,
that the statutory presumption of validity carries this
heightened standard of proof.
JUSTICE BREYER: My goodness. Suppose
you're a lawyer, back to the Chief Justice's question,
as you are, and you have the client there, and you're
thinking, you know, if he puts all his evidence before
the PTO, and they say no, we've had it. I mean, there
we are. But if we hold back something, well, then we're
going to get not -- get de novo review and a district
court. Boy! But if we're too obvious about holding
back something, we run into the estoppel rule.
My goodness. You're -- you're in a mess, it
seems to me, trying to advise a client what to do in
that situation. Better not say hold something back; on
the other hand, if he does he's pretty -- how do you
deal -- you see?
MR. PANNER: I think the -- I understand the
concern, but the practicalities of patent prosecution
practice are that no applicant would hold back evidence
in an effort to -- to produce that sort of tactical
advantage because once --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because -- I'm
sorry. Go ahead.
MR. PANNER: I think because it's -- it's
frankly more straightforward and easier to try to meet
those objections in the Office. That's what usually
happens, is that there's a dialogue with the examiner to
try to meet the grounds for rejection.
One of the things that I think is important
to take into account with respect to the context of this
case is there were a vast number of rejections. There
was not just a rejection on written-description and
enablement grounds, but there were rejections for double
patentings; there were rejections for anticipation;
there were rejections for obviousness. And every single
one -- every single one -- of those grounds for
rejection was overcome in the appeal before the Board.
And many of the written-description rejections were
overcome in the appeal before the Board. And at -- with
respect to every one, if one goes back and reads the
examiner's decision, the examiner did provide an
explanation as to what was lacking with respect to
certain -- certain elements of the claimed invention,
and with respect to every single one of those, the Board
reversed.
So, where the applicant was provided a fair
opportunity to try to meet the concerns, the applicant
did so, and the Board ruled in his favor. And he again
attempted -- there's no question of sandbagging here.
The -- the applicant brought these arguments to the
Board in the rehearing petition, in the request for
rehearing, and said here's my answer to your more
focused explanation. And they -- they refused to hear
it.
So, as a practical matter, I think that --
and you don't have to take my word for it, again,
because this procedure has been in place for so long,
and problems have not arisen. And even if there were
uncertainty as to what the precise standard for
admissibility was, the applicants would have every
reason to test that and to -- to try to do something
along that line if that were a realistic option and
favorable.
The fact of the matter is that that has not
happened because the applicants have every reason in the
world to pursue the application with vigor before the
Office. And the Federal Circuit, which, of course, is
more familiar with the -- the patent application process
than any other court, had no concerns that the rule that
they were adopting would lead to abuses.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess, as a
practical matter, these things all end up before the
Federal Circuit anyway, right?
MR. PANNER: That's right, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And I suppose that
-- if you had the same case and one is coming up under
the 141 and the other under 145, I suppose it's
theoretically possible they could reach different
results because of different standards of review.
MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, you can't do
both.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. I know.
I'm not saying -- the point is that although they all
come before the Federal Circuit, they may come to them
in a very different posture that would cause the Federal
Circuit to rule differently if you had the same case
under one and under the other.
MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, I -- it
wouldn't be on the same record.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. PANNER: If it were on the same record,
then presumably the -- the issue that would be presented
would be quite similar. The only time I can see that --
so, in other words, if there were a different record,
it's true that the Federal Circuit's review of the
district decision would be -- it would be the difference
that this Court recognized in Zurko. It would be the
court/court standard of review, which is -- gives
perhaps slightly less weight to the decision of the
district court than the court/agency review. But that
doesn't seem like an advantage. In the -- in a
circumstance at least where an applicant has prevailed,
the applicant would be more likely to see the victory
taken away by the Federal Circuit.
Unless the Court has questions.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Panner.
Ms. Anders, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GINGER D. ANDERS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. ANDERS: Thank you.
This is an action for judicial review of
agency determination. This is an action that -- that
requires the patent applicant to -- to seek a property
right from the agency, to have it denied, and to
challenge that in court. And as a result, this Court
said in Zurko that this is review of an agency
determination, and, therefore, Morgan's deferential
standard should be carried forward into the APA.
And in construing Morgan, the Court in Zurko
did not consider that it was -- whether a property right
had been awarded or not; it was simply that the agency
had made a determination in its expertise. And I think
that goes to why it would not be sufficient for the
court simply to weigh the evidence differently. In
every other agency -- judicial review proceeding of
agency action, the rule is that the agency is the
primary decisionmaker. The agency has to consider the
evidence first and make a determination. That aids
judicial review. It allows the agency to apply its
expertise. And we generally don't think of the court as
being the one who should make the first determination on
issues of fact. And that's particularly --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but you have a strange
statute here. I don't know any statute that -- that
reads this way. "As the facts" -- "as the facts" --
where is it? "As the facts may" --
MS. ANDERS: Yes. "As the facts" --
JUSTICE SCALIA: "As the facts in the case
may appear." That's --
MS. ANDERS: Well, that language was in the
statute in Morgan when the Court construed this as
judicial review. And I think that -- there would have
to be a compelling reason in order to interpret the
statute to permit an -- to permit the applicant to
introduce evidence that he failed without cause, without
justification, to provide to the agency.
And I don't think that Mr. Hyatt has shown
any such justification. And --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but I guess the
compelling reason is the statutory language and
especially with respect to the admissibility of evidence
question. I mean, it -- the standard that you suggest
just can't be derived from the statutory language; isn't
that right?
MS. ANDERS: Well, I think certainly there's
an exhaustion requirement within the statute. The Board
has to have considered the application. And, therefore,
it would make no sense to have the Board consider the
application if it didn't have to consider all of the
evidence that was provided.
So, I think in that sense, you know, the
standard that the Federal Circuit put in place and that
Mr. Hyatt is proposing really is providing --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, why didn't the court
just say what you said? If it -- if -- not the court;
Congress. If you admit that Congress intended a section
145 action to permit new evidence, if it wanted to limit
that evidence to something that could not have been
found with due diligence or whatever your limitations
are, why did it speak more broadly? I mean, the
statutory language suggests "as the facts in this case,"
not in the case before the PTO. As law and -- "as
equity might permit."
This is very broad language.
MS. ANDERS: Well -- so, the language could
be taken to suggest that some new evidence is
admissible, but I think then we look to the fact that
this -- just like section 141 is a judicial review
proceeding, and there should have to be compelling
reason before we deviate from the normal deferential
standards that apply when a -- when a court is reviewing
an agency's determination.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:03 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
26:5 admissible 19:19 appear 43:25 32:12 33:23
52:4 adopted 40:5 Anders 1:18 2:3 19:12 29:22
30:8 32:7 12:3,12 13:2 14:15 16:10,14 8:6,14 10:3,10
37:14 advise 45:4 14:1,10,15,19 16:19 17:3,15 10:11,16 11:1
affidavits 12:9 18:21,23 19:11 28:6 29:8,22 49:1
11:20 afford 35:6 23:22 25:3 33:7 35:16,25 46:16
21:17,18 43:23 29:13,18 48:25 36:19 37:7 arisen 46:24
26:14,23 afforded 26:19 49:1,3 50:5,8 39:6 44:10 art 9:14,14
32:7 34:1 32:17 50:23 51:18 45:10 46:12,13 article 41:11
35:23 affords 28:14 anew 34:13 46:16 48:18,19 articulate 33:10
42:2 44:8 agencies 30:19 announced 24:4 49:6 50:12 43:9
49:4,5,19 agency 3:12 5:2 anomaly 42:24 applicants 4:5 articulation 7:1
11:19,20 22:17 answer 15:15 11:7 18:15,16 aside 5:1 22:14
27:4,7,13 39:5 46:18 28:24 47:1,6 asked 9:25
34:21,25 35:8 43:2 50:25 51:2 assumption 24:1
29:16 41:1 49:5,7,9 APA 25:9 31:13 11:5 25:20 attach 23:6
49:20,22 50:14 49:11 applies 4:22 attempt 32:6
5:4 20:21 agree 33:17 apparently apply 4:2 5:5 39:9 46:15
22:14 38:13 39:2 14:17 7:7 14:25 attention 14:9
26:1 42:9 appeal 16:11,16 17:23 21:19 authority 40:25
30:18 ahead 45:14 16:20 18:9 23:1,17 25:14 41:1
38:5 41:3 aids 49:21 25:11 27:2 25:23 42:7,22 authorized
allowed 3:25 28:21 35:22 49:22 51:24 26:22
22:11 allows 19:20 appeals 18:13 approach 3:18 available 4:3
bifurcated 21:9 49:11 44:9 claiming 39:7
14:15 5:14 6:5 7:21 24:14 7:17 8:4 11:3
17:1 18:6 29:23 30:3,6,8 25:21 28:8 channels 15:12 37:20 40:7,8
31:1 32:25 34:9,10 29:2 30:2,22 characterize 40:15
44:20,24 46:3,5,10,14 30:22 35:19 8:16 10:9 clearly 32:1
46:6 46:17 50:24 37:4,6 38:16 38:18 client 44:21 45:4
33:14 Boy 45:1 45:22 47:17 26:3,7,24 27:6 37:6 44:12,13
Breyer 13:4 48:2 50:6 28:7,18 29:12 colleagues 24:8
38:15,16 36:4,23 38:9 13:17 14:20 chipping 30:24 24:1
44:19 24:16 25:12,19 choose 21:13 coming 47:17
7:16 brief 8:3 16:6,10 37:25 38:12,18 circuit 3:14 4:20 1:4
22:21 33:13 39:15 39:18,20 40:2 4:22 7:23 8:2 commercial
briefs 9:7 40:10 8:11 11:11,16 16:3
broad 51:17 categories 12:4 28:21 33:3,20 common 16:1
17:7 broadly 51:13 cause 3:20 10:3 42:4 43:22 companion 6:3
22:4 brought 12:25 14:3 19:21 47:8,14,25 6:3
34:10 35:23 46:16 36:20,24 37:3 48:2,20 51:5 compelling
bunch 15:7 37:13,15,22 Circuit's 48:11 50:11,18 51:22
26:6 49:2 C 11:2 12:12,20 circumstances concern 19:2
29:18 call 22:6,6 37:3 50:23 cited 39:15 concerned 18:12
careful 8:4 40:13 44:7,13 civil 38:2 concerted 8:18
carried 33:7,7 challenged 41:5 46:9 conclusions
21:3 convinced 6:17 courts 13:15 debate 38:22 derived 50:21
34:5 7:17 22:6 40:7 39:12 38:12 9:11,16 29:4
18:7,10 Corporation 4:23 5:22 7:23 4:17 8:18 despite 9:20
24:14 40:3 44:14 7:23 22:21 14:25 16:12 39:19
26:22 correct 5:18 26:11 44:16 17:24 18:18 determination
41:13,15 20:19 27:19 court/agency 22:21 29:5,7 5:3 7:9,10
correctly 20:14 48:16 38:14,15 43:12 32:18 33:6,23
52:1 48:14 48:12,15 49:5,10,15,21
39:22 course 13:8 30:19 31:2 22:13 49:20 determinations
51:1 27:21 31:3 42:24 decisions 12:20 3:22 12:19
34:2 35:17 credibility 12:20 28:17 36:19 23:24
41:14 47:8 critical 40:1,11 declaration 8:21 34:9
50:25 3:13,19 4:6,19 12:15 15:7 40:13 44:11 33:22
6:16,23 7:7,9 D 39:20 33:21,22
11:4,12,15 Daniels 4:23 20:21 21:5 deviate 51:23
13:8,20 14:2 dating 25:9 27:7,13 33:11 dialogue 45:18
18:18,19 19:9 day 9:8 43:3 difference 5:13
45:21 26:8 28:24 22:19,25 23:5 deliberate 36:10 41:14
35:23 36:1,25 25:13,17 26:22 denial 27:1 44:9 15:17 19:16
41:3,11,19,23 42:1,22 43:10 denied 3:12 49:7 39:7,8,11
22:7 49:12,17,23 deals 44:6 depending 35:8 difficult 37:4
50:9 51:7,8,24 dealt 27:11 depends 20:11 difficulty 36:15
22:11 46:9 7:3,6,8,18 8:3 17:14 30:2 facts 10:23
enablement 14:20 15:1,2 exception 17:18 factual 8:20,23
enforce 10:12 16:4,7,15,23 exclude 24:22 11:4 28:4 29:8
enforcement 18:17,20 19:10 39:21 39:6 43:17
8:16 enters 17:14 22:1,12,16,20 41:8,10 fairly 22:5
11:12,15 entire 10:19 22:23 23:2,13 exhaustion 4:1 faith 37:16
entirely 19:20 23:15 24:22,24 14:11 50:24 familiar 47:9
21:3 34:18 25:15,20 26:14 existed 41:4 favor 31:2 46:14
17:3 entitled 8:10 26:17 27:9,12 expert 3:22 4:2 favorable 3:15
20:22 10:12 32:22 27:20 28:5,11 5:2 7:9 37:7,10 47:4
29:9,10 33:8 29:8 31:12,19 43:4 FCC 34:21
34:6,8 entitlement 31:22 32:6,13 expertise 6:8,9 feature 30:5
35:23,25 32:20 33:4,5,21,25 6:14,22 9:21 features 30:3
48:12 equally 5:21 34:12,23,25 40:24 49:15,23 Federal 3:14
equitable 13:6,7 35:2,3,11,24 explain 8:12 4:20,22 8:11
equity 13:22 39:1,10,19,21 46:8,19 28:21 30:20
38:4,8,10 41:22 42:4,5,6 27:14,15 34:12 42:4 43:22
40:2 estoppel 24:23 evidentiary 8:13 11:1,1 find 33:11
38:3,8 45:2 ex 5:21 27:22 20:5,9 32:5,18 31:14 43:23
42:1 Ginsburg's 15:4 grossly 37:19 37:2 38:25 intentionally
44:1 15:11 ground 10:11 41:25 42:14 24:23
17:11 20:9,16,23 17:14,24 48:4,22 38:15
19:4,4 23:10,13,23 grounds 18:3,5 Hyatt 1:9 3:4 interference
27:2 33:11,12,21,22 29:3,4,4,19,20 8:18,22,25 5:16,19,24
36:13 34:15 37:12 45:19,24 46:2 9:17,25 10:4 19:2 35:17,19
40:18 43:17 guess 47:12 10:15 17:25 interferences
16:7 18:17 happening 28:13 31:19 32:6
51:12 God 14:7 hear 3:3 12:6,16 28:15 31:4 introduced
heard 6:4 including 9:13 introducing
44:25 4:25 22:24 increasing 16:18 invalidity 7:16
36:24 37:3,13 helpful 12:18 individual 13:13 invention 9:18
36:2 45:3 18:11 24:9,10 9:25 invoked 22:14
gotten 18:8 24:11 26:11 innocent 36:9 involve 6:14
government 45:5,10 instance 12:19 involved 5:15
3:6 49:1 Government's 10:14 45:1 INTELLECT... 40:16
11:8 grant 40:9,17 28:10 29:17 intended 23:19 8:8 16:25 17:6
19:8,14 41:1 30:23 31:10 51:9 27:25 28:1,9
35:10 granted 7:15 33:15,19 34:19 intentional 34:7 37:9 44:8
42:8 40:12 41:8,9 35:13 36:16 37:16,18 38:22 48:8
34:15 35:10 46:8 long 26:11 46:23 Merrill's 41:11
27:20 37:20 38:7,9 language 5:11 look 7:8 9:19 methods 30:17
49:25 38:17,21 39:2 6:2,5,11,19 16:24 30:1 Microsoft 7:13
43:1,9 42:24 44:3,6 36:1 40:23 34:3 40:2
20:1,3,5 13:3,5 19:23 lawyer 44:20 lost 27:7 modern 26:18
23:18 50:14,16 lawyers 30:25 lot 13:17 15:23 41:16
27:14 justified 29:6 lead 34:5 37:5 39:24 Monday 1:12
34:2,7,8 38:6 41:16 lower 14:22 32:4 money 34:20
39:16 K 47:11 months 16:11
KAGAN 12:1,8 Learned 24:21 M Morgan 4:23
35:9 16:5 21:24 left 11:6 magic 38:13 7:10 14:22
26:10 Kappos 1:3 3:4 27:25 28:3,8 majority 18:16 21:22,24,25
Kennedy 18:20 legislative 18:11 20:5,14 33:14 22:8,10 23:12
51:21 18:22 19:25 24:9,10,11 42:2 23:12 24:5
4:8,11,15 key 14:8 likes 6:19 material 3:19 44:4,6,15
5:6,9,14 kicking 13:22 limit 37:17 5:11,12 49:12 50:9
6:1 7:20 kind 12:1 13:5 51:10 matter 1:14 14:8 Morgan's 7:6
9:2 10:22 13:14 16:6 limitations 33:3 34:8 14:23 49:10
11:8 43:11 14:25 25:20 40:25 43:15
13:4 know 13:23 51:12 46:21 47:5,13 N
14:23,24 17:1 limited 25:15 52:4 N 2:1,1 3:1
17:6,7 22:4 27:3 28:24 matters 6:13 narrow 15:7
17:17 23:3,17 24:7 38:18 40:20,23 12:10 42:22
18:20,22 28:18 35:7 limits 35:10,12 mean 13:6 14:6 natural 25:23
41:17,19 42:15 38:8,10 15:6 30:13 nature 5:1 23:4
21:12 44:15,16,22 line 33:17 34:14 31:18 44:23 need 23:23
23:3 47:23 50:2 47:3 50:20 51:13 needs 7:8 22:16
25:4 26:3 51:4 litigated 10:20 meaning 20:16 36:18
27:6 litigation 34:6 29:3 40:7 negligence
29:12 L 37:6 means 41:6 38:19
31:16 labels 9:5 little 22:1 38:17 meet 37:3 45:16 negligent 36:10
32:9 lack 7:22 43:4 45:19 46:13 37:19
7:2,2,5,8 24:15,17 25:8 47:3 particular 32:17 28:16 46:23
8:3,5,5,13 25:13,17 26:23 oral 1:14 2:2,5 35:21 39:5 51:5
28:1 31:13,19 3:6 12:5,6,10 particularly plaintiff 3:14,18
10:3,3,8 32:1,5 35:6 12:18 15:15,18 22:25 49:25 26:13 35:19
11:1 42:2,22 43:10 19:1,1 26:5 parts 13:19 plaintiff's 40:14
44:25 order 8:23 10:6 party 7:14,16 play 41:9
13:18,18 number 18:15 35:1 50:11 22:22 34:25 please 3:9 18:22
15:1 18:24 20:13,14 orders 34:20 patent 1:5 3:10 26:8
17:9 28:22 45:22 ordinary 9:13 3:11 5:16,21 plenty 24:20
9:14 11:20 7:15 8:11 point 10:4 17:15
19:10 O 31:1 38:4 16:20,20,25 22:8 31:25
20:23 O 2:1 3:1 original 25:10 18:13 22:20 40:1 47:24
objection 13:10 ought 22:1 23:1 26:10 pointed 39:16
23:1 25:19 overcome 6:10 27:1 28:17 points 20:6
objections 45:17 32:7 40:8 41:6 32:21,22 33:8 31:10
25:15,20 observed 39:16 46:3,5 40:12,12,14 policy 19:23
27:9,12 obtain 3:15 overrule 21:22 44:7,10,11,14 position 11:9
28:5 26:23 overturn 6:15 45:9 47:9 49:6 20:2 21:14,14
obtaining 19:22 overturned 7:10 patentability 21:15 41:21
32:6 obvious 45:1 over-read 39:13 15:23 42:10
33:5 obviously 30:21 patentee 36:8 posits 8:8
34:12 34:3 P patentings possessed 9:18
35:11 obviousness P 1:9 3:1 45:25 possibility 8:24
41:10,18 15:25 16:2 page 2:2 33:13 patents 24:12 29:19
42:3,5 46:1 pages 9:24 pay 14:9 34:20 possible 47:19
offer 8:22 pains 39:12 people 13:21 posture 48:1
44:2 offered 37:9,10 panel 10:13 18:5 25:7 28:20 potential 36:8
Office 1:6 27:1 38:15 31:1 36:6 potentially 37:5
41:21,25 47:8 26:4,5,7 27:5 permit 11:7 29:9 practical 28:13
Oh 14:7 17:22 27:18 28:10,22 37:21,25 50:12 33:3 34:8
Okay 32:11 31:9,20,24 permits 3:10 4:5 practicalities
11:18 opportunity 4:2 48:24 1:20 2:4,10 3:7 4:24 5:9,10,20
19:20,22 15:6 22:23 part 16:9 28:24 49:2 5:23
21:5,11 26:16,21 46:13 32:10 36:10 phrase 25:8 predecessors
22:19,25 opposed 23:11 parte 5:21 27:22 pick 27:14 26:12
problems 11:9 19:6,24 21:9 32:11,13,15,16 reasoning 5:22
10:1,1,3,8 46:24 provided 29:23 43:21 44:20 reasons 3:24
14:4 procedural 30:7 41:15 46:15 50:20 31:18
19:22 28:14 46:12 51:3 questions 27:10 REBUTTAL
28:11 procedure 28:15 providing 51:6 35:21 41:17 2:8 49:1
37:22 29:13 38:3 provision 14:21 48:21 recognize 28:15
46:23 26:11 quite 5:7 13:18 recognized
11:25 17:12 PTO 3:11,20 4:2 34:8 36:21 36:17 40:1
14:8 20:6 proceed 27:16 4:7,17 5:15 6:8 48:9 42:25 48:13
39:22 proceeding 4:5 6:13,21 7:8 quote 41:11 record 16:9 18:9
4:9 5:1,17,19 8:10 9:20,25 24:25 25:3
18:12,18 19:6 11:25 12:6,25 R 3:1 34:24 35:8
16:21 25:13 26:1 14:24 15:11,16 40:3 44:14 48:10
32:5 34:16 16:7,24 18:25 raise 10:15 reduction 39:7,8
24:1,4 proceedings 23:14 24:24 raising 8:1 referred 25:6,9
41:7 11:10 12:5,22 27:10,21 28:12 rate 10:19 25:13,21
44:17 18:8 19:3 28:25 29:14 RCA 24:4 referring 29:18
process 3:17 33:11 36:6,20 reaction 16:23 reflect 35:9
47:9 39:9 43:12,17 reading 20:13 38:4 41:12
34:4 43:20 23:24 15:3 28:4,19 rehearing 10:2
15:20 proper 32:24 purpose 30:18 41:12 51:6 46:17,18
49:20 37:21 purposes 5:13 reason 4:4 8:8 rejected 8:13
36:3 property 1:5 put 51:5 20:11 27:23 rejection 16:1
22:15 49:6,13 p.m 52:3 50:11,18 51:23 27:25 29:3,6
38:3,8 proposed 7:25 reasonable 10:7 29:20,21,25
51:6 question 8:7,10 15:5 18:14 45:19,23 46:3
17:16 45:9 10:18 13:9,9 reasonably 4:3,6 45:22,24,25
16:2 reversed 46:11 26:3,24 27:6 schemes 35:6 similar 48:9
36:22 review 3:13,16 28:7,18 29:12 second 13:9 simply 18:1,17
3:16,21 4:21 45:13 47:12,16 24:16,20 30:11 18:23 36:7
39:18 19:22 20:25 52:1 1:3 sin 36:12
21:5,10,20,21 routes 11:15 section 3:10,15 single 46:1,2,10
42:4 25:6 26:1,10 47:10 48:2 27:16,19 28:14 situations 7:2
35:5 38:5 10:12 12:14 sections 26:20 Solicitor 1:18
41:16,24 42:20 38:2 40:20 45:7 30:12 34:16
49:4,9,18,22 run 13:13,21 seeking 34:25 42:21 45:11
23:14 reviewable running 36:6 31:17 43:5 Sotomayor 6:1
37:16 reviewing 11:19 S sensible 20:15 21:23 23:3
11:20 51:24 S 2:1 3:1 21:7 24:6 25:4
reward 3:21 19:6 31:11 38:17,21 39:2
43:25 14:21 sandbagging 18:10 51:7
Rich 24:3 46:15 set 5:1 22:13 Sotomayor's
43:17 16:8 17:15,20 19:3 20:5 34:4 sounds 9:7 11:9
46:6,8 21:25 27:3 21:13 22:12 shifts 32:19 source 9:24
50:19 28:20 31:9 23:25 24:12,21 show 7:16 16:25 speak 51:13
2:7 26:6 47:15 48:6 16:24 20:3 shown 36:9 specification
rights 40:19 32:14 40:17 shows 9:17 29:10 30:6
49:8 ROBERTS 3:3 10:22,25 50:1 sides 16:19 standard 3:16
6:18 7:1,6 subsidiary 9:12 taken 28:23 23:4,11,18,22 tried 17:25
13:11 substance 9:6 42:10 48:20 25:3,7,16,18 24:13 30:8
21:4,9
26:17 51:19 25:23 28:22 troubles 8:7
22:5
23:17
33:12 talked 21:24 31:4,20,24 try 10:7 30:19
25:14,22 42:6,20 43:3 38:19 32:14 34:18 45:16,19 46:13
30:11 success 16:3 talking 6:11,12 35:13 36:15 47:2
37:3,5 sufficient 9:11 technical 29:3 38:11 39:23 turn 22:15 24:3
49:16 tell 7:20 9:2,4,21 41:20,22 43:8 two 11:10,14
41:18 suggest 42:11 13:18,24,25 43:20 45:8,15 12:3 15:12
51:19 telling 17:18 45:20 46:21 18:7 19:3
44:18
48:14 42:23 43:15 temporal 15:22 50:15,23 51:4 23:6,24 24:6
50:20 suggesting 7:5 term 7:13 16:20 51:20 26:25 31:10
20:16 43:10 25:17 thinking 17:7 type 16:3 17:9
47:20 suit 5:1 terribly 31:4 third 7:14,16 typical 37:6
summarized test 47:2 22:22 39:13
21:8,9 20:13 12:21,24,25 25:14 uncertainty
40:21 summary 33:18 15:7,16,18 thoroughly 6:17 46:25
support 9:16,17 19:1,2 37:8,10 6:23 23:15 underlies 7:19
50:18,21 30:2 31:18 Thank 3:8 26:3 17:18 29:10 31:1
supported 9:22 48:22,23 49:3 thousand 31:23 45:8
supports 26:21 theoretically 19:1,6,19 understood
44:19 47:16,18 thing 13:10 26:2 28:3 unfair 38:18
39:5 37:4 today 6:6,19 34:17,19
sure 21:23 31:5 33:25 45:20 total 43:10 unprecedented
T 2:1,1 11:25 12:3 1:6 31:14
13:20 14:17 19:17,19 20:19 26:22 31:13,19
45:21 46:22 22:4,10,18 36:11 v 1:8 3:4 4:23
40:16 32:16 33:10,21 Y 2 31:15 32:14
24:1,5 went 10:4 30:16 250-page 9:22
41:7 35:21 38:14 Z 258 9:22
weren't 18:4 Zurko 42:15,17 26 2:7
19:6 we're 14:1 16:24 49:9,12
16:24 30:24 3
44:23 100 9:24 49 2:10
52:3 5 32:2
20:1 13:9 30:13
11:11 15:17 50 30:18
wisdom 7:18
13:25 39:4 145 3:10,15 4:4
27:14 witnesses 35:20 4:8,13,14 7:5
word 13:6,16 8:25 10:4 11:6
43:2 words 6:16 20:8 14:17 15:17
36:12 48:10 17:3 18:7,10
worrying 30:21 24:12 26:9,15
18:16 22:18 27:19 28:9,14
20:9 would-be 5:16 42:2,24 43:25
written 9:10 47:18 51:10
25:8 written-descri... 1893 41:3,4
43:6,12 45:23 46:4 1927 18:8,11
50:3 wrong 6:17,18 24:19 25:6
49:17 wrongly 3:12 1952 14:20
X
25:17 x 1:2,10 2
