IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
HOWARD K. STERN, EXECUTOR OF THE :
ESTATE OF VICKIE LYNN MARSHALL, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 10-179
ELAINE T. MARSHALL, EXECUTRIX OF :
THE ESTATE OF E. PIERCE MARSHALL :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, January 18, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:00 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
KENT L. RICHLAND, ESQ., Los Angeles, California; on
behalf of Petitioner.
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioner.
ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
KENT L. RICHLAND, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as
amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner 16
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
KENT L. RICHLAND, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:00 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll now hear
argument in Case 10-179, Stern v. Marshall.
Mr. Richland.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENT L. RICHLAND
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. RICHLAND: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Pierce Marshall filed a claim in Vickie
Marshall's bankruptcy case. He alleged he was damaged
because she falsely accused him of cheating her out of
money that her late husband intended to give her. In
order to preserve its claim against him, the bankruptcy
estate had no choice but then to file its counterclaim
in the bankruptcy court, alleging that those statements
were in fact true and that far from Pierce being
entitled to money from the estate, he owed money to the
bankruptcy estate. This Court's cases established that
the bankruptcy court was constitutionally authorized to
decide that entire dispute.
Congress drafted the bankruptcy statutes -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you tell me why?
MR. RICHLAND: Excuse me, Your Honor? I'm
sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the authority at
all for a bankruptcy court to adjudicate proof of
claims, without violating Article III? I don't think
we've ever had a case that's actually said that.
MR. RICHLAND: This Court has never
approached that issue directly. Of course -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what's -
MR. RICHLAND: Excuse me, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what's the
constitutional basis?
MR. RICHLAND: Well, of course, it need not
reach that issue in this case, because the court below
and the Respondents assume for the purposes of this case
that, in fact, there was authority for the bankruptcy
court.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure how that
helps. If there's no jurisdiction for the bankruptcy
court to adjudicate proof of claims, then how can it
adjudicate counterclaims? Don't both fall if there's an
Article III violation?
MR. RICHLAND: Well, I don't think so, Your
Honor, because Article III, of course, is not
jurisdictional in the sense that we think of basic
fundamental jurisdiction, subject matter jurisdiction.
It can be waived, of course. But beyond that, I think
that Marathon, as I said, assumes that there is Article
III authority to adjudicate the proof of claim.
Katchen -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, answer the -
MR. RICHLAND: Katchen -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Answer the question.
Don't assume.
MR. RICHLAND: Okay. And -- well, the
answer is that, under -- under the various theories that
this Court has put forth, there is a basis for the
bankruptcy court to adjudicate a proof of claim.
One theory, of course, is the public rights
theory, and in Granfinanciera, this Court established
that the -- the public rights theory was broader than
just the kind of situation where the government was a
party, and it said that -- that it -- public rights are
defined as whether Congress, acting under Article I, has
created a seemingly private right that is so closely
integrated into a public regulatory scheme as to be a
matter appropriate for agency resolution with limited
involvement by the Article III judiciary.
JUSTICE ALITO: The claim here was not one
that was created by Congress, though, was it?
MR. RICHLAND: That's -- that's correct, but
this Court has never held that in fact the claim had to
be created by -- literally created by Congress. What
this Court has always talked about is -- is, is the
claim one that Congress has established as being
applicable within the system but that may be based on a
State law claim?
For example, when, you know, this Court
analyzed the claims which were at issue in
Granfinanciera, it looked at the fact that they were
fundamentally common law claims. It didn't depend on
the fact that they were Federal claims.
The same thing was -- is true in the way
that the -- that this Court analyzed the -- the claim in
-- in Marathon itself. It made the determination that
because this was -- I think the way Justice Rehnquist
stated it was: This is the stuff that would have been
adjudicated at common law in Westminster in 1789. So it
was not the Federal or State nature of the claim, it was
the fact that these were common law claims that made it
important.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Are there any limits, Mr.
Richland? Suppose that Congress had authorized
bankruptcy courts to decide contract disputes between
two creditors in a bankruptcy proceeding. Would that be
all right?
MR. RICHLAND: I think that there are
limits, and they must be related to the purpose of
bankruptcy. I think that a -- that sort of thing would
be related to, perhaps, within the "related to"
jurisdiction of bankruptcy, and that would fall within
the problems identified in Granfinanciera, for example.
That would be beyond the scope of what could be
adjudicated in bankruptcy.
But what we are talking about here is claims
and counterclaims that are at the essence of what
bankruptcy courts do. The bankruptcy system, of course,
is set up in order to adjudicate claims to a limited
amount of money, and in order to do that in an efficient
manner, in a manner that will not utilize the entire
amount of the -- the estate in the adjudication process,
it set up the bankruptcy courts. And so they are set up
in order to be efficient, effective, and as soon as, of
course, as we get an Article III court involved, that
really does place some brakes on the efficiency. It
becomes much more costly.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can the bankruptcy court
adjudicate permissive counterclaims?
MR. RICHLAND: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And if you posit a no,
what's the limiting principle?
MR. RICHLAND: Well, certainly the
statute -- 157(b)(3), (2) -- does not distinguish
between compulsory and permissive counterclaims. And
it's also true that this Court's authority in
Granfinanciera, in Langenkamp and in Katchen -- the
rationale of those cases is broad enough to encompass
permissive counterclaims, but this Court need not reach
that issue in this case, because here we do have what
both the court of appeals below and what seems to have
been conceded by Respondents is, indeed, a compulsory
counterclaim.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Richland, isn't there
this difference: Just to take ordinary civil procedure,
compulsory counterclaim doesn't have to satisfy any
jurisdictional requirements, because it comes in under
the wing of the main claim, but a permissive
counterclaim has to independently satisfy a
jurisdictional requirement.
So that could be a reason, even though the
Bankruptcy Code just says counterclaim, to distinguish
the two. If there's an authority to deal with the
claim, then there's authority to deal with the
counterclaim, but if it's a permissive counterclaim,
it's not based on the same transaction or premise, then
it would have to be a self-standing claim. But, as
you -- as you have said, this case does present what the
parties have agreed is a compulsory counterclaim.
MR. RICHLAND: Well, I -- I think that -
that is an excellent justification for why one might
want to make this a very narrow determination in this
case. In fact, Justice Rehnquist, in his concurring
opinion in Marathon, said that this is an area which is
very touchy and difficult and complex, and it is one
where we particularly should not, as a court, go beyond
the facts of the individual case and what must be
decided for this case.
Of course, the other thing about compulsory
counterclaims and what makes it more applicable in this
kind of situation in an Article III setting is that,
according to the Schor analysis, what we are talking
about is how much of an intrusion on the Article III
process are we talking about. And if we assume, as
appears to have been assumed here, that the claim itself
may be determined by the bankruptcy court, then the net
intrusion by determining a counterclaim, a compulsory
counterclaim, is much, much smaller, because there
almost inevitably will be overlap between what must be
decided by the bankruptcy court and what -- on the claim
and what must be decided on the counterclaim.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there any authority -
this began as a motion for -- for nondischargeability.
MR. RICHLAND: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there -- is there -
are there any cases in the -- in the Federal courts
which tell us that a motion for nondischargeability does
or does not require the pleading of a counterclaim?
MR. RICHLAND: I don't believe so, Justice
Kennedy. But in fact, what happened here was something
much, much more than just a motion, a request for
determination of nondischargeability, because 1 month
after that was filed, the actual proof of claim itself
was filed. And all the courts below have uniformly
concluded that when that additional step is taken, it
could have no purpose other than to present the claim -
beyond just the question of dischargeability, present
the question of liquidation of the claim to the
bankruptcy court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the counterclaim came
at what point? After the proof of claim was filed?
MR. RICHLAND: That is correct. Some weeks
after the proof of claim was filed, the -- the
counterclaim was filed. The objections and counterclaim
was filed.
The -- the statutory structure here is
something that -- it has been suggested that this is a
question of statutory interpretation and that, in fact,
the statute does not provide for this kind of treatment,
that, in fact, there is a two-step process by which one
determines whether a bankruptcy court can finally decide
a counterclaim. But I think that really is belied by
the plain language of the statute as well as the
statutory structure.
Of course, the starting point is
157(b)(2)(C), which very clearly and straightforwardly
states that core claims include counterclaims by the
estate against persons filing claims against the estate.
JUSTICE ALITO: What do you make of the fact
that -- that (b)(2) says core proceedings include, but
are not limited to, the matters that are listed after
that?
How would a court go about deciding whether
something that is not specifically mentioned constitutes
a core proceeding except by looking back to (b)(1),
which is what the court of appeals did?
MR. RICHLAND: Well, I think that when -- a
court would indeed, if one were looking at something
that was outside the scope of the explicitly mentioned
categories from (B) to (N) in 157(b)(2), one would in
fact look beyond the words of (A) and (O) -- those are
the two catch-all provisions -- and one would look to
the usual, normal principles of statutory construction
to determine what fit within them.
But 152 -- 157(b)(2)(C) is very
straightforward. It does not require any additional
interpretation. There is -- a counterclaim against a
person filing a proof of claim is just, on its face,
something that is unambiguous. And the fact that there
are more ambiguous categories there would probably
require a court to go beyond, you know, the four corners
of the statute and look to the normal kinds of
principles we use in determining what statutes mean.
We'd look at the categories that were
actually included. We would see, is this something that
is similar, does it fall within that category, and so
on.
JUSTICE ALITO: What do you think is the
principle that defines a core proceeding? Some of these
specifically enumerated items are very -- potentially
very broad: (A) "matters concerning the administration
of the estate."
MR. RICHLAND: That's right. The -- (A) and
(O) are very broad. And so, what -- that category -
what those two categories would have to be informed by
and are informed by are the principles of statutory
construction that are normally used. And included among
those, we would contend, would be looking at the words
of the statute that talk about, does this arise under
the Bankruptcy Code or arise in a bankruptcy case?
So for those particular categories, the
lower courts have been comfortable with the idea that we
look at the language of the statute, apply those words
and use those as limitations, but with respect to the
specific categories from (B) to (N), the courts have
uniformly indicated that those categories do not require
further interpretation, that they are straightforward,
and they constitute core proceedings on their face.
I think the -- with respect to the question
that you asked, Justice Sotomayor, and the whole issue
of whether a matter is under -- may pass muster under
Article III is a very easy one in this case. And the
reason for that is that if we look to Schor and Schor's
Article III analysis, we can see that it really divides
into two parts.
Part 1 is: Was there some -- is the Article
III -- to the extent the Article III right is a personal
one, that is to the extent that it guarantees someone
a -- a decision maker who is not going to be affected by
the political branches of the government or by the winds
of politics, that's something that's waivable. And, in
fact -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you don't say you waive
it when -- when, in order to protect yourself for a debt
that is owed to you, you make a claim in a bankruptcy
proceeding. We do have a doctrine that you cannot -
you cannot condition a Federal right upon the waiver of
constitutional protections. And that seems to me what
you're saying here. If you want to get paid by the
bankrupt estate, you have to waive your -- your right to
a -- to a jury trial.
MR. RICHLAND: Well, Justice Scalia, that is
precisely what this Court addressed in footnote 14 in
Granfinanciera. It explained that, yes, waiver under
many circumstances and -- under the Schor case, for
example, waiver involves a choice between two equal or
optional options.
However, I should point out that in this
case, there was another option. There was a
dischargeability complaint filed, and, in fact, the
choice was made not to pursue that but, instead, to
pursue the proof of claim. There was already a State
court suit on file and, instead of requesting a stay, a
relief from the bankruptcy stay, the proof of claim was
filed.
In general, however, the Alexander v.
Hillman principle, which is also discussed in footnote
14, is what applies in this -- in this circumstance.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would it have been normal
for the bankruptcy judge to lift the stay with respect
to a claim that could be presented in the bankruptcy
proceeding?
MR. RICHLAND: Well, the -- certainly the -
the principles of -- of permissive abstention, for
example, encourage, if, in fact, comity is to be
respected and if there is another suit pending
elsewhere, that bankruptcy courts will permit the suit
to proceed in that jurisdiction, so that that does in
fact occur. But it was never even tried here, and
that's -- that's really the point.
And I'd like to reserve the rest of my time,
but I would like to make one final point before I sit
down initially, and that is, if this Court should decide
to reverse, that as we requested in our -- in our reply
brief and as we requested in our relief on our
cross-appeal, we would request that -- that this case be
sent back to the district court, because it was the
district court that in the first instance applied the
improper standard, and we think that would be an
appropriate way of -- of taking care of this case in
this instance.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Stewart.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I -- I'd like to begin by addressing Justice
Scalia's question about the -- what's sometimes referred
to as the unconstitutional conditions doctrine, whether
it's appropriate to place a person in a position where
he has to make a choice whether to assert one of two
constitutional rights. And although there is in many
contexts reluctance to put an individual to that choice,
there's not an inflexible rule against it.
And to take one example, a criminal
defendant has an absolute constitutional right to
testify in his own defense. He also has an absolute
constitutional right to resist compelled testimony in
which the prosecution will ask him hostile questions,
but he doesn't have a constitutional right to do both.
If he chooses -- chooses to take the stand and testify,
he may be cross-examined at trial by the prosecution,
and he has no residual Fifth Amendment right to resist
the hostile questioning.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is a little -
it's a little different when you're talking about the
right to have a -- a decision before an Article III
tribunal. It seems a bit more fundamental than the
examples you're giving.
MR. STEWART: Well, I don't know that it's
more fundamental than the right not to be questioned
against one's will in a criminal proceeding in which
you're -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, not -- not
fundamental in the sense of is it important or not. I
guess "fundamental" is not the right word. Maybe
"structural" or -- or something like that. It's sort of
the whole basis for the decision that's going to be
made.
MR. STEWART: I guess there are two
potential objections to the use of a non-Article III
judge, and one of them would be, as you say, structural;
that is, one of the objections that is sometimes made to
the use of non-Article III adjudicators is that if
Congress can parcel out part of the work of the
judiciary to other units, the stature of the judicial
branch will be diminished.
I think this particular statute doesn't
create that risk, because the use of bankruptcy judges
is entirely under the control of the district judges;
that is, the district court decides whether to refer a
bankruptcy case to the bankruptcy judge; the district
court can withdraw the referral with respect to
particular proceedings.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that just
means that the district court is acting in concert with
Congress -- take action that undermines the long-term
institutional and constitutional basis of the judiciary.
And the district courts have their different reasons and
incentives to do that. That doesn't mean that all bets
are off, and just because they're involved in the
process it's not a concern.
MR. STEWART: Well, to the extent that the
concern is with fairness to individual litigants, that
is, the idea that the Respondent in this case has a
right to an Article III tribunal and should not likely
be held to have waived it, I think that a person who
seeks affirmative relief from a court doesn't waive all
his constitutional rights, to be sure, but should
ordinarily be taken to accept the consequences that
ordinarily follow from a request for judicial relief.
And as a matter of history and tradition, one of the
consequences that follows from the assertion of an
affirmative claim is subjection to counterclaims, and
especially compulsory counterclaims.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That can't be right.
You -- you can take all sorts of matters that belong in
Article III courts, and so long as you place them in
some other tribunal where somebody is coerced into
coming in, supposedly voluntarily, it's all okay. I
mean, that's -- that's not an adequate protection.
MR. STEWART: Well, the Court has applied
this basic principle in a number of contexts. That is,
in McElrath v. United States, which is cited in the
Petitioner's brief, the plaintiff filed suit against the
United States in the Court of Claims, and the United
States then asserted counterclaims against him, and the
original plaintiff said that he had a -- a right to jury
trial under the Seventh Amendment.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's because
there's a basic sovereign immunity. The government
doesn't have to be sued at all.
MR. STEWART: The government doesn't have -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- so it can -- so it can
make conditions, but that's not this case.
MR. STEWART: Well, the government can make
conditions, but -- but the point was the plaintiff in
that situation had no alternative forum to which he
could attempt to obtain a recovery from the government.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's because of the
limitation of sovereign immunity, and you don't -- and
you don't have that analogue here.
MR. STEWART: Another example would be Adam
v. Saenger, which is also cited in the Petitioner's
brief, in which I believe it was a Texas plaintiff filed
suit in the California State courts, and the California
defendant asserted a -- a cross-complaint, basically a
counterclaim, against him, and the Texas plaintiff
objected to the California court's assertion of personal
jurisdiction.
And this Court said: By seeking affirmative
relief from the California court, you have subjected
yourself to the jurisdiction of that court for all
purposes for which justice requires. And it said the
State can make that the price it pays for seeking
affirmative judicial relief in its courts. Now, it may
have -
JUSTICE SCALIA: A State can do that, but
can the Federal Government make it the price that you
pay for -- for going into a non-Article III tribunal?
MR. STEWART: Well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a different situation,
it seems.
MR. STEWART: Well, let me step back a
second and address the questions that were posed by
Justices Sotomayor and Alito at the -- at the beginning
about the initial authority of the bankruptcy judge to
adjudicate the claim brought against the estate, because
I agree with my colleague's answer that this is a
question -- and with Justice Sotomayor, that this is a
question that this Court hasn't squarely resolved.
Now, it's true that the initial -- that the
State law claim, the defamation claim that was made the
basis for the claim against the estate, was a State law
cause of action. But as this Court said in Katchen v.
Landy, the effect of the commencement of the bankruptcy
case is to convert the claimant's potential legal claim
against the defendant into an equitable claim against
the estate.
And Respondent's equitable claim against the
estate seeking a share of the assets was a claim created
by Federal law. That is, it's true that in the course
of deciding whether Respondent was ultimately entitled
to a share of the estate, the bankruptcy court would
have been required to adjudicate State law questions and
conduct something like the same proceedings that could
have arisen in a State case, but actually obtaining a
share of the bankruptcy estate requires more than that
there be a valid debt.
The whole point of bankruptcy is to deal
with situations in which the debtor doesn't have enough
assets to go around, and so the bankruptcy court will
have to not only determine whether a valid debt exists,
but what are the relative priorities of various
creditors, what is the appropriate pro rata share for a
particular claimant, and all of that is to be resolved
under Federal law.
So, when Respondent filed a proof of claim
in the bankruptcy case, it was asserting a Federal right
cognizable under the Bankruptcy Code. And, again, none
of the -- none of the analogues that I've identified are
precisely analogous to this one, but I think it's
noteworthy that Respondent cites no contrary authority
from this Court. That is, Respondent cites no case in
which a claimant has invoked the authority of a
particular court and has asked for affirmative relief,
and this Court has held that it nevertheless had a
constitutional entitlement to be free of counterclaims.
And that seems particularly true of
compulsory counterclaims, both because they are
counterclaims that our legal system affirmatively
encourages to be brought within the same proceeding and
for the reason that Justice Ginsburg said, that in an
analogous area of the law, when we ask whether there is
Federal court jurisdiction over a counterclaim to begin
with, if the counterclaim is compulsory, there need be
no independent basis for jurisdiction.
I'd like to address quickly the statutory
question, and the relevant provisions begin at page 1a
of the Government's brief.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Will you include in that
this 157(b)(5), because this whole thing would be a
futile exercise if that tort claim comes -- comes out of
the bankruptcy judge's -
MR. STEWART: I think the 157(b)(5) is, in
our view, not jurisdictional. It deals with the -- the
respective authorities of the bankruptcy judge and the
district court within the bankruptcy case, but it
doesn't go to the question of what the -- the Federal
courts can adjudicate and the limitations on bankruptcy
court authority are waivable and subject to consent.
The court of appeals did not address the
personal injury aspect of the case. There is a -- a
lively dispute between the parties as to whether that
objection to bankruptcy court adjudication was properly
preserved, and that would be open to the court of
appeals on remand if this Court were to reverse.
On page 1a -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Stewart, do -- do
you think that we should resolve the constitutional
question if there's some significant possibility that it
wouldn't be necessary because the claims would be found
to fit into (b)(5)?
MR. STEWART: I think -- yes, I mean, this
could have been a prudential factor that might have
persuaded the Court not to grant certiorari in the first
instance, but the Court has obviously identified this as
an issue that warrants the expenditure of its resources.
And we think that the -- there is no jurisdictional
impediment to a decision in this case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does the Government have
a position on what the answer would be? We've remanded
it, but that's an open question. But does the
Government have a position on whether these kinds of
claims would have to be heard by an Article III judge?
MR. STEWART: Again, we don't have a
position with respect to the defamation claim. That is,
defamation claims may be personal injury claims in many
contexts, but in this statute, it's linked with wrongful
death, which seems to -- to cut the other way. The
actual counterclaim was not a defamation claim; it was a
tortious interference claim. And we don't think that
would be a personal injury claim.
With respect to (b)(1), it says
bankruptcy -- I see my time is up. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Englert.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. ENGLERT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
There are three possible grounds for
affirmance of the Ninth Circuit in this case, one
constitutional and two statutory; and the 157(b)(5)
ground which was preserved below received some
discussion at the very end of Mr. Stewart's argument.
But I'd like to start the meat of my argument just the
way Mr. Stewart started his argument, which is by
addressing Justice Scalia's question, and like Mr.
Richland, I'd like to talk about footnote 14 of the
Granfinanciera opinion.
Now, Granfinanciera had to distinguish
Schor, which is the only case in which this Court has
ever said a State law claim could be a public right so
that it could be adjudicated by a non-Article III forum
and not subject to the Seventh Amendment. And Schor
rested on a consent and waiver rationale and on a
structural rationale that an alternative Article III
forum was made available by Congress for everyone in Mr.
Schor's position.
In distinguishing Schor, this Court said in
footnote 14: "Parallel reasoning is unavailable in the
context of bankruptcy proceedings because creditors lack
an alternative forum to the bankruptcy court in which to
pursue their claims." So with respect, this Court has
already answered the question Justice Scalia posed by
saying a creditor may not be put to that choice. Now,
the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counselor, that sort of
begs the question, because I think what I haven't
unpackaged -- and I want you to unpackage it with me -
you're obviously not deprived of a State or Federal
trial forum to decide your claim.
What you're -- what you're deprived of -
you can get your judgment. No one's telling you, you
can't go to those courts and get a declaration of your
rights. What you're being told is you can't get paid on
it. But that happens all of the time, either by the
vagrancies of the fact that a debtor goes bankrupt and
doesn't file in the bankruptcy court or does file and
there's been a discharge.
What you haven't said to me is what entitles
you, outside of equity, and what stops either a State
court or a Federal -- a State legislature or
congressional legislature from saying, when someone is
in bankruptcy, this is the res and these are the people
who are entitled to it? It's a separate claim. It's
not the State law claim. It may be measured by State
law entitlement, but it's a separate claim. Why isn't
it just a separate claim?
MR. ENGLERT: Okay, Justice Sotomayor, in
attempting to answer your question I'd like to
distinguish sharply between a claim of the creditor
against the res, which is -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's what you have
to become to make that claim, meaning you would need to
adjudicate your State law entitlement. You get a
judgment saying she defamed you. Then what do you do
with that judgment?
MR. ENGLERT: That judgment then is covered
by the priority scheme of Federal bankruptcy laws, which
are passed pursuant to congressional authority -
constitutional authority in Article I, section 8, clause
4, which is why, in answer to the question Your Honor
asked first of Mr. Richland, although the Court has
never squarely addressed it, it's broadly accepted that
there is no problem with adjudicating what would
otherwise be State law claims by the creditor against
the debtor in bankruptcy.
It's an entirely different subject when the
debtor tries to bring a claim against a creditor.
That's what Marathon addressed; that's what
Granfinanciera addressed; that's what Katchen v. Landy
addressed.
Now, in Katchen v. Landy, the Court said the
case turned on or largely turned on the proposition that
Congress had prescribed that the counterclaim, the
preference avoidance counterclaim created by Act of
Congress, must be adjudicated before the main claim
against the res and against the debtor could or couldn't
be disallowed. And the Court returned to that theme in
footnote 14 of Granfinanciera saying: "As Katchen makes
clear, however, by submitting a claim against the
bankruptcy estate, creditors subject themselves to the
court's equitable power to disallow those claims." So
to the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's -- that's my
problem, which is if Congress could do that, why can't
it do what it did here, which is to say if you -- not to
make an equitable claim against the estate. It's not
going to be in the amount of your judgment because
they're in bankruptcy because they can't pay your
judgment. If you want a piece of this, you have to
consent to all claims, all compulsory claims -- let's
not try to get into the compulsory/permissive
category -- to be adjudicated.
Otherwise, like with preferences, there's an
unfairness that makes this unequitable. You're asking
the estate to give you something, but you're not willing
to submit in equity to deciding whether there's
something you should give the estate back.
MR. ENGLERT: And -- and -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Compulsorily. I mean,
you know, not -- I'm trying to take the permissive issue
out.
MR. ENGLERT: Sure. And the answer, I
really do submit, is footnote 14 of Granfinanciera,
pointing out that there's nowhere else to go for a
creditor in bankruptcy, which distinguishes bankruptcy
from Schor, in particular, but from all the other
settings in which the Court has said that by submitting
a claim, you subject yourself to the jurisdiction for
all purposes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Every -- every
bankruptcy priority rule extinguishes someone's
entitlement to money. The security rules mean the
people who have secured interests get paid before
unsecured people get paid, and there are insider rules.
Equity, as in terms of how the bankruptcy sets up the
res, is at the vagrancies of the legislature.
MR. ENGLERT: Exactly.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They choose what they're
going to permit you to take under what circumstances.
So why is it inequitable to -- to force you -- not to -
to force you, we'll use that word -- to say if you want
money from the res, what you trade off is letting the
debtor sue you for what you owe.
MR. ENGLERT: Well, I don't know if it's
inequitable, but it's certainly unconstitutional; and
the reason it's unconstitutional is because -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You don't have a
constitutional right to collect your debt. You have a
constitutional right to have your claim adjudicated by a
court.
MR. ENGLERT: With respect -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You can go to a -- well,
once you get the stay lifted at the end of the
discharge, you could sue the estate. You may not get a
judgment that you can collect after that.
MR. ENGLERT: With respect to the claim of
the creditor against the debtor and against the res, I
have no problem with that analysis. When the debtor,
instead of saying the res is limited and it can only be
distributed so far, instead says I get to bring my
counterclaim against the creditor in a non-Article III
forum and the non-Article III forum gets to hear it and
determine it, not just hear as 157(c)(1) says for
certain types of claims, then I suggest there is a
constitutional problem, at least with respect to claims
that neither, as in Katchen v. Landy, require rejection
of the main claim, nor, as in Katchen v. Landy, are
governed by Federal statute.
This is a State common law action for a
tort, which has importance for 157(b)(5), which has
importance for 157(b)(2), and which has extremely high
importance for the constitutional question.
In Marathon, as everyone here knows, there
was no majority opinion, but one point very much in
common between the plurality and the concurrence of
Justice -- then-Justice Rehnquist, was that it mattered
a great deal that it was a common law claim under State
law.
Here we have a common law claim -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Without a proof of
claim?
MR. ENGLERT: Yes. There was no proof of
claim in Marathon, so this case presents a different
issue than Marathon does. But it does present
categorically the same kinds of issues presented in
Katchen, Langenkamp, and Schor.
The only one of those cases that allowed a
State common law claim to go forward -- a State common
law counterclaim to go forward was Schor. And the
Court, as Mr. Richland correctly said, divided its
opinion into a part dealing with the personal rights
conferred by Article III, section 1, and the structural
rights protected by Article III, section 1.
In the part about personal rights, the Court
held Mr. Schor had waived his personal right to an
Article III forum. In the part about structural rights
at page 855 of that opinion, the Court said that it
mattered to the constitutional analysis that Congress
had made an Article III forum available for pursuit of
that claim.
So it is terribly, terribly important
whether an Article III forum is available. When one is
forced into a non-Article III forum, as Pierce Marshall
was, if he wanted to have any opportunity to collect
from the res, saying that he thereby in some meaningful
way consents and saying that the structural purposes of
Article III are not implicated is not in line with this
Court's cases.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Englert, something
you just said about if he had any opportunity -- I
thought his position was this is a nondischargeable
debt. Even if it's discharged in bankruptcy, this debt
would survive.
MR. ENGLERT: That's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it wouldn't be wiped
out? I mean, it would -
MR. ENGLERT: Oh -- Justice Ginsburg, I'm
sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He would have another
forum.
MR. ENGLERT: He would have another forum
against her post-bankruptcy assets after she had her -
her pre-bankruptcy assets distributed. So it's a -
it's a different kind of opportunity to recover from a
different set of assets. If he wanted to have any shot
at any of her pre-bankruptcy assets, he did have to file
a proof of claim and not just a nondischargeability
complaint.
And let me clear up one very minor aspect of
the record while I'm talking about the proof of claim
and the nondischargeability complaint. I doubt this
ends up mattering to the Court's decision, but Mr.
Richland misspoke slightly when he said the counterclaim
came weeks after the proof of claim. The proof of claim
was June 12th. The counterclaim was June 14th, and in
its very first paragraph, it says it is a counterclaim
to the nondischargeability complaint. It doesn't
purport to be a counterclaim to the proof of claim. I
doubt this ends up mattering, but it might be important
for this single purpose: It is inconceivable that this
was a compulsory counterclaim to the nondischargeability
complaint. It might have been a compulsory counterclaim
to the proof of claim, but not to the
nondischargeability complaint.
Now, I've explained why I believe -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Just one more point about
the nondischargeability. He didn't have to bring that
claim, did he? I mean, if it's -- if it's a
nondischargeable debt, he doesn't have to have the
bankruptcy judge confirm that it's a nondischargeability
debt.
MR. ENGLERT: Given -- I haven't studied
closely the interaction between the automatic stay of
section 362 and the nondischargeability complaint of
section 523, so I'm not 100 percent sure my answer to
Your Honor is correct. But I believe that's not
correct. I believe that in order to preserve the
argument that something is nondischargeable, one does
have to go to the bankruptcy court under section 523 and
seek a determination of nondischargeability.
Now, the two statutory arguments are before
the Court, and I'd like to say something briefly about
each of those two statutory arguments.
With regard to 157(b)(2), you have heard
Mr. Richland say this afternoon that the lower courts
limit subparagraphs (A) and (O) with the language
"arising in" and "arising under." You heard Mr.
Richland say 157(b)(2)(C), subparagraph (C), doesn't
need to be so limited because it's so straightforward.
But the point is not how straightforward it
is; the point is how broad and constitutionally dubious
it is. And if the canon of constitutional avoidance
means anything in limiting the scope of 157(b)(2), it
should have just as much application to (C) as it does
to (A) and (O), and the -- it is not as analytically
neat as some other cases of statutory interpretation,
but the most obvious way, if one is going to limit the
reach of (C) as well as (A) and (O), to do so is to take
the words "arising in" and "arising under" just as Mr.
Richland concedes they are used in limiting (A) and (O).
The alternative is to treat those words as
surplusage, and the alternative is to run headlong into
the constitutional issues.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can you go back to that for
one second? I understand the due process issue, which
is Brandeis's issue in Crowell. I think I can -- you're
not going to say anything that I can't read in the brief
on that. But the other one is worrying me, the
structural issue.
So imagine there's no due process concern
whatsoever. Now, when I looked at Crowell, your case
would seem to fall right in it. It is an adjudication
under the law as such, you know, between two people -
whatever that famous line is. You're captured by that
one. So the question is: Can you get out of it with
later cases? And you point to Schor to get out of it.
And Schor, as I read it, is an all-factors
case, that when she talks in the structural part of -
about -- when Justice O'Connor is talking about the
non-due process part, the structural part, just what you
said, that there isn't a hard-and-fast rule, that there
are a bunch of factors that we should look at. At least
that's how I read it. And you were reading it as a
hard-and-fast rule which means you win.
Now -- now, who's -- should I just read this
case further and make up my mind about that, or is there
something you want to say about it?
MR. ENGLERT: Well, no, Justice Breyer, I
think I can agree with most or all of your premises and
still argue that we should win under the proper
constitutional analysis.
The point is not that the opinion of the
Court in Schor said in so many words that the
availability of an alternative Article III forum is
dispositive. The point is it has to be dispositive,
given the larger sweep of this Court's cases, because
otherwise it is simply an all-factors test governing a
structural provision of the Constitution.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you know, that's what
she says. And the -- and what you're interested in
there, the key thing is not fairness; the key thing is
maintaining the integrity of the judicial system. In
Crowell, Justice Hughes says you've made that integrity
as long as there were review of matters of fact, the
independent decision by a court of questions of law, and
reservation to the court of constitutional facts which
have never been heard of since. Okay?
So we have this case. And your issue is,
after all, something that for many, many decades or
longer has been the subject of a bankruptcy proceeding.
The bankruptcy judge is an adjunct to the court. It is
well-established, this kind of review. Every part of
Crowell is met. So what is -- what is essential to the
integrity of the judicial process that requires you to
have a de novo hearing before a district court rather
than the kind of review that's given here?
MR. ENGLERT: Well, those, with respect,
Your Honor, I believe are the arguments that were
rejected in Marathon.
JUSTICE BREYER: In which case?
MR. ENGLERT: In Marathon, in Northern
Pipeline v. Marathon.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, Marathon, you know,
you had four, four and -- and who knows what it stands
for. And then we have a sentence of what it stands for,
and if you read that one sentence, I don't think you can
say it's a slam-dunk for you.
MR. ENGLERT: Well, I'm not saying Marathon
makes this case a slam-dunk for me, Justice Breyer. I
am saying Marathon rejects many, if not all, of the
premises of your question, starting with -
JUSTICE BREYER: Of the -- of Marathon and
saying, where four and four judges really reject a
decision like Crowell, which is a kind of foundation
stone?
MR. ENGLERT: No, I'm suggesting that they
reject one particular interpretation of Crowell, a very
broad interpretation of Crowell, because -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, Crowell involved
public rights in the -- in the narrow sense, didn't it?
It was -- it was a public suit.
MR. ENGLERT: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: True, but it's also a -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And perhaps there should be
different standards. Even if you do not agree with my
separate opinion in Granfinanciera that that should be
the only category, there may well be different standards
for public suits in the narrow sense that were involved
in Crowell and public suits which are -- are governed by
some totality of the circumstances test, which -
MR. ENGLERT: I -- I agree with that -
excuse me, Justice Scalia. I do agree with that, and I
think one doesn't have to adopt the reasoning of the
concurrence in the judgment in Granfinanciera to come to
that conclusion. I think part IV of Granfinanciera
itself supports that proposition.
But I also think -- returning to Justice
Breyer's question, I do think Marathon does stand for
certain propositions that this Court has accepted in
later cases and that -- and that do suggest that Crowell
is not to be read broadly and that some of the
limitations on Crowell are the ones suggested in Justice
Scalia's questions.
The -- the thing that the concurrence, the
two-justice concurrence in Marathon, agreed with the
plurality on was that what was fundamental to the
disposition of that case was that the claim by the
debtor against the creditor was the stuff of common law
at Westminster in 1789. It was a State law claim, not
by the creditor against the debtor, but by the debtor
against the creditor. And -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because there was no
bankruptcy court handle to start with. There was no
claim. If you're going to go back to equity, equity
lays hold of a claim that fits within the equity court,
and then, as you know, there were clean-up and clear-up
doctrines so they could decide the whole case.
So I think that the one thing one can say
about Marathon is that when the debtor has a claim
against the creditor and the creditor hasn't made any
claim in the bankruptcy, he can't drag that into
bankruptcy court. But once the bankruptcy court has
authority over the claim, the creditor's claim against
the debtor, then the court can clear up the whole
matter.
MR. ENGLERT: If all we were talking about,
Justice Ginsburg, were doctrines of equity, then perhaps
Alexander v. Hillman would be the governing precedent, a
non-constitutional case later cited in a Seventh
Amendment case and now attempts to be imported into an
Article III case.
But I do respectfully suggest that the
Constitution places tighter limits on the authority of
non-Article III tribunals to adjudicate counterclaims
than just the general and very permissive rules that
allowed equity courts to adjudicate counterclaims
without -- Alexander v. Hillman was a case about whole
Equity Rule 30 and whether it superseded section 51 of
the Judicial Code and its venue provisions and personal
jurisdiction provisions. If all we were talking about
were equity, that would be a fine analysis.
But I do read the collection of this Court's
cases, including the crucial decisions in Katchen and
Langenkamp which involved Federal counterclaims that by
statute defeated the main claim, and Schor, which I do
believe relied heavily on the consent theory and on the
availability of an Article III forum -- I do read that
collection of cases to suggest that there are tighter
limits on assigning State law claims and State law
counterclaims to non-Article III tribunals -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, by your theory,
you're basically saying that Congress cannot delegate
any State law-based claim to which a jury is entitled to
the bankruptcy counterclaim at all. So if you have a
claim by lawyers for their fees in a defense of
malpractice, maybe they can adjudicate that, but they
can't adjudicate the malpractice claim. It would be a
counterclaim. Correct?
MR. ENGLERT: I am saying that, Your Honor,
but let me say for a moment why that's not inefficient,
why that's not such a surprising proposition. Remember,
the bankruptcy court can hear all of these claims unless
they're covered by 157(b)(5). It just can't determine
them.
So, the only thing we're talking about is
the standard of review. And with respect to -- it's not
a surprising proposition that the requirement of an
Article III forum does require that the district court,
the Article III court, decide those claims. So -- so
the -- my position is as broad as Your Honor's question
suggests, but the implications are not quite as broad as
Mr. Richland suggested when he said that an Article III
forum always brings in inefficiency.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Englert, one real
difference between Marathon and this case is that
Congress passed legislation in between which brought the
bankruptcy judges under the control of the district
courts and made them entirely Article III entities. So
you can look at a case like Marathon -- I mean, not -
supervised by Article III entities, not by the
President, not by Congress.
So one can look at a case like Marathon and
say the problem there was that the President appointed
the bankruptcy judges in a way that the President no
longer does and that the district courts did not have
the supervisory control over the bankruptcy judges in
the way that they do now, and that that makes a
constitutional difference.
MR. ENGLERT: I -- I would respectfully
subject -- suggest not, Justice Kagan, because there
remains a difference between a non-Article III court and
an Article III court, and the degree of supervision does
not convert the non-Article III court into an Article
III court. It simply means that we've gotten to this
non-Article III forum in a way that gives slightly
tighter control to the judiciary.
But as a whole line of cases, including
Crowell v. Benson, suggests, the degree of substantive
review of individual decisions by non-Article III
tribunals matters. It's not just the front end at which
the judges or commissioners or whatever they are of the
non-Article III tribunal are selected. It's also the
back end at which the Article III forum is either really
making the Article III decisions or giving deferential
review to the decisions of a non-Article I court. So I
do think the problem is not solved simply by a different
method of appointment of -- of bankruptcy courts.
Now, if I may, I'd like to spend a few
minutes on section 157(b)(5). It was interesting to me
that Mr. Stewart said the Government had no -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Just clarify one point,
Mr. Englert. As I understand it, before the code was
amended, when the Federal courts were operating under
the interim rule, it was standard that the bankruptcy
judges, given a claim against the estate, routinely
dealt with counterclaims. Isn't that what the practice
was when the interim rule was in effect?
MR. ENGLERT: I -- I believe the answer is
yes, Justice Ginsburg. I can concede that point. But
there was, I believe, de novo review in district court.
And in any event, the interim rules were in effect for a
very short time as the arc of constitutional decision
making goes.
Marathon was decided in 1982. Congress
passed new legislation in 1984, and it took quite
sometime for the interim rules to be put into effect.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But did all of those court
of appeals cases involve Article III claims? Did they
pass upon the Article III contention?
If not, it's -- it's our clear law that
questions -- jurisdictional questions that aren't raised
and discussed are not decided for precedential purposes.
How -- how many of those cases grappled with the Article
III question?
MR. ENGLERT: I -- I don't have a case count
for you, Justice Scalia. Some did, I must concede that
some did, but certainly not all did.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but not most, I
don't think.
MR. ENGLERT: Not most, and they were only
decisions of -- of lower courts, not of this Court.
Now, on the personal injury tort provision
in section 157(b)(5), which, by the way, is also
repeated in 157(b)(2)(B) and in 157(b)(2)(O) to give
emphasis to the fact that Congress really did not want
bankruptcy judges trying personal injury tort claims.
The -- the greatest dispute before this Court is not
whether we are right about 157(b)(5). Mr. Richland in
his -- in his reply brief says we're not right, but I
leave the Court to assess those arguments, but -- and
Mr. Stewart takes no position. The greatest dispute is
whether that issue was preserved for review.
And I want to suggest to this Court that it
was clearly preserved for review. In the proof of claim
filed on June 12th, 1996, Mr. Marshall, Pierce Marshall,
checked the box indicating that he was filing a personal
injury tort claim. So from literally the first document
that potentially brought this issue before the
bankruptcy court, it was noted that it was a personal
injury tort claim. Twenty-seven months passed before he
moved to withdraw the reference, that's true.
What's not true is that anything had
happened on the defamation claim during those 27 months,
and what's not true is that any court below held that
delay against Pierce Marshall. If you look at pages 109
to 112 of the Joint Appendix filed in this Court, you
will see that the timeliness of the motion to withdraw
the reference was actually discussed in the motion
itself. That's a matter easily accessible to this
Court.
Judge Keller granted the motion to withdraw
the reference. He said, Pierce Marshall, you're right.
Then he reversed himself. And you can find his ruling
reversing himself at pages 138 to 139 of the Joint
Appendix filed in this Court, but he did not reverse
himself on timeliness grounds.
Our respectful submission is that by
granting the motion and then reversing on other grounds,
he clearly accepted its timeliness. In any event, the
issue was clearly raised in the bankruptcy court and in
the district court -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Excuse me, I just couldn't
hear. On what grounds did he reverse himself, do you
think?
MR. ENGLERT: He concluded that the
bankruptcy court actually did have authority to hear the
claim and the counterclaim on the merits.
JUSTICE BREYER: If -- if we were to decide
this case, and suppose we decide every other question
and suppose you lost, then wouldn't we send it back for
you -- if you're right on that, for the Ninth Circuit to
decide about that as an independent basis for no
jurisdiction?
MR. ENGLERT: Given the premise that I've
lost every other issue, the Court could either -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I had to make that premise
in order to -
MR. ENGLERT: No, no, I understand. I
understand, but given the premise, the Court could then
either then reach an alternative ground for affirmance,
which is well within the ordinary operation of this
Court's rules or send it back. But let me suggest that
there is a reason, and I believe a -- a question from
one member of the bench earlier suggested that there
might be a reason to reach the 157(b)(5) issue, and to
put it colloquially and directly, the 157(b)(5) issue is
easy. The constitutional question is hard.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is -- is?
MR. ENGLERT: Is easy. The constitutional
question is hard.
JUSTICE BREYER: If it's that hard, why
don't we just DIG the case? I guess that -
(Laughter.)
MR. ENGLERT: No, but really, the 157(b)(5)
question is -- is easy, but the strongest argument
Mr. Richland makes on the merits of the 157(b)(5) claim
is that Congress meant only bodily injury when it
referred to personal injury. But section 522(d)(11) of
the code uses the term "bodily injury," so we know that
when Congress means bodily injury, it says bodily
injury. It's also been suggested that the phrase
"personal injury or wrongful death" is a phrase to which
the canons of interpretation, noscitur a sociis and
ejusdem generis, somehow apply. That's not why Congress
used "personal injury or wrongful death."
Until 1846, with Lord Campbell's Act, the
common law of England was that a wrongful death claim
didn't survive, couldn't be brought by the -- by the
heirs, because the victim of the tort was dead.
It is quite common all around the country to
use the phrase "personal injury or wrongful death" to
make clear that the tort being covered is a tort that
resulted in injury to someone who survived or is a tort
that resulted in death. So there's nothing surprising
about the use of that phrase. It doesn't mean bodily
injury. And for those who look at legislative history,
there is legislative history indicating quite
emphatically that the members of Congress who were
responsible for adding 157(b)(5), amending 157(b)(2)(B),
amending 157(b)(O), and putting the abstention
provisions in section 1334(c) really meant for
bankruptcy judges to keep their hands off personal
injury claims.
The main claim in this case that conceivably
could have given the bankruptcy court jurisdiction, if I
lose on the other issues, was Pierce's defamation claim,
not Vickie's intentional interference claim. We would
respectfully suggest they're both personal injury tort
claims, but it's particularly clear that Pierce's
defamation claim is an injury to his personal interest
in reputation.
So either by resolving the constitutional
issue or through the canon of constitutional avoidance,
or simply because it is the best reading of 157(b)(2),
this Court should affirm the Ninth Circuit. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Richland, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KENT L. RICHLAND
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. RICHLAND: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Let me address immediately this question of
whether Judge Keller effectively denied this -- this
withdrawal motion on timeliness grounds or not, because
that truly is the easy way of resolving this personal
injury question. The substantive question of whether
these particular torts fall within the personal injury
exception is a most difficult one, and it is one that
this Court really shouldn't take on unless there's a
substantial amount more of briefing and input from -
from others.
But the waiver issue is an easy one, and the
reason it's an easy one is the record is undisputed that
it was 27 months between the time that this claim -
counterclaim was -- claim was filed and between the time
that this personal injury issue was raised in a
withdrawal motion. During that period of time there
were numerous sanctions motions and numerous sanctions,
discovery sanctions imposed upon Pierce Marshall. And,
in fact, what happened was Judge Keller, before
considering the initial withdrawal motion on the
merits -- before having a hearing on it, he initially
granted the withdrawal. He then had a hearing, and at
the hearing what he said was -- he may not have used the
word "timeliness," but what he said was you've chosen
this forum, the bankruptcy court is immersed in this
case, and he used the colorful phrase what you are
experiencing here is the spawn of what you have begot.
And I think that that clearly imports the
nature that you are too late, you have not brought this
in a timely fashion; everything that has happened in the
bankruptcy court has made it too late for you to come to
this court at this time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I would take that to
mean you -- you brought it in here, and, you know, the
same kind of argument that you were making.
MR. RICHLAND: And that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Volenti non fit injuria.
You chose to come into the court, and this is the spawn
of your coming in.
MR. RICHLAND: And the bankruptcy court is
so immersed in this because of what has gone on during
the bankruptcy proceedings that it is not appropriate
for me to withdraw it. That seems to connote clearly
the notion that it is not timely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would -- well, I would
rather say 27 months is too long. That's --
MR. RICHLAND: And that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's timely.
MR. RICHLAND: Well, 27 months is a long
time in bankruptcy.
Let me clear up this issue of whether the
counterclaim was to the proof of claim or to the
dischargeability. On the appendix to the petition, page
379, it is quite clearly stated that it was in response
to 170 -- 157(b)(2)(C). That is a counterclaim to a
person who has filed a claim.
On -- with respect to this issue of State
law having some great significance here as opposed to
Federal law, that issue has been rejected by this Court.
In the Schor case, the majority opinion states very
clearly that, in fact, there is no significance to the
fact that -- that something is a State law claim as
opposed to a Federal claim.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, but his basic
argument I think is that in Marathon -
MR. RICHLAND: There is -
JUSTICE BREYER: Make it totally fair.
Nobody is being treated unfairly. Structurally, it does
injure the -- the prestige or something or the structure
or the integrity of the Federal Government -- judiciary,
Federal judiciary -- to allow the bankruptcy judge to
adjudicate a direct claim; why is a counterclaim
different?
MR. RICHLAND: Well, I understand that
argument, but the majority opinion in Schor states that
the State law character of a claim, quote, "has no
talismanic power in Article III inquiries." That's 478
at 853.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 2:01 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
53:13 adopt 39:11 32:11 36:24 arising 35:5,5,17 41:1 47:4
affirmance 25:7 analytically Article 4:3,20,22 6:21
affirmative analyzed 6:7,12 9:13,15 13:14 availability 37:2
46:22 affirmatively 21:3 24:11 27:6 24:14 25:22 32:12,15
agreed 9:1 39:23 44:21 43:10,11,21,22 13:7 24:2,23
40:21 41:5 1:16 53:6 20:23 29:5
alleging 3:16 applicable 6:4 aspect 23:17 26:18
50:5 allowed 31:25 application 35:12 assert 16:10 basic 4:23 19:7
28:1,2,3 all-factors 36:10 19:6 20:6 basically 20:6
alternative 19:22 apply 13:5 48:18 assertion 18:22 basis 4:10 5:10
5:2,11 47:19 43:25 assets 21:15 began 9:25
21:2,19 ambiguous 12:7 approached 4:6 22:1 33:10,11 beginning 20:25
27:11 amended 44:6 appropriate 5:20 33:13,14 begot 51:6
amending 49:8,9 15:22 16:9 22:4 assigning 41:17 begs 26:9
Amendment 51:21 assume 4:13 5:7 behalf 1:18,21
25:19 28:8 25:20 40:23 area 9:6 22:23 assumed 9:17 2:14 3:7 16:2
30:12 amicus 1:21 2:8 argue 36:23 assumes 5:1 25:3 50:3
amount 7:12,14 2:2,5,9,12 3:4,6 attempting 27:6 believe 10:6 20:4
36:5 analogous 22:11 25:12 34:21 authorities 23:11 41:14 44:11,13
analogue 20:1 52:19 53:4 5:2 8:3,20,21 belong 19:1
10:14 11:23 canons 48:17 cited 19:8 20:3 comfortable 13:4 conduct 21:20
captured 36:7 40:22 coming 19:4 conferred 32:5
49:4 10:3 31:25 claimant 22:5,14 commencement 5:17,23 6:1,3
37:7 38:3 31:23 27:22 28:14,23 40:1 48:21,24 congressional
39:1 categories 11:22 28:23 31:2,3 compelled 16:17 26:24 27:16
48:5 12:7,11,22 13:3 41:17 42:5,12 complaint 14:17 connote 51:22
13:7,8 44:21 45:14 33:16,19,25 consent 23:15
23:4 35:25 39:5 clause 27:17 Compulsorily consents 32:19
cause 21:9 clean-up 40:9 29:7 consequences
34:10 15:5 30:8 45:5 clearly 11:8 28:23 34:4,5 constitute 13:10
35:9 cheating 3:12 clear-up 40:9 concede 44:12 37:6 41:1
42:13,14 checked 45:24 closely 5:18 45:4 constitutional
18:4 24:25 25:4 22:9 41:7 44:5 conceivably 18:7,18 22:17
42:19 choice 3:15 coerced 19:3 concern 18:11,13 27:17 30:11,12
48:22 51:8 14:13,18 16:10 cognizable 22:9 36:3 31:3,10 32:11
16:12 26:6 colleague's 21:3 concerning 12:18 35:10,21 36:24
chosen 51:3 colloquially concurrence 3:20 35:9
49:24 colorful 51:5 39:23 11:25 12:24
24:18 21:16 38:22 D defendant 16:15 52:7
43:4,14 18:8 19:2 20:5 dead 48:23 deferential 43:22 44:25 46:11
26:15 35:3 41:4 21:24 31:15 defines 12:16 disposition 39:25
13:10 44:6 45:9 deals 23:10 delay 46:8 37:3
33:2 32:21 33:20 48:16,19,21,25 Department 1:20 disputes 6:22
38:25 37:4 41:10 49:3 depend 6:9 distinguish 8:1
47:21 debt 14:1 21:23 deprived 26:11 8:19 25:16 27:7
41:19 created 5:18,23 debtor 21:25 6:13 9:4 10:9 25:25
53:9,10 6:1,1 21:15 26:18 27:23,25 34:23 distributed 30:23
8:10,13,16 29:13 30:20,24 decide 3:21 6:22 determines 11:3 18:8 23:12
9:1 40:1,3,4,13,13 11:3 15:15 determining 9:19 37:23 42:11,20
10:5 creditors 6:23 26:12 40:10 12:10 43:3 44:13
22:4 26:2 28:13 42:12 47:6,7,10 difference 8:12 46:24
12:4 20:7 creditor's 40:16 decided 9:10,22 42:18 43:6,9 divided 32:3
24:20 criminal 16:14 9:23 44:17,25 different 16:25 divides 13:16
30:24 17:6 decides 17:25 18:8 20:21 doctrine 14:3
33:21,23 cross-appeal deciding 11:15 27:24 31:21 16:8
34:1,4,5 15:18 21:17 29:4 33:12,13 39:3,5 doctrines 40:10
42:1 47:5 cross-complaint decision 13:21 43:24 53:2 40:20
52:6,9 20:6 17:1,12 24:9 difficult 9:7 document 45:25
cross-examined 33:20 37:13 50:11 doubt 33:19 34:2
7:9,21 8:2 Crowell 35:24 decisions 41:11 diminished 17:21 drag 40:14
9:12 11:9 36:4 37:11,21 43:17,22,23 direct 53:1 dubious 35:9
19:11 38:17,20,21,22 45:9 directly 4:6 due 35:23 36:3
39:7,18,20 declaration 47:25 D.C 1:10,20,23
43:16 26:15 disallow 28:14
crucial 41:11 defamation 21:7 disallowed 28:10 E
50:8,15 entitles 26:21 extent 13:19,20 50:18 52:10 G
enumerated 18:12 filing 11:10 12:5 G 3:1
equal 14:13 29:19 final 15:14 14:23 41:3
47:13,19 especially 18:24 5:25 6:8,10,18 45:25 34:9 40:5,20
ESQ 1:17,19,23 9:5 10:7,25 fit 12:1 24:2 44:4,12
5:13 6:3 50:23 52:15,16 footnote 14:10 47:12,18 49:14
14:7 21:2,8,13 fair 52:21 force 30:3,4 22:1 23:13
27:5 event 44:14 12:13 36:5 25:19,23 26:3 40:7
29:6,10 46:22 50:10 26:12 30:25,25 goes 26:18 44:16
30:7,14 Exactly 29:25 falsely 3:12 32:9,12,15,16 going 13:21
31:20 example 6:6 7:5 famous 36:7 33:8,9 37:2 17:12 20:19
33:2,5,9 14:13 15:7 far 3:17 30:23 41:15 42:11,16 28:20 30:2
36:21 16:14 20:2 fashion 51:9 43:13,21 51:4 35:15,25 40:7
38:4,11 examples 17:3 Federal 6:10,17 forward 32:1,2 gotten 43:12
39:9 excellent 9:3 10:3 14:4 20:18 found 24:1 governed 31:6
42:2,17 exception 50:11 21:16 22:6,8,24 foundation 38:17 39:7
44:5,11 excuse 3:24 4:8 23:13 26:11,23 four 12:8 38:7,7 governing 37:5
47:3,12 39:10 46:25 27:15 31:6 38:16,16 40:21
48:3,8 EXECUTOR 1:3 41:12 44:6 free 22:17 government 5:15
42:21 exercise 23:7 Fifth 16:22 4:24 17:2,5,9 24:10,13 44:3
27:1 experiencing filed 3:10 10:10 6:9 23:4
6:8 7:5 8:4 high 31:9 inconceivable intended 3:13 24:14 34:13
25:15,16 Hillman 14:24 34:3 intentional 49:16 37:19 46:14
29:11 40:21 41:5 independent interaction 34:16 50:6,23 52:25
history 18:21 23:1 37:13 interest 49:19 judges 17:23,24
Honor 3:24 4:8 8:16 interests 29:21 45:14 49:11
hostile 16:18,23
Hughes 37:11 43:17 10:25 12:4 13:9 judicial 17:20
42:16 48:17 37:10,22 41:7
47:1 idea 13:4 18:14 inequitable 30:3 invoked 22:14 17:20 18:7
identified 7:5 30:8 involve 44:21 43:14 52:24,25
imagine 36:3 inflexible 16:13 18:10 38:22 45:23
50:5 12:23 involvement 4:24,24 7:4
50:23 51:9 implicated 32:20 injuria 51:16 35:23,24 36:2 4:23 8:14,17
31:9,10 48:11,12,13,14 50:15,19 52:5 41:21
42:5 47:1 imported 40:23 49:19 50:9,10 35:21 49:15
imports 51:7 50:19 items 12:17 K
37:15 improper 15:21 inquiries 53:6 Kagan 6:20
51:1,2 include 11:9,12 instance 15:20 January 1:11 43:8
32:8 46:7 including 41:11 integrity 37:10 judge 15:2 17:16 41:11
41:17,17 44:23 12:9,11 13:5,15 18:21 40:18 52:3
19:14,18 52:16 53:5 46:8 49:5 mattered 31:14 10:8 46:10,11
46:25 laws 27:15 looked 6:8 36:4 32:11 46:14,21 50:7
lawyers 41:23 looking 11:17,20 mattering 33:20 50:20,24
3:6 50:2 lays 40:8 Lord 48:20 matters 11:13 moved 46:4
33:12 legislation 42:19 lost 47:8,13 McElrath 19:8 N
38:17 44:18 lower 13:4 35:3 mean 12:10 18:9 N 2:1,1 3:1 11:22
legislative 49:5,6 45:9 19:5 24:3 29:7 13:7
26:24 29:24 34:11 42:22 39:6
29:8 30:7 let's 28:23 main 8:15 28:8 meaning 27:10 neat 35:14
37:7 38:6 lift 15:2 31:5 41:13 meaningful necessary 24:1
48:13 lifted 30:16 49:13 32:18 need 4:11 8:6
limit 35:4,15 maintaining means 18:5 22:25 27:10
limitations 13:6 majority 31:12 43:12 48:14 neither 31:4
39:20 52:14 53:4 meant 48:11 net 9:18
3:6 16:1 35:7 44:16 51:14 meat 25:11 37:15
limiting 7:24 MALCOLM member 47:23 nevertheless
31:4,5 41:1,17 41:24,25 11:21 Ninth 25:7 47:9
41:12 43:15 Marathon 5:1 48:10 50:25 non 51:16
35:4 liquidation 10:15 31:11,21,22 method 43:25 9:25 10:4,9
little 16:24,25 44:17 52:19 misspoke 33:21 32:24 34:12,21
long 19:2 37:12 3:4,10 32:16 money 3:13,18 17:15,18 20:19
25:18 51:25 52:3 45:23,23 46:8 3:18 7:12 29:20 25:19 30:24,25
longer 37:18 46:15 50:22 30:5 32:16 41:2,18
43:3 Marshall's 3:11 month 10:9 43:9,11,13,17
opportunity parts 13:17 place 7:18 16:9 premises 36:22
opposed 52:12 pass 13:13 44:22 places 41:1 prescribed 28:6
15:1 optional 14:14 46:3 19:21 20:4,7 presented 15:3
34:20 47:16 percent 34:18 point 10:18 11:7 25:9 45:20,22
original 19:12 permit 15:9 30:2 37:3 44:4,12 33:11,14
35:4,13 owe 30:6 20:8 23:17 posed 20:24 26:5 19:7
owed 3:18 14:2 24:17,22 32:4,7 posit 7:23 principles 11:25
P 3:1 49:11,17,19 42:13 45:19 29:19
29:21,22 Petitioner 1:5,18 potential 17:15 28:17 30:21
37:15 part 13:18 17:19 20:3 power 28:14 53:6 proceed 15:10
32:4,10 particularly 9:8 Pierce's 49:15 preferences 29:1 51:21
39:4 22:18 49:18 49:18 premise 8:23 process 7:14
53:4 parties 9:1 23:18 Pipeline 38:5 47:12,15,18 9:16 11:2 18:11
36:3,13 putting 49:9 29:11 38:16 Remember 42:4 49:17
p.m 1:15 3:2 43:21 45:13 repeated 45:12 respective 23:11
10:10,18 50:12 45:17 2:11 18:14
12:5 Q reason 8:18 reputation 49:20 21:17 22:7,12
22:7 question 5:6 13:15 22:22 request 10:8 22:13 25:3
33:15 10:14,15,25 30:9 47:22,24 15:18 18:20 Respondents
13:11 16:7 21:4 50:16 requested 15:16 4:13 8:9
45:22 21:5 23:3,13,25 reasoning 26:1 15:17 Respondent's
24:12 25:13 39:11 requesting 14:20 21:14
42:4,10 42:13 45:2 47:7 received 25:9 required 21:19 rested 25:21
50:5,9,9 50:16 8:17 42:10 returned 28:10
questioning recovery 19:23 8:14 reverse 15:16
quite 42:14 44:18 regard 35:2 37:14 37:24 42:9
41:7,8 quote 53:5 Rehnquist 6:14 residual 16:22 45:20,22
9:5 31:14 resist 16:17,22 Richland 1:17
25:18 raised 44:24 52:13 resolved 21:5 4:21 5:5,8,24
39:6,7 46:23 50:19 rejection 31:4 22:5 6:21,25 7:22,25
34:3 25:21,22 relative 22:3 resources 24:7 12:20 14:9 15:5
29:17 35:16 47:19,24 relied 41:14 15:2 18:2 24:16 32:3 33:21 35:3
44:25 read 35:25 36:10 relief 14:21 24:23 26:4 35:6,18 42:15
reading 36:16 reluctance 16:12 52:11 51:19 52:1,3,20
44:19 really 7:18 11:4 remand 23:21 respectfully 12:20 13:19
13:16 15:12 remanded 24:11 40:25 43:7 14:4,7 16:15,17
17:1,5 Scalia 13:25 14:9 sentence 38:8,9 20:25 21:4 26:8 41:13
18:15,25 15:1 18:25 separate 27:1,3 27:5,9 28:16 statutes 3:22
22:8 20:17,21 26:5 27:4 39:4 29:7,18 30:1,10 12:10
30:11,12 38:22 39:2,10 set 7:11,15,15 30:15 31:18 statutory 10:23
36:5 45:16 44:20 45:4,6 33:13 41:19 10:25 11:6,25
46:15 51:12,16,24 sets 29:23 sovereign 19:15 12:23 23:2 25:8
52:2 setting 9:13 19:25 34:24 35:1,14
18:18 25:13 39:21 Seventh 19:13 specific 13:7 15:2 30:16
32:4,6,7 scheme 5:19 25:20 40:22 specifically 34:16
38:23 27:15 share 21:15,18 11:16 12:17 step 10:12 20:23
16:24 25:25 29:14 short 44:15 27:20 15:25 16:1,4
18:4 24:25 31:24 32:2,8 shot 33:13 stand 16:20 17:4,14 18:12
53:9 36:9,10 37:1 significance 39:16 19:6,17,20 20:2
Schor's 13:15 similar 12:13 standards 39:3,5 25:12 44:3
41:6 scope 7:6 11:21 43:12,24 49:23 start 25:11 40:6 Stewart's 25:10
35:11 single 34:3 started 25:12 stone 38:18
44:14,19 35:23 situation 5:15 38:14 straightforward
section 27:17 9:13 19:22 State 6:5,17 12:3 13:9 35:7
48:12 slam-dunk 38:10 21:21 25:18 11:8
24:24 46:10 sociis 48:17 41:21 52:11,16 36:11,13 37:6
27:12 21:15 somebody 19:3 statements 3:16 structure 10:23
30:22 seeks 18:17 someone's 29:19 states 1:1,14,21 11:6 52:23
38:11 seemingly 5:18 soon 7:16 2:7 11:9 16:2 studied 34:15
41:20 selected 43:20 sorry 3:25 33:6 19:8,10,11 stuff 6:15 40:1
self-standing sort 7:2 17:11 52:14 53:4 subject 4:24
30:23 send 47:8,21 sorts 19:1 statute 8:1 11:1 27:24 28:13
33:24 37:8 sense 4:23 17:9 Sotomayor 3:23 11:5 12:9 13:1 29:16 37:18
45:17 38:23 39:6 4:1,7,9,16 5:4,6 13:5 17:22 43:8
sent 15:19 7:20,23 13:12 24:18 31:6 subjected 20:11
42:10 49:3 thing 6:11 7:2 treatment 11:1 unfairness 29:2
survived 49:2 40:11 42:8 tribunal 17:2 United 1:1,14,21
system 6:4 7:10 4:25 6:14,25 20:19 43:20 19:10,10
12:15 13:11 43:18 unpackage 26:10
T 1:7,23 2:1,1,10 18:16 22:11 tries 27:25 26:10
50:9 16:20 18:6 19:1 35:24 36:22 22:18 39:1 46:4 17:15,18,23
40:25 18:19 51:7 52:19 trying 29:8 45:14 utilize 7:13
43:8 takes 45:19 thought 32:24 Tuesday 1:11
47:21 talismanic 53:6 three 25:6 turned 28:5,5 V
talk 13:1 25:14 tighter 41:1,16 Twenty-seven v 1:6 3:4 14:23
42:15 talking 7:8 9:14 time 15:13 24:24 two 6:23 8:20 28:2,4 31:4,5
48:15 9:16 16:25 26:17 44:15 11:24 12:22 38:5 40:21 41:5
talks 36:11 timeliness 46:10 25:8 34:24 35:1 29:24
20:5 38:24 telling 26:14 51:3 two-justice 39:23 various 5:9 22:3
testify 16:16,20 45:10,14,25 ultimately 21:17 view 23:10
16:3 Thank 15:24 tortious 24:21 unavailable 26:1 Volenti 51:16
undermines 18:6 W
totally 52:21
34:18 theories 5:9 transaction 8:23 undisputed 50:16 18:17
32:8 worrying 36:1 157(c)(1) 31:1
25:21 33:3 47:8 170 52:9
wrongful 24:18 1789 6:16 40:2
28:22 1846 48:20
36:20 X 1982 44:17
x 1:2,9 1984 44:18
10:9 11:17 2
24:23 2 8:1 11:12
2:01 53:12
23:3,22 2011 1:11
1:15 3:2 25 2:11
24:19
1:6 3:4 27 46:6 50:17
32:19
34:18 51:25 52:3
43:2,5,13
46:8
50:8
46:9 3
33:23 45:23 3 2:4 50:1
49:10 30 41:6
46:17 362 34:17
46:17 379 52:8
14:10,25
40:2 4
26:1
29:11
33:23
12:2
5
49:9
11:22
35:2,11
49:8
8
12:2 35:6 8 27:17
853 53:7
855 32:10
51:1
8:1
23:6,9
31:8 42:6
45:11,16
13:5
48:8
37:1
