IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CHANTELL SACKETT, ET VIR., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 10-1062
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, :
ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, January 9, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DAMIEN M. SCHIFF, ESQ., Sacramento, California; for
Petitioners.
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DAMIEN M. SCHIFF, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DAMIEN M. SCHIFF, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-1062, Sackett v. The
Environmental Protection Agency.
Mr. Schiff.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAMIEN M. SCHIFF
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SCHIFF: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Mike and Chantell Sackett are here today
because 4 years ago the Environmental Protection Agency
issued against them a compliance order charging them
with violations of the Clean Water Act, requiring that
they restore their property to its alleged
predisturbance wetlands condition, and imposing upon
them the threat of tens of thousands of dollars per day
in civil fines if they did not immediately comply with
the order.
But in these 4 years, the Sacketts have
never been offered a meaningful opportunity for judicial
review of the compliance order, an opportunity that they
are guaranteed under the Due Process Clause and the
Administrative Procedure Act.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, there would have
been a daily fine with or without the compliance order,
wouldn't there, if they were indeed in violation of
the -- the Act?
MR. SCHIFF: Justice Scalia, the fine would
only have been attributable to the statute itself. But
with the compliance order in effect, essentially, the
Sacketts are now subject to double liability. They can
be held liable for the statute as well as for actions
inconsistent with the compliance order.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, Mr. Schiff, your
understanding is that each day your clients are subject
to $37,500 of fines for the violation of the statute,
and an additional 37.5 for violation of the compliance
order. Is that the way you understand the penalties
scheme to work?
MR. SCHIFF: Yes -- yes, Justice Kagan. It
is -- it is in fact, I might add, how the EPA
understands the penalty provisions. In its brief at
pages 30 and 31, they essentially concede that the
existence of the compliance order does subject the
Sacketts to liability for both violations of the statute
as well as violations of the compliance order.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the court of appeals
did say that there would be no independent liability
under the -- for violation of the compliance order.
That is, unless there was a violation of the statute,
there would be no penalty for violation of the
compliance order.
MR. SCHIFF: That is correct, Justice
Ginsburg. The court held that as a predicate for any
liability for a compliance order violation, there must
be first a finding of a statutory violation. But that
doesn't change the fact -- even according to the Ninth
Circuit, doesn't change the fact that one can still be
held liable for both, that there is a distinct civil
liability that is traceable only to the compliance
order.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What -- what kind of
review are you seeking? I mean, one thing you could say
is you dispute that this property is subject to the Act.
That might be a question that's reviewable. Do you seek
more than that? Do you seek review at this stage of
anything more than whether the property is subject to
the Act?
MR. SCHIFF: No, Your Honor, we seek review
of that jurisdictional question as it is incorporated
into the compliance order. The compliance order is the
agency action for which we believe the Sacketts have a
right of review under the Administrative Procedure Act.
And our challenge under the APA to the compliance order
is precisely that there is no jurisdiction and,
therefore, there has been no statutory violation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me, what
would be the scope of your holding? How would -- how
would -- if you could write the opinion for the Court on
this part of your case, what would the rule be?
I mean, health inspectors go into
restaurants all the time and say: Unless you fix this,
I'm going to give you a citation. Fire inspectors, the
same thing. And I'm -- I'm wondering how your general
theory or your general principle that you want us to
adopt would fit with that rather routine type of
enforcement?
MR. SCHIFF: Well, Justice Kennedy, we do
not believe that what we are articulating extends as far
as -- as creating a right under the APA for review
because a health inspector has come onto your property.
All we're arguing is that the compliance order is a
final agency action; it has stopped the Sacketts home
building; it has imposed upon them significant civil
liability; and, therefore, they should have a right
under the APA --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So, this is under -- this
is under the APA.
MR. SCHIFF: Correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: This is the APA prong of
your argument.
MR. SCHIFF: Correct, Justice Kennedy. And
-- and we should emphasize that we believe that the
Sacketts' due process rights can be satisfied by
allowing their APA cause of action to go forward.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me there --
there's another distinction, a more significant one,
between routine inspections by fire marshals or -- or
restaurant inspectors, and that is that if you -- if you
disobey their order, you're not subjected to any more
substantial liability than -- than you would have been
subjected to had they not issued the order.
It isn't the order that -- that produces
any -- any new fine, is it?
MR. SCHIFF: That is exactly correct,
Justice Scalia. That's -- that's the principal
distinction between the compliance order in this case
and many of the agency actions that the EPA has set
forth in its brief.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the sanction
imposed each day was not the $37,000, but was $10? If
you don't comply, you know, we can bring an action any
time to enforce this, and you'll be subject to the
statutory maximum, but during the period, the additional
sanction for the -- under the administrative order, or
the compliance order, is $10 a day.
MR. SCHIFF: Mr. Chief Justice, I don't
believe that would change the Court's finality analysis
under Bennett. The -- the fact that the fine is only
$10 as opposed to 37,000 doesn't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it might go to
adequacy of judicial review, the adequacy of the
judicial review that would come when the EPA brings the
enforcement action. I understood your argument to be
that there was a significant extortion impact from the
fact that these were such significant fines -- double,
as you say -- that you could rack up for 5 years. But
if it's only $10 a day, that takes a lot of the wind out
of your sails, doesn't it?
MR. SCHIFF: Well, to begin with,
Mr. Chief Justice, in addition to the independent
liability that the compliance order imposes, there are
other legal effects. Even if the compliance order had
no independent liability, there are other legal effects
that even EPA has conceded to. For example, the
existence of the compliance order makes it materially,
substantially more difficult for the Sacketts to apply
for an after-the-fact permit. A higher --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: To apply for a --
MR. SCHIFF: For an after-the-fact permit.
The -- once an compliance order is issued, an
after-the-fact permit is -- can only be applied for
under the "clearly appropriate" standard in the Corps's
regulations.
But -- but, Mr. Chief Justice, in response
to the question, yes, of course, the amount of the fine
certainly factors into meaningfulness of review. It
factors into coerciveness. But even if there were no
fines, there is -- attributable to the compliance order,
there is still the fact that the Sacketts cannot
independently initiate, cannot trigger, review of the
compliance order.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what do you care?
I mean, you have the fines, don't you? So, why don't
you just argue that? Why do we have to wrestle with the
more difficult situation where there are no fines? It's
conceded that there are fines, isn't it?
MR. SCHIFF: That's correct, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, you know, sufficient
unto the day the evil thereof. We don't have to
consider more difficult cases.
But, as I understand it, you can get review
by applying for an after-the-fact permit from the Corps,
and the only -- the only expense you would incur in
order to get that would be to fill in, as the order
requires you to do, which is something like, what,
$27,500 or so?
MR. SCHIFF: Well, Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that such a hard -- a
hard hit? That's a lot less than, you know, 37.5 a day.
MR. SCHIFF: Well, the difficulty,
Justice Scalia, is that the Sacketts cannot obtain
judicial review of the compliance order within the
context of the permitting process. The compliance order
is the order that has caused the deprivation, that has
imposed upon the Sacketts this double liability.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but their challenge
to the compliance order is simply that they don't have
wetlands. It's the jurisdiction of the EPA. And surely
that can be raised in the -- before the Corps of
Engineers, no?
MR. SCHIFF: That issue might be raised,
Your Honor, but the Sacketts could never get review of
that issue within the context of the compliance order,
which is, of course, the -- the agency action that has
caused their harm. Moreover, there's frankly no
guarantee that the Sacketts could even get into court
through the permitting process, because the Corps might
very well say, well, you know, we don't believe that
there are wetlands on the property; and so, we're not
going to issue you a permit. And, therefore, there is
nothing for the Sacketts to then litigate over in
Federal court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How long does it take to
get one of those after-the-fact permits?
MR. SCHIFF: There -- there is a study, Your
Honor. In terms of averages, I think it's about a year.
But there's nothing in our record that would show
necessarily that the Sacketts are eligible for a
nationwide permit. But more importantly is the fact
that the permitting process doesn't provide review of
the burden of the deprivation that the Sacketts are
enduring right now.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could the -- I don't
understand what exactly you might get from the Army
Corps of Engineers. Obviously, they might give you a
permit, and I take it that cuts off liability; you can
do what you're hoping to do. They might say you don't
get a permit because these are wetlands. Can they do
something in the middle, which is: It's kind of hard
for us to tell; you're on your own?
MR. SCHIFF: Very much so. In addition to
saying we're not going to issue a permit because we
don't believe there are wetlands on the property, they
could also say, under the regulations that even EPA
cites in its brief, that we're not even going to
entertain your after-the-fact permit application while
the compliance order is still outstanding, meaning that
you will likely have to comply, be fully deprived, with
everything the compliance order says, allow EPA onto
your property, requiring significant expensive
restoration of your property to its alleged wetlands
state, before you even have the privilege of applying
for a permit.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Is that what -- is that
what's critical, Mr. Schiff? If that were not true, if
you could go in, even with the compliance order on your
property, and get an adjudication of whether you had
wetlands in the context of an after-the-fact permit
proceeding, would that be sufficient?
MR. SCHIFF: No, it would not, Justice
Kagan, because, again, the fact is that the -- the
compliance order is -- well, the permitting process is
an entirely separate agency action. It's -- it's an
agency action that the Army Corps goes through. The
Sacketts could get no review of the -- of the compliance
order.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, why does that matter?
You're getting review of the question that you care
about, which is the question whether you have wetlands
on your property. And if they said you don't have
wetlands on your property, here's a permit, your
problems are finished.
MR. SCHIFF: Justice Kagan, the difficulty
is that that judicial decision would have no impact and
would not remedy the deprivation that the Sacketts are
currently enduring.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do they issue permits when
there are no wetlands? I thought it was a permit
allowing you to do something on wetlands which otherwise
would -- would not be allowed?
MR. SCHIFF: That's -- that's correct,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, if they decide that
there's -- that it's not a wetland, what do they -- what
do they do? They do nothing? Is that it?
MR. SCHIFF: That's my understanding. The
Corps would simply say there's nothing to permit because
there are no wetlands to fill. But the difficult --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then the compliance
order would automatically be vacated? I mean, doesn't
the compliance order presume that they are wetlands?
Hasn't the agency already made that determination?
MR. SCHIFF: The difficulty,
Justice Kennedy, is that we're talking about two
agencies. And this -- this is really the -- why -- one
additional reason why the permitting process is -- is an
inapt solution to the Sacketts' problem. The Sacketts
have been injured by EPA, by the compliance order. And
now --
JUSTICE ALITO: That seems very strange for
that -- for a party to apply for a permit on -- on the
ground that they don't need a permit at all. If you
apply for a permit, is the Army Corps of Engineers going
to decide whether you -- whether it's wetlands? Isn't
it presupposed if you're applying for a permit that you
-- you need one because there's -- they are wetlands?
MR. SCHIFF: That's -- that's exactly right,
Justice Alito. The -- that underscores how bizarre it
is to force the Sacketts to go through a process.
They've been injured by the EPA, by a compliance order,
and they're told they must initiate an entirely separate
administrative action with an entirely different agency
in order to get indirect, tangential, possible review of
the compliance order that has turned their world upside
down for the last 4 years.
The -- that is why the permitting process
cannot provide meaningful judicial review to the
Sacketts. That's why the Administrative Procedure Act
is the ready-made answer. And, frankly, there's no
indication that Congress intended anything other than
the Administrative Procedure Act to provide an adequate
administrative review for the -- for the adjudication of
compliance orders.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What would the standard
be that -- before -- you have APA review. So, it's just
that -- that the EPA acted reasonably in determining
that you have wetlands?
MR. SCHIFF: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, it would
be your typical arbitrary and capricious standard of
review, substantial evidence based upon the record that
was before the EPA when it made its finding of statutory
violation, which is the statutory predicate for the
issuance of the compliance order.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait, wait. Surely,
you wouldn't go in and -- and try to fight arbitrary or
capricious. It's arbitrary or capricious or otherwise
in violation of the law. Wouldn't you go in and say
that this is in violation of the law?
MR. SCHIFF: No, exactly, Justice Scalia. I
mean, I don't mean to limit ourselves to just that one
standard of review. But it would be a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think that one
standard of review would do you very much good, to tell
you the truth. They've thought about this. Maybe they
got it wrong, but to say it's arbitrary or capricious,
you're going to lose.
MR. SCHIFF: Well, I certainly hope not,
Justice Scalia. But -- but the difficulty is we don't
even know at this point what sort of record the EPA has.
In fact, the law as it stands now is that EPA doesn't
even need probable cause to issue a compliance order.
And --
JUSTICE ALITO: Given -- given the rather
vague nature of the test that's been adopted for
determining whether something is part of the waters of
the United States, wouldn't you have a very difficult
time showing that a determination that it was, was
arbitrary and capricious?
MR. SCHIFF: There's no question,
Justice Alito, that there -- there -- yes, it would be a
difficult time. But that -- just because the Sacketts
might have an uphill battle I don't believe is any
reason to say that they should have no opportunity. I
mean, as it stands now, they've been told you cannot
build your home, you must convert your property into
wetlands, and you are being charged $37,500 per day if
you don't immediately comply. And yet, you get no day
in court?
JUSTICE KAGAN: And, Mr. Schiff, is the way
you see this operating that you bring an action
contesting on the basis of the arbitrary and capricious
clause or -- or otherwise not in accordance with law?
If -- if then the court rules against you but you
continue to fail to comply, does the EPA then have to
bring a separate enforcement action?
MR. SCHIFF: Yes. The only way EPA can
actually take money away from the Sacketts is by filing
a civil action, but that would be true whether or not
the Sacketts bring an APA cause of action.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you -- would
collateral estoppel apply to you because of the judicial
determination on the compliance order in the subsequent
enforcement action? In other words, you lose. You seek
APA review, and the court says, you know, we think it's
a wetland. And then the EPA brings an enforcement
action. They have to establish it's a wetland. Don't
they just attach a copy of the decision?
MR. SCHIFF: Well, not necessarily,
Mr. Chief Justice, because, for one, the standard of
review would be different. It would be -- under the
APA, it would be the traditional deference afforded to
agency action.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, not -- I guess
I'm back to Justice Scalia's question. This -- it
struck me as a purely legal, jurisdictional issue: Are
these wetlands or not? And I don't know why you would
give deference to the agency's determination on a legal
jurisdictional issue like that.
MR. SCHIFF: No, you're correct,
Mr. Chief Justice. I mean more in terms of the
substantial evidence standard that usually supports
agency action under the APA. But -- but certainly here
the Sacketts also contend, regardless of questions of --
of Rapanos and connection to navigable waters, the
Sacketts contend that there are no wetlands at all on
this property, and that ultimately is -- is, of course,
a factual question that would be informed by what's in
the record.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But to go back to the Chief
Justice's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If they're wrong about
that, if there is a finding in the APA process that
these are wetlands, is that the end of it? Or within
that, the context of that review, can you say, well,
they are wetlands, but only to a minor extent, and these
conditions were onerous and -- and far more than
necessary to protect the wetlands? Can you argue that
in the APA review? Or is it just up or down: Wetlands,
you lose; not wetlands, you win. That's it?
MR. SCHIFF: No. I mean -- Justice Kennedy,
we would argue that, even if there are wetlands on the
property, which we do not believe there are, that --
that the compliance order would still be invalidated if
there were not a significant nexus between the -- the
alleged wetlands on the property and some navigable
water in the vicinity. But -- but --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Who would review that
and where? Going back to Justice Kagan's question of --
let's assume you went through an APA process, and they
found it was wetlands and that the compliance terms
were -- had a substantial nexus. What happens when you
go into an enforcement action?
MR. SCHIFF: Well, at that point, then both
sides get to create a new record, consistent with what
the Ninth Circuit held. That --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, the Chief Justice's
suggestion that there would be preclusion you do not
agree with?
MR. SCHIFF: No. In addition to the fact
that the standards of review would be different,
preponderance of the evidence in a civil action as
opposed to substantial evidence in the APA, it would
also be the fact that -- that, even as the Ninth Circuit
understood a civil action, when it goes forward, both
sides have an opportunity to create a new record or
to -- to establish by a preponderance of the evidence
the elements of -- of the offense.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, does anything get
estoppel?
MR. SCHIFF: I'm sorry, Justice --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does anything get
estoppel? Assuming it's not a legal question, would the
factual findings that there's a substantial nexus
between the remedy ordered and the violation -- would
that get estoppel?
MR. SCHIFF: It -- it would be difficult to
imagine a case of estoppel, because, again, in the APA
context, it's just based upon the record at the time the
compliance order is issued. And so, the records are
always going to be different, because the civil action
will build upon that administrative record. And then,
secondly, in terms of the differing standards of review,
I suppose one could find a -- a purely factual question
perhaps that -- where the standards of review wouldn't
matter, or a purely legal question, but --
JUSTICE SCALIA: This wouldn't be a problem
if -- if this procedure were not employed, if there were
not this -- this prior compliance order that issues
before actual suit by the -- by EPA to hold you liable
for violating the Act. Then you'd just have one -- one
suit, and the -- the issue would be clear as to what
burden the agency has to sustain. But it's -- it's
really the dual nature of this process that creates the
difficulty, isn't it?
MR. SCHIFF: Yes, Justice Scalia, to some
extent it is, of course, the process that -- that
Congress --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's in the statute.
The agency didn't make that up, right? The statute
provides for compliance orders, and it calls them
"compliance orders," doesn't it?
MR. SCHIFF: It -- it does indeed. And so,
even if the Sacketts on remand don't get their ideal
mode of judicial review, something is frankly better
than nothing. They have been told for 4 years they
cannot build their home. They have been threatened with
ruinous civil penalties. And, to date, they have had no
opportunity for their day in court.
The -- the Sacketts cannot trigger an
enforcement action. I mean, perhaps if Congress had
written the statute differently to allow for some sort
of judicial review that the Sacketts could -- could
initiate for a compliance order, that might -- that
might answer, Justice Scalia, your concerns. But that
is not the statute we have. We have a statute where
Congress has said EPA can issue a compliance order, and
we have in combination with that the presumption in
favor of judicial review of final agency action; we have
the avoidance canon; all that point to allowing for the
Sacketts to get their day in court and at the same time
to satisfy and to vindicate Congress's intent.
Congress wanted EPA to be able to issue
these -- these compliance orders. Congress gave
significant statutory penalties for violating these
compliance orders. But at the same time, there has to
be balance. One cannot tell landowners --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, you know, you're
-- you're not going to be out of the woods. Even if you
get this APA review, okay, some of the factual questions
that go to whether these are wetlands or not are going
to be decided giving substantial deference to the
agency's determination of the facts, right?
MR. SCHIFF: No, that is correct,
Justice Scalia. And that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And so, even if you lose on
that, you might still think you can win when the EPA
finally brings a -- a civil action seeking to impose a
penalty, where the burden will be on the EPA without --
without any deference to its factfinding. So, you still
won't know where you are, will you?
MR. SCHIFF: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You've lost one, but you
may win the other. You'll have to roll the dice.
MR. SCHIFF: Well, respectfully,
Justice Scalia, it's more than rolling the dice. It's
subjecting the -- the Sacketts to an interminable
Damoclean sword, if -- if the only way they can get
review is simply waiting, well, when will EPA let the
sword drop and bring a civil action to enforce this
compliance order that who knows how old it is?
With EPA's theory of continuing violation,
the statute of limitations never even runs. And so, you
have the Sacketts who are forever subject to this cloud
over themselves, cloud over their title. They can't get
anyone to come onto their property to build their home.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there no limitation on
the compliance order? It just -- it can be there
forever until the EPA decides to bring an enforcement
action?
MR. SCHIFF: As -- Justice Ginsburg, as EPA
interprets the -- the statute of limitations for
collecting civil penalties, so long as the "discharge,"
quote, unquote, remains in place, it's considered a
continuing violation. And so, the statute of
limitations never even begins to run. And so, Sacketts
might -- might build their home and, 10 years down the
road, be surprised that here comes EPA with its civil
action.
Oh, now the Sacketts get judicial review but
at a significant cost. They can't even enjoy the home
that they might build because there is always this cloud
hanging over them, a cloud that can be dispelled if they
can simply have an opportunity, which, Justice Scalia,
may not be the best opportunity, but something is better
than nothing, an APA cause of action to review the EPA's
assertion of its authority over their property.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I asked you earlier, in
this APA review, would there be any further question
after the determination is it wetlands, is it not? And
you had said no, that's -- that would be it. But you
answered another question that would suggest it may be
wetlands, but it shouldn't -- there should be -- you
should be allowed to build your home anyway.
MR. SCHIFF: Allow me to clarify, Justice
Ginsburg. In this APA cause of action, the Sacketts
challenge the -- the jurisdictional predicate, and that
is really a two-part determination. One is, are there
wetlands on the property? And, two, are those wetlands
sufficiently connected to navigable waters to justify
Federal regulation? And both of those fit into our
first claim for relief, our APA cause of action.
And so, in this case, that is what our APA
cause of action on remand would look like. We would say
let's look at the -- at the record that EPA has
assembled at the time it issued the compliance order,
and does that record support the finding of statutory
violation?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're conceding that
the compliance order, assuming there is a violation, is
all right? You're not challenging any of the terms of
the compliance order other than the finding of a
violation?
MR. SCHIFF: That -- that is correct,
Justice Sotomayor. Yes, that is correct. That is all
that we are challenging.
Mr. Chief Justice, if I may reserve the
balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Stewart.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I'd like to begin with the question of
double penalties because I think it helps to clarify
exactly what the compliance order does and does not do
in terms of altering the legal regime to which the
Sacketts are subject.
The compliance order is intended to specify
the violation that EPA believes to have occurred and the
measures that EPA believes are necessary in order to
achieve prospective compliance. And the statute does
provide separately for penalties for violating the
statute and penalties for violating the compliance
order.
And, as an exercise of our duty of candor to
the Court, we acknowledged in our brief that the
Government reads the statute to allow the legal
possibility of double penalties; that is, up to 37,500
per day for violating the statute, up to 37,500 per day
for violating the compliance order. I think that's
really a theoretical rather than a practical --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why? You say "practical."
The order itself says that. It says you don't do it,
you're going to get penalized up to 32.5, which is now
37.
MR. STEWART: Well, that language in the
order would have been accurate even if the statute
didn't authorize penalties for violating the -- the
order itself. That is, even if the statute authorized
penalties only for violating the Act, it would have been
accurate for EPA to say we believe this is what is
necessary to achieve compliance, and if you don't do it,
you will potentially be subject to these civil
penalties; namely, civil penalties for violating the
statute.
But the reason I say that it's -- the double
penalties as a theoretical possible -- let me say that
again. If there were no provision for penalties for
violating the compliance order, only penalties for
violating the statute, EPA could accurately have said we
believe that the following steps are necessary in order
to achieve prospective compliance with the Act, and if
you don't do these things, you will be subject to the
following penalties because you will then be in
violation of the Act and you will be subject to the
penalties --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Stewart --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't follow -- I
didn't follow that. What is your response to the
assertion that you're subject to double penalties?
MR. STEWART: It is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One, for violating
the Act; two, for violating the compliance order.
MR. STEWART: The first is it is a legal
possibility. We're not aware of any case in which a
district court has ever imposed penalties of greater
than the 37,000 --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you don't
doubt that -- you don't doubt that they have the
authority to do that?
MR. STEWART: They have the authority to do
that. I guess the other thing I would say is the
possibility that penalties would be increased doesn't
distinguish this scheme from the sort of regime that
Justice Kennedy referred to or the sorts of regimes that
we've discussed in our brief. That is, it's very common
for law enforcement agencies of all sorts to give
warnings to regulated parties: We think you're
violating the statute.
JUSTICE ALITO: Has the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, Mr. Stewart,
given --
JUSTICE ALITO: Has the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: Has the United States
adopted a rule or announced a policy that it will never
seek anything more than the penalty for the underlying
violation? It will not seek an additional penalty for
violation of the compliance order?
MR. STEWART: We have not adopted a policy
to that effect.
And I guess what I -- I do want to
clarify --
JUSTICE ALITO: So, it's more than
theoretical, then. I don't really understand what
you're saying. You're saying that we may ask for more,
but it's unlikely courts will actually provide for more.
MR. STEWART: I guess the two -- I don't
know that we have ever asked for more than the 37,500
per day. Now, I think it is often the case what -- that
what district courts will do is, within the 37,500
statutory maximum, they will say we are imposing a
greater penalty for the period after the compliance
order was issued because it shows greater culpability to
continue with the violation after you've been warned.
But that's not a feature of the compliance
order that distinguishes it from all manner of other
agency warnings.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, your order could have
read, it could have read -- "Notice is hereby given that
violation of or failure to comply with the foregoing
Order" -- cap "O" -- "may subject Respondents to, one,
civil penalties" of up to 32.5 -- now 37.5 per day.
That's how it reads. It could have read: Violation of
or failure to comply with the Environmental Protection
Act may subject Respondents to civil penalties.
It's quite specific that it is violation of
-- failure to comply with the foregoing order, which
includes not letting -- filling in immediately and so
forth. It says what it says. It's the violation of the
order that -- that the additional penalties are attached
to.
MR. STEWART: And, again, we don't dispute
that violating the order could as a realistic matter
cause the penalties to be greater within the statutory
maximum. But, as I was saying, in many situations,
agencies give warnings to regulated parties: If you
keep doing this, you may be subject to penalties.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It could -- it could as a
theoretical matter double the penalties.
MR. STEWART: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're just saying, as a
practical matter, it doesn't often do that.
MR. STEWART: As a practical matter, we are
not aware of any case in which the penalties imposed
have been greater than the per-day statutory maximum for
the violation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not going to bet my
house on that.
MR. STEWART: It -- in terms -- I think,
first of all, we would say that until we floated the
theoretical possibility in our opening brief, the
Sacketts seemed to be entirely unaware of it. That is,
all of the Sacketts' calculations as to the penalties to
which they would be exposed if they continued to engage
in their present conduct were premised on the idea that
37,500 was the statutory maximum. But the main point I
want to --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Stewart, I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: They were getting a good
night's sleep? But they are getting a good night's
sleep before they read your brief?
(Laughter.)
MR. STEWART: I don't think -- I guess
that's really my point, that the one thing the Sacketts
have never argued is, if it were just the 37,500 per day
for violating the statute, we would be willing to build
our house and take our chances, but once you double
that, we're not willing to take the risk any longer,
that the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, and that's not
their argument today, either.
MR. STEWART: Right.
The one point before I move on that I do
want to make clear is, in a wide variety of contexts,
agencies will issue warnings to regulated parties that
they are believed to be in violation of a statute. And
it is common under schemes where the amount of the
sanction is up to the judge's discretion that penalties
will -- may be greater for conduct that occurs after the
person has been warned --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, but those
situations are slightly different because the Act
doesn't specify any specific remedies that apply to any
specific property. It just says you violate the Act by
filling in wetlands. It doesn't say that you violate
the Act by not removing the fill and not planting trees
and not doing this or doing that. What it says is you
violate the Act if you don't comply with the compliance
order that tells you to do those things. So, it's a
very theoretically different violation that's going on.
One is in the affirmative act prohibited by
the statute; that's the violation of the statute. And
the other is the violation of the remedial steps that
the compliance order is the only thing that has set
forth.
MR. STEWART: I don't think that's correct,
Your Honor. First, as to of the requirement in earlier
versions of the compliance order that herbaceous plants
be planted, et cetera, those were removed from the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But those are not in the
statute. They're permitted by the statute, but they're
not set forth as requirements under the statute.
MR. STEWART: EPA's view of the statute is
that -- without regard to the issuance of a compliance
order, once fill material is deposited in waters of the
United States, EPA's view of the penalty provisions
would be that the violation continues for as long as the
fill remains in the wetlands.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That has nothing to do
with the fact that the Act doesn't specifically tell you
to remove it.
MR. STEWART: The Act doesn't
specifically -- and the Act doesn't specifically tell
the person to remove it, but that's our interpretation
of the statute. And it's either right or wrong. That
is, if we're wrong about that, if the only days on which
penalties can be assessed for violating the statute
itself are days on which fill was actually discharged,
then the provisions of the compliance order that
directed the Sacketts to remove the fill and restore the
property would be beyond the scope of a proper
compliance order under 13 --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you
referred a couple of times to the EPA's view of the
statute. I take it that's your view as well?
MR. STEWART: That's our view as well. I'm
just saying that hasn't been definitively resolved by
this Court. But the position that we've taken, again,
with respect to the statute itself is that in computing
the daily penalties and asking how many days of
violation were there, the district court should take
into account not just the days on which fill was
actually deposited but the days on which fill remained
in the wetlands.
And Petitioners have specifically expressed
agreement this morning with that view of the statute. I
think the view of the Petitioners' amici is to the same
effect, because in many of the amicus briefs there are
calculations of the very large penalties to which people
could be subject if they didn't adhere to compliance
orders, and they're all premised on the idea that every
day fill remains in the wetlands --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about those provisions
of the original order? I must say I was not edified by
the fact that, when litigation was threatened or
actually brought, the EPA modified its order: Oh, you
don't have to plant the trees.
Does it do this as a matter of practice,
issue compliance orders that go well beyond what the --
what the EPA would -- would demand?
MR. STEWART: I don't know about well
beyond. I think the -- every version of the compliance
order said to the Sacketts if you think that there are
things here -- in here that are wrong or compliance
measures that you regard as infeasible, you're welcome
to tell us. And I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's very nice.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's very nice, when
you've received something called a compliance order,
which says you'll -- you're subject to penalties of 32.5
for every day of violation.
MR. STEWART: I think the portion of the
order dealing with the planting of plants, which is the
primary one that was eliminated in the final iteration
of the order, is really removed from what the Sacketts
have been complaining about. That is, the Sacketts --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it shows the
high-handedness of the agency, it seems to me, putting
in there stuff that is simply not required by the EPA.
MR. STEWART: Well, I think in the main what
every version of the compliance order required was
appropriate if you accept the initial determination that
there was a violation, that these were waters of the
United States.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What would you --
what would you do, Mr. Stewart, if you received this
compliance order? You don't think your -- your property
has wetlands on it, and you get this compliance order
from the EPA. What would you do?
MR. STEWART: Well, as we know from
documents that have -- were not in the record of the
case, but have been provided to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If they weren't in
the record, I don't want to hear about them. You
appreciate that rule, that we don't consider things that
aren't in the record.
You get a compliance order. You don't think
your property has wetlands. What do you do?
MR. STEWART: I think, at that stage, your
options would be limited. You could apply for an after-
the-fact permit --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You wouldn't do
that, right? You know you'll never get an
after-the-fact permit if the EPA has sent you a
compliance order saying you've got wetlands.
MR. STEWART: Or you could simply comply
with the compliance order at the cost of, it's been
estimated, $27,000. Once the compliance order has been
resolved, there would be no further impediment --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's what you
would do? You would say: I don't think there are
wetlands on my property, but EPA does. So, I'm going to
take out all the fill; I'm going to plant herbaceous
trees or whatever it is; and I'll worry about whether to
-- that way, I'll just do what the government tells me I
should do.
MR. STEWART: It may be that the Sacketts at
that point were in an unattractive position. But I
think in determining whether it's an unfair position or
how the statutory scheme is supposed to operate, we
ought to look not just at the opportunities that were
available to them at that moment but the opportunities
that they had forgone already.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I ask you --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, Mr. Stewart, if you --
if you related the facts of this case as they come to us
to an ordinary homeowner, don't you think most ordinary
homeowners would say this kind of thing can't happen in
the United States? You don't -- you buy property to
build a house. You think maybe there's a little
drainage problem in part of your lot. So, you start to
build the house, and then you get an order from the EPA
which says: You have filled in wetlands; so, you can't
build your house. Remove the fill, put in all kinds of
plants, and now you have to let us on your premises
whenever we want to. You have to turn over to us all
sorts of documents, and for every day that you don't do
all this, you're accumulating a potential fine of
$75,000. And, by the way, there's no way you can go to
court to challenge our determination that this is a
wetlands until such time as we choose to sue you.
MR. STEWART: Well, the first thing I would
say is, as a matter of standard EPA practice, the
compliance order would not be the first communication
from the agency that would alert the landowner to the
belief that there was a violation. The record in this
case does not make clear whether that agency practice
was followed in this case, but EPA's typical practice is
to alert landowners through prior communications that a
violation is existing --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, so what? Somebody
from the EPA says we think that your backyard is a
wetlands; so, don't build. So, what do we -- what does
the homeowner do, having bought that property?
MR. STEWART: Well, once that --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, all right, I'm just
going to put it aside as a nature preserve.
MR. STEWART: At the time that that sort of
letter is issued, there's no compliance order, and
there's no impediment to an after-the-fact permit. That
is, at that point, the landowner could ask for a permit
and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In other words, what
the landowner is supposed to do -- the agency says,
because you didn't apply for a permit, you're in trouble
because you didn't give us a chance to say whether we
were going to take away your constitutional rights or
not; so, we can do it.
MR. STEWART: Well, the first two things I
would -- the first thing I would say is it's not simply
a hypothetical means of challenging CWA coverage to seek
a permit. That is, in both SWANCC, Solid Waste Agency
of Northern Cook County, and Carabell, which was one of
the two companion cases that this Court adjudicated in
Rapanos, that was the way that the suit got into Federal
court.
The landowners applied for permits, they
were denied, they sought judicial review of the permit
denials and argued, inter alia, that there was no need
for a permit because the relevant tracts were not waters
of the United States.
The second thing I would say is it's often
the case that judicial review is contingent upon
complying with some sort of deadline or some sort of
prerequisite, and once a person has missed the deadline,
that person may as a practical matter be in the same
position as if judicial review had not been made
available at all.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But I'm --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose the Corps of
Engineers agrees that it's not a wetland, and its basis
for refusing to issue the permit is we don't give a
permit; you don't need a permit.
MR. STEWART: It would issue a letter either
to the effect that there was no wetland or that it was a
wetland that was not covered by --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that binding on --
MR. STEWART: Yes, we --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the Environmental
Protection Agency?
MR. STEWART: Yes, we would --
JUSTICE BREYER: How can they bring an
action? I'd like some clarification here. The Corps's
regs say the Corps will accept an after-the-fact permit.
I mean, one after -- if they applied tomorrow, the day
after getting this order, you'd run up against the reg,
which says we won't give you any after the fact -- we
won't even consider this matter, until any required
initial corrective measures are made.
And then, just to be safe, they say that no
permit application will be accepted unless the Corps
determines that concurrent processing of an
after-the-fact permit application is clearly
appropriate. "Clearly."
So, I looked at those two things and said,
of course, you can't apply to the Corps of Engineers;
they're not going to accept it unless you have a very
unusual case. So, I expect you to tell me why I'm wrong
about that, if I am, or how many after-the-fact permit
applications has the Corps of Engineers accepted. Maybe
there are a lot.
MR. STEWART: It's not precluded, but I
would agree with you: It's very unlikely that without
complying with the order --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. All right. I agree.
Then, if we agree, then look, for 75 years the courts
have interpreted statutes with an eye towards permitting
judicial review, not the opposite.
MR. STEWART: But --
JUSTICE BREYER: And yet -- so, here you're
saying this statute that says nothing about it precludes
review, and then the second thing you say is that this
isn't final. So, I read the order. It looks like about
as final a thing as I've ever seen. So, tell me why I'm
wrong on those two points.
MR. STEWART: Well, we're not arguing that
the statute precludes all judicial review. That is, the
question whether the Clean Water Act applied to this
tract could have been teed up for a court in either of
two ways.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. If it doesn't --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you are arguing --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- you're on the final
part.
JUSTICE KAGAN: You are arguing that the
presumption of reviewability does not apply.
MR. STEWART: To this particular order.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And that seems a very
strange position. Why would the presumption of
reviewability not apply?
MR. STEWART: I think first because the
order doesn't express the final -- the agency's final
view both in the sense that it invites the Sacketts to
provide further comment --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they asked -- they
asked for a hearing. Didn't they ask EPA for a hearing
on whether their lands fell within the statute? They
did ask for a hearing, and the EPA said no.
MR. STEWART: EPA said no to a formal
hearing, but I think that would be characteristic agency
practice; that is, when the agency is exercising what is
essentially its prosecutorial function, that is, warning
regulated parties we may do -- we may sue you if you
don't do the following things. It would be quite common
for enforcement personnel to entertain informal
overtures from the regulated party or his legal
representative, but I think it would be extraordinary,
for instance, for a U.S. Attorney's Office to grant a
formal hearing to a potential criminal defendant in
order to discuss the -- in order to resolve the question
criminal charges should be brought. But --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's -- there's one
thing I do want you to tell us is -- EPA has three
choices. It can go to a compliance order; it can issue
an administrative -- trigger an administrative penalty
when -- where there would be APA review; or it can bring
an enforcement action. How does the agency decide which
of those three routes it's going to take in a given
case?
MR. STEWART: I think the -- the agency's
normal practice would be to issue an administrative
compliance order before initiating judicial proceedings.
That is, the statute doesn't require it, but the EPA
ordinarily would not commence a lawsuit without first
giving the regulated party one final opportunity to come
into compliance.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what about this
administrative order that -- the administrative order
internally within EPA subject to judicial review? When
does it use that as opposed to a compliance order?
MR. STEWART: It could use that. It would
typically use that for violations that it perceived to
be less serious. The statutory cap on penalties is much
lower than the cap in the judicial enforcement actions.
I think it would probably be the case that it would
issue an administrative compliance order in those
situations as well.
Now, one of the things that the
administrative -- the cover letter to the administrative
compliance order does say is, even if you comply, you
are still not immune from the possibility of enforcement
proceedings with respect to past violations. And I
think that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can -- can the EPA issue a
warning instead of using this -- this order procedure?
Compliance order procedure?
MR. STEWART: Oh, absolutely. I mean, there
is no express statutory authorization for that, but I
think most agencies regard it as within their ordinary
authority to enforce the statute to send less formal
communication.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And doesn't most of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, they could just -- just
dispense with this compliance order and tell the
Sacketts, in our view, this is a warning; we believe
you're in violation of the Act; and you'll be subject
to -- you are subject to penalties of 37.5 per day for
that violation; and to remedy the violation, in our
judgment, you have to fill in and you have to plant, you
know, pine trees on the lot. It could do that?
MR. STEWART: They could use the letter for
that mechanism. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And there would be no
review of that.
MR. STEWART: We would certainly argue there
would be no review of that. And if the Court said that
there was review of the administrative compliance order
based on features that were distinct to the order,
namely, the fact that it is couched as an order, the
fact that penalties can be imposed for violation of the
order itself, an opinion along those lines wouldn't
suggest that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there anything you've
got by -- I mean, I'm -- you've got me now into the
area; we're applying the APA; and the question is Abbott
Labs and is it final? Well, here there doesn't seem
anything more for the agency to do, and here the -- the
person whom the order is directed against is being hurt
a lot.
So, the only thing I -- left in my mind here
is the order itself does say come in and talk to us
about this. Which may suggest it isn't final. So, do
you have any information on that point? That is, have
you looked up or has the EPA told you that really when
we issue these things, in fact people come in and we
modify them X percent of the time?
MR. STEWART: We don't have statistics on
that. Now --
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you have any impression
that you could tell us?
MR. STEWART: I -- I would have the
impression that it's -- in a nontrivial number of cases,
the landowner does approach EPA. Now, it's--
JUSTICE BREYER: Do they --
MR. STEWART: Well, I will -- I will say
that the statistics I do have are that only a very small
percentage, you know, a rough estimate somewhere on the
order of 3 percent of wetlands-related compliance orders
under the Clean Water Act ultimately culminate in
lawsuits for enforcement.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Stewart, you --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you --
MR. STEWART: That would -- that would
encompass both the cases in which the landowners came in
and talked to EPA and those in which they just complied.
I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Stewart, you suggested
that -- that some communication occurs before this
compliance order. And my guess would be that most of
the back and forth between the agency and the person
does happen before the compliance order rather than
after.
And the notion that the person can come in
after the compliance order and say you were wrong --
well, they can, but they can do that with respect to any
administrative action. So, am I wrong about that? That
really the back and forth here takes place before the
compliance order issues rather than after?
MR. STEWART: I mean, I think you're right
as a matter of typical agency practice that there would
be an invitation well before the compliance order was
issued to come in and give your side of the story. And
you're probably right that, if we got to the point where
a compliance order was issued, then the likelihood that
further communications would sway the agency
substantially might be reduced.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Stewart --
MR. STEWART: So, I would think your point
there --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Finish your
answer, and then --
MR. STEWART: So, yes, I would agree with
that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You were cut-off. You
were saying if we were troubled by the additional
penalties, and you were going to suggest something. If
we were troubled by that aspect of the order alone, and
you haven't dealt with the permit issue after the fact,
what would be your approach to the case then?
MR. STEWART: Well, I guess the two things,
one of which may be more troubling rather than less
troubling, is to say that if you're troubled by this,
then there are a lot of other things that might be
troubling as well because it's often the case that
warnings are issued to regulated parties, and it's often
the case that if the regulated party continues with the
conduct after receiving the warning, the penalties may
be enhanced.
JUSTICE BREYER: This is not a warning. I
mean, really all you have to do is look at it. I was
quite moved by the fact when I looked at it, it didn't
say a warning. It said this is an order. It looks
extremely formal. I even overstated in your favor the
question of negotiating because it doesn't say
negotiating about changing the order; it says
negotiating about amending the order. And -- so, this
is not just a warning, is it?
MR. STEWART: It is not -- it is phrased as
an order, but the only thing that EPA is authorized to
do under section 1319(a)(3) is to order people to do
what they were already legally complied -- required to
do; that is, order them to comply with their legal
obligations.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can't you usually obtain a
declaratory judgment if prosecution is threatened and
you think that there is no basis for it, and you
can't -- you're not -- you're not compelled to just
stand there and wait for the prosecutor to -- to drop
the hammer? Can't you normally bring a declaratory
judgment action saying there's no basis for prosecution?
MR. STEWART: There is no -- the Court has
held that there is no constitutional bar to that and
that a declaratory judgment remedy can be made available
in that circumstance. But, again, I think it would
cause a huge upheaval in the practices of many agencies
to say that declaratory relief is --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but the --
MR. STEWART: -- typically available when
the agency issues an informal warning.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, in -- maybe with an
informal warning, but when you have something as formal
as this which shows that the agency does intend to
prosecute, why wouldn't you be able to bring a
declaratory judgment action?
MR. STEWART: Again, I don't think that
there would be any value to agencies or to regulated
parties to encourage the agencies to hedge their bets or
to say less than what they really mean. That is --
JUSTICE BREYER: More of a -- that's what
I'm trying to get you to talk about just for one minute.
I mean, you're talking about a huge upheaval. My honest
impression is that it is the Government here that is
fighting 75 years of practice --
MR. STEWART: Well, to speak --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- because -- because the
issue is the Abbott Labs issue of finality.
MR. STEWART: The --
JUSTICE BREYER: And, of course, a warning
isn't reviewable. But this seems to meet the test where
that fails. Now, please correct me if I'm wrong about
the agency practice. I can't find support for you --
MR. STEWART: The Court in Abbott Labs
emphasized that that was an industry-wide regulation
having the force of law and that the basis for
challenging it was a purely legal ground. And one of
the reasons that we think judicial review of the
administrative compliance order within this scheme would
make no sense, would be out of keeping with the rest of
the statutory regime, is that it wouldn't solve the
problem.
As the discussion in the first part of the
argument made clear, Petitioners share our view that the
administrative compliance order would be subject to
review if it's reviewable under a deferential standard.
And if the Court held that the order was not arbitrary
and capricious, that still wouldn't eliminate the
possibility that if we pursued an enforcement action --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in concrete, Mr.
Stewart --
MR. STEWART: -- the Petitioners could argue
that they weren't actually in violation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- how would it work?
You say it's a lesser standard under the APA. But the
question is, is this wetlands or is it not?
MR. STEWART: It's more than just is it
wetlands. It's are these wetlands that have the
requisite connection to traditional navigable waters?
And that can turn in part on factual and scientific
judgments, and those are --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But as far -- as far as
the EPA is concerned, they're finished with that
question. This is not something that, well, we might
look at it again tomorrow based on new evidence. The
determination that these are qualifying wetlands -- that
has been made.
MR. STEWART: I think they have reached that
conclusion for now. I don't think it would be accurate
to say that we have done all the research we would want
to do if we were going to be required to prove up our
case in court. And that's really the second half of
the -- the problem, that if Petitioners' claim were
reviewable and a court held EPA didn't do sufficient
investigation based on the record before it at the time,
there was no sound basis --
JUSTICE ALITO: That makes the EPA's conduct
here even more outrageous: We -- we think now that this
is wetlands that are -- that qualify; so, we're going to
hit you with this compliance order, but, you know, when
we look into it more thoroughly in the future, we might
change our mind.
MR. STEWART: I would assume that any
prosecutor, any enforcement person, would want to be
better prepared when a case actually went to trial than
when he was communicating to the potential defendant
that there's a real likelihood that we would sue you.
But the other --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you're required to
make a finding that there's a violation. You're not
suggesting that the government is going to act
willy-nilly and it's not going to act on sufficient
evidence in -- in sending a letter that says we find you
are violating the Act.
MR. STEWART: Obviously, we would feel that
we had sufficient evidence for doing that. But the
second part of the point that I was going to make is,
even if a court found that we didn't have sufficient
evidence before us at the time the administrative
compliance order was issued and that the order was
therefore arbitrary and capricious, that wouldn't
provide the Sacketts the protection that they needed,
because that wouldn't foreclose EPA from --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's --
that's right. In other words, you hope you have --
you've looked at it. You hope you have a sufficient
basis. And because of the administrative compliance
order, you're really never going to be put to the test
because most landowners aren't going to say, I'm going
to risk the $37,000 a day. All EPA has to do is make
whatever finding it wants and realize that in 99 percent
of the cases, it's never going to be put to the test.
MR. STEWART: I -- I guess the only point I
would make is, if Petitioners had wanted a judicial
resolution of the coverage question without subjecting
themselves to potential penalties, they could have filed
a permit application before discharging. They could
have gotten review there. All we're saying is they
can't discharge fill, wait to see whether EPA notices,
and then insist upon immediate judicial review if EPA
notices and objects.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Schiff, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAMIEN M. SCHIFF
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SCHIFF: Mr. Chief Justice, unless the
Court has any additional questions --
JUSTICE BREYER: I do, actually, because I
see their point better than I did. This, I think, is
what they're worried about: They're worried that when
you get judicial review of this kind of order, the court
doesn't refer on factfinding that isn't made on a
record. The substantial evidence test applies to
factfinding made on a record, or 556/557. And so,
they'll have a hard time -- or a harder time -- in each
of these cases subjecting it to judicial factfinding.
And they think that the purpose of this, the
purpose of this procedure given to them by statute was
to call it -- the shots in favor of them, because there
might be thousands of these things, and they can't
prepare all that formal thing. Now, I -- I see that as
a -- as a -- now I understand their concern. I'm not
saying they're right. I understand their concern.
So, if you want to comment, is there some
way to accommodate their concern that also accommodates
judicial review? Or are we just in a kind of -- they're
in a Hobson's choice, in a sense.
MR. SCHIFF: Well, Justice Breyer, the
difficulty is essentially of EPA's own creation. I
don't understand why -- why EPA would want the power to
issue compliance orders that, as the Court has
recognized, are -- are tremendously coercive. And not
have --
JUSTICE BREYER: They want the power because
they have thousands of these things. They investigate
it, and they find the facts. They think it's
sufficient, but judicial factfinding is carried out
before a judge who doesn't have their experience, et
cetera, and, therefore, there is a risk of incorrect
decisionmaking, at least too -- under the statute, it
would be too pro-homeowner rather too pro-environment.
That's why it's more of a dilemma than I thought.
MR. SCHIFF: I think, Justice Breyer, the --
the fear of it being too pro-homeowner is in fact
protected by the fact of the APA standard of review.
We're not talking about -- about the agency being forced
to sort of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but maybe the agency
is only entitled to deference when in fact it has made a
record. When it hasn't made a record, maybe there's no
reason to give it deference.
MR. SCHIFF: You're correct, Justice Scalia.
If there is no record, certainly there's by necessity no
substantial evidence, and in that case, the compliance
order would be --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, they might -- the
might change their -- their system here, if you -- if
you win this, and provide for various kinds of pre-order
procedure or post-order procedure where they'd be open
to change. I see a number of possibilities. I can see
their dilemma.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But they'll just issue
warnings, is what they'll do.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there cases in the
courts of appeals or the district courts where
landowners, having received these notices or compliance
orders, have said that there's a taking of the property,
inverse condemnation?
MR. SCHIFF: I'm not aware of that, Your
Honor, but -- Justice Kennedy, but, as this Court I
believe held in Riverside Bayview, a takings claim under
the Clean Water Act is not considered ripe until a
permit application has been -- has been attempted.
Now, if a compliance order is issued, then
the permit application might be off the table. And, in
fact, one could see that a compliance order might
potentially have a total taking effect in this case.
But certainly, at this point, we are willing
to let EPA have the power. Yes, let EPA administer the
Act and issue compliance orders, but let's also give
landowners a fair shake, too. Let them have their day
in court to contest what the agency has done.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Schiff, I take it -- the
Government agrees that there's not much of a chance that
you could get an after-the-fact permit, but its view is
you should have gotten a before-the-fact permit. And
putting aside the weirdness which Justice Alito points
out of making you go get a permit for something you
don't think you need a permit for -- putting that aside,
couldn't you have gotten the legal determination that
you wanted through that process?
MR. SCHIFF: We -- Justice Kagan, we don't
deny that by applying for a permit and having the Corps
make a decision on the permit that that's one way to get
into court. But the difficulty for the Sacketts and
for, you know, the thousands of folks in this country
who are recipients of compliance orders is that that's
small or no solace once EPA has already acted, you know,
once EPA has made the finding of violation and then
threatens these ruinous penalties on -- on landowners.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I think what EPA is
saying is, as long as you knew that your lands were
potentially wetlands, you could have gone in from the
get-go and -- and sought a determination that they were
not wetlands through the permit process.
MR. SCHIFF: That's correct, Justice Kagan.
But, frankly, the way EPA and the Corps interpret the
scope of their jurisdiction, that would make essentially
every landowner in this country potentially on notice
requiring them to apply for a permit or some other
manner, and the agency will then probably have even a
worse situation; it will be flooded by permits.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
40:24 43:23 agency 1:6 3:5 analysis 8:4 51:21 53:25
59:12 actions 4:8 7:19 12:20,21 13:24 answer 15:1 18:24 19:3
41:13 add 4:17 22:5 29:22 anyway 24:20 39:25
11:23 19:21 39:10,18 40:21 6:22,24 7:1,6 42:7,13,16
7:25 14:3 29:2 47:16 48:1,6 17:23 18:9,19 2:2,5,8 3:3,7
55:2 56:16,18 58:2 20:14 22:16 32:1 51:18
adhere 34:20 22:19 42:23 46:6 52:4 12:21 14:10
52:18 39:20 ago 3:12 appeals 4:23 6:15
12:14 15:4 41:19,21,22 APPEARAN... 58:9
57:24 agreement application 12:3 29:13 43:1,2
3:24 5:24 8:1 agrees 40:12 57:18,20 aspect 48:18
15:4 20:18 AL 1:7 41:16 assertion 24:13
15:3 43:21,21 44:2 alert 38:16,20 applied 9:3 27:23
27:3,15 44:9,9,17,20 alia 39:25 39:23 41:1 assessed 33:22
28:1 44:20 45:23 Alito 14:7,15 42:9 assume 19:11
32:12,14 47:22 51:13,19 16:10,17 28:18 applies 55:8 53:7
53:23 54:6 28:21,23,24 apply 8:23,25 assuming 20:9
adopt 6:12 29:8 37:21 14:8,10 17:13 25:11
45:12 adopted 16:11 38:22 39:2 32:13 36:21 attach 17:19
53:15,16 28:25 29:4 53:1 58:7 39:11 41:12 attached 30:10
57:17,25 affirmative alleged 3:15 42:17,21 59:5 attempted 57:18
8:10 after-the-fact 24:21 26:15 46:6 58:13 attributable 4:5
12:20,21 8:24 9:1,3,24 allowed 13:12 appreciate 9:10
17:2,7 11:6 12:3,15 24:20 36:16 authority 24:13
36:25 39:6 allowing 7:6 approach 46:24 28:8,9 45:6
18:9 40:25 41:9,15 13:11 22:6 48:20 authorization
20:1 58:5 altering 26:4 appropriate 9:4 45:4
21:22 agencies 14:2 amending 49:12 36:3 41:10 authorize 27:1
23:11 28:15 30:16 amici 34:17 arbitrary 15:11 authorized 27:2
better 21:16 canon 22:6 Chantell 1:3 clients 4:11
55:4 44:15 characteristic 24:8,9
50:4,9 35:4,7 15:18,18 16:2 charged 16:23 coerciveness 9:9
57:14 Breyer 26:20 care 9:14 12:25 8:3,7,17 9:6 22:4
42:1,12,14 case 3:4 6:6 7:18 17:25 18:7,16 23:17 37:22
20:14 25:4 19:18 25:18,20 44:6 46:12,16
47:16,23 56:4,13 57:1 37:22 38:18,19 34:3 36:6,14 commence 44:5
28:14 31:6,16 48:20,25 49:2 54:22 55:1 common 28:14
45:24 17:7,11 23:11 59:10,11 choices 43:20 53:10
23:20 40:23 cases 9:22 39:20 choose 38:12 communication
50:1 50:14 54:11 55:11 19:17,25 47:14
52:25 brings 8:9 17:17 57:9 circumstance communicatio...
22:24 cause 7:6 16:8 50:5 38:20 48:6
20:18 21:18 caused 10:11,22 6:20 17:10 complaining
25:23 38:1,3,5,24 45:21 56:23 23:11,24 24:4 3:22 4:1,6,9,13
building 6:20 57:23 27:6,7 30:2,5 4:20,22,25 5:3
7:4 8:4 buy 37:25 10:13 24:23 clarification 8:2,18,19,22
11:25 38:11 40:24 9:2,10,13 10:9
19:4 C challenging clarify 24:21 10:10,14,20
45:11 C 2:1 3:1 25:12,17 39:17 26:2 29:7 12:4,6,13,19
calculations 51:11 clause 3:23 17:4 12:22 13:21,23
25:7,11 conditions 18:23 22:20 25:15,16 culpability definitively 34:7
26:3,6,9 conduct 31:10 30:20 33:1 29:18 demand 35:5
27:5 32:9 49:3 53:1 51:6 56:22 currently 13:8 denials 39:25
28:1 Congress 15:2 59:1 cuts 11:18 denied 39:24
21:9,22 22:3,9 corrective 41:5 cut-off 48:15 deny 58:13
33:3 22:10 cost 24:7 37:3 CWA 39:17 Department
34:2 Congress's 22:8 couched 45:25 1:19
35:4,7,9 connected 25:1 counsel 25:20 D deposited 33:10
36:2,8,9 connection 32:11 34:3 D 3:1 34:13
37:1,3,4 18:11 52:8 54:22 59:8,9 daily 4:1 34:10 deprivation
39:5 consider 9:22 country 58:16 DAMIEN 1:16 10:11 11:13
44:3,7 36:16 41:4 59:4 2:3,9 3:7 54:24 13:7
considered County 39:19 Damoclean 23:9 deprived 12:5
23:25 57:17 couple 34:4 date 21:19 Deputy 1:18
consistent 19:16 course 3:25 9:7 day 3:17 4:11 determination
48:2,5 constitutional 10:21 18:13 7:22 8:2,14 13:24 16:14
53:4 39:13 50:3 21:8 22:14 9:21 10:6 17:14 18:4
54:6 contend 18:10 41:12 51:4 16:23,24 21:20 22:19 24:16,24
57:11 18:12 court 1:1,13 22:7 26:17,17 36:3 38:11
contest 58:2 3:10 4:23 5:5 29:14 30:2 52:15 58:10,24
contesting 17:3 6:5 10:23 11:4 31:20 34:22 determines 41:8
12:15 18:21 21:20 22:7 41:1 45:13 15:8 16:12
12:5 contexts 32:4 28:4 34:8,11 days 33:21,23 dice 23:5,7
17:6 contingent 40:4 38:11 39:20,22 34:10,12,13 different 14:19
30:4,7 continue 17:6 42:10 45:22 deadline 40:5,6 17:22 19:22
37:2 29:19 50:2 51:8,21 dealing 35:19 20:17 32:12,20
49:18 continued 31:9 52:21,23 53:22 dealt 48:19 differently
49:2 57:15 58:2,15 14:11 43:23 differing 20:19
Cook 39:19 cover 44:20 17:19 58:14 difficulty 10:7
10:16,24 11:17 covered 40:17 declaratory 58:15
58:13 59:2 creating 6:16 53:10 46:9
7:3,16 9:19 critical 12:12 deferential 33:23
effects 8:19,20 23:10,20,22 expense 9:25 25:2 39:21
emphasize 7:4 49:15 52:12,23 21:8 33:23,25 34:12
51:9 55:25 57:24,24 extraordinary 38:5 45:15
encompass 59:2 extremely 49:9 filled 38:4
encourage 50:18 24:12 33:8,11 32:15
13:8 53:1 55:24 fact 4:17 5:8,9 35:20 42:4,5
34:11 23:11 45:6 2:6,9 11:11 12:18 44:6 46:7,13
enforcement essentially 4:6 16:7 19:21,25 finality 8:4 51:2
38:8 17:15,17 19:14 55:24 59:3 41:3 45:25 find 20:20 51:7
53:20 28:15 43:11,23 20:3 49:7 56:14,15 finding 5:7
26:2,16 engage 31:9 estoppel 17:13 55:7,9,11 56:7 54:10 58:19
30:19 Engineers 10:17 20:6,9,12,14 factors 9:8,9 findings 20:10
11:17 14:10 et 1:3,7 33:4 facts 22:19 fine 4:1,4 7:15
entertain 12:3 20:3 52:14 52:9 9:17,18
8:9,21 10:15 exercising 43:7 55:14 44:5 51:17
40:16 17:6,8,17 21:1 existing 38:21 features 45:24 floated 31:5
22:3,9,23,25 expect 41:14 Federal 11:4 flooded 59:7
43:10 57:25 hammer 49:25 46:14
28:20 29:24 happen 37:24 idea 31:10 34:21 initial 36:3 41:5
go 6:7 7:6 8:7 11:21 55:10 54:19 injured 14:5,17
49:9 35:4 38:10 hear 3:3 36:15 immune 44:22 inspectors 6:7,9
55:16 43:20 58:8 hearing 43:2,2,4 impact 8:11 7:10
33:7 going 6:9 11:2 hedge 50:18 impediment intend 50:13
11:24 12:2 held 4:8 5:5,10 37:5 39:6 intended 15:2
19:10 20:17 51:21 52:23 11:11 intent 22:8
31:2 32:20 helps 26:2 imposed 6:20 interminable
21:16 41:13 43:24 37:9 28:4 30:24 internally 44:10
48:17 52:20 higher 8:24 46:1 interpret 59:2
42:25 31:14,15 Hobson's 55:22 impression 41:23
gotten 54:17 hold 21:1 46:20,23 50:23 interprets 23:23
grant 43:14 37:23 38:25 incorrect 56:9 invitation 48:2
41:2 29:17,18 30:14 37:24 incur 9:25 issuance 15:15
15:6,10 51:11 10:19 11:8 independently 11:2,24 13:9
24:14 guarantee 10:23 33:2 57:15 9:12 16:8 18:2,5
43:1,18 guaranteed 3:23 hope 16:4 54:4,5 indication 15:2 21:3 22:3,9
51:24 guess 17:25 hoping 11:19 indirect 14:20 32:5 35:4
28:10 29:6,12 house 31:3,22 industry-wide 40:13,15 43:20
48:19 14:1,7,15 15:6 K Laughter 31:17 46:15 49:7
56:1 15:10,16,21,24 Kagan 4:10,16 35:13 54:5
16:5,10,17 12:11,18,24 law 15:19,20 looks 42:4 49:8
20:16 25:7 18:1,7,16,18 18:16 19:18 28:15 51:10 19:1 22:22
39:5 19:2,9,10,18 27:20 37:20 lawsuit 44:5 lost 23:4
49:1 20:5,7,8,23 40:10 42:13,16 lawsuits 47:6 lot 8:14 10:6
57:19 21:7,10 22:1 42:19 45:8 left 46:11 38:2 41:17
50:10 23:4,7,18,22 58:12,21 59:1 18:2,4 20:9,22 48:24
keep 30:17 43:12 49:18
50:1,4 30:18,21 31:2 28:13 31:14 53:17 MALCOLM
31:13,14,25 57:9,15 letting 30:8 1:18 2:6 25:22
34:3,23 35:12 37:24 55:6,21 57:25 59:6
10:9 13:6 36:14,23 37:6 knew 58:22 4:24 5:6,11 material 33:10
17:13 37:20,21 38:22 know 7:23 9:20 6:21 7:12 8:18 materially 8:22
22:5 39:2,9 40:10 10:6,25 16:6 8:20 10:12 matter 1:12
39:24 40:11,18,20,23 17:16 18:3 11:18 12:24 20:22
41:24 41:21 42:1,12 22:14 23:2 liable 4:8 5:10 30:13,19,22,23
44:3,10 42:13,14,16,19 29:13 35:6 21:1 35:3 38:14
51:12 43:1,18 44:8 36:11,24 45:16 likelihood 48:5 40:7 41:4 48:1
55:6 44:25 45:8,9 47:3 53:4 53:11 59:12
56:7 45:19 46:4,20 58:16,18 limit 15:22 maximum 7:25
59:3 47:13 48:8,11 limitations 31:11
18:2,5 50:8,11,20 L 1:18 2:6 25:22 limited 36:21 9:15 13:22
51:1,4,24 52:3 Labs 46:7 51:2,8 lines 46:2 15:22,22 16:21
4:4,10 54:3,22 55:1,3 38:16 39:7,10 litigation 34:25 21:22 41:1
5:4,13 55:23 56:4,13 46:24 59:4 little 38:1 45:3 46:5
7:1,3 56:18,22 57:1 landowners long 11:5 23:24 47:25 49:6
8:3,7 57:7,9,15 58:3 22:13 38:20 33:12 58:22 50:19,22
9:6,14 58:7,12,21 39:23 47:10 longer 31:23 meaning 12:4
10:4,5 59:1,8 54:8 57:11 look 25:5,6 meaningful 3:21
11:5 Justice's 18:17 58:1,20 37:17 41:22 14:24
12:11,17 19:18 lands 43:3 58:22 49:6 52:14 meaningfulness
13:5,9 justify 25:1 language 26:24 53:5 9:8
large 34:19 looked 41:11 means 39:17
41:5 nexus 19:6,13 opinion 6:5 46:2 44:21 45:1,2 26:11,16 27:1
nice 35:12,14 37:17,18 46:2,9,12 47:4 27:12,17,19,23
O 7:14,18 8:1,2 ordinary 37:23 perceived 44:13
Obviously 11:17 14:17,20,21 overstated 49:9 9:3,24 11:2,11
39:3 occurred 26:7 17:14 19:5 12:3,10,15
25:1 52:8 47:14 22:3 23:12,19 P 3:1 14:8,9,10,12
17:20 offered 3:21 26:3,6,8,12,18 pages 4:19 39:7,11,18,24
27:5,14 Oh 24:6 35:1 27:12,14 28:1 38:2 42:15 40:25 41:7,9
39:25 41:21 42:12 32:19,24 33:3 particular 42:18 58:5,6,8,9,13
58:9 old 23:12 33:10,24 34:2 parties 28:16 58:14,25 59:5
39:1 40:6 36:2,8,9,18 50:18 59:7
24:2 onerous 18:23 38:15 39:5 44:6 49:2 permitting
31:20 open 57:4 41:2,20 42:4 penalized 26:22 10:10,24 11:12
54:7,11 opening 31:6 42:18,23 43:16 penalties 4:14 12:19 14:3,23
40:6,7 54:15 probably 44:16 protected 56:15 R 3:1
47:16,19 potentially 27:6 48:4 59:6 protection 1:6 rack 8:13
57:22 58:23 problem 14:4 3:5,12 30:4 raised 10:16,18
2:4,10 3:8 practical 26:19 procedure 3:24 14:24 15:3 read 29:24,24
51:18 26:20 30:22,23 5:24 14:25 26:10 29:11 30:3 31:16
54:13 40:7 15:3 20:24 42:25 54:1 42:4
practice 35:3 45:1,2 55:13 57:3 reads 26:15 30:3
practices 50:6 proceedings provisions 4:18 realistic 30:13
precluded 41:18 process 3:23 7:5 pro-environm... really 14:2 21:5
19:19 14:23 18:19 56:11,14 35:21 46:15
38:6 15:14 24:23 58:11,25 20:20,22 51:11 50:19 52:21
51:6 3:16 produces 7:14 55:13 reason 14:3
31:11,19 34:21 32:21 put 38:5 39:3 56:21
37:14 premises 38:6 prong 7:1 54:7,11 reasonably 15:8
46:14 prepare 55:16 proper 34:1 putting 35:24 reasons 51:12
53:21 prepared 53:9 property 3:15 58:7,9 REBUTTAL
55:4 preponderance 5:15,18 6:17 2:8 54:24
19:23 20:3 11:1,25 12:7,8 Q
present 31:10 19:4,7 23:17 question 5:16,21 recipients 58:17
40:8 presumption 37:8,25 38:25 19:10 20:9,20 15:12 16:6
22:4 42:17,20 57:12 20:22 24:15,18 18:15 19:16
14:12 prosecution 43:16 46:6 25:6,8 36:12
31:6 primary 35:20 prosecutor 54:14 52:24 55:8,9
51:23 principal 7:17 49:24 53:8 questions 18:10 56:20,20,23
prior 20:25 43:8 quite 30:6 43:10 reduced 48:7
33:7 42:17,21 9:11 10:8,12 29:23 30:18,21
45:5 requisite 52:8 6:21 11:14 14:25 16:18 44:25 45:9,19
51:15 resolution 54:14 32:2 33:20 21:24 22:7 Scalia's 18:1
32:5 respect 34:9 55:18 33:25 35:8,21 schemes 32:7
44:6 44:23 47:21 rights 7:5 39:13 35:22 37:13 Schiff 1:16 2:3,9
50:17 respectfully ripe 57:17 42:24 45:11 3:6,7,9 4:4,10
Respondents 56:9 Sacramento 6:14,25 7:3,16
30:1,5 road 24:4 safe 41:6 10:4,7,18 11:7
34:22 restore 3:15 36:23 37:6 29:10,10 30:15 20:7,13 21:7
review 3:22 5:14 54:22 59:8 37:1 42:2 23:3,6,22
45:14 10:19 11:12 routes 43:24 says 12:6 17:16 57:14 58:3,12
12:22,25 14:20 routine 6:12 7:9 26:21,21 30:9 59:1
38:5 15:12,23,25 58:20 35:16 38:4,23 scope 6:4 34:1
18:25 19:9,22 36:16 42:2 49:11 second 40:3 42:3
23:10 24:6,12 runs 23:14 7:7,17 9:14,19 section 49:16
41:4 42:3,8 43:22 S 2:1 3:1 13:9,14,15 57:21
52:20 44:10 45:20,22 Sackett 1:3 3:4 15:16,21,24 seek 5:16,17,20
45:23 51:12,20 3:11 16:5 20:23 17:15 29:1,2
55:21 56:15 4:7,21 5:23 22:14,21,22 seeking 5:14
55:22 20:5,8 25:10 55:13 56:10 27:18,23 30:1 sway 48:6
17:7 33:5,14 48:8 7:25 15:13,14 45:12,13 51:19
sound 52:25 44:14 45:4 54:14 55:11 take 11:5,18
50:13 specify 26:6 28:2,9,19 29:4 19:13,24 20:10 takings 57:16
8:11,12 standard 9:4 33:1,8,17 34:6 8:23 48:7 50:22 56:16
19:6 15:6,11,23,25 35:6,18 36:1,7 sue 38:12 43:9 tangential 14:20
24:7 17:21 18:8 36:11,20 37:2 53:11 teed 42:10
23:10 52:4 56:15 39:1,4,15 12:16 52:23 15:25 22:13
35:25 standards 19:22 40:15,19,22 53:16,20,22 33:15,18 35:11
39:16 20:19,21 41:18,25 42:7 54:5 56:7 41:14 42:5
start 38:2 44:1,12 45:3 suggest 24:18 46:21
44:18 States 1:1,13 46:22 47:1,7,9 suggested 47:13 tens 3:17
24:1 26:9,11 strange 14:7 40:11 26:19 27:10
48:11 27:2,8,13 struck 18:2 39:10 31:6
39:4 32:6,22,22 stuff 35:25 surely 10:15 32:20
time 6:8 7:24 50:9 versions 33:3 wanted 22:9
31:19 52:24 53:23 unattractive 51:18 58:5 warning 43:8
37:24 55:10,10 37:14 vindicate 22:8 45:1,11 49:3,5
39:16 times 34:4 unaware 31:7 violate 32:14,15 49:8,13 50:10
42:3,5 title 23:16 underlying 29:1 32:18 50:12 51:4
46:11 today 3:11 32:1 underscores violating 21:2 warnings 28:16
55:16 told 14:18 16:21 14:15 22:11 26:10,11 29:22 30:16
35:9 tomorrow 41:1 9:23 11:16 27:3,7,12,13 Washington 1:9
39:15 52:14 29:9 55:17,18 27:25 28:1,17 1:19
43:10 total 57:22 55:25 30:13 31:21 Waste 39:18
46:16 traceable 5:11 understanding 33:22 53:18 water 3:14 19:8
55:15 tract 42:10 4:11 13:18 violation 4:2,12 42:9 47:5
tracts 40:1 understands 4:13,25 5:1,2,6 57:17
22:23 17:23 52:8 understood 8:10 15:19,20 20:11 18:11 25:1
28:16 trees 32:16 35:2 20:1 23:13 24:1 33:10 36:4
31:4,18 37:10 45:16 unfair 37:15 25:9,11,14 40:1 52:8
34:17 tremendously United 1:1,13 26:7 27:18 way 4:14 17:1,8
56:2 16:13 28:24 29:2,3,19,25 23:9 37:11
trial 53:9 33:11 36:5 30:3,6,9 31:1 38:10,10 39:21
trigger 9:12 37:25 40:2 32:6,20,22,23 55:20 58:14
42:22 21:21 43:21 unquote 23:25 33:12 34:11 59:2
44:1 trouble 39:11 unusual 41:14 35:17 36:4 ways 42:11
45:5 troubled 48:16 upheaval 50:6 38:17,21 45:12 weirdness 58:7
48:9 48:18,23 50:22 45:14,14 46:1 welcome 35:10
50:5,16 troubling 48:22 uphill 16:19 52:2 53:14 went 19:11 53:9
52:17,18 48:23,25 upside 14:21 58:19 weren't 36:14
55:4,12 true 12:12 17:10 use 44:11,12,13 violations 3:14 52:2
58:9 truth 16:1 45:17 4:21,22 44:13 wetland 13:16
try 15:17 usually 18:8 44:23 17:17,18 40:12
56:12 turned 14:21 W 10:15 11:1,20
56:5 28:1 29:12 v 1:5 3:4 49:24 54:18 13:1,3,10,11
39:15,20 41:11 vacated 13:22 waiting 23:10 13:20,23 14:11
34:25 type 6:12 variety 32:4 36:15 38:7 18:20,22,24,25
typical 15:11 various 57:3 43:19 52:19 19:1,3,7,12
32:15 X 4 3:12,20 14:22
34:14,22 x 1:2,8 46:17 21:17 54:23
37:1,8
Y 5
year 11:8 5 8:13
58:23,25 years 3:12,20 54 2:10
21:17 24:3
50:24
12:2 $
28:3 $10 7:22 8:2,6
9 1:10
33:21
46:6 53:3
56:16 $27,500 10:3
16:23
57:3 1
54:4 13 34:2
16:13 3 2:4 47:4
36:23 30 4:19
50:14 31 4:19
53:25 32.5 26:22 30:2
35:16
33:20,21 31:20
41:14 37.5 4:13 10:6
47:20,22 30:2 45:13
