IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MARGARET MINNECI, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 10-1104
RICHARD LEE POLLARD, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 1, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JONATHAN S. FRANKLIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
Petitioners.
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Petitioners.
JOHN F. PREIS, ESQ., Richmond, Virginia; for
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JONATHAN S. FRANKLIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States,
as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners 18
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN F. PREIS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JONATHAN S. FRANKLIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 10-1104, Minneci v. Pollard.
Mr. Franklin.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JONATHAN S. FRANKLIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. FRANKLIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Over the last three decades, the Court has
made clear that Bivens remedies are disfavored and will
only be authorized in narrow situations where there are
no adequate alternative means for redressing a
plaintiff's injuries and no other factor counsels
hesitation. Respondent has satisfied neither criterion.
He has not shown that he lacked a traditional tort
remedy for the injuries of which he complains, and
Petitioners' status as employees of a private
contractor, rather than the government, at a minimum
gives rise to factors counseling hesitation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: We go back to what you
said initially; that is, if there's no alternative
remedy, Bivens fills the gap.
Suppose we had a case just like Carlson,
only the State law allows survivor actions. In Carlson,
I thought the rule emerging from Carlson is that prison
personnel in Federal prisons are subject to Bivens
liability, and we don't look in each case to see whether
there could have been a State tort.
MR. FRANKLIN: Well, the rule --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that so?
MR. FRANKLIN: In -- the rule -- the Carlson
rule still applies, Your Honor, because that involved
actual Federal Government employees. And since Carlson,
Congress has pre-empted all tort claims against them.
So, whether Indiana law now -- which has been amended,
but whether Indiana law provides a remedy or doesn't is
immaterial, because Congress has pre-empted all tort
claims against actual employees of the government.
But these -- this case involves -- the
Petitioners are not employees of the government. They
are employees of a private contractor. And under the
Westfall Act, what Congress did was pre-empt all claims
against actual government officials while preserving
Bivens remedies.
But it did the opposite for employees of
private contractors. For them, there are adequate
alternative tort remedies. And it's virtually
undisputed in this case that there was such a remedy
here. And they are deliberately -- Congress expressly
excluded them from the category of employees against
whom it preserved Bivens remedies.
So, yes, in the Carlson situation, there is
still a Bivens claim because Congress has expressly
preserved that. But here we have a different
congressional policy that we are, in effect, asking the
Court to embrace here.
What Congress did in the Westfall Act is it
said what in effect we are asking this Court to
recognize and what we believe the Court has recognized
in cases like Malesko, and that is, where there are
adequate alternative tort -- excuse me -- where there
are no adequate --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, suppose, Mr. Franklin,
that there weren't. I mean, I think you have a good
case about California law here. But suppose we were in
a State where the law was very different from what
California's law appears to be, where there was no
special duty recognized for jailors and, indeed, where
the basic negligence tort was unavailable to inmates
because there was a finding of -- a holding of the State
supreme court that there was no duty on the part of
jailors to inmates. What would happen then?
MR. FRANKLIN: In that hypothetical instance
-- and we do think it's hypothetical -- we think that
would be a different case, and the Court could in that
circumstance say there are no adequate alternative
remedies. But the reason we think it's entirely
hypothetical is there has nothing been shown in the
briefing of this Court, and as the Ninth Circuit
dissenters made clear, that any State doesn't afford the
bedrock cause of negligence. And that cause, as the
Court held in Malesko quite expressly, is not only
adequate to redress any actions that would violate the
Eighth Amendment, but it's actually superior.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But is your answer --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Franklin, there were
some references to Mississippi law that seem to be
inconsistent with the notion that all States would
provide an adequate remedy.
MR. FRANKLIN: I believe that reference, if
I'm correct, comes from an amicus brief, and that law
does not -- would not on its face prohibit an action
against a private managed prison holding Federal
prisoners. These laws -- and the Mississippi law is an
example; there's a New York law. Those apply to State
government officials. They're similar to the Westfall
Act, but on a State level. They immunize State
government officials from claims, but those claims would
be subject to 1983 actions. Here we have a privately
managed prison holding Federal prisoners.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it -- and it might
hold State prisoners as well.
MR. FRANKLIN: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It might hold -- some
private facilities will take State prisoners as well as
Federal prisoners.
MR. FRANKLIN: There has been some
representation, that we don't disagree with, that there
might be some facilities that have State prisoners
and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And if they do have State
prisoners, the State prisoner would have recourse to,
not Bivens, but 1983.
MR. FRANKLIN: Most likely, Your Honor, yes,
if it's under --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, you have two
prisoners, identical mistreatment, and one gets a
Federal remedy and the other doesn't.
MR. FRANKLIN: The other actually gets what
the Court in Malesko described as a superior remedy.
The prisoner -- the Federal prisoner has, in that sense,
a remedy that's beyond the Eighth Amendment, that
goes --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me why it is
that you care in this suit? If you're telling us, oh,
don't worry, there's going to be liability and probably
perhaps even more extensive liability than in Bivens,
what difference does it make? Bivens doesn't give you
attorneys' fees. Now, it's true that the Federal
question may get you into Federal court.
MR. FRANKLIN: Well, I have several answers
to that. First, Your Honor, my clients care very deeply
in this case because, as the district court held, if
there's no Bivens remedy, this case is dismissed. This
case was dismissed on the lack of a Bivens remedy --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just because of the
statute of limitations?
MR. FRANKLIN: It's way too late now, 10
years after the incident, for them to now assert State
law claims. So, we do care. And, in fact, that was the
same situation that was in Malesko. In Malesko, you had
a virtually identical situation, where the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we're looking -- if
we're looking forward beyond this case --
MR. FRANKLIN: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- and there's no statute
of limitation problem, does it really make any
difference that he have this second cause of action
that's just --
MR. FRANKLIN: It makes a --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- (a) duplicative or (b)
arguably narrow, more narrow?
MR. FRANKLIN: Well, two points. I'd like
to first say that the Court in Malesko adopted the
principle that if there is an alternative remedy, that's
not a reason for piling on a Federal remedy; that's a
reason not to. But in a practical sense --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But why? What --
MR. FRANKLIN: I understand --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What difference does it
make?
MR. FRANKLIN: Let me give you --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Who cares?
MR. FRANKLIN: -- a practical difference that
does matter for individuals in my clients' situation.
If a State tort claim is brought, there is respondeat
superior liability under a State court claim. And in
many if not most cases, the plaintiff will choose,
voluntarily choose, to sue the corporation and leave the
individual out of the case.
Now, the deterrent effect that Bivens is
concerned with still exists because the case can be
brought against the individual. However, if there's a
Bivens claim, that has to be brought against the
individual; it cannot be brought under respondeat
superior. So, if there is a Bivens claim, as a
practical matter you're going to see more and more
individuals being dragged through these cases without,
by the way, the recognized qualified immunity defense --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Franklin --
MR. FRANKLIN: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- do you have a theory
about why these are brought as Bivens claims? It seems
mysterious to me. If you bring it as a negligence
claim, you get a lower standard of liability, negligence
versus deliberate indifference.
MR. FRANKLIN: Right.
JUSTICE KAGAN: You get vicarious liability.
So, I've been trying to puzzle out, why aren't these
brought as negligence claims rather than as Bivens
claims?
MR. FRANKLIN: I can't answer that question.
What I can say -- well, I can try to answer it, but I
can say that if the Court rules as we ask it to in this
case, we think that there will not be Bivens claims,
that people will bring them under the tort law.
It could be that there are forms in some of
these prisons that are given out that have section 1983
written on them, that Bivens is there. It could be that
prisoners are not quite aware that the Westfall Act
doesn't cover private contractors.
But we would think that if the Court rules
as we -- as we suggest it should, that there -- that the
prisoners who are relatively savvy, even on a pro se
basis, about their rights would then understand that
they have these rights and will exercise them and that
the Bivens remedy would not have to be employed
willy-nilly as it was in this case. But I --
JUSTICE KAGAN: To go back to what I asked
before when I hypothesized a State that didn't have
adequate remedies, and you said -- well, just to pin
down what you said, if there were no adequate remedies,
there would be a Bivens action available?
MR. FRANKLIN: There might be, Your Honor.
There still is the factors counseling hesitation, which
is the second step of the Bivens analysis. And I
wouldn't want to give up that there might be factors in
those cases counseling hesitation. But certainly our
position is not that in a circumstance, if that arose --
and, again, we think it's hypothetical because there's
no indication either that it has arisen or that it will
arise -- but if it were to, our position wouldn't rule
out the possibility of a Bivens claim in those
circumstances.
JUSTICE ALITO: To get back to the question
that Justice Ginsburg asked, is it -- is that consistent
with Carlson? Because the Court in Carlson didn't say
that there's a Bivens action because in this particular
State there isn't a viable State action, but it might be
different in another State where there is a viable State
claim. It did it on basically a categorical ground.
MR. FRANKLIN: Well, it -- as the case came
to the Court in Carlson, it was undisputed that there
was no adequate State law remedy, the lower courts had
held. So, that was sort of the basic premise that the
Court then went ahead and decided the case on.
Since Carlson, we've had cases, notably
Malesko, also Wilkie, which have made clear that the
adequacy of remedies, including State law remedies, is a
factor in the Bivens analysis and is in fact the
dispositive factor in Malesko, and as in this case as
well.
We don't think that there is really any
serious dispute in this case that there were adequate
alternative remedies. Again, the deliberate
indifference standard is much, much more hard -- much
harder to meet than a traditional negligence standard.
California law is, further, more protective of
prisoners.
As we understand the Respondents' position,
the Court -- they would urge the Court, notwithstanding
the availability of alternative remedies in this case
and as far as we can tell in every foreseeable case, to
create what they refer to as a categorical cause of
action, one that would apply regardless of whether the
remedies are adequate or not.
And in our view, that would turn the Bivens
jurisprudence effectively on its head. The Court has
said Bivens is a narrow -- I think Justice Ginsburg at
least paraphrased our argument as saying it's a
gap-filling mechanism, which is what our argument is,
that would apply only in those circumstances when it's
necessary. Other than that, the Court has consistently
deferred the matter to Congress. And that's where we
think it ought to lie in this case.
JUSTICE ALITO: Does a prisoner in a State
that requires the filing of a certificate of merit in a
medical malpractice case have a -- have an
alternative -- a viable alternative State claim --
MR. FRANKLIN: Yes, again, that's --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- for malpractice?
MR. FRANKLIN: We say yes. That issue is
not in this case. The Eleventh Circuit in Alba
expressly addressed that issue under that State's law,
and said, yes, that is adequate. It's simply a
procedural requirement that applies to all plaintiffs.
And I would add, by the way, that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, how is a prisoner
supposed to satisfy that requirement?
MR. FRANKLIN: The same way any other
plaintiff is supposed to -- but what I was going to add
is that when you're alleging an Eighth Amendment
violation, you're talking about a claim that's by its
nature very severe. You're talking about deliberate
indifference to serious medical needs that constitutes
the unnecessary and wanton infliction of pain.
In those circumstances, we would suggest
that it might even be easier to procure that kind of a
declaration, but that issue was decided in Alba. So,
that -- that was decided. If it comes up in another
case, it can be decided there. We don't think that that
would render the -- if it's -- if it's an adequate
remedy for everyone else in that State and most States
that have these things, then it's an adequate remedy for
Bivens.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did any of those courts
address the problem of how the pro se prisoner is going
to get an affidavit?
MR. FRANKLIN: Well, Alba -- the Alba court
is the only court that I'm aware of on the circuit level
that considered it, and I believe they did address that
issue and simply said that it is -- puts them on an
equal footing with other plaintiffs and that that would
be an adequate remedy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't -- I don't
understand your answer to Justice Kagan. If I heard you
right, you were saying, well, they're going to be able
to get a certificate because it's an Eighth Amendment
violation, and everything is very severe. But the point
is they're going to bring a negligence action, not an
Eighth Amendment action.
MR. FRANKLIN: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So --
MR. FRANKLIN: I'm talking about if the
conduct -- we're comparing here between conduct that
would violate the Eighth Amendment and conduct that's
negligent. And I'm saying if the conduct rises to the
level of an Eighth Amendment violation, which is what
we're talking about in terms of the adequacy, then it
would be easier, one would presume.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But I think the question,
Mr. Franklin, is really just a practical one --
MR. FRANKLIN: Sure.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- which is how a pro se
person sitting in prison is supposed to have access to a
doctor who will provide this certificate. And, I mean,
maybe there would be means, but I guess I'm asking
whether there would be.
MR. FRANKLIN: I would think there would,
but I don't want to say -- I don't want to argue someone
else's case on that. I mean, I do think that that was
an issue that was resolved, at least in the Eleventh
Circuit in Alba. It's not an issue that applies in this
case because there's no such certificate here in
California.
I do think it would be adequate. I mean,
Bush v. Lucas, which is a Federal remedies case, said
there were what they called "meaningful remedies." As
long as there's a meaningful remedy, it's sufficient.
And if Congress wants to think that there's a problem,
for example, if Congress thinks there's a problem with
these certificates of merit in the case of privately run
facilities, then it certainly can establish a cause of
action as it did in section 1983.
But the Bivens doctrine is really a narrow,
as we say, gap-filling doctrine. And the Court has
always used it very sparingly. And the reason the Court
has done that is because there is no authority for it in
the language of any constitutional or statutory
provision.
So, the Court has always treaded very
cautiously in this area. And I wouldn't rule out in
that circumstance that somebody could make that
argument. I -- I just don't think in this case there
has been any real dispute that there's an adequate
remedy. There wasn't in Malesko, and that was
sufficient in that case. And we think it is sufficient
in this case as well for the Court to in effect stay its
Bivens hand and turn the matter if necessary over to
Congress.
JUSTICE ALITO: Under the PLRA -- under the
PLRA, a district judge has to perform a screening
function for -- for these complaints, and is that -- is
it going to be an impossible burden for district judges
to ascertain the contours of State prison law, in that
there apparently is not a lot of prisoner litigation
under State law? Most prisoners seem to choose 1983.
MR. FRANKLIN: Well, in this case, the
magistrate judge did it. It wasn't an impossible burden
for him. This was done on a prescreening. The court
ruled as exactly as we are asking the Court to rule now.
The court did it. The Court in Malesko did it. It
wasn't difficult. If it is deemed that there's an issue
there, there are various procedural mechanisms that
could be employed. There could be a dismissal without
prejudice, a dismissal with repleading, certification to
a State court. You could stay the Bivens action.
There's various things that district courts
can do. But in this case, it wasn't an issue. It
wasn't an issue in Malesko. We don't think it's going
to be an issue in other cases either.
If I may reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Shah.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PRATIK A. SHAH
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS
MR. SHAH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The last three decades of this Court's
precedents make clear that judicial extension of a
Bivens remedy is not the default presumption. It is
permissible only where there is no adequate alternative
remedy and there are no other factors counseling
hesitation. Neither criterion is satisfied here.
Respondent is suing employees of a private
prison corporation who, unlike their federally employed
counterparts, are subject to well-established theories
of tort liability but lack a recognized qualified
immunity defense. Under the circumstances present here,
which I submit reflect the heartland of cases alleging
Eighth Amendment violations for deliberate indifference
to serious medical needs, recognition of the Bivens
remedy is neither necessary nor appropriate.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Shah, go back to what
you said about lacking -- these private -- these
employees of the private corporation you said lack
qualified immunity. But they do have -- courts have
allowed them to have a good faith defense. So, in
practice, how different is that, whether they have
qualified immunity or whether they have a good faith
defense?
MR. SHAH: A couple of responses, Your
Honor.
First, this Court has never recognized a
good faith defense. So, I wouldn't call it a recognized
defense. It is true that some lower courts have applied
a good faith defense. Reading those cases, it's not
entirely clear exactly what the content of that good
faith defense is. What is clear is that it's something
less than qualified immunity. It appears in most of the
cases that they're grafting on some sort of subjective
element, subjective intent element, on top of what you
must establish to get qualified immunity.
So, whatever it is, it's something lesser
than qualified immunity, and I think that in and of
itself creates an asymmetry. But I think the larger
point is, is that these prisoners have alternative
adequate remedies under State law because they're suing
a private employee rather than a government employee.
The government employee is subject to the
Westfall Act, and, therefore, all civil actions other
than Bivens are pre-empted. And so, I think that's the
fundamental difference. I think it further counsels
hesitation because of the lack of a recognized immunity
defense, whether that's qualified immunity or good
faith.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you address the
question posed earlier of what were to happen if there
was a State law that gave absolute immunity to these
private correctional officers, and that was the case
before us. This particular State, it's undisputed,
would not permit any kind of intentional or negligence
suit against these officers.
MR. SHAH: Sure. Your Honor, in that
hypothetical -- and of course, there is no suggestion in
this case that any State has such a rule -- but if a
State were to adopt that such rule, I think that would
be a case where there is no adequate alternative remedy,
because in your -- in your hypothetical, there is
absolute immunity. There wouldn't be a way for the
prisoner to redress -- seek redress for the gravamen of
his injuries. And I think in that case, we have a very
different situation, and a Bivens remedy may well be
justified. But --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Interesting, because
what you're proposing is a sort of State-by-State,
circuit-by-circuit, presumably, existence of a Bivens
claim or not. That's really the outcome of your
position.
MR. SHAH: Well, yes, Your Honor, except the
fact that there has been no suggestion that any State
has such a draconian rule or has ever passed one. We're
simply arguing for a rule that would limit Bivens to
when there is no adequate State law remedy. That's
clearly the case here. It's clearly going to be the
case in the vast majority of Eighth Amendment prisoners.
What this Court should not do is craft a default rule
allowing Bivens remedies against employees of private
prison corporations just to account for the hypothetical
possibility that there may be a case which may or may
not ever arise in which an adequate alternative is not.
That turns Bivens jurisprudence on its head.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Then I guess the
question is -- yes, when you talk about an overlap of
remedies, we have said that it doesn't need to be a
matching one-to-one remedy, but you do need some degree
of meaningful overlap, don't you?
MR. SHAH: I would agree with that, Your
Honor. I think -- I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, how -- define how
much or how do we describe the adequacy of that overlap?
MR. SHAH: I think it would be difficult to
come up with a precise formulation. I think the
formulation that we use in our brief is that as long as
it redressed the gravamen of the prisoner's injuries.
So, I think as long as it provides some meaningful
relief for the injuries and in turn that would provide
some deterrence to the individual employees' actions --
I think as long as those two elements are present, I
think we would think that there is an adequate
alternative remedy.
Or, alternatively, if you wanted to use the
words -- the word that this Court used in Bivens, you
could approach it from the flip side and say there would
not be an adequate alternative remedy where the State
law is either inconsistent with or hostile to the
corresponding constitutional interest. We submit in
this case there's no question that there are remedies
available under California State law and, as far as we
know, the State law of every other State in this country
that would allow --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It is -- a Bivens
action is unusual in the first place, but it's also
unusual to say that you don't have a Federal cause of
action because of something a State gives you.
Do you have any other example of something
like that, where the availability of Federal relief
turns on the availability of alternative relief under
State law?
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, it may not be an
exact analogue, but I think Federal due process cases
often will look at if someone's claims of deprivation of
property, an unlawful deprivation of property, in
violation of process -- the Federal court may often look
at what are the available State law procedures to
provide redress for that claim before it would impose or
find a violation of Federal due process.
So, I think there are analogues where
Federal courts do look at the availability of State law
remedies and look at their adequacy before determining
whether a Federal law remedy is necessary. And this
Court has done that. And the Court did it in Malesko, I
think is the best example in the Bivens context of where
the Court looked at alternative State remedies and said
that, hey, look, the availability of these other
remedies counsel against the imposition of a Bivens
remedy.
JUSTICE KAGAN: What is the theory behind
that, Mr. Shah? I mean it's an obvious theory when
Congress has provided an alternative remedial system,
which is a separation of powers theory. But what's the
theory about looking to State law for these kinds of
alternative remedies?
MR. SHAH: Two responses, Your Honor. While
I agree the separation of powers problem is much more
heightened when Congress acts, I think there is still a
separation of powers issue even when Congress has not
acted. That is, the Court should be hesitant before --
before implying a judicial -- a cause of action for
damages under the Constitution, given that it's
typically been Congress's province to do so.
But, beyond that, the rationales -- there
have been two rationales that have been given by this
Court in its -- in its Bivens jurisprudence for implying
such a remedy. One is the need to provide some
meaningful relief. We submit when there is an
alternative State remedy, that rationale has been
satisfied.
The other rationale this Court has offered
is provide some deterrence to the actions of an
individual employee or officer. We also submit that
when there is a State tort damages remedy available,
that rationale too will be accomplished.
The three cases in which this Court has
recognized a Bivens remedy, Bivens itself, Davis, and
Carlson, those two factors were not present. There was
either no alternative remedy at all or, at least as in
Carlson, no alternative remedy against the individual
officer.
JUSTICE ALITO: What would you propose that
the Court say about the degree of adequate State remedy
that is necessary? Just -- what we have here in
California is enough and not go any further or --
MR. SHAH: I think the Court should start
with that. Certainly, here there hasn't been any
dispute that there would be -- any real serious dispute
that there would be an adequate alternative remedy. I
think the Court could also say that, as long as the
adequate alternative remedy addresses the gravamen of
the prisoner's injuries, that should be sufficient. And
I think it could give content to that by looking at the
two rationales this Court has offered for Bivens.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that a State did for
claims against private prisons and private prison guards
what I understand New York has done with respect to
State-run prisons; in other words, that you eliminate
any claim against individual prison employees or guards
and give the prisoner just a tort claim against the
State. Would that be adequate?
MR. SHAH: I think that would be a tougher
case. And, of course, I assume in your hypothetical
that that's -- that that would also apply to Federal
prisoners and federally contracted prisons, and it's
difficult to figure out what the State's interests --
JUSTICE ALITO: Not a claim against the
State. I misspoke. A claim -- only a claim against the
company that runs the prison.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, again I think that
would be a more difficult hypothetical because the
rational about individual deterrence of the individual
officer may not be as strong in that hypothetical. But,
once again, no State has such a rule, and it's difficult
to imagine a State's incentive to adopt such a rule
because it's not coming out of the State's pockets.
These are federally contracted prisons, contracted by
BOP and run by private prison corporations.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the character
of the claim? If it's a Bivens claim, it's a
constitutional claim. It's an Eighth Amendment claim.
And if you're looking to State remedies, that's an
ordinary tort remedy with no constitutional involvement.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, it is true, the
labels are different and there's going to be different
meaning to those remedies. But from the prisoner's
standpoint, the rationale behind Bivens was to provide
some damages relief. From the prisoner's standpoint,
it's not going to matter, I would submit, whether that
-- those damages are procured under State law or under a
constitutionally implied action.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Preis.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN F. PREIS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. PREIS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The question before the Court today is
whether a Federal prisoner's access to constitutional
remedies should turn on the mere happenstance of where
the prisoner is detained. The Petitioners' chief
argument is that privately held Federal prisoners should
not have an Eighth Amendment damages remedy because they
have remedies under State law. This argument suffers
from two flaws. First, it misconceives this Court's
Bivens jurisprudence; second, it misconceives the nature
of State remedies available to prisoners.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why are State
remedies -- what of your clients' claims could not be
vindicated under State law? And why is a Bivens action
superior to a negligence action in California?
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, with regard to the
claims that can't be vindicated under State law, we
think it's likely that his medical malpractice claims,
the claims against the doctors, could be vindicated. We
don't think the law is clear in -- excuse me -- in
California that his other claims, the deprivation of
nutrition and hygiene, forced labor at some point before
he was -- his injuries were healed, that those would
necessarily be covered.
We admit there's a chance, as we did in our
brief, that it's possible the California Supreme Court
could say, well, there has been an intermediate
appellate court who has decided this. We take on
guidance that and believe these remedies would be
covered. But there's nothing here that could -- that
could assure this Court that that's the way it will work
out.
With regards to why Bivens are superior,
Bivens are superior when there's no State cause of
action. So, there will be some cases, as we concede,
where a State cause of action is available. The reason
Mr. Pollard brings a Federal cause of action in this
case is because it's not clear that State remedies are
certainly available.
And I think the certainty is an important
thing for this Court to remember. The issue before
Bivens itself was whether or not this Court should adopt
a system of State remedies. And the --
JUSTICE BREYER: The specific case where the
State remedy is not available is?
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, I'm not aware of any
particular case where a State --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no, no. Your --
MR. PREIS: Oh, excuse me.
JUSTICE BREYER: Your allegation which you
believe states a valid claim under Bivens action but not
under State law is?
MR. PREIS: The claims that we say do not
have a State law --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't understand
specifically what they are. I mean, it sounds to me
that if a person (a) deliberately starves somebody to
death, for example, or deliberately gives him something
which will make him sick when he eats it, that that
would at least be negligence and would arise under
ordinary State tort law. So, I'm curious to know what
your claim is that does not arise under ordinary State
tort law?
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, I think at the
starkest example, if it was the case that somebody
actually starved someone --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, give me -- don't answer
my -- forget my hypothetical. Tell me your specific
claim that does not arise under State tort law. That's
all I want to know. Which is the same question I
heard -- I just didn't hear the answer to.
MR. PREIS: Oh, excuse me, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: I heard the answer in
general.
MR. PREIS: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: I want to know specifically
what you say they did to your client that doesn't make
out a State tort claim.
MR. PREIS: He brings four claims that he
think alleges an Eighth Amendment violation. One is the
medical malpractice, which we concede is likely
available; the other three, we do not find sufficient
evidence in California law that there will certainly be
a remedy.
JUSTICE BREYER: I heard you say --
MR. PREIS: And those three are --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- that. I just want to
know what it is physically you say the defendant did to
your client, so that I can evaluate your statement that
California gives no tort remedy for that.
MR. PREIS: Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: Sorry, I don't mean to
sound irritated, but I just have trouble getting my
question across.
MR. PREIS: Understood, Your Honor. Mr.
Pollard was deprived of adequate food and hygiene. A
second claim, he was --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. They failed to
give him adequate food for what? So he could live, or
for what?
MR. PREIS: Well, yes, adequate nutrition.
I'm not saying to the point of death, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: They gave him -- and if a
person in California who has charge of -- of a ward or
someone fails adequately to nourish that ward, you're
saying California tort law gives no remedy?
MR. PREIS: I'm saying there's no evidence
that it does, Your Honor. I think it --
JUSTICE BREYER: I would call it like
negligence, you give a remedy. If it's not negligent,
it's deliberate? Or what?
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, I think I would
put -- I think the best way to approach that question is
to look at the shoes of an attorney. When if someone
comes in and says I was deprived of these benefits that
I was entitled to and I was suffered a harm, the
question would be for the lawyer as well, I'll go read
the case --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You can't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The lawyer would say, I
can't find a starving case in California; so, you must
not have a cause of action.
Is that what the lawyer would say?
MR. PREIS: No, I think the lawyer would
say, I can't be certain. I haven't found a case --
JUSTICE BREYER: It seems odd to me because
the Eighth Amendment says cruel and unusual punishment.
So, you have to have a cruel treatment. And where a
person deliberately or negligently subjects someone else
to cruel treatment, my -- my law school recollection of
many years ago is that there ordinarily is a tort
action.
So, that's what I'd like you -- I'm
suspicious of your statement that there isn't.
MR. PREIS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Therefore, I ask for some
elaboration of that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you have besides
starving? What -- what else?
(Laughter.)
MR. PREIS: The other claims were, after he
suffered his injuries, he was put back on his work
detail before his injuries were healed. He was also,
immediately after being injured, forced to sort of
endure excessive security measures, forced to wear
particular handcuffs that pushed his arms in a -- in a
way that was -- caused extraordinary pain and was
unnecessary.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ask you the same
question that I asked Mr. Franklin? Because it just
doesn't make any sense to me. The gravamen of this
claim is a medical malpractice claim. Why aren't your
State law remedies better? You have vicarious
liability, and all you have to prove is negligence. Why
wasn't this brought as a State law claim?
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, I think there's two
parts to that, two answers I would give. First, Mr.
Pollard was put in a Federal prison by the Federal
Government. He often has access -- actually only has
access to Federal law books. When he sees himself
injured, he thinks this is presumably a Federal case.
So, I think there is a certain ethic or, at least,
practice, is how that works.
Now, why wouldn't medical malpractice work
here?
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that would be false
consciousness that we can correct, right?
MR. PREIS: Excuse me, Your Honor, I missed
the beginning.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, if the -- if the
true appropriate remedy, and the better remedy from your
client's point of view, is a State law action, we should
just say bring a State law action.
MR. PREIS: Well, we think that prisoners
should have access to the State law action, and when
there's cause of action available, it might indeed be a
better remedy. But I think in terms of whether or not
medical malpractice works here, it will work in terms of
deterring the medical professionals, but we have
multiple defendants in this case, not all of them -- of
which would be culpable under -- or liable under a
medical malpractice regime. How do we handle the other
prisoners -- excuse me -- the other defendants?
So, I think you're focused in terms of the
remedies available, and I would concede, of course,
that's important to the -- to the prisoner. But, of
course, the Court is concerned with deterrence in these
cases.
So, I want to return to Justice Breyer's
question, if I might. The gravamen of this case is that
in ordinary cases, most of the time -- and the Court is
required in this case to figure how big is that "most of
the time"? Is it 99 percent of time? Is it 80 percent
of the time? And that's what we simply don't have
evidence on in this case. And I want to point --
JUSTICE BREYER: When I went to law school,
which was many years ago, instead of talking about,
like, starvation cases or medical malpractice, they
talked about a general thing called negligence.
MR. PREIS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And it seemed to apply to
doctors, and then it was medical malpractice, and it
applied to others, and -- and is there something here
that wouldn't fall in that general kind of rubric or the
general terms of California tort law?
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, I guess your --
JUSTICE BREYER: And I know, I don't want
you just to repeat yourself.
MR. PREIS: No --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, I guess I have the best
answer I have.
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, I'll say two things
to that. First, I think what you're asking me to do,
and which in a sense the Court will be required to do in
this case, is predict what State supreme courts will do
on a regular basis. And I would suggest -- suggest
that's sort of an extraordinary measure to take in a
case where you have Federal prisoners, Federal
constitutional rights, and Federal actors.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- asking us to do is
limit our inquiry to California?
MR. PREIS: Excuse me.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Limit it to California.
What -- what --
MR. PREIS: I don't --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They're saying don't
look at what other courts will do; just look at the
State you're in, the place you're going to make your
claim, and figure out whether your claims are covered or
not covered essentially in those -- in that State.
MR. PREIS: They're suggesting this Court
look only at California.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right.
MR. PREIS: We don't think that is
appropriate. This Court's view has always been that a
Bivens action exists or does not exist with regards to a
entire category of defendants, or the context.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, so, if there is one
State that would not have an adequate remedy for any --
any single bad thing that could happen in prison,
there's a Bivens action for everybody for everything?
Is that what you're saying?
MR. PREIS: Yes, Your Honor, we are.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wow.
MR. PREIS: I think if the Court were to
write an opinion in that case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I certainly wouldn't want
to hold that.
(Laughter.)
MR. PREIS: I'm not surprised that you
wouldn't want to hold that, Your Honor.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I would find that rather
surprising, too, actually.
(Laughter.)
MR. PREIS: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because I -- I think what
they're asking to do is fine. On their theory, you have
no problem because you go back and show to the court
that there is no remedy in California for shackling a
person, I guess, deliberately, with knowledge that that
would cause severe pain, and if you can show that, then
you're going to have your Bivens action in respect to
that.
MR. PREIS: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: That -- what they're saying
is that you're not going to be able to show that; so, it
doesn't worry them.
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, I think that the --
the view that there's an ordinary duty of care, a duty
to be reasonable, is quite a bit more complex than the
Petitioners would make it out to be. Let me offer an
example. In this case, in 2007 the district court
dismissed Mr. Pollard's complaint. The district court
said you have State remedies.
Well, what was the proof for that? What was
the State law remedies that existed? The only thing the
district court cited in a footnote was section 1714 of
California's civil code.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Who says that the burden is
on the other side? Why isn't the burden on you, if you
want to bring a Bivens action, on you, to show that
there is not an adequate State remedy?
MR. PREIS: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're the plaintiff here.
You're trying to bring the Federal cause of action. Our
law is clear; if there's an adequate remedy we don't
invent one. Why isn't it your burden to show that there
is not an adequate State remedy?
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, two answers to that.
First of all, this Court's most recent case where it
dealt with whether or not a burden should exist was
Wilkie, and there, the majority of the Court said, when
we look at alternative remedies, we try to figure out,
quote, "whether they amount to a" -- "amount to a
convincing reason for the judicial branch to refrain
from providing a new and free-standing remedy."
Inasmuch as there has been burden discussion in this
Court's case law, it would seem to fall -- fall on the
other side.
Now, I think there's an important point here
when we think of burdens. This case is so close to
Carlson that really the burden should be on them to take
it out of Carlson. I want to address Carlson for a
second, if I may.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, before you do,
on page 5 of your brief you say, in the private prison
setting, quote, "'a Bivens claim against the offending
individual offending officer,'" end quote, is an
appropriate remedy. And the quote is from Malesko.
MR. PREIS: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What we said in
Malesko, where you quote, is that if a Federal prisoner
in a BOP facility alleges a constitutional deprivation,
he may bring a Bivens claim against the offending
individual officer. Now, your friend describes that as
a distortion of what we said in Malesko, and I just
wanted to give you a chance to reply to what I think is
a fairly serious assertion.
MR. PREIS: Yes, Your Honor, and I would
seriously disagree with the suggestion it's a
distortion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, just to be
clear, you quote that language -- you say "in the
private prison setting"; and the language specifically
says in a BOP facility.
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, what the Court was
speaking of in that section of its opinion was that the
remedies between a BOP facility and individuals in a
private facility should be similar, that it made no
sense to give extra remedies to people in a private
facility. And so, the Court, Justice -- Chief Justice
Rehnquist at the time, was making a comparison saying
there should be a general symmetry. And all we are
pointing out in that quote is that inasmuch as symmetry
matters, well, the Court there in Malesko had said,
well, we would likely expect there to be an individual
remedy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You would expect the
same rule. That's your argument --
MR. PREIS: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- to apply in the
private prison setting. What you say is that there we
explained that, in the private prison setting, a Bivens
claim against the offending individual officer was the
appropriate remedy.
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, I guess I certainly
took part of the quote and didn't use all of the quote,
but I did not in any means say -- mean to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's known as misquoting.
MR. PREIS: Well, Your Honor, I guess I
would respectfully differ.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you be taking the
position that even if there is an alternative State
remedy, tort remedy, even so there ought to be a
parallel Bivens action? Or would you say no Bivens
action if all of the States have adequate tort remedies?
MR. PREIS: I think, Your Honor, if this
Court would -- could tell with confidence that States,
in all States, provided sufficient remedies for the
entire variety of Eighth Amendment violations, this
Court would be certainly wise in allowing State remedies
to work. But I think we're far from that situation.
I want to turn, if I may --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Could you give me your best
example of a State tort rule that would prevent a
prisoner from bringing an Eighth Amendment claim?
MR. PREIS: Excuse me, Your Honor. Could
you repeat that question?
JUSTICE KAGAN: Your best example of a tort
rule from any State that would preclude a -- a valid
Eighth Amendment claim.
MR. PREIS: In other words, the prisoner
would have an Eighth Amendment claim but not a tort --
JUSTICE KAGAN: You have 50 States' worth of
tort law to -- as your playground, and I want to know
what tort rule would keep a prisoner with a valid Eighth
Amendment claim -- would prevent him from recovering?
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, I would note
Maryland, for example. In Maryland, attacks by a
prisoner on another prisoner are evaluated in terms of
the liability of the warden; a lot evaluate it on a
maliciousness standard. Now, the standard this Court
uses in attacks by one prisoner against another is a
deliberate indifference standard. The deliberate
indifference standard is different.
We're not arguing in this case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand what
you're talking about. Is this a suit against a prisoner
who was attacked?
MR. PREIS: Excuse me, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He's not liable unless he's
malicious, or what?
MR. PREIS: No, it's a suit against the
warden --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The warden.
MR. PREIS: -- for a failure to protect
someone against attack by another prisoner.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I see. And -- and the
warden is liable in Maryland, you say, only if he is
malicious?
MR. PREIS: The test in Maryland is
maliciousness, yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about medical
malpractice caps? Is that an issue? In other words,
State law -- and I don't know how many there are; I know
it's been proposed -- I think it's true in some
cases will cap your recovery for medical malpractice at
a particular level.
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, I don't think it's a
significant difference in this case. For instance,
California --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I was -- that was a
helpful question, in the sense that --
(Laughter.)
MR. PREIS: Oh, I understand. I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The Bivens action --
presumably the cap would not apply. But it applies
under State law.
MR. PREIS: I think there will be some cases
in which the remedies will be curtailed under State law.
And one could expect that the deterrent value of a State
law remedy would not be available.
I have a couple of minutes remaining, and I
want to turn to Carlson. I think the suggestion is in
this that we've -- the discussion that we have had so
far is that we're asking the Court to reach out and
create an extraordinary cause of action. I simply don't
think that's true. This case is very similar if not the
same as Carlson.
In Carlson, the Court said that a Federal
prisoner has a cause of action against Federal actors
for a Federal constitutional right. That's what this
case is. And the only distinction the Petitioners can
point to is the fact that they are privately employed
Federal actors as opposed to publicly employed Federal
actors.
So, the question becomes, is "privately
employed" Federal actor a meaningful distinction from
"publicly employed"? We would -- if that distinction is
meaningful, we would have expected to find some
discussion of it in Malesko, but the Court there paid
absolutely no attention to the private status. The
Court in Malesko said that Malesko, that case, was in
every meaningful sense the same as FDIC v. Meyer.
FDIC v. Meyer was a suit against a public agency.
If the case is in every meaningful sense the
same as Meyer, then it must have been what mattered to
the Court in Malesko was that it was a suit against an
entity, not public versus private. So, we think there's
no evidence in this case that -- or, excuse me -- no --
nothing in the law that suggests this Court cares and
ever has cared the distinction between public and
private remedies.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in Carlson, it was
Bivens or no damage remedy. Here, that's not the case.
MR. PREIS: Excuse me, Your Honor, I missed
the first part of the question.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In Carlson, the Court was
operating on the theory that with respect to the Federal
employee, it was a Bivens remedy for damages or no
remedy at all.
MR. PREIS: No individual remedy.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Right.
MR. PREIS: Yes. Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And here, it is different
from Carlson because there is an -- a remedy against an
individual. So, we have the parallel remedies here
which didn't exist in Carlson, and that makes the two
cases different.
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, I think it's fair to
say that, in Carlson, the Court expressed a preference
for an individual remedy over an entity remedy. But I
don't think it's fair to say that the Court addressed in
Carlson how it would compare to individual remedies.
That issue actually came up in Bivens.
There was an individual remedy proposed that would be
available under State law, and the alternative was a
remedy under the Constitution itself. So, when the
Court was faced with two alternative individual actions,
the Court said that we prefer the constitutional cause
of action. And the reason in Bivens was we can't be
certain really how State law works.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you disagree
that the -- I know you have your argument on
compensation --
MR. PREIS: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- but with respect
to deterrence, is there any significant difference
between the two causes of action? In other words, if
you think the most significant aspect of Bivens is
to deter constitutional violations, doesn't that work
equally as well or perhaps more effectively under the
State law than under Bivens?
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, I think in the end
the question asks me to make a 50-State assessment of
how State law works, and in that sense, one can only
speak in generalizations.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, your answer --
your answer is the same as under compensation, that the
State law might be different or not?
MR. PREIS: We think, inasmuch as a cause of
action is available, with the exception, as the Court
noted, of damages caps, there -- we would expect to have
a similar level of deterrence, provided that damages are
available.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Who -- who actually
ends up paying in these Bivens actions? Is it the -- I
mean --
MR. PREIS: What we don't know for --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- the Federal
Government or an individual or --
MR. PREIS: We would expect -- first of all,
obviously, the liability is imposed on the individual.
We would expect, as a general matter, that there would
be indemnification by the corporation. The question
then is, of course, whether that gets passed on to the
Federal Government. And I don't think it's fair -- if
the Court allows a Bivens action here, I think there's
the suggestion that all of a sudden, there'll be a whole
new realm of liability and costs. And that's simply not
the case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm just looking in
terms of the practical deterrence. The problem I've had
with it in general, I don't know how much practical
deterrence there is as if you sue the individual and
the -- the individual doesn't actually pay; the
government does. It seems to me perhaps more likely in
the private context that the individual may get stuck
with some amount of the liability if the employer just
says, look, you were off doing something you weren't
supposed to do; we're not going to pay for it.
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, I'm not versed in
the indemnification rules of private prisons, but I
would expect that there will be some instances where
there's indemnification. I think the general rule in
terms of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think that the
warden of a Maryland prison is aware that if -- if he
allows one prisoner to beat up another prisoner, he is
only liable for maliciousness and not for deliberate
indifference, if indeed there is a difference between
the two? Do you think that -- that he's threading the
needle that finely, as far as -- as far as deterrence is
concerned?
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, I think it's always
been this Court's presumption that actors, legal actors,
respond to the standards of law that are imposed. I
can't say --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not at that level of -- of
refinement. I mean, it seems to me that any warden
knows he's subject to State tort law and that State tort
law renders him liable for negligence and, indeed, for
physical assaults. Some of your causes of action are
intentional torts, not even negligence. I find it hard
to believe that, as far as deterrence is concerned,
there's a dime's worth of difference between State law
and -- and the Bivens action you're asking for.
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, if it's the case
that there's not a dime's worth of difference, that
would only be at this point. And one can expect State
law to change over time. I think one of the questions
propounded to Mr. Franklin or Mr. Shah was, what if a
State imposed a -- or created absolute immunity? I
think -- I take Your Honor's point to be that there
could be a similarity at one point. And we agree that
that could exist for any -- for a particular
circumstance. But we don't think this Court should take
the enforcement of Federal rights in Federal prisons
with regard to Federal actors and set up a scheme where
that's handled through State law. There's simply not a
justification there.
Your Honor, I'd like to address the Westfall
Act. They argue strenuously that Congress has already
spoken in this case. And that's simply not the case.
In the -- put it this way: The FTCA and the Westfall
Act deal only with Federal employees, the liability of
the Federal Government for actions of Federal employees.
Their argument is essentially that Congress attempted to
deal with whether or not private contractors should be
liable in these situations by -- by amending a statute
that has nothing to do with private contractors. And
that simply doesn't work. It's not -- there's no
suggestion here that Congress attempted to address this
situation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what was the
purpose of making the reference to private contractors
in the Westfall Act?
MR. PREIS: Your Honor, the Court -- excuse
me -- Congress did not make a reference to private
contractors in the Westfall Act. They simply -- the
Congress simply referred to employees of the United
States. And the reason the Court -- excuse me --
Congress referred to employees of the United States was
because the FTCA only applies, and has always only
applied, to contractors -- excuse me -- employees of the
United States. There would have been no reason to reach
out because it would be totally beyond the specter of
the FTCA itself.
I think, Your Honor, there's something else
to note here with regard to Congress. At most, what
we're dealing with here is congressional silence. They
suggest that Congress is fit to take care of this.
Nobody doubts that Congress is fit to step in and take
care of this at some point in time. But -- this Court's
practice with regards to Bivens has been, when Congress
steps in, to stand back. But here we have congressional
silence. As this -- as the Court said in 2007, its most
recent Bivens case was, when you're dealing -- well,
excuse me -- the Wilkie case did not involve any
specific congressional action. The Court viewed it
essentially as congressional silence. The majority of
this Court at that time said our evaluation in that
instance is to figure out -- excuse me -- whether the
Federal courts must make the kind of remedial
determination that is appropriate for a common law
tribunal. The Court at that point saw itself as a
common law tribunal within the specific circumstance of
whether or not a Bivens remedy should be available.
That's not to say the Court should adopt some sort of
roving common law power. It's simply to say where
there's congressional silence and the case looks almost
identical to Carlson, if not identical, that there's
sufficient reason for this Court to find a Bivens cause
of action here.
If there's no further questions, I urge this
Court to affirm the holding of the Ninth Circuit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Franklin, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JONATHAN S. FRANKLIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. FRANKLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
I just wanted to correct one possible
misimpression. There's no allegation here that anyone
was deliberately starved. With the allegation regarding
the food, his allegation in his complaint is that he --
because presumably his arms were in casts, he couldn't
hold his tray in the cafeteria, and, therefore, he says,
I had to buy my own food from the commissary because I
didn't want to be humiliated by going to the cafeteria.
We think that if that claim somehow stated a
claim under the Eighth Amendment for deliberate
indifference, that it would state a claim under
negligence as well. And all of these claims essentially
are that the prison failed to accommodate his injuries.
Malesko was the same. In Malesko, the argument was: I
didn't get to use an elevator because I had a
pre-existing condition, and that's what caused my harm.
If there is something that negligently
causes harm, unreasonably causes harm, there is a remedy
in California. I would also note that if it does not
cause harm, there's no Bivens remedy, because Congress
in the PLRA has said you cannot bring any claim, if
you're a prisoner, in Federal court unless it involves
physical harm.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you want us to hold that
there's no Bivens action in California? Is that -- is
that what our opinion is going to say?
MR. FRANKLIN: I think the opinion could be
as it was in Malesko: There is no Bivens action because
there are alternative remedies. We think that holding
as in Malesko would apply everywhere. Everybody has --
every State has a negligence cause of action. And I
think one thing that crystallized the argument for me is
the colloquy between Justice Scalia and -- and my
friend, where I think there was an admission that what
they are actually seeking is a blanket cause of action
to account for any possible instance in which there is
an inadequate remedy.
I think it goes even further. I think
they're asking for a blanket cause of action if somebody
can hypothesize an interest, an issue, and even further
than that, even if we can't hypothesize it, maybe
somewhere along the line, something might happen. We
think that's a -- flipping, turning Bivens on its head.
Bivens is a narrow remedy that is only allowed when it
is necessary. If those circumstances arise, they can be
dealt with at that time.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you know if any of
these Bivens claims have been pled in the alternative;
that is, a Bivens remedy, but alternatively State law?
MR. FRANKLIN: Yes, that does happen, Your
Honor. Yes. And it happens I think relatively
frequently. But in these circumstances, we would
expect, if the Court rules our way, that there would be
in fact resort to what are not only adequate, but
superior, State law remedies and that Bivens would then
be reserved for another day if something happened that
might implicate it.
If there are no further questions --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there diversity in
this case?
MR. FRANKLIN: There may be. I think -- I
think he alleged that there was. We would agree with
the other side that the domicile of a -- of a prisoner
is, at least in the circuits, determined by where the
prisoner had been before they were in prison, and I
think this particular prisoner had been somewhere other
than California. So, probably. I can't -- I can't say
about the -- the amount in controversy, but probably.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, you said there was a
statute of limitations problem with starting new.
MR. FRANKLIN: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about, if there is
diversity --
MR. FRANKLIN: Well, the case was dismissed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- allowing an amendment?
MR. FRANKLIN: There's no -- the case was
dismissed, Your Honor, and it was appealed only on the
ground of a Bivens claim. So, if that is rejected,
there is no more case. There's nothing to amend.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:59 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
56:7 15:2 20:14 allegation 29:17 12:16 ascertain 17:16
50:6 51:1 alleged 55:11 10:18,19 15:7 12:2 33:17
34:1,2 addresses 25:21 alleging 14:8 answers 8:7 36:5,12 37:25
adequacy 12:15 19:2 33:24 39:7 44:19 49:25
23:22 allowed 19:10 17:17 asks 47:13
4:22 5:12,13 allowing 21:20 APPEARAN... assaults 49:21
11:13 12:10,20 allows 3:25 appears 5:18 assertion 40:11
11:1 20:8 14:20 15:5 alternative 3:13 appellate 28:20 47:13
51:5 16:12 17:6 3:22 4:23 5:12 applied 19:18 Assistant 1:17
18:19 20:5,25 6:2 9:6 12:21 35:20 51:13 assume 26:8
12:4,5 25:21 26:6 21:23 22:18,22 51:12 attack 43:15
15:11,12 31:13,16,18 23:10 24:1,7 apply 6:21 13:6 attacked 43:7
18:3 37:6 38:25 24:10,24 25:9 13:13 26:9 attacks 42:22
24:16 39:4,6 41:24 25:10,19,21 35:18 41:9 43:1
28:6,7 55:3 39:11 41:21 44:10 54:4 attempted 50:21
adequately 46:20,22 54:3 approach 22:21 51:1
34:14 31:22 54:22 32:5 attention 45:10
admission 54:8 alternatively appropriate attorney 32:6
38:5,24 admit 28:17 22:19 54:23 19:5 34:13 attorneys 8:5
41:23,24 adopt 20:24 amend 56:3 37:2 40:2 authority 16:24
26:20 29:9 amended 4:11 41:13 52:8 authorized 3:12
47:7,20 52:12 amending 50:23 area 17:3 availability 13:3
49:21,25 adopted 9:5 amendment arguably 9:3 23:9,10,21
53:24 affidavit 14:24 6:10 7:23 14:8 argue 16:6 24:2
affirm 52:19 15:9,12,17,19 50:16 available 11:14
20:8 agency 45:13 27:1,24 30:22 43:4 28:3 29:3,6,12
25:2 ago 32:23 35:14 32:19 42:3,9 argument 1:12 30:24 34:18
47:25 agree 22:5 24:12 42:14,16,20 2:2,5,9,12 3:3 35:2 44:15
50:8 55:11 53:9 55:24 3:6 13:11,12 46:20 47:20,23
45:3,4 Alba 13:24 amount 39:12 41:7 47:2 29:13 49:6
50:12 14:15,25,25 39:12 48:22 50:21 52:22 a.m 1:13 3:2
19:6 33:9 46:3,18,24 23:1 25:15 43:4 44:3,21 18:2
51:24 47:8,11,25 28:7,13,18 45:1,11,14,18 chance 28:17
3:7 18:12 BOP 26:23 40:6 call 19:17 32:1 19:2,19,23 40:4,15,24
52:23 40:18,21 called 16:14 23:13 25:6 41:6,9 43:21
15:2 BREYER 29:11 cap 43:25 44:10 43:25 44:12 47:16,24 48:3
29:18 29:15,17,22 caps 43:22 47:21 46:12 48:15 52:20,24
30:9,15,18 care 8:1,8,16 casts 53:4 56:4
42:7,12 35:13,18,24 cares 9:14 45:19 category 5:1 circuit 6:5 13:24
38:8 4:1,7,9 5:3 cause 6:7,7 8:24 52:19
24:19 brief 6:17 22:11 25:8,10 39:20 23:6 24:16 circuit-by-circ...
28:18 39:24 39:21,21 44:17 29:1,3,4 32:14 21:9
5:2,4 38:24 39:3 case 3:4,24 4:3 52:16 53:19 circumstances
8:3,4,10 40:7 53:20 4:15,24 5:16 54:5,9,13 11:25 13:13
9:22,25 bringing 42:9 6:1 8:9,10,11 caused 33:14 14:13 19:1
brings 29:4 8:20 9:21,23 53:15 54:19 55:1
11:8,14 30:21 10:21 11:9 causes 47:7 cited 38:20
12:4 brought 9:17,24 12:8,12,17,20 49:21 53:17,17 civil 20:8 38:21
13:8,10 9:25 10:1,9,16 13:3,4,16,19 cautiously 17:3 claim 5:4 9:17
16:21 33:22 13:24 14:17 certain 32:17 9:18,25 10:2
18:3,18 burden 17:15,20 16:7,10,13,18 34:4 46:25 10:11 11:24
20:9 21:5 38:22,23 39:5 17:5,8,9,19 certainly 11:19 12:7 13:20
39:9,15,20 18:5 20:17,23 16:19 25:17 14:9 21:10
23:4,25 burdens 39:19 20:25 21:4,17 29:6 30:25 23:18 26:4,5
25:7,7 Bush 16:13 21:18,22 22:25 37:14 41:14 26:12,13,13,25
26:25 buy 53:6 26:8 29:5,11 42:4 26:25 27:1,1
28:2,6,25 29:14 30:7 certainty 29:7 29:18 30:4,11
37:3
38:5,24 C 2:1 3:1 34:3,22 35:7,9 15:9 16:2,10 33:19,19,22
39:25 17:14 contracted 17:9,21,22,23 curious 30:3
41:12 complex 38:13 26:10,22,22 17:23 18:3,15 curtailed 44:13
concede 29:2 contractor 3:19 19:16 21:19
30:23 35:2 4:17 22:20 23:16,24 D
concerned 9:23 contractors 4:22 23:24 24:1,15 D 3:1
6:24,24 condition 53:15 51:4,8,13 25:13,16,20,24 damages 24:17
10:9,16 conduct 15:16 controversy 27:18,19 28:18
27:8,10
23:14
55:17 28:20,23 29:8 27:24 46:3
28:5,9,10 confidence 42:1 convincing 29:9 35:4,8
29:20
33:8 4:13,18,25 5:4 corporation 38:1,15,16,20 day 55:5
53:11 5:8 13:15 9:20 18:23 39:10 40:19,24 deal 50:19,22
16:16,17 17:11 19:8 48:8 41:3 42:1,4,25 dealing 51:19
18:17 50:16,21 51:1 21:21 26:23 45:11,16,19
28:12
correct 6:17 46:1,14,16,22 death 29:25
39:4 51:20,21,23 34:9 52:25 46:23 47:20 31:19
53:19 correctional 48:11 50:10 decades 3:10
Congress's costs 48:13 55:2 28:20
32:7 13:14 20:10 39:16 49:14 defendant 31:5
Constitution country 23:2 covered 28:16 defense 10:5
constitutional 44:16 craft 21:19 19:18,19,21
44:25 46:23 court 1:1,12 3:9 creates 20:3 degree 22:3
constitutionally 5:22 6:1,5,8 18:21 deliberate 10:12
14:10
37:4 48:21 14:25 15:1 curiae 1:19 2:8 4:25 29:24,25
44:18 45:9 14:8 15:9,12 essentially 36:22 expressly 4:25
dismissal 18:1,2 21:18 27:1,24 53:11 extension 18:17
28:13 8:11 38:16 42:3,9,14,16 19:25 extra 40:23
55:23 56:1 42:19 53:9 ET 1:3,6 extraordinary
12:17 18:7 22:23 evaluate 31:6 44:20
district 8:9 16:8 45:18 16:19
38:15,16,20 else's 16:7 exactly 17:22 40:21,22,24
55:22 emerging 4:1 example 6:21 21:13 45:2
25:2 doctors 28:11 18:1,23 45:2,3 29:25 30:7 factor 3:14
35:4 35:19 45:6,7 38:15 42:8,12 12:16,17
48:16 doctrine 16:21 employee 20:6,6 42:22 factors 3:20
49:11,23 16:22 20:7 25:3 46:3 exception 47:20 11:16,18 18:20
domicile 55:12 4:9,14,16,17 excluded 5:1 failed 31:15
9:11,15 due 23:13,19 50:19,20 51:9 36:14 42:10 fair 46:13,16
44:3 duplicative 9:2 51:11,13 43:8 45:18,24 48:10
49:9,24 duty 5:19,22 employer 48:22 51:6,10,13 fairly 40:11
38:12,12 ends 47:25 52:2,6 faith 19:10,12
12:6 19:11 enforcement exist 37:3 39:9 20:13
27:5,5 E 50:11 46:11 50:9 fall 35:21 39:16
46:8,12 E 2:1 3:1,1 entire 37:4 42:3 existed 38:19 39:16
earlier 20:15 entirely 6:3 existence 21:9 false 34:8
26:11,16 15:21 entitled 32:8 expect 41:4,6 42:5 44:19
eats 30:1 entity 45:17 44:14 47:21 49:11,11,23
17:9 equal 15:4 50:3 55:2 Federal 4:2,9
47:1 47:10 ESQ 1:15,17,21 explained 41:11 7:22 8:5,6 9:7
22:10,11 4:6 6:12 7:2,5 38:3 41:14,18 23:12 24:11
26:9 forward 8:20 7:12,17 12:2 guidance 28:21 26:15 27:4
29:4
34:2 four 30:21 19:6 26:24 H 30:6,14 31:8
36:10,10 Franklin 1:15 41:20 45:22 hand 17:10 31:12,25 32:4
39:3 2:3,13 3:5,6,8 46:1,6,8 51:3 handcuffs 33:13 33:2,23 34:10
44:23,24 4:5,7 5:14,24 54:21 55:8,18 handle 34:24 35:23 36:4
45:3,3,6 6:12,16 7:4,8 55:21,24 handled 50:13 37:10,18 38:11
48:3,10 7:15,20 8:7,14 give 8:4 9:13 happen 5:23 39:1,7 40:12
8:21 9:1,4,10 11:18 25:23 20:15 37:7 40:19 41:14,18
52:7 9:13,15 10:6,7 26:5 30:9 54:16,24 41:25 42:10,21
10:13,18 11:15 31:16 32:2 happened 55:5 43:8 44:2
14:6,25 15:13 42:7 happenstance 47:12 48:25
36:21 33:17 50:5 gives 3:20 23:7 49:22 56:1
52:6 52:21,22,24 29:25 31:7,23 harder 12:23 Honor's 50:7
37:20 39:14 goes 7:24 54:12 54:17 31:13
49:22 frequently 55:1 going 8:2 10:3 healed 28:15 hypothesize
friend 40:8 54:8 14:7,23 15:8 33:10 54:14,15
23:5 20:10 53:7,25 heightened 11:21 20:22
33:24 further 12:24 good 5:15 19:10 24:13 21:1,21 26:8
39:8 20:10 25:15 19:12,17,19,20 held 6:8 8:9 26:16,18 30:10
48:5 52:18 54:12,14 20:12 12:11 27:23
grafting 19:23 hold 7:3,5 37:15 33:11
7:1 52:19 19:25 20:2,11
49:3 ground 12:7 54:3 20:12,16 21:2
instance 5:24 9:9,11,14 10:6 34:8,12 42:7 31:23 32:22
39:18 54:10 12:1,2 13:10 keep 42:19 34:14,15,17
50:6 intentional 15:14,22,25 8:22 9:2,9,11 43:23 44:11,13
54:14 21:7,25 22:7 20:19 35:21 47:14,18 49:15
interests 26:11 25:12,25 26:12 kinds 24:9 50:4,13 52:8
47:19 28:19 28:4 29:11,15 30:12,18 31:5 55:4
22:23 27:3 33:3,5,16 34:8 known 41:17 LEE 1:6
49:1,3 53:21 35:18,24 36:2 lesser 20:1
12:22 16:8,9 17:24 39:2,23 40:4 lack 8:11 18:25 liability 4:3 8:2
19:3 18:5,6,7 24:14 40:15,24,24 19:8 20:11 8:3 9:18 10:11
49:9 29:8 43:22 41:6,9,17,20 lacked 3:16 10:14 18:25
46:18 54:14 42:7,12,17 lacking 19:7 33:21 42:24
10:1 J 43:21 44:5,9 40:16,17 50:19
25:3,10 jailors 5:19,23 45:22 46:1,6,8 larger 20:3 liable 34:23 43:9
JOHN 1:21 2:10 47:1,5,16,24 late 8:14 43:17 49:8,20
41:4,12 27:15 48:3,15 49:5 Laughter 33:7 50:23
JONATHAN 49:17 51:3 37:16,19,22 lie 13:16
48:4 1:15 2:3,13 3:6 52:20,24 53:23 44:7 limit 21:15
52:22 54:7,21 55:8 law 3:25 4:11,12 36:13,15
40:21 judges 17:15 56:4 6:13,17,20,21 limitations 8:13
13:9 21:24 20:5,16 21:16 live 31:16
22:12,14 Justice 1:18 3:3 Kagan 5:14 6:11 23:11,17,21,23 22:13,16 25:20
28:15 3:8,21 4:6 5:14 10:6,8,14 24:9 27:10,25 look 4:3 23:14
53:12 6:11,12 7:2,5 11:10 14:4 28:6,9,12 23:16,21,22
matter 1:11 9:16 45:24 note 42:21 51:18 overlap 22:1,4,8
48:23 10:3 13:15 Mississippi 6:13 53:18
25:23 mattered 45:15 mistreatment notwithstandi...page 2:2 39:24
48:15 matters 41:3 7:18 13:2 paid 45:9
19:18 34:12 41:16 31:18 46:10
22:13 24:23 16:21 54:18 obviously 48:6 particular 12:4
52:4 means 3:13 16:3 28:2 offending 39:25 33:13 44:1
measure 36:9 28:16 offer 38:14 parts 33:24
7:21 8:17 mechanism 17:10 19:5 officer 25:3,11 48:9
9:5 12:14 13:12 23:23 25:14 26:18 40:1,8 pay 48:19,24
17:7,23 mechanisms 54:19 41:12 paying 47:25
23:24 17:25
41:3
19:4
54:2
30:23 needs 14:11 19:4 oh 8:1 29:16 35:10
33:19 34:6,20 negligence 5:20 30:14 44:8 perform 17:13
35:19 43:21,25 10:16 12:23 once 26:19 18:19
43:20 mere 27:21 28:7 30:2 32:2 operating 46:2 person 16:1
merit 13:18 33:21 35:16 opinion 37:13 29:24 31:21
53:11 40:20 53:25 32:21 38:3
28:10
33:19 45:15
43:22 Minneci 1:3 3:4 negligently oral 1:11 2:2,5,9 2:14 3:7,18
minutes 44:16 32:21 53:16 3:6 18:11 4:16 18:13
misconceives 18:21 19:5 ordinarily 32:23 45:1 52:23
misimpression new 6:21 26:2 30:3,4 35:8 53:22
43:17,19 misquoting 55:19 ought 13:16 piling 9:7
41:17 Ninth 6:5 52:19 41:22 pin 11:12
39:2 predict 36:7 principle 9:6 16:18 27:23 punishment
preference 7:1 16:1 17:16 pro 11:5 14:23 purpose 51:4
27:14,15,17 33:25 37:7 55:16,17 50:18
29:20 30:6,14 41:10,11 49:6 14:23 16:16,17 puzzle 10:15
32:4,16 33:2,8 7:22 13:17 procedural 14:2 qualified 10:5
31:19 36:4,14,17,23 27:22 35:3 23:17 20:12
35:12 37:1,10,12,17 40:5 42:9,15 process 23:13,16 question 8:6
45:2 37:23 38:7,11 42:19,23,23 23:19 10:18 12:1
51:22 39:1,7 40:3,12 43:1,6,15 procure 14:14 15:22 20:15
40:19 41:8,14 44:24 49:7,7 procured 27:10 22:1,25 27:19
31:13 45:24 46:5,7 7:18 11:1,5 property 23:15 47:13 48:8
46:13 47:4,12 12:25 17:18 23:15 questions 50:4
13:1 prejudice 18:2 36:10 proposing 21:8 quote 39:12,25
41:21 premise 12:11 prisoner's 22:12 propounded 40:1,2,5,16
17:21 27:20 protect 43:14
54:10 22:16 25:8 10:24 26:1,3 prove 33:21 R 3:1
presumably private 3:18 23:18 24:22 25:1,5 27:7
15:23 44:10 53:4 7:6 11:2 18:22 provided 24:7 24:20 25:24
presume 15:21 19:7,8 20:6,17 42:2 47:22 reach 44:19
51:23 18:18 49:14 26:23 39:24 22:13 read 32:9
18:11 pre-empt 4:18 41:10,11 45:10 province 24:18 real 17:6 25:18
4:10,13 20:9 49:1 50:22,24 public 45:13,17 12:19 15:23
46:25 relief 22:14 23:9 52:11 53:17,19 23:4 27:13 35:13
29:3 remainder 18:8 render 14:18 44:5,9 47:1,5 15:25
46:24 remaining 44:16 renders 49:20 47:16,24 48:3 second 8:24
52:16 52:21 repeat 35:25 48:15 52:20 11:17 28:2
52:7 repleading 18:2 roving 52:13 section 10:24
52:22 4:20,23 5:2 6:3 representation rule 4:1,5,7,8 40:20
10:5 20:5 21:20 requirement 26:20 41:7 seek 21:3
19:16,17 22:2,25 23:22 14:2,5 42:8,13,19 seeking 54:9
25:7 24:1,3,10 27:2 requires 13:18 49:3 sees 34:2
28:3,5,21 29:5 reserved 55:5 rules 10:20 11:3 33:18 36:6
39:11 40:21,23 respect 26:2 runs 26:14 separation 24:8
23:18 46:10,17 54:3 41:19 S 1:15 2:1,3,13 14:11 19:4
8:10,11 9:6,7 3:15 18:22 savvy 11:5 40:17 41:10,11
18:18,20 19:5 responses 19:14 31:23,24 36:18 Shah 1:17 2:6
51:18 24:24 25:4,7,9 Richmond 1:21 38:22 40:18 23:12 24:6,11
51:23 34:13,13,19 44:25 46:6 37:14 38:22 show 38:1,4,9,24
46:15,19,21 15:6,14 18:9 school 32:22 significant 44:3
standard 10:11 53:10 54:5,23 52:16 talking 14:9,10
42:25 43:2,3 stated 53:8 14:13 36:8,8 43:6
44:21 standpoint 27:7 33:1 suggesting 30:10 42:1
27:8 states 1:1,12,19 36:23 telling 8:1
35:11 starting 55:19 41:24 42:1,2 40:13 44:17 35:22 42:23
48:13 starvation 35:15 42:17 51:10,11 48:12 51:1 48:16 49:4
starved 30:8 51:14 suggests 45:19 test 43:19
52:13 53:2 State's 13:25 suing 18:22 20:5 Thank 18:9
9:16 state 3:25 4:4 State-run 26:3 superior 6:10 theory 10:8 24:5
42:5 51:2 5:17,21 6:6,21 status 3:18 7:21 9:18 10:2 24:6,8,9 37:25
7:10,12,13 statute 8:13,22 55:4 thing 29:8 35:16
30:7 12:6,10,15 stay 17:9 18:3 suppose 3:24 things 14:20
13:17,20 14:19 step 11:17 51:21 5:14,16 25:25 18:4 36:4
33:11 22:22 23:1,2,2 strong 26:18 5:22 28:18 13:10,16 14:17
52:12 23:7,11,17,21 stuck 48:21 36:7 15:22 16:5,7
21:7,25 25:13,25 26:6 18:24 20:7 20:21 17:8 18:6 20:2
28:4 26:13,19 27:2 49:19 surprised 37:17 20:3,9,10,24
36:12,15 27:10,25 28:3 subjective 19:23 surprising 37:21 21:4 22:6,6,9
28:4,6,9 29:1,3 19:24 survivor 3:25 22:10,13,16,17
52:3,10 39:6 41:21 sue 9:20 48:18 T 2:1,1 33:23 34:4,16
30:18 43:23 44:11,13 33:9 36:9 39:20 36:5 37:1,12
44:14 46:20,25 suffers 27:25 50:7,10 51:20 37:24 38:11
45:17 try 10:19 39:11 valid 29:18 1:15,18 34:6 35:21
47:8 trying 10:15 42:13,19 wasn't 17:7,20 37:14,18
48:10 39:3 value 44:14 17:24 18:5,6 Wow 37:11
49:3,5 Tuesday 1:9 variety 42:3 33:22 write 37:13
50:4 turn 13:8 17:10 various 17:25 way 8:14 10:5 written 10:25
51:17 22:14 27:21 18:4 14:3,6 21:2
54:1,3,6,8 42:6 44:17 vast 21:18 28:23 32:5 X
turning 54:17 versed 48:25 33:14 50:18 x 1:2,7
turns 21:24 versus 10:12 55:2
two 7:17 9:4 viable 12:5,6 well-established years 8:15 32:23
30:24 39:7 46:11,22 view 13:8 34:14 weren't 5:15
1:9
47:7 49:10 37:2 38:12 48:23
8:14
1:5 3:4
vindicated 28:6 5:8 6:22 11:1
50:4 28:9,11 20:8 50:15,18
52:5 violate 6:9 15:17 51:5,8
1714 38:20
violation 14:9 We'll 3:3
13:1 15:7 1983 6:25 7:14
29:22 10:24 16:20
44:8 17:18
5:12 42:3 47:9 44:19 48:24
9:17 Understood Virginia 1:21 51:19 2
18:25 31:12 virtually 4:23 we've 12:13 2007 38:15
26:5 27:3 undisputed 4:24 8:18 44:18 51:25
12:9 20:18 voluntarily 9:20 Wilkie 12:14 2011 1:9
32:23 United 1:1,12,19 39:10 52:2
41:22,24 2:7 18:12 51:9 willy-nilly 11:9
51:11,14 want 11:18 16:6 wise 42:4 3
49:19,19 unlawful 23:15 16:6 30:12,18 word 22:20 3 2:4
unusual 23:5,6 53:7,23 34:6,20 42:5 5
41:15 53:14 wants 16:16 worry 8:2 38:10 52 2:14
34:13 v 1:5 3:4 16:13 49:6,18 11:23 17:3
Washington 1:8 9
44:21 19:17 21:2
35:10
