IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ESTHER KIOBEL, INDIVIDUALLY AND ON:
BEHALF OF HER LATE HUSBAND, :
DR. BARINEM KIOBEL, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 10-1491
v. :
ROYAL DUTCH PETROLEUM CO., ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, October 1, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAUL L. HOFFMAN, ESQ., Venice, California; on
behalf of Petitioners.
KATHLEEN M. SULLIVAN, ESQ., New York, New York; on
behalf of Respondents.
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice; Washington, D.C.; for United
States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PAUL L. HOFFMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
KATHLEEN M. SULLIVAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 22
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae, 40
supporting the Respondents
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL L. HOFFMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this term in Case 10-1491, Kiobel v. Royal Dutch
Petroleum.
Mr. Hoffman?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL L. HOFFMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. HOFFMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The plaintiffs in this case received asylum
in the United States because of the human rights
violations alleged in the complaint. They sued the
defendants for their role in these human rights
violations in U.S. courts because the defendants are
here and subject to the general personal jurisdiction of
our courts.
There's nothing unusual about suing a
tortfeasor in our --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May -- may I ask you
about the statement you just made? Personal
jurisdiction was raised as a defense, right?
MR. HOFFMAN: Personal jurisdiction was
raised as an affirmative defense, but not raised in a
motion to dismiss.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so your position is
it was waived?
MR. HOFFMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it was not
adjudicated. Is there --
MR. HOFFMAN: It was not adjudicated in this
case. Our position, it was waived when it was not
raised in a Rule 12 motion.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What effects that
commenced in the United States or that are closely
related to the United States exist between what happened
here and what happened in Nigeria?
MR. HOFFMAN: The -- the only connection
between the events in Nigeria and the United States is
that the plaintiffs are now living in the United States
and have asylum because of those events, and the
defendants are here. There's no other connection
between the events that took place in the -- in Nigeria
and the forum. The -- the basis for suing the
defendants here was because they are here and because it
was possible to get jurisdiction.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And just to make it
clear --
MR. HOFFMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- it's your
position -- and I believe it's the position of the
United States; I'm not sure -- that if a U.S.
corporation commits an international law violation in
the United States, that U.S. corporation can be sued in
any court in the world?
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it is -- it is possible
that other countries would assert jurisdiction. I think
that, generally speaking -- and it might well have been
the case in this case had the issues been raised -- most
of the time, alternative doctrines like the requirement
of personal jurisdiction, or the requirement -- or forum
non conveniens or other doctrines would -- would have
those cases litigated in other places.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then -- but the way I
stated the hypothetical, or the proposition, that is
your beginning proposition -- although there might be
some defenses. But as a beginning matter, that they can
be sued in any country in any court in the world.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I think it would depend
on what the events were and what the claims were and --
and what the law in that jurisdiction was.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, we assume --
MR. HOFFMAN: I think that this -- sorry.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- we assume a violation
of international law --
MR. HOFFMAN: Okay.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- as part of the
hypothetical.
MR. HOFFMAN: Yeah. Well, I think that
if -- if, in fact, the U.S. corporation committed a
violation of a universal jurisdiction norm, for example,
as we believe these norms are in this case, there are
many jurisdictions in which U.S. corporations could be
-- could be sued.
In fact, in the United Kingdom and -- and
the Netherlands, I believe their juris -- their
provisions enforcing the international criminal court
might --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose, if you
have -- I suppose, if you have, as I think there
probably is in this case, a number of plaintiffs, they
can sue in a number of different countries, right? Some
will sue in the United States, others in the United
Kingdom, others in the Netherlands?
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it -- it is possible
that the plaintiffs could have sued in other places.
They sued here because this is where they live. This is
their adopted homeland because of that.
The United States, under international law,
clearly has jurisdiction to adjudicate claims between
parties properly before them.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there some -- is there
some super body that decides what constitutes a
violation of the particular norms of international law?
That is to say, these other countries that have
jurisdiction, they decide for themselves, don't they,
what -- whether there's been a violation of the
international norm or not?
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, if -- if there are
proceedings with respect to those norms or violations,
yes, they do.
I mean in domestic courts, there are
international tribunals that have a limited
jurisdiction, and they decide. There are some ad hoc
tribunals that decide other cases. And the national --
national courts have always been engines of decision
making on -- on international law.
In fact, that's the foundation of this -- of
this statute comes from the founders' desire to have
Federal courts decide what law of nations claims --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure, national courts have
been the deciders when -- when the violation occurs
within the nation. But to give national courts
elsewhere the power to determine whether a United States
corporation in the United States has violated a norm of
international law is something else, it seems to me.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it's -- it's unlikely
that -- that that would come up, because the suit could
be brought in the United States. It's also unlikely,
because, based on most forum non conveniens doctrines,
the suit would be heard here, because --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You didn't mention
exhaustion of administrative remedies.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, there is the possibility
of exhaustion of local remedies. I know the European
Union brief suggests that that's part of the
international law package that one has to accept. And
this Court in Sosa did say that it would consider an
exhaustion of local remedies doctrine if that was the
case.
And, of course, exhaustion of local remedies
would be an additional safeguard against the issue that
Justice Kennedy and Justice --
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose a case like this is
brought in the United States and the State Department
tells the district court that allowing this case to go
forward will have a very deleterious effect on U.S.
foreign policy and on the welfare of U.S. -- U.S.
citizens abroad.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I think there --
JUSTICE ALITO: The district court says:
"Well, there's nothing I can do about it. This case is
just going to forward." That's your position?
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, no, not at all. I mean,
I think --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what would happen in
that situation?
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I think the political
question doctrine would clearly apply, and -- and -- and
a court would decide whether to go forward. If the
United States believed that -- that the case should be
dismissed, as I understand the U.S. position in past
cases like Doe v. Exxon, is that -- that there should be
interlocutory appeal from -- from a denial of a
political question doctrine decision to go forward in
light of that.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if a district court
won't certify a question for interlocutory appeal?
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, but I think what the
U.S. position is, and I think -- I think it would -- I
assume it would be accepted -- is that if the United
States says going forward at all raises those questions,
that it would be able to go up on a Cohen v. --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you know, Justice
Alito can protect his own hypothetical, but it seems to
me you're walking away from it. The question as I
understood it assumed that there is a violation of
international law.
MR. HOFFMAN: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that proceeding with
this particular case will, because of some other
reasons --
MR. HOFFMAN: Right --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- involve the United
States or its citizens living abroad in serious
complications with a foreign Government. That's not a
political question.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it could be.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: There's political
consequences, but that's the whole point.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: There's -- there's -- you
can't cite a case -- but maybe you can, please do if you
can -- that this is part of the political question
doctrine.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I think that in
Corrie v. Caterpillar, for example, there were alleged
human rights violations, and the United States said that
because U.S. aid was involved in providing the
bulldozers that were involved in that alleged human
rights violation, that the court should dismiss on
political question grounds, and the courts did dismiss
on political question grounds.
JUSTICE BREYER: Couldn't you just say if --
would we have the power to say, looking at Sosa and the
principles that narrow considerably the subject matter
of this statute, to add a requirement that if the State
Department says that it interferes with foreign
relations it doesn't fall within the statute, can't
bring it?
MR. HOFFMAN: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: That would get rid of this
problem, wouldn't it?
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, that would get rid of
the problem. I think that in truth, the -- the way the
political question doctrine would work would probably
end up being the same when it's that kind of rule.
JUSTICE BREYER: It would be the same thing.
By the way, did we sign the torture treaty?
MR. HOFFMAN: Yes. We've ratified --
JUSTICE BREYER: We've signed the torture
treaty.
MR. HOFFMAN: We've ratified --
JUSTICE BREYER: The torture treaty does
provide for -- for what is it called, universal
jurisdiction?
MR. HOFFMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, if in fact
a corporation in the United States, in cahoots with the
Government or something, should do the unusual thing of
violating the torture treaty, Tasmania or any country in
the world that signed the torture treaty would have
jurisdiction under that treaty to proceed, is that
right?
MR. HOFFMAN: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: So the situation that we're
talking about already is in existence.
MR. HOFFMAN: That's right. I mean, there's
nothing that the Court would do in this case that would
change --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if it was the
corporation, it wouldn't fall under the torture --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's -- no, the
torture treaty says nothing about corporations.
MR. HOFFMAN: Right. I mean, that's
different from the ICC.
But the -- the -- yes, Justice.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, there is the
amicus brief from the European Commission.
MR. HOFFMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And it provides for a
very simple rule. Please explain to me what's wrong
with it. It basically says you have to borrow both the
substantive and procedural international law norms; that
those norms do permit these foreign-cubed cases only so
long as either, it appears to me, the defendant is a
citizen of the country, the acts occurred within that
country, or the alien has exhausted both domestic and
international avenues for relief, a sort of forum by
necessity, which apparently most countries have,
including the ones who have submitted amici arguing --
MR. HOFFMAN: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- different points,
like England and The Netherlands.
MR. HOFFMAN: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It seems to me like a
fairly simple set of rules clearly defined and limiting
the application of this statute in a way that sort of
makes sense.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's wrong with the
rule?
MR. HOFFMAN: I don't think there is a lot
wrong with the rule, actually. In a foreign-cubed kind
of case, it seems to me the EU position is, number one,
that there is universal jurisdiction, no matter whether
you consider the Federal Commonwealth cause of action
prescriptive or not. And so, the countries of the world
have agreed that all states have an interest in
enforcing these fundamental norms and that's part of
international law. And that -- that what goes with that
are limits of exhaustion of remedies under international
law, which guard -- safeguards the interests of third
states before the United States can --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So answer me why is this
not the case where on the facts there has been a failure
to exhaust.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I think that we would --
we would -- there's no record, obviously, about that.
And one of the arguments we would make about exhaustion,
I believe, is that it would have been futile to exhaust
under international law -- under international law
standards.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Might be -- Nigeria is
one question, but other potential forums are the U.K.
and the Netherlands.
MR. HOFFMAN: Right. And I think that we --
you know, we have -- if there was an exhaustion of local
remedies requirement, then we would have to see if we
could satisfy that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think -- haven't both
of those nations said they would not entertain this
case?
MR. HOFFMAN: It's not clear. I mean, in
fact, the -- you know, there is a recent Dutch decision
that goes perhaps farther than the Alien Tort Statute,
the Al Brujaj case.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you would agree, Mr.
Hoffman, that if there were an exhaustion requirement,
it would not apply only to Nigeria, but also to the
Netherlands and to the U.K.?
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I mean, it depends on
how the Court frames it. I mean, there's the exhaustion
requirement under the Torture Victim Protection Act,
there are other arguments about what that looks like
under international law. I mean, I think that -- to
follow up on Justice Sotomayor's point, I think that if
that's deemed by the Court to be a requirement of
international law, then international law rules on
exhaustion should apply, and we would either be able to
satisfy them or not or take whatever position we would
take with respect to that.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the U.K. -- the U.K.
and the Netherlands, I -- well, I'll ask you. Do you
disagree that those are fair judicial systems where a
plaintiff can get a fair shake?
MR. HOFFMAN: Yeah. No, I don't think that
anybody disputes that -- that the legal systems in the
Netherlands or the United Kingdom are fair. I mean,
they obviously are.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if that's so, then
what does this case -- why does this case belong in the
courts of the United States --
MR. HOFFMAN: Well --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- when it has nothing to do
with the United States other than the fact that a
subsidiary of the defendant has a big operation here?
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it -- it -- from our
standpoint it's here, the way I started the argument,
really, which is that our clients are here, they're
here. Their -- personal jurisdiction has not been
contested and no one made a forum non conveniens motion
in this particular case. Now, there was a forum non
conveniens motion in a companion case. So -- but I
think that that's a problem that goes more toward --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And what happened to
that?
MR. HOFFMAN: It -- the Second Circuit
overturned the district court on forum non conveniens.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Overturned it which way?
MR. HOFFMAN: It said that the case -- that
the Wiwa case could proceed and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it rejected the forum
non conveniens.
MR. HOFFMAN: Rejected forum non conveniens
in that case. And I know that the United States brief
believes that that was wrongly decided. But from our
standpoint, the -- if we're talking about the way that
the ATS should be structured, our belief is that forum
non conveniens, generally speaking, is going to deal
with the problem -- the problems that the Court has
raised. If -- if the Court believes that the Wiwa
decision was wrong or that that doctrine's wrong, that
doctrine should be changed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you a question
about your reliance on the Alien Tort Statute, but if
your theory is that this is a violation of a universal
norm, and that Federal common law makes it a claim
available in the United States, now there is 1331
general Federal question jurisdiction.
Couldn't you have said, never mind the Alien
Tort Statute, I'm suing under 1331 Federal question
jurisdiction, and I have got the -- the claim for relief
is the U.S. common law implementing the international
law?
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I think this Court in
Sosa said that its analysis did not necessarily apply to
1331, and I think that's because of the history of 1350.
The history of 1350, as the historians'
brief lays out, is that the Founders believed that
certain law of nations norms could be implemented by
common law tort actions. And this Court in Sosa found
that without further congressional action, the courts of
the United States would be available to enforce norms
that were similar to those norms.
And in fact, the norms that the Founders
were familiar with were very similar in kind to the
universal jurisdiction norms that Justice Sotomayor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but -- but general --
general common law was not considered to be Federal law,
neither Federal law nor state law. If that were so,
every tort action, which in those days were decided
under -- under a general law that was up there in the
sky, would have been a Federal -- a Federal claim.
MR. HOFFMAN: But there were -- there was
certain -- there were certain norms that were believed
to be part of the law of nations, including piracy and
attacks on ambassadors, and they were governed by
universal standards.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Common law. It's general
common law.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, but I think this Court
found in Sosa that that -- that that part of common law
at the time has become customary international law, and
that -- that the courts of this country have not lost
their ability to enforce the same kinds of law of
nations norms as the Founders wanted to be -- to enforce
in the Alien Tort Statute in the context of universal
human rights norms.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that isn't the issue.
The issue is whether when they do so they are enforcing
Federal law or not.
MR. HOFFMAN: I think this Court said that
it's the Federal common law within one of the exceptions
to Erie and -- and I think this Court, right after Erie,
found that there were enclaves of Federal law, one of
them being the area of foreign relations, where Federal
common law should be viewed as Federal --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that answer would
apply if you were answering Justice Ginsburg's question
in the affirmative by saying that there is 1331
jurisdiction, but you need not go so far, given Sosa.
MR. HOFFMAN: We don't. We don't, and I
think the distinction is that in Sosa and in the Alien
Tort Statute the statute itself speaks about torts.
This Court found, based on the history and
intent of the Congress, that there was no reason to wait
for any congressional authorization to go forward on
those claims, and -- and therefore it was available to
bring claims. So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, maybe they had --
MR. HOFFMAN: -- we're not taking the
position that 1331 --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- maybe they had to
provide that in 1789 because there was no -- there was
no general Federal question jurisdiction existing at the
time.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it could be, but what
seems more obvious about the reason for the Alien Tort
Statute was to make sure that there -- there was a
Federal court available to litigate law of nations
claims that could have been litigated in state court,
just as these claims could be litigated in State court.
And -- and in fact, one of the -- and, also,
in answer to the Respondents' claims about
extraterritoriality, if one imagines -- under the
Respondents' theory, you could -- a French ambassador
could be attacked by a Frenchman in Pennsylvania and
have Alien Tort Statute jurisdiction and a claim for
relief. If a U.S. citizen attacked the French
ambassador on foreign soil, he wouldn't have an Alien
Tort Statute claim; he would be sent to the state courts
if he could -- the state courts were open, which is
exactly the opposite of the purpose of the Alien Tort
Statute, the fundamental known purpose of the Alien Tort
Statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You point out, I think,
an anomaly. If the victim is a United States citizen --
you say the only ties here are that the victims got
asylum in the United States, so they are here. But
someone who is here all the time, someone who is a
citizen of the United States, but is abroad and is a
victim of one of these atrocities, there would be no
suit for such a person.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, the -- the Congress
provided for some jurisdiction in the Torture Victim
Protection Act.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but under the Alien
Tort Statute.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, the Alien Tort Statute
is limited to alien plaintiffs. I mean, and that was
the congressional design, and it was -- that arises out
of the history, to make sure that aliens with law of
nations claims had access to Federal courts and Federal
remedies to -- to vindicate those positions. The -- the
United States could still take action to protect the
U.S. citizen.
Can I reserve the balance of my time then?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can.
Ms. Sullivan?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KATHLEEN M. SULLIVAN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MS. SULLIVAN: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
This case has nothing to do with the United
States. It's Nigerian plaintiffs suing an English and
Dutch company for activity alleged to have aided and
abetted the Nigerian Government for conduct taking place
entirely within Nigeria.
And, Justice Ginsburg, to the personal
jurisdiction question, Shell did not waive personal
jurisdiction objections to the suit. The court in the
companion Wiwa case determined -- rejected the personal
jurisdiction affirmative defense, and the Second Circuit
affirmed.
So if you look at Joint Appendix pages 111
to 112, you'll see that we absolutely preserved the
personal jurisdiction defense.
Missing from the discussion you've just had
with Mr. Hoffman about possible ways to minimize the
dangers of applying the ATS in foreign countries is any
mention of Congress. And I'd like to return us to the
question presented on this round of the argument, which
is: Should the ATS and, Justice Ginsburg, Federal
common law be applied to conduct taking place entirely
within the borders of a foreign country? And our answer
is it should not, under the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does that mean,
Ms. Sullivan, that you -- and do I understand your
argument on brief correctly, that you would say from --
the revival of 1350 from Filartiga was wrong because
nothing happened -- nothing happened in the United
States there? Marcos was wrong because nothing -- the
wrong occurred abroad?
Does your -- the argument you're making now
that this is not applicable to things that happened
offshore exclude Filartiga and Marcos?
MS. SULLIVAN: We do not believe that you
need to address Filartiga because Filartiga is taken
care of entirely by the proper body, which is Congress.
Congress, in enacting the TVPA, the Torture Victim
Protection Act, covered a situation like Filartiga,
where a Paraguayan plaintiff sues a Paraguayan
individual defendant for conduct in Paraguay.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then you're at least
saying --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, maybe it's just
history and background, but I would really like you to
answer Justice Ginsburg's question. Suppose we had
granted cert in Filartiga before Congress acted?
What -- under your position, what should have been the
result? I think that was the purport of her question,
and I would appreciate an answer to it.
MS. SULLIVAN: Yes, Justice Kennedy. We
think the current correct result is that the ATS and
Federal common law, which is substantive and remedial
law of the United States -- and here, we agree with the
United States on page 2 of its brief -- ATS plus Federal
common law is the substantive and remedial law of the
United States. And we think, under the well-established
canon against extraterritorial application of U.S. law,
absent congressional clear indication, there should not
be such an extension. So, therefore --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Sullivan, can I ask you
about your position on extraterritorial application. I
believe strongly in the presumption against
extraterritorial application, but do you know of any
other area where extraterritorial application only means
application on the territory of a foreign country and
not application on the high seas?
MS. SULLIVAN: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I find that -- you know,
extraterritorial means extraterritorial, but -- but you
contend that this -- as I think you must -- that this
statute applies on the high seas.
MS. SULLIVAN: We -- we don't concede that
the statute applies on the high seas.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, you don't? Okay. I
thought that was common ground. I'm glad to know it
isn't.
MS. SULLIVAN: Sosa said, looking to the
three Blackstone paradigms, assaults on ambassadors,
interference with safe conducts, and piracy, that
certainly the antecedents to the ATS, the Marbois
incident of an attack in Philadelphia, and the New York
constable entering the home in New York City of the
Dutch ambassador, those were incidents on U.S. soil.
And Sosa says perhaps also the third paradigm, piracy,
might also be covered.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought that
was the most clear violation of an international norm.
The one thing that the civilized countries would agree
on is that you --
MS. SULLIVAN: At the time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- capture pirates.
MS. SULLIVAN: Our clear -- our position on
piracy is this. Even if you think the ATS and Federal
common law can extend to conduct on the high seas, which
are stateless, a place where no foreign sovereign rules,
that does not mean that the ATS and Federal common law
can apply to conduct within a foreign sovereign's
borders --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it doesn't mean that.
It doesn't mean that, but if the -- what is the question
we're asking. If, when the statute was passed, it
applied to pirates, the question to me is who are
today's pirates. And if Hitler isn't a pirate, who is?
And if, in fact, an equivalent torturer or dictator who
wants to destroy an entire race in his own country is
not the equivalent of today's pirate, who is?
And we have treaties that say there is
universal jurisdiction. Other countries take it.
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: We took it in Filartiga.
We took it in the cases that Justice Ginsburg mentioned.
So I absolutely grant you could make the distinction,
but, given the purpose and an objective of the statute,
why should we make it?
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Breyer, with respect,
the United States has not acceded to the principle of
universal civil jurisdiction. And with respect --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, we did explicitly in
the torture treaty in respect to that particular
incident.
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Breyer, in our brief
at 48, note 11, you'll see that that's not quite the
case. I'm sorry -- I'm sorry.
We object -- the United States objected to
the universal civil jurisdiction aspect of the
convention against torture. We have never acceded to
that. And the reason is that we fear exactly the
consequences Justice Kennedy began the argument with.
We fear that if we say that a United States court can be
open to try any accused law of nations violator for
anywhere in the world regardless of the place of the
conduct, the other nations of the world might seek to do
the same to us.
JUSTICE BREYER: They do that, don't they,
with torture? I mean, isn't that -- it's criminal, not
civil, quite right. Does that make it better?
MS. SULLIVAN: Criminal is very different
from civil. And what we -- the precise argument we are
making here is that the presumption against application
of U.S. law to conduct within foreign sovereigns -- and
remember, the purpose of the presumption,
Justice Scalia, is to avoid conflict with foreign
sovereigns. There is no foreign sovereign over the high
seas.
The conflict arises, and the presumption
protects against this conflict, when we go into a
foreign nation, we project our law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that. That's
the worst. But I really don't -- you appeal to the
general principle of territoriality of our laws. And,
as I say, I don't know any other case where -- where
that principle allows our securities laws to be applied
on the high seas, for example --
MS. SULLIVAN: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- even though they can
apply in Australia.
MS. SULLIVAN: -- Your Honor, if you wish to
say no extraterritorial application, we think Sosa does
not foreclose that, because Sosa simply said piracy
might be one of the -- the actions covered.
But I want to get back to the key point,
which is --
JUSTICE ALITO: Can I ask this about piracy?
In 1789, do you think that Congress was contemplating
tort actions against pirates in courts of the United
States?
MS. SULLIVAN: No, we do not, Your Honor,
because we think that in rem actions were the typical
things contemplated. And as soon as
United States v. Palmer comes along, this Court applied
the presumption against extraterritorial application of
U.S. law to -- the application of the then-extant piracy
statute to a foreign-flagged vessel on the high seas.
The thought was, don't apply it to the
foreign-flagged vessel because that's like a mini-
foreign country on the high seas. So we would argue
that the presumption against extraterritoriality
actually applied in the founding era even to piracy.
But even if you were to say, well, piracy is
covered now, it doesn't follow that the norms that are
invoked here under the law of nations can be subject to
a U.S. civil cause of action.
And I want to stress that our point is that
the U.S. is projecting here -- and I don't believe
through the statute, the ATS, but through the causes of
action under Federal common law -- our law onto foreign
countries.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Ms. Sullivan, your
argument is very broad, and I want to ask you a
question. Your case might properly be dismissed. But
take a different case, and it's a -- just a variation on
the Marbois incident, where instead of being attacked in
Philadelphia, the French ambassador to Britain is
attacked in London, but is attacked by a United States
citizen, who then comes home to the United States, seeks
refuge in the United States. And the French
ambassador -- the French ambassador wants to bring an
action.
Wouldn't the ATS have contemplated exactly
that sort of action? I mean, why would it make any
difference whether the attack on the French ambassador
by a United States citizen occurred in Philadelphia or
occurred in London?
MS. SULLIVAN: The difference it makes is
that in your hypothetical, the reverse Marbois case, the
proper remedy would have been to seek -- for France to
seek extradition of the U.S. assailant and --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I think I'm advised by
the Solicitor General's office that there were very few
extradition treaties at that time. And even if
extradition was a possible remedy, I mean why shouldn't
we understand the ATS to provide supplemental remedies
as well, civil as well as criminal, civil as well as
extradition?
MS. SULLIVAN: Because Congress hasn't
clearly said so. And the point of the presumption is to
avoid all of the judge-made possible qualifications that
were discussed earlier: exhaustion, political question,
the possible limitations suggested by the European
Union.
Congress doesn't get to say anything if it's
the courts deciding, through their own prudence,
together with the advice from the Department of State.
And, Justice Alito, in answer to your
question whether --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Excuse me. Do
you mean that the courts -- in those areas where you
acknowledge the statute applies, that the courts will
not apply doctrines of exhaustion, of, you know, comity,
of -- the appropriateness of bringing the action here?
Of course they will, won't they?
MS. SULLIVAN: They're not always applied,
Justice Scalia. And if so, it sometimes takes many
years before they happen. And the State Department is
not always listened to.
In the South African apartheid case, not
only did the State Department seek to protest the
action, but the Government of South Africa filed a
letter, and the district court ignored both.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, we should fix that
then. But that's not the question here, right? The
question here is -- is the different one of whether you
ever get to the exhaustion question.
MS. SULLIVAN: Correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And if you go back to the
reverse Marbois, you said Congress didn't speak, but I
think what we said in Sosa is that Congress did speak,
that Congress was referring to exactly that kind of tort
when it passed the Alien Tort Statute.
And you are saying it would have made a
difference to Congress that the incident occurred in a
different place even though the attacker was a United
States citizen seeking refuge in the United States and
leaving the French with no remedy.
MS. SULLIVAN: With respect, Your Honor, the
French had several remedies. The French victim could
have sued in tort in the United States. And under the
transitory tort doctrine that was adopted at the time,
which is not a precedent for the ATS, would have allowed
a suit under French law. French law would have been
imported to try that claim. So it could have been tried
in State court as an assault.
Second, there could have been extradition.
Third, the point of the Marbois in
stimulating the ATS was that if -- if a U.S. citizen
attacks the French ambassador on U.S. soil, and we then
harbored him, that could have led to an incident of war.
But there is no incident of war or conflict posed in
your hypothetical because extradition was possible, and
State court tort violations -- State law tort -- State
court jurisdiction over a transitory tort should
have obtained.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think it matters
that the harboring is after the fact or not? Meaning if
the -- if the mercenary fled France and was hiding from
the French here, why is there any less chance of a war?
MS. SULLIVAN: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't understand. The
apples and apples don't -- seem to not match in my mind.
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Sotomayor, I -- there
is theoretically the possibility that if State law
transitory tort didn't work, and if extradition didn't
work, and if the French didn't just seek to punish the
assailant in their own country, maybe there would have
been international conflict, but there is no evidence
Congress was thinking about that at the time.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Pirates could have been
sued in State court, too, and yet the ATS -- I know that
you quarrel about whether an act of piracy qualifies as
an international norm, but assuming that I accept it is,
pirates could have been -- under your theory, pirates
could have been sued in State court, too, yet Congress
found it important to pass the ATS.
MS. SULLIVAN: It did. But, Your Honor,
there is not a single founding era precedent, not a
single one, that involves the reverse hypothetical.
Every single founding era precedent that stimulated the
ATS or came soon in its aftermath involved international
law violations alleged to have occurred on U.S. soil or
in U.S. waters.
The two cases most soon after the ATS were
Moxon v. The Fanny and Bolchos v. Darrell, which
involved supposed law of nations violations on U.S.
waters and on U.S. soil.
JUSTICE ALITO: What should happen when the
injury occurs within the territory of a foreign country,
but it is alleged that the injury was directed by
someone in the United States?
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Alito, we would
respectfully urge that direction is -- is not enough.
If the place of the injury and the place of the last
conduct was on foreign soil. We think ordinary
restatement of conflict principles would suggest that
you look to the law of the place of injury, not to the
forum law.
And the most important point about the ATS
and Federal common law, even if it were under section
1331, Justice Ginsburg, is that it's an application of
U.S. substantive and remedial law to another country.
And the offense is we're telling the other country that
they have to entertain private civil litigation. And
there is a difference, Justice Breyer, between criminal
and civil --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. You're right about
that. What about the Bradford? Isn't there -- all this
stuff about -- you know what I'm talking about.
MS. SULLIVAN: Bradford is the best thing
the Petitioners have in the founding era, and it's not
enough to overcome the presumption --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because?
MS. SULLIVAN: -- because he could have been
speaking about the high seas.
JUSTICE BREYER: He could have, but if you
read it, it looks as if there was -- what he's upset
about -- or what Britain was upset about was an
American.
MS. SULLIVAN: And he --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Go ahead.
MS. SULLIVAN: It was Americans, but
we -- we think, if properly read, the hostilities of
which he spoke was the high seas part of the conduct.
It was an American who piloted the French fleet 60 miles
from the Iles de Los to the Sierra Leone River. And
that was -- if you read grammatically, we think that is
what Attorney General Bradford was referring to.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Sullivan, before your
time runs out, I mean, you have said, candidly, that if
Filartiga were to come up today, if Marcos were to come
up to this forum, there would be no basis under the
Alien Tort Statute.
But assume for the moment that those two
cases -- that we accept them -- Sosa seemed to accept
them. Is there anything different about your case?
MS. SULLIVAN: Yes, Your Honor. There are
many -- many differences between us and Filartiga. For
one, this is a case in which there is a -- a class
action against a corporation. And if you don't agree
with us on the lack of extraterritorial application, we
still maintain that the ATS does not apply to
corporations.
Second, there is -- there was a -- there's
an allegation here of aiding and abetting a foreign
Government. It was unclear in Filartiga whether the
Paraguayan was acting within or without the state's
authority, but -- and he was later deported, so we don't
know the answer.
But here the offense is magnified because
the allegation is that an English and a Dutch company
aided and abetted the Nigerian Government. That is
where the offense to the principle against international
friction is at its highest. And so if you weren't to
adopt our position in full, at a minimum we think you
should hold that the presumption applies to
foreign-cubed cases involving aiding and abetting a
foreign government, where everything is foreign.
But we don't think you should do that in the
first instance. We respectfully submit the better
approach is to apply the presumption as a categorical
matter.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in Filartiga, why
wasn't there an aiding and abetting? I think it was
pretty clear. He probably was working for the
government, which is even worse.
MS. SULLIVAN: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- and I am interested
in Justice Ginsburg's question.
MS. SULLIVAN: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just assume we think the
Second Circuit was right, pre-congressional action under
the Alien Tort Statute. Is -- is there any way in which
we can use the principle of extraterritoriality to rule
in your favor?
MS. SULLIVAN: We think there is,
Justice Kennedy. And we think the principle of
extraterritoriality is -- is essentially a
democracy-forcing device to send these questions back to
Congress. And if we send it back to Congress --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, have we
crossed that -- we've crossed that bridge already,
didn't we, in Sosa?
MS. SULLIVAN: You have --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The presumption
applies to interpreting acts of Congress. We are over
that. We're -- we're making this law up ourselves,
right?
MS. SULLIVAN: Chief -- Mr. Chief Justice,
you are making it up themselves, and that's why there's
all the more reason to apply the presumption against
application to foreign countries.
It's far worse to have judges --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you're asking us to
overturn our precedents.
MS. SULLIVAN: We --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're -- you're
basically saying Filartiga and Marcos, Sosa, they were
all wrong.
MS. SULLIVAN: We are not, Your Honor. Sosa
did not address the question we have before the Court
today.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, how can you say
that? Maybe the facts didn't, but certainly the
reasoning of the case addressed that issue very directly
and -- and basically said it does. And then it talked
about how you limit it. That's what Sosa did.
MS. SULLIVAN: To answer the Chief Justice's
question, you don't need to overrule, so to speak,
Filartiga on Justice Kennedy's question. You can simply
say that in the intervening period, Congress did, as is
appropriate in the area of applying law to foreign
conduct, pass a specific statute, the TVPA, that applies
exactly to the conduct in Filartiga. That should inform
your decision today, that you don't need judge-made law
to address the situation in Filartiga.
And you don't need to overrule Sosa, with
respect, Justice Sotomayor, because Sosa did not
address, for better or for worse, the
extraterritoriality argument we make today. It went off
at the first step. No international norms, specifically
universal and specific -- sufficiently specific and
universal. So it didn't get to the concerns about
friction with foreign countries.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Ms. Sullivan, I'm going
to read you something from Sosa, which -- it talks all
about the rule that it adopts and then it says: "This
is generally consistent with the reasoning of many of
the courts and judges who faced the issue before it
reached this Court. See Filartiga." And then it quotes
Filartiga: "For purposes of civil liability, the
torturer has become like the pirate and slave trader
before him, an enemy of all mankind."
So we gave a stamp of approval to Filartiga
and Filartiga's understanding that there were certain
categories of offenders who were today's pirates.
MS. SULLIVAN: If -- the fact that the
nations of the world agree on norms does not mean the
nations of the world agree on remedies. And what the
ATS and Federal common law, as interpreted in Sosa, do
is project a U.S. civil cause of action with U.S. rules,
punitive damages, no attorney fee shifting, contingent
fee and punitive damages. That should not be done
except by Congress. They did it in the TVPA, but you
should not permit it to be done here.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Sullivan.
General Verrilli.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.,
FOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
The Alien Tort Statute should not afford a
cause of action to address the extraterritorial conduct
of a foreign corporation when the allegation is that the
defendant aided and abetted a foreign sovereign. In
this category of cases, there just isn't any meaningful
connection to the United States.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that the same -- is
that your simple rule? Is that how you want us to
rule --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that there could
never be aiding and abetting on behalf of a corporation?
Is that your simple answer to this case, or what's the
general --
GENERAL VERRILLI: It's -- it's a narrower
statement than that, Justice Sotomayor. It's that there
shouldn't be a cause of action to address the
extraterritorial conduct of a foreign corporation that
is alleged to have aided and abetted the acts of a
foreign sovereign.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about in your -- you
do say in your brief that you think that Filartiga is
within the Alien Tort Statute.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, we do,
Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You don't -- don't adopt
a theory that many of the -- briefs do, that there has
to be some connection, some nexus to the United States.
You just tell us that Filartiga is okay. And how about
Marcos, is that okay?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, we think in
Filartiga, Justice Ginsburg, that the -- the -- that
there is a nexus to the United States. The actual
perpetrator was -- A, it was a case against the actual
perpetrator.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but you -- you don't
--
GENERAL VERRILLI: And B --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- you don't offer us a
nexus. You don't offer us that reason why Filartiga was
okay.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, I think our reasons
for why Filartiga was okay is that -- that it was the
actual perpetrator, not an aider and abettor, and the
actual perpetrator was resident in the United States.
And I do think when Congress enacted the
TVPA, that is what Congress looked to as the salient
features of the Filartiga situation that justified --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What else? What else?
You -- you say Filartiga. You don't mention Marcos. Is
Marcos in your view a proper exercise?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I -- I think Filartiga is
the paradigm, and cases like Filartiga are the paradigm
that -- where we think ATS -- ATS causes of action
should be recognized.
JUSTICE SCALIA: General Verrilli, the --
that's -- that is a new position for the -- for the
State Department, isn't it?
GENERAL VERRILLI: It's a new --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And for -- and for the
United States Government? Why should -- why should we
listen to you rather than the solicitors general who
took the opposite position and the position taken by
Respondents here in other cases, not only in several
courts of appeals, but even up here?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, Justice Scalia, in
a case like this one, in cases under the Alien Tort
Statute, the United States has multiple interests. We
certainly have foreign relations interests in avoiding
friction with foreign governments; we have interests in
avoiding subjecting United States companies to liability
abroad. We also have interests in ensuring that our
Nation's foreign relations commitments to the rule of
law and human rights are not eroded.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that, but --
GENERAL VERRILLI: It's my responsibility to
balance those sometimes competing interests and make a
judgment about what the position of the United States
should be, consistent with existing law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It -- it was --
GENERAL VERRILLI: And we have done so.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- it was the
responsibility of your predecessors as well, and they
took a different position. So, you know, why -- why
should we defer to the views of -- of the current
administration?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, because we think
they are persuasive, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, okay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your successors may
adopt a different view. And I think -- I don't want to
put words in his mouth, but Justice Scalia's point means
whatever deference you are entitled to is compromised by
the fact that your predecessors took a different
position.
GENERAL VERRILLI: So, Mr. Chief Justice,
let me be clear: In this case our position is that the
Court ought not recognize a cause of action.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that the defendant
in this case were a U.S. corporation, but the case were
otherwise identical. What result then?
GENERAL VERRILLI: In that case the possible
risk of foreign relations friction would be comparable.
The risk of reciprocal exposure to American companies
would also exist. The difference between that case and
this case, Your Honor, is that there'd be a much more
substantial connection to the United States because it's
an American company. The question in the case would be
whether the -- that substantial connection provided a
sufficient justification for subjecting the United
States company to these international law norms to avoid
undermining the credibility of our Nation's commitment
to those norms. We haven't taken a position on that
question in this case because we think that the Court
ought to proceed incrementally here. The case before
the Court involves a foreign corporation in which there
just isn't any connection to the United States at all,
and it's our judgment that the Court should decide that
case --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You are disavowing --
you are disavowing any forum of necessity view of the
ATS? You are disavowing what other countries do or say
with respect to citizens -- to aliens who are attacked?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Our view about that,
Justice Sotomayor, is that the key determinant here, and
the reason why there ought not be a cause of action
here, is the absence of any meaningful connection to the
United States. And the question is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I asked you a question
directly. Are you foregoing -- are you foregoing any
forum necessity exception to the rule you've just
announced?
GENERAL VERRILLI: We don't think that the
question of the availability of a forum or
nonavailability of a forum is sufficient to override the
absence of any connection to the United States.
Now, I will say --
JUSTICE ALITO: If I could follow up on the
question I asked before. I'm not asking you to say
definitively which way you would come out in this
hypothetical case, but from your brief I really don't
understand how you would decide. Would it depend --
what would it depend on?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think it would
depend on a weighing of the strength of the interests of
the United States, the foreign relations interests of
the United States, in applying this narrow category of
Sosa norms in order to avoid undermining the
credibility --
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose everything is the
same except for --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But we don't -- we are not
very good at figuring out the foreign policy interests
of the United States. And, you know, in the past we
have tried to get out from under our prior case law in
the sovereign immunity area of asking the State
Department. And the State Department would come in
here: This is good; this is bad. We abandoned all that
in the sovereign immunity field. Why should we walk
back into it here? Or do you intend to have us make
these foreign policy decisions?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Congress can always act
in this area, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but assuming Congress
doesn't act. Why should -- you know, you want us to
listen to the State Department case by case. Is that --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, actually what we
are advocating here, Your Honor, is that the Court can
make categorical judgments, not pure case by case
factual judgments. We just think there is more than one
category. There are salient differences between a
situation like this one, in which there is no connection
to the United States at all, or a situation like the one
Justice Alito raised about an American corporation. And
there are also cases in which the suit is against a
direct perpetrator.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But we listen to the State
Department as to what those categories ought to be.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think the
categories are evident from the kinds of cases that have
been brought. But -- but certainly, the views of the
State Department do deserve deference.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you talking about a
nexus test? That's what it sounds like to me. Has to
have either an actor nexus or a act nexus, effect nexus?
What are you talking?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think what we're --
we're not -- we're talking about something different,
Justice Sotomayor. The question is whether to recognize
a Federal common law cause of action. I think that
depends on --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Either it exists or it
doesn't.
GENERAL VERRILLI: It depends on a weighing
of interests, I believe, Your Honor, and that there are
interests that cut against recognizing causes of acts in
this area, and that's what Sosa said.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is -- that -- I'm having
trouble with this. We -- without question, piracy,
attacks on ambassadors, we know that those were
international norms in 1789. If one of those acts
happened, you seem to be suggesting that, answering
Justice Kagan's hypothetical, that if a Frenchman
attacks an English ambassador in Switzerland, that case
would never be heard in the United States because there
is no nexus to the United States; is that correct?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, if no one ever came
to the United States.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, assuming someone
came. So how is that different from here?
GENERAL VERRILLI: No. It's just -- it's
not -- the connection is not an on/off switch. But our
position is you need a connection in order to assess
whether there is even an interest in having cause of
action --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why isn't presence
alone in the United States a connection?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, if it's an
individual perpetrator like Filartiga we think that it
is because it's the direct perpetrator.
JUSTICE BREYER: If in the -- in fact in
Filartiga it was done through a corporation -- the
torture -- now?
GENERAL VERRILLI: If the -- if the -- it
was -- I think torture has to be --
JUSTICE BREYER: Torture is done by hiring
Torture, Inc. Okay? Is there or isn't there?
GENERAL VERRILLI: If it's a norm that has
to be violated by --
JUSTICE BREYER: You heard the question. I
need an answer to that specific -- that specific
hypothetical. Everything is the same except the torture
is carried out by Torture, Inc. Because my actual
question is about aiding and abetting. I mean, the
first part is they do it directly. Can they bring
Filartiga or not -- in your view?
GENERAL VERRILLI: If they do it directly.
If they are the direct violator of a norm that they can
violate directly, then yes they can.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. But if it's aiding
and abetting?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Then if it's a foreign
corporation and it occurred entirely in a foreign
country.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. So it turns on that.
And what I really want to know is what is the difference
between that? Is it like the criminal law difference of
accessory versus principle or what?
GENERAL VERRILLI: May I answer,
Mr. Chief Justice?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Briefly, yes.
GENERAL VERRILLI: The difference is that
while you would have a comparable -- you would have a
risk of friction in subjecting a foreign sovereign's
acts to scrutiny in the United States, you have the
reciprocity risk I mentioned. You would have to make a
judgment about whether those concerns are overcome by
the countervailing concern of applying the -- finding an
ATS cause of action to apply U.S. norms. If it's an
entirely foreign corporation with no connection to the
United States, our position is the answer to that is no.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Hoffman you have eight minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL L. HOFFMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. HOFFMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
I would like to make three points.
First, on the Bradford opinion. I think if
you read the diplomatic materials that we placed before
the Court, it's absolutely clear that what the British
were concerned about was pillaging and plundering on
land in the Sierra Leone colony. They were seeking
redress for those things, for destroying libraries, for
destroying Freetown, not just about things that happened
on the high seas and not just about things that happened
in territorial waters. It's absolutely clear that
that's true, but obviously you have those materials and
you can read it. And Attorney General Bradford said
there was no doubt that there was an ATS action.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was also a U.S.
perpetrator.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, that's true, but with
respect to the presumption against extraterritoriality,
it wouldn't matter if it is a U.S. perpetrator or not.
And it shows exactly why the presumption can't apply
because it would undermine the very purposes of the
statute in the best available evidence that we have
about what it meant in the era.
I would like to give a hypothetical that I
think reveals why the U.S. Government position should
not be accepted.
Suppose there is -- there is an Iranian
corporation that secretly supplies poison gas to the
current Syrian regime in order to kill tens of thousands
of Kurdish citizens. And suppose after the Assad regime
is overthrown, those -- the documents revealing that
poison gas transfer to the Syrian regime was made public
and that Iranian corporation does business in the United
States, asylum seekers who were driven out by the poison
gas attacks are in the United States, maybe living in
the same communities as the plaintiffs in our case,
having gotten asylum in this case. Would it be the case
that the Alien Tort Statute should not apply to a claim
of aiding and abetting the Assad regime and murdering
tens of thousands of its people? It is the modern day
example of I.G. Farben. Is it the case that a modern
day I.G. Farben would be exempt from the Alien Tort
Statute? There is a clear, well-established doctrine of
aiding and abetting in international law. It has been
accepted by the lower courts. The lower courts have
uniformly rejected the arguments that have been made by
Respondents in this case. And I would say that the Sosa
framework is -- should be given a chance to work. This
Court dealt with these issues eight years ago. It set
up a historical paradigm test based on many of the
concerns that have been expressed here, and there are
alternative doctrines that can be applied to deal with
these concerns. Political question, active state,
international comity, forum non conveniens, personal
jurisdiction, those have not really been litigated.
Whether they have been waived or not is something that
the lower courts can deal with. Whether they apply the
lower court --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Given the court's recent
decisions on personal jurisdiction, and I have in mind
particularly the Goodyear Tire case, is there personal
jurisdiction in this case or in the case of your
hypothetical?
MR. HOFFMAN: One of the problems that --
that we would have, Justice Ginsburg, in answering that
question is that there is no record about the contacts
between these defendants and -- and the jurisdiction in
2002. The Wiwa case, for example, where it was
litigated was dealt on a factual record that went back
to 1996 and 1997. So there is no record here about
personal jurisdiction because it hasn't been asserted.
Now if the defendants have not in fact
waived personal jurisdiction, then presumably the lower
courts would apply the tests that this Court has -- has
established or in the 2011 decisions. And the same
would be true of forum non conveniens or any of the
other defenses. They have raised other defenses in this
case that have not been fully litigated. So -- so my
basic position is that the Sosa framework actually is --
works. It has actually weeded out cases. These
alternative doctrines have weeded out cases, but the
Court should not accept the categorical positions
asserted by either of the Respondents, which are the
broadest categorical positions even rejected by the
Government, or the Government's modified categorical
position. Those kinds of issues can be dealt with
within well-established doctrines where lower courts
have a body of jurisprudence that they can use to do
this.
The Alien Tort Statute as was applied to
human rights cases from Filartiga on is part of a trend
in the world today. The trend in the world today is
towards universal justice for people that -- and
corporations that violate these kinds of norms. That's
the trend. In fact, the United States has been the
leader in that. Our Government has proclaimed our
leadership position to U.N. bodies and around the world.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the United
Kingdom and Netherlands don't think so.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, the United Kingdom and
Netherlands have obviously asserted this position. But
the Netherlands have asserted that position while at the
same time 21 days after the -- the argument in
February a Dutch court gave damages to a Palestinian
doctor for wrongful imprisonment and torture that
occurred in Libya against two Libyan defendants that
were not even present in the courtroom.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It may have been wrong.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it may have been but
actually it seems perfectly consistent with Dutch law,
it is consistent with the exercise of universal
jurisdiction in many pieces of legislation --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would rather listen to
the Dutch Government than one, one Dutch judge, frankly.
MR. HOFFMAN: Well, the Dutch Government,
though, and one of the significant pieces in this case
is that the Nigerian Government doesn't have a position
on this case any longer. The United States Government
has never asked for this case to be dismissed on foreign
policy grounds. The United Kingdom and the Dutch
Government have never asked for this case to be -- to be
invalidated on foreign policy grounds. They have stated
their position about what they think the Alien Tort
Statute should mean. And if you look at the European
Union brief, of which the United Kingdom and Dutch are
members, the European Union says there is no issue about
universal jurisdiction, there is no issue about civil
jurisdiction that falls within universal jurisdiction.
Their only argument is that if you accept that, you
should accept international opposition and exhaustion of
local remedies.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And isn't that really the
way to reconcile the Dutch positions? The Dutch are
objecting because they think they have a fair forum, but
when the judges were faced with a case arising from
Libya, they thought that there was no fair forum there.
And that's the difference, that in one case there was
exhaustion and in the other there wasn't.
MR. HOFFMAN: I think that that's probably
what the basis of the Dutch position. Our position,
though, is that this -- the framework that this Court
established in Sosa to -- to take the pirates of the
18th century and deal with the Alien Tort Statute with
the torturers and those who commit genocide in the 21st
century was correct, and that doesn't need a radical
re-evaluation as suggested by the Respondents and the
United States.
If there are no further questions, I'd --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
28:19,24 29:2 aided 22:12 37:4 Americans 15:20 18:2
41:10,25 activity 22:12 aider 42:25 amici 13:11 28:15 29:8
41:18 acts 13:7 38:13 37:9,16 41:18 2:10 12:24 37:13 38:18
53:11 41:25 49:2,7 50:15,21 53:11 41:3 51:15 52:17
51:11 53:16 analysis 18:2 53:10 54:4,21
57:24 add 11:7 21:1,4,5,18,20 19:19 20:20 approach 37:13
21:12 address 23:19 36:10 37:25 31:8 37:1 39:14
44:3 39:3,18,21 41:7 42:4 39:10 41:19 appropriateness
52:2,8 adjudicated 4:5 aliens 21:23 antecedents 39:14 47:12,19
administration Alito 8:19 9:1,6 anybody 16:3 areas 31:11
36:12,12 administrative 15:23 16:6,10 apparently arguing 13:11
57:1,2 8:8 28:22 31:8 13:10 argument 1:14
53:17 44:22 46:19 48:5 28:8 3:7 16:14 22:6
advised 30:17 34:8,16 41:25 Appendix 22:21 57:1
33:23 47:24 allowing 8:21 applicable 23:16 14:15 15:15
48:16 affirmative 3:24 allows 28:11 application 53:18
22:1 Africa 31:22 20:22 21:1 29:5,6 35:2 asked 46:10,20
30:7 African 31:20 25:17 30:2,6,6 36:18 38:19 56:16,18
31:14,22 aftermath 34:7 30:10 32:25 applied 23:5 asking 26:10
37:24 ago 53:21 49:10 26:11 28:11 38:21 46:20
41:8,23 agree 15:8 24:12 ambassadors 29:4,12 31:16 47:12
45:4 25:22 36:17 18:23 25:12 53:24 55:12 aspect 27:9
48:21 40:15,16 49:6 applies 25:5,7 Assad 53:2,11
51:15 agreed 14:4 American 35:20 31:12 37:8 assailant 30:16
avoid 28:1 31:1 25:12 candidly 36:7 48:21 49:20
57:23 borders 23:6 case 3:4,11 4:7 57:17
36:11 B 1:21 2:9 41:2 Bradford 35:9 9:11 10:6,18 18:21 40:12
42:19 35:11 36:4 12:14 13:25 certainly 25:14
49:15 54:16 11:18,21,24 17:1,2,6 22:10 certify 9:18
21:10 24:3 26:8,18,19,24 28:10 29:24,25 53:20
bad 47:14 27:2,5,18 35:6 30:14 31:20 change 12:15
25:14 BARINEM 1:5 50:21 51:1 43:23 45:3,6,6 22:4,8 25:20
29:19 based 8:5 20:1 bridge 38:9 45:8,11,12,14 25:25 38:8,12
32:18 53:22 brief 8:11 12:24 45:20,21,25 38:16,16 39:10
33:22 basic 55:1 17:6 18:5 46:22 47:11,22 40:24 41:5
basically 13:3 23:10 24:13 47:22,25,25 44:21 45:2
40:17 38:25 39:8 27:5 42:3 49:10 53:8,9,9 51:6,7,18,23
46:3 basis 4:19 36:9 46:22 56:22 53:13,19 54:8 55:20 57:21
52:11 57:12 Briefly 51:7 54:9,9,15,25 Circuit 16:23
beginning 5:16 bring 11:10 20:5 57:7,9,22,23 cite 10:18
30:1,3,3 behalf 1:4,18,20 bringing 31:14 9:13 13:5 20:25 21:8,12
2:4,7,14 3:8 Britain 30:2 26:20 34:10 22:2 30:4,11
49:6,10 belief 17:9 broad 29:23 43:23 48:6,11 10:10 46:4
believe 5:1 6:7 broadest 55:6 55:2,3,13 53:2
52:10 23:18 24:21 48:12 37:13 47:25 civil 27:1,9,20
believes 17:7,12 business 53:5 category 41:11 56:24
best 35:11 52:19 C Caterpillar claim 17:18,23
20:4,16 37:12 39:21 cahoots 12:4 cause 14:2 29:16 21:2 32:20
big 16:12 California 1:17 40:18 41:8,23 53:10
20:4,5,17 company 22:12 11:6 29:21 38:19 27:19,21 30:22
21:24 37:3 45:14,17 considered 40:1 46:3 35:6 51:3
25:21 competing 44:8 44:10 56:7,8 19:5 23:6 41:3
37:17 complaint 3:13 constable 25:16 24:24 26:14 current 24:10
52:2,8 complications constitutes 7:3 29:10 33:18 44:16 53:1
10:11 contacts 54:13 34:15 35:3,4 customary 19:4
30:25 44:24 29:3 30:8 course 8:16
47:13 conduct 22:13 contingent 12:14 15:13,18 Darrell 34:11
27:16,24 34:21 conveniens 5:12 18:1,7 19:2,13 days 18:17
41:8,24 16:24 17:4,5 20:17,18 22:9 de 36:2
conflict 28:1,4,5 convention 29:4 31:23 54:4 57:15
Congress 20:2 corporation 5:3 33:22 34:1 54:16 55:8
28:23 30:24 41:9,18,24 47:24 52:2 45:24 46:23
32:10 33:20 50:3,24 51:16 55:4 56:1 18:17
18:7,15 47:20 36:20 55:16 7:12,16,20,21 decision 7:16
19:1,3 congressional correct 24:10 7:23 11:2 16:8 9:15 15:5
23:5 18:8 20:3 32:3 49:12 18:8 19:5 21:2 17:13 39:17
25:9 21:22 24:17 57:17 21:3,24 28:24 decisions 47:17
29:20 connection 4:13 correctly 23:10 31:6,11,12 54:7,22
40:17 4:17 41:12 Corrie 10:22 40:6 43:21 deemed 15:18
42:9 45:13,15 counsel 12:23 53:17,17 54:4 defendant 13:6
48:3 49:18,19 57:21 court's 54:6 41:10 45:5
consequences 51:14 25:19 28:19 3:15 4:17,20
consider 8:13 6:17 7:5 13:10 credibility 45:18 defense 3:22,24
22:18 considerably 25:22 26:17 criminal 6:12 defenses 5:17
direct 48:7 50:1 E 56:21,23 29:5 36:18
direction 34:19 effect 8:22 48:16 evidence 33:19 20:21 29:11
50:20 53:21 exactly 21:4 Exxon 9:13
48:16,23
46:2,3 55:5 52:17 faced 40:6 57:7
8:20 11:8 dismiss 3:25 enclaves 19:16 53:13 54:15 16:11 18:11
11:1,2 enemy 40:10 exception 46:12 20:19 26:13
47:13,13 dismissed 9:12 enforce 18:9 exceptions 33:8 40:14
48:9,13 29:24 56:16 19:6,7 19:14 44:25 50:2
47:1 distinction 14:5 19:11 Excuse 31:10,10 facts 14:11 39:6
district 8:21 9:1 England 13:14 exercise 43:7 54:16
32:17 53:15 entire 26:14 14:7,15,23 familiar 18:12
5:12 8:5 31:13 23:5,20 50:24 31:2,13 32:2 far 19:22 38:20
documents 53:3 equivalent existence 12:12 favor 38:2
32:10 DONALD 1:21 Erie 19:15,15 explain 13:2 Federal 7:20
45:11 2:9 41:2 eroded 44:5 explicitly 27:2 14:2 17:18,20
57:9 doubt 52:11 ESQ 1:17,19,21 exposure 45:10 17:22 18:15,16
48:2 driven 53:6 essentially 38:5 extend 26:3 19:14,16,17,18
13:13 15:5 22:12 54:22 57:14 extradition 21:24 23:4
29:25 25:17 37:3 ESTHER 1:3 30:16,19,20,23 24:11,13 26:2
36:13 56:1,7,11,11 ET 1:5,8 32:22 33:3,16 26:5 29:20
56:12,17,22 EU 13:25 extraterritorial 35:1 40:17
49:16 57:5,5,12 European 8:10 24:16,20,22,23 48:21
16:18,24 17:3 3:16 17:20 Goodyear 54:8 24:3
26:19 17:5,9 34:24 18:14,15,18,25 gotten 53:9 Hitler 26:12
36:9 46:2,12 20:11 28:9 governed 18:23 hoc 7:14
38:25 46:15,16 54:1 36:4 41:1,5,16 government Hoffman 1:17
54:23 57:6,8 41:20,21 42:5 10:11 12:5 2:3,13 3:6,7,9
42:3 forums 14:20 42:12,19,23 22:13 31:22 3:23 4:3,6,13
forward 8:22 43:8,12,15,18 36:23 37:4,10 4:24 5:6,19,23
9:3,10,15,22 43:22 44:7,12 37:18 43:17 6:1,4,20 7:9
50:3,17 20:3 44:18 45:2,8 52:22 55:7,18 8:2,9,25 9:4,8
found 18:7 19:3 46:5,14,25 56:11,12,14,15 9:19 10:4,8,13
50:16 founding 29:12 generally 5:8 grammatically 14:22 15:4,9
34:4,6 35:12 17:10 40:5 36:3 15:12 16:2,9
46:19 France 30:15 15:1 16:21,25 56:17,19 21:20 22:25
Freetown 52:6 23:4,8,25 H 55:22 56:6,12
11:8 30:2,5,6,10 36:6 42:2,6,7 31:18 34:14 hold 37:8
21:1 32:13,15,15,19 42:13,17,20 happened 4:11 home 25:16 30:4
24:24 32:19,25 33:10 43:5 52:12 4:12 16:21 homeland 6:23
27:24 33:17 36:1 54:6,12 23:12,12,16 Honor 28:16
29:10 Frenchman Ginsburg's 49:8 52:6,7 29:1 32:14
34:15,21 20:23 49:9 19:20 24:4 harbored 33:1 34:3 36:14
37:10,10 friction 37:6 37:21 harboring 33:8 39:2 44:19
39:14 40:1 44:1 45:9 give 7:23 52:21 hear 3:3 45:12 47:24
41:9,10 51:10 given 19:22 heard 8:6 49:11 49:1
42:1 full 37:7 26:22 53:20 50:11 hostilities 35:24
44:1,4 fully 54:25 54:6 hiding 33:9 human 3:12,14
47:2,9 fundamental glad 25:9 high 24:25 25:5 10:23,25 19:9
50:23,24 14:5 21:5 go 8:21 9:10,15 25:7 26:3 28:2 44:5 55:13
56:16 further 18:8 9:23 19:22 28:12 29:7,10 HUSBAND 1:4
57:20 20:3 28:5 32:4 35:16,25 52:7 hypothetical
37:9 goes 14:6 15:6 hiring 50:7 30:14 33:3
50:13 25:13 judge-made 26:18,19,20,24 9:24 10:5,9,14
54:10 interferes 11:8 31:1 39:17 27:2,5,12,18 10:17 19:19
15:19 17:24 4:21 5:7,11,21 37:20,21,23 13:24 18:12
33:19,24 34:7 12:1,8 14:1 38:21,24 39:5 kinds 19:6 48:11
45:17 49:7 18:13 19:22 40:24 41:5,13 Kingdom 6:10
57:2 22:16,17,19,23 42:6,7,13,17 55:21,22 56:17
interpreting 54:14,18,20 44:11,13,20,21 know 8:10 9:24
30:1 intervening jurisdictions 6:8 46:1,6,10,19 17:6 24:22
33:1,2 39:13 jurisprudence 47:6,8,19,20 25:2,9 28:10
invoked 29:15 3:9,20 4:1,4,9 49:15,22 50:2 44:15 47:10,21
involved 10:24 5:22,24 6:2,14 51:1,6,7,18,23 known 21:5
45:22 9:17,24,24 56:10 57:4,21 L
Iranian 52:24 11:4,12,18,21 justification 3:7 51:21
19:11 39:7 13:1,13,16,21 LATE 1:4
18:14,25 19:10 36:5 40:2 57:4 14:17 15:16,19
44:1 JR 1:21 2:9 41:2 22:4,8,15 23:4 1:19 2:6 22:6 18:15,15,16,16
47:1,2,9 judge 56:11 23:8,25 24:2,4 Kennedy 4:9,22 18:18,22,25
judges 38:20 24:9,19 25:2,8 4:25 5:14,22 19:1,3,4,6,12
21:23 live 6:22 23:8 26:5,8,9 15:2 18:6,22 18:11,13,21
24:11,12 living 4:15 10:10 27:19 30:9,20 19:7 20:16 19:7,9 29:14
53:7 31:11 36:7 21:24 27:14,16 39:23 40:15
27:14 local 8:10,14,16 40:15 50:15 29:15 34:12 45:17,19 47:4
28:6 14:23 57:3 56:21 40:15,16 49:7 51:15
33:4
34:8,12 longer 56:15 41:11 46:8 necessarily 18:2 number 6:16,17
35:1 look 22:21 34:23 means 24:23 necessity 13:10 13:25
38:14 56:21 25:3 44:23 46:2,12
40:17 looked 43:3 meant 52:20 need 19:22 O
45:17 looking 11:5 members 56:23 23:19 39:11,17 O 2:1 3:1
48:21 25:11 mention 8:7 39:19 49:19 object 27:8
53:16 looks 15:15 23:2 43:6 50:12 57:17 objected 27:8
35:18 mentioned neither 18:16 objecting 57:6
54:4,5,20 55:9 33:13 54:7 55:24 obviously 14:14
38:14,17 modified 55:7 42:21 48:15,16 34:15
43:6,7 murdering non 5:12 8:5 Oh 25:8 44:20
48:8 11:6 14:1 N 2:1,1 3:1 nonavailability 50:8,21
37:14 52:16 narrow 11:6 46:16 ones 13:11
54:2
15:4 national 7:15,16 norms 6:7 7:4 opinion 51:25
15:12,13,16 7:21,23 7:10 13:4,5 opposite 21:4
22:6 41:2 Pennsylvania places 5:13 6:21 33:3 45:8 7:10
people 53:12 23:23 power 7:24 11:5 55:18
48:9 period 39:13 21:21 22:11 precedents projecting 29:18
40:22 please 3:10 precise 27:22 30:15 43:7
43:1 48:7 plundering 52:3 prescriptive proposition 5:15
52:13,16 point 10:15 presence 49:22 protect 9:25
3:23 5:11 30:25 32:23 preserved 22:22 15:14 21:17
22:15,16 34:25 44:23 presumably 23:22
53:22 3:5 11:2,3,16 31:2 pre-congressi... provisions 6:12
25:15 30:2,11 posed 33:2 principle 26:25 public 53:4
36:24 piloted 36:1 13:25 15:21 principles 11:6 40:20
14:5 25:13,18 26:2 26:1 37:7 prior 47:11 purport 24:7
19:3 28:18,22 29:6 43:13,19,19 private 35:5 purpose 21:4,5
50:16 29:12,13 33:23 44:9,15 45:1,3 probably 6:16 26:22 27:25
49:5 45:19 49:19 11:16 37:17 purposes 40:8
16:18 40:9 55:1,8,19,23 problem 11:13 put 44:23
pirates 25:25 55:24 56:14,20 11:15 16:20
33:21,25,25 positions 21:25 problems 17:11 qualifications
27:15 32:11 possible 4:21 5:6 17:2 45:21 question 9:9,15
10:1,12 received 3:11 15:18 25:20,25 38:8 Second 16:23
11:2,3 reciprocal 45:10 reserve 22:3 38:12 40:24 22:19 32:22
14:20 reciprocity resident 43:1 44:21 51:7,18 36:21 37:24
51:12 respect 7:10 55:20 57:21 secretly 52:25
20:11 recognize 45:4 15:22 26:24 role 3:14 section 35:1
23:3 48:20 27:1,3 32:14 round 23:3 securities 28:11
26:9,11 recognized 39:20 46:4 Royal 1:8 3:4 see 14:24 22:22
31:2,9 43:11 52:15 rule 4:8 11:17 27:6 40:7
32:1,2 recognizing respectfully 13:2,22,24 seek 27:16 30:15
39:3,11 49:2 34:19 37:12 38:1 40:4 30:16 31:21
45:14,20 reconcile 57:5 Respondents 41:14,15 44:4 33:17
record 14:14 1:20,23 2:7,11 46:12 seekers 53:6
49:5 54:13,16,17 20:20,22 22:7 rules 13:17 seeking 32:12
53:25 redress 52:5 41:4 43:20 15:19 26:4 52:4
referring 32:7 53:19 55:5 40:18 seeks 30:4
57:20 refuge 30:5 responsibility sense 13:19
4:8 5:9 relations 11:9 reverse 30:14 saying 19:21 sign 11:19
48:5 19:17 43:25 32:5 34:5 24:1 32:9 signed 11:21
44:4 45:9 47:2 revival 23:11 38:25 12:7
40:3 52:1 remaining 51:20 10:4,8 12:3,9 Scalia 7:2,21 41:14,19
remedial 24:11 12:10,13,20 18:14,25 19:10 simply 28:18
28:8 remedies 8:8,10 19:15 27:20 28:1,7,14 single 34:4,5,6
51:2 8:14,16 14:7 31:25 35:8 31:10,17 43:12 situation 9:7
57:4 14:24 21:25 37:24 38:15 43:16,22 44:6 12:11 23:22
38:18 40:16 57:3 10:23 11:1 47:8,19,20 48:3,4
46:7 remedy 30:15 19:9 44:5 48:8 56:5,10 sky 18:19
remember risk 45:9,10 scrutiny 51:11 soil 21:1 25:17
requirement River 36:2 25:7 26:3 28:3 34:21
51:21 14:24 15:9,14 6:14 22:4 35:16,25 52:7 30:18
18:24 15:6 17:16,22 suggested 31:3 T
16:14 17:8 20:15,24 21:2 suggesting 49:8 take 15:21,22
state 8:20 11:7 25:5,7 26:10 suing 3:18 4:19 29:25 57:14
19:3,22
31:7,18 31:12 32:8 suit 8:3,6 21:14 43:19 45:19
25:11,18 31:21 32:21 36:10 37:25 22:17 32:19
32:6
39:15 41:7 48:6 talked 39:8
38:10,25 34:1 43:14 42:4 43:24 Sullivan 1:19
52:19 53:10,15 2:6 22:5,6,8 17:8 35:10
47:4 48:8,13 53:25 55:12 56:21 23:9,18 24:9 48:14,17,19
53:19 stated 5:15 57:15 24:19 25:1,6 talks 40:3
57:14 56:19 step 39:23 25:11,24 26:1 Tasmania 12:6
13:1,13 statement 3:21 stimulating 27:21 28:13,16
14:10
32:24 29:1,22 30:13 tells 8:21
33:7,12 states 1:1,14,23 strength 47:1 30:24 31:16
38:21
3:12 4:10 stress 29:17 32:3,14 33:11 term 3:4
39:5,20 4:11,14,15 5:2 strongly 24:21 33:14 34:3,18
6:18,24 structured 17:9 35:11,15,21,23 territoriality
7:24,25 8:4,20 stuff 35:10 36:6,14 37:19
10:10 subject 3:16 37:22 38:3,11 territory 24:24
10:23 12:4 11:6 29:15 38:16,23 39:2 34:15
16:11 17:6,19 45:16 51:10 40:25 tests 54:21
41:10 24:15 26:25 subsidiary supplies 52:25 theoretically
47:12,15 27:8,13 28:25 16:12 supporting 1:23 33:15
28:2 30:11 32:12,12 45:13,15 suppose 6:14,15 20:22 33:25
41:3,12 42:9 24:11,14 35:3 47:6 52:24 thing 11:18 12:5
43:24 44:2,9 sue 6:17,18 supposed 34:12 things 23:16
35:16 46:9,17 47:2,3 6:9,21,22 sure 5:2 7:21 think 5:7,19,23
50:12,12 51:11,17 53:6 sues 23:23 Switzerland 10:21 11:15
56:15 57:19 46:16 Syrian 53:1,4 14:22 15:1,16
19:2,13 36:10 37:25 undermine 56:8,24,25 46:2,5 50:17
21:7 41:7 42:4 52:18 unusual 3:18 viewed 19:18
43:23 53:10,14 undermining 12:5 views 44:16
26:2 55:12 56:20 45:18 47:4 upset 35:18,19 48:12
29:2 57:15 understand 9:12 urge 34:19 vindicate 21:25
32:6 tortfeasor 3:19 23:9 28:7 use 38:1 55:10 violate 50:20
34:21 torts 19:25 30:21 33:12 U.K 14:20 15:11 55:16
36:3 torture 11:19,21 44:6 46:23 15:23,23 violated 7:25
11:24 12:6,7 understanding U.N 55:19 50:10
42:3,12 12:17,19 15:14 40:12 U.S 3:15 5:2,4 violating 12:6
43:2,8 21:16 23:21 understood 10:2 6:5,8 8:22,23 violation 5:3,24
44:18,22 27:3,10,19 uniformly 53:18 8:23 9:12,20 6:6 7:4,7,22
46:14,25 50:4,6,7,8,13 Union 8:11 31:4 10:24 17:24 10:2 11:1
50:14 56:2 56:22,23 20:25 22:2 17:17 25:21
50:6 torturer 26:13 United 1:1,14,22 24:16 25:17 violations 3:13
52:22 40:9 2:10 3:12 4:10 27:24 29:6,16 3:15 7:10
56:20 torturers 57:16 4:11,14,15 5:2 29:18 30:16 10:23 33:4
trader 40:9 5:4 6:10,18,18 32:24,25 34:8 34:8,12
33:5,16 10:9,23 12:4 45:6 51:15
57:8 30:19 17:6,19 18:9 wait 20:2
11:24 12:6,7,8 22:1,10 23:12 v 1:7 3:4 9:13,23 waived 4:2,7
trend 55:13,14 26:25 27:8,13 34:11,11 walk 47:15
21:11 7:15 32:11,12,16 Verrilli 1:21 2:9 29:17,23 41:14
25:24 tried 32:20 34:17 41:3,12 41:1,2,5,16,21 44:22 47:21
32:17 47:11 42:9,14 43:1 42:5,12,19,23 51:2
36:7 trouble 49:5 43:17,24 44:2 43:8,12,15,22 wanted 19:7
true 52:9,14 44:9 45:13,16 44:7,12,18 wants 26:14
55:14 try 27:14 32:20 49:11,12,14,23 48:10,18,25 Washington
turns 51:1 51:11,17 53:5 49:13,17,24 1:10,22
39:15 40:21 55:22 56:15,17 51:5,8 57:10
18:7,17 two 34:10 36:11 universal 6:6 vessel 29:7,9 52:8
20:14 56:3 11:25 14:1 victim 15:14 way 5:14 11:15
21:2,4,5 typical 29:2 17:17 18:13,24 21:8,13,16 11:19 13:18
28:24 19:8 26:17 23:21 32:15 16:14,25 17:8
U 27:1,9 39:24 victims 21:9 37:25 46:21
unclear 36:23 39:25 55:15 view 43:7 44:22 57:5
53:21
53:15
1
10-1491 1:6 3:4
26:10 111 22:21
38:14,14 112 22:22
12 4:8
38:9 18:3 19:21
54:15 23:11
53:20 18th 57:15
14:3 2
40:15 2 24:13
55:14,14 2002 54:15
2011 54:22
39:21 21 55:25
21:1
52:16 3
17:13,13
56:5 40 2:10
36:1
