IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MARCUS D. MIMS, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 10-1195
ARROW FINANCIAL SERVICES, LLC. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, November 28, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
SCOTT L. NELSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
SCOTT L. NELSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
SCOTT L. NELSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next this morning in Case 10-1195, Mims v. Arrow
Financial Services.
Mr. Nelson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT L. NELSON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. NELSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Federal question jurisdiction statute,
28 U.S.C. section 1331, broadly grants Federal courts
jurisdiction over all actions arising under Federal law
unless Congress has provided otherwise. That grant of
jurisdiction encompasses rights of action that are
created and governed by substantive Federal law.
The Telephone Consumer Protection Act sets
for forth such a right of action. It provides detailed
substantive standards, and it grants a private right of
action to recover for their violation. The TCPA permits
that action to be filed in a State court if State court
allows such actions, but it says nothing one way or
another about whether the action may also be filed in
Federal court.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Nelson, do you think
that there is a clear statement rule that applies when
Congress attempts to divest a Federal court of
jurisdiction over claims of this kind?
MR. NELSON: Well, sometimes the Court
has -- has talked about clear statement rules in terms
like "Congress must make unmistakably plain." I'm not
sure it rises to that level, but what the Court has said
is that jurisdiction granted by statute exists unless
Congress has affirmatively displaced it and that the
Court is unwilling to -- to defeat jurisdiction by mere
implication.
So, I think it -- it may be something a
little less than -- than what this Court has sometimes
referred to as a clear statement rule, but it is a
requirement that Congress act --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have anything more
than implication here?
MR. NELSON: No. There -- there's not even
implication here, Justice Scalia. There's -- there's
really nothing at all.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You -- you'd have --
the same private right of action that could be brought
in State court without subsection 5 at all, right?
MR. NELSON: I -- I think that's very
likely, Your Honor. I mean, under -- under Tafflin, and
going back to the -- to over a century ago in Claflin,
there's a presumption that concurrent jurisdiction over
a transitory cause of action created by Federal law
exists in State courts. But as the Court pointed out in
Tafflin, that -- that presumption has sometimes, as in
the antitrust cases, been found to have been displaced
by implication from Federal policy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the basis --
you assert that you could bring this -- bring a Federal
cause of action in Federal court.
MR. NELSON: Pardon me?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You think that you
can bring the Federal cause of action in Federal court.
MR. NELSON: Yes. I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is -- what is
the basis for -- putting aside jurisdiction, what is the
basis for the Federal cause of action?
MR. NELSON: Oh, you mean the existence of
the cause of action at all?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. Yes.
MR. NELSON: I mean -- the -- you know, what
this Court has -- has, I think, said in its
interpretation of statutes is that where a statute
creates a right of recovery from A to B in a court under
circumstances Y, that is a right of action. And the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But we -- we said
that 40 years ago. More recently, we've said that
Congress must be fairly express in creating a private
cause of action. And my -- my concern is if you put it
against that context, that our cases require fairly
direct evidence, express evidence, that Congress meant
to give a private right of action, in that context the
existence of an express State cause of action or Federal
cause of action that can only be brought in State court,
the implication that there isn't one that can be brought
on its own in Federal court is fairly strong.
MR. NELSON: Well, I think that's not
correct. I think, Your Honor, that that is actually
confusing the concept of whether there's a right of
action, which is a substantive right of recovery that
can be pursued in a court, and the question of
jurisdiction, which is in what court may that be
brought.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that -- I
understand that -- that proposition. Assuming that
distinction is correct and that there is no
free-standing Federal cause of action, what good does
having Federal jurisdiction give you?
MR. NELSON: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because I take it
that at that point everybody can immediately --
defendants can remove -- never mind. Cross that off.
What benefit do you have if as soon as you
file your action, everybody says congratulations, you
have Federal jurisdiction, and you're kicked out of
court because you have no cause of action?
MR. NELSON: Well, what I'm saying, Your
Honor, is that -- is that it is not in fact the case
that there's no right of action.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. I'm
assuming that we don't see a cause --
MR. NELSON: If there were no right of
action that -- that is available somehow in Federal
court, then, of course, it does no good to be in Federal
court. But that's not how the Court has -- has treated
rights of action. Limitations on the court in which a
right of action can be brought are not part of the right
of action. They're matters of jurisdiction.
JUSTICE ALITO: Can Congress create a cause
of action that does not arise under Federal law?
MR. NELSON: No, I don't really think it
can. Congress doesn't have the power to enact State
law. So, if Congress creates a cause of action and --
and establishes Federal law that governs it, that is
necessarily a cause of action that arises under Federal
law.
JUSTICE ALITO: And there's no dispute that
there is a cause of action here that was created by
Congress; isn't that right?
MR. NELSON: Yes, that -- that's correct. I
mean, you know, this is not an implied right of action.
It's an express right of action. Congress said in
227(b)(3) that if this right is violated, you can
recover X amount, $500 per violation or up to three
times that much in the case of a willful violation. And
the question is simply whether by saying that it may be
filed in State court, the court has -- that Congress has
displaced the jurisdiction that would otherwise be
available --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, the basic
reason seemed to me that it might mean "may," and I'm
following up on the Chief Justice here, who withdrew
this interesting part of his question. The -- the
Congress seemed to want to have ordinary people be able
to go into small claims court in a State and bring an
action for $500 because they were pestered by these
salesmen on the phone in violation of the Act.
Now, if you're right, they could go into
Federal court. But so could the defense. And so, any
case they bring in small claims court, I guess, could be
removed, couldn't it? And how is that -- am I right
about that?
MR. NELSON: It's theoretically possible
that it could be removed --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well --
MR. NELSON: -- Justice Breyer, yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why wouldn't they --
I mean, you know, if they're really pests -- I'm not
saying they're all pests; some might be. But if they're
pests and they want to drag it out, what they do is they
just remove it from small claims court. They tell their
lawyer: Remove everything, remove everything. And so,
what was Congress's objective, seemingly to provide a
simple, clear, easy thing for the average American to do
when he's pestered, suddenly becomes a major legal
problem since the defense lawyer is instructed remove
every case to Federal court. Now, that's something
that's bothering me. So, I'd like to know what your
response is.
MR. NELSON: Yes, Justice Breyer. Well,
there are several -- several parts to the answer. The
first is that -- that the strategy itself is
self-defeating. If you have a $500 claim being brought
by an individual in a small claims court, to pay a
lawyer, to pay the filing fee to remove it --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, it's not
self-defeating, because we keep it up, and the word will
get around.
MR. NELSON: Well, when you're --
JUSTICE BREYER: And in case, by the way,
anyone doubts it, before he even files it -- one of the
things that we'll instruct our salesmen to say is: If
you sue us, we're going to remove it to -- you know,
there are many ways of it getting around.
MR. NELSON: Well, Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, what's the second?
MR. NELSON: To begin with -- now I want to
-- I want to -- I want to stay on this one because --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MR. NELSON: -- before I go on to the next
one.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
MR. NELSON: The -- the reason that that
strategy doesn't really work with respect to individual
plaintiffs filing in small claims court is they're not
necessarily -- in fact, they're most likely not going to
be repeat players. So, they don't have any real way to
find out about it, absent -- absent the -- the
telemarketer telling them in the phone call that you
have a right of action, which seems even more unlikely.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure I'm
understanding your answer, because I have one of the
same problems as Justice Breyer. Of -- the design of
this statute, from what I can infer what the
congressional intent was, is for an individual person to
be able to go into small claims court. And the
defendant will usually be the telephone company that
wants to remove it to Federal court and, as
Justice Breyer said, instruct the attorneys always go to
Federal court; the word will get out. And you're
saying, oh, don't worry about that; that won't happen?
That will happen. That's exactly what's going to
happen.
MR. NELSON: Justice Kennedy, I think that
word getting out is very unlikely to happen if you're
talking about the individual, uncounseled --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Whether the word gets out
or not, they will all go to Federal court.
MR. NELSON: But -- and I'd also --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we have any
information on the -- I mean, there are small claims
courts in State court. Is there any practice of
removing $500 claims and paying much more than the $500
that's at stake?
MR. NELSON: No. No, Justice Ginsburg, and
that was the -- the second part of the answer --
JUSTICE BREYER: But is there any reason to
think before you brought this suit that people thought
they could remove it to Federal court?
MR. NELSON: Well, in fact, in the Seventh
Circuit, defendants have been aware for the past 6
years, I believe, that they can remove these claims to
Federal court. And the ones that have been removed are
large class actions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In this -- in this case,
could -- could this case have been brought in a small
claims court? Where does it come from?
MR. NELSON: It comes from Florida, Your
Honor. It could not have been brought in small claims
court for two reasons. The complaint on its face
alleges 12 calls and more, and at -- at the $1,500,
trebled -- the 500 trebled, that would far exceed the
$5,000 jurisdictional limit of a Florida small claims
court.
The action also seeks injunctive relief,
which is not available.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Aside from the
individual ones, what's actually worrying me, which I've
tried to bring out, is I'm pretty certain Congress in
this statute was trying to protect the average person
who can't afford a lawyer who is pestered with these
calls. That's their object.
And I can think that if you can bring this
suit in Federal court, so can the defendants.
MR. NELSON: And --
JUSTICE BREYER: And, therefore, I think,
gee, I'm not so sure about this. They don't gain much
advantage, the plaintiffs, by being able to go into
Federal court, and there could be some advantage on the
defense side to making things more complex, raising
legal fees. Okay?
So, that's where I am at this moment. Now,
I'm asking you this because I would like your best
answer to disabuse me of this notion which cuts against
your case.
MR. NELSON: Well, I think -- I think the
further thing that cuts against it, Justice Breyer, is
you've received three amicus briefs on the other side
from people who participate in the industry, and what
they all say repeatedly is that there are tremendous
benefits to both plaintiffs and defendants to being in
small claims court in the truly small claims.
The defendant -- you know, if the defendant
removes, it's the defendant that's going to be racking
up the legal fees, not the pro se small claims
plaintiff.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But why is that?
Wouldn't the -- I think you're fighting Justice Breyer's
hypothetical. Wouldn't the -- I can imagine if you've
got a, you know, small claim type case because you got
the -- one of these calls, and the first thing you get
is the notice of removal and this. I mean, you're going
to say forget about it; I'm not going to hire a lawyer.
Right? I mean, the idea is they would drop it right
away.
MR. NELSON: Well, I mean, the -- the
experience is, I think -- and there's an interesting
article in a -- in a publication called the Consumer
Finance Law Quarterly Report from the spring of 2002
called "Defending TCPA Actions in San Diego Small Claims
Court."
And there are some repeat players on the
plaintiffs' side in small claims court, and the advice
that the author gives is, whatever you do, don't try to
escalate with those people; don't even remove it up to
the -- to the State court of general jurisdiction,
because you're just going to find yourself in a morass;
it's going to cost you the defendant much more money to
move this claim out of small claims court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could the -- could these
claims be brought in State court as class actions?
MR. NELSON: Well, that depends, Justice
Ginsburg, on the State. As the Court probably may
recall, in the State of New York you probably couldn't
bring this action as a class action because of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you could remove it
to the Federal courts, and then you could.
MR. NELSON: Right. In Federal court, I
think that although there's -- there's actually some
disagreement among the courts of appeals on this point
between the Second and Third Circuits over whether State
procedural law would apply in Federal court, we think
the best answer is Federal procedural law applies when
the claim is brought in Federal court. Then in some
States, there has been a recent decision in New Jersey
where a New Jersey court said that a class action was
not superior for --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's up to -- it's up
to the State.
MR. NELSON: It's up to the State --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Congress --
MR. NELSON: -- if it's brought in State
court, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Congress said you bring
it according to your law and your rules of procedure.
So, the State could make it -- Congress may have been
interested in the small claims court, but it certainly
didn't limit the States to bringing -- to putting these
claims in small claims court.
MR. NELSON: No. And -- and in fact, number
one, it probably couldn't. Number two, the -- you know,
the statute creates rights to recovery and a right to
injunctive relief. That's actually the first listed
claim for relief that the private right of action gives
you. That is -- you know, injunctive relief claims are
virtually by definition beyond the scope of -- of
jurisdiction of small claims courts. So, it created a
right of action that in some instances would be
appropriate for small claims court.
And I think the incentives are that -- that
those that are really truly small claims court matters,
they'll be brought there, they'll stay there. Those
that are not, cases where it's worth litigating in
Federal court or worth litigating in a State court of
general jurisdiction and claims that may be possibly
suitable for class action status will be brought in
other types of courts, such --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Nelson, it's an odd
provision, this little clause, "if otherwise permitted
by the laws or a court of a State." What -- what is
your account of that provision and what it's doing here?
MR. NELSON: Well, I think -- I think what
it does is, principally, it displaces what would
otherwise be the rule of Testa v. Katt, that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: And why did Congress want to
do that? I mean, you would think -- and this goes back
to Justice Breyer's point -- you know, most of these
claims, they're small claims, they typically are better
situated in a State's small claims court, and yet here
Congress says, well, the State doesn't have to entertain
these, in which case they could only be brought in
Federal court.
MR. NELSON: Well, it's not clear that it
means, you know, how much freedom it gives them not to
entertain them. It may -- and again, you know, that's
an issue that the -- that the State supreme courts are
divided on, although it's a theoretical division at this
point because no State has actually precluded these
claims at this stage.
But, you know, I think that, especially read
against the backdrop of the general principle that,
while States can't discriminate against Federal rights
of action, they're also not required to create courts
that have jurisdiction over them, that what this statute
was intended to do was -- was recognize the flexibility
that the courts would have to define which courts and
under which procedures it would entertain these actions.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if the State thought
that its courts were just being overwhelmed by these
cases, even the small claims courts, there were so many
of them, would they be permitted to bar them completely?
MR. NELSON: That's a possible reading of
the statute, Justice Alito. That's what the Texas
Supreme Court has held. In fact, the Texas Supreme
Court has held that the State has to affirmatively
authorize them. Other State supreme courts have said
that what it means by "if otherwise permitted" is if
there's a court of general jurisdiction that hears cases
like this and we haven't affirmatively excluded them.
And then some State supreme courts such as Illinois have
said we don't even have the power to exclude them. But
I -- you know, that is one of the readings of the
statute.
But -- but what's clear is that the "if
otherwise permitted" does mean -- mean something.
It provides a statutory standard for when the action may
be brought in a State court, which is a matter of --
it's certainly not superfluous.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But is it just when
the action can be brought in State court or when the
action can be brought at all? It says you may bring an
action -- and that's what I understood your basis for
the Federal cause of action to be -- if it's permitted
by the law or rules of -- of a court of that State.
MR. NELSON: Well, I think what it says is
"may," may bring an action in the courts of that State
if otherwise permitted. And I think if you think about
what the -- what reason Congress would have to put "if
otherwise permitted by State laws or rules of court,"
it's very unlikely that it would use that phrase to
denote --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. NELSON: -- when you have a right of
action in Federal court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What you can
always --
MR. NELSON: -- as opposed to which State
court you would go to.
I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, if -- could an
individual -- you say there's a Federal cause of action
in this case apart from the State cause of action that's
provided. Could that Federal cause of action be brought
in State court even though the State cause of action
could not be?
MR. NELSON: Mr. Chief Justice, with all due
respect, I don't think that this statute creates a,
quote, "State cause of action." It creates a Federal --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. Let's say
you have two --
MR. NELSON: -- Federal cause of action that
may be brought in both State and Federal court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Got it, got it. But
just to follow up. The cause of action could be brought
in both, except if the State courts say it can't be
brought there. The State cause of action can't be
brought in State court because of this "if otherwise
permitted," right?
The Federal cause of action, though -- I
thought the State courts couldn't discriminate against
the Federal cause of action, any Federal cause of
action. So, you can sue in State court and say: I'm
bringing my Federal cause of action; so, the fact that
you don't permit a State cause of action doesn't bar me.
MR. NELSON: Again, I think that the premise
of the question is really not correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This goes back to
Justice Alito's point --
MR. NELSON: The statue does not create --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Justice Alito said this
claim arises under Federal law; the substantive law that
governs is not State law.
MR. NELSON: Exactly right, Justice
Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's fine.
That may be exactly right. But the cause of action
under subsection (3) asks whether or not this action --
it provides an action that can be brought in State court
if otherwise permitted, right?
MR. NELSON: It provides an action, says
that that action may be brought in State court if
otherwise permitted. That is the creation of a Federal
right of action over which State courts have
jurisdiction if their laws otherwise allow. It's not
the creation of two causes of action, one State and one
Federal.
And that's why "if otherwise permitted" may
give the States some leeway, maybe more than they would
have under Testa v. Katt, to exclude them. But it
doesn't actually affect the availability of the action
in Federal court. Although even if it did, Chief
Justice Roberts, in this case there has been no
dispute --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about --
MR. NELSON: -- that this action is
otherwise permitted by Florida law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about a
diversity action? You could not bring this action in
State court because it's contrary to the law, the rules
of the court of that State, but there's diversity. Can
you bring that diversity action in Federal court?
MR. NELSON: Well, there's a -- there's a
split in the circuits over that question at this point.
But my answer is yes, because it's -- it's a Federal
cause of action governed by substantive Federal law, as
the -- as the Second Circuit's opinion in Gottlieb held.
The implication of that is if there's any basis for
jurisdiction, whether diversity or Federal question, you
have the right of action in Federal court, and it's not
contingent on whether State law allows the -- the right
of action.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, how is that? I mean,
the description of the right of action is that it exists
only if permitted by the laws or rules of court of a
State.
MR. NELSON: I think, again, Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's --
MR. NELSON: Justice Scalia, that's --
that's a description of the conditions under which it
may be brought in State court. It's not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what is a
description of the cause of action then?
MR. NELSON: The description of the cause of
action is that if the statute is violated --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is it in the statute?
I mean, I'm reading the section --
MR. NELSON: It's in --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that says -- under
"Protection of subscriber privacy rights," subsection
(5) is entitled "Private right of action," and the only
right of action it describes is that a person who has
received more than one telephone call -- blah, blah,
blah -- "may, if otherwise permitted by the laws or
rules of court of a State, bring in an appropriate court
of that State" actions. Now, even if you say that that
cause of action is bringable in Federal court, why
wouldn't it be still governed by the laws of a State?
MR. NELSON: Well, it -- it goes to the
question again -- and back to my answer to Chief Justice
Roberts -- of what you consider "if otherwise available"
to modify. And to me, I think the most natural reading
is that it modifies "may bring in State court," because
that is the only thing that it makes sense to have State
rules of court affect.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's fine. Then where is
the creation of a private right of action bringable in
Federal court apart from State laws? Where does that
exist in this statute? I don't see it here.
MR. NELSON: It's in the section as a whole.
I think you're looking at (c)(5). (B)(3) is the one
that's actually at issue here, but its -- its phrasing
is the same. It's at 10a in the blue brief. And the
Act -- the statute as a whole creates an entitlement to
bring an action that yields certain recoveries.
And, you know, this Court has never looked
at statutory provisions that create rights of action and
say they may be brought in particular courts. It hasn't
read the reference to "may be brought in the courts" as
limiting the right of action. In Tafflin, for example,
the RICO statute says you may bring an action in Federal
court to recover damages for a violation of
that section.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, do you
know -- do you know why the Solicitor General is not
here defending the proposition that Federal law provides
a Federal cause of action that can be brought in Federal
court?
MR. NELSON: No, I don't know why. They
don't tell you, when they're not filing a brief, their
reasons why, Mr. Chief Justice. I think --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it because the FCC
once took a position that the action was limited to
State courts?
MR. NELSON: No, the FCC has never taken the
position that it's limited to State courts. They have,
in a number of things that they have written about the
statute, said in the words of the statute that an action
may be filed in State court. They have never stated one
way or another a position on the question whether it may
be filed in Federal court. In the Charvat case, they
did file an amicus brief in the Sixth Circuit, taking
the position that the right of action created by the
statute is in all respects governed by substantive
Federal law. They didn't say anything one way or
another about whether the Sixth Circuit actually had
jurisdiction. It would seem kind of odd if they took
the view that it didn't, that they wouldn't have
mentioned it. But --
JUSTICE BREYER: What happens --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you clarify one
point for me. You indicated that no State has said that
you cannot bring an action, and yet -- then you said
that Texas said it has to be specifically authorized.
Did the legislature of Texas specifically authorize it?
MR. NELSON: Yes, it --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Don't let me misstate what
you said.
MR. NELSON: It's -- the Texas legislature
has enacted statutes that says a plaintiff may go to
court and bring an action under the TCPA, in those -- in
so many words, in addition to whatever right of action
it may have under Texas law.
If there are no further questions, I'll
reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Nelson.
Mr. Garre.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Whether this Court concludes that a
12(b)(1) or a 12(b)(6) label is the better fit, it
should hold that Congress did not intend for private
TCPA claims to be brought in Federal court under 28
U.S.C. 1331. The private right of action that Congress
expressed is distinct in three different and meaningful
ways. And if you look at the right of action, which is
on page --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Garre, you don't contest
the background rule, do you, which is that when Congress
creates a cause of action, there is Federal question
jurisdiction unless Congress does something to divest
the Federal courts of that jurisdiction?
MR. GARRE: We don't, and we haven't
contested that the action here arises under
Federal law. But what you've got is the question of the
interplay between two statutes, 1331 and the private
right of action here, in the same way the Court has
dealt with the interaction between section 1983 and
other private rights of action, for example, the City of
Ranchos Palos Verdes v. Abrams case. And in that
context, the Court hasn't said, oh, if it's covered by
1983, of course you've got to bring it under -- you can
bring it under 1983 unless Congress has unmistakably
cleared that you can't.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But if you say, if you don't
contest the background principle, then the question is
whether Congress has clearly enough divested the Federal
courts of jurisdiction over this case essentially by
giving jurisdiction to the State courts. And we've had
a number of cases going the other way that suggest that
you don't divest one court of jurisdiction by giving
jurisdiction explicitly to another court. And the
question here is why is this any different, and has
Congress by granting jurisdiction to one court spoken
with the kind of clarity needed to divest the Federal
courts of their pre-existing jurisdiction?
MR. GARRE: And all of those cases dealt
with the constitutional presumption of concurrent State
court jurisdiction. And, of course, where the question
is whether the -- whether the Constitution has been
displaced, this Court has required Congress to speak
with unmistakable clarity. This case is the first case
where this Court is confronted with the question of
whether there's any similar presumption going the other
way. There's no constitutional foundation for that
presumption. It's just the interplay between statutes.
And for that reason we think the section 1983 paradigm
is more important.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But nobody has ever said
that Federal question jurisdiction as granted by 1331 is
some kind of junior sister when it comes to
jurisdiction, is some kind of weaker jurisdictional
default provision. I mean, once Congress has granted
Federal question jurisdiction by 1331, that's the
background rule. The Federal courts have jurisdiction
in the same way that the background rule is that the
State courts have jurisdiction.
MR. GARRE: Well, no. The background
rule -- the -- right. There's a background rule
provided by a statute which Congress can displace by a
later enacted more specific statute, and then there's
the background rule provided by the Constitution. And
our position is that usually when the Court talks about
Congress displacing, disrupting the traditional balance
of powers protected by the Constitution, it does require
Congress to speak with unmistakable clarity.
It doesn't apply that kind of presumption
when you're talking about an earlier more general
statute and a later more specific statute. In fact, in
that situation, the Court's general rule is that the
later more specific statute trumps the earlier more
general one. And I don't think there's any reason to
carve 1331 out, as venerable as it is.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre, do you have
any example, other than this statute which is odd -- is
there any other example of a claim that arises under
Federal law, as this does under Federal statute -- the
substantive law is Federal -- that one may not bring in
State court?
MR. GARRE: I can't cite you another
example. The Shoshone case is another anomaly. It's a
little bit different. But I think -- I think the Court
should give credit to what Congress did here. And if
you look at the right of action, it's distinct in three
different ways.
First, Congress only spoke of bringing suits
in State courts. Petitioner hasn't identified another
Federal cause of action where Congress has done -- done
that.
Second, Congress modified the entire right
of action based on "and otherwise permitted by the laws
or rules of the court of a State." Under the rules of
grammar, there's no question that that clause modifies
the "may," not anything else that follows in the
statute.
And the third way it's distinct, Justice
Ginsburg, is that Congress spoke of the limitations on
State courts and State laws before it even expressed the
violation. In the typical way that Congress expresses a
private right of action -- and I've looked at a lot of
them in the last few days -- Congress talks about the
violation, and then it at times provides as a
descriptive matter where it could be brought. Here, in
the first --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is the law any different,
the violation and the governing law, any different than
if the Attorney General had brought suit or if the FCC
sought to enforce this law? I mean, the substance of
the law -- whoever sues, the Attorney General, the FCC,
the Federal law that governs is the same, isn't it?
MR. GARRE: Well, I think there's separate
provisions that allow the State attorneys general to go
into Federal court, and the FCC has its own enforcement
authority. They aren't conditioned by this limitation.
We're talking about this private right of action.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I'm talking about the
claim of the -- the violation, the wrongful conduct is
the same whether the Attorney General is suing, whether
the FCC is enforcing.
MR. GARRE: I think the basic elements of
the cause of action are going to be the same, but State
law can limit the availability of that cause of action,
the ability to bring it in a court. And under -- for
example, by a class action rule or just saying you can't
bring those claims at all or statute of limitations.
Petitioner's view is that a plaintiff can
circumvent those limitations altogether, authorized by
Congress in the most important clause of this private
right of action, simply go into Federal court and be
gone with those limitations.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, what's the
logic of your position? Congress does a whole study
about how these harassing calls and e-mails and other
things are to citizens, and all of a sudden it's going
to limit the rights of those citizens to recover under
the Act to those States that are going to say okay. Why
even bother passing a Federal law if it was going to
give States the option to protect against this kind of
conduct alone?
MR. GARRE: Well, it created a public
Federal right. Congress all the time creates Federal
legal protections --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But generally it does.
You've just admitted --
MR. GARRE: -- but it doesn't give private
right of actions.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You've just admitted to
Justice Ginsburg nowhere else has it created a Federal
right with a private cause of action in which it's
limiting the protections of the Federal law to those
States that decide they want to do it too. I mean,
generally Congress creates a Federal right because they
don't think the States are doing enough.
MR. GARRE: And there's no question that
they would have a Federal right. And, of course, this
-- this private right of action is distinct. My point
is only it's not unusual for Congress to create a
Federal right and not provide a private right of action;
for example, under the provision in Gonzaga v. Doe --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Unquestionably. But
it's -- it is unusual for them to create a Federal right
with a cause of action and then limit its application to
those States that say it's okay. I go back to my
question --
MR. GARRE: Well, it wouldn't --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why not simply say to
the States, please, do something about this problem?
MR. GARRE: I think that -- I would point
you to the statutory findings and, if you thought it
appropriate, look at Senator Hollings' statement as
well. And the reason why it makes sense is Congress is
dealing with a situation that, when it acted, the vast
majority of States had passed laws to allow consumers to
deal with this problem at the State level. They
identified this interstitial void that Your Honor spoke
about in your opinion on the Second Circuit, and
Congress acted to close that enforcement loophole to
authorize States to allow consumers to go after
interstate calls.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre, was it really
a loophole? What would -- I mean, if this -- if conduct
-- if the telemarketers are calling from out of State,
but the impact is in the State, the person who is being
called, it seems to me that there certainly would be
jurisdiction over the out-of-State tortfeasor who's
doing something out of State that has this impact. It
targets the State, and it has its impact.
MR. GARRE: I've struggled over that, too,
Justice Ginsburg, but the one thing I can say is that
Congress perceived that enforcement gap that's
identified in the statutory findings reproduced in the
addendum here. And Congress, you would presume, acted
to fill the gap that it saw, and it did this by keeping
it at the State level, keeping in mind that we're
talking about something with an enormous potential for
volumes of claims.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, this is the part
that's worrying me. On your side, it's hard, and it's
an unusual statute, but the -- certainly -- and I agree
with you that the language of the statute suggesting a
kind of reverse pre-emption, something like that, and
certainly Senator Hollings' comment, and certainly the
fact that they specifically provide for an attorney
general to bring an action in State court suggests that
they wanted the smaller private actions in State -- I
mean, in Federal court -- in State court; that favors
you.
All right. But then I thought, as you were
speaking, what about diversity jurisdiction? And -- and
I don't see why there wouldn't diversity jurisdiction in
terms of trying to get these out-of-State people. And
if there's diversity jurisdiction, why in heaven's name
would they want to say but there is no "arising under"
jurisdiction?
MR. GARRE: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, I'm -- so, I'm pushed
the other way by that. So -- so, what do you think?
What do you think?
MR. GARRE: Well, ultimately, all of the
Federal circuits that have grappled with this problem
have concluded that recognizing diversity jurisdiction
isn't fundamentally incompatible with saying there's no
Federal question jurisdiction, for a couple of reasons.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know. But why, if you
were sitting in Congress and somebody did tell you --
Senator Hollings apparently never thought of this -- but
say to Senator Hollings, Senator, there will be
diversity jurisdiction here. And he, when he thinks
about it, says, hey, great, that's wonderful, because
these people are all in State A, and they're phoning
people in State B.
Now, if that was his reaction, then someone
would say what about "arising under" jurisdiction? And
what I'm thinking is, if I imaginatively put myself in
his position, I think, huh, why not?
MR. GARRE: For two reasons, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: What?
MR. GARRE: The first is amount in
controversy. Diversity has an amount in controversy
requirement of $75,000, which makes it more likely,
where a plaintiff has that, it would be in a situation
where it would incur the costs of an attorney and other
expenses to go into Federal court. Federal question has
no amount in controversy after --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's true. So, there's a
"flooding the courts" problem.
MR. GARRE: Exactly, and the amount in
controversy checks that.
The second reason is that, to the extent
that Congress created this unique Federal right and
intended it to behave like State laws, as Judge
Calabresi described it on the Second Circuit, then it's
more natural to think of diversity jurisdiction allowing
the Federal courts to entertain what is in effect a
State cause of action than it would be for Federal
question jurisdiction where you have the anomalous
situation of someone going into Federal court and saying
I'm not bound by the State law limitations, for example,
the limitation on the class action, because I can bring
this Federal private right of action under Federal
question for $500 wherever it is. I mean --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about supplemental
jurisdiction? Which says it doesn't have an amount in
controversy.
MR. GARRE: We would put that in the same
category of diversity, which is to say -- I mean,
ultimately, I think it -- particularly if you look at
this as the private right of action, Congress did not
express a private right of action for someone to go into
Federal court here. If this Court looked at it through
the lens of its private right of action jurisprudence,
the Court would say, I would think, you did not confer a
private right of action to go into Federal court in the
unique way that you express it here.
If the question was, if this private right
of action said you can sue an in-State company and a
plaintiff came here saying, well, it says in-State but
they didn't say you can't sue an out-of-State, this
Court would say, no, Congress said in-State; we --
that's the private right of action it created.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Congress -- Congress
also -- it made -- for attorney general suits, it said:
And Federal court jurisdiction is exclusive. So, it's
given Federal court exclusive jurisdiction to adjudicate
this claim, because the claim, as you -- I think as you
recognize, is the same whether it's brought by the FCC,
the attorney general, or private. So, if you use the
word "exclusive" there, it said nothing in this private
right of action about the State courts being exclusive.
MR. GARRE: And I think on that -- I mean,
first, it makes sense that they would authorize Federal
jurisdiction for the State attorney generals' actions
because they authorized the FCC to intervene there. It
also makes sense that they said "exclusive" there
because there they were dealing with the constitutional
presumption that State courts have concurrent
jurisdiction unless Congress affirmatively says they
don't. This Court had decided Tafflin a year earlier.
And so, it -- to give Congress its due, it would make
sense if you presume they're aware of this Court's
decisions, that it would say "exclusive" there. The
constitutional --
JUSTICE ALITO: You -- you seem to be
arguing for a three-tier standard for displacing
jurisdiction. So, if Congress wants to make a Federal
claim cognizable only in Federal court, it has to be
very, very clear. If it wants to displace diversity
jurisdiction, it doesn't have to be that clear, but
maybe it has to be certain -- clear to a certain degree.
If it wants to displace Federal question jurisdiction,
it doesn't have to be nearly as clear.
MR. GARRE: But we're not.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what --
MR. GARRE: We're certainly not arguing for
a distinction between diversity and Federal question.
And ultimately, if pushed, we would take the position
that because Congress was clear it wasn't authorizing
suit in Federal court, we think diversity should go,
too.
My response to Justice Breyer was that it --
it's a closer call because of the -- the amount in
controversy and the extent to which Congress created a
right --
JUSTICE SCALIA: When there is suit in
Federal court, let's say these attorney general suits,
what are the suit -- what is the suit governed by? Is
it governed by State law?
MR. GARRE: I think it would be governed by
Federal law. I think to the extent there's a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I mean, I -- Federal
law mirroring State law?
MR. GARRE: No, because the -- the public
right of action isn't conditioned the same way that the
private right of action is. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's the authority to
enforce, right?
MR. GARRE: If you look at the public right
of action, it's not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Civil actions brought under
the subsection.
MR. GARRE: Right. The public right of
action isn't brought under (b)(3), which is a private
right of action. And the anomalies arise when you think
of allowing these claims in Federal court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, you have a different --
a different -- a different law applied if -- and the
State law limitations don't apply if it's a suit in
Federal court by -- by an attorney general?
MR. GARRE: The State law limitations apply
to the private right of action. The Congress didn't
say, here's the Federal --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, it's so weird. I
can't understand that.
MR. GARRE: But, Your Honor, it's only weird
if you say they can bring the private right of action in
Federal court. If you say that Congress meant these to
be limited to State court, it makes perfect sense.
Congress was making clear: States, you have authority
to address this problem; you can address it under your
own law and rules of court.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I think, Mr. Garre, what
Justice Ginsburg and Justice Alito were suggesting, is
that this is a momentous thing for Congress to do to, to
deprive the Federal courts of jurisdiction over a cause
of action that has been created by Congress and a cause
of action that has Federal law as the rule of decision.
The usual presumption is that, of course, Federal courts
have jurisdiction over those matters under section 1331.
And this is one peculiar way of divesting
those Federal courts of jurisdiction. Obviously,
Congress knew how to write an exclusive jurisdiction
statute. It didn't here. So, why should we give
Congress the benefit of the doubt and sort of say, well,
Congress must have had something else in mind, even
though Congress didn't articulate that?
MR. GARRE: And if Congress has to say
"exclusive," then we lose. I'm not arguing otherwise.
But I think our position is, is what Congress did here
was unmistakably different and clear enough. And the
flip side of what you've just said is to say that
Congress meant nothing when it went out of its way to
create what all agree is an extraordinarily unique
private right of action.
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, I don't think that's
right because this is not superfluous, because of the
that provision that, you know, the Testa provision which
says that State courts don't have to entertain this
cause of action. So, in the usual case, State courts
would have to entertain this cause of action. Here,
Congress is saying, no, if they feel as though that
would deluge State courts, they have an out.
MR. GARRE: And if Congress had intended
that, Your Honor, I think the more natural way for it to
have said would -- would have been something like, in an
action brought in State court, it may be limited by the
laws or rules of that court. Here Congress cabined the
entire right of action: "may" comma -- subordinate
clause which modifies the "may." And there's just -- in
any other case, I think, Your Honor, the Court would
read the "if otherwise permitted" clause as modifying
the "may" and, therefore, the entire right of action.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can Congress create a
Federal -- can Congress in effect delegate to the States
the contours of a -- a Federal cause of action? I mean,
you keep talking about it as a Federal cause of action.
MR. GARRE: I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it's not really, if --
if its existence or non-existence depends upon State
law; or at least it depends upon State law, you say, if
it's brought in State courts; however, if it's brought
in Federal court by the Attorney General, you have a
totally different law applying, a Federal law.
MR. GARRE: I think in the Shoshone case
Congress created a right of action whose content was --
was supplied by State law. So --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In which case? I
didn't --
MR. GARRE: The Shoshone Mining case.
It's -- it's cited in our brief.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But that is not this case.
MR. GARRE: No --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Nobody thinks that that's
this case.
MR. GARRE: No, but we're not saying that
this case is on fours with that case, but I think it's
an example where State law would fill the content of the
Federal right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why wouldn't the --
the problem that Justice Scalia just identified or you
were talking about suggest -- actually favor their side,
that that "in conformity with State law" is talking
about procedure?
I mean, imagine that State law has a 2-year
limitation period or a 1-year. You see -- I don't know
what the limitation period is here. It may be longer.
And so, what happens is where you go into -- if the
attorney general brings the action, you're going to say
it's 4 years, but if it's in a State court and a private
person, it would be 1 year? That doesn't seem to me to
make sense.
It then seems to make sense if you interpret
that provision as saying what court you could go into in
the State. If the State permits you to go to the
superior court or the small claims court or the -- in
other words, procedural rules.
MR. GARRE: Well, and Congress didn't just
say "procedure," it said "laws or rules of court of the
State."
JUSTICE BREYER: It did, but look what --
well, how do you get out of the mess then -- what
happens when the State attorney general brings an action
in a Federal court, as he is permitted to do? What
statute of limitation or substantive rule do you apply?
MR. GARRE: It would be the general 4-year
Federal statute of limitations. I mean, the way --
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's now really odd
because we are then going to get different statutes of
limitations, depending upon whether a State attorney
general or an individual --
MR. GARRE: But it's not odd if you give
effect to the language of (b)(3), which in a sense says
we're going to leave this up to the States. Congress
contemplated through this language that there could be
50 different rules about how private TCPA claims would
be brought in State court. I think that's undisputed.
The question is whether or not you --
plaintiffs can just say I want out of that and go into
Federal court, and conversely whether a defendant can
remove any claim brought in State court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm having --
MR. GARRE: -- into Federal court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Im sorry. I'm
having trouble, Mr. Garre, figuring out what exactly is
at issue here. It seems to me that there are two
possible views on it. First is, is there Federal
jurisdiction over one of these actions? The second of
all is, is there a private right of action apart from
the one that can be brought under subsection (b)(3),
which is one in State court?
MR. GARRE: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, which -- which
are we supposed to decide? I can see the Federal
question jurisdiction issue being straightforward.
Federal law creates this cause of action; therefore, you
can say that it is -- under 1331, there's jurisdiction,
but then you can't do anything once you're in Federal
court because the private right of action is limited to
State court.
MR. GARRE: And our position is ultimately
both are at issue. Certainly, the focus of this case
has been on the jurisdictional question, which is the
12(b)(1). But if the Court thinks that there's Federal
jurisdiction, then it should say the cause of action
fails under 12(b)(6) because both arguments are based on
the same exact statutory language.
This Court has recognized, for example, in
the Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals case, that the
availability of a private right of action intersects
with jurisdiction. The Court recognized the same point
in the National Passengers Association case, 414 U.S.
453.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's go back to the --
this -- this claim -- unlike the Shoshone Mining, this
claim arises under Federal law. There's no question
about that, is there?
MR. GARRE: We don't dispute that, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Okay. So, Federal law
creates the cause of action, and when Federal law
creates the cause of action, the rule has always been
there's 1331 jurisdiction.
MR. GARRE: Unless a later-enacted statute
precludes that rule. And here the later-enacted statute
doesn't win it --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the later-enacted
statute doesn't say that Federal law no longer creates
the cause of action.
MR. GARRE: The later-enacted statute
creates the cause of action. Federal -- 1331 doesn't
create a cause of action. It's jurisdictional only.
They need to have a cause of action.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You have jurisdiction
when Federal law creates a cause of action.
MR. GARRE: Unless it has been displaced by
a later-enacted provision. And I --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Garre, do you have any
examples of that, places where we've said Congress has
divested the court of Federal question jurisdiction and
by what means?
MR. GARRE: I don't have an example in 1331.
I have do have section 1983, which I think is a perfect
parallel, because there you've got a venerable, general
provision, section 1983, which is actually older than
1331, and the question comes along from time to time
whether a later-enacted Federal right can be enforced
through 1983. And the Court, in that context, says
although we generally presume that you can go through
1983, if there's a later-enacted specific enforcement
mechanism, we give the facts of that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: And how specific does it
have to be? I mean, how vague are we willing to go here
and say, okay, Congress has done a good enough job
because somehow we have some idea that they wanted these
cases to end up in small claims court?
MR. GARRE: I think, if you look at the City
of Rancho Palos Verdes case, which I would encourage you
to look at, I think it doesn't have to be nearly as
specific as my friend is claiming.
I think you look at all signposts of
congressional intent. Here you've got the language
which is unmistakably distinctive. The State-law,
State-court-focused. You've got a structure of an act
where Congress, when it wants concurrent jurisdiction or
Federal jurisdiction, it says so. It provides the rules
for venue and what not. You've got legislative
statutory findings indicating that Congress both was
aware of the vast volumes of calls which could create
potential claims, wanting to address a particular
problem of an enforcement gap at the State level. And
then if you choose to look at it, you've got the
legislative history of the sponsor of this very unusual
provision saying --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When Congress creates a
Federal claim, it usually doesn't. I mean, the
assumption is that it's going to be concurrent
jurisdiction.
MR. GARRE: Yes, and we're not -- I mean,
the question is whether or not that assumption should be
displaced here, and we're saying that Congress's
expressions of intent displace it here. And, again, I
think if Petitioner --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can we go back to your
1983 example? Because I was thinking about that, and
you said, well, the later specific statute is another
Federal statute. You have -- Congress has another
Federal statute that makes the more general 1983 not
available because you have the more specific Federal
statute.
MR. GARRE: And I think that's why the
parallel seems apt to us here. You -- instead of
dealing with Congress displacing case -- State court
jurisdiction with constitutional presumption, you have
an earlier-enacted Federal statute, 1331, and the
later-enacted statute, the TCPA private right of action
here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but the difference is
that the 1983 cases don't deal with what this deals
with, which is displacement of the jurisdiction of
Federal courts. And we are jealous of our jurisdiction,
not only in the constitutional cases that you refer to,
but in all cases.
And I had thought that the general rule that
you have to be clear when you take cases out of the
Federal courts -- I thought that that applies not just
where you're dealing with a constitutional jurisdiction
but also where you're dealing with already-conferred
statutory jurisdiction. And why shouldn't I apply that
presumption?
MR. GARRE: But I think this Court has a
more generous attitude toward section 1983. And I think
in your opinion in the Rancho Palos Verdes case, you
spoke of a rebuttable presumption that Congress doesn't
mean to -- to displace section 1983, but yet you found
it there because of a specific enforcement mechanism. I
think the enforcement mechanism here is much more
specific and meaningful than even the one in the Rancho
Palos Verdes --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It didn't deal with the
jurisdiction of Federal courts. That's what gets our
hackles up --
MR. GARRE: It did not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- when you're telling us
we have been ousted of jurisdiction.
MR. GARRE: It did not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We don't like that.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I -- we've
been talking about where this provision fits, basically,
into our general jurisprudence in this area. But I've
never seen a statute remotely like this before. Is
there any one, where you have a Federal -- where you
have Congress creating a cause of action that can be
brought in State courts unless the State court says it
can't, saying nothing at all about whether there's a
Federal cause of action? This is the strangest statute
I've ever seen.
MR. GARRE: We totally agree, but I think
the important point from our perspective is either
Congress meant what it said, and this Court should give
effect to what it said in its very distinct and unusual
way, or it's rendered, you know, largely meaningless,
except in the most generalized sense, because if
Petitioner's right, you can bring a claim in State or
Federal court. The claim that you bring in Federal
court is in no way limited -- limited by the laws or
rules of a State court. And all of the stuff that
Congress said about the State courts and the
State-law-focused language at the very beginning of its
cause of action is meaningless, because Congress didn't
have to say any of this to authorize people to go into
State court under concurrent jurisdiction conferred by
the Constitution.
And our position is, is that this Court
should give effect to the words in the private right of
action, distinct as it is, that Congress created, and
hold that Congress did not intend for plaintiffs to be
able to bring -- to circumvent these limitations by
going into Federal court under 1331.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me why
you seem to be taking somewhat contradictory positions?
You seem to be conceding that this is not a Federal
subject matter jurisdiction issue, but the scope of the
cause of action that was created. The judgment was on
the basis of lack of Federal subject matter
jurisdiction. Aren't you trying to alter the judgment?
And didn't you need to cross-petition to do that?
MR. GARRE: Well, I probably wasn't clear
enough, Justice Sotomayor. Our position is that
ultimately there is no Federal question jurisdiction;
that although it arises under 1331, the specific
provision here was never intended to be enforced through
1331 and, instead, was only authorizing State courts.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you're saying that a
State could, if it chose, say we're only going to award
actual damages, not the $500 statutory --
MR. GARRE: No, I don't think the State
could actually alter what Congress said. It can -- it
can alter, as Congress said, the ability to bring a
right of action.
Now, I do think this Court could affirm --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it can. It could
choose not to enforce that Federal right of action.
MR. GARRE: And in that case, a private
citizen would go to a State attorney general and say
bring this action on behalf, or go to the FCC and bring
an enforcement action. There are public rights --
public ways to enforce that.
Just to be clear, we think this Court could
affirm on the alternative ground of 12(b)(6), that there
is Federal question jurisdiction, but this private right
of action doesn't confer a right to go into -- into
Federal court. My friend has said that that position
has been waived. Under 12(h) of the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure, we haven't waived 12(b)(6); we just
haven't asserted yet.
It's clear that Federal courts can convert
12(b)(1) motions into 12(b)(6) motions, and there'd be
no reason for this Court to remand simply for us to
assert a 12(b)(6) -- put a 12(b)(6) label on the same
position that we would be back before the courts
arguing, transforming judicial review into something
close to a ping-pong game.
JUSTICE ALITO: Wouldn't that be the oddest
creature that's ever been seen, a cause of action
created by Congress that is not a claim arising under
Federal law? That's what you'd be saying.
MR. GARRE: No, it would be a claim arising
under Federal law without a private right to bring it in
Federal court. And it would be odd, Your Honor, and our
position -- we agree with our friends -- that this is an
odd statutory provision. We ask this Court to give
effect to its language, which both sides agree is odd
but, we think, points to the conclusion that Congress
meant for these claims to be brought in State court and
not in Federal court under Federal question
jurisdiction.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But I guess that's the
question, Mr. Garre. If both sides agree it's odd, and
all nine Justices agree it's odd, I mean, I think we can
say this statute is odd. And the question is, where do
we go from there? And where -- you know, what's the
default position? If it's odd and we can't figure it
out, the default position seems to be Federal courts
have jurisdiction over Federal questions.
MR. GARRE: But I think that that
deprives -- yes, it's odd, but it's odd in a way that
one must presume that Congress actually meant what --
what it was doing in several different ways here. I
think it gets to a point where you just can't presume
that Congress didn't mean the impact of its words here.
So, we would urge this Court to give effect to them.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Nelson, you have
4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT L. NELSON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. NELSON: I want to start where Justice
Kagan left off, which is the presumption of the
existence of Federal jurisdiction unless Congress
affirmatively displaces it.
My friend suggested that that may not apply
or may not apply as strongly when we're talking about
Federal statutory jurisdiction and specifically 1331.
But this Court's decision in Colorado River, cited in
our reply brief, says exactly the opposite: that a
subsequent more specific Federal statute does not
displace the general grant of Federal jurisdiction under
1331, absent -- absent some clearer indication than the
mere existence of an optional State court jurisdiction
over the claim.
As to the oddness of the statute, a point on
which we all seem to now agree, the point I would make
there is I think that Respondent's position makes this
statute even odder, because it suggests that somehow
"may" means it may only be brought in Federal court, yet
it doesn't mean it may only be brought in Federal court
if there's diversity or 1367.
But as Judge Easterbrook said in Brill, if
"may" really means "may" only, then it wipes out
diversity and 1367 as well.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are you arguing only
about "arising under" jurisdiction or are you arguing
also about a Federal cause of action that can be brought
in Federal court? In other words, I am trying to figure
out what we're being asked to decide in this odd case.
I understand the idea -- and I'm sorry to take up your
time -- I understand the idea that this is a Federal
question because it's created by a Federal law.
Can you go -- get into Federal court, and
then we'll have another case about whether you can bring
a cause of action there?
MR. NELSON: Well, I certainly hope not,
Your Honor. I mean, I think if you look at what the
question presented is and what the judgment below is,
it's a question of subject matter jurisdiction, a
12(b)(1) dismissal, and a question presented as to the
existence of 1331. But, you know, our point is not to
get people into Federal court so that they can be told
that they have no right of action. And the answer to
that point is that the -- the reference to State courts
in the provision is not a limitation on the right to
recovery.
Congress often actually creates rights of
action that refer to a particular court. It's -- it's
the Federal court in -- in every case but this one. But
as in RICO, as in the Carmack Amendment that was the
subject of the 1912 case of Galveston, Harrisburg, and
San Antonio Railway cited in our briefs, where the
Carmack Amendment said that persons damaged might make
complaint in any circuit or district court of the United
States. And the Communications Act provisions that we
cite on page 10 of our reply say people have certain
rights to recover, and they may bring them in Federal
court.
But those references to the courts have
never been considered to be a limit on the right of
action. Creating the ability to go into a court and
obtain a recovery creates a right of action, and it's
transitory; it can be brought in any court of competent
jurisdiction. And the reference in the statute to a
court that has jurisdiction over it does not mean that
the -- that the cause of action somehow does not exist
outside of that court.
The cause of action exists, and the question
is, is whether there's a jurisdictional basis. And
that's practically at this point, I think, been
conceded, that this statute arises under Federal law.
And there's really no indication whatsoever that merely
by saying "may" be brought in State court, that Congress
intended to displace Federal jurisdiction or to create a
right of action that, uniquely among Federal rights of
action, is only available in the State court.
Now, it's true, "may" -- or "if otherwise
permitted," as my friend said, modifies "may," but it
doesn't just modify "may" in isolation. It's "may"
what? May if otherwise permitted bring an action in
State court. So, the "if otherwise permitted" modifies
the conditions on which the action may be brought in
State court. But it really makes no sense whatsoever to
import State court rules into whether the action is
available in a Federal court.
Now --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except that that's the only
section that creates a private right of action.
MR. NELSON: That's right. The private
right of action is created, but the private right of
action is not contingent on that "if." It's the ability
to bring it in State court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:04 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
58:7 37:20,24 38:8 55:2,3 56:12 applied 40:15 36:11 38:1,6
40:2,3,7,11,12 Alito 7:19 8:2 applies 4:1 38:11 39:19
52:16 41:10 42:2,7,8 38:22 39:7 apply 15:12 44:6,20 45:2
59:18 42:24 43:8 Alito's 20:23 44:22 50:16 attorneys 11:9
47:3,4,11,13 33:17,22 appropriate authority 31:7
24:9 32:5 52:8,14,22 allows 3:22 apt 49:24 25:25 33:22
58:1 53:13,16,19,20 22:16 area 51:13 38:10 52:9
56:23 57:6,14 50:15 39:8 41:21 25:24 31:20
58:12,14,21,22 53:11,12 argument 1:12 authorizing
5:3,10,13 59:1,3,5,9,11 alternative 2:2,5,8 3:3,7 39:11 53:6
6:4 59:12 53:23 26:14 55:20 availability
actions 3:13,22 altogether 31:20 arguments 21:21 31:15
12:9 14:15 Amendment 46:13 46:17
15:1 18:2 57:21,24 arises 7:25 21:1 available 7:13
8:3,6,7,21 23:16 32:15 American 9:14 27:7 29:19 8:14 12:21
12:20 34:24 38:11 amicus 13:18 46:23 53:4 23:21 49:21
16:9 40:8 45:20 25:12 58:17 58:22 59:6
17:23 actual 53:9 amount 8:9 36:7 arising 3:13 average 9:14
19:1 addendum 36:8,13,16 35:7 36:2 12:25
34:11 37:7 39:15 54:14,16 56:22 award 53:8
addition 26:7 anomalies 40:12 Arrow 1:6 3:4 aware 12:6
address 41:3,3 anomalous article 14:13 38:19 49:1
49:2 36:25 articulate 41:19 a.m 1:13 3:2
adjudicate 38:3 anomaly 29:24 aside 5:16 12:22
32:16 11:2 12:1 asking 13:13 b 5:24 24:6
advantage 13:8 13:14 15:13 asks 21:8 35:25 40:11
13:9 22:10 23:20 assert 5:9 54:8 45:5,22
24:2,10 advice 14:18 57:14 asserted 54:4 back 5:1 17:6
affect 21:21 antitrust 5:6 Association 20:22 23:20
23:25 Antonio 57:23 46:19 33:7 46:21
affirm 53:14,23 apart 19:22 24:3 assuming 6:20 49:16 54:9
affirmatively 45:21 7:11 backdrop 17:21
4:9 18:10,14 apparently assumption 49:9 background
38:16 55:25 35:20 49:12 27:2,19 28:23
32:18,25 afford 13:1 appeals 15:10 attempts 4:2 28:24 29:1,2,5
34:23 ago 5:1 6:2 APPEARAN... attitude 50:19 balance 29:7
23:15,23 24:10 57:24 24:10 39:3,3 45:13 46:22,23
22:13 34:23 37:3 12:10,11 13:15 34:21,21 39:8 claims 4:3 8:20
58:15 40:24 52:2,3 14:5 17:11 46:9 57:7 8:25 9:11,24
3:8 57:5 58:3 59:1 28:10,10 29:24 Chief 3:3,9 4:21 12:14,18 13:22
53:19 59:13 42:7,18 43:7 5:8,12,15,20 13:22,25 14:15
bringable 23:17 43:10,12,14,17 6:1,19,25 7:10 14:18,24 15:1
brings 44:6,20 53:17 56:25 21:6,22,25 18:5 26:21
9:23 12:3,11 16:18 18:5,13 45:16,25 51:11 49:2 54:23
10:1,5 38:5 40:8,11 19:3,21,22,23 circuits 15:11 42:17,19
42:14 43:4,4 19:24 20:3,6,9 22:9 35:14 clear 4:1,5,14
12:2,22 45:9,13,22 20:11,14,16,16 Circuit's 22:12 9:14 17:13
25:20 51:17 54:23 20:18,19 21:7 circumstances 18:19 39:1,2,3
35:10,18 56:15,16,23 22:11 23:3,4 5:25 39:5,11 41:2
58:9,19 59:3 23:17 24:22 circumvent 41:23 50:12
43:22 27:3 30:6 31:20 52:16 53:1,22 54:5
C 31:14,15 32:18 cite 29:23 58:2 cleared 27:17
cabined 42:15 41:8,9 42:7,8 57:23 clearly 27:20
43:13 call 10:24 23:13 46:12 47:3,4 citizens 32:3,4 54:11
39:15 47:11,13,14,15 City 27:12 48:14 closer 39:15
34:3 52:8,22 54:13 Claflin 5:1 38:25
12:24 14:6 32:2 causes 21:16 16:9 21:1 comes 12:13
48:3 27:2,4,16,20 contested 27:7 19:4,9,14,18 27:22 28:4,23
31:21 32:1,10 22:16 59:12 22:15,20 23:1 41:14 42:6,7
33:21 34:9,11 contradictory 23:25 24:3,11 50:8,13 51:3
38:16,18,24 controversy 26:18,21 27:10 55:7 57:15
49:25 50:21 counsel 24:19 39:12,19 40:13 created 3:16 5:3
38:15 52:8,14,15 59:14,15 41:4 42:14,15 25:13 32:9,17
49:9 53:11,12 54:14 couple 35:17 42:18 43:5 36:19 37:24
54:22 55:11,14 course 7:14 44:7,11,13,13 39:16 41:9
40:2 58:19 32:24 41:11 45:12,13,15,23 54:14 57:3
11:5 48:19 3:10,21,21,24 46:18 47:22 creates 5:24
33:25 49:13 4:23 5:4,10,13 50:18 51:17,23 20:3 24:9 27:3
considered 58:6 6:16,17 7:6,14 52:17 53:14,22 47:3,4,10,13
52:11 8:25 9:11,17 56:9,15,16,24 59:9
28:6,13 38:14 11:6,8,10,18 57:25 58:4,7,9 51:16 58:7
Consumer 3:17 13:4,9,22 courts 3:12 5:4 creature 54:13
6:3 consumers 15:1,3,8,12,14 16:12,22 17:16 Cross 7:2
7:19,22,23 33:17,22 15:16,23 16:2 17:23 18:1,1,4 cross-petition
contemplated 16:4,14,16,19 18:5,11,15 52:25
15:21,24 45:7 16:19,25 17:9 19:6 20:10,15 cuts 13:14,17
17:5,10 content 43:8,20 17:12 18:9,10 21:14 24:13,14
26:20,22 contest 27:1,19 18:13,22,25 25:4,6 27:5,21 D
Diego 14:15 47:22 17:15 18:2 expressions
28:1 29:25 division 17:17 42:16,20 39:16,23
49:25 40:14,15,15 doing 17:1 32:22 entitlement 24:9 42:1
41:23 43:6 34:5 55:12 escalate 14:20 e-mails 32:2
56:25 disagreement drag 9:10 essentially 27:21 fact 7:8 10:21
56:4 17:22 20:15 D.C 1:8,15,17 evidence 6:6,6 34:22
39:1,4 49:14 E 2:1 3:1,1 21:3,7 36:16 fairly 6:3,5,11
displaced 4:9 earlier-enacted 27:12 29:18,19 favors 34:25
45:12 5:6 8:13 28:9 50:2 29:24 31:17 FCC 25:2,5
13:4,21 displacement 56:18 43:20 46:15 31:12 38:5,12
displaces 17:3 effect 36:23 examples 47:21 Federal 3:11,12
13:10 displacing 29:7 51:24 52:13 exclude 18:16 5:3,7,9,10,13
39:9 encourage 48:15 56:9 57:12 17:12,22 19:3
23:3 36:8,22 37:10 31:6 33:21 explicitly 27:25 22:15 23:17
39:1,9,12 34:9 48:7 49:3 express 6:3,6,8 24:3,16,21,22
27:3,5,8 files 10:6 gain 13:7 11:15 Gonzaga 33:3
28:3,18 filing 9:25 10:20 Galveston 57:22 Ginsburg 11:20 good 6:22 7:14
29:20 24:25 game 54:11 11:25 12:10 48:11
30:6 fill 34:12 43:20 gap 34:9,12 49:3 14:25 15:3,6 Gottlieb 22:12
32:6 Finance 14:14 Garre 1:17 2:6 15:18,21,24 governed 3:16
Financial 1:6 26:13,14,16 20:22,25 21:4 22:11 23:18
33:2 3:5 27:1,6 28:5 21:5 25:2 25:14 39:20,21
34:25 find 10:23 14:22 29:1,17,23 29:17 30:15,23 39:22
36:12 findings 33:13 31:4,13,25 31:9 32:17 governing 30:24
34:10 48:25 32:9,14,23 33:24 34:8 governs 7:24
fine 21:6 24:1 33:9,12,24 37:6,25 41:6 21:2 31:3
first 9:22 14:6 34:7 35:9,13 46:21 47:2,9 grammar 30:11
39:4,9 16:8 28:10 36:5,7,16 37:9 47:16 49:7,16 grant 3:14 56:7
30:4,22 36:7 38:9 39:6,8,22 give 6:7,23 granted 4:8
38:10 45:19 40:1,6,10,18 21:19 30:1 28:18,21
fit 26:19 40:23 41:5,20 32:7,14 38:18 granting 28:2
fits 51:12 42:11,25 43:7 41:16 45:4 grants 3:12,19
flexibility 17:25 43:12,15,18 48:8 51:23 grappled 35:14
45:12 flip 41:24 44:15,23 45:4 52:13 54:20 great 35:23
46:1 flooding 36:15 45:15,17,24 55:15 GREGORY
Florida 12:13,18 46:8,25 47:6 given 38:3 1:17 2:6 26:14
22:2 47:12,18,20,24 gives 14:19 16:9 ground 53:23
48:4 focus 46:9 48:14 49:11,23 17:14 guess 8:25 55:1
49:8,19 follow 20:9 50:18 51:5,8 giving 27:22,24
50:2 following 8:17 51:21 53:1,10 go 8:20,23 10:15 H
51:3 follows 30:12 53:17 54:16 11:6,9,18 13:8 hackles 51:4
52:3 forget 14:8 55:2,9,17 19:18 26:5 happen 11:11,12
forth 3:18 gee 13:7 31:5,22 33:7 11:13,15
found 5:6 50:22 general 14:21 33:22 36:12 happens 25:20
foundation 16:20 17:21 37:13,17 39:12 44:5,20
28:13 18:13 24:20 44:5,11,12 harassing 32:2
56:3 fours 43:19 29:11,13,15 45:11 46:21 hard 34:17
freedom 17:14 30:25 31:2,5 48:6,10 49:16 Harrisburg
57:2 free-standing 31:11 34:23 52:9 53:18,19 57:22
6:22 38:1,6 39:19 53:25 55:5 hear 3:3
friend 48:17 40:17 43:5 57:4 58:7 hears 18:13
54:1 56:1 44:6,20,23 goes 17:6 20:22 heaven's 35:6
26:9 generally 32:12 28:12 31:14 hold 26:20 52:15
25:9,11 26:14 getting 10:9 53:8 7:8 12:14
33:19 injunctive 12:20 4:8,10 5:2,16 18:3,8,24 Kennedy 11:1
42:12,18 16:8,10 6:17,23 7:5,18 19:12,15,20 11:14,17 25:21
54:18 instances 16:13 8:13 14:21 20:1,4,8,22,23 26:2 43:10
57:8 instruct 10:7 16:12,20 17:24 20:25,25 21:3 kicked 7:5
52:15 27:24,25 28:2 23:20 24:1,19 34:20
intent 11:5 35:15,17,22 29:17 30:14,23 13:23 14:5
34:10 interaction 37:7 38:2,3,11 32:12,16,17 17:14,15,20
27:11 38:16,24 39:2 33:4,10,24 18:17 24:11,20
interplay 27:9 47:5,16,22 38:22 39:7,14 57:12
interpret 44:10 50:1,7,8,14,16 40:8,14,21 L
intersects 46:17 53:24 54:25 43:14,16,22,23 label 26:19 54:8
5:7 interstitial 56:9,22 57:10 45:16,25 46:21 language 34:19
22:13 33:19 58:10,11,20 47:2,9,16,20 45:5,7 46:14
51:22 isolation 58:25 58:15 53:2,7,15 largely 51:25
52:21 Justice 3:3,9,25 59:8,14 48:4,7 50:3
job 48:11 9:5,6,7,20 10:1 16:23 17:5 15:25 19:4
11:5,16 56:18 10:17 11:1,3,9 41:5 42:3 22:11,16 24:21
19:21 judgment 52:22 11:14,17,20,25 43:14,16 47:20 25:15 26:8
52:24 57:9 12:2,10,22 48:9 55:1,23 27:8 29:20,21
3:11,13,15 4:3 16:23 17:5,7 34:13 39:21,23,25,25
16:19 meaningful natural 23:22 O 2:1 3:1
43:3,3 little 4:13 16:24 26:23 50:25 36:22 42:12 object 13:2
29:25 meaningless nearly 39:5 objective 9:13
46:3,23 LLC 1:6 51:25 52:8 48:16 obtain 58:8
logic 32:1 means 17:14 necessarily 7:25 Obviously 41:14
57:3 longer 44:4 18:12 47:23 10:21 odd 16:23 25:17
47:10 56:15,19 need 47:15 29:18 44:25
22:20 33:14 37:11 41:25 51:23 needed 28:3 54:21 55:2,3,4
24:3 40:6 44:18 54:23 55:11 Nelson 1:15 2:3 55:6,10,10
33:17 48:14,16,18 mechanism 48:8 2:9 3:6,7,9,25 56:25
42:15 49:4 57:8 50:23,24 4:4,18,24 5:11 odder 56:14
52:4 looked 24:11 mentioned 5:14,18,21 oddest 54:12
13:1 14:8 looking 24:6 mere 4:10 56:9 7:21 8:5 9:3,6 oh 5:18 10:1
32:11 mind 7:2 34:13 13:16 14:11 48:11
major 9:15 Mining 43:12 16:5,23 17:2 once 25:3 28:21
26:4 making 13:10 minutes 55:19 19:5,13,17 ones 12:8,23
matter 1:11 modified 30:8 22:22,24 23:4 opposed 19:17
49:3 52:21,23 57:10 30:11 42:17 24:24 25:5 option 32:7
32:4 matters 7:18 modify 23:22 55:18,20,22 oral 1:11 2:2,5
58:6 16:16 41:12 58:25 57:7 59:10 3:7 26:14
44:3,4,22 5:21 8:6,16 9:8 moment 13:12 25:5,9 35:20 ousted 51:7
11:21 14:7,9 momentous 51:14 53:5 outside 58:13
31:18,20 18:20,20 22:18 Monday 1:9 New 15:4,15,16 34:4 35:5
37:2 23:7 28:21 money 14:23 nine 55:3 37:22
44:24 31:1 32:20 morass 14:22 non-existence overwhelmed
52:16 33:25 34:25 morning 3:4 43:2 18:4
42:14 39:24 40:21 move 14:24 notion 13:14 P
52:4,4 42:23 44:2,24 November 1:9 P 3:1
50:22 55:3,14 N 2:1,1 3:1 25:7 27:23 58:2
pestered 8:21 possible 9:3 18:7 50:3 52:13 pursued 6:16
Petitioner 1:4 potential 34:14 pro 13:25 put 6:4 19:8
34:16 55:21 18:16 problem 9:16 16:3
31:19 52:2 practically 36:15 41:3
57:19 46:16 practice 11:22 problems 11:3 Quarterly 14:14
10:24 precludes 47:7 15:12,13 44:14 6:16 8:11,18
ping-pong 54:11 presume 34:11 proposition 6:20 28:7,11,18,22
14:20 plaintiffs 10:20 38:15 41:11 23:10 46:23 47:22
13:8,21 14:18 50:1,17,21 protections 48:3 49:12
57:13 45:11 52:15 55:23 32:11,19 53:3,24 54:24
players 10:22 pretty 12:24 provide 9:13 55:2,4 57:3,9
26:17 33:11 pre-existing 19:23 29:3,5 55:8
32:25 33:12 27:19 48:23 R 3:1
55:13 56:11,12 private 3:19 17:1 28:21 Railway 57:23
20:13 57:12,15 58:16 4:22 6:3,7 16:9 33:3 42:5,5 raising 13:10
pointed 5:4 23:11 24:2 44:11 47:19 Rancho 48:15
23:14 points 54:22 26:20,22 27:9 48:2 49:6 50:20,25
42:19 policy 5:7 27:12 30:18 51:12 53:5 Ranchos 27:13
58:24 position 25:3,6 31:8,21 32:14 54:20 57:16 reaction 36:1
25:10,13 29:6 32:18,25 33:2 provisions 24:12 read 17:20
23:12 39:10 41:22 37:13,15,17,19 public 32:9 40:1 reading 18:7
44:8 46:8 52:12 37:24 38:6,7 40:6,10 53:20 23:7,22
positions 52:19 45:21 46:6,17 14:13 really 4:20 7:21
10:19 9:12,12,16,25 23:11,12 24:2 44:22 47:4,7 22:12 30:8
20:21 10:8 11:8 12:4 24:15 25:13 50:11 33:20 36:18,21
43:1 12:7 14:20 26:7,22,24 rules 4:5 15:25 45:20
56:19 15:6 45:13 27:10 29:2 19:4,9 22:5,20 section 3:12
59:4 removed 9:1,4 30:2,8,18 31:8 23:15,25 30:10 23:7 24:5,18
12:2 removes 13:24 32:18,21,24,25 42:15 44:14,16 41:12 47:25
28:15 removing 11:23 33:2,2,5 35:2 45:8 48:23 48:2 50:19,22
33:15 rendered 51:25 36:19 37:4,12 52:5 54:2 59:5 59:9
54:7 repeat 10:22 37:13,15,17,19 see 7:11 24:4
35:17 repeatedly 39:17 40:2,3,5 S 2:1 3:1 seeks 12:20
13:20 40:6,10,10,12 salesmen 8:22 seemingly 9:13
Report 14:14 42:4,16,20 San 14:15 57:23 54:13
55:20 34:10 45:24 46:6,17 saying 7:7 8:11 9:23 10:2
28:9 53:24,25 54:17 37:1,21 42:9 35:21
4:15 36:9 58:8,21 59:9 49:6,13 51:18 33:15 38:10,13
respect 10:19 rights 3:15 7:16 58:19 44:9,10 45:5
respects 25:14 23:10 24:12 17:10 19:1,5 separate 31:4
32:4 1:18 2:7 26:15 53:20 57:18 24:16 26:5 sets 3:17
Respondent's 58:3,21 35:23 37:7,21 Seventh 12:5
16:7 39:14 Roberts 3:3 4:21 51:17 56:5 side 13:10,18
58:8 reverse 34:20 5:8,12,15,20 Scalia 4:16,19 14:18 34:17
58:10 57:21 19:12,15,20 31:24 39:18,24 signposts 48:18
7:9,12,17,17 26:11 45:14,16 59:8 31:22 33:10
9:1 10:17,25 55:16,18 56:21 52:21 sister 28:19
10:20 11:22 14:21 41:2 42:22 stuff 52:5 18:11,15
12:11 15:1,3,4,11,19 45:6 58:1 subject 52:21,23 sure 4:7 11:1
13:22 15:20,22 16:1 State's 17:9 57:10,22 13:7
14:5 16:19,25 17:10 State-court-fo... submitted 59:16
17:16,18 18:3 48:21 59:18 T
18:10,11,15,22 State-law 48:20 subordinate T 2:1,1
17:8,9 18:25 19:4,6,9 State-law-foc... 42:16 Tafflin 4:25 5:5
44:13 19:17,22,24,24 52:7 subscriber 24:15 38:17
20:3,7,10,11 statue 20:24 23:10 take 6:25 39:10
57:1 25:4,6,9,22 24:4,9,16 25:8 3:19 6:15 21:1 43:24,25 51:12
32:12,16 30:16,16 31:5 29:20 30:13 sudden 32:3 targets 34:6
52:18 31:14 33:18 31:18 34:18,19 suddenly 9:15 TCPA 3:20
34:1,2,5,6,13 41:16 44:22,24 sue 10:8 20:17 14:15 26:6,21
48:7,9 39:21,25 40:16 56:6,11,14 suggested 56:1 34:1
49:18,21 40:18 41:1 58:10,17 suggesting telephone 3:17
53:4 42:6,7,10,14 statutes 5:23 34:19 41:6 11:7 23:13
43:2,3,4,9,20 26:5 27:9 suggests 34:23 tell 9:11 24:25
34:22 44:12,12,17,20 statutory 18:21 suing 31:11 telling 10:24
45:2,9,13,23 24:12 33:13 suit 12:3 13:4 51:6
50:21 52:5,6,10 53:6 53:9 54:20 suitable 16:21 42:5
4:14 33:14 10:19 supplemental 17:17
41:7 48:3,3 57:2 37:18 42:1 49:1 win 47:8
25:7 told 57:13 United 1:1,12 W withdrew 8:17
tortfeasor 34:4 57:25 waived 54:2,3 wonderful 35:23
5:12,22 51:21 28:10 29:9 10:12,13,13 11:15,17 38:7
7:21 traditional 29:7 unmistakably 17:5 32:20 words 25:8 26:7
12:3 transforming 4:6 27:16 35:7 45:11 44:14 52:13
54:10 41:23 48:20 55:22 55:14 56:24
15:9 transitory 5:3 Unquestionably wanted 34:24 work 10:19
16:15 58:9 33:4 48:12 worry 11:11
treated 7:15 unusual 33:1,5 wanting 49:2 worrying 12:23
20:2 trebled 12:17,17 34:18 49:5 wants 11:8 34:17
22:22 tremendous 51:24 38:24 39:1,4 worth 16:18,19
24:6 13:20 unwilling 4:10 48:22 wouldn't 9:7
28:15 tried 12:24 urge 55:15 Washington 1:8 14:3,4 23:18
trouble 45:17 use 19:10 38:6 1:15,17 25:18 33:9
32:22 true 36:14 58:23 usual 41:11 42:7 wasn't 39:11 35:4 43:22
35:11,12 truly 13:22 usually 11:7 53:1 54:12
37:11 16:16 29:6 49:8 way 3:22 10:5 write 41:15
38:4,9 trumps 29:14 U.S 46:19 10:22 25:10,15 written 25:7
try 14:19 U.S.C 3:12 27:10,23 28:13 wrongful 31:10
41:5,22 trying 12:25 26:22 28:24 30:14,17
35:5 52:24 35:11 37:18 X
45:9 56:24 V 40:2 41:13,25 x 1:2,7 8:9
48:14,16 two 12:15 16:6 v 1:5 3:4 17:4 42:12 44:24
49:15,23 20:5 21:16 21:20 27:13 51:25 52:4 Y
27:9 36:5 33:3 55:10 Y 5:25
53:10,14 45:18 vague 48:10 ways 10:9 26:24 year 38:17 44:8
54:22 type 14:5 vast 33:16 49:1 30:3 53:21 years 6:2 12:7
types 16:22 venerable 29:16 55:12 44:7
57:8 typical 30:17 48:1 weaker 28:20 yields 24:10
typically 17:8 venue 48:24 weird 40:21,23 York 15:4
46:11 37:11 39:10 view 25:18 we're 10:8 31:8 $5,000 12:18
53:3 31:19 34:13 39:6,8 $500 8:9,21 9:23
violated 8:8 23:5 49:11,13 53:8 53:9
20:15
35:2,20 40:22 57:1,2 8:9,10,22 we've 6:2 27:22 1
understanding 24:17 30:17,20 47:21 51:11
44:8
44:3
30:2 understood 19:2 virtually 16:11 58:18 59:4
58:2
24:8
1:5 3:4
1:13 3:2 24:6
12:16 50 45:8
26:19 500 12:17
54:6 55 2:10
26:19 6
53:23 6 12:6
54:2
59:17
3:12 26:22
28:18,22
41:12
47:5,13
48:3
52:17
56:3,8
56:17,20
57:22
27:11,15
28:15
48:2,5,7
50:6
44:2
14:14
1:9
8:8
2:7
1:9 3:12
2:4 21:8 24:6
45:5,22
44:7 55:19
44:23
6:2
46:19
46:20
4:23 23:11
