IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
WAL-MART STORES, INC., :
Petitioner : No. 10-277
v. :
BETTY DUKES, ET AL., :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 29, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:19 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR., ESQ., Los Angeles,
California; on behalf of Petitioner.
JOSEPH M. SELLERS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JOSEPH M. SELLERS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:19 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-277, Wal-Mart Stores v.
Dukes.
Mr. Boutrous.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BOUTROUS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The mandatory nationwide class in this case
was improperly certified for two fundamental reasons.
First, plaintiffs failed to satisfy Rule 23(a)'s
cohesion requirements as reflected in the commonality,
typicality, and adequacy requirements of the rule.
Second, plaintiffs' highly individualized claims for
monetary relief failed to satisfy Rule 23(b)(2)'s
requirements for certification of a mandatory
non-opt-out class.
Regarding Rule 23(a), because the
plaintiffs' claims in this case hinge on the delegation
of discretion to individual managers throughout the
country, they cannot meet the cohesion requirements that
are reflected in -- in Rule 23(a). The delegation of
discretion in some ways is the opposite of cohesive
claims that are common to everyone in the class. The
common policies that the plaintiffs point to are either
neutral and not argued to be discriminatory or they are
affirmatively nondiscriminatory. The company has a very
strong policy against discrimination and in favor of
diversity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose if
corporate headquarters had learned that the subjective
decisionmaking or the delegation of decisionmaking to
the field was resulting in several discriminatory
practices or a pattern of discrimination -- in other
words, the decentralized process was leading to
discrimination -- then I suppose the company -- that
that could be attributed to the policy adopted by -- at
headquarters?
MR. BOUTROUS: No, Your Honor. I think that
in this situation, if there was a pattern, for example,
at a particular store where the decisionmaking unit -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I'm talking
about -- so, they've got thousands of stores, and, you
know, every week they get a report from another store
saying that, you know, there's an allegation of gender
discrimination. At some point, can't they conclude that
it is their policy of decentralizing decisionmaking that
is causing or permitting that discrimination to take
place?
MR. BOUTROUS: That -- I think that would be
an inquiry, Your Honor. I don't think it would rise to
a pattern or practice or a common policy that affects
everyone in the same way. Certainly, companies do look
at the -- the situation throughout the company and seek
to root out discrimination, but it would take more than
some reports, especially in -- in a company that has so
many stores and so many units.
And here, the plaintiffs' claims simply
aren't typical. If the three named plaintiffs stand
before the court, they are supposed to represent 500,000
or a million or more people and stand in judgment -
that's the words the Court used in Hansberry v. Lee -
to represent all those other people. And the claim is
that the individual decisionmakers in those other cases
exercised their discretion in a way that was biased, and
there's no proof of that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The Chief Justice's
question reminds me somewhat of our rule in Monell under
1983: A city is not liable for a -- a constitutional
violation unless it has a policy. Would you think that
we could use that as an analogue to determine whether or
not there is a common question here?
MR. BOUTROUS: Yes, Your Honor. I think the
analogue is that if a company had a policy, a general
policy, of discrimination as opposed to here, where it's
a general policy against discrimination, and it was -
in the words of the Court in Feeney, saw patterns
throughout the company and because of sex, because of
gender, continued to allow the patterns to exist, that
would raise a different question.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose, following the
Monell analogue, there's -- it's a -- there's a showing
of deliberate indifference to the violation. Would that
be a policy?
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, I think
deliberate indifference raises a different question.
Under a disparate treatment claim, again, in Feeney, the
test would be, was the company allowing the
discrimination to occur because of gender, because it
wanted there to be discrimination? There's no evidence
of that here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there any
responsibility if you -- the numbers are what has been
left out so far. The company gets reports month after
month showing that women are disproportionately passed
over for promotion, and there is a pay gap between men
and women doing the same job. It happens not once, but
twice. Isn't there some responsibility on the company
to say, is gender discrimination at work, and if it is,
isn't there an obligation to stop it?
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, yes, there is an
obligation to ensure -- for a company to do its best to
ensure there are not wage gaps and discrimination. But
here, for example, if one looks at the aggregated
statistics that the plaintiffs have pointed to, it
points to a completely different issue. It does not
show that there were gender gaps at the stores among
comparable people. That's really the fundamental flaw
in their case.
Their argument is that individual
decisionmakers throughout the country were making
stereotyped decisions and that that had a common effect,
but they just added everything together. They haven't
shown a pattern across the map. They've added all the
data together and pointed to disparities, some of which
mirror some of the -- the statistics that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I thought their
expert didn't aggregate them together. He did it
regionally, not store by store, as your expert did,
number one; and, number two, that he performed, as
accepted by the district court, and affirmed by the
circuit court, any number of controlled variable
comparisons, including job history, job ratings, and
other things, and found that the disparity could not be
explained on any of the normal variables that one would
expect and that the disparity was significantly much
higher than the 10 competitors of Wal-Mart and what they
were paying their labor force.
So, what is speculative about that, number
one? And, two, why is that kind of statistical analysis
inadequate to show that a policy of some sort exists?
MR. BOUTROUS: Justice Sotomayor, first,
plaintiffs' expert did a national regression and then
simply estimated the regional results. He did not do a
regional regression. But even if he had, these
statistics go more to the merits. We think we have
strong arguments on the merits responding to those
statistical arguments -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that begs the
legal question, which is -- you're right. Ultimately,
you may win and prove to a factfinder that this analysis
is fatally flawed, but what the district court concluded
was that on the basis of your expert, whom he discounted
because your expert was -- was basing analysis on -- on
premises that the court found not acceptable, that there
was enough here after a rigorous analysis.
What's the standard that the court should
use in upsetting that factual conclusion?
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, the district
judge did not discount Wal-Mart's expert. The district
court found that it wasn't the stage at which to make a
determination between the two. The standard that we
think would govern would be the standard that the Second
Circuit adopted in the IPO case, which says there needs
to be a choice.
When you're talking about discretionary
decision around the country by different decisionmakers,
there has to be some demonstration that there's a common
effect throughout the system. Our expert's report and
testimony showed that at 90 percent of the stores, there
was no pay disparity. And that's the kind of -- and
even putting that aside, the plaintiffs needed to come
forward with something that showed that there was this
miraculous recurrence at every decision across every
store of stereotyping, and the evidence simply doesn't
show that.
The -- the other problem on the -- on the
cohesion analysis is that -- again, the typicality
inquiry. Each of the plaintiffs have very different
stories. One of them was promoted into a managerial
position. One was terminated for disciplinary
violations. One was promoted and then had a
disciplinary problem and then was demoted. In each of
these cases, if this were an individual case, they would
have to show that they were treated differently than
people who were situated just like them, with the same
supervisor, the same department, the same situation.
JUSTICE ALITO: What do you think is the
difference between the standard that the district court
was required to apply at the certification stage on the
question whether there was a company-wide policy and the
-- the standard that would be applied on the merits?
MR. BOUTROUS: At the certification stage,
Justice Alito, the plaintiffs did not have to prove that
there was an actual policy of discrimination and that
that was the company's policy, but they at least needed
to point to a policy that was common and that linked all
of these disparate individuals and disparate locations
and different people together. And -- and one -- their
argument is that the common policy is giving tens of
thousands of individuals discretion to do whatever they
want. That is not commonality. It's the opposite.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't think that's quite
fair, Mr. Boutrous. I think their argument was that the
common policy was one of complete subjectivity, was one
of using factors that allowed gender discrimination to
come into all employment decisions. And in Watson, we
suggested that that was a policy, a policy of using
subjective factors only, when making employment
decisions. That's exactly the policy that was alleged
here.
MR. BOUTROUS: Justice Kagan, they do not
argue that it was an entirely subjective process. As
the Court suggested in Falcon, entirely subjective
would -- would be a different issue. They argue that it
was excessive subjectivity and that there were general
overarching company standards that exerted control.
On page -- I think it's on page 13 of their
brief, they say the discretion was unguided. Three
pages later they say it was guided by these
nondiscriminatory policies. So, it's really an
incoherent theory that does not have -- pose the kind of
situation you're suggesting.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I -- I guess I'm just a
little -- a little bit confused as to why excessive
subjectivity is not a policy that can be alleged in a
Title VII pattern and practice suit or in a Title VII
disparate impact suit.
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, in Watson, the
Court did suggest -- did state and -- and hold that
subjective decisionmaking could be challenged in a
disparate impact case, but Justice O'Connor's opinion
went on to say there needs to be the identification of a
specific practice within that policy.
As the Court said in Falcon, Title VII does
not govern policies; it governs practices. And
subjectivity is not a practice if it were a policy. And
there was a -- like most companies, Wal-Mart has a
combination of objective and subjective standards.
Within that, the plaintiffs -- if they had pointed to
some particular criteria, people with a great
personality, they're going to -- they're -- they're the
ones we're going -- we're going to push up, and they -
they were trying to tie that to a disparate impact or
disparate treatment, that would be -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Boutrous, there was a
case, it was in the '70s, and it was a class action
against AT&T for, I think, promotion into middle
management. What was at issue there was a part -- a
test, part objective, but then in the end, the final
step was a so-called total person test, and women
disproportionately flunked at that total person.
And the idea wasn't at all complicated. It
was that most people prefer themselves; and so, a
decisionmaker, all other things being equal, would
prefer someone that looked like him. And that was
found, that total -- the application of that total
person concept was found to be a violation of Title VII.
This sounds quite similar. I mean, it's not
just -- it's not subjective. You have an expert -- I
know you have some questions about that expert -- but
the expert saying that gender bias can creep into a
system like that simply because of the natural
phenomenon that people tend to feel comfortable with
people like themselves.
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, this -- this is
not like the total person test, but I think that is a
very good example of something that could be a -- a
practice inside the -- the overarching policies, and if
you had a case where a particular decisionmaking unit
applied the total practice test, and you had disparate
results in that particular unit, that group of people
could -- could -- would have a much stronger case for a
class action.
But as Your Honor points out, the -- the
sociologist here, who is the glue that's supposed to
hold this class together, said he couldn't tell if
stereotyping was occurring one-half of 1 percent or 95
percent or at all.
And this is a class action. The question
here is whether that we can assume that every
decisionmaker acted in the same manner in a way that had
in this Court's words the same injury, caused -- the
plaintiffs had the same interest and the same injury,
that's the way the Court put it in Amchem, by their own
expert accepting all of their proof, the answer is no.
That assumption is not supported by the record. That's
why there's not the kind of cohesion that's necessary to
protect the rights of the absent class members and the
defendant.
The -- the -- the other -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Boutrous, I think that
that suggests that the plaintiffs would have to
demonstrate discrimination in every individual case, and
that's never been the law. All that the plaintiffs have
to demonstrate and, especially at this stage in the
proceedings, is that there is a practice, a policy of
subjectivity that on the whole results in discrimination
against women, not that each one of these women in the
class were themselves discriminated against.
MR. BOUTROUS: That's correct, Your Honor.
At the phase one, we're not arguing that a plaintiff
would have to come forward and show that every class
member was discriminated at that point. Under the
Teamsters' analysis, there must be proof of a standard
operating procedure of discrimination.
Here, it's undisputed that Wal-Mart's
policy -- and it wasn't just a written policy; it was
implemented and enforced rigorously -- that was
antidiscrimination. But, Your Honor, you're correct,
that each person doesn't have to come forward in phase
one.
The big -- the other big problem here is
that the district judge said in phase two, under
Teamsters, Wal-Mart would not be entitled to put on its
individual defenses. Women who thought they had a claim
would not be able to come forward if a -- in this
process, the paper records suggested they didn't have a
claim, and come into court and have their day in court
and argue that they should be compensated.
The plaintiffs are trying to cut off half of
the Teamsters' framework, which is fundamental both to
due process and to Title VII because Title VII's section
706(g) states very clearly that only victims of
discrimination may recover.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- what happens
to the damages claim of an individual woman who is part
of this class if that class prevails?
MR. BOUTROUS: If the class prevails, then
the -- the claim would be resolved in this manner
under -- it's very unclear what the District Court had
in mind.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would -- would she
be eligible for only back pay or compensatory damages as
well?
MR. BOUTROUS: Yes, Your Honor, she would
only be eligible for back pay. The plaintiffs retained
their compensatory-
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Go
ahead.
MR. BOUTROUS: -- their compensatory damage
claims for themselves but waived those for the class
members in order to get a class certified, which I think
is a fundamental, crucial violation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right. But
would -- would the -- would the women with a claim for
compensatory damages be able to sue that after the class
prevails in this case?
MR. BOUTROUS: Our view is that she would
not be because that would have been part of the core
nucleus of facts in the case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even -- even though
she could have not received notice and not had an
opportunity to opt out?
MR. BOUTROUS: That's the -- that's the
problem -- that goes to the problem with this (b)(2)
certification, that this case, if it -- if it were going
to be certified at all, needed to be looked at under
Rule 23(b)(3). Rule 23(b)(3) was -- was created for
precisely this sort of circumstance, the growing edge of
the law where individualized monetary claims are at
stake. The -- the language of Rule 23(b)(2) speaks of
injunctive and declaratory relief.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, would -
JUSTICE KAGAN: I thought your position was
that this could not be certified under Rule 23(b)(3),
either; is that correct?
MR. BOUTROUS: Our view is the plaintiffs
will -- will not be able to satisfy those -- those
provisions, but that's why they brought it under Rule
23(b)(2), to circumvent the procedural protections of
superiority, predominance, and the like.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would that bar the
(b)(2) class? Meaning if their claim is, as they state
it, that they're seeking injunctive and declaratory
relief against a discriminatory impact or -- case or a
pattern and practice case, wouldn't that have value and
wouldn't that value be, standing alone without the
damages component, be that the plaintiffs who come in
later have a presumption that discrimination affected
them and the burden shifts to Wal-Mart to prove that
there was a nondiscriminatory reason?
MR. BOUTROUS: There certainly could be a
benefit from an injunction if -- if the plaintiffs met
all the standards. The problem here is that the -- the
individualized damage claims, the back pay claims,
engulfed and overwhelm the injunctive relief -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Even if they did, why
couldn't you separate out the (b)(2) issue from the
(b)(3) question of whether monetary damages have enough
common facts and law to warrant a certification under
(b)(3)?
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, some courts have
done that, looked at the injunctive relief claims under
-- under the (b)(2) standard and the monetary reliefs
under a (b)(3) standard. That can raise other
complications, especially here the plaintiffs are
seeking punitive damages as well, but that's at least a
possibility. It would certainly be better than this,
shoe-horning these monetary relief claims that are so
individualized.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, would you address
the -- address them separately for me, and tell me why a
(b)(2) class couldn't exist only on injunctive relief?
And if it can, if you're conceding it can, then is your
attack merely that the monetary component of this, the
back pay -- which, you know, I know the dispute on
whether that's equitable relief or compensatory relief
or not -- why that just can't be separated out and put
into the (b)(3) claim?
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, our view is that
the injunctive relief claim still has significant
problems concerning cohesion, adequacy, typicality,
commonality. On the adequacy point, this case includes
at least 544 store managers who are alleged to be
discriminators and victims. If that's not a conflict
under Amchem and the adequacy test in Hansberry v. Lee,
I don't know what is. The -- the women who are
compelled to be in the class -- they can't opt out,
they're current employees, they're former employees,
they cut across every position in the country, and
there's no demonstration that they're being affected in
a common way. So, I think there would still be those
commonality, typicality, cohesion problems because of
the nature of the plaintiffs' case here, the notion of
the common policy being giving -- giving discretion and
-- and independent judgment.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that -- correct
me if I'm wrong, but I thought that this district judge
said that -- that the absent class members would get
notice and have an opportunity to -- to opt out. So, a
-- a plaintiff, a member of the class who wants to go
for compensation instead of just back pay could opt out.
MR. BOUTROUS: The district court, Justice
Ginsburg, limited that ruling to the punitive damage
claim, and the Ninth Circuit made clear it was viewing
it that way. It said under its ruling, which sent
punitive damages back, that would simplify things
because then there wouldn't have to be notice and an
opportunity to opt out under back pay. And back pay is
monetary relief for individuals. To bind people based
on a balancing test under (b)(2) to a judgment to which
they were not a party -- in Taylor v. Sturgell, this
Court talked about the fundamental rule that an
individual is not bound by a judgment to which they're
not a party and said we need crisp rules with sharp
corners in this area where such a fundamental right is
at stake. And that's why we think it needs to be Rule
23(b)(3) when individual monetary relief is at stake.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That begs my question.
Are you talking about any monetary relief? You're -
you're claiming, I'm assuming, that monetary relief
includes equitable relief.
MR. BOUTROUS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The Fifth Circuit has
described a test where it doesn't use the predominant
question; it uses the incidental test. What's wrong
with that test?
MR. BOUTROUS: That test is much better than
the test that was applied below. The plaintiffs have
walked away from the two tests that were applied in the
lower court. They have never contended they could meet
the incidental damages test. And under the Fifth
Circuit's case, the Allison case, only automatic back
pay that goes to the group as a whole would qualify for
that. Here, this is individualized relief.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- that's where I'm
going to. Would you accept that incidental test as
appropriate to the question of when monetary damages
predominate or don't?
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, the text of Rule
23(b)(2) is very clear. It talks about injunctive and
declaratory relief. The only ambiguity that's created
is from the advisory committee note, and as this Court
said three weeks ago in the Milner case, we don't look
to legislative history to try to create ambiguities.
The -- the other parts of the advisory committee notes
make very clear that the drafters were concerned about
the historical antecedents where it was an
injunctive-only case to -- of -- to desegregate and the
like. I think the drafters of Rule 23(b)(2) would have
been shocked if they had learned that this case that
involves millions of claims for individualized monetary
relief were -- were being sought to be included in a
(b)(2) class.
That said, Your Honor, the incidental damage
test is -- is I think far superior because it's at least
clearer and would be closer to a sharp, bright-line
rule, which is required in this context.
I'd like to go back briefly to the point I
made earlier about individual relief and taking away the
rights of both Wal-Mart and the absent class members.
The procedures that would be used here -- the Ninth
Circuit proposed a statistical sampling method. The
plaintiffs do not defend that. They do not mention
the Hilao case, which was the cornerstone of the -- the
Ninth Circuit's ruling, which would allow sort of a
prediction about who might have been hurt, how many
people might have been hurt, and then a divvying up of
-- of moneys based on that.
The district court precluded the fundamental
Teamsters hearings, which would allow, once a
presumption, if one was to arise, of discrimination
occurred in a pattern of practice -- would allow the
defendant to then show that it didn't discriminate on -
on an individual basis, and it would allow the
individuals to come in and have their day in court.
That violates Title VII. It violates the Rules Enabling
Act, and -- and we think it really shows some of the
core flaws in this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the class
does -- does not prevail; it loses? Does that bar an
individual woman at a particular Wal-Mart from bringing
these same claims?
MR. BOUTROUS: Yes, Your Honor. There's a
presumption in -- in the world of class actions -
there's two that I think the plaintiffs are -- are
relying on. One is that class actions are always good,
and the bigger the class action, the better, and that
the class will win. None of those presumptions can be
counted on. If the plaintiffs lose, and they -- and
here their compensatory damages claims, I think, would
be gone because the named plaintiffs are asserting them.
If they tried to bring a case as pattern or practice or
pay or promotion, there would be significant questions
of res judicata and collateral estoppel. And it's not
fair to anyone to put this all into one big class.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you're not suggesting
that they would be precluded on individual
discrimination claims, are you?
MR. BOUTROUS: No, Your Honor, if they had
individual claims that were separate from the nucleus of
operative facts here, that might pose a different
question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But what if it were
the same theory, that the reason this person was able to
discriminate was because he had total subjective
discretion in his hiring?
MR. BOUTROUS: Then I -- then there would be
a real problem of collateral estoppel or res judicata,
Your Honor.
Mr. Chief Justice, I'd like to reserve my
remaining time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. BOUTROUS: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Sellers.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH M. SELLERS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. SELLERS: Mr. Chief Justice, may it
please the Court:
This case follows from the -- the Teamsters
and Watson models of theories of discrimination, and as
a consequence, there is no requirement to have a formal
policy of discrimination here. It can be -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What would the
injunction look like in this case?
MR. SELLERS: The injunction would look like
a series of remedial measures that would direct Wal-Mart
to provide for detailed criteria by which to make pay
and promotion decisions that are job-related in a way
that hasn't been true up until now. It would provide
for it to hold managers accountable for the decisions
they make; it would ensure effective oversight of the -
of these pay and promotion decisions in a way that the
company had -- while the company did have, by the way,
information regularly submitted to it about pay
decisions, it took no action, and it did not effectively
monitor -- allowed these problems to fester.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right. Is it
your position that on this scale subjective
decisionmaking processes are necessarily illegal?
MR. SELLERS: No, not at all, Mr. Chief
Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, if this were -
how many stores are we talking about, a thousand stores?
MR. SELLERS: Several thousand stores.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Several thousand
stores. How many examples of abuse of the subjective
discrimination delegation need to be shown before you
can say that flows from the policy rather than from bad
actors? I assume with three -- however many thousands
of stores, you're going to have some bad apples.
MR. SELLERS: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, we
have some examples in the record. As Teamsters -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I know there are
examples. How many do you need to have?
MR. SELLERS: I -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Surely it won't be
-- if somebody sends one letter in saying the guy at
this plant -- is -- plant -- this store is
discriminating, that can't be enough to support your
theory.
MR. SELLERS: That's correct. We don't
submit that. There is no minimum number that this Court
has ever set. Teamsters, as an example in Teamsters,
the Court had before it about 40 examples, but
significantly they weren't required. In order to
establish a pattern and practice of liability -- and we
have more than that, of course -- but in order to
establish a pattern and practice of liability or at
least a prima facie case, Teamsters holds that what you
need to do is show that there were disparities
sufficiently substantial to create an inference of
discrimination with respect to a discrete practice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it -- is it true
that Wal-Mart's pay disparity across the company was
less than the national average?
MR. SELLERS: Mr. Chief Justice, the
position -- I don't know that that's a fair comparison.
The position that Wal-Mart has advanced makes no -- the
comparison it makes is with the general population, not
with people in retail.
Wal-Mart's obligation under Title VII is to
ensure that its managers do not make pay decisions
because of sex, and the comparison that's relevant is
between men and women at Wal-Mart, not the general
population that includes people in retail, but includes
railroad workers and all kinds of other people. That's
not the appropriate comparison.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's not clear to me:
What is the unlawful policy that Wal-Mart has adopted,
under your theory of the case?
MR. SELLERS: Justice Kennedy, our theory is
that Wal-Mart provided to its managers unchecked
discretion in the way that this Court's Watson decision
addressed that was used to pay women less than men who
were doing the same work in the same -- the same
facilities at the same time, even though -- though those
women had more seniority and higher performance, and
provided fewer opportunities for promotion than women
because of sex.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's -- it's hard for me
to see that the -- your complaint faces in two
directions. Number one, you said this is a culture
where Arkansas knows, the headquarters knows, everything
that's going on. Then in the next breath, you say,
well, now these supervisors have too much discretion.
It seems to me there's an inconsistency there, and I'm
just not sure what the unlawful policy is.
MR. SELLERS: Well, Justice Kennedy, there
is no inconsistency any more than it's inconsistent
within Wal-Mart's own personnel procedures. The company
provides to its managers this discretion, which, by the
way, is very discrete. It is not the broad kind of -
we're not attacking every facet of the pay and promotion
decisions. The District Court found specific features
of the pay and promotion process that are totally
discretionary. There's no guidance whatsoever about how
to make those decisions.
But with respect to the discretion, every
store, the District Court found, is provided -- managers
are provided with the same level of discretion. But the
company also has a very strong corporate culture that
ensures that managers, not just with respect to the
practices we're challenging, but in all respects, what
they call the Wal-Mart way, and the purpose of that is
to ensure that in these various stores that, contrary to
what Wal-Mart argues, that these are wholly independent
facilities, that the decisions of the managers will be
informed by the values the company provides to these
managers in training -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, is that disparate
treatment?
MR. SELLERS: It is disparate treatment. It
is a form of disparate treatment because they are making
these decisions because of sex, and they -- and they are
doing so with -- we have evidence that we think, through
the stereotyping evidence we have here, as well as the
statistical results -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- I'm getting
whipsawed here. On the one hand, you say the problem is
that they were utterly subjective, and on the other hand
you say there is a -- a strong corporate culture that
guides all of this. Well, which is it? It's either the
individual supervisors are left on their own, or else
there is a strong corporate culture that tells them what
to do.
MR. SELLERS: Well, Justice Scalia, there is
this broad discretion given the managers.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. SELLERS: But they do not make these
decisions in a vacuum. They make the decisions within a
company where they are heavily -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, there's no discretion;
is that what you're saying?
MR. SELLERS: No, I'm not. I'm suggesting
they are given this discretion, but they are informed by
the company about how to exercise that discretion. So,
it's effectively saying -
JUSTICE SCALIA: If somebody tells you how
to exercise discretion, you don't have discretion.
MR. SELLERS: Well, all right. That's
another -- it's certainly -- the bottom line is, they
didn't, and the results show it. There was consistent
disparities in every one of the regions, 41 regions.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you know about -
about the unchallenged fact that the central company had
a policy, an announced policy, against sex
discrimination, so that it wasn't totally subjective at
the managerial level? It was, you make these hiring
decisions, but you do not make them on the basis of sex.
Wasn't that the central policy of the company?
MR. SELLERS: That was a written policy.
That was not the policy that was effectively
communicated to the managers.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, how was -- how was
that established?
MR. SELLERS: Well, what we have, as I said
before, is evidence of -- for instance, at the -- at the
Sam Walton Institute, where every manager has to be
trained before they become a manager, they provide as a
question -- a response to a standard question: Why are
women so underrepresented, or so few women in
management? And the response given was, because men
seek advancement, are more aggressive in seeking
advancement.
Now, that's a typical, stereotypical
statement provided to every person going through the
management training program, that they then go off and
inform -- that informs their decisions when they make -
when they have this discretion to make promotions.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that causes them
intentionally to discriminate on the basis of sex?
MR. SELLERS: That's -- that is -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That causes -- how could
that possibly cause them to intentionally discriminate
on the basis of sex?
MR. SELLERS: Well, they -- they have -
they have an intent to take sex into account in making
their decisions; that is -- that is, they apply a
stereotype about that women are less aggressive when it
comes to assessing their suitability for promotions.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that's just an
assessment of why the percentage is different. They
differ not only at Wal-Mart, but at -- throughout the
industry. To say that that's the explanation is not to
tell your people: Don't promote women.
MR. SELLERS: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you have an aggressive
woman, promote her.
MR. SELLERS: I understand that, and there
were -- there have been women promoted. But Justice
Scalia, first of all, we think that that is -- the
questions you are raising are ones that Wal-Mart can
raise at trial. The question at this juncture is
whether there are -- there are questions common to the
class.
We've identified what has been recognized as
a -- a common policy, that there's no dispute this
policy applies throughout the company. And the fact
that we, at this juncture, are -- I mean, and we have
shown, as we think we have to in order to satisfy
commonality, that there are disparities adverse to
women. And we have the means to show, through the
testimony of Dr. Bielby and other evidence, that we can
provide this -- connect these two through -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Have you sufficiently
shown -- despite the fact of an explicit written central
policy of no discrimination against women, do you think
you've adequately shown that that policy is a fraud, and
that what's really going on is that there is a
central -- a central policy that promotes discrimination
against women? Do you really think -
MR. SELLERS: We -- we have testimony in the
record from the vice president of the company that that
policy was lip service at the company. We have
testimony from -- from the expert in this case -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't this something that
would be -- I mean, this -- we're not just talking about
getting your foot in the door. We're talking about
certifying the class, and you may well lose on every one
of these points, but -- but the 23(a) standards, they're
not supposed to be very difficult to overcome. It's
just a common question of fact -
MR. SELLERS: That is -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- that dominates at
that -
MR. SELLERS: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what seems to me is a
very serious problem in this case is: How do you work
out the back pay? You say -- we get through the 23(a)
threshold. We got class certified under 23(b)(2). And
the judge says, there's no way I could possibly try each
of these individuals. So, we're going to do it how?
How are they going to calculate the back pay?
MR. SELLERS: Well, the -- the approach that
the District Court endorsed, an approach we recommended,
and which has been endorsed by seven circuits over a
period of 40 years, is in circumstances here -- like
here, which are, admittedly, the exception to the rule,
where the company had no standards by which to make
promotion and pay decisions, they had kept no records of
who -- the reasons for people being promoted and the
reasons why they pay people certain amounts, that as a
consequence of that, the Albemarle decision and the
Teamsters decision make clear that the obligation of the
District Court upon finding of liability is to attempt
to reconstruct the decisions that would have been made
in the absence of discrimination.
And the District Court found here -- and we
submit it's not clearly erroneous -- that the more
reliable method for doing so is to use a formula relying
on Wal-Mart's robust database in which it captures
performance, seniority, and a host of other job-related
variables, factors that bear on pay and promotion
decisions, and permits a comparison, a very precise
comparison, in a way that having individual hearings
relying on hazy memories, post hoc rationalizations,
doesn't.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if you had a
situation where you had a company with a very clear
policy in favor of equal treatment of men and women?
You know, the answer to your -- the answer to your
question was women don't have as many positions because
managers discriminate against them in -- in hiring and
in promotion, yet you still have the same subjective
delegation system.
Could you have a class of women who were
harmed by this subjective policy, even though it was
clear that the policy of the corporation favored equal
employment opportunity?
MR. SELLERS: Well, I think if the -- if
there were -- as clear as your hypothetical suggest,
that the company had a policy of that sort, it would be
appropriate for it to seek summary judgment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, no, they
still -- well, then you're saying it is not enough that
it be a subjective decision. This company has a
thousand stores, and sure enough in a thousand stores
you're going to be able to find a goodly number who
aren't following the company's policy, who are
exercising their subjective judgment in a way that
violates the right to equal treatment.
Couldn't you bring a class of people
subjective to discrimination as a result of that
subjective policy?
MR. SELLERS: You could bring a class case
on behalf -- if I understand your hypothetical -- on
behalf of women -- I'm sorry -- who were subject to
discrimination as a consequence of that unchecked
discretion.
I -- I want to be clear that we shouldn't
lose sight of the fact that we have evidence here of
results from this that are, that are really
extraordinary.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is the -- is the common
question of law or fact whether, given the training
which central management knew -
MR. SELLERS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- given the facts about
what people say and how they behave, many of which
central management knew, and given the results which
central management knew or should have known, should
central management under the law have withdrawn some of
the subjective discretion in order to stop these
results?
MR. SELLERS: That -- that is a fair way to
put it.
JUSTICE BREYER: If that is a fair way to
put it, is that a question that every one of the women
in this class shares in common?
MR. SELLERS: I -- I believe so, Justice
Breyer, because they've all been the subject in every
one of these stores to this very broad discretion.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The district judge didn't
think so. Didn't the district judge say that in
awarding back pay some would get a windfall and others
would be uncompensated?
MR. SELLERS: Actually, Justice Ginsburg,
I -- I think the district judge did not find that. What
he found was that the formula, and I can assure you the
formula we intend -- would tend -- tend to use is a
regression analysis that would permit a comparison
between each woman and the amount she was paid and
similarly situated men, taking into account, as I said,
performance and seniority and the like, and you will
find there are women that were not underpaid and the
formula will show that they should get no back pay.
I think that the district court -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought -- I thought
his point was not simply that some women were not
underpaid, but women, if you had an individual case, the
employer might show this person could have been fired,
disciplined, and wasn't owed any back pay, not that she
compares favorably to a -- a male peer, but that she
wouldn't have gotten any pay at all.
MR. SELLERS: Well, Justice Ginsburg, the
kind of factors that are entered into this -- this
economic model, performance in particular, should
capture whether somebody should have been fired.
That -- that is a very important part of the model here
that permits people to -- and we found -- the evidence
shows that women were, in fact -- had higher performance
than men and were nonetheless still underpaid.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I just say something
here? Doesn't your class include both those women who
were underpaid and both -- and those women who weren't
underpaid?
MR. SELLERS: That's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't your class include
both?
MR. SELLERS: As every -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that commonality?
MR. SELLERS: As every class does, Justice
Scalia. Every class has some portion of its members who
are not harmed by the discrimination. As the Teamsters
case recognized, what is common about them is they were
all subject to the same highly discretionary
decisionmaking, even if some of them weren't harmed by
it. That still presents a question common to the class.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, correct me if I'm
wrong, I thought the Teamsters case was an action by the
government that wasn't a class action case.
MR. SELLERS: That -- that is correct, but
it -- it -- it is the paradigm we use for determining
what you need to establish a pattern or practice of
discrimination.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Pattern or practice,
that's correct.
Help me, if you can, with this. Let's -
let's suppose that experts' testimony, sociologists and
so forth, establish that in industry generally and in
retail industry generally, women still are discriminated
against by a mathematical factor of X. You have a
company that has a very specific policy against
discrimination, and you look at their -- the way their
employees are treatment -- are treated, and you find a
disparity by that same mathematical factor X, does that
give you a cause of action?
MR. SELLERS: If the -- I'm sorry -- if
the -- it, the disparity -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The -- the -- the
disparity with -- that women are subjected to are the
same in the company as they are -
MR. SELLERS: Outside the company.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- society wide, but the
company does have a policy against discrimination.
MR. SELLERS: Right. I -- I would say that
the company's responsibility under Title VII is to
ensure its managers do not make pay and promotion
decisions because of sex. If the comparison between the
pay women receive, for instance, who are similarly
situated to men within the company is such that they are
underpaid compared to similarly situated men in the
company, then -- then the company would have legal
responsibility under Title VII, regardless of what
happens in the rest of the industry, what happens in the
rest of the world.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would that be true even if
you could not show deliberate indifference?
MR. SELLERS: Well, I don't know that the -
the respect that the standard is deliberate
indifference. I think that under this Court's decision
in Heller -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Where there's no
deliberate indifference and a specific policy
prohibiting the discrimination, can you still proceed?
MR. SELLERS: I -- well, I would submit you
still can proceed. If -- if the policy -- announcing a
policy saying don't discriminate were to be effective
in -- in immunizing companies against liability in class
actions, imagine every company in the country would
publish that policy and have free license to go
discriminate as much as it wanted to.
JUSTICE ALITO: I understand your answer to
Justice Kennedy's question to be that this typical
company would be in violation of Title VII; is that
correct?
MR. SELLERS: That's correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: That's what the -- and
that's what the academic literature on which your theory
is based includes; isn't that right?
MR. SELLERS: With -- Justice Alito, I think
it's not just academic literature, I think it's the
precedents from this Court. I think that's the -
that's the premise behind Teamsters, that the -- you
look to in Hazelwood, which makes very clear that you
don't look to populations outside the company in making
comparisons.
JUSTICE ALITO: So, you have the company
that is absolutely typical of the entire American
workforce, and let's say every single -- there weren't
any variations. Every single company had exactly the
same profile. Then you would say every single company
is in violation of Title VII?
MR. SELLERS: It -- that could very well be
the case. If -- if the -- I think that Title VII holds
companies responsible for the actions they take with
respect to their employees. There certainly are
industries, and there were 30 years -- many more 30 or
40 years ago when Teamsters was decided, where the
entire industry might have had evidence of
discrimination. That would not -- there is not a
negligence standard under this statute that immunizes
companies because they follow the same standards as
others.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what -- what -
what's -- what's your answer assumes is if there is a
disparity between the advancement of women and the
advancement of men, it can only be attributed to sex
discrimination -
MR. SELLERS: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, otherwise, how could
you say that all -- all of the companies are -- are -
are presumptively engaging in sex discrimination?
MR. SELLERS: Well, Justice Scalia, I --
I -- I want to deal with the -- in this instance, we
have -- it's not just any old analysis that we're -
that we're using. We have statistical regression
analysis that isolates and takes into account the
factors such as performance and -- and seniority.
JUSTICE SCALIA: See, I wasn't talking about
this case. I was talking about your answer to Justice
Alito -
MR. SELLERS: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- which said that, you
know, it may well be that every industry in the United
States is guilty of sex discrimination -
MR. SELLERS: Well, I -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- unless there -- you
know, there -- there's equality of promotion for men and
women.
MR. SELLERS: No, I -- I don't -- I don't
take that position, Justice Scalia. What I was trying
to make clear is that the fact that there are other
companies in the same industry where the same problems
may arise, which, by the way, wasn't true here, where
Wal-Mart was behind the other large retailers, doesn't
mean that a company is any less liable for the
discrimination practiced in its own workplace.
I can't speak for the rest of society, I
don't have any reason to think the entire society is
engaging in employment discrimination.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Sellers, could I take
you back to the remedial question here -
MR. SELLER: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- and when you think it is
that individualized hearings are required? You've
described a kind of formula that you would use. When -
when -- when is the formula approach right and when is
the individual hearings approach right?
MR. SELLERS: Well, I think it's a -- it's a
call that, of course, we leave -- we should leave to the
district court in the first instance, but factors that
could weigh in the balance would include whether or not
you have available the kind of information that we do
here from database with which to be able to more
reliably construct the -- the kinds of decisions that
would have been made in the absence of discrimination.
Likewise, there may be companies where they
have kept better records or kept any records or have
more substantial standards that would permit the
reconstruction of those decisions through individual
hearings. I don't think this is something that -- I'm
not contending that under -- that you could always use a
formula-like approach in connection with these cases.
This is an extraordinary case with evidence that is -
that they have kept really no standards and no records.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought, didn't the
district judge say because of the numbers we couldn't -
couldn't possibly have the hearing in each case on
whether the particular woman was owed back pay? They
did say something about this.
MR. SELLERS: The district -- I'm sorry, the
district court did make the comment that the sheer
number of class members would make the administration of
individual hearings difficult, but the district court
went on, very importantly -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought he said
"impossible."
MR. SELLERS: Sorry?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought he said more
than difficult.
MR. SELLERS: Well, he may have said
impossible, but the important point is that he went -
the district court went ahead and made specific findings
about the extent to which the -- the particular record
here shows that the use of a formula would be more
reliable than individualized hearings.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm -- I'm a
little confused, all right?
MR. SELLERS: Okay.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because you're saying an
individualized hearing is impossible, but that's exactly
what you're saying you're going to do, only through
statistics.
MR. SELLERS: That's -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're going to say
through my statistical model, I will be able to identify
those women in the class who are deserving of pay
raises. What that doesn't answer is when in this
process is the defendant going to be given an
opportunity to defend against that finding?
MR. SELLERS: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because you're -- are
you suggesting that the district court would
appropriately bar a defendant where there's no proof of
intentionality with respect to not keeping records, that
it was intended to stop these women from collecting
money, et cetera? When are they going to get a chance?
MR. SELLERS: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And if they're going to
get a chance, isn't that an individualized hearing?
MR. SELLERS: Yes. Effectively Wal-Mart
will have ample opportunity through the arguments over
which variables which to use. There was a very robust
debate below already about which variables to use, that
will have a significant impact on whether women are
shown to be underpaid or underpromoted compared to men.
So, Wal-Mart will have that opportunity, and frankly -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, no. That sounds
like you're saying their only opportunity will be on the
model.
MR. SELLERS: I'm -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They will be precluded
from attempting to show any particular evidence that a
particular decision was not made?
MR. SELLERS: If Wal-Mart -- if Wal-Mart,
Justice Sotomayor, if a Wal-Mart comes forward below and
it hasn't done so, so far, and is able to persuade the
district court that it can, consistent with some kind
of -- in a way that's consistent with a reliable
determination of who should have been paid what and
promoted in the absence of discrimination -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're not answering me.
MR. SELLERS: I'm trying to.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're -- what you're
saying is we're going to preclude them from doing
anything but offering a mathematical model -
MR. SELLERS: I'm -- I'm -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- because otherwise
it's going to be too hard to have individual hearings.
MR. SELLERS: I -- I'm -- let me answer you
directly. I'm not saying that. Wal-Mart has an
opportunity to make the case that with whatever showing
it wishes to make it can reconstruct these decisions
more reliably, and in an entirely subjective
environment, and if it does, it can offer evidence in
certain circumstances; but it hasn't done so; and I
don't submit it's going to be able to do so here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This -- this takes
evidence, to establish that -- that it's more reliable
to have a hearing with evidence on the particular
promotion or dismissal of the individual, that that is
more reliable than using -- I don't care how admirable a
statistical guess you make; I mean is that really a
question?
MR. SELLERS: I think it is, Justice Scalia,
because the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: We must have a pretty bad
judicial system then.
MR. SELLERS: Well, I think it's not the
judicial system, it's the recordkeeping of the company,
and the standardlessness of its -- of the pay and
promotion processes that basically mean 10 years later,
these managers are going to be coming forward to
speculate about what they did 10 years earlier, with no
records to cross-examine them on. That is not the -
the model for a reliable adjudication.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel -
JUSTICE SCALIA: We should use that in jury
trials, too, for really old cases. We should just put a
statistical model before the jury and say, you know,
this stuff is too old; so, we'll -
MR. SELLERS: Well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- we'll do it on the basis
of -- is this really due process?
MR. SELLERS: I -- Justice Scalia, I submit
it is; and the circuits that have been considering this
for 40 years have so held. In the narrow set of
circumstances that we have here, where there are
standardless, recordless decisions at issue.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if it's standardless
and -- and recordless, then why is there commonality?
It seems to me that what you -- your answer that you
just gave really is a -- shows a flaw in your case on
commonality.
MR. SELLERS: No, Justice Kennedy, the -
the standardless and recordless aspect is with respect
to trying to reconstruct these decisions years later.
As I said before, we have a common policy here; it
presents a common question. We've shown evidence that
would probably create a prima facie case of pattern or
practice under Teamsters, and we think we've satisfied
the three components of commonality that we think need
to be addressed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: One thing you haven't
touched on is to -- to have, first of all the question
of whether (b)(2) is limited to injunction and
declaratory relief.
MR. SELLERS: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if -- if you follow
the advisory committee's note, then if dollars -- if
damages predominates -- if damages predominate, then you
can't use (b)(2). You have to make your case under
(b)(3); and the one factor here is that about half the
class is gone, so -- they're not interested in
injunctive relief, but everybody's interested in money.
So, why isn't the money -- why do you say that the -
that the injunction -- injunctive relief is the thing
and the damages are lesser, rather than the other way
around?
MR. SELLERS: Well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: In fact it's more than half
the class that's gone, isn't it?
MR. SELLERS: Well, I don't -- nobody knows
that, because they continue to have more employees
adding -- added at the company. So, I wouldn't
presume -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But nobody's leaving yet.
MR. SELLERS: Well, there are people
leaving, but the point -- but more importantly, the
advisory committee note with respect to Rule 23(b)(2)
makes clear that there is a -- that the -- whether or
not an action or inaction is taken with respect to the
class which is the predicate to (b)(2) certification, it
depends on -- it doesn't depend on the number of people
who are adversely affected by that action.
And so, as a consequence where the former
employees are -- that they -- if they would be included
in the class under (b)(2) because that -- the question
is not on a day-to-day basis who should have been in a
position to seek injunctive relief and who's employed
and who's not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. SELLERS: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Boutrous, you
have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BOUTROUS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Let me begin with this question of back pay
because Mr. Sellers has made clear under their vision
Wal-Mart would never have an opportunity to prove that
it didn't discriminate against a woman who was seeking
back pay; and the district court did not suggest that it
might be difficult, as Mr. Sellers suggested. The
district court, as Justice Ginsburg suggested, said that
he found it would be impossible; not just because of the
number of people, but because of the nature of the
claims, that discretionary decisions were being
implemented in a way that affected different people
differently.
The -- the problem here Mr. Sellers says is
that the records are not available. Then he says we're
going to have a -- a proceeding where the district judge
relies only on the records, that he says are inadequate,
to allow a reconstruction of the decision. That is not
a process known to our jurisprudence. It doesn't
comport with due process. It takes away Wal-Mart's
rights under Title VII; it injures the rights of the
individual women, who the record -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You don't -- you don't
seriously contend that if a plaintiff, if a policy were
found or practice of discrimination that a woman
couldn't come in and say they put X in, I had a longer
history at Wal-Mart, I had far superior job ratings, I
had no criticisms of my work, and I wasn't promoted.
Wouldn't that be enough for her to show that that policy
influenced her lack of selection?
MR. BOUTROUS: I agree with you, Justice
Sotomayor. Except -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And your personal
database has all that information. So, why is it
impossible to try these cases other than because of
their large numbers? That's a different issue.
MR. BOUTROUS: Yes, Your Honor, what you've
just outlined, we agree that a woman should be able to
come in and say that, and she may say well, the records
don't show what really happened. I -- I had more
experience; I was a much better employee than the guy
working next to me. Under the plaintiff's theory in
order to get a class here, they have thrown that out the
window; that woman would not be able to come and
testify. Wal-Mart wouldn't be able to say this person
was a terrible employee, this person was a great
employee. On the record, it's not impossible to
recreate these decisions. The record is filled with
declarations from managers who remember very well that
Ms. Dukes violated company policy, that Ms. Arana was
fired for infractions regarding how she kept her hours.
JUSTICE BREYER: If you just spend one
second, remember my question. We've got a common issue.
Why isn't that enough at least to support a (b)(2)
injunctive action?
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, the -- the
scenario you outline -- there's no dispute about the
policies that existed at the time, that there were -
JUSTICE BREYER: That sounds like the merits
you're getting to. His point, remember, is this is just
certification. So, my question is: Assuming they can
support it with evidence, why can't they have their
(b)(2) class, at least on an injunctive relief?
MR. BOUTROUS: Because, Your Honor, the -
the common policy is one that affects everyone
differently by definition. Therefore, these plaintiffs
are not typical, and they are not arguing that everyone
was affected the same way by the common policy. Many
women thrived. Maybe some men stereotyped or some women
stereotyped the other direction. Five hundred and
forty-four of the plaintiffs are female store managers.
So, it's impossible to make these sweeping
generalizations, which, of course, is what stereotyping
is supposed to prevent. And so, it's -- there's
absolutely no way there can be a fair process here.
On the policy question, the policy -- the
plaintiffs point to the general policies and the central
control, but the one policy they do not want to confront
is the policy against discrimination. It was not just a
written policy on paper.
In fact, the -- there's a declaration at
page 1576 of the Joint Appendix that lays out the very
aggressive efforts the company -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about the vice
president that said it was just window dressing or
something like that?
MR. BOUTROUS: I'm glad you asked about
that, Justice Scalia. Here's what he said. He
testified about the diversity goals of the company at
the time, the effort to get more women into management,
and he said in his view, until the company linked
diversity goals to compensation of managers, it would be
lip service.
He wasn't saying the whole program was lip
service. He was one of the advocates for diversity in
the company. He wanted to be more aggressive. He said
his -- his goals were 20 percent and other people's were
10. So -- so, it's completely misleading to suggest he
was -- he was denigrating the entire policy.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think he's just making
your -- their point, which is if they started paying
women the same as men, they might get more diversity.
MR. BOUTROUS: They do pay the same as men,
Your Honor. The record reflects that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that's the whole
issue that's in dispute.
MR. BOUTROUS: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:20 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
24:4 admirable 48:14 amount 37:17 54:16 33:24 34:3
44:16 admittedly 34:8 amounts 34:12 argument 1:12 37:10,21 38:2
47:14 48:9 adopted 4:14 9:7 ample 46:24 2:2,5,8 3:3,7 44:4 45:6 52:1
27:14 analogue 5:24 7:13 10:18,22 52:5
56:10 advancement analysis 8:8,19 arguments 8:15 48:19
47:18 adverse 32:21 14:23 37:16 Arkansas 28:3 balancing 20:10
22:10 advisory 21:17 Angeles 1:15 asked 55:11 46:16
51:7 announcing 41:2 asserting 23:16 41:15
affirmed 7:24 43:6 46:10 48:2 assume 13:24 basis 8:21 22:24
43:3 ago 21:18 42:9 15:3 assure 37:14 2:4,7,10 3:8
23:12 Alito 10:6,12 application 12:25 attributed 4:14 benefit 18:2
39:5,6,22 41:8,13,16,23 applied 10:10 42:18 best 7:5
54:4 43:7 13:14 21:3,4 AT&T 12:16 better 18:17 21:2
42:6 alleged 11:3,19 apply 10:8 31:23 available 44:15 53:15
22:20,22,24 21:12 27:12 a.m 1:13 3:2 56:9 Bielby 32:23
46:16 b 16:24 17:17 bind 20:9
argue 11:6,8 20:10 22:3 50:8 bound 20:13
5:2 6:1,13 27:15 33:10,23 51:25 56:7 clear 20:4 21:15 19:17 32:21
8:10 9:2 36:5 37:25 choice 9:8 21:21 27:13 38:21 49:18,21
11:5 38:25 39:5,6 circuit 7:25 9:7 34:14 35:4,13 50:4
12:14 42:5 43:6 45:1 20:4,23 22:12 35:16 36:10 communicated
14:10,19 45:5 48:4 49:20 circuits 34:6 41:20 43:18 30:23
16:4,9,17 50:2,14 56:8,9 49:13 51:8 52:2 companies 5:5
17:11 cases 5:16 10:2 Circuit's 21:7 clearer 22:6 12:6 41:4 42:6
19:4 44:25 49:6 53:9 22:15 clearly 15:17 42:13,22 43:19
21:2,14 cause 31:19 circumstance 34:19 44:19
24:7,13 39:22 17:3 closer 22:6 company 4:4,13
caused 14:1 circumstances cohesion 3:14,23 5:6,8 6:2,6,16
54:5,13 causes 31:15,18 34:7 48:8 49:15 9:21 14:6 19:6 6:22 7:1,5
56:2,6 causing 4:25 circumvent 19:17 11:10 25:8,8
54:1,8 36:20,21,22 claim 5:15 6:15 24:8 30:20 32:18
18:1,17 30:11 claims 3:16,21 15:12 17:22 41:5,10,21,23
37:7 10:8,11 16:25 18:18 22:1 23:7 comes 31:25 53:24 55:7,13
9:7 10:2 4:19 5:20 15:19 33:14,25 35:11 19:16,19 32:14 40:9
12:15 16:1,7,13,20 36:2,5 37:4 32:17 33:17 comparisons 8:1
14:12 23:4 24:3,10,12 38:14,18,22,23 36:14 37:4 41:22
24:14,17 25:12 39:3,6 41:4 38:25 39:3 compelled 19:12
19:7 25:15,17,20 45:10 46:9 49:25 50:1 54:2 compensated
21:7,7,18 26:1,3,6,23 50:16,24 51:10 54:14,17 15:13
22:14 27:1 35:3,19 51:15 53:17 commonality compensation
24:19 49:4 51:19,21 54:12 3:14 10:20 19:7 20:1 55:16
26:19
contrary 28:25 Court's 14:1 decisionmakers described 20:24
23:15 control 11:10 27:18 40:21 5:16 7:14 9:10 44:8
cornerstone creep 13:5 decisions 7:15 detailed 25:2
corporate 4:8 criteria 12:9 25:2 25:5,7,10 27:7 9:5 47:17
corporation cross-examine 29:25,25 30:19 determining 39:8
correct 14:19 crucial 16:12 34:16,24 40:9 difference 10:7
course 26:17 21:6,12 23:15 22:23 46:11,16 directly 48:3
34:13 7:24,25 8:20,23 44:16 53:8 3:24 4:9 25:22 discount 9:3
51:13 8:25 9:4 10:7 day 15:12 22:25 35:10 discounted 8:21
14:3 15:12,12 deal 42:25 6:14 40:18,20 28:12
21:5,17 22:19 decentralized demonstrate 3:25 5:17 10:19
26:12,14 28:14 decentralizing demonstration 24:6 27:18 28:5
dispute 18:25 29:17 30:25 extraordinary
24:5 district 7:24 8:20employed 51:17 estoppel 23:19
35:8 9:2,3 10:7 15:7 employee 53:15 24:8 F
52:4 15:24 19:22 53:20,21 et 1:6 46:19 faces 28:1
39:16 28:14,19 34:5 19:13 39:20 50:17 facie 26:19 50:2
37:13,22 44:13 employer 38:1 9:18 29:10,11 29:2
46:15 47:15 10:25 11:2 36:11 38:10 33:1,17 36:11
5:7 6:3,4 52:5,7,15 35:14 44:1 42:10 45:1 36:15 38:11
7:2,6 diversity 4:6 Enabling 23:1 47:10 48:7,11 43:18 50:23
14:12 55:13,16,19 endorsed 34:5,6 48:12 50:1 55:5
15:18 56:1 enforced 15:2 54:11 factfinder 8:19
22:21 divvying 22:17 engaging 42:23 exactly 11:3 42:1 factor 39:17,21
24:20,22 doing 6:25 27:20 44:1 46:3 50:15
26:22 29:10 34:20 engulfed 18:5 example 4:17 7:7 factors 10:24
33:2,5 47:22 ensure 7:5,6 25:6 13:11 26:13 11:2 34:23 38:6
36:3,8 dollars 50:12 27:7 28:25 40:8 examples 25:21 43:4 44:13
39:10,19 dominates 33:19 ensures 28:22 26:2,4,14 facts 16:19 18:9
42:11 door 33:13 entered 38:6 exception 34:8 24:1 36:18
43:11 Dr 32:23 entire 41:24 excessive 11:9 factual 9:1
44:1,18 drafters 21:21 42:10 43:25 11:18 failed 3:13,17
52:24 21:24 55:23 exercise 30:6,9 fair 10:22 23:20
dressing 55:9 entirely 11:6,7 exercised 5:17 27:2 36:25 37:2
52:19 entitled 15:8 exerted 11:10 Falcon 11:7 12:3
17:19 53:24 48:7 existed 54:7 47:14 53:1
11:21 E equality 43:14 experience favorably 38:3
12:12,13 E 2:1 3:1,1 equitable 19:1 53:15 favored 35:13
29:5,7,8 earlier 22:9 49:1 20:21 expert 7:21,22 features 28:14
30:13 edge 17:3 especially 5:8 13:3,4,5 14:4 Feeney 6:5,15
effect 7:15 9:12 14:14 18:15 33:10 female 54:20
26:24 41:3 2:6,9 expert's 9:12 fewer 27:23
40:1 effectively 25:10 establish 26:16 explained 8:3 field 4:10
30:7,22 46:23 26:18 39:9,15 explanation 32:4 Fifth 20:23 21:6
12:20 efforts 55:7 established extent 45:21 final 12:18
39:20 free 41:6 21:11 25:25 48:1 impact 11:21,25
17:19
3:12 7:11 15:15 34:2,3 35:23 held 49:14 47:2
48:1,9,25 52:15 higher 8:5 27:22
44:13 G 3:1 goodly 35:23 highly 3:16 39:1
gap 6:24 gotten 38:4 Hilao 22:1445:12 51:6
46:3 52:8
generalizations 48:15 hold 11:23 13:20
generally 39:15 guided 11:13 holds 26:19 42:5
27:10,10
33:11,19,22 50:23 22:4 23:8,24
45:3,13,16 50:6 Hansberry 5:14 54:13 56:3
45:22 50:11 52:7 19:10 host 34:22 28:6,9
given 29:22 30:5 happens 6:25 hundred 54:19
29:1
40:18,21
15:4,10 19:19,19 38:24 39:2 40:24
48:25 glad 55:11 Hazelwood 41:20 I individual 3:22
13:1 go 8:14 16:7 headquarters 4:8 identification 14:12 15:9,20
34:18 19:25 22:8 4:15 28:3 12:1 20:13,17 22:9
38:10 31:12 41:6 hear 3:3 identified 32:16 22:24 23:6,22
goals 55:13,16 hearing 45:5 identify 46:8 23:25 29:18
16:25 44:23 45:11,23 immunizing 41:4
17:4 18:4 31:16,19 14:10 15:19 Kennedy 5:20 legal 8:18 40:13
21:9 22:1 interest 14:2 16:1,7,13,20 6:9 27:13,16,25 legislative 21:19
45:23 46:3 interested 50:16 17:7,8,16 18:6 28:8 29:5 39:4 lesser 50:20
50:17 18:20 19:21 39:11,25 40:4 letter 26:7
20:9 IPO 9:7 21:10 23:4,21 49:22 41:25
34:2 isolates 43:3 24:3,10,12,14 Kennedy's 41:9 level 28:20 30:18
40:15 49:16 53:10 26:1,3,6,23 53:25 liable 5:22 43:22
43:10,19 54:2 56:5 27:1,13,16,25 kind 8:8 9:14 license 41:6
53:8 job 6:25 8:1,1 33:11,19,22 44:17 55:15
job-related 25:3 36:18 37:2,5,8 36:21 literature 41:14
50:8 2:6 24:15 40:17,23 41:8,9 30:14 35:6 locations 10:16
JR 1:15 2:3,9 3:7 41:13,16,23 40:19 43:10,14 longer 52:25
18:5,12 judge 9:3 15:7 43:5,6,9,13,17 known 36:21 24:24,25 39:19
19:5 19:22 34:1 37:8 44:2,3,6 45:3 52:18 41:20,21
50:17,19 37:9,13 45:4 45:13,16,24 knows 28:3,3 looked 12:24
54:4,12 52:15 46:2,7,14,21 50:25 17:1 18:12
19:20 20:10,13 47:21,25 48:10 L Los 1:15
42:25 32:19 54:1,8 55:8,12 law 14:13 17:4 M
jurisprudence 55:24 56:4,7 18:9 36:15,22 M 1:17 2:6 24:15
8:10,17 10:6,12 17:8 23:21 44:3 leaving 51:4,6 12:17 31:7,12
11:5,17 44:6 Lee 5:14 19:10 36:16,20,21,22
10:10 54:8 need 20:14 25:22 old 43:1 49:6,8 part 12:17,18
34:20 needed 9:15 one-half 13:21 particular 4:18
25:5 27:7 million 5:13 needs 9:7 12:1 operative 24:1 23:6 38:7 45:6
28:11,19 millions 22:1 20:16 opinion 11:25 45:21 47:10,11
29:2,4,22 Milner 21:18 negligence 42:12 opportunities 48:12
35:8 40:8 mind 15:25 neutral 4:3 27:23 parts 21:20
53:23 minimum 26:12 never 14:13 21:5 opportunity party 20:11,14
55:16 minutes 51:22 52:3 16:22 19:24 passed 6:23
mirror 7:19 22:15 46:12,24 47:4,6 5:4 7:17 11:20
model 38:7,9 nondiscriminat... opposed 6:3 23:17 26:16,18
47:23 Monell 5:21 6:10 note 21:17 50:12 19:24 20:1,8 16:2,5 18:4,25
17:4 18:8,13,18 notes 21:20 3:7 24:15 23:18 25:2,7,9
43:22 20:19,20 21:12 19:24 20:7 26:15,17 32:20 28:13,15 33:24
22:1 notion 19:18 36:23 53:17 34:3,10,12,23
morning 3:4 45:10 51:11 11:10 13:12 peer 38:3
19:23 N numbers 6:21 oversight 25:6 7:11 10:4,17
38:23 N 2:1,1 3:1 45:4 53:10 overwhelm 18:5 12:9,22 13:7,8
named 5:11 owed 38:2 45:6 13:15 20:9
35:5 37:18 national 8:11 objective 12:7,18 34:11,12 36:2
40:11,12 26:25 obligation 7:3,5 P 36:19 38:10
43:14 nationwide 3:11 27:6 34:14 P 3:1 51:5,11 52:9,11
54:18 56:1 natural 13:6 occur 6:17 page 2:2 11:11 people's 55:21
nature 19:18 occurred 22:22 11:11 55:6 percent 9:13
34:22 point 4:2,23 possibly 31:19 42:23 12:16 23:18
38:7,11 10:15 14:22 34:1 45:5 pretty 48:19 25:3,7 27:23
19:7 22:8 37:24 post 35:1 prevail 23:5 28:13,15 34:10
12:8 17:20 22:22 prima 26:19 50:2 31:14,25
33:15 26:22 39:9,11 problem 9:20 14:23 46:16
15:4 13:12 54:7 55:1 practices 4:11 29:14 33:23 protections
31:11 38:1 policy 4:5,14,24 12:4 28:23 52:13 17:14
5:4,23 6:2,3,4 precedents problems 19:6 prove 8:19 10:12
10:23 11:1,1,3 precisely 17:3 procedural 17:14 31:4 32:24
3:8 25:23 27:14 predicate 51:10 proceed 40:25 provides 28:11
28:7 30:16,16 prediction 22:16 41:2 29:3
32:17,18 33:2,3 17:15 52:15 publish 41:6
35:13,17,24 20:24 14:15 20:3,6
52:23 49:25 52:23 predominates 28:15 46:11 put 14:3 15:8
4:2 5:10 54:17,25,25 prefer 12:22,24 54:24 37:3 49:6 52:25
7:8 8:11 55:2,3,4,23 premise 41:19 processes 25:14 putting 9:15
10:12 population 27:4 premises 8:23 48:24
14:2,11,13 27:10 presents 39:3 profile 42:2 Q
16:5 populations 50:1 program 31:12 qualify 21:8
18:2 41:21 president 33:8 55:18 question 5:21,25
19:18 portion 38:23 55:9 prohibiting 40:25 6:8,14 8:18
22:13 pose 11:15 24:1 presume 51:3 promote 32:5,8 10:9 13:23 18:8
position 9:24 presumption promoted 9:23 20:18,25 21:12
55:1 17:8 19:14 17:23 22:21 9:25 32:10 24:2 31:5,5
possibility 18:17 presumptively promotion 6:24 48:16 50:1,7
52:1 54:2
49:18,23 report 4:21 9:12 46:13 30:24 31:15,18
32:12,14 34:10 44:20,20 represent 5:12 52:20,20 38:13,18,21,23
53:13 required 10:8 rigorously 15:2 43:5,9,13,17
reflects 56:3 3:14,15,18,23 23:4 24:3,12,14 scenario 54:6
regionally 7:22 28:18,22 40:20 robust 34:21 seek 5:6 31:8
33:4,6 8:13 37:16 43:2 respects 28:23 rule 3:13,15,17 18:16 31:8 52:4
45:2 regularly 25:9 Respondents 3:20,24 5:21 selection 53:4
49:6,11 relevant 27:8 1:18 2:7 24:16 17:2,2,5,9,13 SELLER 44:5
53:14 reliable 34:20 responding 8:15 20:12,16 21:14 Sellers 1:17 2:6
43:25 48:11,14 49:3 responsibility 51:7 25:15,19 26:1,5
48:6 40:14 ruling 20:3,5 28:8 29:7,21,24
51:23 17:19 18:5,12 rest 40:15,16 31:17,21 32:6,9
21:16 22:2,9 results 8:12 sampling 22:12 38:5,17,20,22
51:17 54:12 29:12 30:12 satisfy 3:13,17 40:19 41:1,12
48:5 relies 52:16 retail 27:5,10 saw 6:5 42:24 43:8,12
relying 23:11 39:16 saying 4:22 13:5 43:16 44:3,11
52:17 remaining 24:11 retained 16:5 35:20 41:3 46:2 46:6,13,20,23
45:21 remedial 25:1 20:15 25:12 48:3 55:18 48:2,17,21 49:9
53:21,22 44:4 29:23 30:10 says 9:7 34:1 49:12,22 50:10
remember 53:23 32:6 36:1,17 52:13,14,16 50:22,25 51:5
reminds 5:21 44:10 45:25 Scalia 29:13,21 sends 26:7
37:19 significantly 8:4 28:14 39:18 29:11 54:22 55:22
26:15 40:24 45:20 stop 7:3 36:23 suggested 11:1,7
40:10,12 spend 54:1 7:22,22 9:18 23:21 30:4
37:18 40:11,12 9:5,6 10:7,10 28:25 35:22,22 53:1
30:16,19 43:24,25 standardless 28:21 29:16,19 29:18
sociologist 13:19 49:16,17,23 stronger 13:16 support 26:9
42:18,23 sociologists standardlessn... stuff 49:8 54:3,11
39:14 48:23 Sturgell 20:11 supported 14:5
sort 8:9 17:3 state 11:23 17:17 25:13,21 29:15 sure 28:7 35:22
10:3 14:21 Sotomayor 7:20 states 1:1,12 35:21,25 36:3,4 sweeping 54:21
26:20 8:10,17 17:7,16 15:17 43:11 36:23 48:6 system 9:12 13:6
32:22 18:6,20 20:18 statistical 8:8,16 subjectivity 35:10 48:20,22
38:1 20:23 21:10 22:12 29:12 10:23 11:9,19
47:10 24:23 44:2 43:2 46:8 48:15 12:5 14:16 T
45:24 46:2,7,14 49:7 submit 26:12 T 2:1,1
52:22 53:6,7 statute 42:12 submitted 25:9 43:17 44:3
33:1,3 sought 22:2 stereotype 31:24 substantial 26:21 takes 43:3 48:10
50:1 sounds 13:2 47:5 stereotyped 7:15 44:21 52:19
49:20 so-called 12:19 stereotypical sufficiently talking 4:19 9:9
22:20 14:10 16:11 treated 10:3 36:6 41:8 violates 23:1,1
26:2,13 19:16 20:16 39:20 undisputed 14:25 36:1
34:14 21:24 22:5 23:2 treatment 6:15 unguided 11:12 violation 5:23
39:5 23:10,15 29:10 12:13 29:6,7,8 unit 4:18 13:13 6:11 13:1 16:12
42:9 50:3 32:11,20 33:2,6 35:5 36:1 39:20 13:15 41:10 42:3
37:22 40:21 trials 49:6 43:10 vision 52:2
44:11,23 48:17 40:17 43:20 28:7 wage 7:6
34:20
39:8 44:8
13:10,14 19:22 37:23,23 47:20 49:24 44:24 45:223:4 8:5 12:6
20:10,24 39:5 45:3,13,16 Tuesday 1:9 15:8 17:24
47:1 49:5
21:1,2,3 thousand 25:18 twice 7:1 50:14 22:10 23:6 25:1
22:5 25:19,20 35:22 two 3:12 7:23 8:8 uses 20:25 27:3,9,14,17
33:7,10 three 5:11 11:12 typical 5:11 v 1:5 3:4 5:14 47:12,13 48:3
21:18 25:24 31:10 41:9,24 19:10 20:11 52:3 53:1,19
thrown 53:17 variable 7:25 34:21 52:19
tie 12:12 U variables 8:3 want 10:20 36:10
2:3,9 3:7 54:7 55:14 unchallenged 47:1 wanted 6:18 41:7
Title 11:20,20 30:15 variations 42:1 55:20
26:10 40:7,14 41:10 unclear 15:24 victims 15:17 Washington 1:8
41:14 42:3,5 52:20 uncompensated 19:9 1:17
total 12:19,20,25 37:11 view 16:17 17:11 wasn't 9:4 12:21
totally 28:15 38:16 40:12 VII 11:20,20 43:20 53:2
6:1,13 touched 50:7 underpromoted 23:1 27:6 40:7 Watson 10:25
9:6 10:6 trained 31:4 47:3 40:14 41:10 11:22 24:20
19:16 20:5 27:22,23 31:6,6 1576 55:6
27:18 31:24 32:5,10 1983 5:22
34:1 32:22 33:2,6
35:25 35:5,7,11 36:7 2
37:2 37:3,20,24,25 2 16:24 17:17
43:20 38:11,14,15 18:7,13,22
50:20 39:16 40:1,10 20:10 22:3 50:8
54:17,24 42:17 43:15 50:14 51:10,15
work 7:2 27:20 23(a)'s 3:13
39:2 workers 27:11 21:15,24 33:25
workforce 41:25 51:7
28:13,23 world 23:9 40:16 20:17
34:2 wouldn't 17:20 24 2:7
47:22 17:21 20:7 38:4 29 1:9
51:2 53:3,19
2:4 18:8,10,14
54:2 30:21 33:1 55:4
50:15
42:8,8
20:25 39:5
51:22
26:14 34:7
49:14
5
49:1,14
32:8 37:17 1 13:21
52:4,24 7
8:5 48:24 49:1
70s 12:15
1:4 3:4
14:17,17 10:19 1:13 3:2
16:14 9
56:9 90 9:13
