IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
BLAINE LAFLER, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 10-209
ANTHONY COOPER. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, October 31, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ., Solicitor General, Lansing,
Michigan; on behalf of Petitioner.
WILLIAM M. JAY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Petitioner.
VALERIE R. NEWMAN, ESQ., Assistant Defender, Detroit,
Michigan; appointed by this Court, on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
WILLIAM M. JAY, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States,
as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner 18
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
VALERIE R. NEWMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 58
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-209, Lafler v. Cooper.
Mr. Bursch.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. BURSCH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BURSCH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
There are three points that I would like to
press this morning regarding deficient plea advice.
First, this Court has consistently limited the effective
assistance right to ensuring the reliability of the
proceedings where a defendant is adjudicated guilty and
sentenced. Mere outcome is not the Strickland prejudice
standard.
Second, when asserting an ineffective
assistance claim, the defendant --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I -- can I stop you on
the first? You say mere outcome is not enough,
reliability of the proceedings. How does that fit with
Kimmelman, where we said it, the right to effective
assistance, does attach to suppression hearings,
obviously where evidence would not make the proceedings
more reliable?
MR. BURSCH: Justice Kagan, even in
Kimmelman, the Court remanded back to the lower courts
to determine whether there was prejudice, and the
obvious implication was that if there was no prejudice
on the fairness of the adjudicatory proceeding itself,
there would be no Sixth Amendment violation.
The second point that I wanted to press this
morning was that when asserting an ineffective
assistance claim, a defendant must show deprivation of a
substantive or procedural right, and this Court has
already held that a defendant has no right to a plea
bargain.
Third, every possible remedy for deficient
plea advice creates intractable problems
demonstrating the right --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, isn't there a
right to make a critical decision on whether to accept
or reject a plea bargain, once offered? There's no
right to demand one or to keep it, but isn't there a
right to make that kind of critical decision?
MR. BURSCH: Justice Sotomayor, the -- the
not guilty plea is an assertion of the defendant's
constitutional rights. It's invoking the right to trial
that the Sixth Amendment contemplates. And so this
situation is really more like Fretwell. It's not a
decision that you have, for example, whether to have a
jury or not to have a jury, or whether to have this
attorney appointed for your counsel or not, because in
each of those cases you have an underlying substantive
or procedural constitutional right; and you have no
right to a plea. And so this fork in the road is really
an illusory one, because you have no right to choose the
other side of the fork.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose this were a death
-- a death case, and roughly the same facts, failure --
failure to communicate. And that leaves me just one
other question based on your opening remarks. We can
think about adjudication as having a constitutional
violation, injury, and remedy. Are you saying that
there was a violation in the abstract here but no
injury, or was there a violation and an injury but just
no remedy?
MR. BURSCH: I'm saying --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So if you could do all of
that, including the death penalty, I --
MR. BURSCH: Yes, I'm saying that there's no
violation, because in order to prove a Sixth Amendment
violation, you have to demonstrate unreliability of the
adjudicatory process. I'm also saying that there's no
reasonable remedy, and I'll talk about that in a minute.
With respect to the death penalty in
particular, I would refer this Court right back to the
Fretwell decision, because there, too, defendant and his
counsel had an opportunity to raise a Collins objection
that would have changed the sentence to avoid the death
penalty in that case. Collins obviously was overruled
before habeas process, and this Court held that the
defendant could not use the vehicle of an ineffective
assistance claim to regain that lost opportunity because
he had no constitutional right in it. And so, really
the remedy -- I'm sorry. The severity of the sentence
doesn't enter the analysis once you've established that
there has been no violation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When you say no violation,
you don't mean that there was no ineffective assistance
of counsel? I thought that was conceded, that there was
ineffective assistance.
MR. BURSCH: That's correct, Justice
Ginsburg. We have conceded for purposes of argument
that there was ineffective assistance. But Strickland
is a two-part test, and even after you get past the
deficiency prong, there's still the question of whether
this casts some doubt on the reliability of the
proceedings.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I thought that the
second part of the test asked about harm. And here the
person is sitting in prison for three times as long as
he would have been sitting in prison had he had
effective assistance of counsel at the plea bargaining
stage. So, why doesn't that just meet the requirements
of Strickland, both deficiency and prejudice?
MR. BURSCH: Well, that's actually the best
argument that the Respondent has in this case. And the
reason --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Sounds like a good argument.
(Laughter.)
MR. BURSCH: Well, the reason why it's wrong
is because this Court has been very careful to define
what that harm is. Specifically, the word was "outcome"
in Cronic and Strickland. If you --
JUSTICE KAGAN: And outcome -- there is a
different outcome here. He's sitting in prison for
three times as long. That's a different outcome.
MR. BURSCH: Yes, but the Court went on to
define "outcome" to mean reliability of the adjudicatory
process. In fact, specifically, the language was
whether absent the deficiency, the defendant -- I'm
sorry. Absent the deficiency, the factfinder would have
had a reasonable doubt respecting guilt. And what we
have here is a situation where everyone acknowledges --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, take the sentencing
cases. The sentencing cases, the determination of guilt
is over, and the question is, is this person sitting in
jail for 1 day longer because his counsel was
ineffective? And if he is, we would find prejudice
there. So, why isn't the same thing true here?
MR. BURSCH: Well, I don't believe it's quite
that simple. If there was some legal error, you know,
an error to which he had a constitutional right, then
certainly what you said is exactly true. But if you're
talking about more or less days because of, for example,
a judge thinking that the -- the difference between
crack and cocaine sentences was not appropriate or other
things that are really up to the discretion of the trial
court judge, Strickland says absolutely those things are
not Sixth Amendment violations.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I guess I don't
understand that answer, because that answer seems to
suggest that the -- that the assistance being provided
was not ineffective. But here, as Justice Ginsburg
notes, you've conceded that the assistance is
ineffective. That assistance has led to a much, much,
much longer sentence. You know, as opposed to some of
the sentencing cases suggest that 24 hours is enough,
this is 10 years or something. And, you know, that
should be the end of the game, no?
MR. BURSCH: Well, let's try another
sentencing hypothetical, where it's clear that there was
deficient performance. Say that there's a local trial
court judge and everyone knows that he has a certain
predilection that if you like the local sports team,
he's going to give you a break. If the attorney comes
in and he does not press the argument that this
convicted defendant likes the local sports team, he gets
a higher sentence, that's still not a Sixth Amendment
violation.
Really, once you shift to sentencing, the
question is, were you legally entitled to the result?
And simply because he failed to appeal to the right
discretionary tendencies of the trial court doesn't
really make a difference. Here we're talking,
obviously, about the guilt phase, and it's much easier
here because it says clearly in Strickland and Cronic
and Kimmelman and many, many other cases that that
outcome difference, the harm difference, has to be
reliability of the process itself. It's a process --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You acknowledge, though,
that it's ineffective assistance of counsel if you're --
well, no, I guess you haven't acknowledged. Let me ask
you: Have you provided ineffective assistance of
counsel if you are a lousy bargainer? You're just no
good at the -- you know, at -- I don't know -- the game
of bargaining. And so, you do a bad job in bargaining
down the sentence, I mean a notoriously bad job. Is
that ineffective assistance of counsel?
MR. BURSCH: Under the Court's first prong of
Strickland, you would have to look at whatever the
standards of professional practice were, and depending
how lousy the bargainer was, it could or could not be
deficient. But the important thing is if it didn't have
any effect on the subsequent trial and sentencing, then
it would not be a Sixth Amendment violation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't even agree
with the first part. I don't think our legal process
is -- is a bargaining game. Shouldn't be.
MR. BURSCH: Well, we could agree with that.
Bargaining is not what this is about, and that's why
this Court has held in Weatherford and other cases that
there is no right to the plea bargain itself. And
that's really the second --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You can -- you can agree
with that when 95 percent of the criminal cases are
disposed of by way of bargaining?
MR. BURSCH: Because in the 95 percent of
cases that are disposed of that way, this Court has
already held in Padilla and Hill that there is a
constitutional right to have effective counsel when
you're accepting that plea. And the difference is when
you're accepting a plea, you're being convicted. That
is the conviction. And this Court frequently
establishes different tests when you're waiving a right,
for example the right to go to trial, versus invoking a
right, going to trial.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How can you talk about
the reliability of a process or its fairness when you
have an attorney who has fundamentally misgauged the
law? How can a trial be fair when the attorney is going
into a trial thinking his client can't be convicted
because the shots fired hit below the waist?
MR. BURSCH: Because --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, how can that kind of
trial ever be fair?
MR. BURSCH: Because there's no evidence
here, not even a contention, that his belief had any
impact whatsoever on the fairness of the trial
proceeding. And this Court has drawn a bright-line rule
at trial. You know, if you look at the preliminary
hearing, if there's attorney error there, deficiency --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but you skipped over
a step. I think we do assume that the deficient advice
led to the -- the determination to plead not guilty.
MR. BURSCH: Right. Again -- but that fork
in the road is not one to which he has a substantive
procedural right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but that's the
question -- that's the question we're confronting. So,
I think --
MR. BURSCH: Well, I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- your answer was a
little too facile on that point.
MR. BURSCH: I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We have to assume there's
ineffective assistance of counsel in advising the client
the nature of the charge for the -- so that the client
can make up his mind whether to plead guilty or not
guilty.
MR. BURSCH: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We have to assume that in
this case, correct?
MR. BURSCH: Correct, we are assuming that.
But what I would submit respectfully is that the plea
stage isn't any different than a preliminary hearing or
a line-up or a suppression hearing, where if there was
some deficient attorney conduct, this Court would still
then look to see whether it had an adverse impact on the
adjudication of guilt.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose the defective
advice causes the defendant to enter a plea that he
would not have entered if he had been properly advised.
Can he get relief?
MR. BURSCH: Absolutely. Under Hill and
Padilla, this Court has said when you give up your right
to trial, that's a very different situation and that
there is a remedy for that. And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, explain why defective
advice causing a plea, that qualifies, but defective
advice causing defendant to turn down a plea --
MR. BURSCH: It's just --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- does not?
MR. BURSCH: It's just like the difference
between deciding to proceed with counsel, in which case
there's -- there's no barrier to entry, or deciding to
proceed without counsel, giving up the constitutional
right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, the difference -- that's
not the difference at all. It seems to me the
difference is when you plead guilty you deprive yourself
of the 24-karat test of fairness, which is trial by jury
before nine people who have to find you guilty beyond a
reasonable doubt. When you plead guilty, you give up
that.
When you don't plead guilty, you get what is
the best thing in our legal system. You can't do any
better than that.
MR. BURSCH: Justice Scalia, you said it much
more artfully, but that's exactly the point I was trying
to make with Justice Ginsburg, that when you invoke your
constitutional right, your right to have an attorney, to
go to a trial, to have a jury, we don't set up barriers
to entry. It's only when you give up those rights.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I take it, then, Mr. Bursch,
you would have the same answer if the State had never
provided counsel at all. So long as -- if the plea
negotiations were all done between the prosecutor and
the individual defendant, and the -- and the State
refused to provide the individual defendant with
counsel, but so long as the person in the end decided,
oh, I don't like this plea, I'll go to trial, then it's
all fine and dandy under the Sixth Amendment?
MR. BURSCH: That would be our position,
because that's consistent with this Court's holding in
Coleman and Wade and Kimmelman, that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that would also be your
position in a capital case?
MR. BURSCH: Yes. Under Fretwell, this Court
held definitively that so long as the reliability of the
adjudicatory process and sentence were intact, that the
deficient advice didn't affect it, that the severity of
the punishment was not legally relevant.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, your position is you're
entitled to effective assistance of counsel before you
plead guilty, but you're not entitled to effective
assistance of counsel in evaluating plea offers?
MR. BURSCH: I would say it slightly
different --
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.
MR. BURSCH: -- that you are entitled to
effective counsel at every critical stage; however, it
is not a Sixth Amendment violation unless it casts doubt
on the reliability of the adjudication of guilt.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That gets back to my
question: Is it a violation in the abstract then, of
damnum absque injuria?
MR. BURSCH: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Damage without injury.
MR. BURSCH: No, because under the Strickland
and Cronic cases, there is no damage, there's no Sixth
Amendment violation, unless you can prove the prejudice.
JUSTICE ALITO: I mean, all of this is
theoretically interesting, and it may be that capital
cases are sui generis here. But I thought the heart of
your argument was that there just is no way to
unscramble the eggs in this situation; there is no --
and that was your third point, and I understood it.
MR. BURSCH: Correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: There is no remedy that can
put the parties back into the position where they would
have been had the error regarding the legal issue not
occurred.
MR. BURSCH: That's exactly right. And let's
talk about the two remedies that are most frequently
bandied about in the circuit courts. The first is to
order a new trial. And to us, it makes no sense to
order a second trial after you've already had a first
error-free trial.
In addition, you think about these habeas
cases; if you're issuing a habeas writ and vacating a
sentence 8 or 9 years after the fact, like you are here,
essentially you're releasing the defendant, because
witnesses will die, they'll move away, memories will be
sparse. And so, that's the natural effect of that.
And in Cooper's brief, he doesn't even
advocate for a second trial; he asks for specific
performance. The problem with that is there you're
infringing on the prosecutor's discretion, which is
sacred, to say what his plea offer is going to be. And
circumstances have changed once a trial has taken place.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, "sacred" is a
little strong, don't you think? I mean, it is a -- to
some extent, unfair to the prosecutor because he knows
already he's got a guilty verdict in his pocket, and he
has to go back. But why is it so terribly difficult to
tell the defendant he has a right to accept that offer
if he wants, but then go through the normal process,
which is it has to be approved by a judge and all that
stuff? I don't see what's terribly difficult about
that.
MR. BURSCH: We contend it violates the
separation of powers. But you bring up an important
point because circumstances have changed in two
respects. The first is that you learn more information.
So, here, for example, the prosecutor learned that not
only did Mr. Cooper shoot Kali Mundy, but he did it
while she was screaming and running away from him.
That's a changed circumstance. He might not give the
same plea. Even more so in Frye, where they learned
that he was picked for another criminal violation after
the plea was given, and the prosecutor testified that he
would have taken the plea back when he knew that.
But the bigger changed circumstance is the
trial itself, because the prosecutor has now gone
through the risk of having an acquittal. He has also
put, for example, the 8-year-old sexual abuse defendant
on the stand, something he tried to avoid with the plea
offer. And it truly is an egg that cannot be
unscrambled.
And unless there are further questions, I
will reserve of the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Jay.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM M. JAY
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. JAY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Petitioner's convictions and sentence are
reliable because the proceedings that produced them were
reliable. And to collaterally attack his convictions or
his sentence based on allegedly ineffective assistance
of counsel, he has to show that the ineffective
assistance of counsel prejudiced him. As this Court's
Strickland cases have used that term, that means he has
to show that a reviewing court should lack confidence in
the proceeding that produced the convictions or the
sentence.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you -- first, there's
nothing about this in the Sixth Amendment, is there? I
mean, the text of the Sixth Amendment talks about
criminal prosecutions requiring the assistance of
counsel for defense, period.
MR. JAY: The Sixth Amendment requires the
assistance of --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, there's nothing
in the Sixth Amendment that has these qualifications. I
haven't seen anything in any case which was other than
case specific. That is, this issue hasn't been decided
before, not to my knowledge. The language can be taken
out of those cases, as you've very properly done. And
so, there's nothing that I could find in the cases.
Nothing in the Sixth Amendment itself. In 95 percent of
the cases, they do plead guilty. And what's the problem
about ordering the prosecution to simply repeat the
offer he gave before?
Well, I mean, I don't really see if there --
and prejudice? What if a person's been executed? If he
had gotten the -- if he had gotten the plea offer, he
would have pled guilty for 50 years in jail, okay?
That's my imaginary case. I can think of one where
there's prejudice. He's dead. All right? So, what's
the answer in my imaginary case, if it's not in the
amendment, not in -- not a holding, et cetera?
MR. JAY: Well, I think that -- let me
address that capital hypothetical that has come up
several times. And I think that it's instructive,
Justice Breyer, to look at this Court's Strickland cases
and look at what remedy they order when there has been
ineffective assistance that shakes the reviewing court's
confidence in the proceeding that produced it. They
order a new proceeding. They don't order a specific
sentence. That's why the outcome has never been the --
the yardstick by which ineffective assistance of --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't want to -- I want to
stop you there because I don't understand it. The
suggestion is -- I'm not taking this case; I'm making up
a hypothetical since we're discussing it really based on
the next case. The defendant never heard the offer,
never heard it. It is crystal clear that if he'd heard
it, he would have accepted it. Okay? I'm trying to
separate out difficulties of this case, which strikes me
as difficult because of the facts, from the principle.
And what I want you to do is to tell me why I shouldn't
accept the principle, and then we can worry about what's
a clear case.
MR. JAY: But I think the principle,
Justice Breyer, is that you look at what the -- you look
at what it is the Court's being asked to set aside.
JUSTICE BREYER: Death. Let's say death.
MR. JAY: Right. So, in this case, you look
at the death sentence. How was that death sentence
produced? If the defendant can show, for example, that
he got bad advice about the plea --
JUSTICE BREYER: He shows that never did he
ever become aware, because his lawyer was sleeping and
moved on vacation and never told him about the plea
offer. That's my hypothetical.
MR. JAY: I think that's actually an easier
hypothetical than the bad advice because you could show
that if the lawyer then gets -- stands up and does a
bang-up job at trial, right -- the defendant is
convicted of capital murder. The defendant can't show
any prejudicial effect on the trial. That means that no
other lawyer doing a better job could have gotten the --
could even show a reasonable probability that a
different verdict would ensue.
JUSTICE ALITO: No, the Court has said --
MR. JAY: That defendant has a reliable
capital murder conviction.
JUSTICE ALITO: The Court has said that death
is different. And did you think it is inconceivable
that there could be a different rule for capital cases,
such as a rule requiring that, in a capital case, any
offer of a noncapital sentence as part of a plea bargain
actually be waived by the defendant in court so that
this doesn't come up? This is not a capital case.
MR. JAY: This is not a capital case, and I
think that it certainly --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If you don't
want to do the capital case? I'm still trying to get to
the principle.
MR. JAY: I'm happy to do the capital case,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'll change my hypothetical
and say all that happened was that this perfect trial,
because of mandatory sentencing rules, led him to prison
for 50 years, as compared with a plea bargain which
would have given him 2 years. Now, he is in prison for
48 years more, and I consider that that's at least
harmful to him. So, where the amendment doesn't speak
of it, where the misbehavior of the lawyer is crystal
clear, where it's 48 years more in prison, what is it
that bars what seems to me obvious that an inadequate
assistance of counsel, remedial through a specific
decree saying reinstitute the offer, led to enormous
unfairness and prejudice?
MR. JAY: Two points, Justice Breyer. I'm --
and I want to make sure that I get out my answer to your
capital hypothetical, because you don't look just at
whether the sentence that resulted was worse than the
sentence that could have resulted. If that were the
case, Fretwell would have come out the other way.
That's death if -- with no objection made, life sentence
if the objection had been made. So, it's not an
outcome -- it's not a narrow comparison of outcomes.
What you look at is how the sentence was produced. Is
this defendant entitled, had this -- to a lesser
sentence?
Is this -- had this defendant had a better
lawyer at sentencing, is there even a reasonable
probability that the -- that that lawyer, through a
different strategy for identifying a legal error --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Jay, you disagree with
the assertion that Justice Breyer made that this was
unfair. This man deserved to get the sentence he got,
didn't he? He had a full and fair trial. A jury of 12
people, finding him guilty beyond a reasonable doubt,
determined that he deserved that sentence. How could it
be unfair to give him the sentence that he deserved?
MR. BURSCH: Yes, that's correct. In every
case --
JUSTICE BREYER: The lists are legion where
people don't get the sentence that they deserve because,
for example, the lawyer was inadequate. I mean --
MR. JAY: And in those cases, Justice Breyer,
you show that the lawyer had a bad strategy at
sentencing. That may well have been the same bad
strategy that led the lawyer to recommend a not guilty
plea. Let's go to trial on my crazy strategy. If he
can show that and he can show that a better lawyer with
a better strategy would produce a different result, then
the Sixth Amendment entitles that person to a new
proceeding. The Sixth Amendment never entitles the
person to have a court order a particular sentence.
And you can't use the prosecutor's offer
made at a different time as the benchmark and say, well,
the prosecutor was okay with it at this other time;
therefore, the prosecution must be forced to live with
it now. And that's because a plea offer rests on a
number of considerations: the need to obtain the
defendant's cooperation in other cases; the desire to
spare the witnesses and the victim the burdens of trial;
and, frankly, to avoid the risk of an acquittal. And
the prosecution in this case and in cases like this one,
where there has been a reliable conviction and reliable
sentencing, the prosecution has already incurred all of
those burdens. So, to look at the 51-month minimum
offer that was made 8 years ago and have that be the
benchmark simply is not something that this Court has
ever done in its Strickland cases. And I think that
it's revealing about the Respondent's --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Jay, you don't contest
that plea bargaining is a critical phase, entitling
somebody to a lawyer and to an effective lawyer, do you?
MR. BURSCH: We don't -- we don't think --
that's not part of our argument here.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, because we've said that
many times; isn't that right?
MR. BURSCH: Well, the Court -- let me be
precise, Justice Kagan, because there are two things
that the Court can be talking about. There's the --
there's the -- the interaction between the State and the
defendant, and that's where the Court has customarily
used language like "critical stage," a confrontation
between the defendant and the prosecution.
That's not what we have here. This is about
private advice between the lawyer and the client, and
we're not contesting that he has a right to have that
advice be effective.
JUSTICE KAGAN: What we have recognized,
right, is that plea bargaining is a critical phase
because about 98 percent of the action of the criminal
justice system occurs in plea bargaining. And to
deprive somebody of a lawyer at that stage of the
process, where 98 percent of the action occurs, is
inconsistent with the Sixth Amendment. That's what
we've said. Isn't that right?
MR. BURSCH: Well, I don't think the Court
has faced up -- faced this particular situation, Justice
Kagan.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, it's not a critical
phase. It's only a critical phase depending on the
outcome of what happens at that phase?
MR. JAY: We are -- we are assuming that --
that Mr. Cooper in this case had a right to receive
effective advice about whether to enter this plea. But
we're -- our position is that he wasn't prejudiced
because what --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Has -- have you ever seen a
critical phase before in our Sixth Amendment
jurisprudence where the right to a lawyer depends upon
what has -- what happens during that critical phase,
where if one outcome results, there is no Sixth
Amendment right, but if another outcome results there
is?
MR. JAY: Well, again, we don't think this is
in any way crucial to deciding this case, but
Scott v. Illinois, Justice Kagan, is an example of that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Jay, couldn't --
couldn't it be said that what our cases hold is that
pleading guilty is a critical phase? Would that be
enough to explain our cases?
MR. JAY: It certainly is correct that
pleading -- that a guilty plea hearing, where the
defendant --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it's correct, but is
it enough? Do you want us to write an opinion that plea
negotiations are not a critical stage of the criminal
process unless at the end of the day a guilty plea
results?
MR. JAY: That's not at all what we're
asking, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Okay. So, we --
MR. JAY: What we are asking -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Justice Kagan and I want to
know what your test is.
MR. JAY: Our test to resolve this case is to
look at what it is that the habeas petitioner is
challenging. He's challenging conviction and his
sentence. In the conviction, he was found guilty by a
jury. He now says, page 14a of the red brief, that he
is guilty and he wishes he had pleaded guilty sooner.
No basis for challenging the conviction.
May I finish the thought on the sentence?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
MR. JAY: And -- on this sentence, he was
sentenced in accordance with law. He had effective
representation at sentencing, and he got the sentence
that corresponds to the counts of conviction. What he
wants is to reinstate a deal that was in the
prosecution's discretion to offer once upon a time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. JAY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Newman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF VALERIE R. NEWMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. NEWMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
It is uncontroverted here that Anthony Cooper
received incompetent advice from his counsel. It is
uncontroverted here that, as a result of that
incompetent advice, Mr. Cooper is serving between 100
and 134 months of extra time of imprisonment.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think that's not -- that
he got ineffective assistance, yes, that's not
controverted. But that he would have gotten the 51
months or 68 is certainly controverted because of two
interventions. The prosecutor can say: No deal; I'm
withdrawing it, even after an initial acceptance. And
the judge can say: I think 51 to 68 is entirely
improper for what this man did.
MS. NEWMAN: Those are both true, Justice
Ginsburg -- Justice Ginsburg, but, however, the
Strickland test requires a reasonable probability of a
different result. And on this record, we have no
reasonable probability -- we have no reason to expect
that that's not exactly what would have happened.
JUSTICE ALITO: The relief that you want is
specific performance of the plea bargain.
MS. NEWMAN: Correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that correct?
What if it had come to light or come to the
prosecutor's attention during this intervening time that
your client had committed four or five other shootings?
Would you still be entitled to specific performance?
MS. NEWMAN: Yes. We evaluate the case, and
the Strickland analysis is an imperfect -- the
Strickland remedy is an imperfect remedy. It has always
been an imperfect remedy. It will always be an
imperfect remedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what is the judge
supposed to do? Let's say the remedy is it goes back
before the judge. We're trying to unwind the clock or
whatever the metaphor is. Does the judge have to
prescind all knowledge of what he learned in the trial?
MS. NEWMAN: Well, this Court has stated
numerous times that it presumes a conscientious
decisionmaker, and a conscientious decisionmaker would
put --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm asking what --
I'm a conscientious decisionmaker, and I'm asking for
your advice on what I should do.
MS. NEWMAN: That you would --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I know the details of this
crime, which were more horrific than I would have
expected, because I've heard them at the trial. Do I
just somehow forget about that, prescind that?
MS. NEWMAN: You would evaluate the case as
you would have evaluated it at the time of the
proceedings.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So, the answer is "yes."
I -- I ignore everything that I learned during the
trial.
MS. NEWMAN: Yes, because the deficient --
you evaluate things at the point of the deficient
performance. And at the point of the deficient
performance, the judge had a certain amount of
information before him, the prosecutor had a certain
amount of information before him, and the defense
attorney had a certain amount of information before him.
JUSTICE ALITO: I mean, that's pretty
incredible. It doesn't matter what the defendant has
done in the -- has been discovered to have done in the
interim? Committed 5 murders, 10 murders?
MS. NEWMAN: Well, in that case --
JUSTICE ALITO: Wipe it out of your mind; you
get -- you get the plea bargain that was offered at an
early point in -- in the investigation of the case?
MS. NEWMAN: Yes, because what happens in
ineffective assistance of counsel claims is the State
has to bear the burden of the unconstitutionality. And
so, that is a price that this Court has said the State
will bear when there is -- when there's a constitutional
violation, because there is no perfect --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How can the judge -- the
judge -- he knows what the plea -- let's say he knows
what the plea bargain was, but he also knows that for
one of the crimes, felon in possession, that alone, the
sentencing range is 81 to 135. So, without any --
considering anything that happened at trial, the judge
knows that the plea bargain was for less than if the man
had been charged with -- only with a felon in
possession.
MS. NEWMAN: Yes, that's accurate.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, it -- it seems most
unlikely that a judge would have accepted the plea
bargain for 51 to 68 for the crimes that were charged.
MS. NEWMAN: No, I would disagree with that.
This -- in this Court -- and I can represent to the
Court, in my practice before this Court, which I have
practiced before this Court for many, many years, this
plea bargain was an ordinary plea bargain. This was not
anything extraordinary. It was very run of the mill.
It was -- it was a run-of-the-mill case --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That may be, but is it not
true that the sentence range was 81 to 135 for a felon
in possession?
MS. NEWMAN: I did not -- typically, you only
score out the guidelines for the most serious offense.
So, the guidelines may have been high for the felon in
possession offense, but, however, the judge -- in
fashioning the remedy, you're not going to -- this Court
would not take discretion away from the judge. So, in
fashioning the remedy, in adopting the remedy of the
Sixth Circuit if this Court were to do that, this case
would go back before this same judge if he's still on
the bench, and it would be -- would put people back --
Mr. Cooper would accept the plea, but the judge retains
sentencing discretion.
JUSTICE BREYER: It wouldn't be a problem.
The problem with Justice Alito's hypothetical, I take
it, is what the order would say is that the prosecution
has to, for a reasonable time, extend the same offer.
And then if it's accepted, you go to the judge. The
judge doesn't have to accept the plea.
MS. NEWMAN: Right. You can't find --
JUSTICE BREYER: You can't make him do that.
But I have a bigger problem with this case, which is --
which I may be the only one to have. But as I've looked
at it, I don't see ineffective assistance of counsel
within the AEDPA meaning. That is, you have two courts
in the State which have said this is not ineffective.
And as I look at it, it's somewhat ambiguous at best.
And we have the Sixth Circuit saying it is. Well, I
know both sides agree, but I mean, both sides couldn't
make us decide a case by saying there's a murder when in
fact it's not.
I mean -- so, what am I supposed to do about
that? I find this a tough case. I've read the record,
and in my own opinion at this moment, perhaps no one
else's, there is no ineffective assistance of counsel
such that the Sixth Circuit could set that aside -- a
contrary finding of the State court.
What do I do?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If Justice Breyer permits
me to add an addendum to give the reasons why I might
agree with him or a way of viewing this, as I read the
lower court's decisions, they said there wasn't
ineffectiveness because he was just trying to get a
better deal.
And I think that, translating what he said,
the very reasonable view by the court was the prosecutor
may think of a lesser charge, because if this guy really
wanted to kill this woman, he would have hit her head or
her chest, but he aimed low. So, he was really just
angry and shooting enough so that if he hit her, okay,
if she died, okay. But he really didn't have that
heinous intent to execute, you know, a gunshot to the
brain. And so, he was hoping to negotiate something
better. If that's -- Justice Breyer is shaking his
head. If that in fact -- if this is an AEDPA case, and
we have to give deference to the State courts, doesn't
that resolve this case?
MS. NEWMAN: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We have to give
deference to their finding.
MS. NEWMAN: You do have to give deference
to their finding. There's no question under AEDPA
there's -- there's deference. And there's actually no
question there's sort of a doubly deferential review,
given the Strickland analysis. However, the State
courts did not decide this case on Sixth Amendment
grounds. So, there is nothing to give deference to.
The State courts decided this, and the trial court said
Mr. Cooper made his own choices. That's not an
ineffective assistance of counsel analysis.
The court of appeals in Michigan also did
not engage in a Sixth Amendment analysis. They adopted
the trial court and said that Mr. Cooper made his own
choices. So, there is -- and this claim was raised
specifically on Sixth Amendment grounds from the very
beginning of the appeal until it reached this Court.
So, there is no AEDPA deference to give to the State
courts' decisions. There is no question as well that it
was ineffective assistance, because the State court
record does not bear out that Mr. McClain was trying to
get a better deal. The State court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You said -- you said
earlier that the district court, the trial court judge,
still retains discretion as to whether or not to approve
the plea bargain, right, whether to accept it?
MS. NEWMAN: The sentencing.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes -- well, which is
it, the bargain or the sentence? It includes the
sentence, correct?
MS. NEWMAN: It's a sentence recommendation,
and under Michigan law, the judge cannot --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He has discretion --
he has discretion.
MS. NEWMAN: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, is he allowed to
take into consideration all that's happened before, not
just with respect to guilt or innocence or the result of
the trial, but in imposing the sentence or approving it?
MS. NEWMAN: Well, he can take into account
anything that he could have taken into account in the
first place. But in this case --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But nothing that he
learned at trial, I take it.
MS. NEWMAN: I would argue no. I mean,
certainly this Court's set of parameters --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if he turns -- what if
he turns it down, Ms. Newman? He says, no, I can't
accept this. What happens then? You have a new --
MS. NEWMAN: I would say that's not an
option -- oh, I'm sorry. For the judge --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah, the judge. It goes
back to the judge. We agree with you, and we send it
back to the judge. We reinstate the offer, okay? He
accepts the offer. It goes to the judge, and the judge
says: No, this is outrageous. I'm not going to approve
this plea bargain.
What happens then?
MS. NEWMAN: Well, in that case, the case
would proceed under Michigan law. In that case, the
judge would say --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We would have a new trial;
is that it?
MS. NEWMAN: No. I don't -- I think it would
be perfectly acceptable to say a new trial is not -- not
an appropriate remedy in this case, because he had a
trial.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. So, if the judge
turns it down, then the prior trial is valid; is that
right?
MS. NEWMAN: It would depend on the reasons
why the judge would turn it down.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He turned it down because --
MS. NEWMAN: It would have to be a legitimate
reason under a State law; otherwise, there would --
JUSTICE SCALIA. Yes. Yes, then the prior
trial is okay?
MS. NEWMAN: It's not that it's okay, but I
think under imperfect circumstances, it's the result
that we're seeking.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why? Why? I mean,
why wouldn't the remedy be, as -- judging what you said
before, is an order saying to the prosecution
re-institute the plea bargain and give him whatever, a
week or whatever it is? Now, we imagine the defendant
says I accept. So, then they go to the judge, just as
they would have before.
MS. NEWMAN: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the judge has the
freedom to accept that or to reject it.
MS. NEWMAN: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: If he rejects it, there is
no plea agreement. Now the defendant must plead. He
can plead guilty or not guilty. And whatever flows from
that, flows from it.
MS. NEWMAN: That's a -- also a perfectly
acceptable remedy. I think the purpose -- the reason --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait. Both can't be
perfect. Either he has another trial, although he's
just been found guilty by a jury of 12 with an entirely
fair proceeding, or else he doesn't have a new trial.
Which is it?
JUSTICE BREYER: He does. He does. His
suggestion is perfect, but mine is more perfect.
(Laughter.)
MS. NEWMAN: Okay. The --
JUSTICE BREYER: You could do it. You don't
have to -- you would -- he's right, you would have to,
under my suggestion, have a new trial, even though there
was a trial that took place 2 years ago or whatever it
is, correct?
MS. NEWMAN: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: But that isn't the end of
the argument.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, if you're the
defense counsel, the best thing for you to do is not
communicate any plea offer you get, and then if your
client is found guilty, then you can go back and say,
oh, by the way, I didn't tell you about this, and he
gets a whole new trial.
MS. NEWMAN: No. The -- the bar on habeas --
well, the bar on Strickland, even not on habeas, is a
very high bar, as this Court said in Padilla. And it's
not a bar that can often be met. And so, you have to
show under a Strickland analysis deficient performance
and prejudice. So --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I don't know if that's
going to be so --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A deficient
performance --
JUSTICE ALITO: I don't know that that's
going to be so hard to show. Do you think it's feasible
to draw a distinction between this case, where there was
arguably inaccurate legal advice, and the case in which
the defense attorney simply makes a terribly mistaken
calculation about the chances of a favorable verdict at
trial? A favorable plea bargain is offered, caps the
guy's possible sentence at, let's say, 3 years. The
defense attorney says: We've got a great shot at an
acquittal. Let's go to trial. I'm going to rip the
prosecution's witnesses apart.
The trial turns out to be a disaster.
Convicted on all counts, 25 years. Do you think that
it's impossible for the rule that you want us to adopt
here to be applied in that situation as well?
MS. NEWMAN: I think it would be much more
difficult, because this Court on habeas review and State
courts on non-habeas review are very deferential to
strategic decisions. Almost anything that qualifies --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you say that. But,
as an administrative matter, I think we have to have
some concern that these plea negotiations and
discussions are in myriad circumstances. The defense
attorney is by the water cooler; the prosecutor walks by
and says I'm thinking of offering you a good bargain in
the Jones case. He knows he's going to have that
prosecutor in court the next day and really beat him.
He thinks he's going to soften him up. So, he doesn't
communicate it to the client, and the prosecutor later
says withdrawn.
We're going to have inquiries post hoc on
all of these negotiations and discussions. And it seems
to me that, absent some other rule, which I don't think
we have the authority to impose, that all plea offers
must be in writing and be stated with specificity, that
if -- what you're proposing is simply unworkable.
MS. NEWMAN: I disagree, Your Honor. We've
had Hill -- we've had Strickland and Hill jurisprudence
for three decades. There's -- there was a floodgates
argument when Hill was decided, that we're going to have
all these people that the -- and we've had, since
McMann v. Richardson, this Court saying plea bargaining
is a critical stage, and --
JUSTICE KAGAN: And most of the circuits
follow your rule; isn't that right?
MS. NEWMAN: Right. We already have
unanimity --
JUSTICE KAGAN: And the floodgates have not
opened.
MS. NEWMAN: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Go ahead.
MS. NEWMAN: Yes, we have unanimity in the
Federal circuits, and we have -- almost every State that
has addressed this issue has addressed it in the same
manner. And so --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What is the unanimity on
the remedy? Here, the court said that the writ shall be
granted conditioned on the State taking action to offer
the 51-to-85-month plea. So, that doesn't bind the
judge, but it does bind the prosecutor.
MS. NEWMAN: Correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it removes the
possibility of the prosecutor saying, I would have
withdrawn that initial offer.
MS. NEWMAN: Correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, the prosecutor -- the
remedy is -- is that the remedy that's uniform? That
the prosecutor has no discretion, only the judge does?
MS. NEWMAN: Well, the remedies vary. When I
said "unanimity," I didn't mean every -- every court in
every circuit does -- handles this exactly the same way.
Unanimity in the sense that every Federal circuit and
almost every State that has addressed this issue, and
they've addressed this issue for over 30 years, has
found that there is an -- there is a cognizable Sixth
Amendment violation that can be remedied on appeal.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And perhaps the lack of
unanimity on the remedy question is appropriate. I
mean, people have been trying to suggest different
remedies. But perhaps one way to deal with the remedy
question is to recognize that these cases present very
different factual circumstances, that there are a lot of
variation in them, and to give a substantial amount of
discretion to the lower courts to work out what the best
remedy is, consistent with that factual variation.
MS. NEWMAN: Absolutely. And it's the same
thing the courts have been doing, again, since
Strickland and Hill were decided.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Like what? What factual
variation do you think justifies a categorically
different remedy? I mean, it seems to me some of the
remedies are good and some are bad.
MS. NEWMAN: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What factual -- I mean, give
me an example of the different remedies and how a
certain fact situation could make one okay and the other
not okay.
MS. NEWMAN: Well, even in the two cases
before the Court today -- I mean, in Mr. Frye's, case he
accepted a plea, and the State court ordered a new trial
as the remedy for the -- for the ineffective assistance
of counsel violation. In my case and Mr. Cooper's
case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. And why was that
okay there?
MS. NEWMAN: -- rejected -- pardon?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why was that okay there?
What -- what factual circumstances made that okay there?
MS. NEWMAN: Well, that just -- I don't know
that the factual circumstances make it okay, but it was
the remedy that the State -- I'm not sure I understand
your question. It was a remedy that the State ordered,
and, in this case, it's just the remedy that was ordered
by the Federal court was the remedy --
JUSTICE ALITO: You have a situation where
the -- where the defendant turns down -- where a plea is
turned down and the defendant goes to trial. Are there
any facts in -- any facts that would make any remedy
other than specific performance the correct remedy in
that situation?
MS. NEWMAN: These cases are so
fact-specific, Your Honor, I don't want to evade the
question about a hypothetical, but there's -- every case
is so fact-specific that I think there's -- the
possibility exists that a -- that the remedy would --
JUSTICE ALITO: You recommend -- you
recommend specific performance as the remedy for your
case, and I agree with you that is -- if there is to be
a remedy, it's the only remedy that makes a -- any
modicum of sense. The remedy of giving a new trial when
the person has already had a fair trial makes zero
sense.
MS. NEWMAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: So, what I'm looking for is
any situation in which -- you said leave it to the
discretion of the trial judge. But what is -- what
discretion is there? What remedy in that situation
other than specific performance would be an
appropriate -- would remedy what you claim to have been
the violation?
MS. NEWMAN: Well, in Mr. Cooper's case, I
think the -- the remedy in the Sixth Circuit is the only
appropriate remedy that -- that puts every -- that is
narrowly tailored to the Sixth Amendment violation, and
that's what this Court has said.
I mean, this Court has given direction to
the courts, to the lower courts, that you just narrowly
tailor the remedy to fit the situation, because there's
so many factual discrepancies --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what's wrong -- let me
go back because I'm now becoming convinced -- I'm trying
out what Justice Scalia suggested. Maybe that does work
better. What -- what you'd say is, first, throw the
defendant out, unless you are convinced that not only is
there ineffective assistance, but also it would have
made a difference; he would have accepted the plea
bargain.
MS. NEWMAN: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, now they have to hold
the plea bargain open. They then do it. They then go
to the judge, like any plea bargain. Ninety percent of
the time the judge will say fine, and that's the end of
it.
MS. NEWMAN: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: But should the judge decide
that this is a case where he would reject a plea bargain
for any one of a variety of reasons, then our assumption
was wrong, and we reinstate the previous trial. Now,
the -- just say it's over? You were tried, you were
convicted, that's the end of it.
Now, what's wrong with that as a remedy? I
mean, what's -- why is that -- why does that muck up the
criminal justice system in some way?
That's, I think, pretty much what
Justice Scalia suggested, and I -- and I am now trying
that out, because the more I think about it, the more I
think maybe that's okay.
MS. NEWMAN: Well, I -- I believe it is what
he suggested. And I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't -- don't blame it on
me. I don't --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- it's your
suggestion that we set aside a perfectly fair
conviction.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: This is just a hypothetical.
If you're going to set it aside --
MS. NEWMAN: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- I think you should put it
back in.
MS. NEWMAN: Well, again, right. It's going
to depend on what happens -- happens below, and that --
we don't -- I mean, the -- the concept here is one --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're -- you are begging
the question.
MS. NEWMAN: Okay.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Okay? Because I think,
yes, Justice Breyer's first statement, you have to prove
the guy was going to take the plea, because there's no
sense in -- in giving him a remedy that he --
MS. NEWMAN: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- would have never
sought.
MS. NEWMAN: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right? But it goes
back to, I think it was Justice Alito or Chief -- or the
Chief Justice's question, on what basis can the judge
reject the plea? You have said earlier that he has to
put aside any information he learned during the trial.
And that's really the nub of this case. What are the
grounds that you're proposing the judge can use to
reject the plea?
MS. NEWMAN: That -- any grounds that would
have existed in the original circumstances. So, if the
judge -- in -- in Michigan, there's a variety of reasons
why a judge can say I -- I'm not going to accept this
sentencing recommendation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, how are you ever
going to know that the defendant would have accepted the
plea agreement? Because by not accepting it, he's got a
chance of going scot-free. He's going to have a fair
trial, that's the assumption; and he may be acquitted.
So, how is a judge supposed to say -- I
mean, presumably the defendant will always say, I would
have taken that deal, because it's better. Well, how is
a judge supposed to go back and decide whether that's
true or not?
MS. NEWMAN: Well, always -- in large part,
it's not going to depend on the defendant; it's going to
-- in larger part it's going to defend on -- depend on
defense counsel --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why?
MS. NEWMAN: -- in making that determination,
because Strickland always looks at strategy. I mean,
that -- that's the underlying --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think you can --
MS. NEWMAN: -- value of Strickland.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- answer the Chief
Justice's question. The Chief Justice said how are you
going to know -- you have to show prejudice.
MS. NEWMAN: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And there's no prejudice
unless he would have accepted the deal.
MS. NEWMAN: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: How are you going to know
that he would have? Of course, he's always going to say
he that would have, but how is the trial judge going to
make a credibility determination on that -- on that
issue? I guess it's just a credibility determination.
I don't know how he's going to do it. I think you can
answer the Chief Justice's question yes or no.
MS. NEWMAN: I don't think I can --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is the judge --
MS. NEWMAN: -- answer it yes or no.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is the judge --
how is the judge ever going to know, be able to decide,
whether the defendant would have accepted the deal or
not?
MS. NEWMAN: The same way that the trial
courts decide any question of fact. In this case, we
had testimony from the trial attorney. The trial
attorney told the judge, I told him not to accept the
plea because he legally could not be convicted of the
charge. I mean, Mr. Cooper was --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's the defendant's
choice; it's not the lawyer's choice. It's the
defendant's choice.
MS. NEWMAN: But he -- but he has a right to
the assistance -- to the effective assistance of counsel
in making that critical choice, and he didn't have the
effective assistance of counsel. He wrote -- Mr. Cooper
wrote letters to the judge --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's the
ineffectiveness question. I understand that to be taken
out of the case by the concessions on the other side.
I'm talking about the prejudice question.
MS. NEWMAN: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is a judge
supposed to know?
MS. NEWMAN: The judge looks at the record
before him. So, in this case, we had Mr. Cooper's
testimony --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: People have
different -- some people are willing to take the chance.
Okay? Let's assume there's a 20 percent chance the
person will be found guilty.
Some people will say, I'm willing to take
that chance because I just don't want the chance of
going to jail; I'm willing to roll the dice. Other
people will say, no, that's too much.
Now, whether you want to go to jail may cut
one way or the other, but how is a judge supposed to
decide? Ask him, are you -- do you take chances?
MS. NEWMAN: No, by -- by looking at --
Mr. Chief Justice, by looking at the evidence in the
record before him. In this case, Mr. Cooper wrote --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, the judge should
decide whether he would take the deal.
MS. NEWMAN: No --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Look at the evidence
before him and say, boy, I'd take that deal.
(Laughter.)
MS. NEWMAN: No, no, no, no. Mr. -- Mr.
Cooper wrote two letters to the judge saying, I want to
accept a plea. Mr. McClain, the trial attorney who
provided the incompetent advice, told the judge in a
postconviction hearing that Mr. Cooper wanted to take a
plea. I mean, there -- there is no -- it is beyond
question in this case.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think the length and
the complexity of the trial has any bearing on this?
This was a relatively short and simple trial. But let's
say a prosecutor offers a plea deal in a case in which
the trial is going to take 6 months and it's going to
cost -- and it's going to cost a million dollars, and if
they try that case, there are going to be other cases
that they won't be able to try. The plea is rejected,
the case is tried, and then afterwards the -- the remedy
is to -- to -- to reinstate this plea offer, which was
predicated on the relieving the prosecutor of the burden
of having to try that case.
MS. NEWMAN: Well, every plea bargain is
predicated on relieving the prosecution of having the
burden of -- of trying a case. I mean, the key here
is -- let's get back to what Strickland stands for, and
it's the unreliability or the unfairness of the
proceedings. It's not just an unreliability
determination.
So, in this case, Mr. Cooper had two
choices. He could take a certain plea with almost a
certain sentence or he could have really what was a
charade of a trial because his attorney told him you --
you can't be convicted of this offense; you will not be
convicted of this offense following a trial. You'll be
convicted of a lesser --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You conceded -- you
conceded he had a fair trial.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not in the case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.
MS. NEWMAN: I didn't --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It can't be a charade and
still be fair.
MS. NEWMAN: It's an unfairness of the entire
proceedings that were presented. All right? So,
there's no separate habeas claim with respect to the
trial, but the -- but reality is when you look at the
criminal -- when you look at the Sixth Amendment, it
talks about the criminal proceedings.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're saying it was unfair
to have a fair trial?
MS. NEWMAN: I'm saying it's unfair to go to
trial when your attorney tells you, you can't be
convicted.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're saying it's unfair
to have a fair trial; isn't that correct?
MS. NEWMAN: I'm --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That has to be your
position.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, it is.
MS. NEWMAN: I'm saying it's unfair to say
that the trial erases the unfairness when there was no
possibility but for a conviction at the end of the road.
So, this was a certain guilty plea or this was a long
guilty plea under the math of a trial.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you can never say
that there's no possibility of acquittal. Juries can
decide not to convict no matter what the evidence.
MS. NEWMAN: There was no defense. I mean,
there was no possibility --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's up to the
jury. It's not up to us ex ante to decide this guy is
definitely going to lose; so, let's not waste our time.
Juries -- I don't want to say often, but it's not --
it's certainly not inconceivable that a jury may decide
for whatever reason we are not going to convict this
guy. Right?
MS. NEWMAN: That's true, but in this case,
Mr. McClain told Mr. Cooper he would be convicted. I
mean, he assured him of conviction. He said: You will
be convicted at the end of the trial; you're just going
to be convicted of a lesser offense. The guidelines --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, what was the
defense at trial?
MS. NEWMAN: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What was the defense at
trial?
MS. NEWMAN: There wasn't -- there was no
defense presented. There was no real defense presented
at trial because --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Did he deny having
committed the act of the shooting?
MS. NEWMAN: Never.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: At trial?
MS. NEWMAN: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is it the case that, in
most of the cases in which motions of this kind are
brought to trial, judges -- if there is a defense of
mistaken identity or of "I didn't do it," that judges
often find the defendant has not proven that they would
have taken the plea?
MS. NEWMAN: Sorry. I didn't hear the rest.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In most cases in which a
trial is had, where the defendant is pleading
misidentification or "I just didn't do this act," in
those cases, do most of the trial judges not permit or
don't find that the defendant has met their burden of
proving that he or she would have taken the plea?
MS. NEWMAN: I don't know that the cases bear
out that if you have a valid defense, it would be
harder. But I -- I would agree with that -- if that's a
hypothetical, that if you have a valid defense, it would
be a lot harder to be in this position of showing that
you would have taken the plea.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought in this case,
and you can correct me if I am wrong, that your client
told the attorney from the beginning: I did it; I want
to plea.
MS. NEWMAN: That's correct. There was never
-- there was no question in this case at any step, at
any stage of the proceedings, and there was no -- never,
never anything from the trial attorney other than
incompetent advice. He never --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did you -- I mean --
MS. NEWMAN -- went to trial for an acquittal.
He went to trial because he believed legally his client
would be convicted of a lesser offense that would put
him in a better position than if he had accepted the
plea. That was the only reason.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You said there's -- I
want to make sure I understand your point. You said
there was no defense. Does that mean you didn't -- he
had a frivolous defense or that he literally didn't put
on a defense; just said, look, the State has to prove
the case and they haven't done it.
MS. NEWMAN: Well, he held the State to its
burden, and that is a defense. I mean, I...
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did he -- did he --
MS. NEWMAN: I'm not saying literally no --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh.
MS. NEWMAN: I'm not saying literally no
defense, and I apologize if that's the way it came
across, but no cognizable defense. It wasn't mistaken
identification or we didn't intend to hit her. I mean,
never contested the basic facts of that case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's something the
jury could have accepted, right? Even if it's not
legally true that if you shoot him -- at the -- the
person below the waist, that's not a defense, but I can
see a reasonable juror saying he probably didn't intend
to kill her. He shot her, you know, below the waist.
Maybe that is not such a bad strategy.
MS. NEWMAN: Except the defense counsel on
this record specifically said that he -- that he was not
running a strategy and hoping for that, that he told the
client legally that's the only thing that could happen
to him, so he was in a better position by going to
trial.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Bursch, 4 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. BURSCH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BURSCH: Thank you. I'd like to start at
the one point where I think all of us, including counsel
on both sides, agree, and that's that a second trial
after an error-free first trial doesn't make sense. And
that right there says a lot about Mr. Cooper's case,
because a Strickland remedy is typically a new trial.
And it's exceedingly strange that they're now saying
that I don't want a new trial. That demonstrates that
what they are claiming is not a Strickland violation.
I would like to address, Justice Breyer,
your suggestion that maybe you could have specific
performance of the plea; and if it's rejected, then the
trial result could simply be re-imposed. And the
question is: Well, what's the problem with that? And I
can tick off at least five.
First, as Justice Ginsburg pointed out, it
takes away the prosecutor's ability to withdraw the
plea, which he or she undeniably would have had the
right.
Second, as Justice Alito said, it ignores
that there's information that could be learned in the
interim. Mr. Cooper shot three or four other people.
Third, it ignores the fact that an
error-free trial has taken place. The prosecutor has
taken the risk of putting that 8-year-old sexual abuse
victim on the stand, and you cannot take that risk away.
Fourth, as I already mentioned, we've got
the separation of powers issue and prosecutorial
discretion.
Fifth, we're going to have intractable
problems. Say the offer was plead to A, we'll dismiss
B. He rejects it based on deficient advice. You go to
trial. He is convicted on A and acquitted on B. And
now we're going to try to enforce the plea on A? I
mean, that's almost a double jeopardy problem. So,
there's intractable problems.
The second point I want to make is about the
death situation. And that's one we take very seriously.
And, Justice Alito, it may be that in a death penalty
situation, there could be a due process right or some
other constitutional right that may mitigate in favor of
requiring something to be put on the record. But what's
clear is that, under this Court's existing precedent,
that is not a Strickland violation because the amount of
the sentence, whether it's death or 50 years, has
nothing to do with the reliability of the adjudicatory
proceeding and the sentence.
Finally, the last point that I want to make
is something else on which we can all agree. Mr. Cooper
is guilty of shooting Kali Mundy. He also got exactly
the sentence that the people prescribed for the crime
that committed. There is very little unfair about
holding him to that sentence. As Justice Kennedy said,
it's the position of Mr. Cooper that it is unfair to
have a fair trial. And from our perspective, that is
really the beginning and the end of this inquiry.
And unless you have any further questions --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I have one, but it's more
appropriate, I think, for the Government of the United
States. Under the Federal rules, Rule 11, there has to
be a colloquy before a plea is entered. Do you think
the Federal rules and perhaps State rules should be
amended so that judges, trial judges, before imposing a
sentence inquire: Have there been plea offers; have
they all been communicated to the defendant?
Is that good practice?
MR. BURSCH: It could be good practice, but
it wouldn't have solved the problem here, because even
if they had put the fact of the plea on the record, the
problem was the alleged deficient advice that the lawyer
gave to the client in private. And so, that doesn't
solve the core problem. The core problem is that
they're trying to claim that it was unfair to have a
fair trial.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if they had -- if
plea offer had come out -- well, I don't know how it
would work. When you enter a not guilty plea, you enter
a not guilty plea.
MR. BURSCH: Right. You know, the judge,
under your theory then, would have had to inquire:
Well, what advice did your attorney give you with
respect to that? And then evaluate whether that advice
was good advice or bad advice. And I would respectfully
submit that that would not be a good policy to adopt by
rule.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Counsel.
MR. BURSCH: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
62:9 address 20:3 29:14 31:4,9 appointed 1:22 assuming 12:20
addressed 42:7 44:18 45:4,12 appropriate assumption
43:14 adjudicated 59:12 60:6 43:6 45:17,21 assured 55:9
3:14 Alito's 33:4 61:1 attach 3:23
15:15 allowed 36:9 approved 17:10 attorney 5:3 9:7
4:5 5:24 7:20 33:16 arguably 40:7 12:24 14:8
33:1,8 administrative amendment 4:6 argument 1:12 41:2 50:15,16
36:22 40:24 4:24 5:22 8:16 2:2,5,9,12 3:3 52:9 53:11
48:20 adopt 40:17 9:10 10:12 3:6 6:19 7:8,10 54:7 56:21
52:9 62:1 14:19 15:14,23 9:8 16:2 18:11 57:1 61:23
38:20 adopting 32:22 20:1 22:18 39:12 41:18 avoid 6:5 18:4
33:7 44:3 11:25 13:3,11 35:11,14 43:4 aside 21:1 33:25 a.m 1:13 3:2
48:23 13:12 15:3 45:22 54:2 47:12,16 48:13 62:8
50:11 21:6,12 25:20 amicus 1:19 2:8 asked 7:1 21:1
26:14 18:12 asking 27:15,17 B
58:1
40:7 52:10 31:2,3 43:11 asks 16:23 back 4:2 6:2
61:25 29:20 35:4,9 assertion 4:22 32:24,25 37:1
advocate 16:23 answer 8:18,18 3:18,23 4:9 6:9 48:10 49:5
34:19 35:1,16 19:25 23:1 8:19,21,22 bad 10:3,4 21:6
ago 25:1 39:8 50:5,8 12:13 15:6,8 43:20 58:6
40:13 10:21 33:18 Anthony 1:6 19:7 20:7,11 balance 18:8
57:4 34:5 37:1 45:6 28:17 22:22 28:23 bandied 16:12
60:16 apologize 57:21 35:9,18 44:4 bar 39:19,20,21
22:2,15 49:4 57:7 23:23 25:8,12 21:25 24:3,19 57:3,9,17,19
31:10,20 58:11 26:6 58:15,16 24:22 25:3 57:25 58:14
32:5,10 beyond 13:24 58:18 61:9,21 27:3,5 43:9 62:3,6
35:24 23:20 52:12 62:5 44:1,24 52:20 choice 50:20,20
37:5 38:7 bigger 17:25 56:1,7,10,13 50:21,24
41:3 33:11 C casts 6:23 15:14 choices 35:8,13
bind 42:12,13 C 2:1 3:1 categorically 53:9
BLAINE 1:3 calculation 40:9 43:18 choose 5:7
boy 52:5 15:25 20:3 causing 13:11 32:23 33:17,25
break 9:7 22:1,4,5,8,10 certain 9:5 circuits 41:22
25:6,24 Breyer 19:1,8 23:2 30:25 31:1,3 42:6
41:20 20:5,12,25 caps 40:10 43:24 53:9,10 circumstance
20:15 34:18 38:4,12 19:10,11,23,25 55:4 44:11,13 48:18
38:15 39:1,5 20:14,16,19,23 cetera 20:1 claim 3:18 4:9
56:13 Breyer's 48:2 27:20 29:19 51:13,14,17,17 claiming 59:1
60:23 brought 56:2 37:14 40:6,7 charade 53:11 client 11:13
3:7 52:24 53:3 44:16 45:1,6 charge 12:14 29:17 39:16
28:14 56:11 57:16 45:19 46:19 34:11 50:18 41:7 56:20
burdens 24:20 48:14 50:14 charged 31:25 57:5 58:10
25:2 8:7 9:2 10:6,16 57:24 58:22 35:21 36:1,6,9 Coleman 14:22
39:14 12:2,8,11,17 cases 5:4 8:2,2 40:2 48:10,11 18:18
12:20 13:6,13 8:24 9:19 48:22 49:11,17 Collins 6:4,6
23:12 14:20,25 15:9 15:22 16:1,17 50:19 51:2,7 come 20:3 22:4
34:8,18 15:12,19,21 18:22 19:13,14 51:12,24 52:1 23:5 29:15,15
46:6 16:5,10 17:13 19:16 20:5 52:4 54:20,25 61:18
31:7 contend 17:13 39:9,10 42:14 42:23 44:2,3 dandy 14:19
60:19 contention 42:18 43:21 44:17 45:23,24 day 8:4 27:12
39:15 contest 25:5 46:11,17 49:20 33:14 34:20 days 8:11
contested 57:24 51:6 54:10 35:5,7,17 dead 19:24
contrary 34:1 corresponds 45:25,25 50:14 34:8 35:20
convict 54:22 counsel 4:16 5:3 20:5,7 21:1 52:17
convicted 9:9 9:23 10:1,5 60:10 6:1,5 21:2,2,4
8:21 40:16 46:23 13:16,18 14:13 crazy 24:7 60:5,6,12
50:17 53:12,13 14:17 15:6,8 creates 4:14 decades 41:17
21:22 24:23 35:9 39:14 crimes 31:21 54:22 55:1,4
20:8 54:17 55:9 58:7,14,19 17:22 19:4 41:18 43:16
18:16,18,24 counts 28:7 47:1 54:2,3 13:17 26:25
46:7 course 49:25 15:13 25:6,17 5:1 6:3
Cooper 1:6 3:4 court 1:1,12,22 26:18,20 27:4 30:6,6,9
35:8,12 50:18 8:15 9:5,15 Cronic 7:15 decree 22:23
52:8,11 53:8 11:21 12:24 crucial 26:25 13:10,11
60:16,21 18:15,23 21:20 22:19 defendant 3:14
24:19 24:12 25:2,12 18:12 6:8 7:22 9:9
44:5 45:19 28:16 30:4 25:16 14:16 16:19
5:5,13 core 61:14,14 32:9,20,23 20:16 21:5,14
8:9 11:2 correct 6:18 34:1,10 35:7 D 21:15,21 22:3
14:8 12:19,20 16:5 35:10,12,15,18 D 3:1 23:10,12 25:16
60:8 23:23 27:6,9 35:20,22,22 damage 15:20 25:18 27:8
38:8,16 47:21 49:8,9 32:21 33:2 enormous 22:23 exceedingly
46:7 depending 10:8 35:23 36:6,7 ensue 21:19 58:24
49:3,8 26:10 42:21 43:12 ensuring 3:13 execute 34:16
56:4,8 depends 26:19 45:14,15 59:21 enter 6:12 13:3 executed 19:20
61:7 deprivation 4:9 discretionary 26:14 61:19,19 existed 48:18
24:19 26:2 discussing 20:15 61:3 exists 45:3
39:14 desire 24:19 disposed 10:23 entitled 9:13 27:5
41:1
54:23 determination distinction 40:6 23:10 29:18 extent 17:5
12:1 49:12 district 35:22 entitles 24:10,11 extra 28:21
53:7 doing 21:17 entitling 25:6 extraordinary
determine 4:3 43:15 entry 13:17 32:11
58:3
23:21 double 60:2 erases 54:16 F
35:2 dice 51:18 doubt 6:23 7:24 11:23 16:8
difference 8:12 draw 40:6 58:21 59:16 43:24 50:14
61:11
13:15,20 due 60:7 2:3,6,10,13 factfinder 7:23
13:21,22 46:9 D.C 1:8,18 essentially 16:19 facts 5:10 20:20
9:4 10:10 7:18 11:6 E establishes 11:6 factual 43:10,13
12:24 12:22 13:8 E 2:1 3:1,1 et 20:1 43:17,22 44:11
30:22,23 15:10 21:19,24 earlier 35:22 evade 44:25 44:13 46:2
39:23 21:25 23:15 48:12 evaluate 29:19 fact-specific
59:24 24:9,14 29:8 early 31:11 30:16,23 61:24 44:25 45:2
43:7,10,19,23 easier 9:17 evaluated 30:17 failed 9:14
direction 45:24 15:13 25:7,22 exactly 8:10 54:5,10 60:22
32:6 41:15 50:23,25 29:10 42:24 fairness 4:5
discovered 31:6 eggs 16:3 example 5:1 fashioning
discretion 8:14 enforce 60:1 21:5 24:2 27:1 favorable 40:9
61:2,4 60:24 50:10 51:18 29:10 31:23
G 55:2,5,10 happens 26:11 identification
33:9,22 General 1:15,18 41:3 43:20 happy 22:10 identity 56:3
generis 16:1 61:8,9,25 62:1 hard 40:5 ignore 30:20
35:1 6:19 8:20 13:2 21:17 28:24 harm 7:1,14 Illinois 27:1
16:12 53:15,18,21 grounds 35:6,14 heard 20:16,17 impact 11:20
17:16 59:8 48:15,17 20:17 30:14 12:25
36:15 give 9:7 13:7,25 guess 8:17 9:24 hearing 11:23 imperfect 29:20
48:2 14:10 17:20 50:3 12:22,23 27:7 29:21,22,23
59:8 23:22 34:4,20 guidelines 32:17 52:11 38:2
given 17:23 15:15 36:11 held 4:11 6:7 impose 41:12
39:16 38:9 39:16 38:17,17,23 hit 11:14 34:12 inaccurate 40:7
51:15 40:13 42:4 39:16 51:15 34:14 57:23 inadequate
48:9 guy's 40:11 44:25 58:13 28:18,20 52:10
14:25 23:5 11:12 17:1 H 58:9 inconceivable
issue 16:8 19:11 jurisprudence 43:5,17,22 key 53:3
6:8,15,17 50:3 59:20 juror 58:4 45:4,12 46:3,5 Kimmelman
8:5,20,22 issuing 16:17 jury 5:2,2 13:23 46:12,18 47:1 3:22 4:2 9:19
10:5 14:9 23:19 47:3,8,11,14 14:22
18:19,20 J 27:24 38:23 47:15,18,23 kind 4:20 11:16
28:23 J 1:15 2:3,13 3:6 55:1,4 58:1 48:1,2,6,9,10 56:1
33:13,15 58:16 justice 1:18 3:3 48:22 49:11,15 knew 17:24
35:9,18 jail 8:4 19:22 3:8,19 4:1,16 49:17,18,21,24 know 8:8,23,25
46:8 51:18,20 4:21 5:9,19 50:7,9,19 51:2 10:2,2 11:22
51:3 18:10,11,14 7:10,16 8:1,17 52:1,4,14 33:18 34:16
31:1,2,3 21:3,11,21 10:13,21 11:9 53:21 54:4,9 44:12 48:23
59:13 22:5,10,25 11:16,24 12:5 54:12,14,20,25 49:19,24 50:4
27:2,6,14,17 14:5,7,11,23 57:3,9,17,19 61:18,21
15:20 job 10:3,4 21:14 17:3 18:9,14 60:20,25 61:17 knows 9:5 17:5
30:25 31:18,19 26:7,9,17 27:1 6:25 7:10,16 19:12 25:17
33:7,8 35:22 28:10,11,12,15 26:8,9,17 27:1 larger 49:9
37:1,2,3,3,9,16 29:11,14,24 42:1,4 43:5 39:3 47:10
42:13,21 45:14 31:4,9,18 32:3 keep 4:19 law 11:12 28:5
48:11,15,19,20 33:10 34:3,3 11:24 12:5,9 lawyer 21:8,13
50:10,16 51:1 36:1,6,9,16,20 15:16,20 27:9 23:13,14 24:2
60:3 52:8,10 61:21 37:21,24 38:4 29:24 30:8,12 25:20 26:2,19
61:5,5 39:1,5,11,13 49:15,17,24 lawyer's 50:20
30:3,20 52:4 54:1,2 means 18:22 N 52:7 53:1,20
48:13 57:13 21:16 N 2:1,1 3:1 53:23 54:6,11
looked 33:12 meet 7:5 narrow 23:8 54:15,23 55:7
24:6 lose 55:2 mere 3:15,20 nature 12:14 58:7
16:8 lot 43:10 56:17 metaphor 30:2 negotiate 34:17 Ninety 46:14
40:7 58:22 Michigan 1:16 negotiations noncapital 22:2
57:5 low 34:13 36:5 37:8 40:25 41:10 40:21
lower 4:2 34:6 48:19 never 14:12 normal 17:9
54:20
53:14 18:11 minimum 24:25 57:1,2,24 numerous 30:5
57:6 making 20:14 minute 5:25 new 16:13 20:9
36:22
24:7 31:24 22:19 39:7,18 44:3 objection 6:4
31:19 mandatory misgauged 45:8 58:23,25 23:6,7
51:14 22:14 11:11 Newman 1:21 obtain 24:18
53:4 manner 42:8 misidentificati... 2:10 28:12,13 obvious 4:4
math 54:19 56:9 28:15 29:5,13 22:21
10:4 15:24 52:18 37:12,19,22 57:6
24:2 31:4 4:8 39:4,10,19 19:18,21 20:16
15:1 44:2 45:24 muck 46:25 44:1,9,12,24 37:3 39:15
46:25 47:22 Mundy 17:18 45:11,19 46:11 42:11,17 52:23
20:5,6 54:23 55:9 21:22 33:19 48:8,17 49:7 31:10 40:10
21:3 57:3,11,16,23 murders 31:7,7 49:12,16,20,23 offering 41:3
24:25 60:2 myriad 41:1 50:6,8,13,22 offers 15:8
33:16 meaning 33:14 51:6,9,23 52:3 41:12 52:17
13:7 39:21 27:21 58:17 please 3:9 18:15 21:16
57:19 parameters 18:16 pled 19:22 11:22 12:22
24:15 pardon 44:9 25:24 26:10,10 point 4:7 12:10 prescribed
34:14,15 part 7:1 10:14 26:11,18,20 14:6 16:4 60:18
22:2 25:9 49:7 27:4 17:15 30:23,24 present 43:9
39:4 49:9 picked 17:22 31:11 57:10 presented 53:24
44:8 particular 6:2 place 17:2 36:15 58:19 60:4,15 55:18,18
24:12 26:7 39:8 59:16 pointed 59:8 press 3:11 4:7
48:1 parties 16:7 plea 3:11 4:11 points 3:10 9:8
penalty 5:20 6:1 4:14,18,22 5:6 22:25 presumably
17:2 28:9 people 13:24 11:4 12:21 position 14:20 presumes 30:5
60:18 21:6,9 22:2,15 60:21 20:22,24 22:9
10:24 19:15 25:24 26:1,14 32:1,15,19 prison 7:2,3,17
18:11 31:17 38:22 32:10,10 33:1 possible 4:13 probability
39:2,2 33:8 35:24 40:11 21:18 23:14
20:6,9,9 38:19 47:12 39:15 40:10,25 postconviction probably 58:4
33:5 performance 41:12,20 42:12 52:11 problem 16:24
9:4 16:24 44:3,19 46:9 powers 17:14 19:16 33:3,4
30:25 39:23 48:3,12,16,24 practice 10:8 60:2 61:10,12
permits 34:3 56:18,22 57:8 predicated 5:5 12:4
9:20 person 7:2 8:3 59:4,10 60:1 52:24 53:2 proceed 13:16
23:8 14:17 24:10,12 61:3,6,11,18 predilection 9:6 13:18 37:8
45:9 51:15 61:19,20 prejudice 3:15 proceeding 4:5
38:16,17 59:23 49:19,21 51:5 proceedings
56:25 punishment 41:5 48:14 releasing 16:19 34:21
9:21,21 purpose 38:20 reason 7:9,12 reliability 3:13 36:11 53:25
11:10 purposes 6:19 29:9 37:23 3:21 6:23 7:20 61:24
17:9 26:3 put 16:7 18:3 38:20 55:5 9:21 11:10 respectfully
60:7 30:7 32:25 57:8 15:1,15 60:13 12:21 61:25
20:8 61:11 21:18 23:13,20 24:23,23 Respondent
23:9 puts 45:21 29:7,9 33:6 relief 13:5 29:11 1:23 2:11 7:8
reasons 34:4 53:2 Respondent's
19:9 REBUTTAL remedial 22:22 rests 24:17
40:22 receive 26:13 remedies 16:11 28:19 29:8
24:16,22 6:22 8:3 9:13 recognize 43:9 43:23 59:5
25:18 12:6,6 15:17 recognized remedy 4:13 resulted 23:3,4
38:6 53:2 35:1,3,17 43:6 25:23 5:14,17,25 results 26:21,22
45:1 47:24 24:6 45:4,5 20:6 29:21,21 retains 33:1
40:14 50:5,14 51:3,5 36:4 48:21 32:20,22,22 revealing 25:4
17:5,17 59:6 33:22 35:19 42:10,20,20 40:20,21
18:1 questions 18:7 51:9,25 58:8 43:6,8,13,19 reviewing 18:23
29:1 60:24 60:9 61:11 44:4,14,15,16 20:7
34:10 quite 8:7 red 27:24 44:17,21,22 re-imposed 59:5
42:13 refer 6:2 45:3,5,7,7,8,15 re-institute 38:7
R refused 14:16 45:17,20,21 Richardson
59:16 R 1:21 2:10 3:1 regain 6:9 46:1,24 48:4 41:20
raise 6:4 16:8 removes 42:15 4:10,11,15,17
24:13 range 31:22 37:2 46:21 represent 32:7 5:6,7 6:2,10
59:9 32:14 52:23 representation 8:9 9:14 10:19
48:2 read 33:22 34:5 reject 4:18 requirements 12:4,17 13:7
real 55:18 38:13 46:19 7:5 13:19 14:8,8
14:13 9:16 10:20 rejects 38:15 22:1 60:9 25:11,21,24
19:19 20:15 59:24 reserve 18:8 26:5,13,19,22
38:11 52:8 54:4,6,9 60:12,14,18,20 simple 8:8 52:16 Sounds 7:10
41:23,24 54:15 57:18,20 61:6 simply 9:14 spare 24:20
47:17,20 58:4,24 sentenced 3:15 19:17 25:2 sparse 16:21
49:23 says 8:15 9:18 28:5 40:8 41:14 speak 22:18
53:17,19 27:24 36:21 sentences 8:13 59:5 specific 16:23
55:6 37:4 38:9 sentencing 8:1,2 sitting 7:2,3,17 19:11 20:9
59:11 40:12 41:3,8 8:24 9:3,12 8:3 22:22 29:12,18
61:21 58:22 10:11 22:14 situation 4:25 44:22 45:5,16
10:13 13:20 28:6 31:22 26:7 40:18 specifically 7:14
36:20,25 37:10 separate 20:19 60:5,7 specificity 41:13
38:21 43:17,22 separation 5:22 8:16 9:10 stage 7:5 12:22
18:9 28:3 47:3,8,11,15 serious 32:17 15:14,22 19:2 26:2 27:11
35:21 47:18 49:21 seriously 60:5 19:3,6,9,15 41:21 56:25
54:14 serving 28:20 24:10,11 26:4 stand 18:4 59:18
40:2 score 32:17 set 14:9 21:1 26:18,21 32:23 standard 3:16
49:11 Scott 27:1 33:25 36:19 33:17,25 35:5 standards 10:8
51:2 scot-free 48:25 47:12,16 35:11,14 43:3 stands 21:13
52:1,4 screaming 17:19 severity 6:11 45:20,22 54:2 53:4
57:3 second 3:17 4:7 15:3 skipped 11:24 start 58:18
7:1 10:20 sexual 18:3 sleeping 21:8 State 14:12,15
62:3,6 16:14,23 58:20 59:17 slightly 15:9 25:15 31:13,15
40:17 58:4 shoot 17:18 58:2 solved 61:10 40:20 42:6,11
61:2 seeking 38:3 shooting 34:14 somebody 25:7 43:1 44:3,14
seen 19:10 26:17 55:21 60:17 26:2 44:15 57:13,15
sense 16:13 short 52:16 sooner 27:25 stated 30:4
sentence 6:5,11 shots 11:14 36:24 42:3 States 1:1,12,19
15:2 16:18 18:23 21:5,12 sort 35:3 step 11:25 56:24
21:15,18 24:4 Sotomayor 4:16 stop 3:19 20:13
22:23 28:2,4,6 32:14 side 5:8 51:4 55:15,20,23,25 49:13 58:6,9
38:6 36:2,3,4,12 sides 33:18,18 56:7,19 Strickland 3:15
42:16 40:11 53:10 58:20 sought 48:7 6:20 7:6,15
9:18 10:7 tailored 45:22 25:13 30:23 11:7,8,12,13 37:17 40:15
18:22 take 8:1 14:11 think 5:13 10:14 11:17,20,22 44:19
25:3 29:7 32:21 33:4 11:25 12:7,11 13:8,23 14:9 two 16:11 17:15
35:4 36:10,13,17 16:16 17:4 14:18 16:13,14 22:25 25:13
41:16 48:3 51:13,16 19:23 20:2,4 16:15,23 17:2 28:25 33:14
49:13,16 51:22 52:2,5 20:24 21:11,24 18:1 21:14,16 44:1 52:8 53:8
58:23 52:11,18 53:9 22:6 25:3,8 22:13 23:19 two-part 6:21
60:11 59:18 60:5 26:6,24 28:22 24:7,20 30:3 typically 32:16
59:17 45:2,20 47:2,4 38:22,24 39:7 42:5,9,23,25
talk 5:25 11:9 48:10 49:15 40:13,15 44:3 unconstitutio...
talking 8:11 58:19 61:1,3 45:14 46:21 uncontroverted
51:5 11:13 41:3 50:1,13,15,15 undeniably
12:3 team 9:6,9 third 4:13 16:4 53:11,13,16 underlying 5:4
39:17 thought 6:16,25 54:19 55:10,13 understand 8:18
44:14
39:2,7 terribly 17:7,11 7:18 41:17 58:20,21,23,25 unfair 17:5
59:3 40:8 59:14 59:5,16,25 23:18,22 54:4
18:13 29:7 time 18:8 24:14 52:22 unfairness
testimony 50:15 29:16 30:17 32:14 49:6 54:16
49:2,5 tests 11:6 55:2 truly 18:5 United 1:1,12,19
text 19:3 times 7:2,18 try 9:2 52:20,21 2:7 18:12 61:1
12:23 28:10,11,15 30:5 trying 14:6 5:23 53:5,6
57:10 theoretically 50:16 52:10 35:19 43:7 unscrambled
theory 61:22 56:21 58:9 61:15 unwind 30:1
56:21 57:10 24:20 40:14 20 51:14
28:13 wants 17:9 28:8 61:19 25 40:16
1:18 worse 23:3
57:22 writ 16:17 42:10 30 43:2
water 41:2 writing 41:13
40:9 39:17 42:24 51:1,25 52:8
47:1 5
51:21 X 5 31:7
x 1:2,7 50 19:22 22:15
51 28:24 29:3
we'll 3:3 59:23
6:13,14 22:17,20 25:1 58 2:14
10:12 20:15 25:21
27:14 32:9 39:8
40:11,16 43:2 6
31:17 30:1 38:3 41:9
59:22 60:12 6 52:18
44:5 68 28:25 29:3
59:1 60:1 Z
zero 45:9
59:19 1 8 16:18 25:1
2:6 18:11 10:03 1:13 3:2
22:8 withdrawing 135 31:22 32:14
27:10,18 29:2 14a 27:24
40:17 withdrawn 41:8 18 2:8
