IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
NATIONAL MEAT ASSOCIATION, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 10-224
KAMALA D. HARRIS, ATTORNEY GENERAL:
OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, November 9, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
STEVEN J. WELLS, ESQ., Minneapolis, Minnesota; on
behalf of Petitioner.
BENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Petitioner.
SUSAN K. SMITH, ESQ., Deputy Attorney General, Los
Angeles, California; on behalf of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
STEVEN J. WELLS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
BENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States,
as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner 18
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SUSAN K. SMITH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
STEVEN J. WELLS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-224, National Meat
Association v. Harris.
Mr. Wells.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN J. WELLS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. WELLS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Congress has unmistakably ordained that one
set of rules govern animal handling and treatment,
inspection, and determinations of meat quality for sale
at federally inspected slaughterhouses from California
to Maine, and those rules kick in at the slaughterhouse
gate, and they continue through the sale of the meat by
the slaughterhouse. California has enacted its own set
of rules regarding nonambulatory animals, rules which
were intended to be and are different than and in
addition to the Federal rules regarding the handling of
nonambulatory animals.
Where Federal law sets requirements for
receipt and allows for receipt if the -- if those rules
are followed, California law bans receipt of the animals
altogether.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about purchase? What
about -- what about the contract to purchase? The
California law addresses that. Do you -- do you contend
that that is pre-empted as well?
MR. WELLS: We do, Your Honor. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How so?
MR. WELLS: Justice Scalia, the reason
that -- the reason that we do is because, to the extent
that purchase is -- is even relevant with respect to a
federally inspected slaughterhouse, I think all the
parties agree that it occurs on or after the receipt;
so, it's part of the operational process.
JUSTICE KAGAN: What if it weren't? What if
it took place at an auction site apart from the
slaughterhouse?
MR. WELLS: Well, Justice Kagan, I --
because the scope of the FMIA starts at the gate of the
slaughterhouse and ends with sale, California, I think,
could regulate and not -- not have its regulation be
expressly pre-empted if it attempted to prevent purchase
before the purchase occurred.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or contract of purchase. I
mean, if the contract of purchase is made apart from the
slaughterhouse itself, they could make it unlawful for
the -- the person who raises the animals to sell them
when they're nonambulatory and unlawful for the
slaughterhouse to contract to buy them, right, so long
as the contract is off the premises?
MR. WELLS: So long as the -- so long as the
contract -- so long as title didn't pass, Your Honor, or
the -- it didn't interfere with what happens on the
premises from the gate through sale, then I believe that
would not be expressly pre-empted by --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. WELLS: -- by Federal law. There could
be implied pre-emption issues, however, in that
circumstance --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, your -- your
position is if the contract for purchase is consummated
in some way on premises, that's pre-empted? And so,
your answer to Justice Kagan and Justice Scalia is that
if the purchase contract occurs before the animals
arrive at the gate of the slaughterhouse, that that
would not be pre-empted?
MR. WELLS: Not be expressly pre-empted.
Again, there may be implied pre-emption issues, but if
the law -- I think, Your Honor, if the law is intended
to target --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, your whole
argument is on express pre-emption.
MR. WELLS: Yes, Your Honor. Absolutely
right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You've given up any
argument on implied.
MR. WELLS: Before -- we've not raised that
argument before this Court. That's correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Please tell me why you
think the sale of the meat is expressly pre-empted. The
Solicitor General says it's a closer question on sale of
the meat because the slaughterhouse processes -- the law
is involved only with the operations and -- of the
premises and manner of slaughtering and has nothing to
do with sales. So, why is the sale of the meat
pre-empted?
MR. WELLS: Your Honor, sale is a -- it is a
practical step. And the word "operations" as used in
678, I think all the parties agree it encompasses all
the practical steps of the slaughterhouse. Sale clearly
is the last practical step, to which all other practical
steps are directed. So, it is an operational step. It
would be news to the slaughterhouses that sales is not a
part of their operations. That's --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, how about there's a
law that says you can't slaughter cats, dogs, or horses,
or you can't sell cats, dogs, or horses for slaughter?
MR. WELLS: And, Your Honor, it would have
to be --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or for consumption.
MR. WELLS: I'd have to put --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that pre-empted?
MR. WELLS: It -- it would be. Well, with
respect to cats and dogs, the answer would be no,
because those are not amenable species that are subject
to inspection at a federally inspected slaughterhouse.
So, that's outside the scope of the FMIA.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there a Federal
regulation to that effect?
MR. WELLS: No -- yes. Only amenable
species can be slaughtered. Amenable species are
defined at U.S.C. -- 21 U.S.C. section 601 subsection
(w). And cats and dogs are not amenable species. So --
JUSTICE ALITO: And what's that definition?
MR. WELLS: Well, the definition is -- it's
kind of a roundabout definition, Your Honor. Amenable
species is -- mentions -- I mean, frankly, it mentions
catfish and -- and other species, and then all of the
animals which were amenable species prior to the
amendment of the Act in 2005. We set that forth in
footnote 11 of our -- our brief, but it clearly includes
swine, and it includes -- it includes horses. It
includes cattle, obviously.
JUSTICE ALITO: So, the Seventh Circuit
and -- and I forget what the other circuit was -- were
incorrect in saying that the -- that the State could
prohibit the slaughter of horses?
MR. WELLS: Yes, Your Honor. I believe they
were incorrect, although I would say that, even under
the rationale that the Fifth and Seventh Circuits used,
their rationale would not save this State law. And the
reason that it wouldn't is, even if you were to decide
that those -- those cases were decided correctly, the
rationale that the court used was we can interpret those
States' laws in a way that the -- the laws never have to
affect the operations of the slaughterhouse because we
can interpret those laws to keep the animals off the
slaughterhouse -- off premises.
It's easy to identify what's a horse and
keep it off the premises. That's not true with
nonambulatory animals. Nonambulatory animals present
with the symptom of nonambulatory-ness on the premises
or on the trucks that are waiting to arrive on the
premises. So, there is no way that this State law could
be interpreted in a way not to operate on premises.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, doesn't it seem
strange to hold that the Federal Meat Inspection Act
speaks to an issue like that? This doesn't have
anything -- whether or not horses should be slaughtered
and sold and their meat should be sold doesn't have
anything to do with food safety, does it? And it
doesn't have anything to do with humane treatment,
assuming the same methods of slaughter are used?
MR. WELLS: Well, I would disagree, Your
Honor. It clearly has to do -- this issue clearly has
to do with both of those issues. As the State has
admitted on page 6 of its brief, this law was intended
to address both -- both humane handling of animals,
which is covered directly in section 603(b) of the -- of
the Federal --
JUSTICE ALITO: No, I wasn't speaking of the
California law. I was speaking of the law that
prohibits the -- the slaughter of horses --
MR. WELLS: Well--
JUSTICE ALITO: That's based just on a
judgment, a societal judgment, that this is an animal
that should not be slaughtered and sold for food. What
does that have to do with any of the purposes of the
Federal Meat Inspection Act?
MR. WELLS: Well, because Congress has made
a different -- a different judgment, Justice Alito; and
what Congress has said is we have identified -- we,
Congress, have made a moral judgment that the following
species are amenable and may be inspected on
slaughterhouse premises. And to the extent that the
State is making a different moral judgment --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that presumably is why
Congress excluded cats and dogs?
MR. WELLS: That -- Congress -- correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, Lassie -- Lassie and
Kitty are no good?
MR. WELLS: Congress made a moral judgment
that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But Dobbin is all right.
MR. WELLS: I believe that's right, Your
Honor. It's a moral -- it is a moral judgment by
Congress as to which animals are going to be amenable
for slaughter and which ones aren't.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Young, you suggested
that even if the Seventh Circuit was correct, there
would still be a difference because of ease of
identification. You can tell a horse is a horse and
keep the horse away from the slaughterhouse. Would it
be possible to say the same thing about nonambulatory
swine? And I guess my question is, do nonambulatory
swine usually become nonambulatory in transit or at the
slaughterhouse, or could you identify such swine
earlier?
MR. WELLS: They -- nonambulatory swine
become nonambulatory -- may become nonambulatory in
transit. They may become nonambulatory on the
slaughterhouse premises. The only way that the
slaughterhouse operator knows that an -- that an animal
that has been transported has become nonambulatory,
however, is when the truck is brought onto the premises,
the gates are thrown open, and the animals are
shepherded off, and one of them doesn't move.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But I guess the -- the
State could make it unlawful for a rancher or -- what
are the people that ship the animals to you called?
Could it --
MR. WELLS: Could be a rancher or a farmer.
JUSTICE SCALIA: A rancher or farmer could
make it unlawful for them to ship a nonambulatory swine,
could they not?
MR. WELLS: Your Honor, Congress actually
has enacted regulations that don't -- they don't apply
to slaughterhouses because, again, the scope with
respect to slaughterhouses started at the slaughterhouse
gate.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but as far as this
statute is concerned, it would not preclude a State law
that forbids a -- a rancher to -- to ship a
nonambulatory swine, right?
MR. WELLS: That's correct. There are
Federal -- I should point out, there are Federal
regulations that govern the transportation of dead,
dying, and diseased animals. They don't apply to
slaughterhouses. They may apply in the situation that
Your Honor is contemplating.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought
that your argument on sales would apply at the front end
as well. You say sales can't be regulated because it's
really just a way to get to the regulation of what goes
on at the slaughterhouse. Wouldn't that concern also
apply at the front end?
MR. WELLS: Well, Your Honor, our argument
about sale is slightly different, and it's a little
different than the argument that's being made by the
Government. Our argument with respect to sale is there
are requirements specifically regulating sale. That's
found in 21 U.S.C. section 610(c). That says,
essentially, meat may not be sold if it is adulterated,
or, to put it another way, you may sell the meat if it's
unadulterated. So, that's a requirement. It's within
the scope of the FMIA. It -- it goes directly to sales
as an operation.
And it is different than and in addition to
the State regulation because what the State -- the State
adds another condition. They say you may not sell the
meat if it is from a nonambulatory animal, or, looked at
the other way, you may sell the meat as long as it's not
from a nonambulatory animal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that -- isn't
that logically not -- doesn't that logically not follow?
You may not sell meat if it's been adulterated doesn't
mean that you can sell meat so long as it's not been
adulterated; right?
MR. WELLS: Well, no. I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One is a limitation,
not a grant.
MR. WELLS: Well, I think, though, that
there were -- I think that -- the Federal -- what the
Federal Government has done is established a requirement
for the sale of meat. California has established
another requirement for the sale of meat.
Under Federal law, one requirement for the
sale of meat is that it not be adulterated, that it pass
through inspection, that it be stamped "USDA approved,"
all the conditions that happen at a slaughterhouse. The
State, though, has set forth a different condition, and
that is you may not sell that meat unless it comes from
a nonambulatory animal --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, isn't it the case that
most nonambulatory animals become nonambulatory because
of the method of transportation that's used? Do you
dispute the statistics in the brief of the non-State
Respondent that -- Respondents that, nationwide,
approximately 220,000 swine die during transport,
another 440,000 become nonambulatory during the
transportation process?
MR. WELLS: I don't -- Your Honor, the short
answer is I don't know where those statistics come from,
and to my knowledge they are not accurate. But I don't
have additional statistics to --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you dispute the fact that
the reason -- that ranchers generally do not ship
animals that are nonambulatory at the time when the trip
begins, but that most of these nonambulatory animals
become nonambulatory during the transportation process?
MR. WELLS: I think that is a fair
assumption, Your Honor, with respect to pigs that
present being nonambulatory when -- when the doors to
the -- to the truck are opened. I think that that's
correct. I think that the practice is not to ship
nonambulatory animals if you know beforehand that they
are nonambulatory.
JUSTICE ALITO: And you think it's difficult
to identify which animals are nonambulatory? That's the
difference between horses -- between prohibiting the
slaughter of horses, because you can tell whether it's a
horse or a pig, but you can't tell whether a pig can
walk?
MR. WELLS: No. It isn't the only
difference, Your Honor. Really, it -- the -- what I'm
really saying is the -- the condition of being
nonambulatory presents on the slaughterhouse premises.
And so, there is no way for a law to -- no way for us to
say the California law can be interpreted in a way that
will not tell a Federal slaughterhouse what to do and --
and how to do it with respect to nonambulatory animals.
That's not true in the horse case. In the horse case,
you can say keep the horses out. The -- the Federal
slaughterhouse doesn't have to have anything to do with
horses. So --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Would it be possible --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you tell me, if it's
okay for California to say you can't sell a
nonambulatory animal and that that applies to everyone
off the slaughterhouse premises, is that -- that's
basically your position. So that if the purchase occurs
on premises, then the person who's selling it, even if
it's not the slaughterhouse, can still sell it on the
premises?
MR. WELLS: If I understand your question,
Your Honor, if the -- if, let's say just for the
shorthand, if title passes on the premises, if that's
how it's understood in the industry and that's what it
is, that would be pre-empted. But if the law took
effect --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What a -- what a
fascinating area of immunity. Now what we're saying to
auction houses and everyone else is don't pass title
until you get to the slaughterhouse.
MR. WELLS: Well, Your Honor, it's just -- I
mean, I think the -- the real question is what has the
Federal Government said about nonambulatory animals in
general, and are those amenable species and may they
be -- may they be slaughtered and turned into food? And
the Federal regulations deal directly with that
situation. So, whether title passes before or after, if
the animal is on the Federal premises, there are a whole
series of Federal regulations that tell the
slaughterhouse worker exactly what the worker is
supposed to do with that animal.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Does that mean that a State
could actually pass a law and create a facility, let's
say, that says -- the law says the trucks have to stop
at the State facility before it gets to the
slaughterhouse, and at the State facility, we'll check
to see whether there are nonambulatory animals and make
sure that those animals don't go on to the
slaughterhouse? Would a State be within its rights to
do that?
MR. WELLS: Your Honor, the language of
section 603(a) says that the inspection is to occur
before they enter the slaughterhouse. Now, that has
been interpreted by the Secretary to essentially mean
immediately before; so -- so, trucks in line.
So, I think, under -- on Your Honor's
hypothetical, if the State had set up their own
inspection program right immediately outside of a -- of
a federally inspected slaughterhouse, that currently
would be within the scope of the FMIA, because that's
how the Secretary has defined it. The further upstream
it goes, though, the -- the less likely it is to be
expressly pre-empted.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if they do it at the
weigh station that a truck has to stop at when it enters
the State, that would be okay?
MR. WELLS: That would not be expressly
pre-empted, Your Honor. There might be implied
pre-emption issues.
And if there are no further questions, I'd
like to reserve my remaining time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Horwich.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN J. HORWICH
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. HORWICH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I haven't heard any quarrel this morning
with the proposition that if an animal goes down, say,
as it's entering the abattoir to be slaughtered, that
the State cannot at that point tell the slaughterhouse
how it is to handle that animal.
But that is not any different, of course,
than the situation where a pig goes down as it's coming
off the truck, or it presents as nonambulatory when the
gates of the truck are opened, because it's still an
operational consideration; the same humane handling
requirements still apply; it's still a State
requirement; and it's not -- it's still different from
the Federal requirements.
So, the Court's questions this morning, I
think, have gone to kind of the situations at the
margins, at the extreme. So, let me try to -- try to
address some of those questions.
The -- the question about whether -- the
question about the purchase of the nonambulatory animal
and the regulation, the regulation there, the first
thing is, as a practical matter, I think you have to
think about it in a concrete situation, which is that
there is a nonambulatory animal that's on the
slaughterhouse premises. That's the hypothetical that
we're in. And the question is, what is the
slaughterhouse employee to do with that animal? And the
State law says, well, you can't buy it, you can't hold
it, you can't receive it, you can't turn it into meat,
and you have to immediately euthanize it.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, before you get to that
point, the animal has to be transported. Does Federal
law regulate for humane purposes the transportation of
animals to slaughterhouses?
MR. HORWICH: There are Federal laws
regarding transportation. The Federal Meat Inspection
Act has not been interpreted by the Secretary to apply
specifically to trucks that are in transit, although I
should say that the Secretary has, for example,
interpreted the FMIA -- and this is in part 309.1(b) --
to apply, at least to the extent of humane handling, to
pens at stockyards that are committed exclusively to a
slaughterhouse.
And I think if there were a situation such
as I think, Justice Kagan, your hypothetical envisioned,
where a State determined that it wanted to essentially
assert an inspection jurisdiction over animals that were
in transit to a slaughterhouse -- so, essentially
between the pen and the slaughterhouse -- the Secretary
might well recognize that -- that his authority needs to
extend -- needs to extend to those, because the purpose
of the Act, after all, is to set a Federal inspection
standard for animals to determine if they're suitable to
be turned into meat. And in your --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if the Federal -- if
Congress has not chosen to regulate the transportation
of animals to prevent inhumane treatment in transit, why
should a State law that aims at that objective be
pre-empted?
MR. HORWICH: Well, if you -- if you
disagree with -- if you disagree with me about the scope
of the FMIA in that regard, the State law with respect
to the handling of the animals while they're in transit
wouldn't be pre-empted. But, of course, the injunction
that I understand Petitioners to be seeking is not one
that goes to State regulation of trucks but, rather, to
State regulation of animals that are on the
slaughterhouse premises. And the Secretary has made
unmistakably clear that the scope of the FMIA is at
least as large as the official slaughter establishment's
premises.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if the State could
inspect the trucks at a weigh station before they get to
the slaughterhouse, why can't they do the same thing
when they get to the slaughterhouse, where it's more
practical to do that?
MR. HORWICH: Well, accepting the premise of
your hypothetical that the State could do the inspection
on the truck --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you dispute -- you
dispute that?
MR. HORWICH: I dispute that, but I'll
accept that premise. Even if I accept that premise, the
question here is different because the Secretary has
drawn a line that says the scope of the FMIA -- and
that's -- the question is the scope of Federal law here.
That's in section 678. The Secretary has made very
clear that the scope of the FMIA extends to -- to all
animals that are on the premises of the establishment.
That's -- you can look at appendix --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, is there anything
saved to the State? I mean, there is a savings clause.
Once you get to the entrance to the slaughterhouse, is
there any room for any State regulation?
MR. HORWICH: Absolutely, Justice Ginsburg.
I mean, State laws of general applicability would, to
the extent they don't in some particular application
intrude into the scope of the FMIA, they would apply.
And I also want to be very clear, so that
there's no mistaking the Government's position: State
prosecutions for animal cruelty are not pre-empted to
the extent they are prosecuting conduct that is unlawful
under Federal law, because that is -- that is an example
of a State that is not applying a different or an
additional standard of conduct but simply adding --
applying its own sanction for conduct that Federal law
would similarly sanction. So, there's absolutely room
for State -- the application of State law on the
premises of the slaughterhouse.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In that respect, do State
inspectors routinely go on the premises of
slaughterhouse to ensure that their coextensive laws are
properly enforced? And if that's so, are there problems
of judgment, that a Federal inspector says, no, this is
okay under Federal law, and the State official says, no,
this is not okay under the State law, even though they
say the same thing?
MR. HORWICH: I'm -- I am not aware that in
general State inspectors or other State officials would
go to a federally inspected premises as a general
matter. But let's assume for the sake of argument that
they were, and then your question -- excuse me --
presents the question about these sort of differences in
judgment that might be made. The Federal regulations
generally provide that the disposition made by
veterinarians, by Federal veterinarians, is the
conclusive judgment of the Secretary as to the fitness
of the animal for turning into meat. And so, in that
situation, the State official would not be able to reach
a different judgment on that question. And so, I -- so,
I think that would resolve any situation where State
officials were there.
Of course, the situation where State
officials do inspections is the one that the Act itself
envisions and that California has not taken the
opportunity to implement, which is for intrastate-only
plants, States can enact their own inspection
regulations and have their own inspectors there as long
as they're following Federal standards at a minimum.
JUSTICE BREYER: What am I supposed to do --
I have a quick procedural question, which I think is
similar to Justice Ginsburg's. Suppose this is three
sections, the State law, and some of them have three
parts. Suppose I thought, well, the word "buy" -- I
mean, "buy" might cover an awful lot of things that
don't have much to do with operations. Maybe sometimes
they do. Suppose I ended up thinking that, but I
thought you were right about all the rest of it. What
am I supposed to do?
MR. HORWICH: Well, I would like to have an
opportunity to take issue with your premise. But the
answer your question --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no. I'm just doing
that hypothetically.
MR. HORWICH: Yes. Yes. The answer to your
question is this case comes here on preliminary
injunction; so, I think the Court could appropriately
articulate its answer and its understanding of the
different provisions, and that probably would then lead
to the lower courts working out the particulars of the
injunction.
But let me actually make a point in that
regard about what the injunction might or might not look
like with respect to the buying provision, which is that
I don't understand the State to have some free-floating
interest in when title does or doesn't pass. The State
is interested in regulating what animals can be
purchased because of a background principle of State law
that I assume exists, that slaughterhouses can't
slaughter things they don't own.
And if you put those two pieces together,
the ban on buying is nothing -- is nothing but doing in
two steps what the State clearly can't do in one step,
which is tell slaughterhouses how they are to deal with
an animal that is on their premises. At least, they
can't -- States can't tell slaughterhouses how to do
that when there is a Federal regulation on the subject.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do we have to peel this
onion in order to decide this case? I mean, do we have
to go through --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- each little provision of
the statute and say this is in, this is out, this is in,
this is out?
MR. HORWICH: Well, I have --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can't we just either affirm
or reverse the particular preliminary injunction that
was -- that was issued here?
MR. HORWICH: I think the Court could --
could do that, although I think there's some concern
that if the Court were to find -- to have some concern
with some specific aspect of the injunction -- and I
guess I would let Petitioner's counsel speak to this --
there would be some concern that vacating the injunction
so that it could be corrected would leave the -- the
Petitioner in a spot where it wouldn't have protection
from the vast majority of provisions --
JUSTICE BREYER: But what I discover is
there are at least 11 different provisions in this, and
I have exactly Justice Scalia's question. Do we have to
write an 11-part opinion where we treat each of these
different things, which are different, separately and
analyze it? I'm not trying to get out of the work. I
just want to know.
(Laughter.)
MR. HORWICH: Well, I think -- I think the
Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'd like to get out of the
work, to tell you the truth.
(Laughter.)
MR. HORWICH: The right way to get out of
the work would be to understand that -- that California
has made every effort here to implement a provision
that -- to implement one underlying requirement, which
is that it wants to tell slaughterhouses: Don't turn
these animals into food; immediately euthanize them
instead. And the rest of these are just ways of
implementing that underlying requirement. And this
answers your question --
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose we agree with you
about that. We say, if I agree with you about that,
there we are; you're supposed to pick up this animal
which is on the slaughterhouse floor and kill it right
away. That seems to have to do with operations. All
the rest of these other 10 provisions are just
variations on that theme, according to the Government,
and we send it back for them to argue this out below.
MR. HORWICH: If there would be anything
left to argue out below at that point. I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there are 10 other
parts. There are 10 other parts.
MR. HORWICH: Well, there are the 10 parts,
but I actually want to answer -- well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You want to give a
one-sentence answer?
MR. HORWICH: I think I can.
-- Justice Sotomayor's question, which is
the question about the sale of the meat, which, again, I
think fits under the rubric that it's just implementing
the underlying prohibition that California seeks here.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Smith.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SUSAN K. SMITH
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MS. SMITH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In order to be pre-empted here, the State
provisions have to be -- excuse me -- the State law
provisions have to be within the scope of the Act and
with respect to the premises, facilities, and
operations. None of the State provisions are within the
scope, and some are not even operations.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do you define the
scope?
MS. SMITH: The scope are the -- the
mandates of Federal law dealing with the method,
quality, and marketing of turning animals into meat for
human consumption.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So, now
explain how under your definition it's not among at
least one of those.
MS. SMITH: None of the provisions are
within the scope because California is not regulating
animals that are going to be turned into meat. And the
Federal Meat Inspection Act, the purpose of the Act, the
legislative history of the Act, show that the scope of
the Act is concerned with animals that are going to
become meat.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, is that true, Ms.
Smith? I thought that under the Federal program some of
these animals could become meat, that under the Federal
program, you take a nonambulatory animal and you say,
well, some of them might be condemned, but some of them
are suspect, and if they're only suspect, it may be that
eventually they'll be turned into meat.
MS. SMITH: That is correct. But the entire
purpose of the Act is to inspect and examine animals to
determine whether or not their meat will be wholesome
and unadulterated.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, no. No. Provisions
of the Act, at least as amended, also require humane
treatment of the animals while they're being processed.
That has nothing to do with whether the meat is any
good. It has to do with humane treatment of the
animals.
MS. SMITH: The humane treatment of the
animals deals with animals in the connection of
slaughter or while being slaughtered. And the animals
that California is regulating, the nonambulatory animals
that we're withdrawing from the process, will not be
slaughtered, will not be turned into meat. Even the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait. I don't -- you mean
the Federal requirements of humane treatment do not
apply once the slaughterhouse decides that this animal
will not be slaughtered for meat; then the
slaughterhouse can do whatever it wants with the poor
animal? That can't be right.
MS. SMITH: Well, the language of the
regulations -- of the Federal regulations dealing with
U.S. condemned animals, for instance, say that U.S.
condemned animals shall be killed and shall not be
slaughtered and dressed in the same facility with
animals that will be turned into meat. So, even in the
regulations there's a distinction between animals that
will be slaughtered for meat and that will be edible and
ones that are -- are condemned and will be killed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about the provision
that says that they will not be exposed to sharp --
sharp instruments that can injure them? Does that apply
to only those that are going to be sold for meat?
MS. SMITH: It applies to -- well,
specifically the provisions in the Federal Meat
Inspection Act apply to the animals that are going to be
turned into meat. To the extent they apply to other
animals or all animals as has been referenced, they
would be pursuant -- those provisions would be pursuant
to the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act, which is -- does
not have a pre-emption clause and does not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait, no. But that
Act amends, amends, the Act that does have a pre-emption
clause.
MS. SMITH: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And, therefore, it seems to
me the pre-emption clause applies to the humane
provisions as well.
MS. SMITH: It applies to the humane
provisions with animals -- with respect to the animals
in connection with slaughter and that will be
slaughtered, with respect to the Federal Meat Inspection
Act. Because the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act was
not incorporated into the Federal Meat Inspection Act,
it does not have an express pre-emption clause, and
there's no language in the text of that Act, the Humane
Methods Act, or in the legislative history showing that
it was an attempt to federalize animal cruelty law, for
instance. So, the idea that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just in slaughterhouses. I
mean, to the extent it's incorporated in that Act, it
only applies to humane treatment by slaughterhouses,
right?
MS. SMITH: Correct. 603 and 610 of the
Federal Meat Inspection Act reference the Humane Methods
Act and reference that that is to be applied when the
animals are in the -- being processed in the connection
with slaughter and being slaughtered. So, again, it
is -- it is limited to the animals that -- that are
going to become meat under the Federal Meat Inspection
Act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But they don't --
you don't know whether they're going to become meat
until after the Federal process of post-mortem
inspection and all of that. And your rules seem to
prohibit that.
MS. SMITH: Our rules -- well, the ante-
mortem inspection and post-mortem inspection are
required of animals that are going to be turned into
meat, correct. And our -- the California law does not
touch on post-mortem inspection at all. And only in the
case -- excuse me. And the -- as far as --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but I mean
your -- your argument up to this point has been that
this doesn't interfere with the Federal laws because the
Federal laws are designed only to deal with meat that is
for consumption. And you say with your -- with respect
to your animals, that's not what it is.
But here, as I understand the Petitioner's
and the Government's position, it is that nonambulatory
animals can be turned into meat for consumption. So,
you don't know whether it fits under the definition of
the State law until you've violated it.
MS. SMITH: No, because when an animal
becomes nonambulatory, it is readily apparent. That's a
characteristic that is readily apparent. And in -- at
least in California, when the animal becomes
nonambulatory, the requirement would be to immediately
euthanize the animal because it's not part of the meat
supply system.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But that's exactly where the
California system diverges from the Federal system
because under the Federal system you separate the animal
out, and then you take a look at it, and then you decide
whether that animal can continue to go through the
process and eventually become meat, or whether you
euthanize it. So, the California system commands an
action that the Federal system say may be necessary but
may not be.
MS. SMITH: It commands an action, but it's
not within the scope of the Act because at the very
outset California is saying that these animals are not
to be part of the meat supply system in California.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Where the Federal system has
said maybe they should be part of the meat supply
system.
MS. SMITH: They may be part of the meat
supply system, but it's not required. It's not --
nonambulatory animals are not --
JUSTICE BREYER: But in any case, it's --
look, this is a simple question that occurs. I am an
inspector at a federally inspected meat facility. I
look around, and there is a -- a cow and it's lying
down. All right? It seems to me that your law says I
have to go over and see that it is immediately
euthanized.
Now, how is that not what is forbidden, a
requirement -- the exact words are -- "in addition to or
different from the Federal requirements governing the
operations of that Federal meatpacking facility."
The Federal law does not require me
immediately to go over and euthanize the cow. Your law
does require me to go over and immediately euthanize the
cow. And, therefore, your law seems an additional
requirement in respect to the operations of a -- a
federally inspected meatpacking facility. Now, that
seems to me the obvious, simple argument that people
have been making, and I would like to know your obvious,
simple answer.
MS. SMITH: Certainly, Your Honor. The
euthanization is an operation of the slaughterhouse.
But it's -- but this -- California's provision is not
within the scope. And pursuant to 678, to be expressly
pre-empted, it has to be within the scope and with
respect to operations.
So, with respect to that provision, the
euthanization provision, we concede that it is -- it is
part of the operations. But it is not within the scope
because we're dealing with an animal that California has
deemed as not part -- as -- excuse me --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I understood that the
Federal regulation -- you can correct me if I'm
misunderstanding -- is that if there is a suspect animal
of any kind, that it requires a slaughterhouse to wait
until the Federal inspector comes and finds out whether
it's just suspect or it's something that can't be sold.
And the reason why the inspection occurs, as
I understand it, is that there are some diseases that
are so contagious that if the inspector decides that
that animal is carrying that disease, that the whole lot
will be quarantined or otherwise destroyed. So, are you
fighting with -- that that's what the purpose of
pre-inspection under the Federal system is for?
MS. SMITH: The distinction I would make,
Your Honor, is that the purpose of the ante-mortem
inspection is to determine if the -- if the animal's
meat will be wholesome and unadulterated. To the extent
that the pre-inspection or the inspection also finds
diseases that can be passed on to other animals or -- or
to the rest of the herd, that's -- that's certainly a
benefit, but it's not part of the purpose of the Federal
Meat Inspection Act.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm having a hard time
drawing that distinction. If there is a valid purpose
to the pre-mortem inspection -- and I can't see how you
can argue otherwise -- that there may be some diseases
that are so contagious that the entire lot, ambulatory
or nonambulatory swine, are affected, then I don't see
how you can argue that you aren't trenching on the scope
of the statute. If the scope of the statute is to
ensure that meat is unadulterated and if there is the
risk of contagion, that has to be within the scope.
MS. SMITH: Two points. One, the diseases
that were referenced by the amicus dealing with this are
diseases that will be passed to the animals, not to
humans.
And the second point is that the -- the
purpose, again, of the Act as specified in 602 is to
make sure that the meat of the animal is wholesome and
unadulterated. And the ante-mortem inspection will
occur for every animal that goes into the meat supply
system.
So, if California withdraws a nonambulatory
animal, it doesn't receive the ante-mortem inspection,
it's not going into the meat supply system. But all of
the other animals in that pen that are ambulatory,
pursuant to the Federal law, will receive that
ante-mortem inspection and will, by the inspector or the
veterinarian, be declared disease free or not. So, they
will find -- they will be able to find those diseases in
the ambulatory animals and the ones that are going into
the meat supply system.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, I suppose what you're
saying, Ms. Smith, is that California or any State is
entitled to take certain categories of animals outside
of the whole process, to exclude certain categories of
animals from the whole process and so to exclude them,
if you will, from of the scope of this chapter. And
much as the Seventh Circuit said a State can simply
exclude horses from the scope of this statute, you're
saying a State can exclude nonambulatory swine from the
scope of this statute.
But then you have to, you know, ask yourself
the question: Are nonambulatory swine so easily
excludable as horses? Why couldn't the State then
exclude swine with various kinds of diseases? And then
it would be clear that the State was doing something
that the Federal statute is supposed to be doing.
MS. SMITH: Your Honor, if your question is,
would that be pre-empted if California excluded pursuant
to other diseases, it would not be expressly pre-empted.
So, California can make decisions on categories of
animals, here nonambulatory swine, and the -- it would
not be expressly pre-empted. There may be questions
about conflict pre-emption, but in this particular case,
conflict pre-emption was litigated in the Ninth Circuit,
and the Ninth Circuit found that there was no conflict
pre-emption.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's an additional
requirement. I don't know why it's conflict
pre-emption. It's express pre-emption. If indeed the
Federal regulations say that these diseases disqualify
the animal from being slaughtered and sold as meat, and
California says no, we think additional diseases should
disqualify the slaughter and sale, that's an additional
requirement. I don't know how you say that's somehow
conflict pre-emption. It's express pre-emption.
MS. SMITH: It's not expressly pre-empted
because it's not within the scope, because California is
not putting requirements on animals --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You keep saying "not within
the scope." I don't know what you mean by "not within
the scope." Why is it not within the scope?
MS. SMITH: Because the scope of the Federal
Meat Inspection Act does not include every animal on the
premises of a slaughterhouse. It's limited by the
language of the -- of the text of the Federal Meat
Inspection Act and the authority given to the Secretary.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right, and what -- what
limits it? What enables the State to disqualify other
diseases that the Federal law does not disqualify?
MS. SMITH: California would -- there's no
requirement in -- there's nothing in the text of the
Federal Act that specifies that States cannot withdraw
animals based --
JUSTICE SCALIA: "No additional
requirements" is what the Act says.
MS. SMITH: Correct. But that is -- no
additional requirements going to animals that are going
to become meat. If California -- if California had a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it doesn't say that.
It says "no additional requirements" with respect to all
of the operations, both the operations that pertain to
those animals that are later sold as meat and the
operations that pertain to those animals that are
slaughtered and whose carcasses are burned or disposed
of. How do you get the limitation to only those animals
that are -- that are slaughtered for meat?
MS. SMITH: Because it's also within the
scope. Within the scope is part of the -- of the -- of
678. The express pre-emption clause references within
the scope of the chapter with respect to premises,
facilities, and operations. So, there -- the scope of
the chapter must be considered in terms of what the
purpose is, what the language of the text allows the
Federal Government --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, your argument is
that because the Act doesn't speak to whether or not
cats and dogs and horses can be sold as meat, you can
also say it's not within the scope because it doesn't
speak to specifically whether nonambulatory animals can
be sold as meat or not.
MS. SMITH: Correct, and since, Mr. Chief
Justice --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that seems to
me -- what you're saying then with respect to animals
that are slaughtered in a slaughterhouse is that the
difference is that the State law says you can't sell
that as meat while the Federal law says you can. Right?
In other words, you're saying, well, just because the
Federal law says you can doesn't mean that the State
can't say you can't.
MS. SMITH: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Correct? Well,
isn't the exact flip side of saying you can sell it is
that -- that you can't sell it is that you can. So,
when the Federal law says you can, that pre-empts the
rule from the States that says you can't.
MS. SMITH: Well, the Federal law doesn't
say you must. It does not say you must sell the meat or
you must --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But we're not talking about
conflict pre-emption. If it said you must and the State
says you can't, then there would be conflict
pre-emption. But we're talking about express
pre-emption, which says in so many words no additional
requirements. And I don't know how you can get around
the fact that this is an additional requirement.
MS. SMITH: Because the "no additional
requirements" has to be qualified within the scope of
the Act.
JUSTICE BREYER: It does, you're right.
You're right. I see where you're going. It says we're
talking about regulations that are within the scope of
the Act. But I have assumed that that means we're not
talking about airplanes; we're talking about the subject
matter of the Act. And so, is this the kind of
regulation that is within the subject matter of the Act?
And it seems to be. It has to do with how you slaughter
animals. It has to -- I mean, if you're going to be so
specific as you say the only things that are within the
scope of the Act are the specific requirements that are
there already in the Federal Act, then this prohibition
against extra regulations means nothing.
I mean, it can't mean that. So, it just
means the subject matter. And now, if it means the
subject matter, then why don't you lose?
MS. SMITH: This -- well, even if one looks
at the subject matter instead of the scope of the Act --
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you mean, instead
of? What is the scope of the Act? Are you saying the
scope of the Act refers only to those particular
provisions that are already in the Act, requirements
already there?
MS. SMITH: Yes, the scope of the Act --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes? Then why did they put
in something saying you can't add anything?
MS. SMITH: Because the "in addition to" is
qualified by on the -- with respect to the premises,
facilities, and operations and within the scope of the
Act.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you define the scope
almost exclusively by purpose. And regulatory power is
broader than purpose, I mean, as is reflected by the
regulations here which are dealing not merely with
animals that are adulterated but are dealing with the
whole process of what happens from the minute they
arrive to the minute they're sold. So, if we don't
accept your limitation based on a scope being defined by
purpose, how do you win?
MS. SMITH: If one looks at the authority
given to the Secretary as well in 621, the authority is
specified as dealing with -- or making sure that no
adulterated meat or any carcass, part of carcass, meat
food product therefor is not adulterated. So, the focus
in 621 on the Secretary's authority is on making sure
that -- that the meat is not adulterated. So -- so,
it's not simply the -- the purpose of the Act at 602 but
also the scope of the authority given to the Secretary.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you seem to be
assuming that in effecting its obligations that only
when it finds adulterated meat is that within the -- the
scope. The Government has basically said: We've got to
figure out if it is, and this is how we're going to do
it: We're going to do it starting from the receipt of
the swine through its sale, and we're going to have
inspections all through the process, whether or not the
meat will ultimately be sold or not; our scope is what
happens in that slaughterhouse. That --
MS. SMITH: Correct. But the -- the focus
of the Secretary's authority, as well as the specified
purpose of the Act, is focused on not all animals, but
animals that will eventually become meat and making a
determination, by inspections or examinations, whether
or not -- whether or not those swine or those meat will
be wholesome and not adulterated.
JUSTICE BREYER: I -- I didn't see your
argument, and now I see it. Okay. So, I understand
where you're going.
But then if I look at section 610 of the
Act, it has a whole bunch of prohibitions, including
prohibitions and references to how you slaughter
animals, and including how you slaughter animals
humanely. So, there, how do you say that this provision
which talks about euthanizing an animal that you look
around and it's lying down -- how is that not within the
scope of the Act? I'm not saying that they have that
particular thing, but the subject matter, slaughtering
animals, indeed humanely, is something the Act
absolutely deals with.
MS. SMITH: It -- as I mentioned earlier,
it's certainly part of the operations. Euthanization
is --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I didn't say that. I
said yes, it's part of the operations, but also it's the
subject matter with which the Act deals. The Act deals
with the humane slaughter of animals and other forms of
slaughter of animals. So, how -- how is -- so, I repeat
my question.
MS. SMITH: It deals with animals in
connection with slaughter and that will be slaughtered.
And so, to the extent that that -- that slaughter is
seen as an animal that is going towards the meat supply
system, as opposed to one that's condemned and being
killed and not -- not --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. I see. That's what
you said before --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think that's what
within the scope means. The pre-emption provision here
in the statute has two provisions. The first one, which
is the one we're talking about, says requirements within
the scope of this chapter with respect to premises,
facilities, and operations which are in addition to or
different than those made under this chapter may not be
imposed. That's the first one. Okay? Requirements
within the scope with respect to premises, facilities.
Now, the second pre-emption provision reads:
"marking, labeling, packaging, or ingredient
requirements in addition to, or different than, those
made under this chapter." Now, I read the difference
between those two being, under number two it has to be
different from something that has been made; whereas
under number one, it just has to be different from
anything that could have been made under this chapter.
It's within the scope of the chapter. It's
within the Secretary's authority to prescribe under this
chapter. I think that's what Congress meant by the
difference between requirements within the scope and, in
number two, "in addition to, or different than, those
made," and that to my mind is -- is a much more
plausible explanation of "within the scope" than -- you
know, it's directed to the purpose of -- of the statute.
I don't think within the scope has anything
to do with the purpose. It has to do with whether the
Secretary is authorized to act in this field under the
chapter.
MS. SMITH: And as -- as I mentioned, the
Secretary is given several -- at several different
points authority to act under this chapter, and the
Secretary's authority is -- is circumscribed to making
sure that meat is not adulterated and setting up
inspections and examinations --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. You're not
seriously arguing that the Secretary couldn't regulate
in the manner California has, that the Secretary is
powerless under this Act to say you can't slaughter
animals that can't walk?
MS. SMITH: No. The Secretary has done --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The Secretary could do
that?
MS. SMITH: Yes. The Secretary -- yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because that would be a
requirement? Is that -- is that -- do you rely heavily
on -- on the distinction between a requirement and
something that's merely permissive?
MS. SMITH: No, we don't. Our -- our focus
is on -- on the scope of the Act and not on
requirements. We -- we concede that the -- that
California statute is setting out requirements, the
requirements in the penal code dealing with animal
cruelty in -- in areas traditionally regulated by the
State. So, we -- we do not dispute that the -- the
provisions in the State law are requirements.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But suppose, Ms. Smith, you
decided that the Secretary was not doing a good job in
terms of inspecting for disease. So, I guess that
there's some disease called diamond skin disease which
affects a lot of pigs. And you just thought that the
inspection standards were far too lenient, and you said,
okay, we're not going to allow pigs with diamond skin
disease to be slaughtered. Under your theory you could
do that, too; isn't that right?
MS. SMITH: Yes, we could because we would
be categorically withdrawing the animal from -- from the
process. I want to be clear, though, we're not -- with
this law we are not setting up an inspection and
examination process. It's -- this provision is in the
penal code. It's an animal -- it's within the animal
cruelty statutes. It is not an attempt to set --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But in fact it requires a
parallel inspection system. It's trying to do the exact
same thing that the Secretary is trying to do, which is
trying to remove animals with a certain kind of disease,
and it requires an inspection system of its own.
MS. SMITH: In our -- our case or in your
hypothetical?
JUSTICE KAGAN: In my hypothetical case.
MS. SMITH: In your hypothetical --
JUSTICE KAGAN: And then I think that the
cases seem similar to make.
MS. SMITH: Well, it -- it would not be
expressly pre-empted, the hypothetical that you have
given me, because we're withdrawing these animals from
the scope of the Act. There may be questions about
conflict pre-emption in that -- in that example, but
with respect to what we're doing, what the California
provision is doing there, it's not setting up a parallel
provision. It's not trying to set up a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The other argument is that
it is within the scope of the Act because it is
pre-eminently something that the Secretary is authorized
to regulate, this nefarious diamond skin disease which
we're all familiar with.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's within the scope of
the Act, because he could act and indeed is -- is told
to act to prevent stuff like that. And that's why it's
within the scope of the Act for California to do
something in addition to what he has chosen to do.
And that's why there's a difference between
one and two, requirements within the scope, and
marketing, labeling, and packaging requirements in
addition to or different from those made. This one
isn't made, but it is within the scope of what the
Secretary could make. And, therefore, California should
butt out.
MS. SMITH: Let me be precise about -- if
one -- if one saw that -- that paragraphs (b) and (c) of
the California law were within the scope, there's still
an argument that they have to be with -- part of the
operations, the premises, facilities, and operations.
And certainly with respect to requirement (a), the
buying, selling, and the sale of meat, those are not
necessarily operations. And we do dispute the -- the
factual assertion that's been made that all purchasing
happens on the -- on the slaughterhouse grounds.
There's no -- no factual record of that in the -- in the
lower record. We have no way to dispute that because it
was not -- it was not litigated.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose I agree with you on
that but don't agree with you -- or least I'm dubitante
on that and -- and disagree with you on the rest. What
do I do?
MS. SMITH: We believe the -- the law could
be or would be severable. In the Ninth Circuit, the
preliminary injunction went to all provisions except for
subparagraph (e). We would have to litigate
severability, of course, but we do think that it would
be severable, and it seems that the Ninth Circuit --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- what purpose
does the ban on buying and selling have, other than to
implement the restrictions that go to operations?
MS. SMITH: Well, the purpose of the
California law is twofold. One, general public health,
but there's also a very strong component of prohibiting
animal cruelty. And so, prohibiting the purchase,
buying, selling, or the sale of meat --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that seems to me
to be, the answer, that, no, it doesn't have anything
else to do because the animal cruelty that you're
concerned about takes place on the premises as a result
of the operations. And so, you prohibit the buying and
selling of an animal that wasn't treated the way you
think it should be treated, to give effect to your views
on how it should or should not be treated, which seems
to be expressly pre-empted.
MS. SMITH: Well, not necessarily, because
the law -- if we look at the entire California penal
code section, it's dealing not just with
slaughterhouses. So, it is trying to deal with a
comprehensive problem that it sees with respect to
nonambulatory animals, not just at the slaughterhouse
but at other market agencies, et cetera -- and livestock
agencies. And so -- so, the focus on purchasing,
buying, receipt, selling of the meat is to prohibit and
-- and stop the -- the commerce in nonambulatory
animals.
And California's purpose there, as I said,
was twofold, to, one, protect general public health but
also to prohibit animal cruelty in an area where --
where California legislators were concerned about the
humane treatment of nonambulatory animals, not just
swine, because the law is broader than that, but that's
what's at issue here today.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What does it include
besides swine?
MS. SMITH: It includes cattle, sheep,
goats, and swine. And the preliminary injunction was
brought --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Those are -- those
all go through slaughterhouses?
MS. SMITH: They do. They do. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Wells, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN J. WELLS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. WELLS: Thank you. I just have a couple
of quick points to make. One is that the Secretary has
interpreted the -- section 602 and section 603 and
section 604 to require that all animals be handled --
all animals on the premises be handled humanely and that
all animals be subject to the regulations under the
chapter. That's set forth in 9 C.F.R. 302.3, and it's
also set forth in the Secretary's directives. It's
directive 6100 at appendix at 47.
So, the Secretary does not make a
distinction in implementing section 602 through 604
between animals that the State may choose to try to
categorically remove. It applies to all animals, and
that is critical because a State -- a slaughterhouse
worker who is on the premises needs to have one set of
rules that -- that the worker follows so that the worker
knows that if he follows the advice of a Federal
inspector and, for example, puts a nonambulatory
animal -- separates the animal, puts it in a covered
pen, and lets it go through the ante-mortem inspection
that it's required to have under Federal law, that the
slaughterhouse worker won't go to jail.
And that's why it's critical that -- to
Congress -- that was critical to Congress that we had
this uniformity, and I think it's critical that this
Court find pre-emption in this case because otherwise
Federal law will appear and disappear, apparently, based
on when the State believes that it's removing animals
from -- in connection with slaughter, whenever that
would occur.
Just one other point, and that is it is also
crystal clear that the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act
of 1978 incorporated the standards of humane treatment
that were included in the Humane Methods of Slaughter
Act of 1958, and it isn't just the preamble to that
public law that indicates that.
Those requirements are found now in 21
U.S.C. section 603(b), and they are backed up by
prohibitions which are backed up by criminal penalties
in section -- in 21 U.S.C. section 610 -- yes, 610(b).
And if the Court has no more questions, I'll
conclude my remarks.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you counsel,
counsel.
MR. WELLS: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
54:23 43:18,20,25 44:23 45:16 apart 4:14,23 assertion 50:13
45:3 advice 53:16 48:16 51:9,13 apparently 54:1 Association 1:3
affirm 25:20 53:18,18 APPEARAN... assume 23:5
19:21 50:19 8:19 9:11 applicability 43:24
23:18 aims 20:17 10:15 11:9,13 22:5 assumption
airplanes 42:4 12:6 14:3,16 application 22:6 14:20
AL 1:7 14:17,24 15:2 22:17 attempt 31:20
31:2,5,5 Alito 7:17 8:2,24 15:14 16:15 applied 32:3 48:17
9:14,18,24 17:4,5 19:18 applies 15:22 attempted 4:20
32:2 14:2,14 15:1 20:6,12,16,22 30:21 31:9,11 Attorney 1:6,22
33:23 17:21 19:15 21:1,23 25:1 31:24 53:12 auction 4:14
37:1 20:14 21:6,14 26:25 28:17,24 apply 11:20 12:6 16:11
allow 48:8 29:2,6,12,17 12:7,10,14 authority 20:9
41:24 allows 3:23 29:20,22,22,23 18:21 19:21,25 39:11 43:14,15
40:13 29:24 30:10,11 22:7 30:4,19 43:19,22 44:9
altogether 3:25 30:13,14,23,25 30:23,24 46:14 47:2,3
43:4,21 ambulatory 30:25 31:12,12 applying 22:13 authorized
36:15 37:9,14 32:4,6,16,25 22:15 46:23 49:14
46:23 amenable 7:8,13 33:3,24 34:7 appropriately aware 23:2
49:7 7:14,16,19,22 36:7,23 37:9 24:16 awful 24:4
10:2,15 16:16 37:14,18,20 approved 13:22 a.m 1:14 3:2
54:6,9 amended 29:16 38:11 39:3,18 approximately 54:22
40:19,24 42:8 area 16:10 52:8 B
34:16 18:8 36:22 45:10,11,13 36:14,17 backed 54:12,13
46:1,7,17 analyze 26:12 47:10 48:21 arguing 47:7 background
50:1 Angeles 1:23 49:6 51:25 argument 1:13 25:2
34:22 9:19 11:6 13:4 53:5,11,12 3:7 5:25 6:4,6 bans 3:24
13:6 14:1 54:2 12:10,15,17,18 based 9:18
15:22 16:20,23 animal's 36:4 18:6 23:5 28:3 39:18 43:12
18:12,15 19:4 answer 5:16 7:7 32:21 34:25 54:1
22:10 23:12 24:17 27:17,19 49:12 50:8 44:1
3:8 51:7,21 52:9 chosen 20:15 condition 13:3 26:2 28:1
28:4 California's 49:22 13:24 15:9 52:21 54:17,18
35:5 52:6 circuit 8:2,3 conditions 13:23 couple 52:25
50:22 48:5 38:14,15 50:23 22:14,15 20:23 23:17
2:6 18:6 case 3:4 14:2 47:3 Congress 3:11 18:10 24:16
25:15 25:13 32:19 5:12 10:7,10,15 28:6 53:25
27:4,14 34:8 38:13 clause 22:1 31:3 11:19 20:15 54:15
41:25 48:23,25 53:25 31:6,9,17 40:9 46:15 53:23,23 courts 24:19
44:15 54:20,22 clear 21:3,22 connection Court's 18:24
cases 8:11 49:3 22:8 38:5 29:22 31:13 cover 24:4
48:12 53:12 clearly 6:18 7:24 54:3 53:18
37:19 38:10 closer 6:9 18:20 create 16:25
cats 6:24,25 7:7 48:16 51:22 40:12 critical 53:13,22
48:21 24:15 35:18 32:24 33:3 52:8
50:11 36:8 45:5 commands contagious curiae 1:20 2:8
50:10 33:19,22 35:22 36:15 18:8
cetera 52:1 commerce 52:4 contemplating currently 17:16
3:14,17 53:6 concede 35:10 contract 4:2,22 dead 12:5
4:3,18 characteristic 47:21 4:23 5:2,3,5,14 deal 16:18 25:8
13:18 33:8 concern 12:13 5:17 32:23 51:23
23:19 check 17:3 25:24,25 26:3 correct 6:6 10:7 dealing 28:16
27:24 Chief 3:3,9 12:9 concerned 11:25 10:18 12:3 30:9 35:12
29:24 13:7,13 18:4,9 29:2 51:14 14:23 29:11 36:22 43:8,9
33:9,14 27:18 28:1,5 52:9 31:7 32:1,17 43:16 47:23
32:9,20 40:15 conclude 54:16 35:15 39:21 51:22
37:6,17 40:21,23 41:7 conclusive 23:11 40:21 41:6,7 deals 29:22 45:3
51:3,11 52:13 concrete 19:7 44:8 45:9,9,13
52:18,21 54:17 condemned 29:8 corrected 26:4 decide 8:10
49:9 54:20 30:10,11,16 correctly 8:11 25:13 33:16
50:3,7 choose 53:11 45:17 counsel 18:4 decided 8:11
directly 9:12 effect 7:12 16:8 33:18 44:11 40:11 43:3
disagree 9:7 effecting 43:24 48:19 facility 16:25
37:12 48:4,5,5 enact 23:21 examinations factual 50:13,15
43:12 diseased 12:6 11:20 examine 29:12 familiar 49:16
28:20 36:7,14,21,23 6:17 22:12 49:8 48:7
37:13 38:4,9 ended 24:6 53:17 farmer 11:15,16
disposed 40:4 enforced 22:22 exclude 37:19 16:10
disqualify 38:20 enters 17:22 exclusively 20:1 15:13,16 16:15
distinction 36:15 51:21 excuse 23:6 28:8 18:23 19:16,19
36:4 47:17 53:10 entrance 22:2 exists 25:3 21:20 22:12,15
dogs 6:24,25 7:7 ESQ 1:16,18,22 46:19 28:16,25 29:5
41:1 doing 24:12 25:6 17:11 20:5,7 31:17 38:19,25 32:7,11,22,23
49:23 38:5,6 48:3 established 40:9 41:18 33:14,15,20
10:4 drawing 36:12 21:23 17:20,24 35:6 36:9 37:10
13:1 drawn 21:19 establishment's 38:9,12 39:1 38:6,20 39:7
18:16,22 dressed 30:12 21:4 49:5 51:19 39:10,14,17
22:13 dubitante 50:19 et 1:7 52:1 extend 20:10,10 40:14 41:2,4
24:18 dying 12:6 euthanization extends 21:22 41:10,12 42:11
D.C 1:9,19 35:4,10 45:5 extent 4:8 10:3 53:16,20 54:1
46:2,7 euthanize 19:14 19:25 22:6,11 federalize 31:20
E 26:25 33:11,19 30:24 31:23 federally 3:14
50:1 e 2:1 3:1,1 50:25 34:20,21 36:5 45:15 4:10 7:9 17:16
easily 38:2 euthanizing Fifth 8:8
53:25 general 1:6,19 handle 18:15 human 28:18 31:16,23 54:7
22:5 23:3,4 handling 3:12 18:20 19:17,25 indicates 54:10
46:3 generally 14:15 18:20 19:25 30:3 31:2,9,11 ingredient 46:6
17:17 given 6:3 39:11 hard 36:11 humans 36:24 injure 30:19
20:21 43:15,22 47:1 Harris 1:6 3:5 hypothetical inspect 21:7
49:6 health 51:7 52:7 17:14 19:9 29:12
go 17:5 22:20 hear 3:3 20:4 21:12 inspected 3:14
52:2 33:17 34:13,20 heavily 47:16 49:5 17:16 23:4
17:19 18:12,17 Honor 4:5 5:5 idea 31:21 13:22 17:9,15
26:25 28:24 29:2 10:14 11:19 identified 9:25 28:25 30:23
30:20,23 32:7 12:8,15 14:10 identify 8:17 31:14,16 32:2
48:3 10:20,21 15:5 implement inspections
54:11 12:5 horses 6:24,25 51:5 47:5
16:15 27:10 40:17 6:4 17:25 inspectors 22:20
22:9 33:2 19:19 20:19 52:13 31:21
24:9,14
11:23 48:4 27:20 44:21 interest 24:25
26:7,9,17 27:4 26:13 32:10 legislators 52:9 marking 46:6
28:1,5,13,19 38:18,24 39:5let's 16:4,25 23:5 42:5,6,14
17:11 30:17 31:4,8 knowledge limitation 13:13 45:9 54:23
53:2 31:22 32:9,20 14:12 40:5 43:12 mean 4:23 7:20
35:14 36:11 53:16 39:9 17:11 22:1,5
41:7,15,25 49:25 litigated 38:14 41:4 42:8,13
18:1 45:7,19,21 39:10 40:13 25:16 42:14,14 45:22
large 21:4 livestock 52:1 meant 46:15
3:7 18:6 50:18 51:3,11 26:19 49:17 13:5,10 23:22 8:25 9:3,22
52:13,18,21 law 3:22,24 4:3 look 21:24 24:22 12:21,22 13:4
10:1,4 K 1:22 2:10 28:3 11:25 13:20 looks 42:16 23:12 27:22
22:23 Kagan 4:13,16 15:11,12 16:7 43:14 28:17,24,25
5:16 10:17 16:25 17:1 Los 1:22 29:3,6,10,13
20:4 29:4 20:21 21:20 lot 24:4 35:23 30:13,15,20,22
4:1,6,7,13 37:16 48:2,18 22:25 24:2 lower 24:19 32:2,7,7,10,17
5:9,13 48:25 49:2 25:2 28:8,16 50:16 32:23 33:3,11
6:3 KAMALA 1:6 31:20 32:17 lying 34:11 33:18,25 34:3
7:3,5,11 keep 8:15,18 33:5 34:12,19 44:24 34:5,10 36:5
8:2,24 10:21 15:16 34:20,22 37:10 36:10,19 37:2
39:4 39:14 41:1,2,4 M 37:4,8,15
KENNEDY 41:10,12 48:1 Maine 3:15 38:21 39:8,10
22:19 48:14 50:7,22 majority 26:6 39:23 40:2,6
13:7,13 kick 3:15 51:7,21 52:11 making 10:4 40:17,20 41:2
15:1 kill 27:7 53:20 54:1,10 35:1 43:16,19 41:13 43:17,17
16:9 killed 30:11,16 laws 8:13,13,15 44:11 47:3 43:20,25 44:6
17:21 45:18 19:19 22:5,21 mandates 28:16 44:11,13 45:16
19:15 kind 7:19 18:25 32:22,23 manner 6:12 47:4 50:11
21:6 35:17 42:5 lead 24:18 47:8 51:10 52:3
22:4 48:21 leave 26:4 margins 19:1 meatpacking
23:24 kinds 38:4 left 27:13 market 52:1 34:18,24
14:1,3,3,8,16 opened 14:22 particulars 47:2 53:1
14:25 15:2,10 operate 8:23 parties 4:11 position 5:14
17:4 18:18 35:4 parts 24:3 27:15 33:2
33:2,7,10 34:7 6:20 18:20 pass 5:5 13:21 15:19
38:2,11 40:19 6:16,22 8:14 passed 36:7,23 32:11,15,18
54:6,8 51:25 52:4,10 24:5 27:8 passes 16:5,19 power 43:6
non-State 14:5 43:3 45:5,8 penal 47:23 19:6 21:10
O 2:1 3:1 23:20 24:10 permissive 24:15 25:21
obligations oral 1:12 2:2,5,9person 4:25 premise 21:11
obvious 34:25 ordained 3:11 pertain 40:1,3 premises 5:3,7
51:20 official 21:4 49:25 pick 27:6 39:9 40:10
23:18 50:6 pigs 14:20 48:6 51:14 53:4,14
51:2 once 22:2 30:4 34:3,5 35:11 please 3:10 6:7 18:18 23:7
5:1 37:14 40:8 43:17 point 12:4 18:14 10:5
10:22 one-sentence 45:5,8 50:8 19:16 24:21 prevent 4:20
11:2 27:19 particular 22:6 27:13 32:21 20:16 49:20
onion 25:13 25:21 38:13 36:25 54:5 pre-eminently
27:24 42:11 35:6 37:10 8:10 14:15 52:22
5:8,15,19 44:19,20 54:13 put 7:4 12:22 REBUTTAL remove 48:21
6:8,14 7:5 prohibits 9:16 25:5 42:24 2:12 52:23 53:12
17:20,25 properly 22:22 puts 53:17,18 receipt 3:23,23 removing 54:2
22:10 proposition putting 39:3 3:24 4:11 44:3 repeat 45:11
35:7 38:8 18:12 52:3 require 29:16
39:1 prosecuting Q receive 19:13 34:19,21 53:3
51:19 22:11 qualified 41:23 37:7,10 required 32:16
22:10 quality 3:13 record 50:15,16 requirement
31:3,5,9 protect 52:7 28:17 reference 32:2,3 12:23 13:17,19
38:13,14 protection 26:5 quarantined referenced 13:20 18:22
provide 23:9 35:24 30:25 36:22 26:23 27:2
40:9 provision 24:23 quarrel 18:11 references 40:9 33:10 34:16,23
25:16 26:22 question 6:9 44:20 38:18,24 39:16
46:5 30:17 35:5,9 10:23 16:3,14 refers 42:20 41:21 47:16,17
53:25 35:10 44:22 19:3,4,10 reflected 43:7 50:10
provisions 24:18 24:11,15 26:9 regarding 3:18 18:21,23 30:3
28:8,9,11,22 34:9 38:2,7 regulate 4:19 39:22,25 41:20
purchase 4:1,2,9 29:24 48:18,22
29:25 5:14,17 15:24 R 3:1 7:12 12:12 resolve 23:15
33:18 19:4 51:9 raised 6:5 13:2 19:5,5 respect 4:9 7:7
43:10 purchased 25:2 raises 4:25 20:25 21:1 11:22 12:18
48:13,15 purchasing rancher 11:12 22:3 25:11 14:20 15:14
purpose 20:10 ranchers 14:15 regulations 24:23 28:10
40:13 43:6,7 read 46:8 30:14 38:20 43:2 45:25
51:15 46:20,22 51:3 reads 46:5 53:5 50:10 51:24
51:6 52:6 real 16:14 regulatory 43:6 Respondent
19:17 15:8,9 rely 47:16 Respondents
12:10,11,24 42:20,23 43:3 separately 26:11 21:4 25:4
50:20 22:16 44:1,6,25 series 16:21 31:15 32:5
12:2 saying 8:4 15:9 50:2,7 49:11 53:6,7 slaughtered
17:15 16:10 33:24 second 36:25 53:14 7:14 9:2,20
26:20 37:17,24 39:4 46:5 sets 3:22 16:17 18:13
28:19 40:24 41:3,8 Secretary 17:11 setting 47:4,22 29:23 30:1,5
31:25 42:19,25 44:25 17:18 19:21,23 48:14 49:10 30:12,15 31:14
39:12 says 6:9,24 20:8 21:2,18 Seventh 8:2,8 32:5 38:21
42:1 12:20 17:1,1,9 21:21 23:11 10:18 37:22 40:4,6,25
19:12 21:19 39:11 43:15,22 severability 45:14 48:9
13:7,13 41:2,4,10,11 50:3 53:1,9 sharp 30:18,19 5:18 6:10,18
27:18 41:17,19 42:1 Secretary's sheep 52:15 7:9 8:14,16
32:9,20 45:24 43:19 44:9 shepherded 10:3,21,25
41:7 Scalia 4:1,6,7,22 46:14 47:3 11:10 11:5,6,22
52:13 5:9,16 10:5,8 53:7 ship 11:13,17 12:13 13:23
54:17 10:12 11:11,16 section 7:15 12:1 14:15,23 15:10,13,17,23
11:24 25:12,16 9:12 12:20 short 14:10 16:1,12,22
31:4,8,22 34:1 53:2,2,3,10 showing 31:19 20:2,7,8 21:2,8
Scalia's 26:9 44:15,16 45:19 simple 34:9,25 44:7 50:14
53:15 scope 4:17 7:10 seeking 20:24 35:2 51:25 53:13,21
12:24 seeks 27:24 simply 22:14 slaughterhouses
6:8,9,13,15 35:6,7,11 16:1 41:1,8,9 23:13,15,17 52:19
12:16,18 36:17,18,20 41:13 situations 18:25 slaughtering
13:18,19 37:21,23,25 selling 15:25 skin 48:5,8 6:12 45:1
27:22 39:2,5,6,6,7 50:11 51:4,10 49:15 slightly 12:16
44:4 40:8,8,10,11 51:16 52:3 slaughter 6:24 Smith 1:22 2:10
51:10 40:18 41:23 send 27:11 6:25 8:5 9:6,16 28:2,3,5,15,22
31:7 30:22 40:19 25:7 52:11,14,16 25:23,24 26:15
32:1,14 specified 37:1 steps 6:18,20 symptom 8:20 26:15 27:13,20
34:5 43:16 44:9 25:7 system 33:12,14 27:23 38:22
36:2,21 specifies 39:17 STEVEN 1:16 33:14,15,19,20 45:21 46:15,21
38:7 spot 26:5 2:3,13 3:7 33:25 34:2,4,6 49:2 51:1,17
stamped 13:22 52:23 36:1 37:5,8,15 53:24
41:6 standard 20:12 stockyards 20:1 45:17 48:19,22 thinking 24:6
42:16 22:14 stop 17:1,22 thought 12:9
43:1,14 standards 23:23 52:4 T 24:3,7 29:5
45:4,13 48:7 54:7 strange 8:25 T 2:1,1 48:6
47:11,14 started 11:22 strong 51:8 take 24:10 29:7 three 24:1,2
48:2,11 starting 44:3 stuff 49:20 33:16 37:18 thrown 11:9
49:1,4 starts 4:17 subject 7:8 taken 23:19 time 14:16 18:3
51:6 State 8:4,9,22 25:11 42:4,6 takes 51:14 36:11
52:15,20 9:9 10:4 11:12 42:14,15,17 talking 41:15,18 title 5:5 16:5,11
30:20 17:2,3,6,14,23 54:23 target 5:23 told 49:19
38:21 18:14,21 19:12 subparagraph tell 6:7 10:20 touch 32:18
20:5,17,21,25 50:25 15:4,5,13,20 traditionally
44:6 21:1,6,12 22:1 subsection 7:15 16:21 18:14 47:24
22:17,19,24,25 suitable 20:12 26:24 11:4 19:22
6:3,7 28:7,8,11 33:5 supporting 1:20 39:16 40:13 12:5 14:4,9,18
7:3,5,11 37:17,22,24 2:8 18:8 Thank 18:4 19:17,20 20:15
16:9 38:3,5 39:13 suppose 24:1,3,6 27:25 28:1 transported
35:14 41:1,4,16 27:4 37:16 52:21,25 54:17 11:7 19:16
43:5,23 47:25 48:1 48:2 50:18 54:19 treat 26:10
53:11,13 54:2 supposed 16:23 theme 27:10 treated 51:16,17
2:7 8:13 18:7 27:6 38:6 therefor 43:18 treatment 3:12
39:17 41:11 sure 17:5 37:2 21:8 23:1 45:1 29:17,19,21
21:7 SUSAN 1:22 things 24:4 25:4 52:10 54:7
statute 11:25 35:16,19 5:22 6:8,17 truck 11:8 14:22
10:2 25:17 36:18,18 swine 7:25 10:23 13:12,15,16 17:22 18:18,19
37:23,25 38:6 10:24,25 11:2 14:19,22,23 21:13
47:22 14:7 36:16 17:13 18:25 17:12 19:22
19:22 step 6:16,19,20 38:11 44:4,13 23:15,25 24:16 true 8:18 15:15
U.S 30:10,10 5:20 6:1,5,15 Young 10:17 6100 53:8
V 11:2,15,19 10-224 1:5 3:4
51:23 v 1:5 3:5 12:3,15 13:12 10:04 1:14 3:2 9
28:24 variations 27:10 17:8,24 52:22 11:04 54:22
30:1,13 various 38:4 52:23,25 54:19 18 2:8
32:16 vast 26:6 went 50:24 1958 54:9
veterinarian weren't 4:13 1978 54:7
veterinarians we're 16:10 2
46:9,9 views 51:17 35:12 41:15,18 2011 1:10
49:24 violated 33:5 42:1,3,4 44:2,3 21 7:15 12:20
W 48:8,13 49:6,9 220,000 14:7
36:5
29:14 walk 15:6 47:10 302.3 53:6
44:14
37:3 want 22:8 26:13 win 43:13 309.1(b) 19:24
27:2,24 withdrawing 4 52:22
440,000 14:8
24:24 49:6
33:1
44:16 1:19 word 6:16 24:3 5
51:16 41:3,19
8:22,23 11:5 26:21 6 9:10
15:11,11,12 53:14,15,15,21 602 37:1 43:21
18:7 51:16 wouldn't 8:10 603 32:1 53:2
11:12,17 Wednesday 26:5 603(b) 9:12
1:10 write 26:10 54:12
21:3 21:7 X 610 32:1 44:18
12:20
