IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 10-382
JICARILLA APACHE NATION :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, April 20, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Petitioner.
STEVEN D. GORDON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
STEVEN D. GORDON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 48
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument today in case 10-382, United States v.
Jicarilla Apache Nation.
Mr. Shah.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PRATIK A. SHAH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SHAH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Relying on common law trust principles
applicable to private fiduciaries, the Federal Circuit
imposed on the United States a duty to disclose
attorney-client privileged communications to an Indian
tribe. That abrogation of the privilege should be
reversed for at least three reasons.
First, reflecting the sovereign nature of
the United States function, the Indian trust context
lacks the factors essential to recognition of a private
trust fiduciary exception. Unlike in a private trust,
government attorneys and other Federal officials owe an
exclusive duty of loyalty to the United States, not to
the beneficiary. The government pays the cost of trust
administration out of appropriated funds, not out of the
trust corpus. The government, not the trust, owns the
resulting record, and the release of such governmental
record, including to a tribe or individual Indian, is
governed by specific statutes and regulations as well as
the Freedom of Information Act, not the common law.
Second, the decision below conflicts with
this Court's precedents that distinguish the United
States from a private trustee and that reject
enforcement of duties governing the administration of
Indian property that are not set forth by specific
statute or regulation.
The fiduciary exception to the
attorney-client privilege is premised on a private
trustee's general common law duty to disclose trust
information, but no statute or regulation imposes such a
duty on the United States.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, all of the
statutes relating to these funds use the word "trust."
Not one statute defines trust and says in any way this
is not a fiduciary relationship. To the contrary, in
fact, most of the statutes require what would be
consistent with fiduciary obligations, and at least one
of them that you rely on says "but not limited to."
So the issue before us doesn't involve a
competing sovereign interest by the U.S. You've
conceded that in your cert petition. The circuit below
said this is not a case where there is an independent
sovereign issue governing the U.S. activities. Just
explain to me what's the rationale that would permit a
trustee of a trust fund to withhold from the beneficiary
the kinds of documents that relate to the management of
the fund? If the funds exist for the benefit of the
Indian tribe, why aren't they entitled to management
documents?
MR. SHAH: Okay -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the part that
doesn't make -- that you're not explaining.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Shah, you might want
to make your third point. You said you had three points
preliminarily, so why don't you make your third point
and then respond to the question.
MR. SHAH: Sure, Your Honor. The third
point is that the Federal Circuit's decision poses
serious practical problems for the government because
the general common law duty to disclose which undergirds
the fiduciary exception extends to all trust information
without regard to the existence of litigation; excepting
it implies a broad and burdensome disclosure obligation.
For example, there are over 300,000 individual account
holders, individual Indian account holders on top of the
tribal, tribal account holders. If this Court were to
accept the fiduciary exception and thereby ratify the
underlying rationale, presumably then any one of those
or all of those 300-plus thousand individual account
holders could simply call up the Interior Department and
request all related trust records outside of the
existing statutory and regulatory regime.
Now, Justice Sotomayor, let me turn back to
your set of questions, and let me start with the first
point that you made, which is the statutes here use the
term trust; why doesn't that connote some sort of broad
fiduciary relationship? This Court has made clear in
its precedents, and it dates back to the Mitchell 1, the
first decision in Mitchell case, where Congress's use of
the term "trust," the Court said, does not imply the
full gamut of common law fiduciary obligations.
The dissent made precisely -- the dissent in
Mitchell made precisely the argument that you're
sketching out here, which is when Congress uses a term
like trust, we would naturally assume that it implies
fiduciary obligations. The majority in Mitchell
rejected that notion, and in fact in Mitchell 2 in the
Navajo Nation decisions, the Court has continued to
reject that proposition. But more -- more than as a
matter of precedent I think that makes -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But in both -- in all of
those cases, counsel, it was a limitation related to
competing interests, meaning it was recognizing that
there are potentially moments in which an attorney is
acting both in the interest of the government and in the
interest of the tribe.
MR. SHAH: Justice Sotomayor, with respect,
there is no competing interest that I'm aware of that
were mentioned in -- in the Mitchell decisions, Mitchell
1, Mitchell 2, or even the Navajo Nation decision.
Those were simply -- in Mitchell 1 it was the Indian
General Allotment Act, which said that the United States
"shall hold in trust" land for the benefit of the
Indians. The argument made by the tribe in that case
and by the dissenters in the Court was when the Court
said you shall hold the land in trust, that implies
certain management and other responsibilities for
resources related to that land. This Court said no,
when Congress uses the term "trust" in the Indian
context, that there must be specific statutory
regulatory duties that the Court sets out. Let me
explain -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that was a
jurisdictional question, not a question with respect
to -- to the -- to the obligation. You're not seriously
suggesting that if you're a trustee of an Indian fund
that you can breach your fiduciary duty by simply not
exercising care in your investment strategies. So some
form of -- of duty exists.
MR. SHAH: Sure, and let me -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- from the common law,
and the common law has to define that.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I agree
everything up to the point when you said we go to the
common law. Of course there would be in this context
some enforceable duties with respect to investment of
the funds held in trust, and that's because the relevant
statutes, section 161a and 162a, set forth specific
investment duties that the government must comply with.
Now, as to your other point, that Mitchell 1 and the
Navajo Nation -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so why would, if it
imposes those duties, protect you from disclosing items
that might -- attorney confidences that go to that very
act, the very act of investing in the way, even under
your definition, that the trust requires you to?
MR. SHAH: A couple responses, Your Honor.
The -- the two statutes that you're talking about, 161a
and 162a, set forth specific investment duties. They
don't say anything about disclosure. The 1994 Act does
set forth some disclosure obligations, but they are
extremely discrete. There are essentially two
disclosure obligations that all of these statutes
together impose. The -- the United States must provide
an account statement, a quarterly account statement; and
the United States must provide the -- the Indian tribes
and individual Indians an annual audit. That is the
extent of disclosure obligations that Congress has set
forth and that the Interior Department by regulation has
implemented.
Now, to the -- to the extent that your
question suggests that the tribes may need more in order
to enforce those enforcement duties, I think the -- the
account statements and the annual audit goes a long way
towards suggesting that if there is a problem, then the
tribe may want to try to enforce those duties.
The other point I would make is, although
the legally enforceable duties under this Court's
decisions in Mitchell and Navajo Nation are those set
forth by statute and regulation, that doesn't mean the
Interior Department doesn't have discretion to provide
more information. And in fact, in practice, the
Interior Department does provide a much broader swath of
information to the Indian tribes regarding these
accounts than the two discrete pieces of information
that the statutes set forth.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you agree that the -- do
you agree that the fiduciary exception is well
established as a general matter?
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, the United States
does not contest the existence of a fiduciary exception
in certain private trust contexts where the criteria for
that exception are satisfied. So the answer is no, we
don't, we don't dispute the existence in certain
contexts under certain circumstances of a fiduciary
exception.
JUSTICE ALITO: So if this cause arose in a
different context with a different trustee, the position
of the United States would be that under Rule 501 of the
Federal Rules of Evidence there is a fiduciary exception
to the attorney-client privilege?
MR. SHAH: Yes, Your Honor. It would depend
on the circumstances. For example, if it were a private
trust and the factors that -- in which the courts, the
old English cases, for example, have recognized where
the fiduciary exception applies, that is the information
is sought solely for the benefit of the beneficiary, the
expenses for that legal advice are paid out of the trust
corpus, and as a result of that, the resulting legal
advice and the resulting records belong to the trust
corpus. All of those things give right, as the old
English cases say, give right to a common law right of
access for the beneficiary to access those.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Shah, you don't have
to take a position on that, because you don't represent
a private trustee. And the government can accept
arguendo that there would be such a relationship, but I
don't think you have to defend it.
MR. SHAH: Absolutely, the Court need not
decide that question in order to reach the question.
The Court can assume it arguendo and then go forward. I
think the critical point here is, though, that all of
the factors that underlie that -- that exception in the
private trustee concept are absent here. Here the
government is acting out of its own interest. It is
paying for the legal advice out of congressional
appropriations. The government owns the records at
issue by virtue of the Federal Records Act, by virtue of
Interior Department regulations, which are cited in the
back of our brief make very clear that the government
owns these records, and because they are governmental
records their disclosure is not governed by the common
law. There is a highly -
JUSTICE ALITO: The thrust of what -- my
understanding of the thrust of what Justice Sotomayor
was asking is something like the following: It's easy
to understand how there can be competing government
interests when you're talking about some, the management
of lands, things of that nature. But when you're just
talking about managing funds, what competing interests
can there be in practical terms? If you assume arguendo
that this exception applies to a private trustee, why
should it not apply to the government in practical
terms?
MR. SHAH: Sure. Let me provide two
responses, Justice Alito. First, I think as a formal
position I don't think our position turns, as a formal
matter, on the existence of a specific competing duty.
I think such a rule would overlook the ways in which the
U.S. inherently, United States inherently differs from a
private trustee. And I think that's especially true in
the light of the complex multifaceted ways in which the
government interacts with Indians and Indian tribes.
Those sovereign obligations extend to law -- providing
law enforcement, educational duties, health services.
One subset of those duties are the type of trust
responsibilities at issue in this case.
Now, to be more concrete, I think, even
putting aside that larger framework which may create
tensions between the United States and with -- and the
Indian tribes in certain circumstances, I think even in
the trust fund, purely in the trust fund context that
we're talking about, there could be at least tensions
that arise.
For example, the D.C. Circuit in the Cobell
case when it talked about the accounting obligation that
it imposed on the government, it made clear that it's
not the same accounting obligation that would apply at
common law. And the reason the D.C. Circuit gave was
because the United States would be taking that -
performing that obligation at the expense of taxpayers.
There are budgetary constraints that the United States
must take into consideration as a sovereign. Maybe
that's not a specific competing obligation in the formal
sense, but I think it's -- it's a factor that
distinguishes the United States from a private
fiduciary.
Also, there are -- for example in our brief
we discuss one of, just as an example, one of the
documents at issue in this case, which involves a
judgment by a tribal court seeking to attach funds from
an individual Indian money account. The United States
acts as a trustee with respect to that individual -
Indian account. It may be the case that the United
States consistent with its fiduciary obligations in that
sense could simply pay out the judgment, but I think
there would be room for the United States to take a
closer look at the judgment, to make sure that it
complies with, for example, the Indian Civil Rights Act
or basic due process -
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose we have the Union
Trust Company, a private company that has 5,000 trust
accounts. One day the president of the company says to
the lawyer: Mr. Smith's account is in a special
situation. Will you please look into what we should do
for him as trustee? There's no implication for any
other account. There's no threat of litigation. I just
want to know what we're supposed to do. Now, I take it
the document that is subsequently written would be open
for Mr. Smith to get; is that right?
MR. SHAH: Yes, Your Honor. We do not -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, okay. Now, why should
the government be treated differently were the situation
identical to what I just proposed?
MR. SHAH: I think the response is, Your
Honor, is that the situation will never be identical to
the hypothetical you posed because the government
inherently differs, and let me set out -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But this argument,
frankly, would be -- we wouldn't have any need for 501,
because if as an evidentiary rule the government is
always different, then there is no situation in which
fiduciary duties in common law would ever exist.
MR. SHAH: To be clear, Justice Sotomayor,
the government is not arguing that no common law
exception to the attorney-client privilege can apply to
the government or that Federal Rule 501, Federal Rule of
Evidence 501 is otherwise inapplicable. We're making a
much more limited argument that this particular common
law fiduciary exception is not applicable to the
government, and that is because the premise of that
fiduciary exception does not apply.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there -- is there any
greater value to a fiduciary duty than to manage the
account for the benefit of the beneficiary? That's the
very essence of what a trust means, and so I'm having a
hard time understanding not a competing interest
situation where you're addressing a different statutory
requirement, but merely -- and that's what this case was
presented as, merely the management of the trust. So
what you're, it seems to me, you're arguing is there is
no duty. You're saying it's all defined by statute
only, but you're rendering -- there's no need to use the
word "trust" because it wouldn't be a trust.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I don't think
that those two things are inconsistent. The fact that
we don't look to the common law to fill in all of the
duties doesn't mean that the government doesn't have
duties in this context. It has very specific duties, to
invest the funds properly, to invest the funds as set
forth in the statutes. What this Court has said could
not be done is to look at the general common law to
create obligations on the government.
JUSTICE BREYER: I would like to get an
answer to my question.
MR. SHAH: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: My question, to go back to
it, was imagine that the government has a thousand trust
accounts for a thousand tribes.
MR. SHAH: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: And imagine that several of
them consist of nothing more than $500,000 in cash.
MR. SHAH: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: And one day the Secretary
of the Interior says to a lawyer: I fear there is kind
of a difficult fiduciary problem arising into account
number 302, which is owned by such and such tribe.
There is no threat of litigation. As far as I can tell,
the answer to this will have no implication for anything
else in the government. Will you please look at it and
give me a memo what to do?
Now, why should that memo not be given to
the lawyer for the tribe if in the identical case of the
Union Trust Company you would give the lawyer -- the
memo to the beneficiary?
MR. SHAH: A couple of reasons, Your Honor.
First, as this Court recognized, starting back in 1912
in the Heckman case, and reiterated in the Candelaria
and Minnesota cases after that, is that the United
States is not acting simply out of the beneficiary's
interests.
So in the hypothetical, the original
hypothetical that you posed in the corporation or the
bank that was acting as a trustee, there the trustee is
simply acting out of its fiduciary obligation solely to
benefit the beneficiary. That is not how the
governments work. As this Court made clear, the
government is acting not out of the beneficiary's
interests, it is acting out of its own sovereign
interest in managing the statutes and regulations that
govern the administration of Indian property. That's a
fundamental difference.
JUSTICE BREYER: You're saying, one, we're
not really a trustee totally?
MR. SHAH: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Now, if we
treated -- the courts treated you as a trustee really
and totally -
MR. SHAH: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- in this very limited
situation I described, what harm would befall the
government?
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, we would still
win, and here's why. The factors that -- even assuming
a common law trustee, the fiduciary exception doesn't
apply automatically at all common law trustees. There's
several things that underlie that fiduciary exception.
One, the -- the -- the advice sought is
typically paid for out of the trust corpus, and as a
result of that fact, the trust itself owns the records.
Those are the principal two factors that the cases
recognizing a fiduciary exception rely upon to create a
common law right of access of the beneficiary to such
records.
None of those factors are present here. The
government pays for these -- for -- for the cost of
administration, including legal advice, out of
congressionally appropriated funds. The records
resulting from that advice belonged to the government.
The government owns those records, both as a matter of
statute and regulation. And the disclosure of those
records is subject to a highly reticulated regime.
There are statutes, there is regulations, there is the
Freedom of Information Act. All of that would be
bypassed if this Court were to accept the fiduciary
exception in this context.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Shah -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Other than the time and
expense of going through voluminous records, which is
obvious, is there any other harm to the government in
being required to show that there's a competing interest
that makes disclosure unnecessary or improper?
MR. SHAH: Yes, Your Honor. As I said to
Justice Alito, it may not always be that the government
can point to a specific competing interest in the sense
that Justice Sotomayor is talking about, a competing
statutory interest. But there are inherently these
tensions, budgetary concerns, other ways in which the
United States interacts with Indian affairs.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is one -- is one of them
shielding government actors? I mean, from what you said
so far, on the one hand you recognize that it is what we
call a guardian, the guardian-ward relationship between
the United States and the tribe. But what you seem to
be suggesting is that the government has a dual focus,
and one is its guardianship relation to the tribe, but
the other is these are government actors and the
government is also interested in shielding its actors.
Is that -- is that it or is it a more
nebulous interest?
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I think it
could be more nebulous -- but -- but there -- I think
there is a real chilling concern. And I think this
dovetails into Justice Kennedy's question, that the
Interior Department, in order to properly administer, to
carry out the statutory and regulatory duties, it often
needs to seek the legal advice of -- of the lawyers in
the Interior office or in the Department of Justice. In
order to avoid the chilling the full and frank seeking
of rendering of legal advice, the same purposes -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, this is just the
general purpose behind the exception to 301, right,
the -- the exception for providing attorney's advice.
The ordinary private litigant doesn't have to show, when
he refuses to turn over attorney advice, that there's
some conflict which would make it harmful for him to
turn that over, does he?
MR. SHAH: Not as a general matter, Your
Honor. If -- if -- if we were in the private trustee
context and a court were to decide that the fiduciary
exception applied -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not in the trustee context.
I'm just talking about the normal operation.
MR. SHAH: Oh, absolutely, Your Honor. The
justifications are general in nature and there isn't an
obligation to -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and so, once you
establish that this isn't the normal trust complex, we
apply the normal Rule 301 law, and -- and that does not
require the person who declines to turn over the
information to show why it would really hurt him to turn
it over, right?
MR. SHAH: I think that's exactly correct,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How many -- how many of
these mismanagement suits are there? Do you have any
estimate?
MR. SHAH: Yes. Currently there are about
90 such pending suits, counting all of the district
courts as well as the Court of Federal Claims. And -
and -- and of course, this issue could arise in any of
those cases.
Let me get back to one of Justice
Sotomayor's questions, the -- the initial question about
the fact that the Congress has used the term "trust." I
think as a matter of precedent, both the Mitchell
decisions and the Navajo Nation decisions, I think those
are binding, controlling precedent, and the Court should
not deviate from those precedents that say a statute or
regulation must define the duty. But beyond the binding
nature of those precedents, I think they make sense from
first principles as well, and let me try to explain why.
The -- the -- the term "trust" has been used
by both Congress and the courts in a variety of ways,
often in a variety of imprecise ways, when it comes to
the relationship between the United States and Indians
and Indian tribes. Courts and Congress have used the
term when it comes to providing law enforcement, when it
comes to providing educational services, health
services, none of which are really the type of private
common law trust that we know.
And even in scenarios where there is a
discrete property interest that might bring us closer to
the common law context, this Court has used -- this
Court and Congress has recognized that "trust" can mean
a lot of different things. It can mean the type of bare
trust that was at issue in Mitchell 1, the Indian
General Allotment Act, when the trust was really simply
to avoid alienation of the land. It may mean specific
investment duties, as we have here.
But the point is that there is no "one size
fits all" trust terminology, and so that's why it makes
sense for this Court to require Congress to set forth
the specific duties and statutes, and the Interior
Department to set forth specific duties and regulations
before it implies such a sweeping obligation on the
United States.
I think it also flows from a more general
principle of a reluctance to hold the United States to
common law duties when there's an existing statutory and
regulatory regime. I think for all of those reasons,
not only as a matter of precedent, but as -- as a matter
of principle, I think the -- the -- the fiduciary
exception would -- would not apply here.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I hadn't thought about
your argument until this -- until you made it this
morning, that if there -- if -- if the tribe is correct
that it owns these documents and gets -- can get them
anytime, but the -- the -- the trial court here divided
the documents into five categories.
MR. SHAH: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: As to some of those
categories it -- it denied -- it denied production.
MR. SHAH: Yes, Your Honor, but those -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I take it did that in
the context of recognizing the attorney-client
privilege, including work product, which were the
accountant's records.
MR. SHAH: Right. As I understand it,
you're right, Justice Kennedy, that most of the
documents that the -- the trial court said the
government didn't have to produce were, as you stated,
attorney work product privileges -- privileged
documents, and those the trial -- the trial court said
that no fiduciary exception would apply to the attorney
work product privilege. And it was on that basis that
it allowed the government to withhold the documents.
If there are no further questions, I would
like to reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Shah.
MR. SHAH: Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Gordon.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN D. GORDON
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. GORDON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Jicarilla Apache Nation has sued the
government for mismanaging millions of dollars of its
trust monies. No trustee in this situation, including
the government, is entitled to withhold the legal advice
that it has received about managing the beneficiary's
money. The beneficiary is entitled to see that legal
advice, so that it can determine whether the trustee
followed the advice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's -- you don't
doubt that in this context sovereign commands would
trump trustee obligations, do you? In other words, if
Congress -
MR. GORDON: I -- I -- I do not -- I do not,
Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
MR. GORDON: The -- the notion of -- the
issue here is an issue of evidence, and it is controlled
by Federal Rule 501, which specifies that Federal courts
that resolve claims of privilege based on common law
principles. Under the common law, a trustee cannot
assert the attorney-client privilege to withhold from a
fiduciary legal advice about management of the trust.
That, I submit, is the end of the analysis.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what do you make of
the fact that the Uniform Trust Code reserves decision
on the question whether there is a fiduciary exception
to the attorney-client privilege? That seems to suggest
that as a general matter, this is not as
well-established as you seem to argue.
MR. GORDON: Your Honor, there are very -
there are a handful of States that have not recognized
the fiduciary exception, but there is no Federal circuit
that has refused to recognize it. Indeed, all of the
Federal circuits that have considered it have adopted
it, and it is recognized in both, as we stated in our
brief, the Restatement of Trusts and the Restatement of
the law Governing Lawyers.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Gordon -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Has it ever been applied,
to your knowledge, where -- where it was not the case
that the trust paid for the attorney's advice out of the
trust funds and where the trust did -- where -- where
the trust owned the papers that consisted of the
attorney's advice? Is there any case where those two
conditions or either one of them did not exist where
the -- the trust was required to turn over the
attorney's advice?
MR. GORDON: Justice Scalia, I -- I cannot
cite a specific case -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but, see, that's the
argument of the government, that the exception, the
trust exception to the extent that it exists, was based
principally upon the fact that these papers belonged to
the trust and that the attorney's advice had been paid
for by the trust, so of course the trustee is entitled
to get it.
MR. GORDON: But that's not correct, if -
if I may, Mr. Justice. If you look at the seminal
American decision, the Riggs Bank decision that's cited
in both briefs, they talk about the rationales and they
said that the first rationale is that the trustee acts
as a proxy for the beneficiary in obtaining the advice.
The second rationale is that the trustee has
a general duty to disclose relevant information to the
beneficiary. The Court mentioned that one factor that
it would look at was who had paid for the legal advice,
but it did not suggest that that was determinative, and
indeed subsequent case law has made clear that it is
not, and the Restatement says explicitly that who paid
is not the controlling factor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you don't have a single
case?
MR. GORDON: Not that I can cite right now.
But it would be -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought Riggs -- you
said Riggs was a case where the trust fund paid the
lawyer, and the Court distinguished cases where that
wasn't so, where the trustee was paying the lawyer for
the trustee's own protection, and the Court went out of
its way to say we are dealing with a case where the
lawyer is paid out of trust funds. In Riggs, the -
case, right?
MR. GORDON: Yes, Your Honor. But the issue
-- this is, I submit, letting the tail wag the dog.
What we are talking about is money that belongs to the
beneficiary. We're talking about money. We're not
talking about a bare trust. We're talking about a
full-fledged trust under Mitchell 2. Indeed, this Court
in Mitchell 2 said that trusts involving the management
of Indian money were full-fledged trusts. And in that
situation for the government to say that, while any
private fiduciary would be obliged to show to the
beneficiary the legal advice it's received when there's
an issue about whether it's fulfilled its fiduciary
duties, it's different because we've spent our
hard-earned money on these lawyers and we own the
records in issue. I mean, that doesn't make sense.
And basically as a matter of discovery,
which is where we are right now, the posture of the
case, whenever you seek discovery, in virtually all of
those circumstances the documents in issue are going to
belong to the opposing party.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, the
attorney-client privilege is policy-based and I'm
concerned about the policy implications of your
position. Our system has concluded that it works best
if people have candid advice from their lawyers, and my
concern here is if you're a lawyer -- you are a lawyer
-- and -- and you're asked for your advice by a
trustee -
MR. GORDON: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- and if you know
that that is going to be shared with the beneficiary,
you're going to give bland, mushy, hedging advice rather
than direct and candid advice to the trustee, because
it's going to be shared more widely beyond the trustee.
And that's -- that hurts not only the trustee, but also
the beneficiaries, whose trustee does not have candid
legal advice.
MR. GORDON: My response to that would be
twofold, Your Honor. The first is that that same
argument can be made for any private fiduciary, yet the
courts have felt that the more important relationship is
the relationship between the trustee and the
beneficiary, that that trumps the need for or the
desirability for private discussions between the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So how does -- I
appreciate the point, but how does a trustee get candid
legal advice? In every case, isn't the -- the lawyer -
concerning his dealings with the beneficiary, with the
trust: I don't know if I have to do this or I have to
do this.
MR. GORDON: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And it seems to me
if the -- if the information is always going to be
shared with the beneficiary, the trustee is always going
to get hedged advice.
MR. GORDON: Well, if it's never shared,
Your Honor, then it leaves it at the option of the
trustee to selectively waive the privilege when it's to
its advantage in a breach of trust suit.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No. Why can't the trustee
say: I'm going to hire my own lawyer? I'm not going to
pay this lawyer out of trust funds, so it will be my
lawyer, and his advice is only to me and serving my
interests? Why wouldn't -- why wouldn't that suffice?
MR. GORDON: I think the issue, Your Honor,
is whether that, in fact, is what the trustee is
seeking. If the trustee is seeking advice about
personal liability, then I certainly agree that the
trustee could do that. If the trustee instead is
seeking advice, regardless of who pays for it, but is
seeking legal advice about how the trustee should manage
money belonging to the beneficiary -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's always
a question of liability. If he messes up and doesn't
manage it the way he's supposed to, he will be liable.
So the distinction you draw doesn't seem to me to be a
workable one.
MR. GORDON: Well, Your Honor, I -- I submit
that the whole issue is if there is a suit for breach of
trust, which is the precondition for all of this,
whether in that circumstance the trustee is obliged to
produce the legal advice that it has received so the
beneficiary can be -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The trustee cannot hire his
own lawyer, you're saying. So long as he's a trustee,
he cannot hire his own lawyer to get advice on how to
manage the trust in a way that will avoid his liability.
He just can't do it, right? Trustees can't -
MR. GORDON: Yes, Your Honor, that's the
position. And that puts the government in no different
position than private beneficiaries or ERISA
beneficiaries or any other sorts of beneficiaries.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's your best case that
you have on that in the private trustee context? I had
thought your answer was going to be that in that case,
the fact that the payment is made by the trustee out of
the trustee's own funds and not out of the trust funds
might be dispositive and might give him the privilege.
But you -- you seem to say, in answer to the questions
from the Court, that, other than this distinction you
make between what the personal liability is and how he
ought to manage the trust, which I think is a murky
distinction, that the documents have to be disclosed.
What's your best case for that?
MR. GORDON: Justice Kennedy, let me respond
to that. And I agree that who is paying for it -- if
the trustee is paying for it out of his own or her own
pocket, that is a factor that certainly should be looked
at and would be entitled to -- to some weight in terms
of what the purpose of the advice was for; but
ultimately the issue is whether the trustee is seeking
to protect personal interests, protect against a claim
of liability, for example, or whether is -- the trustee
is looking for advice about how to manage the
beneficiary's money.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So I'm the trustee,
and I say I would like legal advice as to whether I
should renegotiate this lease with the government.
MR. GORDON: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, I want that
advice so I manage the trust correctly, and I'm
concerned if I don't manage the trust correctly I'm
going to be sued. Now is the document from the lawyer
responding to that inquiry privileged or not?
MR. GORDON: I think, Your Honor, that if it
focuses on how to manage it properly, then -- and it's
prospective, then I think that the -- it -- it is not
privileged. If, instead, you posit, you know, this is
what I did and I'm concerned I may have screwed up, do
you think I'm liable, then I think a different answer
may obtain.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if he says this
is what I did and I might be liable, it's privileged.
If he says this is what I'm going to do -
MR. GORDON: Please tell me what to do, yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Which means you can't get
preventative advice, which is one of the most important
kinds of advice an attorney can give.
MR. GORDON: Well, Your Honor, I agree
preventative advice is the most -- is among the most
important one can give. But why should the government
be in a different position with regard to this than the
private beneficiary?
JUSTICE BREYER: I have a question on that
particular point, and there may be an obvious answer to
this which I just couldn't find. But if the lawyer is
in the government and he writes a memo, then -- and if
it's available to a litigant who litigates against the
government, as it would be here, then why isn't it
available to the entire world via the Freedom of
Information Act?
MR. GORDON: Your Honor, the Court said in
the Sears decision, which is the cited in our brief -- I
believe it's in footnote 16 -- that citizens' access
rights under FOIA are not necessarily coextensive
with -
JUSTICE BREYER: That's certainly true,
they're not. But I just wonder, what is it in FOIA that
would make this not available to the world?
MR. GORDON: That, Your Honor, and also the
fundamental -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that just -- that
just says it may or may not be coextensive. Reading the
statute, it says you have to make all inter- agency or
all memos available of a certain type, which I think
this would fall into. Then exception 5 protects, among
other things, attorney-client memos that are privileged
because they're inter-agency or intra-agency memos that
would not be available by law to a party other than an
agency in litigation.
MR. GORDON: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, they are available if
you win. And so, if you win that exception doesn't seem
to apply. And if it doesn't seem to apply, that's what
was -- then the whole world can get this memo. And what
I'm wondering is there must -- either there is a very
obvious answer to that, which there could be, or there
isn't. If there is an obvious answer, that's the end of
it.
MR. GORDON: I would say -
JUSTICE BREYER: If there isn't an obvious
answer, I'll have to go away and worry about it.
MR. GORDON: I would say, Your Honor, that
this Court's decision in Julian, where it said that
different classes of persons may have different rights
under FOIA -- the right we are talking about here is the
right of the beneficiaries. We're not talking about the
citizen's right to see how Indian trust monies have been
managed.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know you don't want that,
and what I'm looking is how you prevent that.
MR. GORDON: But I believe that under the
precedent in Julian, that it would be that what we're
talking about here is access to Indians whose money is
being managed.
JUSTICE ALITO: If we assume for the sake of
argument that a private trustee may, using the private
trustee's own fund, hire an attorney to obtain
prospective advice about liability, does that doom your
argument here for the reason that the government claims
it has no ability to set up a system like this, to have
some attorneys in the solicitor's office provide advice
regarding the management of the funds and other
attorneys in the solicitor's office provide advice
regarding -- regarding the possibility of prospective
liability in light of all of these suits that you
mentioned?
MR. GORDON: Well, Your Honor, again I come
back that the trustee is entitled where the issue is
liability, rather than how to manage the money. The -
that gets into an area that would not be subject to the
fiduciary exceptions. So if that is the focus of the
advice, a private beneficiary wouldn't have to give up
that advice and we don't contend that the government
should, either. But where, as here, all of the
documents are general documents that deal generally with
how to manage Indian trust funds -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Again, as the Chief Justice
pointed out, that seems to me an artificial distinction.
What I ask from -- for from the attorney is advice as to
how I can manage the trust so as to avoid liability. I
mean, the -- the two are connected. You can't separate
out advice as to how to manage, how to manage the trust
from advice as to how to avoid liability. In the -- in
the context of asking, of a trustee's asking advice, the
two are the same.
MR. GORDON: Well, Your Honor, at -- at some
logical level there is a link there that can never be
severed, but I submit, respectfully, that the
government, when it's getting advice about managing
trust funds, is not really focused on its liability.
The government's liability, after all, is much more
circumscribed than private fiduciaries, in any number of
ways.
It is seeking legal advice about what is the
proper way to invest, can we do this, can we pool funds,
can we do -- you know, can we make a certain type of
investment or is it prohibited to us. And advice of
that nature is advice to which the beneficiary is
entitled.
A private beneficiary -- the beneficiaries
of private trusts are entitled, and Indians, whose money
is being managed because the government has taken on
itself by statute and said, we are going to take control
of your monies and we're going to manage them, have no
lesser right to get access to this highly relevant
information when they litigate for breach of trust.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You make a distinction,
I -- I take it, between attorney-client privilege and
work product. Initially, you were seeking both on the
theory that the tribe is in fact the client, but
apparently you are not pressing that point any more
about work product?
MR. GORDON: In fact, Your Honor, there is
some case law that says the fiduciary exception can be
applied to -- to work product. We did not press that
point in the Court of Federal Claims. We -- focused our
request for documents on attorney-client, not on work
product.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So under your theory
if there's a claim of privilege on -- on -- on the
government's behalf, presumably the district court would
conduct an in-camera review to determine whether it was
retrospective for liability or prospective for
responsibility?
MR. GORDON: Yes, Your Honor, which is
exactly what happened here. The Court of Federal Claims
reviewed all of the documents in camera and made a
document-by-document determination, which is, of course,
the standard approach when you're talking about
attorney-client privilege. It's done on a document by
document basis.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did it do -- did it do on
that basis, retrospective versus prospective?
MR. GORDON: It didn't come up, Your Honor,
because there weren't any retrospective wants.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There were no
prospective, is that -- did you -
MR. GORDON: They're all prospective, Your
Honor. They're all prospective. The -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they -- they
could be retrospective, too, right? The government
exposes itself to liability, obviously, in these areas
as well. That's the basis for your suit, right?
MR. GORDON: Yes, Your Honor.
The -- I want to pick up, I believe it was
on a comment that you made, Justice Sotomayor, when you
said that under the government's theory there would be
no need for Rule 501. And indeed, they say that it's
not enough. 501 on its face says apply common law
principles. And the government's argument is that's not
enough unless there's some other statute that requires
common law principles to be applied to.
Now, this is a neat trick. You just read
501 out of the Rules of Evidence when it comes to the
government, notwithstanding that 501 itself says it's to
be used to determine privilege claims by the government,
and that's reinforced in Federal Rule of Evidence 1101,
which specifically says that the Rules of Evidence are
to apply in the Court of Federal Claims.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose the
government as a whole has an obligation to act in the
best interests of the citizenry, right? Why doesn't the
same theory apply to any citizen?
Look, government, you're supposed to -
you're acting in a fiduciary statute -- status with
respect to me. You're supposed to be acting in my best
interests. If you're getting advice from the, you know,
Department of Justice about what to do, I'm entitled to
get that.
MR. GORDON: Your Honor, it -- I think that
that could pick up on the same distinction that the
Court has already drawn in Mitchell 1 and Mitchell 2,
between bare trust and a full-fledged trust. The
government may have a general duty to act in the
interests of all citizens. Indeed, I think we would all
agree with that. But that does not mean that the
government is engaging in the conduct of a full-fledged
trust with respect to citizens. It's not.
Its relationship to citizens day in and day
out is akin to, in fact maybe even a level below, the
bare trust relationship that was at issue in Mitchell 1.
So, we're not proposing a -- a sweeping new
rule here. It's the government that's proposing to
transform this Court's jurisprudence about Indians,
because the notion that the only enforceable obligations
it has are those set forth in statute or regulation,
were the Court to adopt that, it would be overruling its
decision in White Mountain Apache.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are there any
other -- are there any other areas in which the
government's relationship to particular groups of
citizens is that of fiduciary to beneficiary?
MR. GORDON: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What are some of
those?
MR. GORDON: Well, the -- the principal one
we could find, which is cited in our brief, is with
respect to government retirees who make voluntary
contributions to their fund, and the government's
argument here could be applied to them.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And your argument
could be applied to them?
MR. GORDON: Yes, Your Honor, and I'm happy
for it to be. I believe it should be.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if I'm a
government retiree, I have the ability to get the legal
advice that whoever it is that runs that trust gets?
MR. GORDON: Yes. I might add, Your Honor,
fortunately it's not the Bureau of Indian Affairs that
runs that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Does that happen a lot? I
mean, I -- I -- I'm not -- does that happen a lot? I
mean, are there a lot of instances where the lawyers who
work for all -- the retirement funds are huge. There
must be cases coming up all the time. And all the
advice of the lawyers is just available -
MR. GORDON: Your Honor, no, frankly it
hasn't come up that much with -- in terms of Federal
retirees. There's the Cavanaugh v. Wainstein case that
we cite in our brief which is about the only published
decision I've been able to find.
The fact of the matter, I -- I was being
humorous a moment ago, but the fact of the matter is
that the government retirement funds have been, it
appears, run quite well and there have been relatively
few claims brought against them. There's a reason that
there are a bunch of pending cases regarding Indian -
JUSTICE BREYER: I know that. I'm just
worried about the -- the attorney-client privilege is
somewhat sacred, and suddenly making everything
available to the whole public has got me worried. And I
looked at that Sears case. I didn't see anything there
that eases my concern. And then you referred to a
different case, the name of which I forgot, and I could
not find.
MR. GORDON: That's the Julian case, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that in the -
MR. GORDON: I'm sorry, it's not cited in
our brief.
JUSTICE BREYER: How am I going to find it?
I couldn't get how you spell it.
MR. GORDON: I will -- it -- 486 U.S. 1,
1988, Your Honor.
The -- there is another inconsistency in the
government's position here that I would like to
highlight for the Court, if I may. That is this: The
government relies on the common law in the first place
to say it has a privilege. There's no statute that
gives the government attorney-client privilege. So it
relies on common law saying: We have an attorney-client
privilege.
Now, that's fine under Federal Rule 501.
But the government says, while it can rely on common
law, Jicarilla cannot rely on that same common law to
establish the limits on the privilege it's claiming.
This Court described that sort of argument as "heads I
win, tails you lose," and said that it can't be right.
And I submit that it can't be right here. The -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The government is
maintaining throughout that it wears two hats. On the
one hand it is a guardian or a trustee, and on the other
hand it is the sovereign. So it's the latter, the
government's claim that it is the sovereign, that makes
the difference, it's not the -
MR. GORDON: I agree, Your Honor, that
that's their claim. But the government hasn't shown how
the fact that it is the sovereign, which we certainly
concede, makes any meaningful difference for purposes of
the issue presented here. The cases it cites establish
that the government, because it is sovereign, in some
instances has broader authority than a private trustee
would to help out the beneficiary. And I believe that
that is -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it also has broader
authority, and that's just their point, I take it, for
many other areas. The sovereign can't easily divest
itself of its responsibilities. A trustee can so
conform and shape its business that it doesn't have
conflicts. A government just can't do that.
MR. GORDON: Well, Your Honor, I agree, but
the issue of conflicting, competing interests, first of
all it arises in the private trust context and it arises
frequently. Anytime you've got a life beneficiary and a
remainderman, you've got a potential conflict between
the beneficiaries; and this issue of conflict has led to
the development of the duty of impartiality for private
trustees; and it's discussed at length in section 79 of
the Restatement.
So the notion of competing interests is not
unique to the government. The government may have some
different competing interests than a private trustee
might have. That's certainly conceivable. And if it
does, the existence of a specific competing interest may
affect whether the action that the government takes is
or is not a breach of trust.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We're not talking here
about competing interests. I mean, the example you give
of -- of the life beneficiary and the remainderman,
those are interests of the beneficiaries that conflict.
MR. GORDON: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We're talking here about an
interest of the trustee that conflicts with what he is
supposed to do, with respect to the person who is the
beneficiary of the trust. That -- that's a totally
different situation.
MR. GORDON: Well, Your Honor, I submit that
it's not totally -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And ordinarily if there is
that kind of a conflict where the trustee has a personal
conflict, he has to step down as trustee. You can't
continue to be trustee when you -- your own financial
interests, for example, are against the financial
interests of the beneficiary; right?
MR. GORDON: Well, Your Honor, you're
positing that the trustee has a personal interest that's
adverse to the beneficiary.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what the government
asserts: I have other duties as government besides my
duties to the -- to these Indians.
MR. GORDON: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And sometimes those duties
conflict with my duties to the Indians.
MR. GORDON: Those are competing
responsibilities. I agree that the government may have
that, and that may affect whether the decision that they
ultimately make is or is not an appropriate decision.
But it does not affect their duty to disclose as a
matter of evidence the legal advice that they use to
make that judgment. The beneficiary, when the
beneficiary's money is at stake, is entitled to see what
advice the government acted on in dealing with its
money.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is this true regardless of
the fact that the government may have a very powerful
interest in seeking neutral, independent advice from an
attorney, and that were you to prevail that advice would
become watered down?
MR. GORDON: Yes, Your Honor. I don't -- I
submit that the ultimate balancing of interests here is
the same as it is for a private fiduciary. There is no
-- the Court -- we urge the Court to affirm that under
Rule 501 Indian tribes are entitled to the same evidence
as other trust beneficiaries about how their money was
managed. That is our request of this Court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The trustee I guess
is -- is broadly conceived of as the government?
MR. GORDON: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, isn't the
lawyer working for the trustee then a trustee too, an
employee of the trustee?
MR. GORDON: I think that may in a
theoretical sense be true, Your Honor. But practically
speaking, there's a difference between the BIA officials
who are acting as the trustee and the attorneys who are
advising the trustee. Our claim is against the trustee.
It's not against the attorneys. We are not seeking to
impose any professional responsibilities on the
government attorneys.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Gordon.
MR. GORDON: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Shah, you have 4
minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PRATIK A. SHAH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, if I can just make
three -- three points on rebuttal.
The first is with respect to Federal Rule of
Evidence 501. The government is not implementing any
trick here. This is not a "heads you win, tails you
lose" type situation. Our argument is simple. We look
to -- we invoke a valid attorney-client privilege. The
other side invokes a common law exception to that
privilege. Our argument is not that no common law
exception is applicable to the government. It's simply
that the basis for this common law exception is not
applicable, so the exception should not be applicable.
It's a very straightforward argument.
The second point I would like to make is in
response to the contention that we have a full-fledged
trust here as opposed to a bare trust in Mitchell. I'm
not quite sure what "a full-fledged trust" means in the
Indian trust context. Certainly there's specific
investment-related duties that the statute sets forth
with respect to trust funds, but this Court has made
clear in -- in Mitchell and reiterated in the Navajo
Nation decision that it's not enough for the statute to
simply set forth the statutory duties, but it must
define, and this is a quote, "define the contours of
those duties."
The statutes at issue, section 161a, 162a,
do nothing of the sort. They don't even set out a
general disclosure obligation, let alone the contours of
any such disclosure obligation. But even if we were to
disregard this Court's precedents in Mitchell and in
Navajo Nation, and we were to resort to the common law
to flesh out the nature of the responsibilities, again
there's nothing from the discrete investment obligations
that are set forth in those statutes that would lead to
a general disclosure obligation, let alone an intrusive
obligation to disclose the government's attorney-client
communications.
And there's good reasons to think that
Congress did not apply such an obligation when it has
set forth a fairly reticulated statutory and regulatory
regime governing disclosures, and with respect to other
statutes. For example, the 1982 Indian Claims
Limitation Act specifically addressed privileged versus
nonprivileged information.
The last point I would make goes to the
general duty to disclose. Whether that's contingent
simply on payment, ownership or other factors. While it
may not be the case that the payment is the sole factor,
it's certainly an important factor, and I think as my
friend responded in response to Justice Kennedy, if in
fact the private trustee is paying for the legal advice
on their own, that's going to be a significant
consideration as to whether the beneficiary can get it.
And as Justice Scalia pointed out, the lines
are not always going to be clear between trust
administration advice and liability advice. In fact,
they're often going to run into one another.
Beyond payment, I think the even more
important factor here is the ownership of the records.
While payment is indicative of ownership, when we're
talking about the government context, payment is not the
only reason why we say that the government owns the
records that result from legal advice or any other trust
administration facet. That's set forth by statute and
regulation, the Federal Records Act, and the Interior
Department regulations that are set forth in the
appendix of the brief. The reason why I think -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If I -- if I pay -
if I pay a lawyer to prepare a document for me, is
that -- I do own that document or does the lawyer?
MR. SHAH: I think as a general -- I think
as a general matter, one would think that the client
would -- it would belong to the client, at least in the
sense that the client would have full access to that
document.
And I think that's a fundamental distinction
here, that we're not -- because the -- these are
governmental records, they're subject to the statutory
and regulatory regime that governs disclosure of
government documents, either specific disclosure
obligations set forth by Congress, Interior Department
regulation or the more general Freedom of Information
Act.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But aren't you
confusing, just following up on the Chief Justice's,
ownership with access? FOIA itself doesn't make these
records less -- the government doesn't own them less
merely because FOIA requires them to share it with other
people. So the ownership interest is not the defining
legal obligation.
MR. SHAH: You're absolutely correct. The
fact that they're accessible by FOIA does not -- does
not change the government's ownership of those records,
but the fact that Congress is able to set forth a scheme
like FOIA is turned on the fact that these are
government records that are owned by the government.
Because they're government records, it's
Congress and it's the Interior Department that decides
when to disclose them and under what circumstances to
disclose them. The tribe's rule here would eviscerate
that very reticulated statutory and regulatory regime.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Shah,
and Mr. Gordon.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:06 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
52:16 18:21 50:15,23 22:22 arguendo 11:6 49:20
51:25 adverse 46:10 annual 9:6,13 2:2,5,8 3:4,7 automatically
11:15 18:12,21 16:23 31:22 15:8 23:15 available 33:25
34:6 20:17,19 24:24 35:4,5,9 29:17 35:24 34:24 42:9,24
37:23 25:2,3,17 26:11 anytime 23:18 36:2 39:18 avoid 20:13
26:14,17,24 45:2 41:18,19 43:25 22:23 31:14
6:3 9:4,4 29:24 30:7,15 apparently 38:4 arising 16:20 a.m 1:13 3:2
13:21,23 30:19,22,23 APPEARANC... arose 10:11 52:15
15:14 31:9,13 32:12 1:14 artificial 36:21
appears 42:18 aside 12:23 B
appendix 51:1 asked 29:4 back 6:7,12
applicable 3:12 asking 11:25 11:19 16:11
37:1,2 15:9 48:19,21 37:2,2 17:6 21:22
48:21 assert 25:16 36:11
41:25 applied 20:25 asserts 46:12 balancing 47:8
46:22,25 26:9 38:8 39:20 Assistant 1:15 bank 17:13 27:4
16:13
50:10,15 41:18,20 assume 6:19 bare 22:20 28:7
applies 10:20 11:10 12:5 40:16,24 48:25
11:17
19:3 22:22
40:4,17
15:5,11 18:10 attach 13:20 basic 14:4
51:17
35:1,1 39:17 20:19 24:7,9 basis 24:10
40:8,9
32:8 46:20 48:2 2:4,7,10 3:8
40:19 appropriated attorney's 20:17 24:18 38:14
46:18 3:24 18:22 26:11,14,17,24 48:9
51:7 42:4,21 43:6,9 categories 23:19 40:18,21,22 company 14:6,6
26:6 34:5 41:15 cause 10:11 citizen's 35:15 competing 4:24
31:18,19 broad 5:22 6:10 certain 7:16 10:6 47:24 44:25 45:8,10
35:14 broader 9:22 10:8,9 12:25 claiming 43:24 45:12,16 46:17
45:4,18 44:15,18 34:17 37:14 claims 21:19 complex 12:16
broadly 47:15 certainly 30:20 25:14 36:2 38:9 21:7
10:21 11:2 budgetary 13:11 44:11 45:11 40:2 42:19 50:1 comply 8:13
17:4,15 19:17 49:2 50:8 classes 35:12 concede 44:12
25:1 27:7 bunch 42:20 change 52:2 clear 6:11 11:19 conceded 4:25
28:6,13 burdensome Chief 3:3,9 24:14 13:6 15:3 17:16 conceivable
30:6 5:22 24:16,19 25:4,9 27:13 49:5 45:11
31:10 Bureau 42:2 25:10 28:23 50:14 conceived 47:15
36:15 business 44:22 29:7,22 30:4,25 client 38:3 51:6,7 concept 11:13
41:10 bypassed 19:4 32:18,22 33:9 51:8 concern 20:7
45:2,17 36:20 38:12 closer 14:2 22:17 29:3 43:1
46:7,10 C 39:8 40:3 41:7 Cobell 13:4 concerned 28:25
50:12 C 2:1 3:1 41:12,19,23 Code 25:20 32:24 33:6
24:25 camera 38:20 51:2,19 52:12 34:15 concerns 19:17
46:24 Candelaria 17:7 chilling 20:7,13 come 36:10 39:2 concluded 29:1
15:14 29:13,23 13:4,8 26:2 comes 22:9,12 conditions 26:15
care 8:2 circuits 26:4 22:13 39:22 conduct 38:15
40:5,9 case 3:4 5:1 6:13 circumscribed commands 25:5 confidences 8:18
50:17 13:19,23 15:18 circumstance common 3:11 4:4 45:3,4,18 46:3
37:24 31:20,22 32:6 cite 26:19 27:18 18:17 22:15,18 conform 44:22
38:7 42:12,25 42:13 23:9 25:14,15 confusing 51:19
16:8,11 52:14,15 34:5 41:15 43:7 43:19,22,23 7:18 9:7 21:24
17:22 cases 7:1 10:19 cites 44:13 48:17,18,20 22:8,11,19 23:2
18:4 11:1 17:8 18:15 citizen 40:6 49:15 25:7 49:23
34:9,14 21:21 27:22 citizenry 40:5 communications 51:15 52:3,7
35:8,17 42:8,20 44:13 citizens 34:6 3:14 49:21 congressional
51:25 46:25 different 10:12 27:22
32:24 decide 11:9 22:20 28:15 13:15
50:12 couple 8:21 17:5 27:4,4 34:5 differs 12:14 document 14:13
7:14,14,17,20 7:8 9:18 22:1,1 4:13 5:19 27:9 24:5,8,11 28:21
16:5 17:6,16 defend 11:7 50:5 52:8,9 38:10,20 51:14
10:12 13:1 27:22,24 28:8 defining 51:23 11:21 18:25 doom 36:1
19:5 20:24 32:2 34:4 38:9 definition 8:20 19:11 49:12,13 doubt 25:5
22:18 38:14,19 40:2 denied 23:22,22 49:19 51:13,14 dovetails 20:8
25:5 40:15 41:5 Department 1:16 disclosures draw 31:3
37:2 45:1 43:15,25 47:10 6:4 9:8,20,22 49:25 drawn 40:15
50:20 47:10,13 49:4 11:18 20:9,12 discovery 28:18 dual 19:24
16:7 18:16 29:21 29:21 28:15 46:12,13
27:12 dissent 6:16,16 4:15 5:19 8:1,3
D 1:18 2:6 3:1 38:15 39:24 distinction 31:3 22:4 27:9 40:17
18:13 dates 6:12 45:5 37:25 40:14 D.C 1:8,16,18
27:2 40:22,22 difference 17:21 distinguish 4:6
46:14 deal 36:18 44:8,12 47:22 distinguished E
22:13 32:15 45:16 25:20 26:23 42:14 43:3,9 full 6:15 20:13
51:14 excepting 5:21 38:3,6 40:23 first 3:17 6:8,13 full-fledged 28:8
41:3 10:20 11:12 factor 13:14 48:12 fund 5:4,6 7:25
12:19 18:9,11,16 19:5 50:7,8,18 five 23:19 35:25 41:17
20:16,17,25 factors 3:19 flesh 49:16 fundamental
26:22 34:18,25 fairly 49:24 36:14 funds 3:24 4:17
25:1 exceptions 36:14 fear 16:19 focuses 33:3 18:22 26:12
32:11 exclusive 3:22 Federal 3:12,21 FOIA 34:7,10 28:1 30:14
37:17,19 exercising 8:2 5:17 10:14 35:13 51:20,22 31:24,24 36:5
46:24 exist 5:6 15:2 11:17 15:6,6 52:1,4 36:19 37:8,13
26:15 21:19 25:13,13 followed 25:3 42:7,17 49:4
existing 6:6 23:9 48:12 50:24 forgot 43:2 G 3:1
44:13 explain 5:3 7:21 4:11,19,21 5:20 8:25 9:8,19,25 20:22 21:4
25:12 exposes 39:10 15:2,9,11,13 51:15 52:3 49:12,19 50:5
40:1 extend 12:18 16:20 17:14 fortunately 42:2 51:5,6,16
47:11 extends 5:20 18:9,11,16 19:4 forward 11:10 generally 36:18
extent 9:7,10 20:24 23:12 framework 12:23 getting 37:7
extremely 9:1 26:2 28:12,14 frankly 14:24 GINSBURG
face 39:17 47:9 19:3 34:2 51:16 26:8 27:20
17:3 29:9 12:1,7,17 13:6 hand 19:21 44:5 42:10 43:5,12 47:4
33:15,18 14:17,21,25 44:6 44:9,24 45:19 Indian 3:14,18
45:16 15:4,6,10 16:2 handful 26:1 45:25 46:8 47:7 4:2,9 5:7,24
35:9 19:13,20,24 hard 15:16 humorous 42:16 17:20 19:18
30:5 28:11 31:17 harm 18:5 19:9 hypothetical 42:2,20 47:11
32:20 33:18,24 harmful 20:20 14:21 17:11,12 49:2 50:1
32:25 34:1 36:2,16 hats 44:4 Indians 7:13 9:6
37:21,22 37:7,20 39:9,23 I 12:17 22:10
50:11,14 39:24 40:4,7,17 identical 14:18 35:21 37:19
40:20 41:1,16 14:20 17:2 41:2 46:13,16
44:3,10,14,23 implemented 9:9 5:23,24 6:3 9:6
26:8 45:9,9,13 46:11 implementing 13:21,22
27:2,18 46:12,18,25 48:13 information 4:4
29:6,15 47:3,15 48:2,13 implication 14:10 4:14 5:20 9:21
31:5 48:19 50:20,21 16:23 9:23,24 10:20
32:7,21 51:14,21 52:5,5 implications 19:3 21:10 27:9
34:4 52:6 28:25 30:5 34:3 37:24
35:7 governmental implies 5:22 6:19 50:3 51:16
36:10 4:1 11:20 51:12 7:15 23:5 inherently 12:14
38:6,18 governments imply 6:14 12:14 14:22
35:25
40:13 17:16 important 29:18 19:16
government's 33:14,18 50:8 initial 21:23
43:4,7 37:9 38:14 50:18 Initially 38:2
6:4
44:9,24 39:15,18 41:9 impose 9:3 48:1 inquiry 33:1
46:8 41:17 43:14 imposed 3:13 instances 42:6
10:4,16
47:7 44:7 49:20 52:2 13:6 44:15
15:24
48:4,5 governs 51:13 imposes 4:14 inter 34:16
18:7 19:12
greater 15:13 8:17 interacts 12:17
21:3
24:15
28:3
44:5 inapplicable 15:7 7:5,7 11:14
30:9,17
32:21
26:7 49:25 19:25 18:21 24:1,23 19:10,14,16
34:4,12
36:10
5:18 19:22 43:13 45:12,21 46:9
38:6,18
8:13 11:5 guess 47:14 inconsistent 47:4 51:23
40:13
17:10,18 judgment 13:20 52:12 30:14,15 31:12 litigates 33:25
32:14 13:25 14:2 Justice's 51:19 31:13 32:25 litigation 5:21
46:23 justifications 33:23 47:18 14:11 16:22
45:8,10 Julian 35:11,20 21:4 51:3,4 34:22
46:6,7 43:4 lawyers 20:11 logical 37:5
jurisdictional K 26:7 28:16 29:2 long 9:13 31:12
11:18 jurisprudence 23:14,21,24 lead 49:18 16:6,24 27:3,11
20:9,12 41:2 24:4 31:20 32:7 lease 32:20 40:7 48:15
50:24 Justice 1:16 3:3 33:13 44:18 leaves 30:9 looked 32:10
52:7 3:9 4:16 5:10 47:2 50:9 led 45:4 42:25
7:22 8:5,16 kind 16:19 46:3 11:15 18:21 35:18
11:24 12:10 know 14:12 25:1,17 27:11 lot 22:20 42:4,5,6
16:15,18 17:22 37:14 40:10 32:19 37:12 M
20:8,12,15 21:1 legally 9:17 making 15:7
37:15 21:6,13,14,22 length 45:6
23:14,21,24 lesser 37:23
32:4,16,23,24
25:4,9,10,19 level 37:5 40:23
6:15 8:5,6 managed 35:16
11:1,22 35:22 37:20
13:8 47:13
16:1,6 management 5:5
21:8 5:7 7:16 12:2
12:21 34:14,24 35:8 life 45:2,17
15:19 25:17
21:20 35:17,23 36:20 light 12:16 36:8
25:14,15 28:9 36:5
25:12,12 36:20 37:25 limitation 7:1
27:13 managing 12:4
38:12,25 39:4,8 50:2
38:7 17:19 24:25
31:6 39:14 40:3,11 limited 4:22 15:8
43:16 37:7
36:11 41:7,12,19,23 18:4
matter 1:11 6:24
44:13,25 42:4,21 43:6,9 limits 43:24
10:3 12:12
49:10 44:3,18 45:15 lines 50:13
18:24 20:22
47:2,14 litigant 20:18
46:22 35:15 37:22 obligation 5:22 overruling 41:5 petition 4:25
52:16 morning 23:16 7:24 13:5,7,10 owe 3:21 Petitioner 1:4,17
22:19,20 multifaceted 21:5 23:5 40:4 26:13 52:5 pick 39:13 40:14
28:17 12:16 49:12,13,19,20 ownership 50:6 pieces 9:24
40:19 murky 32:4 49:23 51:24 50:18,19 51:20 place 43:16
45:16 mushy 29:9 obligations 4:21 51:23 52:2 please 3:10 14:9
N 2:1,1 3:1 13:24 16:7 25:6 23:17 50:21 pocket 32:10
49:1 Nation 1:6 3:5 51:15 P 6:9 8:8,14 9:16
33:24 35:2 9:18 22:1 24:21 31:8 PAGE 2:2 22:25 29:23
naturally 6:19 obtaining 27:7 26:11,24 27:11 44:19 48:23
36:9 21:4 22:5 37:16 33:22 35:4,5,8 papers 26:13,23 pointed 36:21
Navajo 6:22 7:9 office 20:12 36:4 particular 15:8 points 5:13 48:11
need 9:11 11:8 16:14,17 17:25 paying 11:15 17:12
29:20 39:16 old 10:19,25 50:10 posit 33:5
7:8 neutral 47:4 open 14:13 50:6,7,17,19 position 10:12
8:14 never 14:20 30:8 operation 21:2 50:20 11:4 12:11,11
21:25 37:5 opposed 48:25 pays 3:23 18:20 29:1 31:17,18
28:8,9 new 40:25 opposing 28:22 30:22 33:19 43:14
nonprivileged option 30:9 pending 21:18 possibility 36:7
49:5,14 50:3 oral 1:11 2:2,5 42:20 posture 28:19
28:5,6,10 notwithstanding ordinarily 46:2 13:10 practical 5:18
30:24 39:23 ordinary 20:18 permit 5:3 12:5,7
35:21 number 16:21 original 17:11 person 21:9 practically 47:21
37:19 37:10 ought 32:4 45:22 practice 9:21
47:1,12 outside 6:5 personal 30:20 PRATIK 1:15
22:2 privilege 3:15 36:6 17:5 23:10 7:20 20:10
35:20 4:12 10:15 15:5 providing 12:18 49:22 23:10 49:24
22:3,5 25:16,22 28:24 proxy 27:7 48:11 reinforced 39:25
30:10 31:25 public 42:24 received 24:25 reiterated 17:7
43:17,18,20,24 purpose 20:16 recognize 19:21 rejected 6:21
privileged 3:14 purposes 20:14 recognized 10:19 related 6:5 7:1
problems 5:18 quarterly 9:4 records 6:5 22:10 29:18,19
24:10 38:2,5,8 25:21 31:1 28:17 50:18,22 27:9 37:23
48:1 32:1 reflecting 3:17 43:22,23
proper 37:13 quote 49:8 refuses 20:19 remainder 24:13
25:15 17:20 22:17
proposed 14:18
47:2 renegotiate
4:7,12 41:1
11:5,13 proposition 6:23
13:15 prospective 33:4
20:18,23 36:1,7 38:16
28:12 39:1,5,6,7
31:18 protect 8:17
22:14,22 50:24 51:16 required 19:10
33:20 32:14,14
regulations 4:3 26:16
36:15 protection 27:24
protects 34:18
50:21 19:2 23:4 50:25 15:18
45:1,5,10 provide 9:3,5,20
51:22 38:16 39:1,3,9 17:22 31:12 serving 30:15 28:11 45:24
13:22 40:9 11:1 14:14 43:22 51:15 52:3 solely 10:21
41:16 18:17 20:16 Scalia 20:15 21:1 sets 7:20 49:3 17:14
48:12 21:11 24:3,4 21:6,13 26:9,18 severed 37:6 Solicitor 1:15
27:18 28:2,19 26:20 27:16 Shah 1:15 2:3,9 solicitor's 36:4,6
35:15 37:23 45:15,20 46:2 8:21 10:4,16 sort 6:10 43:25
24:18 rights 14:3 34:7 scheme 52:3 15:24 16:10,14 Sotomayor 4:16
48:24 24:14,16 25:4 second 4:5 27:8 20:5,22 21:3,12 11:24 14:23
25:10 28:23 48:23 21:17 23:20,23 15:3,12 19:15
32:18,22 33:9 section 8:12 45:6 48:8,10 51:5,25 Sotomayor's
12:21 41:7,12,19,23 see 25:1 26:20 shape 44:22 sought 10:21
46:18 47:14,17 48:3,6 35:15 42:25 share 51:22 18:12
49:16 51:2 52:12 46:24 shared 29:8,11 sovereign 3:17
rule 10:13 12:13 seeking 13:20 shielding 19:20 13:12 17:18
27:14 21:8 25:13 30:22,23 32:13 show 19:10 20:18 44:14,20
39:16,25 41:1 37:12 38:2 47:4 21:10 28:12 speaking 47:22
50:22 48:12 52:9 selectively 30:10 side 48:17 specific 4:3,9
18:23 39:22 40:1 sense 13:14,25 simple 48:15 12:12 13:13
52:10 runs 41:25 42:3 28:17 47:21 8:1 13:25 17:9 22:23 23:3,4
S 2:1 3:1 serious 5:18 single 27:16 specifically 40:1
sake 35:23 services 12:19 14:20 15:1,17 specifies 25:13
subset 12:20 taxpayers 13:10 top 5:24 32:23,24 35:15
7:11 9:3 suddenly 42:23 tell 16:22 33:12 totally 17:23 36:19,23,25
10:4,13 sued 24:21 32:25 tensions 12:24 18:2 45:23 46:1 37:8,24 40:16
13:9 suffice 30:16 13:2 19:17 transform 41:2 40:16,21,24
suggest 25:22 term 6:10,14,18 treated 14:17 41:25 45:1,14
17:9 19:18 27:12 7:18 21:24 22:7 18:1,1 45:23 47:12
22:10 suggesting 7:25 22:12 trial 23:18 24:5,8 48:25,25 49:1,2
26:1 9:14 19:24 terminology 23:1 24:8 49:4 50:14,22
9:19 15:21 39:11 Thank 24:14,15 tribe 3:15 4:2 5:7 11:13 12:6,15
22:3 suits 21:15,18 48:3,5 52:11,12 7:5,13 9:15 13:22 14:10
37:21 36:8 theoretical 47:21 16:21 17:2 17:13,13,23
40:8 41:4 suppose 14:5 theory 38:3,12 19:23,25 23:16 18:1,9 20:23
49:3,6 40:3 39:15 40:6 38:3 21:1 24:23 25:2
supposed 14:12 things 10:25 12:3 tribes 9:5,11,23 25:6,15 26:25
6:9 8:12 45:22 22:20 34:19 22:11 47:11 29:10,11,12,13
9:2,25 Supreme 1:1,12 think 6:24 9:12 tribe's 52:9 29:19,23 30:6
17:19 19:2 sure 5:16 8:4 11:7,11 12:10 trick 39:21 48:14 30:10,12,18,19
49:10,18 12:9 14:2 16:10 12:11,13,15,22 true 12:15 34:9 30:21,21,23
18:3 49:1 12:25 13:14,25 47:2,21 31:8,11,12,21
15:17 sweeping 23:5 20:5,6,7 21:12 trumps 29:20 32:15,18 35:24
20:10 40:25 21:25 22:1,5 trust 3:11,18,20 36:11 44:5,15
49:7,24 system 29:1 36:3 23:7,10,12 3:20,23,25,25 44:21 45:10,21
52:10 30:17 32:4 33:2 4:13,17,18 5:4 46:3,4,5,9
24:17 tail 28:4 49:22 50:8,17 8:11,20 10:6,18 50:10
take 11:4 13:12 third 5:13,14,16 13:1,1 14:6,6 31:15 45:6
37:2 use 4:17 6:9,13 37:22 40:25 16 34:6
37:19 uses 6:18 7:18 51:11 49:10
26:16 widely 29:11 1912 17:6
15:25 value 15:13 withhold 5:4
26:14 variety 22:8,9 24:11,24 25:16 2
37:3 44:4 versus 39:1 50:2 wonder 34:10 2 6:21 7:9 28:8,9
34:17 voluminous 19:8 words 25:6 2011 1:9
48:15 voluntary 41:16 work 17:16 24:1 24 2:7
42:7
want 5:12 9:15 301 20:16 21:8
wants 39:3 worry 35:9 4 48:6
wasn't 27:23 36:15
15:16 way 4:18 8:19 written 14:13 5 34:18
14:6
10:13 14:24
37:11
47:11
7:11 9:3 wears 44:4 $500,000 16:16
10:4,13 Wednesday 1:9
13:9 7
6:12 7:9,10
well-established 79 45:6
8:14 22:21
17:8 19:18
22:10 went 27:24 40:15,24 43:11 9
weren't 39:3 10-382 1:5 3:4 90 21:18
17:22 28:6 11:06 52:15
35:14,20 1101 39:25
