IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
HOSANNA-TABOR EVANGELICAL LUTHERAN:
CHURCH AND SCHOOL, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 10-553
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY :
COMMISSION, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, October 5, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DOUGLAS LAYCOCK, ESQ., Charlottesville, Virginia; for
Petitioner.
LEONDRA R. KRUGER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
for Federal Respondent.
WALTER DELLINGER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for private
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DOUGLAS LAYCOCK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
LEONDRA R. KRUGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Federal Respondent 26
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
WALTER DELLINGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the private Respondent 45
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DOUGLAS LAYCOCK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-553, Hosanna-Tabor
Evangelical Lutheran Church and School v. The Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission.
Mr. Laycock.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS LAYCOCK
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. LAYCOCK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The churches do not set the criteria for
selecting or removing the officers of government, and
government does not set the criteria for selecting or
removing officers of the church. That's a bedrock
principle, and these Respondents would repudiate it.
They no longer seriously argue that Cheryl Perich was
not a minister. Instead, they argue that even people
who are indisputably ministers can sue their churches on
claims that turn on their qualifications, their job
performance, and the rules of ministry. They would --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Laycock, would you
clarify one point? You say the church decides who's
qualified to be a minister, but, as I understand the
facts here, she was never decommissioned as a minister,
and, beyond that, she was even recommended by the
officials to other parishes to be a commissioned
minister. So, it's -- it's odd to say there's any
interferences with who is qualified to be a minister,
because the church was holding her out as being
qualified.
MR. LAYCOCK: Well, she was removed from her
ministry at Hosanna-Tabor. They do not have to indulge
in a vendetta against her and file charges with the
synod. And if you look at that recommendation -- it's
in the joint appendix -- it is not much of a
recommendation. There's excellent, commendable,
proficient, and in ministry qualities, she gets
proficient. We all know if there's a 5, a 4, and a 3, a
3 isn't very good.
So, they were not recommending her; they
simply weren't pursuing formal charges against her
before the -- before the Missouri Synod. And -- and the
problems they had were most severe at Hosanna-Tabor. In
another congregation that didn't know this history, she
might have been able to be effective again. That was
for them to decide. They make their own calls.
But she was removed at Hosanna-Tabor, which
was where the problem was.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, most of the
circuits have recognized a ministerial exception. But
they've, in one form or another, created a pretext
exception. The reason for that is the situation that
troubles me. How about a teacher who reports sexual
abuse to the government and is fired because of that
reporting?
Now, we know from the news recently that
there was a church whose religious beliefs centered
around sexually exploiting women and, I believe,
children. Regardless of whether it's a religious belief
or not, doesn't society have a right at some point to
say certain conduct is unacceptable, even if religious
-- smoking peyote? And once we say that's unacceptable,
can and why shouldn't we protect the people who are
doing what the law requires, i.e., reporting it?
So, how do we deal with that situation under
your theory? Under your theory, nothing survives if the
individual is a minister, no claim, private claim.
MR. LAYCOCK: I think if you look at the
court of appeals cases, they have not indulged in
pretext inquiries for ministers. The case you present
is obviously a difficult case, and I would say two
things: We think the appropriate rule should be the
government could do many things to force reporting, to
penalize people who don't report, but a discharge claim
by a minister presents the question why she was
discharged, and the court should stay out of that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The problem with that is
that it doesn't take account of the societal interest in
encouraging the reporting. And, in fact, if we -- if we
define the ministerial exception in the way you want, we
take away the incentive for reporting; we actually do
the opposite of what society needs.
MR. LAYCOCK: I understand that concern, and
that was my second point, that if you want to carve out
an exception for cases like child abuse where the
government's interest is in protecting the child, not an
interest in protecting the minister, when you get such a
case, we think you could carve out that exception.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How? Give me a
theoretical framework for this.
MR. LAYCOCK: The -- first you have to
identify the government's interest in regulation. If
the government's interest is in protecting ministers
from discrimination, we are squarely within the heart of
the ministerial exception.
If the government's interest is something
quite different from that, like protecting the children,
then you can assess whether that government interest is
sufficiently compelling to justify interfering with the
relationship between the church and its ministers. But
the government's interest is at its nadir when the claim
is: We want to protect these ministers as such. We
want to tell the churches what criteria they should
apply for -- for selecting and removing ministers.
JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Laycock, the ministerial
exception is not something new. It has been widely
recognized, as Justice Sotomayor mentioned, by the
courts of appeals going back 40 years. So, we can see
how the recognition of this exception within -- with
certain contours has worked out. And how has it worked
out over those past 40 years? Have there been a great
many cases, a significant number of cases, involving the
kinds of things that Justice Sotomayor is certainly
rightly concerned about, instances in which ministers
have been fired for reporting criminal violations and
that sort of thing?
MR. LAYCOCK: The only -- I'm not aware of
any such case. The one case I am aware of cuts the
other way. A minister, a priest accused of sexually
abusing children who was fired, sued to get his job
back, and the church invoked the ministerial exception,
and that case ended. They were able to get rid of him.
There is a cert petition pending in which a
teacher with a long series of problems in her school
called the police about an allegation of sexual abuse
that did not happen at the school, did not involve a
student of the school, did not involve a parent at the
school, someplace else; and -- and called the police and
had them come interview a student without any
communication with -- with her principal. And the
respondents tried to spin that as a case of discharge
for reporting sexual abuse. But if you look at the
facts, it's really quite different. And those are the
only two cases I'm aware of that even approach touching
on this problem.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But here what we have is a
claim of retaliation, so that she can't even get a
hearing. So, we can look at the various tests that are
proposed here, and I think it's difficult to formulate
the tests, but this can't even be -- be litigated
because she is discharged. The allegation is that
there's a retaliation for even asking for a hearing
where these tests could -- could be applied.
MR. LAYCOCK: Well, she can't get a hearing
in civil court. She could have had a hearing in the
synod before decisionmakers who would have been
independent of the local church. This Court has
repeatedly said churches can create tribunals for the
governance of their officers. The churches --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Again, that -- that could
be an argument you could make in the -- in the pretext
hearing.
MR. LAYCOCK: Well, it's an argument we make
in the hearing on whether the ministerial exception
applies. You know --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're asking for an
exemption so these issues can't even be tried.
MR. LAYCOCK: Well, we're asking to apply
the exemption --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's almost like a summary
-- like a summary judgment argument.
MR. LAYCOCK: It was precisely a motion
for --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's the -- that's
the analogy, I think.
MR. LAYCOCK: It was a motion for summary
judgment.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no, no. What she is
saying is that you basically gave me summary judgment;
you didn't allow me to go to the agency to have a proper
test applied. The summary judgment was just an analogy.
Forget it.
(Laughter.)
MR. LAYCOCK: I'm not entirely sure I
understand the question. We agree she couldn't go to
civil court if she's a minister. She could have gone to
the synod. She wasn't cut off from that. She decided
not to do it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I'm saying if there
are some substantial interests the church has that can
be litigated in EEOC hearing. She was fired simply for
asking for a hearing.
MR. LAYCOCK: I understand that. But once
you start to litigate these cases --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think your point is that
it's -- it's none of the business of the government to
decide what the substantial interest of the church is.
MR. LAYCOCK: That's one of my points, maybe
the most important of my points. These -- these
decisions are committed to the churches by separation of
church and state, but -- but beyond that, once the --
this process of trying to identify, we can decide some
issues in this case and we won't get to other issues in
this case doesn't work. As Justice Breyer said in a
First Circuit opinion, that requires more and more
finely spun distinctions that create entanglement rather
than avoid it, Universidad de Bayamon.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you
referred to the ministerial exception, but, of course,
your position extends beyond ministers. How do we --
how do we decide who's covered by the ministerial
exception and who is not?
MR. LAYCOCK: Right. Here I think it's very
easy. She's a commissioned minister in the church. She
holds ecclesiastical office. She teaches the religion
class.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, let's say it's
a teacher who teaches only purely secular subjects but
leads the class in grace before lunch. Is that somebody
who would be covered by the ministerial exception?
MR. LAYCOCK: The lower courts have said
that person is not covered. And we are not challenging
that rule. Obviously, there has to be some kind of
quantitative threshold. There will be line-drawing
problems. But --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I thought your
position would be if she's a commissioned minister, as
distinguished from a teacher who conducts grace or takes
the class to chapel. I'm -- I take it the Chief is
asking for somebody in this -- that you categorize as a
minister, although mostly she's a math teacher. You
would say the extent of her religious duties don't
matter; what counts is that she is commissioned as a
minister.
MR. LAYCOCK: If she's commissioned as a
minister and if that is not a sham, then we think that
makes her a minister. If you have a Jesuit teaching
physics, we think he is still a priest. And he's still
controlled by the ministerial exception.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can we try whether it's a
sham? I thought you said we couldn't try whether it's a
sham.
MR. LAYCOCK: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is a sham different from a
pretext?
(Laughter.)
MR. LAYCOCK: Well, I -- I certainly meant
something different from a pretext. A sham is more
extreme, and it goes to a different point in the
analysis. You can decide whether she's really a
minister. That's the threshold question that courts
must decide. And if we have a person with a ministerial
title who is doing nothing at all religious or
ministerial, we have a church that tries to say everyone
who ever worked for us or ever may is a minister, the
courts can deal with those cases if they --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, you would allow the --
the government courts to probe behind the church's
assertion that this person is a minister? You would
allow that, right? But once it is determined that the
person is a minister, you would not allow the government
to decide whether the firing was a pretext?
MR. LAYCOCK: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, different
churches have different ideas about who's a minister.
There are some churches who think all of our adherents
are ministers of our faith. Now, does that mean that
everybody who's a member of that church qualifies as a
minister because that is part of the church's belief?
MR. LAYCOCK: I don't -- I don't think it
means that. And, again, I -- I think courts have some
capacity to look at what this employee is actually
doing, and if he's not performing any of the functions
of a religious leader, if he's not teaching the faith,
then --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Every one of our
adherents stands as a witness to our beliefs. And
that -- you know, not every church is hierarchical in
terms of different offices.
MR. LAYCOCK: I understand that. And lay
people in many churches are expected to be witnesses,
right. So --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Lay people in many --
MR. LAYCOCK: Lay people have to be
witnesses. The fact that you're expected to witness to
the faith when the occasion arises doesn't make you --
doesn't make you a minister.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the answer you gave to
the Chief Justice seems to me to be this case. I was
interested. I didn't know about this -- this minister
capacity in this particular church. And as the Chief
Justice indicates, many churches don't have -- some
churches don't have what we think of as professional or
full-time ministers at all. They're all ministers.
MR. LAYCOCK: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you said, well, that
-- that can be litigated, that can be investigated. And
I suppose when we do that we say, how many secular
functions do you perform? And that's what this case is.
But you don't -- you don't even want that issue to be
tried. You say that issue can't even be explored.
MR. LAYCOCK: How -- you know, how many
religious functions you perform can be explored. The
issue that can be explored is whether she's a minister.
We think she clearly is. The issue --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that term is a legal
term. What constitutes a minister is -- is decided by
the law, not by the church, right?
MR. LAYCOCK: That is correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. LAYCOCK: That is correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Is that correct?
JUSTICE ALITO: But I thought with a lot of
deference to the church's understanding of whether
someone is a minister.
MR. LAYCOCK: We think there should be
deference to good-faith understandings, but we are not
arguing for a rule that would enable an organization to
fraudulently declare that everyone is a minister when
it's not true. You decided the Tony Alamo case 20 years
ago. We're not defending that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What makes it not true?
What is the legal definition of "minister"? What is it?
That you have to lead the congregation in their
religious services or what? What is it?
MR. LAYCOCK: We think -- we think you -- if
you teach the doctrines of the faith, if that is part of
your job responsibilities, to teach the doctrines of the
faith, we think you're a minister.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, does that mean that
any religious teacher is a minister under your theory?
So, you know, there may be teachers in religious schools
who teach religious subjects, not mathematics, but are
not ordained or commissioned in any way as ministers.
Are they ministers?
MR. LAYCOCK: If you're ordained or
commissioned, that makes it very easy. If you teach the
religion class, you teach an entire class on religion,
we think you ought to be within this rule.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that it was
part of -- it was agreed that there was no fact dispute
that what she did, her duties at the school, did not
change from when she was a contract teacher, and
therefore not a minister, and then she takes courses and
is qualified to become a minister, but what she's doing
at the school is the very same thing. And I thought
that was the basis for the -- the decision that we're
reviewing, that there was no difference at all in what
she did before she was commissioned and after she was
commissioned.
MR. LAYCOCK: That -- that's what the Sixth
Circuit said. What they -- what -- you know, I don't
think that changes the nature of the functions that were
being performed. But what's relevant to that, that they
neglected was these noncommissioned -- these teachers
who were not commissioned ministers, the lay and
contract teachers, were fill-ins only when no called
teacher was available, and Perich identifies only one
person for 1 year.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you're isolating one
parish, but there was something in one of these briefs
that said the majority of the teachers in the Lutheran
schools -- let's see where it was. I think it was --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: While Justice Ginsburg is
looking, I had -- I had the same impression, that
whether you're commissioned or not commissioned doesn't
necessarily mean you can't teach a religious class.
MR. LAYCOCK: Well, it doesn't --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And again, that's
something that -- that can be heard. You don't even
want to hear it.
MR. LAYCOCK: That's -- it is not uncommon,
even with ordained ministers, it's not uncommon among
Protestants, to recognize an ordination from a different
denomination that has similar teachings. So, when --
when they can't find a called minister to cover a class
and they hire another Christian from another
conservative Protestant denomination, they say: While
you teach here, you're required to teach Lutheran
doctrine.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Going back
to the question Justice Kagan asked you, if one of these
Protestant teachers that's not Lutheran led the
cafeteria prayer, as they are required to, you're now
saying that the law must recognize that lay teacher as a
minister and apply the ministerial exception, even
though the religion doesn't consider her a minister?
MR. LAYCOCK: I -- I didn't say that. I
said --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but that was the
answer you gave. If she taught a religious class --
MR. LAYCOCK: If she teaches a religion
class, not if she merely leads a prayer.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what is your
definition of "minister"? Maybe we need to find out.
So, it's not a title. It's really -- the only
function -- you're saying anyone who teaches religion?
MR. LAYCOCK: I think if you teach the
religion class, you're clearly a minister. But if you
are -- if you hold an ecclesiastical office, that makes
this a very easy --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay, but this is -- you're
saying a fortiori, but basically you'd be here anyway
even if she hadn't been ordained; right?
MR. LAYCOCK: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is your take -- what
is your reaction to a less dramatic kind of holding?
Suppose we were to say the truth is that the particular
individual here does have some religious obligations in
teaching and quite a lot that aren't. So, she's sort of
on the edge. At the same time, there is a statute
which, whether it applies or not, you could take the
principle, and it says a religious organization like
your client may require that she conform to the
religious tenets of the organization.
So, Congress focused on this. And the
district court looks at it, and suppose it were to
decide: That's true, but there's no evidence here at
all that religious tenets had anything to do with her
being dismissed. No one mentioned them. She didn't
know about them. I didn't until I read the very
excellent brief filed by the Lutherans that explained
the nature of taking civil suits. No one said that to
her, whether it was in someone's mind or not. She found
out on motion for summary judgment. So, therefore, this
wasn't an effort by the religious organization to
express its tenets. She was dismissed.
She could have -- they could have had a
defense, but it doesn't apply, and, therefore, even
though she's sort of like a minister, she loses.
What are your objections to that?
MR. LAYCOCK: Well, my first objection is I
don't think those are remotely the facts here. You
know, this teaching is clearly stated, embodied in an
elaborate dispute resolution process. You don't ask
for --
JUSTICE BREYER: Did anyone mention that to
her?
MR. LAYCOCK: Indeed.
JUSTICE BREYER: Really? My law clerk
couldn't find it. Can you tell me where -- where
someone did say the reason we're dismissing you is
because of our religious doctrine that you cannot bring
civil suits?
MR. LAYCOCK: Page 55 of the joint appendix,
which is the letter that -- where they tell her that
they're going to recommend recission of her call, they
say, because -- because of insubordination and because
you threatened to sue us.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, does anyone explain
to her, which she might not have known, that this is a
religious doctrine that you are supposed to go to the
synod or whatever, and you're not supposed to go to
court?
MR. LAYCOCK: She --
JUSTICE BREYER: Of course, they wanted to
fire her because she threatened to sue them. But what
I'm wondering is, is there anywhere before the motion
for summary judgment where someone explains to her, our
motivation here is due to our religious tenet?
MR. LAYCOCK: You don't assess the
importance of a doctrine by asking the person --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I understand that.
But I went on a different piece of -- matter, that the
people who were involved in this were doing it for
religious rather than civil reasons. I'm just wondering
what the evidence is that they knew there was such a
doctrine, that they were motivated by the religious
doctrine, and that they expressed that to her. I
just -- I'll look at page 55. Is there anything else I
should look at?
MR. LAYCOCK: The principal --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it -- is it in the
handbook? I mean, one of the objections -- if this --
if this is a rule that's going to bind the teachers,
then you would expect to find it in the handbook. But
the handbook doesn't tell her, if you complain to the
EEOC about discrimination, then you will be fired.
MR. LAYCOCK: Well, I don't know if it does
or it doesn't, because the handbook is not in the record
except for a short excerpt. But she knew about this
rule.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, Mr. Laycock, could
you --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm looking for a citation
in the record? I just wonder, is there anything you
want me to read other than page 55?
MR. LAYCOCK: Yes. The principal in her
deposition says: The minute she said she might sue, I
said you can't do that; you're a called teacher.
The testimony is the board talked about it
at their meeting on February 22nd. I think that's also
in the principal's deposition. The president of the
congregation, who did not deal directly with Perich,
said -- said it was one of the first things that he
thought about. Perich was a lifelong Lutheran. She
worked 11 years in Lutheran schools. She had these
eight theology courses. It's simply not credible that
she didn't know about this doctrine.
JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Laycock, doesn't this
inquiry illustrate the problems that will necessarily
occur if you get into a pretext analysis? The question
of was she told that she had violated the church's
teaching about suing in a civil tribunal? Well, that
depends. The significance of -- let's assume she wasn't
told. The significance of that depends on how central a
teaching of Lutheranism this is.
It's like -- suppose a Catholic priest got
married and the bishop said, I'm removing you from your
parish because of your conduct. Now, there wouldn't be
much question about why that was done. So, you'd have
to get in, what did Martin Luther actually say about --
about suing the church or other Christians in a civil
tribunal? Is this really a central tenet of
Lutheranism? Isn't that the problem with going into
this pretext analysis?
MR. LAYCOCK: That's just part of the
problem. You've got to figure, how does this doctrine
work? How important is it? How does it apply to the
facts of this case? How does it interact with other
doctrines?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Laycock, you, in
order, I think, to dispel the notion that nothing is
permitted, in your reply brief you say there are many
suits that could be brought that would not be
inappropriate. And I think it's on page 20 of your
reply brief. But I don't understand how those would
work if the policy is you're a minister; if you have
quarrels with the church or a co-worker, we have our own
dispute resolution, and you don't go outside.
But you say tort arising from unsafe working
conditions. Suppose one of these commissioned workers
said, I think that there are unsafe working conditions
and I'm going to complain to the Occupational Health and
Safety Agency. And wouldn't she get the same answer:
This has to be solved in-house. You don't go to an
agency of the state.
Why -- I don't follow why the tort claim
based on unsafe working conditions would not fall under
the same ban on -- keeping disputes in-house?
MR. LAYCOCK: Well, it may or it may not.
The rule on internal dispute resolution is most
emphatically and clearly stated as applying to disputes
over fitness for ministry, and a tort claim may not be a
dispute over fitness for ministry, but what --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I thought the reason
that she was unfit for the ministry was that she went
outside the house.
MR. LAYCOCK: That's right. Yes.
JUDGE GINSBURG: So, in all of these cases,
you go outside the church, you go to the government,
then you have a --
MR. LAYCOCK: What we say in the passages in
the reply brief that you're looking at is the legal
doctrine, the ministerial exception as a matter of law,
does not apply unless the dispute is over whether I get
the job back, job qualifications, job performance, or
rules of ministry. The church's rule --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But she could -- she
could be -- for any of these things, she could be
disciplined, fired because she complained outside the
house.
MR. LAYCOCK: She could be. And her tort --
the tort claim would proceed. We think the retaliation
claim should not proceed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The tort claim could
proceed, and then she would get damages, and that would
be all right?
MR. LAYCOCK: She would get damages for the
tort. She would not get damages for the loss of her
position.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did you say -- did I
understand you before, in response to Justice Sotomayor
and Justice Scalia, that even if she were merely a
contract teacher, the fact that she teaches religion
classes would be enough for her to qualify for the
ministerial exception?
MR. LAYCOCK: Yes. And the fact that she's
a commissioned minister is the clincher in this case.
Teaching --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is the clincher in this
case, but even -- I think you answered if she were not a
commissioned minister, she's teaching the faith;
therefore, she can be fired, and it doesn't matter
whether she's commissioned. So, the commission is
irrelevant. It's -- it's her job duties that count.
MR. LAYCOCK: Job duties are enough. The
commission is not irrelevant. It is the clincher.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Now, it was certainly for
some purposes. I mean, if every teacher who teaches
religion and math and a lot of other things said, I'm a
minister and I'm entitled to the parsonage allowance on
my income tax return, certainly that's something that a
government agent would review.
MR. LAYCOCK: Well, they do review it there.
I think there's a -- I don't think the Lutherans have
any problems with the IRS on that. But, yes, that is a
context where they review these questions.
If I could reserve a few minutes for
rebuttal, I would be grateful.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You may.
Ms. Kruger.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LEONDRA R. KRUGER
ON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL RESPONDENT
MS. KRUGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The freedom of religious communities to come
together to express and share religious belief is a
fundamental constitutional right. But it's a right that
must also accommodate important governmental interests
in securing the public welfare. Congress has not
unconstitutionally infringed Petitioner's freedom in
this case by making it illegal for it to fire a fourth
grade teacher in retaliation for asserting her statutory
rights.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is the position of
the United States that there is a ministerial exception
or that there is not a ministerial exception?
MS. KRUGER: Mr. Chief Justice, if the
ministerial exception is understood as a First Amendment
doctrine that governs the adjudication of disputes
between certain employees and their employers, we agree
that that First Amendment doctrine exists.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Nothing to do with
respect to the ministers. In other words, is there a
ministerial exception distinct from the right of
association under the First Amendment?
MS. KRUGER: We think that the ministerial
exception is one that incorporates the right of
association as well as the rights under the religion
clauses.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there anything
special about the fact that the people involved in this
case are part of a religious organization?
MS. KRUGER: We think that the -- the
analysis is one that the Court has -- has elaborated in
other cases involving similar claims to autonomy,
noninterference --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that a "no"? You
say it's similar to other cases. Expressive
associations -- a group of people who are interested in
labor rights have expressive associations. Is the issue
we are talking about here in the view of the United
States any different than any other group of people who
get together for an expressive right?
MS. KRUGER: We think the basic contours of
the inquiry are not different. We think how the inquiry
plays out in particular cases may be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's extraordinary.
MS. KRUGER: I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's extraordinary.
MS. KRUGER: Well, I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We're talking here about
the Free Exercise Clause and about the Establishment
Clause, and you say they have no special application
to --
MS. KRUGER: The contours -- but the inquiry
that the Court has set out as to expressive associations
we think translate quite well to analyzing the claim
that Petitioner has made here. And for this reason, we
don't think that the job duties of a particular
religious employee in an organization are relevant to
the inquiry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There's nothing in the
Constitution that explicitly prohibits the government
from mucking around in a labor organization. Now, yes,
you -- you can by an extension of First Amendment rights
derive such a -- but there, black on white in the text
of the Constitution are special protections for
religion. And you say that makes no difference?
MS. KRUGER: Well, Justice Scalia, if I may,
I don't understand Petitioner from the first half of his
argument to have disputed this basic point, which is
that the contours of the First Amendment doctrine at
issue here will depend on a balancing of interests.
That is the only way, I think, that Petitioner can
differentiate a generally neutrally applicable
application of anti-discrimination law with respect to a
church's choice of those who would govern it and a
church's retaliation against a teacher who would report
child abuse to the authorities.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think that the balancing
of interests is different, according to the Petitioner,
when one of the interests is religion. And you're just
denying that. You say: We balance religion the way we
balance labor organizations.
MS. KRUGER: Well, Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's certainly not what
the Petitioner is saying.
MS. KRUGER: Here is where I think what the
core of the insight of the ministerial exception as it
was originally conceived is, which is that there are
certain relationships within a religious community that
are so fundamental, so private and ecclesiastical in
nature, that it will take an extraordinarily compelling
governmental interest to justify interference. Concerns
with health or safety, for example. But the
government's general interest in eradicating
discrimination in the workplace will not be sufficient
to justify the burden.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, do you dispute the
proposition that one of the central concerns of the
Establishment Clause was preventing the government from
choosing ministers? When there was an established
church, the government chose the ministers or had a say
in choosing the ministers. And the Establishment
Clause, many argue, was centrally focused on eliminating
that governmental power. Now, do you dispute that?
MS. KRUGER: No, Justice Alito, we don't
dispute it. What we do dispute is that what is
happening when the government applies generally
applicable anti-retaliation law to a religious employer
is that it is choosing a minister on behalf of the
church. What it is instead doing is preventing
religious employers, like any other employers, from
punishing their employees for threatening to bring
illegal conduct to the attention of --
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose that's the central
tenet. Suppose you have a religion and the central
tenet is: You have a problem with what we do, go to the
synod; don't go to court. And that applies to civil
actions of all kinds. All right? So, would that not be
protected by the First Amendment?
MS. KRUGER: Justice Breyer, two points --
JUSTICE BREYER: Your view is it's not
protected?
MS. KRUGER: It's not protected. But I'd
like -- I think there are two responses that are
relevant to how this Court will resolve that question in
this case.
First of all, if the Court were to accept
the rule that Petitioner would ask it to adopt, we would
never ask the question whether or not the church has a
reason for firing an employee that's rooted in religious
doctrine. Their submission is that the hiring and
firing decisions with respect to parochial school
teachers and with respect to priests is categorically
off limits. And we think that that is a rule that is
insufficiently attentive to the relative public and
private interests at stake, interests that this Court
has repeatedly recognized are important in
determining freedom of association claims.
JUSTICE BREYER: So that, in fact, if they
want to choose to the priest, you could go to the
Catholic Church and say they have to be women. I mean,
you couldn't say that. That's obvious. So, how are you
distinguishing this?
MS. KRUGER: Right. We think that the --
both the private and public interests are very different
in the two scenarios. The government's general interest
in eradicating discrimination in the workplace is simply
not sufficient to justify changing the way that the
Catholic Church chooses its priests based on gender
roles that are rooted in religious doctrine.
But the interests in this case are quite
different. The government has a compelling and indeed
overriding interest in ensuring that individuals are not
prevented from coming to the government with information
about illegal conduct.
JUSTICE ALITO: When you say that, are you
not implicitly making a judgment about the relative
importance of the Catholic doctrine that only males can
be ordained as priests and the Lutheran doctrine that a
Lutheran should not sue the church in civil courts? I
don't see any distinction between -- I can't reconcile
your position on those two issues without coming to the
conclusion that you think that the Catholic doctrine is
older, stronger, and entitled to more respect than the
Lutheran doctrine.
MS. KRUGER: No, we're not -- we're not
drawing distinctions between the importance of a
particular religious tenet in a system of religious
belief. But the difference is that the government has
a, indeed, foundational interest in ensuring, as a
matter of preserving the integrity of the rule of law,
that individuals are not punished for coming --
JUSTICE BREYER: You're saying that going to
church -- sorry -- that going to court is a more
fundamental interest than a woman obtaining the job that
she wants, which happens in this case to be a Catholic
priest. But that's the distinction you're making.
MS. KRUGER: I am drawing a distinction
between --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why? I don't know
why that doesn't -- I mean, you may be right, but it
isn't obvious to me that the one is the more important
than the other.
MS. KRUGER: The government's interest in
preventing retaliation against those who would go to
civil authorities with civil wrongs is foundational to
the rule of law.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Kruger, if I could just
clarify for a second there, because you're now sounding
as though you want to draw a sharp line between
retaliation claims and substantive discrimination
claims, and I didn't get that from your brief. So, is
that, in fact, what you're saying?
MS. KRUGER: I think that there is an
important distinction to be made between the
government's general interest in eradicating
discrimination from the workplace and the government's
interest in ensuring that individuals are not chilled
from coming to civil authorities with reports about
civil wrongs.
But if I could continue, I think that the --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, are you willing to
accept the ministerial exception for substantive
discrimination claims, just not for retaliation claims?
MS. KRUGER: I don't think that those are
the only two sets of inquiries that are important in the
balancing. And if I could continue, I think the
government --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. That was
a yes -- I think that question can be answered yes or
no.
MS. KRUGER: I think that that doesn't -- I
think the answer is no, in part because that doesn't
fully account for all of the public and private
interests at stake. The government's interest extends
in this case beyond the fact that this is a retaliation
to the fact that this is not a church operating
internally to promulgate and express religious belief
internally. It is a church that has decided to open its
doors to the public to provide the service, socially
beneficial service, of educating children for a fee, in
compliance with State compulsory education laws.
And this Court has recognized in cases like
Bob Jones that church-operated schools sit in a
different position with respect to the -- the
permissible scope of governmental regulations than
churches themselves do.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even with respect to their
religion classes and their theology classes? It's
extraordinary.
MS. KRUGER: Well, the government's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just because -- just
because you have to comply with State education
requirements on secular subjects, your -- who you pick
to -- to teach theology or to teach religion has to
be -- has to be subject to State control?
MS. KRUGER: Justice Scalia, to be clear,
the government's interest in this case is not in
dictating to the church-operated school who it may
choose to teach religion classes and who it may not. It
is one thing and one thing only, which is to tell the
school that it may not punish its employees for
threatening to report civil wrongs to civil authorities.
That is an interest that we think overrides the burden
on the association's religious message about the virtues
of internal dispute resolution as opposed to court
resolution.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you're making --
you're making a judgment about how important a
particular religious belief is to a church. You're
saying -- this may just be the same question Justice
Alito asked -- but you're saying: We don't believe the
Lutheran Church when it says that this is an important
and central tenet of our faith.
MS. KRUGER: No, absolutely not, Mr. Chief
Justice. We do not dispute -- when they assert that
it's an important tenet, we assume its validity, we
assume that they are sincere in that religious belief.
But just as in United States v. Lee, that sincere
religious belief was not sufficient to warrant an
exemption from generally applicable tax laws, as in Bob
Jones, or --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: On the other hand,
the -- the belief of the Catholic Church that priests
should be male only -- you do defer to that, even if the
Lutherans say, look, our dispute resolution belief is
just as important to a Lutheran as the all-male clergy
is to a Catholic.
MS. KRUGER: Yes. But that's because the
balance of relative public and private interests is
different in each case.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you believe, Ms. Kruger,
that a church has a right that's grounded in the Free
Exercise Clause and/or the Establishment Clause to
institutional autonomy with respect to its employees?
MS. KRUGER: We don't see that line of
church autonomy principles in the Religion Clause
jurisprudence as such. We see it as a question of
freedom of association. We think that this case is
perhaps one of the cases --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, this is to go back to
Justice Scalia's question, because I too find that
amazing, that you think that the Free -- neither the
Free Exercise Clause nor the Establishment Clause has
anything to say about a church's relationship with its
own employees.
MS. KRUGER: We think that this is one of
the cases that Employment Division v. Smith may have
been referring to when it referred to free association
claims that are reinforced by free exercise concerns.
It's certainly true that the association's claim to
autonomy in this case is one that is deeply rooted. And
concerns about how it exercises its religion -- those
two things merge in some ways in that respect. But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think they merge at
all. Smith didn't involve employment by a church. It
had nothing to do with who the church could employ. I
don't -- I don't see how that has any relevance to this.
I would -- I didn't understand your answer
to the Chief Justice's question. You -- you say that
there were different institutional values or government
values involved with respect to a -- to a Catholic
priest than there is with respect to this Lutheran
minister. Let's assume that a Catholic priest is -- is
removed from his duties because he married, okay?
And -- and he claims: No, that's not the real reason;
the real reason is because I threatened to sue the
church. Okay? So, that reason is just pretextual.
Would you -- would you allow the government
to go -- go into the -- into the dismissal of the
Catholic priest to see whether indeed it -- it was
pretextual?
MS. KRUGER: I think the answer is no,
Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why?
MS. KRUGER: -- but that is the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is that any different
from the Lutheran minister?
MS. KRUGER: I would begin with looking at
the burdens on association under the balancing test. I
think that the core of the understanding of the
ministerial exception, as it was elaborated in the lower
courts, is that there is a fundamental difference
between governmental regulation that operates to
interfere with the relationship between a church and
those who would govern it, those who would preach the
word to the congregations, those who would administer
its sacraments, on the one hand, and the more public
relationship between a church and a school teacher and
others that provide services to the public at large.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think that's saying
nothing different than what the Chief Justice suggests,
that you think the one is more -- is more important to
-- to Catholics than the other is to Lutherans.
MS. KRUGER: I don't think it's a question
of the importance of either function to the -- the
religious association. It's a question of the realm
of permissible governmental regulation.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but then you have to
say that it's more important to let people go to court
to sue about sex discrimination than it is for a woman
to get a job. I can't say that one way or the other.
So -- so, I'm stuck.
And since I'm really -- this is tough and
I'm stuck on this, I don't see how you can avoid going
into religion to some degree. You have to decide if
this is really a minister, for example, and what kind of
minister. That gets you right involved. Or if you're
not going to do that, you're going to go look to see
what are their religious tenets? And that gets you
right involved.
I just can't see a way of getting out of
something -- of getting out of the whole thing. I don't
see how to do it. So, suppose you said in case of doubt
like that, we'll try what Congress suggested. And now
we have here a borderline case of ministry, not the
heartland case. So, you say, all right, where you have
a borderline case the constitutional issue goes away,
and what Congress said is okay. So, now what you have
to prove is you have to prove that -- the church has to
show that the applicant was disciplined, or whatever,
because she didn't conform to the religious tenets. All
right? That's what they have to show.
And I'm sorry; they maybe only make a prima
facie case, but they got to show it, and if they don't
show that there was at least some evidence to that
effect and that somebody knew about the religious tenet
and there was something like that -- maybe it's in the
air, as is obvious with Justice Alito's question, but
where it isn't in the air, you'd have to make a showing.
Now -- now, I see that's an interference,
but I don't see how you avoid an interference someplace
or the other. Otherwise, you're going to get into who
is a minister.
So, what's the answer to this dilemma? At
the moment I'm making an argument for following what
Congress said, go back and try it that way, and if they
can show in this case and she shows in this case nobody
ever thought of the religious tenet, nobody told me,
they didn't read it, then she's going to win. And if
they come in and show that they really did this because
of their religious tenet, they'll win. What about that?
MS. KRUGER: Justice Breyer, I think that
that is a perfectly appropriate way to come at this
case, although it skips over sort of the initial
inquiry, which is into whether or not the application of
the regulation to the particular employment relationship
results in an unwarranted interference.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it does have the
virtue of deciding a statutory question before a tough
constitutional question. And I agree, with what we
sometimes do, that seems bizarre, but I thought that was
the basic rule.
MS. KRUGER: I think that that's absolutely
right, Justice Breyer. And I think the next question
becomes, with respect to adjudicating a particular case,
whether deciding the case would require the court to
decide disputed matters of religious doctrine or to
second-guess essentially subjective --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if -- if the plaintiff
proceeded that way, would she be entitled to -- I assume
she would -- introduce testimony by experts on
Lutheranism, theologians, professors of religion about
how the -- about this -- this tenet, and it isn't
really -- they might say, well, it's really not that
strong, and it once was, but it's faded, and it's not --
it's not widely enforced.
And then you'd have experts on the other
side, and you'd have a court and a lay jury deciding how
important this really is to Lutherans. Is that how that
would play out?
MS. KRUGER: No, it's not how it would play
out.
JUSTICE ALITO: How are you going to avoid
that? I just don't see it.
MS. KRUGER: Any inquiry into the validity
of a particular religious doctrine is simply irrelevant
to the adjudication of the dispute, which is designed to
find out just one thing, which is whether the --
JUSTICE ALITO: No, it's not irrelevant.
I've seen dozens and dozens and dozens of pretext cases,
and in practically every pretext case that I've seen,
one of the central issues is whether the reason that was
proffered by the employer is the real reason, is an
important reason for that, for that employer, and
whether they really think it's important and whether
they apply it across the board. That's almost always a
big part of the case.
And once you get into that, you're going to
get into questions of -- of religious doctrine. I just
don't see it.
Let me give you an example of a real case.
A nun wanted to be -- wanted a tenured position teaching
canon law at Catholic University, and she claimed that
she was denied tenure because of her -- because of her
gender.
Now, there the university might argue, no,
she was -- and did argue -- she's denied tenure because
of the quality of her -- of her scholarship. And, okay,
now, if you try that pretext issue, the issue is going
to be what is the real quality of her canon law
scholarship? And you're going to have the judge and the
jury decide whether the particular writings on canon law
are -- make a contribution to canon law scholarship.
How can something like that be tried, without getting
into religious issues?
MS. KRUGER: If the only way that the
plaintiff has to show that that may not have been the
employer's real reason was a subjective judgment about
the quality of canon law scholarship, then judgment has
to be entered for the employer, because the plaintiff
has no viable way, consistent with the Establishment
Clause, of demonstrating that wasn't the employer's real
reason.
If, on the other hand, the plaintiff has
evidence that no one ever raised any objections to the
quality of her scholarship, but they raised objections
to women serving in certain roles in the school, and
those roles were not ones that were required to be
filled by persons of a particular gender, consistent
with religious beliefs, then that's a case in which a
judge can instruct a jury that it's job is not to
inquire into the validity of the subjective judgment,
just as juries are often instructed that their job is
not to determine whether an employer's business judgment
was fair or correct, but only whether the employer was
motivated by discrimination or retaliation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Kruger.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF WALTER DELLINGER
ON BEHALF OF THE PRIVATE RESPONDENT
MR. DELLINGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Dellinger.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dellinger?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Could you assume for --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry. Could you assume
for me that -- is it --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Kagan.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KAGAN: I feel like I missed
something.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dellinger, could you
assume for me that there is a ministerial exception
that's founded in the Religion Clauses, and tell me who
counts as a minister, and why this commissioned minister
does not count as a minister?
MR. DELLINGER: I believe that there is an
exemption grounded in the Religion Clauses. It means
that religious organizations will win -- will prevail in
many cases in which a comparable civil organization
would not prevail. I don't think that it makes sense to
approach it in a categorical way of asking --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm just asking you to
assume with me for a moment that there is a categorical
exception and to tell me who you think counts as a
minister, and why the woman in this case does not.
MR. DELLINGER: Well, in our view, if that
was the test, then we would say that the court of
appeals was correct in holding that she was not a
minister, and the reason -- the principal reason is she
carries out such important secular functions in addition
to her religious duties in --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That can't -- I'm
sorry to interrupt you, but that can't be the test. The
Pope is a head of state carrying out secular functions;
right?
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Those are important.
So, he is not a minister?
MR. DELLINGER: Chief Justice Roberts, I do
not want to suggest that it's a very good approach to
try to decide who's a minister and who's not a minister.
That's what's wrong with Professor Laycock's categorical
approach, because it's -- it's both over- and
under-inclusive. It sweeps in cases where there is, in
fact, no religious reason offered --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's only a bad approach if
we adopt your test. Why isn't it a perfectly reasonable
test whether the person -- although the person may have
a lot of secular duties, whether the person has
substantial religious responsibilities?
MR. DELLINGER: And the reason that is not a
satisfactory test is that it fails to take account of
the important governmental interests -- for example, in
this case -- in having everyone have access to the -- to
the courts.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but that isn't -- but
that isn't the problem. The problem, it seems to me, is
I don't know how substantial these interests are
religiously. I don't know how substantial the religion
itself considers what they do from a religious
perspective.
So, let's go back to Justice Alito's
problem. And now on the ministerial issue, we call the
synods, we call the how certain was it, how central is
it to the heart of the religion, what they're actually
doing, and we replicate exactly what he said, in respect
to the problem of religious tenet, now in respect to the
problem of religious minister.
And maybe you can tell me we don't have to
go into the one or the other, but I've had enough of
these cases in the lower court to know they are really
hard. People believe really different things, and I see
no way to avoid going into one or the other, and,
therefore, I think, rather than try this constitutional
matter, let's go to the one Congress suggested.
MR. DELLINGER: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, what do you --
that's --
MR. DELLINGER: If --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the state of the
argument that you're walking into, I think.
MR. DELLINGER: If we go to Congress,
Congress made it quite clear how this case should be
resolved, because Congress expressly did not apply the
religious exemptions of the ADA to retaliation.
JUSTICE BREYER: No. I don't agree with
that. I think -- I think what it says is a religious
organization may require that all applicants and
employees conform to the religious tenets. It put that
in the section defining defenses. The defenses are part
of the right, and when it forbids retaliation, it says
forbids retaliation against an individual for the
exercise of any right granted.
And, therefore, I don't believe that a
person who has failed to violate the substantive section
could be held up normally.
I mean, I don't --
MR. DELLINGER: Well, we differ on that,
but --
JUSTICE BREYER: I can think it's pretty
easy to read that exception, even though it's in a
different subchapter, into the retaliation exception.
And assume for me that that's so.
MR. DELLINGER: It is still the case that it
is a constitutional matter. The state's interest in
allowing citizens to have access to its courts and to
its agencies is paramount in cases like child abuse,
reporting of school safety problems, and others. In
this case, it's -- we are mindful --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it's not paramount.
Would you -- take the firing of the Catholic priest
example. Does that get into the courts?
MR. DELLINGER: No, it doesn't and the
reason is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why not?
MR. DELLINGER: -- that there is -- and that
points out, Justice Scalia, that there are ample
doctrines to protect church autonomy. One is that under
the Establishment Clause, there can be no reinstatement
ordered by a court of someone to an ecclesiastical
position. Another mentioned by General Kruger is
that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But he can sue for money,
right?
MR. DELLINGER: I -- I do not believe that
he can be reinstated or get damages for removal from
the -- from the priesthood.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not reinstated. He can sue
for money. He can sue for, you know, the loss of --
MR. DELLINGER: I think, in that case, that
that is very likely to fail because you're going to run
into (a) issues of religious doctrine or evaluations of
distinctly religious matters, like EEOC v. Catholic
University. Those doctrines still stand.
The problem with the -- this categorical
exception is it sweeps in cases like this one, where the
well-pleaded complaint in this case simply says, I was
dismissed from my employment because I said I was going
to make a report to the EEOC. And she's not seeking
reinstatement. She just wants the economic loss.
There's no need --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if I could just come
back to the example of the canon law professor, because
I still don't see how the -- the approach that the
Solicitor General is recognizing -- is recommending
could -- can eliminate the problems involved in pretext.
So, the -- as I understood her -- her answer, it was
that you couldn't look into the question of whether the
professor's canon law scholarship was really good canon
law scholarship, but you could try the issue of sex
discrimination based on other evidence. So, maybe
there's some stray remarks here and there about a woman
teaching canon law.
Now, a response to that might be that wasn't
the real reason, and if you just look at the scholarship
and you see how miserable it is and how inconsistent it
is with church doctrine, you can see that that's the
real reason.
So, you just cannot get away from evaluating
religious issues.
MR. DELLINGER: This is not a problem that
is unique to ministerial employees, which is why this is
both over- and under-inclusive. When you -- this is a
circumstance in which an organization is going into the
public arena providing a public service, and in that
situation, it ought to be governed by the same rules --
Justice Scalia, you said this case is not like
Employment Division v. Smith, but under Employment
Division v. Smith, we know that the State could forbid a
school from -- a religious school from using peyote in
its ceremonies, but under Petitioner's submission, they
could fire any employee who reported that use of peyote
to civil authorities, and that employee would have no
recourse.
We know that under U.S. v. Lee, an Amish
employer has to comply with the Social Security laws,
but under their submission, the employer could fire
without recourse any employee who called noncompliance
to the attention of the EEOC. We believe that -- that
you can trust to Congress on these hard areas where
there needs to be additional accommodations; Congress
could make them, just as Justice Scalia suggested. The
ministerial exemption has a long history, Justice Alito,
but in almost every circuit, it did not apply to
teachers. So, I mean --
JUSTICE ALITO: It antedated -- did it not
antedate the enactment of the Americans with
Disabilities Act?
MR. DELLINGER: That is correct. When that
was enacted --
JUSTICE ALITO: So, wouldn't -- shouldn't we
assume that Congress -- that Congress assumed that it
would continue to apply to the ADA, just as it applied
to Title VII.
MR. DELLINGER: It -- in the lower courts
did not apply it as sweepingly as to teachers. And I --
I think we have this debate with Justice Breyer about
whether -- whether you can say that Congress
specifically excluded retaliation -- retaliation cases.
But remember that that doctrine emerged at a
time when this Court had a position that religious
organizations could not participate in getting public
funding, even when they were providing remedial services
to low-income students. We repudiated that doctrine in
Agostini v. Felton and where the Court said that you're
entitled to participate in providing public services on
the same basis as all other organizations. That means
that you should comply, in some instances, with the same
rules, when you leave the cloister and go into the
public arena and provide public services.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Gee whiz. Do -- do
Lutheran schools and Catholic parochial schools share
public funds the same way public schools do?
MR. DELLINGER: No, they don't, Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You bet you they don't.
MR. DELLINGER: But they are entitled to.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is this argument
you're making? I don't understand.
MR. DELLINGER: Because we are no longer --
we are no longer of the -- of the Aguilar v. Felton era,
the pre-Employment Division v. Smith where we believe
that no governmental rules or involvement can be had
with these public institutions.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't tell me that fair is
fair, that now, you know --
MR. DELLINGER: No --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- we're just like
everybody else. That's not true.
MR. DELLINGER: It's that we have recognized
in your opinion in Smith and in Justice Kennedy's
opinion in Rosenberger the value of neutrality where you
have doctrines, as we recognize you do not second-guess
religious doctrine. You do not under the Establishment
Clause introduce someone into an ecclesiastical office,
and you do a balancing test to make sure that there's a
sufficient governmental interest, if you're going to
undercut an organization's ability to convey its views.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Dellinger.
Mr. Laycock, 2 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS LAYCOCK
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. LAYCOCK: Two or three points very
briefly: The many distinctions and balancing tests in
their argument show the mess you will be in if you try
to decide these cases. And we may have a line-drawing
problem at the margin, but many, many cases are easy.
The priest, the rabbi, the bishop, the pastor of the
congregation cannot sue. Under their rule, they can
sue --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Laycock, I'm not
sure why the status of the individual matters under your
theory. It seems to me what you're saying is, so long
as a religious organization gives a religious reason of
any kind, genuine or not, for firing someone that's
associated with it, whether minister or not, that that
invokes the exception. Am I hearing your argument
right?
MR. LAYCOCK: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So, why is
there a difference?
MR. LAYCOCK: The position of minister is
categorically special because that is committed to the
church in the system of separation of church and state.
You may have religious questions when they dismiss the
janitor, but the level of sensitivity is not remotely
the same. And -- and --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you would say with
janitors, you can get into the pretext question.
MR. LAYCOCK: The janitor can litigate his
pretext question. Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you're limiting your
test to whether that person is a minister. So, define
"minister" for me again.
MR. LAYCOCK: A minister is a person who
holds ecclesiastical office in the church or who
exercises important religious functions, most obviously
including teaching of the faith.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Laycock, Mr. Dellinger
has some -- some points here about the way in which the
ministerial exception relates or doesn't relate to
Employment Division v. Smith. And it seems to me that
in order to make an argument for the ministerial
exception, you in some sense have to say that
institutional autonomy is different from individual
conscience, that we've said in Smith that state
interests can trump individual conscience. And you want
us to say that they can't trump institutional autonomy.
So, why is that?
MR. LAYCOCK: It's not that institutions are
different from individuals. It is that the
institutional governance of the church is at a prior
step. Smith is about whether people can act on their
religious teachings after they're formulated. The
selection of ministers is about the process by which
those religious teachings will be formulated.
Smith distinguishes those cases --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Might not the Establishment
Clause have something to do with that question --
MR. LAYCOCK: The Establishment Clause --
well, that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- which applies to
institutions?
MR. LAYCOCK: That's the second answer --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Whereas the Free Exercise
Clause applies to individuals, right?
MR. LAYCOCK: This Court has relied on both
Free Exercise and Establishment: Serbian, Kedroff,
Kreshik, Gonzalez. There's a long line of cases all the
way back to Watson distinguishing this problem from the
problem that culminates in Smith.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:05 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
58:13 21:25 22:17 applicable 29:19 assess 6:24 21:3 ban 24:7
33:2 36:23 applicant 41:7 associated 56:3 32:20 51:22
29:23 51:13 53:4,7 application 27:19,22 32:9 29:15 42:14
53:12 28:22 29:20 37:25 38:10 basically 9:20
allegation 8:1,17 9:22 53:14 28:8,9,25 Bayamon 10:23
13:1,2 39:5 31:3,13 57:24 36:16 38:12 behalf 2:4,7,10
allowing 50:2 apply 7:5 9:9 37:3,4 38:25 31:5 45:17
amazing 38:4 23:11 24:23 46:8,19 49:24 belief 5:10 13:10
47:23 27:12,15,19 53:5,14,17 assumed 53:13 35:14 36:21
28:3 arena 52:11 37:21,23 38:13 52:25 54:17
and/or 37:20 argue 3:17,18 available 16:24 bet 54:11
43:14 18:7 24:2 35:9 arguing 15:9 40:16 41:18 10:17 11:1
41:21 51:18 2:2,5,8,11 3:3 aware 7:18,19 big 43:24
answered 25:24 26:20 29:15 a.m 1:15 3:2 bishop 23:1
49:7 anyway 18:19 36:23 58:7 41:4
21:5 37:17,25 38:13 12:13 26:6,10 32:20 33:6,20 classes 25:18
31:10,16 40:25 41:2,3,4 30:5 38:12 35:13,15 36:21 35:25,25 36:11
32:10 41:11,24,24 challenging 36:24 37:10,19 Clause 28:21,22
34:1 42:6,17,18 11:13 37:23 38:17,18 30:20,24 37:20
42:4,10 43:18,24 44:3 change 16:9 39:4,21,25 37:20,23 38:5
48:2,23 45:7 46:21 changes 16:19 41:6 50:14 38:5 44:24
47:25 49:4,25 changing 32:19 52:3 56:11,11 50:15 55:5
50:5 51:1,8 chapel 11:20 56:23 57:14 57:21,22 58:3
24:21 cases 5:20 6:11 Charlottesville 3:19 7:4 8:24 46:9,13
7:13,13 8:10 1:17 8:25 10:16 clear 36:8 49:4
48:17 50:3 27:11,16,24 29:21,22 38:6 client 19:6
58:6 38:21 40:3 circuit 10:21 cloister 54:5
categorize 11:21 children 5:10 citizens 50:2 4:12
17:17 32:12,20 33:4 35:17 19:15 20:11 3:6 26:2,5
52:24 33:9,22 37:10 chilled 34:19 21:8 22:21 commissioned
51:4 54:8 36:11 34:21 36:14,14 16:3,15,16,22
Catholics 40:5 chooses 32:20 46:15 52:19 17:7,7 23:24
central 22:23 30:23 31:5 7:2 8:13 24:5 46:10
7:19,19 ceremonies 3:15,23 4:5 5:8 32:9 34:12,13 communities
8:7 10:19 52:17 7:1,22 8:23 34:25,25 38:11 26:24
14:5,15 cert 7:24 10:6,13,17 39:2 community
23:12 certain 5:12 11:5 12:20 clarify 3:23 30:10
27:5 7:11 27:14 13:9,19 14:7 34:10 comparable
31:22 30:10 45:4 14:24 23:5,21 class 11:7,10,20 46:15
33:22 48:10 24:18 30:22 16:4,4 17:8,17 compelling 6:25
36:9 certainly 7:14 31:6,25 32:12 18:7,9,15 30:12 32:23
42:12 48:20 covered 11:2,11 defer 37:11 21:6 28:11,14
context 26:15 co-worker 23:21 define 6:6 56:20 35:21 37:17
contours 7:11 created 5:2 18:11 49:23 57:7,13
54:4 contract 16:9,23 criminal 7:16 Dellinger 1:22 29:19
contribution 7:4 45:20,21,22 8:15
38:11,14 core 30:8 39:17 D 50:21 51:1 8:7
24:6 45:12 46:24 25:11,12 50:22 54:25 55:11 disciplined 25:3
31:9 33:1 counsel 4:25 deal 5:16 12:22 demonstrating discrimination
49:10 counts 11:24 decide 4:22 denomination 34:12,18,25
15:15 course 10:25 12:16,18 13:3 denying 30:2 51:22
55:21 20:23 19:10 40:17 Department dismiss 56:12
22:15 47:12 55:18 depend 29:17 dismissed 19:12
41:1,5,23 3:11 5:20 6:2 14:23 15:11 22:23 dismissing 20:9
49:3,4,5 8:21,23 10:2 35:15 deposition 22:6 dispel 23:15
19:9 20:21 decides 3:23 22:10 dispute 16:7
26:23 28:3,25 deciding 42:11 derive 29:10 20:2 23:22
32:7 33:20 decision 16:13 determine 45:11 30:18,25 31:2
40:11 42:18 8:22 determining 37:2,12 43:14
58:4 decommission... difference 16:14 27:13
12:17,22,24 deeply 38:13 39:19 56:8 distinction 33:7
39:19 48:1 defense 19:21 8:9 12:10,14 distinctions
E employment 1:7 example 30:14 expressly 49:5
18:17 49:22 52:14,14 57:4 51:14 extension 29:9
ecclesiastical enacted 53:11 19:14 extraordinarily
58:7 30:11 50:16 encouraging 6:5 6:6,11,14,21 extraordinary
54:17 edge 19:3 ensuring 32:24 12:5 18:2
33:16 34:19 24:22 25:19 F
21:4 36:4 10:22 27:21 30:8 fact 6:5 14:1
22:16 EEOC 10:7 entered 44:22 34:24 39:18 16:7 25:17,20
24:22 21:20 51:4,10 entire 16:4 46:8,20 49:22 27:25 32:10
29:16 52:25 entirely 9:25 49:23 51:7 34:14 35:12,13
33:4,5 effect 41:13 entitled 26:9 56:4 57:3,6 47:16
42:19 effective 4:21 33:10 42:22 excerpt 21:23 facts 3:25 8:9
44:1 effort 19:18 54:2,12 excluded 53:20 19:25 23:12
52:3 eight 22:15 Equal 1:7 3:5 exemption 9:8 faded 43:2
55:4 either 40:7 era 54:16 9:10 37:7 fail 51:2
23:13 elaborated 28:3 30:15 32:18 exemptions 49:6 fails 47:23
51:5 39:18 34:17 exercise 28:21 fair 45:12 54:20
eliminate 51:17 ESQ 1:17,19,22 37:20 38:5,11 54:21
16:11 30:24 essentially 42:20 exercises 38:14 14:2 15:18,20
31:6 embodied 20:1 established 56:24 25:25 36:25
emerged 53:21 30:21 exists 27:15 56:25
2:3,12 3:8 employee 13:13 44:23 50:15 experts 42:23 26:21
29:4 32:1 55:4 57:20,22 43:4 fee 35:17
employees 27:14 ET 1:8 explained 19:14 Felton 54:1,16
employer 31:4 3:5 explored 14:17 filled 45:6
26:3,4 employers 27:14 evidence 19:10 26:25 35:14 20:8 21:18
39:1 47:2 31:7,7 21:9 41:12 expressed 21:11 38:3 43:15
employer's 45:2 51:22 expressive 28:7 finely 10:22
fundamental Gonzalez 58:6 happens 33:22 47:24 56:24
21:20 33:21 39:19 51:20 head 47:5 inappropriate
26:1 funding 53:24 good-faith 15:8 health 24:1 23:18
50:7 56:2 39:22 hear 3:3 17:12 including 56:25
19:24 G 3:1 57:14 hearing 8:14,18 inconsistent
27:12,15 Gee 54:7 governed 52:12 8:20,21 9:3,5 52:2
29:9,14 gender 32:20 government 10:7,8 56:4 incorporates
31:15,23 44:7 45:6 3:13,14 5:5,24 heart 6:20 48:11 27:21
34:17 50:17 24:18 26:11 hierarchical indicates 14:8
25:1,8,14,23 6:12,18,19,22 1:3 3:4 4:8,19 indulged 5:20
34:7 go 9:21 10:1 36:2,9 initial 42:6
39:6 40:11,20 grateful 26:17 10:18 28:14,14,24
48:21 49:3 grounded 37:19 33:1 43:12
54:5 46:13 illustrate 22:18 insight 30:8
32:9 going 7:9 17:22 importance 21:4 54:4
20:14 21:17 H 33:4,13 40:7 institutional
42:1 43:10,25 handbook 21:16 35:2 36:20,24 54:19 57:12,25
16:19 51:2,9 52:10 happen 8:2 40:11 43:6,21 instructed 45:10
56:24 55:7 happening 31:3 43:22 47:1,8 insubordination
involving 7:13 10:11,20,24 justify 6:25 42:4,15 43:8
in-house 24:3,7 12:10,23 13:5 45:15 50:17
34:9,23 labor 28:9 29:8
7:2 10:13 issue 14:16,17 17:10,22,23
large 40:1
32:17
28:9 18:6,10,18,22 46:2,4,7,18 Laughter 9:24
33:16,21 29:17 41:4 18:23 20:4,7
12:12 45:24
48:9 20:17,23 21:5 Kedroff 58:5 46:3,6 47:7
36:9,15 51:21 21:15,25 22:2 keeping 24:7 law 5:15 14:24
55:7 issues 9:8 10:19 22:17 23:14 KENNEDY 18:1 20:7
43:19 44:17 25:14,15,16,23 9:15,19 10:5 31:4 33:17
29:17,25 i.e 5:15 27:8,11,16,24 17:5,10 44:14,15,21
32:7,7,16 28:6,16,18,20 Kennedy's 55:1 51:14,20,21,24
35:11 J 29:6,13,24 kind 11:14 laws 35:18 37:7
47:24 janitor 56:13,17 30:4,5,18 31:1 18:24 40:18 52:22
57:9 janitors 56:16 31:10,16,17 56:2 lay 13:21,24,25
41:17,18 15:19 24:24,24 35:24 36:3,8 41:13 Laycock 1:17
24:24 26:3,4 36:19,22 37:2 know 4:14,20 2:3,12 3:7,8,10
40:13 45:8,10 38:16 39:10,11 14:6,18 15:23 6:9,17 7:6,18
judge 24:17 42:4,10,16,21 22:16 34:1 10:14 11:4,12
judgment 9:12 45:18,20,21,23 50:25 52:15,21 13:11,21,25
44:20,21 45:9 48:8,23 49:1,7 Kruger 1:19 2:6 18:4,8,14,21
juries 45:10 50:13,19,24 27:11,20 28:2 20:22 21:3,14
45:8 54:20,23 55:1 32:15 33:12,24 25:5,11,20
38:23 3:10,22 4:25 56:15,19 57:1
36:2,8 55:13,15,23
51:17
7:6,8,14 57:20,24 58:2 37:1,15,18,22 56:6,9,17,22
9:15,19 10:5 Justice's 38:21 39:15 40:6 58:1,4
24:21 22:13,14 33:5 merely 18:9 ministry 3:21 nun 44:4
2:6 26:20 37:13 38:24 merge 38:15,16 24:12,14,25 O
38:25 22:24 23:7 mind 19:16 minutes 26:16 objections 19:23
42:24 mindful 50:5 55:12 21:16 45:2,3
M 12:3,17,21,25 money 50:19,25 11:14 56:24
55:18 making 27:5 14:6,20,23 motion 9:13,17 Occupational
36:20 41:22 15:22 16:10,11 motivated 21:10 occur 22:19
14:13 male 37:11 18:11,15 19:22 motivation 21:2 odd 4:3
58:6 married 23:1 38:25 39:14 N 55:5 56:23
13:13
37:12 15:24 56:3,9,20,21 necessarily 17:8 okay 15:1 18:18
51:19 matter 1:13 56:22 22:18 18:22 39:1,4
11:24 21:6 ministerial 5:1 need 18:11 41:5 44:10
24:21 33:17 48:21 9:5 10:25 11:2 needs 6:8 53:2 once 5:13 10:9
50:1 58:13 11:11 12:5,18 neglected 16:21 10:17 13:1
17:8 20:17 27:20 30:8 never 3:25 31:25 operates 39:20
47:20 32:12 34:2 46:8 48:9 52:8 news 5:7 opinion 10:21
48:17 means 13:12 ministers 3:19 16:21 Opportunity 1:7
35:9 43:24 55:14 39:8 20:2 57:17
26:20 particular 14:7 52:16,18 preventing 51:14
18:25 28:15 physics 12:4 30:20 31:6 professors 42:24
17:14 36:21 42:8,17 piece 21:6 pre-Employm... 51:20
33:5 43:13 44:14 plaintiff 42:21 54:17 proffered 43:20
penalize 5:25 please 3:11 39:7 50:7 promulgate
19:5,7,18 people 3:18 5:14 point 3:23 5:11 priesthood proper 9:21
29:4,8 5:25 13:22,24 6:10 10:11 50:23 proposed 8:15
49:9 13:25 21:7 12:15 29:15 priests 32:4,20 proposition
56:1 27:25 28:8,11 points 10:14,15 33:5 37:10 30:19
46:14 57:15 55:15 57:2 principal 8:6 50:14
54:3 perfectly 42:5 police 8:1,4 21:14 22:5 protected 31:15
perform 14:15 Pope 47:5 principal's protecting 6:12
3:21 24:24 33:8 35:21 19:5 29:11
25:3 16:20 53:22 56:9 prior 57:14 17:19,24
Perich 3:17 43:18 30:11 32:7,16 prove 41:6,6
22:11,13 prayer 17:25 35:10 37:16 provide 35:16
22:4 person 11:13 present 5:21 6:3 8:11 23:7 public 27:3 32:6
12:18,25 13:2 presents 6:1 23:10 31:12 32:16 35:10,16
47:19,19,20 33:17 51:6 52:7 40:1 52:11,11
Petitioner 1:5 23:8 43:17,18 50:4 51:17 punishing 31:8
23:9 28:1 30:6 31:24 pretextual 39:4 process 10:18 pursuing 4:17
38:11 47:21 48:6,13 resolve 31:21
24:24 24:13 29:2 reinstatement 52:6,16 53:22 29:20 32:3,4
16:11 43:19,20,21 relate 57:3 56:24 57:16,18 37:21 38:15,23
45:3 reasonable relationships 53:21 26:21 45:17
reasons 21:8 relative 32:6 56:13 3:16 8:7
12:17 recission 20:14 relevant 16:20 39:1 responses 31:20
22:19 recognition 7:10 29:4 31:21 removing 3:13 responsibilities
31:21,25 recognize 17:15 relied 58:4 3:15 7:5 23:1 15:19 47:21
36:22 18:1 55:3 religion 11:6 repeatedly 8:24 results 42:9
38:3,21 recognized 5:1 16:4,4 18:3,8 32:8 retaliation 8:13
41:15 7:8 32:8 35:19 18:13,15 25:17 replicate 48:12 8:18 25:6 27:6
54:25 26:8 27:22 reply 23:16,19 29:22 34:6,12
56:16,18 recognizing 29:12 30:1,2 24:21 34:25 35:12
51:16 31:11 35:25 report 5:25 45:13 49:6,12
56:12 20:14 38:14 40:17 51:10 53:20
29:1 4:10,12 48:5,11 reporting 5:6,15 review 26:11,12
49:4 recommended religious 5:8,10 5:24 6:5,7 7:16 26:15
5:12 11:23 8:8 50:4 reviewing 16:14
reconcile 33:7 15:23,24 17:8 repudiate 3:16 13:1,4,23
49:22 referred 10:25 28:1 29:4 required 17:20 32:15 34:2
44:3,12 referring 38:10 32:1,21 33:14 requirements 41:3,9 42:16
52:1 Regardless 5:10 33:14 35:14 36:5 47:6 49:12,14
regulation 6:18 36:16,21 37:4 requires 5:15 50:20 56:5,7
20:7 42:8 41:8,13,25 reserve 26:16 rightly 7:15
40:15,18 regulations 42:3,19 43:13 resolution 20:2 rights 27:7,22
43:1,1,6 35:22 44:1,17 45:7 23:22 24:9 28:9 29:9
11:8 30:4,5 35:24 sense 46:16 57:6 52:14,15 54:17 States 1:1,14
26:18 36:3,8 38:16 sensitivity 56:13 55:1 57:4,8,15 27:9 28:11
39:10,11,13 separation 57:19 58:8 37:5
35:5 40:2 47:17 10:16 56:11 smoking 5:13 state's 50:1
37:9 50:6,11,13,19 Serbian 58:5 Social 52:22 status 55:24
46:2 50:24 52:13 series 7:25 socially 35:16 statute 19:3
53:3 54:7,11 seriously 3:17 societal 6:4 statutory 27:6
58:9 54:13,20,23 service 35:16,17 society 5:11 6:8 42:11
Scalia's 38:3 services 15:16 51:16 step 57:15
scholarship 54:2,6 somebody 11:10 strong 43:2
45:3 51:20,21 set 3:12,14 someone's 19:16 stuck 40:14,16
16:5 school 1:4 3:5 sets 35:2 41:18 students 53:25
24:9 7:25 8:2,3,4 severe 4:19 sorry 17:22 subchapter
31:24 16:8,12 32:3 sex 40:12 51:21 33:20 35:5 49:23
33:17 36:10,13 39:25 sexual 5:4 8:1,8 41:10 45:25 subject 36:7
42:14 45:4 50:4 sexually 5:9 47:4 subjective 42:20
52:16,16 7:20 sort 7:17 19:2 44:20 45:9
54:5,18 17:4 22:14 12:10,14 Sotomayor 4:25 15:24 36:5
42:20 55:3 44:19 55:17 special 27:25 10:13 47:21
50:4 secular 11:9 shows 41:24 56:10 substantive
47:1,5,20 significance 53:20 sue 3:19 20:16
Security 52:22 significant 7:13 spun 10:22 33:6 39:3
33:19 see 7:9 17:4 33:7 similar 17:16 squarely 6:20 40:12 50:19,24
36:22,23 37:22,24 38:19 28:4,7 stake 32:7 35:11 50:25 55:21,22
55:25 39:7 40:16,20 simply 4:17 10:7 stand 51:5 sued 7:21
49:8,12 41:18 43:11 43:13 51:8 start 10:10 32:19 37:6
44:2 48:18 sincere 37:4,5 state 10:17 24:4 55:7
seeking 51:10 situation 5:3,16 47:5 49:1 suggest 47:11
15:1,13 seen 43:17,18 52:12 52:15 56:11 suggested 41:1
25:16 selecting 3:13,14 Sixth 16:17 57:8 48:21 53:3
7:5 skips 42:6 stated 20:1 suggests 40:3
23:17 27:6 29:22 theoretical 6:16 time 19:3 53:22 13:21 21:5
teachers 15:23 15:22 55:25 53:15 29:14 38:20
21:1 16:21,23 17:3 thing 7:17 16:12 told 22:20,23 54:14
19:9 32:4 53:6,17 43:15 Tony 15:11 15:5 39:17
23:24 teaches 11:6,9 things 5:23,24 tort 23:23 24:5 understandings
40:25 18:8,13 25:17 7:14 22:12 24:11 25:5,6,8 15:8
teaching 12:3 38:15 48:18 touching 8:10 27:12 51:18
25:22,25 44:4 10:11 11:4 translate 29:1 unfit 24:14
57:16,18 15:7,17,17,20 tribunals 8:24 27:9 28:10
21:19 36:12 18:14 19:25 14:17 44:16 Universidad
10:3 54:20 23:25 25:6,24 troubles 5:4 university 44:5
31:13 tenet 21:2 23:6 26:13,13 27:20 true 15:11,13 44:8 51:5
41:13,25 42:3 30:7 31:20 trump 57:9,10 unwarranted
48:13 32:5,15 33:9 trust 53:1 42:9
19:4 tenure 44:6,9 38:4,8,16 39:9 47:12 48:20 V
47:23 tenured 44:4 39:17 40:2,4,6 51:21 55:17 v 1:6 3:5 37:5
term 14:22,23 42:4,15,16 trying 10:18 38:9 51:4
test 9:22 39:16 48:20 49:2,8,8 two 5:22 8:10 54:1,16,17
16:3,4 tests 8:14,16,19 24:13 41:25 unacceptable various 8:14
55:16 42:13 5:12,13 vendetta 4:9
36:6,6 text 29:10 threatened uncommon viable 44:23
Thank 45:14 20:16,24 39:3 17:13,14 view 28:10
theologians 31:8 36:14 27:4 views 55:8
16:9,24 42:24 three 55:15 undercut 55:8 VII 53:15
45:16 14:1 26 2:7
14:16 40:12 46:21 3
22:4 51:23 3 2:4 4:14,15
34:11 women 5:9
57:9 4
45:4
40 7:9,12
21:8
word 39:23 5
23:11,20 21:12 22:4
22:22 12:21 22:14
51:25 workers 23:24
29:18 workplace
32:19 30:16 32:18
41:23 34:18
44:18 wouldn't 23:2
46:17 24:2 53:12
54:9 writings 44:14
58:7 wrong 47:13
20:9
33:12,12 1
16:25
