IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ALEJANDRA TAPIA, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 10-5400
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, April 18, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
REUBEN C. CAHN, ESQ., San Diego, California; on behalf
of Petitioner.
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Respondent in support of vacatur.
STEPHANOS BIBAS, ESQ., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; for
amicus curiae, appointed by this Court.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
REUBEN C. CAHN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.
On behalf of Respondent in support 13
of vacatur
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
STEPHANOS BIBAS, ESQ.
For amicus curiae, appointed by this Court 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
REUBEN C. CAHN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 48
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 10-5400, Tapia v.
United States.
Mr. Cahn.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF REUBEN C. CAHN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CAHN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
When it instructed courts to recognize that
imprisonment is not an appropriate means of promoting
correction and rehabilitation, Congress intended to end
the practice of sending defendants to prison so that
they might get treatment. The commands of 3582 are
clear on this point: Do not imprison and do not
lengthen prison sentences for the purposes of
rehabilitation. This plain meaning is confirmed by the
structure of the statute.
Under the statute, judges have the power to
sentence defendants to prison but not to prison
programs. Judges once had that power under the Youth
Corrections Act and under the Narcotic Addicts
Rehabilitation Act. With the Sentencing Reform Act
Congress took that power away. That structure makes
sense only because Congress intended that defendants
should no longer be sent to prison for purposes of
rehabilitation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You have, in effect, a
one-way ratchet. If the judge really thinks
rehabilitation is a -- a -- a primary or an important
component of the sentence, then it reduces the prison
term. It could never increase it. So you have a
one-way ratchet.
MR. CAHN: Yes, Your Honor. I believe that
that's correct, that the -- that the way in which the
statute is set up, the logic of 3582 is that a need for
rehabilitation can push the judge, the sentencing judge,
into moving the individual either out of an
incarceration sentence into probation or lower the
sentence to get that individual into supervisory release
where rehabilitation current -- concerns are properly
addressed under the statute.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that's -- do
you think that's consistent with what Congress thought
about rehabilitation when it adopted the Sentencing
Reform Act? And you discuss their thinking, and I think
accurately, in your brief, but was their thinking simply
that rehabilitation is very feasible and it's reasonably
predictable whether somebody can be rehabilitated or has
been rehabilitated so long as it's done outside of
prison, but it just doesn't work in prison? Was that
their thinking?
MR. CAHN: Well, there's relatively little
evidence of what Congress thought about the possibility
of rehabilitating individuals outside of prison. What's
clear is that they doubted that rehabilitation could be
reliably induced in the prison setting. There is at
least one comment that indicates that they doubt that we
know enough about human behavior to rehabilitate
individuals on a regular basis in any case, but they
certainly -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it is strange, isn't
it, that they can take rehabilitation into account for
the supervised release. I mean, that -- that's a
provision, isn't it? As far as supervised release is
concerned, the judge can take account of rehabilitation
in setting the length of the term, but can't do that for
the prison time.
MR. CAHN: Well, certainly with regard to
supervised release, we think, as far as setting the term
of supervised release, the judge is required to take
rehabilitation concerns into account, and that's because
supervised release is intended to smooth the transition
from prison to true liberty and is specifically a
rehabilitative vehicle.
Now, with regard to revocation, to the
extent that that's -- that's at issue, we concur with
the Solicitor General that 3582, by its terms, simply
doesn't govern a revocation of supervised release
because it's not the imposition of a term of
imprisonment but, rather, requiring the individual to
serve a portion of the supervised release term in
prison. So, by its plain terms, it simply isn't
applicable.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, aren't -- isn't
punishment and rehabilitation often flip sides of each
other? If you read what the judge said here, his
comment was this man -- or this woman, I'm sorry, has
been involved in a series -- escalating series of
serious offenses. Logically, she has to be put away for
a long time unless she gets rehabilitation because
there's going to be no deterrence otherwise.
And so, what the judge was basically saying,
in my judgment -- and I don't know why it's not just the
flip, which is without -- without drug treatment, we
can't deter her. And so, this crime, given her
background, deserves this kind of sentence. One of its
by-products is a drug treatment program.
How different is that, or do you really
think that a judge who knows that someone is going to
get a rehab program if they serve 50 months and the
sentencing range is between 45 and 55, do you think that
they're going to take 50 -- they're not going to choose
50 if they understand that there's no chance for this
person to be deterred without drug treatment?
MR. CAHN: The problem is the judge has no
ability to ensure that the individual gets that
treatment if they're sent to prison.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Your client -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's a -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- didn't get, did she?
MR. CAHN: She did not get that treatment,
in fact. And then, she's past the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, if he gave her extra
years in order to get that treatment, he just gave her
extra years without the treatment, as it turned out?
MR. CAHN: Yes, and I don't think that was
that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, wait a minute.
That's the whole point, because what the judge said was
if she doesn't get treatment, she needs to be in jail a
long time because her crime was serious, because she's
just going to continue committing crimes. There's a
chance if she gets it that she won't, but without it,
for sure, she's not, and this is the just punishment she
deserves, this amount of years. That's how I read the
transcript.
MR. CAHN: Well, Judge -- I mean, Justice, I
would disagree with that characterization of Judge
Moskowitz's comments, and I'd point specifically to the
Joint Appendix, really, at pages 25 through 38, and
particularly to pages 27 through 29, where he very
specifically says not that he's imposing this time for
punishment purposes, but really to get her into the drug
program. He says: I'm going to impose a 51-month
sentence, 46 months plus 5 months for the bail jump, and
one of the factors that affects this is the need to
provide treatment. In other words, so she is in long
enough to get the 500-hour drug program.
And then, again, when he actually imposes
sentence, he says -- the judge says: I think a
sentence -- I'm sorry. Well, he says: The court
recommends, strongly recommends, that she participate in
the 500-hour drug program.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you're ignoring his
lengthy discussion talking about she was really going
down the wrong road here. I understand her troubled
past. She gets involved in alien smuggling, which is
very serious. He is talking at length about the
seriousness of the crime.
So what I'm asking you is, if what we see is
a judge who's talking about a flip situation, i.e., you
need to punish strongly because the crimes are serious,
and an added benefit is rehabilitation, why does that
violate 3582? What about 3582, in using the word
"recognizing," stops a judge from saying without
something there's going to be no deterrence?
MR. CAHN: There's nothing that stops a
sentencing judge from saying I think that
incapacitation, retribution, deterrence justify a
sentence of X, and in addition you'll receive
rehabilitative resources while you're inside; make -
you know, make best use of them. There's nothing that
stops a judge from urging a defendant to, in fact, make
better of herself while she's in prison or outside.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you're talking only
about when rehabilitation is the primary purpose? So
the issue here is what was the judge's primary purpose?
MR. CAHN: No. No. Whenever the judge
lengthens a sentence or imposes a sentence of
imprisonment that that judge otherwise would not have
imposed, that is a violation of 3582. You could -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So now we want some
talismanic words where the judge says what I said? This
crime is so serious that the sentence should be X
amount, and now talismanically I'll say rehab is just a
side effect, really the sentence is motivated by -
completely by punishment?
MR. CAHN: I think a fair reading of Judge
Moskowitz's statements at the sentencing was that, in
fact, he was lengthening the sentence for purposes of
rehabilitation -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, how do we -
MR. CAHN: -- to make sure that she got into
the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- can we know that when
the government -- didn't the government ask for 63
months?
MR. CAHN: The government did ask for 63
months. We requested 36 months. There's -- we don't
know with certainty -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the judge came up
with something in between those two?
MR. CAHN: He did, indeed. I believe that
-- that these particular issues are appropriately -- I'm
sorry -- addressed on plain error review in the circuit
court first. I don't think they're essential to the
legal question that's before this Court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The judge did say, didn't
he -- this is on page 27 of the Joint Appendix -- "the
sentence has to be sufficient to provide needed
correctional treatment, and here I think the needed
correctional treatment is the 500-hour drug program."
It couldn't be clearer that he's computing the length of
the sentence on the basis of what correctional treatment
will be received. It "has to be sufficient to provide
needed correctional treatment."
MR. CAHN: Indeed, he did, and I believe
that he was taking into account his own knowledge of the
prison system and what it would require to allow Ms.
Tapia to participate in the 500-hour program.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if -- putting
aside the particular statement here, what if a judge
says: I appreciate that one purpose of punishment is
deterrence; that's what -- and that's what's going to
guide me, and I think you will not be deterred if I only
sentence you for 2 years, but I think if you have to go
away for 3 years, you will appreciate that what you've
done is wrong and you won't do it again.
Is that for rehabilitation, that extra year,
or is it for punishment?
MR. CAHN: I believe that's for punishment
and deterrence, and I don't believe that's an improper
purpose.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, maybe -- what
is the difference between deterrence and rehabilitation?
The person doesn't commit any crimes anymore but wishes
-- wishes she could? Or -- and, well, if she's
rehabilitated, she doesn't want to? It seems to me it's
a very artificial distinction.
MR. CAHN: Well, I don't think it is,
because I think we can look at the purposes Congress had
in mind when it enacted the statute and, in particular,
the system it had in mind, the system it intended to
overturn when it enacted the statute. As I mentioned
before, one of the statements, a prominent statement, in
the Senate report that comes up again and again is
Congress doubted that rehabilitation could be reliably
induced in the prison setting. The system that was
being overturned was one of coercive rehabilitation in
which individuals were sent to prison and prison
sentences were tied to their completion of these
programs.
And so for that reason, I think when you
look at a sentence that's employed specifically to get
somebody into treatment, it is exactly within the
proscription Congress intended.
If there are no questions at this time, I'd
ask to reserve the rest of my time, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Cahn.
Mr. Roberts.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT IN SUPPORT OF VACATUR
MR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Section 3582(a) prohibits courts from
imposing or lengthening a term of imprisonment to
promote a defendant's rehabilitation, including by
facilitating her access to a prison drug treatment
program.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Roberts, could I take
you back to Justice Kennedy's question at the start
about the one-way ratchet? What's the government's
theory about what Congress might have been thinking when
it said you can't think about rehabilitation to sentence
or to lengthen a sentence, but you can think about
rehabilitation to make a decision not to sentence or to
shorten a sentence? What would -- what would have been
in Congress's mind?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, Congress was intending
to reject the prevailing rehabilitation model of
sentencing, and under that model, defendants were kept
in prison until they were declared rehabilitated based
on their participation in treatment programs. And what
Congress determined was that -- that coercing
participation in prison programs that way wasn't -- had
failed and that rehabilitation couldn't be accomplished
reliably in a prison setting. So -
JUSTICE ALITO: That's only one-half of what
the thinking was at the time about rehabilitation. The
thinking was that -- that some people were being
sentenced to coercive rehabilitation, but also that
other people were being paroled before they should be on
the theory that they had been rehabilitated. It was a
general skepticism about rehabilitation, and that is
inconsistent with the idea that you can take
rehabilitation into account in going down, but you can't
take rehabilitation into account in going up.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, Congress expressly
determined to retain -- there were people that said
rehabilitation never works; it can't be a legitimate
purpose of sentencing. And Congress decided not to go
that far. It expressly retained rehabilitation as a
purpose of sentencing. That's reflected in section
3553(a)(2)(D).
But what Congress determined was that it -
that because you couldn't reliably induce it in prison,
it wasn't appropriate to deprive defendants of their
liberty, expend the resources on keeping them in prison
for that purpose, but that -- that rehabilitation
remained a possibility, that other forms of sentencing
were appropriate ways to attempt to achieve
rehabilitation, and that's why Congress expressly
provided that, in imposing a sentence of probation, the
court can require a defendant to participate in
particular treatment programs -
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, but that's different
from saying that a lower sentence can be imposed on the
theory that with rehabilitation outside of prison, a
lengthier sentence isn't needed.
Would you agree that when the guidelines
were mandatory a judge could not sentence to -- to
additional time, certainly not additional time outside
the guideline range for the purpose of rehabilitation,
but the judge also generally could not depart below the
guideline range on the theory that this defendant had
led a life of crime because the defendant lacked
vocational skills or the defendant was dependent on
drugs or alcohol, and with treatment outside of
incarceration, those problems which had led to the
criminality could be alleviated?
MR. ROBERTS: I think it would depend
whether that was an aggravating or, you know, mitigating
circumstance that the guidelines hadn't adequately taken
into account, but I don't think that Congress was trying
to prevent a court from selecting another sentencing
option, such as probation, in lieu of imprisonment
because the court determined that the primary purpose of
the sentence should be rehabilitation, or to shorten the
sentence to speed the defendant from imprisonment to
supervised release, where the court could guarantee the
defendant would participate in programs.
On the other hand, if the -- it was very
important, if there were important purposes of
protecting the public, deterring the defendant from
committing other crimes, deterring generally, then the
court was supposed to sentence the defendant to prison
in accordance with that, even if the defendant also
needed rehabilitation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose -- suppose the
case in which the judge is going to sentence to 2 years
no matter, but there is a 2-year rehabilitation program,
and the defendant is -- the prisoner is receiving that.
Would you say that, at that point, the prisoner is
receiving an imprisonment term and rehabilitation?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, the prisoner is
receiving an imprisonment term -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Hypothetical. The term
isn't affected by the program, but the judge recommends
the program, and the prisoner is receiving it.
MR. ROBERTS: I -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you agree the
prisoner is then receiving both an imprisonment term and
rehabilitation?
MR. ROBERTS: I think the prisoner is
receiving rehabilitative services, yes, in prison -- in
prison, yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- so then, we can use
those two goals of sentencing in -- in the
conjunctive -
MR. ROBERTS: Well -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- and you can have
imprisonment and rehabilitation at the same time?
MR. ROBERTS: Congress intended that, even
if a defendant needed rehabilitation, if the other goals
of sentencing such as deterrence and protecting the
public justified a term of imprisonment, that the court
should impose a term of imprisonment. So Congress -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm just talking about a
matter of diction. You would agree there are instances,
in a hypothetical -
MR. ROBERTS: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- case, where you can
receive imprisonment and rehabilitation at same time?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, yes, but what Congress
wanted courts to -- required courts to recognize was
that imprisonment is not an appropriate means of
promoting rehabilitation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We're -- we're talking
about what the statute says, and the question indicates,
the hypothetical indicates, that those are not mutually
exclusive. You can have imprisonment and rehabilitation
at same time. Now, this case is a little different
because she didn't get it, but let's just talk about the
hypothetical.
MR. ROBERTS: I agree that you can -- there
can be rehabilitative programs in prison. But what
Congress was trying to preclude was imposing
imprisonment for the purpose of providing those programs
or lengthening the imprisonment term for that purpose.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Counsel, assume -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Prisons have multiple
treatment programs.
MR. ROBERTS: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And they have vocational
treatment. Do you -- are you relying at all on the fact
that in the supervised release term, the judge can say
this man or this woman needs rehabilitation, and I want
this program for her, but in the prison setting, the
judge, this judge -- as the colloquy with Justice Scalia
showed, this judge wanted her to be in the program, but
she never got into it because the judge has no control?
MR. ROBERTS: Exactly, Your Honor. The -
under the SRA, judges have no authority to place
prisoners in -- place defendants in prison treatment
programs or to require their participation in those
programs. And Petitioner, in fact, did not participate
in the drug treatment program on which the sentencing
court relied in setting her prison term.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if -- what if
the judge sentences people who commit robbery with
assault typically to 1 year; he can do it 1 to 2 years,
he gives them 1 year; except whenever the presentencing
report says the person has a drug problem and there's a
one-and-a-half-year drug program in the prison, he
sentences those people to one and a half years?
Regularly. But each time he says I recognize
rehabilitation is not a permitted factor; I can send
sentence this person to one to two, I'm going to pick
one and a half.
MR. ROBERTS: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that a problem,
or does it always just depend on what the judge says?
MR. ROBERTS: I think generally you take the
district court at the court's word for what the purposes
of the sentence are, and the sentence has to be
justified by the reasons that the district court gives
in sentencing the defendant.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think you'd say it was
wrong for the district court to do that.
MR. ROBERTS: If the -- if the judge -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But whether it can be
established on appeal that it was wrong is another
matter.
MR. ROBERTS: Yes. I mean, I don't know if
we -- I mean if we -- if the question is we know -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's wrong -- wrong
to do what?
MR. ROBERTS: -- we're inside the district
court's head, and the district court is actually not
recognizing that rehabilitation is an appropriate means
of promoting -- that imprisonment is an appropriate
means of promoting rehabilitation but is in fact doing
that, but not -- but being disingenuous about the
court's reason, then the court is violating the statute,
but we're not going to know that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does the defendant
have the right to raise arguments and inquire into that
in -- in every case? Say that, well, he did say this
was just to -- just to punish me, but here is a list of
10 cases where I think it's like my case and those
people got less.
MR. ROBERTS: I think that -- that it's
going to be hard for the defendant to obtain reversal of
a conviction under those circumstances.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I think it's
going to be hard for the government to defend a sentence
under those circumstances.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I think, as I said, that
the words that you -- that the court is required to give
its reasons for imposing sentence. We presume that
district courts honestly give their reasons for imposing
the sentence and that if the court is indeed lengthening
the term of imprisonment because the court wants the
defendant to be in a program, that the court will say
that's what they're doing, just as Judge Moskowitz did
here. And once this Court makes clear that imprisonment
is not an appropriate means of promoting rehabilitation,
therefore, courts cannot impose or lengthen a term of
imprisonment to serve that purpose, sentencing courts
will follow that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -
MR. ROBERTS: -- map.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the judge said:
I'm going to sentence you to 12 months. Now, there is a
particular facility where there is a drug treatment
program that you can really benefit from, and you'd be a
safer citizen, but I'm not going to mix up imprisonment
and rehabilitation. I'm not even going to make that -
I'm not going to consider it. All I'm interested in is
imprisonment.
Is that an abuse of discretion? The failure
to consider the factors that Congress set forth,
including rehabilitation?
MR. ROBERTS: No. I think that the -- that
the -- what the court has to do is consider all of the
factors, including rehabilitative purposes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, he said I -- no, he
said I'm not going to consider that.
MR. ROBERTS: He's not going to consider
rehabilitation at all in imposing sentence?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.
MR. ROBERTS: Then, yes, that would -- that
would be a procedural error -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right.
MR. ROBERTS: -- to fail to consider it at
all.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So -- so then he must
consider rehabilitation in the context of imprisonment?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes. We don't think that it
precludes -- the statute precludes considering
rehabilitation in the context of imprisonment. What it
precludes is imposing or lengthening the term.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand what
you're saying. It -- it seems to me what the statute
requires is that he consider rehabilitation in imposing
the sentence. Right?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not in imposing
imprisonment.
MR. ROBERTS: It does require -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So he can consider
rehabilitation in deciding what this person will be
required to do in -- in a probated term, but not in how
long he's going to stay in prison before he gets
probation.
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, but the court can also
consider rehabilitation to choose a sentence of
probation rather than a sentence of imprisonment.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose the judge thinks
that a -- a defendant would benefit from a type of a
vocational or educational training that may be available
in prison but that is not available in -- on the outside
in the particular community where this defendant
resides? What would the judge do then?
MR. ROBERTS: I think the court can still
require the availability -- require that as a condition
of supervised release if the judge thinks that that's -
or as probation; if the judge thinks that that's a
really critical provision to have, and the judge can
require the defendant -
JUSTICE ALITO: No, what if that's not -
MR. ROBERTS: -- to reside in the
appropriate place.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if it's not available
in the community on the outside?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, then the judge would
have to decide whether moving from -- whether having the
defendant in a different location than the defendant
ordinarily would be is worth providing that program. I
don't know that -- that there are such specialized
programs that those things can't be accommodated as a
general matter in -- in most communities -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that wouldn't affect
the length of the sentence. Are you talking about, say,
can the judge prescribe that he be incarcerated in a
particular facility?
MR. ROBERTS: The judge cannot prescribe
that he be incarcerated in a particular facility. The
judge can make a recommendation for a particular
facility, but the judge can require participation in a
particular program on supervised release and residing in
a particular area on supervised release or on probation.
So a judge can, if the judge thinks it's important
enough, address that situation if it would arise. I'm
not -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, can a judge who
believes a defendant is dangerous to the public and
thinks that that danger can't be abated without a drug
treatment program, could the judge nevertheless under
3553(a)(2)(C) say, because of the danger to the public,
I'm going to lengthen the sentence?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And in the hopes that a
drug rehabilitation program will be available? I don't
care if it is or it's not; this person's dangerous to
the community otherwise?
MR. ROBERTS: I think the judge can say that
-- that this person needs to be in prison for this
amount of time to protect the public.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what's different than
what the judge did here, where he talked about,
explicitly, on page 26, "it has to deter" -- the
sentence has to deter criminal conduct by others, and it
has to protect the public from further crimes of the
defendant, and the sentence -- that's a big factor here,
given her failure to appear and what she did out on
bail.
So, if the sentence has a dual motive, is
that okay?
MR. ROBERTS: That is -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, I know that you're
-- there's -- there's an issue about whether this
transcript can be read as a dual motive or not.
MR. ROBERTS: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But my question is, is a
dual-motive sentence permissible?
MR. ROBERTS: No, a dual-motive sentence -
if one reason that the judge is selecting the term is to
impose a sentence of imprisonment, that violates the
prohibition. However, if the sentence would have been
the same otherwise, then that would be harmless error.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't that what "dual
motive" means? Unless -
MR. ROBERTS: I think -- yes. We -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You want talismatic
words. I would have picked the sentence anyway.
MR. ROBERTS: We -- we think that -- that in
this case the Petitioner won't be able to show plain
error, won't be able to show an effect on her
substantial rights on remand.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Bibas.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHANOS BIBAS
ON BEHALF OF THE AMICUS CURIAE
MR. BIBAS: Thank you. Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Sentencing judges may consider needed
correctional treatments in deciding both whether to
imprison and for how long. The Sentencing Reform Act
rejected the rehabilitation model's unstructured
sentencing procedures designed to confine every inmate
indefinitely until a parole board found he had reformed
himself.
It did not, however, forbid treatment
programs targeting specific defendants' pathologies,
such as the drug treatment at issue here. The Act
rejected one means of promoting rehabilitation that was
bound up with indeterminate sentencing, not
rehabilitation itself.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I could follow your
argument much better if the judge could say that this
specialized program -- as I am making that a term of
your incarceration. The disturbing factor about your
argument is the judge can only recommend; the judge has
no way of making sure that this person will be in prison
longer and get the treatment the -- the judge wants,
because the judge can't control where the person will
serve her sentence and what treatment will be available
for her.
MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, I don't believe
that's a large concern for several reasons. The first
is this Residential Drug Abuse Program, RDAP, is given
to 93 percent of eligible defendants. The only reason
Petitioner did not get it is because she affirmatively
refused, said she was not interested.
The second point I would make is that if we
look at the legislative history, the Petitioner and the
government's reply brief say, well, this Act stripped
judges of the power to do this. The Senate report makes
clear this was a simple administrative simplification
designed to make it clear that the Bureau of Prisons
ultimately controlled all of these things but that at
the same time it was supposed to listen seriously to
judges' recommendations. It was not -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wasn't there something -
you responded that she didn't -- she said I'd rather
not. But wasn't there something about placing her
with -- in the same facility as another inmate? Wasn't
that involved?
MR. BIBAS: There were two distinct issues
here. One was putting her in the particular prison that
was named was not possible because she needed to be
separated from another inmate. The other is whether she
could be put in a facility that had one of these
programs. About half of prisons -- Federal prisons do,
and the reason she didn't get that was because she
refused, she said she wasn't interested.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know why you
consider that that solves your case, that that makes
everything okay. She refused it. She would not have
been able to refuse it had it been made a condition of
her supervised release. You either take the program or
you go back to jail. I mean, that's -- why is that an
insignificant difference?
The fact is the judge has no control over
whether this person gets the rehabilitation that was
supposedly the purpose of the -- of the extended prison
term.
MR. BIBAS: A couple of -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It makes no sense.
MR. BIBAS: I just note, Your Honor, first
of all, the statute requires judges to make predictions
about deterrence. That is a forward-looking matter.
The fact that a judge must predict the future calls for
appropriate skepticism and a statement of reasons in
appellate review. It does not mean that a judge may not
consider deterrence because it's a speculative
possibility.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're -- you're not
responding to my point. You're -- you're -- you're
making a different point. I'm saying that it's -- it -
it -- it does not help your case that the reason she did
not get the rehabilitative treatment that this judge
wanted her to get was that she simply refused it. Why
does that help your case? She couldn't have refused it
if, as the other side says, had to be the case, he had
imposed this rehabilitative measure as a portion of
supervised release. Then she would have had to take it.
MR. BIBAS: Your Honor is correct that there
is a contingency involved here, but the contingency
involved is no greater than the contingency involved in
other sentencing decisions judges must make and that is
a reason for skepticism. It doesn't imply that the Act
meant to disable judges from doing this.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Bibas, I -- I -- I have
to say I don't really understand the whole premise of
your argument. You're basically saying the judge cannot
consider rehabilitation, but the judge can consider
educational programs, vocational programs, treatment
programs, and so forth.
I think most people would think that all of
those things are rehabilitation, that there's nothing
left over when you say that the judge can consider all
of those things.
MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, I don't believe you
phrased correctly. Our point is not that judges can't
consider rehabilitation. It is that judges may not use
imprisonment as the means of promoting rehabilitation.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes. Well, I'll ask the
same question.
MR. BIBAS: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: You're saying they can
consider rehabilitation in imposing a sentence, they
cannot consider rehabilitation in imposing a sentence,
but they can consider all these programs in imposing a
sentence. And I'm saying what's the difference between
all these programs and rehabilitation? Once you say
they -- they can consider all these programs, what's
left over that they can't consider?
MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, I think the answer
is clear if we look at the statutory text. It's in
Petitioner's brief, the blue brief at Appendix 2 and
Appendix 3. The contrast becomes clear if we look at
3553(a)(2)(D). There were four simple purposes of
punishment the judge must consider. And (D) is not
everything that was ever considered rehabilitation. It
is a specifically limited subset of rehabilitation.
It must be needed, must be educational or
vocational training, medical care or other correctional
treatment, and it must be in the most effective manner.
So, judges may no longer rest on what Judge
Frankel and the -- the Senate decried as the eerie
nonsense that everyone can be rehabilitated simply by
throwing them in prison or simply by having everybody
going to social workers or classes, but because
criminality is not a pathology that needs treatment.
But he and the Senate report contrasted that with drug
treatment, which is very different, because there's a
diagnosed pathology, there is a criterion for success
that's measurable, and there's a fixed limited time.
And that third point is crucial here,
because both Petitioner and the government in their
argument said that you can't keep someone in jail tied
to completion of programs or keep them in until he has
been rehabilitated through treatment. The indeterminant
aspect here was a crucial part of what Congress was
targeting that's very different from -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You haven't read the -- the
crucial provision of the statute. Yes, you read the -
the section entitled imposition of a sentence, but there
is another provision in the statute which says
imposition of a sentence of imprisonment. You can
indeed consider those factors in imposing the sentence,
which includes probation, supervised release and any
other matters. But what -- what 3582(a) says is that
the court in determining whether to impose a -- whether
to impose a term of imprisonment as opposed to just
parole or -- or supervised release, and if a term of
imprisonment is to be imposed and determining the length
of term shall consider the factors set forth in, that
you mentioned in 3553(a) to the extent they are
recognizing that imprisonment is not an appropriate
means of promoting correction and rehabilitation.
You have to reconcile the two sections. And
the way to reconcile them is to say that the former
applies to sentencing in general but when you're dealing
with the length of a sentence of imprisonment or whether
there should be any imprisonment at all, you cannot
consider rehabilitation.
MR. BIBAS: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know any other way
to read it.
MR. BIBAS: No, Your Honor. The main clause
of 3582(a) says shall consider the factors set forth in
3553(a). It does not say (a)(2) -- (a), (a)(2)(B) and
(a)(2)(C). As the very next section of the sentencing
format goes, 3583 says consider only these purposes, but
3582 says consider all of these factors to the extent
they apply in a particular case.
Now, the way Your Honor reads the
recognizing clause is as if it said, except the court
shall not consider in imposing or lengthening a sentence
(a)(2)(D) or if it tracked the language of (a)(2)(D).
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I don't know what else
recognizing that factor would consist of, except you
won't use that factor in deciding imprisonment or length
of term of imprisonment.
MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, we've looked through
the entire United States Code. We have not found a
single instance in which a recognizing clause is used to
mean an exception -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you tell me what it
means here, then. What, he -- he should say, you know,
I recognize that rehabilitation is not a -- an
appropriate factor to take into account in determining
the length of your sentence or the -- or whether you
should go to jail at all. That said, I'm going to send
you to jail in order to rehabilitate you.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that all it means?
MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, a recognize -- we
found dozens of instances in the U.S. Code where
recognizing introduces a statement of principle or
policy or rationale. Petitioner or the government cite
no instances in which it's used to impose a flat ban.
What we point out is -- Justice Kennedy made
the point that logically there is a distinction between
the imprisonment and the treatment that occurs during
the imprisonment. And if it's recognizing that the
imprisonment is not an appropriate means of promoting
correction rehabilitation, that itself bans a
penological policy that was known in our history and had
been known into the 1970s.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the judge only has the
power to impose imprisonment. He does not have the
empower to impose anything else during the imprisonment.
I mean, what you're saying might make sense if indeed he
could prescribe some treatment during imprisonment, but
he can't. There are prisons -- and why can't he, by the
way? Why has he been prevented from doing that,
although he's allowed to do it during supervised
release? Does that make any sense, if indeed, as you
say, he can take that into account in imprisonment?
MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, judges in supervised
release, it -- it -- it's hard to understand why in
3583(e)(3) judges may consider rehabilitation in
deciding whether to impose a term of imprisonment on
resentencing, and we've been offered no logical
explanation as to why that same logic Congress would
have meant a flat ban here that it didn't spell out in
an initial sentencing.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It -- it does seem to me
that the principal trouble I have with your argument is
that, as Justice Scalia mentioned, the judge can't be
certain that the treatment will -- will be provided.
And in an answer to an earlier question you said, well,
90 percent of the time the judge's recommendation is
followed, the program is -- is offered.
Suppose we're only 10 percent of the time?
Suppose only 10 percent of the time could or did the
Bureau of Prisons follow the judge's recommendation,
wouldn't your interpretation of the statute then be very
difficult to sustain?
MR. BIBAS: Justice Kennedy, while I agree
that the reliability of the prediction is an important
factor, I think this is dealt with through the ordinary
appellate review that this Court has fleshed out in
Rita, Gall, and Kimbrough. If there's 93 percent
likelihood, predictability, here, then the judge can
give it a fair amount of weight as the judge can give a
fair amount of weight to deterrence calculations. If
it's highly unpredictable, then the judge shouldn't be
putting very much weight on that at all.
And I would point out particularly that if
we look at those appellate review cases, it's very
relevant that the judge here imposed a sentence within
the range. As Justice Sotomayor pointed out, there are
multiple explanations going on here; the judge arrives
at a sentence within the range. It's hard to tell here
that it's even a but-for cause versus just a hope.
The -- the thicket of issues that
Petitioner's and the government's reading forces
appellate courts into in disentangling sentences that
are otherwise reasonable, that are within the range that
could have been justified any number of ways, counsels
against requiring us to say one factor is categorically
forbidden in the sentencing format.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Bibas, just practically
speaking what does this clause instruct a court not to
do in your view?
MR. BIBAS: It instructs a court to bear in
mind that simply locking someone in a cell away from his
criminal associates, away from his pattern of life, is
not itself going to reform him. We've been down that
road.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, really who thought
that? This was 1984. When people talked about
rehabilitation, they were talking about drug programs,
they were talking about education programs, they were
talking about vocation programs. They were not talking
about some idea that had passed away long since, that
just locking you in a cell was going to rehabilitate
you.
MR. BIBAS: A couple of responses that I
think show that to be incorrect. The first of these is
most of the references in the Senate report are to just
generic open-ended education, vocation, and counseling.
We see maybe one reference to alcohol and drug treatment
in there.
The second of these is that idea of
isolation, though it had diminished, was still alive in
the 1970s. There was a widely cited manual for judges,
the "Guides for Sentencing" in 1974, that said that
confinement, quote, "may be necessary to break criminal
associations and in time to modify antisocial attitudes
and tendencies."
My third point is this is not just about the
substantive idea of rehabilitating. The government and
Petitioner point out that there was a rehabilitation
model, a procedural approach here that was bound up with
that history of the penitentiary, and the approach was
that, in the Senate report, the rehabilitation model
ties prison release dates to successful completion of
programs.
We don't have open-ended, unpredictable
sentences any more. The Sentencing Reform Act in
multiple ways gets rid of that unpredictability -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But wouldn't your
proposal lead to unevenness in sentencing? If you -- if
you're right, then this choice of extending a term to
accommodate a drug program, that could be -- the judge
would have the option. I think nearly half of the
people who are incarcerated have a drug addiction. So
one judge might say: I'm not going to let that person
out until they -- they should at least have a chance to
get into this program. And another will say: I can't
control that; I'm not going to subject -- you would be
introducing that, just what the framers of the Reform
Act were trying to get away from, that this swings from
one judge to another, and you're dealing with almost
half the prison population.
MR. BIBAS: A couple of points. One is,
statistically I think the number is lower than you say.
The RDAP program here requires 12 months before
admission having a provable addiction or abuse, so it's
about 30, 35 percent of inmates.
But granted that issue, that's why the
Sentencing Reform Act requires statements of reasons,
subject to appellate review. If judges are varying
widely, this Court's case law in Rita, Gall, and
Kimbrough allows appellate courts to harmonize what
they're doing. If this judge had added 5 years to her
sentence, this would be a different case. Judge
Franklin and others were concerned about sentences
exceeding 5 years, open-ended, airy hopes that everyone
will be cured of criminality.
We're talking about a sentence within the
range, sentence that, if a few lines of the transcript
had been whited out we wouldn't be here. A judge could
have reached the same sentence on a lot of different
grounds. And are we going to tell judges you can
consider other things, but if you muse about this ground
you can't offer a thoughtful, reasoned justification -
per se automatic reversal.
There are only a couple of places in the
Sentencing Reform Act that have categorical bans and
they don't read the way this one does. The very next
section in the Act, 3583(c) says: "In considering a
supervised release sentence, a judge shall consider the
factors in 3553(a)(1), (a)(2)(B), (a)(2)(C), and
(a)(2)(D).
It skips over retribution explicitly where
Congress meant to omit it.
The other place in the Act where Congress
explicitly banned the factor was in 28 U.S.C. 994(d).
The commission, the sentencing commission, not a judge,
shall ensure that the guidelines are entirely neutral
with respect to race, sex, creed, national original, and
socioeconomic status. When Congress meant to ban
something, even within the range, it spoke much more
clearly. What it did usually was it gave some guidance
to the sentencing commission. And section 994 has a
number of places where the commission shall do this, the
commission shall ensure that this is generally an
appropriate or inappropriate.
But it left a range, and it simultaneously
said judges should individualize sentences within that
range. 991(b)(1)(B) says there are factors not
adequately taken into account in the guidelines that can
lead to aggravating or mitigating, and judges can also
adjust sentences to individualize them within the range.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you articulate an
interpretation of this provision that would guide
appellate review? If rehabilitation can always be a
factor, then when and how does a court of appeals
determine whether a judge has abused his or her
discretion? You said 5 years, if the guideline range
presumably is 24 months and the judge adds 5 years. But
how do you define that?
The simple answer is if the judge is
imposing the sentence because of rehabilitation, they
can't do that. Is that what you're arguing or are you
arguing they can do it except within a range? I'm not
quite sure I understand how far you're going.
MR. BIBAS: I understand, Justice Sotomayor.
Our primary argument is that 3582's recognizing clause
isn't about this at all. This is dealt with by
3553(a)(3)(D), what is it that's needed correctional
treatment, and if it fits within (a)(2)(D), ordinary
appellate review.
If the Court is not comfortable with that
and thinks that there ought to be more discouragement,
we do have a fallback argument that says that the Senate
report talks about discouraging using this as the sole
basis, right, but that if it's one of several factors,
if it appears to be given a proper balanced weight, then
there's no need to be so suspicious of it. And indeed,
when we look at the case law in the circuits -- and
we've surveyed the most recent 150 or so cases on
rehabilitation in the courts -- we see very rarely -
first of all, we haven't found any cases where judges
are putting someone into prison versus out based solely
on this.
We find only a couple of cases where judges
appear to be lengthening a sentence solely because of a
desire to put someone into drug treatment. Usually,
what's happening is something like what happened here.
The judge is balancing three or four factors; it's in
the mix; the judge might well have gotten the same
result anyway.
Are we going to forbid courts to have that
kind of reasoned, open review, subject to appellate
review, in order to ban something that isn't banned in
the way that 994 bans race and sex or 3583 bans
retribution? It's simply not the way the statute words
things elsewhere and it's not the wording Congress chose
here, especially since this -- it's a subordinate
clause, it's hidden, it's not at all clear in
undercutting the main clause of 3582 in saying shall
consider all the factors of punishment here to the
extent they apply in an individual case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I still find it hard,
if I were going to write the opinion, to rule for your
position to ignore the 90 percent-10 percent
hypothetical problem I have, to say, well now, 90
percent of the time the judge's rules are going to be
followed or the judge's recommendations are going to be
followed. That's an odd way to support the
interpretation of the statute that we have to -- that we
have to adopt in order to rule in your favor because, as
I say, suppose his position, his recommendation, were
followed only 10 percent of the time?
MR. BIBAS: Justice Kennedy, first of all,
there are programs out there for which the judge's
recommendation is a prerequisite and 100 percent of the
people who get into the program are ones whom the judge
recommended. There are some drug education programs, I
believe a mental health or sex offender program, where
there's a link between those two. It's just this
particular program that we're talking about.
The second point is, as I said, one of the
explicit purposes of sentencing is deterrence. A judge
can never guarantee that he's going to deter a
particular offender from committing a crime in the
future. The judge has to make an educated prediction
with the help of the probation or pretrial services
officer's report, and that's subject to appellate
review. But the fact of the prediction, the fact of
uncertainty about whether someone will be deterred or
not doesn't disable the judge from weighing that
prediction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If -- if it is as you say,
why -- why did Congress leave it up to the Bureau of
Prisons to decide whether this person can enter into a
rehabilitation program, and not allow the judge to
prescribe that the person will enter into it?
Why? What -- what possible sense could that
make?
MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, if you will bear
with me for your colleagues who like legislative
history, and I quote from the Senate report, that this
change is designed only to simplify the administration
of the prison system, at page 141 of the Senate report.
It was not designed to introduce any substantive change
in the role of judges or the Attorney General.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Judges can prescribe it?
MR. BIBAS: No, the change was made -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's a substantive
change, they can't prescribe, right?
MR. BIBAS: But it was not intended to
affect the authority of the Bureau of Prisons or the
judge in their -- in their roles and input. It's just
that the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand what
you're saying. Was it not a change that the judge could
not prescribe a certain program for the prisoner?
MR. BIBAS: It -- it was -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It was a change?
MR. BIBAS: Yes, it was, actually.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? Why would they have
that change if the statute reads the way you say? What
sense does it make to still allow the judge to take this
into account, but affirmatively deprive him of the power
to do what he wanted to do?
MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, I believe that there
were some legal issues that were coming up in litigation
over prison conditions and sentencing in the years
leading up to this Act, where there was unclarity as to
whether the Attorney General or the judge or the Bureau
of Prisons -- whose decision ultimately was being
challenged in this litigation. And the Act made that
change, but it was designed only to simplify the
administration. It was not meant to say that judges
therefore are cut out of the process, and unfortunately
that's all that we know about that provision.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the Senate report
says that the provisions we've been talking about make
clear a defendant should not be sent to prison only
because the prison has a program that might be good for
him. Drug dependence in the committee's view generally
should not play a role in the decision whether or not to
incarcerate the offender. Is there something that
conflicts with that?
Because that was pretty clear indication of
the committee's view.
MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, the committee in
dealing with drug dependence said the commission shall
decide whether drug dependence, etcetera, is relevant,
shall take it into account only to the extent that it is
relevant; and the commission decided as with most of
these other factors that drug dependence shall not be
used ordinarily in sentencing outside the range, but
left it to the judge to decide within the range.
As to your -- so judges have some
flexibility in using drug dependence for
within-guideline sentencing.
And then on your point about a person should
not be sent to prison only because the prison has a -
JUSTICE BREYER: You put a great deal of
weight on the word only. I guess if it's a dual motive
we don't really know what would have happened in the
absence of one of the motives. So should we send the
whole thing back for resentencing?
MR. BIBAS: No, I think this goes to Justice
Sotomayor's question. That very often these things are
bound up and judge ought to be able to consider it in
the mix, especially when it's not just a program that
quote, "might" be good for him this -- this airy hope
that everybody who has criminality can be cured -- but
specifically there's a specific targeted program.
Particularly where, as here, Congress made a
point of approving of in-prison drug treatment as
effective to reduce recidivism where we have a fixed
term and a specific diagnosis that Congress has funded
and encouraged with a 12-month sentence reduction.
If this Court has no further questions, the
statute allows judges to consider needed correctional
treatment programs in prison sentencing. The judgment
of the court of appeals should therefore be affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you.
Mr. Cahn, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF REUBEN C. CAHN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CAHN: Thank you, Your Honor.
Let me begin with a couple points about the
plain language of this statute. When a defendant is
sent to prison so that he can gain access to
rehabilitative programs, imprisonment is used as a means
to promote rehabilitation. Counsel stresses only the
imprisonment portion of that sentence, but it is
strictly speaking within the very prohibition that
Congress has articulated.
Beyond that I would point to 3553(a)(2)(D),
and counsel has left off the last few words in
discussing that purpose of sentencing that's set out
there. Congress required that these rehabilitative
resources be provided in the most effective manner. As
is discussed in the brief, Congress had determined with
regard to in-prison rehabilitation programs that they
simply were not the most effective manner.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, this makes a
lot of sense when we're talking about huge disparities
in a guideline sentence, versus one where the judge goes
outside the guidelines or imposes a greater sentence
than otherwise the guidelines would determine for
rehabilitation purposes.
But not infrequently guideline ranges are
within very narrow scopes, and in fact there are some
prison advantages that you get from being sentenced to a
year and a day that you don't get if you're sentenced to
12 months; and district courts routinely will choose
between a year and a day or 12 months based on knowledge
about what might be available if you're there for over a
year. Why is that wrong?
What would be the difference? You see, I'm
having a hard time in this case, because if a judge
comes in and says guideline range is 50 to 60, I think
in the middle is perfectly fine, I just don't know
whether I should give him 54 or 55 months, but I know
that at 55 months there's this kind of program
available. I'm going to do -- I'm going to -- you know,
it is -- judging is not so precise that you know exactly
where to go within the small ranges, and so there are
many factors that influence that decision. Why should
we announce a rule that says to a judge in those
situations, don't give him that extra month?
MR. CAHN: Because Congress has prescribed
it. Because Congress made the choice that it shouldn't
be allowed; and it may seem unreasonable to all of us,
but Congress made a determination that it wasn't
appropriate to lengthen these sentences or impose them
for purposes of rehabilitation.
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you arguing for
something like a plain statement rule, if the judge says
plainly, I'm increasing your sentence so you can get
rehabilitation, then there's a problem? Or would there
possibly be situations in which one could infer that the
desire to provide for rehabilitation in prison had
influenced the sentence? For example, choosing a
sentence that is just long enough to allow somebody to
take advantage of a particular rehabilitation program in
a -- in a prison, or where the judge goes on and on and
on about the need for rehabilitation for this -
vocational training for this prisoner?
MR. CAHN: It's possible, but I think that
this Court entrusts sentencing judges to follow its
mandate, and if this Court says you're not to increase
sentences for the purposes of getting people into
rehabilitative programs, then you should state why
you're putting people in prison, that we can count on
those reasons to be honestly and truthfully given.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Bibas, you were appointed by this Court
to brief and argue this case. You have ably carried out
that responsibility, for which the Court is grateful.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:02 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
48:3 administration anymore 12:3 42:13,20 48:19 49:24
51:20 28:17 appeal 20:9 articulate 41:24 basis 5:11 11:6
adopted 4:21 appear 26:3 43:7 aside 11:14 behalf 1:15,19
49:21 appears 42:23 assault 19:13 behavior 5:10
45:23 36:24 37:7,15 associates 37:25 10:20 11:9,23
28:11 46:10 43:14 44:24 38:22 44:15 46:12
aggravating 11:1 31:24,25 attempt 15:3 benefit 9:5 22:3
11:10 agree 15:12 17:3 applies 33:18 Attorney 45:17 best 9:14
16:1 17:21 18:12 apply 34:6 43:23 46:16 better 9:16 27:23
35:25 36:21 appointed 1:21 authority 19:5 Beyond 49:5
46:10 airy 40:12 48:5 2:11 51:15 45:23 Bibas 1:20 2:10
alcohol 15:20 appreciate 11:15 automatic 40:21 27:4,5,7 28:7
27:11,18 alien 8:24 14:24 15:3 18:3 25:16 28:5 33:25 34:15
30:20 ALITO 4:19 14:5 20:17,18 21:19 49:25 50:8 35:3 36:1,21
40:5,23 15:8 23:21 24:8 24:10 30:2 a.m 1:13 3:2 37:20,23 38:11
41:6 24:11 50:20 33:14 34:22 51:19 39:24 42:12
alive 38:18 35:12 41:17 44:10 45:11,19
51:2 10:21 back 13:13 29:15 big 26:2
April 1:9 background 6:23 board 27:14
arguing 42:9,10 balancing 43:10 break 38:21
37:2,3 argument 1:12 41:11 43:15 47:21
49:10 15:14 coercive 12:16 38:21 controlled 28:19
certainty 10:17 14:8 confirmed 3:18 conviction 21:6
45:5,23 chance 7:5,25 colloquy 19:1 Congress 3:13 30:16
39:17 comes 12:13 3:25 4:1,20 5:5 correction 3:13
42:18 14:15,18,22 11:4,6,8 27:10
34:3 41:2 Chief 3:3,9 11:13 comment 5:9 22:9 32:23 36:6 Corrections 3:23
12:1 13:1,5 6:14 41:5,6,11 43:18 correctly 31:8
4:10 5:4 20:23 21:7 27:3 commission 41:8 49:4,8,10 50:14 18:17 21:23
7:7,13,18 27:7 48:17 41:8,14,15,16 50:15,17 25:8 27:3 49:1
9:9,20 10:5 51:14 47:9,12 Congress's 49:6,13 51:14
choice 39:12 commit 12:3 13:20 counseling 38:14
12:7 50:15 19:12 conjunctive counsels 37:17
48:18,19 choose 7:4 23:19 committee 47:8 17:11 count 51:12
50:14 49:23 committee's 47:2 consider 22:6,9 couple 29:21
choosing 51:1 47:7 22:12,15,16,22 38:11 39:24
17:24 21:6,9 completely 10:4 34:1,4,5,9 36:3 16:13 17:18
20:25 21:2 cite 35:6 completion 12:18 40:19 41:1 19:10 20:1,3,6
29:11 cited 38:19 32:21 39:5 43:22 48:3,14 20:16,21 21:11
34:6 citizen 22:4 component 4:7 considered 32:3 21:14,15,16,18
42:25 classes 32:12 computing 11:5 considering 23:2 22:12 23:18
50:3 clause 33:25 concern 28:8 40:25 24:2 27:8 33:8
34:8,17 37:21 concerned 5:17 consist 34:12 34:8 36:24
clear 3:16 5:7 concerns 4:17 context 22:25 42:18 48:13,16
31:23,25 43:20 concur 6:3 contingency courts 3:11 13:7
clearer 11:5 29:13 continue 7:24 21:21 37:15
40:7 50:11 determining 33:8 distinction 12:6 employed 12:21
10:1 15:18 decried 32:9 11:17 45:1 20:15,16 21:13 encouraged
defend 21:8 deterrence 6:18 49:23 48:12
16:12 26:1 15:6,17,18,19 12:2 17:17 doing 20:19 41:16
38:21 16:14,19 17:16 44:19 35:22 40:9 entire 34:16
40:13 23:22,25 24:7 16:12 doubted 5:7 entitled 33:2
24:15,15 25:9 diagnosed 32:16 12:14 entrusts 51:8
3:21 4:1 13:23 difference 12:2 13:10 19:9,15 escalating 6:15
defendant's 13:9 different 6:25 28:9 32:14 38:5 ESQ 1:15,17,20
32:2 34:10 dependence 47:2 diminished 38:18 dual 26:5,10,19 48:6
41:3 47:9,10,13,17 disable 30:21 47:22 evidence 5:5
dependent 15:19 45:2 dual-motive exactly 12:22
deserves 6:23 42:19 exceeding 40:12
47:9 desire 43:8 50:25 discuss 4:22 education 38:6 explanations
47:10,15 determination discussion 8:22 23:23 31:1 32:5 explicitly 25:24
determine 42:3 37:15 effect 4:4 10:3 expressly 14:15
34:13 determined 14:1 20:20 effective 32:7 extended 29:19
14:16,22 16:4 disparities 49:14 48:10 49:9,12 extending 39:12
47:3 eligible 28:10
43:23 flip 6:12,21 9:3 28:22 39:10 guarantee 16:7 48:21
follow 21:22 give 21:11,13 44:20 hope 37:12 48:5
50:13 51:8 given 6:22 26:3 guidance 41:13 40:12
25:2 forbidden 37:19 29:15 34:24 49:15,19 50:4 18:7,11 44:2
29:6 forces 37:14 50:10 guidelines 15:12
18:22 19:8 37:19 goes 34:4 48:1 49:16,17 idea 14:12 38:8
29:17 former 33:17 49:15 51:4 Guides 38:20 38:17,25
44:25,25 forms 15:2 going 6:18 7:1,4 ignore 44:1
forth 22:9 31:2 7:4,24 8:11,22 H ignoring 8:21
34:12,13 forward-looking 14:14 16:17 29:7 39:14,23 important 4:6
36:23 29:25 19:20 20:22 hand 16:9 16:10,10 25:5
41:7 42:2 found 27:14 21:5,8 22:1,4,5 happened 43:9 36:22
33:5,12 four 32:1 43:10 23:16 25:13 happening 43:9 17:19 21:20
41:2,20 framers 39:20 32:12 34:24 hard 21:5,8 36:2 26:16 33:8,9
43:10,22 Frankel 32:9 37:10 38:1,9 37:11 43:24 35:7,17,18 36:4
50:11 Franklin 40:11 39:16,19 40:18 50:3 50:18
G 3:1 government 44:23 13:8 15:5 18:14
29:23 generally 15:16 granted 40:4 51:13 imprison 3:16
43:3 16:12 19:25 grateful 51:17 Honor 4:10 27:11
41:16 47:2 great 47:21 12:25 19:4 28:7 imprisonment
21:15,18 5:11 12:17 26:9 27:18 40:4 41:19,22 43:3,6 justification
22:4,7,25 induce 14:23 issues 10:21 29:2 45:17,18 46:20 40:20
induced 5:8 37:13 46:13 47:16 48:14 justified 17:18
31:10 12:15 i.e 9:3 51:8 20:3 37:17
infer 50:24 judge's 9:19 justify 9:11
34:13 influence 50:11 J 36:14,18 44:3,4
35:10,11 influenced 51:1 jail 7:22 29:15 44:11 K
infrequently 32:20 34:24,25 judging 50:9 KAGAN 13:12
36:4 49:19 Joint 8:7 11:1 judgment 6:20 18:17 30:22
49:2 initial 36:8 judge 4:5,13,13 48:15 31:11,14 37:20
inmates 40:3 8:17 9:3,7,10 3:9 4:4,19 5:13 keeping 14:25
inquire 20:24 10:5,18,25 7:15,20 8:4,21 16:16,24 17:3,9
39:15 29:16 19:1,1,2,3,12 12:1 13:1,5,12 22:14,18,21,24
15:21 instances 17:21 21:17,25 23:21 16:16,24 17:3,9 43:24 44:10
35:4,7 24:1,4,5,6,13 17:13,20,24 Kennedy's 13:13
instructs 37:23 25:23 26:15 20:8,13,23 21:7 36:25 40:8
5:24 12:10,23 28:4 29:17 30:1 22:18,21,24 50:7
interpretation 39:13,16,22 27:3,7,22 28:22 26:8 29:10
44:6 41:8 42:3,5,7 30:22 31:11,14 46:22 47:23
introduces 35:5 44:19,22 45:2,7 34:11,19 35:2,8 knowledge 11:10
39:20 47:15 48:3 36:21 37:9,20 known 35:14,15
6:7 7:8 30:18,18 43:24 44:10
27:9 28:16 lacked 15:18
in-prison 48:9 45:4,18,20 46:1
29:24 language 34:10
31:8,9 48:23
isolation 38:18 48:1,17 49:13
36:1,3 large 28:8
40:6,18 Laughter 35:1
47:15 longer 4:2 28:3 mental 44:15 nearly 39:14 38:14 39:7
32:8 mentioned 12:11 necessary 38:21 40:12
37:7 42:25 mind 12:9,10 needed 11:2,3,8 option 16:3 39:14
24:21 lower 4:15 15:9 minutes 48:18 32:5 42:15 order 7:16 34:25
34:13 39:25 mitigating 15:24 48:14 43:15 44:7
41:22 needs 7:22 18:24 ordinarily 24:16
32:13
21:20 main 33:25 43:21 48:4 ordinary 36:23
50:18 making 27:24 model 13:22,23 42:16
44:20
18:16 man 6:14 18:24 model's 27:12 ought 42:19 48:3
23:4 34:9 mandate 51:9 modify 38:22 outside 5:1,6
mandatory 15:13 Monday 1:9 9:16 15:10,14
41:15
16:18 17:21 50:6,7 O 2:1 3:1 12:16
meaning 3:18 moving 4:14 okay 26:6 29:12 part 32:23
31:10 33:15 muse 40:19 ones 44:13 participation
25:2
12:9 15:7 Philadelphia preclude 18:14 43:4 45:15 18:13,15,19
23:25 1:20 precludes 23:2,2 46:14,25 47:1 19:7,8 24:18
25:1,3 phrased 31:8 23:4 47:20,20 48:15 27:17 29:7 31:1
29:3 34:6 pick 19:20 predict 30:1 48:24 49:21 31:1,2,17,19
51:3 picked 26:23 predictability 50:25 51:4,12 31:20 32:21
48:8 24:10 41:6 predictable 4:25 16:20,22 17:1,4 44:11,14 48:15
placing 28:24 predictions prisons 18:18 prohibition 26:17
10:22 26:25 premise 30:23 35:21 36:18 prohibits 13:7
please 3:10 13:6 24:24 35:20 15:5 16:3 23:17 promoting 3:12
plus 8:12 prescribed 50:14 33:6 44:23 21:19 27:19
21:3 8:6 16:20 28:13 19:14 19:15,23 44:2 35:12
38:4 39:15 30:7,8 31:8 presumably 42:5 50:23 proper 42:23
51:10,12 32:18 35:8,9 presume 21:12 problems 15:21 properly 4:17
44:18 47:19 pretty 47:6 39:2 proscription
44:1,3,9 48:9 49:5 prevailing 13:22 procedures 12:23
pointed 37:9 prevent 16:2 27:13 protect 25:21
population 39:23 principal 36:10 11:12 13:11 provable 40:2
23:14 position 44:1,8 3:21,21 4:2,7 21:16 22:3 provided 15:5
28:2,4 possibility 5:5 5:2,2,6,8,19,25 24:16 25:3,11 36:12 49:9
39:16 15:2 30:5 6:9 7:9 9:16 25:16 27:24 providing 18:15
47:19 possible 29:4 11:11 12:15,17 28:9 29:14 24:16
3:8 19:8 power 3:20,22,25 15:10 16:13 44:17 45:7 46:3 41:25 46:22
28:11,14 28:16 35:17 17:7,8 18:13,25 47:1 48:4,7 provisions 46:24
35:6 39:1 46:10 19:6,10,16 50:7 51:3 public 16:11
practically 37:20 23:16,24 25:20 programs 3:22 17:18 25:9,12
10:4 50:10 35:11 42:13 5:23 6:12,17 reliability 36:22
rarely 43:2 recommend 28:1 9:5,18 10:8 reliably 5:8
43:22 ratchet 4:5,9 recommendation 11:21 12:2,14 12:14 14:4,23
14:18 rationale 35:6 44:8,12 13:18,22 14:3,6 relying 18:22
15:1,15 RDAP 28:9 40:1 recommendati... 14:8,11,13,14 remained 15:2
18:15,16 reached 40:17 28:21 44:4 14:17,19 15:1,4 remaining 48:18
29:19 read 6:13 8:2 recommended 15:10,15 16:5 remand 27:2
26:10 32:25 44:14 16:15,18,21 reply 28:15
8:10 10:7 reading 10:5 8:19,19 16:25 18:4,8,24 19:19 19:15 28:16
16:10 20:1 37:14 reconcile 33:16 20:17,19 21:19 32:14 38:13
32:1 34:4reads 34:7 46:8 33:17 22:5,10,17,25 39:4 42:21
49:18 really 4:5 6:25 reduce 48:10 23:3,7,14,19 44:24 45:13,15
51:10 8:7,10,22 10:3 reduces 4:7 25:16 27:12,19 46:23
47:21 reason 12:20 references 38:13 31:15,16,19 15:6 19:7 23:12
37:5 43:4 28:10 29:8 30:9 reform 3:24 4:22 34:21 35:13 required 5:22
30:20 27:11 38:1 39:8 36:3 38:5 39:1 18:2 21:11
18:6 reasoned 40:20 refused 28:12 50:23,25 51:3,5 requiring 6:7
26:12 43:14 29:9,12 30:11 rehabilitative 6:1 37:18
36:13 reasons 20:3 30:12 9:13 17:7 18:13 resentencing
21:12,13 28:8 regard 5:20 6:2 22:13 30:10,14 36:5 47:25
REBUTTAL regular 5:11 51:11 reside 24:9
48:5 17:25 rehabilitate 5:10 27:19 residing 25:3
37:9,11 18:2 19:18 38:25 30:15 33:6,10 responding 30:7
40:15 34:21 35:3 rehabilitation 35:24 36:2 39:5 responses 38:11
recognizing 9:7 3:13,18,24 4:3 41:1 responsibility
47:14
51:14 selecting 16:2 37:15 39:8 28:17
43:17 rules 44:3 46:23 14:18,20 15:2 49:12
3:7 S 47:24 19:9 20:4 21:21 41:18
S 2:1 3:1 sending 3:14 27:9,11,13,20 single 34:17
San 1:15 35:19,24 45:9 34:3 36:8 37:19 situations 50:13
36:24 37:7 9:10 15:9 23:6 sent 4:2 7:9 40:5,23 41:8,14 skepticism 14:11
42:1,17 30:8,24 31:14 12:17 46:25 44:19 46:14 30:2,20
44:25 31:18 35:19 47:20 48:24 47:14,18 48:15 skills 15:19
23:8 11:15 18:6 9:21,21 10:1,3 serious 6:16 7:23 smuggling 8:24
39:12 19:15,18,24 10:7 11:2,6,18 8:25 9:4 10:1 social 32:12
45:21 30:13 33:3,7 12:21 13:16,17 seriously 28:20 socioeconomic
11:13 12:1 10:25 19:1 20:5 23:8,19,20 set 4:12 22:9 somebody 4:25
20:8 23:5,10,13 24:21 25:13,25 33:12 34:1 49:7 12:22 51:2
14:15 24:20 29:10,22 26:2,5,13,14 setting 5:8,18,21 sorry 6:14 8:18
16:22 30:6 32:25 26:16,17,23 12:15 14:4 10:22
33:23 34:11,19 28:5 31:15,16 18:25 19:10 Sotomayor 6:11
18:1,12 35:2,16 36:11 31:18 33:2,4,5 sex 41:10 43:16 7:11,20 8:21
19:4,11 45:4,18,20 46:1 33:19 34:9,23 44:15 9:17,24 21:23
46:5,7 37:8,11 40:10 shorten 13:19 25:8,15,22 26:8
scopes 49:20 40:14,15,17 16:5 26:12,19,22
21:4,7,10 se 40:21 41:1 42:8 43:7 show 26:25 27:1 37:9 41:24
22:11,16 second 28:13 48:12 49:2,15 38:12 42:12 49:13
23:1,9 38:17 44:18 49:16 50:22 showed 19:2 Sotomayor's
24:2,9 section 13:7 51:1,2 side 10:3 30:13 48:2
25:14 14:20 33:2 34:3 sentenced 14:8 sides 6:12 speaking 37:21
26:7,11 40:25 41:14 49:21,22 simple 28:17 49:3
sections 33:16 sentences 3:17 32:1 42:7 specialized 24:17
48:17 see 9:2 38:15 12:18 19:12,17 simplification 27:24
50:2
subordinate 46:9 47:11 51:3 thing 47:25 training 23:23
12:21 subset 32:4 41:21 28:19 31:4,6 transcript 8:3
48:7 substantial 27:2 talismanic 9:25 40:19 43:18 26:10 40:15
30:2 35:5 18:23 24:4 25:3 18:5 24:21 38:5 20:5 21:2,4,7 22:2 25:11
25:4 29:14 38:6,7,7 40:14 21:10 22:11 27:16,18 28:3,5
40:5 35:23 36:1 41:1 49:14 26:21,24 31:3,3 32:13,15,22
34:16 support 1:19 2:7 Tapia 1:3 3:4 38:12 39:14,25 38:15 42:16
suppose 16:16 targeted 48:7 thinking 4:22,23 treatments 27:10
12:9,11 44:8 tell 34:19 37:11 thinks 4:5 23:21 true 5:25
20:21 23:2 supposed 16:13 40:18 24:4,5 25:5,10 truthfully 51:13
29:24 33:1 28:20 tendencies 38:23 42:19 trying 16:1 18:14
36:19 supposedly term 4:8 5:18,21 third 32:18 38:24 39:21
44:6 46:8 29:19 6:6,8 13:8 thought 4:20 5:5 turned 7:17
Supreme 1:1,12 16:21,23,24 38:3 two 10:19 17:10
2:10 27:5 suspicious 42:24 23:15 26:15 tied 12:18 32:20 typically 19:13
43:14 take 5:14,17,22 51:14 36:14,16,17 understand 7:5
7:4 13:12 14:12 theory 13:15 38:22 44:3,9 8:23 23:5 30:23
30:15 46:1
30:11 46:11 write 43:25 2011 1:9 51-month 8:11
Washington 1:8 20:6,9,13,13 25 8:7 55 7:3 50:6,7
34:16 wasn't 14:2,24 27 2:11 8:8 11:1 6
29:9 50:17 x 1:2,7 9:12 10:1 29 8:8 63 10:13,15
39:7 28:2 33:17,23
49:22,24 48:18 93 28:10 36:25
40:24 43:16,17
30 40:3 991(b)(1)(B)
ways 15:3 37:17
16:17 3553(a) 33:13 994 41:14 43:16
40:9 34:2 994(d) 41:7
42:4,5 3553(a)(1) 41:2
34:13 weight 37:2,3,5
3553(a)(2)(C)
we're 18:5,5
19:13,13,14 3553(a)(3)(D)
10 21:2 36:16,17
3582 3:15 4:12
widely 38:19 100 44:12 3582's 42:13
49:15 47:18 12-month 48:12 3583(c) 40:25
18:24 141 45:15 36 10:16
23:23 work 5:2
32:6 51:6 workers 32:12 2 5
26:22
