IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
LAWRENCE GOLAN, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 10-545
ERIC H. HOLDER, JR., ATTORNEY :
GENERAL, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, October 5, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ANTHONY T. FALZONE, ESQ., Stanford, California; on
behalf of Petitioners.
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ANTHONY T. FALZONE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DONALD B. VERRILLI, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ANTHONY T. FALZONE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 10-545, Golan v. Holder.
Mr. Falzone.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY T. FALZONE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. FALZONE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Section 514 did something unprecedented in
American copyright law. It took millions of works out
of the public domain, where they had remained for
decades as the common property of all Americans. That
violated the Copyright Clause and the First Amendment.
Let me turn first to the Copyright Clause.
In Eldred, this Court held Congress gets to pick the
date on which a copyright expires, and it can extend
that date before we reach that date.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said that Congress
can set a time limit. In this case, we're dealing with,
let's say, Aaron Copeland, who gets the benefit of
copyright, and Congress says: No, we think Shostakovich
should be treated just like Copeland. Yes, we took care
of our own when we weren't part of the world community,
but now we are.
And so, all that Congress is doing is giving
Shostakovich works the same limited time as Aaron
Copeland. And why does that violate the limited-time
prescription?
MR. FALZONE: The problem is Congress is now
setting a second limit long after the first one has come
and gone.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the person -- the
person we're talking about, the work we're talking
about, never got the first limit. There was no -- there
was no time, there was no time when that work could have
been protected. So, why isn't it consistent with the
Copyright Clause to say, you are entitled to limited
time protection? We're not talking about a case where
you've had the protection, enjoyed it, and then it
expired, and then Congress says we'd like -- we like
your work so much we're going to give you another term.
What's affected here are people who were
unprotected. And Congress says we think that they
should have a limited time.
MR. FALZONE: So, let me just clarify one
thing. Many of the works that were restored here did
get some time, 28 years, and were not renewed.
But to get back to your question about the
works that got none --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They didn't get the
equivalent of what a U.S. author -- but let's take the
large category, because it's the ones that you feature.
You're talking about Shostakovich, Stravinski, and I
say, well, what's wrong with giving them the same time
that Aaron Copeland got?
MR. FALZONE: Congress has been setting the
limited time at zero since 1790. In the 1790 Act,
Congress set the limit at zero for a wide array of
works, those that did not comply with formalities, those
that were written by foreign authors --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not a limited
time. That's saying you have no time.
MR. FALZONE: Well, but saying you have no
time is itself picking the limit because the language of
the Copyright Clause forces Congress to pick a limit
that constrains copyright by marking its end. And when
-- if a limit does not mark the end once reached, then
there is no limit; there is no end.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it has to have a
beginning, too. And that's -- for these people who were
unprotected, because we didn't recognize their
copyright, there's no beginning.
MR. FALZONE: No, there does not need to be
a beginning. It is within Congress's discretion.
Remember, this is permissive. Congress may grant
exclusive rights, but it can also say your limit is
going to be zero; we decide that you're not going to get
any exclusive rights.
And every Congress since 1790, every time it
went to add subject matter, every time it went to extend
the duration of copyright, respected that choice to give
no time. And, in fact, the time -- the decision to make
foreign authors ineligible is a decision that Congress
has never gone back on. None of the exceptions the
Government points to remove anything from the public
domain that was placed there based upon a lack of
national eligibility. Two hundred years of history is
crystal clear about --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I can understand your
argument that the public domain is untouchable. I'm not
sure I get that from the Constitution. That says to
secure to authors for a limited time the exclusive
right. That -- that's talking about what you can secure
to authors. So, I don't see why using the words of the
Constitution, to secure to authors for a limited time,
Congress can't say: We want every author to have a
limited time.
MR. FALZONE: Well --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The foreign works that we
didn't give -- we're not treating them any better. They
don't get a different startup date, but they get the
same end date as our own authors.
MR. FALZONE: Right. The -- the operative
language is the limited times restriction, and the limit
it requires Congress to pick is the date at which all
protection ends for good. And Congress has picked zero
since 1790 and respected that decision, and that is no
accident.
Because the -- the -- if you want to know
what "limited times" means, if it means anything, it
means if -- for instance, if Congress is not required to
respect an expiration date long after it's passed or its
decision to deny a work any protection in the first
place --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: We're not talking about
expiration dates. So, I'd like you to concentrate --
MR. FALZONE: Sure.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not -- that's not
-- none of these -- none of these copyrights have been
extended beyond their expiration date. They just
weren't protected.
MR. FALZONE: Well, taking works that got no
protection, if Congress is not required to respect its
decision to deny a work any protection in the first
place, we can never know whether we've reached the end
or not. And, in fact, that's the problem with the
Government's theory. Its theory says all Congress has
to do is attach a nominal expiration date to any given
copyright. Well, if that's true, there is -- if that's
all you need, there's nothing stopping us --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But is it -- that is --
that is not --
MR. FALZONE: -- from reaching back and
giving De Tocqueville a hundred years.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That is most distinctly
not before this case. So, please let's not talk about a
copyright that has been protected, has expired, and
Congress wants to revive it.
We are concentrating on what Congress did to
bring us into compliance with the worldwide system, and
it's saying: We're giving a limited time to these
authors.
MR. FALZONE: Well --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They never had a limited
time before.
MR. FALZONE: Well, I -- I was talking -- De
Tocqueville never got any time, because he was a foreign
author. Ben Johnson never got any time, but on the
Government's theory, we could give him a hundred years
right now.
This statute did work differently. It
certainly restored copyrights into the existing period.
That's correct. That is an accurate description of this
statute. But that is not a limit that's contained
anywhere in the Government's interpretation of limited
times.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did anyone in the same --
the same -- published the same year as De Tocqueville, a
U.S. author, that would have a copyright protection
today?
MR. FALZONE: I'm sorry. I didn't hear you.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I gave the example of
Aaron Copeland versus Shostakovich. Let's go back to De
Tocqueville. Who has a copyright who published in,
what, 18 -- what was it?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Forties.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. FALZONE: The answer is nobody. But
here is the problem. If Congress wanted to reach that
work, here's all it has to do on the Government's theory
and even under the mechanism of section 514: All it
needs to do today is extend existing terms a hundred
years, and then reach back and restore into that
existing term. So, on the Government's theory and even
by the mechanism on which this statute operates, the
government could reach back and protect De Tocqueville.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under your -- under
your theory, let's say you have a copyright that expires
on October 5th, okay? On October 4th, Congress could
extend that for 25 years.
MR. FALZONE: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right? But on
October 6th, they couldn't go back and extend it 1 day.
MR. FALZONE: That's exactly right because
the limit the Copyright Clause requires us to pick is an
end date with permanent consequence. End dates are
about finality. If that end date doesn't have permanent
consequence, if it doesn't have finality, we can never
know if we've reached the end or not. The limit the
Framers knew was the limit of the Statute of Anne.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it seems -- but it
seems to me that that was rejected in our most recent --
an earlier case on copyright.
MR. FALZONE: In Eldred?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
MR. FALZONE: No, no. Eldred said Congress
can move the limit back before we reach it. But Eldred
most certainly did not say that Congress is free to
ignore the limit once we hit it, because if you can do
that, then you never know if you've reached the limit or
not. The limit the Framers knew was the one in the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counselor, there was no
limit here, meaning these foreign works were never given
the opportunity to be copyrighted. Isn't that a
substantial difference from the hypothetical that you're
trying to proffer? You're -- the hypothetical -- and I
think that's what Justice Ginsburg was responding to --
is you had a copyright, it expired, and now Congress
wants to revive it. Isn't that different from not
having had the opportunity at all and being given a term
to exploit your work and protect it?
MR. FALZONE: The answer is no, it's not
different; and Congress treated those situations exactly
the same in all 19 amendments over the span of 200
years.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The problem --
MR. FALZONE: It gave equal respect.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I know, but it
didn't do it when it set up the copyright system.
MR. FALZONE: Oh, it did.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In 1790, counsel, there
were three States that didn't give copyrights. There
were other States, and you make a big deal in your brief
about common law protection, but common law protection,
particularly in New York, which you relied on, only
extended to unpublished works. Once a work was
published, it was no longer protected under the common
law. That was true of most States. And some States
gave copyright protection to residents of their own
State but not to residents from other States.
So, it took a whole body of public works and
gave them copyright protection the day they decided to
pass the copyright law. So, what are you doing telling
us that there has never been a historical experience
with Congress taking public works out of the public
domain?
MR. FALZONE: Well, let me be clear about
what happened in 1790. The 1790 Act did not remove
anything from the public domain. The text is clear,
because insofar as it applied to works already printed,
it presupposes existing copyrights explicitly in the
text of the Act.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Read those words to me.
MR. FALZONE: So, I'm looking at section 1
of the 1790 Act, and at the beginning it talks about
"after the passing of this act, the author and authors
of any map, chart, book or books already printed within
these United States, being a citizen ... thereof, or
resident within ... or his or hers executors,
administrators or assigns, who hath or have not
transferred to any other person the copyright of such
map, chart, book or books" --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait a minute. Who have or
have not transferred to any other person. So, you don't
have to have a copyright.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You just --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- well, you have to
have a --
MR. FALZONE: You do have to have a
copyright. So, it says "author or authors" and "hath"
is the singular, and "have" -- "have not" is the plural
for that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Read it again. Who have --
MR. FALZONE: Sure.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- or have not transferred
to any other person.
MR. FALZONE: Right. The copyright of such
map. It presupposes the existence of a copyright.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh. Oh, the copyright. I
got you.
MR. FALZONE: Yes. "The copyright" is the
key language. So, the text makes it clear they
presupposed existing copyrights.
And let me speak to --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- your reading of
that passage is different than mine. I think it's a --
it's saying if -- whether you have or you haven't.
MR. FALZONE: But let me speak to the point
you raised about common law protection for published
works. You said New York provided no common law
protection for published works. With respect, that's
not correct. The Naxos v. Capitol Records case, highest
court of New York, says New York common law provided
protection for published works right up to the point
where the Federal Act cut it off.
And if you look -- and if -- if the question
is whether the first Congress intended to take anything
out of the public domain in 1790, the answer is you
simply cannot reach that conclusion, because everything
contemporaneous with the first Congress, the history of
the common law in Britain, decided by Millar v. Taylor
and Donaldson v. Beckett, recognized common law rights
in published works. The Federalist Papers spoke about
Millar, and everything contemporaneous --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If we disagree with your
proposition, does your argument fail? If the historical
work does not point to what you claim?
MR. FALZONE: You mean the 1790 Act or the
19 after it?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In 1790. If Congress
did what I believe it did --
MR. FALZONE: No, I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- would your argument
fail.
MR. FALZONE: No, not necessarily, because,
of course, that was the first Copyright Act, and
Congress established a baseline. It had to start
somewhere. What we see 19 --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It could have started in
the place you want Congress to have started now?
MR. FALZONE: Well, no, but then --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It said, moving forward,
there's a Federal copyright. It didn't have to take
things out of the public domain. We're arguing about
whether they did or didn't. But assuming they did.
MR. FALZONE: Oh, I will assume they did.
They had to start somewhere. They wanted uniformity.
They created a statute that provided it.
When you look at every amendment, 19 times
in 200 years after that, Congress respected the
permanent consequence of the limits it chose, even when
those limits were a work gets no time whatsoever, based
on formality and noncompliance, based upon national
eligibility, based upon expiration of 28 years. It was
consistent each time it added subject matter or extended
terms.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me a little
bit about the phrase and the argument about the public
domain? Is, in your view, that just a synonym for when
the time has ended? Or is there something more
substantive to it that -- is it your position that the
public somehow owns what's in the public domain? I'm --
MR. FALZONE: Well -- so, to be precise, our
position is once Congress calls the limit, that is, once
it says this work is unprotected, whether it's the
expiration of 28 years or a decision to give it no
protection, it's creating affirmative rights in every
member of the public. Yes, they own it. And this Court
has recognized --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but how does the
phrase -- so, the public domain is simply a conclusion
to express that, the operation of that principle? The
public domain doesn't have any more substantive meaning
other than to just express the conclusion that there's a
limited time?
MR. FALZONE: Well, it -- in this case, when
I refer to the public domain, it's the collection of
things for which Congress had said protection is done,
it's over, we've hit the limit, it's done. So things
that went --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Once again, it's just a
conclusion for the argument.
MR. FALZONE: I think that's the operative
concept here. That's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think you gave an
analogy to the statute of limitations, and I thought you
were quite right about that. You can extend the statute
of limitations before it's expired, but once it's
expired, it's over.
The problem with you using that as an
analogy is that there was a beginning. Time ran out,
and you're trying to deal with a situation here where
you say, you know, the time was limited for the U.S.
work, but it's unlimited, that you -- you cannot treat
the foreign work -- you cannot give it a limited time,
the same limited time that you would give a U.S. work.
You're saying these people had no time, and they may
never get time.
MR. FALZONE: They had no time because
Congress decided that their works were going to be
ineligible, and a limit of zero is one Congress has been
setting since 1790 and respected consistently.
If the Chief Justice gives me a limited time
for oral argument, I might say no, thanks, I have
nothing to say.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it isn't -- it isn't
quite --
MR. FALZONE: And we all know I can't come
back tomorrow.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- quite so because there
are these examples of the people who couldn't get
copyright because of wartime both after -- after both
World War I and World War II, and -- so, those people
were allowed to get the protection that they couldn't
get because of the war.
MR. FALZONE: That's correct. That's what
those statutes did. They were never challenged. And
make no mistake, our position is, insofar as they
removed anything from the public domain, they are
unconstitutional.
But even if the Court doesn't want to go
that far, I think the wartime statutes and the other
small handful of exceptions the Government points to fit
quite well into a very limited exception for eligible
authors who show nothing more than the familiar concept
of excusable neglect, which has operated -- and, again,
in very narrow situations -- to relieve people of the
consequences of deadlines.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about new
categories? You know, architecture. Congress decides
we're going to extend copyright protection to
architectural design, and they say: And we're going to
go back 5 years. So, any new architectural design
conceived or constructed, whatever, within the last 5
years gets protection, and it goes on for another 15.
MR. FALZONE: Right. So -- so -- of course,
to be clear, that's not what Congress actually did when
it protected architectural works.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, I know.
MR. FALZONE: It looked forward. Right.
But that -- so, in that case, the -- the
Federal scheme, if it had not previously regulated
architectural works, it had not -- there had been no
decision as to what the limit was going to be. And so,
you may pose a different question.
Here, we're talking about works that were
affirmatively within the Federal scheme --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, I'm just
trying to -- I'm trying to test the limit of your public
domain --
MR. FALZONE: Sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- argument. Does
it extend to new categories of copyrightable works?
MR. FALZONE: I think the answer is the
retrospective portion of that statute flunks progress of
science but -- but passes limited times.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would you -- would you
spend a little bit of time on your other argument? I
take it to be a separate argument apart from the, you
know, time limit argument, the argument that the problem
here is that this law does not promote the progress of
science and useful arts and, therefore, does not comply
with the Copyright Clause. Why doesn't it --
MR. FALZONE: That's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why doesn't it promote the
progress of science and the useful arts?
MR. FALZONE: So, the -- the progress of
science corresponds roughly to the creation and spread
of knowledge and learning. A statute that does nothing,
like this one, does nothing but take old works out of
the public domain without any impact on prospective
incentives, cannot stimulate the creation of anything.
And as for things that already exist, it cannot
stimulate the spread of them. All it can do is restrict
the spread of things that could once circulate freely.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You don't think that
there are some foreign authors who didn't or wouldn't
come into the U.S. market because they couldn't protect
their works here and kept their works in other markets
that -- in which it was protected?
MR. FALZONE: Well, I don't -- I don't --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And it doesn't encourage
them to sort of make investments?
MR. FALZONE: No. Not -- this statute does
not and cannot do that, because it --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why not?
MR. FALZONE: Because it --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Foreign authors who
decided not to exploit their works here wouldn't be
induced to think about coming into this market because
now they can protect their works?
MR. FALZONE: Well, whether they came into
this market or not has no effect on whether they can
protect their works or not. They were unprotected
whether they came into this market or not. They would
be protected --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're not answering my
question. You don't think that this law induces those
foreign authors to come here and promote their work?
MR. FALZONE: I -- I don't see how it could.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, one way it
could, I suppose, is that it shows that Congress is
interested in making sure that American authors overseas
have reciprocal protection, an issue that could come out
in a variety of contexts. And if I'm sitting there
writing a great novel, I will have the confidence that
my government will ensure that I get protection when it
becomes a bestseller in China.
MR. FALZONE: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right? Well, that's
-- that's an incentive.
MR. FALZONE: Yes. And you were assured of
that incentive in 1988, when we joined the Berne
Convention without removing anything from the public
domain, because when you sit down to write that book
today, that work will absolutely be protected in all of
the Berne and WTO countries. So, the incentive effect
was achieved and achieved in full in 1988.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I'm talking
about -- but the same issue can come up again, you know,
whether it's in the area of formalities or whatever.
There may be another problem where there's a dispute
between other countries and our country. And I will
know that, in the past, the United States has taken
action looking out for -- for the interests of American
authors.
MR. FALZONE: That's -- that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's an incentive.
Now, it may be, as I think it was described in a court
of appeals decision, a "meager" incentive. You may be
more interested in other protection. But it's -- we
haven't really required much more than that.
MR. FALZONE: Perhaps. I mean, there's
nothing in -- in the record before Congress here to
reflect the fact they made any such conclusion.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let me put it -- I think
it's the same point -- another way. Let's assume I'm a
multibillionaire, and I receive an award as a great
patron of the arts because I have furthered the arts by
giving several million dollars to someone who has
already composed an opera or who has already written a
book. Wouldn't -- wouldn't I be furthering, be viewed
as furthering, the arts?
MR. FALZONE: Potentially, but the problem
here, if I can move a little bit to the First Amendment,
is the mechanism Congress chose to use here. They chose
to create that reward by taking away core public speech
rights from the American public and transforming them
into somebody's private property.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's what the
copyright law permits, the -- excluding things from the
public domain so long as, in the process of doing it,
you're furthering the arts.
MR. FALZONE: Well -- but let me focus on
the First Amendment problem. An ordinary copyright
statute does not revoke the public's Federal right to
copy and use works in the public domain. That is
exactly the thing Congress refused to do 19 times over
200 years. And that's the huge departure from
traditional contours of copyright protection that
triggers First Amendment scrutiny here. And when you go
to ask the First Amendment question, you can't ignore
the mechanism Congress chose to use here, which is to
take away public speech rights and turn them into
somebody else's private property.
That was the explicit motivation of the
people who came before Congress and asked them to pass
this statute. That is the justification the
Government --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But now you're saying that
there is a substantive component to this public domain
argument, that the public does own something. And
that's different from what I thought you answered
earlier when you said it's just conclusory for a limited
time.
MR. FALZONE: In that case, I misspoke. The
public -- the public domain is owned collectively by the
public. And, in fact, decisions of this Court going
back to the 19th century refer to it as public property.
And I think that --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm curious to go back a
second. I thought Justice Sotomayor's question was:
Imagine Smith in Germany. He has written a book. It's
there, already exists, but it has no copyright
protection in the United States. So, after this, would
he be more willing to send it to the United States? And
I take it your answer is no. The reason is because I
can go and buy a copy and sell it in the United States
even without this law. Is that right or wrong?
MR. FALZONE: I think -- I think that it
could possibly incentivize him to bring a work to the
United States, depending on how the statute worked --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, see, that's what --
-- isn't that the question? The question is, now that
Smith has the same protection in the United States that
Germany gave him, doesn't that give him an incentive to
send his book to the U.S.? I'm thinking about that one.
I thought: Not much, because I can go buy it today
without this law and bring it to the United States and
sell as many as I want. But nonetheless --
MR. FALZONE: I think that's right.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is -- that's not
right?
MR. FALZONE: No, I think -- I think you're
correct. I think you're correct. I think that's --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, don't just jump on my
answer as being correct if it's not.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Then the
answer --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It might be his
incentive to buy it or not, but the question is the
author's incentive to sell it here. Those are two
different incentives. Whether -- you know, he could go
anywhere and buy a cheaper book if he chose to take the
trip or get on the Internet and find it. He could do
that now. Copyrighted materials here go at a different
price than they do elsewhere. That's not the issue.
The issue is the author's incentive.
MR. FALZONE: The -- the problem here is
these authors are long gone. You can't incentivize
them. These works are so old they're long gone. You
can't incentivize anything that's -- that's happened so
long ago. So -- and if you could --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, if you can't
incentivize them, they're not going to claim their
rights.
MR. FALZONE: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They're not going to
come and claim their rights. Part of this law is that
they have to declare that they're interested in
protecting their copyright here.
MR. FALZONE: No. Actually, that's
optional. It's optional for them to file a notice of
intent to enforce. It's optional for them to declare.
But the real problem is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Optional for them, but
once they do, that's when they can sue a prior user.
MR. FALZONE: That's right. If -- well, it
depends who they want to sue, but yes. That -- they
certainly have broader rights once they file the notice
of intent to enforce. But the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, the assumption
of this -- of this line of questioning, I suppose, is
that the mere marketing in the United States of stuff
that has already been created promotes the progress of
the useful arts. I'm not sure it promotes the progress
of the useful arts. It makes more money for the guy who
wrote it, but it doesn't incentivize anybody --
MR. FALZONE: That's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- to create art.
MR. FALZONE: It's not going to incentivize
anybody to create anything, and it only restricts the
circulation of things that once circulated freely.
If I can reserve my time for rebuttal, I'd
like to do that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. FALZONE: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General Verrilli.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
I'd like to begin by picking up on a point
that my friend made in response to Justice Ginsburg
suggesting that with respect to foreign works what
Congress has done is set the copyright term at zero. I
don't really think that's a fair description of the
situation, and it obscures what Section 514 actually
does and what Congress is all about here.
Since 1891, Congress has concluded as a
matter of copyright law that foreign works are entitled
to the same protection as domestic works. The problem
with respect to the authors that section 514 covers is
not that Congress set the copyright limit at zero; is
that as a matter of foreign relations, we did not have
treaties with these individual countries. And what 514
does is remedy that problem. What 514 says is, with
respect to a defined set of foreign authors, they get
the remainder of the copyright term that they would
otherwise have gotten, and nothing more, had they lived
in countries where we had -- with which we had copyright
relations at the time they published, or had they
complied with the formalities that we used to enforce
but no longer do to perfect and renew copyrights.
That's what it does.
It doesn't grant anybody a perpetual term.
It does not renew a copyright term that has run its full
course and create a new one. It rectifies that problem
which doesn't -- doesn't reflect anything about a
congressional judgment setting the copyright term at
zero for foreign works.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could Congress grant
copyright protection to works that had lost that
protection due to the expiration of the period that was
provided for under then -- under previous law?
GENERAL VERRILLI: We think that the --
there isn't an ironclad limit that can be derived from
the text of the Copyright Clause or from history that
would say that Congress is forbidden in any circumstance
from doing that. We do think that there are significant
limits in the text of the Copyright Clause that would
restrict any ability Congress might have to do that.
But one thing I think is important here is that section
514 is not a statute in which Congress did that, and
we'd respectfully suggest that any assessment by this
Court of whether Congress had that power should await a
concrete context in which Congress exercises it, if it
ever does.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What is it that you're
-- that you're referring to?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Excuse me, Justice
Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You said there are
limits.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, one limit I think
is a quite important one is that the Copyright Clause
says that you can only grant copyright in authors, to
authors. And as a work gets older and older when you're
talking about Shakespeare and Ben Johnson, there really
at that point isn't an author in which you could vest
the copyright. And creating any copyright for a
long-expired work like that would really, I think, raise
the problem that the Framers were addressing by
restricting copyright to authors, which -- which was to
avoid the creation of patronage monopolies in which
publishers who weren't the authors could claim the
exclusive rights of copyright.
JUSTICE ALITO: But doesn't this -- doesn't
section 514 provide copyright protection for works that
were created by people who are long since dead?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, it does.
JUSTICE ALITO: So, I don't understand the
limit that you were just suggesting.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, because they --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do they have to be dead for
some period of time before --
GENERAL VERRILLI: No, but --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- Congress is unable to
give them back their copyright?
GENERAL VERRILLI: What 514 does, Justice
Alito, is provide copyright protection to works of
foreign authors whose works still have copyright
protection in their own country, whether they're dead or
alive. So long as the work has protection in the
country, then 514 provides copyright protection.
And the reason it does so is to ensure our
compliance with the Berne Convention. And so, the why
here is very important and, I think, provides the answer
to Justice Scalia's question about how 514 contributes
to the progress of arts and sciences. What 514 does --
514 is, in essence, the price of admission to the
international system. We decided, the policymaking
branches of our government, the executive and the
Congress, decided that we needed to be -- and it was in
the national interest -- to be part of the international
copyright system and to join the Berne Convention to
accomplish that. The reason we did so was because our
intellectual property is subject to very serious levels
of piracy in many foreign countries because of
under-enforcement.
By joining Berne, what we did was commit
ourselves to the international standards. And by
enacting Section 514 to implement the Uruguay Round
Agreements in 1994, what we did was say to the world
that we are going to ensure compliance in this country.
JUSTICE SCALIA: General Verrilli, I do not
find that an appealing argument. It seems to me
Congress either had the power to do this under the
Copyright Clause or it didn't. I don't think that
powers that Congress does not have under the
Constitution can be acquired by simply obtaining the
agreement of the Senate, the President, and Zimbabwe.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I do not think a treaty can
expand the powers of the Federal Government. I mean,
this is either okay under the copyright clause or it
isn't. Now --
GENERAL VERRILLI: We completely --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- it would be nice to know
the reason for it, but you would still have to establish
that it's within the power of the Federal Government --
GENERAL VERRILLI: We completely agreement
with that, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
GENERAL VERRILLI: There's no textual limit
in the Copyright Clause that would preclude Congress
from enacting this statute.
The Petitioners have also raised the First
Amendment argument. We don't think First Amendment
scrutiny applies here. To the extent it did, the why
would matter there, and there's definitely a substantial
interest on the part of Congress in -- in ensuring
compliance with Berne and getting protection for our
works in Berne.
Now, in Eldred, the Court did say, I think
quite clearly, that there is no requirement under the
Copyright Clause that a new financial benefit granted to
an existing -- that a new financial benefit cannot be
granted to an existing work --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but it was -- in Eldred
the main difference is that in Eldred, there was a law
that might, at least in principle, have elicited a new
book. And in this case, by definition, there is no
benefit given to anything at all that is not already
created.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I disagree.
JUSTICE BREYER: By -- how? How does it
give any benefit to anything that isn't already created?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Because it creates
additional incentives for authors today and going
forward, because they know that there's a much greater
likelihood that whatever intellectual property they
create will be better protected in foreign countries as
a result of our joining the Berne Convention.
JUSTICE BREYER: How does this provision do
that? I think maybe there are other provisions, but I
thought this provision is talking solely about books,
for example, that are already created.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is it not? I may have been
misreading, it but I certainly got that out of, like, 42
briefs and --
(Laughter.)
GENERAL VERRILLI: But we can't -- we can't
get the protections of Berne -- Berne is not a menu --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, oh. You say --
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- in which we get to
choose options.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well then, you know, as you
also know from the 42 briefs, that there's a lot of
argument that you could comply in other ways that are
less restrictive. And whether that's true or not, is
that -- there what you're saying is -- if I parody it,
it's not a fair reading I'm going to give -- but what
you're saying is we are -- here have a law which says
that libraries, music lovers, book buyers will either
pay more money for things already in existence or will
simply be unable to get them if they're orphans, on the
one hand, so that other countries will impose similar
kinds of restrictions upon their music lovers, music
goers, libraries and -- so that they pay more for our
works that are already in -- that are already produced,
or simply can't use them because they can't find who
owns them.
Now, that's in parody form, for
succinctness, what I think the argument is on the other
side --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Right, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and they'll say no
copyright law -- with your exception of when the country
was founded -- no copyright law has served that kind of
purpose. That's served often by tariffs --
GENERAL VERRILLI: But --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- but not by copyright
law.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But there's another way
of looking at that, Justice Breyer, of course, which is
that the -- but for the fact that these individual
authors lived in countries that didn't have copyright
relations with the United States, they would have the
protection of our copyright law, and they would have the
term of copyright --
JUSTICE BREYER: Not necessarily. There are
three categories. One is the category of the people who
you couldn't, because of the country; that's Egypt, I
think, and Russia. The second is the category of the
people -- of sound recordings, and their third is the
category, which is not the null set, of people who did
not comply with certain registration requirements. For
example, I believe that the widow of Samuel Brittan
failed to renew her copyright. And there are probably
many that failed to renew the copyright after 28 years,
and the reason that they didn't is because they didn't
think there was much money in it. And those are the
very works that the libraries want to get ahold of and
put in their databases.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And there is no textual
limit in the Copyright Clause that says that Congress
cannot provide the same limited term to those categories
of works that it provides to other works. There just is
no textual limit.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's true but for one
text. They say that text has to do with progress. And
when they read it historically in light of Macaulay, in
light of the Statute of Anne, in light of going back to
Venice and the copyrights, in light of going back to
letters between Madison and Jefferson -- that term has
always meant produce at least one new thing. And here
there is not one new thing.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And -- yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, there is. First,
with respect to section 514, it's part and parcel of
joining Berne, and Berne gives protection not only to
the previously created works but to newly created works,
and it creates additional economic incentives in
foreign -- by assuring better protection in foreign
countries for newly created works. So, it creates many,
many more than one new work.
And I think it's also quite reasonable,
Justice Breyer, to read the incentive structure here in
a way parallel to the way the Court did in Eldred, which
is to say that, just as in Eldred the Court assumed that
there was an implicit guarantee to an author making a
creation that that author would get the benefit not only
of the existing term of copyright but any extension, I
think here, with respect to American authors, it's an
implicit guarantee that they get the benefit not only of
the foreign protection in existence at the time but any
expansion of foreign protection through adjoining
treaties, and article 8 -- and section 514 implementing
article 18 of Berne is the price of admission to that
treaty --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General, there is
something at least at an intuitive level appealing about
Mr. Falzone's First Amendment argument. One day I can
perform Shostakovich; Congress does something, the next
day I can't. Doesn't that present a serious First
Amendment problem?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't think so, Mr.
Chief Justice, and I do think -- for a host of reasons.
One is I think that it's -- it's just not so simple, and
I think the question that I think Your Honor asked my
friend was what about when Congress expands the scope of
exclusive rights for existing works? Well, Congress has
done that many, many times, and musical composition is a
really good example of that. In 1831, Congress created
exclusive right in the publishing and vending of musical
compositions, but not in their public performance. So,
from 1831 on, once I bought the sheet music, the public
performance was, to borrow the Petitioners' way of
thinking, in the public domain. You could do it any
time you wanted without having to get --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right. Well,
that's --
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- a license to pay any
money. But --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's -- one answer
is that Congress has done this before.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But then, in 1897,
Congress granted an exclusive right in the public
performance of musical compositions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- and made it applicable
to all existing copyrights. And so --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Well, do you
have an argument other than that they've -- they've done
this before?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, that they've done
it many times before, and it's a process -- I think it
reflects -- and -- and the point is that no one has
thought with respect to any of those significant
adjustments of the boundaries, that it was an occasion
for First Amendment scrutiny. And I think that's
because of the wisdom of the Court's opinion in Eldred,
that these are --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But we have -- but
it's pertinent under the First Amendment in other areas,
right? It's a different analysis if your claim is the
government should open up a park as a public forum, than
if it's been a public forum for 200 years and the
government decides to close it down. Maybe they can do
it, but it's a different question.
So, why isn't this a different question,
from whether they can extend copyright protection that's
already there?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think -- because I
think there is -- once the Court gets into the business
of First Amendment analysis, there's no stopping point,
because all of the adjustments of the boundaries could
have the same kind of effect, I think, as the musical
composition example shows.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what about --
what about Jimi Hendrix, right? He has a distinctive
rendition of the national anthem, and all of a --
assuming the national anthem is suddenly entitled to
copyright protection that it wasn't before, he can't do
that, right?
GENERAL VERRILLI: What copyright does, by
definition, is provide exclusive rights in expression;
and so, if the First Amendment is triggered whenever
copyright provides exclusive rights in expression that
it didn't used to provide, then heightened scrutiny will
apply any time Congress exercises its copyright power.
And what the Court said in Eldred --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, he's just out of
luck? And that's just one example of many, where you
take existing works and you have a derivative work or
something that is distinctive to you. So, those people
are just out of luck?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, of course, under
section 514, they're not out of luck because it has
significant protections and accommodations for
derivative works. The question of whether there should
be heightened First Amendment scrutiny, we think, Eldred
answers, that -- that the First -- the Copyright Clause
already contains very significant accommodations of
First Amendment interests, the idea/expression
dichotomy, fair use. And -- and that is going to
provide -- maybe -- maybe Jimi Hendrix could claim fair
use in that situation.
And those are at the core of the traditional
contours of copyright. So, if Congress were to try to
extinguish fair use, I'd say yes, we'd have a First
Amendment issue there. If Congress were to try to
provide exclusive right in the ideas that are expressed,
as opposed to the expression itself, yes, we'd have a
First Amendment issue there. If Congress were to, say,
use the copyright power to engage in viewpoint
discrimination --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it seems to me what
you're saying, and I'm glad you gave this answer because
originally I thought I was going to put in my notes the
First Amendment doesn't apply to the copyright area --
and that just can't be.
What you're saying is, is that this law will
pass intermediate scrutiny. It's an important
governmental interest, and it's substantially related to
that.
GENERAL VERRILLI: We don't think it would
have any problem passing intermediate scrutiny, but we
don't think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but --
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- intermediate scrutiny
ought to apply, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But can you -- can you
cite me to some -- some authority which says the First
Amendment doesn't apply to a copyright --
GENERAL VERRILLI: No. We don't say it
doesn't apply, but Eldred --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The First Amendment test
doesn't apply. There has -- there has to be a -- a
test. Now, maybe -- say it isn't immediate scrutiny but
something else. But -- but certainly the First
Amendment is implicated.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. And what Eldred
said, as I read it, Justice Kennedy, is that unless
Congress alters their traditional contours of copyright,
then rational basis scrutiny, rather than any heightened
form of First Amendment scrutiny, applies.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even under -- even
under rational basis scrutiny, it seems to me that you
run into Justice Breyer's concern that the government
interest is vanishingly small when it comes to promoting
progress under the Copyright Clause, so that the
interest weighed on the other side of the -- the
restriction of free speech rights -- it's hard to say
that that's necessarily going to tip the balance in
every case.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think it is going to
tip the balance, Mr. Chief Justice, because the -- I --
the reason Congress enacted section 514, at the urging
of executive branch officials who were charged with
trying to ensure that we could integrate ourselves into
the international system of copyright protection, was
that if we didn't have this provision, then we were not
going to be taken seriously; our works were not going to
be protected in these foreign countries; and that it
would defeat the purpose of joining Berne in the first
place.
JUSTICE BREYER: It couldn't have been.
That must be somewhat overstated, mustn't it? Because
the only concern is not about protecting new works in
the foreign countries. The concern, as I understand it,
was that we've had things in copyright for many years,
and we want retroactive protection there. The countries
that didn't give it, like Japan, were not kicked out of
the Berne Convention.
Rather, we pursued them in the WTO for many
years, and I guess somebody might pursue us. And then
you get into an argument about whether there are other
ways. Now, is that strong enough to overcome what these
briefs are full of?
I'll give you an example. Save The Music is
charged with looking for Jewish music in the periods
'30s, '40s, and '50s. Other organizations might find a
treasure trove of literature that was -- that was
copyrighted in Czechoslovakia or in Warsaw, and they
want to put it on the Web, and they want people to
listen to it. But they have no more idea of how to
track down the person on that, and they aren't protected
by any notice requirements because they aren't reliance
parties.
We're told by Barbara Ringer, former
registrar, that there are millions of such instances
where people would like to go back and would like to put
music, literature, film, et cetera, in a form that
people can use it today, and there's no way to do it
without their becoming scofflaws or without their having
millions of dollars to hire infinite numbers of trackers
and lawyers. Now, that's the argument that's made on
the other side, as the interest in communication that's
important.
What do you say?
GENERAL VERRILLI: So, two points: First,
with respect to the interest in what foreign countries
will do, I think it's incorrect to assume that this will
be tit-for-tat, that if we don't enforce article 18, the
only thing other countries won't do is enforce article
18 with respect to our works, as opposed to believing
that we're not an -- an effective partner and not
enforcing their copyright laws for the whole corpus of
our works.
Second, Justice Breyer, that problem that
you identified just exists as a feature of copyright
law. Copyright law exists for a certain time. With
respect to those works, it's going to create that issue.
The problem here is just the result of a fortuity that
those works might have been published in a country that
at the time they were published didn't have copyright
relations with the United States. And what section 514
does is address that fortuity by putting those authors
in the same position they would have been in had their
country had copyright relations with the United States.
And so, I don't think that's a principled objection on a
constitutional basis to section 514 --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, here we have ASCAP.
We have ASCAP. I agree with you that it is a general
problem. It may be diminished in the United States, but
it still exists. And I guess the argument here is,
well, don't make it millions of times worse.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, it doesn't make it
millions of times worse. It applies to a small number
of -- but a significant number of countries --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what do you --
Barbara Ringer said a million. She numbers it in the
millions. Do you want to say, too?
GENERAL VERRILLI: No, we don't -- we don't
have any reason to doubt the -- the aggregate number.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's presupposing that
they're all going to give notice.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, with respect to
reliance parties, that's certainly true. They would
have to give notice. It is the case, Justice Ginsburg,
that if you're not a reliance party, then there would be
an infringement even without notice. So, I do think
there's something to that point. But, again, I just
think that's a result of the fortuity of the countries
not having copyright relations with the United States.
It's not about the -- it's not anything integral as a
matter of constitutional principle of the statute,
and --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- library, the day this
law was passed, had to go and pick out all the books it
had that were subject to copyright and throw them out,
or do what with them?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I -- I don't think it had
to --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Stop them from
circulation?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't think it had to
take --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure. How did
they protect themselves from infringement?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. I don't think that
they had -- I don't think there is an act of
infringement by having a library book on the shelf, and,
of course, there are protections for libraries built
into the Copyright Act in all events.
And I do -- if I could in my remaining time,
I want to go back to the history that we started with,
because I do think it is important that there is no --
as a matter of text, I think it's clear -- there is no
unyielding requirement that you cannot restore copyright
to works in the public domain. I think the history
really does bear that out.
I think Justice Sotomayor had the history
exactly right, that in 1790, you had three States with
no copyright statutes. Of the 10 States with copyright
statutes, you had 7 that did not provide copyright to
maps and charts, which the Federal statute did. And I
think this is the key point: Of the States that did
enact copyright statutes to -- in the 1780s, in advance
of the 1790 Federal Act, at least four, and depending on
how you counted, as many as eight provided copyright
protection only to works printed after the date of the
State statute. They did that at the urging of the
Continental Congress in 1783.
So, I don't think there's any doubt that
when Congress enacted the Copyright Act in 1790, it made
a conscious choice to take a different approach, to
grant copyright protection to existing works, including
many, many, many works that were freely available for
exploitation in those States --
JUSTICE ALITO: Doesn't that show at most
that retroactive protection can be granted when there is
an enormous interest in doing so, namely, the
establishment of a uniform copyright system at the
beginning of the country? Because if Congress had not
done that and had said -- the alternative would be to
say things can be copyrighted going forward, then you
would have different copyright laws in all of the
States.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think -- I don't think
so, Justice Alito. I think they could have followed the
model nationally of prospective copyright only and
extinguishing the prior copyright --
JUSTICE ALITO: Right.
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- and -- but they didn't
make that choice. They made a different choice. Now,
my friend suggests that the 1790 Act was just a
transition. But, of course, the same thing is really
true in an important sense of section 514. It's part of
a tradition -- of a transition of the United States into
the international system, which has required an
adjustment of our rules in order to bring us into
conformity with the international system.
And beyond the example, of course, of the
1790 -- and by the way, with respect to that language in
the 1790 copyright -- who hath or hath not have
copyright -- that's just a rerun of an argument that the
Court rejected in Wheaton v. Peters. In Wheaton, the
Court said that that language in the 1790 Act was
referring to pre-publication common law copyright, not
post-publication common law copyright.
Beyond that, it seems to me pretty clear
that what that language was referring to -- of course,
Congress presupposed the existence of copyrights. There
were all these State statutes that created some
copyrights. But what Congress did was act far more
broadly.
And -- so, I do think -- and then when one
looks at the examples of patents -- and I think the
Oliver Evans example and that case is an important
example. Early in our history, Congress creates a new
patent term to an expired patent. President Jefferson
signs it. Secretary of State Madison issues it. Chief
Justice Marshall upholds it as a circuit justice, and
the Court upholds it against a charge that it's
impermissibly burdening people who act in reliance on
the expiration of the prior patent.
There wasn't a word in this Court's decision
in that case about any potential constitutional
infirmity with doing that. And one would think if this
was such a significant and viable principle of
constitutional law, that someone would have brought it
up in those cases. In fact, the striking thing about
reading the Evans decision is that the Court clearly
looks at this all as a matter of legislative policy
judgment. It says, you know, yes, you're right, it
might have been an argument, a good argument in favor of
creating some reliance interest here, but that's a
judgment Congress should have made if anybody was going
to make it. It didn't -- and there is no reading of the
-- there's no required reading of that statute that has
to protect the reliance party.
So, I don't -- I just think when you look at
the patent protection, when you look at the 1790 Act,
when you consider the fact that when Congress expands
exclusive rights, as it did for example with respect to
musical compositions but did in the 1976 Act with
respect to lots of exclusive rights, it does so with
existing copyrights.
And all of that points up the wisdom of what
this court said in Eldred, that within very wide
margins, these are matters for legislative choice.
These are policy calls that require the balancing of a
complex set of interests, the drawing of a complex set
of lines made even more complex by virtue of the fact
that we are now trying to make a transition into full
participation in an international system, which is of
vital importance to protecting one of our most valuable
economic exports, intellectual property.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Falzone, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY T. FALZONE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. FALZONE: Thank you. I have -- I have
four points to make: First one, refusing to provide any
protection for a work is setting the term at zero. The
point of the limited times restriction is it -- excuse
me -- it forces Congress to tell us when the end has
come. And if Congress is forever free to change its
mind, then we can never know if the end has come.
Point number two, this statute does not and
cannot promote progress, that is, the creation and
spread of knowledge and learning. When we joined Berne
in 1988, we got all of its prospective benefits or, as
the Government put it, secured the highest available
level of multilateral copyright protection for U.S.
artists, authors, and their creators. This statute is
not about that. It's simply about rewarding people who
made things long ago. It's --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: At the time we joined
Berne, there was an appreciation that we deferred the
article 18 issue. There wasn't any -- anyone who said
that we satisfied it.
MR. FALZONE: No. There was an express
finding -- explicit finding written into the statute,
that -- and Congress found explicitly that we could
comply with all Berne obligations without removing
anything from the public domain.
Now, third point --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, there were many
people who read article 18 in a different way, and
Congress was later persuaded that that was right.
MR. FALZONE: Congress never revisited that
finding. So, no, they found what they found in 1988,
and they never revisited it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They -- they found that
compliance with article 18 was appropriate for us to
become a full member of the international copyright
community.
MR. FALZONE: Congress did not make that
finding, and I don't think you can even glean that from
the testimony that was presented to Congress. The
problem here is the -- the right to use works in the
public domain has defined the freedom of speech that the
public has known since 1790. The 1790 Act made these
freedoms clear by placing works unambiguously and
clearly in the public domain, including all foreign
works. So, even since before we had a First Amendment,
that has defined the freedom of speech that the public
knew.
And that right has also made sure that the
copyright sequence provides ever-increasing protection
for public speech rights. It gives partial protection
for some public speech interests during any initial
period of protection, but that blossoms into complete
protection for all public speech interests, once we
reach the limit Congress picks, once they place the work
in the public domain.
The burden on speech that this statute
imposes is remarkable. Let's start with the performance
right, which is central to my clients. There can't be
any doubt, as I think Chief Justice Roberts got at, that
the performance has a huge amount of original expression
bound up in it. It's the reason it's different to see
King Lear at the Royal Shakespeare Company; it's the
reason it's different when John Coltrane plays a jazz
standard. Huge amount of expression.
But even if you put performances aside, this
Court has recognized in case after case that there is a
critical speech interest in publishing the work of
another author, in showing a film created by another, or
for that matter, performing the work of another. So,
the -- the burden here is it took speech rights of 250
million Americans and turned them into the private
property of foreign authors, all on the bare possibility
that might put more money in the pocket of some U.S.
authors.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: All this rides on
accepting your argument that zero is a limited time.
MR. FALZONE: No. Not on the First
Amendment side. Not at all. No, no, no.
No. That is -- the First Amendment argument
is completely independent of that. Even if you find
Congress could do this on the Copyright Clause, we still
have that First Amendment problem, and the -- there is
no way the Government can pass intermediate scrutiny
here.
This was not required by Berne. The
Government does not even contend Section 514 was
required by Berne, nor could it, because that would
violate Congress's explicit findings they made in 1988.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you say it was
would required by TRIPS?
MR. FALZONE: No. Because TRIPS just
implements Berne. So that the problem here is this
statute was not passed --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it not so that if we
don't comply with Berne 18, then we are subject to being
sanctioned by some World Trade Organization --
MR. FALZONE: There was very vague testimony
about the unsupported possibility that could happen, and
that's why the Government falls back on this interest of
avoiding a dispute.
Here is the problem: If the government can
get around First Amendment limits by signing a treaty,
and then the flexibility to take away public speech
rights is defined by some complaint proffered by some
treaty partner, then the First Amendment is defined only
by the perceptions, the complaints, and, frankly, the
imagination of foreign countries. That can't be the way
it works.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:05 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
49:21,24 46:24 assuring 37:23 5:25 12:21 17:13
alternative 49:16 appreciation 53:12 author 5:2 6:22 8:24 2:10 3:7 28:9
38:17,20 40:5,9,20 architecture 19:2 6:20,21 7:3 8:18 benefit 3:21 33:23
14:12,25 American 3:11 14:23 15:5 16:5 36:10 38:8 46:13 33:19,20 34:15
48:7,10,25 21:25 22:22 23:20 17:4 18:1 19:24 53:8 55:16,18 35:1,1 37:20,20
50:2,14,21 38:8 20:5,6,7,7 24:19 author's 26:11,17 38:13 44:10,19
52:2 54:11 Americans 3:13 28:8 32:18 33:15 available 49:9 53:6 53:4,12,18 56:4,6
Anne 10:16 37:11 55:23 a.m 1:14 3:2 beyond 7:21 50:9,17
20:1 25:9 art 27:24 B bit 16:5 20:5 23:17
31:24 39:14 article 38:12,13 B 1:18 2:6 28:8 blossoms 54:21
45:24,25 53:13,22 back 4:24 6:10 8:9 body 12:7
3:6 52:18 ASCAP 46:18,19 balancing 52:8 34:18 47:20
51:19 asked 24:14 38:24 bare 55:16 bought 39:6
assume 15:18 23:9 baseline 15:9 branch 44:4
assuming 15:17 bear 48:17 26:3,7 34:1,8,16
37:8,17 47:9 clearly 33:22 51:14 concept 17:6 18:22 6:21 32:22
44:12 46:5,18 cetera 45:13 54:13 concern 43:19 44:14 constitutional 46:17
challenged 18:14 clients 55:2 44:15 47:17 51:9,12
chart 12:23 13:3 Coltrane 55:7 conclusory 24:21 contains 41:23
cheaper 26:13 21:21 22:1,17 27:3 confidence 22:3 14:17,21
choice 6:7 49:7 50:1 community 3:24 19:2,9 21:24 23:6 Copeland 3:21,23
10:19 14:9 cite 43:3 31:23 32:16 33:19 50:19,21 51:1,19 15:8,15 18:9 19:3
19:13 24:23 citizen 12:24 54:3 51:25 52:24,25 20:10 23:23 24:2,7
43:25 47:10 claim 14:24 26:24 complied 29:7 53:17,23,24 54:6,8 25:6 27:5 28:15,20
51:9 55:10 27:3 31:2 40:10 comply 5:10 20:9 54:23 55:25 28:23 29:3,5,11,14
57:5,6 42:1 35:7 36:20 53:18 congressional 29:14 29:17,22,25 30:17
37:5 5:16 10:11 20:10 composed 23:13 conscious 49:7 31:21 32:7,20 33:2
32:20 33:2,12,23 40:23 10:14 15:23 36:10,12,13,22,23
34:22 43:10 50:17 54:12 concentrating 8:15 Constitution 6:17 46:6,7,11,15 47:15
48:10,15,20 create 23:19 27:24 decisions 24:25 16:24 18:16 19:22 enforce 27:8,15
49:1,6 28:1 29:12 34:14 declare 27:4,8 20:18 22:12 23:24 29:7 45:24,25
46:8 defeat 44:10 24:4,18,24 39:8 enforcing 46:3
created 15:20 27:19 deferred 53:12 48:16 53:19 54:10 engage 42:10
54:4,18 55:25 31:6 34:6,9,19 defined 29:2 54:10 54:13,24 enjoyed 4:15
45:4 49:17 creates 34:10 37:22 definition 34:4 41:6 28:8 32:16 44:5
12:17 13:25 creating 16:14 Department 1:19 doubt 47:5 49:5 55:3 entitled 4:13 28:20
37:12 39:21 30:22 51:18 departure 24:6 drawing 52:9 41:2
52:4 creation 20:15,19 depending 25:14 due 29:18 equal 11:18
26:2,2,4 crystal 6:14 derived 29:21 E essence 32:2
57:3,4 Czechoslovakia 28:16 Early 51:1 establishment 49:14
29:5 32:10 D 3:1 different 7:2 11:10 40:22 ever-increasing
35:15 36:10 databases 37:2 11:14 14:3 19:17 effective 46:2 54:18
44:9,15,17 date 3:17,18,18 7:2 24:20 26:12,15 Egypt 36:16 exactly 10:10 11:14
46:25 7:3,6,13,21 8:4 40:10,14,15 49:7 eight 49:1 24:5 48:19
57:1 10:12,13 49:2 49:18 50:1 53:22 either 32:19 33:2 example 9:13 34:19
32:16 36:1 day 10:9 12:8 38:17 differently 9:2 Eldred 3:16 10:20 41:13 44:25 50:9
46:10,15 38:19 47:19 diminished 46:20 10:22,23 33:21 50:25 51:1 52:1
De 8:10,22 9:9,14 disagree 14:22 34:7 34:1,2 38:3,4 40:6 examples 18:8
29:12 36:8 dead 31:6,11,19 discrimination 52:6 exception 18:21
48:9 50:3,9 deadlines 18:25 42:11 elicited 34:3 36:1
deal 11:24 17:14 dispute 22:19 56:19 eligibility 6:13 16:1 exceptions 6:10
16:15 18:18 decades 3:13 41:15 else's 24:12 excluding 23:23
24:25 28:11 decide 6:3 distinctly 8:11 enact 48:24 exclusive 6:2,4,18
33:21 38:3,4 decided 12:8 14:18 doing 4:1 12:9 23:24 enacted 44:3 49:6 31:3 39:1,4,17
41:11 50:13 17:22 21:11 32:3,5 29:24 49:13 51:10 enacting 32:14 41:6,8 42:7 52:1,3
51:5,14 52:6 decides 19:2 40:13 dollars 23:12 45:16 33:13 excusable 18:23
decision 6:8,9 7:8 domain 3:12 6:12,16 encourage 21:4 excuse 30:10 52:23
fact 6:8 8:2 23:7 54:7 founded 36:2 give 4:17 6:7 7:1
38:10 50:19 fail 14:23 15:6 7:14,25 14:14,17 30:24 31:15 34:9 35:10
13:25 33:24 fair 28:16 35:10 24:9 33:14,15 free 10:24 43:23 given 8:4 11:4,11
38:7 39:1,21 41:25 42:1,5 37:18 38:17,19 52:25 34:5
49:8 52:4 falls 56:18 40:5,9,20 41:7,21 freedom 54:10,15 gives 17:25 37:20
3:5,6,8 4:5,21 5:7 43:3,7,10,16 44:10 freely 20:22 28:2 giving 4:1 5:5 8:10
9:12,19 10:7,10,20 56:24 50:2 glean 54:7
8:4 16:1,13 15:4,7,13,18 16:10 focus 24:1 furthering 23:14,15 45:12 47:20 48:12
51:7 16:23 17:5,21 18:5 followed 49:21 23:25 goers 35:17
17:10,11 51:2 forces 5:16 52:24 G going 4:17 6:3,3
21:3,6
22:6,9
23:5,16 24:1
20:24 21:10,21 28:10 29:20 30:10 27:25 32:16 34:11
25:12,23
27:1,6,12
29:15 31:18 32:10 31:13,16 32:17 41:25 42:14 43:24
28:6
53:15
54:6 55:21
forever 52:25 39:20,25 40:18 gotten 29:4
55:4,8 formalities 5:10 46:19,23 47:4,8,23 24:16 32:4 33:1,7
17:9 19:3 formality 15:25 52:16 53:6 56:2,5,18,20
24:3 33:1
40:16 former 45:10 Germany 25:5,18 governmental 42:19
48:22,25
fortuity 46:9,13 Ginsburg 3:19 4:8 8:25 9:6,21,25
45:2 55:24
importance 52:13 54:22 19:24 20:4,12,23 knowledge 20:16
48:13 50:4,25 international 32:3,6 24:17 25:3,4,15,24
28:5,7
incentive 22:8,10,14 Internet 26:14 28:10,13 29:16 language 5:15 7:5
33:5,9,10
26:19,21,24 27:22 26:17 42:6,9 46:8 37:8,17 38:2,15,22 12:4,9 14:6,7,10
48:12,16,18 incorrect 45:23 42:12,24 43:1,2,7 25:21 27:3 28:20
independent 55:24 J 43:13,17,19 44:2 29:19 34:2 35:11
52:16 53:11
54:2 55:3,19
9:23 infirmity 51:10 John 55:7 justification 24:15Lear 55:6
join 32:7 K legislative 51:15
judgment 29:14 kept 21:1 55:1
48:9 lots 52:3 minute 13:4 nice 33:5 opposed 42:8 46:1
6:2 Madison 37:13 51:3 money 27:21 35:13 47:7,10,12 ordinary 24:2
9:5 10:11,15 main 34:2 36:25 39:13 55:17 novel 22:3 Organization 56:15
11:1,2 making 21:25 38:5 monopolies 31:1 null 36:19 organizations 45:2
16:11 17:1,23 map 12:23 13:3,20 motivation 24:13 number 46:24,25 original 55:4
20:7 maps 48:22 move 10:23 23:17 47:5 53:2 originally 42:14
29:21 30:16 margins 52:7 moving 15:14 numbers 45:16 47:2 orphans 35:14
33:11 37:4,7 mark 5:18 multibillionaire ought 43:1
market 20:25 21:12 23:10 O overcome 44:23
6:18,21,23 markets 21:1 39:6 44:25 45:1,13 obligations 53:18 owned 24:24
8:17,20 9:6 marking 5:17 musical 39:2,4,18 obscures 28:17 owns 16:9 35:20
17:15,17,18 Marshall 51:4 40:22 52:2 obtaining 32:22
18:21 20:3 materials 26:15 mustn't 44:13 occasion 40:4 P
37:5 52:23 matter 1:12 6:6 16:2 October 1:10 10:5,5 P 3:1
28:20,24 33:17 N 10:9 PAGE 2:2
30:13 56:21 matters 52:7 national 6:13 15:25 15:18 35:2,2 parcel 37:19
31:6 10:1 23:18 24:10 needs 9:23 17:10 20:22 27:11 parties 45:9 47:9
53:10 member 16:15 54:4 neglect 18:23 27:14 28:2 39:6 partner 46:2 56:24
million 23:12 47:2 18:14 53:1,24 54:1 opera 23:13 passage 14:3
45:1 45:16 46:22,24 33:23,24 34:3 operation 16:19 passes 20:3
18:8,10,24 point 14:5,11,24 47:17 51:11 44:14 52:13 publishers 31:2
31:6 36:15 23:9 28:12 30:21 principled 46:16 protection 4:14,15 publishing 39:4
41:15 40:2,20 47:13 printed 12:16,23 7:7,14,24,25 9:10 55:11
51:6 48:23 52:23 53:2 49:2 11:25,25 12:5,8 purpose 36:3 44:10
53:20 prior 27:11 49:23 14:6,8,11 16:14,25 pursue 44:21
55:1,4 portion 20:2 problem 4:5 8:2 9:20 31:19,20,21 33:19 putting 46:13
54:21 possibility 55:16 29:1,12 30:24 49:8,12 51:24 question 4:24 14:13
post-publication 56:20 protections 35:1 31:25 38:24 40:14
45:7 33:7 41:10 42:10 proffered 56:23 provided 14:7,10
3:7 33:14 present 38:19 promote 20:8,12 44:7
52:19 presented 54:8 21:21 53:3 provisions 34:17
14:16
47:20 presupposed 13:25 property 3:13 23:21 14:15 15:16 16:5,9
11:1
38:2 43:13
54:23 previous 29:19 protect 10:2 11:12 39:6,8,17 40:11,12
39:3 Remember 6:1 result 34:15 46:9 Samuel 36:21 separate 20:6
50:3 remove 6:11 12:14 47:14 sanctioned 56:15 sequence 54:18
33:6 36:24 removing 22:11 49:12 Save 44:25 seriously 44:8
47:5 55:5,7 53:18 retrospective 20:2 saying 5:13,14 8:17 served 36:2,3
renewed 4:23 reward 23:19 6:17 8:3 13:12 setting 4:6 5:7 17:24
55:10 requirement 33:22 14:11 17:6,9 19:8 13:21 20:4,12 23:8 shelf 48:8
resident 12:25 48:19 49:24 51:16 sciences 32:1 45:18 55:22
15:22 17:24 Roberts 3:3 10:3,8 Secretary 51:3 32:22 35:14,19
46:12,15 2:7 28:9 28:5,7 38:15 39:10 30:2 31:5 32:14 sit 22:12
responding 11:8 39:14,19,22 40:8 37:19 38:12 41:18 sitting 22:2
51:6,18,22 restore 9:24 48:15 52:16 55:3 57:3 56:5 28:17 42:2
restrictions 35:16 Russia 36:17 Senate 32:23 solely 34:18
24:15 25:14 30:3 take 5:2 14:14 15:15 23:1,8 25:2,12,12 today 9:11,23 22:13
12:19 48:20,21,24 50:20 talking 4:9,9,14 5:4 36:25 38:1,8,21,22 Trade 56:15
14:2,22 stimulate 20:19,21 6:19 7:16 8:22 38:23,24,24 40:1,5 tradition 50:5
20:23 Stop 47:25 19:18 22:16 30:20 40:18,19,22 41:21 traditional 24:7 42:3
26:6 stopping 8:6 40:20 34:18 42:21,23 44:1 43:14
27:2,10 Stravinski 5:4 talks 12:21 45:23 46:16 47:12 transferred 13:2,5
striking 51:13 tariffs 36:3 47:14,23 48:2,6,7 13:17
48:4,18 strong 44:23 Taylor 14:18 48:13,14,16,18,23 transforming 23:20
54:10,15,19 substantial 11:6 37:5,13 38:7 51:2 thought 17:8 24:20 treaties 28:25 38:12
55:11 33:17 52:22 25:4,20 34:18 40:3 treating 7:1
56:22 substantially 42:19 terms 9:23 16:3 42:14 treaty 32:25 38:14
suddenly 41:2 text 12:15,18 13:24 time 3:20 4:2,11,11 trip 26:14
suppose 21:24 thanks 18:1 17:17,18,19,20,21 trying 11:7 17:14
51:3 sure 6:17 7:18 13:16 thereof 12:24 38:10 39:9 41:10 turn 3:15 24:11
12:4,4,6,24 48:4 54:17 37:14,15 45:25 53:11 55:20 two 6:13 26:11
25:7,8,10,14 synonym 16:6 50:3 51:13 times 7:5,11 9:7 45:21 53:2
27:18 system 8:16 11:20 things 15:16 16:25 15:21 20:3 24:5
46:12,15,20 32:3,7 44:6 49:14 17:1 20:20,22 39:2 40:1 46:22,24 U
48:19,20,23 50:6,8 52:12 23:23 28:2 35:13 52:23 unable 31:14 35:14
50:5 44:16 49:17 53:10 tip 43:24 44:2 unambiguously
30:10,14,16 31:7 weighed 43:22 54:14 57:2 11:22 12:14,14,21
44:15 33:4,8,11 34:7,10 weren't 3:24 7:22 32:15 56:15 17:24 48:19,25
36:4,7 37:3,16,18 We'll 3:3 worse 46:22,24 51:24 54:11,11
25:7,8,10,14 43:5,12 44:1 45:21 45:10 46:2 writing 22:3 1831 39:3,6
27:18 46:23 47:4,8,23 we've 8:1 10:15 17:1 written 5:11 23:13 1891 28:19
46:12,15,20 48:2,6 49:20,25 44:16 25:5 53:16 1897 39:16
50:5 versus 9:14 whatsoever 15:24 wrong 5:5 25:11 19 11:15 15:1,10,21
16:12 21:16 viewed 23:14 willing 25:8 X 1988 22:10,15 53:5
9:24 10:6 24:6 40:12
41:25 42:2,5 30:19,23 31:20
18:18 25:22 44:21 28 2:7 4:23 16:1,13
45:14 54:9 33:25 37:25 41:14
37:1 44:17 York 12:1 14:7,10 36:23
47:3 48:12 14:10
55:13
3 2:4
20:25 25:19 4:25 5:10 6:25 17:23 28:15,23
55:17 war 18:10,10,12 7:23 11:4 12:2,7 29:15 52:22 55:20 4
wasn't 41:3 51:8 21:1,1,11,13,16 1 10:9 12:20 42 34:22 35:6
32:1
37:19
41:18 44:3
50:4 56:5
2:10
10:9
48:21
38:12
