IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
PACIFIC OPERATORS OFFSHORE, :
LLP, ET AL., : No. 10-507
Petitioners :
v. :
LUISA L. VALLADOLID, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 11, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C., for
Petitioners.
JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
the Federal Respondent.
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for the
private Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Federal Respondent 26
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.
On behalf of the private Respondent 41
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-507, Pacific Operators
Offshore v. Valladolid.
Mr. Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The straightforward question in this case is
whether the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act provides a
remedy for a worker injured in a forklift mishap on dry
land. The answer is no. A worker injured on dry land
from operations on dry land has a remedy in the State
workers' compensation law, but not from OCSLA's
extension of the Longshore Act to the outer continental
shelf. Indeed, both the Benefits Review Board and the
Ninth Circuit here held that the accident occurred too
far inland for direct coverage under the Longshore Act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When you say on
land, do you -- where do you put the 3-mile State
offshore limit? Does that count as land under your
view?
MR. CLEMENT: No, it wouldn't count as land,
Mr. Chief Justice. If there were platforms on there
that were themselves treated as land, that might be. I
think most of the 3 miles from shore is going to be the
navigable waters, and that might be covered, for
example, directly under the Longshore Act. But as I
say, one of the anomalies here is there was a direct
Longshore Act claim in this case, and the determination
was that the facility here was too far inland for direct
coverage under the Longshore Act.
So, therefore, the counterintuitive
proposition on the other side of the table today is that
in extending the Longshore Act to the outer continental
shelf, Congress effectively created a boomerang effect
that caused the Longshore Act to apply further inland
than it otherwise would.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Clement, just to follow
up on the Chief Justice's question, if there's a
helicopter crash in the water, let's say it occurs 2.5
miles from the shore, is that covered? And, similarly,
would it be covered if it occurred 3.5 miles from the
shore?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kagan, I think
the best answer is both of those crashes would be
covered directly by the Longshore Act because the
Longshore Act by its own terms, not extended by OCSLA,
covers the navigable waters, and both of those would be
accidents occurring in the navigable waters. And in the
part of this Court's opinion in the Pacific Operators
case addressing the DOHSA claim, this Court said that a
helicopter effectively, when it's performing this kind
of ferrying function, is a vessel. So, I would think
that the right answer there is not that OCSLA extends
the Longshore Act, but the Longshore Act applies
directly under those circumstances.
JUSTICE ALITO: The curious thing about this
case is that the statutory language seems to me to speak
quite clearly to some theory of causation. Any injury
occurring as the result of operations conducted on the
outer continental shelf. That's -- that's causation.
Maybe it's but-for, maybe it's proximate, but it's some
-- some species of causation. And yet, nobody wants
this really to be -- neither you nor your adversary nor
the Government wants this to be a -- to be based on
causation. Everyone wants to smuggle something else
into -- into here -- into this.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Alito, let me
talk first about the causation and then about the
smuggling, if I can. As to the causation, I think there
is both causation in this 1333(b) and a situs
requirement that both sides acknowledge. At a bare
minimum, there have to be injuries resulting from
operations conducted on the shelf. And I think that
alone, that causation principle alone, if faithfully
applied, is enough to decide this case in our favor.
But let me address the smuggling, because I
do think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Give me an example of a --
of an injury that occurs on the shelf that is not a
consequence of operations conducted. What -- just
beachcombers out there, or what?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think the best example
would be, Your Honor -- is somebody who's on the shelf
but they're not employed in the relevant production
purposes. And so, you might have an --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What are they doing out
there?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, you might have an
accountant out there. You might just have some
employees who are out there whale watching or something.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How many accountants go
to platforms?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I
think it's worth recognizing -- I mean, I don't know how
many go. I doubt very many go. But Congress passed
this statute at a time when they didn't know the full
scope of the operations that would take place out on the
shelf. And so, what they're trying to do is they're
trying to -- at the one point, they're trying to limit
it to employees who are engaged in the operations out
there that are designed for the production of the
mineral wealth of the shelf. And so, I think that's
what some of the language is directed at.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if that -- if that's
what Congress meant, then the emphasis should be on is
this person one who regularly works on the outer
continental shelf. And the -- this worker, we're told,
was on the outer continental shelf 98 percent of the
time.
MR. CLEMENT: Sure. And if he was at the --
on the outer continental shelf at the time of this
accident, he probably wouldn't have been injured.
But the one thing I think the statute
clearly speaks to is not status, but it speaks to, as
Justice Alito suggested, at a minimum a relationship
between the operations that caused the injury and the
fact that those operations have to be conducted on the
shelf.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But Mr. --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But if -- if you had said
status or situs, then it seems to me it would have made
more sense, given the language of the statute. We will
all have hypotheticals. We won't have too many, but
it's quite common on oil rigs that the employees bring
some of the equipment back to the land, clean it,
prepare it, and so that they can bring it back to the
next -- the next shift on the rig. And some of this
machinery is complicated. It has springs in it.
Suppose that the worker brings the machine back from the
rig to the land, to the base of operations that's
land-based, and is injured in repairing that machine.
Under your view, no coverage?
MR. CLEMENT: No coverage, Your Honor, and I
think that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think that's quite
difficult to square with the "as a result" language
because this is a result of the operation. Let's just
say the machine got broken because of the -- of the
operations, and there -- and he's fixing it and he's
injured.
MR. CLEMENT: No, I disagree, Your Honor,
respectfully, and I think your way of looking at that
hypothetical doesn't give sufficient import to the
phrase "conducted on the shelf." It's -- what
Respondents want to do is they want you to look at the
statute as saying as long as there is an injury that
results from operations that have the purpose of
developing the outer continental shelf, that that's
enough. And if that were enough, I think the answer to
your hypothetical would be that's covered.
But the statute very specifically says that
they have to be injuries as a result of operations
conducted on the shelf for the purpose of extracting the
mineral wealth of the shelf.
And so, that first "on the shelf" I think
clearly modifies the operations. Only operations
conducted on the shelf are --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the
Government and --
MR. CLEMENT: -- covered by the statute.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The Government and the
Ninth Circuit take care of that by saying that the
person has to have -- the injured employee has to have
spent substantial amount of time on the -- on the
offshore operations. So, you could add that.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, you can't add that, Your
Honor, because if there's one thing that is absolutely
clear about this statute it's that it doesn't include a
status test that looks for the predominant place you
spend your time. And that's not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought your brief,
your reply brief, said you -- you superimpose a status
test. You have the situs of the injury, and then you
superimpose status. So, your test is not simple state
of -- place of injury.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, I agree. I thought
you had a backup argument --
MR. CLEMENT: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- in your -- in your
reply brief.
MR. CLEMENT: Sure. I mean, I have two
arguments, and let me try to address both, which is to
say, on the causation point, if you look at just
causation and you don't have a situs and a status
requirement, then in that scenario, there's no way to
get just a status test. And the only thing I would
implore you to think about in that is not only is it not
in the statute, but there is a statute that has a
status-based remedy that travels with the worker
wherever they go. It's the Jones Act, and it
specifically is written in status terms. And that was a
model that Congress had before it, but it specifically
rejected the admiralty model for dealing with these
structures and adopted the model that has them treated
as --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you call status --
if the test is where you spend a substantial amount of
time working, is that what you call status?
MR. CLEMENT: That's their status test,
exactly.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You -- but you call that
status?
MR. CLEMENT: I call that their pure status
test, which they themselves cite to Chandris, which is a
Jones Act case. That just doesn't work. This was not
the Jones Act.
Now, there is a test where we say that the
best reading of the statute is status plus situs. And
if I could try to get this argument out -- it's a little
bit complicated, because I think the defect of this
argument, if it has one, is it doesn't leap out directly
from 1333(b), and you have to read 1333(b) in
conjunction with both the rest of 1333 and in
conjunction with 903(a) of the Longshore Workers' Act.
If you do that, I think you will see there is a situs
requirement and a status requirement.
Let me start with the rest of the 1333. If
you think about this statute, the primary engine for
applying Federal law to the shelf is not 1333(b); it's
1333(a). It applies all of Federal law to the shelf.
But some statutes, it doesn't work, and the
Longshore Act is one of them. If you apply the
Longshore Act to the shelf without any modifications, it
won't cover the shelf because it by its terms has a
situs requirement that is limited to the navigable
waters and at that point the drydocks.
So, Congress has to tailor the longshore
remedy to the reality of the shelf, and it does it in
two ways.
One, it has this language that everyone's
focused on that is something of a status requirement in
that it limits the recovery to employees who are engaged
in certain activities. But the rest of the language in
1333(b) is important. It's these definitions (1), (2),
and (3), and they effectively define terms in the
Longshore Act to make them work for purposes of
extending it to the shelf.
And the key definition is (3). Three
defines the term "United States" when used in a
geographical sense, and it defines it to include the
shelf, the artificial islands, and the fixed attachments
thereto. Now, that's a puzzle if you look at 1333(b) in
isolation, because it's defining the term "United
States" for geographical purposes, and 1333(b) does not
use the term "United States" for geographical purposes.
But another statute does; it's 903. It's the longshore
remedy that's extended.
And 903(a) uses the term "United States."
And 903(a), if you want to look at, is at page 96 of the
petition appendix. But that's the situs requirement.
The situs requirement of 903(a) unmodified limits
recovery to the navigable waters and drydocks. So, if
you take that definition from (b)(3) and essentially
superimpose it on 903(a), you then get a remedy that has
a situs requirement; there's a recovery, but only if the
injury occurs on the navigable waters, drydocks, the
shelf, artificial islands, and the attachments thereto.
So it's -- as I say, it's a complicated
argument, and it doesn't stare you in the face if you
look at 1333(b) --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. How does
that -- how does that provide you situs on the adjacent
waters?
MR. CLEMENT: I don't -- with respect,
Justice Sotomayor, I think you get that without OCSLA,
which is to say I think that there's a remedy under the
Longshore Act directly under the adjacent waters because
the adjacent waters are navigable waters.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I see. So, you're
saying you don't even -- you're not going --
MR. CLEMENT: You don't need those, and that
just underscores that Congress in the statute is really
dealing with a very particular problem with the shelf
and the artificial islands and platforms attached to
them.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, how do you get to
the water above the shelf?
MR. CLEMENT: Same way, Your Honor, which is
to say they're navigable waters.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Instead of saying
they're part of the shelf?
MR. CLEMENT: Exactly, and they're not. And
the statute I think couldn't be clearer about that
because 1332 --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think the issue that
Justice Kennedy was alluding to was the example the
Ninth Circuit used: A pitcher on the mound throws a
baseball and hits the batter. The situs is not the
mound, but the injury has occurred as a result of
pitching. And so, he's coming up with examples, and I
think that's what the Ninth Circuit was saying when it
was creating the test of a substantial nexus between the
operation and the injury.
MR. CLEMENT: I'm --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that's the part of
your -- of your definition that gives no credence to
that possibility.
MR. CLEMENT: Well -- and I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You may be arguing that
as a factual matter what this man was doing on land was
not a substantial nexus. That's a different issue than
providing a test that limits injury to an operation
solely on the shelf.
MR. CLEMENT: And if I could take that --
there's a couple of pieces to that, Justice Sotomayor.
First of all, I would say that I think that the
hypothetical, let's say, of, you know, a nut or
something coming off the shelf and hitting somebody
somewhere else is -- illustrates the difference between
our primary argument and our backup argument.
On our primary argument, somebody who -- if
the nut hits somebody in the navigable waters, they
wouldn't recover from OCSLA; they would recover under
the Longshore Act directly because they were on the
navigable waters.
On our backup theory, that it's a tight
proximate cause test, then I would say, yes, that person
can recover under OCSLA, but that's really a fortuitous
set of circumstances precisely because I wouldn't apply
a substantial nexus test, which seems to me just an
invitation to kind of play around with --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you're not -- you
don't want a but-for test. Or do you?
MR. CLEMENT: Certainly not.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. You don't
want a proximate cause test.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I could live with a
proximate cause test as long as it's a proximate cause
test that's tailored to the statute. And what I mean by
that is I think if you look at the statute, you can't
have a proximate cause test that doesn't take geography
into account.
And I think -- in particular, I think in a
case like this, you have to ask yourself not just
proximate cause in the abstract, but were there
operations somewhere other than the shelf that were a
more direct proximate cause of the injury? And if
that's the case, then the remedy lies in the law that
applies to those other operations.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Give me your definition
of causation now.
MR. CLEMENT: What's that?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is a new version of
proximate cause, so --
MR. CLEMENT: Well, you know, it's -- it's
funny because, you know, this Court has on more than one
occasion sort of remarked that "proximate cause" itself
is a weird formulation because "proximate" sounds like
it has a location aspect to it. And we actually think,
for purposes of this statute, that should be right.
It's proximate cause as tailored to this statute and the
policies of this statute, and I think that would want to
really take the geography into account.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Clement, I don't really
understand proximate cause as applied to a -- a statute
that provides for automatic liability rather than
liability for negligence. To say that it's a proximate
cause of a particular act of negligence is one thing,
and we have a whole body of law that gives guidance for
that. But do you know of any other situation where we
talk of proximate cause, something proximately caused by
operations? Not by a particular act of negligence or --
I don't know how to apply proximate cause to an
operation.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, I would
say two things. One is I do think there's an anomaly
here, but I do think it's -- you know, you're not being
asked to apply proximate cause for purposes of assessing
liability because, as you say, strict liability -- it's
kind of automatic liability.
But what I would say is you are being asked,
at least under the backup theory, to apply proximate
cause as a way of determining the geographical scope of
the statute. And that's anomalous, but I don't think
it's so anomalous that you wouldn't do it if you thought
that was the better way to read the statute.
That said, I do think that the best way to
read the statute is consistent with all the other
statutes as part of a jurisdictional puzzle. I mean,
all of the areas off of the shelf are governed, with the
exception of seamen under the Jones Act, primarily as a
matter of geography. So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Clement, if your
position is right, then we have a worker who most of the
time is doing work on a platform, and he will be covered
or not depending on whether the injury occurred on the
shelf or on the land. So, it's -- the other view is to
say what this person does most of the time is what
counts. Then this worker would always be covered by
OCSLA. And if you take your view, then one will be
covered by OCSLA; another one who is doing the same job
is covered by a State -- a State -- you have a variety
of State workers' compensation laws as opposed to a
uniform law governing workers of this kind.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, two responses, Justice
Ginsburg: First of all, this Court has already
confronted the objection that, well, if -- under OCSLA
workers would move in and out of coverage, and it
rejected it in the Herb's Welding case. And I don't --
I think it's common ground -- well, maybe not, but it
should be common ground that if you had a worker who was
injured on a State platform, that that would not be
covered by -- a State waters platform, that that would
not be covered by OCSLA.
And, again, that was an anomaly that this
Court confronted in Herb's welding and the Court said:
Yes, well, you know, workers are going to move in and
out of coverage, but that's what OCSLA says. That's
what OCSLA does.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's what brings me --
I'm looking at petition appendix 96, 903(a) that you
referred us to. I wasn't quite sure of your argument
with respect to this statute. This statute is a
situs-based statute.
MR. CLEMENT: Yes, and it's the Longshore
Act.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But since Congress didn't
follow this model in the -- in subsection (b) that we're
looking for and used "as a result," why doesn't that
show that Congress meant something different? I didn't
hear your argument on that point.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, my argument --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't see, in other
words, how 903 doesn't hurt you more than it helps you.
MR. CLEMENT: It helps me because 1333(b)
doesn't apply a different model. It adopts this model.
It adopts and extends the Longshoreman Act to the shelf.
See, it's a mistake to read 1333 --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it doesn't; it talks
about where the injury occurs, and that's not what --
and that's not what (b) says.
MR. CLEMENT: No, it talks about that as
part of extending the Longshore Workers' Act to the
shelf. It's important that, you know, you can't get --
I mean, 1333(b), like I said, is not a self-contained
offshore workers workers' compensation regime. What it
does is it extends the Longshore Workers' Act to the
shelf, including 903(a).
But what I'm saying is Congress recognized
that you couldn't just extend 903(a) and the rest of the
Act to the shelf without modification, because then you
come to this language that says you only get relief if
your injury occurred on the navigable waters or the
drydocks attached thereto. So, Congress in (b)(3)
changes the definition of the United States for
geographical purposes in a way that allows you to
superimpose this provision to the shelf, but instead of
reading it to say you only get a recovery if you're
injured on the navigable waters including the drydocks,
you get a recovery if you're injured on the navigable
waters, including the shelf, the drydocks, the
artificial islands, and the fixtures attached thereto.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Clement, may I go
back to -- you referred to Herb's Welding, but that was
a case -- it was a claim under the Longshore Act, not an
OCSLA claim, and the Court said it was expressing no
opinion on whether 1332(b) covered the injury.
MR. CLEMENT: That's right. Herb's Welding
is not a holding, but at the end of that opinion, the
Court confronts this argument that isn't it odd that
somebody would be moving in and out of coverage? And
the Court says that that is a product of OCSLA. And it
doesn't say it's a product of OCSLA generally; it says
particularly that it's a product of OCSLA's extension of
the Longshore Act. And I do think that this objection
about people moving in and out was answered by the Court
in Herb's Welding.
I would also say, Justice Ginsburg, the
second point I wanted to make in response to your
earlier question is I understand that it might make
policy sense to have coverage that encapsulates an
individual no matter where they work. But the problem
is -- I mean, that's not only a different model; that's
the model that Congress rejected. They thought long and
hard about having an admiralty remedy, and presumably
then the Jones Act would apply, and if you were attached
to a vessel or a platform, then you would have coverage
no matter where you went.
But that's not what they did. They
incorporated instead as their model the Longshore Act,
and the Longshore Act always had a situs requirement.
So, when Congress makes a conscious effort to deal with
this unusual geographical problem with -- and solves the
problem with the Longshore Act, which is sitting there
with a situs requirement, and doesn't adopt the Jones
Act, which has a status-only requirement, it seems very,
very peculiar to adopt instead a model that would have a
status-only test.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Congress also did not
adopt the proposal, the specific proposal to confine
OCSLA to situations in which State workers' compensation
was unavailable.
MR. CLEMENT: And I think that's -- they
rejected that with good reason, Your Honor, because you
have to remember that, at this point, they're living
with the experience that this Court ultimately resolved.
But they're living in real time with the experience of
people under the Longshore Act, which at that point, did
carve out and limit the remedy, the Federal remedy, only
when a State remedy was unavailable. And they were
watching that play out, and it was a mess. People
didn't know if they should bring a State case or a
Federal case, and at that point they were viewed as
exclusive. So, Congress had ample reasons to reject the
idea that we're going to only give a Federal remedy if a
State remedy is unavailable.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What reason did they have
to use the terminology "as a result of" instead of
simply saying that this Act applies only with regard to
injuries on the platform, which is what other statutes
did say? I mean, other statutes had a geographical
requirement. What a strange way to say it, "as a result
of operations."
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, I don't
know which other statutes you're talking about. I mean,
the other statute that most plainly has a situs
requirement is the Longshore Act, and that's precisely
what they extended to the shelf, as I've argued. Beyond
that, it's true that some of the other provisions of
this Act have slightly different wording, but I don't
think anything turns on that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Clement, you are
asking us to just ignore six words in this statute,
right? You read the statute as any injury occurring on
the outer continental shelf, when in fact the statute
says "any injury occurring as the result of operations
conducted on the outer continental shelf." And you give
a variety of arguments in your brief about what those
six words are supposed to do. They're supposed to cover
latent injuries. They're supposed to make sure that the
statute only covers things that happen in the scope of
your employment.
But your friends come back and say the
statute did all those things anyway. These six words
would serve no function under your theory.
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Kagan, first of all,
it's interesting. The only way they can say that those
functions were performed by the statute anyways is to
incorporate provisions of the Longshore Act, because
1333(b) itself doesn't take care of latent injuries or
doesn't take care of, you know, who's in the scope of
their employment. All of that is taken care of in the
Longshore Act, which is why I think the best way to read
this is incorporating the Longshore Act and its situs
requirement.
But, beyond that, I would never ask you to
make six words go away, never. Those words do play a
function, but the function they play is to make it clear
that the injury has to result of operations conducted on
the shelf for certain purposes. And that precludes an
employee accountant who's out on the shelf and injured
by something that has nothing to do with shelf
operations.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But this goes back to
Justice Ginsburg's question. She asked you how many
accountants are there on the shelf? One can't really
imagine that Congress is writing this -- this statute,
and drafting those six words in order to make sure that
an accountant who goes out to the outer continental
shelf isn't covered.
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Kagan, I would beg to
differ. And I think what you have to understand is, go
back in 1953 and when they're -- I mean, you can say
confidently that there aren't accountants on the shelf
because you have the benefit of 60 -- 60 years of
experience with -- post-1953 with what goes on, on the
shelf. Congress at this point is sort of legislating
for a brave new world, and they don't -- they're trying
to provide for all of the occasions that may come to
pass out on the shelf.
There is a great law review article that
actually provides this background, and it's written by,
of all people, Warren Christopher, the Warren
Christopher, and it's in the Stanford Law Review, and it
was written December of 1953, and it's worth a look
because it captures this idea that they're kind of, you
know, legislating for this brave new world out there,
and they don't know who's going to be out there. They
don't know if it's going to be all drill workers or if
there's going to be accountants and clerical workers out
there.
And so, I think with that context, it's not
at all odd that they would use those six words to say,
kind of the way that Congress did later in 1972 in
imposing the marine employment test for longshoremen --
it's like, look, we want to provide a longshore remedy,
but not to just anybody, any employee who might happen
to be on the shelf; we want to provide it to those
people who are essentially in the core operations that
are going on, on the shelf.
If I could reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Clement.
Mr. Palmore.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH R. PALMORE
ON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL RESPONDENT
MR. PALMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
I'd like to start off with the exchange that
Justice Kagan had with Mr. Clement about the language
that was used here in 1333(b), and I think the contrast
between the language that Congress used in 1333(b) and
the language it used in other provisions, neighboring
provisions, of 1333 is instructive.
And I'd like the point the Court to section
1333(c), which is on page 3a of the appendix to the
Government's brief. This is the provision involving the
National Labor Relations Act. And I think this shows
how Congress went about drafting when it wanted to
specify legal consequences that would flow from an
actual event that took place in a particular place. So,
Congress extends the National Labor Relations Act to
"any unfair labor practice, as defined in such Act,
occurring upon any artificial island...." And then it
lists with particularity the particular situses where
the National Labor Relations Act would apply.
If Congress had followed that model in
section 1333(b), it would be a very different statute.
It would have said, as Your Honor pointed out, with
respect to disability or death of an employee resulting
from any injury on the outer continental shelf. If
Congress wanted to additionally require -- have some
kind of operations nexus, it could have said occurring
on the outer continental shelf as the result of
operations on the outer continental shelf.
Congress didn't do either of those things in
section 1333(b), and we think that contrast is -- is
quite instructive here. It's also not the case --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Palmore --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it's a
little -- it's a little different when you're talking
about a labor practice and an activity that results in
an injury. Labor practice by its terms is going to have
applicability to a particular location. So, you would
expect them to use that type of language. It doesn't
carry the same negative implication you're suggesting
under 1333(b).
MR. PALMORE: Well, I think that --
Mr. Chief Justice, that I think there's a contrast
between 1333(b) and 1333(c) in terms of the specificity
with which Congress provided for where a particular
event would happen. There's no question that 1333(b)
has a situs requirement, but it's a situs of operations
requirement.
So, when you're talking about a situs of
operations, you're talking about a geographic zone where
operations take place. It makes sense that Congress
would have used this phrase "on the outer continental
shelf." Now, the outer continental shelf itself is a
defined term in the statutes. In 1331(a), it applies
only to the subsoil and seabed. It doesn't include
artificial installations put on top. So, we're talking
about a general zone, a general geographic zone where
the operations take place. And then Congress wanted to
provide benefits for injuries that result from those
operations.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose the facts of this
case were changed a little bit so that the Respondent,
instead of spending 98 percent of his time on an oil rig
doing things that he did there, actually spent only 20
percent of his time there, and he spent 80 percent of
his time on land doing what he was supposed to be doing
at the time of the accident. This particular operation
produced so much scrap metal, he had to spend 80 percent
of his time going around with a forklift gathering it
up. Now, would this case come out the same way then?
MR. PALMORE: We don't think so, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Then how does that -- I
don't see how you get this result out of the statutory
language, because the causal connection between the
operations on the shelf and the accident are precisely
the same in the two situations. Whether he spends 98
percent of his time on the rig or 2 percent of his time
on the rig, that makes no difference whatsoever in the
causal relationship.
MR. PALMORE: Because we think it's a
mistake in the context of a workers' compensation scheme
to look at this as kind of a snapshot in time. We think
that when you're talking about a workers' compensation
scheme, the kind of causation that is relevant is the
causation caused by the employment relationship itself.
So, if someone's spending, like Mr. Valladolid --
spending 98 percent of his time on the shelf, he's
uniquely exposed to the hazards of work in that
dangerous environment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The trouble with that is
that's not what it says. It says "as a result of
operations."
MR. PALMORE: And we think that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I don't -- you know, I
would think he doesn't even have to be an employee, does
he?
MR. PALMORE: He does have to be an
employee. That's a -- only employees are entitled to
benefits. But I think the definition of "employee" or
really the related definition of "employer" is
instructive on this question. If you look at the
definition of an employer in 1333(b)(2) -- this is on
page 3a of the Government appendix -- says "the term
'employer' means 'an employer any of whose employees are
employed in such operations.'" It's somewhat of a
circular definition. But there's a focus here on
employees who are engaged in such operations. Those are
employees like --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Palmore, you're asking
us to look at the relationship between the employment
and the shelf activities, and the statute asks us to
look at the relationship between the injury and the
shelf activities. And those may be two different things
and seemingly are two different things in the
hypothetical that Justice Alito gave you.
MR. PALMORE: And the Ninth Circuit viewed
-- viewed injury in the way that Your Honor and Justice
Alito are suggesting. And I would -- and that's our
backup position. I think both sides here have backup
positions. I would submit that the backup positions are
where -- -
JUSTICE KAGAN: The backup positions may be
better than the primary positions in this case, you
know?
MR. PALMORE: I think the backup positions
really also differ with each other only in a matter of
degree, not in --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is the backup position
that's so much better here? What is it?
(Laughter.)
MR. PALMORE: Well, I don't -- to be clear,
we don't think it's better. We think that the category
of off-shelf injuries that should be covered are those
that are suffered by workers who spend a substantial
amount of time on the shelf. The backup position is
the -- in our view, is the Ninth Circuit position, which
is the substantial connection between the injury and
operations on the shelf. It doesn't strike me as that
different from Mr. Clement's backup position.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the trouble is that I
have no idea what that means. Now, they have the
example of an accountant on land who spends all of his
time doing accounting work for the -- for the oil rig.
Why isn't there a substantial connection there? Were it
not for the operations on the oil rig, this guy would be
out of work or he'd be doing something completely
different. I don't understand that.
MR. PALMORE: Well, that's the -- that would
be an expansive but-for test of the kind that at least
some language in the Third Circuit's opinion in Curtis
would support. We think that that sweeps too broadly.
We think a proximate cause, however, sweeps too
narrowly, and Justice Scalia's exchange with Mr. Clement
highlighted this. Proximate cause is a --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: A substantial nexus is
just right?
MR. PALMORE: We think substantial --
substantial nexus, substantial connection. We think,
though, that it would be a mistake to look at only the
snapshot in time. And there is some language in the
Ninth Circuit decision which -- which might suggest
that. We think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you accept your
adversary's position that whatever causal -- you have
to, given your status test. Where are you drawing your
status test from? Meaning, obviously it's not from the
language.
MR. PALMORE: Well, I think I would submit
that it is from the language, Justice Sotomayor, because
we think that the language has to be understood in the
context of workers' compensation. This is not a
tort-based fault regime. This is a workers'
compensation scheme. Workers' compensation schemes are
based on the relationship between employer and employee,
and they cover injuries that arise out of and in the
course of employment. So, the kind of causation that
matters in a workers' compensation scheme is the -- is
the causation that flows from the worker relationship
itself, the workplace relationship itself.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're not -- I would
have just thought you would have taken it out of (b)
subdivision (2), the term "employer," almost the
obverse, means an employer -- means an employer any of
whose employees are employed in such operations.
MR. PALMORE: Thank you, Justice Sotomayor.
I think that is the second point. I think that textual
provision provides support for the fact that Congress
was particularly focused on those employees who were
uniquely exposed to the hazards of work on the shelf.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if -- but what
if that exposure is not pertinent to what they're doing?
Let's take the same individual, 98 percent of the time
on the rig and 2 percent on land. An emergency comes
up. They need a new part, and they say: Here, go --
you know, go drive to Reno where they have a new part
and bring it back. And he skids off the road and is
injured. Is he really covered by the Offshore Act?
MR. PALMORE: We think he is because that is
a worker who is uniquely exposed to those hazards
offshore, and he shouldn't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, so, he's
subject -- he's injured by, you know, a hazard on the
road to Reno. He's -- I don't know how many miles that
is from the offshore, and yet he's still covered by the
Offshore Act?
MR. PALMORE: Yes, Your Honor, because we
think that the -- that -- and here the contrast with the
underlying Longshore Act is important, and Justice
Kennedy's questions of Justice -- of Mr. Clement
highlighted this, because it's quite an unusual thing
for a workers' compensation statute to have a
situs-of-injury requirement. The Longshore Act is the
sole example of which I'm aware, and it has it for
historical reasons based on this Court's decision in
Jensen.
And it has a provision that's quoted on page
19 of the Government brief, that provides coverage for
disability or death, but only if the disability or death
result from an injury occurring upon the navigable
waters. That was clearly in front of Congress at the
time that it adopted OCSLA, because it was incorporating
that statute and applying it in the outer continental
shelf context. And it's quite telling that Congress did
not use that but-only-if formulation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but --but Mr. Clement
says that -- and we can argue about whether the language
does it or not, but the system he comes up with, he
says, creates a very sensible division. You're either
under the Longshore Act or you're under this Act. And
-- whereas, in your situation, you can be under both,
can't you?
MR. PALMORE: Yes, in some situations.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why does that make
any sense?
MR. PALMORE: Because the kind of certainty
-- we think our test is actually much easier to
administer and provides greater predictability in this
sense --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which one prevails when
they both apply? Are there any differences between the
two?
MR. PALMORE: Well, there's -- Congress
contemplated, expressly contemplated, that there would
be overlapping coverage and adopted a provision in
903(e) of the Longshore Act to provide for offsetting
payments when there is overlap. So, overlap is a fact
of life in this area.
JUSTICE BREYER: I think the question is, is
there any difference between the two?
MR. PALMORE: Well, in this case the Federal
benefits were more generous than the State benefits.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why wouldn't they
have been -- I mean, as I understand it, if a person of
a certain set -- and it's the same set in both,
virtually, the same set of people -- where they're
injured on navigable waters or piers and docks and so
forth, it's the Longshore Act. And if you're on the
platform, it's this Act, so far. And the benefits are
the same.
MR. PALMORE: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, the only thing
that extending this does, I think he says, is imagine a
person who worked on a platform goes to get some
platform bits repaired miles from the sea. Now, that
person would not be covered by Longshore Act, would he?
MR. PALMORE: Would not.
JUSTICE BREYER: No. And he would be
covered by this, if they're right, but not if Clement is
right.
MR. PALMORE: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, he's saying what
point was there for Congress to do that?
MR. PALMORE: Because we thought that
Congress intended this to function in the way that other
workers' compensation schemes function, both at the time
that OCSLA was adopted and today, which is that the
coverage provides comprehensive benefits from the start
of the workday to the end of the workday.
JUSTICE BREYER: Let me give you an example.
It might help. A longshoreman is working on a dock.
Someone tells him: There is a winch here that's broken;
take it to the plant to have it repaired, which is
100 miles inland. He does it, and he's hurt at the
plant. He is not covered, correct?
MR. PALMORE: Under the Longshore Act?
JUSTICE BREYER: Correct. Yes, that's
right. So, he's not covered.
MR. PALMORE: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: But if the same thing
happens on the platform, under your theory he is
covered. Now, your opponent is asking a reasonable
question. That seems to be about the only difference
that he can think of, whether it's the one Act or the
other, and why would Congress have done that? That's
his question, and I'd like to hear the answer.
MR. PALMORE: Because in that situation,
Justice Breyer, the Longshore Act's strict
situs-of-injury requirement is the exception, not the
rule. That is unusual and really unprecedented in
imposing a situs-of-injury requirement in the context of
a workers' compensation scheme. At the time of OCSLA --
at the time OCSLA was adopted in 1953, States had nearly
uniformly moved away from the tort theory of workers'
compensation coverage that would apply benefits --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, your answer is
basically there are many statutes like this, they all
have some kind of OCSLA-type requirement, it's the
Longshore Act that was rather stingy, and we don't know
why.
MR. PALMORE: No, we do know why.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why?
MR. PALMORE: It was stingy for historical
reasons --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because of the workmen's
compensation?
MR. PALMORE: It was based on this Court's
decision in Jensen, and there's a whole long and
tortured history there, and that explains why Congress
did that.
But when Congress took the unusual step of
imposing a situs-of-injury requirement in the context of
a workers' compensation scheme, it did so in express
terms with this "but-only-if" phrase.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would the -- would
worker who went to the factory be covered by State
workmen's comp?
MR. PALMORE: Yes, just like the worker on a
fixed platform on the outer Continental Shelf would also
be covered by State workers' comp. Private Respondent
cites the Bobbitt case from California that says
California workers' comp doesn't have a location
requirement --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry; I don't
understand the answer. So, he's covered by both?
MR. PALMORE: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh.
MR. PALMORE: Overlap -- a certain degree of
overlap is a fact of life in this area. Section 903(e)
accounts for that by allowing for offsetting payment, so
there's never going to be double recovery. And 903(e)
really just endorsed a historical practice of offsetting
payments that was discussed by this Court in the Calbeck
case. So that there has always been some degree of
overlapping coverage.
At the time of -- OCSLA was adopted in
1953 -- this Court in Davis had recognized that even
under the Longshore Act itself there was a twilight zone
of overlapping coverage. So --
JUSTICE SCALIA: When you're covered by both
the Longshore Act and State workmens' comp, can you
proceed under either one?
MR. PALMORE: You -- you might be able to
proceed under either one if you're covered under either
one, but what is quite, Justice Scalia, is you can't
collect --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can't get --
MR. PALMORE: -- under either one, or if you
do, you -- there are going to be contingent offsets.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you think you can
proceed under the State law if you choose.
MR. PALMORE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does -- do we owe -- do
the courts give some deference to the director's
position?
MR. PALMORE: May I answer, Mr. Chief
Justice?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Please.
MR. PALMORE: Yes. In this Court's decision
in Rambo, the Court said that the director's
interpretation of the statute is entitled to Skidmore
deference.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Frederick.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK
ON BEHALF OF THE PRIVATE RESPONDENT
MR. FREDERICK: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
I'd like to shift some focus to what would
have happened if Mr. Valladolid had worked on a floating
platform instead of a fixed, because the law is clear
that if the platform was floating, he would be a Jones
Act seaman, and under this Court's cases, if he were
injured on land, he would have a Jones Act remedy. So,
the only anomaly here is that he happened to be working
on a fixed platform 98 percent of the time. And the
question is whether the permissive workers' compensation
benefits provided under OCSLA carry with him when he
happens to be injured on land as a result of the shelf
operations.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think that's an
anomaly. I mean, you know, if it's a floating platform,
it's a vessel. The difference between a vessel and a
dock. Is it an anomaly that you're covered under the
Longshore Act if you're injured on a dock, which is
fixed, but you are not -- you're covered under the Jones
Act instead if you're on a vessel, which is not fixed?
MR. FREDERICK: Your question, Justice
Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't seem to me
like an anomaly at all.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, let me answer your
question this way, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How many floating platforms
are there, anyway?
MR. FREDERICK: There are a number of
floating platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. They're
operating on the outer continental shelf as well as on
the Western Pacific --
JUSTICE SCALIA:
Jones Act?
MR. FREDERICK:
JUSTICE SCALIA:
vessels.
MR. FREDERICK:
get a Jones Act remedy if they happen to be injured on
land. So, Mr. Chief Justice, under your hypothetical,
if the Jones Act seaman is driving to Reno and there's
an accident, he's covered under the Jones Act and gets
to have a Jones Act remedy, notwithstanding that the
injury has nothing to do with his service on the vessel
itself.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're -- you are not
proposing to eliminate that anomaly?
MR. FREDERICK: No, what I'm saying is that
the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying wherever you
are injured, so long as you're on a platform,
you're covered. I don't think so.
MR. FREDERICK: If the work is substantially
related and the causal connection goes to the employment
relationship, to the operations, the worker is covered
under OCSLA.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, you still have an
anomaly.
MR. FREDERICK: There is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sometimes it will be
covered; sometimes it won't be covered.
MR. FREDERICK: It is, to be sure, a more
comfortable fit to the actual language of the statute
than imposing and superimposing a situs-of-injury
requirement, which is nowhere to be found in section
1333(b).
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there any injury on
land in the course of employment that would not be
covered by OCSLA where we have a worker of this kind
that -- who spends 98 percent of his time on the outer
continental shelf -- the injury, however, is on land?
Is there any case where such a worker who predominantly
works on the outer continental shelf would not be
covered by OCSLA in your view?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, if the work is arising
out of the course and scope of employment, which is the
natural way that these workers' compensation regimes
work, and it is related to the shelf operations, our
submission is, yes, he is covered under OCSLA.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, then what you're
really saying is -- it's not your test, but really the
Government's saying we look to see, is this person
dominantly working on the outer continental shelf?
MR. FREDERICK: That -- that's correct,
Justice Ginsburg. It's the easiest to administer test,
too, because the way workers' compensation insurance
works, the employer will -- based on the payroll of the
workers who are out on the shelf and its overall
payroll, will pay workers' compensation premiums, and
under the Department of Labor regulations, it will add
an endorsement for those workers whose status it
controls, would be covered under OCSLA and thereby get
the higher Federal benefit.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, if you work only 20
percent of your time for this -- this drilling company
on -- on the -- on the platform, but it so happens that
you are injured on the platform, you know, a bolt comes
off and strikes you, you're not covered?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, our submission would
be he would be covered because he's directly injured as
a result of the operations on the shelf. It's a
two-factor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then -- then you're
not applying the -- the employment test. I mean, you
either are or you are not.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, that person is going
to be covered under our submission because it's a
two-part inquiry. You look at the nature of the
relationship, and you look at the nature of how the
injury came about. And under those circumstances we
agree with the Government, that if somebody is -- if an
employee is out on the platform and is injured as a
result of operations, that person is covered.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Heads, I win; tails, you
lose, right? We -- we have a situs-of-the-injury test
when you have less than your -- a majority of your work
on the platform, but we don't have a situs test when the
majority is on the platform.
MR. FREDERICK: I would submit that the
incongruity --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How do you get that out of
this statute?
MR. FREDERICK: It's even greater under
their hypothetical with the helicopter worker, because
they want to get the person who's riding in the
helicopter out to the shelf covered under the Longshore
Act, and yet that flies directly in the face of this
Court's holding in Herb's Welding, that when he's on the
fixed platform, he doesn't get longshore benefits. And
so, here under their hypothetical --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was it the Longshore Act?
I thought -- I thought it was the Jones Act that they
were covered in the helicopter.
MR. FREDERICK: No. Under his submission --
his submission is that when they fly out in a helicopter
and they crash in the water, they get longshore
benefits. But if they actually made it to the platform,
under this Court's holding in Herb's Welding they would
not get longshore benefits --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I mean, both
positions --
MR. FREDERICK: -- if they were in State
territorial waters.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Both positions, Mr.
Frederick, are vulnerable to particular hypotheticals.
You have imprecision on what it means to spend most of
your time on the -- on the shelf, and they have their
own problems. And what do you do with somebody who's --
3 months he's on the shelf, and then 3 months he's back
-- back on land 3 months? Does it depend when the
injury occurs, whether it's when he's on the land part
of his job or on the shelf part?
MR. FREDERICK: The way this Court handled
that under in seaman context under Chandris was to look
at the totality of the circumstances of the worker's
employment, and that seems to be --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's -- I've
given you all the totality. He's working for 3 months,
and then he's -- you know, it's seasonal or something,
and 3 months he's on -- on the land. That is the
totality of the circumstances.
MR. FREDERICK: He would be covered.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why?
MR. FREDERICK: Because he's the kind of
person that Congress wanted to provide coverage to under
Federal worker -- remind -- remember, in 1950 --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where -- how do you
know it's the kind of person? I thought your line was
whether or not he spends most of his time on the shelf
or most of his time somewhere else.
MR. FREDERICK: Our test actually is
substantial work. We don't disagree with the
Government's adoption of a Chandris 30 percent line.
That seems appropriate in light of the fact that many of
these workers come on for 2 weeks, are off for 2 weeks.
They're working 12-hour shifts while they're out on the
rig. It seems appropriate that the coverage should go
with them when they are --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thirty percent is
the line?
MR. FREDERICK: That's what the Government
-- I have no brief to defend, Mr. Chief Justice, in
terms of where that line is, because my -- my client's
husband --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know, but
we'd like to have a test that we apply to your
situation, and it's nice to know -- maybe 30 percent, I
guess, is as good as any.
MR. FREDERICK: The point that Congress was
trying to get at -- and these are platforms that were
covered by State workers' compensation in 1953 -- was to
extend the more generous Federal benefits to encourage
an industry that was a nascent industry to develop the
resources of the outer continental shelf, to provide
uniformity, to provide benefits to the workers who were
exposed to the perils that were out on the platform.
And so, it makes sense, we submit, that when those
workers who are -- who are subjected to those
circumstances have the same Federal benefits. And there
are substantial benefits.
My client, for instance, got a one-time
lump-sum payment of $42,000 for the death of her
husband, as opposed to the Federal benefits that would
be approximately $466 per week during the remainder of
her period as a widow. And the State benefits would be
credited against any Federal benefits that she would be
getting in the future. But it's -- it is a substantial
dimension to the life of a worker out on the shelf.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, suppose, Mr. Frederick,
that we find that we can't find your status test in the
language of the statute and that what this statute seems
to give us is, instead, a causal test and that the cause
is whether operations on the outer continental shelf
caused the injury in question. So, what's your best
argument for how operations on the shelf caused the
injury in this case?
MR. FREDERICK: The scrap metal that Mr.
Valladolid was charged with moving at the time of his
the death was very likely the same scrap metal that he
personally had taken off the shelf, or someone in his
position would have taken off the shelf. And to Justice
Kennedy's point, the equipment is heavy, dangerous,
difficult equipment. Just the fact that it is moved off
the shelf for a cleaning, scrap, for removal, et cetera,
is an immaterial difference.
In their reply brief, they concede that an
oil spill worker who's cleaning up this oil spill from
an offshore event is going to be covered under a -- what
they call a proximate cause standard -- under any kind
of substantial connection proximate cause. Proximate
cause is a legal policy that determines how you want to
limit the scope of the injuries that would be covered.
In a workers' compensation scheme,
Justice Scalia, you were completely right it makes no
sense. And so, if you adopt some kind of substantial
connection, it has to be very loosely related. As the
Court in the FELA context last term held in CSX v.
McBride, where you have a negligence standard, it makes
even more sense to have a very relaxed standard of
causation under workers' compensation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume that the Act would
also apply under your analysis to a -- an independent
contractor, a trucker, who carries this heavy -- this
heavy steel to the place where this worker worked on it,
right?
MR. FREDERICK: I don't think so.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --
MR. FREDERICK: You have to be an employee.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- but he would not have
been carrying the steel had it not been for the -- for
the operations on the shelf.
MR. FREDERICK: It has to be an employee.
If -- if your hypothetical is the independent contractor
on land, it has to be an employee in order to be
covered. And that person doesn't qualify, which creates
another set of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I see. I see.
MR. FREDERICK: -- difficult lines to draw
under the Longshore Act, where you also have to be an
employee, and independent contractors are not covered --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He would be covered if --
if -- he were employed by the -- by the firm that
operates the platform, right?
MR. FREDERICK: If you could give me the
rest of the facts of your hypothetical, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well -- it's just the guy
that drives the truck that takes the steel to the place
where your client worked on it.
MR. FREDERICK: Not covered, because that
person is not directly substantially working on shelf
operations --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Unless he spent 30
percent of his time on the shelf. Then he's covered.
MR. FREDERICK: Yes. Because those
workers -- those workers -- I think it's hard to imagine
the kinds of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it 30 percent of his
time over his career or that month or in a year?
MR. FREDERICK: This Court's articulation of
that standard, Justice Kennedy, in the Chandris test has
been the subject of litigation in the lower courts, and
my understanding is that the courts have kind of worked
out the various factors and standards that go into the
nature of the employment standard --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You -- you're talking
about the Chandris standard that the seaman's
relationship to the vessel must be substantial in nature
and duration --
MR. FREDERICK: Correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that's a kind of a
vague -- what's substantial? It's the same problem we
have here. What is the --
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. And the
nature -- you know, if I could -- I'm sorry, did you
want --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. So, how have courts
worked this out? What is a substantial relation to the
vessel?
MR. FREDERICK: As I understand the case
law, Justice Ginsburg, there are a range of factors that
go into the nature of the sea workers' relationship to
the vessel, and they go to -- they go to duration, they
go to the performance of duties in the completion of the
mission of the vessel and the like. And there are a
range of standards. Obviously, the facts of each crew
member is difficult to unpack in a hypothetical at this
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's a real
-- obviously, it's a real mishmash, and maybe that's
what we're -- we're stuck with. How does this work as a
practical matter? I assume the -- the companies get
insurance to cover their risks here.
MR. FREDERICK: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Who decides -- I
mean, the insurance company will underwrite how many
people spend what percentage of time where?
MR. FREDERICK: And as a practical matter,
Mr. Chief Justice -- and I don't represent the insurance
company here -- but the way I understand that it works
is that, on an annual or a periodic basis, the company
and the insurance company get together through some
auditing process where there's verification of the
workers who are OCSLA workers and thereby get the
longshore benefits, and the company and the insurance
company work that out to determine either numbers or
particular individuals or the like.
And so, here what we're talking about is a
situation where the employer is not liable for the
damage. It's an insured risk, and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No -- well, they
have to pay higher insurance rates. To say they're not
liable for it I think is a real --
MR. FREDERICK: It's a different form of
liability, and it's one that based on the way workers'
compensation traditionally is developed -- and I would
direct the Court to the opening chapters of Larson's
monumental treatise on workers' compensation, where he
basically says if this is a social compact in which the
employer doesn't have to face liability for personal
injuries in tort but gets insurance, and the premiums
are then passed on to the consuming public of that
particular entity's goods.
JUSTICE BREYER: Does it carry over who's an
employee from the Longshoreman Act? Which defines an
employee as a maritime worker, and then defines that and
has exceptions and so forth, and this has a couple more.
That's who the employee is; is that right?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, under this statute,
no; (b)(2), as Justice Sotomayor referenced, it is -- it
is an employer, some of whose employees are engaged in,
quote, "such operations." And Mr. Valladolid was
exactly the kind of person who was engaged in such
operations.
So, our submission, Justice Breyer, is that
that is the kind of person that Congress contemplated
when it was focusing on the work force that would be
engaged in development of the outer continental shelf.
If the Court has --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you -- I
don't mean to get back to it all the time, but it's not
-- you have to say that Congress contemplated the person
who spent 30 percent of his time on the outer
continental shelf. In terms of us coming up with a
test. Maybe your client is an easy case, where it's 98
percent. But the test you want us to adopt covers the
person who spends 70 percent of his time on land.
MR. FREDERICK: Mr. Chief Justice, if I
could put it this way, the pushback for the but-for test
in its broadest sense is that there isn't a natural kind
of a way of confining some restriction to it. And so,
if you look at the statute in terms of what it naturally
must have meant by Congress, there is a natural limit,
and it is not just complete but-for causation, but there
are an effort -- there is an effort to try to restrict
the scope of the compensation.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Clement, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
A few points in rebuttal. First of all,
Justice Kennedy, you asked about deference, and I think
before you give any deference to the Government's
position, you should look at the other Government's
position, which is to say the position that the
Government took in its brief to this Court in Pickett v.
Petroleum Helicopters in 2002.
They have a completely different position
now, and they've never explained the difference other
than to say what they thought was plausible then they
now find persuasive now. That's not enough for
deference. And in that brief, they took a position very
similar to ours. There has to be status plus situs,
albeit a slightly different situs, but otherwise it's on
all fours with our position.
Second of all, the Government comes up here
and says that the longshore remedy is an outlier among
workers' compensation remedies because it's the only one
with a situs. Well, the problem with that is of all the
workers' compensation provisions that Congress could
have extended to the outer continental shelf, it picked
the Longshore Act with that situs requirement.
And the Government also says, well, you
know, the reason that the Longshore Act had a situs
requirement was because of Jensen, and this Court's
decision in Jensen created a problem about whether State
workers' comp law could go to the navigable waters.
Well, that's the exact same backdrop against
which Congress is passing OCSLA. It doesn't know that
State workers' compensation law can go to the outer
continental shelf. Jensen is still good law. Jensen
tells Congress that it can't extend -- States can't
extend their laws to the navigable waters. What
makes --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But why -- why doesn't
Congress know? Because I think States overwhelmingly
would include outer continental shelf workers in their
compensation scheme.
MR. CLEMENT: Oh, no, Justice Ginsburg.
What States overwhelming did is say a worker could be
covered in a different State. But covering them on the
outer continental shelf was not something that was well
established.
And, indeed, Congress specifically heard
testimony that questioned the ability of either States
to get their workers' comp law there directly and also
heard that there might be constitutional problems,
because of the Knickerbocker Ice case, of Congress
extending the State law there. So, that's why they
settled on this remedy of taking this Longshore Act that
solved the Jensen problem on the navigable waters and
solved the same problem for the outer continental shelf.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It would make sense to
use the Longshore Act because they wanted to have the
same level of compensation.
MR. CLEMENT: As other alternatives like the
Jones Act?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No. No, no. They wanted
the OCSLA worker to have the same benefits as the
longshore worker.
MR. CLEMENT: Sure, when they were on the
shelf. But they were solving the exact same kind of
jurisdictional problem they solved with the Longshore
Act with the shelf -- with the statute.
Justice Sotomayor, I don't think you can
read too much into (b)(2). All (b)(2) is doing is
modifying the same definition for the longshores.
You're an employer if you employ a longshoreman or a
longshore worker. So, they're just updating this for
purposes of extending a longshore remedy to the shelf;
(b)(3) does the same thing, and it modifies the situs
and creates a situs that makes sense for the shelf: the
navigable waters, drydocks, the shelf, artificial
islands, and everything attached thereto.
Mr. Chief Justice, you talked about the
imprecision of their test. It's worse than that. It's
imprecision without any text. At least in the Jones
Act, you have the seamen and you have some other textual
clues as to where you draw these limits. Here there's
nothing in the statute that in any way suggests a
status-based test. So, you would be completely
unmoored, if you will.
The last point I would make is this: The
answer to the causation test is really -- the kind of
the lie to the other side's position is what they say
when they're dealing with somebody who's not a 98
percenter but is a 2 percenter. When that person goes
out on the shelf, when are they covered? Well, when the
injuries operating on the shelf cause them a direct
injury on the shelf. At that point, even the Government
resorts to a situs-based test.
Well, here's the problem: That status-based
test, it's in the Jones Act; it's not in OCSLA. And
even when you recognize that and you look at what's left
of the case, what's left of the case is either our
approach that essentially incorporates the Longshore Act
through (b)(3) or a tight nexus test that would require
a geographical focus and give -- give force to the words
"conducted on the shelf."
This person was injured by operations for
the purpose of exploring the shelf at some level, but he
sure wasn't injured by operations conducted on the shelf
for those purposes. He was injured by operations on dry
land. And under those circumstances, the remedy lies
with the State workers' comp law, not with OCSLA.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m. the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
61:17 activities 12:13 anomalies 4:6 argument 1:13 back 8:5,6,9
29:18 Act's 38:23 42:19 43:1,24 19:17 20:1,2 background
43:19 add 9:20,21 44:10 21:15 26:25 26:2
28:2 38:21 39:6 arguments 31:20,20,21,23
32:18 10:12 43:2 60:17 arising 45:2 balance 26:21
25:11,19 adjacent 13:17 anybody 26:17 articulation base 8:10
13:22,23 anyway 24:14 53:6 baseball 14:18
36:13 45:12 anyways 24:18 13:12 14:4 33:25 35:15
adopt 22:15,17 appendix 13:5 asked 17:23 basically 39:7
56:17 31:4 57:10 basis 54:22
5:8,8 adopted 10:24 applicability asking 24:3 batter 14:18
11:10,11 35:22 36:20 28:14 31:10 38:17 beachcombers
12:2,3 38:2 39:3 applied 6:4 asks 31:12 6:10
13:22 40:21 17:10 aspect 17:4 beg 25:16
17:13,17 adoption 48:25 applies 5:8 assessing 17:23 behalf 2:4,7,10
19:21 adopts 20:6,7 11:25 16:19 Assistant 1:18 2:13 3:8 27:1
adversary 5:17 23:14 29:5 assume 51:18 42:1 57:7
22:6 adversary's apply 4:14 12:2 54:13 benefit 25:20
33:15 15:24 17:18,23 attached 14:4 45:20
agree 10:6 46:13 18:2 20:6 22:6 20:24 21:7 benefits 3:18
AL 1:4,7 27:21 36:16 22:6 60:7 29:10 30:25
albeit 57:22 39:5 49:13 attachments 37:2,2,9 38:3
35:6,9 Alito 5:10,21 51:19 12:21 13:12 39:5 42:13
36:5,5 7:19 29:12,23 applying 11:24 auditing 54:24 47:6,14,16
37:8,9 31:16,19 32:16 35:23 46:6 automatic 17:11 49:19,22 50:1
38:11,19 allowing 40:15 approach 61:4 17:25 50:2,5,7,8 55:1
40:23 allows 21:1 appropriate aware 35:14 59:17
42:8,9,20 alluding 14:16 49:1,4 a.m 1:14 3:2 best 4:23 6:11
43:11,16 alternatives approximately 61:16 11:13 18:7
59:14 50:6 24:23 50:16
51:18
32:5,8 carry 28:16 changes 20:25 10:8,11 11:4,8 35:12 38:1
carrying 52:2 charged 50:20 14:12,24 15:3 42:12 45:4,13
44:24 50:18 49:6,9,12 35:10 36:1 57:16 60:14
59:6 61:3,3,15 54:20 55:7 58:22 59:14,19 complicated 8:8
61:16 56:11,19 57:4 Clement's 32:15 11:15 13:13
cases 42:8 57:8 60:8 clerical 26:10 comprehensive
56:6 category 32:8 61:14 client 50:3 52:20 38:3
27:12 30:5 33:15 Christopher client's 49:10 conducted 5:13
49:9 44:6 50:14 26:3,4 clues 60:12 6:2,9 7:21 8:24
57:14,20 causation 5:12 Circuit 3:19 collect 41:6 9:8,12 24:7
5:23,24 6:3 31:17 32:12 24:13 25:24 confidently
cause 15:22 16:6 5:9 15:24 comfortable 19:11
32:25 16:17,24 17:2 50:1 61:12 coming 14:20 Congress 4:13
17:6,10,13,16 cite 11:9 15:13 56:15 6:24 7:9 10:22
39:24 33:3,5 50:14 claim 4:7 5:4 19:5,6 19:22,25 20:19
60:22 21:10,11 comp 40:2,5,7 20:24 22:4,12
50:16,17 clear 9:23 25:3 compact 55:15 27:7,14,17,22
40:13 clearly 5:12 7:18 company 45:22 35:21,24 36:18
certainty 36:11 Clement 1:16 55:1,2 39:19,21 48:17
48:6,25 53:7 5:21 6:11,17 20:16 22:21 58:15,19 59:2
count 3:23,25 47:10 48:14 57:20 difficult 8:16
32:13,20 4:10 52:7,12,13,21 defined 27:18 54:8
44:6 51:7 counts 18:19 52:25 58:24 29:5 dimension 50:10
couple 15:10 60:21 defines 12:19,20 direct 3:20 4:6,8
Court 1:1,13 crash 4:18 47:13 13:8 15:1 directly 4:5,24
21:11,15,17,21 58:9 59:25 46:2 47:4
40:18,22 41:20 52:7 60:5 12:14 director's 41:14
56:7 51:14 55:13 credence 15:1 40:13,19 disability 27:25
56:10 57:14 credited 50:8 Department 35:19,19
33:22 53:8,9,23 CSX 51:14 depend 48:2 48:24
39:1,22 Court's 5:3 curious 5:10 depending discussed 40:18
51:14 35:15 39:17 Curtis 33:1 18:16 division 36:4
4:12 5:14 47:5,15 53:6 D determination 42:20
9:3 58:8 D 1:16 2:3,12 4:7 docks 37:7
25:14 cover 12:4 24:9 3:1,7 57:6 determine 55:2 DOHSA 5:4
29:3,4 34:1 54:14 damage 55:6 determines 51:8 doing 6:15 15:5
40:4 coverage 3:20 dangerous determining 18:15,21 29:15
44:23,25 4:9 8:12,13 30:15 50:24 18:3 29:17,17 32:19
49:21 19:3,13 21:16 DAVID 1:21 2:9 develop 49:20 32:22 34:17
56:9,15 22:1,7 35:18 41:25 developed 55:12 59:24
36:20 38:3 Davis 40:22 developing 9:3 dominantly
39:5 40:20,24 deal 22:12 development 45:10
52:5 4:20,24 9:5,15 death 27:25 difference 15:14 drafting 25:13
19:8,9 21:12 50:21 38:18 42:18 draw 52:10
35:8 34:23 35:5 decide 6:4 differences drawing 33:16
41:4 42:19,21 41:19 58:9 22:3 23:25 drives 52:19
45:11 43:10,19 44:4 defect 11:15 27:23 28:11 driving 43:18
54:15 44:7,13,13,21 defend 49:9 31:14,15 32:15 dry 3:13,14,15
61:14 46:2,9,15 47:3 41:22 57:10,11 57:16,22 58:24 drydocks 12:6
60:6 30:11 31:11 expansive 32:25 Federal 1:20 2:7 42:2,23 43:2,6
45:3 46:6 48:8 experience 23:1 23:8,10 27:1 44:5,11,14
22:1 explains 39:19 50:1,5,8 47:19,22 48:5
12:15 41:21 49:19 58:15,16 fit 44:15 full 6:25
environment 13:2 23:23 42:6,11,21,22 24:15 25:3,3
46:7 equipment 8:5 extending 4:12 fixing 8:19 functions 24:18
59:3 61:3 50:24,25 12:17 20:13 fixtures 21:7 funny 17:1
essentially 13:8 extends 5:7 20:7 42:17 43:4,7
34:10 event 27:16 extracting 9:8 focus 31:7 42:4 general 1:19
28:22 51:5 61:6 29:8,8
26:17 12:10 face 13:14 47:4 34:14 generous 37:2
30:21,24 exact 58:11 55:16 focusing 56:8 49:19
33:25 59:20 facility 4:8 follow 4:16 geographic 29:1
51:25 exactly 11:5 fact 7:21 24:5 19:23 29:8
14:12 56:4 34:13 36:22 followed 27:22 geographical
example 4:5 6:7 40:14 49:1 force 56:8 61:6 12:20,24,25
8:4 12:12 32:18 35:14 factors 53:10 29:20 22:13 23:16
31:5,8,9 38:5 54:2 form 55:10 61:6
56:2 examples 14:20 factory 40:1 formulation geography
33:25 38:24 52:17 54:7 forth 37:8 55:23 18:12
45:14 exceptions factual 15:5 fortuitous 15:23 getting 50:9
56:2 55:23 faithfully 6:3 found 44:17 Ginsburg 6:20
exchange 27:4 far 3:20 4:8 37:9 fours 57:23 6:22 7:8 10:1
26:15 exclusive 23:9 favor 6:4 2:9 41:24,25 21:8,23 22:19
45:7,12 ground 19:5,6 Honor 6:12 8:13 61:4 55:1,8,17
guess 49:15 8:21 9:22 14:8 incorporating insured 55:6
58:18,22 guidance 17:14 22:24 27:24 24:24 35:22 intended 37:25
Gulf 43:7 29:22 31:18 independent interesting
hurt 20:4 38:9 individual 22:2 interpretation
23:10 handled 48:5 50:5 individuals 55:3 invitation 16:1
38:5 happen 24:11 hypothetical industry 49:20 involving 27:12
50:14 26:17 28:22 8:23 9:5 15:12 49:20 island 27:19
57:11 43:16 31:16 43:17 injured 3:13,14 islands 12:21
happened 42:5 47:1,7 52:5,17 7:16 8:11,20 13:12 14:4
happens 38:16 hypotheticals 21:5 25:6 isolation 12:23
21:8 hazard 35:3 I 42:20 43:16 J
34:20 hazards 30:14 Ice 59:6 44:3 45:24 Jensen 35:16
49:4 34:15,25 idea 23:10 26:6 46:2,14 61:8 39:18 58:8,9
54:3,4,4 Heads 46:16 32:17 61:10,11 58:14,14 59:9
58:10,13 hear 3:3 20:1 ignore 24:3 injuries 6:1 9:7 job 18:21 48:4
44:6 heard 59:2,5 imagine 25:12 29:10 32:9 11:10,11 18:11
heavy 50:24 37:13 53:2 34:1 51:9 22:6,15 42:7,9
23:10 held 3:19 51:14 implication injury 5:12 6:8 43:18,19,20
helicopter 4:18 28:16 7:20 9:1 10:3,5 47:9 59:15
29:20 5:5 47:1,3,10 implore 10:17 13:11 14:19,23 60:10 61:1
41:9 47:12 import 8:23 15:7 16:17 JOSEPH 1:18
51:5 Helicopters important 12:14 18:16 20:10,23 2:6 26:25
58:14 help 38:6 imposing 26:15 25:4 28:1,13 18:9 59:21
9:14,16 higher 45:20 12:20 29:6 60:23 7:8,19,23,24
35:18 55:8 58:20 inland 3:20 4:8 7:25 8:15 9:13
49:8 highlighted 33:5 including 20:18 4:14 38:9 9:16 10:1,6,9
58:6 35:11 21:4,6 inquiry 46:10 11:1,6 13:16
historical 35:15 incongruity installations 13:20,24 14:6
45:9 history 39:19 incorporate instance 50:3 15:4,10 16:2,5
57:11,12 hits 14:18 15:17 24:19 instructive 27:9 16:20,23 17:9
47:5,15 incorporates 54:14,17,20,23 20:9 21:8,23
23:12,19 Kennedy 7:23 44:20,23 48:2 line 48:20,25 31:13 33:10
25:9 7:25 8:15 9:13 48:3,12 52:6 49:7,10 45:9 46:10,11
26:22 9:16 10:6,9 56:18 61:12 lines 52:10 48:6 56:23
28:9,10
14:16 Lands 3:12 lists 27:20 57:12 61:2
29:12,23 19:15,22 20:3 land-based 8:11 litigation 53:8 looking 8:22
31:10
41:13 language 5:11 little 11:14 19:16,24
57:10 7:7 8:2,16 28:11,11 29:13 looks 9:24
33:4,6
34:6
50:24 27:5,7,8 28:15 living 22:25 23:2 lose 46:17
35:2
36:1,9
37:3
18:24 36:2 44:15 28:14 40:7 lump-sum 50:4
26:6,14 28:3 50:13 long 9:1 16:8
30:8,10 32:25 Larson's 55:13 22:4 39:18
36:11 latent 24:10,20 44:3 machine 8:9,11
39:8 44:21 Laughter 32:6 longshore 3:17
51:6 law 3:16 11:24 3:20 4:5,7,9,12 machinery 8:8
51:12 53:9,17 11:25 16:18 4:14,24,25 5:8
17:14 18:24 5:8 11:19 12:2 46:20
59:20 60:17 26:1,4 41:11 12:3,7,16 13:1
44:2
Knickerbocker 58:10,13,14 19:20 20:13,17
59:4,7 61:13 21:10,20 22:10 matter 1:12 15:5
know 6:23,25 laws 18:23 58:16 22:11,14 23:3
22:2,8
16:25 leap 11:16 23:22 24:19,23 32:2 54:13,19
17:1,15,18,22 left 61:2,3 24:24 26:16
20:14 legal 27:15 51:8 35:9,13 36:5 matters 34:3
51:11 23:7,20 24:21 legislating 25:22 36:21 37:8,16
52:1
30:20 26:7 38:11,23 39:9 mean 6:23 10:11
31:25 34:21 let's 4:18 8:17 40:23 41:1 16:9 18:9
53:4,7 35:3,4 39:9,11 15:12 34:18 42:20 47:3,6,8 20:15 22:3
42:17 45:24 level 59:13 61:9 47:13,16 52:11
25:18
49:12 liability 17:11 55:1 57:25 37:4 42:17
56:1,6 49:14 53:21 17:12,24,24,25 58:5,7 59:8,12
47:17
57:4
55:11,16 59:18,21 60:2 54:17 56:12
58:18 liable 55:5,9 60:3 61:4 Meaning 33:17
59:11,16 L lie 60:18 longshoreman means 31:5
60:8 L 1:7 lies 16:18 61:12 20:7 38:6 32:17 34:9,9
labor 27:13,17 life 36:23 40:14 55:21 60:1 47:23
45:17 light 49:1 26:15 56:24
24:2,16 8:5,10 15:5 56:24 look 8:25 10:13
27:5
29:17 limited 12:5 12:22 13:4,15 50:19,21
31:10,23 32:18 34:19 limits 12:12 13:6 16:10 26:5,16 Mexico 43:7
42:9,14 43:17 15:7 60:12 30:8 31:2,11 miles 4:3,19,20
37:15 navigable 4:4 28:3 35:20 9:11,20 16:16 P
5:1,2 12:5 13:7occurs 4:18 6:8 16:19 17:17 P 3:1
21:4,5 35:20 OCSLA 4:25 28:3,5,23 29:1 page 2:2 13:4
33:10 negligence 35:22 38:2 50:15,17 52:3 29:22 30:6,19
19:23 51:15 42:13 44:8,21 61:8,10,11 32:1,7,24 33:8
22:3,4 neighboring 45:1,6,19 Operators 1:3 33:19 34:11,24
27:22 27:8 54:25 58:12 3:4 5:3 35:7 36:8,11
never 25:1,2 OCSLA's 3:16 21:12,14 33:1 37:17,21,24
new 16:23 25:23 OCSLA-type opposed 18:23 39:11,13,17
nexus 14:22 October 1:10 oral 1:12 2:2,5,8 41:3,8,12,16
Ninth 3:19 9:17 40:15,17 outer 3:12,17 20:13 34:20,21
32:12 33:12 3:23 9:20 7:12,15 9:3 particular 14:3
nut 15:12,17 oil 8:4 29:14 45:10 49:21 particularity
O 51:4 58:4,13,20,25 particularly
occasion 17:2 operation 8:17 36:20 40:20,24 2:12 3:7 57:6
occurred 3:19 17:19 29:18 58:23 payment 40:15
occurring 5:2,13 7:4,20,21 8:10 owe 41:13 40:18
24:4,6 27:19 8:19 9:2,7,11 payroll 45:14,16
26:3,19 picked 58:4 57:12,13,13,16 7:5 question 3:11
54:18 Pickett 57:14 57:20,23 60:18 proposal 22:20 4:17 21:25
piers 37:7 31:21,23,24 proposing 43:24 31:2 36:24
pitcher 14:17 32:1 47:18,21 proposition 4:11 38:18,21 42:12
42:11 pitching 14:20 possibility 15:2 provide 13:17 42:23 43:3
45:22 place 7:1 9:24 post-1953 25:21 25:24 26:16,18 50:16
49:6,14 10:5 27:16,16 practical 54:13 29:10 36:21 questioned 59:3
53:4 29:2,9 51:21 54:19 48:17 49:21,22 questions 35:10
52:19 practice 27:18 provided 28:21 quite 5:12 8:4
plant 38:8,10 precisely 15:24 provides 3:12 28:8 35:11,24
19:7,8 22:7 precludes 25:5 34:13 35:18 quote 56:3
37:15 38:16 36:13 providing 15:7
42:17 44:3 9:24 27:12 34:13 R 1:18 2:6 3:1
6:21 14:4 43:4 presumably 15:22 16:6,8,8 18:8 20:8 24:4
18:18 plausible 57:18 prevails 36:15 17:2,3,6,10,12 reading 11:13
play 16:1 23:6 primarily 18:11 17:16,18,23 21:3
46:8,15 25:2,3 primary 11:23 18:2 33:3,5 real 23:2 54:10
48:17,20 please 3:10 27:3 15:15,16 31:24 51:6,7,7 54:11 55:9
56:4,7 41:18 42:3 principle 6:3 proximately reality 12:8
60:20 plus 11:13 57:21 private 1:22 17:16 really 5:17 14:2
point 7:3 10:13 2:10 40:5 42:1 public 55:18 15:23 17:8,9
23:3,8 25:22 22:2,13,14 61:9 38:25 40:17
37:23 43:15 59:9,10,21 12:16,24,25 reason 22:24
pointed 27:24 59:5 61:11 38:17
2:4,13 3:8 policies 17:7 41:11 put 3:22 29:7 35:15 39:14
policy 22:1 51:8 process 54:24 56:20 rebuttal 2:11
31:20 32:4,11 product 21:17 18:9 recognize 61:2
40:22 43:16,20 57:25 restriction 37:22 43:25 28:7 40:14
61:12 result 5:13 8:16 says 9:6 19:13 see 11:20 13:24
22:25 48:18 19:24 23:13,17 21:18 24:6 45:9 52:9,9
21:3,5 removal 51:1 29:10,24 30:17 36:2,4 37:13 self-contained
Reno 34:21 35:4 35:20 42:14 40:6 55:15 20:15
38:8 27:25 17:9,20 23:12 36:10,14 49:24
51:3 26:4 40:25 41:5,7 sensible 36:4
requirement 32:21 34:19 44:2,9,12 37:6 52:8
22:4,24 12:11 13:5,6 17:5 18:14 51:11,18,24 4:13 5:14 6:2,8
45:5 22:16 23:17,22 33:7 37:19,20 52:18 7:12,15,22
24:25 28:23,24 38:13 46:17 Scalia's 33:4 8:24 9:3,8,9,10
44:17 58:5,8 rigs 8:4 33:24 34:3 13:12 14:3,7
30:5,11 resolved 23:1 risks 54:14 58:21 16:16 18:10,17
33:25 resorts 60:24 road 34:22 35:4 schemes 33:24 20:7,14,18,21
44:7 resources 49:21 ROBERTS 3:3 38:1 21:2,6 23:23
53:14 respect 13:19 3:21 26:22 scope 7:1 18:3 24:5,7 25:5,6,7
19:18 27:25 28:10 34:16 24:11,21 45:3 25:11,15,19,22
Respondent 47:21 48:9,15 50:19,21 51:1 30:1,13 31:12
12:8 responses 18:25 S 60:11 48:1,4,21
rest 11:18,22 S 2:1 3:1 seasonal 48:11 49:21 50:10,15
22:5 12:13 20:20 saying 9:1,17 second 21:24 50:17,22,23
52:17 13:25 14:10,21 34:12 57:24 51:1 52:3,22
56:9,15 smuggle 5:19 spent 9:19 29:15 17:10 18:4,6,8 32:13,20 33:6
smuggling 5:23 29:16 52:24 19:18,18,19 33:8,9,9 48:24
6:5 56:14 23:21 24:3,4,5 50:2,9 51:7,12
snapshot 30:8 spill 51:4,4 24:11,14,18 53:14,18,24
61:7,9 33:11 springs 8:8 25:12 27:23 substantially
social 55:15 square 8:16 31:12 35:12,23 44:5 52:22
38:22 53:21 40:1,5 41:1,11 straightforward suppose 8:9
55:5 sort 17:2 25:22 47:19 49:18 3:11 29:12 50:11
36:8 13:16,20,24 58:24 59:7 strict 17:24 24:10 29:17
11:13 15:4,10 16:2,5 States 1:1,13 strike 32:14 sure 7:14 10:11
12:5 16:20,23 33:6 12:19,24,25 strikes 45:25 19:17 24:10
33:14,20 34:6 13:3 20:25 structures 10:24 25:13 44:14
22:11,15 34:11 39:25 39:3 58:15,19 stuck 54:12 59:19 61:10
24:24 56:1 59:23 58:23 59:3 subdivision 34:8 sweeps 33:2,3
sounds 17:3 status 7:18 8:1 subject 35:3 system 36:3
57:21,22 speak 5:11 9:24 10:2,4,14 53:8
60:4,5 speaks 7:18,18 10:16,21 11:1 subjected 49:25 T
60:24 specifically 9:6 33:16,17 45:18 47:12 56:6 tailor 12:7
38:24 specificity 28:20 status-based 33:19 46:21
44:16
29:19 32:10 22:16,18 61:17 13:8 15:9
26:13 spending 29:14 8:2 9:1,6,15,23 19:23 18:20 24:20,21
48:21 56:18 16:10 17:5,6,7 15:6,25 32:10 50:22,23
29:1 9:22 10:16 29:14,16,17,18 ultimately 23:1 50:20 56:3
30:9 17:13 35:11 29:20 30:3,3,8 unavailable variety 18:22
55:4 37:12 38:15 30:13 32:11,19 22:22 23:5,11 24:8
13:3 think 4:3,22 5:6 45:22 47:24 17:10 21:25 vessel 5:6 22:7
31:4 34:8 5:23 6:2,6,11 48:21,22 50:20 25:17 32:23 42:18,18,22
6:23 7:6,17 52:25 53:5 37:4 40:10 43:21 53:14,25
9:10 10:17 56:14,18 understanding vessels 43:14
12:4,15 13:20,21 14:13 told 7:11 understood 18:17,20 32:12
39:24 14:15,21 15:11 top 29:7 33:21 45:1
56:15,23 16:10,13,13 tort 39:4 55:17 underwrite viewed 23:8
11:2,4,9 21:20 22:23 totality 48:7,10 uniform 18:24 vulnerable
14:22 24:1,23 25:17 48:13 uniformity 47:22
27:6,13 traditionally 49:22
28:7,18,19 55:12 uniformly 39:4 W
26:15 29:22 30:6,8 travels 10:19 uniquely 30:14 want 8:25,25
33:16,17 30:19,21,25 treated 4:2 34:15,25 13:4 16:3,6
45:8,12 31:20 32:1,8,8 10:24 United 1:1,13 17:7 26:16,18
33:2,3,8,9,13 treatise 55:14 12:19,23,25 47:2 51:8
49:13 33:19,21 34:12 trouble 30:16 13:3 20:25 53:22 56:17
53:7 34:12,24 35:8 32:16
37:13 truck 52:19 unmoored 60:15 27:14 28:2
38:19 41:10 trucker 51:20
44:4 true 23:24 unprecedented 59:12,16
Third 33:1 25:23 49:17 39:21 Washington 1:9
34:11 thought 10:1,6 turns 24:1 use 12:25 23:13 wasn't 19:17
42:2 18:5 22:4 34:7 twilight 40:23
28:15 61:10
61:14
47:9,9 two 10:11 12:9 35:25 59:12 watching 6:19
18:2 Three 12:18 30:2 31:14,15 water 4:18 14:7
38:16 throws 14:17 36:17,25 V 47:13
tight 15:21 61:5 two-factor 46:4 v 1:6 3:5 51:14 waters 4:4 5:1,2
13:7,11 46:18 48:24 26:7 28:20 9
54:12 55:2 worse 60:9 19 35:18 903 13:1 20:4
15:17,20 56:8 worth 6:23 26:5 1950 48:18 903(a) 11:19
20:23 workday 38:4,4 wouldn't 3:25 1953 25:18 26:5 13:3,4,6,9
35:21 worked 37:14 7:16 15:18,24 39:3 40:22 19:16 20:18,20
47:20 42:5 51:21 18:5 37:3 49:18 903(e) 36:21
59:9 52:20 53:9,24 writing 25:12 1972 26:14 40:14,16
worker 3:13,14 written 10:21 96 13:4 19:16
7:12 29:14
18:3,6,7 18:14,19 19:6 2 12:14 30:3 30:2,13 34:18
23:17 34:4,25 40:1,3 X 34:8,19 49:2,2 42:11 44:22
26:14 44:7,21,24 x 1:2,8 56:1 59:24,24 56:16 60:19
31:18 47:1 48:18 60:20
43:3 50:10 51:4,21 Y 2.5 4:18
48:5 55:22 58:23 year 53:5 20 29:15 45:21
55:11 59:17,18 60:2 years 25:20 2002 57:15
60:13 workers 3:16 2011 1:10
3
34:3 35:12
38:1 39:2,4,23 1 61:5
12:14
45:4,13,15,16 3-mile 3:22
1:4 3:4
1:14 3:2
38:9
1:10
29:7 54:3,25,25 56:14
61:16
55:4 55:11,14 58:1 12-hour 49:3 4
25:2,2 workmens 41:1 11:17,17,24 60 25:20,20
26:13 workmen's 12:14,22,24
39:15 40:2 13:15 20:5,15 7
18:15 works 7:10 27:23 28:7,17
30:14 44:25 45:14 28:20,22 44:18 8
34:15 54:21 1333(b)(2) 31:3 80 29:16,19
45:2,5,21 world 25:23 1333(c) 27:11
