IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CHARLES ANDREW FOWLER, AKA MAN, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 10-5443
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 29, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:22 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
STEPHEN M. CRAWFORD, ESQ., Tampa, Florida; on behalf
of Petitioner.
SARAH E. HARRINGTON, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
STEPHEN M. CRAWFORD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SARAH E. HARRINGTON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 23
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
STEPHEN M. CRAWFORD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:22 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next this morning in Case 10-5443, Fowler v. United
States.
Mr. Crawford.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN M. CRAWFORD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CRAWFORD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
There is a significant disagreement between
the circuit court over what the government must prove
beyond a reasonable doubt to establish the violation of
Title 18, United States Code, section 1512(a)(1)(C).
This qualifying Federal criminal statute must be
construed clearly, consistently, and narrowly. Yet, the
Eleventh Circuit's opinion in this case conflicts with
the rulings in factually similar cases: From the Second
Circuit, Lopez, and the Fifth Circuit, Causey and other
circuit precedent. More specifically -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are they all consistent?
MR. CRAWFORD: It would be our opinion they
are all inconsistent, which is what we need from this
Court, Your Honor.
The Eleventh Circuit erred by placing the
word "possible" in the statute and, thus, significantly
modifying the plain language of the statute, and by
proposing a standard of mere possibility -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Crawford, what's your
standard? Sometimes you say "certain"; sometimes you
say "likely"; sometimes you say "plausible." Which -
which is your standard?
MR. CRAWFORD: Justice Kagan, we would offer
the standard of realistic likelihood, which we cited in
our brief on page 17 and page 41, as the appropriate
standard in this particular case. That is language that
comes from Lopez, the Second Circuit case, and also
places a higher burden on the government, which we
believe is important in order to maintain the
Federal/State balance that is required in Federal
criminal matters.
It is a reasonable standard, more reasonable
than what we would characterize the governor's -- the
government's standard of "reasonable possible." In
their brief, page 9, 10, and 13, they propose that,
which, we would add, differs from what the Eleventh
Circuit said.
If you'll remember, in Lopez, the Eleventh
Circuit offered the standard "possible." And yet, the
government, backing away from that a bit, in their
briefs, on page 9, 10, and 13, used the phrase
"reasonably possible." And while we would concede it is
an improvement on the Eleventh Circuit's mere
possibility standard, it still is vague. It still
upsets the -
JUSTICE ALITO: The statute speaks of the
intent of the defendant. The defendant must intend to
prevent the communication of information about a Federal
offense or a possible Federal offense to a law
enforcement officer who happens to be a Federal law
enforcement officer. So, it's all a matter of intent.
Where do you get this question of whether
it's possible or likely or certain or whatever that the
information will eventually get to a Federal law
enforcement officer? Isn't it -- isn't it simply what
is in the mind of the defendant?
MR. CRAWFORD: We believe that
subsection (g) of the statute precludes the -- or takes
the mens rea element of the defendant off the table with
respect to whether or not the person is a law
enforcement official or whether or not there's an
ongoing Federal criminal investigation.
We would agree with you that the law does
require that the defendant intend to prevent a
communication. The Eleventh Circuit puts the word
"possible" in there and says intent to prevent a
possible communication. And that's the rub, Justice
Alito, that we're asking this Court to address.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Going -- going back to
Justice Alito's question: Obviously, the statute's not
written to say the intent to preclude a witness from
talking to law enforcement officials. If it were that
simple about a Federal crime, then it wouldn't matter
whether it was likely, possible. All that we have -
know is that the witness was -- that the killing was
intended to stop them from talking to law enforcement,
period. So, clearly, (g) has to have a meaning
different than merely stopping from someone talking to a
law enforcement officer, because there has to be some
connection to that officer being a Federal officer.
So, going back to Justice Alito's question,
how do you define the intent? What is the defendant's
intent? If he doesn't have to know it's a Federal
officer, what does he have to intend?
MR. CRAWFORD: We believe that you define or
would find -- determine the defendant's intent based on
the circumstances and the totality of the circumstances
of the case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Articulate what the
intent has to be.
MR. CRAWFORD: The intent would have to be a
realistic likelihood that there's going to be
communication.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does the defendant have
to know that? That's my question. Does he have to
intend to stop the witness from communicating this
information to someone that's related to either a
Federal judge or a Federal law enforcement agent?
MR. CRAWFORD: Yes, Your Honor. That is the
gravamen of the offense. That intent element is
essential.
JUSTICE ALITO: What do you say that is -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What does that have to do
with reasonable likelihood that it would occur? I mean,
he either intends it or he doesn't intend it. What -
MR. CRAWFORD: The -
JUSTICE ALITO: The reasonable likelihood
that this person who was killed -- now, you say
"realistic likelihood."
MR. CRAWFORD: That is correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The realistic likelihood
that this person who was killed might have gone to a
Federal officer doesn't at all establish that the intent
of the person who killed him was to prevent him from
going to that officer, does it?
MR. CRAWFORD: We -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, it seems to me you
have to stand on one stool or the other one. Either
it -- it relates to intent, as the statute says, or all
there has to be is a reasonable likelihood that this
person who was killed would have gone to a Federal
official.
MR. CRAWFORD: Well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is it?
MR. CRAWFORD: It is our position that we
are trying to determine or the jury has to determine a
future act. The prevention of communication denotes the
future tense of the word "communicate." So, what
standard should we ask the jury to use in order to
determine whether the government has provided evidence
that there was going to be a future act prevented? And
so, it is -
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, that -- that's not
what the statute says. It doesn't talk about preventing
a future act. It doesn't say anyone who kills someone
who would have gone to a Federal official is -- is
subject to this penalty.
MR. CRAWFORD: Well, Your Honor, we
believe -
JUSTICE SCALIA: If that's what it said,
your -- your realistic likelihood test would be quite
reasonable, but it doesn't say that. It says that
the -- the killing has to be with the intent of
preventing him from going.
MR. CRAWFORD: The intent to prevent the
communication, the communication in the future is what
is modified by the word "prevent." And so, that's what
we're -- that's what we're struggling with, Your Honor.
We're trying to come up with a standard as to what -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Crawford, do you think
this is right, that the statute says that the person has
to prevent the communication to a law enforcement
officer? The statute also says that the law enforcement
officer, in fact, has to be a Federal law enforcement
officer, but because of subsection (g), the statute does
not require that the person intend the communication to
be to a Federal law enforcement officer, and that's what
we're struggling over, correct?
MR. CRAWFORD: That is correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And -- and in doing that -
I mean, I guess my question to you is the same as my
question to the Government, which is where any of these
standards come from. And I agree that the statute does
not provide a lot of guidance, but how does one pick
between a realistic likelihood or a possibility or a
theoretical possibility or any of those things?
MR. CRAWFORD: We would urge the Court to
pick a particular standard, if you're going to, to help
us interpret this statute that would strike the
appropriate balance between State and Federal criminal
jurisdiction.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why don't we pick the
standard that is set out in the text of the statute?
Let me give you this example:
Let's -- let's hypothesize a very cold,
calculating, rational defendant who is planning a
Federal crime, let's say the hijacking of an airplane
over international waters, and this defendant finds out
that his mother has learned about the plot. Now, he
says, well, you know, I think there's a one-tenth of
1 percent chance that mom is going to go to the FBI and
turn me in, but in order to prevent that, I'm going to
kill her. I intend -- I kill her with the -- for the
purpose of preventing her from going to the FBI, even
though I think very, very, very unlikely she's going to
do that.
Hasn't that defendant violated this statute?
MR. CRAWFORD: We believe the jury would
make that determination as to whether or not it was
likely, realistically likely that mom would report him
to Federal law enforcement officials. That's what we're
trying to do, is give the lower courts or the -- or the
jury -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't -- I think Justice
Alito can protect his own question, but I don't think
you've answered it. You've put in realistic likelihood.
He's asked you whether or not as a matter of law,
assuming that you're a juror and you read the statute
and you were instructed on the words of the statute and
you have Justice Alito's hypothetical, what result?
MR. CRAWFORD: The result of the question of
intent? Or what are you asking the result of -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The reliability under the
statute under Justice Alito's hypothetical.
MR. CRAWFORD: Then we would say, yes, that
the defendant could be found to have violated the
statute under that particular hypothetical.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. Then Justice
Alito's next question -- again, he can protect his own
line of questioning -- but what does that have to do
with realistic likelihood? There's no realistic
likelihood; it was only a half of 1 percent chance that
the communication would be made. So, that takes
realistic likelihood off the table, and if it's off the
table, you have to give us a different test.
MR. CRAWFORD: Well, then, I would go with
the beyond a reasonable doubt that the government must
prove in any criminal matter.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what I wondered.
You haven't really argued that, so maybe I'm missing
something, and this question may be better for the other
side, but this statute, as you go through it, has some
elements.
The first are facts about the world, killing
people; the second has to do with intent, and then they
talk about all these different things to stop him from
going to a Federal officer; the third says no state of
mind need be proved with respect to the fact he works
for the Feds. So, therefore, it's not part of intent.
Now, if it's a circumstance that is an
element of the offense and it is not part of the intent
of the defendant, then isn't it an element, like all
other elements, that you have to prove beyond a
reasonable doubt?
MR. CRAWFORD: We would agree. That is -
JUSTICE BREYER: You didn't argue it, so
nobody's ever adopted this, so I feel I might be barking
up the wrong tree. Now, I grant you, you're not the
leaf on the tree that's going to give me the answer I
need, which is why I'm wrong, but -- but did you -
you've researched this and haven't really argued this
point. So, why not?
MR. CRAWFORD: Well, we understand. And -
and we are assuming, of course, that all elements of the
offense have to be proven beyond a reasonable doubt.
What we've tried to do is provide the Court with some
sort of standard that the jury could be instructed as
how to prove that fourth element, and that is this
future communication.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You think a realistic
likelihood must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt?
MR. CRAWFORD: We do.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You think a juror can grasp
all of that in a juror's mind? You must find that there
is -
MR. CRAWFORD: I do, Your Honor. I
believe -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that there is a
realistic likelihood beyond a reasonable doubt?
MR. CRAWFORD: We believe that given the
proper instructions and definitions of the word
"realistic likelihood" -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose the -- suppose
the prosecutor argued a realistic prospect there. When
Gamble confessed, he confessed to the local police, and
they immediately communicated that information to the
Federal prosecutors. So, if that's what the government
counsel argues, wouldn't that be a realistic prospect -
wouldn't they likely have done the same thing with
respect to Fowler that they did with respect to Gamble?
MR. CRAWFORD: Well, I would answer that two
ways, Justice Ginsburg. Number one, that is not what
happened in the case below. Once Mr. Gamble decided
to -- 4 years after the killing of Officer Horner, to
talk to local law enforcement, it was not immediately
reported to the Federal law enforcement officials. It
was reported years later. So, we don't have that
immediacy.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was -- what was the time
sequence? How much after Gamble came to the local
police did the local police go to the -
MR. CRAWFORD: Officer Horner was found dead
on March of 1998, and he came forward to the local
police in 2002 after he was sentenced to 20 years on an
unrelated State robbery. There was then several years
before the U.S. Attorney's Office was contacted, and
they decided to go forward with the case that is before
us today.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Several years after 2002?
MR. CRAWFORD: 2002 is when he came forward
and began talking to law enforcement.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: When did they go to the
Federal authorities after 2002?
MR. CRAWFORD: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: When did they go to the
Federal authorities after 2002?
MR. CRAWFORD: 2003. Almost -- almost a
year afterwards it was -- it was taken over there.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is -- what is
your position on the subsequent element or -- or feature
about relating to the commission or possible commission
of a Federal offense? Does the defendant have to know
that his actions to prevent communication involve an
underlying Federal offense?
MR. CRAWFORD: No, Your Honor, they do not.
You basically take your offense as you find them, just
as you take your officer as you find him, and we believe
that's the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is that?
1512(g)(2) talks about with respect to the law
enforcement officer.
MR. CRAWFORD: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought
you'd say there's a negative implication that intent has
to be shown with respect to everything else, including
whether or not this is a possible Federal crime.
MR. CRAWFORD: Well, we -- we are willing to
concede that there was a possible Federal crime that was
occurring at the time of Officer Horner's death.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are you willing to
concede that the defendant knew that?
MR. CRAWFORD: I'm willing to concede the
defendant -- it need not be proved that the defendant
knew that.
Now, if the government can establish
evidence of that, we believe that goes to the
defendant's intent and to a different element, but the
government need not prove that because we believe the
subsection (g) takes that off the table.
JUSTICE ALITO: The issue -- the issue here
is the sufficiency of the evidence. So -- so -- and the
question is whether a reasonable juror could adopt a
certain view of the facts.
Now, couldn't a reasonable juror in this
situation take this view of the facts? Your client
killed Officer Horner simply because your client didn't
want to go to jail. He didn't particularly care whether
he was going to be prosecuted in State court or Federal
court; he just didn't want to go to jail. So his intent
was to prevent the communication of information about
the crimes that were being planned to any law
enforcement officer who could send him to jail, and that
would include a State officer; it also would include a
Federal officer. And, therefore, there's a violation of
the statute.
Now, what's wrong with that view of the
facts?
MR. CRAWFORD: We believe, Your Honor, that
if that is the reading of the statute, that that would
basically federalize murder, that there is always going
to be some overlapping Federal crime that is possible,
or the possible commission of, and if that becomes the
standard or the reading or the interpretation of 1512,
then every case is going to be allowed to be
prosecuted -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would think your answer
would be that if that were the law, (a)(1)(C) would have
omitted the word "Federal."
MR. CRAWFORD: I would agree.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It would have said "by any
person to a law enforcement officer." And you would -
you would eliminate "or judge of the United States" -
"information related to commission or possible
commission of a violation of the law," period.
MR. CRAWFORD: I -- I would agree with you.
The Congress sought or deemed fit to put the word
"Federal" in there twice, both a Federal offense and a
Federal official.
JUSTICE ALITO: No, because if there were -
if the only crimes that were being planned were State
offenses, then there would be no chance that -- that the
conveying of that information to a Federal law
enforcement officer would send the person to jail.
MR. CRAWFORD: Well, the problem, Justice
Alito -
JUSTICE ALITO: They're planning -- they're
planning to hold up a convenience store. It's not a
Federal offense; it's a State offense.
MR. CRAWFORD: Well -
JUSTICE ALITO: So, the person isn't going
to go to jail on a Federal charge.
MR. CRAWFORD: I'm not so sure that holding
up a convenience store would not qualify under the Hobbs
Act or under some other Federal statute that a
creative -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, are you saying that
there is no possible offense that's only a violation of
State law and Federal law?
MR. CRAWFORD: There are.
JUSTICE ALITO: All right.
MR. CRAWFORD: But there needs to be proof
-- there needs to be proof more than just the mere
presence of a potential Federal offense. I believe in
the Third Circuit opinion of Bell, which, if I remember
it correctly, when you were serving on the Third
Circuit, you authored that opinion, that you set up a
standard that the Federal crime has to have additional
appropriate evidence in order to have a violation under
this statute.
That's the problem we have with this case,
is that we have Federal crimes -- we'll concede that;
the cocaine and the potential or conspiracy to rob a
bank -- but there is no additional appropriate evidence
to meet the standard here. So, using the opinion in
Bell, we would ask this Court to find that -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Crawford, what would
happen if you were dealing with a Federal offense that
was a distinctly Federal offense, that really didn't
have a State counterpart, like hijacking an airplane?
Would that itself be sufficient to support a prosecution
under this statute?
MR. CRAWFORD: It would be -- it would make
the government's burden easier, because it is more
likely than not, it is realistic likelihood that there's
going to be Federal involvement, as Justice Scalia
pointed out, on a case where it's a threat to kill the
President or hijacking or income tax, Federal income
tax.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Is that actually similar to
this case? These guys were going to rob a bank, which I
take it is mostly prosecuted by Federal officials.
MR. CRAWFORD: Well, I would agree with
that.
Certainly not in the State of Florida. I
would say that most State attorneys handle bank
robberies as much if not more than the Federal
authorities. But we would concede that bank robbery is
a Federal crime. That's why we need something more than
just Federal crime to confer jurisdiction.
We need Federal law enforcement involvement,
and we have nothing on this record that shows any
involvement of Federal law enforcement. And that's why
the case needs to be reversed. That's why the Eleventh
Circuit's standard of mere possibility is too broad, and
we're looking for a rule from this Court that will
narrow that and keep that -- that balance of Federal and
State criminal jurisprudence where it needs to be.
And, quite frankly, if there's no other
questions -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I have one last one, the
plain error question. Neither your brief -- I think
you're taking the position that simply because we
granted cert, we've accepted there's a plain error; is
that your position? Because you haven't really defended
against a finding of plain error.
MR. CRAWFORD: Well, the trial lawyer did a
poor job in articulating the reasons for the judgment of
acquittal.
JUSTICE BREYER: I take it you were not the
trial lawyer?
MR. CRAWFORD: Well, unfortunately, Judge, I
was. So, that's why I -
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, you were?
(Laughter.)
MR. CRAWFORD: Did a poor job of
articulating the judgment of -- the judgment at
acquittal time, the reasons that the court should grant
it and quite frankly did disservice to the district
court judge, who we need to help out more. But -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we're really -
granted cert to give an advisory opinion?
MR. CRAWFORD: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because if there's not
plain error, how do we reverse this court below?
MR. CRAWFORD: Well, we believe that when
the argument was made at the Eleventh Circuit, that
whether the sufficiency of the evidence issue was raised
there, and the Eleventh Circuit chose not to rule on
that, but chose to rule on a statutory construction of
1512 -- that then, when this Court granted cert, that
basically took that issue off the table.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what you're
suggesting is that we announce the standard, hopefully
different than the courts below for your sake, and then
remand to then let the court apply the new standard?
MR. CRAWFORD: That is one possibility.
Or -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And if it's not, what's
the other?
MR. CRAWFORD: The other is, is to overrule
the Eleventh Circuit and with instructions to enter a
judgment of acquittal.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How could we do that
unless we found there was plain error? And how can we
say there's plain error when this question has vexed so
many courts?
MR. CRAWFORD: I don't know at this
particular point, but I do know that we have a problem
in the circuits, that the standards being applied are
across the board; and we need a bright line, hopefully a
bright-line rule, that will help us in the courts below
so we can do our job better.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I have to say to you
that even if a bright-line rule is announced, the real
work begins in deciding what evidence is sufficient to
meet that burden.
MR. CRAWFORD: Understood, but it's our
position that any of the rules that have been proposed,
except maybe the mere possibility, which is overbroad,
there still is nothing on this record that is going to
show a Federal law enforcement involvement or
communication to Federal law enforcement; and we're
going to win at any point. That is our fall-back
position on that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Anyway, you've made a fine
argument here, even if you didn't make it -
(Laughter.)
MR. CRAWFORD: Thank you, sir. I'll do
better next time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. CRAWFORD: Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Harrington.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SARAH E. HARRINGTON
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. HARRINGTON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
When Congress enacted section 1512(a)(1)(C),
it sought to protect the integrity of Federal criminal
investigations and prosecutions. The statute requires
the government to prove four things -- an actus reus, a
mens rea and two Federal nexus elements, one of which is
at issue in this case. The actus reus is murder, the
mens rea that's common to every prosecution under
section 1512(a)(1)(C) is an intent to prevent the
communication of information to a law enforcement
officer. The first Federal nexus element requires that
that information relate to the commission or possible
commission of a Federal offense; and the second Federal
nexus element, the one at issue in this case, requires
that there's a reasonable possibility that the
information would have been communicated to a Federal
officer if the murder had not occurred.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, where does that
reasonable possibility standard come from, Ms.
Harrington?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, it comes from trying
to construe all the different relevant provisions of the
statute to make sense together. Section (a)(1)(C)
specifies that a defendant has to have an intent to
prevent the communication of the relevant information to
a law enforcement officer; section 1515 tells us that
the law enforcement officer has to be a Federal law
enforcement officer, that's the definitional section;
and then section 1512(g)(2) specifies that the
government doesn't need to prove any state of mind about
the fact that the officer is a Federal officer.
JUSTICE ALITO: Let me give you a
hypothetical similar to the one that I gave your -- your
friend. Two men are sitting on a park bench planning
the commission of a Federal crime, hijacking of an
airplane, and they think they're by themselves; so
they're talking about this, and then after they've had a
discussion they turn around and they see there's
somebody standing very close by; and so they say we have
to kill this person to prevent him from going to the
FBI, and so they do, and they're prosecuted under this
statute. But then at trial they bring out evidence that
the person didn't speak a word of English, only spoke
Russian. So there wasn't any possibility whatsoever
that this person was going to report that to the FBI or
any law enforcement officer. Violation of this statute
or not?
MS. HARRINGTON: Yes. In our view there are
two different ways to prove a violation of the statute.
One is if you just read section (a)(1)(C), a natural
reading of that section is that if a -- if defendant has
a specific intent to prevent a communication to a
Federal officer specifically, then that's a violation of
the statute.
What subsection (g)(2) tells us is that you
don't need to prove a Federal officer's specific intent
for every violation of the statute, but if you can prove
that, then that's enough. And so in this case there's
no evidence that the Petitioner had a specific intent as
to a Federal officer, but, for example, if Officer
Horner had said, hey, I'm the FBI or hey, I'm calling
the FBI right now, and then he had killed him, that
would have been enough whether it were true or not.
JUSTICE ALITO: So a realistic probability
relates only to the question of whether it would have
been conveyed to a Federal officer as opposed to some
other law enforcement officer?
MS. HARRINGTON: Yes, that's right, and in
section (g)(2) it's described as a circumstance that the
Federal, that the officer in question is a Federal
officer, and so that's -- that's a fact in the world
that the jury needs to make a determination about. Of
course, it's a fact in the world about -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But suppose in Justice -
please continue. I interrupted you.
MS. HARRINGTON: That's okay. I was going
to say it's a fact in the world about something that by
-- by the design of the defendant is never going to
happen. The communication that's at issue when you -
when you don't have the Federal officer's specific
intent, is a communication that's never going to happen,
and so the jury has to make a reasonable prediction
about what could have happened in the absence of the
murder.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What do you see -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose in Justice Alito's
hypothetical, two guys on the park bench, and they find
out that the man with the gray coat behind them was
listening. They say, we have to get the man with the
gray coat. They turn around and they shoot a man with a
gray coat, but it's a different man. What result?
MS. HARRINGTON: If they -- if they -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It wasn't the man that was
listening. They got the wrong guy.
MS. HARRINGTON: But if -- if the same -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The intent was there.
MS. HARRINGTON: So they say, we have to
shoot this guy to keep him from talking to the FBI?
That's still a violation of the statute, because they
have the requisite intent as to a Federal officer.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then your realistic
possibility -- the realistic probability standard just
falls out of your test.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, just to be clear, the
realistic possibility part only comes in where the
defendant doesn't have a specific intent as to the
Federal officer specifically. So, in Justice Alito's
hypothetical, the intent was to prevent a communication
to the FBI in particular, and if a defendant has that
specific Federal officer, a specific intent, it doesn't
matter whether it might have happened, would have
happened, could have happened.
Where the reasonable possibility standard
comes in is in cases like this one, where the defendant
has an intent to prevent a communication to a law
enforcement officer for sure, but doesn't have any
specific intent as to the Federal nature.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I think it's very
difficult to instruct the jury, to say, now, sometimes
there's realistic probability, sometimes there isn't. I
just don't know what this jury instruction is going to
look like.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, I think the jury
instruction would say, you know, you need to make a
determination about what could have happened if the
murder hadn't occurred, and if you find that there is a
reasonable possibility that there would have been a
communication with the Federal officer -- and that can
be proved in any number of different ways in any
particular case -- then you find that there's a
violation of the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you -- why do you
need that? I mean, we're always talking here about -
about murders of a witness, right?
MS. HARRINGTON: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you're always talking
about a murder that was intended to remove somebody who
could incriminate the killer -
MS. HARRINGTON: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- for some other crime.
Why isn't it enough to say you killed that person to
prevent the disclosure of the crime, and if the crime
was a Federal crime, the disclosure you were preventing
was a disclosure to a Federal Court or to a Federal
police officer?
Why -- why do you have to create a -- a
reasonable likelihood that this person, this particular
person, would have gone to a Federal officer rather than
a State officer? Isn't it enough to kill the person to
prevent disclosure of the crime that the crime was a
Federal crime? Why isn't that the test?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, I think that's an
interpretation of the statute the government could live
with, but the effect of that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, the government could
more than live with it. The government could wallow in
it.
MS. HARRINGTON: But that -- indeed. But
that is a more aggressive reading than the reading we're
offering, because Congress went to the extra step of
defining "law enforcement officer" to mean "Federal law
enforcement officer." So the interpretation you're
positing would essentially read that out of the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but the statute reads
it out of the statute. It says in (g) that you don't -
the intent element does -- does not require that you
know it's a Federal officer or that you know it's a
Federal judicial proceeding.
MS. HARRINGTON: Right. The reason -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why isn't it enough that
you -- you kill somebody to prevent the disclosure of a
crime that's a Federal crime?
MS. HARRINGTON: I mean, Congress could have
written the statute that way, but when Congress defined
"law enforcement officer" to mean "Federal law
enforcement officer," presumably, they meant that to
mean something. And in (g)(2), what they do is they
take the Federal nature of the law enforcement officer
out of the mens rea part of the offense, but they
describe it as a circumstance, and so that presumably
is -- has to relate to something that could have
happened in the world in the absence of the murder.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Isn't -- if you have
a Federal -- underlying Federal offense, and I gather
you don't think -- that just needs to be shown as a
matter of fact, right?
MS. HARRINGTON: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No intent with
respect to that.
Isn't it always likely that there's going to
be a reasonable possibility, reasonable likelihood, that
the communication is going to go to a Federal officer?
MS. HARRINGTON: I -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a Federal
offense. If the communication covers Federal judges,
that's the person who is going to try the case in every
case.
MS. HARRINGTON: Except that not all crimes
that could be prosecuted as Federal crimes are
prosecuted as Federal crimes. For example, there are -
most drug crimes are prosecuted by State authorities
rather than by Federal authorities, even though -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, obviously not
all of them.
MS. HARRINGTON: Not all of them. If -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think that -
that it's not an element of the crime, but that feature
of the prosecution depends upon what percentage of the
crimes are prosecuted Federally as opposed to by State
law?
MS. HARRINGTON: No, it doesn't. And I
think in a particular case, if the drug crime is the
underlying crime, that could serve as the predicate
crime. But I think that what matters is what the jury
has reason to conclude, and jurors generally don't
understand the way that the Federal system works
vis-à-vis the State system. And so if there's no reason
for the jury to think that the information might have
gone to Federal officers, then they wouldn't have a
basis for a conviction under the statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can you instruct the
jury that the underlying crime here is a Federal crime
and then say the only thing they have to determine under
some standard is whether or not the communication would
be to a Federal officer?
MS. HARRINGTON: You could -- you could give
that instruction, but I -- I think -- I took the
hypothetical from Justice Scalia to be that you wouldn't
need to show that there's any -- any chance that the
communication would have gone to a Federal officer. And
I think that would read the Federal officer definition
out of the statute, if all that was required was that
the offense be a Federal offense.
And then could you just say, well, you know,
in theory -- and it's true that anybody who has
information about a commission of a Federal offense,
theoretically, could someday choose to give that
information to a Federal officer, but that -
JUSTICE ALITO: Let's say the case -- that
this case arises -- exactly this case arises in two
different adjacent jurisdictions. In one, the local
sheriff and the local district attorney hate the Feds.
They never talk to them unless they absolutely have to.
And so if Officer Horner had taken the information that
he learned to the local sheriff, there's no chance
whatsoever that they would have referred that over to
the FBI or the U.S. attorney for prosecution in Federal
Court, so no realistic possibility there.
In the other jurisdiction, right next door,
the local sheriff and the local DA don't want to be
bothered with bank robbery trials. They send all of
those over to the FBI and the U.S. attorney, so there's
a very high probability the information would have
gotten to the Federal authorities.
Now, would this case come out differently
depending on the jurisdiction?
MS. HARRINGTON: I think it would, Justice
Alito. I think in the first case, the jury wouldn't
have a reasonable basis to conclude that the information
might have gone to Federal officers in the absence of
the murder. In the second case, they would have a very
reasonable basis to make that inference.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't see what that has
to do with the defendant's intent.
MS. HARRINGTON: It doesn't have anything to
do with the defendant's intent. Again, there are two
different ways, in our view, to prove a violation of the
statute. One is if the defendant has a specific intent
about preventing communication to a specifically Federal
officer. If the Federal nature of the officer is in his
mind, that's one way to prove a violation of the
statute.
If he doesn't have that specific intent,
which is going to be in most cases, honestly, that are
prosecuted under the statute, then you have to prove
that there's some reasonable possibility that that
communication would have happened -
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, where do we get
this -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then you have to change
your answer -- right? Maybe you don't -- to my
hypothetical where they shoot the wrong man.
MS. HARRINGTON: But in your hypothetical,
which I think you borrowed from Justice Alito, there was
a specific intent to prevent a communication with the
FBI, and so there they have the Federal officer specific
intent.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't it rather strange,
trials? It's such a weird issue to submit to the jury
in a criminal trial, you know, whether this witness who
was -- whether there's a reasonable likelihood that this
person who was killed would have gone to a Federal law
enforcement authority rather than the State law
enforcement authority?
MS. HARRINGTON: But the reason it's weird
is because the design of the defendant in killing the
victim is to prevent something from happening, and then
the jury is asked to make a -- make a determination of
whether that thing might have happened or not.
And so you don't -- if you place too high a
burden on the government, you're basically giving a
defendant who acts efficiently and early in the criminal
process a leg up, because you're -- if you require the
government to prove that it's more likely than not that
the communication in question would have happened with
the Federal officer, then what you're doing is you're
not giving sufficient protection to those communications
to Federal officers that would cause a Federal
investigation to be initiated. Right? You're -- it's
not how -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm a little bit
confused. Tell me exactly why you see a difference
between "realistically likely" or "reasonably possible."
Tell me -- tell me what fine line exists between those
two and what quantum of evidence more you would need
under one as opposed to the other.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, I guess what we
see -- where we see the -- sort of the ballpark is,
either the government needs to prove that it's more
likely than not that it would have happened, or they
just need to prove that it's a reasonable possibility.
And so we would opt for the second of those two options.
You could -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me what the
difference in proof would look like.
MS. HARRINGTON: The difference in proof -
I mean, it depends on the particular case. Right? In
many of the cases that are actually prosecuted under the
statute, there's already a Federal investigation
underway, and in those cases, this element -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: "Likely" is proven?
MS. HARRINGTON: Easy to prove, yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Okay.
MS. HARRINGTON: So the cases that are at
issue are cases like this, where the murder happens
almost contemporaneously with the Federal criminal
activity. And in those cases, nobody's had a chance to
even think about initiating an investigation, and so -
but those initial communications are vital to protecting
the Federal interest and protecting the integrity of
Federal investigations.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but you still had
to prove, didn't you, or wouldn't you have a measure of
obligation to have a witness get up on the stand and
say, the FBI always looks at bank robberies? In the
absence of that, aren't we asking the jury to speculate
that, merely because it can be a Federal crime -- bank
robbery can be both a State and a Federal -- that it's
reasonably possible it would go, not everything you
yourself said not everything goes to the Federal
government, so -
MS. HARRINGTON: Right. And if I -- I would
like to try to separate. There is the question of what
is the element of the crime, how -- how do we define it,
then what -- what is the evidence you would introduce to
satisfy that element.
In this case, certainly the government could
have introduced evidence that -- that local law
enforcement officers report all evidence of bank
robberies to the FBI. That would have been enough.
They didn't introduce that evidence.
What they introduced instead was that when
local law enforcement officers later got the information
through other sources, they then shared the information
with Federal officers. If they hadn't proven that, our
contention is it wouldn't -- the evidence would not have
been sufficient to sustain the conviction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Miss Harrington, we -
we've gotten along for over 200 years without this
particular Federal law, and I, therefore, am not
inclined to give it a -- a sweeping broad
interpretation, and I think it's so weird to submit to
the jury, you know, how likely is it that this dead
person would have gone to a Federal law enforcement
officer rather than a State law enforcement officer.
Why isn't an entirely satisfactory reading
of this statute the following, that if you -- if,
indeed, you have in mind specifically the FBI or a
Federal proceeding, you're done? If, however, you don't
have in mind specifically a Federal proceeding, but you
have in mind a particular proceeding, which is a Federal
proceeding, or a particular officer who is a Federal
officer, then you're done, but anything else isn't
covered?
So the intent has to be the intent to stop a
particular proceeding or -- or to stop the person going
to a particular officer. If that proceeding is Federal
or if the officer is Federal, you have the -- but
otherwise, the laws that we've lived under for 210 years
will continue to apply, and -- and -- and this new
Federal statute will not apply.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, Justice Scalia, I
think it would be insufficiently protective of the
Federal interests to say that you could only -- that you
would look at what the defendant had in mind about what
the chain of communication might be if he didn't murder
the person who was witnessing the crime. Most
defendants don't think, wow, you know, if Officer Horner
is going to call the dispatch, the dispatch is going to
call, you know, the other person in the Haines City
police department, they're going to call the sheriff,
they're going to call the Federal law enforcement
officers, most defendants wouldn't have -- wouldn't be
thinking down that -- sort of down the chain of
communication that way.
But the statute criminalizes killing someone
to prevent the communication, not a communication, not a
particular communication, but the communication by any
person of information relating to the commission of a
Federal crime.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suspect that what this
mainly addressed is -- is killing of witnesses, which
has become very common in some jurisdictions, witnesses
in criminal trials, and you know darn well what trial is
involved. It's a trial that's already underway, and if
it's a Federal trial and you kill the witness, you're -
you're liable under this statute.
What -- what is covered beyond that is if -
if you know that the information is going to be given to
a Federal officer, then they have you also, but I don't
know why we should read the statute any more broadly
than that and -- and have these weird questions
submitted to the jury how likely was it that this -
this dead person would have gone to a Federal officer
rather than a State officer and -- and inquire into the
question that Justice Alito asked, you know, how is
there a friendly relationship between State and local
officials so that the State official would -- I don't
want to get into that. I don't think the juries do.
MS. HARRINGTON: I mean, many of these
things are not -- in many of these cases, this is not an
element that's difficult to prove. If, as you say, it's
a witness in a particular investigation or is going to
testify in a particular trial who has been murdered,
then it's easy to prove that the Federal officer nexus
has been satisfied. But Congress was also trying to
protect information that would cause Federal
investigations to be initiated. Those are important
communications.
If you allow murders of people who witness
crimes in order to prevent them from reporting that
information to law enforcement officers, where the
reporting of that information would have caused a
Federal investigation to be initiated, then you're
insufficiently protecting the Federal interest in
prosecuting Federal crimes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Harrington, what would
be -- what would happen if instead of Officer Horner,
the custodian of the cemetery had come across these
people and the exact same thing had happened, would you
then say that there would be -- that there would be a
prosecution -- there could be a prosecution under this
statute?
MS. HARRINGTON: Not unless the custodian of
the cemetery was on his cell phone saying I'm calling
911. So, if we -- what's important -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So is that the difference,
that Officer Horner was on his cell phone?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, in terms of whether
the evidence that was presented in this case was
sufficient, it was sufficient because the jury knew two
things. They knew, first, that Officer Horner
definitely would have communicated the information
that's relevant in the case to local law enforcement
officers; and second, they knew that when local law
enforcement officers later acquired that information
from other sources, they shared it with Federal
officers.
So if you didn't know the first step, if you
didn't know that definitely the person who was killed
would have communicated to local law enforcement
officers, then there wouldn't be a reason -- first of
all, you might not have -- have the correct specific
intent to prevent communication with a law enforcement
officer which is required.
JUSTICE BREYER: I do have a question I
would like to ask at some point. Are you finished?
MS. HARRINGTON: Yes. Go ahead.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because this is very
interesting. I normally think purpose is important. In
this one I don't, and suppose I'm right, purpose has
nothing to do with this. The problem here is with the
words "intent" and "prevent."
MS. HARRINGTON: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And it's how they're used
in ordinary English. So let me give you an example,
even odder than Justice Alito's. But I think it
illustrates the point -- the question.
Imagine you put your son in his room, and
they say why do you keep your son in his room doing his
homework? Because I wanted to prevent him from going to
the movies. That's why. Now, when you say that, we
would impute, correctly, you wanted to prevent him from
going to a Hollywood movie. You wanted to prevent him
from going to an old movie, prevent him from going to a
new movie, but prevent him from going to a Lithuanian
movie?
Now, why does that sound so odd? Because
there's no realistic possibility that he would go to a
Lithuanian movie. Okay.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, if that's the problem,
if that's the problem, the words that capture that
problem, are their words "realistic likelihood," not the
words "possibility." So if I have to choose between
those two, and that is the problem, why don't I choose
their solution?
MS. HARRINGTON: I guess in our view it's
less important which words you pick -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
MS. HARRINGTON: Than it is what they mean.
And, so, if by realistic -- realistic probability or
realistic likelihood -
JUSTICE BREYER: They use realistic
likelihood and if someone were to tell me in my odd
example there is no realistic likelihood he would go to
a Lithuanian movie, that seems to describe perfectly
whether I would or would not say in trying to prevent
him from going to the movies, you try to prevent him
from going to a Lithuanian movie. And your -- yours
doesn't -- I mean it's a -- I agree it may not make that
much difference, but we have to choose some form of
words.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Understand this, you mean
it would have been okay if he went to a Lithuanian
movie?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: No, it wouldn't have been
okay, but you don't normally say of a person when a
thing is really weird, but he wants it to happen that
doesn't do it for that -- it's so unlikely. I shoot an
arrow into the air hoping it will fall on my enemy. All
right? It's not going to. But if it does, we say he
intended it. You see, that -- that's the kind of
linguistic problem that I think is present.
MS. HARRINGTON: Right. And it's not -- it
doesn't perfectly map on to the problem in this case, of
course, because there is subsection (g)(2), which
specifically says you take intent out of the equation.
And, so, I'll concede it's an awkwardly constructed
statutory provision. But I think the important -
JUSTICE BREYER: It's not awkwardly
constructed. It's trying to get odd possibilities, and
if it is trying to get those odd possibilities about
which we normally would say he did intend to prevent
that from happening, then those things we're trying to
leave out are those where there is no realistic
possibility that they would happen.
MS. HARRINGTON: I would agree with that, so
what we would like -
JUSTICE BREYER: Then let's take their
words.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, we -- again, it
depends what it -- what you mean by realistic
possibility or likelihood. If you mean more likely than
not, then we would say that's too high a burden on the
government. We want to include odd possibilities but
not outlandish possibilities.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure I
understand your answer to Justice Kagan's hypothetical.
We -- we -- there's no proof that this particular
officer who was shot was going to pick up the phone to
the FBI. He may have overheard this. He would have
called his fellow officers, and somebody, probably his
supervisor, or the DA's office was going to make the
decision whether to call the FBI. So, how is that
different from the cemetery caretaker, who is going to
call it in probably to 9-1-1, and he doesn't
particularly have an idea of who's going to get involved
or not because it's really not his issue. Why is there
a difference between those two situations? And isn't
the question, going back to what Justice Breyer asked,
was, what's the likelihood that this is going to get
investigated by the Federal Government? Why is it
reasonably possible? Anything is reasonably possible -
or almost anything.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, I mean, we -- we
attach the word reasonably to possible to sort of to
wall off cases that are theoretically possible, right?
So again, we would like to cover odd occurrences but not
outlandish occurrences, so it's not just anything that's
possible. It's -- the jury has to have a reason to
think it might have happened in this case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So I guess then your
burden is only to show that it's a Federal offense,
because why you need to show anything else because
"reasonably possible" encompasses every single Federal
offense or anything that could be termed a Federal
offense.
MS. HARRINGTON: With respect, Your Honor,
we don't -- we don't think that's correct. I think
there needs to be a reason for the jury to think that if
this communication had not been prevented, the
information eventually would have gone to Federal
officers. The reason -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But why isn't that
-- maybe I asked this already, but why isn't that the
case when you're dealing with the Federal offense?
MS. HARRINGTON: Because, the reality is
that not information -- that all local law enforcement
officers share every piece of information about Federal
offenses with -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, but there's a
possibility.
MS. HARRINGTON: There's a possibility, but
I think -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A realistic
possibility.
MS. HARRINGTON: And again that's -- if
that's how the Court wanted to go, that's something the
government could live with. But -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did you say before that
-- that presenting this to the jury; everybody's worried
about what the jury will think; that when Gamble came
and confessed, the local official went to -- to the
Federal? I think we were told that there was a year
lapse between when the local police knew about Gamble's
confession and when -
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, there's a 10-month
lapse between when Gamble went to the local law
enforcement officers and when Gamble testified before
the Federal grand jury. So presumably the Federal -
the AUSA was brought in sometime in that 10-month
period. So, it wasn't that long a lapse.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you know what the
difference was between the State and the Federal
penalties?
MS. HARRINGTON: I don't know the
difference. I mean, Gamble when he was -- hew was
indicted eventually for 14 Federal offenses to which he
pled guilty and was sentenced initially to life plus 107
years. Some of the -- some of the crimes for which he
was indicted could not have been prosecuted in State
court; but presumably he could have gotten a life
sentence for murdering a police officer if he had been
prosecuted in State court as well.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So Ms. Harrington, suppose
Officer Horner had come to the scene and instead of
seeing evidence that there was a robbery about to occur,
had seen evidence only of drug use. Now that might be a
Federal offense, but typically it wouldn't be prosecuted
in -- in a Federal court. Would you say then that the
statute is not satisfied?
MS. HARRINGTON: No, we would say it is
satisfied if everything else was the same.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Because?
MS. HARRINGTON: Because it -- it's still
information relating to the commission or possible
commission of a Federal offense, we still know that
Officer Horner definitely would have transmitted that
information to local law enforcement officers, and we
still know that when local law enforcement officers
later got the information, they would -- they
transmitted it to Federal -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Oh, but that's 4 years
later. That was way past the time when this incident
occurred.
MS. HARRINGTON: It's true. And just to be
clear, we're not saying that that communication that
happened in 2002 is the communication that was prevented
or intended to be prevented. What we're saying is that
the fact when local cops got the information in 2002,
they shared it with Federal officers, that that's a
reason for the jury to infer that they would have done
the same thing if they had gotten the information -
JUSTICE KAGAN: You're saying the fact that
they got this information 4 years later, shared it with
law enforcement officers after they knew that a murder
had occurred as a result of an incident would be the
same kind of inquiry that they would make at that time?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, I think -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Before the murder?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, of course, we don't
know what would have happened, because Officer Horner
was murdered to prevent any of this from happening, but
in fact, the evidence before the jury suggested that it
wasn't the murder that motivated them to share the
information with Federal officers; it was one of the
underlying robberies. It was the robbery of the Holiday
Inn, which was a Federal offense. The statute of
limitations had run on that in State court, and so they
wanted to -- but they wanted to maximize the amount of
charges they could bring against Chris Gamble. And so
they decided to share that information with Federal
officers.
So it wasn't the murder that made the
difference; it was one of the underlying Federal
offenses that was charged against -- as one of the
predicate crimes against Petitioner here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would -- would you not
acknowledge that the statute is vague enough that the
intent which it requires could be either the intent to
prevent testimony from being given to a particular
Federal proceeding or to a particular Federal officer or
the specific intent to withhold it from a proceeding or
an officer who happens to be or which happens to be
Federal, but which the defendant is not aware is
Federal? It could bear that meaning, couldn't it?
MS. HARRINGTON: It could, but Justice
Scalia, I want to point out that subsections (A) and (B)
of (a)(1), those are the provisions that talk about
official proceedings. Subsection (a)(1)(C), which is
the provision that's at issue here, does not talk about
official proceedings. It talks about transferring
information to Federal -- to law enforcement officers or
to judges. And so there doesn't -- I think by -- just
by reading, sort of a plain reading of those provisions
together means that for subsection (C), you don't need
to have an official proceeding that was in anyone's mind
or that was underway at the time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I acknowledge that, but
a particular judge or -- or the conduct of a Federal
proceeding, it could -- it could require specific intent
of a proceeding or a judge or an officer which happens
to be a Federal officer.
MS. HARRINGTON: It could, yes, and again, I
think if the defendant has a Federal officer specific
intent in mind when he commits the murder, that's
enough.
JUSTICE ALITO: So if a defendant has in
mind a particular officer, then there's a potential
violation of the statute, but if the defendant just
kills for the purpose of preventing this from going to
any Federal -- any officer who might happen to be a
Federal officer, then there's no violation under this -
under this reading of the statute?
MS. HARRINGTON: No, there is -- there is
violation, if there's a reasonable possibility -
JUSTICE ALITO: Under the interpretation
that's been suggested to you, that would be the
distinction?
MS. HARRINGTON: I'm not -- I don't mean to
give that -- this is a case where there's not a specific
Federal officer intent. I may have misunderstood the
question as it was put to me.
If there's no specific Federal officer
intent, but you can prove that there's a reasonable
possibility that one of the communications prevented by
the murder would have been with a Federal officer -
JUSTICE BREYER: I think the question was.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's unfair for him to ask
you what my -- what my hypothetical was. I think the
answer is yes.
MS. HARRINGTON: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Crawford, you have 7 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN M. CRAWFORD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CRAWFORD: Justice Kagan, if I could go
to a question that you posed: If this Court were to
find that the mere presence of a possible Federal
offense was appropriate to give Federal jurisdiction
under this particular statute, then I would ask the
Court to consider the effect that that would have on
criminal practice throughout this country.
There is significant overlap between Federal
and State criminal laws, and if we are simply going to
confer Federal jurisdiction on this particular statute
because of the mere possibility of a Federal offense,
you have created a huge exception and, we would
respectfully submit, create problems for that delicate
balance between State and Federal.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What's delicate about
robbery? I mean, robbery is completely a Federal crime,
and that was what the -- that was what Horner observed,
and they were -- they were planning for the robbery the
next day.
MR. CRAWFORD: Justice Ginsburg, we would
agree that bank robbery is a Federal crime. The
question is: Is there any evidence in the record that
would show there was going to be any Federal involvement
in that Federal crime? Every day, Federal crimes are
prosecuted in the State system under their State crimes,
but absent some Federal involvement, you have
obliterated that line between State and Federal criminal
practice, and that is too broad, or that, we believe,
upsets this delicate balance that we must maintain.
If I could, I want to go to Lithuania and
suggest this.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm slightly regretting
bringing that up.
MR. CRAWFORD: There have been a number of
cases cited at the Circuit Court level that give
examples of how the government can meet their proof, and
quite frankly, it's not difficult. In Romero, there is
a Federal -- ongoing Federal law enforcement official
investigation going on, so if there is an ongoing
Lithuanian movie -
JUSTICE BREYER: You agree basically on the
point?
MR. CRAWFORD: I do.
JUSTICE BREYER: I think where you have -
where somebody tries to prevent a general thing, we
normally say you also prevent -- tries to prevent those
things that are specific that fall within the general
term, but not every oddball example.
MR. CRAWFORD: Exactly.
JUSTICE BREYER: And what you want is
something that rules out the oddball examples. And your
words are "reasonable likelihood," and you'll say if
it's an oddball example, you can't hold him guilty of
that, if it turns out that in this case the Federal
example is an oddball example.
My question really is to you: If you win on
that, then are you going to go back and argue there was
not one piece of evidence whatsoever that there was any
reasonable likelihood that the Feds would investigate
your case?
MR. CRAWFORD: We would argue that there
is -- the record is insufficient to establish reasonable
likelihood of Federal involvement. And I can't put it
any better than that.
Thank you, Justice Breyer. Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:17 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
56:18 33:14 34:8 35:9 asking 6:3 11:12 behalf 1:15,19 calculating 10:11
34:10 Alito's 6:5,16 Assistant 1:17 23:24 53:23 40:1,2 46:16,18
11:10,14,19 assuming 11:8 believe 4:14 5:17 called 46:14
52:11 amount 51:7 attorneys 20:10 Bell 19:4,15 caretaker 46:17
announced 23:4 authored 19:6 23:19 56:12 14:22 17:14
14:6 17:16 35:6 15:6 20:12 32:1 12:18 13:5,11 24:7,14 26:8
1:14 a.m 1:13 3:2 21:9,13 23:15 56:2,8,16,17
B 51:25 45:17 46:1,22 37:10,12 41:6
19:8,13 46:22 56:5 55:17,23 56:13 cause 36:8 41:12
backing 4:25 brief 4:10,20 caused 41:18
10:5 20:21 briefs 5:1 cell 42:5,8
ballpark 36:18 bright-line 23:1,4 42:5 46:17
17:19,25
44:21
54:19
3:3,7 37:20,22 38:9 broad 20:19 16:18
23:16,23 54:19 38:21 55:1 certainly 20:9
barking 12:22 broadly 40:21 38:7
25:11
basis 32:20 34:9 change 35:5
10:7 11:5
18:4,10
commission confession 48:18 50:23 25:10 29:15,17
16:5 commits 52:18 connection 6:15 21:24 22:5,10 40:10 54:14,19
common 24:8 consider 54:4 24:1 29:19 54:22
32:3 40:13 consistent 3:21 33:23 48:10 crimes 17:1 18:5
47:21 communicate consistently 3:16 49:9,11,17 51:6 19:11 31:23,24
53:20 8:13 conspiracy 19:12 53:25 54:4 55:8 31:25 32:1,9
communicated constructed courts 11:2 22:9 41:16,21 49:7
42:13,21 construction cover 47:5 criminal 3:15
4:12 5:8,25 6:2 7:3 contacted 14:21 Crawford 1:15 37:11 40:14
5:25 8:12 9:6,6,12 contemporane... 2:3,9 3:6,7,9,22 54:5,7,25
22:1,3 9:16 11:23 13:9 37:11 4:4,8 5:17 6:20 criminalizes 40:6
55:8 15:13 16:25 contention 38:16 7:1,9,16,20 8:1 custodian 41:24
28:8,15 29:3 convenience 11:11,15 12:1 D
26:19 33:5 34:19 35:2 conveyed 26:16 13:16,20 14:6 DA 33:25
35:10 36:5 conveying 18:7 14:17,25 15:4,7 darn 40:14
40:8,8 42:24 38:17 17:8,19,25 18:9 DA's 46:15
34:5 confer 20:14 19:19 creative 18:20 5:16,19,24 7:4
49:13 54:8 country 54:5 crime 6:8 10:12 10:11,13,22
28:5,14 13:25 48:15 26:23 45:13 19:7 20:13,14 15:12 16:6,8,8
26:1 27:3
34:18 16:12 22:9 16:12 24:11,14 7:23 16:10 feature 15:10
36:2 24:22 25:24 30:16 32:7 37:5 56:10 32:7
51:22 27:16 29:4 38:4,6 41:7 eventually 5:14 Federal 3:15
33:16 34:17 elements 12:8,18 47:19 49:5 4:15 5:8,9,10
40:3 differently 34:5 Eleventh 3:17,25 48:13 6:18 7:8,8,23
16:12 difficult 28:19 20:18 22:1,3,16 16:11,16 19:8 10:5,12 11:1
41:7 55:10 eliminate 17:22 19:13 22:2 23:5 12:12 14:2,11
disclosure 29:17 47:12 38:11,16 42:10 17:11,18 18:2,2
49:25 dispatch 39:24 6:7,11,14 7:8 exactly 33:15 20:2,6,11,13
district 21:18 23:11,12 24:10 55:21 56:1,3,3 26:6,10,16,20
43:15 30:11,12,25 exception 54:10 29:18,19,19,23
46:4 12:19 13:5,11 40:2 41:17 31:9,17,19,20
drug 32:1,12 47:25 48:21 fact 9:14 12:13 32:16,19,22,25
English 25:18 50:12,16 51:1 34:19,20 35:11
26:22 E 1:17 2:1,6 3:1,1 enter 22:16 16:20 17:7 37:4,11,15,16
35:23 23:23 entirely 39:1 factually 3:18 37:22,23,25
easier 19:23 erred 3:25 falls 28:3 39:4,5,6,7,12
easy 37:7 41:10 error 21:1,3,5,24 fall-back 23:13 39:13,16,19
37:1 42:7 efficiently 36:2 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 25:16,20 26:11 40:24 41:10,12
46:21 either 7:7,15 8:3 2:6,9 26:12 27:23 41:19,20,21
51:12 36:19 51:17 essential 7:11 28:9 33:22 34:2 42:17 46:24
12:11 7:10 12:16,17 establish 3:13 38:10 39:3 47:23 48:1,16
15:10 46:13,16
49:1,5 frankly 20:23 18:15 19:25 half 11:22 higher 4:13
21:18 55:10 20:5 23:10,13 handle 20:10 hijacking 10:12
51:3,5 friend 25:9 25:15,20 27:1,3 happen 19:17 19:19 20:2
friendly 41:2 27:6 28:21 27:4,6 41:23 25:10
52:5 future 8:12,13,16 31:15,17,21 45:5,23 52:24 Hobbs 18:18
8:20 9:6 13:9 34:24 39:11,24 happened 14:8 hold 18:12 56:1
53:9,11 39:24 40:1,2,19 27:8 28:11,12 holding 18:17
54:1,2,6 G 41:8 43:16,19 28:12,25 31:7 Holiday 51:4
g 3:1 5:18 6:12 43:20,20,21 35:2,24 36:5,20 Hollywood 43:19
9:15 16:14 26:5 44:19,20 45:8 41:25 47:8 homework 43:16
55:11 26:19 30:15 46:12,15,17,19 50:10,24 honestly 34:24
56:2,11 31:2 45:13 46:22,23 52:23 happening 35:22 Honor 3:24 7:9
51:8 38:19 49:9 52:14 47:15
gather 31:9 government 3:12 2:6 23:22,23,25 22:25
19:15 14:7,14,24 36:1,4,19 38:1 30:2,8,19,23 41:23 42:8,12
29:1,5 48:12 54:13,18 38:7 46:7,24 31:12,18,23 49:13,25 50:24
give 10:9 11:2,25 48:11 55:9 32:5,11 33:1 54:15
42:12,19 40:19 51:18 21:17 45:11,24 46:3 11:10,14,17
giving 36:1,7 granted 21:3,21 47:2,15,24 48:5 25:8 27:12 28:8
48:10 53:24 44:8 47:9 hear 3:3 illustrates 43:13
22:19 goes 16:11 37:25 guilty 49:6 56:1 23:1 immediacy 14:13
10:20 12:12,24 H 46:6 important 4:14
17:10,14 Haines 39:25 41:13 42:6 43:5
45:16 insufficient 38:11 20:22 34:7,13 35:3,5
intend 5:7,24 investigation 10:23 11:3 13:7 43:12 44:2,10
29:12 45:9 24:4 37:16 37:21 38:23 49:12,21 50:5
7:7 14:1 6:25 7:1,10,23 involvement Justice 1:18 3:3 55:5,14,17,23
17:23 8:4 9:3,5 11:12 19:25 20:15,17 3:9,21 4:4,8 5:6 56:13,14,15
24:10,12 12:10,14,16 23:11 54:21,24 6:2,4,5,16,24
32:18 15:24 16:12,24 56:11 7:4,12,13,17 K
24:9,24 26:2,6 issue 16:15,15 7:21 8:2,9,18 Kagan 4:4,8 9:10
38:13,14 26:9 27:6,21,25 22:2,6 24:7,14 8:25 9:10,20 9:20 19:16 20:4
41:12 28:6,8,10,15 27:4 35:14 10:7 11:4,4,10 24:18 41:22
42:13 28:17 30:16 37:10 46:20 11:13,14,18,18 42:7 49:12,21
47:19,25 31:13 34:14,16 52:3 12:4,21 13:10 50:5,16,22
49:23 50:1 34:18,23 35:10 13:13,18,23 53:24
35:12 39:10,10 J 14:7,14,24 15:2 Kagan's 46:10
52:5 42:24 43:8 jail 16:22,24 17:2 15:5,9,19,23 keep 20:21 27:23
interest 37:15 21:11,19 52:12 19:16,25 20:4 27:11,18,21
interpret 10:4 judicial 30:18 26:14,24,24 killed 7:18,22,24
17:13 30:3,12 jurisdiction 10:6 27:21 28:1,7,18 29:16 35:17
33:2 interrupted 34:6 54:2,8 30:14,20 31:8 killer 29:13
22:16 introduce 38:5 33:16 40:13 32:21 33:3,14 12:9 14:9 35:21
leg 36:3 lot 9:24 39:20 52:9,18 needs 19:1,2
50:18 let's 10:10,10,12 lower 11:2 52:21 20:18,22 26:22
15:12 level 55:8 M missing 12:5 47:17
28:21 liable 40:17 M 1:15 2:3,9 3:7 misunderstood negative 15:24
30:17,17 life 49:6,9 53:22 53:9 Neither 21:1
35:15 likelihood 4:9 7:2 maintain 4:14 modified 9:7 never 27:3,6
39:23,25 7:14,17,19,21 55:2 modifying 4:2 33:18
8:5 9:1,25 11:6 man 1:3 27:13,14 mom 10:16,25 new 22:10 39:15
42:19,20 11:21,22,24 27:15,16,18 morning 3:4 43:21
49:3,24 13:11,19,22 35:7 mother 10:14 nexus 24:6,11,14
19:24 29:22 map 45:12 motivated 51:2 41:10
35:16 March 1:9 14:18 movie 43:19,20 nobody's 12:22
limitations 51:6 56:18 movies 43:17 number 14:7
44:1 45:2 36:14 54:25 32:14 murder 17:10
6:7,11,14 listening 27:14 mean 7:14 8:2 29:1,12 31:7 O 2:1 3:1
9:12,13,14 27:19 9:21 29:8 30:11 34:11 37:10 obligation 37:19
11:1,7 Lithuania 55:3 30:23,25 31:2 39:21 50:18,22 obliterated 54:25
15:1 Lithuanian 43:21 37:2 41:5 44:11 51:2,11 52:18 observed 54:15
17:1,17 43:25 44:17,20 44:21,24 46:4,5 53:14 obviously 6:5
18:7 44:25 55:13 47:2 49:4 53:7 murdered 41:9 32:3
20:15 little 36:11 54:14 50:25 occur 7:14 49:14
23:11,12 live 30:3,6 48:11 meaning 6:12 murdering 49:10 occurred 24:17
25:1,2,2 lived 39:14 51:23 murders 29:9 29:1 50:7,19
26:17 local 13:25 14:10 means 52:8 41:15 occurrences 47:5
30:11,11 14:15,16,18 meant 31:1 47:6
31:3 33:16,17,20,25 measure 37:18 N occurring 16:4
35:17,18 33:25 38:8,13 meet 19:14 23:6 N 2:1,1 3:1 odd 43:23 44:15
41:2 42:14,15 55:9 narrow 20:21 45:18,19 46:7
40:2 42:21 47:25 men 25:9 narrowly 3:16 47:5
42:14,15 48:15,17,20 mens 5:19 24:6,8 natural 25:25 oddball 55:21,24
47:25 50:1,2,12 31:4 nature 28:17 56:1,3
50:1,2,18 long 48:24 mere 4:3 5:3 19:2 31:3 34:20 odder 43:12
55:11 look 28:22 36:25 20:19 23:9 54:1 need 3:23 12:13 offense 5:9,9
34:10 36:8 38:9 17:11 phone 42:5,8 29:2 31:16
31:4,9,20 38:13,15 40:3 overrule 22:15 46:12 33:23 35:1
47:10 41:17 42:15,16 phrase 5:1 36:21 43:24
42:18,22 46:14 P pick 9:24 10:3,7 44:5 45:23 46:5
51:5 47:20 48:1,21 P 3:1 44:9 46:12 48:4,5,8 53:3
50:1,2,13,18 page 2:2 4:10,10 piece 48:1 56:6 53:13 54:9
49:5 51:13 officer's 26:6 park 25:9 27:12 places 4:13 4:24 5:2,9,13
55:11 22:23 28:9 29:5 planned 17:1 37:24 46:25,25
6:14,15,15 14:11 20:6 41:3 37:2 38:20 39:6 planning 10:11 49:23 54:1
7:23,25 Oh 21:13 30:5 39:7,11,12 40:8 18:11,12 25:9 potential 19:3,12
48:3 50:5 52:11 41:8,9 46:11 54:16 52:21
14:9,17 okay 27:1 35:3 51:18,19 52:12 plausible 4:6 practice 54:5
16:4 37:8 43:25 52:21 54:3,8 please 3:10 24:1 55:1
17:2,3,4 44:25 45:4 particularly 26:25 precedent 3:20
18:8 old 43:20 16:22 46:19 pled 49:6 preclude 6:6
25:1,2 omitted 17:18 penalties 49:2 plot 10:14 precludes 5:18
Once 14:8 penalty 8:22 plus 49:6 predicate 32:13
one-tenth 10:15 people 12:10 point 13:2 22:23 51:14
ongoing 5:22 41:15,25 23:13 43:2,13 prediction 27:7
28:7,10 55:11,12 percent 10:16 51:25 55:15 presence 19:3
29:3,20 opinion 3:17,22 11:22 pointed 20:1 54:1
30:11 19:4,6,14 21:21 percentage 32:8 police 13:25 present 45:10
opposed 26:16 perfectly 44:17 14:16,16,19 presented 42:10
32:25 32:9 36:16 45:12 29:20 40:1 presenting 48:13
opt 36:22 period 6:12 48:17 49:10 President 20:2
35:11 options 36:22 17:24 48:24 poor 21:7,15 presumably 31:1
38:25,25 oral 1:11 2:2,5 person 5:20 7:18 posed 53:25 31:5 48:22 49:9
3:7 23:23 7:22,24 8:6 positing 30:13 prevent 5:8,24
40:20,24 order 4:14 8:14 9:11,16 17:21 position 8:10 6:1 7:24 9:5,7
41:10,23 10:17 19:8 18:8,15 25:15 15:10 21:2,4 9:12 10:17
41:16 25:18,20 29:16 23:8,14 15:13 16:25
49:10,13 ordinary 43:11 29:22,23,24 possibilities 24:9,25 25:15
50:24 outlandish 46:8 31:21 35:17 45:18,19 46:7,8 26:2 28:8,15
52:14 47:6 38:24 39:11,22 possibility 4:3 29:17,25 30:21
overbroad 23:9 39:25 40:9,24 5:4 9:25 10:1 35:10,22 40:7
53:9,11 overheard 46:13 42:20 45:4 20:19 22:11 41:16 42:24
overlap 54:6 Petitioner 1:4,16 23:9 24:15,19 43:8,16,18,19
53:23
45:20 19:20 24:8 32:8 question 5:12 6:5 19:18 21:4,20 25:20 38:9
51:18 33:22 42:2,2 6:16 7:5 9:21 45:5 46:20 56:4 reported 14:11
prosecutions 9:22 11:5,11,19 reason 30:19 14:12
50:10,11 prosecutor 13:24 22:20 26:15,20 42:22 47:7,17 41:18
prosecutors 14:2 36:5 38:3 41:1 47:20 50:14 require 5:24 9:16
10:19 29:18 14:3 53:10,15,25 4:17,17,19 7:14 52:13
52:23 protect 11:5,19 54:20 56:4 7:17 8:5 9:2 required 4:15
34:3 37:15 41:20 questions 20:24 24:15,19 27:7 24:14 51:17
protection 36:7 40:22 28:13 29:2,22 requisite 27:25
prove 3:12 12:3 21:18 55:10 34:12 35:1,16 respect 5:20
22:23 16:13 24:5 25:5 R 55:25 56:7,10 15:20,25 31:14
44:2,3,4,6 25:24 26:6,7 R 3:1 reasonably 5:2 47:15
34:17,21,25 raised 22:2 36:13 37:24 respectfully
39:4,5,6 53:12 31:4 reasons 21:7,17 2:7 23:24
proved 12:13 read 11:8 25:25 REBUTTAL 2:8 result 11:10,11
52:9 16:8 29:4 30:13 33:6 53:22 11:12 27:16
proven 13:5,11 40:21 record 20:16 50:19
provide 9:24 26:1 30:9,9 56:10 reverse 21:24
37:1 provision 45:16 reads 30:14 relate 24:12 31:6 18:25 26:12,18
55:9 52:3 real 23:4 related 7:7 17:23 29:9,14 30:19
17:15 43:14 53:10 26:14 28:1,2,5 24:25 42:14 robberies 20:11
25:16 56:11 28:20 33:23 reliability 11:13 37:20 38:10
32:1,9 puts 5:25 43:24 44:4,12 remaining 53:21 51:4
37:3 49:8 p.m 56:17 44:12,13,14,16 remand 22:10 robbery 14:20
54:23 45:22 46:4 48:7 remember 4:23 20:12 34:1
qualify 18:18 10:25 36:13 remove 29:12 51:4 54:14,14
16:5 34:11 36:22 sir 23:18 4:9,11,17,19 step 30:10 42:19
31:8 42:15 sitting 25:9 4:24 5:4 8:14 STEPHEN 1:15
32:3,6 section 3:14 24:2 situation 16:20 9:9 10:3,8 13:7 2:3,9 3:7 53:22
47:21 24:9,23 25:1,3 situations 46:21 17:13 19:7,14 stool 8:3
53:20 25:4,25 26:1,19 slightly 55:5 20:19 22:8,10 stop 6:11 7:6
see 25:13 27:10 Solicitor 1:17 24:19 28:2,13 12:11 39:10,11
send 17:2 18:8 someday 33:12 state 10:5 12:12 struggling 9:8,18
SOTOMAYOR 29:24 32:1,9,17 56:16,18
set 10:8 19:6 27:10 36:11,24 54:12,23,23,25 51:25
42:17 50:13,17 sought 18:1 24:3 statute 3:15 4:1 sufficiency 16:16
50:9,11,16 shoot 27:15,23 42:17 9:23 10:4,8,22 23:5 36:7 38:17
10:15 shot 46:12 speaks 5:6 12:7 17:5,9 suggest 55:4
30:15 show 23:11 33:4 specific 26:2,6,9 18:19 19:9,21 suggested 51:1
47:10,11 54:21 27:5 28:6,10,10 24:4,23 25:17 53:5
8:2,9,18 31:10 35:10,11 42:23 27:24 29:6 30:3 supervisor 46:15
13:10,13 shows 20:16 51:20 52:13,17 30:13,14,15,24 support 19:20
17:16,20 side 12:7 53:8,11 55:20 32:20 33:7 suppose 13:23
29:7,11 significant 3:11 specifically 3:20 34:18,22,25 13:23 26:24
30:5,14 54:6 26:3 28:7 34:19 37:4 39:2,16 27:11 43:6
33:3 significantly 4:1 39:3,5 45:14 40:6,17,21 42:3 49:12
38:18 similar 3:18 20:4 specifies 24:24 49:18 51:5,16 Supreme 1:1,12
40:11 25:8 25:4 52:22 53:1 54:3 sure 18:17 28:16
51:15,25 simple 6:8 speculate 37:21 54:8 46:9
53:16 simply 5:15 spoke 25:18 statute's 6:5 suspect 40:11
55:18 true 26:13 33:10 9:18 11:1 20:20
25:23
16:14 10:20 11:4,5 11:2 24:21 38:19 39:14
44:8
13:10,13 17:16 41:11 44:18 whatsoever
20:6 21:9 28:18,23 30:2 Tuesday 1:9 56:6
45:14 46:1 31:10 32:6,12 turn 10:17 25:13 willing 16:2,5,7
18:22
25:21,24
27:24
37:13 38:22 twice 18:2 witness 6:6,10
34:17,21
53:3
33:18 43:5,12 45:10 25:9,24 27:12 37:19 40:16
45:16 47:8,16 33:15 34:16 41:8,15
25:12 48:14,16 50:21 44:6 46:21 W 40:13
29:8,11 52:6,17 53:15 typically 49:16 wall 47:4 witnessing 39:22
44:15 thought 15:23 51:4,12 wanted 43:16,18 25:18 47:3
30:1 told 48:16 unfair 53:16 27:18 48:24 world 12:9 26:21
53:19,20 trial 21:6,10 upsets 5:5 55:2 29:4 34:17 38:16 40:3,3
25:17 35:15 urge 10:2 weird 35:14,20 42:22 45:3
47:4 trials 34:1 35:14 U.S 14:21 33:22 went 30:10 44:25 written 6:6 30:24
27:19 35:7 23 2:7
1:9
2:4
38:19 41 4:10
49:7 50:5
5
2:10
10:16 11:22 7
24:23 7 53:21
52:1,2
4:20 5:1
4:20 5:1
48:19
46:18
42:6
1:5 3:4
49:6
1:13 3:2
56:17
4:20 5:1
49:5
17:13 22:5
24:2,9
15:20
25:1
4:10
3:14
14:18
26:5,19 31:2
14:19
38:19
14:19,24,25
50:10,12
15:7
1:9
39:14
