IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MENACHEM BINYAMIN ZIVOTOFSKY, BY :
HIS PARENTS AND GUARDIANS, ARI Z. :
AND NAOMI SIEGMAN ZIVOTOFSKY, :
Petitioner : No. 10-699
v. :
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON, SECRETARY :
OF STATE :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, November 7, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
NATHAN LEWIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
NATHAN LEWIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 23
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
NATHAN LEWIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-699, Zivotofsky v.
Clinton.
Mr. Lewin.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NATHAN LEWIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. LEWIN: Mr. -- Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
In its recent decisions in Medellin v. Texas
and in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, this Court approved and
applied the familiar tripartite scheme that Justice
Jackson articulated in the Steel Seizure case. When the
President takes measures incompatible with the expressed
or implied will of Congress, his power is at its lowest
ebb. In that instance, said Justice Jackson, his claim
to a power at once so conclusive and preclusive must be
scrutinized with caution to preserve the equilibrium
established by our constitutional system.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Lewin, what power
is Congress exercising here?
MR. LEWIN: Justice Kagan, Congress has
exercised its power over passport -- the issuance of
passports under the immigration, naturalization, and
foreign commerce powers that Congress has. It has
enacted passport legislation back in 1856, in 1926. It
can control what the contents of a passport ought to be,
what its duration may be, how the application is to be
made. And we say this is an identification -
JUSTICE ALITO: But do you think -
MR. LEWIN: -- portion of the passport.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think it's relevant
that the title of section 214 is "United States Policy
With Respect to Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel"?
MR. LEWIN: Well, we think -- and we've
cited I guess in footnote 2 of our brief a number of
recent cases of this Court that have said that you take
each statutory provision independently and determine its
constitutionality. True, Congress has a broader view
with regard to the policy of Jerusalem being part of
Israel than the executive branch has had since 1948.
However, that purpose is not determinative of what the
constitutionality is of subsection (d). Moreover -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you say, Mr. Lewin,
that -- you're not claiming exclusivity in Congress.
You say foreign relations is a shared power. So, if it
is a shared power, why does Congress trump the
executive?
MR. LEWIN: Because -- precisely because
under the standard of the Steel Seizure case and this
tripartite scheme, if Congress determines that what the
President has done -- and this is a statute which is
really very narrow and deals with past conduct by the
executive branch, as it were. It does not hobble the
President in terms of future foreign policy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, under your -- under
your theory -- and this is just following on Justice
Ginsburg's question, I think. Under your theory, what
foreign relations determinations are for the President
alone to make?
MR. LEWIN: Foreign relations determinations
are not left to the President alone.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there any foreign
relations determinations that are for the President
alone to make under your theory of the case?
MR. LEWIN: Yes, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And those are?
MR. LEWIN: Those are diplomatic
communications. In other, it's the President who
makes -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In other words, who gets
the telegram or something?
MR. LEWIN: Well, who issues the
communication to the foreign government, who
determines -- there are certain things that the
President alone does because he's the one who implements
foreign policy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there any treatise
writer or decision of this Court that supports such a
narrow, crabbed interpretation of the President's
foreign affairs power?
MR. LEWIN: Well, with all respect,
Justice Kennedy, we don't think it's crabbed. We think
that that is exactly what Justice Jackson was referring
to, and that's what this Court has said in the Medellin
case and -- and in Hamdan as well, that if -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Of course -
MR. LEWIN: Congress does not authorize -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- in part the Jackson
tripartite division, this famous division he had, I
think assumes the validity of the congressional statute
at the first step of inquiry. And here that's the whole
question.
MR. LEWIN: I don't know whether it's
limited to the assumption with regard to the
congressional statute. If Congress says, as it did in
this case, we disapprove of the State Department's view
that passports should not contain the -- the
identification of Israel for people who were born in
Jerusalem, that is Congress disapproving of what the
State Department and past State Department policy has
been.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Lewin, you were cut
off earlier when you were saying this reading doesn't
hobble the President in the future.
It says anybody born in -- in Jerusalem can
have Israel listed, correct? What happens if there's a
peace accord tomorrow, and Israel gives up any claim to
sovereignty over Jerusalem? Is the President free to
stop listing Israel on the passport?
MR. LEWIN: If -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or does he have to wait
for Congress to change the law?
MR. LEWIN: I think he does have to wait for
Congress to change the law.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you are hobbling the
President with respect to situations that occur
frequently -
MR. LEWIN: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- as happened in Egypt,
sometimes overnight.
MR. LEWIN: No, but it may in some way, in a
very remote possible way -- I mean, I think under those
circumstances, if there were a peace treaty and if
Jerusalem were handed over to a Palestinian state, I
think Congress would repeal the statute.
That's the point. Congress has the power,
has the authority under the Constitution to enact laws,
and it is Congress that makes the decision even with
regard to foreign policy issues.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The Constitution
requires ambassadors to be appointed with the consent of
the Senate. It gives Congress the power of the purse.
So, why don't -- why isn't the better view that we let
Congress express its approval and disapproval in the
mechanism set up by the Constitution to do so? Meaning,
if the President recognizes a country that Congress
doesn't want it to recognize, it can withhold approval
of an ambassador. It could refuse to fund the embassy.
It could do many other things.
But what entitles Congress to trench on a
presidential power that has been exercised virtually
since the beginning of the country?
MR. LEWIN: With all respect, Justice
Sotomayor, I think history demonstrates that that's
simply not true, that in fact Congress has had equal,
quote, "recognition power," if in fact that's a power
rather than a ceremonial duty. We have in our reply
brief gone through the fact that from Presidents Monroe,
Jackson, Taylor, Lincoln, and even at the time of
President McKinley, Congress said: We have the
authority to be recognized -- to recognize.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Lewin, this gets back to
the question of exactly what congressional power you're
basing your argument on. You started by saying you were
basing it on Congress's passport power, which is a
function of its control over immigration issues. Now
you're saying Congress has a co-equal recognition power.
Which is it, or is it both?
MR. LEWIN: No. It's in the alternative,
Justice Kagan; it is both. We submit first of all there
is no exclusive recognition power in the President, if
there is a recognition power, and we spell that out.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does that go the full
length of saying if Congress passed a law that says the
United States recognizes Jerusalem as the capital of
Israel and Jerusalem must be designated as the capital
of Israel in all official documents -- suppose that were
the law. I take it, from everything you've argued, your
position would be, yes, Congress has that authority.
MR. LEWIN: We say Congress has that
authority, but I have to add, Justice Ginsburg, that
Congress has been very careful in the past and we
believe it will be in the future to give the President
broad authority. To the extent Congress has tried to do
that, Congress has consistently said that the President
can waive the moving of the embassy to Jerusalem,
because Congress recognizes -- this is one of these very
rare situations where Congress has said what the
President has done and what the Department of State has
done is simply wrong.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Lewin, you're -- it
seems to me you're not arguing for a co-equal
congressional power; you're arguing for a superior
congressional power. You're saying whatever Congress
says, the President has to comply with. Now, that's
quite different from saying that they both have
authority in the field. And if they both have authority
in the field and they're exercising it in different
fashions, I frankly would not be inclined to intervene.
I would let -- I would let them conduct the usual
inter-branch hand wrestling that goes on all the time,
which probably means that if Congress cares enough,
Congress will win because, as you say, it has an
innumerable number of clubs with which to beat the
executive.
But if -- if the power is a co-equal power
and they're both exercising it in a -- in a different
way, why don't we just, you know, let them go at it?
Why is it any of our business which is the better
foreign policy position?
MR. LEWIN: We are not -- the Court is not
being asked to determine what is the better foreign
policy position. Congress has determined and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Congress is supreme, then?
That is your position. Not -- not that Congress has
co-equal authority with the executive, but Congress is
supreme.
MR. LEWIN: No, there's two aspects to this,
Justice Scalia. One is the recognition power. As to
the recognition power, if it exists, Congress has it
together with the President. But with regard to foreign
policy and with regard to the question of whether
Congress can trump the President, this is not a new
proposition. The Court determined it in the Steel
Seizure case. The Court more recently, in -- in
approving Justice Jackson's tripartite scheme, approved
it in Medellin v. Texas.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, Medellin
involved a situation where the President's purported
exercise of authority changed domestic law, and not
simply domestic law, but domestic State law. That seems
to me to be quite a distinguishable circumstance.
MR. LEWIN: But what -- again, what Justice
Jackson said was that when there -- the two are
incompatible, then you look, the Court looks and
scrutinizes, "subjects to scrutiny" -- those words are
in Justice Jackson's standard -- scrutinizes what the
President has done.
And we submit in this case, if the Court
were to look at the answers to the interrogatories in
this case, what is the basis for the President's policy,
if one scrutinizes it, we say in our brief, it's -- we
call it trivial because what happens is the Department
of State has said -- and, again, this is important in
terms of this statute. All that happens with this
statute is that 50,000 American citizens have the same
passport as 100,000 other American citizens who were
born in Tel Aviv or Haifa. It just says "Israel"; it
doesn't say "Jerusalem, Israel"; it just says "Israel."
And the State Department says that's justified because
Arab countries or Palestinians may be upset if they
misperceive -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- so, you're
suggesting that the outcome of this of case would be
different, from your perspective, if Congress said you
have to say "Jerusalem, Israel."
MR. LEWIN: I say it's a different case,
yes, absolutely. In this case, what -- the important
thing about this case and this statute is that it gives
the individual passport holder a choice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is it -- why is
it a different case?
MR. LEWIN: It's a different case because if
it were to say "Jerusalem, Israel," there would be more
of an argument. Again, I'm not saying I would be here
acknowledging that that's impermissible. But there
would be more of an argument that it appears to be some
official approval of Jerusalem being in Israel.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, would there be
-- there would be a greater concern -- the concern on
the part of the executive that there would be adverse
political reaction would have a greater degree of
credibility?
MR. LEWIN: Somewhat greater degree.
Again -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And so, we're
supposed to decide whether or not the executive is
correct in saying that it's a significant problem. And
he says, well, he says that, but we know foreign policy
better; we don't think it's going to be a big deal.
MR. LEWIN: No, I don't think the Court is
being asked to decide a question of foreign policy.
Congress has decided that saying "Israel" alone does not
present a foreign policy issue. Congress recognized
that, with moving the embassy, there might be a foreign
policy issue. So, they said that the President can
waive that.
With regard to this provision, Congress has
said, no, there's not likely to be any foreign policy
harm. And all that the Court is being asked to do is
it's being asked to enforce the congressional
conclusion, which is, we submit, exactly what the third
level under Justice Jackson's test is: That if, in
fact, Congress decides that what the President has
concluded or the executive branch has concluded is
wrong, it may -- and it has the constitutional power to
say -- with regard to foreign policy, we can exercise
our determination.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't see Justice
Jackson's analysis -- what he's saying -- and I guess I
don't think it's as controlling as others might. He's
saying when there's a conflict, it's a harder case.
MR. LEWIN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When there's -- when
they agree, it's an easy case. When you can't tell,
it's sort of a middle case. I don't see how that's very
helpful in resolving the dispute before us.
MR. LEWIN: Well, because he says that when
it's in the third category, the Court has an obligation,
under those circumstances if it's going to keep the
equilibrium of the balance of powers, to look at what
the President's justification is.
The word "scrutiny" is in there. That's not
simply a phrase that Justice Jackson has taken out of
the air. He says you're supposed to scrutinize it. And
if you scrutinize it in this case, there's nothing other
than the possibility that there would be a misperception
by Palestinians. That's what the State Department is
saying.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what were we
scrutinizing in the Steel Seizure case?
MR. LEWIN: I think in the Steel Seizure
case, the Court was scrutinizing whether -
notwithstanding the fact that Congress did not give the
President the power to seize steel mills, nonetheless
whether there could be some justification that, even in
-- contrary to Congress's wishes, the President would be
able to exercise that power.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And what presidential power
would have supported that, the war power?
MR. LEWIN: Well, possibly the claim that as
Commander in Chief under -- in the time of the Korean
War he would be able -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right, because he was
claiming that the Korean War -
MR. LEWIN: Entitled him -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- required that these -
that these companies remain in business. And I guess we
did scrutinize that. What did we conclude, that that
was -
MR. LEWIN: And I think the Court concluded
that, no, that that did not justify the exercise of the
President's power even though it was -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that wasn't a case -
that wasn't a case in which the Congress had said you
may not seize mills. And that's what your case is. So,
there's a difference.
MR. LEWIN: Well, but that's -- that's an a
fortiori situation, Justice Kennedy. If Congress didn't
even say you may not seize steel mills, but simply
because they didn't give the President affirmatively the
authority -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It -- it is if you assume
that the statute is valid.
MR. LEWIN: Well, but the statute in this
case -- again I come back to the fact that the statute
in this case is a passport statute.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If the statute is -- if
the statute is invalid, we're in category one.
MR. LEWIN: Yes, but -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or two.
MR. LEWIN: But the statute in this case is
a -- on its face, a passport statute. There's no
reason -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But it's a passport statute
that -
MR. LEWIN: It's an identification.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry. It's a passport
statute that seems to have nothing to do with the
immigration functions that passport statutes usually
serve. It seems to have everything to do with
Congress's declaration of a foreign policy, as opposed
to Congress's exercise of power relating to immigration
control. So, convince me that I am wrong on that.
MR. LEWIN: I think you are wrong on that,
Justice, and let me explain why.
(Laughter.)
MR. LEWIN: Let me explain why. Because it
is clear from the history of this line on the passport
that it is purely an identification of the individual;
it is not an exercise of any foreign policy. Indeed,
the passport statute itself says that a passport is "any
travel document issued by competent authority showing
the bearer's origin, identity, and nationality." And in
this case, the history of this line on the passport
demonstrates, I think conclusively, and the State
Department has acknowledged it, that it is purely a
means of identification.
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you suggesting -
MR. LEWIN: And what Congress has said is,
with regard to these citizens, we will permit them to
identify themselves, like Congress permitted the
Taiwanese to identify themselves.
JUSTICE ALITO: But are you suggesting
Congress enacted this because they thought that if these
individuals' passports simply said "Jerusalem," there
would be an identification problem?
MR. LEWIN: Not be -- Justice Alito, it's
not because there would be an identification problem.
But there was -- Congress recognized that with regard to
the 50,000 people who have a passport that says
"Jerusalem," they are being denied a certain sense of
self-respect that they feel they should be able to have
in terms of their own identification.
This is not a statute that's designed to
create some political brouhaha or -- or make a foreign
policy statement. It's a statute that, frankly, fits in
with what the State Department does in accommodating to
individual passport holders. The State Department says
if you're a Palestinian or an Arab and you were born in
Haifa and you don't like seeing "Israel" on your
passport, we'll allow you to eliminate "Israel" from
your passport. And all that Congress has said is -
JUSTICE KAGAN: That might be true, Mr.
Lewin. I think you would have a better argument if this
statute said if you were born in Jerusalem, you can pick
anything you want in your passport; you can pick
Jerusalem, you can pick Israel, or you can pick
Palestine. But the statute in fact doesn't say that.
It says you can pick Israel.
So, why isn't that a statement of foreign
policy as to recognition that Jerusalem is the capital
of Israel, as opposed to what you're characterizing it
as, which is a freedom of -- you know, a sort of choice
provision?
MR. LEWIN: I think that's -- what you said
the statute doesn't say, Justice Kagan, is exactly what
the statute does say. The statute does say that the
individual passport holder can choose to say "Israel" or
can keep it as "Jerusalem," and if he's born before
1948, he can say "Palestine." So, it is an individual
choice.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you have to be very
old to say "Palestine."
MR. LEWIN: Pardon? Pardon?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not all that old.
(Laughter.)
MR. LEWIN: It's -- I guess it's a
reflection on my own seniority that -
(Laughter.)
MR. LEWIN: -- it's my generation that fits
into that. But -- but the fact is exactly; our point is
that that's all that the statute does. The statute is a
means of permitting self-identification by an American
citizen who says: My birth in Jerusalem, indeed in West
Jerusalem, which has always been recognized to be part
of Israel -- I want to call -- I want my passport to say
"Israel."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it's recognizing
that principle only with respect to a particular
jurisdiction. An American citizen born in Northern
Ireland doesn't have this option, because he thinks
that's part of Ireland.
MR. LEWIN: No, but an American citizen born
in Taiwan apparently does have that option, even the
though the United States says we don't recognize Taiwan
as an independent country.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And your -- and your
friend on behalf of the United States says that's
because of a State Department judgment that in one
situation, it's significant; in the other, it's not.
MR. LEWIN: Well, it's -- no, it's not just
because. It's because what happens is there is a
recognition in both cases that it is a personal
identification choice with regard to what goes on the
passport. Sure, in that case, the State Department
didn't take it to litigation, although I submit that had
they chosen to litigate that case, they would have a
stronger position than they have in this case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But a personal
identification choice can also have significant foreign
policy implications, can it not? Is -- is that an
either-or situation?
What the State Department is saying is to
allow this particular personal identification choice may
antagonize some foreign nations that we don't want to
antagonize.
What if they gave them the choice of saying
"Israel, the only democracy in the Middle East"? Okay?
That's their choice. They can have that on their
passport. Would that be okay?
MR. LEWIN: I have to say that, given this
Court's view about Congress's power with regard to (a)
passports -- and again, I go back to the fact that in
Zemel v. Rusk, in Haig v. Agee, in Kent v. Dulles, in
all these passport cases, this Court said we look to see
whether what the President does is authorized by
Congress, whether implicitly or otherwise. So that, I
submit, that with regard to passports, you need the
congressional authority, whether it's implicit or
express.
And with regard to your question,
Justice Scalia, yes, Congress could in an exercise of
its passport authority say here is what the passport has
to say. It would be a foolish statute. But this Court
has said, and I think you, Justice Scalia, have said it
many times, it's not the Court's job to determine
whether Congress is foolish or not. If Congress decides
that, look, somebody born in Israel, a passport should
say "Israel, the only democracy in the Middle East,"
Congress can say that. Congress has passport authority.
And this -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Lewin, I take it from
what you -
MR. LEWIN: -- and this has to do with the
contents of the passport.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What you've argued is
that you're skipping over the question that the D.C.
Circuit decided. I take it your view is it's not a
political question; so, the Court should resolve the
merits.
MR. LEWIN: Our view is it's not a political
question because it is like many other questions that
affect foreign policy. And the Court said in Baker v.
Carr, not every decision that touches on foreign affairs
or foreign policy is a political question that can't be
determined. It -- it -- arguably, according to the
Government, this affects foreign policy. We say it is
simply Congress having passed a statute which either is
unconstitutional -- we say it is constitutional -
either is unconstitutional or the Court should simply
enforce it, like in the Japan Whaling case.
In the Japan Whaling case, this Court
rejected the claim that the outcome of a determination
by the Court might very well affect foreign relations,
and it said it's not a political question.
I'd like to reserve the remaining time for
rebuttal. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Lewin.
General Verrilli.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
The executive has determined that the
passports it issues should not identify Israel as the
place of birth for persons born in Jerusalem.
Petitioner seeks relief under section 214(d) that would
countermand that executive judgment. But under the
Constitution, that is an exercise of the executive's
exclusive recognition power. The Constitution commits
that power exclusively to the executive, and neither a
court nor the Congress can override that judgment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your friend -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What of all the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your friend
documented contrary history at some length in his reply
brief, where from the beginning at least, as he says,
through the McKinley Administration, the two branches
acted as if they had co-equal authority.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, if I
might spend a minute or two on that history, because I
don't think it shows what my friend suggests that it
does.
Before getting to the starting point of that
story, which I think is the Monroe administration, I
would like to point out that in the Washington
administration, the President confronted the question
with respect to whether to recognize the revolutionary
government of France. And President Washington
consulted with his cabinet, and, of course, his cabinet
included Jefferson and Madison and Hamilton and Jay.
And they decided that this was a power that was
exclusive to the President to such an extent that they
didn't even need to send a message to the Congress that
they were going to recognize the new revolutionary
government in France.
Now, the second fact that I think is
critical as a matter of history is that there is not a
single piece of legislation that has passed both houses
of Congress and come to the President purporting to
recognize a foreign nation or a territorial boundary of
a foreign nation.
JUSTICE ALITO: Has there ever been an
instance in which the President has recognized a foreign
government over Congress's sustained objection?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't -- I can't think of
an instance of Congress's sustained objection. I think
probably the closest we would come is the revolutionary
government of Mexico, which President Wilson first
recognized on a de facto basis in 1915 and a de jure
basis in 1917. Congress indicated displeasure with
that. President Wilson sent his message to Congress
saying that this is an exclusive executive function.
Congress backed down.
JUSTICE BREYER: What are then the reasons
that -- because your friend says that this is an a
fortiori case from everything, because all of these
words -- every time the word "exclusive power" has
appeared in any source -- I think that's what you're
saying -- it is meant that the President can act without
supporting authority from Congress. But there never has
been a case or a suggestion that the President can act
where Congress has legislated to the contrary. Now, I
think that's the -- that's the argument. And so, what
-- I would like to hear what you have to say about that
argument.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. Yes, I will answer
that question directly.
JUSTICE BREYER: Uh-huh.
GENERAL VERRILLI: It is true that the Court
has never before, with respect to the recognition power,
confronted the question of whether the President is free
to act in a manner different than a congressional
command because Congress has never purported to issue a
command. That does not mean, however, that my friend is
correct that this is a situation in which Congress has
the authority to countermand or direct the decision of
the President.
This is, we submit -- even if one thinks
about this as a Youngstown category three case, this is
a Youngstown category three case of the kind that
Justice Jackson identified in footnote 4, where he cited
Myers v. The United States. The kind of case in
category three of Youngstown, in which the President's
judgment can prevail even over a contrary judgment of
Congress, is a case in which the President has exclusive
authority.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now -
GENERAL VERRILLI: And that is this case.
JUSTICE BREYER: But my question is, what
leads you to that conclusion?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, let me -
JUSTICE BREYER: What are -- there are very,
very few cases I can ever think of where -- where the
President -- where the Court has said the President can
act contrary to a statute. And so, the point of my
question was to get you to talk about -
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- why, even though this is
a fortiori.
GENERAL VERRILLI: So, I do think, if I
could -- I think it would be helpful in answering your
question, Justice Breyer, if I could return to the Chief
Justice's question about history. Moving beyond that
initial recognition by Washington that this is an
exclusive power, which I think is quite significant,
when we get to the Monroe administration, there is a
fight between Clay and Monroe about whether the
President has exclusive authority to recognize the new
South American republics.
Now, a couple of points there. I think the
-- what -- the only thing that one could point to as an
action by the Congress that even implicates the
recognition power is one house of Congress passed an
appropriations measure for an ambassador. What the -
the history treatise, the Goebel treatise that my friend
cites, says on page 133, the very page that he cites in
his reply brief, is that Clay's effort to contest the
President's exclusive authority came to a, quote,
"inglorious end," unquote.
He then goes on to say -- my friend goes on
to say, well, but a year later when President Monroe
sought to actually recognize these South American
republics, he asked -- he asked the Congress to join him
in it. What he asked Congress for was an appropriation
for an ambassador. But it was not the sending of an
ambassador to the Republic of Colombia that was the
recognition. It was when President Monroe received an
ambassador from Colombia that constituted the
recognition, and that was an exclusive act that he
undertook without any consultation with Congress.
Now -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The two examples that are
given in the brief, one of Texas, where Petitioner says
there was a case where Congress went first -- Congress
recognized and the President acquiesced, and the same
thing with Taiwan; it was a statute and the President
implemented it. So, if the -- Congress thought it had
the authority, the recognition authority, in those two
measures, and the President acquiesced.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I'd like to address Texas
because I do think that's probably the most significant
example that my friend's identified. But even there, I
think if one works through the history, we'll see that
it's an exclusive executive power.
President Jackson, in his first letter in
1836 to the Congress, says essentially: I hear you; you
think we should recognize Texas. And then he says:
It's an open question as far as I am concerned whether
there's exclusive authority or not. It's not been
something that the legislature has ever studied, but as
a matter of expediency, he says, we don't need to
resolve that question, because I want to work with you.
He then goes on to caution the Congress to not move too
quickly for fear of precipitating war with Mexico, which
I think, Justice Breyer, I'll try to return to a
functional analysis later, and that's, I think, an
important point.
What -- then -- but I think what's
important, Justice Ginsburg, is that what Congress did
next was to pass two appropriations measures, one in the
House, one in the Senate. Each of those measures
appropriates funds for an emissary to the Republic of
Texas, but each includes language that says: At such
time that the President determines that it's appropriate
to do so.
If one looks at the page in the
Congressional Globe that my friend cites, one will see
that that language was added because, as originally
introduced, the appropriations riders were objected to
by members of Congress on the ground that they infringed
on the President's exclusive recognition authority.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, if I could
stop you and just have you address the political
question doctrine.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You say this is
exclusively committed to the President, and, therefore,
it is a non-justiciable political question. How is that
different from saying it's our job to decide cases, it
is justiciable, and then you can argue that the answer
of that analysis is that it's exclusively committed to
the President? I don't understand why labeling it a
political question advances the analysis much.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think we agree,
Mr. Chief Justice, that there isn't a very great deal
of difference. We acknowledge that in conducting the
political question analysis, that it is for the Court to
decide whether there's a textual commitment to the
executive; it is for the Court to decide the scope. We
think that's what Nixon v. United States says; it's what
Powell v. McCormack says; and that in answering those
questions, we think that the Court will have gone a very
long way to determining the question of the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why not all the way? I
mean, if the Court decides that the Constitution commits
this authority exclusively to the President, then it's
all over. That's the merits of the case: Does the
President have this authority? So, the political
question label seems to be kind of a -- a subterfuge
because if there is a textual commission -- commitment
to the President, that's the end of the case.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, the -- I do think
that with respect to the first Baker v. Carr factor,
textual commitment is a factor that the Court has
indicated is one that can lead to the conclusion that
it's a political question.
I do think that the Court has to go through
the analysis. And so, at the end of the day, there may
not be very much of a difference --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, doesn't it depend on
what the question is? In order to decide whether it's a
political question, you have to identify the question.
Now, if the question is whether the President has
exclusive authority with respect to the formal
recognition of a foreign country, that might be one
thing. But what if the question is whether the
President has exclusive jurisdiction with respect -- has
plenary authority, unreviewable authority, with respect
to anything that the President thinks has a bearing on
the question of recognition.
Now, if that's the question, is that
committed exclusively to the President?
GENERAL VERRILLI: No, Justice Alito, we
don't -- we think Powell v. McCormack and Nixon say
that the question of -- not just the question of
commitment, but also the question of scope, are questions
for the Court to decide.
And we do think, with respect to the
question here, that even though it's for the Court to
decide, it's for the Court to decide with a very
significant measure of deference, because when -- the
decision by the executive with respect to how it's going
to handle the status of Jerusalem in passports is a very
sensitive and delicate matter. This position was
arrived at after very careful thought, and it is
enforced very carefully. And I think from that should
come the lesson that this -- and the reason is because
the executive believes that the statement on the
passport has to be understood as a manifestation of the
President's exercise of the recognition power.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, suppose this, General
Verrilli: Suppose that this statute -- there was the
section that's there now, and then there was another
section, and the section said: The recording of Israel
as a place of birth on a passport shall not constitute
recognition of Israel's sovereignty over Jerusalem.
Would that be constitutional?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I -- I don't think it
would change the analysis, Justice Kagan. I -- I think
-- of course, that is not this statute, which has a title
which says "United States Policy With Respect to
Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel." But -
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, my statute has a title
which says "Identification of Persons Born in
Jerusalem."
GENERAL VERRILLI: I still -- I still think
that would be within the scope of the executive's power
to decide because the content of the passport, insofar
as the Executive believes that it constitutes an
expression of -- of an incident of recognition, is a
judgment that the executive makes.
Now, the Court can review that, but the
Court's review of it should be done with a significant
measure of deference as the Court suggested in Regan v.
Wald. Now -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, what is -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That seems to me different
than the rationale of the D.C. Circuit. It seems to me
you're not defending the rationale of the D.C.
Circuit -
GENERAL VERRILLI: No -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- that there's no
jurisdiction.
GENERAL VERRILLI: No, we -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And, you know, it's -
it's always awkward for us to tell counsel what's in
their best interest, but -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it does -- it does
seem to me that your position would be much stronger if
you said there is jurisdiction, and the President wins.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, we think -- we do
think that if there is jurisdiction, the President wins.
But we do think that the D.C. Circuit acted
appropriately in finding that -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because if this -- if this
rationale remains the law and is the law, then you have
the specter of constant legislative determinations that
are not clearly -- not clearly invalid. And it seems to
me that's, again with all due respect, not in the best
interest of the ultimate argument you're making.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, we appreciate that,
Justice Kennedy. We do think that in resolving a
political question -- in conducting a political question
analysis, the questions that the Court would need to
decide under Nixon and Powell would go a very long way
to clarifying that problem.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if Congress's
statute said what you must put on the passport, if
requested, is "Israel," parentheses, ("Disputed"), close
parentheses? Which would seem to take care of your
objection that people are going to look at this and draw
a false conclusion.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't think that changes
the analysis, Mr. Chief Justice, because I think that
that -- the -- to the -- because it would -- that would
be again Congress seeking to direct a judgment of the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It is the position
of the administration, isn't it, that the status of
Jerusalem is disputed?
GENERAL VERRILLI: That's correct, Mr. Chief
Justice, but it -- what the United States says about
that in official communications -- and remember, a
passport is not a communication by the passport holder.
It's an official United States document that
communicates the position of the United States.
That's -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, what if Congress
says, in the place that you have it, this person has the
choice of whether or not to put "Jerusalem" or "Israel"?
This doesn't affect whether the United States recognizes
Jerusalem as part of Israel or not; it's just his
choice. Same problem?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Same problem, Mr. Chief
Justice. This is -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Really?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your
argument was that someone's going to look at that and
say that -- that offends me, that you're calling this
part of Israel. That was the foreign policy
significance. And I tried to give you a hypothetical in
which nobody could reasonably draw that conclusion, and
you say still, same thing.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I do think that this is an
area in which the executive's got to make the judgment
because it's of paramount importance that the nation
speak with one voice.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then -- General Verrilli,
then you are taking the position that this is not a
shared authority; it's an exclusive authority, that
there is no role for Congress. Am I right? Or is there
some role in recognition for -- for Congress?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Our position, Justice
Ginsburg, is that the recognition power is exclusive to
the President.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if -- what if the
recognition of a breakaway province of a foreign country
by the United States will clearly provoke a war with
that country. Would Congress have the power to decree
that the President shall not recognize that breakaway
province, knowing -- knowing that if he does recognize
it, that country will declare war on the United States?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think, Justice Scalia,
that's a situation in which the President would exercise
that recognition power very carefully -
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no. We have a foolish
President.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Contrary to our entire
history, we have a -
(Laughter.)
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think -- although I
don't -- I just don't think that in a situation like
that, the President would exercise a recognition power,
but if -- but if the President did, it's the President's
judgment to make.
And I -- Justice Breyer, if I could get back
to your question, in addition to the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Please stay on this.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I am -- I am willing -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Our cases say repeatedly
that the President is the sole instrument of the United
States for the conduct of foreign policy, but to be the
sole instrument and to determine the foreign policy are
two quite different things. To say he's the sole
instrument simply means that congressmen traveling
abroad or globetrotting ex-presidents -- nobody except
the President of the United States pronounces the
foreign policy. But it doesn't necessarily mean that
the President determines everything in foreign policy.
He's the instrument, but there is certainly
room in those many cases for saying that Congress can
say what the -- what it's -- what the country's
instrument is supposed to do.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I -- I think with respect to
the question of recognition, Justice Scalia, that it is
a power that rests with the executive. And I think in
addition to the history, in that we do -- now in
220-plus years in our Constitution, do not have a single
example of Congress actually exercising the power, and I
think in addition to the history, there are very good
functional reasons why that is so.
And I think, Justice Breyer -- in answering
your earlier question, I think those are significant.
The exercise of the recognition power depends, we think,
on three things that make it clear that it needs to be
exclusive. The first is timing; the second is
expertise; and the third is a need for secrecy.
Timing -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I didn't hear the third.
GENERAL VERRILLI: The need for secrecy.
Timing is -- I think the Israel example
shows, is of critical importance. But it's not just
speed. Of course, Congress can't act with the dispatch
needed in a situation like the recognition of Israel.
But the -- but apart from that, recognition -- a
recognition that occurs too soon could send events in a
direction that could be very disadvantageous to our
foreign policy. A recognition that comes too late
could -- could squander an important opportunity in the
national interest in the foreign policy realm.
JUSTICE KAGAN: General Verrilli, is the
textual basis for your argument that the President has
exclusive power here? Is it the Receipt of Ambassadors
Clause alone, or is it something else? Because I was
frankly a little bit surprised that your brief put so
much weight on that Receipt of Ambassadors Clause, which
arguably was meant to give the President a purely
ministerial function and so little weight on any other
power that the President has.
GENERAL VERRILLI: So -- here's our position on
that, Justice Kagan: We do think that the Reception
Clause is the source of the recognition power. Hamilton
identified it as the source of the recognition power in
the Washington administration. I think it's now
understood that it's hornbook law that that's the
textual source, but to the extent that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's the best there
is.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, if you've got to
cast about for something, I suppose -- I don't know what
else you'd -- you'd land upon.
GENERAL VERRILLI: It is there.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it is there. It
doesn't say a whole lot.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And in addition -- I would
say in addition, to the extent there is a question, we
do think, as I think we indicated in our brief, that -
that one can see this power as part of what the Court in
Garamendi described as the vast share of responsibility
that the Constitution assigns to the executive. Now, we
don't think all of that shared responsibility is
exclusive to the executive, but we think this
responsibility is exclusive.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, if that provision were
not in the Constitution, would you be making the same
argument you are now?
GENERAL VERRILLI: If the Reception Clause
were not in the Constitution, but we had the same history
that we have now and the same functional considerations
about the need for it being in the control of the
executive, yes, we would.
JUSTICE ALITO: There are many things that
Congress could do to frustrate the President's decision
to recognize another country. Now, would you say all of
those are unconstitutional? They all infringe the
President's exclusive recognition authority?
Suppose the President decides to recognize a
country, and Congress refuses to appropriate any money
for an embassy there or refuses to confirm any U.S.
ambassador to that country. Those presumably would not
be unconstitutional, would they?
GENERAL VERRILLI: The -- I think that there
would be a difference between -- I -- I think that -
that Congress has authority over appropriations.
Congress has authority to appoint ambassadors. It's
entitled to exercise that authority, and it's entitled
to exercise that authority even if it's in tension with
the President's recognition decision.
It is the position of the executive, though,
that there could be circumstances in which Congress
could try to exercise its appropriations authority in a
way that would preclude the executive from exercising
its -- its recognition power, and that -- the executive
would in some circumstances believe that it had the
authority to move ahead despite those actions by
Congress.
But, of course, this is not a situation in
which Congress has passed a sense of the Congress
resolution about what it thinks. It's not a situation
in which Congress has exercised attaching conditions to
its spending power about what private parties do. This
is an effort by Congress to regulate the content of a
passport, which, as the Court recognized in Haig v.
Agee, is a core instrument of diplomatic communication.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that's an
exclusive power, to -- to determine of the contents of
passports? Hasn't Congress exercised that authority -
GENERAL VERRILLI: We -
JUSTICE ALITO: -- for a long time.
GENERAL VERRILLI: We don't think that the
entire content of passports is an exclusive power. I
would -- and I'll explain, Justice Alito, where we think
the line is. But before doing so, I do want to push
back a little bit on the notion that Congress has for a
long time exercised authority over the content of
passports.
The first Passport Act was in 1856. What
this Court said in Haig v. Agee was that the enactment
of that statute merely confirmed a power that everyone
understood to be inherent in the executive. That
statute did not purport to regulate the content of
passports. It, in fact, said that passports shall be
issued under such rules as the President shall
proscribe. And -- and in Haig, that was that language,
I think, that led the Court to conclude that this was a
confirmation of the executive's authority and an action
in aid of that authority. Now -
JUSTICE BREYER: I just want -- I don't want
the time to elapse. You can finish that if you'd like.
I'd just like somewhere a few words about the political
question, which you don't believe in. From reading your
brief, I would say you don't believe in it much. And my
question on the political question for either of you is
this: that -- that this is an area of foreign affairs.
It's an area of -- of, you know, recognition. We know
that. Never has this Court or anyone else held that
Congress can go ahead in this area over a law passed by
Congress. But it is passports, which both regulate.
And our real problem is these are words that are
officially said and they are detailed words, and those
words may really disrupt coherent foreign policy.
Viewed that way, there are billions of words that might
have the same effect. And do we know that these words
will and some other words won't? No, judges don't know
that.
And, therefore, when you get into this area,
the best thing to do is avoid multifarious
pronouncements by various departments of government on
one question; do not respect the views of other
branches; and, judges, stay out of it. Let them work it
out by themselves.
I just want a word from either you and
really Mr. Lewin on -- on that.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. Well, we do think -
that's what -- we think that the appropriate inquiry for
political question purposes is into the relief that the
Petitioner is seeking and if the relief the Petitioner
is seeking would invade the kinds of judgments that the
Constitution commits exclusively to the executive. And
the reason it commits these kinds of judgments
exclusively to the executive is because this is a
situation in which multifarious voices are inimical to
the national interest.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that is still -
that's a merits determination. The whole question is,
who has the authority? And whatever label you put on
it, if you decide that the President has, as you just
said, the exclusive authority, that's the end of the
matter. It -- it's not leaving it -- it is not leaving
it, as Justice Breyer said, to the political branches to
fight it out between them. It is saying the President
has the exclusive authority.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I -- I think in -
in -- let me try to put it this way, Justice Ginsburg:
In the absence of section 214, I think it would be clear
from Pink and Belmont that this -- that the judgment on
recognition is exclusively committed to the executive,
and it would be a political question, if a party came in
and said I want my passport to say something different
about Jerusalem than it says, that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, the tension
that I see here, and I think it's what Justice Breyer
is getting at, is the label's important, because if we
call this a political question and don't address the
merits, the outcome is that the President is saying that
he's entitled to ignore the Congress. I don't know what
kind of message that sends, but it's a little unsettling
that a Court charged with enforcing the laws passed by
Congress are basically saying we're not going to
determine whether this law is constitutional or
unconstitutional. That's what your definition of
political question is becoming. And where does that
stop?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In what situations?
Only in foreign policy do we decide not to -
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think, Justice Sotomayor,
it's actually quite narrow, and the problem isn't a
significant one in the case of textual commitment,
because the Court does -- in reaching the conclusion, as
the D.C. Circuit did, that it's a political question,
the Court does have to decide whether there is a textual
commitment to the executive here. So, the Court would
resolve that question. The Court would resolve the
question of whether the conduct at issue here is within
the scope of that textual commitment. So, the Court
would issue those rulings.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And what you told -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's not what the
D.C. Circuit did.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You told -- you told
Justice Kagan that it didn't -- your position didn't
depend upon a textual commitment, that your position
would be the same if the Receive Ambassadors Clause were
not in the Constitution.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But I -- I didn't mean to
suggest it wouldn't be a textual commitment. It would
be -- it would be a commitment that one would read as
the historical gloss on the vesting power, which is what
Garamendi said.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That sounds to me
like not in the text.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think it's the
historical gloss on the vesting power. It is -- it
functions as the equivalent of the specific textual
commitment. Of course, we do have the specific textual
commitment here, the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: This textual commitment
applies when somebody comes to the Court and asks for
the Court to make the decision. If the plaintiff here
had come in and -- without a congressional statute to
rely upon, and had said, it is -- it is wrong for the
State Department not to let me say "Israel" on my
passport, then we would say, you know, textually
committed to the executive.
But this is a different situation where you
have a -- a dispute between the two branches, and where
that happens, I find it hard to say, well, you know, we
can't get into it because why? Because it's textually
committed to one of the branches? It seems to me we
have to resolve that question.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, as I said earlier
or I tried to say, we think that the -- the analysis
under the political question doctrine goes a very long
way towards answering that question, Justice Scalia. We
do think that this could be seen as a case like Gilligan,
in which looking at the relief that the petitioner is
seeking, the plaintiff is seeking, leads the Court to
conclude that this -- that -- that entertaining the
claim would embroil the Court in decisions that are
supposed to be made by another branch; and that, in
fact, I think you can understand section 214(d) as
precisely that, an effort to try to draw the Court into
this dispute between Congress and the executive over
whether section -- over whether Jerusalem should be
recognized as part of Israel.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I will give you a
couple more minutes. If my colleagues have any
questions?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, I -- I wanted to
follow up on that. Does -- does that mean you're
content to have this Court not say whether it's the
exclusive executive power or -- or there's some
congressional participation? I mean, if we just
abstain, if we just say it's none of our business, it's
none of our business; let you two guys fight it out -
that's not what you're asking us to do, is it?
GENERAL VERRILLI: That's correct, Justice
Scalia. It's not what we're asking -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're asking us to decide
the question that it is exclusively the presidential
power.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. That is correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't sound to me
like -- you know, like abstaining because it's a
political question. It seems to me like deciding the
case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you want to
answer?
GENERAL VERRILLI: We -- we do think that
the -- whether the Court is looking at it as a political
question or whether the Court is looking at it as a
judgment of the merits, the issue is textual commitment.
This is -- there is textual commitment. This is a
situation in which the country has to speak with one
voice, and the executive has determined what the country
should say.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Lewin, we'll give you 6 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF NATHAN LEWIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. LEWIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Let me begin my rebuttal by echoing really
what Justice Alito said during my colleague's argument.
The question is whether anything that the President
thinks bears on recognition, it forecloses this Court or
any court from making that determination?
This is not in our view a recognition case.
This is a passport case. The question is, what goes on
the passport, and may somebody self-identify? This
is -- again, if one looks at the statute, if one even
looks at the Foreign Affairs Manual, a passport is not
today considered a diplomatic statement; it's an
identification of a person in order to enable him to
travel abroad.
Now, again, let me also echo what the Chief
Justice and Justice Kagan asked during my colleague's
argument. If in fact the statute had said we don't say
Jerusalem is part of Israel, but you can identify
yourself as being in Israel, my -- we submit that result
can very easily be achieved and was achieved in the case
of Taiwan by a public statement by the executive.
Congress -- this law can be enacted. People
who were born in Jerusalem can have their passport say
either "Jerusalem" or "Israel." That's their choice.
Congress hasn't said it has to say "Israel." And then
the Department of State can issue, as it did in the case
of Taiwan, a public statement saying this is not
official American policy.
Nobody's asking this Court to decide what is
official American policy. Nobody is asking the Court to
decide what, as Justice Scalia said, would happen if
there were no congressional statute. In that case, it
would be a political question.
If my client had decided he wanted to have
his passport say "Israel" and he had no congressional
statute, and we brought the case to a court, the court
could say, no, you're asking us to decide what the
President should decide, what the Department of State
should decide.
But other than that, Congress has enacted
the law. The -- the fact is that with regard to this
legislation, it is a statute which determines personal
choice with regard to a passport. The case can be a
vehicle -- this case can be a vehicle for an
authoritative clarification of the roles of Congress and
the President in conducting the nation's foreign
affairs. If so, then we submit Justice Jackson's
statement, which acknowledges that Congress has the
final word in the third category, is one that should
control. But there are narrower grounds for enforcing
section 214(d) that do not implicate separation of
powers issues.
It's a passport law. It's within Congress's
constitutional authority on the cases that have
recognized that the President may not deny or restrict
passports without the express or implied approval of
Congress. That doesn't require the recognition or
involve the recognition of foreign sovereigns.
And the State Department's justification for
a policy that Congress has disapproved does not
withstand scrutiny. The Court merely has to look at the
record in this case in which the State Department has
said, look, we're concerned that there may be a
misperception of what this means. A misperception.
And it's extraordinary that on the basis of
the fact that there's an alleged misperception, American
citizens who have been authorized by Congress to say -
identify themselves on their passports as being born in
Israel will now find that statute nullified.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me -
let's assume that a dozen nations said this designation
on the passport is -- we view as an act of war; if the
United States is going to do this, we're going to view
it as an act of war. Would that then permit the
President to ignore Congress's statute -
MR. LEWIN: I think Congress has to weigh
that; and if Congress determines that in any event this
is what the passport should say, then that is
Congress -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, it's not the
misperception that's at issue.
MR. LEWIN: Well, in this case -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That misperception has
nothing to do with your argument.
MR. LEWIN: I -- I don't think that's true
because -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're going back to
Justice Scalia's point, which is what you're saying is
Congress dictates foreign policy in the end.
MR. LEWIN: In the end, if Congress
determines that what the President has said in this
context is wrong, yes. We live in a system under which
Congress passes the law, and the President has the
duty -- and I think Justice Scalia has said it, has the
duty to be the sole instrument of foreign policy. The
President speaks for the foreign policy that -- when
Congress authorizes him to do it, he may formulate it.
When Congress does not authorize him to do it, he may
formulate it. But when Congress disapproves of what he
does, then under Justice Jackson's test in the Steel
Seizure case, Congress prevails.
The fact that there is dictum in cases -
particularly Curtiss-Wright, which has not come up in
the course of the argument, but Justice Sutherland's
opinion in the Curtiss-Wright case in which he spoke
broadly of the President as being the sole organ of
foreign policy -- one has to say that the Harvard
professor Thomas Reed Powell, who used to tell his
students that just because Mr. -- Justice Sutherland
writes clearly, you must not suppose that he thinks
clearly.
(Laughter.)
MR. LEWIN: And we submit that is really
what it is all about.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I have just -- I have just
one question on -- on Washington's recognition of
revolutionary France. You cite in the reply brief the
fact that the administration was simply following what
it deemed to be a dictate of international law. Do you
want us to infer from that that he was not exercising a
real discretion there?
MR. LEWIN: Correct. The -- historians
who've studied that have determined that he was just
following Mr. Vattel, who said you had have to recognize
any country that has de facto control; and, therefore,
since the French revolutionists were in de facto control
of the French Government, Washington had no choice. He
was not exercising any kind of discretion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. LEWIN: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:06 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
advances 31:9 21:20 40:19 42:4 51:4 56:13
56:14
51:16 apparently 20:23 ARI 1:4 B 1:20 2:6 23:25
APPEARANC... arrived 33:11 back 4:2 9:4
appeared 26:9 asked 11:4 13:24 38:21 44:2
application 4:4 28:25 51:21 backed 26:4
applies 48:17 52:9,10,17 balance 15:3
appointed 8:8 aspects 11:10 basing 9:6,7
25:18 appropriately assumption 6:21 bearing 32:20
42:10 35:11 attaching 43:13 bears 51:10
appropriates authoritative beat 10:21
30:13 52:25 becoming 47:5
29:1,2,4 42:22 43:4 22:12,19 24:19 21:2 24:1 51:5
29:5
approval 8:11,14 26:11 27:2,12 believe 9:25 43:7
44:5 54:2
42:23 approved 3:12 29:14,25 30:22 believes 33:14
11:18 31:22,24 32:15 34:10
20:12,19 Arab 12:18 19:3 37:19 42:14,22 best 35:3,16 41:9
28:10,23 area 37:14 44:22 42:23,24,25 45:10
53:21 44:23,25 45:9 43:4,8,20 44:3 better 8:10 11:1
31:7,9,13 40:24 46:10 53:9 beyond 28:4
33:25 argue 31:6 authorize 6:14 big 13:22
41:18
36:8 49:6 argued 9:20 55:3 billions 45:5
50:17 arguing 10:9,10 53:22 birth 20:13 24:6
46:22
39:24 2:2,5,8 3:3,7 Aviv 12:15 bit 40:22 44:2
25:2
9:6 13:7,9 19:8 avoid 45:10 born 6:25 7:7
19:3,9,23 case 3:4,14 5:1 28:3 30:23 31:2 clearly 35:15,15 concern 13:12,12
22:17 5:16 6:12,23 31:11 35:24 38:2 55:15,16 concerned 29:24
34:5 52:3 11:17 12:6,8,21 36:1,8,11,14 client 52:14 53:18
12:24,25 13:1,4 36:21 37:2,4,6 Clinton 1:8 3:5 conclude 16:6
49:14 15:15 16:12,13 51:2,6,20 56:9 clubs 10:21 14:12 16:8
46:8 17:5 18:3 21:9 choice 13:2 colleagues 49:21 27:16 32:6 36:6
49:3 21:11,12 23:15 19:17,25 21:8 colleague's 51:8 37:11 47:13
27:5,6,8,11,14 36:23 37:1 52:4 Colombia 29:2,4 conclusively
32:2 47:12 49:9 choose 19:22 25:15,23 33:13 conditions 43:13
30:6 38:21 50:15 51:12,13 chosen 21:11 48:19 55:8 conduct 5:4
44:16 51:25 52:6,12 Circuit 23:2 comes 40:15 10:17 39:4
52:16,23,24 34:19,21 35:10 48:17 47:18
24:17 55:6,10 56:11 circumstance 26:25 35:20 53:1
29:9 56:13 11:24 Commander confirm 42:17
41:20 cases 4:13 21:7 circumstances 15:24 confirmation
55:22 22:4 27:19 31:5 7:25 15:2 43:3 commerce 4:1 44:14
50:3,4 caution 3:19 30:4 20:22 50:21,22 4:21,23 5:2
changed 11:22 claiming 4:21 49:3 10:11,19,20
19:15 34:3 19:16 52:25 communication 13:25 14:1,5,11
12:20 13:3,11 41:4 42:5 48:2 communications 19:6 22:6,11,16
15:24 20:17 Clay's 28:18 companies 16:5 23:12 24:12
28:13 23:13 33:23 6:11 11:3,16,17 52:19 designation 54:1
47:3 53:9 12:2,6 13:23 decided 13:25 designed 18:23
constitutionality 14:7 15:1,15 23:2 25:7 52:14 despite 43:8
30:4,10 4:15,19 16:8 22:4,13 decides 14:11 detailed 45:3
36:10,21 consultation 29:6 23:3,7,14,16 22:16 31:21 determination
38:3 consulted 25:5 23:18 24:3,12 42:15 14:15 23:17
40:10 contain 6:24 26:20 27:20 deciding 50:14 46:3 51:11
content 34:9 31:13,15,18,21 decision 6:5 8:5 determinations
43:15,24 44:3,9 32:5,8 33:3,5,6 23:8 27:2 33:8 5:10,12,15
49:25 34:13,15 35:21 42:11 43:1 35:14
45:1 contents 4:3 41:21 43:16 48:18 determinative
47:2 22:24 43:19 44:6,13,24 47:1 decisions 3:11 4:18
52:2,5,20 contest 28:18 47:13,15,16,17 49:13 determine 4:14
53:3,12 context 54:22 47:19 48:17,18 declaration 11:4 22:15 39:5
54:6,7 contrary 15:19 49:11,13,16,25 17:15 43:19 47:3
24:16 26:13 50:19,20 51:10 declare 38:6 determined 11:5
27:10,21 38:13 51:11 52:9,10 decree 38:3 11:16 23:10
9:5 17:17 42:8 53:5 Court's 22:1,15 defending 34:20 determines 5:2
14:8 56:5,6 34:14 deference 33:7 6:1 30:15 39:11
26:23 controlling 14:18 co-equal 9:9 10:9 34:15 52:22 54:7,21
48:19 convince 17:17 10:23 11:8 definition 47:4 determining
52:12,15 core 43:17 24:19 degree 13:14,16 31:19
27:1 36:14 50:6 create 18:24 democracy 21:22 dictates 54:19
17:15,16 counsel 30:23 critical 25:13 demonstrates difference 16:15
25:20,22 35:2 51:2 56:9 40:9 8:21 18:4 31:12 32:10
53:8 54:5 countermand Curtiss-Wright denied 18:20 42:21
country 8:13,19 7:2,2 10:6 12:24 13:4,5
24:9,10 course 6:13 25:5 decide 13:19,24 6:23 53:14 directly 26:18
39:20 34:1 40:10 31:5,14,15 depend 32:11 disadvantageo...
42:3,6 43:10 48:14 32:12 33:3,6,6 48:1 40:14
48:3 55:9 34:9 35:22 46:5 depends 40:1 disapproval 8:11
14:13 3:12 4:13 6:5 52:9,11,17,18 designated 9:18 disapproved
echo 51:20 20:10 exercising 3:22 finish 44:17
49:17 44:21 45:15 28:9,19 29:5,20 43:25 following 5:8
eliminate 19:5 41:25 42:1,14 expression 34:11 footnote 4:12
embroil 49:13 exclusively extraordinary foreign 4:1,22
enable 51:18 32:23 45:22,24 ex-presidents 5:25 6:3,7 8:6
enacted 4:2 exclusivity 4:21 13:24 14:1,2,6
23:15 14:12 24:4,8,11 14:11 15:16 23:9,11,18
23:25 enforcing 47:1 31:15 33:8,14 20:10 22:2 32:16 37:9 38:1
49:12 43:2,5,6 44:8 52:21 53:21 45:4 47:9 51:16
entitles 8:17 executive's 24:9 false 36:6 fortiori 16:17
34:19,20 equilibrium 3:19 44:14 famous 6:16 France 25:4,11
47:14,23 15:3 exercise 11:22 far 29:24 55:22
established 3:20 40:1 42:24,25 fight 28:8 46:9 French 56:6,7
31:20 37:17,23 Hamdan 3:12 6:25 17:10,23 17:23 19:2,22
40:24 49:20 handed 8:1 29:18 41:5 infringed 30:21
42:7 given 21:25 29:9 happen 52:11 24:5 32:13 inherent 44:8
13:1 happens 7:8 identity 18:2 initial 28:5
gloss 48:7,12 harder 14:19 9:8 17:13,16 45:18
48:8 goes 10:18 21:8 held 44:24 implements 6:2 39:5,7,12,15
24:2,20 49:7 51:13 28:2 implicates 28:13 interest 35:3,17
26:17,20 going 13:22 15:2 HILLARY 1:8 implications 40:17 46:1
25:10 33:8 36:5 historians 56:2 21:15 international
29:16 31:1 37:7 47:2 54:3 historical 48:7 implicit 22:8 55:24
32:3,24 54:3,17 48:12 implicitly 22:6 interpretation
34:7 good 39:22 history 8:21 implied 3:16 6:6
government 5:25 17:22 18:3 53:11 interrogatories
36:7 23:11 25:4,11 24:16,21 25:13 importance 12:7
37:2,5,13 25:20,24 45:11 28:4,16 29:19 37:15 40:9 intervene 10:16
38:7 56:7 38:14 39:19,22 important 12:11 inter-branch
39:16 great 31:11 42:6 12:25 30:8,10 10:18
41:2,11 greater 13:12,14 hobble 5:5 7:6 40:16 46:21 introduced 30:20
42:5 13:16 hobbling 7:17 incident 34:11 invade 45:21
43:21,23 ground 30:21 holder 13:2 inclined 10:16 invalid 17:2
46:11,19 grounds 53:5 19:22 36:17 included 25:6 35:15
48:4,11 GUARDIANS holders 19:2 includes 30:14 involve 53:13
50:6,11,18 1:4 hornbook 41:7 incompatible involved 11:21
guys 50:4 houses 25:14 20:25 6:25 7:8,9,11
20:4 Haifa 12:15 19:4 indicated 26:1 13:6,10,25 19:4
24:14 Haig 22:3 43:16 I 32:6 41:20 19:5,11,13,16
30:10 44:6,12 identification 4:5 individual 13:2 19:22 20:15,16
22:17,18 judgment 21:3 37:25 38:7,10 35:1 41:13 4:7,11,20,25
33:20 34:3 24:8,12 27:10 38:13,21,23,25 44:23,23 45:6,7 5:12,17,19,24
37:9 27:10 34:12 39:2,17,24 40:6 46:24 48:22 6:8,14,20 7:4
48:21 36:10 37:14 40:18 41:3,9,12 49:1 50:13 7:12,15,20,23
51:23,24 38:20 46:14 41:16 42:2,10 knowing 38:5,5 8:20 9:4,11,22
53:24 50:21 43:18,22,25 Korean 15:24 10:8 11:3,10,25
47:18,20 jurisdiction 47:25 48:9,16 label 31:25 46:4 16:16,23 17:3,5
52:6 20:19 32:18 49:8,20,23 50:6 labeling 31:8 17:10,18,21
34:24 35:7,9 50:8,12,16 51:2 label's 46:21 18:8,16 19:8,19
3:9,13,17,21 52:11 53:2,25 language 30:14 21:5,25 22:21
24:5 53:7 5:7,8,14,17,18 54:24 55:5,9,14 late 40:15 45:16 51:3,4,6
6:4,9,10 55:20 56:9,11 Laughter 17:20 54:6,12,15,20
9:1 9:4,12,15,23 justification 15:4 55:17 Lincoln 9:1
15:6 27:7 10:8 11:6,11,18 15:18 53:14 law 7:14,16 9:16 line 17:22 18:3
11:20,25 12:4 justified 12:17 9:20 11:22,23 44:1
14:10,17 13:18 14:10,16 41:7 44:25 47:3 listing 7:11
55:5 14:16,21 15:6 K 52:2,21 53:8 litigate 21:11
7:1,7,10 19:20 20:1,4,17 40:18 41:3 42:2 49:11 long 31:19 35:22
9:17,18 21:1,13 22:11 47:25 51:21 leaving 46:7,7 43:22 44:3 49:7
12:16,23 22:14,21,25 keep 15:2 19:23 led 44:13 look 12:2,7 15:3
18:14 23:22 24:2,13 Kennedy 5:7,14 left 5:13 22:4,17 36:5
19:9,11 24:14,15,20 5:17,18,22 6:4 legislated 26:13 37:7 53:16,18
20:13 25:18 26:5,19 6:9,13,15 16:12 legislation 4:2 looking 49:10
24:6 33:9 27:7,13,15,18 16:17,21 17:1,4 25:14 52:22 50:19,20
34:3,6 27:24 28:3 29:8 34:18,23 35:1,5 legislative 35:14 looks 12:2 30:17
30:6,10,23 31:2 35:12,19 40:6 legislature 30:1 51:15,16
49:18 31:11,20 32:11 55:20 length 9:16 24:16 lot 41:17
52:3,4 32:24 33:17,25 Kent 22:3 lesson 33:13 lowest 3:16
36:11,15,21 know 6:20 10:25 Lewin 1:18 2:3,9 making 35:17
minute 24:21 needs 40:2 order 32:12 4:3,7 7:11 9:7
30:2 12:19 new 11:15 25:10 originally 30:19 18:3,19 19:2,5
46:7 misperception 28:9 ought 4:3 19:6,10,22
15:9 53:19,19 Nixon 31:16 outcome 12:21 20:15 21:9,24
32:25 Monday 1:12 Nobody's 52:9 overnight 7:22 22:19,24 33:15
Monroe 8:25 31:4 36:17,17 43:16
39:10 29:3 notion 44:2 P 3:1 48:22 51:13,14
48:4 morning 3:4 notwithstanding page 2:2 28:17 51:16 52:3,15
50:2 move 30:4 43:8 15:16 28:17 30:17 52:23 53:8 54:2
20:12 39:7 multifarious number 4:12 Palestinian 8:1 6:24 18:14 22:2
45:10,25 10:21 19:3 22:7 24:5 33:9
O 12:18 15:10 44:10,10 45:1
34:15 N 2:1,1 3:1 objected 30:20 Pardon 20:3,3 peace 7:9,25
30:11,12 narrow 5:4 6:6 25:22 36:5 36:3,4 18:19 36:5 52:2
11:19,20 NATHAN 1:18 occurs 40:13 13:13 20:14,21 permitting 20:12
37:15 13:10 36:16,18 51:23 personal 21:7,13
46:1 officially 45:3 50:2 persons 24:6
46:3,23 nations 21:19 old 20:2,4 21:18 perspective
54:1 once 3:18 particularly 55:8 12:22
46:25 naturalization opinion 55:10 party 46:16 2:4,10 3:8 24:7
necessarily 40:16 passed 9:16 49:10 51:5
22:18 need 22:7 25:9 19:16 28:14 43:11 pick 19:9,10,11
40:7 42:8 oral 1:14 2:2,5 passes 54:23 piece 25:14
Powell 31:17 29:12,15,21 public 52:1,7 rare 10:5
55:13 31:24 32:2,14 18:5 40:24 34:20 35:13
3:24 4:22,23 35:7,9 37:24 purported 11:21 reaction 13:14
25:1 9:14 10:10,11 40:19,24 41:1 purpose 4:18 44:19
28:12 10:23,23 11:11 42:15 44:11 purposes 45:19 real 45:2 56:1
54:18 11:12 14:13 46:5,9,23 51:9 purse 8:9 really 5:4 37:4
7:2 8:6 11:2 22:1 24:10,11 55:11 46:4,12 realm 40:17
12:8 25:7 26:8,21 presidential 8:18 reason 17:7
14:1,3 28:6,14 29:20 15:21 50:9 Q
45:23
17:15 33:16 34:8 Presidents 8:25 question 5:9 6:19 reasonably
18:25 37:23 38:3,9,18 President's 6:6 9:5 11:14 13:24 37:11
21:15 39:18,21 40:1 11:21 12:8 15:4 22:10 23:1,3,6 reasons 26:5
34:2 40:20 41:1,4,5 16:10 27:9 23:9,19 25:2 39:23
39:4,5,10 41:21 43:6,14 28:19 30:22 26:18,22 27:15 rebuttal 2:8
40:15,17 43:19,24 44:7 33:16 38:19 27:22 28:3,4 23:21 51:4,7
47:9 52:8 48:7,12 50:1,10 42:11,14 43:1 29:24 30:3,25 Receipt 40:20,23
53:15 powers 4:1 15:3 presumably 31:4,9,13,19 Receive 48:2
55:1 53:7 42:18 31:25 32:7,12 received 29:3
precipitating prevail 27:10 32:13,13,14,17 Reception 41:3
23:3,5,9 precisely 4:25 principle 20:18 33:2,5 35:20,20 recognition 8:23
30:24 49:16 private 43:14 38:22 39:17,25 9:9,13,14 11:11
preclude 43:5 probably 10:19 41:19 44:19,21 11:12 19:15
35:20 preclusive 3:18 25:23 29:17 44:21 45:12,19 21:7 24:10
44:18,21 present 14:1 problem 13:20 46:3,16,22 47:5 26:21 28:5,14
46:8,16 preserve 3:19 18:15,17 35:23 47:14,17,18 29:3,5,14 30:22
47:5,14 President 3:15 37:1,2 45:2 49:4,7,8 50:9 32:16,21 33:16
50:14,19 5:3,6,10,13,15 47:11 50:14,20 51:9 33:22 34:11
5:20 6:2 7:6,10 professor 55:13 51:13 52:13 37:21,23 38:1,9
21:12 10:12 11:13,15 pronounces 39:9 31:18 33:2 40:15 41:4,5
35:6 12:5 14:3,11 proposition 35:21 49:22 42:14 43:1,6
37:18 15:17,19 16:19 11:16 quickly 30:5 44:23 46:15
41:2 43:2 22:5 25:2,4,8 proscribe 44:12 quite 10:13 11:24 51:10,12 53:12
48:1 25:15,19,24 province 38:1,5 28:6 39:6 47:11 53:13 55:21
20:24 25:3 reply 8:24 24:16 24:13,15 30:23 50:7,8,12 52:11 18:21
28:9 28:18 55:22 31:2 35:24 36:1 54:24 Senate 8:9 30:12
29:23 Republic 29:2 36:11,21 37:4,6 Scalia's 54:18 send 25:9 40:13
42:12,15 30:13 47:21,24 48:9 scheme 3:13 5:2 sending 29:1
republics 28:10 49:20 50:16 11:18 sends 46:25
18:18 requested 36:3 RODHAM 1:8 34:8 47:19 sense 18:20
25:19,25 require 53:12 role 37:20,21 scrutinize 15:7,8 43:11
43:16 required 16:4 roles 52:25 16:6 sensitive 33:10
53:10 requires 8:8 room 39:13 scrutinized 3:19 sent 26:2
10:4 36:24 resolution 43:12 rulings 47:20 12:4,9 serve 17:14
47:17,17 49:4 Rusk 22:3 15:13,15 share 41:22
11:13,14 Respondent 1:22 39:13 46:9,23 46:13 49:15,18 29:17 33:7
18:9,18 2:7 24:1 47:2 52:7 54:18 53:6 34:14 39:25
22:1,7,10 responsibility says 6:22 7:7 see 14:16,23 47:12
41:22,24 42:1 9:16 10:12 22:4 29:19 simply 8:22 10:7
45:1 rests 39:18 13:21,21 14:25 46:20 16:18 18:14
revolutionary 24:17 26:6 49:11 39:20
25:3,10,23 28:17 29:9,22 seeks 24:7 situation 11:21
49:10 56:6 36:15,22 46:18 16:18 40:11 43:10,12
51:14 statement 18:25 55:18 Tel 12:15 32:25 33:4,12
9:17 20:24 21:2 suggest 48:5 46:19 39:16,18,22,24
8:7 38:2,6 39:4,9 18:7,12 territorial 25:16 41:24,25 42:20
34:17 54:3 suggestion 26:12test 14:10 55:5 42:21 43:18,23
46:19 status 33:9 36:12 suggests 24:22 Texas 3:11 11:19 43:25 44:13
statute 5:3 6:17 superior 10:10 29:9,16,23 45:17,18 46:11
54:10,13 6:22 8:2 12:12 supported 15:22 30:14 46:13,20 47:10
12:13 13:1 supporting 26:11text 48:10 48:11 49:6,9,15
19:21 20:11,11 supposed 13:19 48:14,16 50:21 51:10 55:15
36:2 44:7,9 11:6,9 Thank 23:21,22 thought 18:13
52:12,16,22 surprised 40:22 56:10 37:6
47:6 Taiwan 20:23,24 15:14 16:8 told 47:21,24,24
8:1 10:6 students 55:14 21:10 22:21 25:21,22 26:9 traveling 39:7
12:11,17 studied 30:1 56:3 23:2 36:4 26:14 27:19 treatise 6:4
18:4 19:1 subjects 12:3 taken 15:6 28:1,2,6,11 28:16,16
21:3,9,17 submit 9:12 12:6 takes 3:15 29:17,19,23 treaty 7:25
31:17 32:4,25 20:15,15 21:19 work 30:3 45:13
6:16 11:18 44:6 45:15 46:17 wouldn't 48:5 3 2:4
27:7
26:20 various 45:11 52:14 writes 55:15
vast 41:22 war 15:22,25 wrong 10:7 14:13 5
49:16 Verrilli 1:20 2:6 Washington 1:11 51 2:10
24:18,21 24:20 25:21 28:5 41:6 56:7 x 1:2,10 6
30:11 26:17,20 27:14 Washington's 6 51:3
48:25 50:4 27:17,23 28:1 55:21
31:1,10 wasn't 16:12,13
33:18 way 7:23,24
34:7,22 10:25 31:19,20
35:8,18 35:22 43:5 45:5
42:13 37:13,17,22 weigh 54:6 Z 1:4
47:4 38:7,16,24 weight 40:23,25 Zemel 22:3
41:2,11,15,18 West 20:13 3:4
41:7 44:8 43:23 45:17 29:19 51:3 1
20:24 21:2 50:6,11,18 54:3 100,000 12:14
31:16 34:2 vesting 48:7,12 we've 4:11 11:06 56:13
view 4:15 6:23 Whaling 23:15 133 28:17
39:3,9 8:10 22:1 23:2 23:16 1836 29:22
23:5 51:12 54:2 who've 56:3 1856 4:2 44:5
views 45:12 26:2 1926 4:2
