IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CORY R. MAPLES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 10-63
KIM T. THOMAS, INTERIM :
COMMISSIONER, ALABAMA DEPARTMENT :
OF CORRECTIONS :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 4, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
JOHN C. NEIMAN, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,
Montgomery, Alabama; on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN C. NEIMAN, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-63, Maples v. Thomas.
Mr. Garre.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Two factors distinguish this case from those
in which the Court has found cause lacking to excuse a
default: First, the State itself had a direct hand in
the extraordinary events leading up to the default in
this case; and, second, the actions of Maples's
attorneys, which rise to the level of abandonment, are
not attributable to Maples under agency law or other
principles that this Court has invoked in determining
when attorney conduct may be imputed to a client.
For either or both of those reasons, the
default at issue in this case is not fairly attributable
to Cory Maples, and the contrary decision of the
Eleventh Circuit should be reversed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You talk about the
State's role. I assume that you're talking about there
is the failure to take action after the return of the
notices.
MR. GARRE: I think that's -- that's right,
Mr. Chief Justice. I would couple that, though, with
the fact that the State initially set up a system for
the representation of indigent capital defendants that
relies extremely heavily on the good graces of
out-of-State counsel to represent indigent capital
defendants in Alabama.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, put -- putting
that -- that to one side, what if only one of the three
notices had been returned?
MR. GARRE: I think -- if only one from the
out-of-State pro bono counsel?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. GARRE: I think that would be a
different case. I think what's remarkable about this
case is you have both out-of-State attorneys, the
notices come back marked "Return to Sender -- Left Firm"
in an envelope, and the clerk does nothing. And what's
extraordinary about that, Mr. Chief Justice, is that the
system in this case relies on the out-of-State attorneys
to provide --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Who says so? Who says so?
Who says that they rely on -- you have a local attorney,
and you have to have a local attorney for the case,
don't you? And -- and you want us to believe that the
local attorney is -- has no responsibility for the case
at all? Is this really what the -- what the law
requires? I -- I think there is a serious ethical
obligation when he has the -- when he gets the notice.
He is one of the attorneys for your client. And he got
the notice, right? That one was not returned.
MR. GARRE: That's correct, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He failed to check with --
with the New York lawyers who were working with him.
Why is it -- why is the State responsible for that?
MR. GARRE: We have three points on the
local counsel, Your Honor. First, the record shows that
the notice is not attributable to Mr. Maples because Mr.
Butler had disclaimed any relationship apart from
facilitating the admission of his out-of-State
attorneys.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Disclaimed to who? To --
I mean, how could a clerk be expected to know that the
local counsel really isn't taking any part? I mean --
so was the disclaimer to the clerk?
MR. GARRE: I think a -- a couple things on
the clerk's perspective. First, we do think that it was
well known in Alabama that, under this unique system,
out-of-State attorneys were doing all the work in these
cases, and local counsel were simply facilitating their
admission. Second, one of the --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, who says that, Mr.
Garre? I mean, is there anything in the record on that
point, on the Alabama system generally?
MR. GARRE: A couple of the things, Your
Honor. First, we do have the amicus briefs, which
discuss that anecdotally. I would say that the State of
Alabama in its brief in opposition to this Court a few
years back in the Barbour case specifically touted the
role of out-of-State attorneys under its system and, as
far as I could tell, didn't mention local counsel once.
So, I think it was fair to say that it's known that the
out-of-State attorneys here were doing all the work.
But even if the clerk --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're begging the
question, which is how is the clerk supposed to know
this? This is a functionary in the clerk's office who
sends out notices, receives back mail that's not
returned. There has to be some local counsel that does
work.
MR. GARRE: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How is he supposed to
know the difference between those that do and those that
don't?
MR. GARRE: What -- what -- I think the
clerk would be imputed with knowledge, general knowledge
of the system. But beyond that, what the clerk know --
knew was this: He knew that two of the three notices
that went out were returned, both to the out-of-State
attorneys, which ought to be an extraordinary event in
the life of any clerk's office.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But, you know, even if
local counsel is as you -- as you describe it, and
nothing in the record establishes it, even if he is a
functionary, surely the function would include when he
gets a notice, that he makes sure that the -- the people
who do the real work know about the notice.
MR. GARRE: Of course. But the point is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He didn't perform that
function.
MR. GARRE: In this case, the local counsel
didn't perform as a mail drop, and that was
intentionally so. His own affidavit makes that clear.
And I think what's important is the State itself must
not have viewed him as a meaningful player.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But he didn't have a mail
drop? I just didn't hear what you said.
MR. GARRE: My point was that ordinarily a
local counsel would serve as the mail drop; he would
forward notice. In this case, Mr. Butler made quite
clear from the outset that he was not even performing
that role. The role that he intentionally performed was
to admit out-of-State counsel and to let them do the
work. But the State itself --
JUSTICE SCALIA: To whom did he make that
clear? You said he made it clear at the outset. To
whom? And where is that in the record?
MR. GARRE: It's in his affidavit, Your
Honor, the petition appendix page 256.
JUSTICE SCALIA: His affidavit after --
after the fact, right?
MR. GARRE: That's right, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did -- did he tell the
clerk of the court that that was the case?
MR. GARRE: He did not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, you know, I'm counsel
of record. He's the counsel of record, right? I'm
counsel of record, but I don't even do so much as to
forward notices to the guys that are doing the real
work? Did he tell the clerk that?
MR. GARRE: He did not tell the clerk --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's extraordinary.
MR. GARRE: -- but the State itself, Your
Honor must not have viewed him as a meaningful player,
because when the default at issue in this case occurred,
the State sent a letter -- faxed it -- to Mr. Maples
directly on death row in Alabama, without --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said that even before
that. In the rule -- you said the Rule 32 -- didn't you
say something about -- the -- the notice that went from
the prosecutor to Maples did not go to the local
counsel, right?
MR. GARRE: The clerk sent out notices to
all three attorneys of record, the two out-of-State
counsel and Mr. Butler. Mr. Butler did receive the
notice. He didn't do anything, both because he hadn't
assumed any role beyond facilitating admission --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did the -- did the
prosecutor -- I'm not talking about the clerk now. The
prosecutor had a filing in connection with the Rule 32
motion. Did the prosecutor send that to, well,
everybody? Maples and everybody?
MR. GARRE: He did not. The State -- and
this is at page 26 of the joint appendix. The State
served it on his out-of-State counsel and not Mr.
Butler, his local counsel. And when the default
occurred, the State contacted Mr. -- Mr. Maples directly
in prison, which would have been unethical if the State
had known or believed that he was represented by
counsel.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you seem not to rely
on what the State as prosecutor did. It seemed to me
the State as prosecutor was recognizing that Maples had
no counsel; therefore, sent -- said you'd better file
your habeas; this is how much time you have -- sent it
just to him.
MR. GARRE: I absolutely agree with you,
Justice Ginsburg. I think that that is further evidence
that everybody knew that Mr. Maples didn't have any
local counsel in any meaningful sense.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where does the Constitution
say, by the way, that you have to give notice, that
every judicial action has to be noticed --
MR. GARRE: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- to the parties to the
case? The Federal rules don't -- don't require notice,
do they?
MR. GARRE: The Constitution doesn't say
that explicitly --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the Federal rules don't
say it. You don't have to give notice in the Federal
rules, do you?
MR. GARRE: We think notice of a
postconviction order in a capital case would at least
implicate a due process interest in receiving notice,
that it's reasonable --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Capital cases are
different? If you're going to go to jail for life you
-- you don't get notice, but if -- if it's a capital
case --
MR. GARRE: I think under the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I mean, it's either a
rule for all criminal cases or it's not a rule.
MR. GARRE: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if -- if it's a rule
for all criminal cases, the Federal rules are
unconstitutional, you're saying.
MR. GARRE: The Mullane case specifically
takes into account the interests of the individual
receiving notice. There could be no greater interest of
an individual than receiving notice in a capital case
where the individual's life is at stake. Ultimately we
don't think this Court has to find a constitutional
violation. It has to find that the events --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Once you're in court and
you have a lawyer, it's up to your lawyer to follow what
goes on in the court. That's the assumption of the
Federal rules. And it seems to me a perfectly
reasonable assumption. And I'm not about to hold that
-- that they are unconstitutional simply because an
extraordinary requirement of notice, which is not
required by the Constitution, has gone awry.
MR. GARRE: Here Mr. Maples did not have an
attorney that was serving in an agency role in any
meaningful sense. That's laid out in Ms. DeMott's
amicus brief; it's laid out in our case. What's more is
the State here didn't simply just, we think quite
unreasonably, rely on a role that local counsel was not
performing in Alabama --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if -- but --
your case it seems to me turns critically on Butler's
role. How much, in addition to what he did or didn't
do, would he have to do to put him in a position where
he was in fact representing Maples in your view?
MR. GARRE: I think that the ordinary role
of local counsel, which would have been to, at a
minimum, forward notice in a proceeding, would be a
meaningful relationship. The relationship that -- that
Professor DeMott describes here is one of sub-agency.
And, in fact, if you look at the Alabama rules, they put
the onus on the out-of-State counsel to associate the
local counsel. That's at page 365 of the joint
appendix. The out-of-State counsel did that. Mr. --
Mr. Maples wasn't involved in that transaction.
JUSTICE ALITO: Where do we look -- where do
we look to see that it's standard practice for local
counsel throughout the country to contact out-of-State
counsel when something like this is received? I
remember a case from the Federal system in which local
counsel appeared and did exactly what was done here,
moved the admission of an out-of-State criminal defense
attorney, who then tried the case for a year, got sick,
and the judge said to the local -- local counsel: Come
on in; you're going to take over this trial and try it
for the next 6 months. And the local counsel said:
Whoa, I only signed up to move the admission of this
fellow. The judge said: That's too bad; you're counsel
of record, and you have to take over the case.
I don't understand that what is alleged to
have occurred here is that far out of the ordinary.
MR. GARRE: I think Mr. Butler -- just
simply saying, I'm going to allow -- I'm going to
facilitate your out-of-State attorneys to represent you,
but that's my role. He had, quote, unquote, "no role"
after that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He can't define his role as
a lawyer. Once he appears before a court and says, I am
counsel of record, he has certain responsibilities.
It's not up to him to say what his responsibilities are.
MR. GARRE: Well, clearly that's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if they don't extend
even to forwarding notice, even to making sure that the
people who were doing the legwork in the case know that
-- that the clock is running, my goodness, I can't
imagine what his responsibility is. It's not up to him
to define it.
MR. GARRE: That's exactly our point,
Justice Scalia, which is that he forswore any
responsibility. The lawyer in the Holland case just had
those responsibilities, too. He abandoned his client.
This -- what Mr. Butler here did here was inexcusable.
But there's another factor at play here, and
that's the confusion that the court itself affirmatively
created when it sent an order that, by its term,
directed that all counsel of record receive it. And
that's what the order said; it's on page 225 of the
joint appendix. And --
JUSTICE BREYER: Before you get to the
court, could I ask you about what the State attorney,
the prosecuting attorney, knew? Did the prosecuting
attorney know that these two individuals from New York
were representing this person?
MR. GARRE: Certainly, it knew that they
were counsel of record in the proceeding. I'll let my
-- my friend answer that question. What we know,
though, is when the default occurred, it took the
extraordinary step of faxing a letter directly to Mr.
Maples in prison, which would have been unethical if it
believed he was represented by counsel.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So you think
you have -- in your view, the counsel of record knew
that these two people in New York were part of the
representation. Did the counsel -- I mean, not the
counsel of record; the counsel for the State.
Did the counsel know that they hadn't gotten
the notice?
MR. GARRE: Well, I don't want to speak for
my friend. I don't -- there's certainly nothing in the
record to -- to establish that they knew that these
out-of-State attorneys didn't get notice.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any reason to
think that the State attorney or whoever was prosecuting
thought that the local counsel was likely not to do
much?
MR. GARRE: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes? Okay.
MR. GARRE: The very actions it took,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, so it's
possible -- we'll find out later -- that the State --
the prosecuting attorney who works for the State knew
all those things: One, he's represented by counsel in
New York; two, they didn't get the notice; three, the
local attorney isn't going to do anything; and
conclusion: They likely knew he didn't get the notice,
but they are asserting that this is an adequate State
ground to bar him coming into habeas; is that the
correct posture of the case?
MR. GARRE: That's true, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, all we have to decide
is whether under these circumstances the State
attorney's knowledge of all those facts mean that the
State cannot assert this is an adequate State ground.
MR. GARRE: Right. And I think the State's
actions --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do we know that he knew all
of those facts?
MR. GARRE: No, Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, we don't know
that.
MR. GARRE: But we know -- we know what
action it took, and that action was an action that
assumed that he didn't have meaningful counsel, or else
it would have been unethical.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me ask you --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, can I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me ask you this, if I
may. I don't know if -- I don't think the briefs
covered it. It may be in there. Do you know, in
Alabama and/or nationwide, in how many capital cases
there is no appeal?
MR. GARRE: I don't know that, Justice
Kennedy. I think the Alabama system here created a
system in which it would allow for appeals, not only in
direct appeals, but postconviction proceedings. The
extraordinary -- there are several extraordinary
features of the Alabama system, and we think that
ultimately they helped to facilitate the extraordinary
and shocking events in this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if -- the New
York lawyers did not abandon Mr. Maples prior to the
time that they left their law firm in New York, right?
MR. GARRE: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, their conduct
prior to that time would be attributed to him, right?
MR. GARRE: I think that's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. Part of
their conduct was setting up their arrangement with Mr.
Butler where he would show up as counsel of record but
not really do anything. So, why aren't the consequences
of that arrangement attributed to Maples as well?
MR. GARRE: Well, I don't think they would
be attributed. I think what you're looking for is
whether the default itself is attributable to Maples.
The New York -- what -- what the out-of-State attorneys
did is they left the representation without fulfilling
their duty to notify the court or Mr. Maples. Mr.
Maples was in -- was sitting in a prison cell in Alabama
under the reasonable belief that he was represented by
counsel who would appeal if an adverse decision was
issued.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Garre, can I go back to
Justice Kennedy's question? This was not an appeal.
The question was how many capital cases is there no
appeal. He had been convicted and had appealed, right?
The -- this is --
MR. GARRE: The direct proceedings had
concluded.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The direct proceedings were
over. He had appealed up to -- up to the State supreme
court. Did he seek cert here, too?
MR. GARRE: He did, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He did. And this was a
postconviction --
MR. GARRE: It was, but when the State sets
up that system and allows for appeals, it can't
arbitrarily deprive it of an appeal based on the sort of
circumstances here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That may be, but I don't
think it's extraordinary that there be no appeal, I
mean, postconviction.
MR. GARRE: I'm not aware of any State that
does not allow appeal in postconviction proceedings.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It can be allowed, but it
would not seem to me extraordinary that it not be
sought.
MR. GARRE: But I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in -- in this -- in
this case, there was a direct appeal, and then there was
this proceeding that we're talking about here. The
trial judge waited for 18 months. So, you would think
there's some merit to the underlying claim. Any
statistics on whether or not -- on how often an appeal
is abandoned or not pursued in this kind of case? No
statistics?
MR. GARRE: No. I mean, the statistics that
I'm aware of are that habeas claims are in a material
sense often successful in capital cases. We've cited
those in our reply brief. Here we think the underlying
claims are quite serious. The question in the case is
really not who shot the victims. The question is, was
whether Mr. Maples was going to be convicted for capital
murder or murder that would result in life imprisonment.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm -- I'm aware of the
allegations.
MR. GARRE: And I think, going back to the
court's and the clerk's actions here, one of the things
that exacerbated the chain of events here was that you
had an order which directed that all parties would be
served. Mr. Butler did say that he saw that that order
directed that the out-of-State counsel would be served,
which created an added risk of the likelihood --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, I have two
questions for you. Is that -- is this State the only
one that doesn't appoint counsel in a postconviction
capital case?
MR. GARRE: Well, I believe that Alabama may
appoint them. They don't provide for appointment in all
cases. I believe Georgia is another State. But in that
respect, I think these States are alone.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the vast majority
do?
MR. GARRE: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In capital cases?
MR. GARRE: The vast majority do.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Number two,
I thought there were two questions in this -- in this
part of your case. The first is, don't we have to
decide that abandonment, which you have termed, is
cause --
MR. GARRE: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- in a -- to excuse a
procedural bar in a State court.
MR. GARRE: Right. And that is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we have to decide
first whether we extend Holland to this setting.
MR. GARRE: Well, I think they're
independent grounds. If the Court concludes that the
State's own actions --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the due process.
I'm talking about -- yes, both we would have to decide.
Assuming -- we have to decide the first question. Is --
MR. GARRE: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Will we extend Holland
to this type of situation?
MR. GARRE: I don't -- I don't -- I just
want to be clear on this. They are independent grounds.
If the Court concludes that the State's actions --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes, I -- I understand.
MR. GARRE: But with respect to the
attorneys, that's right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could we find --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what is the line,
Mr. Garre, between abandonment and just plain old
negligence?
MR. GARRE: It would be the line established
by agency law going back to Justice Story's time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, if this local counsel
simply goofed in not -- not advising the people that
were doing the legwork in the case, why -- why is that
abandonment?
MR. GARRE: I think it's actually more of a
situation where he disclaimed any meaningful role at the
outset. I think, you know, the real abandonment going
on here was the attorneys in New York who left without
notifying the court or their client. But that --
JUSTICE ALITO: Putting aside the question
of local counsel, could we find that there was an
abandonment if the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell
continued to represent Mr. Maples after the two young
attorneys left the firm?
MR. GARRE: The Court could.
JUSTICE ALITO: And does the record show
that they -- they did not represent Mr. Maples, that
this was done purely by the two attorneys? Is there a
finding by a court on that?
MR. GARRE: There is not a finding. We
think that's the better reading of the record, and I'm
happy to explain why. But most importantly, we think
it's irrelevant whether he was represented by the law
firm in the fictional sense. He was represented by
individual lawyers in that proceeding. They were the
ones who Mr. Maples agreed to have represent him in that
proceeding. The Alabama courts made specific findings
that Mr. Maples's lawyers were Ms. Ingen-Housz and
Mr. Munanka. It said that after the default. At that
time --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in the -- in the
practice of a law firm, these were very junior people.
Wouldn't the law firm have to have some involvement in
giving them permission to provide this representation?
I mean, usually there's something like a pro bono
committee and a higher level. Can -- can such junior
associates just go ahead and say, we want to spend a lot
of our time defending a man on death row? Wouldn't they
have to get some kind of permission?
MR. GARRE: I think one would ordinarily
expect that. And we're not condoning the actions here.
I would say that, at the outset of this litigation,
there were individuals from the Legal Aid Society who
were well familiar with capital cases involved. They
apparently dropped out of the case. But we know --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, what do we know about
Mr. De Leeuw's role, Mr. Garre?
MR. GARRE: What we know is what Mr. De
Leeuw has said, which is that he was involved in the
case at some point. It's not clear what his involvement
was. At the oral argument in the Eleventh Circuit, he
said, on page 302 of the joint appendix, that he was --
they were awaiting further action from the court. So,
we don't know what his involvement was.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, we don't
know, we don't know. Isn't that just proof that if we
were to find that Holland applied, a Holland exception
applied, that we would have to remand this case?
MR. GARRE: I think that would be
appropriate, Your Honor. Of course, we think the Court
should find that the Holland -- the Holland exception,
or more particularly --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In that regard, there is
one part of Holland that you don't really address, which
is that Holland contrasted a statute of limitations
issue with respect to access to a Federal court with a
procedural bar and said that the State's procedural bar
had interest of federalism, that we had to be cautious
of ignoring a State procedural bar because of
federalism. If we were to extend Holland in the way you
want, how do we justify ignoring federalism in that
situation?
MR. GARRE: That's right. There are those
distinctions.
Our point is that Holland recognizes that
attorney conduct that amounts to abandonment is external
to the client under agency and other principles.
Coleman itself recognizes that external conduct is not
attributable to the client and can't be a basis for
cause.
So, the Federal -- federalism interests are
simply not implicated in a case where you find that the
attorney's actions are external. And we think if you
look at the principles you looked at in Holland, agency
law going back to Justice Story's time, the principles
of professional standards of care, you would find that
an abandonment -- of course, that must be external to
the client. Justice Alito said in his concurring
opinion that where someone is not acting as an agent in
any meaningful sense, it would be grossly inequitable
and unfair to attribute the agent's conduct to the
client.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Garre --
MR. GARRE: That's the principle we're
asking.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Could we go back to the
state of the record? You've said a few times, and your
brief does, that the record is skimpy on various
important matters. Would you go further and say that
the record is irretrievably corrupted, tainted by
conflicts of interest?
MR. GARRE: I think there are conflicts of
interest here. They're laid out in the legal ethics
briefs. The Sullivan & Cromwell attorneys were
representing Mr. Maples up through the argument and
decision in the Eleventh Circuit. But I think -- for
purposes of what this Court would do, I think a remand
would be appropriate, because if you conclude, as we
think you should, that abandonment of counsel would be
an external factor, then it would be appropriate to
remand for further proceedings. We don't know what
these other attorneys were doing. The record doesn't
show that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: We do know, though, that
they were not counsel of record.
MR. GARRE: We absolutely know that they
were not.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, we know that the two
who were listed as counsel of record --
MR. GARRE: They were not.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- were not representing
him, and they hadn't told the court.
MR. GARRE: They were not counsel of record.
Mr. Maples never agreed to have anyone else represent
him in a way that could bind him. The Alabama court
specifically found not only that they weren't counsel of
record, but they were not authorized to practice in
Alabama. This is on page 223 of the petition appendix.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it seems to me it's up
to you to produce the facts that would justify our
reversing the case that you're asking us to do.
MR. GARRE: We asked --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you say, well, we don't
have these facts; well, send -- send it back so I can --
no, you should have gotten the facts in the first place.
If the record doesn't show the things that you need to
show to get this case reversed, the case should not be
reversed, it seems to me.
MR. GARRE: But the petition did include a
request for an evidentiary hearing. And I think the
problem is that both the district court and the court of
appeals short-circuited the inquiry into counsel's
actions because it believed that Coleman v. Thompson
applied in the abandonment situation. And where a court
made that kind of legal error, it would be appropriate
for the Court to send it back and say, no, Coleman v.
Thompson does not apply in the extraordinary case of
abandonment, or an attorney's actions cannot be
attributable to a client under agency law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: When did you first make the
abandonment claim?
MR. GARRE: Well, I think we've argued --
JUSTICE SCALIA: When was it? Wasn't it
first made in the -- in the request for rehearing?
MR. GARRE: I think explicitly. Now, we
think that -- two points on this. We think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's rather late.
MR. GARRE: We think that all along they
argued that the attorneys' actions established cause.
That's why both the district court and the court of
appeals addressed that and rejected it erroneously under
Coleman.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That isn't abandonment.
That isn't abandonment. The attorneys' actions
established cause; that does not mean abandonment to me.
MR. GARRE: We think this falls squarely
within the rule of Yee v. Escondido, where -- where the
party makes the claim below -- which they made the claim
here that the attorneys' actions established cause --
you can make new arguments, different arguments.
And I think, particularly given that
Sullivan & Cromwell had been involved early in this case
and the possibility of conflicts of interest would make
it appropriate for this Court to consider our
abandonment issue, which was raised in the petition for
rehearing, explicitly raised in the petition for
certiorari -- explicitly -- we think it's properly
before this Court.
If there are no further questions at this
time, I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Garre.
Mr. Neiman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN C. NEIMAN, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. NEIMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
In trying to sidestep Coleman, Maples is
advocating at least three principles that are
incompatible with the way our justice system works.
First, Maples is asking this Court to hold that due
process required not just actual notice to his attorney
of record, John Butler, but in fact something more than
that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's say the three
notices are sent out; all three of them come back, okay?
Let's even go further and say the prosecutor knows that
nobody representing Mr. Maples received notice. What
happens then?
MR. NEIMAN: In that case, Your Honor, there
would be a much more substantial argument --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah, I know it
would be more substantial. That's why --
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: My question is what
happens? Are you prepared to acknowledge that in that
case, Mr. Maples had been abandoned by all of his
lawyers, it was known to the prosecution, and,
therefore, the failure to file the notice should not
constitute an adequate and independent State ground
barring collateral relief?
MR. NEIMAN: I don't think that the return
of all three notices would justify necessarily a finding
of abandonment in toto by all the lawyers. It could
signify a number of things. I do think that it would
raise questions about whether the clerk had a due
process obligation to do more under Jones v. Flowers.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What does the return mean
when you get -- get a notice returned? It just said no
longer at Sullivan & Cromwell, is what the two of them
said, right?
MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does that necessarily mean
that they've abandoned the case? It just means you got
the wrong address, doesn't it?
MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that the only thing
it means for sure, these lawyers are no longer here at
Sullivan & Cromwell?
MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know how that would
be an indication of abandonment. Can't you switch a law
firm and keep the client?
MR. NEIMAN: Absolutely, Your Honor,
although the presumption generally is that the client
stays with the firm. But that's correct. The client
certainly can move firms when the -- when the lawyer
moves firms.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Neiman, I think we're
blurring two issues. We're not talking about
abandonment in this respect. We're talking about notice
going to no one, and a -- and a clock ticking from a
certain date that no one knows about.
I mean, they were preparing for a hearing
before this judge. So they weren't anticipating that he
was going to rule without anything further.
MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
They certainly were preparing for an evidentiary
hearing, and, in fact, contrary to my friend's
statements about what we know about Mr. De Leeuw's
involvement in this case, on page 228 of the J.A.,
Maples expressly alleged that De Leeuw and others at
Sullivan & Cromwell were preparing for the evidentiary
hearing. But --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But as far as -- as far
the record shows, De Leeuw is not on the record at all.
There were three counsel of record. Two of them --
well, let's go back to this -- this -- the first issue.
The State by its own conduct showed it didn't regard
Butler as any kind of representative, because it didn't
even send its Rule 32 response to Butler; isn't that so?
MR. NEIMAN: No, Your Honor, I respectfully
disagree with that assessment of how we can read the
service of the Rule 32 answer. Under Alabama law, a --
a pleading or an order may be served on only one counsel
of record when a party has multiple counsel of record.
So, for example, that answer was served upon Mr. Munanka
at Sullivan & Cromwell, but it was not served, expressly
at least, on --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about --
MR. NEIMAN: -- Ms. Ingen-Housz.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the notice
that he's -- he had lost in the Alabama court and he'd
better, if he wants to go to the Federal court, do
something about it? That notice went only to Maples,
right?
MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
The -- the State's attorney in that -- in that instance
decided to send a letter only to Mr. Maples. Of
course --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And Mr. Garre made the
point that if Maples were represented, that that would
be improper, to -- to send a notice to Maples alone.
So, the -- so, the State's attorney must have thought
that Maples had been abandoned by his lawyers because he
didn't notify any of them.
MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, the record does not
reveal why Mr. Hayden decided to send the letter to Mr.
Maples alone. One --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, he didn't have
to send the letter. That letter had no legal effect,
did it?
MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, it was just: By
the way, your time has expired. I mean, this is not --
what could the lawyer do about it?
MR. NEIMAN: Well, and it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It wasn't a required notice
that he had to give to the lawyer or to anybody else.
MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So he just made this
extraneous, volunteered statement to Maples instead of
to his lawyer. I don't -- I don't know what that
proves.
MR. NEIMAN: At that point in time, the
State case was over. So, it was hardly clear if Mr.
Hayden was going to do something that he didn't have to
do under the rules.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why did he do it?
Why did he do it, then? Just gloating that -- that the
fellow had lost?
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What was the point
of it? He must have thought there was a problem, right?
MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, he certainly was
aware that Mr. Maples's lawyers had failed to file a
notice of appeal. But -- and his letter reveals that he
is very aware --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that surprising? I
think Justice Kennedy asked your adversary: How often
do appeals lie from the denial of State postconviction
remedies?
MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, I agree with my
friend that we don't have statistics on that front. I
think it's fair to assume that, for the most part, when
a Rule 32 petitioner loses at the trial stage, they're
going to appeal.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In a capital case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Particularly in a -- in a
capital case.
MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor,
although there are some instances in which a capital
petitioner or someone on death row decides that they no
longer want to invoke the process of the courts, and
they're ready for their sentence to be carried out.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just have two questions
going back to the very beginning, when we were talking
about the misaddressed or the unreceived mail. When the
notices come back "no longer at Sullivan & Cromwell,"
that's just as if it said, functionally, don't you
think, "wrong address"?
MR. NEIMAN: Not quite, Your Honor. I think
that -- that the notice saying that the person's no
longer at Sullivan & Cromwell indicates that the person
is no longer at the firm. I guess the notice could come
back --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, it's pretty clear
that they didn't get their -- get the mail, get the
letter, because it's sent back.
MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: One other thing while I'm
talking with you, and it's a tangential point, perhaps.
Could the State of Alabama under your laws waive what
you allege to be the procedural default? If you thought
there was substantial merit to the underlying claims,
even though you take the position that they ultimately
should be rejected, could you have simply waived the
procedural default and allowed the appeal to proceed?
MR. NEIMAN: I don't think the law makes
that crystal clear, Your Honor. But I certainly know of
no law that suggests that the Attorney General of
Alabama necessarily has to assert every single potential
defense within his or her arsenal.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Has Alabama ever waived
lack of timely appeal in a capital case?
MR. NEIMAN: I'm not aware, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, could we go
back to the Chief Justice's initial question? Let's
assume the two letters went to Sullivan & Cromwell and
came back "left firm," as they did, and that the letter
to Butler came back "deceased." Would there be cause in
that situation to excuse the State's procedural ground?
MR. NEIMAN: Perhaps, Your Honor. It -- it
would depend on why the letters came back from Sullivan
& Cromwell, I suppose.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, we -- we know that
they -- that both lawyers in this case didn't move to
another firm. Both of them took jobs that precluded
them from representing this defendant. So, I don't know
how I define abandonment other than I take a job where I
can't work for you anymore.
MR. NEIMAN: The -- the cause argument in
that case, Your Honor, would be substantially stronger,
as I've said before, in part because death, of course,
is an external factor. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you accept -- I
don't mean to interfere with the question, but -- so,
you accept the idea that there is a distinction between
malfeasance and abandonment.
MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, I think we would be
prepared to recognize that, in certain cases, an
abandonment of a client by an attorney would terminate
the agency relationship with -- between the attorney and
client. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So, then the
only thing -- the only thing we're talking about is
whether, on these particular facts, there has been
abandonment or not. Right?
MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: From your
perspective.
MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor. But one thing
I do want to stress is that my friend has suggested that
an evidentiary hearing or further evidentiary
proceedings are necessary on this particular question
because we don't know what role the other attorneys at
Sullivan & Cromwell played in the matter.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But we do know they
weren't counsel of record. We do know that the only two
counsel of record were no longer representing him, and
he had no reason to know that they weren't, but they
were not -- they couldn't represent him.
The two -- the only two out-of-town counsel
were the two who disabled themselves from representing
him by taking other jobs.
MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, there was no one from
Sullivan & Cromwell other than those two on the record.
So, on the record, they had abandoned him, and there was
no substitute.
MR. NEIMAN: I disagree with that
assessment, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the argument is that
on the record or not is determinative for the out-of-
town counsel, but it is not determinative for the
in-town counsel. The fact that he is counsel of record
doesn't count, but the fact that those two are does
count. And only when you combine those two does the man
have no counsel. Right?
MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor. There is that
inconsistency in Maples's argument. On the one hand,
Maples says that Butler -- or that the other lawyers at
Sullivan & Cromwell weren't his attorneys because they
weren't counsel of record. But Butler was counsel of
record, but he wasn't his attorney.
JUSTICE KAGAN: The notice inquiry is
supposed to be a pragmatic one. As far back as Mullane,
we've said that the question that we're supposed to ask
ourselves is: Is this what somebody would do if they
actually wanted to accomplish notice, if they actually
wanted the person to get that letter? So, I'm just
going to ask you, General, if you were a lawyer in an
important litigation and you send off an important
letter to two lawyers, your principal adversaries, as
well as to a local counsel who you think may not be
involved in the substance of the litigation, you don't
know for a fact, but you think that there is some
substantial likelihood that he's not particularly
involved, as local counsel often aren't -- so, you send
off this letter and you get it back from the principal
attorneys, and you ask yourself: Huh, should I do
anything now?
What would you say?
(Laughter.)
MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, I suspect that, in
those circumstances, I might well personally do
something else. But, of course, my prerogatives as
Solicitor General of Alabama are quite different from
the prerogatives of a clerk in Morgan County, Alabama.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, as then the clerk has
to believe that it's an important letter. Right? It's
not important enough to be required by the Federal
rules. How important is it?
JUSTICE KAGAN: Justice Scalia is right.
I'm assuming that a letter disposing of a -- of a ruling
in a capital case issued after 18 months when nobody
knew that that letter was coming, that that's an
important letter for a death row person to get. So,
Justice Scalia is right to that effect.
So, you get this, and you say, well, you
would have. But that's the question that we have to ask
about the clerk as well. The clerk -- the question for
the clerk is, if he had really wanted the person to get
notice, what would he have done?
MR. NEIMAN: No, Your Honor, I disagree.
The -- as far back as Mullane, this Court has said that
at the end of the day, actual notice to a party,
particularly within the jurisdiction, is the finish line
for due process purposes. Mullane expressly --
JUSTICE ALITO: You can see from these
questions that the arguments that you're making in this
capital case, which is sui generis, are pushing the
Court to consider rules that would have far-reaching
effect, such as a rule that places upon a clerk of the
court a constitutional obligation to serve counsel with
important documents in the case similar to the
constitutional obligation to serve initial process in
the case. And the question that I would like to ask is
whether this -- the -- whether you as the Solicitor
General or the Attorney General of Alabama have an
obligation to push this matter in this way. This is a
case where -- as I said, it's a capital case, as we all
recognize. Mr. Maples has lost his right to appeal
through no fault of his own, through a series of very
unusual and unfortunate circumstances.
Now, when his attorneys moved to file an
out-of-time appeal, why wouldn't you just consent to
that? If he did not receive an effective assistance of
counsel at trial, why not get a decision on the merits
on that? Why push this -- this technical argument?
MR. NEIMAN: There are several responses,
Your Honor. First, at least at the Rule 32 stage, the
-- the notice of appeal deadline was a jurisdictional
one. And you're right, the State did oppose the motion
for an out-of-time appeal, but there wasn't much the
State could have done even if it had consented --
JUSTICE ALITO: There's no --
MR. NEIMAN: -- on that front.
JUSTICE ALITO: There's no possibility under
Alabama rules for an out-of-time appeal in this
circumstance? No extension?
MR. NEIMAN: The holding of the Alabama
courts here, as recognized by the Eleventh Circuit, was
that this would not be an appropriate circumstance for
an out-of-time appeal. Now, as to the question about --
JUSTICE ALITO: But is that a discretionary
matter or is that a flat rule, once you've passed a
certain time deadline, you're out of -- you're out of
luck; there's no opportunity where there's good cause
for an extension?
MR. NEIMAN: There is opportunity where
there's good cause for an extension. But the -- what
the court held here, what the Alabama court held here,
was that this circumstance in which the person had
counsel of record, and counsel of record hadn't notified
the court of their address -- of their changes of
address, and, more importantly, Mr. Butler, who was, in
fact, serving as Mr. Maples's agent in this case and
received --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, this goes to my
earlier question, and continuing Justice Alito's line of
questioning. If the State of Alabama had told the State
court, in all of the circumstances, we think there
should be an out-of-time appeal granted -- you're -- are
you indicating that the State court said, well, that's a
good idea, but we can't do it because it's not
appropriate in these circumstances?
MR. NEIMAN: That seems to be the holding of
the Court of Criminal Appeals in this case, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did you -- did you oppose
it? Did the State oppose the out-of-time appeal?
MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor, the State did
oppose the out-of-time appeal, and the State pressed the
procedural bar in Federal court in this case. But the
State had every prerogative to do so, in part because
this Court recognized in Coleman, a case where the
petitioner undoubtedly could have said that he lost his
right to his appeal through no fault of his own, that
the State had the power to do that. There are good
reasons for the State --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could the State in --
excuse me. Could the State in the -- in the Federal
litigation have waived the procedural default?
MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, I think the law is
not exactly clear on that, but I know of no law that
would say that the Alabama Attorney General has to press
every single non-jurisdictional defense at his or her
disposal. But he did not do so here and had good reason
not to. That's in part because Coleman says that this
is how procedural defaults work. There are good reasons
for procedural defaults. They are grounded in the same
equitable principles that led --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you agreed with
me earlier that abandonment is an exception to the
adequate and independent State grounds. So, under your
view of the case, Coleman was not necessarily
controlling.
MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, if I have suggested
that abandonment itself is an exception to the AISG
doctrine, let me correct my earlier answer.
My suggestion is that abandonment can
sometimes allow a court to determine that a particular
lawyer has become external to a client, that the agency
relationship has been terminated. Of course, merely
becoming external to the client doesn't mean that the
abandonment itself will constitute cause. The
abandonment also -- or the lawyer's ending of the
relationship would also have to impede the ability of
the remaining members of the defense team or the
defendant himself to comply with State rules.
And here, even if there is some argument
that Ingen-Housz and Munanka abandoned their client,
which I don't think there is on this record in light of
the way they left the case with Butler, Mr. De Leeuw,
and others at Sullivan & Cromwell, even if there were
some argument on that front, Butler -- it's not clear
that the actions of Ingen-Housz and Munanka actually
impeded the ability of the remaining members of the team
to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When -- when lawyers stop
representing a client, as the two did, isn't there some
obligation of them to tell the client and the court,
we're no longer representing you, and arrange for
substitutions? There were never any substitutions on
the record of the other counsel. The record said these
two people are representing Maples, and those two
weren't. They never told the court, and they never told
Maples. Isn't there some obligation on -- on their part
to the court when they stop representing a client to
advise the court?
MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor, I think there
is. But I don't think that means that what happened
here constitutes cause. The record is clear. Mr.
Maples himself has alleged, that Ingen-Housz and Munanka
arranged for this case to be handled by Mr. De Leeuw,
and the record makes clear that Mr. De Leeuw was
involved in this case in representing Maples even before
the default occurred and even before Ingen-Housz and
Munanka were -- well, even at the same -- even before
Ingen-Housz and Munanka left, I should say.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is it -- is it -- I'm still
unclear on one factual thing. Did the State's attorneys
know that the letters had come back?
MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: Should they have known?
MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, the record is not
clear on that point. I can represent to the Court that
the State's attorney did not know that the letters had
come back. I --
JUSTICE BREYER: Do they check the -- do
they check the docket every so often to see what's
happened?
MR. NEIMAN: Most -- most attorneys have an
obligation at some point to check the docket, and that's
-- that's one problem with the position that Mr. Maples
has taken regarding Mr. Butler here and the ability of
these parties to obtain information from the court.
But in this case, it's my understanding --
and this is not on the record. But it's on the record
obviously before this Court now. But it's my -- it's my
understanding that the State had no idea that Mr.
Maples's attorneys had not -- Mr. Maples's two attorneys
in New York had left their firm or had --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why did --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then why did they -- why
did they send to Maples alone the notice, you'd better
file your Federal habeas? They didn't send it to those
counsel. Where did they -- what made them send it --
send that notice directly to Maples and not to either of
the Sullivan & Cromwell lawyers?
MR. NEIMAN: Again, this is -- this is
information that's not in the record, Your Honor. But
it's my understanding that counsel looked at -- looked
at -- figured out what had happened, figured out the
appeal had been missed, had calculated how much time Mr.
Maples had to file his 2254 petition and, based on his
20 years of experience, said that in light of the fact
that the State court proceedings were over, the most
prudent thing for him to do would be to send the letter
to Maples himself.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, he had figured out
that something had terminated the relationship between
Mr. Maples and his lawyers?
MR. NEIMAN: No, Your Honor, I don't think
that's -- I don't think that's an accurate
characterization of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, even --
MR. NEIMAN: -- of what exactly happened in
this case, but in the very least, his lawyers had missed
-- had missed the deadline.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even if you assume that he
had figured it out, that -- you would have to impute his
knowledge to the clerk of court to -- to find the -- the
fault on the part of the State that's alleged here.
MR. NEIMAN: Well, more so than that, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did he tell the clerk of
court that he was only going to send it to Maples?
MR. NEIMAN: As far as I know, no, Your
Honor. But, of course, the clerk -- the notices came
back to the clerk long before the State's attorney sent
the letter in this case.
But that's an important point, I think, both
with respect to the clerk issue and also the abandonment
issue. The relevant question here is not what the
Assistant Attorney General of Alabama thought had
happened in this case. The relevant question on the
clerk issue is what the clerk knew, and that of course
is governed by Rule 7 of the rules governing admission
to the Alabama bar.
The relevant question on abandonment is, had
Maples in fact been abandoned? Had -- had these
attorneys left him completely without counsel? And the
record definitively establishes that that had not
happened, both because Mr. Butler remained counsel here
and in a much more meaningful way, I think, than my
friend suggests. And --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, could you tell
me -- I'm assuming you've practiced in your State for a
while.
MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How frequent is it in
the Alabama capital system that local counsel takes the
laboring oar, or even an active participation, in the
defense or actions of a capital defendant?
Your -- the amici here says generally they
did what Mr. Butler did; they just facilitated the --
the admission of the volunteer attorneys. Was that your
experience?
MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, of course, that
information's not in the record. We respectfully
disagree, as a factual matter, with the factual
assertions made by the amici on that front.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If we have to
send it back, I guess we'd have to say what the rule is.
So, what -- what is the rule? What about a rule that
says, where in fact attorneys do abandon the client and
the local attorney does as a matter of practice in the
State do virtually nothing except to facilitate foreign
representation, and where the State had cause to
believe -- cause to believe -- that all that was true,
then the State cannot assert this as an adequate ground.
That's all.
MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, a remand would not
be appropriate in this case on those -- on those grounds
for a number of reasons.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because?
MR. NEIMAN: One is that Rule 7 of the rules
governing admission to the Alabama bar made emphatically
clear that the role of local counsel was not simply --
JUSTICE BREYER: Irrespective of what the
rules were, you'd have to show -- he would have to show
that, in fact, in the State it is a practice such that
the local counsel doesn't do much of anything except
facilitate, because this is a state of mind as to
whether the State -- and the State knows that.
If he shows both of those things and shows
that the letter came back and shows this was abandonment
or close thereto, then the State ought to know that this
individual has no idea about filing a piece of paper and
thinks somebody else is doing it. And that's enough to
say this is not adequate State ground that would block
Federal habeas. Now, your argument against that is
what?
MR. NEIMAN: At least twofold, Your Honor.
One, as a simple matter, those factual assertions were
not made below. So, in order for the Court to remand on
that particular issue, it wouldn't be a remand for an
evidentiary hearing, on whether those allegations --
JUSTICE BREYER: It seems in the briefs --
there's certainly a lot in the briefs that seemed to say
that.
MR. NEIMAN: There's certainly a lot in the
briefs that says that. But one problem Mr. Maples faces
here is that he had the burden as the petitioner in this
habeas proceeding to make the requisite factual
allegations that he believed would establish cause.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Neiman, am I correct
that under the Alabama rules when an attorney is
represented by more than one attorney, the notice does
not have to go to all of them?
MR. NEIMAN: That is correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It can only go to one,
right?
MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, as far as local counsel
knew, he was the only one to receive notice of this
thing, right?
MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it correct or
does the notice -- most of the notices I see list the
people who have been served. Were the New York people
listed on the notice that went to Butler?
MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor. The notice --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then he knew
he wasn't the only one getting notice.
MR. NEIMAN: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or he knew that he
was the only one who was supposed to get notice.
MR. NEIMAN: Well, the -- the cc line in
this case cannot establish cause and cannot be deemed
State interference for any number of reasons. The first
is that -- I suppose it could only be held to establish
cause if it would have been reasonable for Mr. Butler to
assume that the cc line communicated a message that it
was perfectly okay for him to do nothing and to not take
further action, based on what is in the cc line. And
there are at least three reasons why that would not be a
reasonable reading of the cc line.
The first is that the cc line doesn't
communicate that Ingen-Housz and Munanka, who were the
people listed on the cc line, will in fact receive the
order. All it says is that the order will be sent to
Ingen-Housz and Munanka.
The second is that the -- even if it would
have been reasonable for him, for Mr. Butler, to assume
that Ingen-Housz and Munanka would receive the -- the
order in this case, it would not have been reasonable
for him to have done nothing, given that Rule 7 of the
Alabama rules made him jointly and severally responsible
for -- to the client and to the court in this case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess the problem is,
accept the rule; it exists. But if a lawyer says, I
don't care, I'm not going to do whatever the rules
required me to do, what more do you need for
abandonment?
If a lawyer comes in and says, I understand
this is a rule of the court; I understand that I'm
supposed to do x, y, and z; I don't care; I'm just
not -- that's the question.
MR. NEIMAN: Yes, well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the difference
between "I don't care" and abandonment?
MR. NEIMAN: I -- Your Honor, I guess I
should just make -- just make a couple points in
response to that. The first is that, as I understood
the question posed about the cc line, that is all about
not abandonment, but whether the clerk -- the clerk's
actions can be blamed for -- or the default can be
blamed on the clerk.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We're not talking about
the notice issue; we are talking about the abandonment
question.
MR. NEIMAN: On the abandonment question, if
it really were -- if it really is true that Butler had
decided he was going to do nothing in this case and not
represent his client and not be an attorney for the
client, then there might be a viable argument that
Butler was not -- was not -- had abandoned the client in
some way, but that is not the -- a reasonable reading of
the record in this case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If we find --
MR. NEIMAN: Butler --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If we find that these
lawyers did abandon their client, will there be some
sanction imposed upon them by the bar? I often wonder,
just as when we find that there's been inadequate
assistance of counsel in a capital case, does -- does
anything happen to the counsel who have been inadequate
in a capital case?
MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, I suppose it would
depend on exactly what the allegations are --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Have you ever heard of
anything happening to them? Other than they're getting
another capital case?
(Laughter.)
MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, I have not.
Certainly the rules would provide that a breach of the
rules of professional responsibility would be
sanctionable by the State bar, both against the Alabama
attorney here and the New York attorney.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You said a few
moments ago that Butler did more than your friend
suggested. What more did he do?
MR. NEIMAN: Well, of course, we discussed
in the briefs the very -- the undisputable fact that
Butler filed numerous things, and after the default
occurred in this case. But even --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, after the
default, sure. But what did he do before?
MR. NEIMAN: Butler's affidavit certainly --
that was filed in the State court proceedings certainly
doesn't say: I'm -- I was in this only to swear these
people in or move for their admission and nothing else.
What Butler says --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What did he do more
than that?
MR. NEIMAN: Butler said -- says, on page
255a of the petition appendix, that he agreed to serve
as local counsel. "Local counsel" has a specified
meaning under Alabama law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you made a
fairly serious suggestion that your friend had not
accurately represented what Butler did. And you still
haven't told me one thing he did more than move the
admission of the out-of-town attorneys.
MR. NEIMAN: Well, let me withdraw any
suggestion that I am saying that Butler had in fact done
something that's -- that's clear on the record.
And my time is up. May I finish?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
MR. NEIMAN: The -- my point was that Butler
did not simply agree just to move these people -- move
these people's admission. Butler said he would be local
counsel. And local -- the role of local counsel is
defined by Rule 7. It includes an obligation to attend
hearings, conferences, and the like. It also --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Thank you.
Mr. Garre, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT BY GREGORY G. GARRE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
We agree that this is a sui generis case.
The facts are extraordinary, the facts are shocking, and
our position is simply that under this Court's
precedents and the extraordinary facts here, Mr. Maples
has established cause to excuse the default.
With respect to local counsel, apart from
the fact that the State communicated directly with Mr.
Maples, an extraordinary step after the default, maybe
the other telling thing is that in 2006, Alabama itself
eliminated the local counsel requirement for pro bono
proceedings, recognizing that it could only create
problems; it didn't add anything.
With respect to abandonment, I understood at
times my counsel -- my friend, to acknowledge that
abandonment may establish an external event with respect
to the client. If that's so, then I think it's clear
that we're at a minimum entitled to a remand. There
were statements about what was clear from the record. I
think, at a minimum, the record is not clear on a number
of things that this Court would have to get into if it
were going to consider adopting the State's position
that Mr. Maples was not abandoned. Mr. Maples was in a
prison cell. His attorneys of record did not tell him
that they had left the firm. They were required not
only to tell the court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We don't have to adopt the
State's position that he was not abandoned. We have to
adopt your position that he was abandoned.
MR. GARRE: And you have a record of the
attorneys leaving with not only not notifying Mr.
Maples, not notifying the court, and not obtaining the
court's approval, which is required by Rule 6.2 of the
Alabama Rules of Criminal Procedure.
JUSTICE ALITO: What is troubling to me
about the abandonment argument is that -- is the fear
that if the Court says that abandonment is cause, there
will be many, many cases in which the allegation is: My
attorney wasn't just ineffective and negligent; the
attorney was so bad that the attorney in effect
abandoned me.
And that will substantially change existing
law. Now, how can that be prevented?
MR. GARRE: Working through agency
principles that go back to Justice Story's time, working
through the principles established in this Court's
decision in Holland and that will be applied in Holland.
The lower court in Holland issued its decision on remand
and found that Mr. Collins had abandoned Mr. Holland,
using this Court's precedent as a guide.
So, I think Holland already recognizes that
attorney abandonment can be external. We're just asking
the Court to apply the same principles and recognize
that what's external in one context cannot be not
external in the other context.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, do you know how
often Holland relief has been granted -- since it's very
recent, but how -- how frequently Holland relief has
been granted by the courts below?
MR. GARRE: I don't know the answer to that
question. I'm not aware of any flood of relief in such
cases. I expect that this would be very extreme. I
think the facts here are about as extreme as you can
get.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Garre, how do we
distinguish between abandonment and simply a botched, a
very botched, transfer of responsibility within a law
firm?
MR. GARRE: Well, where you have counsels of
record leaving without obtaining the approval that
they're required or telling the Court, I think that is
abandonment pure and simple. Beyond that, you would
look to agency principles, whether there's a breach of
loyalty. This is going to be a fact -- you would want
to get into the facts, although I think it is a very
high bar. I think the Holland decision makes clear it's
a high bar. I think this case clearly passes that bar,
but it's something that the courts will work out
applying agency principles, applying the Court's
decision in Holland.
Recognizing what Holland said in this case
isn't going to create any new rule; it's simply going to
extend logically the recognition that attorney
abandonment is external to the client as it always has
been under agency principles.
With respect to notice, this Court doesn't
have to find a constitutional violation on the State's
part. It's enough for cause that the Court finds that
the State's actions are external. And I think the key
inquiry is what Justice Kagan recognized, which is you
look to what a person who is actually desirous of
providing notice would do. In this situation, the clerk
got two notices back, "Left Firm." It opened it up; it
would have seen this is an order in a capital case, and
it did nothing. I don't think anyone who actually
desired to provide notice of an inmate with his life on
the line would do nothing, reasonably, in that
situation.
Mr. Maples is not asking to be released from
prison. He's asking for an opportunity to present
serious constitutional claims of ineffective assistance
of counsel to a Federal habeas court on the merits.
If the claims are as meritless as the State
suggests, that clearly will have little burden on it.
But simply allowing those claims to be adjudicated on
the merits in Federal court will go a long way to
preserving the legitimacy of the system of criminal
justice in a case in which a man's life is at stake.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
55:10 actual 30:1 41:12 18:9 20:18 23:11 19:2 28:1,20 35:5 assertions 50:13
30:16 31:8 added 20:13 36:12,21,23 40:17 APPEARANCES assessment 32:22
39:3 45:17 addition 12:13 40:18 41:25 42:20 1:16 39:6
55:4 58:15 address 24:23 31:9 42:22 43:8,17 appeared 13:6 assistance 42:8
59:8,16 35:25 43:11,12 44:16 49:11,15 appears 13:23 55:13 61:18
22:6,13,16,21 adequate 16:7,14 53:25 55:25 56:21 12:24 14:18 24:11 associate 12:22
26:18 30:19 44:25 50:22 58:2 59:1 27:12 56:19 associates 23:21
51:17 Alito 13:1 22:4,19 applied 24:16,17 assume 3:24 35:9
29:9 30:23 adjudicated 61:22 22:25 25:22 41:15 28:3 59:14 37:3 48:21 53:10
37:14,23 admission 5:16 6:2 42:17,19 43:1 59:2 apply 28:6 59:20 53:21
44:24 45:4 9:13 13:7,12 49:14 Alito's 43:16 applying 60:21,21 assumed 9:13 16:24
49:9,16 50:8 51:4 56:14 allegation 59:5 appoint 20:16,19 assuming 21:18
54:6,13,18 57:1,9 allegations 20:6 appointment 20:19 40:25 49:24
58:6,8 admit 8:4 51:24 52:7 55:17 appropriate 24:19 assumption 11:23
60:8,14 adopt 58:19,21 allege 36:13 26:17,19 28:4 29:8 11:25
adopting 58:14 alleged 13:15 32:11 42:24 43:22 50:25 attend 57:11
adversary 35:4 allow 13:18 17:10 60:12 4:25 5:2 12:5 13:8
advise 46:10 allowed 19:10 36:17 argued 28:11,18 16:2,5 25:10 30:1
26:25 31:18 advocating 29:23 allows 19:2 2:8 3:3,6 24:10 38:1,2 39:19 41:25
56:11 amicus 6:7 12:7 37:16 39:7,15 50:18 52:9,10 55:2
agent's 25:25 anybody 34:8 arranged 46:15 22:2,17,23 23:2
24:12 57:19 apparently 24:4 arsenal 36:22 40:10 42:6 46:22
agreed 23:10 27:8 appeal 17:7 18:11 aside 22:19 47:8,17,17 49:18
20:8 21:15 ahead 23:21 19:15,19 35:1,11 asking 26:4 27:15 58:23
23:25 25:17 Aid 24:2 36:17,24 42:3,7,13 29:25 59:19 61:16 attorney's 16:13
29:3 AISG 45:4 42:15,20,25 43:19 61:17 25:17 28:7
50:5 54:19 Alabama 1:7,20 4:8 44:1,3,8 48:5 assert 16:14 36:21 attributable 3:16,20
18:5 25:13 better 10:5 23:5 50:5 55:13,15,20 37:25 43:3 30:25 40:18,20
33:8 47:21 61:11 certainly 14:24 41:7,7,8,19 48:23
bind 27:9 case 3:4,10,14,20 55:23 56:11,12 clerk's 5:23 6:18 7:7
35:2 36:25 bono 4:13 23:19 11:14,17 12:7,12 changes 43:11 26:1 28:8 31:17,19
58:3 13:5,8,14 14:4,10 characterization 31:20 38:1,3 45:8
20:7 22:9 47:5,19 50:14 51:2 31:8 32:10 34:15 29:20 30:4,11,14 Coleman 25:12 28:2
26:5 27:18 51:6,25 35:12,14 36:24 34:18,22 37:2,20 28:5,21 29:22 44:6
30:5 32:17 brief 6:9 12:7 19:25 37:11,17 41:1,17 38:4,9 44:23 52:20 44:19 45:1
36:5,8 26:7 41:21,23 42:2,2 52:25 53:3 56:2,9 collateral 30:20
39:21 briefs 6:7 17:4 26:13 43:13,24 44:4,6 56:16,22 57:6,13 Collins 59:16
41:11 46:23 51:25 52:1,4 56:6 45:1,19 46:15,17 57:18 62:2 combine 39:12
49:6 50:15 burden 52:5 61:21 47:13 48:19 49:7 Circuit 3:22 24:10 come 4:18 13:9 30:5
59:12 61:10 Butler 5:15 8:1 9:11 49:12 50:25 53:6 26:15 42:23 35:23 36:4 46:23
44:4 49:15 30:2 32:19,20 37:5 57:19 60:19,23 circumstances coming 16:8 41:2
55:11,25 39:16,18 43:12 61:11,25 62:4,5 16:12 19:4 40:15 COMMISSION...
45:19,21 47:11 cases 6:1 11:3,9,12 42:5 43:18,22 1:7
56:24 57:3,7,9 cause 3:11 21:6 claims 19:23 20:1 53:10 57:25
3:7 29:19 calculated 48:5 61:5 47:2 51:5 57:4 conclusion 16:6
capital 4:5,7 10:25 cautious 25:2 58:9,11,12 60:18 concurring 25:22
50:21,21 20:17,25 24:3 cell 18:9 58:16 clerk 4:19 5:19,21 17:24 25:10,12,25
52:7 41:1,17 42:2 50:3 certain 13:24 32:2 8:21,22 9:9,15 conferences 57:12
18:11 20:12,16 59:20 60:13 61:3,5 default 3:12,13,20 disclaimed 5:15,18
43:10,10 46:5 covered 17:5 45:15 50:5 disposing 40:25
49:20,23 50:3 51:5 created 14:15 17:9 defending 23:22 distinctions 25:8
12:3 57:10,10,13,24 13:7 43:24 59:1 define 13:22 14:7 district 27:25 28:19
61:4,18 62:2,3 critically 12:12 defined 57:11 doctrine 45:5
33:24 37:18 40:16 D 3:1 describes 12:20 D.C 1:10,17
32:6 56:5 day 41:12 desirous 61:8 E
34:2,9 35:15 court 1:1,14 3:9,11 De 24:6,7 32:9,11 determinative 39:8 E 2:1 3:1,1
38:8 45:5 3:17 6:9 8:15 32:15 45:19 46:15 39:9 earlier 43:16 44:24
11:19,21,23 13:23 46:16 determine 45:7 45:5
21:9,14,24 22:18 48:20 difference 6:24 effect 33:25 41:4,19
6:1,12,20 7:9 28:5,19,19 29:8,12 decide 16:11 21:5 direct 3:12 17:11 47:24
8:4,17,18 29:21,25 33:7,8 21:11,17,18 18:18,20 19:15 Eleventh 3:22 24:10
9:8,11,21,22 41:11,18,20 43:8,8 decided 33:13,22 directed 14:16 26:15 42:23
12:9,17 43:11,18,20,24 55:1 20:10,12 eliminated 58:3
13:3,4 44:4,6 45:7 46:2,7 decides 35:17 directly 9:3,23 15:3 emphatically 51:4
46:9,10 47:2,12,15 decision 3:21 18:11 47:24 57:25 entitled 58:10
15:5,7,9 48:8,23 49:3 51:22 26:15 42:9 59:14 disabled 38:23 envelope 4:19
54:1,8 56:12 58:13 59:15 60:18,22 disagree 32:22 39:5 equitable 44:22
58:8 59:19,21,22 61:1,6 faxing 15:3 12:18 33:15 57:15,16,18
29:3 extraordinary 3:13 features 17:13 found 3:11 27:10 60:11
59:13 4:20 7:6 8:23 12:2 Federal 10:17,21,22 59:16 general 1:19 7:2
19:6,11 28:6 57:20 24:25 25:15 33:8 frequently 59:25 41:25,25 44:16
20:9 F 25:15 front 35:8 42:18 Georgia 20:20
facilitate 13:19 fictional 23:8 fulfilling 18:7 Ginsburg 5:18 9:4
38:13,13 facilitating 5:16 6:1 42:6 47:22 48:6 functionary 6:18 32:14 33:4,6,15
9:13 filed 56:7,12 7:11 38:17 39:1 43:25
48:18 55:17 39:10,11 40:6 22:4,20 24:16,20 32:5 38:13 53:12 given 29:5 53:24
45:4 56:6 57:3,25 60:16 finding 23:3,4 30:22 G 1:17 2:3,9 3:1,6 go 9:7 11:4 18:13
44:12 57:23 37:19 finds 61:5 Garre 1:17 2:3,9 3:5 32:17 33:8 37:1
factual 46:22 50:12 58:17 60:10 61:10 11:7,10,14 12:4,16 22:9,16 25:19 32:1
29:10,11 fair 6:13 35:9 27:19 28:9,13 17:19,22 18:3,13 60:16,24,24
41:14 falls 28:25 53:7,15 54:16 19:22 20:7,14,18 44:9,18,20
25:4 60:25 far 6:12 13:16 32:14 flood 60:3 21:19,22 22:1,6,8 goofed 22:11
hold 11:25 29:25 inadequate 55:12 invoke 35:18 16:10,11,17,19,20
21:20 24:16,16,20 includes 57:11 24:8 29:6 40:5,8 18:23,24 19:5,10
3:6 57:16 59:16,18,24,25 independent 21:14 24:9,13 32:10 21:20,25 22:3,4,5
37:6 50:22 8:13,25 24:19 30:9 indicating 43:20 Irrespective 51:6 25:19,22 26:2,5,23
31:6,10,14,18 32:6 indication 31:16 irretrievably 26:9 27:2,5,13,17 28:9
50:25 36:1,9,19,25 37:7 23:9 51:15 49:13 51:23 54:22 30:14 31:2,7,11,15
38:25 39:6,14 24:2 59:15 33:15,24 34:3,7,10
47:1 48:2 61:18 J 36:23 37:1,10,20
47:22 51:18 52:12,15,19,24 information 47:12 jobs 37:12 38:24 40:24 41:4,15
61:19 54:14 55:16,22 48:2 John 1:19 2:6 29:18 42:17,19 43:1,15
48:4,18 49:12 47:16 51:15 53:19,22 Jones 31:1 50:2,14 51:2,6,25
ignoring 25:3,5 initial 37:2 41:22 JR 1:19 2:6 29:18 52:8,13,16,20,25
38:13 41:3,21 49:8 8:3 4:9,14,20,23 5:8,9 justify 25:5 27:14
importantly 23:6 interest 11:1,16 5:18 6:3,16,23 7:8 30:22
39:20 40:19 34:21 40:13 55:21 level 3:15 23:20 49:21
60:7 61:7 law 3:16 5:3 17:18 lie 35:5 M means 31:8,12
19:14 20:5 32:23 36:18,20 light 45:18 48:7 majority 20:22 21:1 mention 6:12
36:6,10 44:14,15 56:21 likelihood 20:13 making 14:3 41:16 merely 45:9
43:15 44:11 59:10 60:9 40:7 malfeasance 37:23 merit 19:18 36:14
32:19 45:8 54:3,7 61:14 9:23 10:4,10 12:4 mind 51:10
15:7,15 23:9,12 30:17,23 listed 27:3 52:23 17:17 18:2,5,8,9 58:10,12
41:2 31:12 33:19 34:25 53:17 20:3 22:22 23:1,10 minutes 57:15
52:17,25 37:11 39:16 40:3 litigation 24:1 40:2 26:14 27:8 29:22 misaddressed 35:22
45:25 47:25 48:13 40:5 44:13 29:25 30:7,16 missed 48:5,19,20
8:17 14:4 lawyer's 45:12 local 4:24,25 5:2,13 33:17,19,23 34:11 Montgomery 1:20
15:1,11 leading 3:13 5:20 6:1,12,20 7:9 39:16 42:3 46:6,8 months 13:11 19:17
leaving 58:23 60:12 7:17,25 9:7,22 46:14,17 47:10,21 41:1
22:16 led 44:22 10:11 12:9,17,23 47:24 48:6,10,13 Morgan 40:18
Leeuw 24:8 32:11 13:2,5,9,9,11 49:3,17 52:4 57:22 morning 3:4
27:2 32:15 45:19 46:15 15:19 16:5 22:10 58:1,15,15,24 motion 9:17 42:14
31:15 32:9 46:16 22:20 40:4,8 50:3 61:16 move 13:12 31:21
36:19 37:10 Leeuw's 24:6 32:9 50:18 51:5,9 52:16 Maples's 3:14 37:11 56:14,25
38:15,17,18 left 4:18 17:18 18:7 56:20,20 57:9,10 23:12 34:25 39:15 57:8,8
40:6 44:15 22:17,23 37:4 57:10,24 58:3 43:13 47:17,17 moved 13:7 42:6
47:3 49:4 45:19 46:20 47:18 logically 60:25 marked 4:18 moves 31:22
59:23 60:2 49:18 58:17 61:10 long 49:6 61:23 material 19:23 Mullane 11:14
48:23 28:4 33:25 35:18,23 36:3,4 42:1 43:2 50:12,18 multiple 32:25
30:17 46:25 legwork 14:4 22:12 look 12:21 13:1,2 matters 26:8 33:1 45:17,22
33:22,25,25 35:1 looked 25:18 48:3,3 11:8 15:9 16:13 53:19,22
37:4 39:25 looking 18:4 19:7,22 23:19 murder 20:4,4
30:9 52:21 61:10 ordinarily 7:24 46:6 52:22,22 42:19
31:6,10,14 notified 43:10 23:24 53:17 56:14 57:8 possible 16:1
32:6,21 notify 18:8 33:20 ordinary 12:16 people's 57:9 postconviction
34:2,6 notifying 22:18 13:16 perfectly 11:24 10:25 17:11 18:25
35:7,15 58:23,24 ought 7:6 51:14 53:11 19:7,9 20:16 35:5
37:7 number 21:2 30:24 outset 8:2,7 22:16 perform 7:15,18 posture 16:9
38:8,11 51:1 53:7 58:12 24:1 performed 8:3 potential 36:21
39:5,14 numerous 56:7 out-of 39:8 performing 8:2 power 44:9
41:10 42:11 out-of-State 4:7,13 12:10 practice 13:2 23:16
43:6,23 O 4:17,21 5:16,25 permission 23:18,23 27:11 50:18 51:8
45:3 46:11 O 2:1 3:1 6:11,14 7:5 8:4 person 14:23 36:3 practiced 49:24
47:1,8 48:1 oar 50:4 9:10,21 12:22,24 39:25 41:3,8 43:9 pragmatic 39:21
49:4 obligation 5:5 31:1 13:3,7,19 15:16 61:8 precedent 59:17
51:3,20 41:20,22 42:1 46:2 18:6 20:12 personally 40:15 precedents 57:22
46:8 47:9 57:11 out-of-time 42:7,15 person's 36:2 precluded 37:12
53:2,5 54:11 obtain 47:12 42:20,25 43:19 perspective 5:23 prepared 30:15
55:8,16 obtaining 58:24 44:1,3 38:10 37:25
56:5,11,18 60:12 out-of-town 38:22 petition 8:10 27:12 preparing 32:3,7,12
obviously 47:15 57:1 27:23 29:9,10 48:6 prerogative 44:5
17:16,18 18:6 56:8 P 3:1 2:10 3:7 35:10,17 present 61:17
29:4 47:18 October 1:11 page 2:2 8:10 9:20 44:7 52:5 57:17 preserving 61:24
56:1 60:24 office 6:18 7:7 12:23 14:17 24:11 piece 51:15 press 44:16
38:4 53:11 paper 51:15 places 41:19 presumption 31:19
8:1 9:6,12 once 6:12 11:21 21:4 24:23 35:9 play 14:13 prevented 59:10
13:23 43:2 37:18 44:5,19 46:8 played 38:16 principal 40:3,9
12:2 ones 23:10 48:24 61:5 player 7:21 8:25 principle 26:3
14:3 15:12 onus 12:22 participation 50:4 pleading 32:24 principles 3:17
16:4,6 30:1 opened 61:10 particular 38:6,14 please 3:9 29:21 25:11,18,19 29:23
31:3,25 opinion 25:23 45:7 51:23 point 6:5 7:14,24 44:22 59:12,13,20
34:7 opportunity 43:4,6 particularly 24:21 14:8 24:9 25:9 60:15,21 61:2
36:2,4 39:20 61:17 29:5 35:13 40:7 33:16 34:14,22 prior 17:17,21
41:9,12 oppose 42:14 43:25 41:13 36:11 47:2,9 49:8 prison 9:24 15:4
47:21,24 44:1,3 parties 10:16 20:10 57:7 18:9 58:16 61:17
opposition 6:9 47:12 points 5:12 28:15 pro 4:13 23:19 58:3
54:22 61:3 oral 1:13 2:2,5 3:6 party 29:2 32:25 54:15 problem 27:25
47:10 52:4 Q receives 6:19 remainder 29:14 2:7 29:19
question 6:17 15:1 receiving 11:1,16 remained 49:20 response 32:20
36:13,17 37:2,21 38:14 recognize 37:25 remand 24:17 26:16 responsibilities
44:4,13,20,21 39:22 41:6,7,23 42:3 59:20 26:20 50:24 51:22 13:24,25 14:11
19:16 23:9 questioning 43:17 59:18 remember 13:5 53:25
52:6 questions 20:15 recognizing 10:4 reply 19:25 result 20:4
19:9 35:20 41:16 record 5:13 6:4 7:10 22:22 23:1,10 27:8 30:21 31:2
38:14 48:8 quite 8:1 12:8 20:1 8:8,18,18,19 9:10 38:21 47:2 55:2 returned 4:11 5:7
58:4 36:1 40:17 13:14,24 14:16,25 representation 4:5 6:20 7:5 31:3
31:1 35:18 22:25 23:5 26:6,7 50:20 reveals 35:1
R 26:9,21,24 27:3,7 representative reversed 3:22 27:21
raised 29:9,10 33:21 38:18,19 15:5 16:3 18:10 right 4:2,14 5:7 8:12
15:18 16:2 real 7:13 8:20 22:16 49:19 50:11 55:6 30:7 37:13 38:19 25:7 31:5 33:10
10:3,4 54:25,25 regard 24:22 32:18 request 27:24 28:13 42:14 44:8 50:14
reason 15:17 38:20 regarding 47:11 require 10:17 52:14,18 53:2
55:23 61:13 18:10 53:9,14,21 rejected 28:20 58:17,25 60:13 ROBERTS 3:3,23
57:16 relevant 49:10,12 respect 20:21 22:1 53:3 56:2,9,16,22
52:16 55:7,9,18 51:12,12,13 state 3:12 4:4 5:11 substitutions 46:4,4
second 3:14 6:2 side 4:10 9:19,20,23,24 10:3 successful 19:24
29:1 32:5,20 see 13:2 41:15 47:6 signed 13:12 15:10,18 16:1,2,7 45:3 56:4
35:10 41:19 52:21 signify 30:24 16:12,14,14 18:21 suggestion 45:6
43:2 49:14 seek 18:22 similar 41:21 19:1,8 20:15,20 56:23 57:3
51:3 seen 61:11 simple 51:21 60:14 21:9 25:3 26:6 suggests 36:20
54:3,8 57:11 send 9:17 27:18,18 simply 6:1 12:1,8 30:19 32:18 34:15 49:22 61:21
60:24 28:5 32:20 33:13 13:18 22:11 25:16 35:5 36:12 42:14 sui 41:17 57:19
12:21 47:21,22,23,24 60:8,24 61:22 44:1,2,3,5,9,10,11 29:6 31:4,13 32:12
40:23 41:18 48:9 49:3 50:15 single 36:21 44:17 44:12,25 45:15 33:2 35:23 36:3
45:15 49:14 Sender 4:18 sitting 18:9 47:16 48:8,24 37:3,8 38:16 39:2
52:9 53:25 sends 6:19 situation 21:21 49:24 50:19,20,22 39:17 45:20 47:25
55:23,24 59:1 sense 10:11 12:6 22:15 25:6 28:3 51:8,10,11,11,14 suppose 37:9 53:8
30:5 36:8 Society 24:2 statement 34:11 39:21,22 53:4 54:9
57:3 56:19 6:16,23 17:2 20:14 46:22 47:3 49:6 suspect 40:14
39:16 44:19 20:12 32:24 33:1,2 21:16,20,25 22:3 statistics 19:19,21 switch 31:16
52:4 53:18 52:22 24:14,22 35:3,12 19:22 35:8 system 4:4,21 5:24
56:15,18 service 32:23 37:1,10 48:11 statute 24:24 6:5,11 7:3 13:5
serving 12:5 43:13 49:23 50:2 54:2,12 stays 31:20 17:9,10,13 19:2
8:6,11,14,17 sets 19:1 sought 19:12 stop 45:25 46:9
10:12,16,21 setting 17:24 21:12 speak 15:13 Story's 22:9 25:19 T
13:22 severally 53:25 specific 23:11 59:12 T 1:6 2:1,1
16:17,19,20 shocking 17:15 specifically 6:10 stress 38:12 tainted 26:9
57:20 11:14 27:10 stronger 37:17 take 3:25 13:10,14
22:5,10 short-circuited 28:1 specified 56:20 submitted 62:4,6 36:15 37:14 53:11
28:9,12 shot 20:2 spend 23:21 substance 40:5 taken 47:11
31:2,7,11 show 17:25 22:25 squarely 28:25 substantial 30:10,12 takes 11:15 50:3
33:24 34:3,7 26:22 27:20,21 stage 35:10 42:12 36:14 40:7 talk 3:23
39:7 40:20 51:7,7 stake 11:18 61:25 substantially 37:17 talking 3:24 9:15
41:4 48:17 showed 32:18 standard 13:2 59:9 19:16 21:17 31:24
49:2 52:8,13 shows 5:13 32:15 standards 25:20 substitute 39:4 31:25 35:21 36:11
54:21,22 61:6,12 46:6,6 47:17 61:10 volunteered 34:11 wrong 31:9 35:25
49:2,23 58:16 33:18 34:23 36:13
36:15 44:13 y 54:9
49:11
12:1 35:18 38:12 60:16 years 6:10 48:7
41:8 York 5:10 14:22
time 10:6 17:18,21
54:7,8 Washington 1:10,17 18:6 22:17 47:18
62:1,2 25:19 29:14,14
48:3 34:7 39:19 42:15 young 22:22
46:22 timely 36:24 58:6 way 10:13 25:4 27:9
52:18 56:25 times 26:6 58:7 undisputable 56:6 29:24 34:4 42:1
told 27:6 43:17 46:7 undoubtedly 44:7 45:19 49:21 55:5 1
27:20 30:24 toto 30:23 16:25 went 7:5 9:6 33:9 10:03 1:15 3:2
56:7 58:13 touted 6:10 unfair 25:25 37:3 52:23 11:04 62:5
6:13 7:1 transaction 12:25 unique 5:24 38:18,20 39:17,18
10:9,24 11:7 transfer 60:9 United 1:1,14 46:7 2
12:8,16 trial 13:10 19:17 unquote 13:20 we'll 3:3 16:1 20 48:7
15:6,18 35:10 42:9 unreasonably 12:9 we're 19:16 23:25 2006 58:2
17:4,9,13,22 tried 13:8 unreceived 35:22 26:3 31:23,24,25 2011 1:11
19:6,13,17 troubling 59:2 unusual 42:5 38:5 39:22 46:3 223 27:12
20:7,21 true 16:10 50:21 usually 23:19 54:21 58:10 59:19 225 14:17
22:14,16 54:25 we've 19:24 28:11 2254 48:6
24:18,19 try 13:10 228 32:10
26:11,15,16 trying 29:22
withdraw57:2 256 8:10
27:24 28:11 Tuesday 1:11
turns 12:12
30:21,24 two 3:10 7:4 9:10
35:4,9,25 14:22 15:8 16:4
37:24 40:4 20:14 21:2,3 22:22
43:18 44:14 23:2 27:2 28:15
46:11,12 31:4,24 32:16
49:8,21 35:20 37:3 38:18
59:18 60:5 38:22,22,23 39:2
39:11,12 40:3 46:1
1:11 57:15
2:10
13:11
58:25
49:14 51:3 53:24
