IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
GLOBAL-TECH APPLIANCES, INC., :
ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 10-6
v. :
SEB S.A. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, February 23, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:13 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
WILLIAM DUNNEGAN, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf of
Petitioners.
R. TED CRUZ, ESQ., Houston, Texas; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
WILLIAM DUNNEGAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
R. TED CRUZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
WILLIAM DUNNEGAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:13 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next this morning in Case 10-6, Global-Tech Appliances
v. SEB S.A.
Mr. Dunnegan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM DUNNEGAN
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS
MR. DUNNEGAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The standard for the state of mind element
for a claim for inducing patent infringement should be:
Did the accused inducer have a purpose to induce a third
party to engage in acts that the accused inducer knew
infringed the patent? That's what I'll call the
purposeful, culpable test.
The Federal Circuit applied a standard of
whether Pentalpha was deliberately indifferent to a
known risk that a patent may exist. The Federal
Circuit's deliberate indifference test was not a willful
blindness test. Willful blindness would have required
both an awareness of a high probability that a patent
would exist and a deliberate effort to avoid learning
the truth.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's okay, as far as
you're concerned? You would consider that comes within
your first test?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Your Honor, deliberate
indifference would not fall -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would not, but willful
blindness would?
MR. DUNNEGAN: No, Your Honor. Willful
blindness would not fall within our purposeful, culpable
test.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So even willful blindness
wouldn't be enough?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Willful blindness in not a
purpose, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said that the
particular patent -- the defendant would have to know
that the device infringed the particular patent. I
think that would be a standard that would be impossible
to meet. We have to know if it was patent number,
whatever it was, '312.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Well, you wouldn't have to
know the patent number, Your Honor, but what you would
have to know is that your -- the product which you are
inducing a third party to make, use, or sell would be
within the scope of a -- of the claims of a particular
patent. If you don't know that, then you're
literally -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you can keep yourself
ignorant of it. I mean, for example, you pointed out
that the -- that the device that was copied was
purchased in Hong Kong, so it didn't have any marking,
but the same Pentalpha could have bought the device in
Montgomery Ward, looked to see if it had a patent
marking; didn't do that.
MR. DUNNEGAN: It didn't do that, Your
Honor. What it did was better. It hired a United
States patent attorney to conduct a search to see if
there was any patent which was infringed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But didn't tell that
patent attorney that they had reverse-engineered a
particular product. If the attorney had been told this
device copied the SEB fryer, isn't it 99 and 44/100ths
percent sure that the attorney then would have found
this patent?
MR. DUNNEGAN: We don't know, Your Honor.
We don't know why the patent search failed. It could
have failed for a number of reasons.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I didn't ask you
about this patent search. I said if they had told the
patent attorney we have copied a particular fryer, it's
SEB's fryer, now find out if it infringed any patent -
do you think an attorney would not have found the SEB
patent?
MR. DUNNEGAN: It's possible that he
wouldn't have. Maybe it's more probable that he would
have. There's just no evidence on that in the record,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why -- why wouldn't
you tell him? If you're -- if you're honestly
interested in finding out whether there is a patent that
you're infringing, why wouldn't you tell me the reason
we're concerned is that we have reverse-engineered this
from somebody else's product? Just check to see if SEB
has a patent on any of this stuff that we've
reverse-engineered. That's what I would have done.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Your Honor, maybe that's what
you would have done. Maybe that's what I would have
done, but there's no -- but the standard of that
business -- what they had done in the past was to give
their design drawings to the patent attorney and say
objectively check these design drawings. Their practice
was not to notify the attorney.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was their practice to
reverse-engineer from other people's products?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Yes -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, I can understand
when you have a new product of your own; of course, you
just give it to an attorney. But when you have
reverse-engineered, not to tell them that it was
reversed-engineered seems to me really trying to keep
yourself in the dark. What you want to get from the
attorney is a piece of paper that he can show to
Montgomery Ward that, yes, this product is not -- as it
turns out, Montgomery Ward did accept it and got hit
with liability for infringing a patent. I -- I find
that really incredible that, in an honest attempt to
find whether there was any patent infringement going on,
you wouldn't even tell the patent attorney that you've
reverse-engineered somebody else's product.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Your Honor, looking back at
this in hindsight, there's -- there's no question that
if they had to do it again, they would have taken the
additional step.
But -
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, they wouldn't.
MR. DUNNEGAN: No -- well, from an objective
perspective, Your Honor, if you're giving the design to
the -- to the attorney and you're saying do a complete
search, it seems to me that that's the antithesis of
being willful blind, because you're hiring a specialist
to go out and look for the answer for you. Now, the
gold standard was not met, but the gold standard would
rarely be met in any of these cases.
JUSTICE ALITO: But your position is that
even willful blindness is not enough. You have to have
actual knowledge that -- that the item is patented,
right?
MR. DUNNEGAN: That is correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: So if the attorney had
called up your client and said, I have an answer for
you, and the client said, well, you know what, on second
thought, I really don't want to know, because if I -- if
I have actual knowledge, that may put me in a box; so
forget about it. Then there's no liability.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Well, I would disagree in
that situation, because most probably the knowledge of
the attorney in that situation, because he has been
hired by the client, would be imputed to the client. So
I could see a different result in the hypothetical that
you posited.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why would we -- wouldn't
the rule that you're setting forth, willful blindness
not being a part of it, mean that nobody would ever get
a patent search, because what would be the inducement to
do that?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Well, Your Honor, right now,
under -- under the Seagate case in the Federal Circuit,
there is no inducement to go get a patent search. Under
the Seagate decision, if a party -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, but you're not
presumed to copy other people's items, which is the
difference.
Is there -- let me just ask you something.
Assuming we were to find the willful blindness test to
actual knowledge, the facts of your case, the fact that
they did not give the name of the product that they
copied to their patent attorney, is that just, as a
matter of law, willful blindness?
MR. DUNNEGAN: No, Your Honor, I don't think
that is willful blindness as a matter of law. Willful
blindness under the -- under the Santos standard has two
distinct elements. One would be that there's a high
probability that there would have been a patent on that
particular product.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do patents -- are
patents -- can you do a patent search on the basis of
the name of the holder?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Yes, you can, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And the product that
they copied, did it have the name of the holder of the
patent?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Yes, it did, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what is the
likelihood that if they had actually given the attorney
the name of the product, that he would not have found
the patent?
MR. DUNNEGAN: We don't know for sure, but
the probability would be greater than 50 percent, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think it would be
probably 90 percent, assuming -- because there's always
errors in searches. So -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But didn't we take this
case to determine whether or not deliberate indifference
is the standard? I mean, willful blindness -- I don't
think an opinion for this Court has ever sustained.
Santos was a judgment -- was not a majority opinion.
That's just a subset of knowledge.
If we leave that out from it, isn't the
dichotomy that you present to us the difference between
deliberate indifference and knowledge or -
MR. DUNNEGAN: Purpose.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- or purposeful, culpable
expression, the -- the Grokster standard?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Yes. The -- well, I think to
answer the question presented in a cert petition, you
really need to determine what the standard is. Now, I
think we can also decide that it should not be -- or we
can agree that it should not be a deliberate
indifference to a known risk that a patent exists,
because that would be met in virtually every situation
where there was not actual knowledge of a patent.
JUSTICE ALITO: When I look at the language
of the statute, I see no scienter requirement
whatsoever. Whoever actively induces infringement of
the patent -- infringement is strict liability. So if
you actively induce somebody to engage in conduct
constituting infringement, you're -- you're liable as an
inducer.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Let me explain to you why
your -- why the language of the statute should not
support the interpretation which Your Honor just gave.
Let's begin with the word "induces."
"Induces" connotes some degree of intent, arguably.
Mr. Cruz agrees with that at page 20 of his brief. If
you put the word "actively" in front of the word
"induces," then you have a heightened intent standard -
JUSTICE ALITO: You have intent, but intent
to do what?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Exactly, Your Honor. That
brings you to the word "infringement" in the statute.
Now, I think it's critical that (b) uses the word
"infringement." It does not go back to (a) and say
anyone who actively induces the making, using, selling
of a patent device is an infringer.
JUSTICE ALITO: What difference does that
make? Because making, using, and selling equals
infringement.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Because those are the acts,
Your Honor. If Congress's intent had been to say we
only want to induce acts, it would seem to me the
clearest way they could say that is to say "making,
using, or selling." If they wanted to create a standard
which was inducing the actual infringement of a patent,
as opposed to the acts which constitute the
infringement, then they use the word "infringement."
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I don't see that. And
not only that, I don't understand why the scienter
requirement for inducing should be higher than the
scienter requirement for a direct infringement. Isn't
the standard rule for aiding and abetting that the aider
and abetter -- if (b) is an aiding and abetting
provision, as one of the congressional reports said, the
-- the scienter for aiding and abetting is the scienter
of the underlying offense? So if the underlying offense
is a strict liability offense, then the inducement
should be strict liability as well.
MR. DUNNEGAN: That's not necessarily clear,
Your Honor. When you look at 18 U.S.C. section 2,
there's very little case law dealing with strict
liability offense and inducements of those. We have
been able to identify one Sixth Circuit case from 1989
which deals with the issue, and in that case, it holds
that there's actually a purpose to -- a purpose to cause
the underlying crime or violation, not necessarily
strict liability, not strict liability.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is your -
MR. DUNNEGAN: I -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry.
MR. DUNNEGAN: No, please, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is your position
when you're -- when you're talking about willful
blindness or purpose, whatever, is that with respect to
a particular patent, or is it with respect to
infringement of a patent?
I don't think it's true with deep fryers,
but in some areas, you almost always know you're going
to hit something, that given the nature of the industry,
you're going to infringe something. Is that enough?
MR. DUNNEGAN: If there is an area -- for
example, semiconductors, where some amici have stated
that there's -- there's 420,000 patents dealing with
semiconductors. And you know that, and you know that if
you do virtually anything, and especially if you copy,
you're going to hit a semiconductor patent owned by
somebody, I think that, in that rare situation,
knowledge that you're infringing someone's intellectual
property rights should probably be enough of a -- of a
directed intent. If you -- that would be the basis for
inferring a purpose.
But here, we have to -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's -- I
mean, I understand you're in the deep fryer industry,
but that standard would bring the semiconductor industry
to a halt.
MR. DUNNEGAN: No. No, Your Honor. If you
copied a semiconductor and you knew that there were
420,000 patents that were unexpired out there, that
would make it -- if you didn't do your -- your
diligence, perhaps -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think the -- the
problem is, even if you do do your diligence, given the
way patents are these days, if there are 420,000, you're
never going to know with any degree of comfort that
you're not going to infringe something.
MR. DUNNEGAN: That is very, very true, Your
Honor. And even in the -- in the deep-fryer industry,
it is going to be different, because there's very few --
I mean, compared to semiconductors -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we're not going to
adopt a special rule for the deep-fryer industry.
(Laughter.)
MR. DUNNEGAN: Agreed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Especially -
MR. DUNNEGAN: Completely agreed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But we might decide
that it's more important to consider what's going to
happen to the semiconductor industry in articulating our
standard than what's going to happen to the deep-fryer
industry.
MR. DUNNEGAN: That's exactly correct, Your
Honor.
(Laughter.)
MR. DUNNEGAN: That's exactly correct. And
on balance -- I think there's one point that I should
make sooner rather than later, and it's is the standard
that I'm -- the standard that we are proposing is not
unique to us. It's the -- it's the standard that
Grokster developed. And with respect to willful
blindness, we believe that the standard -- the balance
was already struck, and it was struck in favor of
eliminating a willful blindness standard.
I'd like to -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dunnegan, suppose I
disagree with you on that, and suppose I think that
actual knowledge of a patent or willful blindness as to
whether a patent exists is the right standard. Could a
reasonable jury have found that in this case?
MR. DUNNEGAN: We don't think that a
reasonable jury could have found willful blindness
because, first of all, there wasn't a high probability
that a patent would be found. Second, we do not think
that there was active -
JUSTICE KAGAN: A reasonable jury couldn't
have looked at the facts that Justice Ginsburg
suggested -- you know, you do not tell the lawyer that
you, in fact, have copied the product and say that's -
a reasonable jury -- that's willful blindness.
MR. DUNNEGAN: I don't think so, Your Honor,
because what we have done in that situation was, first,
we have done more than the law required. We went out to
get a patent. We gave the lawyer our actual patent
drawings and tell him to do his work.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if you really wanted
to know, wouldn't you have gone into Montgomery Ward and
bought one of the fryers and turned it around to see if
it had a patent number on it?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Your Honor, we have so many
products that you couldn't practically expect the
company to do that, I don't think.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Listen, the -- the reason
you got the opinion from the lawyer was -- was not to
make sure that there were no patents. It was to show
that opinion to Montgomery Ward.
MR. DUNNEGAN: But your -- your -
JUSTICE SCALIA: As a practical matter, you
needed an opinion from a lawyer, because otherwise,
Montgomery Ward was not going to sell this stuff.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Your Honor, I take issue with
you for the following reason: I don't think there was
any intention on the part of our client to -- to
infringe a patent at all, because if it knew about the
patent, it could have designed around it if it knew what
it was doing. There's no benefit to our client of
getting Montgomery Ward or Sunbeam or Fingerhut in
trouble for patenting infringement. We really want to
know what patents are out there.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But isn't -- isn't it
true that Sunbeam was the party that asked for the
patent search?
MR. DUNNEGAN: I don't believe that's in the
record, Your Honor. I believe the record shows that
Sunbeam was given a copy of the patent search, but
Mr. Sham testified -- and I believe this is about at
page 50 of the joint appendix -- that the purpose of the
search was to find out whether or not there was an
infringement of any patent through this deep fryer.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And there's nothing in
the record that says who -- who asked Pentalpha -
MR. DUNNEGAN: Not that I'm aware of, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- to get -- to get a
letter?
JUSTICE ALITO: If this is not willful
blindness, I don't know what willful blindness is. Now,
maybe you can explain what more would have been required
to permit a reasonable jury to find willful blindness.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Okay. I think you'd need two
things, Your Honor. The first that you would need is
evidence that they were going to bump into a patent if
they -- if they proceeded. Is there the high
probability of finding a patent?
Now, if you -- if you just consciously avoid
knowledge in the absence of a high probability, that's
not willful blindness. That's not even culpable.
JUSTICE ALITO: But your client -- I don't
know whether you're using your time most effectively by
arguing this point, but your client thought that making
a deep fryer that wouldn't burn people's hands if they
touched it would be profitable, because there wasn't a
lot of competition in that market. This was a useful
product and apparently one that was different from other
deep fryers. Isn't that in itself -- doesn't that in
itself suggest, gee, there might be a patent on -- on
this?
MR. DUNNEGAN: No, I -- well, is there -
JUSTICE ALITO: One company is making this
and it seems to be better than what the other companies
are making; maybe it might be patented.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Your Honor, the record is
that there were six or so deep fryers which were the
cool-touch deep fryers which they -- which they used as
references. SEB was not the only cool-touch deep fryer
that was available.
Now, to turn back to the issue of whether or
not Grokster actually found that willful -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Before -- before you pass
that question, then why as in '607 did they pick the SEB
fryer to reverse-engineer?
MR. DUNNEGAN: They reverse -- they looked
at all of them, Your Honor. They reverse-engineered all
of them. If you look at -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And then they copied the
design of the SEB.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Actually, Your Honor, they
improved it. There's functional features that went
beyond and were better than what were in the SEB
product. For example, they used better metal to make
the cast iron pan. They put the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there was a finding
that it was an infringement, that the Pentalpha fryer
infringed the SEB.
MR. DUNNEGAN: The jury did find that, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dunnegan, could I take
you to the standard? Because in Aro II we said that the
appropriate standard in subsection (c) was actual
knowledge. Why shouldn't we just say it's the same?
Whether it is (b) or (c), these are just two means of -
of doing a contributory infringement, and the
knowledge/willful blindness standard, once we've said it
applies to (c), it applies to (b) as well?
MR. DUNNEGAN: The reason that you shouldn't
take the standard from (c) is because (c) deals with
nonstaples and (b) deals with staples. Someone can be
liable under (b) if they -- if they sell a staple
article of commerce, when they can't be libel under (c),
even if they meet -- even if they meet the higher -
even they meet the state of mind element under (c),
which is knowing the patent and knowing that the
combination would be an infringement. Therefore, to
make sure that (b) does not swallow (c), it's very
important that (b) have a higher state of mind.
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, (b) and (c) have
different standards as to -- not the knowledge of the
patent but -- but what the person is -- the acts that
constitute infringement. But that's a different thing
from whether they should have different standards as to
the knowledge of the patent.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Well, when you say there's
different standards, the sale of an -- of a staple
article under (b) in itself with a proper state of mind
can be an inducement. The sale of a nonstaple article
with certain additional conditions can be a violation of
(c). The action element for (b) and (c) is -- is
essentially the same for the sale of components, and it
wouldn't make any sense to raise it for (b) because all
you would be doing in that situation is -- is
encompassing sellers that were helping their customers
do business more effectively, and you wouldn't be
getting any more bad guys.
The purpose of (b) is let's get the morally
culpable actors. Now -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I had thought that you
wanted us to take the knowing standard in (c) and apply
it to (b).
MR. DUNNEGAN: No, Your Honor, I -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Correct me if I'm wrong.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, more than that.
MR. DUNNEGAN: I would think you have to go
with the Grokster standard, Your Honor. And the reason
for that is, one, in Grokster you found what the state
of mind standard was for inducing infringement under
(b), and you moved that into the copyright law. Then,
under the -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Dunnegan, in
Grokster, there was no question as to whether they knew
that the -- that the things were copyrighted.
MR. DUNNEGAN: That was conceded in that
case, Your Honor. Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So why is Grokster relevant
here? They conceded the very thing that we're arguing
over.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Well, it's -- it's -- it's
relevant because it deals with the standard what is -
what is the state of mind element for inducing copyright
infringement.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you say it's
purposeful, culpable.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Purposeful, culpable conduct
-- yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And why is that -
how is that different from knowing? I -- I -- my
impression was the same as Justice Kennedy's. I thought
you wanted the knowing standard.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Knowing, well -- the way I
understand knowing, Your Honor, is that in Sony, for
example, there was no liability even though Sony knew
that some people were going to use the VCR to infringe
copyrighted works. That was collateral damage even
though they knew it; it wasn't the basis for liability.
In Grokster, the basis for liability was
even though the defendant knew that there were going to
be some infringements, it couldn't be liable for
contributory copyright infringement, the equivalent of
271(c), because there was substantial noninfringing uses
for the Grokster software. Grokster was -- was allowed
to be found liable because the defendants had a -- a
culpable objective -- they had a culpable purpose, or at
least a jury could so find, that they wanted to
encourage infringements.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm -- I'm a little
confused. If you knew that there was a patent under
(b), and you still gave the fryer -- patented the fryer
that you know it is a patented fryer to Montgomery Ward
or Sunbeam to sell, you're not liable under (b), because
why? What act of yours was not purposeful?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Your Honor, I believe the
first sentence of your question was if you knew that
there was a patent. Is that a hypothetical?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Okay. If we knew that there
was a patent and we knew the claims of the patent and we
read them and we -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, we'll go as to -
let's -- let's just stop there. Justice Kennedy and I
believe the Chief have asked you, isn't your entire
argument that we should move the knowing knowledge of
(c) into (b)? And you said no.
MR. DUNNEGAN: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Explain to me -
MR. DUNNEGAN: Because it should be -- it
should be higher. It should be the Grokster standard of
purposeful, culpable conduct. And -- me the reason for
that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, then explain to
me -
MR. DUNNEGAN: Okay.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- what's not purposeful
or knowing -- what's not purposeful, culpable conduct,
if you know there's a patent or -- you can decide
whether knowledge includes willful blindness or not, but
it's not my issue. If you know there's a patent and you
give the product to someone else to sell, how can you
not be culpable for it?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Because, Your Honor, if -
you could or you could not be, depending on what your
purpose is with respect to infringement. If you had a
legal opinion which told you that the sale of that
product would not infringe the patent, then you wouldn't
have a purposeful -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you're introducing a
mistake of law defense to knowledge. You're saying, I
really didn't know that it was unlawful. I knew that
there was a patent, but I really thought that it wasn't
a legal patent, so I was going to violate what I know
wasn't legal. Is that what you're saying?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Well, not exactly, Your
Honor, because if you're reaching the conclusion that
the product is not within the scope of the claims of the
patent, I don't think that's law. That's fact. The
reason it's not law is that -- it couldn't be repealed.
It's -- you can't pass a law abrogating a patent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you're
talking -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why do you get off the
hook for making a mistake of law?
MR. DUNNEGAN: A mistake of law -- generally
you don't get off the hook. What we have here is a
mistake of fact concerning the scope of the claim of the
patent. Now, granted, under -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You would never have any
patents enforced under your theory.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Yes, we would, Your Honor.
Let's take the situation that there was a prior
adjudication that the direct infringer was directly
infringing. Let's take the situation where there's
going to be advertising which references the patents, as
there was in Grokster and says go infringe it. Let's
take the situation where there's internal documents at
the company suggesting that there is a purpose to
infringe, as there was in Grokster.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if you're -- I'm
sorry. I do not want to interfere with your time.
MR. DUNNEGAN: No, Your Honor. Please.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'll wait.
MR. DUNNEGAN: If the Court has no further
questions, I would like to reserve my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Cruz.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF R. TED CRUZ
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MR. CRUZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Whatever test that this Court adopts for
inducing infringement, the central objective of that
test will be to separate culpable bad actors from
innocent corporate behavior actors. And by any measure,
Pentalpha in this case was a culpable bad actor. In
fact, we've got really extraordinary testimony in this
case -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So would you have any
objection to an actual knowledge willful blindness
standard? Would that be all right with you?
MR. CRUZ: I think that is one of multiple
standards this Court could adopt if this Court were to
adopt actual knowledge. I do not think actual knowledge
is in the statute, but if this Court were to adopt
actual knowledge and conclude also that willful
blindness is a long-recognized means of demonstrating
actual knowledge, that would support the judgment.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I take it that we would do
that on the basis of Aro II? We would just say that's
the standard for (c) and that should be the statement
for (b)?
MR. CRUZ: Respectfully, Justice Kagan, I
don't think that would be an interpretation that is
faithful to the text of 271. There is an enormous
difference between 271(c) and 271(b). 271(c) includes
the word knowing. 271(b) does not include the word
knowing and your question assumes essentially -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, 271(c) includes the
word knowing, you have to know that an item has no
noninfringing uses. That is a different kind of
knowledge than the knowledge that we are talking about
here.
MR. CRUZ: Respectfully, in Aro II what the
Court did and it was, as you know, a splintered majority
in Aro II where the dissenters flipped back and forth,
but with the particular paragraph that addressed the
holding on what had to be demonstrated, the Court
concluded that that word knowing effectively modified
both the knowledge that the nonstaple article had no
noninfringing use and, and that it would cause the
infringement. That is how the Court read knowing, as
modifying everything that follows it in 271(c).
JUSTICE KAGAN: And because of the
infringement, but not necessarily that there was a
patent, not necessarily the legal effect as opposed to
the act.
MR. CRUZ: Well, that is necessarily part of
what the Court held in 271(c). And I would agree, this
would be a very, very different case if 271(b) had the
word knowing. I mean Aro in many ways was a much easier
case, but the question is do you have to demonstrate
that something is knowing and the statute says it must
be knowing, then that is -
JUSTICE BREYER: How do you say, I am not
certain that willful blindness would support the
conclusion below. The standard, the district court or
the trial court said really, negligence, as I read it.
The circuit said deliberate disregard of a known risk.
Well, how much of a risk? I mean, the business world
there is always a risk and we are talking about a
complicated world, probably quite a lot of risk. And so
I think that standard would create a great deal of
uncertainty. Willful blindness has a tradition. So are
you okay with willful blindness and we say we are afraid
they did not do it, i.e., we are afraid, we do not know
what they really meant here and so send it back and do
it again. I am sure you wouldn't be overjoyed. But do
you think that would be a reasonable result?
MR. CRUZ: I think if the conclusion were to
send it back and do it again, I don't think that would
be a reasonable result.
JUSTICE BREYER: What are you supposed to
say known risk, sure he says he looked at five. And he
says anybody can figure this thing out, all you do is
put the little gizmos between the two sides, you know,
and you have an inside and outside and you just suspend
the inside with little bars of some kind. I do not know
what, chewing gum or something, and he says anybody
could figure that out, it couldn't possibly be bad. And
so that is their view, but how much of a risk, they will
say little risk, big risk. So you see why I think we
should send it back. Now you tell me why that is not -
MR. CRUZ: That is what they argued to the
jury and that's -
JUSTICE BREYER: I am not saying they are
right in that, I bet they would lose. But my problem is
do I accept the words deliberate disregard of the known
risk or do I say the more traditional accompaniment to
knowledge is willful blindness, which for all its
obscurity, at least has a history.
MR. CRUZ: The jury heard those arguments,
the jury rejected those arguments. The argument that
was presented to the jury, although the precise words
willful blindness weren't used, the argument that was
presented to the jury was willful blindness argument.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How was the jury
instructed?
MR. CRUZ: What the jury was instructed was
several things and the jury instructions are at RA 26
and 27. The jury instruction that was used, by the way,
was the model jury instruction that has been used since
1998, has been unchanged and has included largely this
language since 1998 over and over again. That is the
jury instruction we are dealing with.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I am still waiting
to hear what it was?
MR. CRUZ: It is a complicated instruction,
so part of what -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought
there was some question about that it was so low that it
in effect amounted to a negligence standard.
MR. CRUZ: That is part of the argument
Pentalpha presents. I don't believe that is accurate.
Number one, the jury was instructed that plaintiff had
to prove by preponderance of the evidence that defendant
actively and knowingly aided and abetting the direct
infringement. That is part of the instruction. That
they actively and knowingly.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where are you reading
from, Mr. Cruz?
MR. CRUZ: RA 26 and 27. It is the end of
the red brief.
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't think that is the
part they are complaining about.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It is in the red brief,
the Respondent's brief, page 26, toward the bottom it
says if you find, I have a problem that I do not know
that they preserved this objection, but let's talk about
what the standard ought to be. At the bottom it says,
if you find that the someone has directly infringed a
patent and that the defendants knew or should have known
that its actions would induce direct infringement. So
this means to me that in order to be liable for an
inducement you can be liable if you knew or should have
known. Now, if we can just discuss this for a moment.
It seems to me that this is the important point in the
case because if you say should have known, then you have
a standard that is less than intentional for inducers.
And that means that every supplier, every business
person that takes a product from a manufacturer has the
duty to inquire and to find out if there is a patent.
And it is a standard that is less than intentional and
that is a very substantial change or a very substantial
burden to impose on those who are selling and
distributing products.
MR. CRUZ: Justice Kennedy, I don't believe
that is correct. Number one, we are certainly not
advocating a general burden on all producers to do a
patent search. That is not remotely the position we are
presenting.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if you say should
have known, that is the necessary consequence of the
holding.
MR. CRUZ: What I would suggest the import
of that language is, is to allow constructive knowledge.
Is to allow essentially willful blindness, which was the
entire way it was argued to the jury.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, as you say, willful
blindness was never used really until this Court and
this Court has never in a full opinion for the Court
adopted it even in the criminal context. So can we talk
about knowing as opposed to should have known.
MR. CRUZ: The argument that was presented
to the jury, in closing what trial counsel said and this
is the trial transcript, page 929 through 31, which is
not in one of the appendixes in front of you. I
apologize for that. But what the transcript says is
that Mr. Sham, the CEO, never told his patent lawyer,
look, what we are doing is copying this SEB product.
What he did, I suggest to you, is he set Mr. Levy up to
fail. He set him up to fail by not telling him he had
copied the product. That was the theory that was argued
as to why they should have known, because this was in
effect a sham, that not telling the lawyer about the
product, it wasn't an accident.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're presenting to
us the proposition, I take it, correct me if I am wrong,
that we should write an opinion that is saying that know
or should have known is the standard for an inducer.
And I question whether that is a wise interpretation and
a necessary interpretation of (b), especially as we are
informed through (c) as to what (b) might mean.
MR. CRUZ: Justice Kennedy, we are not
proposing that, and I would say two things. Number one,
there is an entire instruction on inducement and there
is also the language I read before that is part of the
jury charge on inducement. And I don't think the jury
can be presumed to have only listened to one snippet of
the instruction without the entire instruction.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we are arguing about
whether or not you can protect your judgement based upon
all that's in the record, I think you may have a strong
point. But I am interested in what the standard ought
to be. I'd like you to know what a properly instructed
jury should be told with reference to knowledge or
something less than knowledge.
MR. CRUZ: I would suggest with respect to
the language knew or should have known, that if there is
not an actual knowledge requirement, which in my
judgment is nowhere in the statute, then you have to
have something like should have known because I do not
know what you alternative instruct. If it is not actual
knowledge then there is a situation where someone is
allowed to have constructive knowledge.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you're saying that (b)
should have a lesser standard of culpability than (c)?
MR. CRUZ: Absolutely. I don't think the
statute makes any sense unless (b) is understood to have
a lesser standard. Otherwise, the inclusion of the word
"knowing" is given no effect.
JUSTICE BREYER: The difference, they say,
between (b) and (c) is that (c) applies to a person who
makes some really special thing that looks like a
Japanese kabuki theater costume, and it's actually made
out of metal and it's really -- has a very bizarre
thing, and it is only used -- good use is to do this
infringing thing.
But (b) could apply to somebody who makes
plastic shields. (B) can apply that -- (b) could apply
to anybody who makes anything; is that right?
MR. CRUZ: Justice Breyer, under that
argument, the statute would be interpreted identically
if the word "knowing" were added to (b). And given that
they added it to (c) and not to (b) -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the argument is that
the words "actively induced" are meant to be something
greater than knowing, not something less than knowing.
Because otherwise, you're going to hold Aluminum Company
of America, if that still exists, liable when it makes
these aluminum sheets, because somebody uses an aluminum
sheet apparently, et cetera. You see the problem.
It is quite different when you make this
weird kabuki-looking thing that only has one use,
and they -- and that's why it should be -- it should be
harder to hold that person to contributory infringement,
not easier.
Now, that's their argument. What do you
say.
MR. CRUZ: Justice Breyer, that -- that may
be a reasonable policy argument. However, that is also
a reasonable policy argument for modifying A, because
right now, the aluminum company is liable under strict
liability for direct infringement today.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'd like to get, really, an
answer from you on Justice Kennedy's question, because
at the moment I am not worried about your case. You, of
course, are. I understand that.
But the -- I am worried about Alcoa or the
little backyard maker of clay pots, or -- I mean,
millions and millions of people make things that are
used in millions and millions of ways. And I am worried
about what kind of burden we are supposed to impose on
them.
I see three candidates. One is, you're
liable if you should have known. Two is, you're liable
if you consciously disregarded a -- a risk, a known
risk; that is sort of like a -- you know, the Model
Penal Code, sort of. And third is willful blindness.
Is there a fourth? And if there is not,
what do you choose among those three? No, not what you
choose. What should we choose?
MR. CRUZ: We have suggested three possible
standards to be the rule in this case. The first, the
Court could choose to adopt the standard that was
adopted in Grokster, and we have argued at considerable
length that under the standard this Court adopted in
Grokster, the plaintiffs -- the defendants, rather,
would be liable and it would uphold the judgment below.
That is the broadest standard the Court could adopt.
A more narrow standard the Court could adopt
is that at a minimum, willful blindness of the patented
issue suffices to allow inducement liability. That is a
more narrow standard. It would cover a much narrower
universe of conduct. It would exclude much of the
conduct both Justice Breyer and Justice Kennedy are
suggesting. That is the second way this judgment could
be affirmed and a more narrow rule.
The most narrow rule we have suggested this
Court could adopt is in the limited circumstances when a
defendant deliberately copies another commercial
product, at a minimum, that defendant has an obligation
to ascertain if that specific product has protected U.S.
intellectual property, that it is a very minor
obligation that is triggered only when you take a
commercial product on the marketplace, reverse-engineer
it, and copy it, because it is a situation that is
highly likely to be indicative of bad conduct, to be
risking a very substantial infringement of someone
else's IP, and in terms of a low-cost avoider, one of
the things at footnote 20 of our brief -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait. Before you go -
before you go further, what if you do that, okay? And
you get an opinion from a lawyer, as they did here,
saying you're not violating any copyright or any -- any
patent?
MR. CRUZ: If they had said three words
differently, this would be a very, very different case.
If they had simply, in talking to their lawyer, said:
We copied SEB.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. You have to tell the
searcher that you copied.
MR. CRUZ: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That is part of your test,
right?
MR. CRUZ: If you specifically copy a
product, you have to look to see if that particular
product is protected by IP.
JUSTICE BREYER: So is that -- is that
another standard? Maybe that is an example of what it
is to be willfully blind. If, in fact, you go out and
you copy something, it could well be patented, and you
do not tell your lawyer, go look up this one, that is
willfully blind.
MR. CRUZ: Well, and -- and that -
JUSTICE BREYER: That is why you say they
are the same. I don't want to put words in your mouth.
MR. CRUZ: Well, the Court could certainly
craft the rule at least narrowly tailored to the facts
here, which is copying. And look, copying is not a
unique problem. It is a serious problem
internationally, with U.S. intellectual property being
stolen, copied, and marketed. And if Pentalpha were to
prevail, if this Court were to conclude unless you had
actual knowledge, you know to a hundred percent
certainty, this violates patent '312, you're immune from
liability, that decision of this Court would serve as a
roadmap.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're not immune from
liability for direct infringement. You're immune from
liability, under the hypothetical, for actively
inducing. And that is where there is a very substantial
policy difference.
MS. BLATT: But, Justice Kennedy, the reason
in this case why we brought a cause of action for both
direct infringement and active inducing is because the
argument of Pentalpha was their conduct was all
overseas, and so they weren't covered by 271(a). The
entire reason for the inducing strategy is they may well
prevail in another case on saying, we stole your
property overseas so you can't get us for direct
infringement. And in that instance, inducing is the
only way to get the actual mastermind. I mean, that was
one of the phrases Giles Rich used in defense of 271.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So are you saying that the
standard of knowledge would be the same for direct
infringement as for active inducement?
MR. CRUZ: I think there is a reasonable
statutory argument to be made that it is the same,
namely, that it is strict liability. We are not
pressing that as the only way to prevail, but I think
there is certainly a reasonable statutory argument.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I am a little
confused about the relationship between knowledge and
the Grokster standard. You think knowledge is a more
favorable standard for Petitioner than Grokster. You're
willing to accept Grokster, but not willing to accept
actual knowledge.
MR. CRUZ: I do, and I will tell you why.
Because -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, before you
tell me why, do you understand -- it's unfair to ask
you, I guess, but I understood Petitioner to take the
opposite position: That Grokster was a more favorable
standard for him than actual knowledge.
MR. CRUZ: I agree with you that is what
Petitioner said here. My understanding of Petitioner's
position was the same as yours, Mr. Chief Justice and
Justice Kennedy, that they are effectively requiring
actual knowledge, that that's what their urging is.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Why aren't you both wrong,
that Grokster didn't deal with the question that we are
dealing with, which was knowledge of a patent or
knowledge of a copyright, that Grokster dealt with
whether there was specific intent or whether there
needed to be specific intent to encourage infringing
acts. That is what Grokster was about, an entirely
separate question.
MR. CRUZ: Let me answer both your question,
Justice Kagan, and the Chief Justice's question
together.
Grokster used language about purposeful
culpable conduct, but it went further. It specified how
you ascertain whether that standard is met, and it said
as shown by other affirmative acts to encourage
inducement. Now, in Grokster, part of the argument
Grokster made was, we do not know what copyrights are
going to be violated. We do not know what is going to
be -- they made the same argument Pentalpha is making:
We have no idea of any specific copyright that will ever
be infringed. They argued, we do not have actual
knowledge of the specific copyrights. And this Court
said: That doesn't matter.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, one of the -- one of
the briefs -- one of the amicus briefs in this case
points out that that argument is a lot less plausible in
copyright than it is in -- in patents. It is very easy
to find out whether you're infringing a copyright. It
is very difficult to find out whether you're infringing
a patent, especially in the modern age of warehouse
patents. I am not sure that we -- that we want to use
the same test for copyrights that we use for -- for
patents.
MR. CRUZ: That policy differential -- there
may well be differences between patent law and copyright
law that are implicated in other cases. Here, what
occurred is an entire commercial product was copied. It
is much more akin to copyright infringement, where the
entire product was copied and they just changed the
cosmetic features.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's fine. I am
just -- I am just expressing reservations about your
suggestion that we simply take Grokster wholesale and
apply it to this situation.
MR. CRUZ: Let me be -- let me be clear,
Justice Scalia. I am not advocating this Court do so.
What I am saying is if this Court were to apply the
Grokster test, we believe we prevail under it, and in
fact any comparison of Grokster to Pentalpha, Pentalpha
is clearly the more culpable actor. In Grokster, the
individuals violating the copyrights were the ones who
made the choice to directly and deliberately violate the
copyrights and Grokster simply provided the tool to do
so. Here the only bad actor was Pentalpha. Sunbeam,
Montgomery Ward, they had no idea of the infringement.
Pentalpha was the mastermind behind the entire patent
violation, and in fact because of its actions procuring
a right to use opinion, by keeping the relevant
information from its patent lawyer, it lured, it induced
Sunbeam and Montgomery Ward and Fingerhut into
committing the bad act.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you say, even though
you -- I think you disagree with this in this case,
would you say that there is a reasonable argument in our
precedent for saying that the standard of knowledge
under (b) should be greater than reckless disregard?
MR. CRUZ: I do not believe there is in the
precedent. For one thing, reckless disregard is the
standard now. Willfulness and recklessness are the
standard right now for enhanced damages and attorney's
fees; and if it were the case that every violation of
271(b) required willfulness or recklessness, it would
also mean that every violation would qualify for
enhanced damages or attorney's fees. I don't think
that's consistent with the statutory standard. That's
not the language Congress adopted.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. Would you say
that there is substantial authority for the proposition
that it should -- the state of mind should be greater
than "should have known"?
MR. CRUZ: You know, I do not believe there
is. Particularly how "should have known" was used in
this case, A, the jury was -- the way the jury was
instructed, I would suggest it was effectively a
constructive knowledge instruction.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They're dealing -
MR. CRUZ: If you look at -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They're dealing with a
Federal Circuit decision, they're reviewing that
decision, the Federal Circuit had a formula. It said
standard is deliberate disregard of a known risk. One
thing you must surely do is to say whether that standard
is right or wrong.
So the Federal Circuit, whatever the jury
found, Federal Circuit said the law is that you are
liable under 271(b) if you are deliberately -- if you
deliberately disregard a known risk. Is that standard
the right one?
MR. CRUZ: I agree the Federal Circuit had
that language. I would not suggest that standard was
the wrong standard, but what I would say, what the
Federal Circuit in fact did is it applied willful
blindness. If you look at the cases it cited, if you
look at how it in fact interpreted it, although it used
the deliberate indifference language, which I will
concede was somewhat confusing in its reasoning. If you
look at it, it framed it as whether Pentalpha had
constructive knowledge of the patent, and it then cited
willful blindness cases from other circuits that focused
it on actively disregarding a known risk and deliberate
avoidance and consciously avoided knowledge. All of
that is willful blindness knowledge.
JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Cruz, while we are
certainly interested in what the standard should be.
But in terms of the deposition of this case, maybe you
could help me with this. The -- the instruction to
which there was an objection on, 124A to -- well,
wherever it is in the joint appendix -- was the newer
should have known, right?
MR. CRUZ: Correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: And the objection that I see
was that the words "or should have known that their
actions" -- this is 135A of the joint appendix -- should
have been stricken. So am I right that the only issue
that was preserved is the question whether actual
knowledge was required? Because that was the only -
that was what -- that was the error, the alleged error
that was identified by Mr. Dunnegan.
MR. CRUZ: I agree with that entirely.
JUSTICE ALITO: So if he is wrong on that,
then the judgment should be affirmed.
MR. CRUZ: I agree with that entirely, and
indeed we have suggested the central issue, the question
before this Court is, is there a requirement of actual
knowledge of the specific patent? And in my judgment
there is no reasonable argument from the statutory
language that in order to be liable under 271(b) you
must specifically know to 100 percent certainty this is
violating patent number 312. That is the issue they
objected. That is the issue that has been brought
before this Court. Is -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- do so, because we
still have to define knowledge. If we accept that
actual knowledge can have a different definition, just
not the should have known definition -
MR. CRUZ: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do we have to define
what knowledge -- what kind of knowledge we are talking
about?
MR. CRUZ: If it is a case that you must
specifically know the specific patent, it will ensure
that unscrupulous -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I agree. We can say
that. But how does it help -
MR. CRUZ: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the development of
law for us to simply say you -- it is not so much
knowledge that you have to know the specific patent by
number.
MR. CRUZ: I am going to suggest it is a
binary choice. It is either actual specific knowledge
of the patent, or it is some form of "should have known"
that allows constructive knowledge.
JUSTICE BREYER: That is where I am. At the
moment, the should have known or willful blindness, the
disregard -- the problem, and it seems like a real
problem, is know what, exactly? Well, know there is a
risk. Well, at that point half the country in the
business world is very upset because there is always a
risk.
MR. CRUZ: But, Justice Breyer -
JUSTICE BREYER: And the other problem is if
you -- as you move away from that and say, no, no, I
mean a real risk -- I mean a huge risk -- I mean a risk
that in fact, you almost knew that this was it -- now I
can do it with my tone of voice, but I need the words to
put in there that are going to calm people's fears that
they are not suddenly going to be held liable because
there is some fairly small risk of this. So what words
would I use?
MR. CRUZ: In this case, you had unusual -
JUSTICE BREYER: I know this case; I am not
worried about. I am worried about what I said.
MR. CRUZ: Well, let me suggest what words
you could use to resolve this case. Because -
JUSTICE BREYER: I do not want to just
resolve the case.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: The reason we took the case
is because there seemed a bunch of standards floating
around. Now I know our interests differ in this matter,
but I would appreciate any help you can give me about
what I am thinking now is words that will quantify the
risk that you had to have known about, a risk; so that
it doesn't look like some small thing that is always
there that looks like some giant thing that is pretty
close to actually -
MR. CRUZ: The language that -- that was
used in Santos was that willful blindness is that when a
party aware of a high probability of a fact deliberately
avoids learning the truth.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I've heard about
that.
MR. CRUZ: That language would encompass
this case -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, it would.
MR. CRUZ: And it would not bring in
innocent actors.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- my problem, is a high
probability that. You have to be -- you have to
consciously, that is the model penal code, that is the
-- you know, torts -- you have to consciously disregard
a high probability that this item was patented and also
meet the other requirements that are part of active
inducement. That is what your thought is?
MR. CRUZ: I think that would be an
acceptable test this Court could -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A high probability
of what? A high probability that you will infringe
this -- a patent or any patent?
MR. CRUZ: A -- with respect to what was
happening here, when you copy a commercial product,
there is a high probability that product is protected by
a patent, and when you engage in what the district court
characterized -
JUSTICE SCALIA: He is not interested in
what happened here. I mean, we are still talking about
a general test.
MR. CRUZ: I -- what I would suggest and
that is one of the reasons we proffered the narrow test
that is keyed on copying, because copying of completed
commercial products is the most egregious. If the Court
is concerned about unintended consequences, that narrow
rule is the most narrow rule. Let -- if I could briefly
suggest -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Forget the narrow rule.
What do you think the rule should be to articulate what
Justice Breyer would like?
MR. CRUZ: With respect, my client doesn't
care -
(Laughter.)
MR. CRUZ: -- as long as the result is at
the end, the opinion is affirmed.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know your client doesn't
care. But still we have to write this. So what about
the answer?
To follow it up a little bit, it is
knowledge -- you're familiar with these areas, so you're
helpful, and -- and it is a knowledge or a known -- or
consciously disregarding a known risk where the risk
consists of a high probability that that item that you
are inducing to be produced will infringe a patent.
MR. CRUZ: I agree that would suffice.
With respect to why this Court should not
remand, if I may very briefly make three points. Number
one, this case has been going on for 12 years. To
remand for a new trial would drag it on to more endless
litigation for no purpose. The district court observed
below this case was not a close case. It took the jury
109 minutes to resolve against Pentalpha on every single
ground that was presented to it.
Number two, the jury charge that was sent to
the jury was more than sufficient under any of these
standards. But number three, the alternative argument
we made, there was a finding of direct infringement.
That finding of direct infringement is also supported by
the damage award and that is an alternative ground to
remand it. Now, in the reply brief Pentalpha says,
focuses on the same differential that the Federal
Circuit did between the language of the jury charge and
the language of the verdict form, but the only evidence
the jury had of the number of units sold by anybody was
the stipulation. In their reply brief they say, well,
there could have been some sold in Canada. That was
lawyer argument. The only evidence, which everyone
agreed, was the stipulation and if that is true that
supports the damage award.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Cruz.
Mr. Dunnegan, you have four minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM DUNNEGAN
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS
MR. DUNNEGAN: Five points in rebuttal, I
believe, Your Honor. The first is what should the
standard be with respect to willful blindness. And I do
want to call the court's attention to one sentence in
Grokster appearing at page 941 of the opinion. And it
provides, this is worth reading, I believe. If
liability for inducing infringement is ultimately found,
it will not be on the basis of presuming or imputing
liability, excuse me, fault, but from inferring a
patently illegal objective from statements and actions
showing what that objective was.
Now, in the context of an amicus brief from
the solicitor general in that case suggesting a willful
blindness standard, it seems to me that that language is
a rejection of imputing a willful blindness standard.
JUSTICE ALITO: So you want actual knowledge
of the patent? That is your test?
MR. DUNNEGAN: The test that we are looking
for is the Grokster test. Is there purposeful, culpable
conduct.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you want actual knowledge
of the patent?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: And that is the issue you
preserved with your objection?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Not precisely. We preserved
other issues beyond that. We preserved both the jury
charge by objecting at 135A of the joint appendix and we
objected to the judgment as a matter of law motion by
making it and saying specifically there is no evidence
here that there was actual knowledge of the patent
before April 9th of 1998. Now -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And after that date you
admit you -- because you continued to sell the product
to the retailers?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So after Sunbeam sued,
then you are actively inducing infringement?
MR. DUNNEGAN: No, Your Honor. At that
point we have actual knowledge of the patent and the
analysis has to go to what was our purpose. For the
bulk of that period of time, we had a legal opinion from
a very competent New York City lawyer stating that we
did not infringe. And the jury, I guess the second
point I was trying to make is the jury never evaluated
any standard higher than new or -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that opinion
was after the first finding of infringement, that you
redesigned the product and that, the evidence you got
dealt with the redesigned products.
MR. DUNNEGAN: I believe your timing is
correct, Your Honor. The -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But after just
originally, Sunbeam is suing for infringement. Sunbeam
notifies Pentalpha. At that point, Pentalpha is
continuing to make sales. Is it infringing? Is it
actively inducing infringement.
MR. DUNNEGAN: That is a question of fact,
Your Honor. The jury resolved it against us, but the
point I was trying to make is that for some period of
time after that we had a legal opinion saying we did not
infringe and we believe that legal opinion from the New
York City attorney would prevent or should prevent, as a
matter of fact, a finding of purposeful, culpable
conduct. Now, the second standard I wanted to address
was -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You admitted there was
purposeful, culpable conduct when you did not, when you
had the original design and that was, and you were sued
for actively inducing infringement of that design, by
that design.
MR. DUNNEGAN: No, Your Honor. We would
never concede that we were purposefully -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you think a jury
could have found that from the facts?
MR. DUNNEGAN: Yes. We are not seeking
judgment as a matter of law for any claims that arose
after April of 1998 when we had actual knowledge of the
patent, only before we had actual knowledge of the
patent are we seeking judgement as a matter of law.
Now, going to the issue of whether willful blindness
could be found by the failure of someone to tell the
patent attorney that there was a copying -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I am sorry. Why are you
doing that? I thought that you came in arguing that you
have to have actual knowledge of the patent.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: By number, and that was
the conversation we had earlier, and that the patent
covered the scope of your invention.
MR. DUNNEGAN: Yes, Your Honor. That's our
primary argument, but if the court were to adopt willful
blindness as being enough, then I would question whether
or not simply not telling the patent attorney what
references were used or even which ones were copied
would be enough. Because in that situation, the company
has taken an effort to find out what the truth is and it
simply failed to meet the gold standard in meeting that
obligation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:14 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
31:24 41:22 42:2,23 11:7,22 12:5,16 appropriate 6:19,21 7:2,6
57:12 54:5,15,24 53:25 54:5,8 area 13:24 56:17 57:3
47:20 address 55:24 35:12 33:15 34:5 avoid 3:23 18:22
admit 54:18 aluminum 36:11 56:19 avoids 50:3
38:2,3,12 57:1 amicus 43:2 30:25 31:2,3,20 a.m 1:14 3:2
45:3 amounted 31:19 36:23,24 40:19 B
46:25
10:25 37:3 47:13 52:16 21:6,7,8,16,19
antithesis 7:23 arguments 30:24 24:3,5,18 28:4
41:4
36:3 52:24 Aro 20:15 28:2 35:16,20 36:1,2
12:3
51:20 apparently 19:6 arose 56:11 back 7:14 12:2
32:1 36:9
46:12
55:16
46:1 47:6 appearing 53:14 articulating bad 21:25 27:11
48:5 52:5 appendix 18:4 15:12 27:13 30:12
appendixes 42:16 balance 15:19,24
50:10
21:10
applies 20:21,21 10:10 53:17
12:13 16:5
20:16
3:8
53:9 37:2 38:8 39:16 39:5 40:17,22 37:19,22 competition 19:5
18:1,3 49:16 50:4,8,11 48:2 49:8,9,12 45:16,17,21,22 completed 51:8
31:21 51:15,21 49:14,16 50:7 46:1,4 52:22 Completely 15:9
43:25 brief 11:19 32:5 52:8,11,11 circuits 46:11 complicated
45:8 32:8,9 38:23 53:22 57:10,11 Circuit's 3:20 29:19 31:15
55:10 52:20,25 53:21 cases 8:2 43:13 circumstances components
briefly 51:11 46:5,11 38:12 21:20
brings 11:25 central 27:10 claims 4:24 22:21
brought 40:17 CEO 34:1 56:11 6:11 51:10
burn 19:3 certainty 40:8 18:25 19:2 conditions 21:18
4:6,8,10 21:24 29:17 cetera 36:14 close 49:24 11:11 23:4
8:4,21 9:8 32:22 48:21 change 33:1 52:11 24:23 25:4 38:7
changed 43:16 closing 33:22 38:8,20 40:19
13:17 C characterized code 37:16 50:13 42:15 54:4
16:1,5,9 c 2:1 3:1 20:16 51:2 collateral 23:14 55:24 56:2
18:14,14 20:18,21,23,23 charge 34:20 combination 21:5 confused 24:2
20:20 21:1,3,6,8,19 52:14,22 54:12 comes 4:1 41:11
27:17,24 21:19 22:4 check 6:12,20 comfort 14:23 confusing 46:8
24:18 28:3 chewing 30:11 commerce 21:1 Congress 45:3
31:2,3 34:15 35:14,20 Chief 3:3,9 13:11 commercial congressional
37:16 35:20 36:7 13:13,15 14:11 38:13,18 43:14 12:22
46:5,11,14 call 3:15 53:13 14:20 15:10 50:24 51:9 Congress's 12:9
50:1 called 8:9 23:6 24:16 26:3 committing connotes 11:18
calm 49:4 26:22,25 27:3,7 44:13 consciously
57:2 Canada 53:1 31:4,13,17 companies 19:12 18:22 37:14
32:6 16:7 22:19 48:13 comparison 44:1 consequences
36:4,8,22 27:13,15 29:7,9 choose 37:18,19 competent 55:2 51:10
37:4,21
44:5 39:25 41:5,16 defendant 4:15 35:19 40:15
correct 8:7 15:15 43:11,22 44:19 38:13,14 43:12
cosmetic 43:17 49:8,11,25 50:6 defense 25:17 23:7 28:13 29:7
counsel 27:3 51:16,19 52:5 define 47:20,24 47:21
35:12 country 48:20 culpability 35:14 47:22 43:11 52:21
46:10 course 7:1 37:5 culpable 3:16 4:8 degree 11:18 differently 39:5
court 1:1,13 3:10 10:22 18:24 14:23 difficult 43:6
27:20,20,22 23:23 24:23 3:23 4:3 10:13 14:21
23:19 37:22,24 38:2,3 customers 21:23 deliberately 3:18 40:12,18,23
38:12 39:25 38:13 44:4 41:3 52:17,18
43:23,24 47:11 D 3:1 demonstrate directly 26:15
51:1,9 52:6,10 52:19 53:4 demonstrated disagree 8:14
14:16 court's 53:13 45:1 demonstrating discuss 32:18
20:2 34:5 cover 38:6 dark 7:5 27:24 disregard 29:16
40:5 covered 40:20 date 54:17 depending 25:11 30:20 44:18,20
57:4 56:24 days 14:22 deposition 46:17 45:18,24 48:18
38:19 29:20 31:12 42:5 56:4,5 37:14
50:24 crime 13:9 45:13,15 designed 17:17 disregarding
51:8,8 critical 12:1 20:24 22:24 11:1 dissenters 28:18
Cruz 1:18 2:6 dealt 42:6 55:9 developed 15:23 distinct 9:16
23:19 27:19 28:5,16 15:10 25:5 48:8 district 29:14
42:6,22 29:5 30:2,16,24 decision 9:3 40:9 device 4:16 5:4,6 51:1 52:10
31:6,15,20 32:3 45:16,17 5:16 12:4 documents 26:19
23:14 34:16 35:5,15 18:6 19:3,7,15 differ 49:18 20:19 21:22
eliminating 16:1 exclude 38:7 find 5:25 7:9,11 full 33:18
3:6,7,9 38:22 exist 3:19,23 20:12 23:24 further 27:1
5:9 encompass 50:6 exists 11:4 16:6 32:10,13,24 38:25 42:15
6:3,15,24 encompassing 36:12 43:5,6 57:6
8:7,14 21:23 expect 17:3 finding 6:9 18:21 G
9:13,22 encourage 23:25 explain 11:14 20:9 52:17,18 G 3:1
42:8,17 18:15 24:20,25 55:7,23 gee 19:8
12:8 endless 52:9 expressing 43:19 fine 43:18 general 33:6
enforced 26:12 expression 10:23 Fingerhut 17:19 51:5 53:22
15:7,9 engage 3:14 extraordinary 44:12 generally 26:7
16:3,8 11:11 51:1 27:14 first 4:2 16:10,19 getting 17:19
17:2,9,13 enhanced 44:22 18:18 24:8 21:25
18:9,17 45:1 F 37:21 53:11 giant 49:23
enormous 28:7 fact 9:9 16:16 55:7 Giles 41:1
ensure 48:3 25:25 26:9 five 30:6 53:10 Ginsburg 4:14
22:6,9,15 entire 24:16 27:14 39:18 flipped 28:18 5:2,13,22 16:14
23:4 33:15 34:18,22 44:1,9 46:4,6 floating 49:17 16:23 17:22
24:7,11 40:21 43:14,16 49:2 50:2 55:17 focused 46:11 18:7,11 19:21
25:2 44:8 55:23 focuses 52:21 20:2,9 32:2
26:7 entirely 42:9 facts 9:9 16:14 follow 51:24 45:13,15 54:17
27:1 47:6,9 40:1 56:9 following 17:14 54:21 55:6,12
53:6,8,10 equals 12:6 fail 34:4,4 follows 28:25 56:1,8
equivalent 23:19 failed 5:20,21 footnote 38:23 give 6:18 7:2
55:10,17 error 47:4,4 57:7 forget 8:13 51:13 9:10 25:8 49:19
errors 10:11 failure 56:16 form 48:14 52:23 given 10:3 13:22
35:18 18:19 31:23 fears 49:4 framed 46:9 39:18,20 54:25
28:21 54:14 55:8 43:17 fryer 5:16,24,25 13:23 14:4,23
45:11 exactly 11:24 February 1:10 14:12 18:6 19:3 14:24 15:2,4,11
49:4,5 50:21,25 52:3 identified 47:5 inducer 3:13,14 52:17,18 53:16
56:15 higher 12:18 identify 13:6 11:13 34:12 54:22 55:7,13
44:18 hiring 7:24 40:12 22:12,25 27:10 infringing 6:10
history 30:23 implicated 43:13 40:14,18,21,24 7:9 14:6 26:16
19:20 hold 36:11,18 important 15:11 54:22 55:16 43:6 55:15
holder 9:21,24 21:7 32:19 56:4 innocent 27:12
holding 28:20 impose 33:2 industry 13:22 50:10
26:18,21 33:11 37:10 14:12,13 15:1,5 inquire 32:24
41:12 holds 13:7 impossible 4:17 15:12,14 inside 30:9,10
honest 7:10 impression 23:8 inferring 14:9 instance 40:24
honestly 6:8 improved 20:5 53:18 instruct 35:10
43:20,25 Hong 5:5 imputed 8:17 information instructed 31:5,6
53:14 Honor 4:3,7,13 imputing 53:17 44:11 31:22 35:2
4:21 5:10,19 53:24 informed 34:15 45:11
15:1,16 inclusion 35:17 52:4 55:3,21 instructions 31:7
Houston 1:18 44:11 21:11 22:12 interfere 26:23
hypothetical 32:17 34:18,20 29:2 31:25 40:4
18:20,23 idea 42:22 44:7 13:5 41:4 43:15 44:7 interpreted 36:5
identically 36:5
14:11,20 15:4,8 22:15,20 27:16 28:21,24 29:8 34:19 35:6
16:14,23 17:5 42:3,12 35:18 36:6,10 46:7 47:14
25:7 38:5 22:7,8,15,20 23:2 24:15 32:8 8:12,15 9:9 15:17 49:15
23:2,6,8 24:1 33:4,9,16 34:9 10:17,20 11:6 51:18
56:15 24:10,14,15,20 34:16,23 35:13 14:6 16:5 18:23 law 9:12,14 13:4
52:3 26:25 27:3,7,16 45:4 27:17,21,21,23 26:6,7 43:12,13
32:2 keyed 51:8 33:13 35:3,4,7 lawyer 16:15,21
54:12 36:4,8,22 37:2 17:16,17 22:16 42:24 44:17 learning 3:23
39:8,11,16,23 24:2,8,11,12 46:14 47:3,12 leave 10:18
35:8 38:1 41:10,18,25 35:6 49:2 48:10,13,15 29:3 55:1,20,21
47:8,12 42:1,3,12 43:1 know 4:15,18,21 51:25 52:1 length 37:24
56:11 43:18,23 44:14 4:22,25 5:19,20 53:25 54:5,15 lesser 35:14,17
20:12 46:15,23 47:7 13:21 14:2,2,23 56:20 let's 11:17 22:1
30:17,24 47:19,24 48:5,8 16:15,24 17:21 knowledge/will... 24:15,15 26:14
31:1,3,4 48:16,23,24 18:14 19:1 24:4 20:20 26:16,18 32:11
49:9,13,16 50:4 25:5,7,18,20 known 3:19 11:4 Levy 34:3
33:15,22 50:8,11,20 51:3 28:12,17 29:23 29:16 30:6,20 liability 7:9 8:13
35:3 51:13,15,21 30:8,10 32:10 32:14,18,20 11:10 12:25
53:5,25 54:5,8 34:11 35:2,10 33:10,20 34:6 13:1,5,10,10
54:17,21 55:6 37:15 40:7 34:12 35:6,9 23:12,15,16
54:11 55:12 56:1,8,18 42:19,20 45:8 37:13,14 45:7,9 37:1 38:5 40:9
56:8 56:22 57:9 47:15 48:3,10 45:18,24 46:12 40:12,13 41:7
5:2 49:18 50:14 48:14,17 49:21 liable 11:12
6:7,22 K 51:21 52:1,2 20:25 23:18,22
7:19 8:3,8 kabuki 35:22 knowing 21:4,4 Kong 5:5 24:5 32:16,17
9:4,19,23 kabuki-looking 22:4 23:7,9,10 36:12,25 37:13
36:16 23:11 24:17 L 37:13 38:1
12:5,16 Kagan 16:3,13 25:4 28:9,10,12 language 11:7,15 45:23 47:14
20:14 21:8 31:11 33:13
marking 5:5,8 Montgomery 5:7 notify 6:21 47:14
37:7 8:22 10:14 48:25 O 2:1 3:1
51:24 14:12 15:3 29:8 moved 22:13 objected 47:17 P
44:25 49:1,1,1 N objection 27:17 18:4 32:9 33:23
20:1 34:2 means 20:18 name 9:10,21,24 54:9 pan 20:8
40:2 27:24 32:16,22 10:4 objective 7:20 paper 7:6
46:5,6,9 meant 29:24 36:9 narrow 38:3,6,10 23:23 27:10 paragraph 28:19
measure 27:12 38:11 51:7,10 53:19,20 part 8:22 17:15
30:6 21:3 50:16 57:7 narrower 38:6 obligation 38:14 31:25 32:7
42:16 necessarily 13:2 observed 52:10 particular 4:15
37:9 34:14 12:25 13:5 28:19 39:14
53:6 never 14:23 opinion 10:15,16 4:18,21,25 5:7
19:2,11 model 31:9 37:15 new 1:16,16 7:1 39:1 44:10 6:2,9,13,19 7:9
26:6 50:13 52:9 55:2,5,21 51:20 53:14 7:11,12 8:23
54:14 modern 43:7 newer 46:20 55:1,6,20,21 9:2,11,17,20
modifying 28:25 23:20 28:13,23 29:3 33:20 11:6,10 12:4,13
notifies 55:14 order 32:16 17:17,24 18:2,6
19:8 person 21:10 precise 31:1 10:4 16:16 19:6 p.m 57:11
24:2 32:23 35:20 precisely 54:10 20:7 25:8,14,24
25:5 36:18 preponderance 32:23 34:2,5,8 Q
perspective 7:21 31:23 38:14,15,18 qualify 44:25
26:2,10 petition 10:25 present 10:19 39:14,15 43:14 quantify 49:20
32:14,24 Petitioner 41:13 presented 10:25 43:16 50:24,25 question 7:15
34:1 39:3 41:20,24 31:1,3 33:21 54:18 55:8 10:25 19:22
42:5 43:7 Petitioners 1:5 52:13 products 6:23 22:16 24:8
44:8,11 1:17 2:4,10 3:8 presenting 33:8 17:3 33:3 51:9 28:10 29:9
47:12,16 53:9 34:9 55:9 31:18 34:13
Petitioner's presents 31:21 proffered 51:7 37:3 42:4,10,11
51:1 41:24 preserved 32:11 profitable 19:4 42:12 47:2,10
54:1,6,15 phrases 41:1 47:2 54:9,10,11 proper 21:16 55:17 57:2
56:13,14 pick 19:22 pressing 41:8 properly 35:2 questions 27:2
piece 7:6 presumed 9:5 property 14:7 quite 29:19 36:15
plaintiff 31:22 34:21 38:16 40:4,23
24:3,4 plastic 36:2 pretty 49:23 34:17
39:19 plausible 43:3 prevail 40:6,22 proposition
please 3:10 41:8 43:25 34:10 45:5
17:7 32:19 35:1 probability 3:22 prove 31:23
26:12,17 48:20 54:24 9:17 10:7 16:10 provided 44:5
34:19
55:4,14,19 18:21,23 50:2 provides 53:15
points 43:3 52:7 50:25 52:3 purchased 5:5
18:8 20:10 policy 36:23,24 probably 8:15 4:13 10:21 13:8
11:1 16:23
31:21 40:15 43:11 10:10 14:7 13:8,17 14:9
25:18,19
42:21 posited 8:19 29:19 18:4 22:1 23:23
29:15,24
46:9 position 8:3 problem 14:21 25:12 26:20
35:21,23
55:14 13:15 33:7 30:19 32:10 52:10 54:25
41:21,25 36:14 40:3,3 purposeful 3:16
20:22
37:20 50:11 23:4 24:6,23
24:23
40:16,21
49:4 pots 37:7 procuring 44:9 54:3 55:23 56:2
40:7 practically 17:3 producers 33:6 56:7
practice 6:20,22 product 4:22 put 8:12 11:20
30:1,4
41:5,9
47:13
respect 13:17,18 14:11,20 15:10 6:1,12 19:17,22 shown 42:17
35:5 50:23 27:3 31:4,13,17 39:7 sides 30:8
53:12 53:5 57:9 second 8:10 43:20 44:5 48:9
28:5,16 15:5 37:21 55:24 single 52:12
19:14 2:7 27:6 51:11,11,13,14 see 5:7,11 6:12 11:5 14:5 16:19
Respondent's 8:18 11:8 12:16 21:22 26:14,16
30:4 51:19 sale 21:15,17,20 39:14 46:23 57:5
57:4 reversed-engi... Santos 9:15 20:25 24:5 25:8 small 49:6,22
38:18 34:11 35:13 33:2 solicitor 53:22
44:10 5:14 6:11,14 43:24 44:17 14:4,13,16 7:13 11:11 14:5
Rich 41:1 29:10 30:6,7,11 13:25 14:2 15:3 somewhat 46:8
18:15 47:1 17:5,10 22:8 sentence 24:8 SOTOMAYOR
47:3 rights 14:7 38:24 39:8,11 53:13 8:20 9:4,19,23
12:18,19 29:16,17,18,19 scienter 11:8 42:10 24:14,20,25
47:11 30:6,13,14,14 12:17,19,23,23 serious 40:3 25:3,16 26:5,11
45:18,24 46:12 26:9 56:24 set 34:3,4 51:13 56:18,22
52:2,2 5:23 7:23 8:23 sheet 36:14 specialist 7:24
48:3,10 States 1:1,13 suggesting 26:20 7:3,12 16:15,22 thinking 49:20
5:11 38:9 53:22 30:15 39:8,20 third 3:13 4:23
47:15 statute 11:8,15 suing 55:13 telling 34:4,7 thought 8:11
54:14 11:25 27:22 Sunbeam 17:19 57:3 19:2 22:3 23:8
6:17 8:1,1 45:2 47:13 supplier 32:22 4:2,9 9:8 27:9 three 37:12,18
10:14,23 step 7:17 support 11:16 27:11 39:11 37:20 39:4 52:7
12:12 stipulation 52:25 27:25 29:13 43:9,25 50:19 52:16
14:13 53:3 supported 52:18 51:5,7 54:1,2,3 time 19:1 26:23
stole 40:22 supports 53:4 testified 18:3 27:2 55:1,20
16:1,6 stolen 40:5 suppose 16:3,4 testimony 27:14 timing 55:10
stop 24:15 supposed 30:5 Texas 1:18 today 37:1
strategy 40:21 37:10 text 28:7 told 5:15,23
24:22 stricken 47:1 Supreme 1:1,13 Thank 27:3 53:5 25:13 34:1 35:3
28:3 strict 11:10 sure 5:17 10:6 57:9 tone 49:3
31:19 12:25 13:1,4,10 17:7 21:6 29:25theater 35:22 tool 44:5
13:10 36:25 30:6 43:8 theory 26:12 torts 50:14
35:1,14 41:7 surely 45:19 34:5 touched 19:4
37:22,24 strong 34:25 suspend 30:9 thing 21:11 22:21 tradition 29:21
39:17 struck 15:25,25 sustained 10:15 30:7 35:21,24 traditional 30:21
stuff 6:13 17:12 swallow 21:6 35:25 36:16 transcript 33:23
44:17,21 submitted 57:10 S.A 1:7 3:5 44:20 45:19 33:25
45:2,18 57:12 49:22,23 trial 29:15 33:22
46:2,3 subsection 20:16 T things 18:18 33:23 52:9
53:12,23 subset 10:17 T 2:1,1 22:17 31:7 triggered 38:17
55:5,24 substantial 23:20 tailored 40:1 34:17 37:8 trouble 17:20
33:1,1 38:21 take 10:12 17:13 38:23 true 13:20 14:25
27:20 suddenly 49:5 26:14,16,19 9:13 10:9,15,24 truth 3:24 50:3
49:17 sued 54:21 56:3 28:1 34:10 11:2 12:1 13:20 57:6
suffice 52:5 38:17 41:20 14:5,20 15:19 trying 7:4 55:4
sufficient 52:15 taken 7:16 57:6 17:4,14 18:17 turn 19:19
22:11,25 45:11 46:2 talking 13:16 29:20 30:1,2,3 two 9:15 18:17
48:12 49:11 26:4 28:14 30:14 32:6 20:18 30:8
47:10 27:5 51:14 56:8 U
violate 25:20 we'll 3:3 24:14 worth 53:15 45:23 47:14
13:9 violates 40:8 we've 6:13 20:20 7:19 8:20 16:24
14:12 44:3 47:16 whatsoever 11:9 25:14 29:25 3 2:4
37:5 violation 13:9 wholesale 43:20 write 34:11 51:22 31 33:23
21:18 44:9,23 willful 3:20,21 wrong 22:7 34:10 312 4:19 40:8
virtually 11:5 7:24 8:4,21 9:8 47:7
41:20 voice 49:3 10:14 13:16
25:6 27:17,23 50 10:7 18:4
17:20 55:2,22
30:22 31:2,3
43:8 49:13 38:4 46:4,11,14 607 19:22
1:5 3:4
52:12
1:14 3:2
52:8
Ward 5:7 7:7,8 willfulness 44:21 929 33:23
57:11
46:19
46:25
13:3
13:6
28:23 wasn't 16:10 word 11:17,20,20 1998 31:10,11
36:16 19:4 23:15 11:25 12:1,15 54:16 56:12
44:10 25:19,21 34:8 28:9,9,12,21
way 12:11 14:22 29:8 35:17 36:6 2
36:13 40:25 41:8 46:24 49:3,6,11 2011 1:10
