IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
GOODYEAR DUNLOP TIRES OPERATIONS, :
S.A., ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 10-76
v. :
EDGAR D. BROWN, ET UX., :
CO-ADMINISTRATORS OF THE ESTATE OF:
JULIAN DAVID BROWN, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, January 11, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:15 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MEIR FEDER, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf of
Petitioners.
BENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioners.
COLLYN PEDDIE, ESQ., Houston, Texas; on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MEIR FEDER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
BENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as
amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners 13
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
COLLYN PEDDIE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 22
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MEIR FEDER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 48
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:15 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 10-76, Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations v.
Brown.
Mr. Feder.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MEIR FEDER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. FEDER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The North Carolina Court of Appeals asserted
jurisdiction over Petitioners in this case on claims
that arose from a bus accident in France that was
unrelated to any North Carolina contacts. Although the
Petitioners are located overseas and do not conduct any
business in North Carolina, the court held that North
Carolina had general jurisdiction over these defendants
based solely on the sale in North Carolina of a small
fraction of their products.
Under this Court's cases, the mere sale of a
defendant's products in a State does not permit the
State to reach out to assert judicial power over all of
that defendant's worldwide conduct. If that were
permissible, every significant seller of products would
be subject to suit everywhere on any claim arising
anywhere.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's one piece of this
I don't quite comprehend. You -- there's no contest
that there is jurisdiction over the parent, right?
MR. FEDER: Yes, Your Honor. The parent
company consented to jurisdiction in North Carolina.
It's appointed an agent for service of process there.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it's -- it's based on
consent?
MR. FEDER: Yes. They also have other
business that the parent does conduct in North Carolina,
but there is no objection to jurisdiction over the
parent here. This case solely concerns the Petitioners,
who are corporations from Turkey, France, and
Luxembourg.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think there is
general jurisdiction over the parent? If the consent
were not in the picture, is there? Does general
jurisdiction go beyond State of incorporation, principal
place of business?
MR. FEDER: I think that that is a hard
question, Your Honor. The short answer is I think the
answer is "no," but I think that that is probably a
close case -- again, putting aside the consent. But I
do think that general jurisdiction is about suing a
company -- at least in the case of corporations, is
about suing the corporation essentially where it's
located or at home. It's always fair to bring a suit
against the corporation there.
I think that once you get beyond that, which
is a situation that would be analogous to a State's
power over a citizen or a resident of the State, I think
you run into great difficulty finding a basis for the
State to assert authority over claims completely
unrelated to any business that -- or any contacts that
the corporation has with the State.
That said, it wasn't contested here, and
there is a consent to service of process, which may or
may not create general jurisdiction. There's a
disagreement in the lower courts on that, but none of
that is contested in this case.
And without having to get to that particular
question of whether in fact it's limited to -- whether
general jurisdiction is limited to place of
incorporation or principal place of business, first of
all, there's much more directly controlling authority.
In this case, the most directly relevant cases are
Helicopteros and Consolidated Textile v. Gregory,
working in tandem.
In Helicopteros, which was this Court's last
corporate general jurisdiction case, the Court said that
there was no general jurisdiction based on $4 million in
purchases in the State and some other contacts. And the
key is that -- on that point, is that the Court held
that mere purchases could not provide the basis for
general jurisdiction because the pre-International Shoe
decision in Rosenberg was controlling on that point.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Again, this is
preliminary, and it just goes back to Justice Ginsburg's
question. Suppose you could help me out. I assume that
there's general jurisdiction over the parent company.
Then under respondeat superior, it would be liable in
North Carolina for the -- all the acts of its agents.
MR. FEDER: I think that's a fair
assumption.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then why isn't it
automatically liable for all the acts of its
subsidiaries?
MR. FEDER: Well, because I think -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and does that
get -- and does that get into what in the Federal
practice would be necessary parties?
MR. FEDER: What -- Your Honor, I think that
really what it gets into is the difference between a
subsidiary and an agent, because a subsidiary is not
automatically acting as the agent of the parent company
in a way where you'd get respondeat superior. And I
think that part of what's going on in this case is that
when this does go back to North Carolina for trial or
for litigation against the parent company, I think that
under North Carolina or whatever State's or nation's
veil piercing or agency standards the North Carolina
courts will apply, the plaintiffs will have great
difficulty actually with the substantive case against
the parent company, because you would actually have to
show involvement in the actions that actually the claim
arose out of here.
The mere general control that's inherent in
the parent-subsidiary relationship is not going to
create liability, and here -- important to remember -
we're talking about a tire manufactured in Turkey,
accident in France which Goodyear Tire and Rubber
Company -- and, now, this is outside the record, as I
understand it -- did not have any direct connection
with. Again, not relevant to the jurisdictional
question here, but I -- just for sort of setting the -
the context.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You are met with an
argument that it's all one ball of wax. Parent and sub,
they merge; it's one enterprise. And so if the subs do
something any place, the parent is -- it's all part of
one thing, so -- and I think that was the principal
argument made by the Respondents.
MR. FEDER: Yes, Your Honor, and I would
say, again, when it comes to liability in Goodyear Tire
and Rubber, they'll be free to make that argument. That
argument is not properly presented here. It was never
made below.
It was never -- it was not made in the brief
in opposition to cert, so any argument for ignoring
corporate distinctions or an enterprise theory -- none
of that was made and, therefore, has been waived. I
think that, secondly, as we indicated in our reply
brief -
JUSTICE SCALIA: We haven't resolved a whole
lot if we leave that question open, have we? You want
us to write an opinion that says, unless you -- unless
you ignore the separate corporate existence of the
subsidiary -- parenthesis, a question on which we
express no opinion, close parenthesis -- there can be no
jurisdiction in cases like this? Is that the kind of an
opinion that the world is waiting for?
MR. FEDER: Well, Your Honor, I think that
actually in -- if the Court were to write that, it would
be left with the important general jurisdiction question
that the court below decided incorrectly, and
incorrectly in a few ways.
I think that, in fact, there would be
several ways for this Court to approach it, all of which
would actually help to clear up the law in this area. I
think that even if one gets past the waiver point -- and
the reason the Court shouldn't get past the waiver point
is, among other things, because it wasn't raised -- we,
of course, had no opportunity to put in evidence that,
in fact, these corporations are run separately,
independent decision making, observation of corporate
form, and all the other things that would normally go
into it.
If you want to reach it, first of all, there
is -- even on the standards articulated in the
Respondents' brief, there's nothing in the record to
support it, and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought you were saying
we should not even -- not even address the situation
where there is no special basis for ignoring the -- the
separate incorporation. I -- of course, we should not
get into questions of whether, in fact, the subsidiary
was a sham -
MR. FEDER: Oh.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that there was control,
all of that, but the simple question of whether, when
you have a totally owned subsidiary, its actions are
your actions.
MR. FEDER: That, I think, the Court -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't we have to reach
that?
MR. FEDER: You certainly do have to reach
that, Your Honor. The Court has reached it and decided
it before, and has said that the mere parent-subsidiary
relationship does not create attribution one to the
other, most recently in Keeton, in which the Court cited
some of its older cases for that very proposition.
And I think that in -- another way to look
at it is, even if you wanted to treat the sales in North
Carolina as if they were made there directly by these
Petitioners -- in other words, even if you picked -
assuming arguendo that you could attribute those sales
directly to the Petitioners and not, as the court below
found, treat them as not having been caused by them,
that does not come close to satisfying what is required
for general jurisdiction.
And, in particular, in going back to
Helicopteros and Gregory, just as the Rosenberg case was
binding in Helicopteros on the point that mere purchases
are not enough for general jurisdiction, here
Consolidated Textile v. Gregory is binding on the flip
side of that, which is that mere sales in the State are
not enough for general jurisdiction.
Even if Gregory weren't binding, I think
that you could look at Helicopteros and say there is no
real basis for a distinction between mere purchases and
mere sales. But, in fact, there is a case directly on
point, and as well as a lot of case law from the time of
Gregory more generally requiring much more substantial
-- a substantial physical presence in the State. In
terms of -- I think no personal jurisdiction argument
should go by without talking about International Shoe,
and if you look at just the International Shoe line of
cases, even aside from this issue of Gregory being
binding, the decision below is equally, if not more,
untenable.
International Shoe itself recognizes -- in
sort of carving out an area for what eventually came to
be called general jurisdiction, it recognizes the
extraordinary nature of the State power that we're
talking about when we talk about general jurisdiction,
which is this power to reach out and assert State power
over things that by hypothesis have no relationship to
contacts with the State. International Shoe uses the
language saying that you need continuous corporate
operations within the State and says that these
continuous corporate operations have to be so
substantial and of such a nature as to justify this
jurisdiction over conduct that is entirely unconnected
to the State.
The one case where the Court has upheld
general jurisdiction since International Shoe over a
corporation is Perkins, which was a case that involved
the corporation's principal place of business. And in
Helicopteros, following Perkins, when the Court
articulated the standard there, the Court said that
we're looking to see whether there are contacts of the
sort that we found to exist in Perkins. So -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Perkins is kind of an
unusual case, because it was a company that at the time
was doing business only in Ohio. It was a Philippine
mining company, and it was World War II, so the mines
couldn't be run. So to the extent that the corporation
was existing anywhere, it was in Ohio.
MR. FEDER: That's right, Your Honor, and I
guess what I would say about that is that it's
unusual -- those are unusual facts, but not unusual in
terms of what is required to be able to assert general
jurisdiction.
The Court in Keeton later described Perkins
as essentially involving the corporation's principal
place of business, and I think that's right because in
order for the State to be able to assert jurisdiction
over things unrelated to the State, you need that type
of relationship equivalent to a citizen or resident that
gives a State authority over the corporation's actions
worldwide and not just -- because this goes far beyond
specific jurisdiction where the State has a manifest
interest in an accident or a claim that arose in the
State or connected to the State.
Helicopteros, just to circle back on that
point, does say we're looking for contacts of the sort
found to exist in Perkins, and -- and as we said, said
that even $4 million in purchases were not enough. I
think that all of those cases help to make it clear why
the mere sales here are not enough.
And if there are no further questions, I'd
like to reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Horwich.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN J. HORWICH,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS
MR. HORWICH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The North Carolina State court was wrong to
assert general personal jurisdiction over Petitioners,
extending potentially to any claim against them arising
out of any conduct of theirs anywhere in the world, and
there are several ways to see why that's wrong. Even if
the Court were to accept the proposition that such
contacts with North Carolina as there are in the record
should be attributed to Petitioners, those contacts
still don't rise to the level of what this Court has -
has demanded in terms of continuous and systematic
contacts.
And even setting those more -- those more
precedential tests aside, I think there's also a -- the
result of the North Carolina court's decision is that
the jurisdictional consequences here would be quite
disproportionate to the contacts that -- that -- on
which it would be based.
So if I can, I guess, turn for a moment to
the continuous and systematic contacts proposition,
which this Court has certainly not elaborated in its
case law, but I think it -- it would be -- I think it's
useful to speak of, of what exactly the Court was trying
to get at. And what we think the Court was trying to
get at, particularly by -- as my friend referred to,
particularly by its reference in Helicopteros to Perkins
as -- as being sort of a benchmark for what continuous
and systematic contacts are, I think it requires seeing
an active volitional undertaking by the -- by the
defendant. It can't be based on the contact -- conduct
of third parties. Obviously, the continuous concept of
existing without interruption.
And with respect to systematic, we think
that that means there needs to be a plurality of
contacts, they have to be of different kinds or
qualities in a sense of perhaps employment as well as
contractual as well as regulatory as well as property as
well as sales or purchases, and that those contacts
together have to have some interrelationship that
results in something that might be thought of as more
than the sum of their parts. And -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, suppose it's just a
corporation that's registered to do business in North
Carolina, and the connection with that registration -
it says: I appoint so-and-so my agent to receive
process for any and all claims.
MR. HORWICH: Well, as -- as Mr. Feder
referred -- referred to, there -- there is a division in
the lower courts on whether that sort of a consent is
effective to permit the State general jurisdiction
over -- over the consenting party. That -- but the
Court has, I -- I think, been -- been fairly clear in -
in setting notions of -- of formal consent to one side
when considering contacts-based cases. And so, in part,
this case, therefore, doesn't present that question, and
we don't have a position, as the Government, on that
today with respect to whether that's effective.
But it certainly is the case that simply
because one entity in a Goodyear family of -- of related
corporations has consented, that somehow that consent
should extend to the entire enterprise. And if I can
maybe take a minute to talk about where we think the
Respondents' view of -- of this enterprise jurisdiction
goes wrong, because we touched on it only -- only
briefly in our brief, which was, of course, filed before
theirs.
When -- when a court confronts a -- a set of
-- a corporate family, if you will, there seem to be two
principles that can be usefully applied in determining
the jurisdictional consequences of that relationship.
One is the alter ego concept, which certainly doesn't
seem to be supported on anything in the record here in
the sense that there's -- that there's no sound
suggestion in the record that -- that the European
entities were somehow a sham, that they didn't have any
separate existence, they were undercapitalized or any of
the other indicia that you would see.
And so, to your point, Justice Scalia, I
think it is certainly something the Court could say that
the record here is no basis for that kind of a decision
to disregard the corporate separateness.
Then the other concept is the agency
concept. And I think that may be what -- what
Respondents are placing somewhat greater reliance on.
And we certainly -- we certainly have the view that an
agent, acting on behalf of a principal within the scope
of its agency, can take actions that create contacts
with the jurisdiction that are, by virtue of the agency
relationship, attributable back to the principal.
But there are -- there are two important
things to realize, that that -- that that proposition is
somewhat modest in that, first of all, simply because
a -- a parent owns a subsidiary does not mean the
subsidiary is the parent's agent. Plenty of parents
simply own subsidiaries as property or for various
business reasons. It doesn't mean the subsidiary is
automatically always acting as the agent of the parent
for all purposes or any at all.
And -- and the second thing to be cautious
about in applying the agency principle is that the
agency relationship only runs one way; that is to say
the agent can do something that creates a contact on
behalf of the principal, but that's not to say that
everything the principal does in its independent
activities says anything about what contacts its agent
has. That's exactly backwards.
In the -- and so, here the -- the allegation
actually in the complaint is that the European companies
are the agents of the parent -- of the -- of the
Goodyear U.S. entity. That's -- that's paragraph 16 of
the complaint at page 112 of -- 122 of the joint
appendix. So it -- it might be -- it -- there might be
an argument that something that the European
subsidiaries have done, say, in Turkey is something that
could be chargeable to the U.S. parent in a case where
it was relevant what the parent's relationship with
Turkey was.
But what Respondents are asking for here, in
effect, turns that completely around and suggests
implicitly that the -- the -- this -- the parent of the
Goodyear organization in the United States was somehow
doing the bidding, acting at the direction and control
of the European companies as principals.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Horwich -
MR. HORWICH: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I ask you a different
kind of question? And I apologize in advance for taking
you a little bit far afield. But -- but I wanted to ask
you about a particular sentence in your brief that seems
to have some relevance to -- not the general
jurisdiction question but some relevance to specific
jurisdiction. So this is on page 20.
You say: "If mere 'purposeful availment' of
commercial opportunities in a particular State" -- which
is, of course, the test for specific jurisdiction -- if
that purposeful availment "were sufficient to subject an
enterprise to the general jurisdiction of that State's
courts, a corporation that sold its goods to an
independent distributor, intending that they be resold
in all 50 States, could potentially be brought to
judgment in any State, on any claim against it."
So I -- I take that -- I understand that to
read that you think that it is purposeful availment that
subjects a company to specific jurisdiction -- not to
general jurisdiction, but to specific jurisdiction -- if
a corporation sold its goods to an independent
distributor intending that they be resold in all 50
States. Am I reading that correctly?
MR. HORWICH: No, I don't -- I don't believe
so, in the sense that I -- I think we were sort of
assuming arguendo a concept of purposeful availment
that -- that would be willing to attribute those -
those contacts for purposes of a specific-jurisdiction
-- excuse me -- for purposes of a specific-jurisdiction
analysis. I don't know if that helps with the -- with
the answer, but -
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, I was hoping that the
answer would be "yes," actually.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KAGAN: But -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There's at least one
other person in the courtroom who was hoping that, too.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I was wondering why
-- why is your interest in this case so much greater
than it would be in -- in the other case, and this --
I've been wondering that at the outset, and this
sentence that Justice Kagan points out brings that into
full focus.
MR. HORWICH: Well, Justice Kennedy, let
me -- let me put it this way. It -- it -- the
difference in our interest in the two cases is at bottom
just a difference in magnitude, but we think it's a
fairly significant difference in magnitude in the
sense -- in the sense that the jurisdictional
consequences of an assertion of general jurisdiction are
that -- with that one determination, it is the case that
that defendant can -- could potentially be brought to
judgment in a forum for all -- for claims arising from
any of its conduct anywhere in the world.
And specific jurisdiction by construction,
by its very nature, is only going to be a determination
-- whatever the contours of the specific rules that are
used, it's going to never be more than a determination
that jurisdiction in a claim, considering the
relationship between the defendant, the forum, and the
particular litigation, gives rise to jurisdiction.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, why -- why -- I mean,
you've heard the argument in the last case. I mean, it
seemed that potentially can subject the smallest
manufacturer to liability throughout the world because
it uses the Internet. And -- and that -- I don't know
what the foreign policy -- you've heard treaties
discussed, et cetera. Do you want to say anything?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And briefly.
MR. HORWICH: Yes. Yes, Mr. Chief Justice.
(Laughter.)
MR. HORWICH: The -- the -- the brief answer
is that the Internet questions, in particular, are so
complicated and, indeed, so potentially far-reaching
that in a case that presented them, our interest might
very well be different.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Saved by the bell.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Peddie.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF COLLYN PEDDIE
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MS. PEDDIE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Goodyear Petitioners ask this Court to
assist them in avoiding the jurisdiction of the North
Carolina court. This Court should decline for two
reasons. First, there's nothing new here. Ample
evidence supports North Carolina's exercise of general
jurisdiction over the Petitioners under very well
established general jurisdiction and due process
principles. And -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think there's something
very new about this, because general jurisdiction is
all-purpose jurisdiction, and for a corporation it's
sort of like a residence for an individual. I think Mr.
Feder was making that point.
What's -- what's troubling here is that the
North Carolina court seems to be blending the two
together: specific jurisdiction based on the claim
arising in the forum, and general jurisdiction with a
claim that has nothing to do with the forum, and its
insertion of jurisdiction over any and all claims. And
I do not know of any case post-International Shoe -- the
only thing that we have is Perkins v. Benguet.
Is there -- is there any case in which this
Court has sanctioned the assertion of general
jurisdiction based on some prior -- some product coming
into the State, not the product that caused the injury
abroad? I don't know of any case.
MS. PEDDIE: Your Honor, if that's -- if
that's the characterization of the case and that's all
you had, then there wouldn't be a case. Our argument
here, and I think the -- what the -- what the evidence
in this case bears out is that is not the case here.
The characterization of the case by both the Government
and by Petitioners is that there is simply mere sales
here, and they ignore how the sales occurred.
Our focus is on how the sales occurred, and
I think Justice Scalia made a -- a correct distinction,
that what we're doing here is not talking about
attribution, that -- that sort of thing, and -- and
simply saying that because someone down the line sold
them, without any other discussion, there's general
jurisdiction. That's not correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then, you don't
defend the reasoning of the State supreme court?
MS. PEDDIE: I think that the -- the State
supreme court did a lot of things right, but, as we say
in the brief, we think that they took a detour in using
inappropriate stream-of-commerce language that isn't
there. It's not that they didn't have help doing it.
For example, the Petitioners have changed their tune
here. They talked routinely about purposeful availment
in their briefs to the court of appeals and to the
supreme court. For example, page 327 of their brief
requests that they -- that they find purposeful
availment here. So the court had a lot of help.
But that part of the opinion we don't really
think is appropriate, nor is it necessary. The point
that I'm making about there being nothing new is that
there is ample evidence in this case to apply to the
general jurisdiction principles that were used in
Perkins and used in Hall and that can cause this Court
to reach the correct result.
As the Court is well aware, this Court can
affirm on any basis supported in the record, and we
believe that there is a basis in well-established rules
supported in the record, whether it agrees with the
court of appeals' decision or not. It's not bound by
that analysis, nor are we.
I'd like to address the question of waiver
because it's -- it's come up. I think that the
Solicitor General has correctly -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you've got -- you
have me in suspense.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Tell me why it is that the
general principles of jurisdiction do apply here, and
then we can get to waiver.
MS. PEDDIE: Okay, okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't leave me dangling
like that.
(Laughter.)
MS. PEDDIE: Your Honor, as far back as -
as Burger King, this Court recognized that commercial
activities, when they're conducted on behalf of an
out-of-State party, can sometimes be attributed. Even
the Solicitor General agrees that there's a different
jurisdictional analysis that may apply over and above
something like Cannon or Rush v. Savchuk, if there are
case-specific interactions between particular affiliated
corporations as you have here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Case-specific
is not talking about general jurisdiction.
MS. PEDDIE: No, no, but -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's talking about specific
jurisdiction.
MS. PEDDIE: But what they're talking about
are that there are evidentiary case-specific
interactions between the parties that would lead to the
conclusion of general jurisdiction and thus subjecting
them to suit on -- in dispute-blind -- or dispute-blind
jurisdiction.
In addition, this Court has used in a
variety of other areas a unitary business principle for
local taxation in Mobil. And even as far back as 15
years ago, the Hague Convention, our trade partners that
are complained of here, talked about the fact that
using -- attributing contacts or counting contacts that
were based on conduct performed by others was
appropriate and was not really a sticking point and that
they were perfectly content to leave that to other
cases.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Just give me a list
of -- of what -- what factors you think support general
jurisdiction here.
MS. PEDDIE: In terms of the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: One, two, three, four -
MS. PEDDIE: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which ones are they?
MS. PEDDIE: Okay. In this case I think
it's the part -- and, frankly, we'll use the Solicitor
General's definition of a system, from their brief at -
at page 23, where they talked about conduct that forms a
system and aggregation of objects united by some form of
regular activity or interdependent.
Using their definition, I think you ask the
question: Is a defendant part of a continuous business
system or enterprise that conducts general business
activities in the forum? And the first question you
asked is: Is it a single system or an enterprise? This
Court has said in Mobil Oil that a unitary business is
identified by -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Peddie, you haven't
-- you don't have anything in the record about this
being a unitary business. Unless you're trying to
present some sweeping piercing-the-corporate-veil
theory, there is nothing here that says that these
aren't corporations that are acting separately, that
have their own officers, have their own employees, keep
their own books. There's nothing to show that it's all
part of one enterprise.
MS. PEDDIE: I disagree with that, Your
Honor. Under the sort of traditional measures that the
Court has used in terms of -- of ownership, et cetera, I
don't think there is anything. But even the Solicitor
General concedes, at page 27 of their brief, that the
court of appeals effectively treated the parent and
subsidiary corporations as an undifferentiated entity
for distribution of the Petitioners' product, and that
was our position below. And I think if you look at -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the question isn't
whether they did that; the question is whether it was
right to do that.
MS. PEDDIE: That -- that's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you don't make your
point by saying that the court of appeals made a
mistake.
MS. PEDDIE: No, no. But I think -- I think
what -- what -- at least as I understood her question -
and I may have misunderstood her question -- was is
there anything in the record where -- where they had
done that. I think the -- the evidence in the record is
part and parcel of the fact findings that the trial
court made about the existence of a highly integrated
supply and distribution system in the -- that operates
in the State.
The number of tires, for example, that
Petitioners manufactured in North Carolina was
determined solely by orders that were solicited in North
Carolina by Goodyear and forecasts made by Goodyear
based on data that they gathered there. On the
distribution side, the testimony from Mr. Kramer was
that they don't send tires for distribution; they don't
do any distribution. It was an internal distribution
system.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I mean, those
arrangements could exist with a lot of distributors.
You don't want to ship a distributor stuff that the
distributor is not going to be using.
MS. PEDDIE: Your Honor, I think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, my goodness. The
fact that you coordinate with your distributor how much
of your product you're going to ship to him doesn't -
doesn't really show -
MS. PEDDIE: Your Honor -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that you are a unitary
business with your distributor.
MS. PEDDIE: Your Honor, I think this goes
way beyond coordination. For example, Mr. Kramer
testified that, quote, "Their job is just to be given a
forecast or a ticket, and then they just build widgets."
That's all they do. They were complete -- their -
their solicitation and their production was solely based
on the control and the requests from the parent. The
requests, as he testified, quote, "emanate from the
requests that Goodyear would make." And the production
and supply system was the same for all of them.
On the distribution side, the testimony was
even more -- I think was even more limited in that he
said the plant in Turkey doesn't control any
distribution. They wouldn't send anything into United
States without the approval and sanction of the parent,
and anything else, quote, "just doesn't happen."
So this was a closed system. It was
dominated by -- by the Goodyear parent, and there wasn't
a question of coordination. It was they didn't produce
unless the parent told them to; they sent it where the
parent said they should send it to; and when it got to
the United States, the testimony is, is that the parent
controlled it at that point.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the "it" wasn't the
product that caused the injury here. As I understand
the case, the tire that allegedly caused this bus to
turn over was designed for the European and Asian
markets, not the U.S. market.
MS. PEDDIE: The Goodyear Regional RHS tire
that was on the bus and that failed was not generally
designed for the U.S. market, although it was brought
over here under special circumstances.
The tires we're talking about are of three
kinds. There are passenger and bus tires that you would
ordinarily see that would be sold individually;
second -- a second category are tires that were sold as
original equipment on cars and buses; and, third, and
the predominant type that were sent to the United
States, were specialty tires for so-called low boy
trailers which were horse trailers, boat trailers, of
which there are in many North Carolina.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But why did -- why should
-- Mr. Feder brought up the Helicopteros, and he said in
that case, it was purchases; and in this case, it's
sales. And in the purchaser case, certainly we said no,
there's no general jurisdiction. Why should it be any
different?
MS. PEDDIE: I think the distinction between
Hall and Perkins is not so much purchases and sales,
it's which contacts do you count? And the language that
is sort of forgotten in Hall is the language that they
talk about -- you needed to have the same general
business contacts that you had in Perkins.
I think the difference is, is that purchases
are sort of a one-shot deal. They may be supplies,
but -- but they're more irregular, but the core business
is selling -- is selling items, and so sales count more
than purchases.
I apologize for interrupting.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In Perkins, it was the
home of the corporation. There was no other at the
time, because their permanent home was not functioning
because of the war. So there was only one place.
MS. PEDDIE: Your Honor, I think the facts
of that case are -- is that one officer of the
corporation came home, and he was -- he maintained
two -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He was the president of
the corporation.
MS. PEDDIE: He was the president of the
corporation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And whatever business it
was doing, it was doing from that office in Ohio.
MS. PEDDIE: Right. And the Court
characterized that -- I think there's a difference
between what the Court did in Perkins and how it was
described in Keeton. That's the language that the
Petitioners have used.
But the language that the Court used in
Perkins was that the decision was based on the
supervisory activities; not the fact that it was the
principal place of business, but the fact that the
supervision over, for example, the renovation of the
factory after the war took place in the forum.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you about the
ramifications of your theory that there's general
jurisdiction in North Carolina over these three
subsidiaries?
Suppose that one of the children on a bus
was a Canadian citizen, was going home to Canada. And
had the idea that juries in North Carolina are more
liberal than in France. Well, there wouldn't be any
jury in France, but -- so could the Canadian come and
sue because there's general jurisdiction in the United
States?
MS. PEDDIE: I think it would depend upon a
lot of factors, Your Honor. Are you assuming that
there's -- it's established that there's general
jurisdiction there, or are we in the same fact pattern
as here?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, you -- we're talking
about Goodyear and these three subsidiaries. You say
there's general jurisdiction in North Carolina. Those
companies can be sued on any and all claims.
So my question is: Could anyone on that bus
that turned over in Paris come to North Carolina to
bring the wrongful death, or whatever, suit?
MS. PEDDIE: I think -- I think, in theory,
they could; I think, in practice, the case would never
stay there because of the controls that we talked about
on forum shopping; about, particularly, forum non
conveniens. One of the suggestions, for example, that
we made is one may want to consider for due -- for due
process purposes the residence of the plaintiff. Is it
fair, for example, to have a case in North Carolina
where the plaintiff doesn't live in North Carolina, as
they do here, but lives in Canada?
So that's -- that's one limitation. And as
this Court said in the Sinochem case, you can look at
the forum non conveniens issue before you look at the
jurisdictional issue.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's an -- that's
an odd way to think about general jurisdiction. General
jurisdiction is principally status -- your residence,
the principal place of business, the place of
incorporation. And this -- these factors that you're
mentioning are -- in fact, some of the factors you
mention in the brief are quite different than that.
MS. PEDDIE: Your Honor, I think if -- if
the limitation -- if the Court's view is basically the
Petitioners', that you are limited to principal place of
business, State of incorporation, and physical presence,
which we don't think is the state of the law, and,
frankly, if it were the state of the law, then we would
have a Hague Convention now and it wouldn't have taken
20 years to negotiate.
If -- if that's the position that the Court
is taking, then I don't think that -- you know, that
this case represents something different. I think that
the state of the law is that -- or at least the
professed state of the law is that it is based on
continuous and systematic contacts.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Ms. Peddie, let's assume
that you're right, that on some level that some -- that
it's not just the place of incorporation or the
principal place of business, that it could be created by
something more. The only something more here is
Goodyear USA, so your adversary is right that what
you're asking us to do is sort of a reverse
principal-agent.
You're saying that the subsidiary has used
the principal, its owner, as its agent. That's
really -- that's the core problem with your argument,
isn't it?
MS. PEDDIE: Your -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because without the
Goodyear USA activities, there's no other activity by
the foreign corporations.
MS. PEDDIE: Your Honor, I think what -
what we're talking about is not so much attribution as
more of a merger or a joint activity. What we're saying
is that there is a system, by the Solicitor General's
own definition, the kind of interdependent relationship
that the Solicitor General -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does -- do any of these
companies, the Goodyear Turkey Company, the others -- do
any of them sell the tires directly to Goodyear USA for
distribution to the United States? As I understand it,
these tires were sold to other entities, foreign
entities, who then sold them to the U.S.
MS. PEDDIE: That's -- that's not borne out
by the record. That -- it was represented by the
Petitioners. We put a footnote in the brief that the
citations that they give do not bear that out. There's
nothing in the record -- and we've read it twice since
then -- that indicates that they were sold. And they
have backed off on that in their reply brief.
Instead, the -- there were three methods of
distribution. They are discussed at page 265 of the
brief. Items were either sent directly from the factory
to the buyers that were identified by Goodyear. They
were either then sent to Goodyear that took ownership or
took possession of them when they arrived in the United
States. They were put in warehouses and sold outside of
those, but there were several distribution methods.
JUSTICE SCALIA: At page 265 of the brief?
I didn't read that many pages.
MS. PEDDIE: No, no. Excuse me. Page 265
of the Joint Appendix. I'm sorry, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Peddie, this is just a
-- this is an I'm-just-curious question: Why do you
care? You have Goodyear USA, which has consented to
jurisdiction. Why does it make a difference to get
these other companies in the North Carolina courts?
Does North Carolina not make Goodyear USA substantively
liable for this accident?
MS. PEDDIE: Your Honor, North Carolina has
particularly Draconian requirements for piercing the
corporate veil and alter ego, some of which Petitioners
refer to. For example, the proximate causation of the
wrong has to be related to the domination and control,
and so ideally it would be great if we could go back and
simply deal with them and let them collect from their -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So -- but what you're
saying, then, is that North Carolina treats the parent
and the subs very differently as a matter of substantive
law, but you would want identical treatment as a matter
of jurisdiction?
MS. PEDDIE: Right. They have very -- in
most States, frankly, there's a -- a lesser requirement
for the exercise of jurisdiction, merely allowing the
suit to go forward, than there is for actual imputation
of liability or imposition of liability, and so North
Carolina, I think, is a very good example of that.
They have a fairly liberal requirement or
state of the law that we've cited in the Manley case,
where general personal jurisdiction exists over a
foreign corporation where it is controlled by or
controls a local corporation. And that's the Wyatt
Confectionary case that we cited in the -- excuse me -
the Chocolate Confectionary case cited in the Manley
case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure that that
answered -- I understood you to be saying that,
substantively, they might not be liable for the defect
that caused the accident. Is that it?
MS. PEDDIE: Yes. That -- I mean, we -- I
think you have to understand that this case is at a very
embryonic state. We've done no discovery in this case.
This was a -- an appeal, an interlocutory appeal from
the denial of a motion to dismiss, and so there's been
one deposition on a very limited jurisdictional issue.
So we've not had an opportunity to develop the facts.
We hope we will be able to develop those
facts, but what we're faced with here is a situation
where North Carolina would permit the exercise of
jurisdiction under its well-established law on general
personal jurisdiction, but when it comes to the
imposition of liability for substantive purposes, that
may be a much, much -- much tougher sledding. And so in
order to preserve the interests of our client, we've -
we've gone down this road as well.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you have any case law
that supports your position, which, I take it -- and
correct me if I've got it wrong -- that a subsidiary is
subject to jurisdiction wherever the parent is, so long
as some products made by the subsidiary are shipped by
the parent to the -- to buyers in the forum State?
MS. PEDDIE: No, Your Honor, because that's
not our position here. Our position is that if you
participate in this kind -- not a general one, but in
this kind of very tightly controlled system,
distribution and supply system, then there is general
jurisdiction in the forum over the foreign subsidiary
that participates in this. But simply generally having
a parent-subsidiary relationship and shipping goods into
the forum, that's not what we're contending. And,
frankly, I don't think that that would be a situation in
which general jurisdiction would apply.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I see nothing in the
North Carolina court's opinion that explains that this
is the -- this is a corporation where we can obliterate
the distinction between parent and sub.
MS. PEDDIE: Your Honor, they do talk
repeatedly about the existence of this highly integrated
distribution system. I think it might be helpful to
sort of flip it over and say what would happen if we
adopted the Petitioners' view that you ignore the
system, and all you look at is a -- is a few sales. I
think that then you would end up with a situation that
would be unfair to the State of North Carolina in terms
of providing a forum for its residents.
For example, if I may give a hypothetical,
if you have a -- not a manufacturing plant in Turkey,
but, let's say, in China that is producing a massive
amount of tires for importation into the United States,
thousands of tires, in this same distribution system.
Based on their view that it has to be principal place of
business, State of incorporation, and that mere sales
are not -- don't count, and it has the same jurisdiction
system, then even that -- that producer -- and, frankly,
Goodyear is one of those producers -- wouldn't be liable
in North Carolina if the injury occurred someplace else.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's -- there's a -
you open your brief saying something to the effect of
this case is about outsourcing, jobs in the U.S. going
to some subsidiary port. But then these subsidiaries
are making tires which, on your own admission, very
rarely come to the United States because they're
designed specifically for vehicles in Asia and in
Europe. And so I would think that Turkey would be the
ideal location for -- for such a place. I don't get
your outsourcing pitch.
MS. PEDDIE: Your Honor, our -- our position
here is that you will incentivize outsourcing if you
agree with the Petitioners' view. With regard to the
existing plants, 1,500 miles, which is the distance from
Istanbul to Paris, is -- is not exactly local
production. But what we're talking about is, again,
something like the example that I gave you of a
production in China, that you have -- and -- and it's
based on the definition that we make of outsourcing,
which are jobs that simply were in the United States.
If a CEO is faced with a situation of
locating a plant in -- in North Carolina and subjecting
the production of that plant, even if it's completely
for export, and particularly if it's completely for
export, to the jurisdiction, the general jurisdiction,
of the State courts and can put that plant in China and
send items around the world and not be subject to the
jurisdiction of North Carolina, where do you think
they're going to put that plant?
Now, I don't disagree that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think he'd rather be
sued in China?
MS. PEDDIE: I think they would rather be
sued in China.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I wouldn't. I don't know
why anybody would.
MS. PEDDIE: Well -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And don't you think
that's a question as to which we ought to have some
sensitivity to the views of the United States expressed
here by the Solicitor General? It certainly implicates
foreign relations concerns.
MS. PEDDIE: Your Honor, I think that the -
well, let me answer this in two ways. The first way is
the policy considerations, either on our side or their
side, are not due process issues.
And the second point that I was going to
make was the idea that the Due Process Clause doesn't
trump the exercise of jurisdiction over the Petitioners
here based on policy. Instead, it has to be a showing
of unfairness -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your
argument about outsourcing sounded an awful lot like a
policy argument to me.
MS. PEDDIE: Well, it is a policy argument,
but I think, Your Honor, that -- in all candor, I think
we felt the need to -- to respond to the policy
arguments of not just the Government but also to the
other side.
I would -- I would say, let me -- if I might
complete -- complete the other thought, is that all of
those considerations, as interesting as they are, as
compelling as they may seem, you know, are not due
process considerations. This Court really isn't
empowered to restrict the jurisdiction of State courts
based on assisting the United States in negotiating
trade treaties; instead, it has to be based on
unfairness and a showing of undue burden.
With regard to -- getting back to the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's just not unfairness
and undue burden. It's a matter of what -- what power a
sovereign has.
MS. PEDDIE: That's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, it could be
perfectly fair if you announce that you're going to
assert jurisdiction over anybody who harms an American
citizen anywhere in the world, and you give notice to
every manufacturer in the world. That would be
perfectly fair, but you have no power to do that
under -- under accepted notions of what a sovereign can
do.
MS. PEDDIE: And -- and it would be tempered
by the -- the burdens test that is articulated in Asahi
and elsewhere, but none of that impacts, you know,
policy considerations such as trade negotiations,
et cetera. And the focus has been fairness and balance
of interests. And here you have a -- a manufacturer and
you have Petitioners who voluntarily participated in an
enterprise that operates in the State here. And we
think that there's nothing unfair about -- when they
agreed to deal with this, when they made money off of
doing this, when they do this on an ongoing basis,
there's nothing unfair about -- about subjecting them to
liability there.
And particularly when you look at the Asahi
factors, there's really no burden on the defendants
here. One of the things that the Petitioners did not
respond to in our -- our brief is the notion that no
matter what this Court decides, two of these Petitioners
are going to be litigating in a foreign country
anywhere. And the only thing that they have interjected
as a burden is the presumptive burden of litigating in
another country. They're going to be litigating in
another country unless a court atomizes this case and
says that the Petitioners have to litigate in four
different states.
So there's nothing -- there's nothing to
sort of suggest that there's -- there's any burden, nor,
therefore, a basis for restricting the jurisdiction of
the North Carolina State courts based on due process
concerns.
By contrast -- and the other thing that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Only if you believe that
burden is the only issue. The issue is power, not just
burden.
MS. PEDDIE: That's -- that's correct, but
the -- but at least this Court has said, since Pennoyer
v. Neff, that the power is tempered only by the Due
Process Clause, not about policy concerns. And so,
it -- as -- as -- I think the Court is correct that it
may be perfectly fair to announce this to the world, but
it's up to this Court to determine whether due process
would restrict the exercise of that power, and it does
it on an enunciated set of factors, none of which
includes assisting the United States in negotiating
trade treaties.
The Petitioners, I think, as we've
suggested, have not really shown any sort of burden
here, and they would be litigating with the same lawyers
in the -- same lawyers in the same forum as their
parent. And the Court has observed that even the kinds
of litigation that would take place, the burdens on
litigating in a foreign -- foreign forum are much
reduced, and that was in 1957, the year that I was born.
The primary objections here are based on
trade. I think it's -- it's interesting that the
Government has -- has talked about those, but I don't
think that's a basis for restricting jurisdiction.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could you go back?
You -- you said something about the two of them are
subject to suit. You said this is a question of one
lawsuit instead of four. Could you explain that?
MS. PEDDIE: Well, for example, the parent
and the three Petitioners all have principal places of
business in four different countries. And we have
general jurisdiction over the parent in the forum. We
have the same lawyers that are representing all the
parties in the forum, and we intend to go forward in
the forum.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about France?
MS. PEDDIE: Well, in France the -- the
Petitioners from Luxembourg and from Turkey -- if they
litigate in France, they're going to be litigating in a
foreign country as well. And so, our question is: Why
is it somehow more convenient to litigate in France than
it is in the United States when you've got the same
lawyers and the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's not a question of
more convenience. It's a question that the claim arose
there, and then, of course, there was -- just because
the claim arose there, there would be some convenience
factors. All the witnesses to the accident are there;
whatever is left of the bus is there.
MS. PEDDIE: Well, those -- those are the
forum non conveniens issues that -- that a -- that a
court would consider. But I'm talking about the due
process question in terms of investigating the -- the
actual burden on the Petitioners in litigating in the
forum. And the only thing that they've really focused
on is their preference for that forum, which is not a
due process concern.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Feder, you have 5 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MEIR FEDER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. FEDER: Thank you, Your Honor.
The purported integrated distribution that
Respondents are pointing to as the basis for ignoring
the corporate separation here, whatever else you could
say about it and whether it's really any different from
normal coordination, it only relates to the tiny
fraction of Petitioners' business that involved tires
going to the United States.
So -- where they didn't normally market
their products, and so, of course, everything that they
sent to the United States was only when the U.S.
affiliate reached out to get tires. That does not -
under any theory of which I'm aware, even the most
aggressive enterprise theory, that would not amount to a
basis for merging the two companies and treating parent
and sub as if they were one.
As far as the hypothetical about China goes,
I wanted to briefly address that. Of course, to the
extent that there are a lot of tires sent in from China
or anywhere else to North Carolina or any other State,
there will be specific jurisdiction most likely in those
cases.
Our position here is simply that the fact
that tires are coming in, over which you may have
specific jurisdiction, is no basis to say that you can
also bring in North Carolina what general jurisdiction
would allow you to bring: claims from workplace
accidents in China, lease disputes, and whatever else.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about special
jurisdiction? Why don't -- why we decide this on the
basis of special jurisdiction? It's an accepted basis
of jurisdiction. Citizenship is. Countries can make it
a crime -- in fact, I think Italy does -- to kill an
Italian citizen abroad, and that person can be tried for
that crime in Italy. So I assume that -- that that is
an acceptable basis of jurisdiction.
So why don't we say that there's a
specialized jurisdiction when a citizen of -- of North
Carolina is -- is injured abroad, so long as there is -
what -- what is the word? The submission to the -- to
the courts of North Carolina by having enough contacts
with North Carolina. The previous case -- what's that
crazy word that's -
MR. FEDER: Availment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Availment. I meant to look
that up. I'm not sure -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure it's ever been
used except in this courtroom.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why don't we decide
it that way?
MR. FEDER: Well, Your Honor, I don't -- I
don't think our law has a concept of special
jurisdiction like that, as consistent with the Due
Process Clause, and I think that even -- I won't purport
to speak for the Respondents in the other case, but I
think that they would probably agree that if the
accident had happened to a New Jersey citizen in France,
that that would not create, even under their
stream-of-commerce theory, jurisdiction.
Under our due process precedents, you need
purposeful availment. And for general jurisdiction, of
course, you need quite a bit more than that. And so,
while creative, I don't think that would quite carry the
day.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There is -- there is a
country that has this -- what Justice Scalia -- France,
in the Civil Code, says that any French citizen can sue
anybody on any claim in France. But we consider that an
exorbitant jurisdictional rule.
MR. FEDER: We -- we do, Your Honor, and
obviously we wouldn't recognize that under our Due
Process Clause, and I think it points up some of the
reasons why, at least at the margins, it is important to
be able to negotiate treaties so that we can avoid
having that sort of jurisdiction exercised against our
citizens, just as within the European Community they
have an agreement that it's not exercised within that
community.
If there are no further questions -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:16 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
51:4 aggregation 27:6 applied 16:18 23:7 based 3:18 4:8
51:13 ago 26:13 25:9,20 40:3 Assistant 1:20 22:25 23:8
50:11 appoint 15:19 46:2 32:24 35:10
25:19 24:15 26:17 19:25 33:16 basically 34:24
13:9 37:15 allegation 18:6 area 9:5 11:18 atomizes 45:6 11:6 17:4 24:22
47:14 allegedly 30:20 areas 26:11 attributable 24:23 44:19
allow 49:5 arguendo 10:17 17:13 45:11 46:15
18:21 22:20 2:2,5,9,12 3:3,7 attributed 14:8 bear 36:18
alter 16:20 37:18 7:24 8:3,6,7,10 25:18 bears 23:15
13:6 17:11 amicus 1:22 2:8 18:12 21:13 attribution 10:10 1:24 2:4,7,11
27:11 48:17 48:2 13:6 25:17 48:3
36:1 ample 22:13 arguments 43:10 automatically believe 19:23
analogous 5:6 21:3 23:1 availment 19:7 bell 22:3
48:21 answer 4:22,23 arrived 37:2 avoiding 22:11 beyond 4:19 5:5
24:10,25 28:4 35:18 26:12 37:21 borne 36:15
15:19 17:10 APPEARANC... 11:22 12:23 backed 36:21 bound 24:25
18:1,4 1:17 13:3 14:2 44:3 backwards 18:5 boy 31:8
19:3 Canadian 33:9 16:3 20:21 citizens 51:6 43:13,13
24:5,11 33:12 26:19 48:25 Citizenship completely 5:9
28:3 34:22 candor 43:8 case-specific 49:10 18:18 41:25
Cannon 25:21 25:22,24 26:5 Civil 50:22 42:1
41:4 44:25 care 37:11 category 31:5 claim 3:25 7:11 complicated
48:21 3:16,17,18 4:6 cause 24:19 21:9 22:25 23:2 comprehend 4:3
14:7,14 15:18 38:20 15:20 21:3 23:3 16:20 17:6,7
30:25 33:10,22,25 cert 8:10 45:21 50:9 51:2 concerns 4:13
34:9,10 37:13 certainly 10:7 clear 9:5 13:15 42:19 45:13,21
45:4,4,10 42:5 45:12 cetera 21:18 10:20 15:4 21:4 26:16
46:5 48:23 49:4,17 28:1 44:13 closed 30:11 27:5
49:19,20 changed 24:8 Code 50:22 conducted 25:17
carry 50:18 23:12,16 COLLYN 1:24 Confectionary
31:3 33:8 case 3:4,12 4:13 chargeable 33:12,25 41:8 connected 13:10
47:15 4:24 5:1,16,22 18:14 comes 8:5 39:7 connection 7:19
5:10,20 12:15 14:21 21:19,20 22:3,5 25:16 4:24 5:13 15:23
13:2 16:4,7 18:14 22:8 42:15 43:4 community 51:6 16:2,9
17:20 20:14,15 21:1 47:25 51:10 51:8 consented 4:6
27:9,10 21:13,25 23:4,6 children 33:8 companies 18:7 16:9 37:11
29:19 23:10,12,13,15 China 40:19 18:22 33:23 consenting 15:25
32:16 23:15,16 24:17 41:20 42:3,9,11 36:10 37:13 consequences
34:19 35:1 27:2 30:20 48:20,22 49:6 48:18 14:15 16:19
40:23 31:13,13,14 Chocolate 38:15 company 4:6 5:1 20:25
48:10 32:9 34:3,9,13 circle 13:11 6:11 7:1,5,10 consider 34:7
38:15,16,22,23 31:1 19:18 36:10 considerations
41:5 45:6 citations 36:18 compelling 43:15 42:22 43:14,16
11:1 coordinate 29:14 13:25 14:1,6,9 death 34:1 differently 37:25
29:21 30:13 16:1,16 17:3 decided 9:1 10:8 direct 7:19
6:3 11:24 corporate 6:1 24:4,10,11,13 11:15 14:14 10:15,18 11:7
13:12 8:11,18 9:11 24:19,21,21,25 17:4 24:25 36:11,24
11:25 12:2 25:16 26:10 32:24 disagree 27:24
15:2,9,12 16:17 17:5 27:13 28:1,4,13 decline 22:12 42:7
18:4 20:2 37:18 48:7 28:21 32:18,20 defect 38:19 disagreement
31:19 corporation 5:2,4 32:23 34:13 defend 24:2 5:15
35:11 5:11 12:8,18 35:6 43:16 45:1 defendant 15:4 discovery 38:23
15:17 19:12,20 45:6,19,22,24 21:2,10 27:9 discussed 21:18
32:13,15 38:12 courtroom 20:11 44:23 discussion 23:24
27:20 28:5 36:2 43:17 45:12 demanded 14:10 dispute-blind
14:10,19 correct 23:20,25 14:14 34:24 depend 33:15 distance 41:16
27:9 24:20 39:14 40:5 deposition 39:1 distinction 11:6
45:18,22 CO-ADMINI... described 12:25 23:20 31:17
counsel 13:19 create 5:14 7:15 30:25 41:9 distribution 28:6
30:1,7 40:24 created 35:15 determine 45:24 36:12,23 37:4
counting 26:15 creates 18:1 determined 29:1 39:22 40:10,21
39:21 49:10 crime 49:11,13 16:18 distributor 19:13
47:6 50:21 13:22 develop 39:2,3 29:14,19
16:14 19:9 D 20:21,22,23 division 15:22
50:17 dangling 25:12 37:12 18:21 23:21
47:17 3:11,16 6:1,4 DAVID 1:9 18:25 22:1 44:19
essentially 5:2 extend 16:10 filed 16:14 free 8:6
43:15 22:16 33:17 48:22 findings 28:20 full 20:18
ESTATE 1:8 extraordinary first 5:20 9:14 functioning 32:6
50:8 et 1:4,7,9 21:18 11:20 17:16 22:13 further 13:17
51:1 28:1 44:13 27:11 42:21 51:9
fact 5:18 9:3,10 23:19 44:13 G 3:1
evidentiary 26:5 33:16 34:20,21 foreign 21:17 10:21,25 11:3
28:24 29:21 36:24 47:6 19:19 20:25
25:24 37:7 fairly 16:1 20:23 23:1,2 27:11 33:5,13,17,22
exercise 22:14 fairness 44:13 39:17,23 40:1 38:11 39:6,20
16:10,12 45:25 far 13:7 19:2 46:23,25 47:1 42:18 46:23
27:10,12 exercised 51:5,7 25:15 26:12 47:17,21,22 49:4 50:16
44:16 exist 12:13 13:13 48:20 forward 38:6 generally 11:9
29:9 far-reaching 46:25 30:24 39:24
existing 12:19 4:10,21 6:14,19 46:19,22 GINSBURG 4:2
exists 38:11 9:24 10:4,7 48:10 15:16 22:18
35:4 hypothetical 41:2 Italy 49:11,13
44:4 happen 30:10 I 40:9 48:5 I'm-just-curious
37:21 harms 44:3 identical 38:1 interactions J 1:20 2:6 13:21
46:16,25 hear 3:3 identified 27:14 25:22 26:6 January 1:12
29:20 held 3:16 6:4 ignore 8:18 27:7 36:7 job 29:22
Helicopteros 23:18 40:12 interest 13:9 jobs 41:5,22
21:6,8 10:24 11:5 9:20 48:6 interesting 43:14 37:8
33:9 12:10 13:11 II 12:17 46:13 judgment 19:15
42:6,24 14:25 31:12 impacts 44:11 interests 39:10 21:3
45:2,5 help 6:10 9:5 implicates 42:18 44:14 judicial 3:22
48:11 13:15 24:7,13 implicitly 18:19 interjected 45:3 JULIAN 1:9
home 5:3 32:5,6 40:20 International 4:17,19,25 5:14
7:17 8:5 Honor 4:5,22 39:8 12:7 8:21,25 10:21
18:9,20 6:23 8:4,23 imputation 38:6 Internet 21:16 10:25 11:3,11
29:2,2 10:8 12:20 inappropriate 21:23 11:19,21 12:4,7
23:11 25:15 24:6 interrelationship 12:24 13:3,8
35:17 27:25 29:12,17 incentivize 41:14 15:13 14:2 15:24
29:20 32:8 includes 46:2 interrupting 32:3 16:12 17:12
41:1 33:16 34:23 incorporation interruption 15:6 19:5,6,9,11,18
23:16 39:18 40:8 34:20 35:1,14 47:19 21:5,9,11 22:11
46:14 41:13 42:20 40:23 involved 12:8 22:15,16,19,20
50:25 independent involvement 23:25 24:18
hoping 20:6,11 19:20 involving 13:1 26:9,22 31:15
11:1,4,9 Horwich 1:20 2:6 indicates 36:20 issue 11:14 34:17,18 37:12
13:20,21,24 indicia 17:1 34:14,15 39:1 38:2,5,11 39:6
19:23 20:19 individually 31:4 issues 42:23 40:24 42:2,2,5
inherent 7:13 47:17 43:1,17 44:3
Kennedy 6:8,16 41:1 making 9:11 million 6:2 13:14
51:5 6:20 20:13,19 liberal 33:11 22:22 24:16 mines 12:17
14:15 key 6:4 limitation 34:12manifest 13:8 minute 16:11
20:24 kill 49:11 34:24 Manley 38:10,15 minutes 48:1
34:15 kind 8:21 12:14 limited 5:18,19 manufactured mistake 28:14
50:24 17:4 19:1 36:7 30:6 34:25 39:1
28:25 misunderstood
4:2,8,16 6:8 46:8 litigate 45:7 47:5
7:23 King 25:16 47:7 40:18 modest 17:16
9:18,25 know 20:4 21:16 litigating 45:2,4
12:14 23:4,10 35:7 45:5 46:6,10 market 30:22,25 money 44:18
15:16 42:12 43:15 47:5,20 48:12 motion 38:25
18:23,25 44:11 litigation 7:5 markets 30:22
Kramer 29:4,21 21:11 46:9 massive 40:19 N
21:12 little 19:2 matter 1:14 N 2:1,1 3:1
22:3,5 L live 34:10 37:25 38:1 nation's 7:6
23:20 language 11:25 lives 34:11 43:23 45:1 nature 11:20
25:5,8,12 24:6 31:19,20 local 26:12 38:1351:13 12:3 21:6
26:2,20 32:21,23 41:17 mean 17:17,20 necessary 6:22
27:1,15 Laughter 20:8 located 3:15 5:3 21:12,13 28:12 24:15
29:8,13 20:12 21:21 locating 41:24 29:8,13 38:21 need 11:25 13:4
30:18 22:2,4 25:7,14 location 41:11 44:1 43:9 50:15,17
32:4,12 49:25 50:3 long 39:15 49:17means 15:8 needed 31:21
33:4,20 law 9:5 11:8 look 10:13 11:5 meant 49:23 needs 15:8
35:12,25 14:21 35:2,3,9 11:13 28:7 measures 27:25 Neff 45:20
37:5,9,23 35:10 38:1,10 34:13,14 40:13
39:12 39:6,12 50:7 44:22 49:23 2:13 3:7 48:2 51:4
41:3 42:8 lawsuit 46:19 looking 12:12 mention 34:22 negotiating
43:4 lawyers 46:6,7 13:12 mentioning 43:18 46:2
44:1 46:24 47:9 lot 8:16 11:8 24:4
negotiations
46:16 lead 26:6 24:13 29:9 mere 3:20 6:5 44:12
49:7lease 49:6 33:16 43:5 7:13 10:9,24 never 8:7,9 21:8
50:1,4,20leave 8:16 25:12 48:22 11:2,6,7 13:16 34:3
51:10 26:18 low 31:8 19:7 23:17 new 1:18,18
20:6,9 liability 7:15 8:5 M merging 48:18 normal 48:9
37:9,23 21:15 38:7,7 magnitude 20:22 met 7:23 normally 9:12
32:21 37:15 38:19 32:10 miles 41:16 3:16,18 4:6,11
7:4,6,7 open 8:16 41:4 4:13,17 6:11 27:2,15,24 Philippine 12:16
14:1,7,14 operates 28:22 7:1,5,10,24 8:1 28:11,15 29:12 physical 11:10
22:11,14 44:16 17:17,21 18:8 29:17,20 30:23 35:1
28:25 operations 1:3 18:14,19 28:4 31:17 32:8,14 picked 10:16
31:10 33:6 3:4 12:1,2 30:1,9,12,14 32:18 33:15 picture 4:18
opinion 8:17,20 30:15,16 37:24 34:2,23 35:12 piece 4:2
37:13 8:22 24:14 40:5 39:15,17 40:7 35:24 36:3,15 piercing 7:7
opportunities 46:8,20,23 37:7,9,16 38:3 37:17
39:5 40:5 19:8 48:18 38:21 39:18 piercing-the-c...
41:2,24 opportunity 9:9 parenthesis 8:19 40:8 41:13 27:18
45:12 39:2 8:20 42:10,14,20 pitch 41:12
49:4,16 opposition 8:10 parents 17:18 43:7,25 44:9 place 4:20 5:19
oral 1:14 2:2,5,9 parent's 17:18 45:18 46:20 5:20 8:1 12:9
25:18 10:22 19:3,8 15:24 39:5 Plenty 17:18
41:2 owned 10:2 particularly 49:12 point 6:4,7 9:6,7
P 3:1 parts 15:15 13:23 14:2,8 points 20:17 51:2
27:2 28:3 36:23 37:5 passenger 31:3 32:22 34:25 43:9 44:12
principal-agent 32:2 48:15 10:10 11:23
26:11 purposeful 19:7 reading 19:22 21:10 36:7
21:2,14 22:17 24:18 24:9,12 50:16 realize 17:15 relevance 19:4,5
25:9 purposes 17:22 really 6:24 24:14 relevant 5:22
probably 4:23 39:8 35:22 43:16 reliance 17:8
44:6 50:11 put 9:9 20:20 44:23 46:5 remainder 13:18
problem 35:22 36:17 37:3 42:3 47:21 48:8 remaining 48:1
15:20 22:16 putting 4:24 reasoning 24:2 renovation 33:2
43:16 45:12,21 22:13 51:3 reply 8:13 36:21
50:9,15 51:2 qualities 15:10 13:18 48:2 36:16
producer 40:25 5:18 6:10 7:21 recognize 51:1 46:24
28:6 29:15 28:8,9,16,17 record 7:18 9:16 required 10:20
production 29:25 37:10 42:16 17:4 24:22,24 requirement
41:25 47:11,19 36:16,19 requirements
48:13 51:9 reference 14:25 requiring 11:9
properly 8:7 34:22 50:17,18 15:22,22 residence 22:21
proposition Regional 30:23 residents 40:16
8:2 12:9 provide 6:5 raised 9:8 15:18 respect 15:7 16:6
17:10,13 providing 40:16 ramifications regular 27:7 respond 43:9
33:1 proximate 37:19 33:5 regulatory 15:11 44:25
35:15 purchaser 31:14 rarely 41:8 related 16:8 respondeat 6:12
40:22 purchases 6:3,5 reach 3:22 9:14 37:20 7:2
10:24 11:6 10:5,7 11:22 relates 48:9 Respondents
22:7 48:6 Saved 22:3 separateness solicitation 29:25 11:22,24 12:1,5
saying 9:18 17:5 solicited 29:1 13:3,4,6,8,10
28:13 35:20 service 4:7 5:13 25:4,19 27:3 15:24 19:8,15
38:18 41:4 setting 7:21 42:18 28:23 35:1,2,3
15:19 18:4 sham 9:23 16:24 somewhat 17:8 38:23 39:17
24:4 28:10 23:20 25:5,8,12 11:13,17,24 15:1,23 19:24 2:7 13:22 18:20
35:13,17 25:24 26:2,20 12:7 23:4 22:21 23:22 19:14,22 30:9
26:24 27:1 28:8 shopping 34:5 27:25 31:20,24 30:16 31:8
20:10 44:1 45:15 49:7 showing 43:2,20 35:12,25 36:9 43:18 45:8 46:2
22:3,5 49:23 50:1,4,21 shown 46:5 38:17 47:8 48:11,14
43:4 scope 17:10 side 11:2 16:2 sound 16:22 State's 5:6 7:6
51:10 second 17:23 29:4 30:5 42:22 sounded 43:5 19:11
secondly 8:13 significant 3:24 44:7 stay 34:4
selling 32:1,1 39:24 41:22 49:7,9 50:7 48:19
13:16 36:24 37:1 small 3:18 specific-jurisdi... submission
23:17,18 48:14,22 smallest 21:14 20:2,3 49:18
31:14,18 sentence 19:3 sold 19:12,20 standard 12:11 submitted 51:11
40:13,23 20:17 23:23 31:4,5 standards 7:7 51:13
8:19 9:22 suspense 25:6 Thank 13:19 three 26:24 31:2 turn 14:18 30:21
17:17,18 sweeping 27:18 47:24,25 48:4 33:6,21 36:22 turned 33:25
28:5 system 27:4,6,10 51:10 46:21 turns 18:18
39:14,16 27:12 28:22 theirs 14:4 16:15 ticket 29:23 twice 36:19
41:6 29:7 30:4,11 theory 8:11 tightly 39:21 two 16:17 17:14
12:3 40:10,13,21,25 48:16,17 50:14 13:18 32:6 26:24 32:11
39:8 14:19 15:2,7 23:5,22 45:3,14 tire 7:16,17 8:5 46:17 48:18
38:19 S.A 1:4 things 9:8,12 tires 1:3 3:4
T 2:1,1 44:24 36:13 40:20,21 12:4
38:6 46:18 46:14 17:3,7 19:17,24 43:19 44:12 undifferentiated
41:18 47:18 28:2,7,15,15 treated 28:4 unfairness 43:3
39:22 Tell 25:8 32:8,19 33:15 treating 48:18 27:13,17 29:18
45:20 35:2,7,8 36:3 treats 37:24 2:7 13:22 18:20
12:23 14:10 40:14 41:10 tried 49:12 31:7 33:13
13:23 40:15 47:19 42:20 43:8,8 trump 43:1 40:20 41:8,22
testified 29:22 46:4,13,15 27:17 46:2 47:8 48:11
33:8 testimony 29:4 50:18 51:2 tune 24:8 unrelated 3:14
tests 14:13 thought 9:18 18:13,16 30:7 untenable 11:16
30:12,18 X
37:11,14 17:25 20:20 Y
36:14 weren't 11:4
48:14 we'll 3:3 27:3
41:16
13:12
31:2
23:5 25:21 11:15 1:16 3:2
36:4,5
112 18:10
40:1 41:18
39:2
46:4
40:12,22 1957 46:11
wondering 20:13 2
worldwide 3:23 327 24:11
29:10 wouldn't 23:13 4
38:1 30:8 33:11 35:4 48 2:14
48:21 write 8:17,24 5
16:13 37:20 50 19:14,21
Wyatt 38:13
