IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CURT MESSERSCHMIDT, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 10-704
v. :
BRENDA MILLENDER, AS EXECUTOR OF :
THE ESTATE OF AUGUSTA MILLENDER, :
DECEASED, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, December 5, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:08 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
TIMOTHY T. COATES, ESQ., Los Angeles, California; for
Petitioners.
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Principal Deputy Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, in support of
Petitioners.
PAUL R.Q. WOLFSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
TIMOTHY T. COATES, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, 20
as amicus curiae, in support of the
Petitioners
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL R.Q. WOLFSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 31
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
TIMOTHY T. COATES, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 61
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:08 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 10-704, Messerschmidt v. Millender.
Mr. Coates.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY T. COATES
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. COATES: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In Malley v. Briggs and United
States v. Leon, this Court set forth a very high
standard for denying qualified immunity in the civil
context or suppressing evidence in the criminal context
under circumstances where a police officer has procured
a warrant that is subsequently determined to be invalid.
Specifically, the Court held that the
initial magistrate's determination is -- is entitled to
great deference, and that you'll go behind that only in
cases where the officer falsified information or omitted
exculpatory information, where the affidavit was
bare-bones, or there was some indication that the
judicial officer did not perform the function, and then
a catch-all provision, where the warrant was so lacking
in indicia of probable cause that no reasonable officer
could even submit it for a magistrate's determination.
And specifically in Malley, the Court said it had to be
the actions of an officer that was plainly incompetent
or knowingly violating the law.
This case arises from a Ninth Circuit
decision that we submit does not apply the Court's
standards, under circumstances where the officer
submitted, far from a bare-bones affidavit, but a highly
detailed, factual affidavit that we submit provided
probable cause for the search or at least, under the
Court's qualified immunity jurisprudence, a reasonable
officer could believe that the warrant had probable
cause.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There -- I suppose
one new feature of the case is the fact that these
officers submitted the affidavit to their superiors, who
were -- were attorneys.
MR. COATES: Correct. There --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Have we -- have we
addressed that in a prior case?
MR. COATES: I don't know that the Court --
the Court has -- in, I believe, the exclusion context I
think I have seen it. I can't recall the case, but I
believe it has, and the circuit courts certainly have
talked about that as an indicia of good faith, the
officer being willing to submit his work to someone else
to review it. So --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it isn't good faith
here; that's the problem, that we don't have a good
faith test. We -- we have a test that goes beyond good
faith. Even if the officer is in good faith, according
to the test we've set forth, if he's so stupid that --
that he -- he executes a warrant that no reasonable
officer could think was correct, he's -- he's in the
pot, right?
MR. COATES: Well, that -- that's the test
that the Court has set out. But it's a high test,
plainly incompetent or knowingly violating the law. And
I think what these are additional factual circumstances
that show at least the officer is trying to be careful,
that this isn't something that's been -- been tossed
off.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I thought in
the Leon case that, in fact, just like the claim in this
case, that the affidavit was submitted to supervisors,
and the Court created the Leon test in spite of that.
So, to say do we have a case on point, Leon itself is on
point. We created the test in the face of supervisors'
review. You're not actually, are you, arguing a
Nuremberg defense now?
MR. COATES: No. I'm just saying that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That -- that simply
because supervisors decide, that it's okay, that that --
MR. COATES: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- exculpates someone
from responsibility?
MR. COATES: Certainly not. And as I say,
this comes up in the qualified immunity context
repeatedly among the circuit courts. They've recognized
it as a -- as a factor. But it's not dispositive, not
by any mean. I agree with -- I agree with that, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Then let's
go to the other two ways that I think you're asking us
to overrule our precedent. The first is the using
subjective information that a police officer knows but
hasn't disclosed in the warrant. I'm having a little
bit of difficulty understanding how an entire warrant
regime that presumes that the magistrate has all
pertinent information -- and that's why you would be let
off the hook -- how you can excuse a police officer when
he doesn't place that information in front of the
magistrate.
MR. COATES: The way that has generally come
up has not been in the validity of the warrant for
purposes of the Fourth Amendment, but in terms of
qualified immunity for the officer or exclusion of the
evidence under -- or not -- or nonsuppression, rather,
under the good faith exception. And it's whether the
officer, in light of the totality of the circumstances,
might not have recognized that the warrant was deficient
if the warrant otherwise isn't -- isn't bare-bones.
And I think we -- Leon itself in footnote 23
incorporates the Harlow standard of totality of
circumstances.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me how, this case,
the bare-bone affidavit was sufficient? All it says is
that this defendant is a member of a gang, but when the
police officer is questioned, he's asked whether this
crime at issue had any connection to his gang
relationship, and the answer was no. So, how is the
request in the warrant to search for all gang-related
indicia anything more than the general warrant that our
Founding Fathers in part passed the Fourth Amendment
against?
MR. COATES: Oh, I mean, this is not per se
a gang crime --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is almost like --
MR. COATES: Without -- without a doubt,
it's not a -- what we consider a gangland crime, one
gang member against the other. It's a domestic assault
by a gang member on his girlfriend with a sawed-off
shotgun in public, right after police officers that were
there to protect her had left. So, it's not
gang-related in that sense. But I don't think that the
gang membership is irrelevant to the investigation in
this case. You know, as we note, and I think it's
fairly recognized, gang members have means to procure
and use weapons beyond that of ordinary people.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, if you have a gang
member and the crime has absolutely nothing to do with
gang membership -- that I think is the case here; it's a
domestic assault -- as long as you're a gang member,
then every warrant can say search for all gang-related
information? That's essentially your position, isn't
it?
MR. COATES: No, it isn't, because it's
always a fact-specific inquiry. The Court's made that
clear in Illinois v. Gates and for qualified immunity in
Anderson v. Creighton. We're --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- you said this
is domestic assault. There is no gang activity involved
in that assault, right?
MR. COATES: Well, the gentleman is using a
sawed-off shotgun, which is a weapon associated with --
with gangs. I don't think it's a stretch for an officer
to think that there might be some connection to the
manner in which he procured that weapon, might hide that
weapon --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, anyone who has a
weapon and is a member of a gang then can be -- there
can be a search for any and all weapons and material
related to weapons?
MR. COATES: Well, it depends on the
circumstances of the crime that you are investigating.
Here we have an assault, we have a domestic assault with
indications that the gentleman intends to continue it.
And, indeed, that's why the warrant is for all weapons,
because it would make little sense to say you can go and
you can find a sawed-off shotgun --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm -- I'm on to the part
about all gang-related activity, when the crime has
nothing to do with the -- with the gang. Let's -- let's
stick to that. Then guns is another issue. But this
said warrant to search for any and all gang-related
items?
MR. COATES: Correct, Your Honor. But the
point is that's to be used to possibly tie Mr. Bowen to
any weapon that was found. It's identification
information. If they found, for example, the sawed-off
shotgun there and his gang colors with his gang moniker,
that would certainly help to tie him to that shotgun.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they didn't need to
tie him to the shotgun. They had photographs of him
with the shotgun.
MR. COATES: They have some evidence, but
you don't have to stop just because you have some
evidence. I mean, you're entitled to build your case as
strong as you --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What -- what do you need
more than here he is with his gun? The defendant
himself and his gun? I mean, what --
MR. COATES: Well, if you found the actual
shotgun there wrapped in his -- in his gang -- gang
colors with his gang moniker, I mean, it would make an
even stronger case. And I also note, say you find a
.45-caliber pistol wrapped in his gang colors with his
gang monikers. I don't --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What do we do with the
officer's testimony when he said -- "Did you have any
reason to believe there were any more weapons in the
house?" He said, "No." What -- when an officer says
that, why would then he think that he has complete
license to go and ask for a warrant that's looking for
more guns, when there's only evidence of him possessing
one?
MR. COATES: Because, again, the nature of
gang membership is that gangs --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you're answering --
you're answering Justice Ginsburg by saying that any
time a gang member commits any crime, the police are
entitled to seek a warrant that permits the search for
anything they have in their home that relates to their
gang membership and to -- to guns?
MR. COATES: No, because I think it depends.
Here we have a crime that definitely involves a gun,
involves an illegal gun --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That did not involve --
by the officer's admission and your own, that wasn't
gang-related.
MR. COATES: The assault, correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The assault --
MR. COATES: But the manner in which he
procures the weapon, might dispose of the weapon, and
nature of the weapon itself --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But wait a minute. That
has nothing to do with the gang, unless you're saying
that you had proof that the gang did something illegally
in helping him procure the weapon. What information did
you have to suggest that?
MR. COATES: Again, the nature of a
sawed-off shotgun; it's an illegal weapon in and of
itself.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Whose house -- whose
house was this?
MR. COATES: Augusta Millender's house, Ms.
Millender's home.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, it was not the
defendant's house?
MR. COATES: Correct. No, he was a foster
son who had come back to stay.
JUSTICE BREYER: To what --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Coates -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: To what extent are we
supposed to take things that aren't in the affidavit or
the warrant itself as relevant? I mean, the one thing
that bothers me as I read the affidavit, it doesn't say
someone else is living in the house. At least I didn't
see that.
And then the statement that Justice
Sotomayor said, well, that's later on in a deposition.
So -- so, if I were the magistrate sitting there and I
read the -- the affidavit, I might think I did have
cause, at least it's close maybe, but -- to allow them
to search for all the guns in the house. I might think
they all belonged to him. And, anyway, I might think he
thought that this could be used to -- other guns could
be used to go after her again.
But when I read he says, oh, I had no cause
at all for thinking that -- why isn't that the end of
it, if we're supposed to take that into account?
MR. COATES: Well, I mean, again, I think,
as he sets forth his experience as a gang officer and
the manner in which gangs dispose of, procure weapons --
JUSTICE BREYER: But he didn't say much
about the gang.
MR. COATES: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm asking you a specific
question. I mean, if I were supposed to take into
account his statement, I had no reason -- to paraphrase
it a little -- for thinking that any of these guns,
other guns, were going to be used for any purpose that's
illegal -- if he'd said that afterwards, if I take that
into account, I say, why isn't that the end of the case?
He had no cause to ask for the other guns, period. Now,
that was --
MR. COATES: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- the question, I think
roughly, that you were being asked, and I would like to
hear the answer. I thought the answer would be: I
don't have the right to take it into account. Now, do I
or don't I?
MR. COATES: Well, I mean, it's an -- it's
an objective standard. It's what a reasonable officer
would do with the facts before him.
JUSTICE BREYER: Wait. Before him?
MR. COATES: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Or before the -- is -- do I
look at the affidavits and the warrant, or do I also
look at things that are in neither of those documents
but were in the officer's head?
MR. COATES: For purposes of determining the
Fourth Amendment validity of the warrant, the Court has
said you -- you look at the warrant. Under the
qualified immunity test and in the criminal suppression
context of good faith, you can go outside that and look
at the totality of what the officer knew and, if in
light of what he knew, whether he could have believed it
was so.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, if I look
at whether he was in good faith, if he has any training
at all, I would guess that if he thought that there is
no -- I don't remember the exact words -- no reason, no
reason to believe there would be any weapons in the
house, no reason to believe there would be any handguns
in the house, and then I say, I want a warrant to search
for handguns in the house, it looks like you're asking
for a warrant to search for that for which you have no
reason to believe it's there. Now, that I would have
thought was not good faith. That was contrary to the
Fourth Amendment. Why isn't it?
MR. COATES: Because you -- you still have,
under 1524(a)(3) of the California Penal Code, the --
the ability to search for items that might be used with
the intent to commit another crime. And I think if this
was --
JUSTICE BREYER: Even though you can search
a person's house -- why don't I search the person's
house for an atomic bomb? And I say: Why are you doing
that? He says: I have no reason to believe it's there.
But that is a constitutional search?
MR. COATES: Well, again, I think -- going
back here in terms of -- stepping back from good faith
as opposed to probable cause, I don't think it's
irrelevant that this guy is a gang member. I don't
think it's unusual to think that, while you might know
specifically whether there's a handgun or not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Why are you
going back to good faith? I mean, that's --
MR. COATES: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that's what I think is
the problem with this case. If it's a good faith test,
you come out with one result. But the test we've
expressed is not good faith. This -- this police
officer could have been in the best of faith, but if
he's a very bad police officer, he's in the soup, right?
MR. COATES: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We don't have a good faith
test for this purpose.
MR. COATES: Sure. But a -- but the
standard is plainly incompetent or knowingly violating
the law, and I think -- again, there's enough detail in
there that I don't think it is illogical to say there's
some connection between gang membership and the
possibility or even the fair probability that there are
other weapons in a residence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, whenever -- I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I was just going to
say, of course you're making the case somewhat harder
for yourself because the issue here is whether it was
reasonable for him to say let me check and see what my
superiors think about this and then, after that review,
for him to say let's see what the magistrate thinks
about this, right?
MR. COATES: Correct. It's a -- it's a
further step back, because it's whether it's even
reasonable for him to ask the magistrate for a
determination --
JUSTICE BREYER: What cause is there to
think -- what cause is there to think that the gang guns
will be used to commit a crime?
MR. COATES: This is a gentleman who had
just perpetrated an assault with a sawed-off shotgun.
He didn't make -- specify, in terms of his threat, that
he would confine any further attack to a sawed-off
shotgun. I just don't think it's a stretch of logic for
an officer to believe that if he found a .45-caliber
pistol there wrapped in gang colors that he should be
able to seize it to prevent a future attack.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the -- the warrant
didn't just authorize, you know, firearms wrapped in
gang colors. It allowed him to search for any evidence
of gang membership, right?
MR. COATES: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But what possible purpose
could that serve?
MR. COATES: Again, because the evidence of
gang -- indicia of gang membership could be used to tie
him to things in the residence that you might find,
absolutely. I mean, it's an identifying characteristic
of Mr. Bowen.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If they were wrapped in it,
yes. But we know he's a gang member.
MR. COATES: Sure.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, all that the finding of
gang membership decals or whatever they wear -- all that
would show is, indeed, this guy was a gang member.
MR. COATES: And present --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And even then --
MR. COATES: Well -- excuse me, Your Honor.
And present in that particular premises, it might show
ownership or control, might show access to the weapons.
It's not irrelevant to that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But they -- they knew he
was in that premise. I mean, that -- I really don't
understand how you can possibly search for indicia of
gang membership. When you know the man's a gang member,
so what?
MR. COATES: Well, again, Your Honor, it
ties him closer -- it shows him there at their property.
If we see a photograph --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But tell me something.
There's 10 people in this house. There's 10 people in
this house, and as I understand it from the questioning,
they also knew other gang members were there. So, even
if they found gang colors, did they tell the -- the
magistrate that -- what would that prove when there's
multiple members in the house?
MR. COATES: Well, you could find, again,
gang -- indicia of gang membership as to him
individually with his moniker.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but it's not
limited to that.
MR. COATES: Well, correct. And he's also a
member of several gangs. So, you could find unique
colors for one of his gangs and not for the others.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What does that have to
do with anything other than a general search --
MR. COATES: Because, again, it's evidence
that could --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- a general search in
the hope of finding evidence of other crimes?
MR. COATES: No, because it --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what it sounds
like.
MR. COATES: No, because it would tie him to
anything found in that residence. Again, if you found a
.45 caliber pistol --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the provision
for any photographs that depict evidence of criminal
activity? That seems to me as general as you can get.
Photographs depicting evidence of criminal activity.
MR. COATES: That actually is in the section
that deals with indicia of gang membership. It has been
carved out by Respondents here for the first time as a
separate category. I note it was not argued down below
that way; it was not viewed at the district court that
way; it was not viewed by the circuit judges that way.
And I do have to say that we're sitting here
looking at 11 judges and, like, 6 attorneys have looked
at this, and they've never brought that out separately.
And now we're saying that should have jumped out to the
officers separately. I think we cite case law saying
that you should interpret that within the context of the
entire provision, which is the indicia of gang
membership provision.
And if I may, I'd like to reserve the
balance of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Srinivasan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
IN SUPPORT OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
When an officer follows the favored practice
under the Fourth Amendment of obtaining a warrant from a
neutral magistrate before conducting a search, the
officer in all but the most narrow circumstances can
rely on the magistrate's independent determination of
probable cause, without fear --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Srinivasan, there are
two categories of materials here. One is the search for
other guns. The other is the search for anything
relating to gang membership. If we think that those two
categories present different questions, if we think that
one is more beyond the bounds than another, that the
officer might have qualified immunity for, let's say,
the guns but not the evidence of gang membership, what
would happen in this case at that point?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think one of the
questions that would arise is whether the one as to
which you thought there was a problem would expand the
scope in a meaningful way, because if -- let's take Your
Honor's hypothesis that there's less of a reason to be
concerned about the firearms-related aspects of the
warrant than the gang-related parts of the warrant; then
the question would arise whether you would have a Fourth
Amendment violation in the first place, because if the
gang-related parts of the warrant didn't expand the
scope of the search in such a way that would implicate
independent privacy interests, there wouldn't be a
Fourth Amendment problem with that aspect of the
warrant. And, therefore, there -- you wouldn't have a
qualified immunity issue for sure.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And what does that depend
on, whether you would look for the indicia of gang
memberships in places where you wouldn't look for guns;
is that it?
MR. SRINIVASAN: That's right. You look --
you look at the two aspects of the warrant, and you ask
whether the second one, which is hypothesized to be the
problematic one, would allow you to search in places or
search with more intensity than the first --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if you're looking for
photographs that show gang membership, I guess you could
look through photograph albums. You wouldn't really
look there for guns, would you?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, but -- no. I think
the relevant language is at page 52 of the Joint
Appendix. That's what sets forth the two paragraphs at
issue. And the first paragraph, which Justice Kagan
supposes doesn't raise a problem -- and I'll engage that
assumption -- it provides not only for searches of all
firearms, but it provides, and we think legitimately,
for searches of any receipts or paperwork showing the
purchase, ownership, or possession of the handguns being
sought. And so, if -- and paperwork certainly includes
photographs, because if you find photographs of an
individual carrying a particular firearm, that's good
evidence. And so, photographic evidence is within the
scope of the first paragraph, not just the second. And
so, it does raise the question of whether the second
paragraph increases the scope.
The other point I'd raise in this respect is
that, in the second paragraph itself, the anchor
sentence in some respects in the second paragraph is the
second sentence, which discusses not gang-related
indicia in particular but articles of personal property
tending to establish the identity of persons in control
of the premise or premises, writ large. And note -- and
that provision has not been seen to have a -- have a
problem associated with it thus far. The district court
thought it was okay. The court of appeals, at page 27a
of the petition appendix, seemed to assume it was okay.
And that's understandable because there are a legion of
cases that support those sorts of provisions --
JUSTICE ALITO: There's something --
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- including the Ewing case
cited by the majority below.
JUSTICE ALITO: There's something very
strange about the rule that we are applying here. A
warrant was issued by a judge of the superior court;
isn't that right?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes, I believe so.
JUSTICE ALITO: And we're -- so, that judge,
who is a lawyer and was appointed as a judge and
presumably has some familiarity with the Fourth
Amendment, found that there was probable cause to search
for all of these things. And now we're asking whether a
reasonable police officer who is not a lawyer and
certainly is not a judge should have been able to see
that this call that was made by a judge was not only
wrong but so wrong that it -- you couldn't reasonably
think that the judge might be correct. Is there some
way to phrase this -- if this rule is to be retained in
any form, is there some way to phrase it so that it is
narrowed appropriately?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I -- I think the
Court has attempted to do that in Malley and Leon
itself, because it has made clear that in the main, in
all but the most narrow circumstances, where a
magistrate does find the existence of probable cause,
the court need not engage in any searching inquiry to
determine that qualified immunity is appropriate --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the most narrow
circumstance is defined as a circumstance in which no
reasonable police officer could have thought the warrant
was correct. Why don't we adopt a good --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- a good faith test for
this as we do in other -- in other --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think in some
sense, Justice Scalia, you have two -- in response to
the two parts of your question. First of all, in
defining what is objectively unreasonable in this
situation, the Court has used some pretty strong
language. In Malley, it spoke in terms of a magistrate
who's grossly incompetent. And in Leon, it spoke of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: A policeman. Policeman.
MR. SRINIVASAN: No, it was speaking of a
magistrate actually, and not the officers. Because the
point is that in order to find that officers are liable
in this situation, the officers would have to be so sure
that probable cause is lacking that only a grossly
incompetent magistrate could sign off on the probable
cause assessment. So, it used gross incompetence with
respect to the magistrate, which illustrates the degree
to which the standard is heightened in this context.
And in terms of whether good faith
principles come into play in the qualified immunity
context, what the Court said in Malley is that the same
standard for objective -- of reasonableness that governs
in the good faith context for suppression purposes also
governs in the qualified immunity context under 1983.
And so, I think there is room to import into the
qualified immunity context these principles of good
faith, like, for example, Mr. Chief Justice, the
question of whether the officers in question asked
superiors for their assessment of whether there's
probable cause.
And in Sheppard, which was a suppression
case, but in Sheppard, at page 9 -- 8 and 9 of the
opinion, the Court specifically made reference to the
fact that the officer in that case had asked for a
probable cause assessment --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't like this
mishmash. Look, it's either good faith or it's --
however good his faith was, however well he showed his
good faith by checking with his superiors or what not,
if he made -- if he made an incompetent decision, it's
incompetent. And we should not mix the two, it seems to
me.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, that -- I mean,
certainly I don't want to urge any -- anything upon the
Court that would tend to water down the standard in the
suppression context, but the only point I'd add to this,
Justice Scalia, is that when you're looking at it from
the perspective of a reasonable officer who's trying to
assess whether he should go forward and ask for
assessment of probable cause from the magistrate, one
consideration that seems natural to take into account is
what actions the officer has taken, not just the quantum
of proof that the officer has put in the affidavit but
what actions has he taken. Has he asked for a -- has he
asked his supervisor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That would be wonderful if
the test was, was this -- did this officer know that
this was a bad affidavit and was acting in bad faith in
executing it? If that was the test, then indeed the
fact that he had checked with his superiors and all of
that good stuff would -- would have some relevance.
MR. SRINIVASAN: The test as outlined by the
Court in Malley is whether it's objectively reasonable
for the officer to rely on the magistrate's assessment
of probable cause.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Srinivasan --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I though the test was "so
lacking in indicia of probable cause as to render
official belief in its existence unreasonable."
MR. SRINIVASAN: It -- the Court did say
that, Your Honor, and the Court put the formulation in a
number of respects in Malley itself. It said, "We hold
that the" -- this is at page 344: "We hold that the
same standard of objective reasonableness that we
applied in the context of a suppression hearing in Leon
defines the qualified immunity accorded an officer whose
request for a warrant allegedly caused an
unconstitutional arrest."
And I think that's where the Court then goes
on and articulates what Your Honor just quoted. But
then the Court later says: "In Leon" -- and this is at
page -- this is at page 345: "In Leon, we stated that
'our objective faith' -- 'good faith inquiry is confined
to the objectively ascertainable question of whether a
reasonably well-trained officer would have known that
the search was illegal despite the magistrate's
authorization.' The analogous question in this case,"
and it goes on to speak about the analogous question.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess the question,
Mr. Srinivasan, is, do you think that the current test,
that the test as currently formulated, is sufficiently
protective of police officers? Or do you think that we
need to change the test in order to give police officers
the protection they need?
MR. SRINIVASAN: We think if the current
test is applied properly, it's sufficiently protective.
And really the question is how it's applied. And in
this case it was applied in -- in a way that I think is
not sufficiently protective of police officers.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, you could say
that about any test, you know? If you apply it
protectively, it will protect.
MR. SRINIVASAN: You could --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if you don't apply it
protectively, it won't protect.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did you --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'd like a test that, you
know, that protects when it ought to and doesn't protect
when it ought not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did you say apply
protectively or correctly?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Applied -- well, I meant to
say applied correctly.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
MR. SRINIVASAN: If applied correctly -- I
apologize if I misspoke. If applied correctly, it
should sufficiently protect --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In the background of this
case is -- is this question: A suspect has a weapon.
He flees. As a general rule, do you think that warrants
can say that when they search the home or the place
where this person is likely to be, they can seize all
weapons? Just as a general rule?
MR. SRINIVASAN: No -- not necessarily as a
general rule, Justice Kennedy. It has to be
context-specific. And here you had a lot more than
that. You had an individual who had perpetrated an
attempted murder, who was a known member of a violent
gang, who had -- who had perpetrated physical assaults
against this victim before, and who had directly
threatened the victim that he would murder her if she
ever went to the police and that he was going to kill
her.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You keep adding facts
that weren't --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So -- so, the test is
whether or not he is likely to commit another crime?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, that's the test
that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, that's -- I
thought the Petitioner said -- I didn't have the time to
interrupt -- that under California law, they can search
for anything where he's likely to commit another crime.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes, this is a very
important point, Justice Kennedy. At page 48 of the
joint appendix, the language of the relevant California
statute is set forth. The California provision is
section 1524(a)(3) of the California Penal Code, and it
authorizes a search for and seizure of items where
they're possessed by a person with the intent to use
them as a means of committing a public offense. And
that's the provision that was invoked this very warrant.
And these -- and that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish your
sentence.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Just the one sentence.
That provision is by no means an outlier. It's in
Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 41(c)(3), and it's in
the Model Penal Code of Pre-Arraignment Procedure at
section 210.3, subsection (1)(c).
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Wolfson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL R.Q. WOLFSON
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. WOLFSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
In Malley v. Briggs, this Court ruled that
police officers do not have immunity for seeking a
search warrant when the warrant application is so
lacking in indicia of probable cause as to render
official belief in its existence unreasonable. That --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, Malley
involved a search warrant based solely on a wiretap in
which an unknown individual discussed drug use at a
party. That was all. It seems to me there's a lot more
information here.
MR. WOLFSON: Well, in -- Malley involved a
mistake as to who the person under suspicion was who was
mentioned in the -- in the wiretap. But the argument
was made in Malley that is exactly the argument that is
made here, which is that the police -- it -- one wants
to encourage the police to seek warrants from the
magistrates, and it would be -- and it would be -- it
would be undesirable if the police were not given
effectively absolute immunity when they seek a warrant
from a magistrate, except, of course, when they -- when
they lie, which is a separate question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Here you had a
police officer who assembled information he had,
truthful information, in the affidavit, submitted it to
his superiors, who were lawyers. Then it was submitted
to the magistrate, who was a judge. And what you have
to say, it seems to me, is that a reasonably competent
officer -- not objective good faith or anything like
that -- a reasonable -- reasonably competent officer
would say: You know, I know the lawyers in the office
said this was okay and I know the judge said it was
okay, but I know more than them; I know not only that
it's not okay, but it's so clearly not okay that I
shouldn't have qualified immunity.
That seems to me a pretty heavy burden to
put on -- put on the cop on the beat.
MR. WOLFSON: Mr. Chief Justice, I don't
think -- I don't think there is any question that in the
great majority of cases, officers who seek warrants from
magistrates will be immune. And the Court made clear in
Malley that it does happen that officers make mistakes,
good faith mistakes, as to whether a particular set of
facts amounts to probable cause, and in that context
when there is a good faith mistake, the officers will
have immunity.
But the Court also stressed that officers
must minimize the risk of Fourth Amendment violations by
exercising reasonable professional judgment in applying
for search warrants. And so, the Court ruled that an
officer will not be immune if a "reasonably well-trained
officer," which is the term the Court used, would not
have believed that the -- that the warrant affidavit
established probable cause. Now --
JUSTICE ALITO: Now, is it the case here
that a reasonably well-trained officer would not --
would understand that this warrant was defective in
authorizing a search for guns other than the shotgun in
question, when a provision of the California Penal Code
says that a search warrant may be issued to seize items
intended for use in committing a crime?
MR. WOLFSON: A reasonable -- that a
reasonable well-trained officer would not have sought
the search warrant. I don't think the California Penal
Code provision really adds anything to the rest of the
case, because it says that you may seek items that are
intended to be used in a crime, but you still have to
know -- you still have to have probable cause to believe
that there are such items. And so, the cases --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you have your client
who has discharged a sawed-off shotgun at his former
girlfriend in an attempt to kill her. And he -- he is
known to be a member of a violent gang, and he has
threatened to kill her. And so, a reasonable police
officer would -- could not think, well, he might have
some other guns, and he -- and there would be an intent
to use those in the commission of the crime that he has
threatened to commit.
MR. WOLFSON: Well, Mr. Bowen is not our
client, Justice Alito. Our clients are --
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm sorry. Excuse me. Mr.
Bowen --
MR. WOLFSON: No, but this is -- but this is
an important point. Our clients are the innocent family
that lives in the house where--
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that was just -- that
was a misstatement on my part.
MR. WOLFSON: No, I understand, but -- but I
want to --
JUSTICE ALITO: They could not think that
about Mr. Bowen?
MR. WOLFSON: But I want to make the point
that not only do the police have to have probable cause
to believe that there is such an item, they also have to
have probable cause to believe that it will be found in
the place that they propose to search. I mean, probable
cause --
JUSTICE ALITO: But the -- all right. It
was found that there was probable cause to believe that
he was living in these premises; isn't that correct?
And you're not contesting that.
MR. WOLFSON: Well, we are contesting that.
We're contesting their --
JUSTICE ALITO: You're not -- it's not an
issue before us.
MR. WOLFSON: It's not an issue here. The
Ninth Circuit decided the case on the assumption that
there was probable cause to believe that Mr. Bowen would
be found --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, on the assumption that
he was living in those premises, then what is wrong with
a reasonable officer thinking he's tried to kill her in
the past using one gun; he's a member of a gang; he is
very likely to have -- to possess or have access to
other guns; those other guns may be found in the home
where we believe he is living, and he is intending to
use them to carry out the threat that he has promised,
the threat that he has made?
MR. WOLFSON: There are several -- I think
there are several problems with that. The first problem
is the police don't have probable cause to believe that
he has another gun, and they don't -- and they certainly
don't have probable cause to believe that any other such
gun would be found at the Millenders' house, and I --
the Millenders' house where innocent people live.
Now -- and it's not just -- and it's not
just that no other such gun would be found at the
Millenders', and the Millenders themselves have right to
possess handguns for lawful purposes of self-defense.
So, it's possible -- of course, it is possible to
speculate about the things that the police might --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, just suppose they're
searching the suspect's own house.
MR. WOLFSON: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And there's -- he's used a
specific gun, a 12-gauge Remington shotgun, and they've
-- and they're looking for that. And these facts are
the same. He may continue to elude the police; he may
attack again. And they -- and they're searching the
house, his own house. They see the one gun. They see a
second gun. They cannot take the gun, the second gun?
MR. WOLFSON: No, I would not -- I would not
say that, Justice Kennedy, because I think that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: On what basis do you say
they can take the second gun?
MR. WOLFSON: Because if the police are in a
place where -- lawfully in a place pursuant to a
properly, narrowly drawn warrant, and they -- and they
see something in plain view, under this Court's plain
view doctrine as articulated in Horton v. California,
and there is probable cause to see something there to
associate with criminal activity, yes, the police can --
can seize that.
But it -- but it's -- there's a big
difference between thinking about what the police can do
if they enter someplace lawfully and how they can
react --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but what's the
difference between what you just said and the situation
here? You say, if he sees the gun next to the bed, for
example, or in the closet, and he's in the house looking
for the sawed-off shotgun, he could seize it. He can't
unless he has probable cause to think it might be used
for a crime.
MR. WOLFSON: If --
JUSTICE BREYER: And so, how did that
change? How did that change suddenly because he
happened to see in the house something in the closet,
and nothing else changed? Why now suddenly can he take
it?
MR. WOLFSON: I think the assumption, as I
understood, behind Justice Kennedy's question was, if
the police see something -- happen to see something in
the house that is probable cause of a crime --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but your argument is
there was no probable cause for thinking that the guns
in the house, if there were other guns, would be used
for a crime. Now, your opponent, your brother there,
said when I suggested that: Oh, no, that's wrong; there
is probable cause to think that any guns in the house
would be used for a crime. He hasn't killed the girl
yet, and one gun's as good as another. And he might
well take one of those other guns and kill her. So,
there's probable cause to believe that the guns that are
in the house, or at least one could reasonably think so,
would be used for a crime. That was his response.
Then, as to whether they're likely to be in
the house, well, we know this: We know he has a
sawed-off shotgun, and we know he is a member of a gang,
which is defined as a group of people engaged in
definable criminal activity, creating an atmosphere of
fear and intimidation.
So, well, people like that have guns. And
when -- where they live, there may well be other guns.
So, it is reasonable for me to think there are other
guns in the house and reasonable for me to thin k that
other guns in the house would be used for killing this
girl if he can get to her. Okay, that's the argument.
Now, what's the response?
MR. WOLFSON: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: And you don't have to --
you have to show more than that there's no probable
cause. You have to show it wasn't reasonable to think
that there was probable cause.
MR. WOLFSON: Because the police did not
have probable cause to believe there was any other gun,
and they certainly --
JUSTICE BREYER: He's a member of a gang
which often has guns, and this expert knows that members
of gangs have guns. And the definition of "gang"
suggests they're likely to have guns, whether it's
illegal to have them or not illegal.
MR. WOLFSON: But it --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's how he knows that.
That's how he knows.
MR. WOLFSON: But it doesn't -- excuse me.
It doesn't necessarily follow that there is probable
cause to believe that he has an arsenal of weapons with
him at an innocent third-party's house.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the warrant authorized
the search for and seizure of all guns, not just the
guns belonging to Bowen. And in --
MR. WOLFSON: That is correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- in fact, they seized
some of the Millenders' guns, didn't they?
MR. WOLFSON: That is correct. The
police --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And why is it -- if there's
probable cause to believe that he has other guns, is
there also probable cause to believe that any gun found
in the house will belong to him? I think not.
MR. WOLFSON: I would say not, Your Honor,
but I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We've been
talking -- we've been talking about this for some time
as if we're reviewing the adequacy of the warrant.
We're not. We're reviewing the reasonableness of these
officers' determination that there was probable cause.
Do you think it is at all pertinent in
addressing that question that the officers submitted the
affidavit to support the warrant to Deputy District
Attorney Jane Wilson, who reviewed it and signed off on
it?
MR. WOLFSON: I -- I think it can't be
dispositive, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I didn't ask if it's
dispositive. Is it relevant in any way?
MR. WOLFSON: It could be -- it could be
relevant, but I would say it's -- it doesn't -- it
doesn't make the case in this case, for a few reasons.
First of all, generally speaking, of course, if you
can't rely on the magistrate as a -- you know, as a
blanket rule that you're not immune, it's hard to
understand why the fact that the deputy district
attorney signed off on it would have essentially the
same effect that the Court rejected in Malley, when it
said, you know, there will be a limited set of
circumstances where even if -- even if a magistrate
issues a warrant, the officer will be liable.
So, I don't think that -- I mean, the
district attorney and the -- and the superior are on the
same crime-fighting team as the -- as the -- as
Detective Messerschmidt in this case.
Also, we really -- we have no information
about what transpired in these conversations with the
deputy district attorney. We don't know whether the
D.A. said to Detective Messerschmidt: Oh, you know,
you're good; this is totally fine. Or whether she said:
You know, you're pushing the envelope here, but we might
just find a magistrate who will go along with it, so --
you know, so, see what you can get.
And the other point is, of course, relying
on your superiors and on the D.A. is a double-edged
sword in many cases, because that -- in fact, that can
establish or go a long way towards establishing Monell
liability, if you establish that there's a pattern of
superiors and of deputy district attorneys --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you want -- do
you want to encourage officers, when they're applying
for search warrants, to have them reviewed by the deputy
district attorney or not?
MR. WOLFSON: Certainly, we want them to --
to encourage that, Mr. Chief Justice. But the point is,
in Malley, this Court made clear that, ultimately, a
reasonably -- a reasonably well-trained officer must
make a judgment himself as to whether the course of
conduct that he proposes to undertake could reasonably
be thought to be within the law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ultimately, it's the
officer who goes into the Millenders' house, seizes
their arms, rifles through their drawers. It's -- it's
the officer that does that?
MR. WOLFSON: Well, the officers who are the
Petitioners in this case are the officers who actually
applied for the search warrant and who actually drafted
the search warrant for the magistrate to -- to sign.
Now, they then were present at the search. I think
there is a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I didn't understand
that.
MR. WOLFSON: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They -- they did not
execute the warrant?
MR. WOLFSON: They were -- they were -- they
were part of the executing team, yes. They were --
there were --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did they enter the
residence?
MR. WOLFSON: They entered the residence,
yes. There were other officers who I think it would be
fair to say kind of more -- undertook the more concrete
search of the -- you know, of the house from top to
bottom. I think there is a different question about
when a line officer relies on his lead officer's
instructions. And that was actually discussed by the
Ninth Circuit in -- in the Groh case, which later came
up to -- came up to this Court.
But I think the -- the standard that the
Court set forth in Malley, the objective reasonableness
standard, is really -- it's consistent with this Court's
qualified immunity case law --
JUSTICE BREYER: If that is the -- we're
using a purely objective standard, another fact that I
just want your reaction on is where he says, "I told you
never to call the cops on me." Now, he has tried to
throw her out of the window or something. He -- he's
shot at her. He's trying to kill her in five different
ways, and he's shouting: I'm going to kill you and I
told you never to call the cops on me.
When I first read that I thought, well,
maybe he has some -- maybe this is explained in part not
just domestic, but he has something to hide. He's
afraid she's going to tell the police something. Now --
now, could a person reasonably read those words and
think he has something to hide here? His -- and there's
something going on, and it's not just domestic?
Where does that lead us if we --
MR. WOLFSON: I don't --
JUSTICE BREYER: Can we read it that way?
And if we do read it that way, where does that lead you?
MR. WOLFSON: Well, the Petitioners have
never suggested that reading before. And, indeed, the
Petitioners have -- indeed, Detective Messerschmidt
testified at his deposition: No, I didn't have any
reason to believe that the crime was gang-related.
I mean, one of the curious things about
the -- the argument that the Petitioners are now making,
which is that you can go outside the warrant and import
into it the fact that he was a felon -- one of the
curious things about that is that the -- is that the
officers told the magistrate this is a violent crime, no
question; he is a gang member -- not in support of
probable cause, but in support of night service. They
told the magistrate that they had reviewed all the
various government databases, specifically including
police databases, but did not tell the magistrate that
he had any criminal record at all.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Wolfson --
MR. WOLFSON: But that's so --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Wolfson, if --
suppose they had had a warrant to search just for the
sawed-off shotgun. You conceded that when they go into
the house and they're looking all over, they could look
in cabinets and drawers for the -- to find pieces of the
shotgun. They come across other guns, they can at least
secure -- take those guns for their own safety. There
are other people in the house, and somebody might use
them.
So, what's -- what's the difference in the
scope of the search if they have a warrant just to look
for the sawed-off shotgun or if they have a warrant that
covers any guns?
MR. WOLFSON: Well, a couple of responses.
First of all, I think this Court's decisions in Groh and
other courts made clear that when you're evaluating
whether -- whether the Respondents were harmed by this
violation of their constitutional rights, you have to
look at the warrant that was actually applied for and
executed, not -- you don't -- you don't compare it to a
hypothetical warrant that the police might have gotten
if they had applied for a properly limited warrant.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To cite Groh -- in
Groh, the warrant did not identify the items to be
seized at all.
MR. WOLFSON: That is correct. But the
argument was made in Groh -- was, well, there really was
no harm because surely the officers had probable cause,
and if they had done their work right, that there was I
think no question that they would have gotten a warrant,
and the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your answer -- and,
again, it seems to me we keep separating these two
inquiries. It's not whether the warrant showed adequate
probable cause; it's whether or not the officers were
reasonable in believing that it did.
MR. WOLFSON: I understand --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And to cite Groh,
a -- no reasonable officer could think that a warrant
that doesn't say anything at all about what's to be
seized complied with the Fourth Amendment.
MR. WOLFSON: But the argument was made in
Groh that essentially this was sort of no harm, no foul,
because surely a reasonable police officer could have
obtained a valid warrant. And I was -- I was sort of
analogizing that to the question that Justice Ginsburg
made. I don't think that really is a question of
qualified immunity at all. I think that may be a
question of damages as to whether you could think, oh,
well, perhaps the police might have gotten a valid
warrant and so forth. But -- so, I think, sure, it's
possible to imagine that the police could have gotten a
valid, narrow warrant limited to -- limited to search
for the sawed-off shotgun, and -- and certainly not the
gang-related activity, but they didn't. And one has
to -- one has to measure the harm that the -- that the
Millenders suffered by execution of this --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what happens --
MR. WOLFSON: -- invalid warrant.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- below on that
question? Following up on --
MR. WOLFSON: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the same question
that Justice Kagan asked your brethren, which is how
about we find that it was reasonable to ask for the guns
but not for the gang-related materials? What does that
do to your claim, and do you disagree with the manner in
which he described what the inquiry would be below or
before us now?
MR. WOLFSON: Right. We do disagree. We
would submit that the -- that it's still -- it's still
invalid. But this is an issue that the courts of
appeals have wrestled with under what is called the
severance doctrine, which mostly is applied in
exclusionary rule cases, not in qualified immunity
cases.
This Court has actually never explicitly
endorsed the severance doctrine, and that is the
question -- suppose you have a warrant that is sort of
half valid and half valid or maybe half arguably valid
but half totally -- you know, totally invalid. What do
you do then? And the -- I think at a minimum the record
would not permit this Court to -- to resolve that
because we don't know from the record before us sort of
what part of the search was conducted under what part of
the -- of the warrant. But --
JUSTICE ALITO: What's to the gang
paraphernalia? Why couldn't an officer reasonably
believe that there was a probable cause to seize that --
to search for and seize that, because it would link Mr.
Bowen with this residence where they hoped to find the
shotgun? And you dispute the fact that he is -- that he
is associated with that residence.
MR. WOLFSON: Right. So, Justice Alito,
there certainly are circumstances in which it is
legitimate to seek for information that links a
particular person to a particular location for purposes
of establishing criminal liability. The -- you know,
there are many cases, for example, where the police come
across a meth lab or something like that. And, of
course, in that situation the police have a legitimate
reason to -- to want to know who is present, whose
fingerprints are all over the place, because that would
tend to establish that the person is -- is in unlawful
possession of methamphetamine.
JUSTICE ALITO: And why couldn't a
reasonable officer think that that would be the case
here?
MR. WOLFSON: For -- for a few reasons.
First of all, the 120th Street address, the Millenders'
house, is totally irrelevant to the actual crime under
investigation, which took -- someplace else. I mean,
it's just a happenstance that the -- that the police are
searching -- searching this place. It's not the place.
This is not a tavern or a still or --
JUSTICE ALITO: No, well, if they have
probable cause to believe that the sawed-off shotgun is
there -- let's suppose they find the sawed-off shotgun.
Then there's going to be an issue at trial: Was it his
sawed-off shotgun? And anything that links him to that
residence is valuable evidence.
MR. WOLFSON: But the gang-related indicia
part of the warrant is, first of all, much, much broader
than that; and, secondly, the Petitioners have never
argued until this Court that that was the purpose of the
gang-related indicia part of the warrant. I mean, the
Petitioners argued that the gang-related indicia part of
the warrant is intended to establish his -- his gang
membership. And -- because, for example, there might be
a -- an increase in penalty if something is a
gang-related crime. Even while --
JUSTICE ALITO: I thought this was a test of
what they could -- what a reasonable officer could have
believed, not what they in particular believed.
MR. WOLFSON: Well, that's correct, but I
think, you know, that does not mean that one can engage
essentially in a completely post-hoc rationalization of
what the objective search by the -- to be accomplished
by the warrant is. I mean, the warrant application
itself says this is a spousal assault that the police
are investigating. There's no suggestion that it's a
gang-related crime in any way.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Wolfson, it seems that
many of the arguments on both sides are very
fact-dependent in nature, that you're asking what
inferences can be drawn reasonably from certain facts,
from a particularly violent incident, from the use of a
sawed-off shotgun, from the fact that this was not his
home, from the fact that he was a gang member.
And yet, the cases that you cite to us as
suggesting what a reasonable police officer should know
really are not cases that involve these facts at all.
They're cases that state very broad general propositions
about Fourth Amendment law. So, how can you get from
those cases to what you're saying a particular police
officer in a particular set of circumstances ought to
know?
MR. WOLFSON: Well, of course, this Court
has never required that, for qualified immunity
purposes, that the case -- there be another case exactly
on point. And --
JUSTICE KAGAN: No. But there seems to be a
very large gap between what this police officer has to
think about and the cases that you cite.
MR. WOLFSON: Respectfully, Justice Kagan, I
don't think I agree, and I think that it's -- it's
useful to look at two related but somewhat different
lines of cases, particularly in the Ninth Circuit but,
actually, you know, all across the board in the courts
of appeals.
The first line of cases says if the police
have reason or have probable cause to look for a
specific object or specific -- even a specific kind of
object, that doesn't give them probable cause to look
for the whole generic class of objects that are somewhat
similar.
The leading case on this in the Ninth
Circuit is the Spilotro decision, but there are many
cases coming both before and after that stand for that
proposition. The -- the principle has been applied in
many contexts. For example, if you think that somebody
is committing fraud for years 1998 and 1999 and there
are billing records, you can't -- you don't have
probable cause to look for fraud, you know, for the
entire records, billing records from 1950 to the
present. If you think that -- if you see somebody run
over somebody else in a green Nissan Sentra, you don't
have probable cause to search for all vehicles including
a red Ford -- a red Ford Explorer.
This is really that principle in the context
of firearms. And it -- and Detective Messerschmidt had
the information that the case involved a black sawed-off
shotgun with a pistol grip. Now, there certainly are
cases --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, to come back to a
question that was asked before --
MR. WOLFSON: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- suppose they were
issuing -- suppose the warrant just sought this --
the -- that particular weapon. They execute it, and
they come to a room in this house, and it's got Mr.
Bowen's name on it, and inside there's a gun cabinet,
and there are -- there are a whole -- there's a whole
array of guns, legal -- let's say he legally possesses
them. There's a -- there's a -- there are assault
rifles. There are pistols. And it's known that he's
threatened to kill his girlfriend. You say -- would the
police be able to seize those?
MR. WOLFSON: Yes, I think there are many
things the police can do. First of all, an assault
rifle is illegal. So, that per se is contraband --
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. All sorts of
legal weapons --
MR. WOLFSON: Right. Okay. And --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- that could be used.
Could they -- could they seize those?
MR. WOLFSON: Well, the police -- if -- and
so, one question is, do the police know that Mr. Bowen
is a felon? And here I think that is relevant, because
they are dealing with what not what is in the affidavit
but to on-the-spot judgments. So, if the police --
JUSTICE ALITO: Let's --
MR. WOLFSON: So -- okay.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- I'm hypothesizing --
MR. WOLFSON: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- he has a license for all
of these.
MR. WOLFSON: Right. So, I think there
are --
JUSTICE ALITO: He's not a felon.
MR. WOLFSON: So, I think if the police have
probable cause, in light of the circumstances that they
actually encounter at the house, that the guns --
JUSTICE ALITO: The circumstances are
exactly the circumstances here --
MR. WOLFSON: That the --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- except for the two things
that I changed. It's his room, and it's his gun
cabinet.
MR. WOLFSON: The police may be able to
secure all of those weapons, certainly so that they pose
no danger to anybody else. And if Mr. Bowen is arrested
and then, if -- if he is to be released on bail or on
pretrial release, it's a very common condition that he
not have access to any weapons. The police -- it may be
required that he deposit those weapons with somebody
else who, you know, is a proper custodian --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let's say they don't
find him. He's still at large. They have to leave the
weapons there.
MR. WOLFSON: I don't think they --
necessarily have to leave the weapons there.
JUSTICE ALITO: When they leave. Why? On
what ground could they seize them?
MR. WOLFSON: If there is no -- well, if
he's not -- if he's not there, then it's not clear to me
that he has a Fourth Amendment standing to challenge
anything.
JUSTICE ALITO: It's his room. It's his
room.
MR. WOLFSON: It's his room. But if he's --
I mean, but if he's --- if they really believe that the
police -- that he is there, that it is his house, there
is no reason to believe that his possession of any of
these weapons is illegal, there are -- the police can do
things to secure them.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm putting in my notes
that you're not answering the hypothetical.
MR. WOLFSON: Right.
(Laughter.)
MR. WOLFSON: I think there -- I'm not sure.
I don't think the police can say these weapons are just
ours, we're going to take them, we can seize them
without -- without probable -- without more probable
cause.
JUSTICE ALITO: They can't say, and we're
going to take them under -- we're going to take them so
that he can't use those to kill his girlfriend which is
what he has threatened to do? They just have to leave
them there --
MR. WOLFSON: No --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- and if he happens to come
back and -- and get those weapons, and he kills her,
well, that's just too bad?
MR. WOLFSON: But if the police -- the
police have -- if the police have probable cause to
believe that he -- on the spot that he will use that
weapons, yes, they can seize them under that provision
of the California Penal Code, but that does not mean
they have probable cause when they apply for the -- the
warrant, to think that those weapons either will
exist --
JUSTICE ALITO: You really -- you really are
not answering my question.
MR. WOLFSON: I --
JUSTICE ALITO: My question is: Everything
is exactly the same except that it's his room and he's
not a felon and he possesses them legally and there they
are, and they see them.
MR. WOLFSON: I think --
JUSTICE ALITO: And your answer is they can
take them. In which case, my question is, why wouldn't
they have probable cause to search for those in the
first place? Or they can't take them, in which case I
say, well, what about the possibility that he will come
back, get those weapons, and carry out his threat using
those weapons?
MR. WOLFSON: They can -- they may be able
to take them, but that does not mean that they knew that
they existed in the first place or that they would be at
the Millenders' house. That's -- that I think is the
fundamental difference.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What happened here when
they -- when they -- they did seize weapons that
belonged to the plaintiff, Mrs. Millender. They -- they
took them because they thought they were the
defendant's? But -- not that -- they thought they were
Bowen's?
MR. WOLFSON: It's not clear, Justice
Ginsburg. They took them under the authority of the
warrant. They did not provide an explanation as to
specifically why they were -- why the gun was seized,
but the gun was seized. And this -- I think this really
the -- this point, that they went into the Millenders'
house, searched the house from top to bottom, and seized
the Millenders' -- Mrs. Millender's lawfully owned
weapon really shows that this case is in the heartland
of what the Fourth Amendment is concerned about. I
mean, this is exactly the kind of case that the Framers
were concerned about when they abolished the
general warrant. This is the sort of case --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, do you --
do you contend that anything in the affidavit was false?
MR. WOLFSON: Yes. False or at least --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What --
MR. WOLFSON: -- or at least misleading.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What was that?
MR. WOLFSON: I think the -- the -- the
proposition that Bowen, quote, unquote, "resided" at the
120th Street address and that that -- and that that
conclusion was drawn from, among other things, Detective
Messerschmidt's search of government databases was
material misleading, because he didn't reside there. He
may have been staying -- hiding out there, and the
search of the government databases which are actually --
the results are actually reprinted --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where did the --
MR. WOLFSON: Sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- may have been --
may have staying there?
MR. WOLFSON: That is what Shelly Kelly told
Detective Messerschmidt, which is, if I am not
mistaking --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you say it was
materially false that they said he resides there, and
what he knew is that he may have been staying there?
MR. WOLFSON: He may have been hiding out
there. When -- especially when you combine that with
all the other information that Detective Messerschmidt
actually obtained from the printouts of the databases
which are in the JA, which in fact say that he hadn't
been at the 120th Street address for several months and
that his most recent address was 97th Street, where he
lived with -- where he stayed with, at least sometimes,
Shelly Kelly and gave it out as his address. So,
that -- that is in the respects why we think that this
is materially misleading.
Of course, we were not allowed to appeal
that determination, so that really only half of the case
in that respect was before the court of appeals and is
before this Court.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Coates, you have 2 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY R. COATES
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. COATES: With respect to the -- the
hypothetical that Justice Alito postulated in terms of
finding other weapons there, and Respondents' counsel to
say, well, we might go on the plain view doctrine, I
think these are circumstances in which we note that you
want to encourage officers, when they can, not to -- not
rely on exceptions to the warrant requirement. And
here, if anything, the officers in an abundance of
caution attempted to get a warrant, contemplating those
precise circumstances. I don't think they should incur
liability for -- for going to that extra step and that
extra precaution. And, again, a step back from whether
there's actually probable cause, but whether a
reasonable officer could even believe that might be the
case for purposes of sending it to a magistrate.
And I think, under those circumstances, you
want to encourage officers to seek a magistrate's
determination and not try and rely on on-the-scene
exceptions to the warrant requirement to try and justify
seizing weapons under those circumstances.
With respect to Justice Scalia's concern
about the probable cause to seize all guns as opposed to
guns belonging to Bowen -- and I think the notion is
that Bowen, being a resident and that being established
for purposes of this contention at this point, still
down at district court, but it was assumed for purposes
of the Ninth Circuit that he was a resident, that as a
resident, that he would have access to that firearm.
And I think that this was bolstered by the
fact -- again, his status as a gang member. We cite the
Chicago Housing Authority v. Rose case, which talks
about the manner in which gang members often store and
use weapons at family members' homes. I mean, it's an
unfortunate part of the -- of the gang culture. So,
it's not unreasonable for an officer to think there
might be probable cause at the very least to seize any
weapon found there, even if ultimately facts developed
that it is in fact not Bowen's weapon.
And this also goes to the indicia of gang
membership and why it's reasonable even to ask, because
that may be one of the means by which we could tie a
particular weapon to Bowen depending upon what's found
during the search.
This is a very high standard as established
by this Court, which is essentially plainly incompetent
or knowingly violating the law. And this is an officer
that has not hidden the ball with respect to what
transpired between Bowen and Kelly. He submitted it to
his superiors to look at; he submitted it to an
attorney. And while that's not dispositive, I think
those are objective facts that a reasonable officer
could say, I've done this, this, and this; there's no
reason for me to believe that I'm violating the law in
sending it to a magistrate.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:09 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
55:23 41:15 55:3 apologize 29:24 ascertainable authorization
59:16 appeal 61:1 28:17 28:20
63:18 agree 6:11,11 APPEARAN... 27:12,13 48:22 40:19
albums 22:19 23:22 31:4 13:14 15:3 34:7
24:8 34:4,19 51:22 aspect 22:5
applied 28:8 aspects 21:23 B
56:3 35:22 36:3,9 29:4,5,6,20,21 22:13 back 12:12
49:20 50:2,14 29:23,24 43:19 assault 8:1,13 15:19,19,25
54:3,6,20,23 53:13 9:11 11:16,17 57:16 58:14
14:2 56:17 57:9,15 applying 24:4 assaults 30:12 30:1
58:1,4,9 61:11 33:23 43:3 assembled 32:23 bad 16:7 27:16
22:15 25:2 25:24 26:12,18 balance 20:20
20:3,4 61:1 24:20 associate 38:1 bare-bone 7:12
39:15 Amendment 7:1 arguably 49:13 associated 8:25 bare-bones 3:22
7:19 14:14 argued 20:8 23:20 50:1 4:8 7:7
22:5 24:11 arguing 5:24 assumed 62:10 basis 37:18
60:20,21 20:24 38:24 39:22 atomic 15:15 31:23 61:9
amounts 33:18 45:21 47:10,25 attack 17:12,16 belief 28:2 32:5
28:21 arises 4:5 attempted 24:22 14:25 15:1,5
5:20 answering 11:4 articulated Augusta 1:7 49:22 50:25
57:20 build 10:8 21:13 21:2 26:10 11:2,10,16,18
63:12 burden 33:10 category 20:8 29:14,18,22 12:1,7,11,14
51:17,17 C 4:13 12:25 32:6,22 33:12 14:4,8,13 15:8
cabinets 46:13 25:24 26:13,18 59:20 60:5,7 18:10,12,21
California 1:17 32:4 33:18 63:14 19:23 20:5
34:13 37:24 36:7,20,22 44:15 53:1,11 31:17 34:8,14
4:20,23 5:19 caused 28:10 61:25 62:4 comes 6:8
36:7 13:20 16:3,21 certainly 4:24 62:14 35:1
49:24 20:15 21:17 6:7 10:2 23:5 cited 24:2 commit 15:11
59:22 24:1 26:15,17 24:14 27:2 civil 3:13 17:8 30:20
63:1,7 28:20 29:6 36:21 40:6 claim 5:19 48:25 31:1 35:2
62:22 36:6 41:24,24 50:3 54:1 clear 8:19 24:23 committing 31:9
13:11,14 53:25 58:10,12 38:16,16 clearly 33:8 competent 33:2
14:7,9 59:10,12,14 changed 38:18 client 34:19 35:4 33:4
15:13 61:2,24 62:15 55:21 clients 35:4,8 complete 10:23
38:7,15 63:16,17 characteristic close 12:25 completely
39:25 cases 3:20 23:24 18:2 closer 18:22 51:20
44:21 33:14 34:18 check 16:23 closet 38:10,17 complied 47:24
42:23 49:8,9 checked 27:18 Coates 1:17 2:3 conceded 46:11
16:15 couple 46:22 criminal 3:14 denying 3:13 discusses 23:15
37:4 41:25 39:15 46:6 depend 22:8 dispositive 6:10
47:1 61:1 curiae 1:21 2:8 11:10 district 20:9
3:10,12,17 4:2 curious 45:20,24 depicting 20:4 42:3,10,15
23:20,21 24:5 CURT 1:3 deputy 1:19 documents
6:8 14:17 26:4,16 27:3 43:1,4 doing 15:15
26:1,4,6 27:21 28:3,4 D described 49:1 domestic 8:1,13
27:4 28:12,14 31:25 D 3:2 despite 28:19 8:22 9:11 45:6
33:18 32:1 33:15,21 damages 48:7 detail 16:13 45:10
33:24 34:1 danger 55:25 detailed 4:9 double-edged
49:16 51:8 dealing 55:3 53:24 59:24 drafted 43:19
62:10 63:4 decals 18:8 determination 46:13
46:24 49:5 December 1:11 21:7 41:12 52:4 59:24
8:18 37:23 decision 4:6 determined 3:16 D.C 1:10,20,23
covers 46:21 decisions 46:23 14:13 E
11:16 crime 7:15,22 defendant's 58:20 either 26:20
17:2,21 7:25 8:11 9:10 12:10 58:25 different 21:13 57:24
24:17 9:17 11:6,11 defense 5:25 44:12 45:1 elude 37:12
35:24 15:11 17:8 deference 3:19 52:25 encounter 55:16
47:9 30:20 31:1 deficient 7:6 difficulty 6:18 encourage 32:16
61:15 61:16 62:3 facts 14:6 30:17 Finish 31:12 47:24 52:12
exclusion 4:22 33:18 37:11 firearm 23:7 56:15 59:11
51:19 49:8 factual 4:9 5:14 23:2 53:24 front 6:22
53:18 15:24 18:12 fair 16:16 44:10 23:9 25:12 future 17:16
11:7 execute 44:2 faith 4:25 5:3,5 45:4 46:23 G
executing 27:17 16:9 25:8 26:2 five 45:1 8:13,22 9:6,18
48:1 execution 48:15 26:22 27:16 follow 40:16 10:15,17,18
63:4 EXECUTOR 28:16,16 33:3 Following 48:19 11:3,6,9,22,23
50:12 exercising 33:23 false 59:16,17 footnote 7:8 16:15 17:7,15
exist 57:25 60:13 Ford 53:22,22 17:19,20,25,25
63:3 existence 24:25 familiarity former 34:20 19:2,3,7,7 20:6
50:6 expand 21:20 family 35:8 28:24 22:9,18 30:12
explained 45:5 favored 21:3 13:9 22:23 51:11 52:7
10:6,8,25 59:4 feature 4:15 48:9 gangland 7:25
19:16 explicitly 49:10 Federal 31:16 forward 27:7 gangs 9:1 11:3
20:2,4 Explorer 53:22 felon 45:23 55:2 foster 12:11 13:10 19:12,13
23:8,8 expressed 16:5 55:13 58:6 foul 48:1 40:9
extent 12:15 find 9:15 10:16 found 9:24,25 gang-related
55:18 face 5:23 46:13 48:23 36:8,14,23 23:15 45:19
59:12 fact 4:15 5:19 49:24 51:1 37:1 41:4 48:13,24 51:5
38:10 40:23 42:3,23 finding 18:7 Founding 7:19 gap 52:21
51:12 44:22 45:23 19:19 61:12 Fourth 7:1,19 Gates 8:19
49:25 52:6,7 fine 42:17 14:14 15:7 general 1:20
59:14 60:3 58:21 39:4,9,12,20 important 31:3
great 3:19 33:14 57:15 41:5 43:14 incident 52:5
17:9 Groh 44:15 hard 42:2 55:16 56:21 46:4 53:21
9:5,16 47:10,21 48:1 Harlow 7:9 Housing 62:15 25:24
11:5 gross 25:24 harm 47:11 48:1 hypothesis incompetent 4:3
27:25 grossly 25:16,22 48:14 21:22 5:13 16:12
48:4 ground 56:12 harmed 46:25 hypothesized 25:16,23 26:23
59:3 group 39:14 head 14:12 22:14 26:24 63:4
54:15 gun 10:11,12 heartland 59:10 hypothetical increases 23:11
11:11,12 36:12 heavy 33:10 47:4 57:1 incur 61:19
10:24 40:5 41:4 helping 11:24 identification indications 9:12
14:17 54:10 55:21 hidden 63:6 9:24 indicia 3:25 4:25
42:19,24 59:5,6 hide 9:3 45:6,9 identify 47:7 7:18 17:25
46:11 guns 9:19 10:25 hiding 60:2,15 identifying 18:2 18:18 19:7
11:9 13:1,3,17 high 3:12 5:12 identity 23:17 20:6,17 22:9
43:14 21:11,16 22:10 highly 4:8 12:2 13:19 32:4 51:5,9,10
22:20 34:7,25 hold 28:5,6 28:19 40:11,11 62:23
16:20 39:1,4,7,8,17 30:4 36:14 illegally 11:23 30:10 32:8
45:2,7 39:18,20,21 52:7 Illinois 8:19 individually
51:2 40:8,9,10,20 homes 62:17 illogical 16:14 19:8
40:21,24 41:3 Honor 6:12 9:22 illustrates 25:25 inferences 52:4
46:14,15,21 18:12,21 28:4 imagine 48:10 information
7:4 14:17 55:16 62:6,7 Honor's 21:22 33:25 42:2 6:20,22 8:15
15:6,19 gun's 39:6 hook 6:21 immunity 3:13 9:25 11:24
16:3,5,9 guy 15:21 18:9 hope 19:19 4:11 6:8 7:2 32:10,23,24
25:6,8 hoped 49:24 8:19 14:16 42:13 50:4
H Horton 37:24 21:15 22:7 53:25 60:17
27:19 half 49:13,13,13 house 10:22 25:2 26:3,7,9 initial 3:18
33:3,17 49:14 61:2 12:5,6,7,10,19 28:9 32:2,19 innocent 35:8
39:6 handgun 15:23 13:1 15:1,2,3 33:9,20 44:20 36:24 40:18
handguns 15:1,3 15:14,15 18:25 48:6 49:8 inquiries 47:17
happen 21:17 36:23,24 37:7 implicate 22:3 25:1 28:16
59:25 happened 38:17 38:17,23 39:1 45:22 inside 54:10
33:1,6 44:6,21 45:13 58:17 60:14 leave 56:7,10,11
51:11 judgment 33:23 47:21 48:4,16 15:22 17:18 left 8:4
34:25 jurisprudence 54:3,6,20,23 42:1,6,15,16 legitimate 50:4
7:11,23 8:10 58:21 59:2,15 53:17 55:1 5:21,22 7:8
49:5,14 10:3,10,19 60:7,12 61:6 knowingly 4:4 28:8,14,15
51:24 11:21 12:4,5,9 63:14 63:5 9:18 16:25
50:20 13:11,14,24 30:11 34:22 54:12 55:5
16:9,18,19,20 Kagan 12:14 40:13,14 50:6 61:20
53:25 18:4,7,11,16 27:24 28:22 L license 10:24
19:18,21 20:1 52:23 lacking 3:24 lie 32:21
18:15 22:8,17,24 47:16 32:4 55:15
23:25 24:3,8 Kelly 60:9,23 language 22:22 limited 19:10
22:7,24 26:10,19 27:5 Kennedy 30:1,8 large 23:18 48:11,11
49:5 27:14,24,25 30:19,23 31:3 52:21 56:7 line 44:13 53:4
28:22 29:8,12 37:6,9,17,18 Laughter 57:3 lines 53:1
34:9,15 34:4,19 35:4,5 39:7 45:1,2 lawful 37:3 lived 60:22
47:7 35:10,14,22 54:15 57:11 lawfully 37:21 lives 35:9
37:6,9 killed 39:5 38:5 59:9 living 12:19
22:9 48:25 62:16 22:10 30:14 objectively
18:19 mentioned 25:13 27:21
26:20 material 9:7 32:13 N 28:17
47:2 60:1 Messerschmidt N 2:1,1 3:2 objects 53:8
53:5,7 materially 60:13 1:3 3:5 42:12 name 54:10 obtained 48:3
63:8 60:25 42:16 45:17 narrow 21:6 60:18
22:17 matter 1:13 59:25 narrowed 24:20 office 33:5
37:11 63:18 meth 50:8 narrowly 37:22 officer 3:15,20
46:12 mean 6:11 7:21 methampheta... natural 27:9 3:23,25 4:3,7
27:1 Millenders 40:16 56:10 13:9 14:5,18
12:23 50:20 51:9,19 43:14 48:15 neither 14:11 24:13 25:5
17:4 51:22 56:20 50:18 58:19 neutral 21:5 26:17 27:6,10
21:5 57:22 58:17 59:7,9 never 20:13 27:11,15,22
25:15,19 59:12 62:17 Millender's 12:7 44:24 45:3,16 28:9,18 32:23
27:8 meaningful 12:8 59:9 49:10 51:7 33:3,4,25 34:1
33:1 21:21 minimize 33:22 52:17 34:5,12,24
means 8:8 31:9 minimum 49:15 new 4:15 36:11 42:8
45:25 31:15 62:25 minute 11:21 night 46:2 43:9,14,16
61:24 meant 29:20 minutes 61:7 Ninth 4:5 36:6 44:13 47:22
measure 48:14 mishmash 26:20 44:15 53:1,10 48:2 49:21
33:15 8:1,2,11,13 9:6 59:19 60:1,25 Nissan 53:20 52:9,14,21
4:1 21:7 18:5,9,19 misstatement 7:3 63:5,10
28:19 19:12 30:11 35:11 note 8:7 10:16 officers 4:16 8:3
34:22 36:12 mistake 32:12 20:8 23:18 20:15 25:19,20
62:14 33:17 notion 62:7 32:2 33:14,16
19:2,5 40:8 mix 26:24 Nuremberg 41:14 43:3,17
25:15 membership 8:6 Monday 1:11 45:25 47:11,18
27:21 8:12 11:3,9 Monell 42:24 O 61:15,17 62:1
32:1,6,11 16:15 17:20,25 moniker 10:1,15 O 2:1 3:2 officer's 10:20
33:16 18:8,19 19:7 19:8 object 53:6,7 11:14 14:12
43:8 20:6,18 21:12 monikers 10:18 objective 14:5 44:13
21:16 22:18 months 60:20 26:5 28:7,16 official 28:2
13:10 memberships murder 30:11 51:21 63:10 oh 7:21 13:5
42:16 13:16 2:15 3:8 20:25 36:20 37:5,12 presumably
48:7 part 7:19 9:16 43:18 45:15,17 37:20 38:1,4 24:10
29:22 45:5 49:18,18 61:9 41:1 45:7 46:5 pretrial 56:2
51:6,9,10 photograph 47:4 48:2,8,10 pretty 25:14
54:22 62:18 18:23 22:19 50:7,9,21 33:10
particular 18:13 photographic 51:23 52:9,13 prevent 17:16
52:13,14 54:8 10:4 20:2,4 55:1,4,14,23 Principal 1:19
25:12 pistol 10:17 pose 55:24 printouts 60:18
3:7 20:23 passed 7:19 54:1 possess 36:13 privacy 22:4
pattern 42:25 pistols 54:14 37:3 probability
31:17 34:8,13 50:22,22 58:12 possessing 10:25 21:8 24:11,25
18:25 36:24 61:13 58:13 33:18 34:3,17
23:4 permit 49:16 play 26:3 18:18 38:25 39:4,8
26:15 32:12 45:8 23:12 25:20 practice 21:3 53:17,21 55:15
50:5,12 27:4 31:3 35:8 precaution 57:7,7,19,23
personal 23:16 35:16 42:21 61:21 58:11 61:22
person's 15:14 59:7 62:9 precise 61:19 problem 5:4
23:9,11 perspective 27:6 6:21 7:14 8:3 23:18 22:5,25 23:20
pertinent 6:20 11:6 16:5,7 premises 18:13 36:19
petition 23:22 28:25 29:1,7 36:10 22:15
Petitioners 1:4 32:16,18,23 21:13 43:21 Procedure
13:10 52:18 61:24 reaction 44:23 recognized 6:9 50:1 51:4
pursuant 37:21 13:5 45:4,8,13 record 46:6 62:12
33:11,11 really 18:17 53:18,18 respect 23:12
44:19 47:10 regime 6:19 Respectfully
47:5 4:11 6:8 7:2 58:1,1 59:6,10 52:25 28:5 60:24
21:15 22:7 reason 10:21 relating 21:12 1:24 2:12 20:7
59:22 49:8 52:17 50:10 53:5 released 56:1 39:10,23
question 13:15 reasonable 3:25 relevant 12:17 responsibility
23:10 25:12 16:23 17:4 41:21,23 55:2 rest 34:14
29:5 30:2 33:23 34:11,12 42:1 61:16 retained 24:18
34:8 38:21 39:19,20 40:2 relying 42:21 16:24
questioning 26:5 28:7 repeatedly 6:9 54:14
31:5,10 19:1 41:11 44:18 reprinted 60:4 right 5:10 6:13
34:8,14 questions 21:13 reasonably request 7:17 8:3,23 14:2,21
21:19 24:16 28:18 28:10 16:7 17:1,20
17:22 raise 22:25 50:17 reside 60:1 55:11 57:2
23:10,12 rebuttal 2:13 resided 59:22 rights 47:1
26:6 51:20 recall 4:23 18:1 19:24 ROBERTS 3:4
12:5,9 27:5,14 29:8 seek 11:7 32:16 shot 45:1 54:20
20:21 29:12,15 40:19 32:19 33:14 shotgun 8:3,25 Sotomayor 5:18
40:23 41:2 34:15 50:4 9:15 10:1,2,4,5 6:2,5,13 7:11
32:6 43:13,23 44:1 62:1 10:14 12:2 7:23 10:19
41:8,20 Scalia's 62:5 seeking 32:2 17:10,13 34:7 11:4,13,17,21
44:6 47:6 scope 21:21 22:3 seen 4:23 23:19 34:20 37:10 12:4,22 18:24
59:15 23:9,11 46:19 sees 38:9 38:11 39:13 19:9,14,18,21
60:5 se 7:21 54:19 seize 17:16 30:5 46:11,14,20 30:17 48:16,18
61:6 search 4:10 7:17 34:9 38:2,11 48:12 49:25 48:21
8:14 9:7,20 49:22,23 54:16 50:25 51:1,3 sought 23:5
56:17,18 15:4,10,13,14 57:6,21 58:22 shouting 45:2 sounds 19:21
58:5 15:17 17:19 62:6,20 show 5:15 18:9 soup 16:7
31:16 24:11 28:19 seizes 43:14 47:17 specific 13:14
49:8 30:4,25 31:7 seizing 62:4 showing 23:3 37:10 53:6,6,6
43:4,19,20,21 37:3 sign 25:23 43:20 59:5
46:10,19 sending 61:24 signed 41:16 specify 17:11
12:2 searched 59:8 23:15 31:13,14 20:11 spot 57:20
34:20 searches 23:1,3 Sentra 53:20 situation 25:14 spousal 51:23
39:13 searching 25:1 separate 20:8 25:21 38:8 SRI 1:19 2:6
48:12 37:7,13 50:22 32:21 50:9 20:23
51:1,3 50:22 separately 20:13 solely 32:7 Srinivasan 1:19
53:25 second 22:14 20:15 Solicitor 1:19 2:6 20:22,23
20:14,15 23:15 37:15,15 47:16 53:14,19,20 22:12,21 24:1
37:19 serve 17:23 56:4 24:7,21 25:7
15:16 section 20:5 set 3:12 5:7,12 50:20 27:20,24 28:3
34:9,15 31:6,18 31:5 33:17 somewhat 16:21 28:23 29:3,11
51:23 secure 46:15 42:6 44:18 52:25 53:8 29:20,23 30:7
55:24 56:24 52:14 son 12:12 30:21 31:2,14
16:25 18:23 severance 49:7 16:19 35:5 standard 3:13
18:4 24:14 37:14,14 49:11 60:6 7:9 14:5 16:12
37:23,25 38:17 Shelly 60:9,23 sort 48:1,3 26:1,5 27:3
25:3,8 38:22,22 42:20 Sheppard 26:14 49:12,17 59:14 28:7 44:17,19
26:19 53:19 58:7 26:15 sorts 23:24 44:22 63:3
suggesting 52:9 37:15,19 38:18 16:2,13,14,24 throw 44:25
3:12 20:24 51:24 57:6,10,10 20:15 21:12,13 17:25 19:23
27:18 32:25 tavern 50:23 33:13,13 34:13 TIMOTHY
63:8 tell 7:11 18:24 36:18 37:17 61:8
60:20,21 41:15 46:1,2 26:2 61:11 47:13,22 48:5 14:18
49:12 51:1 14:16 16:3,4 52:22,24,24 training 14:22
supposed 12:16 27:15,17,20,25 55:2,11,14 42:14 63:7
49:4 14:16 26:6,14 Thank 20:21 63:9 trying 5:15 27:6
5:20 Supreme 1:1,14 31:24 61:5,6 36:11 38:4,25 two 6:14 21:10
41:14 sure 16:11 18:6 63:14 thinks 16:25 21:12 22:13,23
22:7 25:21 thin 39:20 third-party's 25:11,12 26:24
surely 47:11 things 12:16 thought 5:18 55:20
suspect 30:2 24:12 37:5 15:6 21:20 U
suspicion 32:12 55:20 56:24 30:24 43:12 43:13 62:21
19:1 view 37:23,24 warrants 30:3 Wilson 41:16 Y
35:12 61:13 32:16 33:14,24 window 44:25 years 53:15
43:23 viewed 20:9,10 43:4 wiretap 32:7,13
violating 4:4 Washington Wolfson 1:23 1
63:5,12 wasn't 11:14 31:24 32:11 10 18:25,25
47:1 water 27:3 35:3,7,12,16 11 20:12
violent 30:11 20:10,10 21:21 37:16,20 38:14 12-gauge 37:10
42:24 45:13,14 40:25 41:6,18 59:23 60:20
wait 11:21 14:7 ways 6:14 45:2 43:25 44:3,8 31:6
35:13,16 43:2 9:4,6,24 11:19 46:8,9,22 47:9 1983 26:7
3:11 20:24 62:1 59:10 62:21,22 50:2,17 51:5
28:2 7:17,18 8:14 16:17 18:14 55:23 56:9,13 210.3 31:18
62:19 9:13,20 10:24 30:6 40:17 56:19 57:2,4 23 7:8
34:10 21:4,24,24 58:14,15,22 60:6,9,15 3 2:4
36:16 22:2,6,13 24:5 61:12 62:4,17 wonderful 27:14 31 2:12
52:5 25:5 28:10 wear 18:8 words 14:24 344 28:6
62:17 31:10 32:3,3,7 well-trained 45:8 345 28:15
37:22 4
43:9 wouldn't 22:4,6
32:1 44:2 45:22 We'll 3:4 10:17 17:15,18 45-caliber 10:17
62:15 46:10,19,20 we're 8:20 13:7 18:4 17:14
47:17,22 48:3 24:12 36:2 writ 23:18 5
49:12,19 51:6 5 1:11
57:6,9 36:10 39:3 52 22:22
26:15
26:15,15
60:21
