IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
WILLIAM H. SORRELL, ATTORNEY :
GENERAL OF VERMONT, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 10-779
v. :
IMS HEALTH INC., ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 26, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
BRIDGET C. ASAY, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,
Montpelier, Vermont; on behalf of Petitioners.
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioners.
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
BRIDGET C. ASAY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as
amicus curiae, supporting Petitioners 22
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 32
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
BRIDGET C. ASAY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 64
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning -- this morning in Case
10-779, William Sorrell, Attorney General of Vermont, v.
IMS Health Incorporated.
Ms. Asay.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BRIDGET C. ASAY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MS. ASAY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Under State and Federal law, doctors write
prescriptions for their patients to allow them access to
drugs that the government deems too dangerous for
unrestricted sale. Vermont's law allow doctors to
decide whether this information that they're compelled
to provide to pharmacies may be used in marketing that
is directed at them.
Drug companies would certainly like to have
this information for marketing, but they have no First
Amendment right to demand it, just as they have no right
to demand access to the doctor's tax returns, his
patient files, or to their competitors' business
records.
Vermont's law does not regulate the content
of the marketing pitches and the advertising that drug
companies provide about their products or their
competitors' products. It regulates access to this
information that's created in a highly regulated regime
of prescription drugs and in the context of the
doctor-patient relationship.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The purpose -- the
purpose is to prevent sales representatives from
contacting particular physicians, right?
MS. ASAY: I disagree, Your Honor. The
purpose of the statute is to let doctors decide whether
sales representatives will have access to this inside
information about what they have been prescribing to
their patients. And what -- what the record shows is
that what drug companies do is track and monitor doctors
very closely to watch when they switch drugs, to watch
the trends by which they -- doctors prescribe, by
gender, by age. And all that information is used to
target and to direct the marketing projects -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But they could use it for
other purposes, right?
MS. ASAY: The pharmaceutical manufacturers?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MS. ASAY: Under this statute they may use
it for some limited purposes for clinical trials.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So what the Chief Justice
suggested is right, that the purpose is to stop them
from using it in order to market their drugs?
MS. ASAY: The purpose is to allow doctors
to decide whether the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right.
MS. ASAY: -- the information should be
available.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's right, but
that -- that is an impediment to their using it for the
marketing of drugs. You're -- you're placing that
impediment on it. Isn't that the obvious purpose of it?
I mean, it doesn't necessarily make it bad, but -- but
let's not quibble over what the purpose is.
MS. ASAY: As with any information that
the -- that might inform a marketing campaign, not
having the information may be -- make their marketing
less effective or make it different.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the purpose. That's
the purpose of it, to prevent them from using this
information to market their drugs.
MS. ASAY: Again, Your Honor, the purpose is
to allow doctors to make the decision, and doctors may
want to allow its use or not allow its use. But the
law -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it's only for that use
that you interpose the requirement that the doctor
consent. For all other uses you don't require the
doctor's consent, right?
MS. ASAY: The only -- the consent
requirement in this statute goes to the use for
marketing and also to the sale by the pharmacy, and that
sale may be for other purposes as well, so there -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Asay, are any of the
other purposes, like for insurance purposes, cases where
the pharmacist is paid for giving out the prescriber
information? Here what they call data miners are paying
the pharmacists to get this information. In the case of
other, others who have access, do any of them also pay
the pharmacists?
MS. ASAY: Your Honor, there's two sort of
answers to that. The first is that, with respect to
pharmacies, the record shows here that the only place
that the pharmacies disseminate their information is to
the data vendors, and that is a commercial sale, and it
is primarily intended for the marketing purpose.
Insurers do have information about doctors' prescribing
practices and patient information. They have that
internally from their own claims and their relationships
with doctors and patients. So insurers are not -- do
not need to buy the data from pharmacies. They have it
without purchasing it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so the data is not
private in the sense that the physician who prescribes
knows that nobody will know what he is prescribing and
how much he prescribes and how often, because there are
a lot of people who do know that, right?
MS. ASAY: That's correct, Your Honor, there
are people who know what the doctor prescribes and what
the patient has received.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So the only thing it
assures the physician, the physician who prescribes, is
that he won't be bothered by drug companies who, on the
basis of their knowledge of information which other
people have, approach him in order to market their
drugs? That's basically all it assures the prescribing
physician, right?
MS. ASAY: It assures the prescribing
physician that his information about prescribing
practices will not be used for marketing without his
consent. It's like the difference -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And, and he could achieve
the same objective, could he not, by simply refusing to
talk to the marketer. When the marketer says, you know,
I want to talk to you about a new drug, he says: I
don't talk to drug manufacturers and marketers.
MS. ASAY: He could not achieve the same
result, Your Honor. What the record shows is that
doctors are particularly concerned about having access
to the best information and the most complete
information to make decisions for their patients. And
this data, as was discussed by Dr. Granday below, by
Kesselheim, by Mr. Erhari, the former sales
representative -- they all discussed how the data ends
up being used to filter the information that doctors
receive. So they receive less -
JUSTICE ALITO: One of the Respondents
argues that the statute would permit, does permit, the
use of this information for what they call a counter
detailing effort. Is that correct?
MS. ASAY: It is not correct, Your Honor, to
the extent that Respondents have suggested that
Vermont's academic detailing program, which is called
the evidence-based education program, uses this data.
JUSTICE ALITO: That wasn't really my
question. My question was does the statute permit it.
If Vermont wanted to do that, the University of Vermont
or some other entity wanted to do that, would the
statute permit it?
MS. ASAY: Well, the statute would not
permit the sale for that purpose, which is a separate
provision of the statute, because academic detailing is
not an exemption. They would also -- and then the
question of whether the information would be available
would default back to the pharmacy board rules, which
again -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could that data be sold to
a university for research purposes? The university
says: We really want this information to do some
research. Could the data be sold to the university for
that purpose?
MS. ASAY: Yes, Your Honor, the statute does
permit it to be sold for health care research -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could the researcher then
have a profile, a data bank, that is very helpful to the
general public, and sell that to the general public, to
the newspapers and so forth?
MS. ASAY: We do not believe so, Your Honor,
because of the background regulations that govern this
information, including Pharmacy Board Rule 20, which we
cited at page 4 of our brief, which also places
restrictions on disclosure of patient and practitioner
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no. It's sold to the
researcher. The researcher then comes up with a design
or database that is very fascinating for a number of
reasons. Can that researcher sell it to the New England
Journal of Medicine?
MS. ASAY: I'm not sure if I understand
whether the question is about the data itself or results
drawn from the data. But to the extent that the statute
allows the sale of the data for research, the
restriction on the other uses would accompany the sale,
and -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you clarify -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I still am not - I still
am not sure. In my hypothetical, what would happen?
MS. ASAY: When the -- if the pharmacy sold
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The pharmacy sells to the
researcher.
MS. ASAY: Right. If that happened -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The researcher is at the
university. The researcher has a data bank or has some
results that are very fascinating. The researcher then
wants to sell that to the New England Journal of
Medicine. What result under the statute?
MS. ASAY: The statute would have required
the pharmacy to prevent the further dissemination of the
data except for health care research.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You answered my question
earlier that they don't sell it to anyone else. That's
why I was trying to clarify your answer to Justice
Kennedy, because you told me the only sale -- the
pharmacists, they sell this to the data miners, they do
not sell it to the other people. But now you're
answering Justice Kennedy's question, yes, they sell it
to universities.
MS. ASAY: I apologize, Your Honor, if I was
not clear. As a factual matter, we know absolutely that
the pharmacies do not sell it to researchers. I had
understood this to be a hypothetical, if they did. But
as a factual matter, they do not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How does it increase the
prescribing physician's right of privacy that the data
about his prescribing can only be given away but can't
be sold? Does that make him feel happier about his
privacy?
MS. ASAY: What it allows the doctor to do
is to avoid an intrusive and invasive marketing
practice.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He can do that by saying:
I don't want to talk to you.
MS. ASAY: The doctor cannot -- can shut off
any communication and any information from the
pharmaceutical companies by slamming the door on the
detailers, but that's not necessarily in the interest of
doctors or patients. And what this -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That may well be, but then
just don't tell me that the purpose is to protect their
privacy. Now you're arguing a totally different
purpose: It makes it easier for the physician to cut
off approaches by drug companies that want to sell
drugs. If that's the purpose of this statute, it's
quite different from protecting his privacy. His
privacy isn't protected by saying you can't sell it but
you can give it away.
MS. ASAY: Your Honor, I think the
legislature here was using privacy to refer to the
autonomy interest that everyone has to some degree in
controlling the flow or the use of information about
them. This Court recognized in the Reporters Committee
case in the FOIA context that there was a privacy
interest in the aggregation of information on an FBI rap
sheet.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, that -
assuming there's some form of privacy that relates to
not being harassed because there's certainly legislative
record of doctors or groups of doctors testifying to
feeling harassed by detailers, if Thompson requires a
less restrictive method, why does this have to be an
opt-in rather than an opt-out? Because isn't an opt-out
I call up and say I, don't want you to have this
information? So isn't an opt-out less restrictive?
MS. ASAY: An opt-out would not protect the
privacy interests as much because it would assume that
doctors want to consent. I would like to say that here
the statute is -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but, given the
restrictions on speech, why is that a bad thing?
Meaning you don't really intend to tell us that the
State couldn't and wouldn't -- just like we got all of
that advertising relating to the opt-out on telephone
solicitations, virtually every American knew they could
do it if they chose. Maybe some didn't, but a vast
majority did. You can't really say Vermont's incapable
of telling doctors in a mailing or in some public
professional magazine, if you want to opt out, here's
the number?
MS. ASAY: Well, in fact, Your Honor, that's
exactly what the State does. Every time that the
doctors relicense, which is every 2 years, they get a
form and they can make a decision one way or the other
on the form that they receive. So it's perfectly
tailored to allow the doctors to decide and to not
restrict any marketing between a willing listener and a
willing speaker.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's another -
there's another purpose that I would like you to comment
on, and that is the, the State is interested in
promoting the sale of generic drugs and correspondingly
to reduce the sale of brand name drugs. And if that's
the purpose, why doesn't that run up against what this
Court has said that you can't, you can't lower the
decibel level of one speaker so that another speaker, in
this case the generics, can be heard better?
MS. ASAY: The State does have an interest
in reducing health care costs here. What's important
about this statute is the mechanism by which it allows
doctors to decide what information and what kind of
marketing they want, and it's different because what
it's about is access to information in this highly
regulated area. It's the difference between a doctor
who prescribes a nonprescription drug and a patient who
can take that information, walk into the pharmacy with a
$20 bill and leave with their medication, and no one has
learned anything about what the doctor prescribed for
the patient, about the patient's concerns, or the
doctor's concerns.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You want to lower -
you want to lower your health care costs, not by direct
regulation, but by restricting the flow of information
to the doctors, by, to use a pejorative word, but by
censoring what they can hear to make sure they don't
have full information, so they will do what you want
them to do when it comes to prescribing drugs, because
you can't take, I gather, direct action and tell them,
you must prescribe generics, right?
MS. ASAY: I disagree, Your Honor, for -
for two reasons. The statute does not limit any of the
information that doctors receive. So the State has not
in any way intervened in the information that the
pharmaceutical manufacturers can provide to the doctors.
They are free -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're restricting
their -- you're -- you're making it far more burdensome
for the manufacturers to reach their intended audience,
right? It's as if I want -- there's a demonstration in
town, all right? They need a permit to hold the
demonstration. They get the permit. I want to hold a
counter-demonstration, and you're saying it doesn't make
any difference whether I know where their demonstration
is going to be or not?
MS. ASAY: I disagree, Your Honor. The -
the ability of drug companies to locate the doctors that
are interested in their products is -- is not something
that calls for this data. It's very -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I think maybe you're
being -- you were the one that made the argument that
the State has an interest in reducing health care costs.
I assume that is by selling generics. And the Chief
Justice asked you a question: In effect, aren't you
doing this by regulating speech? And you say no, you
disagree. I don't understand that answer that you gave
to the Chief Justice.
MS. ASAY: It's not a restriction on speech
because it's a restriction only on the access to the
information that the pharmaceutical manufacturers would
like to use to inform their advertising, and it's only
in play if the doctors have objected to the use.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The information necessary
for effective speech is what you're saying, right?
MS. ASAY: Your Honor, it's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It only restricts the
information necessary for really effective speech?
MS. ASAY: No, I disagree. For
pharmaceutical manufacturers to approach -
JUSTICE SCALIA: They're looking for it
because it -- it identifies those doctors that they
would like to approach with their information which may
say, you know, our product is much better than the
generic; our quality control is -- you know, whatever.
There are arguments on both sides of those things. And
you are making it more difficult for them to speak by
restricting access to information that would enable
their speech to be most effective.
MS. ASAY: And -- their speech would be more
effective if they had access to patient information, if
they had access to their competitors' trade secrets.
There's certainly other information available that they
would like to use in marketing, but is not available to
them by law, and it -- it's our position that in the
same way they do not have a right to demand access to
information about the doctor's prescribing practices
without his consent.
If there are no further questions -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we'll -- we'll
give you -- we seem to have questions. We'll give you
additional time for rebuttal, so you don't -- don't
worry that we're cutting into that.
But you're making a judgment about how
their -- whether or not their speech will be as
effective or not. Don't you think they're the ones who
are entitled to make that judgment? It doesn't mean
that you're right or wrong. It just means that we would
not rely on your determination that it is -- their
speech is just as effective. They're the ones doing the
speaking and they think it's not.
MS. ASAY: Again, Your Honor, I don't think
we disagree that the -- the pharmaceutical manufacturers
consider this information useful and helpful in
targeting their marketing campaigns. The issue in this
case is whether their right trumps the right of the
doctor.
And if you go back to -- to the source of
this information, to the underlying transaction, the
doctor prescribing the drug for a patient and the
pharmacy dispensing it, the doctor and the pharmacy have
the same stake in that transaction. And until this
point the pharmacy has had complete control over whether
the information gets sold into this commercial stream
for marketing use. And all the statute does is put the
doctor on the same -- in the same place as the pharmacy
in terms of deciding what further use can be made of the
information.
JUSTICE ALITO: Can I ask you this question?
Do you agree with the Solicitor General's interpretation
of the statute?
MS. ASAY: Yes, we do, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Did you make that argument
below? Is that a change in your position?
MS. ASAY: It is not a change in our
position. It is not an issue that was pressed below,
because of the facts on the ground. There is only one
transaction here. There's a sale from the pharmacies to
the data vendors for these commercial purposes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But isn't this
inconsistent with what you told the court of appeals?
MS. ASAY: In our court of appeals brief,
for example, at page 29 to 30, we describe that sentence
of the statute as restricting both the sale of the
information and the use for marketing. And on page -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you -- you're
representing to us that you told the court of appeals
the statute should be interpreted as the SG is
interpreting it here; that's your representation?
MS. ASAY: It is my representation that -
that we did not say anything contrary to that, Your
Honor; and that it really was not pressed below. So I
would not say that we, in our briefs below, fully laid
out the position as the SG has, but we did not disagree
with it, either.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's an important
position. If you -- if that indeed was the meaning of
the statute, you should have told the court of appeals,
don't you think? Is it enough to say we didn't say no?
You should have said yes. You should have said this is
what it means.
MS. ASAY: And again, Your Honor, if I could
point also to pages 47 to 48 of our -- of our Second
Circuit brief, we did frame the issue as whether there
was a right to buy and sell prescription records. The
issue has always been in the case. But again the facts
on the ground, there has only been this one transaction,
and that -- that really was what we were litigating
about.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the court of appeals
on page 22a of the petition, summarizing what it
understood you to be arguing, says: "The statute only
imposes restrictions on the sale or use of such data for
marketing or promoting a prescription drug." That was
an inaccurate characterization of your -- the Second
Circuit did not understand your argument?
MS. ASAY: Again, Your Honor, I -- I don't
think that the argument was really framed clearly below.
But we did not -
JUSTICE ALITO: Could you please -- could
you please answer yes or no? If you're changing your
position, you're changing your position. It seems to me
this is an important point, and if the Second Circuit
based its decision on a misunderstanding of Vermont's
interpretation of its own statute, I would think you
would at least bring that out in the petition for
rehearing.
MS. ASAY: I -- I understand, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: And you did not?
MS. ASAY: We did not.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And could you explain how
you're going to interpret your statute going forward and
apply your statute going forward?
MS. ASAY: Yes, Your Honor. We interpret
the first clause of the statute to be a restriction on
sale, except for sale for the exemptions that are set
forth in the statute. And the other provisions of the
statute: The second provision is a restriction on the
use for marketing; and the third provision is a
restriction that would apply to pharmaceutical
manufacturers who have obtained the data for permissible
purposes and -- and need to abide by the continuing
restriction on the use. And the consent provision would
apply to each of those parts of the statute.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll afford you 5
minutes for rebuttal.
Mr. Kneedler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING the PETITIONERS
MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Vermont statute protects important
interests that the Vermont legislature could recognize
in physician autonomy and control over information that
concerns them. When a patient brings a prescription to
a pharmacy, after that point the patient information is
protected under HIPAA and under State law. That leaves
two primary actors in that transaction -- the physician
and the pharmacy. Both are professionals, both are
subject to regulation under a comprehensive, closed
system for the distribution of drugs.
Prior to the time this statute was enacted,
the pharmacy had complete control over the disposition
of that information. What this statute does is put the
physician, the prescriber, on an equal footing with
respect to the pharmacy -- with the pharmacy, with
respect to the use of the information about that
prescriber, but only with respect to the use of the
information in marketing to that prescriber. It is a
narrowly drawn statute that enables the physician, not
the State, enables the physician to determine whether
the information that he was required to furnish in
connection with the prescribing of a drug will be used
in the marketing of products to that -- to that
physician.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So he's required to
provide it, but he would be required to provide it quite
apart from the government regulation, right? I mean,
the pharmacy needs to know who to make the prescription
out to.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, it's because it's a
prescription drug. Federal and State law require a
prescription for a prescription drug. But if this was
not a prescription drug, a person can go into a drug
store and purchase a nonprescription drug just like any
other item in a drug store, not have to furnish the
name, not have to furnish any of this information. So
the information is furnished because of the requirement
of a prescription which is of long standing.
So this statute is really of a piece with a
-- with a number of other types of regulations to
protect -- protect privacy, for example, the Driver's
Privacy Protection Act, where a person is required to
furnish certain information in order to get a driver's
license. That statute prohibits the commercial
exploitation of that information.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it doesn't protect his
privacy. I mean, the -- his name and -- and the extent
of his prescriptions can be given away for a lot of
uses. It doesn't protect his privacy.
MR. KNEEDLER: It -- it -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It protect -- it enables
him to protect himself against drug companies that want
to talk to him.
MR. KNEEDLER: And that's -- the term
"privacy" is used to embrace that sort of autonomy and
control over information. That's -- that's the way in
which we're -
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right, so long as I
know that's what you're talking about. When you say
"privacy," you don't mean the prescriber's concern that
people will know that he prescribed certain drugs. He
doesn't care about that, right.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, he certainly does -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That is not protected by
this law.
MR. KNEEDLER: He -- he certainly -- he
certainly does care about that. And the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not protected by this
law.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, there are other -
there are other principles that protect it. The -
the -- the State's pharmacy regulations require
pharmacies to maintain the confidentiality -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm talking about what this
law protects. It does not protect his privacy in that
sense. It protects his privacy in the sense that it
enables him to avoid having to say go away when a
salesman for the -- for the -- for the drug company
comes, right?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, well -- it -- it -- it's
a lesser version of that, a less restrictive version of
that, because it doesn't put either the pharmaceutical
company or the physician in the position of an
all-or-nothing situation.
What -- what the law allows is the physician
to -- to say, you can -- you can come visit me, but I
don't want you to use this information that has
otherwise been kept confidential under pharmacy rules to
market to me. That enables the physician to choose to
have what the physician may choose -- may see as a more
objective presentation. It puts -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You mean it doesn't even
protect his privacy in the sense that it enables him not
to have to say go away. It doesn't even protect that.
They -- he -- he will still have to say that -
MR. KNEEDLER: If he -- if he doesn't -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- if the drug company
approaches him without having this information.
MR. KNEEDLER: If -- if he doesn't want to
talk to the -- to the detailer at all.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.
MR. KNEEDLER: But what this allows for -
physicians see value to this, but what this allows for
is for the physician to say: I don't want my
information to be used by this drug company in a way -
sort of inside information about my overall prescribing
practices. I would -- I would prefer to have a
presentation made to me without the information about
me, but information about the drugs that might be -
JUSTICE ALITO: What about the doctor who
didn't want the information distributed to anybody,
academic researchers, anybody? Does the law give
that -- give the doctor that option?
MR. KNEEDLER: It -- it does not, but
that's -- that's common in -- in -- in confidentiality
statutes. For example, HIPAA, which protects the
personal information of -- of persons in the health care
system, that information can be used and frankly would
have to be used, for example, for paying insurance
claims. The insurer needs to know what prescriptions or
what other medical services might have been provided.
The same thing with respect to insurers
controlling their costs, because there are formularies
and preferred drug lists. And so, people in that
position necessarily have to be able to use prescriber
information in order to find out whether -- whether
something was suitably prescribed under the preferred
drug list. So, it -- it's -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought our
precedents made -- indicated that it's problematic for
the State to make a determination about what uses
information can be -- to what uses information can be
put, particularly when it's an interested party as it is
here.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, what the statute does
is allow the physician -- or the prescriber to make that
choice. It's information about the prescriber that the
prescriber was required to furnish in connection with
issuing a prescription.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you told
me that -- I thought you told me that this doesn't
protect physician privacy to the extent of saying this
information can't be used for academic purposes even if
you, the physician, don't want it to be used for those
purposes?
MR. KNEEDLER: Right, and -- and -- and
again, that -- that's true in a variety of -- of -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the physician
doesn't get to decide for what uses the information -
MR. KNEEDLER: Not -- not -- not altogether,
but that doesn't mean that there is no confidentiality
interest or no autonomy or control interest, because a
physician practicing medicine knows that his patient's
insurer is going to -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the statute
-- I'm sorry. What if the statute said this information
can be used for any number of purposes, except not for
anybody who is going to criticize the State of Vermont?
MR. KNEEDLER: No, that would not be -- that
would not be permissible. It would not be germane to -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This information -
this information cannot be used for any purposes -- can
be used for any purposes except a purpose that will make
things more expensive for the State of Vermont?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I mean, that's -
that's a very broad goal. I mean, here -- here what the
State has done is -- is put the control in the
physician, who is a critical player in the -- in the
delivery system. So it's narrowly tailored to the
physician's use of the information about him in -- in
connection with how -- how he will be approached.
It's also important to recognize that this
is very different from the general advertising cases
this Court has had under the commercial speech doctrine.
This is not public advertising. This I think falls into
the camp of Dun and Bradstreet, where you have a -- a
targeted limited business audience, a -- a -- really
one-on-one. It's not -- it's not radio or television
advertising. It's one-on-one advertising in which the
public interest is -- is much more limited, and it's
one-on-one with respect to the very person whose
information was first furnished by the physician to the
pharmacy, so -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's because the
pharmaceutical company deems this to be the most
efficient. What you're saying is that the State can
prohibit the most efficient sort of speech, whereas if
it just had general dissemination which didn't serve any
particular purpose, that would be all right.
MR. KNEEDLER: But it -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- but if it becomes -
becomes focused and important and effective, then the
State can prohibit it.
MR. KNEEDLER: It's allowing the other
person to that representation visit to decide whether
information about him, not other information; about him
-- will be used in that situation. It's very much like
a don't -- a "do not call" statute or a "do not mail"
statute, in which people have the right to say: Do not
contact me for commercial information, except this one
is more limited. This one says -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if you say -
MR. KNEEDLER: -- do not use information
about me to contact me.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's say I don't
like to be bothered by people knocking on my door by
saying, sign this petition. Can I -- to protect my
privacy interests, can I prevent that as a general
matter?
MR. KNEEDLER: No, but you could post a sign
saying "no solicitations," and I think under this
Court's cases that -- that sort of protection -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can the State enact a law
that, say, petition signers cannot approach somebody
unless he has given his prior consent?
MR. KNEEDLER: No, but I think the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course not.
MR. KNEEDLER: But I think the State
could -- could enact a law that said if someone posts a
sign saying do not -- do not approach me, do not knock
on my door for this purpose -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Doctors can do that if they
don't want to talk to the -
MR. KNEEDLER: If they don't want to talk at
all. But this -- but this -- this is -- this is
addressed to a more limited problem and therefore is
more narrowly tailored, which is that it -- what -
what -- what the pharmaceutical company can't do without
the physician's consent is to -- is to use information
that was gathered about that very individual to approach
him.
It puts -- it puts the physician on an equal
footing with the pharmacy at the -- at the beginning of
the -- of the stream of commerce, it puts the physician
on -- on an equal footing with the pharmacy or the
pharmaceutical company at the other end by saying: I'm
going to keep that information about me to myself if
you'll -- if you are approaching me.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler, in most of
our commercial speech cases there has been a commodity.
Here it's a record maintained by the pharmacist. We
think of a pharmacist as selling the brand name or
generic name, but whose list is this? Whose record is
it? Is it the pharmacist's record the way goods, stock
in trade, would be?
MR. KNEEDLER: May I answer -- answer the
question?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. KNEEDLER: It is -- it is in the
possession of the pharmacy. But what the State has done
is to legitimately recognize that the physician has a
stake in some of the information on that list, and in
that respect the list is a -- is a commodity. The State
is regulating its commodity aspect, not its
communicative or expressive aspect, in -- in this
statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Goldstein.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court, good morning:
You will want to have available you to the
red brief of IMS Health, Incorporated, which in its
appendix reproduces the statutes and findings. And the
reason we have to look at the statutes and findings in
this argument is because the case can't be decided as a
matter of absolutes.
We know that statutes like HIPAA do protect
private information in third parties' hands and they are
constitutional. On the other hand, we also know that a
governmental restriction on the use of information could
be used to distort the marketplace of ideas. So the
case is going to have to be decided somewhere in the
middle. And in order to do that, we're going to have to
figure out where in the middle Vermont ended up.
Now, in doing that I want to clarify I think
three things in the questioning of the first half hour.
They are about what the practice are -- practices are at
issue here; what this statute does, actually what's the
rule; and why is it that Vermont did it.
So as to Justice Ginsburg's question, are
there other sales, the State gave you the correct answer
that the pharmacy companies don't sell to researchers,
but that's somewhat misleading. They sell to us, and we
sell to the researchers, we sell to the government, the
intermediaries like IMS Health. That's because we're
the aggregator. So it is not correct to say that the
only sale is for pharmaceutical marketing.
Second, on the important question of what
this statute -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I asked whether there are
sales to any other entities.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, and I said the State
gave you the accurate answer. But the implication of
the answer I think was not quite correct, because there
are sales for purposes other than for marketing.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But if this was a general
sale provision, then that would include those sales that
you're talking about?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It would not, because the
point would then -- and I'll come to the statute in a
minute, because all the exemptions -- right? So
there's -- there's a debate that Justice Alito focused
on about what does the statute mean, and I do want to
turn to that in a second.
But to jump ahead to your question, Justice
Kagan, assume that it's a general sale prohibition.
Then there are all the exemptions and the exemptions
take all of these other uses out from the sale
prohibition: for academic research, to go to the
government, and for clinical trials, for health care
research. Those are all exempted from the general sale
prohibition.
So let's do turn, if you don't mind, to what
it is the statute actually does. It is an important
point. First, I am going to come to our brief, but I
just want to read something. For your later reference
I'm going to have been reading from page 42 of PhRMA's
brief, and this is what -- what the State told the
Second Circuit, quote: "Data vendors may continue to
acquire, edit, and sell this information to whomever
they choose so long as that person does not use the
information for detailing."
In turn, the Second Circuit -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What was your page again?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sorry. That's going to be
from the PhRMA brief, the other red brief at page 42, at
the top of the page.
So, to whomever they choose, so long as that
person does not use the information for detailing. The
Second Circuit said: Okay, you're the State; here's how
we understand the statute. The statute only imposed -
quoting again, this is from 22A, it's the language that
Justice Alito quoted -- the statute only imposes
"restrictions on the sale or use of such data for
marketing or promoting a prescription drug." So that's
what they understood the statute to do.
Now, then the question becomes why did they
do it? This was -- Justice Scalia, you tried really
hard to get them just to admit, let's just acknowledge
what the point is here. And the State tries to deny
that the purpose here is to limit the information
getting into the hands of the doctor. We don't have to
rely on the State's lawyers. The State legislature was
very helpful here.
So if we go to the appendix of the IMS brief
now, page 1a, okay. Right at the top, the State says
their goal is -- this is finding number 1 at the bottom
of it -- containing health care costs.
Then in finding number 2 they explain why
they did it: "There is a strong link between
pharmaceutical marketing activities, health care
spending and the health of Vermonters."
Then finding number 3: "The goals of
marketing programs are often in conflict with the goals
of the State."
And my favorite, obviously, is number 4:
"The marketplace for ideas on medicine safety, the State
determined, was operating in conflict with the goals of
the State." They didn't like the marketplace of ideas.
Now, it is true, we acknowledge, that
another thing the State wanted to do was to give the
doctors some more control. It's in -- it's in -- there
is an opt-out option.
But can I just take you to how the State
explained what it was doing? That's just going to be on
page 7. Now, the State's lawyer and the Solicitor
General have explained to you that they believe that
doctors were concerned only with marketing and only with
marketing to them. That's not true. Finding 29. We
have to go all the way to number 29 to get to this goal
of the State: "Health care professionals in Vermont" -
I'm on page 7: "Health care professionals in Vermont
who write prescriptions for their patients have a
reasonable expectation that the information in that
prescription, including their own identity and that of
the patient, will not be used for purposes other than
the filling and processing of the payment for that
prescription."
It's not just about pharmaceutical
marketing. The doctors say -- we all love this; there's
stuff about us in our daily lives that we wish was
entirely private. The doctors here said: Hey, it would
be great for us if this information, we had complete
control over it. Doctors also would love if medical
malpractice judgments weren't broadly known. There are
all kinds of government records they would prefer not to
be out into the public sphere.
But then we ask ourselves, all right -- and
that's why I asked you to have this brief available -
what did the State do? Did the State in fact enact a
general privacy provision? Is it like HIPAA or instead
is all that the State did here target the use for
marketing, while it allows the use of the same data for
the opposite message by insurers and also by the
government?
So here's the statute. It appears on page 9
of the appendix. I want to start with subsection A
because the State helpfully reiterates its goals here.
The second half of this paragraph: "The State sought to
ensure costs are contained in the private health care
sector, as well as for State purchasers of prescription
drugs, through the promotion of less costly drugs and
ensuring prescribers received unbiased information."
That's what they're trying to do. They're trying to
say: We would like the drug companies to have a harder
time finding the doctors while the insurance companies
and the State have an easy time finding the doctors.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But there is another
interest here besides the State's concern about health
care costs, and that is the physician's privacy
interests.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can sell this
information to whomever you want, right?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You could sell to it
a journalist who wants to expose physicians in a
particular area who prescribe a lot of a particular
medication.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the public can
discern well, this is the guy who is treating these
people; we don't like these people, so we're going to
Pickett outside his clinic.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, nothing
prevents you from doing that, right?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, don't you
think that's protecting physicians' privacy, to prevent
that from happening?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Oh, I apologize. We're
allowed to do it before and after the statute, is my
point. Remember, what the statute does is -- and this
was the debate that Justice Alito tried to point us to
about what the statute actually does and the Second
Circuit, what it understood the statute to mean. And I
should also say the cert petition didn't say that there
was a problem with that.
Vermont picked out one thing. It said:
Look, when drug companies can find the doctors easily,
they can persuade the doctors to use more expensive
drugs. We pay a lot for drugs. We would prefer that
not happen, so we're going to make it harder. And the
State will have its counter-detailing program, it will
have its drug utilization review program, and insurers
will advocate for less expensive drugs. All the other
uses are still permitted.
If Vermont were serious about protecting the
doctors' privacy, as opposed to kind of a, a right of
publicity, a control over information about them, it
wouldn't have all these exemptions; it would have a
provision that says this is private information.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, suppose -
suppose that the Federal Trade Commission after a 3-year
study of pharmaceutical manufacturing practices, decides
-- finds the following. They say: We have found that
when drugs are sold to doctors it is very important that
the doctor find out what's curable, what the drug does,
how much it costs; and by the way, all those things
apply no matter who the doctor is. Who the doctor is,
is irrelevant. And therefore marketing that focuses
upon who the doctor is and what his previous practices
were is irrelevant and harmful and false; and therefore
we find that it is a false and deceptive practice under
section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act to use the
following prior practices of the doctor in selling him
new drugs, because it's irrelevant and because it's
false and because it's harmful. And they enact that as
a -- as a rule of the Federal Trade Commission.
Does the Constitution of the United States
forbid them, having made those findings in detail, from
controlling advertising to prevent what they have
determined is a false and misleading practice?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I do know -- I don't know,
but I do know the First Amendment applies to the rule.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, nobody says it doesn't
apply. The question -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: They -- they do. I've got a
couple people -
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not interested in what
they're saying for the present purposes. I'm
interested, surprisingly enough, in what I'm saying.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: So therefore I would like
to know the answer.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: This is a highly regulated
industry.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: If the Federal Trade
Commission's specialists and experts in false and
deceptive advertising concludes that this is a false and
deceptive practice, are you going to say that the
Constitution of the United States forbids them from
doing that?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I am, but I'm also going to
say that I don't have to win that argument to win this
case.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well -- well, when you say
you are, is there any precedent that says they can't
regulate false and misleading practice? Of course you
see where I'm going.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I do.
JUSTICE BREYER: If they can, why can't
Vermont?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. If it's actually
false and misleading. You can't just -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, they said it was
biased -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and they -- they have
made a study of it in the legislature and that's their
conclusion.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I don't think that the
government can say that because speech is so influential
it is false and biased. But I will say, Justice Breyer,
in my defense that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't take "biased" to
mean false. "Biased" means one-sided.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, that's exactly right.
And what we like -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You state the true facts
only on one side and not the other.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This case has not been
argued as a case restricting false advertising, has it?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, it's a case about
restricting true advertising.
Justice Breyer, can I just make one point
really quick? And that is, you dissented in Thompson v.
Western States and your dissent in that case says these
are drugs, the compounded drugs that have not been
approved by the FDA, and I'm very concerned that you're
evading the FDA regulatory requirements about truthful
advertising.
These are the opposite drugs. These are the
drugs that all the messages that are being conveyed here
have been preapproved by the FDA. This is truthful and
accurate speech, and the State only wants one side of
the debate to get out.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's where I was going.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: I chose an example that's
beyond your case.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's why it's called a
hypothetical.
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's why I wondered
how you would respond to that. So -- I thought that was
one that was going to be obviously constitutional, but
you're going to stop me there. So -- so what I want to
say -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- is how is this
different?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: And I suppose I don't know
the extent to which this does or does not promote
unbiased information from going to the doctors, and
isn't that a matter for the doctors themselves and the
Vermont legislature rather than this Court to decide?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. A couple of things
about that. First, as I said, these are messages that
have been cleared by the experts. The FDA has to review
all the detailing communications.
Second, the doctors do get to say: I don't
want you to come visit me. They do that all the time.
My dad's a doctor; he doesn't visit with detailers.
This is instead a rule about whether you can talk
about -- about someone, not talk to someone.
The drug companies and the intermediaries
are talking about drug -- about prescriber practices,
and you can decide who you want to try and approach.
There's nothing alleged to be false or misleading.
Third, the way the First Amendment works in
the marketplace of ideas that so upsets Vermont is that
both sides get to tell their story, right? The thing
that is supposed to be biased here is that the drug
companies have too much money. That is not a basis for
restricting speech.
The way it works is if the message is
accurate, as the FDA has determined it to be, the drug
companies can go make their pitch. Vermont can come
along and make the opposite pitch. Terrific. So can
insurance companies.
But what you can't do is have a rule that
says one side is going to have a much harder time
getting to their audience.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Goldstein, I -- I
understand your argument and I have a difficulty. Today
with the Internet and with computers, there's virtually
no privacy individuals have. Any transaction you do
could be spread across the world instantaneously, and
for the longest time catalogs would sell your name and
address to other catalogers, and if you bought one
product from one company, you would get a thousand
catalogs from 50 million others.
Today the industry is policing that, in part
to get the State not to intercede, by giving you an
opt-out option. And so, if you're a consumer who
doesn't want a million catalogs, the industry is giving
you the right to opt out, so they don't sell your
address.
If there is, as I see, some interest that
the State legitimately has in protecting that part of
the public who says, I entered into this transaction, I
didn't really want you to sell my name, I didn't want
you to do other things with it, all I did was this
transaction, why can't the State say -- there is a
difference in my mind between an opt-in and opt-out?
Why can't the State say, your desire to enter a
transaction in which you're doing just that transaction
and not others is something we can protect?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It can. And let me explain
why it is that that rule -- and let me typify it for
you. There is a pending bill in the Congress called the
McCain-Kerry Consumer Protection Act and it does what
you're talking about. It says we're not just going to
leave it to the industry; we're going to have a set of
governmental rules.
Let me distinguish that bill from what goes
on under Act 80. What that says is that if you are a
consumer and you engage in a transaction, you have the
right to opt out of any unauthorized uses, because it's
just between you and the business, right?
So there are three differences between that
and this. The first is the structure of the statute.
That's not what this statute does. This statute says
every use of the information is just fine, except this
one, this one that allows one speaker who we don't
really like to go out and convey its message.
The second difference is the public
importance of the speech involved. What that consumer
information would be used for is to make some random
consumer pitch to you or about you. This is information
about lifesaving medications where the detailer goes in
and talks about double blind scientific studies that are
responsible for the development of drugs that have
caused 40 percent of the increase in the lifespan of the
American public. So there's a tremendous difference in
the public importance.
The third is the fundamentally different
nature of the privacy interest. Unlike your consumer
transaction over the Internet, this is a doctor. You
can call up any doctor's office and find out what their
prescribing practice is. It's part of their business.
Imagine the following conversation, if you
will, and that is, and -- and if you want to look for a
place in the common law where this comes from, it would
be section 652D of the Restatement (Second) of Torts,
what things are private and what aren't. It asks
whether a reasonable person would be outraged.
If one doctor were to say to another one,
you know what, Dr. Smith told people that three out of
four times I prescribe Aciphex for -- as a proton pump
inhibitor, would anybody be outraged about that? No.
But if you knew that the -- the company that you bought
from on the Internet was selling that information or if
they were giving away private medical information, you
would genuinely be outraged.
So, Justice Sotomayor, the reason I started
this argument about it has to end up in the middle is we
know that statutes like that have to be constitutional.
At the same time, we know that the government can use
controls over information to really distort speech. So
the question is, what happens in this statute? And this
statute has a structure that's not intended to protect
privacy. It would look totally different.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I read in one of the
briefs that pharmacies were not permitting either
patients and/or doctors to opt out; that if a patient
came in and said I don't want my doctor's information
sold, or a doctor has called the pharmacy and said, I
don't want you to sell my information, the pharmacies
are not respecting those limitations.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why don't I read this
statute as simply doing what the consumer statutes are
doing, which is giving people some control outside of
the limited transaction that they're engaged in?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. A couple of things.
Remember, the patients have nothing to do with this.
The State doesn't give any control to the patient. That
would be true before or after. So we're talking about
the doctors.
I -- I did concede, when I read you finding
29 at page 7 of the appendix, that this does give a
little bit more control to the doctor. I mean, it just
does.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I stop you?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You say that this statute
doesn't give the patient any control. But the patient
is already taken care of by the Federal law. You can't
-- I mean, the patient is protected. The question is
whether the physician should be as well.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I agree, Justice Ginsburg.
Justice Sotomayor in her question to me said, why don't
I read this as giving -- she said that they aren't
giving patients options about what happens with this
prescription information. My only point was this
statute doesn't change it.
You're quite right that our -- our position
is no threat to the protection of private health
information, which is reasonably regarded as extremely
confidential. So, on the question of whether it give
some greater control, it does. But what -- the thing
you have to focus on here is the line that it draws in
when it gives greater control is a line that's intended
to discriminate against a speaker.
You have to look, take -- I'll give you an
example of this, Cincinnati v. Discovery Network. The
City of Cincinnati came to you and said, look, we've
eliminated the commercial news racks, and these people
who want to sell their commercial stuff should use
something other than news racks. We're targeting the
blight that comes from commercial news racks. This
Court said: Look, you can't redefine your interests to
reflect your statute. You can't -
JUSTICE BREYER: Could the Federal Power -
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission say, we want
you to collect certain information about who is using
what natural gas and give it to the fire department?
It's for the fire department in case of emergency, and
what we don't want to have happen is it's used to stove
manufacturers to sell homeowners gas stoves.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: They could do that?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. That's LAPD v. United
Reporting.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, fine. If they
could do that, why can't they do this?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Because the key point in
LAPD v. United Reporting is that it's in the hands of
the government. Let me -- the fact -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, this is
information -- see, this is information that starts off
being collected because the government requires it to be
collected. So it's there for that reason. And the
government says we want you to get this information,
it's done for this purpose, so, you know, other
purposes, and we don't want it to be used for commercial
advertising purposes. That's what they say they've done
in this statute.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's what they say.
They're just not right.
The -
(Laughter.)
MR. GOLDSTEIN: This information -- I would
direct you to the amicus brief -- you don't have to pull
it out right now, but for later. The brief of the
National Association of Chain Drugstores, if you just
make a reference, on pages 10 to 11 collects the history
of how this information has been gathered. And they
make the point that the Court did in the first 30
minutes, that of course the doctor is going to put his
name on the prescription. We have to be able to call
the doctor and say: I can't read your handwriting.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose you had a statute
in which the pharmacy cannot give the information or
sell the information to anybody; it must remain with the
pharmacy.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: A copy of the prescription
must be given to the State of Vermont. The State of
Vermont then has the same restrictions that this statute
has. That would be LAPD.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That would be LAPD. If
the -- it would be almost LAPD.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And what -- and I want to
know what your answer would be. If LAPD is correct -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then what ruling would we
have to make in my hypothetical case?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. If it's in the hands
of the -- so let me just make sure I am on the same
page. I am going to answer your question directly.
The pharmacy can't disclose it directly to
anyone else. The government gets a copy of it. That
does not make it LAPD. If the pharmacy was government
owned, that would be LAPD. Now, let me answer your
hypothetical. Right? LAPD, it was an arrest record, it
was in the hands only of the State. The Court said:
Look, this is the State's information. Justice
Ginsburg's concurrence says: It's like a subsidy, the
decision whether to give it out or not.
Now, in your hypothetical, which is it is in
a private hand, but it is banned for any other use -
that would be a real privacy statute. I think that it
would still be unconstitutional, but it would be much
closer.
The reason it might be unconstitutional is
twofold. First, that the privacy interest in it I think
is not very significant, because it's how the doctor
runs his or her business, and second it would still
allow the discrimination. If you were convinced in your
hypothetical that what Vermont was trying to do is what
it said it was doing here in its findings, and that is,
to make it harder for the drug companies to reach the
audience and make it easier for the insurance company
and the government to reach their audience, Greater New
Orleans Broadcasting, which involves a ban on private
casino speech but not tribal and governmental speech,
says discriminating against speakers like that is very
troubling. So that's I think how your hypothetical -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what you're saying I
think to Justice Kennedy is answering my earlier
question by saying the State cannot constitutionally
stop the spread of information. So if the State said to
the pharmacy, all you can do is fill the prescription,
that's what doctors think pharmacies are doing, and
that's all you can do, you're saying that's
unconstitutional?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I am saying that that's
unconstitutional. I am also saying that the reason is
very specific to this kind of information, that is that
it would allow speaker discrimination, and I am also
saying most emphatically that is not this case. That
would be a much closer case. It would look much more
like a real privacy statute.
What I would take from the hypothetical is
not the lesson we should lose -- and you should never
take that lesson -
(Laughter.)
MR. GOLDSTEIN: -- but the -- but instead
the lesson that that's what's so different about this
statute. This statute, as in all the language quoted
earlier, says Katie bar the door, do whatever you want
to do with this stuff, just don't do something we
disagree with when it comes to the message.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you're really -- you
are really hinging your argument on the discrimination
aspect -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I am -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that --that drug
companies or detailers are being treated differently
than any other user of this information?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is a principal part of
our argument. I did say before in describing the
Kerry-McCain bill, that there were three things, not
just the discrimination, but the greater public interest
of the -- the detailer speech and the lower privacy
interest, so I wouldn't throw those out.
Now can I just preempt an argument that my
friend from the Vermont -- State of Vermont is going to
say in her rebuttal? And that, is she's going to come
and say that, look, the insurance companies are actually
paying for the drugs. All their -- this exception is
not one that's about advocacy, and I just want to make
sure we all know ahead of time because I don't get a
surrebuttal, that that's not accurate.
So if -- if you still have the IMS brief
with you at page 53 this time, so at page 53 the first
paragraph is about the State's own use of this
information for a variety of purposes. There is -- the
reply brief for the State introduces a debate about
today whether they are using the NPI data for
counter-detailing. There is no dispute that they use it
for other State programs, like the drug utilization
program -- that's the quotes in the first paragraph.
But the better paragraph is going to be -- it's the
second paragraph, it starts, the State -- "the statute's
parallel formulary compliance exemption." And this
paragraph talks about advocacy by the insurance
companies. So it's not just that the drug -- insurance
company says to the doctor, I'll pay for -- $5 for this
drug, but the insurance companies take PI data under the
exemption in the statute, go to doctors and say we
really think this cheaper drug would be better. That is
straight-out speaker discrimination.
So we quote Kolassa: "Insurance companies
are using physician-identifiable information to call
physicians to try to get them to comply with
formularies, to try to get them to change their
prescribing in a way that may or may not be in the
patient's best interests. In just" -- this is a further
quote -- "In just the last couple of years there has
been an amazing increase in the amount of information
provided by payers, insurers that will send scientific
documents to physicians" -- I've rolled over to page
53 -- "will call when physicians are prescribing too
much or too little of a product and provide them with
information." It goes on and on -- "virtually several
times a day."
So that is the message that I would take
away from the argument, and that is we are emphatically
in favor of the constitutionality of HIPAA, of the
McCain-Kerry bill, the things that concerned you. You
have to decide this case in the middle about what
Vermont actually did, and it was unbelievably candid
about what it was trying to do. It said the marketplace
of ideas doesn't work for us, and so it designed a
statute -- and you can decide this case very narrowly on
the ground that what Vermont did is it went too far is
in just saying we're not actually trying to protect
privacy; what we're trying to do is give the doctors
control when it suits our own best interests.
I do want to preempt one other last
argument, and that is the suggestion that this isn't
paternalistic at all. Right? We just let the doctors
decide. But the State's goal, what the State is trying
to do, is paternalistic. The reason the State picked
this one exemption, the reason it picked between these
speakers, is because it doesn't want this message to get
to the doctors. And if you can keep -
JUSTICE BREYER: It used to be true there
was something called a regulated industry.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And selling was within
activity among many.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: And there were lots of
regulations that could be imposed upon selling.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure, right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Are you saying that all
those should be reexamined?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I -- I thankfully am not.
Here are the -- here are the cases. This was the
argument that was made and rejected in Virginia Board of
Pharmacy which was about a pharmacy rule. They said
that it would be unprofessional. Then the Solicitor
General in the person of Mr. Kneedler came you to in
Thompson v. Western States and said we need to stop this
compounded drug marketing because this is heavily
regulated; this is a closed market, and the Court said,
I'm sorry, no. The nature of a marketplace of ideas is
you get to say your piece and the other side gets to say
their piece. The FDA heavily regulates this area, the
information is perfectly accurate and it's incredibly
valuable.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You would have no
objection I take it, if there were not the academic
exception and if the State didn't -- didn't push its own
contrary program?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We would have much less of
an objection, and that's no accident. Let me just say
this is not a flaw in the drafting. The State really
wanted to push its counter message, and thankfully so.
This government has a real interest here. Insurers have
a real interest here, but so does the other side of the
debate, and what the State doesn't get to do is just
pick sides and prevent the debate from happening.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How would -- if you
were truly concerned about physician privacy -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You didn't want
people to know that this physician prescribed this drug
more often because it tells you a lot about his
practice -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. Sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- that he may not
want known, how would you -- how would you write this
statute?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: You would take Justice
Kennedy's hypothetical, and I don't think the Court has
to confront whether such a statute would be
constitutional because it would be very different.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would you remind me
what Justice Kennedy said?
(Laughter.)
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. He said the rule is
the pharmacy can't give it to anybody.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Who's -
JUSTICE KAGAN: How about the pharmacy can't
sell it to anybody?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I don't -- I don't
understand why that protects privacy. That protects
against commercialization, but I don't think the
government has nearly as much interest in
commercialization as it does in actual privacy. Section
652D of the restatement of torts doesn't talk about the
outrage of being able to use -- we have a capitalist
economy, and we sell newspapers and books and that sort
of thing. Commercialization isn't a bad thing. It's a
question of whether privacy is genuinely protected.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you do it -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's not exactly not this
case but just in the abstract, do we have a rule that if
there are two statutes, A, the statute is passed for a
bad purpose, B, the statute is not passed for a bad
purpose, if the statute is otherwise the same, are they
both unconstitutional or just one and why? And what
case do I look to other than maybe Church of Lukumi?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: You look to -- yes, we
win -- Thompson v. Western States. Remember what the
government's argument there was: If you allow the
marketing of compounded drugs that are not FDA approved
you will evade the very important FDA regulatory
program. That was a perfectly important rationale, and
the Court said but it also has the purpose of keeping
information out of the hands of doctors. It's
unconstitutional.
I'll give you another example. Grosjean,
Minneapolis Star and -- Raglan -- those are cases about
taxing the instruments of communication. So a tax on
newsprint, a tax on ink; and the Court said we're not
worried about your bad motive, you have a very important
rationale in trying to raise revenue, that's a perfectly
valid purpose; but what you're also doing is you're
picking out the press and you're making it harder to
speak; it's unconstitutional.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This -- this is, Mr.
Kneedler explained this is the government's information.
Why can't -- you wouldn't have to have it if it weren't
prescription. It was the fact that it has to be
prescribed that requires this information. The
government frequently controls the use to which
information can be put. It makes me file a tax return,
and it doesn't allow, you know, dissemination of that.
It restricts it.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And presumably it
could say that if an accountant prepares my tax return,
that accountant can't sell it, either.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is this any
different?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Oh, okay. Two pieces to the
puzzle. The first is why can't I demand it from the
IRS? Okay? And second is going to be why can't the
accountant give it away? The first one is LAPD, and
it's the same true -- the same thing is true of campaign
finance reports. The government has plenary authority;
when you give information to the government, what the
government then does with the information.
The important lesson to be derived from LAPD
is that nine members of the Court seemingly agreed -
and I defended the statute in that case -- nine members
of the court in that case agreed that if this had been
private reports rather than the government's reports,
then the statute would have been unconstitutional.
The reason your tax preparer can't give it
away, the reason I can't give away attorney-client
secrets, the reason that the government is going to be
able to tell Internet companies that they can't give
await the consumer information is that it's really
private. But what if, instead, the government had a
rule that says tax preparers can't give out tax
information when it will encourage people to protest
against their taxes? But if it will encourage people to
comply with their taxes, it's perfectly fine. You can't
draw lines that are intended to discriminate against
speakers. That's the main principle of our case.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Asay, you have five minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BRIDGET C. ASAY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MS. ASAY: I would like to begin with the
point that my friend was making about the use of the
information by insurance companies. Insurers are not
similarly situated to pharmaceutical manufacturers.
Insurers receive information directly from doctors and
parents in the ordinary course of their business and
they use it as part of providing and paying for care to
patients.
And when my friend described the fact that
insurers do that with doctors' information as speaker
discrimination, I would like to point out that -- the -
not only the record but the examples, for example, that
PhRMA points to on page 126 their brief show that
insurers have patient information for that purpose as
well. HIPAA allows those uses of both patient and
prescriber information to manage benefits.
So, to argue that pharmaceutical
manufacturers are being discriminated against if they
don't have access to the same health care information
that we provide to our insurance companies would -
would begin to raise serious questions about a statute
like HIPAA. And that -- that just highlights that in
this area of -- of private information and information
control that many of these statutes are structured in
such a way that there are expected and intended and
permissible uses of information, and other uses for
which people are allowed to have control over the
further use of their information. And here we're
talking about the control allotted to doctors.
We place an enormous amount of trust in
doctors to make the right treatment decisions for their
patients. Part of their ability to make that, those
decisions depends on the information that they receive.
And what doctors have said to the Vermont legislature
and to the Court in this case is that many of them find
this practice objectionable and that it is not helpful
to them or to their patients to have their information
monitored for this marketing purpose. And all that they
have asked for is the right to object. And I would like
to -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Asay, I want to
give you the chance to respond to a point that was
highlighted by your friend, which is the fourth
legislative finding, which does seem to say that the
State is doing this because it doesn't like an imbalance
in the marketplace of ideas.
MS. ASAY: Thank you, Your Honor.
The findings, first of all, have to be taken
as they were adopted, which was in support of not this
statute even as it was written, but as a much larger
bill that contained many sections, including a provision
that created the evidence based education program which
is a -- a clinical -- a -- a program to provide
voluntary education to doctors, and to the statute as it
used to be written, which -- which not only had this
provision for the doctors' choice and the use of the
information, but also mandated that pharmaceutical
detailers provide information affirmatively as part of
the marketing process.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do we have -- were
there -- were there findings with respect to the statute
as enacted?
MS. ASAY: There are no findings that
accompany the amendment that resulted in this statute.
And to -- to return to, I think Justice
Kennedy's point from earlier, the statute, I think, has
to stand or fall on the restriction that it -- that it
allows for doctors. The Court, for example, in O'Brien
discussed the fact that striking down a statute because
the court disagreed with the record would -- would
simply mean that the legislature could adopt the same
statute again on a different record.
We would say here that what -- what's -- the
question before the Court really is, may doctors have
this opportunity to control the use of their information
about -- their nonpublic information about their
prescribing practices as a marketing tool or not, and
that -- that -- that should be the -- the focus of the
Court's inquiry.
I would also like to just return to the
point that -- that I believe I was making earlier that
this statute is so different from the cases in which the
Court has considered restrictions on the direct
commercial advertising and the provision of information
to the public.
This is an entirely nonpublic commercial
transmission of data. It -- it starts with a private
commercial transaction, it's a private commercial
exchange between the data vendors and the pharmacies.
It's used in a way that it is never disclosed publicly,
never included in the advertising message. There's no
restriction here on the information that's provided to
doctors. The truthful information that the FDA permits
to be provided about prescription drugs. And there's no
restriction on any exchange between a willing listener
and a willing speaker.
I believe my friend suggested that -- that
anyone could call a doctor's office and find out by
asking what the doctor prescribed. Pharmaceutical
manufacturers can do that as well. And if the doctor
volunteers that information, there can be that exchange
of information. The statute does not restrict it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I take it there's -
there's -- it's against the law for a physician to say I
want you to fill this prescription in a particular
place, a particular pharmacy because I know that
pharmacy doesn't sell the information. They can't do
that, can they?
MS. ASAY: I don't believe they can, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Counsel. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:14 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
29:3,5,9,9 41:5 41:8 45:7 66:19 61:19 assume 13:6
63:17 43:18 51:25 47:22 area 14:18 38:25 assuming 12:22
68:19 advocacy 56:6 22:3 52:7 argue 64:22 7:18
26:17 27:23 afford 21:23 20:23 32:1,1 argument 1:13 audience 15:17
59:14 age 4:18 33:13,25 34:1 2:2,5,9,12 3:4,8 29:7 45:20 54:7
6:14 8:4 12:19 answered 11:1 20:18,20 22:1 authority 63:5
16:12 aggregator answering 11:7 32:14,22 42:5 autonomy 12:15
33:18 54:14 45:22 48:19 22:8 24:10 28:7
agree 18:22 50:4 answers 6:17 55:14,21 56:1 available 5:8 9:4
AL 1:4,7 48:13 52:18 arguments 17:3 avoid 11:20 25:7
63:3 18:21,25 20:12 apart 23:7 Asay 1:16 2:3,13 a.m 1:14 3:2
45:14 26:15 34:9 39:14 4:22,24 5:4,7
39:17 appeals 19:8,9 5:15,22 6:5,9 B
59:11
appears 38:3 11:9,19,24 bad 5:13 13:10
36:17
27:16 appendix 32:20 12:13 13:5,20 61:6,12,12 62:4
61:18 36:2 38:4 49:19 14:12 15:9,24 ban 54:9
applies 41:8 16:11,18,21 bank 9:15 10:19
47:4
21:21 40:18 19:2,9,17 20:4 bar 55:10
25:15 16:22,25 30:19 66:2,18 68:14 basis 7:14 45:11
37:25 30:25 31:10 asked 16:7 33:22 beginning 31:13
64:20 45:5 37:21 65:19 behalf 1:17,20
approached 29:1 asking 68:4 1:22 2:4,7,11
26:3 aspect 32:9,10 32:15 64:5
67:11 brings 22:9 68:17,18 Church 61:15 40:12,23 41:2
broad 28:21 cases 6:10 29:3 Cincinnati 50:19 51:3
broadly 37:17 67:12 20:25 35:1,5,12 Committee
57:1 15:16 catalogers 46:2 cited 9:21 commodity 31:20
45:10 54:2 64:11 censoring 15:4 26:25 48:6
55:22 certain 23:23 11:3 33:7 11:25 62:2
66:6 C 24:16 51:4 clause 21:12 communications
13:3 30:3 48:2 chance 65:22 clinical 4:25 4:2,15 7:13
called 8:18 44:3 changing 20:23 59:7 38:12,13 39:23
calls 16:2 20:17 collect 51:4 56:22,24 57:3
campaigns 18:7 16:6,10 17:17 come 25:16 34:7 31:8,16 46:3
42:7,12 candid 57:22 21:23 22:4 23:5 34:22 44:24 48:14 54:7
capitalist 61:4 27:9,20 28:3,10 45:15 56:3 56:23
44:1,5 care 9:13 10:25 28:16 30:7,10 comes 9:25 15:6 compelled 3:16
51:2 14:13 15:1 16:5 32:3,12,16 25:9 48:6 50:24 competitors 3:23
24:17,22 26:22 38:15,20,23 55:12 4:3 17:9
34:17 36:5,8 39:3,8,11 59:13 comment 14:4 complete 8:5
3:8 64:4 50:1 64:12,24 60:20 62:9,19 commercial 6:20 37:15
32:19 12:18 14:11 65:21 66:15 23:24 29:4 30:5 56:20
35:8,8 18:8 20:8 32:22 68:8,16 31:20 50:21,22 comply 57:5
37:21 52:7 33:4 42:6 43:8 choice 27:17 50:24 51:24 63:23
56:9,13 43:9,10,14 44:2 66:11 67:14,16,18,18 compounded
51:6 53:6 54:25 choose 25:19,20 commercializa... 43:15 59:6
65:15
contained 38:7 40:2 56:15 debate 34:9 detailer 26:5
context 4:5 12:18 course 30:22 41:25 42:1 66:13
43:16 continuing 21:19 64:11 decide 3:16 4:11 9:2 35:4,11
60:1 contrary 19:18 court 1:1,13 3:11 5:5 13:25 14:15 44:22
22:9 control 17:2 19:9,14,25 44:18 45:5 18:1 27:11
40:8 49:11,15 53:15 59:7 decides 40:13 45:14
50:13 50:16 58:4 65:4 62:3 63:9,11 decision 5:23 47:20
26:20 28:6 controlling 12:16 67:4,13 53:18 14:18 15:22
29:1 48:4 criticize 28:13 default 9:5 29:3 44:12
13:7 17:15 conveyed 43:20 curiae 1:20 2:8 defense 42:25 55:8 60:14
30:20 convinced 54:3 22:3 degree 12:15 62:24 67:2,12
copy 52:21 53:11 cut 12:7 delivery 28:24 differently 55:18
42:2 correspondingly D 3:1 15:18,20,22 15:7 52:7 67:13
44:7 48:20 costly 38:9 daily 37:13 department 1:19 directly 53:9,10
costs 14:13 15:1 dangerous 3:14 51:5,6 64:10
38:7,17 40:17 7:3 8:7,9,19 9:7 Deputy 1:18 15:9,24 16:9,21
32:12 64:2 10:7,19,25 11:5 describe 19:10 55:12
47:5,15 counter 8:14 20:15 21:18 describing 55:21 discern 39:4
49:10 59:20 35:1,16 37:25 design 9:25 disclose 53:10
counter-demo... 56:14,24 67:17 designed 57:24 disclosed 67:20
63:24 36:19,25 37:12 54:6 55:17 emphatically 66:23
38:14 39:23,24 57:1 59:6 60:4 enable 17:5 exception 56:5
44:17,23 49:3 5:3,11,21 7:16 24:6 25:7,19,23 exchange 67:19
55:14 56:25 58:3,7,12 15:6 22:15 37:22 41:1 exempted 34:18
57:2 61:23 64:10,15 24:16 26:14 enacted 22:16 exemption 9:3
65:9,11,14 66:9 38:9,9 39:25,25 66:17 56:20,25 58:10
67:23 43:15,15,19,20 63:22 21:13 34:8,14
29:18 doctrine 29:4 England 10:2,21 experts 41:24
documents 57:12 E enormous 65:10 44:21
54:18 62:6 easier 12:7 54:7 entirely 37:14 exploitation
31:1 55:10 economy 61:5 entitled 17:24 expressive 32:10
14:18 Dr 8:7 48:11 education 8:19 equal 22:19 24:2 27:22
18:9,12 drafting 59:19 66:7,9 31:12,15 44:15
26:15 draw 63:24 EDWIN 1:18 2:6 Erhari 8:8 extremely 50:12
35:24 drawn 10:6 22:24 22:1 ESQ 1:16,18,22
draws 50:15 effect 16:7 2:3,6,10,13 F
44:25 driver's 23:21,23 effective 5:18 ET 1:4,7 fact 13:20 37:22
49:5,20 drug 3:19 4:1,15 16:17,20 17:6,8 evade 61:20 51:17 62:12
54:1 7:13,25 8:1 17:23 18:2 evading 43:17 64:14 66:24
68:4,5 12:8 14:19 29:22 evidence 66:7 facts 19:4 20:8
5:4 20:16 23:2,11 29:17 8:19 factual 11:10,13
6:22,25 23:12,13,13,14 effort 8:15 exactly 13:21 fall 66:22
12:3,24 23:15 24:7 25:8 either 19:22 43:3 61:9 falls 29:5
13:7,17 26:2,10 27:4,8 25:12 49:2 example 19:10 false 40:21,22
14:15 35:17 38:12 62:21 23:21 26:21,24 41:1,6,24,25
39:23 40:3,16 eliminated 50:21 44:1 50:19 42:9,15,24 43:2
focus 50:15 67:8 gather 15:7 36:2 37:2 45:15 38:2 42:23
45:14 following 40:14 1:18 3:5 9:16 36:15 38:5 63:16,19
61:19,20 40:24 48:4 9:16 29:3,18 goes 6:6 47:3,18 governmental
footing 22:19 30:13 34:3,13 57:15 33:2 47:2 54:10
40:12,23 forbid 41:4 37:23 59:4 21:9,10 28:9,13 61:18 62:10
50:1 forbids 42:2 General's 18:22 31:17 33:4,5 63:12
form 12:22 13:23 generic 14:6 17:2 34:22,24 35:7 Granday 8:7
48:2 frame 20:6 31:19 33:22 38:22 39:2,7,10 H 1:3
68:3 framed 20:20 49:22,24 50:4 39:14 41:7,11 half 33:8 38:6
38:13,14 free 15:14 53:17 42:11,14,18,22 hands 32:25
65:24 frequently 62:14 give 12:12 17:18 43:3,7,10,25 35:24 51:16
54:5 66:3 64:14 65:23 36:18 49:15,19 45:21 46:21 handwriting
68:2 49:25 50:13,18 49:8,13,23 50:4 52:15
fundamentally 60:19 61:25 53:7 54:21 55:7 happened 10:17
29:12 23:16,23 27:18 given 11:16 13:9 59:17 60:2,7,11 happens 48:23
34:22 41:8 furnished 23:17 24:3 30:20 60:18,23 61:16 50:7
45:7 47:9 29:12 52:22 62:18,22,25 happier 11:17
53:25 further 10:24 gives 50:16 good 32:17 harassed 12:23
63:1,3 17:16 18:19 giving 6:11 46:6 goods 31:24 12:25
57:8 65:8 46:8 48:16 govern 9:19 hard 35:21
54:4,12 55:3 46:5,8 47:1 63:6,7,18,21 57:8 58:4
influential 42:23 64:21,24 65:3,3 33:17 45:3
10:25 ideas 33:3 36:14 16:14 66:12,13 67:5,6 Internet 45:23
15:1 16:5 36:16 45:8 information 3:16 67:14,22,23 48:1,15 63:17
32:19 57:24 59:8 66:1 3:20 4:4,13,18 68:6,7,12 interpose 6:2
34:17 identifies 16:24 5:7,15,17,21 inhibitor 48:13 interpret 21:9,11
37:3,4 identity 37:7 6:12,13,19,22 ink 62:3 interpretation
50:11 Imagine 48:4 6:23 7:14,19 inquiry 67:9 18:22 21:2
imbalance 65:25 8:5,6,10,14 9:4 inside 4:12 26:11 interpreted
65:16 47:15,23 16:13,16,20,25 26:24 38:13 introduces 56:13
33:20 34:21 22:18,21,23 insurer 26:25 involves 54:9
imposed 35:13 25:17 26:3,10 27:2 38:1 40:3 IRS 63:2
32:24 35:15 27:12,12,17,23 intend 13:11 issuing 27:19
57:19 IMS 1:7 3:6 28:4,11,16,17 intended 6:21 item 23:15
65:2 32:19 33:17 28:25 29:12 15:17 48:24
include 34:4 35:23 37:6,15 interest 12:2,15 judgment 17:21
7:8 8:3,16 including 9:20 40:10 44:16 16:5 28:7,7 judgments 37:17
11:9 37:7 66:6 47:11,16,17 29:10 38:16 jump 34:12
13:20 inconsistent 19:8 48:15,16,22 46:11 47:25 Justice 1:19 3:3
16:18 Incorporated 3:6 49:4,6 50:8,12 53:25 55:23,25 3:10 4:7,20,23
19:19 32:19 51:4,19,19,22 59:21,22 61:1 5:1,1,6,9,19 6:1
21:5,11 increase 11:14 52:6,11,17,18 interested 14:5 6:9 7:3,11,22
68:15 47:21 57:10 53:16 54:16,23 16:1 27:13 8:12,20 9:7,14
11:12 individual 31:10 59:11 61:23 22:7 30:13 11:7,14,22 12:4
53:6,14,19 individuals 45:24 62:10,13,15 38:18 50:25 12:21 13:9 14:3
9:24 10:11,15 60:9 limitations 49:7 64:7 67:11
17:17 10:18 11:4 16:3 knows 7:5 28:8 limited 4:25 29:7 malpractice
19:7 19:7,13 29:14 Kolassa 57:3 29:10 30:6 31:6 37:17
20:12 29:21 35:6 49:12 manage 64:21
21:6,8,23 52:16,21 53:2,5 L line 50:15,16 mandated 66:12
23:5 24:1 54:14 60:16 laid 19:20 lines 63:24 manufacturers
61:9 language 35:14 link 36:7 4:22 8:1 15:13
26:2,6 Kennedy's 11:7 55:9 list 27:8 31:23 15:17 16:13,22
27:9,20 60:12 66:21 LAPD 51:11,16 32:7,8 18:5 21:18 51:8
kept 25:18 52:24,25 53:1,3 listener 14:1 64:9,23 68:5
30:7 Kerry-McCain 53:12,13,14 67:25 manufacturing
55:22 63:3,8 lists 27:4 40:13
32:3,12 Kesselheim 8:8 larger 66:5 litigating 20:10 market 5:3,21
33:12,22 key 51:15 Laughter 41:16 little 49:20 57:14 7:15 25:19 59:7
35:6 kind 14:15 40:7 52:5 55:6 60:17 lives 37:13 marketer 7:24
38:15 54:23 law 3:12,15,25 locate 15:25 7:24
39:3,8 kinds 37:18 5:25 17:12 long 23:18 24:13 marketers 8:1
40:11 Kneedler 1:18 22:11 23:11 35:3,10 marketing 3:17
2:6 21:25 22:1 24:20,24 25:5 longest 46:1 3:20 4:1,19
42:7,12 22:4 23:10 24:5 25:15 26:17 look 32:21 39:23 5:11,16,17 6:7
24:9,18,21,25 30:18,24 48:6 48:5,25 50:18 6:21 7:20 11:20
25:10 26:1,4,7 50:1 68:9 50:20,25 53:16 14:1,16 17:11
26:19 27:15 lawyer 36:23 55:1 56:4 61:15 18:7,17 19:12
48:18 28:1,5,14,20 lawyers 35:25 61:16 20:16 21:16
29:20,24 30:8 learned 14:22 looking 16:23 22:23 23:3
51:2,10 30:15,21,23 leave 14:21 47:1 lose 55:4 33:19 34:2
52:16 31:4,19 32:1,4 leaves 22:11 lot 7:7 24:3 38:25 35:17 36:8,11
53:2,5,16 59:4 62:10 legislative 12:23 39:25 60:5 36:25 37:1,12
55:13 knew 13:14 65:24 lots 58:19 37:25 40:19
58:13,16 48:14 legislature 12:14 love 37:12,16 59:6 61:19
59:13 knock 30:25 22:7 35:25 lower 14:9,25 65:18 66:14
60:3,8,11 knocking 30:11 42:20 44:18 15:1 55:24 67:7
know 7:5,7,9,24 65:14 67:1 Lukumi 61:15 marketplace
62:9,19 11:10 15:22 legitimately 32:6 33:3 36:14,16
64:2 17:1,2 23:8 46:12 M 45:8 57:23 59:8
66:15,20 24:14,16 26:25 lesser 25:11 magazine 13:18 66:1
32:24 33:1 41:7 lesson 55:4,5,8 mail 30:3 matter 1:12
44:14 63:8 mailing 13:17 11:10,13 30:14
60:21 60:4 62:16 level 14:10 maintained McCain-Kerry
28:6,20 monitor 4:15 28:12 36:4,6,10 ordinary 64:11 37:8 49:3,15,25
34:10 monitored 65:18 36:13 37:2 Orleans 54:9 49:25 50:2
43:2 Montpelier 1:17 outrage 61:4 64:19,20
50:2 67:1 morning 3:4,4 O outraged 48:9,13 patients 3:13
motive 62:4 object 65:19 outside 39:6 12:3 37:5 49:3
43:2 N objection 59:14 overall 26:11 64:13 65:12,17
name 14:7 23:16 objectionable O'Brien 66:23 28:8 57:8
48:16 46:1,14 52:14 objective 7:23 P 56:23
28:24 31:7 obtained 21:18 page 2:2 9:21 paying 6:12
National 52:9 obviously 36:13 34:24 35:6,8,9 64:12
36:14 nature 47:25 office 48:2 68:3 38:3 49:19 53:9 pejorative 15:3
nearly 61:1 62:25 64:18 people 7:7,9,15
47:13 12:2 27:5 43:25 60:20 paid 6:11 30:4,11 39:5,5
57:17 necessary 16:16 62:25 63:2 paragraph 38:6 41:12 48:11
59:20 16:20 ones 17:23 18:2 56:11,17,18,19 49:11 50:21
need 7:1 15:19 one-on-one 29:8 56:21 60:4 63:21,22
needs 23:8 26:25 one-sided 43:2 parents 64:11 percent 47:21
57:21 67:21 opposed 40:7 65:12 66:13 62:5 63:23
newspapers 9:17 option 26:18 27:13 8:21,24 9:1,13
64:3 nine 63:9,10 opt-in 13:2 46:17 party 27:13 permitted 40:5
42:9,15 14:19 23:14 13:5,13 36:20 paternalistic person 23:13,22
nonpublic 67:6 46:7,17 58:7,9 29:11,25 35:3
NPI 56:14 3:8 22:1 32:14 7:10 9:22 14:19 personal 26:22
23:20 23:23 27:6 33:5 18:12 22:9,10
30:12,19 22:8,12,19,24 50:8 51:15 prescriber 6:11 principal 55:20
22:25 23:4 52:12 64:7,16 22:19,22,23 principle 63:25
2:4,8 26:9 27:16,22 67:11 45:4 64:21 prior 22:16 30:20
3:9 22:3 27:24 28:3,8,23 points 64:18 prescribers 40:24
29:12 31:12,14 policing 46:5 38:10 privacy 11:15,18
12:1 15:13 60:4 68:9 19:1,3,21,24 24:15 12:18,22 13:6
18:5 physicians 4:9 20:24,24 25:13 prescribes 7:4,6 23:21,22 24:2,4
25:12 26:8 38:24 27:5 50:10 7:9,12 14:19 24:10,15 25:5,6
31:8,16 39:12 57:5,12 possession 32:5 prescribing 4:13 25:23 27:22
36:8 57:13 post 30:15 6:22 7:5,16,18 30:13 37:23
40:13 physician's posts 30:24 7:19 11:15,16 38:17 39:12
66:12 11:15 28:25 Power 51:2 15:6 17:14 40:7 45:24
31:9 38:17 practice 11:21 18:12 23:2 47:25 48:25
7:1 57:4 42:1,9 48:3 57:13 67:7 55:24 58:3 60:1
19:5 25:3 PI 56:24 60:6 65:16 prescription 4:5 60:24 61:2,7
54:18 pick 59:24 practices 6:23 20:7,16 22:9 private 7:4 32:25
picked 39:22 7:20 17:14 23:8,11,12,12 37:14 38:7
Pickett 39:6 40:13,20,24 35:17 37:7,10 50:11 53:20
11:5 piece 23:19 59:9 practicing 28:8 52:21 54:17 65:3 67:17,18
pieces 62:25 preapproved 68:10 39:21
10:13,15 47:17 precedent 42:8 3:13 24:3 26:25 27:10
14:20 pitches 4:1 precedents 37:5 process 66:14
place 6:18 18:18 27:10 present 41:14 processing 37:9
48:6 65:10 preempt 56:1 presentation product 17:1
23:8 25:2 68:11 58:5 25:21 26:13 46:3 57:14
29:13 places 9:21 prefer 26:12 press 62:7 products 4:2,3
32:5 placing 5:11 37:18 39:25 pressed 19:3,19 16:1 23:3
49:5 play 16:15 preferred 27:4,7 presumably professional
53:10 player 28:23 preparer 63:14 62:19 13:18
54:17 please 3:11 preparers 63:20 prevent 4:8 5:20 professionals
60:19,21 20:22,23 22:5 prepares 62:20 10:24 30:13 22:13 37:3,4
32:17 prescribe 4:17 39:12 41:5 profile 9:15
point 18:15 20:5 48:12 prevents 39:9 40:2,3 56:17
67:14 16:7 18:21 32:2 57:1 59:19 regime 4:4
public 9:16,16 35:19 41:10 reason 32:21 42:9
46:13 47:14,22 67:4 58:9,10 63:14 58:14 59:7
35:17 pull 52:7 quick 43:13 50:12 regulation 15:2
24:1,4 purchasers 38:8 quote 35:1 57:3,9 rebuttal 2:12 23:20 25:2
25:1,5 purchasing 7:2 quoted 35:15 17:19 21:24 58:20
27:22 purpose 4:7,8,11 55:9 56:3 64:4 regulatory 43:17
32:24 5:2,4,12,14,19 quotes 56:17 receive 8:11,11 51:3 61:20
48:24 5:20,22 6:21 quoting 35:14 13:24 15:11 rehearing 21:4
9:1,11 12:5,7,9 64:10 65:13 reiterates 38:5
24:19,23 29:19 31:1 R 3:1 38:10 relates 12:22
61:7 35:23 51:23 racks 50:21,23 recognize 22:7 relating 13:13
40:6 62:6 64:19 radio 29:8 recognized 12:17 relationships
65:18 Raglan 62:1 record 4:14 6:18 6:24
46:24 6:8,10,10 9:8 random 47:16 31:23,24 53:14 rely 18:1 35:25
19:6 21:19 rap 12:19 64:17 66:25 remain 52:18
26:21 28:17,18 34:2 62:5 records 3:24 39:16 49:14
37:8 41:14 reach 15:17 54:6 20:7 37:18 61:17
23:6,6 25:12 27:13 52:15 reducing 14:13 Reporting 51:12
64:25 28:22 52:13 reading 34:24 16:5 51:16
62:15 real 53:21 55:2 reexamined reports 63:5,12
67:22,24 31:12,14 really 8:20 9:9 refer 12:14 representation
Q 23:19 29:7 reflect 51:1 8:9
37:23 quality 17:2 35:20 43:13 refusing 7:23 representatives
66:6,11 question 8:21,21 46:14 47:13 regarded 50:12 4:8,12
10:5 11:1,7 48:22 55:13,14
21:15,17,20 30:10 32:3,12 43:14 45:19 68:12
67:22,25 39:3,8,11 59:13 47:10 51:22 31:22 40:24
13:10 20:15 60:20 62:9,19 55:10 56:23 sells 10:15
67:13 65:21 66:15 Scalia 4:20,23 sense 7:4 25:6,6
restrictive 13:1,4 68:8,16 5:1,6,9,19 6:1 25:23
23:17 restricts 16:19 rule 9:20 33:11 11:22 12:4 separate 9:1
result 8:3 10:22 46:22 59:2 19:23 24:1,6,13 serve 29:18
62:13 results 10:5,20 63:20 25:22 26:2,6 set 21:13 47:1
10:7,25 66:20 67:10 47:2 35:20 43:1,5,8 sheet 12:20
returns 3:22 ruling 53:5 scientific 47:19 show 64:18
10:2,16 review 40:3 runs 54:2 second 20:5,17 8:3
44:21 20:25 21:15 shut 11:24
26:17 4:21,23 5:2,6,9 S 1:18 2:1,6 3:1 35:1,5,12 38:6 45:19 59:9,22
6:4 7:7,17 22:1 39:18 44:23 sides 17:3 45:9
15:8,18,19 sale 3:15 6:7,8 56:19 63:2 sign 30:12,15,25
29:11 32:8 16:17 17:13,25 6:20 9:1 10:7,8 secrets 17:9 signers 30:19
18:8,8 20:7 11:4 14:6,7 63:16 significant 54:1
29:19 30:4 34:8 34:4,13,15,18 sections 66:6 49:10 67:1
2:11 8:12 38:21 39:9 40:7 sales 4:8,12 8:8 see 25:20 26:8 situation 25:14
32:15 40:11 41:19 33:13,23 34:2,4 42:10 46:11 30:2
46:9 47:6,7 saying 11:22 seemingly 63:9 Smith 48:11
52:3,8 53:4,14 16:17 27:22 11:2,5,6,7,11 10:13 11:17
17:5 ROBERTS 3:3 41:14,15 54:13 35:2 38:20,23 solicitations
43:9,11 4:7 14:25 15:15 54:15,19,21,22 46:1,9,14 49:6 13:14 30:16
17:17 21:23 54:25 58:2,22 50:22 51:8 Solicitor 1:18
30:6 36:3
starts 51:19 35:13,13,15,18 subsidy 53:17 25:4 34:5 45:4
22:11,25 23:11 50:9 51:1 52:1 suits 58:4 targeted 29:7
29:17 28:22 29:16,23 55:2,9,9 56:25 20:13 50:23
61:5 30:18,23 32:5,8 57:25 60:10,13 support 66:4 tax 3:22 62:2,3
45:21 35:12,22,25 63:10,13 65:1 2:8 22:3 63:20,20
49:1,9 36:3,12,14,16 66:5,9,16,19 suppose 40:11 taxes 63:22,23
54:13 36:18,21 37:3 66:21,24 67:2 40:12 44:14 taxing 62:2
61:8 37:22,22,24 67:12 68:7 52:16 telephone 13:13
47:12 53:15 54:15,16 statute's 56:19 44:13,19 49:13 tells 60:5
54:24 56:2,13,16,19 stock 31:24 51:9 53:7,8 term 24:9
64:15 68:1 58:8,9 59:15,19 stop 5:2 44:8 56:7 58:18,21 terms 18:19
63:25 States 1:1,13,20 59:5 surprisingly testifying 12:24
35:25 36:23 straight-out 57:2 26:23 28:24 59:20
18:2 38:16 53:16 stream 18:16 thing 7:11 13:10
31:20 56:11 58:8 31:14 T 27:2 36:18
43:22 statute 4:11,24 striking 66:24 T 2:1,1 39:22 45:9
47:15 6:6 8:13,21,24 strong 36:7 tailored 13:25 50:14 61:6,6
54:10,10 8:25 9:2,12 structure 47:9 28:24 31:7 63:4
10:6,22,23 12:9 48:24 take 14:20 15:7 things 17:3 28:19
20:14 21:2,9,10 42:20 57:17 59:14 55:22 57:20
53:21,25 46:19,19 47:5 unbiased 38:10 10:8 24:4 27:11 9:9 11:23 12:8
48:1 49:12 44:16 27:12 28:4 13:3,7,18 14:16
60:12,25 67:18 unconstitutional 34:15 40:5 47:6 14:25 15:1,5,18
transmission 53:22,24 54:20 64:20 65:6,6 15:20 24:7
47:24 treated 55:18 62:8 63:13 56:16 27:24 31:3,4
32:14 treatment 65:11 understand 10:4 V 34:10,23 38:4
59:5 47:22 35:13 45:22 50:19 51:11,16 45:5 46:8,14,14
trends 4:17 60:24 59:5 61:17 48:5 49:4,6
44:6 tribal 54:10 11:12 20:14 valuable 59:12 51:24 53:2
55:22 true 28:2 36:17 42:2 51:11,16 vast 13:15 wanted 8:22,23
38:13,14 63:4,4 9:8,8,10 10:19 Vermont 1:4,17 38:24 43:22
45:19 truly 60:1 unprofessional 3:5 8:22,22 Washington 1:9
48:21 56:7 trumps 18:8 59:3 22:6,7 28:13,19 1:19,22
trust 65:10 unrestricted 3:15 33:6,11 37:3,4 wasn't 8:20
67:23 use 4:20,24 5:24 42:13 44:18 way 13:23 15:12
trying 11:3 38:11 12:16 15:3 52:23 54:4 56:2 26:10 31:24
27:20,21 57:23 58:2,3,8 18:17,19 19:12 65:14 45:13 57:7 65:5
48:11 62:5 20:15 21:16,20 Vermonters 36:9 67:20
22:12 61:11 37:25 39:24 Virginia 59:1 59:5 61:17
41:2 typify 46:22 61:4 62:14 64:7 44:24,25 24:12 33:5,17
64:12 65:8 voluntary 66:9 39:5,14 40:1
19:5 unauthorized useful 18:6 49:16 50:23
W
22:12 user 55:19 58:2,3 62:3
46:13,16 uses 6:3 8:19 65:8
want 5:24 7:25
68:1 49:19
9:21 36:13
47:21
34:24 35:8
55:25
20:5
20:5
5
2:14
48:7 61:3
36:23 37:4
36:4
47:4
36:3
52:10 9
1:5 3:5 9 38:3
1:14 3:2
52:10
68:18
64:18
13:22 36:6
9:20
1:10
2:8
