IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
BARION PERRY, :
Petitioner : No. 10-8974
v. :
NEW HAMPSHIRE. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, November 2, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
RICHARD GUERRIERO, ESQ., Concord, New Hampshire; for
Petitioner.
MICHAEL A. DELANEY, ESQ., Attorney General, Concord, New
Hampshire; for Respondent.
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
RICHARD GUERRIERO, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL A. DELANEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 28
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States,
as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondent 41
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
RICHARD GUERRIERO, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first today in Case 10-8974, Perry v. New Hampshire.
Mr. Guerriero.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD GUERRIERO
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GUERRIERO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
An eyewitness identification made under a
suggestive influence presents a unique danger of
misidentification and a miscarriage of justice. It is
that danger of misidentification which implicates due
process and requires an evaluation of the reliability of
the identification. The constitutional --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counselor, does your
position depend on police involvement at all?
MR. GUERRIERO: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm -- if a private
investigator shows a picture or -- that has no
connection to the police, a company's investigator --
MR. GUERRIERO: What I would suggest is
that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- or the news media
publishes a picture of someone that it thinks --
MR. GUERRIERO: I have a two-part answer to
that. The -- the significance of the suggestive
influence is how it affects reliability. Most of the
time that influence, the defense will allege, is from
some police activity and rightly so because they're
mostly involved and rightly so because police suspicion
is the kind of influence that would direct the witness's
attention and say that's the man.
But it's not necessarily required, and in
fact in -- one of the Federal court of appeal cases,
Dunnigan v. Keane, involved exactly that, a private
investigator, where a private investigator from a bank
showed surveillance photos to the witness and then later
the witnesses made an ID. I mean --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Guerriero, if it's
not -- if it's not limited to suggestive circumstances
created by the police, why is unreliable eyewitness
identification any different from unreliable anything
else? So, shouldn't we look at every instance of
evidence introduced in criminal cases to see if it was
reliable or not?
MR. GUERRIERO: No, Your Honor. I suggest
that eyewitness identification evidence is unique, and I
think that this Court recognized that in Wade and in the
subsequent cases, in fact described it at that time as
probably the leading cause of miscarriages of justice.
And in fact experience with the DNA exonerations that
we've seen recently in the last 10 or 15 years have
shown that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, at least for all
eyewitness testimony, there would have to be some
pretesting for reliability; is that -- is that your
contention?
MR. GUERRIERO: No, Your Honor, and I don't
think that's exactly what the Court said in Wade and the
subsequent cases. It's the combination of eyewitness
identification testimony plus the suggestive influence
which makes -- which brings it to sort of the height of
suspicion and creates the greatest risk.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And in this case, in
which category do you place the eyewitness testimony?
Is it police suggestion, or is it suggestive but not
through any manipulation on the police's part?
MR. GUERRIERO: In our case, we do not
allege any manipulation or intentional orchestration by
the police. But our position is that it appeared to the
witness, to Ms. Blandon, that Mr. Perry was in fact a
suspect, and she looked down, and there was that
suspicion.
Now, if we would have been able to have our
due process claim heard, the judge may or may not have
agreed that that was suggestive and created a risk.
But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think that our cases
which exclude or -- or require reversal when there's
eyewitness testimony impaired by the police -- you think
that's really limited to eyewitness testimony? Suppose
the police created suggestiveness in another category of
evidence. Let's say -- let's say voice evidence, that
the killer had left a message on the -- on the phone.
And the police in some manner create suggestiveness that
causes a witness to identify that as the voice of the
killer. You really think that we would say, well, this
is not eyewitness testimony; eyewitness testimony
creates a special risk? Don't you think that we would
say, whenever the police render evidence unreliable, it
-- it should be excluded?
MR. GUERRIERO: I think that may be a
separate due process claim. For example, if the
police --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly. But that -- that
impairs your argument, because if we accept your
argument for eyewitness, we should similarly accept it
for everything else. There's nothing special about
eyewitness.
MR. GUERRIERO: I -- I disagree, Your Honor.
I think that what the Court has said is that there is
something special about eyewitness identification
testimony.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I'm saying we don't
mean it.
(Laughter.)
MR. GUERRIERO: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm saying that it's
unbelievable that if the -- if the police created
testimony, not eyewitness testimony, but testimony that
was unreliable because of police suggestiveness, I think
we would throw that out as well. Don't you think so?
MR. GUERRIERO: I -- well, I think that in
any case -- and I think the Court has said this in other
circumstances, that in any case a defendant could raise
a due process claim and say, either because of the way
the prosecution handled the evidence or because of the
-- the combination of rulings on evidence, that there
was a due process violation that implicated fundamental
fairness.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In this case, suppose that
the police talked to this -- to the lady that was in the
-- in the apartment and saw the thing out the window and
said: We -- we think we've solved this case, but you
can't look at this man. We don't want to you look at
this man. Don't tell us. We're not going to let you
look out that window.
It seems to me that the defendant might have
a due process argument that the police interfered, that
she couldn't say, right when he was there, that's not
the man. I don't know what you want the police to do in
this case. It seems to me it would have been (a)
risking this argument from the defendant and (b)
improper police conduct not to ask the woman, is this
the man?
MR. GUERRIERO: I disagree, Your Honor. If
the police wanted to ask her to make an identification,
they could have done a line-up procedure or a photo
line-up procedure fairly promptly that would be distinct
from and much more fair than the show-up at the scene.
And there was no emergency or exigency here that would
require a show-up.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about -- what about
unreliable eyewitness testimony in favor of the
defendant? Let's assume the same suggestiveness that
causes you to exclude it when it's been introduced by
the prosecution, but here it's being introduced by the
defendant to show that it was somebody else, okay? Is
that going to be excluded?
MR. GUERRIERO: It may be excluded under the
rules of evidence, but the Due Process Clause doesn't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think it should be
excluded under the rules of evidence? If you say it's
so unreliable -- this is a one-way door?
MR. GUERRIERO: The Due Process Clause --
JUSTICE SCALIA: All of the evidence that --
that causes the defendant to be convicted is excluded,
but -- but any -- any evidence -- any evidence on the
other side is not?
MR. GUERRIERO: Well, the defendant is
obviously not trying to deprive the State of its liberty
in the same way that the State is trying to deprive the
defendant of his liberty at trial. So, the Due Process
Clause would not apply in that sense. That's not to say
that there wouldn't be evidentiary grounds for the State
to raise that objection.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but you see, when --
when it's the State that causes the unreliability, I can
see why it is a -- a ground that can be invoked only by
the defendant. But when you come up with a theory that
it doesn't matter whether the State was the cause or
not, I don't know why it wouldn't work both ways, that
the evidence is inherently unreliable, and it ought to
be excluded whether it helps the defendant or hurts the
defendant.
MR. GUERRIERO: It --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Once you take the State out
of the mix, there's no reason to limit it to the -- to
the defendant.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You -- you answered that
due process works only in favor of the defendant.
MR. GUERRIERO: That's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not in favor of the
State.
MR. GUERRIERO: That's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that is your only --
your only distinction. You are saying this is a one --
one-way --
MR. GUERRIERO: That's right, Justice
Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- street.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --
JUSTICE ALITO: I take it from your -- I
take it from your answers that simple unreliability is
not enough. If there's testimony --
MR. GUERRIERO: That's right.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- eyewitness testimony that
seems of very dubious unreliability, that cannot be
excluded.
MR. GUERRIERO: That's right. I --
JUSTICE ALITO: At least not on that ground.
MR. GUERRIERO: That's right, and I might
even go further.
JUSTICE ALITO: Something more is needed;
suggestiveness is needed.
MR. GUERRIERO: That's right.
JUSTICE ALITO: But suggestiveness doesn't
require any police involvement? Is that right?
MR. GUERRIERO: That's right. And --
JUSTICE ALITO: Can you just define what you
mean by "suggestiveness"?
MR. GUERRIERO: Well, I think the Court has
given examples. If it's effectively a show-up or a
show-up -- the example in Foster involved a couple of
different kinds of suggestiveness. One was where the
police did a line-up where the defendant was the only
common person.
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, but those are all
situations where the police is involved -- the police
are involved.
MR. GUERRIERO: Right. The nonpolice
examples of suggestiveness that rise to the due process
level are mostly going to be show-ups. The example in
Dunnigan v. Keane was a private investigator showing --
from the bank. They had an ATM card that was stolen
from the person, and he --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what if you have
cross-racial identification? Would that qualify on the
ground that studies have shown that those may be less
reliable?
MR. GUERRIERO: That may be a separate
ground to move for a jury instruction or for an expert.
I'm not sure that -- we certainly don't argue here and
it wasn't argued below that that's a separate due
process ground.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why not? I mean, that's
the point. Why not? What about an eyewitness
identification from 200 yards? You know, normally you'd
leave it to the jury, and the jury would say that's very
unlikely. But you want to say it's -- it has to be
excluded, and if it's not, you retry the person. What
is magic about suggestiveness as opposed to all of the
other matters that could cause eyewitness identification
to be wrong?
MR. GUERRIERO: Well, two answers to that,
Your Honor. First, it's not that these things are --
are always excluded, and in fact the Court has set a
very high bar. I mean, the standard is this evidence is
excluded only if it's very substantially likely to lead
to a misidentification. So --
JUSTICE ALITO: I understand that, but I
need to know what you mean by "suggestiveness." What
does that mean? Can you just give me a definition of
it?
MR. GUERRIERO: It is conduct or
circumstances that point -- that tell the witness that's
the man. And, most commonly, it would be showing a
single photograph or presenting the person as a suspect
or it appearing, as in this case, that the -- the
defendant was a suspect. And that's essentially how the
Court has defined it, as conduct that says that's the
man.
So, there may be some things that the
defense argues that are suggestive, and the trial court
looks at it and says, you know, that's a very slight
suggestion. You say he is the only guy in the line-up
with a mustache. I don't even -- I'm not going any
further. I don't think that's sufficient suggestion.
That doesn't qualify as saying that's the man.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But just to repeat Justice
Scalia's question, once you're not talking about police
suggestiveness, once you're talking about suggestiveness
that arises from non-State conduct, why should we be
focused on suggestiveness as opposed to any other cause
of unreliability?
MR. GUERRIERO: Well, because that's what --
my first reason is that that's what the Court focused on
in Wade as -- as the main danger.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, the Court was focusing
on police suggestiveness. That's the context of all our
cases. Now, you might say, well, look, there's a bigger
problem, and the bigger problem is the unreliability of
identifications generally, but that doesn't relate to
suggestiveness per se.
MR. GUERRIERO: Well, I think our position
is in between there. We're not saying that there's a
due process right to have eyewitness evidence excluded
generally without some suggestiveness. What we are
saying is that if the suggestion comes from a nonpolice
source or if it, as in this case, involved the police
but their involvement was unintentional, it's just
accidental, that that suggestiveness should still be
considered because --
JUSTICE BREYER: What does that mean?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you distinguish the --
do you distinguish the husband's situation? He was an
eyewitness too, but there was a motion to suppress her
testimony. Is that an example where there's an
eyewitness testimony but no suggestiveness? Why didn't
you move to suppress the husband's statement?
MR. GUERRIERO: Trial counsel simply did not
move to suppress that testimony. I don't have a good
explanation, and, to be frank, I would have filed the
motion to suppress his testimony as well.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, you'd put them both
in the same category?
MR. GUERRIERO: I would have.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why isn't it -- this
may be -- just, again, following up on Justice Alito's
question, but there's always a degree of suggestiveness.
It's not like the person is, you know, picked randomly
off the street and saying, you know, do you know this
person? It's in the context of an investigation. The
person has some contact with it. So, there's always
some suggestiveness that, well, this person might have
something to do with what went on.
MR. GUERRIERO: That's right. And if there
-- if it rises to the level of what the Court has given
as examples of a show-up or the same defendant appearing
in a line-up or something else that says that's the man,
then that raises a red flag. And it's not a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But whenever --
whenever the witness is asked, at least there's a
suggestion that this might be the man. And I don't know
why you would think that's any greater than this is the
man. The police don't come up usually and say, this is
the person that we think did it; is that who you saw?
They say, did you see this guy?
MR. GUERRIERO: Actually, I disagree with
that aspect of your question, Your Honor. And in fact I
think the proper police procedure in certainly the
police departments that I'm familiar with will instruct
the witness that -- do not assume that anyone that we
think is a suspect is in this line-up. And that's in
the standard witness instructions, and they may even do
multiple line-ups where they say, okay, we're going to
show you three sets of eight, and the suspect -- or
there may or may not be a suspect in any of them. We
just want you to look at this set and see if anyone --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what about a
situation like the one we had here, where you're not
talking about a line-up?
MR. GUERRIERO: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you're talking
about the scene of a crime, and the police says, do you
know this person, did you see this person, or anything
else? That in itself, any type of identification in the
course of an investigation, I think you would have to
say is suggestive, because the person is not picked up
randomly.
MR. GUERRIERO: It is, but the key is that
it's not the suggestion that results in exclusion. It's
the suggestion that raises the red flag that allows the
defendant to say, would the trial court please evaluate
this according to the standards?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, this is --
again, this is just following up, I guess. But I
remember in law school one of the things in criminal
law, the professor says, all right, everybody be quiet.
And then a certain amount of time goes by, and then he
starts asking people, well, how much time went by? And
people -- some people say 4 minutes, some people say,
you know, 1 minute. And it turns out, if I'm
remembering correctly, to be a lot shorter than most
people think.
So, that's at least, the point was trying to
be made anyway, at least as unreliable as eyewitness
testimony. So, your argument would have to cover that,
wouldn't it?
MR. GUERRIERO: I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You know, how long
were you there before this individual came into the
shop? The person says, I was there for 5 minutes. And
that ruins the person's alibi, when it turns out, you
know, study after study would say, you know, it really
was 45 seconds or 1 minute.
MR. GUERRIERO: I think it's important to
look back at what the Court said in Wade and in fact how
what the Court said in Wade has been borne out. Of
course, there's aspects of unreliability to any kind of
evidence. Somebody could come and claim that there's
issues with false confessions or issues with forensic
evidence. I think last term somebody made a claim --
tried to assert a claim regarding DNA evidence that was
akin to an eyewitness identification claim.
But the point is that this kind of evidence
was singled out by the Court and recognized as having
particular dangers, and it's been borne out by the
studies, not psychological --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But, again, that was in
the context of procedures that the police had
instituted.
MR. GUERRIERO: It may be that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And your -- and your
rationale goes much beyond it. In a way, you're
infringing on the province of the jury. I don't usually
like to reminisce, but there was a case I had where a
prosecution witness was very, very certain, all too
certain. And I said: Do you ever take your wife out to
dinner or go out to dinner with friends? And he said:
Oh, yes. I said: Has it ever happened to you that
midway in the meal you say, is that our waiter? And
you've seen -- the waiter has brought you the menu, he
has taken your order, he has brought your food, and you
were under no stress at the time.
(Laughter.)
MR. GUERRIERO: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And there was good light.
So, you teach the jury this way. And you're
just -- you're just usurping the province of the jury,
it seems.
MR. GUERRIERO: I don't think so, Your
Honor. I mean, we're -- what -- I think what this Court
has said is that this is a special category of evidence
that has to be red-flagged by or can be red-flagged by
the defense for the trial judge to look at it and say --
JUSTICE BREYER: What is --
MR. GUERRIERO: -- on a case by -- I'm
sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: Go ahead. You were saying
on a case that all you want to do is red-flag it for the
judge.
MR. GUERRIERO: And then the trial judge
would look at it and in the rare case where he says it's
very substantially likely, which we agree is a high
standard --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, how does
that differ from what exists in I think every State and
certainly in the Federal Rules in Rule 403? The judge
may exclude evidence if its relevance is outweighed by
its prejudice or misleading the jury. So, why, in any
instance where you think that this statement about to
come in is unreliable for various reasons, you say:
Judge, will you please look please look at Rule 403? I
have some experts over here and whatever else you want
that would show that this is misleading to the jury.
For all the reasons you have said in your brief, right?
All right. So -- so, since that is already
the law and it does apply to every piece of evidence,
including all the things we've been talking about, what
is it that you want to change?
MR. GUERRIERO: Well, to answer the first
part of your question, what's different about this
evidence is that --
JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't say what's
different about it. I'm not looking for a difference.
I'm looking -- I'm saying they're all the same. And,
indeed, we do what you want right now. It's called Rule
403 in the Federal system. What I'm asking you is what
is it you want done, since all you want is the judge to
look at it carefully, that is not done at this moment?
MR. GUERRIERO: The analysis under 403,
which New Hampshire of course has as well, will accord a
certain weight and value to the opportunity of counsel
to cross-examine the witness and to make arguments to
the jury. And unlike any other kind of evidence, this
Court has said, precious though it is, the right of
cross-examination does not always --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but, judges don't, I'm
sure -- I'm not 100 percent sure; you'd have to ask a
trial judge. But I am sure there are instances where
judges say under Rule 403: I conclude it is misleading
and it is prejudicial and it can't be made up for;
therefore, I exclude it.
All right? That happens. Now, since that's
what you want the judge to do, I repeat my question:
What is the difference between what you're asking for
and what already exists in the law?
MR. GUERRIERO: The --
JUSTICE BREYER: Unless -- well, go ahead.
MR. GUERRIERO: I'm sorry.
The difference is that under a normal 403
analysis, when I told the judge, when I said she never
could describe his face, she couldn't even say what
clothes he was wearing, the judge will respond to me and
say, that's fine; that's all great fodder for
cross-examination. But the difference with this kind of
evidence is that it's not just ---
JUSTICE BREYER: Whoa, wait. Let me stop
you there, because now what you seem to be saying is it
isn't the case that you simply want the judge to look at
this with care; rather, you want the judge to change her
result. You want sometimes this to be excluded where
under 403 it is sometimes not excluded. All right.
Now, I asked, if that's what you want, that's a
different matter. That's a substantive standard. And
so, you're proposing a different substantive standard,
and I want to know what it is.
MR. GUERRIERO: It's -- it's the standard
that this Court has established: If it's reasonably --
reasonably likely or substantially likely to lead to a
risk of misidentification at trial. Very substantially
likely.
JUSTICE ALITO: But that would be really a
great change from the way trials are now conducted,
wouldn't it? Let me give you this example: A victim is
raped, and the victim doesn't really have a very good
opportunity to see the perpetrator. It's dark, the
person has a mask and so forth. A couple of weeks go
by, and the victim reads on article in the paper that
says so-and-so has been arrested for a rape in another
part of the city. There's a picture of that person in
the paper. And the victim says that's the person who --
who raped me.
Now, you want to make it possible for the
judge to say to the -- that victim may not testify and
identify the person -- that that person -- that the
victim says was the perpetrator of the rape, on the
ground that the newspaper picture was suggestive, even
though there wasn't any police involvement, and when you
look at all the circumstances, the identification is
unreliable.
Now, maybe that's a good system, but that is
a drastic change, is it not, from the way criminal
trials are now conducted?
MR. GUERRIERO: Well, it's certainly not the
change from what the law is in the Federal circuits that
we cited. And I would also point out that in one of
the --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you know of cases like
that in which the judge has said that eyewitness
identification cannot come in?
MR. GUERRIERO: In Thigpen v. Cory, which is
a Sixth Circuit case, the court said -- in fact, they
specifically used the phrase "police machinations" --
that this did not arise from police machinations. It
was basically happenstance in that case that the witness
was -- the witness identified the defendant, and that
was excluded as unreliable.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we've said in our
case, Neil v. Biggers -- that was a rape case, and we
allowed it. We allowed the eyewitness.
MR. GUERRIERO: Well -- and I think the
Court said in all its cases, and in particular in
Simmons, that each case --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And, in fact, we said that
it was unnecessarily suggestive but that it was still
reliable.
MR. GUERRIERO: And it may be. I mean, it
may -- you could have an extremely -- you could have a
-- the police could do a show-up intending to produce an
ID, but if the witness got a very good look at the
person, was calm, was maybe a police officer like in
Brathwaite, and the court said, we don't care how
deliberate this -- and even if there's manipulation, we
don't care how much of that there is, we find it's
reliable here.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Suppose that there were some
other category of testimony which proved even more
unreliable than the category that you're talking about.
Let's say that it turned out, study after study after
study, that jailhouse informants lie. And so, the
testimony of jailhouse informants is likely to be just
completely unreliable, to, you know, double as much as
eyewitness testimony. Same rule for that?
MR. GUERRIERO: I think it would be a very
high burden for the defense to meet there, but if the
finding was that there are times that a witness, that --
like in the eyewitness situation, where the witness
truly believes that they're identifying the right
person, but they are actually not and it could result in
a miscarriage of justice, then I do believe fundamental
fairness requires the Court to say due process doesn't
allow that evidence.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. Well, now we're
talking about -- now we are setting up a standard that
applies outside eyewitness testimony. It's just
testimony that we find to be -- categories of testimony
that we find to be extremely unreliable will be subject
to this new due process red flag. Is that right?
MR. GUERRIERO: Well, I don't think so, Your
Honor, but more for a factual reason in that the Court
said in 1967 that this is the leading cause of
miscarriage of justice. The studies and -- not just
studies, but the transcripts and records of actual
trials.
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, I understand you have
very good empirical evidence which should lead us all to
wonder about the reliability of eyewitness testimony.
I'm just suggesting that eyewitness testimony is not the
only kind of testimony which people can do studies on
and find that it's more unreliable than you would think.
MR. GUERRIERO: Well, it may -- if somebody
else came along and said we've done a study and we find
this kind of evidence, that in 75 percent of the
wrongful convictions, this evidence contributed to the
miscarriage of justice, then I would think the Court
should take a look at that. But I don't think any other
evidence matches that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about all the -- all
the other safeguards that you have? I mean, you can ask
the judge to tell the jury be careful; eyewitness
testimony is often unreliable. You can point that out
in cross-examination --
MR. GUERRIERO: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- ask all those
questions. You can say something about it in your
summation to the jury. And, as Justice Breyer brought
up, you have the evidence rule that says if the
prejudicial value outweighs probative value, that the
judge can say, I'm not going to let it in.
Why aren't all those safeguards enough?
MR. GUERRIERO: If all of those safeguards
were enough, even when the police made --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, leaving aside the
police --
MR. GUERRIERO: Okay.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- because, there,
there's an interest in deterrence, in deterring the
police from manipulating evidence.
MR. GUERRIERO: I don't think deterrence is
the primary basis of the Court's cases, Your Honor,
because the Court has said that if it proves to be
reliable, no matter how manipulative the police were,
this evidence comes in. So, the basis of the rule is
not primarily deterrence; it's the risk of an unfair
trial and the risk of a miscarriage of justice.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It is a difference
between --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it seems to me --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- suggestive and
suggested by the police.
MR. GUERRIERO: I'm sorry, Your Honor, I --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The -- if the suggestion
comes from the police, then the evidence will be
excluded. If the suggestion comes from some place else,
unless we change the rules --
MR. GUERRIERO: Well, I think that that's
a --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- it would be admitted.
MR. GUERRIERO: I mean, I think that that's
a -- that's a tricky issue to consider, because
suggestion coming from the police is different from
manipulation. And if -- if the rule is unintended
suggestion from the police implicates due process, then
Perry was entitled to a due process analysis, because
the unintended suggestion here was apparent police
suspicion as he stood there.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. GUERRIERO: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General Delaney.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL A. DELANEY
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. DELANEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
An eyewitness identification implicates due
process concerns only when the police arrange a
confrontation to elicit a witness's identification of a
suspect and use unnecessarily suggestive techniques that
skew the fact-finding process. The central concern --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now we've changed the
language of Wade when it talks about intentional or
unintentional. And you're suggesting that police
manipulation always has to be intentionally suggestive?
MR. DELANEY: I'm not --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Even if the policeman
tells you he wasn't really thinking or focusing on a
distinguishing characteristic in the line-up?
MR. DELANEY: That may play a role, Justice
Sotomayor, but only in a limited sense, and not in the
way the Petitioner is suggesting we look at
unintentional conduct. First, for the due process
inquiry to trigger, there must be an arranged
confrontation of a suspect and a witness by the police.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me what
you think would have happened here? There was a reason
the police asked this defendant to stay put. They
didn't want him to leave the scene, correct?
MR. DELANEY: That -- that's correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In your judgment -- I
think Justice Kennedy hit the nail on the head. My
suspicion is that at some point they would have asked
the witnesses in the building and engaged in a show-up.
What's so different between intentionally doing the
show-up and holding the defendant in the back yard
standing there next to a police officer, so that anyone
who wants to -- like this woman, who wants to find the
guy, can just point to that one? What's the difference?
MR. DELANEY: The difference in this case is
the role that the police played in bringing about
potential suggestion under your hypothetical. What the
Due Process Clause is concerned about is the role of the
police in essentially stacking the deck, putting their
thumb on the scale and skewing the fact-finding process.
It goes to the integrity of the process --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. I mean, the way not
to skew it was to put him in the police car and just let
him sit there in the dark. So, they intentionally made
him wait at the scene of the crime.
I'm not talking about whether this was
necessary or unnecessary, because I think that a
perfectly good argument could be made that the police
acted reasonably and necessarily. All right? It makes
no sense to move a defendant that far from the scene of
a crime if you're not sure he's the one who committed
the crime, he or she.
But I'm going to the question of how do we
define, if we write this opinion, manipulation without
getting into a mens rea type analysis and adding yet
another layer to Biggers?
MR. DELANEY: Well, first, I don't think you
need to go there in this case. You can simply say that,
based on the factual findings of the State court, the
police did not induce any type of show-up --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's not -- we face
that problem anyway, even if we -- whether or not we
decide in this case that it doesn't matter that the
police manipulated it, we're always going to have the
problem of when has there been police manipulation;
right?
MR. DELANEY: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, that -- that's not
a creation of this -- of this case.
MR. DELANEY: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I -- I would guess that
in the case you're talking about, just telling the
person to stay where he is, is not -- now, it would be
different if -- if the defendant was -- was caught two
blocks away and the police bring him back to the scene
of the crime and make him stand there so that the woman
can see him from the window. That's quite different.
MR. DELANEY: It is quite different. And
Stovall tells us that the test is an objective one. We
look at the totality of the circumstances to determine
whether there has been suggestive conduct.
Now, in that regard --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When you say
that's -- when you say that's different, you're not --
you're not suggesting that that would be suggestive, are
you?
MR. DELANEY: No, I'm not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because presumably,
that's the same argument -- that's for the jury and the
counsel. They can say during cross-examination the guy
was two blocks away, you know, and wasn't it only
because the police brought him back that you -- you
know, all of that. I don't see what difference it makes
in terms of whether you have a suppression hearing
before the trial.
MR. DELANEY: That's correct, Mr. Chief
Justice. It would not make a difference in that regard.
And on the facts of this case, we do have clear factual
findings that this police officer in no way -- in no way
induced this witness to move towards the window and
identify a suspect who just happened to be standing next
to a police officer.
If the concern under due process in this
area has been a deterrence rationale, which this Court
has stated in both Neil v. Biggers and in Manson v.
Brathwaite, that must be the guiding principle.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, it's both, right,
General Delaney? I mean, the Court has certainly talked
about deterrence, but the Court also has very
substantial discussions in all of these opinions about
reliability. And from the criminal defendant's point of
view, it doesn't really much matter whether the
unreliability is caused by police conduct or by
something else.
So -- so, tell me a little bit why you think
the police conduct here -- you know, that has to be
there in every case?
MR. DELANEY: That is true, Justice Kagan,
that -- that the opinions have discussed both issues.
And I would offer two considerations. First, to the
extent that the courts have talked about reliability as
the linchpin or the likelihood of misidentification
playing a role, they have only done that read in context
within and only after an unnecessarily suggestive
circumstance has been applied.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I think that that's not
right. I mean, the reason we want to deter this conduct
is because the conduct results in misidentifications, in
unreliable testimony. That's the reason that deterrence
is an important goal, is because this conduct leads to
unreliable testimony.
MR. DELANEY: That is correct, and if we
expand that out and we apply that rationale to the
circumstances of a case not involving police activity,
we lose that deterrence rationale. There is no
deterrence involved in a suggestive circumstance that
does not involve the police. Civilians are not going to
be repeat players in this system.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And what you're -- what
you're saying, I take it, in the answer to Justice
Kagan, was that there's really a two-part step. First,
was the police procedure unnecessarily suggestive? And
then if it was, are there other reliability -- was
reliability impaired?
So, you go -- you ask both questions.
MR. DELANEY: And that is the Biggers test.
And if we looked at reliability further as sort of the
touchstone of our due process inquiry, we would need to
misplace completely the role of examining whether the
suggestive circumstances are unnecessary. An -- an
inquiry into necessity only makes sense in the context
of a police investigation or police work. And if we
look at Stovall, certainly there's an example of a case
that was a show-up, where this Court said that, despite
the clearly suggestive circumstances, that show-up was
imperative and necessary because the witness may have
been about to die.
The Court did not conduct a reliability
analysis. So, if reliability is the linchpin, it puts
the Stovall holding in question, and really Stovall
would be undermined.
JUSTICE ALITO: What you seem to -- what
you're saying -- what you're saying seems to suggest
that the rule we're talking about here is really not an
aspect of due process per se, but, like the Fourth
Amendment exclusionary rule, it's a special due process
exclusionary rule that is meant to deter conduct that
could result in a constitutional violation.
Is that right?
MR. DELANEY: I -- I think that's correct,
Justice Alito. And the analogy I would use would be to
your perjury cases. In Mooney, you have clearly set a
due process standard that prevents police or prosecutors
from knowingly using false evidence. And the concern
there is how the police will skew the fact-finding
process. Stovall and the identification cases are very
similar to that.
Our concern, in essence, is that the police
through unnecessary suggestion in that circumstance are
going to skew the fact-finding process and, in this
instance, in essence, create a false or altered memory.
JUSTICE ALITO: If -- if the exclusionary
aspect of this is not part of due process itself, then
doesn't it follow that what due process requires is
reliability? So, doesn't that mean that -- that the
Petitioner's argument is correct, the due process
standard is simply reliability, not suggestiveness?
MR. DELANEY: It's -- the standard is not
reliability, Justice Alito. The standard for due
process in this area is the use of orchestrated police
suggestion. In --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what about cases
with inflammatory evidence, too many lurid photos or
testimony that ignites prejudice in the community?
That's -- that's a -- that's reliability.
MR. DELANEY: That is, and we have both
constitutional and non-constitutional tools and
procedures right now to address that. At the base, we
require prosecutors, under Jackson v. Virginia, to have
some minimum level of evidence so that a rational trier
of fact can establish guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
Above that, under the Sixth Amendment, we
provide tools and procedures that allow a defendant to
assess the reliability of evidence through
cross-examination and summation and the right to
counsel. And, beyond that, we have non-constitutional
sources under the rules of evidence that are
specifically designed to assess the relevance and the
reliability of the evidence. But if we go before that
and say that the Due Process Clause, after all that, has
some additional standing in -- in your jurisprudence to
assess reliability, we really have gone to a very
different place.
JUSTICE ALITO: You have two cases. You
have Mr. Perry's case; then you have another case that's
very similar. In fact, it's identical, except that in
that instance the police officer talking to the witness
said, would you take a look out the window and see if
you recognize anybody?
Now, from the perspective of the defendants,
the cases are -- seem -- as far as whether they get a
fair trial, the cases are identical; are they not? The
evidence is the same. The suggestiveness is the same.
MR DELANEY: No, Justice Alito. Those cases
are quite different. And to the extent we did have
objective evidence that the police here had in some way
brought that woman to the window to, in essence, conduct
a show-up, then we may have triggered the first prong of
Biggers. And the court would then be required to do two
things: First, to determine whether the circumstances
were suggestive and, independent of that, also determine
whether it was necessary or not, depending on the
circumstances of the investigation.
So, if in fact the police officer had
directed the witness to the window, there may be at
least grounds for the Biggers and Manson analysis to
come into play. These facts are very different from
that.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I'm not sure you
answered Justice Alito's questions about why there
should be this difference between these two cases. Now,
you might want to say that where police conduct is
involved, the chances of an unreliable identification
are greater. Or you may want to say something else.
But the question is: If we're focused on reliability,
why are those two cases any different?
MR. DELANEY: Well, if we do look back, to
determine whether the circumstances involving the police
are any more -- of more serious concern, if we look back
to Wade, this Court did talk about the unique role of
police suggestion in this context of confrontations, and
it specifically focused on the manner and the degree of
suggestion in which the manner that police or
prosecution present a witness, present a witness to a
suspect, what impact that can have.
That unique aspect of police suggestibility,
the fact that a police officer when it brings someone
forward is going to influence a witness to a high
degree, does play a role and is the grounds upon which
the Stovall cases have been built.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, tell me -- they gave
the hypothetical of the police pointing out the
defendant out the window. But earlier you said it might
be a different case if the defendant was two blocks away
and they brought him back. Same scenario. They do
that, bring him back two blocks; make him stand at the
scene of the crime; and go upstairs, talk to the woman
and she spontaneously says it's the guy standing over
there. That would entitle the defendant to a Wade
motion? To a Wade hearing?
MR. DELANEY: You would look at the
totality of the circumstances. And to the extent from
an objective standpoint it could be demonstrated that
the police intentionally brought that witness back to
the scene --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We're now -- we're now
at mens rea again. So, what has surprised me about this
case is in some ways the way the State court wrote this,
because if the State court had simply said something
like there was no unnecessary show-up here, they were
just holding someone until they could figure out what
happened, there was no suggestiveness by the police
because the woman pointed out the window, throw out the
motion, we wouldn't be here. The argument has become
something else now because you're trying to define a
level of intent on the part of the police to create
unreliability that I think just complicates the inquiry.
MR. DELANEY: And I -- and, Justice
Sotomayor, I'm not trying to create that complication.
And, in fact, I would -- I would reference the State
court decision a little bit differently. It did ground
its holding specifically in a finding that there were no
sort of suggestive techniques at play here and no
inducement. The trial court order very specifically
said it disagrees with the show-up characterization,
that the witness had pointed out the Petitioner without
any inducement from the police officer; the officer did
not direct the witness's attention to the window, and
the officer did not ask whether a man in the parking lot
was the man who broke into the cars.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But I think that --
MR. DELANEY: On those facts, that can
dispose of this case without getting into the issue of
mens rea.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, what's happened is
that your briefing and your counter's briefing is
broader than I think needs to be on the facts of this
case. But putting that aside, you've addressed this as
the need for police manipulation. If you define it that
way, then we do get into a mens rea discussion rather
than what I think Biggers and Wade were about, which is
are the circumstances created by the police
unnecessarily suggestive.
MR. DELANEY: Yes. And I agree with you
that the inquiry under the -- under the first prong of
Biggers is just that. It's an objective inquiry based
on the totality of the circumstances.
If there are no further questions -- because
the defendant's conviction was the product of a fair
trial, because the State court properly applied this
Court's jurisprudence and precedent in the area of
eyewitness identifications, and because the Petitioner's
proposed rule would markedly expand this Court's due
process jurisdiction, we respectfully request that the
State court judgment be affirmed.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Saharsky.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MS. SAHARSKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
A due process inquiry is required only when
there's a police-arranged confrontation in order to
obtain an identification and then the police
unnecessarily suggest that a certain suspect is guilty.
And that's because, as the State has said, the Court's
central concern in these cases is the State putting a
thumb on the scales, gaining an unfair advantage. Just
as, as Justice Scalia said, the State can't create a
false document and introduce it at trial, it can't
manipulate someone's memory and then use that evidence
to prove guilt at trial.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, do you mean to say, Ms.
Saharsky, that there can never be a due process
violation from the admission of unreliable evidence?
Assuming that the State has not created that evidence,
has not produced that evidence, but the State knows that
the evidence is unreliable or has a very substantial
chance of being so, that that can never be a due process
violation?
MS. SAHARSKY: I'm saying that's where the
Court's cases are now. The State can't knowingly
introduce perjured testimony, but you're not talking
about perjured, knowingly perjured, testimony.
If the question is just unreliable, the
Court has said on numerous occasions -- it's rejected
claims like that and said the Constitution doesn't
protect to ensure all evidence is reliable. It provides
a process by which the court can test reliability
through cross-examination, confrontation, et cetera.
The Court has -- and that was in Crawford.
The Court has also said -- and if I could
just add one more thing -- in the due process context,
that where the check comes in is in Jackson v. Virginia,
that the verdict has to have enough evidence to be
supported, each element of the crime, beyond a
reasonable doubt that a rational jury could find it.
So, that is a due process check.
But where the Court's cases stand today, the
Court has not found, so far as we can tell, a case where
it said that the mere introduction of unreliable
evidence would violate the Due Process Clause. And
every time it's been confronted with a claim like that,
in Dowling, for example, in Colorado v. Connelly, the
Court has rejected such a claim.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'll give you an extreme
example. The extreme example is where an identification
has been produced by torture, but the torture has been
by a non-State actor. Same answer?
MS. SAHARSKY: That is an extreme example.
There are many reasons why (a) the prosecution would
never introduce that kind of evidence to begin with and
(b) that there would be other checks on the process in
addition to the confrontation and cross-examination
types of things that we talked about.
There would be a check on the process
through Brady and Giglio, for example, that if the
government knew that those were the circumstances of the
identification, they would have to turn that evidence
over to the other side. There would also be checks in
terms of the trial process if the government actually
put on evidence like that. So, it is -- it is very
unlikely that such a thing would happen.
We're not saying that the Court has to hold
in this case that due process could never play a role
there. But what we're saying here is this is very
routine, run-of-the-mill evidence. Someone who saw what
happened and wants to come into court and tell the jury
that. And, as Justice Kennedy noted, you know, what
Petitioner is asking for here is to take all of those
away from the jury, really usurping the jury function
and having these mini-trials where the court itself is
trying to decide reliability.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It is interesting. I was
trying to find a case where some other class of evidence
was excluded because it's unreliable. And as --
Thompson v. Louisville, as you say, is just insufficient
evidence, and that's different. Inflammatory evidence
might be an example.
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes. I mean, that's
different because --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Lurid photos or something
like that.
MS. SAHARSKY: I mean, there you have, first
of all, a separate constitutional provision of an
impartial jury, and you have you a direct influence upon
the jury. So, it's not just unreliable evidence being a
due process problem. You have this separate Sixth
Amendment protection, and then you have it acting
directly on the jury. So, we think that's a different
case. In the due process context, where the Court's
cases have really focused is on the State tilting the
scales, the State corrupting the process by knowingly
introducing perjured testimony or by, for example,
refusing to disclose material exculpatory evidence.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think there were some
early cases when fingerprint testimony couldn't come in,
when fingerprint technology was just new. I don't know
if those were due process or not.
MS. SAHARSKY: I can't say. I mean, when
you look -- when look at the Court's more current cases,
though, to the extent that the Court has heard arguments
like this evidence is too unreliable, we need a special
Constitutional rule, for example, in Ventris, with
respect to jailhouse snitches, the Court rejected that
argument. When the Court was told in Colorado v.
Connelly there were concerns about reliability, it said,
no, reliability is up to the jury, and it uses the State
rules of evidence, and this Court's not going to be a
rulemaking organ for rules of procedure. The
Constitution puts in place the various checks on the
process: compulsory process, cross-examination, et
cetera. And then outside of that, it's really the role
of the States to mold the trial process.
JUSTICE ALITO: I was intrigued by what your
brief said about Federal Rule of Evidence 403. Do you
think that a Federal judge under that rule may exclude
the testimony of a witness on the ground that the
witness is, in the judgment of the trial judge,
completely unbelievable?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I mean you would need
to meet the standard of Rule 403, which is that the --
the probative value of the witness would be
substantially outweighed by unfair prejudice. I think
it is unlikely that evidence would -- of an eyewitness,
which the Court has said, particularly in cases like
Biggers and Manson, is fairly probative, important
evidence; the Court wanted to let it in, even in the
circumstances of where you know, the police played a
role in manipulation. So, probably, no, the Court
wouldn't -- wouldn't take the evidence --
JUSTICE ALITO: But you think in theory that
could be done? So, if you put on a cooperating witness
in the case and this witness has made a hundred
inconsistent statements previously and has been
convicted of perjury, that the judge could just say you
can't put that witness on because that person is -- is a
liar, and I'm not going to have the witness testify in
my courtroom?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I mean, Rule 403 isn't
talking about whether evidence is true or false. It's
talking about unfair prejudice to the jury, unfair
prejudice being -- outweighing the probative value of
the testimony. So, you know, I think it would be a call
for the judge in that individual case. I don't know
that that -- that that kind of argument has been made
very often.
But it's not just that trial protection;
there are numerous trial protections outside of the
constitutional limits that the States have put into
place specifically with respect to eyewitness
identification testimony. For example, there are
special jury instructions that most States use, and New
Hampshire used special jury instructions here. And
there's something that's really notable about these
instructions, which is that what Petitioner wants is,
when the jury has made a determination here, looking at
factors like how far was the witness away from the
person, how long was it before -- between the crime and
when she made the identification, the jury heard all of
those factors, heard argument on it, was instructed on
those things, and it made a determination. And what
Petitioner wants is for a trial court -- this Court,
after the fact -- to use those exact same factors and
come to a different conclusion.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was the -- was the Daubert
case, our expert witness case where you have to have a
threshold showing -- was that due process or was that
just -- that was just rule of evidence.
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes, it was just interpreting
Rule of Evidence 702. So, you know, at the end of the
day, what -- what Petitioner is really asking for here
is not some kind of threshold inquiry, but really taking
the question of reliability away from the jury. And it
would be a very big change in our system. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we did it --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, there are a
number of circuits that already follow your adversary
rules. I think it's not just one or two. It's about
five or six.
The floodgates open there? How many -- how
many suppressions of witness identification has occurred
in those circuits?
MS. SAHARSKY: It is not many, but the
principle the Petitioner is arguing for is a significant
one. It is that the Due Process Clause protects
against -- protects reliability. And I assure you that
once this Court says that that is the case, that there
will be defendants throughout the United States making
arguments about all different kinds of evidence, not
involving the police, being unreliable and that that all
needs to be taken away for -- from the jury, and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, suppose the --
lie detectors, for example, that's been taken away from
the jury on a categorical basis, right?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, there are some State
rules of evidence that do that, but, I mean, we're
talking about as a matter of due process that it is
fundamentally unfair at trial to not allow -- this --
to -- this evidence if given to the trial would be
fundamentally unfair. And, you know, the Constitution
has enshrined the jury as the fundamental guarantee, as
the fundamental protector of liberty; and to think that
that same Constitution through the Due Process Clause
means that run-of-the-mill evidence has to be taken away
from the juries, that the trial court can itself look at
factors like how good of a view the person had --
JUSTICE ALITO: There surely is some minimal
due process requirement for the admission of evidence,
isn't there? Are you saying there is none? If a State
abolished the hearsay rule, could it -- would it not be
a violation of due process if the prosecution introduced
quadruple hearsay?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I think that there
would initially be a problem with respect to the
Confrontation Clause, and the court would probably go
through the analysis that way. We're not saying that
the court --
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. Let me give --
you're right. Let me give you another example. Let's
say you have -- the State puts on a witness who -- who
says this person did it because I saw it in my crystal
ball.
MS. SAHARSKY: Right. And I think that the
answer that I would give is the same one to the question
Justice Kagan asked, which is where the Court is now,
the Court has never said that the introduction of some
kind of evidence is so unreliable it would violate due
process. In Dowling, for example, it had evidence
that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is tea-leaf reading okay?
MS. SAHARSKY: What I'm saying is the Court
doesn't need to address that question here. It also
doesn't need to foreclose it. But this is very
run-of-the-mill evidence. It doesn't mean that the
Court could never find that some kind of evidence is so
problematic that the Due Process Clause could preclude
its admission, but what we're talking about here is
fairly run-of-the-mill evidence.
I would just point the Court to the decision
in Dowling, which was about a prior conviction for which
the person had been acquitted; and then that evidence
was let in at his trial, and he said that's a problem.
That evidence is too unreliable and too prejudicial, and
the Court said that's not for the Due Process Clause.
The Constitution gives you the process to test evidence.
It doesn't ensure that all of the evidence that's going
be introduced be reliable. And that's what Petitioner
is saying here today, and that would be a very expansive
view of the Due Process Clause that just can't be
reconciled with cases like Dowling and Colorado v.
Connelly.
If the Court has no further questions, we'd
submit that the judgment of the court below should be
affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Guerriero, you have 2 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD GUERRIERO
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GUERRIERO: I will try to make three
points in those 2 minutes.
I would ask the Court to consider the
circumstances that would be excluded if the Court
accepts the rule proposed by the State, that there has
to be some intentional manipulation or intentional
orchestration. Suppose that rather than the accidental
or happenstance show-up we had here, suppose that the
accident was in the line-up at the police station, and
the police were completely in good faith, getting to the
mental state issue, and -- but in spite of their good
faith, there was suggestion in the line-up. Would the
trial court look at that and say, even though this was a
suggestive line-up, we're not going to consider a due
process claim because it wasn't intentional or
deliberate manipulation? We would suggest that that
would be contrary to the principle that the primary evil
is the risk of misidentification.
Consider another circumstance. Suppose
there are two witnesses at the police station, and in
spite of the best efforts and good rules of the police,
witness one looks at the line-up and then -- or looks at
the photo line-up so that they can't be changed, let's
say, and leaves the line-up and somehow communicates to
witness two, I picked the one on the bottom at the
right; I think that's the one. That suggestion would be
very powerful from the person who experienced the very
same crime.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Tell that to the jury.
What jury isn't going to be -- I mean, the more
persuasive your argument is, the more likely it is that
a jury will take care of that.
MR. GUERRIERO: The problem is that the
witnesses who have -- are under the suggestive influence
actually believe what they're testifying to, and the --
that's why the Court said in Wade cross-examination for
this one kind of evidence -- not floodgates, but this
one kind of evidence -- cross-examination may not always
be enough. The witness's sincerity has a powerful
effect on the jury.
The last point I want to make is that this
is not going to open the floodgates, as we say, or
create a slew of new claims. Under the Watkins case,
this Court knows that there -- there's not even required
to have a separate hearing on this evidence. And the
reason a separate hearing isn't required is because
these issues would be fleshed out in front of the jury.
This is only a question of what legal
standard applies when the judge hears the defendant's
objection that this violates due process, there's a --
there's a substantial likelihood of misidentification.
So, it's not any new claims. It's not any separate
hearings. It's simply a question of what exactly is the
due process rule.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 10:58 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
54:20 altered 36:1 32:9 36:6 40:4 base 36:18 37:22 39:10,19
42:1 46:4 49:17 49:22 C
12:21 aspect 16:6 Biggers 24:7 7:15,16,22,25
51:15 31:7 aspects 18:6 38:6 41:6,11 19:19,22,25
1:14 assume 8:21 32:11 39:9,11 33:12 34:4,23
applied 33:20 ATM 12:1 Brathwaite 44:17 45:2,18
apply 9:15 20:15 a.m 1:13 3:2 20:21 21:10,21 cases 4:10,20,25
13:2 34:3 54:19 22:5 26:24 5:11 6:4 14:7
23:21 area 32:24 36:10 brief 20:13 23:21 24:10
B 46:18 27:13 35:17,21
36:2,9
46:17 argue 12:9 b 8:9 44:5 briefing 41:1,1 36:12 37:9,16
50:10,21 argued 12:10 back 18:4 30:1 bring 31:20 37:17,19 38:11
arguing 49:12 38:17,19 39:10 bringing 30:6 42:9,24 43:16
52:3 52:8 54:17 committed Connelly 43:21 counter's 41:1
circuits 23:18 common 11:18 consider 28:8 22:25
15:7 19:15 33:20 34:6 53:10 33:15 court 1:1,12 3:9
25:1 35:24 53:5 community considered 4:10,24 5:10
13:25 23:12 31:25 completely 25:5 43:4 46:13 14:3,5 15:19
34:4,20,25 34:19 46:22 50:3,6 51:23 17:5 18:4,5,13
44:10 47:6 40:7 36:17 45:12 24:10,20 25:14
cited 23:19 40:9 contact 15:15 27:14 28:21
21:5 Civilians 34:7 46:14 context 14:6 33:3,4 34:24
claim 6:1,19 concern 29:1 15:14 18:17 35:3 37:24
20:5 18:11 43:20,22 38:19 42:9 38:21 43:10 40:11,14 41:15
33:3 53:1 concerned 30:8 45:18 41:20 42:3
claims 43:4 54:4 concerns 28:23 contrary 53:3 43:3,6,8,9,17
class 45:2 conclude 21:13 26:12 44:24 46:4,7,8
23:15 50:6,18 51:14 1:17 51:18 51:3,4,9,13,17
28:3 51:22 52:2 conduct 8:10 convictions 51:22 52:5,6
clear 32:18 13:6,12,24 26:12 52:14,15,24
35:17 33:8,11,22,23 47:10 courtroom
Colorado 43:21 37:22 38:12 31:12,15 32:16 courts 33:16
combination 23:16 36:6 41:16,18 42:8
come 9:21 16:2 confrontation corrupting 45:18 46:3,11
23:23 38:7 42:5 43:7 44:6 Cory 23:24 Crawford 43:8
16:16,20 48:17 confrontations 21:5 28:15 40:6,9 42:11
28:15 comes 14:15 38:21 32:10 37:1 54:4
32:3 27:16 28:1,2 confronted 41:22 49:4 created 4:17 6:2
41:22 43:11 43:20 52:8 54:17 6:8 7:10 41:7
49:3,20 coming 28:9 connection 3:21 Counselor 3:16 42:18
39:8,9,14 determine 31:25 door 9:5 51:24
defendant's 27:10,12,17 43:14 ESQ 1:15,17,19
39:12 33:6 41:14 32:24 33:4,24 Dowling 43:21 2:3,6,9,13
48:11 54:10 34:5,6 51:6,18 52:3 essence 35:23
defense 4:4 deterring 27:10 drastic 23:15 36:1 37:22
23:15 25:8 differ 20:4 due 3:13 6:1,19 30:9
define 11:11 difference 20:22 7:17,20 8:5 9:2 establish 36:21
22:3 41:4 27:19 30:4,5 11:23 12:10 22:16
32:10 defined 13:12 32:13,17 38:11 14:13 25:14,21 et 43:7 46:14
43:7 definition 13:4 different 4:18 28:11,12,22 evaluate 17:5
46:14 degree 15:11 11:16 20:19,22 29:13 30:8 evaluation 3:14
38:22 39:4 22:12,13 28:9 32:23 34:18 everybody
2:6 28:17,18 31:23 32:4 36:3,4,6,9 37:5 evidence 4:20,23
29:20 30:5 38:16 39:9 42:21 43:10,15 7:19 9:2,4,7,9
33:13 34:2,16 differently 48:20 49:13,25 18:10,12 19:15
38:17 dinner 19:1,1 51:5,14,22 21:7 22:4
53:2 directly 45:17 11:25 35:19 36:13,20
Department disagrees 40:15 E 42:17,18,19,20
depend 3:17 discussions 33:5 effect 54:1 46:5,11,18
deprive 9:12,13 distinct 8:15 efforts 53:7 48:21,23 49:17
9:8 designed 37:3 distinguish element 43:13 51:12,13,16,19
despite 34:24 14:21,22 elicit 28:24 51:21,23,24
11:17 detectors 49:21 distinguishing emergency 8:17 53:23,24 54:6
15:20 deter 33:22 29:9 empirical 26:4 evidentiary 9:16
24:4 35:12 DNA 5:2 18:10 engaged 29:24 evil 53:3
30:1,20 determination document 42:12 enshrined 50:4 exact 48:16
6:21 extreme 43:23 far 30:20 37:16 found 43:17 16:12 27:2
43:24 44:2 43:17 48:10 Fourth 35:10 30:23 31:9
25:20 10:9 friends 19:1 39:3 46:11
14:24 4:17,23 5:6,11 20:5,25 23:18 function 44:23 52:25 53:16
34:23 5:16 6:6,7,14 46:18,19 fundamental 54:3
6:14,23,25 7:3 figure 40:1 7:20 25:13 good 15:3 19:9
45:6,21 7:11 8:20 filed 15:4 50:4,5 22:23 23:14
48:4 10:23 12:13,19 find 24:22 25:19 fundamentally 24:18 26:4
50:22 14:13,23,25 25:20 26:8,10 50:1,3 30:18 50:9
17:18 18:11 30:3 43:14 further 11:4 52:21,22 53:7
15:20 25:6,10,18 finding 25:9 41:13 52:5 44:10,13
21:15 28:22 41:17 findings 31:4 G greater 16:1
47:2 48:3 32:19 G 3:1 38:14
9:1,4,8,25 F fingerprint General 1:17,20 ground 9:20
12:17,23 face 21:25 31:6 45:24,25 28:17 33:3 11:2 12:5,8,11
14:13 fact 4:10,25 5:2 first 3:4 12:22 generally 14:9 23:10 40:11
24:5 5:22 12:23 14:3 20:18 14:14 46:20
45:3 16:6 18:4 29:13 31:2 getting 30:25 grounds 9:16
23:25 24:12 33:15 34:11 40:23 52:21 38:6 39:4
36:2 40:10 48:16 five 49:7 10:6,9,12,16 2:3,13 3:5,6,8
48:16 50:9 25:21 15:6 26:16,22 4:22 5:9,19
31:4 32:18 focused 13:25 43:23 50:21,22 10:22 11:1,3,7
29:1 30:10 45:19 given 11:14 12:7,21 13:6
fairly 8:15 47:4 follow 36:4 49:5 21:21 22:25 18:19 19:8,13
fairness 7:21 17:8 37:4 39:12 21:3,20,22
false 18:8 35:19 forensic 18:8 goes 17:11 18:21 25:22 26:9,21
39:17 47:18 forward 39:3 going 8:2,25 28:4,7,16 52:9
53:19 husband's 14:22 induced 32:20 8:22,23 50:14 41:19
36:13 45:5 introduction 18:22 19:10,11
32:10 identical 37:11 39:3 45:13 15:14 16:24 43:14 44:20,23
37:17 53:20 34:22 38:3 44:23 45:13,14
3:4 8:13 12:4,14 inherently 9:24 invoked 9:20 49:22 50:4
48:6 12:19 16:23 initially 50:17 involve 34:7 53:15,16,18
32:21 43:24 44:11 48:25 38:13 3:24 4:15 5:1,5
44:20 48:4,12 49:9 instance 4:19 involvement 5:15 6:4,21 7:5
52:19 identified 24:4 instances 21:12 involving 34:4 10:12,15,17,18
25:11 instruction 12:8 issues 18:8,8 13:21,21 14:5
54:6,7 impact 38:25 16:11 48:5,6,8 15:9,10,23
impartial 45:13 intent 40:6 jailhouse 25:3,4 20:3,21 21:10
39:3 28:11,22 intentionally 20:10 21:1,12 25:25 26:3,13
40:1,12 including 20:16 interesting 45:1 46:19,21 47:13 28:6,15,17,20
7:1 8:12 47:12 interpreting judges 21:10,13 29:21,22 30:12
16:6 independent 48:22 judgment 29:21 31:6,13,16
25:23 38:1 intrigued 46:17 41:20 46:21 32:3,8,17 33:2
individual 17:23 introduce 42:12 52:6 33:13,21 34:9
38:9,10 44:21 45:25 35:4 manipulating message 6:10
40:8 47:6,21,22 line-up 8:14,15 27:11 MICHAEL 1:17
41:22 48:23 50:3 11:17 13:17 manipulation 2:6 28:18
knowingly 15:21 16:10,185:18,20 24:21 midway 19:3
44:21 35:19 42:24 29:9 52:20,23 28:10 29:5 minimal 50:10
43:1 45:20 52:25 53:8,9 30:24 31:10 minimum 36:20
47:9 knows 42:19 53:10 41:4 47:7 mini-trials
49:3,4 54:5 line-ups 16:12 52:17 53:2 44:24
50:10,21 little 33:10 manipulative minute 17:14
52:8 L 40:11 27:15 18:2
54:17 lady 7:23 long 17:22 48:11manner 6:11 minutes 17:13
24:24 law 17:9,10 20:10,10 21:2markedly 41:18 26:13 27:18
26:3 20:15 21:19 22:7 23:12 mask 22:25 miscarriages
23:18 24:18 26:14 matches 26:15 5:1
38:9 layer 31:1 29:12 31:25 material 45:22 misidentificati...
43:23 lead 12:25 22:17 34:23 37:13 matter 1:11 9:22 3:12,13 13:1
26:4 38:17,19 39:1622:12 27:15 22:18 33:17
25:24 52:24 49:25 54:20 misidentificati...
19:9 leave 12:15 34:17 meal 19:3 misleading 20:7
27:21 29:19 looking 20:22,23mean 4:14 7:6 20:12 21:13
34:9 leaves 53:10 48:9 11:12 12:12,24 misplace 34:19
44:21 leaving 27:6 looks 13:16 53:8 13:3,4 14:20 mix 10:4
left 6:10 53:8 19:14 24:15 mold 46:16
51:8 legal 54:9 lose 34:5 26:17 28:7 moment 21:2
22:3 26:7 level 11:24 46:2,23 47:17 40:4
44:4 15:19 36:20 M 49:24 51:12 move 12:8 15:1
48:25 40:6 machinations 53:16 15:3 30:20
53:23 liar 47:15 24:1,2 means 50:7 32:20
liberty 9:12,14 magic 12:18 meant 35:12 multiple 16:12
lie 25:3 49:21 making 49:16 meet 25:8 46:24
13:3,16 54:12 13:20 15:21,25 mens 30:25 nail 29:22
limit 10:4 16:2 40:19,20 39:22 40:24 necessarily 4:9
17:14,22 limited 4:16 6:7 manipulate 41:5 30:19
22:14 29:11 42:13 mental 52:22 necessary 30:17
25:5 limits 48:2 manipulated menu 19:4 35:1 38:2
33:11 linchpin 33:17 31:9 mere 43:18 necessity 34:21
41:4 37:12 38:4 47:3 16:25 53:11 36:10 37:12,21
51:10 39:2 40:17,17 people 17:12,13 picture 3:20,25 38:4,12,18,21
40:19 17:13,13,16 23:3,10 38:23 39:1,2,7
44:4 once 10:3 13:22 perjured 42:25 play 29:10 38:7 53:6,7
51:4,13 13:23 49:15 43:1,1 45:21 39:4 40:13 policeman 29:7
21:4 25:21 10:14 47:13 played 30:6 47:6 police-arranged
48:5 open 49:8 54:3 perpetrator players 34:8 42:5
opinion 30:24 22:24 23:9 playing 33:18 position 3:17
21:5 22:24 Perry's 37:10 42:3 potential 30:7
41:24 13:25 12:2,17 13:9 point 12:13 13:7 53:25
3:6 28:18 16:3,22,22,25 23:19 26:19 precious 21:8
37:1 orchestrated 23:3,4,8,8 33:6 51:17 prejudice 20:7
orchestration 31:18 47:14 pointed 40:3,16 47:20
outweighed 20:6 Petitioner 1:4 8:10,13 11:9 32:8
1:16 2:4,14 3:7 11:17,20,20 pretesting 5:7
51:25 52:11 24:1,2,17,19 primarily 27:17
39:18 P 3:1 41:17 27:23 28:1,9 53:3
PAGE 2:2 phone 6:10 28:11,13,23 principle 33:1
47:4,20 proposing 22:13 41:13 52:5 records 26:1 respect 46:7
45:15 7:18 8:23 quite 31:22,23 25:21 respectfully
51:20 18:24 38:24 37:20 red-flag 19:22 41:19
44:3 50:14 red-flagged respond 22:1
35:18 36:19 R 3:1 reference 40:10 1:18,22 2:7,11
16:7 protection 45:16 raises 15:22 regard 32:2,17 result 22:9
46:12 47:25 17:4 regarding 18:10 25:12 35:13
36:18,23 protector 50:5 17:1 46:7 33:23
7:17,20 49:14 raped 22:23 relevance 20:6 reversal 6:5
9:2,6,14 prove 42:14 23:5 37:3 RICHARD 1:15
11:23 proved 24:25 rare 19:25 reliability 3:14 2:3,13 3:6
14:13 proves 27:14 rational 36:20 4:3 5:7 26:5 52:10
28:11 provide 36:23 43:14 33:6,16 34:13 right 8:6 10:8,11
29:1 provides 43:5 rationale 18:21 34:14,17 35:3 10:15,22 11:1
30:8,10 province 18:22 32:24 34:3,5 35:4 36:5,7,9 11:3,7,9,10,22
32:23 19:11 rea 30:25 39:22 36:15,24 37:4 14:13 15:18
35:10,11 provision 45:12 40:24 41:5 37:7 38:15 16:19 17:10
psychological read 33:18 43:6 44:25 19:8 20:3,13
18:15 reading 51:8 46:9,10 49:1 20:14,24 21:8
41:19 publishes 3:25 reads 23:1 49:14 21:16 22:10
put 15:6 29:18 really 6:7,13 reliable 4:21 25:11,21 30:19
30:13 44:14 18:1 22:20,23 12:6 24:14,23 31:11 33:2,22
47:10,14 48:2 29:8 33:7 27:15 43:5 35:14 36:18,25
puts 35:4 46:13 34:11 35:5,9 51:25 49:22 50:21,22
50:23 37:7 44:23 remaining 52:9 51:1 53:12
49:13,25 putting 30:9 45:19 46:15 remember 17:9 rightly 4:5,6
41:3 42:9 48:7,24,25 remembering rise 11:23
reason 10:4 14:3 17:15 rises 15:19
53:1 Q 25:23 29:17 reminisce 18:23 risk 5:14 6:2,15
quadruple 33:22,24 54:7 render 6:16 22:18 27:17,18
13:20 reasonably request 41:19 ROBERTS 3:3
38:15 43:2 2:12 52:10 54:5,7 49:3,20 52:8
38:20 says 13:12,16 shows 3:20 3:19,24 29:2,7 statements
44:17 15:21 16:21 show-up 8:16,18 29:11,16,21 47:12
47:7 17:10,24 19:25 11:14,15 15:20 30:12 39:6,21 States 1:1,12,21
25:6 scale 30:10 39:25 40:15 sources 37:2 station 52:20
27:16 scales 42:10 52:19 so-and-so 23:2 53:6
35:9,11 45:20 show-ups 11:24 special 6:15,24 stay 29:18 31:18
41:18 Scalia 4:15 6:4 side 9:10 44:12 7:3 19:15 step 34:11
6:21 7:5,9 8:19 significance 4:2 35:11 46:5 stolen 12:1
48:21,23 9:3,7,18 10:3 significant 48:5,6 stood 28:14
52:16 10:18 12:12 49:12 specifically 24:1 stop 22:5
31:6,13,16 similar 35:22 37:3 38:22 Stovall 31:24
Scalia's 13:22 similarly 6:23 spite 52:22 53:7 35:21 39:5
37:2 scene 8:16 16:21 simple 10:20 39:13 15:13
49:6 29:19 30:15,20 simply 15:2 22:7 stacking 30:9 stress 19:6
53:7 31:20 39:12,20 31:3 36:7 stand 31:21 studies 12:5
50:7 seconds 18:2 single 13:9 16:11 20:2 study 18:1,1
see 4:20 9:18,20 singled 18:13 22:12,13,15 25:2,2,3 26:10
sit 30:14 25:17 35:18 subject 25:20
27:3,4 sense 9:15 29:11 six 49:7 standing 30:2 subsequent 4:25
41:23,24 separate 6:19 36:22 45:15 39:13 substantial 33:5
12:7,10 45:12 skew 29:1 30:13 standpoint 42:20 54:12
45:7,11 45:15 54:6,7 35:20,25 39:18 substantially
47:17 54:13 skewing 30:10 starts 17:12 12:25 20:1
49:11,23 serious 38:19 slew 54:4 state 9:12,13,16 22:17,18 47:1
51:1,9 set 12:23 16:15 slight 13:16 9:19,22 10:3 substantive
50:24 sets 16:13 Solicitor 1:19 31:4 39:23,24 sufficient 13:19
13:20 shop 17:24 somebody 8:24 42:8,9,11,18 4:22 35:8 42:7
15:13 shorter 17:15 18:7,9 26:9 42:19,24 45:19 53:2
20:23 show 8:24 16:13 someone's 42:13 45:20 46:10 suggested 27:23
34:10 20:12 sorry 19:20 49:23 50:12,23 suggestibility
42:23 showed 4:13 21:22 27:24 52:16,22 39:1
50:12 showing 11:25 sort 5:13 34:17 stated 32:25 suggesting 26:6
51:9 13:8 48:20 40:13 statement 15:1 29:4,12 32:5
shown 5:4 12:5 Sotomayor 3:16 20:8 suggestion 5:17
14:15 surveillance term 18:9 35:15 40:7,21 trigger 29:14
17:3,4 4:13 terms 32:14 41:2,6 45:17 triggered 37:23
28:2,9 suspect 5:23 44:13 45:23 46:19 true 33:13 47:18
30:7 13:9,11 16:10 test 31:24 34:16 47:1,9,21 49:6 truly 25:11
36:11 16:13,14 28:25 43:6 51:23 50:5,16 51:1 try 52:12
52:23 29:15 32:21 testify 23:7 53:12 trying 9:12,13
38:25 42:7 47:15 thinking 29:8 17:17 40:5,9
5:12,17 5:14,24 28:14 testimony 5:6,12 Thompson 45:4 turn 44:11
13:15 29:23 5:16 6:6,7,14 three 16:13 turned 25:2
23:10 system 20:25 6:14 7:4,11,11 52:12 turns 17:14,25
27:22 23:14 34:8 7:11 8:20 threshold 48:20 two 12:21 31:19
29:5 49:2 10:21,23 14:24 48:25 32:11 33:15
33:19 14:25 15:3,5 throw 7:13 40:3 37:9,24 38:11
T 17:19 24:25 thumb 30:10 38:16 39:9,11
40:13 T 2:1,1 25:4,6,18,19 42:10 49:6 53:6,11
52:25 take 10:3,19,20 25:19 26:5,6,7 tilting 45:19 two-part 4:1
18:25 26:14 26:19 33:24 time 4:4,25 34:11
7:12 44:22 47:8 42:25 43:1 43:20 31:5
11:6,8,12 53:18 45:21,24 46:20 times 25:9 types 44:7
12:18 taken 19:5 49:19 47:21 48:4 today 3:4 43:16
49:21 50:7 Thank 28:15,16 52:1 U
talk 38:20 39:12 41:21,22 52:8 told 21:24 46:8 unbelievable
15:11,16 talked 7:23 33:3 54:16,17 tools 36:17,23 7:10 46:22
37:18 33:16 44:7 theory 9:21 47:9 torture 43:25,25 undermined
talking 13:22,23 Thigpen 23:24 totality 31:25 35:6
36:25 25:1,17 30:16 44:15 touchstone 26:3
42:1 47:18,19 49:25 20:16 37:25 trial 9:14 13:15 47:19 50:1,3
49:20 talks 29:3 think 4:24 5:10 19:17,24 21:12 28:10,13
53:5 teach 19:10 6:4,6,13,15,18 22:18 27:18 unintentional
techniques 7:15,25 9:3 40:14 41:15 unique 3:11
technology 14:11 16:1,3,7 46:16,21 47:25 39:1
tell 8:2 13:7 18:3,9 19:13 50:8 51:20 2:10 41:25
30:21 43:17 44:20 26:8,13,14 23:16 26:2 24:13 28:25
53:15 27:12 28:4,7 tricky 28:8 33:19 34:12
34:20 violates 54:11 17:12 22:22 40:4 702 48:23
39:25 violation 7:20 We'll 3:3 47:8,8 75 26:11
10:20,24 50:14 16:12 19:14 wrong 12:20
18:6 Virginia 36:19 25:16 31:9 wrongful 26:12
40:7 43:11 35:9 38:15 wrote 39:23
6:16 7:12 44:18 49:24 X
9:5,24 W 50:19 51:15 x 1:2,7
20:9 Wade 4:24 5:10 52:25
24:5 14:4 18:4,5 we've 5:3 7:25 Y
26:8 29:3 38:20 20:16 24:6 yard 30:1
33:24 39:14,15 41:6 26:10 29:2 yards 12:14
38:13 53:22 Whoa 22:5 years 5:3
43:2 wait 22:5 30:15 wife 18:25
45:3,14 window 7:24 8:3
49:18 31:22 32:20
19:22 10 5:3
37:13,22 38:5
10-8974 1:4 3:4
22:7 witness 4:13 10:02 1:13 3:2
10:58 54:19
42:13 5:22 6:12 13:7
29:19 100 21:11
15:24 16:9,11
38:12,14 15 5:3
1967 25:24
wanted 8:13 25:10 29:15 2
wants 30:3,3 37:12 38:5,24 200 12:14
48:8,15 38:24 39:3,19
23:24 wasn't 12:10 47:14,15 48:10 3
32:25,25 23:11 29:8 48:19 49:9 3 2:4
43:11,21 32:11 53:1 50:23 53:8,11
46:8 52:3 Watkins 54:4 witnesses 4:14 4
46:25 18:21 19:10 witness's 4:7 403 20:5,10,25
22:21 23:15 28:24 40:18 21:3,13,23
32:19,19 37:21 woman 8:10 47:17
wearing 22:1 wonder 26:5 5
weeks 22:25 works 10:7 52 2:14
went 15:17 9:23 17:20 7
