IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
RAFAEL ARRIAZA GONZALEZ, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 10-895
RICK THALER, DIRECTOR, TEXAS :
DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE, :
CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTIONS DIVISION:
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, November 2, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:00 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Petitioner.
JONATHAN F. MITCHELL, ESQ., Solicitor General, Austin,
Texas; on behalf of Respondent.
ANN O'CONNELL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JONATHAN F. MITCHELL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ANN O'CONNELL, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States,
as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondent 45
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:00 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case No. 10-895, Gonzalez v. Thaler.
Ms. Millett.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The court of appeals in this case had
jurisdiction to adjudicate the appeal, but in doing so,
it decided the case wrongly.
Mr. Gonzalez's petition for habeas corpus
was timely because it was filed within a year of the
conclusion of direct appellate proceedings in the State
court and at the -- within a year of that court's ending
of his appeal process.
With respect to jurisdiction, jurisdiction
existed because a certificate of appealability was
issued. It rested upon a substantial showing of the
denial of a constitutional right.
To be sure, the judge in issuing that
certificate did not identify the substantial
constitutional question required by 2253(c)(3). That is
a requirement. It is mandatory, but it is not
jurisdictional.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if he had
identified a constitutional issue, speedy trial issue?
Does that give the court the authority to consider a
different constitutional issue, a Fourth Amendment
issue?
MS. MILLETT: Yes, it does. Once -- this is
a gatekeeping function to identify which case, which
appeals should go forward and claim the attention of the
court. But the text of the statute and 22 -- that's on
page -- excuse me -- page 3a of the appendix to the blue
brief. It provides that an appeal may not go forward,
and if a certificate is issued, appeals may go forward.
The operative language here in (c)(1) is that this is
about an appeal going forward.
So, once the certificate identifies issues,
the appeal goes forward. It's much like 1292(b), where
certification of questions comes to an appellate court,
and they decide whether to take interlocutory review.
Once they do, they're not bound to just those questions.
The entire order comes up for review.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, what if it
identifies something that is not remotely a Federal
constitutional issue? By the terms of the COA, it's
quite clear, you know, whether it is a State law issue or
something else. There's no constitutional plausibility
on the face of it.
Does that still work for you?
MS. MILLETT: It -- it works in the sense
that it's not a jurisdictional bar to going forward. It
is a violation of (c)(3). If timely raised by the
State, then it can either be dismissed or revisited by
the original judge. An appeal from the authorizing
judge --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How do you decide whether
it's a jurisdictional bar? You acknowledge that the
issuance by a judge of a certificate of appealability is
a jurisdictional step; right?
MS. MILLETT: This Court so held --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That is jurisdictional. If
he doesn't do that, there's no jurisdiction.
MS. MILLETT: Because this Court held in
Miller-El --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. So -- so, the issue
is whether (c)(3), which says the certificate of
appealability "shall indicate which specific issue or
issues satisfy the showing required," whether that
provision is a requirement for the validity of the
certificate of appealability. If it is, then there's no
jurisdiction, because the certificate of appealability
is invalid.
MS. MILLETT: Well, I don't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that right?
MS. MILLETT: I don't agree that the
so-called content validity of a document that is post
hoc certifying a gatekeeping requirement is itself
jurisdictional, because there is a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, let's take the Fourth
Amendment, I mean, which says, "no warrants shall issue,
but upon probable cause." Okay? So -- but then it goes
on, "supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly
describing the place to be searched and the persons or
things to be seized." Is the warrant valid if indeed it
does not meet those requirements of being supported by
oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the --
MS. MILLETT: No, a warrant may well not be
valid if it doesn't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It won't be valid. It will
just be invalid.
MS. MILLETT: But the certificate of
appealability is invalid as matter of law here. It's an
incorrect -- it's an incorrect action by the court.
That doesn't make it jurisdictional. It's just --
warrants aren't jurisdictional, either, in that sense.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Just to take a kind of nutty
example, Ms. Millett, suppose that a judge took a blank
piece of paper and typed the words "certificate of
appealability" on top and issued it. Still jurisdiction
to take the appeal?
MS. MILLETT: Still jurisdiction to take the
appeal. Of course, one would expect -- one would expect
either the court of appeals judges or the State,
which -- both of which have every incentive to check on
these things, to raise the issue. But the question
is when something happens --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, what counts as a
certificate of appealability is I guess the question.
All you need is those three words, and then you have a
certificate of appealability --
MS. MILLETT: Well, I think it --
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- such that jurisdiction
attaches?
MS. MILLETT: No, there's more to it. I
mean, it's not issued by the clerk's office, right? The
statute requires a judge to do this, a Federal judge,
circuit judge or justice -- circuit justice -- to issue
this. And these are -- these are officials who are
sworn to uphold the law and the Constitution. And when
they do this, when they make these determinations, they
aren't handing these out like candy; they're deciding
that their court, their colleagues, maybe themselves,
should invest resources in this process.
So, the fact that a certificate is issued is
not simply a piece of paper coming out. I think it is
fair to presume that it is a deliberate determination by
a judicial officer.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, under Justice --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Millett, suppose,
instead of having the statute broken down into (c)(1),
(2), and (3), Congress had written (c) as just one
paragraph that says: You must have a certificate of
appealability, and this is what the certificate must
contain. No division into (2) and (3). Would you still
maintain that only the first sentence of the paragraph
is jurisdictional and the rest is not?
MS. MILLETT: Well, my position would be
harder for precisely the reason you phrased. And as
Justice Scalia was asking, how do we tell? These are --
these are jobs of statutory construction, and the fact
that Congress broke these two steps out and broke (c)(3)
out by itself, and there's a noticeable turn in the
language by the time you get to (c)(3) -- (c)(1) says
"no appeal shall be taken." That sounds jurisdictional.
(c)(3) says a document "shall indicate" issues after the
fact.
The important thing to understand here is
that you not only have the language shifting materially,
but your starting presumption, the starting presumption
here, is that we need a clear direction from Congress
before we decide that something is jurisdictional. And
this Court has faced language far more emphatic than
(c)(3). For example, in Reed --
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose the Petitioner asks
for a certificate of appealability on 10 issues, and the
circuit judge says, I'm granting it on issue 1, I'm
denying it on issue 2 through 9 -- 2 through 10.
Is there jurisdiction to consider 2 through
10?
MS. MILLETT: There is jurisdiction to
consider. It's obviously within the discretion of the
court. They could also determine not to. And I say
that, again, because the language talks --
JUSTICE ALITO: No, in that situation then,
if the State moves to dismiss the arguments that are
made by Petitioner on issues 2 through 10, would the --
would the panel be obligated to do that?
MS. MILLETT: No, it wouldn't. It would not
be obligated to, because what (c)(1) says is this
determines when an appeal comes forward, the whole
appeal comes forward.
JUSTICE ALITO: It could do that without
issuing a new -- without issuing a certificate of
appealability, without saying we think that the judge
who issued the certificate of appealability was
incorrect, that jurists of reason could disagree on
issues 2 through 10?
MS. MILLETT: Well, I think -- I think
whether you have -- the panel would then have to do
the paperwork of doing a new certificate of
appealability or adjusting its own decision in the
course of its ruling, explain that we've decided to
reach these is not, I don't think, of jurisdictional
significance, which way they --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Millett --
MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- it seems to me you beg
the question when you say that the issue is whether the
appeal will go forward. That's precisely what -- what
the issue is here, whether it is that the appeal will go
forward or whether an appeal on an identified issue will
go forward. That's exactly what we're talking about.
MS. MILLETT: Well, it's a statutory
construction question, whether Congress --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it seems that the
structure of the statute wants an appeal to go forward
on a particular issue, and not in -- not in general on
-- on who knows how many issues.
MS. MILLETT: Well, Justice Scalia, with
respect, that's not what the statute says. Congress
could have written the statute that way, but I think it
would be extraordinary to tell courts that an appeal
comes forward but we're only going to allow you to look
at this precise issue decided by one judge.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It says it doesn't come
forward -- doesn't come forward unless there is a
certificate of appealability.
MS. MILLETT: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And then it says the
certificate of appealability shall indicate which
specific issue or issues satisfy the showing required.
MS. MILLETT: But in nowhere --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, I read that as
saying you -- we're going to have an appeal but just an
appeal on the issue that's identified.
MS. MILLETT: First of all, I mean, courts
can certainly do that as a matter of discretion, but
whether they are compelled --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then that would exclude
this case, wouldn't it, because there is a
constitutional issue? It's a speedy trial issue. But
that issue was not reached below, because the case was
dismissed as untimely. So, the only constitutional
issue that's in the case is one that couldn't be
adjudicated by the court of appeals. Isn't that right?
Is there another constitutional issue other than the
speedy trial issue?
MS. MILLETT: There -- there are other
issues that were raised. I think for our purposes that
the strongest one that was most clearly substantial is
a speedy trial one. And that's the one that we
identified --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's a little odd that
you would identify that issue for the court of appeals
when the court of appeals couldn't take it up because it
wasn't reached below, because the case was -- was
dismissed at an earlier stage.
MS. MILLETT: Well, I think, Justice
Ginsburg, your question actually captures why these
mistakes happen by court of appeals judges. The court
of appeals judge presumably -- and again, I'm just
presuming here. This Court's seen this mistake happen
before. And I think what -- the judge that looked at
this didn't make a determination there wasn't a
substantial constitutional question, had to know that
that was there.
But for the court of appeals' purposes,
they're just going to sort out the procedural question,
and if it's timely they're not going to address speedy
trial in the first instance. That would go back to the
district court. So, that's one of the reasons I think
just as a practical matter why this mistake happens
sometimes in this certificate of appealability process.
But the fundamental question here is one of
statutory construction: Did Congress make clear, clear
at the level we require for jurisdiction, clear that we
-- at the level we would require for holding -- and I've
never seen this anywhere in this Court's precedent --
holding that an individual pro se prisoner who does
everything reasonably possible, fully and timely
complies with all obligations, will still have his right
to first habeas on a substantial constitutional claim
irretrievably jurisdictionally foreclosed because the
court of appeals judge miswrote a certificate
documenting a judgment that the officer made.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you -- can you make
the argument -- does it help you, in distinguishing the
notice of appeals section, to -- to say that the notice
of appeal has to say the judgment or order that's being
appealed?
That's almost clerical. It doesn't require
any -- any discretion on the part of the judge or
extensive review of the record, whereas in the COA,
there has to be an element of judgment in deciding what
the constitutional issue is. Does that help you
distinguish the two?
You rely on the fact that the notice of
appeals cases were decided before our -- our case
indicating that it has to be clear language.
MS. MILLETT: I think certainly that there's
that point. I think what's important to recognize is
that there's actually a similarity between this Court's
notice of appeal cases in something like Houston v.
Lack, the mail -- prison mailbox rule. You have a
specific textual jurisdictional requirement in the -- in
the rules, that require filing a notice of appeal
with the clerk of the district court. And this Court
said, look, when it comes to prisoners who have done
everything humanly possible within their control to meet
the jurisdictional requirements, we are not going to
interpret these rules -- as part of the presumption, we
don't interpret rules to strip away jurisdiction from
individuals who have done everything humanly possible,
particularly when the facts on the ground are that the
statute was satisfied.
The facts here are that it was met, and
there's every reason to think that Judge Garza made that
determination --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but --
MS. MILLETT: -- but didn't want to go into
the speedy trial --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You've done everything
humanly possible, and just because of the mistake of a
-- of a district judge, it can't go forward. But that
happens.
What if the district judge does -- makes a
mistake and -- and he thinks that there has not been a
substantial showing of the denial of a constitutional
right? He makes a mistake about that. What happens?
MS. MILLETT: That can be appealed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The same -- the same
terrible result --
MS. MILLETT: That can -- that can be
appealed. There are -- you can -- you can -- there are
processes for attempting to appeal single-judge orders.
Within every court of appeals, they have rules for that.
The difficulty here is that you have a pro
se prisoner who thought he won. He got something that's
hard to get from a court of appeals judge, and that's a
certificate of appealability. And he did it by
providing documentation of a substantial speedy trial
claim, a speedy trial claim unlike this Court has ever
seen, a 10-year gap between indictment and trial and
then conviction on nothing but eyewitness testimony.
He documented that for the court, did
everything he could. And it isn't until this Court that
the State says, hang on; there was never any
jurisdiction over this whole case. They didn't tell the
court of appeals judges that. They didn't say anything
until the case came to this Court. And that type of
trap --
JUSTICE ALITO: But is it necessary for you
to go -- is it necessary for you to go as far as you
seem to be going? Would it be possible to read (c)(3)
as mandatory but not jurisdictional?
MS. MILLETT: That's --
JUSTICE ALITO: So that if -- well, I
understood what you just -- your argument to be that it
doesn't even have any effect, that so long as there's
any document that's called a certificate of
appealability, then anything can be considered by the
court of appeals panel without the issuance of a -- of a
certificate of appealability covering the issue.
But if it's mandatory but not
jurisdictional, then if the State moves or maybe if the
court, if the panel, sue sponte identifies the fact that
there may be an error, there's an opportunity for a new
certificate of appealability. If nothing is done,
then -- then there isn't a problem. It's not a
jurisdictional issue that lingers forever.
MS. MILLETT: No, I'm sorry if I misspoke.
I absolutely agree that it's mandatory and, if timely
raised, must be dealt with. I think it's an open
question whether if it's not raised until you're
actually before the panel, whether the panel then has to
identify one of its judges to issue a certificate or it
can simply in the course of its opinion say we've
determined that this should go forward, even though the
initial -- would you have to go through a formal
amendment process or you just do that as part of your
decision? I think either one will accomplish the same
result and will comply with the statute, the functional
gatekeeping requirement.
But the separate question which your
question -- your comment leads to is that in looking at
this, would Congress have wanted this gatekeeping
function to be subject to perpetual review and revision,
obligatory perpetual review by the panel? You couldn't
accept that your colleague found that there was a
substantial question; all three judges would again have
to revisit that and determine that it's substantial.
This was set up as a gatekeeping
requirement, and it was meant to be a -- a promotion of
efficiency, not to cause more work, not to cause more
paperwork, to sift out cases, identify the appeals that
merit the time and resources of the court. And once
that's identified, the more efficient process is not to
make the certificate of appealability a whole side show,
a whole other layer of processing, ping-ponging cases
back and forth between this Court, courts of appeals;
courts of appeals, single judges.
We simply -- we try -- we look at this and
we determine that a judgment was made by a judicial
officer sworn to uphold the law; a substantial showing
was made. And the fact that it wasn't written down as
the statute likes is a problem; it should have been
raised, but it wasn't raised, and we don't start all
over.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Millett, as I
understand the State, the State is not contending that
(c)(2) is jurisdictional. So, you're -- you're arguing
against a position they haven't taken. They -- they
don't say that there's no jurisdiction if in fact there
has been no substantial showing, so that the court of
appeals has to review that. They're just saying that
(c)(3), which describes the content of the -- of the
certificate of appealability, is in effect
jurisdictional.
MS. MILLETT: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, I think you're --
you're exaggerating the consequence of what the State is
urging us to hold here.
MS. MILLETT: Well, I think this -- my point
is that a substantial showing was made. So, this Court
doesn't even have to determine the status of (c)(2).
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. The State wouldn't
go into that. They're --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, before your
time expires, I'd like to ask one question on the
merits.
In Jimenez, we held that the most natural
reading of 2244(d)(1)(A) is to read it like we read
2255. And we read 2255 to say that finality is reached
when direct review -- and direct review concludes when
the court affirms a conviction or denies a petition, or,
if the defendant forgoes direct review, when the time
for seeking such review expires.
Isn't that what the Fifth Circuit did --
MS. MILLETT: No, what the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- with -- with 2244? It
read it exactly the way we read it in Jimenez?
MS. MILLETT: No, but I think, in Jimenez is
-- we're -- we're happy to take the language of Jimenez
which --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know, but you're not
taking its holding.
MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You -- you take language
from it --
MS. MILLETT: No --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- but I read -- I read
Jimenez to say that the court should be reading this
alternative "or" language in exactly the way the Fifth
Circuit did.
MS. MILLETT: This Court said in Jimenez
that the -- quote, I'm quoting here, "the language
points to the conclusion of direct appellate proceedings
in State court," as -- end quote, as a -- as a moment
of finality. And that is the test that we're asking
for. The conclusion of direct appellate proceedings in
State court in Texas is the issuance of the mandate.
Clay and Jimenez together prove our point.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Jimenez held that it's
an either/or. If you do direct review, you do it from
the time that it's final, that it concludes or, if
you've forgone direct review, when the time for seeking
review expires.
MS. MILLETT: And two responses to that.
First, that simply begs the question that we're presenting
in this case of when the direct review ended. That's our
argument in the case, is that prong. When did that
direct review prong end?
And the second -- the second aspect of this
is to understand what happened in Jimenez. The whole
argument there was that you've got to -- by the State,
was you're only -- you stopped -- remember, Jimenez had
stopped at the intermediate court of appeals as well.
And the State's argument was you stopped at the
intermediate court of appeals originally; so, you're
only in the expiration of review prong.
And this -- but then he went back 4 years
later, I think it was, and got the court to reopen,
started -- had a whole new direct review process going
on. And this Court said -- rejected the argument that
because he didn't go to the intermediate court, we don't
look at the direct review prong; we only look at
expiration of review prong. We don't look at that. We
stop and we look to see is the State done. And
whichever of those two prongs you're in -- and it may
depend on what time the question is asked. Whichever
prong you're in, the last -- the last of those will
determine when your judgment becomes final.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Ms. Millett, let's
take a look at the text of 2244(d)(1). It says the
limitation shall run from the latest of. And then it
gives four dates essentially, four sections, each of
which produces a date, (A), (B), (C), and (D). And (A)
is the one that's concerned here. And (A) says the date
on which the judgment becomes final, and then it gives
two ways by which a judgment can become final. And the
two ways are basically you lose or you quit, right? You
lose or you abandon your process.
So, I just don't understand your argument,
quite honestly, because it seems to me that (A) says the
date, a single date, on which the judgment becomes
final. When is that going to happen? Well, for some
people it's going to happen when they lose, and for
other people it's going to happen when they quit.
MS. MILLETT: First of all, the language
forks out again, and so it says the date on which the
judgment becomes final, and then there's the two options
for finality.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Right. Two ways for it to
become final: They lose or they quit.
MS. MILLETT: Well -- and the question in
this case is, how do we know when that -- that direct
review process, what you're calling the lose prong,
ends? And it's when the State says it's done. Because the
point of this is not an exhaustion prong. The point of
2244(d)(1)in particular, but 2244(d) generally, is to
say, as this Court talked about, is the State done? This
supports federalism.
Ex parte Johnson, the case that we cite,
footnote 2, says, until the mandate issues, the appeal
continues. And so, the notion of --
JUSTICE KAGAN: There's no suggestion in
section (A) that there's ever going to be a conflict
between these two ways of a judgment becoming final.
There is no suggestion that one is going to have to pick
between them. Subsection (A) is most naturally read --
again, it says "the date" -- as there's just going to be
one date. And some people, the date of finality is
going -- you know, it becomes final because they lose.
Other people, it becomes final because they quit. But
subsection (A) suggests a single date, not two dates
which you then have to choose between.
MS. MILLETT: One, I don't think the text
compels that one way or the other. It says when does it
become final. And so, let's ask the questions: When
did direct review conclude --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it does -- it does
suggest, Ms. Millett, that final, two ways -- conclusion
of direct review is you've gone up the ladder, and
that's it. And the second part is, well, if you don't
go up the ladder, you just stop. Then when your time
to go up the ladder has ended, that's it. It -- it
seems that there are those two possibilities, as Justice
Kagan put it so well: You lose or you quit.
MS. MILLETT: And the issue is -- and I hate
to call it the "lose prong" -- but when did he lose?
When did the State say, we're done and we've decided
this case is over, this appeal is over? And that was
when the mandate issued. This is only about when that
prong happens. And because you can have --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, you would have a
difference between 2255 and 2254. And on the State
level, you would have a variety of times because some
States -- they don't all make it the mandate. They
don't set finality at the mandate. There may be
different -- there may be different periods of time
before the mandate issues. So, you would have various
time periods for State prisoners. But if you were a
Federal prisoner, then you would have -- there would
only be the one --
MS. MILLETT: No. You have the exact
same test. The answer is easier in the Federal system
because when direct review is concluded -- this Court
said in Clay, look, if all we had to look at was
conclusion of direct review -- it didn't say we didn't
know it -- we don't -- there would be no conclusion for
the mandate --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm not talking about a
test. I'm talking about time periods. There -- there's
a uniform time period for 2255 petitions. There would
not be a uniform time period for 2254 petitions.
MS. MILLETT: That's a result -- but that's
already a result of Jimenez, which had this whole
reopening process that I -- unless the Federal system
were to do that, there -- as this Court noted in Wall v.
Kholi, you can have discretionary applications that can
be called direct review as well. Direct review is not
the linear process that has tried to be portrayed here.
And the time ultimately is the same.
What happened in Clay -- these things are
equivalent. You have the same test. Sometimes the
outcome is different based on what the individual does
and what the State law allows, but you have -- this is
supposed to protect federalism. And the only way to
protect federalism and comity interests is to respect
when the State says it's done. To have the Federal law
tell them you're done and to start the statute of
limitations ruling when State law is saying we're not
done, the appeal continues, and do not start your State
postconviction relief is to put Federal law at
loggerheads with the State law it's supposed to be
respecting.
I would like to reserve the balance of my time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where -- where is
2244(d)(1)? I looked in your brief.
MS. MILLETT: 2244(d)(1) is attached to the
appendix.
JUSTICE SCALIA: To the petition for cert?
MS. MILLETT: Petition for cert --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why isn't it in your brief?
I mean, it's what your brief's about. Why isn't it in
the appendix to your brief? It's also not in the
appendix to the Government's brief. It's also not in an
appendix to the State's brief. I have to go back to the
-- to the petition to get it. I mean, it's what we're
talking about here. I don't understand why the text is
not -- is not in your brief, but that's --
MS. MILLETT: I apologize for the
inconvenience.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Mitchell.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JONATHAN F. MITCHELL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. MITCHELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Fifth Circuit lacked jurisdiction to
review the district court's dismissal of Mr. Gonzalez's
habeas petition because the document issued by the
circuit judge in this case fails to qualify as the
required certificate of appealability under 2253(c)(1).
Justice Kagan asked my opponent how one
should determine whether a document counts as a
certificate of appealability. The answer is found in
Section 2253(c)(3). "A certificate of appealability
under paragraph (1) shall indicate which specific issue
or issues satisfy the substantial showing requirement"
in paragraph (c)(2).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You agree with your
friend that the only fault here was on the part of the
judge and not the Petitioner?
MR. MITCHELL: We agree that the judge is at
fault. The Petitioner did mention in his application
for a COA his speedy trial claim. So, I don't believe
we can fault Mr. Gonzalez for the way he applied for a
COA. But at the same time, Mr. Chief Justice,
Mr. Gonzalez, if he had the opportunity to qualify for a
COA under 2253, should have the opportunity to seek a
new COA, if this Court were to conclude that (c)(3) is
not --
JUSTICE BREYER: But what are -- I mean,
what are we arguing about? It's a -- he should have
filled in the blank and said there's a Speedy Trial Act
issue, and he didn't. The judge didn't. He should have
done it; he didn't.
MR. MITCHELL: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, now I am the court of
appeals judge, I get this, and I say, oh, my God, he
forgot to fill in the right number; I'll tell you what,
I'll fill it in, and I'll sign my name. Is that legal?
MR. MITCHELL: If the court of appeals judge
does it?
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm a judge in the court of
appeals. I have the case here. I say -- I say: Oh, my
God, I've read the appendix. I don't always read
appendices, but sometimes I do. And I notice that
there's blank here, and it's supposed to say Speedy
Trial Act. So, I get out my pen, and I say Speedy Trial
Act, SB. I sign it. Okay? Now, is everything okay?
MR. MITCHELL: If he does that before the
court of appeals issues its judgment, we believe that's
permissible under the statute.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, what are we
arguing about? Why not just say, look, this is like the
Copyright Act registration requirement?
MR. MITCHELL: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, it's not
jurisdictional in the sense that the court has to look
through all these appendices itself to see that
everything is perfect. It's just something you should
do. And if you didn't do it, then in an appropriate
case, the judge could do it himself or waive it or
whatever makes sense in the circumstance. What's wrong
with that?
MR. MITCHELL: The problem in this case, the
court of appeals did not do that. They entered judgment
without a valid certificate --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, suppose we say -- if
they entered judgment without it, we will assume, nunc
pro tunc, they did it.
MR. MITCHELL: Okay, because Mr. Gonzalez --
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the horrible thing
about that?
MR. MITCHELL: Mr. Gonzalez can't qualify
for a COA under the standards this Court has set forth
in Slack and Miller-El, because his speedy trial claim
encounters an insurmountable procedural obstacle. This
is precisely the type of case that 2253 and Slack and
Miller-El are designed to keep out of the Federal
appellate courts.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Mitchell, do you think
the court of appeals could do it nunc pro tunc without
-- without first making the determination that the trial
judge was supposed to have made?
MR. MITCHELL: A circuit judge can issue a
COA under the statute. So --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But he would have to make
the determination required by (c)(1), no?
MR. MITCHELL: He would have to make the
determination, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. And --
MR. MITCHELL: As I understood the question --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that wouldn't
necessarily point him just to the Speedy Trial Act.
He'd have to see what other constitutional claims are in
the case, right?
MR. MITCHELL: That's correct. And often
the courts of appeal will have their own circuit rules
that govern how litigants should seek certificates of
appealability, and there may be a process that the
litigant would have to invoke in order to get one.
JUSTICE BREYER: You tell me. This is a
statute the purpose of which was to speed things up,
which was to help courts of appeals by eliminating
dross --
MR. MITCHELL: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- while focusing on issues
that really do have constitutional issues. Now,
suddenly what's worrying me -- and I don't have the
definite answer -- is if I adopt your interpretation,
this is jurisdictional, I am somehow increasing the
workload of the courts of appeals because they will have
to have staff people going through to see whether every
i is dotted and every t crossed and they did have all
the right things there, and the pain of doing that is if
you don't do it, then you have to do these things over
again. It will be too late. People will get another
argument.
MR. MITCHELL: But, at the same time, many
other appeals that should not have been taken will be
cut off at the district court as they should be.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, are -- are you
accepting Justice Scalia's point that the certificate of
appealability doesn't have to jurisdictionally describe
the substantial constitutional issue?
MR. MITCHELL: No, it must describe the
constitutional issue.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you're disagreeing
with the question he posed to your adversary, that --
MR. MITCHELL: No, as I understand
Justice --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're saying that this
was deficient because, both, it didn't indicate the
issue and because it didn't describe the substantial
constitutional question.
MR. Delaney: Our contention is that a
certificate of appealability must indicate a specific
constitutional claim under (c)(3) to qualify as a
certificate of appealability under (c)(1).
JUSTICE KAGAN: General Mitchell, but you say
that (c)(2) is not jurisdictional; is that correct? You
say (c)(1) and (c)(3) are, but (c)(2) is not?
MR. MITCHELL: That's correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And if that's right, why?
MR. MITCHELL: (C)(2) is phrased differently
from (c)(3). (C)(3) describes the essential content of what a
certificate of appealability must contain. (C)(2), by
contrast, simply says that a certificate of
appealability may issue under paragraph (1) only if the
applicant has made a substantial showing of the denial
of a constitutional right. It's defining the conditions
under which a COA may issue. A wrongly issued COA is
not necessarily one that is patently defective so that
it no longer deserves the title of certificate of
appealability.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But (c)(3) says "shall
indicate" which specific issues satisfy the showing
required by (c)(2). It just seems as if all of these
are a little bit of a piece, and, you know, you can stop
it at (1) or you can go on to (2) and (3). But it seems
to me sort of hard to make the jump here and leave (2)
out of it.
MR. MITCHELL: Well, perhaps analogy from
other areas of appellate jurisdiction -- sometimes a
district court may issue a final judgment for the wrong
party. Perhaps he entered summary judgment, and he
shouldn't. That final judgment may be erroneous, it may
be wrongly issued, but it doesn't mean it deprives the
appellate court of jurisdiction to review what the
district court did.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can we back up and tell
me why which statute we're dealing with, 2253 -- why
that's jurisdictional if "jurisdiction" means, as we
have said, that class of cases that the court is
competent to hear. So, I look at 2254. That's State
habeas.
MR. MITCHELL: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Federal petition by a
State prisoner. And 2255 is a petition by a Federal
prisoner. So, those are the class of cases. The
class of cases are habeas cases, '54 State prisoners,
'55 Federal prisoners.
MR. MITCHELL: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: 2253, it seems to me, is
a processing rule that applies to both categories. It
applies to '54, and it applies to '55, but the classes
of cases are identified in '54 and '55. So, I would
write 2253 as a mandatory processing rule but not -- not
a rule that tells us what class of cases the court is
competent to here.
MR. MITCHELL: Well, 2253(a) reads as though
it's a grant of appellate jurisdiction. It says that in
either the habeas corpus proceeding or in a 2255, the
final order shall be subject to review on appeal by the
court of appeals. It doesn't mention the word
"jurisdiction," but it's phrased in the way that is --
seems as though it's conferring appellate jurisdiction
in cases where a habeas petition or a 2255 motion
precedes the finality in the district court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So that it doubles as --
2254 is jurisdictional; 2255, and then 2253, which tells
how you are to proceed under either one of those, is not
simply a mandatory how you do it but jurisdictional.
MR. MITCHELL: Right, 2253(a) is the
provision that establishes appellate jurisdiction in
habeas cases. And then subsections (b) and (c) narrow
that jurisdictional ground and define the conditions
under which a litigant cannot take an appeal and in
which cases the courts of appeals cannot exercise
appellate jurisdiction.
This Court also has held in Miller-El that
the issuance of certificate of appealability is a
jurisdictional prerequisite to an appeal. And in
holding that, it relied on a long history of treating
both the COA and the earlier certificate of probable
cause.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The feature of this case
that I think is very unsettling is there is an issue for
the court of appeals to decide. It's the timeliness
issue. The court of appeals could not decide the speedy
trial. If -- if this case were to fail because the
trial judge didn't identify the speedy trial issue when
the court of appeals in no way could reach that issue in
this case, isn't that something only a -- a distinction
only a lawyer could love?
(Laughter.)
MR. MITCHELL: Well, we view the purpose of
2253(c) as keeping cases out of the courts of appeals
when habeas petitioners have no chance of obtaining
ultimate habeas relief. It's designed to keep out
petitions that may present interesting statute of
limitations --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If you say -- if you say
that -- here's Judge Gaza, and he says: Yes, there's a
statute of limitations question here; it has to be
decided before we get to the speedy trial. But if the
judge felt that the speedy trial issue was not
meritorious, then why would he grant a certificate of
appealability on the threshold question that you have to
decide before? Because, it seems to me, it would be a
waste of everyone's time if the judge thought that the
speedy trial issue had no merit.
MR. MITCHELL: He can't grant the COA under
Slack. If the constitutional claim has no merit,
then --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Right, but presume, General
Mitchell, that he thinks that it does, but he just
forgot to write down "speedy trial." And the question
is: Why that forgetting to write down "speedy trial"
should make a difference here given that, as Justice
Ginsburg said, in any event the court of appeals
couldn't reach it because of the procedural issue that
it had to reach first?
MR. MITCHELL: Well, the first problem is
the speedy trial thing in this case encounters a
procedural bar. If we put that to one side --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Put that to one side.
MR. MITCHELL: -- and assume that this were
a case where he had a substantial Constitutional claim
and the circuit judge simply forgot to write it down,
the statute requires that the constitutional claim has
to be indicated in writing in the certificate. That
serves --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm a little
confused, okay? And I think it's what Justice Ginsburg
was trying to get at, and Justice Breyer, which is:
What you are requiring and you're saying the statute
requires if, is that for the district court to always reach
the merits of any argument presented in a habeas petition,
to figure out whether it's a substantial argument before
it dismisses on a procedural ground.
MR. MITCHELL: He doesn't have to --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that seems to be
what you're -- you're wanting to happen because a judge
would have to say: I'm dismissing on a procedural
ground, and I believe that the claim is more than
nonfrivolous, that it has a substantial basis.
MR. MITCHELL: He doesn't have --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How does that speed the
habeas process in the normal cases? I mean, in my
experience, what district court judges do is find the
easiest way to dismiss something. If the speedy trial
ground is the easiest, they go that way. I'm sorry. If
it's not --
MR. MITCHELL: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and it's a procedural
bar, they use the procedural bar. They don't create
extra work for themselves.
MR. MITCHELL: Right. He doesn't have to
decide the merits of the speedy trial claim. He just
needs to take a peek at the constitutional claim and see
if it has some chance of being substantial. And if it
encounters a procedural bar, as it does in this case,
because Mr. Gonzalez never sought direct review in the
Texas Court of Criminal Appeals --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what do we do then?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe -- maybe it's
a good time -- you're a good bit more than halfway through
your argument. Maybe it's a good time to switch to the
merits.
MR. MITCHELL: Yes. Thanks.
On the statute of limitations question, this
case turns on the meaning of section 2244(d)(1)(A),
which first establishes the date on which the
conviction, the judgment became final as a potential
starting point for the 1-year limitations period and
then establishes two prongs for determining when that
date of finality occurs. Finality, under the statute,
can occur either at the conclusion of direct review, or
it can occur at the expiration of time for seeking such
review. And the Fifth Circuit correctly held that the
conclusion of direct review prong applies only when the
habeas applicant pursues direct review to its natural
conclusion, by obtaining either a judgment or a denial
of certiorari from the Supreme Court of the United
States.
The expiration of time prong should govern
all other cases, those in which the habeas applicant
allows the time for seeking direct review to expire
before reaching this Court.
JUSTICE KAGAN: General, it seems to me that
Ms. Millett's best argument is an argument just about
the oddity of what would happen if we adopt your
construction of the statute, which is that the time
begins to run before a habeas petitioner actually can
file a State habeas petition, and whether that's so odd
as to make this a -- a wrong way to construe the
statute.
MR. MITCHELL: In some cases, that will
happen. There will be habeas petitioners who have
concluded their direct review process, or they've -- in
this case, they've allowed the time to expire. But the
statute of limitations will start running for Federal
habeas; yet, they won't be able to quite yet go to State
court. But the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In this -- in this very
case, that was so, right? Because the -- the period for
discretionary review expired in August.
MR. MITCHELL: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the mandate issued on
September -- some date in September.
MR. MITCHELL: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, there could be no
State habeas until the mandate issued. So, the days in
between would count against the defendant on the speedy
trial clock, even though he would -- he could not have
filed a State habeas; he could not have stopped the
clock by filing a State habeas.
MR. MITCHELL: That's correct. And it's
only a 45-day window or so in this particular case. And
in most cases, it should only be a few weeks or months.
No one is going to lose their entire 1-year clock
waiting for their ability to seek State postconviction
review to begin.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What happens if it
happens?
MR. MITCHELL: Well, if that were to happen,
then the prisoner should file a protective habeas
petition under Rhines v. Weber. He should file it in
Federal district court and then ask the district judge
to use the stay-and-abeyance procedure that this Court
approved in Rhines, and then wait for his opportunity to
seek State postconviction review and return to Federal
court --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does that make any
sense? Isn't it easier to read it, the statute, the way
your adversary suggests, which would protect both the
right to direct review and the right to collateral
review?
MR. MITCHELL: Well, the Fifth Circuit has
had this regime now for almost 8 years, since Roberts
was decided. And as far as we know, no habeas
petitioner has had to file a protective habeas petition.
And even if it occasionally will happen, it's not much
different than what we currently deal with on mixed
petitions, when a habeas petitioner needs to use the
stay-and-abeyance mechanism in Rhines.
One other point back on jurisdiction. It's
important that we emphasize we asked for this Court to
vacate and remand with instructions to dismiss the
appeal, but the only reason we requested a dismissal of
the appeal is because Mr. Gonzalez should not get a
certificate of appealability under the standards of
Slack and Miller-El.
If there are other habeas applicants who are
victims of (c)(3) errors committed by circuit judges,
and that error is discovered later in the appellate
process, the proper remedy should be normally to allow
that habeas applicant to seek a new certificate of
appealability --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why then? I mean,
you can read the statute differently. You can say: I'm
now the court of appeals judge. I look at it. Lo and
behold, there are two blanks. But on the basis of what
I've read in the briefs and the record, I can say that
the appellant has made a substantial showing of a denial
of a constitutional right. I know the record, and he
has these things there. And also, I know what they are.
Okay?
So, I fill in the blanks, or the chief judge
of the circuit fills in the blanks with the panel's
approval. Now, the only reason for doing that is that
it saves everybody a lot of time and that it costs
nobody anything. So -- so, why not, since the language
permits it, do that?
MR. MITCHELL: Because it would also -- Your
Honor's proposal would allow habeas applicants such as
Mr. Gonzalez to take appeals when the statute precludes
them from taking them. And --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, yes, you're giving the
conclusion.
MR. MITCHELL: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: I've just said the statute
doesn't. They can take the appeal, and they're not
going to get anywhere because of this error of the lower
court judge --
MR. MITCHELL: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- unless the court of
appeals, having looked at the record a little bit,
discovers that there is a substantial constitutional
question, and they know what it is, and then they fill
in the blanks.
MR. MITCHELL: That doesn't necessarily --
JUSTICE BREYER: And in the language -- it
allows that, I believe, and the purpose would allow it,
for, after all, the purpose is to be more efficient, not
less efficient. And I can't think of any harm that's
done reading it that way.
So, you tell me what is the harm that's
done.
MR. MITCHELL: Several harms. One of the
functions of 2253(c) is to protect the habeas applicants
who have substantial constitutional claims, and avoid
their habeas petitions from being crowded out in a sea
of meritless petitions, all of which can go up on
appeal if circuit judges --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. They can't, you
see, because I'd have to be able to fill in those
blanks, or goodbye. So, it doesn't get any meritless
ones up there. The only ones that come up are merit --
merited.
MR. MITCHELL: Well, it would have to be
both merited and also not encounter an insurmountable
procedural obstacle, which is the problem that plagues
Mr. Gonzalez position here.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh no, if there's an
insurmountable obstacle -- although, as in this case
perhaps we don't reach the constitutional issue -- there
is one there, so it is appealable, but we say we do not
reach it because there is this impossible procedural
obstacle that here blocks it.
There we have a system that seems more
efficient and seems what is being argued, and all we
have to do is say this is not a jurisdictional
requirement in (2) or (3), and there we have it.
Now, what's wrong with it?
MR. MITCHELL: Well, if States are allowed
to waive (c)(3), it will open opportunities for
gamesmanship. For example, a State's lawyers could
decide whether to invoke (c)(3) based on the strength of
opposing counsel.
I see my time has expired.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you want to
finish your sentence?
MR. MITCHELL: We ask the Court to vacate
and remand or, in the alternative, affirm.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's a different
sentence.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. O'Connell.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANN O'CONNELL
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MS. O'CONNELL: Mr. Chief --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have any idea of
how much the jurisdictional question plagues the courts
below? Meaning, is it -- is it so complicated that
people below don't really know what district courts are
granting COAs on?
MS. O'CONNELL: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and do -- circuit
courts don't understand what the issues are somehow by
the opinion below?
MS. O'CONNELL: No. I think that the -- the
court of appeals in this case understood exactly what
the issue was. In footnote 1 of its opinion, it said
the Petitioner has briefed these four other -- these
four constitutional claims in addition to the procedural
claim that was in the certificate of appealability. A
COA was not granted on any of those issues; so, we don't
have jurisdiction to consider them.
Nobody has made a determination in this case
that there is a single constitutional issue that could
potentially warrant habeas relief for Petitioner. I
don't think it's a matter of the courts being confused.
It's a matter of what the -- what the statute is trying
to do is getting everybody to focus up front on why this
case should go forward in the court of appeals.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, if someone on the
court of appeals noticed that, yes, the certificate
pinpoints the only case -- only question that the panel
can decide at this juncture, but there is a lurking
constitutional question, then isn't 28 U.S.C. 1653
exactly what the panel would do? That is, 1653 says
that defective jurisdictional allegations can be amended
in the trial or the appellate court. And so, all that
would have had to have happened is very much in line
with Justice Breyer's questions, is the judge on
the panel said, oh, the certificate of appealability
didn't mention the speedy trial issue. So, counsel,
would you like to amend, or we on our own will amend to
put that question in?
MS. O'CONNELL: That could certainly happen.
There should be a presumption -- if the court of appeals
amended the certificate of appealability, an appeal
could go forward on that issue. That didn't happen in
this case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the appeal couldn't
go forward on that issue because that issue hasn't been
decided below. The one thing we know is the speedy
trial issue -- the case cannot go forward on the speedy
trial issue. Isn't that right?
MS. O'CONNELL: Justice Ginsburg, I don't --
first of all, I don't think that's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why?
MS. O'CONNELL: I think that just because
the district court kicked this case out on a procedural
issue doesn't mean that the court of appeals couldn't
reach the substantive issue if it reversed the
procedural issue.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How common is it for
courts of appeals to reach substantive issues in the
first instance --
Ms. O'CONNELL: Well, it --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- when there's no
decision of the district court?
MS. O'CONNELL: It certainly could send it
back, but if that issue was briefed and if it was
briefed again in the court of appeals, the court of
appeals certainly could decide it. There's no bar to
the court of appeals deciding --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wouldn't -- wouldn't the
most sensible procedure be -- let's forget the
intricacies of 2244 and '53. But you -- you have a case
where there's a statute of limitations question, and
that has come up for review. Wouldn't the court of
appeals 99 out of 100 times say now the substantive --
since we've decided that the case is timely, then it is
district court's function to resolve the substantive
issue?
MS. O'CONNELL: Even if the court of appeals
would normally do that, this Court said in Slack that if
the court of appeal -- or if the district court kicks
the case out on a procedural ground, the certificate of
appealability has to indicate at least that the
procedural issue is debatable and also that a
constitutional issue in the case is debatable.
Nobody has ever made that determination in
this case. If -- if a court of appeals judge would have
noticed it and reissued a new certificate that certified
that constitutional question, that would be fine, and
the case could go forward, but if this --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If the court of
appeals -- if a court of appeals judge can do that, can
we do that?
MS. O'CONNELL: This Court could do that.
Section 2253(c)(1) gives circuit justices the authority
to issue amended certificates of appealability.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You read -- you read
that to be any circuit justice or only the circuit
justice from the circuit in which the case comes from?
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, the court has
procedures in place where, like, an application for a
certificate of appealability would normally go to the
circuit justice and then, I suppose, could be referred
to the Court.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- if I say that.
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, but this Court's
procedures indicate that. I think that under the
statute, sure, any circuit justice could issue a
certificate of appealability. That might --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Circuit judge -- or a
circuit judge or judge?
MS. O'CONNELL: A circuit justice or judge.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes.
MS. O'CONNELL: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, I could just sign this
tomorrow and that would moot this case and get rid of
it.
(Laughter.)
MS. O'CONNELL: I don't think so.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. Because Justice
Breyer is not the circuit justice for the Fifth Circuit.
MS. O'CONNELL: Under this Court's
procedures the application, I think, would have to go to
Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
(Laughter.)
MS. O'CONNELL: -- and then come back.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So there!
MS. O'CONNELL: However, even if this Court
were to issue a certificate of appealability, if the --
if the Court determined that there was actually a
debatable constitutional issue in this case, which no
Federal judge has done to this point, I don't think that
it could still reach the procedural issue that's
presented in the second question.
The court of appeals didn't have
jurisdiction to issue a decision on that -- on that
question. So, the only remedy would be for this Court
to vacate that opinion and either send it back with an
order to dismiss if it didn't think there was a
debatable constitutional issue, or let the court of
appeals reissue its opinion or redecide the case how it
wants to.
I don't think the Court should issue a
certificate of appealability in this case. Because it
has to go back anyway, it makes more sense to let the
court of appeals tell us if -- if what they thought is
that there was a debatable constitutional issue here on
the speedy trial claim. It's not clear at all that they
did think that. Footnote 1 of their opinion says they
-- the Petitioner briefed the speedy trial claim, but we
don't have jurisdiction to consider it. It indicates
that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. --
MS. O'CONNELL: -- that they didn't think
that the speedy trial claim was implicitly included in
the certificate of appealability.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. O'Connell, could I just
clarify your argument? You disagree with the State of
Texas, isn't that right, because you think (c)(1),
(c)(2), and (c)(3) are all jurisdictional; is that
correct?
MS. O'CONNELL: That's right.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, I mean, (c)(2) is -- it
appears to make a substantive inquiry jurisdictional,
that in any case a court is going to have to make
this -- is going to have to ask itself whether a
substantial showing of the denial of a constitutional
right has been made, and that would seem to be a very
odd thing to do for jurisdictional purposes.
MS. O'CONNELL: I -- I don't think it is,
Justice Kagan. It's no different than under section
1331. A court would have to take a peek at the merits
to see if there is a -- a Federal question in the case
before letting it move forward. It's just looking at
what the class of cases is that section 2253(c) --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, in most cases, the
Federal question inquiry is just: Look, I'm looking at
your complaint. Do you cite a Federal statute? Do you
cite a Federal constitutional provision? If so, there's
a Federal question in the case.
What (c)(2) says is, have you made a
substantial showing of the denial of a constitutional
right? That's a very different inquiry.
MS. O'CONNELL: It is, and once a judge
issues a certificate of appealability on that question,
it should be presumed that it's been satisfied.
What we're saying in -- when we say that
(c)(2) is jurisdictional is that if it becomes --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, is it a jurisdictional
rule that we're -- rule that we're going to presume that
it's been satisfied? That's a sort of odd thing to do
for jurisdictional rules, right? Jurisdictional rules,
we sua sponte have to look at them, and we have to be
serious about them.
MS. O'CONNELL: Yes. But if a -- if a
district judge or a court of appeals judge has made a
determination that there's a constitutional issue that's
debatable, going forward that seems to be something that
would be extremely hard to overturn.
JUSTICE ALITO: So, if the panel looks at
the merits of the constitutional issue as to which there
is a reference in the certificate of appealability, when
it -- when it writes its opinion it first has to ask
itself, was there a substantial showing? And if there
wasn't, then it will say we'll dismiss this claim.
And then -- but if it says, well, there was
a substantial showing, but it's wrong, then we'll
affirm. Is that -- is that right?
MS. O'CONNELL: I mean, I think that could
happen. In most cases, it's not going to be an issue.
If somebody certified that it's debatable, then somebody
has made that showing. If it turns out -- like, for
example, if there was, if the petitioner had said my
right to testify at trial was violated, they wouldn't
let me testify; and then that issue is certified and
then it turns out when it gets to the merits panel that
he did in fact testify and it was a totally frivolous
claim, yes, I think that the court of appeals should
dismiss the case at that point for lack of jurisdiction.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Then let's go on to (c)(3),
because (c)(3) seems to be just a documentation
requirement. In other words, let's presume that (c)(2)
has been satisfied; there was a substantial showing
made; and there is a documentation error and (c) --
under (c)(3). Why should that be jurisdictional? A
sort of -- you know, there has been a substantial
showing made. There's a documentation error. It's an
error that the habeas petitioner has absolutely no
control over. Why should we view that as a
jurisdictional bar?
MS. O'CONNELL: Justice Kagan, I think it's
because we don't actually know that a substantial
showing has been made until a Federal judge tells us
that. We could -- you know, you could assume that a
substantial showing was made. It's not clear that --
that Judge Garza thought that or that any judge on the court of
appeals thought that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MS. O'CONNELL: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Millett, you
have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. MILLETT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Justice Kagan, the question is whether State
prisoners now should be worse off than Federal
prisoners. It's not some prisoners that will fall in
this gap; it is 99-plus percent of prisoners because in
Texas -- in Texas -- only about 1 percent file
discretionary petitions for review. Far less than
that -- 99.7, 99.8 percent -- do not seek cert on direct
review from this Court. So, we're now in some backwards
world where we -- Clay is going to drive the rule for
Federal prisoners, is going to drive the statute --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't understand that, Ms.
Millett. I mean, the situation in this case is
presented because the Petitioner here didn't seek review
in the highest State court. The situation is not
presented because the Petitioner did not file a cert
petition.
MS. MILLETT: Well, the question is what one
means by the so-called natural conclusion of direct
review. Now, statistically -- this is a statutory
provision written for State prisoners by Congress, to
address State prisoners; and if the natural thing that
happens in the world is 99 percent do not even seek
review in the State's highest court -- and I'm
extrapolating from Texas; I don't know all 50 States,
but I have no reason to think that's anomalous.
Ninety-nine percent don't file petitions for
discretionary review. What kind -- why would Congress
have written this statute in a way that's going to
create a gap, that is going to cause prisoners who
wouldn't otherwise file to now file? Instead of 2,000,
they're now going to have 102,000 petitions for
discretionary review, and the Texas courts --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry. Let me make sure I
understand you. You're saying 99 percent don't file
petitions in Texas's highest court?
MS. MILLETT: Correct. Correct. And I'm --
this is -- the Texas judicial reports are -- are
available online that record this. I'm -- I'm looking
at the number of petitions each year. Roughly the last
3 years, in the 2,000-ish range. Convictions in the
State, more than 100,000 range. And so --
JUSTICE ALITO: You're saying 99 percent of
the -- of the defendants who take an appeal through the
Texas system don't file a petition with the Texas Court
of Criminal Appeals? Or is it 99 percent of those who
don't do that and then file a Federal habeas petition?
I would imagine it's the former, right?
MS. MILLETT: I'm talking about the former.
Right. But the point --
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes.
MS. MILLETT: The point is that  the argument
here is -- we are --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Because under Federal habeas
review, these petitioners are not going to be in good
shape, right? They're going to have their claims
unexhausted or defaulted.
MS. MILLETT: They -- they may or may not.
As we pointed out, in the Kinsey case the Texas court
of -- the Texas courts have actually entertained a
speedy trial claim in -- at both levels. It was raised
on direct review, and then it wasn't, but -- right. It
was also -- they raised in both forums. So, it casts
some doubt on the procedural default argument advanced
here, but you're right. Of course, there -- there are
issues here, but the question is whether Congress wanted
a gap.
In Johnson v. United States, this Court
construed 2255, I think it was subsection (4) there, the
one on -- if a conviction is overturned that was used to
enhance. And then when do you -- what is the timing to
come back and file a habeas claim to change your
sentence that relied on a now-vacated prior conviction.
And this Court said we're not going to
construe this language to create a gap between when
the -- when the finality attaches and when the time that
you can actually file for postconviction review
commences.
The whole point of this, of 2244, was to
respect State processes. It's not another exhaustion
requirement; it's respect the State. And Texas couldn't
be clearer: In Ex parte Johnson footnote 2, it says the
appeal continues -- sorry, may I finish the sentence?
The appeal continues until the mandate
issues. Federal law shouldn't change that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I just have a -- I
don't understand the 99 percent figure. That includes
people who entered a plea bargain and presumably gave up
the right to appeal?
MS. MILLETT: It's 99 percent of -- the
way --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, 99 percent of
the convictions that are entered. So, that would
include all the plea bargains. Those people obviously
didn't appeal, is what --
MS. MILLETT: Some of them did. Mr. Jimenez
was a plea bargain. Some of them do.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Thank you,
counsel; counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:01 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
59:17
amicus 1:23 appeals 3:10 4:9 39:9 back 13:4 18:9
45:20 14:7 15:20,23 approved 41:9 51:10,17 58:12
56:16 18:10,24 21:11 argued 44:25 55:24
30:16 27:11 31:7 28:16,23 29:13 28:4 29:1 bar 5:5,11 37:3
4:12,15,17 5:8 36:23 38:17 16:17 21:5,9 bargains 59:9
10:20,25 11:6 47:13 48:2,6 37:16,17 38:21 basically 22:10
23:8 24:11 49:13 51:7,13 57:17 58:4 becoming 23:12
42:3,4 43:11 57:11 asked 21:24 begs 21:3
49:2 57:9 1:16 asking 8:18 2:4,7,10,14 3:7
59:10 appellant 42:18 asks 9:8 55:15
5:24,25 6:21 30:2 33:11,16 assume 29:16 28:23 37:23
10:1 9:9 10:3,4,10 35:7 42:9 47:5 attached 26:9 best 39:19
53:22 11:11,14 13:7 appendices attaches 7:17 bit 33:6 38:20
15:24 16:20,22 28:18 29:6 58:16 43:16
30:22 31:21 28:17 attention 4:9 blanks 42:16,22
33:2 35:9 39:10,15 42:11 Austin 1:19 44:11
43:22 46:13 47:8,14 43:4 44:4 49:16 blue 4:11
29:4 29:25 30:18 47:14 49:3,9 claims 30:17 complicated
30:24 35:14,18,21 49:23 50:5 44:5 46:12 46:1
37:13 37:2,6 38:15 51:1,16 52:3 57:21 complies 13:15
43:7,10 38:25 40:4,9 53:7,24 clarify 52:5 comply 17:16
44:9 40:22 44:19 certificates class 33:21 34:2 concerned 22:7
50:1,11 46:9,16,22,25 30:21 49:17 34:3,11 52:22 conclude 23:24
47:16,20 48:1 certification classes 34:8 28:1
50:12 51:3,13 54:8,12 clear 4:25 9:4 concludes 19:18
51:16 52:12,20 certifying 6:6 13:9,9,10 14:8 20:24
51:22 56:3 57:24 chance 36:1 clearer 58:22 20:16,19 24:1
35:3,6 4:22 26:23 clock 40:18,20 35:4
8:9,10 52:22,23 54:7 45:11,16,19,23 27:21,23,25 conflict 23:11
casts 58:3 49:12,18 50:16 28:1 29:22 confused 37:12
16:13 categories 34:7 55:10,12,16 30:8 32:24,24 46:19
19:9 cause 6:10 18:3 59:1,7,13 35:12 36:15 Congress 8:10
27:15 18:3 35:13 choose 23:20 46:14 8:20 9:4 10:23
30:10 56:20 circuit 7:21,21 COAs 46:3 11:4 13:9
cert 26:11,12 9:10 19:22 collateral 41:15 17:20 56:11,18
55:23 56:6 20:13 27:4,7 colleague 17:23 58:6
33:3 certainly 11:21 30:7,20 37:7 colleagues 8:1 consequence
35:3 42:8 14:9 47:12 39:8 41:17 come 11:9,10 19:5
52:6,7,7 48:11,14 42:8,23 44:8 44:12 48:20 consider 4:4
53:3,10 certificate 3:19 46:5 49:16,19 50:23 58:12 9:12,15 46:15
3:23 4:13,16 49:19,20,24 comes 4:18,21 51:23
5:12,20,24,25 50:4,6,7,8,17 9:24,25 11:7 considered
10:2,4,9 11:11 29:10 comity 25:23 7:23
11:24 12:1 27:12 29:14 29:23 32:10 common 48:5 13:16 14:4
14:7 31:20 32:9,11 36:16 37:6,8 compelled 11:22 15:12 30:17
21:4,5 32:19,20 33:1 37:23 38:12,13 compels 23:22 31:5,22,24
23:7 35:9,12 36:10 46:13 51:20,22 competent 32:7,10,23
37:6,8 27:10 46:2,6,19 48:6 default 58:4 39:4
42:19 course 7:6 10:11 56:23 57:25 defaulted 57:22 difference 24:15
44:5,20 17:11 58:5 court's 3:16 defective 32:25 36:22
47:2 court 1:1,14 3:9 12:21 13:12 47:4 different 4:5
51:3 3:10,16 4:4,10 14:11 27:5 defendant 19:20 24:19,19 25:20
52:14 4:18 5:14,17 48:23 50:2,18 40:17 41:22 45:16
6:22 7:7 8:1 covering 16:22 defendants 57:9 52:18 53:5
10:23 12:14,19,19 56:20 58:15 define 35:4 32:17 42:14
39:21 13:1,5,18 Criminal 1:7 defining 32:23 difficulty 15:21
15:23 16:1,4,5 crossed 31:11 Delaney 32:8 19:18,18,20
19:19 20:11,14 45:21 15:12 32:22 22:25 23:24
21:13,16,18,19 cut 31:18 52:14 53:4 25:15 38:16
32:18 27:3 28:1,9,13 D denying 9:11 40:3 41:15
58:23,24 31:18 33:12,16 22:14,19 23:15 depend 21:24 direction 9:4
35:16,17,20 dates 22:5 23:19 31:23 32:6 52:5
39:2 38:3,17 39:12 deal 41:22 32:18 31:25
39:17 40:7 dealing 33:19 describing 6:12 discovered 42:9
42:15 43:13,15 debatable 49:5,6 deserves 33:1 discretion 9:15
48:1,2,10,13 decide 4:19 5:10 determination 25:14 40:10
40:21 49:1,2,2,8,12 36:12 38:12 30:5,10,12 dismiss 9:19
57:2,2 49:13,15,21,25 45:7 47:1 46:16 49:7 38:4 42:2
51:12,15,18 decided 3:12 determinations dismissal 27:5
31:19 57:10,24 58:8 47:19 48:22 19:9 22:1 dismisses 37:18
45:8 58:14 deciding 7:25 27:10 dismissing
55:10 courts 11:6,20 14:3 48:15 determined 37:22
18:9,10 30:2 decision 10:10 17:12 51:2 distinction
emphasize 42:1 58:20 56:1 57:12,19 footnote 23:8
15:8,10 encounter 44:15 expect 7:6,6 federalism 23:6 58:22
31:18 encounters experience 38:3 25:22,23 foreclosed 13:17
34:21 29:24 37:2 expiration 21:14 felt 36:9 forever 17:4
38:3 38:15 21:21 39:7,14 Fifth 19:22 forget 48:17
46:2 ended 21:4 24:5 expire 39:16 20:12 27:4 forgetting 36:21
ends 23:2 40:4 39:8 41:17 forgoes 19:20
53:18 enhance 58:11 expired 40:10 50:17 forgone 20:25
16:19 59:3,8 21:1 file 39:23 41:5,6 forks 22:19
entertained explain 10:11 41:20 55:21 formal 17:13
54:18,21 entire 4:21 extra 38:10 56:25 57:10,12 forth 18:9 29:22
40:24 extraordinary 58:12,17 forums 58:3
25:19 extrapolating filing 14:15 4:13,15,17 5:5
error 17:1 42:9 extremely 53:21 fill 28:11,12 10:20,21,25
42:24 54:25 44:10 15:8 17:12
18:14,22 54:14 33:12,14 34:16 46:11,12
everyone's fair 8:5 23:16 24:18 front 46:21
Ex 23:7 58:22 far 9:6 16:12 58:16 function 4:8
44:25 exaggerating Federal 4:23 first 8:14 11:20 13:8
17:15 example 7:1 9:7 25:12,24 26:3 22:18 30:5 G
39:6 45:6 54:10 30:1 33:25 36:25 37:1 G 3:1
51:10 exclude 11:23 34:1,4 40:5 39:1 47:23 gamesmanship
58:7,15 52:12,13 53:12 22:15,16,17 12:13 17:10 14:21
17:17,20 56:20,22 57:20 47:12,15 54:7implicitly 52:2 intricacies 48:18
57:21 58:14 happened 21:8 important 9:1 invalid 6:1,19
32:12 29:18,21 38:16 13:6 15:9,13 44:22 invoke 30:23
39:18 42:4 43:5 24:13 41:2,3 incentive 7:8 45:7
12:12,18 good 38:20,20 53:21 inconvenience 16:21 20:20
24:14 38:21 57:20 harder 8:17 26:22 35:9
33:18,25 goodbye 44:11 harm 43:24 44:1incorrect 6:22 issue 4:3,3,5,6
35:14 govern 30:21 harms 44:3 6:22 10:5 4:24,25 5:19
37:12 39:14 hate 24:8 increasing 31:8 5:21 6:9 7:9,21
Government's hear 3:3 33:22 indicate 5:21 9:10,11 10:17
47:17,22 26:16 held 5:14,17 8:24 11:14 10:19,20 11:1
48:5,9 grant 34:14 19:15 20:22 27:13 32:5,9 11:8,15,19,25
36:10,15 35:8 39:8 33:4 49:4 50:3 11:25 12:1,3,5
ground 14:23 57:1 indictment 16:2 28:6 30:7
guess 7:12 hold 19:6 individuals 35:15,17,19,20
15:4,8 holding 13:11 14:22 36:9,14,24
17:12 H 13:13 20:5 initial 17:13 44:20 46:10,17
19:11 habeas 3:13 35:11 inquiry 52:11,24 47:9,15,18,18
24:4,5 13:16 27:6 honestly 22:13 53:5 47:20,21 48:2
33:7 33:23 34:3,15 Honor's 43:4 instance 13:4 48:3,4,12,24
40:6 44:7 34:20 35:3 horrible 29:19 48:7 49:5,6,17 50:4
47:15,18 36:1,2 37:16 Houston 14:12 INSTITUTIO... 51:1,3,5,8,12
49:11,23 38:2 39:10,15 humanly 14:18 1:8 51:15,19 53:19
51:17 39:22,23 40:2 14:22 15:7 instructions 53:23 54:7,12
40:6,16,19,20 42:2 issued 3:20 4:13
13:2,3 54:25 57:12,19 10:20 11:19 interests 25:23 40:12,16
16:13 58:12 12:11 18:6 interlocutory issues 4:16 5:22
22:15,16 halfway 38:20 34:9 4:19 8:24 9:9,20
23:11,13 handing 7:25 identifies 4:16 intermediate 10:6 11:2,15
31:10 hang 16:6 4:23 16:25 21:11,13,19 12:8 23:8
43:12 happen 12:19,21 identify 3:23 4:8 interpret 14:20 24:20 27:14
31:4,5 39:2,11 20:7,10,22 52:18,23 53:11 23:23 48:17
46:6,14 judicial 8:6 22:2,22 23:10 54:17 55:3,17 54:17,19
53:7 58:6 18:12 57:3 23:25 24:6,14 56:2,24 57:19 level 13:10,11
jump 33:8 25:6 26:7,11 keep 30:1 36:2 24:16
jurisdiction 27:9,16,23 KENNEDY likes 18:15
9:12,14 30:3,9,13,15 kicked 48:1 36:4,7 38:24
20:1,2 27:4 33:11,16 32:4,12,16 Kinsey 57:24 line 47:6
33:20 34:14,18 33:3,18,25 know 4:25 12:24 linear 25:16
25:11 34:19 35:2,7 34:6,22 35:14 20:4 22:25 lingers 17:4
41:25 46:15 36:5,18,22 23:17 25:4 litigant 30:23
4:1 5:5,11,13 38:18,19 39:18 46:2 47:19 little 12:12 33:6
2:6 26:25 8:15,23 9:5 41:2,12 42:13 56:15 Lo 42:15
7:1,20,20 16:14,24 17:4 44:9,18 45:11 26:4
9:10 10:3 18:20 19:2 45:16,19,24 L long 16:18 35:11
12:20,22 29:5 31:8 46:5,23 47:7 lack 14:13 54:16 longer 33:1
14:1 32:13 33:20 47:17,22,24 lacked 27:4 look 11:7 14:17
34:23,25 35:4 48:5,9,16 ladder 24:2,4,5 18:11 21:20,20
35:10 45:1,25 49:12,18,19,20 language 4:14 21:21,22 22:3
47:4 52:7,11 49:24 50:1,4,6 8:22 9:2,6,17 25:2,2 29:1,5
30:6,7 52:16 53:10,11 50:8,9,11,16 14:8 20:2,7,12 33:22 42:15
36:6,9 53:14,14 54:22 50:16,17,20,21 20:15 22:18 52:24 53:15
37:7,21 55:2 50:24 51:25 43:1,21 58:15 looked 12:22
42:15,22 jurisdictionally 52:4,10,18,23 late 31:14 26:8 43:16
47:7 13:17 31:21 53:11,22 54:17 latest 22:4 looking 17:19
50:6,7 jurists 10:5 55:3,10,12,16 Laughter 35:23 52:21,24 57:4
51:4 justice 1:7,22 55:17 56:2,24 45:18 50:14,22 looks 53:22
3:3,8 4:2,22 57:8,16,19 law 4:25 6:21 lose 22:10,11,16
5:10,15,19 6:3 59:1,7,13 7:23 18:13 22:23 23:1,17
17:10,24 7:16,21,21 8:7 26:3,4 58:25 lot 42:25
38:3 8:7,8,18 9:8,18 K lawyer 35:22 love 35:22
44:8 10:1,14,16,24 Kagan 6:25 7:11 lawyers 45:6 lower 43:12
14:3 11:23 12:12,17 23:10 24:7 leads 17:19
22:1,8,9 13:20 15:3,6 27:9 32:12,16 leave 33:8 M
23:12 15:15 16:11,16 33:3 36:18 legal 28:12 mail 14:13
29:13,16 18:18 19:4,10 37:4 39:18 letting 52:21 mailbox 14:13
19:12,24 20:4 51:25 52:4,10 let's 6:8 22:2 maintain 8:14
24:12,17 7:5,15,18 8:8 moot 50:12 nutty 6:25 41:9
25:5 8:16 9:14,22 motion 34:20 opposing 45:8
58:24 10:7,14,15,22 move 52:21 O options 22:20
17:6 12:7,17 14:9 16:24 oath 6:11,15 3:6 26:25
15:4,14,17 obligated 9:21 45:20
13:6 19:23 20:1,6,9 name 28:12 13:15 51:11
59:17 20:14 21:2 narrow 35:3 obligatory 17:22 orders 15:19
26:14 23:21 24:1,8 39:10 56:9,12 44:16,19,23 originally 21:13
28:3 24:24 25:10 naturally 23:14 obtaining 36:1 outcome 25:20
33:15 26:9,12,21 necessarily 39:11 overturn 53:21
42:13 55:12,14,16 30:16 32:25 obviously 9:15 overturned
52:10 56:3,8 57:2,14 43:20 59:9 58:10
56:3 57:17,23 59:5 necessary 16:11 occasionally O'Connell 1:21
Millett's 39:19 need 7:13 9:4 occur 39:6,7 45:23 46:4,8
misspoke 17:5 41:23 odd 12:12 39:23 48:8,11,25
15:13 new 10:2,9 17:1 office 7:19 50:23,25 52:1
47:9 Mitchell 1:19 Ninety-nine officials 7:22 55:3,11
44:12 27:2,19 28:8 nonfrivolous 44:18 47:8 P
29:12,18,21 normal 38:2 28:21,21 29:18 page 2:2 4:11,11
30:19 31:3,16 49:1,23 59:13 panel 9:21 10:8
32:15,17 33:10 notice 13:22,22 18:5 53:6 17:9,22 46:25
38:12,22 35:1,24 36:15 28:18 online 57:4 54:13
53:23 36:19 37:1,5 noticeable 8:21 open 17:7 45:5 panel's 42:23
37:19,25 38:7 noticed 46:24 operative 4:14 paper 7:2 8:4
30:1 41:4,17 43:3,9 November 1:11 51:13,21 53:25 paragraph 8:11
42:6 43:14,20 44:3 now-vacated opponent 27:9 8:14 27:13,15
3:5,6,8 mixed 41:22 number 28:11 45:5 part 14:1,20
24:3 56:4,6 precedent 13:12 48:17 Q
petitioners 36:1 precedes 34:21 procedures qualify 27:7,24
40:22 36:3 41:23 10:18 29:25 proceeding 7:9,12 10:17
14:23 56:17,22 57:1 prerequisite proceedings 13:2,8 17:8,18
3:6 pick 23:13 51:6 56:4,6 18:6 21:17 36:7,11,20
piece 7:2 8:4 presenting 21:3 22:11 23:1 38:24 43:18
ping-ponging 12:20 59:3 38:2 40:3 47:2,11 48:19
31:10 place 6:12 49:22 54:19 58:20 53:7 55:17
46:2 plagues 44:16 presumed 53:8 processing 18:8 56:8 58:6
45:25 presuming 34:7,10 questions 4:18
56:13 plea 59:3,9,12 presumption promotion 18:2 47:7
57:8 please 3:9 27:3 9:3,3 14:20 prong 21:5,6,14 quit 22:10,17,23
59:2,5,7 point 14:10 19:7 47:13 21:20,21,25 23:18 24:7
40:9 39:3 41:25 prisoner 13:13 prongs 21:23 quote 20:15,17
57:15,17 58:19 34:1,2 41:5 proper 42:10
points 20:16 24:21 34:3,4 protect 25:22,23 R 3:1
position 8:16 pro 13:13 15:21 41:20 raised 5:6 12:8
26:11,12 24:6 35:12 providing 15:25 range 57:6,7
27:6 possible 13:14 problem 17:3 provision 5:23 reach 10:12
34:1,20 14:18,22 15:7 18:15 29:12 35:2 53:1 35:20 36:24,25
39:23 16:13 37:1 44:16 56:11 37:15 44:20,22
56:7 post 6:5 procedural 13:2 purpose 30:25 48:3,6 51:5
postconviction 29:24 36:24 35:24 43:22,23 reached 12:1,15
3:7 9:8 41:10 58:17 38:8,9,15 13:1 52:16 reaching 39:17
27:18,20 potential 39:2 44:16,22 46:12 pursues 39:10 read 11:17
41:20,23 potentially 48:1,4 49:3,5 put 24:7 26:3 16:13 19:16,16
51:22 46:18 51:5 58:4 37:3,4 47:11 19:17,25,25
55:15 practical 13:6 procedure 41:8 p.m 59:16 20:10,10 23:14
41:13 13:25 14:15 48:20 55:22,24 S 30:17 31:10
49:18 required 3:24 56:4,10,14,18 S 2:1 3:1 38:13 44:10
5:22 11:15 56:23 57:20 satisfied 14:24 45:9 52:20
43:25 33:5 revision 17:21 satisfy 5:22 40:25 41:10
42:3,24 18:2 27:14 41:24 saying 10:3 20:25 39:7,16
29:2 45:2 RICK 1:6 11:18 18:24 seen 12:21 13:12
requirements right 3:21 5:13 37:14 53:9 seized 6:13
55:14 37:8,15 19:3,10 22:10 8:11,22,24 sense 5:4 6:24
43:16 resolve 48:23 30:18 31:12 22:3,7,13,19 sensible 48:17
resources 8:2 32:16,23 33:24 23:2,8,15,22 sentence 8:14
1:20,24 2:7,11 52:15 53:5,14 Scalia 5:10,15 serves 37:10
result 15:16 4:22 26:23 15:6,15 18:18 show 18:7
return 41:10 41:18 45:11,16 26:11,13 30:3 5:22 11:15
18:24 19:18,18 Roughly 57:5 se 13:13 15:22 42:18 52:14
20:25 21:1,4,6 34:10,11 53:12 searched 6:12 54:20,24 55:5
23:1,24 24:2 rules 14:15,20 24:3 51:6 side 18:7 37:3,4
21:3 47:9,19,20 38:24 39:5,21 suggestion tells 34:11,23
34:25 51:20,22 52:2 39:25 40:5 23:10,13 55:5
58:1 41:13 42:14 suggests 23:19 terms 4:24
23:19 53:15 48:19 50:4 summary 33:13 test 20:18 24:25
staff 31:10 52:25 56:1,19 supported 6:11 25:7,19
standards 29:22 10:22 13:9 supporting 1:23 54:14
start 18:16 stay-and-abey... supports 23:6 Texas 1:6,20
42:6 40:5 step 5:13 9:8 29:15 52:6 55:21,21
started 21:17 steps 8:20 49:24 56:15,23 57:3
State 3:15 4:25 stopped 21:10 30:6 Texas's 57:1
38:5 16:6,24 18:19 strength 45:7 39:12 23:21 26:19
58:23 18:19 19:5,10 strip 14:21 sure 3:22 50:4 textual 14:14
54:23 21:22 23:2,5 structure 10:25 switch 38:21 Thank 26:23
20:4 25:21,24 26:1 subject 17:21 18:13 55:11,16 59:13
26:2,4 33:22 34:16 system 24:25 Thanks 38:23
32:4 34:1,3 39:23 submitted 59:15 25:12 44:24 thing 9:1 29:19
38:1 40:6,16,19,20 59:17 57:10 37:2 47:19
41:2 40:25 41:10 subsection 52:16 53:13
45:24 52:5 55:17 23:14,19 58:9 T 56:12
50:6,9 56:5,11,12 subsections 35:3 t 2:1,1 31:11 things 6:13 7:9
39:13 45:4,21 17:24,25 18:13 35:5 38:13 10:3,7,7,12
14:14 State's 21:12 27:14 31:22 57:9 12:22 13:5
32:9 26:17 45:6 32:6,22 37:6 taken 8:23 18:21 14:9,10 15:1
56:14 37:17,24 38:14 31:17 17:7,15 19:4,7
13:3 status 19:9 53:4 54:1,4,20 25:6,7 26:19 35:15 37:12
16:1 statute 4:10 7:20 54:23 55:4,7 57:14 43:24 46:8,19
28:5,19 8:9 10:25 11:4 substantive 48:3 talks 9:17 47:23,25 50:3
29:23 11:5 14:24 48:6,21,23 tell 8:18 11:6 50:15,19 51:4
35:17,19 17:16 18:15 52:11 16:7 25:25 51:11,15,21
25:25 28:24 suddenly 31:6 28:11 30:24 52:1,6,17 54:6
37:2 30:8,25 33:19 sue 16:25 33:18 44:1 54:15 55:3
58:9 trying 37:13 29:14 20:18 21:3 years 21:15
tunc 29:17 30:4 variety 24:16 33:19 53:9,12
51:18 turns 38:25 54:9 victims 42:8 58:14 1 4:14 8:9,22
54:13 view 35:24 55:1 we've 10:11 9:10,23 27:13
20:24 23:12,19 24:1 W 21:24 52:6 55:21
21:24 24:6 39:4 wait 41:9 window 40:22 1-year 39:3
42:16 waiting 40:25 won 15:22
27:23 typed 7:2 Wall 25:13 words 7:2,13 10:6
36:13 want 15:4 45:11 54:19 10-year 16:2
39:7 U wanted 17:20 work 5:3 18:3
1:5 3:4
42:25 ultimately 25:17 wanting 37:21 workload 31:9 100,000 57:7
58:16 understand 9:1 wants 10:25 works 5:4 102,000 56:22
17:6 32:2 46:6 56:2 46:18 worrying 31:6 1292(b) 4:17
56:25 59:2 warrants 6:9,24 worse 55:18 1331 52:19
16:17 30:14 1:10,17,22 11:24 19:10
13:4 untimely 12:2 35:20 38:4,5 11:5 18:14 52:7,10 53:3
16:1,2 uphold 7:23 39:24 41:13 56:11,19 53:10 54:19
28:5,20 18:13 43:25 56:19 wrong 29:10 58:22
29:23 urging 19:6 59:6 33:12 39:24 2,000 56:21
35:18 use 38:9 41:8,23 ways 22:9,10,22 45:3 54:4 2,000-ish 57:6
36:8 U.S.C 47:2 23:12 24:1 wrongly 3:12 2011 1:11
Weber 41:6 32:24 33:15 22 4:10
38:4,12 V Wednesday
19:24
47:5,9 v 1:5 3:4 14:12
X 48:18 58:19
51:20 25:13 41:6 weeks 40:23 x 1:2,9 2244(d) 23:4
52:2 58:8 went 21:15 2244(d)(1) 22:3
58:1 vacate 42:2 we'll 3:3 54:2,4 Y 26:8,9
9
38:25 9 9:11
27:25 99 48:21 56:13
33:19 56:25 57:8,11
59:2,5,7
34:13 99-plus 55:20
99.7 55:23
35:25 99.8 55:23
52:22
27:8
3:24
24:15 25:9
34:23
19:17,17
25:8
2:7
47:2
2:4 5:6,20 8:10
16:13
28:1
42:8
52:7
57:6
4:11
21:15 58:9
2:11
40:22
56:15
48:18
34:3,8,9
2:14 34:4,8,9
41:18
