IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
SANDY WILLIAMS, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 10-8505
ILLINOIS. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, December 6, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
BRIAN W. CARROLL, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; for
Petitioner.
ANITA ALVAREZ, ESQ., State's Attorney, Chicago,
Illinois; for Respondent.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
BRIAN W. CARROLL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ANITA ALVAREZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 23
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, 41
as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondent
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
BRIAN W. CARROLL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 10-8505, Williams v. Illinois.
Mr. Carroll.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BRIAN W. CARROLL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CARROLL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In this case, Sandra Lambatos testified that
Mr. Williams' DNA matched a DNA profile that, according
to assertions made by analysts from the Cellmark labs,
was the genetic description of the purported offender.
Because no one from Cellmark appeared at Mr.
Williams' trial, Lambatos' testimony conveying the
testimonial statements from Cellmark violated Mr.
Williams' rights under the Confrontation Clause. For
these reasons, the Illinois Supreme Court's decision
should be reversed.
Now, Ms. Williams' -- or Ms. Lambatos'
testimony on direct examination clearly conveyed
Cellmark's statements. She testified that the vaginal
swab and blood sample from the victim were sent from --
to Cellmark for DNA analysis. She later was asked, was
there a computer match generated from the male DNA
profile found in the semen from the vaginal swabs of the
victim and the male DNA profile that had been identified
as having originated from Mr. Williams?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, it hasn't been
the focus of the briefing, but you've just made it the
focus here. I know that you've been claiming that her
statements about what constituted the Cellmark lab
results are a statement that violates the Confrontation
Clause. But are you taking the position that her
statements and the admission of the documents, mailing
the lab sample to the laboratory, and them getting it
back, that all of those business records were improperly
admitted?
MR. CARROLL: As --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because she testified
that in her records she sees that her lab -- and she
says -- I think those records were produced; I could be
wrong -- that --
MR. CARROLL: Yes, the shipping records were
produced.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They were produced and
admitted into evidence. That the lab sample taken from
the victim, L.J., was mailed to the laboratory and that
it came back.
Are you taking the position that those
shipping documents were not business records? Are you
taking the position that those were improperly admitted?
MR. CARROLL: No, Your Honor, at this stage,
we are not challenging the admission of the shipping
records.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that would just show
that the material went to and came back from the lab.
It wouldn't show what the lab results were. It was the
results that she testified to, right?
MR. CARROLL: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And what other evidence was
there of the results besides her testimony?
MR. CARROLL: There was no other evidence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No other.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In the case of the blood
that was tested in the police lab, there the person who
was testing did testify at the trial, right? It wasn't
just Lambatos -- Lambatos, but the one who had tested
the blood?
MR. CARROLL: The -- the person who
tested or who analyzed Mr. Williams' blood did testify
live at the trial.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Abbinanti testified that
she did the blood test and it went into the State
database with reference to the other crime, not this
crime; am I correct?
MR. CARROLL: Yes, Your Honor. The -- when
he was arrested for an unrelated matter.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But she's an expert. She
testified how she did the test and what the -- and that
she put the DNA result into -- into the data bank.
MR. CARROLL: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Hasn't it long been accepted
that experts may testify to the facts that form the
basis for their opinions on the ground that when the
experts go over those facts, they are not -- those --
that information is not being introduced to prove the
truth of the matter asserted, that -- the truth of those
underlying facts; only that those are the facts that the
expert has relied on in reaching an opinion? And that
has not been considered to be hearsay.
Now, do you argue that those -- that that's
incorrect? Those -- those statements cannot be
testified to as an -- by an expert without their
constituting either hearsay or testimony within the
meaning of the Confrontation Clause?
MR. CARROLL: In this case, where the --
where the basis evidence the expert testifies to, where
it's -- the expert's opinion depends on that -- those
statements being considered true, in those instances
then, yes, we are arguing that the Confrontation Clause
does not allow --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let's say that -- let
me put it this way: Let's say the expert -- people from
the -- the expert testifies, I received the -- I looked
at the report from -- from the lab; I looked at the
report from -- I looked at the report from Cellmark, the
outside lab; I looked at the report that we did; and
there -- there is a match.
And so, the expert is -- is mentioning facts
that form the basis of the opinion but not testifying to
the truth of those. Is that a violation of the
Confrontation Clause at that point?
MR. CARROLL: If the -- the expert is not,
you know, asserting that the statements are true, then
no. However, that's not what happened in this case,
Your Honor. Ms. Lambatos --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it would be utterly
irrelevant, would it not, if the statements were not
true? I mean, it's one thing for an expert to testify
about a hypothetical, you know: Assuming this, this,
this, Mr. Expert, what would the result be? Well, on
those assumptions, it would be this.
But this was not -- nobody asked -- asked
her to assume those things at all. She testified
that -- that she had a match between what she had done
and what had been done on the -- on the DNA of this
individual by somebody else.
MR. CARROLL: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That seems to me quite
different from the -- from the ordinary hypothetical put
to an expert.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I would have
thought -- yes. You can -- sorry, go ahead.
MR. CARROLL: No, I was just going to --
JUSTICE BREYER: You were going to agree
with that. And --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I know. I mean, I'm sure
you've looked at this probably. But the most -- one of
the more interesting things I've found in these briefs
were the references to Wigmore. So, I went back and
read what Wigmore said about scientific evidence, expert
evidence, and business records. And he certainly
concedes and agrees with Justice Scalia, and those
opinions are filled with hearsay. I mean, there's no
expert who isn't relying on what his teachers told him
in college, which reflects dozens of out-of-court
statements given to dozens of people who wrote them up
in books.
So, expert opinion is always based on
hearsay, almost, and -- and so are business records.
They are filled with hearsay. But Wigmore writes a
treatise, doesn't he, where he says exceptions have been
recognized since the 17th century or earlier to cover
that kind of material?
So, my question for you is why shouldn't we
recognize a similar, related kind of exception here?
We're trying to discover the meaning of "testimonial."
The difference here is a police lab or a lab that
reports to a police lab. The individuals there probably
know that there is a fairly good chance that what they
say will be used in a criminal trial. They don't know
it for sure, but they're controlled by the canons, by
accreditation, by tests of reliability, by the fact that
they're not normally interested in the results of a
trial, as here they couldn't care less; they don't even
care if it is used in a trial.
And all the Wigmore factors for both
exceptions could support a similar exception here, which
would have the following virtue: It would have the
virtue of not requiring 10 people to come in and
testify, whom the defense is, of course, free to call;
and it would also have the virtue of removing the
temptation for prosecutors to stop relying on the more
reliable evidence, DNA, and instead encourage them to
rely on the less reliable evidence; namely, the
eyewitness testimony in a case.
Now, that -- that really is all my questions
in one.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Because I understand every
argument you're making as fitting it in with hearsay. I
agree with that. And I also agree to a degree with the
testimonial point. And I see the need for an exception,
and Wigmore provides all the reasons, and since we're
interpreting that word "testimonial," don't we have the
power, and why shouldn't we create one out of the word
"testimonial"?
MR. CARROLL: Well, Your Honor, because the
Confrontation Clause guarantees the defendant the right
to confront and cross-examine the witnesses against him,
and that's the reason why this Court should not make an
exception --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I'll go further in
your direction --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're not objecting to
hearsay, are you, counsel? You're objecting to a
violation of the Confrontation Clause --
MR. CARROLL: That's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- which is quite different
from what -- what Mr. Wigmore was writing about, which
was hearsay.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but Wigmore actually
believed that the Confrontation Clause simply
encapsulated the hearsay rule.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We've said the contrary,
though, haven't we?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm asking you the
question, and I -- I'll go further in your direction.
I'll go further, because I would say what about saying
this: that not only do we recognize the exception, but
it isn't a full exception; that if the defendant can
show some reason to believe that either the laboratory
is not properly accredited, it isn't doing things
properly; or that the individual technician has
something personal or knows about -- about the defendant
that makes it suspect, immediately the presumption that
the exception applies disappears, and the prosecutor has
to call the -- the witness.
You can say, well, we shouldn't make that
up, but I believe if you go back to the 18th century,
you'll discover that your interpretation of the
Confrontation Clause was not there. So -- so, that's
what's basing my question, and I'd like your reaction.
It's a long question, considers an exception, and I'd
like you to give me your reaction to that.
MR. CARROLL: Well, Your Honor, I think that
this Court's decisions in Crawford and Melendez-Diaz and
Bullcoming largely foreclose on making such an
exception. The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Justice Breyer dissented
from those opinions.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I did, but I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- Justice Breyer's
dissent.
JUSTICE BREYER: And I mean it because I see
extending those cases from one individual from a
laboratory being familiar with the results to requiring,
in ordinary cases, the calling of what could be up to 10
technicians -- I see that as making a sea change in
normal criminal law practices, and my motive is as I
said: I fear it will push the system in the direction
of relying on less reliable eyewitness testimony rather
than more reliable technical laboratory DNA-type
evidence. Now, you have my -- I've made the point, and
I really want to get your response.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Carroll, are we
talking about 10 witnesses? I thought we were talking
about just one witness, from Cellmark.
MR. CARROLL: Yes, on this record, Your
Honor, the -- the statements that were produced were the
statements of the authors of the report. So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's 1 person, not 10.
MR. CARROLL: I believe there are two
signatories to the report.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, 10 isn't -- 10 is not
a far-fetched hypothetical. We have an amicus brief
from the Manhattan District Attorney's Office and the
New York City Chief Medical Examiner's Office, and they
say that their very fine crime lab involves at least 12
technicians in the analysis of DNA.
They break it down that way because it
increases accuracy; it decreases the chance of any
favoritism for the prosecution. And they say that if --
it is impossible for us to bring all 12 of those
technicians into court to testify in every case in which
there is DNA evidence, and if we have to do that, we
will just not be able to use DNA evidence in court. We
will have to rely on less reliable evidence.
Is that just a -- do you think that's just a
practical consequence that we have to accept under
Crawford?
MR. CARROLL: No, Your Honor, because even
in the worst-case scenario described in the New York
County's brief, not all 12 people in that situation make
testimonial statements, and not all 12 people's
testimonial statements are presented at trial. The
Confrontation -- for the Confrontation Clause to be
satisfied, it is only those witness who the prosecution
chooses to present at trial who must testify.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's up to the prosecutor
which of those 12 he wants to bring in, whether he wants
to bring in all 12 or just 1. If he thinks the jury
will be sufficiently persuaded by bringing in just one,
he can bring in just one, right?
MR. CARROLL: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: How will bringing in --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But he has to bring in the
one and not -- and not hearsay about what the one would
say.
JUSTICE ALITO: How will bringing in one
satisfy the Confrontation Clause problem? If 12 people
perform steps in the analysis and 1 person testifies
about what 11 other people did, don't you have the same
Confrontation Clause problem?
MR. CARROLL: No, Your Honor. Again, it's
who's testifying.
JUSTICE ALITO: You don't?
MR. CARROLL: No, we don't, because the
question is, whose statement is being presented? Now,
given the five steps in the brief, the electrophoresis
step, the person who does the DNA typing and determines
what alleles are present in the sample, that person
probably has to testify because that's really what the
results are, what alleles are present.
The amplification step, the person who, you
know, copies the DNA and tags it -- I don't think that's
a testimonial statement. And in this case, no
statements from someone who did that was presented.
Next step, quantization --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why is that not a
testimonial statement?
MR. CARROLL: Well, just performing a test
is not a testimonial statement. And just stating --
JUSTICE ALITO: If the -- if the person were
in court, the person would say this is what I did.
MR. CARROLL: If the person was in court
and --
JUSTICE ALITO: And that's not testimony?
MR. CARROLL: In that case, it would be
testimony. However, that person doesn't have to testify
in order for the State to present its evidence. If the
State chooses to present that person's testimonial
statement at trial, then, yes, the Confrontation Clause
would require them to present that testimony live.
However --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Carroll, I -- I'm just
trying to figure out -- this out, and I'm -- here's my
question: Suppose you had two witnesses, one from --
one who had done the lab analysis on Mr. Williams and
one who had done the lab analysis from the victim. And
they both testify. And now an expert comes in, and the
expert says, I've looked at both reports, and there's a
match.
Now, there would be no problem at all with
that; is that right?
MR. CARROLL: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So, now we only have
one of the lab technicians, and we take away the other
lab technician. And what you are saying is, well, now
we have this expert, and she's saying she could do a
match, but the question is a match of what? That's the
question, right?
MR. CARROLL: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, why is that a
Confrontation Clause issue? Why isn't it just that the
prosecutor has failed to prove an element of his case?
MR. CARROLL: It's a Confrontation Clause
issue because the prosecution presented the statements
of the person who did the analysis on the victim's
vaginal swab.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, is that right? I
mean, I thought that the judge here said: No, I'm not
taking this for the truth of the matter asserted; I'm
only taking your statements about the lab tests as an
indication, as -- as the basis for your opinion. So,
I'm listening to your opinion.
The problem is in this whole case, there has
been no factual testimony about what the results were
from the swab on the victim. Isn't that right?
MR. CARROLL: Well --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Or am I missing something?
MR. CARROLL: You are missing something,
Your Honor. And the trial judge in this case never
stated he was not considering the evidence for its
truth. No place in the record does it -- the trial
judge state that. And, in fact, in the finding of
facts, he states that he was convinced of the -- that
there was a match because the evidence from the experts
established that victim -- that Williams' semen was
found on the victim. And he notes that, well, Cellmark
was an accredited lab. If he wasn't considering
Cellmark's statement for the truth, he wouldn't care if
they were accredited.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what did the Illinois
appellate court say about that, about whether the
information was -- whether the evidence was admitted for
the truth of the matter asserted?
MR. CARROLL: The appellate court held, as a
matter of Illinois law, these statements -- statements
that serve as the basis of an expert's opinion are
generally deemed not to be admitted for their truth.
However, in this case, there's no meaningful
distinction between considering Cellmark's statements
to -- you know, in assisting the evaluation of Lambatos'
testimony and considering it for its truth. If the
statements weren't true, then Lambatos' testimony would
not link Williams' DNA to the crime.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't -- but isn't Justice
Kagan's question there the correct question? Isn't that
a question of Illinois evidence law, not a Federal
constitutional question?
MR. CARROLL: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Was there sufficient -- was
a sufficient foundation laid for the introduction of the
-- of the expert's testimony?
MR. CARROLL: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: That was -- that was
addressed by the -- by the Illinois court?
MR. CARROLL: No, Your Honor. The question
here isn't whether the State's evidence was sufficient.
It's whether the evidence the State did present violated
Mr. Williams' rights under the Confrontation Clause.
Now, this -- I can give an example or an
analogy. Suppose a police officer were to testify: A
witness gave me this photograph and told me this is a
photograph of the offender. I compared this photograph
to a photograph of the defendant. I found that they
matched.
Now, the police officer -- he compared the
photographs. You know, we're not contesting Lambatos'
match. But the statement that this is a photo of the
offender, that's not the officer's statement. That's a
statement of the witness who gave him that photograph.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's just
because the photographing is something that people
wouldn't dispute. I mean, what if the State presents
testimony saying, I took the sample; I put it in the
sample case; I sent it to Cellmark saying give us a DNA
analysis of this sample; we got back from Cellmark the
analysis with the same name on it? And the expert
testifies, I compared that to DNA from the defendant,
and it was a match.
You would be free in cross-examining to say:
Do you know what they did at Cellmark?
And she would say: Well, they're a DNA lab;
we asked them to do a DNA analysis.
But do you know what happened?
No, I don't.
As far as you know, do they -- did they just
ignore it and not do anything?
Well, yes, I didn't -- I'm not testifying to
what happened at Cellmark. I'm just telling you we sent
the DNA there, and this is what we got back.
Why is that not perfectly fine?
MR. CARROLL: Because that person's
testimony that the results we got back were connected to
the samples we sent --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They did not -- she
does not say that. She said: We sent the sample marked
"crime scene" or whatever it was. We got back a data
sheet that said "crime scene."
Well, Expert, do you know that they didn't
mix them up?
No, I don't. All I know is what we sent and
what we got back.
MR. CARROLL: Your Honor, I still believe
that would be a Confrontation Clause violation because
the writing on the data sheet that said "crime scene," a
person at Cellmark had to write that down on the data
sheet. So, someone from Cellmark was making a
representation that that data sheet is connected to
this --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And all the witness
is -- all the witness is testifying to is what they sent
and what they got back. And you're free to
cross-examine about what went on at Cellmark, and a jury
is free to say, well, I believe the circumstantial
evidence about what happened. Or the defense counsel
can say, why don't they have anybody here from Cellmark?
And a jury can say, well, yes, that's a good point.
It just seems to me that nobody from
Cellmark is testifying, and what you're -- that's what
you're objecting to, but they don't need that testimony
to present the expert's conclusion to the jury.
MR. CARROLL: Well, Your Honor,
hypothetically, the State could -- I believe the State
could present its evidence through circumstantial
evidence, but that's not what happened in this case.
Lambatos did testify that -- she didn't simply state
that I got a profile back. She testified, I got a
profile that was the male DNA profile found in the semen
from the vaginal swab.
That's a statement from Cellmark. That's
not Lambatos' statement. And --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And she -- and she goes
further. She says: And based on that, which I believe
to be true. She didn't say that, but this is the
implication. Based on that, which I believe to be true,
this belongs to Williams. This DNA is Williams's DNA.
And if she weren't relying on the truth of
the assertion from Cellmark, it would be irrelevant for
the jury. Isn't that your point?
MR. CARROLL: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's true whenever --
whenever an expert -- an expert makes a statement.
There is a conceptual difference between their
testifying to something out of court for its truth and
that being the basis for the expert opinion. In the one
case, she's relying upon a statement in order to form
her opinion; and in the other case, she's introducing
the statement. And you're saying, in this case, that's
a distinction without a difference. Isn't that what's
going on?
MR. CARROLL: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But still there
is the conceptual difference. And as long as there is
that conceptual difference, don't we have a basis for
distinguishing this case from Melendez?
MR. CARROLL: I do not believe so, Your
Honor. Had -- had Cellmark's statements been presented
in the report itself, the report being admitted itself,
I think there would be no question that that was a --
that would be a violation of the clause under
Melendez-Diaz and Bullcoming. The fact that the same
statements were coming in for the same evidentiary
reason through the live testimony of Lambatos shouldn't
change that situation. It's the same statements coming
in for the same reason.
If there's any more -- I'll --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you're -- you're
saying that the State of Illinois case is weaker here
than in Melendez, where they had a certificate, and in
Bullcoming, where they had somebody from the lab testify
as to lab procedures. Here they have neither. And,
yet, Illinois somehow says it comes in.
MR. CARROLL: That's right, Your Honor.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Alvarez.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANITA ALVAREZ
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. ALVAREZ: May it please the Court.
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, on your theory
of this case -- and I think you say, first, it's not a
statement; and, second, that if it is, it was not
offered for the truth. Under your theory, if this lab
technician had introduced Cellmark's report, that would
have been okay, because it wasn't offered for the truth.
MS. ALVAREZ: The Cellmark report was not
introduced as evidence --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm changing the facts.
MS. ALVAREZ: -- and if she had --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under your theory, she
could have introduced the lab report?
MS. ALVAREZ: If we offered her -- the
Cellmark report into evidence for the truth of the
matter asserted, it would be a different situation.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't understand the
difference. Meaning, the fact that you didn't
physically introduce the report makes a difference?
MS. ALVAREZ: The -- Ms. Lambatos testified
consistent with the Confrontation Clause here. She
testified --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: She testified that she
reviewed lab samples --
MS. ALVAREZ: As an expert.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that matched the
defendant. So, what's the difference between that and
saying I have the report in my hand, I match that report
with the Williams report, and this is my conclusion?
MS. ALVAREZ: She did not parrot the
Cellmark report, as we had seen in Bullcoming. She did
not testify that Cellmark said this was the defendant's
profile, that Cellmark said this was a match. She did
much more.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. She said that
Cellmark said this is L.J.'s vaginal swab DNA.
MS. ALVAREZ: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, she said that.
MS. ALVAREZ: Because the vaginal swab that
was taken from the victim -- and there was a -- there
was a chain of custody here and proper foundation that
was laid -- the vaginal swab that was taken from the
victim, and this bore out through the business records
that came in on the shipping manifest that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what's the
difference between this and Justice Kennedy's question
about Bullcoming? Could the expert in Bullcoming have
said, as one of the amici here said, that all they would
have had to do in Bullcoming is to read or to give a
report that gave the blood alcohol content, the .5 or
.10 or whatever it was, and have an expert come in and
say that number shows he's drunk?
MS. ALVAREZ: Well, if the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that any different
than this situation?
MS. ALVAREZ: If the expert in Bullcoming
did more than what he simply did in Bullcoming -- and
that was just simply read the report and testify that
that's what that lab did. If he actually did his own
independent analysis based on his expertise, based on
his skill --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no. The only part
of his expertise is the report says point .10; I'm not
offering it for the truth; I'm assuming if that's true,
then he was legally drunk.
MS. ALVAREZ: If he were -- if he were to
give his independent opinion, based on his analysis and
what he had done, then we would have seen a situation
closer --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He has done nothing.
MS. ALVAREZ: -- closer to this.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All the report did was
give a number. And the supervisor comes in and says
that number violates -- is legal drunkenness.
MS. ALVAREZ: Well, if the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How is that different
from that?
MS. ALVAREZ: If that -- if that report is
being used, is being offered to prove the truth of the
matter asserted --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right, but you're
not telling me why that's not the same here, because he
-- what this expert said is the Cellmark report is from
this victim. So, it's the same set of numbers as in
Bullcoming. Now he's taking a step and saying, instead
of legal drunkenness, it matches someone else's that I
took.
MS. ALVAREZ: But, no, what happened here
was Ms. Lambatos testified based -- and gave her own
independent expert opinion based on her skills, her
knowledge, her expertise. She relied --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You -- you said
"independent," and I don't -- you said that in your
brief. I don't understand how Lambatos's testimony can
be independent of the test results supplied. I mean,
it's based on the test results. She -- it can't be
independent of them because it's entirely dependent on
them.
MS. ALVAREZ: But an expert can always
testify about the material that they relied on, whether
that material is ever admitted into evidence, and
sometimes that material could never be admitted into
evidence. But she, in fact, testified to what she
relied on, in addition to what --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but didn't she say, I
relied on stuff that I received from -- from Caremark --
whatever the name of the lab was?
MS. ALVAREZ: Cellmark.
JUSTICE SCALIA: She said: I -- I relied on
material that was a swab containing the DNA, the -- the
sperm of this particular individual. And she did not
know that.
MS. ALVAREZ: She testified that she relied
on those materials, and she can testify --
JUSTICE SCALIA: She didn't just say, I got
something back from the lab, and I relied on whatever
that said. No, she said what she had gotten back from
the lab, and she did not know, of her personal
knowledge, that it was what she said it was.
MS. ALVAREZ: She knew from the -- the
procedures and the chain of custody and the shipping
manifest that what was sent initially to Cellmark after
preliminary tests were done at the Illinois State police
crime lab showing the presence of sperm, that it was
sent to Cellmark, and it was analyzed at Cellmark and
came back from --
JUSTICE SCALIA: She didn't know if they had
incompetent people there. The last case we had
involving this kind of an issue, the reason they didn't
bring in the lab technician to testify was that he had
been fired in the interim for some reason which we
didn't know, but it was pretty clear why -- why he would
not have been a very good witness. We don't know how
good this lab was. We don't know how good the
individuals who did the test were.
And that's why it's up to the State to bring
forward testimony saying what the lab did. And the only
testimony they brought forward was the testimony of this
witness who was not there.
MS. ALVAREZ: The testimony of Ms. Lambatos
satisfies the Confrontation Clause because she is the --
the witness against the accused in this case, and the
fact that she testifies that she relies on material that
was generated by Cellmark does not make Cellmark the
witness against the accused.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If she said that, I would
agree with you. But she said more than that. She said,
I relied on material provided by Cellmark which is....
And then she described what that material was, and she
had no personal knowledge of that.
MS. ALVAREZ: She had no personal knowledge
of that, and that came through during this
cross-examination. Ms. Lambatos was subjected to a
very -- quite lengthy and a quite -- a specific
cross-examination.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, there are two types of
evidence that are -- that are involved here. One is
chain of custody evidence. Was the result that was sent
back the result that was done on the sample that was
sent to Cellmark? That's just purely chain of custody.
That has nothing whatsoever to do with the -- the
accuracy or the professionalism of what was done at
Cellmark. And she did make a statement. She did say
that the sample -- that the result that came back from
Cellmark was -- was done -- was based on a test of the
vaginal swab that was sent there.
The other has to do with what Cellmark did,
how well they did it. She didn't say anything about
that.
Now, as to the chain of custody, if that's
testimonial, isn't -- isn't it simply duplicative of the
very strong circumstantial evidence regarding the chain
of custody, the sending of it out with certain markings
and the receipt back with certain markings?
MS. ALVAREZ: Right. The -- the chain of
custody was -- was strong -- was strong in this case,
the evidence that was presented through the shipping
manifest, through the other witnesses that testified in
this case. The -- the fact that Ms. Lambatos testified
that she did not know exactly what they did at
Cellmark -- again, as an expert, she was able to talk
about what material she relied on, the Cellmark
materials. The Cellmark materials were never --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the -- the chain of --
the chain of custody are just supporting actors. The
key actor in the play, the Hamlet in the play, is the
person who did the test at Cellmark, and she or he is
not here. And if you want to say, oh, this is not --
tell the jury, now, we're not saying that this is
admitted for the truth, we're not saying that this is
Williams' DNA, the judge would say, well, then it's
irrelevant, it's excluded.
MS. ALVAREZ: But the matching --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it seems to me, in --
as in response to Justice Scalia, that not only does he
indicate that this is hard to distinguish from
Bullcoming; in Bullcoming, at least you had an expert
say how the laboratory works. Here, you don't even have
that.
MS. ALVAREZ: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You have less here with
reference to Cellmark than you did in Bullcoming.
MS. ALVAREZ: Ms. Lambatos did testify both
on direct examination and cross-examination that
Cellmark was an accredited lab. The Illinois State
Police crime lab routinely uses -- outsources --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in Bullcoming, we
said that was not sufficient. And in that case, the
person was from that lab.
MS. ALVAREZ: But -- but Ms. Lambatos -- we
never introduced any Cellmark reports in this case.
There were no testimonial statements conveyed through
her testimony. There were no out-of-court statements
used to prove the truth of the matter asserted.
What was presented was the expert opinion of
Ms. Lambatos, who was a duly qualified expert in -- in
forensic biology, in DNA. And not only did she have the
ability to look at the Cellmark material; she
interpreted the material that -- that came from
Cellmark. And what came from Cellmark, the
electropherogram, what I would submit to you is not
testimonial -- it's a machine-generated chart that, to
the naked eye, to a trier of fact means absolutely
nothing unless an expert actually interprets that. And
Ms. Lambatos testified to how she interpreted that. She
talks about the alleles and the peaks --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't know how that's
any different from Bullcoming and Melendez-Diaz.
MS. ALVAREZ: I -- well, Melendez-Diaz, what
we had in Melendez-Diaz was, in fact, a certificate, an
affidavit. It was -- it was -- it was created --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In other words, you had
something more than you have here; and, therefore, it
goes out and this comes in? That doesn't make sense.
MS. ALVAREZ: No, I think in Melendez-Diaz,
it's clear because that was -- that report was drafted,
created, for the primary purpose of being used as
substitute of live testimony. I submit to you that the
Cellmark reports were not. The electropherogram, again,
which would need expert interpretation; the allele
chart, again, I would submit is not testimonial, that
those reports were not created in lieu of live
testimony.
And Ms. Lambatos looked at that. She
interpreted it. In fact, she even said that there was
something on the electropherogram that she didn't agree
with Cellmark on, and it was a certain one peak that was
higher that she felt was, just in her expert opinion,
background noise. So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If the report had been
introduced, the Cellmark report, it would be
testimonial; is that -- is that right?
MS. ALVAREZ: Well, I -- I believe if -- if
the State had tried to introduce that Cellmark report --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. Right.
MS. ALVAREZ: -- it would have been offered
for the truth of the matter asserted. And we -- and it
would be -- it would be a -- it would implicate the
Confrontation Clause.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, how does it
become --
MS. ALVAREZ: -- but that's not what
happened here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does it become
non-testimonial when it's relayed by the recipient of
the report? I mean, if -- if the -- you're not
introducing it for the truth, then it's not relevant.
MS. ALVAREZ: Right. I think the key is the
use. How are these statements used? How are these
reports used? And in this particular case, they were
not used to prove the truth of the matter asserted.
They were used for the limited purpose of explaining the
expert's opinion and for the expert to testify to what
she relied on in getting to her opinion.
JUSTICE KAGAN: How do we know that, Ms.
Alvarez? Is there a statement from the finder of fact,
who's the trial judge here, that he's understanding her
testimony to be not for the truth of the matter
asserted? What's the best evidence that that's what the
court was thinking?
MS. ALVAREZ: There is. And in the joint
appendix on page 172, the language from the trier of
fact, he says just that, that he's considering these for
the limited purpose. In fact, the Illinois appellate
court also affirmed, stating that this evidence came in
for a limited purpose, as well as the Illinois --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's the limited purpose
of -- of explaining the basis for her opinion. But her
opinion is that this is matched to Lambatos.
MS. ALVAREZ: I'm sorry, Your Honor. I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Her opinion is that this
is a match to Lambatos. But if -- if the match material
isn't admitted for the truth of the matter asserted or
isn't considered for the matter asserted, then that
testimony is irrelevant and meaningless.
MS. ALVAREZ: Well, not irrelevant, but I
believe it goes to the weight of her testimony, and that
is for the trier of fact to determine. And here, it was
a bench trial. It was a judge. But if in fact the
State presents the evidence in the way that was -- we
presented it here, we're always taking the chance that
it would weaken the -- the case. And it has to be
considered for the weight to be given to Ms. Lambatos'
testimony.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Suppose the State had not
presented evidence of the shipments, so that you didn't
even have that. Would -- at that point, should the
judge have just thrown out the case?
MS. ALVAREZ: No, Your Honor. I would say
no. I believe there was the testimony of the victim in
this case, who identifies this defendant as the
perpetrator in -- in this rape. In addition, the judge
made a finding when -- in his ruling. The trier of fact
said that he believed her 100 percent, and he found her
extremely credible.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But I guess what I'm trying
to suggest is that if there's no evidence in the case
that the -- that the match is to the victim, where is
your case?
MS. ALVAREZ: Well, then we probably would
have problems with the Illinois evidentiary rules and --
and the law in Illinois.
We obviously presented in this case a
sufficient chain, a sufficient foundation, to show
where -- when that -- we -- we presented the testimony,
not only of the victim but the doctor who was present
when the swab was taken, of the officers who brought the
sealed swab to the Illinois State Police crime lab, how
that sealed swab was first looked at, preliminary tests
by Mr. Hapack in -- in ISP, in order to -- before they
sent it to Cellmark, and then Cellmark extracts a DNA
profile of a woman -- a female and a man.
Cellmark never makes the match here.
Cellmark never says this is Mr. Williams' DNA. That is
done by Ms. Lambatos. Through her expert and her
expertise, she makes the match.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but Cellmark says this
is the male DNA that was found in the sample that was
sent. Cellmark made that decision, right? And her
testimony was based upon the fact -- was based upon
comparing that male DNA with -- with her own blood
sample. It's meaningless unless that male DNA was
indeed the defendant's.
MS. ALVAREZ: And she can testify to what
she relied on. Again -- and it goes to her weight if
the trier of fact chooses not to believe it. The -- but
the evidence here was clear --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You know, I would believe
that if the prosecution put the question to -- to her
this way: Assume that you got a report which said that
this was the defendant's DNA. And if you were to match
that with this -- the work you've done on the blood
sample, would you find that -- that, you know, that the
sample was taken from the defendant? And she would say
yes. And the jury would say: So what?
I mean, you've just -- you've just made a
hypothesis. "If you had been told." That -- that would
be worth nothing.
Her testimony was, I received information
that this was indeed the DNA taken from -- the male DNA
taken from the -- from the swab that was sent. Without
that, the testimony was worthless. It's just, you know,
a hypothesis. She responds to a hypothesis. That was
not the way this was played out in the trial, was it?
MS. ALVAREZ: The -- again, our position is
that her testimony was consistent with the Confrontation
Clause. The Confrontation Clause is concerned about
what statements are admitted, what evidence is admitted.
No Cellmark reports were admitted here. She did not
parrot the testimony -- I mean, the report of Cellmark.
She testified to what she did, how she
arrived at her own independent opinion on this, which --
again, we did not offer any out-of-court statements to
prove the truth of the matter asserted. We offered Ms.
Lambatos, who was subjected to a lengthy
cross-examination, and that satisfies the Confrontation
Clause. And the inability to test the reliability of
what happened at Cellmark does not trigger the
Confrontation Clause.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought you earlier
recognized that her -- her opinion could not be
independent of the test results. It depended entirely
on the test results. So, I -- now you've -- you've
inserted "independent" again, and I thought you had --
you had given up on that.
MS. ALVAREZ: Well, I think, you know, what
we saw in Bullcoming was not an independent opinion of
an expert. With -- he offered no independent analysis.
He simply read off a report that was prepared by another
lab, and that -- in Bullcoming, that was offered to
prove the truth of the matter asserted.
We did not offer Cellmark reports here to
prove the truth of the matter asserted. We offered the
expert opinion of Ms. Lambatos, and her credibility was
attacked through a very vigorous cross-examination here,
and that satisfies the Confrontation Clause.
Testimonial statements, again, are -- are
statements that are -- are made in lieu of live
testimony, and the key is the live testimony here, which
we presented live testimony. The reports from Cellmark
in our -- our conclusion is that they are not
testimonial in nature.
And what Petitioner is asking you here -- to
do here today is to expand Crawford, to expand the
Confrontation Clause, to expand the definition of
hearsay and the definition of "testimonial."
And -- and our position simply is to ask you
to maintain the rule of Crawford, which is quite clear,
that a witness becomes -- an out-of-court declarant
becomes a witness against an accused within the concept
of the Confrontation Clause when their extrajudicial
statements are offered to prove the truth of the matter
asserted. And so, the witness here --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does Illinois -- does
Illinois have notice and demand?
MS. ALVAREZ: No.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It does not?
MS. ALVAREZ: No. No. And so, our -- our
position, Your Honors, is to maintain the rule of
Crawford. There is no such thing as inferential
hearsay, as the Petitioner wants you to believe. A
statement is a statement. Hearsay is hearsay. There is
no such thing as inferential hearsay. What was
presented here in this case was consistent with the
Confrontation Clause; it was satisfied. And for -- and
for that, we respect your opinion here today, but we ask
that you maintain the ruling of Crawford.
JUSTICE SCALIA: She was asked, just -- just
to be clear what she was testifying to: "Did you
compare the semen that had been identified by Brian
Hapack from the vaginal swabs of Latonia Jackson to the
male DNA profile that had been identified by Karen Kooi
from the blood of Sandy Williams?"
"Yes, I did."
She is accepting and -- and affirming this
statement that what she was comparing was the semen that
had been identified from the vaginal swabs.
MS. ALVAREZ: She -- she is accepting and
she is relying on the material that was generated by
Cellmark, but, again, the State did not admit into
evidence or -- or try to admit into evidence the
Cellmark report or any statements from Cellmark.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Dreeben.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING RESPONDENT
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Sandra Lambatos's testimony really has to be
analyzed as having two components to it. The first
component is the match, the match between the data
reflecting the allele charts from Cellmark and the data
that was produced in analyzing Petitioner's blood. As
to that component of her testimony, she's a live
witness. She's subject to cross-examination. I don't
think that anyone asserts there's a Confrontation Clause
issue.
But as several members of the Court have
pointed out, that testimony is entirely irrelevant and
nonprobative unless it can be linked to the semen that
was taken from the victim and that was subsequently
analyzed to generate a DNA profile. As to that issue,
Illinois State law provides that her testimony cannot
prove for the truth of the matter asserted what Cellmark
did. She cannot repeat on the witness stand, when she
gives the basis for her testimony, things that Cellmark
said and have them be taken for the truth --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But, Mr. Dreeben, she
did repeat what Cellmark said. I asked your -- the
State's attorney whether, if she had read the data
report from the laboratory analysis, would that have
been a violation of the Confrontation Clause? Not
clear. She says, only if you admitted it.
But in fact that's what she did. If you
read her testimony -- I give you an example at page
79 -- she tells on cross-examination exactly what the
steps were in the Cellmark report, what numbers they
gave, and she tells and explains -- she -- the State's
attorney took pride in this -- she said, I disagree with
that number that they came up with; I think the number
should be....
So, she's really reading the report.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, first of all, Justice
Sotomayor, that did come in on cross-examination, and I
don't think that Petitioner is contending that evidence
that he himself elicits on cross-examination --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So, then
let's --
MR. DREEBEN: -- would violate the
Confrontation Clause.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So, let's --
so, let's get to --
MR. DREEBEN: Can I focus on --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could the State have
done this?
MR. DREEBEN: Can I focus on your question?
I think, because she clearly did link the DNA that she
compared to the blood DNA to the semen that was sent to
Cellmark, and I think that several members of the Court
have raised the question, is she implicitly thereby
repeating what Cellmark said and then making Cellmark
the out-of-court witness?
My answer to that is twofold. First of all,
as a matter of Illinois State law, she could not do
that. She is not permitted to give the basis for her
opinion in that respect and have it taken for the truth.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If that's so, why isn't
there insufficient evidence in this case?
MR. DREEBEN: And this brings me to my
second reason for saying that this is not a
Confrontation Clause problem.
It's in essence what the Chief Justice
described and what Justice Alito referred to as the
circumstantial way in which the factfinder can infer
that Cellmark tested the DNA in the semen that was sent
to it. There's a shipping manifest that shows that the
semen goes out to the lab; there's a shipping manifest
that shows that it comes back. And Cellmark tenders
a --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: None of -- none of which
has anything to do with the accuracy of the test.
MR. DREEBEN: Correct. And that is I think
the crucial point here. The State may have a very weak
case if it doesn't produce a witness from the lab who
can attest to the fact that the lab did what it was
supposed to do and conducted a properly authorized DNA
examination. It has to get by with the very skimpy
circumstantial showing of we sent the material out --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, it -- it doesn't
though. It could have -- could it have a witness saying
Cellmark is the nation's foremost DNA testing
laboratory; they hire only people who have Ph.D.'s in
DNA testing? I mean, is that all right?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes. Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The State can make
its case a lot stronger --
MR. DREEBEN: And it did that here by saying
that Cellmark is an accredited laboratory and Sandra
Lambatos participated in designing proficiency
examination. But she had to admit on cross-examination
that she had no idea what Cellmark actually did in this
case. She could draw inferences. And the inferences
that she drew are what enable her to say my opinion is
there is a match between the DNA in the semen and the
DNA in the blood.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: As you understand our
precedents, would this have been a stronger or a weaker
case if a representative, an employee, of Cellmark had
come and said, although I didn't do this sample, I want
to tell you how our procedures work and why we're a
respectable lab, et cetera, et cetera?
MR. DREEBEN: It would have been relatively
stronger had a witness been able to actually come from
Cellmark and validate that Cellmark is an accredited
laboratory and conducts procedures in a certain way.
But the crucial point here --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Dreeben, if no
expert from either lab came in, if an expert had the
Cellmark information and the Illinois State Police
information, not offered for the truth of the matter,
and came in and said, I matched this and I matched that,
and it's the defendant -- could that have been done?
MR. DREEBEN: Only if as a matter of State
law there was a sufficient foundation for the factfinder
to conclude that the DNA actually came from the blood
and the DNA came from the semen.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Dreeben, that seems to
me -- I mean, we have a Confrontation Clause which
requires that the witnesses against the defendant appear
and testify personally. And -- and the crucial evidence
here is the testing of the semen found on the swab.
That is -- that's the crux of this evidence. And you're
telling me that this Confrontation Clause allows you to
simply say, well, we're not going to bring in the person
who did the test; we're simply going to say this is a
reliable lab.
I don't know how that complies with the
Confrontation Clause.
MR. DREEBEN: The Confrontation Clause,
Justice Scalia, does not obligate the State to present a
strong case. It does not prevent the State from
presenting a relatively weaker case, so long as it does
not rely on testimonial statements to prove the truth of
the matter asserted.
This Court held, in Bruton v. United States,
that there is a very narrow exception to the almost
invariable presumption that juries will follow the
instructions that they're given. If they are told not
to take evidence for the truth of the matter asserted,
they are presumed to follow that instruction. Here
Illinois State law supplies that filter.
Everything that the judge heard, he filtered
through Illinois State law that says the basis for the
expert's opinion doesn't prove its truth. So, the State
gave up the right to say you can believe that this DNA
report is reliable and trustworthy because Cellmark says
so. The State doesn't get that benefit, and as a result
of not getting that benefit, it is not obligated to
treat Cellmark as if it's a witness. Cellmark --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I suppose the problem is,
Mr. Dreeben, that if the -- if the State put up Ms.
Lambatos and Ms. Lambatos had to say I did a match -- I
was given two reports; there was a match, but I have no
idea where this other report came from; you know, it
might have been from the victim, but it might not have
been; I don't have a clue -- the State would never have
put that prosecution on, because the State would have
understood that there was no case there.
The State is relying on the fact that people
will take what Ms. Lambatos says about what she knows
about where the report came from as a fact, as the truth
of the matter, that in fact this report did come from
the victim. And so, the jury can be given instructions
saying you can't consider this except for the truth of
the matter asserted.
But it's a bit of a cheat, no?
MR. DREEBEN: No. I think, Justice Kagan,
when you consider the things that this Court has held
juries can properly apply limiting instructions to, they
can hear the fact that evidence was seized from the
defendant, marijuana was found at his house. The
defendant gets up on the stand and says, no, it wasn't.
The State can introduce that marijuana to impeach his
testimony. And the jury is instructed you may not use
that as proof that he possessed marijuana, only to
impeach his testimony.
The same is true with unwarned statements in
violation of Miranda.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What was the instruction
here? That --
MR. DREEBEN: There's no instruction here,
Justice Scalia, because this is a bench trial. And in a
bench trial, the judge is presumed to follow the law,
and as my colleague read to the Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, we simply have a
presumption even though -- even though the court's
statement seems to indicate that he does take it for the
truth of the matter.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, the Illinois --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you're saying, well, he
couldn't have because that would be against the law.
MR. DREEBEN: The Illinois Supreme Court
found as a matter of State law that he did comply with
State evidentiary rules and he did not take the Cellmark
report for the truth of the matter asserted. And there
is in this case an alternative route of proof which is
circumstantial. And I take the Chief Justice's
amendment of my description of the facts to include that
Cellmark is an accredited laboratory. That does add to
the probative value. But it's a much weaker chain of
support to conclude that the DNA male profile came from
the semen than if they had produced Cellmark. But not
having produced Cellmark, they do not need to afford
confrontation on Cellmark.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Carroll, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BRIAN W. CARROLL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CARROLL: Thank you, Your Honor.
First, the State cited page 7 -- or 172 in
the joint appendix as a reference to the trial judge
stating that he was not considering Cellmark's statement
for its truth. That's not a cite to the transcript of
the trial. That's a cite to the Illinois Supreme
Court's opinion.
Nowhere in the actual trial transcripts did
the judge ever state, I'm not considering this evidence
for its truth. In fact, in the statement of facts on
page JJJ 151 of the record, he states that it's the --
it's the testimony of the expert that makes this link.
Cellmark's an accredited lab.
And it's inconceivable that, in the face of
the evidence of Cellmark's work that the prosecution
presented through Lambatos' testimony and during defense
counsel's objections to that testimony, that the judge
would never state at any point, hey, I'm not considering
this for its truth.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you saying that we
owe no deference to the Illinois Supreme Court's
judgment on this evidentiary issue? And if so, no
deference, tell me what proposition of law supports that
or are you saying deference is due, but we shouldn't
give it. Which of the two positions are you taking?
MR. CARROLL: I think deference is due, but
you shouldn't take it given the record in this case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is deference due? I
mean, it's either the fact or it's not the fact. If a
State supreme court opinion says something that
contradicts the -- you know, the record, we owe it
deference? I don't know any such rule.
MR. CARROLL: Well, if the Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We owe deference to its
interpretation of Illinois law, I suppose.
MR. CARROLL: I guess I -- if this Court
would like not to give the Illinois Supreme Court
deference, I'd be more than happy --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think we should give it
deference where deference is due and not give it
deference where deference is not due. And on statement
of facts that either are erroneous or not, I don't -- I
don't know why deference is applicable.
MR. CARROLL: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You do think our law
is established, though, that a jury will follow an
instruction in this situation to -- not to take the
testimony for truth of the evidence, for truth of the
matter.
MR. CARROLL: Not in this situation, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do we have any --
any case saying that instruction is inadequate in a case
like this?
MR. CARROLL: Not in this particular fact
pattern. But this case is different than a Bruton type
situation where there are -- there's a proper way to
consider the evidence and an improper, and there's a
fear that the jury is going to -- or the trier of fact
is going to consider the improper. Here Illinois law
did allow the trier of fact --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you aware that in
Illinois they have an instruction -- assuming it was a
jury case, this is a bench case, but if it were a jury
case: Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, you are not to
presume or assume that the DNA tested by Cellmark came
from this sample.
MR. CARROLL: Yes, Your Honor. There is
such an instruction in Illinois law; however --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And then they routinely
give that to juries?
MR. CARROLL: I believe they do, Your Honor.
However, in this case -- or Illinois law does not
prohibit the trier of fact from considering Cellmark's
statements. The trier of fact is allowed and is
expected to consider it in assisting the trier of fact
in evaluating Lambatos' opinion.
And in this situation, where Lambatos -- the
only way that the Cellmark statements support Lambatos'
opinion is if they are true, there is no meaningful
difference between considering the statements in
assessing Lambatos' opinion and considering them for the
truth.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I'm going
back to Justice Kennedy's question. There is an
Illinois requirement that the trial judges give the
instruction he described?
MR. CARROLL: I believe there is a
recommended jury instruction for -- that the basis
evidence is not to be considered for its truth, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Under Rule 703 of the
Illinois Rules of Evidence, are the facts that an --
that an expert takes into account in reaching his or her
opinion introduced for the truth of the matter asserted?
MR. CARROLL: Not under the language of the
rule, Your Honor, no.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
13:10 14:16,20 ANITA 1:17 2:6 26:16 52:24 believed 11:6
54:12 18:4,18,23 answer 44:6 7:24 belongs 22:9
33:3 appeared 3:14 Attorney's best 35:6
allows 47:1 appendix 35:9 authors 13:6 blood 3:23 5:15
18:1,3 49:24 applicable 52:4 a.m 1:13 3:2 26:2 37:18
45:16 Alvarez 1:17 2:6 applies 11:21 38:4 41:10
24:2 apply 48:22 B 42:6 44:1
50:2,24
44:24 25:2,7,14,16 arguing 7:2 8:18 11:24 books 9:1
40:12 27:2,5,15 28:1 2:2,5,8,12 3:3 20:20,25 21:10 break 13:16
35:3,8,17,23 7:25 20:6 41:5 34:1 Breyer's 12:13
40:18,20 41:15 40:5 26:12,12,19 50:10
50:1 17:8 18:7 30:17 37:17,17 15:5 27:21
5:2 18:6 amicus 1:21 32:16 34:9,23 basis 6:11,24 briefs 8:17
23:6 2:11 13:11 35:6,20,21 7:12 17:10 bring 13:19
31:17 41:24 39:1,18,20 18:10 22:18 14:11,12,14,17
38:20,20 amplification 40:15 42:17 23:2 35:15 29:7,13 47:2
43:1 15:10 47:12,17 48:18 42:19 44:8 bringing 14:13
29:24 26:12,19 39:15 assessing 53:18 13:8 21:1,12 52:17
42:24 assisting 18:14 21:21 22:6,8 Bullcoming 12:7
25:8 32:13 34:22 46:8 38:19,19 39:4 confront 10:18
26:1 36:4,10,13,19 certainly 8:20 39:6,23 40:7 confrontation
27:12 36:21,25 41:1 certificate 23:17 40:13 41:2 3:17 4:8 6:22
32:4 44:11 45:2,14 33:7 42:9,25 43:18 7:2,14 10:17
33:5 45:20 46:1 cetera 46:4,4 44:14 46:21 10:25 11:6
47:9,10 48:11 chain 25:18 47:1,6,7 12:1 14:7,7,21
8:20 9:3 52:14,14,17,25 30:22,24 31:2 37:24 40:10 17:2 19:7 21:2
52:25 53:1,9 31:11,12 37:1 41:6 43:1 24:23 29:18
50:3 clearly 3:21 34:11 38:18,19
21:11,14,17 chart 32:24 43:12 46:2,6 21:6
3:5,6,8 25:10,13 27:10 cheat 48:19 23:20 26:25 consider 48:17
5:3,10 28:10,24 29:2 Chicago 1:15,17 33:11 44:21 48:21 52:19,21
6:3,8 29:2,21,21,25 Chief 3:3,8 coming 23:10,12 53:12
7:15 8:5 30:12,15,17,19 13:13 19:19 compare 41:7 considered 6:17
10:16 31:8,9,10,14 20:18 21:8 compared 19:11 7:1 35:21 36:5
12:5 13:1 32:4,7,13,20 23:23 24:3 19:14 20:1 54:1
14:2,15 32:22,22 33:16 41:20,25 44:15 44:1 considering
15:3,17 33:24 34:3,6 45:7,13 49:25 comparing 17:19 18:1,13
16:6 37:8,8,10,11 50:8 52:6,13 37:18 41:13 18:15 35:10
17:2 37:14,16 38:21 54:9 complies 47:5 50:15,20 51:4
18:8 38:22 39:5,19 chooses 14:9 comply 49:21 53:10,17,18
19:1,4 40:2 41:17,19 16:2 37:23 component 42:4 considers 12:3
21:1,20 41:19 42:5,17 circumstantial 42:7 consistent 24:23
23:4 42:19,22 43:5 21:12,22 30:24 components 38:18 41:1
50:9,10 44:2,4,4,18,21 44:17 45:6 42:3 constituted 4:7
51:12,19 45:9,16,19 49:25 computer 3:25 constituting
52:5,11 46:1,7,7,12 cite 50:16,17 concedes 8:21 6:21
53:4,8 47:24 48:2,2 cited 50:13 concept 40:12 constitutional
54:7 49:22 50:2,5,6 City 13:13 conceptual 18:21
7:17 10:4 Cellmark's 3:22 clause 3:17 4:9 concerned 38:19 28:12
15:12,24 18:2,13 23:5 6:22 7:2,14 conclude 46:18 contending
24:8 50:15,24 10:17,25 11:6 50:4 43:13
19:23 51:1 53:10 12:1 14:7,21 conclusion content 26:2
22:19,20 century 9:6 14:24 16:3,25 21:19 25:6 contesting 19:15
23:3,16 11:24 17:2 19:7 21:2 40:3 contradicts
29:5,19 certain 30:25 23:8 24:23 conducted 45:4 51:17
32:10 31:1 33:24 29:18 34:11 conducts 46:8 contrary 11:8
43:4,12,14 Department 20:13 22:1,9,9 electrophoresis
8:5 14:15 20:3 depends 6:25 38:12 41:9 employee 46:1
18:19 crucial 45:1 Deputy 1:19 42:15 43:25 enable 45:21
44:25 46:9,23 described 14:3 44:1,18 45:4,9 encapsulated
21:13 curiae 1:21 2:11 53:23 46:18,19 47:23 encourage 10:2
24:4 41:24 description 3:13 50:4 53:2 entirely 27:24
50:8 custody 25:18 50:1 DNA-type 12:23 39:9 42:12
28:23 30:10,12 designing 45:17 doctor 37:3 erroneous 52:3
13:20,22 D 3:1 23:2 24:20,21 drafted 33:13 17:24 52:7
18:5 data 6:7 20:20 25:4,23 53:17 draw 45:20 et 46:4,4
19:3 21:3,4,6 42:4,5 different 8:7 Dreeben 1:19 evaluating
24:2,3 42:23 11:2 24:18 2:9 41:21,22 53:13
42:1 database 6:1 26:6 27:3 33:5 41:25 42:21 evaluation
44:2 December 1:9 52:17 43:11,17,21,24 18:14
48:21 decision 3:18 direct 3:21 32:6 44:12,25 45:12 evidence 4:22
51:16 37:16 direction 10:22 45:15 46:5,10 5:11,13 6:24
decisions 12:6 11:12 12:21 46:16,20 47:7 8:19,20 10:2,3
49:14 decreases 13:17 disappears 49:17,20 13:23 16:1
51:7 deemed 18:11 11:21 drew 45:21 17:19,23 18:6
40:6,10 20:1 25:4 dispute 19:21 27:1,13 24:11,17 28:3
41:4 36:13 38:6 dissent 12:14 due 51:10,12,14 28:5 30:9,10
defendant's 18:13 22:22 duplicative 36:19 37:24
18:17 21:13 51:2 23:3 E 48:23 50:20
21:3 deference 51:7,9 District 13:12 E 2:1 3:1,1 51:1 52:9,19
32:8 37:5 51:10,12,14,18 DNA 3:11,11,24 earlier 9:6 39:7 54:1,4
52:1,2,2,4 8:3 10:2 13:15 11:16 46:11 23:10 36:23
extremely 36:17 36:15 27:19 34:2,7 10:24 11:4,7
32:6 45:5 eyewitness 10:4 fired 29:8 40:16,19 40:24,24,25
12:22 first 24:5 37:6 give 12:4 19:8 held 18:8 47:13
F 44:6 50:13 26:25 43:3 hey 51:4
fact 9:16 17:21 five 15:5 51:25 52:1 hire 45:10
11:14 28:5 29:20 43:21,24 given 8:25 15:5 6:3,8 7:18
12:3 31:6 32:25 follow 47:15,18 36:5 39:12 10:16 12:5
47:14 33:7,22 35:3 49:11 52:7 47:16 48:6,16 13:5 14:2,15
36:1,15 37:17 foreclose 12:7 gives 42:19 17:18 18:22
7:5,6,11 52:20,22 53:10 forward 29:14 35:24 37:22 52:5,12 53:4,8
8:8 53:11,12 29:15 44:20 54:2,8
9:2 factfinder 44:17 found 4:1 8:17 going 8:11,12 Honors 40:21
46:17 17:25 19:12 22:23 47:2,3 house 48:24
20:22 factors 9:20 22:1 36:16 52:20,21 53:20 hypothesis 38:9
facts 6:10,12,15 37:15 46:24 good 9:13 21:15 38:15,15
26:3,8 6:15 7:11 48:24 49:21 29:10,11,11 hypothetical
28:1 17:22 24:12 foundation gotten 28:19 7:22 8:7 13:11
32:17 50:1,21 52:3 18:24 25:18 ground 6:11 hypothetically
33:1,17 54:4 37:1 46:17 guarantees 21:21
34:25 factual 17:13 free 9:24 20:3 10:17
39:15,21 failed 17:1 21:10,12 guess 36:18 I
50:23 fairly 9:13 full 11:15 51:22 idea 45:19 48:7
familiar 12:17 further 10:21 identified 4:2
27:18 far-fetched Hamlet 31:13 identifies 36:13
13:11 G hand 25:5 ignore 20:10
fear 12:21 52:20 General 1:19 41:8 1:18 3:4,18
21:19 felt 33:25 generate 42:15 20:7,12 21:13 23:16,20 28:25
47:22 female 37:9 generated 3:25 21:23 27:15 32:7 35:11,13
35:15 filled 8:22 9:4 genetic 3:13 happy 51:24 40:16,17 42:16
53:5 instances 7:1 judge 17:7,18,21 40:16,19 41:5 knowledge
54:4 instructed 49:2 31:18 35:4 41:20,25 42:21 27:18 28:21
47:18 49:7,9 47:20 49:11 44:10,15,16,23 knows 11:19
44:11 jury 14:12 21:11 51:20,25 52:6 5:7,8,16 7:7,9
interesting 8:17 31:16 38:7 53:20,21 54:3 13:14 16:9,10
interpretation 52:7,20,25,25 Justice's 49:25 18:1 20:5
interpreted 3:8 4:4,15,21 Kagan 16:6,17 26:11 28:9,18
10:13 7:4,19 8:6,9,12 48:3,20 32:8,11 37:5
introduce 24:21 10:21,23 11:2 Karen 41:9 45:2,3 46:4,11
27:17 32:13 34:3 13:10 14:10,16 32:3,9 33:4,9 12:17,23 31:25
54:6 14:17,20 15:2 35:14,18 44:10 42:24 45:10,16
39:9,11 introducing 15:15,19,23 44:23 45:24 46:8 50:2
22:20 34:19 16:6,17,24 52:23 53:6 labs 3:12
18:24 18:18,18,23 25:23 53:21 laid 18:24 25:19
12:16 involves 13:14 22:25 23:15,23 kind 9:7,9 29:6 5:18 7:18
involving 29:6 24:3,4,12,14 knew 28:22 18:14,16 19:15
22:11 31:19 25:12,15,22,23 7:22 8:15 9:13 23:11 24:22
issue 16:25 17:3 28:11,17 29:4 20:4,7,9,22,24 32:12,18 33:2
51:8 31:11,21,22 29:9,10,11 36:5 37:12
18:6 J 34:2,7,12,16 37:25 38:5,14 48:5,5,13 51:2
46:12,13 Jackson 41:8 35:2,14,18 39:13 47:5 53:13,14,15,18
making 10:9 42:17 44:7 never 17:18 28:4 27:17 32:17
11:10 22:1 37:15,18 52:10 54:6,12 New 13:13 14:3 39:21 41:3
37:19 38:12 mean 7:21 8:15 noise 34:1 44:9 45:21
36:24 man 37:9 17:7 19:21 42:13 51:16 53:13,16
44:7 Manhattan 27:22 34:18 non-testimonial 53:18 54:6
47:19,21 13:12 38:8,22 45:11 34:17 opinions 6:11
manifest 25:21 46:21 51:15 normal 12:20 8:22 12:10
52:6 28:24 31:5 meaning 6:22 normally 9:17 oral 1:11 2:2,5,8
53:5,9 44:19,20 9:10 24:20 notes 17:25 3:6 23:25
markings 30:25 35:22 37:19 numbers 27:11 ordinary 8:7
match 3:25 7:10 Medical 13:13 originated 4:3
19:16 20:2 Melendez-Diaz objecting 10:23 out-of-court
37:10,13 38:3 members 42:11 obligate 47:8 44:5
33:15,19 19:13 25:3 2:9 41:22 19:11,17 P 3:1
40:1,2 35:16 46:14,14 minutes 50:9 offer 38:25 page 2:2 35:9
matches 27:13 Miranda 49:6 39:19 43:3 50:13,22
47:10 material 5:7 9:7 17:17 24:16 27:6 38:22
16:12 31:9 32:20,21 46:13 45:17
37:6 35:19 41:16 N offering 26:16 particular 28:13
name 19:25 28:9 officers 37:4 peak 33:24
18:9 24:18 nature 40:4 okay 16:17 24:9 9:23 14:4,21
28:25 32:8 48:3 35:14 received 7:6
5:2 38:17 40:9 23:19 28:23 19:22 38:1 recognize 9:9
14:22 positions 51:11 produce 45:2 p.m 54:11 recognized 9:6
possessed 49:3 produced 4:17 39:8
power 10:14 4:20,21 13:5 Q recommended
21:4 practical 13:25 42:6 50:5,6 qualified 32:18 53:25
32:11 practices 12:20 professionalism quantization record 13:4
precedents 30:14 15:14 17:20 50:22
30:2,3 preliminary 45:17 11:12 12:2,3 records 4:12,16
prepared 39:16 4:2 21:25 22:1 16:22 18:19,19 8:20 9:3 25:20
present 14:9 37:9 41:9 23:7 25:23 32:4 50:14
19:6 21:19,22 prohibit 53:10 44:3 53:21 referred 44:16
2:4,14 3:7 presented 14:6 proper 25:18 quite 8:6 11:2 reflects 8:24
43:13 15:4,13 17:3 52:18 30:6,6 40:10 regarding 30:24
23:5 31:4 properly 11:17 related 9:9
presenting prosecution raised 44:3 relevant 34:19
47:10 13:18 14:8 rape 36:14 reliability 9:16
36:2 48:10 51:1 54:5 reliable 10:2,3
presumed 47:18 11:21 14:10 read 8:19 26:1 47:4,24
pride 43:7 39:20 40:14 42:2 43:10 rely 10:3 13:23
21:15 probably 8:16 provided 29:25 11:16 23:11,13 relying 8:23
26:15 9:12 15:8 provides 10:12 29:6,8 44:13 10:1 12:22
41:16 5:12 9:17 Sandy 1:3 41:10 22:1 41:7,13 Sotomayor 4:4
12:17 15:9 satisfied 14:8 42:13 44:1,18 4:15,21 24:4
23:6,6 right 5:9,17 saying 11:13 20:12,17,19,24 46:10 51:6
10:17 11:1 16:19,20 19:22 21:9 28:24 53:20
25:5,5,6 14:14 16:15,22 19:23 22:21 29:2 30:10,12 specific 30:6
26:2,10 17:6,14 22:25 23:16 25:5 30:18 37:8,16 sperm 28:13
27:5 23:21 25:14 27:12 29:14 38:13 44:1,18 29:1
33:13 27:8 31:2 34:4 31:16,17 44:13 45:6 stage 5:3
34:7,20 37:16 45:8,15 48:17 serve 18:10 stand 42:18
39:16 43:15,19 45:11 49:18 51:6,10 set 27:11 48:25
42:24 47:23 52:14 sheet 20:21 21:3 state 5:25 16:1,2
47:24 rights 3:17 19:7 says 4:17 9:5 21:5,6 17:21 19:6,21
ROBERTS 3:3 16:12 22:6 shipments 36:8 21:21,21,24
19:19 20:18 23:20 26:15,25 shipping 4:19 23:16 28:25
32:13 41:20 45:7,13 43:1 47:21,24 28:23 31:4 34:6 36:2,7
34:22 50:8 52:6,13 48:13,25 51:16 44:19,20 37:5 41:17
39:19 54:9 Scalia 5:6,11,14 show 5:6,8 42:16 43:22
48:6 route 49:24 7:19 8:6,21 11:16 37:1 44:7 45:1,13
53:6 12:9,13 14:10 45:6 47:9,19,21,22
40:21 51:18 28:17 29:4,23 44:19,21 48:10,12 49:1
49:22 54:4 47:8 49:7,10 simply 11:6 stated 17:19
scenario 14:3 40:9 47:2,3 16:3 18:2
s 2:1 3:1 25:13 21:3 situation 14:4 22:3,4,15,19
2:7,11 4:11,22 15:7 sealed 37:5,6 52:11,18 53:14 40:24,24 41:13
41:24 19:22,23,24 second 24:6 skill 26:13 49:15 50:15,21
38:6 46:2 53:3 12:19 Solicitor 1:19 3:22 4:7,10
25:1 sees 4:16 23:18 8:25 13:5,6
Sandra 3:10 seized 48:23 sorry 8:10 35:17 14:5,6 15:13
23:5 support 9:21 12:19 13:15,20 32:14,24 33:18 39:11
32:14 50:4 53:15 16:18 34:4 39:24 thrown 36:10
34:21 supporting 1:21 tell 31:16 46:3 40:4,8 47:11 today 40:6 41:3
39:24 2:11 31:12 51:9 testimony 3:15 told 8:23 19:10
40:14 41:24 telling 20:12 3:21 5:12 6:21 38:9 47:16
47:11 supports 51:9 27:9 47:1 10:4 12:22 transcript 50:16
53:11,15 suppose 16:8 tells 43:4,6 15:23,25 16:4 transcripts
19:9 36:7 48:3 temptation 10:1 17:13 18:15,16 50:19
17:22 supposed 45:4 test 5:25 6:6 20:16 21:18 treatise 9:5
47:13 supreme 1:1,12 15:17 27:22,23 23:11 27:21 trial 3:15 5:17
3:18 49:20 29:12 30:17 29:14,15,15,17 5:22 9:14,18
43:6 51:23 39:10 44:24 35:5,22,24 16:3 17:18,20
50:15 suspect 11:20 tested 5:16,18 37:17 38:11,14 38:16 49:10,11
17:14 22:2 53:2 40:1,2 42:2,7 53:22
28:12 30:18 4:15 5:9,24 6:6 43:3 49:2,4 trier 32:25 35:9
47:9 swabs 4:1 41:8 27:16 28:5,15 testing 5:17 45:9 53:10,11,12
46:6 system 12:21 38:23 tests 9:16 17:9 true 7:1,16,21
tags 15:11 testify 5:17,21 50:12 54:9 trustworthy
48:13 49:15,22 13:20 14:9 thing 7:21 40:22 truth 6:14,14
52:8 19:9 21:24 things 8:1,17 18:2,7,11,15
25:19 37:4 26:10 28:2,16 48:21 24:9,17 26:16
19:5 takes 54:5 46:23 23:7 24:5 34:23 35:5,20
37:1,1 talk 31:8 testifying 7:12 33:12 34:20 39:1,18,20
talking 13:2,2 15:1 20:11 39:13 42:9 40:14 42:17,20
teachers 8:23 41:6 44:2,25 48:20 47:11,17,22
16:19 24:8 10:15 14:5,6 thinks 14:12 51:5 52:9,9
19:6 3:11,15,17,20 10-8505 1:5 3:4
42:3 48:6 10:25 21:2 19:7 22:9 25:6 11:05 1:13 3:2
23:8 42:25 31:18 37:11 12 13:14,19 14:4
27:21 31:15 46:2 42:18 44:5 2011 1:9
wants 14:11,11 45:2,8 46:6 23 2:7
Washington 1:8 witnesses 10:18 3
wasn't 5:17 18:1 46:22
41:23 way 7:5 13:16 4 50:9
36:2 38:2,16 41 2:10
weaken 36:4 worst-case 14:3
wouldn't 5:8
22:2 21:11 writing 11:3 79 43:4
weren't 18:16 21:3
41:8,14 22:10 wrong 4:18
16:10 36:3 46:3 47:2 x 1:2,7
47:3
27:11 We've 11:8 Y
37:3 whatsoever York 13:13 14:3
48:8,16 30:13
