IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JUAN SMITH, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 10-8145
BURL CAIN, WARDEN :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 8, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:11 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Petitioner.
DONNA R. ANDRIEU, ESQ., Assistant District Attorney, New
Orleans, Louisiana; on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DONNA R. ANDRIEU, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:11 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next this morning in Case 10-8145, Smith v. Cain.
Mr. Shanmugam.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
In Brady v. Maryland, this Court established
the now-familiar principle that the prosecution must
hand over all favorable material evidence to the defense
before trial. This case presents a flagrant violation
of that principle.
The Orleans Parish district attorney's
office produced almost no relevant evidence to the
defense before Petitioner's trial, and Petitioner was
convicted of first-degree murder based solely on the
testimony of a single eyewitness. Unbeknownst to the
defense, however, that eyewitness had told the police on
multiple occasions that he could not identify any of the
perpetrators or, as he put it, that he would not know
them if he saw them.
The suppression of those statements alone
justifies a new trial, but the district attorney's
office in this case also engaged in the wholesale
suppression of statements of numerous other witnesses,
statements that further undermined the sole eyewitness
identification of Petitioner and, more broadly, cast
doubt on Petitioner's involvement and role in the
shootings.
If all of that information had been
disclosed to the defense before trial, the jury surely
would have viewed this case in a completely different
light. The trial court therefore erred by rejecting
Petitioner's Brady claim, and its judgment should be
reversed.
In our view, in order to conclude that
Petitioner is entitled to a new trial here, this Court
need do nothing more than to consider the suppressed
statements of the key eyewitness, Larry Boatner.
Respondent concedes that those statements were withheld
from the defense before trial, and argues only that the
failure to disclose those statements was not
prejudicial.
Those statements, however, could not have
more clearly contradicted Boatner's confident
identification of Petitioner at trial --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, he saw a picture.
Boatner saw a picture in a newspaper, and that turned on
the light for him, right? It wasn't any police
suggestion.
MR. SHANMUGAM: That is correct. The basis
for Boatner's identification was that he saw a
photograph in the New Orleans newspaper of Petitioner.
It was in connection with an article describing the
shootings and suggesting that Petitioner was one of the
suspects in the case. And that was what led to his
prior identification out of court.
But just to be clear, Justice Ginsburg,
we're not arguing today that the identification was
somehow constitutionally problematic. At most, we're
arguing that the identification was of questionable
validity in light of the fact that Boatner had only a
limited opportunity to see the perpetrators and in light
of the circumstances that led to his identification.
Now, even if his identification were more
clearly reliable, our argument today would be the same.
In a case such as this one, in which the sole basis for
linking the defendant to the crime is the testimony of a
single eyewitness, and there is evidence that the single
eyewitness said on multiple occasions that he couldn't
identify anyone, we believe that, absent extraordinary
circumstances, that will be sufficient to --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, aren't you
exaggerating a little bit about the value of the
impeachment evidence regarding Boatner? Now, my
understanding is that he made his first statement to the
effect that he couldn't identify anybody at the scene
when he had been at the scene where five people that he
knew very well had been killed.
He was lying on the floor with a big gash on
his head. He was questioned at the scene, and at that
time -- and this was in the evening -- he said: I can't
identify anybody. But then, later that very day, wasn't
it, that very evening, after midnight, he was questioned
at the police station; am I correct?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes, that's correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: And at that point he gave a
description. He did make an -- he did provide a
description of the person that he said was the one who
first came through the door. So, you know, that -- I
don't know -- and then later, he said he -- there were
statements to the effect that he couldn't identify
anybody.
But in light of the fact that he did provide
a pretty, you know, somewhat detailed description on the
very evening of the event, doesn't that -- aren't you
exaggerating when you say that he said numerous times --
the effect of these statements that he couldn't
identify --
MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Alito, it is true
that Boatner provided identifying details in the later
statement that night. I would respectfully submit that
they were relatively limited identifying details, simply
the fact that the first man through the door had a
low-cut haircut and gold teeth. And as we indicate in
our brief, those were characteristics shared by numerous
other suspects in the case.
But I think more broadly, with regard to
both sets of statements at issue here, the State's
explanations for those statements are at best plausible.
And we really think that in a case such as this one, in
which the evidence on its face is so clearly of high
exculpatory or impeaching values, it takes something
more than that. It is not sufficient for Respondent to
argue here simply that, even taking into account these
statements, a rational juror could still reach the same
result and return a verdict of guilty here, because this
Court made clear in Kyles v. Whitley that the standard
for Brady claims is not a Jackson v. Virginia type
sufficiency of the evidence standard.
So, again, where you have statements that on
their face are not simply statements calling a witness's
credibility into question, but statements that really
directly contradict the confident in-court
identification, it would take an exceedingly persuasive
explanation for those statements to defeat a showing of
materiality. Now, with regard --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The standard is a
reasonable probability that the result would have been
different, reasonable probability?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes, that's correct. And
this Court made clear in Kyles v. Whitley that that's
not a more likely than not standard. That is
essentially the same standard that this Court has
articulated for prejudice for ineffective assistance of
counsel claims under Strickland v. Washington, and by
now it's a quite clearly established standard. And,
again, it requires something less than a showing of more
likely than not and perhaps something slightly more than
the showing required for harmless error under Chapman v.
California.
But I do want to touch upon the State's
explanations for these statements and explain very
briefly why we think that those explanations are frankly
not even plausible. With regard to the first statement
to which Justice Alito referred, the statement that was
made at the scene approximately half an hour after
initial -- officers initially responded to the scene,
the State's argument is that Boatner was somehow too
traumatized to make an identification at the time.
But not only did Boatner not so testify at
the postconviction hearing -- in fact he testified that
he couldn't recall the statement at all -- but the very
officer who took the statement himself testified at
trial in this case that at the time of the statement
Boatner was, quote, "coherent and articulated very well
the events that transpired." And that is at pages 137
to 138 of the joint appendix.
JUSTICE ALITO: That may be true, but if you
were a juror and Boatner testified and he was
cross-examined and they attempted to impeach him based
on his failure to make an identification right at the
scene, and he said, well, that was because five of my
friends had just been killed and I was lying on the
floor and I thought I was going to be shot too and I had
a big gash on my head, and then a couple of hours later
when I collected myself and they asked me the same
question at the police station, I provided a description
and didn't say I couldn't identify anybody -- do you
think jurors would just dismiss that and say, well, he
couldn't identify him at the scene so he must have been
lying when he identified -- when he provided a
description later at the police station?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Alito, I think that
it's possible that a juror could credit that explanation
in any retrial, though I --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wasn't there also an
intervening -- didn't he say 5 days after that he
couldn't identify? And that was after what he said on
the night, the same night.
MR. SHANMUGAM: That is --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Five days later he said:
I couldn't -- I couldn't identify him.
MR. SHANMUGAM: That is correct, Justice
Ginsburg. But even if we didn't have the March 6th
statement or statements, I would frankly be happy to
take my chances with the jury, even with regard solely
to the March 1st statement, in light of that testimony
of Officer Ronquillo that Boatner was in fact coherent,
articulated very well the events that transpired, just
like any witness, and so on and so forth.
So, again -- -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counselor --
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- we don't think that it's
our burden to show that no juror could credit the
State's explanation. It's simply that we think that
that explanation doesn't hold water.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counselor, your argument
now and in your brief suggests that you're relying most
heavily on the failure to provide the impeachment
materials of the only witness to this crime and the only
piece of evidence that ties your client to the crime.
But you also mention other things, and Respondents spend
90 percent of their brief arguing against the other
things. But I just want to clarify those other things.
Number one, was the testimony mixed
testimony about whether the assailants wore a mask
across their face or over their entire head?
MR. SHANMUGAM: There --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the best take on
what the evidence showed that was presented on that
issue?
MR. SHANMUGAM: There was some degree of
variation in what the witnesses said. Now, in the main,
we're talking, again, about statements that were
withheld. And I want to lay out those statements very
briefly, if I may. There were two eyewitnesses who made
statements to the police indicating that some or all of
the perpetrators, including the first man through the
door, were wearing masks. Those were the statements of
Shelita Russel and the statement of Dale Mims.
Now, with regard to the statement of Shelita
Russell -- and this was what we believe was the dying
declaration that she made at the scene in the immediate
aftermath of having been shot multiple times -- Russell
said she saw people barge into the kitchen; one had a
black cloth across the face, first one through the door.
So, it is at least theoretically possible --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I ask you
something? Who determines that issue of whether that's
a dying declaration? Do we determine that in deciding
whether the withholding of the Brady materials was
harmful or not? Do we give deference to the lower
court's determination of that? Do they have to decide
whether it was a dying declaration? What's the standard
on something like this?
MR. SHANMUGAM: The lower court did not make
such a determination in this case on this or any of the
other evidentiary issues that Respondent now advances,
at least in part because it does not appear that
Respondent advanced any of those arguments below. But I
think more broadly, Justice Sotomayor, in terms of the
role of this Court or any other court considering a
Brady claim, this Court hasn't quite spoken to the
specific issue of whether a Brady court is supposed to
itself make an evidentiary determination where there's a
question about admissibility, but the closest that this
Court came was in Wood v. Bartholomew, in which this
Court indicated that with regard to Brady material, it
either has to itself be admissible or be reasonably
likely to lead to admissible evidence. And the Court's
reasoning in Wood v. Bartholomew was somewhat spare on
that score. That was a summary reversal in a per curiam
opinion.
But I do think that it would be appropriate
for a Brady court to make that determination itself or,
at a minimum, make a determination as to whether it
appears that it's reasonably likely that the evidence
would be admissible.
Here, we really don't think that it's a
close question, particularly with regard to the
statement of Shelita Russell, because the context of the
handwritten notes makes clear that the statement was
taken at the scene of the crime. Shelita Russell was
taken to the hospital approximately a half an hour after
the shootings occurred. She told two witnesses that she
believed that she was dying. And so, under the law on
dying declarations -- and I have no reason to believe
that the law is any different in Louisiana from the
Federal system or the 49 other States -- that would
comfortably satisfy that requirement.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, Mr. Mims was the
neighbor who saw the two -- there were three assailants
in total, right, and two left the scene?
MR. SHANMUGAM: There's some doubt as to
whether or not there were three or four assailants. And
Mims himself, in all candor, was a little bit
inconsistent on that point. But he consistently said,
both in the handwritten notes and in his testimony at
the postconviction hearing, that all of the assailants,
however many there were, were wearing masks and that --
that he saw them as they were getting into the car. He
didn't say anything further other than that the masks
were ski-type masks.
But the State's argument with regard to the
materiality of Mims's statement is that it is possible
that the men would not have been wearing masks when they
entered the house to allegedly commit the armed robbery;
and, therefore, the fact that Boatner saw the first man
unmasked can be reconciled with his statement. And,
again, we would be happy to take our chances with the
jury and make the argument that that would be an
exceedingly unconventional way to go about committing an
armed robbery.
And, again, with regard to the Russell and
Mims statements, I think it's important to remember that
we view those statements as going directly to and
contradicting Boatner's in-court identification. And
so, in some sense, we view those statements as being of
a piece with Boatner's own prior statements in which he
indicated that he could not identify anyone and that he
did not --
JUSTICE ALITO: Does the defense have any
theory as to why Boatner would lie about whether he
could identify this individual?
MR. SHANMUGAM: First of all, Justice Alito,
it would, of course, not be the defense's burden in any
subsequent retrial to come up with a theory of its own.
The defense could simply argue, as it did at the first
trial, that the prosecution simply didn't bear its
burden on reasonable doubt. But --
JUSTICE ALITO: But, yes -- but the -- the
impact of your impeachment evidence would be related
certainly to if a juror would ask, well, why would he
lie about this? And I -- I'm just asking, would -- did
the defense have any theory about what his motive would
be about whether he could identify somebody, whether
this first person had a mask or not?
MR. SHANMUGAM: As this Court will be aware
from its recent consideration of eyewitness evidence, it
doesn't necessarily follow from the fact that an
eyewitness identification is mistaken that the
eyewitness was somehow lying about it. It may very well
have been that Boatner made a mistaken identification in
good faith out of a desire to identify the person who
killed several of his friends.
And, indeed, as the amicus brief of the
Innocence Project explains in this case, there is a
phenomenon known as "mug shot exposure effect," where an
individual who sees a mug shot in some other context is
more likely to identify that same person when confronted
with a subsequent line-up. Of course, where, as here,
the individual is exposed to the mug shot for the first
time in seeing a newspaper article that depicts the
individual in question and suggests that that individual
is a suspect in the crime, it would not at all be
unusual for the individual, when confronted with that
photograph again in a line-up a few weeks later, to pick
that individual.
JUSTICE ALITO: But the first time he -- he
said that the person wasn't masked and provided a
description was long before he saw any mug shots. It
was the evening of the event. It was when he was
questioned at the police station.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, on the evening of the
event, he provided those limited details about the gold
teeth and the low-cut haircut.
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, but by doing that he's
saying this person wasn't wearing a mask. That's the
critical point.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, that may suggest that
the person was not wearing a mask. Of course, it's
possible that the person somehow had part of his face
covered.
But I think it's important to realize,
Justice Alito, that even with regard to that statement,
while it is true that Boatner provided those limiting
details, he also made statements suggesting that he was
not confident of his ability to actually make an
identification. And in that statement, which is found
at page 296 of the joint appendix, he says: I was too
scared to look at anybody. I wish I could give y'all a
description.
So, in some sense, we think that the focus
on the gold teeth and the low-cut haircut in this case
is a bit of an aside, because the question here is not
whether he saw enough to support the subsequent
identification; the question is whether his suppressed
statements in which he repeatedly said, I can't make an
identification, contradict his in-court confident
identification of Petitioner.
And we think that in order to decide this
case, all that the Court essentially need say in an
opinion is that in a case such as this one, in which all
you have is the identification of a single eyewitness,
where you have statements in which that eyewitness said
I can't make an identification, and those statements
have concededly been suppressed, the Brady materiality
threshold is satisfied.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Am I right --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In looking at the
appendix, there are some asterisks. Were these
statements, the first two -- the one at 252 in the joint
appendix and then the statement on March the 2nd, which
is the one you just referred to, 296, were parts of
those statements given to the defense counsel or none of
the statements? And how long were the documents? Were
they 20 or 30 pages? Can you tell me a little bit about
that?
MR. SHANMUGAM: First of all, none of those
statements were given to the defense. The only
relevant --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I shouldn't have said
"statements." None of the reports.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes. None of the statements
or the surrounding materials was given to the defense at
all. The only even remotely relevant thing that was
given to the defense was the initial police report,
which was a five-page document prepared by the officers
who initially responded to the scene, with a one-page
narrative of what took place. And that document, for
the Court's reference, is in volume 10 of the initial
record that was received from the district court at
pages R1907 to 1911.
Now, with regard to these specific
statements, both the narrative statements and the
handwritten notes, the narrative statements were
contained in a relatively voluminous document -- I
believe it was an 83-page document -- that was a
narrative prepared by Officer Ronquillo that set out
everything that took place over the course of the
investigation. And none of that was disclosed.
Respondent makes the argument that the trial
court reviewed that document in camera, but we think
that it is somewhat unclear what, if anything, the trial
court actually reviewed in camera. There's no dispute
that that document was not handed over to the defense.
With regard to the handwritten notes, there
actually are a relatively small number of relevant
handwritten notes in this case, but all of them were
contained in the police files, and none of them, none of
the ones at issue on which we're relying, was handed
over before trial.
So, this is not a case in which selective
materials were handed over. None of this material was
handed over, and that's why we really think that this is
a case that involves the categorical withholding of
documents and not simply the withholding of selected
documents that may subsequently turn out to be relevant.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you just tell me, how
does Brady work? Is there some obligation for the
defense counsel to say please give me all relevant
reports?
MR. SHANMUGAM: No. This Court has made
clear that a request is unnecessary to trigger the Brady
obligation, and this Court has made clear in cases
dating back to Brady itself that the good faith or bad
faith of the prosecutor is irrelevant. And, of course,
the prosecutor has a duty under Brady to hand over not
only materials in the prosecutor's own possession but
also materials in the possession of the police as well.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, is -- this
group or gang, all of them had gold teeth and faded hair
cuts?
MR. SHANMUGAM: There were five other
suspects who had gold teeth or -- and low-cut haircuts.
Three of the other individuals who were primarily in the
frame for this murder had those characteristics. I
believe that the three were Bannister, Phillips, and
Young. The only other suspect who is a reasonably
likely suspect who didn't was Robert Trackling, the
suspect whose confession to involvement in these
shootings was withheld.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In short, faded hair
cuts and gold teeth were not a unique characteristic.
MR. SHANMUGAM: They were not uncommon in
the 1990s.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, what were these --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: They're uncommon to me.
These --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: These were not gold teeth
that were implanted, right? They -- what was it? Some
kind of a mouthpiece of gold?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I have to admit that my
familiarity with this practice is perhaps not that much
greater than yours, Justice Scalia. But my
understanding is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sorry to hear that.
(Laughter.)
MR. SHANMUGAM: My understanding is that
these are gold teeth that are worn either as temporary
or perhaps semipermanent implants, and that in hip-hop
culture in the 1990s, this was relatively common. But
whatever the provenance of this practice, it is
undisputed on this record that multiple other suspects
had those characteristics.
Justice Sotomayor, there was one thing you
asked that I just want to get back to with regard to the
remaining categories of evidence. I just want to set
them out, and then I'd be happy to answer any questions
that the Court has about them. And if there are no
further questions, I'll reserve the balance of my time.
As we explain in our brief, there are three
other categories of evidence at issue here. There was
the statement of Phillip Young, Petitioner's
co-defendant, suggesting that Petitioner was not
involved in the shootings. There were also the
statements that would have called into question the
prosecution's theory that Petitioner was one of the
shooters, a theory that was essential to establishing
the intent required for first-degree murder under
Louisiana law. Louisiana is somewhat different from
other States in that it doesn't require premeditation,
but that it -- but it does require a specific intent to
kill or inflict great bodily harm.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, on that point, the
State says that you're drawing a meaningless distinction
between a hand -- a 9-millimeter handgun and a
9-millimeter automatic pistol.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we don't think that
that's a meaningless distinction, and we cite numerous
sources in our brief that draw precisely that
distinction.
But I think that what's noteworthy with
regard to the statements at issue is that both Boatner,
who identified the weapon that the perpetrator whom he
believed to be Petitioner was carrying, and the State's
ballistics expert, Kenneth Leary, who identified the
weapon that was responsible for the firing of the
casings at issue, conspicuously failed to say that the
weapon at issue was a 9- millimeter handgun. But at
trial their testimonies suddenly converged, and Boatner,
who had previously said only that the perpetrator was
carrying a handgun, said that the perpetrator was
carrying a 9-millimeter handgun; and Leary, who said
that the casings at issue had come from a machine pistol
of the Intratec or MAC-11 type, suddenly said that they
came from a 9-millimeter handgun instead.
And so, at a minimum, if the defense had
possessed those statements, it could have sown doubt on
whether the firearm was in fact one and the same and,
therefore, sown doubt on a critical element of the
offense at issue.
And finally, the only other category --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'd just like to go back
to that because I'm not sure I understand the argument.
Both the ballistics expert at trial said that the
casings were consistent with a 9-millimeter? And I know
that Boatner said that it was a 9-millimeter that was
used. And the issue was whether anybody would call a
MAC gun a handgun as opposed to an automatic pistol,
correct?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, that's right with
regard to Leary's testimony. I think the thing that was
a little bit odd with regard to Boatner's testimony was
the sudden degree of specificity. Having said only that
it was a handgun or a chrome automatic in his prior
statements, he said at trial that it was a 9-millimeter
handgun, which he had not previously said in the
statements that were withheld.
And, finally, the last category of evidence
consists of the notes of the interview in which Eric
Rogers relayed Robert Trackling's confession to
involvement in the shootings. As the amicus brief of
the NACDL points out, courts have routinely held that
confessions by other perpetrators constitute exculpatory
evidence, even with regard to offenses that may have had
multiple perpetrators. And we certainly believe that at
a minimum the suppression of those notes, when
considered in conjunction with all of the other
evidence, comfortably satisfies the Brady materiality
standard, and it's for that reason that we think that
the judgment of the trial court should be reversed.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Shanmugam, just a quick
one. Was -- is all the evidence that you're discussing
here today -- was that presented to the State
postconviction court?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes. We believe that all of
this evidence was before the State postconviction court.
Thank you, and I'll reserve the balance of
my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Andrieu.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONNA R. ANDRIEU
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
The only survivor who could identify the
assailant who led the massacre in the small home at 2230
North Roman Street was Larry Boatner. He identified --
Larry -- he identified the Petitioner after having
searched the faces of 72 individuals who were presented
to him in photo line-ups, one after the other. And,
yes, Justice Sotomayor, several of the -- those faces or
several of those individuals bore short fade haircuts.
And, yes, some of the individuals who were pictured in
those photo line-ups were other suspects. The record
reflects that Mr. Boatner scrutinized those 72 faces.
At one point, line-up 11 was shown to him on March 22nd,
and he remarked about the haircut. He said: My
assailant wore his hair like this --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does this -- was this
line-up -- was this after Boatner saw the photograph in
the newspaper?
MS. ANDRIEU: No, it was not. I believe
the -- Mr. Smith's photograph was pictured in the
Times-Picayune newspaper on June 7th, and this
particular line-up was shown to Mr. Boatner on March
22nd. So, at that point, line-up 8, he stopped and
remarked about the hair --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me why
Boatner waited 2 weeks to -- or never told the police
that the face that he saw in the newspaper was the face
of his assailant? I -- as I understand the facts, he
says he saw the newspaper, recognized his assailant, and
remained silent.
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes, he did.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It wasn't until they
presented him with the line-up including Mr. Smith's
face that he identified Mr. Smith. What's the reason
for the delay?
MS. ANDRIEU: His reason, Your Honor, is --
it's contained most specifically on page 191 of the
joint appendix, and it is frankly that he was afraid.
He -- and I think the jury would have understood that.
He obviously knew what Mr. Smith was capable of. He --
I'm sure he feared --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so what turned --
what changed his mind once the police showed him the
line-up?
MS. ANDRIEU: Well, I don't know that he
changed his mind, but he was presented with a line-up,
and when he was presented with the line-up, he very
quickly identified Juan Smith and said: That is him; I
will never forget his face. So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that was before or
after the picture in the paper?
MS. ANDRIEU: That was after. And all of
this, by the way, was vetted during -- during a motion
to suppress hearing. When the trial judge learned or --
that the photograph had been shown in the newspaper, he
reopened the hearing on the motion to suppress to
determine -- and over the State's objection. We argued
that this was not State action. But he reopened the
motion to suppress to determine for himself whether or
not that newspaper had in any way tainted the later
identification of Juan Smith.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is this? I mean, I
thought -- I may -- I thought the issue is that there
were some notes, and the first note, which was made on
the day, the policeman says that Boatner said he could
not supply a description of the perpetrator, other than
to say they were black males. Then he said they had
golden teeth and a low-cut haircut.
And 5 days later, he said he could not ID
anyone because he couldn't see faces. Then he said he'd
only glanced at the first man. He couldn't tell if they
had their faces covered and didn't see anyone. Then he
said, I could not ID, would not know them if I saw them.
And another set of police notes says he said that he
could not identify any of the perpetrators of the
murder.
So, I guess those are all notes that the --
the prosecution did not give to the defense. So, if you
were a defense lawyer, whatever this other stuff is, I
guess you would have been pretty happy to have those
notes because you might have tried to impeach his
identification.
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes, and --
JUSTICE BREYER: And so, what are -- you're
saying that I guess it would have made no difference?
MS. ANDRIEU: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Then I'd like to hear that
because it seems on its face that it certainly could
have made a difference, that if he had those notes that
he could have tried to impeach him and said where did
this sudden recognition come from.
MS. ANDRIEU: And I can appreciate your
concern. This Court has held that favorable evidence --
well, this Court has held that favorable evidence which
is not material need not be turned over to the defense.
And if I could --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But how could it not be
material? Here is the only eyewitness --
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- and we have
inconsistent statements. Are you really urging that the
prior statements were immaterial?
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes, Your Honor. If I may put
them in perspective. Mr. Boatner provided two
statements -- I'm sorry. Mr. Boatner provided a
statement on the scene, two statements the day of the
incident. To a first responding officer who was not
Detective Ronquillo, he gave a description, and that
description was heavy built, with a hair with a fade
with a little small top, with a lot of gold in his
mouth. That was while he was at the scene.
Later, homicide Detective John Ronquillo
arrived at the scene, and apparently, according to his
notes and, most importantly, according to his
postconviction testimony, he asked Larry -- he asked
Larry Boatner for a description. And Larry Boatner
said, I can't give you a description.
I'll put them all in perspective and then go
back to what Detective Ronquillo and Mr. Boatner had to
say about that. But in any case, Mr. Boatner's severe
laceration was treated, and then he was escorted to the
homicide office, where he gave his formal statement.
And in that statement, part of which has been reproduced
here by opposing counsel, Mr. Boatner said: I can tell
you about the one, the one who put the pistol in my
face. He was a black male with a low cut, golds in his
mouth. I don't know how many; that's all. I was too
scared to look at anybody. All of them had guns, one
with an AK; one with a TEC-9. The one who hit me had a
chrome automatic. It was big. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, and you
could argue, presumably you did argue, that before the
jury, and that would be compelling evidence for the
jury. And if you were the defense lawyer, you really
would like to have that statement where he said: I
couldn't identify them.
MS. ANDRIEU: You would like to have it, but
it's not material because, sandwiched between two
descriptions -- and he's -- between two descriptions, he
says, I can't identify. And taken in --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does that make it not
material? You can argue that it should be given
diminished weight. But an inconsistent statement by the
only eyewitness seems to me most material and useful to
the defense in cross-examining the eyewitness. I really
don't understand how you can -- you can argue that the
jury shouldn't put much weight on it because there were
these other things; but to say that it's immaterial I
find that that is -- is not plausible.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And not only the only
eyewitness but, if I understand it correctly, the only
evidence against the defendant. This was the only
evidence against him, this one eyewitness
identification, right? Was there anything else?
MS. ANDRIEU: There was -- the
identification of Juan Smith was bolstered by evidence,
by testimony of the brother of Phillip Young. The
perpetrator who was left at the scene is an aphasic
amnesiac. So, he established a link that the two were
known to each other, Juan Smith and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --
MS. ANDRIEU: -- but yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But just on the
materiality point, I -- I just have to agree with
Justice Ginsburg. What you're telling us is that when
the defense stands up and said, and isn't it true that,
in this statement which you just have testified to on
direct and which the police have put in on direct, you
also said you could not identify any perpetrators of the
murder -- and then the prosecutor says immaterial, and
the judge says strike it.
MS. ANDRIEU: But that's not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just can't believe that.
MS. ANDRIEU: But that's not what he says.
He says: I can tell you about the one, the one who put
the pistol in my face.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, I take it that your --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm talking about the
Boatner statement of 3/6/95, in which Boatner told
police he could not identify any of the perpetrators of
the murder, JA 259-60.
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you say that's
immaterial. I find that just incredible.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is it that you mean
immaterial, or is it that you mean that it wasn't
prejudicial because there's so much other evidence,
there was no reasonable probability it would have made a
difference in the trial?
MS. ANDRIEU: That is what I mean, yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, we can forget
the word "material."
Now, you're saying there's so much other
evidence here against him that it wouldn't have made any
difference.
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, I can understand that
argument.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I --
JUSTICE BREYER: But I don't know if it's
right. That is -- that is -- now I think I can go back
to Justice Kennedy's question, put it in those terms,
and say, well, why wouldn't -- this could have made a
difference. I mean, here, we have this witness who said
all of these great things for your side, and within a
space of hours, he has been telling the policemen that
he can't identify anybody, he doesn't know. I mean,
what -- that sounds like there's a probability that
would have made a difference. Why not?
MS. ANDRIEU: The -- among the most
important evidence in this case is the testimony or the
transcript from the postconviction relief hearing. John
Ronquillo, whose notes these are, was asked about the
March 6th statement. And I guess we are
fast-forwarding. The next -- the statement after the
statement made -- the one made in the homicide office
was made on March 6th. And at that time, Detective
Ronquillo called Larry Boatner, and Larry Boatner said,
I can't identify anyone.
Based -- and what Detective Ronquillo had to
say about that -- first of all, Larry Boatner didn't
remember saying that. But what Detective Ronquillo had
to say about it -- and he was the person who was --
whose impressions -- about whose impressions we're
speaking -- was that at that point, Mr. Boatner, like
many murder witnesses, was retreating, temporarily
equivocating, as we wrote in brief. He was retreating
somewhat from his assistance with the police. Not an --
not an abnormal phenomenon --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What if -- what if --
could the jury be entitled to reject that conclusion?
They have four statements by this man who Ronquillo
described as very coherent, very with it at the scene of
the crime. Would a jury be entitled to -- to reject
that excuse by Ronquillo?
MS. ANDRIEU: They would, Your Honor.
And --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And if they were
entitled to do that, why would the absence of four
statements that I can't identify someone not have been
an argument that defense counsel could have used, number
one, and that had a reasonable probability of making a
difference?
MS. ANDRIEU: First of all, there were not
four statements that were made where Boatner said he
couldn't identify anyone, again. He gave two statements
the day of where he described, and one statement --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: At different hours.
MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: At different hours.
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And to different
officers.
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, that's two
statements. My math is wrong?
MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry. Those are
statements where he inculpated the defendant. There are
two statements. Starting on the scene, there is a
statement provided to the first responding officer,
where he provides a description. Larry Boatner provides
a description --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it is a description
that others, other suspects, fit. The close-cut hair,
the gold teeth. That didn't identify Smith, as opposed
to the other suspects who had those same
characteristics.
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. And those other
suspects' photographs were all contained -- were
contained in photo IDs -- in photo line-ups, and
Mr. Boatner never selected one of them.
The other thing is he -- gold teeth. He
knew that his perpetrator had gold teeth. The next time
he saw Mr. Smith was at trial in court. Mr. Smith
revealed his teeth, and he had gold teeth. But as far
as the other suspects having the haircut or physical --
similar physical attributes --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was a prior
inconsistent statement, and we can argue about whether
there were more consistent statements than inconsistent
statements, but to say that this was not Brady material,
we -- we're not saying that Larry Boatner made up a
story on the stand that wasn't -- didn't conform to the
truth. The question is, should the prosecutor -- should
the defense attorney have access to a prior inconsistent
statement?
MS. ANDRIEU: And this Court has said that
Brady is a reflective -- is a reflective analysis. He
did not --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, can you explain how
this -- how this took place? You have a case in which
you're -- you're relying almost entirely on the
testimony of one witness, and you have these notes that
were taken by, and are presumably in the possession of,
the lead investigator. Wouldn't any prosecutor ask the
lead -- the lead investigator, do you have any
statements of this witness?
MS. ANDRIEU: Absolutely.
JUSTICE ALITO: They have to be examined,
and if there's anything in them that's -- that is
impeachment material, they have to be turned over to the
defense. And under Louisiana law, is there are a rule
that requires the turning over of statements by
witnesses, prior statements by witnesses?
MS. ANDRIEU: Under Louisiana law, prior
statements of witnesses are not discoverable. But of
course, under this Court's decision in Brady v.
Maryland, if the prosecutor makes a determination that
they would materially affect the outcome of --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you have to --
MS. ANDRIEU: -- guilt or innocence --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You have to supply
statements by a witness when they take the stand, don't
you? Those are immaterial? Don't you have to turn
over --
MS. ANDRIEU: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:
Louisiana?
MS. ANDRIEU: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:
over witness statements when they're taking the stand?
MS. ANDRIEU: No. And these statements were
provided in camera. There was -- defense filed a motion
for discovery, and he asked for Brady material. He
asked specifically for the supplemental report, which is
where these statements are contained.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you -- are you
claiming that the judge's failure to catch these
inconsistencies excuses your Brady obligation?
MS. ANDRIEU: Not at all. The Brady
obligation is ours. In fact, we believe that that's
actually a poor practice. But it is one --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Andrieu, if I could go
back to Justice Alito's question, was the problem here
that the prosecutors never received these statements
from the police officers, or did the prosecutors make a
determination similar to the kind of argument that
you're making today -- make a determination that these
statements simply should not be turned over because they
are not material?
MS. ANDRIEU: The prosecutor in this case
actually turned them over to the trial court for an in
camera inspection. And article -- Louisiana Code of
Criminal Procedure article 718 actually provides for
that practice.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's so odd that -- I mean,
look, it seems like here it is 5 days after the shooting
and well before, I guess, that this witness saw any mug
shots or did anything. And he says, I could not
identify anyone, because he couldn't see the faces of
the people. And now you're saying later, which you
introduce into trial, his having looked at the faces of
people and identified them from their faces.
Now, previously, he said he couldn't see
their faces. All right. And in Louisiana, the State of
Louisiana, the prosecution and the judges say that
isn't -- you don't have to turn over that statement that
he couldn't see the faces made earlier.
MS. ANDRIEU: No. What he --
JUSTICE BREYER: What?
MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry. When he's saying
that he could not see the faces, he is not referring to
Juan Smith. He and Detective Ronquillo testified at
postconviction that he always said he could identify the
one, the one whose face appeared a handgun's length from
his own, unmasked, when he opened that front door at
2230 North Roman.
Detective Ronquillo put this in perspective
at postconviction. And as I said, he --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, you mean all these --
all these statements that we have here, you're saying,
all referred to people other than the defendant.
MS. ANDRIEU: Juan. Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, was there
a finding on that?
MS. ANDRIEU: There was -- the judge did not
give express findings of fact or finding of law, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: Perhaps the defense would
have liked to say they did apply to the defendant.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't say all of them.
All of them didn't apply to the --
MS. ANDRIEU: No. The one at the scene,
when he says I can't describe anyone here, clearly --
JUSTICE BREYER: This was not at the scene.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That applied to everyone,
right?
MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The one at the scene
applied to everyone.
MS. ANDRIEU: To everyone.
JUSTICE SCALIA: "I can't identify anyone."
MS. ANDRIEU: March 6th --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MS. ANDRIEU: -- applied to everyone --
everyone except Juan Smith.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, you're --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Wait, wait. I'm
sorry. You've lost me there. When he says I can't
identify anyone, Smith is out of that group already?
MS. ANDRIEU: Oh, I'm sorry. No. He's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry. In both
circumstances, he is saying -- the first time, he's
saying, I can't describe. The second time, he is
saying, I can't help you; I can't identify everyone.
But the jury would have --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. He says, I
can't identify --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Excuse me. I can't
identify everyone or everyone?
MS. ANDRIEU: Anyone.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
MS. ANDRIEU: And the jury would have
heard --
JUSTICE BREYER: He says, I can't identify
anyone because I couldn't see faces. Okay? That's what
it says here, at least in my notes that my law clerks
gathered. And --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, I -- and my
point then is this seems very odd, I mean, really
unusual that in the State of Louisiana that they have
some kind of system that doesn't turn that statement
over to the defense.
MS. ANDRIEU: It was turned over to the
judge under article 718 for in-camera inspection.
JUSTICE ALITO: Where's that reflected in
the record? I --
MS. ANDRIEU: That's on October 31st of
1995. There is a hearing.
JUSTICE ALITO: What you said in your brief
was that the judge determined that the supplemental
report relating to the North Roman Street murders
contains no Brady material.
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. Mr. Smith --
JUSTICE ALITO: I didn't understand the
record to be that all of Boatner's statements -- that
all the statements of Boatner that we're concerned about
now were examined by the judge before--
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- trial?
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: And the record reflects that
where?
MS. ANDRIEU: The transcript of October
31st, 1995. The --
JUSTICE KAGAN: And is it the view of the
prosecutor's office that because those materials were
turned over to the judge, assuming that they were turned
over to the judge, that that obviates the Brady
obligation?
MS. ANDRIEU: Not at all.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Is that the view of the
prosecutor's office?
MS. ANDRIEU: Not at all. We believe it's a
bad practice. But it is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did you concede there was
a Brady violation in this case?
MS. ANDRIEU: Did we concede?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you now concede--
MS. ANDRIEU: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- there was a Brady
violation in the case?
MS. ANDRIEU: No. If the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're telling the Court
that this should have been kept from the defense, all of
it?
MS. ANDRIEU: Under this --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under Brady.
MS. ANDRIEU: -- Court's decision in Kyles,
I believe a prudent prosecutor would have disclosed it.
I do not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Kyles is a decision
saying what the prosecutor must disclose, not it's a
good practice.
MS. ANDRIEU: No. But --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, is there a violation
under our holding in Kyles?
MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there a Brady
violation under our holding in Kyles?
MS. ANDRIEU: No, there is not.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, explain why what is
on its face seemingly inconsistent statements are not
required to be turned over.
MS. ANDRIEU: With regard to the March 6th
statement where Larry Boatner tells John Ronquillo at
that point, I can't identify anyone, what Mr. -- what
Detective Ronquillo had to say about that is
dispositive. And he said, at that point Larry Boatner
was withdrawing from -- he was afraid -- he was
withdrawing from police assistance.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't understand how
he becomes the arbiter of what's Brady. You said to me
earlier that a jury would be entitled to reject his
conclusion. All right? Tell me what -- how his
conclusion makes it non-Brady if a juror could decide
differently.
MS. ANDRIEU: The -- the postconviction
testimony is pivotal because there is a petition that's
filed with attachments, with exhibits. That is what
gets, and that is what got, Mr. Smith his day in court,
his four-day postconviction hearing testimony --
postconviction hearing. Larry Boatner took the stand.
What Larry Boatner had to say and what John Ronquillo
had to say -- because after all, these are John
Ronquillo's notes -- I think they are important. And I
think they're important in a Brady analysis because
those are --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There are two components
to Brady. Should they have been turned over? And if
they had, is there a reasonable probability of a
different outcome?
MS. ANDRIEU: There is not.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Should they have been
turned over? That's the question that I think my
colleague asked you, and you're saying no.
MS. ANDRIEU: No. I believe that a prudent
prosecutor would have. I believe we're tacking a little
bit too close to the wind, but a prudent prosecutor
would have. I also think that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Now
articulate what legal theory --
MS. ANDRIEU: Because it -- because Mr. --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- would say these are
not -- these are not materials that needed to be turned
over, when they say: Could not ID; would not know them
if I saw them; can't tell if had faces covered; didn't
see anyone. That's one of the notes. The other one: I
don't know how many, that's all; I was too scared to
look at anybody. And --
What makes any of those statements --
MS. ANDRIEU: If Mr. Boatner could not
identify anyone, Mr. Boatner would not have viewed 15
lineups. When the lineups were presented to him --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is all a jury
argument.
MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me why they didn't
on their face constitute Brady materials that needed to
be turned over. What's the legal principle that doesn't
make them Brady?
MS. ANDRIEU: Because if they had been
presented -- if those statements had been presented to
defense -- or presented to a jury, the -- the outcome
would have remained the same. The jury --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you know? How do
you know? How can you possibly know? The jury is
supposed to decide on the credibility of this witness.
There's a statement that he made a prior inconsistent
statement. The -- Mr. Shanmugam outlined five
categories of what he called Brady material. Is -- are
you maintaining that none of those categories, that
there was no Brady material at all in this case?
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. You're speaking of the
other pieces of evidence?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. Well, I'm -- I'm not
sure if the Charity Hospital's medical records of
Mr. Boatner are still being urged to this Court as --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm talking about Mims
and -- what was the woman's name? Russell?
MS. ANDRIEU: Shelita Russell. Well --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And Young and the snitch,
the one who said that his cellmate told him that his
cellmate was the perpetrator.
MS. ANDRIEU: Well, to be clear, Ms. Russell
never made a dying declaration. What the defense is
presenting to this Court as evidence of a dying
declaration are words and dashes of Detective Ronquillo
written at some point where he -- written at some
point --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was it a determination by
the judge that it wasn't a dying declaration?
MS. ANDRIEU: The judge, again, did not make
specific facts of finding or law. The judge -- I'm
sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And how about Mims?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because it was not --
because it was not turned over. And with all respect, I
think you misspoke when you -- you were asked what is --
what is the test for when Brady material must be turned
over. And you said whether or not there's a reasonable
probability -- a reasonable likelihood -- pardon me -- a
reasonable probability that the result would have been
different. That's the test for when there has been a
Brady violation. You don't determine your Brady
obligation by the test for the Brady violation. You're
transposing two very different things.
And so, that's incorrect.
MS. ANDRIEU: And I'm sorry, Justice
Ginsburg, your -- Shelita Russell did not give a dying
declaration. The notes are --
JUDGE GINSBURG: All right. Let's go to
Mims, who said, I saw them -- I saw the perpetrators go
to their car when they were exiting. They had ski
masks.
MS. ANDRIEU: And that information -- Dale
Mims testified at postconviction. He testified he did
not see the assailants arrive. He did not see them --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But isn't it most
unlikely, as your -- as Mr. Shanmugam said, that
robbers -- I mean, the people who are entering,
intruding on another's premises to rob, or whatever else
they're going to do, would wear masks going out but not
going in? I mean, they don't want anybody -- they don't
want anybody to be able to identify them.
MS. ANDRIEU: And it's plausible that
Mr. Boatner -- I'm sorry -- that Mr. Smith masked
himself upon escape after --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, is that maybe --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought -- I'm
sorry. I thought the idea was they were going to kill
everybody who might have seen them inside. Their only
worry would be someone who would see them outside,
right?
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. So worried that the car
that they arrived in had no license plate. They were
definitely looking not to be identified.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Andrieu, did your office
ever consider just confessing error in this case?
MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Did your office ever
consider just confessing error in this case? You've had
a bunch of time to think about it. You know? We took
cert a while ago. I'm just wondering whether you've
ever considered confessing error.
MS. ANDRIEU: Your Honor, we believe that we
have an argument that these statements of Larry Boatner
are not material. The other evidence that Mr. Shanmugam
has put before this Court were either not suppressed or
not favorable. The -- Larry Boatner gave several -- he
-- he did describe Juan Smith. He described him on
several occasions, and he ultimately identified him, and
he identified him after scrupulously viewing 13
line-ups.
So, the suggestion that he said at one
point -- because he's equivocating because his name is
on -- his name, address, contact information are on the
police report. It is not a surprise -- and I don't
think it would be a surprise to Orleans Parish jurors --
to find that, early in an investigation, a murder
witness equivocates. He --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you're taking that
judgment away from the jury. There was a prior
inconsistent statement. Shouldn't that be the end of
it? A prior inconsistent statement, one that is
favorable to the defense, has to be turned over, period.
I thought was what Brady requires.
MS. ANDRIEU: And in this case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- may I suggest that --
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- you stop fighting as to
whether it should be turned over? Of course, it should
have been turned over. I think the case you're making
is that it wouldn't have made a difference.
MS. ANDRIEU: Made a difference. Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and that's a closer
case, perhaps, but surely it should have been turned
over. Why don't you give that up?
MS. ANDRIEU: Well, I -- and I actually
thought I had when I said a prudent prosecutor would,
but in making a sort of over-the-shoulder, rear-window
Brady analysis, I don't think that these statements --
that the statements made to -- the statement made to
Ronquillo at the scene where he's all shook up and he
says, I can't describe anybody; then he goes to the
hospital, gets his severe laceration taken care of --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, my worry is the
following: You've read Cullen.
MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You read Cullen.
MS. ANDRIEU: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You read the dissent in
Cullen. There has been serious accusations against the
practices of your office, not yours in particular but
prior ones. It is disconcerting to me that when I asked
you the question directly should this material have been
turned over, you gave an absolute no. It didn't need to
be. It would have been prudent, but it didn't need to
be. That's really troubling.
MS. ANDRIEU: And I think I misunderstood
your question -- I think I misunderstood your question.
Should it have been turned over? Yes. Now that we are
here 16 years later, and the Court is making --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the second prong
of Brady. I said there were two prongs to Brady. Do
you have to turn it over, and, second, does it cause
harm. And the first one you said not. That -- it is
somewhat disconcerting that your office is still
answering equivocally on a basic obligation as one that
requires you to have turned these materials over --
MS. ANDRIEU: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- whether it caused
harm or not.
MS. ANDRIEU: If -- if I may explain. I
obviously misunderstood your question. Present-day
prosecutors -- oh, I'm sorry. May I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can, very
briefly.
MS. ANDRIEU: We would have -- today we turn
all of this over. Our only concern is redacting victim
information, identifying information, so that -- for
victims' safety. But it -- it should have been turned
over. I guess what I was addressing or attempting to
address was the materiality prong of Brady.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MS. ANDRIEU: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Shanmugam, 4
minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.
Just three very quick points. First of all,
with regard to Larry Boatner's statements on March the
6th, Justice Breyer, you'll be happy to know that your
law clerks' notes were correct. Boatner on March the
6th said -- and this is at page 308 of the joint
appendix -- could not ID anyone because couldn't see
faces; can't tell if had faces covered; didn't see
anyone; would not know them if I saw them.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not surprised they're
correct.
(Laughter.)
MR. SHANMUGAM: It is quite clear that that
statement applies to all of the perpetrators. The State
advances the argument today, as it did in its brief,
that Boatner must have been too scared to cooperate by
March the 6th, but that is utterly belied by the record
in this case. Boatner continued to cooperate with the
police investigation in the following weeks, reviewing
police line-ups. He even testified that he wanted to go
looking for Petitioner after seeing his photograph in
the New Orleans newspaper, pages 489 and 494 of the
joint appendix. He didn't leave New Orleans until June,
3 months later, and he actually returned to New Orleans
before Petitioner was even apprehended. So, again --
JUSTICE ALITO: It is your understanding
that the -- that all of Boatner's -- all the notes about
Boatner's statements were turned over to the judge
before trial for in camera inspection?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Alito, it is
entirely unclear based on this record. Counsel for
Respondent cites the transcript from October 31st, 1995,
a transcript that wasn't even prepared until after cert
was granted in this case.
It's clear that the court reviewed
something, but it is entirely unclear from that
transcript what the court reviewed. And, of course,
even if the court had made an in camera determination,
it would no way -- in no way affect our claim after the
fact here.
My second point: The State today for the
first time says, in response to the question from
Justice Scalia, that there was more evidence here
linking Petitioner to the crime and relies on the
testimony of Eddie Young, the brother of Phillip Young,
the individual who was found at the scene. But the sole
substance of that testimony was that Phillip Young knew
Petitioner. And we would respectfully submit that that
is scarcely inculpatory, and if it was, anyone in New
Orleans who knows a felon ought to be worried. And,
therefore, we really don't think that that adds anything
to the evidence in this case. The sole evidence linking
Petitioner to the crime was the statement -- the
testimony of Larry Boatner.
Third, there has been some discussion about
the language in this Court's cases in Kyles and Agurs
suggesting that prosecutors should err on the side of
caution. That is part of the constitutional standard
because, after all, the materiality requirement is part
of the requirement for a constitutional violation under
Brady. But all of the evidence at issue here, including
Boatner's statements, was withheld from the defense,
leaving aside this question of what the trial court may
have reviewed in camera.
And the prosecutor's conduct in this case,
with all due respect to Ms. Andrieu, was not, quote, "a
little too close to the wind." The Orleans Parish
district attorney's office acted with flagrant disregard
for its obligations under Brady in this case. The Brady
standard has been around for half a century. There is
no real ambiguity about what that standard requires, and
we think that the conduct in this case was in fact
egregious and clearly violated that standard. We think
that the trial court erred by rejecting Petitioner's
Brady claim, and for that reason, we think that its
judgment should be reversed.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:12 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
57:16 46:4 52:10 appeared 40:10 asked 9:19 22:7 behalf 1:16,18
29:3,6,12,19 55:7 assailant 25:23 11:25 13:20
34:5 35:6,14 apply 40:24 41:1 49:21 44:1,17 46:14
38:11,14,17,25 55:9 assuming 43:20 best 7:12 11:12
41:21,23 42:7 8:24 13:17 attempted 9:13 17:18 18:15
43:6,11,13,16 argue 7:17 attorney 1:17 black 12:4 28:12
45:20 46:10,14 argues 4:18 attributes 36:22 9:1,3,8,12
48:13,21 49:12 argument 1:12 aware 15:21 23:9,16 24:8
52:3 14:12,19 19:15 B 29:24,25 30:11
8:23 9:11 another's 49:25 50:25 54:7,24 bad 20:14 44:2 35:15 36:6,16
15:5,8,14 answer 22:9 arguments balance 22:11 37:2 43:9 45:8
17:8 answering 53:12 12:18 25:14 45:11,25 46:1
37:10,19 anybody 6:4,10 armed 14:15,21 ballistics 23:12 47:4,5 48:6
43:2,7 6:20 9:21 arrive 49:21 24:6 50:5,25 51:3
55:10 17:14 24:9 arrived 30:8 Bannister 21:1 54:14,25 55:2
30:23 34:2 50:14 barge 12:3 56:13
30:15 Cain 1:6 3:4 chances 10:14 colleague 46:13 consistent 24:7
54:12 California 8:18 14:18 collected 9:19 36:25
56:21 call 24:9 changed 27:13 come 15:10 consistently
12:9,21 38:18 39:13 characteristics committing constitute 24:25
13:1,8 55:13,22 56:23 7:8 20:25 22:5 14:20 47:11
20:8,12 candor 14:4 36:12 common 22:2 constitutional
25:5 capable 27:10 Charity 48:5 compelling 31:3 56:17,19
38:2,19 car 14:9 49:17 Chief 3:3,8 completely 4:9 constitutionally
43:5 50:13 25:16,20 31:1 components 5:12
44:4,8 care 52:14 41:18,22 42:5 46:6 contact 51:10
45:1,15 carrying 23:11 42:8 50:8 concede 44:3,5,6 contained 19:10
47:11 23:18,19 53:20 54:3,5,9 concededly 18:5 19:23 27:7
case 3:4,13 4:1,9 57:12 concedes 4:17 36:14,15 38:21
5:8,19 7:9,13 chrome 24:16 concern 29:13 contains 43:5
52:10 9:7 12:15 16:5 30:25 53:23 context 13:14
54:2 17:17,25 18:1 circumstances concerned 43:9 16:7
57:3,3,9 19:22 20:1,4 5:16,24 41:24 conclude 4:13 continued 55:2
32:22 37:11 39:11 cites 55:16 45:17,18 17:22
44:4,9 47:25 claim 4:11 12:21 conduct 56:24 contradicted
40:5,15 50:17,20 51:21 55:23 57:9 57:6 4:22
41:4 52:1,5 55:2,18 claiming 38:23 confessing 50:17 contradicting
42:3,11 56:11,24 57:3 claims 7:21 8:13 50:20,23 14:25
54:13,19 57:6,14,15 clarify 11:7 confession 21:4 converged 23:16
22:12 56:15 8:9 13:15 confessions cooperate 54:25
24:23 casings 23:14,20 20:12,13 48:13 24:25 55:2
43:2 24:7 54:22 55:19 confident 4:22 correct 5:3 6:12
cast 4:4 clearly 4:22 5:18 8:1 17:11,22 6:13 8:8 10:11
53:21 categorical 20:4 57:7 confronted 16:8 54:14,20
22:13 47:23,24 54:14 conjunction counsel 8:13
cause 53:9 close 13:13 connection 5:6 25:16 30:19
48:12 close-cut 36:9 15:22 Counselor 10:20
38:2 cuts 20:21 21:7 depicts 16:11 44:20 earlier 40:3
55:21 describe 41:3,25 disclosed 4:8 45:16
4:10,14 D 3:1 described 35:3 disconcerting Eddie 56:4
7:20 8:9,11 Dale 11:23 35:17 51:4 52:23 53:11 effect 6:4,19,25
49:19 describing 5:6 discoverable 16:6
13:1 dashes 48:16 description 6:15 38:1 egregious 57:7
15:21 dating 20:14 6:16,22 9:20 discovery 38:19 either 13:2
19:5,16 day 6:10 28:10 9:25 16:19 discussing 25:9 21:25 51:2
20:11,13 30:1 35:17 17:15 28:11 discussion 56:14 element 24:1
25:7,11 45:23 30:3,4,11,12 dismiss 9:22 engaged 4:1
29:13 days 10:5,9 36:6,7,8 dispositive entered 14:15
36:19 28:14 39:17 descriptions 45:11 entering 49:24
39:12 decide 12:11 31:9,9 dispute 19:18 entire 11:10
45:23 17:24 45:18 desire 16:2 disregard 57:2 entirely 37:12
51:2 47:20 detailed 6:22 dissent 52:20 55:15,20
55:19,21 deciding 12:8 details 7:3,5 distinction 23:1 entitled 4:14
56:22 decision 38:2 16:23 17:10 23:5,7 35:1,4,9 45:16
44:16,19 Detective 30:3,7 district 1:17 equivocally
19:4 38:2 48:16,20 49:14 45:10 48:16 document 19:1 51:14
56:15 declarations determination 19:3,10,11,16 equivocating
46:24 defeat 8:3 13:8,9 38:3 documents Eric 24:21
defendant 5:20 39:7,8 48:19 18:14 20:5,6 err 56:16
40:17,24 determine 12:8 DONNA 1:17 error 8:17 50:17
3:20 4:8,18 determined 43:3 door 6:17 7:6 escape 50:6
13:16 19:19 20:9 29:9 33:9,15 doubt 4:5 14:2 2:6,9
35:4 23:23 28:23,24 33:24 34:4 15:13 23:24 essential 22:19
29:15 31:4,15 35:13 52:2,3 24:1 essentially 8:11
40:23 42:20 35:18,20,22 due 56:25 8:14 32:4
48:14 51:19 differently dying 11:25 12:8 22:19
defense's 15:9 diminished 48:14,15,20 6:23 16:20,22
definitely 50:15 direct 32:13,13 D.C 1:8,15 16:23
6:2 7:14 11:19 finding 40:20,22 G 3:1 guilt 38:6
11:4,13 48:22 gang 20:20 guilty 7:19
15:15 F findings 40:22 gun 24:10
22:8,13 face 7:14,24 firearm 23:25 gathered 42:14 guns 30:23
25:1,5,9 11:10 12:4 firing 23:13 getting 14:9
29:13,14 17:5 26:22,22 first 6:3,17 7:6 H
27:4,19 29:8 8:22 11:21 5:10 10:4,9,12 hair 20:20 21:6
33:7,14 30:21 32:21 12:4 14:16 26:11 27:20 26:10,19 30:4
48:2,15 40:10 45:5 15:8,11,20 29:17,20 31:11 36:9
56:2,11 47:11 16:10,17 18:10 32:10 36:8,23 haircut 7:7
faces 26:1,3,7 18:17 28:9,16 44:19 47:18 16:24 17:17
39:22,23,25 35:14 36:5 48:24 49:13,15 36:21
46:24 54:17,17 54:11 56:1 51:15 26:4
7:6 9:4 10:16 3:18 22:20 20:9 28:23 57:4
23:25 39:1 five 6:5 9:15 49:13 52:6 23:2
24:25 57:6 47:22 18:23,25 31:12 20:2,3
failure 4:19 9:14 follow 15:23 goes 52:13 handwritten
37:10 faith 16:2 20:14 55:3 50:1,1,2,9 19:9,20,22
53:17 20:15 forget 27:19 gold 7:7 16:23 happy 10:13
far 36:20 forth 10:18 30:5 36:10,17 harm 22:24
8:20,21 34:10 56:5 golden 28:13 harmful 12:10
Federal 13:22 frankly 8:21 great 22:24 29:7
4:3,16 fighting 51:24 friends 9:16 greater 21:20 hearing 9:4 14:7
15:22 filed 38:18 45:22 16:3 group 20:20 27:24 28:1
18:2 files 19:23 front 40:11 41:20 34:7 43:1
29:18 finally 24:3,20 further 4:3 guess 28:22,25 45:24,25
find 31:19 33:4 14:10 22:11 29:5 34:9 heavily 11:2
32:25 34:2,14 indicated 13:1 issues 12:16 21:10,12,15,20
53:24 20:24 26:1,4,5 joint 9:10 17:13 31:1,11,20
34:11 29:22 31:18 information 4:7 Juan 1:3 27:18 33:5,11,17,19
35:6 38:9 53:24,24 40:8,18 41:15 35:8,18,20,22
53:14 immediate 12:1 initial 8:25 51:4 35:25 36:8,23
impeach 9:13 initially 8:25 32:16 40:21 38:7,12,15,22
impeachment inside 50:10 55:12 41:16,17,18,22
42:22 55:13 judge's 38:23 42:23 43:2,7
54:16 important 14:23 interview 24:21 57:10 44:19,23 45:1
5:4,9,11 importantly intruding 49:25 10:2,22 15:16 47:7,10,18
8:2 30:9 investigation 45:18 48:3,7,10,19
14:25 impressions 19:14 51:13 jurors 9:22 48:24,25 49:12
16:1 34:19,19 55:3 51:12 49:22 50:7,8
incident 30:2 investigator jury 4:8 10:14 50:16,19 51:15
28:6 including 11:21 37:15,16 14:19 27:9 51:22,24 52:4
31:24 27:3 56:20 involved 22:16 31:3,4,17 35:1 52:15,18,20
inconsistencies involvement 4:5 35:4 42:2,9 53:7,15,20
25:24 inconsistent involves 20:4 47:17,19 51:16 54:19 55:10,14
27:4,18 14:5 29:21 in-camera 42:22 Justice 3:3,9 56:2 57:12
50:15 31:13 36:24,25 in-court 8:1 4:24 5:10,25 justifies 3:25
37:5 45:5 14:25 17:22 6:14 7:2 8:5,23
6:4,10,19 incorrect 49:11 issue 7:11 11:14 10:11,20,25 K 1:15 2:3,9 3:6
9:21,23 incredible 33:4 12:7,22 19:24 11:12 12:6,19 54:7
15:3,7 inculpated 36:3 22:13 23:9,14 13:24 15:5,8 KAGAN 25:8
16:2,8 inculpatory 23:15,20 24:2 15:14 16:17,25 33:19 39:3
50:16 Laughter 21:11 long 16:19 18:14masks 11:22 misspoke 49:2
21:14,23 42:15 look 17:14 30:23 14:8,10,11,14 mistaken 15:24
3:6 54:7 law 13:19,21 looked 39:22 massacre 25:23 misunderstood
20:7 40:22 42:13 50:15 55:5 13:1 20:2 mixed 11:8
48:22 54:14 lost 41:19 29:15,18 31:8 months 55:8
44:3,6,8 lawyer 28:24 lot 30:5 31:12,14 33:12 morning 3:4
48:25 31:4 Louisiana 1:18 37:1,21 38:19 motion 27:23
lead 13:3 37:15 37:22,25 38:13 47:23,25 49:3 motive 15:18
leaving 56:22 16:24 17:17 materially 38:4 multiple 3:21
left 14:1 32:3 lying 6:7 9:16,2412:9 18:23 25:2
56:6 length 40:10 M 47:11 53:13 28:21 32:15
24:7 license 50:14 machine 23:20 matter 1:11 51:13
28:18 lie 15:6,17 MAC-11 23:21 57:16 murders 43:4
33:20 light 4:10 5:1,14 main 11:16 mean 28:7 33:5
46:23 5:15 6:21 maintaining 33:6,10,24 N
10:15 47:24 34:2 39:16 N 2:1,1 3:1
54:13,18 liked 40:24 making 35:12 40:15 42:17 NACDL 24:24
limiting 17:9 males 28:12 medical 48:5 19:9,12
56:15 lineups 47:6,6 man 7:6 11:21 men 14:14 necessarily
line-ups 26:2,6 18:11 26:8,17 23:15 53:1
30:10 link 32:4 55:1 48:7,24 49:16 neighbor 13:25
34:13 linking 5:20 Maryland 3:10 49:20 never 26:21
36:6 56:3,11 38:3 Mims's 14:13 27:19 36:16
45:8,11 little 6:1 14:4 mask 11:9 15:20 mind 27:13,16 39:5 48:14
46:1 18:15 24:14 17:1,4 minimum 13:9 new 1:17 3:25
51:3 30:5 46:15 masked 16:18 23:23 25:3 4:14 5:5 55:6,7
56:13 57:1 50:5 minutes 54:6 55:8 56:8
16:11 offenses 25:1 pages 9:9 18:15 57:8 27:13 28:19
office 3:16 4:1 19:6 55:6 phenomenon 32:13,25 34:23
28:5 30:17 34:11 paper 27:21 16:6 34:24 39:6 45:13
43:19,25 50:16 pardon 49:5 Phillip 22:14 51:11 55:3,4
officer 9:6 10:16 part 12:17 17:5 photo 26:2,6 poor 39:2
43:4 36:5 particular 26:17 photograph 5:5 possession 20:17
39:6 13:13 photographs 12:5 14:13
25:3 oh 40:15 41:21 parts 18:12 36:14 17:5
53:19 people 6:5 12:3 physical 36:21 possibly 47:19
30:9 Okay 33:11 39:21,23 40:17 36:22 postconviction
37:13 41:16,22 42:8 49:24 pick 16:15 9:4 14:7 25:11
46:3,25 42:12 percent 11:6 picture 4:24,25 25:13 30:10
54:14 once 27:13 period 51:19 27:21 34:7 40:9,14
ones 19:24 52:23 perpetrator pictured 26:5,15 45:20,24,25
18:1 perpetrators 24:10 30:20 44:2,21
35:11 5:15 11:21 24:25 pivotal 45:21 precisely 23:6
7:8 23:5 36:10 32:14,25 49:16 37:11 prejudicial 4:20
38:24 3:15 5:5 51:12 perspective 25:21 19:12 55:17
43:22 55:6,7,8 56:9 29:24 30:13 point 6:14 14:5 presented 11:13
53:12 57:1 40:13 17:2 22:25 25:10 26:1
outlined 47:22 1:16 2:4,10 3:7 48:18 51:9 48:15
51:5 over-the-shou... 5:5,7 17:23 points 24:24 Present-day
55:16 P 55:5,9 56:3,7 6:12 9:20,25 31:2 37:14
page 2:2 17:13 Petitioner's 3:17 18:25 19:23 28:25
24:18 38:18 rear-window rejecting 4:10 56:7
provides 36:6,6 52:9 57:8 responded 8:25
47:12 46:14,16 52:8 57:9 relatively 7:5 1:18 2:7 4:17
29:22 put 3:22 29:23 15:13 33:8 relayed 24:22 19:15 25:19
37:5,24 30:13,20 31:17 35:12 46:8 relevant 3:16 55:16
47:21 32:13,20 33:22 49:4,5,6 18:19,24 19:21 Respondents
52:23 40:13 51:2 reasonably 13:2 20:6,9 11:5
33:8 34:3 reasoning 13:4 relief 34:7 36:5
46:8 Q REBUTTAL relies 56:3 response 56:1
question 7:25 2:8 54:7 relying 11:1 responsible
17:18,20 22:17 39:5 47:17 49:6
39:4 46:12 29:11 remarked 26:9 34:22
15:12 6:11 16:21 43:8,14 55:1 repeatedly reversal 13:5
40:1 questions 22:9 55:15 17:21 reversed 4:12
quick 25:8 54:11 redacting 53:23 38:20 43:4 reviewed 19:16
32:15 quite 8:14 12:21 referred 8:23 reports 18:21 56:23
38:3 54:22 18:12 40:17 20:10 reviewing 55:3
44:17,20 quote 9:8 56:25 referring 40:7 reproduced right 5:1 9:14
52:8 reflected 42:23 30:18 14:1 18:7
53:19 R 1:17 2:6 3:1 reflects 26:7 require 22:22,23 31:24 33:21
25:18 43:14 required 8:17 39:25 40:19
43:19,25 reach 7:18 8:22 10:14 requirement 45:17 46:18
read 52:16,18 11:24 13:1,13 13:23 56:18,19 49:15 50:12
real 57:5 19:7,20 22:7 37:23 51:20 robbers 49:24
really 7:13,25 25:1 45:7 reserve 22:11 14:21
16:18 29:21 31:4,15 regarding 6:2 respect 49:1 24:22
17:9 42:17 53:2 reject 35:1,4 56:25 ROBERTS 3:3
31:1 44:20 46:13 semipermanent silent 26:25 35:8,18,20,22
42:5 says 17:13 23:1 22:1 similar 36:22 35:25 38:5,7
50:8 26:24 28:10,19 sense 15:1 17:16 39:7 38:12,15,22
54:3,5 31:10 32:15,16 serious 52:21 simply 7:5,17,24 44:23 45:1,4
32:19,20 39:19 set 19:12 22:8 10:23 15:11,12 45:14 46:6,11
43:4 Scalia 21:10,12 52:14 ski 49:17 sounds 34:3
30:3,7 31:20 32:6 1:15 2:3,9 3:5 slightly 8:16 sown 23:24 24:1
34:8,13 40:25 41:5,8 3:6,8 5:3 6:13 small 19:21 space 34:1
35:2 41:11,13,16 7:2 8:8 10:1,8 25:23 30:5 spare 13:4
40:8,13 51:22,24 52:4 10:11,21 11:11 Smith 1:3 3:4 speaking 34:20
46:1 56:2 11:15 12:14 27:4,10,18 48:1
52:12 scarcely 56:8 14:2 15:8,21 28:6 32:1,5 specific 12:22
13:14,16 9:23 12:1 47:22 49:23 27:3 spend 11:5
48:8,9 13:16 14:1 51:1 54:5,7,9 snitch 48:10 spoken 12:21
49:13 19:2 30:1,6,8 54:22 55:14 sole 4:3 5:19 stand 37:3 38:8
52:12 Shelita 11:23,24 solely 3:18 10:14 standard 7:20
scrutinized 26:7 shooting 39:17 53:11 stands 32:11
12:3 13:25 28:17 39:20,24 shot 9:17 12:2 44:25 47:9 42:18 54:23
16:19 40:3,7 42:12 16:6,7,10 48:23 49:12 55:25
26:12,22 46:25 49:21,21 shots 16:19 50:5,9,18 statement 6:3
28:18 50:11 54:16,17 39:19 52:17 53:19 7:4 8:22,23 9:5
39:18 seeing 16:11 show 10:22 sort 52:9 9:6,7 10:13,15
49:16,16 55:5 showed 11:13 Sotomayor 11:23,24 13:14
seemingly 45:5 27:13 10:20,25 11:12 13:15 14:13,17
34:17 sees 16:7 8:17 18:7 20:19 22:14 30:1,17
39:21 selected 20:5 shown 26:8,17 21:6 22:6 24:4 30:18 31:5,13
41:24 36:16 27:25 26:3,20 27:2 32:12,24 34:9
42:1 selective 20:1 side 33:25 56:16 27:12 34:25 34:10,11 35:17
37:6 submitted 57:14 18:23 49:20,20 55:4 16:11,17 22:11
42:19 57:16 survivor 25:22 testify 9:3 25:15 34:12
47:21,22 subsequent suspect 16:13 testimonies 36:18 41:24,25
52:11 15:10 16:9 21:2,3,4 23:16 50:21 56:1
56:12 17:19 suspects 5:8 7:9 testimony 3:19 times 6:24 12:2
20:6 26:6 36:9,11 11:8,9 14:6 26:16
6:19,25 substance 56:6 36:14,21 24:13,14 30:10 today 5:11,18
sudden 24:15 system 13:22 32:2 34:6 25:10 39:8
8:3,20 29:11 42:19 37:13 45:21,24 53:22 54:24
11:17,18 suddenly 23:16 56:4,6,13 55:25
14:23 23:21 T Thank 3:8 25:14 told 3:20 13:18
15:1,2 sufficiency 7:22 T 2:1,1 25:16 54:3,4,9 26:21 32:24
18:3 sufficient 5:24 tacking 46:15 57:11,12 48:11
7:16 tainted 28:5 theoretically top 30:5
suggest 17:3 take 8:2 10:14 12:5 total 14:1
22:17 51:22 11:12 14:18 theory 15:6,10 touch 8:19
24:17 suggesting 5:7 32:22 38:8 15:18 22:18,19 Trackling 21:3
29:21,22 17:10 22:15 taken 13:16,17 46:19 Trackling's
30:1 56:16 31:10 37:14 thing 18:24 22:6 24:22
suggestion 5:2 52:14 24:13 36:17 transcript 34:7
51:8 takes 7:15 things 11:5,7,7 43:16 55:16,17
suggests 11:1 talking 11:17 31:18 33:25 55:21
16:12 32:23 48:7 49:10 transpired 9:9
39:5,9 summary 13:5 TEC-9 30:24 think 7:10,13 10:17
43:8,9 supplemental teeth 7:7 16:24 8:21 9:22 10:1 transposing
47:3,15 38:20 43:3 17:17 20:20,23 10:21,23 12:19 49:10
52:10,11 supply 28:11 21:7,15,25 13:7,12 14:23 traumatized 9:2
55:12 38:7 28:13 36:10,17 17:7,16,24 treated 30:16
support 17:19 36:18,20,20 19:16 20:3 trial 3:13,17,25
22:22 47:20 26:20 28:16 25:6 27:9 4:23 9:7 15:12
10:23 28:1,4 45:17 46:24 46:12,17 49:2 23:16 24:6,17
23:11 suppressed 4:15 47:10 54:17 50:21 51:12 25:7 27:24
17:20 18:5 telling 32:10 52:1,10 53:3,4 33:9 36:19
16:21 suppression tells 45:8 Third 56:14 55:13 56:22
surely 4:8 52:5 terms 12:19 20:24 21:1 true 7:2 9:11
40:2 20:12 37:3 48:20 work 20:8 40:12
53:9,22 unusual 16:14 55:17 worn 21:25 25 2:7
29:15 urged 48:6 way 14:20 27:23 56:9 259-60 33:1
39:9,12 urging 29:21 28:5 55:23,23 worry 50:11 296 17:13 18:12
43:20,20 useful 31:14 weapon 23:10 52:15
46:7,12 utterly 55:1 23:13,15 wouldn't 33:14 3
47:12 wear 50:1 33:23 37:15 3 2:4 55:8
51:19 V wearing 11:22 52:2 3/6/95 32:24
52:1,5 v 1:5 3:4,10 7:20 14:8,14 17:1,4 written 48:17,17 30 18:15
53:5,13 7:21 8:9,13,17 weeks 16:15 wrong 36:1 308 54:15
55:12 12:25 13:4 26:21 55:3 wrote 34:22 31st 42:25 43:17
14:1 value 6:1 we're 5:11,12 x 1:2,7 4
29:24 values 7:15 11:17 19:24 4 54:5
31:8,9 variation 11:16 34:19 37:2 Y 489 55:6
35:16,25 verdict 7:19 43:9 46:15 years 53:6 49 13:22
46:6 vetted 27:23 Whitley 7:20 8:9 Young 21:2 494 55:6
53:8 victim 53:23 wholesale 4:1 22:14 32:2
violated 57:7 10 19:4
21:5 6th 10:12 34:9
56:21 34:12 41:12
44:4,9,23 45:2 withholding 11 26:8
1:13 3:2 45:7 54:13,15
57:15 55:1
Virginia 7:21 witness 10:18
33:24 7
voluminous 137 9:9
38:8 7th 26:16
39:18 718 39:14 42:22
51:14 72 26:1,7
31:16,21 W 16 53:6
43:7 wait 41:18,18 191 27:7 8
13:18
waited 26:21 1911 19:6
37:24,24 8 1:9 26:18
83-page 19:11
21:21,24 11:18 22:7,8 1995 43:1,17
50:2,3 55:16 9
8:13 2nd 18:11
18:15
16:18 2011 1:9
words 48:16
27:2 33:6 wore 11:9 26:10 22nd 26:8,18
25:23
