IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JOHN D. ASHCROFT, :
Petitioner : No. 10-98
v. :
ABDULLAH AL-KIDD :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 2, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:18 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
NEAL KUMAR KATYAL, ESQ., Acting Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
LEE GELERNT, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
NEAL KUMAR KATYAL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
LEE GELERNT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 20
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
NEAL KUMAR KATYAL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 48
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:18 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next this morning in Case 10-98, Ashcroft v. Al-Kidd.
General Katyal.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GENERAL NEAL KUMAR KATYAL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
GENERAL KATYAL: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
This lawsuit seeks personal money damages
against a former Attorney General of the United States
for doing his job, allegedly with an improper motive,
yet the Attorney General, like the Federal prosecutor in
Idaho who sought the material witness warrant at issue
in this case, was performing the functions of his
office.
There are three reasons why the Petitioner
should not be personally liable for money damages. The
first is because the prosecutor's act of seeking the
material witness warrant is integrally associated with
the judicial process and entitled to absolute immunity.
To view it any other way is to expose both line
prosecutors and high officials to lawsuits by highly
incentivized litigants based on their purportedly bad
motives. That is something this Court has manifestly
resisted and for good reason, because improper motives
are easy to allege and hard to disprove. Allowing such
suits to proceed would result in burdensome litigation
and interfere with the ability of prosecutors to do
their jobs.
The second reason is that the Fourth
Amendment was not violated, and, therefore, qualified
immunity applied. There can be little doubt that the
statutory requirements of section 3144 were met in this
case, and, equally, there can be little doubt that the
subjective motivations of Attorney General Ashcroft or
the line prosecutor are thoroughly irrelevant to whether
a Fourth Amendment violation exists.
This Court has repeatedly rejected
subjectivity, explaining that otherwise time-consuming,
vexatious, burdensome, and, indeed, destabilizing
discovery and litigation would be the inexorable result.
And the third reason, and the easiest
reason, is that whatever one thinks the applicable law
is, what it -- it was manifestly not the law in 2003
when the warrant in this case was issued by a neutral
judge in Idaho.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I ask whether your
second reason doesn't boil down to saying that it makes
very little difference whether -- whether Ashcroft is -
is held immune by absolute immunity or by qualified
immunity?
GENERAL KATYAL: Oh, no, it -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Once -- once you say
that -- that motive is not introducible with regard to
the qualified immunity question, and once you say that
he's using a witness subpoena, and you can't look behind
it as to whether he was abusing it for some other
purpose, is there any difference between absolute and
qualified immunity?
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, I take it there may
be a difference. We think the Court should first decide
the absolute immunity question, which is the way that
this Court has historically handled questions when
there's an absolute immunity question and then a
qualified immunity.
I take it that the qualified immunity
question in this case is one about whether motivations
matter for the Fourth Amendment; whereas the motivation
question in the absolute immunity sense, as Respondents
see it, is -- is something broader. It's not limited to
the Fourth Amendment, per se. Their argument is if the
prosecutor is -- has bad motives essentially or a
certain bad motive, an investigatory or purposeful bad
motive to engage in preventive detention, that somehow
pierces the veil of absolute immunity. That is
something this Court has never accepted.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I thought the -- I
thought the argument, rather, was that this is not as
close to the core of the prosecutorial function as some
of the other functions to which we have given absolute
immunity, and since it's so dangerous, since there is
such potential for abuse, we shouldn't confer absolute
immunity on this particular conduct. But I don't
understand why if we agree with you on qualified
immunity, there is any difference whatever.
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Scalia, to be sure,
they are now making that argument in this Court, that
this doesn't fall -- this isn't intimately associated -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
GENERAL KATYAL: -- with the judicial
process. Below, of course, they said the reverse: That
material witness warrants were associated with the
judicial process and that the only difference is that -
that, here, they had a bad motive.
So I've talked about the bad motive point.
Now, with respect to whether this is intimately
associated with the judicial process, these are material
witness warrants being sought in connection with an
ongoing investigation by a prosecutor. It is
quintessentially a prosecutorial function to obtain
these warrants and has been for -- for hundreds of
years, and it's the exercise of the prosecutor's
professional judgment, which is something that this
Court has looked to.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was the prosecution already
pending when this -- when this warrant was issued?
GENERAL KATYAL: Yes, it was. The
indictment of Mr. Al-Hussayen was in February 2003. The
prosecutors learned in March that Mr. Al-Kidd was about
to board a plane and go off to Saudi Arabia for an
unspecified length of time. They then acted
immediately. They went to the court and said we need
this warrant to secure this testimony. That is, to me,
essentially what prosecutors do and protected by Imbler.
To see it any other way is to expose prosecutors to
lawsuits for -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was Mr. Al-Kidd -- was he
released after -- I understand he didn't testify at the
trial, and there was an acquittal, and then other
charges were dropped. Was Al-Kidd still in custody as a
material witness after the trial was over?
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Ginsburg, he was
in -- he was detained for only a period of 16 days total
in 2003. Is -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he was restrained
much longer -- for 15 months.
GENERAL KATYAL: He had travel restrictions
placed upon him until the trial was over and until the
government -- because after the resolution of
Mr. Al-Hussayen's case, which was acquittal on some
charges and a hung conviction -- a hung -- a hung
decision on others, the government thought about
retrying Mr. Al-Hussayen, took it very seriously, and 20
days after al-Hussayen's verdict by the jury, we reached
an agreement with them in writing that Mr. Al-Hussayen
would leave the country and -- and not come back, and in
exchange we weren't going to prosecute him any further.
And so, immediately -- I think quite soon after the jury
verdict, the -- the conditions placed on Mr. Al-Kidd
were lifted.
And I should say that the material witness
warrant statute laces into it a whole suite of
safeguards to prevent against -- as, Justice Scalia, you
pointed out -- the potential abuse for the -- for
material witnesses by prosecutors. I think Congress has
set up several different things to prevent that. The
first is, in order to get a material witness warrant,
the prosecutor needs to show both materiality and then
practicability.
The second is that there are strict limits
placed on the conditions of the -- on the ability of the
prosecutor to detain anyone. Section 3142 says that a
detention can only be allowed by a judge if, quote, "no
condition or combination of conditions will reasonably
assure the appearance of the individual."
And then there's a formal procedure where
they have a right to counsel, they have the right to
cross-examine witnesses, to -- to present evidence, to
proffer evidence at the hearing, and the like -- all to
show that they shouldn't continue to be detained.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, in light of these
restrictions, I would like to come back to the question
that I understood Justice Scalia to be asking. If the
Court were to hold that obtaining a material witness
warrant does not violate the Fourth Amendment where the
statutory requirements, and in particular establishing
materiality, are met, why would it be necessary for the
Court to decide whether there's absolute immunity when a
prosecutor seeks a material witness warrant?
GENERAL KATYAL: For two reasons. Number
one is I think that's the way this Court has
historically gone about it, probably for reasons of
constitutional avoidance, to not reach constitutional
questions if there's an absolute immunity question.
And the second is, here, you have a Ninth
Circuit decision, Justice Alito, that says that -- that
absolute immunity can be pierced by a prosecutor's bad
motive. That is something that infects not simply
material witness warrant cases but, indeed, virtually
any case. As we point out and as the dissent below
pointed out, that kind of argument could be run by any
defendant who says you didn't intend to actually indict
me, or, you didn't care about that, you really wanted to
flip me to get testimony against some higher-up. And to
allow defendants to make those kinds of arguments and to
expose line prosecutors and attorneys general to that
form of liability is an extremely damaging proposition.
The -- with respect to the Fourth Amendment
question about whether or not motive applies, I think
this Court has quite clearly said in Whren that motive
is not -- is not something that should be looked to,
that the subjective motivations of the prosecutor are
not -- are -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's after there is
probable cause to suspect that criminal activity has
occurred. And then you -- once you have probable cause,
they're not going to look behind probable cause.
But, here, the whole reason for using this
material witness statute is that there isn't probable
cause to believe that al-Kidd did anything. The
violation -- there was no violation of the law. So
Whren is different. It's a different case.
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Ginsburg, it's
certainly different in -- in that respect, but I do
think that difference doesn't matter, because I think
what Whren and Edmond and the cases were getting at is,
is there some objective, individualized determination by
a neutral judge? And, here, as I was saying earlier,
there is quite clearly that laced into the 3144 statute
itself; that is, the judge must find materiality and -
and impracticability of the testimony. And that is a
standard performing, I think, a long-standing government
function of making sure that testimony, important
testimony, is available at trial.
So it is not like a situation in which the
government, just on their mere say-so, can put the -
can detain someone on the basis of them saying, well, we
think this person has information. I think there are
strict standards placed on that, and, indeed, Federal
Rule -- Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure 46 adds
standards to it by saying that a prosecutor must report
to the judge every 10 days about anyone who is detained
and assure no more detention is necessary. So that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't see -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't see how that would
make any difference to the -- at least to the absolute
immunity question. You wouldn't assert that there is
absolute immunity if there's a statute such as this, but
there is not if there isn't. I mean, either this is
core prosecutorial function for which he can't be sued
or it isn't. So what difference does this statute make
as far -- as far as absolute immunity is concerned?
GENERAL KATYAL: Absolutely, Justice Scalia.
I was just answering Justice Ginsburg's question about
qualified immunity.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
GENERAL KATYAL: I imagine one point about
the statute might be that the statutes, going all the
way back to 1789, do reflect that this is a
prosecutorial function to the extent there is any doubt.
So, for example, the 1846 statute said that an
attorney -- excuse me, an attorney of the United States
must apply for a material witness warrant.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So for us to agree with you
on absolute immunity, we -- we would have to believe
that even if there were no such statute and if a
prosecutor simply detained somebody as a material
witness without any check of a -- of an independent
magistrate, he would be immune?
GENERAL KATYAL: I think that is correct,
that that is quintessentially what prosecutors do in the
exercise of trying to get a trial -- a trial going.
Now -
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose -- suppose that a
prosecutor reads the statute, there must be an affidavit
that says this witness is material. And there is
irrefutable evidence that the prosecutor said to
colleagues and others: I do not intend to try this
person, ever, no matter what; I just want to ask him
questions. In that case, has the statute been violated
because he is not material?
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, if the -- if the --
I'm not sure I totally follow -
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not saying it's this
case. I'm saying it's a hypothetical case.
GENERAL KATYAL: If the evidence shows that
the evidence is not material, then the statute is
violated.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the reason it is not
material is because the prosecutor has no intention
whatsoever of ever bringing this person as a witness in
any trial.
GENERAL KATYAL: I do think that that would
generally mean that materiality would be violated. I
could imagine -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
GENERAL KATYAL: -- some theoretical
construct -
JUSTICE BREYER: If materiality is violated,
does not then that -- that prosecutor -- since he had no
intention of bringing him to trial or of having him as a
witness at a trial, that prosecutor would not be immune?
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Breyer, let me -
let me -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- yes.
GENERAL KATYAL: -- just make sure that I
understand the contours of your hypothetical. I don't
think that subjective motivations of the prosecutor go
to materiality. So if -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, how does -- how does
it -
GENERAL KATYAL: Here's how I think it
works: So I think that Congress set up the objective
two-part test to decide whether or not an arrest warrant
would take place, which is materiality and
impracticability. Now, that isn't subjective; that is
simply, does the person have material information that
can be used that -- that's relevant to the trial.
Now, if the person has a -- the prosecutor
has a subjective intent that says I'm never going to use
this testimony, then I think that that doesn't -- that
will -- that will almost always reflect the fact that
materiality just objectively hasn't been met in a given
case, but theoretically I could imagine a circumstance
in which the prosecutor has that subjective intent but
yet is material.
With respect to that, Congress has a
different safeguard at the back end, in 3144, and that
is the language in 3144 that says a judge in the
detention hearing is to inquire as to whether or not the
detention is necessary, quote, "if there will be a
failure of justice" if the person is released.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you can't look behind
that, right? You can't look behind that? If the -- if
the judge has said it's material, that's the end of it;
you have absolute immunity, right?
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, I think that the -
the defense can litigate that and appeal that set of
issues, but I don't think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can appeal the -- the
judge's determination that -- that it's material?
GENERAL KATYAL: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then how can you have
absolute immunity?
GENERAL KATYAL: Well, they did, because
we're talking about -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, you mean at the time
it's issued?
GENERAL KATYAL: Exactly.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I see.
GENERAL KATYAL: At the time itself. But I
think that's an important point, Justice Scalia. With
respect to absolute immunity, this Court has often said
that it is the crucible of the trial process itself that
often is a safeguard against abuse.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what if you didn't
have -- again, what if you didn't have this prescribed
judicial process?
GENERAL KATYAL: I take it that the logic of
this Court's precedence is that absolute immunity would
still apply. And the reason for that is that absolute
immunity isn't some rule to just protect prosecutors
willy-nilly; it's to protect the public. And as this
Court said most recently unanimously in the Van de Kamp
case, that -- quoting Learned Hand -- that -- that there
is a cost to this. No doubt that certain individuals
will be harmed, but the cost of rooting out the bad
apples through damages lawsuits is far worse, that it
causes prosecutors to flinch in the performance of their
duties.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There is a difference
between calling a witness at trial and arresting a
person. How is it a part of the prosecutorial or the
trial function to arrest someone? Isn't what's
protected absolutely is your use of that person at
trial, not your arrest or detention of them?
GENERAL KATYAL: No, I do think it goes
quite a bit further than that. I think it -- and I
think Burns v. Reed -- and the relevant language is at
page 492 -- I think is -- is relevant because it says
that it's pretrial conduct, in order to secure the
testimony for trial or the like is -- is what is
protected as well, that it would be far too narrow to
just focus on the trial itself; and that would be the
contours of absolute immunity.
I think Justice Kennedy's opinion in Buckley
is also instructive in this regard, because what that
opinion says is that allowing only immunity for the
trial would just allow individuals to constantly replead
their allegations and focus only on the pretrial conduct
and be an end run around absolute immunity. And, again,
absolute immunity is important not for the prosecutor
for his own sake or her own sake, but because ultimately
that is what -- that causing -- damage liability will -
will make prosecutors flinch the performance of their
duties more generally.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You don't -- you don't
think there's a reason to make prosecutors flinch
against willy-nilly -- that's not what I'm -- I'm
claiming happened here, but if you take the point that
you're raising, then prosecutors can out of spite, out
of pure investigative reasoning, out of whatever motive
they have, just lock people up.
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Sotomayor -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And you're -- you're
basically saying -
GENERAL KATYAL: -- making prosecutors
flinch is -- is always a bad thing. What I'm referring
to is this Court's precedents that say damages liability
on prosecutors is the wrong way to go about it because
the costs are too high compared to the benefits, and
there are other ways of dealing with that -- from
professional discipline, as Malley v. Briggs and Imbler
said; to -- to -- to bar actions; to the crucible of the
trial process itself, which is a way of dealing with
that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, there are procedures
set forth in the statute, I'd say you would add, which
you think are not necessary, but are there in order to
make them flinch in a different -- in a different -
GENERAL KATYAL: That is precisely correct.
We don't think those are constitutionally compelled, but
we do think they provide a very important safeguard.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's your best authority
that at -- at common law or the common law tradition,
there is absolute immunity for witness -- for the
issuance of witness warrants?
GENERAL KATYAL: I don't think it's come up
with respect to public prosecutors, and so our argument
here, to the extent the Court reaches that question -
and, again, it wasn't -- it wasn't raised below in the
brief in opposition, but if the Court wanted to reach
that question, I think it would be that the argument
would derive the same way as the arguments in this
Court's post-Imbler cases, which is, as long as it is
intimately associated with the judicial function that
the prosecutor is doing, then absolute immunity should
extend to that context.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then a second question,
quite apart from immunity, just addressing the
substantive constitutional issues under the statute,
suppose that the prosecutor has probable cause to indict
and try the person for the crime. Suppose also that
there is good reason to show that he would be a material
witness as to another participant in the crime. Does
the government have any duty to proceed with the
indictment, or can they just hold the person as a
material witness without indicting?
GENERAL KATYAL: I do think that the
government -- I'm not sure if we have any policy with
respect to that, but I think that -- that we -- that at
least for Fourth Amendment purposes, there wouldn't be a
violation if the government held the person for
essentially a dual motive, and that is what I understand
they have now conceded at page 31 of their brief, which
is in dual motive cases, the government's action is
permissible.
If there are no other questions, I'll
reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Gelernt.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LEE GELERNT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. GELERNT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In Dunaway, this Court emphatically
reaffirmed the bedrock Fourth Amendment principle that a
criminal suspect may not be arrested, absent probable
cause to believe there has been a law violated. The
rule is fundamental to our traditions, is widely viewed
as a defining feature of our country, and has been
steadfastly protected by this Court for more than 2
centuries in both good and bad times.
The material witness statute represents a
dramatic departure to the rule, allowing the arrest of
uncharged, innocent, even cooperative people. If a
material witness arrest is constitutional, it can only
be because its purpose is to secure testimony and not to
preventively detain and investigate the witness himself.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you acknowledge that it
is then constitutional? Your -- your opening comments
make me think you don't even acknowledge that it's
constitutional then?
MR. GELERNT: Justice Scalia, we are not
pressing that argument. I would say that based on the
legal historian's brief there is a strong argument to be
made that it is not constitutional, with respect at
least to cooperative witnesses. The statute the Framers
enacted in 1789 would not allow the arrest of any
witness unless they came voluntarily before the
magistrate and refused to even promise to return. Not
even a surety or a -- a surety or a bond was allowed.
So we do think there is a strong argument, but we are
not pressing that argument.
Our argument is that it cannot be used for
ulterior purposes. And I just want to pick up, if I
can, with Justice Breyer's hypothetical that he posed to
the government, which is of course our hypothetical.
The government started out this case throughout the
lower courts and in the opening brief saying purpose is
wholly irrelevant. This is Whren, even though Whren is
probable cause to believe a law has been violated; this
is Whren, purpose is wholly irrelevant.
We posed a hypothetical which we actually
think is this case and is consistent with our factual
allegations, that the sole reason this arrest was made
was not to secure testimony but to preventively detain
and investigate someone for whom there was no probable
cause or violation of the law.
That is -- is a difficult situation I think
to reconcile with Whren, I think an impossible situation
to reconcile with Whren, or with the text or history of
this statute.
The government has now come back and trying
to have it both ways and saying, well, the statute
wouldn't naturally allow that. But if purpose is -- as
Justice Breyer pointed out, if purpose is truly
irrelevant why they want to make the arrest, the
government should have answered "that would be fine.
The only things we need to satisfy are the objective
components of materiality and impracticability."
JUSTICE ALITO: Is this a -- is this a
realistic hypothetical that you've posed? Now, in order
to detain someone under the material witness statute,
that person, potential witness, must have material
testimony, not just relevant testimony, material
testimony, testimony that would be of some importance in
the criminal prosecution. So your hypothetical is a
situation in which there is a witness and this witness
has important testimony that could be used in a pending
criminal case, and yet the prosecution has absolutely no
interest in calling that person as a witness.
How often is that going to arise?
MR. GELERNT: Well, Justice Alito, I -- I
think a few points, one is just as an initial matter.
The statute has not actually been interpreted to go
beyond relevance, in the way you're posing it.
Interestingly, earlier statutes actually said the
testimony needed to be necessary. And so, that's -
that's actually an important watering down.
But putting that aside for the moment, we
think that what -- it -- it did happen in this case, it
happened after 9-11, I think that goes to the crux of
our case here. We are not trying to fiddle with the use
of the material witness statute in the every day
context, and I think that's the point the Federal
prosecutor's brief is making.
What we are saying is simply that the
principle has to be that if you do encounter that
extreme case, this Court should not bless the situation
where it literally can be used as a preventive -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The problem, and
it's, I think, the problem that I think Whren
highlighted is that the -- the allegation can so readily
be made in every case under the material witness statute
is that this is one of those bad intent cases, and the
case has to proceed so that we can prove that.
One of the ways we prove that is by asking
everybody who is involved in the process. Why did you
do this? What was your intent? I mean, the whole
purpose of Whren is to make sure that kind of stuff
doesn't happen.
MR. GELERNT: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice, but
let me -- let me say that I think I -- I understand
Whren, I obviously don't want to tell the Court about
its own cases, but is that it was drawing a conceptual
line, that the first point about Whren, and I think the
fundamental point, was the conceptual point that as the
Whren court put it, only an undiscerning reader would
conflate cases in which there was probable cause of a
violation of the law with cases in which there wasn't.
So I think the Whren court is not saying we
wouldn't look at purpose. I think that's the teaching
of the special needs cases.
Now, to your practical question about why
would this be hard to allege? I actually think that
this is one of those unique situations which it would be
very difficult to allege. Take the government's cases,
for example, that they've cited, like Daniels and Betts,
the material witness cases, you have witnesses being
arrested, not showing up for trial. As the court of
appeals made clear in those cases, they were the main
witnesses, not showing up on the day of the trial or
right before trial.
It would be virtually impossible for those
witnesses to turn around and say the only reason I was
arrested was for investigative purposes. And I think
that on top of the fact that this statute is used very
rarely, I mean what we have pointed out is other than in
immigration cases, which the person is already subject
to custody, there are only a few hundred each year.
And again, I think what the Green brief is
saying by the Federal prosecutors is, look, the settled
understanding of this statute among line prosecutors has
always been, you use it to secure testimony. Maybe
there's a windfall in the back of your mind that this
person might be a suspect, but you certainly can't use
it where you have no intention of using the testimony.
I think then the limitations on this statute become
meaningless. I mean, take -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So every time the
prosecutor elects not to call one of these witnesses for
a variety of reasons, you would have a claim that this
wasn't designed to elicit testimony?
MR. GELERNT: No, no, we don't think so,
Mr. Chief Justice. I -- I think what we have -- we have
said is that calling the witness or not calling the
witness can't be determinative. I think one reason is
you wouldn't want to create a perverse incentive to have
prosecutors simply call the witness just to cover
themselves. So I think you would have to allege much
more, and I think that's what we have done.
I think there is an entire set of
allegations with respect to Mr. Al-Kidd, and they fit a
national pattern. And I would importantly say in the
questions presented, the government raised an Iqbal
claim as to plausibility only as to a small part of this
case which is no longer part of the case, which is, was
Mr. Ashcroft involved in the specific statements in this
specific affidavit.
They did not allege that the allegations of
a pretextual policy were implausible. So it is not
before this court, it is not a question presented, and I
think it is telling that the government didn't raise it.
They are sitting on all the information about what
happened after 9-11 as a policy matter, and they did not
claim it was implausible.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just a point of detail.
I -- I may not be recalling correctly. You said this
statute is rarely used. I thought there were 4,000
material witness hearings a year. Is that mostly
because of the immigration?
MR. GELERNT: Yes, Justice Kennedy, and I
apologize if I wasn't clear. That what the -- what the
court of appeals showed and what the statistics also
show is that roughly 92 percent of the cases are
immigration cases, where the person is already subject
to custody, and there wouldn't be any need to use it in
that pretextual way.
So what we're talking about is a few hundred
each year throughout the country, and again when it's
used properly, it's going to be virtually impossible to
allege something like this.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do we -- do we -- do we
have statistics for the States, how many States hold -
how many people are held under State material witness
statutes?
MR. GELERNT: We have -- we have looked for
those, Justice Kennedy. We have not been able to find
them. What we do know about the States, though is that
more than 30 of the States have statutes that are much
more restrictive than the Federal Government, because
what they do is they follow what the framers did in
1789, which is to say the witness has to be given an
opportunity to comply, and that's what the framers did.
You have to ask the witness if they will continue to
comply. If they won't -- or you have to make a showing
of why it's impossible to ask them.
So, I think in many States it won't be a
problem. I think actually, you know, the State issue is
an important one because what the Federal Government is
arguing here is, of course, well, our prosecutors are
very well supervised. Well, that -- that doesn't take
into account if there is a deliberate attempt to misuse
it.
But I also think what we're looking at are
States, local counties, cities where there may not be
the resources necessary to put checks on, and what the
government's asking is for this Court to hold that as
long as you can make the minimal showings of
impracticability and materiality, which don't even
require the evidence to be important or that the witness
be uncooperative, you then can have any purpose you
want. So you could have States, cities, local counties
saying every member of this gang or every member of this
business must know some information about the person
that's been indicted.
JUSTICE ALITO: Your argument is that the
Constitution does not allow a material witness to be
detained, so long as the witness says in court that he
or she will show up for trial, no matter how much
evidence there is that this person poses a great risk of
flight? If the person says in court, I will be there,
that's the end of it, the person cannot be detained?
MR. GELERNT: Do I think the Constitution
requires that?
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes.
MR. GELERNT: I think it probably does, but
we are not taking a position on that. I mean, what we
are basically saying is that it is out of whack
historically. It wasn't until the mid 1900s where that
could happen, where even if they said they would come
back, you could hold them. So I think it's out of whack
historically, and there may be a real constitutional
argument.
We are not pressing it. We are simply
saying that if it's used for its proper purpose, then we
are going to assume it's constitutionality, which the
Ninth Circuit did, but it can't be that it can be used
as a preventive detention. And I think any reasonable
official -- and I want to go to the qualified immunity
if I could -- would have seen that, because I think the
analysis would have been the following. You would have
pulled out Dunaway, and you would have seen that you
need probable cause to arrest someone, probable cause of
wrongdoing.
And you would have then said, well, we don't
have probable cause of wrongdoing, so you would have
pulled out Whren then, because Whren talked about
pretext. What Whren would have told you is do not
conflate cases in which there's probable cause of
wrongdoing with cases in which the court has granted an
exemption from the probable cause -
JUSTICE ALITO: You might turn out -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you were writing
a law review article, you might have done that. But
we're talking about an officer. I think the first thing
you would do is say, well, let me see these material
witness statute cases, and what would he have found?
MR. GELERNT: Well, I think what he would
have found, Your Honor, is that the Court has not
specifically -- I grant that it has not specifically
ruled on the Fourth Amendment, but what he would have
found in Barry and the other cases, is that the Court
repeatedly, repeatedly referred to statute as a means of
securing testimony.
So I think the reasonable official would
have said to themselves, well, it's clear under the
Fourth Amendment that I don't have probable cause, but
maybe the statute is allowing me to do it.
Now, first of all, it statute can't
authorize a Fourth Amendment violation. But putting
that aside, just a -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But, again, you're
talking about the officer, he reads the statute and then
doesn't say, well, but maybe the statute's
unconstitutional, so I need to do more research?
MR. GELERNT: Exactly, Your Honor. And I
think what the research would have been done, they would
have looked at Barry and all this Court's other cases
and would have specifically said it's to secure
testimony, and then I think a reasonable official would
have looked at the text of the statute, everything in
the text of the statute is about securing testimony,
including the deposition requirement, you must be
released if your deposition is taken, you must have a
deposition.
All of those things do not suggest -- if the
government's interests could be simply we want to hold
this person because for preventive detention reasons,
none of the statute would make sense. I think that a
reasonable official could not have turned to this
statute and said, yes, I'm looking at the statute, and
it seems like I can use it for whatever reason I want.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the eight -
eight judges taking the opposite position in the hearing
en banc below were just being unreasonable? It would
have been unreasonable for an officer making this
determination to agree with eight judges from the Ninth
Circuit?
MR. GELERNT: I think, Your Honor, the --
Mr. Chief Justice, the only way I can answer that is to
say this Court has -- has never made determinant of
whether there are dissents. I mean, take the Brogue in
this Court, two justices of this Court descended on
merits and yet you still found that the law was clearly
established.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What we said in
Wilson, I'm quoting, judges -- when judges disagree on a
constitutional question, it is unfair to subject public
employees to money damages for picking the losing side
of the controversy.
MR. GELERNT: I mean, but I think Brogue
goes the other way. Ultimately, all I can say,
Mr. Chief Justice, is I think that the -- the fact that
there were dissenters can't be dispositive, and
ultimately this -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I agree
with -- I agree with that, of course, but at the same
time, it does seem that you're imposing a very heavy
burden on the officers in this area when do you have a
situation where eight judges, when they conduct their
research, come out the other way. And that type of
burden is particularly heavy when you're talking about
if they guess wrong, it comes out of their pocket. And
if I'm the officer in that situation, I say, well, I'm
just not going to run the risk of, you know, having to
sell the house because I agreed with eight judges on the
Court of Appeals.
MR. GELERNT: Well, Your Honor, I think -
you know, of course, I'm not sure it will actually come
out of their pocket, but I get the crux of your point.
I do think ultimately, though, that this is a situation
where a reasonable official would have had to say to
themselves: I can use this as preventative detention.
Because I want to be very clear about our position and
how narrow it is.
We would concede, for purposes of this
argument, that if they wanted to use this for dual
motives, then there would have been a real question
there. If they said, look, we want the testimony,
that's what the statute talks about, but we also hope
that maybe something else will come out of it, that's a
closed question. But if they would have said to
themselves, which is all we're saying this case is
about, is: Look, we don't want this testimony. In
Justice Breyer's hypothetical, there's clear, objective
evidence. We don't want to use this testimony, perhaps
it's counterproductive in our case; we're not going to
use this testimony, but we would like to hold the
person. I think that is very difficult for a reasonable
official to say to themselves, this statute grants me
preventive detention powers.
I mean, I think you would be looking at a
statute going back to 1789 that this Court has
repeatedly commented on that is only about testimony.
You would be saying to yourself, this statute allows me
to engage in preventive detention even though Congress
has never passed a statute like that, Congress
specifically rejected preventive detention powers -
JUSTICE ALITO: You don't think that an
official reading all this Court's cases saying
subjective motivation is not proper in determining the
application of the Fourth Amendment would be able to
think that this would apply here, too? Subjective
motivation doesn't count here; what counts is whether
there's -- there are objective criteria that would
permit the detention?
MR. GELERNT: I don't think so, Justice
Alito, respectfully. I think when you pulled out Whren,
which, of course, is this Court's landmark decision on
pretext -- Whren could not have been clearer. The Court
specifically said only an undiscerning reader would
conflate the two. And I think the conceptual point
Whren was making is straightforward.
The Fourth Amendment says you need probable
cause or a violation of the law to arrest someone. If
the government wants to walk in and ask for an exemption
from that standard and says, the reason we want the
exemption is because of the purpose of the arrest, then
the Court in Whren said, well, then they must adhere to
the purpose. Otherwise, it's simply an end-run about
the probable cause.
I mean, consider two cases -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the Fourth Amendment
doesn't say you need probable cause. There are
situations where you can conduct a search without
probable cause. There's the Terry search. There's
administrative searches. There's a lot of exceptions.
MR. GELERNT: Yes, Justice Scalia, but I
think -- well, the Terry -- the Terry stops, I think we
put to one side, because as the Court in Terry said and
as this Court has interpreted Terry, those were because
those were not full-scale arrests and the
administrative -- sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Administrative searches,
automobile searches, you know.
MR. GELERNT: Absolutely, and those all fall
into the special needs category, and those were cases
you, Your Honor, in Whren distinguished as conceptually
different than when there's probable cause of a
violation of law, because what you yourself said in
Whren was: Look, the government is asking for an
exemption from the traditional Fourth Amendment standard
and they're saying the reason we want the exemption is
because of the purpose of our search.
You said, well, then, of course we're going
to hold the government to that purpose. They can't tell
us, look, we don't want to meet the Fourth Amendment
standard because of the purpose of what we're doing, but
then turn around and not adhere to the purpose.
And so if you had two cases, one where
there's probable cause of wrongdoing and another case
where there wasn't, the judge would say fine to the
first one and then he would say to you, well, the second
one, you don't have probable cause. The only thing the
government could say at that point was, well, that's
true, but we're not trying to investigate or prosecute
the person as in Dunaway. We have a different purpose.
Maybe it's administrative. Maybe it's to secure
testimony. Maybe it's a roadblock. Maybe it's
something else. And then if the Court said, well, fine,
then go ahead and do that search on less than probable
cause, if that's your purpose, you couldn't turn around
then and not -- and then not adhere to that purpose. I
mean, I think that's what we're talking about, is
that -
JUSTICE ALITO: You seem to acknowledge that
in -- a dual motive case would not violate the Fourth
Amendment, or wouldn't necessarily violate the Fourth
Amendment; isn't that right?
MR. GELERNT: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that a
reasonable official would appreciate, well, it's okay
for me to have a dual motive, but I have to stop and
think: Is my interest in investigating this individual
further the but-for cause of my desire to get a material
witness warrant? Do you think that was apparent?
MR. GELERNT: I think it actually is, Your
Honor, and the reason is because I think it's -- I think
it actually gives cushion to the reasonable official,
because I think once you are saying we want to secure
testimony, it might be very difficult, as the Chief
Justice was pointing out, to say, well, how I do know if
I could have ulterior motives or not? That might be a
very difficult situation.
But I think a reasonable official -- this
Court's proposition that this Court would have to -
would have to bless, based on the allegations here are,
the official said, look, we think we can show
materiality and practicability because Mr. Al-Kidd is
taking a trip, he is being cooperative, but he is taking
a trip and he works for the same charity. We do not
want the testimony. We can't use the testimony in this
trial. The only reason we want to do it is to hold him,
and we don't have probable cause of a violation of the
law. I think any reasonable official would have
understood that as preventive detention, and there -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure why that just
can't be resolved under the issue of materiality. The
magistrate asks the prosecutor why he wants to do this,
and he infers from what the prosecutor said that -- just
what you say. Then it's not material. It's not a case.
MR. GELERNT: That goes to the crux of, I
think, what is going on here. We have said that both
the Fourth Amendment and the materiality as well as
other parts of the statute would deal with it precisely.
The government's opening brief and throughout the lower
courts said, no, it doesn't matter if you're going to
use the testimony or not or we have any intention.
We posed that hypothetical in our brief.
The government came back and said, well, maybe that
could be done with materiality. If the government was
going to stick to their position, their conceptual
position, they would have come back and said, look, the
objective components of materiality and of
practicability have been satisfied, because he's taking
a trip and he worked for the same charity, and who cares
whether -- so if the Court is prepared to put a limit
on, you have to use this for its stated purpose,
testimony, that's all we're asking for. I mean, the
case has changed now because of the concession that the
government's made on pages bottom of 15, top of 16,
where they're now saying, yeah, that is a tough
situation, and maybe we can deal with that through the
statute. But that's all we're saying.
The Ninth Circuit understood this as a sole
motive case. The government understood it in their cert
petition and in their brief to this Court as a sole
motive case. We have said we think the analytical test
is a but-for, but we're prepared to go with sole motive,
and our allegations, our factual allegations, are
consistent. In the proposition, we are simply saying,
we don't think this Court can bless it. You satisfy
practicability in some objective way; you don't care
whether you're going to use the testimony, you may have
no use for it, but it's an end-run around locking people
up.
JUSTICE ALITO: Where did you allege that
the desire to detain was the sole motive for this?
MR. GELERNT: Your Honor, I think that the
clearest allegations are at 111 and 112 and 154 of our
complaint, in the joint appendix. What we said is it
was not to secure testimony. And I think the Ninth
Circuit certainly understood it that way at pages -- I
apologize -- 25A and 40A of the opinion. And the
government, in its cert petition and its brief,
understood it that way in saying, we don't know how the
Ninth Circuit would deal with a mixed motive case,
clearly suggesting that the Ninth Circuit was a sole
motive case; and so again, all we are saying is it
cannot be that this statute be transformed into a
preventive detention statute, and I think particularly
so because the government after 9-11 specifically -- as
the green brief notes -- specifically asked Congress for
preventive detention power, and that power was denied.
What they granted was a very limited 7-day hold only for
noncitizens.
And so I think what we're talking about in
many respects -- at a macro level is a separation of
powers case as much as a Fourth Amendment. I think it's
not -- it's not dissimilar to the dialogue this Court
has been having in the Guantanamo cases with, look, you
need to go beyond the Fourth Amendment; if you think you
need such a fundamental change to our country's
traditions, Congress is going to have to take the first
step, we'll look at it and there will be a back and
forth.
But here what happened was the preventive
detention powers were denied and yet the government
still went ahead and used the material witness statute.
And again, I can't stress enough that the government did
not raise an Iqbal claim as to the plausibility of these
allegations. Only now in the reply brief where they're
-- they're trying to address a sole motive situation, or
a but-for, which is all we're asking this Court to
address, the government has now said the allegations are
implausible.
I think that in many situations -- you know,
with the absolute immunity point, if I could just turn
to that for a second -- the history, as you said,
Justice Kennedy, the government has conceded they don't
have a case on their side. We have plenty of cases in
which, as the historians' brief points out, and as our
brief points out, in which there was not immunity for
the arrest of a -- for the arrest of a witness, which is
very different than calling a witness, Justice
Sotomayor.
And what we are talking about here also is
the government's burden. So I don't think that's
something we could have -- we could have waived,
especially since the Ninth Circuit addressed it and put
the government on notice that the government came
forward with no historical evidence; and it's not
inconsistent with warrants generally.
As this Court made clear in Malley, it
surveyed the history of arrest warrants and said, look,
arrest warrants, there's no history; we're not going to
grant absolute immunity for arrest warrants. In Burns,
Justice Scalia pointed out that there is no history with
respect to search warrants, and I think the history with
respect to material witness warrants is even clearer.
So what we're talking about is no history; we're talking
about a fairly ancillary and rarely used process to the
criminal justice system, and one we're talking about
where there's sort of a unique confluence of factors
where you have someone who is not the defendant in the
trial, who is a third party, and their liberty is being
deprived; and it's the type of statute that can be
abused. I mean, I think the government's whole point is
it's a dual -- it's a dual motive type statute; and so
that because it can be inherently abused, there has to
be some checks on it.
And this Court has never said that you would
have absolute immunity for all prosecutors in all cases.
We are certainly not raising a motive case with respect
to absolute immunity. What we are simply applying is
the Court's test in absolute immunity, which is the
functional approach, you have to make that threshold
determination about whether something is investigative
or not; and I think that's the teaching of Buckley.
Take two witness interviews. They're the same act, but
the prosecutor clearly can be engaged in interviews for
different reasons.
In Buckley, it happened to be on those facts
the Court believed it was investigative, based on the
allegations in the complaint. But what if it were 2
days before the presentment to the grand jury? It's
likely the prosecutor would have assumed he had probable
cause at that point and was prepping the witnesses.
Those are two acts, but you have to look
behind them. I think there's no way around looking
behind. The alternative, the flip side of what the
government's asking, is: rigidly categorize every
single act a prosecutor may undertake in this country
and say it's either wholly investigatory or wholly
prosecutorial. And I think that's a very difficult
test.
I think there's no reason why district
courts can't make an initial determination. I think
here in particular, Judge -- was in a unique position to
make the determination. He sat at the underlying trial
of Al-Hussayen, so he knew what testimony and what was
going on. He -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're -- you're going way
beyond what I thought you were arguing. You're saying
you always have to make that determination of good
faith, right? In -- in all cases, including when the
prosecution is -- is accused of -- of bringing a
prosecution purely for harassment purposes?
MR. GELERNT: No, Your Honor. And I -- I --
Justice Scalia, I apologize if my argument was going
beyond.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what I thought you
were saying.
MR. GELERNT: I think what's going on here
is there's a unique set of factors with respect to
material witness, not the least of which is the history
with respect to both material witness arrests and
warrants generally, and I think there's been no
counter-history by the government. I think back -
JUSTICE ALITO: We're dealing here with a
Bivens action?
MR. GELERNT: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Under what theory is the
history of immunity at some point in the 19th century
relevant to the scope of the immunity that should be
available in a -- in a Bivens action? What's the theory
for that?
MR. GELERNT: Well, Your Honor, I think -- I
don't know that I have an independent first principles
theory. I think this Court has said repeatedly that you
will keep the immunities coterminous and you will look
to the history in both cases. So that's the Butz case.
JUSTICE ALITO: Does that make any sense? I
can understand it with respect to 1983, on the theory
that when Congress passed the predecessor of that
statute it implicitly intended to adopt the immunities
that were available at the time; but when this Court
invented the Bivens claim -- in when -- 1971 or
whatever -- that the Court -- the Court was -- committed
itself to recognizing only those immunities that were
available at the time when 1983 was adopted?
MR. GELERNT: I think, you know, part of
what the Court's answer is, it's a practical concern.
That it's just too difficult to have different
immunities, and the Court -- so the Court has repeatedly
reaffirmed that, and I think from a policy standpoint, a
practical standpoint, it's felt that that's the right
analysis, and there has to be some way to tether the
immunity analysis; and history is ultimately, I think -
what the Court has said it's a necessary though not
sufficient, and that once you sort of unmoor it from
history, it becomes very difficult to keep the two.
So I think what we're talking about here is
a -- a statute that had enormous consequences. It's
third parties who have been cooperative, even, who have
done nothing wrong, that end up in jail, and to say that
there is going to be absolute immunity is very
dangerous. This Court has repeatedly said that the
thumb has to be on the scale against absolute immunity.
That's an extraordinary protection, and if there's
anywhere where there needs to not be complete
insulation, it would be where you have third parties,
and -- who are going to jail.
The only other case, prosecutorial immunity
case this Court has had where it was a third party and
not the actual defendant was Mitchell, and the Court
denied absolute immunity.
All the other cases, some of which you have
denied absolute immunity, some of which you have
granted, it's been the defendant in the full judicial
process. Here we're talking about third parties after
9-11 who repeatedly went to jail. I think the
allegations are very clear that it's at least but-for -
we think sole -- but certainly far more than dual
motive. People were held -- half the people were held
more than 30 days, even though the statutory presumption
is 10 days. Many people were held for months. They
were arrested at gunpoint. They were not immunized;
half the people were not called to testify.
It went on in cities all over the country,
people being held under horrendous conditions for long
periods of time, interrogated about their own
activities.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General, you have 10 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GENERAL NEAL KUMAR KATYAL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
GENERAL KATYAL: Thank you. This is a
simple case. It's not about Guantanamo, it's not about
separation of powers, it's about one simple thing:
should we allow damages actions against an Attorney
General of the United States and ultimately AUSAs for
doing their job, when they're alleged to have a bad
motive?
If I could start with the Chief Justice's
point about the cost of these lawsuits and allowing them
to proceed. My friend on the other side says, well, but
this will be a small, rare case, an isolated example,
but I don't think that's true. I think if you allow
their motivation argument to -- to -- to pierce absolute
immunity, you will have this in every case or near every
case. 95 to 96 percent of Federal cases are resolved by
plea agreements. So there isn't someone who is actually
called at trial. You could allege it in any of those
cases.
And particularly when you lace on to that
what my friend has said is a disturbing, quote,
"national pattern of abuse" of the material witness
statute, something which we --with which we vigorously
disagree, but if you could add the fact that someone
wasn't called on in a trial to that national pattern,
then you'll be having these damages actions quite a bit
of the time. Now he says don't worry, it will only be a
few hundred of these lawsuits. Well, leaving apart the
fact that that excludes immigration cases and excludes
the States' cases, as Justice Kennedy said, a few
hundred lawsuits just at the Federal level filed against
the Attorney General?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Katyal, there are
some elements of this picture that are very disturbing,
and we are talking about the Attorney General and the
Attorney General's immunity. But there are allegations
here that this man was kept awake, the lights shining in
his cell for 24 hours, kept without clothes. Now that
doesn't sound like the way one would treat someone whose
testimony you want. Is there a remedy that he has for
that obvious mistreatment?
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Ginsburg, with
respect to that whole set of questions, conditions of
confinement, that isn't before the Court right now.
What is before the Court is -- is exclusively Fourth
Amendment concerns. Now, Mr. Al-Kidd did sue other
people, including the warden who was responsible for
that, and I think that there have been other ancillary
litigation with -- with respect to that, but to hold
either the Attorney General or prosecutors liable is
something that would, I think, ultimately open the door
to, at least there are a few hundred lawsuits at the
Federal level if not more.
JUSTICE BREYER: I would like to go back to
the statute. If an officer fills out an affidavit for a
search and says there were drugs in the house, so I want
to search it, and it turns out he was lying, you would
have a damages action?
GENERAL KATYAL: The officer -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, yes.
GENERAL KATYAL: -- you have -- you
potentially have a damages against the officer, not
against the prosecutor?
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I'm saying the
officer, because he told a lie.
GENERAL KATYAL: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now here it
says that the person filling out the affidavit has to
say he is a material witness. So suppose that the
plaintiffs were to prove that the individual who signed
that was not telling the truth in saying he is a
material instant -- witness because not just but for,
but there was no possibility he would call this
individual, none. And that's what they have to prove.
It's really very hard burden of proof.
Now, one, would that interfere significantly
with law enforcement? And, two, how do you distinguish
it from the drug case?
GENERAL KATYAL: Justice Breyer, I'm not
sure if your hypothetical has it as the prosecutor who
is filing the affidavit and lying or the agent. If it
is the agent, I don't think that is something as to
which absolute immunity, that's Malley v. Briggs and a
whole line of cases. Qualified immunity, of course,
would, and indeed those claims are pending in this -
JUSTICE BREYER: But in the case of the
agent, you're prepared to say that we will allow the
plaintiff to go into his motive to the extent that the
plaintiff can show there is no possibility he intended
to call this individual?
GENERAL KATYAL: I think that at least for
purposes -- I would say there is at least no absolute
immunity prohibition against that. There may be -- may
be relevant under other lines of authority.
But with respect to my friend's point about
your hypothetical in which he said that there -- you
know, the government isn't sticking to its position or
something like that, I just want to be clear. Our
position is for the Fourth Amendment, it doesn't look to
subjective motivations at all. That's Whren and Brigham
City and the like, but the statute in 3144 does have
safeguards, prophylactic safeguards to guard against the
type of abuse that I think several justices have
mentioned today. So that you could only detain someone
so long as their release wouldn't result in a failure of
justice and the like.
My friend also said that -- that there's no
historical precedent for this. I would urge the Court
to look at the 1846 statute, which didn't require
failure to comply before a witness was brought in on a
material witness warrant and it didn't -- and it had
sureties in it. I don't think what the government is
doing here is any different.
Maybe I'll just make one final point,
picking up on what Justice Alito said about the
allegations in this very case, because I don't think if
you look at the complaint that the allegations in this
case prove either that the Attorney General or the line
AUSA had a single motive. This is fleshed out at pages
17 to 19 of our reply brief. At best, they're
consistent with their newly minted standard, a dual
motive standard.
And given that, I think that the complaint
would fall on their own terms, and indeed that law -
that line that they're proposing, a but-for causation
line, would be extremely difficult to apply in practice
and would ultimately lead to lawsuits filed against
attorneys general and line prosecutors alike.
If there are no further questions -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:14 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
53:13 37:3,17 allowed 9:4 apples 16:25 42:3 44:11
37:12 17:20 21:7 applied 4:8 associated 3:20
9:19,25 adopt 46:5 31:12 48:15 applies 10:15 6:14,18,23
12:3,5,9 adopted 46:10 allows 34:24 apply 12:20 19:18
15:18 affidavit 13:7 alternative 44:10 16:18 35:7 53:6 assume 30:5
27:2 50:10,23 Al-Hussayen 7:9 applying 43:19 assumed 44:6
51:11 8:9,11 44:20 appreciate 38:1 assure 9:6 11:24
42:7 agent 51:11,12 Al-Hussayen's approach 43:21 attempt 28:21
51:17 8:6,10 Arabia 7:11 attorney 3:11,13
agree 6:10 12:21 Al-Kidd 1:6 3:4 area 33:13 4:11 12:19,19
51:13,22 32:16 33:10,11 7:10,18,21 8:15 arguing 28:19 48:10 49:12,15
17:7 agreement 8:11 38:18 50:1 argument 1:12 52:23
36:15 agreements Amendment 4:7 2:2,5,8 3:3,6 attorneys 10:12
49:2 52:8 ahead 37:15 9:16 10:14 20:9 10:7 19:11,15 AUSA 52:24
37:20 37:25 40:16 analysis 30:10 arrest 14:21 17:6 available 11:15
allegation 24:11 ancillary 43:6 35:19,22 42:13 awake 49:17
38:16 40:9 46:12 arrested 20:25 B
42:1,4 answered 23:1 25:13,19 47:22 back 8:12 9:13
50:13
47:17 answering 12:11 arresting 17:4 12:16 15:10
52:21,22 apart 19:22 49:8 arrests 36:11 22:21 26:3
49:6
26:18 40:23 45:4 article 30:23 39:14,17 41:19
40:16 apparent 38:5 Ashcroft 1:3 3:4 45:13 50:9
appeal 15:20,22 4:11,25 27:1 bad 3:24 5:23,24
16:24
21:5 42:1,11,12 43:18 46:1 47:8 charity 38:20 comes 33:17
48:12 52:25 47:9 48:8,17,20 39:20 commented
44:3 broader 5:21 24:13,23 25:2,3 26:8,13 30:22 compelled 19:4
33:5 25:22 27:18,19 32:25 33:7,10 44:4 52:22 53:3
3:7 burden 33:13,16 41:15 42:10 32:17 40:4,22 components 23:3
48:6 42:17 51:5 43:17 44:25 41:1,2 42:19 39:18
21:1 22:9 4:16 48:21,24 49:9 15:6 conceded 20:12
44:23 10:23 11:1 27:9 41:25 46:7 36:17
C 19:24 21:1 22:9 claiming 18:7 concern 46:12
51:20 30:20 31:11 31:10 34:3,14 concession 39:24
48:23 49:5 36:18 37:5,8,16 52:3 conditions 8:15
14:3,6,10 case 3:4,15 4:10 century 45:18 41:2 43:25 confer 6:8
22:24 4:21 5:18 8:6 cert 40:5,24 close 6:5 confinement
10:6 11:3 13:12 certain 5:24 closed 34:11 49:24
13:17,17 15:6 16:23 clothes 49:18 conflate 25:2
23:13,24 24:1,7 26:4 40:22 combination 9:5 confluence 43:8
22:7 24:4 26:25 34:12,16 change 41:17 19:10 22:21 14:20 15:9
39:10,13 37:5,21 39:5,24 changed 39:24 29:24 33:15,23 34:25 35:1 41:7
41:7 40:5,7 41:1,3 charges 7:21 8:7 34:10 39:17 41:18 46:4
42:10
21:3 27:23 9:9 32:4 46:13,21 53:6
53:1 counts 35:8 crux 23:25 33:24 descended 32:22 discipline 18:20
35:13 36:24 custody 7:21 destabilizing disprove 4:2
19:23 court 1:1,12 3:9 detail 27:10 dissenters 33:8
3:25 4:14 5:12 D detain 9:3 11:18 dissents 32:21
33:2 5:14 6:2,13 7:5 D 1:3 3:1 21:11 22:14 dissimilar 41:14
10:16 16:10,21 damages 3:10,18 detained 7:24 distinguished
20:23 21:4 24:7 33:3 48:10 49:6 12:24 29:12,16 district 44:16
29:15 30:19 dangerous 6:7 15:13 17:8 30:7 doing 3:12 19:19
32:22 33:21 Daniels 25:11 35:2,10 38:25 52:18
36:9,10 37:14 days 7:24 8:10 determinant doubt 4:8,10
38:19 44:3 45:24 46:6 deal 39:9 40:2 32:16 43:22 dropped 7:21
46:8,8,14,14 41:1 44:17,19,24 drug 51:8
Court's 16:17 decision 8:8 10:2 difference 4:25 53:1
38:15 43:20 43:9 47:10,14 17:3 duties 17:2 18:3
crime 19:25 20:2 defining 21:3 37:11 42:14 E
11:21 20:25 denied 41:8,22 52:18 earlier 11:9
33:14,20 49:25 filling 50:23 17:6 19:18 General's 49:16
52:23 exemption 30:20 final 52:19 functions 3:15 Ginsburg 7:18
explaining 4:15 30:24 31:13 further 8:13 given 6:6 15:5
extraordinary flinch 17:1 18:2,5 Gelernt 1:18 2:6 41:16 50:9
extreme 24:7 flip 10:10 44:10 21:16 23:16 goes 17:9 23:25
53:6 follow 13:15 27:15 28:5 going 8:13 10:23
40:9 found 31:1,3,6 general 1:15 3:5 45:4,8 47:1,7
20:11 52:10,15 Fourth 4:6,13 4:11 5:3,11 21:5 44:24
faith 44:25 10:14 20:9,24 8:3 9:21 10:12 8:8 11:13,17
29:4 17:15 47:18 41:13,16 49:25 15:19,24 16:2,6 28:18 35:20
34:15 feature 21:3 52:4 16:8,16 17:9 36:20,25 37:9
February 7:9 framers 21:20 18:11,14 19:3 39:14,15 40:5
11:20,21 24:3 friend 48:16 49:1 48:4,5,7,11 41:24 42:4,9,20
48:17 48:21 49:11 friend's 51:25 50:5,14,16,21 52:2,17
25:10 historical 42:21 25:22 27:14,19 including 32:2 interests 32:6
32:6 39:10 52:13 49:9 44:25 50:2 interfere 4:4
42:17 historically 5:14 immune 5:1 13:1 inconsistent 51:6
44:11 9:23 29:23 30:1 14:9 42:22 interpreted
47:14 46:1,18,21 4:8 5:1,2,6,10 indicted 29:9 interviews 43:24
48:8 41:9 50:4 15:18 16:1,10 38:3 50:25 51:4 invented 46:7
40:18 45:3 42:7,12 43:1,17 individuals 16:23 investigating
29:24 house 33:20 immunized 47:22 11:19 14:24 43:22 44:3
27:8 hundred 25:23 27:9 42:5 inherently 43:14 5:24 44:13
44:2 27:22 49:8,11 implicitly 46:5 initial 23:17 involved 24:16
hung 8:7,7,7 16:9 17:24 19:5 inquire 15:12 41:25
32:13 23:10 34:14 26:22 integrally 3:20 isolated 48:17
47:19,19 I 28:15 intent 15:2,7 issued 4:21 7:7
Idaho 3:14 4:22 impracticability 24:13,17 16:5
18:20 4:1 38:3 J
justices 32:22 law 4:19,20 11:2 little 4:8,10,25 6:18,23 7:22
37:6 52:8 19:7,7 21:1 local 28:24 29:6 8:17,21,23 9:15
Justice's 48:14 22:9,16 25:3 lock 18:10 9:20 10:5,25
K 35:19 36:19 logic 16:16 13:13,19,22
16:15 6:12,16 7:8,23 7:17 16:25 longer 8:2 26:25 24:2,12 25:12
47:14 8:3 9:21 11:4 48:15 49:8,11 long-standing 27:13 28:3
5:4 6:3,12 14:4,10,13,19 learned 7:10 15:15,16 25:5 43:4 45:10,11
7:6,18,23 15:19,24 16:2,6 16:22 25:25 34:8,13 49:2 50:24 51:2
9:12,14 16:8,16 17:9 leave 8:12 36:20 37:1 52:16
11:4,25 18:11,14 19:3 leaving 49:8 38:17 39:17 materiality 8:24
19:10 20:6 48:5 LEE 1:18 2:6 41:15,19 42:24 9:18 11:11 14:1
13:6 48:7 49:13,22 20:19 44:8 45:25 52:4 14:6,16,22 15:5
14:3,6 50:14,16,21 legal 21:18 52:14,22 23:3 29:3 38:18
51:9,21 length 7:12 looked 7:5 10:17 39:2,8,15,18
keep 45:25 46:21 level 41:12 49:11 28:5 31:22,25 matter 1:11 5:19
Kennedy 19:6,21 50:8 looking 28:23 11:6 13:11
18:4,11 27:10,15 28:1,6 liability 10:13 32:10 34:21 23:17 27:8
19:6 39:1 42:9 49:10 18:1,16 44:9 29:13 39:11
20:17,21 Kennedy's 17:18 liable 3:18 50:5 losing 33:3 53:13
22:4 kept 49:17,18 liberty 43:10 lot 36:6 mean 12:6 14:1
23:4,16 kind 10:7 24:18 lie 50:20 lower 22:7 39:10 16:4 24:17
26:8,13 kinds 10:11 lifted 8:16 lying 50:12 51:11 25:21 26:7
28:1,6 knew 44:20 light 9:12 29:21 32:21
30:21 know 28:7,17 lights 49:17 M 33:5 34:21 36:1
31:16 29:8 33:19,23 limit 39:21 macro 41:12 37:18 39:23
36:14 38:11 limitations 26:6 magistrate 13:1 43:12
34:14 40:25 42:6 limited 5:21 41:9 21:23 39:3 meaningless
36:2,7 45:23 46:11 limits 9:1 main 25:14 26:7
37:20,25 52:2 line 3:22 4:12 making 6:13 means 31:7
39:1 KUMAR 1:15 10:12 24:24 11:14 18:14 meet 37:1
42:9,14 2:3,9 3:6 48:5 26:1 51:14 24:4 32:15 member 29:7,7
44:22 52:23 53:5,6,8 35:17 mentioned 52:9
lines 51:24 mere 11:17
48:3 49:10 literally 24:8 merits 32:23
50:9 litigants 3:24 met 4:9 9:18 15:5
31:19 35:18 once 5:4,4,6 percent 27:18 plenty 42:10
never 6:2 15:2 22:7 39:10 period 7:24 35:16 37:9 42:7
48:19 newly 53:1 28:12 permit 35:10 pointed 8:20 10:7
10:18 32:16 40:4,21 opposition 19:14 13:11,23 14:24 43:2
52:5 41:1,2 42:19 oral 1:11 2:2,5 15:1,14 17:5,7 pointing 38:11
6:20,21 41:10 order 8:23 17:13 23:7,14 25:22 42:11,12
18:9 notes 41:7 19:1 23:5 26:4 27:19 29:8 policy 20:7 27:4
37:21 notice 42:20 29:14,15,16 27:8 46:15
40:5,7,8 Number 9:21 P 32:7 34:18 posed 22:4,11
41:1,3 P 3:1 37:11 50:23 23:5 39:13
43:13,18 O page 2:2 17:12 personal 3:10 poses 29:14
48:13 O 2:1 3:1 20:12 personally 3:18 posing 23:19
52:24 objective 11:8 pages 39:25 perverse 26:16 position 29:21
14:20 23:2 40:22 52:24 petition 40:6,24 32:13 34:3
34:7 38:12 39:18 40:12 26:25 46:11 2:4,10 3:7,17 52:2,4
obviously 24:22 33:16 41:5 picture 49:14 potential 6:8
office 3:16 parties 46:24 pierced 10:3 potentially 50:17
48:5 33:18 50:10,14 party 43:10 47:9 placed 8:4,15 9:2 35:2 41:13,22
official 30:8 31:9 49:2,5
38:18 probable 10:21 8:24 9:3,20 37:16,17 39:22 rarely 25:21
40:12 10:22,23,25 10:18 11:22 purposeful 5:24 27:12 43:6
22:9,15 25:2 14:7,9,15 15:1 22:3 25:19 34:5 reached 8:10
35:18,25 36:3,5 39:3,4 43:25 28:25 36:9 35:15
probably 9:23 prosecutorial 6:5 31:14 reads 13:7 31:17
problem 24:9,10 17:5 44:14 47:8 46:15
procedure 9:7 4:4 7:10,15,16 qualified 4:7 5:1 realistic 23:5
51:17 procedures 16:19 17:1 18:2 6:10 12:12 30:8 reason 4:1,6,18
6:17,19,23 prosecutor's 12:11 19:12,15 32:11 35:21
24:16 43:6 24:4 33:2 34:7,11 44:16
30:3 professional 7:4 protected 7:15 9:25 13:12 31:9,24 32:9
proffer 9:10 protection 47:4 49:23 53:9 38:14,24
promise 21:23 50:25 51:4 7:1 13:3 reasoning 18:9
proper 30:4 35:5 provide 19:5 11:10 17:10 9:21,23 26:10
proposing 53:5 35:12 quoting 16:22 recalling 27:11
30:7 32:7 10:13 38:15 purely 45:2 reconcile 22:18
35:2 40:10 purportedly 3:24 22:19
41:5,8,21 prosecute 8:13 purpose 5:9 Reed 17:11
22:14 prosecution 7:6 22:23,24 24:18 referring 18:15
prosecutor 3:13 35:22,24 36:23 15:4
Respondent 1:19 satisfied 39:19 22:14 26:2 52:24
32:3 5:20 Saudi 7:11 securing 31:8 22:17,18 23:11
23:8 restrictions 8:3 13:17 18:13 11:25 12:2 16:7 40:2 42:2
51:24 9:13 22:7,22 24:5 30:25 situations 25:9
34:23 retrying 8:9 40:1,3,10,25 sell 33:20 sole 22:13 40:4,6
46:14 return 21:23 41:3 44:23 45:7 sense 5:20 32:8 40:8,17 41:2
reverse 6:17 50:19 51:1 46:2 42:2 47:18
49:24 50:22 50:11,23 26:20 45:9 Sotomayor 17:3
risk 29:14 33:19 scale 47:3 settled 25:25 42:15
ROBERTS 3:3 6:3,12,15 7:6 show 8:24 9:11 sound 49:19
33:15 32:12,25 33:10 15:15,22,25 51:19 specific 27:1,2
21:2,7 scope 45:19 shows 13:18 standard 11:13
11:5 15:9 run 10:7 17:23 37:15 43:3 48:16 standards 11:20
19:11 33:19 50:11,12 signed 50:25 11:22
21:19 searches 36:6,13 significantly 51:6 standpoint 46:15
43:3,4,18 S 36:14 simple 48:8,9 46:16
46:3 S 2:1 3:1 second 4:6,24 simply 10:4 start 48:14
50:4 safeguard 15:10 9:1 10:1 19:21 12:24 14:24 started 22:6
16:12 19:5 37:7 42:8 24:5 26:17 30:3 State 28:3,17
52:7,7 secure 7:14 40:10 43:19 statements 27:1
12:19 28:2 10:18 14:15,23 37:18 41:11 8:21 9:22 10:15 45:6
15:2,7 35:5,7 42:16 43:5,5,7 11:6,6,13,19 three 3:17
48:11 52:5 46:22 47:15 11:19 13:2,25 threshold 43:21
subjectivity 4:15 49:15 14:15,19,20 thumb 47:3
53:13 teaching 25:5 17:9,10,11,12 20:16 26:8
11:10 substantive tell 24:22 36:25 19:4,5,10,15 48:1 49:7
19:23 telling 27:6 51:1 20:6,8 21:14,25 times 21:5
13:7,12 sue 50:1 terms 53:4 22:12,17,18 time-consuming
18:25 sued 12:7 Terry 36:5,8,8,9 23:17,24,25 4:15
21:6,20 sufficient 46:20 36:10 24:3,10,10,21 today 52:9
23:6 suggest 32:5 test 14:21 40:7 24:24 25:4,5,8 told 30:17 50:20
24:2,12 suggesting 41:2 43:20 44:15 25:19,24 26:6 top 25:20 39:25
26:1,6 suite 8:18 testify 7:19 26:12,13,15,18 total 7:24
31:1,7,12 suits 4:3 47:23 26:19,20 27:6 totally 13:15
supervised 28:20 testimony 7:14 28:16,17,23 tough 40:1
suppose 13:6,6 10:10 11:12,14 29:17,20,25 tradition 19:7
19:24,25 50:24 11:15 15:3 30:7,9,24 31:2 traditional 36:21
39:9 40:3 Supreme 1:1,12 17:14 21:10 31:9,21,24 32:8 traditions 21:2
43:11 sure 6:12 11:14 22:14 23:8,8,9 32:18 33:5,7,22 41:18
46:5,23 13:15 14:13 23:9,12,21 26:2 33:25 34:18,21 transformed
50:10 52:6 20:7 24:18 26:5,11 31:8,24 35:3,7,11,12 41:4
33:23 39:1 32:1 34:8,13,15 35:16 36:8,8 travel 8:3
28:4,8 sureties 52:17 38:10,21,21 38:6,7,7,9,14 trial 7:20,22 8:4
47:20 suspect 10:21 49:20 41:5,11,13,16 17:4,6,8,14,16
18:7 25:10 26:7 15:6 51:12,21 52:8 true 37:10 48:18
33:2 talking 16:3 32:5 thought 6:3,4 8:8 turn 25:18 30:21
30:24
42:7 32:14,15 50:11 52:3 46:22 47:15 38:20
36:1 37:4 24:1 26:2,4 warden 50:2 wholly 22:8,10 20:9 22:23 25:5
44:8 27:20 32:11 warrant 3:14,20 44:13,13 26:16 27:20
51:7 34:2,6,15,17 4:21 7:7,14 Whren 10:16 37:22 52:10
52:8 14:21 38:5 24:10,18,22,24 wrong 18:17
Van 16:21 42:24,25 43:1,3 36:20 52:5 37:5
46:18 veil 6:1 Washington 1:8 willy-nilly 16:20 X
50:6 53:7 verdict 8:10,15 1:16 18:6 x 1:2,7
view 3:22 Y
26:11 windfall 26:3
29:23 witness 3:14,20
49:5 5:7 6:18,24
violate 9:16 27:23
violated 4:7 York 1:18,18
9:22 12:16 12:20,25 13:8
14:14 violation 4:13 32:19 33:6,15 21:6,9,11,22 48:4
24:21 11:2,2 20:10 40:12,22,25 23:6,7,11,11 10-98 1:4 3:4
22:16 25:3 44:9,22 46:17 23:14 24:2,12 11:18 1:13 3:2
36:19 38:23 ways 18:19 22:22 26:17 27:13 112 40:19
40:4,5,22 25:17 27:24 Wednesday 1:9 29:11,12 31:1 15 8:2 39:25
voluntarily 21:22 went 7:13 41:23 38:5 41:23 154 40:19
35:15 we'll 3:3 41:19 49:2 50:24 51:2
24:22 1846 12:18 52:14
45:9 34:12,16 36:24 9:9 21:20 25:12
29:6 30:8 19 52:25
34:3,8 19th 45:18
12:19 39:23 40:3,8 44:7
35:21 1900s 29:23
41:11 42:3,25 worked 39:20
37:1 38:9 1971 46:7
49:20 1983 46:3,10
1:9 21:4 44:4
2:7 8:9
4:20 7:9,25
1:9
49:18
40:23
2:4
28:8 47:20
20:12
9:3
4:9 11:10
52:6
27:12
40:23
11:21
2:10
17:12
41:9
23:25 27:8
47:16
27:18
48:21
48:21
