IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ALBERT W. FLORENCE, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 10-945
BOARD OF CHOSEN FREEHOLDERS OF :
THE COUNTY OF BURLINGTON, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, October 12, 2011
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
Petitioner.
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.; Washington, D.C.; for
Respondents.
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the
Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington,
D.C.; for the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 32
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, 52
as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondents
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 62
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-945, Florence v. The Board
of Chosen Freeholders of the County of Burlington.
Mr. Goldstein.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, may it
please the Court:
We ask this Court to hold that a jail may
strip search an arrestee in cases of reasonable
suspicion. That is the rule that was applied throughout
almost the entire country in the three decades after
Bell v. Wolfish, without either administrative
difficulty or any apparent increase in smuggling. We're
here today, of course, because both the Burlington Jail
and the Essex County Jail require every arrestee to
stand 2 feet in front of a correctional officer and
strip naked.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you apply the
reasonable suspicion rule to all arrestees? I thought
you were making a distinction between felons and less
serious offenders.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We do apply it to all
arrestees. The Respondents and the U.S. Bureau of
Prisons do draw a line at major versus minor offenders.
I think they do that because they think that people who
commit more serious crimes might be inclined to greater
criminality. But our rule is one of reasonable
suspicion. Our question presented draws a line at minor
offenders because this class definition is only people
who were arrested for minor offenses.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is the reasonable
suspicion test more easily met if it's a felon detained
for a serious felony?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It is in the view of the
courts that have considered this question, absolutely.
In our view -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In your -- in your view?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Yes, and, in fact -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then you are going
on a case-by-case basis based on the offense.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The category -- there is a
categorical rule, and that is -- that was adopted by
these Respondents, by the Bureau of Prisons, and four
court of appeals, that says if you were arrested for a
more serious offense, categorically there exists
reasonable suspicion.
Our case-by-case rule, it's true, applies
with respect to minor offenders. And, again, that's the
class that was defined here.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, how would this work
with respect to individuals who have been arrested for
serious offenses? Let's say someone has been arrested
for -- for assault. Say it's a case of domestic
violence, assault. Would that be enough to justify a
search?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I think you will have to
ask -- I know you want me to answer the question. Let
me just be very clear. This is their rule. The
Respondents draw the major/minor offense line. The
Respondents apply a reasonable suspicion standard. Now,
in my view -
JUSTICE ALITO: No, I understand. You say
that you don't want to draw that line; you want to apply
it to -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- to everybody, and I'm
asking you whether the mere fact that someone has been
arrested for a violent offense would in your judgment be
sufficient to provide reasonable suspicion.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: If the jail made that
judgment, we would think that a court would not overturn
that judgment. We think that illustrates that, by
contrast to when someone is arrested for not paying a
fine, that there is no justification whatsoever, because
the logic of their own policy is that this is a person
who's inclined to violence -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I take it -- I take it
what we're trying to do is to protect the individual
dignity of the detainee. But it seems to me that you
risk compromising that individual dignity if you say we
have reasonable suspicion as to you, but not as to you.
You're just setting us up, and you're setting the
detainee up for a classification that may be questioned
at the time and will be seen as an affront based on the
person's race, based on what he said or she said to the
officers coming in.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And so, it seems to me
that your rule imperils individual dignity in a way that
the blanket rule does not.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, a couple of points,
Justice Kennedy. I think it's an incredibly important
issue. They don't have a blanket rule. Remember, the
Respondents apply a reasonable suspicion standard. They
do strip everyone naked, but if they're going to look
for contraband -- that is, look at the person's mouth,
look at their anus -- they apply a reasonable suspicion
standard.
Now, to your very serious concern that maybe
we are inviting discrimination or at least an appearance
of discrimination, remember that their rule is going to
produce more of that problem than ours, because their
rule is not that they have to strip search -- they have
to strip search everyone for contraband, but their rule
is they can. They can make a choice.
This Court in the Fourth -- they say we -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm not sure if it's
their rule or our rule. Ultimately, it's going to be
our rule.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, okay. Well, then -
(Laughter.)
MR. GOLDSTEIN: First let me say I hope not.
I hope that your rule is that there has to be a
reasonable suspicion standard, which is the rule that
was applied almost everywhere in the wake of
Bell v. Wolfish, without -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: To do -- to do what?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You just said that strip
naked is different from a strip search.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, exactly.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, what is permitted?
There are various things. One is showering in the
presence of officers?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Showering in the presence of
officers is not something that requires reasonable
suspicion. The courts have uniformly concluded that if
you are just generally in an area in which you're being
monitored by the officers, that's not a Fourth Amendment
search that violates a reasonable expectation of
privacy. This is different.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They -- they can be
inspected without their clothes; just nothing more than
that?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: There are two different
scenarios. One is a common room where everyone is
standing around, and for jail security purposes -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: A common?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: A common room, a common
shower area. And, of course, for security purposes.
This is different, Justice Ginsburg. You
asked what's prohibited in the absence of reasonable
suspicion. What's prohibited is standing 2 feet away
from the person -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, I want to know what's
permitted.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, what is permitted is
anything -- what is not subject to a reasonable
suspicion standard is anything other than looking at -
a close inspection of the person at arm's length. What
the courts of appeals have uniformly recognized, in the
lower Federal courts, what the literature recognizes and
really what I think concerned this Court in the Safford
case is that when you are standing so close to the
person inspecting their genitals, looking directly at
their most private parts of their bodies, that is a
direct intrusion on their individual privacy -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Are you
--are you suggesting three different levels? Stripping
naked: It's okay to stand 5 feet away, but not 2?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I don't think that the
courts have had to confront 5 feet versus 2 feet. What
they have confronted is they acknowledge that jails are
places that require security. And so, if you're just
observing a shower room, that does not implicate a
reasonable expectation of privacy.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So, are you
-- are you taking the position that it's the purpose of
the search -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, I'm taking -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that's at issue?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, it's the closeness of
it. There is not a problem, I think, with the question
of 2, 3, 4, or 5 feet. These searches all occur in the
same way, and that is the officer stands directly in
front of you. The testimony here is 2 feet away. That
seems to be the common -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm still -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- unsure if it's okay
to shower -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and have an officer
watch you shower naked.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What is -- the greater
intrusion is that you're standing 2 as opposed to 5 feet
away?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Two versus 10 feet away or
just generally observing the room. This is exactly -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. If that's a
line, that doesn't make much sense to me.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Then let's go to the
next line, which is -- that's one kind of search.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The second is I think
what some have called a visual cavity search.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Whether you're going to
have the individual open or expose private parts.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you make an argument
that that's different than just a visual search?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: You can. So, let me just
say -- let me just try and close off my answer to the
question of the 5 versus 10 feet and then turn
immediately to this visual body cavity search.
Remember, this is -- the Court will recall
that this is a reprise of the argument in the Safford
case, where the schools there argued that, well, there's
an observation of these students in gym class, they
shower together naked, they undress naked. And the
Court said it's quite different when you're standing
right there looking over the student. Now, as to -- and
said that's what implicates a Fourth Amendment right of
privacy, and the distinction did make sense.
As to your question, yes, there is a
material difference, we think, although we think both
should be covered by our rule. But a visual body cavity
inspection as occurred in the Essex facility here, where
you require someone to bend over and cough, which is
what the testimony is in this case -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: One, not the other?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's correct.
That -- the second jail had a slightly
different search protocol, in which the testimony is
that he was required to bend over and cough and expose
his anus for inspection. And the Respondents themselves
regard that as a more significant intrusion, and they
apply a reasonable suspicion standard themselves to
that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Goldstein, what -- what
you propose is reasonable enough, I suppose, and some
States could adopt that kind of a protocol instead of
what they have. But what you're asserting is that the
Fourth Amendment prohibits them from adopting it, and
the obstacle I see is that at the time the Fourth
Amendment was adopted, this -- this was standard
practice, to strip search people who were admitted to
prisons. So, how could it be deemed an unreasonable
invasion of privacy when it -- when it was done all the
time and nobody thought it was unconstitutional?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We don't believe that the
premise is correct. If you read history differently
than me, I'm not going to be able to persuade you. But
our understanding of the history is that the closest
they can come to is two things: First, that people were
strip searched upon arrest, and that's certainly not the
rule under the Fourth Amendment; and that in certain
jails at the time of the founding, other inmates in a
process of ablution, what is almost kind of a ritual
cleansing, would strip search new inmates. It had
nothing to do with the jail officials themselves or
trying to intercept contraband.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That is somehow less of an
intrusion -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It's just a -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- on your privacy, to be
naked in front of a whole bunch of inmates, rather than
one jail official inspecting?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, first, it wasn't a
nearly -- the nearly uniform practice that I think your
question assumes. And it's just a different kettle of
fish entirely, that -- we don't believe, obviously, that
that historical lesson obtains today, that the prisoners
can strip search new inmates as they -- new arrestees as
they come in.
I do agree with the basic premise of your
question that it's -- our position can't just be that,
hey, I've got a reasonable rule. I do have to, in
either under the terms of Bell v. Wolfish or
Turner v. Safley, establish that this is an exaggerated
response, that this is much more, materially more than
is necessary to accomplish their goals.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But less intrusive than
the one -- the search in Bell v. Wolfish, which involved
pretrial detainees?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, Justice Ginsburg, we
disagree with that. At least as to the second search,
we think that there is no difference between the degree
of intrusion here and in Bell. But there is another
significant reason that this -- not just in the nature
of the search, but a big difference between this case
and Bell is that the inmates in that case made a
voluntary choice. They decided to have the contact
visits that was -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we know if the
pretrial detainees in Bell were also inspected on entry
into the facility?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We do not. I tried
everything I could to check the record of that case, and
there was no record of an admission strip search at the
MCC at the time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, is there -
there is a distinction between the simple strip search
and the visual body cavity search. You say that they
apply reasonable suspicion standard to the visual body
cavity search.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, is the visual
cavity search therefore off the table?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, it is not. We contend
that the Fourth Amendment prohibited the visual body
cavity search at the Essex facility. So -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right, right. But
you would say that they had to have a reasonable
articulable suspicion before they could do that?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We say that under their
written policy, they should have, but they didn't. The
Burlington County -- the only evidence about a
conclusion of the jail about reasonable suspicion is
that the Burlington County intake officer filled out a
form saying there is no reasonable suspicion here. And
Essex I don't believe contends that there was reasonable
suspicion to engage in a visual body cavity search.
They deny, as a matter of fact, that it happened.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- so, you see a
distinction between what they actually do and the
written policy.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I do with respect to the
Essex -- I apologize -- no. What happened here is that
Essex, after this search occurred -- and this is
described in the Essex brief in opposition, in case you
want to look at it later, at 3 in note 1. Essex, after
the search in this case, changed its policy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We were denied an injunction
going forward under L.A. v. Lyons. So, we -- it's just
a question of damages for the search that occurred at
the time under their old policy.
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm confused about your -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I -
JUSTICE ALITO: -- your position. Suppose a
jurisdiction has the policy of requiring every inmate
who is arrested and is going to be held in custody to
disrobe and take a shower and apply medication for the
prevention of the spread of lice and is observed while
this is taking place from some distance by a corrections
officer, let's say 10 feet away. Is that -- does that
require reasonable suspicion?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It does not. The -- and -
and -
JUSTICE ALITO: And so, your -- your only
concern is searches that go further than that.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's exactly right. The
very close inspection of the individual's genitals,
which can occur absolutely so long as there is some
minimal level of suspicion that's created.
I do want to return to Justice Kennedy's
concern about dignitary interests here and whether
drawing any sort -
JUSTICE ALITO: Is there -- could I just
follow up on that? Is there a dispute of fact as to
whether anything beyond that occurred in Burlington
County?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: In Burlington County, there
is a dispute about the so-called genital lift, whether
Mr. Florence was required to lift his genitals or not.
There is no dispute that he was required directly in
front of an officer to strip naked, despite the officer
having made a finding, which is on page 390 of the joint
appendix, that there was no reasonable suspicion to
conduct a strip search. That is the only factual
dispute -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: -- in the entire case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you clarify two
points for me? The first is, was he admitted into the
general population at Burlington?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The record is not entirely
clear. What the record says is that for the first few
days of his stay -- remember, he inexplicably was kept
for 6 days. For the first several days, he was kept in
a cell with only one other inmate, or possibly two, and
one time he had lunch with other people. In Essex, he
was admitted to the general population.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The prior charge against
your client was the use -- involved the use of a deadly
weapon. Assuming the prison knew this, wouldn't that
provide the reasonable suspicion that you argue was
missing?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, because it depends -
because of the breadth of the phrase "possession of a
deadly weapon," as this case illustrates. The record
shows that the possession of the deadly weapon -- and
that's why this charge was not pursued by the State -
is -- was that he was pulled over at a traffic stop and
he drove away. The deadly weapon is the car in this -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, now you're feeding
into your adversaries' arguments that what you're asking
the police to do on intake, or the corrections facility
on intake, is to investigate in that fine detail. They
can't even look at the rap sheet -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and see use of a
deadly weapon and say, ah, this guy could be dangerous?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, Justice Sotomayor. The
rap sheet does not contain that charge. What the rap
sheet does show -- and we are perfectly fine with them
looking at the rap sheet. The rap sheet -- and it's in
the joint appendix. The rap sheet says that he had a
single charge, he pleaded guilty, he got a term of
probation. There is nothing about that the jail would
have had any information suggesting that he had some
charge involving a deadly weapon. And that's why they
themselves certified that there was no reasonable
suspicion.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, is the rap sheet
always available immediately? I thought it was rather
common -- correct me if I'm wrong -- just based on
practice some years ago, that it -- it would take maybe
24 hours, 48 hours for the wiretap -- for the wire
services and the Internet to -- to report that he was
wanted for questioning for some very, very serious crime
in some other State.
I mean, in my practice at least, county
jails were much more dangerous than penitentiaries,
because you don't know who these people are. You arrest
them for traffic, and it may be some serial killer. You
do not know.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. First, that is not
the view of the jails in this case. Remember, they
apply a reasonable suspicion standard. They did not
find any concern in their own policies, neither does the
Marshals Service, ICE, with this prospect of some prior
offense.
As to what the rule is and how common it is
and whether this works in practice, the jail here did
look him up in the New Jersey Criminal Justice
Information System. That's in the record. They're
required by New Jersey law to do that. It's a -- every
single one of these jails has computer access to the
NJ CJIS, and also to the NCIC; they just type in his
identifying information.
They were able to pull him up without any
difficulty, and they have not complained that they
didn't have enough information about him. They filled
out a form saying there is no reasonable suspicion here.
And remember, our rule only operates in a system,
Justice Kennedy, in which the jail does have enough
information. When -- our point is this: If the jail
has the facts, as it did here, to affirmatively
determine that there is no reasonable suspicion, which
is what they decided about Mr. Florence, then it is an
extraordinary intrusion on dignity and autonomy to strip
him naked -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: -- when they have no reason
to do so.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, my
understanding of the statistics -- and correct me if I'm
wrong -- is that they get about 70 new people going
through this process a day. Is there anything in the
record about how much additional time it would require
to look at each one, to look at their record, to
determine which category they should fall into, to strip
search or not, as opposed to having a blanket rule?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. There is because they
do this already. They -- it is not an administrative
problem. They apply our rule today. Remember,
Mr. Chief Justice, when he arrived at the Burlington
County Jail, they did an assessment of him and
determined that there was no reasonable suspicion. The
jails in this case did pull up his prior criminal
history, and they have no problem doing that. They
apply our standard today. It is not a difficult one.
But -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Goldstein, you -- YOU
have acknowledged that we have held that when you have
visitors, you may be strip -- strip searched after the
visit and the same kind of close examination that you
object to here. Now, your explanation why that is okay
is that that is voluntary.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I have two explanations.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That you don't have to have
visitors. Can you really condition your -- your having
visitors on your waiver of your Fourth Amendment rights?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Block establishes that
you have no right whatsoever to have contact visits.
So, under Schneckloth v. Bustamonte, of course, you can
say I voluntarily relinquish my Fourth Amendment right
in exchange for this privilege.
But I have a second -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are -- are you sure about
that?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can -- you can
condition certain -- certain privileges upon a waiver
of constitutional privileges?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, I believe that
that's -- I think that's a fair statement of the law.
I do have a second point, though, and that
is that the principal reason underlying
Bell v. Wolfish's holding that those searches were
reasonable is that it was essential to deter smuggling,
and that deterrence rationale has much more of an
attenuated relationship to this case.
Remember that the inmate in that case was
having a planned meeting with someone, and the
representation of the government is that our problem is
if you plan to have somebody come visit you and you're
going to have a contact visit, you can plan for them to
try and sneak something to you. This Court has set -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Goldstein, there, of
course, were guards there who were watching the visits.
And, as I understand that case, there was really no
empirical evidence that smuggling came about as a result
of these visits.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, can I just read to you
what the Court said about that? Just so -- the Court
did have a slightly different take, I think. And this
is from page 559 of the Court's opinion: "That there
has been only one instance where an MCC inmate was
discovered attempting to smuggle contraband into the
institution on his person may be more a testament to the
effectiveness of the search technique as a deterrent
than to any lack of interest on the part of the inmate
to secrete and import such items when the opportunity
arises."
And our point is that that -- when you have
an unexpected arrest here -- remember, Mr. Florence
showed the paperwork that he was not wanted for arrest.
And that's going to be generally true in all kinds of
traffic stops and the like -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, which is it you're
doing? I mean, I imagine -- I thought you were saying
you always need reasonable suspicion. So, I imagine a
case where the person is going to be arrested, put into
the general prison population. There is a warrant out
against him for second-degree murder, and the policeman
stopping him for a traffic offense arrests him because
he knows he is wanted on a warrant in another place.
And the jail has a policy that says when you're -- come
in here because of second-degree murder, we strip search
you. Okay? Can they do that under your rule or not?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's all they know.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. That's reasonable
suspicion.
JUSTICE BREYER: Then you do not want to -
then you are not saying it always has to be reasonable
suspicion.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It's just a debate about
words. We think that is reasonable suspicion.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, all right. Well, that
isn't helping me.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: What helps me is to know
what the category of things is that the jail in your
opinion is going to have to look into the
characteristics of this individual person, and when I
look at the ABA, they talk about minor arrests.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And when I look at some of
the cases, there's a long list, like violence, drugs,
and so forth, where you don't have to, where you can
just use a general -- the fact that he was arrested -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- for the thing. But there
are other ones, minor ones, where you do. So, what's
your rule on that?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Our rule that we would
accept is that, with respect to minor offenders, that's
when you assess -
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Then the next
question which we'll get -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- who is a minor offender
and how do you administer that rule?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. I think that is a
great question for them, because that's their rule.
They have a rule that says for minor offenders that you
have to have reasonable suspicion to search for
contraband.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you are trying to
state the constitutional rule, and you keep talking
about what is their rule, and we're trying to find out
what are the limits -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- of the rule, and I
think you've already qualified what you said opening.
Opening, you said reasonable suspicion is the rule for
everyone, the felon as well as the minor offenders. Now
you seem to be saying, well, this case involves only
minor offenders; so, let's limit it to that. That's
what I thought you were saying now.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, that's right. Because
this case only involves minor offenders, we have
articulated a rule with respect to minor offenders.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. That's what
I'm -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: Unfortunately, I'm asking
you and not them, and it's the same question.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: How do you want us to write
this so that jail personnel all over the country -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- have to be able to
follow it and know exactly what they're supposed to do.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: For three decades the rule
that was articulated by the Federal courts and applied
without difficulty is one that says for minor offenses.
When that was applied in practice it was basically done
at a felony versus misdemeanor line. The court accepted
that if you are -- the courts accepted that if you are
suspected of a more serious offense, then for
administrative reasons and because we just think you
might be engaged in more criminality, then you don't
have to have any individualized inquiry whatsoever.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I can understand that -- I
can understand that for cavity searches, but -- but why
for the search to see that -- if the person has any
fleas or cooties or, you know, any -- any other
communicable disease before he's put into the general
population? Are -- are felons more likely to have those
than non-felons?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, they are not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, that line makes no
sense for that aspect of the search which is -- is just
we want to make sure that we have a clean prison.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is not correct. That
aspect -- what the testimony in this case establishes is
that the jail guards allow any sort of medical rationale
for the search to be conducted by medical personnel, not
by the guards themselves. All these inmates are
examined by a medical person, a nurse or the like, and
they are responsible for -- for -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that -- that's where
the Fourth Amendment invasion of privacy line is to be
drawn? If you're examined close up by someone who has a
medical degree, it's okay? And, on the other hand, if
it's someone who does not have a medical degree, it's
not okay?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That can't be the line as
to whether your privacy is being invaded.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It -- it can be the line,
and it is the line that's been accepted for decades.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even for -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you -- you would -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- body lice?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- have to keep the person
in custody, say, for 24 or 48 hours until the medical
personnel could come. Do you have 24-hour medical
personnel for intakes that are at 2 in the morning?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. The intake process,
the testimony is that -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they are -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're telling us that
every county jail in -- in the United States has medical
personnel on duty 24 hours a day ready to do a -- a
search?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, I apologize,
Justice Kennedy. I'm telling you what's in the record
in this case. And that is -
JUSTICE BREYER: You said before was 2 feet
is too close, but 5 feet is okay. Are you sticking with
that?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Breyer, I'm saying
that a close inspection which is intended to examine the
person's individual -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: -- genitals, and whether
it's at 2 feet or 4 feet I don't think is the relevant
line.
If I could make one point, and then reserve
the remainder of my time, that that -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I just ask, on your
medical personnel, children in school get inspected for
-- for head lice, prisoners for body lice. You don't
need a doctor to do that?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, that's right, but if
that is right, what happens is that medical
professionals are the people who are assigned that
responsibility. That's the testimony in this case. The
only last point that I wanted to make is -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's not
constitutionally required.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I -- I agree. That -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, that's another thing
that -- that you don't need to -- they can inspect for
body lice, and that's -- that's okay?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: If that's what they're
doing, I think that that is okay. The courts have said
that that is not itself a -- because of the prospect of
handling that problem with shampoo, which is what these
jails do, that that's not a sufficient -- a sufficient
justification to require the person to strip naked.
The only other point that I did want to make
is that this is the rule, not just at Burlington and
Essex, but also of the U.S. Marshals Service, which has
the intake of 220,000 inmates every year, and also of
the Bureau of Immigration Customs Enforcement, which
intakes 384,000 a year.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the Government tells
us that that's true only if they don't put the arrestee
in the general population.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's not correct. That is
only the policy of the U.S. Bureau of Prisons, which has
an intake of minor offenders of only a few thousand
people a year. For the Marshals Service and for ICE,
which have a combined 600,000 people every year, they do
not have that separate housing rule.
If I could reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll give you
rebuttal time, but maybe just to be clear -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- you don't -- do
you or do you not have an objection to the superseding
ECCF policy?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We -- if the -- we do,
because they still have to stand naked directly in front
of the correctional officer under the superseding
policy. What the superseding policy is, which is
Burlington's policy throughout this, is that they will
not search the person for contraband, which is their
supposed interest here, for contraband, in the absence
of reasonable suspicion.
Both jails at the time of this search and
also now will still require the person to strip naked,
supposedly for contraband, even though their own policy
says we won't search for -- we won't engage in the depth
of search that's required, we won't look at the anus, we
won't look in the person's mouth, in the absence of
reasonable suspicion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's the current
policy?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is the current policy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you have no
problem with that.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We do have -- I -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, you have no
problem with the reasonable, articulable suspicion
aspect of the body cavity search.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. And with
respect to the simple strip search -
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- your only
objection is that the guard is too close to the inmate?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Thank you.
Mr. Phillips.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
I actually appreciate the clarification that
your questions brought to this case, because I think
there's a bit of confusion that I'd like to try to clear
up, although my -- my colleague's movement in terms of
answering some of the questions left me a little bit
perplexed as to exactly what the nature of their claims
are.
The -- the first question that it seems to
me the Court should focus on is what policy is at issue
here. And, obviously, since the class certification
deals with one set of issues and the plaintiff's claims
deal with another set of issues, I think you have to be
careful.
I think you have to focus on the policies
that existed in 2005. That was the basis on which he
was in fact searched under these circumstances. And the
policy in Burlington was that -- was primarily aimed,
frankly, at health and tattoos, and the policy at Essex
was aimed primarily at contraband and then secondarily
at tattoos and health.
And the policy at Burlington was largely
a -- you come into prison, you give up your clothes,
they look through your clothes, you take a shower, they
examine you fairly cursorily, but look at you, and then
-- then give you prison garb and move along your way.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Is the
shower and look at you cursorily -- are those separate
things? Or is it during the shower?
MR. PHILLIPS: It -- it's before or during.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because your friend
places a lot of significance on how close -
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- the examination
is. So, under that policy, how close was the
examination?
MR. PHILLIPS: It almost certainly would
have been about an arm's length, because at that -- I
mean, the problem is if you're exchanging clothes with
somebody, you're handing them clothes to change into,
it's sort of hard to be longer than arm's length and
actually get the clothes into his hand. So that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Two arms' lengths. I mean,
he could reach out, right?
MR. PHILLIPS: Okay. Two arms' lengths.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's not
right. They could take -
MR. PHILLIPS: But I'm not -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's not right.
You could take the clothes off, put them in a bin -
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The person examines
the bin.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And that's actually
what they do in Essex. In Essex, they do it that way.
The difference between Essex is that Essex, in fact,
does have -- I mean, part of the problem is
terminological, all right?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. PHILLIPS: You know, Burlington is
basically a body visual observation, and the district
court said that's unconstitutional, that just observing
at all is unconstitutional.
To some extent, it seems to me my -- my
friend here has given up that part of the district
court's decision, which -- then clearly the court of
appeals, to the extent it reversed that part, ought to
be affirmed on that ground alone.
JUSTICE BREYER: Visual observation from
more than 2 feet, or less than 2 feet?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, although that -- that
was not the district court's theory. The district court
didn't say 2 to 3 feet.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. What happened? Do
we know? Was the search within 2 feet or not within 2
feet?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it depends on whose
version of it.
JUSTICE BREYER: We don't know.
MR. PHILLIPS: You have to remember, the
district court granted summary judgment to the plaintiff
in this case. So, you would have to -- you would have
to interpret -- you'd have to give us the benefit of the
interpretation, which was that it was more than 2 feet.
But the court of appeals reversed, of
course, without regard to that, because the court of
appeals said, look, if you -- if you apply this Court's
decision in Bell v. Wolfish, it doesn't matter, because
you can engage in a much more intrusive true body cavity
search, which frankly is more intrusive than even what
Essex County asks -- has -- does in this case, because
he wasn't asked to bend over and to -- and to have a
body cavity anal search. What he was asked to do was to
squat and cough, in the event that -- because ordinarily
that will cause the contraband then to fall out, and you
can -- and you can catch it under those circumstances.
So, this is -- that's sort of the context in
which this issue comes up.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Phillips, if I could
understand your position, you think that there's no
reasonable suspicion even for that more intrusive body
cavity search; is that right?
MR. PHILLIPS: That's correct. That's my -
that's the rule of law I'm asking for.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And does it matter to you
whether the person is being introduced into the general
prison population, or would you also say that if the
person is not being introduced into the general prison
population? Do you still think that there's no
reasonable suspicion requirement?
MR. PHILLIPS: I would say, from my
perspective, I think even -- even if they weren't going
to be admitted into the general prison population,
because the risks remain too substantial. But the truth
is I don't have to defend that argument, because both -
both of these jails admit the -- their inmates into the
-- into the general population 99.9 percent of the time.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would a manual search -
MR. PHILLIPS: So, that's not a line we
draw.
JUSTICE ALITO: Would you say that
regardless of the offense for which the person is
arrested? There have been some stories in the news
recently about cities that have taken to arresting
people for traffic citations. So, suppose someone is
just arrested because they have a lot of tickets for
being caught on speed cameras, let's say. That person
can be subjected to the searches that you're describing?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, Justice Alito. I think
the basic principle we're asking for is that deference
to the jails and -- and to the administrators of the
jails requires that this Court respect their judgment
that you can't make a distinction based on that specific
individual; that whether somebody is a minor offender or
a major offender, one, is never all that clear in the
first place, and, two, isn't a basis on which to
distinguish the risks that it poses to the -
JUSTICE BREYER: Try the ABA. The ABA is
minor offenses, not drugs, not violence, and there you
have to have reasonable suspicion. Now, I've read
through the briefs, and I can't find a lot of
contrabanders that were caught in that category. In
fact, my law clerk thinks it's one out of 64,000 or
less. So -- so, what is the justification for a rule to
avoid reasonable suspicion in that category?
MR. PHILLIPS: If -- if you look at the
expert testimony that was before the court, in the
district court in this case, both the expert testimony
of the plaintiff and the expert testimony of the
defendant -- this is at 348a of the joint appendix. It
says "a greater presence of contraband amongst those
individuals that have minor offenses." That's his -
that's their expert's characterization, that minor
offenders bring in more contraband than major offenders.
Our experts said misdemeanants can be more dangerous and
more likely to bring in contraband -
JUSTICE BREYER: It's a conclusion -
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and we have a lot of
practical experience because different States have
different rules, and San Francisco came in with I think
the toughest on your side, for your side. I just say,
looking through that, it's very hard to find somebody
who really was in this minor offender category, who
really was found to have contraband. So, what should I
look at to show that my initial reaction from a quick
reading is wrong.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean -
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, do I just say this
is a -
MR. PHILLIPS: -- I think you can go back to
Bell v. Wolfish, where this Court said that the fact
that there is not a lot of contraband being found may be
a testament to the effectiveness of the deterrent.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, why do we change the
policy? In Bell, we found that the policy was
successful. Even though there were searches, contraband
still got in. So, virtually every circuit -- in
practice, the Federal system -- have been following this
reasonable suspicion for minor crimes, and they've been
fairly successful. So, why do we change the
constitutional rule to let them do more?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: To invade more.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean, I think, first
of all, anybody who thinks that the problems of
contraband are less serious today than they were in 1978
is -- is ignoring reality.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I understand
contraband is serious, but most of the studies point to
it not being on intake, but coming in through guards,
coming in through contact visits.
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The great cause today is
that from corrupt correction officials.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean, we can debate
that. But, Justice Sotomayor, it seems to me that the
-- that the fundamental principle that ought to
undergird the entirety of the Court's analysis here
comes out of Turner v. Safley and that line of cases,
where -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, could I ask you
something just in terms of your rule? I think your
brief says your rule is you're not entitled
constitutionally to any right of privacy in prison.
MR. PHILLIPS: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If that's the case, are
you saying that if the prisons decide on a manual
search, every prisoner who comes in, correction officers
can manually check their cavities, is that -
MR. PHILLIPS: No, Justice Sotomayor. No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, there is some
privacy right?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, I can be clear about
this. It seems to me that Hudson v. Palmer and the -
and the history of the Fourth Amendment clearly suggest
that there is no reasonable expectation of privacy of
being viewed naked in a prison. And, therefore, the
ordinary Burlington approach of having somebody take a
shower and looking at him or her naked for tattoos and
health and incidental contraband, clearly
constitutional, clearly doesn't even raise a Fourth
Amendment issue.
When you get beyond that point and start to
begin the -- what Essex does, which is not a true anal
cavity search but simply an anal-focused and
genital-focused search, I think that is subject to the
Turner v. Safley and/or the Bell v. Wolfish standard.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can we go back to
Justice Alito's question? Isn't one of the factors that
we look at under the Fourth Amendment reasonableness?
And should we be thinking about the fact that many of
these people who are now being arrested are being put
into general populations or into jails, sometimes not
just overnight but for longer periods of time, like this
gentleman, for 6 days before he sees a magistrate?
Should we be considering a rule that basically says your
right to search someone depends on whether that
individual has in fact been arrested for a crime that's
going to lead to jail time or not, whether that person's
been presented to a magistrate to see whether there is
in fact probable cause for the arrest and detention of
this individual? I mean, there is something unsettling
about permitting the police to arrest people for things,
like kids who are staying out after curfew with no
other -- based on probably nothing else.
MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Sotomayor, I think
what is disturbing about -- about this case is, in fact,
the -- that he was arrested under circumstances in which
he candidly shouldn't have been arrested as a matter of
State law. I understand that. But I think to change
the constitutional rule and to change the
Turner v. Safley and Bell v. Wolfish standards and
ignore what the underlying inquiry should be here, which
is these policies which apply across the board impinge
constitutional protections, but nevertheless
represent -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But what -
MR. PHILLIPS: -- the good-faith judgment of
our jailers.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But what are we doing
with the presumption of innocence? That's also a
constitutional right. And so, shouldn't the degree to
which a search is permitted be conditioned in some way
on whether or not this person has been presented to a
magistrate?
MR. PHILLIPS: I -- if you ask me the way I
would analyze it, I would -- if you want to adopt a
different set of standards about who ought to be
arrested and who ought to be taken to jail, that's fine.
I understand that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I mean -
MR. PHILLIPS: But I think once you're
talking about actually bringing someone into the jail to
be admitted into the general population and what is
without question one of the most dangerous, most risky
environments, in that context I would hope that this
Court, rather than asking individual jailers to make
decisions on the basis of -- where they clearly will not
have the kind of information you're asking them to make
and where if they make a judgment wrong in either
direction, all it means is litigation. Either they -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought -- I
thought your friend said that is exactly what you do
with respect to the visual body cavity search,
reasonable articulable suspicion, under the new policy.
MR. PHILLIPS: That's what we do with a true
anal body cavity search. What we -- I mean, we changed
the policy, to be sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. PHILLIPS: We changed the policy because
of litigation concerns.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, now, as I
understand it, with respect to -
MR. PHILLIPS: Liability concerns.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- with respect to
visual body cavity searches, you require a particular
individual reason, right?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. And you don't
require that with respect to simple strip search?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So, you agree
with your friend that the only thing at issue here is
how close the guard is going to be to the individual who
you have no reasonable suspicion to think is different
than anybody else during a simple strip search?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well -- no -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You want -- he says
2 feet is too close; 5 feet or whatever is okay. You
want to go to 2 feet. You don't want to have to stand
back to 6 feet. That's all the case comes down to?
MR. PHILLIPS: I don't -- well, I mean, you
can characterize it that way. I mean, I think the
better way to think about it is that what Essex wants,
what -- you know, what Essex policy permitted it to do
was to examine the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm not interested
in what Essex policy permitted it to do in the past.
I'm looking at the new policy, all right? Under the new
policy, you have reasonable articulable suspicion -
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- for everything
except simple strip search and observation.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, see, that's the
problem, is that the language there is different.
Because the -- the truth is that the line that the new
policy draws is between a true -- what I -- what I think
Bell v. Wolfish was describing, where you ask the inmate
to bend over and expose his or her anus for a cavity
search. On that score, that's what -- we don't do that.
But we do, in fact, ask -
JUSTICE KAGAN: And, Mr. Phillips -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Could I
finish and find out what you do? You said: We don't do
that. We do -- what?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. What we do is ask the
individual to lift his genitals and to squat and cough.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So, you do
more than a simple strip search.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, slightly more than a
simple strip search.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But, Mr. Phillips, there -
there -
MR. PHILLIPS: But I don't think that's the
line to draw. I think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: There is still an issue in
the case beyond the ordinary visual inspection, and that
is this: Even though you have changed your policy
now -
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, we're still liable.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the question remains
whether that change in policy was constitutionally
required, so that when -- when you treated the -- the
plaintiff in a different fashion under the old policy,
that was a violation of the Constitution.
Doesn't -- doesn't that question remain in
the case?
MR. PHILLIPS: That question clearly remains
in the case. I'm not -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. So, there are two
questions.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, we have to consider
both, the pure visual and also the inspection for
contraband.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And all I'm -- all I
-- the only point I've been trying to make here is that
if you -- if you look at the way the district court
analyzed the case, the district court split it up, and
it's the basis of the class distinction versus the -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does the record or common
experience justify an argument that if you have the
person who's stopped just for a traffic ticket, but that
person is going to be in custody for 5 or 6 days, that
person might well prefer an institution where everyone
has been searched before he or she is put into the
population with -
MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Kennedy, there
actually is testimony in the record from the warden
saying that in order to ensure everybody's safety, we
are better off with a blanket policy that says that
we're going to engage in -- in some form of the search.
Essex has a slightly more intrusive one. But it is all
designed to accomplish the same thing. It's not just
designed to ensure against contraband and -- and that.
It's designed to ensure that there isn't somebody like
Mr. Florence who's going to end up being poked or
otherwise -
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any evidence -- I
count seven or eight States anyway that have some
variation of the reasonable suspicion rule like what
they want, roughly. Is there any evidence at all that
in those seven or eight States, there is more contraband
being smuggled in?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, there is the testimony
in the record from their expert, who said that in
Kentucky, there is today -- the single biggest problem
in Kentucky prisons and the biggest cause of death is
drug overdose, which suggests that there's a serious
contraband issue in Kentucky. Kentucky is in one of
those -- is one of those -- is inside one of the
circuits that has had a reasonable suspicion requirement
as a constitutional matter forever.
So, I would say there -- yes, there is some
evidence from which you could infer that it's worse now
than it was. But I would also ask the Court to rely on
its common sense and its own -- and what it essentially
took judicial notice of in Bell v. Wolfish and
Rutherford v. Black, which is this is a serious problem,
and it is no less a serious problem today than it was
more than 30 years ago, when the Court addressed -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are there any limits -
are there any constitutional limits, in your view? You
say you didn't attempt the kind of search that was done
in Bell v. Wolfish. Is there any constitutional
impediment to your doing so?
MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I don't believe that -
my position would be, no, there isn't a constitutional
impediment, but -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, there's no -
MR. PHILLIPS: -- the balance would tip in
favor of the -- of the institution under those
circumstances. I do think -- obviously, there is a
limit between a manual physical body cavity search, and
that it seems to me, yes, I -- that would -- that would
be a very different balance of the equation, and I -- I
suspect I would be very hard pressed to just -- to
convince five members of this Court that that's the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you want us to write
an opinion that applies only to squatting and coughing.
Is that it?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, you may want to write
it slightly differently -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
(Laughter.)
MR. PHILLIPS: -- Justice Scalia. No, but
what -- but what I would really like is an opinion that
recognizes that deference to the prisons and to their
judgment is what's appropriate under these
circumstances, and that extends all the way to the
Bell v. Wolfish line. The only difference being that I
would like for the Court to analyze it under Turner
v. Safley, in which -- in which the analysis is -- is
this -- you know, is there a logical nexus between the
rule that the -- that the prisons have and preventing a
problem? And the answer is yes. And are there
reasonable alternatives? And there, the answer is no.
If the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You are saying that they
can do the full -- as far as the Constitution is
concerned, all of these searches are permissible.
MR. PHILLIPS: All -- clearly, all of our
searches are permissible, and I would go -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In Bell v. Wolfish -
MR. PHILLIPS: In Bell v. Wolfish. Yes. I
think that's exactly the holding of Bell v. Wolfish.
Bell v. Wolfish was not tied in its opinion itself to
the fact that they -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they did -- they did
stress that there was a visitor who could -- who could
give the inmate contraband. Bell v. Wolfish doesn't -
and I asked Mr. Goldstein whether we know whether the
pretrial detainees in New York were searched that way on
entry, and he said there's nothing that shows one way or
the other.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. I think that's -- I
think that's correct. We don't know. And, of course,
part of the -- and part of the empirical problem in -
in that is that that facility had only been open for 4
months anyway. So, it was really going to be difficult,
if you were going to adopt the policy they adopted in
Bell, to insist on some sort of empirical proof.
JUSTICE KAGAN: The one significant
difference between Bell and this case is that in Bell,
there was a real opportunity for people to plan, to
conspire together to bring in contraband. Here, you're
talking about somebody who's arrested on the spot,
there's no opportunity for planning, for conspiracy with
respect to contraband, is there?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, but the policy itself -
may I answer the question?
The policy is aimed at all people, not just
at Mr. Florence, and if you aim it at all people, there
are people who self-report who've obviously got an
opportunity to bring in contraband, and there are a lot
of people who just get arrested and happen to have drugs
or something on them and, rather than show those when
they're being stopped for a speeding ticket, will likely
stick it in their pocket or put it somewhere else.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Saharsky.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
MS. SAHARSKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The searches at issue in Bell are very
similar to the searches at issue in this case, and they
should be upheld. I want to start with Justice Kagan's
question. It is true that contact visits in Bell are
different from a person coming into the -- to the jail
for the first time in that there might be a greater
opportunity for planning, but as one of the Justices
pointed out, there was less of an opportunity to
actually get contraband, the person coming in was going
to be searched, the inmate, as Justice Marshall pointed
out, was wearing a one-piece zip-up jumper, and he's
being watched the entire time.
The visit -- the contraband situation in
this case at intake, the person does have an
opportunity, even if they are not self-reporting,
knowing that they're going to be arrested. Protesters,
for example, who decide deliberately to get arrested.
They might be stopped by the police, they see the squad
car behind them. They might have a gun or contraband in
their car and think, hey, I'm going to put that on my
person; I just need to get it somewhere that's not going
to be found during a pat-down search. And then
potentially they have the contraband with them.
Also, the process of going from the
arrest -- point of arrest to the general jail population
is not a quick one. The person typically goes, for
example, to a metropolitan police department -- that's
what happens here -- and the person would mix
potentially there in a holding cell with other
offenders.
If this Court, for example, adopted a rule
saying that minor offenders would not be searched in a
way that other offenders would, I have no doubt that
there are some offenders in those circumstances, all on
the bus together to go to the general jail population,
who would give the stuff to the minor offenders -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then how does that -
MS. SAHARSKY: -- to try to get them to
bring it in.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not the Federal
rule. And, by the way, the brief was really confusing.
When what -- when I read page 1, page 1 tells me that
the BOP policy requires all incoming pretrial detainees
to be subject to visual body cavity inspections. And
then it isn't until page 30 that I learn there is an
exception for the very category of arrestee that we're
talking about here, that they are not subject to body
cavity inspections unless there's reasonable suspicion
that they're concealing contraband. That the
misdemeanor or civil contempt offender is not subject.
MS. SAHARSKY: I'm sorry if that was
confusing. The Bureau of Prisons' policy is that a
person will not be put in the general population, being
allowed to mix with other offenders, unless he or she
has undergone the strip search.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but I want to know
how people in this category are treated in the Federal
system. And you -- you -
MS. SAHARSKY: The people -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You reversed it. They -
those people are not subject to this visual body cavity
search.
MS. SAHARSKY: Those people, when they go
into the jail, would be asked whether they're willing to
consent to this type of search. In most cases, they do
consent. If they don't consent and there is not
reasonable suspicion, then they are not placed in the
general jail population; they are kept separate from the
other offenders. So, it is the case, the rule that the
Third Circuit identified, which is a blanket policy that
anyone that's going to go into the general jail
population and mix with everyone else has to be strip
searched. That is the Federal Bureau of Prisons'
policy. I should note that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. I'm sure
I missed something. You say when they go in they're
asked: Will you consent to a more intrusive body cavity
search and be put into the general population; or if you
don't, you don't have to be searched and we put you in
some place else. Who consents to that?
(Laughter.)
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, the general jail
population has certain facilities, you know, computer
facilities and others that you don't get when you're in
a cell by yourselves. As a practical matter, this
arises very, very infrequently in the Federal system.
We're talking about fewer than 1 percent of offenders.
And the question before the Court at this
point really is you have before you a blanket policy
saying we need to strip search everyone, and is that
something that's unreasonable or irrational in the way
that the Court has considered its normal deference to
prison officials? And I just -- I would like to -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I understand most of the
general propositions that your side is advancing, but I
have to say I was somewhat surprised at the evidence of
the amount of contraband that was discovered, the amount
of weapons that was discovered that's in the literature
and that's in the citations, of course, was somewhat
skimpy. I thought there would be a stronger showing
than I -- than I found in the briefs.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, there -- there are not
empirical studies of this type of information.
Typically it arises when there are incidents at a
facility, and incident reports are written up. They're
not published regularly. There's not some kind of
laboratory study that you can do. The facilities have
an incident that they try to deal with. Sometimes it
makes the news. Those are some of the things that we
reported. And I would hate for the Court to think that
there is not evidence of people who've committed -
minor offenders in the record bringing in very serious
things into prisons and jails.
I'd point you to footnote 15 in the
Government's brief, which talks about people being
arrested for traffic offenses and smuggling crack pipes
in body cavities. I'd point the Court to both experts
in this case cited by Mr. Phillips. I'd point the Court
to the record in Bull, the San Francisco case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The issue has to be
certainly some misdemeanor. Some people charged with
misdemeanor crimes will try to smuggle things in. The
issue is how many of them would not have been found on a
reasonable suspicion standard? I think Justice Breyer
said, in the San Francisco study, it appears only one.
MS. SAHARSKY: I think that that's a very
hazardous thing for courts to do with 20/20 hindsight.
You know, the Court could look back at individual
offenders and might have information -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But we don't have 20/20.
We have how many years? Fifteen years since Bell -
MS. SAHARSKY: What I -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- where prisons have
been applying the reasonable suspicion standard. And
the most you can muster under that standard is one
example of a case where someone has entered? At some
point, empirical evidence has to mean something in terms
of us judging the question of reasonableness.
MS. SAHARSKY: I agree with you, but what
I'm saying is that the individuals who are doing the
searches at issue have very limited information about
people. This is when you have people who are coming
into the first -- the system for the first time. They
have had the most contact with the outside world. You
have the least amount of information about them. In the
Federal system, you don't know -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I -- I do have a
question about that today. I know that when -- it's bad
to base your judgments on your own personal experiences.
When I was a prosecutor, it took sometimes days to get a
rap sheet. I understand that that's no longer the case
today, that they're virtually almost always accessible
by computers today.
MS. SAHARSKY: That may be true, but it's
not the information that the people who do intake and
are doing the searches have. They do not have that
information at their fingertips in the Federal system.
They have name, date of birth, and they have the offense
that the person was charged with. They don't know
anything else.
And the question before the Court, if I may,
is whether there are reasons for a blanket rule that
this Court should defer to. And I would say there are
several.
First of all you cannot say that there are
some minor offenders that don't pose a contraband risk.
They are documented in the record. Second, you have
individuals who are making very quick determinations.
They're -- they have large numbers of people to -- to
get through -- into the general prison population. They
have very little time, and if they guess wrong, those
mistakes can be deadly. Third, the rule needs to be -
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose we accept the
Petitioner's concession that it is permissible to
require everybody who is arrested to disrobe and shower
under the observation of the corrections officer from a
certain distance. Now the question would become: How
many people who do that will still be able to smuggle in
contraband?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, there would be
contraband found in -- that would be in body cavities.
And we have documented in this record and other records
in our brief that there are folks who do that, and that
contraband is not found until they do these squat and
cough procedures.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's my -- that's my
problem. I don't -- I overstated the -- the strength of
your evidence. I was just trying to throw it out -- or
I understated it. San Francisco's point is really that
30 to 60 percent or some very high percentage of people
who come in for minor crimes are high on drugs or have
been -- and there is just that footnote really which has
a few examples. Definitely, they're there in this
category. So, would it be helpful if you included in
the excluded part people who are high on drugs? You
see? So, we give you the high on drugs people. It's
the drug offense, and those who are high on drugs and
those -- I mean, is there a way of drawing this rule
that we can even catch most of the people in footnote
50 -
MS. SAHARSKY: I think the fundamental
question for the Court is who is supposed to be doing
this line drawing. And you've said case after case
after case that you're going to defer to the prison and
jail officials who are seeing this stuff on the ground
day to day.
JUSTICE BREYER: But it's obvious that the
simplest thing for any prison official is say do it for
everybody.
MS. SAHARSKY: That's -
JUSTICE BREYER: And so, the fact they do it
for everybody and don't try to make some exclusion for
traffic violators or something might be consistent with
little or no evidence; it might be consistent with some.
That's why I keep looking for it.
MS. SAHARSKY: There are many good reasons,
though, to have a policy to do it for everyone. It is
easily -- easy to administer when you have lots of
people. It is done for the protection of people like
Petitioner who don't want to be knifed in the shower -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What is the reason? If
there's so much sense to that policy, why isn't it the
Federal policy? Before you said because there aren't
that many offenders. If there were more, then would
there be -- would the Federal policy change so that even
people who are in on a contempt charge or a minor
crime -
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes. The Federal Government
thinks that that blanket policy is a good one. It made
one modification to its policy in 2003 when the weight
of the circuits was against it. But, again, this is a
policy that is done for everyone's protection. A point
that Justice Kennedy made earlier is that there -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm sorry, I didn't
understand. You think the Feds think it's a good policy
to inspect everyone?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes, to inspect everyone who
would be put in the general jail population. That is
the Third Circuit's holding, and that's what we're
defending in this case. That's -- because when you have
a rule that treats everyone the same, you don't have
folks that are singled out. You don't have any security
gaps. We urge you to affirm the judgment of the court
below.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Goldstein, take 4 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Thank you, sir.
I have three points to make: The first is
that my friend from the United States says defer to the
experts. But the point that the United States
consistently omits is that there are 600,000 offenders
that go into the Federal system every year. I don't
understand the claim that -- this only involves 1
percent of Federal offenders.
The Marshals Service and ICE admit 600,000
offenders every year under our standard. They are not
kept in separate housing. These are cited in our brief.
Six hundred thousand people, is their expert judgment,
are subject to a reasonable suspicion standard when
they're admitted to jail.
The second point, about numbers,
Justice Breyer, there is a significant empirical study,
and that is the County of Orange case. The district
judge there did an unbelievably detailed job going
through the record of 26,000 admissions into the system
and was able to identify only a single instance where
contraband would have gotten in under a reasonable
suspicion standard.
There is also evidence in this case, and it
is the evidence, to my surprise, that my friends keep
pointing to. There's a memorandum from the Essex jail
system. It's at page 70a to 71a of the joint appendix.
And it tells you two really relevant things. It says
every year they admit 25,175 people into this jail, and
that they only found 14 instances of contraband. And
they don't even make the claim that those 14 instances
out of 25,000 would not have been found under a
reasonable suspicion standard. So, you have evidence in
this record about this particular case.
Third, a couple of points have been made
about whether -- Justice Breyer, you asked whether
someone who's high on drugs. The uniform rule -- and
this is not just the ABA but the expert standard of the
American Correctional Association. What they say is
that essentially almost anything will do. What will not
amount to reasonable suspicion is when you have a minor
offender -- and we do have -- there are 700,000 people
in jail in the United States every year for misdemeanor
offenses. This is -- this is a lot of people who are
having a very significant intrusion on privacy.
And the expert standard, the rule that was
applied under Bell v. Wolfish, is that when you have
people who come in on a minor offense -- they don't have
any drug history. They are not high on drugs. There
was no opportunity to hide a weapon. I'm not sure where
they think the gun is going to be hidden that's not
going to show up in the very close manual pat down that
they do of every one of these people that isn't going to
show up in -
JUSTICE ALITO: I don't think you're really
arguing for a -- an individualized reasonable suspicion
standard. I think you're arguing for a rule that draws
distinctions based on categories that correspond only
perhaps very roughly to reasonable suspicion.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, first, there are real
categories that are overinclusive in favor of the jails,
like if it's a serious offense or if they have any drug
history. And then on top of that, if there's any
individualized basis that the jails can articulate, that
will do as well.
We are not saying that categorically people
will be excluded from being searched. We're saying that
there are entire categories that will automatically be
searchable. We're just saying don't throw the baby out
with the bath water.
When somebody is pulled over like Mr.
Florence, and there's just -- it's laugh-out-loud funny
to think he's smuggling in -- something into this jail;
that it's too much of an intrusion to put him under the
direct, you know, 2 feet away, I'm going to look at your
genitals, as opposed to the ordinary intrusion of saying
we're going to oversee the showers.
There is no evidence when it comes to that
group of people, and there are a lot of them, that they
represent anything like a material threat of smuggling.
And this is a very significant intrusion on individual
privacy and individual dignity.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:05 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
64:11 54:7 anal-focused 37:18 48:1 assess 25:19
60:4 63:19 advancing 56:21 and/or 42:6 arguments 18:20 21:17
66:10 affirm 62:19 51:1 52:10 arms 34:20,22 Association
32:5 20:22 anus 7:1 12:8 34:18 assumes 13:18
affront 6:13 anybody 40:14 24:1,2 42:20,22 attempt 49:18
agree 13:23 anyway 48:19 arrested 4:9,23 attenuated 23:2
28:19 58:15 apologize 16:1 16:15 24:8 65:16
52:11 35:20 36:13,15 53:17,18 57:17 a.m 1:14 3:3 66:9
appears 58:1 arrestees 3:23 back 39:24 42:7
37:24 38:7 appendix 17:17 4:2 13:21 45:15 58:4
65:3 19:6 39:3 63:25 arresting 38:2 bad 58:24
21:14
12:16,18 7:1 12:10 15:2 45:24 38:11 42:24
15:8 22:7 16:16 20:3 articulate 65:12 65:6
28:10 21:15,21 36:15 articulated 26:19 basic 13:23 38:8
42:1,9 43:8 27:7 basically 27:9
approach 41:22 55:15 56:3 64:9 38:14 44:7
64:14 50:18 18:20 26:23 bath 65:18
18:6
44:3
argue 18:10 44:8 2:14 3:9 33:1
arguing 65:4,5 aspect 27:25 believe 12:23
51:25
49:21 25:14,20,23 2:6 32:25 44:25 46:8 50:3 Chosen 1:6 3:6
29:12,15,18 11:15 12:2 56:3 circuits 49:6 62:7
22:24 35:22 36:2,7 14:13,14,21 cell 18:4 54:5 Circuit's 62:15
39:25 38:16 39:10,12 16:3,5 17:21 56:11 circumstances
42:6 43:6 39:22 48:18 18:14 20:2 certain 13:4 33:19 36:24
49:12,19 57:25 60:12 21:19 23:2,3,11 22:18,18 56:9 43:2 50:2,19
51:8,9,10 61:8,12 63:15 24:8 26:14,18 60:3 54:10
52:1,3 64:9 28:3 29:11 30:6 certainly 13:3 citations 38:3
53:2,5 brief 16:3 41:7 33:5 36:10,19 34:14 57:22 56:25
64:20 54:17 57:16 39:1 41:10 43:1 certification cited 57:19 63:10
46:8 briefs 38:19 57:2 47:13,23 52:3 certified 19:11 civil 55:1
bringing 44:2 59:2 61:4,4,5 47:6 62:1 claims 33:9,14
brought 33:5 64:7 66:8,9 44:16,19 47:2 clarify 17:22
48:10 17:9,11,24 categorically 19:3,7,10 62:2 clear 5:12 18:1
56:15 21:16 30:21 4:24 65:14 charged 57:22 31:12 33:6
62:5 33:20,24 35:13 categories 65:6 59:10 38:13 41:17
31:21 21:11 25:4 Chief 3:4,10 44:7 47:12 51:6
22:10 60:20 21:5,16 31:11 close 9:4,8 11:10
30:1,13 caught 38:5,20 31:14 32:7,10 17:1 22:1 28:11
35:14 C cause 36:23 32:13,17,20,23 29:13,16 32:21
37:4 C 1:16 2:1,3,13 40:22 42:20 33:2 34:4,8,11 34:9,12 45:8,13
3:2,8 62:23 49:2 34:24 35:2,5,12 64:25
54:20,23 called 11:2 cavities 41:13 44:11,18,21,24 closeness 10:1
56:3 cameras 38:5 57:18 60:7 45:3,6,12,21 closest 13:1
60:7 candidly 43:3 cavity 11:2,12,24 46:1,12,17 clothes 8:12
25:3,9 CARTER 1:18 42:4 44:13,16 choice 7:9 14:15 combined 31:8
24:13 confusion 33:6 59:17 60:5,7,10 23:15 27:10 day 21:8 29:7
33:25 consent 55:16,17 63:20 64:3 33:3,12 35:15 61:7,7
64:21 55:17 56:3 contrabanders 35:19,25 36:9 days 18:2,3,3
45:15 consider 47:17 contrast 6:2 38:25 39:1,25 deadly 18:8,14
considered 4:14 convince 50:7 44:6 47:22,23 18:15,18 19:1
53:6 considering correct 12:4,24 50:21 53:1 54:7deal 33:15 57:9
58:18 42:15 19:15 21:6 28:2 56:14,18 57:11 deals 33:14
10:6 conspiracy 52:7 41:12 courts 4:14 8:6 decades 3:15
20:7 conspire 52:5 correctional 3:20 9:5,6,16 27:7 27:6 28:19
49:11 Constitution 31:19 64:12 27:11 30:15 decide 41:11
constitutional 16:18 18:21 court's 23:17 decided 14:15
40:10 41:25 correspond 65:6 41:2 decision 35:19
49:17,19,22 cough 12:1,7 crack 57:17 decisions 44:7
30:9 41:8 47:6 60:11 crime 19:19 defend 37:18
17:5 20:4 contain 19:3 41:5 52:20 criminal 20:9 63:2
62:2 count 48:19 criminality 4:6 50:17 56:18
contends 15:19 27:2 curfew 42:23 Definitely 60:19
7:8 13:9 23:19 21:17 29:6 cursorily 34:2,5 deliberately
36:23 39:4,7,9 course 3:18 8:19 Customs 30:24 deny 15:21
disagree 14:9 64:10,22 16:3,4 18:5 exclusion 61:13
56:23,24 D.C 1:9,16,18,22 35:8,8,9,9 exists 4:24
51:17 60:1 ECCF 31:16 ET 1:7 expert 38:25
distance 16:18 effectiveness event 36:22 39:1,2 48:25
15:23 38:11 44:9,10 48:9 expert's 39:6
distinctions 65:6 51:22 52:1 57:4 evidence 15:15 explanations
district 35:14,18 Enforcement 49:9 56:22 expose 11:5 12:7
63:16 32:3 36:17 63:22,23 64:6 extent 35:17,20
35:9 doctor 30:2 engaged 27:14 exactly 7:25 20:25
52:3 documented ensure 48:9,14 10:19 16:25
9:13 doing 21:20 24:6 entered 58:12 51:10 facilities 56:9,10
12:6 30:15 43:14 entire 3:15 17:21 exaggerated 57:8
23:16 49:20 58:16 53:13 65:16 14:2 facility 11:25
43:22 59:7 61:3 entirely 13:19 examination 14:19 15:9
46:4 47:8 domestic 5:7 17:25 22:1 34:11,13 18:21 51:23
53:6 doubt 54:9 entirety 41:2 examine 29:16 57:6
37:23 46:24 entry 14:18 examined 28:7 15:21 17:8
60:24 61:4 environments examines 35:5 35:9 38:21
27:8 draws 4:7 46:6 equation 50:5 54:3,7 58:12 42:20 43:1
66:5 drug 49:3 60:23 essential 22:25 exchange 22:12 factors 42:8
54:16 55:8 folks 60:9 62:18 garb 34:3 24:8 25:5 37:15 57:16
56:12 follow 17:8 27:5 general 1:21 42:18 45:8 48:3 granted 36:9
59:8 following 40:7 17:24 18:6 24:9 48:11,16 51:24 great 26:1 40:22
62:1,4 footnote 57:15 25:12 27:20 51:25 53:10,17 greater 4:5 10:15
60:18,25 31:3 37:9,11,16 53:21,22,25 39:4 53:7
10:3 forth 25:11 56:8,21 59:21 Goldstein 1:16 guard 32:21 45:8
forward 16:8 62:14 2:3,13 3:7,8,10 guards 23:10
16:19 found 39:18 40:1 generally 8:7 4:1,13,17,20 28:4,6 40:19
40:4 53:23 57:2 10:19 24:3 5:10,19,24 6:16 guess 59:22
36:1,3 57:24 60:7,10 genital 17:12 6:20 7:14,16,22 guilty 19:7
45:13 64:3,5 genitals 9:9 17:1 7:25 8:4,14,18 gun 53:20 64:24
founding 13:5 17:13 29:19 9:1,15,24 10:1 guy 19:1
four 4:22 46:16 65:24 10:8,11,14,18 gym 11:16
39:16 Francisco's 26:10 28:20,22 19:2 20:1 21:3 16:1 36:2
60:15 29:4,24 30:8,11 21:13,23 22:4,8 happens 30:4
43:23 Freeholders 1:6 54:16 55:7,11 24:23 25:2,8,13 50:6
17:23 friends 63:23 51:15 54:12 28:15,18 29:2,9 health 33:21,23
20:1 front 3:20 10:5 60:22 29:15,19 30:3 41:24
38:14 13:14 17:15 given 35:18 30:10,14 31:4 hear 3:4
53:7 31:18 go 10:23 16:24 31:13,17 32:9 held 16:15 21:24
59:16 full 51:4 39:24 42:7 32:12,16,19,22 helpful 60:20
65:8 fundamental 45:14 51:7 51:16 62:22,23 helping 25:1
64:10 incident 57:6,9 62:12,13 28:10 judgment 5:22
incidental 41:24 inspected 8:12 investigate 5:25 6:1 36:9
21:20 incoming 54:19 inspection 9:4 18:8 judgments 58:25
64:22 increase 3:17 11:25 12:8 17:1 involves 26:14 judicial 49:12
incredibly 6:21 29:16 47:1,18 26:18 63:6 jumper 53:12
54:5 25:6 29:17 instance 23:18 issue 6:22 9:25 Justice 1:21 3:4
38:12 42:17,21 63:19 33:12 37:1 42:1 3:10,22 4:10,16
66:5 48:4 50:1 58:17 7:21,23 8:1,11
29:7 27:15 65:4,12 18:21,22 29:2 items 23:23 9:21,25 10:7,9
39:5 58:16 40:19 53:15 J 11:1,4,7 12:3
20:10,14,17,21 interest 23:22 25:4 27:2 28:4 18:7,19,25 19:2
inmate 16:14 36:12 64:16 65:21 26:20,23 27:1,4
19:14 51:15 53:11 intrusion 9:11 19:22 20:2,12 28:23 29:4,5,10
13:14,21 14:14 13:11 14:11 31:25 37:19 30:8,11 31:1,11
37:19 65:22,24 66:4 57:14 65:9,12 32:13,17,20,23
kept 18:2,3 38:5 39:12 40:1 meeting 23:4
39:10 55:19 63:10 level 17:3 52:14 64:17 members 50:7
40:3 kettle 13:18 levels 9:13 66:2 memorandum
kids 42:23 Liability 44:23 lots 61:19 63:24
killer 19:24 liable 47:4 lower 9:6 mere 5:21
43:11 kind 10:24 12:14
44:11 13:6 22:1 44:8 30:1,1,13 Lyons 16:8 metropolitan
49:18 57:7 lift 17:12,13 L.A 16:8 54:3
kinds 24:3 46:16 minimal 17:3
knew 18:9 limit 26:15 50:3 M minor 4:3,7,9 5:2
47:5 knifed 61:21 limited 58:17 magistrate 42:14 25:7,15,18,23
know 5:11 8:24 limits 26:8 49:16 42:19 43:19 26:2,13,15,18
49:16 14:17 19:23,25 49:17 major 4:3 38:13 26:19 27:8 31:6
50:8,13 24:17 25:3 27:5
51:3,8,13 27:19 35:13 10:21,24 27:10 major/minor 5:13 39:17 40:8 54:8
53:4 36:3,7 45:19 27:24 28:10,16 making 3:24 54:12 57:13
54:13,16 50:23 51:16,21 28:18,19 29:21 59:19 59:17 60:17
56:1,20 55:7 56:9 58:4 37:22 41:3 46:5 manual 37:21 62:2 64:14,21
58:6,9 58:22,24 59:10 46:24 50:20 41:11 50:3 minutes 62:22
59:24 65:23 61:4 64:25 misdemeanants
61:8,12 knowing 53:17 list 25:10 manually 41:13 39:8
62:9,10 knows 24:12 literature 9:6 Marshall 53:11 misdemeanor
63:15 56:24 Marshals 20:5 27:10 55:1
65:3 66:7 L litigation 44:10 30:22 31:7 63:8 57:22,23 64:16
38:22 language 46:4 61:15 materially 14:3 mistakes 59:23
46:11 56:7 42:13 59:2 MCC 14:23 months 51:24
laugh-out-loud look 6:24,25 7:1 23:18 morning 3:5 29:1
63:23 37:7 38:21 43:4 25:9 32:4,5 35:10 39:21,22 movement 33:7
6:6,17,21 learn 54:21 38:24 39:19 43:25 44:16 muster 58:11
8:17 19:13 left 33:8 42:9 47:22 58:4 45:16,17 58:13
28:21,23 length 9:4 34:15 65:23 60:24 N
47:25 34:18 looking 9:3,9 means 44:10 N 2:1,1 3:2
56:20 62:9 lengths 34:20,22 11:19 19:5 medical 28:4,5,7 naked 3:21 6:24
16:19 26:15 lot 34:9 38:4,19 medication 16:16 17:15 21:1
31:18 obtains 13:20 24:15 25:20,25 23:17 54:18,18 9:4,9 23:20
41:21,23 obvious 61:8 26:22,25 28:12 54:21 63:25 24:8 25:6 27:18
52:13 32:23 34:22 part 23:22 35:10 37:9,11,25 38:5
53:22 offender 25:23 once 44:1 parts 9:10 11:5 personal 58:25
38:12,13 39:17 ones 25:15,15 pat 64:25 personnel 27:2
26:19 31:6 39:7 opinion 23:17 people 4:4,8 42:18
21:7 54:10,12 55:5 51:11 19:23 21:7 30:5 37:15
45:23,23 55:20 56:13 opportunity 31:7,8 38:3 persuade 12:25
51:17 57:13 58:5 23:23 52:4,7,14 42:11,22 52:4 Petitioner 1:4,17
52:22 5:13,22 20:6 opposition 16:3 58:18,18 59:6 59:25
57:17 64:17 47:1 65:24 percent 37:20 38:24 39:11,21
15:17 43:22,23 63:7 40:21,24 41:9
official 13:15 overnight 42:13 permissible 51:5 45:25 46:3,11
35:14,22 officials 13:8 overstated 60:13 permitted 8:1,25 47:4,12,16,20
60:2 40:23 56:19 overturn 5:25 9:1 43:17 45:19 48:7,24 49:21
35:15 okay 7:14 9:14 P 3:2 perplexed 33:9 57:19
38:14 52:9,11 54:19 33:22 produce 7:6 53:5 56:14
55:3,21,25 principal 22:23 professionals 58:14,24 59:12
47:8 population 17:24 21:19 prohibits 12:16 19:19
55:4,19,23 56:4 59:21 61:5,9 prosecutor 59:1 quite 11:18
populations 30:1 protect 6:7 R 3:2
29:22 poses 38:15 41:11 49:2 protections 43:9 rap 18:23 19:3,3
40:18 position 9:22 50:17,24 55:3 Protesters 53:17 19:5,5,6,13
47:21 54:1 13:24 16:13 55:24 57:14 protocol 12:6,14 59:2
57:15,18 37:3 49:22 58:9 provide 5:23 rationale 23:1
58:13 possession 18:13 privacy 8:10 9:11 18:10 28:4
62:8 63:3 18:15 9:20 11:21 published 57:7 reach 34:21
possibly 18:4 12:21 13:13 pull 20:15 21:19 reaction 39:19
64:8 56:11 private 9:10 11:5 purpose 9:22 ready 29:7
53:19 20:8 27:9 40:7 22:19 put 24:8 27:20 really 9:7 22:6
prefer 48:4 probable 42:20 31:2 35:3 42:11 23:11 39:17,18
43:8 presence 8:3,4 problem 7:6 10:2 56:5 62:14 60:15,18 64:1
16:5,10 presented 4:7 30:17 32:11,14 reason 14:12
24:13 42:19 43:18 34:16 35:10 Q 21:3 22:23 45:1
pressed 50:6 46:4 49:1,13,14 qualified 26:11 61:22
32:2,8,9 presumption 50:25 51:22 question 4:7,14 reasonable 3:13
43:15 60:13 5:11 10:2 11:11 3:23 4:6,10,25
40:4,4 pretrial 14:7,18 problems 40:14 11:22 13:18,24 5:14,23 6:10,23
51:17 54:19 procedures 16:9 25:21 26:1 7:1,18 8:5,9,21
12:10,13 47:10 return 17:4 25:16,17,24 22:5,14,17
15:2,11 remainder 29:23 reversed 35:20 26:1,2,6,7,10 27:16,24 28:9
31:10 36:13 55:11 26:12,19 27:6 28:16 34:20
17:17 remains 47:5,12 right 6:16 9:21 30:21 31:9 37:7 46:21,25 47:5
19:11 remember 6:22 10:20 11:19,20 38:22 40:10 47:14,17 50:8
7:5 11:13 18:2 15:10,10 16:6 41:6,7 42:15 50:13,15
22:25 20:2,19 21:15 16:25 22:9,11 43:5 48:20 scenarios 8:15
23:3 24:1 36:8 24:25 25:13 50:24 54:7,17 Schneckloth
31:24 report 19:18 26:17,20 30:3,4 55:20 59:13,23 22:10
37:4,13 reported 57:11 32:22 34:10,21 60:24 62:17 school 29:25
40:8 reports 57:6 34:25 35:2,4,7 64:10,19 65:5 schools 11:15
44:14 represent 43:10 35:11,24 37:5 rules 39:14 score 46:9
48:20 66:3 41:8,16 42:16 Rutherford search 3:13 5:9
51:1 54:24 representation 43:16 44:18 49:13 7:7,8,24 8:9
57:25 23:5 45:1,5,23,25 9:23 10:24 11:2
63:12,20 reprise 11:14 46:15,19 47:4 S 11:8,12 12:6,19
65:4,7 require 3:19 9:18 47:16,20 51:20 S 2:1 3:2 13:7,21 14:6,9
58:14 30:19 32:1 risk 6:9 59:17 Safford 9:7 11:14 15:1,3,6,9,20
61:17 required 12:7 risky 44:4 42:6 43:6 50:22 21:12 23:21
62:23 30:9 32:4 47:7 ROBERTS 3:4 2:9 52:21,22,25 27:18,25 28:5
38:10 54:19 32:7,10,13,17 60:6 61:2,11,17 37:21 41:12
18:1,14 reserve 29:22 34:11,24 35:2,5 San 39:14 57:20 44:13,16 45:4
21:9,10 31:10 35:12 44:11,18 58:1 60:15 45:10 46:2,9,18
47:25 respect 5:2,5 44:21,24 45:3,6 saying 15:18 46:20 48:11
57:13 15:25 25:18 45:12,21 46:1 20:18 24:6,21 49:18 50:3
59:18 26:19 32:18 46:12,17 52:20 26:14,16 29:15 53:23 55:6,13
63:18 64:7 38:10 44:13,22 56:1 62:21 66:7 41:11 48:9 51:3 55:16 56:4,16
1:19,23 2:7,11 roughly 48:21 65:17,24 21:25 33:19
responsibility 7:7,8,12,12,13 45:12 48:10 searches 10:3
58:17 59:2 sneak 23:8 63:9,12,21 64:6 57:4
show 19:4 39:19 Solicitor 1:21 64:11,19 65:5 study 57:8 58:1
22:13,22 65:2 34:17 38:12 43:22 stuff 54:12 61:6
63:14 showed 24:2 39:16 41:22 standing 8:16,22 subject 9:2 42:5
10:10,13 11:17 65:19 stands 10:4 55:12 63:12
41:23 60:1 56:25 state 18:16 19:20 submitted 66:8
62:18 showers 65:25 56:1 62:10 States 1:1,13,22 successful 40:5,9
27:18 shows 18:15 34:18 36:25 39:13 48:19,22 30:18,18
46:3 51:18 52:1 52:23 63:2,3 suggest 41:19
60:22 side 39:15,15 Sotomayor 9:12 64:16 suggesting 9:13
66:4 37:21 40:3,12 stop 18:17 supporting 1:23
27:25 simple 14:25 41:5,10,14,15 52:17 53:19 suppose 12:13
61:23 32:18 45:4,10 42:7,25 43:11 stopping 24:11 16:13 38:3
55:19 simplest 61:9 58:6,9,23 stories 38:1 supposed 27:5
simply 42:4 so-called 17:12 strength 60:13 31:23 61:3
5:6 7:3 singled 62:18 speeding 52:17 6:24 7:7,8,23 sure 7:11 20:1
27:12 sir 62:25 split 47:23 7:24 12:19 13:3 21:13 22:14
49:3 situation 53:14 spot 52:6 13:7,21 14:22 26:25 28:1
57:13 Six 63:11 spread 16:17 14:25 17:15,18 44:17 56:1
skimpy 57:1 squad 53:19 20:25 21:11,25 64:23
31:7 63:8 23:16 46:19 46:16 60:10 30:19 32:1,18 surprised 56:22
57:23 60:4 31:18 45:14 56:16 suspicion 3:14
66:3 57:25 58:10,11 studies 40:18 15:12,16,18,20
17:3,17 40:2 62:23 61:13 2:10 29:6 52:23
19:12 testimony 10:5 thought 3:23 trying 6:7 13:9 63:2,3 64:16
12:2,6 28:3 12:22 19:14 26:5,7 47:21 unreasonable
24:7,19 29:3 30:6 38:25 24:6 26:16 60:14 12:20 56:17
26:3 39:1,2 48:8,24 44:11,12 57:1 turn 11:11 unsettling 42:21
31:24 Thank 32:23 thousand 31:6 Turner 14:2 41:3 unsure 10:9
37:4,13 33:2 52:19,20 63:11 42:6 43:6 50:21 upheld 53:4
40:8 62:21,25 66:6,7 threat 66:3 two 8:14 10:18 urge 62:19
45:9,24 theory 35:25 three 3:15 9:13 13:2 17:22 18:4 use 18:8,8,25
49:6 thing 25:14 30:11 27:6 63:1 22:4 34:20,22 25:12
55:18 45:7 48:13 58:3 throw 60:14 38:14 47:14 U.S 4:2 30:22
58:10 61:9 65:17 64:1 31:5
64:6 things 8:2 13:2 ticket 48:2 52:17 type 20:13 55:16
65:4,7 25:4 34:6 42:22 tickets 38:4 57:4 V
55:9 56:12 64:1 time 6:13 12:17 57:5 14:1,2,6 16:8
59:8 think 4:4,4 5:10 12:22 13:5 22:10,24 36:16
5:25 6:1,21 9:7 14:23 16:10 U 39:25 41:3,18
10:2 11:1 18:5 21:9 29:23 Ultimately 7:12 42:6,6 43:6,6
23:16 27:13 29:20 tip 49:25 undergird 41:2 variation 48:20
35:3 30:15 33:5,15 today 3:18 13:20 undergone 55:6 various 8:2
62:22 33:17 37:3,12 21:15,21 40:15 underlying 22:23 version 36:6
54:23 42:25 43:4 44:1 toughest 39:15 37:3 40:17 43:4 view 4:13,15,16
45:9,17,18 46:6 traffic 18:17 43:24 44:22 5:15 20:2 49:17
53:21 57:11,25 61:14 understanding violation 47:9
thinking 42:10 true 5:1 24:3 undress 11:17 violent 5:22
Third 55:21 59:5 26:23 visit 22:1 23:6,7
58:13 64:8 try 11:10 23:8 64:10 visitor 51:14
40:20 19:10 64:23 year 30:23,25 30 49:15 54:21
weapons 56:24 31:7,8 63:5,9 60:16
15:1,2,5 Wednesday 1:10 years 19:16 348a 39:3
35:14 weight 62:6 49:15 58:7,7 384,000 30:25
44:13,25 weren't 37:15 York 51:17 390 17:16
54:20 we'll 3:4 25:21
31:11 Z 4
48:11 54:22 1 48 19:17 28:24
62:15 1 16:4 54:18,18
27:15
16:4 17:4 willing 55:15 11:05 66:9 52 2:10
27:1 28:1 wire 19:17 12 1:10 559 23:17
43:21 wiretap 19:17 14 64:3,4
Wolfish 3:16 15 57:15
18:3 42:14
50:8,11 7:20 14:1,6 1978 40:15
48:3
55:7 61:21 36:16 39:25
60 60:16
30:7 2 3:20 8:22 9:14 600,000 31:8
50:20 63:4,8
62 2:14
64:20
45:14 65:23
2003 62:6
35:8 43:17 24-hour 28:25
45:17,18 wrong 19:15 21:7 25,000 64:5
50:19 25,175 64:2
44:9
54:9 26,000 63:18
56:17
X
2:4 10:3 16:4
