IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
STEVEN ALAN LEVIN, :
Petitioner : No. 11-1351
v. :
UNITED STATES, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, January 15, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:07 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; appointed by
this Court, on behalf of Petitioner.
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
on behalf of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 58
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:07 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 11-1351, Levin v. United
States.
Mr. Feldman?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. FELDMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FELDMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
As the language and structure of the
Gonzalez Act demonstrate, Congress did not completely
eliminate the long-recognized tort remedy that's
available to essentially everybody else in the country
when doctors perform surgery without a patient's
consent.
By abrogating the intentional tort exception
to the FTCA for the class of cases covered by the
Gonzalez Act, Congress both preserved a remedy for the
victims of that tort, and, by virtue of the Gonzalez
Act's exclusive remedy provision, they made certain that
the Federal employees themselves would not be sued.
As everyone understood at the time of the
enactment, that was the meaning of the terms of the
Gonzalez Act. The Act has two clauses, an operative
clause and an introductory clause.
The operative clause says, in simple
declarative terms, that the intentional tort exception
to the Federal Tort Claims Act shall not apply to any
cause of action arising out of a wrongful act or
omission in the performance of medical functions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Feldman, but it says,
first, "for purposes of this section." And, as I -- I
understand your argument, those words don't count. In
other words, you would be making -- you would interpret
the statute the same way if the sentence started with
"the provisions of Section 2680(h)."
MR. FELDMAN: No, Your Honor. That's not
right. We -- we -- that -- that -- the part after the
introductory clause says, "The provisions of the
intentional tort exception shall not apply to medical
malpractice cases." And that would make it apply across
the government to any government employee who is
performing those medical functions.
By saying, "for purposes of this section,"
Congress limited it in accordance with the case -- the
agency by agency approach that it had adopted in this
area and limited it to just the cases that are covered
by the Gonzalez Act; that is, by malpractice that's
committed by doctors of the Department of Defense, the
National Guard, the Armed Forces Retirement Home, and so
on.
And so the -- each clause serves quite an
important function. Congress had before the Gonzalez
Act -- they had already passed the statutes dealing, for
example, with the Public Health Service that's
essentially written in the same terms, with the Veterans
Administration -- although part of that was then added
later -- with the State Department doctors, and so on.
And so they were proceeding on an agency by
agency basis, and the way to accomplish that was to
first say, we -- we think that the intentional tort
exception should not apply to these cases because in
medical batteries of the sort that we -- as alleged in
this case, are so close to the kinds of medical
malpractice cases that are going to be brought against
the government anyhow.
But then, in each statute, they say, "for
purposes of this section," because it's only the
agencies, only the personnel covered by those sections,
and the torts covered by those sections.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Veterans
Administration, it doesn't say that, does it?
MR. FELDMAN: The Veterans --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. FELDMAN: The Veterans Administration,
originally -- the original Veterans Administration
statute, which was from about 1965, doesn't have this
1089(e) intentional tort exception at all in it.
But then they added it later, about 10 years
after this statute, and then they added a provision that
was slightly worded differently, but it achieves exactly
the same result. Instead of saying, "for purposes of
this section," it says, "by the personnel named in
Section A," which accomplishes exactly the same thing.
And, actually, if you look at the history of
that statute, the Senate report on that statute, quite
clearly, recites that Congress understood that 1089(e),
the statute here, has exactly the effect that I said.
And they said, we are modeling it on that provision.
And then they did tinker with the wording, and there's
actually no explanation for the specific change.
But it's not uncommon that, in statutes that
have been reviewed by different committees and passed 10
or 12 years apart, that Congress would have a -- they
would use slightly different language to achieve,
essentially, the same purpose.
JUSTICE BREYER: What would -- what do you
do, if anything, about those of us -- I hope more than
one -- who actually look at legislative history, and the
House and Senate Report -- the Senate Report says
Subsection (e) would nullify a provision of the Tort
Claims Act, which would otherwise exclude any action for
assault and battery, then the House says about the same
thing.
So, when I look at those two things, I think
the purpose of this Act was to do just exactly what the
other side says, it was to get rid of assault and
battery as an exception and said the government of the
United States will pay for unlawful assault and battery.
That's what the two reports say. That's why
they passed it.
MR. FELDMAN: Right. I believe, actually,
that's our -- that -- that's the way we read it, exactly
like that, which is the -- by nullifying the intentional
tort exception -- what the intentional tort exception
provides is -- actually, what it says, is, "The
provisions of the Federal Tort Claims Act shall not
apply to any case arising out of assault, battery," and
so on.
And, by eliminating that, the -- the
provisions of the Federal Tort Claims Act are otherwise
totally applicable to cases of medical battery, like
this, or other kinds of intentional tort.
And so, for cases, covered by the Gonzalez
Act -- that is, cases of medical malpractice committed
within the scope of employment by the doctors of the
certain specified agencies that Congress has named --
for those cases, there is no intentional tort exception,
and, therefore, you can bring an action against the
government.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't quite
understand your answer to Justice Ginsburg on the "for
purposes of this section."
What the section does is provide that the
remedy against the United States is exclusive. But what
the 1089(e) goes on to say is that the 26 -- the 2680(h)
provision doesn't apply. So I don't see how that -- I
mean, the -- the reference is to the exclusivity, not to
the waiver of the limitation on -- on intentional torts.
MR. FELDMAN: Well, I don't think that
that's right. I mean, I think, for purposes of this
section, you have to read it in context. And the fact
is that 2680 -- the term "2680(h) of Title 28" doesn't
appear elsewhere in the Gonzales Act.
The only work that that provision does in
the law, section -- the intentional tort exception,
2680(h) of Title 28, the only work that that does is to
make the -- is in the Federal Tort Claims Act, is to
make the -- the Act inapplicable to those kinds of
cases.
So when they say, in simple terms, that
shall not apply, all that could mean -- all that could
possibly mean is you eliminate that, and then you have
the Tort Claims Act how it is. And then what the four
purposes of this section does is say, but we're not
doing that across the board for every Federal employee
everywhere or even every malpractice case. We are just
doing it for the claims that are covered -- for the
cases that are covered in this section -- for purposes
of this section.
In this section, if you look at (a), then,
(a), which is the -- you know, basic exclusive remedy
provision that Your Honor mentioned, what (a) does is
deal specifically with -- intent with medical
malpractice committed by doctors and personnel.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, one of the
strongest arguments by your adversary has to do with the
incongruity between these claims and the Westfall ruling
by this Court. It's more a policy argument than a
language argument, but how do you address the fact that
we will be interpreting, essentially, two statutes that
are almost identical, but with different conclusions now, if
we were to adopt your view.
MR. FELDMAN: Right. I -- I think there
are -- there are a few reasons why the statutes have to
be construed differently. I mean, one is that, if you
look at the Court's decision in Smith, where it
construed that provision of the Westfall Act, it -- the
Court never suggested that the language -- the part of
the Westfall Act whose language is the same as this
supported its conclusion there. It was relying on other
provisions in the Westfall Act.
In particular, there was a provision that
said, "Once the government substitutes itself for the
defendant, the case shall proceed, subject to all the
exceptions and limitations in the Tort Claims Act." And
the Court said, well, yes, that -- that gives us a clear
understanding that, whether there's exceptions or not,
we want that case to proceed -- to proceed. That
provision isn't here in the Gonzalez Act.
And there was another provision in the
Westfall Act -- in the Smith case, in the Westfall Act,
that dealt with making a specific exception for Bivens
cases. And, again, that provision isn't here. And
that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But why -- why would
Congress want to treat them differently?
MR. FELDMAN: Right. I think the reason is,
when they were dealing in this case with this area in
1976, they were dealing with a specific problem of
medical malpractice, and they were looking at that --
that problem, doctors, doctors had to get insurance,
what are we going to do about that for Federal
employees?
And they were -- when they focused on that
problem -- actually, as the Executive Branch itself said
in a letter that was sent to the Senate committee, it
said there's an urgent need, both, to assure adequate
remedies for tort victims and to protect Federal
employees.
And that's what they were trying to do here,
and I think you see it throughout the Gonzalez Act.
But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But why -- why did they
feel the need here to assure adequate remedies for tort
victims, where they did not in -- in the Westfall Act?
MR. FELDMAN: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean -- you know, injured
tort victims are injured tort victims. It does seem --
you know, rather odd that, in -- in one instance,
Congress would be concerned and, the other, not
concerned.
MR. FELDMAN: Right. I think the difference
is that, here, they were dealing specifically with the
problem of medical malpractice. 12 years later, when
they got around to the Westfall Act, they weren't
looking at medical malpractice.
They were looking, generally, at a whole --
the whole problem of government employees being sued
after this Court's decision in the Westfall case, a
problem that particularly affected, actually, lower
level government employees who were -- it's clear,
couldn't take advantage of the discretionary function
exception.
And, when they are looking at the broad
universe of employees, they took a different approach
and decided, well, we're just going to -- some people
are just going to be out of luck because this is the --
the determination that Congress made -- felt was
appropriate there.
But, when it was looking at the specific
problem of medical malpractice in the Gonzalez Act, it
definitely took the position, as everybody said at the
time and as the structure of the Act itself showed, that
they wanted to preserve remedies. And there are two
provisions in the Westfall Act that make that clear --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, maybe we could address
this in slightly more concrete terms. You have two --
two situations. In one case, a Federal employee who's
driving a car deliberately runs somebody down. And, in
the second case, a government doctor grabs somebody who
doesn't want an operation and performs the operation
anyway.
Now, as -- under your reading, there
would -- there would be a claim against the government
in the second situation, but not in the first situation;
is that right?
MR. FELDMAN: That -- that's correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why would Congress want
that?
MR. FELDMAN: The reason they'd want it is
this: In the first situation, that -- that really
arose -- that -- that problem came with the Tort Claims
Act when it was first enacted in 1946. And, when
Congress was looking at the universe of Federal
employees, they felt -- and, especially, given the law
at that time and that continued really up to the
present, that, when a Federal employee or average
Federal employee, for the types of intentional torts
that they commit, especially a battery, it's
extraordinarily unlikely that that's going to be within
that scope of that employee's employment.
And Congress felt, well, we want to just
eliminate that altogether. It's not just to hold the
government responsible for that kind of a claim, when
some Federal clerk slugs someone or something like that,
and that was the determination they made.
When they got around to 1976, to dealing
with the particular problem of medical malpractice,
the -- it doesn't actually usually happen -- these kinds
of claims don't arise -- I'm not aware of anywhere a
doctor just grabs somebody and throws him, physically,
into the operating room. They happen when the doctor is
performing some procedure and performs a different
procedure or a procedure that was not authorized by the
patient.
And that -- that is very closely related to
core medical malpractice claims of exactly the sort that
they were dealing with here. It's very closely related
to informed consent claims, which I believe the
government -- I read the government to be conceding,
could be brought against the government.
And they thought there was no reason to
distinguish -- to distinguish one type of medical
malpractice from another. We want all of these claims,
we want to provide a remedy, and they all should be
brought against the government.
I would add one other --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In law review commentaries
and maybe in lower courts' opinion, is there -- is it
fair to say that the weight of authority is to criticize
the battery-negligence distinction as being productive
of litigation and not really making a lot of sense?
MR. FELDMAN: I think that is fair to say,
and -- you know, States -- a lot of States have dealt
with this by dealing with -- in statutory -- in
statutes, not in common law development, so they
could kind of rationalize the system and say, look, this
is the kinds of claims you're going to have.
But the key thing is that everybody in the
country, I think, under every State's law, if a doctor
performs an operation that you didn't consent to, you
have an action in tort. And that protects both you and
provides an incentive -- an important incentive, to
doctors and medical personnel, to be sure that they are
only doing what they are authorized to do.
There is not a hint that, when Congress was
dealing with the Westfall Act -- I keep saying, "the
Westfall Act" -- when Congress was dealing with the
Gonzalez Act, there is not a hint that they were trying
there to say, well, we want to save money or something
by eliminating those kind of very, very traditional tort
claims from those victims, and we don't want those
people to have compensation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Feldman, do I
understand the mechanics of this right, that, if the
injured person sued the United States directly, that
suit would fail because the battery exclusion would
apply, but it's only by suing the officer -- the doctor
and then getting the United States substituted that the
battery exception is abrogated; is that right?
MR. FELDMAN: No, I don't -- I don't believe
that that's correct. There is nothing in this Act that
says it should make any difference. There is nothing,
certainly, in Subsection (e) or anywhere else in the Act
that says it should make any difference, whether you are
suing the government or suing the -- or suing the -- or
suing the doctor. If you sue the government, the
government says, well, we have a defense that the
intentional tort exception applies.
You would say, no, it says here, for
purposes of this section, the intentional tort exception
does not apply. And what that means, "for the purposes
of this section," is for claims that are covered by this
Act, which is claims that are medical tort claims
brought against personnel of the affected agencies who
are acting within the scope of their authority.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are there any -- I'm
sorry.
Are there any other tort claims besides the
lack of consent battery claim at issue here that could
be encompassed by the Intentional Tort Act, as it
relates to medical malpractice?
Let's assume that it's not an operation, but
sexual behavior with a patient in their hospital room,
something of that nature.
Is that covered under the Gonzalez Act, as a
claim against the United States?
MR. FELDMAN: If it would be an assault or
battery that was committed by -- within the scope of the
professional's employment, then it would be. But it's
always the question of whether it's within the scope of
employment.
And I think, usually, the -- the case law --
I mean, I think, usually, the cases are that a doctor
who commits a sexual assault on a patient or something
is not acting within -- in the kind of circumstances you
are talking about, is not acting within the scope of
employment.
But that would be a case-by-case
determination. There might be some kind of case
where -- you know, it would depend on the facts of the
case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This exception you're --
you're talking about is regularly applied in the lower
courts?
MR. FELDMAN: What -- I beg your pardon?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In the lower courts,
this determination is regularly made?
MR. FELDMAN: The -- the scope of employment
determination is made every day because that is made --
that is applicable throughout, in any kind of respondeat
superior situation, whenever the employer of the medical
professional is sued and that kind of thing -- or -- or
nonmedical professional, for that matter. That --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, when the
government removes the case, it concedes that point,
doesn't it, normally? Where a case is removed from
State court, the government -- the Attorney General must
certify that it was within the scope of employment, no?
MR. FELDMAN: That's correct. That's
correct. And that is actually one of the two -- one of
two of the key provisions of the Act, that kind of
establish -- that could make it very clear that what
Congress was trying to do was preserve remedies because,
in that very provision, after it talks about removing
when the Attorney General has certified that it's within
the scope of employment, it says, "The case can be
remanded if the removed case is one such that" there --
"that no remedy against the United States is available."
And what that shows is that Congress knew
that there would be actions that would continue to be
brought against doctors. And they actually wanted to
provide for that, right there, and say it should be --
those should be remanded to State court, and then they
will proceed against the doctor in State court.
Then there is -- so that there would be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What was that case, where
no action against the United States is available?
MR. FELDMAN: That would be a case, for
example --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not -- not by reason of
the -- of the battery?
MR. FELDMAN: No, it wouldn't be -- if
Congress didn't have this provision in the statute --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand.
MR. FELDMAN: -- it would have been by
reason -- that would have been.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, yes.
MR. FELDMAN: Another one would be a foreign
tort, which is also another exception under the Tort
Claims Act --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I see.
MR. FELDMAN: -- a discretionary function
case, and there are some in the medical context.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I got you.
MR. FELDMAN: Or one of the other
exceptions. All of those exception cases, they go on.
They go on, and Congress -- Congress could have closed
all of them down.
And, in fact, if Congress was worried that
there would be -- really, if their sole purpose here was
to say, we don't want any actions to be brought against
Federal employees, they should -- they could have just
said, we don't want any actions to be brought against
Federal employees. But, instead, they are providing for
what happens and for the continuation of the action
against the doctor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Now, the government has an
alternative interpretation, and I know you think it's
wrong. But would you go further and say that it's not a
plausible interpretation?
MR. FELDMAN: I would. I think that
because, as the court -- when the courts used -- you
know, a number of different formulations to -- to talk
about that -- I think you are referring to a kind of
strict construction rule that -- that applies to waivers
of sovereign immunity, which we don't think is
applicable here.
But, even where that rule does apply,
really, the question is, is it a reasonable degree of
clarity that Congress intended to waive immunity? Is it
-- as the Court has said, is it clearly discernible from
a fair reading of the statute that they intended to
waive?
And it has to be clear, and I think it is
clear here. And that was what everybody at the time of
the statute thought. It's what the government itself
thought up through the time of the -- of the Smith case,
15 --
JUSTICE ALITO: But was the
interpretation adopted by the district court and by the
Ninth Circuit, but you still say is implausible.
MR. FELDMAN: I think so. I would add
that -- I am not here to defend the Ninth Circuit's
judgment, but I would add that they had a pro se
litigant before them, and I don't think they had access
to the full degree of presentation that they might have
had, if -- if it had been more fully developed.
But I do think that, when the Court is
making that determination of what's clearly discernible
from a fair reading of the statute, the Court has also
made it clear, though, that what you don't do is take
each word in the statute and say, we're going to take
the most pro-government meaning of this word, and then
you add them altogether.
What you do is you look at the statute as a
whole, you look at the context of the statute, you look
at the structure of the statute, and then you say what
is plausible, what is clearly discernible from a fair
reading.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Feldman, when the
Westfall Act, which doesn't abrogate the intentional
tort provision, when that was passed, why -- was there
any reason why Congress kept these five or six separate
acts, like the Gonzalez Act, instead of saying, well, we
did this piecemeal for particular agencies, and, now, we
we're dealing with Federal employees across the board, so
there is no reason why we should have these five or six
that go another way?
MR. FELDMAN: Well, I can give you the
answer that the government gave in its brief in Smith,
which is the Gonzalez Act and the other four or five
statutes continue to serve two -- at least two vital
functions, and one is specifically this: That they
eliminate the -- the intentional tort exception and,
therefore, allow relief for victims of intentional tort
in this medical malpractice context, just like victims
of other kinds of malpractice.
The other thing is there are some cases, for
instance, foreign torts, where there is another
provision of the Gonzalez Act, 1089(f), that provides
for indemnifying or holding harmless doctors, when
judgments are against them in certain -- when there's a
foreign tort, when the doctor has been detailed to a
non-Federal agency, or if the circumstances are such as
are likely to preclude a remedy under the Tort Claims
Act.
So, again, Congress in that -- that
provision remains important because there could be a
foreign judgment against the doctor or something, even
after the Westfall Act, and that would -- that gives the
authority to reimburse the doctor, if the agency
determines that -- that that's appropriate.
But that provision also shows that Congress
intended that to preserve remedies here because it would
have made no sense for Congress to say, we want to
provide for the indemnification or reimbursement of the
doctor, if what they really were trying to do was
eliminate all the cases against doctors.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Feldman, is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It -- it --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's right on the same
thing, so I -- that provision ends -- and I am
strengthening you -- your last point -- that provision
ends, "if the circumstances are such as are likely to
preclude the remedies of third persons against the
United States described in Section 1346(b) of Title 28."
That clearly envisions that, in the ordinary
case, those remedies against the United States would not
be precluded.
MR. FELDMAN: That's right. And the -- and
the choice that Congress had -- had here, really, was
between taking intentional tort cases and allowing them
to be continued to be brought against doctors and then
subject to this kind of reimbursement provision, which
they had provided for, or saying, no, we want these to
just be brought against the government and to protect
the Federal employees much more fully. And so that was
the purpose of 1089(e).
They said, we want to steer this into the
same channel that all the other malpractice actions are
going into.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Feldman, as I understand
your argument and -- and the differences that you have
with the government, you have one set of differences
about the meaning of 1089(e), but then another set about
this question of, if it were true that the government
was immune from suit, could you bring a tort suit
against the doctors?
And the government said -- says no. And you
say, yes, you might be able to do that. But do you have
to answer that question, at all, in order to say that
you're correct on 1089(e)?
MR. FELDMAN: No. I mean, that's -- that
question isn't at issue in this case. That would really
only be directly at issue if somebody brought a suit
against the doctor. But --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So there is a lot of going
back and forth about this question of what would happen
if the government were immune, would the individual
doctor be immune? But that is, essentially, irrelevant
to the question before us; is that correct?
MR. FELDMAN: I -- I just wouldn't say it's
irrelevant because what the -- the provisions that I
have been talking about show is that Congress --
Congress was not trying, in this Act, unlike in the
Westfall Act, which doesn't have either of these two
provisions, the reimbursement and remand provision that
I've talked about -- unlike in the Westfall Act,
Congress wasn't trying to save money or other -- do
something else by just eliminating remedies for victims.
It was trying to -- as the Executive Branch
said, as I said, to assure remedies for all tort victims
and to protect doctors in a variety of different ways.
And given that that's what they were trying to do in the
Gonzalez Act, which is clear from the structure, that
also helps clarify what 1080 -- or makes more clear what
1089(e) means.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Saying it a different way, I
don't have to accept your broader argument; I can remain
ambivalent about your broader argument and still accept
your narrower argument.
MR. FELDMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Is that correct?
MR. FELDMAN: Yes. That is correct.
I would add that, with respect to the strict
construction standard, I don't think it does apply in --
in this context. The Court has never applied it in the
Federal Tort Claims Act context. In the Gonzalez Act,
1089(e), specifically, refers to the Federal Tort Claims
Act. It says, "Section 2680(h) of Title 28."
Each of the other provisions of the Gonzalez
Act, for their operation, also depend on the Federal
Tort Claims Act. The exclusive remedy provision talks
about the Tort Claims Act. The reimbursement provision,
the remand version, each of them -- the whole statute is
really part of the Federal Tort Claims Act machinery.
And, when Congress invoked that machinery
here, I think it knew and I think it was consistent with
this Court's precedents that the Court applied the same
rule that it applied in the Dolan case, which is
construing the words in accordance with their reason and
normal tools of statutory construction, without a strict
construction rule.
Although, as I said, I do think that it is
clear what the meaning of -- of the provision is, if
they do -- you do apply the rule.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Feldman.
Mr. Shah?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PRATIK A. SHAH
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. SHAH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Subsection (e) of the Gonzalez Act states,
in pertinent part, that, "For purposes of this section,"
which refers to the Gonzales Act, "the FTCA's
intentional tort exception shall not apply."
The question in this case is whether those
words unequivocally waive sovereign immunity for medical
battery claims like Petitioner's. The answer is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the
"unequivocally" -- we have a lot of cases that say you
don't get -- you certainly get the benefit of the
"unequivocally" standard, when you are talking about a
waiver of sovereign immunity in the first instance, but
you don't keep getting the benefit over and over again
when you are talking about, as in this case, an
exception to an exception to an exception.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I think the --
the canon actually applies most strongly in this set of
circumstances. And let me talk about Dolan and the line
of cases which recognizes a very narrow exception to the
normal presumption against waivers of sovereign
immunity.
Dolan and the -- and its predecessor cases
recognize that the narrow exception to the canon, when
construing the scope of exceptions that were enacted
alongside the broad waiver of sovereign immunity in the
FTCA itself. And the purpose of drawing that exception
to the canon was it didn't want -- the Court didn't want
to defeat Congress's purpose as manifest in the broad
waiver itself.
Those exceptions were cutting back on the
contemporaneous waiver of sovereign immunity. The Court
said, we don't want to cut back, given the uniquely
broad waiver that the FTCA enacts. It's a narrow rule
exception limited to those circumstances that hasn't
been applied outside those circumstances.
Unlike those cases, this case is not
construing the scope of an exception that was enacted
alongside the FTCA that was trying to cut back on the
waiver of sovereign immunity.
To put it more concretely, on the day before
the Gonzalez Act was enacted, there was no question that
sovereign immunity barred the type of claim at issue;
that is, no one had any dispute that the FTCA's baseline
of sovereign immunity applied and would have blocked
this claim.
The question is whether --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that was
because, at that point, there was an exception to the
exception of sovereign immunity.
MR. SHAH: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you're going
even a step further, to say you get the benefit of the
unequivocal test that you've set forth at even the next
stage.
MR. SHAH: Here's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, you've already --
you've already used up your benefit of an unequivocal
requirement when you've got the interpretation of the
FTCA itself, which is the waiver of sovereign immunity.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, we haven't used
it up because of the scope of interpreting Section
2680(h). You wouldn't apply the waiver because of the
exception that was enacted in Dolan. That's Dolan
itself. If we were just talking about construing the
scope of Section 2680(h) itself, I would agree
completely with you.
What we have here is, some years later, we
have a baseline of sovereign immunity. Everyone agrees
that the FTCA and its exceptions have struck the
appropriate balance.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Wait a minute. You
agree with me that you don't get the benefit of your
higher standard of interpretation with respect to
2680(h)?
MR. SHAH: With respect to the terms of
2680(h) as enacted at that time. The difference --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But then the -- then
the heightened standard of use sort of resurrects again,
when you get to considering an exception to 2680(h).
MR. SHAH: The reason, Your Honor, is that
you have a baseline of sovereign immunity. What 26 --
in order for -- for the other side to prevail, Section
1089(e) has to waive sovereign immunity.
It has to -- it has to enact a new waiver of
sovereign immunity that, undisputedly, applied the day
before the Gonzalez Act. That is when the canon should
apply most strongly, when -- when the other side is
saying that Congress --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What do you need more
clear than "(h) doesn't apply"?
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, I don't know how
much clearer Congress has to get than to say it's
nullified.
MR. SHAH: Sure.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What more does it have
to say; the exception doesn't apply, and then what's
left?
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, if all it said is
that the intentional tort exception does not apply, I
would agree with you, that that would be enough. And
that's exactly what Congress said in the 1988 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it didn't -- it didn't
want to say it shall not apply for everything. It
didn't want to eliminate the intentional tort exception
for everybody, right? It only wanted to eliminate it
for the people covered by -- by the Gonzalez Act.
MR. SHAH: That -- that may well be true,
and Congress, when it enacted the 1988 VA Act, did it in
the most direct way. It said, "The intentional tort
exception shall not apply with respect to personnel
employed by the VA." But it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It might have said that,
but, if it wanted to be more parsimonious in its
language, it could simply say for purposes of this
section.
MR. SHAH: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which section applies only
to these particular individuals.
MR. SHAH: Justice Scalia, I think it might
be helpful to take a step back. We have four statutes
starting in 1965, then 1976. The Gonzalez Act was part
of that chain. All four statutes in this relevant
subsection, the analogue, the Subsection (e) here, said,
"For purposes of this section, the intentional tort
exception shall not apply."
Then we get to 1988, the last one in the
line, which is the VA amendment. It changes that
language. It eliminates that opening proviso for
purposes of this section. The legislative history
accompanying it says, look, we want to allow intentional
tort remedies for veterans.
It does so -- the only reason I can conceive
of that Congress would have done it is because it didn't
think that the prior four model statutes did it clearly
enough. And I think that is the reason. And -- and if
we were in a normal statutory --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It was a -- it was a
different Congress. They don't always use the same
language. Come on.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, they used the
identical language --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're -- you're lucky they
even remember the earlier statutes.
(Laughter.)
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, they use the
identical language in every other provision of that
statute. They made an affirmative decision to change
the language of Subsection (e). Now, if this were an
ordinary --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, what do you do with
Justice Breyer's point -- or with your adversary's
point? I know you'll tell us don't look at the
Congressional Record because it suits you right now,
because when it doesn't, you point to it extensively.
But what do you do with the Veterans Act
record that says, we are modeling ourselves after the
Gonzalez Act, including its nullification of the
intentional tort?
MR. SHAH: Well -- well, Your Honor, it said
the first part. It did not say the second part. There
is nothing in that legislative history that says it
is -- it thought 1089(e) nullified the intentional tort
exception. It says it's patterned after the Gonzalez
Act, and then it changed the main language, the opening
proviso of that provision.
Now, if this were an ordinary case of
statutory interpretation, this Court would have to
figure out whether, by changing that language, did
Congress just want to tinker with the language to
clarify its intent? Did it intend to have a dispositive
change by making that change in language?
But this is not an ordinary case of
statutory interpretation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, listen, I -- you
know, I don't -- I don't much care about legislative
history, but -- but, if I did --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- I wouldn't think that --
that you would say it is patterned after another Act,
where you change a very basic provision, whether suit
can be brought against the United States or not.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, it is
patterned --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, that's sort of
rudimentary and fundamental to it. It doesn't seem to
me they would say it's patterned after it. But -- you
know, I -- I don't care.
(Laughter.)
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, it is patterned
in the sense it does use the operative language. It
takes out the key opening proviso, which is the entire
dispute in this case.
But legislative history, while it might be
important if this were a normal statutory interpretation
case, this Court has said, time and time again, you
cannot look to the legislative history to supply an
unequivocal waiver that is not present in the text
itself.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, let's go back to the
text then, Mr. Shah. As I understand your argument, it
goes something like this: This provision is there to --
to prevent people from drawing a mistaken inference.
And the inference would be that the doctors were liable
because the government was not. Now, there are a
thousand ways to do that pretty clearly.
You could just say, irrespective of whether
the government is liable, the doctors are not -- or some
such thing.
MR. SHAH: Sure.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, instead, what Congress
did was it enacted a kind of "let's pretend" provision,
right? Let's pretend that the government is liable, so
then the inference won't arise. Now, that has to be not
just not the best way of achieving Congress's objective;
it has to be the worst, right, because, then, you're
raising the inference that in fact the government is
liable.
Why would Congress have wanted to do that?
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I agree with
you, Congress could have written this provision in a
different way and more clear ways, but I think it's
helpful --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm saying something more
than that.
MR. SHAH: Sure.
JUSTICE KAGAN: It could not have written it
in a worse way.
(Laughter.)
MR. SHAH: Well, I would disagree with that.
But let me -- let me take a step back here, on sort of
the landscape in which Subsection (e) was enacted.
Both sides agree that, without Subsection
(e), covered medical personnel would have faced the risk
of personal liability for medical battery claims. Both
sides also agree that Subsection (e) was enacted to
obviate that risk and, in fact, successfully does so
under either side's construction. Everyone agrees on
that.
The dispute here is whether Congress
accomplished that objective by, A, assuming the
existence of an available tort remedy for purposes of
the Gonzalez Act's conferral of immunity, as the text of
the provision suggests; or, instead, whether it takes
the substantial further step of actually amending the
FTCA, which is a separate -- an entirely separate
statute and, thereby, provide a remedy against the
United States.
The latter construction, I don't think is
unmistakably correct, it's not unavoidable. And -- and,
because of that, the unequivocal waiver requirement
favors the government --
JUSTICE BREYER: You're -- you're -- I'm
picking up from -- I find Justice Scalia's hypothetical
interpretations of legislative history very useful.
So the -- the -- and I --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Thank you. Thank you, dear
colleague. I appreciate that.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: The -- the thing where we
are in this -- it' -- we have a -- we have a statute,
1089, basically, and it says you can sue the government
for the tort of an employee -- I'm oversimplifying, I'm
oversimplifying so. And we should interpret that narrowly,
okay? We should interpret that -- absolutely has to be
definite, and it is pretty definite.
Now, what we have is an exception to that.
And the exception is an exception for battery, but not
battery. Can't sue the United States for battery. And
we're supposed to interpret that, I guess, as broadly as
possible. If you have a plausible argument that it
could be broader, you get it, as long as it's plausible.
Then what we have -- because, after all,
after these two things, you can still sue the person who
hit you over the head, you can go sue him in a State
court, can't you? Now, oh, now, we bring a new Act
there. And this new Act says, we are going to have a
little exception to the exception. Right? And we are
supposed to interpret that one, I guess, as narrowly as
possible.
You see -- so, now, what we are -- because
that's an exception to something which should be
interpreted as broadly as possible, which is an
exception to something that should be interpreted as
narrowly as possible.
So I think I get it like Costello used to, I
don't know what I'm talking about.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Because there are a lot of
words in these things. And -- and so given all these
words and -- this is where the Chief Justice started --
I mean, can't we at least look at legislative history,
to try to figure out what Congress was doing by the time
we get to the exception to the exception to the
exception?
MR. SHAH: No -- no, Your Honor. This Court
has made quite clear you cannot look at the
legislative history. And the fact that, if you find
this confusing --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. SHAH: -- Justice Breyer, if you find
it's not --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then you win, as long
as I find it confusing.
(Laughter.)
MR. SHAH: -- unequivocally clear, we win,
and you don't look to the legislative history for
clarity. That's the point of what --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I don't find it all
that confusing. What it says is that this battery
exception, which is in (h), is not supposed to apply
when we look at the military doctors. That's what it
says.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: And if -- and you say, ah,
but it says, "for purposes of this section." Okay. I
look at "for purposes of this section," and the purposes
of this section -- the very first whole sentence has to
do with 1089. It has to do with the scope. It has to
do with the general waiver.
MR. SHAH: Well, the "for purposes of this
section" language, I think, is the key phrase, and this
section refers to the Gonzalez Act. What the Gonzalez
Act primarily does -- what Sections (a) through (c) are
all about, are about conferring personal immunity. So I
think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think those are the
key words. I think the key words are "shall not apply."
"Shall not apply."
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It isn't shall be deemed
inapplicable.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I think, when we are
reading it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is not a hypothetical.
It says, "They shall not apply to any cause of action,"
etc.
MR. SHAH: I think, when we are reading it
against the canon -- the sovereign immunity canon, I
think we would expect Congress to speak more clearly.
And Congress gave us two examples of how it spoke more
clearly in this very context.
One is, in 1974, the sole -- the only time
it amended Section 2680(h), it amended it within the --
the provision itself; that is, it amended the language
of 2680(h) to add a law enforcement proviso that said,
"This exception applies except with respect to law
enforcement in certain circumstances."
That's one way --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. But why? Why would
they have wanted to do that? That is to say, look, if
you cut the exception to the exception to the exception,
the presumption, da, da, da, out of it, what we've got
on your interpretation is that a person who's hurt by a
battery committed by a government official, given your
interpretation, has no remedy at all. I mean,
previously, he could have at least sued in State court.
MR. SHAH: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, what you're saying is
Congress tried to do with this language is say, hey, you
can't sue in State court; and, by the way, when you try
to sue the Federal government, we are not going to give
you your suit, either. Why do that?
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I don't
think -- I don't think that's true. I think before --
before the Gonzalez Act came along, there was a split in
the circuits. That's why the Gonzalez Act came along.
There were -- there were circuits that did not allow a
claim to proceed personally against the physician.
There were circuits that recognized absolute
immunity against a personal suit, even while it was
undisputed that battery claim could not proceed against
the government.
That -- and what -- what Congress said, if
you want to look at legislative history, what the Senate
Report says is, in light of this D.C. Circuit decision
that went the other way, Congress enacted the Gonzalez
Act because it was primarily concerned about conferring
personal immunity.
Every time the Senate Report talks about the
purpose of the bill -- it's on page 1, heading, "Purpose
of the Bill" -- it says conferring personal immunity,
nothing about expanding the government's tort liability.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Shah, this is not
always the government's position. In fact, in a brief
to this Court, in the Smith case, the government took
the position that Mr. Feldman is presenting to us.
What occurred to turn on the light for the
government, to see that it was wrong in the Smith case
and come up with this -- the interpretation you are now
advancing?
MR. SHAH: Sure, Justice Ginsburg. Well,
the first thing I would say is that Section 1089(e) was
not directly at issue in Smith, and the issue had really
been litigated quite sparsely, both before and after
Smith.
Once this case presented itself, the
government revisited its position. I think there were
two --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But this is not a side
issue, Mr. Shah. In fact, you used your understanding
of 1089(e) as an argument to produce that the result this
Court reached in Smith, so it was -- it was not a very
large issue, but it was -- it was an argument.
You said -- you know, we should reach the
result that we -- that you wanted in Smith because
1089(e) would continue to have this effect.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I don't agree
with that characterization. The government's argument
would have been identical, with or without 1089(e). But
I don't want to quibble about --
JUSTICE KAGAN: It was a supportive
argument. I am not saying that it was the but-for
argument, but it was clearly a supportive argument in
your brief.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, if you want to read
it that way, I think that's fine. I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why else was it
there? Just for fun?
(Laughter.)
MR. SHAH: No, I agree. It was in order
to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It was obviously there to
support your position. Now, your position would have
been the same. Now, that's true. Your position would
have been identical, but the only purpose of that
argument was to support that position.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I agree. It -- it
supported that position --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that was
successful. The Court relied on that argument several
times in its opinion.
MR. SHAH: I don't believe so, Your Honor.
I don't believe the Court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We certainly -- we
certainly cited Smith.
MR. SHAH: Yes, but the Court did not
interpret 1089(e). I think Smith -- what Smith
hopefully said, Your Honor -- and this is one of the
reasons why the government revisited its position --
what the Court said in the Smith decision -- you don't
have to take my word of what the legislative history
says.
What the -- what the Court in Smith itself
said is that the sole purpose of the Gonzalez Act -- not
the primary purpose, not a purpose, not a chief
purpose -- the sole purpose of the Gonzalez Act -- and
it's talking about the Gonzalez Act as a whole -- was to
confer personal immunity and not to create malpractice
rights in favor of plaintiffs.
What Justice Ginsburg --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your friend -- your
friend says that, in Smith -- I'm sorry for the
confusion -- the Court addressed your argument on the
meaning of the Gonzalez Act several times.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, it did not address
1089(e) at all, and -- and I think that's plain as day
from -- from the opinion. What the Court said in Smith
is that the purpose of the Gonzalez Act -- the sole
purpose of the Gonzalez Act is to confer personal
immunity. And what it also said is the Gonzalez Act
does not create malpractice rights in favor of
plaintiff.
That was one of the things that the
government looked at in reformulating its position and
adopting its current position, was the decision in
Smith, which came after our brief. The other thing we
looked at --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you did -- you did
say, in the reply brief, that the point of the Gonzalez
Act, it says, "would enable plaintiffs to pursue those
claims against the United States."
MR. SHAH: You are correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I know you would have been
disappointed if we didn't ask you about this.
MR. SHAH: Yes, you are correct. We said
it. This is a change of position. We revisited it.
There were a couple things we looked at in coming to
our --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I -- but it -- and
Justice Kagan indicated, this wasn't just an aside.
This was rather a central theory for your interpretation
of the Act; maybe not the only theory, but a central
theory.
MR. SHAH: I -- again, I -- I disagree,
fundamentally, with that characterization. It's two
sentences in our brief. It's at the back end of the
brief. It was not fundamental to the position in Smith.
The Court did not rely on it at all in Smith.
But, even if all that were true, I think the
important thing is why we changed our position. The one
is -- the first and foremost is the statements in the
Court's decision in Smith itself, which, obviously,
post-dated our brief --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't find that
inconsistent with the position argued. There -- you are
talking about the statement that the sole purpose was --
was to --
MR. SHAH: The two statements, the sole
purpose of the Gonzalez Act is to confer immunity,
not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think it is the
sole purpose, even if you -- you accept your friend's
interpretation.
MR. SHAH: But, no --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no. The sole purpose
is to assure immunity to these doctors. Now, in
assuring immunity to these doctors, we -- we are not
going to leave these people without any remedy, and so
we allowed them a remedy against the United States.
That's subsidiary to the sole purpose of the
Act. Sure, the sole purpose is to -- is to -- is to
help these doctors. But, in order to do it and be fair
at the same time, you have to allow suit against the
United States. I think you could still say the sole
purpose was to help the doctors.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I would
disagree with that. The other side's brief says, all
along, the sole purpose of this Act was not just to
confer personal immunity, but it had a dual purpose.
The dual purpose was to confer personal
immunity -- and this is, time and time again, in the
other side's brief -- to -- to confer personal immunity
and also to provide adequate remedies to tort
plaintiffs. That was not, we submit, a purpose, let
alone a primary purpose, of the Gonzalez Act.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why would -- why would
Congress -- I mean, the Veterans Administration Act came
after the four or five others, and Congress thought it
was patterning that Act after the Gonzalez Act.
Why would Congress want to provide this
battery remedy if a Veterans Administration medical
person messed up, but not if it was an armed service
doctor?
MR. SHAH: Of course, Congress doesn't say.
I think there are two potential reasons, Justice
Ginsburg. One might be the -- as -- as this Court has
recognized, the special solicitude that Congress pays
veterans, and it may have wanted to open up remedies to
veterans that were unavailable to others.
I think the second potential reason is the
defense side reasons. The defendants in Veterans Act
cases are civilian Veterans Administration employees.
In a Gonzalez Act case, by and large, the defendants are
going to be active military personnel. Congress is
often hesitant to create -- expand judicial remedies
against active military personnel because of the risk it
poses to interfering with military function and order.
So I think those are two reasons why
Congress may have decided to -- to change course in the
Veterans Act in 1988, after it had four provisions that
said exactly the same thing, using the four purposes of
this Act provision, it changed it, and it must have
changed it for a reason.
Two potential reasons are to change the
result, which, of course, under which the government
would win; or because it think -- it thought it needed
to speak more clearly, in order to waive sovereign
immunity. And, under the presumption against sovereign
immunity waivers, the government would also prevail.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Shah, your basic theory
of the case, which is that, in order to make absolutely
certain that everyone gets the benefit of the
intentional tort exception, both the government and
individual doctors, in order to make that absolutely
clear, Congress writes a provision saying that the
intentional tort exception shall not apply.
Now -- I mean, the -- the position, I have
to say, seems to refute itself. If Congress wanted to
make absolutely clear that the intentional tort
exception would apply, it wouldn't have written a
provision saying that it doesn't apply.
MR. SHAH: Well, the provision that you
describe, Justice Kagan, is not this provision. It's
the 1988 Veterans Act amendment, which says the
intentional tort exception shall not apply. This
provision says, "for purposes of this section," that is,
for purposes of the Gonzalez Act's conferral of immunity
in Subsection (a), that the -- the intentional tort
exception shall not apply.
Now, sometimes, when Congress uses the four
purposes of this section's formulation, sometimes, it
uses words like "assume that" or "consider that," as
it -- as cited in the other side's brief, in footnote 4,
on page 18. However, other times, when it uses "for
purposes of this section," even though it intends
somewhat of a counterfactual inquiry, it eliminates
those words.
In Title 10 itself, Section 10 USC 335 says,
"for purposes of this section" -- the exact language is,
"For purposes of this chapter, the term 'State' includes
Guam and the Virgin Islands."
Now, there's no dispute that Congress was
not trying to add Guam and the Virgin Islands as the
51st and 52nd States of the Union. What it meant is,
when applying the provisions of this section, treat Guam
and Virgin Islands as if they are States. So --
JUSTICE BREYER: Would you -- are you
finished there?
MR. SHAH: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE BREYER: Would -- would you go back
for a minute and think, before this Act was passed --
the Gonzalez Act -- and think of the millions of
government employees, and they're in different parts of
the country, and some of them commit batteries.
Now, you told me before that, where an
injured person -- a plaintiff sues a government
employee, and they sue under State tort law, and they
say, this government employee committed a battery, okay,
in the course of duty, you say there was an immunity
there.
Where did the immunity come from?
MR. SHAH: It was -- it was a common law
absolute immunity.
JUSTICE BREYER: From what?
MR. SHAH: One -- one case is the
Martinez --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, what was the theory
of it? I mean, here it's just -- it's a person, he's at
work, he does happen to work for the Federal government,
instead of working for someone else --
MR. SHAH: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and everybody else, you
have to respond, and you -- if liable, you'd have to pay
damages for the battery. Now, where -- where did the
immunity come from --
MR. SHAH: The theory was --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- if the Federal employee
did it?
MR. SHAH: The theory behind the individual
immunity was the same -- essentially, the same theory
behind the Westfall Act immunity that this Court
rejected in the Westfall Act decision. So, up until
Westfall, there was an argument that there was absolute
immunity, that -- that the individual government
employees had absolute immunity.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why?
MR. SHAH: It was a common law immunity
that -- it was an offshoot of the sovereign immunity,
and it conferred it on the individual employee. This
Court, of course, in Westfall, rejected that notion and
said -- you know, that immunity doesn't apply, unless
you are talking about both beings in the scope of
employment and that apply -- that involve discretionary
policy decisions at a high enough level.
The last point I would make, Your Honor, is,
even if you believed -- and I think you do -- that the
texts were more naturally read to favor Petitioner, that
is not enough. And I think you can look at this Court's
decision in Nordic Village.
The statutory provision in that case made
certain Bankruptcy Court determinations binding on the
government, "notwithstanding any assertion of sovereign
immunity." The relevant language is reproduced on
footnote 10, on page 41 of our brief.
That language, "notwithstanding any
assertion of sovereign immunity," sounds awfully like a
waiver of sovereign immunity. It seems pretty explicit.
But what this Court said, in applying the unequivocal
waiver requirement, in finding that there was no waiver
of sovereign immunity, despite that very explicit
language, was that the statute, nonetheless, performed a
significant function.
Here, the same is true. Section 1089(e),
though not authorizing monetary relief, still
undisputedly performs a function here. It performs a
function of securing the personal immunity conferred by
Section 1089(a), that is, for purposes of the Gonzalez
Act, the conferral of immunity under Section 1089(a).
Just -- just as in Nordic Village, that is
enough to construe the statute against a waiver of
sovereign immunity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you want us to
decide the case with the unequivocal question before us,
in other words, deciding whether that benefit to the
government applies in this type of case.
MR. SHAH: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems to me to be
you are really upping the ante here, and it may well --
I have no idea why the government took the opposite
position below, but that's -- that's putting a lot more
at stake in this case than the particular statutory
position.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, there are four
courts that have decided -- conclusively spoken -- to my
knowledge, four courts, in the history, that have
interpreted this provision, Section 1089(e). All have
come out in the government's favor. There were two
district court decisions before the Smith case. Both
came out in the government's favor.
The only two decisions I am aware of are the
two decisions in this case, conclusively interpreting
1089(e), the district court and the court of appeals.
Both courts in this case relied on the unequivocal
waiver requirement. And I think that that's -- it's not
a stretch, at all, to apply the unequivocal waiver canon
here.
In fact, this case is far afield from Dolan.
It would be a substantial expansion of the narrow
exception in Dolan to say that the unequivocal waiver
requirement didn't apply. There was no dispute that
sovereign immunity applied the day before the Gonzalez
Act was enacted.
So the only question is whether the Gonzalez
Act enacts a new waiver of sovereign immunity. That is
the type of situation in which the canon applies most
strongly.
And Congress did it in a separate statute.
Again, in Dolan, we were interpreting provisions that
everyone agreed were part and parcel of the FTCA that --
that altered the balance of sovereign immunity. Here,
the question is whether it even affects or amends the
FTCA in the first place, whether it means to affect the
sovereign immunity balance in the first place.
That's an especially strong case in which we
would want an unequivocal waiver requirement.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Shah, does it make
any sense to distinguish between a medical malpractice,
negligence and this unconsented operation, to split
those two and say the government is liable for
malpractice, but not for this unconsented action.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I think it makes a
lot of sense, and here's why: When Congress enacted the
intentional tort exception itself in 1946, one of the
principal reasons it -- it did that was because
intentional tort claims are sometimes easier to allege
but more difficult to disprove.
That is particularly true with respect to
these sort of lack of consent claims, where you have a
patient who has signed consent forms, agreed to a
surgery, and says -- and the facts of this case, I
think, are illustrative -- says right before the
anesthesia kicked in, "I said I don't want the procedure
anymore."
Now, here, the government was successful in
winning on summary judgment dismissal of the actual
medical negligence claim, that the doctor's standard of
care didn't -- that the doctor's care didn't meet the
standard of care.
The government won summary judgment on that
because there -- there was no evidence -- no expert
testimony that supported Petitioner's claim. But his
claim that, "I said no right before the anesthesia
kicked in," survived summary judgment.
And I think it was correct to survive
summary judgment, but the problem is that that survived
summary judgment, even though the deposition testimony,
as pointed out in the government's brief, everyone else
in the operating room, including the doctor, said that
this patient did not so object, just shows that these
claims --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Shah, can I ask you
why -- if your interpretation is correct, Subsection (e)
did not read -- not for purposes of this section, but
rather for purposes of Subsection (a), the provisions of
2680(h) shall not apply?
MR. SHAH: Well, Your -- may I -- may I
respond, Your Honor?
For -- this section -- Subsection (a), (b),
and (c) all work in tandem. (D) is a settlement
provision that really doesn't really have anything to do
with this. So, when it says, "for purposes of this
section," "Subsection (a)" and "this section" are
essentially the only operative provisions of the Act.
The only other provisions that do any work
are (e) and (f), which come after, obviously, Subsection
(e). So, when Congress used the term "for purposes of
this section," I think the fair statement is it was
referring to Subsections (a) through (c).
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Feldman, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. FELDMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FELDMAN: I -- I just wanted to make a
couple of quick points. One is the Court has not
applied the clear statement -- the unequivocal statement
standard at any time in the Tort Claims Act, not just
when it's dealing with exceptions, but, if you go back
to the very early cases, the Aetna case, the Yellow Cab
case, really, right after the Act was passed, you can
see that the Court is saying there, no, we want to
interpret this Act to -- consistent with Congress's
intent, the way it wanted it interpreted, which is with
a fair reading of its words, not in one direction, not
in the other.
I just also wanted to clarify, in the Smith
case because, of a possible misunderstanding, the Court
definitely addressed the Gonzales Act, repeatedly, in
its opinion in the Smith case, but it didn't -- the
Court did not actually address 1089(e).
The reason the government, though -- this
was important to the government, and, actually, the
government's reply brief in the Smith case was, I think,
a hundred percent about the Gonzales Act -- was that the
other side of the Gonzales Act was saying, if you
construe the Westfall Act the way the government wants,
that will be an implied repeal, but the Gonzales Act
will have nothing left to do.
And it was important for the government --
that's why they kept saying it. It was important for
the government to say, no, the Gonzales Act does have
things to do, this is not an implied repeal. And one of
the things it does is exactly what we say Section
1089(e) does.
If there are no further questions?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Feldman, the
Court invited you to brief and argue this case as an
amicus curiae, and you have ably discharged that
responsibility, for which the Court is grateful.
MR. FELDMAN: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:05 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
60:9 47:19 48:6,13 affect 56:7 57:12 2:2,5,8 3:3,7
53:3,5 55:22,24 58:8 8:3 16:22 anymore 57:3 43:21,23 44:3
59:8,14,15,16 agency 4:22,22 apart 6:20 45:23 53:3
acting 16:23 23:14 appear 8:20 arguments 9:18
8:5 15:14 37:1,4 44:2,15 applicable 7:23 arose 13:14
actions 19:3 agrees 30:11 26:16 27:3,4 7:19 17:10,17
active 49:14,16 ah 40:9 55:21 58:21 54:1
4:4,5,24 add 14:24 21:15 21:12 apply 4:4,16,17 assure 11:9,16
7:3,7,18,22 21:17 22:2 allege 56:20 5:13 7:19 8:13 26:1 48:1
26:14 41:15 alleged 5:14 9:3 16:5,19 assuring 48:2
10:4,6,8,12 51:13 allow 22:23 21:1 26:15 Attorney 18:15
added 5:8 6:5,6 32:24 42:12 27:10,22 30:5 18:23
12:2 address 9:21 48:8 31:5,8,15,18 authority 15:2
12:23 45:25 allowed 48:4 31:22 32:4,19 16:23 23:14
15:19,20 59:10 allowing 24:11 40:5,22,23 authorized
16:9,11 addressed 45:23 alongside 28:18 41:5 50:11,15 14:11 15:17
17:3,8 59:8 29:6 50:16,20,24 authorizing
19:23 adequate 11:9 altered 56:5 53:11,13 55:15 54:9
11:16 48:18 alternative 55:20 57:25 available 3:14
Administration 20:16 applying 51:15 19:1,10 37:10
5:8,23 6:1,2 altogether 13:25 54:3 average 13:19
48:22 49:1,12 22:2 appointed 1:15 aware 14:7
adopt 9:24 ambivalent 26:9 appreciate 38:2 55:10
29:9 adopted 4:22 amended 41:13 approach 4:22 awfully 54:1
32:2 21:13 41:13,14 12:12 a.m 1:13 3:2
33:24 adopting 46:10 amending 37:13 appropriate 60:8
advancing 43:10 amendment 12:16 23:15
40:17
29:6 25:25 19:9,11 20:1 chief 3:3,9 8:7 26:5 27:9 31:8
35:18 Breyer 6:23 21:10 24:7 23:24 27:12,17 36:15 39:16,25
47:6 37:21 38:4 25:8 27:4,23 28:1 29:15,19 50:10,14 58:21
58:23 39:8,19,20,22 28:7 29:4 29:24 30:14,20 clearer 31:11
42:3 51:17,20 35:14 43:5,8 45:4,15,21 21:22 22:6
53:6 50:6 52:10 60:1,6 35:24 41:9,11
44:9 46:11,14 55:17 56:9,25 42:20 close 5:15
48:12,17 51:3 59:9,13 60:2,6 42:14 closely 14:13,15
38:20 7:23,25 8:1,4 24:3 28:11 58:10
13:21 28:18,21 29:1 17:16 20:4 cited 45:5 51:3 commentaries
17:2,11 broader 26:8,9 23:1,21 24:11 civilian 49:12 14:25
27:25 38:16 28:2,12,15 claim 13:6 14:1 commit 13:21
38:12,13 broadly 38:14 29:4 49:12 17:2,9 29:10 51:24
40:4 39:2 58:24 29:13 42:13,16 commits 17:17
42:16 brought 5:16 case-by-case 57:6,11,12 committed 4:25
52:3,19 14:18,23 16:22 17:21 claims 4:4 7:3 8:1 9:16 17:11
24:12,15 25:9 central 47:1,2 9:5,9,19 10:12 committee 11:8
3:8 50:7 53:21 15:24 16:20,21 52:7 53:7
58:18 C certainly 16:11 16:21 17:1 compensation
16:8 canon 28:10,16 chain 32:16 37:3 46:16 concedes 18:13
28:20 31:4 change 6:17 56:20,23 57:20 conceding 14:17
30:15 car 13:1 49:19,24 34:14 59:6 11:23 42:22
54:19 care 34:19 35:6 changed 34:8 clarity 21:3 40:2 conclusion 10:7
47:19 59:2 28:20,24 34:11 decided 12:13 15:8
construction 35:14 38:20 49:19 55:4 difference 11:24
54:13 27:6,7 37:6,17 43:5,22 44:25 decision 10:3 differences
59:16 45:23 46:2 42:20 45:10 different 6:19
42:22 10:4 53:10,21 54:3 53:2,19 12:12 14:10
construing 27:5 55:8,12,12 decisions 53:14 20:21 26:2,7
40:4 30:7 59:10 60:2,4 declarative 4:3 51:23
4:21 5:4 context 8:18 55:4,5,13 defend 21:16 difficult 56:21
8:3 20:1 22:4,24 Court's 10:3 defendant 10:11 direct 32:3
11:22 26:16,17 41:11 12:6 27:3 defendants direction 59:4
13:10,16 continuation 47:12 53:18 49:11,13 directly 16:3
15:18,20 20:13 covered 3:18 defense 4:25 25:9 43:13
19:2,16 continue 19:3 4:23 5:20,21 16:15 49:11 disagree 36:23
21:3 22:20 44:1 7:25 9:9,10 definite 38:10 47:4 48:12
23:10,16 continued 13:18 16:20 17:8 38:10 disappointed
24:10 24:12 31:25 37:2 definitely 12:19 46:19
core 14:14 create 45:18 59:8 discernible 21:4
31:6,11 correct 13:9 46:6 49:15 degree 21:2,19 21:22 22:6
32:2 16:9 18:17,18 criticize 15:2 deliberately discharged 60:3
34:13 25:6,15 26:12 curiae 60:3 13:1 discretionary
26:13 29:18 current 46:10 demonstrate 12:9 19:25
39:12 37:18 46:17,20 cut 28:25 29:6 3:12 53:13
42:4 57:14,22 41:21 Department dismissal 57:5
48:22 Costello 39:5 cutting 28:23 1:18 4:25 5:9 dispositive
49:4 counsel 58:15 depend 17:23 34:14
count 4:9 D 26:21 disprove 56:21
counterfactual D 3:1 58:4 deposition 57:16 dispute 29:11
56:2,17 51:6 da 41:22,22,22 describe 50:18 35:11 37:8
country 3:14 damages 52:19 described 24:5 51:12 55:20
couple 46:22 31:3 46:1 detailed 23:6 distinguish
36:8 course 18:12 deal 9:15 12:15 14:3 district 21:13
49:4,19,25 dealing 5:5 17:22 18:5,7 55:8,12
15:13 court 1:1,12,16 14:4,15 15:7 determinations 14:9 15:12
56:23,24 3:10 9:20 10:5 15:19,20 22:14 53:21 16:5,14 17:16
21:4,13,21,23 dear 38:1 developed 21:20 25:10,14 49:3
9:7 12:25 21:8 31:24 expansion 55:18 19:11,15,18,21
5:9 8:2 52:2,3,22 53:9 evidence 57:10 expert 57:10 21:15 22:8,17
11:3,3 employees 3:22 exact 51:9 explanation 23:22 24:9,21
19:4 11:5,11 12:5,8 exactly 6:7,10 6:17 25:7,16 26:11
24:12 12:12 13:17 6:14 7:7,14 explicit 54:2,5 26:13 27:13
26:2 20:10,12 22:14 14:14 31:20 extensively 43:6 58:16,17
36:1 24:16 49:12 49:21 59:23 33:23 58:19 60:1,5
48:1,2,7 51:23 53:5 example 5:6 extraordinarily felt 12:15 13:17
50:9 employee's 19:12 13:22 13:24
39:12 employment 8:2 4:3,16 5:13 6:4 f 58:10 find 37:22 39:17
30:6 17:20 18:6,16 8:22 10:19 fact 8:18 9:21 47:14
55:17,19 18:24 53:13 12:10 16:7,16 20:7 36:10 finding 54:4
enable 46:15 16:18 17:25 37:5 39:17 fine 44:11
enacted 13:15 22:22 27:22 facts 17:23 first 3:4 4:8 5:12
56:17 31:23 32:4,19 48:7 58:12 five 22:11,15,19
27:19 encompassed 39:14 40:5 53:17 55:7,9 53:24
33:17 17:3 41:16,21,21,21 favors 37:20 Forces 5:1
37:2,4 ends 24:1,3 50:8,11,15,20 Federal 3:22 4:4 foreign 19:21
58:10,11 enforcement 50:24 55:19 7:18,22 8:24 23:2,6,12
42:7 13:21 56:9 exclude 7:3 26:21,25 42:6 20:21
13:25 2:6,9 exclusive 3:21 feel 11:16 29:21
23:21 essentially 3:14 8:11 9:13 Feldman 1:15 four 9:5 22:19
5:7 6:22 9:22 26:22 2:3,9 3:6,7,9 32:14,16 33:3
58:8 Executive 11:7 7:13 8:16 9:25 50:25 55:3,5
25:24 ET 1:6 existence 37:10 13:9,12 15:5 friend's 47:22
37:14 12:13,14 13:22 59:11,12,16,19 33:14 34:3 important 5:4
15:10 21:25 59:21 35:1,8 36:13 15:15 23:11
29:19 38:21 43:2,4 44:3 41:2 42:8 44:2 59:12,19,20
Gonzales 8:20 grabs 13:2 14:8 53:15 55:3 incentive 15:15
19:25 Gonzalez 3:12 51:15 hopefully 45:8 including 34:1
54:7,10 3:19,20,25 Guard 5:1 hospital 17:6 57:18
4:24 5:4 7:25 guess 38:14,23 House 7:1,4 incongruity
12:18 15:21 H hurt 41:23 inconsistent
47:7 23:3 26:4,17 happen 14:6,9 37:22 41:4 indemnification
29:9 31:4,25 happens 20:13 I indemnifying
37:13 37:11 40:17,17 head 38:19 identical 9:23 indicated 46:25
42:10,11,21 heading 42:25 33:10,15 44:4 individual 25:13
Health 5:6 44:20 50:9 52:24
40:14 51:22 54:12 help 48:7,10 immunity 20:24 inference 35:21
4:18,18 5:17 helps 26:5 29:7,10,12,17 injured 11:19,20
8:8 12:5,8 13:2,6 hey 42:4 31:1,3 37:11 inquiry 51:6
22:8 43:3 14:1,17,17,18 high 53:14 40:19 41:8 instance 11:21
45:20 14:23 16:13,14 higher 30:16 42:15,23 43:1 23:2 28:5
49:6 16:15 18:13,15 hint 15:18,21 45:18 46:5 insurance 11:3
20:15 21:9 history 6:11,25 47:19 48:1,2 intend 34:14
39:9 35:23 36:1,6 39:11,17 40:1 52:6,8,20,25 intends 51:5
36:10 37:20 42:19 45:11 53:1,4,5,7,8,11 intent 9:15
42:6,17 43:5,8 hit 38:19 54:11,13,16 intentional 3:17
35:18 46:9 49:25 holding 23:4 56:8 7:15,16,24 8:4
51:20 50:4,8 51:23 Home 5:1 implausible 8:15,22 13:20
52:1,3,14 53:4 Honor 4:13 9:14 21:14 16:16,18 17:3
32:3 Justice 1:18 3:3 KENNEDY 17:15 41:15,16 28:2 39:8
34:2
4:7 5:22,25 14:25 46:13,18 52:2,7 53:7 54:25 56:17
50:8,11 6:23 8:7,8 9:17 46:24 leave 48:3 lower 12:7 15:1
10:22 11:15,19 kept 22:11 59:20 left 31:16 59:18 18:1,4
13:10 key 15:11 18:19 legislative 6:25 luck 12:14
17:25 18:4,12 40:22 35:12,15 37:23
20:2,15 kind 14:1 15:9 42:19 45:11 machinery
59:2 21:12 22:8 15:23 17:18,22 letter 11:8 26:25 27:1
21:13 23:25 24:21 20:22 24:13 36:5,6
34:11
26:7,12 36:5 level 12:8 53:14 10:19 15:4
35:13 27:12,17 28:1 kinds 5:15 7:24 Levin 1:3 3:4
34:15
43:9
8:25 14:6 liability 37:3 malpractice
57:22 30:14,20 31:7 15:10 22:25 43:2 4:17,24 5:16
32:6,11,13 know 9:13 11:19 36:6,11 52:18 12:1,3,18 14:5
55:6 59:3 34:18,22 35:3 17:23 20:16,21 light 42:20 43:7 22:24,25 24:19
30:4 36:20 37:21,22 34:19 35:6 limitations 56:12,15
56:3 38:1,4 39:8,10 39:6 43:24 10:12 manifest 28:21
knowledge 55:5 29:2 matter 1:11
46:13,18,24,25 language 3:11 litigation 15:4 25:7 31:10
48:21 49:5 10:6 32:8,22 long 38:16 39:22 41:25 48:22
51:20 52:9,12 34:8,12,13,15 3:13 meaning 3:24
43:13,13 54:17,22 56:11 41:14 42:4 9:12 10:3 15:9
45:24
58:15 51:9 53:23,25 22:3,4,4 32:24 means 16:19
54:6 33:21 35:15 26:6 56:7
3:7 58:17 Kagan 23:22 Laughter 33:13 42:19 53:18 medical 4:6,16
57:5,9 36:4,17,20 38:3 39:7,24 looking 11:2
12:1,3,18
44:6 44:14 12:3,4,11,17 14:5,14,20
27:24 Nordic 53:19 45:1 46:2 59:9 15:25 31:25 27:18
49:1 54:14 opposite 54:24 35:21 48:3 point 18:13 24:2
57:6 normal 27:6 oral 1:11 2:2,5 percent 59:14 29:16 33:20,21
notwithstandi... ordinary 24:6 performing 4:19 policy 9:20
34:1 originally 6:2 14:10 15:13 position 12:19
nullifying 7:15 49:2 52:1,13 46:9,10,21
O page 2:2 42:25 43:1 45:18 55:2
objective 36:8 pardon 18:3 personally 59:7
55:18 officer 16:5 particular 10:9 pertinent 27:20 2:6 27:15
39:4 oh 38:20 particularly 53:17 58:18 24:4
43:16 51:21 58:25 physician 42:13 35:16
57:6 34:8 35:10 57:19 place 56:7,8 presented 43:16
55:24 operation 13:3,3 34:23 35:2,5,8 52:1 18:21 23:17
operative 3:25 pay 7:10 52:18 plausible 20:18 28:13 41:22
opinion 15:1 people 12:13 please 3:10 pretend 36:5,6
54:2 26:22,23 27:9 21:2 24:25 28:12 18:25
35:20 36:5,14 27:23 29:9,14 reference 8:14 removing 18:22
53:20 55:6 quibble 44:5 27:21 40:17 59:13
provisions 4:12 quite 5:3 6:12 46:9 7:1 42:20,24
12:1,5,7 51:15 56:3 R 3:1 23:19 24:13 30:1 37:19
13:14 57:24 58:8,9 raising 36:10 25:21 26:23 54:4 55:14,20
57:15 proviso 32:22 rationalize 15:9 rejected 53:2,10 56:10
57:2 41:15 reached 43:22 relates 17:4 30:16,18 32:4
19:7 22:1 14:17 44:10 53:23 respond 52:18
Public 5:6 53:17 57:23 relied 44:25 58:2
45:14,15,15,16 15:4 20:8 21:2 remain 26:8 60:4
47:16,19,22,25 25:8 26:25 remains 23:11 result 6:8 43:21
26:2 48:14,15,19,20 58:5,5,25 26:24 resurrects 30:21
19:5 9:6,10 16:18 19:13,19 22:11 remedies 11:10 reviewed 6:19
37:15 16:19 27:20 22:15 27:5 11:16 12:21 revisited 43:17
32:8,18,23 30:23 33:1,4 18:21 23:17 45:9 46:21
23:3 50:21,22 51:1 reasons 10:1 48:18 49:8,15 8:17 9:25
7:2 8:13 58:6,11 REBUTTAL 14:22 19:1 19:5 23:25
9:14 10:4 pursue 46:15 2:8 58:17 23:8 26:22 24:9 31:24
put 29:8 recites 6:13 37:10,15 41:25 33:22 36:6,9
19:16 putting 54:25 recognize 28:16 48:3,4 49:1 38:22 57:1,12
23:3,11 recognized remember 58:25
24:1,2 Q 42:14 49:7 33:12 rights 45:19
23:23,25 31:21 sentence 4:11 simple 4:2 9:2 55:21,24 56:5
33:6,11 34:18 sentences 47:6 sir 51:19 sparsely 43:14
23:24 38:1 40:21,25 37:14,14 56:2 13:13 18:9 special 49:7
28:1 41:4 44:12,17 serve 22:20 55:25 specific 6:17
47:14,21,25 serves 5:3 situations 12:25 10:19 11:1
44:24 57:21 service 5:6 49:2 six 22:11,15 12:17
54:17 Scalia's 37:22 set 24:23,24 slightly 6:7,21 specifically 9:15
58:15 scope 8:2 13:23 28:10 29:21 12:24 11:25 22:21
16:23 17:11,13 settlement 58:4 slugs 14:2 26:18
18:24 28:17 Shah 1:17 2:6 21:10 22:18 split 42:10 56:13
40:13 53:12 28:9 29:18,23 43:22,25 45:5 spoken 55:4
29:1 second 13:2,7 31:9,13,17 45:22 46:2,11 stake 55:1
5:19 6:9 35:1,8,19 36:3 sole 20:8 41:12 57:6,8 58:22
22:12 27:20 30:4,8 43:3,11,20 solicitude 49:7 19:6,7 38:19
26:7 30:25 32:9,11 44:2,10,15,22 somebody 13:1 42:1,5 51:10
36:17 32:18,23 40:10 45:2,6,25 13:2 14:8 25:9 52:2
44:7 40:11,12,16,17 46:17,20 47:4 somewhat 51:6 statement 47:16
59:1 41:13 43:12 47:18,24 48:11 sorry 16:25 58:12,21,21
50:21 51:5,8,9 49:4 50:5,17 45:22 statements
54:13 55:6 52:16,21,24 30:21 35:3 states 1:1,6,12
57:23 58:3,7,7 53:7 54:21 36:24 56:23 3:5 7:10 8:11
25:3 58:12 59:23 55:3 56:11,16 SOTOMAYOR 15:6,6 16:3,6
32:24 sections 5:20,21 57:21 58:1 9:17 16:24 17:9 19:1,10
34:5,7 40:18 show 25:18 17:25 18:4 24:5,7 27:19
40:4,7 section's 51:1 showed 12:20 31:7,10,14 34:25 37:16
41:5 securing 54:11 shows 19:2 33:19 38:13 46:16
43:1 see 8:13 11:13 23:16 57:19 sounds 54:1 48:4,9 51:14
46:15 19:24 38:25 side 7:8 30:25 sovereign 20:24 51:16
50:19,21 43:8 59:1 31:5 43:19 27:24 28:5,13 State's 15:12
56:25 Senate 6:12 7:1 49:11 59:15 28:18,24 29:7 statute 4:11 5:18
58:6 7:1 11:8 42:19 sides 37:1,4 29:10,12,17 6:3,6,12,12,14
18:12 sense 15:4 23:18 48:17 51:3 31:1,3 41:8 21:23,25 22:3
35:9 56:12,17 signed 56:24 50:2,3 53:8,22 22:4,5 26:24
20:2 sent 11:8 significant 54:7 54:1,2,5,16 33:16 37:15
54:6,15 57:4 37:12 28:9 32:13 25:1 26:1,17
successfully talk 20:21 28:11 33:3,4 34:22 26:18,22,23,25
10:1 15:8 sue 16:14 38:6 talking 17:19 39:5 40:16,20 32:3,18,25
32:14,16 38:13,18,19 18:1 25:18 40:21,22 41:2 34:2,6 37:10
42:5,6 52:2 28:4,7 30:7 41:7,9 42:9,9,9 38:7 43:2
33:5 16:3 18:10 47:16 53:12 45:7 46:1 47:9 50:14,20,23
35:13 42:1 talks 18:22 47:21 48:9 52:2 56:18,20
55:1 sues 52:1 26:22 42:24 49:5,10,18 58:22
37:13 suing 16:5,13,13 term 8:19 51:10 56:16 57:1,14 totally 7:23
25:9 34:24 5:7 9:2 12:24 thought 14:19 treat 10:23
27:6 summary 57:5,9 testimony 57:11 thousand 35:24 true 24:25 32:1
56:1 support 44:18 texts 53:17 30:19 35:14,14 try 39:12 42:5
22:5 44:23 57:11 58:15 60:5 48:16 58:22 23:20 25:19,23
supportive 44:6 theory 47:1,2,3 times 45:1,24 25:25 26:3
supposed 38:14 52:24,25 tinker 6:16 Tuesday 1:9
sure 15:16 31:13 15:11 18:10 24:5 26:19 9:22 12:21,24
27:19 48:6 52:16 38:4 43:12 told 51:25 22:20,20 25:20
33:17 surgery 3:15 46:11 47:10 tools 27:6 38:18 41:10
37:1,4 56:25 49:21 tort 3:13,17,20 43:18 47:5,18
57:22,24 survive 57:14 things 7:6 38:18 4:3,4,16 5:12 49:5,18,24
survived 57:13 39:9 46:8,22 6:4 7:2,16,16 55:7,10,11
system 15:9 think 5:12 7:6 8:22,24 9:5 type 14:20 29:10
55:18 T 2:1,1 15:5,12 17:15 15:14,23 16:16
36:24 45:11 21:15,18,21 22:10,22,23 49:9
V 54:17 56:10 39:10 40:22,22 1346(b) 24:5
variety 26:2 19:4 31:24 work 8:21,23 1946 13:15
16:2 19:17 veterans 5:7,22 41:20 43:25 58:9 1965 6:3 32:15
35:19 5:24 6:1,2 49:8 50:13 working 52:15 1974 41:12
43:20 48:22 49:1,8,9 wants 59:16 worse 36:21 32:15
50:19 1:15,18 wouldn't 19:15 32:20 49:20
11:10,17,20,20 46:25 34:22 50:15
22:23,24
54:10 25:24 26:1 7:14 22:16 written 5:7 2013 1:9
35:16 Village 53:19 36:15,21 41:18 wrong 20:17 2680 8:19
54:3,18 54:14 42:5,21 44:11 43:8 2680(h) 4:12
Virgin 51:11,13 59:3,16 wrongful 4:5 8:12,19,23
58:21 51:16 ways 26:2 35:24 26:19 30:5,8
28:2,4 vital 22:20 weight 15:2 x 1:2,7 41:13,15 57:25
went 42:21 27 2:7
7:10 8:11 11:17 12:2,6 Yellow 58:24 3
31:1
17:9 50:2 12:22 15:19,20 3 2:4
335 51:8
24:5,7 waiver 8:15 28:5 22:9 23:13
42:25
37:16 28:18,22,24 25:20,22 53:1 4
6:5,19 51:8,8
46:16 29:1,7 30:2,5 53:2,3,10
4 51:3 58:16
31:2 35:16 59:16
1:13 3:2 41 53:24
26:5
54:2,4,4,15 we're 9:6 12:13 5
38:6 40:13
54:12,13
6:4,13
waivers 20:23 we're 22:14 58 2:10
24:17,24
26:6,18
34:6
44:1
45:7 46:1
35:9 15:24 20:9,11 word 21:25 22:1
55:6,12
23:3
31:22,23 32:24 wording 6:16
1:4 3:4
60:8
44:5,10 48:25 27:5,24 39:9
6:20 12:1
