IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
KIM MILLBROOK, :
Petitioner : No. 11-10362
v. :
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, February 19, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:25 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CHRISTOPHER J. PAOLELLA, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Petitioner; appointed by the Court.
ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
on behalf of Respondent, supporting reversal and
remand.
JEFFREY S. BUCHOLTZ, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for amicus
curiae in support of the judgment below; appointed by
this Court.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CHRISTOPHER J. PAOLELLA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 13
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY S. BUCHOLTZ, ESQ.
For amicus curiae in support 26
of the judgment below
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CHRISTOPHER J. PAOLELLA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:25 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 11-10362, Millbrook v. United
States.
Mr. Paolella.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER J. PAOLELLA,
FOR PETITIONER, APPOINTED BY THIS COURT
MR. PAOLELLA: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The plain language of Section 2680(h) is law
enforcement provides a waiver of sovereign immunity in
clear, precise and unambiguous terms. It extends the
waiver to any claim for one of the six enumerated torts
committed by a Federal investigative or law enforcement
officer acting within the scope of his or her
employment.
And it defines investigative or law
enforcement officer as any officer of the United States
who is quote, "empowered by law," unquote, to carry out
searches, seizures or arrests.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would that include, say,
a meat -- a meat inspector? There is a wide range of
Federal employees that have arrest or search or
seizure --
MR. PAOLELLA: The proviso doesn't any
employee of the United States who is authorized to carry
out a search, seizure, or arrest. It used the term "any
officer of the United States." And I believe that the
term "officer" carries some water here. If we look at a
spectrum of individuals who have powers -- for example,
to carry out searches -- we can envision on the one hand
very traditional core of law enforcement officers.
Let's take a DEA officer who can carry out
arrests, do searches and seizures, is authorized to use
force. At the other end of the spectrum, we have
something like a meat inspector or an OSHA inspector,
who may have a limited ability to carry out searches,
but these are searches that are in really a law
enforcement capacity -- an administrative capacity as
opposed to a core law enforcement capacity.
So the government raises the argument, and
we think it's a plausible interpretation, that by using
the term "officer" rather than any employee of the
United States, that there was some limiting factor
imported into the statute, thereby the statute's plain
language.
And I would trust my colleague from the
Solicitor General's office to map the boundaries of
that. I would say that in any case, a correctional
officer, who are the individuals who are involved here
in committing the complained-of acts, certainly falls
much closer to core law enforcement on that spectrum
than to the administrative side.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: As a general matter, first
in the States and then in the Federal Government, is a
correctional officer or prison guard usually deemed to
be a peace officer?
MR. PAOLELLA: The -- yes. In many States
that use the term "peace officer" in the statutes
defining a peace officer for things -- for example,
authorizing the use of force or authorizing the carriage
of weapons -- many States -- it's not uniform, but many
States include correctional officers within that ambit.
The Federal Government typically does not
use the term "peace officer" in its statutes, but if you
look at Federal statutes that use the term "law
enforcement officer," which is the very term that's used
in subsection (h), many -- many of those other statutory
schemes expressly include correctional officers. So,
for example, for purposes of civil service pay, for
purposes of death benefits, of retirement benefits.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't prove that
they're officers. I mean, that's -- that's not the test
for an officer, how much you're paid. The test is
whether you exercise significant authority under the
laws of the United States. That's a pretty fuzzy line,
but I'm not sure that a prison guard exercises
significant authority under the laws of the United
States.
MR. PAOLELLA: I would think in the context
of the prison, it's hard to imagine how a prison guard
could exercise any more authority than they do. In
addition to their correctional function, prison
correctional officers are essentially the police force
for the prison.
They are charged with maintaining order, and
they're charged with enforcing the laws of the United
States within the confines of the prison, and indeed in
some specified cases, outside the prison walls. For
example, they are explicitly authorized under Section
3050 of Title 18 of the U.S. Code not just to carry out
arrests in prison for violations of Federal law, both by
prisoners and visitors, but to carry out arrests outside
the prison walls to prevent prisoner escapes or to
prevent assaults on other law enforcement officers. So
there's quite expressly an arrest authority granted to
correctional officers. In addition, they have the power
to search for contraband, both in the context of
visitors to prison and prisoners themselves.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, you've argued
something slightly different than I took from your
briefs. Earlier, in response I think to
Justice Ginsburg, you were queueing closer to the
Solicitor General's position that this has to be limited
in some way. And you said you'll let them establish the
boundaries. I don't want to let them establish the
boundaries.
I want you to tell me, is it criminal law
enforcement agents, is it law enforcement agents with --
acting -- as the Ninth Circuit says -- acting within a
law enforcement activity? Because I am finding it hard
to figure out why we shouldn't permit tort liability on
an OSHA inspector, who, in inspecting whatever he or she
is inspecting punches someone or does some intentional
assaultive act, why they should be permitted to do that.
Assuming it falls within the definition of a law
enforcement activity.
MR. PAOLELLA: Justice Sotomayor, let me
begin answering that question by making a distinction
which I think is an important distinction here, between
the definition of status and the definition of the
conduct that's implied here. Because I think this is a
crucial difference between the amicus's argument on one
hand and the Solicitor General's office on the other
hand.
The amicus would limit the type of conduct
that's covered by the statute. They would limit it to
actions that occur in a law enforcement capacity. So
I'm not sure exactly what that means. I think that gets
passed along with ---
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think they're saying
is arrests, search and seizure, and whatever the third
was.
MR. PAOLELLA: Or some other similar
activities, which, again, I'm not sure addresses the
topic --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But let's define it more
broadly. Let's assume I was willing to define it to
include all of the activities that a law enforcement
agent would engage in, including protective services,
security services, like your officers.
MR. PAOLELLA: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume that we've
defined it more broadly. What's the problem with their
position?
MR. PAOLELLA: The problem with their
position is -- with the amicus --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And of -- yes, with
amicus's or the government's, meaning, instead of
limiting it to criminal activity, limited to law
enforcement activities broadly defined.
MR. PAOLELLA: The problem with amicus's
requirement is that it has no textual basis in the
statute. The statute is very precise.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I will give you --
I'll give you a textual basis. Why is it if all the
statute is concerned about is the status of being a law
enforcement -- investigative or law enforcement
officer -- why is it that the exception it makes does
not eliminate the exemption for libel, slander,
misrepresentation, deceit or interference with contract
rights?
There is excepted from the provisions of the
Tort Claims Act any claim arising out of assault,
battery, false imprisonment, false arrest, malicious
prosecution, abusive process, libel, slander,
misrepresentation, deceit or interference with contract
rights.
However, for -- for purposes of this
exemption from the exemption -- the exception from the
exemption, they leave out the latter part. Why did they
only put in the others? I think the reason they only
put in the others is that those are the kind of torts
that would be conducted in the course of conducting a --
what's the words -- investigative or law enforcement
activity.
MR. PAOLELLA: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The others would not --
would not occur.
MR. PAOLELLA: I think that that is a
limiting factor that is not just implicit but explicit
in the statutory text.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but it's -- it's a
limiting factor that -- that shows, that displays an
intent to limit the -- the activities of investigative
or law enforcement officers to those activities
conducted in the course of investigating or enforcing
the law.
MR. PAOLELLA: Well, the fact that Congress
was so explicit about categorizing precisely the kind of
torts that are covered here -- that sort of conduct --
and the fact that Congress was so precise about
cross-referencing Section 1346(b), which incorporates of
the scope of employment requirement, suggests to me that
when Congress wanted to confine the capacity in which
the acts occurred, it could do so, and it did in fact do
so.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I understand --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would it leave out
those other ones? That's what I'm asking you. What
possible reason is there to leave out libel, slander,
misrepresentation, deceit, or interference with contract
rights?
MR. PAOLELLA: That was the policy judgment
that Congress made, that it would not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I didn't deny that
it's the judgment. What reason could there be for that
judgment?
MR. PAOLELLA: That it didn't think that
those sorts of torts in this context -- and I think we
all agree this is a law enforcement-oriented provision.
It's called the law enforcement proviso.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I give you a reason.
MR. PAOLELLA: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The reason -- the reason
they left it out is that they don't think those torts
would be committed in the course of investigating or
enforcing the law.
MR. PAOLELLA: I think that's right,
Your Honor, but that doesn't mean that from that we
ought to draw an entirely extra-textual additional
limitation that goes beyond the specific line that
Congress did, in fact, draw here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Your view is that the
limitation is scope of employment.
MR. PAOLELLA: That's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The scope of employment
is, and you don't add on anything else to that. You
don't add arrest, search and seizure.
But does this whole issue have an academic
flavor, because how in the world could the conduct
involved in this case qualify as within the scope of
employment?
MR. PAOLELLA: First of all, Your Honor, I
think that the question of scope of employment was
something that was conceded below. It was never
litigated. It was never briefed before the Respondents'
brief. And from my reading of the question presented as
this Court formulated it, it was excluded from the
question presented. So I don't think this Court needs
to address it. It's more properly addressed on remand
if it's important.
But here I think that there is an argument
that's within the scope of employment. And if you look
at cases, for example the Mary M. case out of the
California Supreme Court, there the California Supreme
Court held that a sexual assault by a law enforcement
officer of an individual who was subject to that
officer's authority could be held to be within the scope
of employment, because an officer is vested with
authority and it is reasonably foreseeable that that
authority can sometimes be abused if it happens when the
officer is in uniform, on job hours, dealing with
someone who that individual is authorized to use
appropriate force against.
And even in Pennsylvania, you see cases
where people do outrageous things, like a private
detective shooting a picketing protester, where the
Pennsylvania courts have held that that's within the
scope of employment.
It's a complicated issue. It's an issue of
State law and it will be different in every State, which
is why I would suggest it's more appropriate for this to
be handled on remand rather than have a ruling by this
Court on a narrow issue of Pennsylvania State law. But
I think it is hardly implausible that Pennsylvania
courts would find this within the scope of employment.
Your Honor, if there's no further questions,
I will reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Yang.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY A. YANG,
FOR RESPONDENT, SUPPORTING REVERSAL AND REMAND
MR. YANG: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
The text and structure of the law
enforcement proviso in the Federal Tort Claims Act more
generally make clear that the proviso unambiguously
waives sovereign immunity for claims arising under the
six intentional torts listed for acts or omissions of
persons qualifying as Federal law enforcement officers
while acting within their scope of employment.
Nothing in the statute supports amicus's
additional limit, which would require such officers to
be acting in a law enforcement capacity or by exercising
law enforcement authority, neither of which phrase
occurs within the statute itself. Quite the contrary --
JUSTICE KAGAN: What are the kinds of
things, Mr. Yang, that would be within the scope of
employment, but would not be acting within a law
enforcement capacity for a law enforcement officer?
What's the difference between those two standards for a
law enforcement officer?
MR. YANG: Well, this is complicated by the
fact that for the Federal Tort Claims Act, scope of
employment is a question that turns on State law. As a
result it will vary. Some States have a rather broad
understanding of scope of employment and sometimes in
fact will encompass within the scope of employment
rather egregious intentional torts. It's not
necessarily what the Court might think of as within the
scope of one's Federal law enforcement authority.
So with respect to law enforcement
authority, I mean, this -- that makes the question a
little more difficult because that is not something that
actually appears in the statute and it's not something
that the United States embraces as a test because it is
a creation of the amicus.
What the statute here does, the only term --
the only place that it uses law enforcement is in the
defined term "investigative or law enforcement officer"
and then what it does in defining that term --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you can't give me just a
couple of examples of how the difference would matter,
you know, in some States, where something would be --
would meet the scope of employment test, but not meet
the acting as a law enforcement officer test, for a law
enforcement officer again.
MR. YANG: Again, acting as a law
enforcement officer test is not something that appears
in the statute and it's not something that even amicus
has tried to meet the limitations of. It could mean
various things. It could mean, for instance, something
as limited as executing a search, seizing evidence or
making an arrest. That would be the Pooler type of
rationale.
It could be something incident to that,
writing a report, as amicus suggests. It could be other
things. Law enforcement officers often aren't doing the
very things that we're talking about. They go on
patrol, they talk to kids in schools. There are all
types of things that law enforcement officers might do
that don't fall within what might thing -- what one
might think of as what, you know, you see on television
when officers are making contact with the public in
rather high stakes incidents.
So it's difficult both because we have a
State law term that varies and a term that doesn't even
appear in the statute and that we don't embrace. So
again, it's difficult to provide examples in any
definitive way because both of the comparators shift
depending on what we're talking about.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Yang, even if --
if -- it depends on State law, that's clear. But does
the United States sometimes concede scope of authority
so it can represent -- it can be the sole defendant in
the case, the individual officer is off the hook, so
that the United States could make the argument: It
never happened; the officer didn't do what the plaintiff
charged?
MR. YANG: I believe, if I understand your
question correctly, the answer is yes, but let me
qualify that. This came up in a case called
Osborne v. Haley. And the question about scope of
employment for purposes of the Westfall Act turns on
whether at the time of the alleged incident the officer,
or employee in many cases, was acting within the scope
of his or her employment.
Now, when the United States investigates,
this is authority that is delegated to the Attorney
General, which is in turn redelegated to the U.S.
Attorney's offices, investigates the relevant
circumstances and determines that the allegations are
just false, not correct at all, in fact it never
happened, the employee was sitting at his or her desk
beavering away at important Federal matters, in that
instance, the Government will say that the employee was
in fact acting within the scope of his or her employment
and can explain that the reason for that is the
Government rejects the underlying factual assertion.
That's something that then is litigated if
the Plaintiff seeks to challenge the scope
determination. And the Court's decision in Osborne
explains that this is how the situation will play out,
is that then the merits of the case ultimately condense
into a challenge to the scope certification of the
Attorney General.
So, no, we don't simply say they were within
scope for no reason. We determine whether they were
within scope by evaluating the circumstances at issue
and if the alleged circumstances did not occur and the
employee was acting within the scope properly, we will
certify that the employee was acting within the scope.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you go back and
tell me, yet again -- you give a limiting principle, but
I'm not sure how it applies. You seem to be saying --
do you agree with your -- with the Petitioner that law
enforcement officer includes correction officers?
MR. YANG: It does.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And why? Because they
have all of those other powers, so how is that different
from those in the civil area who have similar powers to
arrest, search and seize, to --
MR. YANG: Well, I guess there are two
elements to the definition of investigative or law
enforcement officer within the statute. First, they
have to be an officer of the United States. And the
term "officer" when we are talking about Federal
officers, the dictionary definition that most commonly
and comfortably applies here, are ones that we're
talking about like sheriffs, constables, bailiffs,
people who have normal Federal criminal law enforcement
-- well, not Federal but criminal law enforcement
responsibilities.
That -- you know, when you back out to the
second criteria, we think that reinforces --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How about Customs
agents?
MR. YANG: Customs agents? I don't know if
they have criminal -- I believe if we assume that they
are simply doing a civil function, Custom agents would
not fall within the term "officer" as normally applied.
Let me give you an example that the amicus
raises, Federal forest employees -- Forest Service
employees. Forest Service employees, the clerks that
work in D.C. are not what one would normally think of as
an officer, particularly when we are talking about the
phrase "law enforcement officer."
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: My problem is park
employees I think of as officers when you meet them at
the parks. They are guarding the parks.
MR. YANG: Some, some --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or they may also be
giving tours. They are usually doing sort of a mixture
of --
MR. YANG: Actually, I don't think that
is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- duties.
MR. YANG: -- that's correct, Your Honor.
The Forest Service, as other park -- the Park Service,
has different roles for various individuals within their
employ. And there are, in fact, law enforcement
officers in the Park Service, and there are law
enforcement officers in the Forest Service, and their
duties are what one would traditionally think of as law
enforcement.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Yang, the United States
didn't take this position below, right?
MR. YANG: That is correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This is a change of heart.
How long ago was it that the United States took the
opposite position, the position argued by amicus here?
MR. YANG: Well, this is the Orsay position,
which is not the Pooler position I believe the Court is
talking about. Pooler, the Government has not taken the
view that the Third Circuit was correct and Pooler, as
far as I can tell, except within the Third Circuit, is
binding precedent.
Now, when we take a step back and abandon
Pooler's limited approach and apply a more amorphous law
enforcement capacity, law enforcement authority, the
Government has done that in a number of lower cases,
including several courts of appeals --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it couldn't be that
obvious, I guess?
MR. YANG: Well, I think in those cases the
Government took a position that never was a position
that made it to the Solicitor General's office. And
when we took this -- both in the Reynolds case when
there was an adverse decision to the United States and
in this case, we determined that the position was not
one that could be -- was not correct under the text.
And I think, as amicus's -- amicus does, I
think, a valiant job of trying to defend that position,
but at the end of the day, there simply is not a textual
argument to get to that outcome.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think it is true that
there is a strong textual argument for your position.
But let me ask this: Are there any studies or any
statistics we can look at to see as a predictive matter
how many prison suits against the government this ruling
that you propose would -- would cause? It seems to me
we have close to 200,000 Federal prisoners, I think, and
this prison work, there is a lot of shoving, guards have
to break up fights.
So there is going to be any number of
instances where the question is did the guard overreach.
And if I make the assumption, and it's just an
assumption because I haven't looked at any statistics,
but there is -- this is going to vastly expand the
number of cases in which the Government is the
defendant. Doesn't that bear on the likelihood of the
congressional intent to adopt your position?
MR. YANG: I guess there is a few parts to
that question. On the statistics, I am not aware of any
statistics that we would be able to reliably extrapolate
to see what this would mean. I think there may well be
some additional cases. However, there are other tools,
as we explain in our reply brief, including the Prison
Litigation Reform Act, which requires the prisoners both
pay their filing fees and if they obtain three strikes,
must in fact -- they lose IFP status and must pay that
filing fee in advance, and it's a substantial amount of
money for many prisoners, given what they earn.
So we think that it's not a reason to ignore
what we think is the plain text, particularly where
Congress here has in the proviso specifically referenced
Section 1346(b). Section 1346(b) makes clear that the
waiver of sovereign immunity applies to acts or
omissions committed within the scope of employment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can you suggest why
Congress might have left out libel, slander,
misrepresentation?
MR. YANG: Yes. I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why would they leave
that out if they are only looking at the office and not
at the function that the person is performing?
MR. YANG: Well, I think that those torts
serve as a rough approximation of what Congress
anticipated would be the areas where it thought the
United States should be liable, when we are talking
about Federal law enforcement officers. And I think in
fact --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. I mean, that's the
point. So what you are saying is that it suggests that
they mean Federal law enforcement officers engaged in
law enforcement.
MR. YANG: Well, not -- I don't know that
that is the case, Justice Scalia. Certainly there is
some correlation between those torts and how we should,
for instance, understand "officer of the United States,"
things like false imprisonment, false arrest, malicious
prosecution. All evoke Federal criminal law employment
ideas. However, when we look at the text that Congress
used to implement the statute, the text is not like any
of the other instances within the Federal Tort Claims
Act, where Congress has limited the waiver to particular
types of activities or carved out certain activities.
In fact, what Congress did was reference
back to the general waiver provision which explains that
the waiver applies to acts within the scope of
employment.
If Congress had wanted, for instance, to say
only within law enforcement capacity, it would have used
very different language. The language of sections --
the other provisions in Sections 2680, for instance,
subsections (a), (b), and (c), which limit -- which
carve out the execution of a statute or regulation,
exercise of discretionary functions, the laws of
miscarriage or negligent transmission of postal matter,
assessment or collection of taxes or customs duties, (f)
specifically directs -- carves out the imposition or
establishment of a quarantine, (j) carves out the
combatant activities of military forces. If Congress
wanted to use similar language like law enforcement
activities of a law enforcement officer, it would have
done that.
And the United States -- I don't want to
bang the drums too loudly here. We did take a contrary
position previously, but when our office reviewed the
case, we simply determined that the position could not
be one that would square to the test.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume we adopted
the definition Justice Scalia just proposed, law
enforcement officer engaged in law enforcement
activities. Would correction officers be engaged in law
enforcement activities?
MR. YANG: Well, yes -- maybe yes, maybe no.
What we are talking about is an undefined term and the
term does not even -- does not appear in the statute.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you can look at it
both ways. Are correction officers as officers who are
protecting or securing prisoners, are they acting in a
law enforcement capacity in your -- forget about what
act, what tort they commit, but do they function --
MR. YANG: There could be many answers to
that question.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Okay.
MR. YANG: You could, as the amicus or as
the Petitioner suggests, say that the enforcement of a
criminal sentence is part of law enforcement capacity,
so anything that they do is law enforcement.
You could think of law enforcement capacity
as more like arrests, you know, searches for violations
of Federal criminal law, and that sort of thing. Those
might be exercises that the Court would have to engage
in if Congress had actually used text directing the
Court to look at that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. YANG: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Bucholtz.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY S. BUCHOLTZ,
FOR AMICUS CURIAE, IN SUPPORT OF THE JUDGMENT BELOW,
APPOINTED BY THIS COURT
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
I hope to convince the Court of two things
today. First is about our reading of the law
enforcement proviso as limited to conduct of
investigative or law enforcement officers acting as
such. The first is that that reading is textually
plausible. It is a reasonable reading of what Congress
enacted in light of the structure of the statute and in
light of ordinary English usage.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask, in light of
your opening statement, are you then abandoning your
position that it must be either arrest, search or
seizure? You have used the Ninth Circuit formula.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Well, Justice Ginsburg, it's
not really clear how different the Ninth Circuit and the
Third Circuit are from each other, because there haven't
been cases that have arisen that have really tested the
proposition that the Third Circuit meant only, literally
only, the execution of a search, the seizure of
evidence, or the making of an arrest, and that would
exclude conduct very closely incident to one of those
things. Those cases just haven't arisen.
So the courts have used different
formulations. They appear to mean slightly different
things by them, but I wouldn't want to exaggerate the
differences between the Third Circuit and the Ninth
Circuit. Both are trying to capture what Congress was
getting at here, which was the law enforcement proviso
was about law enforcement activity. It was about
covering the United States under the FTCA for abuses of
law enforcement authority like had occurred in
Collinsville, which was the national scandal that
prompted the enactment of the proviso.
So I think the answer to, Justice Ginsburg,
to your question, is: We think that if you take the
Third Circuit's language in Pooler, which of course is
not this case, but if you take the Pooler language
literally and you say that the only conduct covered is
conduct in the course of -- that's language the Court
used a few times in Pooler -- in the course of a search,
an arrest, or a seizure of evidence, that's problematic
because it's clear that Congress was trying to cover
abuses of law enforcement authority, including malicious
prosecution and abuse of process, which we know because
Congress included those torts in the exception to the
exception. And if you had a situation where an officer
conducted a search and then wrote a false report about
the search that he had conducted, the writing of the
report wouldn't literally be in the course of the
search. So if you take those words in Pooler literally,
that would be excluded. That can't be right.
So to that extent we agree with the Ninth
Circuit position rather than the Third Circuit position.
But again I'm not really sure that it's fair to
attribute that extreme position to the Third Circuit.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Bucholtz, the statute
itself has a kind of conduct-based limitation in it. It
says law enforcement officers acting within the scope of
their employment.
So I guess my question is, given that there
is that conduct-based limitation in the statute, why one
would substitute for it law enforcement officers acting
as law enforcement officers? Why wouldn't one use just
the conduct-based limitation that's already there?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Justice Kagan, I don't think
it's a substitution. I think it's an addition if it's
anything. But really the reason is that under ordinary
English usage, when there's a reference to somebody
defined by their status, it's fair to assume that the
reference to the person defined by their status is
really just intended to cover things they do in that
relevant status and not things they do in some other
capacity.
What we're asking the Court to do here is
exactly what the Court did in Lane v. Pena. In Lane v.
Pena, the statute at issue was the Rehabilitation Act.
It waived sovereign immunity and provided a damages
remedy against Federal providers of funding. The
Department of Transportation clearly was a Federal
provider of funding. It gave out all sorts of funding
to all sorts of recipients.
But that's not what the case was about. The
case was about the Merchant Marine Academy and somebody
who was dismissed from it. And what the Court said is
the reference to Federal funding providers like the
Department of Transportation had to be read as limited
to Federal funding providers acting as such. Those were
the Court's words, "acting as such."
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Okay. And then -- then
take that theory and track through the statute to show
me how that theory works, which is what your opening
argument was going to do?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Justice Kennedy, in the first
sentence of the proviso, the operative provision,
Congress referred to acts or omissions of investigative
or law enforcement officers of the United States.
Congress didn't say any acts or omissions of
investigative or law enforcement officers were covered.
It didn't say all were covered. It just said acts or
omissions of law enforcement officers in the same way
that the statute at issue in Lane referred to conduct of
a Federal funding provider.
And so what this Court should do, we submit,
is construe acts or omissions of investigative or law
enforcement officers of the United States as limited to
acts or omissions of those defined -- that defined class
of persons in the relevant capacity, when they're acting
as law enforcement officers.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But again, it's not just any
acts of law enforcement officers. It's acts of law
enforcement officers acting within the scope of their
authority. And now you're saying acting as a law
enforcement officer. I mean, one question I suppose I
have, which is the same question that I gave to Mr.
Yang, is what's the difference between those two things?
And I guess the second question is: Why would we
substitute one phrase about how they have to be acting
for the phrase that Congress actually used?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Congress didn't, in the
proviso, Justice Kagan, Congress did not actually use
the phrase "scope of employment." It did not actually
incorporate scope of employment as a limitation
explicitly in the proviso. It -- it incorporated
1346(b), which contains the scope requirement. But the
proviso -- in the proviso, Congress did not actually
speak in terms of scope of employment as the operative
limitation. So I don't think we'd be substituting the
acting as such limitation for anything that actually
appears in the proviso.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it a limitation? Is
scope a limitation? I thought that you -- you didn't
question that, that scope is a limitation on the conduct
that's covered, right?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Justice Ginsburg, we
certainly agree that -- that the conduct that's covered
has to be within the scope of the Federal officer's
employment. The only point I was trying to make a
moment ago in response to Justice Kagan is that
requirement exists in 1346, not in the proviso by its
terms. We certainly agree with that, and as we've
argued in our brief, we think that one way the Court
could affirm the judgment below is to hold that the
officers here were not acting within the scope of their
employment, taking the allegations as true, as they have
to be at this stage of the case.
But to return to Justice Kagan, to your
question about why Congress would have wanted to -- the
Court to -- to interpret "acts or omissions of law
enforcement officers" as acting as such, it's because --
in part the answer is because scope turns on State law.
So Congress doesn't know when it enacts the proviso
what's going to be covered if the only limitation is
scope, because that turns on 50 different States' laws.
And -- and I think that it's fair to say that there are
actual meaningful differences between different States'
laws as to scope as we -- as we point out in our brief.
But the other past of the answer is the --
is the second part of this Court's analysis in Lane v.
Pena, which is it's entirely possible literally to read
the Rehabilitation Act in Lane, and I would grant that
it's possible literally to read the words in the
proviso, as covering everything that a defined law
enforcement officer does within the scope of employment.
But the Court said in Lane: We can't read the statute
that way, because we're talking about a waiver of
immunity, and waivers of immunity, even if you don't
have to put a heavy thumb on the scales and even if you
don't have to require that it be unequivocal -- we're
not going that far here -- you can't interpret it more
broadly than there's any reason to think Congress meant.
JUSTICE BREYER: What does it leave out?
What does it leave out, your theory? A policeman's a
law enforcement officer. What does he do on his job
that isn't in a law enforcement role?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Well, there may be certain
types of law enforcement officers, Justice Breyer, who
generally aren't engaged in law enforcement activity
when they're within the scope of employment. But that's
not the case with respect to correctional officers like
are at issue here.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, I see.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: And the reason for that is --
and other types of officers, which hopefully I'll be
able to get to, but correctional officers first since
that's what this case is about. 18 U.S.C. 3050 is what
makes correctional officers fall within the second
sentence of the proviso, the definition that Congress
provided of investigative or law enforcement officers.
It's what gives them the authority to execute --
JUSTICE BREYER: So your idea here is a park
policeman who is engaged in law enforcement some of the
time, but engaged in giving tours the rest of the time.
You're saying what you would do is say when he's engaged
in the law enforcement he's covered, but not when he's
engaged in the tour.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: That's right, because he
meets the status-based definition that Congress
provided, but there's no reason to think Congress
intended that he be covered when he's not engaged in law
enforcement activity.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. What -- what
is it about a corrections officer other than the act
that was committed here, which was an alleged sexual act
which nobody could, except by some definition of State
law, think that that ever happens naturally in the
course. But that's an intentional assault. The very
definition of the crimes that are covered assumes that
it's not an act that's licensed. So, why isn't the
correction officer acting in a law enforcement capacity
when he's restraining people and securing them?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Because the correctional
officer essentially has two capacities. 18 U.S.C.
3050, which is the only source of law that anyone has
pointed to, to make correctional officers fall within
the definition of law enforcement officers in the first
place, it has nothing to do with correctional officers'
daily interaction with already incarcerated prisoners.
It authorizes correctional officers to arrest escaped
inmates and to arrest visitors to prisons. It has no
application to their daily interaction with
prisoners who are already incarcerated.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the takedown
that occurred here and I -- it's not uncommon. The --
your definition includes three things, arrest, search,
seizure. And correctional officers do engage in
searches of cells for contraband, and they do engage in
seizures. Those are not -- this isn't like arrest,
which you point out the arrest is unusual; it's an
escapee or a visitor. But that's not true of search and
seizure.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Justice Ginsburg,
correctional officers do search prisoners' cells on a
routine basis as part of their duty to maintain order
and security within the prisons. That responsibility
comes not from 18 U.S.C. 3050, but from 18 U.S.C. 4001
and following, which is an entirely different set of
legal authorities that has to do with the Attorney
General's management of the Bureau of Prisons under his
supervision and correctional officers -- and 28 C.F.R.
Part 552, which is where the correctional officers get
their authority from to search prisoner cells, et
cetera.
We think that when -- when correctional
officers are engaged in that kind of activity, they're
acting in a security capacity to maintain order and
security within the prison. They're not acting in their
very narrow law enforcement capacity conferred by 18
U.S.C. 3050. This case doesn't have --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, what happens --
what happens in the police precinct when police officers
are holding pretrial detainees? Are they acting as
police officers or as security people? Or even when a
prisoner comes back to court for a court appearance and
there are U.S. marshals who guard them rather than
correction officers, what are they serving as in your
mind?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Well, as I said before,
Justice Sotomayor, I think there are certain types of
law enforcement officers who generally when they're
acting within the scope of employment are engaged in law
enforcement activity. And deputy U.S. marshals would
probably fall within that. But the important point
about this case is it doesn't, Justice Ginsburg, involve
an allegation about a search. So whatever the Court
might think the right way to look at correctional
officers when they're engaged in searches might be, this
case isn't about a search.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why isn't this -- why
isn't what the prison guard does law enforcement? I
mean, the law says these people are going to be locked
up and he's enforcing that.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: The law is already --
JUSTICE BREYER: He's going to be in prison
under these da, da, da, da, da. You know, all that da,
da, da means the conditions of the prison, et cetera,
they're all regulations, rules, statutes. He's
enforcing them, why not?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Justice Breyer, I think we
can tell from the definition in the proviso what
Congress was focused on when it -- when it referred to
law enforcement officers. We can tell what Congress --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, so now you're saying
what those three things could provide the definition?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: And -- and -- and other
conduct that --
JUSTICE BREYER: And are you saying that?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: -- I used before is yes, with
the caveat, and I think it's an important one, that it's
not just those three things, only what occurs in the
course of those three things the way Pooler could
possibly be read, but also conduct that's closely
incident to those things.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you don't think the
EPA is engaged in law enforcement when it enforces
statutes and regulations, do you?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: It depends, Justice Scalia,
it depends --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would an officer of the EPA
be a law enforcement officer when he writes a letter to
a company saying, You know, you are violating section
such-and-such of the statute? Is that a law enforcement
officer?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Well, the person who writes
the letter may qualify as a law enforcement officer
under the definition, but that's a different question, I
would submit, than whether that -- whether that act
constitutes law enforcement activity.
I think the answer to that question,
Justice Scalia, is probably no, but the important
follow-up is if that person meets the definition of law
enforcement officer because he's an EPA agent, and after
the letter he follows up and goes to the premises of the
recipient of the letter, knocks down the door and
conducts an illegal search, that's what Congress was
trying to cover.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, but EPA is not what
I'm thinking of, I don't think they are. I am thinking
of police. Okay. Now, one basic job of a policeman is
to patrol, but not arresting people, not searching and
not seizing evidence. They are on patrol. That's
basically what they do. All right? Is that a law
enforcement activity?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: If it's an FBI agent?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, yeah, yeah, but I
mean in places -- it's Federal, I understand. So I'm
sure we can find analogies in the Federal situation to
ordinary policemen.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Justice Breyer, the answer --
the answer -- well, it might not be so easy to find an
analogy to an ordinary policeman --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But FBI agents,
who are the federal police, they're people on Federal
enclaves, for example, there are -- they are on Federal
enclaves, they act like policemen, okay.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Sure. And when they are
engaged in patrols, I think it's fair to say that's
probably law enforcement activity --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. That's fair. I
mean, what I'm thinking of is either you can have a
broad definition or one that's going to get into trouble
when we consider real policemen. So if you have a broad
one, then I don't see how prison guards get out of it.
If you have a narrow one, my guess is we could find lots
of Federal policemen who really are policemen who aren't
doing what falls -- who are doing what falls outside
your narrow definition. I wish I could think of better
examples, but I came up with the ones I did.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Then maybe I should try to
return to some of the examples that other Justices have
given. So there was talk earlier about an OSHA
inspector. The Government's position -- and I think
this is an important difference between our position and
the Government's -- the Government would say that
because OSHA isn't a criminal law in the traditional
sense and an OSHA inspector or an OSHA agent isn't
enforcing criminal law in the colloquial sense, that
that shouldn't be covered.
But if the OSHA inspector knocks down your
door and conducts an illegal search and batters you, why
shouldn't that be covered? We know that's a law
enforcement abuse, and we know that law enforcement
abuse is exactly what Congress is trying to get at. The
Government, it's like it's trying to relitigate Marshall
against Barlows where this Court held that OSHA
inspectors have to have a warrant even though you could
think of OSHA as being administrative or civil as
opposed to criminal. That's the argument that the
Government made there a generation ago and they lost.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So how does that argument
help your case?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Because, Justice Kennedy, the
point in this case is that we agree that correctional
officers fall within the plain language of the
definition that Congress provided. Again, the structure
of the proviso is there are two sentences, an operative
provision and the definition.
We are trying to get the Court to construe
the operative provision, the first sentence, in the same
way the Court did in Lane against Pena. The Government
is trying to get the Court to construe the definition,
the second sentence. What Congress said in the
definition, what the term means, the Court has much less
scope to construe that in some way other than the
literal language that Congress provided where Congress
said what the term means.
So we agree under the plain language of the
definition that correctional officers are investigative
or law enforcement officers because of 18 U.S.C. 3050,
which gives them the power under limited, and
inapplicable here, circumstances to arrest.
We think that if you look at correctional
officers under 18 U.S.C. 3050 or under the different
authorities under 18 U.S.C. 4001 and following and the
regulations, that they wear two hats. Sometimes they
act in a law enforcement capacity, but not usually,
because that only applies in the narrow context of
escapes or visitors. When they are dealing with already
incarcerated prisoners, like in the allegations here,
they are really not acting in that capacity at all.
They are wearing a different hat.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are saying that the
Government is trying to minimize the consequences of
coming out its way by providing a definition of the
officers covered, which will not hold. You think it
does cover a broader category of officers including OSHA
inspectors, but it does not cover them when they are not
engaged in law enforcement activities.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Justice Scalia, you have
absolutely perfectly encapsulated our position. Thank
you.
(Laughter.)
MR. BUCHOLTZ: The reason why we think that
that difference between our position and the
Government's is important is that the Government's
position would render the proviso severely
underinclusive. We know Congress was trying to get at
law enforcement abuses and provide a remedy. And
Congress -- the Government would say that if it's not a
traditional law enforcement officer in the colloquial
sense of like a constable, that it's not covered. But
all sorts of agents of the United States from OSHA to
FDA to all sorts of other agencies, to EPA, engage in
law enforcement activity like the three things we know
Congress was focused like a laser beam on: Executing
searches, seizing evidence, making arrests for
violations of Federal law. And I don't see any basis
consistent with the text or our understanding of what
Congress intended, to the extent it's different from the
text, to say that that's not covered.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: One other advantage of
your definition is that it takes us out of workplace
fights between two employees, because presumably the
officers who punch each other out, if that incident
occurs, aren't acting in a law enforcement capacity. I
am assuming that is part of your argument as well.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: That's part of it, that's
right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Then it goes
back to the question I asked one of your adversaries,
which is all of this depends on how broadly or narrowly
we define law enforcement activities.
If we take it as broadly as the Government
is suggesting, at moments, it would -- we could very
well say, you are right, it's a law enforcement
activity, but not as narrowly as some would have it be.
It would include securing or detaining people, or
securing or detaining people. And it would include the
Park Service person who stops a visitor and punches them
out. It would include the military personnel who stops
someone and does an intentional tort against them, even
though they may just be walking on the grounds rather
than serving as security that particular day.
So the point is, why should we give it the
narrow reading you are giving, and not the broader
reading the Government seems to be suggesting?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Well, two parts to the
answer, Justice Sotomayor. The first is the Government
is trying to give the first sentence the broader
reading, which it recognizes then creates a problem that
it tries to solve by narrowing the second sentence in a
way that we think won't hold.
But the other part of the answer,
Justice Sotomayor, is it's about congressional intent.
Justice Kennedy asked earlier about whether the
Government's interpretation or the Petitioner's
interpretation would unleash a flood of suits by
prisoners and whether it's fair to think that Congress
would have intended that. If you look at the
legislative history of the proviso, there is absolutely
no indication that anyone in Congress contemplated that
the proviso would or could or should apply in the prison
situation. All Congress was focused on was providing a
remedy for the kinds of raids that had occurred in
Collinsville.
And so I think when somebody has two hats,
like a prison guard has, because, again, there is two
different sources of legal authority that they are
exercising, 18 U.S.C. 3050 versus 4001, or a military
policeman who has two hats, in the cases of Holian that
we describe in our briefs where the Government made the
argument that where a military policeman is engaged in a
military function, not a law enforcement function, that
they are not covered.
We think where somebody who meets the
definition that Congress provided of an investigative or
law enforcement officer has two distinct hats, two
distinct capacities. When they are not acting in the
law enforcement one, they are not covered. There is no
reason to think that Congress intended that military
police or prison guards be covered when they are
maintaining order on a military base or within a prison.
That's not what Congress was trying to get at.
And we think again a severe disadvantage of
the Government's position, they are trying to solve --
in a sense they are trying to solve the same problem
that we are with our acting as such interpretation, but
they are trying to solve it through the wrong part of
the statute and in a way that -- in a way ends up with
the worst of both worlds.
You end up with broader coverage of the kind
of conduct that's covered, broader than there is any
reason to think Congress intended, conduct that doesn't
involve law enforcement activity at all, but a narrower
class of people whose conduct is covered. Where that
excludes people like OSHA inspectors, FDA agents, EPA
agents and in the rare circumstance where the Forest
Service employee is acting as a law enforcement officer
rather than as a botanist or an entomologist or
something like that, we think Congress intended to cover
them.
We know from the definition that there were
three exercises of law enforcement authority that
Congress was focused like a laser beam on: Executing
searches, seizing evidence and making arrests. Where
somebody meets the definition of law enforcement officer
and they are doing one of those three things, there is
no basis not to say that they are covered.
We think it's better to interpret the first
sentence of the proviso the same way the Court did in
Lane against Pena as limited to acts or omissions of
investigative or law enforcement officers acting as
such, and keep the definition that Congress provided the
way Congress provided it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then scope becomes kind
of a surplusage.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Not surpluses necessarily,
Justice Ginsburg, because it varies among States. There
could be States where scope is narrower or broader, and
there could always be situations where State law is such
that the easiest way to resolve a case is under scope,
and not under the concept of acting as a law enforcement
officer.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It has to be a law
enforcement function. Give -- give me an example of a
case where -- where scope would also be relevant, would
also be applicable -- if you -- if there is a law
enforcement function, then it fits. So what does scope
add?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Well, if an officer is
executing a search but he's doing so because of a
personal vendetta against the person whose premises he's
searching, and he's -- and he's not -- under whatever
the State -- State's law that is applicable, if there is
a relatively narrow conception of scope so that you have
to be trying to serve your employer, which is the
traditional rule, and not just sort of on the job in a
loose sense, which is what the D.C. rule has come to be,
an officer who is engaged in a search or making --
making an arrest for a completely inappropriate reason,
not trying to serve the employer, not in any way that's
authorized by the employer, might not be within the
scope, but might be engaged in one of the three law
enforcement activities that Congress specified. And the
other --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: A prisoner -- a prisoner
is supposed to be back in his cell block at 6:00 in the
evening, he isn't, he's on the recreation yard, he's
somewhat recalcitrant, and two guards carry him back to
the cell block. Is that an arrest?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: No, Justice Kennedy, it's not
an arrest, for, among other reasons, the reason that
prison guards don't have any legal authority to make an
arrest in that circumstance.
The prisoner's already been arrested.
That's how he got to jail in the first place.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, he's violating the
prison regulations.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Yes. And 28 CFR part 552
sets out the authorities that prison guards have to
enforce prison regulations to maintain security and
order within the prison, like in that circumstance.
That's not making an arrest. The prison guards have the
authority --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's not a law
enforcement function as contemplated by the statute, in
your view?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: That's correct,
Justice Kennedy. That -- that may involve the use of
force and I -- you know, you can make an argument that
-- that when you pick somebody up like in your
hypothetical, that that's like an arrest at common law.
There's no reason to think Congress was getting at that,
was trying to cover that in the proviso.
Where somebody has two different distinct
capacities as a matter of law, the way Bureau of Prisons
guards do, and they're acting in the one and not the
other, then I think that's the simple answer, is that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the difference
between the officer who punches the prisoner to get him
on the ground and pick him up? Would it apply to the
officer who files an arrest complaint against the
prisoner, and not to the security officer who just
merely carries him back to his cell?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Justice Sotomayor, the
hypothetical is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or does some physical
injury that's substantial. So the intentional assault
gets treated as an exception to this only when the
security officer actually files an arrest complaint? Or
would it at all?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Are you talking about a
Bureau of Prison guard filing the arrest complaint?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Well, I think -- one thing to
point out is the government informs the Court in its
reply brief that in a situation where there has been a
violation of prison rules that may also be a violation
of Federal law that may also be a crime, such that, you
know, in ordinary English usage, you could refer to the
prison guard as conducting an investigation for
violation of a Federal crime.
What happens is the BOP guards don't do that
themselves. They call in the FBI. That's what the
government says in its reply brief. So I think that
itself is an indication of the distinction between
prison guards who are law enforcement officers as
Congress has defined the term, but who are not
traditional law enforcement officers, as the government
seeks to define -- redefine the term, and in that
capacity are not acting as law enforcement officers.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Bucholtz, I'm sure you
have done this already, so I apologize, but could you
just state your definition of what it means to be acting
as a law enforcement officer? What activities other
than the three listed get included?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Well, Justice Kagan, it's
hard to give a simple comprehensive answer that applies
to all different types of law enforcement officers. Let
me start by saying that the three things that have to be
included are the three things that Congress specified,
and that's one of the problems with the government's
definition, is that it reads out cases involves those
three activities, involving, in the government's view --
kinds of officers.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you don't have your own
-- so what else gets in the mix? How would you define
it generally?
MR. BUCHOLTZ: So -- in a case that involves
one of those three things but also something else that's
incident to or related to those three things, we think
it would probably be artificial. And you can imagine
all sorts of hypos, but it might well be artificial to
separate the writing of the -- of the report about the
arrest and the arrest itself. So conduct incident to
one of these three specified activities we think is
probably covered. We also think that maybe when you are
talking about a type of law enforcement officer like an
FBI agent who is wearing his law enforcement hat all the
time, doesn't have a second distinct capacity as a
matter of law, like a military policeman or correctional
officer, that maybe a broader definition is appropriate,
that maybe the FBI agent who is --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Maybe? I mean, yes or no or
when or --
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Well, I mean, Justice Kagan,
in fairness, this case doesn't present that question,
because it doesn't involve any law enforcement activity.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But if we're going to adopt
your definition, we have to have some understanding of
where it's taking us.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Of course. Of course. And
where I think it would be taking the Court is that as
always, there could be hard cases that could arise that
the lower courts would have to grapple with, but I think
the important concept is, that where somebody has two
hats, a law enforcement capacity and some other
capacity, then it's easy to draw that line, in concept.
Again, there could be hard cases, but as a concept, it's
easy to draw that line.
Where somebody doesn't have two hats, they
only have one hat, like an FBI agent, and they are on
the job and they are engaged in what normal people would
think of as law enforcement activity, maybe that's
covered. I don't really have a -- have a problem with
that.
I think -- I think that's probably
consistent with what Congress was getting at. And maybe
the way to think about it is, Congress defined "law
enforcement officer" with reference to the three
specified kinds of exercises of law enforcement
authority, but when the FBI agent is interviewing a
witness or potential suspect but hasn't yet gotten to
the point of arresting a person or conducting a search,
you can think of that as preliminary to an exercise of
one of the three specified authorities, because after
all, that's what the FBI agent has the authority to do,
it's what his job entails.
And depending on how the initial questioning
goes, that might be the next step. And so it's never
far from the scene, when an FBI agent is engaged in what
you would normally think of as law enforcement activity,
that one of the three specified law enforcement
activities could be in the offing.
That's very different when you're talking
about Forest Service employees who technically meet the
definition but usually are not doing anything within a
million miles of what normal people would think of as
law enforcement activity.
So I think it's important to distinguish
between different kinds of people who fall within the
definition. And -- I understand the Court wants to try
to figure out what the implications of this
interpretation would be. I think that in the prison
context, the answer is clear, because there are two
distinct capacities. And that's a hugely important
context as a practical matter, given the point that
Justice Kennedy made about the likelihood of an enormous
number of claims that Congress probably didn't intend.
In the military police context, where there
are also two distinct capacities, it's probably pretty
easy to draw the line. In other cases, it will be
case-by-case whether something that the Plaintiff
alleges should be thought of as law enforcement activity
or law enforcement officer acting as such. We don't
have a problem with the broad interpretation of law
enforcement activity acting as such, dealing with the
traditional law enforcement officer in a context that
it's clear Congress intended.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. BUCHOLTZ: Thank you very much, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Paolella, you
have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER J. PAOLELLA,
FOR PETITIONER, APPOINTED BY THIS COURT
MR. PAOLELLA: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Let me begin by addressing Justice Kennedy's
point, his question regarding the possibility of a flood
of lawsuits from prisoners. I think it's important to
keep in mind that right now, Pooler and Orsay are the
minority rules. Most Federal courts have adopted a
broad interpretation of the law enforcement proviso.
So if adopting a broader interpretation here
would open the flood gates, the flood gates are already
open, and they have been for 40 years in most of the
country. And we haven't seen a flood of FTCA suits
brought by prisoners, especially since the passage of
the PLRA --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Have they also adopted the
government's view of what counts as an officer, or have
they not?
MR. PAOLELLA: I -- I don't think that the
issue has really been litigated in the Federal courts.
It simply hasn't come up. And I think that that's an
indication that it's -- it's a workable test. It's --
it's not something -- that there are many, many cases,
the vast majority of cases, involve individuals who will
be by any reasonable definition core law enforcement
officers. As far as I am aware, every Federal court to
address the issue has defined correctional officers as
law enforcement officers. You know -- as officers, as
that term is used.
So I think that these things are really
ultimately noncontroversial.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you support the
government's position on who's an officer, right? So it
wouldn't include EPA. Is that --
MR. PAOLELLA: I think that the word
"officer" carries some water in this statute, and it
means something other than "employee."
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that a yes or a no?
MR. PAOLELLA: Yes.
Justice Scalia, let me return to your
earlier point about inferring congressional intent from,
for example, from the list of enumerated torts. And I
think it's important to keep in mind that the best
evidence of Congress's intent is the text of the
statute. And the fundamental problem with amicus's
position is that he very ably uses tools for construing
ambiguous statutes to construe a statute that at its
core is not ambiguous, it's precise and it's definite.
Now, the coverage that is created by the
literal words of the statute may be debatable as a
policy matter. Maybe it makes sense to include
correctional officers, maybe it doesn't. But it's not
absurd. And this Court's rule is when you were
construing a non-ambiguous statute, Congress gets to
draw that policy line, not the Court, as long as the
result is not absurd.
And we would argue that Congress drew that
policy line here. It very specifically provided that
any claim based on enumerated tort by a federal law
enforcement officer acting within the scope of his or
her employment, is where it drew that line, that's what
the statute literally says. There is no argument about
that. And I think that all of the results, the parade
of horribles that amicus has raised, again, may be
debatable as a policy matter, but not one of them is an
absurd exercise of Congress's responsibility. And as a
result, we would urge the Court to reverse.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Bucholtz, this Court appointed you as an
amicus curiae to brief and argue the case in support of
the judgment below, and you have ably discharged that
responsibility for which the Court is grateful.
Thank you. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:26 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
51:10,19 52:6 39:17 43:7 25:11 27:10 27:6 28:2 35:4
58:9 36:5,22 38:18 18:13 28:13 appears 15:7,21 50:13 52:5,5
44:6 46:14 41:8,22 applicable 47:22 arresting 39:5
54:2,9,24 55:2 allegations application 35:6 arrests 3:21
14:6 22:25 42:9 applies 18:12 8:8 25:25
43:3 32:9 47:6 alleges 54:24 51:13 asked 43:25
17:6 additional 11:22 2:10 8:2,23 55:11 58:3 12:23 34:17
24:3 14:10 22:14 15:9,22 16:4 approach 21:1 50:8
29:12 address 12:17 19:14 20:18 appropriate assaultive 7:16
34:13,14 56:11 21:14 25:20 13:6,14 52:12 assaults 6:21
38:17 addressed 12:17 26:9 57:23 approximation assertion 17:21
42:6 addresses 8:11 58:4 23:10 assessment
14:8,11 55:13 8:25 9:3 14:9 areas 23:11 Assistant 1:17
15:18,20 administrative 21:14 57:4 argue 57:16 assume 8:14,19
18:8,9 4:15 5:4 41:2 amorphous 21:1 58:4 19:11 25:4
26:16 adopt 22:9 amount 22:19 argued 7:1 29:5
29:23 52:19 analogies 39:12 20:18 32:2 assumes 34:18
30:18,22 adopted 25:4 analogy 39:16 argument 1:12 assuming 7:17
31:3,14 55:17,25 analysis 32:19 2:2,5,8,12 3:3 43:21
34:20 adopting 55:19 answer 17:3 3:7 4:17 7:24 assumption 22:4
advance 22:19 27:20 32:11,18 12:19 13:23 22:5
43:20 advantage 43:16 38:19 39:14,15 16:24 21:17,19 Attorney 17:11
46:7,18 adversaries 44:18,23 49:23 26:8 30:3 41:3 18:3 35:23
49:22 43:25 51:13 54:15 41:5 43:21 Attorney's
54:25 adverse 21:11 answering 7:20 45:17 49:15 17:13
57:19 affirm 32:3 answers 25:17 55:10 57:21 attribute 28:16
9:2 10:11 39:9 40:16 anticipated 14:5 49:5 53:21
24:4,4 52:9,13 53:7 23:11 arrest 3:24 4:3 authority 6:1,4
12:25 better 40:7 47:4 49:21 50:13 53:4 54:22 civil 5:21 18:18
14:12 beyond 11:23 56:7,8 19:12 41:2
16:21 binding 20:24 C case-by-case claim 3:14 9:15
21:2 block 48:17,20 c 2:1 3:1 24:13 54:23 57:18
28:4 BOP 50:23 California 12:22 categorizing claims 9:15 14:3
33:25 botanist 46:19 12:22 10:16 14:5,21 24:2
45:13 boundaries 4:24 call 50:24 category 42:16 54:19
48:23 7:7,8 called 11:13 cause 21:23 class 30:17
53:17,22 break 22:1 17:4 caveat 37:24 46:15
6:16 13:5 33:17 34:1 45:23 49:21 50:4 16:20 22:24
37:4,9,14,18 54:16,21 cells 35:12,18 27:1 28:3
brief 12:14 14:11,17 21:2 33:11 36:19 clerks 19:16
50:17,25 58:4 25:24 29:9 23:20 31:21 closely 27:7 38:2
briefs 7:3 45:16 36:6,8 42:6,10 certification Code 6:17
24:6 46:12 47:14 carries 4:5 50:4 CFR 49:4 colloquial 40:17
43:25 52:12 55:19 56:20 challenge 17:23 43:5
50:4 broadly 8:14,20 carry 3:20 4:2,7 18:2 combatant
47:3 36:18 37:8,14 21:10,12 23:20 1:15 2:3,13 3:7 committed 3:15
41:7 42:19,23 36:24 37:3 27:1,2,4,12,13 common 49:17
50:12,15 51:7 cases 6:15 12:21 46:17 48:24 comparators
20:20 52:22 55:6 21:7 22:7,14 circumstances complained-of
45:3,6,8,21,25 36:16 Court's 17:24 damages 29:13
47:8,9 48:14 4:25 5:7,14,20 57:12 DEA 4:9
14:20 53:13,14 54:19 33:15,20,22 39:1 42:16,17 42:8 55:2
congressional 35:4,11,18,25 coverage 46:11 debatable 57:9
57:25 57:11 30:9,10 31:19 decision 17:24
12:7 constable 43:6 counsel 7:1 46:15 47:3 define 8:13,14
27:7,24 constables 19:2 13:21 26:5 52:7 53:10 44:2 51:5,22
30:12 constitutes 55:5 58:2 covering 27:16 defined 8:20 9:2
37:21 38:18 country 55:22 32:23 15:12 29:5,6
46:12,13 construe 30:15 counts 56:1 created 57:8 30:17,17 32:23
52:5 41:13,16,19 couple 15:15 creates 44:20 51:3 53:14
28:8,9 construing 57:5 10:13 11:18 crime 50:19,22 defines 3:18
53:19 contact 16:11 28:10 34:17 criminal 7:9 9:1 15:13
contemplated court 1:1,12,16 23:24 25:22 definition 7:17
context 6:6,24 12:15,16,22,23 41:3 18:25 25:5
11:6 6:24 35:12 29:10,11,20 curiae 1:22 2:10 41:10,12,16,18
22:23 contract 9:12,18 30:14 32:2,9 26:9 58:4 41:23 42:14
11:3 32:25 36:14,14 Custom 19:12 43:17 45:21
contrary 14:13 36:25 40:25 customs 19:8,10 46:22 47:1,8
27:13 24:25 41:13,15,16,18 24:17 51:9,18 52:12
30:6,8 convince 26:13 47:5 50:16 C.F.R 35:25 52:20 54:7,12
core 4:8,16 5:3 52:23 54:12 56:9
33:6 56:9 57:7 55:11 56:10 D definitive 16:17
34:8,9 correct 17:15 57:14 58:1,3,6 D 3:1 delegated 17:11
38:25 20:5,15,22 courts 13:10,18 da 37:10,10,10 deny 11:7
41:10,17 21:13 49:13 21:4 27:9 37:10,10,10,11 Department
43:2 correction 18:14 52:25 55:17 37:11 1:18 29:15,22
25:7,13 34:20 56:4 daily 35:3,6 depending
53:24 7:21 51:1 12:1,3,9,11,20 30:19,21,22,24 enumerated
44:1 54:10 14:8,16,22,24 33:10,12,13,24 envision 4:7
57:14 empowered 43:3,5,9,20 especially 55:23
25:2 duties 20:4,11 enactment 46:18,23 47:1 essentially 6:10
duty 35:19 enacts 32:12 48:14 49:11 establish 7:6,7
15:15 48:8 enclaves 39:19 53:9,15,16 et 36:2 37:11
40:13 39:20 54:2,3,9,24,25 evaluating 18:6
49:24 E encompass 55:2,3,18 56:9 evening 48:18
32:16 earlier 7:3 40:11 ends 46:9 enforcement-... 27:6 28:2 39:6
18:17 earn 22:20 enforcement enforces 38:5 57:3
24:11 easiest 47:16 3:12,15,19 4:8 enforcing 6:13 evoke 23:24
easy 39:15 53:3 4:15,16 5:3,18 10:13 11:19 exactly 8:5
35:22 53:5 54:22 6:21 7:10,10 37:7,13 40:17 29:11 40:23
42:3,11 egregious 15:1 7:12,18 8:4,15 engage 8:16 exaggerate
45:13 either 26:23 9:2,9,9 10:1,12 26:2 35:11,12 27:11
51:14 39:25 11:13 12:23 43:8 example 4:6
elements 18:21 14:3,7,11,12 engaged 23:17 5:11,21 6:16
embrace 16:15 15:3,4,11,12 34:2,3,4,6,10 39:19 47:20
17:8,16,18 19:19 20:8,10 48:9,13 53:8 excepted 9:14
employees 3:24 24:10,21,22 29:4 50:20 50:9
52:10 48:11,12 27:15,17 28:4 32:20 35:22 excludes 46:16
employment 28:19,23,24 entomologist execute 33:25
46:24 fairness 52:17 41:14 44:18,19 24:6 42:25,25 45:1
fall 16:9 19:13 47:4 49:1 generally 14:4 46:5 51:17,19
36:23 41:9 flavor 12:7 51:23 grant 32:21
falls 5:2 7:17 55:20,20,22 7:5,25 21:9 grapple 52:25
53:20 false 9:16,16 43:10 45:8 generation 41:4 ground 50:1
17:15 23:23,23 46:24 getting 27:14 grounds 44:12
46:23 far 20:23 33:5 42:4 Ginsburg 3:22 22:3 36:15
54:1 56:10 follows 38:23 7:4 10:24 37:5 45:12
50:24 52:9,13 force 4:11 5:12 16:19 26:21,25 guarding 19:22
February 1:9 foreseeable 13:2 give 9:6,7 11:14 49:8,22 50:23
5:6,15,17 6:18 19:16 20:6,10 19:14 44:14,19 guess 18:20 21:6
19:3,4,15 formula 26:24 28:21 40:11
23:24 24:2 12:15 gives 33:25 h 5:19
31:22 39:11,12 FTCA 27:16 34:3 44:15 8:1
40:5 43:12 function 6:9 goes 11:23 38:23 happened 16:25
56:4,10 57:18 25:16 45:18,18 going 22:2,6 happens 13:3
14:21,25 files 50:2,10 29:16,16,21,23 4:17 5:6,15 hat 42:11 52:9
20:8 filing 22:17,19 30:13 17:18,21 20:21 53:7
23:14 50:13 further 13:19 21:3,8,22 22:7 hats 42:5 45:11
find 13:18 39:12 fuzzy 6:2 40:14,24 41:4 45:15,22 53:2
finding 7:12 G 43:4 44:3,16 hear 3:3
39:22,24 26:14,17 30:4 general 1:18 5:5 government's held 12:23,25
33:20 35:1 17:12 18:3 8:25 40:12,14 13:10 40:25
inapplicable 24:9,12 involving 51:19 44:25 47:10,13
12:10 incarcerated intended 29:7 33:16 56:4,11 51:12,21 52:14
20:5 35:3,7 42:9 34:10 43:14 52:16,19 54:18
incident 16:3 45:4,25 46:13 J 55:5,8,12,13
50:6 51:11,16 interaction 35:3 judgment 1:22 31:6,24 32:7
incorporated 46:7 54:14 11:7,14,16,25 30:4 41:5,7
22:25 10:19 53:17 16:19 18:10,16 54:18
33:2,2 indication 45:6 investigates 19:8,20,24 Kennedy's
individual 12:24 investigating 21:5,18 23:2,6 kids 16:7
5:1 20:7 56:8 50:21 26:5,7,11,21 28:18 36:5
17:17 injury 50:8 18:21 26:16 31:16,20,24 54:11
37:24 inmates 35:5 30:6,9,15 32:7 33:7,12 knocks 38:24
40:13 inspecting 7:14 33:24 41:23 33:17 34:1,12 40:19
53:1 7:15 45:21 47:7 35:8,17 36:10 know 15:16
55:15 inspector 3:23 involve 36:24 36:19,24 37:4 16:10 19:6,10
4:12,12 7:14 46:14 49:14 37:9,14,18,22 23:19 25:25
38:11 34:10,16,20,24 limitation 11:23 maintain 35:19 merely 50:4
43:2 35:1 36:8,20 12:1 28:18,22 36:6 49:6 merits 18:1
46:22 36:21 37:5,6,8 28:25 31:8,13 maintaining miles 54:8
50:20 37:17 38:5,10 31:14,16,17,18 6:12 46:2 military 24:20
38:12,15,18,21 32:13 majority 56:8 44:10 45:14,17
40:15 limitations making 7:20 45:18,25 46:2
32:19,21 43:3,5,9,12,20 9:1 15:25 21:1 48:9,10 49:8 3:4
41:15 44:2,5 45:18 24:3 26:15 malicious 9:16 million 54:8
45:22,24 46:14 29:22 30:16 23:23 28:4 mind 36:17
24:11,11 47:7,15,17,19 limiting 4:20 9:1 35:24 minimize 42:13
27:22,23 47:22 48:4,13 10:7,10 18:11 map 4:24 minority 55:17
41:9,20 49:10,17,21 line 6:2 11:23 Marine 29:19 minutes 55:9
50:19 51:2,4,6 53:3,5 54:22 Marshall 40:24 miscarriage
52:9,11,18 list 57:1 36:22 misrepresenta...
4:8,14,16 55:1,3,18 56:9 57:9 15:15 21:21 mix 51:22
6:18,21 56:12 57:18 literally 27:4,24 24:16 49:21 mixture 19:25
laws 6:2,4,13 28:10,11 32:20 52:11 54:17 moment 31:24
9:1,8,9 24:15 32:14,17 32:22 57:21 57:10,24 58:9 moments 44:4
lawsuits 55:15 litigated 12:13 matters 17:17 money 22:20
leave 9:22 10:25 17:22 56:4 mean 5:24 11:21 morning 3:4
13:13,16 11:2 23:6 33:7 Litigation 22:16 15:5,23,24
33:8 little 15:6 22:13 23:15,17 N
left 11:17 23:3 locked 37:6 27:10 30:24 N 2:1,1 3:1
legal 35:23 long 20:17 57:14 37:6 39:11,25 narrow 13:16
45:13 48:23 look 4:5 5:17 52:14,16 36:8 40:4,7
legislative 45:5 12:20 21:21 meaning 8:25 42:7 44:15
19:3 letter 38:10,15 23:25 25:12 meaningful 48:5
20:8,9 38:23,24 26:4 37:1 42:2 32:16 narrower 46:14
21:1,2 let's 4:9 8:13,14 45:4 means 8:5 37:11 47:14
8:19 25:4 looked 22:5 41:18,21 51:9 narrowing
liability 7:13 looking 23:7 56:21 44:21
liable 23:12 loose 48:8 meant 27:4 33:6 narrowly 44:1,6
26:1 libel 9:11,17 lose 22:18 meat 3:23,23 national 27:18
27:14 11:2 23:3 lost 41:4 4:12 naturally 34:16
28:4 licensed 34:19 lot 21:25 meet 15:17,17 necessarily 15:2
light 26:19,20 lots 40:4 15:23 19:21 47:12
26:21 loudly 24:25 54:6 needs 12:16
likelihood 22:8 lower 21:3 52:25 meets 34:8 negligent 24:16
54:18 38:21 45:20 neither 14:12
limit 8:2,3 10:11 M 47:1 never 12:12,13
34:2,5 14:10 24:13 M 12:21 Merchant 29:19 16:25 17:15
53:25 47:25 48:9 open 55:20,21 44:9 55:11
27:1,12 50:10 51:10 30:2 part 9:22 25:22 phrase 14:12
52:8,12 53:15 operative 30:5 32:11,19 35:19 19:19 31:3,4,7
56:1,17,20 opposed 4:16 44:23 46:8 pick 49:16 50:1
officers 4:8 5:14 opposite 20:18 particular 24:3 place 15:11 35:2
54:8 6:21,23 8:17 3:7 13:23 26:8 particularly places 39:11
54:2 16:5,8,11 36:6 46:2 49:7 parts 22:10 22:22 41:9,22
54:19 20:9,10 23:13 29:3 39:13,16 passage 55:23 17:23 54:23
25:7,13 50:20 passed 8:6 plausible 4:18
33:15,19,20,22 40:19,25 41:2 peace 5:8,10,11 point 23:16
35:9 35:1,2,4,11,18 46:16 Pena 29:11,12 35:14 36:23
35:25 36:1,5 ought 11:22 32:20 41:15 41:8 44:14
43:20 37:2,17 41:9 outrageous 13:8 Pennsylvania 54:17 55:14
23:7 25:1 42:15,16 43:19 40:6 people 13:8 19:3 pointed 34:25
4:4,5,9,19 51:14,20 56:10 37:6 39:5,18 36:11,11,13
56:11,12,12 P 44:7,8 46:15 39:4,18 46:1
57:11 P 3:1 46:16 53:8 54:20
12:24 officer's 12:25 PAGE 2:2 54:8,11 policeman 34:2
14:17 31:22 paid 5:25 perfectly 42:20 39:4,16 45:15
15:12,18 offices 17:13 Paolella 1:15 2:3 performing 23:8 45:17 52:11
16:23 offing 54:4 2:13 3:6,7,9 permit 7:13 policeman's
17:7 Oh 33:17 4:1 5:9 6:6 permitted 7:16 33:8
okay 25:19 7:19 8:10,18 person 23:8 29:6 policemen 39:13
29:25 39:4,20 8:22 9:3 10:3,6 38:14,21 44:9 39:20 40:2,5,5
24:22 39:24 10:15 11:5,10 48:2 53:19 policy 11:5
28:7 omissions 14:6 11:15,20 12:2 personal 48:2 57:10,14,17,24
32:24 23:1 30:6,8,11 12:10 55:8,10 personnel 44:10 Pooler 16:1
34:13,20 30:15,17 32:9 55:12 56:3,19 persons 14:7 20:20,21,22
38:9,10 47:6 56:23 30:18 27:22,23 28:1
ones 11:1 19:1 parade 57:22 Petitioner 1:4 28:11 38:1
45:22 40:8 park 19:20 20:6 1:16 2:4,14 3:8 55:16
47:1,18 one's 15:3 20:6,9 34:1 18:13 25:21 Pooler's 21:1
20:14,18 46:1,2 48:23 33:24 34:9 38:16,19 43:25
49:3,5,6,7,8 41:10,20 45:21 52:17 55:14
50:13,18,21 47:8,9 57:17 questioning
22:9 51:2 54:14 provider 29:16 53:24 44:20
26:23 prisoner 6:20 30:13 questions 13:19
36:2,14 48:16 providers 29:14 queueing 7:4
42:20 48:16 49:25 29:21,23 quite 6:22 14:13
43:1 50:3 provides 3:12 quote 3:20 17:12
56:17 prisoners 6:19 providing 42:14 refer 50:20
6:25 21:24 45:8 R reference 24:5
45:3 55:15,23 41:12,14 raised 57:23 referenced
probably 36:23 22:23 26:15 rationale 16:2 regarding 55:14
52:2,7 53:12 31:6,9,11,11 32:20,22,25 regulations
57:7 53:10 55:1 47:5 49:19 reads 51:18 reinforces 19:7
problems 51:17 punches 7:15 29:3,7 40:5 relevant 17:13
28:5 purposes 5:21 56:4,14 47:21
18:8 17:20 18:5 remainder
proposed 25:5 qualify 12:8 33:6,18 34:9 remaining 55:9
protester 13:9 14:22 15:5 reasons 48:22 50:17,25
prove 5:23 17:3,5 22:3,11 REBUTTAL report 16:4 28:8
22:15 provide 16:16 25:18 27:21 2:12 55:10 28:10 52:4
37:5,9,11 37:19 43:3 28:21 30:24,25 recalcitrant represent 16:22
rough 23:10 41:19 47:10,14 35:11,16 six 3:14 14:6
31:10,25 rule 48:7,8 48:5,13 57:19 4:10 35:13 11:2 23:3
21:22 28:1,8,9,11 30:5 33:23 4:24 7:5,25
2:7 13:24 S 36:2,25 37:3 44:21 47:5 solve 44:21 46:5
26:8 48:1,9 53:19 separate 52:4 somebody 29:4
23:16 30:23 4:7,10,13,14 48:11 47:1 49:16,20
38:11 42:12 37:2 43:11 19:15,16 20:6 somewhat 48:19
57:25 says 7:11 28:19 searching 39:5 46:18 54:6 sort 10:17 19:25
37:6 50:25 48:3 services 8:16,17 26:1 48:7
Scalia 5:23 9:6 41:17 44:21 set 35:22 43:8 52:3
58:1 11:14,16 20:13 section 3:11 severe 46:4 7:19 8:7,13,19
56:24 38:20 42:12,19 24:12 sheriffs 19:2 25:19 34:12
scandal 27:18 34:21 44:7,8 shooting 13:9 43:24 44:18,24
23:15 12:1,3,8,11,20 see 13:7 16:10 significant 6:1,4 sovereign 3:12
31:19 12:25 13:11,18 21:21 22:13 similar 8:10 14:5 22:25
37:1 39:7 14:8,15,21,24 33:17 40:3 18:18 24:21 29:13
43:23,24 14:25 15:3,17 43:12 simple 49:23 speak 31:12
55:16 16:21 17:5,8 seeks 17:23 51:5 51:13 specific 11:23
17:19,23 18:2 seen 55:22 simply 18:4 specifically
24:7 28:19 seizing 15:25 25:2 56:5 57:17
26:5,7 31:10,12,17,18 46:25 situation 17:25 48:14 51:16
58:2 31:22 32:4,11 seizure 3:25 4:3 28:7 39:12 52:6 53:16,21
10:8 sure 6:3 8:5,11 textual 9:4,7 52:23,25 53:9
14:22 studies 21:20 theory 30:1,2 39:25
32:11 subject 12:24 T 33:8 third 8:8 20:22
47:15 submit 30:14 T 2:1,1 thing 16:9 26:1 20:23 27:2,4
51:9 38:17 take 4:9 20:14 50:15 27:12,22 28:14
4:2,4,20 subsection 5:19 30:1 44:3 16:5,6,8 23:23 31:17 54:24
6:2 subsections takedown 35:8 26:13 27:8,11 three 22:17
14:23 24:13 taken 20:21 29:7,8 31:1 35:10 37:19,25
16:21 substantial takes 43:17 35:10 37:19,25 38:1 43:9
17:10 22:19 50:8 talk 16:7 40:11 38:1,3 43:9 46:23 47:2
20:13,17 substitute 28:23 talking 16:6,18 47:2 51:15,16 48:13 51:11,15
23:12,22 31:3 18:24 19:2,18 51:25 52:1 51:16,19,25
27:16 substituting 20:21 23:12 56:14 52:1,6 53:15
32:14 31:13 25:10 33:1 think 4:18 6:6 53:21 54:3
43:7 substitution 50:12 52:8 7:3,21,23 8:5,7 thumb 33:3
29:2 54:5 9:23 10:6 time 13:20 17:7
suggest 13:14 television 16:10 13:17 15:2 Title 6:17
29:5,6,8 suggesting 44:4 20:23 37:15,17 19:21 20:2,11 tools 22:14 57:5
suggests 10:20 5:10,16,17,18 21:24 22:13,21 tort 7:13 9:15
14:9,13 25:21 16:14,14 18:24 23:13 25:24 25:16 44:11
suits 21:22 45:2 19:13 25:10,11 27:20,21 29:1 57:18
18:22 55:22 41:18,21 51:3 29:2 31:13 torts 3:14 9:24
25:11 supervision 51:5 56:13 32:2,15 33:6 10:17 11:11,17
28:17,22 35:25 terms 3:13 34:9,16 36:4 14:6 15:1 23:9
30:1,12 support 1:22 31:12 32:1 36:19 37:1,14 23:21 28:6
38:12 2:10 26:9 test 5:24,25 15:8 37:24 38:4,19 57:1
49:11 56:16 58:4 15:17,18,21 39:3,22 40:7 tour 34:6
57:4,6,9 supporting 1:19 25:3 56:6 40:12 41:2 tours 19:25 34:3
13:24 tested 27:3 42:2,15,23 track 30:1
37:12 suppose 30:24 21:13 22:22 45:20,25 46:4 40:15 43:5
57:6 supposed 48:17 23:25 24:1 46:13,20 47:4 48:7 51:4 55:3
14:4 V 30:11 32:2 13:22,23,25
undefined 25:10 29:11,11 32:19 41:15,19 42:14 16:19 17:2
43:2 varies 16:14 47:5,9,16 19:23 20:2,5
54:12 vastly 22:6 wearing 42:11 yard 48:18
28:3 unequivocal view 11:25 we're 16:6,18
39:1 33:4 19:1 29:10 1
49:12
41:13 uniform 5:13 51:19 56:1 33:1,4 52:19 10:25 1:13 3:2
42:13 13:4 violating 38:11 we've 8:19 32:1 11-10362 1:4 3:4
44:19 United 1:1,6,12 49:2 wide 3:23 11:26 58:8
48:6 3:4,19 4:2,4,20 violation 50:18 willing 8:14 13 2:7
49:19 6:2,4,13 15:8 50:18,22 wish 40:7 1346 31:25
24:24 27:16 44:9 28:11 29:24 34:23 35:21,21
31:1 unleash 45:2 35:5 42:8 work 19:17 42:3,4 45:14
41:11 unquote 3:20 21:25 19 1:9
43:18 unusual 35:14 W workable 56:6
45:11,12 urge 58:1 workplace 2
usage 26:20 29:4 waiver 3:12,14 43:17 200,000 21:24
49:20 50:20 22:25 24:3,6,7 works 30:2 2013 1:9
54:15 use 4:10 5:10,12 33:1 world 12:7 26 2:10
5:16,17 13:5 waivers 33:2 worlds 46:10 2680 24:12
31:6 49:14 walking 44:12 wouldn't 27:11 28 35:25 49:4
36:19 usually 5:7 want 7:7,9 24:24 writes 38:10,14 3 2:4 55:9
19:25 42:6 27:11 writing 16:4
6:17 33:21
35:21
wants 54:12 wrote 28:8
34:23 35:21,21 Washington 1:8 X
55:21
42:3,4 45:14 water 4:5 56:20
32:14
2:14
36:1 49:4
48:17
