IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS, SECRETARY OF :
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, :
Petitioner : No. 11-1231
v. :
AUBURN REGIONAL MEDICAL :
CENTER, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, December 4, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:08 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
JOHN F. MANNING, ESQ., Cambridge, Massachusetts;
Court-Appointed amicus curiae.
ROBERT L. ROTH, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN F. MANNING, ESQ.
Court-Appointed amicus curiae 16
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ROBERT L. ROTH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:08 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 11-1231, Sebelius v. Auburn
Regional Medical Center.
Mr. Kneedler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Under Part A of the Medicare program, the
Federal government pays out more than $230 billion
annually to more than 30,000 institutional providers,
including more than 6,000 hospitals. The total amount
to which each of these providers is entitled is
determined by a fiscal intermediary on the basis of a
cost report.
The statute provides that a provider may
obtain a hearing before the Provider Reimbursement
Review Board, only if he appeals the intermediary's
determination with -- within 180 days.
For the almost 40 years of the existence of
the Provider Reimbursement Review Board, the Secretary,
pursuant to her broad rulemaking authority, has
prohibited the board from extending that period, and
instead required dismissal of the appeal, except as
specifically provided in the Secretary's own
regulations.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Kneedler,
there's a little bit of at least facial incongruity in
your position.
Congress sets in place the 180-day limit.
Then you say, oh, well, that, we can go beyond that.
The Secretary puts in the 3-year limit, and you say
that's it -- you know, that's the dead drop-off. I
would have thought what Congress says is entitled to
greater weight than what the Secretary says.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the 180-day limitation
here is not a limitation applied to suits filed in
court, in which the court is the relevant tribunal, and
the court has -- has itself construed the statute's
regulating access to the courts or the appellate courts
as a matter -- a matter of internal judicial
administration.
This deadline governs an appeal within the
Department of Health and Human Services, and that is
something that Congress has delegated the responsibility
to the Secretary to construe the relevant statutes and
to adopt the relevant regulations pursuant to her broad
rulemaking authority.
So in -- in this setting, it is the board
that is the relevant tribunal, and the rules governing
the board's jurisdiction are established --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me.
MR. KNEEDLER: Excuse me.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You don't mention Union
Pacific in your brief. How can you be calling what
you're doing setting your jurisdictional limits? Didn't
we say, in Union Pacific, that agencies can't do that?
You can't define your own jurisdiction.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, you may or may not
be able to establish claim processing rules. That, I
think, is a totally different question. But why do you
continue to use it as jurisdictional language?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I was responding to --
first of all, the -- the Secretary's regulations have,
from the outset, referred to these limitations as
limitations on the board's jurisdiction. This is --
this is set forth in the -- in the regulations
promulgated --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, in that respect, I
think the amici is right. You can't -- if they're
jurisdictional, we've clearly said that equitable
tolling doesn't apply under any circumstances.
MR. KNEEDLER: Right. And we -- and we
clearly believe that equitable tolling does not apply.
That would be fundamentally inconsistent.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what is good cause,
if not some form of equitable tolling?
MR. KNEEDLER: There is nothing incompatible
between a good cause -- a limited good cause extension
and a jurisdictional rule.
For example, in -- in the several cases that
this Court has considered finding provisions to be
jurisdictional, the time for taking an appeal and the
time for petitioning for certiorari are both
jurisdictional, but both allow extensions for good
cause. In fact, this Court's decision in Bowles
involved the extension for good cause.
So the question here for the Secretary --
and, again, this is just a narrow question of good
cause. It in no way suggests that equitable tolling
would be -- would be permitted.
The narrow question is whether the Secretary
permissibly construed the statute to allow a comparable
good cause exception, where -- where something akin to
an act of God would prevent the provider from actually
appealing within the requisite period of time, just like
the district court can extend the appeal period.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The -- the Court's
decision in Henderson against Shinseki, that also
involved an intra-agency appeal, and yet, we said that
equitable tolling was permissible.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I mean, there are a
number of differences there. I think, technically, it
was not intra-agency. It was an appeal from
the Board of Veterans Appeals to the Court of Veterans
Appeals, which is a separate body. It is not something
under the jurisdiction of the VA.
The VA was not given rulemaking authority
over that, unlike here, where the board is under the
Secretary's jurisdiction, and, in fact, she has adopted
regulations that have been in place for 40 years, which
have expressly barred any extensions and treated that
limitation as jurisdictional.
Also, very much unlike Henderson, this
statute is not one comparable to a statute regulating
benefits for veterans, to which there has always been a
solicitude by Congress and the courts --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Kneedler, do you
think you could do the same thing in the veterans'
benefits context? Because in Henderson, of course, we
dropped a footnote saying that we weren't deciding
whether equitable tolling was available. All we were
saying was that this was a claims processing rule and
not a jurisdictional rule.
Could the Secretary of Veterans Affairs then
go on and say, okay, it's a claims processing rule, but
still, we get to decide how much equitable tolling we
want, and we're going to adopt a regulation, much like
the one in this case, saying you can't come in after 3
years? Could you do that in Henderson?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I think, in Henderson,
there would have been the problem that the rule, as I
understand it, was a rule to -- for appealing to the
Court, which was outside the -- the Secretary's
rulemaking authority; whereas, here, this is a body
within HHS over which the Secretary has rulemaking
authority.
But, yes, we -- we think that the Secretary
clearly had -- and she has very broad legislative
rulemaking authority under this statute -- has the
authority to adopt strict limitations, as she has done
on that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could she -- could she
have adopted equitable tolling?
MR. KNEEDLER: I -- we don't think that she
could have. We think that, as we say in our brief,
quite aside from the Secretary's regulation, we believe
the sort of open-ended equitable tolling that the court
of appeals has imposed on this program for the first
time in 40 years is fundamentally inconsistent with a
need for repose, especially given the sophisticated
nature of these providers, as this Court noted in the
Your Home nursing home case --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess the question I was
trying to ask, Mr. Kneedler, was do you think it's a
general principle of administrative law that, when there
is a claims processing rule that -- that relates only to
internal agency process, that the agency gets to decide
how much, if any, equitable tolling to allow?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. We -- we certainly do
believe that.
For -- for -- in the first place, most
agency time limits are established by the agency itself,
pursuant to regulation. So if there had been no
statutory 180-day limitation period here and the
Secretary had adopted a regulation imposing that, then
whether -- and the extent to which that provision would
be open to extensions for good cause, for some degree of
equitable tolling, whatever the factors, would be up to
the Secretary in construing her own regulation --
JUSTICE ALITO: Now, you refer to these --
to the providers as sophisticated, and that certainly is
true. But are they really in a position to double-check
the calculation when -- if it were true -- and I know
you don't agree with this -- if it were true that
information needed to make the calculation was
intentionally withheld, concealed?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, as you say, we do
not -- we do not agree with that. And the findings by
the district court in this case, which was the same
district judge who sat in the Baystate case, disagreed
with that -- with that conclusion.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I understand that.
But if that were the case, would their sophistication
allow them to double-check this? Or is this just
something that is dependent on data that they cannot
access?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, it -- it may be more
difficult. This was a situation which required the
matching of data between CMS and the Social Security
administrative -- massive data files of 11 million
Medicare claims, I think 6 million SSI claims.
And when you have two agencies matching
something, there will be errors. And the -- the
providers did not know --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assume for the sake of
your answer that the error was intentional. Don't try
to go to the facts, but assume the error was
intentional. Now, answer Justice Alito's question.
MR. KNEEDLER: There -- it --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There -- that might be a
contradiction in terms.
MR. KNEEDLER: There may be -- there may be
situations in which the provider would not know that,
but the need -- but the need for finality under this
program, we think, requires an across-the-board rule.
Otherwise, a provider could come in -- as this Court
suggested in the Your Home case, circumstances --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If this is a claim
processing rule, under what theory could you shield
yourself against fraudulent conduct -- fraudulent
concealment? Under what theory of law would an agency's
rule be fair and -- and non-arbitrary --
MR. KNEEDLER: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that shielded it from
fraudulent acts.
MR. KNEEDLER: First of all, we do not
believe this is an ordinary claims processing rule. We
believe that this is a jurisdictional limitation imposed
by the -- by Congress, interpreted by the Court to allow
this narrow exception. So we do not believe that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why do you keep fighting
the -- the question?
MR. KNEEDLER: But with -- yes, we do
believe that the Secretary, in the interest of -- of
finality, can impose that sort of limitation. There's a
presumption of regularity in the -- in the operation
of -- administration of Federal programs. There are
criminal sanctions.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You keep fighting the
hypotheticals. There is an intent to save money and an
intent not to use the figures that are specified by
statute, and that is concealed. In that set of
circumstances, if this were a claim processing rule,
would you be authorized to treat -- not to -- not to
permit the action?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. We -- we believe the
Secretary would be -- would be required to, and we think
may well be compelled to. But let me point out, if
there was that sort of extraordinary circumstance, then
either Congress or the Secretary could provide a special
remedy in that situation.
If there was an inspector general's report
that showed widespread fraud in something, I think
Congress or the Secretary could be expected to respond
to that in an appropriate way. The question is whether
the hard and fast rules that have been adopted should
be -- should be open to general equitable tolling
principles.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Kneedler, you -- what I
find incompatible in your argument is you -- you assert
that this is a jurisdictional limitation.
MR. KNEEDLER: Insofar as the board is
concerned. The board has said and the Secretary has
said that the board -- this is jurisdictional, and the
board has no equitable powers to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can you think of any other
instance in which we have found something to be a
jurisdictional limitation and allowed the person or
agency, subject to that limitation, to extend it? I --
I had always thought that once you say it's
jurisdictional, it means you have to abide by it.
MR. KNEEDLER: As I said, in -- in Bowles,
the Court was dealing with the jurisdictional time limit
for an appeal, but there was a comparable -- there is a
comparable statutory provision for the Court to extend
that period for good cause. It remains jurisdictional.
That was the point in Bowles. It was -- there was a
question of whether the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if there is another
statutory provision, then that -- then that statutory
extension is part of the jurisdictional limitation.
That's fine.
But when you just have a jurisdictional 180
days, without any statutory provision for extension, if
it's jurisdictional, I thought that's the end of the
game.
MR. KNEEDLER: Right. And -- and the -- the
question is -- some time limitations have been
understood to contain explicit -- excuse me, explicit or
implicit authorizations for the tribunal concerned. And
this --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Undoubtedly. But have any
jurisdictional time limitations?
JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, you don't need that
label, do you, Mr. Kneedler? You could do just as well
with a claims processing label. Maybe you could do
better, as Justice Scalia is suggesting, with a claims
processing label, as long as, with that label, comes the
general rule that the agency gets to determine the
extent of discretion as to late filings.
MR. KNEEDLER: Right. This is a
mandatory -- this is a mandatory -- even if
nonjurisdictional, it is a mandatory limitation. And
the question is whether the statute contains an implicit
authorization, whether the Secretary could permissibly
construe it to allow for this narrow good cause
exception comparable to the one for extending the
time --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The problem with taking
that approach, of course -- and I assume why you assert
that it's jurisdictional, is that there is a long
history of both the board and the Secretary regarding
this as jurisdictional.
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, that is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They have said it.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- that is -- that is
correct. But we -- but I think it's also important to
recognize that the -- that this statute was enacted, the
regulations were adopted before this Court's recent
jurisprudence identifying some things as jurisdictional,
some things as claim processing, primarily focusing on
the judicial situation.
Here, we have a statute governing procedures
in an administrative agency and regulations adopted at a
time before that -- that bifurcated way of looking at
things arose.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But that --
that's why I wonder what the basic underlying principle
is. I mean, I would have thought -- but I'm not sure
what you think, that -- that the way to look at these
cases is, using ordinary principles of statutory
interpretation, would a reasonable legislator, having
enacted these words, intend to give the agency a degree
of leeway in interpreting the statute?
Now, if that's the basic question, it helps,
but isn't determinative whether you classify this as a
claims processing rule or a jurisdictional rule. Those
are conclusions. But, really, it's the question of
leeway that the Congress intended to -- to delegate to
the agency that is determinative.
If the answer to that question is yes, your
rule stands, regardless of label, and if the answer to
the question is no, it fails regardless of label.
MR. KNEEDLER: That's --- that's correct.
And I want to make clear that under, whatever the answer
to that precise question, the Respondents in this case
lose because whether -- if it's an absolute rule to
which there can be no exception or the Secretary's
regulation allowing a limited exception is valid, in no
case would the sort of open-ended tolling regime that
the court of appeals imposed be permissible.
If I may, I'd like to reserve the balance of
my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Manning.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN F. MANNING,
COURT-APPOINTED AMICUS CURIAE
MR. MANNING: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Congress in two ways signaled its intention
to treat the time limitation prescribed by Subsection
(a)(3) as absolute; that is, as not subject to waiver
and not subject to equitable tolling.
First, Congress chose to locate that
provision in the very part of the statute that defines
the board's jurisdiction, that is to say, in the part
that determines the class --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It didn't talk about the
board. It talks about what a party can do, not what the
board can or cannot do.
MR. MANNING: You're entirely -- entirely
right, Justice Sotomayor. It talks about the -- the
right of the provider to get a hearing in the provision
of the statute that -- that determines the class of
cases that the provider may hear.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's not the
prototypical limitation that -- that Congress uses when
it intends a jurisdictional limit on a court.
MR. MANNING: No, it's not, Your Honor. But
in several cases, this Court has held that similar
statutes that are framed in terms of the party's right
to invoke the power of the tribunal, that those are
jurisdictional statutes. The Court has never addressed
the question whether they can be -- they must be framed
in terms of the power of the board or in terms of the
right of the party to invoke the power of the board.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We have talked about
what the -- the fact that there almost is a presumption
of a claims processing rule, rather than jurisdictional,
unless Congress is clear about that.
What policy supports an argument that we
should be reading limitations of this kind as
jurisdictional, particularly when, on the same day the
statute was passed, the agency, invoking its regulatory
powers, treated it like a claim processing? Whatever
your colleague argues, a good cause exception, the
3-year exception, everything else is -- is really
treating it like a claim processing rule, not as
jurisdictional.
MR. MANNING: Justice Sotomayor, you're
entirely right, that the test that this Court has
prescribed in this area of law is focused on
congressional intent. In Arbaugh, this Court said that
the touchstone is congressional intent, that -- that the
design of this Court's rules is to put the ball in
Congress' court.
This Court has put a thumb on the scale
against jurisdiction because of the hard consequences
that follow from deeming a procedure jurisdictional. In
this case, the agency's regulation, no matter how old it
is, is invalid because Congress signaled a clear
intention to treat this as jurisdictional in two ways:
One, by putting it in the -- in the provision of the
statute that defines the board's jurisdiction. But,
secondly, Congress, in this statute, created two
different kinds of deadlines, one for providers and one
for beneficiaries.
Both set almost identical deadlines for
administrative appeals. It's 6 months for
beneficiaries, 180 days for providers. But there is a
fundamental difference in the way Congress treated these
two sets of deadlines, and the fundamental difference is
that Congress explicitly gave the Secretary authority --
discretion, to extend the deadline for beneficiaries.
It gave no such discretion to extend the -- the deadline
for providers.
And the same story plays out in the 60-day
limits that govern judicial review. Discretion --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This -- this agency not
more than 3 years extension, that was adopted after
notice and comment, and Congress amended this statute
several times thereafter, but it left this -- this
3-year outside limit intact. So if Congress really
wanted there to be no leeway at all, then it should have
done something about that regulation.
MR. MANNING: Justice Ginsburg, you're
entirely right. Congress has amended the statute, in
fact, eight times since the Secretary promulgated her
regulation establishing a good cause requirement. But
this Court has, in recent years, been more careful about
finding acquiescence than it did at one time.
In the Solid Waste Authority of Northern
Cook County, what this Court said is that before it will
find that Congress has acquiesced, there must be
evidence that Congress was aware of the regulation and a
clear signal that Congress meant to embrace or put in
place this regulation.
And this is a sound policy because Congress
leaves regulations in place for all sorts of reasons
because somebody is using a parliamentary tactic,
because Congress doesn't have one opinion or the other
about whether the -- the regulation is right, because
Congress didn't think of the problem.
So, in recent years, this Court has insisted
upon a high degree of proof before it will find
acquiescence, and that degree is not present here.
There is no evidence that Congress was aware of this
regulation, much less that it approved of it.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, but you have three --
the point that you make is right, that -- that you have
specific language in the beneficiary part and not here;
but you have the other way, the point that Justice
Ginsburg made, the fact that the language here is --
is -- doesn't say file within 180 days. It says, you
may have a hearing if you file within 180 days. It
doesn't say what happens if you don't. It's open, the
language.
And the -- the subject matter is not a
court. The subject matter is a rather technical agency
review board. And normally, I would think, you would
think, and members of Congress would think that the
agency knows best as to how to run its own operation
and -- and don't interfere too much in details, and this
is a sort of detail.
So those are the things against you, it
seems to me, though the thing you cite is certainly for
you.
MR. MANNING: Quite -- quite right, Your
Honor. And -- and typically, an agency has discretion
to set its own procedures, as the government argues.
And -- and the government is quite right to cite Vermont
Yankee. And I would add Chevron, that -- that the
government promulgated its regulation in a
Chevron-eligible format. But Chevron only applies if
the statute is not clear, and here, we say that Congress
addressed the precise question in issue.
It's very difficult when one reads the
beneficiary provisions and provider provisions, which
are quite different. One provides discretion, and one
doesn't. And what Respondents would have --
JUSTICE BREYER: One was passed long, long
ago and was part of the Social Security Act or
something, the one you're talking about, and was passed
many years before the second one was passed.
And when they're sitting in Congress
writing -- you know, they don't know everything that was
passed in history.
MR. MANNING: You're exactly right, Justice
Breyer. But Congress, in Section 299O of the 1972 Act,
that enacted -- that created the PRRB, amended and
reenacted the provision from the 1965 legislation that
prescribed the -- the beneficiary review provisions. It
incorporated, by reference, provisions that gave the
Secretary express discretion to extend those deadlines.
And so, in the same statute, what Congress
did was it set up two systems, one for beneficiaries and
one for providers. One prescribed discretion, one
didn't.
What the Respondents are asking this Court
to do is to read these two sets of provisions, which are
worded very differently, to mean the same thing, to mean
that the Secretary has discretion whether Congress gives
it or doesn't.
And I submit that that's a good reason to
treat this as a step one case. The Secretary does not
merit deference in this case because the statute is
clear. And to return to Justice Sotomayor's question
about the phrase -- and your question about the
phraseology of Subsection (a), this Court held in Bowles
v. Russell that Section 2107 is jurisdiction
notwithstanding that it --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That was, in part, the
point I raised earlier, which is we look at what the
history is to help inform our use of labels. The
history here -- you can't ignore it -- is that, from its
inception, whether it's trying to disclaim it now or
not, the agency has not treated it as jurisdictional.
It's used the word --
MR. MANNING: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- but it's treated it
as a claim processing rule by creating these exceptions.
MR. MANNING: Well, you're right,
Justice Sotomayor. But my question -- the question that
that raises is this: From the very beginning, this
agency has -- all three of the agencies -- the
Secretary, CMS, and the board -- have all described this
provision as jurisdictional and non-waivable. At the
same time, they have tried to create this exception.
In the -- in the 2008 regulations that
narrowed the good cause exception, the Secretary
acknowledged that there was a question about whether the
good cause exception was consistent with the
characterization of the time limitation as
jurisdictional, acknowledged that there was a split of
authority on that, and suggested that the courts would
have to resolve it. This is not --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There is -- there is a
lot of discussion and confusion between jurisdiction,
mandatory claim processing rules, nonmandatory claim
processing rules. I could go on and on about the
labels.
But let's go back to the point Justice Kagan
made earlier, which is, assuming we were to treat this
as a mandatory claim processing rule, where does that
get you?
Now, the agency says that means no equitable
tolling. Assuming I'm willing to accept that, is
equitable tolling the same as fraudulent concealment,
which has been treated in the law, not as a -- as a
necessary part of equitable tolling, which has to do
with what the plaintiff could have done or not done, but
with what a defendant has done or not done?
MR. MANNING: Justice Sotomayor, this Court
has said that, if a time limitation is jurisdictional,
that limitation is absolute. That includes no equitable
tolling.
In Irwin, this Court included among the
grounds for equitable tolling the intentional
concealment of information that was necessary to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't you -- why
don't you take another minute to finish your answer?
MR. MANNING: Certainly.
So if it's jurisdictional,
Justice Sotomayor, then even if the -- even if the CMS
intentionally withheld this information, the time limit
would be absolute and would not be extendable.
On the other hand, I believe that if the --
the statute is not jurisdictional, it's subject to
equitable tolling; under Irwin, the presumption of
equitable tolling applies. And, it's very difficult to
see how the Secretary is warranted in narrowing
equitable tolling beyond the traditional grounds on
which equitable tolling would be available.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. MANNING: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Roth.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT L. ROTH
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. ROTH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you agree with that
last statement?
MR. ROTH: Well, I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think an agency
is not permitted to have mandatory claim processing
rules?
MR. ROTH: Excuse me, Your Honor?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you believe an agency
is not capable of having mandatory claim processing
rules, that it limits the application of equitable
principles?
MR. ROTH: The -- the agency could have
mandatory claims processing rules to the extent -- with
the leeway that was provided by Congress.
Here, the leeway ends when you have -- when
you have issues, like Your Honor was talking about, with
intentional concealment, when you have actions by the
Secretary, misconduct by the Secretary, that caused the
statute of limitations time to be missed.
One would have to assume that the -- that
the Congress has -- has delegated to the fox to
determine who is in charge of the henhouse. So there is
a limitation, Your Honor, on how far the agency can go,
and it cannot go as far as to shield itself from
judicial review of its own misconduct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would our review be an
APA review, whether the -- the rule is arbitrary or
capricious?
MR. ROTH: Well, I think that -- that the
APA review would start under -- under step one. And we
believe that the statute is clear on this point, that
under step one of Chevron, that this has not been
delegated to the agency to determine what the judicial
review should be available in the context of agency
misconduct, Your Honor.
And, in fact, Your Honor, there is -- 1395oo
provides no support for the government's proposition
that Congress intends undetectable and undisclosed
agency misconduct to deprive hospitals of the payments
Congress promised --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, nobody -- nobody
intends that when they -- when they adopt an absolute
rule. I mean, you -- you can create a horrible with
respect to any absolute jurisdictional rule. That's
easy to do. So the mere fact that -- that a horrible
could occur does -- does not at all persuade me that --
that a rule is not absolute.
MR. ROTH: Well, the horrible that we're
talking about here, Your Honor, is agency misconduct.
And it's been a longstanding principle of law that
defendants should not benefit from their own misconduct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And why -- why do you say
that? I mean, the record that we have says that the CMS
failed to use the best available data. It doesn't say
anything about deliberate concealment.
MR. ROTH: Your Honor, the -- this case
arises on -- comes to this Court after a motion to
dismiss was granted, and so that the -- that the -- the
Court would have to take as true the allegations in the
complaint.
And the allegations in our complaint in
paragraph -- in paragraph 30 -- 38, Your Honor, raise
this question. And that can be found -- let's see -- do
you have -- in the Joint Appendix --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, in -- in any event,
the Baystate case, which is what revealed all of this,
in -- in that case, the district judge there didn't
say -- he said they didn't use the best available data.
He didn't find any deliberate concealment.
MR. ROTH: That's correct, Your Honor, and
because the -- that issue was not before the court and
it was not necessary for the court to make that finding
for purposes of addressing that case.
I'm at the Joint Appendix at 2829, which is
paragraph 38 of our complaint. And paragraph 38 in our
complaint presented one aspect of this concealment,
which was a misleading aspect of the agency's actions
here, where the agency said that matching on the basis
of Social Security numbers was the best way to deal with
this -- this matching of the data that my colleague from
the government was -- was discussing.
And it ends up that the -- that it turns out
years later that, in fact, the Secretary didn't match on
the basis of Social Security numbers. And that made an
enormous difference with respect to how that -- how the
disproportionate share hospital benefit would be
calculated.
So -- so the reason the district court in
the Baystate case didn't have to make findings about
fraud or similar fault or delve that much into the
agency action was because that case came to the court
through the traditional appeals process without
having -- and so a finding as to the actions of the
Secretary and -- and characterizing those actions, as
whether they're misconduct or not was, not necessary to
addressing the case as it was before the district court
in that -- at that time.
The -- but -- but we are talking -- while we
are talking about the disproportionate share hospital
payment, Your Honor, let me simply -- let me simply
mention that what we are talking about here are safety
net hospitals. We are talking about those hospitals
that provide services to -- to a high percentage of poor
people, and -- and Congress had found that those
patients are more expensive to treat.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Roth, on -- on the
legal question here, I think Justice Breyer is right,
that this all comes down to congressional intent, how we
read this statute. If you -- one response to reading
the briefs in this case is that you and Mr. Manning
present opposite views of the statute, and -- and both
of you say the statute is clear as to your opposite
view.
In other words, Mr. Manning says the statute
clearly prohibits equitable tolling, and you say the
statute clearly requires equitable tolling. And both of
you have kind of decent arguments.
And one response to that might be to say,
Mr. Kneedler is right, that the statute is just
ambiguous and that it can be read a bunch of different
ways, and both of you have presented good arguments, but
in the end, it really all goes to show that there is a
lack of clarity here, and then it's up to the agency to
decide.
MR. ROTH: Well, of course, Your Honor,
the -- the statute is clear and equitable tolling is
permitted.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course -- of course, one
can always make an argument on the other side, and the
mere fact that an argument is made on the other side
does not prove that it's not clear. That's what lawyers
do. They make arguments on the other side.
MR. ROTH: But here, Your Honor, the -- when
you look at the factors that underpin the government's
position here that somehow the government can decide
that it can preclude this Court from reviewing agency
misconduct -- you heard the government talk about the
need for finality. Well, the need for finality is not
something that's articulated in the -- in the Medicare
Act except to the extent in a statute that's protective
of providers. There is not a --
JUSTICE BREYER: Are there examples? I
mean, it seems to me that, even if you lose this -- I
mean, I mentioned the three arguments against you, the
other -- the ambiguity of the language and so forth. So
if it ends up, even though it's not just a lawyer's
argument, it isn't really that clear, and they do have
some authority, you then have the second string, which
is you say their rule is unreasonable because it has an
absolute 3-year cutoff, instead of a little flexibility
there for fraudulent concealment.
So -- so do you have statutes, are there
statutes that say 3 -- or are there cases that say 3
years is not enough, that -- that you have to have more
than 3 years? I thought 3 years is a pretty long time.
I mean, I guess they can't go back to fraudulent
concealment pre-Civil War -- you know, I mean, there's
some period that must be reasonable to cut everything
off, and what is that period? What do the cases say?
If it isn't 3 years, what is it?
MR. ROTH: Well, Your Honor, the Secretary
has addressed this question in the context of -- of
fraud or similar fault by providers, and they said there
should be no time limit at all.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's their view there,
and their view here, which is a different kind of thing,
is that 3 years is enough. The question is, is that
reasonable? And do you have any authority that says
it's unreasonable?
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought the 3 years
provision applied only to the Secretary, that she gives
herself 3 years to go back and sort things out, but only
gives you 180 days; is that right?
MR. ROTH: The Secretary -- well, depends
what sort -- if the "sort it out" means recovering
overpayments, the Secretary has an unlimited amount of
time to recover overpayments that are the fault or
similar -- fraud or similar fault on a provider.
If it is not fraud or similar fault on a
provider, the reason the Secretary can't go back more
than 3-plus years is because the statute permits it. 42
U.S. Code 1395gg, which is not cited in the government's
brief, that says that, at the end of the third year
after payment, that the payment becomes final, as long
as the provider and the beneficiary was without fault
with respect to the payment.
So that 3-year limitation that the
government touts in 1885 was not a subject of an
administrative determination that they made. That was
simply they were -- they were following a statute. And
when you look in the Medicare Act for evidence of a
statute that -- that should limit -- impose finality in
some way, that statute is the only one, and it's
protective of providers.
And what the Secretary has done here is it
enacted -- it promulgated a regulation, and the
regulation provides for an unlimited time period to
recover in the face of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Justice Scalia was
not correct in what he just said. The 3 years is for
the provider. The 3 -- under the Secretary's
regulations, the provider gets an additional 3 years,
but no more; isn't that right?
MR. ROTH: Well, the 3-year is both -- it --
it goes both ways, Your Honor, that -- that, under the
reopening rule, that providers have up to 3 years to
come in to ask for relief.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. But it's not 180
days for them. It's 180 days, plus an extension up to 3
years.
MR. ROTH: It's -- well, but after the --
after the 180-day period there is no right to judicial
review. With the reopening -- if there would be a
denial of the reopening request, that denial of the
reopening request, as this Court said in Your Home,
would not be subject to judicial review.
So the extension of time there, Your Honor,
it would -- would be available, but would not have
recourse; and without recourse to judicial review, when
you have an issue here like secretarial misconduct, that
means there will be no review at all, because --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But are you challenging -- I
mean, there is a rule that says that -- there is a
regulation that, for fraud, it's -- the time is
unlimited. But that -- that regulation, the government
says, applies only to the provider, not to the -- the
government.
Are you challenging the agency's reading of
the word "party" in that regulation?
MR. ROTH: Well, we -- again, this came to
the Court on a motion to dismiss, but we think that
the -- the Secretary's interpretation of that ruling has
changed from when it was -- when it was promulgated in
1974, when during the rulemaking process, they
specifically changed that rule to get -- to eliminate
the reference only to a provider, and it's to any party.
And so that rule ought to be applied in a
way that provides equilibrium, that it would apply both
against secretarial misconduct --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did you -- did you make
that argument in this case? I wasn't aware that you had
challenged the interpretation of -- of the fraud
regulation.
MR. ROTH: We -- we speak at some length in
the brief, under this -- under this rubric of the
one-way ratchet. This is the one-way ratchet that we
were talking about, Your Honor, in that, with respect to
the reopening rule, the -- the Secretary has provided an
unlimited amount of time. So finality is not an issue
with respect to correcting -- correcting these payments
that arise from the fraud -- fraud or similar fault of
the provider.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I'm about 5
minutes behind. The gg provision that you said the
government didn't cite -- you mentioned a provision that
ended, anyway, with gg.
MR. ROTH: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that in your
brief?
MR. ROTH: No. No. That is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that in the
amici's brief?
MR. ROTH: It is not cited in any of the
briefs, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it anywhere that
I can find, other than -- I mean, is it in the appendix
to any brief?
MR. ROTH: No. Sorry, Your Honor. We do
not have -- this is not before the Court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a little bit
much to chide the Solicitor General for not citing it
when nobody cited it.
MR. ROTH: That is true, Your Honor, and
that -- that is correct. But in citing 405.1885 and the
reason that we're bringing it up, Your Honor, for the
first time on rebuttal is that in the -- in the
government's reply brief, they went out of their way to
try to characterize the reasonableness of the Secretary,
you can trust the Secretary here because the Secretary
has said, look, after 3 years, we consider there to be
finality, and we don't go back after the -- after the --
after the providers -- you know, except for fraud or
similar fault, as if this had been a gift, an
interpretation from the Secretary.
It wasn't, Your Honor. That's why we are
raising it here, Your Honor, because, under the 1395gg
provision, they can't go back, and that's why they have
their reopening regulation and that reopening regulation
is an order from Congress.
And what we have here, Your Honor, is that
you have this concept at least arising from Congress;
when you look at the 1395gg, you look at the appeals
statute in 1395oo, is that you have an expectation from
Congress that the providers within their 180 days will
be able to know exactly what happened and why they were
underpaid. And here, of course, that underpayment was
concealed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that reopening -- is
that reopening provision, the mysterious gg, is -- is
that subject to equitable tolling, too?
MR. ROTH: The -- well, the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if not, why not?
MR. ROTH: Well, 1395gg simply says that
a -- that a -- that a provider and a beneficiary will
not be subject to overpayment recoveries, if they were
without fault.
And what we -- and whether it would be
susceptible for equitable tolling is not before the
Court at this point, but that rule at least is applied
equally on both sides.
In other words, if -- if the -- if a
provider was underpaid because of its own fault, this
case isn't about any -- any relaxation of that rule.
Providers are on the hook for that.
On the other hand, where a provider is
underpaid because of the secretive conduct, the
undisclosed and undetectable conduct of the Secretary,
that is the -- that's an area where we would find that
the very concept of equitable tolling is inherent in
1395oo.
Remember, the trigger point in 1395oo is
notice. That is -- and, again, that goes against this
concept that it is jurisdictional. It's a claims
processing statute. And here, Your Honor, the notice
was defective. When they issued --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Roth, I'm not certain
about the extent of your argument, so let me -- let me
try something.
Now, are you saying that any time Congress
passes a statute saying -- you know, there is 30 days to
do this, there is 60 days to do this, in the agency
context now, as to administrative process, that Congress
necessarily means that equitable tolling applies and
that the agency cannot limit that equitable tolling?
MR. ROTH: Yes, Your Honor, that, if the
issue is the -- is the agency's own misconduct, that
Congress would -- to -- to read that Congress intended
in a situation under the -- like this under the Medicare
Act, where we're talking about a procedural right to
that -- to enforce a substantive right.
In other words, we have here providers who
have provided services. And under their agreement with
the Secretary, they provide services, and they get paid
for those services.
If there were an attempt to limit that
payment, to cut off that payment because of agency
misconduct, because of the expiration of a -- of a
statute of limitations, we don't believe Congress ever
intended that its payments would be cut off because of
agency misconduct that caused a provider to miss -- to
miss a deadline that caused the expiration of a statute
of limitations.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure how we can
limit this to agency misconduct. Suppose there is a
computer glitch in a program, completely good faith, and
the computer just spits out the -- the wrong
information, and nobody knows about it. That's not
misconduct.
MR. ROTH: That's not misconduct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- but --
MR. ROTH: We would agree, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you would say no
equitable tolling in that case?
MR. ROTH: Well, that's not -- that -- this
case -- that -- that is a mistake. That's an error.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, that would be good
cause. It seems to me that would be good cause under
the -- under the Secretary's rules.
MR. ROTH: That has never been good cause
under Secretary's ruling, but -- potentially. But that
is not what -- that would be the level -- that would not
be misconduct. That would not trigger equitable
tolling, as opposed to the facts of this case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I don't know -- I
don't know why it wouldn't.
MR. ROTH: What's that?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You mean to say that if
that happened, under the Secretary's rule, the Secretary
would abuse its discretion in extending the time for 3
years?
MR. ROTH: For -- excuse me? For
recovering -- for the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
MR. ROTH: -- for a provider to make an
appeal?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
MR. ROTH: Well, they don't have to extend
the time, Your Honor. They can simply provide by
administrative payment to -- to fix the problem. They
don't have to circle it through -- through an appeals
process, if the government found out. And, in fact,
Your Honor, there is another regulation. It's
unfortunately --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I just find it
hard -- hard to see why this is -- you're saying that
the equitable tolling rule -- the agency does have the
3-year rule.
MR. ROTH: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It is limited to
misconduct?
MR. ROTH: Yes, Your Honor. But the facts
that you're talking about --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you're arguing for --
in a way, for a narrower rule than what the
government --
MR. ROTH: Well, Your Honor, let me say that
the facts that you're talking about are addressed
explicitly in 42 CFR 405.980. And what the government
has said in that regulation is that, when there has been
clerical error, claims can be reopened indefinitely.
That's another indefinite time period.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, suppose it's just
what the Baystate court said it is. It isn't deliberate
concealment, but it is failure to use the best available
data.
And I take it the argument you just presented
is equitable tolling is tied to misconduct. So just
failure to use the best available data, not deliberate
concealment, wouldn't make it.
MR. ROTH: Well, in this case, Your Honor --
well, simply, if it was knowing use of bad data, in
other words, if the government, as in this case, was
aware that there was better data to be had, that would
rise to the level of the kind of conduct that could be
subject to equitable tolling; whereas, simple mistakes
are already addressed for the Secretary's
regulations --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what -- what
circumstances trigger equitable tolling, in your view?
MR. ROTH: Well, equitable tolling is
certainly triggered under the circumstances of this
case, Your Honor, because --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but suppose that the
fact-finding turns out that the -- that there is no
deliberate concealment, but there is merely a failure to
use the best available data.
MR. ROTH: Well, if we don't -- if we don't
have that extra level of -- of that -- of that level of
concealment, Your Honor, I don't think that we would
have the misconduct that this Court has cited in the --
in the Bowen case, and before that, in -- in Irwin and
footnote 4 in the -- in the Gluss case that would rise
to the level of which -- at which equitable tolling
would apply.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you would have to
prove that before we know whether there is equitable
tolling.
MR. ROTH: We -- we -- well, we've made that
allegation in our complaint, Your Honor. And we believe
that -- that assuming those allegations to be true for
purposes of this hearing, which --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but I'm asking you,
if you get past that hurdle, then we never -- we won't
know that there is equitable tolling until we have tried
out the question of the character of --
MR. ROTH: Absolutely, Your Honor. If we --
if we get past this -- this -- this -- and there would
be a remand, it would -- the burden then would be on the
hospitals at that time to, in fact, show that equitable
tolling could apply.
The issue in this Court is whether it should
foreclose permanently the availability of equitable
tolling, even in the face of allegations of agency
misconduct -- excuse me --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess I'm not sure I
understand this, Mr. Roth. Are you saying that, in all
of our cases about the presumption in favor of equitable
tolling, when we talk about equitable tolling, we are
only talking about misconduct or fraud cases -- you
know, as opposed to the case where it's just a person
cannot possibly know the -- the information that would
back up a claim and that we regard that as a good
excuse?
MR. ROTH: No, Your Honor. Whether it was
Henderson or -- or other cases, those cases recognize --
those cases have focused on what happened to the
claimant, and the claimant missed a deadline. Holland,
it was a deadline that was missed. There wasn't
misconduct on the other side.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Right.
MR. ROTH: And those were subject to
equitable tolling.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well because I thought that
most of your argument was built on the presumption in
favor of equitable tolling that we've recognized in
those cases --
MR. ROTH: Correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- and whether it applied to
the agency context. But now, you're saying that in the
agency context, it's -- it's a different kind of
equitable tolling that we are talking about, a more
limited kind?
MR. ROTH: Well, the -- what -- the
equitable tolling rule that the Court has found in those
other cases would certainly come into play. This case
goes farther. This case even goes farther than Bowen v.
City of New York because it has affirmative misconduct
by the Secretary.
JUSTICE BREYER: So what about -- then let's
get back to the question I really meant to ask before --
you know, assuming they have some authority here to
write a rule, you want to say a 3-year absolute rule is
not reasonable in this situation. So what is?
MR. ROTH: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, you want to go back
to the Civil War? I mean, let's imagine you really have
the strongest possible case. All the records burned up,
and it took 5 years for scientists to reproduce the
records by putting charred pieces of paper together.
Okay? So you couldn't possibly bring your claim until
they finished. That's a pretty equitable claim. 5
years okay? 10? What is the -- 100? I mean, what?
MR. ROTH: Well, Your Honor, in this
instance, the -- the question of how to limit a
circumstance where a provider is not getting paid --
gotten paid the amount promised by Congress, one way
to -- to limit that is by time.
But recall here, Your Honor, that the
Secretary could eliminate this issue entirely by simply
being more transparent. This issue arises --
JUSTICE BREYER: But what I hear you saying
is go back to the Revolutionary War. If it took 100
years to put the papers together, you're saying no time
limit at all is -- is the only reasonable solution
because there are too many weird cases or unusual cases
or misconduct cases. You've got to have some exception
in there forever.
MR. ROTH: Well, if --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right? If that is
your position, I just want to know.
MR. ROTH: That is -- that is the position
because, in order to -- to prevail in equitable tolling,
we would have to show that the providers here were
diligent, and that's a self-limiting factor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. And by the way, do
we -- are you supposed to, in such circumstances, give
the agency's own determination some weight?
MR. ROTH: The agency's own determination?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. They'll come in and
say, I don't care what the cause is, there isn't cause
here because we weren't that awful. And now, does the
judge give them some weight?
MR. ROTH: If the Secretary here decided to
attack head-on this concept of equitable tolling and
deal with this question of finality straight up and
say -- you know, here -- here is how we think that --
that finality should be -- should be handled, even in
the -- even in the context of secretarial misconduct,
by, for example, saying within the 3-year period any
provider who feels that we've misrepresented data, come
in, you can come in and look at our data, but after 3
years, the time limit is over, I think that's a rule
that could exist, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, subject to
arbitrary and capricious review under Chevron?
MR. ROTH: It -- subject, of course, to
arbitrary and capricious review on that. But the
point --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why in your case, even
assuming that there might be equitable tolling, here, is
it -- is it 10 years later? And there was this Baystate
case going on. You -- you didn't file immediately after
that litigation was instituted. You waited until those
plaintiffs won their case.
You waited till there was a decision of the
lower court. So it seems to me you -- you said there's
a requirement of diligence. Why -- why didn't you have
to file when you were first on notice, which you would
have been from the complaint filed in the Baystate case?
MR. ROTH: Well, the complaint was filed,
Your Honor, in Baystate after we brought our
administrative appeal. We brought our administrative
appeal soon after the board -- the administrative board
rendered its decision. That was the first public
pronouncement that there were flaws with the data.
There were some providers who had an inkling
that some days might have been missed here or there, but
there was no sense in the provider community that that
arose from a systematic effort by the government to
miscount and then fail to disclose that it, in fact,
miscounted and had misrepresented how it had counted the
days.
So, Your Honor, diligence, of course, will
be an issue if we -- on remand if we get -- if we get
that opportunity. But this -- but the -- but the case
here arose after the board issued its decision in the
Baystate -- in the Baystate case.
And there was a -- and there was a
discussion earlier about whether the board has viewed
its own jurisdiction as limited in some way. And the --
the fact of the matter is that -- that the board here --
and I focus on the Bradford case in particular. In the
Bradford case, the board itself made a determination
that equitable tolling should apply in another time
limit within the -- within the Medicare Act.
That case then goes up to appeal in the
Western District of Pennsylvania, and the -- and the
court says, you know what, we think equitable tolling
should apply, reversing the Secretary, who had reversed
the board's finding that equitable tolling should apply.
And in that case, the -- the Secretary didn't leave it
there.
They petitioned for -- for the court to
revisit its determination, which the court did and
affirmed its decision with respect to the application of
equitable tolling.
At that point, the Secretary abandoned -- it
didn't seek an appeal. It allowed the case to go back
to the board, and it -- and it -- and it allowed the
case to go forward, with that deadline having been
equitable tolled. So when the government portrays this
as somehow some kind of consistent view, it's not.
This board has engaged in equitable
determinations going back for those 37 years that the
good cause regulation has been in place because it is
that good cause regulation that -- that forced the --
the board to have to deal with these equitable questions
about whether -- whether or not the -- whether or not
the -- the claim should be considered timely, even
though the deadline had to be -- had to be extended.
The -- the facts that we have here, Your
Honor, is that this is really an unprecedented case.
This is an unprecedented case in Medicare, that we have
the agency that says it was doing one thing in a Federal
Register document and actually did something different,
that then spent years trying to avoid, as was laid out
in the Southwest Consulting amicus brief, avoid having
those facts come to -- come to -- come to the attention
of the providers.
There will not be floodgates that result
from this, either at the board or at the Federal court
level, because there are -- there will always be, in
Medicare, a lead case. This is what we saw in the Cape
Cod case. There, you had a case that resulted in what
looked to be billions of dollars of payments to every
single hospital in the country as a result of one
district court decision and one court of appeals
decision.
So allowing equitable tolling to address the
misconduct of the Secretary in this kind of case will
not -- will not -- will not flood the judiciary or the
agency, and it will not -- it will not require an
expenditure of money --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How many -- how many
cases are there like this pending, either at the agency
level or in court now?
MR. ROTH: Well, I think that, when the
government says there are 80 cases that are pending
involving 4,000 cost years and 450 hospitals, those
probably mostly, if not entirely, or for the most part
relate to -- to this case. And depending on how this
case unfolds, those cases will all presumably fall into
line, just as in the Cape Cod case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. Is the
miscalculation still going on? I mean, this involved --
MR. ROTH: Well, there was a change --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- claims 12 years ago.
MR. ROTH: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But did they continue
from that time forward to the present?
MR. ROTH: Well, there was a change in the
law in 2004 that now give providers access to the data,
so they can look at the underlying access to the data
instead of -- instead of the government presenting --
preventing them from being able to get access.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Kneedler, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KNEEDLER: Thank you, Mr. --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Kneedler, just for
point of clarification, the 3-year good cause extension
that's permitted under the government's regulations,
would that include -- would good cause -- or could a
claim be raised that fraud by the agency is the good
cause?
MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I think that's unclear
under the current regulation. The current regulation is
written in terms of good cause for something that
prevents the actual filing of the appeal, like a fire or
destruction of records or something.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what I thought. So
it's not as if the government is saying --
MR. KNEEDLER: No, no. But that hasn't been
tested as to whether it could. But that's not the only
avenue. In fact, the predominant avenue for raising
claims of -- of new and material evidence, which at
bottom this is, evidence that -- that there was not the
best evidence used in this match, is the reopening
regulation, and that's the regulation that was addressed
by this Court in the Your Home case. There, the Court
made clear that it was a matter of grace, not statutory
compulsion, that the Secretary allowed for any reopening
at all of past cost reports.
This sort of claim of new evidence, for
whatever reason it wasn't available, could be raised
under that. But this Court held in -- in Your Home,
that a denial of a reopening was not even appealable to
the board at all or subject to judicial review for
reasons of finality and certainty, that, at some point,
the cost years have to be closed.
And the Court specifically pointed out that
to allow administrative and judicial review of a denial
of reopening would circumvent the very 180-day
limitation that we have at issue here.
What Respondents are trying to do is to come
up with another way of circumventing that 180-day
limitation by superimposing, for the first time in 40
years, an open-ended equitable tolling regime in this
situation. The Respondents here are seeking to
recalculate payment years back to 1987. The only reason
it goes back no further is that's when the DSH payments
began.
DSH payments, by the way, go to 80 percent
of hospitals. It's not some limited category. And what
is being claimed here is -- is a mismatch of a
legislative type. It's not some concealment from an
individual provider.
With respect to the allegations in the
complaint, I'm not in a position to spend time refuting
them here. We have a footnote in our reply brief that
refers to the government's summary judgment motion in
which the allegations of misconduct are -- are
addressed.
I would like to say that -- that whatever
label one attaches, jurisdiction, claims processing,
mandating, it's absolutely clear that, from the outset
of this program, the Secretary understood and
implemented the 180-day time limit as limiting the
board's authority. It says an appeal shall be dismissed
if it's not filed within 180 days. No extension shall
be granted if requested after -- after 3 years.
That 3 years -- Respondent has conceded a
regulation that provides for coming in within 3 years to
address matters of fraud or anything else would be
valid. That's what this regulation does. And we think
there is no plausible argument at this late date in the
Medicare program to suggest that a 3-year limitation
on -- on revisiting of closed cost reports is arbitrary
and capricious under -- under this Court's decisions.
And if we're wrong, as I said, about the
validity of the Secretary's narrow good cause
regulation, which simply parallels what's in
jurisdictional provisions -- for example, notices of
appeal -- if the Secretary has no authority to do even
that, then the result is the same, there is no broad
equitable tolling.
Just one side comment on this Bradford
opinion, that did not involve the 180-day limitation.
That involved a regulatory provision. The Secretary's
consistent position has been, as we cite in the brief,
that the 180-day limitation is not subject to any
equitable extensions at all because the board is not an
equitable body. And the Medicare program, like the tax
program in Brockamp, is not one in which equities are
taken into account. You need absolute rules.
Allegations of fraud or concealment are easy
to make, but they can -- they can lead to widespread
delayed litigation, as the Baystate litigation shows,
requiring calling of witnesses -- in this case, 20 years
ago -- what happened 15 or 20 years ago. You would have
a hospital-by-hospital determination of when did the
hospital know or have reason to know what happened.
And we think that that's -- could be chaotic
in a program like this.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Manning, you argued and briefed this
case as an amicus curiae at the invitation of the Court,
and you have ably discharged your responsibility, for
which the Court is grateful.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:09 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
administration 10:11 APPEARAN... 44:11
9:9 10:19 allegations appendix 28:23 assume 10:24
57:8 41:23 49:6,6,7 56:17 26:19 50:14 25:1 44:9
25:9,20 adopt 4:24 8:6 9:12 10:13 33:5 35:21 attaches 55:11
32:9 8:19 28:1 11:23 14:25 38:18 45:22 attack 48:3
56:16 adopted 7:13 54:13 applies 22:3 attempt 40:4
12:25 15:13,18 50:17,18 54:3 39:17 Auburn 1:7 3:4
52:21,22 affirmed 50:14 ambiguous 31:4 approach 15:4 19:17 20:11
agencies 5:9 amended 19:25 appropriate 24:14 32:7
9:16,16 13:13 amici's 36:21 Arbaugh 18:22 authorization
16:2,9 18:13 17:1 51:11 48:14,16 55:24 authorizations
21:23 23:21 amount 3:14 argued 57:2 authorized
26:17,21 27:7 46:25 21:24 availability
31:24 28:8 29:12,25 answer 10:25 argument 1:14 available 7:25
39:23 31:7,20 39:15 11:2 16:10,11 2:2,5,8,11 3:3 26:2 27:18
39:18 40:5,9 16:14 25:15 3:7 13:4 16:25 28:13 29:2
44:22 45:23,24 APA 27:11,14 31:13,14 32:6 43:2,20 54:6
30:2,3 53:10 6:11,25 7:3,7 42:25 45:18 avoid 51:10,11
56:21,21 appealing 6:24 arising 37:25 57:7
40:20 appeals 3:20 7:8 49:13,20 B
32:21
43:10 agreement 40:1 7:9 9:2 16:20 articulated back 24:21
55:9 akin 6:22 19:13 30:1 31:23 32:15 33:6,14
45:6 board 3:20,23 C 53:7,9,11,14 47:20
47:6 3:25 5:1 7:8,12 C 2:1 3:1 56:2 circumvent
54:21 13:6,7,8,9 15:6 calculated 29:21 caused 27:2 40:9 54:14
17:13,14 18:4 calculation 10:2 40:10 circumventing
board's 5:3,19 capricious 27:12 certainty 54:10 citing 37:5,8
29:23 50:9 55:15 care 47:24 CFR 42:17 Civil 46:15
48:20 body 7:9 8:13 careful 20:9 challenged 36:1 claim 5:13 11:12
56:14 case 3:4 8:7 9:6 challenging 35:6 12:12 15:15
bottom 53:23 10:8,9,12 35:12 18:14,17 23:25
3:8 13:16,21 23:13 29:7,23,25 chaotic 56:24 53:10 54:5
53:4 Bradford 50:1,2 30:5,19 35:25 character 44:14 claimant 45:11
11:21,22 Breyer 15:21 41:7 43:4,6,16 24:12 claimed 55:1
12:3,15 21:3 22:10,18 43:25 44:1 characterize claims 8:1,4
26:17 30:16 32:1,24 45:4 46:4,5,16 37:12 9:10 10:20,20
40:7 46:8,14 47:5 48:18,21,23 characterizing 11:21 14:15,16
47:13,19,23 49:3,19,21 30:3 16:6 18:8
33:17 36:4,18 50:19 51:6,7 charred 46:18 42:19 52:16
36:21 37:1,11 51:17,18,18,24 Chevron 22:1,3 53:22 55:11
33:19 56:11 54:1 56:20 Chevron-eligi... 53:7
briefed 57:2 57:3,6,7 22:3 clarity 31:7
36:23 17:19,24 32:12 Chief 3:3,9 4:4 classify 16:5
42:23 broad 3:24 4:24 46:4 47:9,9,10 36:12,17,20,24 22:4 23:11
53:24 8:17 56:6 52:4,7,11 37:4 48:13 27:15 30:21
56:15 cause 6:4,7,7,14 chose 17:8 54:2 55:12
bunch 31:4 14:25 18:15 12:18 46:24 clerical 42:19
28:12 conduct 11:14 correct 15:11 Court-Appoin... 51:21,22
Congress 4:7,11 correcting 36:9 22:19 defendant 25:6
46:4 11:23 12:19,23 cost 3:17 52:8 criminal 12:7 28:10
48:9,10 16:8 17:4,8,21 54:4,11 55:24 curiae 1:21 2:7 deference 23:10
18:9,25 19:5,9 counsel 16:23 17:1 57:3 define 5:10
19:15,17,25 26:3 36:12 current 53:13 defines 17:9
30:17 20:15,17,20,22 counted 49:15 cut 32:17 40:5,8 degree 9:21 16:2
23:6 26:23 course 7:23 15:4 D delegate 16:8
30:13 37:23,25 31:12 38:5 data 10:14,18,19 27:5,17
7:18 39:21,21 40:7 court 1:1,14 42:24 43:2,5,7 29:3 42:22
15:1 46:25 3:10 4:15,15 43:20 48:9,10 43:2,19
29:9,10 consequences 10:8 11:10,23 day 18:12 54:8,13
49:3,4 19:2 13:17,19 16:20 days 3:21 14:3 Department
consider 37:14 17:3,22,24 19:14 21:8,9 1:18 4:21
51:3 19:1 20:9,12 38:3 39:14,15 10:14
construe 4:23 25:11 26:9 deadline 4:20 depends 33:8
38:6 construed 4:16 29:6,22,25 45:11,12 50:19 Deputy 1:17
25:2,13 construing 9:23 34:24 35:15 deadlines 19:10 design 18:24
28:14 Consulting 37:3 38:18 19:12,16 22:23 destruction
32:10 51:11 42:22 43:24 deal 29:13 48:4 53:16
42:23 contain 14:8 44:20 46:3 51:1 detail 21:18
contains 14:23 48:25 50:7,12 dealing 13:17 details 21:17
56:17 context 7:23 50:13 51:15,21 December 1:11 determination
48:3 48:7 57:3,5 31:8,19 50:13 56:22
52:18 7:20 24:14 deciding 7:24 50:23
11:5 15:13 18:24 7:2 48:24 49:8 16:5,9
E 47:16 48:3,19 40:10 43:18
24:22 49:23 54:19 56:7,13 42:17 fails 16:12
29:19 EDWIN 1:17 equities 56:15 expressly 7:15 43:2,19
22:8 eight 20:7 errors 10:22 19:19 22:23 fall 52:11
32:25 either 12:19 especially 9:4 41:21 far 27:7,8
51:9 51:15 52:4 ESQ 1:17,20,22 extendable farther 46:5,5
25:24 embrace 20:15 established 5:3 extending 3:25 32:22 33:11,12
16:2 22:19 establishing extension 6:7,15 37:17 38:15,21
enormous 29:19 54:5 56:13 figures 12:10
22:8,23 entirely 17:15 exactly 22:17 extent 9:20 file 21:8,9 48:21
41:13 17:15 18:20 38:4 14:19 26:22 49:2
4:11 examples 32:1 extraordinary files 10:19
equilibrium 11:24 15:1 filings 14:19
30:8 8:5,22 9:1,12 exceptions facial 4:5 34:1 36:8
29:1,22 17:7 24:25 excuse 5:4,5 18:7 20:7 21:7 54:10
50:6 25:2,4,9,12,23 14:8 26:16 27:20 28:4 find 13:4 20:13
25:24 26:1,2 41:15 44:23 29:17 31:14 20:24 29:3
42:5 43:1,9,13 expected 12:23 31:18 30:2 50:9
11:20 G 56:2 held 17:24 23:13 hypotheticals
37:10 G 3:1 gotten 46:25 54:7 12:9
54:18 game 14:5 govern 19:22 help 23:18
8:21 19:23 43:6 49:13 22:16 23:18,19 implemented
55:6 44:4,11 48:18 33:16 37:11 Honor 17:23 34:1
go 4:8 8:4 11:1 grounds 25:12 37:2,7,9,19,20 including 3:14
30:13 27:8 32:15 guess 9:7 32:15 40:20 41:22 6:6 13:4
46:3 33:6,14 37:15 44:24 42:1,10,15 incongruity 4:5
54:24 hand 25:21 46:22 47:2 incorporated
32:22 goes 31:6 34:14 handled 48:6 51:6 52:25 indefinite 42:20
35:8 39:6 46:5,5 happened 38:4 hook 38:23 indefinitely
50:5 54:22 41:12 45:10 horrible 28:2,4 42:19
45:3 going 8:6 48:21 56:21,23 28:7 individual 55:3
55:20 50:23 52:14 happens 21:10 hospital 29:20 inform 23:18
good 6:4,7,7,13 hard 12:25 19:2 30:8 51:20 information
9:21 13:20 head-on 48:3 hospitals 3:14 40:16 45:5
32:10,15 14:25 18:15 Health 1:4 4:21 27:23 30:11,11 inherent 39:3
24:11 31:5 47:5 54:25 insisted 20:23
25:3
issue 22:5 29:5 7:21 8:21 9:7 41:8,11,17,2028:9 52:21
47:3,4 49:18 11:25 12:8 32:25 43:8 lead 51:17 56:18
40:8 issues 26:25 16:23 17:2,12 Kneedler 1:17 20:3 26:23,24
28:1 J 18:19 19:23 4:4,13 5:5,11
30:17 16:25 22:10,17 23:11 7:21 8:9,23 9:8
judge 10:9 29:1 24:16,21 25:7 11:3,6,17,20
11:2 judgment 55:7 26:5,8,10,13 13:16 14:6,14
27:1 judicial 4:18 26:17 27:10,25 14:20 15:8,1046:8,15
25:19 27:9,17 34:21 30:16 31:12 53:2,3,5,6,1243:22,22 44:2
jurisdiction 5:3 36:20,24 37:4 22:15,15 32:16
32:23
7:13 17:10 40:12,19,21,25 39:14 41:8,9 40:4,13 46:23
48:11
24:17 49:24 42:3,8,12,21 46:10 47:14 50:4 55:14
35:16 jurisdictional 44:11,24 45:14 56:23,23 4:14 7:16 9:18
37:18 5:8,15,24 6:8 45:17,22 46:8 knowing 43:5 11:22 12:4
8:2 11:22 13:5 47:19,23 48:13 40:16 14:22 17:5,21
13:20,25 14:2 52:16,18 53:1 L 27:7 33:21
15:14 16:6 label 14:14,15 56:9,12
52:14 jurisprudence KATHLEEN language 5:15 46:1 49:24
15:14 1:3 21:5,7,11 32:4 54:25
26:19 21:12,13 49:25 miscounted 11:16 outset 5:18
28:2,12 32:2,3 misrepresented noted 9:5 38:14
32:14
46:14,15 45:11,12 49:11 notices 56:4
46:21 52:14 mistake 40:24 notwithstandi... P
24:25 33:9 money 12:9 52:2 number 7:6 Pacific 5:7,9
33:25 meant 20:15 morning 3:4 29:18 paid 40:2 46:24
38:1,1 46:9 motion 28:16 nursing 9:6 46:25
52:22 Medical 1:7 3:5 35:15 55:7 paper 46:18
14:25 okay 8:4 46:19 parliamentary
mentioned 32:3 narrower 42:13 once 13:14 17:9,10 21:5
mere 28:4 31:14
open 9:21 13:1 25:4 52:9
26:14
merit 23:10 necessarily open-ended 9:1 particularly
16:24,25 minute 25:15
20:5 53:2 30:4 opinion 20:20 party's 17:25
22:17 miscalculation need 9:4 11:8,8 56:9 passed 18:13
24:1 52:14
31:22,22 opportunity 22:10,12,13,16
26:4
57:2
needed 10:4 opposed 41:7 patients 30:14
31:21 35:4,23 never 18:2 41:3 opposite 30:20 33:18,18,20
41:6 42:9 43:1 54:5 3:7 16:25 26:6 payments 27:23
29:12,14 45:3,13 46:6 14:22 47:16 51:19 54:22,24
27:15 38:18 principle 9:9 44:5 put 18:24 19:1
pointed 54:12 probably 52:9 provided 4:2 46:18
9:18 20:17 15:3 20:22 40:1 Q
32:17,18 poor 30:12 41:23 provider 3:18 question 5:14
42:20 portrays 50:20 procedural 3:19,23 6:23 6:16,17,20 9:7
position 4:6 10:1 39:23 11:7,10 17:17 11:2 12:1,24
55:5 56:11 procedures 33:12,14,19 16:4,7,10,12
possibly 45:5 process 9:11 35:20 36:11 22:5 23:11,12
14:24 potentially 41:4 39:16 41:25 40:9 41:18 28:22 30:16
31:11 precise 16:15 14:15,17 15:15 3:15 9:5,25 questions 51:1
22:5 16:6 18:8,14 10:23 19:10,14 quite 8:25 21:22
predominant 24:18,19,23 31:25 32:22
2:4,13 3:8 23:1 9:2 11:9 40:14 51:13 52:21 raised 23:17
present 20:25 55:13,23 56:14 provides 3:18 53:10 54:6
presenting prohibits 30:24 provision 9:20 ratchet 36:5,5
20:16,18 52:11 promulgated 22:20 24:6 reading 18:11
presumption 5:21 20:7 22:2 33:5 36:13,14 30:18 35:12
preventing protective 31:24 public 49:8 29:22 33:14
21:4,6 pre-Civil 32:16 17:21 pursuant 3:24 reasonable 16:1
33:2 22:2 34:5,6 requirement 18:5,20 20:6 28:2,3,6 32:8
47:8 35:8,9,13 36:2 20:8 49:1 20:21 21:4,22 34:15 35:7,19
42:18 50:24,25 30:25 24:1 30:16 38:18,22 41:12
55:19,21 56:3 requisite 6:24 34:12,21 39:23 46:11,11 48:11
53:3 4:24 5:17,20 resolve 24:15 45:14 47:13 3:24 4:25 7:11
20:18 24:8 28:3 29:19 rise 43:8 44:1 35:18
regulatory respond 12:23 ROBERTS 3:3 24:18,19 26:15
Reimbursement 55:18 25:14 26:3,5 56:16
53:16 relates 9:10 16:15 22:9 53:1 57:1 run 21:16
4:24 5:2 responding 5:16 26:21 27:13 S
remains 13:20 responsibility 32:20 33:8 safety 30:10
Remember 39:5 resulted 51:18 38:12 39:10,19 save 12:9
54:3,8,14 22:21 27:9,10 45:21 46:2,13 says 4:11,12
report 3:17 34:22,25 35:3 47:22 48:2,15 28:12 30:23
reproduce 46:17 revisiting 55:24 8:10,11 9:10 scale 19:1
9:17,19 requested 55:17 47:6 12:12 14:18 13:23 14:11,16
16:18 require 52:1 right 5:23 6:1 16:6,6,11,16 15:3,9 27:25
20:4,8,14 required 4:1 14:6,20 15:21 18:8,17 23:25
33:4
21:2
12:16 17:16,17,25 24:23 27:11 34:8 38:7,11
22:25 10:12 34:1,2 38:2 Supreme 1:1,14
48:7 setting 5:1,8 16:19 21:18 statutes 4:23 susceptible
4:9,12,23 shield 11:13 sorts 20:18 32:11,12 systematic
8:3,14 27:8 Sotomayor 5:4,6 statute's 4:16 49:13
9:19,23 shielded 11:18 5:12,22 6:4 statutory 9:18 systems 22:25
Shinseki 7:2 10:24 11:4,12 13:19,24,24
14:24 show 31:6 44:18 11:18,25 12:8 14:3 15:25 T
19:17 47:17 17:12,16,20 54:2 T 2:1,1
22:23 showed 12:22 18:6,19 23:16 step 23:9 27:14 tactic 20:19
24:5,9 shows 56:19 23:24 24:2,16 27:16 take 25:15 28:18
27:2,2 side 31:13,14,16 25:7,18 26:10 story 19:21 42:25
30:3 45:13 56:8 26:13,17 27:10 straight 48:4 taken 56:16
33:5,8 sides 38:19 52:13,16,18 strict 8:19 talk 17:12 31:21
34:4 signal 20:15 53:6,17 string 32:7 45:2
37:12,13 signaled 17:4 Sotomayor's strongest 46:16 talked 18:6
39:1 19:5 23:11 subject 13:13 talking 22:12
41:12 similar 17:24 sound 20:17 17:6,7 21:12 26:25 28:8
47:3 48:2 29:24 32:22 Southwest 51:11 21:13 25:22
speak 36:3 33:22 34:25 36:6 39:23
54:3 36:10 37:17 special 12:19 38:9,14 43:9 42:11,16 45:3
56:5 simple 43:9 specific 21:5 45:15 48:13,15 45:25
7:13 8:12 33:24 38:12 35:19 54:12 submit 23:8 tax 56:14
16:17 41:22 43:5 specified 12:10 submitted 57:6 technical 21:13
35:16 47:3 56:3 spend 55:5 57:8 technically 7:6
single 51:20 spent 51:10 Subsection 17:5 terms 11:5
56:2,10 sitting 22:14 spits 40:15 23:13 17:25 18:4,4
39:22 46:12 stands 16:11 suggest 55:23 tested 53:20
29:13,18 situations 11:7 statement 26:11 24:14 26:3,4 52:25
22:11 29:13,18 statute 3:18 6:21 14:16 That's 53:17
Solid 20:11 17:9,18 18:13 superimposing 51:8
8:9,16 25:1,2,4,10,12 43:18 46:5 we're 8:6 28:7
9:8 25:23,24 26:1 two 10:21 17:4 VA 7:10,11 37:9 39:23
11:9 26:2 30:24,25 19:6,9,16 valid 16:18 56:1
13:10 31:10 38:9,17 22:25 23:4 55:21 we've 5:24 44:7
20:22 39:3,17,18 type 55:2 validity 56:2 45:19 48:9
40:22 41:7 typically 21:23 Vermont 21:25widespread
27:13 42:5 43:1,9,13 veterans 7:8,8 12:22 56:18
35:15 43:14 44:2,6 U 7:19,22 8:3willing 25:1
48:5,11 44:13,19,22 unclear 53:12 view 30:22 withheld 10:5
52:6 45:2,2,16,19 underlying 32:24,25 43:13
55:21 45:25 46:3 15:22 52:22 50:21 witnesses 56:20
47:16 48:3,19 underpaid 38:5 viewed 49:23 won 48:23
14:4 56:7 38:5 W 35:13
32:14 total 3:14 underpin 31:18 waited 48:22,24 worded 23:5
45:17 totally 5:14 understand 8:11 waiver 17:6 words 16:2
touchstone 10:11 44:25 want 8:6 16:14 30:23 38:20
touts 33:22 55:13 wanted 20:3 wouldn't 41:9
13:17 treat 12:13 17:5 Undoubtedly Washington wrong 40:15
15:2 19:6 23:9 14:11 1:10,18,22 56:1
16:22 24:22 30:14 unfolds 52:11 wasn't 35:25
20:10 treated 7:15 unfortunately 37:19 45:12 X
25:8 18:14 19:15 42:2 54:6 x 1:2,9
27:3 23:21,24 25:3 Union 5:6,9 Waste 20:11
32:14,23 treating 18:17 United 1:1,14 way 6:18 12:24 Y
34:6 tribunal 4:15 unlimited 33:10 15:19,24 19:15 Yankee 22:1
36:8 5:2 14:9 18:1 34:6 35:9 36:8 21:6 29:13 year 33:17
39:13 tried 24:7 44:13 unprecedented 34:2 35:22 years 3:22 7:14
42:20 trigger 39:5 51:6,7 37:11 42:13 8:8 9:3 19:24
47:1,7 41:6 43:13 unreasonable 46:25 47:19 20:9,23 22:13
50:3 triggered 43:15 32:8 33:3 49:24 54:17,24 29:17 32:13,14
54:18 true 10:1,2,3 unusual 47:9 ways 17:4 19:6 32:14,19 33:1
28:18 37:7 use 5:15 12:10 31:5 34:14 33:4,6,15 34:9
7:4,25 trying 9:8 23:20 U.S 33:16 weren't 7:24 51:10 52:8,16
9:1,12 51:10 54:16 47:25 54:11,19,21
13:1 Tuesday 1:11 V Western 50:6 55:17,18,19
33:1,4,6 34:9
41:13
33:15
3-year 4:9 18:16
46:21 48:20 20:2 32:9
1:15 3:2 33:21 34:13
46:21 47:6 42:6 46:11
10:19 48:8 53:7
1:5 3:4 55:23
57:7 30 28:21 39:14
52:16 30,000 3:13
33:16 37 50:23
38:1,12 38 28:21 29:9,9
27:20
39:4,5 4
56:21 4 1:11 44:1 53:2
2:7 4,000 52:8
3:21 14:2 40 3:22 7:14 9:3
21:8,9 54:18
34:17,18 405.1885 37:8
55:16 405.980 42:17
4:7,13 42 33:15 42:17
34:21 450 52:8
55:14
5
33:22 5 36:12 46:17,20
22:20 53 2:13
22:18
35:18 6
54:21 6 10:20 19:13
3:14
60 39:15
56:20,21 60-day 19:21
52:21
24:8 8
1:11 80 52:7 54:24
23:14
2:10
29:8
22:18
2:4 8:7 17:6
32:12,12
