IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JERRY W. GUNN, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 11-1118
v. :
VERNON F. MINTON :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 16, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JANE WEBRE, ESQ., Austin, Texas; on behalf of
Petitioners.
THOMAS M. MICHEL, ESQ., Fort Worth, Texas; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JANE WEBRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS M. MICHEL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JANE WEBRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next this morning in Case Number 11-1118,
Gunn v. Minton.
Ms. Webre?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JANE WEBRE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MS. WEBRE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In Grable, this Court explained that
"arising under" jurisdiction demands, not only a
contested Federal issue, but a substantial one embedded
in a State claim in order to indicate whether there is a
serious Federal interest in exercising Federal
jurisdiction over the State claim.
This Court should reverse the judgment below
because Minton -- Mr. Minton's claims do not present a
substantial Federal issue, and exercising Federal
jurisdiction over his claim and legal malpractice claims
like his, State legal malpractice claims would -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The question is whether
the experimental use -- whether that was a viable
theory. Why isn't that a substantial -- what do you
mean by, "substantial"?
MS. WEBRE: Well, Your Honor, defining
substantiality is a difficult point. I -- I would
answer in two layers. First, Mr. Minton's claim did not
involve a legal question of does the -- how does the
experimental use doctrine work; how is it applied, what
are its parameters?
The question was did his fact-bound and
situation-specific affidavit present relevant evidence
of the application here in this particular case. And it
is not a substantial question because, first, from a -
a unique case perspective, it involved merely a
hypothetical determination.
There were no actual patent rights that
would be at issue. Those were already fully, finally,
irrevocably determined in the underlying patent
litigation in Federal court.
And, second, from a jurisprudence
standpoint, the -- the question of uniformity of patent
law, any decision by a State court, in Mr. Minton's
legal malpractice claim, would not be binding in any
way, on either the PTO in a patent application, or on
any subsequent Federal court deciding a real patent
case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you mean substantial
beyond the -- the -- this particular case?
MS. WEBRE: Yes, Your Honor. And I -- I
think that that's where the Federal circuit's
jurisdictional -- the Federal circuit's "arising under"
jurisdiction standard, which the Supreme Court of Texas
applied here, that's exactly where it goes awry, is that
the court improperly conflates the -- the question of
necessity of a Federal issue with the question of
whether that issue is substantial.
And, in the Grable case, this Court
emphasized that those are two separate issues. There
are four prongs to the Grable test. The Federal issue
embedded in the State claim must be necessary to the
State claim; actually disputed; substantial; and then
there is a federalism inquiry that exercised a Federal
jurisdiction over this State claim can't upend the
proper balance between State and Federal authority.
The Grable court announced that, and then
just a year later, in the Empire HealthChoice case, Your
Honor -- Justice Ginsburg, you wrote that opinion for
the Court, and that acted sort of as an underscoring of
"and here's how limited the Grable rule really is."
The Empire HealthChoice opinion
distinguishes between Grable, which presented a merely
pure question of law, and the claims at issue in Empire
HealthChoice which were fact-bound and
situation-specific. It distinguished the -- the
question of whether a State court is competent to apply
Federal law to the extent relevant to the claims and
found that, yes, it was.
And the -- the Court emphasized that,
certainly, the State courts are going to be deciding the
occasional Federal issue here and there, but let's not
make a Federal case out of each and every State tort
claim that might have an embedded Federal issue.
Now, in the earlier argument, there was some
discussion of the fact that jurisdiction means a lot of
different things in a lot of different contexts. But,
here, this Court has, on more than one occasion,
determined that jurisdiction -- "arising under"
jurisdiction means the same thing in 1331, the general
Federal question jurisdictional grant, and 1338(a),
the -- the exclusive provision that's applicable
specifically to patents.
Now, that has been amended slightly. It -
it, now, includes compulsory counterclaims where they
didn't used to be a part, but the jurisdictional grant
that Congress gave through the first sentence of 1338(a)
uses the same exact phrase, the "arising under," "any
civil action arising under Federal law."
And, Justice Scalia, you wrote the opinion
for the Court in the Holmes Group case and explained
that the linguistic consistency between those two means
that they mean the same thing.
There is nothing unique about this subject
matter -- the patent subject matter, that changes the
scope of the jurisdictional grant. To be sure, the -
the grant of original jurisdiction to the district
courts is exclusive, and that is different from the
general Federal question.
And to be -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why isn't that
significant? Doesn't that manifest Congress's view
that -- that -- that this is -- that this is a
complicated specialty area? And so there would be,
arguably, a special reason for having these cases, cases
that involve a patent issue, in Federal court, rather
than State court?
MS. WEBRE: Yes, Your Honor. But the --
Congress did that in a couple of different ways. First
of all, I think it begs the question -- it begs the -
the core question, to say that exclusive -- the fact
that jurisdiction is exclusive answers the
substantiality because, in order to get to exclusivity
of the jurisdiction, you have to get to jurisdiction
first.
You have to -- it has to be "arising under"
an act of Congress relating to patents before it can
then be exclusive. So -- so we still have the first
step. But, also, Congress did not cast a net broader
than the general "arising under" standard.
Even under the -- the statutory framework
after the America Invents Act amendment -- under the
statutory structure, there are still a number of patent
issues -- legal issues that are going to be decided in
the State courts that do not come within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the Federal courts. For example,
compulsory counterclaims, now, come within the exclusive
jurisdiction, but permissive counterclaims don't.
Permissive counterclaims can certainly
present just as substantive a question of patent law,
and, yet, those are excluded under the statutory scheme
of 1338(a). Patent issues raised as a defensive matter
are not sufficient to support "arising under"
jurisdiction under 1338(a).
So, certainly, Congress contemplated a
situation where some patent issues are just not going to
come within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal
courts.
And I think it's interesting to -- to back
up a little bit and look at the Federal circuit's
evolved perception of its own exclusive jurisdiction.
In the early years of the Federal circuit, in 1984, the
first Chief Justice -- the first chief judge of the
court, Chief Judge Markey, in the Atari case that is
cited at page 21 of the amicus brief filed by the
American Intellectual Property Lawyers Association, the
Federal circuit wrote, "Congress was not concerned that
an occasional patent law decision of a regional circuit
court or of a State court would defeat its goal of
increased uniformity in the national law of patents."
And that was the view of the Federal
circuit's own jurisdiction in 1984. But, in the time
evolved, the Federal circuit has changed its perception
of its own jurisdiction, and that's why we are here
today, is, in 2007, the Federal circuit went awry and -
and changed the standard that no longer follows what
this Court articulated in Grable.
They -- they have improperly conflated the
necessity and substantiality components of the -- of an
appropriate Grable analysis. And they totally disregard
a proper balance of the State and Federal interests.
The Federal circuit announced that there's an interest
in -- Federal interest in uniformity of patent law, and
then that was that. That was the end of the inquiry.
There is no balance if you don't look at the State
interest on the other side.
And, in legal malpractice cases, in general
and in Mr. Minton's claim in particular, there are
substantial State interests. There is the general
interest, the right of a State to develop its own State
claims, its own State law, and its own State courts.
But there is also a State interest in
governing the relationship between attorney and client
that happens through the legal malpractice process.
But, specifically, with regard to Mr. Minton's claim,
one of his primary theories in -- in this case -- in the
legal malpractice case, is that the attorney's error,
with regard to bringing up the Experimental Use
Doctrine, deprived him of an opportunity to make a
lucrative settlement with the NASD in the underlying
patent litigation.
Well, the question of exactly how you prove
whether and to what extent the NASD would have paid a
settlement and for how much in the underlying case is a
matter of tremendous dispute right now. That is an
evolving issue in the -- in the legal malpractice
jurisprudence of the State of Texas.
In fact, in the month of December 2012, the
Supreme Court of Texas heard argument in a case called
Elizondo v. Krist that addresses that precise issue.
How do you prove that NASDAQ would have paid him
$100 million, if only these lawyers had raised this
issue earlier?
And, yet, if this -- if Mr. Minton's claims
are hailed into Federal court because of the fact-bound
and situation-specific application of the Experimental
Law Doctrine, the Federal courts would be Erie guessers
as to that important issue that the State courts really
need to resolve.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Webre, is there any
binding effect of a Federal determination here on State
law? And is there any binding effect of any State
determination here on Federal law?
MS. WEBRE: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If it was left to the
State, would what the States say about -- about patent
law be binding in any Federal cases? And, vice-versa,
if it went to the Federal jurisdiction, would anything
that the Federal court says about -- about State tort
law be binding on State courts?
MS. WEBRE: In neither direction would any
decision be binding. The -- the State -- any decision
in a State court on a legal malpractice matter regarding
issues of patent law would not be binding in any way on
the Federal courts or on the PTO in handling any of the
patent applications -- prosecution of patents.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that -- that being
so, your -- your last argument about the Federal
government messing up -- you know, State tort law in an
area that -- that is currently very much in the fore in
the -- in the decisions of the Texas Supreme Court, that
doesn't really carry a lot of weight, except in this
single case.
I mean, they are not going to mess up Texas
law in that regard. They may get this case wrong,
but -
MS. WEBRE: You -- you are right that -
that it will not, substantially, adversely impact Texas
State law, but that's an illustration of a substantial
State interest.
And, in a way, it's akin to the issue in
Grable because the -- the embedded issue in Grable that
justified this Court reaching down and grabbing a State
law claim and bringing it up into Federal court wasn't
just that the issue was disputed, the -- the
construction of that statute was unresolved. But that
it needed resolving. It needed resolving by a court
whose decision could be precedential, so then it's
resolved from then on.
And so the -- the question of how do you
prove a settlement is an issue that needs resolving by a
court who's going to advance the jurisprudence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about the Federal
issue? Doesn't that need resolving?
MS. WEBRE: There are no Federal issues that
need resolving here because it's solely a question of
the application of these specific facts in this
affidavit to the doctrine. There's -- there's no
overarching question of -- of patent law that needs
resolving.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me -- me ask this
question: Suppose you have two cases, hypothetical,
case A, case B, both involve the Experimental Use
Doctrine in Federal patent law. In case A, it's a very
weak argument; it's most unlikely it's not going to
apply. Case B, very strong argument, Experimental Use
Doctrine applies.
Any difference in the removability in those
two cases?
MS. WEBRE: I don't believe so, Your Honor,
because the question isn't the -- the significance to
the particular claim. The question is the Federal
issue. Is there a -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if -- if you say -
since you're going to say it -- I mean, if it's a
"substantial" Federal issue, then it's substantial in
hypothetical B, but not in hypothetical A?
MS. WEBRE: Well, it's -- it's, perhaps,
more necessary. But -- and maybe what I need to do is
back up a little bit and discuss what I think are the
factors for a court to look at, when deciding whether or
not an embedded Federal issue is a substantial one.
In looking at this -- this Court's
articulation in the Grable case and the Empire
HealthChoice case, the -- the issues that the Court
looked at -- one was the nature of the Federal -- of the
Federal question itself -- the Federal issue, is it a
constitutional issue?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So does that mean that,
if the claim in the malpractice action is that the PTO
acted unconstitutionally -- assume that set of facts -
how does that change your analysis?
MS. WEBRE: That -- that would be a more
substantial Federal question than the one presented
here, but I submit that it would not be sufficient to
warrant "arising under" jurisdiction here because it
is -- it involves only a hypothetical actual set of
patent rights. No judgment that can happen in a State
legal malpractice case actually impacts any patent
rights.
Let's say Mr. Minton won a judgment from a
State legal malpractice court saying, it was the
negligence, that you would have won the experimental use
exception, your patent would have been declared valid.
And so he has a judgment from a State court saying,
the -- the loss of your patent was the result of a
negligence and not because it was actually invalid.
That doesn't give him a valid patent. He
cannot take that judgment and then sue somebody and say,
look, look, I've got a patent. And it's -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So go back to -- you
were going through a list of questions, and I posited
let's assume that the malpractice claim does involve a
constitutional question.
MS. WEBRE: Yes. So -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Then what other
factors -
MS. WEBRE: Well, the -- the -- in the
continuum constitutional issues would be more
substantial; statutory issues would be a little less
substantial. In fact, this Court grappled with that in
the Grable case and said, we're not going to draw a hard
and fast line on statutory issues.
But then, in the Empire HealthChoice
opinion, the Court noted that this is a -- the issue -
the Federal issue there was nonstatutory, and so,
therefore, let's not make a Federal case out of it. So,
in that continuum, that would be one factor to look at.
Another factor to look at would be, is the
Federal issue -- the legal issue undisputed or
uncertain? Not necessarily the application of these
particular facts to the legal issue because there really
isn't a Federal interest in how this affidavit is
construed or not.
But, in -- in the resolution of the legal
issues, as in Grable, is the question of law disputed or
uncertain? And the corollary to that is does it need
resolving? Because that was the situation in the Grable
case. But just because an issue is novel doesn't ipso
facto make it a -- a substantial issue.
This Court, in the Merrell Dow case,
discussed that, that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why do all -- why do
all of these issues cut in your favor, in all cases
involving malpractice? I mean, you're urging, not just
that your client win here, but you want us to adopt a
general rule that malpractice suits involving patent
rights can never, ever come under "Federal arising"
under jurisdiction.
Isn't that -- isn't that what you want us to
say?
MS. WEBRE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So the burden would be on
you to show that every one of these factors, in all of
those cases, is always going to cut in your favor.
That -- what, that they will never involve a
constitutional issue? That they will never, ever
determine future patent decisions?
MS. WEBRE: Well, Your Honor, I -- I urge
that because I think that's the only appropriate
application of the Grable test to legal malpractice
cases. And it's not that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I like -- I like
bright-line rules. In fact -- you know, I thought
Holmes had it right. It doesn't arise under, unless the
cause of action is a Federal cause of action. But once
we've gone down -- down the road of Grable, I don't -
you're -- you're proving a negative.
The burden is on you to prove a negative,
that there is no situation that can arise in -- in
malpractice cases involving patents where the Federal
issue would justify arising. That's a hard road to hoe.
MS. WEBRE: I think there are two reasons -
there are two reasons why that's the only appropriate
way to apply the Grable test to legal malpractice cases,
and both of them involve the lack of precedent from the
case.
One is it can never involve actual patent
rights. The consequence of a judge's -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How about fraud on -- a
claim of fraud on -- that the malpractice was fraud on
the PTO? Lawyer loses that. It's been litigated.
Isn't it res judicata, and won't it affect the patent -
or might it not affect the patent in a patent action?
MS. WEBRE: No, Your Honor, it would not.
It would not affect the patent office, either, as a
matter of res judicata or as a matter of issue
preclusion -- non-mutual issue preclusion or as a matter
of jurisprudential precedence, for a couple of reasons.
One is that, as a starting point, the -- the
question of attorney misconduct can affect the issuance
of a patent before the patent office, but that would
happen not in the context of a legal malpractice claim,
but in the context of the actual prosecution of the
patent before the PTO itself.
So the PTO would have made a -- its own
determination and granted or not granted limited
sanction, whatever action it is the PTO takes in -
before -- in a proceeding before itself, the PTO would
be deciding that.
So a legal malpractice case would only be
subsequent to that. So, in -- in the first instance,
the PTO gets to decide that.
From a res judicata standpoint, the PTO's
patent review manual -- the Manual of Examination of
Patents provides that res judicata effect is only given
to decisions by either the Board of Patent Review or
Interferences, the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia, and the Federal circuit. No State
courts make that list.
So, from a res judicata standpoint, only
going right up the chain is going to bind the PTO. And,
from an issue preclusion standpoint, the PTO would never
be a party -- could never be a party to a -- a legal
malpractice claim and, therefore, would not be bound by
any State court decision.
And what's kind of a funny -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I find that somewhat
hard to follow.
Let's assume, in adjudicating a medical -- a
malpractice claim, the State court finds that the
attorney suppressed information. It's a finding of
fact. He has this information in his or her file, and
they didn't disclose it. I'm not quite sure how the PTO
ignores that litigation.
MS. WEBRE: The PTO may not ignore it. The
PTO -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or the district court
does, if it gets to review that in a later action.
MS. WEBRE: Well, but -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm only raising this
question to address Justice Scalia's point. You're
asking for an absolute rule, and I posited a situation
where I think it's not so clear that a State court
finding might not have an effect.
So do we have to go to your absolute rule?
MS. WEBRE: No, Your Honor. You do not have
to go to my absolute rule. I think that the absolute
rule is the -- the most sensible and appropriate
application of the Grable test to State law legal
malpractice claims, and it has the added benefit of
certainty. It -- it doesn't roll us back to the Justice
Holmes' rule.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess you might argue
that, even if it fails the Grable test in a couple of
isolated cases, we should still adopt that rule because
the benefits of having a -- a clear rule that doesn't
have to be litigated in every -- every case outweigh the
fact that one or two might -- might not come out that
way if we applied Grable.
MS. WEBRE: Well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because we're making it up
anyway, right?
(Laughter.)
MS. WEBRE: Well, Your Honor, I -- I would
take it a step further than that because I think that
any actual impact of -- of what you're positing, Justice
Sotomayor, is so ephemeral. The idea that -- that the
PTO will look at a fact-finding in a legal malpractice
case, and, oh, goodness, I didn't realize there was this
suppression of evidence, I'm now going to dig further.
Well, that's such a speculative and
ephemeral possibility, it doesn't disrupt the fabric of
patent jurisprudence -- patent law, in any way, and it
doesn't tie the hands of the PTO in any way. It doesn't
bind the PTO in any future consideration of a
continuation patent or any other related
continuation-in-part patent.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let -- let me ask you
this: The Brighton Miller treatise is rather
complimentary of Grable, and said it brought
considerable certainty to the area. I was pleased to
hear that because I'm not sure that it's true.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But can you just tell me,
as an -- as an empirical matter, does "arising under"
for removal jurisdiction cases consume a tremendous
amount of time in litigation in the Federal courts?
It's just -
MS. WEBRE: Well, it -- it does a couple of
things. First is it consumes a lot of time of the
courts and the litigants in removing and then getting
remanded again. And it -- as is discussed in the -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What I -- yes. What I
mean is the argument over "arising under" over
jurisdiction.
MS. WEBRE: There are, on this issue of the
legal malpractice cases, in the wake of the Federal
circuit's opinions, the Air Measurement case and
Immunocept case in 2007, scores and scores and scores of
courts -- State and Federal courts have been grappling
with this precise jurisdictional issue.
I think this case is about the fifth or
sixth cert petition that came up to this Court on this
jurisdictional question. I think there are three or
four behind us in queue, and there -- there continues to
be uncertainty in the lower courts on this precise
issue.
And -- and it really presents for this Court
a question of is "arising under" jurisdiction truly a
lenient standard, as the Federal court has articulated?
Now, it's true that the -- the entire body
of State law legal malpractice cases arising out of
patent representation is not going to overwhelm the
Federal court. It's not going to -- to -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So my question was even
broader. Let's say we resolve legal malpractice.
Then -- then we will have products liability with a
particular product, and then we will have some food and
agriculture cases. It goes on and on.
MS. WEBRE: Well, I think that is a -- that
is a -- that's a substantial issue. But, like
Justice Scalia said, that -- you know, the -- this Court
departed from Justice Holmes' construct some years ago.
But I think that there is the opportunity in this case
to provide a great deal of certainty, to provide
absolute certainty vis-à-vis legal malpractice cases
because of their unique hypothetical aspect. The
consequence of the judgment affects no rights.
But, second, in reaffirming -
rearticulating the Grable test, emphasizing the
importance and the separateness of the substantiality
inquiry, emphasizing the importance of the federalism
aspect, this Court has a great opportunity to resolve a
lot of uncertainty.
And, if there are no further questions, I
would like to reserve the -- the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Michel?
Is that correct, "Michel"?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS M. MICHEL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. MICHEL: It is, Your Honor. Thank you.
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the
Court:
This case is about whether a State court has
subject matter jurisdiction over a State law patent
malpractice claim that rests entirely on an issue of
patent law that is only heard in Federal court, and when
that issue is dispositive, central to the case, has
issues of first impression in them, has no State
analogue in any other area of the law, and whether in
the deciding issues of questions of law and will not
disturb the balance between State and Federal judicial
responsibility.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about other areas of
exclusive Federal jurisdiction, where the claim, if you
are stating it initially, would have to go into Federal
court and not State court, say, an antitrust claim, a
copyright claim?
Is -- is what you're saying about patents,
does that go for every area, where initial jurisdiction
is exclusively in the Federal court?
MR. MICHEL: No, Your Honor. It does not.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then what's the
difference between, say, antitrust and patent?
MR. MICHEL: There -- there are many
differences, Your Honor. First, antitrust has -- has a
State analogue. The Texas Supreme Court in
Coca-Cola v. Harmer, 218 Southwest -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Then take immigration
law.
MR. MICHEL: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Don't get in the weeds.
Take immigration law.
MR. MICHEL: Yes. Now, once again, the
issues -- immigration law may be a -- a different area
where there is exclusive Federal court jurisdiction in
that area, possibly. But, once again, the analysis and
the application in immigration law, from a malpractice
case, may give rise in that area.
However -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I guess I just
don't understand this. Is it the case that there is
"arising under" jurisdiction only when the Federal cause
of action presented is one over which Federal courts
have exclusive jurisdiction?
MR. MICHEL: That -
JUSTICE SCALIA: If that -- is that the
rule?
MR. MICHEL: I believe, in part.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, any -- any Federal
statute that can be sued upon, both in Federal courts
and in State courts, but as to which Federal courts are
the dispositive adjudicators, you say that that does not
come within this "arising under" rule?
MR. MICHEL: Does -- does not come within
this Court's doctrinal holdings in Grable and Empire
because we have a Federal balancing and State balancing
issue. And, as we've articulated, when Congress has
articulated -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have a case for
that, that says, if a suit could be brought in State
court, even though it involves a dispositive Federal
question as to which this Court would be the -- you
know, the last interpreter, it cannot possibly come
within "arising under" jurisdiction?
Have you got a case for that.
MR. MICHEL: I'm sorry, Your Honor. I don't
know if I followed your question.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have a case which
says that, when a Federal question is presented in a
case over which Federal courts have jurisdiction, but
also State courts have jurisdiction, although, needless
to say, the Federal courts would be dispositive on the
issue, such a case cannot come within the "arising
under" jurisdiction?
MR. MICHEL: No, I don't think anything that
expressly. But the A&T and the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would find it
extraordinary for -- for that to be the rule.
MR. MICHEL: Well, you can't isolate it.
That rule is more complicated because it is the
application of the Grable standard that's the analysis.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But getting back --
Justice Ginsburg simply made the point, I had thought,
that you place a good deal of reliance on the fact that
there is exclusive jurisdiction. And her question to me
pointed out how far-reaching this case might be because
it -- it could involve patents, copyright, all other
areas of exclusive jurisdiction. If that is going to be
your special rule, it's not so confined as you suggest.
That's all that question meant to me.
Certainly -- certainly, you -- you could have cases
where there is concurrent jurisdiction, 1983, in which
we'd have the same problem.
MR. MICHEL: I think -- I think the factors
that go into determining the -- one of the grounds that
has been articulated by Grable and the balancing for
Merrell Dow is the number of cases that would come into
Federal court, and it is a doctrinal decision. It is a
doctrinal rule.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So patent law cases of
malpractice are smaller in number than copyright
cases -
MR. MICHEL: Patent law cases -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR -- immigration, other
exclusive jurisdictions, so that's okay to -- to remove,
but those others aren't?
MR. MICHEL: Those -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does that make a whole
lot of sense?
MR. MICHEL: That is the articulation in
Grable, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, how about a
different one, the one that's being proposed by your
adversary -
MR. MICHEL: That -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- which is define
"substantial" as to how it affects Federal law, which I
think was the bottom line -- or the development of
Federal law, the bottom line of Grable.
And she says -- you dispute this in your
brief -- that it doesn't affect the invalidated patent,
that there's no way that a judgment on the malpractice
is going to be used in a continuation patent dispute
because it's not one of the listed preclusive courts.
So how does a ruling affect patent law?
MR. MICHEL: Sure. Many -- many ways, Your
Honor.
First, the test is uniformity, under Grable,
the uniformity of patent law -- Federal law, not whether
the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why is -- who's going to
follow it?
MR. MICHEL: In many situations. For
example, she -- she conflates -- Petitioners conflate,
res judicata with issue preclusion. That goes back to
your earlier question, Justice Sotomayor, and that issue
preclusion will have an affect. And as, in fact -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Issue preclusion applies
only to someone who was a party.
MR. MICHEL: Correct. That would only apply
to the inventor; it would not apply to the PTO. It can
only be used against, in this, case Mr. Minton. And, in
fact, patent counsel in this case, under the rules of
the Federal circuit, under patent law and the Patent
Manual, disclosed the State court's rulings in this case
to the Patent Office during its continuing patent. The
State district court judge made a scope and claim
decision.
So, Justice Sotomayor, back to your
question -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that, certainly, is
not binding. The -- whatever the State -- whatever the
State court says, as a matter of patent law, has no
binding effect on that question coming into Federal
court.
MR. MICHEL: It does.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How?
MR. MICHEL: Under this Court's decision
Marrese v. The Academy of Orthopedic Assertions --
Surgeons, a State court's decision is entitled to issue
preclusion, even in Federal forum. And so that is
why -- also the patent -- the continuation patent
would -- could be declared invalid for failing to
disclose that information.
We are not saying it's binding on the PTO,
but it is an issue of issue preclusion as against Minton
that would be in front of the PTO and is in front of the
PTO, as we speak.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, is that -- my
goodness, but you are going to have a purely
hypothetical State decision here. The State will have
held that -- you know, if -- if he had said this, the
result would have been something else. And you think
that that precludes the -- the issue when it arises in
real life?
And you say, since the State court made that
hypothetical determination, it precludes me from arguing
it in -- in real life.
MR. MICHEL: Yes. It is a factor -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have any cases like
that? It seems, to me, a rather weird -- weird
situation. I mean, maybe it could, but it -- it's
strange.
MR. MICHEL: Well, it is a matter of issue
preclusion. This Court -- that is the danger of
allowing these patent law issues to proceed in State
court.
This Court -- the State district court in
this case entered in a brand-new issue of Federal
interpretation -- Petitioners and Respondents totally
disagree as to whether this is a fact-specific case or
whether this case involves issues of law. And, in fact,
we contend it involves issue of first impression.
In this case, the State district court made
holdings about issues of whether the question of -- the
experimental use exception is a question of law or a
question of fact.
It made the requirement that experimental
use had to go to a required claim element, as opposed to
a claimed element. It made the determination -- and the
Court of Appeals made the legal determination that
knowledge of the buyer is conclusive, rather than as a
factor.
Those are all issues of not only disputed
substantial issues of Federal patent law that both
parties submitted briefings in the trial court and the
court of appeals, 70 pages long, disputing the legal -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Besides the parties -
MR. MICHEL: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- how else does it
affect the development of patent law?
MR. MICHEL: The -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Who else is going to
follow -
MR. MICHEL: They're -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- this malpractice
determination?
MR. MICHEL: It's going to have a really
profound effect on the patent law practitioners who are
uniquely situated and work in parcel -- and interlocking
with the Patent Office.
It is the patent lawyers who draft the
patents, it is the patent lawyers who present them to
the Patent Office, they are the ones who engage when
they need to be amended or refined or narrowed or
broadened.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They knew -- they knew
these were controverted issues. You say that they -
they are controverted issues. So they would have been
alerted to a problem anyway. And they certainly would
not accept a State court determination as authoritative
resolution of that problem.
MR. MICHEL: The patent -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The patent attorneys. I
mean, you -
MR. MICHEL: No, the Patent Office will have
to take that as guidance because their new taskmaster
will not be -- be following Federal patent law because,
in this case, the Court injected a brand-new requirement
that was never held by a patent lawyer, that you had to
have an expert witness testify to establish your
experimental use testing exception.
That's never been held anywhere in Federal
patent law. So, now, who's the patent lawyer going to
be looking to for guidance? The exclusive Federal
courts? The Patent Office? Guidance from the Federal
circuits?
No, they are going to have their backs
watched by the State courts, saying, uh-huh, you know
what? I'm going to impose a new legal obligation on
you, and you are going to be held for malpractice. And
that's not -- that's not -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What would happen -- what
would happen if that came up in an ordinary litigation
in Federal court, and the Federal circuit, ultimately,
decided the question, that the State court was entirely
wrong about this; you don't need a witness.
Well, that's the end of it, right? Once the
Federal court decides the question, then whatever the -
the State judge thought was the Federal law is -- is
gone.
MR. MICHEL: No, that's exactly the problem.
The State courts aren't bound by the Federal circuit's
holding. There will be no Federal review of substantial
issues of Federal law -- zero -- unless this Court is
going to -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. The State
courts are not bound by the Federal court's holding?
You mean State courts can resolve patent questions,
contrary to what the Supreme Court of the United States
says the law is?
MR. MICHEL: No, not contrary -- that was
the point I was going to make -- not contrary to the
holdings of the United States Supreme Court, contrary to
the Federal circuit's holding. And, in fact, the Fort
Worth Court of Appeals did not follow the Federal
circuit's holding in this area.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, are you saying,
Mr. Michel, that what -- what the State courts are going
to do is to say that, notwithstanding that the Federal
circuit has ruled on a matter and notwithstanding that
the lawyer has complied with the rule as articulated by
the Federal circuit, that, nonetheless, they will be
held to have committed malpractice because they didn't
comply with the State's rule?
Is -- is that what you think the State
judges are really going to do?
MR. MICHEL: I think the State judges are
going to try to, possibly, apply Federal circuit
holdings. And, in this case, they did not. They
injected a new holding, which established a new
liability for the patent lawyers, which is not
reviewable, unless this Court were to grant certiorari
review.
And so that then leaves the only review on
these materials -- these are going to be substantial
issues of -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what you're arguing,
they're going to make a mistake, and, because we might
not accept certiorari, that's binding on everybody
else -
MR. MICHEL: It's -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- in the State -
MR. MICHEL: No. It's binding on the State
court practitioners, in that State, who get sued for
legal malpractice. And it's that interrelationship
between the lawyers who are drafting patents -- they
are going to be getting -
JUSTICE KAGAN: What if a lawyer says to
the -- you know, I complied with all the Federal law -
all the rules in the Federal circuit, I complied with.
MR. MICHEL: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: You are suggesting that the
State court is going to say, too bad, you committed
malpractice anyway because you didn't comply with our
hypothetical law about patents?
MR. MICHEL: They did that in this case. At
214 -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not -- it's
not -- I guess it's not their hypothetical law. They
would be saying, this is what we think the Federal law
requires, and while we're happy -- or not happy -- but
it's interesting that the Federal circuit thinks
something else, but that doesn't bind us.
MR. MICHEL: Correct. Correct. And it's
not just hypothetical. The hypothetical doesn't mean
insubstantial. The hypothetical doesn't mean -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is that worse than the
fact that, if it goes to Federal court, all of the
lawyers in the State, in all malpractice cases, are
going to be, supposedly, bound by the Federal court's
holding as to State issues of malpractice?
I mean, it seems to me it's Twiddle Dum or
Twiddle Dee, whichever court system you go to, you are
going to terrorize the lawyers of that State on the
basis of an opinion of a court that is not dispositive
on those issues.
So I don't -- I don't know why -
MR. MICHEL: I think we disagree. Here,
when you try -- for example, in the patent infringement
case, the sole trial is going to be the patent
infringement.
You are going to try the Federal lawsuit,
Your Honor -- Justice Scalia, you are trying that patent
infringement lawsuit in State court, in the -- in the
case within the case analysis. The Federal rules,
that's what is so troubling about -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you -- you are trying
the malpractice lawsuit -- the State practice
malpractice lawsuit, in Federal court.
MR. MICHEL: Correct. But the application
and the rules governing it are going to be by Federal
law. The rules in this case -- in particular, the
substantial issue of the experimental use exception, the
only issue that saved was the -- the experimental use
exception. We disagree, but, just because the State
court makes an opinion and a holding, it doesn't have
real-world effects. It really does. It's not an
advisory opinion.
And there needs to be a distinguishment
between the side issue the Petitioners are saying -
they are trying to get you focus on this one micro-issue
of whether it will affect an actual patent -- as to
whether it will affect patent law. And it will affect
patent law, and it will affect the application of patent
law. And so what you're going to have is you're going
to have two divergent systems.
You're going to have -- actually, you will
have one on the Federal side, and then you will have 50
jurisdictions espousing whether they think the law is of
patent law and not being bound by the Federal circuit,
which is going to -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Anytime -- anytime -- I
mean, a lot of patent questions -- as you already
pointed out, a lot of patent questions come up in State
court litigations, contract litigations, every time you
have a patent question, then must the case go to the
Federal court, in your view?
MR. MICHEL: No, that is not our position.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what is the dividing
line between patent questions that belong in State court
and patent questions that belong only in Federal court?
MR. MICHEL: For example, not every
malpractice case -- it will be the case within the case
doctrine in a patent case that will go to Federal court.
For example, failure to communicate a
settlement offer does not have a case within the case.
In a business transaction, it doesn't have the case
within the case analysis.
So those malpractices arising from them will
not go to Federal court. Breaches of fiduciary duty for
divestiture of fees don't have the causation element.
So we are -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you are talking about a
patent case that has a patent issue, whether it's a
contract case, a tort case, a malpractice case -- if it
has a patent issue, you think it has to go to Federal
court?
MR. MICHEL: We do not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then I repeat Justice
Ginsburg's question, how do you decide which of those do
and which of those don't?
MR. MICHEL: I think this is a case in
point. This case is on all fours with Grable. There is
no exception. The only distinguishing factor is this
hypothetical argument of the case within the case
analysis.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, why don't you stay
within the lines that you give us? You have said not
every patent question that comes up in a State court, if
it's dismissed, just so you can start over in Federal
court, what patent questions -- now, let's not talk
about breach of fiduciary duty general questions -- what
patent questions are properly adjudicated in the State
court as part of a lawsuit that -
MR. MICHEL: Well, the -- the distinction
is, for example, in a licensing case, in a patent case,
where you -- those cases are brought in Federal -- I
mean -- I'm sorry -- brought in State court -- our -
our request here is following Grable, that what will go
to Federal court are legal malpractice cases arising
from substantial issues of Federal patent law that have
that case within the case analysis.
And it's that narrow -- extremely narrow
window of cases. This is not, "Katie, bar the door."
We -- we set forth the empirical numbers. They are
going to be microscopic. But what they do have is
Grable's test. Every element that Grable articulated,
this case meets.
It does involve substantial issues of first
impression.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what was the
substantial Federal matter in Grable?
MR. MICHEL: The issue of the IRS, whether
personal service had to be given under an IRS -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. And that was in the
control, the actions of the Federal agency, of IRS.
MR. MICHEL: Correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And you have no
counterpart for that here?
MR. MICHEL: We do have rules that will
govern the law on experimental use exception.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You have -- you have -
MR. MICHEL: And that would govern the
application in Federal court. That's why it should be
in Federal court, to govern how the agency -- and
whether a patent -- and this suit goes directly -- it
affects patents. This is going to patent validity.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the -- but the
Federal court -- you said before that whatever the
Federal circuit says, the State doesn't have to follow
it the next time there's a case in State court, but the
Federal court is certainly not going to follow what the
State says on experimental use.
MR. MICHEL: It does. I will tell you -
the reason why it does, it's in the doctrine of
collateral estoppel. It affects the inventor. It's
affecting the inventor in this case. This holding of
the State district court and the State court of appeals
are now before the Patent Office -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. How does
it -- the patent's invalid.
MR. MICHEL: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The patent's invalid.
Nothing the Court does here is going to change that
invalidity. That -- that's what I don't understand.
MR. MICHEL: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He's not going to get
his patent back from this action.
MR. MICHEL: That's correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He's going to get money
for losing it, maybe.
MR. MICHEL: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how does it affect
the patent?
MR. MICHEL: There is a pending continuation
patent. And -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We're back to that
issue. Okay.
MR. MICHEL: Yes, but that is a collateral
estoppel issue. Here, let me -- let me give up another
scenario because, in a different role, when the patent
is not declared invalid and, instead, there is a finding
of non-infringement, and that's what gives rise to the
legal malpractice case.
Then you go to State court, and, in that
situation, the determination of -- of infringement will
be raised as a basis for legal malpractice against the
lawyer in the malpractice action. Then the lawyers
raise, as within the case within the case exception, is
that, oh, the patent was invalid.
So, then, in that situation, a State
district court will be rendering an opinion on a live
patent, and then that will be binding on the inventor
and will affect real live actual patents, and it does
affect patents before the Patent Office.
Petitioner said we -- it's not an issue of
res judicata. They cite a rule. That's not our
argument. It's an issue of issue preclusion. It's also
the duty and the obligation of the lawyer to disclose
that judicial discussion -- discussion to the Patent
Office.
Otherwise his, continuation patent could be
declared invalid for inequitable conduct -- for not
disclosing material information.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And your -- your
distinction between other areas of Federal jurisdiction
where the Federal law controls and patent is what?
What -- Justice Sotomayor brought up immigration law -
MR. MICHEL: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- copyright law. Why
don't they -- why doesn't what you said work the same
way in those fields?
MR. MICHEL: I think there are -- there are
distinctions in the area of patent law versus any other
area of the law namely because, as we get to the
State -- and this -- this goes to the analysis of the
State/Federal balance. That's why the exclusive Federal
court jurisdiction.
That's why exclusive nationwide jurisdiction
in patent law in the Federal circuit is different than
any other area of the law. It is that balancing test
that we are required to engage in.
That's why it's unique from antitrust,
trademark, civil rights, securities, employment. Those
have concurrent jurisdiction. They may not have an
agency involved.
For example, bankruptcy initially sounds
like it's exclusively Federal court issues, but, when
you look underneath the bankruptcy, there is core
proceedings, and there's non-core. Non-core are
concurrent. Those could be heard in State court.
Secondly, those underlying issues in
bankruptcy, typically, involve State property right
issues anyway. So they are really applying whether
somebody has a perfected security interest lien, whether
somebody has a justified debt, whether -- things of that
nature.
So rather than in any other area of law,
these other areas, even if they are exclusive in Federal
court jurisdiction, some of those underlying issues are
basically based on who the party is.
And they are still applying underlying
State issues.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So your case turns on
the -- the Federal circuit having exclusive appellate
jurisdiction?
MR. MICHEL: That is one of the most
defining factors on the State/Federal balance of
judicial responsibility. Our understanding of that
analysis of the federalism and, also, the articulation
of -- just as we have showed up -- Petitioners said a
whole ton of cases were going to come in.
We supported statistics that the numbers
would be very small. But the distinguishing factor
because of the balancing test that we are required to -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But, if there's a large
Federal interest, I mean, that's a -- you're saying that
there is in the Federal/State balance -- the Federal
balance -- it's preponderant on the Federal side.
If there is that large Federal interest, is
it surprising that the government hasn't come into this
case, if there's such a Federal interest to be
protected?
MR. MICHEL: No, I think the Federal
government -- I can't -- I can't speculate to -- for
that, Justice Ginsburg. There could be just many
reasons why they didn't come in on this case, just like
they don't come in on many other cases.
But the Federal interest here, in the
national uniformity, I think, has been well stated, both
by this Court and the Federal circuit.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's a difference
between you and your colleague on what "substantial"
means.
MR. MICHEL: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And she says it doesn't
just mean necessary -- essential in this particular
litigation, but, as in the Grable case and the Kansas
City Title & Trust, has larger ramifications for many
other cases, not just this case and whether there's
going to be issue preclusion as to this particular
inventor.
Those -- I don't see an issue in this case
comparable to those.
MR. MICHEL: I think there are -- there are
a number of issues of -- of greater importance than just
this case. The question is the ongoing conflict in
Federal patent law on whether the experimental use
exception is a question of law or a question of fact.
The Federal circuit has gone both ways on
that, whether the issue of buyer knowledge is a
conclusive factor or whether it is just one of 13
factors.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Whether they -- those
questions will come to the Federal circuit, and they'll
decide it, and then they'll be settled.
MR. MICHEL: Well, we would hope they would
be settled, but, then, we're going to have this whole
other body of law out there in State courts that aren't
bound by the Federal court to answer those questions.
And those will govern the practice of patent -- patent
lawyers.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How likely is that, in
practice, that once the Federal circuit weighs in, that
the State judges will go their own way?
MR. MICHEL: I think it's a very real
possibility. We've had -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, my -- my experience
is that Federal judges, including this Federal judge,
are not interested in -- in getting into the weeds of
patent law, and, if -- if they could rely on a decision
of the Federal circuit, they would do that just as fast
as they can.
MR. MICHEL: You -- you would -- you would
think so. It doesn't appear to be the case because, in
this case, we had holdings that -- that experimental
testing had to be on a required claim element. There is
also an issue in this case of whether you had to have an
expert witness testify to prove up the experimental use
exception, nowhere held in Federal law.
The problem is these judges often will have
never handled a patent law in their career. This will
go to some judges who have been in family law, got
elected at the district court, and will never have
decided or looked at a patent law case.
We're requesting -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would that be the same
thing for antitrust, be the same for copyright?
MR. MICHEL: But the articulation isn't the
same. There are other -- in antitrust, there are State
analogs. The -- the judges are familiar with applying
it. In fact, the State of Texas, in Coca-Cola v.
Harmar, stated that there's a high interest in its own
State interest -- I mean, antitrust laws. The same with
trademark, trademark is concurrent jurisdiction.
The limited area that applies these factors,
going back to the balancing test, is extremely narrow.
Patent law is unique in that area of almost any other
area of law. We think the Texas Supreme Court got this
decision right, and we request that the Court follow
Grable and apply Grable to the case at hand.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Webre, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JANE WEBRE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Webre, can I ask you
about the question presented?
The way you presented it to us, it -- it was
as though we're -- we're reviewing whether the Federal
circuit was right to reject Grable in -- in whatever the
names of those opinions are. But. In fact, that's not
the situation at all.
The Texas Supreme Court here applied Grable,
and I think just the way you would want it applied. So
your -- your contention is simply they didn't apply it
correctly; isn't that right?
MS. WEBRE: I disagree, Your Honor. The
Texas Supreme Court didn't properly apply Grable. What
they applied was the Federal circuit's improper
departure from Grable, in two ways.
One is they conflated necessity with
substantiality, and that comes -- in the Federal
circuit's jurisprudence, that comes from a sound bite
from the earlier Christiansen case, where the -- the
line goes something like, "There is a substantial
Federal issue because it is necessary to the parties'
claim."
And so it conflates necessity with
substantiality, and the -- the Texas Supreme Court
followed the Federal circuit's construct. They said,
we're applying Grable, we're looking at substantiality,
but then they did exactly what the Federal circuit did.
And ditto with -- with the Federalism
balance. They pointed to the needs of the Federal
interest in the uniformity of patent law, and that was
the end of the inquiry.
And I think that that is a measure of the
deference that the Supreme Court of Texas -- as other
State courts would do, the deference they grant to the
Federal circuit in deciding the question of appropriate
scope of patent jurisprudence and the relative
importance of the -- the uniformity of patent law.
And so we arrive to you from the Supreme
Court of Texas, but truly presenting the -- the
appropriateness of the Federal circuit's redone
application of the Grable test.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you answer the one
point your adversary raised that -- that gives me
pause -- a lot of pause.
He says a ruling on patent law of how you
should or should not behave in a State malpractice claim
will affect all of the lawyers who practice in -- in
your State because each of them will have to do or not
do whatever that malpractice ruling was because that's
what the State is going to -- State courts will follow
in the future.
So it will change those lawyers' behaviors
in Federal court.
MS. WEBRE: Your Honor, I think that that is
such a speculative road to go down. What is it the
lawyers are going to do different? A lawyer -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They are going to
present an expert all of the time when they don't need
to.
MS. WEBRE: They are -- they are going to do
some extra work and make an extra belt along with the
suspenders that they are required to do.
And where is the harm in that? And where is
the undermining of -- of the uniformity of patent law if
a lawyer in a-- in a real patent case in Federal
court -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you can think of an
example where -- not perhaps on the facts of this case,
but where a State court's ruling could, in fact,
establish a -- a code of behavior that's not just belts
and suspenders, that's something else.
MS. WEBRE: Your Honor, I think that -- that
spinning out a hypothetical on that would be truly
speculative. It's hard to imagine a situation where it
would be contrary or intentioned with what -- what the
Federal courts would hold, particularly since it's -- I
agree with Justice Scalia's construct, that the State
courts are going to try to apply appropriate Federal
law -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about just
the -- just the flip side of this case? Let's suppose
they said, the one -- no, you don't need an expert. So
it's not belt and suspenders; it's neither belt nor
suspenders.
That's going to affect the conduct of the
lawyers in the State in the way that would be disruptive
of -- of the uniformity of Federal patent law.
MS. WEBRE: If an expert is required under
Federal jurisprudence, then an expert is required in a
real patent case. And if the State court makes the
mistake in -- in an occasional case here or there, then
a lawyer practicing in a real patent case -- in a real
case in Federal court, needs to make sure that they are
complying with the requirements.
And -- and if you're going to -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, right, the
requirements of the Federal law. The question is
there's going to be a different interpretation of what
that means in the State court and in the Federal
circuit.
MS. WEBRE: Well, Your Honor, if there is a
conflict, then what you're supposed to follow is the
jurisprudence of the courts who -- before whom you are
practicing. If -- if the Federal circuit or Federal
district court has something about patent law, then
that's what the lawyers should follow in prosecuting a
patent case.
And a lawyer who decides, I'm going to
disregard the Federal circuit standards on fact
question, expert required, whatever it is, and, instead,
follow the Fort Worth court of appeals on this issue, I
submit that -- that the lawyer does so at his peril, and
that doesn't undermine the appropriate uniformity of
patent law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:03 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
54:23 Air 22:14 42:3 51:21 23:3 25:25 49:21
23:17 AL 1:3 12:1 39:23 41:4 45:11,13,17
allowing 31:19 50:19 23:1 26:15,16 basically 45:25
17:16,16 America 8:7 17:25 29:23,24 14:9 28:18 behalf 1:15,17
20:4 American 9:6 35:22 49:25 46:9 49:13 2:4,7,10 3:8
43:2,22 amicus 9:5 50:15,18 53:8 asking 20:8 24:7 50:5
18:3,19 analogue 24:17 51:6 30:17 behaviors 52:7
38:21 25:9 appropriate Association 9:6 believe 13:20
analysis 9:20 9:20 17:10,24 assume 14:16 26:6
46:9 area 7:14 12:5 attorneys 33:17 benefit 20:16
9:22 25:2,17,19,21 Austin 1:15 beyond 4:25
51:22 45:5,22 49:20 33:14 21:16 37:7
antitrust 24:24 areas 24:21 awry 5:5 9:15 11:11,12,17,20
anytime 39:6,6 arguably 7:15 36:12 44:2
29:4,8 appeals 32:9,15 argument 1:12 15:11 20:17 body 23:2 48:8
32:19 35:9 42:17 2:2,5,8 3:4,7 27:15 29:18 bottom 29:1,2
54:16 6:10 10:24 30:7 43:2,11 bound 19:15
44:3,4 appear 48:24 12:3 13:15,16 49:21 34:21 35:1
53:15 APPEARAN... 22:10 24:6 backs 34:6 37:14 39:4
16:8 appellate 46:4 50:4 balance 5:16 brand-new
45:10 application 4:9 arising 3:12 5:3 45:1 46:7,17 breach 40:21
46:3,21 47:1 45:4 46:4 47:5 coming 30:12 21:16
48:24,25 49:2 48:21 50:10 35:17 36:22 constitutional
53:20,21,22,23 circuits 34:5 comparable construct 23:14
41:1,2 cases 7:15,15 8:25 9:12 competent 6:2 construction
10:2 11:17 22:14 34:21 complicated 12:21
23:3,10,17 cited 9:5 complimentary contemplated
28:5,8 City 47:13 21:21 8:20
5:9,18 25:25 15:13 18:6,18 compulsory continuation
7:1 9:4 central 24:15 19:15,21 24:13 6:20 8:12 21:17 29:6
cert 22:19 24:22,24,25 concerned 9:7 30:20 43:9
13:13 certainly 6:6 30:5 32:7 49:1 conclusive 32:10 44:11
8:14,20 27:24 51:2 52:1 48:1 continuation-i...
27:24 30:9 claimed 32:8 concurrent 21:18
16:2,14 33:13 42:11 claims 3:18,20 27:25 45:9,15 continues 22:21
18:2 certainty 20:17 3:21 5:24 6:3 49:19 continuing 30:4
20:23 21:22 23:16,17 10:6 11:4 conduct 44:12 continuum
22:14,15 certiorari 36:1,8 20:16 53:15 15:19 16:3
23:15 chain 19:12 clear 20:9,22 confined 27:22 contract 39:9
25:21 change 14:17 client 10:8 16:21 conflate 29:17 40:4
26:17,23 42:23 52:7 Coca-Cola conflated 9:18 contrary 35:3,5
changed 9:13,16 25:10 49:16 50:21 35:6,7 53:5
30:1,3 changes 7:5 code 52:25 conflates 5:6 control 41:20
chief 3:3,9 9:3,3 collateral 42:15 29:17 51:3 controls 44:16
33:22 9:4 24:3,9 37:2 43:13 conflict 47:21 controverted
36:25 50:2 53:10 colleague 47:7 54:7 33:11,12
38:4,4 54:1,20 Columbia 19:9 Congress 6:22 copyright 24:25
39:10,17 Christiansen come 8:10,12,22 7:19 8:2,4,20 27:20 28:9
50:24 16:23 20:24 9:7 26:15 44:19 49:12
circuit 9:2,7,8 26:11,12,21 Congress's 7:12 core 7:21 45:13
9:13,15,22 27:6 28:5 39:8 consequence corollary 16:12
19:9 30:2 46:11,20 47:1 18:4 23:19 correct 24:5
37:8,8 42:23 43:19 48:20 49:24 30:22 44:8 doctrine 4:5
41:21 44:1 45:2,12 decisions 12:6 disclosed 30:3 10:14 11:7
43:3,6 45:15,24 47:5 17:8 19:7 disclosing 44:13 13:8,14,17
50:2 51:4,13,19 44:12 22:8 Dow 16:16 28:5
52:8,21 53:20 Dee 37:17 discussion 6:11 draft 33:5
8:12,13 54:16 defensive 8:17 dismissed 40:19 draw 15:22
courts 6:6 7:8 deference 51:13 dispositive Dum 37:16
10:6 11:7,8,20 define 28:24 27:5 37:19 40:21 44:8
20:20 22:3,7,16,16 46:7 29:3,6
22:22 26:1,8,9 demands 3:12 disputed 5:13 E
29:7 34:4,7,21 departure 50:20 32:12 earlier 6:10 11:3
5:4 35:1,2,12 48:8 deprived 10:14 disputing 32:15 29:19 50:24
6:2 51:14 52:5 determination disregard 9:20 early 9:2
7:1,16 53:6,8 54:8 4:12 11:11,13 54:14 effect 11:11,12
9:4,9,9,17 court's 14:8 18:22 31:10 disrupt 21:13 19:6 20:10
11:5,19 26:13 30:3,16 32:8,9,25 disruptive 53:16 30:12 33:2
12:6,18 30:18 35:1 33:14 43:20 distinction effects 38:16
13:2 37:14 52:24 determine 17:8 40:24 44:15 either 4:21
15:2,5 currently 12:5 determined 4:15 distinctions 18:11 19:7
16:16 cut 16:19 17:5 6:14 44:23 elected 49:8
determining distinguished element 32:7,8
22:19 D 28:3 6:1 39:25 41:11
23:1,5 D 3:1 develop 10:5 distinguishes 49:1
24:10 danger 31:18 development 5:23 Elizondo 10:25
deal 23:16 27:17 29:1 32:19 distinguishing embedded 3:13
debt 45:20 difference 13:18 40:13 46:13 5:12 6:9 12:17
28:6 December 10:23 25:6 47:6 distinguishment 14:7
decide 19:3 40:9 differences 25:8 38:18 emphasized
48:5 different 6:12 district 7:7 19:8 5:10 6:5
32:2,9 decided 8:9 6:12 7:8,19 19:9 20:3 30:5 emphasizing
33:14 34:14 49:9 25:17 28:21 31:21 32:2 23:21,23
34:13,14 decides 34:17 43:15 45:4 42:17 44:1 Empire 5:18,22
35:3 54:13 52:11 54:3 49:8 54:10 5:24 14:9
36:1,13 deciding 4:22 difficult 4:2 disturb 24:19 15:24 26:13
37:12,17 6:6 14:6 18:25 dig 21:11 ditto 51:8 empirical 22:1
38:3,8 24:18 51:15 direction 11:21 divergent 38:25 41:9
39:9,11 decision 4:19 directly 42:5 divestiture employment
9:8 11:22,22 disagree 31:24 39:25 45:8
12:23 19:16 37:22 38:14 dividing 39:13 engage 33:7
42:3,4,8 28:6 30:6,16 50:17 doctrinal 26:13 45:6
30:18 31:4 disclose 19:24 28:6,7 entered 31:22
exclusivity 7:23 48:1 32:13 33:21 29:11 32:1
exercised 5:14 28:2 46:7 48:2 34:23 35:1,8,9 focus 38:20
experimental 5:25 11:5 39:2,4,11,15 54:7,11,16
15:3 32:4,6 fact-specific 41:16,20 42:3 following 33:21
41:25 42:12 failing 30:21 44:15,16 45:1 follows 9:16
49:3 failure 39:19 46:4,16,17,18 fore 12:5
54:15 27:19 48:18,21 49:4 forum 30:19
34:20 extra 52:16,16 4:16,22 5:2,3,7 53:23 54:2,4,9 framework 8:6
extraordinary 5:11,14,16 6:3 54:9,14 fraud 18:5,6,6
extremely 41:7 7:9,16 8:11,22 23:23 46:9 fully 4:14
37:23 9:13,15,21,22 Federal/State further 21:6,11
40:25 F 9:23 11:5,7,11 46:17 24:1
52:23 F 1:6 11:13,17,18,19 fees 39:25 future 17:8
33:25 fact 6:11 7:21 13:3,5,14,22 40:21
40:13 10:23 15:21 14:1,7,11,12 fields 44:21 G
43:23 17:14 19:23 14:12,19 16:1 fifth 22:18 G 3:1
49:4 20:24 27:17 16:2,5,8,23 file 19:23 general 6:15 7:9
8:3 35:8 37:12 23:1,5 24:14 find 19:18 27:10 getting 22:7
9:1 47:23 49:16 24:19,22,23 finding 19:22 27:15 36:16
25:18 50:11 52:24 25:3,18,25 20:10 43:16 48:19
27:18,21 54:14 26:1,7,8,9,14 finds 19:21 Ginsburg 3:22
34:3 facto 16:15 26:19 27:2,3,5 first 4:3,10 6:22 4:24 5:19
46:4 factor 16:3,4 28:6,25 29:2 7:19,25 8:3 9:3 24:21 25:5
29:21 54:13 hand 49:25 hypothetical initially 24:23
34:11 good 27:17 handled 49:6 4:12 13:12 45:11
40:16 goodness 21:10 handling 11:25 14:2,2,22 injected 33:22
31:3 hands 21:15 23:18 31:4,10 35:24
44:14 govern 41:25 happen 14:23 36:24 37:3,9,9 inquiry 5:14
46:3,15 42:2,4 48:10 18:18 34:11,12 37:10 40:14 9:24 23:23
47:6,10 governing 10:8 happens 10:9 53:3 51:11
49:11 38:10 happy 37:5,5 instance 19:2
43:14 grabbing 12:18 53:4 ignore 20:1 Intellectual 9:6
9:17,20 12:17 Harmer 25:10 12:14 9:22,23 10:1,5
24:23 15:22 16:11,13 5:18,22,25 immigration 16:8 45:19
28:3 32:7 17:11,17,25 14:10 15:24 25:11,15,17,20 46:16,19,21
39:10,18 20:15,20,25 hear 3:3 21:23 28:12 44:17 47:3 49:17,18
40:5 21:21 23:21 heard 10:24 Immunocept 51:10
43:19 26:13 27:14 24:14 45:15 22:15 interested 48:19
49:7 28:4,19 29:2 held 31:5 33:23 impact 12:13 interesting 8:24
29:11 40:12 34:1,9 35:17 21:7 37:6
37:12 50:10,13,18,20 hoe 17:22 23:22,23 47:20 Interferences
44:25 51:6,21 hold 53:6 51:17 19:8
Grable's 41:11 holding 34:22 important 11:8 interlocking
13:2,15 7:6,7 36:1 37:15 38:15 impression interpretation
15:12,22 51:14 42:16 24:16 32:1 31:23 54:3
19:12,12 granted 18:22 holdings 26:13 41:14 interpreter
23:4,5 18:22 32:3 35:7,23 improper 50:19 26:21
29:6,14 grappled 15:21 48:25 improperly 5:6 interrelations...
32:21 grappling 22:16 Holmes 7:1 9:18 36:14
34:2,6,8,9 great 23:16,24 17:15 20:18 includes 6:20 invalid 15:7
35:6,12 greater 47:20 23:14 including 48:18 30:21 42:20,22
36:4 grounds 28:3 Honor 4:1 5:1 increased 9:10 43:16,24 44:12
Group 7:1 5:19 7:18 indicate 3:14 invalidated 29:4
guess 20:19 11:14 13:20 inequitable invalidity 42:24
25:23 37:3 17:2,9 18:10 44:12 inventor 29:24
41:10 guessers 11:7 20:12 21:5 information 42:15,16 44:2
guidance 33:20 24:8 25:4,8 19:22,23 30:22 47:16
46:11 34:3,4 26:24 28:19 44:13 Invents 8:7
48:7 Gunn 1:3 3:5 29:10 38:2 infringement involve 4:4 7:16
52:5,11 50:17 52:9 37:23,25 38:3 13:13 15:13
53:8 H 53:2 54:6 43:20 17:6 18:1,3
54:3 hailed 11:5 hope 48:6 initial 25:2 27:20 41:13
41:5,13 45:12 50:23 51:16 36:17,21 48:8,20 49:4,6
46:2 47:20 jurisprudential Katie 41:8 51:10,17,25
31:25 J Justice 3:3,9,22 13:11,24 21:19 54:2,10,19
JANE 1:15 2:3,9 4:24 5:19 6:25 21:25 22:9 laws 49:18
17:21 January 1:9 11:15 12:2 kind 19:17 38:8 40:23
5:7,8,11 judgment 3:17 23:14 24:3,9 Krist 10:25 33:5,6 35:25
6:7,9 7:16 14:23 15:1,5,9 24:21 25:5,11 36:15 37:13,18
11:3 23:19 29:5 25:14,23 26:4 L 43:22 48:11
12:16,17 judicata 18:8,12 26:7,17 27:1 lack 18:1 52:2,7,11
13:1,4 19:4,6,11 27:10,15,16 large 46:15,19 53:16 54:11
14:1,7 29:18 44:6 28:8,12,16,20 larger 47:13 layers 4:3
15:25 judicial 24:19 28:24 29:14,19 Laughter 21:4 leaves 36:3
44:9 46:8 29:21 30:7,9 21:24 left 11:15
17:7,22 jurisdiction 30:15 31:2,13 law 4:19 5:24 legal 3:20,21 4:4
19:13 3:12,16,20 5:4 32:16,18,21,24 6:3,24 8:15 9:8 4:20 8:9 10:2,9
5:15 6:11,14 33:10,17 34:11 9:10,23 10:6 10:12,21 11:23
24:13,15 6:15 7:7,22,24 34:25 35:11 11:7,12,13,17 14:24 15:2
27:6 7:24 8:11,13 36:6,11,17,21 11:20,24 12:4 16:5,7,10
8:19,22 9:1,12 37:2,11 38:2,6 12:10,14,19 17:11,25 18:18
9:14 11:18 39:6,13 40:2,8 13:9,14 16:11 19:1,14 20:15
14:21 16:24 40:8,16 41:15 20:15 21:14 21:9 22:13
38:12,13 22:2,11,25 41:19,22 42:1 23:3 24:12,14 23:3,7,17 32:9
40:3,5 24:12,22 25:2 42:7,19,22 24:17,18 25:12 32:15 34:8
43:12,14 25:18,25 26:2 43:1,4,7,11 25:15,17,20 36:14 41:4
47:15 26:22 27:3,4,7 44:14,17,19 28:8,11,25 43:18,21
49:2 27:18,21,25 46:3,15,25 29:2,8,12,12 lenient 23:1
54:16 44:15 45:2,3,9 47:6,10 48:3 30:2,11 31:19 let's 6:7 15:1,13
11:24 49:19 50:2,6 51:22 32:19 33:2,21 23:7 40:20
14:10 jurisdictional 52:12,22 53:7 34:2,18,23 53:11
5:3 6:16,21 7:6 53:10 54:1,20 35:4 36:18,24 liability 23:8
24:16 22:17,20 justified 12:18 37:3,4 38:11 35:25
25:17 jurisdictions 45:20 38:22,23,24 licensing 40:25
32:3 28:13 39:3 justify 17:22 39:3,4 41:5,25 lien 45:19
33:11 jurisprudence 44:16,17,19,23 life 31:8,11
34:23 4:17 10:22 K 44:24 45:4,5 limited 5:21
37:15,20 13:2 21:14 KAGAN 35:11 45:22 47:22,23 18:22 49:20
50:25 19:1,15,21 Merrell 16:16 non-infringe...
36:14,23 37:13 26:3,6,12,24 NASD 10:15,18 novel 16:14
19:25 39:17 40:4 28:11,15,18,23 national 9:10 28:5,9 47:20
34:12 41:4 43:18,21 29:9,16,23 47:4 numbers 41:9
43:22 52:1,4 30:14,16 31:12 nationwide 45:3 46:12
39:23 32:23 33:1,16 45:21 O
manual 19:5,5 35:5,12,21 necessary 5:12 obligation 34:8
15:10,10materials 36:4 41:21,24 42:2 51:3 offer 39:20
21:9 matter 1:11 7:5 42:13,21,25 need 11:9 13:4,6 office 18:11,17
7:5 8:17 10:20 43:3,6,9,13 14:4 16:12 30:4 33:4,7,19
18:13 22:1 46:23 47:9,19 52:13 53:12 44:4,10
51:6 31:17 35:14 49:13 needless 27:4 okay 28:13
23:25 22:10 26:7 Miller 21:20 17:19 ones 33:7
39:7,8 31:2,15 33:18 million 11:2 negligence 15:3 ongoing 47:21
35:2 37:9,10 Minton 1:6 3:5 15:7 opinion 5:19,22
49:18 Minton's 3:18 net 8:4 44:1
4:20 Measurement 18:16 new 33:20 34:8 opposed 32:7
22:14 mistake 36:7 35:24,24 oral 1:11 2:2,5
14:15,24 medical 19:20 53:21 nonstatutory 3:7 24:6
16:20 meets 41:12 money 43:4 16:1 order 3:14 7:23
17:11,21 merely 4:11 month 10:23 non-core 45:14 ordinary 34:12
34:2,2,4 35:2 point 4:2 18:15 problem 28:1 4:4,7,10,18 5:6
38:23 39:4,7,8 51:23 proceed 31:19 10:17 12:25
39:8 51:9 18:24 13:22 14:12,19
51:17,25 52:19 practice 38:7 9:21 47:21,23,23
10:3 53:22 54:10,12 practicing 53:22 50:18 54:2,15
16:7 54:19 54:9 property 9:6 questions 15:12
38:11 patents 6:18 8:2 practitioners 45:17 24:1,18 35:2
9:10 12:1 33:2 36:13 proposed 28:21 39:7,8,14,15
25:1 27:20 18:14 54:11 48:4,9
42:6 44:3,4 precedential 12:1 18:19 quite 19:24
45:25 42:22 precise 10:25 prove 10:17 R
7:5 pending 43:9 precludes 31:7 17:19 49:3 raise 43:23
8:8,15,17 perception 9:1 31:10 provide 23:16 raised 8:17 11:2
9:8,23 9:13 preclusion 23:16 43:21 51:23
11:16,24 perfected 45:19 18:13,13 19:13 provides 19:6 raising 20:6
13:9,14 peril 54:17 29:18,20,21 proving 17:18 ramifications
15:4 permissive 8:13 30:19,24 31:18 provision 6:17 47:13
8:14 44:7 47:15 PTO 4:21 11:25 reaching 12:18
17:8 personal 41:18 preclusive 29:7 14:15 18:7,20 reaffirming
perspective 4:11 preponderant 18:21,23,24 23:20
petition 22:19 46:18 19:3,12,13,24 real 4:22 31:8
21:14 Petitioner 44:5 present 3:18 4:8 20:1,2 21:9,15 31:11 44:3
Petitioners 1:4 8:15 33:6 21:16 29:24 48:15 52:20
24:12,14 1:16 2:4,10 3:8 52:13 30:23,25 31:1 53:20,22,22
28:8,11 29:17 31:23 presented 5:23 PTO's 19:4 realize 21:10
38:19 46:10 14:19 26:1 pure 5:24 really 5:21 11:8
50:5 27:2 50:7,8 purely 31:3 12:7 16:7
31:19 phrase 6:23 presenting p.m 54:22 22:24 33:1
33:2 place 27:17 51:19 35:20 38:16
requirement role 43:15 51:16 sole 37:24
requirements rule 5:21 16:22 22:15 somebody 15:9
requires 37:5 20:18,21,22 23:20 somewhat 19:18
19:6,11 29:18 27:13,22 28:7 securities 45:8 42:19,21
18:14 reserve 24:2 ruled 35:14 see 47:17 Sotomayor
resolution 16:10 rules 17:14 30:1 sense 28:17 14:14 15:11,16
50:4 resolve 11:9 38:11 41:24 sentence 6:22 20:3,6 21:8
12:22 13:1,4,6 serious 3:15 32:16,18,21,24
24:20 46:8 34:7 35:11 39:20 Southwest 25:10
right 10:5,20 11:10,15 12:2 simply 27:16 speculative
14:23,25 16:23 33:17 34:25 43:20,25 50:12 standards 54:14
45:8 40:2,8 48:17 situations 29:16 19:4,11,13
road 17:17,22 Scalia's 20:7 4:8 6:1 11:6 starting 18:15
46:14 ROBERTS 3:3 scenario 43:15 slightly 6:19 4:19 5:12,13
52:17 24:3 37:2 50:2 scheme 8:16 small 46:13 5:15,16 6:2,6,8
54:15 53:10 54:1,20 scope 7:6 30:5 smaller 28:9 7:17 8:10 9:9
10:4,5 strange 31:16 suppression theories 10:11 truly 22:25
strong 13:16 21:11 theory 3:24 51:19 53:3
structure 8:8 Supreme 1:1,12 thing 6:15 7:3 Trust 47:13
subject 7:4,5 5:4 10:24 12:6 49:12 try 35:22 37:23
24:12 25:9 35:3,7 things 6:12 22:6 38:1 53:8
15:2,5 submit 14:20 49:23 50:13,18 45:20 trying 38:2,6,20
54:17 51:4,13,18 think 5:2 7:20 turns 46:3
22:16 submitted 32:14 sure 7:6 19:24 8:24 14:5 Twiddle 37:16
24:11,12 54:21,23 21:23 29:9 17:10,23 20:9 37:17
subsequent 4:22 53:23 20:13 21:6 two 4:3 5:10 7:2
26:9,14 19:2 Surgeons 30:18 22:18,20 23:11 13:12,19 17:23
27:4 substantial 3:13 surprising 46:20 23:15 27:8 17:24 20:24
3:19,24,25 suspenders 28:2,2 29:1 38:25 50:20
31:4,4,9 4:10,24 5:8,13 52:17 53:1,13 31:6 35:19,21 typically 45:17
32:2 10:4 12:14 53:14 37:4,22 39:3
34:7,14 14:1,1,7,19 system 37:17 40:5,11 44:22 U
15:20,21 16:15 systems 38:25 46:23 47:4,19 uh-huh 34:7
23:12 28:25 48:15,24 49:23 ultimately 34:13
32:13 34:22 T 50:14 51:12 uncertain 16:6
36:4 38:12 T 2:1,1 52:9,22 53:2 16:12
39:8 41:5,13,16 take 15:9 21:6 thinks 37:6 uncertainty
40:18,22 47:7 50:25 25:11,15 33:20 THOMAS 1:17 22:22 23:25
42:9,10 substantiality takes 18:23 2:6 24:6 unconstitutio...
4:2 7:23 9:19 talk 40:20 thought 17:14 14:16
44:25 23:22 50:22 talking 40:2 27:16 34:18 underlying 4:15
46:2 51:4,6 taskmaster three 22:20 10:15,19 45:16
49:14 substantially 33:20 tie 21:15 45:24 46:1
51:14 12:13 tell 21:25 42:13 time 9:12 22:3,6 undermine
substantive 8:15 terrorize 37:18 24:2 39:9 54:18
sue 15:9 test 5:11 17:11 42:10 52:13 undermining
sued 26:8 36:13 17:25 20:15,20 Title 47:13 52:19
14:20 41:11 45:5 ton 46:11 45:13
19:8 suggesting 51:21 12:4 40:4 5:20
36:21 testify 33:24 totally 9:20 understand
46:7 support 8:18 49:1 49:19,19 46:8
supposed 54:7 49:16,23 50:13 tremendous 29:12 47:4
15:20,23 37:14 51:19 trial 32:14 37:24 53:17 54:18
weak 13:15 years 9:2 23:14
35:3,7 5:1 7:18 11:10 zero 34:23
13:5,20 14:3 $
1:4 3:4
1:13 3:2
13:13,16 22:5,12 23:11
54:22
32:4,7 50:3,4,6,17
48:1
38:12,13 52:9,15 53:2
6:15
42:12 53:18 54:6
6:16,22
49:3 Wednesday 1:9
1:9
30:17 weird 31:14,14 2
went 9:15 11:18 2007 9:15 22:15
win 16:21 3
worse 37:11 70 32:15
17:25 9:7
21:14,15
44:21 X
50:8,14 x 1:2,7
50:20 year 5:18
