IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MISSOURI, :
Petitioner : No. 11-1425
v. :
TYLER G. MCNEELY :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 9, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:14 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JOHN N. KOESTER, JR., ESQ., Assistant Prosecuting
Attorney, Jackson, Missouri; on behalf of Petitioner.
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Petitioner.
STEVEN R. SHAPIRO, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf
of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JOHN N. KOESTER, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae, 15
supporting the Petitioner
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
STEVEN R. SHAPIRO, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 32
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN N. KOESTER, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 61
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:14 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case Number 11-1425,
Missouri v. McNeely.
Mr. Koester.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN N. KOESTER, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KOESTER: Thank you.
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the
Court:
In the course of a drunk driving
investigation, quickly securing blood alcohol evidence
with as little delay as possible is incredibly
important --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How come it took so long
for this State to figure out that it needed to do this
without a warrant?
MR. KOESTER: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The officer testified
that he's been making drunk driving arrests for years --
MR. KOESTER: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and I think in only
one circumstance did he need to do it without a warrant.
So what made the need here eminent in the sense of
impractical to get the warrant?
MR. KOESTER: Well, Your Honor, back in
2003, there was a -- an appellate court case from
Missouri that dealt with the importance of the words --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, I understand why he
decided to do it, to forego getting a warrant. Isn't
his testimony dispositive of this case? He had time to
get it.
MR. KOESTER: Your Honor, that -- that
ignores the fact that had he sought a warrant -- there's
no question that he would have been able to secure a
warrant. The issue was, it was going to take a
considerable amount of time.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it took a
considerable amount of time for all the years he did it.
MR. KOESTER: That's true, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And -- and he didn't
testify to it -- it causing a loss of any particular
case.
MR. KOESTER: But in this particular case,
it was going to take 90 minutes to two hours to secure
the warrant. And during that period of time, the most
probative evidence was going to be dissipating, was
going to be lost.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he said -- he said in
the ten or so cases he had had in the past, I had -- I
encountered no difficulty getting a warrant in prior
cases. There was nothing that distinguished this case
on the facts from other cases on the facts.
MR. KOESTER: That's correct, Justice
Ginsburg, he never had a problem securing a warrant, but
there was a delay; and that's -- that's the difference.
We're -- we're looking at a delay, and quickly securing
blood alcohol evidence is important because the -- the
evidence is being lost at a significant rate with every
minute that passes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What constitutional
right exists for a State to get the best evidence?
MR. KOESTER: Well, Justice Sotomayor, I
think that that is something that we should always
strive for, to be able to get the best possible evidence
in the case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, no. You, the
State, want to strive for that. But what in the Fourth
Amendment contemplates that that's a right the State
must have, that is has to get the very best evidence it
can?
MR. KOESTER: The -- the touchstone of any
Fourth Amendment analysis is the reasonableness of the
search. And it's reasonable -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how can it be
reasonable to forego the Fourth Amendment in a procedure
as intrusive as a needle going into someone's body? I
say this because breathalyzers in my mind have a much
different intrusion level. They don't intrude into your
body. And I think almost all jurisdictions use
breathalyzers instead of blood tests. A small fraction
that actually use blood tests.
The ruling by us today is going to change
that and is going to -- if in your favor is going to
change that and is going to -- if in your favor, is
going to change that and put sort of a print, the
Court's print, on: Use the most intrusive way you can
to prove your case.
MR. KOESTER: And, Justice Sotomayor, I
would -- I would disagree with that. If the Court rules
in our favor, I think the end result will be more people
will agree to take the breathalyzer test. In this case,
the arresting officer gave the defendant an option to
take the breathalyzer test and when he clearly told him
he was not going to take it, that's when he decided to
take him to the hospital in order to draw the blood.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why don't you force him to
take the breathalyzer test, instead of forcing him to
have a needle shoved in his -- in his arm?
MR. KOESTER: For practical --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what is the
difference between the reliability or the acceptability
by juries of a breathalyzer test, as opposed to a blood
draw?
MR. KOESTER: Justice Scalia, both tests are
very reliable. We rely on the breathalyzer test on a
daily basis, but for practical reasons it's very
difficult to force a drunk driver to take a breath test.
The breathalyzer instruments, they measure deep lung
alveolar air.
And you have to take a very deep breath.
And one police officer told me it's sort of like you can
put a balloon in front of somebody's mouth, but you
can't make him blow it up. It's very difficult for
practical reasons to force someone to -- to blow into
the breathalyzer.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we are talking about
reasonableness, do you think it's relevant for us to
look to the rules and practices of other States?
MR. KOESTER: Justice Kennedy, as the
Respondent points out, there are 25 States that would be
opposed to -- to the warrantless blood draw at issue in
this case. And as I point out in the reply brief, 15 of
those States have joined amicus Delaware urging this
Court to reverse the decision of the Missouri Supreme
Court, but I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the fact that those
States do have a warrant requirement and from what we
can best tell make it work very well, including some
expedited procedures where you can get warrants within
minutes -- it takes usually the policemen, say, 20
minutes to get just to the hospital or the police
station anyway.
MR. KOESTER: And, Justice --
And if -- if we see that other States, a
significant amount of other States, number one, require
the warrant, number two, many of those have expedited
procedures, does that bear on our determination of
reasonableness?
MR. KOESTER: I don't believe it does,
Justice Kennedy. I think, as -- as Virginia v. Moore
plainly teaches, individual State laws do not affect
whether or not this activity was reasonable under the
Constitution.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we have -- have
always -- correct me if I'm wrong. I think that we have
always thought of Fourth Amendment reasonableness
standards as being a national standard. Suppose 40
States -- you know, we can play the game. Suppose 40
States had rules that you have warrants and many of them
had expedited procedures. That's still irrelevant? We
don't look at that at all?
MR. KOESTER: Your Honor, I think this
Court's decision in Sampson v. California is
instructive. In that particular case, the Court
approved suspicion-less searches of parolees, and I
think a vast majority of States disapproved of that
particular law enforcement practice. But that does not
bear on the issue of whether or not that violates the
Fourth Amendment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course we don't know why
they disapproved. And I guess your point is they may
well not have permitted it because they were under what
you would call the mistaken belief that it was
unconstitutional.
MR. KOESTER: I suppose that is -- that is a
possibility, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there any showing that
conviction rate in those States is lower than in the
States where the practice is -- is to take the test
without the warrant?
MR. KOESTER: Your Honor, I think amici
National District Attorneys Association cited a study.
I know the Respondent also cited a study that shows it
doesn't have any bearing. But I think it's -- it's
pretty clear that if you have concrete evidence of a
drunk driver's blood alcohol content, concrete evidence,
that gives you a far greater case, a far greater chance
of securing a conviction at trial.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So the new rule is we
have to strengthen -- the Fourth Amendment is going to
be suspended whenever the prosecution can't get the best
evidence to make its case out?
MR. KOESTER: No, Justice Sotomayor. I
think as long as a police officer has probable cause,
what -- what we're saying is it's objectively --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Probable cause is
not enough. If you have probable cause, then you can
get a warrant. But it was and I think still is the main
rule that if you can get a warrant, you must do that.
Probable cause is surely not enough. Then we'd never
need a warrant when there's probable cause.
MR. KOESTER: You are absolutely right,
Justice Ginsburg, probable cause is not enough. But
probable cause coupled with the indisputable fact that
alcohol is eliminated from the human body with every
minute that passes after a drunk driver is pulled
over --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Koester, suppose that,
instead of waiting two hours, there were procedures in
place in Missouri and, indeed, across the country where
it was possible to get a warrant in these circumstances
within 15 or 20 minutes. Would you still be saying that
there is a sufficient exigency to avoid the warrant
requirement?
MR. KOESTER: I think if a particular
jurisdiction had perfected the warrant process to the
point where they could routinely obtain search warrants
in 15 minutes, I think we would have a different
outcome. I think that would affect the analysis of the
case. But with all due respect to the hypothetical, I
think it is a time-consuming process to obtain search
warrants.
JUSTICE BREYER: So why can't you do that?
I mean, the only virtue I see in saying you have to go
get a warrant is the officer picks up the phone, there
is usually somebody on duty, a magistrate somewhere, he
phones him up and says, I have a drunk driver here; he's
wobbling, he can't cross the center line; and he won't
take a breathalyzer; I want to give him a test.
Now, you have a second judgment and the
officer has to talk to somebody, so he's a little more
careful. And that's a protection, not necessarily for
this person, but a protection for others who maybe
weren't wobbling.
All right. So I think that's the question
you're being asked. Why -- what's the problem with
doing that? Which adds a little bit of security that
this warrant really is -- this search is really
necessary.
MR. KOESTER: Justice Breyer, I think in
practical application it is going to be more of a
time-consuming process, though, to obtain the search --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why wouldn't it take --
let's see, how long did it take me to say that? It took
me about 30 seconds. So -- so even if you are a lot
more careful, why would it take more than, say,
3 minutes?
MR. KOESTER: To obtain a search warrant --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what you do is you
have a system, and you phone up and you do just what I
said. And this man or woman who is there is not a
policeman. That's the virtue of it is this man or woman is
trained to listen to policemen and others say things and
try to pin him down a little bit and make an independent
judgment. So -- so why would it take more than 5
minutes?
MR. KOESTER: Well, Justice Breyer, that's
why I drew the analogy between the telephonic search
warrants that were approved back in the 1970s. It
sounds like that would be an instantaneous procedure,
but some of the lower courts that have actually examined
the process, they came to the conclusion that it's still
a time consuming process --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Koester, in most
jurisdictions, unless I'm mistaken, the cop on the beat
cannot apply for and get a search warrant. He has to go
through a prosecuting attorney or someone in the
prosecutor's office first. So it's not just getting
hold of a judge. It's getting hold of the prosecutor
first and then getting hold of the judge if the
prosecutor approves it, right?
MR. KOESTER: That is -- is absolutely
correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that the case in
Missouri?
MR. KOESTER: That is the case in Missouri.
The prosecution attorney --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In some cases I
suppose the judges actually want to read the affidavit
and give it some thought. It's not going to be 3
minutes.
MR. KOESTER: That's exactly right,
Mr. Chief Justice. I think if we were to the point
where we were approving search warrants in 3 minutes, it
would essentially be a rubber stamp --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But we do have -- we do
have, I think, an indication that there are
jurisdictions that do it inside of a half-hour.
MR. KOESTER: That -- that may be true,
Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So do you define
reasonableness --
JUSTICE KAGAN: You suggest that 15 or 20
would be a different case. I am wondering where you
would draw the bright line.
MR. KOESTER: That's a difficult question,
to draw a bright line for exactly when we would draw the
line where -- where the exigency would disappear.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So would the importance
of the search warrant suggest, as a constitutional
right, suggest that we should judge reasonableness by
the people who are the least efficient or by the people
who are the most reasonably efficient?
MR. KOESTER: Well, Justice Sotomayor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Meaning people, police
jurisdictions.
MR. KOESTER: In -- of course, local law
enforcement practices are going to vary from
jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Absolutely, but should
they -- should we permit them to vary in terms of
inefficiency or should we be encouraging them to vary
within a reasonable range?
MR. KOESTER: Well, I think prosecutors are
always going to strive to -- obtain search warrants as
efficiently as possible. But whether or not this was a
reasonable search does not depend upon local police
practices.
If there are no further questions, I would
like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Members of the Court
have intruded on your rebuttal time, including me, so we
will give you a little extra.
MR. KOESTER: Thank you.
Ms. Saharsky.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MS. SAHARSKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Here the police are facing a certain destruction of
critical blood alcohol evidence. Every minute counts,
and it's reasonable for the officers to proceed without
a warrant.
I would like to pick up where some of the
Court's questions led off: This idea that we might live
in a world where warrants could be gotten so quickly
that -- there is not true exigency. First of all, that
is not state of the world now. There is substantial
variation from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and we are
just not in a place where the time to get the warrant
everywhere is 15 minutes or less.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- I mean, once we say
that you don't need a warrant -- you know, even if
things improve, the game's up, right? No?
MS. SAHARSKY: No, I don't think that that's
true at all. The police do not have --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You mean somebody can come
up 10 years from now and say, although you approved it
10 years ago without a warrant, things have changed, so
now you need a warrant?
MS. SAHARSKY: I think that if the world
changed so that every police officer had an iPad and
that judges were always on duty and that the warrants
could be gotten that quickly, you would consider that
and you would also consider the other sources of delay,
which are the time to get to the hospital, etcetera,
etcetera. But yes, I would -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But if that's the case,
then why shouldn't that determination be made case by
case?
MS. SAHARSKY: Because --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Case by case, whether in
fact it would have taken that long to get a warrant?
And if it -- if it would have taken too long, then it's
okay without a warrant. If it wouldn't have taken that
long, it's bad.
MS. SAHARSKY: The question --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Totality of the
circumstances test, right?
MS. SAHARSKY: Right, but the totality of
the circumstances are with respect to the destruction of
evidence and what the police are witnessing. They know
there is certain destruction of evidence and what they
are weighing that against is uncertainty about whether
there's time to get a warrant. They have no idea what
this person's blood alcohol content is. They have no
idea how fast it's decreasing. They might --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Saharsky, what about
saying at least they should try, since a number of
jurisdictions can do this within a half hour, say,
initiate the process while you are going to the
hospital; when a half-hour is up you proceed; but at
least there has been an effort to get a warrant.
MS. SAHARSKY: I think there -- I think
there are legal problems with that and practical
problems with that. The legal problems is that the
Court has never suggested that the police are both
simultaneously in require-a-warrant land and not in
require-a-warrant land.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, we have -- I don't
want to because you have multiple answers -- but on that
point, we do talk about exigent circumstances. If -- if
we proceed as Justice Ginsburg's suggestion indicates,
then the fact that you can't get a warrant within
45 minutes is the exigent circumstance.
MS. SAHARSKY: Right. I mean, in all of the
destruction of evidence cases the Court has said,
There's destruction of evidence; we're not going to make
you wait until half of it is destroyed or three-fourths
of it is destroyed or something like. And that's the
rule really that Respondents want. Everyone --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But Justice Ginsburg said
30 minutes.
MS. SAHARSKY: Right. And what I'm saying
is as a practical matter, I think it would be very
difficult to -- to suspect that nationwide folks could
get warrants in those circumstances. You typically have
one police officer on the scene who is making the
traffic stop, asking the person questions, taking him
through the field sobriety test. That would have to be
the officer who would do the affidavit in support of the
search warrant because he's the one who's witnessing --
JUSTICE ALITO: Jurisdictions have an
incentive to get a warrant, I would think. Even if
they -- even if we were to say that they don't need one,
they certainly have a strong incentive to get warrants
because it insulates the search to a much greater degree
from later challenge -- at a suppression hearing. So
why shouldn't it depend on the practicalities in a
particular jurisdiction?
Not every jurisdiction has prosecutors and
judges who are staying up at -- you know, 3:00 o'clock
in the morning on Sunday morning waiting for the phone
to ring or for -- to receive some sort of an electronic
message that there has been a stop and somebody wants
a -- wants a search warrant. Maybe -- you know, big
jurisdictions can do that, but small ones can't.
So why -- but if you are in a big
jurisdiction that -- or one that feels that they can
afford that, then why should -- you know, why should the
Fourth Amendment permit the search to take place without
the warrant when it could have been obtained practically --
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I mean, a couple of
responses. First of all, this Court makes nationwide
rules and the question is whether it's reasonable to do
what Missouri did here even if other jurisdictions would
choose to or could do it differently.
But second -- you know, this idea with respect
to -- that it should matter based on the time to get a
warrant is something the Court has never done in its
Fourth Amendment exigency cases. And it may be the case
that a court looking backwards could say, well, we think
you had enough time to get a warrant.
But the police officer where he stands with
the person, he knows a few things. He knows one thing
for sure: That evidence is going to be lost, and it's
critical evidence. It's not just to get above .08, but
you have these laws that are enhanced with --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought -- I thought
that we often said that you look at whether or not you
can get a warrant before you can break in so that the
drugs aren't flushed down the toilet and so forth. We
make that judgment all the time.
MS. SAHARSKY: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And if that showing is not
made, you must get a warrant.
MS. SAHARSKY: But the Court -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So I think it's quite
incorrect to say that we -- we don't look at the time
factor.
MS. SAHARSKY: I think it matters as a
general --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We look at it all the
time.
MS. SAHARSKY: I think it matters as a
general matter whether warrants take time to get and
whether evidence is lost. But the Court has never gone
jurisdiction to jurisdiction. It has never
second-guessed the police in the way that the Court is
suggesting today.
In Kentucky v. King, for example, an
exigency case, the Court said the police could have
proceeded a couple of different ways here; we are not
going to make them use the least restrictive way; we are
just going to ask whether what they did was reasonable.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I agree that there is a
uniform standard. But -- and I don't know if you ever
did finish the answer to Justice Ginsburg, but she --
she had suggested that we have a uniform rule of exigent
circumstances. That -- her suggestion complies with
your objection.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, if I am understanding
it correctly, I think our point is this, which is that
the police officers have to act reasonably in the
situation. And in a situation they know for sure the
evidence is going to be lost, they know that every
minute is critical. For example, Respondent here's
blood --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there are so many
situations in which we require a warrant, nevertheless.
When there is drug dealing in a house, every time people
enter that house, it's almost a certainty that they're
going to use the drugs and that evidence is going to
disappear. You rely on hope -- on knowing that there's
likely to be telltale signs left over.
And that's the same thing you do in an
alcohol situation. You rely on the testimony of the
police officer, you rely on the implied consent
presumption. It's not as if this is destruction of all
evidence, and -- and not like a fleeing situation where
someone gets away, you have nothing left. This is --
this is vastly different.
MS. SAHARSKY: I mean, with respect, we
disagree. This evidence is critical, and the number
matters. I mean, it is the case that blood alcohol
evidence is the most important evidence. This Court has
recognized this in several cases -- Schmerber,
Skinner -- and since then the law has only changed to
make it more important. In 2005 you had --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You mentioned Schmerber.
Why did the Court go through all of the -- why -- it
could have made it a much shorter opinion by simply
saying, yes, blood alcohol dissipates. But it didn't.
It -- it pointed out that in that particular case there
was a delay to investigate the accident, the person had
to be taken to the hospital for care, so how much time
elapsed? I think it was two hours, wasn't it?
MS. SAHARSKY: The Court -- made a mention
of two hours, but that was not a critical portion of its
analysis. We don't think that that mattered to
Schmerber because the Court said, first, there was clear
probable cause in that situation. Second of all --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was all the -- why
was it in the opinion?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, it's one line in the
opinion. If you look at it, the Court says, we are told
the percentage of alcohol in the blood begins to
diminish shortly after drinking stops, the body
functions to eliminate it from the system. Particularly
in a case like this, time had to be taken to bring the
accused to a hospital and to investigate the scene --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. They didn't need to
say any of that.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, they said particularly
it means there's an extra thing. But it doesn't mean
that the first thing wasn't enough. And what we say is
if there was some uncertainty in Schmerber, the Court's
case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't mean that it
was enough, either, right?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, that gives me the
second part of my answer, which is the Court's cases
since Schmerber have relied on the destruction of this
evidence being enough for exigency.
And I would just point the Court to look at
Skinner, at South Dakota v. Neville, at Winston v. Lee,
and even in a footnote in Kentucky v. King. This Court
has not said anything about the person having to go to
the hospital and whether there was an investigation --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel for Missouri tells
us, Ms. Saharsky, that the breathalyzer is just as good
and that in fact he expects that the consequence of our
ruling in his favor in this case will be that drunken
drivers will agree to the breathalyzer test.
But I don't know why it isn't adequate to
produce that result simply to put the drunken driver in
a -- in a paddy wagon and on the way to the hospital
say -- you know, we're going to be in the hospital in
20 minutes; we're applying for a warrant; when we get
there, we're going to -- we're going to -- you know,
stick a needle in your arm, unless, of course, you agree
to take the breathalyzer test. Why isn't that enough
to -- to force them into the breathalyzer test, so that
they will blow up the balloon.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, because in that
situation, I think they're willing to take their chances
that the evidence is going to dissipate below the .08
standard or below these higher enhanced penalties, .15,
and then be able to challenge it, as opposed to if they
gave the evidence that they potentially wouldn't be able
to challenge it.
But I think the point that comes --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Or maybe they're drunk.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, but, but -- I mean,
Justice Scalia raises a point, which is you always have
some delay. Unless you are talking about sticking a
needle in somebody roadside, you have to take them to
the hospital. So there's going to be some amount of
time which you're going to lose, and why can't you use
that amount of time, if you can, to try to get a
warrant?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I think there are two
answers. One, you typically as a practical matter have
one officer on the scene who's proceeding with this and
he's the one that would have to prepare the affidavit,
typically the one to consult with the prosecutor. He's
the one who's going to drive to the hospital.
Presumably, we don't want him texting during driving, et
cetera.
The second answer is a legal answer, which
is that the Court has been very hesitant to second-guess
the police in these circumstances and to say when the
police are in a fluid situation they have to, say, try
to get a second officer on the scene and maybe do the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now, I think you should be
fair. He doesn't have to prepare a written affidavit in
a number of these States. It's a telephonic warrant.
You have to give us that.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, even in some of the
telephonic -- telephonic warrant procedures, you still
have to have a written document. You just write it out
and then you read it to the judge and then actually a
record needs to be made of it. The case United States
v. Reid in the Fourth Circuit actually considered this
and said -- you know, it sounds like it won't take that
long, but it turns out these procedures actually take a
while.
And it's not just the time to get a warrant.
It's the initial time that had been taken at the stop,
the investigation, the field sobriety test. Then,
there's the time to get to the hospital. And -- you
know, sometimes these people, these folks, get to the
hospital and they're not given first priority, so
there's sometimes some waiting at the hospital. So a
significant --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So is it okay -- is it
okay to let police officers take the blood?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, we think that's a
different question and one that the Court reserved in
Schmerber. The Court said there was medical personnel
in a medical setting taking the blood in that case.
That's the exact same thing that's happening here.
But it said if we had a different case, we'd
ask whether the -- the situation invited an unjustified
element of personal risk of infection and pain. So we
think the Court should get a case that has a record on
this and then it could make a determination as to
whether there is that risk.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Oh, I bet that if we
rule in your favor, we will.
MS. SAHARSKY: I'm not sure that that's
true. The reason that a few States have considered
having police officers get trained in this way is
basically out of necessity. It is just in rural
jurisdictions it's too far to get to the nearest
hospital.
But it's fair to say that police officers do
not want to be in this business of taking blood. It
diverts them from their other activities. It's -- you
know, it's an extensive training process. So I -- I'm
not sure that that's true, but it's not something the
Court has to decide --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you want to be in
those rural places and be stopped without an independent
magistrate approving a field officer taking blood from
you?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, what I'm saying is that
there are only a few States that are doing it now, and I
think it is -- it should be -- the Court should wait
until it actually has a record to make that
determination. But -- you know, there has been training
along those lines.
That's something, for example, that NHTSA at
the Department of Transportation has helped these States
investigate whether it's a real option because the
police officers are very far away from -- you know, the
nearest hospital and that it's -- it's all based on this
concern about destruction of evidence.
But just to get back to --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think going back to
Justice Scalia's question, if a person does take a
breathalyzer, is there ever a reason for a warrantless
blood test?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes. As a general matter,
you would not need to obtain a blood test -- you know,
practically because the evidence is not the same, but --
you know, substantially as good. The blood test is a
little better in that you have a sample that sticks
around as opposed to one that is gone. You also get two
samples, so the defense can test it, and it is better
evidence with respect to whether it's susceptible to
challenge.
You also might have someone who consents to
a breath test, but because, as you pointed out, they're
so drunk they can't give a good sample, like they say
they'll provide a sample, but they really just can't.
And then there's another case that is not
the fact here, but something we would want the Court to
be careful about, which is driving under the influence
of drugs. Those do not show up on a breath test, but
the police officers might have very good reason to
believe that the person is under the influence, such
that they might take a breath test and get a zero
reading, but still want to take a warrantless blood
test.
So all the Court needs to do to resolve this
case is say where this person refused a breathalyzer --
actually, the exact same facts of Schmerber -- it was --
it was reasonable for the police to say, we know this
evidence is going away, we know it's going to be lost,
maybe we can get a warrant quickly, maybe we can't, we
don't know what his blood alcohol is, we don't know when
it's going to dip below .15, .08, let's just go ahead
and proceed.
JUSTICE KAGAN: All this talk about -- you
know, losing evidence every second, I mean, I suppose
the exact same thing could be said in other
alcohol-related crimes, public drunkenness, underage
drinking. You wouldn't be making the same arguments
there, would you? Or would you?
MS. SAHARSKY: No. I mean, the -- the
question you'd ask will be the same, which would be a
reasonableness balancing test, but I think the
government interest on the side of that balance would be
very different from the ones at issue here. You know,
the Court here has said that drunk driving is a serious
public safety problem. We're talking about one person
being killed every 51 minutes, despite everything we've
done in the last 3 decades.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So it's not just exigency
that you're -- you're saying that there should be a
weighing of the costs and benefits here.
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes. That's what the Court
did in Schmerber. It looked at the intrusiveness of the
blood test in this context and then it looked at the
government's need for the evidence. And the need for
the evidence in the cases you're positing we suspect the
Court would not think as strong as the evidence here.
But just to get back to some of the
questions the Court has had about the time to get
warrants, I mean, the evidence that the Court has before
it is that it would take at least an hour and a half to
two hours to get a warrant here. That's in the Joint
Appendix, page 54. Even though the person said -- one
officer said he could get in touch with the prosecutor
and judge, he did not quantify how long it would take.
There's also an exhibit that the defense --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Incidentally, it wasn't
clear to me: Is that 1 hour from the time of the --
pardon me -- two hours from the time of the stop or two
hours from the time he put him in the back of the patrol
car? Do we know?
MS. SAHARSKY: It's not entirely clear, but
I think it's two hours total. There was also on page 70
of the Joint Appendix an exhibit that the defense put in
that make it look like one and a half hours to two hours
total. I also --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can finish your
thought.
MS. SAHARSKY: There's one other piece of
data, which is a NHTSA study that's referred to in the
briefs, about where the court -- where folks in four
States where warrants were required tried to get them
quickly as possible.
They put the judges on staff, they tried to
do it electronically as much as possible, and still
there it was one and half to two hours. That's on page
37 of that study.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Shapiro.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN R. SHAPIRO
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. SHAPIRO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The issue in this case is whether the State
may stick a needle in the arm of everyone arrested on
suspicion of drunk driving without a warrant and without
consent. Missouri's answer to that question is yes,
even in routine DWI cases like this and regardless of
how quickly and easily a warrant could be obtained.
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought the question was
if -- if in fact the person won't agree to a
breathalyzer.
MR. SHAPIRO: The question is -- it's not
clear to me. Number one, Your Honor, there's nothing in
the record to suggest that the driver is always first
offered the opportunity, the choice of choosing a
breathalyzer as opposed to --
JUSTICE BREYER: Was your client was offered
the breathalyzer twice?
MR. SHAPIRO: This client was offered the
breathalyzer, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: How many times?
MR. SHAPIRO: And declined it twice, that's
correct, Your Honor.
But under Missouri's proposed rule, there is
no role at all for a neutral and detached magistrate.
The decision whether an individual can be required to
submit to a nonconsensual blood draw, often while
handcuffed and physically restrained as my client was -
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, aside from all --
the thing, what it boils down to, at least in my mind,
is, is yes, of course it would be better to -- to have a
neutral person hear what the policeman has to say and to
act as a second judgment on that; it would make it less
likely that people who are really innocent, in fact,
have this happen to them and so forth.
But they're arguing that that's a -- that's
a considerable burden in many, but not all States. And
at some point -- and the addition in respect to the
second judgment, namely the magistrates that you get, is
not worth really what you're going to lose, which are
going to be people who are drunk driving around on roads
and -- and possibly killing people. We all know how
that side can be built up, too.
MR. SHAPIRO: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: So at some point, I would
wish you would spend some time addressing that, that
practical argument.
MR. SHAPIRO: I'd be happy to answer that
question right now, Your Honor. I think there are two
responses. One is Missouri specific and case specific
and one is more generic because I think it's important
to remember they are not asking simply to reverse the
suppression motion in this case on the grounds that the
facts of this case made it reasonable to do a
warrantless blood draw.
What Missouri and the United States are
urging is a categorical exemption to the warrant
requirement in all DWI cases nationwide. So we have to
think not only about --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is this a lot of sound and
fury signifying nothing? I mean, what -- what advantage
do you think your client would -- would really get from
the warrant requirement other than the delay that that
would entail allowing his blood alcohol to reduce
itself?
Are the -- for some warrants, let's say a
warrant to go into a building where the police contend
there may be drugs, the policeman will -- will you know,
the magistrate will say, What evidence do you have that
there's drugs? Well -- you know, two weeks ago we had
this informer, yesterday we saw this and so -- you know,
all sorts of different factors.
In these DUI cases it's always going to be
the same thing. The policeman is going to say, well --
you know, his breath smelled of alcohol; we gave him the
walk a straight line and turn around test, he flunked
it; he couldn't touch his nose with his index finger.
What is the impartial magistrate possibly going to do
except to say, hey -- you know, that's probable cause.
Are any of these warrants ever turned down?
Are they ever turned down in your experience?
MR. SHAPIRO: Your Honor, I do not know the
answer to that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I bet you they're not.
MR. SHAPIRO: But I think it's also true,
Your Honor, that warrants in general are rarely turned
down, that the overwhelming percentage of warrant
requests in all criminal cases are granted -- are
granted by magistrates.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But in many of them there
is a lot of judgment that has to be brought to bear: Is
this a reliable informant, how long ago did he tell you,
and so forth. Whereas, in all of these cases it's going
to be the same thing: His breath smelled of alcohol, he
couldn't walk a straight line, and whatnot. And -- and
that's the probable cause. And I don't see how the
independent magistrate is going to do you a whole lot of
good, except for the fact that it will delay the
process.
MR. SHAPIRO: This Court's entire Fourth
Amendment jurisprudence, Your Honor, rests on the
proposition that the privacy safeguards of the Fourth
Amendment benefit by having a neutral and detached
magistrate review the evidence before the State does
something as intrusive as putting a needle in somebody's
arm.
And I could imagine a situation --
JUSTICE ALITO: What if the State has a
form; we have some forms in the Joint Appendix. What if it
has a form for the officer to fill out? He checks
certain boxes, and then you send this electronically to
a magistrate, and if the right boxes are checked, the
magistrate will grant the warrant.
Is that -- do you think that is consistent
with the Fourth Amendment?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, it's something very
close to what Missouri already has, Your Honor. In Cape
Girardeau County the prosecutor has prepared
standardized forms which the police officer then fills
out, presents to the prosecutor, the prosecutors sends
on to the magistrate and the magistrate decides whether
to grant the warrant. But I think that cuts in exactly
the opposite direction, which it shows that the process
of obtaining a warrant is not very elaborate and it need
it not be very timely.
And I can imagine, in answer to
Justice Scalia's questions, I can imagine circumstances
in which an officer might apply for a warrant in a
situation where they have not asked the driver, for
example, to go through the field sobriety test; said as
they -- as we stopped the driver on the road, he was
going 10 miles over the speed limit, I questioned him,
his speech was slurred, his eyes seemed bloodshot, I
want to do a blood test.
And the magistrate in that circumstance
might say, did you at least perform the field sobriety
test? Did you at least offer --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about that field
sobriety test? Suppose the person who is apprehended
and is suspected of being drunk says, I'm not going to
walk a straight line. I'm going to just sit here. You
can't make me do anything without a warrant.
Do you need -- if the defendant doesn't
consent, do you need a warrant to -- to have the
standard sobriety test?
MR. SHAPIRO: Do you mean do you need a
warrant to have the field sobriety test?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. SHAPIRO: Is that the question, Justice
Ginsburg? I don't think you need a warrant to require
somebody to put his finger to his nose or to walk a
straight line or to stand on one foot. I would not say
that that is a search within the meaning of the Fourth
Amendment that triggers the warrant requirement.
But there is no doubt that putting a needle
in somebody's arm triggers a warrant requirement. And I
think there are really two --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about a
breathalyzer, do you need a warrant for that?
MR. SHAPIRO: I think you probably do need a
warrant for a breathalyzer, Your Honor. But --
Missouri's position is you not only don't need a warrant
for a breathalyzer, you don't need a warrant for a blood
test. And we don't -- this is not a breathalyzer case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know what
Missouri's position is, and I know it's not a
breathalyzer test. But if the logic of your position
leads to the requirement of a warrant for breathalyzer,
that would be pertinent in analyzing your position.
MR. SHAPIRO: I think -- I think, Your
Honor, it -- I would say that requiring somebody to
produce, to breathe into a machine for -- in order to
gather evidence for the State's prosecution is a
state -- is a search that should probably trigger the
warrant requirement, but it is certainly a less -- it is
certainly less intrusive, Your Honor, it is certainly
less intrusive than -- than the blood test --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It bears considerably on
the reasonableness, doesn't it? I don't know why you
want to bite off more than you can chew.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, I certainly don't want
to bite -- I want to bite off --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a different case and
what is reasonable for sticking a needle in your arm is
not necessarily reasonable for asking you to blow up a
balloon.
MR. SHAPIRO: Your Honor, I certainly want
to bite off as little as I have to chew in this case,
but -- but there are two salient facts because I think
it is important to focus on what is before the Court in
this case. And what is before the Court in this case is
a warrantless blood draw, and the two salient facts in
my mind are, one, as I said, case specific.
You have a State trooper here who has been
doing this for 17 and a half years. He testifies at the
suppression hearing that he has only been required to
seek a warrant fewer than ten times. Why is that? That
is because the overwhelming number of drivers, in fact,
give their consent. And in the ten cases over those
17 years where he had to seek a warrant, he testifies
that he never had any difficulty obtaining a warrant,
and there is certainly no indication that those warrants
in any way interfered with the State's ability to
prosecute those cases.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Shapiro, could you
tell me, and what I am deeply troubled about in your
argument, is you incant the totality of the
circumstances test. But what circumstances is the Court
actually looking at to determine whether forgoing the
warrant was necessary or not under that circumstance?
We know one. We know where a fatality has occurred or a
serious accident because we -- presumably you have to
secure the scene and you have to take care of injured
people or have cars towed, whatever else it is.
But I'm not sure what other circumstances
under your theory would really justify a magistrate -- a
court below saying, you -- you know, it's okay, you didn't
get a warrant here. It can't be merely because it takes
too long to get the warrant because that shows
inefficiency. It was part of my question earlier.
MR. SHAPIRO: Yes, so that's exactly
correct, Your Honor. I think the Court got it right in
Schmerber. I think the question is: Are there special
facts that are extrinsic to the warrant process itself
and that are beyond the control of the police that
significantly impede the ability of the police even to
initiate the warrant process.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose you are in a
rural -- in a rural jurisdiction and it takes a long
time to rouse a prosecutor and a magistrate at 3:00 in
the morning to get the warrant. You would say, that's
too bad, everybody has -- the whole country has to
operate like New York City, you have to have somebody on
duty all the time.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, Your Honor, Cape
Girardeau County is a rural county in southeastern
Missouri --
JUSTICE ALITO: But I'm asking you a
hypothetical question. I -- I bet there are places like
that. I have encountered magistrate -- Federal
magistrate judges who were unreceptive to receiving
warrant applications in the middle of the night, and
that is known to -- to exist. Suppose you have a
jurisdiction like that? Does that count as a
circumstance that would justify a warrantless taking of
blood?
MR. SHAPIRO: I would say no, Your Honor. I
don't think the State ought to be able to take advantage
of its own failure to modernize an expedited --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the magistrate is
unavailable because he or she is ill?
MR. SHAPIRO: Then I think that's a
different situation, Your Honor. I think that -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you agree that
that's an exigent circumstance which would allow a
warrantless blood sample?
MR. SHAPIRO: I think it might well if the
magistrate were unavailable and there were no
alternative magistrate.
But the second salient fact, Your Honor --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Shapiro, that's a separate question,
isn't it? I mean, one prong of your argument is you
need individualized circumstances, you can't have a per
se rule. And now this other set of questions is about what
you get to count in the totality of the circumstances
test; is that right?
MR. SHAPIRO: That is correct,
Justice Kagan.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So one could disagree with
you and one could think, as Justice Alito and
Justice Kennedy suggested -- you know, you do take into
account that it's the middle of the night in a rural
county and it's going to take two hours, but still
think, well, that's the analysis you have to go through.
MR. SHAPIRO: That is correct,
Justice Kagan. And the second fact though I just wanted to
come back to, and this came up briefly during my
opponent's argument, is we know that there are half the
States in the country by our count, 26 States in the
country that by statute have prohibited warrantless
blood draws in routine DWI cases. They are listed on
page 31 of the red brief in Footnote 9.
Given that fact, in the face of that
reality, I don't think Missouri can plausibly claim that
a categorical rule that would then apply nationwide if
this Court were to announce it in the context of this
case, that warrants are never required in routine DWI
cases, could satisfy the standard that this Court has
established, namely that the exception to the warrant
requirement that is being proposed serves law
enforcement needs so compelling that a warrantless
search is objectively reasonable in every case.
There is no evidence that I am aware of, in
response to Justice Kennedy's question, and there is
certainly no evidence in the record in this case or in
the briefs in this case that those 25 States that
prohibit warrantless blood draws in the circumstances
that my client confronted here have a lower conviction
rate, are less concerned about drunk drivers --
JUSTICE BREYER: A lot of States have
varying degrees to which they want to enforce strict
rules against drunk driving. And a State -- that's
exactly the kind of thing that worries me on your side.
The -- you have a bunch of States that don't -- you
know, it's not easy to get hold of a magistrate in
15 minutes or so forth. And so what to do about that?
If you say, well, you don't have to because
you haven't got it provided, you give them every
incentive not to make the magistrate available. That's
cutting in your favor. On the other hand, it's pretty
tough to say that all these States have to have the best
possible magistrate available 24 hours a day so somebody
can call in ten instances a year because the guy won't
take the blood test -- won't take the breathalyzer.
And that's where I am in a dilemma. And so
I'm looking for an answer to that. And you don't have
an absolute rule or I don't see an absolute rule.
Should you say, look, here's what you have to do, it's
better to have a second opinion there, which is the
magistrate's?
And so on the way to the hospital, it's just
that's where we started, you have to phone and try to
get one, and if you don't have one by the time you're at
the hospital, tell them again: It's your last chance,
give us the breathalyzer or else. And he says no,
then you take the blood test. Is that the solution, or
do you have a better solution? What's the solution to
the problem if you are willing to reject, which you
aren't, but hypothetically you might be, that there's
the absolute rule.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, I would say several
things. First of all, Your Honor, I really do have no
reason to believe that there's any jurisdiction in the
country at this point that is not deeply concerned about
drunk driving, or recognizes that drunk driving is a
serious problem. That is certainly not our position.
Secondly, the reason I think that there is
no evidence that in the States that prohibit warrantless
blood draws in routine DWI cases like this have lower
conviction rates is, number one, in most cases, they can
obtain consent; number two, in cases where they can't
obtain consent, they have been able to obtain warrants
in a timely -- in a timely fashion; and number three,
even in the absence of warrants, all the facts that lead
to probable cause often create a very compelling case
for conviction in the absence of the blood alcohol --
JUSTICE BREYER: My question is what you
don't want to do and you don't have to, but if you think
of a second-best solution it might always be better than
what I think of as a second-best solution.
MR. SHAPIRO: I have enormous confidence in
you, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: I -- I want to know if you
want to say anything that would suggest -- we have a
number of them floating around and -- and I just wonder
if you want to express any view on a second-best
solution.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, well -- well, our -- our
position, and I'm not sure whether you're classifying
this as our first position or -- or something else --
our position is that within the context of Schmerber, if
there are special facts external to the warrant
requirement, then you have to apply a totality of the
circumstances test, and you ought to apply a
reasonableness standard.
In the context of the delays that are
intrinsic to the warrant requirement, absent and if any
evidence that those intrinsic delays have interfered
with the ability of 25 States in the country to enforce
their drunk driving laws, this Court ought not to adopt
a categorical exception to the -- to the warrant
requirement.
And the risk of doing it, as you pointed
out, Justice Breyer, is then you create this odd
disincentive, which is the States that have the most --
have the slowest and most cumbersome warrant procedures
are the States that get a free pass and are able to
override the Fourth Amendment. That seems to me -
JUSTICE ALITO: That's not true because
there's a great advantage to the prosecution in having a
search with a warrant as opposed to a warrantless search
in terms of suppression; isn't that correct?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, there is some advantage
to having -- certainly, a search that is conducted
pursuant to a warrant is much less subject to
suppression than a search that is subject not pursuant
to a warrant. But -- but there is generally speaking in
these cases a probable cause that is derived from the
officer's observations on the scene and the defendant's
performance in the field sobriety test, that -- that --
you know, can support the warrant -- support -- support
the search.
But I think --
JUSTICE ALITO: Can I ask you this question?
How much blood has to be taken in order to test for
blood alcohol? What if medical technology advances
to -- I gather it's a -- it's a substantial amount. But
what if it advances to the point that you don't need any
more blood than you need now to test blood sugar, and
you just have a little machine that makes a tiny prick
in somebody's finger and you've got enough blood to do a
blood alcohol test. Does it change then?
MR. SHAPIRO: I don't -- excuse me -- I
don't think the Fourth Amendment rule turns on the
amount of blood that you take out of somebody's body. I
think the Fourth -- an important, maybe not the
important dividing line, an important dividing line for
Fourth Amendment purposes is puncturing the skin, and
the Court has recognized this in other circumstances.
And I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So does that mean --
the last footnote in the Solicitor General's brief talks
about some other methods, including a urine sample. Not
as accurate as blood, but it can help achieve the same
result. One of the things that I think affects the view
in this case is it's a pretty scary image of somebody
restrained, and -- you know, a representative of the
State approaching them with a needle. But I take it you
would say you need a search warrant for a urine sample,
too?
MR. SHAPIRO: This Court has said that, Your
Honor --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. SHAPIRO: -- in a variety of
circumstances with drug testing cases, where they
weren't even law enforcement cases, they were special
needs cases. The Court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about -- what
about this device that you just sort of hold in front of
that you don't have to blow up the balloon, you just hold
it in front of the individual and it measures to some
extent blood alcohol content, or at least whether the
individual's been drinking? Surely you don't need a
search warrant for that.
MR. SHAPIRO: I think that -- I think that's
probably -- I think that's probably correct, Your Honor.
You presumably do not need a search warrant, a search
warrant for that. And this Court held, first in
Schmerber and then reaffirmed in South
Dakota v. Neville, that there is no Fifth Amendment
issue in requiring the defendant to produce the evidence
that can then be used against you. So we know we're not
talking about a self-incrimination problem; we're
talking about a search and seizure problem.
And if the government were able to obtain
the evidence in a way that did not rise to the level of
a search, then the warrant requirement wouldn't apply.
But we are not there. We're not there.
And -- and the -- the warrant process
that -- that Missouri has described is -- is not as
complicated. There are many places now that, number
one, permit not only telephonic warrants but electronic
warrants, where officers are equipped in their patrol
cars with laptop computers. They can fill out these
pre-prepared forms in a matter of minutes -- e-mail them
to the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're in an odd --
odd position to be making -- it's an understandable
position -- your argument is these warrants are just
easy as -- as pie. You just send in this thing, the
judge does it in an instant, it doesn't take very long
at all. It seems to me that that diminishes the
protection of the Fourth Amendment to a far -- far
greater extent.
The idea is that the prosecuting attorney is
supposed to spend some time looking at this before
submitting it to the judge and the judge is supposed to
spend some time examining it. But the idea that you're
going to do these things in a half hour seems
unreasonable to me.
MR. SHAPIRO: But I don't think it's
unreasonable, Your Honor, and it's because we all
recognize that the evidence in these cases is relatively
routinized, and the procedures are relatively
standardized. But that does not mean there is not a
value to the warrant process, and to the second look by
a mutual and detached magistrate. And the value of --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Shapiro, could you
go back to what in this conversation we sort of have
lost focus of, which is the question presented, and
which is the essence, I think, of your adversary's
arguments. I'm not sure you've really put forth -- the
essence of their argument is that you can forego the
warrant requirement when you know for a fact that
evidence is going to dissipate over time.
Basically, they're saying this process
undermines our right to get a warrant because the
evidence is dissipating. We certainly have cases that
talk about destruction of evidence being a reason to
forego the warrant. What makes this case different from
those?
MR. SHAPIRO: I'd be happy to answer that
question, Justice Sotomayor, if I could just complete my
answer to the Chief Justice for one second.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Sure.
MR. SHAPIRO: And my answer would be that
even if there are boxes on a standardized form, there is
value to making sure that the prosecutor and the police
have checked off all the right boxes before they engage
in a process as intrusive as putting a needle in
somebody's arm.
Now, in answer to Justice Sotomayor's
question, I think -- I think there are multiple answers,
Your Honor. First, this Court has on two
occasions considered and rejected the notion that the
mere fact that alcohol dissipates over time is itself
sufficient to proceed without a warrant.
As Justice Ginsburg pointed out, in
Schmerber, the Court's discussion of what the Court
itself called special facts would have been unnecessary
if all the Court needed to say was that this natural
dissipation of alcohol in the blood automatically would
lead to --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Shapiro, Schmerber is an
odd case because Justice Ginsburg and you are exactly right,
that they spend a lot of time talking about special
facts, and particularly so, but then you read the
opinion kind of backwards and forwards, and you can't
find the special facts.
MR. SHAPIRO: I think the special facts,
Your Honor, were the accident and the injuries at the
scene, which delayed the police for two hours before
they could even get to the hospital and initiate the
process of applying for a warrant, at a time when there
were no cell phones, there were no faxes, there were no
internets, and all warrant applications had to be
presented in person. That's a very, very different
situation.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if they had sent more
police officers to the scene, they could have done
everything faster.
MR. SHAPIRO: Excuse me?
JUSTICE ALITO: If they had sent more police
officers to the scene of the accident, if they -- then
they could have done it faster.
MR. SHAPIRO: Perhaps.
JUSTICE ALITO: So what's the difference
between that practical limitation and the limitation
that exists in a world -- in a rural jurisdiction?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, I think that practical
limitation, whether or not there were other officers on
the scene, right, or that could have been sent to the
scene, we're not asking for a rule in which this Court
would direct police officers how they -- they ought to
deploy their resources. If there are multiple police
officers on the scene, I don't think it's unreasonable
to say one can attend to the accident and the other one
can search -- can search for a warrant, and that becomes
part of the totality of the circumstances. But
Schmerber is not the only case, Your Honor.
In -- in Welsh v. Wisconsin, the Court
expressly said that the mere dissipation of alcohol in
the blood was not sufficient to justify a warrantless
entry into a defendant's home in order to arrest the
defendant on DWI charges. It's explicit holding, it's
not simply an inference that one has to draw from
Schmerber.
The second thing I would say in response to
your question, Justice Sotomayor, is -- is -- is
biology. And that it is true that alcohol dissipates
over time through natural body processes. But that's
only after the blood alcohol level has reached its peak,
and that is generally about half an hour after somebody
has had his last drink. So there is a period of time in
which the blood -- the body is continuing to absorb
alcohol and then -- and the blood alcohol level is
continuing to rise. Only at peak does it then start to
dissipate.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm sorry,
what's the relevance of that?
MR. SHAPIRO: The relevance of that is that
it is not true that in every -- it won't be true in
every case, Mr. Chief Justice, that the State is losing
evidence with each passing moment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it depends upon
when the last -- if a person left the restaurant right
after they had a nightcap and then left, but if they
just had drinks before, I mean, the problem seems to be
there in either case.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't know when
the person's last drink was.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, you may or may not know,
depending upon what the -- the person is willing to tell
you. All I'm saying is that in every case, in every
case, it's not the situation that from the moment you
stop the driver, his blood alcohol level is going down.
There will be some cases where it is going up.
JUSTICE BREYER: I am probably just -- but a
policeman has probable cause to believe that somebody
inside the house has drugs. He hears the toilet
flushing and he thinks they're flushing the drugs down
the drain.
MR. SHAPIRO: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: He doesn't have to get a
warrant as long as he reasonably believes that the
evidence is disappearing. All right. Now, the
difference between your case here and that is
specifically what? Suppose we were just to refer to
those cases --
MR. SHAPIRO: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and say it's the same
thing.
MR. SHAPIRO: Because the process is a very
different process. In the typical drug case, which is
what this Court has considered when it has examined the
question of whether the destruction of evidence
qualifies as an exigent circumstance, that question has
almost always arisen in what I'll call a typical drug
case, Richards v. Wisconsin, Kentucky v. King. And in
those situations, what the Court is worried about is
that the suspect inside the house is going to flush the
drugs down the toilet.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What you're saying is if
it's now or never --
MR. SHAPIRO: It is now or --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- where the other is a
slow process.
MR. SHAPIRO: It is now or never and not
only is it now or never, that -- but in most of those
cases, probably not all, but in most of the cases, the
State's case is going to disappear down the drain along
with the drugs and the ability to destroy the drugs lies
entirely within the control of the defendant. The
defendant gets to decide whether he's going to put the
drugs down the toilet or not and when he does, the
destruction is immediate and total.
In this situation, the process is gradual.
It takes hours. It can take hours, depending upon how
much alcohol is -- is in the system and it is outside
the control of the suspect. There is nothing that the
suspect can do to expedite the process of the
destruction of evidence.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, we -- we know the
defense attorneys love it when there's a delay because
then the retrograde analysis has more and more
contingencies that make it unreliable.
MR. SHAPIRO: That may be -- that may --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, you'd much rather
examine the State's expert if the sample was taken three
hours than if it were -- after the arrest than one. I
mean, that's a given.
MR. SHAPIRO: There is -- there is -- there
is no doubt, Justice Kennedy, first of all, the
retrograde extrapolation evidence, which is now being
considered in various courts around the country is
controversial. It's subject to cross-examination. You
know -- the -- we haven't resolved whether -- whether
the state of that -- the state of that -- the state of
that evidence yet. But having said that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought -- I thought you
would also distinguish the drug flush cases on -- on the
ground that violation of the integrity of your home is
somewhat less than violation of the integrity of your
body.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, I think that that is
certainly -- that is certainly true -- that is certainly
true as well, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that goes into the
reasonableness determination.
MR. SHAPIRO: Right. And there -- and there
is no doubt, I will not deny, the State's case will be
easier if it does not have to obtain a warrant, but this
case -- Court has recognized that many times in the
past. Criminal investigations are always easier if the
State does not have to comply with the warrant process.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Shapiro, before your
time runs out, the case of the fingernail --
MR. SHAPIRO: Mm-hmm.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- scrapings has been
raised as saying well, that's -- somebody is going to
scrape your fingernails, that's as intrusive as a blood
test.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, I would say three
things, Your Honor. I don't think it is as intrusive,
although even in Cupp v. Murphy, which is that case, the
Court described it as a serious, but brief intrusion on
the cherished value of personal security. The Court
recognized that even the -- the fingernail scrape was --
was a serious Fourth Amendment issue.
Secondly, that evidence, unlike the blood
alcohol evidence, was under the control of the defendant
and in that case, on the facts of that case, much like
many of the Court's other exigent circumstances cases,
there was evidence that suggests that the defendant was
actively engaged in the process of degrading the
evidence at the time that the police stepped in and said
we're going to preserve what is left rather than allow
you to be the agent of your own destruction.
And as the Court said in Kentucky v. King,
it is a very different situation when you have the
defendant himself destroying evidence. Under those
circumstances, it may be reasonable for the Court to say
you can't simultaneously destroy evidence and then
protest that the destruction of the evidence -- evidence
has created the exigency that requires the State to act
without a warrant. But there is no agency in this case
on behalf of the defendant. The defendant has no
capacity.
And I come back to what I said before. It
is true, I think this question came -- came up earlier,
when Mr. Koester was being -- was being questioned.
Fourth Amendment standards are not determined by State
law. The Court has said that in Virginia v. Moore. We
all understand that. But in the determination of what
is reasonable under the Fourth Amendment, this Court has
often looked to State practices in response to
Justice Kennedy's question.
In Tennessee v. Garner, you have the Court
say half the States have abrogated the Common Law Rule
that would have allowed the police to shoot any felon --
fleeing felon. In Richards v. Wisconsin, you have half
the States that did not support an exception to the No Knock
Rule. Here we have half the States in the country that
would not have permitted what went on in this case.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Koester, you have -- we'll give you
three minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN N. KOESTER, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KOESTER: Thank you. Everyone agrees
that the closer a chemical test is taken to the time of
driving, the more reliable the evidence of intoxication
is, the more reliable the evidence of impairment is.
So under the Respondent's approach, it would
be mandated that we're going to allow the most reliable
evidence to dissipate and degrade over a period of time
in favor of admittedly less reliable evidence taken at a
later time. And I -- that's -- that's simply
inconsistent with -- with Fourth Amendment jurisprudence
and -- and other destruction of evidence cases. I
believe the Respondent's proposed rule here is
completely impractical and unworkable.
If there are no further questions, I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:15 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
57:20 24:22 25:4 33:7 26:9,9 33:3 34:20 asking 19:2 34:24 bet 27:23 36:6 42:11
42:20 46:14 agrees 61:19 52:14,16,18,24 Assistant 1:15,17 45:16,24 46:21
50:17 ahead 30:12 answers 18:9 26:2 Association 9:24 beyond 41:22
alcohol 3:13 5:9 anyway 8:9 attorney 1:16 13:9 biology 55:7
46:18 48:18,24 32:4 37:6 avoid 11:5 15:24 17:19 22:6
15:2 55:7,9,13,13 56:9 applications 42:14 a.m 1:13 3:2 62:10 27:11,15 28:7,14
44:7 47:10,11 back 4:2 13:1 29:3,4 38:6 39:10,24
54:6,19
42:10 43:17 applying 25:2 53:21 52:1 60:22 44:3,19 45:11,23
54:1,5,9 apprehended 38:11 backwards 20:10 46:11,18 48:17,18
approaching 49:15 bad 17:9 42:4 49:2,11 50:4 53:9
8:23 9:11 10:7 arguing 34:8 basically 28:3 52:8 body 6:3,6 10:22
20:9 36:23 argument 1:12 2:2,5 basis 7:8 23:21 49:2 55:8,12
37:12 39:1 2:9,12 3:3,7 15:18 bear 8:14 9:10 36:13 59:2
49:1,5 50:12 32:21 34:19 41:4 bearing 10:1 boils 34:2
60:2,25 61:3 43:9,25 51:6 52:5 bears 39:25 boxes 37:8,9 52:19
61:17 beat 13:7 52:21
48:2,5
arisen 57:6 2:11,14 3:8 15:19 29:24 30:2 35:22
48:19 37:3 39:3 40:6 belief 9:15 breathalyzer 6:18
52:23 believe 8:16 30:1 6:20,24 7:4,7,10
43:21 58:8 arresting 6:19 benefit 36:25 30:6 33:8,13,15,17
45:11,22 40:13,15 44:9,14 checked 37:9 52:21 complicated 50:23 cop 13:7
33:6 56:8,20 57:2,7,19 chew 40:2,10 concern 29:2 correctly 22:1
34:1,17 59:9,11,15,23 60:5 Chief 3:3,10 13:20 concerned 44:21 costs 31:6
46:19,24,25 60:5,19 61:12 62:9 13:25 15:13,21 46:6 counsel 24:18 32:19
56:11,17,24 62:10 32:7,19,23 39:5,12 conclusion 13:4 61:14 62:8
18:15 20:9 22:25 52:16 55:16,20,22 conducted 48:6 44:1
44:17 46:8 48:6 clearly 6:20 contend 35:14 40:12,13 41:5,14
6:14,18 cetera 26:8 close 37:14 context 31:9 44:8 50:10 53:1,6,8
9:6 10:4,9 challenge 19:11 closer 61:20 47:8,13 54:15,23 57:3,8
13:16,18 25:12,14 29:16 come 3:16 16:15 contingencies 58:9 59:11,24,25 60:12
17:1,2,3,5,5 chance 10:4 45:21 43:24 60:22 continuing 55:12,14 60:15 61:1,3,6
21:15 22:23 chances 25:9 comes 25:15 control 41:22 57:21 courts 13:3 58:18
24:6,21 change 6:9,11,12 Common 61:7 58:3 60:4 Court's 6:13 9:5
27:15,17,20 48:24 compelling 44:13 controversial 58:19 16:3 24:5,10 36:22
30:6 32:25 changed 16:17,20 46:17 conversation 52:1 53:6 60:6
35:1 23:1 complete 52:15 conviction 9:20 10:5 create 46:17 47:21
40:5,10,13 charges 55:2 completely 62:6 44:20 46:12,18 created 60:18
23:12 16:23 23:8 25:20 diminish 23:21 11:19 24:24 33:11 50:24
delays 47:13,15 direct 54:16 44:21 element 27:19
depend 15:9 19:12 disappear 14:15 34:13 44:24 46:7,7 encountered 5:2
36:25 51:24 District 9:24 DUI 35:20 ESQ 1:15,17,21 2:3
50:13 55:2 device 50:1 doubt 39:2 58:16 etcetera 16:24,25
60:4,7,14 difference 5:7 7:3 59:9 E everybody 42:4
54:9 56:20 drain 56:15 57:19 E 2:1 3:1,1 evidence 3:13 4:23
14:11 21:16 22:20 14:12,14,14 33:24 easier 59:10,12 10:2,3,9 15:24
58:7 35:19 40:5 42:25 draws 44:3,19 46:11 easy 45:2 51:7 20:14,15 21:10
35:16 extrapolation 58:17 48:23 front 7:14 50:1,3 21:17,18 22:4,11
39:20 44:15 extrinsic 41:21 fingernail 59:15 functions 23:22 22:11 25:1,3,3,10
46:10 47:15 eyes 38:5 60:1 further 15:11 62:7 25:22,23 26:6 29:4
51:20 e-mail 51:2 fingernails 59:19 fury 35:8 30:9,9,12 34:12,13
55:21 finish 21:21 32:7 35:20,21,25 36:15
57:4 58:5,17 F first 3:4 13:10,12 G 36:19 38:4,12,13
60:3,4,7,9 face 44:5 16:5 20:2 23:14 G 1:6 3:1 43:20 51:16 52:7
facing 15:23 24:4 27:7 33:11 game 8:25 56:9,10 57:9,19,22
62:1,4 fact 4:10 8:3 10:21 46:4 47:7 50:10 game's 16:12 59:18 60:10 61:24
41:18 44:25 36:20 40:20 43:7 floating 47:2 general 1:18 21:5,9 gotten 16:4,22
43:23 44:5 52:6 fluid 26:12 29:8 36:8 government 30:23
38:2 40:11,14 41:21 focus 40:12 52:2 getting 4:6 5:2 13:10 granted 36:10,11
61:10 53:16,17 60:5 32:11 Ginsburg 4:25 5:6 greater 10:4,4 19:10
20:9 21:15 fashion 46:15 25:6 57:11,14 59:14,17 guy 45:10
31:4 60:18 fast 17:20 forcing 6:24 Ginsburg's 18:11
43:2 57:5 fatality 41:8 52:12 42:8 half 17:23 18:17
favor 6:10,11,17 forgoing 41:6 give 11:21 13:22 31:16 32:5,16
felon 61:8,9 four 32:11 gives 10:4 24:9 happen 34:7
50:1,2 implied 22:16 instant 51:8 judges 13:21 16:21 25:1,3 26:24 27:6
33:10,17,20 22:24 23:2 34:23 insulates 19:10 34:11 36:13 35:15,17,18,22
36:4,8,23 40:12 49:3,4,4 integrity 58:25 59:1 juries 7:4 36:1,4 39:12,13
39:8,18,23 impractical 4:1 62:6 interest 30:23 jurisdiction 11:8 40:1 41:8,8,14
41:19 42:7,19 improve 16:12 interfered 40:25 15:1,1 16:7,7 43:18,25 45:2
43:7 46:4 incant 41:4 47:15 19:13,14,22 21:11 46:25 48:13 49:14
50:8 51:19 incentive 19:7,9 internets 53:23 21:11 42:1,16 46:5 50:14 52:6 56:3,5
54:22 59:5 45:6 intoxication 61:21 54:11 58:6,20
Incidentally 31:22 intrinsic 47:14,15 jurisdictions 6:6 knowing 22:12
17:25 23:9 inconsistent 62:3 intrusion 6:5 59:24 jurisprudence 36:23 Koester 1:15 2:3,13
24:17,25 incorrect 21:2 intrusive 6:3,13 62:3 3:6,7,9,19,22 4:2,9
26:6 27:5 incredibly 3:14 37:2 39:23,24 justify 41:13 42:17 4:16,20 5:5,14,23
28:5 29:1 independent 12:21 52:22 59:19,22 54:25 6:15 7:1,6,21 8:10
53:20 28:13 36:19 intrusiveness 31:8 8:16 9:4,17,23
55:10 indicates 18:11 28:24 Kagan 10:25 14:10 12:7,15,24 13:6,14
31:17,24 40:24 24:17 27:4 30:14 31:4 43:8,15 14:21,24 15:6,16
32:3,5,5,16 indisputable 10:21 investigations 59:12 43:16,23 53:11 60:24 61:15,17,19
45:9 53:19 individual 8:18 invited 27:18 Kennedy 7:18,21
33:23 50:3 iPad 16:20 8:3,17,21 9:19 L
individual's 50:5 issue 4:12 7:23 9:10 21:1,6,19 26:14 laptop 51:1
infection 27:19 Kennedy's 44:16 44:12 49:23 61:1,7
51:12,15 initial 27:3 3:7 61:17 killing 34:14 led 16:3
M mere 53:3 54:24 40:7 O
56:9 48:22 message 19:18 necessity 28:3 objection 21:24
37:10,18,18 38:7 mind 6:4 34:2 40:15 31:10 37:21 38:15 obtain 11:9,13 12:9
23:18 35:23 42:22 43:5,6 45:2 15:24 22:5 39:9,10 43:10 46:13,14,14 50:17
38:13,24 45:6,9 51:24 minutes 4:21 8:7,8 48:20,21 49:16 59:10
magistrates 34:11 11:4,10 12:14,23 50:5,9 obtained 19:25 33:5
15:15 29:12 making 3:21 19:1 4:4 8:1 11:2 13:17 52:22 odd 47:21 51:4,5
48:22 30:18 51:5 52:20 13:18 20:4 24:18 needs 26:22 30:5 53:12
17:6,7,9 29:8 51:2 62:11 mistaken 9:15 13:7 20:8 21:10,11 7:13 10:11 11:17
31:20 36:14 mattered 23:13 Mm-hmm 59:16 40:23 44:9 57:12 11:23 16:20 19:1,4
42:1 51:8 matters 21:4,8 modernize 42:21 57:16,17 20:12 22:16 26:3
22:23 moment 55:21 56:8 nevertheless 22:8 26:13 28:14 31:19
23:19 24:13 mean 11:16 16:10 morning 3:4 19:16 new 1:21,21 10:6 officers 15:25 22:2
45:15 51:23 16:15 18:14 20:1 19:16 42:3 42:5 27:11 28:2,6,25
45:13 51:13 31:15 34:1 35:8 multiple 18:9 52:25 NICOLE 1:17 2:6 officer's 48:11
22:4 30:9 N 33:24
ones 19:20 30:24
N 1:15 2:1,1,3,13 nose 35:24 38:23 operate 42:5
44:22 53:13 national 8:24 9:24 number 3:4 8:12,13 45:16 53:15
46:11 natural 53:8 55:8 46:13,15 47:2 opposed 7:4,23
32:21 50:24 10:11 14:22 15:9 pretty 10:2 45:7 prosecuting 1:15
55:1 61:12 17:15 18:5 19:1 pre-prepared 51:2 prosecution 10:8
54:16 20:13 23:8 24:16 22:2,16 26:11,12 print 6:12,13 prosecutor 13:11,13
personal 27:19 54:16,17 60:9 61:8 10:14,17,18,20,21 prosecutor's 13:10
44:4 61:18 position 39:9,13,14 31:1 45:25 46:8 public 30:17 31:1
pick 16:2 11:3 15:8 32:13,15 9:2 11:1 26:19,25 put 6:12 7:14 24:24
11:7 19:13 pie 51:7 possibly 34:14 proceed 15:25 17:25 38:23 52:4 57:22
piece 32:9 35:25 18:11 30:13 53:4 putting 37:2 39:2
53:14 place 11:2 16:8 practical 7:1,8,16 proceeding 26:3
22:9 27:6 32:24 15:10 61:4 processes 55:8 38:21 41:17,20
41:11 point 7:24 9:13 11:9 prepare 26:4,15 produce 24:24 39:19 42:11 43:8 44:16
24:13 25:15,19 presented 52:2 prohibit 44:19 46:10 52:15,25 55:6 57:4
19:2 31:14 receiving 42:13 reserved 27:13 13:20 15:13 32:7 Sampson 9:5
43:11 62:7 recognize 51:20 resolve 30:5 32:19 39:5,12 49:8 satisfy 44:10
30:10 49:6 59:11 60:1 resources 54:17 55:16,22 56:3 saying 10:12 11:4
33:5 recognizes 46:7 respect 11:12 17:14 61:14 62:8 11:16 17:22 18:22
33:11 44:17 34:10 rouse 42:2 41:14 52:8 56:7
refer 56:21 22:5 32:22 routinely 11:9 38:12 45:22
relevant 7:19 restrained 33:25 20:3 44:24 scene 19:1 23:24
34:6,12 35:9 remember 34:24 retrograde 58:8,17 S 27:14 30:7 31:8
41:13 46:4 reply 7:24 reverse 8:1 34:24 S 2:1 3:1 41:20 47:8 50:11
representative review 37:1 safeguards 36:24 53:6,11 54:22 55:4
52:11 requests 36:10 right 5:13,20 10:19 Saharsky 1:17 2:6 scrapings 59:17
15:5,9,25 38:22 14:18 16:12 17:12 16:19 17:4,10,13 search 5:25 11:9,13
21:18 30:8 required 32:12 17:13 18:14,22 17:21 18:2,14,22 12:5,9,15,25 13:8
40:6,7 44:14 33:23 40:18 44:9 20:22 24:8 34:16 20:1,22,25 21:4,8 14:1,17 15:7,9
61:3 requirement 8:4 34:21 37:9 41:19 21:25 22:21 23:11 19:5,10,19,24
7:19 8:15,23 39:3,15,22 44:12 53:12 54:14 55:23 25:8 26:1,18 27:12 48:3,3,6,8,14
30:22 40:1 47:10,14,19 50:19 56:16,19,23 59:8 27:25 28:16 29:8 49:16 50:6,9,9,16
59:7 52:6 ring 19:17 30:20 31:7 32:2,9 50:19 54:20,20
56:18 require-a-warrant risk 27:19,22 47:20 43:7 second 11:22 20:6
50:13 roadside 25:21 58:12 34:11 43:7,23
51:23 52:16 58:15 59:3,8,14,16 45:9 49:13 55:10 51:22 52:19 study 9:24,25 32:10
59:21 56:12 59:18 standards 8:24 32:17
47:3 shoved 6:25 someone's 6:3 started 45:19 submitting 51:14
shows 9:25 37:20 sort 6:12 7:13 19:17 32:25 37:1,5 39:21 substantially 29:11
side 30:23 34:15 sorts 35:19 49:15 55:20 58:21 54:25
significant 5:10 8:12 3:23 4:5,14,17 60:18,25 61:4 suggest 14:10,17,18
36:18 45:14 signifying 35:8 14:22 15:2 22:7 8:12,25 9:1,8,20 21:22 43:18
simultaneously 18:6 Sotomayor's 52:24 44:1,1,18,22 45:1 suggests 60:7
59:24 60:2 56:8 57:25 60:13 speaking 48:9 statute 44:2 9:17 10:25 13:21
33:9 slowest 47:23 40:15 stick 25:4 33:1 34:25 40:18 48:4,8
34:16,20 slurred 38:5 specifically 56:21 sticking 25:20 40:6 Supreme 1:1,12 8:1
37:13 small 6:7 19:20 speech 38:5 sticks 29:12 sure 20:14 22:3
39:7,17 smelled 35:22 36:16 speed 38:4 stop 19:2,18 27:3 27:25 28:10 41:12
41:2,18 sobriety 19:3 27:4 spend 34:18 51:13 31:24 56:9 47:6 52:4,17,20
43:4,8 38:2,8,11,17,19 51:15 53:13 stopped 28:13 38:3 surely 10:17 50:5
46:3,23 48:12 staff 32:14 stops 23:21 susceptible 29:15
48:5,25 49:18 Solicitor 1:17 49:9 stamp 14:2 straight 35:23 36:17 suspect 18:24 31:11
50:7 51:18 solution 45:23,24,24 stand 38:24 38:13,24 57:9 58:3,4
52:14,18 46:21,22 47:4 standard 8:24 21:20 strengthen 10:7 suspected 38:12
54:4,8,12 somebody 11:18,23 25:11 38:17 44:10 strict 44:23 suspended 10:8
56:2,5,16,23 16:15 19:18 25:21 47:12 strive 5:16,19 15:7 suspicion 33:2
58:10 38:23 39:18 42:5 standardized 37:16 strong 19:9 31:12 suspicion-less 9:7
35:23 38:2,6,9,11 49:1,3,7,12 50:7,7 trained 12:20 28:2 understanding
39:11,14 50:8 51:18 52:3,25 training 28:9,20 21:25
7:9 59:20 61:20 thinks 56:14 tried 32:12,14 unjustified 27:18
9:21 11:21 testified 3:20 thought 8:23 13:22 trigger 39:21 unnecessary 53:7
testifies 40:17,22 20:17,17 32:8 33:6 triggers 39:1,3 unreasonable 51:17
21:9 25:5,9 testify 4:18 58:23,23 trooper 40:16 51:19 54:18
26:24,25 testimony 4:7 22:15 three 46:15 58:12 troubled 41:3 unreceptive 42:13
29:5 30:2,3 testing 49:22 59:21 61:16 true 4:16 14:6 16:5 unreliable 58:9
41:10 tests 6:7,8 7:6 three-fourths 18:17 16:14 28:1,10 36:7 unworkable 62:6
43:18,20 texting 26:7 time 4:7,13,15,22 48:1 55:7,19,19 urging 7:25 35:4
49:2 Thank 3:9 15:16 13:5 15:12,14 16:8 59:4,5 60:23 urine 49:10,16
51:8 58:1 32:18,19 61:13,14 16:24 17:18 20:7 try 12:21 17:22 use 6:6,8,13 21:17
27:3 48:17 theory 41:13 22:9 23:9,23 25:23 turn 35:23 usually 8:7 11:18
61:20 62:1 thing 20:13 22:14 25:24 27:2,3,5 turned 36:2,3,8
34:2 35:21 36:16 34:18 42:2,6 45:20 twice 33:15,19 v 1:5 3:5 8:17 9:5
52:11 56:25 53:13,21 55:8,11 23:10,12 26:1 26:23 50:12 54:23
50:15,16 16:17 20:13 46:4 61:25 62:2 32:3,5,16 34:21 61:1,6,9
49:12 51:16 59:22 timely 37:22 46:15 35:17 39:4 40:11 value 51:23,24
50:24 11:11,13 12:2,7 11:13 12:9 typically 18:25 26:2 vary 14:25 15:3,4
56:6 16:13,19 18:2,2,23 today 6:9 21:13 vast 9:8
27:12,20 28:18 total 32:3,6 57:24 uncertainty 17:17 violation 58:25 59:1
9:21 11:21 underage 30:17 W
39:4,7,17,17 touch 31:19 35:24
19:3 24:22 undermines 52:9 wagon 24:25
41:19,20 touchstone 5:23
27:4 29:7,9 understand 4:5 61:2 wait 18:17 28:18
43:4 tough 45:8
understandable waiting 11:1 19:16
44:6 46:9 towed 41:11
willing 25:9 45:25 10:14 1:13 3:2 90 4:21
Winston 24:14 11:15 62:10
18:9,19 26:7 57:7 61:9 14:10 16:9 25:11
29:22 30:3 wish 34:18 30:12 45:3
40:2,3,4,9 witnessing 17:15 17 40:17,22
46:20,25 19:5 1970s 13:1
wobbling 11:20 12:1
30:3 35:2 words 4:4 2003 4:3
42:17 43:3 work 8:5 2005 23:2
46:10 world 16:4,6,19 2013 1:9
54:25 54:11 24 45:9
13:1 14:1 worries 44:25 26 44:1
16:4,21 18:25 worth 34:12
21:9 31:15 wouldn't 12:10 17:8
2:4 12:14 13:22
35:13 36:2,8 25:13 30:18 50:19
31:3
44:9 46:14 write 26:20
19:15 42:2
50:24,25 written 26:15,20
12:12 18:21
wrong 8:22
44:4
28:2 40:25 40 8:24,25
50:18 45 18:13
40:17,22
25:1,2,3,3 7
50:14,15,20 70 32:3
60:10 61:24 1
1:9 44:4
