IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CHRISTINE ARMOUR, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 11-161
v. :
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, :
INDIANA, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, February 29, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:09 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MARK T. STANCIL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
Petitioners.
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MARK T. STANCIL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MARK T. STANCIL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 61
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:09 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning in Case 11-161, Armour v. City of
Indianapolis.
Mr. Stancil.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK T. STANCIL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. STANCIL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The city chose a method for abandoning its
sewer funding mechanism that left Petitioners paying 30
times more than their next-door neighbors to connect to
their neighborhood sewer project simply because
Petitioners had paid their tax bills in full.
Mere timing of payment does not render
similarly situated taxpayers into separate groups. And
that is particularly true here where the taxpayers are a
discretely defined group of homeowners sharing equally
in a common specific benefit and State law explicitly
defines them as similarly situated.
The city's principal contention is that
jettisoning the Barrett Law, the way they funded the
initial taxation, was itself an end for this
justification and itself justified the gross disparity
imposed on Petitioner -- on Petitioners. That does not.
The fact that an arbitrary classification may yield a
desirable result does not render it any less arbitrary.
The city must have a reason for drawing the distinction,
but paying one's taxes in good faith does not eliminate
a taxpayer's right to equal treatment.
Indeed, State law here makes clear that
delaying payment by choosing an installment plan does
not put a taxpayer on special footing. For example, the
Barrett Law declares that installment payments, quote,
"shall be collected in the same manner as other taxes."
And installment payments are automatically secured by a
lien against the property.
Taxpayers who select the installment plan,
which they may do for any reason or no reason
whatsoever -- and, in fact, if they make no choice, they
default into the installment plan. They are required,
if the city asks as it did here, to sign an agreement,
agreeing to pay the installments in full with interest
and not to contest the validity of the underlying
assessment.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I understand
your arguments. Your adversary raises a point that
concerns me, which is what happens to all other amnesty
programs like parking ticket amnesties? And if you take
your logic to an extreme, how about something that
doesn't involve money but immigration status amnesty,
illegal aliens who can apply for citizenship and be
forgiven their illegal entry?
Doesn't the logic of your theory basically
mean that there are no circumstances in which the
government could treat people differently?
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor, for several
reasons. For starters, this Court's equal protection
and rational basis cases in particular make clear that
context is key. So, forgiving a penalty imposed on a
speeder, for example, who has an overdue ticket or a
parking ticket is a qualitatively different judgment
than forgiving the underlying tax liability of a broad
swath of -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Every time a police
officer stops me for a traffic violation, I get angry
when he lets somebody else go. So, you're suggesting
that there is a difference between that and this case
where the government is basically saying you owe me
something and I'm going to forgive you what you owe me?
MR. STANCIL: Yes, Your Honor. The Chief
Justice's opinion in Engquist took that specific example
on, not with you in mind presumably, but took that
example on specifically, and it said: This is the kind
of action itself that is inherently a subjective
individualized determination. It's not irrational to
pull over one traffic violator and not another because
that's the nature of -- of the enforcement action. That
is qualitatively different from a tax imposed on 181
homeowners who live next door to each other, and then
12 months later saying, you know, 31 of you are going to
pay 30 times as much in reality as the other 150, even
though -
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought there were a lot
more than -- there are 20 different lots, 20
different -- there are -- I mean, when -- what's your
view of -- of how the cutoff should work? Do they have
to refund all the money, everybody who, in fact, ever
paid a Barrett Law assessment?
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor, and State law
on this is quite clear.
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't care what the State
is; I'm saying a matter of constitutional law.
MR. STANCIL: Well, constitutional law looks
to State law. That's what we took out of Allegheny
Pittsburgh and Nordlinger.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. All right. So what?
MR. STANCIL: But -- but I will back up.
I'll do it both ways, Your Honor. State law itself says
the following taxpayers are similarly situated, your
project specific to your neighborhood, because those are
the people to whom you're guaranteed -- with whom you're
guaranteed equal treatment. It isn't that you're
entitled to a certain price for a sewer connection under
this law. It's -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why can the State, when
they have, let's say, 10,000 people who have already
paid their assessments -- well, why doesn't it have to
give them back their money, on your theory? That's my
simple question.
MR. STANCIL: Because they're not similarly
situated. Because -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why aren't they?
MR. STANCIL: Because your -- the States
have flexibility to define at the outset who is
similarly situated.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Fine. They define
here who is similarly situated, and the people who
aren't are the ones who are on the installment plan.
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor, but they still
have to have a basis for saying that. They don't -
JUSTICE BREYER: They do. They do. The
reason is because they think it's unfair to give the
people -- they think it's -- they don't want to bother
collecting it from these people who haven't paid yet.
Okay? That's why. And they don't see a way, if you -
so, if we're going to free them, we don't want to go
back into history and then suddenly give back all the
people who've ever paid their assessment. I mean -- so,
we draw the line somewhere.
MR. STANCIL: Your Honor -
JUSTICE BREYER: This is where we're drawing
it. That's the State law.
MR. STANCIL: Well, that -
JUSTICE BREYER: What's wrong with that?
MR. STANCIL: That's not what this Court's
cases say. It's not the fact that you need to draw a
line somewhere. I'll take the case that Respondents
rely on heavily, FCC v. Beach -
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean -- my point, I'm not
making it clear. My point is that what's less rational
about saying, if you paid, too bad; we're having an
amnesty for the future? What's less rational about
doing that than saying some of the people who paid in
full will get their money back, and some will not?
Which is the line you want to draw.
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor. Let me -
I'll back up again. So, we do have a specific
definition of who is and who is not entitled to equal
treatment or roughly equal treatment. So -- that's
under State law. So, they've already committed to who
is and who is not similarly situated. So, all you need
to decide in this case -- and this is brought as an
as-applied challenge by -- by these homeowners -- is:
Are these people who are promised you will pay the very
same as your next-door neighbor for this pipe that
you're going to flush your toilet into -- are they
allowed to then change their mind and say actually
you're going to pay 30 times as much?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Stancil, who are
"these people"? We have the plaintiffs in this suit,
and there's a judgment -- there was a judgment in the
court of first instance and the appellate court for a
dollar amount, but we're told that there are many more
of these Barrett Law projects and that they all operate
the same way.
So, the result is a lot more money than
these plaintiffs are claiming; is that not so? If your
position on the law is right.
MR. STANCIL: If we're -- if we are correct,
the city will end up paying a little more than in our
specific case, but I'd like to explain why and how much
because it's an important distinction.
There are about 21 Barrett Law projects that
still have balances outstanding. Many of them are
almost paid off. So, it -- in -- there are only three
that have the 30-year option. The rest have the 10-year
option. Anything from 2001 prior. So, in fact, I think
I can give you specific numbers.
There are seven projects that are less
than -- that are half paid off or about less than -- or
less than half paid off. Because the equal protection
violation is only triggered by gross disparity between
equally -- similarly situated taxpayers, the city may or
may not have to refund in each project down the line.
If you're in year 9 of 10 of repayment, that's not a -
JUSTICE KAGAN: That counts as a gross
disparity?
MR. STANCIL: If you're in year 9 of 10, I
don't think that counts as a gross disparity.
JUSTICE KAGAN: What does, is my question.
How -- how do you separate a gross disparity from a
non-gross disparity?
MR. STANCIL: Well, start with this case,
which is easy. It's 10 to 1 and 30 to 1. It's the same
number as in Allegheny Pittsburgh. But even if you drew
4 to 1 or 5 to 1 as a line, as the Court has done, say,
in punitive damages cases where it suggested outer
limits, that -- I think those are easy lines to draw and
certainly lines that the lower courts could draw.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If -- if you win, does -
does the city just have to give you enough to bring it
down to 5 to 1 so that it's no longer a gross disparity?
MR. STANCIL: I don't think so, Your Honor.
I think triggering -- the gross disparity triggers the
violation. And the question is, well, what's the remedy
for a violation? I think they'd have to have a reason
for saying we're going to -- it would be the very
definition of arbitrary to say, well, even though you're
entitled to equal treatment as a matter of law, you
know, and even though we're not -- it's not -- liability
isn't triggered except for gross disparities, I think
they would have to give us that -- that figure.
And, Your Honor, if I could, I'd like to get
back, Justice Ginsburg, to your question about how these
other projects -- there's a suggestion by Respondents
that there's a terrible line-drawing problem in how do
we calculate these benefits. It's simply not the case.
We have this Federal class action in the Cox case, which
is every other Barrett Law project that's active except
ours. We opted out.
The damages question was before that court,
because -- because the court ruled in favor of the
position that this is an equal protection violation.
The city put together a damages pleading, and it -- and
it produced to the dollar a calculation of every
overpayment in every Barrett Law project.
JUSTICE BREYER: But that isn't the
administrative -- the administrative -- well, maybe
that's one of them. The administrative problem is, I
thought, the following: Imagine that you are the city
mayor. All right? And suppose the mayor does what you
want. The mayor says I'll give all these people in
their project back their money.
The next day in my office, there show up 15
people who say: Last month, we happened to be in
project 2, and we paid all our money. Why don't you
give us back our money? You just gave it to the people
in project 1. Give it to us.
And the next day after that, there are 14
people from project 3 and from project 4. What is your
answer to those angry taxpayers who have said we don't
understand why you refunded the money from project 1 but
not for us?
What's your answer?
MR. STANCIL: Two reasons. One, you were
not promised equal treatment under State law to those
other projects; you were promised equal treatment with
the people you live next door. Two, you use a different
pipe. These pipes cost different amounts of money to
put in different places, and they're done over time.
Your Honor's hypothetical -- actually, if I
could tweak it a little bit, it -- the question is not
who comes in for somebody -- who comes in from a project
last month. The only question is who comes in from a
project 11 or more years ago, because those are the only
ones that'll still be in repayment.
The Cox -- if we win -- well, there's a
repayment plan. That's the only thing that creates
this -- this asymmetry. The only people who are going
to come in and say, well, you refunded some people on my
project but not me are people in repayment. So, it's
only going to be from a project '95 -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You see, the problem
that I have is that you're trying to lop off half of the
project, which is what was the Barrett project, without
looking at what the new project is. And that goes to
what Justice Breyer's point was. Moving forward, every
old project and every new project is going to pay more
money than they did under the Barrett Law because I
think, if I understand correctly, the city is raising
a -- essentially not a flat fee, but a fee, assessing a
flat fee across all taxpayers so that these sewer lines
can be built.
Am I correct about that?
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor. For future
sewer projects that they start, each person who connects
to that new pipe pays a $2,500 flat fee. Every resident
citywide who uses the municipal sewer -- new, old, or
whatever -- pays an extra about $10 a month under the
new system. So, what they did is they decided this
program, the Barrett Law, is politically very unpopular;
we would like to get rid of it. Fair enough. But they
chose a way to do it. They said well, we're going to be
completely ignorant of -- of the effects.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it -- but it says
that new people are going to pay a flat fee. Old people
are going to pay $10 more a month that they didn't have
to pay.
MR. STANCIL: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so, why can't they
come in, and why don't they come in, and say exactly
what Justice Breyer said: You forgave the payments of
taxes for hooking up to the sewer system of these new
people coming in. You're treating me differently.
MR. STANCIL: There's -- there's nobody who
will pay more under the new system than my clients
because the new people pay $2,500 and the same monthly
fees that now every Indiana resident pays.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, so, everybody else
says I want to pay $2,500. You're still not dealing
with the fact that this was one decision tied to others.
It was a package deal and -- so that the rationality of
this package deal has to be seen in context. You want
to lop it off and say all I'm looking at is how much
these taxpayers paid for this old system, not what the
new system is creating.
MR. STANCIL: But that's because, under this
Court's equal protection cases, they have to have a
reason for this particular line. They can't say we have
a general objective, and it doesn't matter if we pursue
it -
JUSTICE BREYER: I might have missed a fact,
which -- which I'd like to know. Let's call your
project, project 1, all right? And all the others are 2
through 20. Are there any people in projects 2 through
20 who still have money outstanding, or are they all
paid off?
MR. STANCIL: Yes. They have -- they're in
various states of repayment.
JUSTICE BREYER: They're in various states.
Okay. What happened to the taxpayers who still owe
money in projects 2 through 20?
MR. STANCIL: They all got refund -- or
their balances were completely forgiven.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, it's the same.
So, now the people for the angry taxpayers in projects 2
through 20 show up at the mayor and say, Mayor, you're
not only -- you only -- you're not only -- under your
system, you not only gave the all-paid-up people back,
if you win, but you also forgave the future people in 2
through 20, and you're not giving us our money back.
MR. STANCIL: Let me make clear, 2 through
20 are -
JUSTICE BREYER: Am I right on the facts?
MR. STANCIL: I'm not sure. I want to make
sure I understand that -- that fact. Two through 20 are
actually older projects -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Older projects.
MR. STANCIL: Okay. So, they owe less
money, and they come into the mayor and they say:
Where's my money? I paid in full. I paid my -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Right.
MR. STANCIL: -- 9,000, but Joe over here
got his last $1,000 forgiven.
Here's what the mayor says -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. STANCIL: The mayor says: I talked to
my lawyers. If it's a grossly disproportionate
burden -- so, if you end up paying grossly
disproportionately to your next-door neighbor, because
that's what Allegheny Pittsburgh and Nordlinger and all
the Court's cases say, then I'm entitled -- I have to
give you a refund. But, if you end up paying 10 percent
more than the other person to connect to this pipe,
that's just not an equal protection problem.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, I see the -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Stancil -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think -- I think that
Justice Breyer is suggesting that if you treat
unconstitutionally a whole lot of people, you can get
away with it.
(Laughter.)
MR. STANCIL: Well -
JUSTICE BREYER: Oddly enough, I was not
suggesting that.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, some -
some time ago, I thought you were just about to tell us
how much money the city says will be at stake if you
prevail.
MR. STANCIL: In my case, there's
$273,391.63. In the Cox case, $2,783,702.59, on the
assumption that all of those people are grossly
disproportionately burdened.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the -- the city
says that's the total amount that's at issue if you
prevail, if the taxpayers prevail on this claim.
MR. STANCIL: That's -- that's what they
said in Cox. Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could the city cure the
problem by rescinding the forgiveness for those who paid
under the installment plan -
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why not?
MR. STANCIL: This was specifically
addressed in Allegheny Pittsburgh. That's exactly what
the West Virginia Supreme Court said. They said, well,
if you have any remedy, it's only to raise the taxes on
other people. And this Court specifically rejected
that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You wouldn't have any
incentive to bring a lawsuit if that were the remedy,
would you?
MR. STANCIL: Right. I'm already unpopular.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, effectively -
MR. STANCIL: I'm unpopular in Indianapolis
as it is.
(Laughter.)
MR. STANCIL: If I went back and just raised
everybody's taxes, I'll -- I'll never get to go.
(Laughter.)
MR. STANCIL: But, again, this -- and that's
just the practical reality.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why isn't that a choice
for the legislature? Because everybody could be treated
equally by getting their money back, or nobody gets out
from under the old system. So, why shouldn't that be -
the decision is you can't treat these two groups of
people differently. So, I think the Court has said in a
number of cases you can equalize up or down. That is a
legislative choice.
MR. STANCIL: It was a legislative choice,
Justice Ginsburg, but having now made a choice that
inflicts a constitutional violation, this Court's cases
are clear, that the correct and the default rule is
refunds, because -- for exactly the reason
Justice Scalia raised. Even if it's possible to go back
and do that, which -- it isn't always the case, but even
if it's possible, that just means the equal protection
cases and tax cases don't get brought because the most
you can hope to get is -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Stancil, if that's
right, and let's take a case which is different from the
one that -- that you're saying. Let's take a case where
there are many, many, many more open projects, involving
much, much more cost than you're saying is true here.
And the mayor looks at this and says: You know what?
Unless I can just draw the line here, I'm not going to
be able to change this financing system, either unless I
can draw the line here or unless I can say, you know,
nobody gets any money.
What's a mayor to do?
MR. STANCIL: Well, again, I agree with
Justice Scalia that making a big mess isn't a
justification for arbitrarily ending it.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but I -- I guess what
I'm asking is we have this terrible program; everybody
hates it; it's not fulfilling its intended purposes; the
mayor and everybody else wants to change it: How is the
mayor going to change this program now?
MR. STANCIL: There are two ways he could
have changed this program. One, he could have offered
us refunds. Two -
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm suggesting -
MR. STANCIL: I know -
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- that that is financially
prohibitive.
MR. STANCIL: I will pay for it then because
he can go and he could -- he could have done two things
here. They could have -- and I'm using "the mayor"
loosely; it's actually the board of public works and the
city-county council. But he could have increased that
monthly fee under the new program. There actually -
these sewer projects still cost the same.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Have we ever decided an
equal protection case on the basis that the -- the State
who had violated the -- the Constitution can't afford to
pay for it? Is there any case that supports that?
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's just too expensive?
MR. STANCIL: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And, therefore, we have to
deny equal protection?
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor. And I -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, isn't that what you're
saying, Mr. Stancil? Is what you're saying that when
cities create tax policy, they can't think about the
budget implications of that tax policy?
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor. What I'm
saying is when they want to change tax policy, having
already said these taxpayers are the same and entitled
under law to equal treatment, they can't just say, well,
it would be too expensive on us to treat them equally
when unwinding that program. This Court in Plyler has
said resources are not sufficient.
And any tax case could be justified. If
the -- if the city says, well, you know, we want to
have -- we want to refund X dollars to our taxpayers,
but we only have enough to refund to the blonde people
and not to brunettes, that's arbitrary, even if they
couldn't afford to do it other ways -- another way.
So, they can't just pick a method that sort
of where the math works out or is convenient, and just
say, well, that's the way we could have done it.
I would, if I could, just return to the
practical ways they could have done this, And I think
that highlights just how arbitrary this line was. They
could have increased those monthly fees under STEP, the
new program. I mean, that's how they paid for the rest
of these projects. They're paying off the bonds of the
old projects by charging everybody in Indianapolis $10
more a month.
They could have just collected -- in our
project, they could have collected for 2 more years.
They could have said you'll be forgiven -- I think it's
about 27 months. You will -- we're going to forgive
your balances as of, you know, whatever that would be --
June of 2010, whatever it would be, 2007 -- collected
that money, and then they would have had the cash to
refund to the people who had paid in an equal amount
that they were forgiving to the others. So, I think --
I think that's sort of -- it's a red herring to say,
gosh, we had no other way, or we only had these options
A, B, and C.
I'd like to -- I really want just to drill
down on the illustration of just how crazy I think this
is. Suppose that the United States decides tomorrow to
go to a national sales tax instead of the Federal income
tax. It's February 29th; millions of people have paid
their taxes for 2011; many, many -- most of us have not
yet paid. Could the IRS come in and say: Well, if
you've already filed and paid your taxes for 2011, too
bad. But lucky you, if you're a late filer; you're
going to get your entire tax bill forgiven.
I don't think that's remotely close. I
think that is arbitrary, and I'll give you a couple of
reasons. One, absolutely no notice. So, the timing of
payment, the method of payment that was selected, gives
those taxpayers absolutely no notice as to some
constitutional significance that attaches to it.
And I don't think -- and I can tell you from
talking to my clients, they don't -- they didn't think
that by paying up front in full that they had -- they
were somehow sacrificing their chance to equal treatment
or that the city might some day wipe out 97 percent of
their neighbors' tax obligations.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That is the parking
amnesty example that you have said wasn't the same.
Because if an individual taxpayer has filed late, it's
like the parking guy who didn't file his ticket, either.
MR. STANCIL: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you really are
saying that amnesty programs are out of the question if
the risk is imposed equally on everyone.
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor. In the
parking ticket example, forgiving a penalty for late
payment is a qualitatively different -- to borrow from
Engquist again, a subjectively individualized
determination designed to achieve another goal, a
legitimate goal in itself. Pay your parking ticket, and
we'll let the penalty go. That is different.
So, if my clients were here saying, well,
you're not charging me -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, but you're saying if
you forgive the parking ticket, that's an equal
protection violation.
MR. STANCIL: No, Your -- I mean, I would
not, Your Honor. Again, it's context-driven. The
parking -
JUSTICE BREYER: The goal here is very
simple. They say we have hundreds or dozens or 20
different programs anyway, and once we start getting
into the business of distinguishing among people who are
already paid up, it's going to be a nightmare. And so,
the only clear line we draw is between the people who
are already paid up and the people who haven't paid.
And we don't want those people who haven't paid to have
to pay because that's going to be another 20 years of
administrating $33 a month.
Okay. That's their rationale. Now, that
may not be perfect, but it sounds reasonable, doesn't
it? What's wrong with it?
MR. STANCIL: It's not, Your Honor. And
I'll say it rests on the faulty -
JUSTICE BREYER: It's not their rationale,
or it's not perfect?
MR. STANCIL: It's not reasonable, Your
Honor. It rests on the faulty premise that this is some
administratively -
JUSTICE BREYER: It's not impossible. They
don't say it's impossible. Say, try looking through the
U.S. tax code. It has thousands of pages. There is not
one human being alive who understands every provision.
All we have to do is start comparing the provision on
page 1 with page 3 with page 7 and page 9, and we will
discover irrationality forever.
So, I don't -- I mean, you may have this
fairly simple case, but I foresee, if you win, the -
don't ask me what will happen, but I have a suspicion
it's not going to be too good.
MR. STANCIL: Your Honor, I mean -- there's
one -- there's somebody not here in this case that I
think belies this notion -
JUSTICE BREYER: What?
MR. STANCIL: -- that this is going against
the tax code broadly or amnesty programs or forgiveness
decisions generally. If -- if -- I think if people
really thought that this case was going to foul up the
tax code or forgiveness, I think the IRS would be here
or the United States would be here saying this is very
similar to what we do on a daily basis in compromising
debt on an individual basis.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there an easier
thing to administer than the system that was struck down
in Allegheny Pittsburgh?
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Whatever you paid,
that's what your assessment was. And they argued, well,
this is easy; that's enough. And this Court said, no,
it's an equal protection violation.
MR. STANCIL: Correct, Your Honor, and,
again, the administrative burden there was actually
quite significant.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't believe in the
administrative nightmare exception to the Equal
Protection Clause?
(Laughter.)
MR. STANCIL: Not when it takes only three
pages and -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me -- I'm
curious to know, if other States have provisions like
the Barrett Law and they're concerned about this, can
they provide in the initial documents a -- a promise
that there will be no forgiveness, so that there would
be a contract clause sort of argument against what
happened here? In other words -- and if we could
explore that for just a minute, I'm going to ask what it
is that you thought constituted a promise in this case.
MR. STANCIL: Well, there are four -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And maybe not a promise in
the contract sense.
MR. STANCIL: Yes. Four separate provisions
of the Barrett Law -- just -- I'll rattle them off for
you. First, it says installment payments shall be
collected in the same manner as other taxes. It
actually says "shall collect" two other times. Requires
a lien. It says that municipal officials who don't
collect installment payments can actually be held
personally liable and removed from office for failing to
discharge their duties. That's on pages 2a to 3a of the
appendix to the blue brief.
So, I don't think there's any sensible way
to read the Barrett Law as saying it doesn't require
payment. And none of the State court judges who've
looked at this have suggested that. And -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: On the other aspect of my
case, do you think other States could provide protection
against this, in the event you do not prevail here, and
-- and put in the documents that it is understood that a
condition for your approving of this, these sewers, will
be that there will be no forgiveness?
MR. STANCIL: I suppose they could, Your
Honor. I -- again I'd argue that -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would that then be
enforceable under the contract clause, do you think?
MR. STANCIL: I'm not sure it would be
under the contract clause. But could I flip it and
suggest that if a State wanted to preserve its right to
forgive willy-nilly, they could include a provision in
their law that says, by the way, if you choose an
installment plan and we change our policy, there shall
be -- you're not entitled to equal treatment with people
who pay up front?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Give you a warning?
MR. STANCIL: Right. And let's -- we'll see
who pays up front under that system.
(Laughter.)
MR. STANCIL: If I can, Your Honor -- if I
can, I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Stancil.
Mr. Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
In 2005, the City of -- the City of
Indianapolis decided that it wanted to abandon its
reliance on the Barrett Law, a program that had proved
unpopular for financing public improvements. In doing
so, they decided to make a clean break and forgive the
outstanding balances that were due under the Barrett Law
program. The alternative of maintaining those accounts
and maintaining the tax liens associated with those
accounts for nearly three decades was particularly
unattractive. Now, the -
JUSTICE ALITO: I think you've put your
finger on the reason for this, which is that the city
calculated that what it did would be more politically
acceptable than treating the people who paid up front
equally on an economic basis with the people who paid in
installment plans. Now, if that's the reason for this,
is that rational?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Alito, it -- it
might well be rational. I mean, sometimes things that
make policy sense that the public likes also make good
government sense. And in this context, what they wanted
to do is they wanted to get out of the Barrett Law
business. That's the exact words -
JUSTICE ALITO: But what does that mean,
they wanted to get out of the Barrett Law business?
MR. CLEMENT: Can I put it very concretely?
I mean, before this -- you know, when they used to have
the Barrett Law and used it on an ongoing basis, within
the controller's office, they had a Barrett Law office.
They wanted to get rid of the Barrett Law office.
How do you get rid of the Barrett Law
office? You get of the obligation to continue to
collect these payments for 30 years; you get rid of the
obligations to keep all these files together and see
whether you're in a position to enforce a tax lien.
JUSTICE ALITO: That really doesn't seem
very complicated, to collect payments that people have
agreed to pay. And if they didn't want to do it
anymore, I bet they could have contracted that out for a
very modest fee to any number of private entities that
would have done it for them.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Alito, of
course, they could have continued to collect. I think
that's common ground here, which I think ultimately
shows why this is a very curious equal protection
theory, because if the city would have continued to
collect these, you know, for 30 years, then they agree,
there's no Equal Protection Clause problem at all.
Now, I think as Justice Kagan was
suggesting, if you now create a rule that says when they
do forgive, they actually have to provide refunds and
face Equal Protection Clause violations, then in the
future, nobody is going to ever forgive. What they're
going to do in the future is, even though they're trying
to move away from this policy, even though they're
trying to get out of the Barrett Law business, they're
going to be stuck.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So, I think maybe if you
prevail in this opinion, we should say the principle we
are adopting in this case is: Don't trust the
government.
MR. CLEMENT: No, Justice Kennedy, I don't
think that's right. But the fact that that's your
reaction I think shows that this is not really an equal
protection claim, and it's not really like Allegheny
Pittsburgh because, as your colloquy with Mr. Stancil
suggested, they would admit that if the government said,
as part of the Barrett Law, look, you know, we reserve
the right to abandon the Barrett Law, and if we do so,
we -- you know, we may forgive installment payments -
if they said that, the equal protection claim would go
away in their view.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's simply
because, as we said in Allegheny Pittsburgh, the basis
for considering the equal protection claim is the rights
that you're given under State law. In Allegheny
Pittsburgh, it says you have the right to be treated
equally with respect to assessments. And you weren't.
Here the law says you have the right to be
treated equally, or whatever it is, the apportionment,
and they weren't. All that you're saying there is that
State law gets to set the base. And if the State law
says we don't treat people the same in extending sewer
hook-ups, then that takes away your Equal Protection
Clause. But it just sets the base.
MR. CLEMENT: Two differences,
Mr. Chief Justice. First of all, you know, there's
no -- there's no real analogue to Allegheny Pittsburgh
because Allegheny Pittsburgh is a one time in time case.
There the problem was that statute was very different.
It was facially neutral, and it was being applied in an
unequal way.
Nothing, not one word, in Allegheny
Pittsburgh suggests that if the State of West Virginia
wanted to change its policy and adopt proposition 13 as
the law of West Virginia, that it couldn't do so. And
that's the anomaly here. This equal -- this equal
treatment requirement they get, they get it from the
Barrett Law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The change in
policy -
MR. CLEMENT: That's the exact law that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The change in
policy is from treating people equally to treating
people unequally. I don't see how the fact that they're
changing that policy addresses the issue at all.
They're going from a system where everybody was subject
to the same assessment to a system where some pay
something and other people pay 30 times that. Yes, it's
a change, but it's the change that presents the problem.
MR. CLEMENT: No, I -- with respect, I think
it's the change that makes this case different from
Allegheny Pittsburgh. It's the change that makes this
government action rational.
This would be a different case if they
didn't change the Barrett Law program, and they just
stuck by it and said, you know, we're going to forgive
some people. But here they decide they're going to -
they're going to abandon the very law that imposes,
supposedly -- I want to talk about what State law really
does. But it supposedly imposes this equal protection
requirement. That's the very law they want to move away
from.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I still don't -
MR. CLEMENT: And this idea that -
JUSTICE ALITO: Other than political
expediency and administrative convenience, I still don't
understand what rational basis you claim there was for
the distinction that was drawn. Now, maybe one of those
is sufficient, but other than those two possible bases,
I don't see another one.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, you know, I count five,
Justice Alito. If you want to hear -- I mean, I'll go
through them. One is what I call making a clean break,
having not to deal with the vestiges of the old program.
You may call it political expedience. I don't think it
is. I think that's, you know, a good government
concern.
The second is avoiding the administrative
burdens of particularly the refund process. And I think
it's worth recognizing that -- you know, they say, well,
what could be simpler; just cut a check. But to whom
and for what amount? I mean, you know, if you're going
to go back to close accounts, the first thing you're
going to have to confront is what do we do with the
people that have sold their house?
Well, I mean, you know, we've got to figure
out where they are now. We've got to figure out, I
mean, do we -
JUSTICE ALITO: Those are reasons for not
giving refunds, but what are the reasons for forgiving
the debt that people agreed to?
MR. CLEMENT: Well -- okay. But, if I
could, they don't challenge the forgiveness. So, the
reason that I'm trying to explain that there are
rational bases for not giving refunds is because the
challenge that's really brought here is to Resolution
101, and it's -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you don't -- you
don't -
MR. CLEMENT: -- it's forgiveness without
refunds.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You don't dispute that the
city would have that option if we rule against you.
MR. CLEMENT: Would have the option what,
Mr. Justice Kennedy?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just not to forgive the
unpaid balances. The city has the option, I assume.
MR. CLEMENT: They certainly have the option
in the future. I think it's a dispute between the
parties whether they have the option as a part of the
remedy. I would say, not to get ahead of myself, but to
address the remedy, this is very different from
Allegheny Pittsburgh. And it has to be that one option
is to simply invalidate Resolution 101.
I'm not -- I don't -- I'm not aware of any
other area of the law where you can have a statute or an
ordinance that draws an invalid distinction, and one
remedial option is not to invalidate the statute or the
ordinance. And that's the position.
Their position is, you know, if you would
have put something in there that said we're not going to
do anything, you'd be fine. But having given
forgiveness and said we're not going to give refunds,
you're stuck not only with the forgiveness but also with
giving refunds.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's a -- that's a big
difference. In one case, there's an expectation; in the
other case, there isn't.
MR. CLEMENT: No, Mr. Justice Kennedy,
because the expectation here is at the time of
Resolution 101. At the time of Resolution 101, I think
it's common ground. The city was under no obligation to
provide forgiveness.
So, if in 101, by providing forgiveness
without refunds, they violated the Equal Protection
Clause, why isn't the logical remedy for that to simply
invalidate Resolution 101? No forgiveness; everybody
gets equal treatment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because you would -- you
would eliminate all litigation on Equal Protection
Clause grounds if all that the plaintiff is going to
achieve is not any benefit to him but harming somebody
else.
That's -- the classic case is -- is the sex
discrimination case, where a State had a drinking law
which said that -- that men could drink at the age of 18
but women at the age of 21. And what happened in the
lawsuit? Did the court say, well, I guess -- I guess
men will be able to drink at 18. No, that's -
MR. CLEMENT: No, I think what they said -
JUSTICE SCALIA: They said men would have to
drink at 18, not that women will have to wait to 21
because -
MR. CLEMENT: No, I think they said that
was, with respect -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They said it could go
either way.
MR. CLEMENT: Exactly.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was up to the Oklahoma
legislature. They could make it 21 for everyone or 18
for everyone.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the city retains
that option in this case going forward. The problem
with -
MR. CLEMENT: No, but -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- your analogy is
you're dealing with a situation -- you're saying, well,
here's a violation and the law can -- and what does the
law do? But this -- this is exactly 180 degrees away.
There's no violation, and the law creates the violation.
In that situation -
MR. CLEMENT: Right. So, then you -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- I think you're
dealing with an entirely different case.
MR. CLEMENT: If the law that created the
violation is Resolution 101, than the remedy in every
other area of constitutional law, including sex
discrimination, is clearly that the State has the
option. They can level up or they can level down. The
only case that's different is Allegheny Pittsburgh and
the assessment cases it relies on. But there's an
important difference.
JUSTICE BREYER: Then you're saying that the
difference between the two classes is that if you
continue to have the tax apply to the people who haven't
paid it yet, there is a large administrative expense.
And if you -- as an expense that does not exist in
respect to the class that has already paid it.
So, the question, I would have thought, in
our Court is whether that's a rational distinction. And
I think contrary to what was suggested, administrative
expenses, of course, make a difference where the Equal
Protection Clause is concerned because they
differentiate between the two classes. And trying to
avoid an administrative expense is a rational reason,
normally, for making the distinction.
Now, I mention that because I know -- what
-- it can -- does that bring to mind any authority which
would be helpful? Because there was a question that
there is no such authority. It makes sense to me, but
is there some authority for that?
MR. CLEMENT: Sure, there is, Your Honor. I
mean, you look to a number of places. I would look to
Carmichael v. Southern Coal where, you know, this Court
is confronting a case where the State says, you know,
we're not going to tax employers -- employers who are
smaller than eight, because, you know, the game is not
worth the candle. And in a similar way here, they say
we want to get out of the Barrett Law business. We want
to make a clean break. And they say, you know, we don't
want to keep this office in the controller's office.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But here -- here the State
has defined the class. That's the difference. I mean,
to say employers with less than eight is a separate
class, that's fine. But -- but here, the State said
we're creating this class of -- of people who have to
pay for sewer assessments, and we're going to treat them
equally. That's what the law required.
MR. CLEMENT: I would have thought, Justice
Scalia, if this was an equal protection case, not a
contracts case, not a Winstar case, not an estoppel
case, if this was an equal protection case, the relevant
time period would be the time period of the ordinance
that's challenged, Resolution 101. At that time, there
is a difference already in real-world fact between those
who've paid in full and those who have outstanding
balance, and are going to keep the city in the Barrett
Law business for three decades.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, you're saying that any
future law which -- which disregards an equal
classification that a prior law established is okay? So
long as it's a future law that does it.
MR. CLEMENT: It -
JUSTICE SCALIA: There will always be a
future law that does it.
MR. CLEMENT: No, it -- it could be. There
still has to be a rational basis for it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. CLEMENT: And -- and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what we're
questioning.
MR. CLEMENT: Right, but a rational basis is
-- boy, you know, we have two sets of accounts. Half of
these accounts are going to be a nightmare to maintain.
We have an estimate from our controller -- this is in
the Cox litigation, but it's cited in one of the amicus
briefs. We've got an estimate from our controller
that's going to cost us $200,000 to upgrade and maintain
this system. We really don't want to spend that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I think I
don't see the answer -
MR. CLEMENT: Now, is that $200,000
associated -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Excuse me. I don't
see the answer to Justice Scalia's question. You're
saying this would be a rational system going forward,
but you also promised the people that they would be
treated equally over a certain period.
When you start out it's not equal because
somebody pays $400 and somebody else pays 10,000, and -
but over the 30-year period, it's the same. That's why
it's equal in the beginning, even though somebody pays
400 and somebody pays 10,000 because they're going to
pay the same over the period.
Then you lop off the period. So, you're not
treating them equally. Go -- when you started. You can
no longer say don't worry about the inequality; it will
sort out in 30 years. Now you can't -- you have no way
of telling them why it's not unequal.
MR. CLEMENT: With all due respect,
Mr. Chief Justice, you're making this sound like it's an
estoppel case, like it's a Winstar case. It's not a
broken promise case. This is an equal protection case.
And the reason there's a rational difference at the time
Resolution 101 is, is because that point in time has
passed and they're in an different position.
But I also do want to make clear that you
will look in vain in the Barrett Law for this stern
promise that no matter what happens, we will eventually
collect the same amount from everybody. What there is,
is there is a requirement for equal assessment in the
first instance -- nobody says that was violated -- and
then, if you elect four installments, there's a
provision that says you shall collect.
The irony of their position is they say it's
perfectly okay for the city to break that promise. It's
perfectly okay to give forgiveness. They don't have a
quorum -- a quarrel with forgiveness. They want
forgiveness. They just want to get some refunds, too,
as a result.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, they want forgiveness,
but you outline correctly in your brief the fact that
the city had three options. One of the options was to
hold everybody to what they understood when they signed
up under the Barrett Law.
And I -- I do not understand how your
administrative convenience argument fits in with the
decision to forgive the debt of the people who agreed to
pay on the installment plan. When the city was
collecting those payments was that a net loss? Were the
administrative costs of making those collections more
than the amount of money that was brought in?
If not, then I don't see how administrative
convenience justifies a rejection of that option.
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Alito, as I hear you,
you've switched from rational basis to it has to be, you
know, a net -- unless we can show a net loss, we lose.
Why can't we make a rational judgment that there's a
unique $200,000 cost associated with maintaining this
program? We don't want to maintain the program. It's
tremendously politically unpopular. We've moved away
from it. We don't want to -- I mean, can you imagine
the city -
JUSTICE ALITO: It's rational for a city to
say that it costs us $100,000 to collect this money, and
if we do collect it, we're going to bring in $500,000;
so, we don't want to pay the $100,000; so, we're going
to get rid of the program? That's rational?
MR. CLEMENT: It is rational, Justice Alito,
because they have to maintain an office to do it. You
know, think about the city. Do you really think -
JUSTICE ALITO: No, but the net -- the
net -
MR. CLEMENT: Do you really think -
JUSTICE ALITO: If the net -- if it's a net
gain, what is the rationality of abandoning it?
MR. CLEMENT: Because they want to get rid
of the office; they want to get out of the business;
they want to make a clean break.
Can you imagine the city 27 years from now
trying to take somebody's home by imposing and then
trying to enforce a tax lien based on a program that
they walked away from 27 years earlier? They'd get
laughed at. They couldn't do that.
And if they could make that judgment in -
another way of thinking about it, 10 years from now,
okay, they've collected everything from the 10-year
payers. All they've got left are the 20-year payers,
the 30-year payers. They say, you know, this is
ridiculous. It's still -- we're still taking in more
money than we're -- than it would cost, but it's
ridiculous. We want to get out of this business. We've
told the people -
JUSTICE ALITO: You put your finger on it.
They want to get out of the business. What they've done
is to shift the cost of the sewers from a -- from a
small group, a small interest group that is able to
presumably exert some political power to -- to
everybody. They spread the cost around to everybody.
And everybody -- the ordinary person who has to pay a
little bit more every month doesn't get all fired up
about it.
That's what this -- that's what this is
about, isn't it?
MR. CLEMENT: No, it's not what it's about,
the way you're describing it. Maybe there's a takings
claim for somebody to bring, but it's not an equal
protection claim. What you just articulated would be
exactly the same if there were a provision in the
Barrett Law that said, by the way, if we ever get rid of
the Barrett Law, all bets are off; we might not
collect the insolvency -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there is a
provision -- you said I'd search in vain for this
provision in the Barrett Law.
MR. CLEMENT: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I went and
searched and 15 -
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- 15(b)(3)says,
"The costs shall be primarily apportioned equally among
all abutting lands or lots."
MR. CLEMENT: Yes, that's the -- I -- I -
that's the provision I already mentioned about
appraisals. That's talking about the costs -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It says "costs."
MR. CLEMENT: The costs of the project when
they are doing the appraisal. When they're coming up
with the cost for how much it's going to cost to stick
the pipes in the ground, they have a law that says it
has to be divided equally among the lots. That's an
assessment. There's a specific provision that you can
challenge the assessment if you don't like it. Once you
don't challenge it, it's final.
There's actually two provisions in the
Barrett Law that you won't search in vain for that talk
about the interest of finality, which is yet another
reason that justifies the differential treatment here
between people who have paid in full, their accounts are
closed, and people who have ongoing outstanding
balances.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where -- where do I
look to find that when they say the costs shall be
apportioned equally, they are not referring to the
costs, but they were referring to the assessments?
MR. CLEMENT: They're referring to the costs
of the project, the improvement, that will then be
reflected -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The costs of the
project are funded by the -- the sewer hook-ups, and
some people pay 400 and some people paY 10,000.
MR. CLEMENT: No, but it's the costs that
are then reflected in the assessment on each lot. And
there's then a process for challenging that assessment
on the assumption that the costs are allocated equally
to each lot, and then when that's done, the finality
provisions kick in.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that just -
MR. CLEMENT: And nobody says there was
anything wrong.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That just underscores the
promise of the State -- or the city that all owners will
be treated equally. That just underscores the point
that that was the understanding and the commitment.
MR. CLEMENT: With respect, that's not.
The original idea is, sure, you know, we're going to
assess the costs of the project equally among everybody
whose benefiting from the project. And then we're going
to have an assessment, and if the Barrett Law doesn't
change, the assumption is everybody's going to pay the
same amount.
I'm not here to tell you otherwise, but the
point is the Barrett Law, like most laws, doesn't have a
clause that plans for its own demise. It doesn't say,
well, you know, if -- if we get rid of this law, we
either will or will not enforce the installments.
And I think the question here is at a
different point in time when they've made a different
judgment -- we don't like the Barrett Law. It's proven
unpopular. It's proven unwieldy. It's not just
popularity or political. It's that, you know, they're
facing lots of low-income subdivisions with septic
tanks, and, you know, they're forcing the prospect of
trying to get people to pay $10,000 to improve a -- the
sewer on a house that's worth $50,000. They realize
that's a non-starter. We've got to get out of this
business.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You just said it's
not popularity. In page 1 of your brief, you say, "The
Barrett Law method eventually proved to be politically
unpopular." Sounds like it's popularity to me.
MR. CLEMENT: It's not just popularity. You
know, every once in a while the people have a point.
And it's not just that they don't like something; it's
their right to not like it. And they're very much right
to not like a law that says you got a $50,000 house and
we're going to make you pay for a $10,000 sewer hook-up.
They were right to get out of the business.
Having done that, I don't understand why they're saddled
with a provision of law that exists in the old law that
they're trying to get away from.
And just to be clear -- I mean, if you want
to look at a case that I think shows you why the State
law is not as equality ber alles as they're presenting,
take a look at an old Indiana case called Allendorf, 176
N.E. 240. That's a case where some people in the
project challenged the -- the assessment, said, you
know, that's unfair; it's too much. Other people paid
in full.
The people who challenged it went to court.
They eventually settled with the city for a reduced
amount. Then later on the people who had paid in full
went into court and said we're entitled to pay no more
than those guys. You know what the Indiana appellate
court said? No dice. That doesn't work. You
basically -- you either waived your right in express
waiver or if you paid in full, it's -- you know, it's
too late. It's too late.
So, the -- and this is, with respect, I
think part of the problem with the Allegheny Pittsburgh,
and particularly this extension of it. You're putting
so much weight on the State law, and it gets you in this
business of flyspecking the Barrett Law.
I mean, you know, this -- I mean, Justice
Thomas made this point very well in the Nordlinger case,
that there's an anomaly here, which is you're looking -
supposed to be looking at Federal law, and the violation
seems to be tied to potentially a violation of State
law.
If I could focus on that for a minute,
because this is another really important difference
between Allegheny Pittsburgh and this case, which speaks
right to the remedy. In Allegheny Pittsburgh, it's a
facially neutral statute. And so, it would be an
anomaly there to say that when there's a facially
neutral statute, you're going to invalidate the -- the
statute. The statute's fine. The problem is you've
been assessed at 100 percent; everybody else has been
assessed at 50 percent. The Court in that unique
context says, you know, there's no obligation to go and
sort of mandamus the assessor, to bring everybody else
up. You get to sort of go back to that level.
This is very different. The challenge here,
like in Nordlinger, is a challenge to a distinction
drawn in a law. Resolution 101, unlike the law in
Allegheny Pittsburgh, is not facially neutral. It draws
a distinction. So, the relevant question is the
rationality of that distinction. Is it rational?
We submit there are multiple reasons why it
is rational. But if you disagree with me, the obvious
remedy is to strike down the statute or at least remand
to the State court with express instructions that they
have the option, which is exactly what happened in the
sex discrimination cases.
And, Justice Scalia, if you're worried about
incentives and standing, look at Heckler v. Mathews,
another sex discrimination case. This exact issue came
up. And what the Court said is standing is based on
your right to guaranteed equal treatment. Whether or
not it's a pocketbook injury, you have standing if
you're denied equal treatment.
Now, these guys may have been denied equal
treatment on the assumption they're right. But they can
get equal treatment restored just as easily by
Resolution 101 being invalidated in full as they can by
getting an additional windfall by getting a refund. And
as Justice Alito -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, why is that -- why
is that a big deal for us? I mean, that's the law. You
get your -- your choice.
MR. CLEMENT: Okay. But, I mean, that's a
big difference because that's different from what
they're saying. They're saying there's no remedial
option. They're saying we are stuck now. We -- we have
to give refunds. That's the only permissible
constitutional remedy. And, obviously, the city would
prefer to get out of the Barrett Law business and to
provide these forgiveness, but it would certainly be a
lot better for the city if they would at least -- this
Court made clear, they have the option of leveling up or
leveling down. I do think, though, that gets to Justice
Kagan's -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that -- if I
could -- you mentioned Heckler v. Mathews. In Heckler
v. Mathews, the Court said, quote: "Ordinarily,
extension" -- of the withheld benefit -- "rather than
nullification is the proper course."
MR. CLEMENT: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, while it is true
that you can cure a violation by leveling up or leveling
down, ordinarily, extension of the benefit is the proper
course. And that's for the reason Justice Scalia gave,
because, otherwise, there would be no equal protection
case brought.
MR. CLEMENT: If that were the rule, Heckler
v. Mathews would have come out the other way. The Court
was -- you know, the Court -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what -- what
did the Court mean when they said, ordinarily, extension
is the proper course?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, they were talking about
a specific situation (a) under Federal law. So, I don't
know why the rule would be the same. And the sex
discrimination cases are much more on point for purposes
of this. But they're also talking about a very specific
context where you have a limitation on a benefit. And
the idea is, if you strike down the limitation, the
default option is everybody gets the benefit.
This is different. I mean, you know, really
what Heckler is talking about is severability concerns.
There's no severability that works here. Resolution
101 -- if you look at it, it doesn't say anything about
refunds. It simply says we're going to forgive the
balances on the outstanding accounts.
If that's somehow impermissible, then the
law goes. There's nothing to sever. There's nothing -
there's not one word in the statute about refunds. And
that's different from the context where you have a
general extension of benefits and you have some
limitations on the benefits.
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you think would
happen if the city says -- if it came out that way -- we
really want to give refunds or cut off -- we want to
stop collecting the money, period? Then to make it fair
on this hypothesis, the city would have to go back and
refund money. To whom? And how many?
MR. CLEMENT: And -- and in what amount?
JUSTICE BREYER: And you heard your -- your
friend try to make a distinction between this project,
and you wouldn't have to give the money, he said, to
every other person, whoever back in 1850 or 1890 or
whenever it was began to make Barrett Law payments. But
you would with this one.
Now, what -- I'd like a little comment on
that.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, you're absolutely right.
And, you know -- and, you know, I talked about the
question -
JUSTICE BREYER: Right, because it's a
question.
MR. CLEMENT: Well -- okay. Then the answer
is it would be an administrative nightmare. If I
understand the question -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that.
Why? I mean, people paid the lump sum.
MR. CLEMENT: With respect to -
JUSTICE SCALIA: If people come forward and
say I'm one of the ones who paid the lump sum, I want a
refund; and if somebody doesn't come and present such a
claim, the city doesn't pay. If someone does -
JUSTICE BREYER: That's right -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Surely, the city has
records.
JUSTICE BREYER: Let me try to get my
question, which is, I'm not -- I'm thinking this is
project 1. So, certainly, on the hypothesis, you have
to pay back the people who already paid up for project
1. But in your brief, you say there's project 2 through
20. And is there, in your opinion, a basis for
distinguishing all those people who have paid up in
those projects, or would you have to give them their
money back, too?
Now, you heard your friend's statement -
explanation of why you wouldn't have to give them the
money back, and I want to get your response to that.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, with respect, what I
heard him say is we probably would. And I think we
certainly would as to most of the projects. There might
be a couple of the projects where the differences are so
small that he would say there's no gross inequality
there. But as to most of the other projects, there are
still substantial differences -
JUSTICE BREYER: How many people does that
involve, about?
MR. CLEMENT: It involves -- you know, I
don't -- I know the number of projects. It's like 20
projects. So, I'm guessing it's at least 1,000 people.
And then, of course, somebody's going to come in if we
do that, as you suggested, and say wait a second -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Was his figure of
2 million accurate? As the stake -- in the other case.
MR. CLEMENT: The stakes in the other case
without interest I think are $2.7 million. So, you
know, I think the -- the ballpark figures are right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When you say "the
other case," you mean every other project? Because
that's -- that's, what, a class action; right?
MR. CLEMENT: It's -- it's a class action,
the Cox -- the Federal litigation. But still, that's
not a -- that's not an insubstantial amount.
Of course, the relevant question is not, you
know, are the damages a set figure after you've had
litigation in Federal court? The question is what is
the city administrator, at the time he's trying to
decide whether he has a refund obligation, to do?
And, Justice Scalia, you said, well, it's
clear as mud. I mean, did you listen to the answer
about gross inequality? What, are they supposed to run
it through the gross inequality calculator that tells
them, well, you know, it's close, but it's not really -
there's not a discrete obligation? I don't know how --
I would not know how to advise them as to which of the
other 21 projects they owed a refund to and which they
didn't. I would be at a complete loss.
And the reason -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if
everybody -- if everybody entitled to a refund came
forward, it would cost you $2.7 million. And it -
MR. CLEMENT: No, actually it would -- plus
this one. So, it would be a little over 3.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Three -
$3 million. And you say the real problem is the huge
administrative cost in trying to figure out who you owe
it to. If it's that huge, all they do is somebody who
comes forward, asks for a refund, verify that they're -
you know, were a homeowner on the project, give them the
refund.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I mean -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The most it's going
to cost is $3 million.
MR. CLEMENT: Yes, in this case. And the -
and the law that you develop here is not going to be
limited to this case; it's going to apply in other
contexts as well. Heaven knows where it stops. As I
said, Allegheny Pittsburgh -- it was at least limited to
a particular context. Now, I mean, I don't know why any
city ever -- I mean, maybe this is the limiting
principle that no city ever again will provide amnesty
or forgiveness under any circumstances.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Amnesty -- I don't
get -- amnesty is entirely different. Amnesty is for
people who did something wrong. Nobody did something
wrong here; it wasn't wrong to pay with installments.
MR. CLEMENT: But, Mr. Chief Justice,
it's the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the amnesty cases
don't apply.
MR. CLEMENT: It's the same principle. I
mean, I could certainly see some -- you know, suppose
the city elects a laissez-faire mayor and says you know
what? Parking tickets -- it's not worth the hassle;
we're going to getting out of the parking ticket
enforcement business, and we're going to forgive
everybody their parking tickets.
If I had just paid my parking tickets, I'd
be hacked off, but I wouldn't feel like I had a Federal
constitutional right to get my money back. And that's
the difference -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What do you do with the
hypothetical about the income tax and the sales tax?
So, you don't pay any income tax if the sales tax had
gone into effect.
MR. CLEMENT: I think if they really got rid
of the -- the Federal tax forever, I don't think there
would be an equal protection violation. I think there
might be a different constitutional violation. If you
listen to him, the first thing he ticked off about why
that would be so horrible is there was no notice. Well,
that sounds like a due process concern to me, not an
equal protection concern.
And that's really what's happening here.
When they transport Allegheny Pittsburgh from the
context it arose in to this very different context,
they're converting it from an equal protection case to
something more like a contract clause case or to a
Winstar case or something like that. And not one word
in that opinion suggests that once a State adopts a
certain policy, that it's trapped. It can't make a
reasonable and rational transition away from that policy
to a policy that better serves the citizenry.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is -
MR. CLEMENT: And if it doesn't -
JUSTICE ALITO: Is there some identified or
identifiable demographic difference between the two
groups that either justifies or could on -- on a remand
justify the different treatment?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think the one -- I
don't think there's a demographic difference. I think
the one concrete difference that really is a difference
is, from the city's perspective, they're looking at two
groups, all of whom are going to have to pay a new
higher monthly fee.
And I think they can make a rational
decision that says, look, you know, one of these groups
has to make two monthly payments to the city for sewer
and water. That seems a little crazy. So, why are
we -- what we'll do is we'll just make everybody in the
city in terms of their ongoing payments to the city for
sewer and water -- we will treat them all exactly the
same. One fee.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Stancil, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MARK T. STANCIL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. STANCIL: Justice Alito, I want to just
pick up right there. What they're actually saying on
these two monthly payments idea is that it's rational
for somebody who's just paid $300, and now everybody
pays an extra $10 a month -- we don't want them to have
to make their $30 a month Barrett Law payment having
paid $300 and the extra 10.
My clients still have to pay the extra $10 a
month, but we're out of pocket $9,300. I think that is
-- I think that's patently irrational, to say that we're
trying to help people who are out 300 bucks from having
to pay an extra $30 a month going forward.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Stancil, here's what
worries me about this case: To me, this is a case about
transition rules. All legislation creates classes of
citizens, and some are -- and -- and puts them all in a
group and says you're going to be treated in the same
way as long as this legislation exists. And then a
legislature comes along and changes that piece of
legislation, and different people are affected
differently by it.
And to me what you are suggesting is that
when that break is made and when that transition occurs,
the -- I don't know how you would apply the rule that
you're suggesting, which is that everybody in the former
class has to be treated the same as a matter of
transition policy.
MR. STANCIL: If you've promised equal
treatment -- and we're talking about a -- this is a -- a
specific case. A specific commonly shared benefit among
people who are indistinguishable on any rational basis.
They live next door to each other; they flush into the
same pipe; and they paid and were promised equal
payment. In that instance, you -- then there has to be
a rational method. You have to treat them equally when
you transition.
So, there may be times where the city has
promised and committed, and there is no independent
rational basis for distinguishing.
It's not that -- if we want to go forward
and we want to tax blondes instead of brunettes, well,
the fact that we're going to start doing that
prospectively doesn't make that okay. And, moreover,
this isn't prospective. We're talking about an
assessment historically imposed on the very same day for
the very same.
JUSTICE ALITO: But time is usually a
rational reason for doing it. If -- suppose everybody
paid on the installment plan. The city could say as of
a certain date we're -- no more installment payments.
And the people who paid up previously, would -- would
they be -- would they have an equal protection claim?
MR. STANCIL: If we -- I'm sorry. I
thought -
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that there had never
been the option of making the lump-sum payment.
Everybody paid on installment plans over a 10-year
period, and then the city decided January 1, 2012, no
more installment plans; everything that's still due is
forgiven. That would be rational, wouldn't it?
MR. STANCIL: Right. Because we'd all be
treated equally.
Could I quickly get to the administrative
nightmare? In -- if you go to the Cox litigation and go
on Pacer and you pull up document number 98, you'll find
the city's filing in the Cox case, in which they give
the name and address and amount of -- owed to every
taxpayer under any of these 20 other Barrett Law
projects. This is -- I think it's -- I think it's
ludicrous to say there's some Gordian knot that would
have to be cut to issue refunds.
But, more generally, I think this is part of
the city's argument. They say, well, perfection may be
difficult to achieve. Well, so be it. It always is;
but that does not justify gross disparities and
"anything goes." You may want to make a clean break and
go to a new system, fine. But you have to do it in a
way that treats the same people the same.
JUSTICE BREYER: The argument isn't that
it's expensive to administer as much as it is there are
1,000 people in all these projects who are already paid
up. We don't have enough money to pay them all back.
That's why we don't want to pay them back. At the same
time, we don't want to collect the money for 30 years
from these other people who aren't fully paid yet.
MR. STANCIL: Well, if that's the case -
JUSTICE BREYER: The question, I guess, is,
is that rational?
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor. Simply
sending in your tax bill -- again, if you sent in your
taxes yesterday, are you "too bad, so sad"? I don't
think that's rational.
And I want to get back to reliance interest
because -- I can't.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon at 11:09 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
34:12 agree 20:10 31:15 51:14 50:11 63:19 46:15,19 47:15
44:2 42:5,9 55:20 58:1 32:21 40:21 47:24 51:2 53:6 55:11
ahead 36:15 APPEARANCES 42:7 44:13 based 45:11 52:12
aliens 5:3 appellate 9:14 50:18 assumption 17:25 basically 5:5,20
41:22,23 43:20 44:9,18,23 59:16 62:23 attaches 23:22 32:17 34:21 41:16
54:18 45:1,4,23 52:21 apportioned 46:25 authority 40:2,4,5 41:21 44:10 56:13
alive 25:25 32:23 avoiding 35:7 began 55:11
57:16,17 10:22 17:3 18:13 appraisals 47:4 a.m 1:14 3:2 65:21 behalf 2:4,7,10 3:8
34:6 arbitrarily 20:12 B belies 26:10
39:9 50:24 arbitrary 4:2,3 B 23:6 believe 27:6
59:4 11:10 22:7,14 back 6:24 7:10 8:4,4 benefit 3:20 37:21
23:18 8:21,24 11:16 53:15,20 54:10,12
27:4,7
35:7 39:15
44:1,5,7
58:17 64:12
24:5,10 26:13 arose 60:17 22:24 29:24 36:11 bill 23:16 65:14
articulated 46:12 47:20 54:18 bills 3:15
35:11 43:9 asks 4:18 58:19 Barrett 3:23 4:10 blonde 22:6
48:25 50:16 aspect 28:13 6:15 9:16,25 11:21 blondes 63:15
57:19 64:16 assess 48:21 12:3 13:17,21 14:8 blue 28:8
43:15 45:8 called 50:9 changes 62:18 city's 3:22 61:9 24:19 62:7
64:25 candle 40:12 changing 33:24 64:15,22 close 23:17 35:12
8:8 Carmichael 40:8 24:20 claim 18:4 32:8,14 closed 47:19
12:4 14:19 case 3:4 5:19 8:14 check 35:10 32:18 34:21 46:11 Coal 40:8
16:2,11 9:4,23 10:20 11:19 Chief 3:3,9 5:22 46:12 56:4 64:1 code 25:24 26:13,16
17:8 11:20 17:23,24 17:19 18:2 26:20 claiming 9:19 collect 28:3,5 31:1,5
25:2,17 19:20,25 20:1 21:8 26:24 29:12,17 class 11:20 39:17 31:11,15 43:9,13
26:11 39:12 21:10 22:3 26:5,9 32:16 33:5,18,21 40:17,19,20 57:16 44:19,20 46:16
55:7,18 56:5 26:15 27:20 28:14 38:16,20 39:2 42:4 57:17 62:25 65:8
57:2 65:3,11 32:3 33:7 34:5,8 42:8,25 46:17,21 classes 39:13,23 collected 4:11 22:20
56:12 40:25 41:1,1 43:1 54:2 57:14 58:10 classification 4:2 collecting 8:1 44:4
44:20 46:11 53:23 57:10,11,15 choice 4:16 19:6,13 28:22,24 31:16,20 colloquy 32:9
58:25 59:2 60:18 19:14,15 52:24 33:3 37:15,20 come 13:12 14:18
44:6 53:23 10:24 15:10 17:4 circumstances 5:6 8:17 16:9 19:17 coming 14:21 47:7
39:10 52:8 54:8 cited 41:25 53:9 58:1 commitment 48:18
31:24 40:13 challenge 9:5 35:22 17:21 18:2,7 22:4 39:1,4 40:6,23 16:1
45:7,21,24 35:25 47:12,13 24:2 29:19,19 30:5 41:12,15,18,21 complicated 31:5
50:2 51:2 51:22,23 31:14 36:7,11 42:6,24 44:9,23 compromising 26:18
59:22 challenged 41:3 37:11 38:16 41:6 45:3,6 46:9,20 concern 35:6 60:13
43:15,22 44:3,17 47:2,6,25 48:6,13 60:14
19:16 23:22 course 31:11 39:21 decide 9:4 34:11 62:19 drawing 4:4 8:8
53:5 60:1,10 53:16,21 54:4 57:7 57:24 differential 47:17 drawn 34:22 51:24
51:19 54:10 11:23,24 18:14,16 decision 15:3 19:10 difficult 64:23 drink 37:25 38:3,6
59:5 60:17 19:11 22:1 27:1 44:2 61:13 disagree 52:4 drinking 37:24
28:11 29:18 38:2 decisions 26:14 discharge 28:7 due 29:24 42:24
52:6,12 53:9,14,25 54:12 discretely 3:19 D.C 1:9,16,18
courts 11:1 defined 3:19 40:17 37:24 39:7 52:8,11 E
60:19 Cox 11:20 13:9 11:10 64:24 easier 26:20
created 39:4 denied 52:15,16 16:25 effectively 18:22
62:14 describing 46:10 17:2 18:1 eight 40:11,18
cure 18:7 53:19 desirable 4:3 disregards 41:9 38:11 49:5 50:20
27:3 dice 50:19 55:8 eliminate 4:5 37:19
D 1:18 2:6 3:1 29:15 39:11,13,21 40:17 56:14 63:13 40:18
44:13 45:20 damages 10:24 53:1 60:2 61:3,7,8 document 64:14 49:5
46:3 47:8,8 11:23 12:1 57:21 61:8 documents 27:15 enforceable 28:22
15:1 19:7 20:14,16 51:14,25 five 34:25 52:19
17:4 21:23 62:24 63:22 64:6 facts 16:11 flyspecking 51:2 36:13 41:9,11,14
50:17 58:11 everybody's 19:2 failing 28:6 focus 51:9
9:1 10:8 52:11 faith 4:5 forcing 49:12 gain 45:5
12:23,24 exactly 14:18 18:13 faulty 25:16,20 foresee 26:5 game 40:11
17:7 19:21 19:18 38:12,23 favor 11:24 forever 26:3 60:8 general 15:12 54:23
23:2 46:13 52:7 61:18 FCC 8:15 forgave 14:19 16:7 generally 26:14
27:2,7 example 4:9 5:12,23 February 1:10 23:11 forgive 5:21 22:23 64:21
31:13,16,20 5:25 24:5,13 Federal 11:20 23:10 24:22 29:1,23 getting 19:8 25:4
33:2,15 exception 27:7 51:6 54:6 57:18,22 31:19,21 32:13 52:20,20 59:21
34:14 37:14 Excuse 42:8 59:25 60:8 34:10 36:10 44:2 Ginsburg 9:11 11:16
39:21 exert 46:2 fee 13:23,23,24 14:4 54:17 59:22 19:6,15 38:10,13
41:1,9 42:13 exist 39:16 14:13 21:5 31:8 forgiven 5:4 16:1,21 give 7:10,24 8:4
43:2,10 exists 50:4 62:17 61:11,19 22:22 23:16 64:9 10:5 11:3,14 12:9
52:13,15,16 expectation 37:6,9 feel 59:25 forgiveness 18:8 12:14,15 17:5
53:22 60:9 expedience 35:4 fees 14:25 22:15 26:13,16 27:16 23:18 29:6 37:2
63:2,7 expediency 34:20 figure 11:14 35:15 28:18 35:22 36:4 43:16 53:4 55:2,9
expense 39:15,16 35:16 57:9,21 37:2,3,12,13,16 56:15,18 58:20
21:25 24:11 65:4 filed 23:14 24:6 23:3 24:13 35:19 giving 16:8 35:19,24
32:21,23 explain 9:23 35:23 filer 23:15 former 62:24 37:4
40:22 42:12 explanation 56:18 files 31:2 forward 13:19 38:17 go 5:18 8:3 19:2,19
46:25 47:10 explicitly 3:20 filing 64:15 42:10 56:1 58:12 21:1 23:10 24:18
48:9,17,21 explore 27:19 final 47:13 58:19 62:11 63:14 32:14 35:1,12
64:11 express 50:20 52:6 finality 47:16 48:10 foul 26:15 38:10 42:20 51:19
50:15 face 31:20 35:12 43:11 60:11 16:18 23:25 41:5 14:14 20:5,17
23:16 25:6 41:22 49:25 18:23 22:18 29:20 jettisoning 3:23
26:7,12,15 happen 26:6 55:1 huge 58:16,18 indistinguishable Joe 16:20
31:21,22,25 happened 12:12 human 25:25 63:5 judges 28:11
34:10,11,12 15:23 27:18 38:1 hundreds 25:3 individual 24:6 judgment 5:13 9:13
36:25 52:7 hypothesis 55:4 26:19 9:13 44:12 45:14
38:17 happening 60:15 56:10 individualized 6:2 49:8
41:6,23 happens 4:24 43:8 hypothetical 13:3 24:15 June 22:25
44:20 harming 37:21 60:4 inequality 42:21 Justice's 5:23
47:8 48:20 hassle 59:20 56:24 58:2,3 justification 3:25
50:1 hates 20:15 I inflicts 19:16 20:12
54:17 57:7 hear 3:3 35:1 44:9 idea 34:18 48:20 inherently 6:1 justified 3:25 22:3
59:1,2,21,22 heard 55:7 56:17,21 54:11 62:2 initial 3:24 27:15 justifies 44:8 47:17
62:11,16 Heaven 59:3 identifiable 61:3 injury 52:14 61:4
heavily 8:15 identified 61:2 insolvency 46:16 justify 61:5 64:24
53:13,13,24 54:14 illegal 5:3,4 4:12,14,17 7:20 K
32:4,10 34:7 herring 23:4 immigration 5:2 installments 4:19 31:17 62:12
higher 61:11 impermissible 54:19 43:12 49:5 59:12 Kagan's 53:11
11:4,6,13 historically 63:19 important 9:24 63:8 41:6
58:2,3 64:24 history 8:4 39:11 51:10 instructions 52:6 Kennedy 27:12,22
home 45:10 6:5 24:11 63:19 intended 20:15 32:5 36:2,6,9,10
homeowners 3:19 imposing 45:10 47:16 57:12 65:17 52:22 60:3
6:25 7:21 8:7,23 improvement 48:1 37:16 51:15 kind 5:25
18:10 21:11,16,21 29:22 involve 5:2 57:3 know 6:7 11:12
26:8,23 27:3 28:20 incentives 52:10 involving 20:2 22:4,24 27:13
65:13 including 39:6 irrational 6:2 62:9 32:13 33:5 34:10
57:4,5,13 62:19 looks 6:20 20:4 54:3,13 55:24 municipal 14:5 28:4
58:4,5,6,20 legislative 19:13,14 loosely 21:3 57:15 58:1,22 59:5
61:13 legislature 19:7 lop 13:16 15:6 42:19 59:6,18 N
38:14 62:18 lose 44:11 means 19:21 N 2:1,1 3:1
liable 28:6 lucky 23:15 method 3:11 22:9 7:2
19:3 27:9 liens 30:1 lump-sum 64:5 58:12,16,24 45:2,4,4
46:23 likes 30:13 millions 23:11 neutral 33:9 51:13
limitations 54:24 maintain 41:23 42:2 minute 27:19 51:9 never 19:2 64:4
7:6 8:9 9:2,16 limited 59:2,4 44:14,24 minutes 61:22 new 13:18,20 14:4,5
11:11,21 limiting 59:6 maintaining 29:25 missed 15:14 14:7,13,20,23,24
13:21 14:8 limits 10:25 30:1 44:13 modest 31:8 15:8 21:5 22:16
27:14,25 line 8:6,14,22 10:11 making 8:17 20:11 money 5:2 6:14 7:10 61:10 65:1
29:2,21,24 10:23 15:11 20:5,7 35:2 39:25 42:25 8:21 9:18 12:10,13 next-door 3:13 9:7
22:14 25:7 44:5 64:5 12:14,19 13:1,21 17:2
31:24 32:11 lines 10:25 11:1 mandamus 51:20 15:18,24 16:8,17 nightmare 25:6 27:7
13:24 manner 4:11 28:2 16:18 17:21 19:8 41:23 55:21 64:13
34:9 line-drawing 11:18 MARK 1:16 2:3,9 20:8 23:1 44:6,19 non-gross 10:19
36:20 listen 58:1 60:11 3:7 61:23 45:20 55:3,5,9 non-starter 49:15
38:22,23,24 litigation 37:19 math 22:10 56:16,19 60:1 65:6 Nordlinger 6:22
40:13,22 41:25 57:18,22 Mathews 52:10 65:8 17:3 51:4,23
64:13 53:13,14,25 month 12:12 13:6 normally 39:25
46:14,15 little 9:22 13:4 46:5 matter 1:12 6:19 14:6,14 22:19 notice 23:19,21
47:9,15 55:13 58:14 61:15 11:11 15:12 43:8 25:11 46:5 62:4,5 60:12
49:2,4,8,19 live 6:6 12:25 63:6 62:25 65:22 62:8,11 notion 26:10
50:4,4,8 logic 5:1,5 mayor 12:8,8,9 16:4 monthly 14:24 21:5 nullification 53:16
logical 37:15 16:4,17,22,24 20:4 22:15 61:11,14 number 10:22 19:12
53:6 54:6,20 long 41:11 62:17 20:9,16,17 21:2 62:2 31:8 40:7 57:5
59:1 62:5 longer 11:4 42:21 59:19 months 6:7 22:23 64:14
look 32:11 40:7,7 mean 5:6 6:12 8:5 morning 3:4 numbers 10:5
51:5,6 61:9 multiple 52:3
51:19 57:24 43:22 25:1 59:20,21,23 12:25 13:11,12,13 51:11,12,25 59:4
oral 1:12 2:2,5 3:7 59:24 14:13,13,21,24 60:16
ordinance 36:21,23 50:24 64:21 17:12,25 18:16 plaintiff 37:20
outline 43:21 patently 62:9 45:22 47:18,19 pleading 12:1
44:24 outset 7:16 PAUL 1:18 2:6 48:5,5 49:13,22 please 3:10 29:18
outstanding 10:1 29:15 50:10,12,14,16 plus 58:13
16:2,16 owe 5:20,21 15:23 25:10 29:5 31:6 percent 17:5 24:2 13:19 43:4 48:17
35:21 41:10 16:16 58:17 34:1,2 40:21 42:18 51:17,18 49:2,7,22 51:4
45:16 owed 58:7 64:16 44:3,21 46:4 48:5 perfect 25:13,18 54:8
55:20 58:15 owners 48:16 48:5,24 49:13 50:1 perfection 64:22 police 5:16
50:17 56:4,11 perfectly 43:15,16 policy 21:19,20,22
19:9 22:18 Pacer 64:14 payers 45:17,17,18 64:7 60:22,23,24 63:1
50:4,9 package 15:4,5 paying 3:12 4:5 9:22 permissible 53:4 political 34:19 35:4
60:21 pages 25:24 27:11 23:20,20 24:14 personally 28:6 44:15 49:19
10:8 12:13 15:7,19 14:19 28:1,5 31:1 2:4,10 3:8,12,15 31:3 36:23,24 43:5
60:21 26:24 30:7,8 39:15 pays 14:4,6,25 29:8 pipe 9:7 13:1 14:4 potentially 51:7
56:2,11,14 59:24 penalty 5:11 24:13 Pittsburgh 6:22 prefer 53:6
39:8 44:8 62:3,6 63:7,23,25 24:18 10:22 17:3 18:13 premise 25:20
53:3,9 54:12 64:6 65:5,9 people 5:7 7:3,8,19 26:22 32:9,17,20 present 56:3
parking 4:25 5:13 7:25 8:1,5,20 9:6 33:6,7,12 34:6 presenting 50:8
58:7 64:18 65:5 36:25 45:23 really 23:7 24:9 rely 8:15
32:2 27:22 43:2,8,15 putting 50:25 34:13 35:25 42:3 remaining 61:22
54:4 question 7:11 10:17 7:24 11:8 15:11 52:5 53:5
17:7 18:8 prospectively 63:17 57:20,22 65:11 25:19 60:23 13:8,10,13 15:21
33:8 34:3 protection 5:9 10:8 questioning 41:20 reasons 5:9 12:22 require 28:10
50:24 51:16 11:25 15:10 17:7 quickly 64:12 23:19 35:18,19 required 4:17 40:22
19:21 21:8,15 quite 6:17 27:5 52:3 requirement 33:16
31:13,16,20 32:8 quote 4:10 53:14 61:23 Requires 28:3
21:5 22:1 39:22 40:24 41:1 red 23:4 resident 14:4,25
29:21,25 43:2 46:12 53:22 reduced 50:15 Resolution 35:25
35:3 44:14,14 60:9,14,18 64:1 referring 47:23,24 36:18 37:10,10,16
45:11 proved 29:21 49:19 47:25 39:5 41:3 43:4
25:4 26:13 provide 27:15 28:14 refund 6:14 10:11 resources 22:2
30:10,12 34:7
35:24 39:19
41:16,21
11:21 12:3 providing 37:13 55:5 56:3 57:24 48:19 50:23 55:25
43:3 44:10
provision 25:25 26:1 58:7,11,19,21 56:20
13:5,7,13,14 29:1 43:13 46:13 refunded 12:19 Respondents 1:19
60:23 61:12
46:18,19 47:3,11 13:12 2:7 8:14 11:17
63:5,9,13,22 refunds 19:18 20:20
22:21 50:4 29:16
65:12,16
48:1,4,21,22 provisions 27:13,24 31:19 35:19,24 response 56:19
55:8 56:10 47:14 48:11 36:5 37:2,4,14 rest 10:3 22:16
57:15 public 21:3 29:22 43:18 53:4 54:17 restored 52:18
30:13 54:21 55:2 64:20 rests 25:16,20
11:17 12:24 punitive 10:24 rejection 44:8 retains 38:16
15:17,24 16:3 purposes 20:15 54:8 relevant 41:1 52:1 return 22:12
44:22 45:6 39:12 41:8 42:10 sever 54:20 somebody's 45:10 63:2 64:2,10 65:10
49:4 60:7 53:2,2,3 62:1 severability 54:14 57:7 65:13
14:16 15:16 17:21 18:3 20:4 13:24 14:3,5,20 42:22 51:20,21 start 10:20 14:3
18:21 22:4 28:1,3,4 29:2 21:6 33:1 40:21 SOTOMAYOR 25:4 26:1 42:13
28:25 29:7 31:18 32:20,22 48:4 49:14 50:1 4:22 5:16 13:15 63:16
39:1 33:1 40:9 43:11,13 61:14,18 14:12,17 15:1 24:4 started 42:20
49:24,24 47:5,9 48:13 49:25 sewers 28:17 45:25 24:9,21 57:9 starters 5:9
51:12 51:19 54:17 55:1 sex 37:23 39:6 52:8 sound 42:25 State 3:20 4:7 6:16
55:15,18 59:19 61:13 62:16 52:11 54:7 sounds 25:13 49:20 6:18,21,25 7:7 8:9
57:13,16 60:1 Scalia 11:2 17:10 shared 63:4 60:13 9:2 12:23 21:8
64:10 18:18,22 19:19 sharing 3:19 Southern 40:8 28:11,25 32:19,25
18:2 26:20 41:17,19 52:9 shows 31:13 32:7 7:2 8:24 9:23 10:5 51:1,7 52:6 60:21
29:12 32:16 53:21 55:23 56:1,6 50:7 47:11 54:6,9 63:4 statement 56:17
38:16,20 57:25 sign 4:18 63:4 states 1:1,13 7:15
42:4,8 46:17 Scalia's 42:9 signed 43:23 specifically 5:25 15:21,22 23:9
47:5,21 search 46:18 47:15 significance 23:22 18:12,16 26:17 27:13 28:14
49:17 53:12 searched 46:22 significant 27:5 speeder 5:12 status 5:2
54:2 57:14 second 35:7 57:8 similar 26:18 40:12 spend 42:3 statute 33:8 36:20
59:9 secured 4:12 similarly 3:17,21 7:1 spread 46:3 36:22 51:13,15,16
61:21 65:19 see 8:2 13:15 17:8 7:12,17,19 9:3 stake 17:21 57:10 52:5 54:21
53:24 54:7 59:18 26:5 3:6,7,9 5:8,22 6:16 stern 43:7
seen 15:5 simpler 35:10 6:20,24 7:12,15,21 stick 47:8
8:18,20 11:9 set 32:25 57:21 somebody 5:18 13:5 26:8,12,23 27:3,10 submitted 65:20,22
21:18,18,22 sets 33:3 41:22 26:9 37:21 42:14 27:21,24 28:19,23 substantial 57:1
26:17 settled 50:15 42:14,16,17 46:11 29:7,10,13 32:9 suddenly 8:4
32:10 39:20 19:22 21:19,20,22 39:2,20 42:4 44:25 62:16,25 64:11 48:18
22:3 23:10,11,16 44:25 45:3 49:6 treating 14:21 30:7 understands 25:25
20:21 26:16 30:1 31:3 54:25 56:21 57:12 treatment 4:6 7:4 43:23
62:21,24 39:14 40:10 45:11 57:13 60:7,8,9 9:1,1 11:11 12:23 unequal 33:10 42:23
taxation 3:24 thinking 45:15 56:9 47:17 52:13,15,17 unique 44:13 51:18
59:18 63:22 64:17 thousands 25:24 triggering 11:6 18:21,23 29:22
taxpayers 3:17,18 three 10:2 27:10 triggers 11:6 44:15 49:9,20
15:23 16:3 18:4 ticked 60:11 try 25:23 55:8 56:8 upgrade 42:2
taxpayer's 4:6 24:7,13,17,22 31:24 35:23 39:23 uses 14:5
48:20 27:12 49:1 tickets 59:20,23,24 50:5 57:23 58:17 U.S 25:24
16:6 19:9 61:20,21 65:19 63:21 65:8 34:23 39:13,23 47:15
26:21 29:8 theory 5:5 7:10 times 3:13 6:8 9:10 41:22 47:14 61:3,9 validity 4:20
34:1 42:3,10 31:14 28:3 34:2 63:11 61:14 62:2 various 15:21,22
they'd 11:8 45:12 timing 3:16 23:19 verify 58:19
think 7:24,25 10:4 total 18:3 unconstitutionally 43:11
45:10 50:9 11:13 13:22 17:10 transition 60:23 underlying 4:20 11:7,8,25 19:16
we'll 3:3 24:18 29:7 year 10:12,15 10:09 1:14 3:2
100 51:17 3
31:1,15
45:9,12,15
15:2,5 16:12 50:1,17 54:17  11:09 65:21 30-year 10:3 42:15
22:4,5 23:7 59:21,22 62:8,9 ber 50:8 12 6:7 45:18
31:6 34:13,15 63:3,16,18,24 13 33:13 300 62:10
40:13,13,15 we've 35:15,16 42:1 $ 14 12:16 31 6:7
43:6,17,18,20 44:15 45:21 49:15 $1,000 16:21 15 12:11 46:22
45:6,7 whatsoever 4:16 $10 14:6,14 22:18 4
46:24
50:6 62:4,7 4 10:23 12:17 61:22
56:2,19 $10,000 49:13 50:1 176 50:9 400 42:17 48:5
62:4 63:14 willy-nilly 29:1 $100,000 44:19,21 18 37:25 38:3,6,14 5
64:25 65:7,8 win 11:2 13:9 16:7 $2,500 14:4,24 15:2 180 38:23
10:23 11:4
26:5 $2,783,702.59 17:24 181 6:5
51:18
Winstar 40:25 43:1 $200,000 42:2,6 1890 55:10 6
60:20 44:13 61 2:10
word 33:11 54:21 $300 62:3,6 56:12 57:10
22:8,11 23:5 works 21:3 22:10 $500,000 44:20 25:3,10 56:13 57:5 95 13:14
29:2 33:10 54:15 $9,300 62:8 64:17 97 24:2
40:12 42:22 worried 52:9 20-year 45:17 98 64:14
46:10,14 1 2001 10:4
55:1 62:17 1 10:21,21,23,23 2005 29:19
11:4 12:15,19 2007 22:25
59:20
56:10,12 64:7 2011 23:12,14
59:25 64:9
59:11,12,12
10,000 7:8 42:14,17 240 50:10
