IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
THE STANDARD FIRE INSURANCE :
COMPANY, :
Petitioner : No. 11-1450
v. :
GREG KNOWLES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, January 7, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR., ESQ., Los Angeles,
California; on behalf of Petitioner.
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 11-1450, the Standard Fire
Insurance Company v. Knowles.
Mr. Boutrous.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BOUTROUS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Congress enacted the Class Action Fairness
Act of 2005, CAFA, to expand Federal diversity
jurisdiction and to protect defendants and absent class
members against the kind of State court class action
abuses that are occurring in Miller County, Arkansas.
Congress directed that in calculating the amount in
controversy, "courts shall aggregate the claims of the
individual class members." That's 28 U.S.C. Section
1332(d)(6), it's quoted in full at page 2 of our blue brief.
Congress's express focus on the claims of
the individual class members in the text of the statute,
rather than on the amount being sought by the would-be
class representative, is dispositive of the question
presented and requires reversal in this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would your position
be the same if the issue were not the amount sought but
rather the substantive claims? Say there are two
different claims the class member -- the class could
raise. One would yield damages of $4,900,000. The
other would yield damages of $10 million. Do you have
the same objection in a case in which the prospective
representative only pleads the first claim?
MR. BOUTROUS: Not necessarily, Your Honor.
We are not arguing that here. There are cases that this
Court has decided going back to Barry v. Edmunds in 1886
where there are allegations in a complaint that might,
for example, yield a punitive damage claim, but it's not
explicitly pled, and the courts then look and say,
punitive damages could be recovered here and say the
amount in controversy clearly exceeds the -- the
necessary amount.
But we're not saying that in every case the
courts need to look through and see every claim that
could be in play.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you do
seem to have a difficulty with your position about how
far it goes. You make the point in your briefs about
the statute of limitations question. In other words,
it's not just how much they claim, but where they decide
to cut off the statute of limitations and so forth.
It seems to me that it's a bit of a slippery
slope if you start saying we're going to look at what
the class could -- could recover in deciding whether or
not, not simply whether or not this representative is
adequate, but whether or not it's below or above, above
or below $5 million.
MR. BOUTROUS: That's really how it's been
done, Your Honor, from day one. Under the traditional
diversity statute, the courts look and see what's the
maximum amount the plaintiff on his or her best day
could recover based on the factual allegations in the
complaint and the causes of action that could arise from
the factual allegations --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but under the
traditional -- you surely don't want us to apply the
rules of the traditional diversity statute to this case
because it's clear that under the traditional diversity
statute, you -- you can waive excessive damages, right?
MR. BOUTROUS: That's correct, Your Honor.
The individual --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you don't want us to
apply that rule here.
MR. BOUTROUS: I don't want you to apply
that rule, Your Honor, because that rule applies to the
individual who brings his own case in court and can say,
I want to come into court and collect less than the
amount that would give Federal jurisdiction. It's much
different when Mr. Knowles has come to court and said, I
want to represent these other individuals in Arkansas.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, why doesn't -- why
doesn't the normal class certification process protect
adequately the absent class members? First of all,
counsel has to prove he or she is adequate. So doesn't
that mean that if they enter a stipulation that is
grossly unfair to the class that the judge is not going
to certify that case?
MR. BOUTROUS: It wouldn't protect it --
protect from the problems and abuses that Congress was
concerned about, Your Honor, and that are occurring
here.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You haven't answered.
If -- if the court finds the stipulation inadequate for
the class, is that class going to be certified?
MR. BOUTROUS: It could be, Your Honor. And
another class representative could come in and could
seek more than $5 million. That's why --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And then they would get
removed to the Federal court, which is what the statute
was intended to do.
MR. BOUTROUS: But what Congress was
concerned about in the text of the statute, and the
Senate report make this very clear, that with all the
abuses that occur in the interim, discovery that has
nothing to do with the case -- the discovery here goes
back 10 years. The -- this case --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, discovery
vis-a-vis the certification of the class is going to
happen anyway. My point is that much of your argument
in your brief is centered around binding the absent
class members. What I'm getting to is that if the
stipulation is grossly unfair, there may not be a class
at all, or the Plaintiffs who have claims greater than
those in the aggregate might opt -- will get notice and
opt out.
And there is due process challenges if a
settlement is entered that is so grossly unfair that it
violates due process. So I don't know why the process
itself doesn't protect the interests of -- of Congress.
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor -- excuse me. The
Congress was very concerned that cases were being kept
in the State courts through abuses and manipulations of
the amount in controversy. It's very clear in the
Senate report, Congress talks about this because, for
example, in this case the defendants can never get a
class certification hearing in Miller County.
They can never get a ruling on the merits.
And in the meantime, the kind of abuses that Congress
was concerned about, the lack of the Rule 23 protection,
the application of those standards to protect the class
members --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But Mr. Boutrous, you say what
Congress is concerned about and point to the Senate report.
You know, usually we look to the text and the text makes
very clear that Congress was concerned about many things
and it did many things. It got -- it really -- it
raised the matter in controversy threshold. It
eliminated the Zahn anti-aggregation rule. It
eliminated the complete diversity requirement. It
eliminated the one-year limit on removal.
Here's one thing it didn't eliminate. It
didn't eliminate the St. Paul master of your complaint
rule. So -- so I guess where in the text do you see
this? You point to claim, the word "claim." Is that
the only thing that you are resting on in the text?
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, I think the text
does take away the St. Paul rule that an individual can
control what he seeks and go where he desires and do
what he wants -- or she -- because it points to the
claims of the individual class members and the text
Congress could expect --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, if I said to you,
Mr. Boutrous, "Is your claim for over $100,000," what
would you think I mean? Would you think I mean some
sort of abstract version of the best claim you could
bring, or would you think I mean what I demanded, what I
asked for?
MR. BOUTROUS: Well, Your Honor, I would
think that I would answer you that it's worth as much as
I can possibly obtain in court if I was seeking to
adequately represent the class. But in terms of valuing
the claims here --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think that the word
"claim" is not -- when you say Joe made a claim for
$100,000, a claim is not what he asked for, but is
instead some kind of law professor's view of what the
best thing that he could have asked for?
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, we've cited the
Tohono O'odham Nation case, where the Court interpreted
the word "claim" and said when a statute uses the word
"claim" regarding claims that have not been brought,
it's the operative facts and the right to recovery, not
the demand. That's exactly what we have here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Boutrous, I thought
at least as an alternative argument, you're saying: The
statute itself is silent. It doesn't deal with this
question of amount in controversy. However, the
individual, the named plaintiff, who has said, I'm not
going to seek more than the $5 million, cannot speak for
the members of the class who are absent. He can't
stipulate that they will take under 5,000.
I thought that was the central part of your
argument, not based on the statute itself, but on the
notion that a named plaintiff, unless and until he is --
he is certified to represent the class - doesn't
represent them.
He can represent himself, but he can't bind
the people who -- who have not been certified as part of
a class. I thought that was part of your argument.
MR. BOUTROUS: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, that's
absolutely right. And because the statute focuses on
the claims of the individual class members, Mr. Knowles
has no power to affect those claims. He's not the
master --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But he doesn't have power to
affect those claims before the certification has
happened.
MR. BOUTROUS: Exactly.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Before the certification has
happened, they can do whatever they want. They can go
bring their own claim for $6 million. And that's why
Smith v. Bayer, which you so happily rely on, does not
have much to do with this case. Smith v. Bayer is the
question of can an -- can a person be precluded by a
judgment when that person was not part of a class.
There's no question that this person is going to be
precluded. This person can go do whatever he or she
wants before class certification and judgment.
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, that's --
Smith v. Bayer says the plaintiff can't bind the class.
Plaintiffs have now conceded that. So what we have
here, the district court found on an uncontradicted
record that the claims of the individual class members
exceed $5 million. That means there's Federal
jurisdiction.
Back to Justice Ginsburg's point, that is
exactly our point, Your Honor. The -- a named plaintiff
cannot affect or jeopardize or undermine the claims of
absent individuals.
JUSTICE BREYER: This is what I -- could you
go back --
MR. BOUTROUS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- to Justice Kagan's first
question? I was looking at the words of the statute.
And if I look at 1332, which has been on the books a
long time, it says, "The district court shall have
original jurisdiction of all civil actions where the
matter in controversy exceeds the sum or value of
$75,000, exclusive of interest, of costs, and" -- et
cetera, okay?
Then I look here, and it says, "The district
court shall have jurisdiction of any civil action in
which the manner in controversy exceeds the sum or value
of $5 million, exclusive of interest and costs," et
cetera, okay? So the words seem identical.
Now, in respect to the first, we know that a
lawyer can file a binding stipulation that says, I don't
care what this is about, I am not asking for more than
$75,000, and the Federal court does not have
jurisdiction. Given that's true in the first statute,
and given that the second statute is almost identically
worded, at least in that part, why can't he do the same
thing with the $5 million?
And it can't be the words I quoted that
stopped him from doing it, so what is the word that
stops him from doing it?
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, it's the other
part that is extremely important, section 1332(d)(6).
You were quoting from section 1332(d)(2). Unlike
section 1332(a), Congress in CAFA explicitly added
subsection (6), which says "In any class action, the
claims of the individual class member shall be
aggregated to determine" --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, as to what that looks
like, "shall be aggregated," again from the language, is
it's simply to make certain that Zahn does not require
the individual -- thing to approach -- to count. In
other words, you aggregate rather than just looking at
the individual members, which is Zahn, which has nothing
to do with the issue before us.
MR. BOUTROUS: Well, Justice Breyer,
Congress could have said we're just getting rid of Zahn,
or it could have said the aggregate amount being sought
by the named plaintiff is going to control. But if
you took that away --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, they rarely pass a
statute that says, let's just get rid of case X.
Normally they look to the holding of case X, and then
they pass the statute that says the opposite. So the
holding of Zahn was that you could not aggregate the
individual members' claims in a class. So to get rid of
Zahn, what we do is we pass a statute that says you can
aggregate.
And indeed, nobody objects here to the
aggregation. It's the total amount of the claims being
limited by a stipulation that is the issue here, and
that's why I had trouble finding your argument in the
word "aggregation."
MR. BOUTROUS: It's really not the word
"aggregation," Your Honor. It's the word "individual"
and it's with the word "claims." If Congress had done
what you are suggesting, Justice Breyer, it could have
said the aggregate amount being sought by the named
plaintiff, or the total amount, or the demand of the
plaintiff. In the Venue Clarification Act, which was
passed in 2011, which applies to 1332(a), Congress said
the sum demanded will control.
But here, to protect the legitimate claims,
Congress defining, as I urged the Court --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Boutrous, that form of
argument -- Congress could have said -- does seem to me
to be much worse for your position. If Congress had
wanted to get rid of the St. Paul master of your
complaint rule, it could have said, we are getting rid
of the St. Paul master of your complaint rule. But
you're trying to find it in a provision which is really
an anti-Zahn provision, not an anti-St. Paul provision.
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, it really goes to
a fundamental issue of what a class action is. If Mr.
Knowles had come into court himself on behalf of
himself, and Zahn -- in St. Paul, the money quote, if
you will, in St. Paul says "if he desires to go to State
court, he can limit his recovery."
Mr. Knowles --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Let's get back to the Chief
Justice's question because there are a thousand ways in
which we let the named plaintiff prior to certification
construct a case, and then we ask, as Justice Sotomayor
said, later we ask, is the way he's constructed a case
adequate or not, and we allow him to go forward or not
based on that.
But he gets to decide whether to seek
damages. He gets -- at all, or whether he only can seek
injunctive relief. He gets to decide which claims to
bring, trespass or negligence. He gets to decide how
many years' worth to ask for. He gets to decide which
defendants to sue.
All of these things are going to have an
effect on -- on the amount that's -- that's being asked
for. And yet in all of these ways, we allow or --
maybe you're telling me no -- do we stop the named
plaintiff from doing all -- all of those things, too?
MR. BOUTROUS: We don't stop them from doing
all of those things, Your Honor. And there are certain
things -- we -- we agree that the complaint controls a
great deal -- the factual allegations.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about specifically
the question that the Chief asked about time? You did
argue in the district court that these plaintiffs could
have specified a 5-year time period, in which case it
would be clear that the amount in controversy was
satisfied. But instead, they took a 2-year period.
Can we take that also into account in
determining the amount in controversy, that the
complaint could have been enlarged to include 5 years
instead of 2 years?
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, I believe you
could. And I believe that the Court's decision in Hertz
said if there is a sign of manipulation that is meant to
thwart jurisdiction or affect jurisdiction, the Court
can look through that to look to competent proof of what
the actual facts are.
And I think that what has happened here is
the plaintiff's lawyers, in addition to these
stipulations, they're slicing and dicing the classes up
into pieces to -- to thwart jurisdiction and manipulate
jurisdiction.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your approach leads
to particularly perverse results. You're at the
position of arguing that -- you know, they are seeking
less than $5 million, but we're responsible for a lot
more damage than that. And of course, you don't concede
it, but you do say, if in fact we're liable, the damages
are going to be a lot greater. Could -- I assume that
admission could be used against you under principles of
judicial estoppel.
MR. BOUTROUS: It's an unusual position to
be in, Your Honor, it's not quite what we're arguing.
We're arguing that under the rules for judging the
amount in controversy that this Court has enforced, the
lower courts have enforced these for hundreds of years,
and it's that you look at the complaint and say what's
the maximum amount the plaintiff can get on their best
day under the claims they've pled based on the facts and
the proof and the evidence.
Here, the uncontradicted evidence, put aside
the statute of limitations question or any other claim
they could have brought, it exceeds $5 million. The
plaintiff never --
JUSTICE ALITO: Is there a difference
between what you're --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you -- you chimed
into this discussion --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's go by
seniority. Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is there a difference
between what you are advocating and the approach that's
now taken in the General Removal Statute as it's been
amended recently under 1446(c)(2)? So there as I read
it, the amount demanded in the complaint is not
necessarily controlling.
A case can be removed even if the amount
demanded in the complaint is below the jurisdictional
threshold and then the defendant can prove that the real
amount involved exceeds the jurisdictional threshold.
MR. BOUTROUS: That's -- that's exactly
right, Your Honor. There's greater leeway under CAFA
because under 1332(a) and 1446, there are certain
standards that need to be met to allow the defendant to
put on proof. But that's how it's always been. The
defendant can then put on evidence and say this is the
actual amount in controversy.
And here, the only way the plaintiff got
around it in the lower courts was to argue that the
stipulation was binding, Justice Kagan, that was their
argument below and that's what the district court found.
It found that the stipulation was binding on the class.
JUSTICE KAGAN: It's binding if the class is
certified and a case proceeds to judgment. It's not
binding on the absent class members prior to
certification and prior to judgment.
MR. BOUTROUS: And that means that
jurisdiction in the Federal courts exists because we
judge jurisdiction at the time of removal. And at the
time of removal, there was no binding limitation on the
recovery that could be obtained, undisputed facts showed
that that exceeds $5 million when the claims of the
individual class members are aggregated.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I think I don't understand
that, Mr. Boutrous, because what you have, given that
this is a State which says that these stipulations are
binding if it proceeds, if there's certification, and if
it proceeds to judgment, you have a cap of $5 million.
You cannot be charged more than $5 million under this
State's law, if this case ever gets to judgment.
MR. BOUTROUS: The problem, Your Honor,
again and this isn't just me. This is what Congress
said in its findings. In -- in the text as you noted,
it eliminated the -- but the five pillars of
restrictions and diversity jurisdiction because in State
courts, the courts aren't applying Rule 23-like
standards. They're not doing it in Miller County.
They're not even allowing class
certification to occur or to be heard, and instead this
discovery is being taken. Here, the limitations period
is limited to two -- or the class period is limited to
two years. The discovery that was served with the
complaint goes back to 13 years. So --
JUSTICE ALITO: Even if this case were
handled on remand to the Arkansas Supreme Court exactly
like a Federal class action, I don't understand how
absent class members would ever be able to -- to
determine whether by failing to opt out, they had
compromised part of their claim. I don't see how, even
if they're notified that there's a $5 million cap -- and
I don't know that Rule 23 requires that, but suppose
they're notified of that.
They can't tell whether, by remaining a
member of the class, their claim is going to be
compromised at all. It would depend on lots of
different things, including how many members are in the
class after it's certified. And that's something they
can't know.
MR. BOUTROUS: That's -- that's exactly
right, Your Honor, and that's something page 3a of the
addendum to our opening brief, the findings --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Your concern is that
the -- that the certification -- if the certification
would occur in the Federal court, that's one thing. But
you're -- you're saying that the named plaintiff can't
stand for the entire class when we know that -- that the
certification question, if the stipulation is binding to
prevent removal, it's going to be the State court that's
going to look into the adequacy of representation and
whether the stipulation binds all members of the class.
That's your whole concern. If the -- if the
Federal court made that determination, I think you
wouldn't be here.
MR. BOUTROUS: Well, that's what Congress
was concerned about, too, Your Honor. It was concerned
that the State courts weren't applying standards of
uniformity in these -- class actions that are affecting
interstate commerce and that Rule 23's protections and
standards should apply.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Congress was concerned
about suits of over $5 million. And -- and the question
here is, is this a suit of over $5 million. Now, if it
is a suit over $5 million, a State court is bound by the
due process clause and a State court is going to find,
look, you're just giving these plaintiffs' claims away.
We're not going to allow you to do that. You're not an
adequate representative.
On the other hand, in a case like this where
it's $5,024,000 and it only gets there because you've
added on one and a half million dollars of legal fees,
the Court might very well say you are an adequate
representative, go for it. Now, usually we don't
question State court judgments of that kind. Why should
we do so here?
MR. BOUTROUS: We don't have a State court
judgment yet, Your Honor, that -- and we judge the
removal issues and the amount in controversy at the time
of removal. And $5 million is $5 million, Congress drew
the line there. And as Justice Alito was pointing out,
the notices to the absent class members, Congress -- I
was about to say 3a of the addendum to our blue brief,
those are the findings that Congress put into the public
law, number -- letter C: Confusing notices are
published that prevent individuals from exercising their
legitimate rights in -- and enforcing their legitimate
claims.
And it would be ironic in the extreme
if a -- where a statute was enacted to protect -- and
this is in the findings -- "legitimate claims of absent
class members" and to allow them -- the cases to be in
Federal court, if this Court were to hold that a named
plaintiff who doesn't represent those people can come
into court and -- and say we're not going to seek the
full amount of those claims in order to keep the case
out of Federal court.
That would be totally contrary to Congress's
intent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you're
assuming that it's a bad thing for the class members to
have their claims limited. But it may well be a good
thing for them to have their claims limited if that gets
them into what would reasonably be regarded as a more
sympathetic forum.
MR. BOUTROUS: I'm not making a judgment on
that point, Your Honor. It may or may not be, and the
Plaintiff makes this point. Maybe it's better to be in
State court. But for removal purposes only, going back
to just the pure analysis, the question is does the
amount in controversy, when the claims of the individual
class members are aggregated, exceed $5 million? It's
undisputed that that's true. The only basis for saying
it doesn't exceed that amount is the stipulation, which
everyone now agrees has no binding affect whatsoever.
The plaintiffs also argue, concede in their
brief that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Boutrous, I do
think -- you have to be careful about two different uses
of the word "binding." It has no binding effect right
now on an absent class member; they can go out and bring
their own suit. If the -- the named plaintiff is found
to be adequate and the suit goes forward and goes to
judgment, then the stipulation does indeed have binding
effect and -- and you have not been exposed to more than
$5 million.
MR. BOUTROUS: But the question, Your Honor,
is, is it binding in this case on anybody or anything
other than Mr. Knowles?
JUSTICE KAGAN: It's binding -- it is
binding on everybody if there's a finding of adequate
representation and if this goes forward as a class
action; then it's binding and you haven't been exposed.
MR. BOUTROUS: But, Your Honor, again, under
the jurisdictional approach -- and Your Honor cited
St. Paul. St. Paul says that if -- once the amount in
controversy has been established to exceed the amount,
here $5 million, it's on the burden of the parties
seeking to oust jurisdiction to show, to a legal
certainty, that the amount will not go over $5 million.
Your questions and the plaintiff's brief
concede it could well go over $5 million if this class
representative is found inadequate, if another person is
appointed to be the class representative, and therefore,
there is Federal jurisdiction. That's the rule that
plaintiffs say should apply. They don't even -- he does
not even try to suggest that it's legally impossible
that the amount might go over $5 million, and that's the
problem. It's going -- it's an amount that is over
$5 million and these cases, the -- the stipulation is
meant to just keep the case in State court, contrary to
Congress's intent and I will --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What do you do -- in the
language in 1332(d)(1)(D), the term "class members"
means the persons, named or unnamed, who fall within the
definition of the proposed class, the proposed class,
and that's what we have here.
MR. BOUTROUS: That's -- that's what we're
using, Your Honor, for our calculations, the proposed
class, including the narrower time frame that we think
is a manipulation, but nevertheless we've used that and
the amount exceeds $5 million.
And if I could reserve the rest of my time,
Your Honor? Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Frederick?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. FREDERICK: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
Our position is that the stipulation is
binding throughout the "civil action filed by the
putative class representative." I want to focus on the
words "civil action" because there has been no civil
action filed by any -- absent class members.
The only civil action that the district
court is being considered for jurisdiction is the civil
action that has been filed by the putative class
representative. So, if the class is later not
certified, the stipulation would only bind the putative
class representative. If the class is certified --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you -- are you saying
that (6) doesn't apply at this point?
MR. FREDERICK: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because (6) talks about
class action, and it says the duty of the district
court --
MR. FREDERICK: What --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- is to aggregate the
claims of the individual class members.
MR. FREDERICK: And what 1332(d)(1)(B) does,
Justice Kennedy, is define class action in terms of the
civil action that was filed, so long as it was filed
pursuant to Federal Rule 23 or an equivalent State
statute.
What the complaint here does in the prayer
for relief, and in paragraph 11 of the complaint, is to
say that this civil action is not going to be worth more
than $5 million.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you -- I assume
you agree that if at the adequacy hearing, if there ever
is one, and it's demonstrated that well, in fact, the
amount in controversy is $10 million, then you would be
obviously not an adequate representative.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, that would be one
outcome that a State court could come to. A second
outcome could be that at that point, if an alternate
class member comes in and files an intervened complaint
and says, this case really is worth $10 million, at that
point section 1453(b) applies and they can remove to
Federal court.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And they can remove no
matter when that happens; is that right, as a result of
CAFA, because CAFA took off the one year limit?
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or the State court could
find, oh yes, it is -- the claim is worth a lot more
than 5 million, but it's worth that amount to be in this
generous court for these generous juries. And so you're
really not harming these absent plaintiffs because they
ought to want to be here. We've got juries and very
favorable judges. Couldn't it find that?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, what's very clear,
Justice Scalia, is that Congress was not attempting to
address the adequacy of class representation issue when
it decided this statute and enacted it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand it, but -- but
I'm just addressing your point which you blithely say,
if the -- if the representation is inadequate, if indeed
it's worth a lot more, that will be handled. Not
necessarily. The State court could find, and I suspect
this State court would find, that it's worth the money
to be in State court.
MR. FREDERICK: A putative class
representative makes all kinds of strategic judgments
about how best to maximize value for his clients and for
the class. And that entails judgments about whether to
assert various legal theories. Here, and
Mr. Chief Justice, this goes to your very first
question, this complaint renounced a claim for punitive
damages.
But there are some cases out of the Tenth
Circuit, the Frederick case, not associated with me, and
in the Seventh Circuit, the Back Doctors case, they say
essentially if there is a claim for punitive damages you
have to make an estimate for amount in controversy
purposes.
As I understand their theory in -- as they
express it on page 11 of the reply brief, it's very
uncertain as to a case like ours where we have renounced
a claim to punitive damages whether or not a Federal
district court is, nonetheless, supposed to take that
into account.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if you had a
case where a lawyer brings an action in Miller County
and says, I represent -- I want to represent the class
of people with these claims and these claims, whose
names begin with A to K. It turns out that's
$4 million.
Then, in the next county, at the same time,
he files a case saying, I'd like to represent these
people whose names begin L to Z. In each of those
cases, it's $4 million. I take it you don't have any
objection to that?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, my objection would be
at the class certification stage, Mr. Chief Justice,
where the requisite of typicality, numerosity, the
contrivances that are being done are -- are going to
whether or not those represent -- representatives are
adequate. It does not speak to Federal jurisdiction --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the same question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But is a counsel who
proceeds on that basis, is there any reason to question
his adequacy, let's say he's fully representing,
bringing all the claims and all the damages. He's just
decided to break it up from A to K. Somebody from L is
not going to say, well, he's inadequate when he's
representing him just because he could have represented
everybody in the other action.
MR. FREDERICK: I misunderstood, Mr. Chief
Justice. I think that for Federal jurisdiction
purposes, the Court has always had -- that kind of legal
strategy is perfectly appropriate under the master of
the complaint --
JUSTICE BREYER: If so, this is just a
loophole because it swallows up all of Congress's
statute, which is what their problem is, all you have to
do, even if you were less obvious than the Chief
Justice's example, what you do is you -- you file a
complaint, you say it's for $4,900,000; in fact, it's
worth 10 million. But you inform people, unlike
Justice Alito, you figure a way around his problem, you
keep them informed, and you say, it's getting close,
getting close.
And once you are up to $4,800,000, the
others get the word: Stay out of it. And once they
stay out of it, you go ahead with your action and then
those that stayed out of it becomes the subject of a
second action. And if it's for 50 million, then you
have ten actions and then you have 20. So, in fact, all
that is required is a few extra pieces of paper that
will soon become standardized, and a lot of postage
stamps.
And we have 30 or 40 or $50 million cases
being tried in whatever counties Congress liked the
least. I gather they're some in Arkansas. But that
seems to be all behind Justice Scalia's and the Chief
Justice's questions, and I would like to hear a pretty
complete answer on that.
MR. FREDERICK: Sure. Justice Breyer, if
you look at the report that went along with the statute,
what Congress was most concerned about was the situation
where each individual class member would not be able to
exceed $75,000, but there might be a million of them.
And so you might have a million class members, each of
whom had a claim for $50,000, and there was no way to
get that to Federal court because of the Zahn
non-aggregating rule.
Congress was not concerned about having the
master of the complaint altered in this class process;
and, in fact, Congress rejected a proposal that would
lower the amount in controversy for class actions to $2
million because the congressional budget office said, if
you keep it at that low, virtually every class action
will be in Federal court and Congress has not
appropriated additional funds for the Federal courts to
deal with all of the class actions that would occupy
this space.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you
realize, of course, you are on pretty thin ice. You are
talking about a Senate Report and now you are talking
about proposals that weren't enacted. Your -- your
friend on the other side focuses on the statutory
language which tells you how to find out how much is at
stake.
MR. FREDERICK: And I'm telling you that his
focus on the word "claims" is insufficient because there
are no claims by absent members until there is a civil
action that has been filed. And that is why if you look
at the definition of a class action, it is a civil
action that is filed pursuant to one of those rules.
JUSTICE ALITO: Under your argument, the
amount that's demanded seems to be totally meaningless.
Here, we are told that the real amount is only slightly
above the $5 million figure, but I don't think that
makes any difference. So let's say that what was -- you
stipulate you are not going to get more than $5 million,
but really the value of the claim is $50 million.
And you say that's perfectly okay. It will
be dealt with later when the case is -- after the case
has been remanded to the -- to the State courts. Isn't
that right? So the $5 million is just -- just means
nothing.
MR. FREDERICK: No, the 5 million --
JUSTICE ALITO: In practical terms.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, Justice Alito, it
means we have to determine, and the district court has
to determine, whether or not the 5 million has been
satisfied on the basis of the well pleaded complaint and
an aggregation where, as a factual matter and as a
stipulated matter in paragraph 11 of the complaint, the
class representative here said, this case is not worth
more than $5 million.
And we know that that's true because even
under their estimate of all of the class members in the
State of Arkansas, the damages only equal about
$3 million. And so --
JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. But does that matter?
We assume, I think, that the real amount is a little bit
over $5 million. Suppose the real amount is 6 million
or 7 million, 8 million, does it matter where along that
continuum the real amount falls?
MR. FREDERICK: Not so long as there is a
binding stipulation that says so long as this civil
action is in place, it is not going to be worth
$5 million.
JUSTICE BREYER: But what you said then in
response -- we're on the same subject, and I'm drawing
the conclusion from what you say that yes, we've found a
way around this. And what we're going to do is we will
divide our $25 million class action into six subsidiary
actions and proceed exactly the same merry way. And we
do that by means of stipulation.
Now, your words in the statute do favor
that, in my opinion, at the moment. But the purpose
seems to strongly cut the other way. And I do see a way
to go the other way, in that you could say, given the
purpose of this, the words do mean something different,
and they do mean you should aggregate the real value of
the real amounts that the class is likely to have.
Now, it's capable of that reading, and the
virtue of that reading is that it would stop what looks
like, from what you're saying, a mechanical method of
avoiding the purpose of the statute. I say that
explicitly because I really want to make it as much as
possible that you will focus in on what's a response to
that.
MR. FREDERICK: Yes. Well, Justice Breyer,
Congress could have addressed any number of those kinds
of issues with the specific terms that it used, but the
well-pleaded complaint rule and the master of the
complaint rule is a very subtle part of our diversity
jurisdiction. And that is so because we want these
jurisdictional inquiries to be simple, not complicated.
Under their approach, they would take all
the conceivable legal theories that might be brought
over a -- conceivable period of time, and ask the
district court to make very nuanced judgments about --
what --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But what you're saying in
your answer to Justice Breyer -- and I don't think
you've really addressed his point -- that the statute
number 6 says "shall aggregate the individual claim."
What you're saying is that the simplest thing is to
evade the statute. Evasion is simple. And therefore,
we still use that approach because the simplest is the
best.
That just is not responsive to his question.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, Justice Kennedy, let
me try it this way, which is that for the large case,
the one that I gave in my hypothetical where there are a
million class members, and each of them has a claim of
$50,000, we know that prior to CAFA, that case was
staying in State court because of this Court's Zahn
rule.
But that might be a nationwide case. It
might be worth hundreds of millions of dollars in
damages. That was the kind of problem that Congress was
trying to get at. But the case where there's a
stipulation that actually might be meaningful, where the
amount in controversy is debatable as to whether it's
really $5 million, that's the kind of case where
jurisdictional simplicity ought to encourage --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But your theory doesn't
depend on it being just a little over $5 million, the
theory would hold whether it was $8 million,
$9 million --
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct because --
and Justice Ginsburg, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but
that's precisely because we want the ability to make
legal judgments and strategies to reside in the person
who's bringing the complaint.
We don't want --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even though you admit in
your brief -- you agreed that the stipulation -- I
didn't think that this is what you said on page 53, the
stipulations can have no effect on absentees, until the
Court finds at the certification stage that the
stipulation was made in good faith and doesn't render
the named plaintiff an inadequate representative.
But we have to judge removal at the time
removal is made, and at that time, there is no
determination of class. So at the removal stage, the
stipulation is inoperative as to the non-named class
members.
MR. FREDERICK: Not where there are
allegations about what the aggregated damages are about.
That's why -- to address this in the language of the
civil action, those absent class members haven't filed
any lawsuit. We don't really know what claims they
might conceivably bring if they are were to be
hypothesized.
What we do know is that there is a civil
action, it has been filed by a putative class
representative, that putative class representative in
good faith, the district court found had acted in good
faith in stipulating to a lower amount than
$5 million -- and the question is should that be given
legal effect, where everybody knows it will be binding
if the class is certified, and it will be binding on the
class representative if the class is not certified.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose this were an
individual action, and the amount is -- the amount is
pled -- an individual diversity action -- and the amount
that is pled is under $75,000. The defendant still can
remove the case and prove that the amount is really
higher than that because the practice of the State in
question is to allow a recovery that is over $75,000.
So why shouldn't the same approach apply here?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, you were referring to
a statute, Justice Alito, that was recently enacted, in
which it does say that the presumption shall be that the
amount pleaded in the complaint is subject to disproval.
But that's reversing 200 -- well, 100-plus years of
settled removal law, after the reforms of the 1870s
created the removal jurisdiction the way it is more
currently constructed.
And so in that interregnum between the 1870s
and that statute passed just a couple of years ago, the
rule was well-settled that the individual case pleading
amount was fine. And under St. Paul Mercury, if there
was a stipulation that had been filed contemporaneously
with the complaint or prior to removal, that that would
be given legal effect.
Here, the stipulation was filed with the
complaint. There is no doubt that this was done in good
faith. The district court found that -- and I don't
think that's really an even arguable proposition here,
where they were asserting a 40 percent attorney's fee on
this -- and so really the question is, where you have an
aggregated estimate, should that be given legal effect.
JUSTICE ALITO: Wouldn't it be perverse if
the rule were that in an individual action where a
plaintiff is simply stipulating how much he or she is
demanding -- individually -- which the person can do,
it's possible to look behind that number.
But in a class action where the named
Plaintiff is purporting to make a stipulation on behalf
of absent class members as to whom the named plaintiff
at that point has absolutely no authority, you can't
look behind the number --
MR. FREDERICK: Well, as a policy matter, we
might have a debate about the various virtues of that,
but they were not enacted in the same piece of
legislation.
So what we do know is that for CAFA,
Congress had not adopted the rule that you're positing.
Nonetheless, we do not attempt to argue that they have
no basis for making arguments about amount of
controversy when they remove, but it is subject to the
rule that a binding stipulation shall be given binding
effect in the civil action that has been filed. And if
that is later proved to be inadequate --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How is it binding when
you said in your brief it doesn't bind the unnamed class
members?
MR. FREDERICK: Justice Ginsburg, this is
important that you and I understand each other on this
point because it is binding in the civil action filed
for all purposes. So whoever is covered by that civil
action will forever be bound by the $5 million
stipulation.
What we do not know is who will be members
of that class until the certification hearing is done.
Whoever ends up being covered by that civil action will
forever be bound by that stipulation. That is what the
district court knows.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ask you this? Because
I have been trying to figure out exactly what
Mr. Boutrous is concerned about. And one thing he might
be concerned about is that, notwithstanding that the
class has really claims for $20 million, the thing is
going to be certified for $5 million, and all these
absent class members are -- are being deprived of
something meaningful to them.
But that's something which -- you know
usually, we assume that State court judges will do their
jobs, will pay attention to the Constitution, will apply
adequacy of representation standards that come from the
due process clause. So that seems like a strange thing
to worry about in interpreting this Federal statute.
The other possibility is that he might be
worried that this stipulation won't be really as binding
as you say, that in a case in which there is an adequacy
of representation determination made, the class goes
forward, and then things work out and it really looks
like all these absent class members are going to get --
you know, badly treated.
He's going to tear this stipulation up or do
something like that. And it's going to be way down the
line. And why should we allow that to happen?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, for two reasons,
because there are protections that are in the statute
that protect both defendants and absent class members.
And the protection for the absent class members is it
that if that stipulation is insufficient to adequately
represent their interests, the district court, the trial
court and State court will not certify the class.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But this is -- he's done the
certification, now it turns out that the certification
was wrong, that in fact, these claims are worth a good
deal more. And he says, I can't in good faith allow all
these people's claims to be adjudicated for this amount
of money when I know they're worth five times as much.
MR. FREDERICK: And -- and as a matter of
judicial estoppel, what is absolutely clear in every
State that I am familiar with is that it follows this
Court's basic formula in New Hampshire v. Maine, which
looks at whether or not a change in position would
prejudice the interests of the other party if the Court
had relied on the original position of the litigant, and
that will estop that person.
Now, it may -- it may well be that there are
due process issues associated with class representative
and the adequacy of a class representative is a
continuing concern throughout a litigation precisely
because of due process concerns.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Another thing he
might be worried about is that if this action is
allowed to proceed, although on its face it's worth
$4 million, they're going to have to make a
determination whether to settle for a particular amount
or not.
And if they make a determination that
they've got to settle for whatever it is, 20 -- you
know, $20 per class member, that is going to set the
limit for other classes, including the class members who
opt out of this action, the class members from Missouri.
And the point is that, for a variety of
reasons, that this gives extraordinary leverage to the
individual class representative of a sort that --
precisely the sort that Congress was worried about.
MR. FREDERICK: Actually, I think
Mr. Chief Justice, with all due respect, the economic
incentives are completely reversed because if a class
representative is bound by a stipulation that this case
is not worth than $5 million, the bidding starts at 5
million, but it goes down, it doesn't go north because
the defendant knows that no matter whether we go to
trial or not, this case, this case -- this civil action
is only going to be worth $5 million.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's going to be
worth a lot more because, if you go to trial, you're
going to have a judgment that they should have been
giving the general contractor whatever --
MR. FREDERICK: GCOP.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- pickup it is in
every case. And so that is going to be extremely
valuable. It's going to be worth a lot more -- but the
downside, it's going to be a lot more than $5 million.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, certainly,
Mr. Chief Justice, Congress could have drafted a statute
that allowed for the removal of every State class action
and dealt with that issue if it was deemed appropriate
to have Federal courts decide all class actions, but
that wasn't the statute that Congress enacted. And
Congress also could have expressed concerns and
difficulty with this idea of having the Master of the
Complaint Rule applied in the class action context, but
it didn't address that either.
And so when Congress is only addressing a
very narrow problem of dealing with the non-aggregation
principle so that class actions that were worth more
than $5 million would be allowed to be removed to
Federal court, I don't think it would be appropriate for
the Court to try to infer a larger set of --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's very
difficult -- one reason, it's very difficult to
speculate about Congress, what they speculate about what
they would have intended. Presumably, they may not have
thought about the idea that there will be class actions
worth a lot more than $5 million, but the plaintiff's
lawyer will only ask for less than $5 million.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, these kinds of
stipulations are well known and in fact, as we quote on,
I think it's page 5 of our brief, Congress was aware of
factual stipulations. They concede in their reply brief
that it's perfectly fine for their to be a joint
stipulation between the putative class representative
and the defendants.
And, yet, I would think that that would
raise even more problems and concerns by you because
that would lead to the kind of collusion between a
putative class representative and the defendant without
knowing what the other interests of the absent class
members are.
And so here, where a good faith effort is
made to quantify the aggregate claims and that good
faith effort leads to the stipulation that the case will
not be worth more than $5 million, the interests of
jurisdictional simplicity, the interest of fairness to
the class members, the interest of understanding what
the civil action is all about so that the defendant is
on notice about what will be claimed in this civil
action are all things that should be given respect.
JUSTICE BREYER: What about -- what about,
has anyone thought of this -- I hate to bring up sort of
a new idea, but somebody may have thought of it.
Imagine we're now in the Federal district court. And
the Federal district court reads the statute because the
case has just been removed. And he says -- you know,
this -- this case would be worth a lot more than 5
million were it not for that stipulation.
And let now me look at that stipulation.
That stipulation is a part of some, let's call it,
"monkey business," which you will resist that, but I
mean by that to -- to encompass the kinds of things
we've been talking about, that there are going to be
five similar class actions, that they're going to take
the people A through K, that they're going to --
anything like that.
And he says that's not under this statute
the kind of stipulation that Congress meant to bar my
consideration of the $5 million. So if it's a
manipulative stipulation, whatever that might be, it
doesn't bar me as the district judge from aggregating up
to -- beyond 5 million, but if it's not manipulative,
fine. Has there -- has there been any thought on that
kind of --
MR. FREDERICK: Well, there are two tools
that -- that we describe in our brief and that I think
are reasonable ways that Federal courts address these
matters. One is to look at whether or not it violates
Rule 11 and there are -- there's a frivolous assertion
of a stipulation, which Federal district judges deal
with Rule 11 motions all the time.
The second is the concept of good faith,
which is what St. Paul Mercury addressed when it said
that a stipulation for less than the jurisdictional
amount, if made in good faith, is something that will be
treated as dispositive for jurisdictional purposes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Justice Breyer's
hypothetical would not come up on your theory because
the Federal court would never get the chance to make
that determination. It would be made in the State
court.
MR. FREDERICK: No. If I'm understanding
Justice Breyer's hypothetical, it's at the amount of
controversy stage and so there is litigation at that
stage and the defendant presumably would bring to the
judge's attention, I think this is being done in bad
faith and I have these arguments for why this is
deceiting -- deceitful, misleading, et cetera.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So would that include the
I'm suing for two years when I could have sued for five?
MR. FREDERICK: No, I don't think so because
there are lots of tactical reasons why litigants might
want to limit their claims or might have a good faith
basis for saying, I've only investigated this time
period, I do not have a good faith basis for asserting
claims in a different time period that I have not
investigated that does not serve the court.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, but there might be --
there might be ways of working with this notion, a
little risky from your point of view, but there might be
ways of working with this good faith notion so that
some -- there would be some power in the Federal
district court to set aside certain stipulations which
were used for manipulative purposes and what the definition
of that manipulative is something that isn't clear to -- to
me at the moment. But --
MR. FREDERICK: Well, the -- the -- the
notion that I have distilled from St. Paul Mercury and
the idea of good faith and looking at cases that have
addressed bad faith, which is obviously the converse of
good faith, is whether or not there is something
misleading or deceitful in the way that this stipulation
would be framed. And I think that that is as good a
guidance as I can give you absent briefing.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it would never
involve a judgment that a claim is really worth
$50 million and just to defeat this statute, it's being
limited to 5.
MR. FREDERICK: There -- there could be a
strategic reason, Justice Sotomayor, why --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the only strategic
reason according to your adversary is they want to stay
in State court.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, but there are reasons
because, in Arkansas, for instance, there is a direct
appeal for the State supreme court. We could finish
this case in many fewer years than it would take to wind
its way up through the Eighth Circuit and up to this
Court. That is one salutary reason.
The second is we're talking about State law
claims that are breach of contract claims for a
State-regulated industry. The State insurance board
would be looking at how State insurance is done here.
So there are very good reasons why a -- why a lawyer
would want this case to be in State court and not want
it to be removed to Federal court wholly apart from the
ad hominem attacks that they make about Miller County,
which were not brought to Congress's attention and in
fact are false.
As we have put into amicus briefs, it is
false. The arguments that they talk about abuse involve
all cases that predated CAFA.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why did you decide
to file in Miller County?
MR. FREDERICK: Because these are Texarkana
lawyers who filed on behalf of all Arkansas residents
and Texarkana, Arkansas is a jurisdiction in Arkansas.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Frederick, your
answer just doesn't deal with the component that's been
troubling, which is that it doesn't protect the absent
class members. In situations like the one Justice Alito
or the point Justice Alito made, which is they don't
really know how much the entire quantity of the class
might truly be, and who's protecting them --
MR. FREDERICK: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- if it would go your
way?
MR. FREDERICK: Sure. In his hypothetical,
that's true under Federal rules, too. If you're
applying Federal Rule 23 and you have a large number of
class members and the case gets settled for X dollars,
the individual class member is held to the duty of
deciding whether to opt out because that individual
class member thinks I may have been able to get more
than what is being offered in this class settlement or
to attack the adequacy of the representation because the
aggregate amount is not high enough.
It's a problem that applies in both Federal
and in State court. It's not unique to State court at
all.
If the Court has no further questions, we'll
submit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Boutrous, you have four minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BOUTROUS: Thank you, Your Honor. Let
me just start with the concerns that I have and I think
they're best expressed and encapsulated in two of the
friend-of-the-court briefs, the Manufactured Housing
Institute brief and the 21st Century brief. They
explain what has been happening in Miller County. It's
not speedy justice. It takes five or six years to get a
hearing on anything and then there's no hearing, even on
class certification.
And that's why, Justice Kagan, it's cold,
cold comfort to say maybe somebody day the Court will find
this is an inadequate class member or class
representative. It does not solve the problem that
Congress sought to address.
With respect to Mr. Fredrick's suggestion
that this stipulation is binding in this case forever
and all-time on anybody who's in the case, his own brief
on page 41 says, it might well be that another class
representative might get appointed and the stipulation
might be invalidated because it's -- it's an unfair
stipulation and not valid for the class.
That new class representative could come in
and say, we are not going to be bound by this $5 million
number. That's not the amount in controversy.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why can't the case be
removed at that moment?
MR. BOUTROUS: Well, it theoretically could
be, Your Honor, but that won't solve the problem of
discovery. That goes back ten years in a case that's
supposed to be about two years. It won't solve the
problem of --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Boutrous -- you know, a
lot of your brief talks about this problem of discovery.
And it -- it may very well be that there is a
significant one, I don't know, but when you look at
CAFA, I mean, CAFA did a lot of things. And it did not
address this problem that you have with discovery.
There could be -- I can give you -- you know, ten
different proposals that would enable you to bypass
expensive discovery, but CAFA didn't do any of them.
And this is a kind of a jerry-rigged
solution to get at a problem that Congress, in fact, did
not address.
MR. BOUTROUS: That's incorrect, Your Honor.
First, Congress knew what was going on in State courts
and wanted swift removal in a simple way for defendants
to protect defendants and absent class members because
it knew what was going on. There wasn't these
protections. The Federal rules provide protection
against discovery.
This Court in Twombly said one of the
reasons is speedy motion to dismiss, and a strong
standard is necessary as to avoid discovery that is
burdensome, that coerces settlements that don't relate
to the merits. So Congress knew it was bringing cases
into the Federal system for precisely that reason.
And on this master of complaint point,
Mr. Frederick is simply incorrect on this point.
St. Paul wasn't a master of the complaint case, it said
the plaintiff can limit the amount that he wants to
seek. The master of the complaint doctrine has never,
ever been applied by this Court where an unappointed
named plaintiff, who's not been appointed to represent
people, seeks to try to alter the claims and judgments
of other people and the rights of them to recover.
It's usually been applied in the arising
under contexts. Where the Court has said if a plaintiff
wants to bring a State claim, they can. We are not
going to force them to bring a Federal claim.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Boutrous, the idea of
master of the complaint is inherent in every class
litigation because there could be no class actions,
there could be no definition of anything, of the claims,
of the amount of damages, of the number of defendants,
of the amount of time unless the plaintiff, the named
plaintiff, had some ability to define the claim.
And this is just one aspect of that larger
power.
MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, on the amount in
controversy, this Court has never held, in a class
action or otherwise, that that's something that's
subject to the well pleaded complaint rule or the master
of the complaint doctrine. The court in the Hertz case
and in the McNutt case, which it cites, said the Court
should look past what the pleadings say.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. Then you really are
asking us to blow up the whole world.
MR. BOUTROUS: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Because you're saying: Next
time we will be back and tell you that the named
plaintiff can't define the clans. Next time we are
going to be back and tell you that they can't name the
defendants.
MR. BOUTROUS: No, Your Honor. May I
answer, Your Honor?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: (Nods.)
MR. BOUTROUS: We are asking the Court to
apply the same rules on this score that the Court has
always applied, that when the complaint claims one
amount, the defendant can bring forth proof that it's a
larger amount, that it exceeds the amount in controversy
and the Court looks at the competent proof, that's the
language the Court used in the Hertz case, to determine
the actual amount in controversy, not some jerry-rigged
amount the plaintiffs came up with.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
18:18 55:9 aggregating 37:21 38:2,2,3 arguable 39:2
added 12:24 aggregation 39:23 42:2,21 18:20 23:20
55:15 addendum 33:14 52:4 53:15 arguing 4:9
10:4 11:18 addition 16:18 agree 15:24 27:5 55:6,9,10 argument 1:13
20:8 additional 32:5 agreed 36:24 amounts 34:19 2:2,5,8 3:4,7
23:25 address 28:4 agrees 23:19 analysis 23:14 7:8 9:24 10:7
27:24 37:12 44:9 ahead 31:1 Angeles 1:16 10:13 14:1,15
37:13 46:21 51:19 Alito 17:19 18:1 answer 9:8 18:22 25:21
40:23 52:17,23 18:2 20:5 31:13 35:15 32:21 51:4
addressed 35:3 22:10 30:21 50:3 54:25 arguments
48:18 35:16 47:2 32:21 33:9,10 answered 6:16 39:23 47:16
53:2 48:14 33:22 38:1,10 anti-aggregati... 49:20
42:5 adequacy 21:5 5:11,13 15:25 anti-Zahn 14:21 6:4 20:6 31:10
8:2 adequate 5:5 6:8 22:21 38:7 apart 49:15 asked 9:6,14,16
22:2 24:2,10 allowed 42:19 APPEARAN... asking 12:12
12:6,25 adjudicated alter 53:19 53:17,21 55:4 asserting 39:3
20:7 42:2 altered 31:24 applies 5:24 47:24
26:1,3,4 admission 17:4 alternate 27:11 14:10 27:14 assertion 46:23
admit 36:23 alternative 9:24 50:22 associated 28:22
27:2 adopted 39:21 amended 18:5 apply 5:15,22,23 42:13
30:8 31:1 adversary 49:1 amicus 49:19 21:15 24:25 assume 17:3
32:3,18 advocating 18:3 amount 3:16,22 26:12 38:8 27:4 33:23
34:4 affect 10:17,20 4:1,15,16 5:10 41:2 55:3 41:1
37:13,18 11:17 16:14 6:2 7:22 10:1 applying 19:22 assuming 23:5
39:7,11 23:19 13:12,24 14:7 21:12 50:14 attack 50:20
aggregate 3:17 14:8 15:18 appointed 24:23 attacks 49:16
43:2,14 7:13 13:7,12 16:5,8 17:9,12 51:24 53:18 attempt 39:22
45:17 13:19,22 14:7 18:6,8,11,18 approach 13:6 attempting 28:3
54:11 26:18 34:18 22:8,25 23:15 16:22 18:3 attention 41:2
31:4 50:21 24:19 25:2,3 38:8 attorney's 39:3
34:11 aggregated 13:2 25:16 27:7,22 appropriate authority 39:14
13:4 19:9 28:25 32:1,22 30:12 44:3,14 avoid 53:8
15:4 bound 21:19 55:5 45:13,25 46:1 32:8 42:17
23:13 40:10,15 43:10 bringing 30:4 49:6,14 50:15 43:8,16,21
52:9 52:3 36:21 53:10 51:21,22 52:5 44:1,16 49:22
Boutrous 1:16 brings 5:25 29:9 52:9 53:14 51:2 55:1,12
4:8 5:7,19,23 17:17 35:10 55:13,14 Circuit 28:22,23
17:13 11:21 12:21 53:9 49:21 53:10 26:3,3,5,6,22
39:23 16:11 17:6 central 10:6 40:1,8,9,14
18:12 19:3,11 C Century 51:10 43:14 45:17,18
3:8 23:10,22 24:6 CAFA 3:12 48:7 9:2,4,13,13,14
25:22 24:13 25:12 12:24 18:13 certainly 43:25 9:19,20 10:25
49:25 40:19 51:3,4,6 27:18,18 36:2 certainty 24:19 17:16 20:10,15
52:7,12,24 39:20 49:21 certification 6:6 27:21 28:19,24
28:15 breach 49:10 calculations 15:6 19:2,13 36:1 48:20
51:8 break 30:5 25:13 19:25 20:24,24 53:23,24 54:6
40:4 34:6 35:2,15 care 12:12 10:9,12 18:25 10:17,20 11:12
18:21,23 Breyer's 47:6,12 case 3:4,24 4:6 37:24,25 40:22 13:24 14:5,12
19:1,6 brief 3:19 7:9 4:17 5:16,25 certify 6:11 15:13 17:13
21:3 20:22 22:12 6:11 7:4,5,24 41:22 19:8 21:21
23:21 24:20 9:18 11:2 cetera 12:4,9 22:17,20,25
29:3 36:24 13:16,17 15:7 47:17 23:6,7,15
34:3 40:4 44:25 15:8 16:4 18:8 challenges 7:15 26:19 29:11,11
39:25 45:1 46:20 18:25 19:16 chance 47:8 30:4 32:16,17
40:3,8 51:10,10,22 20:5 21:24 change 42:8 37:14 40:21
51:21 52:13 22:25 24:7 charged 19:15 41:25 42:2
53:19 clause 21:20 conceded 11:10 38:21 11:11,25 12:6
55:4 41:4 conceivable context 44:8 12:13 14:13,24
42:5 48:9 37:15 42:15 20:6,25 21:4,8
4:3 clients 28:15 concern 20:23 contract 49:10 22:4,6,22,22
5:3 6:6,7 close 30:22,23 21:7 42:15 contractor 22:24 23:1,13
coerces 53:9 concerned 6:14 43:19 25:5,24 26:6
cold 51:15,16 7:1,20 8:3,7,9 contrary 23:2 26:16 27:10,15
9:10 collect 6:1 21:11,11,16 25:5 27:20,23 28:10
collusion 45:7 31:16,23 40:19 contrivances 28:11,12 29:6
come 6:1,3,20 40:20 29:22 30:11 31:21
13:1,20 14:24 22:23 concerns 42:16 control 8:22 32:4 33:11
18:23,24 27:10 41:3 44:6 45:6 51:7 13:13 14:11 35:12 36:3
20:2
52:2 conclusion 34:8 controlling 18:7 37:2,20 39:1
comes 27:12 Confusing 22:14 controls 15:24 40:16 41:1,21
comfort 51:16 Congress 3:11 controversy 41:22,22 42:9
23:5 commerce 21:14 3:16 6:13,25 3:17 4:15 7:22 44:14,15 45:23
24:11 Company 1:4 7:18,20,23 8:2 8:11 10:1 12:2 45:24 47:8,10
25:8 3:5 8:7,9,25 12:24 12:7 16:5,8 48:1,7 49:2,5,8
competent 13:11 14:5,10 17:9 18:18 49:14,15 50:23
16:15 55:7 14:13,15,16 22:8 23:15 50:23,25 51:16
complaint 4:11 19:18 21:10,16 24:16 27:7 53:6,17,22
28:4,13 5:12 8:16 22:9,11,13 28:25 32:1 54:10,13,14
29:10,20 14:18,19 15:24 28:3 31:9,16 36:10 39:24 55:2,3,7,8
17:11 31:23,25 32:4 47:13 52:4 courts 3:17 4:13
18:6,9 20:4 35:3 36:7 54:10 55:6,9 4:18 5:9 7:21
34:10 26:25 27:1,12 39:21 43:6 converse 48:14 17:10 18:20
36:1 28:19 30:13,19 44:1,5,6,10,18 correct 5:19 19:4,22,22
33:13,15 44:25 46:12 27:19 36:17 21:12 32:5
36:21 51:19 52:22,25 costs 12:3,8 33:5 44:4
40:4
53:10 counsel 6:8 46:21 52:25
44:8 53:12,14 congressional 25:19 30:1 Court's 16:12
53:16 54:1,12 32:2 32:8 51:2 36:3 42:7
42:13,14 54:13 55:4 Congress's 3:20 55:12 covered 40:9,14
43:1,2,5 complete 8:13 23:2 25:6 count 13:6 created 38:15
44:2,4,8 31:13 30:15 49:17 counties 31:9 currently 38:16
45:3 completely 43:9 consideration county 3:15 7:25 cut 4:25 34:15
46:8 complicated 46:13 19:23 29:9,14
35:8 considered 26:6 49:16,23 51:11 D
51:14 component 50:3 Constitution couple 38:18
53:2 20:10,16 construct 15:7 court 1:1,13
45:1 contemporane... 6:23 9:9,18 15:12 17:2
29:5 demanding 39:9 46:15,24 48:7 encompass 46:6 excuse 7:19
33:20 demonstrated diversity 3:12 encourage 36:12 exercising 22:15
37:11 27:6 5:9,16,17 8:13 ends 40:14 exists 19:4
depend 20:16 19:21 35:6 enforced 17:9 expand 3:12
deprived 40:23 divide 34:10 enforcing 22:16 expensive 52:20
desires 8:22 doctrine 53:16 entails 28:16 explicitly 4:13
42:1 determination doing 12:19,20 entered 7:16 exposed 24:4,12
50:3 21:8 37:7 41:9 15:21,22 19:23 entire 21:2 50:7 express 3:20
16:8 drawing 34:7 essentially 28:24 43:4
18:2 32:25 21:20 41:4 estimate 28:25 43:22
49:22 different 4:3 6:3 42:13,16 43:8 33:19 39:5
30:5 34:17 47:25 50:16 estoppel 17:5 face 42:19
difficult 44:17 et 12:3,8 47:17 30:19 31:4,25
38:4 directed 3:16 effect 15:18 37:23 factual 5:11,13
45:8,17 discovery 7:3,4 23:24 24:4 evidence 17:14 15:25 33:14
55:5 7:6 20:1,3 52:9 37:1,23 38:23 17:15 18:17 45:1
15:16 53:5,8 effort 45:11,13 10:22 11:16 fairness 3:11
45:4 discussion 17:22 Eighth 49:7 18:12 20:6,20 45:15
54:4,23 dismiss 53:7 either 44:9 34:11 40:18 faith 37:3,20,21
47:5 8:16 7:24 30:18 45:11,13 47:1
48:8 district 11:11,25 enable 52:19 31:18 fall 25:9
12:5 16:3 enacted 3:11 exceeds 4:15 falls 34:1
29:6 33:11 32:11 38:10 18:11 19:8 familiar 42:6
18:6,9 39:1 40:16 encapsulated excessive 5:18 favor 34:13
41:21 45:23,24 51:8 exclusive 12:3,8 favorable 28:1
11:13 32:16 34:25 14:23 17:3 20:15 27:5 40:13
19:4 focuses 10:15 funds 32:5 21:4,5,20,22 51:13,13
21:8 32:12 further 50:25 22:24 23:13 held 50:16 54:10
23:1 follows 42:6 25:3 27:2 Hertz 16:12
26:23 force 53:24 G 29:22 30:6 54:13 55:8
29:5,24 forever 40:10,15 G 3:1 33:1 34:4,9 high 50:21
31:21 51:21 gather 31:10 40:22 41:11,13
41:5 form 14:14 GCOP 43:20 41:14 42:20,25
45:23 formula 42:7 general 18:4 43:15,16,18,22
46:21,24 forth 4:25 55:5 43:19 43:23,24 46:7 13:19
48:6 forum 23:9 generous 27:23 46:8,9 52:3,25
50:13,14 forward 15:9 27:23 53:3,24 54:22
53:4,11 24:2,11 41:10 getting 7:10 good 23:6 37:3 5:19,24 6:14
found 11:11 13:11 14:18 37:20,20 38:256:19 7:19 8:20
40:18 frame 25:14 36:13,18,23 49:13 19:17 20:21
Frederick 1:18 Ginsburg's greater 7:12 23:11 24:6,13
32:18,20 25:23 26:13,17 give 6:2 48:18 GREG 1:7 51:6 52:8,24
38:21 26:20 27:9,19 52:18 grossly 6:10 54:9,18,24,25
40:1,8 28:2,13,22 given 12:14,15 7:11,16 Housing 51:9
29:19 30:9 19:11 34:16 guess 8:17 hundreds 17:10
28:1,10 35:2,23 36:17 gives 43:4 H 37:16
32:13 37:10 38:9 giving 21:21 half 22:1 hypothetical
39:16 40:6 43:19 Hampshire 42:7 35:25 47:7,12
43:7,20,25 11:6,20 15:1,9 handled 20:6
22:13,20 47:11,20 48:11 23:25 24:19,21 happen 7:8 ice 32:9
53:13 43:17 50:10 10:24 16:17 53:25
12:10,14 friend-of-the-... 28:18 41:9 happily 11:1 Imagine 45:23
52:25 51:9 43:12 52:9 harming 27:24 important 12:22
47:19 full 3:19 22:25 6:10,18 7:7 hear 3:3 31:12 impossible 25:1
fully 30:3 10:3 11:5 heard 19:25 inadequate 6:17
28:8 interpreted 9:18 23:10 24:3 40:3,6,17 40:12,25 41:12
37:4 40:2 interpreting 43:18 48:20 41:23 42:17 42:3,25 45:25
41:5 judgments 22:4 43:8,16,21 50:7 52:12,15
interrupt 36:18 judicial 17:5 48:2,19,24,25 Knowles 1:7 3:5
43:1 intervened juries 27:23,25 50:10 51:2,12 14:24 15:3
invalidated 3:13 6:2 11:14 53:25 54:16,19 known 44:24
5:20,25 investigated 16:14,14,20,21 Justice's 15:5 40:16 43:13
10:2 47:23 48:1 19:4,5,21 30:18 31:12
11:12 involve 48:20 24:18,24 26:6 L
49:20 29:24 30:10 K L 29:16 30:5
19:9 involved 18:11 35:7 38:15 K 29:12 30:5 lack 8:3
26:19 ironic 22:18 50:1 46:9 language 13:4
35:17 issue 4:1 13:9,25jurisdictional Kagan 8:6 9:1 25:8 32:13
39:7 14:23 28:4 18:9,11 24:14 9:12 10:19,23 37:12 55:8
50:16,17 44:3 35:8 36:12 14:14 15:4 large 35:24
42:13 justice 3:3,9,25 21:16 23:22 larger 44:15
22:15 6:5,16,22 7:6 40:17 41:23 law 9:15 19:16
41:20 JR 1:16 2:3,9 25:7,19,24 30:11 36:7,11 leeway 18:13
49:11,12 judge 6:10 19:5 27:4,16,20 52:21 28:17 30:11
46:15 29:20,25 30:1 44:23 46:6 37:23 38:23
judge's 47:15 32:21 33:9,10 know 7:17 8:8 legislation 39:19
42:9 judgment 11:4,7 35:2,14,15,23 20:12,19 21:2 22:16,16,20
18:25 19:2,14 36:13,18,23 33:18 36:2 letter 22:14
30:3 lower 17:10 25:5 46:12 33:6,8,12,17 negligence
46:4 18:20 32:1 mechanical 33:21,24,24,25 15:14
43:1 making 23:10 31:17 42:25 42:20 43:11,12 nevertheless
53:15 39:23 50:16,18 51:17 43:15,24 44:13 25:15
17:16 manipulation 7:10 8:5,24 48:21 52:3 Nods 55:1
16:13 25:15 10:4,16 11:12 millions 36:6 non-aggregati...
23:6,7 7:21 20:8,17 21:6 misleading non-aggregati...
manipulative 22:11,21 23:5 47:17 48:16 44:11
54:2 51:9 39:13 40:5,12 48:10 52:6 noted 19:19
48:4 10:18 14:17,19 41:19 43:1,2 money 14:25 45:18
35:5 44:7 50:15 53:2 monkey 46:5 notified 20:11
8:8 11:24 54:1,12 47:2 48:12 motions 46:25 notion 10:8 48:3
13:17 matter 1:12 8:11 merits 8:1 53:10 48:5,12
17:11 12:2 27:17 merry 34:11 N notwithstandi...
31:15 33:14,15,22,25 met 18:15 N 2:1,1 3:1 40:20
39:10,15 39:16 42:4 method 34:22 name 54:22 nuanced 35:12
52:15 43:13 55:15 Miller 3:15 7:25 named 10:2,8 number 22:14
matters 46:22 19:23 29:9 11:16 13:13 35:3,17 39:10
48:13 maximum 5:10 million 4:5 5:6 21:1 22:22 52:4 54:4
17:12 6:21 10:3,25 24:1 25:9 37:4 numerosity
42:8 mean 6:9 9:3,3,5 16:25 17:17 54:5,20
34:17,18 46:6 19:8,14,15 names 29:12,16 O
28:9 meaningless 24:19,21 25:2 nationwide 36:5 objects 13:23
43:17,23 32:22 25:4,16 27:3,7 necessarily 4:8 obtain 9:9
44:21 means 11:13 27:13,22 29:13 18:7 28:10 obtained 19:7
52:13,16 19:3 25:9 33:6 29:17 30:20 necessary 4:16 obvious 30:17
pass 13:15,18,21 plaintiffs 7:12 11:6 22:19 41:18
38:18 21:21 23:20 prejudice 42:9 protecting 50:8
54:16 48:12 53:14 play 4:19 38:11 53:4
people 10:12 38:12 54:12 32:9 38:5
50:17 33:3 45:2 38:3,4 38:22 punitive 4:12,14
25:21 20:1,2 35:11 8:7,18 11:15 25:3 30:16,21 pure 23:14
11:6 24:22 28:7 35:16 52:8,11,13,17 purpose 34:14
42:11 43:3 48:4 50:6 problems 6:13 purposes 23:13
39:6 points 8:23 42:19 pursuant 26:23
2:4,10 3:8 positing 39:21 19:13,14 30:2 put 17:15 18:16
29:3 pieces 16:20 25:25 42:8,10 42:13,16 26:9 28:13
44:25 31:5 possibility 41:6 professor's 9:15 37:18,19 45:3
pillars 19:20 possible 34:25 proof 16:15 45:8
10:2,8 11:9,16 postage 31:6 proposal 31:25 Q
12:16,22 15:6,21 17:12 48:6 54:8 52:19 quantity 50:7
35:6 17:18 18:19 practical 33:9 proposed 25:10 question 3:23
21:1 22:23 practice 38:6 25:10,13 4:23 10:1 11:3
39:13 53:15,18 42:15 43:6 protect 3:13 6:6 21:3,17 22:4
24:6 record 11:12 3:23 4:7 5:4 14:17,18 24:15 26:15
29:25 recover 5:3,11 6:20 21:23 right 5:18 9:21 27:13 29:10
35:22 53:20 22:3 24:22,23 10:15 18:13 34:3 35:17
38:7 recovered 4:14 26:2,8,10 27:8 20:21 23:24 42:1 45:25
recovery 9:21 28:14 33:16 27:17 33:6 46:11 51:23
50:25 referring 38:9 42:13,14 43:5 53:20 27:20 28:3,6
regarding 9:20 representatives 3:25 4:20 second 12:15
relate 53:9 represented 23:4 25:19 47:1 49:9
23:13 37:5,6,7 requisite 29:21 24:24 26:23 16:24 24:18
34:1 remove 27:14,16 residents 49:25 39:7,21,25 8:7 32:10
38:5 39:24 resist 46:5 44:8 46:23,25 seniority 18:1
45:25 49:15 51:20 32:20 50:13 set 42:25 44:15
33:2 52:6 Respondent 53:4 55:3 48:7
35:16 render 37:3 1:19 2:7 25:22 ruling 8:1 settle 42:21,24
37:14 renounced response 34:7 settled 38:14
39:2,4 28:19 29:4 34:25 S 50:15
41:7,10 reply 29:3 45:1 responsible S 2:1 3:1 settlement 7:16
50:7 report 7:2,23 16:25 salutary 49:8 50:19
8:7 31:15 responsive satisfied 16:6 settlements 53:9
48:24 represent 6:4 rest 25:17 saying 4:17 5:2 show 24:18
53:11 9:10 10:9,10 resting 8:19 9:24 21:1 showed 19:7
29:10,10,15,23 19:21 29:15 34:22 sign 16:13
47:21 21:5 24:11 reversal 3:24 says 11:9,25 silent 9:25
53:7 28:4,8 41:3,9 reversed 43:9 12:5,11,25 similar 46:8
51:4 representative rid 13:11,16,20 15:1 19:12 53:1
37:7 47:13,14 stayed 31:2 34:10 telling 15:20
stamps 31:7 stipulate 10:5 subtle 35:6 tells 32:13
53:13 standard 1:3 3:4 stipulated 33:15 sued 47:19 Tenth 28:21
21:4,12,19,20 38:21,24 39:12 suppose 20:12 25:23 51:2,6
51:16 25:5 26:23 41:7,13,20 supposed 29:6 THEODORE
33:20 36:3 46:24 47:3 20:6 49:5 theoretically
42:6 44:2 47:9 52:1 50:12 theories 28:17
7:6 49:14 50:23,23 16:19 19:12 suspect 28:10 theory 29:2
17:21,24 52:25 53:23 37:1 44:24 swallows 30:15 36:13,15 47:7
States 1:1,13 45:1 48:7 swift 53:1 thin 32:9
52:5 State's 19:16 stop 15:20,22 sympathetic thing 8:15,19
14:7 49:11 stopped 12:19 system 53:11 13:6 20:25
statute 3:21 4:23 stops 12:20 23:5,7 35:18
9:25 10:7,15 48:24,25 tactical 47:21 things 8:9,10
28:5 30:16 subject 31:2 takes 51:12 think 8:20 9:3,3
35:16,19 38:10 39:24 54:12 talking 32:10,10 19:10 21:8
15:1 44:1,5 45:24 submitted 55:13 talks 7:23 26:14 30:10 32:24
38:20 46:11 48:21 55:15 52:13 33:23 35:15
48:12 statutory 32:12 subsection tear 41:13 36:25 39:2
stay 30:25 31:1 12:25 tell 20:14 54:20 43:7 44:14,25
46:20 51:8 52:10 Venue 14:9 22:24 25:12 years 7:5 15:15
48:17 Twombly 53:6 version 9:4 34:7,9 45:23 16:9,10 17:10
typicality 29:21 view 9:15 48:4 49:9 20:3,4 38:13
44:20 unappointed virtually 32:3 46:7 52:9,10
46:17 53:17 virtue 34:21 whatsoever yield 4:4,5,12
11:11 17:15 wind 49:6 Z 29:16
19:5,6 understand want 5:15,21,23 14:2,3,4,5 14:25 31:21
25:14,17 19:10 20:7 6:1,4 10:24 23:24 30:25 36:3
35:11 28:6 29:2 40:7 26:2 27:25 32:16
46:25 understanding 29:10 34:24 worded 12:16 $
54:5 45:16 47:11 35:7 36:19,22 words 4:23 $10 4:5 27:7,13
undisputed 19:7 47:22 49:1,14 11:23 12:9,18 $100,000 9:2,14
United 1:1,13 1:18 42:18 43:6 $4,800,000
40:4 53:14 worse 14:16 $4,900,000 4:4
urged 14:13 30:21 31:20 27:2,13,21,22 $5 5:6 6:21 10:3
usually 8:8 22:3 38:15 41:14 36:6 41:25 19:8,14,15
50:13 v 1:6 3:5 4:10 well-pleaded wouldn't 6:12 25:4,16 27:3
53:19 valuable 43:23 38:19 wrong 41:25 36:11,14 37:22
40:18 28:15 33:2 weren't 21:12 X 43:15,24 44:13
valuing 9:10 we'll 50:25 50:15 46:13 52:3
41:16 various 28:17 13:11 16:25 Y 21:25
47:19 39:17 17:2,7,8 21:22 year 27:18 $50 31:8 33:2
25 2:7
38:4,7 3a 20:21 22:12
40 31:8 39:3
7:5 30:20 41 51:23
38:13
27:1 29:3 5
46:23,25 5 16:9 27:22
1:5 3:4 33:8,12 43:11
1:14 3:2 44:25 46:1,16
55:14 48:22
20:4 5,000 10:5
11:24 5-year 16:4
12:24 50 31:3
18:14 51 2:10
53 36:25
6
12:25 26:12,14
35:17
12:23
3:19 7
7 1:10 33:25
18:14
18:5 8
27:14 8 33:25
38:14,17
4:10
3:19 16:10
16:6
31:4 42:24
38:13
3:12
14:10
1:10
51:10
8:3 20:12
50:14
21:14
19:22
