IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
COY A. KOONTZ, JR., :
Petitioner : No. 11-1447
v. :
ST. JOHNS RIVER WATER MANAGEMENT :
DISTRICT :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, January 15, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAUL J. BEARD, II, ESQ., Sacramento, California; on
behalf of Petitioner.
PAUL R.Q. WOLFSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United
States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PAUL J. BEARD, II, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL R.Q. WOLFSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae, 46
supporting the Respondent
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL J. BEARD, II, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 56
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next this morning in Case 11-1447,
Koontz v. St. Johns River Water Management District.
Mr. Beard?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL J. BEARD, II,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BEARD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
This case is about the extent to which
Nollan and Dolan review should be made available to
individuals to challenge excessive exactions imposed as
conditions to land use approval.
Here, before he could make small use of his
property, Coy Koontz was told by the district that he
had to finance enhancements to 50 acres of publicly
held --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's back up. When he
asked for a permit, he voluntarily said, I -- as
mitigation for the loss of wetlands, I am going to
voluntarily create a conservation easement on the rest
of my property. So he recognized, from day one, that
there had to be some mitigation for what he was seeking
to do in the permit. Is that right?
MR. BEARD: That is correct. With his
application, Justice Ginsburg, he did offer a mitigation
in the form of a conservation easement on most of his
property.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And if he had offered
nothing, and he just said, I want this permit to develop
my land, and the agency said, you have offered no
mitigation, we deny your permit, would he have a claim?
MR. BEARD: If there was no condition
attached to the permit denial, then there would be no
claim; although it would be up to the district, under
Nollan and Dolan, to make the individualized
determination, both of the amount of impact to wetlands
and the amount necessary to offset.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose he just put in
the application, no mitigating -- no mitigation of any
kind, and the agency says no. You recognize that he
would have no claim, right? That he had an obligation
to mitigate.
MR. BEARD: It depends, Your Honor. If the
denial was based on the idea that he was obligated to
offer mitigation and that was the extent of the
district's communication with him -- in other words,
that the district told him, you must offer us something,
we won't tell you what, and we'll let you decide what
you want to offer in mitigation -- if that was in the
record and that was the -- and the result of that was a
permit denial because Mr. Koontz said, for example,
well, gee whiz, I don't know how much I need to mitigate
for, you haven't told me, I still believe there would be
a Dolan violation because, in Dolan, the Court made
clear, there has to be an individualized
determination --
JUSTICE SCALIA: For what? For what? You
wouldn't -- you wouldn't know what property was taken.
MR. BEARD: He wouldn't know where --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are -- you are posing a
situation in which he never came forward with any
suggestion. They never came forward with any
suggestion. You say he still has a cause of action for
a taking?
MR. BEARD: Not for --
JUSTICE SCALIA: A taking of what?
MR. BEARD: Not for a taking, Your Honor,
but he -- he may have a cause of action, under Nollan
and Dolan, for the imposition of an unconstitutional
condition that may not -- the contours of which may not
be known. But the fact that the district told him, you
need to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think the other side says
that you may have such a cause of action here.
MR. BEARD: Excuse me. I didn't understand?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wouldn't -- wouldn't the
other side in this case acknowledge that you have such a
cause -- that you may have such a cause of action here?
MR. BEARD: Yes, Your Honor. I believe
they -- well, their argument --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But they are just saying
you don't have a cause of action for a taking.
MR. BEARD: That is correct. They -- they
are saying that we don't have a cause of action for a
taking. Of course, in Nollan and Dolan, there was no
transfer of property from the applicant to the relevant
agencies.
As this Court will recall, in both Nollan
and Dolan, there was an imposition of an exaction, and
immediately, the applicant in both cases sued to prevent
the unlawful exaction from being consummated.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I've had a
problem with your argument, okay? From the record, it's
very clear that a conservation offer is not considered
mitigation because there's still a net loss of wetlands.
The policy is abundantly clear, stated, and undisputed.
Okay?
So, given that policy, why are we even in
this case? Meaning whether there was an exaction or no
exaction or whatever happened in terms of the denial,
you couldn't win on your offer because the policy of the
State was clear and, in my mind, unassailable: We have
to preserve wetlands. Conservation of other wetlands is
not enough. Mitigation means make sure that we get a
net gain of wetlands.
So why are we here?
MR. BEARD: Justice Sotomayor, we don't
contest the legitimacy of the policy, of course, in
preserving wetlands; nor do we contest, for that matter,
the ratios that the district has imposed via its
regulations.
It is undisputed -- the trial court found
below, the Court of Appeals affirmed, and the finding
was undisturbed in the Florida Supreme Court, that, in
fact, the offsite mitigation -- that part of the
mitigation that went beyond the conservation easement
was in excess, it violated Nollan and Dolan.
So the underlying factual findings are not
in dispute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think you -- I think
you have a problem then, Mr. Beard, because, if you look
at the record, the record is very clear that it was
not -- that the district didn't come back and say, take
it or leave it, you -- you improve our wetlands, or you
get no permit.
There was -- and if you -- they are set out
in the Respondent's brief at pages 13 to 15, oh, at
least half a dozen, maybe more, that the -- the district
said, here are several ways -- several ways that you
could sufficiently offset the adverse impact. And some
of them had nothing to do with improving the
government's own land.
So if we can't -- we really can't say this
was a take it or leave it, either you do the
improvement that we are asking you to do, or you get no
permit, what do you do with the fact that, as the
appendix certainly bears out, that the district offered
a range, it offered many, many ways that this permit
might be granted. And then it says, then you are free
to come up with some other -- something else.
MR. BEARD: Justice Ginsburg, it's true that
there were negotiations and that a range of offers were
made. On Mr. Koontz's application to use 3.7 acres of
his property in conjunction with the conservation
easement, the district made a final decision denying him
his permit because he would not go beyond the easement
and offer offsite mitigation.
And that is --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not -- not -- because he
wouldn't go beyond what he was offering, but that's --
some of these options -- one was that he -- that he
adjust the size of his project, that he make it smaller.
The -- the staff suggested eliminating -- no, that --
that's a different one.
But there was one that suggested that he --
he reduce the scale, the Petitioner reduce the scale of
his project to one acre and preserve the rest for the
conservation easement. Now, if that -- if he took that,
would you have any -- any case here?
MR. BEARD: I'm sorry, Justice Ginsburg? If
we took --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If they said, we will
give you -- we will give you a permit if you reduce the
scale of your project to one acre, and then preserve the
rest by a conservation easement?
MR. BEARD: Unlikely not, Your Honor,
because the trial court did conclude, based on the
evidence, that he was having minimal impact on any
viable wetlands. And so even a reduction in the size of
the project, with an increase in the amount of
mitigation, would have a fortiori gone beyond even what
we have in this case.
The court of appeals made clear, as a matter
of law, that Mr. Koontz did -- was entitled to a
determination on the application he submitted. He
submitted that application. And, as the district
admitted in a pretrial statement right before trial, the
denials were based exclusively -- and this is a quote --
"The denials were based exclusively on the fact that the
plaintiff would not provide additional mitigation to
offset impacts from the proposed project."
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Beard, can I go back to
Justice Ginsburg's first question and make sure I
understand your answer to it?
Suppose that the State just had a policy
that said, We're concerned about wetlands; in order to
develop your piece of property, you have to come forward
with a proposal -- a mitigation proposal and an adequate
mitigation proposal. And then it gives some guidance
about what an adequate mitigation proposal would mean,
but it really leaves it up to the landowner.
And the landowner says, sorry, I'm not
giving you anything, I think I should be able to develop
this on my own without providing any mitigation. Is
that -- and -- and the State says, well, then, sorry,
you don't get a permit.
Is that a taking? Does the man have a
takings claim? I heard you answer the question yes.
MR. BEARD: My answer was that he may have a
Nollan/Dolan claim. I don't want to get confused about
the term "taking" because "taking" could imply many
kinds of regulatory takings claims.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I -- that's the next
question I was going to ask you because my understanding
of Nollan and Dolan was that it assumed the condition,
if taken alone, would constitute a taking.
Do you disagree with that?
MR. BEARD: I do not disagree with that,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So then you need a
taking someplace in the picture; isn't that right?
Nollan/Dolan says this is how we analyze takings in the
context of a permit scheme. So we have to look for a
taking. So, in my example, where is the taking?
This was Justice Ginsburg's example. Where
is the taking?
MR. BEARD: Right. And I think that's
correct, that, under Nollan and Dolan, you would have to
have a condition that was imposed on you.
My only point was would it be lawful --
or there be a problem in the district shifting its
burden on to the applicant and saying, we're not going
to establish what mitigation is required, and we're not
going to establish what the impacts are, we'll leave
that up to you, you give us what you think is -- is
necessary.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the district
did -- did have, as I think it did here, a uniform
policy that, for every acre you develop, you have to
preserve 10 wetlands -- 10 acres of wetlands.
And then two cases, both hypothetical, one
is somebody had an 100-acre parcel, and they want to
develop five acres, and they have 50 acres that they
mitigate for wetlands. The other person has only one
acre, and he wants to -- and he has to develop the whole
acre.
Can the district then say, we'll give you
the one-acre development permit, if you reclaim wetlands
on 10 other acres that you -- that we can designate for
you elsewhere? The hypothetical being designed to point
out whether or not the crux of your argument is that he
had to go off -- offsite.
MR. BEARD: The crux is not that he had to
go offsite, but that -- that did play into the trial
court's analysis as to the connection between his impact
and what was being required, and there was testimony
below that there was no connection there. And the fact
that the mitigation was four to seven miles away played
into the analysis as to whether there was a connection.
It's not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So, in my hypothetical,
you would -- would there be a violation in my
hypothetical, as you understood it?
MR. BEARD: It depends, Your Honor, because
you have to determine what -- in each respective
hypothetical, what the impact was actually to the
wetlands and then determine what the appropriate
mitigation --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do you normally
decide whether the agency has done that right or not?
MR. BEARD: Excuse me?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do you normally
decide? Let's assume Justice Kagan's question -- or
Justice Ginsburg's question. No -- it just says, come
to us with a mitigation plan. And you say, this is what
I offer, and it's enough. And they say, no, it's not
enough; denied.
Would you go through the State
administrative process, to figure out whether that was
arbitrary and capricious, whether it was a Penn Central
violation? What would you do with that claim in the
normal circumstance? Justice Kennedy's question.
MR. BEARD: In the normal circumstance, if
there was no condition imposed, there would not be a
Nollan and Dolan claim. There may be another kind of
claim, say, under Penn Central, and that could be
brought. That wouldn't have to be brought via
administrative remedies, if there was a final agency
action --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It would be an inverse
condemnation.
MR. BEARD: Correct. It could be an inverse
condemnation type of a claim.
JUSTICE BREYER: So -- so what I think might
be driving some of these questions is the district court
says -- just as you say, had Koontz offered additional
mitigation -- the additional that would have cost
$10,000, he would have gotten the permit. That's what
he said.
So then you look back to see what additional
mitigation. And, here, we have in the record, at least
that my law clerk finds -- you know, that -- that they
went to Koontz and they said, here are some choices:
Install a subsurface stormwater management system in the
development -- I mean, right on your land -- or reduce
the size to one acre; or eliminate the filling of the
slide slope areas; or replace 15 culverts and eliminate
a ditch system somewhere else; or enhance 50 acres
somewhere else.
Now, at that point, when -- and then they
said, won't you negotiate for 30 more days, maybe we can
find some other things? He says, no, I'll bring a
lawsuit. Okay.
Now, I absolutely can see a Penn Central
claim there. But the land -- what you're talking about
is not some land somewhere off the site. We're talking
about his land. If, after all, they said you have to
leave all the coal in the mine to hold up the ceiling --
you know what I'm referring to -- then they go too far.
And, here, if we look at all these
conditions proposed and said -- you know, this is just
terrible, they don't do it for anybody else, your
client's the only one, it bears no relation, oh, it just
goes too far, you win under Penn Central.
So I can see the framework here. I'm not
saying you're going to win, but I got it clear what the
framework is. But suddenly you bring this Nollan/Dolan
business into it, and I get confused. And the reason is
because there was a different piece of land in Nollan
and Dolan.
The piece of land that was different was an
easement in front of -- and an easement is a piece of
property in Nollan, and there was a bike path in Dolan,
right across his property.
So -- so I don't see how Nollan and Dolan
have to do with this. I see everything that Penn
Central has to do with it, and that grows out of the
nature of what was being offered. You are saying what
they are offering you is simply going too far. Okay.
I've got that conceptually.
I ask this question because all these briefs
are about Nollan and Dolan, and I don't understand what
they have to do with it. I must be missing something,
and that's why I am asking you.
MR. BEARD: Justice Breyer --
Justice Breyer, Nollan and Dolan, fundamentally, are
about whether a property owner has been singled out to
bear public burdens that, in fairness and --
JUSTICE BREYER: But, of course, they are
land claims because they took a piece of land, which
everybody assumes -- right in front of his house -- and
said, you've got to let everybody from the beaches walk
back and forth from one beach in the north to another
one in the south, and they are going to walk over your
land.
And the Court said, you can't take his land
unless you have a nexus to some public purpose that is
related to his building the house. I got it. I just
don't see what it has to do with this case.
MR. BEARD: Because you -- you can have an
unconstitutional condition imposed on your right to do
something, in this case, make use of your property. And
the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Of course, you can. In
fact, there is too much coal. That's an
unconstitutional condition. It goes too far, and there
is a framework called Penn Central, which deals with it.
MR. BEARD: Penn Central is a special
takings case that goes to the question of whether a
regulation of the use of property that is sought to be
developed has gone too far so as to affect the taking.
Penn Central is not --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which -- how does that
not address going too far? You just said it. If -- if
this is unrelated to the -- the denial of your permit of
all uses of your land, and you're saying that's the
problem, which is I still have a use, I just want more,
why does that entitle you to your lost profits?
When were you ever entitled to start with
the claim that, somehow, you're entitled to a permit, as
a matter of law?
MR. BEARD: We're entitled, under the
Unconstitutional Conditions Doctrine, to not have to
bear a public burden that has no bearing on the impact
that we're trying to use on our property.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, that's fine. That --
that would enable you to challenge the denial of the
permit, saying it's based upon an unconstitutional
condition. But how does it -- how does it enable you to
say there's been a taking? What has been taken?
MR. BEARD: What has been -- what has been
taken, in effect, is his funds that have to be put now
to a public use, the enhancement of 50 acres of public
wetlands. And there is nothing in the Takings Clause --
nothing --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It hasn't -- it hasn't been
taken. I mean, he turned it down.
MR. BEARD: Nothing was taken in Nollan and
Dolan, either. What was proposed there, though, was a
threat of a taking.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The -- the permit was
granted in Nollan and Dolan. And -- and the condition
attached to the permit, therefore, took effect; namely,
that you had to dedicate this easement over your -- over
your beach, whereas, as my colleague pointed out,
anybody could walk back and forth, barefooted.
(Laughter.)
MR. BEARD: Justice Scalia, in Nollan and
Dolan, there was approval -- approval with conditions.
There were no permits issued, and that's -- that is an
important distinction to make, that most agencies,
including this one, you approve a permit with a -- with
conditions, which means, we will give you your permits
as soon as you comply; which is substantively the same
as saying, we won't give you your permits until you say
yes to our conditions.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Look, we have
the same question. I just want an answer to my
question. And, for the purposes of this question, I am
assuming enormously in your favor. I am assuming that
this set of conditions is the worst thing since sliced
bread.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. I
think there -- all right. I'm assuming that in your
favor. All right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sliced bread's supposed to
be good.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. It's been proved
bad.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: The -- the -- but -- but in
any case, the -- the point is, you see, I assume that in
your favor. I'm trying to figure out the conceptual
framework. I assume that in your favor. I assume
whether they didn't issue the permit and would have, but
they haven't quite, or maybe they have -- it means
nothing.
Now, having assumed that, it seems to me
what your argument is, is that this is a form of
regulatory taking of the kind that Holmes was talking
about. And that -- that's what was going on in -- in
Penn Central, and so we simply look to see if it went
too far or whatever. The lower courts could do that. I
got that part.
Now, I want you to answer the question,
which is, am I right? Is there another part -- a
different part to this case, called the Nollan/Dolan
part and explain that to me. That's why I asked the
question. I want to hear what you're going to say.
MR. BEARD: Justice Breyer, there is another
part, a very distinct part, and that part goes to the
question of the condition that produced the denial. So
there are -- there are actually two parts here. There's
the -- the conditioning of your permit; in other words,
we will not issue you permits unless you agree to
perform offsite mitigation.
Now, the question, under Nollan and Dolan,
is was that condition constitutional? Was he asked to
give up something that the State -- or the district, in
this case, should not have asked him to give up in
exchange for his right to use his property?
Now, it's true as -- as, Justice Breyer, you
mentioned, that the permit denial and whether that
affects a regulatory taking of his land, of the thing he
wants to use, that's an entirely different question.
And it may raise another kind of claim -- another kind
of taking claim.
But the crux of the claim that was litigated
in this case, from the trial court all the way up to the
Florida Supreme Court, is was the condition to perform
offsite mitigation -- and that was accepted as true by
the courts below, that this was a condition that had
been --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose the record just
doesn't bear that out; the record shows that it wasn't
one option. They gave him a laundry list of things he
could do, some -- some of them having nothing whatever
to do -- anything off his own property.
Suppose the -- whatever the district court
might have said, the record shows that the agency said,
you're right, seven things you could do, come up with
here are six, if you have something else. And some of
them have absolutely nothing to do with other
properties.
MR. BEARD: We agree that there were
negotiations and that, even in the order, it's alleged
that various options were provided to Mr. Koontz, but,
ultimately, the decision -- as the district admits, the
decision -- the final decision to deny the permit
application for 3.7 acres of use was Mr. Koontz's
refusal to acquiesce in the condition that he perform
50 acres of offsite improvements.
And, by the way, the reference --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where -- where is that?
MR. BEARD: It's in the Joint Appendix,
pages 70 to 71, which is the pretrial statement where
each party sets forth his and her position. There, the
court -- I'm sorry -- the district made clear that the
condition that had been refused and was the cause of the
permit denial was the one to perform offsite mitigation
at a cost of a range between $10,000 on the low end.
Our experts said in the range of 100 to 150,000 -- 90 to
150,000.
So the district, later on -- even in the
Florida Supreme Court, Justice Ginsburg, said, in its
Petitioner's brief on jurisdiction, at page 1, that it
required additional mitigation before it would authorize
the permits and that, quote, "Additional mitigation
would be offsite because the available conservation land
onsite was, in the district's view, insufficient
mitigation."
So there's no question that an actual
condition was imposed, whose rejection produced a permit
denial.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. -- Mr. Beard, I don't
think anybody is contesting that there was a condition
imposed or maybe there are. But -- you know, there's
another question whether that condition is a taking. And
we've been trying to figure out what's the taking here.
In Nollan and Dolan, they took an easement, they took a
piece of land, so that's the taking. Now, you said the
funds are the taking; is that correct?
Any time that somebody comes up with a
proposal for -- for a developer to pay money, in order
to compensate the State for the costs that are
associated with his development, that that is, itself, a
taking?
MR. BEARD: I want to be clear that we're
not saying that all monetary fees or exactions would be
subject to Nollan and Dolan, only within the permit
context -- the special context of land use permitting is
it --
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, I understand. But, in
the permit context, a State can't say to somebody, you
have to pay to perform some service or to compensate
without it being a taking and without it being subject
to Nollan and Dolan analysis.
MR. BEARD: Correct. If the State or if the
government or the permitting authority asks for the --
for the property owner to give up property, even money
to be put to a public use, and it's not an application
for your user fee or something like that, it's for
mitigation, that should be subject --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So -- so, for example -- and
I'll try to do this very quickly, if -- if the State
just had a policy for every acre of wetlands you fill
in, it costs us $10,000, you need to pay $10,000, that's
subject to Nollan and Dolan analysis, too.
MR. BEARD: Correct. It would be subject to
Nollan and Dolan analysis, to determine if there really,
on the ground, there's a connection between the
impact --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, it -- it would be
subject to Nollan and Dolan analysis if they took the
$10,000. If they issued the permit, the developer went
ahead with the development, and the State then attached
the -- the bank account in the amount of $10,000 or
whatever, that would be Nollan -- in Nollan and Dolan --
in Nollan, there was a taking.
He had gone ahead with the -- with the
development of his house under the permit, which said,
if he did that, he gave away the easement. So there --
there was a -- a taking there. The -- the easement
would have been taken automatically.
In -- in -- in Dolan, there was -- the
individual had not gone ahead with the development, but
it was clear that any development the person undertook
would be subject to the -- the exaction that the
municipality required. So there was a -- a taking
there, we said.
Here, there's nothing that happens. The
permit was denied, unlike in -- unlike in -- in Dolan,
where the permit was granted, and it was understood
that, if she went ahead with it, she was going to
lose -- lose some land rights. Here, the permit's been
denied. I can't see where there's a taking here.
Nothing's been taken.
MR. BEARD: In Nollan and Dolan, Your Honor,
nothing was taken, either. In Nollan, you had a permit
approval with conditions. It's true that development
had not gone forward, but, here, as well, development
had not gone forward.
Presumably -- theoretically, if the
development had gone forward, he might have been subject
to conditions that he would have had to satisfy. But I
would submit to the Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The permit had issued. The
permit had issued in both of those cases, and,
therefore, the person was saying, to go ahead with this
permit, I give up -- I give up this land.
MR. BEARD: The permits in Nollan and Dolan
actually did not issue. There was only approval, with
conditions, and there is a difference. And that is no
different from what happened here. The threat is the
same. You don't get a permit issued to you until you --
JUSTICE SCALIA: There was no approval with
conditions. There's one thing for -- for a municipality
to issue an -- an approval with conditions, and a
municipality saying, we can't approval it unless you
agree to these conditions. And the person doesn't
agree, and the municipality says, we don't approve it.
MR. BEARD: But, in either case, he -- he
faces the threat, the unconstitutional condition on his
use of his property, you don't get your use until you
comply with our conditions.
Mr. Chief Justice --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I have one question.
I know we -- you are running short on your rebuttal
time.
Assume that, when we look at this record,
assume we think there is a due process violation, not a
taking violation. That is not before us here, is it?
MR. BEARD: No. The due -- there is no due
process claim here. There is only a State statute that
embodies sort of a due process standard, but there is no
due process claim here.
And may I reserve the balance of my time,
Your Honor?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And I will afford
you some additional time, since our questioning intruded
on yours.
MR. BEARD: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Wolfson?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL R.Q. WOLFSON
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. WOLFSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The parties agree that Florida may require a
landowner to perform mitigation as a condition for a
permit that would allow the destruction of a wetlands.
The parties disagreed as to how much mitigation was
appropriate in this case.
The district thought that Mr. Koontz's
proposal was insufficient to mitigate the -- the damage
to wetlands. Mr. Koontz rejected the district's
counterproposals, and he refused to do anything more.
And the district denied his permit application because
he refused to do anything more.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does it make any
difference, in his refusing to do anything more, whether
the condition is onsite or offsite?
MR. WOLFSON: I don't think it makes any
difference, Mr. Chief Justice, I mean, the -- under the
Florida regulatory regime, we cannot demand certain
conditions from the landowner.
The -- we are obligated -- if the -- if the
permit -- the landowner has to establish, under his
permit application -- and it's his burden -- that he
meets the various standards -- the public interest
standard, which includes no adverse impact --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Those are all
State -- State law provisions you are talking about.
MR. WOLFSON: Correct. Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about is
there -- is there anything in the Federal Constitution
that limits the conditions that you can demand?
MR. WOLFSON: I don't -- not -- not -- if I
understand your question, Mr. Chief Justice, I don't
think so.
I think that the question is -- when you are
talking about what analytical rubric you should apply,
whether it be Nollan or Dolan or Penn Central, I think
you can always argue that the impact of any of the
conditions that we would demand -- and I will assume
here that they are true demands -- you can always argue
that the impact of the conditions, be they onsite,
offsite, or monetary, would be so burdensome that it
would call into play Penn Central or --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's -- but
there is no -- there is no restraint on the agency. It
can ask for the moon -- before it will give a permit?
MR. WOLFSON: Well, I don't -- I think that
Penn -- first of all, I think there are many restraints
on the agency. First of all, I think Penn Central
imposes a restraint on the agency.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you know of any
case where the government has lost a Penn Central case?
MR. WOLFSON: In -- yes. There are several
in this case, Mr. Chief Justice. I mean, Hodel v.
Irving is a Penn Central case, I believe, and I think
Kaiser-Aetna was also a Penn Central case.
Now, they -- now, they -- so --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let me present --
I'm sorry.
MR. WOLFSON: So it does -- it certainly
does -- and they --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It doesn't happen
very often.
MR. WOLFSON: Well, it is -- certainly, the
burden is on the landowner, but -- but I think that Penn
Central -- I think that, in Lingle, when this Court tried to
sort of restore -- you know, some -- some coherence to
the -- to the takings jurisprudence and repudiated the
Agins point, the Court pointed out that -- that the --
what -- that the normal -- sort of the normal
jurisprudence is that the government is not required to
establish, by a heightened scrutiny, sort of that there
is a connection between means-ends analysis, when it
engages in economic -- economic regulation.
And that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just -- just to nail
it down, your -- your position is that there is no limit
in the Federal Constitution on what the agency can
demand as a condition for the issuance of a permit?
MR. WOLFSON: No, no, no. I don't think
that is our position. First of all, the Due Process
Clause may certainly impose conditions. The Equal
Protection Clause may certainly impose conditions.
And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But -- but the
Takings -- the Takings Clause does not.
MR. WOLFSON: If -- if the conditions are so
onerous that it would make it essentially impossible to
derive any value from the land, that may very well call
into question Penn Central or Lucas. I mean, in many
ways, this case could have been litigated as a very
straightforward Penn Central case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose -- suppose the
agency said, we are really short of revenue; we will let
you develop your land, if you contribute a million
dollars to our new football stadium?
MR. WOLFSON: Justice Kennedy, I think that
that might very well raise a Penn Central or Lucas claim.
It also sounds like --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it doesn't raise Penn
Central. You keep on running away from it by saying
Penn Central or Lucas.
MR. WOLFSON: Well, it's not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It does not deprive the
land of all value. The land still has some value. Penn
Central is totally out of the case.
MR. WOLFSON: Well -- I mean -- it's not --
it's not a Nollan or Dolan claim is my point,
Justice Kennedy.
And it's not a Nollan or Dolan claim because
it's not a -- the -- the -- as -- as my friend
acknowledged, the question in Nollan and Dolan -- or the
rationale of Nollan and Dolan is would the condition, by
itself, if demanded unilaterally and outside the
permitting context, would -- would that have been a
taking of property for which just compensation would
have been required?
So the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure it would have
been -- sure it would have been, if they just went
along -- to a landowner, and the landowner is there,
minding his own business, and they say, well, you own
some property, so give us a 1 million dollars to build a
football stadium.
That would be -- that would be
unconstitutional, right?
MR. WOLFSON: I think -- I think that
would -- I mean, I think that would violate -- could
well violate the Due Process Clause. It's hard to
see what the -- you know, what the rationality of it is.
But I don't think that this Court has
ever -- has ever extended the concept of a taking to
requirements that a landowner -- that anybody -- or a
landowner, either pay money or, more importantly,
because I think what really is this case, is come into
compliance with a regulatory requirement that would
have -- that -- which he would have to expend money to
comply with.
And that --
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm trying to understand
what would be -- what would be left of Nollan and Dolan,
if we agree with you.
Let me give you three situations. First,
the petition -- the district says, we are granting your
permit on the condition that you give us one-third of
your land. That's Nollan and Dolan, right?
MR. WOLFSON: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. Situation number 2,
permit is denied, but it will be granted, if you give us
one-third of your land. What about that?
MR. WOLFSON: I think, in that situation --
in other words, if the situation is really exactly the
same like Nollan and Dolan, but the permit is denied,
but it's clear that it is a concrete -- concrete
condition, the landowner can go up through the judicial
review process and say, this is -- you know, the denial
of the permit application is predicated on an
unconstitutional condition, and you should set that
aside.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is that the same as the
first example, for purposes of Nollan and Dolan?
MR. WOLFSON: Almost. Almost,
Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. Now let me to get to
my third. The permit is denied, but it will be granted,
if you give us the fair market value of the third of the
land, and, once you have done that, then we're going to
condemn your land and pay you the fair market value for
it.
MR. WOLFSON: Justice Alito, I think that
this Court's decision -- there are -- this Court's
decision in Village of Norwood, essentially says, if
what is going on is just a pure contrivance to avoid the
requirement of compensation in the Just Compensation
Clause, that the Court has said, no, it will look
through and -- to the substance of the demand and
determine that there was -- you know, essentially, an
evasion of the just compensation requirement.
JUSTICE SCALIA: As I understand your
position, cash is magical, right? The -- the government
can come in and -- come into my house, take all of the
cash that's there, and that is not the basis for a takings
claim, right? Because cash is not -- is not a taking.
Does that make any sense?
MR. WOLFSON: Well, first of all,
Justice Scalia, of course, this case, we don't believe
involves cash. It involves a requirement to do
something that costs money, which is -- is different
from cash.
I mean, cash is -- the problem with
extending -- the problem with extending the takings
concept to a monetary obligation, which can be paid for
out of sort of undifferentiated funds --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. WOLFSON: -- is that it has -- it has no
logical stopping point. I mean, the court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The stopping point is don't
take my cash.
MR. WOLFSON: Well, but the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Your -- your answer to my
question is, that's okay, it's not a taking, right?
MR. WOLFSON: I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I may have some other cause
of action, but not a -- not a taking? The government's
come in and taken my money.
MR. WOLFSON: It's not a -- it's not a
Nollan and Dolan claim for the government to say, if you
want -- if you want a permit --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not talking Nollan and
Dolan. I'm talking about your position that the taking
of cash cannot be a taking.
MR. WOLFSON: Well, if a -- I'm sorry,
Justice Scalia. If the -- if the government is seizing
the -- the identifiable dollar bills that are in your --
in your house, I mean, that sounds more like a case
like --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I see, I see.
MR. WOLFSON: Webb's Fabulous Pharmacies,
where --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If they -- if they say, you
have to turn over to us whatever money you have in your
house, or you have to turn over to us whatever's in your
bank account, that's not a taking.
MR. WOLFSON: Justice Scalia, I think there
are many -- there are many constitutional claims that
could be made. And I also want to add, there is an
extensive overlay of State law in this area that
protects landowners from arbitrary, irrational,
intrusive, excessive demands by government agencies.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One of the
things the -- the Federal provision, the Takings Clause,
is designed to prevent property owners from having to
bear the costs that should be borne by the people as a
whole.
The football stadium example, there is no
reason that a particular landowner should have to pay
for the football stadium, simply because he owns
property.
The Takings Clause is designed to make sure
that those exactions are not imposed on property owners,
but spread more evenly across the citizens who benefit
from it. And I guess I don't understand why you say
that the Takings Clause is the one provision that
doesn't apply in that type of situation.
MR. WOLFSON: Mr. Chief Justice, the -- the
Armstrong policy of the -- that the government -- that
an individual person should not be forced to bear what
society should -- what should be spread to society as a
whole -- is not violated when the government insists
that a landowner comply with a generally applicable
regulation.
Now, of course -- of course --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The generally
applicable regulation in the football stadium
hypothetical is not generally applicable. It says, you
are the owner of this property, and if you want to
develop it, you've got to build a football stadium.
MR. WOLFSON: Well, I think that is saying
to one particular landowner, you may have to build a
football stadium, where no other type of similar
regulation or requirement would ever be imposed on any
other landowner sounds -- you know, like -- you know,
sounds like an equal protection claim, if the government
just picks out one landowner.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if they do it to five
or six other landowners, okay?
MR. WOLFSON: Well, then I think you have to
ask -- but, then, Justice Scalia, I think you have to
ask what -- what regulatory scheme is the government --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, let's -- let's
put -- let's put it this way: I take it, it's -- it's a
given that the government cannot take an easement on
your property. It cannot use your property for its own
purposes. It cannot park its trucks there. It cannot
cut the grass.
Why is it that, if it can't do those, it can
still force you, as a condition to using your property
to its highest and best use, to pay them money?
MR. WOLFSON: Well, I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why isn't that an equal
burden -- why isn't that an equal use of the property by
the government?
MR. WOLFSON: I think -- I think, for
several reasons, Justice Kennedy. First of all, I think
that this nation has a long legal tradition of giving
unique legal protection to property, as opposed to
money.
I mean, there are many circumstances -- many
circumstances, where the government can say to an
individual, you must give me $1,000, but cannot say --
or a group of individuals or -- but cannot say to the
same group or individual, you must give me land worth
$1,000.
I mean, there -- that -- that is what the
Just Compensation Clause --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Really? Gee, that doesn't
strike me as -- as entirely true.
MR. WOLFSON: Well, Justice --
Justice Scalia, the government obviously --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You mean a tax that is
imposed only on landowners, and it's -- you know, it's a
tax -- $5,000 per landowner, if that were replaced by a
provision that said, every -- every landowner shall
contribute to the State a portion of his property worth
$5,000, that --
MR. WOLFSON: I think that would --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The latter is bad, and the
former's okay?
MR. WOLFSON: I think that would raise very
serious questions. I mean, I don't know that this Court
has ever -- has ever been faced with exactly such a
case, but I think that would raise very serious
questions.
JUSTICE BREYER: So that -- am I
wrong about -- I might have this -- I thought the
framework, roughly, is the following: it is not the
case that Penn Central applies only where there is a
physical invasion of property, or there is total
destruction of the value of the property.
In those two situations, what we said in
Lucas is it applies without case-specific inquiry, but
there are another set of cases where Penn Central and
McMahon apply with case-specific inquiry.
And those, to discover whether you have one,
you look into such things as whether the regulation
destroys investment-backed expectations. And then you
look to the nature of the government interest and the
relationships, et cetera. That's what I thought the
framework was.
Now, if that's the framework, then, when the
government says, I will let you develop your land if and
only if you give $50,000 to the Shriners Hospital, you
would say, I can't develop my land. And, besides, that
significantly interferes with my investment-backed
expectations. And, besides, there is no relation
whatsoever. Therefore, I win under the Takings Clause.
Now, I spell all that out because I -- if
I'm wrong about that framework -- if I am right about
the framework, that can apply to this case. If I am
wrong about the framework, I want to know where in the
cases I'm wrong.
MR. WOLFSON: Justice Breyer, we think that
you are right about that framework. That -- and -- and
just six weeks ago in the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That surprises me.
MR. WOLFSON: In the -- well, just six weeks
ago, in the Arkansas Fish and Game Commission case, this
Court reiterated that Penn Central is presumed to be the
test.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, if I'm right
about the framework, that takes care of all the
hypotheticals you were asked. In those cases, there is
a significant interference with investment-backed
expectation. And there's no justification whatsoever,
so the Takings Clause applies.
MR. WOLFSON: We agree, Justice Scalia, and
we don't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Justification is the
protection of wetlands. That's a justification, the
protection of wetlands.
There's no necessary comparison, as Nollan
and Dolan requires, between the harm that would be
occasioned if the permit were granted and what the State
is exacting in order to mitigate.
That -- that doesn't exist anywhere in -- in
the analysis that you are talking about.
MR. WOLFSON: Well, Justice Scalia, there
are -- there is another problem with the Nollan and
Dolan claim in this case, which is it's hard to see how
you can have an exactions takings claim when nothing has
ever actually been exacted --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, that is a problem.
(Laughter.)
MR. WOLFSON: And -- right.
And so -- and, in this case, if the -- if
the claim for the taking is -- for the compensation is
based on Nollan and Dolan, it seems that there is a
mismatch and that what the Petitioner is trying to do is
sort of take the Nollan/Dolan heightened scrutiny
government -- government bears the burden of proof
analysis and sort of convert that into what is the
regulatory takings analysis for the entire parcel of his
land, which is -- which is the measure of damages that
he received.
So I think that there is a mismatch. And,
now, this is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think that your
point goes to the question that has been raised about --
there's no permit issued. He didn't accept the -- the
permit. And I don't understand that proposition.
Are you saying that, if you are confronted
with an unconstitutional condition, you have to accept
it, and then you can challenge it? You can't simply say
you denied that on the basis of an unconstitutional
condition, and that's wrong?
MR. WOLFSON: No, that's not our argument,
Mr. Chief Justice. Florida has opened an avenue for
judicial relief for you to go up through the Florida EPA
process, just like the Federal EPA, where you can say,
stop -- stop the district from doing this to me; they
are predicating their -- either their grant or their --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. I'm trying to
get to the Federal. You often fall back to the State
provisions. I'm looking at the Federal Constitution.
And, assuming the State provisions give you
no relief, is it your position that he has no claim,
unless he accepts a permit with unconstitutional
conditions?
MR. WOLFSON: If there is no -- if there's
no kind of avenue, as I was saying, then I would think
we would then -- you would have to obtain -- you have to
seek compensation, but your compensation is for the
value of your land that was taken.
And, in Lingle, this Court reiterated that
the Takings Clause is not a substantive limitation on
the government's power to regulate. The -- the Takings
Clause -- or as I should call it, the Just Compensation
Clause -- is a requirement that if -- that the
government will pay you just compensation for any
property or property interest it has seized from you.
It does not -- it does not, itself, impose
a -- a requirement that the government substantively
justify its regulation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Wolfson, why isn't it
entirely reasonable to say, if you are going to put a
condition on a permit, that condition has to have some
rough proportionate relationship to the harm that is
being done to the permit -- what -- that seems to me
perfectly sensible, that if they are going -- if they
are going to exact a condition, the condition has to
have some discrete proportional relationship to the
harm?
MR. WOLFSON: Justice Ginsburg, I think that
the district thought that they were acting roughly
proportional. In other words, we are -- we are not
saying that the government shouldn't act -- that
government should not act reasonably.
But I think that, when you force these cases
into court under the Nollan/Dolan framework, you have
a -- you have basically a mismatched and extraordinarily
complex situation. And you have -- you run right into
what this Court said in Lingle, which is that it is not
ordinarily the Court's -- the appropriate approach to
require the government to bear the burden of proof.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in Penn Coal v.
Mahon, the government didn't enter the property. It
didn't take the property in the physical sense of moving
in inappropriate. It just says, congratulations,
you have some coal under your land, and we hope you
enjoy it because you can't move it.
And we said that is a taking, that is a
regulation that goes too far. And it deprived, as
Justice Breyer indicated, the owner of investment-backed
expectations, although that word wasn't in Penn-Mahon.
MR. WOLFSON: Correct. And,
Justice Kennedy, nobody is disputing that Mr. Koontz
could have made the argument that the regulation goes
too far in the sense of the burden on his proposed
project. I mean, he had all of those arguments
available to him.
He bought the -- he says he bought the land
before the regulation went into effect. He had
investment-backed expectations and all the rest of it.
But that is not the claim that he is
advancing to this Court.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Wolfson.
Mr. Kneedler?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER,
FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I would like to emphasize, at the outset,
that Petitioner's argument that Nollan and Dolan should
apply in this context would -- would constitute a
radical change in the -- in the way standard generally
applicable regulatory programs are operated.
It is standard procedure, when someone
applies for a permit from the government, it is the
permit applicant's burden to establish that he complies
with the regulatory program.
Nollan and Dolan shift that burden to the
government. That has never been the case under
regulation, including land use regulation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What was taken in Nollan
and Dolan?
MR. KNEEDLER: If -- if --
JUSTICE SCALIA: In Nollan, was it the
easement that was taken?
MR. KNEEDLER: That is what -- if -- if the
permit had issued and the -- and an easement was
granted, yes, it was the easement.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but it -- wasn't what
was taken unreasonably the ability of this homeowner to
make the alterations to his house that he wanted to
make? He wanted to add another story and the court --
and the State said, you can't do it.
And its only basis for saying, you can't do
it was because you wouldn't give us the easement.
MR. KNEEDLER: The -- the basis of the --
the theory of Nollan and Dolan -- and the Court made
this clear in -- in Lingle -- and in Del Monte Dunes,
for that matter -- is those two cases apply in a
specific situation where there is an exaction of a right
of access, an easement for the public to enter the land
as a condition.
And the -- the reason for that, the Court
explained in Lingle -- there are really two reinforcing
points. The first was that there would be public
access, which is a permanent physical occupation, which
is one of -- one of the exceptions to the general Penn
Central test for regulatory takings.
The other is that it was a per se taking.
The -- it -- it was per se that the government could not
have acquired that easement for paying -- without paying
compensation; therefore, the government could not attach
as a condition to the granting of a permit that the
person convey something, unless it was proportional.
So the -- the theory began with the idea
that the easement itself would have been -- the taking
of that would have been a per se taking. This is a very
different situation because the other way in which
Petitioner's theory would constitute a radical departure
is that compliance with regulatory programs frequently,
maybe almost always, requires the expenditure of money.
If someone wants to build a power plant -- a
coal-fired power plant, he's going to have to install a
scrubber to protect the air, to prevent no -- diminution
of air quality. Constructing that costs money. It
can't be that the requirement to spend money to comply
with a regulatory program is itself a taking.
The taking would be --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what about --
what about the football stadium? Do they -- can you
pick a particular landowner? I mean, you took a case in
which there is no question, under Nollan and Dolan,
about the relationship, proportionality, and nexus.
Let's put those to one side because the
issue is whether Nollan and Dolan apply. Can the
government say, okay, you want a permit, we will give
you the permit, if you fund the new football stadium?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think, in that situation,
there would be a very substantial equal protection challenge
because one landowner is being singled out with no
rational basis --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the one
constitutional provision that is concerned with
protecting property owners from having to bear burdens
that should be borne by the public at large is not
applicable?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, that -- that -- it
applies when there is an identifiable property taken.
If the --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. Why isn't the
answer, yes, it is applicable? Of course, it's
applicable. I own a piece of land, and they have
significantly interfered with my investment-backed
expectation.
MR. KNEEDLER: Right, right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and to say that I
can't put a house on this because I'm supposed to pay
for a football field, which has nothing to do with it,
is as close to insisting that you have to have 4,000
columns of coal in your mine, so that you can never use
it, as I can think of. It's Holmes brought up-to-date.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, certainly --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, at least that
argument would be made --
MR. KNEEDLER: Certainly --
JUSTICE BREYER: And why wouldn't it be a
winning argument?
MR. KNEEDLER: Certainly, a Penn Central
argument could be made there, but I think that's very
different from a Nollan argument --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I agree with you --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- which -- which imposes
the -- the burden on the government and, basically,
treats the -- the payment of money as, itself, a taking.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Kneedler, can I go
back to the questions presented for a moment? The court
below did two separate rulings, I think.
One is there can't be a taking if the -- if
the claim is that it's of an undifferentiated money, not
a res. And I think you would agree with that.
If the only issue is an obligation to pay
money, that that's not a takings claim, correct?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. And this is not even an
obligation to pay money. It's an obligation to spend
money to come into compliance.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right. There was a
second holding, however, which really gets ellipsed by
the second, which is a denial of a permit doesn't permit
you to raise the Nollan/Dolan case. And it appears, to
me, even if there is an easement situation -- so, even
if there is an actual takings claim at issue, do you
agree with that first holding by the court below?
MR. KNEEDLER: We -- we think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assuming we narrow it
not to undifferentiated money, but is there a difference
between a denial or a grant?
MR. KNEEDLER: No. If the -- if the agency
decision is written where there is an express condition,
we don't think that it matters -- an express condition
satisfying Nollan and Dolan; in other words, an
exaction, a per se taking, we don't think it matters
whether the -- whether it's a permit grant or permit
denial.
There was no actual taking in the sense that
compensation would be owed, but it could be challenged
as an unconstitutional condition under the Nollan and
Dolan analysis.
But we think it's critical, when thinking
about that, that the -- that the permit denial -- that
only applies if the permit denial expressly is based on
the condition because, otherwise, you would get into a
situation of negotiations and what was discussed and --
and liability could turn on an exchange of ideas;
whereas it should turn on the formality of the agency's
final decision.
It's akin to the Williamson County final
decision requirements.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you agree -- your
friend on the other side cited a number of places in the
record, where he thought your condition was satisfied,
that the denial of the permit was expressly based on the
failure to comply with the offered conditions.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, if you look at the --
the orders denying the permit applications in the record
at -- I believe it's 49 to 51 and 59 to 61. In those
situations, it says the permits were denied because the
plaintiff did not give the reasonable assurances that
the statute requires in order to get the permit -- the
reasonable assurances of -- of no loss of wetlands
functions.
One of the ways --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't this unreal? I mean,
you are saying, all along, in the negotiations, the
agency says, if you do X, you get the permit. And X
is -- would -- would be an unconstitutional condition.
Okay. He refuses to do X. The permit is
denied with a general statement like this: The permit
is denied because he has refused to do the -- the
necessary mitigation.
Isn't it clear that the reason he's refused
to do the necessary mitigation, is he has refused the
last demand of the agency?
MR. KNEEDLER: But the ultimate standard
under the statute is whether he has provided reasonable
assurances. What assurances -- the way in which he goes
about it, whether offsite or onsite -- the offsite part
just arises because this is a wetlands case.
Normal regulation wouldn't raise the
offsite -- onsite problem. But the ultimate question is
he didn't carry his burden of establishing no net loss
of wetlands.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what he's going to
say, in part, is -- I guess, I did a little numbers from
your brief, the 37 million acres in Florida, say about
4 million are bodies of water and say a third of them
are built up, and we have 11 million that are wetland
and 11 million that aren't. That's crude.
So they're saying why in heaven's name are
we supposed to -- everybody wants to build. And why
should the people that happen to live in wetland have to
pay for all the other wetland? That's just coincidence.
So he is going to say that that is like the Shriners
Hospital. You are going to say, no, it isn't like the
Shriners Hospital.
Now, all I'm saying is isn't it at least an
issue, under the Takings Clause, whether it is or isn't?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think it's clearly not like
the Shriners -- the Shriners Hospital --
JUSTICE BREYER: I know you'll say that. He
will say that it is.
MR. KNEEDLER: But I did want to come back
to Justice Scalia's question. The permit -- permit
denials -- just general permit denials, the Court made
clear, in Del Monte Dunes, are not covered by Nollan and
Dolan. They are covered by Penn Central.
And the Court made clear, in Nollan, that
the Court could have denied the permit without attaching
the condition. We think it's important that the agency
always have that option.
And the third point is --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you may be right, but
you are making Nollan and Dolan a trap only for really
stupid districts -- you know, if they -- they say the
right words and then they are out from under it; isn't
that right?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I don't think so
because -- because there are situations in which an
agency actually wants to get the easement. But this
Court, in Lingle, made clear that -- that the general
rule is Penn Central, with only the two exceptions for
regulatory takings --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why should it matter whether
the -- whether the permitting authority says expressly
in the denial, "It's denied because you didn't do this,"
or it just says, "It's denied," but it's perfectly well
understood what was needed -- what they were going to
demand in order to get it.
MR. KNEEDLER: Because -- if may I answer,
because the agency has to reserve -- has to have the
ability to -- to deny the permit because the conditions
required by the statute were not met.
And Nollan and Dolan deal with formality and
the formality of conveyance of an easement. If there is
not a document that requires that, then the strict
requirements of -- for the narrow exception in Nollan
and Dolan do not apply.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Kneedler.
Mr. Beard, you have three minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL J. BEARD, II,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BEARD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
I would just like to point the Court -- and
particularly Justice Scalia, to pages 30 and 31 of our
brief on the merits where we describe, with citations to
the Nollan and Dolan, what precisely happened there.
I want to make sure that it's clear that
what they did there was not issue permits. They
approved with conditions, but the property owner still
had to satisfy the conditions in order to receive the
permit.
As to the question about --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What do we do with what
Mr. Kneedler says is a ruling in your favor on this
question, that all denials are subject to Nollan and
Dolan? What do we do with that?
I mean, what's the -- I see an enormous
flood gate here and one in which we are sending a signal
that, perhaps, States should be more quiet, rather than
more engaging. They should just say no because anything
they offer is going to be seen as an -- potentially, as
an unconstitutional taking.
They should just plain say no and not
explain why, not engage in any work with you to
mitigate.
MR. BEARD: Justice Sotomayor, I don't
believe that negotiations will suddenly break down, and
we will see a flurry of permit denials, if the Court
rules in our favor. What will happen, instead -- it's
true, I should say, they will lose flexibility in
demanding whatever it is that they want under the
Takings Clause.
They won't have any review. But the benefit
of applying our rule that says monetary exaction should
be treated like other exactions and be reviewed under
Nollan and Dolan --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they're not. People
are asked to pay taxes. Homeowners are asked to pay
taxes all the time; development fees, if they want to
develop something. People are subject to money
exactions all of the time in this society.
MR. BEARD: No question that we all are
subject, on a daily basis, to government demands that we
pay or that we have a financial obligation.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what happens in
just -- when the legislature passes a development fee?
Are you, now, saying that's subject to Nollan and Dolan,
too?
MR. BEARD: If the legislation requires an
agency who processes the permit to impose a fee in
exchange for a permit -- again, within the land-use
context, we are not talking about taxes, homeowners'
fees, we are talking within the discretionary land-use
process -- that is imposed there, then the risk of
coercion, undue influence, and the like arise, and
Nollan and Dolan should apply.
But I wanted to respond specifically to
Justice Breyer's questions about Penn Central. I think,
conceptually, there is an important difference between
the Unconstitutional Conditions Doctrine, which is what
we seek to apply here, and what would be a permit -- or
what would be a Penn Central claim.
The Unconstitutional Conditions Doctrine,
the offense there is the -- may I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish your thought.
MR. BEARD: The offense there is the
conditioning -- the improper conditioning of a permit.
It's not did the condition force me to lose the value in
my land. That's a very different question that a case
like Penn Central might answer, subsequent to a permit
denial.
The Unconstitutional Conditions Doctrine
focuses exclusively on the permit exaction and on the
conditioning, not on subsequent decisions by the
government, for example, to deny the permit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. BEARD: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel.
The case is now submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:09 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
adverse 8:7 49:24 55:21 areas 14:23 44:2
59:14 affirmed 7:15 18:22 23:8 2:2,5,8,12 3:4
agencies 6:14 appeals 7:15 12:17 20:6 back 3:19 7:25
31:11 51:20 22:12 arises 53:20 balance 27:9
55:11,22 58:8 37:21,22 46:21 Armstrong 36:15
Agins 30:11 applicant 6:13 aside 34:1 18:22
agree 20:22 22:2 applicant's 20:15,25 21:2 10:5,6 18:4
14:22 52:16 10:3 22:7 24:8 asks 24:6 basis 34:24
ahead 24:23 28:4,15 33:24 associated 23:18 43:11 47:17,19
air 48:22,23 52:22 19:24 20:1,1 beach 16:19
18:9 akin 52:14 applies 40:9,13 27:2,3 29:6 18:21
54:2 Alito 33:7,15 41:22 46:23 assumed 11:7 beaches 16:18
14:5 allow 27:22 46:19 47:22 19:11,16 43:22 45:11 49:17
alterations 49:8 56:4 51:17 Beard 1:16 2:3
52:2 amicus 1:22 applying 57:17 52:25 53:2,18 4:1,9,20 5:11
9:22 24:24 13:8 27:24 attached 4:10 8:18 9:12,18
27:12 analysis 12:21 45:10 18:19 24:23 10:9 11:1,10
42:8,23,24 26:9,13,15,16 55:16 14:8 16:11
14:4 analyze 11:14 approved 56:17 25:6 22:2,12 23:7
26:8,19 building 16:24 36:3 10:25 11:2 41:14
56:7,8 built 54:4 cause 5:15,20 13:22 14:1,2,9 communication
57:9,25 burden 11:24 6:1,5,5,9,11 15:6 17:21 4:23
59:10 17:25 28:15 22:16 35:20 21:8,9,10 27:6 comparison
46:24 47:1 14:2 15:5,15 35:24 38:5 23:17 24:2
3:8 49:17 29:16,19,22,23 51:2,5,14 34:20 39:12
56:9 burdensome 30:8 31:7,9,15 58:20 42:18 44:4,4,9
35:3 business 15:19 40:9,14 41:15 16:16 36:17 52:3
57:10 32:14 48:6 50:16 Clause 18:10 complex 45:8
C 58:16,20 59:3 32:21 34:17 48:18 51:8
9:2,23 call 29:10 31:6 30:2,6,24,25 44:7,9,10 26:22 33:5
care 41:18 49:12 23:20 25:9 conceptual
21:2,11 26:19 28:18,21,25 client's 15:14 conclude 9:19
19:8,15 27:24 29:19,19 29:11,18,21,25 close 50:7 concrete 33:21
20:17 29:21,22,23 30:4,18 31:2 coal 15:9 17:6 33:21
40:6 41:9 31:8,9,23 33:2 32:11 36:22 45:12,16 50:8 condemn 34:10
45:20 35:3 36:7 40:4 37:12,20 43:4 coal-fired 48:21 condemnation
50:4,11 40:9 41:6,14 43:14,19 46:9 coercion 58:13 14:7,9
53:25 42:11,17 47:2 46:15 49:2,15 coherence 30:9 condition 4:9
49:4 51:12 52:16 56:5,10 coincidence 5:22 11:7,21
56:13 cases 6:17 12:7 circumstance columns 50:8 20:25 21:12,14
case-specific citations 56:13 34:23,23 35:22 30:21 32:5
38:1 cash 34:22,24,25 citizens 37:8 comes 23:15 38:19 43:9,12
54:7 35:4,6,7,15 claim 4:8,11,18 Commission 44:18,18,22,22
48:11 context 11:15 courts 20:10 21:5 22:17 development
52:4 23:23,23 24:1 21:14 23:6 33:23 12:14 14:21
53:8 32:7 46:19 court's 12:21 51:11,19 52:1 23:18 24:23
59:1 58:10 34:13,13 45:10 52:7,8,19 25:3,8,9,22,23
58:25,25 contribute 54:23 denials 10:5,6 58:4
31:12 39:21 Coy 1:3 3:16 54:21,21 56:23 difference 26:10
17:24 34:15 critical 52:6 denied 13:18 58:17
19:4,7 convert 42:23 crude 54:5 25:14,18 28:4 different 9:6
25:22 convey 48:12 crux 12:17,19 33:16,20 34:7 15:20,22 20:14
conveyance 56:1 21:10 43:11 52:24 21:7 26:11
28:12 correct 4:1 6:10 culverts 14:23 53:10,11 54:25 35:5 48:16
29:6,8 11:20 14:8 curiae 1:22 2:10 55:17,18 50:18 59:2
31:4 23:14 24:5,16 46:13 deny 4:8 22:6 diminution
52:20 28:20,20 45:22 cut 38:17 55:23 59:8 48:22
56:17,18 51:5 denying 8:22 disagree 11:9,10
59:5 cost 14:13 22:18 D 52:22 disagreed 27:23
36:25 48:23 damage 28:1 departure 48:17 discretionary
59:9,11 day 3:23 13:5 discussed 52:10
28:3 deal 55:25 deprived 45:19 disputing 45:23
course 6:12 7:10 decide 4:25 derive 31:6 distinction 19:2
30:15 16:15 17:5 13:11,14 describe 56:13 district 1:7 3:5
4:3 6:21 49:24 22:5,6,6 34:13 designed 12:16 5:23 7:12,25
8:21 court 1:1,13 34:14 51:21 36:24 37:6 8:5,14,22 10:3
23:1 3:10 5:6 6:15 52:13,15 destroys 40:18 11:23 12:3,13
48:17 16:22 21:11,12 Del 47:21 54:22 determination 27:25 28:4
30:20 26:3 27:19 28:23 29:6 determine 13:6 45:1
30:8,11 32:23 30:21 34:18 13:8 24:17 districts 55:6
36:17 40:2 41:15 demanded 32:6 develop 4:6 23:2 28:2
44:6 45:6,9 demanding 10:14,20 12:5 ditch 14:24
47:20 48:1 demands 29:7 37:24 40:23,25 58:18,21 59:5
54:21,24,25 denial 4:10,21 developed 17:12 doing 43:17
7:19 11:7 46:4 evenly 37:8 extended 32:24 first 10:10 29:15
14:1 either 8:11 everybody extending 35:8,8 29:16 30:23
16:1 18:15 25:21 16:17,18 54:7 extensive 36:19 33:10 34:3
18:15 26:19 33:1 evidence 9:20 extent 3:11 4:22 35:2 39:1 48:3
20:24 43:18 exact 44:22 extraordinarily 51:15
24:4 eliminate 14:22 exacted 42:13 45:7 Fish 41:14
14:23 exacting 42:6 five 12:9 38:7
eliminating 9:5 exaction 6:16,18 F flexibility 57:13
29:4 ellipsed 51:10 7:1,2 25:10 Fabulous 36:10 flood 57:1
32:2,4,5 embodies 27:7 47:23 51:24 faced 40:3 Florida 7:16
emphasize 57:17 59:6 faces 26:20 21:12 22:22
35:24 46:17 exactions 3:13 fact 5:23 7:17 27:20 28:11
42:4,11 enable 18:3,5 23:21 37:7 8:13 10:6 43:14,15 54:2
46:18 engage 57:7 42:12 57:18,24 12:23 17:6 flurry 57:11
49:5 engages 30:16 exactly 33:19 factual 7:20 focuses 59:6
51:23 engaging 57:3 40:3 failure 52:20 following 40:8
54:23 enhance 14:24 example 5:3 fair 34:8,10 football 31:13
56:4 enhancement 11:16,17 24:11 fairness 16:14 32:16 37:2,4
57:19 18:9 34:3 37:2 59:8 fall 43:20 37:21,24 38:2
enhancements exception 56:3 far 15:10,15 49:3,10 50:6
enormous 56:25 excess 7:19 45:19,25 forced 37:14
32:21 47:24 52:11 58:9 Federal 28:22 former's 39:25
entirely 21:7 10:6 59:6 43:16,20,21 18:22 22:14
7:18 8:22 equal 30:24 38:5 expectations 19:25 23:11 four 12:24
9:10,17 38:22,23 49:12 40:18 41:2 fill 24:13 framework
18:20 ESQ 1:16,18,20 45:21 46:5 filling 14:22 15:16,18 17:8
25:4,5 2:3,6,9,13 expend 33:4 final 8:22 14:4 20:1 40:8,21
47:8,10 essentially 31:5 expenditure 22:6 52:13,14 40:22 41:5,6,7
34:14,19 48:19 finance 3:17 41:10,18 45:6
51:13 establish 11:25 experts 22:19 financial 58:2 free 8:16
56:1 11:26 28:14 explain 20:15 find 15:3 frequently
establishing explained 48:2 findings 7:20 friend 32:3
46:12 et 40:20 expressly 52:8 fine 18:2 front 15:23
16:5,20 17:15 hard 32:21 impact 4:13 8:7 insisting 50:7
34:9,15 44:17 harm 42:4 44:19 13:7 17:25 install 14:20
48:21 44:24 24:19 28:17 48:21
53:10 35:24 36:5,21 Hodel 29:21 33:1 interferes 41:1
55:12 37:13,16 38:5 hold 15:9 impose 30:24,25 intruded 27:12
46:20 39:6,16 40:19 51:15 imposed 3:13 invasion 40:10
7:22 44:11,14 45:3 50:9 13:25 17:2 investment-ba...
9:1,12,14 45:4,11,13 homeowner 23:5,9 37:7 40:18 41:1,20
22:11,22 46:23 47:2 47:13 38:3 39:18 45:20 46:5
48:8,10 49:9 homeowners 58:12 50:1
11:17 59:8 Honor 4:20 5:19 50:20 irrational 36:20
government's 6:6 9:18 11:11 imposition 5:21 Irving 29:22
19:4,6 grant 43:18 27:10 impossible 31:5 issue 20:2,22
24:7 51:19,25 hope 45:16 improper 58:25 26:9,15 49:8
29:13 granted 8:16 Hospital 40:24 improve 8:1 51:4,14 54:14
33:10,12 18:18 25:15 54:11,12,16 improvement 56:16
34:8 33:16 34:7 house 16:17,24 8:12 issued 19:1
40:24 42:5 47:11 25:3 34:23 improvements 24:22 26:4,5
47:18 granting 33:11 36:7,14 47:14 22:9 26:12 43:6
52:25 48:11 50:5 improving 8:8 47:10
grows 16:3 hypotheticals including 19:3 56:8
13:19 guidance 10:16 increase 9:22 Johns 1:6 3:5
26:6 I indicated 45:20 Joint 22:12
43:15 H idea 4:21 48:13 individual 25:8 JR 1:3
half 8:5 ideas 52:11 37:14 39:7,9 judicial 33:22
20:18 54:8 57:12 49:21 4:12 5:7 jurisdiction
45:19,24 happened 7:2 II 1:16 2:3,13 individuals 3:13 22:23
57:9,20 58:3 3:16 5:3 10:1 legislation 58:7 59:14
4:2,5,15 59:11 28:2 45:23 legitimacy 7:10 51:24
justification Koontz's 8:20 let's 3:19 13:14 McMahon
7:9,22 41:21,25 42:1 22:7 27:25 38:12,12,13 40:15
9:1,12,14 justify 44:15 49:7 mean 10:17
11:5 L liability 52:11 14:21 18:13
12:3 K land 3:14 4:7 limit 30:19 28:10 29:21
KAGAN 10:9 8:9 14:21 15:6 limitation 44:7 31:7,24 32:20
14:6 11:5,12 23:7 15:7,8,20,22 limits 28:23 35:7,13 36:7
16:11,12 23:25 24:11 16:16,16,21,22 Lingle 30:8 44:6 39:5,11,17
17:5,14 Kagan's 13:14 17:17 21:6 45:9 47:21 40:2 46:1 49:4
Kaiser-Aetna 23:1,13,23 48:2 55:12 50:11 53:5
29:23 25:17 26:7 list 21:18 56:25
20:17 keep 31:18 31:6,12,22,22 litigated 21:10 Meaning 7:1
22:11 Kennedy 12:3 33:13,17 34:9 31:8 means 7:6 19:4
23:7,25 13:2 26:24 34:10 39:9 little 54:1 20:3
26:4 31:10,14 32:1 40:23,25 42:25 live 54:8 means-ends
38:12,22 39:1 44:5 45:16 logical 35:13 30:15
45:12,23 46:3 47:3,24 long 39:2 measure 42:25
Kennedy's 49:25 59:2 look 7:23 11:15 meets 28:16
29:11,18 13:23 landowner 14:16 15:11 mentioned 21:5
30:4 kind 4:17 14:1 10:18,19 27:21 19:8 20:9 27:2merits 56:13
31:2,10 20:7 21:8,8 28:12,14 30:7 34:17 40:17,19met 55:24
44:2 32:13,13,25 52:21 miles 12:24
33:7 kinds 11:4 33:1,22 37:3 looking 43:21 million 31:12
34:2,5,6 Kneedler 1:20 37:17 38:1,4,6 lose 25:17,17 32:15 54:2,3,4
35:3 2:9 46:11,12 39:19,20 49:4 57:13 59:1 54:5
46:15 47:6,9 49:13 loss 3:21 6:22 mind 7:4
47:19 49:11,20 landowners 53:2,23 minding 32:14
37:12,20 50:3,10,13,16 36:20 38:8 lost 17:19 29:19 mine 15:9 50:8
50:20,23 51:6 39:18 low 22:18 minimal 9:20
51:16,20 52:21 land-use 58:9,11 lower 20:10 minutes 56:7
40:6 53:16 54:15,19 large 49:18 Lucas 31:7,15 mismatch 42:20
55:9,21 56:6 Laughter 18:23 31:19 40:13 43:2
42:9,14 56:22 19:14,22 42:15 mismatched
know 5:4,10,11 laundry 21:18 M 45:7
45:12 14:18 15:10,12 law 10:1 14:18 magical 34:22 missing 16:9
46:9 23:9 26:25 17:22 28:19 Mahon 45:13 mitigate 4:19
47:4,7 29:18 30:9 36:19 making 55:5 5:4 12:10 28:1
49:2,15 32:22 33:23 lawful 11:22 man 10:24 42:6 57:8
50:4,11 34:19 38:4,4 lawsuit 15:4 management mitigating 4:16
39:18 40:2 leave 8:1,11 1:6 3:5 14:20 mitigation 3:21
52:16 41:7 54:17 11:26 15:9 market 34:8,10 3:24 4:2,8,16
54:17 55:6 leaves 10:18 matter 1:12 7:11 4:22 5:1 6:22
55:4,15 known 5:23 left 33:8 9:25 17:22 7:6,17,18 8:24
10:7,15 8:19 22:3 O option 21:18 27:16 56:8
52:10 53:6 O 2:1 3:1 55:2 pay 23:16 24:2
12:24 57:10 obligated 4:21 options 9:3 22:4 24:14 33:1
14:13 net 6:22 7:7 28:13 oral 1:12 2:2,5,8 34:10 37:3
20:23 53:23 obligation 4:18 3:7 27:16 38:20 44:11
22:17,24 never 5:13,14 35:9 51:4,7,7 46:12 50:5 51:4,7
23:3 47:2 50:8 58:2 order 10:13 22:3 54:9 57:21,21
27:21,23 new 31:13 49:10 obtain 44:3 23:16 42:6 58:2
nexus 16:23 obviously 39:16 53:1 55:20 paying 48:9,9
35:9 5:20 6:12,15 offense 58:22,24 ordinarily 45:10 15:5,15 16:2
7:19 11:7,20 offer 4:2,22,24 outset 46:17 17:8,9,13 20:9
33:1,4 16:1,8,12 8:24 13:17 overlay 36:19 29:19,22,23
36:13 18:14,18,24 57:4 owed 52:3 30:7 31:7,9,15
39:4 20:24 23:12,22 offered 4:5,7 owner 16:13 31:17,19,22
24:4,15,17,21 8:14,15 14:12 24:7 37:23 40:9,14 41:15
51:2,5,7 24:25,25 25:1 16:4 52:20 45:20 56:17 45:12 48:5
57:23 25:20,21 26:8 offering 9:2 16:5 owners 36:24 50:16 54:23
32:2,4,5 33:8 offset 4:14 8:7 owns 37:4 59:3
26:14,16 50:18 51:23 53:19,19,22 56:12 55:18
52:4 54:22,24 oh 8:4 15:14 paid 35:9 perform 20:23
56:3 36:9 parcel 12:8 21:12 22:8,17
45:6 51:12 43:19 49:9 54:1 9:15 10:23
normally 13:10 onerous 31:5 particularly 18:4,17,19
42:3 north 16:19 one-third 33:12 parties 27:20,23 21:5 22:6,17
Norwood 34:14 33:17 parts 20:20 23:5,22 24:1
24:14 number 33:15 29:8 53:19,22 passes 58:4 25:15,21 26:4
33:12,16 52:25 17:18 35:7,8 45:25 54:20 56:20,23
34:7 plan 13:16 42:10,14 53:22 proposition 43:7 57:25 59:2
42:5 plant 48:20,21 procedure 46:22 protect 48:22 questioning
play 12:20 29:10 process 13:20 protecting 49:17 27:12
46:23
47:10 please 3:10 30:23 32:21 38:5 39:3 42:1 40:2,5 50:24
49:9,10 27:19 46:16 33:23 43:16 42:2 49:12 58:16
12:16 15:1 processes 58:8 proved 19:20 quiet 57:2
30:11 produced 20:19 provide 10:7 quite 20:3
35:13,14 23:5 provided 22:4 quote 10:5 22:25
56:19 43:5 55:3 profits 17:19 53:17
58:8,9 56:11 program 46:25 providing 10:21 R
59:3 pointed 18:21 48:25 provision 36:23
programs 46:21 37:10 39:20 radical 46:20
22:25 policy 6:23,25 project 9:4,9,16 provisions 28:19raise 21:8 31:15
52:24 7:3,10 10:12 9:22 10:8 46:1 43:21,22 31:17 40:1,4
12:5 24:13 proof 42:22 public 16:14,23 51:12 53:21
24:6 portion 39:21 properties 22:1 24:8 28:16 range 8:15,19
55:16 posing 5:12 property 3:16 47:24 48:3 22:18,19
26:6,17 36:2 43:23 10:14 15:24,25 pure 34:15 rationality
48:12 potentially 57:4 16:13 17:3,11 purpose 16:23 32:22
2:4,14 3:8 precisely 56:14 32:8,15 36:24 put 4:15 18:8 10:18 24:17
42:20 56:9 predicated 37:5,7,23 24:8 38:13,13 31:11 33:2,19
46:18 predicating 39:3,21 40:10 50:5 51:10 55:5
43:18 40:11 44:12,12 p.m 59:13 reason 15:19
presented 50:24 49:21 56:17 Q 53:13
48:4 9:16 12:6 44:23 45:2 question 10:10 44:17 52:25
pretrial 10:4 44:19 20:12,16,19,24 26:25 56:8
23:13 22:13 proposal 10:15 21:7 23:4,10 recall 6:15
prevent 6:17 10:15,16,17 26:24 28:25 receive 56:18
14:17 30:10 41:5,10,17 47:17 53:6 seized 44:12
require 27:20 42:16 45:8 54:6,13 58:5 seizing 36:5
52:18,22 45:11 47:23 50:3,3 says 4:17 5:25 sending 57:1
12:22 22:24 rights 25:17 11:14 13:15 45:25 52:2
53:11 44:10,14 48:24 29:18,25 30:4 53:7 55:16,18 33:25 40:14
requirements 30:18 31:2 56:22 57:17 sets 22:14
37:18,21 res 51:3 rough 44:19 26:4,13 31:17 31:11
40:17 reserve 27:9 roughly 40:8 31:21 34:21 shows 21:17,22
45:19,24 55:22 45:1 35:3,11,14,17 Shriners 40:24
47:3,3 respective 13:6 rubric 29:3 35:20 36:1,5,9 54:10,12,16,16
respond 58:15 rule 55:13 57:17 36:12,16 38:7 side 5:25 6:4
21:6 27:17 46:14 rulings 50:25 41:23,25 42:9 significant
33:3 Respondent's run 45:8 42:14 47:4,7 41:20
42:24 8:4 running 26:25 47:12 53:5 significantly
48:6 rest 3:22 9:9,17 31:18 56:12 41:1 50:1
55:14 46:5 R.Q 1:18 2:6 Scalia's 54:20 similar 38:2
29:17 S scrubber 48:22 singled 16:13
33:23 57:16 satisfied 52:18 second 51:10,11 37:11 45:8
49:6 right 3:25 4:18 56:18 15:16 16:1,2 49:11 51:13
13:11 14:21 saying 6:8,11 20:9 25:18 situations 33:10
36:19 39:21 supporting 1:22 tell 4:25 three 33:10 56:7
24:1 stated 6:23 10:12 12:3 terrible 15:13 57:24
22:15 2:10 46:13 50:5 54:7 46:8,9 56:5,10 totally 31:23
36:4 57:2 Supreme 1:1,13 59:9,10 tradition 39:2
35:10 53:17 55:24 22:22 25:25 trap 55:5
stop 43:17,17 sure 7:6 10:10 theory 47:20 treated 57:18
13:10,13 35:14 56:15 thing 19:12 21:6 trial 7:14 9:19
17:14 stormwater surprises 41:12 26:14 10:4 12:20
51:9,17 14:20 system 14:20,24 things 15:3 21:11
57:9,20 story 47:15 21:18,23 36:23 tried 30:8
straightforward T 40:17 trucks 38:16
38:4,5 strike 39:14 16:22 34:23 11:19 12:1,4 29:7 39:14
24:3,10,15,16 taken 5:10 11:8 29:1,2,4,14,15 trying 18:1
57:23 58:1,5 35:22 44:5 32:19,19,20,23 43:19
10:3 59:12,14 takes 41:18 37:25 38:9,10 52:11,12
37:2,4 substantial 31:3,3 34:24 44:2,25 45:5 48:2 50:25
38:2 49:12 35:8 36:23 49:11 50:9,17 55:13
substantive 44:7 37:6,10 41:3 50:25 51:3,16 type 14:9 37:11
46:20,22 subsurface 51:5,14 54:14 58:16 U
14:20 55:14 57:15 thinking 52:6 ultimate 53:16
user 24:9 ways 8:6,6,15 39:23 40:1 2 33:15
17:2,7,24 v 1:5 3:5 29:21 went 7:18 14:19 45:22 46:10 3
26:20 45:12 20:9 24:22 word 45:21 3 2:4
33:25 value 31:6,22,22 25:16 32:12 words 4:23 3.7 8:20 22:7
34:8,10 40:11 46:4 20:21 33:19 30 15:2 56:12
53:8 57:5 44:5 59:1 wetland 54:4,8,9 45:2 51:23 31 56:12
59:5 various 22:4 wetlands 3:21 55:7 37 54:2
16:8 view 23:2 10:13 12:6,6 worth 39:9,21 4 54:3
28:25 Village 34:14 12:10,14 13:8 wouldn't 5:10 4,000 50:7
34:21 violate 32:20,21 18:10 24:13 5:10,11 6:3,3 46 2:10
43:7 violated 7:19 27:22 28:2 9:2 14:3 47:18 49 52:23
53:24 written 51:21
27:3,4 50 3:17 12:9
55:19 12:13 41:7,8 43:12
22:9
51:2,18 17:23 18:1
18:22 we've 23:11 $
11:2 12:8 36:14 $10,000 14:14
22:13
22:13
37:23 41:7 Williamson $50,000 40:24
57:14,22 1
46:13 41:3
10 12:6,6,15
48:20 100-acre 12:8
55:11 11 54:4,5
27:18 28:9,20
11:06 1:14 3:2
47:12 13 8:4
32:19 33:14,18
21:3,7 34:4,12 35:2
14:23
23:23 35:12,16,19,23
26:21,21 36:4,10,16
46:20 22:20
37:12,25 38:9
50:8 48:16 53:18 38:21,25 39:15 2
