IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
US AIRWAYS, INC., IN ITS CAPACITY :
AS FIDUCIARY AND PLAN :
ADMINISTRATOR OF THE :
US AIRWAYS, INC. EMPLOYEE : No. 11-1285
BENEFITS PLAN, :
Petitioner :
v. :
JAMES E. McCUTCHEN, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 27, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
NEAL KUMAR KATYAL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, in support of
neither party.
MATTHEW W.H. WESSLER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
NEAL KUMAR KATYAL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 4
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae, 24
in support of neither party
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MATTHEW W.H. WESSLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 34
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
NEAL KUMAR KATYAL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning in Case 11-1285, US Airways v. McCutchen.
Mr. Katyal.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL KUMAR KATYAL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KATYAL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
ERISA permits plan fiduciaries to seek
appropriate equitable relief to enforce the terms of the
plan.
Six years ago, this Court, in Sereboff,
concluded that reimbursement actions by ERISA plans,
such as the one at issue here, seek equitable liens by
agreement. And because the plan's claim here is one for
an equitable lien by agreement, that means one parcel of
equitable defenses, those derived from unjustment
enrichment, offer no help to Respondents.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Katyal, if you go to
equity, why aren't you bound by equity?
MR. KATYAL: We certainly are, Justice
Sotomayor, bound by equity. Our contention is not that,
once you say the magic words "equitable lien by
agreement," that somehow transforms into a "we win" as
plaintiffs at all.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but that's exactly
what your bottom line is, which is you have someone else
do the work for you and you don't pay them.
MR. KATYAL: Quite to the contrary, Justice
Sotomayor, our position is that the rules of equity bind
equitable liens by agreement, just as they bind anything
else. We're not trying to say that the equity
doesn't apply --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why does your lien
have priority to the attorney's lien that is normally
created at the commencement of the litigation? Why is
the attorney bound by the agreement you signed with the
beneficiary?
MR. KATYAL: So our position is that the
attorney doesn't -- there is no lien created with the
attorney; that, once Mr. Sereboff signed -- entered into
an agreement with US Air, that agreement said --
provided for 100 percent reimbursement rights.
And there is no -- essentially, what
happened is Mr. Sereboff -- excuse me -- Mr. -- Mr.
McCutchen double-promised his money. He promised it
first to -- first to the US Airways plan, and then he
promised it to -- to his attorneys.
And that's a problem that he might have with
his attorneys, although, as I understand the facts here,
maybe that debt has been forgiven, but it is not
something that creates an independent lien on the money
that's at issue here.
That is, the rules in equity say that it is
the agreement that controls -- when we're talking about
an -- when we're talking about an equitable lien by
agreement --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: With Sereboff, that
you -- you referred to, that -- that certainly describes
the lien you rely on, but there's a footnote toward the
end that leaves open the make-whole doctrine and, I
assume, also the common fund doctrine, so -- so it's --
it's an open question.
MR. KATYAL: Right. So our position is not
that Sereboff's letter controls this case. We do think
the reasoning of Sereboff essentially does decide the
question because what Sereboff said, Justice Ginsburg --
and this is at page 368 of the opinion in the text -- it
said -- the Sereboffs had argued the make-whole
doctrine.
And the -- in response, what this Court said
is, quote, "Mid Atlantic's claim is not considered
equitable because it is a subrogation claim.
Mid Atlantic's action qualifies as an equitable remedy
because it is indistinguishable from an action to
enforce an equitable lien established by agreement of
the sort epitomized by our decision in Barnes.
Mid Atlantic need not characterize its action as a
freestanding action for equitable subrogation.
Accordingly, the parcel of equitable defenses the
Sereboffs claim accompany any such action are beside the
point." Beside the point.
And our position is, once the Court has
decided that the type of action that is at issue here is
an equitable lien by agreement, the relevant doctrine --
and this is a further answer to you, Justice Sotomayor --
that the Court is to look to is how are equitable liens
by agreement evaluated in equity?
And those rules in equity say that, again,
the general rules of equity apply and govern that; but
the one place -- the one set of defenses that aren't
governed, are those that sound an unjust enrichment.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I recognize that
we're talking about a matter of Federal law here. What
about the law of most of the States?
Suppose there's an agreement with an insurer
and an insured, that says the insured gets 100 percent
of the proceeds. I would think that the law of most
States gives a superior lien to the attorney for the
contingent fee, notwithstanding the agreement.
I'm not sure of that. It's just an
assumption.
MR. KATYAL: That -- that is true, in some
subrogation States. However, even with respect to that,
when you have -- as long as it's not abrogated by
statute or something like that. But if you simply have
an agreement by an insured and it provides for 100
percent reimbursement and abrogation of the common fund,
even there, Justice Kennedy, the -- the agreement is
enforced.
So State Farm v. Clinton, which is a case
cited in our brief, as long as -- as well as the Dobbs
case and other decisions -- the Arkansas Supreme Court
in 1969, the Arkansas court in 1931 -- have all said
that, if you have an insurance agreement that abrogates
the common fund doctrine, that that agreement is
enforced.
And, here, of course, we're dealing --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where is that
abrogation -- where is that abrogation in this -- not
the plan description, but the plan itself -- what clear
language in the plan bars the -- the --
MR. KATYAL: Justice Ginsburg, the -- the
district court at pages 30A to 32A of the petition
appendix had two pages that found the agreement clear
and unambiguous with respect to abrogation of the common
fund doctrine. And the plan itself is found at Joint
Appendix page 20.
That finding by the district court was never
appealed to the Third Circuit. It was not appealed to
this Court. And, indeed, the brief in opposition
conceded this issue.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That -- that's the summary
of the plan that's at A20. That's not the plan --
MR. KATYAL: Yes. The summary plan
description is at page --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm asking about the plan
itself because the plan controls if there's a
discrepancy.
MR. KATYAL: Exactly. And so the plan
itself was submitted, I believe, a few days ago. The
Respondents have now made an issue of it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. And I -- and I
don't -- you -- you make a distinction between
reimbursement clause and the subrogation clause. And
this -- as far as I can tell from the plan, is no
reimbursement clause.
The only one that's there is labeled
"subrogation." And I looked at what's in the plan, and
I don't see language that clearly abrogates the common
fund.
MR. KATYAL: Your Honor, I suppose that --
that they could have made this an issue when they
appealed the district court's finding on this. They
didn't. And, indeed, there was discovery --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I mean, you -- you
want us to decide a case without looking at the plan?
I have before me the same language that I
believe Justice Ginsburg is looking at, and I think
she's quite correct, that the word "abrogation," of
course, is not used, but neither is the concept.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't think we took this
case to review the plan. Is -- is that what the Supreme
Court took the case for, to say what this particular
individual plan said?
MR. KATYAL: Absolutely not, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Had that -- had that point
been raised, we would not have taken the case.
MR. KATYAL: And much to the -- and much to
the contrary, Justice Scalia, exactly, this is the way
that they framed the brief in opposition. The question
presented is this: "Whether a seriously injured ERISA
beneficiary must reimburse his ERISA plan for
100 percent of his medical expenses simply because the
plan language so provides."
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, "simply because the
plan language." I mean, obviously, we have to look at
the plan language to see what the -- you're -- you're
relying on the plan language. And you cite the summary,
but you don't cite the main plan.
MR. KATYAL: Two things, Justice Kennedy.
First, that brief in opposition goes on to say that that
plan was clear with respect to the common fund doctrine
and others at page 5.
But, second, if you're concerned --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, are you
conceding --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sorry. Maybe --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the plan doesn't say
it?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me, please. The
second point?
MR. KATYAL: The second point is, even if
you are concerned about any discrepancy, point -- 4.2 of
the actual plan itself -- and this is page 22 of the PDF
that was submitted by -- lodged by my friends on the
other side a few days ago -- has essentially an
anti-Amara clause in it.
It says that the benefits that are provided
under the plan are those put forth in the summary plan
description. So there is no discrepancy between the SPD
in the plan in this case, unlike in Amara where there
very well was a discrepancy.
So here --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry, the phrase
that you just read says that the benefits are the same.
It doesn't say that the reimbursement and subrogation
language are the same.
So go back to Justice Ginsburg's question
and point out in the plan what words you're relying
upon, not the summary, but the plan.
MR. KATYAL: So the plan has, in 4.7, two
things. It has, "The plan" -- quote, "The plan shall
have the right to recover from any participant the
amount of any benefits paid by this plan for expenses
which were recovered from or paid by a source, other
than this plan."
And then later, in 4.6, it says,
participants are -- quote, "are obligated to avoid doing
anything that would prejudice the plan's right of
recovery."
So I don't think that there is any
discrepancy, Justice Sotomayor. And to the extent that
this Court were concerned about it, there were 4 years
for them to have made this an issue, but this is just
about as procedurally barred as -- as anything --
JUSTICE BREYER: So if I were -- if I were
Joe Smith, and a plan -- the plan pays me 100 -- I have
medical expenses of $100,000. And, actually, the ­-
the -- there was a driver who caused this problem. And
later, I collect 100,000, but I have to pay 50,000 to
get the 100,000.
So I am left with 50,000 net because I had
to pay my lawyers, I had to pay expert witnesses, there
were a lot of different things I had to pay. I'm left
with 50,000 now. So in comes the plan and says, we
want 100,000. I say, what? Then I look at the
language. The language allows them to get back expenses
which were recovered from the third-party.
I didn't recover 100,000 from the
third-party. I recovered 50,000 from the third-party
because it cost me 50 to get the 100.
Now, if I were a judge and listening to
that, I'd say, assuming they wanted a reasonable
interpretation of this language, it sounds pretty
reasonable to me.
MR. KATYAL: All right. And,
Justice Breyer, if you were the district court judge in
this case, I suppose you could have reached that result.
The district court here --
JUSTICE BREYER: It's a little tough, since
nobody had the plan.
MR. KATYAL: Well, they -- they had the
summary plan description, and they did not make an
issue of it. They had all sorts of discovery
requests, but never made a request for that --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But, I mean,
wouldn't the normal result of such a case, like any
contract case, where you have language, even if it was
the word "any," it doesn't mean wheat grown on Mars,
okay?
And so you'd say -- if it says you can
recover anything, that "any expense," it means, yes, you
can recover that which was paid, but not money that you
had to pay to get the amount paid.
MR. KATYAL: Justice Breyer, we absolutely
agree that a plan could be written in order to
embrace --
JUSTICE BREYER: But this is a plan that
they wrote and that US Air --
MR. KATYAL: -- but I think it would be
highly unusual for this Court, indeed, I think,
procedurally unavailable for this Court to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, I guess your
opponent could have raised that point.
MR. KATYAL: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And didn't raise it.
MR. KATYAL: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And we took this case on
the assumption that there is an issue of law involved --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So I can --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and not -- not on the
assumption that --
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the issue of law?
The issue of law is what happens if we have a plan which
says, Joe Smith, my employee, if you have to spend
$90,000 to get back 92,000, you have to give us back all
92, even though you only have 2 in pocket. And we are
supposed to assume that's what the contract said. Is
that right?
And then -- and then we say, now, can you
override that with the principle of equity? Is that the
issue you see before us?
MR. KATYAL: So, again, we're not overriding
with the principle of equity. We're saying that the
rules of equity, if they have in the plan an abrogation
of the common fund, as that is here, in the way this
case comes to the Court, then that is what settles the
question.
Now, you could have a Sereboff plan, which
says the reverse, which says, we're going to have a
common fund doctrine and avoid that problem at the
outset. The parties evaluate the valuation of the
transfer of assets at the outset, and that's what
controls. And if they want to buy into the common fund,
as this Court said in Sereboff, that's absolutely
enforceable.
And so it's not a contract around, Justice
Sotomayor, doctrines of equity. It's simply a
reflection of the general rule that, in equity, if --
when we're talking about equitable liens by agreement,
it is the agreement that controls, that starts the ball
game.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Was the plan
available to the employee at any time before this
litigation?
MR. KATYAL: Sure. If they had asked for
the plan, it could have been provided to them. They
have --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are they -- are they
advised that they can ask for the plan?
MR. KATYAL: I -- I'm not quite sure about
that. I will look into that and try and get you an
answer on that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought it took most
of the litigation for the plan to be provided.
MR. KATYAL: Justice Sotomayor, at the
outset, they asked for the summary plan description or
the plan. The summary plan description was provided.
Only --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You say, "they." I assume
you mean their lawyer?
MR. KATYAL: Their lawyer.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This is not -- you know, an
ignorant layman who knows nothing about the law.
MR. KATYAL: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The lawyer, you say, did
not ask for the plan.
MR. KATYAL: And -- and I should say, the
minute that US Air found out that a tort -- a
plaintiff's lawyer was hired, they sent a letter to that
lawyer saying, we assert a right of reimbursement.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Katyal, could I ask
you about the legal argument that you are making, the
distinction you are making between reimbursement
agreements and subrogation agreements, which you
think -- seem to think is critical here. And -- you
know, once you put it in one box, rather than another,
some result follows -- different results follow.
MR. KATYAL: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So -- so how do you know
whether you have a reimbursement agreement or a
subrogation agreement? And what follows from that
categorization?
MR. KATYAL: So, Justice Kagan, there are
two very distinct rights. Subrogation is the right to
stand in someone else's shoes. And so the insured --
the plan says, we are going to inherit all of the
benefits and burdens of the insured in bringing an
action. It's a vicarious -- it's a kind of vicarious
notion.
Reimbursement's an entirely different
concept. It's the idea that, look, we're not obligated
to give you this money because we're not at fault in
this accident, but we're going to essentially advance it
to you, but you've got to reimburse us for it. And
so --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So if this were a
subrogation agreement, what would follow?
MR. KATYAL: So if it were a subrogation
agreement, I think my friend's case on the other side
gets a lot stronger because there are subrogation cases
that -- that have different rules.
But when you talk about reimbursement, which
is not the right to stand in someone's shoes, but a
first priority absolute agreement between the parties to
get money, it's just simply a dispute about that money.
And you can't --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So if your friend's argument
would get a lot stronger if it were a subrogation
agreement, how do we tell that this agreement is a
reimbursement agreement, rather than -- are we supposed
to just take that because that's the way the Court --
it's come to us? Or -- or is there an argument about
why there is a reimbursement?
MR. KATYAL: There is an argument. And,
indeed, all I think you have to do, Justice Kagan, is
look at what happened in Sereboff because, in Sereboff,
you had essentially the same thing, a plan that had both
a reimbursement provision and a subrogation provision.
And the -- the beneficiaries in Sereboff were saying,
hey, this is subrogation, this is subrogation.
And the language that I've read to
Justice Ginsburg at page 368, as well as earlier
language in the opinion, said, no, this is actually a
claim for an equitable lien by agreement that does not
sound in subrogation, that sounds in reimbursement.
And so all you have to do here is precisely
what this Court unanimously did in Sereboff, which is to
say, look at the nature of the action, is this an action
that seeks personal liability, does it specify a
particular fund, the typical hallmarks of an action for
an equitable lien by agreement; and, if those are
present, as they are here, that is enough.
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you, in effect, asking
for a windfall because Mr. McCutchen and his attorneys
didn't understand what ERISA means in this context?
If they understood that things would work
out the way you think they should work out and they saw
that the limits of the insurance policies against which
they could collect were $110,000, wouldn't they have
realized that this was a suit that wasn't worth
pursuing? There would be no point in doing it because
nothing would be -- nothing would be gained for
Mr. McCutchen or for the attorneys.
MR. KATYAL: Not at all, Justice Alito. Two
things. One, the rule on ERISA -- and this rule has
been the rule in the Third Circuit since Federal Express
v. Ryan in 1996, this is a long-established rule -- if
an attorney comes and takes a case, knowing that there
is a -- an ERISA plan at stake, seems to me they're at
least on inquiry notice that there would be some
sort of --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, perhaps they should
have realized it. But, if they realized it, they have
no incentive to pursue this litigation or to pursue the
tort decision --
MR. KATYAL: Not so. This is both in our
brief, as well as the Blue Cross amicus brief.
What usually happens in these situations is
that an agreement is struck in advance, before the
lawsuit is filed, between the plan and the plaintiff's
attorney to reach some accommodation. After all, the
plan has an incentive in some sort of action being
brought --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In this case, he
wrote -- the attorney wrote to you any number of times
and finally said, look, unless you come and tell me what
your position is, I'm going to go forward.
So what are attorneys supposed to do in
those situations, just drop the lawsuit?
MR. KATYAL: Your Honor, I don't think that
quite is an accurate statement of the facts. That was
precisely what the district court evaluated on the
summary judgment motion. They had made a big issue
about our failure to communicate and so on. The
district court rejected all of those arguments --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Rejected it because it
had nothing to do with the agreement, but it didn't
reject them as a factual matter, that you were
contacted.
MR. KATYAL: I do -- I do think that there
were lots -- and this is in Joint Appendix, pages 50 to
64 -- lots of communications between the two.
Now, here's -- there was one place where
there wasn't communication, which was they went and
negotiated a secret settlement of $100,000. And when US
Air found out about it --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, were they
supposed to -- if the insurance limit was $100,000, are
you suggesting that that was a bad-faith settlement?
MR. KATYAL: I am suggesting that we didn't
have the opportunity, Justice Sotomayor, that we
typically do in the lion's share of cases, as I was
saying to Justice Alito, where you work these things out
in agreement -- in advance with clear lines of
communication. And so --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Justice Kagan's question
had two parts. She said, tell me about the two boxes,
subrogation and reimbursement.
I think there is quite a bit to your
argument that this is not subrogation. The plan is
rather confusingly drafted. The plan calls it
subrogation. I don't think it really means subrogation.
If it's not subrogation, Justice Kagan's
question was, what then? The -- the common fund rule
still does not apply? Because?
MR. KATYAL: Because the common fund rule --
and, this, we are in agreement on, the parties -- the
common fund rule is a doctrine based in unjust
enrichment. This is what they say at page 26. This is
what all the courts say common fund is.
And, indeed, up until six months ago, seven
different circuit courts had evaluated this question of
whether the agreement can trump the common fund
doctrine. 21 of 21 circuit court judges all said it
did.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you are still in
equity, pursuant to the statute.
MR. KATYAL: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And are you saying that
there is no discretion in the equitable decrees that the
judge made?
MR. KATYAL: That -- that is precisely
right. The agreement sets the evaluation of the
parties. That's what the State Farm case says, what
their own treatise says, what the Arkansas Supreme Court
says.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- that's not
unusual. The motto is equity follows the law.
Doesn't -- doesn't that usually -- isn't that usually
the case?
MR. KATYAL: That -- that is correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where there is a legal
right, equity cannot overcome it.
MR. KATYAL: That is correct. And as the
Solicitor General says, at page 17, quoting the
Restatement, "A valid contract defines the obligations
of the parties as to matters within its scope, displacing
to that extent any inquiry into unjust enrichment." Any
inquiry.
If I could reserve the balance of my time?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Palmore.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH R. PALMORE,
FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
IN SUPPORT OF NEITHER PARTY
MR. PALMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
As this Court's cases recognize, Section
502(a)(3) invokes the equitable powers of the district
court. All of the remedial powers of a court in equity
are available that -- under Section 502(a)(3), that
would have been available when an analogous claim was
brought. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Equitable powers to enforce
the agreement?
MR. PALMORE: Yes.
And so we agree with Mr. Katyal in what
we've characterized as the first question presented,
that we think is essentially decided by this Court's
case in Sereboff.
At equity, when there was a -- an equitable
lien by agreement, that agreement was generally
enforceable according to its terms. It was like a
mortgage, is the classic case, and the mortgage gave a
security interest in land; and, if the debt was not paid
off, then the lienholder could -- could foreclose on
that land.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Palmore, do you agree
with Mr. Katyal's view of this distinction between
subjugation -- subrogation agreements and reimbursement
agreements and which this agreement is?
MR. PALMORE: I think that's a -- the --
there is certainly a distinction, and the Couch
Insurance treatise talks about the -- the distinction.
But the Couch Insurance treatise also explains that the
terms are often used interchangeably in a confusing way.
So I don't think that the bright line that
Mr. Katyal seeks to establish between subrogation and
reimbursement is necessarily reflected in all the cases
and all the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I think you can say
that about any legal rule, that some courts bollox them
up. I mean, that means the rule doesn't exist because
it's sometimes used in a confusing way?
MR. PALMORE: No, I think it's just the fact
that the courts do use these terms interchangeably.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the rule? What's
the rule? Do you acknowledge that that is the rule?
MR. PALMORE: We acknowledge that, when
there is a -- when there is a contractual plan-based
reimbursement provision like this, it is enforceable as
an equitable lien by agreement, in the same way that an
equitable lien by agreement would have been --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but I think Mr. Katyal
said that, if this were a subrogation agreement,
Mr. McCutchen would have a much better argument because
a different set of rules would apply. And so that makes
this categorization question quite meaningful.
Now, you could say, well, we don't see it as
all that meaningful. We think, no matter what you call
this agreement, the same rules apply. Or you could say,
yes, different rules apply with respect to these two
different kinds of agreements, and your job is to figure
out which kind of agreement this is.
MR. PALMORE: Right. We think -- as the --
as the case comes to the Court, this is a case for
reimbursement. This is just like Sereboff, and this is
a reimbursement agreement.
What -- what adds to the confusion is
that -- and if you look at more modern insurance
decisions, they're bringing in all kinds of concepts
from State law, from insurance law, from public policy
of the State. They don't necessarily reflect what would
have happened in a court in equity at the time of the
divided bench, and that's the import --
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's my exact
question. I think, now, what we're being asked to
decide is, from your point of view, does the common fund
doctrine apply?
I take it the common fund doctrine says, if
this victim here got some money back from the person who
caused the accident, that that money goes into a common
fund, in the sense that those who share in the fund must
share as well in the cost of producing the fund.
So if it costs 50,000 to produce 100,000,
which is in the fund, that we have to have US Air, as
well, pay part of the cost of producing the fund. That
sounds very fair.
But I hear the argument, fair though it is,
we have here an agreement, and in this agreement, it
says, it's as if it said, and you shall not apply the
common fund doctrine or any other equitable doctrine,
such as he who seeks equity must do equity, etc. And I
think that's the question that's being asked.
And so what is your response to that? In
particular, why do you say the common fund doctrine
applies, though the contract says it doesn't, we assume,
but all these other equitable doctrines don't apply?
MR. PALMORE: Because we think the
equitable -- equitable doctrines that apply are the
equitable doctrines that would have applied at equity.
JUSTICE BREYER: Good. So now, we have 18th
century authority which says that, in the 18th century,
Lord Cooke or someone said that the common fund doctrine
applies, but the other doctrines don't. And the -- and
the name and citation to that authority is?
MR. PALMORE: Well, there is not one
authority that is going to give you both -- both
answers. But the equitable lien by agreement cases from
the time of equity, as I mentioned before, were
typically mortgage cases or a promise to provide future
acquired funds to discharge a debt.
And it's clear, under those cases, that that
could be executed, according to its terms. The unjust
enrichment principles that Respondent is invoking were
in a -- really a different silo involving equitable
restitution. And this Court in Sereboff said, we are
not going to look at equitable restitution principles,
we are going to look at equitable lien by agreement
cases.
Now, there is a separate line of authority
involving the common fund that we talk about in our
brief. And, as Mr. Katyal said, it has at times been
characterized as an unjust enrichment doctrine, but its
roots are different. Its roots are actually in an
analogy to trust law.
If you look back to the principal case that
established this, the Greenough case that we talk about
in our brief, the Court said that the -- Mr. Vose,
who -- the bondholder who had secured a benefit for all
the bondholders, had -- while not a trustee, had acted
the part of a trustee. And it was a well-settled
principle of trust law, both then and now, that a
trustee is entitled to reimbursement for reasonable
expenses from the trust itself.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was there an agreement that
contradicted that?
MR. PALMORE: There was no agreement in --
in Greenough that contradicted that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but we have an
agreement here, so how does -- how does that line of
authority apply?
MR. PALMORE: Because, Justice Scalia,
I -- I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We have an agreement, which
says that the insurance company gets all the money. So
you either say that that agreement can be overcome by
equity, or else, you -- you say the agreement prevails.
MR. PALMORE: There are two answers,
Justice Scalia. One is that -- that a plan can't add to
or subtract from the powers of the court in equity,
under Section 502(a)(3). A plan couldn't disclaim a
claimant's ability to get an injunction --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it only has the powers
to enforce the agreement.
MR. PALMORE: The powers to enforce --
JUSTICE SCALIA: There are various equitable
powers, and it can use various of them to enforce the
agreement.
MR. PALMORE: But we don't think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's quite different from
rewriting the agreement, which is what you are using it
for here.
MR. PALMORE: No, we -- we are saying that
Section 502(a)(3) takes the settled powers of the court
in equity as it finds them. And the -- and the plan
can't divest the Court of those powers, it can't add to
those powers, like this Court held in Great-West; it
also can't take away from them.
But, if I could go to an equity answer,
because I think this is important --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Do you really
think that if -- if an equity court finds the agreement
to be unfair, it can say, he who seeks equity must do
equity, and rewrite the agreement, so that it's fairer?
MR. PALMORE: Not on general unfairness
grounds, but it was a settled principle at trust -- of
trust law, and remember, Greenough based the common fund
doctrine on trust law that if, for instance, a trust
document had said, the trustee shall take his expenses
from the trust corpus, not from the income -- or
vice-versa, says the trustee shall take his expenses
from the income, but not from the trust corpus -- if
that proved unworkable or unfair and the trustee
couldn't discharge his obligations to maintain the
trust, the court of equity had broad reformation powers
and was not bound by that trust document.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, the -- the
position that the United States is advancing today is
different from the position that the United States
previously advanced. You make their point in footnote 9
of your brief. You say that, in prior case, the
Secretary of Labor took this position. And then you say
that, upon further reflection, the Secretary is now of
the view -- that is not the reason.
It wasn't further reflection. We have a new
Secretary now under a new administration, right.
MR. PALMORE: We do have a new Secretary
under a new administration. But that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think it would be
more candid for your office to tell us when there is a
change in position, that it's not based on further
reflection of the Secretary. It's not that the
Secretary is now of the view -- there has been a change.
We are seeing a lot of that lately.
It's perfectly fine if you want to change
your position, but don't tell us it's because the
Secretary has reviewed the matter further, the Secretary
is now of the view. Tell us it's because there is a new
Secretary.
MR. PALMORE: Well, with respect,
Mr. Chief Justice, the law has changed since that brief
was filed nearly ten years ago in the Court's of Appeal.
And, of course --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Then tell us the law
has changed. Don't say the Secretary is now of the
view. It's not the same person. You cite the prior
Secretary by name, and then you say, the Secretary is
now of the view. I found that a little disingenuous.
MR. PALMORE: Well, I apologize for that,
Your Honor, but we do cite in that footnote the Amara
case, and that is a key element to our position here
because Amara said that Section 502(a)(3) incorporates
the traditional powers of the court at equity.
And it talked about, not only the ability to
issue an injunction, but the ability to provide for a
surcharge remedy, the ability to reform contracts --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The ability --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We never doubted that
before. Was it thought before that all the equitable
powers did not exist under ERISA?
MR. PALMORE: These cases weren't litigated
in the way they are now before -- before Sereboff --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to be self-evident
that the court had all equitable powers. That's not a
change in the law. It's just a restatement of the
obvious.
MR. PALMORE: And we think the court has all
equitable powers and a plan term can't divest the court
of those equitable powers, so among those equitable
powers was the ability to enforce an equitable lien by
agreement without looking at inapplicable unjust
enrichment --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or not to enforce it,
meaning the equity is to enforce it or to stay your
hand. And so the court could decide not to reach into
the pocket of the plan participant to pay back money
that the lawyer has.
MR. PALMORE: Well, we do agree with respect
to the common fund doctrine, and we think that, to the
extent this Court is willing to look at the -- at the --
the purposes of ERISA, that the position that we've
advanced strikes the right balance, and in particular,
it avoids the -- the negative recovery scenario that is
a particularly harsh result of Petitioner's position.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Wessler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW W.H. WESSLER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. WESSLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Reimbursement claims that are based on an
express subrogation agreement are subject to equitable
principles of subrogation.
In equity, these claims were governed,
according to the same principles that governed every
other type of subrogation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Your opponent says this is
not a subrogation agreement, so that argument goes
nowhere. He would concede that point. You have to tell
us why this is a subrogation agreement, even though you
conceded below that it isn't.
MR. WESSLER: Your Honor, it is a
subrogation agreement. The claim, however, that
Petitioners have pursued here, is a reimbursement claim.
And -- but it's based on an express subrogation clause.
And in equity, reimbursement claims, which,
to be clear, are distinct from subrogation claims
because they involve a suit directly against the
insured, as opposed to against the tortfeasor, are
governed by the same principles of subrogation that
equity treated -- equity used that -- to apply to all
claims that involved an insurer who is seeking to
recover money from either an insured or a tortfeasor.
And so we concede, absolutely, Your Honor,
that the claim is one for reimbursement for monies
recovered out of a fund obtained by the insured. But
it's -- it's based on an expressed subrogation --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not what I say
you've conceded. That's the common fund doctrine. Your
opponent denies that the common fund doctrine applies.
And it says this is an equitable lien by agreement, so
that the common fund doctrine doesn't apply.
Now, you -- you say it is not an equitable
lien by agreement? Is that your position?
MR. WESSLER: No, Your Honor. We -- it --
to be clear, it is an equitable lien by agreement, but
it arises within the doctrine of subrogation, which is,
as Couch and Palmer and other treatises explain, is an
umbrella term that is used to describe all of the rights
and rules that govern claims by insurers for money back
after they've paid it out under a policy.
Now, the form of the action in this case is
a -- is a claim for reimbursement out of a fund, but the
mere fact that that's the form of the action, which, in
Sereboff, this Court called an equitable lien by
agreement, does not alter the underlying rule that
equity courts in the days of the divided bench would
have applied to the claim.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But doesn't Sereboff suggest
not? I mean, I realize that Sereboff has this footnote,
but if you read the text in Sereboff, it says, these
affirmative defenses that would arise in a normal
subrogation context are beside the point. So how are
they not the beside the point?
MR. WESSLER: They are not beside the point
for -- for one reason, and let me -- let me explain why.
What the Court actually said in Sereboff was that the
parcel of equitable defenses accompanying a
free-standing claim or free-standing action for
equitable subrogation are beside the point. A
free-standing action for equitable subrogation is not
one based on an agreement. It's an implied claim, a
claim for subrogation or reimbursement based on the mere
fact that the insurer has paid the money.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So is that true that, in
Sereboff, there was no agreement?
MR. WESSLER: There was, but what this
Court -- there was absolutely an agreement, just as
there is an agreement in this case. What the -- the
distinction the Court drew in Sereboff was it said that
whatever principles apply to free-standing claims are
beside the point, because -- precisely because the claim
was based on an agreement. That is absolutely correct.
And it's perfectly consistent with our
position because we believe that the principles in
equity that governed exactly the kinds of claims that
were at issue in Sereboff and are at issue here,
reimbursement claims based on an express agreement, are,
in fact, governed by the same principles of unjust
enrichment.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess I don't understand
that because it seems to me that, when Sereboff said it
was beside the point, they were refuting the arguments
that the insured party was making, that the insured
party was saying, hey, look, we have these great
defenses.
And -- and you are saying they had an
agreement, but they also said they have these great
defenses, and the Court said, too bad, those defenses
don't work for you here.
MR. WESSLER: The Court -- the -- the
beneficiary, Your Honor, in Sereboff, argued that the
defenses that applied to a -- a freestanding or implied
claim for equitable subrogation should control the --
the measure of relief available in the case.
They said -- it -- the contract doesn't
matter. The -- the agreement makes no difference. What
the plan is trying to obtain here is a pure,
freestanding claim for subrogation. And -- and look at
all these great rules that apply to that -- to that kind
of claim.
And the Court said, absolutely correctly, in
Sereboff, whatever those principles are doesn't matter
because this is a claim based on an agreement. And --
but what our view in this case is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what -- what's the
difference between the two? Meaning -- I take your
argument to be that the Court was right before, that
freestanding subrogation claims have one set of remedies
or rights, and subrogation, by agreement, have another.
So what do you see as the differences between the two?
MR. WESSLER: When it comes to the rules
that govern relief, there is no difference. The same
principle of unjust enrichment controls, and it limits
an insurer to recovering out of the fund
only --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So was the Court in an
exercise of futility, in writing what it did in
Sereboff?
MR. WESSLER: Not so, Your Honor. It did
not reach the question in Sereboff of what rules apply
to -- to reimbursement claims based on express
agreement. That was footnote 2.
The Court said, all we're holding in
Sereboff is this is a --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I understand
the argument. It's a bit unsettling that you've got two
kinds of rights, one implied and one express, and
there's no difference between the two? You -- you've
got to give them a little bit more body to have a
persuasive argument.
MR. WESSLER: Your Honor, in equity, that
was the rule. And I'll point this Court's attention to
the leading treatise on equity. It's Palmer's treatise
cited by this Court in Sereboff and in Great West.
And what Palmer says -- and he -- he
discusses, precisely, this claim on pages 473 and 474 of
his -- of his treatise, and it's cited on page 21 of our
brief. And he says that, "The same principle of unjust
enrichment controls claims for reimbursement arising out
of an express agreement."
And I'm quoting here --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't there another line
after that, that says something --
MR. WESSLER: Yes, I'm about to quote that.
And he says that that principle, quote,
"should serve to limit the effectiveness of contract
provisions which in terms provide for reimbursement out
of the insured's tort recovery, without regard to
whether or the extent to which that recovery includes
medical expense."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is this the part --
I might be mixing this up with something else, but is
this the part where he says, unfortunately, the courts
don't agree with that?
(Laughter.)
MR. WESSLER: He -- he -- he identifies two
decisions -- that -- you're correct, Your Honor -- he
identifies two decisions, which did something contrary
to that rule. But, in his view, that is the rule that
governs these claims.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's go back to what
the -- the simple argument. We have an agreement here,
and the plan is asking for what the agreement gives it.
Why is the plan unjustly enriched by receiving exactly
what the plan entitles it to receive?
MR. WESSLER: Because, Your Honor, these --
these insurance reimbursement cases arose in a very
different context from most other equitable lien by
agreement cases.
And the core difference in -- between these
cases and all 22 or -- or more of the cases that the
Petitioner cites, is that they involve a third party,
who has caused the loss both to the insurer and the
insured. And that third party, the tortfeasor, in these
reimbursement cases is not the defendant.
And so, in two-party equitable lien by
agreement cases, which are -- all of the cases that
Petitioner cites involve two-party cases in which the
defendant is also the wrongdoer, is the person who is
culpable and who has caused the -- the Plaintiff's loss.
In those cases, when courts awarded relief, they awarded
relief that was consistent with the defendant's unjust
enrichment, but was also co-extensive with or consistent
with the loss under the contract.
In these three-party cases, however, because
the defendant, who is -- who is a beneficiary, not --
not the tortfeasor, did not actually trigger the loss,
courts developed, in equity, a different set of rules to
apply to -- to measure the relief available under the
claim.
And what they said was, where there is a
fund that is insufficient, where it cannot cover all of
the losses suffered by all of the parties, that -- that
all of the parties must share equally with -- of the
loss. And the Palmer -- Palmer itself has an entire
chapter devoted to third-party problems. And --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why -- why is it so unfair?
I've been putting it in a way that looks unfair, which
favors your side. But US Air or the equivalent says,
now, here is the deal, we'll pay your medical expenses.
And now, if somebody causes those expenses, you come to
us, and we decide whether we want to sue and get our
expenses back, and any extra money, we give to you, and
we pay our attorneys' fees extra. They don't count
against the fund.
And if our lawyers tell us it isn't worth
it, you're free to sue; but, I'll tell you what, your
lawyer is going to be at the end of the queue. We're
first, then comes your lawyer, and anything left over
goes to you.
Now, if you can find a lawyer that takes it
on those conditions, good for you. But he might because
he might think he's going to get -- but our lawyers have
already told us it's not going to work, so that's the
situation.
Now, what's -- I'm not -- I think US Air's
point would be, well, what's unfair about that?
That's -- that makes sure we get our money back. That's
what we want to do. And you're free to sue; it's just
your lawyer who's going to come at the end of the queue,
okay?
What's -- why is that unfair?
MR. WESSLER: Your Honor, it's unfair
because, in equity, parties could not defeat the rules
that typically apply.
Now, if this were a legal case and that were
a legal claim, there's nothing unfair about that. The
parties can structure their contracts or agreements as
they see fit. But the fact is that we are talking about
the rules that equity applied in these situations.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So whenever you have a
contract that explicitly, although -- you know, nowadays
when the merged bars, I suppose, you wouldn't even have
to say it, but let's assume it explicitly says that
rights under this contract can be enforced in law or --
at law or in equity.
Whenever -- whenever you have a contract
like that, it's going to be up to the court of equity to
decide whether it's fair?
MR. WESSLER: No, Your Honor. I -- I don't
think that's right. And I would point the Court to --
to its decision in McKee in 1935, in which it drew a
distinction between a claim in equity that was a legal
claim based on a contract, which could happen, and a
claim in equity that was a, quote, "purely equitable
claim," based on the contract.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why isn't this a legal
claim? It's -- it's a promise made in a contract.
Why -- why is that not a legal claim?
To be sure, the contract says that --
that -- you know, all equitable remedies are available
to enforce that claim. But why is it an equitable
claim, not a legal claim?
MR. WESSLER: It -- it could be either, Your
Honor. And we've cited -- cited to this Court cases
in -- in the days of the divided bench, in which a party
could have sought legal relief for breach for this exact
kind of claim, but there was also a remedy that a party
could seek in equity.
But in order to do that, in order to -- to
enter equity's doors on this reimbursement theory, it --
it had to agree to allow other parties their correlative
rights in equity, and it also had to agree not to
override or defeat the -- the rules in equity that
typically would --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, couldn't that party
simply say, I want to go to the other side of the court?
You just made a distinction between the remedy at law
and at equity. This is the plan, and if the plan is
told, well, if you go to equity, you get all these extra
things. You could say, I'm asserting my rights at law.
MR. WESSLER: No, Your Honor. The -- the
plan is in a bind here. And we know this from Sereboff
and Great West and Mertens. They cannot seek legal
relief under this contract.
The only remedy -- the only provision in
ERISA's enforcement section that allows that is Section
502(a)(1)(b). And it says, a party has rights to -- has
the right to enforce the terms of the plan. But -- but
fiduciaries like Petitioner are not allowed to pursue
relief under that provision, so all they get is purely
equitable relief under 502(a)(3).
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The general rule in equity
was that the equity court would not give a specific
performance decree to pay a certain amount of money, was
the general rule. Were there exceptions?
MR. WESSLER: Your Honor --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and if so, do those
exceptions bear on this case?
MR. WESSLER: And there were -- there were
exceptions, but we don't view this case as a specific
performance case. And I'm not sure Petitioner --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We -- you don't view the
case as?
MR. WESSLER: As a specific performance
case. That -- that was a specific type of -- of remedy.
The remedy here that's being sought is an equitable lien
by agreement, but -- but in our view, when an insurer
sought to enforce, through an equitable lien by
agreement, a claim or a lien on a fund, it must agree to
take that relief, subject to the way equity would have
treated the claim.
And what Palmer and what Couch and -- and
what the cases we've cited say is that, even for those
reimbursement claims that are based or arise on an
express agreement, that the relief available is limited
in two concrete ways.
The -- the insurer could not get more out of
the fund than its share of the fund that accounted for
the medical expenses it paid, and it must have agreed to
reduce proportionately for an amount of -- of fees and
costs.
JUSTICE BREYER: Enter best case -- what is
your best case? I'd love to find it. There's a case
that says something like this.
MR. WESSLER: The Svea case, Your Honor,
which is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well -- well, let me tell
you what I'm thinking of. The -- there is a contract,
all written down. They forgot to put a seal on it.
They forgot to put a seal on it. So I guess it's now
1463 or some year like that. So they go into equity.
And now, they are in equity. And the
plaintiff says, judge, I want you to enforce this
contract. He says, I'm a judge in equity. He says, I
know, but we've agreed, and you enforce it in equity.
The contract says, give Smith all the wheat.
And equity says -- you know, there are other people who
would like some of this wheat, too, so we are not going
to follow the contract. We are going to modify the
contract according to equitable principles, which, as
you say, they can do. And the other side says, no, they
wouldn't. They'd follow the contract. They are just in
equity because they forgot the seal.
Okay. What is your best case to show they
did, indeed, modify it with the common fund doctrine or
some other doctrine? I want to be sure to read it with
a magnifying glass.
MR. WESSLER: Well, Your Honor, to be clear,
there is not a single equitable lien case that -- that
Petitioners have found in which a court has --
JUSTICE BREYER: I know, but I didn't ask
you about what they found. I was asking what you found.
MR. WESSLER: So -- so, Your Honor, the Svea
case, is -- is, I think, our best example. And in that
case, the insurer had a subrogation agreement, which
authorized it to recover -- authorized recovery to,
quote, "the extent of its payment" out of, quote, "all
rights of recovery of the insured."
And in that case, there was an underlying
settlement that the insured reached with the tortfeasor,
the wrongdoer. And after that occurred, the insurer did
not participate in that underlying proceeding at all.
And after that occurred, the insurer then directly sued
the insured.
This is exactly the kind of case we're
talking about here, seeking recovery out of the fund.
And they based that claim on their -- on their express
subrogation agreement. And they said, we paid
approximately $3,000. You recovered something like
$9,000. We should get $3,000 back.
And the court there said, no, because the
fund was insufficient to cover all of the losses --
the -- the insured did not recover for all of its
losses, several other claimants did not recover for all
of their losses -- and the court said that, because the
fund was insufficient, the -- the insurer was limited to
recovering -- and I'm quoting here -- "no more than its
proportion of the amount recovered after deducting costs
and fees."
And so they applied both the double recovery
cap that we believe applied in every single case in
equity in which an insurer --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what case is this?
MR. WESSLER: This is the Svea case, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: From what court, what --
what year?
MR. WESSLER: The highest court in Maryland,
I believe from 1901.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Wessler, would it be
fair to say -- I mean, we're in this unusual position
because we're supposed to be looking back to before the
1930s sometime.
Would it be fair to say that we just don't
have very many cases, and Mr. Katyal doesn't have any,
and you don't have any, that raise this question that,
where somebody walks into an equity court with a
contract, and we try to figure out whether the equity
court is going to use these unjust enrichment defenses?
Would it be fair to say that we just don't know?
MR. WESSLER: I -- I think -- I think that
it's fair to say that this did not arise that frequently
in courts of equity.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Why didn't it?
MR. WESSLER: Be -- for -- for several
reasons, Your Honor.
First, most of these claims arose simply as
freestanding or implied claims. So there was not --
there was no need for an insurer to include in its
insurance policy an expressed subrogation agreement.
However, that -- that changed approximately
around the turn -- the mid-20th century, when medical
insurance started to become an increasing commodity.
When that occurred, most States had a -- a prohibition
on the assignment of personal injury claims.
And so what insurers began to do to get
around that prohibition was to insert in their -- in
their policies an express clause allowing them to obtain
reimbursement from the insured, in the event that the
insured recovered money that it had paid.
Now, there is another reason in this case --
or in these ERISA cases -- why these agreements need to
be in the plan. And that's because Section 502(a)(3)
itself does not allow for a plan, like Petitioner, to
obtain a general right to equitable relief. All that
the Petitioner can -- can seek here is equitable --
appropriate equitable relief to enforce the terms of its
plan.
And so, in the absence of an expressed
provision, like a subrogation clause, it would not be
entitled to pursue a -- a general right to subrogation.
It's a term -- that back-end reference is
a -- is a term of limitation that limits the types of
claims that Petitioner can bring in these cases.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, can -- I
want to give you an opportunity to respond to the
argument that you've waived, the -- the -- your argument
based on the distinction between the summary of the plan
and the plan.
And there are two things that concern me
about that, in particular. The summary of the plan,
which you've had all the time, says, on page 1, "This is
only a summary. Complete plan details are contained in
a legal plan document. If there is any difference
between the information in the summary and the legal
plan, the legal plan" -- "the legal plan document will
govern."
So when you had the summary, you were on
notice that, if there were any difference between it and
the plan, the plan would govern. You received a copy of
the plan in June of 2012. Okay?
And as late as August 29th of 2012,
two-and-a-half months afterward, you filed a Joint
Appendix that didn't -- didn't contain the provision
that you say now governs. So why shouldn't you be held
to have waived that?
The first time we found out about that was
in your red brief that was filed -- June, July, August,
September -- three months -- October -- four months
after you had the plan.
So didn't you waive it?
MR. WESSLER: Well, I -- I don't think we
waived it, Your Honor. It's in our opening brief on the
merits to this Court, and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which was four
months after you had the plan and -- and the plan was
lodged with us last week for the first time.
MR. WESSLER: That's correct, Your Honor.
In our view -- and -- and I think I need to be clear
about this. I mean, the -- the fact that the plan
contains a different set of rights than -- than the SPD,
to us, is meaningful in -- in its -- in its effect that
it will have on this case when this -- if and when this
Court remands because -- because, in our view, the
rights are different.
However, I -- it doesn't change the
underlying nature of our argument, which is that, even
the strong form argument that Petitioners have made
here, which is that, on the SPD, it can defeat the --
the rules that typically would have applied, that equity
would not have allowed that. And so --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The problem is that
the district court interpreted the plan as precluding
the claim you're making here. And your argument that
that's not true is based not on the summary of the plan,
but on the plan itself.
MR. WESSLER: That --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And what the
district court does is it defers to the administrator's
interpretation of the plan. So the district court found
that the administrator's interpretation was not
arbitrary and capricious.
So what your friend is arguing is that,
well, you are kind of stuck with the district court
interpretation, and you can't, at the last minute, argue
that it shouldn't control because of some other
document.
MR. WESSLER: Well -- well, we think we do
have the right to argue that on remand, Your Honor.
And -- and this Court's decision in Cigna only -- only
arose in this case after the -- the briefs were complete
to the Third Circuit.
And so it's -- I -- I think Cigna has
changed the law to the extent that all parties are now
on notice and know that the plan document will trump any
contrary language --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, no, Cigna
didn't tell you that. The plan -- the summary told you
that. It says, "Complete plan details are in the legal
plan. If there is any difference between the summary
and the plan, the plan controls." So you didn't need
Cigna to tell you that.
MR. WESSLER: Well -- well, Your -- Your
Honor, I mean, I -- I think that the -- the -- you know,
that -- for us, that's an issue on remand. We're
comfortable that our arguments in this case control,
even -- even as it relates to the actual language in the
SPD and that -- and that whatever differences between
the SPD and the plan actually are don't necessarily
change the rules that govern when a -- when a party in
equity sought this kind of reimbursement relief directly
from -- from an insured.
I'd like, just -- just for the last minute
or so, to discuss the common fund rule because I do
think it applies as a separate and distinct rule,
regardless of how this Court interprets the agreement as
governing the rights between Mr. McCutchen, the
beneficiary, and the plan.
And I'd just like to point out that this
Court, in Pettus, made clear that the common fund
doctrine confers a separate lien on the attorney. And
so whatever the agreements control between the
beneficiary and the plan has, it cannot defeat the
rights that the attorney has, as a separate matter, to
come into court and invoke its own lien on the fund as a
first priority lien over the money.
And -- and I -- and I'd just like to point
out that Petitioners have not responded to that
argument. Nowhere in their reply brief did they explain
why their theory would allow them to defeat the rights
of a third-party defendant in this case, Mr. McCutchen's
lawyers, who have their own separate right to the lien.
And -- and none of their equitable lien
cases, Your Honor, involve any kind of common fund
whatsoever. So they say precisely nothing about the
rules that would have applied in equity to an attorney's
attempt to -- to take their proportion out of the fund
before it was distributed to any of the parties.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought you were
discussing the common fund would be the allocation
between McCutchen and the plan. But now, you seem to be
talking only about the attorney's right to come in
first.
MR. WESSLER: The common fund, Your Honor,
applied either to deduct -- either as -- as a deduction
off the -- Your Honor, may I -- may I finish answering
the question?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
MR. WESSLER: As a deduction out of the
entire fund for the attorney's lien or it can be applied
to reduce proportionately each of the claimant's claims
to that fund. And in this case, it should be applied to
reduce a Petitioner's claim on the fund, irrespective of
McCutchen's own claim.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Katyal, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL KUMAR KATYAL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KATYAL: Thank you.
I'd like to begin where -- where Mr. Wessler
left off, with the common fund, and make three quick
points.
The first is that both equity law and ERISA
law point in the same direction. Justice Scalia is
absolutely right, that they have zero cases that say, if
there's a preexisting agreement that settles the common
fund doctrine, that that makes it not enforceable.
And Justice Ginsburg's absolutely right to
say that when the plan -- the plan is not unjustly
enriched, to get the money that they are entitled to get
under the contract.
The second point I would make is that the
Solicitor General says, well, this is now --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Put on the back of
someone else, meaning --
MR. KATYAL: I agree.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- I may or may not
agree that, in terms of your split with the participant,
the contract might control. But I still am having
trouble with understanding how you can bind a third
party, like a lawyer, who's done the effort to recover
that fund -- more along Justice Breyer's question, which
is not only in -- in all equity, lawyers are entitled,
whether by contract or by unjust enrichment principles,
to a -- to a percentage of their expenses in recovering
something.
MR. KATYAL: Justice Sotomayor, that's
precisely what cases like State Farm and the Arkansas
case from 1969, the Maryland case from 1931, address,
which is that situation. And the reason is that
essentially here -- it's a mistake to see this as a
third-party case.
This is really a situation created by
Mr. McCutchen double-promising the same money to two
entities, US Air and to his lawyers. And so it's
essentially a dispute, really, among two parties, not
three.
Now, the Solicitor General says, well, this
is rooted in -- in equitable doctrine. There is no case
that they have that says that there's some equitable
doctrine that trumps the preexisting agreement. And,
indeed, the case that they cite, the Greenough case, is
one that essentially relies on unjust enrichment
principles.
Sure, the Court has an equity power when to
remedy unjust enrichment. That is an inherent power of
the Court. We're not disagreeing with that. What we
are saying is that, when you have an agreement in
advance, that means, per se, there is no unjust
enrichment, that they are, to use this Court's language
in Sereboff, a defense that it is beside the point.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm assuming,
because ERISA's in place now, that the many State laws
that prohibit this kind of agreement, where insurance
plans are seeking full reimbursement, despite an
attorney's efforts, that those are void, that those
would be enforceable.
MR. KATYAL: That is precisely --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The only one who can fix
this problem now is Congress, if they --
MR. KATYAL: That is correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- if they perceive it
as a problem.
MR. KATYAL: Congress, in 1974, set it up
this way. And I think that that's an important point,
Justice Sotomayor. For 38 years, this Court has never
embraced an idea that Federal common law allows
rewriting of plan terms. It would be a very dangerous
doctrine to do so. It'd be standardless.
And here is a very vivid example: They are
saying that it is inequitable to have the Federal Blue
Cross/Blue Shield plan, which governs 4.6 million
people, including perhaps members of this Court, which
has the exact same provisions as the US Air plan, an
abrogation of common fund and a 100 percent
reimbursement provision.
And they are saying that that would not be
enforceable. That may create any number of problems for
the government, I imagine, when it tries to enforce
that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose the expense weren't
to pay the lawyer. Suppose, in order to get the
100,000, you had, for example, to build a model car to
demonstrate to the manufacturer what caused the injury,
and it cost you 98,000 to do it. And they pay you
100,000.
You're saying that -- it wouldn't be unjust
to say the 100,000 has to go to -- back to pay US Air?
MR. KATYAL: Justice Breyer, if the
agreement settled that in advance, yes, it would not be
unjust. It is the agreement that controls.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
54:7,9 55:19 57:20 10:6 arose 41:19
advance 18:17 59:5,12,18 APPEARAN... 50:25 54:19
61:10 59:13 61:4 agreements appendix 9:1,4 17:5 27:16
advancing 32:3 44:5 51:15 36:24 38:19 41:15 48:20
9:2 affirmative 37:3 Air 5:18 14:22 53:23 56:14,23 asserting 45:23
15:23 afterward 52:21 17:17 22:10 57:3,5 assets 16:6
ago 4:13 9:18 27:25 43:1 applies 28:11,19 assignment 51:8
15:3,5 25:17 34:13 4:4 5:23 27:1,18 28:5 28:11 44:11
35:25 41:6 45:14,15 Air's 43:18 28:12,14 30:6 assuming 13:21
39:3 47:2 58:5,7 AL 1:10 35:22 36:8 59:16
agreed 47:12 Alito 20:7,18 37:22 39:1,22 assumption 8:3
agreement 4:16 allocation 56:18 appropriate Atlantic 7:4
5:18,18 6:6,8 51:17 56:8 approximately 6:25
9:1 16:13,14 allowing 51:11 argue 54:13,17 attorney 5:13,16
22:18 23:6,12 Amara 12:4 argument 1:16 attorneys 5:24
18:12 27:3,7 28:4,4 amount 12:17 24:17 26:20 56:14,20 57:3
21:11 28:23 29:8,25 14:17 46:12 28:3 34:23 59:20
37:10 30:2,5,9,11,12 47:13 49:21 35:9 39:9 40:3 August 52:20
30:19,23 31:1 analogous 25:1 40:7 41:14 53:1
36:7,10,12,22 17:1 31:9 56:7 57:11 30:6
41:14,15,21 11:25 arising 40:16 38:21 42:16
best 47:15,16 call 26:24 century 28:17 57:4
15:14,14 58:9 CAPACITY 1:3 change 32:16,18 41:12 47:7
29:16 bit 22:23 40:3,6 capricious 54:10 32:20 33:25 50:25 51:1,8
36:16 Blue 21:6 60:10 car 60:22 53:19 55:13 52:2 57:4
43:5,20 body 40:6 case 4:4 6:16 changed 33:1,5 classic 25:13
50:10 bollox 26:6 8:12,14 10:9 51:4 54:22 clause 9:22,22
61:2 bondholder 10:15,16,20 chapter 42:23 9:24 11:25
bound 4:21,23 24:4 25:9,13 16:16,22 24:15 36:12 48:16
32:16 14:3,9,18,21 46:16,18,19,21 61:6 come 19:11
36:3 15:8,11 27:15 46:23 47:15,16 Cigna 54:18,21 21:15 43:3,22
28:16 42:24 47:16,18 48:12 54:25 55:5 56:3,20
39:5,23 47:15,20 48:19 48:17,22,23 circuit 9:6 20:20 comes 13:13
47:7 60:20 61:3 49:2,8,24 50:1 23:11,13 54:20 15:25 20:22
52:6 Breyer's 58:11 50:2 51:14 citation 28:20 27:5 39:13
brief 8:13 9:7 53:16 54:19 cite 11:6,7 33:6 43:11
4:7 33:1 40:15 cases 18:24 47:6 5:12
57:12 53:1,6 56:7 22:16 24:22 cites 41:24 42:5 commodity 51:6
38:1 bright 26:1 29:2,9 33:21 6:24 7:7 19:23 8:9,17 9:2 10:2
50:7 bring 52:2 41:19,21,23,23 25:1 35:14,15 11:10 15:24
45:8 27:10 45:7 47:6 37:10,13,14,23 23:9,12 27:17
brought 21:12 52:2 56:12 39:5 40:13 28:10,18 29:11
38:18 build 60:22 categorization 44:21,22,23,25 36:5,6,8 48:13
55:21 burdens 18:11 18:6 26:22 45:1,4,5,5,10 55:17,23 56:12
57:15 38:22 40:23 course 8:19 Cross 21:6 60:23
60:6,14 42:11 44:9,12 10:13 33:3 Cross/Blue denies 36:6
45:2 46:2 4:13 6:22 7:9 culpable 42:7 1:22
48:8,10 50:16 8:25 9:5,7 24:18 describe 36:15
contracts 33:16 14:2,24,25 D description 8:22
55:2 26:14 21:21,24 23:13 days 9:18 11:24 despite 59:19
30:1,3 24:24 27:5,13 deal 43:2 55:2
36:5 10:22 41:10 31:4,6,7,12,25 debt 6:2 25:14 devoted 42:23
54:14 55:9,25 35:1 36:21 27:17 34:10 41:22 52:12,17
13:1 39:15 40:16 40:11 44:15,18 decision 7:3 different 13:12
correct 10:12 55:23 56:3 decrees 23:19 53:14,18
37:24 41:9 60:12 deducting 49:21 directly 35:19
correlative 41:5 42:8,15 defeat 44:1 59:11
28:1 60:24 24:22 25:8 defendant 42:2 disclaim 30:16
41:20 24:15 32:2 create 60:17 38:12,15,15,19 discuss 55:17
16:10 59:16 61:6,7 creates 6:3 defines 24:10 disingenuous
28:11 count 43:6 critical 17:24 demonstrate 33:8
driver 13:7 47:15 44:13,15,20,22 executed 29:3
55:18 D.C 1:12,19,22 entire 42:22 45:22 46:10,11 exist 26:7 33:20
25:18,22 entirely 18:14 48:2,3,5,11 41:2 60:20
37:21 E entities 58:24 49:25 50:15,16 expenses 11:1
45:20 E 1:10 3:1 4:1,1 entitled 29:23 50:21 53:23 12:17 13:6,15
earlier 19:21 51:24 57:24 55:14 56:14 29:24 31:19,21
effectiveness entitles 41:17 59:9 58:14
13:25 effort 58:10 equally 42:21 equivalent 43:1 explain 36:14
21:21,24 efforts 59:20 equitable 4:11 ERISA 4:10,14 37:7 56:7
54:1,7,8 either 30:11 4:15,17,18,24 10:24,25 20:9 explains 25:24
35:24 45:6 5:7 6:7,24,25 20:19,23 33:20 explicitly 44:9
45:8 else's 18:9 20:5 23:19 ERISA's 46:4 35:3,16 38:4
7:11 8:17 employee 1:6 28:12,14,14,15 3:3,6,10,13 51:11
11:10 16:4 15:13 16:17 28:23 29:5,7,8 essentially 5:20 expressed 36:3
27:18 enforce 4:11 7:2 30:21 33:19,24 6:17 11:24 51:3,22
28:6,6 25:3 30:19,20 34:3,4,4,5 35:3 18:17 19:16 extent 12:25
29:13 30:22 34:5,8,9 36:7,9,12,21 25:8 58:20,25 24:12 34:15
34:14 45:4 46:6 47:1 37:9,11,12 59:7 41:1 48:25
48:1,3 51:20 38:20 41:20 establish 26:2 54:22
55:24 60:18 42:3 44:22 established 7:2 extra 43:5,6
59:3,5 enforceable 45:3,4 46:9,24 29:17 45:22
16:9 25:12 47:1 48:8,17 ET 1:10
59:21 60:17 56:11 59:3,4 evaluated 7:14 fact 26:9 36:20
52:12,14 8:18 44:12 4:23 5:6,8 6:5 evaluation 44:6 53:13
enforcement 7:14,15,16 23:22 facts 6:1 21:20
enriched 41:16 16:11,12 23:16 exact 27:15 45:9 failure 21:23
24:12 29:4,13 30:12,15 31:5 41:16 49:8 far 9:23
39:15 40:16 31:25 33:13 60:9,22 58:17
60:6,10 free 43:9,21 generally 25:11 grounds 31:16 inapplicable
51:1 9:20 10:11 47:23 21:11
37:10,10,12,22 45:18 56:17 H includes 41:1
50:20 12:11 57:22 hand 34:10 income 31:20,22
friends 11:23 28:22 40:6 happened 5:21 33:12
53:1 19:6 48:4 52:4 happens 15:12 independent 6:3
19:3 25:7 28:1,6,10,18 35:9 43:12 highly 14:24 inherent 59:10
50:25 29:11 31:17 going 16:3 18:10 hired 17:18 inherit 18:10
53:10 34:14 36:2,5,6 18:17 21:16 holding 39:25 injunction 30:17
57:17 36:8,19 39:16 28:22 29:7,8 Honor 10:4 33:15
49:19 55:17,23 good 28:16 40:8 41:9,18 inquiry 20:24
56:22 57:3,5,6 govern 7:16 45:7,24 46:14 insert 51:10
33:10 60:14 52:15,18 55:13 50:3,24 53:6 insufficient
39:24 funds 29:1 governed 7:18 53:11 54:17 42:19 49:15,19
future 28:25 government I 27:11 30:10
G governs 41:12 identifies 41:8 59:18
22:10 general 1:22 46:1 implied 37:13 38:10,10 42:1
48:18,20 7:16 16:12 Great-West 38:19 40:4 49:1,3,7,16
52:25 24:9 31:15 31:7 51:1 51:12,13 55:15
46:10,13 51:18 Greenough import 27:14 insured's 40:25
37:15 July 53:1 60:5,20 61:3,6 know 17:11,25 left 13:10,12
41:25 June 52:19 53:1 18:3 44:9 45:3 43:11 57:15
47:10 Justice 1:22 4:3 K 45:25 48:3,5 legal 17:21 24:6
49:4,6 4:8,20,22 5:2,5 Kagan 17:20 48:19 50:18 26:6 44:3,4,20
51:2 5:10 6:9,18 18:3,7,20 19:6 54:23 55:7 44:24 45:1,5,9
8:20,24 9:9,10 26:18 36:25 knows 17:12 52:14,14 55:2
26:10 10:11,14,18,19 50:8,22 3:3,13 4:6 let's 41:13 44:11
54:8,9 12:7,11,25 Katyal 1:19 3:3 L 5:11,16 6:3,7
13:4,25 14:3,9 3:13 4:5,6,8,20 labeled 9:25 6:11 7:2,11,25
42:5 19:21 20:7,18 14:23 15:3,5 14:11 19:20,22 47:1,2 48:17
21:1,13,25 15:21 16:19,24 54:24 55:10 55:24 56:3,4
22:20 23:2,15 17:20 18:2,7 late 52:20 lienholder 25:15
24:15,20 25:3 20:18 21:5,19 Laughter 41:7 7:13 16:13
26:18 27:15 23:17,21 24:5 15:7,11,12 40:23
9:8,19 30:4,7,9,14,18 26:18 29:12 27:11,11 29:15 limited 47:8
13:2 14:7 30:21,25 31:11 50:13 57:10,11 29:22 31:17,18 49:19
32:2,14 33:1,4 57:13 58:5,16 33:1,4,25 limits 20:12
33:15 33:17,18,23 59:22,25 60:3 44:12,13 45:20 39:15 52:1
55:8 34:8,21,25 61:3 45:23 54:22 line 5:3 26:1
38:7 Kennedy 7:19 laws 59:17 40:19
48:19 50:1,4,8 kind 18:12 27:3 60:21 16:18 17:3
24:17 53:8,25 54:6 49:8 54:12 43:8,15 56:10 little 14:3 33:8
48:1,2 57:1,9,18,22 59:18 layman 17:12 lodged 11:23
1:10 4:4 5:22 34:11 35:24 P 4:1
16:25 55:20 56:19 43:5,20 46:12 O 3:1 4:1 9:4,13 11:11
19:15 58:23 51:13 56:4 obligated 12:21 11:22 19:21
21:15 McCutchen's 57:24 58:23 18:15 23:8 24:9
29:7,8,16 56:9 57:7 monies 36:1 obligations 40:14 52:10
38:11,25 McKee 44:19 months 23:10 24:10 31:24 pages 8:25 9:1
50:10 26:7 37:1 50:9 mortgage 25:13 obtained 36:2 14:16,17 25:14
meaningful 51:7 Palmer 36:14
means 4:17 N 3:1,1 4:1 offer 4:19 47:5
32:19 23:1 26:7 nature 20:2 okay 14:13 Palmore 1:21
3:13 4:6 57:11 once 4:24 5:17 25:21 26:9,13
members 60:12 need 7:4 51:2,15 opinion 6:19 32:12,25 33:9
37:14 neither 1:24 3:8 opportunity part 28:1 29:21
38:10 merits 53:7 net 13:10 opposed 35:20 participant
Mertens 46:1 never 9:5 14:8 opposition 9:7 12:16 34:11
mid-20th 51:5 new 32:10,11,12 oral 1:15 3:2,5,9 participants
54:13 55:16 37:3 order 14:19 particular 10:16
26:24 mistake 58:20 notice 20:24 outset 16:5,6 34:17 52:9
38:23 mixing 41:4 52:17 54:23 17:5 particularly
56:2 model 60:22 notion 18:13 overcome 24:7 34:19
modern 27:9 notwithstandi... 30:11 parties 16:5
3:10 14:16 18:16 nowadays 44:9 overriding 44:1,5 45:14
19:4,4 27:20 number 21:14 15:21 54:22 56:16
phrase 12:7 pocket 15:15 principal 29:16 46:3,8 51:23
38:10,11 plaintiff 48:1 10:19 11:19,20 31:16 39:15 60:13
42:1 plaintiffs 5:1 11:21 12:12 40:15,22 public 27:11
55:13 21:9 42:7 27:17 32:5 29:7 35:4,6,21 purely 44:22
plan 1:4,7 4:10 35:10 37:4,5,6 37:22 38:1,5 46:8
14:17 8:22,23 9:3,11 40:9 43:19 58:13 59:8 pursuant 23:16
34:11 9:11,12,14,15 44:18 55:22 prior 32:6 33:6 pursue 21:3,3
46:12 9:17,23 10:1,9 56:5 57:18 priority 5:11 46:7 51:24
61:2
58:1 59:15 19:3 56:4 pursued 35:15
12:19 13:5,5 policy 27:11 problems 42:23
8:9 11:1 15:23 16:2,16 6:15 7:9 21:16 13:3 14:25 question 6:14,18
16:20,23 17:3 32:3,4,7,16,21 proceeding 49:5 10:23 12:11
18:10 19:16 36:10 38:1 produce 27:24 23:3,11 25:7
22:24,25 30:14 power 59:9,10 28:1 28:8 39:22
34:3,11 38:24 25:3 30:15,18 prohibition 51:7 58:11
42:6 46:6 51:16,17 33:13,20,24 44:25 quite 5:5 10:12
52:11,12,14,14 precisely 19:25 5:24 22:23 26:22
3:4,14 4:7 55:1,2,3,4,4,12 59:22 47:13 57:4 44:22 48:25,25
42:5 55:21 56:1,19 precluding 54:1 proved 31:23
51:17
60:7 preexisting provide 28:25 40:18 49:20
52:2 60:11,13 57:20 59:5 33:15 40:24
plans 4:14 59:19 prejudice 12:22 provided 5:19 R
48:18 12:22 presented 10:24 17:3,6 24:17
56:6 plan-based 25:7 provides 8:8 raise 15:4 50:14
57:6 please 4:9 11:18 prevails 30:12 provision 19:17 15:2
39:22 reformation 33:16 45:10,20 40:4 44:12 35:8 36:7 37:2
refuting 38:9 59:10 49:1 53:14,18 41:5 43:1
48:14 regardless 55:19 31:17 ROBERTS 4:3 46:5 47:17
reimbursement requests 14:8 34:21 41:3 58:2 59:2,4
58:22,25 9:22,24 12:9 respect 8:5 9:2 54:6,25 57:1,9 10:19,22 11:15
58:19 19:1,9,12,17 32:25 34:13 rooted 59:3 15:9 17:8,11
29:23 25:19 26:3,15 responded 56:6 rule 16:12 20:19 25:3 26:5,11
57:11 38:4 39:23 2:1 3:11 4:19 36:22 40:9 35:8 36:4 44:8
60:15 24:10 33:25 18:25 26:21,25 se 59:13
14:15,16 18:14 29:7 39:1,13,22 48:11
48:24 reject 22:2 result 14:1,10 42:15 44:1,7 second 11:12,19
58:10 rejected 21:24 18:1 34:19 45:16 53:23 11:20 58:1
36:2 relates 55:10 reverse 16:3 Ryan 20:21 Secretary 32:7,8
51:13 relevant 7:11 review 10:15 32:11,12,17,18
49:20 39:14 42:8,9 rewrite 31:14 S 3:1 4:1 33:5,7,7
42:16 45:9 rewriting 31:1 saw 20:11 section 24:22,25
40:25 51:18,20 55:14 right 6:15 12:16 17:19 19:18 33:12 46:4,4
48:24 relies 59:7 12:22 13:24 22:17 23:18 51:16
rely 6:11 14:9 15:8,17 31:3 38:11,13 secured 29:19
remaining 57:10 24:7 27:4 says 7:23 12:1,8 15:20 26:23
45:3 rights 5:19 18:8 28:5,11,17 51:19
59:19 48:9 specific 46:11,18 38:20,25 39:10 takes 20:22 31:4
31:13 silo 29:5 specify 20:3 49:11 51:3,23 talk 19:1 29:11
simply 8:7 11:1 split 58:7 subtract 30:15 talked 33:14
56:2 single 48:17 60:8 suggest 36:25 56:20
49:24 started 51:6 suggesting talks 25:23
6:9,17 situations 21:7 27:11,12 58:17 summary 9:10 32:15,21,23
16:2,8 21:18 44:7 59:17 9:12 11:6 12:2 33:4 35:10
six 4:13 23:10 statement 21:20 12:13 14:6 43:8,9 47:20
25:9 27:6 Smith 13:5 States 1:1,16,23 17:5,6 21:22 55:1,5
33:22 15:13 48:4 3:7 7:21,25 8:5 52:6,9,11,13 ten 33:2
37:1 Solicitor 1:21 24:18 32:3,4 52:16 54:3 term 34:3 36:15
24:9 58:2 59:2 51:7 55:1,3 51:25 52:1
39:4 somebody 43:3 statute 8:7 23:16 superior 7:25 terms 4:11
40:1 50:15 stay 34:9 support 1:23 3:8 25:12,25 26:10
45:25 someone's 19:2 strikes 34:17 24:19 29:3 40:24
sorry 11:15 12:7 strong 53:21 suppose 7:22 46:6 51:20
21:11 19:7 44:10 60:20,21 text 6:19 37:2
42:15 12:7,25 16:11 47:3 8:14 10:15 56:8
60:3 17:2,4 21:13 subjugation 23:24 They'd 48:10
39:7,18 40:2 11:23 61:8,10 16:24 43:20 12:15 13:12
49:3 58:16 59:16,23 6:24 7:5 8:5 48:14 57:1 45:23 52:8
sought 45:9 17:23 18:5,8 Svea 47:18 10:11,14 12:24
42:21 sound 7:18 19:24 22:22,24 T 19:14 20:11
19:24 23:1,1,2 25:19 T 3:1,1 21:19 22:4,23
45:19 53:22 55:11,12 37:11,12,14 taken 10:20 31:10,12 32:14
43:15 true 8:4 37:16 understand 6:1 27:17 32:9,18 54:16 55:6
44:18 54:3 20:9 38:7 40:2 32:23 33:6,8 56:22 57:2,14
50:19,19 trump 23:12 understanding 39:6 41:11 West 40:11 46:1
54:16 54:23 58:9 46:18,20,25 we'll 4:3 43:2
55:7,18 trumps 59:5 understood 53:12,17 we're 5:8 6:6,7
trust 29:15,22 20:10 vivid 60:9 7:20 8:19
42:1 31:25 32:1 43:24,25 44:4 18:17 27:16
58:9 trustee 29:20,21 unfairness W 39:25 43:10
31:23 unfortunately waived 52:5,24 55:8 59:11
56:9 try 16:25 50:16 41:5 53:6 we've 25:7 34:16
trying 5:8 38:24 United 1:1,16,23 walks 50:15 45:7 47:6 48:3
56:17 turn 51:5 32:4 16:7 32:20 56:13
12:14 18:8 24:12 29:3,13 48:1,14 52:4 48:4,6
22:21 27:1 39:15 40:15 Washington win 4:25
28:24 40:3,5 41:8,10 58:13 59:7,10 wasn't 20:14 witnesses 13:11
53:10 47:9 52:8 59:13 61:1,5 22:8 32:10 word 10:12
two-and-a-half 57:23 19:10 20:11 words 4:24
42:5 unusual 14:24 47:3 60:4 20:11 22:17
46:23 unworkable week 53:10 worth 20:14
42:1,14 typical 20:4 use 26:10 30:22 29:21 wouldn't 14:10
typically 22:16 50:17 59:14 went 22:8 20:13 44:10
Wessler 1:25 written 14:19
9:2 valid 24:10 38:17 39:13,21 wrote 14:22
40:10 20:1 various 30:21,22 41:18 43:25 W.H 1:25 3:10
unavailable vicarious 18:12 44:17 45:6,24 34:23
60:5
8:25
6:19 19:21
4
40:13
474 40:13
52:10
1:17 4:2 5
5:19 7:23 5 11:11
11:1 13:5 50 13:19 22:5
60:14 50,000 13:8,10
13:8,9 13:13,18 27:24
27:24 502(a)(1)(b)
61:2 46:5
1:6 4:4 502(a)(3) 24:23
61:9 24:25 30:16
47:24 31:4 33:12
24:9 46:9 51:16
28:16,17 57 3:14
50:7
50:11
8:15 58:18 64 22:6
44:19 9
8:15 58:18 9 32:5
60:3 92 15:15
20:21 92,000 15:14
98,000 60:24
15:15 39:24
9:4
1:13 52:19
23:13,13
11:22 41:23
3:7
23:8
