IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CARLOS TREVINO, :
Petitioner : No. 11-10189
v. :
RICK THALER, DIRECTOR, TEXAS :
DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE, :
CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTIONS :
DIVISION :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, February 25, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
WARREN A. WOLF, ESQ., San Antonio, Texas; on behalf of
Petitioner.
ANDREW S. OLDHAM, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Austin, Texas; on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
WARREN A. WOLF, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ANDREW S. OLDHAM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 20
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
WARREN A. WOLF, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 49
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear next
this morning in Case 11-10189, Trevino v. Thaler.
Mr. Wolf?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF WARREN A. WOLF
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. WOLF: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals has
said, repeatedly, "As a general rule, a defendant should
not raise an issue of ineffective assistance of counsel
on direct appeal," and has recognized that Texas
procedure make it, "virtually impossible for appellate
counsel to adequately present such a claim." Those
claims are the choices made by the sovereign State of
Texas, and it renders this case just like Martinez.
This case well illustrates the consequences
of that choice. The transcript in this case was not
ready -- available for 7 months. That's 4 1/2 months
after the trial lost -- trial court lost jurisdiction on
any new trial motion.
The State itself argued, quote -- in
Sprouse -- "Without access to that record, new counsel
would have little basis for attacking the performance of
trial counsel."
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose the State's
position were not as you accurately have stated the
Texas Court of Criminal Appeal. It didn't say
collateral review is the preferred route. It said
either way will do. You can bring it up on direct
appeal, or you can bring it up on collateral.
Would you say that Martinez applies in that
situation? Or does it depend on having the -- the State
highest court in the matter saying, this is the
preferred way to go?
MR. WOLF: Texas systemically channels
ineffective assistance claims to collateral -- to State
habeas.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And if it didn't, if it
just said, you can bring it up on direct, but we realize
these limitations because the transcript won't be ready,
so you can wait and bring it up on habeas.
I'm just asking how far -- the rule that you
would like us to adopt -- you say this is just like
Martinez. Is that where you would draw the line, that
the -- the State's highest court has to say, we prefer
this matter to be brought up on collateral review?
MR. WOLF: It's not just them saying it in
words, but it's also saying it in the legislation and in
the rules that the State of Texas has adopted.
In order to expand the record in a Wiggins
claim -- which is what's the basis of Mr. Trevino's
claim, in order to expand that record, you have a 30-day
window to file a motion for new trial, and 75 days --
75 days to have a hearing on it or else the court loses
jurisdiction by operation of law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The district court,
the trial court?
MR. WOLF: That's correct. And so you
couldn't expand the record. And, in order to present a
Wiggins claim, especially, it takes a considerable
amount of extra record investigation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Has the Texas --
have the Texas appellate courts ever sent a -- a claim
back for an evidentiary hearing?
MR. WOLF: After 75 days, the -- the
district court loses jurisdiction, and I realize there
are some jurisdictions around the country that have that
opportunity. But Texas has a finality where there is no
provision to expand the record after that 75-day period.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So far as you know,
the court -- the appellate court's never done that?
MR. WOLF: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Why does
Texas afford people in your client's position a new
appellate counsel?
MR. WOLF: Well, there's two -- actually,
Texas has a dual-track system. It was developed in
1995, a year before the Federal system was developed in
AEDPA. And the concept -- and the reason for it -- the
rationale, was to expedite these type of claims,
especially in death penalty claims, under
Section 11.071.
But the -- and the purpose is that there is
two counsels that are appointed. One counsel is
appointed to handle the record-based claims, and that's
done on direct appeal. The other counsel is appointed
in all cases -- there's no question -- on habeas.
And that attorney -- that counsel is
appointed with the understanding that he's going to have
the time to do the extra-record-based claims. In a case
like this, the record wasn't even prepared for 7 months
after the date of the judgment.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I don't know
that you've answered Justice Ginsburg's question, and so
I'm going to take it up because it interests me.
Let's assume, as she did in her
hypothetical, that a State says -- doesn't have any case
law like Texas does, that says, we prefer you to go that
way, for non-record-based claims.
Is the difference between that hypothetical
State that says, you can do either, and the Texas
situation, is that Texas, in your mind, puts up
procedural impediments to using the direct appeal
mechanism and so that, if the other State hasn't done
that, has made the development of evidence, has provided
a full opportunity for you to develop a record before
the direct appeal is over with, that State wouldn't be
subject to Martinez, and Texas is subject to it only
because it has the procedural impediments?
MR. WOLF: That's correct because the -- the
scheme that Texas has developed systemically channels
the habeas claim, the IAC claim, the ineffective
assistance claim, into habeas. There is no -- to say
that it could be done is really an illusion.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: How -- how do you want us
to formulate the rule if we write the opinion in your
favor? If a State does not give a realistic
opportunity -- a feasible means for expanding the record
on direct review, then Martinez applies because it is
the collateral proceeding that is the meaningful one --
and then we go through 50 States to see if that rule
applies?
MR. WOLF: Well, it wouldn't really affect
50 States because some States provide a mechanism for an
abatement to go back on direct appeal and -- and expand
the record. Other States require that it go to direct
appeal, and each -- and those States made -- have made a
choice.
And Texas has made a choice by developing
this scheme. And as far as the other States, they would
have to compare themselves to the situation that -- that
we would -- that would come out of this. This --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I have the same
questions that my colleagues have asked. Could you give
us, in a sentence or two, the test that you would like
us to apply? Where a State does not, like Arizona,
prohibit the raising of this issue on direct appeal,
Martinez, nevertheless, applies where the State does
blank. Fill in the blank.
MR. WOLF: When it makes it impracticable,
in the vast majority of cases, to raise the claim on
direct appeal.
JUSTICE ALITO: Impracticable, in the vast
majority of cases. Now, that really would require a
case-by-case determination in every other State that
doesn't fall within the Martinez category, wouldn't it?
MR. WOLF: Well, not necessarily --
JUSTICE ALITO: No?
MR. WOLF: -- Justice Alito, because
there's -- some States require that their -- their cases
are directed back to -- to direct appeal, and there's a
mechanism to expand the record. There is some -- there
is -- some require it to go to direct appeal.
But, in Texas, what we have is a limitation
that's the rules that the Texas Supreme Court has
devised, with Texas --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I understand that.
But -- so -- so the State says, you have to raise this
on direct appeal, but you have to comply with our time
limits on direct appeal. And they don't appoint -- you
know, you don't get a new -- you don't get a new
attorney on direct appeal. It's the same attorney who
represented you at trial. So that attorney is in the
position of arguing that he or she was ineffective at
trial.
And that would be okay?
MR. WOLF: If the -- let me make sure I
understand the question.
JUSTICE ALITO: You have to raise it on
direct appeal or it's lost. You can't wait until
collateral -- until the collateral proceeding, and, by
the way, you don't get a new attorney. You get the same
attorney that represented you at trial. Would that be
all right?
MR. WOLF: No, because the new -- the old
attorney -- the trial attorney is in the worst, really,
position to understand his ineffectiveness. There is a
disincentive for him --
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. So you have the
same system where you get a new attorney, but you have
to comply with the time limits.
MR. WOLF: And that --
JUSTICE ALITO: And then you say, well, I
can't do all of this social background research that
Wiggins requires within the time limits, so that's
impracticable. Is that State okay?
MR. WOLF: No, because that's --
JUSTICE ALITO: That's not okay, either.
MR. WOLF: Because that State is -- in the
Texas scheme -- in the Texas scheme, the -- Texas gives
us another attorney in this dual track -- this system,
and it's understood that that attorney is the habeas
attorney. And he doesn't -- he doesn't have that time
limitation that the direct appeal attorney has,
that's -- that 75-day limitation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But is your point that he
has to have one full and fair opportunity to make the
Wiggins claim, and it doesn't matter whether it's direct
or collateral? I think you mentioned that at least one
State requires you to do it on direct, but does provide
for developing the record.
MR. WOLF: But the -- the bottom line in --
in our situation, in Texas, is that we have a scheme.
We have a set of -- of laws and -- and rules that
channel these type of claims.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What are the rules other
than the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals having said, in
several decisions, the preferred route is collateral
review?
MR. WOLF: Well, first of all, the -- the
Rule -- the Rules of Appellate Procedure 21.8 talk about
the limitations of -- the number of days that you have
to expand the record in a motion for new trial.
75 days, the -- the district court loses jurisdiction,
they cannot hear anything else on this case. The record
in this case wasn't even available for 7 months after
the date of the trial.
So, even with a new attorney that's
appointed -- first of all, that new attorney is a
stranger to the case. He doesn't know anything about
the case. He's not in a position to talk to the client.
The client is not the best person to understand the
Rules of Appellate Procedure.
So he's got to wait on that -- on that trial
record, first of all, to see what's there. And then --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm -- I'm not sure
exactly what Justice Ginsburg's formulation was, but I
didn't -- I don't understand why you didn't say, oh,
yes, that's right, there has to be one full fair
opportunity to raise the issue. And that's what we are
arguing here.
MR. WOLF: I'm sorry if -- if I missed that,
but that's exactly the point. And that's what --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then the next -- then my
question is: Does this apply just to capital cases?
MR. WOLF: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could we in a -- oh. So
this doesn't apply just to capital cases, in your
opinion?
MR. WOLF: Not necessarily. But the -- in
the capital arena in Texas, we have the dual-track
system, where you get an attorney appointed
automatically in a habeas setting, where, in a non-death
penalty setting, there is a possibility of getting an
attorney in the interest of justice, but it's not always
guaranteed. And, in that case, the appeal is done in a
successive way, not in this dual-track way.
And in -- in the death penalty arena, it
manifests -- it makes it even more manifestly obvious
that there is a systematic channeling by the State
referring these type of claims into habeas, while the
State attorney, the district appeals attorney, focuses
on the record-based claim, and the habeas attorney is
dealing with all of the case, not just the trial, but
the -- the appeal, to make sure that there was no
ineffectiveness on his part, that -- and also to do the
investigation on the extra-record-based claims, which
takes a substantial amount of time.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, you -- you
started to answer this question, but it is something
raised by many of the amici opposing your position,
which is that, by adopting your position, we're
essentially having to examine the 49-plus -- because we
have territories that have collateral and direct review
as well -- plus systems to see which apply -- to which
Martinez applies and to which -- to which Martinez
doesn't apply.
And so the question is: How do we write
this to sort of give enough guidance, so that we're not
examining each of the 49 -- or 49 systems -- or maybe
48, after we've decided Martinez?
MR. WOLF: Right. Well, I would suggest --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And -- and why should we
not fear that outcome?
MR. WOLF: Okay. I would suggest the rule
to be that Martinez applies when a State channels
ineffective assistance of counsel claims to State habeas
and makes it impracticable in the vast majority of cases
to raise the claim on direct appeal.
And, in answer to your question about all of
the States, many of the States do make it -- do make
habeas available in the direct appeal arena. So it's --
JUSTICE ALITO: So the reason why -- the
reason why there was a movement to channel ineffective
assistance of counsel claims to collateral review is
that it is often -- maybe in the great majority of
cases -- impracticable to adjudicate them on direct
appeal. So, under your standard, it seems to me that
covers every State.
MR. WOLF: Well, it wouldn't, Justice Alito,
for this reason: Many States have a mechanism, unlike
the Texas scheme, which permits the expansion of the
record. Some States, like Utah, who authored the amicus
brief, has a Rule 21.3, which permits the claimant to go
back and expand the record. We don't have the -- that
ability in Texas.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, your friend
says, page 18 of his brief, that you do. He says,
"Under Texas Rule of Appellate Procedure 21, direct
appeal counsel can supplement the record with evidence
developed by investigators and experts, the ones that
are appointed and paid for by the State on appeal."
Now, is that just wrong?
MR. WOLF: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
MR. WOLF: And the reason I say that is, in
order to obtain a record, one, you need to -- when you
file your motion for new trial, you have to specifically
set out the factual basis for the claim; and, two, the
affidavit has to identify the evidence that any further
investigation would have revealed.
So you've got that 30-day window when you
file that motion for new trial that you have to do all
of those things, and that's not enough time.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So if everything -- if
everything in Texas's system were the same, but you had
a year, would that flip Texas into a different category?
MR. WOLF: If the --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Is the problem -- is what
makes this impracticable just the amount of time?
MR. WOLF: Yes, because the time -- the
time -- especially in a Wiggins claim, is prohibitive in
order to be able to prepare and -- not just the time
there, but the time that is imposed by the Rules of --
of Appellate Procedure.
That 75-day window, in order to expand the
record, is part of this whole system, that it's
understood that the habeas claim is the -- the IAC claim
is channelled into habeas.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me try this one
more time. You -- you seem to say, in your brief, that
the Kansas procedure and the -- the Michigan procedure
take those States outside of the Martinez category; is
that correct?
MR. WOLF: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. Now, as I
understand the procedure in those cases, it is the
following: On direct appeal, the attorney can make a
motion for a new trial based on ineffective assistance
of counsel, and, if some threshold is met, the appellate
court can remand the case to the trial court for a
hearing on ineffective assistance.
Is that correct?
MR. WOLF: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. And that would -- in
most of those cases, the attorney on direct appeal is
going to be the attorney who represented the defendant
at trial and is probably not going to be in a very good
position to argue that he or she was ineffective at
trial, but that would still be okay?
MR. WOLF: Well, but it's a --
JUSTICE ALITO: And if you don't do that,
you've lost it.
MR. WOLF: Well, there's a problem with
declaring yourself ineffective. One, it's -- it's kind
of counterintuitive. In Texas, if you declare yourself
ineffective, there's repercussions. You're no longer
available to -- you know, be taken off the list to get
appointments on these type of claims.
And -- and it's also against the Bar rules
to -- to have that adverse interest against your client.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, if that is the
system in Kansas and Michigan, then why -- why is it
outside Martinez, if the point is you can't effectively
present the ineffective assistance counsel when you've
got the same counsel who was alleged to have been
ineffective and is not going to condemn himself?
MR. WOLF: Well, that -- as far as their
State -- you know, other States are concerned -- you
know, those are problems within those States. But as
far as Texas is concerned -- you know, we are in a
situation that we find ourselves in -- in a Martinez
situation, where there was no ability to -- to raise --
the system that we have prevents you from raising this
claim.
And, as far as the other States are
concerned, some of the States have a more liberal
opportunity to -- to expand the record, but that's not
the system that we have in Texas. And this --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Explain why the time that
you have on direct appeal isn't adequate. So you say
you need -- need to investigate. Well, some of the
things, like school records, his prison records, it
doesn't take a long time to get those, does it?
MR. WOLF: Well, it -- it takes a while.
I'm not going to say a long while, but releases are
required. Sometimes, there's opposition to releasing
those records. But the biggest part of -- of this whole
problem is getting the record, is also, in our
situation, to have Mr. Trevino evaluated regarding
his -- there was never a psychological or sociological
study done in his case, and to have a psychological eval
done, that doesn't happen in 30 days.
And one -- you've got to get the records,
and, in some of these situations, one record leads to
another record and finding one witness leads to another
witness. And, by the time you start developing all
these other avenues and when you put all that together,
then you're in a position to present that to an expert,
in order to make that sort of evaluation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, surely --
surely, the trial court in Texas, when it gets a new
trial motion within 30 days, and the new counsel on
appeal says, well, I have reason to believe -- well, we
can see that there wasn't an adequate investigation of
mitigating circumstances or whatever made below, and I
would like the time to conduct -- you know, the
psychological evaluation or to contact these witnesses,
is the trial court going to say no?
MR. WOLF: That's correct because the
30 days is -- is a limit; it's a bar. That's all he
has. And, in addition, the -- the direct appeal
attorney has his own responsibilities. There's a
division of labor that's here, that the direct appeal
attorney is supposed to review the entire record, to
look for all of whatever errors that might be there.
And while -- and that's why, in Texas, where
you have this dual-track system in order to expedite the
appeal, there is a new attorney that's appointed to do
the habeas work.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And because of the rather
sharp disagreements in the briefs on what the actual
facts are here, I looked at the brief filed by the State
Bar of Texas in support of neither party.
Can you tell me -- and that they are
critical of having new counsel work simultaneously on a
simultaneous timeframe concurrently with the -- with the
new direct appeal counsel.
Can you tell me how anything that's said in
the Texas Bar briefs helps your case?
MR. WOLF: Well, it helps our case because
it recognizes the dual-track system, and it recognizes
that the extra record under Section 12.22 of the
guide -- of the Texas guidelines that -- that were
formulated that the State Bar was -- one of their
committees on indigent defense helped develop.
They recognize the fact that extra record
investigation is the responsibility of the habeas
counsel.
I would like to reserve the balance of my
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Oldham?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW S. OLDHAM
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. OLDHAM: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please
the Court:
Texas's procedures for raising
ineffectiveness claims are some of the most generous in
the country. Those procedures offered Petitioner two
bites at the apple.
The first bite came in a constitutionally
protected direct appeal proceeding. And any deficiency
in that proceeding would have been the source of cause
under existing cause and prejudice standards to excuse a
subsequent default.
Allowing the Petitioner to assert cause on
the basis of a second bite at the apple -- that is, a
State habeas proceeding -- would create an unwarranted
and unworkable extension of Martinez.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why is it a second bite
when the Texas Supreme Court -- court of criminal
appeals, has said, again and again, as a general rule,
defendants should not raise ineffective assistance of
trial counsel on direct appeal, should raise it on
collateral review?
MR. OLDHAM: Justice Ginsburg, the very next
sentence of that opinion, Mata v. State, states that the
lack of a clear record, usually, will prevent the
appellant from meeting the first part of the Strickland
test as the reasonableness of counsel's choices and
motivations during trial can be proven deficient only
through facts that don't normally appear in the
appellate record.
So the only question presented by those
instructions that are quoted over and over again in the
Petitioner's briefs is whether and to what extent
newly-appointed counsel -- as Justice Alito was pointing
out, Texas provides newly-appointed counsel on direct
appeal in capital cases -- can supplement the appellate
record with an explanation from the trial -- trial
counsel.
And where the new counsel gets an
explanation of the strategies of the trial counsel, the
record is then complete --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't -- does the
statement "defendants should not raise ineffective
assistance of trial counsel on direct appeal" doesn't
mean what it says?
MR. OLDHAM: Oh, yes, ma'am. It does mean
that. It's just that what -- what the Court is
saying -- the very next sentence following the ones that
are quoted in the Petitioner's brief, says, "The reason
that one should not raise an issue of ineffective
assistance of counsel on direct appeal is because, in
cases where there is no explanation from the trial
counsel, it will be impossible to adjudicate the first
prong of the Strickland test."
It doesn't say that, as a general rule, you
should just never do it. It just says, if you are
actually going to raise a claim of ineffective
assistance, you should create the proper record before
you do it. And --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then -- but the
comment is that the record has to be done within a very
short period of time, and the -- and the trial record
isn't even available for -- the transcript, for some 7
months.
MR. OLDHAM: Yes, Justice Kennedy, and that
is why Texas has a procedure for abating and remanding
appeals that is materially identical to the one that
Kansas provides and the Petitioner concedes is
sufficient to satisfy this Court's inquiry in Martinez.
So the way that the procedure in Texas would
work, as it does in Kansas, is that the newly appointed
direct appeal lawyer -- who has no conflict and is,
therefore, free to accuse trial counsel of being
ineffective -- would file a motion to stay the appeal,
abate it, and remand it to the trial court.
The showing in both States is roughly the
same; it's a facially plausible claim of
ineffectiveness.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So the new counsel on
direct waits for 7 months, gets the transcript. In the
meantime, let's assume has made some investigation, and
he said -- and he tells the appellate court, we have
some very important material that we want to introduce
and we need to supplement the record; please remand this
case.
MR. OLDHAM: Yes, Your Honor. And one
point --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That -- that has never
happened in the State of Texas in a capital case, I take
it?
MR. OLDHAM: I'm not aware of a capital
case, but it has been done in many, many noncapital
cases. And the Court of Criminal Appeals has
specifically blessed it, especially -- particularly in a
case involving a Wiggins type ineffective assistance of
counsel at punishment phase.
That is a case called Cooks v. State. It's
cited on pages 32 and 34 of our brief.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the Fifth Circuit was
wrong, the circuit that ruled in favor of Texas, but
said, in the Ibarra case, the Texas Court of Criminal
Appeals has made it clear that State habeas petitions --
and the State habeas petition is the preferred vehicle
for developing ineffective assistance claims?
Was that wrong?
MR. OLDHAM: I believe it just needs to be
taken in the context of -- it is the preferred vehicle
if you have not developed the record to bring a claim --
or to bring a claim appropriately on direct appeal.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you just please --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Oldham, I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let me understand what
you are suggesting. Counsel doesn't have a record. He
or she is newly appointed. Can they go into court and
say, I don't know if there is an ineffective assistance
of counsel claim, but I need to protect my client and
abate this hearing now, until I get the trial record,
whether it takes 6 months, 7 months, or a year.
What will the court do with its rule that
requires counsel to provide affidavits setting forth the
good-faith basis for a claim?
MR. OLDHAM: Well, Justice Sotomayor,
many -- many prisoners in Texas, in capital and
noncapital contexts alike, have done that within the
30 days, but I want to emphasize --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How many were given an
indefinite stay until they got the trial record to set
forth the affidavits?
MR. OLDHAM: Well, if it's done within the
first 30 days, you don't need a stay, indefinite or
otherwise. You can just file --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what do you do with
the 75-day rule, which I think is absolute, which says,
if the court hasn't ruled on the new trial within
75 days, the matter ends?
MR. OLDHAM: I think the easiest way to
think about it is there are basically three stages.
There is the first 30-day window, and, as I say, many
capital and noncapital prisoners have effectively
brought their claims in that 30-day window.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Some of them have the
information, and some don't.
MR. OLDHAM: That's correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So --
MR. OLDHAM: So that's the first box, but
it's certainly not the last.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The guys who do it, it's
because they have the information, and so they've
exhausted their claim. But we are talking about the
people who don't.
MR. OLDHAM: So to the second -- the second
box. After the new trial motion has been denied by an
operation of law, you can make, effectively, a factual
proffer of -- so the -- the trial court no longer has
jurisdiction to grant your motion, but you can make a
factual proffer of what you would have shown and what
you want to show to the court of appeals.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That assumes you get the
transcript.
MR. OLDHAM: Well, we are still prior to the
transcript because this is still -- this is still --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, the 75 days has
passed.
MR. OLDHAM: And then, after that, there is
no briefing that has been done in the appellate court at
this point because the appellate briefing schedule and
the transcript production are tied to one another, so it
would never be a case where you're actually litigating a
direct appeal without the transcript. You -- the latter
doesn't start until you get the former.
And, at that point, you can make a motion to
stay and abate to return to the district court and to
supplement the record with evidence of your trial
counsel's ineffectiveness.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even beyond the
75 days?
MR. OLDHAM: Yes, Your Honor. It
effectively restarts the 30-day clock, so the -- the old
75 days is obviously gone, and you get a new 35 days on
the stay and abate motion. So, in that sense, it's
materially identical to the procedure that Kansas
applies, although, as I mentioned earlier, in capital
cases, the State of Texas guarantees its prisoners a new
conflict-free lawyer, who can help with that proceeding.
JUSTICE BREYER: So he can do this -- I
didn't understand this. I'm sorry.
Joe Smith is convicted on day 1. The
transcript appears 9 months later. Okay? 9 months
later his new lawyer, who is supposed to proceed on
appeal, reads the transcript. He thinks, hmm, I think
there was a problem with his lawyer at the trial, and I
would like to raise this claim and get a new trial.
And you are saying what he does is he goes
back to the trial court, and he says, Judge, I just read
this, it raises some factual matters; will you please
give me an evidentiary hearing with the old lawyer there
and me there, so we can develop this?
Now, that is what -- how Texas works?
MR. OLDHAM: Your --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because I did not get that
impression from the State Bar brief, but you are saying
that is how it works?
MR. OLDHAM: Almost exactly, except that you
go to -- you go to the court of appeals and --
JUSTICE BREYER: You go to the court of
appeals, and what do you say? You say, court of
appeals, will you please direct the trial court to have
an evidentiary hearing on the adequacy of trial counsel
before you hear the appeal?
MR. OLDHAM: You ask for --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that yes or no?
MR. OLDHAM: Yes, although it's called a new
trial motion.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Even if you haven't made
the new trial motion within the 30 days, initially?
MR. OLDHAM: That's right. This is the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So you are just
saying that they are all wrong about how Texas works, so
I guess you -- you could refer to a case where that
happened.
MR. OLDHAM: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, in what case did that
happen?
MR. OLDHAM: It's called Cooks vs. State.
JUSTICE BREYER: Cooks vs. State. And they
got the transcript, months later, and they looked back,
and they said, oh, dear, there was something wrong with
the trial performance. So we go to the Federal
appeals -- the State appeals court, and we say, State
appeals court, please direct an evidentiary hearing.
And they directed an evidentiary hearing,
and they had an evidentiary hearing before the trial
judge -- really, what would have happened on State
habeas?
MR. OLDHAM: Except that they didn't get
actually get the evidentiary hearing in Cooks because
there was no facially plausible showing of the claim
that they would have raised. But --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, I am
puzzled about what I'm supposed to do because I would
have thought that the standard's fairly easy, that this
individual must always have one full and fair
opportunity to present his claim of inadequate
assistance at trial.
There are certain things that could deprive
him of that. One, his lawyer in the habeas State could
be incompetent -- all these lawyers could be
incompetent. Or the State, at a certain stage, didn't
give him enough proceeding. All right?
Well, what do I do, where people are
disagreeing about how the State procedure works, as to
whether it was full and fair? What do I do? What is
your suggestion?
By the way, if he doesn't get the full and
fair, he still has to show to the Federal habeas judge
that he has a substantial claim, that that trial was
not -- so what do you suggest?
MR. OLDHAM: Well, Your Honor, where he
doesn't get a full and fair opportunity, whether it's
because his new lawyer is ineffective, his old lawyer
was ineffective, the transcript wasn't available, the
very case that we're talking about, the Cooks case,
recognizes that that is a violation of the United States
Constitution.
And you have -- that prisoner would have a
constitutional claim to assert for the failure of his
counsel, the failure of the circumstances --
JUSTICE BREYER: Right now -- but I'm saying
what I would like you to sympathize with my problem. My
problem is I have seen -- I have a bunch of briefs. And
they seem to me that what you have just described is a
full and fair procedure to develop all these evidentiary
matters before the appeal even takes place.
It exists in Texas, and, therefore, unless
he could say his lawyer there was incompetent, he's out
of luck. Okay? The other side seems to say, no, it
doesn't exist in Texas. And, now, what am I supposed to
do, since I am not an expert on Texas procedure?
MR. OLDHAM: Well, Your Honor, I think you
could do one of two things. You could always certify
the question with the Court of Criminal Appeals if you
thought that the question -- that the answer turns on
what the Texas procedures are and that the parties
disagree with them.
JUSTICE BREYER: I tried that once in a case
involving Pennsylvania, and the result was such that I
resolved never to do it again.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: But -- but don't say never.
All right. So one thing we got --
JUSTICE ALITO: That was a case in which --
that was the case in which the Court unwisely reversed a
certain Third Circuit decision.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we have a clue,
Mr. Oldham, if the information is correct, that direct
appeal counsel in the county involved here gets a very
limited amount of money -- gets, they said it's $1,500
fixed fee.
But, if counsel who's appointed as
collateral review gets $25,000, doesn't that suggest
that the -- that the counsel on direct appeal is
expected to deal with trial errors and the one that gets
all this $25,000 can go out and find a psychologist, a
sociologist, whoever is going to give us a profile on
this person?
MR. OLDHAM: No, Your Honor. And that is
because the funding thresholds that are cited for the
first time in the reply brief are wrong in two respects.
One is those -- those only came into effect after the
filing of the State habeas and after the filing of the
direct appeal in this case.
But the second -- and perhaps I think more
relevant sense in which they're wrong, is it does apply
to the amount of money that are given to the lawyers;
whereas the subsection (l) provision that we've cited in
our brief applies to the money for investigators and
experts.
It's reimbursement for investigators and
experts. It's not the amount of money they give to the
lawyer.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it true that it's the
county that reimburses the direct appeal counsel and the
State reimburses the habeas counsel?
MR. OLDHAM: Yes, Your Honor, after 1999.
But the State habeas application in this case was filed
a month before that statute went into effect.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but you -- you say
it's before, but this -- this indicates how Texas views
its system. And, as Justice Ginsburg indicates, Texas
views this system as being one in which the collateral
appeal -- or the collateral proceeding counsel is in the
best position to raise IAC claims.
That's -- that's just where it is. And
the -- the State Bar says -- agrees with the
Respondent -- pardon me -- with the Petitioner on this
point.
MR. OLDHAM: Justice Kennedy, the court of
criminal appeals has said that the -- that claims of
ineffective assistance of trial counsel properly can be
brought on direct appeal.
The Texas State legislature has said it by
authorizing a new direct appeal attorney and stating,
throughout the legislative history -- and I think in the
text and structure of the statute -- that they intend
for these claims to be able to be brought on direct
appeal -- not that they are channeled on direct appeal;
they're not channelled either way.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, able -- able to be
brought, Mr. Oldham, but, as Justice Ginsburg started
off by saying, many times, the court of criminal appeals
has said the preferred method is to bring it on
collateral appeal.
And, more to the point even, when attorneys
try to bring these kinds of claims on a motion for a new
trial, the typical response is to say, no, this is not
the proper venue for that, go back and do it again on
collateral review.
So we have -- you say that there's a formal
mechanism that could be used. But it seems as though
the courts and the lawyers, both, in Texas, are being
told continually, don't use that form of mechanism;
instead, do this on collateral review.
MR. OLDHAM: Justice Kagan, I am aware of no
case where someone's brought a new trial motion that --
in the procedurally proper way -- and been told not to
do it that way. I think what we --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, isn't the usual
response just to dismiss it without prejudice and to
say, we don't have time to deal with this, go away, come
back again on collateral review?
MR. OLDHAM: No, Your Honor. That's --
that's the usual response when the record is
insufficient. That is, when you haven't -- you haven't
given your trial lawyer --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, because, mostly, the
record isn't sufficient for a Wiggins claim. So anytime
somebody brings a Wiggins claim on this 30-day window,
the Court says -- you know, there's only 30 days, the
record is insufficient. Go away, do it again.
MR. OLDHAM: Your Honor, that's not what
happened in the Armstrong case, where someone brought a
Wiggins -- it's not what happened in the --
JUSTICE KAGAN: That's your one case, it
seems to me. You only have one case. It's Armstrong.
Armstrong seems to me sort of like proof as to why it is
that the Texas courts don't do that generally because
what they did in Armstrong was they ended up trying to
adjudicate that on the merits and realizing that there
was -- that the record wasn't sufficient.
MR. OLDHAM: Your Honor, it's -- it's not
the only case -- you know, we have -- a similar claim
was raised in the Motley case, which was cited in our
brief. It was also raised in a Rosales case, also cited
in our brief. Similar to Wiggins kinds of cases.
And then -- in the Motley case, they were
able to have school teachers testify. There was a
neurological examination done. I mean, it's certainly a
practical way to do it, and it -- it is as generous or
more generous than a lot of the States in the country,
including States that Petitioner concedes are --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you agree, Mr. Oldham,
that, if you didn't have the mechanism for a new trial,
then you would form under the Martinez rule?
MR. OLDHAM: With no new trial and no
standing abatement?
JUSTICE KAGAN: In other words, no
opportunity for factual development.
MR. OLDHAM: If there was no opportunity to
develop -- to develop the facts and there was
practically no opportunity to -- to raise the claim on
direct appeal, I think the question would still turn on
whether and to what extent there was a constitutional
right to have an effective appeal of that issue.
And the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals has
afforded constitutional protection to that new trial
window and to the meaningfulness of the record necessary
to raise these claims on direct appeal. And I think
that is what is sufficient to move this case out of the
Martinez box and into the normal cause and prejudice
standards that this Court applies --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I -- can I go back
to what you are proposing, okay, and what you are saying
this system stands for? If an ineffective assistance of
counsel claim is brought on direct appeal, with or
without a record -- or it says, we don't have a record,
it throws it into collateral review, as I have seen it
do dozens of times -- are you saying, in that situation,
that Martinez applies?
Counsel raised it, but was told, we're not
going to decide it. Puts them into collateral review.
Does Martinez apply there?
MR. OLDHAM: If it happened in every single
case and there was no opportunity --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, forget it -- that --
when it happens?
MR. OLDHAM: Oh, no, Your Honor. I don't
believe that Martinez would apply in that circumstance.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Okay. So they haven't
gotten a full and fair opportunity because they
presented their case, but Texas has said, we don't want
to do it here, do it there. You are still saying
Martinez doesn't apply?
MR. OLDHAM: Precisely, because there is no
default upon which to apply Martinez, so there's
nothing -- there is no work for Martinez to do in that
hypothetical, precisely because the claim can be met --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So because it can, but
Texas chose not to, now there's no protection, there is
no full and fair opportunity for the petitioner to have
had that claim adjudicated?
That's really the end result of what you're
saying.
MR. OLDHAM: Well, I'm certainly not
suggesting that the rule needs to turn on the
meaningfulness of the opportunity to raise it on direct
appeal. I think that Martinez was very clear when it
said -- whether it's a complete --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You raised it, and the
State said, well, go to collateral review. You're
saying, no -- no Martinez protection?
MR. OLDHAM: Well, I don't --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The counsel was
ineffective in habeas in that -- in State habeas, you --
you can do nothing about it.
MR. OLDHAM: Well, you don't -- there's
nothing to do in the sense that, in that very
hypothetical, that very claim could be raised in habeas
the first time, but it also could be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: There's clearly no Martinez
protection. The question you are being asked, I think,
boils down to whether we should develop a new case,
Martinez plus, in which -- even though there is,
technically, the ability to raise it, which is all that
Martinez spoke about, the mere fact that the ability to
raise it is not effective enough should produce the same
result that Martinez produced.
I don't think there is any -- I'm not even
sure the other side claims that Martinez said what --
what he is arguing here.
MR. OLDHAM: I think that's exactly right,
Justice Scalia, and, in the hypothetical that Justice
Sotomayor was asking, the court's ordinary cause and
prejudice standards would accommodate for that. There
would be no inequity for the court -- for Martinez to do
anything.
JUSTICE BREYER: What happens -- imagine we
have a State supreme court, and it says, okay, you could
raise this claim on appeal, we don't advise it, we
think -- it's so much easier to do it in State habeas.
Please do it in State habeas. It's not absolutely
binding, but do it. Okay? That's what they are saying.
Now, he raises nine of his ten ineffective
assistance of counsel claims in State habeas. And the
State habeas court says, no, you are out on all nine,
but he never raised the tenth.
Now, we are in Federal court, and the
prisoner says -- you know, that tenth claim is fabulous.
And the judge says, it is substantial. And he says, you
know why it wasn't raised before? Because my counsel
was incompetent on State habeas, and they didn't raise
it on appeal because that's just how people normally do
things in Texas, they don't raise it on appeal. They
wait until State habeas.
Has that person had a full and fair
opportunity to raise this tenth claim in the State
court?
MR. OLDHAM: Well, if the -- if the Court by
hypothesis is telling the Bar not to bring claims under
any set of circumstances on direct appeal, I think
that --
JUSTICE BREYER: They are not saying never.
They are just saying it works so much better. What they
say is we appoint State habeas counsel at the same time,
it's easier to develop it. Please. We won't say never.
We'll just say hardly ever.
Now, what's -- what is the -- what is your
view about whether that person has had a full and fair
opportunity to develop his tenth ineffective assistance
claim in the State courts.
MR. OLDHAM: Justice Breyer, Martinez should
not apply, even to that hypothetical.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not even thinking about
Martinez at the moment because I don't want to get into
whether it is an extension or just an elaboration or
just a situation covered, but they didn't think of it or
just a lot of other things.
I just want to know, given Martinez, what do
you think?
MR. OLDHAM: I'm not sure how to answer the
full and fair opportunity question because that --
that's certainly not the standard that we are advocating
here.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the standard you
are advocating?
MR. OLDHAM: We believe that Martinez
applies where it said that it applies, and that is where
a State makes a deliberate choice to disallow all claims
on direct appeal. We understand the necessity to having
a Martinez clause to apply to an eventual default.
JUSTICE BREYER: But if, in fact, they say,
yes, there is a route, never used, but once, filled with
minefields, very hard when compared with the other one,
there you say, it isn't Martinez, it is a totally -- it
is a new thing because Martinez, after all, had no
rationale.
MR. OLDHAM: Your Honor, I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm being sarcastic there,
but I don't mean to be. I mean, you see what I'm trying
to get to?
JUSTICE SCALIA: It was the nose of the
camel, which is what Martinez was -- which is what the
dissent said, actually.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, the dissent said that.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: This is -- this is very
amusing in a capital case.
Let me ask you this question: Is there
anything in the State Bar brief that substantially helps
your position? I'm -- I'm very interested in the State
Bar brief. It's a little hard for me to parse. It did
say there is a conflict of interest in -- between the
habeas counsel and the -- and the counsel on direct.
And it also -- it also indicates that the
habeas counsel has to file the application in the
convicting court not later than 180 days after -- or not
later than 45 days after the State's original brief,
which seems to help the Petitioner here because the
original brief in -- in the direct appeal proceeding is
deemed important for the habeas counsel.
MR. OLDHAM: Justice Kennedy, I don't think
there is anything in the State Bar brief that helps
either side in this sense because the State Bar agrees
that there were no relevant guidelines of any kind at
the time of any of the proceedings in this case.
The only guideline that any Bar association
had promulgated at the time of the direct appeal
proceeding or State habeas proceeding in this case was
the 1989 American Bar Association guideline, 11.9.2,
which specifically told the direct appeal lawyer in this
case to raise every colorable claim he could, regardless
of any State procedures to the contrary.
And, if he had raised a substantial Wiggins
claim or if he had even tried his best to raise a
Wiggins claim that could be -- could be amplified and
further developed on State habeas, we wouldn't be
standing here today because it would have been properly
exhausted and adjudicated on the merits in State court.
So I don't think that the Bar association
really has anything one way to say or the other, which
is maybe why it filed on behalf of neither party.
But to return to Justice Breyer's question,
I don't think that what -- what we're talking about is
to come up with anything new. I think what we're
talking about in this outside-of-Martinez world is
actually very old. We are just talking about the
Carrier rule, the normal rule that applies to cause and
prejudice for all defaults in States across the country.
And I think that the best way to understand
it is to imagine, in the very hypothetical that you
offered, where there is just one person who could get
through, that person would have a constitutional claim
in the State of -- I'm sorry, the other 900 or however
many there were, those people would have constitutional
claims in the State of Texas for the deprivation of a
meaningful opportunity to press their claims on direct
appeal.
And as from the Federal -- and that would
serve as cause, if the State courts denied it, that
would serve as cause to overcome a default in Federal
court and to get an adjudication of that claim.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Oldham, I had thought
that Martinez was really an equitable rule. It was an
equitable rule about giving people an opportunity to
raise a trial ineffectiveness claim.
And if it's true that, although Texas has a
technical possibility of doing that outside of
collateral review, but, in fact, that the lawyers are
told not to use that route, that the lawyers don't use
that route, that, if they do use that route, the
likelihood is that they will be thrown out for using
that route, the question is why that -- the formal
availability of a mechanism that nobody uses and that
everybody is told not to use should matter with respect
to the application of an equitable rule like Martinez?
MR. OLDHAM: Justice Kagan, there is no work
for an equitable rule in Martinez to do if you can get
there another way. And it's not just that you can raise
it on direct appeal, it's also that, if your direct
appeal lawyer doesn't do it, you can, under certain
circumstances, establish cause against your direct
appeal -- direct appeal lawyer to overcome an ensuing
default.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Has there ever been such
a case, any case in which a direct appeal counsel has
been found ineffective for failing to present a Wiggins
claim?
MR. OLDHAM: I'm not sure about specifically
Wiggins claims, but, yes, it is, in fact, established in
the leading treatise on Texas practice cited by both
sides that is ineffective assistance of appellate
counsel to fail to develop the record to allow any claim
to be adjudicated on direct appeal.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I asked, if there was
any decisions that said, you should have raised it on
appeal, appeals counsel didn't rely on the advice of the
Texas Court of Criminal Appeals, and, therefore, because
counsel followed the advice of Texas Court of Criminal
Appeals, she was ineffective?
MR. OLDHAM: No, Justice -- Justice
Ginsburg, I am not aware of any particular case on
Wiggins in particular. But -- but the claims against
appellate ineffectiveness for failure to raise a claim
on direct appeal are -- are raised and adjudicated on
the merits all the time in Texas courts.
And there are specific ones that say that
ineffective assistance of appellate counsel to fail to
develop the record using the procedures which the State
has allowed through the new trial window.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the -- the Texas
Court of Criminal Appeals, in addition to saying, as a
general rule, bring it up on -- on collateral review,
said -- and there's a reason. The reason why is the
undeveloped record on direct appeal would be
insufficient to establish claims that must be supported
by extra-record evidence.
So that seems to be an expectation that
extra-record evidence will be developed on collateral
review, not direct appeal.
MR. OLDHAM: No, Justice Ginsburg, I think
it's an expectation that the extra-record evidence will
be developed, either through the new trial proceeding,
through a factual proffer following it, or through a
stay and abatement procedure, to make sure that, when
the claim actually gets to the court -- the court of
appeals, that it has a record upon which to adjudicate
the claim.
That's all that -- and, to the extent that
the appellate lawyer fails to do that, that can
constitute cause under the ordinary rules of cause and
prejudice without creating another Martinez exception,
which we would submit is going to be highly, highly
unworkable, given that the court is going to have to
determine when is a little bit enough and when is not
enough sufficient for Martinez.
JUSTICE ALITO: The Respondent says that the
Kansas and the Michigan procedures are sufficient to
take the case -- to take the States outside of Martinez.
You say your stay and abate proceeding is the same,
essentially, as those procedures.
His response is that Texas has used this
remedy in only one situation, and that is when a
defendant is deprived of counsel during the new trial
window and suffers prejudice from the deprivation.
Now, is that correct.
MR. OLDHAM: It's when the counsel -- when
the prisoner has suffered a deprivation of the
opportunity to develop the record in the new trial
window. So, in the Cooks case, for example, that was --
there was only a lawyer for 10 of the 30 days, and
this -- the court said the new trial window is a
critical stage for the development of a particular
record for raising a Wiggins-style claim on direct
appeal, and because that is so --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish your
sentence.
MR. OLDHAM: Thank you.
And because that is so, where there has been
a deprivation of counsel in that circumstance that
prohibits the development of that meaningful record, we
will allow you to go back, assuming you can show
prejudice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Wolf, you have seven minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WARREN A. WOLF
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. WOLF: I want to be very clear about
this abatement issue. The abatement issue, as
Justice Alito just said, is only available -- as
referred in our brief on page 6, is only available when
there is a denial of the constitutional right to an
attorney.
And those situations is when there's a delay
in appointing the direct appeal attorney after the
trial. So, during the 30-day window to file the motion
for new trial, that time limitation is -- is -- that
clock is running, and, if there's no attorney appointed,
the constitutional violation is considered a critical
stage of the trial.
And since there's -- if there's no attorney
appointed during those 30 days, that is the only time,
as Justice Kennedy is correct in saying, that that is
the time that the abatement procedure is permitted.
That is the only time.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So you are suggesting that
if -- if an attorney is appointed within a few days or
within a week, as happened here, that, in that case,
there would not be that opportunity, it would be the
30 days, that's it, stop?
MR. WOLF: And when that new -- that's
correct. And, if a new attorney is appointed because
there was no attorney appointed, that new attorney, he,
himself, also has only 30 days. The clock starts --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But what about -- what
about the 75-day --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I understood that, if the
30-day rule had been complied with, within the 75 days,
you can ask the appellate court to please remand because
there is some additional evidence to be --
MR. WOLF: That's not true.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- to be determined.
MR. WOLF: That is not a correct statement
of the law, and -- and I would refer the Court to our
briefs, to the -- to the time that the -- the
authorities that we cite and also the amicus brief from
the State Bar of Texas.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what are --
what are these investigators, experts, they're available
to the new appellate counsel, what -- what are they
supposed to be doing?
MR. WOLF: To the direct appeal attorney?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, the direct
appeal attorney. You say -- basically, you're saying
there's no way they can do anything within these time
limits, and, yet, the State procedure provides for
investigators and experts. It seems to me it would be
odd for them to provide for people and to pay for people
who can't do anything.
MR. WOLF: Well, they don't -- to do a
Wiggins claim -- to do -- they're doing things that
would -- investigates things that came out of the
record because that's what is relegated to the direct
appeal. The habeas attorney has more money available
and has more time available to do the things, and it
becomes a function of time as well.
But I want to direct the Court's attention
also to the -- to the statement in Sprouse. And -- and
the statement --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The statement?
MR. WOLF: In the case of Sprouse, in our --
where am I?
It's page 20 -- 20 of our reply brief, that
the position in Sprouse is that there would be no
constitutional defect if appellate counsel didn't have
time or the record to raise the ineffective assistance
claim, and that's because the habeas proceeding is
available to direct -- to develop the claim and is the
proper place to do so. And that's the State's brief.
It's on page 20 of our reply brief.
The other thing that I wanted to -- to bring
to the Court's attention is that the Respondent cites a
couple of cases that are aberrant -- they're
aberrations, and they really don't -- shouldn't -- since
this Court has -- has brought out a sensible rule in
Martinez and this Court has said this Court's rule
sensibly speak to the ordinary case, not -- not the
aberrational. And that's exactly what we have here.
The last thing that I wanted to say is -- is
that the direct appeal, if -- if -- there's a choice
here that the State has systemically developed a system
that has caused -- that has directed attorneys on appeal
that the habeas attorney does the extra-record claims,
the Wiggins-type claims, and that the -- the claims that
are raised on the record go to the direct appeal
attorney.
That is the system that the State has
developed. Those are the rules that govern this system
that have been promulgated by the court of criminal
appeals and the Supreme Court, and that's the system --
the scheme that we are under.
And because --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the position
of the State that says Martinez is relatively new, if
there is an extension of Martinez to cover this case,
then at least give the Texas courts the first crack at
deciding whether there was ineffective assistance of
counsel, instead of having that done in the Federal
court?
MR. WOLF: We're just looking for the --
because of the procedural default scenario that we find
ourselves in, we tried to do that.
And -- and because 11.071 also has -- when
they -- when that was promulgated in 1995 in order to
expedite these claims, it provided three things: One, a
new attorney; two, the money to fund those claims; and,
three, an abuse of the writ, which is Section 5a, which
is what we met in -- in our case.
The Texas scheme, because of that abuse of
the writ, proceeds -- causes procedural default, and
that puts us in this quandary, where a person like
Mr. Trevino is unable to get relief because he has an
ineffective trial lawyer. And, now, he is -- that
ineffective trial lawyer -- his ineffectiveness is being
insulated by the ineffectiveness of his -- of his habeas
lawyer.
And that's not what should happen. It's --
it's just not equitable, it's not fair. And
Mr. Trevino, someone in his situation, should have a
right to complain about the ineffectiveness of his trial
lawyer.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:03 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
27:20 advocating 42:5 14:6,9,15 15:2 33:24 43:14 14:12 16:16,19
48:13 42:8 15:4 16:15,23 45:24 17:17 21:16
47:23 affect 7:25 19:16,21 20:5 7:24 8:15 24:16,25 25:13
50:7 affidavit 15:12 21:5,17 22:7 13:18 14:3 30:17 34:13
afforded 37:14 29:7 31:21 apply 8:13 12:12 53:16
agrees 34:8 33:21 34:5,14 33:12 38:5,11 43:25 44:3,13
39:22,23 alike 25:22 35:1 37:10,12 42:13 24:2
36:20 9:1,9,21 10:6 40:12,25 41:1 41:12 assuming 49:10
54:19 14:17 16:7,13 43:18 44:1,4 6:12,13,16 attention 52:1
49:10 53:1,4 appointing 11:20,21 12:19
amicus 14:20 29:2,4,5 30:2,2 25:5 50:1,4,10,15
32:21 33:13,18 47:10,25 53:9 argued 3:23 attorneys 35:2
22:24 ANDREW 1:20 1:17 argument 1:15 authored 14:20
47:25 2:6 20:21 appears 28:11 2:2,5,8 3:6 authorities 51:5
44:12 14:7 32:5 42:3 appellate 3:14 Arizona 8:13 34:16
47:3 answered 6:21 5:15,23 6:2 Armstrong 36:5 automatically
anytime 35:25 16:2,17 22:1,7 asked 8:11 availability
49:18,19 boils 39:20 43:6 channeled 34:20 47:2,24 48:1
bottom 11:4 CARLOS 1:3 channeling 13:2 49:2 51:20
box 26:18,25 Carrier 44:21 channelled 16:6 52:11,12
46:25 29:3,9,15,20 11:17,18,22,23 7:13 14:3 6:7,8,12,17 7:1
32:8,12 16:18 18:19 5:14,22,25 14:4,12 17:11
14:22 42:21 43:3 27:16 29:17,20 25:9 27:23 34:19 35:3
29:24 Breyer's 44:16 31:10,10 32:8 49:4,12 50:20 37:16 40:2,17
37:20 brief 14:21,25 32:14,15 33:10 51:7,12 54:16 41:7 42:11
16:8 19:25 33:24 35:13 choice 3:19 8:5 45:4,5 46:13
28:24 33:7,15 36:17,19 37:17 52:24 53:3,24,25
49:19 51:5 46:9,9,25 chose 38:22 24:23 39:5
34:8 52:7,13,14 48:12,23 50:11 circuit 24:20,21 49:16
43:8,10 briefing 27:13 52:5,21 53:14 32:16 clearly 39:18
27:14 54:2,17,18 circumstance client 11:23,24
51:6 briefs 19:24 cases 6:14 8:18 38:11 49:8 17:13 25:14
bring 4:6,7,16 16:14,23 22:7 41:8 46:5 50:17
21:10 34:25 35:3 28:6 36:18 cited 24:19 33:6 collateral 4:5,7
41:7 47:11 52:17 33:14 36:16,17 4:13,23 7:22
3:7 brings 36:1 8:22 cites 52:16 11:10 13:16
44:15 brought 4:23 category 8:23 claim 3:15 5:3,4 14:12 21:18
26:13 34:14,19 15:19 16:10 5:12,15 7:14 32:24 34:4,5
38:11 36:5 37:23 37:18 40:6 10:25 13:5 37:25 38:4
52:19 44:21 45:8,9 14:6 15:11,24 39:8 45:17
caused 53:1 23:3,23 25:4,5 colleagues 8:11
CORRECTI... 29:2,3,4,5 30:250:22 20:13 28:20
3:24 4:1 6:2,11 37:13,19 40:8 dear 29:25 46:16 47:7
13:11 14:4,12 41:5,6 43:15 decide 38:4 developed 6:4,5
18:4 20:3,5,16,19 47:24,24 48:7 decision 32:16 52:25 53:7
22:10,11,15,22 51:3 52:19,20 46:19 11:3 18:24
31:15 32:20,23 45:8 47:4 default 21:8 devised 9:8
34:5,13 37:23 court's 5:23 45:9 46:7 different 15:19
40:17,23 41:12 52:1,16,20 defaults 44:22 4:16 6:13 7:5,9
46:9,16,20,22 covered 41:24 defendant 3:11 8:19 9:3,5,11
54:16 23:4 defense 20:13 14:14 15:1
37:11,14 counsel's 21:23 criminal 1:7 deficient 21:24 19:14,16 20:5
49:20 27:22 3:10 4:4 11:9 delay 49:22 21:5,17 22:6
52:9 counterintuitive 21:14 24:14,22deliberate 42:11 22:15,22 23:18
country 5:19 37:13 46:21,22denied 26:25 27:17 29:5
couple 52:17 D deprivation 39:4 41:8
30:9 11:16 16:18,18 11:14,16 18:20 Deputy 1:20 49:2,23 51:11
48:23 19:4,11 20:24 19:5,13 25:23 described 31:19 51:12,22 52:1
16:11,20 23:21 24:3,14 27:24 28:2,2 8:22 directed 9:3
26:16 24:22 25:12,17 29:13 36:2 determine 48:8 30:4 53:1
48:19 26:7 27:2,5,13 43:15,16 48:24 determined 51:1 DIRECTOR 1:6
equitable 45:12 expand 5:2,4,11 fair 10:24 12:6 formulate 7:18
54:12 11:15 14:22 31:7,20 38:13 20:12
especially 5:12 expansion 14:19 fairly 30:14 forth 25:18 26:1
13:4 2:6,9 expedite 6:7 favor 7:19 24:21 full 7:8 10:24
essentially 13:15 19:20 53:24 fear 14:1 12:6 30:15,25
establish 46:5 experts 15:3 February 1:12 38:13,23 41:3
established 51:16 31:3 40:20 function 51:25
19:20 19:10 41:23 53:14 23:20 26:4
eventual 42:13 extent 22:4 43:14 49:24 G
extra 5:13 20:10 44:15 general 1:20
evidentiary 5:16 extra-record-... find 17:24 33:2 36:22,23
29:1 40:4 facially 23:23 12:2 21:4,22 17:14 18:7
27:1 examination fact 20:14 39:23 26:18 33:7 24:20 32:18
36:21 42:14 45:17 39:17 53:15 33:20 34:3,23
34:21 examining facts 19:25 flip 15:19 47:9,19 53:12
47:21 13:22 21:25 37:8 focuses 13:4 Ginsburg's 6:21
exception 48:5 27:1,4 28:18 following 16:15 give 7:19 8:11
exhausted 26:22 fail 46:16 47:6 forget 38:8 30:22 33:3,18
35:23 40:13,14,17,18 identical 23:13 23:24 27:22 jurisdictions
48:7 40:24 41:2,12 28:4 45:14 47:2 5:19
8:2,3 9:5 54:9 imagine 40:10 26:15,21 32:19 6:21 7:17 8:10
25:12 handle 6:12 44:24 initially 29:13 8:20,25 9:1,9
30:1 happen 18:20 impediments inquiry 23:15 9:21 10:6,10
35:5,18 29:21 54:11 7:5,11 INSTITUTIO... 10:15,23 11:8
37:20 happened 24:10 important 24:4 1:8 12:3,4,11,14
49:10 29:18 30:6 43:19 instructions 12:22 13:11,25
36:5,6 38:6 imposed 16:1 22:3 14:10,17,24
17:19 40:10 impracticable 47:14 17:4,14 18:7
19:11 hard 42:16 8:17,20 10:13 insulated 54:9 19:3,23 20:19
33:3 38:4 43:10 14:5,14 15:22 intend 34:18 20:23 21:13,19
hear 3:3 11:17 impression interest 12:22 22:5,13 23:6
helps 20:7,8 indefinite 25:25 investigation 29:12,15,20,23
Honor 24:7 ineffective 3:12 51:8,16 36:7,25 37:5
31:6 32:2 33:5 14:4,11 16:16 involving 24:16 38:21 39:7,11
38:10 17:17,19 21:16 issue 3:12 8:14 40:10 41:10,19
7:14,15 hypothetical 25:13 31:8,9 43:5,20 44:16
12:20 6:24 7:2 38:20 34:13 37:22 J 45:11,25 46:8
14:4,9 39:16 40:5 39:12 40:16 Joe 28:10 46:18,24,24
19:22 41:20 44:24 41:17 46:10,15 judge 28:17 30:6 47:9,19 48:10
21:11 46:23 47:6 31:3 40:22 49:4,12,18
30:7 I 52:10 53:16 judgment 6:19 50:6,9,18,20
31:3 IAC 7:14 16:5 54:7,8 jurisdiction 50:20,21 51:1
34:6 ineffectiveness 3:21 5:7,18 51:7,12 52:4
Ibarra 24:22 10:4 13:8 21:1 11:16 27:3 53:12 54:16
34:22 legislature 42:1,9,13,17 51:23 53:25 15:15 16:16
34:15 42:18,25 45:12 month 33:25 19:4,5,21 20:3
37:5 let's 6:23 24:2 45:24 46:1 months 3:20,20 20:5 22:10
50:9 liberal 18:4 48:5,9,12 6:18 11:18 23:25 26:7,25
23:14,17 limit 19:13 Mata 21:20 25:16,16 28:11 29:10,13 31:8
48:11 limitation 9:6 material 24:4 28:11 29:24 34:16 35:3,13
limitations 4:17 28:4 motion 3:22 5:5 39:20 42:18
23:6,11 11:14 matter 1:14 4:10 11:15 15:10,15 44:18 47:8,21
24:9 limited 32:21 4:23 10:25 16:16 19:5 48:17,22,25
43:5 limits 9:12 10:8 26:8 45:23 23:20 26:25 49:25 50:14,15
50:6,18 10:12 51:15 54:19 27:3,19 28:3 50:16 51:9
51:1 line 4:21 11:4 matters 28:18 29:11,13 35:3 53:13,25
list 17:10 31:21 35:13 49:24 newly 23:17
11:22 long 18:11,13 meaningful 7:22 move 37:17 nine 40:16,18
longer 17:9 27:2 45:5 49:9 movement noncapital
25:13 look 19:18 meaningfulness 14:11 24:13 25:22
40:21 looked 19:25 37:15 39:4 26:12
means 7:20 N non-death 12:20
42:1
43:2,4 luck 31:24 28:5 24:5 25:14 nose 42:24
51:3 M merits 36:12 needs 25:2 39:3
manifestly 13:1 54:2 neurological obtain 15:9
31:8,8 manifests 13:1 method 34:25 36:21 obvious 13:1
33:19 Martinez 3:17 Michigan 16:9 never 5:23 18:18 obviously 28:2
44:4 4:8,21 7:10,21 17:15 48:11 23:2 24:9 odd 51:17
48:3,24 8:15,23 13:18 mind 7:4 27:16 32:10,12 offered 21:2
13:18,23 14:3 minefields 42:16 40:19 41:10,13 44:25
35:9 21:12 23:15 missed 12:9 nevertheless 29:25 38:10
37:2,18 38:2,5 mitigating 19:8 8:15 okay 5:25 9:18
28:11 oral 1:14 2:2,5 permits 14:19 preferred 4:5,11 9:23 21:5,6,11
31:24 3:6 20:21 14:21 11:10 24:24 28:7 30:22
38:12 order 5:2,4,11 permitted 50:7 25:3 34:25 34:5 43:18
15:9,25 16:3 person 11:24 prejudice 21:7 44:2,2 47:21
44:20 ordinary 40:6 44:25 45:1 40:7 44:22 proceedings
20:20,21 original 43:16 petition 24:24 prepare 15:25 proceeds 54:4
21:19 43:18 petitioner 1:4,19 prepared 6:18 produce 39:24
23:11 outcome 14:1 2:4,10 3:7 21:2 present 3:15 produced 39:25
25:2,7 outside 16:10 21:9 23:14 5:11 17:17 production
26:2,9 17:16 45:16 34:9 36:24 19:1 30:16 27:15
48:12 38:23 43:17 46:10 proffer 27:2,4
outside-of-Ma... 49:15 presented 22:2 47:22
29:1,8 44:19 Petitioner's 22:4 38:14 profile 33:3
overcome 45:9 22:20 press 45:5 prohibit 8:14
31:6 32:2 46:6 petitions 24:23 prevent 21:21 prohibitive
33:5,23 phase 24:17 prevents 18:1 15:24
35:12 P place 31:21 prior 27:8 prohibits 49:9
36:4,14 P 3:1 52:13 prison 18:10 promulgated
37:3,7 page 2:2 14:25 plausible 23:23 prisoner 31:13 44:1 53:8,23
49:19 52:7,14 30:10 40:21 48:21 prong 22:25
pages 24:19 please 3:9 20:23 prisoners 25:21 proof 36:9
41:6,19 paid 15:4 24:5 25:6 26:12 28:6 proper 23:4
pardon 34:9 28:18 29:5 probably 16:25 35:5,14 52:13
45:11,25 parse 43:10 30:3 40:14 problem 15:21 properly 34:13
47:19 part 13:8 16:4 41:13 50:23 17:6 18:16 44:11
49:6 18:15 21:22 plus 13:17 39:21 28:14 31:17,18 proposing 37:21
particularly 24:8 27:14,19 7:11 53:20 protection 37:14
parties 32:6 pointing 22:5 procedurally proven 21:24
21:20 passed 27:11 9:16 10:4 procedure 3:14 25:18 51:17
7:8,20 penalty 6:8 17:1 19:1 34:6 16:2,9,9,14 53:24
12:7 12:21,25 43:9 52:8 23:12,16 28:4 provides 22:6
30:16 Pennsylvania 53:12 30:24 31:20 23:14 51:15
37:6,7,9 32:9 possibility 12:21 32:1 47:23 provision 5:21
people 6:1 26:23 45:16 50:7 51:15 33:14
41:4,17 30:23 40:25 practical 36:22 procedures psychological
45:5,13 45:3,13 51:17 practically 37:9 20:25 21:2 18:18,19 19:10
50:12 51:17 practice 46:14 32:6 44:6 47:7 psychologist
period 5:21 23:8 prefer 4:22 6:25 proceeding 7:22 24:17
realize 4:16 5:18 33:17 result 32:9 16:1 17:12
10:3 30:6 relatively 53:13 44:16
12:12 14:11,18 15:8 relevant 33:12 7:21 11:11 San 1:18
14:7 19:6 22:20 43:23 13:16 14:12 sarcastic 42:21
32:4,5 47:12,12 relief 54:6 19:17 21:18 satisfy 23:15
39:19 reasonableness rely 46:20 32:24 35:6,11 saying 4:10,24
43:7 21:23 remaining 49:13 35:19 37:25 4:25 22:19
45:21 REBUTTAL remand 16:18 38:4 39:8 28:16,24 29:16
12:7 6:18 7:8,20 8:3 repercussions 40:4 49:20 19:6 22:16,20
17:25 9:4 11:3,15,17 17:9 54:14 23:2 26:6
22:14 12:2 14:20,22 reply 33:7 52:7 ROBERTS 3:3 28:17 34:8
23:3 15:2,9 16:4 52:14 5:8,14,22,25 36:2 37:24
34:6 18:5,16,22,23 represented 14:24 15:7 40:11,18,21,22
39:4 19:17 20:10,14 9:15,25 16:24 19:3 20:19 40:22 48:10
40:12 21:21 22:1,8 require 8:3,21 25:9 27:23 53:13
41:1,4 22:12 23:4,7,8 9:2,5 49:4,12 50:20 Scalia 39:18
45:14 24:5 25:4,11 required 18:14 51:7,12 54:16 40:5 42:24
47:2 25:15,25 27:21 requires 10:12 Rosales 36:17 scenario 53:20
35:21,25 36:3 11:2 25:18 roughly 23:22 schedule 27:14
36:16,17 37:24 46:16 reserve 20:17 42:15 45:18,19 10:17,17 11:5
39:7,16 47:7,13,25 resolved 32:10 45:19,21 14:19 53:10
44:7 48:22 49:2,9 respect 45:23 rule 3:11 4:19 54:3
47:3 51:22 52:10 respects 33:7 7:18,23 11:13 school 18:10
53:4 Respondent 14:2,21 15:1 36:20
18:10,15,21 34:9 48:10 25:17 26:6 26:24,24 33:11
20:25 6:12 13:5 response 35:4 44:21,21 45:12 20:10 54:1
refer 29:17 51:3 35:17,21 48:15 45:13,24 46:1 see 7:23 12:2
referring 13:3 19:15 52:19,20 42:22
43:22 36:9 28:6,24 29:22 33:14 4:12 7:13
22:19 26:17,20 27:6 39:12 40:11,13 substantially T
27:10 29:12 40:14,17,18,24 43:8 T 2:1,1
41:8 40:6 43:21,22 44:2 suffers 48:18 48:12,12
sovereign 3:16 45:2,4,8 47:7 35:25 36:13 takes 5:12 13:10
44:4 46:12 51:2 52:2,3,4 suggesting 31:10 44:17,19
Sprouse 3:24 7:23 8:1,1,3,4 50:9 teachers 36:20
50:3 17:21,22 18:3 15:2 22:7 24:5 39:22
standards 21:7 48:12 Suppose 4:2 ten 40:16
standard's 43:16 52:13 28:12 30:13 41:4,17
11:5 17:24 44:11 34:18 9:7 21:14 22:25
18:17 stands 37:22 stay 23:20 25:25 40:11 53:9 testify 36:20
41:24 start 18:24 26:3 27:20 sure 9:19 12:3 Texas 1:6,18,21
54:13 27:18 28:3 47:23 13:7 40:2 42:3 3:10,13,17 4:4
34:23 stop 50:13 surely 19:3,4 5:20 6:1,4,25
7:3,6,9,19 8:13 21:22 22:25 10:7,18 12:19 11:9 12:18
24:10 time 6:17 9:11 35:4,13,23 45:18,19,23 We'll 41:14
25:21 10:8,12,20 37:1,3,14 uses 45:22 we're 13:14,21
29:16 13:10 15:16,22 45:14 47:8,21 usual 35:16,21 31:10 38:3
32:1 15:23,24,25 48:17,22,25 usually 21:21 44:17,18 53:19
34:2,3,15 16:1,8 18:7,11 49:24,25 50:3 Utah 14:20 we've 13:23
36:10 18:24 19:9 54:7,8,14 33:14
38:14,22 20:18 23:8 tried 32:8 44:8 V Wiggins 5:2,12
45:4,15 33:7 35:18 53:21 v 1:5 3:4 21:20 10:12,25 15:24
39:17 41:12 true 33:20 45:15 24:18 24:16 35:25
48:15 43:24 44:1 50:25 vast 8:18,20 36:1,6,18 44:7
53:15 47:4 49:25 try 16:7 35:3 14:5 44:9 46:10,13
50:5,7,8 51:4 trying 36:11 vehicle 24:24 47:1 51:20
52:10 turn 37:10 39:3 venue 35:5 49:2
54:16 told 35:10,14 32:3 33:7 50:2 15:14 16:3
52:15,23 45:18,23 type 6:7 11:7 vs 29:22,23 37:15 47:8
30:18 track 10:18 24:16 W 49:24
41:1,25 transcript 3:19 typical 35:4 wait 4:18 9:22 witness 18:23,24
4:17 23:9 24:1 12:1 41:2 witnesses 19:10
27:7,9,15,17 U waits 24:1 Wolf 1:18 2:3,9
28:13 31:9 understand 9:9 25:23 27:5 5:10,17,24 6:3
33:11 treatise 46:14 9:20 10:4 38:14 41:22 7:12,25 8:17
35:15 Trevino 1:3 3:4 11:24 12:5 42:1 49:16 8:24 9:1,19
39:5 18:17 54:6,13 16:14 25:10 52:1 10:2,9,14,16
40:1,4 Trevino's 5:3 28:9 42:12 wanted 52:15,23 11:4,12 12:9
41:8,24 trial 3:21,21,22 44:23 WARREN 1:18 12:13,17 13:24
43:20 4:1 5:5,9 9:15 understanding 2:3,9 3:6 49:14 14:2,17 15:6,8
9:17,25 10:3 6:16 Washington 15:20,23 16:12
11:15,19 12:1 understood 1:11 16:21 17:3,6
45:11 22:8,11,15,23 United 1:1,15 way 4:6,11 7:1 51:11,19 52:5
54:1 25:15,25 26:7 unwarranted 23:16 26:9 words 4:25 37:5
3
14:17 29:13 36:2
48:24 50:5,13
25:1 36:1 49:24
33:7 50:22
32 24:19
24:19
28:2
3:20
48 13:23
5a 54:1
50 7:23 8:1
28:10 6
3:20 6 25:16 49:19
48:24
1:4 3:4 7
6:9 53:22 7 3:20 6:18
44:3 11:18 23:9
1:16 3:2 24:1 25:16
20:10 75 5:5,6,17
54:18 11:16 26:8
14:25 27:10,24 28:2
43:15 50:22
44:3 75-day 5:21
6:5 53:23 10:22 16:3
33:23 26:6 50:19
9
2:7 52:7,7,14 9 28:11,11
1:12 900 45:2
15:1
14:21
11:13
1:12
