IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
RADLAX GATEWAY HOTEL, LLC, ET AL.,:
Petitioners : No. 11-166
v. :
AMALGAMATED BANK :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, April 23, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DAVID M. NEFF, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf of
Petitioners.
DEANNE E. MAYNARD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
SARAH E. HARRINGTON, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DAVID M. NEFF, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DEANNE E. MAYNARD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SARAH E. HARRINGTON, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae, 46
supporting Respondent
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID M. NEFF, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 11-166, RadLAX Gateway
Hotel v. Amalgamated Bank.
Mr. Neff.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID M. NEFF
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. NEFF: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The question presented in this case is
whether a secured creditor must be allowed to credit bid
when its collateral is being sold under a Chapter 11
plan. The relevant section of the Bankruptcy Code
plainly says no.
Section 1129(b)(2)(A) provides that a
Chapter 11 plan must be fair and equitable to a secured
creditor that objects to it.
It then provides three alternatives that the
debtor can pursue to satisfy that test. Any one of
these three alternatives can be used when assets are
being sold, but only one of them requires the right to
credit bid.
Under subsection (i), the plan must allow
the creditor to retain its lien and receive payments
over time, with the present value equal to the value of
its collateral.
Under subsection (ii), the plan must allow
the creditor to credit bid when its asset is being sold
free of its lien.
But under subsection (iii), the plan must
provide the creditor with the indubitable equivalent of
its secured claim.
The debtors have chosen to pursue a plan --
a plan sale without credit bidding under subsection
(iii).
The plain language of the statute permits
that result.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But how does one
determine what is the indubitable equivalent of the
creditor's claim?
MR. NEFF: The indubitable equivalent will
be determined at the time of plan confirmation, in our
case, after the sale has been conducted, although not
yet approved by the court. So the court will have --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The -- the sale --
something -- the sale can't go on without the court's
approval. I mean, the -- the auction has to have the
court's approval, right?
MR. NEFF: Well, here's what happens
typically: The debtor files a motion, as we did in this
case, to approve bid procedures. The court then
determines whether those bid procedures are appropriate
for the sale.
The sale is then conducted. Then the debtor
goes to plan confirmation; and, at the plan confirmation
hearing, aside from establishing the 16 requirements of
Section 1129 for a plan to be confirmed, the debtor also
seeks to confirm the results of the sale.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so what qualifies as
indubitably equivalent?
MR. NEFF: The indubitable equivalent must
be an amount that is at least equal to the amount of the
secured claim. In essence, it's going to be determined
by what the assets sold for, provided that the sale has
generated the best possible price for the asset.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose the -- suppose
the creditor thinks that the -- the sale was --
undervalued the assets, that it -- it wasn't the
equivalent?
MR. NEFF: The creditor has an opportunity,
at the plan confirmation hearing, to raise any issue
with regard to the sale process, with regard to the
auction that occurred -- has the opportunity to raise any
other issue that may bear on the price that is received
at the sale that occurs.
For instance, it could say, well, they
conducted this auction, but I have an appraisal here
that says the property is worth much more. So this
can't possibly be -- my --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, isn't the -- isn't the
issue who is going to decide whether something is really
the indubitable equivalent? Is it going to be the
judge, which is what you would like? Or is it going to
be determined through a particular bidding procedure --
MR. NEFF: Well, it's --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- namely, where there can
be credit bidding, which is what the -- which is what
the Respondent would like.
MR. NEFF: It's going to be the judge, after
reviewing what happens at the sale. The problem with
allowing a creditor the right to credit bid under all
circumstances is, in a case like ours, we don't believe
we will ever get to an auction because no one else will
show up.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if the Respondent
thought that what the judge would determine would
indubitably provide the indubitable equivalent, then
there wouldn't be an issue here, right?
The reason why there's an issue is because
they don't think that what the judge will decide will
indubitably provide the indubitable equivalent.
MR. NEFF: In this particular instance, I
would suggest that the -- the creditor simply does not
want the asset sold. It would rather take the asset
back and hold it for some time period. So it's not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, isn't that --
isn't that pretty much what he bargained for when he
insisted upon security before giving the loan?
MR. NEFF: Well, what they bargained for was
that the asset be liquidated and all of the proceeds
applied to their loan. And that's exactly what we
propose to do under our sale procedure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you're
depriving the secured creditor of the opportunity to
hold on to the asset because he thinks it is, for
perhaps a short period, unreasonably devalued. Right?
MR. NEFF: Well, he -- he is denied that
right under subsection (i), which is our traditional
reorganization -- internal reorganization provision of
Section 1129(b)(2)(A).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did -- did I cut off
your answer to Justice Alito?
MR. NEFF: Well, with regard to the
indubitable equivalence, clearly, the judge is going to
make that determination. But that's no different than
the judge making a determination under subsection (i) as
to what the fair market value of the collateral is for
purposes of determining the note that the creditor is
going to receive and be paid off over time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Could the -- could the
judge say, when the proposal is made to him, the only
way I can be sure that it is the indubitable equivalent
is to have the sale open to credit bidding, which is
what we always do? Can the judge say that?
MR. NEFF: If there is testimony provided to
the judge that that is the way that will maximize the
sale proceeds and that, in fact, you can't get
indubitable equivalence unless you allow credit bidding,
it would seem to me, under that circumstance, the judge
would have that discretion.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, you're, you're --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It makes no sense to me
what you are saying because, under all circumstances,
the credit bid, unless the property is valued higher
than the credit bid amount, but then another bidder
could do -- could make -- could enter that bid.
MR. NEFF: Well, the problem is when --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The maximum value always
has to be the value of the credit.
MR. NEFF: Well, I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If the -- if the -- if
the creditor is willing to put it at risk that way.
MR. NEFF: Your Honor, I would disagree. I
think, in a situation like ours, no one else is going to
come to bid because creditors who are -- or potential
purchasers who are looking to buy a hotel have multiple
opportunities to buy other hotels.
So if they know that they are going to show
up at a sale, where a creditor is owed substantially in
excess of what the property is likely to sell for, they
are not going to spend their time and effort doing the
due diligence that is required to acquire or make a bid
on an asset like a hotel.
JUSTICE BREYER: And so what's wrong with that?
I mean, a creditor loaned you a million dollars. For the
million dollars, he got an interest -- a secured
interest in a piece of property. And that property is
worth whatever it was -- whatever it's worth -- less
than a million, and he says that's the deal.
I -- I have a secured interest in this; I
want the property. Now, you are better off because you
can stretch out the payments over time, and maybe you
don't have to give it to him immediately, but I don't
see anything unfair about saying, give him the property
if he wants it.
MR. NEFF: That, in essence, would be
denying Chapter 11 relief to a host of debtors where
their collateral is worth --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, in accordance with
(i), (ii) and (iii). I mean, I'm not saying skip those.
MR. NEFF: What -- the problem is you are
cutting off the bankruptcy process, really, before it
has --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't understand that. I
mean, as I read it, to put it out on the table, I read
this makes perfect sense. What they are trying to do is
help the debtor a little, without mucking up the secured
creditor's collateral. Choice (i), give the secured
creditor his collateral, and there is still a lien on
it. He has what he had before, and the debtor is better
off because he can stretch the payments out over time,
and that's one and two.
Choice (ii), we give the creditor some new
collateral. Hmm, that's a little risky, but to be sure
it's fair, we are absolutely certain, with a few
exceptions not relevant, that the creditor can credit
bid. So he has it within his control.
Choice (iii), something else which comes up
in different situations, for example, a creditor who is
over-secured, see, and -- and they want to sell the
piece of property. And he says, sure, I will let you
sell it, but I want something that's the equivalent,
give me this other property over here that you own, that
has no liens at all. And the judge can look at that and
say that's fair. That's what (iii) is basically about,
as far as I could understand it.
So it all makes sense to me. And I don't
understand why you would want to have a rule saying that
(iii) trumps (i) and (ii) and stops credit bidding.
MR. NEFF: Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: So that's the whole thing,
as I am seeing it at this moment. So I'll give you a
chance to reply.
MR. NEFF: Thank you. Your Honor, I don't
see subsection (iii) as having the limiting language
that it should have if, in fact, it was meant to be
something other than what is in subsection (i) or
subsection (ii). There is no language that says, except
as provided for in subsection (i) or (ii), relief other
than --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, it doesn't have the
language, which is why we have a case. But, I mean,
trying to interpret it in a way that makes sense, what
is wrong with what I said as a way that makes sense? I
mean, why, since we are trying to give the -- the
creditor the indubitable value, at the very least -- the
best way to do that would be let the creditor credit
bid.
MR. NEFF: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: So why not? And you can
read it. You don't have to read it the way that -- that
you want. You could read it the opposite way, too.
MR. NEFF: If you are looking at it from the
perspective of the creditor saying well, this -- -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm looking at it from
the perspective of a bankruptcy system --
MR. NEFF: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- that is trying to get
secured creditors what they have their security in,
while giving the debtor the advantage here of being able
to stretch out his payments.
MR. NEFF: I agree. And there are other
parties and interests in -- in a bankruptcy case,
including, obviously, unsecured creditors, that get
nothing, if the result is all the creditor gets is the
relief from the automatic stay to foreclose on the
collateral, when you have this great discrepancy between
what it's owed --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, how would they get
anything, anyway? I mean, your brief suggests that,
somehow, there are these unsecured creditors in the mix
who are going to receive some benefit if your
understanding of this statute goes forward.
But, you know, in a circumstance like this,
doesn't the secured creditor either get the property or
get the money from the property, and the unsecured
creditors are out of the mix regardless?
MR. NEFF: Well, in our particular instance,
obviously, there are some senior liens that would be
paid, including things like mechanic's liens and real
estate taxes. There are other costs that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But those are -- those
continue forward. So even if the secured creditor got
the property, there would be mechanic's liens on the
property, isn't that right?
MR. NEFF: That's true, although resolving
them pursuant to a plan is usually a better resolution
for them, by providing more certainty and -- with regard
to the result, and a more quicker resolution, usually,
as opposed to being relegated only to State court to
fight them. In our --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. -- Mr. Neff, can -- are
you done? I'm sorry. I didn't want to stop your
answer.
MR. NEFF: I was only going to say that, in
our particular instance, the stalking horse had agreed
over a future time, after it obtains the property, to
provide for recovery to general unsecured creditors.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I -- let's look at the
text. Little (ii) provides for exactly what you want to
do here. What you want to do under (iii) is precisely
what (ii) says, except you want to eliminate, subject to
Section 363(k) of this title, right?
Does it -- does it make much sense for a
provision to say you can do it three ways: number (i);
number (ii), you can have this sale subject to credit
bidding; and number (iii), after -- after saying that,
specifically, oh, you can have this sale, not subject to
credit bidding?
That's -- that's not a very sensible
statute. Why -- why go through that -- that problem
of -- of saying number (ii), if you could have left it
to number (iii) anyway?
MR. NEFF: Subsection (ii) provides that, if
you allow credit bidding, regardless of the price that's
achieved, that that is deemed to be fair and equitable
treatment of the secured creditor's claim.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's just not true
from what you just said, meaning what you just said is
that the buyer, obviously, is paying other things off,
and by definition, he's deducting that from the purchase
price. No one gives a purchase price for a piece of
property and agrees to pay something else and gives the
highest price for the property once they've done that.
So what you're asking for is permission for
the debtor to use this property to pay other debts, and
that's what I thought a secured interest prevented.
MR. NEFF: With regard to Justice Scalia's
question, all I was trying to point out is that, in
subsection (ii), regardless of the -- the price that is
achieved as long, as you allow the secured creditor the
right to credit bid --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why doesn't he get --
MR. NEFF: -- that's the fair and
equitable --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why doesn't he get
everything that the buyer is promising to everyone else?
For that, indubitably, is part of the price because he
is giving out money to others. That's part of the value
of this property. So why isn't the creditor -- the
secured creditor, entitled to all of the proceeds from
the property?
MR. NEFF: The secured creditor will get all
the proceeds from the property.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No -- with -- with
sales price, but not from all the payments.
MR. NEFF: With -- right. With regard to
the pavements that are in the future, those are after
the -- the sale would be consummated to the stalking
horse bidder.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You still haven't
answered my --
MR. NEFF: There are other benefits that the
secured creditor -- that will get, that will increase
the -- the price that is received by having sold the
property in bankruptcy. For instance, when you sell
through a plan, you avoid the payment of transfer taxes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. NEFF: So, clearly, to the extent that
the transfer taxes being saved are in an amount that
exceeds what ultimately goes to the unsecured creditors,
these --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You still haven't
answered my question. If the buyer had money that he's
willing to give up to others, why isn't he putting it in
the purchase price? Why isn't that part of the price?
MR. NEFF: It would be our obligation to
show at confirmation that the creditor is paying the top
dollar for the asset. If the creditor desires to pay a
bonus or a premium on top of that, we would have to show
that, nonetheless, that the secured creditor is
receiving the indubitable equivalent and either have to
show by argument that -- a savings on the transfer tax
or some other way that this is not causing the secured
creditor to not receive the indubitable equivalent.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could -- could you
explain what the reasoning is for requiring a credit
bid, if property is sold during the plan, but not
permitting it when it's sold at plan time?
MR. NEFF: Sure.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Doesn't that delay the
bankruptcy in every situation? I can't actually
understand what benefit, other than delay of the
bankruptcy process, that would occasion.
MR. NEFF: Is your question why we always
have it under Section 363, but not under the plan?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Uh-hmm.
MR. NEFF: Section 363 allows the sale of
property outside the ordinary course of business during
a bankruptcy case. It can be done as quickly as on
21 days' notice. So it can be done on a very truncated
basis, or even more quickly if the debtor can show that
there is cause, some reason to have an even faster sale.
There is no requirement that you show that any of the
plan requirements in Section 1129 must be met.
So there are good reasons to have this
protection for the secured creditor when you are selling
under Section 363 outside of a plan context that don't
necessarily exist when you are selling in the course of
a plan because a plan takes a much longer time period,
usually at least 2 months' notice, if not much longer --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Neff, don't you feel
sorry for the United States? The United States is often
in the creditor situation, and the United States cannot
come up with cash.
Are they going to run to Congress and get an
appropriation for each -- each security case it has?
What -- what do you propose we do with the United
States? The United States just can't take any security
interests anymore or what?
MR. NEFF: Well, no, I don't think that that
is the case. And I did see that in their brief, and I
don't know the extent that, in practice, that actually
occurs because, for instance, they pointed out the SBA
loans. Those are typically guaranteed loans. So there
would be a motivation, at least by the principals of the
debtor, to maximize the return to the SBA.
But as far as them not being allowed to
credit bid, there are -- they have the opportunity to
have a greater voice in the sale process. They can
seek --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I don't understand.
MR. NEFF: Well, they can seek from the
Bankruptcy Court a greater role when the asset is being
marketed for sale to ensure that they are receiving top
dollar on their claim.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They don't have that
right now? They don't have that right now?
MR. NEFF: Well, when we sell assets, the
debtor typically has the control over how it's going to
be marketed and sold. They may give some input rights
to the secured creditor, but they're usually not going
to give the secured creditor the veto power over how to
conduct the sale.
But I -- I would suggest that, when you have
a situation with a creditor that truly cannot bid cash,
that -- that there would be an opportunity to impress
upon the judge that they need to have a greater role
when you are actually marketing and selling the
property.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Neff, can I understand
how your system would actually work in practice?
Suppose you have an -- an auction, and there is -- the
top value was $500. And then you have the secured
creditor, let's say, is in the position of the United
States and comes in and says, we couldn't credit bid,
but we -- excuse me -- we couldn't pay cash, but we
think it's $750.
MR. NEFF: Right.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And, now, the court has to
decide whether it's $500 or $750, after the auction has
gone forward. What happens?
MR. NEFF: The court is going to review the
process to actually sell the asset -- you know, who
was -- where was it marketed, who knew about it, who
showed up at the auction, how many bids were made --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, now, let's say the
court says, You know, I think that the government is
right; it's really $750. But you've already had a sale.
MR. NEFF: Right.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And -- and you've sold it
for $500.
MR. NEFF: There has been no closing. The
closing doesn't occur until the plan confirmation
actually occurs. And, in fact, that's how you would do
it after this Court's ruling in 2008.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But wouldn't the court
always say, when -- when it's confronted with this
situation, the government comes in, and the court says,
yes, well, you know, I -- I guess that that price is
probably so low because nobody could credit bid. I
mean, wouldn't that always be a -- a frailty of
whatever -- whatever price it sold for? Wouldn't it
always be?
MR. NEFF: No, because you are going to have
situations where creditors -- secured creditors will
credit bid amounts that have no relationship to the fair
market value, what we call, for instance, loan-to-own
lenders, where their only interest is actually getting
the title to the property. So you are going to have
situations that -- where the credit bid does not equate
to market --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that might be, but --
you know, it doesn't -- it doesn't take a genius to
figure out that if you allow people to bid for cash or
for credit, you are going to get more bids and higher
bids than -- than if you allow them to bid for cash
only.
MR. NEFF: The problem is, when you are
dealing with larger assets, like what we are dealing
with, you are not going to get a sophisticated buyer to
come in to bid against a lender that can credit bid,
particularly in a situation like our case, where the
lender has said, I simply want the property back.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That just means that you
can't find a buyer who is willing to pay that much.
MR. NEFF: Well, we believe that -- that
subsection (iii) allows us to show that the -- the
secured creditors receiving the --
JUSTICE BREYER: You said -- look, in subsection
(iii), if it applies here -- I assume there's -- suppose it
doesn't apply here. There is a safeguard against having
no bidder.
Bidders who would bid more than what the
creditor thinks it's worth, the creditor will want them
in this. And if they -- he doesn't want it in, it's
because he thinks it's worth more in his own hands. So
what's the problem?
But there is a problem the other way. The
problem the other way -- and I'm not saying it's this
case, but there are -- is that the insiders say to the
stalking horse, we would like you to put this up at a
low price and give us a job. And if they keep the
creditor out, well, that's a big incentive.
And they are the ones who know what a hotel
is worth, the judge doesn't know, and there is always
leeway. And so that -- that was worrying me about this
fact pattern. You want -- you want to get rid of my
worry?
MR. NEFF: Yes, I do.
JUSTICE BREYER: Good.
MR. NEFF: The bankruptcy judge sees this in
a variety of cases, just the natural tension that you
have in a bankruptcy, individuals who may be
self-interested, yet they are supposed to be fiduciaries
for the estate. It's part of our roles as lawyers to be
the fiduciaries as well.
Our particular instance, it's not a concern
because the property is being marketed to a wide array
of people. There's no requirement that they keep the
management company, and there's every opportunity for
any other hotel company to come in -- or any other
strategic buyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: You know, but the concern was -- I
gather there is no other bidder, you have said. You've
just found the stalking horse. You agree to pay the
stalking horse a million and a half dollars, in case he
doesn't get it. And then the people from the inside are
being hired by the stalking horse, if he wins.
MR. NEFF: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, I'm not -- I'm sure
they are acting very honestly. But you would have to
say, in such a situation, that there is an incentive to
try to value everything on the low side by the debtor to
make sure that stalking horse gets the property. And
that incentive is destroyed -- or at least doesn't work,
if you allow the creditor bid.
MR. NEFF: Interestingly, the process
actually works a little different than that.
You -- Debtors will go out -- and their
financial advisers will actually go out and try to
market the ability to be the stalking horse, to actually
try to get the best stalking horse bid.
In this particular instance, what we got was
the -- ultimately, the $55 million. We are confident
the property, ultimately, will sell for more.
JUSTICE ALITO: When this procedure is
followed, how often does a buyer, other than the
stalking horse, obtain the property?
MR. NEFF: I don't know from a statistical
basis -- and, you know, a stalking horse, if they have
the -- the -- a break-up fee, they have that built-in
cushion. And in our case, I would point out the judge
had not yet approved the break-up fee, but it was a
standard 3 percent of the -- of the bid price. So I
don't know what -- what percentage it is, and -- you
know, from my own experience --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't realize the judge
had to approve -
MR. NEFF: The stalking horse?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. NEFF: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The judge has to approve
the stalking horse?
MR. NEFF: That's part of the bid
procedures.
And buyers -- more sophisticated buyers --
and when you deal with bigger assets, they're used to
the process being this way, that there is going to be a
stalking horse and that there is going to be some sort
of protection.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The vast majority of
bankruptcy courts have permitted credit bidding in these
situations. So if the vast majority of bankruptcies
have stalking horses, then the norm is working, without
us having to rule in your favor.
MR. NEFF: I would say the vast majority of
cases occur under Section 363, where there is no
question, because of 363(k), that there is the right --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And stalking horses
still come in. So it's not as if the 363(k) procedure
is failing in maximizing prices.
MR. NEFF: The -- the major -- that is true.
The major difference is that a sale, under Section
363(k), almost invariably, the secured creditor
supports, so there is no question, but that there is
going to be a transaction occurring, whereas --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- say it again? I
didn't -- I didn't understand that.
MR. NEFF: When you are selling under
Section 363, because of 363(k), there must be a right to
credit bid; and, in most situations, the secured
creditor wants the assets sold when you are doing a
Section 363 sale. So there is no question, in the minds
of a buyer, but that there is going to be a transaction.
And there is a reason to spend your time and effort
learning more and doing due diligence about the asset.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well -- Well, this
is a case, though, where you would not want the asset
sold. In other words, looking at it, he thinks, for
particular, unusual situations, this is vastly
undervalued; I am holding an asset that is going to
appreciate if I hold onto it. So he doesn't want the
asset sold.
MR. NEFF: That's correct. And -- and it's
our belief that the Bankruptcy Code provides the
ability, in subsection (iii), to conduct the sale and
pay the secured creditor the indubitable equivalence of
its claim.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And what -- what is
the doubtless equivalent of his claim? Measured by the
current market conditions? Or does that include some
premium, based on the assumption that it's going to
increase in value over some period?
MR. NEFF: It's going to be measured by the
current market conditions, but to the extent that the
secured creditor brings in an appraisal, that will
invariably be based on what the projections are going to
be and -- and take that into account.
So if I could reserve the remainder of my
time?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Maynard?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DEANNE E. MAYNARD
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. MAYNARD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Secured creditors bargain for the right to
be repaid in full or, if not, to foreclose and take the
collateral that secures their loan.
When a Chapter 11 bankruptcy plan is going
to cram down a plan over the objection of a secured
creditor, Section 1129(b)(2)(A) gives the secured
creditor the ability to protect those rights, regardless
of the proposed treatment of its collateral.
Specifically, when the plan proposes, as
here, to sell the collateral, free and clear of the
secured creditor's liens, and give the secured creditor
nothing but the proceeds from that sale, clause (ii)
entitles the secured creditor to bid what it is owed in
the absence of cause to preclude it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or -- or he is
entitled to realize the indubitable equivalent of his
claims. You really do just kind of elide the fact that
the statute says, "or."
MS. MAYNARD: No, Your Honor. We give full
meaning to the "or." We don't dispute that these are
three alternative ways to cram down a plan. The
question here is or what? And the question is the scope
of the alternatives and in which circumstances they
apply.
And, here, Congress turned its attention to
precisely the situation at hand and determined what the
requirements were, but not just the requirements for a
sale free and clear. It's not like clause (ii) says, if
you sell it free and clear and you allow credit bidding,
then that's one way to go. It's not just the
requirement of credit bidding. It also sets forth the
only exception to credit bidding. And Petitioners'
reading would read clause (iii) to be a much bigger
exception.
Now, Petitioners here tried and failed in
the Bankruptcy Court to prove cause, and they don't
appeal that. So they are trying to create a much bigger
exception to the exception Congress allowed --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They tried and failed to
prove what?
JUSTICE ALITO: Cause.
MS. MAYNARD: Your Honor, cause.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Cause.
MS. MAYNARD: So under -- we reprint -- the
1129 clause (ii) is on 20a in the red brief at the back.
And it -- it provides: "For the sale, subject to
Section 363(k) of this title, of any property that is
subject to liens securing such claims free and clear of
such liens." And that refers you to 363(k), which is
also at the back of our brief.
And 363(k) provides that, "Unless the court
for cause orders otherwise, the holder of such claim may
bid at such sale; and if the holder of such claim
purchases such property, such holder may offset such
claim against the purchase price of such property."
So my point is clause (ii) is not just, if
you let them credit bid, then that's one way to go to
fair and equitable. It's you must let them credit bid,
unless cause is shown. And they tried in the Bankruptcy
Court, Justice Scalia, to prove cause. And the district
court found against them on that point, and they don't
appeal it. I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your -- your friend
on the other side suggests that (ii) and (iii) address
different ways of protecting the secured creditor. (ii)
is procedural, right? You can go through these
procedures, and you can cram down, so long as you are
going through these procedures, which include credit
bidding.
Or you can cram down if you ensure that he
receives the indubitable equivalent, a substantive
protection. What is wrong with that reading?
MS. MAYNARD: I don't think that's a fair
characterization of the three clauses, Mr. Chief
Justice, because all three of the clauses have both
procedural and substantive components. And essentially,
what Petitioners seek to do here is exchange their
preferred procedure, which is a sale without allowing us
to credit bid, followed by a judicial determination of
whether whatever number that sale produces is high
enough to be our secured claim.
But the whole point is, if the secured
creditor is willing to bid one more dollar of what it's
owed at the sale, that is the value of our secured
claim. And --
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it correct that, really,
the heart of your argument is that the real value of
this property is greater than the value that you think
the Bankruptcy Court would assign to it, if this were
done under subsection (iii)?
MS. MAYNARD: That is definitely the fear,
Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why? Why do you have that
fear?
MS. MAYNARD: Because valuations are
inherently uncertain, and Congress knew that. And in
this Bankruptcy Code, Congress tried to move away from
judicial valuations for precisely that reason.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But doesn't clause (i)
depend upon a judicial valuation? In clause (i), the
Court has to say, what is the present value of your
property, so that it knows what the right income stream
is.
MS. MAYNARD: That's true, Justice Kagan.
But, if you proceed through clause (i), the code
provides a secured creditor with a different protection
against undervaluation. So the whole code structure is
set up to protect the secured creditor against the risk
of undervaluation of its claim. And that's the Section
1111(b) election. So Section 1111(b) election allows
the secured creditor who is undersecured and is afraid
that their -- their value of their property will be
misvalued in a clause (i), to elect to have their entire
face value of their claim treated as secured.
So here, the lenders are owed more than
$130 million. If they were to proceed under clause (i),
the lenders would have the option to have that whole
$130 million treated as secured. And that would be the
value of the secured claim.
And, under clause (i), yes, we would then be
subject to the judicial determination of the present
value of whatever a note paying out $130 million would
be, but two protections we would have. They wouldn't be
determining the principal. The principal -- the face
value of the note would have to be $130 million; and the
lien that we would retain would be $130 million.
JUSTICE KAGAN: How about in subsection
(iii), where it talks about substitute collateral?
That's completely a judicial valuation, isn't it?
MS. MAYNARD: That would be true, but I
think, in that situation, we would also have the option
to make the 1111(b) election. And, therefore, they
would have to substitute collateral that would be up to
the $130 million mark. So it's true -- and it's true
that Congress did leave this other, but it is an other.
And I think -- I think another way to --
another point to make that clear is the fact that clause
(ii) expressly has a role for clause (iii), and it
doesn't come into play until after the sale at which the
secured creditor gets to credit bid. And --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what is it about the
auction -- what is it about the auction process that you
think is likely to produce or creates an -- an
unacceptable risk of producing a valuation that is --
that is too low? Is it because of this -- the use of
the stalking horse or -- or what is it about the
process?
MS. MAYNARD: If the secured creditors
aren't able to come in and bid their credit and if the
secured creditors can't, as is a real risk, raise enough
cash to bid the amount of their credit in cash -- and,
in some instances, as with the government, they're -- they
can't -- they actually can't.
But, in a lot of these complicated loans,
there are multiple lenders, and it would be very
difficult to come up with the money to put in. And they
are, therefore -- you are taking out of the marketplace
one of the most knowledgeable bidders about this
property. And there is no good reason to do that.
These -- it's not like they are bidding funny money.
They -- they have already put in $142 million.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but there is,
of course, a good reason, which is consistent with the
policy of the Bankruptcy Code, which is you do want to
look out for the other creditors as well. And if the
secured creditor is getting, indubitably, the value of
this security, why don't you weigh in the balance at
least the interests of -- of the other creditors?
MS. MAYNARD: There will be no cash for
anyone junior to these creditors, unless these creditors
are paid in full, regardless of whether everyone bids in
cash or we bid in credit. This property is well under
water. There -- there is no equity in it. The secured
lenders have lent them 142 million --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, maybe in this
particular case, but that's not going to be true in
every case, and we are asked to issue a ruling that is
going to apply in every case.
MS. MAYNARD: In every case where the
property is under water, there will be -- in every case
in which the secured creditor has a lien on the
property, the secured creditor takes first. So until
the -- so underwater or not, until the secured creditor
is paid --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know, but
the whole premise of why this problem arises is that the
security is worth a lot less than -- than it was,
obviously, when it was -- was purchased. Or a lot less
than -- a lot less than the claim that it was meant to
secure.
MS. MAYNARD: Everyone agrees that the
property is under water, but it's important to note that
the valuations in this case that have been filed in the
district court, in conjunction with the relief from the
stay, the appraisals are different by tens of millions
of dollars, what the property is worth.
And if you allow that to go to a judge, to
decide whether it's enough, that's an inherently
uncertain process. And -- you know, judicial valuation,
the -- the court -- tens of millions of dollars, the
judge could decide, and it might not be a fact that we
could overturn, if that goes to a fairly erroneous finding.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is -- I was just
guessing before, but, I mean, if you're right, what is
the (iii) -- the indubitable equivalent, what kind of
situation does that come up?
I mean, I was guessing it would come up,
maybe an over secured creditor, they want to -- they
want to sell the property, and he still wants his
security, and they have to put in equivalent property
that wasn't mortgaged, but I was just guessing.
MS. MAYNARD: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: So -- so what is it
really -- what is it really used for, in your opinion?
MS. MAYNARD: The legislative history,
Justice Breyer, suggests two meanings for it.
JUSTICE BREYER: What?
MS. MAYNARD: Two examples. And that's what
you see in the case. There aren't very many clause
(iii) cases. There will be many more, if this Court
holds that this is permissible.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I'm sure.
MS. MAYNARD: But that -- there aren't very
many clause (iii) cases. And they abandon --
abandonment of the collateral. So, in other words, they
could decide just to turn all of the collateral over,
and that would be the indubitable -- that would be res
ipsa, our secured claim. I mean, that -- the -- we have
collateral in everything they own, the hotel, the
garage, all of the proceeds.
Or, as Justice Kagan was suggesting, some of
the cases involve providing a substitute lien. But the
courts are --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what I was thinking.
MS. MAYNARD: -- courts are very hesitant to
do that. And it would have to be really -- because it
is -- you know, you are stripping our lien. You're
supposedly giving us an equal lien. So -- you know,
maybe if you can imagine -- maybe if these creditors
owned the airport at the Dulles -- you know, a hotel at
the Dulles Airport and a parking garage, and one could
say it's exactly the same risk factor and everything,
and we're going to swap that in for this. But --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me what
the -- what's the purpose -- if you permit credit
bidding, why do you go through the sale at all, if it's
always -- if the credit is always going to be higher
than the value? Why don't you just turn over the
property under (iii)? What -- why do you -- why do you
go through the sham of a sale?
MS. MAYNARD: It's not a sham,
Justice Sotomayor, because the creditor -- secured
creditors don't often want to run a hotel and parking
garage. They may not want the property. So what they
are interested in doing is maximizing the value, getting
back as much as they can of the money that they --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So it is the stalking
horse dance? At what point do they credit bid until
they get the highest price from someone else and then
let that other person have it, is that it?
MS. MAYNARD: That's definitely one of the
strategies. And if they -- so they -- so what clause
(ii) allows a secured creditor -- it allows the secured
creditor to choose whether it takes its property, which
was the right it had prebankruptcy, or whether it's
enough. But if you leave it to their system -- and
he's -- I'm sorry --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: When do you think, under
363(k), what's good -- what would constitute or has
constituted in the case law good cause not to permit
credit bidding? What situations have arisen under
363(k), where a court has found good cause?
MS. MAYNARD: The cause cases include
malfeasance of the creditor in some way --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. What --
MS. MAYNARD: Malfeasance of the creditor in
some way. Or whether there might be --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How does a creditor
commit malfeasance?
MS. MAYNARD: I'm sorry. I can't remember
any specific examples.
But another instance -- and it's actually
one that -- that goes to something Justice Kagan asked
earlier, which is -- is -- when there's some dispute
about priority or whether there might be senior liens.
So, in this case, the -- the bankruptcy
judge provided at 44(a) and 45(a) -- because there --
there are some real estate taxes that would be senior to
our liens, and there's a debate about whether the
mechanic's liens are senior or not.
And so the bankruptcy judge provided that --
that -- that, here, it would be appropriate for us to
either put up cash, in that amount, the amount of the
potentially senior liens, or to offer -- you know, some
security to cover those, in the event that they turn up.
And that is an example of cause. And that is --
clearly answers the concern that there may be others.
No one junior to these creditors is going to
take anything. And all making us cash bid would do,
assuming the secured creditors are able to come up with
the cash to bid in this amount, would be to endless --
just to pointlessly cycle money into the estate, and
then, if we're the winning bid, through the estate and
back to us, at the risk of their siphoning off the money
that really shouldn't go to anyone else because we
have -- the cash collateral is these secured
creditors' -- the hotel and the parking garage are all
these secured creditors' collateral.
Now, the Petitioners say this is going to --
if you let the secured creditors bid, this is going to
chill credit bidding. Well, they tried to prove that in
the bankruptcy court, and the bankruptcy court, at pages
43(a) and 44(a), rejected that as a matter of fact.
But, anyway, as a matter of theory, their
proposal -- who would bid in their proposal? Their
proposal is you do the due diligence, you have to prove
you have the money, you put up the bid, and then at the
back end, you know that the secured creditor is going to
be able to come in and tell the bankruptcy judge, I
would have bid more with my secured credit. So anyone
who bids knows that there's the potential that it's all
going to be a waste of time.
And then how do you do it over at that
point? Once everybody has shown their hand, put their
bids in, what, are you going to take a mulligan after
the -- after the bankruptcy court says, no, they're not
getting their indubitable equivalent because I find they
would have bid more in their security?
Well, that's just -- that -- who's going to
bid in that situation?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How does it -- how
does it work in practice? Is this something that is
subject of extensive negotiation? The secured creditor
says, well, I'm interested in bidding in a credit bid,
but I appreciate that that's going to make it difficult
for you to get cash.
And you've got these unsecured creditors who
would want -- and so, what? I'm not going to credit
bid, so long as -- or I will only credit bid up to this
particular amount; or let's sit down and work out a
deal, negotiate over exactly how we're going to handle
my security. Is -- is that really how it happens? Or
is that not -- or not.
MS. MAYNARD: I think all those things are
ways that it can happen, Mr. Chief Justice. And,
certainly, counsel was distinguishing the --
during the plan sale requirement, where he concedes
that, if you do a 363(b) sale -- you know, 363(k)
applies, but he says it's not a problem because you can
negotiate.
There are actually many negotiations in a --
in a plan sale context. And it would be odd, I would --
I would suggest, that you can do a cramdown plan over
the secured creditor's objection and have less credit
bidding rights than you can when you agree to do it.
And so, in the end, there's nothing wrong
with the secured creditor coming in and bidding its
credit and taking the asset. After all, they already
put in $142 million. They're owed $130 million. The
debtors have no equity in -- in this process.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wouldn't that be a reason
for saying that there's no adequate -- there's nothing
under (iii) that would be the indubitable equivalent?
In other words, one thing is to say that, if
you -- if (ii) -- if you fit into (ii), that's it, you
don't go to (iii). Another is to say, well, you can go
to (iii), but it's most unlikely that there would be the
indubitable equivalent of allowing credit bidding.
MS. MAYNARD: I don't think that latter way
would be the better reading of the statute, Justice
Ginsburg, because Congress turned its attention to this
precise problem and decided that the best way to protect
the secured creditor against the risk of undervaluation
was to allow it to -- to bid. And I -- and I think, for
the reasons I said earlier, the system that they propose
is -- is not a workable system or a good system, and it
wouldn't be good to have there be uncertainty about the
auction -- about whether or not it was going to
ultimately -- you know, go through.
And as long as the secured creditor is
willing to bid at the -- at the auction its secured
credit, put its money where its mouth is, that is the
value of its -- of its secured claim, and so it could
never be the indubitable equivalent to go under (iii),
where it's not allowed to bid.
JUSTICE KAGAN: The Petitioner suggests that
the usual rule that the specific governs, rather than
the general provision, doesn't apply in this case
because the specific is not a subset of the general.
What's -- what's -- what's your view about that?
MS. MAYNARD: Well, this Court's never
applied the rule in that way. And I think the Court --
it's -- it's always the case that, when the Court's
looking at these kinds of problems, that the general
provision could be read to encompass what the party
before the Court is seeking to do.
But the -- when Congress has set up a
precise scheme -- and, here, I think it's important to
realize it's not just the requirements, but also the
exception to the requirements -- and then, also, the way
that (ii) is -- refers to (iii), and (iii) doesn't kick
in until after the sale --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I lost you. I lost you.
MS. MAYNARD: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not just the
requirements, but the exceptions to the requirements.
What are you referring to?
MS. MAYNARD: The for cause.
So by reading in 363(k), Justice Scalia,
it's not only the requirement of credit bidding, but
also the only exception.
But then also, if I could just elaborate
this -- the point about how it refers to clause (iii),
on 20(a) of our brief, we set forth the text. The final
clause of clause (ii) says that, once the sale goes
through, the liens attach to the proceeds of the sale.
And the treatment of those liens on the proceeds are
done under clause (i) or clause (iii) of this
subparagraph.
So clause (ii) contemplates that there will
be some judicial determination of indubitable
equivalence, but only after the amount of the
proceeds -- because -- after all, what we're trying to
determine here is the value of the secured claim.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You said, earlier,
we have never said that the specific has to be a subset
of the general. How do -- how would it otherwise be
specific and the one general? It seems, if they are not
a subset, then they are alternatives. I don't see how
the whole doctrine makes any sense, if the specific is
not a subset of the general.
MS. MAYNARD: Well, maybe I misunderstood
Justice Kagan's question or I misunderstood their point.
I thought their point was looking specifically at the --
the facts of the Speedy Trial Act case and saying
because it's a list and it says, "includes," and then
there are subsets under the list, that's how I
understood their argument.
Yes, it's certainly true -- like, take the
venue statute case -- you know, the general venue
provision clearly covered patent infringement suits.
But then there was a specific patent infringement venue
statute, and the -- the patent infringement statute
didn't say it was the exclusive patent venue statue, and
the general venue statute didn't say, "except as
otherwise provided in the code," yet this Court said,
well, the patent -- Congress turned its attention to
patent infringement suits and created this venue. And
that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So when we say, our
doctrine says the specific controls over the general,
the specific is a subset of the general?
MS. MAYNARD: Yes, to the extent that I
think it's always fair to say that what the party who's
claiming they fit within the general does could
definitionally possibly fit within the general. We --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you.
MS. MAYNARD: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Harrington?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SARAH E. HARRINGTON,
FOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MS. HARRINGTON: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Big case for the
government, Ms. Harrington, isn't it?
MS. HARRINGTON: Pardon me?
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is a big case for the
government.
MS. HARRINGTON: It is a big case for the
government. As you suggest, the government is in the
position of -- that actually many secured creditors are
in these days, which is that we have constraints on our
ability to cash bid at the sale of our collateral
through a bankruptcy. And the detailed cramdown
provisions of Chapter 11 are designed to protect the
rights of secured creditors.
The essence of being a secured creditor, of
course, as the Court has suggested, is that the secured
creditor has bargained for the right either to get its
money back or to get the thing that secures its loan, to
get its collateral.
And the type of sale that is contemplated in
clause (ii) of Section 1129(b)(2)(A) is precisely
designed to guarantee that the creditor will get the
benefit of its bargain.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You have got a whole
cadre of U.S. trustees that, presumably, can look out
for the interests of the poor United States.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, in most Chapter
11 cases, the U.S. trustee doesn't play a role because
it's a debtor in possession. And so the trustee is not
in charge of the property of the estate. The debtor --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought we were
worried about the situation where it's a creditor.
MS. HARRINGTON: Where the -- where the
United States is a creditor. That -- that's true. But
if there's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In those cases, of
course, the trustee's there, right?
MS. HARRINGTON: The trustee is there. But,
if the debtor proposes a plan that wouldn't allow the
United States to credit bid at an auction that is
selling its collateral, then the United States is
usually out of luck because the Antideficiency Act
prevents us from bidding cash.
Now, I would like to respond to one -- one
sort of assumption that has seemed to permeate the
conversation here, which is that a secured creditor will
always have an incentive to bid the full amount of its
claim at an auction of its assets, where the auction is
supposed to be free of liens. That is actually not
true.
As my friend Ms. Maynard suggested, unless a
bank is trying to get into the business of running a
hotel or running whatever business is the collateral,
the creditor will only want to take the property if it
thinks it can make a profit by then turning around and
selling the property.
So if there is an auction, where there is a
cash bid, and the creditor thinks that the value of --
the amount of the cash bid is actually a fair valuation
of the property, the creditor has no incentive to bid
higher than that in credit because it has no expectation
of getting more money than that when it then takes the
property and turns around and sells it.
So allowing the credit bidding won't have
the effect of serving as a veto on what would be a fair
sale price by a cash bidder. The -- the secured
creditor's incentive is only to bid up to what it -- up
to what it views as the value of the property and not a
penny more because it's not trying to take the property
just for the property's sake. In most cases, it wants
to take the property and then sell the property.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but, of
course, it could bid up if it thinks that there are
going to be other bidders, right? It has a lot more
flexibility than the other bidders to -- to the extent
of its security interest.
MS. HARRINGTON: I mean, it has more
flexibility because it has already put up its money.
But every bidder has that incentive that you suggest,
which is to try to make sure that it's -- to sort of
game the system a little bit and -- and -- and make
everybody put their money where their mouth is.
But Congress gave secured creditors a right
to have a role, where they get to put their money where
their mouth is, any time there is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That just begs the
question, Congress gave them a right -- I mean, that's
what we are deciding, right?
MS. HARRINGTON: Absolutely. And -- and
Petitioner is certainly correct, that the phrase
"indubitable equivalence," an unusual phrase in the
statute, that that phrase is broad enough to cover any
type of disposition of a secured creditor's claim,
including the sale of property free of liens.
But Congress also enacted two much more
specific provisions right next to clause (iii). And, in
those provisions, number (i), which governs -- governs
the retention of liens on -- on collateral, and number
(ii), which governs the sale of -- the sale of
collateral free of liens, there are very specific
protections written into clauses (i) and clause (ii).
And this Court's interpretive canon that a specific
provision will trump a more general provision, where
both could apply, would seem clearly to apply here.
If a plan proposes a disposition of a claim
that is addressed by a clause (i) or a clause (ii), it
doesn't make any sense to allow them to strip out
protections that are provided in those clauses by
purporting to go under the more general standard of
indubitable equivalence.
That is especially true because the type of
judicial valuation of the property that would take place
under Petitioners' type of scheme is not guaranteed to
make sure that the creditor gets what it bargained for,
which is either its money or its property, but that is
exactly what clause (ii), that type of auction, is
guaranteed to do.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What is the reference?
In clause (ii), we were just told, the -- the last
clause refers to "under clause (i) or clause (iii)."
What -- what is the reference in (ii) to clause (iii)?
What does that mean?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, the type of sale
contemplated in clause (ii) is, essentially, a
liquidation of the secured creditor's lien on a
property. And so you -- the sale would, essentially,
liquidate the lien. And then clause (ii) provides
that -- that there would need to be a replacement lien
on the proceeds of the sale. That replacement lien
would then have to be treated under clause (i) or clause
(iii).
I think it's fair to say, in most
situations, what happens is that the proceeds of the
sale are handed over to the secured creditor, which is
essentially a clause (iii) treatment of the lien on the
proceeds, in the sense that, if the lien on the proceeds
is a lien on the pile of cash, if you hand over the pile
of cash, you're surrendering the collateral that is
securing that lien, which is the classic example of
indubitable equivalence. That is one of the examples
cited in the legislative history and in Judge Hand's
opinion in In re Murel.
I think one of the assumptions that
permeates the Petitioners' brief is that valuation -- that
the value of collateral is something we can all know and
agree upon.
But valuation is an inherently difficult
undertaking. And this Court has recognized that, when
Congress enacted the code in 1978, it shifted the
preference to move from judicial valuation towards
market valuations.
And, here, Congress, in clause (ii),
expressed its view that -- that the type of market that
would value this property would include one of the most
interested market participants, who is -- which is the
secured creditor who has an interest in the property.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course, valuing
property is what bankruptcy judges do all the time,
right?
MS. HARRINGTON: They -- they definitely do.
But I think, here, Congress provided that this would be
a situation where the secured creditor would have a role
in valuing the property, and even under -- as Justice
Kagan pointed out, even -- I think it was Justice
Kagan -- under clause (i), the judge has a role in
valuing the property because we have to determine the
present day value of the cash stream that the creditor
would be owed.
But as judge -- as my friend -- as Ms.
Maynard pointed out -- maybe you will be a judge some
day --
(Laughter.)
MS. HARRINGTON: The creditor in that
situation has a role in -- in protecting itself against
undervaluation because it can make the 1111(b) election,
retain the full amount of its claim if it wants, and --
and protect itself going forward.
I think one way that's important is that it
protects -- it prevents debtors from cashing out
creditors at a low value, at a point where the -- in the
market where the value of the property is low because
they retain the lien for the full amount.
The same thing is true here. If this is a
particularly low point in the market and the creditor is
trying to sell the property at auction -- I'm sorry --
the debtor is trying to sell the property at auction,
the creditor can come in and take the property and
realize any -- any upside down the road.
If there are no further questions?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MS. HARRINGTON: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Neff, you have 4
minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID M. NEFF
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. NEFF: With regard to the market
valuation, we are doing a market valuation, as this
Court instructed in the 203 North LaSalle case from
1999, by having an auction, and, after that auction,
still having to prove up that we've given the
indubitable equivalence by showing what occurred at that
auction. And, if the lenders would like to bring, at
that point, their appraisals and show that we didn't
achieve that amount, then we are not going to be able to
satisfy the indubitable equivalence standard.
Secondly, with regard to the role that
subsection (iii) plays in subsection (ii) --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What you just said is, so
long as they come in with some appraisals that are above
what -- what the property sold at for cash, then it's
not the indubitable equivalent?
MR. NEFF: If they can --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because you've got to have
at least one appraiser who says it's -- it's worth more.
Is that all it takes?
MR. NEFF: Right. The -- the question --
it's a very high standard.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Indubitable is indubitable.
MR. NEFF: It's a very high standard. And
as long as --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you have one honest
appraiser who says --
MR. NEFF: If it is a creditable appraisal
and we were unable to achieve that, then we will have a
very difficult time satisfying that standard, but the
process will have been allowed to play out, which is
extremely important because those of us who have done
debtor work know how many times a lender doesn't want to
do something, and, ultimately, you have a sale or
otherwise some sort of disposition of assets, the price
gets high enough, and they are willing to go along with
it.
So with regard to the market test --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what happens if you
go to the judge and the judge says, there is one higher
bid, so I can't say it's indubitable? Then what
happens?
MR. NEFF: Then -- then you would have to
provide additional consideration to the secured creditor
to get it to the level that the judge would find it to
be indubitable.
So it's no different than at any plan
confirmation hearing, if you say, judge, my plan is
dependent upon the interest rate being set at 5 percent.
The judge says, well, I find it should be 6 percent.
You have to find a way to bridge that gap.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that assumes that you
can just pull out a wad of cash from your back pocket,
but, mostly, the debtors are not in that position. So
it just seems like a gigantic waste of time.
MR. NEFF: It's -- it's more so that the --
the purchaser would have to come up with that -- would
have to come up with that or find some other way to
bridge that gap.
It's not really a waste of time because,
again, you are allowing the process to -- to play itself
out. Too many times, we see, with secured creditors,
they're unwilling to deal with debtors because they have
gotten them in the particular situation. And then, when
you are able to actually have an auction, they are
surprised by how high the bidding gets because
bankruptcy auctions are very fulsome events and -- and
create -- can create quite a lot of bidding that can
really generate very high -- high value for the
property.
As far as the role that (iii) plays in (ii),
it's a bit convoluted; but, if you pursue a plan sale
through subsection (ii), you don't have to show
indubitable equivalence, as long as they are allowed to
credit bid. But if, in fact, they don't credit bid or
they -- they are topped and you are able to raise cash,
that cash must be treated in an indubitable equivalence
way or in accordance with subsection (i).
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm a person
who believes that, in the business world, the greatest
security is just knowledge of what courts will do. And
what the two courts who have agreed with you have done
is contrary to what the majority of courts have done
for -- for the longest time.
What's the value for us upsetting the norm?
MR. NEFF: Okay.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the business
value for upsetting the norm?
MR. NEFF: With regard to what courts have
done for a very long time -- for the 30 years that that
has been referenced have been primarily in section --
with regard to Section 363 sales, as opposed to plan
sales. What it --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That means, because
people didn't think they could do it in plan sales. So
why should we upset the expectation?
MR. NEFF: It's also difficult, in a
bankruptcy situation, to keep the case alive long enough
to get to plan confirmation, particularly if it's a -
if it's a business that's struggling financially because
the secured creditor has an ability to get relief from
the automatic stay. So that's why we would have more
Section 363 sales.
But, with regard to the benefit, you look at
a case like Philadelphia -- or a case like the Pacific
Lumber out of the Fifth Circuit, which allowed an entire
enterprise to be restructured out of a very positive
sale of the timberlands that would not have occurred if,
in fact, the Court had required credit bidding because
the lender simply would have taken back that one crucial
asset around which the entire enterprise was
restructured.
So I think, from a debtor's perspective,
that is, obviously, of -- of great --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They could have gone
under (i) and -- and given the secured lender what he's
entitled to, which is a future stream of payment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If -- please.
MR. NEFF: They could have gone under (i)
if, in fact, that -- that the lender would have been
precluded from making a Section 1111(b) election and
also precluded from credit bidding because credit
bidding's not required under subsection (i), and an
1111(b) election does not apply when there is a sale.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:01 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
46:17 58:2 32:3 38:6,6 approved 4:20 21:12,16,18,23,23
40:12 54:10
44:22 argument 1:12 2:2,5 29:13,18 37:24 29:21,25 30:1,22
57:2
27:15 31:5 45:6 56:4 58:11 34:15 38:1 39:17
arisen 38:14 bank 1:6 3:5 48:8 40:13,21,23 41:2,7
33:19 39:11 array 23:10 bankruptcy 3:14 46:17 47:21 48:3
41:8 aside 5:7 10:8 12:12,19 48:14,15,16,23
48:3,15 53:7 asked 34:20 39:1 16:12 17:13,15,21 49:4 55:17 57:1,1
54:10 asking 15:6 19:5 23:3,5 25:14 bidder 8:21 16:6
assets 3:21 5:15,19 bargain 27:19 47:4 8:9,14 11:10 14:13
assign 31:7 based 27:4,9 34:3 37:14 38:14
assumes 56:3 bear 5:25 48:20 56:17,19
52:2
43:6 50:10 assumptions 51:24 54:1 34:14 40:14,18
59:1 attach 44:9 belief 26:22 big 22:20 46:8,11,13
29:9 31:4,10
42:14 45:15 believes 57:6 bit 49:12 56:23
33:9
6:3,19 19:24 20:7 47:4 58:5 break-up 24:18,20
15:12 21:16
42:21,24 47:21 best 5:16 12:3 24:9 11:12,22 12:6,11
24:3 28:22
42:17 47:20
53:16,17 54:5,5,8 better 9:22 10:16 23:22 35:21 36:6,9
auctions 56:18 bid 3:12,23 4:4 5:2,3 bridge 56:2,10
43:3 55:7
44:7 30:2,3 38:13,15,16 clause 28:5,21 29:1 conduct 19:15 26:23 20:25 27:18 29:4
39:14 44:1 29:13,24 31:17,18 conducted 4:19 5:5 29:19 30:3,4 31:7
57:6,13 58:1 chance 11:14 51:1,1,1,2,5,8,11 20:20 55:24 57:25 courts 25:14 37:1,3
22:2 23:14 47:8 50:7,14 Congress 18:12 20:22 43:9,11 50:8
26:11 characterization clear 28:3,21,22 28:18 29:6 31:14 cover 39:13 49:23
11:23 12:19 45:25 46:2,7 47:5 8:3 10:4,14,15,20 constituted 38:13 creates 33:11
18:13,18 47:12,17 49:3,17 12:23 27:21 28:1,3 constraints 46:16 credit 3:12,23 4:4
22:17 23:18 52:13 53:21,23 32:21 33:1 36:18 consummated 16:5 4:10 6:13,17 8:9
26:15 34:19 58:19 59:3 36:19,22 39:24 contemplated 47:1 8:14,20,21,25
chill 40:4 40:1 46:17,25 51:5 10:22 11:10 12:3
36:12 38:13 Choice 10:14,19,24 47:22 48:9 50:4,6 contemplates 44:13 14:12,15,21 15:13
43:6,11 45:3 choose 38:7 51:19 52:1 context 18:4 41:20 17:8 18:25 20:2
46:8,11,13 chosen 4:9 come 9:6 18:11 continue 13:14 21:2,8,12,17,23
57:24 58:6,6 Circuit 58:7 21:23 23:13 25:22 contrary 57:9 25:14 26:8 28:22
circumstance 8:15 33:7,17,24 35:24 control 10:23 19:11 28:24,25 29:25
38:16 circumstances 6:18 53:18 54:15 56:8,9 conversation 48:2 33:19 34:15 37:13
49:1 8:19 28:16 comes 10:24 20:2 convoluted 56:23 37:15 38:1,14 40:4
21:16,18 claim 4:8,16 5:14 coming 41:25 49:21 42:1,11,25 44:3
34:12,15 14:23 19:7 26:25 commit 38:22 costs 13:12 47:21 48:17,20
27:2 29:20,21,23 company 23:12,13 counsel 27:13 41:14 57:1,1 58:10,23,23
46:17 47:24 30:24 31:3 32:2,7 completely 32:22 53:21 57:5 59:3 creditable 55:4
51:18 32:12 35:7 36:21 complicated 33:22 course 17:20 18:5 creditor 3:12,18,25
52:23 54:16 43:1 44:17 48:4 components 30:19 34:6 46:22 47:18 4:4,7 5:18,21 6:17
57:2,3 49:24 50:11 53:7 concedes 41:15 49:4 52:13 7:4,15 8:4 9:3,10
15:12,21 DAVID 1:15 2:3,13 determine 4:15 6:22 either 13:6 17:3 39:6,20,21 47:11
16:10,24 3:7 53:25 44:17 52:22 39:11 46:23 50:21 ET 1:3
17:2,6 18:3 day 52:23 53:2 determined 4:18 elaborate 44:5 event 39:13
19:13,14,17 days 17:22 46:16 5:14 6:10 28:19 elect 32:6 events 56:18
22:11,11,20 deal 9:20 25:9 41:9 determines 5:3 election 32:3,3,25 everybody 40:17
26:1,9,24 56:14 determining 8:4 53:6 58:22 59:1 49:13
28:4,6 dealing 21:21,21 32:17 elide 28:10 exactly 7:12 14:6
31:1,24 32:1 DEANNE 1:17 2:6 devalued 7:17 eliminate 14:8 37:10 41:9 50:22
33:8 34:9,24 27:15 difference 25:25 enacted 50:1 52:5 example 10:25
35:1 36:1 debate 39:7 different 8:1 10:25 encompass 43:13 39:14 51:20
38:6,7,17,19 debtor 3:20 5:1,5,8 24:5 30:8 31:24 endless 39:19 examples 36:11
40:11 41:1 10:13,16 12:16 35:13 55:23 ensure 19:6 30:13 38:24 51:21
42:16,23 15:7 17:23 18:23 difficult 33:24 41:3 enter 8:22 exceeds 16:17
47:3,13 19:11 23:25 47:10 52:3 55:6 57:23 enterprise 58:8,12 exception 28:25
48:2,10,14 47:11,20 53:17 diligence 9:13 26:13 entire 32:6 58:7,12 29:2,6,6 43:18
50:20 51:15 55:9 40:9 entitled 15:22 28:9 44:4
53:4 debtors 4:9 10:3 disagree 9:4 58:18 exceptions 10:22
55:20 24:6 42:3 53:10 discrepancy 12:23 entitles 28:6 43:24
56:5,14 discretion 8:16 equal 4:1 5:13 37:6 excess 9:11
13:2,8 14:4 debts 15:7 50:11 55:11 equitable 3:17 14:22 exclusive 45:12
21:7,7 22:5 decide 6:7 7:1 20:7 dispute 28:13 39:2 15:16 30:1 excuse 20:3
33:16,18 35:16,19 36:19 distinguishing 41:14 equity 34:16 42:3 exist 18:5
37:7 decided 42:15 district 30:3 35:12 equivalence 7:25 expectation 48:17
39:16,18,25 deciding 49:19 doctrine 44:23 8:14 26:24 44:15 57:22
41:5 46:15 deducting 15:2 45:19 49:22 50:16 51:21 experience 24:23
49:14 53:11 deemed 14:22 doing 9:12 26:9,13 54:7,11 56:25 57:3 explain 17:8
definitely 31:9 38:4 37:23 54:3 equivalent 4:7,15 expressed 52:9
14:23 28:4 definition 15:2 31:1 6:8,23 7:2 8:8 11:3 extensive 41:1
48:23 49:24 definitionally 45:24 dollars 9:16,17 17:3,6 27:2 28:9 extent 16:15 18:19
delay 17:12,14 23:18 35:14,18 30:14 35:23 36:3 27:7 45:21 49:6
Department 1:20 Dulles 37:8,9 erroneous 35:20 F
14:22 15:15 further 53:20 9:12 13:3 14:1 46:2,3,6,9,10,13 44:13 47:2 50:5,7
30:1,16 45:22 future 14:3 16:4 18:12 19:11,13 47:8,14,19 49:8,20 50:12,22,25 51:2,5
51:13 58:18 20:9 21:6,11,17,22 51:4 52:16 53:4,22 51:8 52:8 54:13
56:1,2,9 getting 21:10 34:9 great 12:23 58:15 holds 36:14 incentive 22:20
give 9:24,25 10:14 50:19,23 22:18 23:17,18,20 including 12:20
16:21 19:12,14 guessing 35:22,25 25:1,5,11 33:14 income 31:20
53:8 gives 15:3,4 27:24 H host 10:3 indubitable 4:7,15
15:20 37:6 hand 28:19 40:17 22:21 23:13 36:22 7:2,25 8:8,14 12:2
48:5 49:25 35:15 37:14,18 handle 41:9 40:20 42:6,11 43:2
39:23 42:9,9,22 hands 22:13 I 44:14 49:22 50:16
55:16 happen 41:13 11:19,20 14:6,8,12 54:24,24 55:17,22
48:3 53:7,13 35:20 39:1 44:8 20:8 41:10 51:14 28:5,21 29:13,24 indubitably 5:11
judges 52:14 36:24 39:1 43:4 lien 3:25 4:5 10:15 53:25
31:18 32:14,22 Kagan's 45:1 37:5,6 51:6,8,9,10 majority 25:13,15
52:3 52:6 57:24 53:13 making 8:2 39:17
14:2 16:12 8:24 9:2,15 10:5 20:10,14 21:1,15 limiting 11:16 market 8:3 21:9,13
21:9 23:9 10:10 11:12,22 22:21,22 23:15 liquidate 51:8 24:8 27:3,7 52:7,9
38:25 12:6,11,14,25 24:16,17,22,23 liquidated 7:11 52:11 53:12,15
21:10 49:7 17:18 18:8 19:3,8 55:9 24:5 49:12 marketing 19:20
55:25 19:22 20:6,13,17 knowledge 57:7 LLC 1:3 marketplace 33:25
52:11 23:2,15,22 24:13 knows 31:20 40:14 46:24 59:6
34:11 47:7 28:8 29:7,9,11 language 4:12 11:16 33:22 maximizing 25:23
34:20 42:4,13 43:4,21,23 leave 33:3 38:9 look 11:5 14:5 22:6 35:9 36:5,8,11,16
47:5 left 14:18 looking 9:7 12:9,11 38:23 41:12 42:12
8:2,7,10,12 54:24 55:2,15 56:3 55:9 58:11,17,21 49:5 56:19 mean 4:23 9:16 10:6
11:5 19:19 57:5,13,20 58:16 lenders 21:10 32:8 low 21:2 22:19 23:25 10:11 11:23 12:1
23:3 24:19 58:19 59:3 32:10 33:23 34:17 33:13 53:11,12,15 13:1 21:3 35:22,25
25:4 35:15 54:8 luck 47:23 36:21 49:8,18 51:3
39:5,9 40:12 K lent 34:17 Lumber 58:7 meaning 14:25
52:21,25 Kagan 12:25 13:13 let's 14:5 20:1,13 28:13
55:16,16,21 19:22 20:6,13,17 41:8 M meanings 36:9
56:1 31:17,22 32:20 level 55:21 M 1:15 2:3,13 3:7 means 22:1 57:20
39:8 9:1,4 10:2,7 11:11 occurring 26:3 part 15:19,20 16:22 Petitioner 43:4
24:11 32:9 15:9,15,24 16:3,9 odd 41:20 particular 6:10 7:3 2:4,14 3:8 28:25
16:15,23 17:11,16 offer 39:12 13:9 14:2 23:9 29:3 30:20 40:2
34:4,17 42:2 17:19 18:8,17 19:4 offset 29:22 24:10 26:17 34:19 50:19 51:25 54:1
19:10,22 20:5,9,16 oh 14:14 41:8 56:15 Philadelphia 58:6
45:1 53:25 54:2,18,22 ones 22:21 patent 45:9,10,11 plain 4:12
33:24 34:3 never 43:2,9 44:19 23:12 26:24 18:6,6 20:20 27:22
39:20,22 new 10:19 opposed 13:21 paying 15:1 16:24 27:23 28:2,14
42:25 46:24 norm 25:16 57:11 57:18 32:15 41:15,20,21 47:20
49:9,13,15 57:14 opposite 12:8 payment 16:13 50:11 55:23,24
North 54:4 option 32:10,24 58:18 56:23 57:18,21,25
over-secured 11:1 56:1 point 15:10 24:19
36:23 44:9,10,16 25:12 30:15 31:24 16:20 17:16 25:20 referenced 57:17
47:2 24:4 25:10 33:10 prove 29:4,8 30:3 quicker 13:20 regard 5:23,23 7:24
52:23 promising 15:18 14:6,20 26:22 relationship 21:8
29:1 43:13
44:2
16:12 17:9,20 43:6,13 45:9 50:9 remaining 53:24
39:6
23:10 24:1,12,15 provisions 46:19 reorganization 7:20
53:19
21:1 29:15,22,23 31:6 50:2,3 7:20
22:19 24:21 31:20 32:5 34:2,15 pull 56:4
31:4 36:7,7 replacement 51:9
38:2 48:22 34:23,25 35:10,14 purchase 15:2,3
39:23 41:10
36:2,3 37:17,22 16:22 29:23 51:10
31:16 34:2,6 required 9:13 58:10
14:17 21:20 property's 49:1 pursuant 13:18 requirements 5:7
35:4 proposal 8:7 40:8,8 pursue 3:20 4:9 18:1 28:20,20
17:6
42:15 40:9 56:23 43:17,18,24,24
6:14,21 roles 23:7 Scalia 8:6,17 13:23 security 7:9 12:15 sit 41:8
46:5 rule 11:9 25:17 43:5 14:5 16:14 18:8 18:13,15 34:10 situation 9:5 17:13
ruling 20:22 34:20 22:1 24:24 25:2,4 40:21 41:10 49:7 21:24 23:24 28:19
running 48:8,9 43:21,23 44:2 46:8 see 9:25 11:1,16 47:13 52:18 53:5
S 2:1 3:1 Scalia's 15:9 seeing 11:13 21:7,12 25:15 26:8
7:17,19 13:16 17:19,24 19:1,6,15 26:7,10 27:24 16:12 19:10 20:10 26:20 54:16
15:13 16:3 20:15 25:25 26:10 29:15 32:2,3 47:2 24:12 28:3,22 36:2 Solicitor 1:19
20:5,15,16 26:23 28:5,21 57:17,18 58:4,22 49:2 53:16,17 sophisticated 21:22
25:20 26:7 29:14,21 30:21,23 secure 35:8 selling 18:3,5 19:20 25:8
30:9 31:20 31:2 33:7 37:14,18 secured 3:12,17 4:8 26:6 47:22 48:12 sorry 13:24 18:9
38:8 46:23 41:15,16,20 43:20 5:14 7:15 9:17,21 sells 48:19 38:10,18,23 53:16
49:5,14,18 44:8,9 46:17 47:1 10:13,14 12:15 senior 13:10 39:3,6 sort 25:11 48:1
50:2 52:15 48:22 49:25 50:5,5 13:6,14 14:23 15:8 39:8,12 49:11 55:11
51:4,7,10,15 55:10 15:12,22,24 16:10 sense 8:18 10:12 Sotomayor 8:18,24
46:20 sales 16:2 57:18,19 19:14,25 21:7 22:5 44:23 50:13 51:17 16:1,7,19 17:7,12
37:10 39:22 SARAH 1:19 2:9 27:23,24 28:4,4,6 serving 48:21 25:21 37:12,20,25
46:3 30:8,24,25 31:2,24 set 32:1 43:15 44:7 38:11,18,21 57:5
26:14 27:1 savings 17:4 36:21 37:20 38:6,6 shifted 52:5 45:10,19,20 50:2,6
28:8 30:6 saying 8:19 9:25 39:18,24 40:1,3,11 short 7:17 50:8
35:3 40:24 10:6 11:9 12:10 40:13 41:1,22,25 show 6:20 9:9 16:24 specifically 14:14
45:18,25 14:13,18 22:16 42:16,23,24 43:1 17:1,4,23,25 22:4 28:2 45:2
47:5,12,17 42:5 45:3 44:17 46:15,20,21 54:9 56:24 Speedy 45:3
52:13 says 3:15 6:4 9:20 46:22 48:2,22 showed 20:12 spend 9:12 26:12
23:17,18,20 subset 43:7 44:19 38:7 48:18 54:21 title 14:9 21:11 50:17,19,22 51:4
44:22,24 45:20 talks 32:21 29:15 52:9
subsets 45:5 tax 17:4 told 50:25 typically 5:1 18:21
37:25 substantially 9:10 taxes 13:12 16:13 top 16:24 17:1 19:6 19:11
54:11,23,25 30:19 tell 37:12 40:12 topped 57:2 U
substitute 32:21 tens 35:13,18 traditional 7:19 Uh-hmm 17:18
18:9,9,10,15 41:21 46:14 49:10 testimony 8:11 17:4 55:10
20:2 46:4 suggested 46:22 text 14:6 44:7 treated 32:7,11 unable 55:5
48:7 Thank 11:15 27:13 51:11 57:3 unacceptable 33:12
28:11 42:13 suits 45:9,16 they're 33:20 tried 29:3,7 30:2 undersecured 32:4
supporting 1:21 thing 11:12 42:7 31:15 40:4 understand 10:10
2:11 46:5 46:24 53:14 true 13:17 14:24 11:7,9 17:14 19:3
suppose 5:17,17 41:12 33:2,2 34:19 45:7 understanding 13:4
17:11 23:22 24:1 45:22 51:13,24 truncated 17:22 undervalued 5:19
surprised 56:17 57:21 58:14 trustees 47:6 underwater 35:1
32:14 45:2 47:12 44:16 48:8,25 unreasonably 7:17
T three 3:19,21 14:11 53:16,17 unsecured 12:20
7:19 8:2 27:10,20 39:17 9:12,23 10:17 14:3 45:15 unwilling 56:14
40:18 45:7 48:10 17:10 18:6 26:12 turning 48:11 upset 57:22
15:11 22:4,6 48:25 49:2 50:18 27:12 40:15 49:16 turns 48:19 upsetting 57:11,14
31:8 32:20 53:18 52:14 55:6 56:6,11 two 10:18 32:16 upside 53:19
56:24 taken 58:11 57:10,16 36:9,11 50:1 57:8 use 15:7 33:13
19:13 47:23 Washington 1:8,17 wrong 9:15 11:25 30 57:16
58:4
33:12 35:17 Y
50:18 51:25 years 57:16
12:3,7,8 29:17,19 38:12,15
54:3,3 17:5 22:15,16 41:16 44:2
52:7 33:4 38:17,20 4
33:2 42:2
12:2 15:20 53:9 56:2,9 57:4 43(a) 40:6
21:9 23:25 ways 14:11 28:14 44(a) 39:5 40:6
31:2,5,6,19 30:8 41:13 45(a) 39:5
weigh 34:10 46 2:10
37:16,23 43:1 We'll 3:3 1
48:14,24 we're 37:11 39:21 5
1:13 3:2
53:11 41:9 44:16 11 3:13,17 10:3 5 55:25
56:20 57:11 we've 54:6 27:22 46:19 47:9 53 2:14
wide 23:10 11-166 1:4 3:4
31:1 42:24 1111(b) 32:3,3,25
42:7 142 34:17
12:8 13:24 worrying 22:23 2008 20:22
21:25 worth 6:4 9:19,19 2012 1:9
10:4 22:11,13,22 203 54:4
34:7 36:1 35:5,14 54:20 21 17:22
37:21,22 41:6 wouldn't 6:24 20:23 23 1:9
55:9 21:3,4 32:16 42:4 27 2:7
