IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
AMGEN INC., ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 11-1085
v. :
CONNECTICUT RETIREMENT PLANS AND :
TRUST FUNDS. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, November 5, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioners.
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
MELISSA ARBUS SHERRY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 23
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MELISSA ARBUS SHERRY, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae, 38
supporting the Respondent
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 48
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 11-1085, Amgen, Incorporated, v. The
Connecticut Retirement Plans and Trust Funds.
Mr. Waxman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Our case is about whether the claim of
liability is, in a fundamental sense, class-wide or
individual. The heart of a 10b-5 claim is I bought or
sold in reliance on a misleading statement. The
question at the class cert stage is whether each
individual will have to prove his own reliance directly
on the statement, or whether every -- he can prove
indirectly reliance on the statement by showing that
everybody relied on a distorted market price.
A market price will reflect a statement if
and only if the statement is material and is made
publicly on an efficient market. So, absent
materiality, the market price cannot be presumed to
reflect the statement in question. And the
plaintiffs --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why -- why is
that -- why is that the case? I would suppose, if
there's no materiality, that means that the effect on
the market price just happens to be zero.
MR. WAXMAN: That's exactly correct. And
the point here is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why isn't that
common to all parties?
MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, every one of
the four predicates to the fraud-on-the-market theory,
which is a shortcut that -- that excuses plaintiffs from
proving that I heard the statement and relied on it --
every one of those predicates is common.
Whether the market is efficient is common.
Whether the statement is public is common. Whether the
stocks were bought and sold during the period of market
distortion is common. And materiality is common.
The question is not whether --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So is the falsity of the
statement common as well?
MR. WAXMAN: The falsity of the statement is
common, but it is not a predicate to whether or not you
can prove reliance on a statement indirectly by relying
on the integrity of the market price because, in an
efficient market, material public statements, whether
they are true or false, will presumably move the market
price. And if you're trying to prove reliance on a
false --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can -- can an individual
who has -- it has been deemed in -- in a cert
certification, that an issue is immaterial, could an
individual claimant ever prove it's material?
MR. WAXMAN: Sure. I'm not arguing --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: On the
truth-on-the-market -- the truth-in-the-market defense,
which is the type of defense that you're raising here.
MR. WAXMAN: Yes. Either way. Let me
explain why.
There's no doubt that this Court's standard
for materiality, announced in TSC v. Northway and since
reiterated, is an objective standard. It doesn't depend
on who the relier was.
But the inability to prove to a certifying
judge that class-wide reliance can be -- that class-wide
reliance exists because the statement was material
doesn't preclude a plaintiff like Connecticut
Retirement, which has said it's going to proceed whether
there's a class or not, or any other member of the
class, from coming to court and saying, either, I
directly relied on this statement, and here's my proof
that it's material to the trier-of-fact, because the
decision that the judge makes at certification is not
binding on the trier-of-fact; or even to say, I relied
on the integrity of the market price, and I have proof
that the market price was affected because here are
three investors, they're all reasonable people, and they
say that it was relevant -- important to them in the
total mix of information involved.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Waxman, that's just to
say that you -- a plaintiff can always relitigate the question
of materiality. But at the class certification stage,
isn't it correct that, if the Court holds that a
statement is immaterial, it's immaterial for all members
of the class, and the suit has to be dismissed? Isn't
that right?
MR. WAXMAN: The suit cannot -- that is, the
suit cannot proceed as a class action. Connecticut
Retirement or any --
JUSTICE KAGAN: It can't proceed as an
anything action, can it? I mean, the -- the remedy, if
you had thought that the -- the statement was
immaterial, is not to say, I won't approve a class. It
would be to say, the suit has no merit.
MR. WAXMAN: I -- I think that's wrong. I
think that's conceptually wrong, Justice Kagan, in the
sense that all that the class certification decision
says is that the putative class representative can sue
on his own behalf, but he can't drag everybody else into
the --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, do you mean to say
that a judge, who has just ruled that a statement is
immaterial, is going to keep the case in his court,
litigated by an individual plaintiff, even though he's
just ruled that the statement is immaterial?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, I want to -- I'd like to
come back to the question of why whether, even if
your -- the premise of your question is correct, it
doesn't matter for this case. But let me take one more
run at -- at your premise.
The next thing that would happen if I'm
right, presumably, and the case isn't over, the class
just isn't certified, is the defendant -- you know,
emboldened by the judge's rule, will file a motion for
summary judgment on the grounds that materiality -- the
element of the substantive offense, not materiality, the
predicate to class certification -- has just been
determined in favor of me. That is a very different
question for the Court.
Materiality, as this Court has said, is
fact-sensitive, and it involves a balancing of
credibility of witnesses or of expert opinions, and the
judge at the -- at the class cert stage, has to find
facts and has to make a ruling.
When it comes up on summary judgment, what
the -- if there is a dispute of material facts, what the
judge should do under the law is to say, look, I just
held that I didn't think it was material, but I resolved
disputed material facts, and that's for the jury, and
this case will go to the jury.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you're saying that a
judge on a class certification stage can say, this is
immaterial, the statement is immaterial; therefore, this
can't proceed as a class action. But when a summary
judgment motion comes in, arguing the exact same thing,
the judge will say, oh, it's not immaterial after all,
or it's disputed enough, that the case can -- can
continue?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, in some cases if -- if
the alleged fact is -- you know, that Amgen's president
got a haircut at 10:30, the judge presumably can say
there are -- you know, this is immaterial as a matter of
law. But the vast majority of cases -- this is a
perfect example -- where they have statements that, in
the abstract, extracted from the total mix of
information, look pretty material. These are flagship
drugs.
On the other hand, the evidence we wanted to
introduce and the judge wouldn't hear because, in the
Ninth Circuit, the test is not proving facts, but simply
alleging them --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess the question,
Mr. Waxman, is if it is not immaterial as a matter of
law, at the summary judgment stage, how could a judge
possibly say it is material at the class certification
stage?
MR. WAXMAN: The judge at the class
certification stage is required to weigh competing
evidence and -- and render his or her best judgment. At
the summary judgment stage, a judge is precluded from
doing that.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So the class certification
stage becomes kind of a super merits inquiry?
MR. WAXMAN: No, not at all.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- where the plaintiff has
to -- has to surmount a higher burden on the merits?
MR. WAXMAN: No, no, no. The -- the class
certification stage requires the moving party -- the
putative -- the -- the class representative who is
proposing to arrogate to himself and his method of proof
the fortunes of all the absent class members, whether
they are direct reliers or indirect reliers, tie their
fortunes to his fortune at trial. And the judge simply
has to say, is this a case in which reliance is a common
issue? That is the key through the certification gate
in 10b-5 cases.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought we were talking
about, Mr. Waxman, the materiality of the alleged
misstatement, and I am really nonplussed by your answer
that, if the judge says it's immaterial, that doesn't
end it for everybody. Certainly, it should -- it ends
it for the class; you said that. Should it also end it
for the representative of the class to say, okay, now
I'm going to come back, and this statement, -this
finding of the immateriality doesn't bind me.
Of course, it's going to bind the class
representative. So if it's immaterial, the case ends.
And if it is material, then it is material to everybody
in the class.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, let's
take an easier case. Let's say I'm somebody who bought
Amgen during the relevant period, and they -- the judge
says -- you know, I've heard your -- I've considered
your event studies, and I think that this is --
information isn't material.
There is nothing whatsoever that precludes
me from bringing a suit and saying, here's my
evidence of material -- I directly relied; here's my
evidence of materiality.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How could that be --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you saying that
there -- are you saying that there is a difference
between materiality for the fraud-on-the-market theory
and for direct reliance or that there can be a
difference?
MR. WAXMAN: The -- the standard of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that if there was
fraud on the market, that is a materiality question
addressed at the certification stage, but if the class
isn't certified, the investor can still show that he had
had direct reliance that was reasonable?
MR. WAXMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Am I -- am I right about
that? Or --
MR. WAXMAN: You are -- you are either right
or wrong, depending on how I understood you. Let me --
(Laughter.)
MR. WAXMAN: Let me start with you're right,
Justice Kennedy, you're absolutely right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do the first part.
(Laughter.)
MR. WAXMAN: Okay. Materiality -- the quirk
of this case is that materiality is both -- as all my
friends on the other side agree, an essential predicate
of the fraud-on-the-market theory, that is the essential
predicate of the ability to prove indirect reliance on
the statement through an assertion that the market
price -- that the statement distorted the market price.
Everyone agrees that, if the statement isn't
material, it didn't distort the market price, and
therefore, reliance is an individualized issue for those
who actually heard and detrimentally relied on the
statement.
One of the elements that has to be proven in
a 10b-5 case is reliance, which is what we were talking
about on the class cert stage, and there, materiality is
a predicate for reliance. But even if reliance is
proven, materiality is also an element of a 10b-5(b)
cause of action, and the standard for materiality is the
same.
The real question in this case is what is
the purpose of Rule 23? If you think that the purpose
of Rule 23 is to postpone to the merits everything that
can be postponed without a risk of foreclosing valid
individual claims, we lose. But that's not the purpose.
The purpose is for a court to determine whether all of
the preconditions for forcing everyone into a class
action are present before you certify.
JUSTICE BREYER: Or you can take exactly
what you said and phrase it the opposite way.
MR. WAXMAN: But I wouldn't.
JUSTICE BREYER: You can say ­ No I know is
it the purpose of the certification stage to try out every
element of liability at that stage, rather than waiting
for the trial?
MR. WAXMAN: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, it's not. Good.
Now, once you say that, what you have said
is, you know, it could still be material for some
individual, even though there is no market reliance.
And similarly, a silence going (indicating), some odd
set of words or whatever it is, although it's not false
for almost anybody, for some particular person, it could
seem -- convey something false in some particular set of
circumstances.
So let's try out falsity at the
certification stage, too. In fact, let's try out
everything because we could always think of a few
examples where, despite the fact that -- you know, that
it's only a common issue 99 percent of the time, we can
dream up a situation where it's not a common issue.
MR. WAXMAN: Justice Breyer, the point of
class certification is not to pre-try the merits of the
case. What --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but you are saying with
a cert -- class certification here, if there is no
materiality, there is no class; and you are repeatedly
faced with the question, you are absolutely right; in
fact, there is no case. And so then what you say is,
and indeed, I have a few instances here in which there
could be a case, and I'd say, I bet if we are -- you
know, professorial enough, we could dream up a
hypothetical for anything, where there still is a case.
MR. WAXMAN: The point of the class
certification, as this Court explained in Amchem and
other cases, and as the Rules Advisory Committee notes,
is the question of whether there is class coherence in
the first place. It's not the merits issue. It's
whether it's fair for the class representative to impose
on the defendant the juggernaut of class action and on
the absent class members their fortunes in his or her
hands. And what --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Waxman, that is exactly
right, and that's what we said in Wal-Mart recently, that
the question is a question of coherence; it's a question of
whether the class wins or loses together. And here, for
materiality, the class wins or loses together. If it's
material, it's material as to everybody. If it's not
material, it's not material as to everybody.
And that's just a function of the fact that
materiality, as we've repeatedly said, is an objective
test. It doesn't have anything to do with whether a
particular person finds it material. And where that's
the case, it seems to me that the Wal-Mart test, which
is -- is an issue central to the -- you know, when you
rule on the issue, do you rule on each of the claims in
one stroke? The answer to that is yes.
MR. WAXMAN: Justice Kagan, this Court has
explained more than once, and I am now quoting from
Amchem, that "class" -- "It is class cohesion and only
class cohesion that legitimizes representative action in
the first place." And that question, quote, "preexists
any settlement and therefore a fortiori any litigation."
Now --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Waxman, I was saying
that's right.
MR. WAXMAN: Okay.
JUSTICE KAGAN: There is class cohesion as
to materiality. People win or lose on materiality
together.
MR. WAXMAN: The -- there is class -- with
respect, there is class cohesion, investors cohere into
a class, only when the alleged misinformation was
significant enough to affect the price, thus enabling
the common claim of relying on the misinformation in the
same way. Letting a putative representative through the
certification gate, without showing that key, is like,
on a theory of no harm, no foul because we'll all lose
together --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman --
MR. WAXMAN: -- is like letting --
Justice --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman, there is no
question about 23(a), right? The 23(a) prerequisites
have been satisfied.
MR. WAXMAN: Not challenged in this case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So the only thing is
(b)(3), that is that a question of law or fact common to
the class members predominates over questions affecting
only individual members. The question that predominates
is the question of, were these representations material; if
they were material, then the certification is proper.
If they were immaterial, it's not. It's just -- I don't
understand why this isn't just a clear case of a
question common to the class; that is, the question of
materiality.
MR. WAXMAN: The answer, Justice Ginsburg,
is that the question at the class certification stage --
the predominance question is the reliance element, not
the materiality element.
Everyone agrees that materiality, like
falsity, like scienter, like loss causation, are all
common questions. As this Court explained in Basic and
reiterated last term in Halliburton, in 10b-5 actions,
the question at class certification is whether reliance
needs to be proven directly; that is, individually by
people who heard and acted in response; or whether the
shortcut that this Court authorized in Basic of allowing
indirect proof by proving that the statement caused a
distortion of the market, is the way to go.
There are two tracks, and it happens in this
case that materiality is both an element, which is
common, and a predicate to class-wide reliance.
Everyone agrees that there -- you can't rely as a class
on the -- the challenged misstatement, unless the
statement moved or had the capability of moving the
market price. And that's why the materiality is the
glue that holds --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Waxman, you have a
habit of not pausing between sentences. You pause in
the middle of the sentence, and you end a sentence and
go right on to the next. So I apologize for
interrupting, but --
MR. WAXMAN: Not at all.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- but you leave me no
alternative.
(Laughter.)
MR. WAXMAN: It's the red light.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, I understand.
MR. WAXMAN: The tyranny.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it not the case that one
of the other elements necessary for the
fraud-on-the-market theory would also be decided
conclusively -- for future individual litigants,
namely, the efficiency of the market? A future litigant
will ordinarily claim, I either sold it at a depressed
price or bought it at an inflated price because of the
market's reaction to this particular fraudulent
statement.
MR. WAXMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so you can say the
same thing about the efficiency of the -- of the market
being determined in this preliminary question, as you
can say about -- about the -- the issue here.
MR. WAXMAN: That's absolutely right. And
the same is true for public statement. The way that the
government in responding --
JUSTICE KAGAN: What is that statement,
Mr. Waxman?
MR. WAXMAN: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Because the difference is if
there is an unefficient market, the case goes forward,
and people have to prove individual reliance, and that
means that the class splits apart, and you don't get a
coherent class. So the function of -- of your winning
an argument either on publicity or on the efficient
market is that the class becomes incoherent, that
everybody then has to prove individual reliance.
But that's not what happens when you prove
immateriality. When you prove immateriality, the whole
class falls together because it's immaterial for
everybody.
MR. WAXMAN: That's not correct, and in any
event, that analysis -- that approach is, as I was
trying to say, is like letting the fruits justify the
search.
The question is -- at the time that class
certification is sought, the question is do common
issues predominate? And the question, in a securities
case, is, is reliance in fact -- to quote this Court's
opinion, "in fact, a common issue?"
You also have to prove -- to show that, in fact,
it's a common issue, you have to show that the market
reacted to the statement, whether it was true or false,
whether it was made with scienter or not, whether there
was loss causation or not, the market had to react, and
to do that, you need all three legs of a stool.
The statement has to be material because
immaterial statements don't move markets. If that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman, the -- the
Basic opinion that started all this off, on page 242,
lists materiality as a common question. The materiality
of the misrepresentation, if any, is listed as a common
question, and that made perfect sense to me.
MR. WAXMAN: It makes perfect sense to me as
well, Justice Ginsburg, and I'm not being sarcastic.
Materiality is a common question. Just as are many of
the other elements of a 10b-5 action --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So at certification,
you just assume that materiality -- you don't have to
show it. If it's always a common question, you assume
it, in trying to weigh out the number of -- whether or
not common issues predominate or not.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, the question, Justice --
I mean, for -- if it worked for class certification,
that would be fine. The question is what the purported
class representative has to show to get through the
certification gate to transform an ordinary bilateral
dispute about, you made a false statement, I relied on
it, it caused me to lose money, into something entirely
different, a class of tens or hundreds of thousands of
people, all of whom are proceeding together, all of
their fortunes are married, and the defendant is faced
with the full class, what you have to show.
And you have to show that reliance is a
common issue, regardless of what you have to show down
the road.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman, you seem to
be setting up two determinations of materiality. You
say, in order to certify the class, you have to show
that the misrepresentation was material. And in order
to win on the merits, you certainly have to show that
the misrepresentation was material.
How do those two findings of materiality
differ? How does the finding that you say must be made
at the certification stage differ from the finding that
must be made at the trial?
MR. WAXMAN: They differ temporally, they
differ functionally, and they differ in terms of who
decides it and with what level of finality. They differ
temporally because the first question is, is this
case going to -- which of two tracks is this case going
to proceed?
Is it going to proceed as a -- as a direct
reliance case -- I heard the statement, and I relied on
it -- or is it going to proceed on a theory on behalf of
everybody that whether -- the people who relied on it,
the people who heard it or who didn't hear it, on a
theory that the -- we rely on the integrity of the
market, and the integrity of the market was impaired if
the statement was false.
In any event, there was a price effect. And
there isn't a price effect if the statement wasn't
material and made publicly into an efficient market.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I'm still -- what --
what does "material" mean at the trial level, what does
"material" mean at the certification?
MR. WAXMAN: Material means, at both, as
this Court said, that there is a substantial likelihood
that the information would have been viewed by a
reasonable investor as having significantly altered the
total mix of information available. That is the test.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it's the same
question. It has to be -- if it's established at the
certification stage, it has to be established again at
trial?
MR. WAXMAN: That's correct. Just like the
market efficiency and the public statement and the
market timing. Every one of those predicates has to be
proven to the jury's satisfaction at trial. All of them
are exactly the same in that respect.
May I reserve the balance of my time?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, you may.
Mr. Frederick.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. FREDERICK: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
The class certification process determines
whether the case can generate common answers for all
class members. So for three reasons --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why don't you answer the
question that was asked earlier, if Basic set forth a
presumption, and are you disputing that, at the class
certification stage, a defendant can prove that the
market is inefficient?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why shouldn't we hold
Basic to its position that all of its presumptions can
be rebutted as well, not just efficiency? Why do we set
out efficiency as the one issue that can be rebutted?
MR. FREDERICK: There is a lot to said about
Basic, and let me just start the ball rolling by making
these observations. First, Basic did not try to
distinguish between the requisites of Rule 23 and the
substantive component of the fraud-on-the-market theory.
And that's important because, in that case, the court
remanded for a redetermination of materiality, but it
upheld the class certification order.
So in the context of Basic, the court seemed
to be thinking there was a difference between what
needed to be proved for class certification and what
would need to be proved on the merits of the case.
Now, the second thing to be said is that
Basic needs to be read against the backdrop of Rule 23
and especially this Court's recent decision in
Wal-Mart v. Dukes. Because materiality always generates
a common answer for all class members, it is the
quintessential common issue that does not splinter the
class or cause it to be noncohesive for purposes of
understanding predominance.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Doesn't -- doesn't that
assume that the efficient market theory is always
relevant to materiality? And there might be instances
in which there is subjective reliance, which we inquire
into, that is objectively reasonable, but that does not
involve a fraud on the market?
MR. FREDERICK: Only in a hypothetical case,
Justice Kennedy. And this is the absolute most
important point that I can try to make today. In a
fraud-on-the-market case, the idea of reliance -- the
only theory of reliance that is being advanced is
indirect reliance on the integrity of the market. There
is no other theory of reliance.
Why do we know that in this case? For two
reasons: First, the Connecticut Retirement System could
not be the class representative, if it did not meet the
typicality requirement of Rule 23(a), which the district
court found -- this is on page 25A of the petition
appendix -- and has not been challenged subsequently.
But why doesn't Connecticut have a direct
reliance theory? We know they don't because they have a
fiduciary duty to their investors to apply whatever
theory they have of securities fraud. So we know in
this case -- and this is, by far, clear in the
run-of-the-mine fraud-on-the-market case, that the class
representative will only establish reliance indirectly,
by showing that the integrity of the market was
impaired.
And so their construct is an entirely
hypothetical and theoretical one. It simply does not
arise in the real world of fraud-on-the-market cases.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Frederick, you -- you
say that -- you know, it's a flukey hypothetical
where -- where the -- the issue here would -- would come
up again in a different context in an individual suit.
Let -- let me give you a -- a case that's -- that's not
flukey and hypothetical. That is, it is usually the
case that -- that people who are allegedly defrauded in
stocks rely upon the fact that they bought it at an --
at an inflated price or sold it at a depressed price.
Both of those questions depend upon the efficiency of
the market.
If the market is not efficient, a question
that has to be decided for the class certification case,
the individual investor is not going to be able to say,
you know, that's -- that's why I got cheated, because
the market reflected this false statement, and I paid
more money for the stock than I should have. That --
that is not a flukey hypothetical. That is what will
happen in most individual cases. And yet, that question
of the efficiency of the market has to be decided at the
class certification stage.
MR. FREDERICK: Right, precisely because we
have to know are all the investors standing in the same
position. If the market is efficient and it is
absorbing information into the price, all investors will
have the same question with respect to materiality.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You could say the same
about materiality. If it's immaterial, it isn't
reflected in -- in the market.
MR. FREDERICK: They all lose on the merits,
if there is no materiality. The question about
efficiency, Justice Scalia, and the reason why it is
advanced at class certification is because it serves a
gatekeeping role in determining whether all the
investors can show indirect reliance on the market. If
the -- if the stock is thinly traded, there are no
public analysts, there are no stock reports given about
it, and no one knows exactly why is the price being
determined, that creates exactly the kind of individual
issues that would predominate in a securities fraud
case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so the difference you
assert is that, with respect to the issue here, it will
be an issue in all individual cases; whereas with regard
to the efficiency of the market, it will only be an
issue in -- what, 95 percent of -- of the individual
cases?
MR. FREDERICK: No, the question is: Does
efficiency serve as a means of determining are all the
investors similarly situated? Are they a cohesive
class? If the market is not efficient -- and mind you,
they -- they conceded this question in their answer and
they did not challenge the expert that was put in the
district court on the question of efficiency, so that
question's really not in this case.
But in the case that you're hypothesizing,
Justice Scalia, efficiency serves the gatekeeping
function of determining are all the investors similarly
situated, so that indirect reliance can be a -- a method
of showing that predicate for a common answer to be
determined at trial.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could we --
MR. FREDERICK: Publicity serves the same
function.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could we get a
hypothetical that I actually think could occur, which is
not a truth-on-the-market defense, but a known truth to
the individual person seeking certification. So that is
it's immaterial to that person because they were told
this information by someone and still trading. Would
that defense be available at certification?
MR. FREDERICK: I think it -- where it gets
appropriately done is the adequacy and typicality prongs
of Rule 23(a) because that person has a different
factual basis for attempting to assert a securities
fraud, and that person is not typical of the class and
so therefore would not meet the typicality requirement
of 23(a).
Now, it is possible, certainly, that in
other cases, there might be investors out there who do
have a direct reliance theory, but they are protected by
Rule 23 in a couple of ways. One is they can bring
their own case, and they can say, I directly relied on
Amgen's misstatements and the false things that they
said about their flagship products, and I, therefore,
have my own 10b-5 case. Or if the class is certified
and they think they have a direct reliance theory, they
can opt out of the class.
JUSTICE BREYER: This is true, but I'm --
I'm -- I'm trying to work out what, as I understand it
now, Mr. Waxman's point is -- is basically this:
That -- that why do we use an efficient market theory?
We use it because if the market is efficient and the
statement is public, then someone who bought over the
market is buying in a -- in a world that reflects the
false statement. I mean, that's -- so he -- there was
sufficient reliance indirectly.
All right. So I think his point is, yes, I
can see materiality is something that's relevant to
everybody. Of course, it is, a common issue in the
case. But also, it is a feature of materiality that, if
it wasn't material, then our theory of market
reliance -- market -- efficient markets goes out the
window because you can have all the efficiency in the
world, all the publicity in the world, but still, where
something to a reasonable stockbroker is irrelevant, his
reaction is "who cares?" And therefore, although there
could be special cases, the efficient market theory
plays no role.
Now, I think that's what his theory is, if I
understand it. And -- and I don't hope it is, if I've
got it -- I mean, I hope I got it right. But -- but if
that -- so what's your direct answer to that?
MR. FREDERICK: My direct answer to that is
that materiality still serves as a common answer. All
the investors are going to lose if it is not a material
misstatement that has any effect, and they will win or
they will have the potential to win if it is a
material --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that -- that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The issue -- the issue is
not whether -- whether it's a common question or not.
MR. FREDERICK: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The issue is whether
there's any reason to believe that the -- that the
market reflects reality.
MR. FREDERICK: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the issue.
MR. FREDERICK: But, Justice Scalia, I think
that the issue that you want to decide or you think that
you want to decide is what constitutes the efficiency of
the market, and that is a hotly litigated issue in many
securities cases. It just happens not to be at issue in
this one.
And so the question of -- you know, you've
got a Fortune 200 company, with 1.1 billion shares
outstanding, 9 million traded a day during the class
period, I mean, this is a hugely efficient market for
the stock that is at issue before you.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So you're
saying, in this kind of case, the -- the materiality or
not is not likely to be specially sufficient --
specially significant. In fact, you are going to decide
if it is a common issue, and there is no reason to
import that common issue into the preliminary finding,
even if what I just parroted, we hope, is true.
MR. FREDERICK: Right. What you're ending
up doing, Justice Breyer, is you are front loading. You
are having a mini trial on the merits because the
materiality question here goes into what did the
executives think and mean when they were making certain
statements about clinical trials for their drug. What
was --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You -- you are saying
that, if everyone loses, if it's not material, that's a
common issue, and therefore, the trial court at the
certification stage does not have to determine it.
MR. FREDERICK: No, what I'm saying is that
it is -- because it is a common question, it is not one
to be decided at class certification. Just like
falsity --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure how that's
different from what I said. But in other -- in other
words, you are saying that market efficiency is just
presumed, and everybody wins or everybody loses, and so
you can have a class action, even though the trial judge
is convinced that there is no adequate common market
theory to support the common -- the common injury.
MR. FREDERICK: That's not our position.
Our position is that efficiency and publicity are
gate-keeping functions to determine whether or not the
answer for indirect reliance on the market is a common
question.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Frederick, you say --
you say, you point out, quite rightly, that the
efficiency of the market was conceded -- was conceded
below.
MR. FREDERICK: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was not challenged.
Except that now, in -- in Amgen's brief, there is a
suggestion that the efficiency of the market is a more
sophisticated question. And it's not my note -- binary,
I think is what they said -- it isn't that it's either
efficient or it's not efficient; it depends on other
factors.
MR. FREDERICK: It's a new concoction they
had not argued before this stage of the briefing in
this case, and it's wrong because all investors will
rise or fall, based on whether or not those statements
that may have some subsidiary materiality effect are
going to be able to show that there was some consequence
to the market. And it is that why -- that is why it
is still a common question, even if there are these
subsidiary inefficiencies --
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. So if I've got
this, your answer -- which I am trying to follow it;
don't tell me I'm right if I'm not -- that, with
efficiency of the market, that's not a traditional
element of a tort --
MR. FREDERICK: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- that is something
special to get into this theory.
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: The publicity of the
matter, that is not traditionally a common element of
the tort. That is something special to get into this
theory.
MR. FREDERICK: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: With materiality, it is a
common element of the tort always; it is traditionally
there; it will be litigated, so there is no special
reason to or desirability in or need for litigating at
the outset.
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. And
Congress recognized that there were issues concerning
these various elements. And that's why, in 1995, when
it enacted the PSLRA, it addressed scienter by imposing
a heightened pleading requirement and loss causation,
but it was asked to address materiality and reliance and
it chose not to.
The first bill that was proposed would have
dealt with Basic, and the -- and the Congress voted that
down, and instead --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But there is -- there is a
reason for deciding it earlier, and the reason is the --
the enormous pressure to settle once the class is
certified. In most cases, that's the end of the
lawsuit. There's -- there's automatically a settlement.
Now, one way of -- of certifying the class
is to show, well, you know, it's an efficient market,
and you can presume that everybody in the class relied
on the market. But that's only true if -- if the -- the
statement was material to the market. If it was
immaterial to the market, that isn't true. And you
should not proceed any further, and you should not begin
this -- this class action which, in -- in most cases, is
simply the preliminary to a settlement. There is a good
reason for deciding it sooner.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, Justice Scalia, you
would consign district court judges to having many
trials on the merits because the fact that materiality
is such a highly contextual inquiry --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you have the -- you
have the burden of justifying class certification --
MR. FREDERICK: True.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- is that not correct?
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. Now, suppose
there is some real question of whether or not the causal
chain hasn't been broken, the causal chain between the
misstatement and the movement in price. Don't you have
to prove the integrity of the causal chain?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: At the certification
stage?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes, but that's where
efficiency comes in, Justice Kennedy, and that's why,
when efficiency is contested at the class certification
stage, what comes in are proofs of does information end
up having an effect? And economists do event studies that
try to show the general level at which information will
be absorbed into the market price. That's where that
issue gets contested. It does not get contested on the
question of materiality because materiality looks at the
total mix of information that would be relevant to an
investor, not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You say it's material even
though there is no cause in fact? I don't understand
that.
MR. FREDERICK: What I'm saying is that the
efficiency question goes into the individual stock's
ability to absorb information, both material and
nonmaterial information.
Now, the question on the merits, for which
all investors will either rise or fall together, is was
this company's misrepresentation a material one to the
reasonable investor? And that's why all investors are
going to have the same answer because it's the same
objective inquiry.
The question that you -- you and
Justice Scalia are positing about the efficiency of the
market is one on which there are disagreements among the
lower courts as to how to challenge and how to deal with
that question, but they do not do it on the basis of
materiality.
Judge Easterbrook had a very sound opinion
in the Schleicher case, in which he goes through and he
explains that, when there is a fraud-on-the-market case,
the notion of indirect reliance, where efficiency is
established, really evolves -- devolves down to the core
merits question of materiality. And that is a common
question that -- in which all of the investors are going
to rise together.
But I do want to end by saying that, when
Congress looked at this question, it decided not to deal
with this question of efficiency or materiality. It was
faced with a specter of 300 lawsuits being filed per
year that were securities fraud cases, in 1995, where a
93 percent settlement rate was occurring, an average
settlement of nearly $9 million.
In -- in 2011, the statistics showed that
what Congress did was successful in achieving the
purpose Congress attained. In the year 2011, there were
188 class actions filed; 50 percent of them were
dismissed, mostly on the high-end pleading standards
that Congress had enacted in the PSLRA.
So it's not really for this Court's province
to be imposing policy judgments about what additional
requirements ought to be put on 23(b)(3); Congress made
that judgment. And these proceedings that have gone
along in -- in this way, were perfectly sound by -- both
the district court and the court of appeals.
If the Court has no further questions?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Sherry.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MELISSA ARBUS SHERRY
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MS. SHERRY: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
I would like to start by going back to the
language of Rule 23 and, in particular, the predominance
requirement. The only question is whether common issues
predominate over individual issues.
As several of the justices have recognized,
materiality is an objective inquiry, it leads to a
common answer, and that common answer unites the class,
rather than divides it. If materiality is shown, the
class members can proceed together on the
fraud-on-the-market theory. But --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But as Justice Scalia
pointed out earlier, so is efficiency or nonefficiency.
MS. SHERRY: And the difference --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that -- that
differentiation, articulating it that way, doesn't move
the ball.
MS. SHERRY: I would disagree with that
because the difference is with efficiency and with
publicity. If the -- depending on the common answer,
the class may divide. It may fragment because, even if
the market is inefficient, individual class members can
make out claims of direct reliance. You can rely on an
inefficient market and prevail. You can rely on
nonpublic statements --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the difference
between 100 percent and 95 percent? I mean, most of the
other claims in -- in stock cases are going to be based
on what -- what the market price was when the person
bought or sold. So -- you know, 95 percent instead of
100 percent, that's -- that's the basic difference?
MS. SHERRY: The -- the purpose of the class
certification stage with respect to predominance is to
weigh the common issues against individual issues. And
with respect to market efficiency -- excuse me -- market
efficiency and publicity, those are two matters that --
that either bind the class together or divide them. To
the extent the market is inefficient or to the extent
the statements are not public, they are not all getting
the information from the same source.
JUSTICE BREYER: They are preconditions --
they are preconditions, not related to the merits, that
do, in fact, justify the use of a special reliance
theory. Now, I've said that; of course, so is
materiality.
MS. SHERRY: But --
JUSTICE BREYER: But materiality, unlike the
other two, is part of the element of the basic case,
where it is a common issue in this case -- and in
most -- to everybody.
MS. SHERRY: And that is exactly right. And
the difference is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that exactly right?
Because I am getting the -- facing the problem a few
minutes from now, somebody is going to say, well, why is
that exactly right? I mean, it is a precondition.
MS. SHERRY: I am going to say it's exactly
right because the confusion here is that materiality in
a fraud-on-the-market case serves two purposes. It is a
predicate to the fraud-on-the-market theory, but it is
also an independent, separate element. And what
Petitioners would have this Court do is isolate the two
inquiries when they're really the same question.
It is asking the same question that leads to
the same answer, and it's one that unites the class.
There's -- Petitioners phrase the question as whether
reliance --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you have the same
question, then maybe we shouldn't have this
fraud-on-the-market theory because the whole purpose of
it is -- is to -- to assume that -- that the whole class
was -- was damaged and relied -- because you can rely on
an efficient market. But you can only rely on an
efficient market where there has been a material
misrepresentation.
So maybe we should overrule Basic because it
was certainly based upon a theory that -- that simply
collapses once you remove the materiality element.
MS. SHERRY: The fraud-on-the-market theory,
however, is a substantive theory. It's not a procedural
doctrine. To be sure, one of the practical consequences
is it allows classes to be certified, but it's a means
of proving reliance in an impersonal market in which
investors trade today.
What the Court did in Basic was adapt the
direct reliance concept which envisioned face-to-face
transactions to the impersonal market. And so with
respect to actually proving a fraud on the market,
you're absolutely right, but what we're talking about
here is not whether a fraud on the market can be proven;
we're talking about whether common issues predominate
over individual issues.
And Petitioners still fail to point to any
individual issue that would come into play in a case
where materiality is not able to be shown. None would
because materiality would kill the case for all.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Materiality is a common
issue. Reliance is only a common issue if you accept
the fraud-on-the-market theory. That's the problem.
And you are using the one, which is a common issue, to
leapfrog into the second, to make the -- the efficiency
of the market reasoning something that it isn't.
MS. SHERRY: With all due respect, the two
really do collapse into one. Once you've proven that
the market is efficient and once you've proven that the
statements are public, you're asking the same question.
You can call it reliance, or you can call it
materiality.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that then -- that
imparts the question of 24 years of economic
scholarship -- I think that's how long it's been since
Basic was decided -- has shown that the -- the efficient
market theory is -- is really -- really an
overgeneralization. It could be much more subtle than
that and so you have an advanced theory. But you want
us to ignore that.
MS. SHERRY: No, I -- a couple responses to
that. The first one is the one that my colleague made,
which is that market efficiency isn't disputed here. It
was conceded in the answer at paragraph 199. And not
only is it not -- is it not contested here, Petitioners
actually embrace an efficient market, in
order to pursue their truth-on-the-market defense.
And so my first response would be that's not
something to be addressed in this case. And my second
response is Basic didn't adopt any particular economic
model of market efficiency. If you look at footnote 24
of Basic, if you look at footnote 28 of Basic, the Court
makes very clear that it's not adopting an economic
theory, as far as how quickly or completely the
information is incorporated into the market price.
Instead, it was looking at congressional
intent, it was looking at difficulties in direct proof,
and it was looking at common sense to reach a result and
again to adapt a reliance theory that was premised on
face-to-face transactions to the impersonal market that
exists today.
And so, again, I wouldn't consider market
efficiency in this case. It's not presented. To the
extent there's questions about how the determinations
should be made in terms of levels of generality, that's
something that the lower courts can decide.
Today, all we're talking about is the
materiality component and, again, focusing on whether or
not common issues predominate over individual issues.
It's a comparative inquiry. It requires comparing
common issues on the one hand and individual issues on
the other. And Petitioners have not identified any
individual issues that will actually come into play as
the case is litigated.
The -- going to the -- some of the policy
concerns that were raised, I'd make a couple points.
One is the one that my colleague made. Congress
addressed those policy concerns in the PSLRA, in SLUSA,
and it chose to address them through different means.
The second point I would make is the same
argument could be made with respect to the other
elements of the securities fraud cause of action. If
the argument is you should have to prove it at class
certification because, otherwise, the case is going to
settle, you could say the same thing with respect to
scienter, with respect to falsity, with respect to loss
causation, which this Court in Erica John, of course,
said did not have to be proven at the class
certification stage. So in short, it proves too much.
The third response is that there are
countervailing policy concerns, and there are
countervailing concerns that are actually tethered to
Rule 23 in terms of efficiency.
Excuse me. Petitioners --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you -- do you
agree that you have to show materiality to rely on the
fraud-on-the-market theory to establish reliance?
MS. SHERRY: As a substantive matter on the
merits, yes. It is a predicate.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I -- I don't
understand why that is. If you're trying to show
reliance, and you show that it's an efficient market,
and that the information was -- was public, doesn't that
show reliance without regard to whether the statement's
material or not?
MS. SHERRY: I think, in terms of
transaction causation, what you're -- and reliance is
referred to as transaction causation -- what you're
trying to show is whether or not the information
affected or distorted the market price. And in order to
show price distortion, it does require that the
information be material. And so we accept that in terms
of the fraud-on-the-market theory --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or, to put it differently,
an efficient market is a market that takes account of
material factors, right?
MS. SHERRY: I -- I would say it's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not an efficient
market if it's -- you know -- it's -- who knows, random?
It takes account of material factors.
MS. SHERRY: I would make a minor quibble on
that. I would say that the market takes account of all
public information, but it only -- it only moves based
on material information, so that's exactly right. And
so our issue is not with the predicates for the
fraud-on-the-market theory.
Our issue is with Petitioners equating the
predicates from the fraud-on-the-market theory with the
actual prerequisites of Rule 23. And this Court made it
very clear, in Shady Grove, that the only question at
the Rule 23 stage is whether the prerequisites have been
met. The only one that we're talking about here is
predominance. It's a comparative inquiry between common
issues and individual issues.
And if I can quickly go back to my point
about countervailing policy concerns, as Petitioners
acknowledge, a determination at the class certification
stage is not binding on anybody -- in that case on the
ultimate fact-finder, or in any other case.
And so the problem with Petitioners'
position is that it would require relitigation of the
materiality question at the merits stage to the extent
the class is certified or, if it's not, in every other
case that is brought on the same issue. That doesn't
serve the efficiency purposes that underlie Rule 23.
The -- in terms of absent class members, he
suggests that absent class members would somehow be
prejudiced, but as Your Honor, Justice Kagan, pointed
out, the only prejudice is that they wouldn't be able to
relitigate the very same issue. That is protected by
allowing opt out. That is protected by Rule 23's
adequacy of representation requirement.
And so that's already sufficiently
protected. The most efficient course is to actually
focus on common issues. Materiality is a common issue.
It will result in the same answer for all. The class
rises or falls together. And class certification is not
about only certifying meritorious cases.
In 1966, when the current version of Rule
23(b)(3) was adopted, it was an innovation. It was a
change from the spurious class actions, where it was a
one-way ratchet, where only the defendant was bound. In
the current version of Rule 23(b)(3), you want to
certify class actions that are both meritorious and
those that are not, so that it reaches a binding
judgment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Waxman, you have 5 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. WAXMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
The advisory committee notes to the very
amendment that Ms. Sherry was referring to states,
quote, "A fraud case may be unsuited for treatment as a
class action if there was a material variation in the
kinds or degrees of reliance by the persons to whom they
were addressed."
That is this case. The anomaly of our -- my
friend's position is they concede that materiality is a
predicate for class reliance. They agree that, unless
the statement is material, however efficient the market,
however loudly the statement was published, there is no
detrimental reliance on the integrity of the market
price.
Reliance can only be approved -- and,
Justice Breyer, this goes to your traditional paradigm
case -- in the paradigm case, reliance was proven by the
fact that you heard the statement and you did something
in reliance on it, to your detriment.
The innovation of Basic, and the notion that
Basic didn't say anything about class certification
under Rule 23 is astonishing, given the fact that the
whole reason that the question of the
fraud-on-the-market theory was presented, was the
inquiry about whether there could be -- whether the
traditional bilateral method of proving detrimental
reliance on a statement could be aggregated into a
ginormous class by allowing everyone to say, well, we
relied on the integrity of the market price and a
material misstatement -- a material statement affected
that price.
They said, "could have" --
JUSTICE BREYER: Traditionally, how did that
work? How did that work traditionally? No class, okay?
Joe -- Farmer Jones comes in, you have to show it's
false? You have to show it's material. And then you
show the reliance that he did something on that basis.
MR. WAXMAN: Right. Those --
JUSTICE BREYER: So the materiality was not
part of reliance. Materiality was an element that was
always proved, and then you went on to show reliance.
MR. WAXMAN: Exactly right. And what the
Court in Basic could have said, Justice Breyer, was,
forget the fraud-on-the-market theory; we are going to
absolve -- we are going to say that, for 10b-5 actions,
you don't have to prove reliance directly on the
statement.
We are going to allow you to -- we -- we
posit that investors rely in common on the integrity of
the market price; and if you can demonstrate to us that
a challenged statement moved the market -- if there was
market effect, we will allow you to proceed as a class;
because then the common answer to the common question,
how are you going to prove reliance, is we are going to
prove it all the same way because investors rely on the
integrity of the market price.
Now, the Court in Basic --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It sounds like you are
saying you have to win on the merits of the materiality
question in order to get the class certified.
MR. WAXMAN: You have to prove that there --
the Court explained correctly in Basic, and this -- this
actually goes to -- anticipates my next point, Justice
Ginsburg, the Court in Basic didn't say, well, we're
going to allow you to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me.
MR. WAXMAN: -- we're going to allow you
to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you don't have to
prove it to get the class certified. You only have to
prove it to get the class certified with the benefit of
the fraud-on-the-market theory.
MR. WAXMAN: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is a shortcut to
getting the class certified, right?
MR. WAXMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So this is just a condition
to the shortcut.
MR. WAXMAN: Yes. And in fact, it's a
shortcut to a shortcut. What the Court in Basic could
have said is, if you want to proceed as a class, you
prove to the Court that reliance is common by showing
that the market misstatement affected the market price.
But the Court in Basic went further in the direction of
class plaintiffs and said, you don't have to prove that
directly.
All you have to prove -- we will allow that
to be presumed, if you can demonstrate, without
effective rebuttal, four things: the statement was of a
type that the market would care about; the statement was
made publicly in an efficient market; and the trading
occurred during the period between the misstatement and
the correction --
JUSTICE BREYER: And the reason that we want
to prove it upfront in the 23, rather than wait till the
merits, where it will be argued anyway in exactly the
same way -- the reason that we want to do it first is,
since it's going to be there anyway and going to be
litigated anyway, unlike publicity, unlike efficiency,
but the reason we take this one and run it upfront is?
And it can't be the answer we should litigate everything
before we litigate anything.
MR. WAXMAN: Of course not.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So -- so what's the
answer?
MR. WAXMAN: The answer is that this is
the -- that the point of Rule 23 is to say, you get to
use this very useful and powerful device if you have the
key to the gate. And the key to the gate is showing
that the answer to the question, will reliance be proven
commonly -- not lost commonly, but proven commonly --
is, in fact, yes.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
advanced 25:8 53:3 17:14 47:11 48:13
47:22 advisory 14:17 anticipates 51:6 35:6 4:16 10:21
53:10 affect 16:5 47:11 28:24 29:22 40:2
47:19,20 49:20 52:16,17 a.m 1:14 3:2 Breyer 13:4,7
apologize 18:3 B 29:17 31:18
19:1 agrees 12:9 17:7 appeals 38:15 b 16:19 32:1 33:23
17:20 APPEARAN... back 7:12 10:14 34:4,7,12
51:8,10 52:5 approve 6:23 39:25 41:24 bringing 11:2
47:24 49:21 ARBUS 1:20 2:9 basic 17:9,14 brought 47:17
alternative 18:7 52:14 34:25 40:3,20 buying 29:23
argument 1:13 43:9,23,25,25 C
12:19 amendment 2:2,5,8,12 3:3 49:13,14 50:11 C 1:18 2:1,6 3:1
14:21 48:21 3:7 19:12 50:25 51:5,7 23:11
20:19 Amgen 1:3 3:4 23:11 38:19 51:23 52:2 call 43:4,4
35:14 10:22 45:4,6 48:17 basically 29:19 capability 17:22
48:23 Amgen's 8:20 arrogate 9:25 basis 29:3 37:12 care 52:8
48:9,12 amicus 1:22 39:13 behalf 1:16,18 case 3:4,11 4:2
2:10 38:20 asked 23:19 2:4,7,14 3:8 7:8,14,17 8:10
answer 10:9 29:3 best 9:14 16:17,25 17:18
43:22 23:18 24:19 Assistant 1:20 bilateral 21:4 20:1 22:3,3,6
48:25 28:5,13 30:16 assume 20:21,22 49:19 23:16 24:8,14
33:24 37:6 astonishing billion 31:14 25:22 26:8,10
30:4 45:7,12 47:10 16:3,4,20 17:1 committee concoction
33:16 48:5 49:14 17:4,11,20 14:17 48:20 33:14
40:20 certified 7:18 19:10,11,13,17 common 4:8,13 condition 51:20
41:6 11:15 29:14 19:23 21:1,3,7 4:14,15,17,17 confusion 41:5
43:22 35:5 42:4 21:10,16 23:15 4:20,22 10:4 Congress 34:18
45:7 47:16 51:3,13 23:17,20 24:10 14:1,2 16:6,19 34:25 37:23
51:14,18 24:13,19,21 17:1,9,19 38:5,6,9,12
49:1,10 certify 13:3 25:13,22 26:16 19:24 20:2,4 44:25
53:8,9 21:16 48:12 26:24 27:11 20:13,14,18,22 congressional
14:17 35:7 48:6 29:16 31:15 23:16 24:19,20 Connecticut 1:6
27:22 chain 36:3,3,5 32:13,19 35:4 28:13 30:3,18 3:5 5:21 6:18
29:8 challenge 28:6 35:7,9,14,22 30:25 31:22,23 25:12,17
31:11 37:11 36:11 38:7 32:9,12,20,21 consequence
38:1 challenged 39:5,7,18,19 32:21,25 33:21 33:19
48:6 16:17 17:21 40:4,9 41:12 34:8,13 37:19 consequences
34:21 change 48:9 48:4,5,9,12,23 42:19,20,22 considered
46:5,6 cheated 26:18 49:3,14,21 44:6,17,19 10:23
36:21 4:9 20:20 23:9 51:13,14,18,24 50:17,21,21 constitutes 31:9
23:14 38:17,22 52:3 51:25 construct 26:1
48:19 53:7 class-wide 3:12 53:4,4 36:16,16 43:18
14:7 circumstances 25:21 44:1 comparative contextual
29:7 16:6 18:17 cohere 16:3 44:18 convey 13:19
claimant 5:7 coherence 14:18 competing 9:13 convinced 32:20
7:2,22 15:12 39:20,25 coherent 19:11 component 24:7 correct 4:5 6:13
9:10,13 class 3:15 5:23 cohesion 15:16 44:16 7:13 19:19
10:5 5:24 6:12,15 15:17,24 16:3 concede 49:2 23:3 34:3,6,11
13:8,22 6:18,23 7:2,3 cohesive 28:3 conceded 28:5 34:17 35:24,25
16:8 7:17,22 8:3,12 collapse 43:1 33:4,4 43:17 51:16
17:4,11 8:14 9:10,12 collapses 41:25 concept 42:8 correction 52:11
20:20 9:17,22,24 colleague 43:15 conceptually 7:1 correctly 51:5
10:1,12,13,16 44:25 concerning counsel 38:17
23:1,15 10:19 11:14 come 7:12 10:14 34:18 48:15 53:7
24:10,13 12:16 13:2 26:6 42:16 concerns 44:24 countervailing
27:11 14:4,7,8,15,18 44:21 45:1,14,15 45:14,15 47:9
32:10 14:20,21,22 comes 8:5,15 47:9 couple 29:10
35:22 15:2,3,16,16 36:10,12 50:3 conclusively 43:14 44:24
40:5 15:17,24 16:2 coming 5:24 18:15 course 10:16
40:16 14:21 21:9 40:3,24 due 42:25 either 5:12,24
48:2 23:21 48:10 different 7:23 Dukes 24:18 11:20 18:17
defense 5:10,11 21:7 26:7 29:2 duty 25:19 19:12 33:11
5:24 6:13 defrauded 26:10 differentiation 1:21 element 7:21
13:1 degrees 48:24 39:13 12:18 13:9
15:14 demonstrate differently E 17:5,6,18 34:2
22:20 50:18 52:6 46:12 E 2:1 3:1,1 34:8,13 40:20
24:8,11 Department difficulties 44:5 earlier 23:19 41:8,25 50:8
28:7 1:21 direct 10:2 11:9 35:3 39:10 elements 12:14
35:18 depend 5:16 11:16 22:5 easier 10:21 18:13 20:19
26:13 25:17 29:9,15 Easterbrook 34:19 45:5
42:7 depending 30:16,17 39:20 37:14 emboldened
45:10 11:21 39:17 42:8 44:5 economic 43:7 7:19
50:11,25 depends 33:12 direction 52:2 43:23 44:1 embrace 43:19
depressed 18:17 directly 3:16 economists enabling 16:5
26:12 5:25 11:3 36:13 enacted 34:20
34:15 50:14 52:4 22:14 30:20 ends 10:11,17
24:17 determination disagreements 50:20 entirely 21:6
47:10 37:10 effective 52:7 26:1
32:10,24 disputed 8:9,17 26:23 27:10,23 especially 24:17
27:17 disputing 23:20 31:9 32:17,23 2:3,6,9,13
27:12 28:2,11 distortion 4:17 40:8 42:23 22:25 23:1
12:12 divide 39:18 4:14,25 19:12 36:13
32:13 devolves 37:18 divides 39:6 26:15 27:2 7:4 10:11,18
43:9 differ 21:21,22 doctrine 42:3 28:4 29:20,21 15:4,5 19:14
11:10 19:7 dream 14:2,13 43:9,19 45:25 evidence 9:3,14
23:7 falls 19:17 48:5 foul 16:9 38:16 52:2 good 13:12
40:23
41:3,4 13:19 20:5 four 4:10 52:7 government
50:10 21:5 22:12 fragment 39:18 G 19:3
26:19 29:12,24 fraud 11:13 25:3 G 3:1 grounds 7:20
51:9 32:14 45:9 48:22 27:12 28:10 H
17:9 filed 37:25 38:7 37:16 39:8 generates 24:18 happen 7:16
finality 22:1 41:6,7,17 42:1 getting 40:11 26:22
47:15 21:21,22 31:23 49:17 50:12 49:21 31:11
15:18 22:2 25:4 26:4,25 22:16,24 33:2 10:23 12:12
44:8 34:24 43:15,21 28:25 30:17 give 26:8 49:11
14:10 29:13 33:6,14 34:3,6 glue 17:24 34:21
16:19 flukey 26:5,9,21 34:11,17 35:17 go 8:10 17:16 held 8:8
26:11
35:19 focusing 44:16 36:9,23 goes 19:8 30:6 highly 35:20
40:15 follow 33:24 friends 12:4
36:24 high-end 38:8
51:22
43:25 front 32:1 51:6 holds 6:13 17:24
fortiori 15:19 21:25 37:6,20 38:24 hundreds 21:7
31:14 fundamental 44:23 45:7 28:9
25:4 12:25 13:15 investor 11:15 10:22 32:19 46:12,16 47:21
16:21 18:15 22:22 26:17 37:14 48:15,19 49:9
19:9,14 26:7 36:19 37:5 judges 35:18 50:1,7,11 51:1
27:17 investors 6:6 judge's 7:19 51:6,9,12,17
7:8 individualized 50:17,23 38:11 justifying 35:22
8:13,13 12:11 involve 25:3 juggernaut
9:8 individually involved 6:8 14:21 K
16:24 17:12 involves 8:1 jury 8:9,10 Kagan 6:10,20
20:10 inefficiencies irrelevant 30:9 jury's 23:6 7:1,6 8:11 9:7
28:22 33:22 isolate 41:9 Justice 1:21 3:3 9:17,20 14:24
inefficient 23:22 issue 5:6 10:5 3:9 4:1,7,9,19 15:14,21,24
19:16,16 inflated 18:18 14:19 15:11,12 7:1,6 8:11 9:7 keep 7:8
information 6:8 21:12 24:2,20 10:20 11:5,6 11:12,18,24,25
44:8 28:23 36:12,14 30:24 31:2,6,8 14:6,24 15:14 35:21,24 36:1
25:6 46:1,7,10,21 36:16 40:21 17:3,25 18:6 key 10:5 16:8
innovation 48:8 47:23 48:3 20:17,20,25 kind 9:18 27:17
inquiries 41:10 34:18 39:1,2 24:23 25:5 know 7:18 8:20
44:3 35:20 37:7 42:14 44:17,17 27:20 28:10,15 13:7,14,24
47:6 49:18 47:7,7 48:3 30:23,24 31:2 25:11,18,20
17:15 integrity 4:24 33:23 34:4,7 40:2 46:17
27:13 6:4 22:10,11 J 34:12 35:2,17 known 28:20
32:25 25:9,24 36:5 Joe 50:3 35:21,24 36:1 knows 27:16
49:6,22 50:17 John 45:10 36:7,10,20 46:17
25:23 intent 44:5 judge 5:19 6:2 39:9,9,12,23 L
interrupting 7:7 8:3,7,12,16 40:13,19,25 language 38:25
5:4,7 7:9 introduce 9:4 9:15 10:3,10 43:6 45:18,23 12:1 18:8
lower 37:11 8:6,8,9 9:1,10 31:16 32:4 29:12
market 3:19,20 22:17,18,19 2:9 38:19 motion 7:19
6:4,5 11:13 36:20,25 37:4 10:1 14:22 39:13
13:15 17:16,23 46:14,18,22 24:19 39:7,19 50:19
19:13 20:4,7 49:23 50:4 merit 6:24 moves 46:21
24:24 25:3,9 6:12 7:20,21 merits 9:18,21
34:14 33:20 34:1 24:18,25 27:4 method 9:25 24:16
52:17 35:8,10,11,12 27:6,9 30:2,4 28:12 49:19 new 33:14
43:2,10,16,19 39:6 40:17,19 minor 46:19 nonmaterial
21:6 27:8 49:22 50:18,19 49:2 50:7,8 misleading 3:14 note 33:10
50:20,24 52:1 51:2 misrepresenta... notes 14:17
markets 20:10 8:22 9:8 34:8 37:4 41:22 notion 37:17
45:9 market's 18:19 matters 40:8 10:9 17:21 November 1:10
37:7 39:4 43:17 plays 30:12 38:25 40:5 problem 41:1
50:8 please 3:10 19:25 20:24 proceed 5:22
50:2 pausing 18:1 pointed 39:10 47:21 process 23:15
people 6:6 15:25 47:21 preliminary products 29:13
35:4 21:8 22:8,9 policy 38:11 35:15 14:13
43:1,2 26:10 44:23 45:1,14 premise 7:13,15 prongs 29:1
39:24,24 40:2 positing 37:9 16:15 47:2,4 44:5
23:11 period 4:16 possibly 9:10 pressure 35:4 protected 29:9
10:22 31:16 postpone 12:23 presumably 5:1 47:23,24 48:2
43:20 person 13:18 potential 30:21 presume 35:9 4:23 5:2,7,18
51:3 15:9 28:21,22 powerful 53:1 presumed 3:23 12:6 19:9,14
41:9,13 42:15 precondition pretty 9:1 52:5,13
45:17 46:25 preconditions pre-try 14:4 50:9
48:17 15:18 41:7 45:22 18:18,18 22:13 53:3,4
6:11 7:9 9:20 predicates 4:10 27:3,16 36:4 province 38:10
42:5,10 32:3,12 33:1 35:3,3,16 39:20 40:15 25:14 29:5
33:10,21 36:2 49:16 52:12,15 41:14 42:5,8 34:21 39:1
45:1 37:8,12,19,20 reasonable 6:6 44:7 45:20,25 requirements
23:4 41:10,11,13,16 25:2 30:9 37:5 49:3,6,8,10,12 requires 9:23
29:22 43:3,7 47:3,15 reasoning 42:24 49:20 50:5,8,9 44:18
43:3 49:16 50:21 reasons 23:17 50:14,22 51:25 requisites 24:6
51:3 53:3 25:12 53:3 reserve 23:8
30:8 17:9 26:13 48:17 52:7 5:25 6:3 11:3 respect 16:3
34:7 38:16 44:12 rebutted 24:1,2 12:12 21:5 23:7 27:4,21
40:8 question's 28:8 recognized 22:6,8 29:11 40:5,7 42:10
quibble 46:19 34:18 39:3 35:9 41:19 42:25 45:4,8,9
52:9 47:8 redeterminati... relier 5:17 Respondent
13:1 quite 33:3 reflect 3:20,24 relitigation response 17:13
38:6 40:4 quote 15:18 20:1 reflected 26:19 47:14 43:21,23 45:13
48:22 27:7 rely 17:20 22:10 responses 43:14
47:18 31:4 41:19,20 45:19 Retirement 1:6
raised 44:24 regardless 21:12 16:6 right 6:16 7:17
16:7 random 46:17 17:10 remedy 6:21 14:9,25 15:22
6:11 7:12 react 20:7 reliance 3:14,16 reports 27:15 33:25 36:1
9:7 reacted 20:5 3:18 4:23 5:2 representation 40:23,25 41:3
12:21 reaction 18:19 5:19,20 10:4 47:25 41:5 42:11
15:1,1 30:10 11:9,16 12:6 representations 46:14,22 50:6
16:15 read 24:16 12:11,15,17,17 16:22 50:10 51:18
real 12:21 26:3 13:15 17:5,11 representative rightly 33:3
36:2 17:19 19:9,14 7:3 9:24 10:13 rise 33:17 37:3
19:23,24 reality 31:4 20:1 21:11 10:17 14:20 37:21
20:13,15 really 10:9 28:8 22:6 25:1,7,8,9 15:17 16:7 rises 48:5
37:18 38:10 25:10,18,23 21:3 25:13,23 risk 12:24
22:2,25 41:10 43:1,10 27:13 28:12 require 46:9 road 21:13
26:15,22 43:10 29:9,15,25 47:14 ROBERTS 3:3
28:1,5,7 reason 27:10 30:6 32:25 required 9:13 4:1,7 20:20
31:13 31:3,22 34:15 34:22 37:17 requirement 23:9 38:17
48:15 search 19:22 50:3,4,5,9 specter 37:25 48:21
second 24:15 showed 38:4 splinter 24:20 statistics 38:4
15:12,12 25:20 27:18 53:2 8:3,12 9:9,11 stockbroker
25:14 29:3 31:11 shown 39:6 9:13,15,18,23 30:9
38:25 38:1 45:5 42:17 43:9 11:14 12:16 stocks 4:16
47:2,4 see 30:2 side 12:4 13:8,9,22 17:4 26:11
48:7 seeking 28:21 significant 16:5 21:22 23:1,21 stock's 36:24
49:15 sense 3:12 7:2 31:21 26:24 32:10 stool 20:8
20:15,16 44:6 significantly 33:15 36:8,12 stroke 15:13
28:10,16 30:18 26:2 35:15 standards 38:8 subsequently
41:24 standing 27:1 25:16
14:6 settlement 15:19 Solicitor 1:20 4:20,21,23 45:21
31:19 35:6,15 38:2,3 somebody 10:21 5:20,25 6:14 subtle 43:11
Shady 47:3 41:2 6:22 7:7,10 successful 38:5
37:22 shares 31:14 sooner 35:16 8:13 10:14 sue 7:3
Sherry 1:20 2:9 sophisticated 12:7,8,9,13 sufficient 29:25
39:11,15 40:4 sorry 6:9 19:6 19:2,4 20:5,9 sufficiently 48:1
42:1,25 43:14 4:19 5:4,9 6:9 22:14 23:4 suggests 47:20
27:5,10 45:21 46:4,15 11:5 23:18,24 26:19 29:22,24 suit 6:15,17,18
28:10 46:19 48:21 28:15,18 39:9 35:11 49:4,5 6:24 11:2 26:7
31:2,6,7 short 45:12 39:12 49:11,20,23 summary 7:20
37:9 shortcut 4:11 sought 19:24 50:15,19 52:7 8:5,14 9:9,15
41:15 17:14 51:17,21 sound 37:14 52:8 super 9:18
46:12,16 51:23,23 38:14 statements 4:25 support 32:21
show 11:15 20:3 sounds 51:1 8:24 20:10 supporting 1:22
21:10,11,12,16 special 30:11 39:22 40:11 suppose 4:2 36:1
34:20 36:14 45:19,24 specially 31:20 states 1:1,13,22 42:3
45:25 46:2,7,9 31:21 2:10 38:20 surmount 9:21
10:24 trier-of-fact 6:1 unsuited 48:22 18:5,9,11,21
52:18 32:4 33:11 31:24 35:10,12 use 29:20,21 23:3 48:16,17
thinking 24:12 Trust 1:7 3:5 useful 53:1 51:4,10,16,19
42:11,13 third 45:13 truth-in-the-... Waxman's
47:5 thought 6:22 5:10 V 29:19
22:2 three 6:6 20:8 43:20 valid 12:24 19:2 35:7
45:16 time 14:1 19:23 trying 5:2 19:21 version 48:7,11 weigh 9:13
47:19 23:8 20:23 29:18 viewed 22:21 20:23 40:6
today 25:6 42:6 46:7 We'll 3:3
48:15,19 tort 34:2,9,13 21:20 22:3 waiting 13:9 51:7,10
total 6:8 8:25 25:11 40:8,20 Wal-Mart 14:25 we've 15:7
16:9 22:3 typical 29:4 37:22 43:12 win 15:25 21:18
22:7,10 trade 42:6 typicality 25:14 48:11 51:24 30:20,21 51:2
25:8 traded 27:14 29:1,5 52:12,15 window 30:7
31:15 tyranny 18:11 wanted 9:3 winning 19:11
trading 28:23 Washington 1:9 wins 15:2,3
52:9 U 1:16,18,21 32:18
34:5,10 traditional 34:1 ultimate 47:12 wasn't 22:14 witnesses 8:2
40:16 49:9,19 underlie 47:18 30:5 words 13:17
traditionally understand Waxman 1:16 32:17
34:8,13 50:1,2 16:25 18:10 2:3,13 3:6,7,9 work 29:18 50:2
44:2 transaction 46:5 29:18 30:14 4:5,9,21 5:8,12 50:2
45:20 46:6 36:21 45:24 6:10,17,25 worked 21:1
47:1 transactions understanding 7:11 8:19 9:8 world 26:3
50:12 42:9 44:8 24:22 9:12,19,22 29:23 30:8,8
transform 21:4 understood 10:8,20 11:11 wouldn't 9:4
18:23 trial 10:3 13:10 unefficient 19:8 12:2 13:6,11 47:22
45:8 21:23 22:17 United 1:1,13,22 14:3,15,24 wrong 6:25 7:1
32:2,9,19 unites 39:5 16:2,11,12,14
37:25
2:14
1:10 48:16
9 31:15
31:14 93 38:2
3:13 10:6 95 27:24 39:24
17:10 40:2
29:14 99 14:1
12:18
8:21
39:24 40:3
1:4 3:4
1:14 3:2
53:9
38:7
48:7
43:17
34:19 38:1
31:14
38:4,6
1:10
2:7 12:22,23
29:10
45:16
52:13,25
47:24
16:15,15
29:2,6
38:12
43:7,24
20:12
25:15
43:25
