IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
LAMAR EVANS, :
Petitioner : No. 11-1327
v. :
MICHIGAN :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 6, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DAVID A. MORAN, ESQ., Ann Arbor, Michigan; on behalf of
Petitioner.
TIMOTHY A. BAUGHMAN, ESQ., Detroit, Michigan; on behalf
of Respondent.
CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DAVID A. MORAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
TIMOTHY A. BAUGHMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae, 44
supporting the Respondent.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID A. MORAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 11-1327, Evans v. Michigan.
Mr. Moran.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID A. MORAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MORAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
A long and unbroken line of this Court's
precedents stand for the principle that a judge's final
determination that a defendant is not guilty is a final
determination of an acquittal for -- for double jeopardy
purposes, even if that determination is wrong as a
matter of law or as a matter of fact. And even if --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do we give credence to
how the judge labels what the acquittal is?
MR. MORAN: No. No. This Court must
determine -- whatever its label, what has the judge
done. Has the judge made a determination that the
government has failed to prove its case, as in Martin
Linen, or has the government -- has the judge made a
determination of something else, as in Scott, for
example, pretrial delay.
Now, the Michigan Supreme Court --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But once -- once the judge
determines, quite erroneously, that it has to be a
dwelling -- midway during the trial, I'm the judge, I
consider this has to be a dwelling, is there any way I
can make that point, make that ruling, without invoking
double jeopardy?
MR. MORAN: Well, you could reserve that
ruling to the end of the case. You could make a ruling
as to the jury instructions without -- or what the jury
instructions are going to be without applying them to
the facts of the case; in other words, without making a
determination of the defendant's guilt or innocence.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but if I persist in
that view, there's nothing the government can do?
MR. MORAN: The government can try -- we
learned from Smith -- try to get you to reconsider that
view before the defendant puts on his case. But once
the defendant -- once the judge has made a final
determination that the defendant is not guilty, even on
an erroneous view of the law, this Court has held
multiple times that that is a final determination --
that is an acquittal, for double jeopardy purposes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because, I suppose, the
judge is the government, too.
MR. MORAN: Exactly. Once -- once the
government --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So whether the unfairness
adheres in the prosecution or in the judge, the guy's
been treated unfairly.
MR. MORAN: If a state chooses,
Justice Scalia, to vest acquittal power in its judges,
it must accept the double jeopardy consequences of that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even when the defendant
interjected this issue and the defendant urged the judge
to make this incorrect notion that you have to negate
the higher crime, in order to convict of the lesser
crime, it was the defendant that led the -- the trial
judge into error. The trial judge didn't come up with
this on his own.
MR. MORAN: The judge came up with this,
Your Honor, on defendant's motion, that's correct. But
it was actually supported by the jury instructions that
were in use. And actually, it was supported by the
structure of the statute in question. The statute in
question, under which Mr. Evans was charged, explicitly
said that the building other than one specified in the
preceding subsection --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you're not arguing
that that was the correct charge that --
MR. MORAN: No. We're precluded now from
arguing that that's correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you don't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel often encourage
judges to do the wrong thing. In fact, in every case,
there is one of the two counsel urging the court to do
the wrong thing; right?
MR. MORAN: Yes, Justice Scalia. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what the adversary
system consists of.
MR. MORAN: Yes. And in Sanabria, this
Court noted that point exactly, that all acquittals,
whether they're by the judge or by the jury -- or I
should say almost all acquittals, some are sua sponte --
almost all acquittals, whether by judge or by jury, are
upon invitation of defense counsel.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- could a state
provide a procedure where, if a judge makes a critical
ruling mid-trial, that at the request of the opposing
counsel, jury proceedings are suspended for 48 hours,
and the aggrieved party can run to the court of appeals
to get a mandate?
MR. MORAN: I don't think the state could do
that, Justice Kennedy, because of Smalis.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because of?
MR. MORAN: Because of Smalis. So that was
essentially the situation in Smalis. You had a bench
trial. The judge grants a demurrer. He says the
evidence is insufficient. And then the prosecution
attempted to run to the Pennsylvania appellate court.
And this Court said it couldn't do that because that was
a final determination. I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in my hypothetical,
the state said -- and this isn't a final determination;
the ruling doesn't become final until you have 48 hours
and go to the court of appeals.
MR. MORAN: Well, I think a state could
make -- could -- investing acquittal power in judges
could put limitations on that acquittal power.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How would they do that?
I'd like to go back to Justice Kennedy's question. It's
easy when you have a jury because what happens is a
judge can decide whether, at the end of the
prosecution's case, he's going to dismiss for
insufficiency, or he can give it to the jury, and if the
jury renders a verdict, set it aside.
Jeopardy attaches only if the judge
dismisses the case after the prosecution's judgment, but
not if he sets aside the verdict, correct?
MR. MORAN: Well, jeopardy attaches both
ways, but a retry -- a reversal is possible in the -- in
the latter.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In the latter.
MR. MORAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what can a state
do -- some have done something -- to ensure that, even
if jeopardy has attached, that there can be a valid
reversal; if the judge is wrong on a legal theory.
MR. MORAN: Well, the easy --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So give us an example of
what, in a judge trial, a state could do to ensure that
a legally wrong judgment is still reversible.
MR. MORAN: In a bench trial, Your Honor?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In a bench trial. What
could it do?
MR. MORAN: I think if -- if in a bench
trial, if the judge has the power to acquit or convict
and the judge acquits, I believe the Double Jeopardy
Clause would preclude the state from coming up with a
clever mechanism allowing -- for allowing appellate
review. The Court, of course -- I mean, the state
could, of course --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought there were, in
your briefs, some examples -- in someone's brief, there
were some examples --
MR. MORAN: In a jury trial with a judge --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, forget about a jury
trial. Let's go to the bench trial.
MR. MORAN: I don't know what --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're not helping your
argument by saying there's nothing a state could ever
do.
MR. MORAN: Well, they could withdraw the
power of judges to grant acquittals or convictions in
the first place. In other words, they could abolish
bench trials, which, as the Court noted --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you know something,
Counselor? You're sinking your hole deeper. You're not
helping yourself in this argument because how does that
help the system?
MR. MORAN: Well, with all respect, Your
Honor, the Double Jeopardy Clause here transcends the
state's --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't disagree. You
mean no state could ever say to a judge, given --
given -- render a verdict on the prosecution's theory,
and then set it aside? If you think the theory is not
legally --
MR. MORAN: After Smith, it's clear that
immediate reconsideration is a possibility. And if a
state set up a system, as in Lydon v. Municipal Court,
where you have essentially a magistrate making a
preliminary determination, and then it goes to a higher
judge who goes trial de novo, that, of course, is
permissible.
But if the judge is the final arbiter -- in
other words, if the judge sits in the place of the jury,
this Court has said, over and over again, that a judge
verdict is equivalent to a jury verdict, for purposes of
Double Jeopardy.
So, yes, courts -- a state could set up
systems, in which judges have less power than a jury
does. I'm not aware of any state that's done that. I
am aware of what Nevada has done, which has said that
judges can't grant mid-trial directed verdicts. And
that's the way in a jury trial.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You keep saying,
"mid-trial."
MR. MORAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What -- what is not
mid-trial? Some states require a judge to wait.
MR. MORAN: Yes. Yes. Nevada.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, what happens in
those states?
MR. MORAN: Well, in that case, then there
is no problem because, if the judge makes a
determination after the jury verdict, then the -- then
that can be appealed under Wilson.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I keep talking, not
about jury verdicts, but about bench trials. I want to
focus on the bench trial process.
MR. MORAN: If -- but if the judge at the
end of a trial renders a solemn, formal, final verdict,
"I find the defendant not guilty," in a bench trial, I
don't see a mechanism for -- for the state to appeal
that determination, consistent with the Double Jeopardy
guarantee, unless the state has set up a system as in
Lydon -- as Massachusetts did in Lydon. But short of
that, a judge's determination is entitled to the same
respect.
JUSTICE ALITO: If, in the middle of a
trial, a judge grants a mistrial and says -- I'm sorry,
grants an acquittal and says, I think that prompt
prosecution is an element of the offense, and there
wasn't prompt prosecution here. Now, could there be a
re-prosecution in that situation?
MR. MORAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Even though the judge says
he thinks that that's an element of the offense?
MR. MORAN: Because no part of my argument
depends upon the judge's labeling. What the judge has
done in that case is -- is a mid-trial dismissal that he
called an acquittal, but it was actually a dismissal for
another purpose. That's exactly what Scott was talking
about. And that is like Scott, where the judge may have
characterized what he had done as acquitting the
defendant, but he --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, he saw a phantom
element, and -- and that's what happened here, too,
isn't it?
MR. MORAN: Well, pretrial delay is not an
element of the offense. Pretrial delay is another part
of criminal procedure in this state.
JUSTICE ALITO: And this -- and the fact
that this was not a dwelling wasn't an element of the
offense, either.
MR. MORAN: But it is clearly related to the
offense. And then Scott clarified what Martin Linen
meant. Martin Linen was an attempt to distinguish
between cases in which the judge makes a ruling relating
to guilt or innocence and a ruling designed to serve
some other purpose.
The problem with the line the Michigan
Supreme Court drew here is that it is completely
impossible to administer. And if I can give a couple of
examples, the Lynch case, from the Second Circuit, was
an effort by one circuit to attempt to administer -- to
follow the Maker line, and you get questions that are
completely unanswerable in that case.
Is bad intent simply a gloss on the
willfulness element? In which case, all you've done is
misconstrue an existing element. Or is it, as the
dissent claimed in Lynch, a -- a new element? And these
are questions like how many angels can dance on the head
of a pin. They're simply semantics. It's all labeling.
There is no -- there is no substance there.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, there -- that's a
problem. But you're -- to come back to my earlier
question, your -- what is your answer? Your answer is
that, if the judge grants an acquittal based on the
failure to prove anything that the judge thinks the
prosecution has to prove, that's an acquittal. Is that
fair?
MR. MORAN: Yes. And -- and I fall back to
this Court's footnote in Scott, that courts are
perfectly capable of distinguishing between rulings
relating to guilt and innocence and rulings designed to
serve other purposes. So if you have a devious judge
who's determined to package a prosecutorial misconduct
ruling as an acquittal, I have no doubt that an
appellate court would be able to -- to smoke that out.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, to come back to the
argument we just heard, so suppose the judge grants a
mistrial for failure to prove an action within the
statute of limitations, even though no statute of
limitations defense was raised. Would that be -- would
that be an acquittal?
MR. MORAN: Only -- I think my answer to
that would depend on how you rule in the prior case,
depending on whether the statute of limitations is -- is
something the prosecution has to prove in order to
establish guilt.
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. Assuming, for
the sake of argument, that it's not an element -- it's
not really an element, but the judge thinks it's an
element.
MR. MORAN: Well, if it -- if it's something
that could result in an acquittal, if it is -- if the
defendant raising the statute of limitations is
something that could result in an acquittal -- because I
come to Burks, where Burks says an affirmative insanity
defense, the prosecution fails to disprove that, that is
an acquittal -- when the appellate court concluded that
there was failure to disprove the affirmative insanity
defense.
That shows that that language in Martin
Linen can't be taken as if it was construing the terms
of an easement. You have to look at what was Martin
Linen getting at. And Martin Linen is trying to
identify those rulings relating to guilt or innocence,
which include affirmative defenses or --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure I understand
the rationale for your answer to your own hypothetical.
The judge characterizes a prosecutorial -- or a
misconduct incident as a grounds for acquittal; it
really isn't. Then you said the court of appeals could
straighten that out?
MR. MORAN: Yes. That's Scott.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: On what rationale -- so
what's the general principle that allows the court of
appeals to do this sometimes and not others?
MR. MORAN: If the judge has made a ruling
going to the defendant's guilt or innocence and finding
that, as in Martin, examining the government's evidence
and finding that they have failed to prove the
defendant's guilt, final. There can be no appeal. But
if the judge has made a ruling that is designed to serve
some other purpose, so if the judge, in my hypothetical,
were to say --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, I thought -- I thought
it was the judge just subjectively does this, but he
doesn't say any -- he just characterizes it as an
acquittal?
MR. MORAN: That's -- that's a case,
actually, quite a bit like some of the cases, and it
demonstrates the problem of -- of the Michigan Supreme
Court's line. So example, in Martin Linen, all the
judge said is, this is one of the weakest cases I've
ever seen.
Presumably, if the Respondent were to win,
they would be entitled to appeal a determination like
that to at least try to convince the appellate court
that the reason the case seems so weak to the trial
judge was that the trial judge had added an extra
element.
Same thing in Smalis, where the judge simply
said -- he granted a demurrer by looking at the
prosecution's case and saying that, I find the evidence
insufficient. And, in fact, in Smalis, the --
Pennsylvania tried to argue that the judge had actually
heightened the burden for mens rea for third-degree
murder.
And -- and so -- you know, they would be
entitled to make these arguments. And so then we get
into questions of, in granting acquittals, would judges
have to explain all of the elements --
JUSTICE BREYER: I see the problem, but I am
still back to where Justice Kennedy was -- and that is
my own failing here. I didn't quite understand. I
thought, when you grant a dismissal and you dismiss the
case in the middle of the trial because the prosecution
was brought too late, all you're doing is, in the middle
of the trial, granting something you should have granted
in the first place before you impaneled the jury.
But I thought that, in Fong Foo, Judge
Wyzanski had dismissed the case after empanelment
because he wrongly thought that the U.S. attorney had
been talking to a witness or a juror or something at
lunch time and that he had -- and that's an acquittal.
And I thought Justice Harlan, for the Court, wrote
Double Jeopardy, Jeopardy attached, you can't try him
again. And I didn't think the Court ever overruled
that. That -- what -- in where?
MR. MORAN: Fong -- Fong Foo has not been
explicitly overruled, but I think it has been limited by
Scott.
JUSTICE BREYER: So Scott says that even in
judge-wise -- Scott says Fong Foo was wrong, that that
-- because the reason that Charlie Wyzanski dismissed it
is he has this idea of a -- the AUSA doing something
improper at lunch. And -- and that's -- that's -- now,
on your theory -- on the theory you just enunciated,
there would -- there would -- Double Jeopardy wouldn't
protect against the second indictment, right?
MR. MORAN: Well, Justice Breyer, Fong Foo
actually listed two reasons why the trial judge granted
the directed verdict. One was prosecutorial misconduct.
The judge apparently thought that the prosecutor had
been speaking with a witness.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. MORAN: But the second one was the total
lack of credibility of the prosecution's witnesses.
And -- and when the case came --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Yes. That's --
MR. MORAN: When the case came to this
Court, the concurring Justice said, the second one is
good for Double Jeopardy purposes, but I would make
clear that the prosecutorial misconduct rationale is
not.
That part -- I think that concurring opinion
has been effectively adopted in Scott, so that a finding
of prosecutorial misconduct on dumping this case
mid-trial, yes, the prosecution gets another bite at the
apple, assuming that it's done on -- on the defendant's
motion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One -- one of the
reasons we've said that underlies Double Jeopardy clause
is to prevent overbearing conduct by the government.
That's not an issue here, is it? You said the
government gets one fair shot at conviction. And if
there has been a legal error below, they haven't had a
fair shot.
MR. MORAN: Mr. Chief Justice, I would
respectfully disagree. Mr. Evans was hauled into court
by the state. He was acquitted, in our view, by the
judge who is representative of the state, who was
relying on the standard jury instructions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, this business
about the judge being a representative of the state, I'm
not sure how far that gets you. The government is one
of the adversaries appearing before the judge, and the
judge is not supposed to take the government's side. So
he is not really a part of the government. And it does
seem to me that, if they had been thrown out of court
because of a legal error, that's not a fair shot.
MR. MORAN: Well, I understand that view,
Mr. Chief Justice, but it's contrary to a lot of this
Court's cases. I think this Court would have to review
a lot of its cases, most recently, Smith and Smalis and
Martin Linen, all of which said that a legal error
affects the quality of a judgment -- and Scott also
specifically said this, a legal error affects the
quality of the judgment, but not it's finality for
Double Jeopardy purposes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I suppose the
question --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I know that --
I'm just saying that that particular rationale for the
Double Jeopardy Clause is not applicable in this case.
MR. MORAN: Well, I think it is because a
citizen has been brought into court, expects to go
through one trial, and they are told, sir, I am finding
you not guilty. And then to find out later -- for the
state to come back later --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's looking at it
from the defendant's perspective. We have said that the
government should have one fair shot at conviction. And
it seems to me that, if they lose because of an error,
that's not a fair shot.
MR. MORAN: Your Honor, I come back to the
language in Martin Linen, which talks about what the
purpose of the Double Jeopardy Clause is, is to protect
defendants against continuing government oppression.
And that oppression arises from the anxiety of having to
go through it again and again.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But isn't it -- isn't it
hard to argue with a notion that your client has gotten
a windfall here? I mean, this is not continuing
government oppression and -- and -- you know, that's --
that -- that suggests a real harm on the part of your
client. I mean, here because of a legal error, your
client walks away the winner when he shouldn't have.
MR. MORAN: Well, Your Honor, without the
error, the trial would have -- would have continued.
But I think that argument, respectfully, proves too much
because there are lots of these cases in which legal
error was made. And so -- in Rumsey, you could say
exactly the same thing about Mr. Rumsey.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, I think that's right.
This is -- this is an argument against this whole line
of cases, that this whole line of cases essentially has
set up a system where the real purposes of the Double
Jeopardy Clause do not apply and where defendants walk
away with windfalls. And I guess what's your best
argument against that proposition?
MR. MORAN: Well, once you accept the
equivalency of a judicial acquittal to a jury acquittal,
you have to accept that both actors are capable of
error. Both actors are human. Juries are incapable --
are capable of making legal errors, as well as factual
errors. They are capable of misunderstanding the
instructions. In fact, they are capable of being
misinstructed.
Had the judge not granted the directed
verdict here, she presumably would have instructed the
jury the same way, and the jury would have also
acquitted Mr. Evans for the same reason.
And so to try and tease out legal and
factual errors, especially when -- and often, there are
mixed questions of fact or law that are at stake here --
I think, is a losing proposition. I think it -- I think
the Court has decided to draw a firm line, recognizing
that an acquittal is special. An acquittal is the most
fundamental thing that can happen.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could a system say, if
you have Double Jeopardy looming in -- in -- in the
case, then arguments like the one that the defendant
made and the judge bought have to be made pretrial, and
if they are not made pretrial, they are waived. I mean,
here, the -- the -- the case was ongoing when the
defendant made this suggestion, as opposed the system
had built into it a requirement that defendants that are
going to make this kind of plea do it pretrial.
MR. MORAN: Justice Ginsburg, I don't think
it would have been right for Mr. Evans to make this
argument pretrial because it was only with the
prosecution's proof that it became clear that what the
prosecution was proving was that the building burned
was, in fact, a dwelling house and, therefore, seemed to
be excluded by the statutory language and especially the
commentary to the jury instructions from the definition
of the offense.
Michigan is an information state. Michigan
does not require an indictment that lists every -- every
little bit of the crime and all of the details. All
Michigan requires is a very simple statement of the
crime and the statutory citation and, of course, who the
defendant is and the date and venue of the alleged
crime.
And so here, Mr. Evans would have had no way
of knowing in advance what the prosecution was going to
prove. That's why this case is unlike Lee. This is --
Lee is an effective indictment. Nobody claims that Mr.
Lee was innocent and that the prosecution couldn't prove
the elements of the crime against Mr. Lee. The problem
was just that the indictment failed to allege a specific
fact. And that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I'm a little
confused. It was charged with the crime of burning down
a dwelling, correct?
MR. MORAN: Mr. Evans, no. He was charged
with burning other real property.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Of?
MR. MORAN: Burning other real property.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And no specific statute
was cited?
MR. MORAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which one?
MR. MORAN: The -- that -- that statute, I
have --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The dwelling statute,
not the -- not the exception to the dwelling.
MR. MORAN: It's the exception to the
dwelling statute. It's -- it's 750.73, which is on page
2 of the top side brief.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what he was
charged with?
MR. MORAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why did the court
dismiss, if he was charged with burning down a house? I
thought he was charged with burning down a dwelling, and
the argument was he should have been --
MR. MORAN: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- charged with burning
down a house.
MR. MORAN: No, he was charged with the
crime in 750.7 -- 750.73, which reads, in relevant part,
that, "a person who willfully or maliciously burns any
building or other real property, or the contents
thereof, other than those specified in the next
proceeding subsection" -- "subsection of this chapter."
And the next proceeding section of the chapter is about
burning down dwelling houses.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: My only quibble is you
have no doubt -- the defense attorney had no doubt that
he burnt down a house -- that someone burnt down a
house, correct?
MR. MORAN: It was -- it was allegedly a
vacant house. And apparently, that's why the
prosecution charged it this way.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Got it.
MR. MORAN: So they charged it. They're the
ones who made the choice of which statute to apply.
They, apparently, thought that they couldn't prove that
it was a dwelling house, so they proved the other crime.
And the thinking -- the thinking of the defense attorney
and the thinking of the judge was that these two crimes
were complementary to each other; in other words, that
they did not overlap.
It was either a dwelling house or not a
dwelling house, and then one statute or the other
applies.
As a result of the ruling of the Michigan
Court of Appeals in this case, which is now not
contested, in fact, the burning -- the -- the statute
under which Mr. Evans was charged totally encompasses
the greater crime because any building is covered in the
crime with which Mr. Evans is charged, while only
specific buildings, dwelling houses, are charged in the
arson --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's a sentencing
enhancement, is really what the argument is -- the
decision was.
MR. MORAN: Well, there --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That every -- you can be
charged with burning down a dwelling and you can only
get the enhancement if they prove it's a house.
MR. MORAN: You can only get the greater
offense.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly.
MR. MORAN: Yes. But the -- a jury would
have to make that determination -- or the judge in a
bench trial would have to make that determination beyond
a reasonable doubt.
If there are no further questions, I will
reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Baughman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY A. BAUGHMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. BAUGHMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This trial here was ended before verdict
from a jury on the motion of the defendant, opposed
vigorously by the prosecution, alleging, essentially,
that the crime charged contained an uncharged element on
which insufficient proof had been presented for a
rational factfinder to find guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt; that uncharged element being that the offense be,
for want of a better term, of a -- excuse me -- the
structure be, for want of a better term, a non-dwelling.
We had -- that had not been alleged. But it
has been conceded throughout the appellate history of
this case, from the Michigan Court of Appeals on, that
there is no such element in -- in the -- in the crime.
The statute that Mr. Moran mentioned, that
refers to the next preceding section, over three decades
ago, was held to be words of limitation; in other words,
you don't have to prove it's a dwelling, to prove that
other real property -- a building or other real property
has been burned.
So in the 1970s, it was held the difference
between the two statutes is the greater requires proof
of a dwelling or a habitation; the lesser does not. The
judge held that you have to prove the negative of the
element that enhances the offense, in order to prove the
lesser offense; you have to prove it's a non-dwelling.
And, again, that's been conceded to be error throughout
the entire appellate history here.
And so the proofs were adequate -- were
appropriate here, and the charging document was
appropriate here. And the question becomes, on these
facts, does termination of the trial by the judge
constitute an acquittal, so that jeopardy should bar a
second trial?
The Jeopardy Clause is aimed at prohibiting
certain governmental abuses that occurred historically.
One of them is when the government would terminate a
trial that was not going well, without the consent of
the defendant, in order to take another shot at it -- to
build a better case or perhaps get a better factfinder.
And the Double Jeopardy Clause prohibits
that kind of conduct by establishing, through this
Court's cases, that mistrials without the consent of the
defendant bar retrial, that abhorrent practice is
barred, unless a manifest necessity is shown.
And we've even extended that to the
circumstance that, if the judge is intending to help the
defendant, if he is doing something that he believes is
in defendant's favor, if defendant has not consented,
then that valued right to a verdict from the tribunal
that he is before trumps everything.
But if there is consent, as there was in
this case -- the defendant asked the judge to terminate
the trial without going to this jury, so he gave up his
valued right to a decision by this tribunal -- if he
does that, then that -- the other side of that coin is,
that is ordinarily outcome-determinative the other way.
A retrial is permissible, unless the
government has achieved the first harm by the back door;
that is, by goading the defendant into the mistrial.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So if -- if the judge did
this on her own, that would have been okay? And there
would be Double Jeopardy attaching?
MR. BAUGHMAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So we have to decide in
each case whether the defendant was the initiating
source of the error?
MR. BAUGHMAN: In terms of the -- whether or
not a judgment of acquittal was granted, yes, both the
Federal rule and the Michigan rule provide that, on the
defendant's motion or on the court's own motion, the
court may grant a directed verdict.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what if the
defendant just agrees with the judge? The judge says --
you know, I think this indictment is bad because you --
you have to show that it wasn't a dwelling place, and
the counsel for the Defendant says, yes, that seems like
a good -- a good idea. Is -- is that enough to --
MR. BAUGHMAN: I think that would be enough.
I think agreement with the judge's course of action
would be the judge -- would be, as in the mistrial
situation, would be the defendant's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, my goodness,
disagreement would be malpractice, wouldn't it?
(Laughter.)
MR. BAUGHMAN: Well, it -- it depends on
whether you really wish to get a verdict from this jury
or whether you risk having a -- risk -- risk wanting to
have a retrial before a different factfinder. You may
be very happy with --
JUSTICE SCALIA: A bird in the hand,
counsel. I -- I --
MR. BAUGHMAN: Sometimes, that bird in the
hand can come back and bite you, when you have a second
trial.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Baughman, what would
happen if the defendant asked for improper instructions,
really saying exactly something like this -- you know,
that the jury has to find this additional element that,
in fact, it doesn't have to find? But your theory, I
would think, would say that too, the government could
try the defendant again. After all, the government
didn't get its one fair shot.
MR. BAUGHMAN: That -- that's correct. And
that -- that's the logic of Justice Holmes' position in
Kepner, and we don't go that far, essentially because
this isn't a jury case. There is a logic to that
position, but it is -- there's --
JUSTICE KAGAN: You don't go that far, in
other words, just because it doesn't happen to be this
case.
MR. BAUGHMAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But do you concede that the
logic of your position would extend to improperly
instructed juries?
MR. BAUGHMAN: It would, to a certain
extent, but it is -- it is cut off by two facts. One is
simply, as -- as Justice Holmes often said, the -- the
life -- an ounce of -- I'm -- excuse me -- an ounce of
logic is often trumped by a pound of history. We have
historically said that a verdict by the factfinder, by
the jury, terminates jeopardy, and there is no inquiry
into --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, we've historically
said it in this context, too. I mean, the cases that
you are asking us to overrule go back 50 years.
MR. BAUGHMAN: Well, when I say
historically, I mean back to the time of the founding,
in terms of when the Double Jeopardy Clause was
promulgated and adopted into the Constitution.
Fifty years is not back to when we were determining what
it is we were protecting against when we adopted the
clause.
And as I think most of the commentators have
noted, there is very little explanation in Fong Foo as
to how the Court came out where it came out, and there
has been very little explanation since as to how we got
from the common law prohibition of a retrial after
acquittal on the merits by a jury, to a ruling of law by
the judge that no jury could find guilt beyond a
reasonable doubt being the same thing, which is where we
are today.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You cannot necessarily --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we didn't have it, at
the time of the founding, any mechanism for a judge to
do that. I mean, this -- this is a new procedure, and
how it fit into the prohibition of Double Jeopardy was
certainly a -- an open question.
It's not as though this procedure existed at
the time of the founding or in English law before then
and was never adequate to -- to constitute Double
Jeopardy. It's a new procedure introduced, so the
question for the Court was, well -- you know, if it's
the judge rather than the jury that pronounces the
acquittal, does -- does that constitute Double Jeopardy?
MR. BAUGHMAN: Well, I think you are exactly
right. It, of course, is a new procedure. It didn't
exist at the time of the founding. So our question then
becomes is this new procedure sufficiently equivalent to
that procedure that is historically protected, that
it's -- that the protections that it is designed to
guard against are served when we bar retrial in these
circumstances?
And I think, as Justice Kagan has indicated,
there are many circumstances where what -- what we are
doing is giving the defendant a windfall while serving
no interest that was protected by the Jeopardy Clause.
So if it's to be an analog, then we need to see does it
really closely approximate a retrial after acquittal on
the merits by a jury --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But the point I was making
was that the same windfall is received by the defendant
that gets an acquittal from an improperly instructed
jury.
MR. BAUGHMAN: But -- that is true, except
we -- we could speculate that's -- that's true, but we
don't know why the jury came back the way it did. The
jury may have acquitted for an entirely different
reason. We don't know. We don't have special verdicts,
and we don't have any mechanism for inquiring, so we
treat -- you have to have a line somewhere. Jeopardy
terminates with the jury verdict, which may have been
misinstructed, but we don't know why they came out the
way they did.
If they --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now -- now, I take it
you -- you -- you agree that sometimes the
prosecution -- I'm not saying anyone would -- but
they -- the defendant's acquitted by the jury so --
because he doesn't find -- they don't find enough
evidence, and so the prosecutor thinks, I think I'd like
to try him again, and then he's acquitted again. I'd
like to try him again, and he's acquitted again.
Now, substitute judge for jury, the same
thing could happen. I mean, I don't see why not. And
there's no answer to that, is there? And if there's no
answer to that, the same bad thing could happen. Well,
then you're going to have to start distinguishing among
which judge or jury acquittals do or do not invoke the
problem of the Double Jeopardy Clause.
And where I'm driving is that -- that there
is a principle, and the principle was -- it seems the
simplest way to put it, is where in fact the acquittal
rests upon a judgment that there isn't enough evidence,
that's it. That's what we're after. And where it's
some procedural thing or not, maybe we aren't. Okay.
Now, the virtue of that is it's simple, it's
consistent with the cases, it's been clear. And you're
advocating, let's go into that and change it or at least
interpret the cases that's consistent with it. And
we're saying there wasn't enough evidence, is because
the judge had in mind a legal point that he was wrong
about, then Double Jeopardy Clause doesn't work. But if
the judge was right, it does work. Well, except for the
matter of substantive evidence. Now, that way, as your
opponent, lies a mess.
I just went through that long thing because
I don't want you to get -- sit down without addressing
what I see as a central problem, namely, if we don't
accept his view, it's going to be a terrible mess.
MR. BAUGHMAN: Well, let me say two things.
One is we don't -- we don't have the circumstance that
existed at the common law that the Jeopardy Clause was
designed to protect against of the executive simply
saying, after an acquittal by the factfinder, let's try
him again, let's try him again, let's try him again.
Something has to happen in-between there,
and that is that a court has to determine -- neutral and
detached arbiters have to determine that what happened
when the judge granted the directed verdict of
acquittal, as it's known in Michigan, was not that at
all.
The judge actually did something different.
And if the court doesn't interpose on the prosecution's
request, there will be no retrial. So it's not the
harassment and abusive practice of simply starting a new
prosecution, we're trying to get what happened in
that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, you're beginning to
make distinctions.
MR. BAUGHMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And once you make those
distinctions, I go back to the question I asked, which
was there is a distinction. The distinction is whether
it's a procedural ground or -- and Justice Harlan's --
it's whether there was -- "Just talk to the U.S.
attorney, I didn't like it," or "Talk to the witness,"
or "The prosecution brought too late."
The other side of it, where the clause
attaches, is where it was done on a substantive basis,
not enough evidence. I said -- I don't want to repeat
myself, but I'm saying what he's coming up with is a
simple, clear rule, basically consistent with the cases,
and why shouldn't we follow it?
MR. BAUGHMAN: Well, I think -- I think
consistent with the cases, and also clear, is to apply
Martin Linen Supply by the very terms that it uses; that
is, the resolution that we're talking about the judge
making is moored to something. It's moored to the
elements of the crime. We're talking about somebody
being twice tried for the same offense. How do we
define offense in the law?
In other Double Jeopardy cases, this Court
has taken an elements approach. Two -- two offenses
are -- are different if one requires proof of an
element, the other does not. We look to the elements.
And to direct a jury trial, this Court has been very
active very recently in determining how is it that we
determine when somebody has a right to a jury trial on
some fact before punishment can be imposed? We look to
what are the elements that have to be proven beyond a
reasonable doubt.
If a fact is necessary to -- to -- in order
for punishment to be imposed, if that has to be proven,
then it is a matter for jury trial and it has to be
proven beyond a reasonable doubt. So when this Court
said one or more of the factual elements of the offense
in Martin Linen Supply, I took it to mean -- and I have
always taken it to mean -- one or more of the factual
elements. And we can identify what those are. We have
to identify them in every case.
This is not a -- a strange process you have
to instruct on them, determine what they are and use
those --
JUSTICE ALITO: If the judge -- if the judge
simply misinterprets one of the elements, but doesn't
add a new element, you say that there would be Double
Jeopardy there, right?
MR. BAUGHMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that going to be a
very difficult line to draw?
MR. BAUGHMAN: It can be a very difficult
line to draw, but all tests can sometimes involve
difficult lines to draw. We used to have a no evidence
test for whether evidence was sufficient and we -- that
was changed in Jackson v. Virginia, to whether a
reasonable juror could find guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt.
And you will find a great many dissents in
cases between appellate judges on whether or not this
case itself involved sufficient proof for a jury to find
guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. The test is not always
easily -- easily applicable. And neither was the no
evidence test. So there might be some --
JUSTICE ALITO: Let me give you an example.
Suppose the -- a statute makes it a crime to burn down a
dwelling, and the judge interprets dwelling to mean a
building that is currently lived in and, therefore, not
including a vacation home. And let's assume that's an
incorrect interpretation.
Now, is that an incorrect interpretation?
Or is that the addition of a new element to the statute,
namely, that it is a building in which people -- that's
one element, and the other is people are currently
living there?
MR. BAUGHMAN: I -- I would define -- I
would draw the line at any time the court requires the
prosecution to prove a fact that, under the law passed
by the legislature, the prosecution never has to prove
in order to make out the case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's every
misinterpretation. I mean, I don't know why this case
doesn't involve simply a misinterpretation of what the
elements of the crime are. I mean, any
misinterpretation, you can -- which goes beyond the
minimum that the -- that the statute requires, can be
recharacterized as adding an additional element.
MR. BAUGHMAN: Well, it does involve a -- a
mischaracterization of what the elements were, but not
of an element. The judge didn't here say, you can't
prove that this is a building, unless it was a dwelling,
you can't prove it was real property unless it was a
dwelling.
The judge said, you have -- you can prove
those things, and it's not enough, you also have to
prove that it was a non-dwelling in this case.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But in several of our cases,
what the court has done wrong is to make the prosecution
prove additional facts in order to prove an element. So
the distinction that you're drawing is one between
incorrectly making the prosecution prove additional
facts and incorrectly saying that the prosecution has to
show an additional element. And I guess I just don't
understand that distinction.
MR. BAUGHMAN: Well, I would suggest that
this is an opportunity for this Court to draw the line
at does -- does the judge require -- has the judge
required the prosecution to prove something the statute
doesn't require to be proven, it's not one of the
factual elements of the offense.
Or has the judge -- the error the judge can
make under Martin Linen Supply -- has the judge simply
misassessed the evidence? The judge has looked at it
and said -- you know, I -- I understand all your proofs,
I'm looking at them, and they're just not enough for a
reasonable juror to find guilt --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, if I understand your
test correctly, under your test, Rumsey, Smalis, and
Smith would all have come out differently.
MR. BAUGHMAN: No, I don't think so. Rumsey
is -- is a difficult case, but Rumsey is a verdict case.
Rumsey is not a directed verdict case. The judge in
Rumsey was the factfinder. Rumsey is your bench trial.
It's -- it's -- it's complicated because it was a
sentencing case -- a death penalty sentencing case that
this Court treats the hearing the same as the trial for
Double Jeopardy purposes.
But the judge was the factfinder, and it was
more like a misinstructed jury. The judge himself --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you're saying that
your -- your approach doesn't solve the bench trial
problem any more than your friend's approach, right?
MR. BAUGHMAN: A verdict is a verdict, I
agree with Mr. Moran. When the judge on the merits
returns a verdict, what the judge does or the jury does
in returning a verdict on the merits is very different
when what the judge does on a judgment of acquittal.
The jury weighs credibility and assesses the
weight of evidence, and the judge is prohibited from
doing those things -- is supposed to be by the law, in
making his decision. His is the ruling of law as
gatekeeper, that -- that we won't even reach this
decision.
The jury is expressing its opinion based on
the evidence. And although it can be proven that
they've reached a result contrary to reality, they can't
be right or wrong. Legally, their opinion is their
opinion of those 12 collective people after doing
something the judge isn't allowed to do.
So the directed verdict isn't, I don't
think, a perfect analog to the jury trial. But the
bench trial issue gets very complicated because it is
possible to do something with a bench trial that we
don't do with jury trials, and that is have specific
factfinding as to the elements. Many jurisdictions do.
There is, in fact, a case -- the Lynch case
that Mr. Moran cited, where, on rehearing en banc, the
court split evenly as to whether or not the judge's
verdict, where the judge had actually specifically found
all of the elements -- the crime is elements A, B, and
C, I find them; I don't find element B, so I acquit --
the court split five to five on rehearing en banc and
whether or not that judge had really announced two
verdicts and it could be reformed -- be reformed to a
conviction.
And Justice Sotomayor was one of the members
of the five who would have addressed the question of, is
that not different? The form of the language doesn't
control. Has not the judge actually entered a guilty
verdict in that circumstance?
That's a very -- you know, kind of
off-the-beaten-track kind of a situation. In a jury
trial, where a judge simply takes the case from the jury
on the motion of the defendant and resolves the fact
that the legislature has not said that one needs to be
proven, that is not one of the constituent parts of the
crime, that is not something that need be proven to
impose punishment under the law, then he's done
something very different than what the jury has done.
And to reverse that and allow the
prosecution to have one full and fair opportunity, we
believe imposes no cruelty or oppression upon the
defendant.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Gannon.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CURTIS F. GANNON,
FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MR. GANNON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
We believe the Court can resolve this case
by distinguishing between the misconstruction of an
element and the erroneous addition of an element to the
case. But if the Court's unwilling to draw that
particular distinction, it could also resolve the case
by allowing the government to appeal in both of those
instances. This goes to the question that Justice Kagan
was asking near the end of my friend's argument.
We don't think that that would require
overruling any of the Court's cases. We think it would
require narrowing Smalis and Rumsey to their facts,
and -- and -- but Smith would not be a problem in that
context.
Rumsey is distinct for the reason that my
friend suggested. It was actually a case involving
factfindings by the judge. The Court characterized it
as a special verdict made by the sole decisionmaker
there. It was not an instance like this, where the
judge had taken the case away, as a matter of law, from
the jury because there wouldn't be any sufficient
evidence. It has been cited later on in this cases, in
particular, in Smalis, as being about something like a
sufficiency decision, but on its facts, that's not what
it was.
Smith is about a completely separate
question because there is no dispute there about the
appropriate construction of the element. The firearms
offense there, the element in question was whether the
barrel length was less than 13 inches. There was a
question about whether certain evidence that the firearm
in question was a pistol was sufficient to satisfy that
burden, but there was no doubt about what the -- what
the element was. It was 13 inches or less. And so it
wasn't about misconstruing the element.
Smalis is probably the hardest case in this
context, but if you look at what actually happened in
Smalis and what was at issue in the demurrer there, the
decision that the Court was reviewing was one that was
principally about whether there was sufficient evidence
of causation, which was an undisputed element of each of
the counts at issue there, and only in footnote 7 of the
Court's opinion did it address potential misconstruction
of the element.
And it was a different element. This was
what my -- my friend Mr. Moran mentioned --
JUSTICE BREYER: Let's go through this. My
basic question: Normally, a judge will wait till the
jury comes in and then decide, if the jury convicts him,
whether to set it aside. So there's no problem. So
now, we have the judge -- for some reason or other, this
judge has decided to grant the motion of acquittal in
the middle of the case.
Now, this is unusual, I think -- I hope.
And if so, though, the judge might not think of writing
down his reasons. So he might just say there isn't
enough evidence. And now, it happens that, just before
he did that, the defense lawyer argued to him an
erroneous theory. All right. An added element or
something or other, some kind of misconstruction of
this. What happens then?
MR. GANNON: Well, I think that we -- we
normally expect judges to give reasons for their
decisions.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. But this a judge,
after all, who for some reason -- we don't know what --
decided, instead of waiting, as they normally would do,
grant it in the middle of the case.
MR. GANNON: Well, in the -- in the State of
Michigan, the rule does not permit the judge to reserve
the ruling on this motion.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, I see. So there are a
lot more places --
MS. GANNON: So -- and actually, in the vast
majority of states --
JUSTICE BREYER: They do. They --
MR. GANNON: -- that's the rule. The
Federal rule was only changed in 1994, to allow this
type of --
JUSTICE BREYER: And then this is a --
MS. GANNON: -- decision to be reserved
after trial.
JUSTICE BREYER: This has arisen a lot more
than -- than I think.
All right. Fine. Thank you.
MS. GANNON: And in fact, in the Federal
context --
JUSTICE BREYER: And in that case, do they
have to write it down?
MR. GANNON: Well, I -- I think that the
rule in Michigan, and in the Federal Rule 29, does
require the judge to make a determination of -- to
satisfy that -- that there's an acquittal, which would
mean that there is no -- no sufficient evidence to -- to
support a guilty --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But many states have a
different rule.
MR. GANNON: Many -- many states --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And many states permit
the judge to reserve it till after the jury verdict.
MR. GANNON: My -- my understanding is that
most states do not permit that. The Federal government
only started permitting that in 1994, and even the last
time the Justice Department studied this, about ten
years ago, it concluded that, notwithstanding the 1994
rule amendment in the Federal rules, which came with
advisory committee notes, strongly encouraging judges to
reserve these sorts of decisions precisely to preserve
the public's interest. So notwithstanding --
JUSTICE BREYER: So then, in other words,
when an acquittal --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Finish the sentence.
Notwithstanding that, what?
MR. GANNON: Notwithstanding that, in
approximately 70 percent of the cases in which there are
Rule 29 verdicts, they are done mid-trial, even in the
Federal system, at least in the early 2000s, is the only
data collection that I'm aware of.
And so this -- this still is a problem. I
think that if -- if it looks like the decision is based
on classic insufficiency of the evidence and there is no
argument about whether it was -- it's based on a
misconstruction or an erroneous addition of the
elements, then we -- we would have to be -- we would
lose, unless the Court's willing to overturn the broader
line of cases in Martin Linens, Sanabria, Scott, and the
other cases that were --
JUSTICE BREYER: Can you add to that -- your
-- just your idea of what the empirical situation is in
the last 30 or 40 years? Have most U.S. prosecutors or
prosecutors in these states thought that they could
appeal an acquittal on the -- in the middle of the trial
on the ground that the judge made a mistake of law?
MR. GANNON: I don't think that they -- they
have mostly thought that, but the Federal government
certainly has maintained that that -- that that is
appropriate. In -- we think that in the Maker decision
in the Third Circuit in 1984 recognized this.
We do think that there is -- my -- my friend
Mr. Moran asks the Court to conclude that any decision
like this, that is predicated upon a supposed erroneous
addition of an element, could easily be recharacterized
as a misconstruction of another element.
And I think that -- that while, at some
formal level, that -- that that might be theoretically
true, in an egregious case like this, there is a
distinction, which is that if -- if this were an element
of the offense that needed to be charged in the
indictment -- at least in the Federal system, then the
failure to have alleged that the structure here was a
non-dwelling would have made the indictment invalid.
And the Defendant would have been able to
make exactly the same legal argument he made to the
judge here, which is to say that the prosecution has
failed to prove -- has failed even to allege one of the
necessary elements of the offense, which is that this
structure is not a dwelling. We know that that
particular --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Gannon, if we -- if
we adopt your rule, it -- it can't be for this case
only. And I -- I think this characterization,
nonexistent element -- or a court's misconstruction of
an element, I think, in many cases, you could do -- call
it one or call it the other, so that -- that's a
difficult line to -- to adopt.
MR. GANNON: Well, I don't think it's
difficult, in the sense that most -- most of the cases
that we are talking about don't involve this type of
error. The cases that this Court has decided, Rumsey,
Smalis, and Smith, even the Petitioner doesn't
characterize this case as involving additional elements.
And this Court has recognized, in Lee, that
when the error is one that kept the indictment from
being valid because it failed to charge a relevant
element and the judge did not rule on that until after
jeopardy attached, the government was still entitled to
appeal that decision, and if it were erroneous -- the
government's only going to get a chance at retrial if
the judge's decision was legally erroneous, then,
therefore, it demonstrates that there was no so-called
acquittal on the -- on the offense charged --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, you gave us
earlier the statistics of how many judges grant Rule 29
motions in trial. I think you said 76 percent. What's
the gross number, relative to the number of actual
verdict decisions by juries or the judge himself?
MR. GANNON: The only data that I have seen
about this is data that the Justice Department collected
about ten years ago. It was from the early 2000s.
And -- and the conclusion there was that there were
approximately 73 pretrial Rule 29 dismissals per year --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Out of what number?
MS. GANNON: -- which actually is a larger
number than you -- than you might at first think,
because that represents about ten percent of the number
of cases that were actually resolved by jury verdicts.
And so it -- it is not uncommon.
I mean, this particular type of error that
we have in this case, we think, is the most egregious
kind, the non-existent element error, which -- which the
government had also pointed out in its amicus brief in
Smalis, we think is the most egregious kind of error.
It's one that demonstrates that the court is engaging
in -- it's usurping the province of the legislature in
redefining the scope of the offense.
And we think, under the terms of the Double
Jeopardy Clause itself, which talks about whether
there's been -- somebody's been subject to being twice
in jeopardy for the same offense -- then it -- it
matters what the offense was.
And when the judge has redefined the -- the
crime so extensively that the indictment literally would
have been invalid and could have been dismissed as not
adequately alleging the elements of the offense, and we
know that that is something that the government would
have been able to appeal.
We also know that the government would be
able to appeal if the judge had reserved decision until
after the jury had returned a jury -- a guilty verdict.
We acknowledge, as the state does, that jury
verdicts are different. If a jury is misinstructed and
a jury returns an acquittal, that we are not quarrelling
with that in any way. We don't think there's any
purchase in the Court's case law to do that. And I
think one of the reasons is because the jury verdict
might be attributable, not just to mistake or error, but
also to lenity or compromise.
There -- there are lots of reasons why we
don't exactly know why a jury did what it did, and why
juries generally enter general verdicts. And that makes
it different from what we have here. We have here an
instance where the court, as a matter of law, at the
defendant's behest, took the case away from the jury.
We think the fact that the defendants chose --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that important, "at
defendant's behest"?
MR. GANNON: We do think that that's
important by analogy to the Court's mistrial cases in
the Double Jeopardy Clause context.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you -- you're arguing
that this should only -- only be -- this rule should
only be applied when the defendant asks for it?
MR. GANNON: Or if the defendant consents to
it, as is the case in the mistrial cases in the Double
Jeopardy context.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Moran, you have five minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID A. MORAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MORAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Responding to Mr. Gannon's argument first, I
do characterize Rumsey as an additional element case.
And I also characterize it as a misconstrued element
case. It's a perfect example of how these cases can be
construed either way.
The judge required a contract. You can call
that an additional element to the aggravating
circumstance, or you can call it as a misconstruction of
what pecuniary gain means in the first place.
The same here, the error here can be
construed as a misconstruction of the element that the
property burned has to be a building, and the judge
says, looking at the statute, I construe that to mean a
particular type of building. Or it can be, as the
prosecution construed it, as the addition of an element.
There is no difference between the two
characterizations.
Turning to the -- the broader question about
this whole line of cases and should this Court go back
and revisit this whole line of cases, is there really a
problem here? We have no amicus briefs from any states
indicating that there's a problem. We have only the
amicus from the United States saying that there's a
problem.
Is there a problem here that justifies going
back and revisiting 50 years -- or possibly 108 years,
all the way back to Kepner -- all of this case law? We
submit not, especially since, as this Court noted just
six years ago in Smith, there is an easy solution if
there really is a problem.
If there really is a problem with judges
going wild and granting directed verdicts mid-trial for
no apparent reason, all that has to be done is the
states can fall into that, as we can say, judges can't
do that, or judges as an intermediate -- states as an
intermediate step could at least give judges the power
to reserve that decision --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Have any states done that?
I -- I'm somewhat concerned about telling a judge that,
if the judge's best judgment says there's insufficient
evidence, that then it has to proceed with a trial.
MR. MORAN: I would be, too,
Justice Kennedy. I think it would be a mistake.
I'm not aware of any state, since this
decision -- since this Court's decision in Smith -- that
have followed Nevada's lead. There are good reasons to
give judges this acquittal power, namely, preserve the
state's resources, preserve the jury's time, and
present -- and prevent the defendant from having to go
through a trial that is going nowhere.
And so there are good reasons why states
don't do this. States have apparently made the
decision, even after being alerted in Smith, that
there's something they can do about it, that the good of
giving judges this mid-trial directed verdict acquittal
power outweighs the bad.
Finally, I'd just like to respond to
Mr. Baughman's point, and it was also raised by
Mr. Gannon, about how jury verdicts are different.
There's something special about jury verdicts because we
don't always know why they granted the verdict.
But we have the same problem with judicial
directed verdicts. And we have Martin Linen, where the
judge just says, this is the weakest case I -- I have
ever seen. We have Smalis, where he just says, it's
legally insufficient.
If the Court adopts the line that the
prosecution and -- and the Solicitor General would have
you adopt, you're going to have to require judges to
give very specific findings as to what the elements of
the offense are and which ones that they -- they don't
find. And that, itself, would require a radical
reworking of this Court's jurisprudence.
If there are no further questions?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. MORAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:00 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
50:2 54:25 27:16 50:10 applied 54:2 18:23
57:15 51:6 54:12,17 52:24 25:17 37:11 attaches 7:21,24
35:25 35:23 allowing 8:19,19 appropriate 13:1
adequately amendment approximate 25:9,20 37:2
4:22 5:6 12:24 13:1 52:11 55:6,8 arbiter 10:5 aware 10:12,13
11:17 adopt 50:20,25 analog 33:23 arbiters 36:9 49:3 56:4
13:14,16 57:4 42:21 Arbor 1:15 a.m 1:13 3:2
14:6,17 adopted 18:20 analogy 53:23 argue 16:19
angels 13:8 21:1 B
15:9
17:13 adopts 57:2 Ann 1:15 argued 46:18 B 43:5,6
22:12 advance 23:15 announced 43:8 arguing 5:23 6:1 back 7:15 13:12
28:13 adversaries answer 13:13,13 53:25 13:18 14:1
32:19 19:15 14:7 15:7 35:1 argument 1:12 17:2 20:13,19
34:3 adversary 6:8 35:2 2:2,5,8,12 3:3 29:14 30:24
36:5,11 advisory 48:17 anxiety 20:23 3:6 9:5,13 32:6,8,11 34:7
46:12 advocating apparent 55:18 11:24 14:2,13 36:23 55:4,11
49:17 35:14 apparently 18:7 21:9,14,19 55:12
53:7 affirmative 25:13,18 56:12 22:25 24:21 bad 13:4 30:5
14:20,23 15:5 appeal 11:9 26:11 27:3 35:2 56:16
9:8 54:17 44:17 49:17 50:13 54:8,11 banc 43:2,7
35:4 aggrieved 6:20 51:12 53:1,3 arguments bar 28:13,24
34:8,19 51:24 55:14 appeals 6:20 arisen 47:18 barred 28:25
agree 34:17 42:4 7:10 15:10,15 arises 20:23 barrel 45:15
agrees 30:4 1:14 9:21 46:10 basic 46:8
38:15,20 39:10 39:5 assesses 42:8 30:16,23 31:1
23:2 25:3 26:6 52:9 53:9,18 Chief 3:3,8 coming 8:18
33:11 27:24 39:13,18 54:4,12,14 18:25 19:7,12 37:7
36:1,21 40:11 54:22,24 55:12 56:24 19:21 20:6,14 commentary
38:19,22 buildings 26:8 57:12,14 27:1,5 44:5,10 23:5
40:8,25 built 22:21 cases 12:19 16:4 54:6,10 57:10 commentators
42:3 burden 16:20 16:7 19:22,23 57:11,12 32:14
Burks 14:20,20 28:23 32:5 chooses 5:5 48:17
3:7 27:25 54:22 40:17 44:21 13:1 49:23 complementary
54:9 burning 23:23 45:7 48:25 circumstance 25:22
26:4,15 53:23 54:4,14 circumstances 45:11
9:2,10 business 19:12 central 35:24 cited 24:5 43:2 compromise
26:22 certain 28:16 45:7 53:12
42:1,22 C 31:21 45:16 citizen 20:10 concede 31:18
C 2:1 3:1 43:6 certainly 33:3 claimed 13:7 conceded 27:17
called 12:2 change 35:14 classic 49:6 conclude 49:25
32:20 21:22,24,25 47:13 19:1 20:8,21 48:15
39:2,7 22:1 chapter 25:5,6 21:17 28:15,21 conclusion
case 3:4,21 4:8 characterizati... 32:9,13 33:22 51:25
18:12,14,21 characterized 37:8,11 consent 28:18
36:19,22 20:8 22:16,19 12:5 45:2 clearly 12:16 28:23 29:7
47:7 23:16 26:3 characterizes clever 8:19 consented 29:4
27:18 28:20 15:8 16:1 client 21:1,5,6 consents 54:3
49:13 29:8,21 31:12 charge 5:24 51:9 closely 33:24 consequences
39:6,25 40:2 23:23,25 24:16 collected 51:23 consider 4:4
43:1,1,18 26:7,8,15 come 5:13 13:12 37:11
37:3 45:1,5,21 51:16 20:19 30:24 constituent
3:18,25 4:20 currently 39:13 20:22 21:17 determining
7:10 8:20 9:10 CURTIS 1:19 defendant's Detroit 1:17
12:23 13:25 cut 31:22 15:17,20 18:23 difference 28:1
18:15 19:8,18 D 3:1 53:18,21 34:8 36:13
45:22 37:18,22 38:6 2:13 3:6 54:8 39:21 41:14
53:24 39:22 40:18 de 10:3 definition 23:5 difficult 38:21
41:1,21 43:3,7 death 41:20 delay 3:24 12:10 38:22,24 41:16
21:2 51:4,7 52:13 29:20 46:9 16:5 51:15 directed 10:14
courts 10:10 51:4 16:16 45:23 42:20 55:17
13:19 16:6 45:9,24 47:16 51:23 19:8
43:10 30:1 44:15,21 51:12,14 53:3 depending 14:9 30:14
7:23 23:24 credence 3:16 decisions 46:24 33:16 36:4 dismissals 52:1
29:19 credibility 18:11 48:18 51:21 detached 36:9 dismissed 17:10
42:8 deeper 9:12 details 23:9 17:23 52:23
27:1 30:7 23:23 25:1,19 5:9,12 11:8 3:23 4:12,19 14:23
44:5 26:6,7 27:10 12:6 14:18 4:21 7:6,8 10:2 dispute 45:12
54:6 27:19 37:15 22:16,20 23:12 11:1,10,13 dissent 13:7
39:11 40:4 27:8 28:19,24 16:10 26:21,22 dissents 39:4
23:11 cruelty 44:2 50:12 54:2,3 determined 50:7
33:12 curiae 1:21 2:10 56:9 13:23 distinctions
3:1 encourage 6:3 5:20 19:8 22:6 52:22
35:3 51:18 48:17 26:5,7 extra 16:13
early 49:2 51:24 ended 27:7 evenly 43:3
33:21 50:2 enhancement 34:21 35:9,16
5:7 8:17 effectively 18:20 enter 53:15 45:7,16,25 37:25 38:3
10:9 effort 13:1 entered 43:14 46:17 48:4 39:23 43:1,19
17:15 egregious 50:6 entire 28:8 49:6 56:1
53:19
19:1
entirely 34:8 exactly 4:25 factfinder 27:12
either 12:15 entitled 11:13 6:11 12:3 28:20 30:19
22:15 25:24 54:15 16:10,23 51:11 21:12 26:19 32:1 36:5
29:18 element 11:18 enunciated 18:1 31:3 33:11 41:18,23
33:2,6,10 11:23 12:8,11 equivalency 50:13 53:14 factfinding
37:18 12:14 13:5,6,7 21:21 examining 42:25
41:22 14:13,14,15 equivalent 10:8 15:18 factfindings
53:24 16:14 27:10,13 33:14 example 3:24 45:2
27:19 28:5 erroneous 4:20 8:9 16:6 39:10 facts 4:11 28:12
40:19,22
26:23
39:17,19 49:8 50:1 examples 8:23 44:22 45:9
32:21 40:7,10,19,23 51:12,14 8:24 12:25
39:3,7
44:14,14 erroneously 4:2 exception 24:11 22:8 38:7,9
45:13,14,19,20 error 5:13 19:5 24:12 41:5
50:2,3,7,22,23 20:17 21:5,8 excuse 27:14 23:20 50:15,15
41:1 51:10 52:10 21:11,23 28:7 31:24 51:9
54:12,13,17,21 29:22 41:6 executive 36:4 failing 17:3
23:3,24 40:9 41:5 especially 22:8 expects 20:10
44:1
43:5,5 23:4 55:13 explain 16:25 fall 13:18 55:19
49:9 50:16 ESQ 1:15,17,19 explanation far 19:14 31:11
27:23 51:6 52:24 2:3,6,9,13 32:15,17 31:14
30:6 57:5 essentially 7:1 explicitly 5:20
40:11
50:17 17:10 27:9 31:11 expressing 47:13,21 48:1
7:6,8,9 22:13 29:9 35:3,25 40:23 hole 9:12
11:7 further 26:24 38:20 51:13 guilt 4:12 12:20 Holmes 31:10
57:9 55:10,17 56:10 13:21 14:11 31:23
27:12 gain 54:19 56:14 guilty 3:12 4:19 20:19 21:7
32:20 Gannon 1:19 goodness 30:13 11:8 20:12 hope 46:14
39:2 2:9 44:6,7,10 gotten 21:1 43:14 48:5 hours 6:19 7:9
41:11 46:22 47:4,9 government 53:4 house 23:3
57:7 47:12,16,21,25 3:21,22 4:14 guy's 5:3 24:19,24 25:10
20:11 49:19 50:19 19:2,4,14,17 H 25:25 26:16
52:4 15:14 53:15 28:16 happens 7:16 49:14
57:3 government's 10:22 46:17,21 identify 15:4
Ginsburg 5:8,23 grant 9:8 10:14 36:16 impaneled 17:8
18:4 39:10 46:23 17:7 18:5 22:3 harm 21:4 29:14 38:4
55:21 56:7 29:24 36:10 hauled 19:8 imposes 44:2
32:15 given 9:19,20 granting 16:24 hear 3:3 12:24
56:15 grants 7:2 11:16 hearing 41:21 31:2
33:5,13 46:7 55:4 56:9 gross 51:20 helping 9:4,13 include 15:5
goes 10:2,3 40:5 49:18 historically incorrect 5:10
going 4:10 7:18 guarantee 11:11 33:15 incorrectly
invoking 4:5 26:21 28:4,12 41:11 26:19 27:1,5
50:9,11 involve 38:23 29:2,8,16 30:4 jury 4:9,9 5:17 29:16,20 30:3
52:22 40:3,8 51:3 30:4,11 32:20 6:12,14,19 30:13,21 31:1
involving 45:1 34:24 35:4,17 8:25 9:1 10:6,8 32:4,23,24
13:21 issue 5:9 19:3 39:12 40:10,14 19:11 21:21 38:15,20 39:10
42:22 45:23 41:2,2,6,6,7,8 22:5,5 23:5 40:1,17 41:12
jeopardy 3:13 46:12,15,25 33:25 34:4,7,8 48:6,9,14,20
7:24 8:6,17 49:18 50:14 35:4 37:22,24 50:19 51:17,23
34:3 20:3,8,21 judges 5:6 6:4 43:17,18,24 57:12
5:17 28:13,15,21 10:14 16:24 48:10 52:6
22:1 29:18 32:2,9 39:5 46:23 53:4,4,5,6,7,10 K
31:2 33:2,7,10,22 48:17 51:18 53:14,18 56:19 Kagan 20:4,25
49:6 36:3 37:18 56:7,15 57:4 jury's 56:8 31:18 32:4
27:11 51:11 52:17,19 11:13,25 30:10 3:8,16 4:1,13 40:17 41:12
57:1 53:24 54:5 43:3 51:14 4:23 5:2,6,8,23 44:18
5:13,15 6:12 judgment 7:22 9:1,4,11,18 15:6,13,24
8:17,25 9:19 35:9 42:7 12:7,13 13:11 Kennedy's 7:15
12:19 13:14,15 juries 21:23 18:4,9,13,15 kind 22:22
16:13,15,19 42:25 22:14,23 23:22 16:22 20:6
30:5 31:3 lenity 53:12 losing 22:10 means 54:19 45:20
34:7,9,13 lesser 5:11 28:3 lot 19:21,23 47:8meant 12:18 misinstructed
41:9 28:6 47:18 mechanism 8:19 22:2 34:13
47:1 let's 9:2 35:14 lots 21:10 53:13 11:9 32:25 41:24 53:6
52:25 36:5,6,6 39:14 lunch 17:13,25 34:10 misinterpreta...
56:21 46:7 Lydon 9:25 members 43:11 40:2,3,5
limited 17:19 maintained Michigan 1:6,15 30:11 53:23
23:4 39:22 41:1 making 4:11 36:11 47:5 mixed 22:9
49:11 50:25 10:1 21:24 48:1 moored 37:14
32:18,19 19:24 20:20 30:14 mid-trial 6:18 5:15,25 6:7,10
36:3 37:12 38:8 mandate 6:21 10:14,17,20 6:22,25 7:11
39:23 41:7 56:23 manifest 28:25 12:1 18:22 7:24 8:3,8,12
43:23 Linens 49:11 Martin 3:21 49:1 55:17 8:15,25 9:3,7
49:18 lines 38:24 12:17,18 14:25 56:15 9:15,23 10:18
55:12 listed 18:5 15:2,3,18 16:6 mind 35:17 10:21,24 11:6
51:7 living 39:20 11:12 40:9 18:14 19:7,20
20:1 31:19,25 3:15 35:20 13:23 15:9 21:20 22:23
long 3:10 35:22 38:5 45:5 18:6,17,21 23:25 24:3,6,8
35:17 look 15:2 37:21 53:17 57:15 misconstruction 24:12,17,22,25
37:25 45:22 matters 52:20 44:13 46:3,20 25:12,16 26:13
51:14 looking 16:16 21:2,5 22:18 54:18,21 42:4 43:2 46:6
20:14 41:10 32:5,8 33:1 misconstrue 49:25 54:7,8
43:20 looks 49:5 39:12 40:2,4 misconstrued 57:11
looming 22:15 48:4 52:8 54:13 motion 5:16
43:19 November 1:9 ounce 31:24,24 perspective 16:9 22:4
47:6 novo 10:3 outcome-dete... 20:15 pretrial 3:24
23:6 26:18 overruling 54:19 15:14 35:7,7
41:5 45:14 please 3:9 27:6 problem 10:25
52:15,19,20,24 P 3:1 point 4:5 6:11 16:5 17:1
off-the-beaten... part 11:24 12:11 pointed 52:11 46:10 49:4
ones 25:17 57:6 party 6:20 pound 31:25 proceed 56:1
36:16 42:14,17,18 Pennsylvania 56:7,16 6:19
39:17 46:3 7:4 16:19 practice 28:24 process 11:5
opportunity 42:18 precedents 3:11 prohibited 42:9
28:6 opposed 22:20 51:19 52:5 27:21 28:15
50:11 27:8 perfect 42:21 precisely 48:18 prohibition
oppression perfectly 13:20 precluded 5:25 prohibits 28:21
47:2 44:2 29:13 preliminary 11:19
55:13 3:6 27:3 44:7 48:12 present 56:9 32:10
ordinarily 29:12 person 25:2 presumably 28:2 37:20
proved 25:19 raised 14:5 redefining 52:15 1:18,22 2:7,11
27:24,24 43:21,22 rational 27:12 rehearing 43:2,7 54:11
54:22 proves 21:9 rationale 15:7 related 12:16 rests 35:9
22:10 29:25 20:7 13:21 15:4 26:2 42:16
11:18,19 proving 23:2 reach 42:12 relevant 25:1 29:13 30:19
14:10,21 public's 48:19 reached 42:16 51:9 32:18 33:17,24
18:22 punishment reads 25:1 relying 19:11 36:15 51:13
37:25 38:4 real 21:4,16 render 9:20 retry 7:25
27:9 43:23 24:1,3 25:3 renders 7:20 returned 53:4
36:17 purchase 53:9 27:24,24 40:12 11:7 returning 42:6
39:23,24 purpose 12:3,21 reality 42:16 repeat 37:6 returns 42:5
15:22 20:21 really 14:14 representative 53:7
44:1 purposes 3:14 15:10 19:17 19:10,13 reversal 7:25
54:25 4:22 10:8 26:11 30:17 represents 52:5 8:7
13:22 18:16 31:3 33:24 request 6:18 reverse 43:25
9:20 41:22 55:16 require 10:20 review 8:20
18:11 put 7:13 35:8 reason 16:12 23:8 41:2,4 19:22
36:14 puts 4:17 17:23 22:6 44:20,22 48:2 reviewing 45:24
46:11 47:1 required 41:3 revisiting 55:11
15:8 quality 19:25 reasonable requirement re-prosecution
20:2 26:23 27:12 22:21 11:20
question 5:19,20 39:2,2,7 41:11 28:2 37:20 18:3 21:13
36:4 20:5 28:11 19:1 46:16,23 reserve 4:7 33:12 35:19
36:23 43:12 56:11 48:10,18 55:22 42:2,17 46:19
55:3 received 34:2 resolution 37:13 ROBERTS 3:3
14:3 16:24 22:9 40:7 50:2 resolved 52:6 20:6,14 27:1
15:19 26:24 57:9 recognized resolves 43:19 44:5 54:6
25:18 quibble 25:8 49:23 51:7 resources 56:8 57:10,12
27:23,23 quite 4:2 16:4 recognizing respect 9:15 rule 14:8 29:25
39:23 17:3 22:11 11:14 29:25 37:8
40:11,12 reconsider 4:16 respectfully 47:5,12,13
R reconsideration 19:8 21:9 48:1,1,7,16
41:3 R 3:1 9:24 respond 56:17 49:1 50:20
radical 57:7 redefined 52:21 Respondent 51:10,18 52:1
19:25 49:11 11:20 30:12 specific 23:20 strongly 48:17
7:9 12:19 28:14 30:24 Smalis 6:23,25 specifically 20:1 studied 48:14
13:24 section 25:6 7:1 16:15,18 43:4 sua 6:13
26:2 27:21 19:23 41:13 specified 5:21 subject 52:18
42:11 see 11:9 17:1 44:22 45:8,21 25:4 subjectively
33:23 34:25 45:23 51:5 speculate 34:6 15:25
seen 16:8 51:22 Smith 4:16 9:23 sponte 6:13 submitted 57:13
41:13,15 semantics 13:9 44:23 45:11 stand 3:11 subsection 5:22
sense 51:2 51:5 55:14 standard 19:11 25:5,5
51:4 sentence 48:22 56:5,13 start 35:3 substance 13:10
sentencing smoke 13:25 started 48:13 substantive
set 7:20 9:21,25 somebody 37:15 19:9,10,13 sufficiently
21:16 46:10 somebody's 47:4 53:5 56:4 suggest 40:25
20:7 shot 19:4,6,19 somewhat 55:24 2:10 10:20,23 22:20
34:18 20:16,18 28:19 sorry 11:16 44:8 47:10 suggests 21:4
36:5 31:8 23:22 48:6,8,9,12 Supply 37:12
40:22 show 30:6 40:23 sorts 48:18 49:16 55:6,8 38:8 41:7
55:8 shown 28:25 Sotomayor 3:16 55:19,20,23 support 48:5
14:20 side 19:16 24:14 8:9,13,22 9:1,4 state's 9:17 56:8 5:18
30:4 29:11 37:4 9:11,18 10:16 statistics 51:18 supporting 1:21
54:23 simple 23:10 10:19,22 11:3 statute 5:19,19 2:11 44:9
56:24,25 35:12 37:8 23:22 24:2,4,7 14:4,4,9,18 suppose 4:23
29:16 simply 13:4,9 25:8,15 26:10 25:17,25 26:4 39:11
30:3,13 16:15 31:23 26:14,19 43:11 27:20 39:11,17 supposed 19:16
32:24 36:4,16 38:16 48:6,9 51:17 40:6 41:3 42:10 50:1
41:25 40:3 41:7 52:2 54:23 Supreme 1:1,12
53:20,25 43:18 source 29:22 statutes 28:2 3:25 12:23
13:19 sit 35:23 special 22:12 step 55:21 suspended 6:19
17:20,21 sits 10:6 34:9 45:3 straighten 15:11 system 6:9 9:14
18:20 situation 7:1 56:20 strange 38:12 9:25 11:11
22:14,20 22:13 32:21 1:17 2:6 27:3 31:22 36:1 30:2,17 32:1
50:9 34:25 35:2,11 today 32:22 37:19,19 43:8 34:12 36:10
11:17 14:7 treat 34:11 unanswerable 56:21
45:5 19:22 20:9 treats 41:21 unbroken 3:10 11:4 34:9 43:9
17:12 32:14 33:11,19 10:3,15 11:5,7 underlies 19:1 vest 5:6
51:3 34:21 37:10,10 11:8,16 16:12 understand 15:6 view 4:14,17,20
44:20,21 46:14 18:5 20:11 40:24 41:9,12 vigorously 27:9
50:21,23 51:1 30:25 37:22,24 unfairly 5:4 W
53:10,19,22 43:18 47:17 2:10 44:8 55:8 waived 22:18
thinking 25:20 56:1,10 unwilling 44:15 walks 21:6
thinks 11:23 42:24 urging 6:5 27:15 35:23
32:9 34:21 tried 16:19 uses 37:12 wanting 30:18
52:16 Third 49:23 37:16 usurping 52:14 Washington 1:8
thought 8:22 trumps 29:6 12:14 30:6
47:20 18:7 24:20 22:7 31:7 39:1 22:5 23:14
57:10 25:18 49:16,20 34:22,23 36:5 vacant 25:13 25:14 29:12
three 27:21 36:6,6 vacation 39:14 34:7,14 35:8
till 46:8 48:10 36:17 valued 29:5,10 54:15 55:12
18:1,1 32:8,25 33:5 Turning 55:3 venue 23:12 weak 16:12
46:19 33:13 39:22 twice 37:16 verdict 7:20,23 weakest 16:7
21:12 TIMOTHY 25:21 28:2 22:4 27:7 29:5 weight 42:9
36:17 1
108 55:11
11:03 1:13 3:2
34:2
37:2 29 48:1 49:1
25:22
2:4
31:15
49:15
45:6 44 2:10
8:7,11 50 32:6 55:11
35:17 54 2:14
42:17
7
46:2
25:1
49:15
