IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
CITY OF ARLINGTON, TEXAS, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 11-1545
v. :
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS :
COMMISSION, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
and
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
CABLE, TELECOMMUNICATIONS, AND :
TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE OF THE :
NEW ORLEANS CITY COUNCIL, : No. 11-1547
Petitioner :
v. :
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS :
COMMISSION, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 16, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Petitioners.
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 4
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 30
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 59
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 11-1545, City of Arlington,
Texas v. The Federal Communications Commission and the
consolidated case.
Mr. Goldstein?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, thank you
very much. May it please the Court:
This case can get complicated, quickly,
because the word "jurisdiction" means a lot of different
things to a lot of different people, in a lot of
different contexts, and the parties have advanced both
broad and narrow theories for resolving the case. So
the thing I can do, most helpfully, at the beginning, I
think, is to frame where I believe the real dispute in
the case lies.
The FCC claims the authority to interpret
Section 332(c)(7) of the Communications Act with the
force of law. And my argument today is limited to the
question -- that threshold jurisdictional question,
which we call interpretive jurisdiction, Iowa Utilities
called it underlying jurisdiction, law professors like
to call it Chevron Step Zero, but that's what I'm
focused on.
And the Fifth Circuit said that, on that
question, the FCC gets Chevron deference. And that is
it gets to decide whether it has the authority to
interpret the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Goldstein, this case
has been presented in a very complicated way, but it
seems to me that what we're dealing with is a rule
adopted by the Commission, and the Commission's
rule-making power, as you know, is very broad.
They have power to make the rules needed to
carry out the provisions of the Act. And 332 is --
counts as a provision of the Act. So why isn't it just
a proper implementation of that rule-making authority?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, the
question on which you granted certiorari was how to
decide that question, not what is the answer to that
question.
What the Fifth Circuit did, acknowledging a
circuit conflict, was decided that the FCC's assertion
that you are right is, itself, entitled to Chevron
deference.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Suppose you win
on that, okay?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Or I -- I grant you, I
don't see any reason for that. The question is just
whether Congress intended them to have a degree of
discretionary power, but all the arguments that we hear
still count against you. So -- so if you want to go
into the Chevron Step Zero or Step Minus Alpha 13.6, I
mean, fine.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: But, I mean, at some point,
I will hope you -- I hope you will go into what I'd call
the question of we have a statute, just as
Justice Ginsburg said, it's an expert statute. It is a
statute in an agency that has all kinds of discretionary
authority. It includes an important substantive
question about what the relation is with the cable
television in this area -- post -- not cable, but -- you
know, the broadcast posts.
And so all these factors here, which
suggest, of course, Congress, which is not expert, would
have wanted the FCC to figure this one out.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. I --
JUSTICE BREYER: That -- that -- at some
point -- you don't have to go into it at all, if you
don't want to, but I just want to put that on the table.
(Laughter.)
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Breyer, I do want to
talk about it. I do hope --
JUSTICE BREYER: You don't have to talk
about it now, but you can talk about it whenever you
want.
(Laughter.)
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I appreciate it. But I'd
like to talk about the things you want to hear me talk
about.
I am very conscious of the fact, let me say,
that the Court limited this grant of certiorari to the
first question presented, which was the abstract Chevron
question, and so I just don't want to jump the gun --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if the abstract
question really isn't presented -- I mean, just to
follow on what I asked you first, here is a phrase, "a
reasonable time." And the Commission interprets that
phrase in a reasonable way.
Why is this case any more complicated than
that? Why doesn't the FCC have the authority to
interpret that term, within a reasonable time?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Ginsburg, you -- you
and Justice Breyer have both asked me to turn to that
question, so I'm going to do it. The only point I'm
making is that all of these questions assume that we are
right on the question presented, which I think we
obviously are. So I'm happy to move on, but I just did
not want to hurry past the legal question on which you
granted certiorari.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, don't, because I
don't -- I don't think it's so clear.
(Laughter.)
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Look, what you've told us
is jurisdiction means a lot of things, but what you mean
by it is real jurisdiction, right?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I mean -- what I mean by
it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Chevron Step Zero
jurisdiction. That doesn't clarify things very much for
me. What if -- what if the statute in this case said,
the FCC shall have no jurisdiction to establish time
limits within which the States must act?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay? Would that be a
jurisdictional question?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That would. That would
be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. What if the statute
just said, the FCC shall not establish time limits
within which the States must act. Is that
jurisdictional?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is a different kind of
jurisdictional question. It is a jurisdictional
question.
Justice Scalia, so maybe I can help you,
just on the question of what I'm talking about and
whether I can draw -- whether I can draw my line or
whether it's just malleable and every court's going to
get drawn into it, which I suspect you may be concerned
about. Okay?
The kind of jurisdiction I'm talking about
is what you called, in your Iowa Utilities opinion for
the Court, "underlying jurisdiction." And, in Iowa
Utilities, in the discussion of the FCC's underlying
jurisdiction, you undertook the judicial task of looking
at the words of the statute and figuring out that
Congress did intend, along the lines of the theory that
Justice Ginsburg just articulated, that the FCC did have
the power to implement those provisions of the '96 Act.
And in -- as we have rehearsed, to be
honest, every one of your Chevron opinions deals with
this question: Just did the agency have the power to
interpret this statutory provision with the force of
law? You and the -- all of your colleagues on the Court
have always decided that question de novo.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I don't think so. In
fact, I think we have said in -- in a number of
opinions -- and, certainly, I have said in a
concurrence -- that the jurisdictional question, like
any other question -- an alleged jurisdictional
question, like any other one, is to be decided with
deference to the agency.
Now, if you -- if you talk -- if you want to
limit your proposal --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I do.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- to the -- to the entry
question --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I do.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- of whether the FCC has
jurisdiction to administer the Federal
Communications Act, I agree with you. I will decide
that without listening to the FCC. But that's -- that's
a good deal short of whether, given that it does have
jurisdiction to administer the Federal Communications
Act, its implementation of this particular provision
goes beyond what its authority is.
That seems, to me, a question of -- you can
call everything that's ultra vires in excess of the
agency's jurisdiction, you can. But that's not --
that's not what we mean by the entry jurisdictional
question, does the agency have authority to administer
this Act.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Justice Scalia, the
place where -- I do limit myself to the entry point and
the place where you and I are going to disagree is
whether the entry point is just the generic question,
does the FCC administer the whole Act or the somewhat
more narrow question, does the FCC administer this
statutory provision?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there some statutes
where parts of the statute are subject to the agency's
Chevron rule-making authority and its zero plus one
jurisdiction and other parts are not? You just
mentioned the case by Justice Scalia -- and I'm not sure
that that involved that because it does seem to me, just
reading through, that "reasonable time," that sounds
like something that -- where we can have a specific
elaboration of what it means.
And to say that the jurisdiction of the
agency or the authority of the agency does not extend to
rules seems a little odd at first. I recognize the
federalism problems and so forth.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Okay. The answer to
your question is yes, and the best example is this
statute. It is uncontested and incontestable that
the -- the FCC does not administer all of the
Communications Act. This Court so held, squarely, in
the Louisiana Public Service Commission case, in which,
there, Congress added to the Communications Act Sections
251 and 252.
And there was a provision in that statute
that said -- that limited the scope of the FCC's power,
as we say Section 332(c)(7) does. We will have to go
through that and debate that. But the Communications
Act is plainly -- and there are other provisions as
well. But the best example is the Louisiana PSC case.
And so --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your
understanding of jurisdiction and what you're arguing
for today is nothing more or less than this is a
provision as to which Congress did not give the agency
law-making authority. You do not defer to the agency
with respect to this provision because it's outside its
jurisdiction in the sense that it gets deference.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is correct. I would
only cabinet it in the following way: And there's --
the question on which you granted certiorari is does the
FCC get Chevron deference in its assertion that it gets
to interpret 332(c)(7) with the force of law. I
think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. Now, the
reason -- the reason we are hearing all about
jurisdiction and it's kind of dressed up --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- is simply because
the means by which Congress made clear it was not giving
the FCC authority to get deference, however that is
phrased, is this 7(a), which speaks about nothing will
limit the authority of the States.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It's that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If it weren't for
that, if it were some other type of provision, that --
we wouldn't call it jurisdiction, but we would just say,
the FCC doesn't get deference to it.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It would be a very easy
jurisdictional question. We rely on two provisions of
332(c)(7) to establish the proposition that Congress did
not intend the general rule-making authority in Section
201(b) of the Communications Act to extend to 332(c)(7).
And those are --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- that's no
different from our holding in any case that the agency
has no authority to issue this rule. It has rule-making
authority, but this rule goes too far, which is to say
Congress did not give the agency authority to go this
far.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's -- it's always a
question of how much authority Congress gave the agency.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We disagree. And I
understand that you have a vision of how Chevron
deference operates. We disagree with it in this
respect, respectfully, and that is we believe that every
one of this Court's Chevron precedents has started --
sometimes, only in a sentence, because, often, it's very
simple -- often, it's uncontestable -- that it's a
provision of the Communications Act that does fall
within, for example, the FCC's 201(b) authority.
But it is always as -- you have always
approached that question as judges. First, we decide
does the FCC have the power to implement this statute?
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Goldstein, at one
level, you are right. It's just a level that doesn't
help you very much. I mean, it's -- it's true that,
always, there is an initial question of whether an
agency is entitled to Chevron deference. But, usually,
the way we answer that question is just this: We say is
this the agency's organic statute? Yes.
Does that organic statute provide the agency
with lawmaking power? Yes. Has the agency acted in
accordance with that lawmaking-- under that lawmaking
power? Yes. Well, then, the agency gets deference. We
go on to the next thing, which is Step One and Step Two.
So -- you know, we don't -- what we don't do
is this sort of provision by provision, subsection by
subsection, did Congress have a special intent as to
this subject matter or that subject matter or the other
subject matter? We've just had some very simple rules
about what gets you into the box where an agency is
entitled to deference.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kagan, I disagree.
I honestly disagree. I'm going to give you three cases
that I think show that I am right and that your
articulation of your -- that approach is not correct.
And I encourage you to ask the Solicitor General what
his best case is. It may be he thinks American
Hospital, which I'll talk about.
Here are my three cases:
Louisiana Public Service Commission,
provision by provision, the Court looked de novo at the
question of whether Sections 251 and 252 of the
Communications Act were subject to the general
rule-making power. It said no.
Adams Fruit, another case where the
Secretary of Labor had general rule-making authority
over the agricultural worker protection statute. And
the Court looked specifically at the private right of
action and said, your authority doesn't extend here.
And the last one is Meade, where the Customs
Service has the general authority to administer that
statute. And, instead, the Court looked at the specific
provision involved, and it said, do you have lawmaking
authority with the respect to these interpretive rulings?
And so it has always done some --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did -- did it say, in all
of those cases, we give no deference to the agency's
contrary determination because this is a jurisdictional
question? Did it say anything like that?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It did not. I have not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't think so.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia, I will tell
you this: I am not overclaiming the cases. I am
describing what happened in them, particularly on the
axis of whether the Court went provision by provision.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Very -- very often, I could
decide a case -- you know, the lower courts are running
away from the question of deference vel non because
things have been so confused by Meade. So they simply
decide the question assuming no deference to the agency.
That doesn't prove that, in that particular case, the
agency wouldn't have been entitled to deference.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia, let me tell
you why --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Whether it was or not, it
would have come out this way. So those three cases
don't -- don't prove what you say they prove.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia, here's why I
disagree: I picked three cases for a very specific
reason, in that each of those three cases rejected the
assertion of jurisdiction. And so that, if Chevron were
applying, the Court would have had to find that the
statute was unambiguous. And it didn't do that in any
of those cases.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And could you add that, in
those three cases -- or at least Meade, some respect was
given to the agency's due?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, absolutely.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It was just not the sort
of deference that's so wooden under Chevron.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Absolutely, Justice --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But take Meade, Mr. -- I'm
sorry. Did --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I did. I agreed with
Justice Kennedy vociferously. That was -- that was the
end of my answer.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KAGAN: And Meade presented --
whatever you think of Meade, it's a very different
question from this because what the majority in Meade
said was that the agency wasn't entitled to deference
because it was acting by way of these opinion letters
that weren't -- that didn't have the force of law. So
that's the threshold question, is does the agency have
power to make rules with the force of law, and is the
agency exercising that power?
That is a threshold question that has been
set by this Court. It's a very different kind of
question from provision by provision, subsection by
subsection, did -- did Congress think that the agency
had authority over this particular subject matter or
not.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. I have two -- I have
three answers. They will be brief. Louisiana Public
Service Commission and Adams Fruit are as I described
them. The reason that Meade is helpful to me is on a
different axis than you've described. And that is that
the agency there had a general -- generally applicable
authority in which it could have urged that its
authority to issue those rule-makings, that it was
entitled to deference on its view of its power to issue
rulings with the force of law.
But the third thing that I want to say
is let me just take --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Before you get to that, I'm
really surprised at your response to Justice Kennedy,
that you agree that, even where the agency has no
jurisdiction, although you won't give Chevron deference,
you will give whatever the other kind of deference.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Skidmore.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would you give Skidmore
deference, if some non-jurisdictional agency comes in
and says, hey, by the way, court -- you know, I think
this is the right answer? Oh, we will listen to that
respectfully. We won't necessarily give you Chevron --
why would you give it any deference at all, if there is
no jurisdiction?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Because, Justice Scalia,
Skidmore deference is, as you know, of course -- and you
have been a very -- a very powerful critic of it,
obviously, in your opinions -- that it is the -- you
give the agency the respect of the persuasiveness of its
opinion. And I took -- or I -- the part of the comment
that I was agreeing with Justice Kennedy was -- is, as
Justice Ginsburg has suggested, the FCC understands the
Communications Act.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you might also have
said, it seems to me, that that assumes the issue --
assumes the premise.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The question is, is there
jurisdiction or not?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: And that -- that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If you say, when there is
no jurisdiction, why do you give deference, that -- that
assumes the very step -- the very question we are trying
to resolve.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's all you think
that Skidmore deference means? You will listen to
opinions that make sense, right?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We -- the Court has -- I am
quoting the Court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But just to agency
opinions, it makes sense, not to --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It more than makes sense,
Justice Scalia. I think that there -- there is a
common-sense element to this, and that is that the FCC,
we recognize that it has its expertise. The question is
do we have to -- when the statute is ambiguous, as it
will often be, do we have to accept, as a matter of law,
their view that they do have jurisdiction?
I do want to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Goldstein, in
following that, it seems to me you -- you are basing
your argument on what is said in 7(a). And that
preserves the authority of the local governments. But
the provision that we are talking about is (b), and (b)
says limitations, authority that the local governments
do not have, and among those limitations is that they
have to act within a reasonable time.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Okay.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I just don't understand
how the FCC's general rule-making authority is removed
as to a provision that limits what the State and local
governments can do.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: All right. You and
Justice Breyer have encouraged me to get to the merits
question, so let me turn the corner, if I might, to how
we think a court would look at this question de novo.
We have two points. One is the statutory
provision, and this is going to be at pages 1 and 2 of
the cert petition, if you have that copy in front of
you.
The statute -- and so, Justice Ginsburg, I
am going to answer your question, but I want to make a
couple of quick points about our offensive argument
about why it is Congress didn't intend the FCC to
implement the statute with the force of law.
It begins with preservation of local zoning
authority. Subsection (a) says, "Except as provided in
this paragraph, nothing in this Act" -- which includes
Section 201(b) -- "shall limit or affect the authority
of a State or local government with respect to this
subject matter."
Then, in Subsection (b)(5) --
Justice Ginsburg, you said the essence of the statute is
(b). In subsection (b)(5), Congress located the
enforcement power of this statute in the courts.
"Any" -- and this is it at the bottom of 2, "Any person
adversely affected by any final action or failure to act
by a State or local government or any instrumentality
thereof" --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you are -- you are
skipping over (2), which is the phrase "reasonable
time."
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I -- I could read the whole
thing, Justice Ginsburg. My point is going to be that
that "reasonable period of time" phrase is enforced
through the courts. Now, Congress --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Just -- just on a
practical level --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- what sense does it
make to read this to say that each time there is a
dispute that comes to the Court, the Court will decide
in that particular case, with no guide at all, what the
reasonable time is?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I -- I will, now, turn to
that question. It makes enormous sense, and it was
explained by the conferees in the conference report at
page 209 of the petition appendix. And what happened
here is that -- that the House version of the bill
instructed the FCC to conduct a rule-making and the
rule-making would set standards for establishing a
reasonable period of time.
The Senate came along, which had no such
provision and said, no, we are going to have a provision
that, instead, says that nothing else in the Act will
apply to this question; that you will go to the courts,
rather than to have a rule-making, the rule-making must
be canceled, and then explained its intent. And so if I
could just read that to you, very quickly --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose I didn't know that,
and I'm just looking at the text, okay?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There are innumerable
statutes which, after giving of the agency rule-making
authority, provide judicial -- you know, review under
this statute shall be held in such-and-such a court.
There is no conflict whatever between a
statement that any person affected can sue in Federal
court and the possession by an agency of rule-making
authority. The -- the two simply don't conflict.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia, I -- my
point is that it is a point in our favor, particularly
when you compare -- (b)(5) has two parts, in addition to
the statutory history, which was -- told the FCC to
cancel the rule-making on this point. Subsection (b)(5)
says, you go -- on the reasonable period of time
provision, you go to the courts; and, on questions
related to radio frequency emissions, which is also
covered by (c)(7)(A), you go to the FCC.
And what the conferees explained, quite
clearly, Justice Ginsburg, is that you can have two
different visions of what reasonable period of time is.
And that is a general -- this is -- the first one is
what the FCC you would expect to implement, and that is
a reasonable period of time is a general national
standard, a kind of baseline.
What they said is a presumption of 90 or
150 days. And that's what we think, generally, the FCC
will decide how long it takes to act on a wireless
application. Or you could think about reasonable period
of time as within the locality, and that is, is the
locality following its ordinary standards for resolving
siting applications and not discriminating against
wireless applications.
And that -- the latter is what Congress
intended. And it makes every sense in the world, in the
context of this statute, that Congress wanted that
because, first, it has always been the case that State
and local -- that wireless siting and all siting
decisions are decided by localities, not by the Federal
government --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you know -- how do
you know when it's 30 days after a failure to act?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That, Justice Ginsburg --
just to put this in context, the government says that
the FCC was concerned that the wireless companies
wouldn't know when to go to court. They cite no case in
which that was ever an issue, neither the wireless
companies, nor them. And --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I wouldn't know when
to go to court.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Because it's a continuing
violation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me -- let me ask you
this: Suppose there is a provision of this statute
which is very difficult to understand.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does that bear on the
Chevron Step Zero analysis on the question of what you
call jurisdiction?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It does, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. It seems, to
me, that Justice Ginsburg identifies a real point. I
was looking at this statute, and I say -- you know, how
do I know when this agency has failed to act? I
don't -- that's a very obscure data point.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Two things, Justice
Kennedy. First is I will tell you that Congress
consciously used phrases, "reasonable period of time"
and "substantial evidence contained in a written
record" -- those are the subdivisions of subparagraph
(b), which Justice Ginsburg was pointing to, because
those are judicially administered standards.
And I will just read you one sentence from
the conference report. "The phrase 'substantial
evidence contained in a written record' is the
actions," the agency here being the locality.
And, Justice Kennedy, on your
question and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where does that say
anything about what you just read about what is a
reasonable time?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was that at 209?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That was at 210,
Justice Kennedy.
There is a similar passage relating to
"reasonable period of time." It's quite clear. I
believe -- the conference report is four or five pages
long.
When you have the opportunity to read it
again, I think you will see that Congress was adopting
local standards, local -- a local approach to deciding
this question, against a broader framework.
Can I just answer Justice Kennedy's --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Goldstein, could you
go back to the question presented?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I have read a lot of
briefs in this case, and I don't have any idea what to
tell a lower court.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How to articulate the
tests or how to apply it.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Given that you started
with saying, it's almost impossible to talk about what's
jurisdictional and what's an application of
jurisdiction. So articulate the test, and tell me what
I tell the lower courts.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The lower courts decide de
novo whether the agency was given the power to interpret
a particular provision with the force of law. That's
the entry point question -- the threshold question. All
of this works --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that's what the court
here did. It looked at the Communications Act. It
said, it has the power --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It did not --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- to pass regulations
with respect to this Act. There is no clear exception.
I -- I still haven't quite understood, other
than in the academic literature, what the difference
between Step Zero and Step One is. And so there is an
ambiguity, and, now, the agency is given deference.
So where in this conversation is there --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Here's where it went
wrong -- here's where it went wrong: It looked at the
statute. It found the relationship between 332(c)(7)
and 201(b) ambiguous. And, when it found ambiguity,
then it said it was compelled to accept the FCC's
reading. It did not resolve that ambiguity itself, as
it would in any other case involving statutory
construction.
Before I sit down, Justice Kennedy and
Justice Ginsburg have raised the point that the
government did, that when does someone know when to go
to court? AND the only part of my answer
I got in was that there are no cases identifying that as
a problem, and the reason is that it's a continuing
violation.
No communications provider, so far as we are
aware, was ever thrown out of court for coming in too
late, for a failure to act, because every day the State
and locality didn't act is regarded as an alleged
violation, and it doesn't take away from jurisdiction to
go to court. There are no cases that support their
concern.
If I could reserve the remainder of my time?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General Verrilli?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
Let me start with a central point that I
think cuts through most of the arguments that Petitioner
has made this morning.
Chevron does apply to a court's review of an
agency's determination of ITS jurisdiction, but only
after a court concludes that Congress has delegated to
the agency, generally, the authority to make rules
carrying the force of law and that the rule in question
was promulgated in exercise of that authority.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: As -- as to that specific
provision?
GENERAL VERRILLI: No, in general. I think
that the language this Court used, taken from Meade,
last term in Astrue, in the unanimous opinion for the
Court in Mayo the term before, was is the authority --
is -- is the agency vested with authority, generally, to
make rules with the force of law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's right,
but your argument it seems, to me, can't be -- let's say
you have a general statute, and you've got a provision
at the beginning that says this is -- authority to
interpret this is delegated to the agency.
And you go along, but then, all of a sudden,
in -- you know, Section 123, it says it doesn't get any
deference interpreting this provision. Now, you would
not say that the first general one controls the specific
withdrawal of deference, would you?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I would not,
Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. You would say
you don't get deference on 123. And, as I understand
the case -- and that's why I persist in thinking there's
no great disagreement here, your friend on the other
side is saying that, particularly given 7(a) and some
other things, you should read 7(b)(2) as if Congress had
said, Agency, you don't get any deference here.
You can read it that way, they say, because
7(a) says nothing shall limit what the State can do,
other than what's here in the statute. And, if you let
the FCC -- if you give them deference, you're letting
something else limit what the State can do.
So why -- and then you dispute, it seems to
me, just whether that you should call that jurisdiction
or not because people think of jurisdiction as meaning,
oh, you don't get through the door. But, if what they
mean by jurisdiction is simply that the agency gets no
deference on this point, then it seems to me everybody's
saying the same thing.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I'm not sure I
agree with that, Mr. Chief Justice, because I think the
point here is that to the extent -- once you've
satisfied that general threshold that I identified, then
to the extent there is ambiguity -- if the statute is
clear -- and in Your Honor's hypothetical I'd submit the
statute is clear at that point, that the agency -- that
the agency's authority has been carved out with respect
to that particular provision.
If it's clear, you don't get to the question
of whether there's any deference due. The issue arises
when there's ambiguity. And our position is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ambiguity in the
provision that says, Agency, you get no deference? Or
ambiguity in the substantive provision at issue?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Either one because --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but, if
there's no ambiguity on the provision that says you get
no deference, then it doesn't matter whether there's
ambiguity on the subsidiary one, right?
GENERAL VERRILLI: That -- that's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But if there is ambiguity
on the first, our position is that Chevron applies and
that the agency gets deference, so long as it's a
permissible construction of the statute. And that's
true whether you call it jurisdiction and -- or whether
you call it substance.
And one reason for that, Mr. Chief Justice,
is that I don't think there is -- I do think this is
really a Pandora's Box situation. I do not think there
is a clear, neat dividing line between what my friend,
Mr. Goldstein, describes as a jurisdictional issue, an
issue of interpretive authority, and a question of
substance.
And I think you can see that in the briefing
in this case. Mr. Goldstein has tried to define
jurisdiction in a particular way; the IMLA has defined
it in a very different way. They say any question that
goes to the who, what, when, or where of an agency's
assertion of authority is a jurisdictional question, as
to which agencies get no Chevron deference in the course
of ambiguity.
And the reason that IMLA gives for stating
that position is exactly the same reason that Mr.
Goldstein gives for stating his position, which is that
you're talking about an agency action in excess of the
scope of its delegated authority, and, once you say
that, there's no Chevron deference.
And I would respectfully submit, once you
have got a situation in which it is clear that the
agency has general authority to implement and the
argument is whether its authority to implement has, with
respect to a particular provision, has been carved out,
at that point, Chevron deference is appropriate, and
that is the practice of this Court in repeated numbers
of cases.
American Hospital Association is certainly
one such case where the -- the NLRB had general
rule-making authority. There was a statutory provision
that said bargaining units needed to be determined by
the NLRB in each case. And the argument was made that
that ought to be understood as a carveout from the
NLRB's general authority requiring case-by-case
decisionmaking with respect to bargaining units.
And the Court rejected that argument, saying
that -- that, in that case, whatever ambiguity there was
in the statute ought to be resolved under Chevron in
favor of the agency.
Schor -- CFTC v. Schor is a comparable case.
And I would submit Iowa Utilities Board is a case --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. General,
let's go back to the question presented and break down
your argument.
Is it your position that what the Court asks
first is whether Congress has spoken clearly on the
agency having authority or not? Is that subject to de
novo review?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Our position -- let me
walk through the steps of our position and how we answer
the question presented.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. But tell me
what -- what gets deference when and what's subject to
de novo review.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Here's our answer to the
question presented, Justice Sotomayor: That there is de
novo review of the question of whether Congress has
delegated authority to the agency, generally, to act
with the force of law and whether the interpretation
claiming deference is an exercise of that delegated
authority.
Once that is satisfied under de novo review,
Chevron kicks in. Now, Step One of Chevron is, of
course, de novo review using the normal tools of
statutory construction to answer the question whether
Congress has spoken clearly on the issue of whether the
agency has authority. If the answer is that Congress
has, then that disposes of the case.
If Congress hasn't, then one moves to Step
Two of Chevron and asks whether the agency's
interpretation of the provision at issue, whether you
call it substantive or whether you call it jurisdiction,
is a permissible construction. Is it within the bounds
of what the language can reasonably accommodate it?
And, if it is, the agency is upheld.
That's the way we think the issue in this
case should be analyzed. That's the way we think every
issue should be analyzed under Chevron. We think that's
what this case is -- this Court's cases say. We think
this is what the Court uniformly and routinely does in
analyzing these questions. I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So deal with the three
cases he mentioned.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Louisiana Public Service
Commission, a little bit of confusion, I think, about
that case. That case was decided in 1986. Congress
added the sections Mr. Goldstein referred to, 251 and
252 of -- of the Communications Act, in 1996. And what
Louisiana Public Service Commission did was define the
outer limits of the Commission's authority.
It said nothing shall be -- nothing in this
Act shall give or -- shall be construed to give the
commission authority or jurisdiction over intrastate
communications, so it was an express carveout.
That seems, to me, had you had run that
through the Chevron analysis, it'd be a pretty
straightforward Chevron Step One case.
Adams Fruit, the - the Court held
specifically in Adams Fruit that the plain meaning of
the statutory provision at issue foreclosed the agency's
interpretation. And that's at 494 U.S., at page 646.
So that was a Chevron Step One case.
It then did go on to say, with respect to
Chevron Step Two, that, even if we were going to think
about granting the agency deference here, they wouldn't
get it.
But I think the reasons -- if you map the
reasoning of Adams Fruit onto this case, it supports our
position and not Mr. Goldstein's. What the Court said
in Adams Fruit was that the Department of Labor did have
the authority to implement the substantive provisions of
the Agricultural Workers Protection Act, including the
substantive provisions governing motor vehicle safety.
What it didn't have was the authority to
restrict judicial remedies available for the private
cause of action created under the statute.
Well, if you map that onto here, what the
FCC has done here with respect to the reasonable time
provision in 332(c)(7)(B) of the statute was to provide
a rule of decision for the substantive provision of the
Act, leaving to the courts the decision of what remedy,
if any, there would be for a violation of those
substantive provisions.
And so it's -- it totally maps onto -- to
the FCC's interpretation of the right way to think about
statutory authority in this case. And if I -- I'm
sorry, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what worries me about
it is you -- you and I both have, in our offices,
thousands of words which are in the U.S. Code, and there
are hundreds of thousands -- or millions of employees,
in millions of different kinds of agencies, and, if we
turn Chevron into the tax code, it's going to be a
nightmare -- in my opinion, not necessarily in that of
my colleagues.
So, as you know, I've written somewhat a
different approach. And it says, let's not do this.
But just so, who would win here? Suppose you just said,
look, what we're interested in is just one question,
whether Congress wanted a court to give, in this kind of
situation, deference to the agency. And the answer will
be, it depends. Chevron is a good rule of thumb, but it
isn't a straightjacket.
So what you'd look at here is it's the FCC
that is in charge of national communications, of which
this is part. There is a specific provision, as your
colleague points out, that says, "but don't interfere
with the States when they are citing stuff."
But then there is a limitation to that
specific provision, which consists of six or seven
parts, all of which maintain a lot of authority in the
FCC or rules about what they are not supposed to do.
And then, here, it uses the word "reasonable."
So where you have a Federal agency with
expertise that's in charge of this kind of area and they
have rule-making authority, and you have a statute like
this, which is a little bit ambiguous, but not too, in
respect to the point about whether they do
interpretation, you'd add up those factors and make a
decision.
GENERAL VERRILLI: So --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, that's such a
simple -- I mean, that's Louis Jaffe. That -- that's
the founders of administrative law. That's everybody
until we get into a straightjacket. And it isn't --
even Chevron doesn't go against us, if you don't think
of it as a straightjacket.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Two points. First,
applying that approach, I think it's pretty clear that
one would uphold the FCC's judgment here.
Second, I understand that that's Your
Honor's approach. I don't --
JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't make it up. It
was Louis Jaffe.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I understand that Your
Honor is the most recent proponent of this approach.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that's no better.
Louis Jaffe isn't even a member of the Court.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL VERRILLI: But -- but I think the
Court is in a different place. And I think the Court is
in a different place for a good reason because I think
it's our interpretation of Chevron that avoids turning
it into the complexity of the Internal Revenue Code
because I think, if you think about what my friends on
the other side are proposing here, what they're
suggesting is that, once you've cleared that initial
hurdle of deciding the agency has general authority to
implement the statute with the force of law and that
this is an exercise of that general authority and,
therefore, not --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, I think you can
show, which I will spare you at the moment, all the
cases like Meade are consistent with what I said. And
cases that are not consistent are consistent with what
Judge Friendly said years ago, where he said there is no
coherence to the Supreme Court's cases in this area;
when they like a result, they say they have deference,
and, when they don't like it, they say they don't.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I guess I would beg to
differ about that. I think our -- our view is that
Chevron does provide a stable framework for the
development of administrative law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Justice Breyer would
replace that with a rule, where they like the agency to
have authority, it has it, and, where they don't like it
to have authority, it doesn't. I'm not sure that's any
better than --
GENERAL VERRILLI: I guess -- I guess --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- a description of the
Chevron --
JUSTICE BREYER: You don't have to -- I'm
sorry I brought this up.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL VERRILLI: With respect to the
issue -- with respect to the issue that's in front of
the Court now, I think the -- I think the -- what my
friends on the other side are asking is, actually, for
an additional layer of complexity in the analysis, even
after the general authority is established to -- to make
rules with the force of law and even after it's
established that the rule at issue is -- has been done
in the exercise of that, what my friend on the other
side suggests is there is another layer of de novo
review there to answer the question of whether this
particular provision --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. Well --
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- gives authority to act
with the force of law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your friend on the
other side has another set of arguments about why you
should treat this particular provision differently, and
that is because it concerns the authority, or lack
thereof, of State and local government agencies.
Now, does that play any role at all in your
analysis.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We are not -- you
know, obviously, the dividing line between State
authority and Federal authority is a more significant
one than some of the other questions as to which
agencies get deference, which is whether rates are
reasonable or not reasonable. And this provision is
written in terms of a preservation of State authority.
And your view would give the Federal agency
deference under Chevron -- very considerable deference
in defining when there should be Federal authority and
when there should be State. Is that, at all, a
pertinent consideration?
GENERAL VERRILLI: It is definitely a
pertinent consideration, Mr. Chief Justice. And let me
talk about that in general and then move to the
specifics in this case.
In general, it's a pertinent consideration
that is accommodated within the Chevron framework. At
Chevron Step One, the Court applies the normal tools of
statutory construction. The normal tools of statutory
construction include a clear statement rule, they
include the presumption against preemption. And this
Court -- I -- one point --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Normal -- I'm sorry
I interrupt you, but the normal rules of statutory
construction include a clear statement rule?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, when the question
is whether Congress -- and let me try to view this with
a specific case, the Solid Waste of Cook County case.
That's a case in which the Court declined -- it didn't
say that that issue there was exempt from Chevron
analysis. It applied the Chevron framework.
And it said it's Step One of Chevron because
the Migratory Bird Rule pushed to the very outer limits
of Congress's commerce clause authority, that the Court
was going to apply a clear statement rule in that
situation before assuming that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Who has to -- who
has to be clear on their statement? Which way?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Congress has to be clear
in its --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That it intended to
intrude upon State authority?
GENERAL VERRILLI: That it intended to give
that authority to that extent -- exactly.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the -- the agencies
have no historic responsibility or tradition, quite
unlike Article III courts, of safeguarding the Federal
balance.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But -- but Chevron Step
One is, of course, applied by the courts,
Justice Kennedy, and that's where the protection comes
in. And with respect to this particular --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand the
question, to tell you the truth. This matter is not
left with the States. It's going to be decided by a
Federal instrumentality, right? Either by the agency,
which says, 30 days is the rule, or by Federal courts,
which perhaps could issue opinions that say, 30 days is
the rule.
I mean, this -- you know, it's an
interesting separation of powers question within the
Federal government, but I don't see how it's a question
of whether it's the States or the Federal government
that's -- that's going to call the tune here. It's
going to be the Federal government, isn't it?
GENERAL VERRILLI: That is the -- was going
to be my specific point in response to your question,
Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, it wasn't going
to be that. That -- the idea that there is no
difference between the Federal judiciary defining the
limits between the State and Federal power and having an
agency of unelected bureaucrats responsible to the
executive saying when the State controls and when the
Federal controls, those are vastly different
propositions.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, but there is a third
variable here, and that's what's key, which is, in this
situation -- in 332(c)(7)(B), the limitations provision,
Congress has spoken, unambiguously, and said that the
following limitations on local zoning authority must be
respected.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And no one has suggested
that that was at the outer limit of Congress's Commerce
Clause authority or anywhere close to it. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But they have also
said -- they have also said, in (7)(a), that those are
the only limits, not add on to this any limits that
unelected bureaucrats might decide to impose, and will
give them -- and the courts must give them vast
deference in enforcing those limits.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Unelected Federal
bureaucrats.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL VERRILLI: But I -- but I do
think -- I do think that what Justice Scalia said is
correct, that the question here is not whether the
States will decide. The question, at the end of the
day, is whether the agency will be able to exercise its
usual authority to interpret reasonable --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't -- don't you think
that the --
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- whether Federal courts
will make those decisions on a case-by-case basis upon
de novo review.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't you -- don't you
think that the issue of whether unelected Federal
bureaucrats should decide it or unelected Federal judges
should decide it is an issue of separation of powers,
rather than an issue of -- of Federal/State relations?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I do think -- in that --
in that respect, I think this case is really just like
Iowa Utilities Board, in that the argument there --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Is it
AT&T v. --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
GENERAL VERRILLI: In that -- in that -- the
argument there was that you ought not interpret the
FCC to have authority to implement particular rules
because Congress gave to State public utility
commissions the responsibility to carry out and execute
the rules and then, to Federal courts, the power to
review them and cut the FCC out.
And the argument there was that respect for
States ought to lead you to conclude not to apply
Chevron deference to the agency --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Now --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But, in rejecting
that argument in Section 2 of the opinion, the author of
that opinion in nowhere, in no place, applied Chevron
deference in answering that question.
It was entirely de novo, unlike in Section
3, when it was finally decided, okay, we've got the
answer here, and, now, we will defer to the agency on
the substance of the determination.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I -- I understand that
the Petitioners made that argument, Mr. Chief Justice.
I read the opinion differently, and, if I could, I'll
explain why.
In Section 2 and looking at pages 384 and
385 of the opinion, after the Court had established that
there was general authority, under Section 201(b), to
implement the provisions of the Act, which I do think
the Court established de novo, and we would agree that
that's appropriate, the Court then moved on to consider
these specific jurisdictional questions.
And -- and the Court looked at the provision
of the statute which gave authority to the State
commissions and then considered the -- the argument that
one ought to infer from that, that the FCC's cut out of
the process.
And the -- the opinion of the Court says,
"We think this attributes to that task a greater degree
of autonomy than the phrase 'establish any rates'
necessarily implies."
It seems to me what the Court was saying
there -- and then, on the next page, says something very
similar about the next argument that the -- that the
challengers were making in that case. And I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does it cite --
GENERAL VERRILLI: It does not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- in Part 2, which
is --
GENERAL VERRILLI: It does not, Mr. Chief
Justice, but --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10 pages of
analysis of the Chevron case?
GENERAL VERRILLI: It does not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does it say they are
applying Chevron deference?
GENERAL VERRILLI: It does not. But the
conclusion -- I think my -- my friend has suggested that
we weren't accurate in our discussion of the -- the
concluding paragraph of this phrase. But I would like
to turn the Court's attention to that because I think we
were. This is at page 397 of the opinion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
GENERAL VERRILLI: There is a sentence that
starts, "The 1996 Act can be read to grant most
promiscuous rights to the FCC vis-a-vis the State
commissions and to competing carriers vis-a-vis the
incumbents, and the Commission has chosen, in some
instances, to read it that way, but Congress is well
aware that the ambiguities it chooses to produce in the
statute will be resolved by the implementing agency. We
can only enforce the clear limits that the 1996 Act
contains, which, in the present case, invalidate only
Rule 319."
Now, the jurisdictional dispute was the
dispute between the FCC -- the FCC vis-a-vis the State
commissions over who had the authority to implement the
rules.
So, while I -- I agree, Mr. Chief Justice,
that Chevron is not cited in that Section 2 of the
opinion, the tenor of that discussion does seem to me to
say that the Court was looking, once it had established
general authority, for clear evidence that Congress had
intended to carve out, from that general authority, the
particular provisions at issue and because the -- the
provisions to which the challengers pointed did not
necessarily imply an intent on the part of Congress to
carve it out, that the Court wasn't going to find a
carveout.
So I do think that, really, the analysis in
Iowa Utilities Board is quite consistent with that --
JUSTICE BREYER: I -- I dissented in that, I
think.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, you had a different
view.
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. And so I agree with
you, this flows a fortiori from the majority.
But I didn't think -- and this is what I
wonder -- is -- you say unelected Federal bureaucrats.
Administrative law is about Federal administration.
That is Federal administrative law.
And I've heard, here, people say we're
talking about them adding something. I didn't think
that's what was at issue. I thought that there is a
word in the statute, "reasonable," and what the
administrators did at the FCC was to interpret that
word. Am I right or wrong?
GENERAL VERRILLI: That -- that's certainly
how we understand the situation, Justice Breyer, that
the agency does what agencies do.
JUSTICE BREYER: What was added? What was
added?
GENERAL VERRILLI: It interpreted the
meaning of the language "reasonable time," to give it
more precise content, to allow -- to deal with the
failure to act situation --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you -- can you tell
me, what is -- what is the ambiguity? Because I looked
at (b). (B) is limitations. Limitations is on the
State, and then it uses the phrase of what the State
cannot do. The State has to conform to a reasonable
time. What is ambiguous about this?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, our view, Justice
Ginsburg, is that there isn't any ambiguity, that
the -- that the rule ought to be upheld, no matter what
standard of review applies, in fairness to my friends on
the other side. But I do think this points up the
problems going down the road they are suggesting is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I -- I thought
"reasonable" was what people were talking about as being
ambiguous, although I think -- I don't think "ambiguous"
is the proper word. "Reasonable" is vague. You don't
know exactly what it means, right?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I took that -- I think
that's it's -- it's, certainly, susceptible to further
elaboration in that sense. But I took Justice Ginsburg
to be asking me about the ambiguity with respect to the
authority of the (7)(A) --
JUSTICE BREYER: Reasonable -- reasonable is
uncertain who. Who has -- it doesn't tell us who had
the authority.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. And, in fairness
to my friends and as the Chief Justice has just
indicated, it's an inference from (7)(A), and I suppose
an inference from (7)(B)(v), and that -- and that the
courts are in the process.
But I do think this points up the difficulty
is that, if you -- if you look at the provision that the
FCC's actually implementing here, it's not a
jurisdictional provision; it's a normal substantive
standard. The FCC is giving it more precise content.
That's what an agency's job is. It's doing its job
here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're talking about
(7)(B)?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, (7)(B)(ii), right,
exactly.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. What is there
about (7)(A) that you think is ambiguous?
GENERAL VERRILLI: We think it's -- it's
clear that the FCC has authority, given (7)(A), because
of the "except as provided in this paragraph" argument.
It's, I think, our friends on the other side who say
that it's (7)(A) that creates uncertainty about whether
the FCC has the authority to implement the reasonable
time provision in (7)(B)(ii) -- and I think that points
up the problem of adding this additional step to the
analysis.
Once the Court has satisfied itself that the
agency has general rule-making authority, it's not going
to be hard to cobble together inferences to make
arguments on de novo review that the -- that the agency
lacked the authority to implement a particular provision
with the force of law.
And I think you're adding needless
complexity, and I do think -- the reason I suggested,
earlier, that I think this is a Pandora's Box is because
I do not think there's, at the end of the day, a
principled line that can be drawn between what my friend
describes as interpretive authority questions and the
kind of who, what, when, where substantive questions --
substantive jurisdictional questions that Respondent
IMLA is focused on.
In each of those situations, the argument is
that the agency has acted in excess of its statutory
authority. And, if that's sufficient to justify de novo
review in the first instance, it's sufficient to justify
de novo review in the second instance.
And, if that's the case, then I would submit
that you have really unravelled Chevron. The -- the
good work that that -- that that doctrine does to
stabilize the development of administrative law is gone.
There will be an argument in every case
that -- that de novo review is required, and, in every
case in which a court agrees that de novo review is
required, once the court has interpreted the statute as
a matter of de novo review, then you have ossification
of the administrative process because that
interpretation is locked in.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but, I mean,
your argument there is basically saying, when the
statute says something is reasonable, it means that the
Commission doesn't have -- it's a jurisdictional
question whether it's reasonable or unreasonable.
But it seems to me that this provision is
quite a bit different. It talks about the authority of
a State. And, usually, when we are talking about the
authority of which entity can -- can govern, we view
that as jurisdictional.
There may well be cases at the margin that
are -- that are difficult. But -- but your argument is,
basically, reasonable or unreasonable is the same as
State or Federal.
GENERAL VERRILLI: No, I don't think it is,
Mr. Chief Justice. I think the -- the federalism values
are important, but I do think, as the -- as the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. I'm not
talking about the federalism values. I'm talking about
your argument that, oh, once you say you can draw a
jurisdictional line here, people will argue you can draw
it everywhere.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I do -- I do think
that's true, and I think that the arguments that are
being made by my friends on the other side demonstrate
that. But I guess what I would say, in this situation,
in particular, is that -- that we're really not -- the
fact that it does involve the Federal and State
authorities doesn't change the analysis because,
applying Chevron in the normal way, one would not
conclude that Congress has spoken clearly and -- and
restricted the agency's authority.
And there is no means -- there's no basis to
apply a clear statement rule here because Congress,
clearly, had the authority to impose the limitations
that it imposed in Subsection (B). And those are direct
limitations on the State authority, and Congress made
that judgment.
It isn't the agency wading on -- in on its
own to decide that State or local authorities should be
subject to limitations.
These are judgments that Congress made, and
the agency is implementing them in very much the same
way that the Court found it was appropriate for the
agency to implement the preemptive scope of the word
"interest" in the National Bank Act in the Smiley case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Verrilli, why isn't it
an easy answer to the whole case to read (7)(A), except
as provided in this paragraph, nothing in this chapter
shall limit or affect the authority of State or local
government? Okay? "Except as provided in this
paragraph."
And then later, in the paragraph, in the
subsection entitled, "limitations," it says, "A State or
local government shall act on any request for
authorization within a reasonable period of time."
GENERAL VERRILLI: That's why -- that's
why -- that's our --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- that's a
limitation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, that's exactly
right. That limits it. And -- and the question then
is, of course, whether that's enforced in court --
enforced in court or before the agency; right?
GENERAL VERRILLI: No. I think the question
is whether the agency has the authority to flesh out the
substantive standard that the court will subsequently
apply --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, whether the --
whether the standard is defined in -- by -- through
direct judicial review or by the agency, with deference
to the agency.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I agree with
Justice Scalia because -- because I do think that, no
matter what view of the matter the Court takes, the
FCC's rule ought to be upheld. But I do think that
the -- the position my friends on the other side are
advocating threaten to unravel the -- the Chevron
framework and destabilize administrative law.
And I would urge the Court not to do it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, if the -- if
the agency had said reasonable is 30 days, period, and
not done what it did, which was create a rebuttable
presumption, would that have been appropriate? Would we
have had to uphold that? And, if not --
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How would we have struck
it down? What step --
GENERAL VERRILLI: You -- you would analyze
that under Step Two of Chevron, Justice Sotomayor. You
decide whether that's a permissible construction of the
statute, whether it's reasonable or whether it's
arbitrary and capricious, that would depend on what the
record looked like. But, certainly, a court would
exercise review over that matter.
If the Court has nothing further?
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Goldstein, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Chevron is at an end.
It's unravelled.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I -- I've heard, and I
regret that I have contributed to such a horror. This
is silliness.
(Laughter.)
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The Court has -- we have
cited to you 17 cases of yours in which you have always
looked at the entry point question de novo, and on
the -- the idea that we're making this more complicated
makes no sense to me because what the government
wants -- and you see this in the Fifth Circuit's
decision -- is a surround of Chevron on whether they
have authority.
Go through that entire process, and then go
through it again, assuming that you do believe they have
that authority. There's not a step that we're adding to
the inquiry.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Goldstein, I
think, with respect, it's not silliness. You have been
running as fast as you can away from the arguments that
IMLA has presented, that, in every case, it's a who,
what, where -- you know, or how question and that we
have to answer that.
But the question that General Verrilli
raises, I think, is a fair question, is how your
argument, which says that we have to consider in each
case as to each statutory provision whether an agency
has interpretive authority is any different from IMLA's
argument that we have to consider with -- in respect to
every case whether we're dealing with a when, what, who,
where question, or a how question. It's the same
argument; isn't it?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, it is not. This Court
has said, time and again, including in Meade, that the
precondition to the application of Meade is a
determination that Congress delegated authority to the
agency to interpret the statute with the force of law.
And that has to be asked in every single
case, and that is a distinct inquiry. Once you decide
that they have that delegated authority over that
provision, then, as -- as this Court has done in every
case --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Of course, there's a
threshold question, but the threshold question has
always been is the agency interpreting its organic
statute and is -- does that statute give the agency
rule-making authority and is that what the agency is
exercising?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We are at loggerheads,
Justice Kagan. I believe that Louisiana Public Service
Commission and Adams Fruit are just simply contrary to
that. It also doesn't make any sense to believe that
Congress gave the agency this 201(b) authority and then
implicitly gave the agency the authority to decide how
far 201(b) extends. This is just a question-begging
exercise.
They say we have this general authority. I
ask, does that general authority apply to this
particular provision in the Act? And they say, well,
our general authority gives us the power to answer even
that question, and that is not correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I guess I'm still
waiting for -- for the -- the way in which your inquiry
is different from IMLA's inquiry.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It is because I am only
asking the threshold question, did Congress give the
agency the power to interpret this statutory provision
with a question of law?
And that is a different -- I'll give you an
illustration, and that is there is an extended
discussion of this question in the FCC's order. It had
no difficulty identifying that as a separate inquiry. I
did want to just turn to the merits -- let me just say
that the Solicitor General's argument about whether the
201(b) authority extends to 332(c)(7) is a great
illustration of our argument on the question presented
because that's a lawyer's argument.
There was not a word that my friend said
about there was a technical question of communications
law and how wireless siting facilities operate. That's
the kind of question that Congress gives to agencies.
It is not the threshold lawyer's issue, does this
statute read this far?
I would only encourage you, on the merits
question, which is not included in the question
presented, which you didn't grant certiorari on, that
is, the application of de novo review to this statute,
to pay more attention than, I think, this argument has
given it because it wasn't the core issue briefed in the
case, obviously, to what Congress did in this statute.
There was a version of the statute that gave
the FCC the very authority that it is claiming here.
That was the House version of the bill that was rejected
in Congress, in conference, Congress adopted this
version, ordered the FCC to cancel the rule-making and
reserve this power to the courts, the -- the authority
to decide what is a reasonable period of time.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
63:15 10:17,21 11:3 50:8 51:22 analyze 58:25 arguing 12:16
16:7 56:25 57:4,6 36:10 3:2,5,8 4:3,8
administrative agency's 11:1,13 22:1 27:19 48:1,9,21 49:5
51:12,13 55:4 17:18 30:9 35:22,24 38:23 55:5,13,23
51:18 53:14 56:18 answering 48:3 62:12,14,15
9:2,21 63:7 agree 10:18 19:8 APPEARAN... arguments 6:5
11:4 adopting 27:16 32:4 48:16 1:25 30:6 42:13
12:4,6,12 advanced 4:15 50:16 51:8 appendix 23:12 54:9 56:10
14:14 adversely 22:16 58:9 applicable 18:24 60:8
20:2 advocating agreed 17:25 application 25:4 arises 32:13
22:7,16 58:14 agreeing 19:25 28:7 60:23 Arlington 1:3
25:3,17 affect 22:8 57:11 agrees 55:7 62:25 4:4
28:16,20 agencies 33:19 agricultural applications Article 44:17
35:15 38:14 42:16,24 16:3 37:19 25:7,8 articulate 28:2,8
37:19 44:15 51:22 AL 1:3,7,17 applied 44:1,20 articulated 9:20
42:10 62:19 alleged 10:7 48:2 articulation
50:2,9 agency 6:14 29:19 applies 33:1 15:16
57:7,16 9:24 10:9 11:3 allow 52:2 43:13 52:13 asked 7:17,24
11:22,22 12:18 Alpha 6:7 apply 23:20 28:3 61:1
33:24 17:3 18:7,10 29:4,6 32:7,14 applying 17:13 assertion 5:21
18:12,16,24 32:15,17,20,22 40:1 49:18 12:25 17:12
37:5,6 26:14 27:1 52:24 approach 15:16 34:10
61:14 28:11,24 30:11 ambiguous 27:17 38:19 assume 8:1
31:25 32:9,16 39:14 52:9,18 approached 20:12
51:23,24 34:21 35:4,15 American 15:18 appropriate 44:6 60:3
60:4 37:12 38:23 analysis 26:8 57:5 58:20 attention 49:23
57:1 B 6:10,23 7:2,4 12:5,13 13:24 30:8 33:1,19
6:15 22:11,13,13 38:9,10 39:19 17:2 23:7 35:20,20 36:2
10:23 24:12,14 26:21 40:5,24 41:11 25:12,21 27:24 36:10 37:3,4,9
30:1 52:6,6 41:19 47:24 29:7 31:11 37:11 38:15,24
13:9,11 53:7,17,18 51:4,8,21,23 33:14 34:11,14 39:23 40:15
14:1 54:3 56:22 53:1 34:19,22,23 41:9,18 43:3
16:2 back 27:21 brief 18:20 35:25 36:9,11 43:12,13,25
34:25 briefed 63:2 36:18,18 37:4 44:1,2,19
19:1 balance 44:18 briefing 33:13 37:9,15 38:8 47:23 48:2
22:6 Bank 57:7 briefs 27:24 43:10,23,23,24 49:15,18 50:17
24:4,9 bargaining broad 4:16 5:11 47:8 49:6,15 55:2 56:16
34:13,17 broadcast 6:18 50:10 55:1,5,7 58:14 59:1,13
32:10 baseline 24:25 broader 27:18 57:7,9 60:9,15 59:25
basically 55:13 brought 41:20 60:18 61:2,5 Chief 4:3,10
55:24 bureaucrats 63:3,13,14 12:15 13:3,7
basing 21:5 45:18 46:10,14 cases 15:14,20 13:13 29:24
37:18 basis 46:25 47:4 51:11 16:13,19 17:7 30:3,22 31:8,9
38:8 56:19 17:10,11,15,17 32:4,15,19,24
40:20 bear 26:7 C 29:13,21 34:9 33:6 42:9,12
41:13,14 beg 41:7 c 2:1 3:1,3,9 4:1 36:11,15 41:1 42:20 43:8,18
beginning 4:17 4:8 24:18 41:2,4 55:22 44:7,11 45:13
43:1,4 30:25 59:11 59:20 45:14 46:3,7
begins 22:5 cabinet 12:23 case-by-case 47:10,13,25
behalf 2:1,4 3:4 cable 1:11 6:16 34:16 46:25 48:9 49:7,9,11
48:14,20 3:7,10 4:9 30:2 6:17 cause 37:23 49:13,17,25
59:12 call 4:24 5:1 central 30:5 50:16 53:5,16
53:3,23 believe 4:18 6:11 10:25 cert 21:23 53:20 55:12
14:10 27:13 13:15 26:9 certainly 10:5 56:2,4 57:22
55:18,20 60:3 61:13,15 31:22 33:4,5 34:10 51:20 58:5 59:9
best 12:1,13 36:4,4 45:9 52:22 59:5 63:12
58:2 15:18 called 4:25 9:14 certiorari 5:17 chooses 50:7
better 40:9 cancel 24:14 7:12 8:5 12:24 chosen 50:5
41:15 63:8 62:24 circuit 5:3,20,21
beyond 10:23 canceled 23:22 CFTC 34:22 Circuit's 59:24
63:5,9 bill 23:13 63:6 capricious 59:4 challengers 49:6 cite 25:21 49:7
bit 36:17 39:14 carry 5:13 47:18 change 56:15 59:20
bounds 36:5 carveout 34:15 8:15 9:23 claims 4:20
28:20 29:16 36:20 31:14 35:3,14 45:19,20 22:14,25 23:20
33:9 37:1 39:2 35:23,24 36:1 conversation 24:16 28:9,10
40:1 62:17 36:18 38:22 28:25 38:3 44:17,20
44:5 companies 43:22 44:9 Cook 43:23 45:2 46:11,24
50:9,20 25:20,23 45:25 47:17 copy 21:23 47:19 53:8
56:20 comparable 50:6,20,24 core 63:2 63:9
56:17
competing 50:4 63:3,7,7 46:18 61:24 49:23
complicated consciously count 6:6 creates 54:1
concerned 9:11 considerable course 6:20 cuts 30:6
44:21 conclude 47:22 43:6,8,11 57:24 61:6 D 4:1
49:22 41:2,2 51:3 15:22 16:4,8 days 25:2,17
4:5 5:10 49:20 consolidated 4:6 18:14 19:14 de 10:2 15:22
12:5 concurrence construction 20:17,18 21:20 21:20 28:10
18:21 10:6 29:8 33:3 23:6,6 24:5,8
55:15 conferees 23:11 43:14,15,20 28:15 29:12,17 47:1 48:4,16
24:19 59:2 29:21 30:4,10 54:9,23,25
48:21 23:11 26:24 contained 26:19 34:18 35:2 62:25
27:13 63:7 26:25 36:12 37:5,16 deal 10:20 36:14
36:22 24:6,9 content 52:2 40:13 41:24 dealing 5:9
confused 16:25 context 25:11,19 44:4 48:13,16 deals 9:23
Congress 6:4,20 continuing 26:1 49:3 50:19,25 decide 5:5,18
4:5,21 13:8,19 14:2,6 contrary 16:14 57:5,24,25
17:1
12:4
18:16 61:14 58:3,11,16 23:6 25:3
46:10,19 35:15,17 60:24 disagreement enforced 22:24 59:6 61:19
57:1
31:12 57:24,25 exercising 18:12
61:2,17 demonstrate discretionary enforcement 61:11
56:11 6:5,14 22:14 expect 24:23
25:14 37:17 25:7 enormous 23:10 expertise 20:24
44:25 depend 59:4 discussion 9:16 entire 60:2 39:12
depends 38:24 49:21 50:18 entirely 48:4 explain 48:11
18:23 disposes 35:25 14:23 15:12 23:22 24:19
59:25 54:17 23:6 31:21 57:15 extend 11:22
16:20 dissented 51:4 entry 10:13 11:2 extended 62:8
41:17 dividing 33:9 59:21 62:13
12:21,25 16:14 30:9 DONALD 2:3 establish 8:18
14:9
60:24 3:6 30:1 9:1 13:19 49:1 facilities 62:18
15:4,12 determined door 31:24 established 42:2
17:1
draw 9:9,9 56:6 42:4 48:13,16 56:14
18:7 development 56:7 50:19
55:4 drawn 9:11 establishing 39:16
20:11 differ 41:8 54:16 23:15 failed 26:14
28:24 difference 28:22 dressed 13:5 ET 1:3,7,17 failure 22:16
45:16 due 17:18 32:13 everybody 25:17 29:18
32:1,13 different 4:13 D.C 1:19 2:1,4 39:21 52:3
33:2 4:14,15 9:4 everybody's fair 60:13
34:1,7 13:24 18:5,14 E 32:1 fairness 52:13
37:12 18:23 24:21 E 3:1 4:1,1 evidence 26:19 53:4
41:5 33:16 38:14,19 earlier 54:14 26:25 50:20 fall 14:14
43:3,3 40:13,14 45:20 easy 13:17 57:9 exactly 33:22 far 14:1,3 29:16
47:23 51:6 55:18 eight 49:14 44:14 52:20 61:18 62:21
49:18 60:16 62:2,7 Either 32:18 53:19 57:22 fast 60:8
differently 45:1 example 12:1,13 favor 24:11
difficult 26:5 11:20 52:23 exception 28:20 FCC 4:20 5:4
difficulty 53:9 emissions 24:17 33:24 54:22 9:1,20 10:16
direct 56:22 encourage 15:17 executive 45:19 12:3,25 13:9
33:25 15:14 17:10 enforce 50:9 42:5 46:20 24:23 25:2,20
37:25 following 12:23 31:7 32:3,6,18 62:7 28:1,4,10,18
47:16 21:5 25:6 46:1 32:23,25 34:4 given 10:20 29:1 33:10,14
50:3,13 force 4:22 9:25 34:11,16,24 17:18 28:5,11 33:23 36:19
51:18 13:1 18:9,11 35:6,12 36:16 28:24 31:13 59:10,11,15,19
54:2 19:3 22:4 39:18,25 40:7 53:23 63:2 60:6,21 61:12
28:12 30:12,21 40:12,20,22 gives 33:21,23 62:3
14:15 42:3,11 54:11 42:2,10,19 62:19 37:16
29:5 60:25 43:7,9,11,21 giving 13:8 24:3 good 10:20
40:2 foreclosed 37:7 44:9,13,19 53:13 38:24 40:14
53:11 forth 11:24 45:11,22 46:4 go 6:6,11,24 55:3
62:9 fortiori 51:9 46:16,24 47:7 12:10 14:2 govern 55:20
10:17,21 57:5 48:14 49:8,11 24:15,16,18 government
25:14 founders 39:21 49:16,19 50:1 25:21,25 27:21 22:9,17 25:15
42:22 four 27:13 49:14 50:20,21 51:6 29:11,21 31:2 25:19 29:11
44:17 frame 4:18 51:20,25 52:10 34:25 37:10 42:16 45:7,8
framework 52:21 53:4,18 39:23 60:2,2 45:10 57:12,16
27:18 41:9 53:22 54:7 goes 10:23 14:1 59:23
47:3
44:1 56:1,9 57:18 33:17 governments
51:11 58:15 58:1,9,17,22 going 7:25 9:10 21:7,9,16
55:25
friend 31:12 60:12 61:20,21 21:22 22:1,23 50:2 62:24
56:2,5 49:20 54:16 generally 18:24 38:15 44:5,25 12:24
Friendly 41:3 35:15 50:25 52:15 great 31:12
41:25 52:13 generic 11:8 Goldstein 2:1 greater 48:25
14:17 further 52:22 26:21 27:4 14:4,7,19 23:12
25:12 59:7 29:10 52:4,11 15:13 16:16,18 happy 8:3
31:5 52:23 17:4,9,19,22 hard 54:8
35:3 G give 12:18 14:2 17:25 18:19 hear 4:3 6:5 7:9
54:24 G 4:1 15:14 16:13 19:11,19 20:6 heard 51:14
29:25 30:3,16 44:13 46:11,11 26:1,6,10,16 help 9:7 14:21
imposed 56:22 interpretation 56:24 20:19,22 21:4
included 62:23 55:11 58:7 24:10,20 25:16
22:7 51:25 55:8 judiciary 45:16 26:7,10,11,12
incumbents 33:11 54:17 9:13,15,17 29:9,10,24
60:16 10:17,21 11:1 30:3,14,22
inference 53:6,7 intrastate 36:25 17:12 19:9,18 34:24 35:9,13
62:10 innumerable involved 11:17 31:22,23,25 41:17,19 42:9
instance 54:24 9:15 34:23 4:23 8:22 9:3,5 45:13,14 46:3
60:9 instances 50:6 issue 13:25 19:1 13:18 16:14 47:2,10,13,24
instrumentality 25:22 32:13,17 48:18 50:12 49:7,9,12,13
22:4 intend 9:19 36:3,8,10 37:7 55:15,21 56:7 51:4,8,21,23
34:4,5 13:20 22:3 41:23,23 42:4 Justice 2:4 4:3 52:4,10,16,23
40:21 intended 6:4 43:25 45:3 4:10 5:7,16,24 53:1,5,16,20
48:15 25:10 44:11,13 47:3,5,6 50:22 6:2,10,13,23 55:12 56:2,4
54:2,10 50:21 51:16 62:20 7:2,4,15,23,24 57:8,20,22
intent 15:8 63:2 8:6,10,15,21 58:5,10,17,23
10:22 interest 57:7 10:3,13,16 61:6,13,25
17:23 28:12 30:12,21 listen 19:15 making 8:1 49:6 moves 36:1
60:6 61:6 35:16 39:21 20:15 59:22
40:21 41:10 listening 10:19 N
18:1 51:13 54:11 little 11:23 maps 38:6 narrow 4:16
20:3,7 55:4 58:15 36:17 39:14 margin 55:22 11:10
25:24 60:25 62:6,18 local 21:7,9,15 matter 1:22 15:9 national 24:24
lawmaking 15:2 22:5,9,17 15:9,10 18:17 39:2 57:7
27:2,8 15:3,3 16:9 25:13 27:17,17 21:1 22:10 neat 33:9
29:9 lawyer's 62:15 27:17 42:16 32:21 44:24 necessarily
44:15,21 62:20 46:1 57:1,11 52:12 55:9 19:16 38:16
59:13 law-making 57:16 58:11,11 59:6 49:2 50:24
layer 42:1,6 locality 25:5,6 Mayo 30:19 34:13
19:10 legal 8:4 loggerheads 30:17 41:1 nightmare
38:22 letters 18:8 61:12 60:22,23 38:16
54:18 letting 31:19 long 25:3 27:14 mean 6:8,10 nine 49:14
let's 30:23 34:25 33:2 7:16 8:11,13 NLRB 34:11,14
16:23 23:2 53:10 39:19,20 40:24 non-jurisdicti...
23:24 lies 4:19 looked 15:22 45:5 55:12 19:13
25:16,17 limit 10:11 11:6 16:4,8 28:16 meaning 31:23 normal 35:21
26:13 13:11 22:8 29:2 48:19 37:6 52:1 43:13,14,18,19
29:11 31:17,20 46:5 52:5 59:5,21 means 4:13 8:11 53:12 56:16
38:18 57:11 looking 9:17 11:20 13:8 novo 10:2 15:22
45:5 limitation 39:6 23:25 26:13 20:15 52:20 21:20 28:11
60:10 57:21 48:12 50:19 55:14 56:19 35:5,11,14,19
52:6,6 39:8 11:16 36:15 54:9,23,25
56:21,23 57:2 Louis 39:20 40:6 55:6,7,9 59:21
40:10 62:11,22 62:25
12:9 12:13 15:21 millions 38:13 numbers 34:8
52:1 limits 8:19 9:1 18:20 36:16,21
36:22 61:13 Minus 6:7
8:8 18:3 minutes 59:10 obscure 26:15
50:9 27:25 28:9,10 moment 40:25
41:21 57:23 obviously 8:3
42:21 outside 12:20 persist 31:11 post 6:17 53:8 55:10
overclaiming person 22:15 posts 6:18 60:2
page 3:2 23:12 43:11 18:11,12 19:2 promulgated
9:12 pages 21:22 23:12 45:17 47:19 proper 5:15
18:19 27:13 48:12 Petitioner 1:14 61:23 62:5 52:19
23:25 49:14 30:6 63:9 proponent 40:8
32:24 Pandora's 33:8 Petitioners 1:4 powerful 19:21 proposal 10:11
48:5 54:14 2:2 3:4,10 4:9 powers 45:6 proposing 40:18
53:20 paragraph 22:7 48:9 59:12 47:5 proposition
49:22 53:24 phrase 7:17,19 practical 23:2 13:19
35:19 part 19:24 29:12 49:1,22 52:7 precedents 45:21
50:19 39:3 49:9 phrased 13:10 14:11 protection 16:3
55:8 56:6 50:24 phrases 26:18 precise 52:2 37:19 44:21
particular 10:22 picked 17:10 53:13 prove 17:2,8,8
19:24 34:6 42:8,14 plainly 12:12 43:16 53:24 57:10,12
38:16 44:22 47:16 play 42:17 preemptive 57:6 provider 29:16
50:22 54:10 please 4:11 30:4 premise 20:5 provision 5:14
49:24 56:13 61:22 plus 11:14 present 50:10 9:25 10:22
particularly point 6:10,24 presented 5:8 11:11 12:8,18
19:22 31:13 22:23 24:11,11 18:4 27:21 14:14 15:7,7
45:3 parties 4:15 24:14 26:12,15 34:25 35:8,13 15:22,22 16:9
24:12 39:8 30:5 32:1,5,9 preservation 18:15 21:8,15
30:1 passage 27:11 43:17 45:12 preserves 21:7 24:16 26:4
61:8 period 22:24 22:2 39:4,25 principled 54:16 37:7 38:1,2
48:22 57:17 58:18 33:1,22,23 54:4 54:3,10 55:17
58:12 63:10 35:2,6,7 37:16 problems 11:24 60:15 61:4,22
36:5 59:2 possession 24:8 process 48:23 provisions 5:13
12:12 42:23 48:18 53:1 54:2 29:6 45:1 51:8,19
37:18,20 54:17,18,19 55:14,16,24 resolved 34:20 52:20 53:4,18
48:15 question-begg... 57:17 58:18 50:8 57:23,25
61:18 59:3 63:10 resolving 4:16 rights 50:3
18:20 23:23 reasons 37:14 14:10 16:10 12:15 13:3,7
47:17 quite 24:19 rebuttable 17:17 19:23 13:13 29:24
27:12 28:21 58:19 22:9 28:20 30:22 31:9
R 4:1 59:5 respected 46:2 49:7,9,13,17
7:13 radio 24:17 referred 36:19 respectfully 49:25 53:16,20
8:2 raised 29:10 regarded 29:19 14:10 19:16 55:12 56:4
9:5,6,8 raises 60:13 regret 59:16 34:2 57:22 58:5
10:2,6,7,8 rates 42:24 49:1 regulations Respondent 59:9 63:12
11:3 read 22:22 23:5 28:19 54:19 role 42:17
12:1 23:23 26:23 rehearsed 9:22 Respondents routinely 36:12
13:18 27:5,15,23 rejected 17:11 2:5 3:7 30:2 rule 5:9 13:25
31:14,16 48:10 34:18 63:6 response 19:7 14:1 30:12
16:15,24 50:2,6 57:9 rejecting 47:25 45:12 38:2,24 41:12
18:6,10 62:21 related 24:17 responsibility 42:4 43:15,20
20:7 reading 11:18 relating 27:11 44:16 47:18 44:3,5 45:2,4
21:19 29:6 relation 6:16 responsible 50:11 52:12
22:1 real 4:18 8:12 relations 47:6 45:18 56:20 58:12
26:8 26:12 relationship restrict 37:22 rules 5:12 11:23
really 7:16 19:7 29:3 restricted 56:18 15:10 18:11
30:12 33:8 47:8 51:2 rely 13:18 result 41:5 30:11,21 39:9
33:11,16 55:2 56:13 remainder Revenue 40:16 42:3 43:19
34:25 reason 6:3 13:4 29:23 review 24:4 30:8 47:16,19 50:15
13:4 17:11 remaining 59:10 35:5,11,14,19 rule-making
42:7 18:22 29:14 remedies 37:22 35:21 42:7 5:11,15 11:14
44:24 33:6,21,22 remedy 38:3 47:1,20 52:13 13:20,25 15:25
40:14 54:13 removed 21:14 54:9,24,25 16:2 21:14
48:3 reasonable 7:18 repeated 34:8 55:6,7,9 58:7 23:14,15,21,21
57:23 7:19,22 11:18 replace 41:12 59:6 62:25 24:3,8,14
59:21 21:11 22:20,24 report 23:11 right 5:22,24 8:2 34:12 39:13
23:8,16 24:15 26:24 27:13 8:12 13:3 54:7 61:10
61:7,7 24:21,24 25:4 request 57:16 14:20 15:15 63:8
62:4,6,9 26:18 27:6,12 required 55:6,8 16:4 19:15 rule-makings
37:25 39:10 requiring 34:16 20:16 21:17 19:1
42:25,25 46:21 reserve 29:23 26:11 30:22 rulings 16:10
36:13 52:17,19 53:1 resolve 20:13 35:9 38:7 42:9 run 37:2
sections 12:6 44:6 45:24 start 30:5 24:13 29:7
36:19 51:21 52:3 started 14:11 34:12 35:22
Senate 23:17 Skidmore 19:11 22:17 25:12 62:5
54:6 23:4,10 25:10 Smiley 57:7 43:5 44:12 20:12 26:8
32:2 61:15 15:17 62:12 48:20 50:3,13 36:1 37:4,9,11
45:19 sentence 14:12 Solid 43:23 52:7,7,8 55:19 43:13 44:2,19
55:13 26:23 50:1 somewhat 11:9 55:25 56:14,23 54:4 58:24
23:19 separation 45:6 sorry 17:24 38:9 statement 24:7 steps 35:7
25:19 47:5 41:20 43:18 43:15,20 44:5 straightforward
31:3,17 Service 12:5 47:10 44:8 56:20 37:4
38:19 15:21 16:7 sort 15:7 17:20 States 1:1,23 straightjacket
45:2 18:21 36:16,21 Sotomayor 8:19 9:2 13:11 38:25 39:22,24
49:4 61:13 27:20,23 28:2 39:5 44:25 struck 58:23
57:15 set 18:14 23:15 28:5,15,19 45:8 46:19 stuff 39:5
42:13 34:24 35:9,13 47:22 subdivisions
9:7 short 10:20 59:1 statute 6:12,13 subject 11:13
show 15:15 sounds 11:18 6:14 8:17,25 15:9,9,10,24
13:23 40:25 spare 40:25 9:18 11:13 18:17 22:10
16:12 side 31:13 40:18 speaks 13:10 12:2,8 14:18 35:4,10 57:2
41:25 42:6,13 special 15:8 14:25 15:1 submit 32:8
19:6 52:14 53:25 specific 11:19 16:3,8 17:14 34:2,23 55:1
20:14 56:11 58:13 16:8 17:10 20:25 21:25 submitted 63:13
23:24 significant 30:14 31:5 22:4,12,14 63:15
40:9 42:22 39:3,7 43:23 24:5 25:11 subparagraph
44:23 silliness 59:17 45:12 48:18 26:4,13 29:3 26:20
47:2 60:7 specifically 16:4 30:24 31:18 subsection 15:7
57:8,20 similar 27:11 37:6 32:7,9 33:3 15:8 18:15,16
49:5 specifics 43:10 34:20 37:23 22:6,11,13
simply 13:7 squarely 12:4 50:8 51:17 subsequently
31:25 61:14 stable 41:9 60:25 61:9,9 subsidiary
13:20 siting 25:7,13,13 58:3,6 statutes 11:12 33:12 48:7
31:3 48:1 62:18 standards 23:15 24:3 substantial
situation 33:8 25:6 26:22 statutory 9:25 26:19,24
36:4 56:5,5 39:23 40:1,12 tools 35:21 12:16
38:2 talks 55:18 40:13,14,17,17 43:13,14 understands
53:12 task 9:17 48:25 40:24 41:8,24 totally 38:6 20:1
58:3 tax 38:15 41:24 46:17,17 tradition 44:16 understood
TECHNOLO... 48:15,25 49:6 tried 33:14 undertook 9:17
television 6:17 53:9,21,22,25 try 43:22 uniformly 36:12
49:20 28:8,9 35:9 56:9,10 58:1 turn 7:24 21:19 unravel 58:14
44:24 52:4 58:10,12,22 23:9 38:15 unravelled 55:2
52:15 tenor 50:18 thinking 31:11 turning 40:15 unreasonable
26:4 tests 28:3 thought 51:16 37:11 39:25 58:21
53:6 Texas 1:3 4:5 52:16 49:13 59:1 urge 58:16
29:24 59:8,9 threaten 58:14 U usual 46:21
41:14 theories 4:16 17:7,10,11,17 unambiguous 55:19
thing 4:17 15:5 18:10,13 28:13 unanimous utility 47:17
62:4,20 uncertain 53:2
10:3,4 13:2 21:11 22:21,24 uncontested vague 52:19
15:19 25:2,4 27:16 27:6,12 29:23 understand 14:8 vastly 45:20
43:9 30:6,16 31:23 37:25 52:1,9 21:13 26:5 vehicle 37:20
33:24 33:13 36:8,9 60:22 63:10 44:23 48:8 Verrilli 2:3 3:6
52:17 36:10,11,13,17 today 4:22 12:17 51:21 29:25 30:1,3
31:7 Washington 38:18 43:1 3
1:19 2:1,4 wrong 29:2,2 3 48:5
36:16 wasn't 18:7 51:19 30 3:7 25:17
40:7 45:14 50:25 45:2,3 58:18
41:7,16 63:2 X
50:11
42:10,19 Waste 43:23 x 1:2,8,10,18 332 5:13
44:9 way 5:8 7:19 332(c)(7) 4:21
45:11 12:23 14:24 Y
46:4,16 17:7 18:8 13:21 29:3
47:7,12 19:14 31:16 Z 62:13
48:8 33:15,16 36:8 332(c)(7)(B)
36:9 38:7 44:8 38:1 45:24
26:8
51:6,20 50:6 56:16 384 48:12
52:10,21 57:5 62:1
Wednesday 397 49:24
57:8,18 1:20 1
went 16:21 29:1 1 21:22 4
29:2 10 49:14 4 3:4 59:10
18:9 49:21 11-1545 1:4 4:4
1:13
43:2,22 51:14 56:13 123 31:3,10 24:14
52:10 59:22 60:4,18 13.6 6:7 59 3:10
58:11 we've 15:10 48:5 150 25:2
1:20 646 37:8
38:4 wireless 25:3,8 17 59:20
wooden 17:21 53:17,18,21,23
21:22 22:15,20 7(a) 13:10 21:6
51:17,19 52:19 48:1,12 49:9
62:16 31:13,17
7(b)(2) 31:14
8:4 works 28:14 209 23:12 27:8
19:4 world 25:10 210 27:9
22:1 worries 38:10 251 12:7 15:23
wouldn't 13:15 36:19
38:22 37:12 36:20
