IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner : No. 11-192
v. :
JAMES X. BORMES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 2, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Petitioner.
JOHN G. JACOBS, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN G. JACOBS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 31
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will now hear
argument in Case 11-192, United States v. Bormes.
Mr. Srinivasan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
This Court's decisions have long established
that Congress will be deemed to have waived the
Government's sovereign immunity only if it unequivocally
expresses its intent to do so.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under your view, is
there any situation today where the Tucker Act would be
applied to a statute? Because if we start with the
statute, which always seems to be where you're pointing
us to, and we're only looking for a clear waiver of
sovereign immunity, then there'll never be another
Tucker Act action in the future.
MR. SRINIVASAN: There are such statutes,
Justice Sotomayor. Of course --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What would they look
like to be able to get around our clear statement rule?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, they would have two
features consistent with this Court's decisions that
have found the Tucker Act to be applicable. One would
be that the statute does not contain its own remedial
mechanism, and the second would be that the substantive
obligations in the statute run against the United
States, and the United States alone.
And an example of that type of statute is
the one that this Court found to be supported by the
Tucker Act in White Mountain Apache Tribe or in Mitchell
II. Those are the kinds of statutes as to which I think
the Tucker Act was meant to apply.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So basically -- I'm not
sure why we're even addressing the issue of Tucker Act
jurisdiction. We should have really just been briefing
the issue of whether the statute at issue here waives
sovereign immunity --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, of course --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- because that becomes,
to you, the operative question.
MR. SRINIVASAN: It does when they're
dealing with the statute like this.
And, of course, the reason that we're
addressing Tucker Act immunity is because Tucker Act
immunity is the basis for jurisdiction in this case
according to the reasoning of the Federal circuit.
And the problem with the reasoning of the
Federal circuit is it allows the litigant to readily
circumvent the Court's strict test for sovereign
immunity waivers by the straightforward device of
adding the Tucker Act as a jurisdictional basis in the
complaint.
And it's not at all clear why a plaintiff
couldn't do that for any claim under any statute,
including a statute as to which this Court would have
already concluded that the unequivocal expression test,
the standard test applied for waivers of sovereign
immunity, was not satisfied.
Now, to give the Court a concrete example of
this, in Lane v. Pena, the court concluded that for
Rehabilitation Act claims under Section 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act, there was no unequivocal expression
of an intent to waive sovereign immunity by Congress for
purposes of damages claims; and, therefore, a
damages claim can't be brought against the United States
under Section 504.
But under the Federal circuit's approach,
there's no apparent reason why a plaintiff couldn't
bring a damages claim against the United States for a
violation of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act by
adding the Tucker Act to the jurisdictional bases in the
complaint. Because if the plaintiff were able to do
that, notwithstanding this Court's decision in
Lane V. Pena, the result would be that the plaintiff
could say, the Federal circuit, you should look at the
statute and ask the question whether it can be fairly
interpreted to mandate the payment of money by the
Government.
There's no unequivocal expression of an
intent to waive sovereign immunity, but that doesn't
detract from the ability of the Federal circuit to
conclude that the statute, nonetheless, can be fairly
interpreted to mandate the payment of money.
Now, of course, if that issue were to arise,
we would make the argument that the statute can't be so
read. But the possibility that a plaintiff could make
that argument, notwithstanding this Court's decision in
Lane V. Pena, we think reinforces the need to
conclude -- to conclude that the Tucker Act can't be
applied in the way that the Federal circuit sought to
apply it here.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I ask you --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Srinivasan --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry, I was going to
ask -- following up on my question --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- many courts have held
that the FLSA has an express waiver of sovereign
immunity. And many of them have recognized, if not all,
a Tucker Act remedy.
Under your new approach, that holding is
incorrect, I presume --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- because the FLSA has
its own remedial scheme?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I think one -- one way to
look at the FLSA, if we're looking at it in the first
instance, would be to conclude that the FLSA itself has
a waiver of sovereign immunity. And so you wouldn't
look to the Tucker Act as the basis for the waiver of
sovereign immunity, and you would look at FSLA in the
way that we think you should look at FCRA -- excuse me,
the Fair Credit Reporting Act, or FCRA.
Now, Your Honor is correct that there is a
body of court of claims jurisprudence that doesn't
necessarily view the statute in that way. But if you
apply the framework that we think is the correct one to
apply, as we set forth in our brief, you might reach the
same conclusion under the Fair Labor Standards Act,
although under a slightly different route.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But then the Federal
circuit has no jurisdiction over those claims, according
to you, because the waiver is in the FLSA, it has its
own judicial remedy. They're not authorized, then, to
go to --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, it would depend.
There is a little bit of an anomaly in the FLSA because
the FLSA doesn't necessarily point to any particular
court as the basis of jurisdiction.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It has the same language
as here, in -- you can bring your suit in any Federal or
state court of competent jurisdiction.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Right. It says: "In any
Federal or state court of competent jurisdiction," but
this statute specifically allows for claims to be
brought in district courts and a court of competent
jurisdiction.
So one way --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't know -- I don't
see the difference between --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think one way to
potentially see the difference -- and I'm not going to
quibble with -- with what Your Honor's saying, but one
way to potentially see a difference is because the FLSA
only refers to courts of competent jurisdiction -- it
doesn't have a free-standing provision that reversed the
district courts -- it's possible to read that statute as
essentially incorporating the Tucker Act as setting
forth what the court of competent jurisdiction would be.
Here, 1681(p), which is set forth at 13(a)
and 14(a) of the appendix to the Government's brief,
speaks specifically about actions being brought under
FCRA in any appropriate United States District Court,
and then only, it goes on to talk about, or in any other
court of competent jurisdiction.
So that's a potential basis for drawing a
distinction between the two.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Srinivasan, what you say
has a good deal to recommend it, and it's basically, you
know, why should we read the Tucker Act to reverse
everything that we know about sovereign immunity, but
it's really hard to get that from the text of this --
the Tucker Act.
In fact -- I mean, I guess my question is:
Do you have any textual argument for the result that you
are asking us to reach?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure. I do, Your Honor.
The text of the Tucker Act, it's true, if you read the
text to apply to its full potential reach, then the
argument would be more difficult; but, the text of the
Tucker Act has never been read that way, including by
this Court itself, starting with Nichols v. United
States --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that's not really a
textual argument. That's an argument about how we've
sensibly limited the reach of the Tucker Act. But the
Tucker Act does seem to include what your friend there
says it includes --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I guess --
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- against any statute. Not
any statute except the ones with remedial provisions,
but just any statute.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure. I guess you -- you
-- if you read the Tucker Act to its full textual reach,
I think we would have a more difficult case. But our
argument is that when the statute refers to claims
founded on any act of Congress, it was never intended to
apply literally to any conceivable act of Congress.
And, in fact, this Court's own test for money
mandating -- the money mandating test that applies to
the Tucker Act embodies that understanding because --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume you're appealing
to the textual principle that the specific governs the
general. Isn't that what's going on here?
MR. SRINIVASAN: We're appealing --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That the Tucker Act is a
more general provision, and you are saying it's -- it's
overcome by a more specific provision that provides for
compensation, but excludes the Federal Government.
MR. SRINIVASAN: We're certainly relying on
that, Justice Scalia, when you're asking whether the
Tucker Act can be used as the basis for waiving
sovereign immunity for claims under the Fair Credit
Reporting Act. So when you bring the Fair Credit
Reporting Act into play, yes, we're absolutely relying
on the specific versus the general proposition, as this
Court has relied on in any number of cases.
I guess I understood Justice Kagan's
question to be talking about the Tucker Act and the
Tucker Act alone, without bringing into play any other
statute. Now, I take Your Honor's point that it's hard
to conceive of the Tucker Act in that kind of isolated
fashion, because usually you'll be asking a question
whether a claim can be brought against the United States
under some other statutory regime.
And so if that statutory regime includes its
own remedial mechanism, as FCRA does, it's hard to avoid
resort to the specific control as a general proposition.
But the other point about construing the
text of the Tucker Act alone is that the Tucker Act is a
waiver of sovereign immunity. And so the canon that we
construe waivers of sovereign immunity strictly comes
into play when we construe the terms of the Tucker Act
itself. And I think it stands to reason that when you
apply that canon, you wouldn't read the Tucker Act to
encompass fully any act of Congress, because the
implications for waivers of sovereign immunity would be
quite substantial.
And so the Court has never construed the
Tucker Act that way, and it shouldn't countenance that
kind of construction now, which is effectively what the
Federal Circuit's interpretation allows, because, rather
than applying the strict standard under which Congress
would have to be seen to have unequivocally expressed an
intent to waive the Government's sovereign immunity in
the terms of FCRA, it allows a plaintiff to avoid that
by simply resorting to the Tucker Act in the
jurisdictional basis of a complaint, and getting the
real act by the Federal Circuit's own description
standard that applies to the Tucker Act.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The United States -- the
United States is governed by the substance of the Credit
Reporting Act. The Act applies to the Government, but
your point is there's no sanction for
noncompliance, even though the United States, a
Government system, is supposed to conform to the
standards in the Act.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I guess a few
responses, Justice Ginsburg. First, on the question of
whether the United States is subject to the substantive
obligations in FCRA, I don't know that's there's a one
size fits all answer. I think you'd have to go
provision by provision and make an assessment.
And the reason I would say that is that,
with respect to certain provisions at least, there are
other statutes that, depending on the provision, have a
specific obligation against the Government. And I'm
thinking in particular of the Debt Collection
Improvements Act, the Privacy Act in certain contexts.
And so you have -- you have to ask the question whether,
with respect to the particular FCRA provision that's
alleged to run against the United States, would the
better basis for finding the United States' obligations
be some other statute that speaks more specifically to
the question.
So I'm resisting the notion that the -- the
FCRA's references to "person" in all of its substantive
obligations would necessarily encompass the Government.
Now, there's at least one provision as to which we don't
deny that the Government is covered, and that's
1681(b)(b)(b), and that provision is set forth at pages --
at page 7a of the appendix to the Government's brief.
And with respect to the particular provision
at issue in this case, the truncation provision, I guess
we don't have to confront the question of whether the
Government is bound by that provision. It might well
be, but we don't have to confront that question, because
the Government acts as if it's in compliance with that
provision because it has to.
There's a series of network agreements that
the Government has entered into with credit card
companies that allow the Government to participate in
the credit card system. As a condition --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. 1681b(b)(b),
you said? Where is that case?
MR. SRINIVASAN: 1681(b)(b). If you look
at --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You said 7a.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I'm sorry. It starts
at 4a. And the -- 4a, permissible purposes of
Government reports; the conditions for furnishing. And
then if you go to 7a -- that's also part of (b)(b) --
b(b)4 has an exception for national security
investigations. And it talks at (b)(b)(4)(A) about "in
the case of an agency or department of the United States
Government which seeks to obtain and use." And because
there's a reference to the United States Government in
that provision --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- it stands to reason that
the term "person" in (b)(b) -- which starts at 4a;
excuse me -- encompasses the United States Government.
I guess the short answer, Justice Ginsburg,
is I don't think that there is a one size fits all
answer. But the other part of your question is, are we
taking the position that even if substantive obligations
run against the United States, there still wouldn't be a
remedy, at least a remedy in damages against the United
States? And the answer to that is yes.
But that's not at all atypical under this
Court's sovereign immunity jurisprudence, and it's not
at all atypical for Congress to have fashioned a scheme
that runs in that way. And the Privacy Act at least is
one example, where in the Privacy Act, which applies to
the Government and the Government alone, there are
certain obligations that the Government has to comply
with in that statute.
But Congress is very careful to cabin the
circumstances in which the Government would be subject
to liability and money damages.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Still in all, your argument
is -- is not just a straightforward specific governs the
general argument. I mean, that would be the case if --
if the other statute which the plaintiff is trying to
run around through the Tucker Act specifically -- it
clearly prohibits suit against the Government. Then you
would say, you know, the specific governs the general
even though the govern -- the Tucker Act permits it; this
statute prohibits it.
But you're saying this other statute here
does not really prohibit it. You're just saying this
other statute does not permit it under our usual rules
about waiver of sovereign immunity being strictly
construed. So, you know, it's a -- it's a -- it's a
difference -- it's an odd sort of a specific governs the
general argument.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I think, with respect,
Justice Scalia, I think that's a distinction that
ultimately doesn't make a difference in the context of
this case. In the prior cases in which this Court has
applied the specific over the general canon in related
contexts, it's true that the statutes in some situations
contemplated liability against the United States, but it
had -- that statute would have certain limitations.
And I'm thinking, for example, of Hinck, of
Erika, of Brown v. General Services Administration,
cases like that, and Sheehan. And what the Court said
was, where a statute provides for liability against the
United States, but in certain situations, you don't look
to a different statute, the Tucker Act, to circumvent
those kinds of limitations.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but that's -- that's
because the negative implication of that statute is --
affirms that there is no liability of the United States.
Okay? But here, you don't have -- you don't have that
negative implication at all, do you?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I guess -- I don't
think we need to have that negative implication to that
full extent in order to invoke the specific versus the
general canon, because the question at the end of the
day is what did Congress intend? And where Congress
enacts a specific remedial scheme that sets out the
extent to which liability will be imposed under, in this
case, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, it stands to reason
that Congress would have expected courts to look to the
remedial scheme that it established to determine to
metes and bounds of liability, not to some other general
default provision.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Srinivasan --
MR. SRINIVASAN: And therefore in that
sense, the specific remedial scheme that's in the
statute should control over some other general scheme
that Congress might well not have had in mind at all
when it set forward the terms under which claims can be
brought under FCRA.
JUSTICE KAGAN: How specific does the other
statute have to be? Suppose there were another statute
that just said any party can bring suits to enforce any
rights against any persons under this statute.
Would you be making the same argument?
MR. SRINIVASAN: If -- if the statute were
that general?
JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes. If that's all the
statute says. It just says any party can bring suit to
enforce rights under this statute. So there's not a
lot of hoopla and a lot of detail about a remedial
scheme. Would you still say that -- this controls over
the Tucker Act?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I think I would, because I
think in that context, Congress would have made a
determination on the scope of liability for claims under
that statute. It would have given thought to that
issue, and it would have set forth in a very general
provision the metes and bounds of the liability. And
Congress I think in that context wouldn't have expected
anyone to look to the Tucker Act, because Congress gave
no indication that it was thinking about the Tucker Act.
Now, in Your Honor's hypothetical, if you
had a statute that spoke in those kinds of general
terms, of course, we'd have I think a very good argument
that there would have been no contemplation of a waiver
of sovereign immunity. So we would strongly resist the
notion that the United States might fall within the
compass of that general provision.
But on the question of whether you'd look to
that general provision as opposed to the Tucker Act, I
think you would look to that general provision, because
Congress in the context of enacting that statute told
everybody: We're defining the extent to which liability
can be asserted in court by reference to this general
provision; this is where you ought to look, not
somewhere else.
Now, one other --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't it really -- doesn't
the question come down to as you're putting it
whether -- whether the Tucker Act eliminates for all
other statutes the presumption against liability on the
part of the United States?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It does. I think it does.
And I think that's quite a breathtaking proposition, and
not one that Congress would have intended by virtue of
the Tucker Act --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then it's
really the specific governing the general, but the other
way around, right? The Tucker Act discusses
specifically the liability and the sovereign immunity of
the United States, and if the statute just generally
doesn't address it, then the Tucker Act is the specific
one and the other statute is the general one.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, it would be hard to
square that understanding with the way -- with the
series of this Court's cases that apply the specific
versus general canon, because I think the same argument
could have been made in Brown v. General Services
Administration, in Erika, in Hinck, that if you thought
that the subject --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You'd win under this
argument, too, right?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I'm sorry?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You win under this
argument, too. It just seems to me that it's not quite
right to say that FCRA -- FCRA does not specifically
address the liability of the United States.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The Tucker Act does.
So the Tucker Act is the one that's specific, and it
applies instead of the general language in the -- in
FCRA.
MR. SRINIVASAN: It -- well, you can look at
it that way, Mr. Chief Justice, but I guess my only
response --
JUSTICE SCALIA: In which case you would
lose, not win.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, that's the question
because it depends on --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes ­ you better resist it.
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- it depends on how you
construe the Tucker Act.
I mean, I think Your Honor is correctly
construing the Tucker Act's waiver of sovereign immunity
only to apply to a certain limited subset of acts of
Congress. And if you construed it in a sufficiently
limited way, I suppose we could live with that result.
But I think the better way to approach the
question is to look at the particular remedial scheme
that Congress enacted in the scope of the statute
itself. And for purposes of questions of sovereign
immunity, you'd look to that particular remedial scheme
and ask the age-old question, countenanced by this
Court's decisions, of whether there is an unequivocal --
unequivocal expression of an intent to waive sovereign
immunity in the scope of that statute itself.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So what is covered by the
Tucker Act? I mean, every -- every basis for suit
against the Government, every claim that the Government
owes you money rests upon some statutory text, doesn't
it?
MR. SRINIVASAN: There -- well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So what --
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- not claims in contract,
for example. Obviously, if there is an expressed
contract with the United States, I don't know that that
comes under a statute, necessarily, but --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Express contracts
with the United States. Anything else?
MR. SRINIVASAN: The just compensation
clause. That doesn't come under a statute, it comes
under the Constitution, but the Tucker Act can be used.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. But anything that
comes under a statute, you would look to the other
statute to see whether there is sovereign immunity under
that statute; and, if there is under that statute, then
the Tucker Act does not overcome it.
MR. SRINIVASAN: If that statute -- at least
if that statute has its own remedial scheme, then you'd
look to the remedial scheme in that statute.
But I think this is where I started off with
Justice Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's exactly what I
started with. That's what I started with: Is there
anything left to the Tucker Act?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Right. And I think there
is. I think the -- statutes like the one that this
Court had before it in White Mountain Apache Tribe are
ones.
Another example that I could give the Court
is there is a statute that dealt with payment of
compensation to prisoners of war. This was the statute
that was at issue in Bell v. The United States. I think
it's cited in footnote 42 of the Court's opinion in
Bowen v. Massachusetts.
But that statute specifically set forth that
compensation would be owed to prison -- prisoners of war
held in captivity. That statute did not have its own
remedial scheme. Its substantive obligation ran against
the United States, and the United States alone, by
nature.
And the Tucker Act, I think, in that context
would step in to supply a waiver of sovereign immunity
and jurisdiction in the Court of Federal Claims. And
the reason is that that statute has the two predicate
conditions that we think have to be met in order to even
raise the question whether the Tucker Act steps in.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So the new rule is if a
statute is written to impose obligations only on the
Government, then the Tucker Act is implicated
immediately. If the rule says the Government and any
party who contracts with it -- a Medicaid provider --
must do X, Y, and Z, and the Government and the Medicaid
provider have the burdens of accomplishing Y, unless
there is an express waiver of sovereign immunity, the
Tucker Act doesn't come into play.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I think that's --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's your position.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I think that's right, Your
Honor, but I'd qualify it in one respect, which is that
if -- if the statute contains its own remedial scheme,
that's an independent reason for not looking at the
Tucker Act.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you are not going
to suggest that if the scheme I just described says X,
Y, and Z, have to do all these things, and someone to
whom they owe that obligation can sue the Medicaid
provider, for example, for breach of that obligation,
presumably -- I'm putting in a lot of hypotheticals
given our case law -- but you're saying they can't sue
the Government under the Tucker Act --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- unless there is an
express waiver.
MR. SRINIVASAN: That's right. I think you
would look to the question of whether there's been a
sufficiently expressed waiver in the terms of the
statute itself, which is the traditional test that this
Court has applied.
JUSTICE KAGAN: How about if a statute has
no remedial provision at all; it just lists a set of
legal obligations, but it's a generally applicable
statute, it doesn't concern only the United States?
Would your argument still apply that the Tucker Act has
no force?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes, it would. I think
it's easier where you have a remedial scheme, obviously,
but I think it's also the case that where the
substantive obligation is a generally applicable one and
doesn't run against the United States alone, you'd
still, I think, want to --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So then your argument really
isn't about another statute having a remedial scheme.
In the briefs, you present it as another statute has a
remedial scheme, of course you should look to that more
particular remedial scheme. But you would take the
argument and say, even if the other statute doesn't have
a remedial scheme, we don't look to the Tucker Act; we
just think of the Tucker Act as having a limitation that
is not in the Tucker Act's test -- text in order to make
the Tucker Act consistent with everything we thought we
knew about principles of sovereign immunity?
MR. SRINIVASAN: That's true. I mean, but I
guess -- you don't have to reach the question of whether
the Tucker Act applies or the statute doesn't have its
own remedial scheme, obviously, in this case, because
FCRA does have its own remedial scheme. Our argument
would still apply.
And on the question of whether we're reading
the Tucker Act in one particular way to a subsets of
acts of Congress, I guess one point I'd make is that the
money mandating test that this Court has always applied
where the Tucker Act does apply already presupposes that
it doesn't apply to just any act of Congress, because
the act of Congress has to be a money-mandating one.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Say it again. I lost it.
Give me the last sentence again.
MR. SRINIVASAN: The last sentence, the last
thought at least -- maybe I should try to rephrase it,
but the last thought is that this Court's jurisprudence
already presupposes that the Tucker Act doesn't apply to
every act of Congress because the Court's jurisprudence
requires that the act of Congress be money-mandated.
So we're already in a zone in which the
Tucker Act's reference to acts of Congress doesn't
literally extend to every conceivable act of Congress.
It only extends to certain acts of Congress. And I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But is this a
money-mandated statute?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I -- if you didn't
have -- that's -- that's -- I guess -- if you didn't
have the remedial scheme.
We don't get to that question,
Justice Kennedy, because you only get to the
money-mandating question if there is not a remedial
scheme in the text of the statute itself and the
substantive obligation runs against the United States,
and the United States alone, which this one doesn't
because it's generally applicable.
And it's hard to conceive of that question
in the abstract because the question is whether the
statute is money-mandating in that it specifically
contemplates the payment of money by the United States;
and, precisely because the statute is generally
applicable, I think we would say that under this statute
it's not money-mandating, because it's not
money-mandating in that it doesn't contemplate payment
by the United States with relevant specificity because
the substantive obligation is generally applicable.
You only get to that question in a context
like White Mountain Apache Tribe or Mitchell II, where
the substantive obligation runs against the United
States, and the United States alone, and where there's
no remedial scheme embedded within the statute itself.
And then you ask the question whether is that kind of
substantive obligation that runs against the United
States, is that one that's naturally conceived as a
money-mandating.
And on that, I think you would look at a
couple of considerations consistent with this Court's
decisions. One is, is the obligation one that
necessarily deals with compensation? So, for example,
the statute I was referring to earlier that has to do
with compensation for -- for imprisoned prisoners of
war, that one naturally has to do with compensation, so
it might be money-mandating.
In White Mountain Apache Tribe and the other
trust cases that arise under the Indian Tucker Act, the
Court concluded that because background principles of
trust law would necessarily contemplate the payment of
money, that those statutes are money-mandating.
But the principal point here --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, this sort of
begs the question --
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- is you only get to that
question if you get past that hurdle.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the statute awards
damages for breach of the obligation, so it's
money-mandating. The issue is not whether it's
money-mandating; the question is who's it mandating.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, right, but --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there is not an
issue of whether it contemplates the payment of damages.
It expressly awards --
MR. SRINIVASAN: But I think the
money-mandating test, Justice Sotomayor, is whether it
contemplates the payment of damages by the
United States. And I guess that's why I'm having a hard
time addressing that question in the abstract, because
there's a predicate condition that hasn't been
satisfied.
That question only naturally arises where
the substantive obligation runs against the
United States and the United States alone. I think
precisely for the reason that Your Honor says, where the
substantive obligation is generally applicable in that
it applies to parties beyond the United States, it's
hard to ask the question whether the statute is
money-mandating in the relevant sense.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- it is -- there is
some difficulty with your argument, which is, going back
to my simplified hypothetical, Government and
Medicaid -- X providers have to do X, Y, and Z; if those
persons, being defined as Government and providers,
doesn't do what they have to do, they have to pay these
damages.
MR. SRINIVASAN: That -- I will grant --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, that's pretty
clear.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I will grant you,
Justice Sotomayor, that that hypo is more difficult than
this case because, although I would construe that to be
generally applicable, it does talk about the Government.
It specifically references the Government, and I think,
by Your Honor's hypothetical, the United States alone.
It's not an undifferentiated reference to persons, which
is what you have in FCRA.
I still think I would call that generally
applicable such that the Tucker Act wouldn't come into
play, but I don't deny that it would be a closer case
than what you have here.
If the Court has no further questions, I
would like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
Mr. Jacobs.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. JACOBS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. JACOBS: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
If I may, I should like to begin with
Justice Kennedy's question: Is this a money-mandating
statute?
Section 1681(a) defines "persons" and it
defines "persons" as, inter alia, "any Government or
Government body or agency." That, it would seem to me,
would be extraordinarily clear that the Government is
subject to this act and subject to money-mandating.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you wouldn't -- you
wouldn't need the Tucker Act now, would you?
MR. JACOBS: We --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just sue under the statute.
MR. JACOBS: We could. We believe we should
be able to recover simply under FCRA itself, yes, Your
Honor. But if there were any question as to whether the
Government is in fact covered, that would seem to me to
be answered by 1681b(b)(4).
JUSTICE SCALIA: So are you splitting your
claim? I mean, if you have both a cause of action under
FCRA and under the Tucker Act, the one has to go to the
Federal Circuit and the other elsewhere, or the Court of
Claims and then the Federal Circuit? What do you do?
MR. JACOBS: Your Honor, that was -- that
was the subject of some debate in the court below. We
took the appeal to the Federal Circuit because the claim
was based in whole or in part on the Tucker Act.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You also claimed under
FCRA, under the statute, right?
MR. JACOBS: Yes, we do, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: So why do you care? I
mean, you're in the Northern District of Illinois, you
bring a case under this Act. I guess you lost because
you wanted to appeal. And so -- so what is the big
deal? Appeal to the Seventh Circuit. Who cares. Why
do you care which circuit you go to? You said you
think -- well, why do you care?
MR. JACOBS: We don't particularly care,
Your Honor, but we believe that we are required by the
statute to appeal to the Federal Circuit if the claim is
based in whole or in part on the Tucker Act.
JUSTICE BREYER: I guess you and the
Government could have stipulated, we agree it goes to
the Seventh Circuit, and nobody would have opposed you
on that.
MR. JACOBS: I -- I -- I do not know, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: This case is about you want
to go to -- you want to go the Federal Circuit, they
want you to go to the Seventh Circuit?
MR. JACOBS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MR. JACOBS: And in 1681(b)(b)(4), the
statute said --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Before
you get --
MR. JACOBS: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if you -- their
argument is if you go to the Seventh Circuit, you don't
get any money, right? Because if you're getting money
from the United States, don't you have to go to the
Court of Claims in a case like this?
MR. JACOBS: I don't believe so, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No?
MR. JACOBS: I mean, 1681(p) says you can
sue either in district court or any other court of
competent jurisdiction. And in that regard, there's
been a lot of talk about the remedial scheme, and with
respect, Your Honor, I would submit that this is -- this
is not some reticulated, remedial scheme where you have
to file a claim and have a hearing and those kinds of
things where this Court has enforced that against
people.
Here, it's just a typical statute that says
you have to do A, B, and C, and if you don't you can be
sued in Federal court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know any other
statutes offhand -- I can't think of any, but maybe you
know some -- in which you can get money out of the
United States but don't have to go through the Court of
Claims and the Federal circuit? What other statutes are
there? And if there are none, the reason I ask the
question, it becomes less and less plausible that FCRA
was meant to allow suit against the Federal Government.
MR. JACOBS: The Privacy Act, Your Honor,
allows you to sue the Government in the district court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: For money damages.
MR. JACOBS: I believe so, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Not in tort. This seems an
awful lot like a tort, or tell me why it isn't. I mean,
what you are saying is there's a statute that says you
can't print more than the last five digits of a card or
the date, the expiration date, and they did both and you
want to say "or" means one or the other, it doesn't mean
and/or. That's what the case is about fundamentally,
right?
MR. JACOBS: The case is about printing the
expiration date, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, can you do and/or or
or. All right, got it. Now, if you print -- in your
view of it, they printed too much about a person's
credit card.
MR. JACOBS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: It sounds like an -- sort
of like an invasion of privacy, which is normally a
tort.
MR. JACOBS: It is like it, but I believe
this Court's jurisprudence has been for a long while
now, at least since Jacobs and I would submit even
earlier, Dooley onward, that it doesn't make any
difference whether -- if you're suing under a statute of
the United States or a contract or anything else, if
there's any element of tort in it, it doesn't matter.
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you mean? You can
sue for -- in other words, if the statute were to say,
if Smith, a Government employee, assaults a person, he
gets damages. Federal statute. Now he brings a
claim -- I don't know this law; I'm asking, I'm not
arguing. The plaintiff sues the United States for
assault. And you're saying that they can bring that in
the Court of Claims because it's a statute.
I don't know how this law works. I just
read that and I know the language doesn't totally tell
you. It's about liquid, illiquid. I didn't get that
part exactly. But as I've understood it, you can't
bring a tort suit in the Court of Claims. Now, that's
what I would like you to elaborate, because this sounds
rather like a tort suit, not sort of. That's why I am
asking.
MR. JACOBS: As no doubt intended, Your
Honor posed a very difficult question. I would submit
that if the statute says that you may not do A, B, and
C, that you could then sue in the Court of Claims.
JUSTICE BREYER: Even if it says you may not
assault someone.
MR. JACOBS: Yes. Even though
traditionally, you could think of that as a tort, I
believe that's this Court's jurisprudence.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the case I should look
at to show that is what? That's all right if you don't
have it.
MR. JACOBS: I think Daly -- Dooley, I
think, Your Honor, in 1901 said: "Regardless of whether
the exactions of taxes were tortious or not, we think
this case is within one of the first class of cases
specified in the Tucker Act of claims based upon a law
of Congress."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But your argument --
your answer is a little more complicated, because the
statute doesn't say tort claims, it says claims sounding
in tort, which means cases that aren't torts, but are
like torts. And it seems to me the case you -- you --
you have here is like tort, an invasion of privacy or
something like that.
MR. JACOBS: Your Honor, I believe, again,
that this Court has not interpreted the cases that way.
There is a debate as to whether a breach of fiduciary
duty is a tort or something else, and yet this Court in
White Mountain and other cases has -- has not found that
to be a bar.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, your friend
says that that's a fiduciary -- that's a trust breach,
which has been regarded as different than a tort.
MR. JACOBS: That's what the Government
says, but it is also a breach of fiduciary duty, and
that is often regarded as a tort, Your Honor. 16 --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you, Mr.
Jacobs --
MR. JACOBS: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- whether you think
Congress ever honed in on the issue whether the United
States, given the multitude of financial transactions in
which it engages, ever thought that sovereign immunity
would be waived? I mean, if you're right about this,
the consequences are enormous for the Federal fisc. And
we -- the -- the statute developed in a peculiar way.
First, there was the definition of person
when there was no civil liability, and then some years
later the prohibition of having both the credit card
number and the expiration date. In all of it, is there
any hint that Congress envisioned a waiver of sovereign
immunity in the Fair Credit Reporting Act?
MR. JACOBS: Your Honor, I would submit yes,
there is no explicit -- to my knowledge, there is no
explicit reference in the Congressional Record to
whether this was going to impact the Government or not.
However, what they talked about was the almost epidemic
proportion of identity theft going on, and in response
to that this bill was passed.
Knowing that the Government is one of the
largest issuers of credit card receipts, one would have
to wonder why they would want to exclude the Government
in terms of protecting the public. That would not make
sense. It doesn't make any difference where the
credit --
JUSTICE SCALIA: For the same reason that
you have the principle of sovereign immunity. They're
-- they are perfectly willing to subject corporations to
immense liability, but they are not willing to subject
the Federal Government to immense liability. That's
what the doctrine of sovereign immunity is all about,
isn't it?
MR. JACOBS: That's exactly correct,
Your Honor. But that's why I said in terms of
protecting the public, you wouldn't want to exclude such
a large -- such a large thing.
And when they wanted to protect the
Government, as they did in 1681(b)(b)(4), when they
wanted to exclude them, they explicitly did so --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Jacobs --
MR. JACOBS: -- the next year.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- the -- the import of the
Government's argument is that if your interpretation
governed, we would be facing, really, a quite massive
change in the law of sovereign immunity as we've known
it until this time.
So I will give you an -- Congress decides to
pass a statute, and the statute has a cause of action in
it. And the drafters say to each other, do we have to
say that the Government retains sovereign immunity? And
everybody says, no, the rules are that if we say nothing
at all, the Government does retain sovereign immunity.
Now, under your world, the next time
Congress passes such a statute and that question comes
up, you would say, oh, we have to say that the
Government waives -- retains its sovereign immunity,
because if we don't say that, somebody's going to bring
an action under the Tucker Act.
So for every statute, both the ones that
have been written under the old rules and the new ones
to come, we have completely flipped the presumption.
Now, Congress is going to have to say when it wants to
retain sovereign immunity, and if it doesn't -- if it
doesn't, the Tucker Act applies, and you get to be in
court.
MR. JACOBS: With respect, Justice Kagan, I
don't think that's true at all. They went out of their
way to define person to include the Government. And
that's significant in this respect, Your Honor. We cite
the Moore case, Moore v. The Department of Agriculture,
an almost identically worded statute, where it said, a
Government --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't think that quite
answers the question. That's a -- that's a question
about what FCRA means and whether under any standard,
whether the fairly arguable standard or the express
standard, you should win. And that's a different
question.
The question is what standard are we going
to hold you to. Are we going to say, all you need to
show is that it's fairly arguable, or are we going to
say, no, unless there's an express statement that the
Government has waived its sovereign immunity, the
Government retains it?
And as to that, you're asking us to flip the
presumption from now on.
MR. JACOBS: I don't believe so, Your Honor.
I think they went out of their way to say this applies.
It's not some general statute that says if a credit card
is printed improperly.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When the definition of
persons was put into the statute, there was no civil
liability; isn't that right? So they didn't -- they
could not have been thinking about civil liability.
MR. JACOBS: Well, when they amended FCRA in
1996 to add the -- to change the word from credit
reporting agency to person, I would submit that had to
be a conscious step.
And proof of that is found, I think, in two
subsequent amendments. One, the next year,
1681(b)(b)(4), saying, but this does not apply to the
Government if there is a national security issue. And
then the Government pointed to 1681(u)(i), that talked
about if the FBI improperly disclosed information, what
liability it would have.
Now, in the appendix to the Government's
brief, it stops there. But in the Government's petition
for cert at page 78a, it also has 1681(u)(l) which says
any other provision of this section notwithstanding,
people are limited to this remedy against the
Government. Why would Congress say that if there were
not other liability for Congress -- for the
United States?
So, I believe the -- Congress was about as
clear as it could be that it knew this applied to the
United States, and when it wanted to carve something
out, it did so, twice.
Now --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I really have -- I
haven't followed this argument. You say (l) --
MR. JACOBS: (l).
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- shows that they had
liability by the Government in mind?
MR. JACOBS: Yes, Your Honor. I believe
that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, why anybody --
notwithstanding any other provision, the remedies and
sanctions set forth in this section shall be the only
judicial remedies and sanctions for violation of this
section.
MR. JACOBS: I believe, Your Honor, that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why does that bear
upon whether the United States is liable or not?
MR. JACOBS: This (u) only applies to
United States, the FBI. 1681(u) is explicitly passed
with regard to the FBI getting information and
improperly disclosing it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I see.
MR. JACOBS: And this would say,
notwithstanding any other provisions, and it wouldn't do
that if there weren't other provisions applicable.
And that, Your Honor, takes me back to the
Moore case, which we discussed many times in our brief,
a similarly, almost identical statute, the Equal Credit
Opportunity Act.
The Truth in Lending Act, the equal
opportunity -- the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and FCRA
were all part of the Consumer Credit Protection Act,
different parts of it. And the Equal Credit Opportunity
Act had the same, almost the same definition with one
word different of importance.
And then the -- the Fifth Circuit said,
there is no exception in here, once it says that, for
any person -- it doesn't have an exception for the
United States, unlike the Truth in Lending Act which had
a specific provision exempting the United States.
This is identical except for one word
different. This says any, the most emphatic word it
could use. The other two statutes say, a Government or
Government entity. This statute says, any Government or
Government entity.
And the United States makes no response to
that interpretation that is throughout our judicial
system. And, indeed, it would be difficult to because
throughout the United States now, the -- the United
States no longer even attempts to argue that ECOA does
not provide for waiver of sovereign immunity.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if you are right
about that, I guess we could write a very narrow opinion
saying the Tucker Act applies where there is a cause of
action under the original statute anyway, in which case
we would not have made much new law, would we?
MR. JACOBS: Well, I'm hoping we won't make
much new law, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. JACOBS: -- because I believe this is
consistent with this Court's longstanding jurisprudence.
And, indeed, the -- the cases where the
Court says, no, we're not going to let you bring this
under the Tucker Act, is where the party is trying to
escape, to get around a limitation in the substantive
act, where they're trying to avoid a statute of
limitations, avoid the requirement to file a -- a claim,
as in Elkhorn Mining, as -- to get around -- get away
from a court as in Hinck, where it says the tax court
will have jurisdiction of this. And then they are
trying to get around --
That's not going on here. We're -- the
Plaintiff in this case is not trying to evade any
Congressional intent or statutory provision of FCRA.
And the Government points to nothing -- no violence that
would be done to the FCRA by allowing this.
The -- the reason that this statute was
passed was to protect consumers. The Congress was clear
that if any Government violates the statute, it has this
liability. I do not know how you could have a clearer
money-mandating statute.
And, Justice Scalia, you asked, well, would
we just win under the -- under the statute? My answer
to that would be unequivocally yes, we should. It's an
unequivocal waiver.
And that's the irony here. I think you have
a -- a more unequivocal waiver in this statute than you
do almost any other where the Court has found that yeah,
that's a fair inference of a money-mandating situation.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I mean, the -- a lot
of these provisions are technical, like the one I think
is fairly technical, the one you are talking about, the
Government -- it provides for treble damages -- treble
damages, does it?
MR. JACOBS: Yeah.
JUSTICE BREYER: Minimum damage, punitive
damages, a fairly lengthy statute of limitations
compared to the court of claims.
MR. JACOBS: 2 years.
JUSTICE BREYER: 2 years. And they have 6
in the other?
MR. JACOBS: 2 years or 5 years -- 2 years
from discovery, 5 years --
JUSTICE BREYER: My -- my impression was
there are several differences. And normally, these
things you, at least arguably, are not appropriate
against the Government, because the Government when it
knows the law will follow it, we hope. And, therefore,
you don't need brow-beating mechanisms to make sure they
follow it once it's clarified. So, therefore, it -- I
mean, I can imagine arguments.
At the same time, there are differences
between the relief scheme in this statute and the normal
one you have in the Court of Claims. And they're
arguing that that means that they didn't want this
Tucker Act and these other things to apply.
I just want to know what your reply is to
that. They are different.
MR. JACOBS: They -- they are different,
Your Honor, but, with respect, I see nothing about
saying, this is what you must do, and if you don't do,
this is what you have to pay -- I see nothing unusual
about saying that can be in the Court of Claims; that
that's a Tucker Act claim. That doesn't seem -- that's
not some reticulated statute unlike the Civil Service
Review Act or something like that, where you have to do
all these steps, have this hearing first, have that
hearing --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So are you happy with
the circuit's suggestion that the specific does govern
the general insofar as it will adopt whatever FCRA's
limitations are?
MR. JACOBS: Yes. And that's --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And into its own
processes?
MR. JACOBS: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Your position is that's
perfectly okay.
MR. JACOBS: Yes. And I think that is
consistent with this Court's jurisprudence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, it does seem --
I mean, Justice Breyer's point. It does seem a little
ad hoc. In other words, they don't fit quite together,
and your answer is: Well, we'll just take whatever, you
know, whatever we have to, to make it fit. It would go
under the least imposing on the Government.
It suggests that Congress did not expect the
Tucker Act to apply if you've got to change the remedial
provisions in FCRA to get it to fit under the Tucker
Act.
MR. JACOBS: Well, Your Honor, if I
understand your question correctly, I -- I don't believe
I agree with the premise.
This Court has consistently said, as Your
Honor said, that the Tucker Act only provides an outer
limit for filing, but we'll use the shorter time period.
In Ruckelshaus v. Monsanto, the Court said: No, no, no,
you've got -- because Monsanto didn't want there to be a
Tucker Act claim. It wanted to be able to argue: We
have no relief available to us for having to disclose
the components of our insecticides. And they wanted to
argue: There is no relief available to us.
And this Court said: No, you've got a --
you've got a Tucker Act claim. You do have relief
available to you. And the Court said: Yeah, you didn't
file a claim. There is a procedure where you could file
a -- a claim saying: This is a trade secret, and the --
you then would have arbitration. And the Court said:
You haven't done that; go ahead and do that and then
let's see what happens. But you've got a Tucker Act
claim.
And incidentally, in that regard, in
Ruckelshaus v. Monsanto, the Court discussed extensively
the Restatement of Torts as to whether a trade secret --
a listed trade secret under the Restatement of Torts,
and then went ahead and said: No. You've got a Tucker
Act claim here.
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. So is -- are you
also saying, FCRA, the underlying statute, clearly
waives sovereign immunity, so we don't have to worry
about whether the standard is a weak standard or a tough
standard, doesn't matter. We win anyway.
MR. JACOBS: Absolutely.
JUSTICE BREYER: So what you want us to say
is, okay. We will apply the tough standard. There's
still -- there's still -- sovereign immunity is waived
in FCRA. And since sovereign immunity is clearly waived
there, then you can bring this under the Tucker Act, and
the only differences are the remedial schemes are
slightly different, but that doesn't matter.
Am I correctly stating what you are now
telling us?
MR. JACOBS: I'm telling Your Honor that we
win under such a test. We don't believe such a test is
called for, but if -- if such a test were used, we still
win because you do have such a clear waiver.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: One of the purposes of
the Tucker Act was to provide a remedy, where none
existed, to get rid of the private bills. What's wrong
with the Government's basic proposition which is where
you have a remedy you have to pursue that remedy. And I
think that, at bottom, that's their argument.
What's wrong with that scheme? Instead of
permitting two remedies with potentially conflicting
commands, whether it's on the amount of damages or the
nature of the recovery or the statute of limitations,
why isn't their vision of what the Tucker Act -- the
role the Tucker Act should play one that should be given
voice? One that should be followed?
MR. JACOBS: Your Honor, I would submit that
that would be a substantial change in this Court's
jurisprudence. Congress passed the Tucker Act, and this
court, for years now, has said, "If you meet these
requirements, you may sue under the Tucker Act."
JUSTICE SCALIA: The Government doesn't
concede that you have a cause of action under FCRA at
all.
MR. JACOBS: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They say -- they say just
the opposite. And so what I find peculiar is that there
should be two causes of action for the same thing. You
can proceed either under FCRA or under the Tucker Act or
both. I mean, that's very strange to me. It seems to
me, one or the other, and it would normally be the
specific governing the general.
So if you say there is one under FCRA, why
do we need the Tucker Act?
MR. JACOBS: Your Honor, the Tucker Act,
made available by Congress, could we proceed only under
FCRA? Yes, we could, but the Tucker Act is available,
the statute 1295 says what it says, and we have appealed
to the Court of Appeals. But there is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have any other case
where -- where you -- somebody's been allowed to proceed
under the Tucker Act where there is clear ability to
proceed under some other statute?
MR. JACOBS: Your Honor, I cannot name you a
case off the top of my head. As I said, I believe the
Privacy Act allows you to do either. The -- all --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The FSLA as well.
MR. JACOBS: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The FSLA as well.
MR. JACOBS: Yes. The FSLA -- I was going
to say, as Your Honor said earlier. But the cases
where a Tucker Act remedy has been denied, as I've said,
are where a person was trying to evade a limitation of
the substantive act. That's not this case. This case
is four-square within the court's jurisprudence. The
Government argues now for a new -- and it's not clear to
me exactly what test, but it's a limiting one. It
would -- it would cut back the Tucker Act.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But Mr. Jacobs, you are
trying to evade a certain kind of limitation. The
limitation that you are trying to evade is the rule that
waivers of sovereign immunity have to be express. And
that's the rule you are trying to evade by going under
the Tucker Act.
MR. JACOBS: No, Your Honor. We believe,
and we've maintained throughout, that we do have an
express waiver, 1681(a) --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But then you wouldn't need
to go under the Tucker Act. The difference between
going under the Tucker Act and going under the statute
is the difference between, you know, what -- what
standard is a court going to hold you to, to decide
whether there has been a waiver of sovereign immunity.
MR. JACOBS: The standard, I would submit,
Your Honor, is that the Tucker Act is always available
unless a -- the substantive statute provides a
limitation on that ability; either saying it shall be --
shall be litigated in the Tax Court, it can only be
litigated if it is preceded by a claim, an
administrative claim, some limitation like that. If --
if there's something that says it has to be in another
forum, then you would be evading it. But otherwise, the
Tucker Act remedy is available and it's appropriate and
it's precisely, I would submit, that what do you do --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can finish your
sentence.
MR. JACOBS: -- what do you do when you say,
eh, we think this is -- you know, is this express
enough? And that's the Tucker Act saying, well, it's
clearly a fair inference.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
MR. JACOBS: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Srinivasan, you
have three minutes left.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Srinivasan, I hate to
eat up any of your time, but do you acknowledge that
there are other statutes under which a person can
proceed, either under the statute or under the Tucker
Act?
MR. SRINIVASAN: No, I'm not aware of that
situation, and I think that's why you look to this
remedial provision that Congress enacted to determine
the metes and bounds.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about the Privacy Act?
MR. SRINIVASAN: The Privacy Act has its own
remedial mechanism within it typically.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so you'd say you
either proceed under the Privacy Act and you're covered
there, or you don't --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Or you don't proceed at
all, yeah.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And what about -- what is
it? FSLA was the other one?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, FLSA is a bit
complicated, for the reasons I was adverting to earlier.
It's -- this Court has never confronted the question of
how exactly you go forward under the FLSA. And I think,
because of the ambiguity in the courts to which the FLSA
refers, for the reasons I was discussing with Justice
Sotomayor earlier, I think you could see that statute as
incorporating the Tucker Act itself, but that would be
something that Congress did.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about (u)(l), that
your friend raised?
MR. SRINIVASAN: (u)(i). I think there's
several answers to (u)(i). First of all, I'm not sure
which way that cuts because the fact -- it may be
(u)(l), it may be (u)(i), but (u) -- I'm not sure which
way that cuts because, on one hand, the fact that
Congress specifically provided for the United States to
be liable in certain situations I think cuts in favor of
our understanding, not against it.
But there's a more fundamental point about
the argument that my friend makes on the other side,
which is that that statute was enacted, I think, before
the civil remedies provisions were expanded to encompass
all persons. So it's hard to conclude that that
notwithstanding any other provision would have referred
to something that came along later.
Now, I have two points that I'd like to make
in rebuttal, one of which, there's been some questions
today about which is the specific statute and which is
the general statute.
Now, one, I think, clear indication that the
specific statute for present purposes should be FCRA is
to look at what the Plaintiffs allege.
The Plaintiffs are bringing a FCRA claim,
and there's no mistake about that, because the
Plaintiffs seek the FCRA advantage of statutory damages
of at least $100. And so they're grounding their claim
in the FCRA cause of action. And I think, therefore,
you should look at FCRA to determine whether the
Government is liable.
And you don't have a situation in which you
can mix and match under both; you should look to FCRA to
determine whether there's been a clear and express
waiver of sovereign immunity.
The other point I would like to discuss is
something that -- references something Justice Breyer
was adverting to earlier, which is even if there was
some universe in which you could contemplate a
hybridization where you apply the Tucker Act, even
though there's a cause of action already in the statute,
you wouldn't do so in the context of this case because
there are clear indications that Congress wouldn't have
contemplated a resort to the Tucker Act.
The Tucker Act doesn't apply to torts. This
claim is a tort claim. We know this because the Court
in Safeco a few terms ago -- this is at 551 U.S. 69 --
specifically referred to the Restatement of Torts as a
means of -- interpreting the term willfulness, which is
the linchpin for the claim here.
I see my time has expired.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:03 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
49:6,11,17,24 allow 14:12 21:2 26:12 assault 36:6,21
49:6 51:5,9,11,19 allowed 52:6 41:19 43:15 asserted 19:15
57:19 52:7,11,17,19 allows 5:2 8:15 apply 4:11 6:20 assume 10:22
53:10,15,23 52:11 10:18 12:5 atypical 15:15
54:25 55:13 amended 42:1 25:16 26:15,20 authorized 8:4
action 3:20 32:5 42:6 42:7 47:13 49:12 52:1,2
51:13,18 56:18 and/or 35:6,10 57:4,9 avoid 11:22
actions 9:7 answer 13:7 approach 5:21 awards 29:9,16
acts 14:8 21:16 15:8,10,14 7:6 21:19 aware 54:17
6:18 7:5 26:18 27:7,9 37:10 46:5 appropriate 9:8 awful 35:1
9:3 Act's 21:15 26:7 48:16 47:3 53:23 a.m 1:13 3:2
27:7 answered 32:3 arbitration
11:1 add 42:2 55:18 arguable 41:7 b 14:22,22,24,24
adding 5:5,25 anybody 43:7 41:12 15:6,6 34:11
address 20:8,23 anyway 45:2 arguably 47:3 36:18
addressing 4:13 50:4 argue 44:22 back 30:8 43:23
4:23 29:21 Apache 4:9 49:6,9 52:23
Administration 23:10 28:8,24 argues 52:21 background
16:5 17:1 20:15 apparent 5:22 arguing 36:5 29:1
17:5,19 administrative appeal 32:11,20 47:12 balance 31:5
19:1,2 53:20 32:21 33:1 argument 1:12 bar 37:21
20:2 adopt 48:3 appealed 52:3 2:2,5,8 3:4,6 based 32:12
21:1 advantage 56:16 appealing 10:22 6:14,16 9:20 33:2 37:7
22:5,19 adverting 55:7 10:25 9:25 10:5,5,16 bases 5:25
23:7,24 57:2 Appeals 52:4 16:1,3,16 basic 50:22
affirms 17:9 APPEARAN... 18:10 19:5 basically 4:12
26:5,6 agency 14:25 1:14 20:13,18,21 9:14
31:17 42:3 appendix 9:6 25:16,24 26:4 basis 4:24 5:5
27:3 age-old 21:24 14:2 42:12 26:14 30:8 7:15 8:9 9:11
28:25 ago 57:11 applicable 4:2 31:8 33:20 11:7 12:18
agree 33:4 48:25 25:14,21 27:21 37:9 39:24 13:18 22:5
agreements 28:2,6 30:3,20 43:1 50:24 bear 43:13
34:21 14:10 31:1 43:22 54:10 56:1 begs 29:6
38:18 Agriculture applied 3:16 arguments 47:8 behalf 1:17,18
44:1 41:1 5:11 6:19 arises 29:24 2:4,7,10 3:7
ahead 49:16,23 16:21 25:11 asked 46:4 31:9 54:11
alia 31:16 26:19 42:21 asking 9:21 11:6 believe 31:24
33:24 brings 36:3 45:1 51:13 claimed 32:13 37:10 55:7
35:18 brought 5:19 56:18 57:5 claims 5:15,18 comply 15:21
37:16 8:16 9:7 11:19 causes 51:18 7:20 8:2,15 components
42:20 18:5 cert 42:14 10:16 11:8 49:8
45:7 Brown 17:1 certain 13:10,14 18:4,21 22:11 concede 51:13
50:16 20:14 15:21 16:24 24:1 32:8 conceivable
53:5 brow-beating 17:4 21:16 33:23 34:17 10:18 27:8
b(b)4 14:23 certainly 11:5 46:20 47:11,20 conceived 28:14
54:20 captivity 23:20 57:16 50:9 54:5 conditions 14:21
37:18,23 39:2 41:20 32:7,8,11,21 come 19:20 conform 13:1
care 32:17,22,23 32:22 33:1,5 22:18 24:13 confront 14:5,7
careful 15:23 34:17 44:8 comes 12:2 Congress 3:11
carve 42:22 12:12,19 48:2 40:10 12:6,13 15:17
35:10,15 case 3:4 4:24 circumstances commands 51:2 15:23 17:16,16
36:20,25 10:15 14:4,15 15:24 companies 17:20 18:3,20
14:25 16:3,20 circumvent 5:3 14:12 18:25 19:1,13
49:25 17:19 21:7 17:5 compared 46:20 20:1 21:17,21
57:1 25:2,20 26:13 cite 40:25 compass 19:9 26:18,21,22
42:13 35:6,8 36:25 41:25 47:22 23:14,19 28:19 40:3,10,18
37:6,13 41:1 56:3 28:21,22 42:17,18,20
18:8,14 cases 11:12 34:7 36:4 complaint 5:6 57:7
36:6,12 16:20 17:2 45:14 47:21 6:1 12:18 Congressional
45:10 20:12 28:25 49:6,11,13,14 completely 38:21 45:21
37:6,12,17,20 49:18,24 53:19 40:17 conscious 42:4
cause 32:5 40:4 57:10,10,14 complicated 38:11
48:24 50:13 54:25 department 9:8 32:18 34:2
28:17 31:6 54:6 11:9 12:22 41:1 doctrine 39:12
48:12 57:16 14:11,13 17:19 depend 8:6 Dooley 35:21
12:10 39:2,6 41:20 13:11 doubt 36:16
21:24 44:3,4,5 21:12 drawing 9:11
course 3:22 4:17 cuts 55:19,21,23 described 24:22 D.C 1:8,16
30:19 26:2 D 12:19 E
21:17 4:8 5:9,13,14 Daly 37:3 determination earlier 28:20
21:15 8:16 9:4,8,10 damages 5:18 determine 17:21 55:7,12 57:2
17:2 19:15 29:19 30:13 developed 38:12 ECOA 44:22
29:2 57:3 32:7,10 33:23 date 35:4,4,9 16:19 35:22 51:19 52:11
57:8 34:22 36:7,12 day 17:16 differences 47:2 elaborate 36:13
29:15,19 40:21 45:10,16 dealing 4:21 different 7:25 eliminates 19:21
47:11,20 49:1 dealt 23:13 41:8 44:5,7,14 embedded 28:11
19:13 49:20 51:10 37:18 difficult 9:25 emphatic 44:14
28:7 52:4 53:12,18 Debt 13:13 10:15 30:18 employee 36:2
55:8 57:10 decide 53:12 36:17 44:20 enacted 21:21
8:25 9:2 17:20 decision 6:2,16 digits 35:3 enacting 19:13
35:23 court's 3:10 4:1 4:1 22:1 28:18 disclosed 42:10 encompass 12:6
10:19 15:16 default 17:23 discovery 46:25 encompasses
23:16 27:2,4 defined 30:11 discussed 43:24 enforce 18:8,15
48:12 51:8 definition 38:13 discussing 55:11 enormous 38:11
covered 13:25 denied 52:17 16:18 entity 44:16,17
express 7:3 51:19,23 52:2 55:9 33:21 43:17
53:2,7 54:3 FCRA's 13:22 46:10 15:8 38:3,6
expressed 12:14 features 4:1 four-square give 5:13 23:12
expression 5:10 8:1,11,14 11:4 free-standing 38:8 51:5
extend 27:8 33:10 34:12,17 37:22 55:16 33:10,10,11,20
53:1 extensively 38:11 39:11 FSLA 7:16 48:17 49:16
49:20 fiduciary 37:18 52:12,14,15 53:9 55:9
40:7 extraordinarily file 34:7 45:14 17:14 10:24 24:21
39:14 F financial 38:8 55:25 41:11,12 45:10
55:9 facing 39:25 find 51:17 fundamentally 45:19 52:15
15:19 32:2 55:19,21 finish 53:25 furnishing good 9:14 19:5
22:12 fair 7:18,24 11:8 first 7:12 13:4 14:21 govern 16:8
24:25 11:9 17:19 37:6 38:13 further 31:4 48:2
38:18 46:11 47:24 55:18 future 3:20 governed 12:22
fairly 6:5,11 fit 48:15,17,21 G governing 20:4
46:19 five 35:3 31:8 Government 6:7
15:7 fashioned 15:17 FLSA 7:3,9,12 11:23 16:3,7 14:6,8,11,12
FBI 42:10 43:16 55:6,9,10 17:15,22 18:2 15:20,20,21,24
18:5 20:22,22 footnote 23:16 48:3 51:22 32:2 33:4
38:16 30:24 31:25 forth 7:23 9:4,5 generally 20:7 37:25 38:22
43:4 32:25 33:8,24 15:16 16:13 54:5 39:21,22 40:22
34:5,21,24 19:7 20:6 information 41:18 42:1
46:1,15 35:9 36:17 21:15,23 22:3 42:10 43:17 43:2,5,12,15
48:18 37:4,16 38:2 22:22 23:25 insecticides 49:8 43:20 45:4,7
52:21 38:19 39:15 24:12 26:9 insofar 48:3 46:17,21,24
40:25 41:18 38:9,18 39:8 instance 7:13 47:16 48:5,8
9:6 12:15 45:5 47:17 40:12,19 41:14 intended 10:17 50:15 51:7,15
39:24 48:23 49:2 44:23 50:2,8,9 20:1 36:16 51:25 52:9,13
50:22 50:15 51:7,25 53:2,13 56:24 intent 3:13 5:17 52:15,24 53:5
53:15 implicated 24:7 45:21 JAMES 1:6
30:22 implications 12:12 39:24 judicial 8:4
11:13 hope 47:5 import 39:23 interpreted 6:6 jurisdiction
14:4 15:8 hoping 45:4 importance 44:7 6:12 37:17 4:14,24 8:2,9
21:5 hurdle 29:8 impose 24:6 interpreting 8:12,14,17,25
27:13 hybridization imposed 17:18 57:13 9:4,10 24:1
32:19 57:4 imposing 48:18 invasion 35:16 34:3 45:17
44:25 hypo 30:18 impression 47:1 37:14 jurisdictional
20:10 identical 43:25 13:14 6:13 14:4 52:20
29:20 44:13 incidentally 18:23 23:15 Justice 1:16 3:3
56:4 identically 41:2 49:19 29:11,15 38:7 3:9,14,22,23
illiquid 36:10 including 5:9 11:1,6,13
45:16 24:8 9:3 55:13 31:7,8,10,22 15:8 16:1,18
24:17 9:16 11:8 12:1 indications 57:7 37:16,25 38:4 24:21 25:5,12
32:1,9,15 12:2,7,15 inference 46:11 38:5,19 39:14 25:24 26:23
29:5 33:7 34:13,15 limited 10:6 match 56:22 30:6 31:13,19
36:4,8,9 46:2 21:16,18 42:16
47:14 48:17 limiting 52:22 35:24 50:4,12 Monsanto 49:4
53:11 54:3 linchpin 57:14 57:19 49:5,20
32:4,13 57:10 liquid 36:10 mean 9:19 16:3 Moore 41:1,1
33:3 Knowing 39:1 listed 49:22 21:14 22:5 43:24
knowledge lists 25:13 26:10 30:15 Mountain 4:9
34:13,23 38:20 literally 10:18 32:5,18 34:1 23:10 28:8,24
35:10,15 known 40:1 27:8 35:1,5,25 37:20
36:20,25 knows 47:5 litigant 5:2 38:10 43:7 multitude 38:8
38:3,6 litigated 53:18 46:12 47:8
L 53:19 48:14 51:20 N
41:4,22 l 43:1,2 55:15,20 little 8:7 37:10means 35:5 N 2:1,1 3:1
43:3,7 Labor 7:24 48:14 37:12 41:6 name 52:9
44:24 Lane 5:14 6:3 live 21:18 47:12 57:13 narrow 44:25
46:4,12 6:17 long 3:10 35:19 meant 4:11 national 14:23
47:1 language 8:10 longer 44:22 34:20 42:8
21:2 36:9 longstanding mechanism 4:4 naturally 28:14
50:6,19 large 39:17,17 45:8 11:22 54:23 28:22 29:24
52:5 largest 39:2 look 3:23 6:4 mechanisms nature 23:23
law 25:2 29:2 7:12,15,16,17 47:6 51:3
54:6,8 36:4,8 37:7 14:16 17:4,20Medicaid 24:9 necessarily 7:21
40:1 45:3,5 19:1,10,12,16 24:10,24 30:10 8:8 13:23
47:5 21:4,20,23 meet 51:10 22:14 28:19
left 23:7 54:9 22:21 23:2 met 24:3 29:2
17:24 let's 49:17 56:22 Minimum 46:18 53:8
25:12 liability 15:25 looking 3:18 Mining 45:15 negative 17:8,11
39:21,23 16:23 17:3,9 7:12 24:19 minutes 54:9 17:13
41:4 17:18,22 18:21 lose 21:8 mistake 56:15 network 14:10
53:8 18:24 19:14,22 lost 26:23 32:19Mitchell 4:9 never 3:19 10:1
41:25 42:11,18 46:12 money 6:6,12 new 7:6 24:5
liable 43:14 M 22:7 26:19 52:21
28:12 limit 49:3 making 18:10 33:21,21 34:15 noncompliance
limitation 26:6 mandate 6:6,12 34:23 12:25
34:7 53:1,17,20 10:20,20 26:19 27:5,11 normally 35:16
13:6 16:7 45:14 46:19 23:17 28:3,4,15,23 notion 13:21
22:13 48:4 51:3 massive 39:25 29:3,11,12,18 19:8
42:15 overcome 11:3 permit 16:12 30:2 53:24 proposition
56:5 22:24 permits 16:8 predicate 24:2 11:11,23 19:25
owed 23:19 person 13:22 premise 48:25 protect 39:18
24:24,25 page 2:2 14:2 persons 18:9 presume 7:7 provide 44:23
27:19 42:14 30:11,23 31:15 presumption 50:20
pages 14:1 31:16 41:23 19:22 40:17 provided 55:22
30:3 part 14:22 15:10 56:4 41:17 provider 24:9
33:2 36:11 petition 42:13 26:20 27:3 providers 30:10
24:6 44:4 Petitioner 1:4 pretty 30:15 30:11
participate 1:17 2:4,10 3:7 principal 29:4 provides 11:3
26:13 13:13,16 14:3 16:4 36:5 principles 26:9 provision 9:1
32:16 parts 44:5 12:3 24:13 prior 16:20 19:12,16 25:13
48:10 party 18:8,14 31:2 51:5 prison 23:19 42:15 43:8
24:9 45:11 please 3:9 31:11 prisoners 23:14 44:12 45:21
51:9 48:14 55:25 35:16 37:14 46:13 48:21
23:13 27:25 points 45:22 problem 5:1 purposes 5:18
29:19 posed 36:17 proceed 51:19 50:19 56:12
51:17 24:15 48:9 54:25 55:2 put 41:23
31:8 42:16 potential 9:11 prohibition p.m 57:18
48:10 potentially 8:22 prohibits 16:6,9 Q
9:19 reasoning 4:25 34:4,6 48:20 47:22 49:14 50:1
13:4 5:1 50:11 54:19,23 reverse 9:15 53:17 54:4
14:5 reasons 55:7,11 remedies 43:8 reversed 9:1 says 8:13 10:8
15:10 rebuttal 2:8 43:10 51:1 Review 47:23 18:14,14 24:8
19:10,20 54:10 56:8 56:3 rid 50:21 24:22 30:2
receipts 39:2 remedy 7:5 8:4 right 8:13 15:4 34:1,10 35:2
25:8 recognized 7:4 15:13,13 42:16 20:5,18,22,24 36:18,20 37:11
27:15 recommend 50:20,23,23 23:8 24:16 37:23 38:1
9:14 52:17 53:23 25:4,7 29:13 40:7 41:20
29:6,8 Record 38:21 rephrase 27:1 32:14 33:12,21 42:14 44:9,14
recover 31:25 reply 47:14 35:7,11 37:1 44:16 45:10,16
31:13 recovery 51:3 reporting 7:18 38:10 41:24 52:3,3 53:21
34:19 reference 15:2 11:9,10 12:23 44:24 49:25 Scalia 10:22
40:10 19:15 27:7 17:19 38:18 rights 18:9,15 11:1,6 14:14
30:23 38:21 42:3 ROBERTS 3:3 14:18 15:4
55:8 references 13:22 reports 14:21 20:3,17,20,25 16:1,18 17:7
56:8 referred 56:5 requirement 33:25 37:9,22 22:4,10,15,20
39:25 refers 8:25 51:11 role 51:5 34:13,23 39:7
48:15 10:16 55:11 requires 27:5 route 7:25 42:25 43:3,7
10:6,14 5:15,16,24 14:3 16:17 15:12 16:5 18:1,2,17
reinforces 6:17 24:17 34:5 25:22 21:20,23 23:1
10:1,14 relevant 28:5 Respondent 27:19 28:9,13 24:22 25:19,25
36:9 30:6 1:19 2:7 31:9 29:25 26:2,3,5,13,14
16:11 remedial 4:3 Restatement sanction 12:24 scope 18:21
20:4 7:10 10:11 49:21,22 57:12 sanctions 43:9 21:21 22:3
39:25 11:22 17:17,21 rests 22:7 43:10 second 4:4
18:1,16 21:20 result 6:3 9:20 satisfied 5:12 secret 49:14,21
13:9 15:5 23:21 24:18 retain 40:8,19 saying 8:23 11:2 section 5:15,20
24:2,19 25:13,19,25 retains 40:6,12 16:10,11 25:2 5:24 31:15
34:18 26:2,3,5,13,14 41:15 35:2 36:6 42:7 42:15 43:9,11
45:24 27:14,17 28:11 reticulated 34:6 45:1 47:18,20 security 14:23
somebody's 20:6,22 23:18 States 1:1,3,12 33:1,15 34:10
43:19 sorry 6:23 14:19 55:22 57:12 5:23 9:8 10:3 36:7,18 37:11
49:17 20:19 33:16 specificity 28:5 11:19 12:21,22 38:12 40:4,4
57:15 38:5 52:13 specified 37:7 12:25 13:5,17 40:10,15 41:2
4:18 6:21,23 3:6 54:10 20:23 22:13,16 47:22 50:1
54:1 24:21 25:5 3:21,25 4:17 27:20,25 28:5 55:12 56:2,9
30:7,15,18 7:11 8:6,13,21 29:20 30:1,1,4 statutes 3:21
sought 6:19 13:3 14:16,19 36:5 38:8 23:9 29:3
23:18 sounds 35:15 17:12,24,25 43:16 44:11,12 54:14
43:9 36:13 18:11,19 19:24 44:18,21,22 statutory 11:20
7:14,16 9:16 23:8 24:14,16 4:3,5,7,15,21 steps 24:4 47:24
39:12 40:1,6,8 12:13,20 41:6 18:7,9,11,14 16:13
speaks 9:7 13:19 standards 7:24 22:18,21,22,23 31:19,19 32:10
54:18 11:3,11,23 stands 12:4 15:5 23:2,13,14,18 submit 34:5
13:12 16:2,7 17:19 23:20 24:2,6 35:20 36:17
55:23 17:17 18:1,6 started 23:3,6,6 25:15,25 26:1 51:7 53:14,24
51:22 56:9,12 state 8:12,14 28:2,11,20 subsequent 42:6
tax 45:16 53:18 34:14 36:23 truncation 14:4 56:7
15:11
25:21 46:14 42:5 46:8,13 Truth 44:2,11 typically 54:23
28:6,9 tell 35:1 36:9 48:11 50:24 try 27:1
29:25 telling 50:14,15 54:3,18 55:9 trying 16:4 U
45:12 term 15:6 57:13 55:12,17,23 45:11,13,18,20 u 43:15 55:15,17
53:16 terms 12:3,16 56:2,11,18 52:18,25 53:1 55:18,20,20,20
34:2,22 39:4,15 57:11 16:25 19:2 Tucker 3:15,20
51:11
25:9 52:22 three 54:9 10:1,6,7,14,21 55:24
22:5 10:5,14,23 today 3:15 56:9 19:1,2,11,21 5:10,16 6:8
36:12,14 Thank 3:8 31:6 told 19:13 20:2,5,8,25 22:1,2 46:7,9
18:15 25:8 37:12,14,19,24 25:16 26:5,6,7 3:4 4:5,6 5:19
10:13 51:18 49:21,22 57:9 32:12 33:2 13:18 14:25
55:18,20 things 24:23 57:12 37:7 40:14,20 15:2,7,12,13
44:20 think 4:10 6:17 tough 50:3,7 47:21 48:20,21 19:8,23 20:7
trade 49:14,21 49:2,6,11,17 20:23 22:13,16
18:19,20,25 traditionally 52:7,17,23 28:9,10,13
23:3,8,9,15,24 38:8 55:13 57:4,8,9 34:16 35:23
25:7,18,20,23 Tribe 4:9 23:10 twice 42:23 42:19,22 43:14
waiving 11:7 worded 41:2 14:14
want 25:23 33:9 words 36:1 1681b(b)(4)
50:6 worry 50:2 1681(b)(b)
10:2 Washington 1:8 write 44:25 1681(p) 9:5 34:1
20:14 1:16 written 24:6 1681(u) 43:16
41:1 way 6:19 7:11 40:16 1681(u)(i) 42:9
7:17,21 8:18 wrong 50:21,25 1681(u)(l) 42:14
20:13 12:10 15:18 X 1996 42:2
21:18,19 26:17 24:22 30:10,10 2
55:19,21 Y 24:10,11,23 2012 1:9
10:25
22:2 you're 10:22 4a 14:20,20 15:6
19:14
45:10,19 Z
41:14 we've 10:5 40:1
Z 24:10,23 30:10 5
5 46:24,25
8:3 White 4:9 23:10
16:13 $ 54 2:10
37:20 $100 56:17 551 57:11
21:15 who's 29:12
24:12 willfulness 1 6
38:17 57:13 11-192 1:4 3:4 6 46:22
46:7,9 willing 39:9,10 11:02 1:13 3:2 69 57:11
53:7,13 win 20:17,20 12:03 57:18
21:8 41:8 46:5 7
52:3
9:5
53:2 wonder 39:3 78a 42:14
9:6
50:2 44:13,14 1681b(b)(b)
