IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MICHAEL SHANE CHRISTOPHER, ET AL.,:
Petitioners : No. 11-204
v. :
SMITHKLINE BEECHAM CORPORATION, :
DBA GLAXOSMITHKLINE. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, April 16, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Petitioners.
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Petitioners.
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States,
as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners 16
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 30
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 62
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning in Case 11-204, Christopher v. SmithKline
Beecham.
Mr. Goldstein.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, may it
please the Court:
In the Fair Labor Standards Act, Congress
directed the Secretary of Labor to quote/unquote "define
and delimit" the statute's outside salesman exemption.
By regulation, the Secretary provided that an outside
salesman is one who makes sales rather than promoting
sales by others. In further guidance, the Secretary
elaborated that nonexempt promotion includes either,
one, a conversation where there can be no commitment or,
two, one where there will be no exchange with the
employer.
Now, everyone agrees that a pharmaceutical
detailer engages in promotion. They tout drugs to
doctors. Everyone agrees that there can't be a
commitment to issue a prescription. Everyone agrees
that a prescription is not an exchange with a
pharmaceutical company. But nonetheless, the Respondent
argues that pharmaceutical detailers sell drugs directly
to doctors as a matter of law. They say that follows
from the fact that the Secretary's regulation
incorporates the definition of "sale" in the FLSA, which
is in the blue brief in the appendix at page 1.
That definition, which is section 203(k),
provides -- it's the second provision on the page --
"'sale' or 'sell' includes any sale, exchange, contract
to sell, consignment for sale, shipment for sale, or
other disposition." And what you will not find in that
language is anything that contradicts the two points the
Secretary has made, which is that there has to be a
commitment or that, at the very least, there has to be
an exchange with the employer.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, is that consistent
with the Government's argument? They argue, quote, "an
employee does not make a 'sale' for purposes of the
'outside salesman' exemption unless he actually
transfers title to the property at issue." The statute
refers to a consignment for sale. When that occurs,
does -- does the consignor actually transfer title to
the property at issue?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It is an arrangement for
transfer of title, and that's why it's critical that it
says a consignment for sale, the sale being the transfer
of title. But in all events, this case is not a fight
about transferring title or some lesser form of
exchange, because there's no exchange between the doctor
and the --
JUSTICE ALITO: I understand that, but I
would appreciate an answer --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- to my question.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is the Government's position
consistent with the reference to consignment for sale?
When a consignment for sale occurs, is there a transfer
of title?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: There is an agreement for a
transfer of title, and I believe there --
JUSTICE ALITO: Is there a -- a transfer of
title?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I apologize. There is not a
transfer of title, but there is an agreement for a
transfer of title. They -- just to be clear, the
Government says the definition of "sale" includes a
transfer of title. And so, all I'm pointing out, if I
could just go back to the definition -- I apologize for
not answering --
JUSTICE ALITO: No, no, I understand. I
understand your position to be different from theirs.
But I --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Oh, no --
JUSTICE ALITO: Perhaps I should ask them
about -- about their position.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. Well, I apologize if
I've created some --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I -- I don't
agree that there's an agreement for transfer of title.
Where there's a consignment, you give the property to
somebody, and he says I will sell it to somebody if
somebody will buy it.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There is no agreement to
transfer title.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: There is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's purely a future
contingency. If someone will buy it, I will sell
them -- sell it to that person on your account.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. I believe -- I will
allow you -- I apologize saying "I will allow you."
The --
(Laughter.)
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It would be -- you can do, I
know, whatever you want.
The Government can explain it --
JUSTICE ALITO: No, not really, but
anyway, go ahead.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. All right. It is --
the statute refers to a consignment for sale. I believe
they're defining a sale in that phrase. But in all
events, the debate over whether it includes or is
limited to a transfer of title is not at issue in this
case, because what the -- because all the statute
requires is that there, at the very least, be some
exchange of some part. There's going to be an -- a
binding agreement, a commitment, and that commitment
will involve an exchange with the employer. What
happens in pharmaceutical detailing is that there can't
be any commitment to issue a prescription at all --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because -- because the
limitation on sale is they can't sell -- by Federal law,
they can't sell. And you -- you are debating about
exchange, sale. What strikes one about this case is
that these are workers -- they work autonomously. They
don't clock in and out. They work outside the
workplace. After they're trained, they have minimal
supervision.
Is there any other category of exempt
workers that have that kind of autonomy and yet come
under the wage and hours law?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I'm sorry. So, your premise
is that they are exempt to begin with? There -- I can
tell you that there are a large number of employees who
do work outside the workplace and are substantially more
autonomous than are pharmaceutical detailers, who have
to operate from very strict scripts. There are -- it's
literally --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: For example, what are
the -- that's what I wanted to know. What are the
categories of people that seem to be autonomous, not the
type that clocks in and out?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. Well, you can have
emergency service workers that are working outside.
There are lots of people -- so, for example, you may
well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- I don't
understand what that is.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I apologize.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's an emergency service
worker?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: A police officer or a
fireman, an ambulance driver. They are constantly
outside the office. You can also have lots of different
kinds of promotion --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. They're not on
duty all the time. Aren't -- don't they have hours of
duty? My goodness. Some of them make enormous overtime
wages because they've put in hours beyond their regular
hours of duty --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, that -- my --
JUSTICE SCALIA: These people have no hours
of duty.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is not quite right,
Justice Scalia. They are expected -- the joint appendix
explains -- to be in the doctors' offices between 8:30
and 5:00 p.m. They work additional time. The fact
that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, doesn't that
just -- I mean, that's when the doctors are there.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's -- but that is when
they are supposed to be in the doctors' offices. That's
dictated by the company.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about -- what about
the extras? I mean, we're told that part of this job is
to have a good relationship with the doctors. It
includes dinners. It may be conventions.
Entertainment, maybe golf. If -- if you're right, would
the time on the golf course get time and a half?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, a couple things about
that, Justice Ginsburg.
(Laughter.)
MR. GOLDSTEIN: There actually are very
strict restrictions. That kind of activity is under the
PhRMA Code, which is trying to interpret Federal law, is
actually very heavily restricted. But whatever it is
that the employee is doing to further the employment
relationship is going to be hours on duty. It is really
important I think that while it is true that a
pharmaceutical detailer has many of the characteristics
of an outside salesman, the one they don't have is
selling.
And that is the line that Congress drew.
It --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You were -- you were
giving examples, and we just stopped at --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- emergency service
worker. But you said there are many examples --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- of people who are
highly autonomous and still come under the hours
regulation.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. Another example would
be insurance adjusters. There are people who are
outside cleaning people that are not -- that don't have
any --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And these are all -- these
are all within the Fair Labor Standards Act?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Yes, Justice Kennedy,
they absolutely are.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there any occupations
or pursuits that are not covered by the Fair Labor
Standards Act because -- on the rationale that they are
out, that they are unsupervised, and so forth. In other
words, if you were arguing the case of the Respondent,
would you -- would you have any close analogies to areas
that are not -- that are exempt; in other words, they
wouldn't be salesmen, but there'd be some other
classifications to fit them in?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I would, but they would all
be one of two things. They would either fall within the
administrative exemption, which is, Justice Ginsburg,
what is -- Congress was talking about when it talked about
people who have a lot of autonomy, and which is not true
of detailers -- or some other exemption. So, to give an
example, certain outside buyers are exempt under the
Fair Labor Standards Act. A good -- that's a good
example, because if you're an outside buyer of poultry,
then you are exempt, but if you are an outside buyer of
meat, you aren't.
It is one of a lot of different places --
there are 50-some exemptions from the Fair Labor
Standards Act. And Congress drew incredibly fine lines.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Congress can draw -- draw
even silly lines.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If Congress draws it, it's
a line. But the line you're suggesting here -- both
your brief and the Government's, as I recall, say, my
goodness, if we find for the Respondent here, there'll
be so much uncertainty in the future. I'm not sure
there isn't a lot of uncertainty if we -- if we find in
your direction.
Now, let me give you an example. One of my
law clerks -- my law clerks supplement my sparse life
experience.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: One of my law clerks is
familiar with the -- the framing business. Okay? Now,
salesmen of frames do not sell the frames at the time
that they visit the -- the framing company or the
framing store. They get a commitment that in the
future, that person will order from the framing company.
Now, is that a sale?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is a sale, but the
difference here is that there's neither a commitment --
remember, the commitment is illegal as a matter of law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but there is a
commitment. There is a commitment to -- what they're
trying to get is a commitment to consider this drug if
it's appropriate for prescription to patients in the
future. That's a commitment.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia, if that is
the commitment, then all of promotion I think is going
to be a sale, because every promoter who walks up to you
on the street saying will you try my product, will you
go into the store, is trying to get you to say I'll go
in. And that is much more of a direct commitment than
you saying I'll consider it in an appropriate
circumstance.
The commitment by a doctor is precatory at
most. They do not make any commitment in any instance
that can be binding in any way that they will prescribe
a drug for anyone.
And remember, there is the second -- the
second distinction. So, that's one. But the second is
that -- remember, there is a purchase in your
hypothetical of framing, a purchase from the framing
store. But the second part of the Secretary's guidance
is that when the doctor decides to issue a prescription,
they're not exchanging anything with the drug company.
There -- nothing is acquired from the drug company.
That is a very significant difference.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a peculiar line of
commerce. And -- and you're saying that what
constitutes a sale -- a salesman cannot take account of
the fact that this is a weird line of commerce, where
you're selling to people who cannot make a commitment.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, there are two things.
The first is the commitment, and they are not selling
anything to the doctor. Remember, just to frame this
industry, the pharmaceutical company sells its products;
it sells them to pharmaceutical wholesalers, which sell
them to pharmacies -- pardon me -- which sell them to
customers, which have a relationship with a doctor, who
may or may not have met with a detailer.
There is a sale here in this industry, but
it is to a pharmaceutical detailer, and that is a very
significant difference. The critical point as well for
purposes of --
JUSTICE KAGAN: May I ask you --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Goldstein, doesn't --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you to follow
up on other -- other categories of employee? You gave
me cleaning workers, emergency service workers. Are any
of those categories people who get paid commissions?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Those are not, but the
example that I gave to Justice Kennedy would be, which
is that there are outside buyers who do receive
commissions. And remember, of course, that there are
outside salesmen who do not receive commissions but are
nonetheless exempt. Congress didn't write an exemption
about commissions; it wrote them about whether it's an
outside person who engages in sales.
And the other point I was trying to make is
that -- and Justice Scalia echoed it to some extent --
and that is that the FLSA draws very fine lines. If you
work for a movie theater you are exempt, but not a
playhouse. If you work for a small newspaper but not a
small magazine, you're exempt. If you care for the
elderly but not the young, you're exempt.
And what Congress said is that there has to
be -- you are an outside salesman and that -- it is true
that this is a peculiar industry, but the peculiarity of
it is that you don't make sales.
If I could reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Stewart.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS
MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
It's common ground in this case that in
order to be an outside salesman, an employee must make
sales. And in theory there are two different ways in
which Respondent could have attempted to establish that
the PSRs in this case fit that criteria.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you answer
Justice Alito's question? Your brief to the Second
Circuit and the Ninth Circuit suggested that a sale is
a -- is a transaction, a transfer of some sort, or at
least a promise to purchase. But your brief here calls
it a much more rigid test, that there has to be a
transfer of title. And he pointed to the language of
3(x) -- 3(k), that says "consignment for sale," which
doesn't have a transfer of the title. So, what is the
Government's position?
MR. STEWART: Well, the DOL regulations have
since 19 -- I believe it's since 1949, have said that
"make a sale" within the meaning of 203(k), the term
"making a sale" within the meaning of 3(k) includes a
transfer of title. And in theory, the verb "includes"
could leave open the possibility that other things could
be included as well. We've never encountered a
situation in which DOL has found a sale of goods without
a transfer of title. But in direct answer to your
question, Justice Alito, about --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, excuse me.
Consignment salesmen are -- are not exempt?
MR. STEWART: It would be -- with specific
respect to consignments for sale, it would have been
more precise to say that there has to be a transfer of
possession in contemplation of a transfer of title.
JUSTICE ALITO: And what about salesmen
who -- whose objective is to obtain a rental? The lower
courts have said that they qualify. Does the Government
disagree with that?
MR. STEWART: DOL believes that they
qualify, but not as sales of goods. And if the -- the
Court could look at the appendix to the blue brief on
page 4. This is the pertinent regulation that refers to
making sales or obtaining orders.
And it says: "Section 541.500 requires that
the employee be engaged in making sales within the
meaning of section 3(k) of the Act or obtaining orders
or contracts for services or for the use of facilities."
And DOL's view is that a rental agreement would be a
contract for services or for the use of facilities.
And the way --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. How can they
put in number (2)? I -- I thought that 3(k) is 3(k).
Can -- can they supplement 3(k)?
MR. STEWART: They have supplemented 3(k),
and they did that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the authority to do
that?
MR. STEWART: The -- this is discussed in
the Stein Report, which was issued in 1940, and what had
happened was that the question had arisen -- and the
Stein report lays this out in a fair amount of detail.
The question had arisen whether individuals who
negotiate for contracts to buy time on the radio or sell
time -- sell advertising space in newspapers or sell --
negotiate contracts for carriage of freight by rail or
truck -- the question arose whether they were outside
salesmen within the meaning of the statute.
And the Stein Report explained that the Wage
and Hour Division had taken the position that they were
not because it interpreted "sales" -- it appears to have
interpreted "sales" to refer only to sales of goods, and
people who were engaged in those sorts of businesses
were not selling goods. But the Stein Report said:
However, these people are commonly regarded as salesmen;
the contracts they negotiate are treated as sales.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's wonderful.
Then if you can go beyond 3(k), I guess really the
question before us is whether it's arbitrary or
capricious for the agency not to extend their -- their
power to supplement 3(k) to this situation, which these
people look like salesmen to me.
And so, if they can do number (2) there, I
don't know why -- why the agency couldn't say, oh, and
by the way, detailers are also included.
MR. STEWART: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the issue would be
whether it's unreasonable for them not to say that.
MR. STEWART: The agency has taken the
position that, even though it has construed 3(k) to
refer only to sales of goods, that sales of services or
contracts for the use of facilities can be covered.
However, there's a big difference between the
interaction between a detailer and a physician and the
interaction between the -- the person who sells time on
the radio. The person --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure there is; sure there
is. But once you -- once you concede that it doesn't
have to be within 3(k) and that it's within the power of
the agency to grant the exemption anyway, then we really
have a different -- a different argument before us here.
MR. STEWART: Well, the -- the theory on
which the Stein Report proceeded was that, even though
sales of time on the radio were not sales of goods, they
were still customarily regarded as sales, and they had
the essential attributes of sales; namely, an exchange
of something valuable that the seller possessed in
return for consideration from the buyer. And you don't
have any of that when the detailer deals with the --
with the --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Stewart, there's this
other regulation which is I guess in the coverage
section, 779.241, which says that if an employee
performs any work that in a practical sense is an
essential part of consummating the sale of the goods,
he'll be considered to be selling the goods.
So, I guess this question is a two-part
question. Do you agree that that regulation does cover
the -- these detailers? And the second part is, if you
do, you know, how does it work that we should understand
"sale" one way for purposes of coverage and another way
for purposes of exemption?
MR. STEWART: Well, the first thing I would
say is that we wouldn't agree that this would cover
detailers. That is, if the relevant sales are, as we
believe, GSK's sales to -- the transfer of drugs to
wholesalers and pharmacies in return for consideration,
the detailers don't play an essential role in the
consummation of those sales. They don't participate in
those sales. It's true that their mission is to engage
in activities which set in motion a chain of events that
will make those sales more likely to occur, but we
wouldn't regard them as --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But that seems a little bit
blind to the way the industry actually works. The way
this industry actually works is the real work is done by
the detailer getting the doctor to say, yes, I'm going
to start prescribing this where it's medically
appropriate. The actual sales from the company to the
pharmacy just follows from however successful the
detailer is.
MR. STEWART: But I think much the same
thing could have been said about all the promotional
workers that DOL has done with -- has dealt with in the
past. That is, the premise, the justification for a
company to hire a promotional worker, is that the
promotional activities will increase the overall sales
of the company, will either directly or indirectly set
in motion a chain of events that leads people to buy the
product. But DOL has historically regarded those
activities as distinct from selling the product.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, do those employees
work on commissions?
MR. STEWART: Some employees may work on
commission. Some --
JUSTICE ALITO: Promotional workers do work
on commissions?
MR. STEWART: It's -- I don't think there is
necessarily a uniform rule one way or the other. The
Stein Report did say in 1940 that, although it was
characteristic for outside salesmen to receive
commissions, that was not the test, that that was a
quirk of compensation. The other thing I would say --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did we have detailers in
1940? Gee, that's a long time ago. Did we have
detailers in 1940? That's almost a century ago.
MR. STEWART: There were detailers in that
era, and --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's my point, actually.
That's where I'm sort of bothered, just exactly what
Justice Scalia said, that if you look through what I've
seen so far by the materials, they're pretty evenly
balanced, and there are tens of thousands of people who
work in this industry, and there's a history of 75 years
of nobody said anything.
So you would think -- and it isn't the only
problem that has just been recognized in other
industries, too. If the agency is going to reverse, not
reverse, but suddenly do something it hasn't done for
75 years, the right way to do it is to have notice and
comment, hearings, allow people to present their point
of view, and then make some rules or determine what
should happen. Perhaps they'd say for the future let's
do this, but not let's give people a windfall for the
past. Perhaps they'd say some and not others. Okay?
That's my instinctive reaction, not
necessarily legal, but informed by administrative law.
But why shouldn't I try to get there?
MR. STEWART: I guess I'd say two things,
one general and one specific to detailers. The general
thing is that DOL has consistently drawn a distinction
between promotional work --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I've read those.
MR. STEWART: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: I've read those, and I find
them beautifully ambiguous.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I'll go back and read them
again, and if they're absolutely clear, you win, fine,
that's the end of it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it's gone on for
70 years, and you're -- and instead of doing a
regulation, amended regulation, as Justice Breyer
indicates, you're filing amicus briefs quietly in
different -- different courts. It seems to me that's
not nearly as fair or straightforward or as candid as --
as an agency ought to be.
MR. STEWART: Well, with respect to where
the industry expectation arose, we have only one data
point or at least only one data point that has been
identified in the briefs. That is the National
Federation of Independent Small Business Legal Center
has filed an amicus brief on Respondent's side, and then
they -- they identify one DOL opinion letter, of which
we were previously unaware, that dates from 1945. And
in the opinion letter, the employer of the detailer
asked for an opinion to the effect that its detailers
were covered by the administrative exemption. That
employer didn't request a ruling that these were outside
salesmen. And DOL --
JUSTICE BREYER: You're right about that,
and so, they're at fault, too. But on the other hand,
their employees might have been satisfied, and this is
done to protect the employees.
So, I'm asking, not saying, but what is the
process here? How do you know -- at what level was this
agency decision made to suddenly go ahead with this?
Who made it? What was the input? How do you know
they're on your side? You do know; you're right. But I
mean, what's the process internally?
MR. STEWART: Internally, the -- the
Solicitor's Office at the Department of Labor would
consult with the Wage and Hour Division. The
Solicitor's name went on the briefs both that were filed
in the Ninth Circuit and the brief -- I mean, the Ninth
Circuit and also the Novartis brief in the Second
Circuit. And the Solicitor's name is on the
Government's brief in this Court. The Solicitor is the
third-highest-ranking individual within the Department
of Labor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you -- I'm sorry
to interrupt your answer, but does your office review
the amicus filings in the courts of appeals by the
agencies?
MR. STEWART: There was SG authorization for
the amicus brief to be filed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that the normal
procedure?
MR. STEWART: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But this is part of a
regular program that the agency has now instituted, to
run around the country and file amicus briefs; is that
it?
MR. STEWART: To clarify -- well, to clarify
the agency's view of what the proper understanding of
the law is. And in terms of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, right, to get --
instead of doing rulemaking, instead of doing
adjudication, we're going to file amicus briefs, and the
court will accept our view in that amicus brief and,
hey, presto, we have -- we have made law.
MR. STEWART: Well, maybe yes, maybe no --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's extraordinary.
MR. STEWART: Well, in comparison to the
alternative step of filing enforcement actions, it's
both --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the alternative step
..-- well, did the Secretary of Labor herself or himself,
depending on when it was, consider this matter?
MR. STEWART: I don't know whether the
Secretary --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, we don't. All right.
So --
MR. STEWART: But --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, the alternative is not
enforcement actions, necessarily. The alternative is
for the agency to focus on the question and decide what
it actually wants to do.
MR. STEWART: And the agency has regarded
the application of its promotion sales regulations to
the facts of this case as clear. That is, if you asked
GSK's highest level management why does it make sense to
employ detailers, they wouldn't say because they get
these commitments from physicians which are of value to
the company. The commitments or the quasi-commitments
from physicians in and of themselves are of no value.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There are 90,000 of these
people, and you have not -- the agency has not brought
any action for these -- lo, these many years. Ninety
thousand of them. And all of a sudden, you say -- you
come in and say, oh, you have been in violation of the
law in the past, and you're going to have to pay a lot
of money for all these people that you didn't give
overtime to in the past.
I just think that's extraordinary.
MR. STEWART: Well, to the extent that there
was an industry expectation that was based on anything
DOL had said, it was based on, as far as we know, based
on the 1945 opinion letter, which said not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you -- you
didn't even know about that.
MR. STEWART: Right.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And yet, you expect
the industry to know all about it; and yet, it escaped
your attention.
MR. STEWART: Again, our argument is not
that they should have known from the -- about the
opinion letter. Our argument is that the proper
application of the promotion sales regulation to the
facts of this case is pretty clear, and that if GSK's
top-level management was asked to defend the use of
detailers, they would say these people are important
because if they persuade physicians to write more
prescriptions and those are filled with GSK products,
then pharmacies will reorder the drug and our
wholesalers will reorder it from us.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, can I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, you have been guilty of
malfeasance for 70 years, right? These 90,000 people
out there who have been in violation of the law and the
agency has done not a blessed thing?
MR. STEWART: To return to the 1945 opinion
letter, the opinion letter was based on the premise that
the employees exercised discretion and independent
judgment in the performance of their duties. That's
what the -- what DOL said in concluding --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I thought that
this whole system was set up on giving industries the
opportunity to ask the government for an opinion letter,
correct?
MR. STEWART: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I saw in the briefing
hundreds of opinion letters by hundreds of different
industries. Outside of this 1945 letter, did anybody
else, any other pharmaceutical company, ever set out for
the government or seek an opinion letter that you're
aware of?
MR. STEWART: I'm aware of only one
instance. I think this is not a matter of public
record, but there was one request in, I believe,
December of 2007 for an opinion to the effect that the
detailers were covered by the outside salesman
exemption. DOL never responded one way or the other.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't suggest -- you're
not arguing for a rule that if -- if an individual does
not seek an opinion letter, he's guilty? Is that --
MR. STEWART: No, I'm not arguing for that
rule. The --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Malcolm -- Mr.
Stewart, is it -- is it true that that option is no
longer available, that the Department of Labor no longer
gives opinion letters?
MR. STEWART: It does -- it has phased out
the opinion letter program and gives other forms of
administrative guidance. That is, DOL's rationale was
that the opinion letter program had not been cost
effective because often the bottom line -- may I --
often the bottom-line answer to the question would turn
on factual nuances of a particular employer and wouldn't
provide much guidance to others. And so, it's tried to
provide forms of guidance that are -- speak to the
industry or a class of employees as a whole.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Stewart.
Mr. Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Petitioners are two pharmaceutical sales
representatives. They were hired for a sales job. They
were given sales training. They attend sales
conferences. They are assigned a sales territory, and
they are evaluated and compensated as sales people.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And they don't make
sales.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's --
MR. CLEMENT: With respect --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your long list sort
of stopped one step short. They don't make sales.
MR. CLEMENT: With respect,
Mr. Chief Justice, we disagree. We think they do make
sales in the way that is relevant in this industry, and
we do think they make sales in some sense, which is the
practical construction that the agency has always put on
the sales requirement in the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you give me what
your regulation is going to be?
MR. CLEMENT: What's that?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And would it exempt
everybody from coverage? Meaning, you seem to be saying
if in some sense they make sales, it seems that every
promotional person will be a salesman, that all
industries have to do is put one or two forms of sales
activities involved in the work of their worker, and
they're exempt. Give me your definition? As long as
it's in some sense, that covers everybody's exempt?
MR. CLEMENT: Yes, but, Justice Sotomayor,
if I could, there's two important qualifications that
avoid the slippery slope concerns you're talking about.
One is it's, I think, common ground among everybody that
you -- to qualify for any exemption or certainly all of
these relevant exemptions here, it has to be your
primary duty. So, you can't just slip in a little sales
activity for something and get that person qualified.
The other thing, and I think this is very --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it seems like the
sale here is not the primary duty. The sale here is to
schmooze the doctor and give him information. That's
what you said in one of your briefs -- your company said
in one of its briefs in -- in a products liability
litigation.
MR. CLEMENT: With respect, Your Honor, the
commitment is very important in this industry. It is
the objective of the sales call. It's to get a
commitment to prescribe when medically necessary.
Now, it is true that there is prologue to
that, and there is efforts to promote before you get
that particular sale. But the regulations address that
particularly, and they say, as long as you --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Primary duty is one of
the limiting, and what was the second limiting
principle?
MR. CLEMENT: The second limiting principle
is actually what I'm talking about now, which is if you
look at 503, which are the regulations that draw the
distinction between promotion and between being outside
sales, they do not say that promotion is nonexempt
activity. What they say is it depends who does the
promotion. And as long as the outside salesperson does
the promotion in conjunction with his or her own sales
or solicitations, then that is exempt activity. And
what they're trying to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it also says -- it
also says promotional work incidental to sales made by
someone else.
MR. CLEMENT: Is not covered.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- is nonexempt.
MR. CLEMENT: You're right, but --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And these sales -- I
mean, eventually there is a sale to a hospital, to a
pharmacy, and that sale is not made by the detailer.
MR. CLEMENT: But, Justice Ginsburg, I think
it's important to recognize that the reason that 503
draws a distinction between promotional activity in
conjunction with the salesperson's own sales or
promotional activity with respect to somebody else's
sales is they're concerned about the consideration where
somebody else is going to follow up with the same
customer to close the deal.
And if you look at the regulatory
commentary, that's what they're concerned -- they don't
want to sort of have double counting, where somebody
promotes with a sales target and then somebody else
follows up to close the sale. And --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that might be one
thing that they are concerned about, but it may not be
the only thing. I mean, if you look at these
regulations, it seems as though what they're trying to
do is draw a distinction between people who actually
consummate transactions, transactional people, and
people who are pitchmen. And -- and what the Department
of Labor here is saying is detailers are people who make
pitches; they're not people who consummate the
transactions.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kagan, I really
think if you look at the regulations as a whole and the
commentary in the Stein Report and the Weiss Report,
they're not worried about sorting out the pitchmen
because they understand that that classic outside
salesperson is a pitchman who then tries to get a
commitment to buy or some other commitment from the
sales target.
So, what they're trying to do is really
distinguishing not between pitchmen and sales people,
but between what they refer to as missionary men or
people who pave the way for somebody else to make the
sale. And I really think that's the focus of the 503
regulation.
And so, the Government's argument really
boils down to the notion that there's nobody in this
industry that makes enough of a commitment with the
doctor for anybody to be involved in anything but
promotion with the doctor. And that seems --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But why isn't that possible?
I mean, your brief seemed to suggest that in every
industry there needs to be some group of people who
would be classified as outside salesmen. And that's not
necessarily the case. There may be some industries, and
here it's a result of regulation, or it may be because
of other business practices, where there just isn't
anybody who's an outside salesman.
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Kagan, it's
theoretically possible, but it would be odd, especially
in an industry that employs 90,000 people, in order to
get a commitment to prescribe from the doctor. And I
think if you look across --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What is -- what is this
commitment? Is the commitment in writing?
MR. CLEMENT: The commitment is generally
not in writing, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would it be lawful to make
it -- put it in writing?
MR. CLEMENT: I don't know that anything
would turn on whether it was in writing or not because
what --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would it be lawful to put
it in writing?
MR. CLEMENT: I -- I think the answer is
yes. It's important for the commitment not to be
binding because of the nature of the doctor's role.
Nobody wants to go into a doctor's office, let alone
these sales people, and say, look, whoever is the next
person who walks in the door, prescribe them the
product.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That sounds to me it's not
a commitment, unless the doctor says: Well, I'll look
at this, this is interesting; I'll go home and read your
material, I'll think about it.
Is that -- is that a --
MR. CLEMENT: That's not the kind of
commitment they're looking for, Justice Kennedy.
They're looking for a commitment that -- sometimes it's
the next patient that presents the condition for which
the medicine is medically appropriate, that they will
prescribe. And if you think just practically --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's got to be non-
binding.
MR. CLEMENT: It has to be non-binding. I
agree. But I don't think that the Government --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's why -- and
that's why it's not in writing.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, but you can have a
non-binding commitment in writing. You can have a
binding commitment that's oral, as long as it's -- you
know, I don't want to get into the statute of frauds
here. But it seems to me that the binding nature is not
dispositive either. You can have a situation -- look,
if I agree as -- that I'm going to buy something, I can
often return it. Sometimes there is a cooling-off
period, things like that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, let me ask you this,
and I'm not well versed in all -- in all of the
specifics, but my understanding is that the Federal
Government has expressed new concerns, has new
regulations, new rules about these outside sales.
Does that mean that the nature of the work
has changed in the last 5 or 10 years, so that the
70 years we are talking about is not relevant? Would
you comment on that?
MR. CLEMENT: I'd love to, Justice Kennedy.
I think, to the contrary, I think that -- I mean, the
Government actually ironically says that the 2004
rulemaking, which was the last time there was any
rulemaking, didn't change anything substantively. We
think that's wrong. We actually think there was an
important substantive change to the 503(c) regulations
and others which addressed the following problem, which
is not that the basic role of the outside salesperson
has changed, but the technology has changed in such a
way that it would be silly to draw a distinction between
whether the salesperson actually takes the order and
writes it down or gets a form in triplicate, or rather
gets a commitment to buy from the sales target who then
actually enters the order on a computer on their own.
And that I think is the specific situation
that the agency was confronted with. And in 2004 they
said: We don't want things to turn on who enters the
order, whether it's the customer on their own computer
or the outside salesperson.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Clement, I thought
that in 2004 there were two proposals, really, and one
was the proposal that was changed, and the other was the
proposal to get rid of this promotional stuff and to
allow people who promoted products to qualify as outside
salesmen, and the agency specifically rejected that
suggestion.
MR. CLEMENT: Absolutely, Justice Kagan, but
there has always been an effort to try to get all
promotional people treated as being exempt. But that's
different from what's being asked for here, which is the
last person who makes a visit to the person who places
the relevant order in the industry and gets the
commitment from that person. That, in contrast to
general promotion, often directed at the world at large,
has always been the hallmark of a sale in the
Department's own flexible approach. And I think that's
really important because if --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that seems to be
inconsistent with this -- this opinion letter. The
request is put in by the pharmaceutical company, and
they want an exemption under administrative employee.
In the Department of Labor's response allowing that
exemption, it says that these detailers, and they use
the word "detailers," medical detailers, are engaged in
a form of promotional or missionary work.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I -- I
want to say two things about that. One is to say,
obviously, that may depend a little bit on how the
particular role was described. If you're reading from
the 1945 opinion letter, I mean, that may be somewhat
different. But I do think that what's important here is
that promotional activity itself is not problematic.
Promotional activity is exempt as long as it's in
conjunction with the person's own sales or
solicitations, is the word of the regulation. So, I
don't think that's dispositive.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This goes -- the letter
goes on to say that these detailers are engaged in a
form of promotion not having for its object the making
of specific transactions.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, and again, Justice
Ginsburg, we would take issue with that and say, no,
there is an interest in getting a specific commitment.
It is commitment to prescribe. It may be somewhat -- it
is non-binding, and it may be somewhat forward-looking,
but I don't think that distinguishes this industry from
many industries. It's not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But as far as your
70 years, it's suspect for two reasons. One is we're
told that in the early years, at least, before there
were regulations restricting the sale of prescription
drugs, that these detailers did two things. They did
have their informational function, but they also did
direct sales to pharmaceutical companies, to hospitals.
So, for at least 20 years of those 70 years, these
people were engaged in what the department would call
sales. So, that's suspect.
And then when we have the commitment, the
opinion letter that says we have a category for these
people; they are engaged in instruction, in information;
they are not engaged in sales; but because they're so
independent, we rank them as administrative -- in the
particular case we rank them as administrative people.
So -- so, it's not so that there was a
sudden about-face as you suggest. We have a
categorization as -- as administrative employees, but
not sales employees, and we have a history of these
detailers at one time actually selling.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, let me
say -- I mean, certainly as the regulatory environment
has changed, the nature of how the sales are transacted
in this industry have changed, but I think the focus is
very much on the doctors appropriately because they're
the ones that place the order. But I also want to be
responsive to the administrative exemption.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You wouldn't -- you
wouldn't mind being exempt as administrative, would you?
MR. CLEMENT: I wouldn't, Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. CLEMENT: -- but I do want to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But they've changed their
-- their view.
MR. CLEMENT: They've changed their view on
that, too. And I certainly don't want this Court to
think that the industry somehow has the administrative
exemption as an ace up their sleeve or in their back
pocket. And it's really the same exact issue, because,
once again, the agency has changed their view. And once
again, their view is not based on anything that has to
do with label --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did you claim -- did you
claim exemption as administrative employee?
MR. CLEMENT: We did, Your Honor, in the
district court. It's not before this Court because we
got summary judgment in our favor on the outside sales
exemption.
But I really would think it would be a -- a
mistake for this Court to say --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, that would -- then
that would be still open if you lose on the outside
sales?
MR. CLEMENT: It would, Justice Ginsburg.
But you're just deferring the same inquiry, because the
Government's position once again is after 70 years of
having the industry proceed on the assumption that these
individuals were exempt, they now have changed their
mind. And, again, their view has everything to do with
FDA regulation --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Clement --
MR. CLEMENT: -- and nothing to do --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry.
MR. CLEMENT: -- and nothing to do with
labor policy, because what they say is that now because
of the government's own off-label prosecutions, these
outside salespeople have to stick to a script and -- in
order to avoid off-label liability. And because they
have to stick to the script, they are told they don't
exercise sufficient discretion to come within the
administrative exemption.
And the problem here is the Labor
Department, instead of looking at this and making a
rational judgment about labor policy and whether these
individuals who make $93,000 on -- for the median should
rationally be the kind of workers that are protected by
the Fair Labor Standards Act, instead they're looking at
things that have everything to do with FDA regulation
and nothing to do with labor policy.
JUSTICE KAGAN: You've suggested --
JUSTICE BREYER: The --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: Are they paid commissions?
If they're -- if the salesman or the promotion agent, as
the case may be, is successful in his territory in
getting doctors to prescribe the drug, does he receive
extra pay?
MR. CLEMENT: He receives incentive
compensation.
JUSTICE BREYER: What does that mean? Does
he -- I mean, an outside salesman -- in one document, it
says is a person who often obtains a commission on his
sales.
MR. CLEMENT: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And now what I'm trying to
figure out -- I might not have the right words to ask
the question -- are these people, people who in some
sense or other receive commissions on their sales?
MR. CLEMENT: And the answer is -- for the
Petitioners on this record, the answer is yes. They're
not the commissions that are a one-to-one
correspondence, but what they do is they receive
substantial incentive compensation, about 25 percent of
the total, and it's based on the sales of the product in
their sales territory. So, if the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How's that different
from a bonus that an employee gets? How is it any
different than what most companies do in -- in giving a
bonus at the end of the year?
MR. CLEMENT: Certainly, based on the facts
in this record, it -- at the time of this case, it's
much more tied to the performance of the product in the
sales territory. And I don't think that's -- you know,
it's not based on the company's overall performance --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Clement, you give me
one definition of "outside salesmen," the one that you
prefer for us to apply here. The Department of Labor
gives another, and the one they're giving according to
them is a bright-line rule. It's easy to apply. You
have to do some sort of transfer of title. That's as --
their rule.
Tell me what the -- your argument is that --
why your rule has to win. Meaning, aren't we supposed
to give deference to the expertise of the agency,
especially when Congress lets them define --
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Sotomayor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the scope of the --
MR. CLEMENT: -- two responses to that. One
is you can't defer to the Labor Department's preferred
construction, because it's flatly inconsistent with the
statute. This idea that you have to have a transfer of
title cannot be squared with 3(k); it cannot be squared,
at least as I understand it, with some of the -- the own
advice they've given, which is all you need is a
commitment to buy. That's what they've told people
since 1949.
There's an example in that Weiss Report from
1949 involving a jobber where you have a situation where
somebody's treated as an outside salesperson even though
they never have title over the product. So, they get
the commitment to buy from the sales target, and then a
jobber who works for a different employer is the one
that transfers title. That's at page 11 of the NFIB
brief, if you want to look at it. So --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Clement, I guess I'm not
sure I understand what you just said.
If -- forget the transfer of title business,
but if it's just -- we're requiring a transaction here.
And we're drawing a line between people who do
transactions and people who just advertise or make
pitches or whatever you want to do it. That's perfectly
consistent with the statute, isn't it? I mean, you can
argue about is it the only possible reading; you can
even argue about whether it's the best possible reading.
But it's surely a -- a possible reading.
MR. CLEMENT: It is a possible reading,
Justice Kagan. But it's not the one that the Labor
Department has advanced in their amicus brief. So, you
can't defer to that. I mean, you can decide that it's
the best reading of the statute if you want, but --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I suppose that that's
a question for them. I read their amicus briefs to sort
of suggest two things. Sometimes they just talk about
transactions, and sometimes they talk about transfer of
title.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, and with respect,
Justice Kagan, that's one of the many problems with
deferring to amicus briefs. Because when an agency
gives guidance in an interpretative rule or something,
there's one place, and they provide "the" answer. Now,
I don't know if the Government wants you to defer to the
-- defer to the argument on page 12 or the argument on
page 20 or the argument on page 24.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I think that they
would say that it doesn't make any difference, because
they've never really seen a person who makes
transactions without transferring title. So, I think
that --
MR. CLEMENT: Well, with respect, they
have --
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- they would think the --
the difference is --
MR. CLEMENT: No, with respect, they have
seen that person.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Consignment, for one, which
is legitimate business.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, consignment is in the
statute, but this jobber example is right out of the
Weiss Report in 1949, and the outside salesperson in
that case never had title. The title comes from the
jobber who works for somebody else. So, the salesperson
in that instance never had title, not even in the chain
of distribution. Yet, they say that is a clear case
where the person is an outside salesperson and exempt.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did -- did the
pharmaceutical companies request -- ever in this period,
request a ruling, a rulemaking on the status of these
PSRs?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I understand from the
Government that there was a request in 2007 and that the
Labor --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was an opinion
letter, they said. I thought they said that was an
opinion letter.
MR. CLEMENT: It was a request for an
opinion letter. I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. I asked if there
was a request from the pharmaceutical companies for a
rulemaking on the proper classification in this case.
MR. CLEMENT: No, there wasn't, Justice
Ginsburg, but I think that actually cuts in our favor,
because in 2004, a lot of companies were coming in with
things where they thought it was unclear, where they
thought there was some doubt, and asking for
clarification. This was so well understood that the
outside sales exemption, or perhaps the administrative
exemption, covered the outside sales force of this
industry --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's the case that I
cite if this opinion is written the way you -- you
propose, and the -- this Court says, well, this has been
70 years, or maybe in 10 years if you take the new
regulations as setting a new regime, and the Department
has never made an objection. And, therefore, it follows
that the Department's interpretation is implausible or
improper, and then I cite some case from our Court.
What -- how do I write this?
MR. CLEMENT: I would -- I would ask you not
to be bound by having to cite a case. I would ask you
to just use the following reasoning, though, which I
think is 100 percent -- and there's plenty of cases you
could cite as perhaps Cf. cites.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'd like one.
(Laughter.)
MR. CLEMENT: Sure. Well, here's -- let's
start -- let's start with Fox and just the basic notion
that in administrative law, if you're going to change
your position, you have to acknowledge that you're
making a change. I think at a minimum here, if they're
going to impose this kind of massive retroactive
liability on this industry --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Clement, this isn't
a change. You've referred to it as a change in a lot of
ways -- in a lot of times, but what we have here is an
agency that, for some number of years, thought that this
was not the most urgent problem on their plate. Indeed,
one would think this is a pretty peculiar Department of
Labor if they thought that this was the most urgent
problem on their plate. So, they didn't enforce it.
But now the question has come up. And so,
they say we'll look to our regulations. This falls on
one side of the regulation. Now, you've been given a
gift for all these years is one way of looking at it,
because -- because you were not their most urgent
problem; and so, they didn't enforce their own
regulations against you.
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Kagan, here's the
thing. We can quibble about whether or not there is a
change in their position or whether they just didn't
have a position before, but I think the important thing
is they've imposed, by taking this position in an amicus
brief and asking for deference to it, massive liability
on this industry. The PhRMA brief estimates it's
billions of dollars.
Now, I --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why must you -- why must
you look to an amicus brief? Why not just look to the
regulation that defines -- the regulations that define
"sale" and that define "promotion"? The 541.503 says
promotion work incidental to a sale made by somebody
else is not exempt.
Why do we get into the amicus brief when we
have in these 541 regulations a definition of sales on
the one hand, promotion on the other, and then this
statement that promotion work incidental to sale made by
somebody else is not exempt?
Why doesn't -- why isn't that the answer to
this case?
MR. CLEMENT: Here's the answer as to why
that's not the answer, and then let me circle back and
say why, if you're going to err on one side or the
other, you shouldn't err on the side of imposing massive
retroactive liability. The reason that that's not a
simple matter of deferring to that is because that same
regulation earlier says that promotional work is exempt
if it's in conjunction with the individual's own sales
or solicitations.
Now, I happen to think it's pretty clear
that these -- by getting this commitment, which is the
functional equivalent of a commitment to buy, which is
what the regulations and the regulatory interpretations
have always said is a sale in some sense, I think these
are sales. Certainly --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does the -- does the
pharmaceutical company have a sales force? I mean, who
sells to the wholesalers, the pharmacies, and the
hospitals?
MR. CLEMENT: It's not this kind of outside
sales force. It's a much less sales-oriented
transaction. The PhRMA amicus brief, for example, gives
the example of a company that has 2,000 outside sales
reps and 10 people that handle the movement of transfer
of product to the wholesalers and the distributors.
If you look at district court's opinion at
the page 42a of the petition appendix, the district
court addresses this issue and I think gets it exactly
right, which is the reason there isn't a sales effort
focused on the wholesalers and distributors is because
their job is to have on stock the kind of medicines that
physicians are prescribing.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there are -- there
are people who sell to them. There may be only a few,
but --
MR. CLEMENT: There's a handful of people,
Justice Ginsburg, but that's -- I mean, there's nothing
anomalous about that. Most industries have some sales
force that operates on the wholesale --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there -- are they
exempt, too?
MR. CLEMENT: What's that?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The -- the actual sellers
from the -- the people on the staff of a pharmaceutical
company who sell to the wholesalers, pharmacies, and
hospitals, are they exempt?
MR. CLEMENT: I don't believe so, Your
Honor, at least not under the outside sales exemption,
in part because they're not outside, in part because
they're not really engaged in a sales effort. It does
them no good -- if they can convince some wholesaler or
distributor that the GSK product is far superior to a
competitor's product and it doesn't make any difference
at all because as a result of that -- I mean, they need
to have product that actual doctors are writing
prescriptions for. That's what drives sales in this
industry.
There's nothing anomalous about that. If
you think about any industry, sales activity is always
directed at the people who place orders. In this
industry, because of the learned intermediary doctrine,
the person who places the order is the doctor, not the
ultimate end user.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there -- let's
say the doctor hears the spiel and the doctor says,
okay, yours is the first thing I'll think of, you know,
when I have a patient with this and this. I mean, is
that a sale?
MR. CLEMENT: We think it is, Your Honor,
but if you have any doubt about that, certainly at the
point that the doctor then, when he sees the next
patient, writes the prescription, at that point I think
there's a sale, because, again, what the regulations and
regulatory history looks for is a -- is a commitment to
buy. That's the relevant commitment to buy. That's the
order in this industry --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, what if the
doctor, as I suspect a lot of doctors do, they listen to
this guy, and they say, okay, I'll think of -- you know,
when it comes up, I'll think of your product; and the
next guy comes in from the other company, and he says,
okay, when it comes up I'll think of your product -- are
those two sales or no sale?
MR. CLEMENT: I think they're probably two
sales, Your Honor. But, you know, it's the same
thing -- imagine somebody who's, you know, just sitting
in their house, and they get an encyclopedia
salesperson. And they say, you know, I'll -- maybe I'll
buy that. That looks good, I'll buy it. And they say,
but you know, maybe the State law has a law that says
you've got to wait 24 hours before you put the order in,
in the computer.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's a firmer
commitment when they say I'll buy it. The physician is
just saying I'll think of your product when it -- when
the need comes up.
MR. CLEMENT: But -- well, if -- I mean,
what I was suggesting is maybe you're talking about a
State that has a 24-hour waiting rule or something like
that. So, it's a commitment that, sure, I'm going to
enter the order in 24 hours. Well, maybe another
encyclopedia salesmen comes in, in 12 hours, and he
gives another commitment. One of the two people he's
going to put the order in, and one of the two people
will certainly have finally had a sale. I think,
again --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But don't you think that the
way this works -- I mean, the way we should all hope it
works is that the detailer comes in, the detailer
provides information, the doctor says that's very
interesting, I want to think about it, I'm going to
think about it. Then the doctor reads some medical
journals; then maybe the doctor goes to a convention and
talks to other doctors about the product.
I mean, that's what you would hope that a
doctor would do before a doctor decided I'm going to
start prescribing this medicine. And the detail work is
a part of that, but so are many other things before the
doctor actually decides to do something.
MR. CLEMENT: Sure, Justice Kagan. But you
don't want to look at this like it's an isolated,
one-time, you know, sort of interaction. I mean, one of
the things that -- that happens in this industry, like
other sales industry, is there are multiple trips. The
detailer goes there maybe the first time and lays the
ground work. Then maybe the doctor reads some other
information. Then maybe on the final visit, after all
that information is there, finally the detailer gets the
commitment to prescribe to appropriate patients.
I think one way to think about the absurdity
of making the difference turn on the prescription is to
compare this salesperson to another salesperson of
medical devices who goes in, but these are medical
supplies that the doctor uses in the doctor's office.
Now, they're both hired for their sales experience.
They both get sales training. They both have a sales
territory. They're sitting in the same doctor's waiting
room, waiting for the same doctor; they have samples in
their bags, and they both get a commitment from the
doctor.
Now, what sense does it make as a matter of
the FLSA and its labor policies to say one of those
people is exempt and the other one is not exempt,
because for perfectly sensible reasons, we say that one
of those products is a prescription where the doctor
writes the order and then with that order, the end user,
the ultimate end user, can make the purchase at the
pharmacy, whereas the other one --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Clement, I wanted to
ask you about section 501 of the regulations, which --
which is on page 4 of the appendix in the blue brief,
and was mentioned in the -- in the Government's
presentation. It says -- requires that the employee be
engaged in (i) making sales within the meaning of 3(k);
or (ii) obtaining orders or contracts for services or
for the use of facilities.
What authorization is there for the agency
to invent number (ii)?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, you
heard the Government's explanation; and, as you suggest,
if the Government's explanation is right, then this
shouldn't be a matter of just trying to limit things to
3 -- to the 3(k) definition. I think, even though -- at
the 3(k) definition, though, if you look at that
definition, it has every hallmark of being broad and
functional and flexible.
I would want to make one very important
point, though, about the ultimate question here, because
ultimately the decision whether to go one way or another
on this issue has remarkable significance for
retroactive imposition of liability.
We all know that retroactive rulemaking is
disfavored. Well, think about the consequences here.
You have massive liability, between 4 and 6 years of
effective time and a half, because of the way that the
statute works. It has time and a half plus liquidated
damages. You are talking about people who are very well
paid, close to six figures. So, unlike the classic
worker who you might think is covered by the FLSA, who
is a relatively low hourly worker, the amounts of
damages here are quite significant.
Of course, the effort to try to reconstruct
these people's hours, given that they were told they
were exempt and they were outside the office, trying to
reconstruct how many overtime hours they actually worked
is going to be a crapshoot at best. So, if you think
about all of that, and then you think about, as
Justice Breyer indicated, the other option, which is
to --
JUSTICE BREYER: Let's pursue this for a
second.
MR. CLEMENT: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because I'd like to go back
to Justice Kennedy's question, and this is only me
speaking. I don't know how anybody else feels. If this
had come up in 1941, you wouldn't have had a chance. I
would have said look at the statute; it says the
Secretary defines it. You'd say, well, can you define
it in a brief? Yes, you have to be careful of briefs,
but, yes. And that's the end of the case. It's not a
question for judges; it's a question for administrators.
All right. But now it's difficult for me
because of the passage of 75 years. And we can blame it
in part on the industry or in part on the Secretary.
There is blame to go around. So, the question is, what
do I do as a judge?
And partly my instinct is get somebody to
decide this other than a lawyer in the Department of
Labor, because this is a hard question. And that's
where we come to Justice Kennedy's question, which is he
says all right, fine, let's write that, and -- and what
case do we cite?
And I don't agree with you, overturn Auer.
I think amicus briefs are often helpful, but use them
with care. And then I have the statute here, which
talks about the Secretary doing the definition of
"outside salesman," and I have lots of rules and
regulations and reports, which are fairly ambiguous in
my opinion. So, you tell me what to say.
MR. CLEMENT: I -- may I answer?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Certainly.
MR. CLEMENT: I would start by citing -- I
know it's not always in fashion to cite lower court
opinions, but I'd start by citing Judge Posner's opinion
in Yi, because the Seventh Circuit -- they're a very
distinguished panel, Judge Posner, Judge Wood, and one
other judge. The three of them considered this
question -- Judge Sykes. I'm sorry; it slipped my mind.
A very distinguished judge.
(Laughter.)
MR. CLEMENT: The -- it's -- the point being
that he said along these lines that the 70 years of
history makes a significant difference. And here's the
thing. Just like you expect an agency to confront a
change in position, you'd at least expect an agency to
confront the retroactive consequences and in that sense
address them and make sense of it.
And I would just simply say this, which is
if you had a rulemaking, you could bring in all of the
affected parties, including the current sales
representatives, who are not the ones bringing these
lawsuits, whose jobs are going to be changed, and you
could make a comprehensive view, as opposed to just
getting one side of an ongoing litigation and then
making a decision about an amicus brief.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you. I'll look at
it.
CHIEF JUSTICE BREYER: Mr. Goldstein, 3
minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice.
Three quick points. First, if you read the
transcript, you will see that my friend says that the
nature of this job has changed. And that is an
essential part of understanding this case. And there is
an entire amicus brief in addition to our submission on
behalf of pharmaceutical representatives, which explains
how very much the requirements of pharmaceutical
detailers and the restrictions on them have changed
dramatically over the last couple of decades in
particular. And that's why the continued references to
70 years are wrong.
The other important point about the FLSA in
particular is that there is a statute on this issue, and
it says that an employer can request guidance from the
agency; and if it doesn't do that, it is not -- it has
no defense. Its job is to ask for guidance. And there
are 50 different exemptions from the FLSA that cover
hundreds of different categories of employees. And if
the rule you are going to announce -- because Mr.
Clement's view is you shouldn't be bound by any
precedent. If the rule you are going to now announce is
that there has to be rulemaking with respect to all of
those, it's going to be an administrative nightmare.
Two quick further points. The Department of
Labor's position is that there has to be an actual
commitment, not a precatory commitment. And Mr. Clement
says, well, that's contrary to the definition of "sale"
in 3(k). Please read the definition again, and if you
find something in there, something that is not a
commitment -- it can be an exchange; it can be a
commitment that is even a consignment; it can be a
traditional sale. Every one of those things is
commitment. It is impossible to find in the definition
of "commitment" a rule that says -- excuse me, in the
definition of "sale" --
JUSTICE ALITO: Where do they say that
that's -- that that's their test? Where does the
Department of Labor say that's their test, that it has
to be a commitment? I thought what they said in their
brief was there has to be a transfer of title.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: There are two different
parts to it. One is that they -- as explained by Mr.
Stewart, their view of transfer of title, but the Weiss
Report says repeatedly that there has to be a commitment
to buy. That is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, which is it? I mean,
you say, yes, yes, it's both.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: You have to agree --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Pick one.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: You have to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it the transfer of title
or a commitment?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It is the agreement to
transfer title. There are two parts to it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ah. Okay.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: But there has to be the
agreement, a firm agreement. It's repeated in the 2004
preamble to the regulations as well.
Now, the last critical point I want to make
is that Mr. Clement says there are commissions on sales
in the sales territory. And what he is not talking
about is any commitment by a physician. When you go
look at the transcript and he talks about sales in the
sales territory, he is talking about the sales by the
pharmacy. That's where the sale occurs in this
industry. It's to the wholesaler and to the pharmacy
and to the customer.
He is not talking about a sale in the sense
of getting a commitment to have --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the district court
here made a finding -- this is at 42a of the appendix
for the Petitioners: "Sales volume is directly and
exclusively driven by the number of prescriptions
written by physicians, and plaintiffs' job was to
encourage such prescriptions."
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That -- Mr. Justice Kennedy,
I don't believe that you can fairly describe that as a
finding of fact. That is the judge -- his view of the
summary judgment record. It is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a finding of logic,
for Pete's sake. These are prescriptions. You can only
get a prescription from a doctor. Obviously, the number
of prescriptions, drugs sold, depends upon the number of
prescriptions given by doctors.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Two -- two things about
that. First is that a detailer doesn't get a commitment
to a prescription. And then in addition, it's clear
that there are numerous influences on what a doctor
does. There's all the advertising --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a different point.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It is an important point.
It is a different point, but it is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not the point you were
making.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia, the point
that I will make at bottom is that you have to have a
firm commitment. That's what the Department says. And
there is nothing in the definition in 3(k) that
contradicts that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:06 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
66:8 advanced 47:4 16:2 24:5,14 areas 11:13 42:9 52:1
39:5 advertising 26:10,11 47:4 46:24,25 bags 57:13
agency 19:6,10 62:9 argument 1:13 42:12 44:25
26:2 27:3,5,14 analogies 11:13 20:2 28:8,10 beautifully
12:5 42:11 45:20 anomalous 47:19 62:1 behalf 1:16,19
43:23 47:14 50:16 53:12 54:7 arisen 18:12,14 1:22 2:4,7,11
agency's 26:6 25:18 30:10 arrangement believe 5:16
22:2 ago 22:16,17 47:16 51:23,25 asked 24:18 21:2 29:17
agree 6:10 20:19 52:1 60:19 27:7 28:13 53:21 65:6
33:6,9,22 60:12 64:2 anybody 29:11 asking 25:1 best 46:25 47:6
40:5,6 agreement 5:15 35:10,19 59:19 49:10 51:8 59:10
5:20 6:10,15 anyway 7:4 20:1 assigned 30:25 beyond 9:5 19:4
54:4 64:7,11,11 5:24 6:7,22 attempted 16:9 billions 51:10
agrees 3:21,23 8:20 attend 30:24 binding 7:13
Ah 64:9 APPEARAN... attributes 20:7 37:5,12,14
Alito 4:16 5:6,9 appendix 4:6 authorization blessed 28:23
Alito's 16:12 application 27:6 autonomously boils 35:8
23:13 allowing 39:20 appreciate 5:7 11:21 bottom 30:9
30:7 alternative approach 39:14 available 30:3 65:25
41:10,11 26:16,18 27:1 appropriate avoid 32:2 43:14 bottom-line
27:2 13:8,16 21:15 aware 29:14,15 30:10
43:17 ambiguous 37:2 57:3 a.m 1:14 3:2 bound 49:25
C 1:16 2:1,3,13 22:12 36:2,6,11,23 commitment
call 32:17 41:4 10:11 38:23 39:5,24 7:13,13,16
26:18 calls 16:15 Chief 3:3,9 9:15 40:14 41:17 12:24 13:3,4,6
27:1 candid 24:7 15:24 16:4 42:1,3,6,16,25 13:6,7,9,11,15
44:2,4,11 capricious 19:6 25:17,23 28:1 43:7,8,10 44:9 13:18,19 14:10
59:12,14 care 15:17 60:14 28:5 30:15,20 44:15,20 45:6 14:12 32:16,18
61:22,24 careful 59:23 31:2,6,9 54:13 45:11,22,24 34:24,24 35:9
17:18 case 3:4 5:2 7:10 61:21,24 62:4 47:25 48:4,8 36:12,19,24,25
25:11,12 7:20 11:12 66:4 48:20 49:1,6 37:11,12 38:16
26:11 16:6,10 27:7 Christopher 1:3 49:24 50:6,13 39:11 40:16,17
46:15 28:12 35:16 3:4 51:3,25 52:19 41:6 46:6,12
51:8,9,13 41:11 44:6 circle 52:1 53:10,16,21 52:10,11 54:23
52:21 45:7 48:11,14 Circuit 16:13,13 54:18 55:8,21 54:24 55:18,24
59:23 49:5,15,22,25 25:11,12,13 56:19 57:23 56:2 57:3,13
62:9 51:24 59:24 60:24 58:8 59:16 63:5,5,9,10,12
60:11 62:8 circumstance 60:19,21 61:5 63:13,18,23
26:3,10 categories 8:12 50:3 60:11,22 clerks 12:17,17 commitments
47:8 15:1,3 62:22 cites 50:3 12:20 27:10,11
59:23 categorization citing 60:21,23 clock 7:22 common 16:6
41:14 claim 42:14,15 clocks 8:13 32:3
41:7 49:11 34:7 59:2 companies 41:2
35:18 45:6 52:14 49:5 comes 48:11 21:15,22,24
48:7 54:19 56:4 classifications 55:4,5,6,20 27:11 29:12
21:25 chain 21:7,25 cleaning 11:2 comment 23:7 55:5
37:16 48:13 15:2 38:2 company's
46:6,12 chance 59:20 clear 5:21 23:25 commentary 45:10
54:24,24 change 38:7,9 27:7 28:12 34:4,20 compare 57:6
50:8,10,14,14 48:14 52:9 commerce 14:7 comparison
51:5 61:9 65:16 14:9 26:15
20:9 38:12,12,25 2:10 30:17,18 22:6 44:13 31:1
42:6,11 43:4 31:16,25 32:15 15:3,7,8,10 22:14 44:10,24
62:7,12 33:1,14,16,20 22:4,8,13 44:4 competitor's
construed 19:16 court 1:1,13 December 29:18 described 40:2
55:16 consummate 17:18 25:14 60:7 56:16
20:16 49:17,22 53:2 56:18 19:20 20:10
21:5 courts 17:14 58:18 61:19 33:19 56:8,8
6:19 62:21 47:17,18 11:22 19:11
18:1 covered 11:9 deferring 43:1 23:16 24:18
11:20 18:15,17 19:2 29:19 33:14 define 3:12 29:19 34:15
15:9 19:18 58:4 49:13 59:3 45:21 51:14,15 39:21,22,22
45:21 contradicts 4:12 covers 31:24 59:22 40:11,25 41:16
40:7 contrary 38:4 created 6:8 59:22 detailing 7:15
63:6 criteria 16:10 defining 7:7 determine 23:8
61:10 convention 14:21 64:13 5:22,24 31:23 dictated 9:19
conventions 16:2 58:12,13,14 14:5,21 19:19
21:3 conversation customarily 63:12,14 66:2 54:2 57:5 61:7
3:18 20:6 delimit 3:13 different 6:2
61:1 cooling-off 38:21 64:21 1:19 25:8,15 20:2,2 24:6,6
5:1,12 CORPORATI... cuts 49:7 39:20 41:4 40:4 45:2,4
6:11 7:6 1:6 43:19 45:13 46:13 62:21,22
17:7 correct 29:7 D 47:4 49:19 63:20 65:19,21
63:10 correspondence D 1:22 2:10 3:1 50:18 60:7 difficult 60:1
cost 30:8 damages 59:1,5 Department's direct 13:15
46:23 61:21 66:4,5 DBA 1:7 depend 40:1 39:12 54:9
country 26:3 deals 20:10 26:20 directly 4:2
doing 10:8 24:3 29:18 engages 3:22 exchanging 14:3
17:16 21:20 effort 39:6 53:3 enter 55:25 17:6 18:3
40:9 29:3,20 either 3:17 9:24 11:14,23 12:1
23:17 30:7 elaborated 3:17 41:18 31:24 33:9
34:12 door 36:16 elderly 15:18 equivalent 39:7 40:6
double 34:5 else's 33:24 52:11 41:25 43:4
61:3 54:19 8:21 10:19 err 52:2,3 52:6 53:15,20
62:13 employ 27:9 especially 35:21 exemption 3:13
33:3 34:12 10:8 15:1 16:7 ESQ 1:16,18,22 15:9 20:1,23
drawing 46:20 39:19 42:15 essential 20:7,16 32:4 39:19,21
53:4 15:14 33:22 22:3,5 24:24 estimates 51:9 49:12,13 53:22
53:1 driven 65:2 30:14 41:14,15 evaluated 31:1 32:5 62:21
driver 8:24 62:22 evenly 22:23 exercise 43:16
drug 13:7,21 4:15 7:14 21:7,25 expect 28:5 61:8
44:7 46:13 62:18 everybody expectation
32:11 drugs 3:22 4:2 employment 31:18 32:3 24:10 27:23
21:2 40:25 10:8 everybody's expected 9:11
54:11,14 65:12 employs 35:22 31:24 experience
55:2 duties 29:2 encountered exact 42:10 12:18 57:9
duty 9:3,4,6,9 17:2 exactly 22:21 expertise 45:20
10:9 32:6,10 encourage 65:4 53:2 explain 7:2
32:23 encyclopedia example 8:10,16 explained 18:20
D.C 1:9,16,19 55:11 56:1 10:25 11:23,25 63:21
51:1 46:8 48:9 62:10
44:7 E enforcement 52:21,22 explanation
55:2 E 2:1 3:1,1 26:16 27:2 examples 10:17 58:9,10
65:13 earlier 52:6 engage 21:6 10:20 expressed 37:22
57:8,11 easy 45:15 18:24 39:22 3:25 4:9,15 5:4 extent 15:13
27:21 fine 12:5 15:14 58:15 23:24 25:3 12:11 16:20
19:18 first 14:12 20:24 23:9 56:12,24 57:7 ground 16:6
54:15 56:24 going 7:12 10:9 32:3 56:25
65:7 fit 11:16 16:10 G 3:1 23:4 26:10 GSK 28:16 54:1
flexible 39:14 general 1:18 34:1 37:16 28:12
12:4 57:16 59:3 getting 21:13 56:15 59:10 46:16
24:7 62:16,21 40:16 44:7 61:16 62:23,25 guidance 3:16
focus 27:3 35:5 52:10 61:18 63:2 14:1 30:7,12
54:1 50:1 11:19 14:25 8:3,14,20,23
37:21 forget 46:18 48:16,23 49:3 61:24 62:1,3 hand 24:23
39:23 40:12 52:15 53:7,11 64:10 65:5,14 handful 53:10
Fox 50:7 50:23 59:7 12:12 hard 60:8
23:21 freight 18:17 GLAXOSMI... 37:22 38:5 hey 26:12
friend 62:6 1:7 47:17 48:21 he'll 20:17
54:23 incentive 44:9 32:11 41:8 J 37:4,8,19 38:3
44:24 56:9 57:1,2 job 9:21 30:23 38:23 39:5,16
53:22 included 17:2 informed 23:13 jobber 46:9,13 42:1,2,4,14,22
55:9 19:11 input 25:4 48:9,12 42:25 43:7,9
53:20 including 61:14 instinct 60:6 judge 60:5,23,25 47:3,7,13,20
10:9,23 increase 21:23 insurance 11:1 judgment 29:2 52:15 53:7,11
56:1 incredibly 12:5 interaction 42:18 43:20 53:14,17 54:13
independent 19:20,21 56:21 65:8 55:1,17 56:6
62:22 indicates 24:5 intermediary 6:15,18 7:3,17 60:20 61:21,22
individual 25:15 internally 25:6,7 9:8,11,15,20 63:15,25 64:3
interpret 10:6 10:2,16,19,22 64:5,9,24 65:5
industry 14:14 interrupt 25:18 20:12 21:10 34:8,18 35:12
32:1,16 21:11,12 22:25 involve 7:14 22:22 23:19,21 39:5 43:7,9
36:12 24:10 27:23 involved 31:22 23:24 24:2,4 44:1,3 46:16
39:15 28:6 30:14 35:10 24:22 25:17,23 47:3,7,13,20
51:6 31:10 32:16 involving 46:9 26:1,8,14,18 48:2 50:13
62:16 35:9,14,22 ironically 38:5 26:23 27:1,13 51:3 56:6,19
39:10 40:19 isolated 56:20 28:1,5,19,20 Kennedy 11:4,6
37:8 23:13 26:7,12 61:18 massive 50:11 money 27:19
38:3 27:18 28:22 little 21:10 32:651:8 52:3 morning 3:4
50:4 50:8 55:14,14 40:1 58:23 motion 21:7,25
65:5 lawful 36:4,9 lo 27:15 material 36:21 movement
60:9 lawyer 60:7 long 22:16 31:6 matter 1:12 4:3 movie 15:15
43:22 leads 21:25 33:7 37:12 29:16 52:5
52:19 learned 54:10 40:6 57:15 58:11 N
leave 17:1 longer 30:3,3 66:8 N 2:1,1 3:1
20:21 legitimate 48:7 34:3,10,19 34:10 35:13 nature 36:13
26:21 lesser 5:3 35:24 36:15,1937:24 38:4 37:14,24 41:19
28:2,6 letter 24:15,17 37:15 46:15 40:3 41:18 62:7
37:13 27:25 28:10,25 50:22 51:13,1344:11,12 46:23 nearly 24:7
47:17 28:25 29:6,11 52:25 56:20 47:5 52:16 necessarily
55:3,9 29:13,23 30:6 58:13 59:21 53:11 54:3,16
23:13
39:17 61:22 64:17 55:21 56:7,14 27:2 35:16
58:21 40:3,10 41:7 looking 36:24,25 56:21 63:25 necessary 32:18
60:22 48:24,25 49:2 43:19,23 50:24
55:13 18:19 31:18 needs 35:14
12:4 liability 32:13 lots 8:16,25 56:11 57:7,7
47:22
26:19
50:12 60:16 medically 21:14 48:11,13 49:20
34:15 51:8 52:4 love 38:3 32:18 37:2
low 59:4 medicine 37:2 49:18,19
45:13,25 life 12:17 lower 17:13 56:16 newspaper
48:22 limit 58:11 60:22 medicines 53:5 15:16
57:16 limitation 7:18 men 35:3 newspapers
63:17 limited 7:9 M mentioned 58:1 18:16
32:24 33:1 making 16:24 MICHAEL 1:3 nightmare 63:2
12:10 14:6,9 43:19 50:10 61:2 Ninth 16:13
12:19 15:14 61:6 Malcolm 1:18 minutes 61:25 nonexempt 3:17
28:4 liquidated 58:25 2:6 16:1 30:1 mission 21:6 33:5,15
61:4 list 31:6 malfeasance missionary 35:3 non-binding
12:17,17 literally 8:9 management mistake 42:21 normal 25:23
13:4 litigation 32:14 27:8 28:13 Monday 1:10 notice 23:6
50:16 28:10,24,25 overturn 60:12 34:12,13,14,15 14:16 21:3
65:2,11 29:6,10,13,18 34:16 35:2,4 28:17 52:17
29:23 30:4,6,8 P 35:14,22 36:15 53:19
48:23,25 page 2:2 4:6,8 41:11 44:18,18 33:19 57:22
opposed 61:17 panel 60:25 people's 59:7 physician 19:20
58:4 oral 1:12 2:2,5,9 14:1 20:16,20 perfectly 46:22 27:10,12 28:15
order 12:25 16:7 62:8 29:2 45:8,10 pitches 34:16
38:21 39:10 particular 30:11 period 37:18 pitchman 34:23
55:25 56:3 particularly 12:25 15:11 place 41:22
36:14 54:9 58:4 partly 60:6 39:9,9,11 54:11
59:8 ought 24:8 parts 63:21 64:8 44:13 47:22 plaintiffs 65:3
11:2,23,25 patients 13:8 pertinent 17:19 please 3:10 16:5
15:20 16:7 PAUL 1:22 2:10 petition 53:1 plenty 50:2
54:15 24:20 29:11,19 pave 35:4 1:17,21 2:4,8 pocket 42:10
64:9 33:4,7 34:22 pay 27:18 44:8 2:14 3:8 16:3 point 14:21
43:2 38:11,22 39:2 15:21 50:18 62:2 65:1 23:7 24:11,11
49:12,13 52:19 9:8 10:22 11:1 14:14,15,20 65:21,22,24
65:16 promoting 3:15 55:15 56:3 real 21:12
65:13 33:4,5,7,8 qualifications 38:24 39:15
16:20 presentation 40:12 44:5 qualified 32:7 53:24
19:16 58:2 51:15,16,20,21 qualify 17:14,17 reason 33:21
50:9 51:5 presents 37:1 promotional 32:4 39:2 52:4 53:3
61:9 presto 26:12 21:19,22,23 quasi-commit... reasoning 50:1
pretty 22:23 22:7 23:18 27:11 reasons 40:22
46:24,25 principle 32:25 property 4:20 50:21 58:17 44:23
33:1 4:23 6:11 59:18,25,25 receives 44:9
50:17,20 51:1 propose 49:17 quietly 24:5 59:9
proceed 43:3 provide 30:12 3:12 19:17 35:3
28:25 46:11 52:24 PSRs 16:10 rail 18:17 regard 21:9
35:23 55:19 56:13 public 29:16 rational 43:20 20:6 22:1 27:5
37:3 products 14:14 purchase 13:24 rationale 11:10 regime 49:19
44:7 28:16 32:13 13:25 16:15 30:7 regular 9:5 26:2
39:2 57:19 57:21 rationally 43:22 regulation 3:14
53:6 30:6,8 purposes 4:18 read 23:19,21 17:19 20:13,19
prologue 32:19 14:22 20:22,23 23:24 36:20 24:4,4 28:11
7:16 promote 32:20 pursuits 11:9 reading 40:2 40:8 43:6,24
14:2 promoted 39:2 put 9:5 18:4 46:24,25 47:1 50:23 51:14
54:21 promoter 13:12 31:12,21 36:5 47:2,6 52:6
27:6 49:1,4 62:18 58:10 60:1,10 sales 3:15,16 salesperson 33:7
33:3 requirement rigid 16:16 15:11,22 16:8 34:23 38:11,14
37:23 31:13 ROBERTS 3:3 17:17,20,22 38:22 46:10
40:24 requirements 9:15 15:24 18:22,23,23 48:10,12,15
50:22 62:11 25:17,23 28:1 19:2,17,17 55:12 57:6,6
requires 7:11 28:5 30:15 20:5,5,6,7 21:1 salesperson's
54:22 17:21 58:2 31:2,6 54:13 21:2,5,6,8,15 33:23
60:17 requiring 46:19 55:1,17 60:20 21:23 27:6 sales-oriented
reserve 15:23 61:21 66:4 28:11 30:22,23 52:20
52:12 24:9 31:5,8 38:11 40:2 31:1,3,7,10,11 satisfied 24:24
32:15 33:24 room 57:12 31:13,19,21 saw 29:9
10:9 responded 45:19 47:15 34:6,25 35:2 25:1 31:18
29:20 55:23 62:23,25 36:15 37:23 34:15 55:19
32:5 11:12 12:12 26:9 38:6,7 42:18,24 44:14 20:14 33:11,12
39:10 16:9 30:19 48:18 49:5 44:19,25 45:1 36:19 38:5
Respondent's 58:21 61:13 45:9 46:12 39:21 41:7
response 39:20 rules 23:8 37:23 52:7,14,16,20 51:15 52:6
responsive ruling 24:20 53:22,24 54:5 56:9 58:2
14:13 restricted 10:7 run 26:3 56:23 57:9,10 62:6,18 63:6
restricting 57:10 58:3 63:13,23 64:14
62:12 sake 65:10 65:1 8:18,21 9:2,8
retroactive 5:1,12,13,22 10:12 14:8 15:13 17:6
20:4 58:20,21 61:10 13:1,2,12 14:8 29:19 31:20 19:23 22:15,22
34:20,20 return 20:9 21:3 14:19 16:13,18 35:19 44:5,12 26:1,8,14
48:10 28:24 37:17 16:23,24 17:3 60:16 27:13 28:20
reverse 23:4,5 17:9 20:16,22 salesmen 11:15 29:21 41:24
61:15 right 7:5 9:10,24 35:5 39:13 19:1,8 22:12 63:25 64:3,5,9
23:6 24:22 40:24 51:15,16 24:21 35:15 65:9,19,22,24
39:18 33:16 44:15,17 56:4 63:6,11 salespeople script 43:13,15
14:1 SG 25:21 43:9 44:3 49:2 22:11 34:20 35:13 41:13
20:20 SHANE 1:3 61:2 step 26:16,18 47:9 58:9
32:24 shipment 4:10 sort 16:14 22:21 31:7 suggested 16:13
59:15 short 31:7 31:6 34:5 Stewart 1:18 2:6 44:1
4:13 50:23 52:2,3 56:21 16:21 17:8,16 12:10 55:22
59:22 61:18 sorting 34:21 18:6,10 19:12 suggestion 39:4
significance sorts 18:24 19:15 20:3,12 summary 42:18
significant 14:5 16:11 28:19 22:5,9,18 superior 54:1
20:14 61:7 31:17,25 32:9 25:7,21,25 supplement
silly 12:7 38:13 32:23 45:2,11 26:5,13,15,21 12:17 18:5
57:11 sparse 12:17 30:5,16 63:22 supplies 57:8
7:18
46:9 specific 17:8 stopped 10:17 suppose 47:7
12:22 six 59:2 23:16 38:18 31:7 supposed 9:18
18:15 sleeve 42:9 40:13,16 store 12:24 45:19
53:8
slipped 61:2 specifics 37:21 straightforward sure 6:7 8:14
18:25
Standards 3:11 strikes 7:20 55:24 56:19
22:2 SmithKline 1:6 11:5,10,24 stuff 39:1 59:16
3:4 12:5 43:23 submission 62:9 surely 47:1
52:17 solicitations 50:7 56:16 66:8 41:5 55:2
52:13 25:14 statement 51:21 substantially
61:10,11 Solicitor's 25:8 States 1:1,13,20 8:6 T
25:10,13 2:7 16:2 substantive 38:9 T 2:1,1
15:2 34:1,5,6 35:4 7:10 18:19 successful 21:16 taken 18:21
19:17 55:10 60:6 47:6 48:9 sudden 27:16 takes 38:14
somebody's 58:25 59:21 41:13 talk 47:9,10
somewhat 40:3 statute's 3:13 25:3 talking 11:20
33:2 38:1 22:9 23:2 47:11,23 48:11 true 10:10 11:21 unsupervised
59:1 27:21 29:16 48:11,13 63:19 15:20 21:6 11:11
32:3,8 63:22 64:5,8 30:2 32:19 urgent 50:17,19
64:17 35:5,24 36:11 43:15 46:6 39:6 59:6 use 17:24 18:1
46:12 38:4,4,8,8,18 top-level 28:13 13:14 15:12 39:21 50:1
40:19 41:20 tout 3:22 35:1 44:16 user 54:12 57:20
47:20,23 48:2 63:11 turn 30:10 36:7 uses 57:8
45:1,9 55:3,4,6,8,19 41:19 30:22 31:21 value 27:10,12
64:15,18 56:4,6,10,11 transaction 32:1 38:24 verb 16:25
59:3,10 52:21 45:24 47:9 view 17:25 23:8
61:20,21 third-highest-... 34:13 63:3,20 64:8 42:11,12 43:5
62:3 25:15 transactions 65:14,14 61:17 62:24
THOMAS 1:16 34:13,17 40:13 two-part 20:18 63:22 65:7
48:24 49:9,10 transfer 4:22,25 ultimate 54:12 57:1
thousand 27:16 5:20,21,23 ultimately 58:18
22:14 tied 45:8 17:4,10,11 12:13,14 25:9
28:23 time 9:3,13,25 21:2 45:16 unclear 49:9 wages 9:5
34:9,10 9:25 12:22 46:2,18 47:10 understand 5:6 wait 55:15
54:15 15:23 18:15,16 52:23 63:19,22 6:1,2 8:19 waiting 55:23
61:8 19:21 20:5 64:5,8 20:21 34:22 57:11,12
14:11 41:16 45:7 47:23 understanding 36:16
23:15 56:24 58:24,25 transfers 4:20 26:6 37:21 want 7:1 34:5
38:20 times 50:15 46:14 62:8 37:13 38:20
40:25 title 4:20,22,25 treated 19:2 understood 39:19,25 41:22
47:9 5:2,3,14,16,18 39:7 46:10 49:11 42:3,7 46:15
56:17,22 5:20,21,23 tried 30:12 uniform 22:10 46:22 47:6
63:11 6:10,16 7:9 tries 34:23 United 1:1,13,20 56:10,20 58:16
16:17,19,25 triplicate 38:15 2:7 16:2 64:13
21:18 46:3,11,14,18 truck 18:18 19:14 57:23
47:17 10:20 21:22 young 15:18 58:3,12,13
workers 7:21 $ 3(x) 16:18
20:22,22 43:22 1 4
22:10 working 8:15 1 4:6 4 17:19 57:25
29:20 workplace 7:23 10 37:25 49:18 58:23
35:4 8:6 52:23 42a 53:1 64:25
49:16 works 21:11,12 10:03 1:14 3:2
56:7,7 46:13 48:12 100 50:2 5
58:18,24 56:7,8 58:25 11 46:14 5 37:25
48:10 20:25 21:9 16 1:10 2:8 501 57:24
27:9 30:11 19 16:22 503 33:3,21 35:5
46:19,20 49:23 60:10 1945 24:16 541.503 51:15
40:3 6
16:22 46:7 6 58:23
48:10 62 2:14
64:20 36:7,10 37:9
21:3 written 49:16 70 24:3 28:21
18:4 19:9
52:17,24 65:3 38:1 40:22
52:22
wrong 38:8 41:3 43:2
41:3 47:19
38:5,19,24
64:11
1:10
8
9:13 15:15
27:15 24-hour 55:23 9
20:15,21
37:25 25 44:24
22:4,5,7 90,000 27:13
23:18 38:1 40:22,23 28:21 35:22
43:2 3
33:12 3 2:4 58:12
39:23 49:18,18 50:16
58:23 61:24
52:6 3(k) 16:18,24
60:2 61:6
17:23 18:4,4,5
