IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
MATCH-E-BE-NASH-SHE-WISH BAND OF :
POTTAWATOMI INDIANS, :
Petitioner : No. 11-246
v. :
DAVID PATCHAK, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
and
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
KEN L. SALAZAR, SECRETARY OF THE :
INTERIOR, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 11-247
v. :
DAVID PATCHAK, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 24, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
Petitioners in No. 11-247.
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
Petitioner in No. 11-246.
MATTHEW T. NELSON, ESQ., Grand Rapids, Michigan; on
behalf of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners in No. 11-247 4
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner in No. 11-246 19
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MATTHEW T. NELSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners in No. 11-247 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning in Case 11-246, Match-E-Be-Nash-She-Wish
Band of Pottawatomi Indians v. Patchak.
Mr. Miller.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS IN NO. 11-247
MR. MILLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The suit in this case suffers from two
independent jurisdictional defects, either one of which
provides a basis for reversing the judgment of the court
of appeals.
The first is that the United States has not
waived its sovereign immunity from suits challenging its
title to Indian trust lands. And the second is that
Patchak, the plaintiff, lacks prudential standing
because the interests that he seeks to vindicate in the
suit are not within the zone of interests protected or
regulated by section 5 of the Indian Reorganization Act,
the provision whose alleged violation forms the basis
for his complaint.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me who you
think would have a valid and timely APA action to
challenge what the Secretary has allegedly done here,
which is to take lands into trust in violation of the
statute per our earlier -- I know that the U.S. is
challenging that assumption, but let's assume the -- the
reality of the allegation. Who would -- who would be
able to challenge it, and in what mechanism?
MR. MILLER: There are -- there are two parts
to that. And taking the timing question first, the
claim would have to be brought before the land was taken
into trust. And that's why the regulations set out a
30-day period after the announcement of the intent to
take the land into trust before title is actually
transferred. So somebody would have to file during that
period, as the MichGO plaintiffs did --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That, I understand.
That's why I said timely filed.
MR. MILLER: And the proper plaintiff for a
claim under section 5 -- and, of course, there can be
other claims under NEPA or the IGRA -- but under section
5 of the IRA, the proper plaintiff would be a State or
local government, because those are the entities that
are directly affected, directly regulated by the
transfer of jurisdiction to the tribe --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume a situation
where you first promise the land to one tribe, and then,
in the midst of negotiations, another tribe lays claim.
The United States says, I change my mind; I'm going to
give the land to the other tribe. Does the tribe that
you have denied the land to have any standing or any
rights with respect to challenging that determination?
MR. MILLER: Yes. As the beneficiaries of
section 5, the parties for whose benefit Congress acted
and the Secretary would be acting, I think in that
scenario a tribe would have standing to challenge it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Miller, you -- you claim
on behalf of the government that the decision of whether
to take the land into trust has nothing to do with the
use to which the land will be put; wherefore, these
plaintiffs who were complaining about the use to which
it'll be put have no standing.
If that is so, why did the government delay
the taking into trust for 3 years while there was
pending a lawsuit which would have prevented the use
that the government intended the newly trusted land to
be used for?
You delayed for 3 years because there was a
challenge to whether you could use -- whether this land
could be used for what you call gaming and I call
gambling.
Why did you delay for 3 years if it's
irrelevant?
MR. MILLER: Well, the -- the challenge in
that case was -- was not just to the use. It was to the
decision to take title to land into trust. And the
Secretary's policy, as set out in --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait. On what basis?
On any basis other than --
MR. MILLER: There was a NEPA claim, for
example. And the -- the plaintiff in that case, the
MichGO organization, alleged that the Secretary had not
complied with NEPA, had not adequately considered the
environmental consequences of the action to take the
land into trust.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what environmental
action consequences are there from the mere decision to
take it into trust? Unless you know what it's going to
be used for, you have no idea what the environmental
consequences are.
MR. MILLER: Well, that's -- that is true.
And it is also true that NEPA may in some circumstances
require consideration of the use for which the land is
to be put; but, it doesn't follow that section 5
requires or contemplates protecting the interests of
nearby landowners from the use.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the challenge was
to -- was to the transfer, you say.
MR. MILLER: That -- I mean, that was -- the
allegation --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Based in part on the use to
which it was going to be put; right?
MR. MILLER: Right, but what -- what MichGO
was seeking, what the plaintiff was seeking in that
case, was an injunction barring the transfer.
And the Secretary's policy -- the whole point
of the 30-day regulation is to allow people who want to
challenge the transfer to have a full opportunity to
litigate those claims. And that is why the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that wouldn't be true
of Mr. Patchak? Suppose he had filed in the 30-day
window. The Secretary gives notice to affected persons.
So he comes in and he says: I think that you don't have
authority to do it because this tribe wasn't under
Federal jurisdiction, and so I want you to call -- call
it off. Nothing -- nothing has been transferred within
30 days.
I thought both your brief and the tribe's
brief said that the judicial review would be available
to any affected person who used that procedure. Is
that -- is that true?
MR. MILLER: I mean, if they could establish
standing, but -- if he had filed within the 30-day
period, the Secretary would not take title to the land
until there was a full opportunity for judicial review.
Now, in this case, he filed outside the
30-day period. He was aware that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you said -- you had it
was important if. So the argument is this tribe wasn't
under Federal jurisdiction. I could raise that because
I'm an affected person. Somebody's got to be able to
enforce against the Secretary the limitations that
Congress put on the Secretary. So would there be
standing in that situation?
Mr. Patchak comes in within the 30-day
period, so he's not trying to undo any done deal.
MR. MILLER: There would not be standing for
Patchak as a private individual, but there would be
standing for a State or local government or, in
the unusual situation that Justice Sotomayor suggested,
for another tribe --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So then you disagree with
the tribe that said in no uncertain terms, in its reply
brief, that this case is not about the availability of
judicial review. Judicial review was available in the
30-day window.
MR. MILLER: I think we -- we don't disagree
with that in the context of the discussion of the
sovereign immunity issue. I don't understand that
statement in the tribe's brief to have been a concession
that there would have been standing.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, on the standing point,
I mean, the -- the distinction that you're setting up
between acquisition of land and use of land -- this goes
back to Justice Scalia's question -- that strikes
me as -- as artificial, that the question of when land
is acquired is all tied up with the question of what use
is going to be made of it.
The government doesn't acquire this land with
no object in mind. It thinks about how the land is
going to be used. So that in the end, this really is a
land use statute, isn't it?
MR. MILLER: Well, it is a land use statute
in -- in this sense, in the sense that -- and you're
right that the regulations do refer to the purposes for
which the land is to be used, but that's because --
JUSTICE KAGAN: And the statute as well
thinks of this as a -- is a statute that's designed to
promote economic development, which is dependent on some
understanding of how the land is actually going to be
used by the tribes.
MR. MILLER: That -- that is exactly right.
And that's why, in determining whether -- the Secretary
has to take account of use in order to determine whether
it will, in fact, serve the interest of promoting tribal
economic development and self-governance, but it doesn't
follow that the effect of that use on bystanders, on
other property owners in the vicinity, is within the
interests that Congress had in mind --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why not? Of course, it
doesn't have to be within the interest, it just has to
be arguably within the interest. That -- that adverb is
left out in much of the discussion.
But if, indeed, the use of the land is one of
the elements to be considered in taking title, why isn't
somebody who is affected by the proposed use within the
zone of interest?
MR. MILLER: Because -- I mean, just to take
the facts of this case as an example, you know,
Patchak's objection is not to the jurisdictional
transfer. It's not to the fact that this is now going
to be tribal land rather than land subject to the taxing
or regulatory authority of the State of Michigan or
Allegan County --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to interrupt, in
other words, it's not to the title.
MR. MILLER: Well, I mean -- that is -- the
relief he is trying to get is to undo that, but
the -- the injury doesn't come from that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry.
MR. MILLER: The injury comes from the fact
that the land is going to be used for gaming, but in
1934 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You could put that it way,
or you could put it that the injury comes from the
government's taking title for gaming. Okay? You could
put it that way as well.
MR. MILLER: But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Inasmuch as the government
always has a purpose in mind when it takes title.
MR. MILLER: But for the zone of interest
test, the question would be, are people who may be
adversely affected by gaming on Indian land within the
zone of interest -- is that interest arguably
something the tribe -- Congress was speaking to --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm a little confused.
The government --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: On what date was it -- on
what date was it clear that the use would be gaming?
There is some suggestion in the briefs that, oh, well,
it could be light industry and it was zoned for economic
use generally. At what point was it acknowledged by all
that this would be for gaming? At the very outset?
MR. MILLER: I believe that in applying to
have the land taken into trust, the tribe said what --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: At the very outset.
MR. MILLER: -- it wanted to happen.
JUSTICE ALITO: What would happen if someone
filed a challenge within the 30-day period and then the
government took title to the land while the litigation
was pending? Do the regulations preclude that from
happening while the litigation continues, or is it
necessary for the -- the challenger to obtain a stay
from a court?
MR. MILLER: The regulations do not address
that. The BIA manual provides that that action, of
taking the land into trust, should not be taken while
the litigation is pending.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, is that enforceable?
MR. MILLER: I -- I think that it would not
be, but I think that -- I guess I would say two things
about that. The first is that the Secretary enacted
these regulations, the 30-day notice rule, precisely for
the purpose of ensuring that there would be an adequate
opportunity for judicial review, and thus removing the
constitutional doubt that the Eighth Circuit had found
associated with the IRA.
And I think -- so there is every reason to
think that the Secretary is going to conscientiously
carry out what those regulations provide for, which is
allowing judicial review. And if the Secretary were
ever to do that, I think he would find that going
forward in every case, courts would enter a stay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they didn't
here. I mean, when Patchak filed his suit, title had
not yet passed to the Secretary. And he sought a stay.
MR. MILLER: And -- and it was -- it was
denied, and he could have sought relief from the court
of appeals, and he didn't.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But nothing -- at
that point, you thought nothing prevented the Secretary
from moving forward, and in fact, the Secretary did move
forward even though he'd already filed the suit.
MR. MILLER: That -- yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, then why
isn't it just like your 30 days?
MR. MILLER: Well, because this was a suit
that was not filed within the 30-day period. The --
JUSTICE BREYER: So what?
MR. MILLER: They --
JUSTICE BREYER: Can I -- the -- this is
exactly the point that I don't understand. Forget
standing for a moment. I'm just thinking of your quiet
title action.
This wasn't an action to quiet title at all.
This was a -- I looked at the complaint, as I -- as I
gather from his questions, so did the Chief Justice.
And it is a complaint filed before the -- the property
was taken into trust, and it asks for an injunction
under the APA, if it wants review of that, before the
government has any title to it at all, or at least it
hasn't taken it into trust.
So why are we considering quiet title? What
has that to do with this? Why isn't it
exactly what -- now, that's the same as the Chief
Justice asked, and I have exactly the same question.
MR. MILLER: Right. Well -- and in that
period before the land is taken into trust, the APA,
everyone agrees, permits -- permits that litigation.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, why isn't
that -- that's the end of that argument, then, isn't it?
Because this suit was brought seeking an injunction
before the land was taken into trust; the district court
denies the request for the injunction. The court of
appeals reverses that. And so there we are. We're
reviewing that action by the court of appeals, reviewing
a judge who said you are not entitled to an injunction
sought before the land was taken into trust.
MR. MILLER: Because at this point, the
question of whether to enjoin the transfer from taking
place is moot. Because --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, I don't know about that.
Well --
MR. MILLER: The relief that's being sought
now -- and this is made clear in Patchak's brief in the
court of appeals -- is an order compelling the Secretary
to relinquish the title to the land. And so that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I don't know how --
how we should treat that. There -- there was an order.
Suppose that order was wrong. Suppose they should have
granted the injunction. Then isn't what we should do,
send it back because that injunction should have been
granted, then have a hearing or trial or whatever you
want to have on whether the Act applies, and then figure
out how you do relief? Which I don't know.
MR. MILLER: No. The time to seek review of
whether to enjoin a not-yet-completed transfer is before
the transfer is completed.
JUSTICE BREYER: They did.
MR. MILLER: But -- and if he wanted to
appeal the district court's denial of that injunction,
he could have done so as of right under --
JUSTICE BREYER: He didn't appeal that. He
appealed it different --
MR. MILLER: He did not appeal it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then your -- your
argument is just one of timing and not the fact that the
reliance is on the -- is on the QTA.
The tribe says, isn't it ironic that if you
really have a claim in the land as a property owner, you
can't sue under the QTA, and this person is much further
removed. Well, that's because he has a different ground
for relief. That's all we're talking about.
MR. MILLER: Well, the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So the fact that the QTA
suddenly, deus ex machina, pops onto the scene doesn't
mean that it -- that that changes his -- his ground for
relief that he's -- that he's relying upon. His ground
of relief has always been the same, APA.
MR. MILLER: With -- with respect, Your
Honor, once the land is taken into trust, the -- the
only effective relief would be an order taking the land
out of trust, and that's what brings this within the
scope of the QTA.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that depends on whether
sovereign immunity is judged as of the time of the
filing of the complaint or as of the time of the
litigation of the sovereign immunity claim, right? And
you claim -- you don't want us to address that issue.
MR. MILLER: We -- we think it's -- it's not
properly before the Court. But I mean, one thing I
would just say about that is it is not remarkable, or it
often happens that, as the nature of the claims or the
identity of the parties changes throughout the course of
litigation, sovereign immunity can bar a suit that
wouldn't have been barred before.
And one example of that is under the Westfall
Act. Somebody sues an officer of the United States for
a tort, that suit can go forward. But if the Attorney
General then certifies under the Westfall Act that the
employee was acting within the scope of his or her
duties, then it gets converted into an action against
the United States, which might, if it falls within one
of the FTCA exceptions, be brought --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the Act provides for
that. The Act provides for that, right?
MR. MILLER: Well, but that -- that's just an
example of how, as -- as the parties, or the relief --
here, it's the relief -- changes, sovereign immunity can
bar an action.
If I could reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Millett.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER IN NO. 11-246
MS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
When you strip title to land, which is a fact
in this case, you strip sovereignty. You wreak havoc on
ongoing governmental operations, you -- on criminal
jurisdiction, civil jurisdiction, the backdrop against
which contracts were negotiated, investment decisions
made and economic development undertaken.
That is why the Congress of the United States
and this Court in Coeur D'Alene have never allowed
injunctive relief to strip the United States of title
that it has. The essence of sovereign immunity is,
right or wrong, you cannot take title away that the
United States has.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, is -- is that in
the -- is that in the Administrative Procedure Act? I
thought the Administrative Procedure Act eliminates
the -- the old bugaboo of sovereign immunity, and says
when it -- when it will stand and when it won't.
MS. MILLETT: If you look --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if you're relying on the
Quiet Title Act, that -- that clearly covers only suits
which seek to say, I own the land rather than the
government, and this is not such a suit. So I don't see
why the normal APA principles wouldn't govern.
MS. MILLETT: For two reasons, Justice
Scalia. Because the APA itself -- and this is on page
6a of the addendum to our brief -- says that it does not
waive sovereign immunity and does not grant relief if
another statute expressly or impliedly forecloses the
relief that is sought. And the Quiet Title Act says you
cannot have an injunction stripping the United States of
land, period, and you cannot have any litigation over
title --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but the relief to be
sought under the Quiet Title Act is title in the
plaintiff. That's the relief ultimately sought.
MS. MILLETT: No --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, on the way to that, you
may -- you may get some injunctive remedy, but the basis
for the lawsuit is -- is not: I own the land.
MS. MILLETT: With respect, Justice Scalia,
you can get no injunctive relief whatsoever even if you
are asserting title. But the Quiet Title Act itself is
brought -- it limits relief to monetary compensation,
unless the government agrees to a specific relief.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Relief in that kind of suit,
yes.
MS. MILLETT: Yes --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Relief in that kind of suit.
But this is not that kind of suit.
MS. MILLETT: But -- no. Justice Scalia,
with respect, on page -- this is 2a of the addendum to
our brief, 2409a(a), the type of suit that is addressed,
and to which the Indian lands exception applies, is a
suit -- and I'm reading here from the second line of
a(a): "A civil action -- "
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I guess I've
lost you.
MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry. I'm on the addendum
to our -- the blue brief, 2a, and this is the Quiet
Title Act.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MS. MILLETT: And right -- subsection (a),
the second line, all right: "The waiver of sovereign
immunity is for a civil action under this section to
adjudicate a disputed title." It does not say --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Millett, it also says:
"Under this section."
MS. MILLETT: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And the section describes the
complaint. It says: "The complainant shall set forth
with particularity the nature of the right, title, or
interest which the plaintiff claims."
So the type of suit that this section has in
mind is a suit in which the plaintiff claims a right,
title or interest. And the language that you read,
"under this section," well, that's what this section is
about, a suit in which a plaintiff claims the right,
title or interest.
MS. MILLETT: No, Justice Kagan, in this
respect. That tells you what you have to do if you are
allowed to proceed under the statute to win, the first
step of what you have to do. But what subsection (a)
says is what is carved out, what is a wholesale -- and
this Court said in Mottaz, a retention of immunity, even
in the face of arguments that the government has done
wrong administratively, as in Mottaz. What you
do -- have done is retain immunity.
When the -- the section here right under the
sentence I read, Justice Scalia, about this section does
not apply to trust or restricted Indian lands, what that
meant was that this -- that Congress, against a backdrop
of complete immunity, said: We've looked at lands,
we've studied what we're doing, and we are not doing two
things, and we're going to be explicit about it. We are
not letting you touch Indian lands. The United
States may not be named --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can say that again and
again, counsel, but it does say "under this section."
And I don't -- I don't know how you get out from under
that. It says "under this section."
MS. MILLETT: This --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if this section applies
only to suits seeking to assert title on the part of a
plaintiff, it's not under this section.
MS. MILLETT: They are -- this section is, I
think, defined by what Congress's waiver of sovereign
immunity. And it didn't say we're waiving sovereign
immunity for quiet title actions. It says for a civil
action in which the United States' title is disputed.
So quieting U.S. title --
JUSTICE BREYER: But that -- but you
don't -- you can't believe that totally because you
agree there is some APA review of an action brought
before the title shifts where, the claim is, you cannot
take title, Secretary. You agree with that. You can
bring some.
MS. MILLETT: Absolutely. Before title --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Once you agree to
that, I stop at the words, not just "under this
section," but "to adjudicate a disputed title to real
property."
Then I read his complaint. His complaint, on
31 to 38, is asking for an injunction, and it's asking
for an injunction before they take any title to the
property. And maybe they went ahead and did it anyway,
but is there some other complaint that I didn't read?
Is there some amendment to the complaint in the record?
If so, where is it?
MS. MILLETT: I think there's a constructive
amendment in this sense, because if it's only
thing with --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know what a
constructive amendment is.
MS. MILLETT: Well, let me see if I can
explain. If I can explain. To be sure, the complaint,
which was untimely filed for purposes of the protection
of the government's not taking it into -- into trust,
but the set -- it did seek to stop the decision from
happening.
After that happened, when he did not seek
appeal or emergency relief from the district court not
giving him the injunction he asked for -- he asked for a
preliminary injunction to stop the taking of title. The
district court didn't give it. It actually sat on it,
constructively denied it. And it's well recognized in
courts of appeals, you can appeal a constructive denial
of a preliminary injunction. He didn't do that.
This is the way litigation works. Title
shifted. Sovereign immunity shifted. The Quiet Title
Act didn't apply, then it did apply because title was in
the hand and in the name of the United States
Government.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought you were going to
answer how his -- his complaint constructively changed.
MS. MILLETT: And so after that, he had two
choices. He could have dismissed the action as moot.
But what happened is he continued to press -- and this is
on page 25 of his brief, his court of appeals brief, at
page 26 and 27 -- he wants an injunction now, not to stop
title, but to take title out. And that's when the Quiet
Title Act --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought you were going to
tell us how it constructively changed to be an action
seeking to have a decree that title was in him, which is
what the QTA covers.
MS. MILLETT: No, it was --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MS. MILLETT: No, because the Quiet Title
Act --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So even constructively, it
hasn't turned into that.
MS. MILLETT: The Quiet Title Act, when it
says -- when it says the only way we'll give you a
relief is if you can establish that you have an interest
in the land, forecloses suits seeking to adjudicate --
adjudicate, excuse me -- disputed U.S. title by those
who don't even have an interest.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel --
MS. MILLETT: And against the back -- I'm
sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, you're assuming
that the statute was passed against a backdrop of
complete sovereign immunity, but if you look at Larson
and Malone, it appears as if prior to the enactment of
the QTA, people could bring suits to say that an officer
had acted beyond his or her statutory authority. So
what the Quiet Title Act did was encapsulate some of
that law.
From where do we draw the conclusion that the
intent was to eliminate every other claim that could be
brought under something like the APA, or an officer
suit?
MS. MILLETT: To be clear, as Justice Scalia
himself then testified before Congress, the law was a
mess, and you could not discern anything from Larson,
Malone. And the one area where actually courts have
pretty consistently denied relief, as Justice Scalia
then said, was in the land area.
And Congress responded to hardship, but in
doing so, it was making a critical balance. It knew how
disruptive to government it is to pull the rug out from
under the feet of the Federal Government's operations.
And -- and it said we're going to draw lines,
and there's three lines. It said: No suits involving
Indian lands, no injunctive relief or coercive
injunctive relief at all will be allowed. If -- if you
have a right, you will only get damages unless the
government agrees otherwise. And to prevail, you must
have an interest in land.
Now, that is a concerted judgment of Congress
that we will not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could I say, just for
a moment, let's suppose the tribe -- the -- Mr. Patchak
brings a nuisance action against the tribe for running a
casino and imposing all these difficulties on the
surrounding previously rural community. He says this is
a nuisance.
And the tribe answers and says: No, we can
do this under the Indian Gaming Regulation Act. And
Patchak then says: Well, no, because you don't have
valid authority under that Act because the Secretary
shouldn't have taken the land into title.
Now, that is not a quiet title action. That
is a nuisance action. Can he have that adjudicated in
that suit?
MS. MILLETT: He could -- he could bring a
nuisance action, assuming the tribe waives sovereign
immunity, which would be its own problem. Assuming --
I'm assuming this is a suit against the tribe and not
the Secretary.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right, right.
MS. MILLETT: And so there'd be their own
either State law or sovereign immunity questions, if he
could bring it. And then if the government tried to
raise this as -- or, excuse me, the tribe raised it as a
preemption defense, then there would be a separate
question whether at that point a court could issue,
consistent with the Quiet Title Act, a declaratory
judgment which would pull the rug out from the
government's feet.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. But there'd
be no --
MS. MILLETT: Now, to be sure, in the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- question of his
ability to sue and put that question at issue.
MS. MILLETT: There's no question he could
bring a -- assuming tribal sovereign immunity, that he
could bring a nuisance action, but it's also important
to remember in that context, the other reason that
nuisance action would fail is that the courts have
already ruled on this claim about the legitimacy of
authorization of gambling, about the environmental
effects and the esthetic effects in the MichGO
litigation. This is simply recycled through the IRA
claims that have already been adjudicated and lost.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that's a
question that's not before us.
MS. MILLETT: So -- but with respect to the
question of judicial review that was mentioned earlier
and I think would be implicated, obviously, in a
nuisance action for -- this is sort of being
case-specific with respect to claim preclusion and
issues like that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MS. MILLETT: Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Nelson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW T. NELSON
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. NELSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
This is a classic APA action. Mr. Patchak is
challenging unlawful agency action. Mr. Patchak is not
asserting a quiet title action where someone asserts an
interest in property owned by the government and is
trying to get that property back.
And as this Court has already discussed, the
best evidence of that is the fact that Mr. Patchak filed
this suit before the land was taken into trust. The
fact that the government subsequently took the land did
not affect the nature of Mr. Patchak's lawsuit.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he didn't file it
within the 30-day window, so that -- that is -- there
was a clear track. He could have filed within 30 days,
and at least the government tells us that that would
have been subject to judicial review, the ruling made
within -- that nothing would go on until that action was
cleared.
So why -- if he could have sued early, before
any title transfer, why isn't that all the relief
someone in his position would be entitled to? Why
should he be allowed to wait?
I mean, the whole purpose of the 30-day
window is to get people to state their objections.
MR. NELSON: Justice Ginsburg, the 30-day
window is a notice period. Mr. Patchak did in fact file
his lawsuit within the 6-year statute of limitations
provided by Congress for APA claims. And the reason
that the Secretary adopted the 30-day notice provision
is the very argument that we believe is misplaced here,
namely that the Quiet Title Act springs up to bar
judicial review after the land is taken into trust.
We don't believe that's the case, because
Mr. Patchak is not asserting a Quiet Title Act action,
which is limited to those claims where someone says,
this is my property and I want it back or, with regard
to the government, at least pay me for it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you say the 30-day
window only applies to quiet title actions.
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, the 30-day
window -- yes, if someone was asserting a quiet title
action, the 30-day window would apply.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Surely -- surely the 30-day
envisions comments by anybody, not just people who claim
to own the property, doesn't it?
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, certainly it
provides for comments, in that people can come and
assert their comments. Absolutely. But it doesn't
prevent someone from asserting a lawsuit.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would you have been
entitled to file in that 30-day period? How is your
claim, the one that you ultimately made, any different
than what you would have done if you had filed within
the 30 days?
MR. NELSON: Justice Sotomayor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Same claim; right?
MR. NELSON: It is the same claim, yes, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Tell me what
relief you're seeking that's different than -- are
you -- what relief are you seeking? Aren't you seeking
to shed the United States of its title?
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, the relief that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Just the -- what's
the -- don't tell me what your cause of action is. What
relief at the end of the day do you want?
MR. NELSON: Justice Sotomayor, Mr. Patchak
is seeking a declaratory judgment that the decision of
the Secretary that it can take land into trust for this
particular band of Indians is incorrect, and that
therefore, the decision to do so is ultra vires; and as
an incident to that relief, now that the government has
taken the land into trust, that the land now be taken
out of trust.
That does not convert this, though, into a
quiet title action, because Mr. Patchak is not asserting
an interest in the property itself.
The relief of the quiet title action
provides -- has two parts. It both provides for -- that
title will be taken from the government, and that title
will be quieted in the plaintiff. The relief that
Mr. Patchak is seeking does not include quieting title
in himself.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Nelson, putting that
question aside of whether this is or isn't a quiet title
action, there's another question, which is whether
sovereign immunity can come into effect after a suit has
been filed. It seems to me a hard question, and one
that has not been briefed by either party particularly.
So I just ask you, is there case -- are there
any cases that you can point to that suggest that
sovereign immunity cannot come into effect after a suit
has been filed? Because what the government says is,
you know, circumstances change, conditions change on the
ground, sovereign immunity can pop up where it didn't
exist before.
Is there any precedent that you have to
negate that?
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, I am not at this
time prepared to say that there is or is not. I do know
that we have cited in the footnote in our brief the -- I
believe it's the Grupo Dataflux case that indicates that
jurisdiction is decided at the time that the complaint
is filed. Because the D.C. Circuit specifically
reserved this issue, we did not believe this issue was
before the Court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The government answers to
that, that's in diversity. You know, you determine
citizenship as of the date the complaint is filed. If
the citizenship of a party changes, so it coincides with
someone on the other side of -- of the line, it doesn't
matter. But do you have cases other than diversity
cases where the filing of the complaint -- nothing
happens, nothing that can happen after affects the
jurisdiction as set as of the time the complaint is
filed? I don't know, outside diversity, where this
principle has applied.
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, I am not at this
time aware of any cases. I'm not, unfortunately, in a
position to say that the cases do not exist or do exist.
I believe the issue was addressed in the -- the D.C.
Circuit briefing, but I'm not aware at this time of any
cases that would -- that address this specific issue.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The Solicitor General
in footnote 1 of his reply brief says that's the general
rule, which I take it there might be exceptions to it.
MR. NELSON: Exceptions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I'm sure he'll
tell us what those are.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, is there any
limit to who can bring an APA action under your theory?
It seems to me that what you're saying is that anyone
other than a landowner because of the Quiet Title Act
can within 6 years attempt to unravel any decision the
government has made to take land, because we're not
limited now to trust lands.
We're limited -- under your theory, whenever
the government takes any kind of land, anyone's entitled
to come in and challenge that action under the APA for 6
years, and to seek an injunction because it isn't a
quiet title action. It's merely a challenge to the
decision to take land.
Is there any limit to your theory as to who
can bring that kind of action and --
MR. NELSON: Justice Sotomayor, yes, there is
a limit on who may assert these actions. First, with
regard to this Court's prudential standing analysis
would obviously provide a limitation, but second, with
regard --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In which way? You're
saying anyone who's affected, your niece, your farm
owner's niece who comes to visit twice a year or visits
the land and walks through it, could presumably say:
I'm negatively affected by the government's taking of
this land, Indian or not, within the 6 years, and the
government improperly took the land. Undo it.
MR. NELSON: No, Your Honor, I don't believe
that my -- that my client's niece would have prudential
standing because I don't think that you could -- that
that person would arguably be within the zone of
interests to assert that claim. I think that the zone
of interest test does exclude people who might have
Article III standing from asserting these types of
claims.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought that -- maybe I'm
wrong, but the government will correct me if I am. I
thought the government concedes that a NEPA action
could -- could be brought when the government is taking
land to use for a particular use. Let's say
it's -- it's taking land for a nuclear waste repository.
Certainly, a NEPA action would -- would lie. You don't
disagree with that, do you?
MR. NELSON: We don't disagree.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're supposed to say "yes,
sir, good."
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, but my
question -- counsel, my question was different. Under
your theory, you could bring this suit after the land
has been taken. NEPA assumes before the land was taken.
I'm talking about under your theory of law, once land
has been taken by the U.S., if anyone has a viable legal
claim that the land was taken improperly, whether it's
Indian trust land or anyone else's land for any other
purpose, that person within 6 years can still bring a
suit under the APA.
MR. NELSON: Only to the extent that the land
is taken as a result of administrative action.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no. You can't -- I
mean --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Government land is always
taken by administrative action.
MR. NELSON: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought -- I
mean -- sorry. You answer it as you want according to
your argument.
There is a difficult question here. The
difficult question is what happens if one brings an
ordinary APA suit before land is taken, before that suit
can be decided -- before that suit can be decided, the
government takes the land. Does that transform it into
a quiet title action?
The obvious answer, which isn't obvious at
all, is that the answer is that it's a proper APA suit
if you bring it before they take it. And if you bring
it after they take it, it's a quiet title action.
And -- and that would seem to me a first-blush answer.
But I haven't found -- I mean, that's a
question we don't -- I don't know if we have to answer
that question. It seems to me quite difficult. And I
don't know what authority there is. And is it fully
argued in the briefs? So what -- isn't that
what -- you're thinking -- I think Justice Sotomayor is
thinking, well, and you just said you can bring it
after. I don't know if you can bring it after.
So go answer now --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: And I want to hear what you
say.
MR. NELSON: Thank you, Justice Breyer.
The fact that this -- the fact -- the fact
that the land is taken into trust does not transform the
action into a quiet title action simply because the
government --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Forget about the trust.
MR. NELSON: Okay.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because under your theory
of what -- what the APA permits you to do, anytime the
government takes land, whether into trust or for any
other purpose, the APA permits someone within 6 years,
with whatever definition of prudential standing you want
to give it, to come in after the taking and challenge
that it was ultra vires, that it was done improperly.
That's your theory.
So going back to Justice Breyer's question,
why isn't that within the quiet title action
prohibition --
MR. NELSON: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- once it's in the
government's hands?
MR. NELSON: Once it's in the government's
hands, it is -- it does not -- once the government
acquires the title, it does not change the nature of the
APA action, because the Quiet Title Act is limited to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're not -- you're
answering the question with regard to an argument I
don't think you've made and I don't think you would want
to make. You're not asserting that the action can be
brought anytime within 6 years after the government has
already taken the land. You're just asserting that an
action brought before the government takes the land does
not change its character and become a quiet title action
afterwards; right?
MR. NELSON: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're not saying that
anybody can bring within 6 years after the government's
taking a suit, are you? I hope you're not arguing that.
MR. NELSON: Absolutely not, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Thank you.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE ALITO: What would happen now, as a
practical matter, if Mr. Patchak were to -- were to
prevail? I take -- I understand the casino's built and
running. So what would happen?
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, what would happen
here, to our understanding, is the land would be taken
out of trust and would revert to the tribe.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I think the government
told us that the land didn't belong to the tribe in the
first place.
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, I'm not entirely
sure as to what the status of the title was. Our
understanding is that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the government did
say that the Band was not the prior owner of the tract.
So where would it go?
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, the -- it depends in
part, I believe, at this -- at that point, based on
State law, what the effect of the Court's decision would
be. Would it render the trust status void? If so,
under Michigan law, the land would vest in the intended
beneficiary, which is the tribe.
If it -- if it does not, if the entire action
would be undone, the land would revert back to the prior
owner, which, to the best of my understanding, is a
company that involves ownership both by a group of Las
Vegas investors and also, to my understanding, the Band
itself; although I could be corrected on that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Was that the -- I thought
part of it was agricultural land, and that another part
was a business. I mean, I think -- I thought -- well,
the government can correct me.
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, the land itself was
partially agricultural and partially light
manufacturing. That was how it was zoned.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right.
MR. NELSON: But it was all owned as a single
parcel. The Bradley tract was, I believe, a single
parcel for the purpose of --
JUSTICE BREYER: But your injury, your
injury is that it's being used for gambling. So is
there room for relief that could say the government can
do what it wants to the land, it just can't let it be
used for gambling, if you want.
And that would cure your injury, and it
wouldn't require the government to give back the land,
and it wouldn't require any unscrambling, and title
could rest in the government. I don't know if that's
possible or not possible.
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, we -- we looked into
and wanted to make an argument that somehow you could
separate the trust title status and the Federal
Government's fee simple interest. And in looking at the
deed itself, it doesn't look like that can be done.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What were the provisions,
if any, in the Indian Reorganization Act itself that
show a concern for the kind of standing that you're
alleging here?
It seems to me you're talking about
environmental effects and so forth under the
Indian Gaming Act, but yet your primary suit is under
the Indian Reorganization Act. So I don't see -- I
understand how that might give you standing, but how
does it give you a cause of action for relief under the
Indian Reorganization Act?
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, land --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The Indian Reorganization
Act, just to help pursue the question a little bit
further, has a provision about the public interest, but
not in the section that you're relying on. It doesn't
say anything about the public interest.
MR. NELSON: Yes, Your Honor, section 463 of
the Indian Gaming Act --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: 463 does, but you're going
under 465.
MR. NELSON: Correct, we're under 465,
Your Honor.
Justice Kennedy, I would point to the fact
that the land is authorized to be taken into trust for
Indians, and when land is taken into trust, it
necessarily implicates the use. And as soon as the use
is implicated, anyone who is affected by that
use -- people who live in close proximity to that
land -- are within -- are arguably within the scope of
those people who Congress would expect to enforce --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What is the specific
provision of the IRA that you rely on? You -- do you go
back to 463? Because there's nothing in 465 that
answers your -- this question, I don't think.
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, I agree that section
465 does not specifically reference the public interest.
It does, however -- the intent in 465 is to have land
taken into trust. And I don't believe that you can
separate the fact that the land is being taken into
trust from the specific use to which it is being put.
Congress authorized the land to be taken into
trust for a specific use. And you can see, in fact,
that the government has reached the same conclusion.
When you look at the regulations that the Secretary has
adopted in consideration of section 465, they not only
address land use, the tribe has to identify the use to
which the land will be put, but they also require the
tribe to identify any conflicts of land use, which
clearly addresses the fact that other people are going
to be affected by the land use.
Consequently, those -- and we believe
those -- those regulations are subject to Chevron
deference because they fall within the scope of the
authority delegated to the Secretary, and they don't
conflict with the broad delegation there in the -- in
section 465. So --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's helpful. Just a
different question, going back to what -- Justice
Alito's question. It does seem that we may be wasting
our time. I'm not suggesting that the State -- that the
case is moot, but you did wait for some 3 years before
you brought this suit. The building was built. It
seems to me there's a considerable laches problem. I
suppose that's just not before us.
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, in fact, the APA
reserves the laches defense, and the laches defense has
been asserted here. But I would point out that the
casino hadn't -- the casino did not open, and they did
not move forward with this until after the land was
taken into trust, which was 6 months after this lawsuit
was filed.
At that point, in spite of the knowledge of
this Court's decision in Carcieri, they made a
reasonable business decision to move forward with this,
knowing the risk that they were taking, that the entire
basis of them being able to operate a casino and engage
in class 3 gambling could be overturned.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Nelson --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that was under the
MichGO suit, not yours.
MR. NELSON: No, Your Honor. They knew that
our suit had been filed --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, your suit had been
filed at that point.
MR. NELSON: Correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Nelson, could I
understand the scope of your argument? Because I had
understood -- let's take the timing question aside for a
minute. Let's -- let's assume that you had filed this
suit after title had transferred. I had understood that
your argument was, yes, you should be allowed to do that
because, even though this was filed after title had
transferred, yours is just not a quiet title action.
And it's not a quiet title action because you're not
seeking title yourself.
Isn't that the question? Isn't that your
argument?
MR. NELSON: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So your argument really has
nothing to do with the question of timing. Your
argument would be the same even if title had transferred
prior to your filing your lawsuit.
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, we believe that that
is a logical result, but we do not believe that the
Court needs to address that issue in this case because
our argument is much stronger than that because we did,
in fact, file suit before the land was taken into trust.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, as I understood your
brief, 49 pages of it were about one thing, and there's
one footnote that's about something else.
In other words, all of your brief is
basically saying: Ours is just not a quiet title
action, and so we should be allowed to proceed
irrespective of when the government acquires title. And
then you have this little additional argument which
says: By the way, we started this lawsuit before the
government had title anyway.
So, I mean, the briefing in this case is all
about what you now say is your weakest point.
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, I would disagree
that it's our weakest point, but I do agree that
the -- that the logic here of the position that this is
not a Quiet Title Act action means that even if the
government acquires title to the land while the suit is
pending, that logically, it would then follow that the
action remains an APA action, and it is not converted
into a quiet title action.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think you're right. I
pushed you into it. It's my fault. You're right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the proposition
would be simply that the government can't go in
and -- and moot out a suit that was -- by its unilateral
action, right?
MR. NELSON: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, they seem to
recognize that it would be a bad thing, since it's only
by their grace, they've told us, that they don't do it
right away anyway. They give people 30 days.
MR. NELSON: Correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But didn't they --
wasn't -- didn't they have some encouragement from a
court of appeals suggesting there might be a due process
problem if they didn't have that notice?
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, there was the Eighth
Circuit decision -- I believe it was United States v.
South Dakota or South Dakota v. United States -- in
which the Court there found that the lack of judicial
review pushed towards the conclusion that the
Reorganization Act is an unconstitutional delegation of
the legislative authority. And that was one of the
reasons, or that was the reason cited in the Federal
Register, for why the Department of Interior adopted the
30-day notice provision.
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't think Justice
Scalia's argument was a bad argument. I thought it was
a rather good argument. If in fact you go back and you
take the view that any suit filed to review APA is not a
quiet title action, people could go upset government
title to property years and years later. And they would
say: Oh, well, we're not challenging the title; we're
just challenging what happened when it was taken, the
title was taken.
That can't be right, it seems to me, first
blush. So therefore, I thought you -- yours is different
because you filed before they took title. But as I say,
I'm uncertain of that distinction.
Now, your answer suggests you've been going
both ways. Sometimes you think, well, it matters that
we filed before. And other times, you think, no, it
doesn't matter.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that because you don't
have a theory as to why once the government takes it,
it's not a quiet title action?
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, the Quiet Title Act
by its terms requires that the person who is asserting
the action had an interest in the property.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So answer my question, or
the one that Justice Breyer has said. Then it
doesn't -- and the one Justice Kagan repeated yet
again -- okay? What difference does it make that the
government has taken title? Whether the government has
title or doesn't, under your theory, since this is not a
quiet action -- title action, anyone who is unhappy with
the way the government took title could challenge it
within 6 years. Isn't that the bottom line of your
theory?
MR. NELSON: Yes, Your Honor. Anyone --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Absent laches. You say
the only defense is laches.
MR. NELSON: No, Your Honor. The defenses
would be laches. The zone of interest would apply.
Other -- any other defense --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the bottom line is,
under your theory, as long as no landowner, the person
most directly affected by the taking, as long -- that
person can't sue, but anybody who is an indirect person
can sue within 6 years, anybody who says, I don't want
the land, I just don't want the U.S. to have the land.
MR. NELSON: No, Your Honor. There's a
distinction I think has to be made there.
The -- someone who has a right, title, or interest in
the property, absent there being trust land, can sue to
upset the government's title for 12 years under the
Quiet Title Act. They could bring a claim under the APA
for up to 6 years to govern the -- or to challenge the
government's decision to take the land --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they can't undo the
transfer. They can only get money.
MR. NELSON: Under the Quiet Title Act, they
can only -- for the 12-year period, they can only
undo -- they can -- excuse me. The government, if they
prevail, the government, correct, has the option of
deciding whether to pay for the land or to -- to give it
up.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, the government
can fix that. I mean, if this is indeed an inconvenient
situation, that we think the government should not be in
doubt for 6 years afterwards, I guess Congress can
simply change it; right?
MR. NELSON: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Totally within the control
of Congress. We -- we -- we don't have to make up some
limitation to protect -- to protect the United States.
MR. NELSON: I agree, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I suppose the question,
Mr. Nelson, though, is whether you can provide us with a
reason why Congress would have wanted what you call
quiet title suits -- and I agree that your definition is
the traditional definition. When somebody -- when the
plaintiff is a -- is himself asserting a right or
interest -- why those suits should be barred, but your
suit involving a third party should not be barred.
What could possibly be the reason to
distinguish between those two sets of cases?
Now, you might just say, I don't have to give
you a reason, this is what the result of the statute
says. But if I say, just try to provide me with a
reason why Congress would have wanted that distinction,
what would you say?
MR. NELSON: Your Honor, I guess I would
first say that because relief under the APA is different
than relief under the Quiet Title Act, someone with a
right, title or interest in the property can assert the
same claim that Mr. Patchak can, in spite of the fact
that they have that right, title or interest, under the
APA, as long as they do not seek under the APA to quiet
title in themselves.
Second, with regard to why this provision
would -- this provision is there -- I'm sorry, Your
Honor, I have to acknowledge I've lost the track of your
question.
Have I responded or can you restate it?
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what about this as a
reason? When you prevail in a quiet title action, the
only way the government can get off the hook is to give
you the land, if it's -- if it's within, what, the 6
years, or pay you money if it's after 6 years, but
within 12. Whereas in your case, I suppose the
government could moot the suit -- moot the suit, by
simply disallowing gambling.
Can the government do that?
MR. NELSON: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Once it has told the tribe
that they can have -- I mean, this suit could
be -- could go away so long as the tribe does not run a
casino; isn't that right? That's your -- that's the
gravamen of your complaint.
MR. NELSON: That is the gravamen of the
injury. Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So I guess you -- you could
be a happy fellow if -- so long as the tribe doesn't
build a casino. Whereas in -- in quiet title cases, the
only way you can make a happy fellow out of the
plaintiff is to give him the land.
MR. NELSON: Or to pay him for it, yes, Your
Honor.
Unless the Court has any further questions, I
cede the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Miller, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS IN NO. 11-247
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Mr. Miller, one -- one
question, if -- if I may. The government takes the
position -- at least this was the way the Respondent
puts it -- that it can basically moot their action by
turning this into a quiet title action just by taking
title. And let's assume that that's one
characterization of your position. And the Respondent
on the other hand says, oh, well, this is an APA action,
we can -- we can wait forever, at least for 6 years.
Is there some midway position that the
government can't moot the case too soon, that it must
wait a reasonable time? Or is there no basis in the
statute or in the cases for that position to hold?
MR. MILLER: If I understand correctly,
you're asking about a case where the -- the lawsuit is
filed before the land has been transferred.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, yes.
MR. MILLER: I don't know of any basis for
restricting the government's ability to do that. I
mean, short of the plaintiffs obtaining an injunction
from the Court. I guess the broader point I would make
about that timing question is that the -- the court of
appeals --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in other words,
you're -- you're sticking with your position. You say
you can basically moot a suit at any point you want just
by taking title, so you're -- you're not accepting any
qualification to that proposition.
MR. MILLER: That -- that is our position. I
would just emphasize that that was not the basis of
the -- the ruling of the court of appeals. The court of
appeals held that it doesn't matter when the suit is
filed, and under the Court's analysis --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All or nothing? Okay.
MR. MILLER: -- it would be exactly the same,
even if it was filed later. And I think the -- the
error in that analysis is -- is that the question here
is not whether Patchak's suit is a Quiet Title Act
action. The question is whether the Quiet Title Act
expressly or impliedly precludes relief under section
702, and the answer to that question is yes.
And I'd just like to make two points about
that. The first is that the general principle
recognized by this Court in Brown v. GSA and a number of
other cases is that when you have a narrowly drawn
remedial scheme for a particular subject, that that
precludes resort to more general remedies. And here,
the Quiet Title Act is exactly such a scheme. It's the
mechanism for adjudicating a disputed title to real
property in which the United States claims an interest,
and it has its own procedures, its own statute of
limitations --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but -- but in saying
that you've just broadened it, or arguably, you have.
If -- if you think that the quiet title action is really
about the narrower set of cases, which is when a person
himself claims title, how can you get from that to say
that there is an express or an implied refusal of -- of
this kind of claim?
MR. MILLER: I think -- for two reasons. And
the first is, just that -- that first sentence of
2409a(a), which is, you know, to adjudicate a disputed
title to land on which the United States claims an
interest. That's a perfect description of what this
case is.
And the second is that the last sentence of
section 702 directs our attention to whether the relief
is expressly or impliedly forbidden by another statute.
And the relief that is sought here is an order
compelling the Secretary to relinquish title on behalf
of the United States to this land. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What specific -- do
other consequences other than the ability of the
Secretary to take land in trust flow from whether or not
a tribe is recognized in 1934?
MR. MILLER: I -- I'm not aware of any. I'm
not sure that there aren't any others, but --
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. Do you have any
concern that the government will get hoist by its own
petard?
What your argument -- the conclusion to which
your argument leads is that this individual, or any
individual claiming that the government took title
incorrectly, can sue under the Quiet Title Act, even if
they don't claim that title was taken from them.
Are you sure that's good for the government?
MR. MILLER: Well, this action would be
barred under the Quiet Title Act because the Quiet Title
Act expressly precludes this relief, where -- where
Indian trust land is at issue, where the relief that's
sought is an injunction compelling relinquishment of
title without the option of paying damages --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, that's not the
only time the government takes land, right?
MR. MILLER: Well, and the Quiet Title Act,
section (d), requires in a suit under the Quiet Title
Act the plaintiff to identify his interest in the land.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Miller, I
mentioned earlier your footnote 1 in your reply brief
about whether the time of filing question for sovereign
immunity purposes is limited to diversity cases.
Are there -- you cite one case. Are there
others going the other way?
MR. MILLER: I'm not aware of others, but --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What --
MR. MILLER: -- I can't say with confidence
that there aren't any others.
One point I would make on that is just refer
you to the Florida Prepaid case from 1998, which was
about State sovereign immunity, and which explained that
a State may condition its waiver of sovereign immunity
and may change that in the course of the litigation.
And I think that's another analogy that might be
instructive here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So this suit would
come out the other way if the person objecting was just
over the border in -- in Indiana, instead of in
Michigan? Because there would be -- it could be brought
as a diversity suit.
MR. MILLER: Well, it would --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm assuming --
MR. MILLER: It would be still
be -- sovereign immunity would still apply. Sovereign
immunity would bar relief, even if the basis for
jurisdiction were diversity rather than --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even if it were a
suit against the tribe, it would still be not a
diversity action but a Federal cause of action?
MR. MILLER: Our -- our point is that the
reason it's barred is because of sovereign immunity.
When -- the time of filing in diversity cases refers to
if the citizenship of the parties changes during the
course of the litigation. That doesn't -- my
understanding is that doesn't defeat diversity. That's
the nature of that exception.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Thank you,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:08 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
56:21 32:14,25 33:2 47:10 51:14,19 31:2 35:5,13 artificial 10:9
35:15,18 36:16 20:24 27:13 39:2,4,18 45:4 asked 15:14
59:13 38:1,5,22,22 41:14,18 50:18 52:7,12 asking 24:3,3
31:22 42:23 46:7,8 ALITO 13:6,17 17:1,3 24:21 assert 23:8
47:2,12,15,15 17:23 40:10 25:1 31:22 35:20
55:12 56:3 8:3 16:9 25:1,13 30:3 31:8,15
actions 23:13 7:10 55:4,5 36:12 39:22,24
additional 47:4 allowed 19:13 applied 34:16 associated 13:25
44:10 46:19 47:2 31:13 assumes 37:4
addressed 21:7 allowing 14:4 apply 22:20 25:5 assuming 26:11
34:20 amendment 25:5 31:16 28:7,8,9 29:2
25:5,16 addresses 44:13 24:7,10,13 50:5 58:21 58:19
26:2,17 adequate 13:22 analogy 58:11 applying 13:2 assumption 5:4
28:1,18 adequately 7:11 analysis 35:21 April 1:18 attempt 35:8
35:7 adjudicate 55:6,10 area 27:1,3 attention 56:15
42:15,20 21:20 23:25 announcement arguably 11:10 Attorney 18:12
43:2 26:5,6 56:10 5:11 12:17 36:9 authority 8:17
47:12 adjudicated answer 25:9 43:18 56:2 11:21 26:16
49:13 28:4 29:10 37:19 38:2,3,6 argued 38:11 28:1 38:10
52:8 adjudicating 38:8,15 49:6 arguing 40:6 44:18 48:14
55:22 49:16 55:14 argument 1:21 authorization
administrative answering 39:20 3:2,5,8,11 4:3 29:7
19:19,20 37:12 answers 27:23 4:7 9:7 15:19 authorized
13:14 adopted 31:3 anyone's 35:12 42:10 46:1,5 9:23
44:9 48:16 anytime 39:2,23 46:11,13,15,20 aware 9:5 34:18
21:10 adverb 11:10 anyway 24:5 47:4 48:19,19 34:21 56:24
23:14,18 adversely 12:16 47:6 48:2 48:20 53:22 58:2
27:19 affect 30:10 APA 4:25 15:8 57:4,5 a(a) 21:10
29:3,5 agency 30:2 15:16 17:17 arguments a.m 1:22 4:2
bit 43:2 built 40:12 45:1 challenging 4:16 claiming 57:6
30:5 bottom 49:24 33:18,18 39:17 36:13 55:23
39:9 50:7 C 40:1 51:9 56:5,11
42:5 Bradley 41:22 C 3:1 4:1 58:10 class 45:16
44:22 Breyer 14:18,22 call 6:23,23 8:18 changed 25:9,18 classic 30:1
14:24 15:18 8:18 51:18 changes 17:15 clear 12:22 16:8
26:12 17:1 23:16,23 carry 14:3 59:5 cleared 30:17
40:24 Breyer's 39:9 11:17 14:6 Chevron 44:16 close 43:17
brief 8:21,22 19:7 31:7 Chief 4:3,9 coercive 27:10
20:6 21:7,14 44:25 46:19 14:7,13 15:5 coincides 34:9
57:11 34:24 46:23,25 54:9,13 56:13 19:4 27:17 33:11,16 35:13
57:22 57:25 58:7 28:11,21,24 39:6 58:14
briefs 12:23 34:22 51:25 56:20 57:21 31:21,22
20:18 bring 23:21 55:18 56:4 59:9 27:21
54:10,16 26:15 28:6,14 57:24 59:4 choices 25:11 company 41:10
58:22 29:2,3 35:5,18 case-specific Circuit 13:24 compelling 16:9
4:8 38:13,14 40:5 casino 27:20 circumstances compensation
19:3 50:18 45:7,7,15 53:7 7:20 33:18 20:23
53:23 brings 17:21 53:13 cite 57:25 complainant
27:19 37:22 casino's 40:12 cited 33:25 21:25
31:4,7 broadened 56:2 42:23 59:1 citizenship 34:8 6:14
36:6 broader 54:19 cede 53:19 34:9 59:5 complaint 4:23
44:2 brought 5:9 certainly 31:20 civil 19:9 21:10 15:4,6 17:25
46:17,18 15:20 18:17 36:20 21:19 23:13 21:25 24:2,2,6
20:23 23:18 certifies 18:13 claim 5:9,18 6:1 24:7,15 25:9
contemplates critical 27:5 denial 16:24 55:22 56:10
44:7 continued 25:12 d 1:24 3:3,12 4:1 denies 15:22 52:4
57:4 continues 13:10 4:7 53:22 Department distinguish
11:7 45:24 48:3 DAVID 1:7,15 56:12 doing 22:23,23
19:12 51:1 day 32:15 designed 10:21 27:5
26:24 corrected 41:12 days 8:20 14:19 determination doubt 13:24
31:2 correctly 54:12 30:13 32:3 6:5 51:8
44:5 counsel 18:25 48:2 determine 11:2 draw 26:19 27:8
23:3 26:8,11 deal 9:14 34:7 drawn 55:18
29:19 35:4 decided 34:2 determining due 48:6
59:10 deciding 51:2 deus 17:14 D'Alene 19:13
course 5:18 11:8 7:4,15 24:18 10:22 11:4 34:3,20
57:16 58:10 35:16 41:3 difference 49:19 E
59:6 45:12,13 48:9 different 17:2 E 3:1 4:1,1
4:10,13 13:12 decisions 19:10 37:2 44:22 57:22
15:24 16:9 28:18 32:17 difficult 37:21 economic 10:22
44:9 22:14 24:21,24 deed 42:13 difficulties 19:11
29:25 30:6 defects 4:12 directly 5:22,22 33:16 41:3
48:6,11 53:18 45:5,5 50:3,6 directs 56:15 effects 29:8,8
courts 14:6 25:1 defined 23:11 disallowing 53:1 48:8
court's 16:24 51:19,20 discussed 30:6 28:13 33:13
25:1 45:12 55:6 delayed 6:21 11:11 eliminate 26:20
25:9,18 25:20 delegation 44:19 disputed 21:20 else's 37:8
59:8 9:1,4 13:7 14:8 G 4:1 20:24 22:15
excuse 21:11 45:10,21,23 gaming 6:23 34:6 35:9,12
50:25 49:4,8 54:14 13:1 27:24 37:15,25 38:23
34:19,19 filing 17:25 gather 15:5 40:17,23 41:16
explain 24:15,15 57:23 59:4 18:13 34:23,24 47:3,6,13,20
explicit 22:24 first 4:15 5:8,25 generally 12:25 49:20,23 50:25
fix 51:6 26:3 39:6 42:5 19:8
48:2
31:25 14:15 17:5,13 47:14 gives 8:15 36:3 39:14,15
19:6 30:7,9,25 footnote 33:25 giving 24:22 40:5 42:12
43:12 44:3,6 57:22 38:15 40:25 grace 48:1
42:19 44:13 45:4 forbidden 56:16 43:21 47:20 Grand 2:4
4:7 53:22 facts 11:17 forever 54:7 going 6:2 7:16 16:16
falls 18:16 forms 4:22 12:5 14:2,5 ground 17:10,15
Federal 8:18 9:8 forward 14:6,15 44:13,22 49:6 Grupo 34:1
15:13,14 figure 16:17 full 8:11 9:3 government
file 5:13 30:11 fully 38:10 H
6:11,16
18:10,21 46:21 43:3 53:18 10:12 12:12,20 hands 39:14,16
40:10,13 18:1,8,22 20:10 24:3,4 34:4,20,22 31:17,24 32:4
19:15,21 20:7 24:22,23 25:2 46:19 57:13 32:5,8,13,16
48:25 22:22 23:12,13 54:18 57:14 it'll 6:15 35:2,4,19,24
24:19 28:8,13 29:2 20:18,21 27:10 J 37:13,15,18
37:22 57:24 58:8,9 injury 12:2,4,8 judged 17:24 39:1,9,13,19
31:14,20 incident 32:21 33:1 36:11 4:12 11:18 53:20,24 54:15
33:23 include 33:6 42:12 43:3,5 Justice 1:25 4:3 54:22 55:7
36:6 inconvenient 43:25 49:15 4:9,24 5:15,24 56:1,20 57:1
40:3,7 51:6 50:5,15 51:22 6:10 7:6,14,25 57:16,21 58:3
41:1 incorrect 32:19 52:9,11 55:23 8:4,13 9:6,18 58:13,19,24
42:9,25 incorrectly 57:7 56:12 57:20 9:20 10:5,8,20 59:9
46:12 4:12 7:23 11:7 12:12,19,21 K
47:9,23 Indian 4:17,21 36:10 13:4,6,17 14:7 Kagan 10:5,20
49:13 12:16 21:8 Interior 1:12
21:21,24 22:9
27:10 48:16 15:5,14,18 33:8 45:17,25
52:6 27:24 36:4 interrupt 11:23 16:5,11,22 46:13,22 49:18
53:3,10 37:8 42:15,20 investment 17:1,4,13,23 51:4,16 56:1
42:21,24 43:1 19:10 18:18,25 19:4 KEN 1:11
13:4 17:4,13
57:20 individual 9:16 ironic 17:7 25:8,17,22,25 kind 20:25 21:3
16:5,11 56:11,19,22 50:7 41:15 47:7,24 26:9,23 28:6
23:4 57:13,17,20 lines 27:8,9 51:6 53:5 28:12,23 29:1
33:18,24 landowner 35:7 litigate 8:12 54:18 29:13,20
38:8 50:8 litigation 13:8 means 47:12 mind 6:2 10:13
42:7 landowners 13:10,16 15:17 meant 22:21 11:7 12:13
56:10 7:24 18:1,8 20:11 mechanism 5:6 22:4
22:25 27:10 little 12:19 43:2 29:14 57:22 misplaced 31:4
47:4 mere 7:15 moment 15:1
Laughter 36:25 logical 46:18 7:10 8:6 29:8 52:23
41:3,5 look 19:23 26:13 58:16 52:25,25 54:2
7:4,13,21 lawsuit 6:18 42:13 44:8 midst 6:1 54:9,24
10:7,7,9,12 20:19 30:10 looked 15:4 midway 54:8 morning 4:4
31:1,23 45:9 22:22 42:9 Miller 1:24 3:3 Mottaz 22:14,16
11:12,20 46:16 47:5 looking 42:12 3:12 4:6,7,9 move 14:15 45:8
12:5,16 54:13 lost 21:12 29:10 5:7,17 6:6,10 45:13
lays 6:1 52:16 7:2,8,19 8:2,6 moving 14:15
16:1 leads 57:5 8:25 9:15,25
17:8,19 left 11:11 M 10:16,25 11:16 N
19:6 legal 37:6 machina 17:14 11:25 12:4,11 N 3:1,1 4:1
legislative 48:14 making 27:5 12:14 13:2,5 name 25:6
27:3,14 legitimacy 29:6 Malone 26:14 13:13,18 14:10 named 23:1
30:8,9 letting 22:25 27:1 14:17,20,23 narrower 56:4
32:18,22 let's 5:4,24 manual 13:14 15:15 16:2,7 narrowly 55:18
35:9,12 27:18 36:18 manufacturing 16:19,23 17:3 nature 18:6 22:1
36:2,4,5 46:2,3,3 54:4 41:19 17:12,18 18:3 30:10 39:17
37:3 lie 36:20 Match-E-Be-... 18:20 53:21,22 59:8
light 12:24 1:3 4:4 53:24 54:12,16 nearby 7:24
41:18 matter 1:20 55:2,8 56:8,24 necessarily
39:3,24 limit 35:5,17,20 34:11 40:11 57:10,18,21 43:15
40:15,18 limitation 35:22 49:9 55:5 58:2,4,18,20 necessary 13:11
51:13 59:13 59:2 needs 46:19
limitations 9:10 matters 49:7 Millett 2:2 3:6 negate 33:22
31:1 55:25 MATTHEW 19:1,2,4,23 negatively 36:3
limited 31:9 2:4 3:9 29:22 20:4,16,20 negotiated
45:8 35:10,11 39:18 mean 8:2,25 21:2,5,13,17 19:10
47:13 57:24 10:6 11:16,25 21:21,23 22:9 negotiations 6:1
limits 20:23 14:8 17:15 23:6,10,22 Nelson 2:4 3:9
52:22 line 21:9,18 18:4 30:22 24:9,14 25:10 29:21,22,24
54:14 34:10 49:24 37:14,19 38:7 25:21,23 26:2 30:24 31:14,20
officer 18:11 page 3:2 20:5 20:11 30:25 practical 40:11
34:17 26:15,21 21:6 25:13,14 31:25 50:24 precedent 33:21
36:6 oh 12:23 16:5 pages 46:23 permits 15:17 precisely 13:21
37:11,17 45:22 48:24 parcel 41:22,23 15:17 39:2,4 preclude 13:9
39:12 54:6 part 8:4 23:8 person 8:23 9:9 precludes 55:13
40:3,7 okay 12:9 21:16 41:2,14,14 17:9 36:9 37:9 55:20 57:12
41:1 23:23 25:22 partially 41:18 49:14 50:8,10 preclusion
42:9 38:25 49:19 41:18 50:10 56:4 29:17
43:6,10 55:7 59:9 particular 32:19 58:14 preemption
45:4,17 old 19:21 36:18 55:19 persons 8:15 28:16
once 17:19 particularity petard 57:3 preliminary
47:9 23:23 37:5 22:1 Petitioner 1:5 24:23 25:2
48:3,8 39:13,15,16 particularly 2:3 3:7 19:3 Prepaid 58:7
50:1,4 49:11 53:4 33:13 Petitioners 1:13 prepared 33:24
51:10 ongoing 19:8 parties 6:7 18:7 2:1 3:4,13 4:8 press 25:12
52:6 open 45:7 18:21 59:5 53:23 presumably
operate 45:15 parts 5:7 33:3 place 16:4 40:19 36:2
36:16 27:7 51:23 5:17,20 7:9 8:7 prevail 27:13
37:4 opportunity passed 14:9 20:15 22:2,4,7 40:12 51:1
oral 1:20 3:2,5,8 9:13,16 14:8 plaintiffs 5:14 14:14
30:25 16:12,13 17:20 32:16,25 33:6 29:25 primary 42:20
48:7,17 56:17 40:11 52:10 point 8:9 10:5 principle 34:16
organization 16:8 30:10 16:2 28:17 principles 20:3
28:4,7 outside 9:4 3:6 19:2 45:23 47:8,10 46:16
34:15 pay 31:11 51:2 54:19,24 58:6 private 9:16
paying 57:15 points 55:15 45:2 48:7
P 4:1 14:21 15:16 1:4 4:5 promote 10:22
putting 33:8 quieting 23:15 10:18 13:9,13 repository 36:19
17:8 24:1 QTA 17:6,9,13 regulatory 42:5,6 44:11
30:4,5 17:22 25:20 R 11:21 requires 7:23
33:1 26:15 R 4:1 reliance 17:6 49:14 57:19
49:15 qualification raise 9:8 28:15 relief 12:1 14:11 reserve 18:24
52:9 55:1 raised 28:15 16:7,18 17:11 reserved 34:4
question 5:8 Rapids 2:4 17:16,17,20 reserves 45:5
55:1 16:3 28:17,24 24:2,6 20:21,23,24,25 17:18 20:20
51:17 43:2,23 44:22 56:3 42:1,23 52:7,8 54:1,5
44:23 46:2,10 reason 14:1 29:4 55:13 56:15,17 Respondents
18:18,19 53:25 54:20 52:4,20 59:3 56:18 restate 52:18
33:3,3 55:10,12,14 reasonable relinquishment restricted 22:20
43:3,21 questions 15:5 reasons 20:4 rely 43:21 54:17
52:14,15 28:13 53:18 48:15 56:8 relying 17:16 result 37:12
36:7 23:13 25:4,15 recognized remaining 53:21 reverses 15:23
25:23 26:2,17 24:25 55:17 remains 47:15 reversing 4:13
30:22 35:7,15 38:1,5 refer 10:18 58:6 remedies 55:20 9:23,23 13:23
39:4 38:22 39:10,18 reference 43:25 remedy 20:18 14:4 15:8
40:1 46:7,8 refers 59:4 remember 29:4 16:19 23:18
57:24 48:22 49:12,13 regard 31:10 removing 13:23 31:6 48:12,21
52:20 53:13 Register 48:16 4:21 42:15,21 right 8:5,6 10:18
9:11 12:7,8 55:21 56:3 5:22 48:13 15:15,18 16:25
28:25 57:7,11,11,18 regulation 8:10 repeated 49:18 18:1,19 19:16
22:1 50:11 52:3 56:15 57:19 soon 43:15 54:9 started 47:5
54:6 see 20:2 24:14 sorry 12:3 21:13 state 5:20 9:17
28:11,11 Scalia 6:10 7:6 42:21 44:6 26:10 37:17,19 11:21 28:13
32:5,8 7:14,25 8:4 seek 16:19 20:1 52:15 30:23 41:3
41:20 11:8 12:7,12 24:18,20 35:14 sort 29:16 44:24 58:8,9
18:18 19:18,24 52:12 Sotomayor 4:24 statement 10:3
49:2 20:5,13,17,20 seeking 8:7,7 5:15,24 9:18 States 1:1,21
51:9,21 20:25 21:3,5 15:20 23:8 12:19 26:8,11 4:15 6:2 18:11
53:7 21:11,16 22:19 25:19 26:5 31:24 32:4,5,8 18:16 19:12,14
23:2,7 25:8,17 32:9,10,10,17 32:13,16 35:4 19:17 20:10
12:3 40:4,8 47:17 11:4 41:20 49:10,16 56:11,19
18:25 51:5,11,15 send 16:15 50:2,7,21 status 40:21
28:11,21 52:19 53:4,11 sense 10:17,17 sought 14:9,11 41:4 42:11
29:11,19 57:1,16 24:10 16:1,7 20:9,14 statute 5:3 10:15
34:23 Scalia's 10:8 sentence 22:19 20:15 56:17 10:16,20,21
47:19,24 48:19 56:9,14 57:14 20:8 22:11
56:20 scenario 6:9 separate 28:16 South 48:10,10 26:12 31:1
58:3,13 scene 17:14 42:11 44:3 sovereign 4:16 52:2 54:11
59:9 scheme 55:19,21 serve 11:3 10:2 17:24 55:24 56:16
52:14 56:14 shed 32:11 33:11,16,19 stop 23:24 24:18
8:15 9:2,10,11 short 54:18 sovereignty 19:7 strip 19:6,7,14
side 34:10 specific 20:24 stronger 46:20
47:1 56:1 8:9 sir 36:24 52:10 59:13
19:21 5:18,19 6:7 9:12,18 51:7 stand 19:22 21:17 22:12
21:21 7:22 21:19,22 Solicitor 1:24 standing 4:18 subsequently
22:13 21:24 22:3,6,6 34:23 6:4,9,15 9:1,12 30:9
26:3,3 22:18,19 23:3 somebody 5:13 9:15,17 10:4,5 suddenly 17:14
23:5,7,9,10,25 11:14 18:11 15:1 35:21 sue 17:9 28:25
33:17 43:4,6,24 44:9 51:20 36:8,12 39:5 50:10,11,16
47:5 44:20 55:13 Somebody's 9:9 42:16,22 57:7
48:6 46:2 48:21 38:12 39:21,21 32:11,25 33:2 6:3,3,9 8:17
taken 5:9 13:3 43:23 47:17 35:15 38:1,5 12:18 13:3
15:20 17:19 28:2 55:9 56:3,8 42:6,11 46:4,6 28:15 40:16,18
20:2 30:8 31:6 58:11 46:7,8,9,15 41:6 44:10,12
21:3,4,7 32:22,22 33:4 thinking 15:1 47:1,3,6,12,13 53:4,6,12
22:3,4,7 37:4,4,6,7,12 38:12,13 47:16 48:22,23 56:23 58:25
28:5,9 37:16,23 38:21 thinks 10:13,21 48:24 49:1,4 tribes 10:24
33:11,16 39:24 40:15 third 51:23 49:12,13,20,21 tribe's 8:21 10:3
43:13,14 44:2 thought 8:21 49:22,23 50:15 tried 28:14
38:3 44:3,5 45:9 14:14 19:20 50:17,18,23 true 7:19,20
42:20 46:21 48:25 25:8,17 36:14 51:19 52:8,9 8:13,24
49:1,20 57:8 36:16 37:18 52:11,13,20 trust 4:17 5:2,10
47:13 takes 12:13 41:13,15 48:19 53:13 54:3,4 5:12 6:12,17
48:21 35:12 37:25 49:3 54:25 55:11,12 7:4,13,16 13:3
52:25,25 39:3,25 49:11 three 27:9 55:21,22 56:3 13:15 15:7,10
54:24 53:25 57:17 tied 10:10 56:5,11,18 15:16,21 16:1
57:19 talking 17:11 time 16:19 17:24 57:6,7,8,11,11 17:19,21 22:20
37:5 42:18 17:25 18:24 57:15,18,19 24:17 30:8
26:5,15 tell 4:24 25:18 34:18,21 44:24 53:4 32:23 35:10
51:19,22 32:8,14 35:3 53:19 54:10 tort 18:12 37:8 38:21,24
27:18 terms 9:21 timely 4:25 5:16 51:11 41:4 42:11
51:16 49:14 times 49:8 touch 22:25 43:13,14 44:2
test 12:15 36:11 timing 5:8 17:5 track 30:13 44:4,6 45:9
40:21 38:19 40:8 11:24 12:9,13 traditional try 52:3
57:9 53:20 59:9 13:8 14:8 15:2 51:20 trying 9:14 12:1
39:1,8 49:11 19:16,25 20:9 16:3,20,21 turned 26:1
50:8 20:12,14,14,22 30:19 50:22 turning 54:3
things 13:19 23:13,14,15,19 54:14 13:19 20:4
51:25 use 6:13,14,18 16:23 42:10 36:15 3
56:8 6:22 7:3,21,24 51:18 52:4 3 6:17,21,25
45:16
12:22 Washington 30:13 32:3
44:4,6,10,10 15:3 48:5 years 6:17,21,25 30-day 5:11 8:10
36:4 8:14 9:1,5,13
44:25 14:21 30:12,22
26:6 37:6 way 12:7,10 30:24 31:3,12
31:14,16,17,25
26:3 35:24 48:17
31 24:3
14:25 v 1:6,14 4:5 48:9 52:21 53:14 38 24:3
42:22 48:10 55:17 54:1 58:1,14
54:12 valid 4:25 28:1 Z
40:15,22 vest 41:5 12:14,17 36:9 4 3:4 53:21
59:7 viable 37:6 36:10 50:5
43:25 44:1,9
view 48:21 41:19
violation 4:22 17:11 22:23,24 1 34:24 57:22
1:22 4:2
50:21,25 vires 32:20 39:7 35:9,11 43:10 5 4:21 5:18,20
1:5 2:3
4:4 19:3
1:13 2:1
void 41:4 whatsoever 3:4,13 4:8 6
54:7,10 12 50:17 52:24 40:5 45:9
6:2 18:11 win 22:11 12-year 50:24
19:12,14 waive 20:7 window 8:15 49:24 50:11,19
20:10 9:24 30:12,23
23:14 30:25 31:13,15
58:9 1998 58:7 6a 20:6
32:11 31:16
51:13 waives 28:7 words 11:24 2 6-year 31:1
56:11,19 waiving 23:12 23:24 46:25 2a 21:6,14
2012 1:18
1:18
31:10 32:15 18:9 20:3 42:5 56:10
wanted 13:5 19:16 22:16 29 3:10
