IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT :
BUSINESS, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 11-393
v. :
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS, SECRETARY OF :
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
and
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
FLORIDA, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 11-400
v. :
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND :
HUMAN SERVICES, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 28, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:19 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
Petitioners.
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
Respondents.
H. BARTOW FARR, III, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; as
Court-appointed amicus curiae.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 4
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 28
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
H. BARTOW FARR, III, ESQ.
As the Court-appointed amicus curiae 56
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 81
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:19 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will continue
argument this morning in Case Number 11-393, National
Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius, and Case
11-400, Florida v. The Department of HHS.
Mr. Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
If the individual mandate is
unconstitutional, then the rest of the Act cannot stand.
As Congress found and the Federal Government concedes,
the community-rating and guaranteed-issue provisions of
the Act cannot stand without the individual mandate.
Congress found that the individual mandate was essential
to their operation.
And not only can guaranteed issue and
community rating not stand, not operate in the manner
that Congress intended, they would actually counteract
Congress's basic goal of providing patient protection
but also affordable care.
You can -- if you do not have the individual
mandate to force people into the market, then community
rating and guaranteed issue will cause the cost of
premiums to skyrocket. We can debate the order of
magnitude of that, but we can't debate that the
direction will be upward. We also can't debate --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, that may well
be true. The economists are going back and forth on
that issue, and the figures vary from up 10 percent to
up 30. We're not in the habit of doing the legislative
findings.
What we do know is that for those States
that found prices increasing, that they found various
solutions to that. In one instance -- and we might or
may not say that it's unconstitutional -- Massachusetts
passed the mandatory coverage provision. But others
adjusted some of the other provisions.
Why shouldn't we let Congress do that, if in
fact the economists prove -- some of the economists
prove right that prices will spiral? What's wrong with
leaving it to -- in the hands of the people who should
be fixing this, not us?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, a couple of questions --
a couple of responses, Justice Sotomayor. First of all,
I think that it's very relevant here that Congress had
before it as examples some of the States that had tried
to impose guaranteed issue and community rating, and did
not impose an individual mandate. And Congress rejected
that model. So, your question is quite right in saying
that it's not impossible to have guaranteed issue and
community rating without an individual mandate. But
it's a model that Congress looked at and specifically
rejected.
And then, of course, there's Congress's own
finding, and their finding, of course -- this is finding
(i), which is 43a of the Government's brief, in the
appendix. Congress specifically found that having the
individual mandate is essential to the operation of
guaranteed issue and community rating.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's all it said it
was essential to. I mean, I'm looking at it. The
exchanges. The State exchanges are information-
gathering facilities that tell insurers what the various
policies actually mean. And that has proven to be a
cost saver in many of the States who have tried it. So,
why should we be striking down a cost saver --
MR. CLEMENT: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- when, if what your
argument is -- was that Congress was concerned about
costs rising?
MR. CLEMENT: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why should we assume
they wouldn't have passed an information --
MR. CLEMENT: I think a couple of things.
One, you get -- I mean, I would think you'd sort of have
to take the bitter with the sweet. And if Congress --
if we're going to look at Congress's goal of providing
patient protection but also affordable care, we can't --
I don't think it works to just take the things that save
money and cut out the things that are going to make
premiums more expensive. But at a minimum --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think on the bottom
line, is why don't we let Congress fix it?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, let me answer the bottom
line question, which is, no matter what you do in this
case, at some point there's going to be -- if you strike
down the mandate, there's going to be something for
Congress to do. The question is really what task do you
want to give Congress? Do you want to give Congress the
task of fixing the statute after something has been
taken out, especially a provision at the heart, or do
you want to give Congress the task of fixing health
care? And I think it would be better in this
situation --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We're not taking -- if
we strike down one provision, we're not taking that
power away from Congress. Congress could look at it
without the mandatory coverage provision and say this
model doesn't work; let's start from the beginning. Or
it could choose to fix what it has. We're not declaring
-- one portion doesn't force Congress into any path.
MR. CLEMENT: And, of course, that's right,
Justice Sotomayor, and no matter what you do here,
Congress will have the options available. So, if you --
if you strike down only the individual mandate, Congress
could say the next day, well, that's the last thing we
ever wanted to do so we are going to strike down the
rest of the statute immediately and then try to fix the
problem. So, whatever you do, Congress is going to have
options. The question is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: There's such a thing as
legislative inertia, isn't there?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, that's exactly --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean --
MR. CLEMENT: -- what I was going to say,
Justice Scalia, which is I think the question for this
Court is -- we all recognize there's legislative
inertia. And then the question is what's the best
result in light of that reality?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You are not suggesting
that we should take on more power to the Court?
MR. CLEMENT: No, I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because Congress would
choose to take one path rather than another. That's
sort of taking onto the Court more power than one, I
think, would want.
MR. CLEMENT: And I agree. We're simply
asking this Court to take on, straight on, the idea of
the basic remedial inquiry into severability which looks
to the intent of the Congress --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, I wanted to ask you
about that. Why do we look to the -- are you sure we
look to the intent of the Congress? I thought that, you
know, sometimes Congress says that these provisions will
-- all the provisions of this Act will be severable, and
we ignore that when the Act really won't work, when the
remaining provisions just won't work. Now, how can you
square that reality with the proposition that what we're
looking for here is what would this Congress have
wanted?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, two responses,
Justice Scalia: We can look at this Court's cases on
severability, and they all formulate the test a little
bit differently.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, they sure do.
MR. CLEMENT: But every one of them talks
about congressional intent. But here's the -- there's
the other answer --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's true, but is it
right?
MR. CLEMENT: It is right. And here's how I
would answer your question, which is, when Congress
includes a severability clause, it's addressing the
issue in the abstract. It doesn't say, no matter which
provisions you strike down, we absolutely, positively
want what's left.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. The consequence
of your proposition, would Congress have enacted it
without this provision, okay, that's the consequence.
That would mean that if we struck down nothing in this
legislation but the -- what is it called -- the "Corn
Husker kickback," okay, we find that to violate the
constitutional proscription of venality, okay?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: When we strike that down,
it's clear that Congress would not have passed it
without that. It was -- it was the means of getting the
last necessary vote in the Senate. And you're telling
us that the whole statute would fall because the
Cornhusker kickback is bad. That can't be right.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, I think
it can be, which is to say that the basic proposition,
that it's congressional intent that governs. Now,
everybody on this Court has a slightly different way of
divining legislative intent. And I would suggest the
one common ground among every member of this Court, as I
understand it, is you start with the text. Everybody
can agree with that.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, Mr. Clement, let's start
with the text. And you suggest, and I think that there
is -- this is right, that there is a textual basis for
saying that the guarantee-issue and the community-rating
provisions are tied to the mandate. And you -- you
pointed to where that was in the findings.
Is there a textual basis for anything else?
Because I've been unable to find one. It seems to me
that if you look at the text, the sharp dividing line is
between guarantee issue, community ratings, on the one
hand; everything else, on the other.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kagan, I'd be
delighted to take you through my view of the text and
why there are other things that have to fall.
The first place I'd ask you to look is
Finding (J), which is on the same page, 43a. And as I
read that, that's a finding that the individual mandate
is essential to the operation of the exchanges.
But there are other links between guaranteed
issue and community rating and the exchanges. And
there, I think, it's just the way that the exchanges are
supposed to work, and the text makes this clear, is
they're supposed to provide a market where people can
compare community-rated insurance. That's what makes
the exchanges function.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Although the exchanges
function perfectly well in Utah, where there is no
mandate. They function differently, but they function.
And the question is always, does Congress want half a
loaf? Is half a loaf better than no loaf? And on
something like the exchanges, it seems to me a perfect
example where half a loaf is better than no loaf. The
exchanges will do something. They won't do everything
that Congress envisioned.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kagan, I think
there are situations where half a loaf is actually
worse, and I want to address that. But before I -- more
broadly -- but before I do that, if I can stick with
just the exchanges.
I do think the question that this Court is
supposed to ask is not just whether they can limp along
and they can operate independently, but whether they
operate in the manner that Congress intended. And
that's where I think the exchanges really fall down,
because the vision of the exchanges was that if you got
out of this current situation where health insurance is
basically individualized priced based on individualized
underwriting and you provide community rating, then it's
going to be very easy for people to see, okay, well,
this is a silver policy, and this is a bronze policy,
and this is a gold policy. And we can -- you know, I
can just pick which insurer provides what I think is
going to be the best service based on those comparable
provisions.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Clement, you just said
something which you say a lot in your brief. You say
the question is the manner in which it would have
operated. And I think that that's not consistent with
our cases. And I guess the best example would be
Booker, where we decided not to sever provisions,
notwithstanding that the sentencing guidelines clearly
operate in a different manner now than they did when
Congress passed them. They operate as advisory rather
than mandatory.
MR. CLEMENT: But, Justice Kagan, I mean, I
actually think Booker supports our point as well,
because there are two aspects of the remedial holding of
Booker. And the first part of it, which I think
actually very much supports our point is where the
majority rejects the approach of the dissent, which
actually would have required nothing in the statute to
have been struck, not a single word.
But, nonetheless, this Court said, boy, if
you do that, then all of the sentencing is basically
going to be done by a combination of the juries and the
prosecutors, and the judges are going to be cut out.
And the Court said the one thing we know is that's not
the manner in which Congress thought that this should
operate.
Now, later they make a different judgment
about the -- which particular provisions to cut out.
But I do think Booker is consistent with this way of
looking at it. It's certainly consistent with Brock,
the opinion that we rely on, because there the Court
only reached that part of the opinion after they had
already found that the must-hire provision operated
functionally independent from the legislative veto.
So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Clement, there are so
many things in this Act that are unquestionably okay. I
think you would concede that reauthorizing -- what is it
-- the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, changes to
the Black Lung benefits. Why make Congress redo those?
I mean, it's a question of whether we say everything you
did is no good, now start from scratch, or to say, yes,
there are many things in here that have nothing to do,
frankly, with the affordable health care, and there are
some that we think it's better to let Congress to decide
whether it wants them in or out.
So, why should we say it's a choice between
a wrecking operation, which is what you are requesting,
or a salvage job? And the more conservative approach
would be salvage rather than throwing out everything.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, two
kinds of responses to that: One, I do think there are
some provisions that I would identify as being at the
periphery of this statute, and I'll admit that the case
for severing those is perhaps the strongest.
But I do think it's fundamentally different,
because if we were in here arguing that some provision
on the periphery of the statute, like the Biosimilars
Act or some of the provisions that you've mentioned, was
unconstitutional, I think you'd strike it down and you
wouldn't even think hard about severability.
What makes this different is that the
provisions that have constitutional difficulties or are
tied at the hip to those provisions that have the
constitutional difficulty are the very heart of this
Act. And then if you look at how they are textually
interconnected with the exchanges, which are then
connected to the tax credits, which are also connected
to the employer mandates, which is also connected to
some of the revenue offsets, which is also connected to
Medicaid, if you follow that through what you end up
with at the end of that process is just sort of a hollow
shell. And at that point, I think there is a strong
argument for not -- I mean, we can't possibly think that
Congress would have passed that hollow shell without the
heart of the Act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it would
have -- it would have passed parts of the hollow shell.
I mean, a lot of this is reauthorization of
appropriations that have been reauthorized for the
previous 5 or 10 years, and it was just more convenient
for Congress to throw it in, in the middle of the
2700 pages than to do it separately. I mean, can you
really suggest -- I mean, they cite the Black Lung
Benefits Act, and those have nothing to do with any of
the things we're talking about.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, you
know, they tried to make them germane. But I'm not here
to tell you that, you know -- some of their -- surely,
there are provisions that are just looking for the next
legislative vehicle that's going to make it across the
finish line, and somebody's going to attach it to
anything that's moving. I mean, I'll admit that.
But the question is -- when everything else
from the center of the Act is interconnected and has to
go, if you follow me that far, then the question is
would you keep this hollowed-out shell?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but it's not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I'm still not sure,
what is the test -- and this was a colloquy you had with
Justice Scalia with the Cornhusker hypothetical. I need
to know what standard you're asking me to apply. Is it
whether as a rational matter the separate parts could
still function, or does it focus on the intent of the
Congress?
If you -- suppose you had party A wants
proposal number 1; party B wants proposal number 2.
Completely unrelated. One is airline rates; the other
is milk regulation. And we -- and they decide them
together. The procedural rules are these have to be
voted on as one. They are both passed. Then one is
declared unconstitutional. The other can operate
completely independently. Now, we know that Congress
would not have intended to pass one without the other.
Is that the end of it, or is there some different test?
Because we don't want to go into legislative history,
that's intrusive, so we ask whether or not an objective
-- as an objective rational matter, one could function
without -- I still don't know what the test is that
we're supposed to apply. And this is the same question
as Justice Scalia asked. Could you give me some help on
that?
MR. CLEMENT: Sure. Justice Kennedy, the
reality is I think this Court's opinions have at various
times applied both strains of the analysis.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And which one -- and what
test do you suggest that we follow if we want to clarify
our jurisprudence?
MR. CLEMENT: I'm -- I'm a big believer in
objective tests, Justice Kennedy. I'd be perfectly
happy with you to apply a more textually based objective
approach. I think there are certain Justices that are
more inclined to take more of a peek at legislative
history, and I think if you look at the legislative
history of this, it would only fortify the conclusion
that you would reach from a very objective textual
inquiry. But I am happy to focus the Court on the
objective textual inquiry --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't
understand --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that objective test is
what?
MR. CLEMENT: It is whether the statute can
operate in the manner that Congress -- that Congress
intended. And --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No statute can do that,
because once we chop off a piece of it, by definition,
it's not the statute Congress passed. So, it has to be
something more than that.
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Sotomayor, every one
of your cases, if you have a formulation for
severability, if you interpret it woodenly, it becomes
tautological. And Justice Blackmun addressed this in
footnote 7 of the Brock opinion that we rely on, where
he says: Of course, it's not just -- you know, it
doesn't operate exactly in the manner because it doesn't
have all the pieces, but you still make an inquiry as to
whether -- I mean, when Congress links two provisions
together and one really won't work without the other --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what is wrong with
the presumption that our law says, which is we presume
that Congress would want to sever? Wouldn't that be the
simplest, most objective test? Going past what
Justice Scalia says we have done, okay, get rid of
legislative intent altogether, which some of our
colleagues in other contexts have promoted, and just
say: Unless Congress tells us directly it's not
severable, we shouldn't sever. We should let them fix
their problems.
You still haven't asked -- answered me why
in a democracy structured like ours, where each branch
does different things, why we should involve the Court
in making the legislative judgment?
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Sotomayor, let me try
to answer the specific question and then answer the big
picture question. The specific question is -- I mean,
you could do that. You could adopt a new rule now that
basically says, look, we've sever --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's not a new rule. We
presume. We've rebutted the presumption in some
cases --
MR. CLEMENT: Right. But --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- but some would call
that judicial action.
MR. CLEMENT: I think in fairness, though,
Justice Sotomayor, to get to the point you're wanting to
get to, you'd have to ratchet up that presumption a
couple of ticks on the scale, but -- and because the one
thing --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And what's wrong with
that?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, one thing that's wrong
with that, which is still at a smaller level, is that's
inconsistent with virtually every statement in every one
of your severability opinions, which all talk about
congressional intent.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, it's not inconsistent
with our practice, right, Mr. Clement? I mean, you have
to go back decades and decades and decades, and I'm not
sure even then you could find a piece of legislation
that we refused to sever for this reason.
MR. CLEMENT: I don't think that's right,
Justice Kagan. I mean, I think there are more recent
examples. A great example I think, which sort of proves
and maybe is a segue to get to my broader point, is a
case that involves a State statute, not a Federal
statute, but I don't think anything turns on that, is
Randall v. Sorrell, where this Court struck down various
provisions of the Vermont campaign finance law. But
there were other contribution provisions that were not
touched by the theory that the Court used to strike down
the contribution limits. But this Court at the end of
the opinion said, you know, there's no way to think that
the Vermont legislator would have wanted these handful
of provisions there on the contribution side. So, we'll
strike down the whole thing.
And if I could make the broader point, I
mean, I think the reason it makes sense in a democracy
with separation of powers to in some cases sever the
whole thing is because sometimes a half a loaf is worse.
And a great example, if I dare say so, is Buckley. In
Buckley this Court looked at a statute that tried to, in
a coherent way, strike down limits on contributions and
closely related expenditures.
This Court struck down the ban on
expenditures, left the contribution ban in place, and
for four decades Congress has tried to fix what's left
of the statute, largely unsuccessfully; whereas it would
have I think worked much better from a democratic and
separation of powers standpoint if the Court would have
said: Look, expenditures are -- you can't limit
expenditures under the Constitution. The contribution
provision is joined at the hip. Give Congress a chance
to actually fix the problem, not just --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Clement --
JUSTICE BREYER: Can I ask you one question,
which is a practical question? I take as a given your
answer to Justice Kennedy. You're saying let's look at
it objectively and say would Congress have intended
this, okay? This is the mandate in the community --
this is Titles I and II, the mandate, the community,
pre-existing condition, okay? Here's the rest of it,
you know, and when I look through the rest of it, I have
all kinds of stuff in there. And I haven't read every
word of that, I promise. All right.
I mean, as you pointed out, there's biosimilarity,
there's breast feeding, there's promoting nurses and
doctors to serve underserved areas, there's the CLASS
Act, et cetera.
What do you suggest we do? I mean, should
we appoint a special master with an instruction? Should
we go back to the district court? You haven't argued
most of these. As I hear you now, you're pretty close
to the SG. I mean, you'd like it all struck down, but
if we are supposed to apply the objective test, I don't
know if you differ very much.
So, what do you propose that we do other
than spend a year reading all this and have you argue
all of it?
MR. CLEMENT: Right. What I would propose
is the following, Justice Breyer, is you follow the
argument this far and then you ask yourself whether what
you have left is a hollowed-out shell or whether you
have --
JUSTICE BREYER: I would say the Breast
Feeding Act, the -- getting doctors to serve underserved
areas, the biosimilar thing and drug regulation, the
CLASS Act -- those have nothing to do with the stuff
that we've been talking about yesterday and the day
before, okay?
So, if you tell me at that level, I'd say,
sure, they have nothing to do with it; they could stand
on their own. The Indian thing, about helping the
underserved Native Americans -- all that stuff has
nothing to do with it. Black lung disease, nothing to
do with it. Okay?
So, that's -- you know what you have there?
A total off-the-cuff impression. So, that's why I'm
asking you what should I do?
MR. CLEMENT: What you should do is let me
say the following, which is follow me this far, which is
the mandatory, individual mandate is tied, as the
Government suggests, to guaranteed issue and community
rating, but the individual mandate, guaranteed issue,
and community rating together are the heart of this Act.
They -- they're what make the exchanges work.
The exchanges in turn are critical to the
tax credits, because the amount of the tax credit is key
to the amount of the policy price on the exchange. The
exchanges are also key to the employer mandate, because
the employer mandate becomes imposed on an employer if
one of the employees gets insurance on the exchanges.
But it doesn't stop there. Look at the
Medicare provision for DSH hospitals, okay? These are
hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of the
needy. This isn't in Title I. It's in the other part
that you had in your other hand. But it doesn't work
without the mandate, community rating, and guaranteed
issue.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, can I ask you this,
Mr. Clement?
MR. CLEMENT: Sure.
JUSTICE ALITO: If -- what would your
fallback position be if we don't accept the proposition
that if the mandate is declared unconstitutional, the
rest of the Act, every single provision, has to fall?
Other proposed -- other dispositions have been proposed.
There's the Solicitor General's disposition, the
recommended disposition to strike down the
guaranteed-issue and community-rating provisions. One
of the -- one amicus says strike down all of Title I;
another says strike down all of Title I and Title II.
What -- what would you suggest?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I -- I think what I
would suggest, Justice Alito -- I don't want to be
unresponsive -- is that you sort of follow the argument
through and figure out what in the core of the Act
falls. And then I guess my fallback would be if what's
left is a hollowed-out shell, you could just leave that
standing.
If you want a sort of practical answer, I
mean, I do think you could just -- you know, you could
use Justice Breyer's off-the-cuff as a starting point
and basically say, you know, Title I and a handful of
related provisions that are very closely related to that
are really the heart of the Act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that
doesn't --
MR. CLEMENT: The bigger volume in his other
hand -- I mean, you could strike one and leave the
other, but at a certain point -- I'm sorry,
Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish your certain
point.
MR. CLEMENT: At a certain point, I just
think that, you know, the better answer might be to say
we've struck the heart of this Act; let's just give
Congress a clean slate. If it's so easy to have that
other big volume get re-enacted, they can do it in a
couple of days. It won't be a big deal. If it's not,
because it's very --
(Laughter.)
MR. CLEMENT: Well, but -- I mean, you can
laugh at me if you want, but the point is I rather
suspect that it won't be easy. Because I rather suspect
that if you actually dug into that, there'd be something
that was quite controversial in there and couldn't be
passed quickly --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the reality --
MR. CLEMENT: -- and that's our whole point.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The reality of the
passage -- I mean, this was a piece of legislation
which, there was -- had to be a concerted effort to
gather enough votes so that it could be passed. And I
suspect with a lot of these miscellaneous provisions
that Justice Breyer was talking about, that was the
price of a vote: Put in the Indian health care
provision and I will vote for the other 2700 pages. Put
in the black lung provision, and I'll go along with it.
That's why all -- many of these provisions,
I think, were put in, not because they were
unobjectionable. So, presumably, what Congress would
have done is they wouldn't have been able to put
together, cobble together the votes to get it through.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, maybe that's right,
Mr. Chief Justice. And I don't want to, I mean, spend
all my time on -- fighting over the periphery, because I
do think there are some provisions that I think you
would make, as an exercise of your own judgment, the
judgment that once you've gotten rid of the core
provisions of this Act, that you would then decide to
let the periphery fall with it.
But if you want to keep the periphery,
that's fine. What I think is important, though, as to
the core provisions of the Act, which aren't just the
mandate, community rating, and guaranteed issue, but
include the exchanges, the tax credit, Medicare, and
Medicaid -- as to all of that, I think you do want to
strike it all down to avoid a redux of Buckley.
If I could reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Clement.
Mr. Kneedler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. KNEEDLER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
There should be no occasion for the Court in
this case to consider issues of severability, because,
as we argue, the -- the minimum coverage provision is
fully consistent with Article I of the Constitution.
But if the Court were to conclude otherwise, it should
reject Petitioners' sweeping proposition that the entire
Act must fall if this one provision is held
unconstitutional.
As an initial matter, we believe the Court
should not even consider that question. The vast
majority of the provisions of this Act do not even apply
to the Petitioners, but instead apply to millions of
citizens and businesses who are not before the Court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How does your
proposal actually work? Your idea is that, well, they
can take care of it themselves later. I mean, do you
contemplate them bringing litigation and saying -- I
guess the insurers would be the most obvious ones --
without -- without the mandate, the whole thing falls
apart, and we're going to bear a greater cost, and so
the rest of the law should be struck down.
And that's a whole other line of litigation?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- I think the
continuing validity of any particular provision would
arise in litigation that would otherwise arise under
that provision by parties who are actually --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But what cause of
action is it? I've never heard of a severability cause
of action.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, in the first place, I
don't -- the point isn't that there has to be an
affirmative cause of action to decide this. You
could -- for example, to use the Medicare reimbursement
issues, one of the things this Act does is change
Medicare reimbursement rates. Well, the place where
someone adjudicates the validity of Medicare
reimbursement rates is through the special statutory
review procedure for that.
And the same thing is true of the
Anti-Injunction Act --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Kneedler, there are
some provisions which nobody would have standing to
challenge. If the provision is simply an expenditure of
Federal money, it doesn't hurt anybody except the
taxpayer, but the taxpayer doesn't have standing. That
-- that just continues. Even though it is -- it should
-- it is so closely allied to what's been struck down
that it ought to go as well. But, nonetheless, that has
to continue because there's nobody in the world that can
challenge it.
Can that possibly be the law?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think that proves our
point, Justice Scalia. This Court has repeatedly said
that just because there's -- no one may have standing to
challenge -- and particularly like tax credits or taxes
which are challenged only after going through the
Anti-Injunction Act, just because no one has standing
doesn't mean someone must.
But beyond that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But those are provisions
that have been legitimately enacted. The whole issue
here is whether these related provisions have been
legitimately enacted or whether they are so closely
allied to one that has been held to be unconstitutional
that they also have not been legitimately enacted.
You can't compare that to -- to cases
dealing with a statute that nobody denies is -- is
constitutional.
MR. KNEEDLER: This case is directly
parallel to the Printz case, in our view. In that case,
the Court struck down several provisions of the Brady
Act but went on to say it had no business addressing the
severability of other provisions that did not apply to
the people before the Court.
JUSTICE BREYER: But what he's thinking --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But is that a matter
of --
JUSTICE BREYER: What he's thinking of is
this: I think Justice Scalia is thinking, I suspect, of
-- imagine a tax which says this tax, amount Y, goes to
purpose X, which will pay for half of purpose X. The
other half will come from the exchanges somehow. That
second half is unconstitutional. Purpose X can't
possibly be carried out now with only half the money.
Does the government just sit there
collecting half the money forever because nobody can
ever challenge it? You see, there -- if it were
inextricably connected, is it enough to say, well, we
won't consider that because maybe somebody else could
bring that case and then there is no one else?
I mean, is that --
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, we think that is the
proper way to proceed. Severability --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler, it's not a
choice between someone else bringing the case and a law
staying in place. And what we're really talking about,
as Justice Sotomayor started this discussion, is who is
the proper party to take out what isn't infected by the
Court's holding? With all these provisions where there
may be no standing, one institution clearly does have
standing, and that's Congress.
And if Congress doesn't want the provisions
that are not infected to stand, Congress can take care
of it.
It's a question of which side -- should the
Court say we're going to wreck the whole thing, or
should the Court leave it to Congress?
MR. KNEEDLER: We think the Court should
leave it to Congress for two reasons. One is the point
I'm making now about justiciability, or whether the
Court can properly consider it at all. And the second
is we think only a few provisions are inseverable from
the minimum coverage provision.
I just would like to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Before you go,
Mr. Kneedler, I'd like your answer to Justice Breyer's
question.
I think you were interrupted --
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- before you had a
chance --
MR. KNEEDLER: No, we believe that in that
case, the tax -- the tax provision should not be struck
down. In the first place, the Anti-Injunction Act would
bar a direct suit to challenge it. And it would be very
strange to allow a tax to be struck down on the basis of
a severability analysis. Severability arises in a case
only where it's necessary to consider what relief a
party before the Court should get. The only party --
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that there was a --
suppose there was a non-severability provision in -- in
this Act. If one provision were to be held
unconstitutional, then every single -- someone would
have to bring a separate lawsuit challenging every
single other provision in the Act and say, well, one
fell and the Congress said it's all -- it's -- it's a
package, it can't be separated.
That's your position?
MR. KNEEDLER: The fact that -- that such a
clause might make it easy doesn't change the point.
Article III jurisdictional problems apply to easy
questions as well as hard questions. If I could just --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But there's no Article III
jurisdictional problem in Justice Alito's hypothetical,
that this is a remedial exercise of the Court's power to
explain the consequences of its judgment in this case.
MR. KNEEDLER: But this Court had said that
one has to have standing for every degree of relief that
is sought. That was in Davis. That was Los
Angeles v. Lyons. That's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Kneedler --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- Daimler/Chrysler.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- don't you think it's
unrealistic to say leave it to Congress, as though
you're sending it back to Congress for Congress to
consider it dispassionately, on balance, should we have
this provision or should we not have provision? That's
not what it's going to be. It's going to be these
provisions are in effect, even though you -- a lot of
you never wanted them to be in effect and you only voted
for them because you wanted to get the heart of the --
of the Act, which has now been cut out. But,
nonetheless, these provisions are the law, and you have
to get the votes to overturn them.
That's an enormously different question from
whether you get the votes initially to put them into the
law.
What -- there is no way that this Court's
decision is not going to distort the congressional
process. Whether we strike it all down or leave some of
it in place, the congressional process will never be the
same. One way or another, Congress is going to have to
reconsider this. And why isn't it better to have them
reconsider it -- what should I say -- in toto, rather
than having some things already in the law which you
have to eliminate before you can move on to consider
everything on balance?
MR. KNEEDLER: We think, as a matter of
judicial restraint, limits on equitable remedial power
limit this Court to addressing the provision that has
been challenged as unconstitutional and anything else
that the plaintiff seeks as relief. Here the only
thing --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But when you say "judicial
restraint" --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Kneedler, would you
please --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: When you say "judicial
restraint," you are echoing the earlier premise that it
increases the judicial power if the judiciary strikes
down other provisions of the Act. I suggest to you it
might be quite the opposite. We would be exercising the
judicial power, if one Act was -- one provision was
stricken and the others remained, to impose a risk on
insurance companies that Congress had never intended.
By reason of this Court, we would have a new regime that
Congress did not provide for, did not consider. That,
it seems to me, can be argued at least to be a more
extreme exercise of judicial power than to strike --
than striking the whole.
MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I think not, Justice --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just don't accept the
premise.
MR. KNEEDLER: I think not, Justice Kennedy,
and then I'll move on.
But this is exactly the situation in Printz.
The Court identified the severability questions that
were -- that were briefed before the Court as important
ones but said that they affect people who are -- rights
and obligations of people who are not before the Court.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Kneedler, move away
from the issue of whether it's a standing question or
not.
MR. KNEEDLER: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Make the assumption
that's an -- that this is an issue of the Court's
exercise of discretion, because the last two questions
had to do with what's wise for the Court to do, not
whether it has power to do it or not.
MR. KNEEDLER: Right. And --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, let's move beyond
the power issue, which your answers have centered on,
and give me the sort of policy. And I know that's a --
that's a bugaboo word sometimes, but what should guide
the Court's discretion?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, we think that matters
of justiciability do blend into --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would you please --
MR. KNEEDLER: No, I understand.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I've asked you three
times to move around that.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- blend into -- blend into
discretion and, in turn, blend into the merits of the
severability question. And as to that, just to answer a
question that several Justices have asked, we think that
severability is a matter of statutory interpretation.
It should be resolved by looking at the structure and
the text of the Act, and the Court may look at
legislative history to figure out what the text and
structure mean with respect to severability. We
don't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Kneedler, what happened
to the Eighth Amendment? You really want us to go
through these 2,700 pages?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: And do you really expect
the Court to do that? Or do you expect us to give this
function to our law clerks?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is this not totally
unrealistic, that we're going to go through this
enormous bill item by item and decide each one?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought the simple
answer was you don't have to because --
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, that is -- that is
the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- what we have to look
at is what Congress said was essential, correct?
MR. KNEEDLER: That is correct, and I'd also
like to -- going -- I just wanted to finish the thought
I had about this being a matter of statutory
interpretation. The Court's task, we submit, is not to
look at the legislative process to see whether the bill
would have been -- would have passed or not based on the
political situation at the time, which would basically
convert the Court into a function such as a whip count.
That is not the Court's function.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And, Mr. Kneedler, that
would be a revolution --
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- in our severability law,
wouldn't it?
MR. KNEEDLER: It would.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, we have never
suggested that we are going to say, look, this
legislation was a brokered compromise, and we're going
to try to figure out exactly what would have happened in
the complex parliamentary shenanigans that go on across
the street and figure out whether they would have made a
difference.
Instead, we look at the text that's actually
given us. For some people, we look only at the text.
It should be easy for Justice Scalia's clerks.
(Laughter.)
MR. KNEEDLER: I think -- I think that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't care whether it's
easy for my clerks. I care whether it's easy for me.
(Laughter.)
MR. KNEEDLER: I think that -- I think
that's exactly right. As I said, it is a question of
statutory interpretation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how is that --
what's exactly right? It's a question of statutory
interpretation. That means you have to go through every
line of the statute. I haven't heard your answer to
Justice Scalia's question yet.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I think in this case
there is an easy answer, and that is -- Justice Kagan
pointed out that that the Act itself creates a sharp
dividing line between the minimum coverage provision --
the package of -- of reforms: The minimum coverage
provision along with the guaranteed issue and community
rating. That is one package that Congress deemed
essential.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do you know
that? Where is this line? I looked through the whole
Act. I didn't read -- well --
MR. KNEEDLER: It is -- it is in
Congress's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where is the sharp
line?
MR. KNEEDLER: It is in Congress's findings
that the -- that the minimum coverage provision --
without it, the Court -- the Congress said, in Finding
(I), without that provision, people would wait to get
insurance, and therefore -- and cause all the adverse
selection problems --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. That --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- that gave rise to it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That makes your case
that the one provision should fall if the other does.
It doesn't tell us anything about all the other
provisions.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- I think -- I think
it does, because Congress said it was essential to those
provisions, but it conspicuously did not say that it was
essential to other provisions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well --
JUSTICE ALITO: May I ask you about the
argument that's made in the economists' amicus brief?
They say that the insurance reforms impose 10-year costs
of roughly $700 billion on the insurance industry and
that these costs are supposed to be offset by about 350
billion in new revenue from the individual mandate and
350 billion from the Medicaid expansion.
Now, if the 350 billion -- maybe you'll
disagree with the numbers, that they're fundamentally
wrong. But assuming that they're in the ballpark, if
the 350 million from the individual mandate were to be
lost, what would happen to the insurance industry, which
would now be in the -- in the hole for $350 billion over
10 years?
MR. KNEEDLER: I don't -- I mean, first of
all, for the Court to go beyond text and legislative
history to try to figure out how the finances of a bill
operated, it's like being the budget committee. But --
but we think the economists had added up the figures
wrong. If there's Medicaid expansion, the insurance --
and the insurance companies are involved in that,
they're going to be reimbursed for the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But what if there
isn't Medicaid expansion? We've talked about the
individual mandate, but does the Government have a
position on what should happen if the Medicaid expansion
is struck down?
MR. KNEEDLER: We don't -- we don't think
that that would have any effect. And that could be
addressed in the next argument. But we don't think that
would have any effect on the -- on the rest of the -- on
the rest of the Act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, it -- the
Government's position is that if Medicaid expansion is
struck down, the rest of the Act can operate --
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- without it.
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. It's -- in the past,
Congress has expanded Medicaid coverage without there
being -- it's done it many times without there being a
minimum coverage provision.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I still don't
understand where you are with the answer to
Justice Alito's question.
Assume that there is a -- a substantial
probability that the 350 billion plus 350 billion equals
7 is going to be cut in half if the individual mandate
is stricken. Assume there is a significant possibility
of that. Is it within the proper exercise of this
Court's function to impose that kind of risk? Can we
say that the Congress would have intended that there be
that kind of risk?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, we don't think it's in
the Court's place to look at the -- at the budgetary
implications, and we also --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But isn't that -- isn't
that the point, then, why we should just assume that it
is not severable?
MR. KNEEDLER: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we -- if we lack the
competence to even assess whether there is a risk, then
isn't this an awesome exercise of judicial power?
MR. KNEEDLER: No, I don't --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: To say we're doing
something and we're not telling you what the
consequences might be?
MR. KNEEDLER: No, I don't think so, because
when you -- when you're talking about monetary
consequences, you're looking through the Act, you're
looking behind the Act, rather than -- the Court's
function is to look at the text and structure of the Act
and what the substantive provisions of the Act
themselves mean. And if I could go past --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Kneedler, could I --
can you give us a prior case in -- that resembles this
one in which we are asked to strike down what the other
side says is the heart of the Act, and yet leave in --
as you request, leave in effect the rest of it? Have we
ever -- most of our severability cases, you know,
involve one little aspect of the Act, and the question
is whether the rest. When have we ever really struck
down what was the main purpose of the Act and left the
rest in effect? Do you have a case for that?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think Booker is the best
example of that. In Booker, the mandatory sentencing
provisions were central to the Act, but the -- but the
Court said Congress would have preferred a statute
without the mandatory provision in the Act, and the
Court struck that, but the rest of the sentencing
guidelines remained.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think the reason -- the
reason the majority said that was that they didn't think
that what was essential to the Act was what had been
stricken down, and that is the -- the ability of the
judge to say on his own what -- what the punishment
would be. I don't think that's a case where we
struck -- where we excised the heart of the statute.
You have another one?
MR. KNEEDLER: There's no example --
JUSTICE SCALIA: There is no example. This
is really --
MR. KNEEDLER: There's no example to our --
that we have found that suggests the contrary.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is this really a case of
first impression?
MR. KNEEDLER: It's a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know another case
where we have been confronted with this -- with this
decision.
Can you take out the heart of the Act and
leave everything else in place?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I would like to go to
"the heart of the Act" point in a moment. But what I
would like to say is this is a huge act with many
provisions that are completely unrelated to market
reforms and operate in different ways. And we think it
would be extraordinary in this extraordinary act to
strike all of that down because there are many
provisions and it would be too hard to do it.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, I think it's not
uncommon that Congress passes an act, and then there are
many different titles, and some of the titles have
nothing to do with the other titles. That's a common
thing. And you're saying you've never found an instance
where they're all struck out when they have nothing to
do with each other.
My question is -- because I hear Mr. Clement
saying something not too different from what you say.
He talks about things at the periphery. We can't reject
or accept an argument on severability because it's a lot
of work for us. That's beside the point. But do you
think that it's possible for you and Mr. Clement -- I'm
exploring this -- to get together and agree on --
(Laughter)
JUSTICE BREYER: -- I mean, on a list of
things that are, in both your opinions, peripheral?
Then you would focus on those areas where one of you
thinks it's peripheral and one of you thinks it's not
peripheral. And at that point, it might turn out to be
far fewer than we're currently imagining, at which point
we could hold an argument or figure out some way or
somebody would hold an argument and try to -- try to get
those done.
Is that a pipe dream or is that a --
MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I just don't think
that's realistic. The Court would be doing it without
the parties, the millions of parties --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Have a conference committee
report afterwards, maybe.
(Laughter.)
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. No, it just -- it just
is not something that a court would ordinarily do. But
I would like --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you get back to
the argument of -- of the heart?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Striking down the heart,
do we want half a loaf or a shell?
MR. KNEEDLER: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think those are the
two analogies that --
MR. KNEEDLER: Right. And -- and I would
like to discuss it again in terms of the text and
structure of the Act. We have very important
indications from the structure of this Act that the
whole thing is not supposed to fall.
The most basic one is the notion that
Congress would have intended the whole Act to fall if
there couldn't be a minimum coverage provision is
refuted by the fact that there are many, many provisions
of this Act already in effect without a minimum coverage
provision. Two point -- 2 and a half million people
under 26 have gotten insurance by one of the insurance
requirements, $3.2 billion --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Anticipation of the minimum
coverage. That's going to bankrupt the insurance
companies, if not the States, unless this minimum
coverage provision comes into effect.
MR. KNEEDLER: There's no reason to think
it's going to -- it's going to bankrupt anyone. The
costs will be set to cover those -- to cover those
amounts that are --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought that the
26-year-olds were saying that they were healthy and
didn't need insurance yesterday.
MR. KNEEDLER: Two and a half --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, today they're going
to bankrupt the --
MR. KNEEDLER: Two and a half million people
would be -- would be thrown off the insurance rolls if
the Court were to say that. Congress made many changes
to Medicare rates that have gone into effect. For
Congress -- for the courts to have to unwind millions of
Medicare reimbursement rates -- Medicare has covered 32
million insurance -- preventive care visits by patients
as a result of this Act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All of that was
based on the assumption that the mandate was
constitutional. And if -- that certainly doesn't stop
us from reaching our own determination on that.
MR. KNEEDLER: No, but what I'm saying is
it's a question of legislative intent, and we have a
very fundamental indication of legislative intent that
it -- that Congress did not mean the whole Act to fall
if -- without the minimum coverage provision, because we
have many provisions that are operating now without
that.
But there's a further indication about why
the line should be drawn where I've suggested, which is
the package of these particular provisions. All of the
other provisions of the Act would continue to advance
Congress's goal, as the test that was articulated in
Booker, but it's been said in Regan and other cases.
You look to whether the other provisions can continue to
advance the purposes of the Act.
Here they unquestionably can. The public
health -- the broad public health purposes of the Act
that are unrelated to the minimum coverage provision but
also the other provisions designed to enhance affordable
-- access to affordable care: The employer
responsibility provision, the credit for small
businesses, which is already in effect, by the way, and
affecting many small businesses. That --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But many people might
not -- many of the people in Congress might not have
voted for those provisions if the central part of this
statute was not adopted.
MR. KNEEDLER: But that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you know, you're --
to say that we're effectuating the intent of Congress is
just unrealistic. Once you've cut the guts out of it,
who knows, who knows which of them were really desired
by Congress on their own and which ones weren't?
MR. KNEEDLER: The question for the Court
is, Congress having passed the law by whatever majority
there might be in one house or the other, Congress
having passed the law, what at that point is -- is the
legislative intent embodied in the law Congress has
actually passed?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's right.
But the problem is, straight from the title, we have two
complementary purposes, patient protection and
affordable care. And you can't look at something and
say this promotes affordable care; therefore, it's
consistent with Congress's intent. Because Congress had
a balanced intent. You can't look at another provision
and say this promotes patient protection without asking
if it's affordable.
So, it seems to me if you ask what is going
to promote Congress's purpose, that's just an inquiry
that you can't carry out.
MR. KNEEDLER: No, I -- with respect, I
disagree, because I think it's evident that Congress's
purpose was to expand access to affordable care. It did
it in discrete ways. It did it by the penalty on
employers that don't -- that don't offer suitable care.
It did it by offering tax credits to small employers.
It did it by offering tax credits to purchasers. All of
those are a variety of ways that continue to further
Congress's goal. And most of all, Medicaid, which is --
which is unrelated to -- to the private insurance market
altogether.
And in adopting those other provisions
governing employers and whatnot, Congress built on its
prior experience of using the tax code, which it has --
for a long period of time, Congress has subsidized the
provision of health care --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't quite understand
about the employers. You're saying Congress mandated
employers to buy something that Congress itself has not
contemplated? I don't understand that.
MR. KNEEDLER: No. Employer coverage -- 150
million people in this country already get their
insurance through -- through their employers. What
Congress did in seeking to augment that was to add a
provision requiring employers to purchase insurance or
pay a tax penalty.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Based on the assumption
that the cost of those policies would be lowered
by certain provisions which are, by hypothesis -- we're
not sure -- by hypothesis, are in doubt.
MR. KNEEDLER: No, I -- I think it's -- any
cost assumptions -- there's no indication that Congress
made any cost assumptions, but -- but there's no reason
to think that the individual -- that the individual
market, which is where the minimum coverage provision is
directed, would affect that.
I would like to say -- I have pointed out
why the other things would advance Congress's goal. The
point here is that the package of three things would be
contrary -- would run contrary to Congress's goal if you
took out the minimum coverage provision.
And here's why -- and this is reflected in
the findings. If you take out minimum coverage but
leave in the guaranteed issue and community rating, you
will make matters worse. Rates will go up, and people
-- there will be less -- fewer people covered in the
individual market.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if that is true, what
is the difference between guaranteed-issue and
community-rating provisions, on the one hand, and other
provisions that increase costs substantially for
insurance companies?
For example, the tax on high cost health
plans, which the economists' amicus brief said will cost
$217 billion over 10 years?
MR. KNEEDLER: Those are -- what Congress --
Congress did not think of those things as balancing
insurance companies. Insurance companies are
participants in the market for Medicaid and -- and other
things.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're saying we have
-- we have the expertise to make the inquiry you want us
to make, i.e., the guaranteed issue, but not the
expertise that Justice Alito's question suggests we must
make.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just don't understand
your position.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- that's because -- that's
because I think this Court's function is to look at the
text and structure and the legislative history of the
law that Congress enacted, not the financial -- not a
financial balance sheet, which doesn't appear anywhere
in the law. And just --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're relying on
Congress's quite explicitly tying these three things
together.
MR. KNEEDLER: We do. That's -- that's --
and it's not just the text of the Act, but the
background of the Act, the experience in the States, the
testimony of the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners.
That's the -- that's the problem Congress
was addressing. There was a -- there was -- a shifting
of present actuarial risks in that market that Congress
wanted to correct. And if you took the minimum coverage
provision out and left the other two provisions in,
there would be laid on top of the existing shifting of
present actuarial risks an additional one because the
uninsured would know that they would have guaranteed
access to insurance whenever they became sick. It would
make the -- it would make the adverse selection in that
market problem even worse.
And so, what -- and Congress, trying to come
up with a market-based solution to control rates in that
market, has adopted something that would -- that would
work to control costs by guaranteed issue and community
rating, but if you -- if -- if you take out the minimum
coverage, that won't work. That was Congress's
assumption, again, shown by the text and legislative
history of this provision. And that's why we think
those things rise or fall in a package, because they cut
against what Congress was trying to do.
All of the other provisions would actually
increase access to affordable care and would have
advantageous effects on price. Again, Congress was
invoking its traditional use of the tax code, which has
long subsidized insurance through employers, has used
that to impose a tax penalty on -- on employers, to give
tax credits. This is traditional stuff that Congress
has done.
And the other thing Congress has done, those
pre-existing laws had their own protections for
guaranteed issue and community rating. Effectively,
within the large employer plans, they can't discriminate
among people. They can't charge different rates. What
Congress was doing, was doing that in the other market.
If it can't, that's all that should be struck from the
Act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Kneedler.
Mr. Farr.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF H. BARTOW FARR, III,
AS THE COURT-APPOINTED AMICUS CURIAE
MR. FARR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
At the outset, I would just like to say I
think that the Government's position in this case that
the community-rating and guaranteed-issue provisions
ought to be struck down is an example of the best
driving out the good, because, even without the minimum
coverage provision, those two provisions, guaranteed
issue and community rating, will still open insurance
markets to millions of people that were excluded under
the prior system and for millions of people will lower
prices, which were raised high under the old system
because of their poor health.
So, even though the system is not going to
work precisely as Congress wanted, it would certainly
serve central goals that Congress had of expanding
coverage for people who were unable to get coverage or
unable to get it at affordable prices.
So, when the government --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: One of the points that
Mr. Kneedler made is that the price won't be affordable
because the -- he spoke of the adverse selection
problem, that there would be so fewer people in there,
the insurance companies are going to have to raise the
premiums.
So, it's nice that Congress made it possible
for more people to be covered, but the reality is they
won't because they won't be able to afford the premium.
MR. FARR: Well, Justice Ginsburg, let me
say two things about that.
First of all, when we talk about premiums
becoming less affordable, it's very important to keep in
mind different groups of people, because it is not
something that applies accurately to everybody.
For people who were not able to get
insurance before, obviously, their insurance beforehand
was -- the price was essentially infinite. They were
not able to get it at any price. They will now be able
to get it at a price that they can afford.
For people who are unhealthy and were able
to get insurance, but perhaps not for the things that
they were most concerned about, or only at very high
rates, their rates will be lower under the system, even
without the minimum coverage provision.
Also, you have a large number of people who,
under the Act --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Why do you
say -- I didn't follow that. Why?
MR. FARR: Because --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would their rates be
lower?
MR. FARR: Their rates are going to be lower
than they were under the prior system because they are
going into a pool of people, rather than -- some of whom
are healthy, rather than having their rates set
according to their individual health characteristics.
That's why their rates were so high.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But the problem, Mr. Farr,
isn't it, that they're going to a pool of people that
will gradually get older and unhealthier. That's the
way the thing works. Once you say that the insurance
companies have to cover all of the sick people and all
of the old people, the -- the rates climb. More and
more young people and healthy people say why should we
participate; we can just get it later when we get sick.
So, they leave the market. The rates go up further.
More people leave the market. And the whole system
crashes and burns, becomes unsustainable.
MR. FARR: Well, that's --
JUSTICE KAGAN: And this is not --
MR. FARR: Sorry.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- like what I think. What
do I know? It's just what -- what's reflected in
Congress's findings, that it's -- it looks at some
States and says this system crashed and burned. It
looked at another State with the minimum coverage
provision and said this one seems to work; so, we'll
package the minimum coverage provision with the
nondiscrimination provisions.
MR. FARR: Well, in a moment, I'd like to
talk about the finding, but if I could just postpone
that for a second and talk about adverse selection
itself.
I think one of the misconceptions here,
Justice Kagan, is that Congress, having seen the
experience of the States in the '90s with community
rating and guaranteed issue, simply imposed the minimum
coverage provision as a possible way of dealing with
that, and if you don't have the minimum coverage
provision, then, essentially, adverse selection runs
rampant. But that's not what happened.
Congress included at least half a dozen
other provisions to deal with adverse selection caused
by bringing in people who are less healthy into the Act.
There are -- to begin with, the Act
authorizes annual enrollment periods so people can't
just show up at the hospital. If they don't show up and
sign up at the right time, they at least have to wait to
the -- to the time next year. That's authorized by the
Act.
There -- with respect to the subsidies,
there are three different things that make this
important. First of all, the subsidies are very
generous. For people below 200 percent of the Federal
poverty line, the subsidy will cover 80 percent, on
average, of the premium, which makes it attractive to
them to join.
The structure of the subsidies, because
their income -- they create a floor for -- based on the
income of the person getting the insurance, and then the
government covers everything over that. And this is
important in adverse selection because if you do have a
change in the mix of people and average premiums start
to rise, the government picks up the increase in the
premium. The amount that the person who is getting
insured contributes remains constant at a percentage of
his or her income.
And the third thing --
JUSTICE SCALIA: There is nothing about
Federal support that is unsustainable, right? That is
infinite.
(Laughter.)
MR. FARR: Well, I mean, that's a fair
point, Justice Scalia, although one of the things that
happens, if you take the mandate out, while it is true
that the subsidies that the government provides to any
individual will increase, and they will be less
efficient -- I'm not disputing that point -- actually,
the overall amount of the subsidies that the government
will provide will decline, as the Government notes
itself in its brief, because there will be fewer people
getting them. Some people will opt out of the system
even though they're getting subsidies.
But I'd just like to go back for one more
second to the point about how the subsidies are part of
what Congress was using, because the other thing is that
for people below 250 percent of the Federal poverty
line, Congress also picks up and subsidizes the
out-of-pocket costs, raising the actuarial value.
So, you have all of that, and then you have
Congress also, unlike the States, establishing -- or I
should be precisely accurate -- unlike almost all the
States, establishing an age differential of up to three
to one. So, an insurance company, for example, that is
selling a 25-year-old a policy for $4,000 can charge a
60-year-old $12,000 for exactly the same coverage.
The States typically in the '90s, when they
were instituting these programs, they either had pure
community rating, where everybody is charged the same
premium -- everybody regardless of their age is charged
the same premium. Some States had a variance of 1.5
to 1. Massachusetts, for example, which did have good
subsidies, but their age band was two to one.
So, when Congress is enacting this Act, it's
not simply looking at the States and thinking: Well,
that didn't go very well. Why don't we put in a minimum
coverage provision? That will solve the problem.
Congress did a lot of different things to
try to combat the adverse selection.
Now, if I could turn to the finding, because
I think this is the crux of the Government's position,
and then the plaintiffs pick up on that and then move --
move from that to the rest of the Act. And it seems to
me, quite honestly, it's an important part because that
is textual. You know, in this whole sort of quest for
what we're trying to figure out, the finding seems to
stand out as something that the Court can rely on and
say here's something Congress has actually told us.
But I think the real problem with the
finding is the -- the context in which Congress made it.
It's quite clear. If the Court wants to look, the
finding is on page 42 -- 43a, excuse me, of the
Solicitor General's severability brief, in the appendix.
But the finding is made specifically in the
context of interstate commerce. That is why the
findings are in the Act at all. Congress wanted to
indicate to the Court, knowing that the minimum coverage
provision was going to be challenged, wanted to indicate
to the Court the basis on which it believed it had the
power under the Commerce Clause to enact this law.
Why does that make a difference with respect
to Finding (I), which is the one that the Government is
relying on, and in particular the last sentence, which
says this requirement "is essential to creating
effective health insurance markets" in which guaranteed
issue and pre-existing illnesses can be covered.
And the reason is because the word
"essential" in the Commerce Clause context doesn't have
the colloquial meaning. In the Commerce Clause context,
"essential" effectively means useful. So that when one
says -- in Lopez, when the Court says section 922(q) is
not an essential part of a larger regulatory scheme of
economic activity, it goes on to say: In which the
regulatory scheme would be undercut if we didn't have
this provision.
Well, if that's all Congress means, I agree
with that. The system will be undercut somewhat if you
don't have the minimum coverage provision. It's like
the word "necessary" in the Necessary and Proper Clause
Clause. It doesn't mean, as the Court has said on
numerous occasions, absolutely necessary. It means
conducive to, useful, advancing the objectives,
advancing the aims. And it's easy to see, I think, that
that's what Congress did.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there any dictionary
that gives that --
MR. FARR: I'm sorry, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that definition of
"essential"? It's very imaginative.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just give me one
dictionary.
MR. FARR: Well -- but I think my point,
Justice Scalia, is that they're not using it in the true
dictionary sense.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How do we know that? When
people speak, I assume they're speaking English.
MR. FARR: Well --
(Laughter.)
MR. FARR: I think that there are several
reasons that I would suggest that we would know that
from. The first is, as I say, the findings themselves.
Congress says at the very beginning -- the head of it is
Congress makes the following findings. And they're
talking about the interstate -- you know, (B) is headed
"Effects on the national economy and interstate
commerce." So, we know the context that Congress is
talking about. It is more or less quoting from the
Court's Commerce Clause statement.
But if one looks at the very preceding
finding, which is Finding (H), which is on 42 over onto
43, Congress at that point also uses the word
"essential." In the second sentence, it says this
requirement -- and again, we're talking about the
minimum coverage provision -- "is an essential part of
this larger regulation of economic activity," which is,
by the way, an exact quote from Lopez, in which "the
absence of the requirement would undercut Federal
regulation," also an exact quote from Lopez.
But what it's referring to is essential --
an essential part of ERISA, the National Health Service
Act, and the Affordable Care Act. It can't possibly be,
even the plaintiffs haven't argued, that those acts
would all fall in their entirety if you took out the
minimum coverage provision.
And as a second example of the same usage by
Congress, the statute that was before the Court in
Raich, section 801 of Title 21, the Court said that the
regulation of intrastate drug activity, drug traffic,
was essential to the regulation of interstate drug
activity. Again, it is simply not conceivable that
Congress was saying one is so indispensable to the
other, the way the United States uses the term here, so
indispensable that if we can't regulate the intrastate
traffic, we don't want to regulate the interstate
traffic, either. The whole law criminalizing drug
traffic would fall.
So, I think once you look at the finding for
what I believe it says, which is we believe this is a
useful part of our regulatory scheme, which the Congress
would think in its own approach would be sufficient --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel --
MR. FARR: Yes, Justice.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The problem I have is
that you're ignoring the congressional findings and all
of the evidence Congress had before it that community
ratings and guaranteed issuance would be a death
spiral -- I think that was the word that was used --
without minimum coverage. Those are all of the
materials that are part of the legislative record here.
So, even if it might not be because of the
structure of the Act, that's post hoc evidence. Why
should we be looking at that as opposed to what Congress
had before it and use "essential" in its plain meaning:
You can't have minimum coverage without, what the SG is
arguing, community ratings and guaranteed issue. You
can't have those two without minimum coverage.
MR. FARR: Well, I think that's a fair
question. But the idea that -- that all the information
before Congress only led to the idea that if -- that you
would have death spirals seems to me to be contradicted
a little bit at least by the CBO report in November of
2009, which is about 4 months before the Act passed,
where the CBO talks about adverse selection.
Now, I want to be clear. This is at a time
when the minimum coverage provision was in the statute.
So, I'm not suggesting that this is a discussion without
that in it. But, nonetheless, the CBO goes through and
talks about adverse selection and -- and points out the
different provisions in the Act, the ones I have
mentioned plus one other, actually, where in the first 3
years of the operation of the exchanges, those insurance
companies that get sort of a worse selection of -- of
consumers will be given essentially credits from
insurance companies that get better selection.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So, do you want us to
write an opinion saying we have concluded that there is
an insignificant risk of a substantial adverse effect on
the insurance companies -- that's our economic
conclusion -- and therefore not severable? That's what
you want me to say?
MR. FARR: It doesn't sound right the way
you say it, Justice Kennedy. So --
(Laughter.)
MR. FARR: No, I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you don't want them
to say, either, that there is a death spiral. Do you
want -- you don't want us to make either of those two
findings, I'm assuming.
MR. FARR: That's correct. Now, I -- I
agree that there's a risk and the significance of it
people can debate. But what I think is -- is lost in
that question -- and I didn't mean to be whimsical about
it. I think what is lost in it a little bit is what's
on the other side, which is the fact that if you follow
the Government's suggestion, if the Court follows the
Government's suggestion, what is going to be lost is
something we know is a central part of the Act. I mean,
indeed, if one sort of looks at the legislative history
more broadly, I think much of it is directed toward the
idea that guaranteed issue and community rating were the
crown jewel of the Act.
The minimum coverage provision wasn't
something that everybody was bragging about. It was
something that was meant to be part of this package. I
agree with that.
But the -- but the point of it was to have
guaranteed issue and minimum coverage. I mean -- excuse
me -- guaranteed issue and community rating. And that's
-- under the Government's proposal, those would
disappear. We would go back to the old system.
And under what I think is the proper
severability analysis, the -- the real question the
Court is asking, should be asking, is, would Congress
rather go back to the old system than to take perhaps
the risk that you're talking about, Justice Kennedy?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You -- you're
referring to the Government's second position. Their
first, of course, is that we shouldn't address this
issue at all.
MR. FARR: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I asked Mr. Kneedler
about what procedure or process would be anticipated for
people who are affected by the change in -- in the law
and the change in the economic consequences. Do you
have a view on how that could be played out? It does
seem to me that if we accept your position, something --
there have to -- there has to be a broad range of
consequences, whether it's additional legislation,
additional litigation.
Any thoughts on how that's going to play
out?
MR. FARR: Well, if the Court adopts the
position that I'm advocating, Mr. Chief Justice, I think
what would happen is that the Court would say that the
minimum coverage provision, by hypothesis of course, is
unconstitutional, and the fact of that being
unconstitutional does not mean the invalidation of any
other provision.
So, under the position I'm advocating, there
would no longer be challenges to the remaining part of
the Act. The --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if the challenge
is what we're questioning today, whether -- if you're an
insurance company and you don't believe that you can
give the coverage in the way Congress mandated it
without the individual mandate, what -- what type of
action do you bring in court?
MR. FARR: You -- if the Court follows the
course that I'm advocating, you do not bring an action
in court. You go to Congress and you seek a change from
Congress to say the minimum coverage provision has been
struck down by the Court: Here is our -- here -- here's
the information that we have to show you what the risks
are going to be. Here are the adjustments you need to
make.
One of the questions earlier pointed out
that States have adjusted their systems as they've gone
along, as they've seen things work or not work.
You know, as I was talking earlier about the
-- the different ratio for ages in insurance. The
States have tended to change that because they found
that having too narrow a band worked against the
effectiveness of their programs. But they -- except for
in Massachusetts, they didn't enact mandates.
So, to answer -- I think to answer your
question directly, Mr. Chief Justice, the position I'm
advocating would simply have those -- those pleas go to
Congress, not in court.
Now, if one -- just to discuss the issue
more generally, if that's helpful, I think that if there
were situations where the Court deferred -- let's say
for discretionary reasons, they just said -- the Court
said we're not going to take up the question of
severability and therefore not resolve it in these other
situations, it certainly seems to me that in enforcement
actions, for example, if the time comes in 2014 and
somebody applies to an insurance company for a
policy and the insurance company says, well, we're not
going to issue a policy, we don't think your risks are
ones that we're willing to cover -- it seems to me that
they could sue the insurance company and the insurance
company could raise as a defense that this provision,
the guaranteed-issue provision of the statute, is not
enforceable because it was inseverable from the decision
-- from the provision that the Court held
unconstitutional in 2012.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Farr, let's consider
how -- how your approach, severing as little as
possible, thereby increases the deference that we're
showing to Congress. It seems to me it puts Congress in
this position: This Act is still in full effect. There
is going to be this deficit that used to be made up by
the mandatory coverage provision. All that money has to
come from somewhere. You can't repeal the rest of the
Act because you're not going to get 60 votes in the
Senate to repeal the rest. It's not a matter of
enacting a new Act. You got to get 60 votes to repeal
it. So, the rest of the Act is going to be the law.
So, you're just put to the choice of, I
guess, bankrupting insurance companies and the whole
system comes tumbling down, or else enacting a Federal
subsidy program to the insurance companies, which is
what the insurance companies would like, I'm sure.
Do you really think that that is somehow
showing deference to Congress and respecting the
democratic process?
It seems to me it's a gross distortion of
it.
MR. FARR: Well, Your Honor, the difficulty
is that it seems to me the other possibility is for the
Court to make choices particularly based on what it
expects the difficulties of Congress altering the
legislation after a Court ruling would be. I'm not
aware of any severability decision that has ever looked
anything like that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I -- that wouldn't be
my approach. My approach would say, if you take the
heart out of the statute, the statute's gone. That
enables Congress to do what it wants in the usual
fashion. And it doesn't inject us into the process of
saying: This is good, this is bad, this is good, this
is bad.
MR. FARR: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me it reduces
our options the most and increases Congress's the most.
MR. FARR: And I guess to some extent I have
to quarrel with the premise, Justice Scalia, because at
least the position that I'm advocating today, under
which the Court would only take out the minimum coverage
provision, I don't think would fit the description that
you have given of taking out the heart of the statute.
Now, I do think once you take out guaranteed
issue and community rating, you're getting closer to the
heart of the statute. And one of the -- one of the
difficulties I think with the Government's position is
that I think it's harder to cabin that, to draw that
bright line around it. It's harder than the Government
thinks it is.
I mean, to begin with, even the Government
seems to acknowledge, I think, that the exchanges are
going to be relatively pale relatives of the exchanges
as they're intended to be, where you're going to have
standardized products, everybody can come and make
comparisons based on products that look more or less the
same.
But the other thing that's going to happen
is with the subsidy program. The way that the subsidy
program is set up, the subsidy is calculated according
to essentially a benchmark plan. And this -- if one --
if the Court wants to look at the provisions, they're --
they begin at page 64a of the private plaintiffs' brief.
Again, in the appendix. The particular provision I'm
talking about's at 68a. But there's a -- there's a
question -- you -- you're looking essentially to
calculate the premium by looking at a -- at a
standardized silver plan.
First question, obviously, is: Is there
going to be any such plan if you don't have guaranteed
issue and community rating, if the plans can basically
be individualized? But the second problem is that, in
the provision on 68a, the -- the provision that's used
for calculating the subsidy, what -- what is anticipated
in the provision under the Act, as it is now, is that
you do have the floor of the income. You would -- you
would take this benchmark plan, and the government would
pay the difference.
And as we talked about earlier, the
benchmark plan can change for age, and -- and the
provision says it can be adjusted only for age. So, if
in fact you even have such a thing as a benchmark plan
anymore, if the rates of people in poor health go up
because of individual insurance underwriting, the
government subsidy is not going to pay for that.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Farr, I understood that
the answer that you gave to Justice Scalia was
essentially that the minimum coverage provision was not
the heart of the Act. Instead, the minimum coverage
provision was a tool to make the nondiscrimination
provisions -- community rating, guaranteed issue --
work.
So, if you assume that, that all the minimum
coverage is, is a tool to make those provisions work,
then I guess I would refocus Justice Scalia's question
and say, if we know that something is just a tool to
make other provisions work, shouldn't that be the case
in which those other provisions are severed along with
the tool?
MR. FARR: No, I don't think so, because
there are -- there are many other tools to make the same
things work. That's I think the point.
And if one -- and the case that comes to
mind is New York v. The United States, where the Court
struck down the "take title" provision but left other --
two other incentives essentially in place.
Even without the minimum coverage provision,
there will be a lot of other incentives still to bring
younger people into the market and to keep them in the
market. And if -- if my reading of the finding is
correct -- and that's all that Congress is saying, that
this would be useful -- it doesn't mean that it's
impossible to have --
JUSTICE BREYER: But would you -- I'd just
like to hear before you leave your argument, if you want
to, against what Justice Scalia just said. Let's
assume, contrary to what you want, that the Government's
position is accepted by the majority of this Court. And
so, we now are rid, quote, of the true "heart" of the
bill. Now, still there are a lot of other provisions
here like the Indian Act, the black lung disease, the
wellness program, that restaurants have to have a
calorie count of major menus, et cetera.
Now, some of them cost money, and some of
them don't. And there are loads of them. Now, what is
your argument that just because the heart of the bill is
gone, that has nothing to do with the validity of these
other provisions, both those that cost money or at least
those that cost no money? Do you want to make an
argument in that respect, that destroying the heart of
the bill does not blow up the entire bill; it blows up
the heart of a bill? And I'd just like to hear what you
have to say about that.
MR. FARR: Well, Justice Breyer, I think
what I would say is, if one goes back to the -- what I
think is the proper severability standard and say, would
Congress rather have not -- no bill as opposed to the
bill with whatever is severed from it, it seems to me
when you're talking about provisions that don't have
anything to do with the minimum coverage provision,
there's no reason to answer that question as any other
way than yes, Congress would want these provisions.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that the real Congress
or a hypothetical Congress?
(Laughter.)
MR. FARR: An objective Congress, Your
Honor, not the specific -- not with a vote count.
JUSTICE BREYER: Have you come across --
MR. FARR: Excuse me.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why put -- why put Congress
to that false choice?
MR. FARR: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You know -- you only have
two choices, Congress. You can have the whole bill or
you can have -- you can have parts of the bill or no
bill at all. Why that false choice?
MR. FARR: I think the reason is because
severability is by necessity a blunt tool. The Court
doesn't have -- even if it had the inclination, doesn't
essentially have the authority to retool the statute --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Oh, I know. So, you
-- I would say stay out of politics. That's for
Congress, not us.
MR. FARR: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: But the -- the question
here is -- you've read all these cases or dozens -- have
you ever found a severability case where the Court ever
said: Well, the heart of the thing is gone, and,
therefore, we strike down these other provisions that
have nothing to do with it, which could stand on their
feet independently and can be funded separately or don't
require money at all.
MR. FARR: I think the accurate answer would
be I am not aware of a modern case that says that. I
think there probably are cases in the '20s and '30s that
would be more like that.
If I could just take one second to address
the economists' brief because Justice Alito raised it
earlier. I just want to make one simple point. Leaving
aside the whole balancing thing, if one looks at the
economists' brief, I think it's very important to note
that when they're talking about one side of the balance
-- may I finish?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Certainly.
MR. FARR: When they're talking about the
balance, they're not just talking about the minimum
coverage provision. They very carefully word it to say
the minimum coverage provision and the subsidy programs.
And then, so when you're doing the mathematical
balancing, the subsidy programs are extremely large.
They -- in year 2020, they're expected to be over
$100 billion in that one year alone. So, if you're
looking at the numbers, please consider that.
Thank you, Your Honors.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Farr.
Mr. Clement, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Clement, could you
respond to amici's point? He says that Congress didn't
go into this Act to impose minimum coverage. They went
into the Act to have a different purpose, i.e., to get
people coverage when they needed it, to increase
coverage for people, that this is only a tool. But
other States -- going back to my original point, that
there are other tools besides minimum coverage that
Congress can achieve the same goals. So, if we strike
just a tool, why should we strike the whole Act --
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- when Congress has
other tools available?
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, I'll make
four points in rebuttal, but I'll start with Justice
Sotomayor's question, which is to simply say this isn't
just a tool; it's the principal tool. Congress
identified it as an essential tool. It's not just a
tool to make it work. It's a tool to pay for it, to
make it affordable. And, again, that's not my
characterization; that's Congress's characterization in
Sub-finding (I) on page 43a of the Government's brief.
Now, that brings me to my first point in
rebuttal, which is Mr. Kneedler says, quite correctly --
tells this Court don't look at the budgetary
implications. Well, the problem with that, though, is
once it's common ground that the individual mandate is
in the statute at least in part to make community rating
and guaranteed issue affordable, that really is all you
have to identify. That establishes the essential link
that it's there to pay for it.
You don't have to figure out exactly how
much that is and which box -- I mean, it clearly is a
substantial part of it, because what they were trying to
do was take healthy individuals and put them into the
risk pool -- and this is quoting their finding -- which
is in order -- they put people into the market, which
will lower premiums. So, that's what their intent was.
So, you don't have to get to the final
number. You know that's what was going on here, and
that's reason alone to sever it.
Now, the Government -- Mr. Kneedler also
says there's an easy dividing line between what they
want to keep and what they want to dish out. The
problem with that is that, you know, you read their
brief and you might think, oh, there's a
guaranteed-issue and a community-rating provision
subtitle in the bill. There's not.
To figure out what they're talking about you
have to go to page 6 of their brief, of their opening
severability brief, where they tell you what's in and
what's out. And the easy dividing line they suggest is
actually between 300g(a)(1) and 300g(a)(2), because on
community rating, they don't -- they say that (a)(1)
goes, but then they say (a)(2) has to stay because
that's the way that you'll have some sort of -- kind of
Potemkin community rating for the exchanges. But if you
actually look at those provisions, (a)(2) makes all
these references to (a)(1). It just doesn't work.
Now, in getting back to the -- an inquiry
that I think this Court actually can approach is, to
look at what Congress was trying to do, you need look no
further than the title of this statute: Patient
Protection and Affordable Care. I agree with Mr. Farr
that community rating and guaranteed issue were the
crown jewels of this Act. They were what was trying to
provide patient protection. And what made it
affordable? The individual mandate. If you strike down
guaranteed issue, community rating, and the individual
mandate, there is nothing left to the heart of the Act.
And that takes me to my last point, which is
simply this Court in Buckley created a halfway house,
and it took Congress 40 years to try to deal with the
situation, when contrary to any time of their intent,
they had to try to figure out what are we going to do
when we're stuck with this ban on contributions, but we
can't get at expenditures because the Court told us we
couldn't. And for 40 years, they worked in that halfway
house.
Why make them do that in health care? The
choice is to give Congress the task of fixing this
statute, the residuum of this statute after some of it
is struck down, or giving them the task of simply fixing
the problem on a clean slate. I don't think that's a
close choice. If the individual mandate is
unconstitutional, the rest of the Act should fall.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Clement.
Mr. Farr, you were invited by this Court to
brief and argue in these cases in support of the
decision below on severability. You have ably carried
out that responsibility, for which we are grateful.
Case No. 11-393 is submitted. We will
continue argument in Case Number 11-400 this afternoon.
(Whereupon, at 11:50 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
64:2 66:18,18 60:8,16,19 amount 24:22 16:14
85:4 76:10,24 78:6 advocating 71:5 analogies 48:12 28:24 84:23
action 20:18 affect 37:6 53:13 Angeles 34:21 arguing 15:16
47:6 actions 72:23 affordable 4:23 10:1,5 20:9,9 3:2,5,8,11 4:4
activity 64:19 7:6 15:3 50:20 22:22 26:5,20 4:8 6:22 16:8
55:18 actuarial 55:12 56:7 57:19,22 43:19 72:12,12 43:6 47:6,17
55:16 62:15 58:8 66:18 76:22 79:1 47:18 48:6
added 42:20 84:1 answered 20:4 78:11,15 81:7
70:25 71:1 age 62:19 63:1,4 anticipated arises 33:23
addressed 19:12 agree 9:5 11:6 49:1 articulated
14:21,23 addressing 10:6 69:12 70:2 30:11 31:3 aside 80:15
16:10 31:18 36:1 83:22 33:20 asked 18:5 20:4
17:4 55:11 aims 65:4 anybody 30:15 38:2,7 45:2
24:2 adjudicates 30:7 airline 17:17 anymore 76:18 70:18
25:15 adjusted 5:15 AL 1:4,8,12,16 apart 29:16 asking 9:6 17:11
72:4 76:16 Alito 25:9,12,24 appear 54:25 24:13 51:23
29:3,7 adjustments 34:1 42:2 APPEARAN... 70:10,10
31:3 72:1 53:25 80:13 1:24 aspect 45:6
33:20 admit 15:13 Alito's 34:15 appendix 6:10 aspects 13:23
35:8 17:2 43:20 54:16 63:24 75:24 assess 44:12
38:10 adopt 20:11 allied 30:18 applied 18:9 Association 55:8
41:5 adopted 51:3 31:10 applies 58:10 assume 6:25
44:20 55:23 allow 33:22 72:24 43:21,24 44:8
adopting 52:14 altering 74:9 apply 17:11 18:4 65:18 77:3
adopts 71:4 altogether 19:24 18:15 23:14 78:2
46:11,14 advance 50:12 52:13 29:7,8 31:19 assuming 42:11
50:16 53:15 Amendment 34:12 69:10
advancing 65:3 38:15 appoint 23:10 assumption
50:5,12 65:4 Americans 24:8 approach 14:1 37:12 49:24
55:6 advantageous amici's 81:10 15:8 18:16 53:4 56:2
49:24 53:4 54:7 81:2 brings 82:6 84:24
14:5 20:12 bit 9:22 68:8 69:21 33:19,23 34:17
76:6 bitter 7:4 19:13 45:1,9,22 46:5
33:22 64:5 16:18 24:9 bronze 13:6 77:13 80:2,9
65:24 38:4,5 budgetary 44:5 22:3 31:12
believe 29:5 blunt 79:18 built 52:15 cause 5:1 29:23
67:10,10 Booker 13:16,22 burned 60:1 29:24 30:3
35:1 benchmark box 82:16 businesses 29:9 center 17:4
62:10 75:21 76:12,15 boy 14:4 50:23,24 centered 37:19
78:20 76:17 Brady 31:17 buy 52:21 central 45:12
83:18 benefits 14:24 bragging 69:25 51:2 57:17
best 8:21 13:9 breast 23:6,24 C 3:1 4:1 certain 18:16
57:7 23:20,24 27:15 calculate 76:2 53:6
80:17,21 12:11,13 15:4 47:11 77:24 calculating 76:9 49:25 57:16
beyond 31:5 Breyer's 26:7 calorie 78:8 challenge 30:14
bill 38:24 39:11 80:13,16 82:5 32:24 40:9,10 36:2 64:4
78:16,16,17,22 briefed 37:5 51:19,20 52:5 challenging 34:5
56:25 billion 42:5,7,8 71:19,21 77:18 84:13 change 30:5
71:22 63:22 68:11 64:6,14,15 complementary 51:1,6,9,11,12
76:15 clearly 13:17 66:3,5 51:18 51:14,21 52:15
Clement 1:25 55:9 17:17,22 46:16 53:1,9 54:8,9
5:21 6:20,24 42:19 47:24 compromise 55:21 56:5,8
8:18,25 9:5,19 46:24 82:10 concede 14:22 57:16,17 58:2
11:7,18 12:16 4:25 5:25 6:4 conceivable 62:14,17 63:5
15:10 16:21 12:1 13:4 concerned 6:22 64:2,22 65:5
18:23 20:8,16,19 24:19 25:7 concerted 27:12 66:8,23 67:3
21:1,7,11 28:10 40:25 conclude 29:1 67:11,17,24
22:19 23:19 53:21 55:24 concluded 68:23 68:6 70:10
29:10 24:14 25:10,11 56:16 57:10 conclusion 71:17,22,23
33:11,16 25:23 26:13,19 60:12 62:25 18:19 69:1 72:15 73:12,12
40:15 27:2,9,24 67:17 68:2 condition 23:1 74:2,9,16
28:16 47:3,8 69:22 70:5 conducive 65:3 77:21 78:22
43:9 81:6,7,9,19,22 75:5 76:6 77:1 conference 79:2,3,4,6,10
49:23 84:21 82:11 83:12,15 47:24 79:14,23 81:10
56:22 clerks 38:20 83:23 84:2 confronted 46:9 81:17,20,25
70:13,18 40:6,10 community-ra... Congress 4:14 83:20 84:6,14
72:13 climb 59:14 12:5 4:17,21 5:16 congressional
81:5,19 close 23:12 community-ra... 5:23 6:1,5,10 9:25 11:1 21:5
84:20 84:18 4:15 11:10 6:22 7:4,11,16 35:15,17 67:16
73:21 30:18 31:9 57:6 83:5 7:25 8:4,7,8,12 6:7 7:5 41:7,10
84:14 closer 75:5 companies 9:1,8,11,12,17 50:13 51:21
cobble 27:23 36:17 42:22 10:5,11,19 52:1,4,11
coherent 22:7 54:10 57:25 13:19 14:9,24 56:1 59:25
14:6 comparable 32:24 33:3,5 34:17 44:17,20
64:6,14 73:16 75:15 compare 12:5 35:18 36:17,19 conservative
65:1 79:8 31:12 39:6 41:1,12 15:8
comes 49:4 comparisons 41:23 43:15 consider 28:23
77:13 competence 46:22 48:19 33:7,24 35:2
81:3 Corn 10:14 66:23,24 69:17 covers 61:12 17:18 28:5
28:25 10:23 17:10 71:19,20,22,24 crashes 59:19 decided 13:16
correct 39:6,7 72:15,18,19 create 61:10 decision 35:15
70:17 77:21 75:1,22 77:14 creates 40:22 74:11 84:24
28:25 29:16 53:5,9 83:19 84:5,10 28:11 50:22 declaring 8:3
15:22,24 78:9,13,14 courts 49:19 24:22 31:1 deemed 41:1
49:25 costs 6:23 42:4,6 Court's 9:20 52:8,9 56:12 defense 73:4
55:24 62:15 34:16 35:14 criminalizing 74:2
67:13 39:15 44:1,5 critical 24:21 deficit 73:14
79:7 66:5 83:24 65:9
country 52:24 2:6 3:10 57:1 curiae 2:6 3:10 delighted 11:19
couple 5:21,22 cover 49:7,7 57:1 democracy 20:5
50:12,15 course 6:7,8 8:5 coverage 5:14 cut 7:8 14:7,12 22:13 74:3
85:2 19:14 70:15 8:1 28:24 33:9 35:8 43:23 denies 31:13
4:11 8:20,24 48:22 49:2,4 D Deputy 2:2
12:21 14:4,8 53:12,18,20 4:1,8 81:7 designed 50:20
78:2 20:6 21:17,20 57:9,18,18 34:23 destroying
21:21 22:6,9 58:20 60:2,4 dare 22:5 78:15
28:21,22 29:1 63:8 64:3,24 day 8:9 24:3 50:1
31:17,20 33:2 68:1,3,12 deal 26:24 60:19 65:13,16
33:3,4,7,25 69:24 70:4 84:6 differ 23:15
84:9 37:4,5,7,15 73:15 75:1 60:14 54:1 64:7
45:13,15 47:22 80:22,23 81:11 debate 5:2,3,4 13:18 14:11
51:10 57:3 covered 49:20 decades 21:8,8,8 20:6 35:11
63:9 district 23:11 effective 64:11 equals 43:22 6:15 11:24
72:7 dividing 11:15 effectively 56:16 equitable 35:25 12:1,2,6,7,12
40:23 83:1,10 64:16 ERISA 66:17 12:14,20,25
doctors 23:7,25 72:10 ESQ 1:25 2:2,5 24:20,21,24
47:22 56:19,19 effectuating essential 4:17 32:3 68:18
74:9 doubt 53:7 efficient 62:4 39:6 41:2,23 excised 45:23
dozen 60:18 effort 27:12 41:25 45:19 excluded 57:11
draw 75:8 either 62:24 65:10 66:9,11 63:23 70:4
driving 57:8 embodied 51:14 essentially 58:13 34:16 36:21
72:13 DSH 25:3 24:24,25,25 77:16 79:20 exercising 36:14
D.C 1:18,25 2:3 56:17 82:13 expand 52:5
38:5 E 3:1 4:1,1 56:10,11 23:8 78:8 expansion 42:8
72:3,6 76:14 enact 64:6 72:11 11:5 58:10 43:10
easy 13:5 26:22 31:7,9,11 69:25 75:15 expected 81:1
40:6,10,10,21 enacting 63:5 67:23 expenditure
echoing 36:11 enforceable exact 66:13,15 expenditures
66:12 68:25 enforcement 19:15 37:3 84:10
5:17,17 42:3 enhance 50:20 example 12:13 52:16 55:7
80:13,16 enormously 22:5 30:4 expertise 54:14
EDWIN 2:2 3:6 enrollment 46:3 54:5 57:7 explain 34:17
effect 35:5,6 entire 29:2 66:22 72:23 exploring 47:9
57:24 Florida 1:12 4:6 General 2:2 17:1 19:22
69:16 38:11 39:25 18:11 23:20 generous 61:5 39:8,23,24
76:17 40:2 42:18 24:15 25:25 germane 16:22 42:23 43:23
25:15 figures 5:7 follows 69:17 83:18 69:18 71:2
29:3 42:20 71:20 Ginsburg 14:20 72:1,20 73:1
48:17,19 final 82:22 footnote 19:13 15:10 32:15 73:14,17,20
56:4 finance 21:18 force 4:25 8:4 55:2 57:21 75:13,14,18
67:8 finances 42:18 forever 32:7 58:5 76:5,20 81:15
financial 54:24 formulate 9:21 give 7:17,17,20 82:23 84:8
find 10:15 11:14 19:10 26:21 37:20 good 15:1 57:8
47:16 60:7 63:11,17 5:11,11 6:10 given 22:21 40:5 governing 52:15
57:2 64:8 66:7,7 72:8 80:2 gives 65:7 4:14 24:17
59:3,9 67:9 77:20 four 22:11 81:23 giving 84:16 32:6 43:1
60:6 82:19 frankly 15:3 go 17:5,25 21:8 57:20 61:12,15
65:8,14 findings 5:9 full 73:13 23:11 27:18 62:2,5,6 64:8
67:14 11:12 41:10 fully 28:25 30:19 33:11 75:9,11 76:12
69:3,6,11 53:20 59:25 function 12:6,8 38:15,23 40:1 76:20 82:25
71:4,20 64:2 65:23,25 12:9,9 17:13 40:17 42:17 Government's
74:6,20 67:16 69:10 18:2 38:20 44:24 46:13 6:9 43:10 57:5
76:21 fine 28:8 39:14,15 44:1 53:22 59:17 63:12 69:17,18
78:19 finish 17:1 26:17 44:22 54:22 62:10 63:7 70:6,14 75:7
39:8 80:18 functionally 70:7,11 71:22 78:2 82:5
80:8,20 first 5:22 11:21 14:18 72:14 76:18 governs 11:1
83:22 13:24 30:1 fundamental 81:11 83:8 gradually 59:11
33:20 42:16 50:4 goal 4:22 7:5 grateful 84:25
30:15 70:15 76:4 funded 80:6 goals 57:17 gross 74:4
62:13 82:6 further 50:9 81:17 ground 11:4
73:23 fit 75:2 52:10 59:17 goes 32:1 64:19 82:10
20:2 22:11,18 83:13 guarantee 11:16
28:10 34:13 46:20 hollowed-out 44:1 56:11 42:7,12 43:1
53:21 harder 75:8,9 17:6 23:22 81:11 43:23 53:11,11
55:17,24 head 65:24 26:3 imposed 24:25 53:24 59:7
57:9 headed 66:1 honestly 63:15 60:13 62:3 71:18
64:11 health 1:8,15 Honor 74:6 79:7 impossible 6:3 76:19 82:10
68:2 7:20 13:2 Honors 81:4 77:23 84:1,2,18
70:4,5 14:23 15:3 hospital 60:23 impression individualized
76:5 77:1 27:16 50:18,18 hospitals 25:3,4 24:12 46:6 13:3,3 76:7
83:23 52:18 54:5 house 51:12 Improvement individuals
57:14 59:7 84:5,12 14:23 82:18
25:19 76:18 84:13 HUMAN 1:8,16 77:18 inertia 8:15,21
57:6 73:5 healthy 49:10 hurt 30:15 inclination inextricably
59:6,15 60:20 Husker 10:15 79:19 32:9
hear 23:12 47:3 53:7 71:7 include 28:11 32:24
73:22 heard 29:24 17:10 34:15 includes 10:6 61:22
77:5 40:18 79:4 income 61:10,11 information
26:10,21 35:7 idea 9:6 29:11 21:3,6 initial 29:5
48:6,8 identified 37:4 56:7 61:15 inject 74:17
78:15,17 80:3 82:13 73:11 74:22 52:1 54:14
22:4 34:3 73:7 II 22:25 25:21 4:5 14:18 73:6
help 18:5 III 2:5 3:9 34:12 independently insignificant
48:9,23 helpful 72:17 34:14 56:25 12:23 17:22 68:24
60:18 helping 24:7 illnesses 64:12 80:6 instance 5:12
54:2 58:18 59:8 imagine 32:1 78:6 institution 32:21
history 17:25 immediately indication 50:4 23:10
71:6 56:3 69:20 44:6 82:9 48:16 36:17 41:14
hoc 67:23 important 28:8 indispensable 42:4,5,13,21
60:17 holding 13:23 58:8 61:4,13 individual 4:12 49:2,11,16,21
58:12 10:7 11:16 10:10,18,24 65:17 67:13,14 Kneedler 2:2
59:12 12:1 24:17,18 11:7,18 12:7 67:15 68:22 3:6 28:17,18
62:20 25:8 28:10 12:16 13:11,21 69:4,7 70:12 28:20 29:19
68:18,21 31:7 37:9,13 14:20 15:10 70:13,18 71:5 30:1,12,23
71:16 37:19 40:25 16:11,21 17:7 71:14 72:13 31:15 32:13,15
53:21 54:15 17:8,10 18:5,7 73:9 74:13,21 33:4,12,15,18
55:24 56:16 18:10,14,23,25 74:24 76:21,22 34:10,18,22,23
76:19 57:10 60:13 19:5,9,12,19 77:5,24 78:1 35:24 36:7,23
73:1 75:5 76:6 22:20,22 23:20 81:9,20,22,23 39:7,16,18,21
17:23 83:23 84:2 25:24 26:7,11 Justices 18:16 41:6,10,17,22
22:23 issues 28:23 26:16,17 27:8 38:7 42:16 43:4,12
44:2 30:5 27:10,15,25 justiciability 43:14 44:4,10
75:14 item 38:24,24 28:15,20 29:10 33:6 37:24 44:14,18,25
17:13 31:6,21,22,24 K 46:7,13 47:21
21:5 J 31:25 32:15,18 Kagan 11:7,18 48:2,7,10,13
51:6,14 J 11:22 33:11,12,16 12:7,16 13:11 49:5,12,15
82:21 jewel 69:23 34:1,14,15,22 13:21 21:6,12 50:2 51:4,10
jewels 83:24 34:24 36:5,7,9 22:19 39:16,19 52:3,23 53:8
17:4 join 61:8 37:1,8,12,18 59:9,21,23 55:5 56:23
39:10 judges 14:7 39:5,16,19,22 1:7 know 5:10 9:12
judgment 14:11 40:6,9,15,19 keep 17:6 28:7 13:7 14:8
34:17 41:16,18 42:1 83:2 17:22 18:3
67:1,6 35:25 36:5,10 43:13,18,20 18:7,10,14,25 23:2,15 24:11
44:13 45:17 46:1,5,8 36:5,9,10,24 37:20 41:3
jurisdictional 49:9,13,23 52:19 53:4 63:16 65:17,22
Justice 2:3 4:3 55:2 56:22 key 24:22,24 83:3
6:3,12 9:9,20,23 10:2 65:8,9,12,15 kinds 15:11 23:3 lack 44:11
80:25 69:20 83:20 29:15 42:7,12 17:2 19:17
31:7,9,11 74:11 82:10 84:1,3 26:6,14 27:2
38:17,21 37:18 72:18 16:24 38:9 71:17 38:12 39:22
47:10 73:9 78:1 44:20,21 63:6 mandates 16:3 42:16 44:24
61:23 level 21:2 24:5 67:24 76:1,2 72:11 46:21 47:11
69:5 light 8:22 81:3 mandatory 5:14 50:5 51:5
limit 22:15 36:1 looks 9:7 59:25 8:1 13:20 61:24 65:1
30:22 35:25 80:15 73:15 71:9 75:11
35:9,13 limp 12:22 Lopez 64:17 manner 4:20 77:22 82:16
38:20 line 7:11,13 66:13,15 12:24 13:13,18 meaning 64:15
51:11,13 11:15 17:1 Los 34:20 14:9 19:3,15 67:25
54:24 29:18 40:18,23 lost 42:13 69:13 March 1:19 means 10:20
64:6 67:7 41:4,9 50:10 69:15,18 market 4:25 40:17 64:16,22
73:20 61:6 62:14 lot 13:12 16:13 12:4 46:16 65:2
34:25 19:17 lower 57:12 59:17,18 77:19 42:25 43:2,10
45:3,4 list 47:11 58:19 59:2,3 77:20 82:20 43:15 52:11
53:21 litigation 29:13 82:21 markets 57:11 54:11
77:25 29:18,21 71:1 lowered 53:5 64:11 Medicare 25:3
68:8 69:15 24:9 27:18 55:22 49:18,20,20
23:22 loaf 12:11,11,11 72:11 15:18 68:17
45:8 12:13,13,17 M master 23:10 menus 78:8
77:15 22:4 48:9 magnitude 5:3 materials 67:21 merits 38:5
long 52:17 56:10 main 45:8 mathematical middle 16:16
27:11 look 7:5,25 9:10 majority 14:1 matter 1:21 7:13 million 42:12
70:25 9:11,20 11:15 29:7 45:18 8:6 10:7 17:12 48:23 49:15,21
11:21 15:25 51:11 78:3 18:2 29:5 52:24
11:3 22:15,22 23:2 33:6 38:8 39:9 47:23 49:19
16:25 25:2 38:10 mandate 4:12 73:18 85:4 57:11,12
18:17,18 39:5,11,23 4:16,17,25 6:1 matters 37:23 mind 58:9 77:14
20:7 40:4,5 44:5,22 6:4,11 7:15 8:8 53:22 minimum 7:9
39:11 50:15 51:19,22 11:11,23 12:9 mean 6:14,17 28:24 33:9
50:3,4 54:22 63:22 22:24,25 24:16 7:3 8:17 10:13 40:23,24 41:11
48:20,22 necessity 79:18 offering 52:8,9 56:25 party 17:15,16
50:6,19 need 17:10 offset 42:6 order 5:2 82:20 32:19 33:25,25
49:11 72:1 offsets 16:4 ordinarily 48:3 pass 17:23
57:8 83:20 off-the-cuff original 81:15 passage 27:11
60:2,4 needed 81:13 24:12 26:7 ought 30:19 passed 5:14 7:1
63:7 needy 25:5 oh 79:21 83:4 57:7 10:19 13:19
66:11 never 29:24 35:6okay 10:12,15 outset 57:4 16:9,12 17:20
67:20 35:17 36:17 10:16 13:5 out-of-pocket 19:7 27:7,13
39:22 46:25 14:21 19:23 62:15 39:12 51:11,13
70:4 new 20:11,13 22:24 23:1 overall 62:5 51:15 68:9
75:1 36:18 42:7 24:4,10 25:3 overturn 35:10 passes 46:22
77:3 73:19 77:14 old 57:13 59:14 path 8:4 9:2
78:25 nice 58:2 70:7,11 P patient 4:22 7:6
81:11 nondiscrimin... older 59:11 P 4:1 51:18,23 83:21
60:5 76:25 once 19:6 28:4 package 34:8 83:25
note 80:16 82:10 56:4 60:4 70:1 3:12 4:8 81:7
notion 48:18 51:9 68:16 63:23 75:23 76:13,20 82:2
17:16,16 58:21 12:23,24 13:18 parallel 31:16 people 4:25 5:19
73:15 81:3 43:11 46:17 part 13:24 14:16 40:5 41:13
numerous 65:2 operated 13:14 25:5 51:2 48:23 49:15
nurses 23:6 14:17 42:19 62:11 63:15 50:25 51:1
38:3 objective 18:1,2 15:7 68:18 82:11,17 58:9,11,16,21
18:14,15,20,22 opinion 14:15 participants 59:5,10,13,14
66:2,17 obviously 58:12 opt 62:8 31:1 74:8 percent 5:7 61:5
64:25,25 occasions 65:2 oral 1:21 3:2,5,8 parts 16:12 61:17
offer 52:7 4:8 28:18 17:12 79:15 perfect 12:12
33:5 34:11 poverty 61:6 prior 45:1 52:16 proposition 9:16
53:16 61:25 35:25 36:12,15 probability 10:16
28:1,6,7 66:8 70:3 44:13 64:6 probably 80:10 14:7
77:12 80:14 powers 22:3,14 problem 8:12 protection 4:22
2:1 3:4,13 pointed 11:12 practice 21:7 57:24 59:9 protections
29:2,8 81:8 23:5 40:22 preceding 66:6 63:8,20 67:15 56:15
68:15 81:23 preferred 45:13 problems 20:3 proves 21:13
policy 13:6,6,7 premium 58:4 17:19 13:4 36:19
30:1,6 political 39:13 7:9 58:1,7 process 16:6 providing 4:22
33:20 politics 79:22 61:14 82:21 35:16,17 39:11 7:5
44:5 pool 59:5,10 present 55:12,16 70:19 74:3,17 provision 5:14
77:16 82:19 presumably products 75:15 7:19,24 8:1
75:23 position 25:13 presumption programs 62:24 27:18 28:24
54:20 57:5 pretty 23:12 promise 23:4 30:14 33:9,19
71:5,11 72:13 49:21 promoted 19:25 36:1,15 40:23
36:8 74:7 price 24:23 43:25 64:25 50:22 51:22
57:3 possible 47:8 27:16 56:8 70:8 78:21 52:18 53:2,12
58:2 60:14 57:22 58:13,14 properly 33:7 53:18 55:14
16:7 30:22 32:5 prices 5:11,18 70:6 60:14,16 63:8
21:14 66:18 57:13,19 propose 23:16 64:4,21,24
26:7,15 post 67:23 principal 81:25 23:19 66:11,21 68:12
27:3 postpone 60:7 Printz 31:16 proposed 25:16 69:24 71:7,10
73:4,5,7 79:10,10 82:18 Randall 21:17 22:2 36:18 reject 29:2 47:5
75:2,24 82:20 range 70:24 45:17,18 49:5 rejected 6:1,6
puts 73:12 ratchet 20:21 53:10 64:13 rejects 14:1
77:15 rates 17:17 30:6 79:1,17 82:24 related 22:8
78:25 Q 30:8 49:18,20 reasons 33:5 26:9,9 31:8
83:5 quarrel 74:24 53:22 55:22 65:22 72:19 relatively 75:13
9:12,13 question 6:2 59:1,3,6,8,14 16:13 relevant 5:23
10:8 7:13,16 8:13 59:17 76:18 reauthorized relief 33:24
13:10,16 8:19,21 10:5 rating 4:20 5:1 16:14 34:19 36:3
15:12,18 12:10,21 13:13 5:25 6:4,12 reauthorizing rely 14:15 19:13
16:24 14:25 17:3,5 12:1 13:4 14:22 63:18
21:18,19 18:4 20:9,10 24:18,19 25:7 rebuttal 3:11 relying 55:2
25:19 20:10 22:20,21 28:10 41:1 81:7,23 82:7 64:9
27:14,19 29:6 33:1,13 53:21 55:25 rebutted 20:14 remainder
29:7 35:11 37:9 56:16 57:10 recognize 8:20 28:14
31:6,8 38:6,7 40:13 60:13 62:25 recommended remained 36:16
32:20 40:16,19 43:20 69:22 70:5 25:18 45:16
33:8 45:6 47:3 50:3 75:5 76:6 77:1 reconsider remaining 9:15
36:13 51:10 54:16 82:11 83:12,15 35:19,20 71:12 81:6
68:5 69:14 83:23 84:2 record 67:21 remains 61:17
45:12 70:9 72:13,20 ratings 11:16 redo 14:24 remedial 9:7
48:21 76:1,4 77:5 67:18 68:2 reduces 74:21 13:23 34:16
79:1,25 81:24 ratio 72:7 redux 28:13 35:25
51:2 questioning rational 17:12 references 83:17 repeal 73:16,18
53:6 71:15 18:2 referring 66:16 73:19
55:14 questions 5:21 reach 18:20 70:14 repeatedly
57:6,9 34:13,13 37:4 reached 14:16 reflected 53:19 30:24
68:16 37:14 72:3 reaching 50:1 59:24 report 47:25
77:1,4,7 quickly 27:7 read 11:23 23:3 refocus 77:5 68:8
78:5,13 quite 6:2 27:6 41:5 80:1 83:3 reforms 40:24 request 45:4
79:2 36:14 52:19 reading 23:17 42:4 46:17 requesting 15:7
83:16 55:3 63:15,22 77:20 refused 21:10 require 80:7
78:4 realistic 47:22 regardless 63:1 64:10 66:10,14
45:8 52:1 R 4:1 12:25 16:18 66:25 67:1 reserve 28:14
81:12 Raich 66:24 19:18 26:10 regulatory residuum 84:15
51:18 raised 57:13 45:7 46:2,5 reimbursed resolved 38:9
35:12 raising 62:15 82:12 reimbursement 52:3 61:2 64:7
73:21 rampant 60:17 reason 21:10 30:4,6,8 49:20 78:15
3:7 28:19 16:11 18:23 17:10 18:5 66:9 shell 16:7,9,12
15:11 27:10 28:15 31:6,25 34:22 13:17 14:5 26:3 48:9
84:25 33:16 36:9 38:22 40:9 separate 17:12 40:1
25:15 41:16,18 42:1 46:1,5,8 47:24 separated 34:8 55:15
43:7,8 42:24 43:9,13 49:1 50:25 separately 16:17 show 60:23,23
45:4,7,9 49:23 51:16 51:5 58:23 80:6 71:25
63:14 56:22 70:13,18 59:1 61:20,25 separation 22:3 showing 73:12
71:14 80:19 65:6,8,9,12,15 22:14 74:2
81:5 84:20 65:17 73:9 serve 23:7,25 shown 56:2
rule 20:11,13 79:10,13 66:17 side 21:24 33:1
ruling 74:10 77:5 1:16 80:17
scratch 15:1 sever 13:16 69:12
salvage 15:8,9 66:9,22 70:14 severability 9:7 simple 39:1
saver 6:18,19 SECRETARY 15:20 19:11 simplest 19:22
10:3,4,10 22:22 29:13 section 64:17 29:24 31:19 60:13 63:6
11:9 46:25 47:4 66:24 32:14 33:23,23 67:2 72:14
21:7,11 49:10 50:2 see 13:5 32:8 37:4 38:6,8,12 81:24 84:5,16
27:24 52:20 54:13 39:11 65:4 39:19 45:5 single 14:3
40:13 67:3 68:23 seek 71:22 47:6 63:24 25:15 34:4,6
48:10,13 74:18 77:21 seeking 53:1 70:9 72:21 sit 32:6
60:24 says 9:12 19:14 seeks 36:3 74:11 78:21 situation 7:22
69:3 19:20,23 20:12 seen 60:11 72:5 79:18 80:2 13:2 37:3
25:20,21 32:1 segue 21:14 83:9 84:24 39:13 84:7
65:24 66:9 60:8,16,19 severed 77:8 skyrocket 5:2
68:24 81:10 82:7 selling 62:21 73:10 slightly 11:2
70:12 83:1 Senate 10:21 SG 23:13 68:1 small 50:22,24
scale 20:22 73:18 share 25:4 52:8
63:24 spoke 57:23 stay 79:22 83:13 subsidies 61:2,4 Supreme 1:1,22
72:24 standard 17:11 51:17 subsidizes 62:14 surely 16:23
standardized strange 33:22 73:24 75:19,19 27:14 31:25
65:8 31:3 32:21,22 strike 7:14,24 43:21 68:24 57:15 58:19
25:25 standpoint 15:19 21:20,25 substantially 62:8 64:23
37:20 22:14 22:7 25:18,20 54:3 70:7,11 73:23
68:19 start 8:2 11:5,7 25:21 26:14 substantive systems 72:4
83:14 15:1 61:14 28:13 35:16 44:23
6:13,21 started 32:18 46:19 80:4 Sub-finding T 3:1,1
7:10,23 starting 26:7 81:17,18 84:1 82:5
9:1 17:7
20:8 60:2 striking 6:19 sufficient 67:12
22:21
32:18 66:5 strong 16:7 16:18 18:11 46:11 53:20
37:8,12 States 1:1,22 strongest 15:14 23:9 25:22,24 55:25 62:1
38:2 5:10,24 6:18 struck 10:13 36:13 65:22
72:20
48:5,8
55:7 60:1 14:3 21:17 83:10 74:14 75:1,4
49:9,13 60:12 62:17,19 22:9 23:13 suggested 39:23 76:12 77:15
69:7 62:23 63:2,6 26:21 29:17 50:10 80:12 82:18
67:4 72:4,8 30:18 31:17 suggesting 8:23 taken 7:19
statute 7:18 8:11 43:11 45:7,15 suggestion talk 21:4 58:7
45:13,23 51:3 38:12 44:22 support 61:21 32:17 44:19
73:5 74:15 61:9 67:23 supports 13:22 70:12 72:6
63:25 82:11 83:21 stuck 84:9 suppose 17:15 80:17,20,21
statute's 74:15 56:12 supposed 12:3,4 talks 9:24 47:5
84:14,16 36:4 46:25 67:12,19 68:4 81:16,21 15:19 17:21
59:12 61:19 70:8 71:5 total 24:12 31:10 32:4
28:11 76:17 80:3,15 74:1 75:2,4,7,8 toto 35:20 71:9 73:8
32:1,1 things 7:2,7,8 75:12 77:10,12 touched 21:20 84:19
11:20 14:21 78:19,21 79:17 traditional 56:9 undercut 64:20
53:3 15:2 16:20 80:8,10,16 56:12 64:23 66:14
56:9,11 20:6 30:5 83:4,19 84:17 traffic 66:25 underserved
35:21 47:5,12 thinking 31:21 67:6,7,8 23:7,25 24:8
56:4 58:6,17 75:10 true 5:6 10:2 43:19 52:19,22
41:20 72:5 77:12 thought 9:11 62:1 65:15 understood
think 5:23 7:2,3 14:9 39:1,8 78:4 76:21
9:4 10:24 11:8 thoughts 71:2 39:25 42:18 13:4 76:19
18:18 20:19 thrown 49:16 tumbling 73:23 67:4 77:14
23:14 21:11,12,13,16 ticks 20:22 turn 24:21 38:5 unobjectionable
21:22 22:2,13 tied 11:11 15:23 47:15 63:11 27:21
38:10,11 30:23 31:25 60:24,25 68:11 33:5 37:14 34:25 38:23
42:17 32:13 33:4,8 72:23 84:7 48:12,23 49:12 51:7
48:14 33:14 34:24 times 18:9 38:3 49:15 51:17 unrelated 17:17
55:6 35:24 36:23 43:16 55:14 57:9 46:16 50:19
37:1,23 38:7 title 25:5,20,21 58:6 63:4 68:3 52:12
63:16 40:20 41:22,22 51:17 66:24 79:14 25:25
44:4,18 45:10 titles 22:25 type 71:18 22:12
81:4,5 46:17,21 47:8 today 49:13 59:19 61:21
47:21 48:11 71:15 74:25 U unwind 49:19
20:23 56:3 57:5 77:9 79:18 uncommon use 26:7 30:4
22:4 59:23 60:10 81:14,18,25,25 46:22 56:9 67:25
29:15 63:12,20 65:4 82:1,2,2 unconstitutio... useful 64:16
67:11 27:3,25 28:7 72:20,25 73:2 Y 32:1 62:21
28:12 32:23 73:11 84:9 year 23:17 60:25 250 62:13
77:25 whatnot 52:15 68:18 84:6,11 2700 16:17
34:21 wanted 8:10 9:9 willing 73:2 York 77:14
9:18 21:23 wise 37:15 young 59:15 3
78:12 55:13 57:16 word 14:3 23:4 30 5:8
18:8 74:16 75:22 9:15 12:3 $3.2 48:25 350 42:6,8,9,12
Washington 19:18 24:20 $350 42:14 43:22,22
35:14,18 47:17 82:2 83:17 83:12,17 43 66:8
70:22 67:4 69:3 works 7:7 59:12 42:15 54:7
75:19 world 30:20
83:14 worse 12:18
1:13 4:6 6
6 83:8
85:3 60 73:17,19
79:7 wellness 78:7 27:22 39:20
52:23 60-year-old
81:11 wreck 33:2 2 64a 75:23
17:16 48:23 68a 75:25 76:8
73:17 we'll 21:24 60:3 write 68:23
83:13,16
38:16
8:3 9:5,16 19:19 20:24 7 19:13 43:23
18:4 21:1 42:11,21
32:17
38:23 80 61:6
10:9 12:10 x 1:2,9,11,17 2012 1:19 73:8
44:15,16 801 66:24
17:25 32:2,2,4 2014 72:23
51:6 81 3:13
19:21 2020 81:1
63:17
26:5 Y 21 66:24 9
71:15
60:12 62:23
64:17
