IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ABIGAIL NOEL FISHER, :
Petitioner : No. 11-345
v. :
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN, :
ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, October 10, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
BERT W. REIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United
States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
BERT W. REIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 31
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ
For United States, as amicus curiae, 59
supporting the Respondents
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
BERT W. REIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 72
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:04 a.m.)
MR. REIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I get to say
that this is Case Number 11-345, Fisher against the
University of Texas at Austin. And you get to say --
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BERT W. REIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. REIN: Mr. -- Mr. -- General Suter
trained me too well.
Mr. Chief Justice, and members of the Court,
and may it please the Court:
The central issue here is whether the
University of Texas at Austin can carry its burden
approving that its use of race as an admissions-plus
factor in the consequent denial of equal treatment,
which is the central mandate of the Equal Protection
Clause, to Abigail Fisher met the two tests of strict
scrutiny which are applicable.
First --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rein, before we get
to that, because the Court is supposed to raise it on
its own, the question of -- of standing. The injury --
if the injury is rejection by the University of Texas,
and the answer is, no matter what, this person would not
have been accepted, then how is the injury caused by the
affirmative action program?
MR. REIN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, the first
injury that was before the Court was the use of a system
which denied equal treatment. It was a Constitutional
injury, and part of the damage claim was premised
directly on the Constitutional issue.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do you get past
Texas v. Lesage with that injury --
MR. REIN: Lesage --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- which says that mere
use of race is not cognizable injury sufficient for
standing.
MR. REIN: Lesage was litigated on its
merits, and the question was whether Lesage could carry
his case when -- on summary judgment, when it was
apparent that his complaint, which was that he was
denied access to the graduate program at the University
of Texas, was not sustainable.
As I said -- and there are several factors
in this case that are quite different. First, there is
a Constitutional injury as such, and the Court has
recognized it.
Second, the fact premise, she could not have
been allowed in under any circumstance, was never tested
below, wasn't raised below. It comes up in a footnote
in --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I go to another
side? She's graduated.
MR. REIN: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: She disclaimed the
desire, after her application, to go to the school at
all. She was permitted to apply for the summer program
and get in automatically, and she didn't, correct?
MR. REIN: No, that's not correct,
Your Honor. She -- she was not automatically admitted.
She was considered for the summer program and rejected.
You are talking about the CAP program, where
she could have attended a different university in the
Texas system, and had she been able to achieve --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But she's graduated.
MR. REIN: She has graduated.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Injunctive relief, she's
not going to get. So what measure of damages will she
get or will she be entitled to?
MR. REIN: Well, that issue, of course, is
bifurcated, and we've reserved the ability to --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you have to claim an
injury. So what's the injury --
MR. REIN: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that you're claiming
that would sustain a claim of damages?
MR. REIN: The -- the denial of her right to
equal treatment is a Constitutional injury in and of
itself, and we had claimed certain damages on that.
We -- we started the case before it was clear whether
she would or wouldn't be admitted.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You still haven't
answered how Lesage gets away from that --
MR. REIN: Well, Lesage --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- but if there's a --
give me another --
MR. REIN: Well, I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- damages question.
MR. REIN: On the -- if we then, on remand,
were to assert damages contingent upon the fact that she
should have been admitted to UT and was not admitted, we
would then have to prove that, but for the use of race,
she would be admitted. That's the thrust of Lesage.
Whether we can prove it or can't prove it is
something you can't tell on this record. It's merely
asserted. And I would point out that Texas said below,
there was no way to determine that issue without --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What damages --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We've had cases involving
alleged discrimination in state -- state contracting.
And we haven't required the person who was discriminated
against because of race to prove that he would have
gotten the contract otherwise, have we?
MR. REIN: No, sir.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's -- it's been enough
that there was a denial of equal protection.
MR. REIN: That is our correct, and that is
our first premise. And I would say that the same issue
was raised in Bakke. And in Bakke, the contention was
he couldn't have gotten into the medical school;
therefore, he has no case. The Court said, in footnote
14 to Justice Powell's opinion, that's a matter of
merits; it is not a matter of standing.
I think in -- in Parents Involved, the same
type of contention was made with respect to the
Louisville class plaintiffs, whose son had been admitted
to the school of his choice, and the Court said damages
are enough to sustain standing. There is a live damages
claim here, and I don't think there is a question of
standing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Her claim is not
necessarily that she would have been -- would have been
admitted, but that she was denied a fair chance in the
admission lottery. Just as when a person is denied
participation in the contracting lottery, he has
suffered an injury.
MR. REIN: Yes, Justice Scalia, I agree with
that.
JUSTICE BREYER: If you are going to the --
to the merits, I want to know whether you want us to --
or are asking us to overrule Grutter. Grutter said it
would be good law for at least 25 years. And I know
that time flies, but I think only nine of those years
have passed.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: And so, are you? And, if
so, why overrule a case into which so much thought and
effort went and so many people across the country have
depended on?
MR. REIN: Justice Breyer, we had said, very
carefully, we were not trying to change the Court's
disposition of the issue in Grutter. Could there be a
legitimate -- a compelling interest in -- in moving --
in using race to establish a diverse class.
What -- the problem that we've encountered
throughout the case is there are varying understandings,
not of the legitimacy of the interest, but how you get
there; is it necessary to use race to achieve that
interest; what does a critical mass --
JUSTICE BREYER: So your question is
whether -- your point is does your case satisfy Grutter?
Is that what you're arguing?
MR. REIN: We litigated it on that basis,
yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, how do you want to
argue it right now in the next ten minutes? I'm
interested because I have a very short time to get my
question out, and I need to know how you are going to
argue it.
MR. REIN: Well, Justice Breyer, our
argument is we can satisfy Grutter if it's properly
read. What we've seen --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you on that
specifically, let's take away the 10 percent solution.
Suppose the only plan were the one that is before the
Court now, no 10 percent. This is the exclusive way
that the University is attempting to increase minority
enrollment.
Then, if we had no 10 percent solution,
under Grutter, would this plan be acceptable?
MR. REIN: Well, I think that there would be
flaws under Grutter, even if you assumed away something
that can't be assumed away because it is a matter of
Texas law, that is, there is a top 10 percent program,
and that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, then the -- the
question is can you have both? But it seems to me that
this program is certainly no more aggressive than the
one in -- in Grutter; it's more -- in fact, more modest.
MR. REIN: Well, I don't agree with that,
and let me explain why.
In order to satisfy Grutter, you first have
to say that you are not just using race gratuitously,
but it is in the interest of producing a critical mass
of otherwise underrepresented students. And so to -- to
be within Grutter framework, the first question is,
absent the use of race, would we be generating a
critical mass?
To answer that question, you start -- you've
got to examine in context the so-called soft factors
that are in Grutter -- you know, are -- is there an
isolation on campus? Do members of minority feel that
they cannot speak out?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The one social studies
that this University did said that minority students,
overwhelmingly, even with the numbers they have now, are
feeling isolated. So what do -- why isn't that even
under your test?
We can go back to whether substantial
evidence is adequate, is necessary, or not. Why does
their test fail?
MR. REIN: Well, the survey was -- a random
survey. It's not reported in any systematic way. They
evidently interviewed students. And it was all about
classroom isolation. It wasn't about --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was it -- was it done
before or after they announced the decision to
reinstitute racial --
MR. REIN: It was done after
President Faulkner had made the declaration they were
going to do it. It was done before --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which came almost
immediately after our decision in Grutter.
MR. REIN: On the -- I believe, on the same
day.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And by the way, do you
think that Grutter -- this goes to Justice Breyer's
question -- do you think that Grutter held that there is
no more affirmative action in higher education after
2028?
MR. REIN: No, I don't.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was that the holding of
Grutter?
MR. REIN: That was -- that was not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a scary -- that's a
scary --
JUSTICE BREYER: I agree it might, but I
want to get to the question, so, what I'm trying to
pinpoint, because we have such a limited time, and to
me, the one thing I want to pinpoint, since you're
arguing on that this satisfies Grutter, if properly
understood, as you say that. In looking up, we have a
two-court rule.
And two courts have found, it seems to me,
that here, there is a certain thing -- there is no
quota. It is individualized. It is time limited. It
was adopted after the consideration of race-neutral
means. Each applicant receives individual
consideration, and race did not become the predominant
factor.
So I take those as a given. And then I want
to know what precisely it is that Grutter required in
your opinion that makes this different from Grutter, in
that it was not satisfied here? The ones I listed, two
courts say are the same. So maybe there's some others.
MR. REIN: I'm not sure we agree with those
courts in their method of analysis.
JUSTICE BREYER: But we have a rule that if
two courts say it, we're very reluctant, on something
connected with facts, to overturn it, so -- so that's
why I mention that.
MR. REIN: Well -- and -- particularly in
the case of considering alternatives that have worked
about as well, I think that's a legal question this
Court is free to act on.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There are facts, and there
are facts, aren't there?
MR. REIN: So if I might try to answer your
question, there was no effort in this case to establish
a -- even a working target for critical mass. They
simply ignored it. They just used words, and they said,
we've got to do more. So they never answered the
predicate question, which Grutter asks: Absent the use
of race, can we generate a critical mass?
So -- I mean, that's -- that's a flaw we
think is in Grutter. We think it's necessary for this
Court to restate that principle. Now, whether that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that's a normal
fact that we accede to two-court holdings on, whether
there is -- is or is not a critical mass?
MR. REIN: No. I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a weird kind of a
fact.
MR. REIN: And I'm -- I'm not saying --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's an estimation, isn't
it? A judgment?
MR. REIN: Well, Justice Scalia, that is
correct. And in addition, the courts didn't find
whether a critical mass --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So could you tell me
what a critical mass was? I'm looking at the number of
blacks in the University of Texas system. Pre-Grutter,
when the state was indisputably still segregating, it
was 4 percent. Today, under the post-Grutter system,
it's 6 percent. The 2 percent increase is enough for
you, even though the state population is at 12 percent?
Somehow, they've reached a critical mass with just the
2 percent increase?
MR. REIN: Well, we don't believe that
demographics are the key to underrepresentation of
critical mass.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No -- putting aside -- I
don't -- I'm not going to quarrel with you that, if
demographics alone were being used, I would be somewhat
concerned. But you can't seriously suggest that
demographics aren't a factor to be looked at in
combination with how isolated or not isolated your
student body is actually reporting itself to feel?
MR. REIN: Well, I think, if you start to
split out subgroups of minorities, you mistake, I
think -- what I think is the proper thrust of Grutter,
or at least ought to be.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It might be insulting --
it might be insulting to some to be thrown into a pot.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why don't you
seriously suggest that? Why don't you seriously suggest
that demographic -- that the demographic makeup of the
state has nothing to do with whether somebody feels
isolated, that if you're in a state that is only
1 percent black that doesn't mean that you're not
isolated, so long as there's 1 percent in the class?
MR. REIN: Certainly -- racial balance --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I wish you would take that
position because it seems, to me, right.
MR. REIN: Well, Justice Scalia, racial
balancing is not a permissible interest. And we have
constantly -- this Court has constantly held not a
permissible interest. And that is something we
certainly agree with.
Trying to respond to Justice Sotomayor
and -- and in the framework of Grutter, what you're
looking at is, do you -- does this person, member of a
so-called underrepresented minority -- it's a concept we
don't necessarily accept, but it's Texas' concept -- are
they isolated? Are they unable to speak out?
And I think we've always said, if you have a
very large number, as Texas did in 2004, when they
ostensibly made the decision to reinstitute race, they
had a 21 percent admission percentage of what they
called the underrepresented minorities.
They also had about an 18 percent admission
ratio of Asian Americans. So on campus, you're talking
about -- about 40 percent of the class being minorities.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, but the test is -- the
test is, in your opinion -- I have to write this in the
opinion, let's say -- the proper test of critical mass
is, is the minority isolated, unable to speak out.
That's the test. And that wasn't in Grutter or was in
Grutter? And in your opinion, it was in Grutter?
MR. REIN: Yes. It said expressly in
Grutter --
JUSTICE BREYER: Isolated. And the reason
it was satisfied there and not here is?
MR. REIN: In Grutter, the Court assumed
that the very small number of admissions -- minority
admissions, looked at as the whole -- and it was looked
at as a whole, only as a whole in Grutter -- would have
yielded about 3 or 4 percent minority admission in a
class of 350, which means about 12 to 15 students --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what are you telling
us is the standard of critical mass? At what point does
a district court or a university know that it doesn't
have to do any more to equalize the desegregation that
has happened in that particular state over decades, that
it's now going to be stuck at a fixed number and it has
to change its rules. What's that fixed number?
MR. REIN: We -- it's not our burden to
establish the number. It was the burden of the
University of Texas to determine whether --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, they told -- they
told the district court. They took a study of students.
They analyzed the composition of their classes, and they
determined in their educational judgment that greater
diversity, just as we said in Grutter, is a goal of
their educational program and one that includes
diversifying classes.
So what more proof do you require?
MR. REIN: Well, if you are allowed to state
all the grounds that need to be proved, you will always
prove them, in all fairness, Justice Sotomayor.
The question is, they have --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but given it was
in the evidence, what more do you think they needed? I
think I hear all you saying in your brief is the
number's fixed now, they got enough, no more is
necessary.
MR. REIN: What we're saying in the brief
was they were generating, in fact, a very substantial
number of minority presence on campus.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's enough now.
MR. REIN: And --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what you're
saying?
MR. REIN: No. And that immediately thrust
upon them the responsibility, if they wanted to -- you
know, essentially move away from equal treatment, they
had to establish, we have a purpose, we are trying to
generate a critical mass of minorities that otherwise
could not be achieved.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me -- all right.
Tell me what about their use of race did not fit the
narrow tailoring -- not the necessity prong as you've
defined it, but the narrow tailoring that Grutter
required? How is race used by them in a way that
violated the terms of Grutter?
MR. REIN: And for this purpose --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assuming that the need
is there. I know you're challenging the need.
MR. REIN: Well, put -- put aside whether
this was necessary and whether it was an appropriate
last resort in -- in a quest for diversity and critical
mass because Grutter's not without limits. But I'll put
that aside, and let me come directly to your question.
First of all, if you think about narrow
tailoring, you can't tailor to the unknown. If you have
no range of evaluation, if you have no understanding of
what critical mass means, you can't tailor to it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you have to set a
quota for critical mass?
MR. REIN: No. There's -- there's a huge
difference, and it's an important one that is not well
put out by the University of Texas. Having a range, a
view as to what would be an appropriate level of
comfort, critical mass, as defined in Grutter, allows
you to evaluate where you are --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we won't call it a
quota, we'll call it a goal, something Grutter said you
shouldn't have.
MR. REIN: Well, Justice Sotomayor, I think
it's very important to distinguish between the operative
use of that range. In other words, that's where we are,
and we're going to use race until we get there, every
year, in consideration of each application, which was a
problem --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Boy, it sounds awfully
like a quota to me, that Grutter said you should not be
doing, that you shouldn't be setting goals, that you
shouldn't be setting quotas. You should be setting an
individualized assessment of the applicants.
Tell me how this system doesn't do that.
MR. REIN: This system doesn't -- I mean,
it's not narrowly tailored because it doesn't fit.
There are certain forms of Grutter that it follows.
It --
JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Rein, do you understand
what the University of Texas thinks is the definition of
a critical mass? Because I don't.
MR. REIN: I -- well, it simply reiterated
the language of Grutter. They have no definition. They
can't fit --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. -- Mr. Rein, it seems
to me that, in your talking about critical mass, you are
relying entirely on the 10 percent is enough. They
don't -- they got minorities through the 10 percent, so
they don't need any more. And I tried to get you
rigidly to focus on -- forget the 10 percent plan. This
is the entire plan.
MR. REIN: Well, let me tell you that, if
you look outside the top 10, at the so-called AI/PAI
admits only -- forget the top 10 for a minute, they were
generating approximately 15 percent minority admissions
outside the top 10, which is in -- above what the target
was in Grutter. So this is not Grutter on its facts.
It's vastly different. This is a --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because of the
10 percent.
MR. REIN: No, it was -- I'm talking about
only the non-top 10 percent admissions. 15 percent of
those were so-called underrepresented minorities. This
is without the top 10. Now, the top 10 is also a major
generator of admissions for underrepresented minorities.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And this was -- and this
was before the adoption of the plan.
MR. REIN: That is correct. Those are the
numbers --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm sorry.
Now, I'm confused. I thought the 15 percent figure was
the one that was arrived at with the 10 percent plan.
MR. REIN: No. With the 10 percent plan,
it's much higher. In 2004, it was 21 percent for just
Hispanics and African Americans, and these are the
categories they used. If you add in Asians, it was over
38 percent.
But I'm isolating -- in response to Justice
Ginsburg, I'm isolating to the non-top 10 admissions.
Those are over 15 percent in that year, and they average
very close to that over time.
So the -- the total generation of minority
presence is a combination of the two in fact, but the
AI/PAI system -- which was adopted in response to
Hopwood, it was -- as Texas says, it was the first thing
they tried to accommodate to their loss of the ability
to use race directly, which came up in Hopwood.
So that was their first response, to look at
a more balanced admission program between Academic Index
and Personal Achievement Index. So it is not a system
which just excludes minorities.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you comment on
this -- and then I hope we can get back to
Justice Alito's question.
You argue that the University's
race-conscious admission plan is not necessary to
achieve a diverse student body because it admits so few
people -- so few minorities. And I had trouble with
that, reading the brief. I said, well, if it's so few,
then what's the problem?
MR. REIN: Well, it's a question --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then -- let's assume --
MR. REIN: Excuse me, Justice.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- that it resulted in the
admission of many minorities. Then you'd come back and
say, oh, well, this is -- this shows that we -- we were
probably wrongly excluded. I --
MR. REIN: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I see an inconsistency
here.
MR. REIN: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it -- are you saying
that you shouldn't impose this hurt or this injury,
generally, for so little benefit; is -- is that the
point?
MR. REIN: Well, yes, that's part of it.
The second is the question of reasonably available
alternatives. If we take Texas at its word, and it says
they are satisfied, they are happy going on with the way
they apply race today, we tried to measure, well, what
difference is it making? And could you achieve the same
thing with a reasonably available race-neutral
alternative?
That's a question that was asked in Grutter.
They were supposed to analyze that. They didn't look at
it. But it --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But is the -- the
race-neutral alternative is the 10 percent plan?
MR. REIN: The race-neutral alternative
includes an extension of the 10 percent plan because
it's a major generator of minority admissions. And
right now, that ranges at 30.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you say, and that's
okay because it's -- it's race-neutral. But is it
really? The -- the only reason that they instituted the
10 percent plan was to increase minority enrollment.
MR. REIN: Well, we say --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it -- and that -- the
only way it works is if you have heavily separated
schools. And worse than that, I mean, if you -- if you
want to go to the University of Texas under the
10 percent plan, you go to the low-performing school,
you don't take challenging courses, because that's how
you'll get into the 10 percent.
So maybe the University is concerned that
that is an inadequate way to deal with it.
MR. REIN: But, Justice Ginsburg, let -- let
me say that -- that a lot of that is speculative. There
is nothing in the record to support it. We don't know.
They've never surveyed the top 10 admits, the minority
admits, to see, well, did you --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. The 10 percent
plan is not imposed by the University. It's not their
option --
MR. REIN: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- to say this -- this is
not good for education because people will take easy
courses. It's imposed by state law, isn't it?
MR. REIN: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Anybody who is in the top
10 percent of any school in the state gets into the
University of Texas.
MR. REIN: Yes. And even the Fifth Circuit
said you can't disregard its consequences because it's a
matter of law. I'm simply saying they could choose to
extend it beyond where it is because it's capped today
at 75 percent.
But that's not the only option. That's not
the only alternative. And -- and certainly, one simple
alternative is they could look at the yield, that is,
what percentage of the admitted minorities are they
actually encouraging and -- and enrolling.
JUSTICE BREYER: Or they could -- this is
what is underlying my thing here. I want to get you
directly to answer it. I did look up the figures. And
before Hopwood and the 10 percent plan, it looked on the
African American side, that it averaged about 5 --
5 percent per year, really, pretty steadily.
Then after Hopwood and 10 percent, it went
down a little bit, not a lot, but it went down to about
3 and a half percent -- 4 percent, maybe. And then they
introduced Grutter, and it's back up to 5 percent.
MR. REIN: No --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Now, is that a lot?
Is that a little? There are several thousand admissions
officers in the United States, several thousand
universities, and what is it we're going to say here
that wasn't already said in Grutter, that isn't going to
take hundreds or thousands of these people and have
Federal judges dictating the policy of admission of all
these universities? You see why I'm looking for some
certainty?
MR. REIN: Well, Justice --
JUSTICE BREYER: I saw what happened, you
saw the numbers.
Sorry. Go ahead.
MR. REIN: Justice Breyer, just -- I will
answer your question. I'd like to reserve a little
time.
JUSTICE BREYER: You can answer it later, if
you want, or not answer it at all, if you don't.
(Laughter.)
MR. REIN: No, I am perfectly happy to -- to
answer your question.
I think that the increase in
African American admissions that you're looking at was
pre-Grutter. It -- it was generated before 2004.
JUSTICE BREYER: Uh-huh.
MR. REIN: So I just want to make clear the
record doesn't depend -- they don't depend on race to do
it. It's minimal change with the use of race. And
that's why we say there is an alternative, which would
serve it about as well in increasing yield or, indeed,
in reweighting the -- the PAI, which is a critical
element here, so that you put more emphasis on the
socioeconomic factors and less emphasis on the essays,
which are an academic measure within the PAI.
So there are lots that they could do --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So now, we're going to
tell the universities how to run and how to weigh
qualifications, too?
MR. REIN: It's not the job of the Court to
tell them how to do it. It's their job to examine the
alternatives available to them and see if they couldn't
achieve the same thing.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me,
again, how race and their use of race overwhelms those
other factors in their system as it's created?
MR. REIN: I -- the question is not whether
it overwhelms them. They're -- but they -- they say --
they admit, it is effective. There are admissions that
would not have taken place, but for; somebody else would
have had that place, but for the use of race.
And I think, Justice Kennedy, just to answer
your question fully, you have to analyze race-neutral
alternatives. And if you look at Parents Involved,
that -- that was the critical question. The out -- the
outcomes were so small, that there were readily
available alternatives.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, perhaps you could
summarize by saying -- by telling us, from your point of
view, this plan fails strict scrutiny on one or two or
both levels, A, because the objective is inappropriate
or ill-defined, and, B, because of the implementation is
defective. Which or both of those are you arguing?
MR. REIN: We have argued both, and we
continue to argue both. It is not a necessary --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And in what respect does
this plan fail strict scrutiny under either of those --
under both of those categories?
MR. REIN: Okay. Under the category -- the
first category, was it a necessary means of pursuing a
compelling interest, we don't believe they've shown any
necessity for doing what they were doing. And
certainly, it -- race should have been a last resort.
It was a first resort. That's, in a nutshell, that
prong of it. And in order -- and they failed in every
respect.
If you go to narrow tailoring, what we are
saying is they didn't consider alternatives, and their
treatment of, as we have pointed out, Asian Americans
and Hispanics makes a -- an incomprehensible
distinction. They say, we don't worry about Asians,
there are a lot of Asians, it's a demographic measure,
which is a forbidden measure.
They are in excess of their share of the
Texas population. But if you are trying to find
individual comfort levels, if you are breaking it down
between African Americans and -- and Hispanics, the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, you are the one
who, in your brief, has assumed that they are valuing
different races differently. But Asian numbers have
gone up, under however they have structured this PAI.
And as I understand their position, race is balanced
against other issues like socioeconomics, the strength
of the classes people took. It's never a standalone.
So even a white student, I presume, who goes
to an -- an entirely black or an entirely Latino school,
who becomes class president, would get some points
because he has or she has proven that they foster or can
deal in a diverse environment. That's how I understood
their plan, that it's not just giving you a plus because
of race. It's combining that with other factors.
MR. REIN: There is a plus because of race.
There are many other factors in the decision. And might
I say that this -- the white student president of the
class in an ethnically different school is a measure of
leadership.
Leadership is an independent factor in the
PAI. It isn't -- he is not getting that point because
he's -- because of his race; he's getting that point
because of his leadership. That's a race-neutral
criteria could work for anybody.
So race is an independent add-on. It -- it
is something they can use to boost the PAI score, the
PAS element in any way they like, because they say they
contextualize it. And we've said it's not necessary,
it's not narrowly tailored, it ignores available
alternatives, it treats -- gives disparate treatment to
Asian Americans because they are minorities as well.
And to the extent it depends on the
classroom factor, there is simply no way to relate or
fit what they are doing to the solution of the problem
which they used as a major foundation of their proposal,
which is the nondiverse classroom. That -- certainly,
there is just no correspondence there.
I see my time is up, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will afford you
rebuttal time, since our questions have prevented you
from reserving it.
MR. REIN: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Garre.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
For two overriding reasons, the -- the
admissions plan before you is Constitutional under this
Court's precedents. First, it is indistinguishable in
terms of how it operates in taking race into account as
only one modest factor among many for the individualized
considerations of applicants in their totality from
plans that this Court has upheld in Grutter and plans
that this Court approved in Bakke and the Harvard
plan --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I put that in the
narrow tailoring category, that it is narrowly tailored
the way Grutter did -- said, not the necessity prong and
not the need prong -- not the necessity prong. I think
most of his argument has been centered on that, so --
MR. GARRE: That's right. And so that's the
second point I was going to make, which is that the
holistic admissions process at issue here is a necessary
counterpart to the state's top 10 percent Law and works
to systematic -- to offset the systematic drawbacks of
that law in achieving an interest that is indisputably
compelling, the university's interest in assembling a
broadly diverse student body.
In the interest --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, before -- I
need to figure out exactly what these numbers mean.
Should someone who is one-quarter Hispanic check the
Hispanic box or some different box?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, there is a
multiracial box. Students check boxes based on their
own determination. Now, this is true under the Common
Application --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I suppose a
person who is one-quarter percent Hispanic, his own
determination, would be, I'm one-quarter percent
Hispanic.
MR. GARRE: Then they would check that box,
Your Honor, as is true of any --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They would check
that box. What about one-eighth?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, that was -- they --
they would make that self-determination, Your Honor.
If -- if anyone, in any part of the application,
violated some honor code then that could come out --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would it violate the
honor code for someone who is one-eighth Hispanic and
says, I identify as Hispanic, to check the Hispanic box?
MR. GARRE: I don't think -- I don't think
it would, Your Honor. I don't think that that issue
would be any different than the plan upheld in Grutter
or the Harvard plan or in Bakke --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't check, in
any way, the racial identification?
MR. GARRE: We do not, Your Honor, and no
college in America, the Ivy Leagues, the Little Ivy
Leagues, that I'm aware of.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So how do you know
you have 15 percent African American -- Hispanic or
15 percent minority?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, the same way that
that determination is made in any other situation, I'm
aware of, where race is taken into account --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You say it's "the
same way." What is that way?
MR. GARRE: Well, the persons self-identify
on that form.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do they have to
self-identify?
MR. GARRE: They do not, Your Honor. Every
year people do not, and many of those applicants are
admitted.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And how do they decide?
You know, it's -- they want not just a critical mass in
the school at large, but class by class? How do they
figure out that particular classes don't have enough?
What -- are they -- somebody walks in the room and looks
them over to see who looks -- who looks Asian, who looks
black, who looks Hispanic? Is that -- is that how it's
done?
MR. GARRE: No, Your Honor, and let me try
to be clear on this. The university has never asserted
a compelling interest in any specific diversity in every
single classroom. It has simply looked to classroom
diversity as one dimension of student body diversity.
And after --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know what you are
talking about. I mean, it is either a factor that is
validly in this case or it isn't. Now, do they look to
individual classroom diversity or not? And if so, how
do they decide when classes are diverse?
MR. GARRE: This Court in Grutter, Your
Honor -- and maybe the most important thing that was
said during the first 30 minutes is, when given an
opportunity to challenge Grutter, I understood my friend
not to ask this Court to overrule it.
This Court in Grutter recognized the obvious
fact that the classroom is one of the most important
environments where the educational benefits of diversity
are realized. And so the University of Texas, in
determining whether or not it had reached a critical
mass, looked to the classroom, along with --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Fine. I'm asking how. How
did they look to the classroom?
MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: On their way in -- did they
require everybody to check a box or they have somebody
figure out, oh, this person looks 1/32nd Hispanic, and
that's enough?
MR. GARRE: They did a study, Your Honor,
that took into account the same considerations that they
did in discussing the enrollment categories --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What kind of a study? What
kind of a study?
MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor, it's in the
Supplemental Joint Appendix.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. It doesn't explain to
me how they go about, classroom by classroom, deciding
how many minorities there are.
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, there are student
lists in each classroom. The student lists --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There are student
lists in each classroom that -- that have race
identified with the students?
MR. GARRE: No, no, Your Honor. Of course,
each classroom -- the university knows which students
are taking its classes. And one can then, if you want
to gauge diversity in the classrooms, go back --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, you go back to
what they checked on the form?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, this was part of
a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's a yes or no
question. You go back to what they checked on their
application form in deciding whether Economics 201 has a
sufficient number of African Americans or Hispanics?
MR. GARRE: That is information that is
available to the university, Your Honor, the race of
students, if they've checked it on the application. But
I do want to be clear on this classroom diversity study.
This was only one of many information points that the
university looked to.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, on the classroom
diversity, how does the non-top 10 percent part of the
plan further classroom diversity? My understanding is
that the university had over 5,000 classes that
qualified as small, and the total number of African
Americans and Hispanics who were admitted under the part
of the plan that is challenged was just a little over
200.
So how does that -- how does that -- how can
that possibly do more than a tiny, tiny amount to
increase classroom diversity?
MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor, first, I think
that 200 number is erroneous. There have been many more
minority candidates in --
JUSTICE ALITO: Per class?
MR. GARRE: No, not -- not on a per-class
basis.
JUSTICE ALITO: In an entering class.
MR. GARRE: I think in looking at the
classrooms, Your Honor, what the university found was
shocking isolation against --
JUSTICE ALITO: How many -- how many non-top
10 percent members of the two minorities at issue here
are admitted in each class?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, we didn't look
specifically at that determination. What we did -- in
other words, to try to find whether there were holistic
admits or percentage admits, we did conclude in 2004 --
and, again, this was before -- we did the classroom
study before the plan at issue was adopted, and at that
time, there were no holistic admits taking race into
account.
And what we concluded was that we simply --
if you looked at African Americans, for example, in
90 percent of the classes of the most common
participatory size --
JUSTICE ALITO: I really don't understand
your answer. You know the total number of, let's say,
African Americans in an entering class, right? Yes or
no?
MR. GARRE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: And you know the total
number who were admitted under the top 10 percent plan?
MR. GARRE: We do, Your Honor. But, again,
at the time --
JUSTICE ALITO: If you subtract A from B,
you'll get C, right?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, at the time --
JUSTICE ALITO: And what is the value of C
per class?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I don't know the
answer to that question, and let me try to explain why
the university didn't look specifically at -- to that.
Because at the time that the classroom diversity study
was conducted, it was before the holistic admissions
process at issue here was adopted in 2003-2004.
And so that determination wouldn't have been
as important as just finding out are African Americans
or Hispanics, underrepresented minorities, present at
the university in such numbers that we are not
experiencing racial -- racial isolation in the
classroom.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is that number?
What is the critical mass of African Americans and
Hispanics at the university that you are working toward?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, we don't have one.
And -- and this Court in Grutter --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So how are we
supposed to tell whether this plan is narrowly tailored
to that goal?
MR. GARRE: To look to the same criteria of
this Court in Grutter. This Court in Grutter
specifically rejected the notion that you could come up
with a fixed percentage. Now --
JUSTICE ALITO: Does critical mass vary from
-- from group to group? Does it vary from state to
state?
MR. GARRE: It certainly is contextual. I
think it could vary, Your Honor. I think -- let me
first say that my friends have -- throughout this
litigation, not in this Court, asserted 20 percent as a
critical mass, and that's lumping together different
minority groups.
JUSTICE ALITO: No. But could you answer my
question? What does the University of Texas -- the
University of Texas think about those questions?
MR. GARRE: We --
JUSTICE ALITO: Is the critical mass for the
University of Texas dependent on the breakdown of the
population of Texas?
MR. GARRE: No, it's not at all.
JUSTICE ALITO: It's not.
MR. GARRE: It's not at all. It's looking
to -- to the educational benefits of diversity on
campus, and I think we actually agree on what that means
and what Grutter said it meant, in terms of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre, could you
explain -- I think you were trying to before -- what
seems to me the critical question in this case: Why
didn't the 10 percent solution suffice? There were a
substantial number of minority members admitted as a
result of the 10 percent solution. Why wasn't that
enough to achieve diversity?
MR. GARRE: Well, let me make a couple of
points, Your Honor. First, if you just looked at the
numbers -- we don't think it's the numbers, but if you
looked at the numbers, after 7 years, racial diversity
among these groups at the University of Texas had
remained stagnant or worse. 2002, African American
enrollment had actually dropped to 3 percent. That's
one part of it.
The other part of it is, if you look at the
admissions under the top 10 percent plan, taking the --
the top 10 percent of a racially identifiable high
school may get you diversity that looks okay on paper,
but it doesn't guarantee you diversity that produces
educational benefits on campus. And that's one of the
considerations that the university took into account as
well.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that.
Why? Why -- why doesn't it?
MR. GARRE: Because, Your Honor, as is true
for any group -- and the Harvard plan that this Court
approved in Bakke specifically recognized this, you
would want representatives and different viewpoints from
individuals within the same -- the same racial group,
just as you would from individuals outside of that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What kind of viewpoints? I
mean, are they political viewpoints?
MR. GARRE: Well, anyone's experiences,
where they grew up, the situations that they -- that
they experience in their lives are going to affect their
viewpoints.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This -- this has nothing to
do with, with racial diversity. I mean, you're talking
about something else.
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I think it directly
impacts the educational benefits of diversity in this
sense, that the minority candidate who has shown that --
that he or she has succeeded in an integrated
environment, has shown leadership, community service,
the other factors that we looked at in holistic review,
is precisely the kind of candidate that's going to
come -- come on campus, help to break down racial
barriers, work across racial lines, dispel --
stereotypes --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Also, the kind that is
likely to be included within the 10 percent rule. And,
incidentally, when -- when was the 10 percent rule
adopted?
MR. GARRE: 1998, Your Honor.
But, but with respect to your -- your
factual point, that's absolutely wrong, Your Honor. If
you look at the admissions data that we cite on page 34
of our brief, it shows the breakdown of applicants under
the holistic plan and the percentage plan.
And I don't think it's been seriously
disputed in this -- this case to this point that,
although the percentage plan certainly helps with
minority admissions, by and large, the -- the minorities
who are admitted tend to come from segregated,
racially-identifiable schools.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I thought that the
whole purpose of affirmative action was to help students
who come from underprivileged backgrounds, but you make
a very different argument that I don't think I've ever
seen before.
The top 10 percent plan admits lots of
African Americans -- lots of Hispanics and a fair number
of African Americans. But you say, well, it's -- it's
faulty because it doesn't admit enough African Americans
and Hispanics who come from privileged backgrounds. And
you specifically have the example of the child of
successful professionals in Dallas.
Now, that's your -- that's your argument?
If you have -- you have an applicant whose parents are
-- let's say they're -- one of them is a partner in your
law firm in Texas, another one is a part -- is another
corporate lawyer. They have income that puts them in
the top
1 percent of earners in the country, and they have --
parents both have graduate degrees.
They deserve a leg-up against, let's say, an
Asian or a white applicant whose parents are absolutely
average in terms of education and income?
MR. GARRE: No, Your Honor. And let me --
let me answer the question. First of all, the example
comes almost word for word from the Harvard plan that
this Court approved in Grutter and that Justice Powell
held out in Bakke.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, how can the answer to
that question be no, because being an African American
or being a Hispanic is a plus factor.
MR. GARRE: Because, Your Honor, our point
is, is that we want minorities from different
backgrounds. We go out of our way to recruit minorities
from disadvantaged backgrounds.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So what you're saying is
that what counts is race above all?
MR. GARRE: No, Your Honor, what counts is
different experiences --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's the
necessary -- that's the necessary response to
Justice Alito's question.
MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor, what we want
is different experiences that are going to -- that are
going to come on campus --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You want underprivileged
of a certain race and privileged of a certain race. So
that's race.
MR. GARRE: No, Your Honors, it's -- it's
not race. It's just the opposite. I mean, in the LUAC
decision, for example, this Court said that failing to
take into account differences among members of the same
race does a disservice --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the -- but the reason
you're reaching for the privileged is so that members of
that race who are privileged can be representative, and
that's race. I just --
MR. GARRE: It's -- it's members of the same
racial group, Your Honor, bringing different
experiences. And to say that -- if you took any racial
group, if you -- if you had an admissions process that
only tended to admit from a -- people from a particular
background or perspective, you would want people from
different perspectives.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel --
MR. GARRE: And that's -- that's the
interests that we're discussing here. It's the
interests that -- that the Harvard plan specifically
adopts and lays out --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand my job,
under our precedents, to determine if your use of race
is narrowly tailored to a compelling interest. The
compelling interest you identify is attaining a critical
mass of minority students at the University of Texas,
but you won't tell me what the critical mass is. How am
I supposed to do the job that our precedents say I
should do?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, what -- what this
Court's precedents say is a critical mass is an
environment in which students of underrepresented --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know what you say,
but when will we know that you've reached a critical
mass?
MR. GARRE: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Grutter said there
has to be a logical end point to your use of race. What
is the logical end point? When will I know that you've
reached a critical mass?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, this question, of
course, implicates Grutter itself. And, again, I
understood my friend not to challenge that. They
haven't challenged that diversity is a compelling
interest at all.
What -- what we look to, and we think that
courts can review this determination, one, we look to
feedback directly from students about racial isolation
that they experience. Do they feel like spokespersons
for their race.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you, what, you
conduct a survey and ask students if they feel racially
isolated?
MR. GARRE: That's one of the things we
looked at.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that's the basis
for our Constitutional determination?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, that's one of the
things that we looked at.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. What are the
others?
MR. GARRE: Another is that we did look to
enrollment data, which showed, for example, among
African Americans, that African American enrollment at
the University of Texas dropped to 3 percent in 2002
under the percentage plan.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: At what level will
it satisfy the critical mass?
MR. GARRE: Well, I think we all agree that
3 percent is not a critical mass. It's -- it's well
beyond that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but at what
level will it satisfy the requirement of critical mass?
MR. GARRE: When we have an environment in
which African Americans do not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When -- how am I
supposed to decide whether you have an environment
within particular minorities who don't feel isolated?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, part of this is a --
is a judgment that the admin -- the educators are going
to make, but you would look to the same criteria --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, I say -- when
you tell me, that's good enough.
MR. GARRE: No, Your Honor, not at all. You
would look to the criteria that we looked at, the -- the
enrollment data, the feedback from the students. We
also took into account diversity in the classroom. We
took into account the racial climate on campus.
JUSTICE ALITO: But would 3 percent be
enough in New Mexico, your bordering state, where the
African American population is around 2 percent?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I don't think it
would. I mean, our concept to critical mass isn't tied
to demographic. It's undisputed in this case that we
are not pursuing any demographic goal. That's on page
138 of the Joint Appendix.
All of -- I think many key facts are
undisputed here. It's undisputed that race is only a
modest factor. It's undisputed that we're taking race
into account only to consider individuals in their
totality. This is a --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, I think that
the issue that my colleagues are asking is, at what
point and when do we stop deferring to the University's
judgment that race is still necessary? That's the
bottom line of this case. And you're saying, and I
think rightly because of our cases, that you can't set a
quota, because that's what our cases say you can't do.
So if we're not going to set a quota, what
do you think is the standard we apply to make a
judgment?
MR. GARRE: I think the standard you would
apply is the one set forth in Grutter, and it comes from
Justice Powell's opinion in Bakke, that you would look
to whether or not the University reached an environment
in which members of underrepresented minorities, African
Americans and Hispanics, do not feel like spokespersons
for their race, members -- an environment where
cross-racial understanding is promoted, an environment
where the benefit -- educational benefits of diversity
are realized.
And the reason why the University of Texas
concluded that that environment was not met here, it
laid out in several different information points that
this Court can review and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that -- that -- that
holds for only -- only another what, 16 years, right?
Sixteen more years, and you're going to call it all off.
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, we don't read
Grutter as establishing that kind of time clock. We are
looking at this --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you're appealing to
Grutter, and that's what it said.
MR. GARRE: Well - well, Your Honor, Grutter
is this Court's precedence. We're guided by it here.
At least the advocates are. And -- and what we would
look to is once -- we're looking at this every year,
we're looking at it carefully. And once we reach that
point, of course, we're going to stop.
But we also take into --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre. Mr. Garre.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Some of the stuff that
Grutter says -- some of the stuff that Grutter says you
agree with, some of the stuff that it says you don't
agree with.
MR. GARRE: Well, I don't know that I've
disagreed with anything it said. It --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre, before your
time is -- runs out, the other point that I'd like you
to answer is the argument based on Parents Involved,
that the gain is just too small to warrant using a
racial criteria.
MR. GARRE: Your Honor --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Once you have the
10 percent, you don't need more. So how do you answer
the argument of the gain is too small?
MR. GARRE: First I'd point to my friend's
own concessions, that the consideration of race has
increased racial diversity at Hispanic and helps with
minority enrollment. That's on page 138 of the Joint
Appendix.
Secondly, I'd point to the fact that African
American and Hispanics' admissions did increase.
African American admissions doubled from the period of
2002 and 2004. So this has had a real important impact
on diversity at the University of Texas.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, in terms of diversity,
how do you justify lumping together all Asian Americans?
Do you think -- do you have a critical mass of Filipino
Americans?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor --
JUSTICE ALITO: Cambodian Americans --
Cambodian Americans?
MR. GARRE: -- the common form that's used
has Asian American, but also, next to that, has a form
that says country of origin where that can be spelled
out.
JUSTICE ALITO: And do you have a critical
mass as to all the subgroups that fall within this
enormous group of Asian Americans?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, we've looked to
whether or not we have a critical mass of
underrepresented minorities, which is precisely what the
Grutter decision asks us to do.
I think -- if I can make a quick point on
jurisdiction --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If I could, before we get
to that.
MR. GARRE: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose we -- that you, in
your experience identify a numerical category a
numerical standard, a numerical designation for critical
mass: It's X percent. During the course of the
admissions process, can the admissions officers check to
see how close they are coming to this numerical --
MR. GARRE: No. No, Your Honor, and we
don't. On page 389 of the joint --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You -- you cannot do that?
MR. GARRE: We -- we wouldn't be monitoring
the class. I think one of the problems --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But isn't that what
happened in Grutter; it allowed that.
MR. GARRE: It did, Your Honor. It was one
of the things --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So are you saying that
Grutter is incorrect?
MR. GARRE: No, Your Honor. It was one of
the things that you pointed out in your dissent. What
I'm saying is we don't have that problem, because --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm -- I'm asking whether
or not you could do that. And if --
MR. GARRE: I don't think so, because the
Grutter majority didn't understand it to be monitoring
for the purposes of reaching a specific demographic.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They don't -- they
don't monitor, but race is the only one of your holistic
factors that appears on the cover of every application,
right?
MR. GARRE: Well, all the holistic factors
are taking into account on the application, and they're
listed at various points on the application.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. The
question was whether race is the only one of your
holistic factors that appears on the cover of every
application.
MR. GARRE: That -- that is true on the
cover of the application.
If -- could I make one point on jurisdiction?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will give you a
little more time since I'm going to give your friend a
little more time.
MR. GARRE: Thank you.
The fundamental problem with jurisdiction is
this: First of all, they definitively cannot show that
she was injured by any consideration of race. That's at
pages 415 and 416 of the Joint Appendix, where it makes
clear that Ms. Fisher would not have been admitted to
the fall 2008 class at University of Texas no matter
what her race, because her --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to be clear,
are you arguing that she doesn't have standing in an
Article III sense?
MR. GARRE: Yes, Your Honor. And I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You address that in
your brief in one footnote, right? We have an
obligation to consider it in every case, and what you
gave us is one footnote in which you said it's hard to
see how she could establish cognizable jurisdiction.
MR. GARRE: And there is another part of
that that comes from the brief in opposition, Your
Honor, which goes to the relief that she has requested.
The declaratory and injunctive release -- relief that
this case began with, that request has fallen out, and
that's undisputed. So the only thing that is live in
this case is a request for monetary damages. That
request is on page 79 of the Joint Appendix, and it's
focused exclusively on a request for the return of
admissions fees. And the reason why that is not enough
to confer standing is that she would have paid the
admissions fee no matter what policy the university
admissions had.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about -- what
about our Jacksonville case that said it is an injury to
be forced to be part of a process in which there is
race-conscious evaluation?
MR. GARRE: Texas v. Lesage says that
that -- that injury is not sufficient in a
backward-looking case like this, where you only have
monetary damages. In Jacksonville and all the other
cases, they involved forward-looking claims for
declaratory injunctive reliefs where people who were
going to go out and get contracts again. So Texas --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your
friend -- your friend told us that these remedial issues
and damages issues had been segregated out of the
process and are still available for remand.
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, that is not an
answer to jurisdiction for this reason: It's true that
it is bifurcated in the sense that we could go and prove
damages, but the complaint makes no doubt that the only
request for monetary damages is a request for admissions
fees. That -- it says that explicitly. And this Court
has said that relief that does not remedy the injury
suffered cannot bootstrap a plaintiff into Federal
court. That is the very essence of the redressability
requirement. That comes from the Seal Co. Case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's part of the
injury she suffered. It's -- it's not the only injury
perhaps.
MR. GARRE: It's the only --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But she -- she had to pay
an admissions fee for a process in which she was not
treated fairly.
MR. GARRE: And the reason why --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why shouldn't she get her
money back?
MR. GARRE: The reason why the payment of
that fee doesn't redress the injury, Your Honor, is that
she would have paid it even if Texas didn't consider
race at all; and, therefore, the payment of the
application fee back doesn't remedy the injury that she
is complaining about.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can I ask you to get -- if
this is easy, do it; if not, don't.
I wanted to use accurate numbers, and so I
discovered -- I wanted to find out how many universities
actually used a Grutter-type process last year or the
year before, etcetera. And one of your amici, the
admissions officers, according to our library, is the
only place that has that information, though it's
public, and I didn't want them to do it because they are
an amici of yours. And you are both here, both sides,
so if you can agree on -- simply, roughly -- what that
number is, I would like to know it; otherwise, I will --
I can use pre-Grutter numbers which are public and
available.
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I don't have
specific numbers. Obviously, the Ivy Leagues and Little
Ivy Leagues that have filed amicus briefs are using it.
And this Court recognized in Grutter that the best
universities, many of the best universities in America,
have been using these plans for 30 years or more.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Since we are asking
questions about just curiosity, I am curious to know how
many -- this is a very ambitious racial program here at
the University of Texas. How many people are there in
the affirmative action department of the University of
Texas? Do you have any idea? I mean, there must be a
lot of people to, you know, to monitor all these classes
and do all of this assessment of race throughout the
thing. There would be a large number of people be out
of a job, wouldn't we, wouldn't they, if we suddenly
went to just 10 percent?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, one of the things
that the University of Texas does monitor is the racial
climate on campus. It does that to improve the
experience for all students on campus.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How many people?
MR. GARRE: I don't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't.
MR. GARRE: -- have a specific number of
people, Your Honor, but it is -- it is an important part
of improving the educational experience for all students
at the University of Texas no matter what their race.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General Verrilli.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.,
FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
In resolving this case, it is important to
focus on what is, or more precisely, what is not at
issue.
Petitioner is not challenging Grutter's
reaffirmation of the principle of Justice Powell's
opinion in Bakke that student body diversity is a
compelling interest that can justify the consideration
of race in university admissions. Colleges and
universities across the country have relied on that
principle in shaping their admissions policies, and it
is of vital interest to the United States that they
continue to be able to do so.
The core of our interest is in ensuring that
the Nation's universities produce graduates who are
going to be effective citizens and effective leaders in
an increasingly diverse society, and effective
competitors in diverse global markets.
JUSTICE ALITO: Does the United States agree
with Mr. Garre that African American and Hispanic
applicants from privileged backgrounds deserve a
preference?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I understand that
differently, Justice Alito. Here's how we understand
what is going on with respect to the admissions process
in the University of Texas, and I am going to address it
directly. I just think it needs a bit of context to do
so.
The top 10 percent plan certainly does
produce some ethnic diversity. Significant numbers get
in. The problem is the university can't control that
diversity in the same way it can with respect to the
25 percent of the class that is admitted through the
holistic process.
So my understanding of what the university
here is looking to do, and what universities generally
are looking to do in this circumstance, is not to grant
a preference for privilege, but to make individualized
decisions about applicants who will directly further the
educational mission. For example, they will look for
individuals who will play against racial stereotypes
just by what they bring: The African American fencer;
the Hispanic who has -- who has mastered classical
Greek. They can also look for people who have a
demonstrated track record of --
JUSTICE ALITO: If you have two applicants
who are absolutely the same in every respect: They both
come from affluent backgrounds, well-educated parents.
One falls within two of the groups that are given a
preference, the other doesn't. It's a marginal case.
It's the last -- the last position available in the
class. Under the Texas plan, one gets in; one doesn't
get in. Now, do you agree with that or not?
GENERAL VERRILLI: No. I think the -- in
the --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you agree with -- do you
agree that that is an incorrect statement of the facts,
or do you agree that that's an incorrect understanding
of the Equal Protection Clause?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think it's both. I
think the -- there is no automatic preference in Texas.
And I think this is right in the -- it says at page 398a
of the Joint Appendix -- the -- they describe the
process as saying, "An applicant's race is considered
only to the extent that the applicant, viewed
holistically, will contribute to the broader vision of
diversity desired by the university."
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but -- but the
hypothetical is that the two applicants are entirely the
same in all other respects.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. But the point --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if -- if the ability to
give a racial preference means anything at all, it
certainly has to mean that, in the -- in the
hypothetical given -- given by Justice Alito, the
minority student gets in and the other one doesn't.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I disagree,
Justice Scalia. What the -- Texas, I think, has made
clear -- and I think this is a common feature of these
kinds of holistic approaches -- that not everyone in an
underrepresented group gets a preference, gets a plus
factor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not a matter of not
everyone; it's a matter of two who are identical in all
other respects.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And what does the racial
preference mean if it doesn't mean that in that
situation the minority applicant wins and the other one
loses?
GENERAL VERRILLI: There may not be a racial
preference in that situation. It's going to depend on a
holistic, individualized consideration of the applicant.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But, they're already
talking --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just don't understand
this argument. I thought that the whole point is that
sometimes race has to be a tie-breaker and you are
saying that it isn't. Well, then, we should just go
away. Then -- then we should just say you can't use
race, don't worry about it.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't think it's a
tie-breaker. I think it functions more subtly than
that, Justice Kennedy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It doesn't function
more subtly in every case. We have findings by both
courts below -- and I'm reading from the court of
appeals opinion at Petitioner appendix page 33.
"The district court found that race is
indisputably a meaningful factor that can make a
difference in the evaluation of a student's
application." If it doesn't make a difference, then we
have a clear case; they're using race in a way that
doesn't make a difference. The supposition has to be
that race is a determining factor.
We've heard a lot about holistic and all
that. That's fine. But unless it's a determining
factor, in some cases they're using race when it doesn't
serve the purpose at all. That can't be the situation.
GENERAL VERRILLI: It can make a difference.
It just doesn't invariably make a difference with
respect to every minority applicant, and that's the
key here --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You have to agree
that it makes a difference in some cases.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, it does.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But it doesn't
necessarily make a difference in the situation that
Justice Alito posited in the hypothetical --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's the same --
the same would be true in -- of the Bakke plan, that in
some cases it's going to make a difference. The same
would be true under Grutter. The same would be true
under the policies now in existence at the military
academies.
GENERAL VERRILLI: That -- that is exactly
right, Justice Ginsburg, but the point is that it's not
a mechanical factor.
Now, with respect to the implementation
of -- and the narrow tailoring inquiry, with respect to
the University's implementation of this -- of its
compelling interest, I do think it's clear that,
although the Petitioner says she's challenging
implementation, that this plan meets every requirement
of Grutter and addresses the concern of Justice Kennedy
that you raised in dissent in Grutter. Whether Texas
had to or not, it did address that concern.
There's no quota. Everyone competes against
everyone else. Race is not a mechanical automatic
factor. It's an holistic individualized consideration.
And because of the way the process is structured, they
do not monitor the racial composition on an ongoing
basis.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, I think, as I
take your answer, is that the supposition of
Justice Alito's question is truly impossible under this
system. There are not two identical candidates because
there are not identical mechanical factors that --
except the 10 percent plan.
Under the PIA, the factors are so varied, so
contextually set, that no two applicants ever could be
identical in the sense that they hypothesize.
GENERAL VERRILLI: That's correct. They
make specific individualized judgments about each
applicant --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because no two people
can be the same --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to get back to
what we're talking about, you -- as I understand it,
race by itself is taken into account, right? That's the
only thing on the cover of the application; they take
race into account.
And the district court found -- and you're
not challenging -- that race makes a difference in some
cases, right?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. But the key,
Mr. Chief Justice, is the way it makes a difference.
And it makes a difference by casting the accomplishments
of the individual applicant in a particular light, or
the potential of an individual applicant in a particular
light.
What -- what universities are looking for
principally with respect to this individualized
consideration is what is this individual going to
contribute to our campus? And race can have a bearing
on that because it can have a bearing on evaluating what
they've accomplished, and it can have a bearing for the
reasons I tried to identify earlier to Justice Alito on
what they can bring to the table, what they can bring to
that freshman seminar, what they can bring to the
student government, what they can bring to the campus
environment --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, so. But it is
the correct answer to Justice Alito's -- if there are
ever two applicants where the GPA, the test -- the
grades, the SA1, SA2, leadership, activities, awards,
work experience, community service, family's economic
status, school's socioeconomic status, family's
responsibility, single-parent home, languages other than
English spoken at home, and SAT score relative to
school's average race, if you had a situation where
those -- all those things were absolutely identical,
than the person would be admitted on the bounds of race.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Not necessarily.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL VERRILLI: Because -- because -- I'm
trying to make a simple point here. Neither --
JUSTICE ALITO: General, if you don't
like --
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- neither -- neither
might get in.
JUSTICE ALITO: Let me withdraw my prior
question if you don't like that.
Before your time runs out, let me ask you
another question.
Your ROTC argument -- you make -- you
make -- you devote a lot of attention in your brief to
the military. Could you explain your ROTC argument to
me?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Sure.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why is it important for the
ROTC program for commissioned officers that Texas have
this other plan on top of the top 10 percent plan?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Our -- our military
effectiveness depends on a pipeline of well-qualified
and well-prepared candidates from diverse backgrounds
who are comfortable exercising leadership in diverse
settings, and --
JUSTICE ALITO: Oh, I understand that. And
just -- I don't want to cut you off, but --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- because the time is about
to expire, so you've got a marginal candidate who wants
to go to the University of Texas at Austin and is also
interested in ROTC. Maybe if race is taken into
account, the candidate gets in. Maybe if it isn't, he
doesn't get in. How does that impact the military?
The candidate will then probably go to Texas
A&M or Texas Tech? Is it your position that he will be
an inferior military officer if he went to one of those
schools?
GENERAL VERRILLI: No, Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: Then I don't understand the
argument.
GENERAL VERRILLI: The point of educational
diversity, the point of what the University of Texas is
trying to achieve is to create an environment in which
everyone develops an appropriate sense of citizenship,
everyone develops the capacity to lead in a racially
diverse society, and so it will benefit every ROTC
applicant from the University of Texas.
And 43 percent of the Officer Corps comes
from the ROTC. It's a very significant source of our
military leadership.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General, how -- what
is your view on how we tell whether -- when the
University has attained critical mass?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't think critical --
I agree with my friend that critical mass is not a
number. I think it would be very ill-advised to suggest
that it is numerical. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. I'm hearing a
lot about what it's not. I'd like to know what it is
because our responsibility is to decide whether this use
of race is narrowly tailored to achieving, under this
University's view, critical mass.
GENERAL VERRILLI: May I answer,
Mr. Chief Justice?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, yes.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you.
I think -- I don't think that this is a
situation in which the Court simply affords complete
deference to the University's judgment that it hasn't
yet achieved the level of diversity that it needs to
accomplish its educational mission.
I think that the Court ought to -- has to
make its own independent judgment. I think the way the
Court would go about making that independent judgment is
to look at the kind of information that the university
considered. That could be information about the
composition of the class. It could be information about
classroom diversity. It could be information about
retention and graduation rates. It can be information
about -- that's specific to the university's context in
history. Is it a university that has had a history of
racial incidents and trouble or not? A series of
factors.
And then what the Court's got to do is
satisfy itself that the University has substantiated its
conclusion based on that -- based on the information
it's considered, that it needs to consider race to
further advance the educational goals that Grutter has
identified as a compelling interest.
And I will say, I do think, as the number of
minority enrollees gets higher, the burden on the
university to do that is going to get harder to meet.
But I don't think -- I don't think there is a number,
and I don't think it would be prudent for this Court to
suggest that there is a number, because it would raise
exactly the kind of problem that I -- that I think
Justice Kennedy identified in the Grutter dissent of
creating hydraulic pressure towards that number.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We should probably stop
calling it critical mass then, because mass, you know,
assumes numbers, either in size or a certain weight.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I agree.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So we should stop calling
it mass.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I agree.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Call it a cloud or
something like that.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL VERRILLI: I agree that critical
mass -- the idea of critical mass has taken on a life of
its own in a way that's not helpful because it doesn't
focus the inquiry where it should be.
If I may just add one word in conclusion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you.
I think it is important, Your Honors, not
just to the government, but to the country, that our
universities have the flexibility to shape their
environments and their educational experience to make a
reality of the principle that Justice Kennedy identified
in Parents Involved, that our strength comes from people
of different races, different creeds, different
cultures, uniting in a commitment to freedom, and to
more a perfect union.
That's what the University of Texas is
trying to do with its admissions policy, and it should
be upheld.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Rein, 10 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BERT W. REIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. REIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
That's more than I expected.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just keeping the
playing field level.
MR. REIN: Well, that's what we're seeking
in this case, Mr. Chief Justice, a level playing field
for Abby Fisher. So it's most apt at this point.
There's just three things I want to touch
on. First, there's been a lot of back and forth on
standing, but, as we have pointed out, that really
relates to merits. And I just want to make clear that
we do not accept the premise of that footnote, that she
would not have entered under any circumstances; that
they've asserted that, but, in fact, she was considered
for the summer program, which is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is your complaint
limited to injunctive relief and the return of the $100?
As written, is that what it's limited to?
MR. REIN: No, because it said, "any and all
other damages," at the point when we were writing it,
which was --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In Arizonans and Alvarez
we said any all -- any and other -- all damages is too
speculative. Is what you actually see what I said:
Injunctive relief and the return of the $100.
MR. REIN: And what I'm saying is that we
never had the opportunity to develop the full damages --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In --
MR. REIN: -- because of --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In Arizonans and Alvarez
we said you can't manufacture standing after the fact.
Did you ask only for injunctive relief and the $100,
specifically?
MR. REIN: The only specific number in the
complaint, because of the point in time when it was
filed was the application fee, which we believe --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And you would have paid
that no matter what; under any system of admission you
would have paid the same $100.
MR. REIN: You would have paid the fee in
return for a fair processing of the application, which
she did not receive, and we think that is a claim that
will be sustained. It is not tested at this point.
And the second thing is, because of the way
the case was bifurcated, with the agreement of all and
the district court as well, we did not develop the
additional damages here. We reserved the right to
amend, and as things have progressed --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: For what, nominal
damages?
MR. REIN: No --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And then how do you get
around Arizonans?
MR. REIN: Because as -- as in the BIO, what
UT pointed out was there are other kinds of financial
injuries which were not ascertainable at the time the
complaint was filed because we were trying to put her
into the university.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: She was going to get a
better job because she went to a different university?
MR. REIN: That's one of the things they
suggested. There are differences in cost between the --
what she paid at LSU and what she would have paid at UT.
I'm just saying, these are all reserved questions and
they don't go to standing. The Court made that clear in
Bakke.
Let me go to another issue that, you know, I
think I never completed my answer to Justice Breyer.
Where we stand on what you should do about Grutter is as
follows.
We recognize, as in the words of -- that the
Solicitor General just issued -- that there is an
interest which is cognizable in diversity. That is --
that was the root question in Grutter, could you
recognize it at all. But what we are concerned about,
as you are seeing here, is universities like UT and many
others have read it to be green light, use race, no end
point, no discernible target, no critical mass written,
you know, in circumstances reduced to something that can
be reviewed.
And as long as you don't cross two lines,
determinative points and fixed quotas -- "quotas"
meaning we will fill this quota exclusively with who we
deem to be under-represented -- you are okay. We don't
think that's the way Grutter was intended. Grutter was
intended to say this is an area of great caution; using
race itself raises all kinds of red flags, so before you
use race make a determination whether really, your
interest in critical mass -- that is, in the dialogue
and interchange, the educational interest, is that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You are not suggesting
that if every minority student that got into a
university got into only the physical education program;
and in this particular university that -- that physical
education program includes all the star athletes; so
every star athlete in the school happens to be black or
Hispanic or Asian or something else, but they have now
reached the critical mass of 10, 15, 20 percent -- that
the university in that situation couldn't use race?
MR. REIN: Well, I think you are talking
about --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In the holistic way that
Grutter permits?
MR. REIN: Well, if you are saying there's a
-- a differentiated department of physical education,
which is like a separate college, you have changed the
nature of the hypothetical.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, it's just that every
one of their students who happens to be a minority is
going to end up in that program. You don't think the
university could consider that it needs a different
diversity in its other departments?
MR. REIN: Well, if that were the case,
remember the factor that is causing it, and you are
assuming, is choice. You have a critical mass of
students. They choose to major in different things, and
that's one of the base problems with the classroom
diversity concept. They never asked the question why,
if 40 percent of our students are minorities, are they
not in the small classrooms? Why does that happen?
Statistically you would say that's an aberration. You
might ask the question what's causing it? Because in
order to fit --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Aren't they saying the
same thing when they say, when we are looking at the
holistic measure, we are looking for that student who
is a -- that minority student who is a nuclear
scientist?
MR. REIN: No. Because they don't take into
account your interests, they don't ask you, are you
going to join ROTC, they don't ask you are you going to
major -- major in physics. And when it comes time in
the UT system to allocate access to different majors,
they do that in a way that is basically premised on
academic index.
So they have a two-tiered admission system.
They are only here focused -- their preference goes to
admission as such, it doesn't go to sorting people out
by majors.
And if I might then say to Justice Breyer, I
think our answer is, when we see what UT is doing, what
we that -- Grutter's -- you know, it has been perceived
as a green light; go ahead and use race, race which is
otherwise really a highly questionable, an abominable
kind of sorting out. That unchecked use of race, which
we think is -- has been spawned by misreading of
Grutter, needs to be corralled. So what we --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it any more unchecked
than the Harvard plan which -- that started all this off
in 1978, decided by Justice Powell? Is it any different
from how race is used in our military academies?
MR. REIN: Well, I mean, they are two
different questions. The Harvard plan is a very
different world. It's a plan of wholly individualized
admission comparing individuals one on one, to establish
the platonic ideal of the class as the educational
mission. This is not what is going on at UT.
This is not an individualized, I will look
at you. I will score you. I will score you
individually. But as they keep saying, at the point of
admission, I am not admitting people; I am admitting
categories, boxes; and that relates to Justice Alito's
question.
I thought your hypothetical, Justice Alito,
was entirely fair, because in the way they do their
system, in the PAI scoring, you can figure out that two
people would have had the same PAI score but for race.
It's an add-on. It allows them to boost the PAS
component of the PAI score. So -- it is not infrequent.
There are many, many candidates who will score the same
PAI, may even have the same AI, and then you boost some
of them.
Now, what UT says is, well, we don't boost
all the minorities. And that -- as they've stood here
today, and they said in their briefs, we want to boost
the ones we like. We want those affluent minorities who
we think will improve, in our view, dialogue. That is
contrary indeed to the fact that they give points in the
same system for socioeconomic disadvantage. It's at
odds with itself.
But it's purely race, and it comes to the
ultimate question then, which, Chief Justice, you were
asking: Where is the end point? If you have nothing to
gauge the success of the program, if you can't even say
at the beginning we don't have critical mass because we
don't know what it is and we refuse to say what it is,
there is no judicial supervision, there is no strict
scrutiny and there is no end point to what they are
doing.
So what we have said, and it comes right
back to Justice Breyer, how would you write it, you can
clarify it, you can say Grutter properly applies,
requires you to do A, B, C, and -- and we've said in our
brief that would be satisfactory. But to the extent
that you then have it surviving side by side, there
could be enormous confusion.
JUSTICE BREYER: So what you want me to do
is go read back what we wrote in Grutter, go look what
the underlying determinations of critical mass were
there, go look exactly how it is being done in Texas --
which I have charts that help me see that -- and I will
then find enough of a difference that I can write some
words that can be administered by 2,000 or 3,000 -- a
thousand Federal judges as they try to deal with
programs like this, in -- that's the point, is that
right?
MR. REIN: Well, I'm saying if you clarify
the needs and the necessity point, if you then look at
some of the other deficiencies and clarify the -- the
consideration of reasonably available alternatives as a
necessity, if you then attribute that -- you attribute
the weaknesses of the Texas program to the absence of
those factors, I think you can fashion a result in this
case which may or may not have to, quote, "overrule"
Grutter.
It's really a matter, what do you -- do you
want to clearly restate what it is that allows the use
of this odious classification? That's what we are
talking about, it's a narrow window; and it should be
stated as a narrow window.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you don't want to
overrule Grutter, you just want to gut it.
MR. REIN: Excuse me?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You just want to gut it.
You don't want to overrule it, but you just want to gut
it.
MR. REIN: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now you want to tell
universities that once you reach a certain number, then
you can't use race anymore.
MR. REIN: Justice Sotomayor, I don't want
to gut it. And the only way one could reach that
conclusion is to assume that Grutter is an unlimited
mandate without end point to just use race to your own
satisfaction and to be deferred to in your use of race.
That is unacceptable. That is the invasion of Abigail
Fisher's rights to equal protection of the law.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:23 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
achieved 18:17 43:23 ahead 26:20 Americans
Achievement 6:8,18,18,20 AI 79:24 29:10,18 30:24
62:13 achieving 32:10 34:10 37:11 22:8 38:14,19 39:13
action 4:3 11:21 60:24 67:20 37:20,23 38:2 50:7 52:8,10
82:21 activities 67:13 79:14 39:4 40:5,14 amici 57:23 58:2
additional 74:25 39:11 43:5 52:7,12,18 59:14
61:13 60:17 65:14 adopts 46:11 61:22 62:16 analysis 12:24
addresses 65:12 advance 71:9 64:21 67:5,25 analyze 23:24
78:13 79:21 affect 42:12 69:9,10 79:17 analyzed 17:15
admin 48:20 11:21 43:19 45:9 65:23 answer 4:1
admission 8:1 80:4 allocate 78:11 26:25 27:3
78:14,16 79:8 26:1 27:5 79:21 81:20 51:20 56:18
admissions 36:24 37:10 23:22 24:2,3 70:9 75:21
21:11,14 22:3 39:19 41:14 alternatives answered 6:10
28:5 31:17 44:22 48:4,4 27:23 28:10,13 anybody 25:9
41:18 43:9,15 50:6 52:2,4 81:13 anymore 82:8
35:24 53:9,9 55:23 aggressive 10:5 74:8 apparent 4:18
41:23 55:25 56:1,21 agree 8:4 10:7 ambitious 58:15 appealing 50:22
49:2,3 57:7,24 59:25 12:4,23 15:22 amend 75:1 appeals 63:24
54:10 60:2,16 72:22 40:25 48:9 America 33:19 APPEARAN...
69:3 admissions-plus 51:9,10 58:3 58:11 1:15
3:16 60:10 61:19,22 American 26:1 appears 54:7,14
62:4 73:2 3:15 69:1 balancing 15:19 35:20
Arizonans 73:25 automatic 62:2 barriers 42:25 boxes 32:19
62:6 Article 55:7 5:10,12 51:15 71:7,7 break 42:24
64:13 ascertainable available 23:16 basically 78:12 breakdown
75:9 23:21 27:23 basis 9:5 37:22 40:19 43:10
Asian 16:10 28:13 30:22 47:21 65:20 breaking 29:17
34:9 34:16 44:14 58:6 61:17 began 55:18 8:17 9:2,7,12
60:12 52:8,15,20 81:13 beginning 80:13 12:4,25 13:8
62:10 76:25 average 22:4 behalf 1:16,18 16:12,20 25:22
67:12 Asians 21:25 44:15 67:18 2:4,7,14 3:9 26:8,18,21,24
32:21 19:6 aware 33:20 14:17 29:2 78:18 80:19,25
36:23 asked 23:23 34:1 74:14 Breyer's 11:19
54:7,10 77:21 awfully 20:3 benefit 23:13 brief 18:2,5
asking 8:8 35:16 A&M 69:6 50:10 69:17 22:23 29:20
64:3 49:18 53:25 a.m 1:14 3:2 benefits 35:12 43:10 55:10,15
74:14,19 58:13 80:11 40:24 41:22 68:9 80:22
50:3 32:11 39:1 59:13 2:13 3:8 73:2 67:6,7,8
asserted 6:23 back 11:1 22:17 better 75:13 broader 62:7
69:15 73:17 36:16,17,22 48:11 burden 3:15
44:19 58:20 73:12 80:19 56:19 74:23
assumed 9:24,25 46:5 black 15:13 30:2 80:21
28:21 77:18 61:14 68:18 32:12 34:23 calling 71:21,24
55:6 attained 69:24 Bakke 7:11,11 79:21,24 80:1 campus 10:19
3:8 attempting 9:19 42:4 44:20 bootstrap 56:24 40:25 41:22
31:12 attended 5:15 50:4 59:23 bordering 49:5 42:24 45:12
43:21 attention 68:9 64:23 75:19 bottom 49:21 49:3 59:1,2
51:15,21 attribute 81:14 balance 15:15 bounds 67:20 67:2,8
63:13 81:14 balanced 22:13 box 32:17,17,19 candidate 42:19
69:11 Austin 1:6 3:7 29:23 33:1,4,11 42:23 68:25
62:15 73:16 76:7 64:4 65:9 47:9 59:24
65:24 challenge 35:8 citizens 60:7 clearly 81:20 competes 65:15
79:23 47:8 citizenship climate 49:3 competitors
65:10 66:16 claimed 6:6 code 33:8,10 56:20 73:19
7:13 8:14 17:9 27:10 clarify 80:20 colleagues 49:18 completed 75:21
9:3 13:5 changed 77:9 81:10,12 college 33:19 component
35:2 charts 81:4 class 7:18 8:21 77:9 79:22
43:13 check 32:16,19 15:14 16:11 Colleges 59:25 composition
55:11 33:1,3,11,16 17:2 30:3,11 combination 17:15 65:19
56:3 35:20 53:9 34:13,13 37:20 14:25 22:7 70:23
57:1 checked 36:18 37:23 38:4,19 combining 30:7 concept 16:1,2
61:16 36:22 37:2 39:5 53:15 come 19:6 23:4 49:8 77:21
64:4 Chief 3:3,5,12 55:3 60:24 33:8 40:3 concern 65:12
74:23 21:19 31:6,7 61:18 70:23 42:24,24 43:16 65:14
81:17 31:11,14 32:14 79:9 43:20 44:2 concerned 14:23
32:22 33:3,9 classes 17:15,19 45:12 61:14 24:19 76:3
56:10 36:10,17,21 35:4 36:15 50:3 55:15 51:23
39:18,23 46:7 37:9 38:15 57:1 69:19 conclude 38:8
46:12,23 47:2 58:19 72:17 78:10 concluded 38:13
35:25 54:5,12,19 81:21 29:17 72:9 82:11
55:5,9 56:2,13 classroom 11:7 comfortable conduct 47:17
32:1 53:6 63:21 64:15,18 34:22 35:3,11 coming 53:10 confer 55:24
72:10,25 73:4 37:3,6,8,16 68:14 connected 13:2
20:11 77:18 36:16 37:25 62:20 49:15 55:11
71:22 choose 25:14 77:23 community 57:14 71:8
77:19 Clause 3:19 42:21 67:14 77:14
25:18 circumstance clear 6:7 27:8 compelling 8:20 12:14,16 20:1
31:4 40:8 5:1 61:3 34:20 37:3 29:2 32:11 51:23 54:25
60:20 circumstances 55:2,5 62:20 34:21 46:14,15 59:24 63:9
67:1 32:14 46:7 critical 9:1 decide 34:11 40:19
59:10 82:17,18 10:11,15 13:13 35:4 48:17 depends 30:25
35:24 32:8 14:9,15,19 decided 79:3 describe 62:4
country 8:15 16:14 17:4 deciding 36:6,23 desegregation
70:22 60:1 72:13 19:12,17 20:15 16:6 30:9 deserve 44:13
73:17 counts 45:4,5 20:20 27:13 45:18 52:24 60:12
course 5:22 35:14 39:19 declaration desire 5:8
51:4 53:8 41:4 46:15,17 declaratory determination
6:5 25:7 48:8,10,13 deem 76:12 38:6 39:12
47:22 court 1:1,13 3:4 49:8 52:9,18 defective 28:19 47:12,22 76:16
4:23 7:13,19 69:24,25 70:1 deferred 82:13 81:2
71:1 15:20 16:22 72:5,6 76:6,17 deficiencies 76:10
35:5,9,10 cross 76:9 19:17 determined
40:11 42:3 50:9 20:17 determining
58:10 59:17 59:14 degrees 44:12 develops 69:15
71:15 74:24 cut 68:22 49:9,10 54:4 dialogue 76:17
14:6 47:12 Dallas 44:4 61:11 23:20 64:2,3,5
7:9 14:6 create 69:14 74:25 75:3 77:8 5:15 12:20
25:4,8 created 28:2 data 43:9 48:3 departments 21:7 29:21
67:11 creating 71:19 49:1 77:15 30:11 32:17
criteria 30:17 deal 24:20 30:5 63:8 42:5 43:21
68:19 69:17 71:9 72:15 equalize 17:6 42:12 47:14
77:14,19 diversifying 76:18 79:9 erroneous 37:18 53:6 59:2,8
79:3,6,7 17:19 educators 48:20 ESQ 1:16,18,20 67:14 72:15
19:4 34:21,23 60:7,7,8 essays 27:15 42:10 45:6,11
60:15 36:16 37:3,7,8 68:17 essentially 18:14 experiencing
25:24 41:20,21 42:15 35:1 71:22 18:15 55:13 explain 10:8
47:13 42:18 47:9 element 27:14 79:8 36:5 39:7 41:3
61:5 49:2 50:10 30:20 establishing 68:10
59:23 60:21,23 27:15 estimation 14:3 expressly 16:18
70:16,24 76:1 8:22 etcetera 57:23 extension 24:4
2:9 59:13 enrollees 71:12 56:5 64:2 10:6 13:22
doubt 56:20 enrollment 9:20 35:20 35:11 52:2
dropped 41:15 41:15 48:3,4 18:1 80:6
D.C 1:9,16,18 ensuring 60:5 exactly 32:15 12:17 14:24
71:18 easy 25:6 57:19 79:18 48:3 61:6 10:17 27:15
36:23 30:5 42:21 excludes 22:15 54:14 65:25
25:6 44:15 50:5,8,9,13 exclusively 81:16
66:15 educational environments Excuse 23:2 21:6 49:12
17:16,18 35:12 35:12 72:15 25:1 82:1 61:23
30:5 42:18 50:10 4:6 6:5 7:8 existence 65:1 fail 11:3 28:23
35:4 59:8 61:6 18:14 61:25 expected 73:5
68:18
70:17 82:15 experience failing 45:18
79:18 29:1,5 31:18 freshman 67:7 59:4,6,11 go 5:4,8 11:1
73:10 fully 28:9 62:1,12,18 78:21 81:1,1,3
81:7 40:4 76:10 61:5 71:9 68:16,23 69:9 going 5:20 8:6
74:14 flaw 13:18 G 70:9,12 71:23 14:21 17:8
flaws 9:24 G 1:18 2:6 3:1 72:1,5,11,25 19:25 23:18
flies 8:10 gain 51:16,21 generally 23:13 32:6 42:12,23
48:18 59:19 72:8 31:11,12,14 generate 13:17 49:24 50:18
focused 55:22 32:5,18 33:1,5 18:16 51:4 54:20
34:14 forced 56:4 40:8,17,21,23 getting 30:14,15 48:23
79:19 forget 20:24 41:2,9 42:2,10 Ginsburg 3:22 gotten 7:5,12
36:23 52:14,15 45:10,16,25 22:3 24:1,7,12 GPA 67:12
57:21 foster 30:4 50:19,24 51:6 give 6:13 54:19 5:17,18
found 12:11 51:6,11,13,18 54:20 62:14 graduates 60:6
2:6 31:12 happen 77:23 54:6,9,14 67:19 incomprehens...
46:1,3 77:12 78:4 33:17 incorrect 53:21
62:22 happy 23:18 holistically 62:7 identified 36:12 61:23,24
61:15 hard 55:12 honor 5:12 identify 33:11 14:13,16 24:10
Harvard 31:23 33:8,10,13,18 67:5 52:3
33:15 42:3 33:24 34:8,19 ignored 13:14 increased 51:24
44:18 46:10 35:6,18,23 ignores 30:22 increasing 27:12
79:2,6 36:3,8,13,19 III 55:7 increasingly
15:4 hear 18:2 37:1,17,25 ill-advised 70:2 60:8
16:16,17 heard 64:7 38:5,21,24 ill-defined 28:18 independent
hearing 70:4 39:3,6,21 40:9 immediately 30:13,18 70:19
18:21,23 heavily 24:13 41:10 42:2,17 11:15 18:12 70:20
20:4 held 11:20 15:20 43:6,8 44:16 impact 52:5 index 22:13,14
21:6 44:20 44:24 45:5,10 69:4 78:13
23:23 help 42:24 43:19 46:1,20 47:6 impacts 42:18 indisputably
31:22 81:4 47:23 48:19,24 implementation 14:11 32:10
33:14 helpful 72:7 49:7 50:19,24 28:18 65:6,8 64:1
helps 43:14 51:18 52:11,21 65:11 indistinguisha...
40:2,2 51:24 53:11,18,22 implicates 47:7 31:18
44:19 high 41:19 55:8,16 56:17 important 19:14 individual 12:15
50:3,20 higher 11:21 57:13 58:7,24 19:23 35:6,11 29:17 35:3
51:8 21:23 71:12 59:7,11 39:13 52:5 66:21,22 67:1
52:24 highly 78:22 Honors 45:16 59:7,18 68:13 individualized
54:3 Hispanic 32:16 72:12 72:12 12:13 20:7
64:25 32:17,23,25 hope 22:17 impose 23:12 31:20 61:4
71:9 33:10,11,11,22 Hopwood 22:9 imposed 25:2,7 63:9 65:17
75:22 34:17 35:21 22:11 25:25 impossible 66:6,25 79:7
44:23 51:24 26:3 65:23 79:11
78:25 60:11 61:9 huge 19:13 improve 59:1 individually
81:1,18 76:25 hundreds 26:13 80:5 79:13
82:11 Hispanics 21:24 hurt 23:12 improving 59:8 individuals 42:6
78:20 37:11 39:14,20 hypothesize 24:20 61:7 79:8
50:7 52:3 hypothetical 28:17 information
14:25,25 15:12 5:19,24 6:2,9 53:20,25 54:5 43:2 50:20
71:7 15:14 16:3,15 6:12,15,25 7:1 54:12,19 55:5 70:21 71:17
48:18 8:13,17 9:2,7 57:2,6,10,18 kinds 62:21 75:8
56:11 isolation 10:19 10:21 11:8,14 59:10,12,16,22 know 8:7,9 9:10
74:3,10 11:7 38:1 11:18,19,24 60:10,15 61:12 10:18 12:19
8:19 32:7 15:6,8,16,18 63:21 64:15,18 38:18,22 39:6
5:25,25 33:13 38:3,10 15:23 16:12,20 64:21,22 65:4 46:23,24 47:4
8:3 23:12 39:11 49:18 17:3,13,23,25 65:12,21,23 51:11 58:4,14
57:3 59:20 75:20 18:8,10,18,25 66:8,10,19 58:19 70:5
issued 75:25 19:11,19,22 67:5,10,11,25 71:21 75:20
56:14,15 21:8,15,19 69:9,10,22 80:14
Jacksonville 26:8,17,18,21 74:6,8,15 75:2 language 20:17
job 27:21,22 27:25 28:8,14 76:19 77:5,11 large 16:5 34:13
10:11 75:13 31:6,7,11,14 79:15,17 80:10 Latino 30:2
29:2 join 78:9 31:25 32:14,22 80:19,25 81:24 Laughter 8:12
joint 36:4 49:11 33:3,9,16,21 82:2,6,9,17 27:1 67:22
46:14,15 51:25 53:12 34:2,6,11,25 justify 52:8 72:4
59:24 55:1,21 62:4 35:16,19 36:1 59:24 law 8:9 10:1
65:9 JR 1:20 2:9 36:5,10,17,21 25:7,14 32:8
76:1,17 59:13 37:6,20,23 K 32:10 44:8
judges 26:14 38:2,17,22 keep 79:13 82:15
judgment 4:17 40:5,14,18,22 Kennedy 21:15 lays 46:11
48:20 49:20 42:14 43:2,18 23:11 28:8,14 leaders 60:7
70:20 45:7,9,13,21 45:13,21 53:2 30:12,13,16
51:15 55:13 56:18 50:16,22 51:6 key 14:18 49:12 legal 13:6
72:17 Justice 1:21 3:3 51:7,13,19 64:14 66:18 legitimacy 8:24
6:10
42:22 10:15 13:13,17 meets 65:11 mission 61:6
56:6
48:25 13:23 14:7,9 member 15:25 70:17 79:10
38:18 looking 12:9 17:4 18:16 10:19 38:3 modest 10:6
15:25 19:5,10,12,17 41:6 45:19,22 31:20 49:14
70:16 37:24 40:23 35:15 39:19 mention 13:3 56:9,21
51:2,3 40:5,12,18 mere 4:12 money 57:11
78:3,4 47:5 48:8,10 merits 4:16 7:15 58:19,25 65:19
78:21 loses 63:6 70:1,8 71:21 Mexico 49:5 moving 8:20
lot 24:22 26:4,8 72:6 76:6,17 68:10,16 69:4 32:19
43:24 7:14,15 9:25 20:22 21:12,14 19:7 29:8 32:1
low-performing 74:16 81:19 36:7 38:3 30:22 32:1
33:19 LUAC 45:17 15:13 20:9 48:18 50:6 Nation's 60:6
54:20,21 lumping 40:12 24:14 32:15 52:23 77:22 nature 77:10
52:8 35:1 42:9,15 80:2,4 necessarily 7:24
25:19,24 majority 54:3 means 12:15 33:23 37:19 22:20 28:21
35:2,17 majors 78:11,17 17:2 19:10 40:13 41:6 29:1 30:21
39:8 40:1 makeup 15:10 29:1 40:25 42:19 43:15 32:7 45:8,8
43:9 making 23:20 62:14 46:16 51:25 49:20
48:2 70:20 meant 41:1 62:17 63:5
50:4
61:6,10 82:12 23:19 27:16 76:20 77:12 81:11,14
79:11 manufacture 29:13,14 30:11 78:5 need 9:10 17:22
74:9 78:4 minute 21:3 18:25 19:1
25:25 68:25 65:16,25 73:1 51:20
35:15 markets 60:9 medical 7:12 misreading needed 18:1
71:8 October 1:10 42:7 PAS 30:20 79:21 15:19,21
78:25 odds 80:8 overriding passed 8:11 permits 77:6
odious 81:21 31:16 pay 57:6 permitted 5:9
officers 26:10 35:9 81:17,25 57:15 8:1 15:25
29:25 68:14 overturn 13:2 22:22 25:6 67:20
74:5 offset 32:9 overwhelmingly 26:13 29:25 Personal 22:14
77:21 oh 23:5 35:21 10:23 34:9 46:4,5 persons 34:4
37:7 38:2 76:12 49:10 51:25 percent 9:16,18 59:21 63:24
17:8,9 33:10 29:22 30:14,19 20:21,22,24 PIA 66:2
18:7 one-quarter 79:19,20,22,24 21:4,9,11,11 pinpoint 12:6,7
37:10,18 32:16,23,24 paid 55:24 57:14 21:20,21,22,23 pipeline 68:17
39:18 ongoing 65:19 74:15,17,18 22:1,4 24:2,4 place 28:6,7
43:24 operates 31:19 75:16,16 24:10,16,18 57:25
59:6 operative 19:23 paper 41:20 25:1,10,16,25 plaintiff 56:24
71:11,14 opinion 7:14 parents 7:16 26:2,3,5,5,6 plaintiffs 7:18
74:12 12:20 16:13,14 28:10 44:6,12 32:8,23,24 plan 9:17,22
16:17 50:4 44:14 51:15 33:22,23 37:7 20:24,25 21:16
26:19 opportunity part 4:7 23:15 40:11 41:5,7 24:2,4,10,16
32:15 35:8 74:5 33:7 36:19 41:15,18,19 25:2,25 28:16
41:11,11 opposite 45:17 37:7,11 41:16 43:3,4,23 28:23 30:6
57:20 opposition 41:17 44:8 44:11 48:5,10 31:17,24 33:14
60:21 55:15 48:19 55:14 49:4,6 51:20 33:15 37:8,12
option 25:3,17 56:4 57:2 59:7 53:8 58:23 38:10,23 39:24
70:3 59:13 participatory 77:1,22 44:18 46:10
particular 17:7 25:20 38:8 61:18 64:23
59:17 precedents 77:20 pursuing 29:1 R 3:1
62:22 46:21 39:11 46:3 put 19:2,2,5,15 6:19 7:4 8:21
23:14 42:23 52:23 57:7,22 60:16 75:10 12:16 13:17
30:14,15 59:19 60:25 62:5 puts 44:9 16:6 18:19,22
43:8,13 predicate 13:16 65:18 putting 14:20 19:25 22:11
47:3,4 predominant processing p.m 82:20 23:19 27:9,10
51:4,14 12:16 74:19 28:1,1,7 29:4
52:2,25 preference produce 60:6,21 Q 29:23 30:7,8
62:12 60:13 61:4,16 produces 41:21 qualifications 30:15,18 31:19
65:4 62:2,14,22 producing 10:11 27:20 34:1 36:11
69:12,13 63:4,8 78:15 professionals qualified 37:10 37:1 38:11
74:13 premise 4:25 44:4 quarrel 14:21 45:4,14,14,15
76:6 7:10 73:15 program 4:3,19 quest 19:4 45:17,20,23,24
80:11,16 premised 4:7 5:9,13,14 10:1
82:12
10:5 17:18 4:16 6:15 7:21 49:13,14,20
73:13 22:7 68:14 73:18 10:16 11:20 54:6,13,25
present 39:14 76:21,23 77:13 12:5 13:6,12 55:4 57:15
50:14 30:3,10 programs 81:8 19:6 22:18,25 62:5 63:14,17
76:10 pressure 71:19 progressed 75:1 23:16,23 26:22 63:25 64:4,6,9
presume 30:1 promoted 50:9 27:3 28:3,9,11 65:16 66:12,14
prevented 31:8 29:6 32:2,3,3 40:15 41:4 67:20 69:2
72:22 14:10 27:6 proper 15:4 47:6 54:13 76:15,16 77:2
29:16 66:25 12:8 80:20 79:16 80:10 82:8,12,13
49:6 principle 13:20 proposal 31:3 questionable races 29:21
61:17 prior 68:4 82:15 40:16 58:14 22:20 56:5
privilege 61:4 prove 6:19,21 75:17 79:6 race-neutral
60:12 proved 17:22 quota 12:13 30:16
20:2 22:24 purely 80:9 quotas 20:6 42:6,15,24,25
47:13 reasons 31:16 74:12,18 75:4 65:11 80:18 81:9
51:17,24 67:5 75:7,14 77:3,7 requires 80:21 rightly 49:22
61:7 rebuttal 2:12 77:16 78:7 reserve 26:22 rights 82:15
63:3,7 31:8 73:2 79:5 81:10 reserved 5:23 rigidly 20:24
71:3 receive 74:20 82:1,5,9 74:25 75:17 ROBERTS 3:5
69:16 recognize 75:24 16:6 resolving 59:18 32:14,22 33:3
recognized 4:24 rejected 5:13 29:5 34:2 36:10,17
record 6:22 relate 31:1 43:7 60:16,23 47:2,16,21,25
red 76:15 release 55:17 63:1 59:10,12 63:21
refuse 80:14 reliefs 56:11 response 22:2,8 room 34:15
46:24 3:3,8,10,22 4:4 relying 20:21 responsibility ROTC 68:8,10
50:5 77:1 4:11,15 5:6,11 remained 41:14 18:13 67:16 68:14 69:2,17
6:11,14,16 7:6 56:16 restate 13:20 roughly 58:3
81:1 9:12,23 10:7 remedy 56:23 result 41:7 43:3,4
13:11,24 14:2 77:17 retention 70:25 runs 51:14 68:6
15:15,18 16:18 reporting 15:1 73:20 74:3,19 S
20:9,13,16,19 42:5 reweighting 82:13
73:13 22:25 23:2,7 55:21,22 56:21 right 6:4 9:8 80:22
78:22 23:10,15 24:3 56:21 15:17 18:18 satisfied 12:21
24:11,21 25:4 requested 55:16 24:6 32:5 16:21 23:18
45:21 26:17,21 27:2 35:20 50:17 54:8 satisfy 9:3,13
55:23 27:8,21 28:3 required 7:3 55:10 62:3,12 10:9 48:8,13
57:9,12 28:20,25 30:8 12:19 18:22 63:2 65:4 71:6
81:13
74:4,7 48:13 57:1 68:23 74:25 saying 14:2 18:2
23:11 28:16,23 80:16 showed 48:3 somewhat 14:22 standalone
28:15 Seal 57:1 shown 29:2 son 7:18 29:25
45:3 second 4:25 42:19,21 sorry 21:19 standard 17:4
53:20,24 23:16 32:6 shows 23:5 26:20 53:4 49:25 50:2
63:15 74:22 43:10 54:12 53:7
75:17 Secondly 52:2 side 5:5 26:1 sorting 78:16,23 standing 3:24
78:2 see 23:8 24:25 80:23,23 Sotomayor 4:9 4:14 7:15,20
81:10 26:15 27:23 sides 58:2 4:12 5:4,7,17 7:22 55:6,24
33:11 53:10 55:13 60:21 69:20 6:12,15,25 75:18
52:16 74:2 78:19 simple 25:18 10:21 14:8,20 star 76:23,24
62:3 81:4 67:24 15:6,23 17:3 start 10:16 15:2
80:1 seeing 76:4 simply 13:14 17:13,23,25 started 6:7 79:2
11:8,14,18 43:16 56:15 70:14 29:19 31:25 25:10 40:6,7
12:2 segregating single 34:22 49:17 65:21 49:5
14:11 single-parent 66:8 73:19,25 stated 81:23
15:8,16 self-determin... 67:16 74:6,8,15 75:2 statement 61:23
25:1,5,9 33:6 sir 7:6 75:5,12 76:19 States 1:1,13,22
self-identify situation 33:25 77:5,11 78:2 2:10 26:10
36:1 34:4,7 63:5,8 64:10 81:24 82:2,6,9 59:14 60:3,10
41:25 seminar 67:7 64:20 67:18 sounds 20:3 state's 32:8
43:2 sense 42:19 55:7 70:14 77:2 source 69:20 Statistically
51:7 56:19 66:4 situations 42:11 so-called 10:17 77:24
69:15 Sixteen 50:18 16:1 21:2,12 status 67:15,15
59:3,5 separate 77:9 size 38:16 71:22 spawned 78:24 steadily 26:2
separated 24:13 small 16:23 speak 10:20 stereotypes 43:1
71:20 series 71:3 28:12 37:10 16:3,15 61:7
72:2 seriously 14:23 51:16,21 77:23 specific 34:21 stood 80:2
24:16 64:10 69:17 74:12 strength 29:24
30:2,11 service 42:21 socioeconomic specifically 9:16 72:17
41:20 67:14 27:15 67:15 38:6 39:8 40:3 strict 3:19 28:16
set 19:11 49:22 80:7 42:4 44:3 28:23 80:15
69:8 66:3 29:24 speculative 29:22 65:18
settings 68:20 Solicitor 1:20 spelled 52:16 student 15:1
79:12,12 share 29:15 31:2 41:5,7 spokespersons 36:8,9,10
shocking 38:1 somebody 15:11 47:14 50:7 59:23 62:17
11:6 36:4 66:13 78:7 59:9 60:17 81:16
32:19 support 24:23 taken 28:6 34:1 61:18 62:2,19 thinks 20:14
37:2 supporting 1:22 66:12 69:2 65:13 68:14 thought 8:14
46:16,22 2:11 59:15 72:6 69:1,5,6,13,18 21:20 43:18
49:1 suppose 9:17 talking 5:14 72:21 81:3,15 56:13 63:13
77:12 32:22 53:5 16:10 20:20 Thank 31:10,14 79:17
supposed 3:23 21:10 35:1 54:22 59:10,11 thousand 26:9
36:1,2 65:22 target 13:13 thing 12:7,12 thrown 15:7
38:10 Supreme 1:1,13 21:5 76:6 22:9 23:21 thrust 6:20 15:4
sure 12:23 68:12 Tech 69:6 25:23 27:24 18:12
47:17 21:1 27:19,22 74:22 78:3 63:14,19
surviving 80:23 46:17 48:23 53:19,23 58:24 12:6,13 22:5
41:6 sustainable 4:20 telling 17:3 75:1,14 77:19 38:11,25 39:3
Suter 3:10 ten 9:8 7:21 8:10 9:23 51:14 54:20,21
57:3 32:9,9 67:12 40:9,16,25 56:14
56:7 T 2:1,1 Texas 1:6 3:7,15 48:9 49:7,12 25:9 32:8
70:2 tailor 19:8,10 5:16 6:23 10:1 50:2 52:9,25 43:23 44:10
tailored 20:10 14:10 16:2,5 53:15 54:2 60:20 68:15,15
70:7 23:17 24:15 62:19,20 63:18 totality 31:21
18:21 19:8 35:13 40:15,16 69:25 70:2,13 touch 73:11
15:16 23:17 48:5 50:12 71:17 72:12 treated 57:8
26:13 45:19 56:12 57:14 76:13 77:3,13 4:6 6:5 18:14
30:23 10:12 16:1,8 52:6 55:3,25 62:1,12,18 11:5,18 18:22
23:19 52:23 62:22 60:22 61:1 65:3 66:5,18 32:2 33:17,24
understand 62:8 69:1,13 67:21,23 68:2 34:3,3 35:19
38:17 41:25 71:2,6,13 69:9,12,25 64:4 65:18
54:16 60:14,15 63:12 76:21,22 77:2 72:1,5,11 72:7 74:22
64:23,25 66:11 68:21 77:14 view 19:16 76:13 77:5
69:10 university's 28:16 69:23 78:12 79:18
39:7 81:7 61:1,24 70:8,15 71:1 viewpoints 42:5 81:15
18:15 8:23 unlimited 82:11 violate 33:9 1:10
41:3 understood 12:9 upheld 31:22 violated 18:23 weigh 27:19
69:14 30:5 35:8 47:8 33:14 72:23 33:8 weight 71:22
75:10 under-represe... use 3:16 4:5,13 vision 62:7 weird 13:25
13:1 undisputed 49:9 10:14 13:16 61:14
28:16 49:13,13,14 18:19 19:24,25 W well-prepared
38:3 55:19 22:11 27:10 W 1:16 2:3,13 68:18
62:10union 72:20 28:1,7 30:19 3:8 73:2 well-qualified
65:24 United 1:1,13,21 46:13 47:3 walks 34:15 68:17
67:12 2:10 26:10 57:20 58:5 want 8:7,7 9:7 went 8:15 26:3,4
79:5,19 59:14 60:3,10 63:16 70:6 12:5,7,18 58:23 69:7
universities 78:21,23 81:20 26:25 27:8 we'll 19:20
61:2 76:4 78:11,19 44:25 45:10,13 27:18 46:9
10:22 14:10 value 39:4 wanted 18:13 13:15 16:4
79:1 20:14 24:15,19 varied 66:2 wants 68:25 64:7 80:21
81:2 35:13 36:14 vary 40:5,6,9 Washington 1:9 44:14
45:13 39:8,15,20 vastly 21:7 wasn't 5:2 11:7 window 81:22
41:13,23 46:16 59:12,13,16 41:7 wins 63:5
72:9 3
35:21
38:7 9:21 10:1 41:15 48:5,10
81:6 20:21,22,24 49:4
67:14 21:13,13,21,22 30 24:6 35:7
25:1,10,25 33 63:24
38:3,23 41:5,7 350 17:2
58:23 60:20 398a 62:3
4
77:1 4 14:12 17:1
53:14 26:5
1:14 3:2 40 16:11 77:22
12 14:14 17:2
82:20 416 55:1
81:5 138 49:11 51:25
7:14
21:20 22:4 5 26:1,2,6
79:3 6
43:6 6 14:13
7
14:13,16 49:6 7 41:12
34:9 51:2 20 40:11 77:1 75 25:16
200 37:13,18 79 55:21
50:17,18 52:5 9
2003-2004 39:11 90 38:15
27:6 38:8 52:5
2028 11:22
16:7 21:23
