IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
FLORIDA, ET AL. :
Petitioners : No. 11-400
v. :
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND :
HUMAN SERVICES, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 28, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:00 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
Petitioners.
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 41
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 84
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:00 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will continue
argument this afternoon in Case 11-400, Florida v. The
Department of Health and Human Services.
Mr. Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The constitutionality of the Act's massive
expansion of Medicaid depends on the answer to two
related questions. First, is the expansion coercive?
And, second, does that coercion matter?
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Clement, can I ask you
a -- just a matter of clarification? Would you be
making the same argument if, instead of the Federal
Government picking up 90 percent of the cost, the
Federal Government picked up 100 percent of the cost?
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Kagan, if everything
else in the statute remained the same, I would be making
the exact same argument.
JUSTICE KAGAN: The exact same argument.
So -- so, that really reduces to the question of why is
a big gift from the Federal Government a matter of
coercion? In other words, the Federal Government is
here saying we're giving you a boatload of money. There
are no -- there's no matching funds requirement, there
are no extraneous conditions attached to it, it's just a
boatload of Federal money for you to take and spend on
poor people's healthcare. It doesn't sound coercive to
me, I have to tell you.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kagan, let me --
I mean, I eventually want to make the point where, even
if you had a standalone program that just gave
100 percent, just 100 percent boatload, nothing but boatload --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, I mean, if you --
MR. CLEMENT: Why, there would still be a
problem.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, you do make that argument
in your brief, just a standalone program, a boatload of
money, no extraneous conditions, no matching funds, is
coercive?
MR. CLEMENT: It is. But before I make that
point, can I simply say that you built into your
question the idea that there are no -- no conditions.
And, of course, when you first asked, it was what about
the same program with 100 percent matching on the newly
eligible mandatory individuals, which is how the statute
refers to them. And that would have a very big
condition. And the very big condition is that the
States, in order to get that new money, they would have
to agree not only to the new conditions, but the
government here is -- the Congress is leveraging their
entire prior participation --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Let me give you a
hypothetical, Mr. Clement.
MR. CLEMENT: -- in the program -- sure.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Now, suppose I'm an
employer, and I see somebody I really like, and I want
to hire that person. And I say I'm going to give you
$10 million a year to come work for me. And the person
says, well, I -- you know, I've never been offered
anywhere approaching $10 million a year. Of course, I'm
going to say yes to that.
Now, we would both be agreed that that's not
coercive, right?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I guess I'd want to know
where the money came from --
(Laughter.)
MR. CLEMENT: -- and if the money came
from --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Wow. Wow.
I'm offering you $10 million a year to come
work for me, and you're saying that this is anything but
a great choice?
MR. CLEMENT: Sure. If I told you,
actually, it came from my own bank account. And that's
what's really going on here, in part --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ah. But, Mr. Clement --
MR. CLEMENT: -- and that's why it's not
simply a matter of saying --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Clement, can that
possibly be? When a taxpayer pays taxes to the Federal
Government, the person is acting as a citizen of the
United States. When a taxpayer pays taxes to New York,
a person is acting as a citizen of New York. And New
York could no more tell the Federal Government what to
do with the Federal Government's money than the Federal
Government can tell New York what to do with the monies
that New York is collecting.
MR. CLEMENT: Right. And if New York and
the United States figured out a way to tax individuals
at greater than 100 percent of their income, then maybe
you could just say it's two separate sovereigns, two
separate taxes. But, we all know that in the real
world, that to the extent the Federal Government
continues to increase taxes, that decreases the ability
of the States to tax their own citizenry, and it's a
real tradeoff.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that a limit on the
Federal Government's power to tax?
MR. CLEMENT: What's that?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you suggesting that
at a certain point, the States would have a claim
against the Federal Government raising their taxes
because somehow, the States will feel coerced to lower
their tax rate?
MR. CLEMENT: No, Justice Sotomayor, I'm
not. What I'm suggesting is that it's not simply the
case that you can say, well, it's free money, so we
don't even have to ask whether the program's coercive.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, counsel, what
percentage does it become coercive? Meaning, as I look
at the figures I've seen from amici, there are some
States for whom the percentage of Medicaid funding to
their budget is close to 40 percent, but there are
others that are less than 10 percent.
And you say, across the board this is
coercive because no State, even at 10 percent, can give
it up. What -- what's the percentage of big gift that
the Federal Government can give? And -- because what
you're saying to me is, for a bankrupt State, there's no
gift the Federal Government could give them ever,
because it can only give them money without
conditions --
MR. CLEMENT: No, Justice Sotomayor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- no matter how poorly
the State is run, no matter how much the Federal
Government doesn't want to subsidize abortions or
doesn't want to subsidize some other State obligation,
the Federal Government can't give them 100 percent of
their needs.
MR. CLEMENT: And -- and Justice Sotomayor,
I'm really saying the opposite, which is not that every
gift is coercive, no matter what the amount, no matter
how small. I'm saying essentially the opposite, which
is there has to be some limit. There has to be some
limit on coercion.
And the reason is quite simple, because this
Court's entire spending power jurisprudence is premised
on the notion that spending power is different, and that
Congress can do things pursuant to the spending power
that it can't do pursuant to its other enumerated powers
precisely because the programs are voluntary. And if
you relax that assumption that the programs are
voluntary, and you're saying they're coercion, then you
can't have the spending power jurisprudence that's different.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what makes them
coercive; that the State doesn't want to face its voters
and say, instead of taking 10, 20, 30, 40 percent of the
government's offer of our budget and paying for it
ourselves and giving up money for some other function?
That's what makes it coercive --
MR. CLEMENT: Well, it's --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that the State is
unwilling to say that?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, maybe -- maybe I can
talk about what makes it coercive by talking about the
actual statute at issue here and focusing on what I
think are the three hallmarks of this statute that make
it uniquely coercive.
One of them is the fact that this statute is
tied to the decidedly nonvoluntary individual mandate.
And that makes this unique, but it makes it significant,
I think.
I'll continue. I thought you had a
question. I'm sorry.
The second factor, of course, is the fact
that Congress here made a distinct and conscious
decision to tie the State's willingness to accept these
new funds, not just to the new funds, but to their
entire participation in the statute, even though the
coverage for these newly eligible individuals is
segregated from the rest of the program. And this is
section 2001(a)(3). It's at page 23A of the appendix to
the blue brief.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't that true of every
Medicaid increase, that each time -- I mean, and this
started quite many years ago, and Congress has added
more people and given more benefits -- and every time,
the condition is, if you want the Medicaid program, this
is the program. Take it or leave it.
MR. CLEMENT: No, Justice Ginsburg, this is
distinct in two different directions. One is, in some
of the prior expansions of the program, but not all,
Congress has made covering newly eligible individuals
totally voluntary. If the States want to cover the
newly eligible individuals, they'll get additional
money; but if they don't, they don't risk any of their
existing participation programs.
The 1972 program was a paradigm of that. It
created this 209(b) option for States to participate.
This Court talked about it in the Gray Panthers case.
There were other expansions that have taken
place, such as the 1984 expansions, where they didn't
give States that option. But here's the second
dimension in which this is distinct, which is here,
Congress has created a separate part of the program for
the newly eligible mandatory individuals. That's what
they called them.
And those individuals are treated separately
from the rest of the program going forward forever.
They are going to be reimbursed at a different rate from
everybody who was covered under the preexisting program.
Now, in light of that separation by Congress
itself of the newly eligible individuals from the rest
of the program, it's very hard to understand Congress's
decision to say, look, if you don't want to cover these
newly eligible individuals, you don't just not get the
new money, you don't get any of the money under the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Where does it say that?
I'm sorry. Where does it say that?
MR. CLEMENT: It says it at -- well, it --
where does it say what, Justice Breyer?
JUSTICE BREYER: What you just said. You
said Congress said, if you don't take the new money to
cover the new individuals, you don't get any of the old
money that covers the old individuals.
That's what I heard you say.
MR. CLEMENT: Right. And then --
JUSTICE BREYER: And where does it say that?
MR. CLEMENT: It says it -- there's two
places where it says it.
JUSTICE BREYER: Where?
MR. CLEMENT: The 2001(a)(3) makes a part of
my --
JUSTICE BREYER: Where is it in your brief?
MR. CLEMENT: That's at page 23A --
JUSTICE BREYER: In the blue brief?
MR. CLEMENT: Blue brief.
JUSTICE BREYER: 23A. Okay. Thank you.
MR. CLEMENT: And -- and this makes not the
point about the funding cutoff. This makes the point
just that these newly eligible individuals are really
treated separately --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay --
MR. CLEMENT: -- forevermore.
JUSTICE BREYER: I want the part about the
funding cutoff.
MR. CLEMENT: Right. And there,
Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: And that cite section is
what?
MR. CLEMENT: I don't have that with me --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I have it in front of
me.
MR. CLEMENT: Great. Perfect. Thank you.
JUSTICE BREYER: And I'll tell you what I
have, what I have in front of me, what it says.
MR. CLEMENT: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And it's been in the
statute since 1965.
MR. CLEMENT: Exactly.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the cite I have is
42 U.S.C. Section 1396(c).
So are we talking about the same thing?
MR. CLEMENT: I -- if that's the -- if that
is the provision that gives the Secretary --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Okay.
MR. CLEMENT: -- among other things --
JUSTICE BREYER: And here's what it says at
the end.
MR. CLEMENT: -- the authority to cut off
participation in the program, yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: It says, "The Secretary
shall notify the State agency" -- this is if they don't
comply -- "that further payments will not be made to the
State, or in his discretion, that payments will be
limited to categories under or parts of the State plan
not affected by such failure, which it repeats until the
Secretary is satisfied that he shall limit payments to
categories under or parts of the State plan not affected
by such failure."
So reading that in your favor, I read that
to say it's up to the Secretary whether, should a State
refuse to fund the new people, the Secretary will cut
off funding for the new people, as it's obvious the
State doesn't want it, and whether the Secretary can go
further. I also should think -- I could not find one
case where the Secretary ever did go further, but I also
would think that the Secretary could not go further
where going further would be an unreasonable thing to
do -- since government action is governed by the
Administrative Procedure Act, since it's governed by the
general principle, it must always be reasonable.
So I want to know where this idea came from
that should State X say I don't want the new money, that
the Secretary would or could cut off the old money?
MR. CLEMENT: And Justice Breyer, here's
where it comes from, which is from the very beginning of
this litigation, we've pointed out that what's coercive
is not the absolute guarantee that the Secretary could
cut off every penny, but the fact that she could.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, let me
relieve you of that concern, and tell me how I --
whether I have -- that a basic principle of
administrative law -- indeed, all law -- is that the
government must act reasonably. And should a Secretary
cut off more money than the Secretary could show was
justified by being causally related to the State's
refusal to take the new money, you would march into
court with your clients and say, Judge, the Secretary
here is acting unreasonably. And I believe there is
implicit in this statute, as there is explicit in the
ADA, that any such cutoff decision must be reasonable.
Now, does that relieve you of your fear?
MR. CLEMENT: It doesn't for this reason,
Justice --
JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't think it would,
but I --
(Laughter.)
MR. CLEMENT: Well, but here's the reason.
Here's the reason -- Justice Breyer, it doesn't.
One is -- I mean, I don't know the opinion
to cite for that proposition.
Second is, I've been -- we've been making in
this litigation since the very beginning this basic
point, the government has had opportunities at every
level of this system, and I suppose they'll have an
opportunity today to say: Fear not, States. If you
don't want to take the new conditions, all you will lose
is the new money. And when we --
JUSTICE BREYER: What I said -- I said
because it could be, you know, given the complexity of
the Act, that there is some money that would be saved in
the program if the States take the new money, and if
they don't take the new money, there is money that is
being spent that wouldn't otherwise be spent. There
could be some pile like that.
It might be that the Secretary could show it
was reasonable to take that money away from the States,
too --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Clement --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- but my point is, you
have to show reasonableness before you can act.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- do -- do you agree -- do
you agree that the government has to act reasonably?
MR. CLEMENT: You know --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do -- do we strike down
unreasonable statutes? My God!
MR. CLEMENT: Well -- and, Justice Scalia, I
mean --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The Executive has to act
reasonably, that's certain, in implementing a statute;
but if the statute says, in so many words, that the
Secretary can strike the whole -- funding for the whole
program, that's the law, unreasonable or not, isn't it?
MR. CLEMENT: That's the way I would read
the law, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, but I have a
number -- all right.
MR. CLEMENT: And if I could just add one
thing just to the discussion, is the point that, you
know, this is not all hypothetical. I mean, in -- there
was a record in the district court, and there is an
Exhibit 33 to our motion for summary judgment. It's
not -- it's not in the joint appendix. We can lodge it
with the Court if they'd -- if you'd like.
But it's a letter that's in the record in
this litigation, and it's a letter from the Secretary to
Arizona, when Arizona floated the idea that it would
like to withdraw from the CHIP program, which is a
relatively small part of the whole program.
And what Arizona was told by the Secretary
is that if you withdraw from the CHIP program, you risk
losing $7.8 billion, the entirety of your Medicaid
participation. So, this is not something that we've
conjured up --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Clement, let's let
this --
JUSTICE BREYER: To make you feel a little
better, I want to pursue this for 1 more minute.
There are cases, and many, of which
Justice Scalia knows as well, which use -- Holly Hill,
uses the same word as this statute: "In the Secretary's
discretion." And in those cases, this Court has said
that doesn't mean the Secretary can do anything that he
or she wants, but rather, they are limited to what is
not arbitrary, capricious, and abuse of discretion, in
interpreting statutes, in applying those statutes, et
cetera.
End of my argument. End of my question.
Respond as you wish.
(Laughter.)
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Breyer, I'm not
sure that the Court's federalism jurisprudence should
force States to depend on how a lower court reads Holly
Hill. I think that really, right here, what we know to
an absolute certainty is that this Secretary -- this
statute gives the Secretary the right to remove all of
the State's funding under these programs.
And think about what that is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: May I ask you a
question, Mr. Clement? Do you think that the Federal
Government couldn't, if it chose -- Congress -- say:
The system doesn't work. We're just simply going to
rehaul it. It's not consistent with how -- what we want
to accomplish. We're just going to do away with the
system and start a new health care plan of some sort.
And, States, you can take the new plan, you can leave
them. We're going to give out 20 percent less, maybe
20 percent more, depending on what Congress chooses.
Can Congress do that? Does it have to
continue the old system because that is what the States
are relying upon, and it's coercive now to give them a
new system?
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Sotomayor, we're not
saying we have a vested right to participate in the
Medicaid program as it exists now. So, if Congress
wanted to scrap the current system and have a new one,
I'm not going to tell you that there's no possibility of
a coercion challenge to it, but I'm -- I'm not going to
say.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what I -- I want
to know how I draw the line, meaning --
MR. CLEMENT: -- this ought -- well, can
we --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- I think the usual
definition of coercion is, I don't have a choice. I'm
not sure what -- why it's not a choice for the States.
They may not pay for something else. If they don't take
Medicaid, and they want to keep the same level of
coverage, they may have to make cuts in their budget to
other services they provide. That's a political choice
of whether they choose to do that or not.
But when have we defined the right or
limited the right of government not to spend money in
the ways that it thinks appropriate?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Sotomayor,
before -- I mean, I'll try to answer that question, too.
But the first part of the question was, you know, what
if the Congress just tried to scrap this and start over
again with a new program?
Here's why this is fundamentally different
and why it's fundamentally more coercive, because
Congress is not saying we want to scrap this program.
They don't have a single complaint, really, with the way
that States are providing services to the visually
impaired and the disabled under pre-existing Medicaid.
And that's why it's particularly questionable why
they're saying that if you don't take our new money,
subject to the new conditions, we're going to take all
of the money you've previously gotten that you've been
dependent on for 45 years, and you're using right now to
serve the visually impaired and the disabled --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Clement, may I -- may
I ask you -- question another line?
You represent, what, 26 States?
MR. CLEMENT: That's right,
Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And we're also told that
there are other States that like this expansion, and
they are very glad to have it.
The relief that you're seeking is to say the
whole expansion is no good, never mind that there are
States that say we don't feel coerced, we think this is
good.
You are -- you're saying that because you
represent a sizeable number of States, you can destroy
this whole program, even though there may be as many
States that want it, that don't feel coerced, that
say -- think this is a good thing?
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Ginsburg, that's
right, but that shouldn't be a terrible concern, because
if Congress wants to do what it did in 1972 and pass a
statute that makes the expansion voluntary, every State
that thinks that this is a great deal can sign up.
What's telling here, though, is 26 States
who think that this is a bad deal for them actually are
also saying that they have no choice but to take this
because they can't afford to have their entire
participation in this 45-year-old program wiped out, and
they have to go back to square one and figure out how
they're going to deal with the visually impaired in
their State, the disabled in their State -- of course --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Clement, I didn't take
the time to figure this out, but maybe you did. Is
there any chance that all 26 States opposing it have
Republican governors, and all of the States supporting
it have Democratic governors?
Is that possible?
MR. CLEMENT: There's a correlation,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. Yes.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let -- let me ask you
another thing, Mr. -- Mr. Clement. Most colleges and
universities are heavily dependent on the government to
fund their research programs and other things, and
that's been going on for a long time. And then Title IX
passes, and a government official comes around and
say -- says to these colleges, if you want money for
your physics labs and all the other things you get it
for, then you have to create an athletic program for
girls. And the recipient says I am being coerced,
there's no way in the world I can give up all the funds
to run all these labs that we have. I can't give it up,
so I'm being coerced to accept this program that I don't
want.
Why doesn't your theory -- if your theory is
any good, why doesn't it work anytime something --
someone receives something that's too good to give up?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg,
there's two reasons that might be different. One is,
this whole line of coercion only applies -- is only
relevant, really, when Congress tries to do something
through the spending power it couldn't do directly.
So if Congress tried to impose Title IX
directly, I guess the question for this Court would be
whether or not Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment
allowed Congress to do that. I imagine you might think
that it did, and I imagine some of your colleagues might
take issue with that, but that's -- that's the nature of
the question.
So, one way around that would be, if
Congress can do it directly, you don't even have to ask
whether there's something special about the spending
power. That's how this Court resolved, for example, the
FAIR case about funding to -- to colleges.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where on your -- I'm
trying to understand your coercion theory. I know that
there are cases of ours that have said there's a line
between pressure and coercion, but we have never had, in
the history of this country or the Court, any Federal
program struck down because it was so good that it
becomes coercive to be in it.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, if --
I'm going -- to say the second thing about my answer to
your prior question, which is just that I also think
that, you know, it may be that spending on certain
private universities is something, again, that Congress
can do, and it doesn't matter whether it's coercion.
But when they're trying to get the States to expand
their Medicaid programs, that's something --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's take -- let's take
public colleges.
MR. CLEMENT: Okay. Then there -- then
there may be some limits on that. I mean -- but again,
I'm not sure, even in that context, there might not be
some things Congress can do. It's a separate question.
But once we take the premise, which I don't
think there's a disagreement here, that Congress could
not simply, as a matter of direct legislation under the
commerce power or something, say, States, you must
expand your Medicaid programs. If we take that as a
given, then I think we have to ask the question of
whether or not it's coercive.
Now, you -- in -- in your second question,
you asked, well, you know, I mean, where's the case that
says that we've crossed that line? And this is that
case, I would respectfully say --
JUSTICE BREYER: And isn't the covenant
going to apply, as well, to the 1980 extension to
children 0 to 6 years old, 1990 requiring the extension
for children up to 18? All those prior extensions, to
me, seem just as big in amount, just about as big in the
number of people coming on the rolls, and they all are
governed by precisely the same statute that you're
complaining of here, which has been in the law since
'65.
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Breyer, I don't think
that our position here would necessarily extend to say
the 1984 amendments, and let me tell you why. You know,
I'm -- I'm not saying that absolutely that's guaranteed
that's not coercive, but here's reasons why they're
different.
The one major difference is the size of the
program. I mean, the expansion of Medicaid since 1984
is really breathtaking. Medicaid, circa 1984, the
Federal spending to the States was a shade over
$21 billion. Right now, it's $250 billion, and that's
before the expansion under this statute.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, if you are right,
Mr. Clement, doesn't that mean that Medicaid is
unconstitutional now?
MR. CLEMENT: Not necessarily,
Justice Kagan. And, again, it's because we're not here
with a one trick pony. And this -- one of the
factors -- we point you to three factors that make this
statute uniquely coercive. One of them is the sheer
size of this program.
And, you know, if you want a -- if you want
a gauge on the size of this program, the best place to
look is the government's own number. Footnote 6, page 10
of their brief.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, when does a program
become too big? I'd want you to -- give me a dollar
number.
MR. CLEMENT: $3.3 trillion over the next 10
years. That's -- that is --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I thought $1 trillion --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'll tell you this number,
which I did look up, that the amount, approximately, if
you look into it -- as a percentage of GDP, it's big,
but it was before this somewhere about 2-point-something
percent, fairly low, of GDP. It'll go up to something a
little bit over 3 percent of GDP. And now go look at
the comparable numbers, which I did look at, with the
expansion that we're talking about before.
The expansion from 0 to 18 or even from 0 to
6. And while you can argue those numbers, it's pretty
hard to argue that they aren't roughly comparable as a
percentage of the prior program or as a percentage of
GDP.
If I'm right on those numbers or even
roughly right -- I don't guarantee them -- then would
you have to say, well, indeed, Medicaid has been
unconstitutional since 1964.
And if not, why not?
MR. CLEMENT: The answer is no, and that's
because we're here saying there are three things that
make this statute unique.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What are your second and
third? I'm on pins and needles to hear your second --
(Laughter.)
MR. CLEMENT: Yes, exactly.
Well, one is the sheer size. Two is the
fact that this statute uniquely is tied to an individual
mandate which is decidedly nonvoluntary. And three is
the fact that they've leveraged the prior participation
in the program, notwithstanding that they've broken this
out as a separately segregated fund going forward, which
is not to prove --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, on the third -- on the
third, suppose you have the current program and Congress
wakes up tomorrow and says we think that there's too
much fraud and abuse in the program, and we're going to
put some new conditions on how the States use this money
so we can prevent fraud and abuse, and we're going to
tie it to everything that's been there initially.
Unconstitutional?
MR. CLEMENT: No, I think that is
constitutional because I think that's something that
Congress could do directly. It wouldn't have to limit
that to the spending program. And I think 18 U.S.C. 666
is -- is a statute -- you know, it may -- it's in the
criminal code. It may be tied to spending, but I think
that's -- that's a provision that I don't think its
constitutionality's called into question.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess I don't get the
idea. I mean, Congress can legislate fraud and abuse
restrictions in Medicaid, and Congress can legislate
coverage expansions in Medicaid.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kagan, I think
there's a difference, but if I'm wrong about that and
the consequence is that Congress has to break Medicaid
down into remotely manageable pieces as opposed to
$3.3 trillion over 10 years before the expansion, I
don't think that would be the end of the world. But I
really would ask you to focus on specifically what's
going on here, which is they take these newly eligible
people -- and that's a massive change in the way the
program works.
These are people who are healthy, childless
adults who are not covered in many States. They say,
okay, we're going to make you cover those. We're going
to have a separate program for how you get reimbursed
for that. You get reimbursed differently from all the
previously eligible individuals. But if you don't take
our money, we're going to take away your participation
in the program for the visually impaired and the
disabled.
If I may reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm -- I'm not
sure my colleagues have exhausted their questions.
So --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess my greatest
fear, Mr. Clement, with your argument is the following:
The bigger the problem, the more resources it needs.
We're going to tie the hands of the Federal Government
in choosing how to structure a cooperative relationship
with the States. We're going to say to the Federal
Government, the bigger the problem, the less your powers
are, because once you give that much money, you can't
structure the program the way you want. It's our money,
Federal Government. We're going to have to run the
program ourself to protect all our interests.
I don't see where to draw that line.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, if you --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The uninsured are a
problem for States only because they, too, politically,
just like the Federal Government, can't let the poor
die. And so, to the extent they don't want to do that,
it's because they feel accountable to their citizenry.
And so, if they want to do it their way, they have to
spend the money to do it their way, if they don't want
to do it the Federal way.
So, I -- I just don't understand the logic
of saying, States, you can't -- you don't -- you're not
entitled to our money, but once you start taking it, the
more you take, the more power you have.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Sotomayor, a
couple of points. One is, I actually think that sort of
misdescribes what happened with Medicaid. I mean,
States were, as you suggest, providing for the poor and
the visually impaired and the disabled even before
Medicaid came along. Then all of a sudden, States --
the Federal Government said, look, we'd like to help you
with that, and we're going to give you money
voluntarily. And then over time, they give more money
with more conditions. And now they decide they're going
to totally expand the program, and they say that you
have to give up even your prior program, where we --
first came in and offered you cooperation, we're now
going to say you have to give that up if you don't take
our new conditions.
Secondarily, I do think that our principle
is not that when you get past a certain level, it
automatically becomes coercive per se. But I do think
when you get a program and you're basically telling
States that, look, we're going to take away
$3.3 trillion over the next 10 years, that at that
point, it's okay to insist that Congress be a little
more careful that it not be so aggressively coercive as
it was in this statute.
And I would simply say that -- we're not
here to tell you that this is going to be an area where
it's going to be very easy to draw the line. We're just
telling you that it's exceptionally important to draw
that line, and this is a case where it ought to be easy
to establish a beachhead, say that coercion matters, say
there's three factors of this particular statute that
make it as obviously coercive as any piece of
legislation that you've ever seen, and then you will
have effectively instructed Congress that there are
limits, and you will have laid down some administrable
rules.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Clement, the Chief has
said I can ask this.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He doesn't always
check first.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: As -- as I recall your --
your theory, it is that to determine whether something
is coercive, you look to only one side, how much you're
threatened with losing or offered to receive. And the
other side doesn't matter.
I don't think that's realistic. I mean, I
think, you know, the -- the old Jack Benny thing, your
money or your life, and, you know, he says, "I'm
thinking, I'm thinking." It's -- it's funny, because
it's no choice. You know? Your life? Again, it's just
money. It's an easy choice. No coercion, right? I
mean -- right?
Now, whereas, if -- if the choice were your
life or your wife's, that's a lot harder.
Now, is it -- is it coercive in both
situations?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, yes. It is.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Really?
JUSTICE BREYER: Knew you would say that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a tough choice.
And -- and --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought you were going
to say this statute is your money and your life.
(Laughter.)
MR. CLEMENT: And it is. But I mean --
JUSTICE BREYER: Which way?
MR. CLEMENT: I might have missed something,
but both of those seem to be --
(Laughter.)
MR. CLEMENT: -- to be the hallmarks of
coercion.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, no. To say -- to
say you're -- when you say you're coerced, it means
you've been -- you've been given an offer you can't
refuse. Okay? You can't refuse your money or your
life. But your life or your wife's, I could refuse that
one.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Clement, he's not
going home tonight.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, let's leave the
wife out of it.
MR. CLEMENT: I was going to say,
Mrs. Clement's not going to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I'm talking about my
life. I'd say take mine, you know?
(Laughter.)
MR. CLEMENT: I wouldn't do that either,
Justice.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How could we use that
example?
Forget about it.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's enough
frivolity for a while.
But I want to make sure I understand where
the meaningfulness of the choice is taken away. Is it
the amount that's being offered, that it's just so much
money, of course you can't turn it down, or is it the
amount that's going to be taken away if you don't take
what they're offering?
MR. CLEMENT: It's both, Your Honor. And I
think that that's -- I mean, there really is -- there
really is, you know, three strings in this bow. I mean,
one is the sheer amount of money here makes it very,
very difficult to refuse, because it's not money that,
you know, that's come from some -- you know, China or
from -- you know, the ­ the ­ the export tariffs like in
the old day. It's coming from the taxpayers. So,
that's part of it.
The fact that they're being asked to give up
their continuing participation in a program that they've
been participating in for 45 years as a condition to
accept the new program, we think that's the second thing
that's critical --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why isn't that
a consequence of how willing they have been since the
New Deal to take the Federal Government's money? And it
seems to me that they have compromised their status as
independent sovereigns because they are so dependent on
what the Federal Government has done, they should not be
surprised that the Federal Government, having attached
the -- they tied the strings, they shouldn't be
surprised if the Federal Government isn't going to start
pulling them.
MR. CLEMENT: With all due respect,
Mr. Chief Justice, I don't think we can say that, you
know, the States have gotten pretty dependent, so let's
call this whole federalism thing off. And I just think
it's too important, because, again, the consequence --
if you think about it -- if -- the consequence of saying
that we're not going to police the coercion line here
shouldn't be that well, you know, it's just too hard, so
we'll give the Federal Congress unlimited spending
power.
The consequence ought to be, if you really
can't police this line, then you should go back and
reconsider your cases that say that Congress can spend
money on things that it can't do directly.
Now, we're not asking you to go that far.
We're simply saying that, look, your spending power
cases absolutely depend on there being a line between
coercion --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But could you tell me --
MR. CLEMENT: -- and voluntary action.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't understand your
first answer to Justice Kagan. You don't see there
being a difference between the Federal Government saying
we want to take care of the poor; States, if you do
this, we'll pay 100 percent of your administrative
costs.
And you said that could be coercion. All
right? Doesn't the amount of burden that the State
undertakes to meet the Federal obligation count in this
equation at all?
MR. CLEMENT: It -- it certainly can,
Justice Sotomayor. I didn't mean to suggest, in
answering Justice Kagan's question, that my case was no
better than that hypothetical. I mean, but it's in the
nature of things that I do think the amount of the
money, even considered alone, does make a difference,
and it's precisely because it has an effect on their
ability to raise revenue from their own citizens. So,
it's not just free money that they are turning down if
they want to; it really is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, if we go back
to that era of matching what a State pays to what a
State gets, Florida loses. Its citizens pay out much
less than what they get back in Federal subsidies of all
kinds. So, you can't really be making the argument that
Florida can't ask for more than it gives, because it's
really giving less than it receives.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, then I'll make --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You don't really want to
go back to that point, do you?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, then I'll make that
argument on behalf of Texas.
(Laughter.)
MR. CLEMENT: But it's not -- it's not what
my argument depends on, and that's the critical thing.
It's one aspect of what makes this statute uniquely
coercive.
And I really think if you ask the question,
what explains the idea that if you don't take this new
money, you're going to lose all your money under what
you have been doing for 45 years to help out the
visually impaired and the disabled? Nobody in Congress
wants the States to stop doing that. They're just doing
it, and it's purely coercive, to condition the money.
It's leverage, pure and simple.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If the inevitable
consequence of your position was that the Federal
Government could just do this on its own, the Federal
Government could have Medicaid, Medicare, and these
insurance regulations -- assuming that's true -- then
how are the interests of federalism concerned? How are
the interests of federalism concerned if, in Florida or
Texas or some of the other objecting States, there are
huge Federal bureaucracies doing what this bill allows
the State bureaucracies to do?
I know you've thought about that. I'd just
like your answer.
MR. CLEMENT: I have, and I would like to
elaborate, but the one-word answer is "accountability."
If the Federal Government decides to spend
money through Federal instrumentalities, and the citizen
is hacked off about it, they can bring a Federal
complaint to a Federal official working in a Federal
agency.
And what makes this so pernicious is that
the Federal Government knows that the citizenry is not
going to take lightly the idea that there are huge, new
Federal bureaucracies popping up across the country.
And so, they get the benefit of administering this
program through State officials, but then it makes it
very confusing for the citizen who doesn't like this.
Do they complain to the State official because it's
being administered by a State official in a State
building? Or do they --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Clement --
MR. CLEMENT: -- or do they --
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- that is very confusing,
because the idea behind cooperative Federal/State
programs was exactly a federalism idea. It was to give
the States the ability to administer those programs. It
was to give the States a great deal of flexibility in
running those programs. And that's exactly what
Medicaid is.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, that's exactly what
Medicaid was. The question is, what will it be going
forward?
And I absolutely take your point,
Justice Kagan. Cooperative federalism is a beautiful
thing. Mandatory federalism has very little to
recommend it, because it poses exactly --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Cooperative federalism --
MR. CLEMENT: -- the kind of
accountability --
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- does not mean that there
are no Federal mandates and no Federal restrictions
involved in a program that uses 90 percent here,
100 percent Federal money. It means there's flexibility
built into the program subject to certain rules that the
Federal Government has about how it wishes its money to
be used.
It's like giving a gift certificate. If I
give you a gift certificate for one store, you can't use
it for other stores. But still, you can use it for all
kinds of different things.
MR. CLEMENT: But -- I absolutely agree that
if it's cooperative federalism and the States have
choices, then that is perfectly okay. But when --
that's why voluntariness in coercion is so important.
Because if you force a State to participate in a Federal
program, then -- I mean, as long as it's voluntary, then
a State official shouldn't complain if a citizen
complains to the State about the way the State's
administering a Federal program that it volunteered to
participate in. But at the point it becomes coercive,
then it's not fair to tell the citizen to complain to
the State official, they had no choice.
But who do they complain to at the Federal
level? There's nobody there, which would be -- I'm not
saying it's the best solution to have Federal
instrumentalities in every State, but it actually is
better than what you get when you have mandatory
federalism, and you lose the accountability that is
central to the federalism provisions in the
Constitution.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Clement.
General Verrilli.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
The Affordable Care Act's Medicaid expansion
provisions will provide millions of Americans with the
opportunity to have access to essential health care that
they cannot now afford. It is an exercise of the
Spending Clause power that complies with all of the
limits set forth in this Court's decision in Dole, and
the States do not contend otherwise. The States are
asking this Court to do something unprecedented, which
is to declare this an impermissibly coercive exercise
of power.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you think we --
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- of power --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- meant in -- in those --
those dicta in -- in several prior cases, where we've
said that the Federal Government cannot be coercive
through the Spending Clause? What -- what do you think
we were -- give -- give us a hypothetical.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. First, if I could
just try to be a little more precise about it,
Justice Scalia, I think the -- what the Court said in
Steward Machine and in Dole is that it's possible that
you might envision a situation in which there's
coercion.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And the courts didn't say
much more, but I can think of something.
One example I could think of that might
serve as a limit would be a Coyle-type situation, in
which the condition attached was a -- worked a
fundamental transformation in the structure of State
government in a situation in which the State didn't have
a choice but to accept it. But -- and so --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But anything else, so long
as you --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, but I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- you have to have --
you're talking about situations where they have to
locate their statehouse in some other city --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Or a unicameral
legislature, or something like that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and they have no choice.
But short of that, they can make the State do anything
at all?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, no. Dole -- the
Dole conditions are real. The germaneness condition in
Dole is real, for example. And so -- so those --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But none of those
have addressed the coercion question.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, do you think it
would be all right for the Federal Government to say,
same program: States, you can take this or you can
leave it, but if you don't take it, you lose every last
dollar of Federal funding for every program?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think that would raise
a germaneness issue, Mr. Chief Justice, but it's not
what we --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But there's no
coercion question at all?
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- have here.
Well, but I think -- I think -- I think
they're related. I think that the germaneness inquiry
in Dole really gets at coercion in some circumstances,
and that's why I think they are related. But we don't
have that here.
And if I could, I would like to address --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I know we don't
have that here. How does germaneness get -- get
to coercion?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, because it gets to
be harder to see what --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's germaneness;
there's no --
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- what the connection is
between getting you to do A and the money you're getting
for --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, it fails because
it's not germane. But you're saying it would not fail
because it was coercive?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think that -- as
I said, I think they're really trying to get at the same
thing. And I -- but I do think it's quite different
here. And I -- I would like to, if I could, take up
each of the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. I know
it's -- I know it's different here. I'm just trying to
understand if you accept the fact or regard it as true
that there is a coercion limit, or that once the Federal
Government -- once you're taking Federal Government
money, the Federal Government money -- can take it back,
and that doesn't affect the voluntariness of your
choice?
Because it does seem like a serious problem.
We're assuming, under the Spending Clause the Federal
Government cannot do this. Under the Constitution it
cannot do this. But if it gets the State to agree to
it, well then it can.
And the concern is, if you can say, if you
don't agree to this you lose all your money, whether
that's really saying the -- the limitation in the
Constitution is -- is largely meaningless.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, but I -- but I
don't think that this is a case that presents that
question, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, I know. I'm
just -- I know this -- I don't know if I'll grant it to
you or not, but let's assume it's not this case.
Do you recognize any limitation on that
concern?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think the Court
has said, in Steward Machine and Dole, that this is
something that needs to be considered in an appropriate
case, and we acknowledge that. But I do think it's so
dependent on the circumstances that it's very hard to
say in the abstract with respect to a particular program
that there is a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can't imagine a case in
which it is both germane and yet coercive, is what
you're saying. There is no such case as far as you
know.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I'm -- I'm not
prepared to -- to say right here that I can -- that ­
I'm not prepared to give that decision.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I wouldn't think that
that's a surprise question. I mean, you know --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I -- Congress has
authority to act and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Hey, I can't think of one.
I'm not blaming you for not thinking of one.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL VERRILLI: But I do think -- but I
do think -- I really do think that it's important to
look at this -- an issue like this, if you're going to
consider it, it's got to be considered in the factual
context --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me give --
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- in which it arises.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- you a factual context.
Let's say Congress says this to the States: We -- we've
got great news for you. We know that your expenditures
on education are a huge financial burden, so we're going
to take that completely off your shoulders. We are
going to impose a special Federal education tax which
will raise exactly the same amount of money as all of
the States now spend on education, and then we are going
to give you a grant that is equal to what you spent on
education last year.
Now, this is a great offer and we think you
will take it, but of course, if you take it, it's going
to have some conditions because we're going to set rules
on teacher tenure, on collective bargaining, on
curriculum, on textbooks, class size, school calendar,
and many other things. So, take it or leave it.
If you take it, you have to follow our rules
on all of these things. If you leave it, well, then
you're going to have to fine -- you are going to have to
tax your citizens, they're going to have to pay the
Federal education tax. But on top of that, you're going
to have to tax them for all of the money that you're now
spending on education, plus all of the Federal funds
that you were previously given.
Would that be -- would that reach the
point -- would that be the point where financial
inducement turns into coercion?
GENERAL VERRILLI: No, I don't think so --
JUSTICE ALITO: No?
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- because they do -- the
States do have a choice there, especially as a -- as a
going-in proposition. I mean, the argument the States
are making here is not that they're -- that -- this is
not a going-in proposition. Their -- their argument is
that they're -- they are in a position where they don't
have a choice because of everything that's happened
before. But --
JUSTICE ALITO: You might be right. But if
that's the case, then there's nothing left --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, but as a --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- of federalism.
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- as a practical
matter -- I disagree with that, Justice Alito. First of
all, as a practical matter, there's a pretty serious
political constraint on that situation ever arising,
because it's not like the Federal Government is going to
have an easy time of raising the kinds of tax revenues
that need to be -- needed to raised to work that kind of
fundamental transformation, and that's real. And -- and
political constraints do operate to protect federalism
in this area, and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would have thought there
was a serious political strain -- constraint on the
individual mandate, too, but that didn't work.
What you call serious political constraints
sometimes don't work.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But -- but with respect
to a situation like that one, Justice Scalia, the -- the
States have their education system, and they can decide
whether they're going to go in or not. But here, of
course, I think it's important to trace through the
history of Medicaid. It is not the case, as my friend
from the other side suggested, that the norm here is
that the Federal Government has offered to the States
the opportunity either to stay where they are or add the
new piece.
We can debate that proposition with respect
to 1972 one way or another. The States have one view
about that; we have a different one. But starting in
the 1984 expansion, with respect to pregnant women and
infants, it was an expansion of the entire program;
States were given the choice to stay in the entire
program or not. 1989, when the program was expanded to
children under 6 years of age, under 133 percent of
poverty, same thing. 1990, kids 6 to 18 and 100 percent
of poverty, same thing. In fact, every major expansion,
same thing.
And so, I just think the history of the
program, and particularly when you read that in context
of 42 U.S.C. 1304, which reserves the right of the
Federal Government to amend the program going forward,
shows you that this is something that the States have
understood all along. This has been the evolution of
it, and with respect to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could you give me
some assurance? We heard the question about whether or
not the Secretary would use this authority to the extent
available. Are there circumstances where you are willing
to say that that would not be permissible? I'm thinking
of the Arizona letter, for example. I mean, if I had
the authority and I was in that position, I would use it
all the time. You might -- you want some little change
made? Well, guess what, I can take away all your money
if you don't make it. I win.
Every time, it seems that that would be the
case.
So, why shouldn't we be concerned about the
extent of authority that the government is exercising
simply because they could do something less? We have to
analyze the case on the assumption that that power will
be exercised, don't we?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, Mr. Chief Justice,
it would not be responsible of me to stand here in
advance of any particular situation becoming -- coming
before the Secretary of Health and Human Services and
commit to how that would be resolved one way or another.
But that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I appreciate
that. I appreciate that, but I guess --
GENERAL VERRILLI: That discretion is there
in the statute, and I think there's every reason to
think it's real, but I do think, getting back to the
circumstances here --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, General, what's the --
been the history of its use? Has the Secretary in fact
ever made use of that authority?
GENERAL VERRILLI: That's correct, Justice
Kagan. It's never been used to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about the
Arizona letter we just heard about today?
GENERAL VERRILLI: It has never been used to
cut off --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's been used to
threaten --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course, no State
is going say, okay, go ahead, make my day, take it away.
They're going to -- they're going to give in.
GENERAL VERRILLI: If we could go to the
situation we have here, Mr. Chief Justice, this -- with
respect to the Medicaid expansion, the States' argument
is, as they've said it in their briefs, they
articulated a little bit different this morning -- this
afternoon. But as they said it in their briefs was it's
not what you stand to gain, but what you stand to lose.
But I think an important thing in evaluating
that argument in this context is fully 60 percent of
Medicaid expenditures in this country are based on
optional choices. And I don't mean by that the optional
choices of the States to stay in the program in '84 or
'88 or '89. But -- but States are given choices to
expand the beneficiaries beyond the Federal minimum and
to expand services beyond the Federal minimum.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And just a small point,
and please correct me if I'm wrong. It -- does this Act
not require States to keep at the present level their
existing Medicaid expenditure? So, some States may have
been more generous than others in Medicaid, but this Act
freezes that so the States can't go back. Or am I
incorrect?
GENERAL VERRILLI: It's much more nuanced
than that, Justice Kennedy. There is something called a
maintenance of effort provision which lasts until 2014,
until such time as the Medicaid expansion takes place
and the exchanges are in place. That applies to the
population. It says, with respect to the population,
you can't take anybody out. It does not apply to the
optional benefits where the States still have
flexibility. They can still reduce optional benefits
that they're now providing if they -- if they want to,
to control costs. They can also work on provider rates.
There's also -- with respect to demonstration projects
by which some States have expanded their populations
beyond the required eligibility levels, they don't have
to keep them in. And then there's also, if the State
has a budgetary crisis, it can get a waiver of that, as
Wisconsin did. So, that is a -- that's a provision I
think that does a significant degree less than my
friends on the other side have suggested in terms of --
in terms of its effect, and its effect beyond that is
just temporary.
But I do think with respect to the -- the
first of their three arguments for coercion, the sheer
size argument, that it's very difficult to see how that
is going to work, because if the question is about what
you stand to lose rather than what you stand to gain,
then it seems to me that it doesn't matter whether the
Medicaid expansion is substantial or whether it's
modest, or whether there's any expansion at all. The
States, for example -- the Federal Government, for
example, could decide that under the -- under the
current system, too much money has ended up flowing to
nursing home care and that money would be better serving
the general welfare if it were directed at infants and
children.
But if the Federal Government said we're
going to redirect the spending priorities of the Federal
money that we're offering to you, the States could say,
well, geez, we don't like that; we'd like to keep
spending the money the way we were, and we have no
choice, because this has gotten too big for us to exit.
And so -- and in fact, it seems to me, standing here
today before these expansions take place, under their
theory, the provision is coercive.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The smaller it, is the
bigger the coercion.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The smaller what you're
demanding of them, the bigger the coercion to go along.
GENERAL VERRILLI: The more they stand to
lose. And so -- and then I think it -- I'm sorry,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Just before you leave that,
I'd appreciate it if you would expand a little bit on
the answer to Justice Kagan's question for the reason,
when I read the cutoff statute, which as I said has been
there since 1965 unchanged, it does refer to the
Secretary's discretion to keep the funding, insofar as
the funding has no relationship to the failure to comply
with the condition.
And as I read that, that gives the Secretary
the authority to cut off all the money that the States'
refusal to accept the condition means they shouldn't
have. But nothing there says they can go beyond that
and cut off unrelated money. Now, there is a sentence,
says maybe they could do that. But I thought they had
to exercise that within reason.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know when it be
reasonable. So, you've looked into it, and that's what
I want to know.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there -- I could find no
instance where they went beyond the funds that were
related to the thing that the State refused to do or
things affected by that. I would like you to tell me,
when you looked into it, that what I thought of in this
isolation chamber here is actually true. Or whether
they have gone around threatening people that we will
cut off totally unrelated funds.
What is the situation?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think the situation is
generally as you've described it, but I do want to be
careful in saying I don't think it would be responsible
of me to commit now that the Secretary would exercise
the discretion uniformly in one way or another.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that's
just saying that when, you know, the analogy that has
been used, the gun to your head, "your money or your
life," you say, well, there's no evidence that anyone
has ever been shot.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's because
you have to give up your wallet. You don't have a
choice.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you cannot --
you cannot represent that the Secretary has never said:
And if you don't do it, we're going to take away all the
funds.
They cite the Arizona example. I suspect
there are others, because that is the leverage.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But it --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm not saying
there's anything wrong with it.
GENERAL VERRILLI: It's not coercion, Mr.
Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Wait a second. It's
not -- it's not coercion -- well, I guess that's what
the case is. It's not coercion --
GENERAL VERRILLI: It's not coercion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- to say I'm going
to take away all your funds, no matter how minor the
infringement?
GENERAL VERRILLI: But, of course --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know if that's so.
And all I asked in my question was I didn't ask you to
commit the Secretary to anything. I wanted to know what
the facts are.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I --
JUSTICE BREYER: I wanted to know what you
found in researching this case. I wanted you, in other
words, to answer the question the Chief Justice has: Is
it a common thing that that happens, that this unrelated
threat is made? Or isn't it?
GENERAL VERRILLI: It's -- my understanding
is that these situations are usually worked out back and
forth between the States and the Federal Government.
And I think that most --
JUSTICE BREYER: You're not privy to conversations.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And I'm not. And -- but
the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And who wins?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think -- that's
what I think is the problem here, Justice Scalia, is it
seems to me we're operating under a conception that
isn't right.
The reason we've had all these Medicaid
expansions, and the reason, it seems to me, why we are
were where we are now and why 60 percent of what's being
spent on Medicaid is based on voluntary decisions by the
States to expand beyond what Federal law requires, is
because this is a good program and it works. And the
States generally like what it accomplishes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And, General Verrilli --
JUSTICE ALITO: And General Verrilli, is this --
is this discussion realistic? The objective of the
Affordable Care Act is to provide near universal health
care.
Now, suppose that all of the 26 States that
are parties to this case were to say, well, we're not
going to -- we're not going to abide by the new
conditions. Then, there would be a huge portion -- a
big portion of the population that would not have health
care.
And it's a realistic possibility that the
Secretary is going to say, well, okay, fine, you know,
we're going to cut off your new funds, but we're not
going to cut off your old funds, and just let that
condition sit there?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, just as I can't
make a commitment that the authority wouldn't be
exercised, I'm not going to make a commitment that it
would be exercised. But I do think that that -- to try
and move away from the first of their arguments, the
sheer size argument, to the second one, which is that
it's coercive by virtue of its relationship to the
Affordable Care Act, I really think that that's a
misconception, and I'd like to be able to take a minute
and walk through and explain why that is.
JUSTICE KAGAN: General Verrilli, before you
do that, I'm sorry, but in response to the
Chief Justice's question, I mean, "the money or your
life" has consequence because we're worried that that
person is actually going to shoot. So, I think that
this question about are -- what do we think the
Secretary is going to do is an important one.
And as I understand it, I mean, when the
Secretary withdraws funds, what the Secretary is doing
is withdrawing funds from poor people's health care, and
that the Secretary is reluctant and loath to take money
away from poor people's health care and that that's why
these things are always worked out. It's that the
Secretary really doesn't want to use this power, and so
the Secretary sits down with the State and figures out a
way for the Secretary not to use the power.
GENERAL VERRILLI: That's correct,
Justice Kagan. That is no --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, what the --
GENERAL VERRILLI: I'm sorry --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Go ahead.
GENERAL VERRILLI: That's another way of
trying to say what I was trying to say to Justice Scalia
earlier, is that the States and the Federal Government
share a common objective here, which is to get health
care to the needy. And, in the vast majority of
instances, they work together to make that happen.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but the
question is not -- obviously, the States are interested
in the same objective, and they have a disagreement, or
they have budget realities that they have to deal with.
And States say, well, we're going to cut by 10 percent
what we reimburse this for or that for, and the Federal
Government says, well, you can't.
And no one is suggesting that people want to
cut health care, but they have different views about how
to implement policy in this area.
And the concern is that the Secretary has
the total and complete say because the Secretary has the
authority under this provision to say you lose
everything. No one has suggested in the normal course
that will happen, but so long as the Federal Government
has that power, it seems to be a significant intrusion
on the sovereign interests of the State.
Now, I'm not -- it may be something they
gave up many decades ago when they decided to live off
Federal funds, but I don't think you can deny that it's
a significant authority that we're giving the Federal
Government to say you can take away everything if the
States don't buy into the next program.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, but what I would
say about that, Mr. Chief Justice, is that we recognize
that these decisions aren't going to be easy decisions
in some circumstances. As a practical matter, there may
be circumstances in which they are very difficult
decisions. But that's different from saying that
they're coercive, and it's different from saying that is
an -- that it's an unconstitutional --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why is it different? Why
is it different? I mean, I thought it might be very
unlikely a State would ever say that the government --
Federal Government would say here's a condition that you
have to have a certain kind of eyeglasses for people who
don't see. And, by the way, if you don't do that, we'll
take away $42 billion of funding. Okay?
I thought such a thing would not happen.
And I thought if it tried to happen, that it's governed
by the APA, and the person with the eyeglasses would say
it's arbitrary, capricious, abuse of discretion. And
that's so even though the statute says it's in the
discretion of the Secretary.
But Mr. -- your colleague and brother says
no, I'm wrong about the law there, and, moreover, they
would do it. That's what I'm hearing now.
GENERAL VERRILLI: No. I --
JUSTICE BREYER: That they would do it, and
they do do it, and -- et cetera. So, I'd like a little
clarification.
GENERAL VERRILLI: In the situation
described in your hypothetical, Justice Breyer, I think
it's -- the Secretary of Health and Human Services would
never do it. But what I'm saying is, with respect to
the Medicaid expansion in this case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Could never do it or
wouldn't?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Would never do it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's your prediction.
Okay.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, and I think that it
would have to satisfy the Administrative Procedure Act,
and that's a real constraint. What I'm not -- what I
don't feel able to do here is to say with respect to
this Medicaid expansion --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are you willing to
acknowledge that the Administrative Procedure Act is a
limitation on the Secretary's ability to cut off all the
funds; she can't do it if it -- if that would be
unreasonable? Are you willing to accept that? I
wouldn't if I were you.
GENERAL VERRILLI: So --
(Laughter.)
GENERAL VERRILLI: What I'm -- what I'm
trying to do here is to -- is to suggest that the
Secretary does have discretion under the statute, and
that that -- and that's not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Indeed, part of the
discretion is to cut off all of the funds. That's what
the statute says, and I think --.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And it is possible, and
I'm not willing to give that away. But that doesn't
make this --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, General Verrilli,
you're not willing to give away whether the APA would
bar that, but the APA surely has to apply to a
discretionary act of the Secretary.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I agree with that,
Justice Kagan, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: What's making you
reluctant?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I'm not trying to be --
I'm not trying to be reluctant. I understand how -- how
this works. I'm trying to be careful about the
authority of the Secretary of Health and Human Services
and how it will apply in the future.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I wouldn't worry a lot if I
were you. I don't know of any case that, where the
Secretary's discretion explicitly includes a certain
act, we have held that, nevertheless, that act cannot be
performed unless we think it reasonable. I don't know
any case like that.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Holly Hill.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, when there's just a
general grant of discretion, it has to be exercised
reasonably. But maybe Justice Breyer knows such a case.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I do.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. Give it to me.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL VERRILLI: If I could go back to the
sheer size idea, there are, I think, another couple of
points that are important in thinking about whether
that's a principle courts could ever apply.
Once you get into that business -- in
addition to the problem I identified earlier, that it
basically means that Congress has frozen in place now,
based on the size of the program, you've got this
additional issue of having to make a judgment about in
what circumstances will -- will the loss of the Federal
funding be so significant that you would count it
as being coercive.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose one test could
be -- I just don't see that it would be very workable --
is whether or not it's so big that accountability is
lost, that it is not clear to the citizen that the State
or the Federal Government is administering the program,
even though it's a State administrator.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, but I think -- I
think this going to come from a --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I think that's
unworkable.
GENERAL VERRILLI: This is going to come
from a withdrawal situation. Their argument's about
it's what you stand to lose, and with respect to
withdrawal -- I mean -- so, does it depend on -- is it
an absolute or a relative number with respect to how
much of the State budget? Is it a situation where you
have to make a calculation about how hard would it be
for that State to make up in State tax revenues the
Federal revenue they would lose? Does that depend on
whether it's a high tax State or a low tax State? It
just seems to me -- and then, what is the political
climate in that State? It seems to me like --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In your view -- in your
view, does federalism require that there be a relatively
clear line of accountability for political acts?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, of course, it does,
Justice Kennedy. But, here --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that subsumed in the
coercion test, or is that an independent test?
GENERAL VERRILLI: You know, here, the
coercion test, as it's been discussed, I think, for
example, in Justice O'Connor's dissent in Dole and in
some of the other literature, does address federalism
concerns in the sense of the Federal Government using
Federal funding in one area to try to get States to act
in an area where the Federal Government may not have
Article I authority.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But, as Your Honor
suggested earlier, this is a situation in which, while
it is certainly true that the Federal Government
couldn't require the States, as the Chief Justice
indicated, to carry out this program, the Federal
Government could, as Your Honor suggested, expand
Medicare and do it itself.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But do you agree that
there still is inherent, implicit in the idea of
federalism, necessary for the idea of federalism, that
there be a clear line of accountability so the citizen
knows that it's the Federal or the State government who
should be held responsible for their program?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Certainly, but I
think the problem here is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And does coercion relate
to that, or is that a separate --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, but I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- is that a separate
doctrine?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think it relates
to it in the opposite way that my friends on the other
side would like it to, in that I think their argument is
that it would subject us to such a high degree of
political accountability at the State level to withdraw
ourselves from the program, that it's an unpalatable
choice for us, and that's where the coercive effect
comes from. And that's why I think coercion --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but I think the
answer would be that the State wants to preserve its
integrity, its identity, its responsibility in the
Federal system.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And it may -- and, of
course, it may do so, and it can make --
JUSTICE SCALIA: May it do so?
Doesn't the question come down to this --
maybe you can answer this "yes." But isn't the question
simply: Is it conceivable to you, as it was evidently
not to Congress, that any State would turn down this
offer, that they can't refuse? Is it conceivable to you
that any State would have said no to this program?
Congress didn't think that, because some of its other
provisions are based on the assumption that every single
State will be in this thing.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, do you -- can you
conceive of a State saying no? And -- and if you can't,
that sounds like coercion to me.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think -- I think
Congress predicted that States would stay in this
program, but the -- prediction is not coercion. And the
reason Congress predicted it, I think, Justice Scalia,
is because the Federal Government is paying 90-plus
percent of the costs. It increases State costs by 21
percent.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, what do you predict?
If you predict the same, that 100 percent of the States
will accept it, that sounds like coercion.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Prediction is not
coercion. I disagree, Justice Scalia. That's just an
assumption, and if it proves to be wrong, then Congress
has time to recalibrate. And beyond that, I do think --
I just want to go back to the -- the other part of Your
Honor's point -- that with respect to the relationship
between Medicaid and the -- and the Act and particularly
the minimum coverage provision, my friend Mr. Clement
has suggested that you can infer coercion because, with
respect to the population to which the provision
applies, if there's no Medicaid, there's no other way
for them to satisfy the requirement.
I want to work through that for a minute, if
I may, because it's just incorrect.
First of all, with respect to anybody at
100 percent of the poverty line or above, there is an
alternative in the statute. It's the exchanges with tax
credits and with subsidies to insurance companies. So,
with respect to that, the part of the population at
100 percent of poverty to 133 percent of poverty, the --
the statute actually has an alternative for them.
For people below 100 percent of poverty, it
is true that there is no insurance alternative. But by
the same token, there is no penalty that is going to be
imposed on anybody in that group.
To begin with, right now, the level of
100 percent of poverty is $10,800. The -- the
requirement for filing a Federal income tax return is
$9500. So, anybody below $9500, no penalty, because
they don't have to file an income tax return. The
sliver of people between $9500 and $10,800 -- the
question there is, are they going to be able to find
health insurance that will cost them less than 8 percent
of their income? And so --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I'm not following this
argument. Take the poorest of the poor. If there is no
Medicaid program, then they're not going to get health
care. Isn't that right?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, that's true. But
this --
JUSTICE ALITO: And so, Congress obviously
assumed -- it thought it was inconceivable that any
State would reject this offer, because the objective of
the Affordable Care Act is to provide near-universal
care, and Medicaid is the way to provide care for at
least the poorest of the poor. So, it just didn't occur
to them that this was a possibility. When --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I --
JUSTICE ALITO: When that's the case, how
can that not be coercion?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, it --
JUSTICE ALITO: Unless it's just a gift.
Unless it's just purely a gift.
And it comes back to the question of whether
you think it makes a difference that the money -- a lot
of the money to pay for this is going to come out of the
same taxpayers that the States have to tax to get their
money.
GENERAL VERRILLI: This is -- this is a --
this is -- these are Federal dollars that Congress has
offered to the States and said we're going to make this
offer to you, but here's how these dollars need to be
spent. This is the essence of Congress's Article I
authority under the General Welfare Clause and the
Appropriations Clause. This is not some remote
contingency or an effort to leverage in that regard.
This is how Congress is going to have the Federal
Government's money be used if States choose to accept
it.
Yes, it was reasonable for Congress to
predict in this circumstance that the States were going
to take this money, because -- because it is an
extremely generous offer of funds: 90-plus percent of
the funding. States can -- can expand their Medicaid
coverage to more than 20 percent of their population for
an increase of only 1 percent --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If it's such a good
deal --
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- of their funding.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- why do you care?
If it's such a good deal, why do you need the club?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, the -- the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a good deal,
take it. We're not going to -- if you don't take it,
you're just hurting yourself.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, but that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We're not going
to --
GENERAL VERRILLI: That's a judgment for
Congress to make about how the Federal -- how Federal
funds are going to be used if States choose to accept
them, and Congress has made that judgment. That's
Congress's judgment to make, and it's -- it doesn't mean
that it's coercive.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You have another
15 minutes -- at least.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Lucky me. Lucky me.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the -- but the point
is -- but the point is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can we go back --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- there's no real --
there's no realistic choice. There's no real choice.
And Congress does not in effect allow for an out -- opt
out. We just know that.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I guess I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it's substantial.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I would go back, Justice
Kennedy, to the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I recognize the problem
with that test.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I would go back to the
fact that 60 percent of the Medicaid spending is now
optional. It's -- it's a result of choices that States
have made that ­ it's expanded the ­ their own applications.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Even though they're now
frozen in, per our earlier discussion, to a large extent.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, no, to a much more
modest extent was my point, Justice Kennedy. For
example, optional services where a huge amount of money
is spent -- more than $100 billion annually -- the
largest component of that is nursing home services.
That remains optional. It's -- right now, once the
minimum -- once the maintenance-of-effort provision
remains in place, States have the flexibility to reduce
that -- those numbers.
States have considerable flexibility now and
going forward with respect to the way that money is
spent. And I do think in terms of evaluating whether
this expansion should be considered coercive, it's got
to be evaluated against the backdrop of the fact that
the States are generally -- are generally taking
advantage of the opportunities of this statute to
greatly expand the amount of money that the Federal
Government spends and the amount of money that they
spend to try to make the -- the lives of their citizens
better. I think it's very --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Of course, they have to do
so by hiring a very substantial number of more
employees. There will be State employees. There'll be
substantial State administrative expenses that are not
reimbursed.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, but -- I would take
issue with that, Justice Kennedy. Part of the
Affordable Care Act is that it -- it provides for new
streamlined eligibility processes to get people into the
system at a -- at a much faster and cheaper rate. There
are going to be costs to set that up. But under the
statute, the Federal Government is going to pay
90 percent of those costs, the short-term set-up costs.
And then all of the projections that we have
seen suggest that the medium- to long-term costs, once
these changes are in place, are going to be dramatically
lower for the States --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what --
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- on the administrative
side.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Obviously, the
Federal Government isn't bound to that. And what if,
after the 90 percent, they say, well, now -- from now
on, for the States -- we're going to pay 70 percent?
What happens then? Where does that extra money come from?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think -- then --
then the States would have a choice at that -- at that
point whether they were going to stay in the program or
not. But that isn't what we have here, and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There's no -- they
can just bail out as soon -- whenever the government
reduces the amount of the percentage --
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- that it's willing
to pay, the States can say that's -- that's --
GENERAL VERRILLI: I'm not saying it would
be an easy choice, Mr. Chief Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They'd have to bail out of
Medicaid, you're talking about --
GENERAL VERRILLI: The States would have
to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- not just -- yes.
GENERAL VERRILLI: The States would have to ­-
right. That would be --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. That that would
be the option. They can leave Medicaid if they decide
that that isn't working for them. I'm saying -- I'm not
saying this is an easy choice. I'm also not saying it
would happen, because the Secretary does have this
discretion. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the Secretary
has the discretion. We're talking about something else.
We're talking about fiscal realities and whether or not
the Federal Government is going to say we need to lower
our contribution to Medicaid and leave it up to the
States because we want the people to be mad at the
States when they have to have all these budget cuts to
keep it up, and not at the Federal Government.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But that would be true,
Mr. Chief Justice, whether this Medicaid expansion
occurred or not. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know, but you've
been emphasizing that the Federal Government is going to
pay 90 percent of this, 90 percent of this. And it's
not something you can take to the bank, because the next
day or the next fiscal year, they can decide we're going
to pay a lot less, and you, States, are still on the
hook, because you don't -- you say it's not an easy
choice. We can say -- ask whether it's coercion.
You're not going to be able to bail out of Medicaid.
You just have to pay more because we're going to pay
less.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, like I said, I -- I
agree that it would be a difficult choice in some
circumstances. But that is not to say it's coercion as
a legal matter or even as a practical matter. And I
think it would depend on what the circumstances were on
how -- and I think, trying to think about how a court
would ever answer the question of whether it was
coercive, it was too difficult as a practical matter for
States --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, I'm trying
to --
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- to withdraw.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- go back to that
because Justice Kennedy asked you whether there's -- I
think he said it's coercion if no one can be politically
accountable. I'm not sure how that could be practically
politically accountable, because almost every gift -- if
the terms are attractive, it would be an unattractive
political alternative to turn it down.
Dole itself was one of those cases. I think
every State raised the drinking age to 21; correct?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, Justice Sotomayor,
and this argument was raised in Dole, and the Court
rejected it as a --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess my point is that
political accountability has two components: What can I
do if I like something, and what can I do if I don't
like something? And if people really like something
like Medicaid, they're not going to let you drop it,
correct?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, the citizens of the
State, but that's the citizens of the State acting --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly. That's the
whole point; that's their choice, right?
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- in their capacity as
citizens of the State. And I think that's why I get --
try to get back to the point, that's why I think this is
wrong to think about this as coercion, because this is a
program that works effectively for the citizens of the
State, and States' governments -- and State governments
think that, and that's why it has expanded the way it
has expanded, because it's providing an essential
service for millions of needy citizens in these States.
It's providing access to health care that they would not
otherwise have.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You mentioned the --
the Dole case. Now, what was the threat in that case,
raise your drinking age to 21 or what?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Or lose a percentage of
your highway funds.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you remember the
percentage?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Seven percent, yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. It's a pretty
small amount. That's really apples and oranges when
you're talking about lose all of your Medicaid funds or
lose -- I thought it was 5, but 7 -- 7 percent of your
highway funds.
GENERAL VERRILLI: It's -- I think -- I
agree with Your Honor that it -- that it's different,
but I don't think that that makes coercion as a legal
matter. As I said, I think that this is a situation in
which the -- if the States -- is it -- I'm not saying it
would be an easy choice, but the States made the choice,
they've made the choice. And --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, they made a choice
with the stimulus bill, didn't they? Some governors
rejected the stimulus bill --
GENERAL VERRILLI: That's -- that's correct,
Justice Sotomayor. And --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and some of -- some
of their congressional or legislative processes
overturned that.
GENERAL VERRILLI: That's right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In others, they
supported it. The percentages were smaller, but it's
always the preference of the voters as to what they
want, isn't it?
GENERAL VERRILLI: That's -- that is
correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What was the threat
in the stimulus bill? What would the State lose?
GENERAL VERRILLI: That answer I don't know,
Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would anything be
taken away, or would it just lose the opportunity to get
the money?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't know the answer
to that. I don't know the answer to that.
But if I may just say in conclusion that --
I'd like to take half a step back here. That this
provision, the Medicaid expansion that we're talking
about this afternoon and the provisions we talked about
yesterday, we've been talking about them in terms of
their effect as measures that solve problems, problems
in the economic marketplace, that have resulted in
millions of people not having health care because they
can't afford insurance.
There is an important connection, a profound
connection, between that problem and liberty. And I do
think it's important that we not lose sight of that.
That in this population of Medicaid eligible people who
will receive health care that they cannot now afford
under this Medicaid expansion, there will be millions of
people with chronic conditions like diabetes and heart
disease, and as a result of the health care that they
will get, they will be unshackled from the disabilities
that those diseases put on them and have the opportunity
to enjoy the blessings of liberty.
And the same thing will be true for -- for a
husband whose wife is diagnosed with breast cancer and
who won't face the prospect of being forced into
bankruptcy to try to get care for his wife and face the
risk of having to raise his children alone. And I could
multiply example after example after example.
In a very fundamental way, this Medicaid
expansion, as well as the provisions we discussed
yesterday, secure of the blessings of liberty. And I
think that that is important as the Court is considering
these issues that that be kept in mind. The -- the
Congress struggled with the issue of how to deal with
this profound problem of 40 million people without
health care for many years, and it made a judgment, and
its judgment is one that is, I think, in conformity with
what lots of experts' thought, was the best complex of
options to handle this problem.
Maybe they were right; maybe they weren't.
But this is something about which the people of the
United States can deliberate and they can vote, and if
they think it needs to be changed, they can change it.
And I would suggest to the Court, with profound respect
for the Court's obligation to ensure that the Federal
Government remains a government of enumerated powers,
that this is not a case in any of its aspects that calls
that into question. That this was a judgment of policy
that democratically accountable branches of this
government made by their best lights.
And I would urge this Court to respect that
judgment and ask that the Affordable Care Act, in its
entirety, be upheld. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Clement, you have 5 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice
and may it please the Court:
Just a few points in rebuttal. First of all
we've talked a lot about the sort of hallmark of
coercion, your money or your life, with somebody with a
gun. I would respectfully suggest that it is equally
coercive and certainly not uncoercive if I say your
money or your life -- and by the way, I have discretion
as to whether or not I will shoot the gun. I don't
think that eliminates the coercion.
I also don't think this is a discretion that
the Secretary would ever be able to exercise. And the
reason is we disagree on the details, but the Solicitor
General and I agree that, over the years, Congress has
had different approaches to expanding Medicare.
Sometimes, as in 1972, it makes the
expansion voluntary. That's also, by the way, what
happened with the stimulus funds, which were voluntary
funds. You didn't lose all your Medicaid funds, which
is why 17 States could say no.
Sometimes, they take the voluntary approach.
Sometimes, as in 1984, they take the mandatory approach.
If the Secretary exercised the discretion to say, you
know what, it really isn't reasonable for you to have to
give up your funding for the visually impaired and the
disabled, just to cover these newly eligible people, so
we will make it voluntary; we'll make that
discretionary -- that would essentially be creating --
converting a 1984 amendment approach to a 1972 amendment
approach, and I just don't think that is the kind of
discretion that the Secretary has, with all due respect.
Now, moving on to the next point,
Justice Alito, your hypothetical, I think, aptly
captures the effect on this, based on the fact that
these tax dollars are being taken from the State's tax
base, and it's not like Steward Machine, where the
Federal Government would say, and oh, by the way, if you
don't take the option we're giving you, we're going to
have a Federal substitute that will go in, and we'll
take care of the unemployed in your State.
Here, if you don't take this offer that
we're giving you, your tax dollars will fund the other
49 States, and you'll get nothing.
But, of course, this situation is much more
coercive, even than your hypothetical, because it is
tied directly to the mandate. It's also tied to
the participation in the pre-existing program. So, it's
as if there was yet another program for post-secondary
education; they gave them exactly your option --
option -- and then they also said, oh, and by the way,
you not only not get these funds, but you lose the
post-secondary funds as well.
It's really hard to understand tying the
pre-existing participation in the program as anything
other than coercive.
The Solicitor General makes a lot of the
fact that there are optional benefits under this
program. Well, guess what? After the Medicaid
expansion, there will be a lot less opportunity for the
States to exercise those options, because one of the
things that the expansion does -- precisely because the
expansion is designed to convert Medicaid into a program
that satisfies the requirement of the minimum essential
coverage of the individual mandate, things that used to
be voluntary will no longer be voluntary.
The perfect example is prescription
coverage. That's a big part of the benefits that some
States, but not all, provide voluntarily now. It will
no longer be voluntary after the expansion because the
Federal Government has deemed prescription drugs to be
part of the minimal essential health coverage that
everybody in this country must have under the mandate.
So, that option that the State has is being removed by
the expansion itself.
The Chief Justice made the point --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Clement, may I ask
one question about your bottom line in this case? It
sounds to me like everything you said would be to the
effect of, if Congress continued to do things on a
voluntary basis, so with adding these new eligibles,
and say, States, you can have it or not, you can
preserve the program as it existed before, you can opt
into this.
But you're not asking the Court as relief to
say, well, that's how we -- that's how we cure the
constitutional infirmity; we say this has to be on a
voluntary basis. Instead, you are arguing that this
whole Medicaid -- the addition, that the whole expansion
has to be nullified and, moreover, the entire Health
Care Act. Instead of having the easy repair, you say
that if we accept your position, everything falls.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, if we
can start with the common ground that there's a need for
a repair because there is a coercion doctrine and this
statute is coercion, then we're into the question of
remedy. And we do think -- we do take the position that
you describe in the remedy, but we would be certainly
happy if we got something here, and we got a recognition
that the coercion doctrine exists; this is coercive; and
we get the remedy that you suggest in the alternative.
Let me just finish by saying that I
certainly appreciate what the Solicitor General says,
that when you support a policy, you think that the
policy spreads the blessings of liberty. But I would
respectfully suggest that it's a very funny conception
of liberty that forces somebody to purchase an insurance
policy whether they want it or not.
And it's a very strange conception of
federalism that says that we can simply give the States
an offer that they can't refuse, and through the
spending power, which is premised on the notion that
Congress can do more -- because it's voluntary, we can
force the States to do whatever we tell them to. That
is a direct threat to our federalism.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Clement. And thank you, General Verrilli, Mr.
Kneedler, Mr. Carvin, Mr. Katsas, and in particular, of
course, Mr. Long and Mr. Farr.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 2:24 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
63:25 adding 87:8 allowed 23:13 appropriate 20:5 43:1
84:15 additional 10:14 alternative 70:16,20 Appropriations authority 13:14
addressed 43:20 amendment 23:12 26:20 59:21 61:19 62:2
66:18 administered 39:14 amendments 25:15 arbitrary 18:6 62:23 automatically 31:11
40:3,21 41:4 66:8 amici 7:15 61:16 67:13,14
36:21 35:1 36:24 37:6 argument 1:13 2:2,5 back 21:25 36:8
62:23
75:15 47:16 74:19 75:8,9 2:8 3:4,7,17,22,23 37:12,15,21 45:12
76:18 80:14 4:15 18:9 29:20 51:21 53:8 58:11
43:4 45:9
64:2 69:24
73:15 87:19
58:7 68:21 69:3 59:24 balance 29:15
41:13 66:6
60:2 71:18 answering 37:4 arises 47:9 bankrupt 7:23
68:2,16 79:10
83:23 anybody 53:16 arising 49:4 bankruptcy 82:22
79:1 83:20
anytime 23:3 50:24 52:4 57:10 bargaining 47:23
46:24
59:7 60:2
64:19
45:18,21 applications 74:14 87:12 65:23
67:13 70:6
67:24 78:11 applies 23:7 53:14 aspect 38:2 basis 87:8,15
75:19 83:23
84:17 70:10 aspects 83:18 beachhead 31:23
49:2 59:5 approach 84:24,25 51:9 69:9 70:2 37:23 41:20 84:3
86:10,20 58:14 62:13 63:5,9 Carvin 88:21 67:20 73:1,4,7,11 79:23 80:2
12:5,6 26:12 31:22 37:4 45:25 77:24 80:5,10,13 clarification 3:16
54:17 75:11 bring 39:3 48:23 49:21 51:5,9 84:4 87:3 88:19 class 47:24
55:23 56:8 brother 63:1 63:12 65:5,9,13 children 25:6,7 50:8 45:16 72:13,14
70:3 budget 7:17 9:2 71:23 80:6,6 83:18 54:19 82:23 clear 66:7 67:3 68:2
25:8,8 26:14 77:19 cases 17:25 18:3 CHIP 17:13,16 3:6,7,9,15,20 4:8
54:25 59:13 budgetary 53:25 23:24 36:9,13 choice 6:1 19:21,22 4:13,19 5:7,8,18
86:20 building 39:15 42:11 79:4 20:1 21:22 32:19 5:21 6:2,5,6,8,17
burden 36:24 47:13 causally 15:1 34:18 41:7 43:4,13 10:9 11:14,21,23
62:19 74:20 business 65:21 24:7 31:10 40:14 68:18 74:2,2 76:13 13:11,14 14:15
certainly 37:2 67:19 78:11 79:18 80:23 16:24 17:3,21
calculation 66:20 certainty 18:16 52:24,25 74:13 22:3,9,14 23:5
53:11 chamber 56:12 choosing 29:23 30:19 32:5 33:1,10
12:3,5,7 59:7,8,14 60:2,14 32:5,7 34:2,15 cite 12:18 13:5 clients 15:3
60:16 61:5,15 35:12,23 41:16,21 15:16 57:10 climate 66:25
13:2,5,10,12 71:12,18,19,19 43:19,22 44:3,5,14 citizen 6:10,12 39:2 close 7:17
14:15,20 73:4 75:19 80:3 44:19,24 45:7 46:1 39:12 41:2,6 66:7 club 73:5
16:10 82:6,12,15,22 83:7 46:2 50:19 51:11 68:2 code 28:14
33:18 58:2 Congress 5:4 8:18 contingency 72:15 cover 10:13 11:9,18
19:14,21 59:22 11:6,17 18:22 19:4 19:6 coverage 9:24 19:25
24:9 common 58:8 61:4 19:5,11 20:9,13 continued 87:7 28:20 70:7 72:24
32:20 33:16 87:21 21:17 23:8,10,13 continues 6:23 86:17,20,24
40:24 companies 70:17 23:18 24:8,17,19 continuing 35:8 covered 11:5 29:7
43:20 44:6 comparable 26:25 28:2,11,18,19,23 contribution 77:17 covering 10:12
45:10 27:4 31:15 32:2 36:5,9 control 53:20 covers 11:19
54:7 55:5,8 complain 39:13 41:2 38:8 46:23 47:11 conversations 58:14 Coyle-type 42:25
41:6,8 65:23 69:5,8,16,18 convert 86:15 create 22:21
68:7,19 complaining 25:11 70:2 71:15 72:9,16 converting 85:7 created 10:18,24
70:1,8 complains 41:3 72:19 73:14,16 cooperation 31:6 creating 85:6
78:6,12,24 complaint 20:14 74:3 83:5 84:17 cooperative 29:23 credits 70:17
80:20 84:8 39:4 87:7 88:15 39:19 40:4,7,22 criminal 28:14
87:22,23 complete 61:18 congressional 81:6 correct 52:1 53:4 crisis 53:25
completely 47:14 Congress's 11:8 60:21 79:5,14 81:3 critical 35:11 38:1
7:12,14,20 complexity 15:25 conjured 17:19 correlation 22:9 cure 87:13
9:4,9,12 complies 42:2 connection 44:21 cost 3:18,19 71:7 current 19:12 28:2
19:7 20:12 comply 13:18 55:18 82:8,9 costs 36:22 53:20 54:16
25:17 26:7 component 74:21 conscious 9:20 69:20,20 75:22,24 curriculum 47:24
32:12 components 79:10 consequence 28:23 75:24 76:1 cut 13:14 14:2,14,19
38:3,10 41:5 compromised 35:15 35:13 36:1,2,7 counsel 7:13 37:12 14:25 52:6 55:21
45:1 46:15 conceivable 69:4,6 38:13 60:8 count 36:25 66:2 55:24 56:14 59:17
60:1 62:11 conceive 69:13 consider 47:6 country 24:1 39:9 59:18 61:11,15
68:18 73:18 conception 58:20 considerable 75:1 52:22 86:25 63:25 64:11
78:17 84:10 88:8,11 considered 37:7 couple 30:20 65:18 cutoff 12:9,15 15:6
86:8 88:2 concern 14:21 21:16 46:9 47:6 75:4 course 4:22 5:14 55:15
51:6 Constitution 41:15 52:10 57:24 61:20 D
24:13 35:9 38:10 43:1,17 constitutionality 10:19 15:3 17:6,9 deal 21:19,21 22:1
69:2 72:5 62:16 constitutionality's 24:1 41:22 42:5,17 73:2,5,7 83:5
conditions 4:4,17,21 28:16 46:7 78:15 79:7 debate 50:1
72:3 20:19 28:5 31:3,8 63:20 87:12 decide 31:3 49:18
82:14 contend 42:4 Court's 8:16 18:13 decided 61:25
10:10 11:4 20:11 43:17,18 44:10 eliminates 84:13 82:24,24,24 86:19
42:3 46:20 61:15 62:10,11,13 dollar 26:14 44:1 employer 5:10 70:16
differently 29:10 85:13,20 enjoy 82:18 exercise 42:1,6 56:1
22:2 29:14 30:23 equation 37:1 exit 54:25
disagree 49:2 70:1 E 2:1 3:1,1 especially 48:15 31:4 53:1,2 55:13
61:9 easy 31:20,22 32:20 essential 41:25 80:1 expanded 50:7
78:14 18:3,6 51:19 55:17 77:10 78:5 80:23 essentially 8:12 80:1
35:16,24 64:8,11 65:6,12 economic 82:5 establish 31:23 expansion 3:12,13
77:12,14 84:11,14 education 47:13,15 et 1:3,7 18:7 63:6 21:4,7,18 25:20,24
discussion 17:4 59:6 85:12 87:7 everybody 11:5 77:22 82:1,13 83:1
36:19 37:7 doing 38:7,9,9,20 11:10 12:10 29:3 34:12 42:24 43:18 experts 83:9
60:13 29:11 82:11 85:4 50:24 54:14,15 explain 60:4
51:7 74:16 45:11,12,16 47:15 focus 29:2 80:9,15,17 84:21 59:3 75:6,6
48:5,7 49:5,23 focusing 9:10 84:22,22 86:4,5 generous 53:7 72:22
66:22 67:12,13,14 88:16 getting 44:22,22
68:3,23 forced 82:21 G 51:21
35:7 45:9 83:16 85:15,17 Forget 34:13 GDP 26:21,23,24 Ginsburg 10:3,9
51:24 55:1 86:23 forth 42:3 58:12 27:6 20:23 21:2,3,15
75:5 85:12 federalism 18:13 forward 11:3 27:24 geez 54:23 22:13 23:5,22 24:4
35:25 38:17,18 40:2 50:15 75:2 general 1:18 14:11 24:12 87:4,20
figure 21:25 22:4 frivolity 34:16 53:10 54:18 55:6,9 40:18 42:14,14
6:9,13,14,14 first 3:13 4:22 20:8 20:11,12 68:12,24 69:11,15 giving 4:2 9:3 37:18
7:2,6,22,24 31:6 32:8 36:18 funding 7:16 12:9,15 69:25 71:13,22,25 40:17 62:2 85:16
18:21 24:1 42:15 49:2 54:7 14:3 16:22 18:18 72:8,13 73:3,6,10 85:20
29:22,24 59:24 70:14 84:6 23:21 44:1 55:17 73:13,21 74:5,7,11 glad 21:5
35:14 fiscal 77:15 78:3 55:18 62:19 66:2 74:17 75:17 76:5 go 14:4,6,7 21:25
36:8,11 15:19 16:13 18:22 H home 33:25 54:17 72:25
49:19 20:4 22:15,18 hacked 39:3 74:21 increases 69:20
53:8 55:8 29:22,25 30:3,9,25 half 81:25 Honor 16:25 34:23 independent 35:16
60:25 65:17 35:17,18,20 36:19 hallmark 84:7 67:17,22 80:19 67:7
73:25 74:7,11 38:14,15 39:1,7 hallmarks 9:11 Honor's 70:5 indicated 67:21
85:17 40:15 42:12 43:3 33:15 hook 78:5 individual 9:14
14:8 18:23 50:15 51:7 54:14 happen 61:6,21 Human 1:7 3:5 6:18 9:24 10:12,14
19:3,13,14 54:20 58:12 61:3 62:20,21 77:11 51:14 63:10 65:2 10:25 11:2,7,10,18
22:1,17 24:5 61:13,21 62:3,15 happened 30:21 hurting 73:9 11:19 12:10 29:11
27:24 28:4,6 62:16 66:8 67:12 48:20 84:21 husband 82:20 inducement 48:11
67:14,19,22 68:3 happens 58:8 76:11 hypothetical 5:7 inevitable 38:12
31:1,3,7,13 69:19 75:9,23 76:8 happy 88:1 17:5 37:5 42:14 infants 50:5 54:18
33:7,25 76:17 77:16,20,25 hard 11:8 27:4 36:4 63:9 85:11,23 infer 70:8
35:20 83:17,17,21 85:15 46:11 66:20 86:6 infirmity 87:14
38:6 39:8 86:23 I infringement 57:23
47:5,13,15,17 governments 79:24 idea 4:21 14:12 inherent 67:25
48:3,3,4 79:24 17:12 28:18 38:5 initially 28:7
49:5,19 50:15 government's 6:14 39:8,19,20 65:18 inquiry 44:9
51:14 59:7
54:9 7:2 9:2 26:11 67:25 68:1 insist 31:15
60:14,16
57:8,21 35:14 72:17 identified 65:22 insofar 55:17
63:10 65:2
governors 22:6,7 identity 68:22 instance 56:8
80:3 82:6
60:9,11 81:1 imagine 23:13,14 instances 61:6
83:7
62:7 66:11 grant 46:3 47:18 46:14 instructed 32:2
87:17
70:23 71:6 65:12 impaired 20:16,22 instrumentalities
72:5,10,16 Gray 10:19 22:1 29:13 30:23 39:2 41:11
73:8,11,15 great 6:1 12:23 38:8 85:3 insurance 38:16
76:2,10 21:19 39:22 47:12 impermissibly 42:6 70:17,22 71:7 82:7
77:16,25 47:20 implement 61:16 88:9
79:13 greater 6:19 implementing 16:20 integrity 68:22
greatest 29:19 implicit 15:5 67:25 interested 61:8
24:2 59:2 group 70:24 49:20 52:20 60:11 interpreting 18:7
guarantee 14:18 65:19 82:8,10 83:3 intrusion 61:22
guaranteed 25:16 imposed 70:24 isolation 56:12
62:21 28:17 29:19 51:2 income 6:19 71:2,4 44:3 47:5 65:25
4:1 5:4 6:10 79:9 86:11 inconceivable 71:16 issues 83:4
7:6,22 gun 56:23 84:9,12 incorrect 53:9 70:13 It'll 26:23
51:24
8:5,7 14:9,24 increase 6:23 10:4 it's 74:14 75:4
49:2,11,17 54:23 55:17 77:20 47:2 64:5 65:16 42:3
83:7,8 58:17,19 59:4,5 kept 83:4 55:12 77:8,17 litigation 14:17
60:5,22,23,25 61:2 kids 50:9 left 48:23 15:18 17:11
18:13 63:9,13,16,23 85:8 legislate 28:18,19 31:15 40:5 42:16
4:8,12 65:4,11,13,14,15 49:6 32:1 63:6
5:6,9,23 6:5,8 66:4,12 67:1,5,6 Kneedler 88:21 legislative 81:6 live 61:25
8:2,3,9 67:10,16,20,24 Knew 33:4 legislature 43:12 lives 75:10
9:6 10:3,9 68:7,10,20 69:1,12 know 5:13,18 6:21letter 17:10,11 loath 60:15
69:18,22 70:1 71:9 14:12 15:15,25 50:24 52:4 locate 43:10
71:15,23 72:1 73:1 16:14 17:5 18:15
13:2,5 73:4,7,11,19,23 19:17 20:8 23:23 34:2 35:24 46:4 logic 30:15
14:15 73:25 74:1,6,7,9 24:7 25:1,15 26:9 47:11 long 22:17 41:1 43:5
15:9,10,14 74:15,18 75:12,18 28:13 32:16,17,19
16:9,10,12 76:4,7,16,20,23 34:7,25 35:3,3,4 31:10 41:9 53:5 longer 86:18,22
17:1 76:24 77:3,6,13,22 35:24 36:4 38:22 68:16 70:25 long-term 76:1
18:1 77:24 78:19,22,23 44:14 45:7,8 46:2
19:9,16 79:6,9,17 80:5,10 46:3,3,17,22 47:12
20:6,23 21:2 80:13,25 81:4,5,9 56:3,5,22 57:25 57:11 72:15 30:25 31:13 32:12
22:3,10,11 81:15,18,19 83:25 58:2,5 59:16 65:5
23:5,22 24:4 84:4 85:11 87:3,4 65:8 67:8 74:4 leveraging 5:4 looked 56:4,11
25:4,13,25 87:20 88:19 77:24 81:17,22,23
Justice's 60:7 85:2 88:7,9 41:13 43:25 45:21
28:1,17,21 justified 15:1 knows 18:1 39:7 life 32:17,19,23 33:8 52:19 54:10 55:10
30:7,19 65:13 68:3 33:21,21 34:7 61:19 66:16,22
33:3,4,5 K 56:24 60:8 84:8,11 80:8,15,16 81:16
34:2 Kagan 3:15,20,23 L light 11:6 81:20 82:10 84:22
4:8,12,15 5:6,9,23 labs 22:20,24 lightly 39:8 86:4
36:15,17 6:5,8 17:21 25:25 laid 32:3 lights 83:21 loses 37:14
37:3,4,12,20 26:4,13,18 28:1,17 large 74:16 limit 7:1 8:13,14 losing 17:17 32:13
39:16,18 28:21 36:18 39:16 largely 45:23 13:22 28:11 42:25 loss 66:1
41:16,21 39:18 40:4,7,10 largest 74:21 45:10 lost 66:7
43:5 51:23 52:2 59:4 lasts 53:12 limitation 45:22 lot 32:23 65:4 72:4
44:3 60:5,22 64:16,21 Laughter 5:20 15:12 46:5 63:25 78:4 84:7 86:9,12
45:7 Kagan's 37:4 55:14 18:11 22:12 27:17 limited 13:20 18:5 lots 83:9
62:14 66:17 73:17 misconception 60:3 needles 27:16 61:9 71:17
means 33:18 40:13 5:19,21 6:14 7:11 23:25 52:2,5 57:7 61:8 71:15 76:7
Medicaid 3:12 7:16 15:23 16:1,2,3,3,7 6:12,15,16,17 9:22 47:20 69:6 71:17
37:16 48:17 26:1 27:9 28:19,20 32:17,20 33:8,20 19:2,8,12 20:10,18 32:13 34:19 49:23
28:23 30:21,24 34:20 35:1,2,14 20:19 28:5 31:8 72:10
85:24 86:17 52:22 53:6,7,13 40:15 44:22 45:12 75:19 87:8 official 22:18 39:4
54:12 58:22,25 45:12,21 47:16 newly 4:23 9:24 39:13,14 41:2,7
40:5 41:12 74:12 76:25 77:8 56:23 60:7,15 72:4 85:4 okay 12:7,12 13:10
77:17,22 78:7 72:5,7,17,21 74:19 news 47:12 24:14 29:8 31:15
67:23 84:18 motion 17:7 notify 13:17 19:6 25:6 32:16
6:7 8:3,4,11 meet 36:25 moving 85:10 notwithstanding once 24:18 30:1,17
24:9,20 32:14 mentioned 80:5 multiply 82:24 27:23 45:10,11 65:21
54:11 57:22 million 5:12,14,24 nuanced 53:10 74:22,23 76:1
78:13,13,17 83:6 N nullified 87:17 one-word 38:25
88:25 millions 41:24 80:2 N 2:1,1 3:1 number 17:2 21:11 operate 49:9
16:18 17:5 mine 34:7 near-universal numbers 26:25 27:3 opportunities 15:19
20:7 24:15 minimal 86:24 71:18 27:7 74:25 75:7
26:1 28:18 minimum 53:1,2 necessarily 25:14 nursing 54:17 74:21 opportunity 15:21
32:15,21 70:7 74:23 86:16 26:3 41:25 49:24 81:20
34:24,25 minor 57:22 necessary 68:1 O 82:17 86:12
40:10 41:1 minute 17:24 60:3 need 49:7 72:11 O 2:1 3:1 opposed 28:24
PAUL 1:16 2:3,9 3:7 2:4,10 3:8 84:3 72:24 82:11 present 53:5
86:2,3 87:1 37:14 48:4 72:5 picking 3:18 poses 40:6 87:10
74:13,19 78:1,4,8,8 pieces 28:24 48:19 50:25 87:19 pretty 27:3 35:24
86:10 paying 9:2 69:19 pile 16:5 87:24 49:3 80:13
pays 6:9,11 37:13 53:13,14 55:2 possible 22:8 42:18 29:11 48:8
25:9 29:4,6 56:13 please 3:10 41:22 86:1,5 31:9 65:20
85:4 12:9 15:19 16:10 power 7:2 8:16,17 priorities 54:21
4:11,11,23 6:19 73:23,24 74:18 51:9 60:18,20 29:25 30:8 45:15
17:14 20:8 50:8,9 52:21 58:24 points 30:20 65:19 practical 49:1,3 62:8 Procedure 14:10
64:10 70:4,18 61:11 69:20,21,23 84:6 78:13,17 63:19,24
86:20,24 70:15,19,19,21 police 36:3,8 practically 78:25 processes 75:20
40:25 41:5 74:12 75:24 76:9 88:6,7,10 precisely 8:20 25:10 profound 82:8 83:6
10:16 13:15 percentage 7:14,16 67:3 68:16 79:3,10 72:20 5:8 9:25 10:7,8,11
21:24 27:22 7:21 26:21 27:5,5 politically 30:8 predicted 69:16,18 10:17,24 11:3,5,8
35:8 85:25 76:18 80:8,11 78:24 79:1 prediction 63:16 13:15 16:2,23
percentages 81:10 pony 26:5 69:17,25 17:13,14,16 19:11
51:13 88:21 perfectly 40:23 36:20 60:14,16 preference 81:11 22:21,25 24:2
70:6 permissible 50:23 poorest 71:10,20 premise 24:18 27:5,23 28:2,4,12
40:12,14 Q 60:18 79:12 80:14 relate 68:7 respect 35:22 46:12
43:24 44:1 question 3:24 4:21 85:2 86:6 related 3:13 15:1 49:16 50:1,4,18
50:5,7,7,13 9:18 18:9,21 20:7 reason 8:15 15:8,13 44:9,11 56:9 52:15 53:15,21
52:24 59:2 20:8,24 23:11,16 15:14 51:20 55:14 relates 68:12 54:6 63:11,21
65:24 66:8 24:6,17,23,25 56:1 58:22,23 relationship 29:23 66:16,18 70:5,9,14
68:4,17 69:7 28:16 37:4 38:4 69:18 84:16 55:18 60:1 70:5 70:18 75:2 83:15
71:11 76:14 40:1 43:20 44:6 reasonable 14:11 relative 66:18 83:22 85:9
85:25 86:1,7 46:1,22 50:20 54:9 15:6 16:7 56:4 relatively 17:14 respectfully 25:3
87:10 55:14 58:1,7 60:7 65:8 72:19 85:2 67:2 84:9 88:8
18:18 22:16 71:6 72:3 78:16 16:11 relevant 23:8 Respondents 1:20
39:20,21 83:19 87:5,23 reasonably 14:24 relief 21:6 87:12 2:7 41:20
questionable 20:17 16:13,20 65:13 relieve 14:21 15:7 response 60:6
50:1 R receive 32:13 82:12 remains 74:22,24 restrictions 28:19
71:18,19 rate 7:8 11:4 75:21 recommend 40:6 remotely 28:24 revenues 49:6 66:21
rates 53:20 reconsider 36:9 remove 18:17 right 5:17 6:17
53:19 80:1,3 reading 13:25 reduces 3:24 76:18 represent 20:25 20:3,4,21 21:1,16
54:1 55:3 real 6:21,25 43:17 refers 4:25 Republican 22:6 32:20,21 36:24
70:7,9 74:23 43:18 49:8 51:21 refusal 15:2 55:22 require 53:5 67:2,20 43:21,23 46:19
63:20 74:1,2 refuse 14:2 33:20 required 53:23 48:22 50:14 56:2
82:2 83:1 59:15 74:2 88:13 70:11 71:2 86:16 71:12 74:22 77:5,7
56:21 57:2,6 32:10 33:3,5,17 sentence 55:24 sits 60:19 47:17 75:10
60:23 34:6,11 42:8,10,17 separate 6:20,21 situation 42:19,25 spending 8:16,17,18
61:7 73:1,4 42:21 43:5,8,13 10:24 24:17 29:9 43:3 49:4,17 51:13 8:23 23:9,19 24:7
76:4,7 46:14,21,25 49:11 68:8,10 52:14 56:15,16 25:22 28:12,14
77:6,13 49:17 52:9 55:4,7 separately 11:2 63:8 66:15,19 36:5,12 42:2,13
80:5,10,13 58:17,19 61:2 12:11 27:24 67:18 80:21 85:22 45:16 48:7 54:21
83:25 63:13,16,23 64:10 separation 11:6 situations 32:25 54:24 74:12 88:14
65:4,11,15 69:1,12 serious 45:15 49:3 43:9 58:11 spends 75:9
48:1 scrap 19:12 20:9,13 services 1:7 3:5 sizeable 21:11 spreads 88:7
15:17 24:5 74:21 53:3 80:14 52:19 54:10,10
8:10,12,22 17:15 18:4,16,17 35:1 54:7 59:25 soon 76:17 State 7:20,23 8:4,6
20:13,18 50:21 51:14,24 65:18 sorry 9:18 11:13 8:25 9:6 13:17,19
25:16 55:20 56:19 57:7 shoot 60:9 84:12 55:10 60:6,24,25 13:20,23 14:1,4,13
30:16 36:2 58:2 59:16 60:11 short 43:14 sort 19:1 30:20 84:7 21:18 22:2,2 36:24
41:10 60:13,13,15,18,19 short-term 75:24 Sotomayor 7:1,4,9 37:13,14 38:21
45:22 46:16 60:20 61:17,18 shot 56:25 7:13 8:2,3,9,24 9:6 39:11,13,14,14
57:13 62:25 63:10 64:8 shoulders 47:14 18:20 19:9,16,20 40:25 41:2,3,7,11
63:11 64:19 65:2 77:11 show 14:25 16:6,11 20:6 29:19 30:7,19 43:2,3,14 45:18
76:22 77:9 77:13 84:15 85:1,9 shows 50:16 33:24 36:15,17 52:10 53:24 56:9
80:22 Secretary's 18:2 side 32:12,14 49:22 37:3,12,20 73:25 60:19 61:23 62:15
55:17 63:25 65:6 54:3 68:14 76:6 78:19,22 79:6,9,17 66:7,9,19,21,21
12:25 13:12 13:6 23:12 sign 21:19 sound 4:6 68:16,21 69:5,7,10
16:21 22:19 secure 83:2 significant 9:15 54:2 sounds 69:14,24 69:13,20 71:17
25:2 28:3 see 5:10 30:5 36:18 61:22 62:2 66:2 87:6 75:14,15 79:5,16
47:11 53:15 44:18 54:8 62:18 simple 8:15 38:11 sovereign 61:23 79:16,20,24,24
61:13 66:5 simply 4:20 6:7 7:10 sovereigns 6:20 81:16 85:18 87:1
63:1 64:12 seeking 21:6 18:23 24:20 31:18 35:16 statehouse 43:10
seen 7:15 32:1 76:1 36:12 51:8 69:4 special 23:19 47:15 States 1:1,13 5:2
18:1 22:3,10 27:24 single 20:14 69:9 spend 4:5 20:4 7:16 10:13,18,22
27:15 32:5 sense 67:12 sit 59:19 30:13 36:9 39:1 15:21 16:2,7 18:14
20:15,25 stimulus 81:1,2,16 surprise 46:22 7:6 25:13 28:3,9,10,12
84:21 surprised 35:18,20 taxpayer 6:9,11 28:14,15,21 29:1
24:10,21 stop 38:9 suspect 57:10 taxpayers 35:5 72:6 30:20 31:9,11
28:5 29:7,24 store 40:18 system 15:20 18:23 teacher 47:23 32:15,16 34:24
stores 40:19 19:1,6,8,12 49:18 tell 4:7 6:13,15 35:10,23,25 36:2
35:24 36:20 strain 49:12 54:16 68:23 75:21 12:24 14:21 19:13 37:6 38:4 42:8,13
39:21,22 strange 88:11 25:15 26:19 31:19 42:17,23,24 43:7
42:4,4 43:24 streamlined 75:20 T 36:15 41:6 56:10 43:22 44:2,8,8,8,9
48:15,16 strike 16:15,22 T 2:1,1 88:16 44:11 45:2,3,4,25
50:2,6,16 strings 34:25 35:19 take 4:5 10:8 11:17 telling 21:20 31:12 46:7,10,21,25 47:3
53:5,6 struck 24:2 15:2,22 16:2,3,7 31:21 47:4,4,20 48:12
54:14 structure 29:23 30:2 19:2,23 20:18,19 temporary 54:5 49:20 50:12 51:20
55:21 58:12 43:2 21:22 22:3 23:15 tenure 47:23 51:21,21 52:20
61:3,8,11 struggled 83:5 24:12,12,18,22 terms 54:3,4 75:3 54:2,6 55:10 56:16
67:13,20 subject 20:19 40:14 29:3,11,12 30:18 79:2 82:3 56:18 58:13,18,19
72:6,10 68:15 31:7,13 34:7,21 terrible 21:16 59:23 60:2,9,10
73:15 submitted 88:23,25 35:14 36:20 38:5 test 66:4 67:7,7,9 62:1 63:9,18 64:12
75:1,6 subsidies 37:15 39:8 40:3 43:24,25 74:10 65:8,18 66:10,11
77:1 70:17 45:5,12 47:14,21 Texas 37:23 38:19 66:12 67:9 68:6,9
78:4,18 subsidize 8:5,6 47:21,25 48:1 51:2 textbooks 47:24 68:12,14,19,20
80:2,22,23 substantial 54:12 52:11 53:16 55:2 thank 12:7,23 41:16 69:8,11,15,15,18
84:23 85:21 74:6 75:13,15 57:8,22 60:3,15 83:24,25 84:4 70:3 72:4 75:3,11
87:9 substitute 85:17 62:3,19 71:10 88:18,19,20 76:12 78:14,15,15
subsumed 67:6 72:21 73:8,8 75:17 that's 8:23 78:24 79:4,20,21
41:3 85:13 suggest 30:22 37:3 84:25 85:16,18,19 32:11 55:3 80:21 82:10 83:3,8
13:3 suggested 49:22 34:21 81:20 85:13 21:14 22:14 24:5 thinking 32:18,18
16:20,21 18:2 54:3 61:20 67:18 takes 53:13 32:16 35:10,25 47:1 50:23 65:19
21:18 25:10 67:22 70:8 talk 9:9 38:1 40:5 45:4 thinks 20:5 21:19
26:7 27:14 suggesting 7:4,10 talked 10:19 82:2 50:9,10,11 52:20 third 27:16 28:1,2
28:13 31:17 61:14 84:7 56:9 58:8 62:20 thought 9:17 26:18
33:8 38:2 summary 17:7 talking 9:9 13:7 27:1 69:10 82:19 33:7 38:22 49:11
55:15 62:24 support 88:6 34:6 43:9 76:25 things 8:18 13:11 55:25 56:11 62:14
70:16,20 supported 81:10 77:14,15 80:15 22:16,20 24:17 62:20,21 71:16
87:23 supporting 22:6 82:1,3 27:13 36:10 37:6 80:16 83:9
28:2 59:9 66:4 tax 6:18,24 7:2,8 56:10 60:17 86:14 81:15 88:17
69:16 76:14 sure 5:8 6:2 18:13 49:6 66:21,23,23 think 9:11,16 14:5,7 threatened 32:13
surely 64:18 taxes 6:9,11,21,23 23:13 24:6,19,23 27:13,21 31:24
54:7 two 3:12 6:20,20 urge 83:22 virtue 60:1 20:14 22:23 23:17
35:19 85:24 tying 86:6 51:24,25 60:18,20 38:8 85:3 51:15 54:24 56:20
uses 18:2 40:12 voluntarily 31:2 60:20 61:1 62:18
31:2 49:6 unattractive 79:2 usually 58:11 voluntariness 40:24 75:2 79:25 82:25
53:13 70:3 unchanged 55:16 U.S.C 13:6 28:12 45:13 84:11,20 85:15
26:2 27:10 28:8 V 41:1 58:25 84:20 Wednesday 1:10
understood 50:17 46:18,23 47:3,9 W 26:4 27:1,13 28:4
uninsured 30:7 57:1,5,12,15,20 wallet 57:3 47:13,22 54:20,22
United 1:1,13 6:11 62:5 63:4,8,15,18 14:13 15:22 17:24 73:8,11 76:10
31:14 universities 22:15 66:10,14 67:4,8,17 23:1 26:9,9,14 87:23
67:19 70:22 unlimited 36:5 69:15,25 71:13,22 34:17 36:20 37:11 17:18 25:2 42:11
77:21 82:19 unpalatable 68:17 71:25 72:8 73:3,6 37:20 51:1 53:19 47:11 58:22 82:3
75:10 79:21 unreasonable 14:8 74:11,17 75:17 61:14 70:4,12 wife 34:3 82:20,22
16:16,23 64:2 76:5,12,19,22 77:1 77:18 81:12 88:10 wife's 32:23 33:21
61:2,2 64:7 unrelated 55:24 79:6,15,19 80:8,12 58:6 63:23 64:2,14,17
65:1 56:14 58:8 80:18 81:3,8,13,17 wants 18:5 21:17 76:20
unshackled 82:16 81:22 88:20 38:9 68:21 willingness 9:21
78:21 8 71:7
49:7,13,15 31:14 209(b) 10:18
54:9 61:6 $42 62:19 21 69:20 79:5 80:7
$7.8 17:17 23A 10:1 12:4,7
28 1:10
25:6 27:2,2
79:23 1 17:24 72:25 30 9:1
10 7:18,20 9:1 26:11
46:21 59:21 6:19 8:7 36:21 42 13:6 50:14
64:3 65:4 40:13 50:9 69:23 45 20:21 35:9 38:7
63:2 70:2 1304 50:14
133 50:8 70:19 5
13:6 5 23:12 80:16 84:1
73:20
84:23
25:6 26:11 27:3
52:21 58:24
78:3 1965 13:3 55:16
25:12
28:12
26:17 28:25 50:2 84:19 85:7
35:9 38:7 1980 25:5 7
10:21 25:15,20
