IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
FLORIDA, :
Petitioner : No. 11-564
v. :
JOELIS JARDINES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, October 31, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Petitioner.
HOWARD K. BLUMBERG, ESQ., Assistant Public Defender,
Miami, Florida; on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae, 20
supporting the Petitioner
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
HOWARD K. BLUMBERG, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 31
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 63
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 11-564, Florida v. Jardines.
Mr. Garre.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
In the three prior cases in which this Court
has held that a dog sniff is not a search, this Court
has emphasized that a dog sniff is unique, both in terms
of the manner in which information is obtained and the
nature of the information revealed.
As to the latter point, this Court has
emphasized that a drug detection dog reveals only the
presence of contraband, and that no one has a legitimate
expectation of privacy in that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, that just can't be
a proposition that we can accept across the board.
Nobody under that view has an interest in contraband in
their home. The question is, can you find out the
contraband? It's just a circular argument.
And if -- and in the -- was it the Caballes
case that talked about that, if I have the right name?
That was where the contraband was visible; it was almost
like the smoking gun falls out. Well, of course,
there's no interest in the smoking gun when it falls out
in front of you. So I just don't think that works.
MR. GARRE: Well, Justice Kennedy, in the
Caballes case, the contraband wasn't visible before the
dog alerted.
In the home case, we're not saying that you
don't have a legitimate expectation of privacy in the
home. Of course, you do. The question is whether you
have a legitimate expectation --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So doesn't that mean
that what's in your home that's not visible to the
public has an expectation of privacy as well?
MR. GARRE: Not when it comes to contraband,
Your Honor. And we think that the Kyllo case helps --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that -- that is
circular. Then why do you need a search warrant? If
you have no expectation of privacy in the contraband,
why bother even with a search warrant?
MR. GARRE: Because, Your Honor, when you
have a search warrant and you go into a home, there's
going to be a lot of private information that you're
going to come across, even if your expectation is
finding evidence of a crime.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre, does your
argument mean -- you say minimally intrusive, and that
the dog will detect only contraband, that the police
then are to go into a neighborhood that's known to be a
drug dealing neighborhood, go into -- just go down the
street, have the dog sniff in front of every door, or go
into an apartment building?
Is that -- I gather that that is your
position.
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, they could do that,
just like the police could go door to door and then
knock on the doors and hope that they will find out
evidence of wrongdoing that way.
But the two responses this Court has always
pointed to is the restraint on resources and the check
of community hostility.
Here, the police were combatting a serious
epidemic of grow houses, hundreds of houses each year
that were a scourge to the community, not only in terms
just of the drugs that they were growing --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose -- suppose the
house had on the lawn, no dogs allowed?
MR. GARRE: I think that would be different,
Your Honor. It would be -- and that's a way in which
the house is different than a car. Homeowners can
restrict access to people who come up to their front
door by putting gates or a sign out front.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's right.
And there's such a thing as what is called the curtilage
of a house.
As I understand the law, the police are
entitled to use binoculars to look into the house if --
if the residents leave the blinds open, right?
MR. GARRE: That's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But if they can't see
clearly enough from a distance, they're not entitled to
go onto the curtilage of the house, inside the gate, and
use the binoculars from that vantage point, are they?
MR. GARRE: They're not, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why isn't it the same thing
with the dog? This dog was brought right up -- right up
to the -- to the door of the house.
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, first of all, I
think that, as this case comes to the Court, the police
were lawfully present at the front door. That was
established by the courts below, and we don't think that
they've challenged it here.
That's at least true with respect to the
police officer. The police officer could go up to the
front door and knock and detect the smell of marijuana,
just like Officer Pedraja did.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then we've taken an
unrealistic case, if that has been conceded, because it
seems to me crucial that this officer went onto the
portion of the house that -- as to which there is
privacy, and -- and used a means of -- of discerning
what was in the house that -- that should not have been
available --
MR. GARRE: Well, I think the way you
would --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- in that space.
MR. GARRE: I think the way that you would
answer that question, Your Honor, is, of course, there's
a curtilage that extends around the house and protects,
in which the homeowner has a reasonable expectation of
privacy.
It's well established, we think, going back
to the common law, that there is an implied consent for
people, visitors, salesmen, Girl Scouts,
trick-or-treaters, to come up to your house and knock on
the door --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but not implied
consent for the policeman to come up with the dog. The
only purpose of the dog is to detect contraband.
So you can say, yes, there's an implied
invitation to the Girl Scout cookie seller, to the
postman, even to the police officer, but not police
officer with dog, when the only reason for having the
dog is to find out if there's contraband in the house.
MR. GARRE: Well, Justice Ginsburg, first of
all, I think, if the Girl Scout or the salesman or the
trick-or-treater brought up a dog with them, there would
be complied consent for that too, at least as long as
the dog was on a leash.
I don't think the subjective --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is not any dog.
This is a drug detecting dog.
MR. GARRE: No, that's right. But I don't
think it changes the subjective purpose of why they
brought the dog with them.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why is that an implied
consent? That's a huge assumption. At least in the
cities that I've lived in, you have to have a dog on a
leash. And you don't give implied consent. If you're
allergic to animals, you don't want dogs walking around
at your door.
MR. GARRE: Well, you can certainly put the
"No Dogs Allowed" sign out front. And there, there
would not be implied consent.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, no. But tell me
why that you presume that there's implied consent?
MR. GARRE: Well, we start with the
proposition that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think homeowners
freely let dogs just come into their apartment? I mean,
there might be some homes that do.
MR. GARRE: Well, certainly not in the
apartment, Your Honor. This search took place, the dog
walked up the same way that a salesman would and alerted
at the front of the door. He didn't go in --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we're going to treat
it like a human being now? You're invited to knock on
my door because you're a dog?
MR. GARRE: No, I think -- and certainly
this is true in my neighborhood, Your Honor, is
neighbors can bring their dog up on the leash when they
knock on your front door, and I think that's true in
most neighborhoods in America.
Homeowners that don't like dogs and want
them off their property have a way to combat that, and
that's putting a fence around it to say, no dogs --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So now we tell --
MR. GARRE: -- allowed.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- all the drug dealers,
put up a sign that says "No dogs."
MR. GARRE: Well, they could, Your Honor.
There are certainly houses that have that.
But with respect to the question --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't it fair just to
assume that -- what's logical? I -- I let people knock
on my door because they have to say something to me. I
don't let a dog come up to my door -- I don't
willy-nilly invite it to come up to my door.
MR. GARRE: And I think -- Your Honor, I
think the reason why that doesn't work here is that if
you ask that question with respect to the officer, I
think it's well settled or accepted that police officers
can walk up the front path, absent a sign or something,
knock on the door --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That implied consent,
does that include them coming up and -- up to your porch
and sweeping stuff into a garbage pan?
MR. GARRE: I don't think it would,
Your Honor. I think that we're talking about going up
there, knocking on the door. The police officer cannot
just --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Police officers can come
there to knock on the door, but I thought you've
conceded that police officers can't come there to look
into the house with binoculars, right?
MR. GARRE: With binoculars --
JUSTICE SCALIA: When the purpose of the
officer's going there is to -- is to conduct a search,
it's not permitted.
MR. GARRE: If the purpose of the police
officer here, for example, was to walk up to the house,
hope that they answered the door, or hope that once they
were up there, that they would smell the odor of
marijuana, as Officer Pedraja did, that would not
convert it into a search. There was no invasion,
physical invasion.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's true, but if you're
looking at expectation of a reasonable homeowner,
imagine you have a home, a long driveway. You do expect
people to come up and come into the house, knock on the
door, maybe even with dogs. Do you expect them to sit
there for 5 to 15 minutes, 15 minutes, not knocking on
the door, doing nothing? I mean --
MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- is that something I
wouldn't -- would you be nervous about that?
MR. GARRE: -- I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: Anyone coming to your door
and not knocking.
MR. GARRE: I think what -- I think what
happened here --
JUSTICE BREYER: Just sniffing.
MR. GARRE: Well, I think everyone accepts
when someone comes to your door, they can avail
themselves of their God-given senses, whether it's
looking into a window without binoculars,
taking -- breathing in and smelling the air, as Officer
Pedraja did.
I don't think there's a constitutional
difference when the person has --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, there is in this sense.
Justice Scalia just said it. He said, you do have an
expectation of people coming into your door, perhaps
even with animals, perhaps even with binoculars, but not
looking into the house, not looking into the house from
the front step with the binoculars.
Now, why is that unconstitutional? Because
it's very unusual that someone would do that, and a
homeowner would resent it.
MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: Would a homeowner resent
someone coming with a large animal sitting in front of
the front step on his property and sitting there
sniffing for 5 to 15 minutes?
Forget the sniffing. Just talking, loud
noises. Is that something that you invite people to do?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, what I think you can
say there is implied consent to is a dog accompanying a
person on a leash walking up to the front door, taking a
sniff in a matter of seconds, not minutes --
JUSTICE BREYER: Ah. Is that what happened
here?
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that's not what the
record says, Mr. Garre.
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought what happened
here was 5 to 15 minutes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, the record suggests
that he put the dog on a very long leash, the dog goes
back and forth, tries to figure out where the smell is
coming from.
It's not just -- you know, my first thought
was you go up to the door, the dog barks once, and
that's it. But you read the record, this dog is there
for some extended period of time, going back and forth
and back and forth, trying to figure out where the
greatest concentration of the smell is.
It actually seemed, from my reading of the
record, to be, you know, a lengthy and obtrusive
process.
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I think what the
record shows is, is that the dog was on the scene, i.e.,
at the curb, walking up, going back into the car, and
then leaving, for a total of 5 to 10 minutes.
Walking up to the front steps, sniffing,
alerting and leaving is a matter of seconds or minutes.
It's not -- the dog isn't up there for 5 to 10 minutes.
It happens very quickly.
I think in thinking about reasonable
expectations of privacy, it is important to keep in mind
physically what's happening in these houses. These
people are growing drugs in the houses with the aid of
electricity and light and heat. And they need -- they
need air conditioning in order to control the heat.
And that air conditioning is blowing a very
strong odor of drugs out into the public, and the people
know that. They know that. We know they know that
because they use mothballs, which Officer Pedraja found
here at the front of the house, outside of the house.
And so what you're talking about, although
we talk about what's going on in the home, really what's
happening here is odor of illegal contraband is being
blown out into the street and someone is coming up to it
and using their God-given senses in a way that humans
and dogs have used for centuries and detecting that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we've had a
lot of -- we've had a lot of discussion about whether
it's 5 minutes or 15 minutes or whether it's mothballs.
I understood the issue before us to be whether or not
under the Fourth Amendment it is a search for a dog to
come up to the door and sniff, not with respect to --
we're not making a judgment, I thought, on the probable
cause in light of the totality of the circumstances, but
the ground of decision below was this is a search when
the dog sniffs.
MR. GARRE: That you need probable cause
just for the dog to sniff. No, that's absolutely right.
And the dog sniff itself clearly is not a
physical invasion in the same way that looking is not a
physical invasion under the common law. And the dog, we
think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It isn't just the sniffing
in the abstract. It's the sniffing at this point, the
sniffing at a person's front door, right? I mean --
MR. GARRE: Well, that's true, Your Honor,
but I think if it wasn't a search for the police officer
to walk up there and sniff and report smelling live
marijuana, then it wasn't a search when Franky walked up
there and alerted to the presence of an illegal
narcotic.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I didn't say it
wouldn't be a search if the police officer himself did
that if he went there with the intention of -- of
smelling at the door. He's going there to search, and
he shouldn't be on the curtilage to search.
MR. GARRE: I think it's been conceded in
this case, at least it was below, that the officer could
walk up there, knock on the door, report the smell of
marijuana, and that that was not a search.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Garre, this is what we
said in Kyllo. And I'm just going to read it. We said,
"We think that obtaining by sense-enhancing technology
any information regarding the interior of the home that
could not otherwise have been obtained without physical
intrusion into a constitutionally protected area
constitutes a search, at least where, as here, the
technology in question is not in general public use."
So what part of that do you think separates
your case from this one? In other words, what part of
that language does not apply in this case?
MR. GARRE: Well, first of all, Franky's
nose is not technology. It's -- he's using -- he's
availing himself of God-given senses in the way that
dogs have helped mankind for centuries.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So does that mean that if we
invented some kind of little machine called a, you know,
smell-o-matic and the police officer had this
smell-o-matic machine, and it alerted to the exact same
things that a dog alerts to, it alerted to a set of
drugs, meth and marijuana and whatever else, the police
officer could not come to the front door and use that
machine?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I think the
contraband rationale would be the same. It would be
different in that you don't have technology in this
case.
And I think that's an important distinction
because, as we read Kyllo, the Court was very concerned
about advances in technology, and that's just not true
for a dog's nose.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So your basic distinction is
the difference between like a machine and Franky.
MR. GARRE: Well --
JUSTICE KAGAN: That we should not
understand Franky as kind of a sense-enhancing law
enforcement technology, but we should think of him as
just like a guy.
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I think that's true
for two reasons. One is Franky is using the same sense
of smell that dogs have used for centuries. So this
isn't a case where if you allow a dog to sniff today, he
might use x-ray vision in the future. That's not going
to happen.
And the other thing is that Franky -- that
the use of dogs for their sense of smell, which everyone
agrees is extraordinary, mankind has been using them for
law enforcement type purposes for centuries.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not this -- not this
purpose. You said centuries, but I think you recognize
that it wasn't until the seventies when the dogs were
used to find culprits. But to use it in this way I
think it was only since the seventies.
MR. GARRE: Well, to use it for drug
detection purposes, that's right. But they've -- we've
been using dogs to track thieves for centuries going
back before the founding. Scotland Yard -- Scotland
Yard used dogs to track Jack the Ripper. That's the
same type of way in which they are being used here.
The fact is today they're looking for
drugs in this context, but --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, there's no
dispute that dogs can smell what human beings can't; is
that correct? It's not that we can find a machine to
put it on a human being to enhance their sense of
smells; dogs can do something human beings can't.
MR. GARRE: They have a much better sense of
smell, that's right. But I think if you look at --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you have to treat him
like a guy, to think that he is not like technology in
terms of augmenting what a human being can do.
MR. GARRE: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He's not augmenting what
a human being can do. He's substituting what a human
being can do.
MR. GARRE: He's -- the dogs, no doubt, have
an enhanced sense of smell compared to the officer. But
I think that's really not functionally different than
using an airplane to look into the house, like in
Florida v. Reilly. And in that sense, I think this case
is a lot like that.
In Florida v. Reilly, the officers used a
helicopter to fly over the drug house, and they saw
exposed marijuana. Here, you're using the drug
detection dog to smell the odor of marijuana that is
being pumped out of the house into the street.
And the people who use the house know that.
They know that, and we know they know that because the
mothballs were present. Mothballs are a masking agent.
People don't have a legitimate expectation
of privacy, this Court has held, in things that they
knowingly expose to the public, even in the home.
That's what the Court said in Florida v. Reilly. It's
what it said in Katz itself.
And I think, here, one way to resolve it is
to say people who live in grow houses with a distinct
odor of marijuana, who know that that is being pumped
out into the street because of the air conditioning that
they need to run the grow houses, there is no invasion
in their -- in their expectation of privacy when either
a man or a dog, when lawfully present on the property,
uses their God-given senses to detect that.
If I could reserve --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. GARRE: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Saharsky.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY,
FOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MS. SAHARSKY: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
I'd like to go right to two points that
respond to the Court's questions. The first is the
question of whether the officer and the dog were
lawfully in place, whether they could approach the front
door, was conceded below. And, as the court -- as the
case comes to this Court, that is not an issue before
the Court. And I want to make sure that the Court
has --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I didn't -- I didn't
understand the concession to be that the police had come
to the door with the dog, the sole purpose of the dog
being to detect contraband.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, let me give the Court
specific citations on that. The court of appeals, the
Florida Court of Appeals, found that the dog and the
officer were lawfully in place. That's JA pages 104,
105, 112, 116 and 120.
Before the Florida Supreme Court at oral
argument, Respondent conceded that there was no
reasonable expectation of privacy in the porch, and the
Florida Supreme Court accepted that concession. That's
Petition Appendix page 31, also noted by the dissent in
pages 78 to 79.
In the brief in opposition to cert,
Respondent said that the police could approach the front
door for a knock and talk, and made no separate argument
about the dog's presence there making it not lawful.
So as this case comes to the Court, it is
with the dog and the officer lawfully in place at the
front door, approaching the front door just like any
Girl Scout, trick-or-treater, or anyone else could.
And just to respond, Justice Ginsburg, to
the questions that you raised, the police officer's
purpose in approaching the front door does not mean that
the officer can't come to the door. The Court has said
in many contexts that officer purpose doesn't matter,
and it doesn't matter if the officer is looking for a
lost child or thinking that that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're agreeing with
Mr. Garre that the police could take a dog and go down
every house on the street, every apartment in the
building?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, assuming that the
police can lawfully be in the place that they are going
with the dog, which is conceded here --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: A house just like this
house?
MS. SAHARSKY: If they are approaching the
front door using the normal path, because the dog only
detects contraband, yes, they could be used in those
circumstances, but that's not happening.
There have been justices who've warned about
that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, so any home, any
home anywhere, and we should say that that's okay, and
we can say it's okay because the government won't use
it?
MS. SAHARSKY: There are justices that have
warned about this for over 30 years, and these problems
have not come to fruition. There are restraints on
police resources. There's the potential for community
hostility. If you look at the cases that have arose in
the courts of appeals --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This Court has dealt with
an item that was seized before, a piece of luggage, a
car. They have not dealt with the dog sniff in the
context of a home that's not seized.
MS. SAHARSKY: But in Caballes, where
admittedly the Court did not decide this specific issue,
it distinguished the case of Kyllo as saying that that
was finding out about lawful activity in the home, and
that a person -- the critical distinction between Kyllo
and the dog sniff in Caballes is that a person does not
have a reasonable expectation of privacy in contraband.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just -- again, as I told
Mr. Garre, I just can't accept that as the premise for
the case. The argument we're having about whether there
is a reasonable expectation in society generally,
whether or not the police because of limited
resources are not going to have -- that's all fine. But
this idea that, oh, well, if there is contraband,
then all the -- all the rules go out the window, that's
just circular, and it won't work for me, anyway.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I wanted to be sure to
respond to that, Justice Kennedy, because I would hate
for the Court to have the impression that all the rules
go out the window. That's not the case.
What we're talking about here is a
sniff that would allow the police to go to a detached
and neutral magistrate to say that, we have probable
cause --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Fine --
MS. SAHARSKY: -- to get a warrant.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- but don't ask me to
write an opinion and say, oh, we're dealing with
contraband here, so we don't need to worry about
expectation of privacy. There is simply no support for
that because Caballes cited Jacobsen, and Jacobsen was
where the contraband fell out of the package and it was
in plain view. So that just doesn't work, at least for
me, in this case.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, the reasoning in
contraband -- in Jacobsen, though, the Court said that
the rationale, the reason for its decision in Place, is
because when you're talking about people's reasonable
expectations of privacy, they have both a subjective and
an objective component.
So it's not just that you want to keep
something private; it's that you need to have a
legitimate expectation that you can keep that private.
And the Court has said over and over, in Place, in
Caballes, in Jacobsen, that you do not have a legitimate
expectation with respect to contraband.
That doesn't mean that the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Again, I don't think the
cases go that far because those were cases in which the
contraband -- Jacobsen -- was in plain view. Everybody
knows that it falls out of the package. At that point,
you don't have any --
What you're saying is, oh, well, if there is
contraband in the house, then you have no legitimate
expectation of privacy. That, for me, does not work.
MS. SAHARSKY: What we're trying to say,
Justice Kennedy, is not that you lack any privacy
expectation in the home. That's why you need to get a
warrant before going into the home.
All the dog sniff allows is for the police
to try to go to a magistrate and establish probable
cause to get a warrant.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's fine. We can talk
about reasonable suspicion. That's all okay.
JUSTICE KAGAN: How does what you're saying,
Ms. Saharsky, square with Karo? Because in Karo, the
only thing that the beeper alerted to in the home was
the can of ether, which was clearly an item that was
being used for drug manufacture. And there was nothing
else other than that item, which you might not call it
contraband, but it was evidence of illegality, this can
of ether. There was no thought that it was used for
anything else. And that was the only thing that the
beeper alerted it to; and, yet, nonetheless, we said,
you know, of course that's a search.
MS. SAHARSKY: I think that my answer
touches on the point that you made, which is it was not
contraband. The police thought that it might be
evidence of a crime, but the Court did not say it was
contraband.
And, actually, there was a discussion at the
oral argument, where defense counsel made very clear
that ether has many lawful uses. That makes it
different from what the Court considered in Place. This
came after the Court's decision in Place.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, not lawful uses in
somebody's house. I mean, maybe lawful uses in a
factory or in an operating room, but nobody has cans of
ether in their house unless they're making drugs.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, with respect,
Your Honor, the defense counsel I think correctly
suggested in the Karo oral argument that, in fact, there
are lawful uses in photography labs in houses and the
like. He actually had an expert that came to the
suppression hearing in that case and testified about the
various lawful uses of ether in a house.
So I think, as the argument came to the
Court, the government was not making an argument that
that was contraband or evidence of a crime. The
government was just saying, oh, it's very limited
information, because we had already -- we had already
tracked the ether to the house, so you weren't finding
out much.
And the Court said basically what it said in
Kyllo, which is, it might not be much, but it's still
about lawful information, activity in the house, and
that's protected.
But in Caballes, the Court came back and
said, sure, we've said Kyllo, lawful activity in the
house, but your interests in protecting contraband are
different; those are not legitimate interests. And the
Court has said that again and again and again.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But in Kyllo -- and I think
this was what Justice Kennedy was saying. In Kyllo,
there was already a seizure that had happened, and the
Court just said, this is no -- this is really no greater
an intrusion.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, with respect, when we
look at the -- when we look at the language in these
cases, in Caballes and the like, you know, the Court
wasn't saying, oh, it's not a search because this has
already -- this had already been seized and nothing more
was happening. The Court said it was not a search
because there is no legitimate expectation of privacy.
And just to be clear, the question about
whether folks have a reasonable expectation of privacy
with respect to contraband in their house has to take
into account two facts: First, that we're only talking
about contraband; but, also, that dogs have been
used and known for centuries for their sense of smell.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but I -- what I'm
curious about, and it's an unanswered question for me,
is we are considering whether the dog sniff is
permissible, so I wanted to know what a dog sniff at the
front door involves. And at page 96, 97, 98 of the
joint appendix, with which you are familiar, it explains
that. It isn't just going up and (indicating); that's
it. It's a process called bracketing.
They describe it at length. The officer,
the dog officer, said he was in a rush that day and it
didn't take more than 5 to 10 minutes. And my question
really is whether an ordinary homeowner expects people
to walk down the curtilage and, with a big animal, and
the animal -- they don't knock. They behave in the page
96, 97, 98 way.
I subjectively think, well, that's pretty
unusual behavior, whether it's a policeman or anybody
else. So what do you respond?
MS. SAHARSKY: This sniff occurred very
quickly, and it --
JUSTICE BREYER: It was 5 to 10 minutes and
it's 96-97.
MS. SAHARSKY: Right. I think the 5 to 10
minutes, like counsel said, was the whole process of --
of bringing the dog up to the door, et cetera. The
sniff happened very quickly. But putting that to the
side, what the dog is doing is sniffing things that have
been exposed to the public from inside the house, smells
that the officer himself could smell, could smell in --
in plain smell.
And the Court has said in other cases, like
in Place, that what the dog is doing is very limited in
scope; it happens very quickly; there is no physical
invasion; it's something that actually this Court has
said in Florida v. Royer is something that we want
officers to do, because it --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could I follow up on
Justice Breyer's question, because it strikes me as a
little confusing. Does the dog, as soon as he or she is
at the door, sniff and sit or sniff and not sit, or does
the dog -- I mean, you've talked about the sniff is
immediate. What -- what is the 5 to 10 minutes?
MS. SAHARSKY: The 5 to 10 minutes as I read
the record was the whole process. The -- the dog sniff
I think took seconds or maybe a minute or 2 minutes --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the whole
process is -- is what?
MS. SAHARSKY: That they were -- that they
met at the front gate, that they were walking up to
the -- to the door, that the dog did the sniff, that
the -- that he talked to the other officer, and then he
went back to his car, which was parked I think some --
some length of time away. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It doesn't take the
5 to 10 minutes to walk to the door. So the officer
walks to the door, the dog sniffs right away and then?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, the dog sniffs. He has
to find the strongest source of the odor. So he
starts sniffing right away. He sniffs around for a few
seconds; he finds the strongest source of the odor and
he sits down at that place.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where -- where in
the -- where in the record do I find the few seconds
point?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I think the -- probably
the cites that -- that Justice Breyer gave are the cites
that describe it. So I'm not sure that there is
something more specific than that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MS. SAHARSKY: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Blumberg.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF HOWARD K. BLUMBERG
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. BLUMBERG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Police officers taking a narcotics detection
dog up to the front door of a house is a Fourth
Amendment search for two distinct and separate reasons.
First, when police reveal any details inside
a home which an individual seeks to keep private, that
is a Fourth Amendment search and that is exactly what a
narcotics detection dog is doing, revealing details in
the home the individual seeks to keep private.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's your first reason
and I don't want you to be deterred from giving us the
second, but if we can concentrate on that for a minute.
That seems to me a proposition that's
equally unacceptable to what the government is saying,
that you have no interest in contraband. The police
often, when they have ordinary conversation with people,
want to find out the details of what that person is
doing, where the person lives, what goes on in the
house.
"Hello, have you had a nice time at the --
at the park today? I see you're coming home with your
children; is this where you live?" This is all routine
conversation that we always have in order to try to find
out what people are doing, what they are like, where
they live. So I -- I think the statement, and you --
you repeated it quite accurately from what you have at
page 16 of your brief -- just goes too far. Our
decisions "establish that police action which reveals
any detail an individual seeks to keep private is a
search" -- that is just a sweeping proposition that in
my view, at least, cannot be accepted in this case. I
think it's just too sweeping and wrong.
MR. BLUMBERG: Justice Kennedy, I would add
a few words to the end of that statement: Anything that
an individual seeks to keep private in the home, and
that's the difference. Your hypothet about
conversation, certainly a police officer can talk to
someone and ask them questions about --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the police officer
talked with somebody at the police station, or walking
down the street about what their occupation is, do they
work at home. They're -- they are trying to get
information. That's perfectly legitimate.
MR. BLUMBERG: Certainly, but in that
hypothet --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then your broad
statement simply does not work.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose you -- you have
someone who, who has been guilty of a crime. He has --
he has the body. He has committed a murder and he has
the body in the home. He certainly wants to keep that
private, right? And he foolishly and mistakenly leaves
the blinds open in the room where -- where the corpse is
lying, and the policeman at a great distance has a
telescope and he looks through the blinds and he sees
the corpse. Can the police go into the home?
MR. BLUMBERG: In that situation, the person
inside the home has knowingly exposed what is inside the
home to the public.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh -- he hasn't knowingly.
He was careless.
MR. BLUMBERG: Well, but I -- I understood
under your hypothetic that he knowingly left the blinds
open.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He certainly wanted to keep
it -- he wanted to keep it private.
MR. BLUMBERG: Well, certainly; and the
defendant in Reilly wanted to keep the marijuana
private.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you could say the
same thing here. They wanted to keep private the fact
that they were growing the marijuana, but they -- they
used a means of suppressing the heat that made it
impossible to keep it private.
MR. BLUMBERG: Well, that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They were careless.
MR. BLUMBERG: I -- I don't believe there is
anything in the record to indicate that the air
conditioner was blowing the smell of marijuana out from
the house in a very strong manner. As a matter of
fact --
JUSTICE SCALIA: There were the mothballs.
MR. BLUMBERG: There were mothballs there,
and Detective Bartelt, the dog handler that was standing
at the front door as well, testified without
contradiction or without hesitation he didn't smell
anything.
So if -- if Mr. Garre's representation about
an air conditioner basically blowing the smell of
marijuana outside the house so that anybody would smell
it --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What were the
mothballs there for?
MR. BLUMBERG: The mothballs presumably were
there to -- to mask the smell of an odor coming from the
house.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay, then --
MR. BLUMBERG: It's manifesting an
expectation of privacy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's my
question. Are we talking about the expectation of
privacy in the marijuana or the expectation of privacy
in the odor?
MR. BLUMBERG: The expectation of privacy on
the -- in the details, what's going on inside your
house.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well -- well, no,
that can't be right, because if you're letting smoke out
that -- that -- I don't know, from the burning of a body
or something, you don't say, well, because he's trying
to conceal that you can't rely on the smoke.
MR. BLUMBERG: But that's knowingly
exposing what's inside the house.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So I guess the
question here is, if you appreciate the fact that the
odor is coming out to the extent that you're going to
put mothballs all around the house, it seems to me that
you -- you may have an expectation of privacy in the
marijuana plants, but you don't have an expectation of
privacy in the odor, because you're emitting it out, out
into the world, and it's the odor that was detected.
MR. BLUMBERG: But assuming that's what the
mothballs were there for, that's to keep the odor inside
the house, so that the public cannot find -- cannot
detect that odor, unless you go up there --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's like saying
you put the -- the drugs in a -- in a bag to protect
them from observation on the outside, but you use, you
know, a clear bag rather than a, you know, opaque one or
something. You didn't -- you weren't very successful.
And -- when you began you said assuming that's what the
mothballs were there for. That is what they were there
for, isn't it? There is no other reason --
MR. BLUMBERG: There's -- there is really no
evidence in the record as to -- the only people who
testified at the hearing on the motion to suppress were
the two police officers.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I think your first
reason is -- is so broad, it is clearly incorrect. It's
so broad, you ought to go on to your second reason.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, I was going to
ask for your second, your second point.
MR. BLUMBERG: Well, the -- when a police
officer takes a narcotics detection dog up to the front
door of the house, that is also a Fourth Amendment
search because that is a physical trespass upon the
constitutionally protected area of the curtilage of the
home.
JUSTICE ALITO: You know, we've had hundreds
of years of trespass cases in this country and in
England. Has there -- do you have a single case
holding that it is a trespass for a person with a dog to
walk up to the front door of a house?
MR. BLUMBERG: Well, there are cases that go
back to the -- I'm sorry, I don't have the, the
citations -- but there are cases in the 1700s that
established that basically a dog running on to someone
else's property is a trespass.
JUSTICE ALITO: That really wasn't my
question, was it?
MR. BLUMBERG: I thought your question
was if a dog comes on to private property --
JUSTICE ALITO: If a dog on a leash is
brought up to the front door of a person's house, was
that a trespass at the time when the Fourth Amendment
was adopted?
MR. BLUMBERG: If it was without the consent
of the homeowner, yes, it was a trespass.
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the case that says
that?
MR. BLUMBERG: I do not have the case.
JUSTICE ALITO: You don't have the case.
JUSTICE BREYER: You're assuming the
conclusion in these things. I mean, I thought since
Katz the rule has been whether the homeowner has a
reasonable expectation of privacy in -- which is
infringed or violated or interfered with when the
government acts. So it's a question of does he have
that reasonable expectation. So now we're back to
exactly where we were. Your opponents say, no, there is
no reasonable expectation of privacy --
MR. BLUMBERG: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- to protect a person with
a dog coming up to the door and going (indicating), all
right? Now, your response to that is what?
MR. BLUMBERG: My response to that is that
does violate the resident's reasonable expectation of
privacy.
JUSTICE BREYER: And then the question was,
as Justice Alito put it, why? He says, we go back to
the 17th century, as far as you want, and there is no
law that says there is any kind of expectation in a
homeowner that a person won't walk up to the dog -- to
the door with a dog on a leash and sniff, which, as he
says -- which your opponents say is what happened here.
And your response to that is?
MR. BLUMBERG: My response to that is that
any entry onto private property in the 1700's was a
trespass, was the tort of trespass, unless it was with
consent.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about, Mr. Blumberg,
the government cited many, many pages in the record, I
just took the first one, petition -- appendix to the
petition, 104 and 105. The court said, the officer and
the dog were lawfully present at the defendant's front
door, and we were told that that was conceded by you a
number of times.
MR. BLUMBERG: Absolutely not,
Justice Ginsburg. What I -- what I said in the Florida
Supreme Court, I was given a hypothet about an officer
coming up by himself without the dog to knock on the
front door and talk to the homeowner. And I said that I
conceded that would not be a violation of a reasonable
expectation of privacy, and this Court has stated as
much in Kentucky v. King.
And then the Court said to me, what's the
difference? And I said the dog. And that's exactly
what I'm saying here.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So that's
clearly -- you do concede if the police officer walks up
to the door, smells it himself, no problem there; is
that right?
MR. BLUMBERG: If the police officer is
perform -- is knocking on the door, part of a knock and
talk, yes; but, if the police --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But smells it himself, so
there's no problem there.
So the difference is the dog. So what
difference does the dog make?
Suppose the dog were not doing this
ten-minute bracketing that Justice Breyer was talking
about. Suppose this really were a very simple
procedure. The dog comes up, takes a sniff, barks, sits
down. And, you know, to make it even more, the dog is
not a scary-looking dog, the dog is a Cockapoo.
So just like, you know, your neighbor with
his Cockapoo walks up to your door all the time, that's
what this police officer has done. Why do you win then?
MR. BLUMBERG: Well, whether it's a Cockapoo
or Franky, who, from all the pictures, appears to be a
very cute dog, it's not what the dog looks like, it's
what the dog is doing on the front porch, which is --
JUSTICE KAGAN: The dog does what your
neighbor's dog does.
MR. BLUMBERG: Well, no, this dog -- the
neighbor's dog does not search for evidence on your
front porch. That's the key distinction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But, Mr. Blumberg, I think
you're, with respect, misguided to concede that if it
was just the officer alone without the dog, it would be
perfectly okay.
MR. BLUMBERG: I did not mean to concede
that, and I was going to say that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I thought you did.
MR. BLUMBERG: I was about to return to
your --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I would assume you
would say that if the officer walks up there with no
intention to knock and talk, but just walks up to the
door with the intention of sniffing at the door, you
would consider that to be a violation, wouldn't you?
MR. BLUMBERG: And that was the point I was
going to make in response to Justice Kagan's question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, our
Fourth Amendment cases are very clear that they don't
turn on the subjective intent of the particular officer.
MR. BLUMBERG: And I am not arguing that. I
am arguing --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you just
said it depends on whether or not he's going up to the
door to sniff or going up for something else.
MR. BLUMBERG: It depends what the officer
does at the front door, not what his state of mind is.
If the officer goes up to the front door and
starts sniffing around the cracks and crevices --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, sure, if he's
down on his knees; but, what if he goes up to the front
door and sniffs? I mean, he's --
MR. BLUMBERG: That's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- he's got to
breathe. I mean, how do you tell whether it's
different?
I don't understand. He's going up to drop
off, you know, tickets to the Policeman's Ball, and he
smells marijuana. What is that? Is that a violation or
not?
MR. BLUMBERG: It is not because he is not
performing any type of search.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it depends
on -- but if he's going up to sniff, it is a violation?
MR. BLUMBERG: Not going up to sniff. If he
goes up there and does sniff --
JUSTICE ALITO: What if he goes to --
MR. BLUMBERG: -- and starts searching
around, looking in the windows --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- he goes to deliver the
tickets, and he sniffs? He doesn't intend to sniff
before he goes, but he goes the deliver the tickets, and
he smells the marijuana. Is that a search?
MR. BLUMBERG: No, because he's not
performing any kind of search. And this Court has
repeatedly held that an officer --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, he doing exactly the
same thing. Two officers go up to two identical houses.
One goes up with the subjective intent to sniff. The
other one goes up with the subjective intent to drop off
the tickets to the Policeman's Ball. Your answer is one
is a search, one is not a search.
MR. BLUMBERG: No, and I am not in any way,
shape or form tying it to the subjective intent of the
officer.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. Again, I think
you're wrong not to accept that. I think our cases
support it. I think you cannot enter the protected
portion of a home, which is called the curtilage, with
the intention of conducting a search, that that is not
permitted. I think our cases establish that.
MR. BLUMBERG: I believe the language --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it's fine to say -- I
don't think it's true that the intent of the officer is
never relevant. It is relevant in that context.
The reason for the officer going onto
protected property, if he's going on just to knock on
the door to sell tickets to the Policeman's Ball, that's
fine. If he's going on to conduct a search, that's
something else.
MR. BLUMBERG: The language in this Court's
opinion in Jones is for the purpose of conducting a
search.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can odors be in --
in the equivalent of plain sight, plain smell? In other
words, the officer goes up to drop off the Policeman's
Ball tickets, the door is open, he sees the dead body.
The officer goes up to sell the Policeman's Ball
tickets, and he sees -- he smells the marijuana. Okay
in both cases, right?
MR. BLUMBERG: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So this depends upon
how strong the odor is.
MR. BLUMBERG: This Court's decisions
establish that a police officer does not have to close
his eyes when he goes up to the front door of a house to
do a knock and talk. He does not have to hold his nose
to prevent. Anything that he naturally observes using
his ordinary senses when he is there for a lawful
purpose such as a knock and talk is fine.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If the -- let's say
it's a townhouse that goes right up to the sidewalk. If
the police go by with their dog intending to sniff, and
the dog alerts, on the sidewalk but two feet away is the
front door, that's okay, right?
MR. BLUMBERG: Well, that would not be a
trespass. That would not be a search because a
trespass --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's okay?
MR. BLUMBERG: No, it's not okay,
respectfully, because the dog would still be revealing
details inside the home that the officer could not
reveal using his or her ordinary senses. That's our
first argument in this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, let me make
sure I understand you. The policeman is walking down
the sidewalk with his dog, the dog stops and alerts.
That doesn't constitute sufficient probable cause to get
a search warrant to go into the townhouse. There's been
no entry onto the property, just a policeman walking
with his dog.
MR. BLUMBERG: Well, but I assume on your
hypothet it's a policeman walking with his narcotics
detection dog up and down the street.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
MR. BLUMBERG: A dog that he knows is
trained --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He's walking the
dog. He's not out searching. He's walking the K-9 dog,
and the dog alerts on a house without any trespass. You
think that's still bad?
MR. BLUMBERG: Yes. And I would submit that
would basically be the same thing as a police officer
walking up and down the street with a thermal imager
that's turned on.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you do say that this is
an easier case.
MR. BLUMBERG: This is an easier case, of
course, because the police officer in this case -- and
not only the facts of this case, but the question
presented is going up to the front door of a home.
JUSTICE ALITO: I thought the relevance of
technology was that the technology that we have now was
not necessarily -- was not -- much of it was not
available at the time when the Fourth Amendment was
adopted, so we can't tell what the -- what people in
1791 would have thought about it.
But that's not true of dogs. Dogs were
around. They have been around for 10,000 years.
MR. BLUMBERG: Dogs were around,
Justice Alito --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- and they've been
used -- and they've been used to detect scents for
10,000 -- for thousands of years. Certainly, they were
available for that purpose in 1791, weren't they?
MR. BLUMBERG: But in 1791, dogs had not
been trained to detect criminal activity within a
house -- not -- I'm sorry --
JUSTICE ALITO: But they had been trained to
track people, had they not?
MR. BLUMBERG: Yes. Dogs have been tracking
people --
JUSTICE ALITO: So in 1791, if someone -- if
the police were using -- or somebody was using a
bloodhound to track -- someone who was suspected of a
crime, and the bloodhound -- and they used the
bloodhound to track the person to the front of -- to the
front door of a house, would that have been regarded as
a trespass?
MR. BLUMBERG: Yes, I believe it still would
have.
JUSTICE ALITO: And what's the case that
says that?
MR. BLUMBERG: Well, the -- I do not have a
case that says that taking a bloodhound up to the front
door of a house would be a trespass. But if you analyze
it under the definition of what a trespass is, it's an
unlawful entry onto private property without consent of
the homeowner. And there is no --
JUSTICE ALITO: Without implied consent.
MR. BLUMBERG: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: Actual or implied consent.
MR. BLUMBERG: I don't believe a homeowner,
back in the 1700's, impliedly consented to police coming
up to the front door of his house with a bloodhound,
even though everybody knew they could do that.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, are there cases that
say that the implied consent exists only where the
person is coming to the door for a purpose that the
homeowner would approve, if the homeowner knew the
purpose of the person coming to the door?
MR. BLUMBERG: The specific doctrine is
implied consent by custom. And so you look to what is
it customary for people to accept in terms of people
coming onto their property.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: How is that different from
what Justice Breyer I think correctly indicated, our
inquiry as to whether there is a reasonable expectation
of privacy? In a way, that's circular because if we say
there is, then there is, if we say there isn't, then
there isn't.
But if we're looking at community values in
general, isn't it a reasonable expectation of privacy?
MR. BLUMBERG: It's very similar. The two
doctrines are very similar. Whether you're saying it's
a violation of a reasonable expectation of privacy, as
Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me ask this. I think
I know what your answer would be. Suppose the policemen
have little microphones on so they can talk into their
radio, the microphone on their lapel. Suppose the
policeman goes to the homeowner and he has the
microphone in his lapel on so his partner can hear the
conversation, and they can -- the two of them talk about
it later. They're talking to the homeowner. Is that an
unlawful search?
MR. BLUMBERG: If the homeowner chooses to
engage in conversation with that officer and his
conversation is overheard on the microphone --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It doesn't occur to him
that that mike is on.
MR. BLUMBERG: But, again, when you talk to
the police officer, that's a reasonable possibility.
You don't have -- that's not a reasonable expectation of
privacy, that if you talk to a police officer, that that
might be going out to another police officer that's in
the car down the street. But there's no -- a
homeowner does not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but maybe it is a
reasonable expectation, maybe it isn't. I frankly think
that might be harder than the dog case or that you can
make a stronger case for a reasonable expectation of
privacy. If the -- if the homeowner is making a lot of
marijuana with -- with odors coming out, he knows that a
dog or a person might smell it.
MR. BLUMBERG: But, again, this particular
case is not -- the question presented does not hinge on
whether or not a normal officer could smell it, because
this officer, Detective -- I'm sorry -- Detective
Bartelt said he did not smell it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It does hinge on what is a
reasonable expectation of privacy.
MR. BLUMBERG: It does.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's what we're
trying to find out.
MR. BLUMBERG: It does.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'll look at this later,
but I'm rather surprised. My understanding of the case
law was the Chief Justice's, and I thought what you're
supposed to look at is the behavior of the individual,
the police officer, who comes to the door or looks into
the house, not his subjective motive.
Now, as we just heard, you said, and with
support here, that Jones changed that, but I don't know
what in Jones changed that. Jones was the case where
the police did in fact go to a person's car and
physically put something in it. That's -- something
that tracked. That's behavior.
MR. BLUMBERG: Correct. But the
definition --
JUSTICE BREYER: So what is it in Jones that
said what we're supposed to look at is not behavior, but
the subjective intent of the officer?
MR. BLUMBERG: It's the language in Jones
that says one of the elements in determining whether or
not a physical trespass constitutes a search under the
Fourth Amendment is, is there a physical trespass, onto
a constitutionally protected area, for the purpose of
conducting a search. Those are the three elements of
the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the
constitutionally protected area in this case?
MR. BLUMBERG: In this case, the curtilage
of the home.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even though it's the
sidewalk where people -- there's an implied license for
people to walk up to --
MR. BLUMBERG: Well, that was your --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, it may be a search.
I see that.
MR. BLUMBERG: It's not a sidewalk here.
It's the front door.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not the sidewalk here,
is it? It's the front part.
MR. BLUMBERG: No, no, it's the front door
of the home here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But there is an
implied license to walk up to the front door, right?
MR. BLUMBERG: Only -- only to do certain
things.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There's -- there's an
implied license to -- to go on to the curtilage for most
people.
MR. BLUMBERG: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The curtilage is -- is not
sacrosanct.
MR. BLUMBERG: To do certain things such as
to try to and sell Girl Scout cookies, to knock -- even
a police officer can go on to the curtilage, to knock on
to the door -- I'm sorry -- to knock on the front door,
to try and engage the person inside the home in a
conversation.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could we go back to the
concession that was asked of you, what you conceded in
the Florida court or didn't? Have you conceded that the
police officer sans dog, if he had come up to the door
and knocked, that that would have been permissible, that
that was not a search or seizure?
MR. BLUMBERG: If what the police officer
was doing at the front door was a knock and talk. That
was the law --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Did he have -- did he
have a right under the facts of this case? He had been
told that in this house they were growing marijuana by a
confidential informant. Assume that's all that he had.
Would he have had a right to walk up to the door, knock
on it, and start asking questions?
MR. BLUMBERG: Without the dog.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's -- sans dog, yes.
MR. BLUMBERG: Yes, yes. That's Kentucky v.
King, I believe.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So you are
conceding that he had license to walk onto -- or walk to
the door and ask questions.
MR. BLUMBERG: A police -- there's implied
consent for a police officer to go up to the front door,
knock on the door and attempt to engage the person in
the house in conversation if they open the door.
JUSTICE ALITO: So why is that? Why is
that? If you took a poll of people and said do you
want -- do you want police officers who suspect you of
possibly engaging in criminal conduct to come to your
front door and knock on the door so they can talk to you
and attempt to get incriminating information out of you,
would most people say, yes, I consent to that?
MR. BLUMBERG: In terms of consent? Again,
it's implied consent by custom. And I think at this
point it's customary for people to expect that police
officers may come to your front door and knock on your
front door to try and talk to you. You don't have to
talk to them.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess the bottom line
is that are you taking -- it sounds to me like you're
saying there's no implied consent to bring a dog on to
my property.
MR. BLUMBERG: Absolutely. Absolutely. And
certainly not a narcotics detection dog.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're -- Mr. Garre said
differently, that there is an implied consent for your
neighbor to bring the dog up for anyone else but a
police officer. Is that what you're saying? There's an
implied consent for anyone else or there is no implied
consent, period?
MR. BLUMBERG: I think a strong argument can
be made that there is no implied consent for anyone to
bring a dog up to the front door of your house, because,
as you pointed out, a lot of people don't like -- don't
like dogs and -- and some people are allergic to dogs.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought you were
talking about a dog trained to detect contraband --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- not just any old dog.
MR. BLUMBERG: We are, but I believe the
hypothet was just any dog. But certainly, when it's --
when it's a dog trained to detect contraband, there's no
question that no one impliedly consents to that
happening and there's no question, as Justice Breyer
pointed out, that a homeowner has a reasonable
expectation of privacy that that's not going to happen.
JUSTICE ALITO: You draw a distinction
between dogs that are not drug detection dogs and
ordinary dogs. Would you draw the same distinction
between a police officer who is not expert at detecting
the smell of methamphetamine and a police officer who is
expert at detecting the smell of that drug?
MR. BLUMBERG: In terms of the right of that
officer to come up to the house and knock on the front
door?
JUSTICE ALITO: To knock on the front door,
yes.
MR. BLUMBERG: No, there -- there wouldn't
be any distinction to that. You impliedly consent and
you have no reasonable expectation of privacy that any
type of police officer is going to come and knock on
your front door and try and talk to you.
JUSTICE BREYER: Not a police officer. If
we start -- policemen have to know how to behave. And
in this area, they can behave the same way as other
people can behave, and we expect them to behave, even
though their motive differs. They're always trying to
find crime. That's what I thought the law was.
I've been trying to figure out just what you
say, but in a slightly different form. Do people come
up to the door with dogs? Yes. Do the dogs breathe?
Yes.
Do in fact policemen, like other people,
come up and breathe? Yes. Do we expect it? Yes, we
expect people to come up and breathe. But do we expect
them to do what happened here? And at that point, I get
into the question: What happened here? And I'd be
interested in your view on that.
MR. BLUMBERG: And -- and just to clear up
the factual, I don't believe that -- that what happened
here in terms of the use of the drug detection dog took
5 to 15 minutes. It didn't take 5 to 15 minutes. It
certainly took, I would say, at least 1 or 2 minutes,
because what happened -- and again, this is on 96, 97
and 98 -- the officer goes from the street over the
curb, up to the front door of the house, with the dog
basically dragging him up to the front door of the
house.
They go up this walkway -- and a picture of
the home is -- is in the appendix to the brief -- and
then the dog crosses the -- into the alcove, the area
right in front of the house. And once he gets in that
area, the dog starts violently bracketing back and
forth, pulling on the leash. The dog handler testified
that the other officer had to stay back, because it was
so violent that people could get knocked down by what's
happening.
And for a period of time the dog goes back
and forth, back and forth, and then at some point goes
to the crack on the bottom of the front door, sniffs
that, and then the process finally stops, he sits down.
So that's factually what happened.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Blumberg, the
Florida appellate court, yes, the court of appeals, did
say that that the officer and the dog were lawfully
present. But you say you didn't make that concession.
MR. BLUMBERG: Well, that's -- I did not
make that concession and -- no, I certainly did not
concede that, but the court found that. And that's the
point I wanted to make. The courts, both courts in
Florida, squarely addressed that issue, Justice
Ginsburg. There is a whole section in the opinion in
the Third District Court of Appeals saying the officer
and the dog were lawfully present. They didn't -- that
section doesn't go, defense counsel concedes that issue.
That -- that issue -- that part of the opinion goes: We
find that the officer and the dog were lawfully present.
So it's squarely before this Court.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, don't we have to
accept that? Don't we have to accept that as a
statement of Florida law?
MR. BLUMBERG: I'm sorry. I didn't hear the
beginning of your --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do we not have to accept
that as a statement of Florida law?
MR. BLUMBERG: No.
JUSTICE ALITO: No?
MR. BLUMBERG: The issue is whether or not
that's a violation of the Fourth Amendment. And -- and
just because the Third District Court of Appeal found --
that's -- that's what's before the Court today. That's
why the issue is squarely before the Court.
The Third District Court of Appeal decided
the officer had the right to go up and be there on the
front porch with the dog. The Florida Supreme Court
disagreed. There is a passage in the decision of the
Florida Supreme Court that says an officer going up to
the door -- can go up to the door and do a knock and
talk, but when the officer goes up with a narcotics
detection dog, that is a qualitatively different matter.
So that issue is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe this is the
same question Justice Alito asked earlier, but people
have different senses of smell. So what if there is
some person who has, you know, the best sense of smell
in the department, and they say, well, let's use him to
go do the knock and talks when we suspect drugs; that
way, he may discover the odor of marijuana when other
people wouldn't. Is it -- is it -- is it wrong for them
to select the person with the best sense of smell to do
that?
MR. BLUMBERG: I think that would lead more
to a determination that there was a trespass because
they selected the officer who had the best sense of
smell to go up to that door. So they weren't
really going up there to do a knock --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To do a knock and
talk. You said knock and talks are okay.
MR. BLUMBERG: Well, but there's -- knock
and talks are okay; but, under your hypothet, it appears
that the knock and talk was -- was not really what the
officer was going up there for. They picked the officer
with the best sense of --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're on a really
slippery slope with that answer. There's dual motives
in everything police officers do.
MR. BLUMBERG: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They knock to hope the
person comes to the door and that they can see something
from the door. They knock -- they always have a dual
motive. So you're suggesting what?
MR. BLUMBERG: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In terms of our rule --
MR. BLUMBERG: I don't --
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- that if they select
somebody with a sense of smell because they have gotten
a tip of drugs in a house, that we give up, in that
situation, the assumption that they went to investigate?
MR. BLUMBERG: No. But the rule I'm asking
this Court to adopt does not rely on the subjective
intent of the police officer. The rule I'm asking this
Court to adopt --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He knocks, and he says
to the neighbor, who are you? I've gotten a report, and
I'm smelling drugs, so I know you have drugs in there.
MR. BLUMBERG: That -- that would be fine.
That would be -- that would be plain smell in that. But
if --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But if he smells first
and asks the question second, that's not okay?
MR. BLUMBERG: No, no. What's not okay is
if he goes up there to perform a search, or if he
conducts a search -- and, again, back to the facts of
this case, when a police officer goes up to the front
door with a narcotics detection dog, there is no
question what that officer is doing. That officer is
performing a search. And, therefore, if you go to
Jones, the officer and the dog have entered -- have
physically trespassed, because there is no consent to do
that, onto a constitutionally protected area, the
curtilage of the home, and performed a search.
If you just -- you follow the test set forth
in Jones and apply it to what happened here and the
question presented here, it is a trespass.
JUSTICE ALITO: I thought the reason -- I
thought the rationale in Jones, what Jones added, was
that it is a search if it was a trespass.
MR. BLUMBERG: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: And so I come back to the
very first question I asked you, do you have any
authority for the proposition that this would be a
trespass? Any case that says this is -- any trespass
case in the last five hundred years in any
English-speaking country?
MR. BLUMBERG: I don't believe any court has
faced this issue as to whether or not taking a police
dog up to the front door of a house is a trespass under
the common law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. BLUMBERG: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Garre, you have
three minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Your Honor.
First, with the question of how long they
were at the scene, the record says that they were at the
scene for five to ten minutes. That's -- that includes
in the car; walking up to the door, which my friend
conceded was a minute or two; and, then back in the car
and leaving.
With respect to the bracketing, bracketing
just means that the dog is getting excited, moving his
head around. This is a passive alert dog. They get a
little bit excited and then sit down. It's no different
than what a neighbor's dog would do when they get to the
front door.
Second, with respect to state law, we do
think it's important. And Florida has a decision, State
v. --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought what the dog
does, according to the police officer's testimony, is he
gave him a long leash so the dog would lead him to the
drugs. And what the dog did, I thought, according to
what I read, was go past the motorcycle to make sure --
I mean, the officer said this -- you don't know if the
drugs are in the motorcycle, you don't know if they're
in the garage, you don't know where they might be. So
the dog is permitted to roam around until he catches the
scent. Is that accurate?
MR. GARRE: Yes. They're walking up the
common path, and you can see it from the picture at
the -- appended to the brief, and then up to the front
door. It's near the front door where he alerted by
sitting down.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the point is that
he's sniffing all the way around to see --
MR. GARRE: He's sniffing; he's breathing.
That's right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes.
MR. GARRE: With respect to state law,
State v. Morsman, 394 So.2d 408 at 409, this was a case
that came up during oral argument in the Supreme Court.
It says that, under Florida law, there is no reasonable
expectation of privacy in a porch, taking into account
that visitors and salesmen can come up to the front
door. And I think that that's pertinent here.
Justice Kennedy, if you don't like the
contraband rationale, then I hope you would consider the
knowingly exposed to the public rationale.
Here, the record does show that they -- drug
houses do vent the stuff outside. It's page A-48 of the
joint appendix. That's in the warrant, where they talk
about what the air conditioning unit does to the scent
of marijuana in the house.
We know that they knew about that because
Officer Bartelt came across the moth balls -- that's on
page 100 of the joint appendix -- outside of the house.
The mothballs were outside of the house, which means --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But I think, Mr. Garre, that
the --
MR. GARRE: -- which means that they knew
that the odors were outside the house.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I think, Mr. Garre, that you
have to concede that this is a case about police use --
call it a technology, call it whatever you want to call
it -- of something that enhances what normal people can
sense. And then the question becomes, do you have a
reasonable expectation of privacy in, basically, people
just having their normal senses, rather than some
technique or method or technology that enhances those
senses?
So that your implied consent or expectations
about your neighbor might differ fundamentally, you
know, if the neighbor comes and knocks on your door, or
if the neighbor brings his magnifying glass and his
microscope and everything else and starts testing
everything around it.
You might say, no, that's -- I'm -- I'm not
there for that.
MR. GARRE: Well, and I think that gets back
to our point that this is a dog that's been used by
humans for centuries by scent. And in that respect,
it's quite different than the helicopter that was used
for aerial surveillance in Florida v. Reilly.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:05 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
66:20 15:23 17:2,3 appears 41:5 authority 62:20 57:14 62:24
55:7,7 alerts 17:3 45:15 appended 64:12 47:6,16 better 18:25
44:3 38:3,9,12 39:5 57:24 65:7,12 a.m 1:13 3:2 6:13 10:25
59:4,4,8 43:8,11,18 apply 16:19 66:19 11:1 12:6,14
48:8,16 appreciate 36:5 B bit 63:19
32:21
62:14,18 21:24 22:3,17 30:18 37:20 48:1,2,3,11,21
55:19 area 16:14 37:12 48:20 53:14 34:19 35:4
8:23 9:23 62:9 66:10 2:10 31:12,13
47:18 15:4 31:19,22 2:2,5,9,12 3:3 Ball 42:24 43:22 34:15,17,23
analyze 48:12 arose 23:6 basic 17:15 41:13,17,20
animals 8:20 asking 54:3 46:19 57:21 44:8,17 45:2,5
20:6 apartment 5:7 36:12,21 38:13 56:23,24,25,25 53:5,8,20 54:4
35:4 9:5,8 22:10 assumption 8:17 behavior 29:8 54:6,11,22
Appeal 59:14,17 61:12 51:11,19,23 55:7,15,24
60:11 27:19 28:6 9:7,14 10:2 41:2,4 concentrate
61:1,6,8 call 26:6 65:20 33:2,9,16 34:5 combat 9:20 32:2
65:20,20 34:7 47:15 combatting 5:17 concentration
63:4 called 6:4 16:25 55:8,25 57:17 come 4:24 6:1 13:21
44:23 car 5:25 14:2 challenged 6:22 11:15,15 15:5 21:15 53:15
63:13,14 changes 8:14 54:18,25 56:13 38:14
40:21 case 3:4,25 4:6,8 Chief 3:3,8 62:18 64:25 34:19 35:4
63:16,16 4:16 6:19 7:3 14:25 20:12,14 comes 4:15 6:19 conditioning
17:10,25 19:13 30:20 31:3,10 21:22 38:2 65:8
23:14,21 24:6 35:12,15,22 61:3 66:4 44:15 54:18
12:2,11 32:21 37:16 42:16,20 43:4 11:23 12:13,22 44:18 52:5
13:6,10 38:9,11,12 44:20 45:2,3 13:15 14:22 conducts 62:2
29:12 45:25 46:23,24 45:12,20 46:1 32:11 35:10 confidential
38:13,23 46:25 47:1 46:11,14 51:10 36:6 38:24 54:1
40:21 48:8,11 50:17 52:7,11,23 40:1 48:20,25 confusing 30:5
51:8 50:18,23 51:9 60:1,16 63:3,5 49:2,6 50:20 consent 7:18,23
52:15 51:16 52:8,9 66:15,17 committed 8:8,17,19,24
53:24 62:3,21 child 22:7 33:15 9:1 10:15 13:3
57:24 cases 3:10 23:6 circular 3:23 64:11 49:4 54:12,21
25:10,10 28:6 4:18 24:2 community 5:16 54:22,23 55:5
37:21 42:5 circumstances 49:13 56:18 62:8
cause 15:7,10 cited 24:17 conceal 36:1 consider 42:1
38:4 46:4 cites 31:7,7 41:14,17 58:18 considered
16:23 17:24 clear 26:18 conceded 7:3 considering
66:12 42:5 57:13 20:24 21:13 constitute 46:4
23:12,17 53:8 close 45:6 concedes 58:24 12:9
25:6 certainly 8:22 Cockapoo 40:25 conceding 54:9 constitutionally
37:12 20:1,19,24,25 54:24 detection 3:16 doctrine 49:3
62:9 21:1,1,7,8,9,12 cute 41:6 18:13 19:18 doctrines 49:16
44:11 23:8,13 24:5 D 46:10 55:8 4:7 5:3,6 6:16
4:1 27:15,19,23 dead 44:23 Detective 34:24 8:15,18 9:8,13
5:3 28:2,6,9 29:22 dealers 9:24 50:25,25 9:16 10:7 13:3
8:4 14:21 29:25 31:16 dealing 5:5 detects 22:19 13:13,13,17,18
21:6 39:19,25 40:4 24:14 determination 14:1,6 15:4,9
23:18,25 40:6 43:16 dealt 23:8,10 60:12 15:11,12,14
53:16 58:13,13 decide 23:13 determining 17:3,25 19:18
58:18,22 59:2 decided 59:17 52:1 20:9,22 21:5,5
59:14,15,16,17 decision 15:8 deterred 32:1 21:9,23 22:9
28:13 59:19,21 61:14 24:23 26:21 differ 66:3 22:14,18 23:10
32:5 61:16 62:24 59:20 63:23 difference 12:10 23:17 25:21
56:1 64:22 decisions 32:18 17:16 33:1 28:19,20 29:1
courts 6:21 23:7 45:5 40:7,18,19 29:16,18,23
Court's 20:21 defendant's 5:25 17:9 30:22,23 31:18
33:2 crack 58:9 defense 26:18 49:7 57:4 38:2,3,24 39:8
50:4,5 cracks 42:15 27:2 58:24 59:24 60:3 39:9,20 40:1,7
54:14 crevices 42:15 definition 48:13 63:19 66:13 40:18,19,20,23
54:18 42:12 43:4 discover 60:7 46:15,15,16
crosses 57:25 describe 28:25 26:17 54:4,5 55:5,8
27:2 culprits 18:10 detached 24:8 dissent 21:16 55:25 56:1
31:10 curb 14:2 57:20 detail 32:19 distance 6:11 57:15,20,25
63:3 curiae 1:19 2:7 details 31:20,23 33:19 58:2,3,7,14,23
20:16 32:7 35:20 distinct 20:4 59:1,19,24
curtilage 6:4,12 detect 5:3 6:25 distinction 63:18,20,25
26:11 37:12 44:5 21:6 36:15 41:12 56:6,8 dogs 5:22 8:20
52:9 53:3,6,10 47:14,18 55:21 56:18 8:23 9:5,19,21
custom 49:4 detected 36:11 23:14 14:24 16:23
6:19 54:23 detecting 8:12 District 58:22 17:24 18:4,9
19:24 customary 49:5 14:24 56:9,11 59:14,17 18:14,16,21,24
28:15 doors 5:12 entry 39:13 46:6 56:5,19 64:24 finding 4:25
doubt 19:9 48:14 65:23 23:15 27:13
55:19,19 dragging 57:21 epidemic 5:18 expectations finds 31:1
57:5,5 draw 56:6,8 equally 32:4 14:9 24:25 fine 23:24 24:11
drop 42:23 44:21 expects 29:3 45:11 61:20
31:23 drug 3:16 5:5 2:3,6,10,13 56:11 13:16 16:20
40:20 8:12 9:24 establish 25:22 explains 28:22 20:21 28:14
43:18 18:12 19:16,17 32:18 44:7 expose 19:25 31:20,25 37:3
62:5 26:5 56:7,11 45:6 exposed 19:17 39:18 45:25
drugs 5:20 7:17 37:22 65:4 63:10
8:21 9:10 14:11,15 17:4 et 29:16 exposing 36:3 five 62:22 63:12
10:6,7 18:19 26:25 ether 26:4,8,19 extended 13:19 Florida 1:3,22
36:17 60:6 26:25 27:7,13 extends 7:14 3:4 19:13,15
61:11,19,19 everybody extent 36:6 20:1 21:9,12
13:4 64:3,6 25:11 48:22 extraordinary 21:15 30:1
15:5,18 dual 60:24 61:4 evidence 4:25 18:5 39:24 53:16
17:5 D.C 1:8,15,18 5:13 26:7,15 eyes 45:7 58:13,20 59:5
21:5,20 27:10 36:25 59:9,19,21
22:3 E 41:11 F 63:23 64:23
28:21 E 2:1 3:1,1 exact 17:2 faced 62:25 66:14
30:6,16 earlier 60:2 exactly 31:22 fact 18:18 27:3 fly 19:16
31:18 easier 46:23,24 38:20 40:7 34:11,21 36:5 folks 28:12
37:10,18 either 20:8 43:18 51:17 57:7 follow 30:3
39:9 electricity 14:12 example 11:6 factory 26:24 62:11
40:2,11 elements 52:1,5 excited 63:17,19 facts 28:14 47:1 foolishly 33:17
41:2,25 else's 37:23 exists 48:24 53:24 62:2 Forget 12:25
42:11,13 emitting 36:10 expect 11:14,16 factual 57:14 form 43:25 57:4
44:14 emphasized 54:24 56:25 factually 58:11 forth 13:14,19
45:7,16 3:12,16 57:8,9,9 fair 10:4 13:20 58:3,8,8
48:4,12 enforcement expectation 3:18 falls 4:2,3 25:12 62:11
49:2 17:20 18:6 4:9,11,14,19 familiar 28:22 found 14:17
52:18,21 engage 50:4 4:24 7:15 far 25:10 32:17 21:9 58:18
53:11,11 53:12 54:13 11:13 12:13 39:6 59:14
54:2 engaging 54:18 19:23 20:8 feet 45:15 founding 18:15
England 37:16 21:14 23:18,22 fell 24:18 Fourth 15:4
English-speak... 24:16 25:4,7 fence 9:21 31:18,22 37:10
56:14 62:23 25:16,19 28:10 figure 13:14,20 38:5 42:5 47:6
57:5 enhance 18:23 28:12 35:14,16 57:3 52:3 59:13
58:9 enhanced 19:10 35:17,19 36:8 finally 58:10 frankly 50:16
60:14 enhances 65:21 36:9 38:16,19 find 3:22 5:12 Franky 15:22
62:4 65:25 38:21 39:2,7 8:4 18:10,22 17:16,19,23
enter 44:4 40:4 49:9,14 30:24 31:4 18:3 41:5
65:1 entered 62:7 49:17 50:10,16 32:7,13 36:14 Franky's 16:20
entitled 6:7,11 50:18 51:3 51:6 57:2 59:1 freely 9:5
8:23 17:17,22 18:12 20:10 H 52:10,22 53:12
10:13 18:20,25 19:5 goes 13:13 32:8 handler 34:24 57:24 62:10
19:9 20:13 32:17 42:14,17 58:3 homeowner
14:4,18 22:9 23:20 43:7,8,11,13 happen 18:2 7:15 11:13
17:5 55:9 63:5,7,9 43:13,20,21 56:5 12:19,21 29:3
21:19,24 64:10,17,20 44:22,24 45:7 happened 12:1 38:8,15 39:8
22:3,18 65:14,16,18 45:13 49:23 13:6,10 28:1 40:2 48:15,19
30:15 66:10,16 57:19 58:7,8 29:17 39:10 49:1,1,23 50:1
34:25 Garre's 35:3 58:25 59:23 57:10,11,14,18 50:3,14,19
38:4 gate 6:12 30:15 62:1,3 58:11 62:12 56:4
40:2 gates 6:2 going 4:23,24 happening homeowners
42:13 gather 5:8 7:17 9:11 14:10,21 22:20 5:25 9:4,19
45:7 general 1:18 10:19 11:3 28:9 56:3 58:6 homes 9:6
47:2 16:16 49:14 13:19 14:2,20 happens 14:7 Honor 4:16,21
generally 23:22 16:3,10 18:1 29:24 5:10,24 6:14
getting 63:17 18:14 22:13 harder 50:17 6:18 7:13 9:8
54:12 Ginsburg 5:1,21 23:24 25:20 hate 24:4 9:15 10:1,9,19
55:1 7:22 8:5,11 28:23 35:20 head 63:18 11:19 12:20
56:13,15 18:7 21:3 22:1 36:6 37:6 hear 3:3 49:24 13:2,25 15:19
57:20,21 22:8,15,23 38:24 41:18 59:6 17:7,22 27:2
59:19 23:8 39:16,24 42:3,10,11,23 heard 51:14 63:9 66:16
63:1,21 55:20,23 58:12 43:5,6 44:12 hearing 27:6 hope 5:12 11:7,7
58:21 44:13,15 47:2 37:1 61:2 65:3
give 8:19 21:7 gotten 61:10,18 held 3:11 19:24 house 5:22,25
given 39:25 22:25 27:9,11 helicopter 19:16 7:7,14,20 8:4
63:7 9:10 13:17 greatest 13:21 hesitation 35:1 22:15,16 25:15
3:5,6,8 36:15 37:5,19 ground 15:8 home 3:22 4:8 31:18 32:9
5:1 39:5 43:19 grow 5:18 20:4 4:10,13,22 34:20 35:5,11
6:9,14 45:14 46:5 20:7 11:14 14:20 35:21 36:3,7
7:9,12 8:5 51:17 53:3,10 growing 5:20 16:12 19:25 36:14 37:10,18
9:2,7 53:14 54:12 14:11 34:12 22:23,24 23:11 38:4 45:7
10:1,9 57:23 58:24 53:25 23:15 25:19,20 46:16 47:19
11:1,5 59:18,22 60:6 guess 36:4 55:3 26:3 31:21,24 48:4,12,21
60:14 62:6 guilty 33:14 32:11,25 33:7 51:13 53:25
13:2,9 64:4 gun 4:2,3 33:16,21,23,24 54:14 55:17
57:20,22 impossible 20:7 29:25 23:8,19 24:4 31:13
61:11 34:14 invented 16:25 24:11,13 25:9 KAGAN 13:8
65:9,12 impression 24:5 investigate 25:18,24 26:1 13:12 16:9,24
include 10:16 61:12 26:22 27:24,25 17:15,18 26:1
14:10,11 incorrect 37:4 invite 10:8 13:1 30:3,4,12,20 40:9,16 41:8
27:4 incriminating invited 9:12 31:3,7,10,12 61:9 65:14,18
65:6 54:20 involves 28:21 31:15,25 32:23 Kagan's 42:3
31:13 indicated 49:8 23:13 58:20,24 34:5,10,16,22 27:3
individual 31:21 item 23:9 26:4,6 37:14,24 38:3 31:21,24 32:19
31:24 32:19,25 i.e 14:1 38:9,12,13,23 32:25 33:16
informant 54:1 J 40:9,16,21 36:13
16:12 27:12,17 Jacobsen 24:17 43:4,8,11,18 24:11,13 25:9
39:25 infringed 38:17 25:11 45:3,12,20 31:25 32:23
55:25 inquiry 49:9 Jardines 1:6 3:4 46:1,11,14,22 33:4,11 37:6
inside 6:12 JOELIS 1:6 47:3,12,13,20 49:7,19 50:6
35:20 65:12 48:18,23 49:7 65:2
intent 42:6 judgment 15:6 53:2,6,14,23 17:19 39:7
8:16,19 interest 3:21 4:3 8:25 9:4,11,22 60:16,23 61:2 knock 5:12 6:25
9:1 10:15 32:5 9:24 10:4,15 61:7,9,17,23 7:20 9:12,17
48:16,18 interested 57:12 10:22 11:2,12 62:14,18 63:3 10:5,14,23
49:4 interests 27:21 11:20,23 12:2 63:5,25 64:15 11:15 16:7
53:3 27:22 12:11,12,21 64:19 65:2,14 21:20 29:5
55:5 interfered 38:17 13:6,8,10,12 65:18 66:15,17 40:1,14 41:24
interior 16:12 14:25 15:16,25 justices 22:21 44:13 45:8,11
intrusion 16:14 16:9,24 17:15 23:2 53:9,10,11,21
intrusive 5:2 19:2,6 20:12 56:13,15,20
63:23 11:11 15:13,14 22:1,8,15,23 K 1:21 2:10 60:16,17,18,20
26:23 27:4,7 28:5,5 49:4 masking 19:22 34:22,23 35:8
lawfully 6:20 looking 11:13 14:5 22:5,6 36:22 65:13
40:14
22:13 15:13 18:18 66:20 motive 51:13
59:1 49:13 5:2 9:5 11:18 motives 60:24
lead 60:11 64:2 51:12 16:24 22:3 64:6
19:20,21 leash 8:9,19 lost 22:7 25:8 26:23 moving 63:17
20:5 9:16 13:4,13 lot 4:23 15:1,1 30:7 38:14 murder 33:15
28:6,20 38:3 39:9 58:3 19:14 50:19 41:17 42:18,21
36:19,19 64:2 55:18 52:15 64:5 N
40:24 leave 6:8 loud 12:25 means 7:6 34:13 N 2:1,1 3:1
42:24 leaves 33:17 luggage 23:9 63:17 65:13,16 name 3:25
51:15 leaving 14:3,5 lying 33:19 met 30:15 narcotic 15:24
60:4 63:15 meth 17:4 narcotics 31:17
64:5,6,7 left 34:3 M methampheta... 31:23 37:9
66:4 legitimate 3:17 machine 16:25 56:10 46:9 55:8
33:23,25 25:4,6,15 18:22 Miami 1:22 naturally 45:9
36:2 65:4 27:22 28:10 magistrate 24:9 microphone nature 3:14
50:20 30:19 making 15:6 49:21 need 4:18 14:12
23:14,16 letting 35:23 27:9 50:19 mike 50:7 20:7 24:15
let's 45:12 54:5 man 20:9 mind 14:9 42:13 25:3,19
44:8,17 line 55:3 manufacture 14:6 15:2,2 9:18
little 16:25 30:5 26:5 29:2,12,15 neighbors 9:16
17:19 lived 8:18 19:17,18 20:5 misguided 41:14 neutral 24:9
39:7 lives 32:8 34:8,12,19 mistakenly never 44:11
53:22 logical 10:5 35:5,17 36:9 33:17 nice 32:10
59:5,9 long 8:8 11:14 42:25 43:14 morning 3:4 NICOLE 1:17
64:20 13:13 63:10 44:25 50:20 Morsman 64:21 2:6 20:15
64:2 53:25 60:7 moth 65:11 noises 13:1
26:19,22 19:1,12 23:6 mask 35:10 15:2 19:22,22 50:24 65:21,24
53:10,17,20 ordinary 29:3 people's 24:24 24:23 25:5
57:19 ought 37:5 perform 40:14 plain 24:19
62:7 64:5 43:16 62:6 31:16
10:24 19:15 package 24:18 permissible 26:13 31:5
19:18 28:7 33:25 park 32:11 39:8 48:3,25 police 5:3,11,17
30:24 okay 22:24,25 parked 30:18 49:2 50:21 6:6,19,24,24
35:10,18 25:25 35:12 part 16:17,18 53:12 54:13 8:2,2 10:12,20
40:9 41:16 40:14 52:20 60:4,9 61:3 10:22,24 11:5
45:4 44:25 45:16,20 58:25 person's 15:18 15:20 16:1
45:21 60:17,19 particular 42:6 38:4 51:17 17:1,4 21:4,19
65:17 old 55:23 partner 49:24 petition 21:16 23:23 24:8
8:2,3 58:1 passive 63:18 Petitioner 1:4 31:17,20 32:5
11:6 opaque 36:19 path 10:13 1:16,20 2:4,8 32:18 33:2,4,5
12:7 open 6:8 33:18 22:18 64:11 2:14 3:7 20:17 33:21 37:2,8
15:20 34:4 44:23 Pedraja 7:1 11:9 63:8 40:10,13,15
17:1,5 54:14 12:8 14:17 photography 41:3 45:6,14
20:22 operating 26:24 people 6:1 7:19 27:4 46:19,25 47:25
22:4 opinion 24:14 10:5 11:15 physical 11:11 48:20 50:9,11
28:25 44:18 58:21,25 12:13 13:1 15:13,14 16:13 50:12 51:12,17
30:17 opponents 38:20 14:11,15 19:20 29:24 37:11 53:10,17,20
33:2,4 39:10 19:23 20:4 52:2,3 54:11,12,17,24
39:19,25 opposition 29:3 32:6,14 physically 14:10 55:12 56:9,10
41:3 21:18 36:25 47:7,21 51:18 62:8 56:20,22 60:25
42:6 oral 1:11 2:2,5,9 47:23 49:5,5 picked 60:21 61:15 62:3,25
43:17 3:6 20:15 52:12,13 53:4 picture 57:23 64:1 65:19
21:12 26:18 54:16,21,24 64:11 policeman 7:23
45:6,23 27:3 31:13 55:18,19 56:25 pictures 41:5 29:8 33:19
50:4 64:22 57:4,7,9 58:5 piece 23:9 46:2,6,9 49:23
order 14:13 60:2,8 65:21 place 9:8 20:23 Policeman's
43:22 34:11,14 38:2 put 8:22 9:25 reason 8:3 10:10 resident's 39:2
39:13 48:14 13:13 18:23 24:23 31:25 resolve 20:3
57:7 15:10 24:9 51:18 44:12 62:14 23:5,24
41:7,12 problem 40:11 21:14 23:18,22 25:7 27:1 28:4
64:24 40:17 Q 24:24 25:25 28:13 41:14
21:21 39:13 44:13 37:25 38:1,18 reasons 17:23 21:13,19 31:14
20:9 49:6 55:6 50:23 56:2,3 REBUTTAL 39:1,11,12
58:15,23 proposition 3:20 57:11 60:2 2:12 63:7 42:3
9:3 32:3,20 61:24 62:5,13 recognize 18:8 responses 5:14
62:13 protect 36:17 65:22 13:18,23 14:1 restraints 23:4
protected 16:14 22:2 33:3 54:3 34:18 36:25 return 41:20
7:6,16 public 1:21 4:14 20:1 34:8 reveals 3:16
19:24 14:15 16:16 R 66:14 32:18
21:14 19:25 29:19 R 3:1 relevance 47:3 right 3:25 6:3,8
24:16,25 33:24 36:14 radio 49:22 relevant 44:11 6:9,16,16 8:13
28:10 65:4 raised 22:2 44:11 10:25 15:11,18
35:14,17 pulling 58:3 rationale 17:8 rely 36:1 61:14 18:13 19:1
36:8 pumped 19:19 24:23 62:15 remaining 63:6 20:20 29:14
38:16,21 20:5 65:3,4 repeated 32:16 30:22,25 33:17
40:4 purpose 7:24 read 13:18 repeatedly 35:23 38:25
8:14 11:2,5 16:10 17:12 43:17 40:12 44:2
51:3 18:8 21:5 22:3 30:9 64:4 report 15:21 45:1,13,16
64:24 22:5 44:18 reading 13:22 16:7 61:18 48:17 52:24
45:11 47:16 really 14:20 representation 53:24 54:2,8
31:21 52:4 29:3 36:24 resent 12:19,21 59:18 61:1
32:19,25 purposes 18:6 37:24 40:22 reserve 20:11 64:18
34:6,9 18:13 60:15,20,23 residents 6:8 Ripper 18:16
20:12,14 says 9:25 13:9 37:7,7 61:24 sidewalk 45:13 15:12,21 17:25
38:9 39:5,7,10 63:22 45:15 46:3 23:10,17 24:8
48:9,11 52:1 seconds 13:5 52:12,17,19 25:21 28:19,20
59:21 61:17 14:5 30:11 sight 44:21 29:10,17 30:6
42:4,9 62:21 63:11 31:1,4 sign 6:2 8:23 30:6,7,10,16
43:4 64:23 section 58:21,24 9:25 10:13 39:9 40:23
45:3,12 Scalia 6:3,10,15 see 6:10 32:11 similar 49:15,16 42:11 43:5,6,7
46:1,11 7:2,11 10:22 52:16 61:3 simple 40:22 43:12,20 45:14
52:7,11 11:2 12:12 64:11,16 simply 24:16 sniffing 12:2,24
60:1,16 15:16,25 33:13 seeks 31:21,24 33:12 12:25 14:4
66:15 33:25 34:5,10 32:19,25 single 37:16 15:16,17,18
34:16,22 41:13 sees 33:20 44:23 sit 11:16 30:6,6 29:18 30:25
44:9 46:22 seized 23:9,11 sits 31:2 40:23 64:16,17
40:25 select 60:9 61:9 situation 33:22 society 23:22
20:14,15 Scout 8:1,6 65:22 29:21 34:19 53:11 59:6
21:7 21:25 53:9 senses 12:5 35:1,4,5,10 SOTOMAYOR
23:2 Scouts 7:19 14:23 16:22 44:21 50:21,24 4:12,17 8:16
24:3,12 search 3:11 4:18 20:10 45:10,24 51:1 56:10,11 8:25 9:4,11,22
25:17 4:20,22 9:8 60:3 65:24 60:3,4,9,14 9:24 10:4,15
27:1 11:3,10 15:4,8 66:1 61:10,21 18:20 19:2,6
29:10,14 15:20,22 16:1 sense-enhanci... smelling 12:7 53:14,23 54:5
16:3,4,8,15 16:11 17:19 15:21 16:3 54:8 55:3,9
26:11 28:7,9 separate 21:20 61:19 60:23 61:2,7
43:3,14,16,23 serious 5:17 42:25 43:14 sounds 55:4
26:1 52:5,15 53:19 18:11 smoke 35:23 space 7:11
28:7 62:1,2,6,10,16 shape 43:25 36:1 specific 21:8
36:16 searching 43:9 show 65:5 smoking 4:2,3 23:13 31:9
substituting 40:2,15 41:24 things 17:3 41:2 47:6 58:7
sufficient 46:4 53:21 54:19 think 4:4,16 today 17:25
suggests 13:12 65:7 8:10,14 9:4,14 told 23:19 39:21
43:9 44:4 51:15 30:17 33:5 10:12,18,19 tort 39:14
66:6 supporting 1:19 talking 10:19 11:22,25,25 total 14:3
64:20 suppose 5:21,21 24:7,24 28:14 14:8 15:15,20 touches 26:13
33:13 40:20,22 35:16 40:21 16:5,11,17 townhouse
33:12 51:23 technique 65:25 19:11,13 20:3 47:21 48:1,3
suppress 37:1 technology 25:9 26:12 tracked 27:13
20:16 34:13 17:9,13,20 29:14 30:11,18 tracking 47:22
20:6 27:20 31:8 ten-minute 63:23 65:1,14 38:5,8 39:14
33:6 42:16 46:2,11 40:21 65:18 66:10 39:14 45:18,19
50:13 64:4 terms 3:12 5:19 thinking 14:8 46:16 48:5,12
surprised 51:9 19:4 49:5 22:7 48:13 52:2,3
45:4 suspect 54:17 test 62:11 thought 10:23 trespassed 62:8
60:6 testified 27:6 13:10,16 15:6 trick-or-treater
sweeping 10:17 testimony 64:1 42:9 47:3,8 7:20
24:25 T 20:13 31:10,11 63:25 64:3 9:17 11:12
43:20,21 T 2:1,1 63:3,4,9 66:15 thousands 47:15 15:19 17:13,22
51:13,24 take 22:9 28:13 66:16 three 3:10 52:5 44:10 47:9
29:2 30:20 thermal 46:20 63:6 try 25:22 32:13
taken 7:2 thing 6:4,15 43:12,13,22 56:21
25:24 33:2 46:19 32:10 38:5 35:25 51:6
19:15 20:1 28:20 34:5,6,8 24:19 25:16 47:24
58:19 33:7,12
28:14 values 49:13 23:3 worry 24:15 20 2:7
37:2 vantage 6:13 warrant 4:18,20 wouldn't 11:21
1:9
45:15
63:14 vent 65:6 25:20,23 46:5 56:17 60:8 3
write 24:14 3 2:4
56:20 57:12 1:15,18 44:3 60:8 31 1:9 2:11
X 4
43:5
59:13 7:12 9:9,20
x-ray 18:1 409 64:21
visible 4:1,6,13
29:6 Y
21:4 visitors 7:19 56:24 60:7
46:2 64:25 64:16
62:22 29:14 30:8,9
went 7:4 16:2
61:12 6
15:21 16:7 1 57:17
47:16
21:17
20:16 54:9,9 10,000 47:10,15
15:6
15:22 100 65:12 9
24:7,14
28:14
49:13
30:15 33:5 11-564 1:4 3:4 96-97 29:13
17:5 46:20 63:13 112 21:11 57:18
18:13
64:10 116 21:11 98 28:21 29:6
37:14
22:25 walks 30:22 120 21:11 57:19
57:15 40:10 41:2,23 willy-nilly 10:8 15 11:17,17
65:19 41:24 12:24 13:11
27:4 want 8:20 9:19 16 32:17
21:1 25:2 30:1 windows 43:10 17th 39:6
39:6 1700s 37:21
44:22
47:8,16,17
