IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
EDWARD DORSEY, SR., :
Petitioner : No. 11-5683
v. :
UNITED STATES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
and
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
COREY A. HILL, :
Petitioner : No. 11-5721
v. :
UNITED STATES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 17, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:19 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
STEPHEN E. EBERHARDT, ESQ., Tinley Park, Illinois; for
Petitioners.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
Respondent in support of Petitioners.
MIGUEL A. ESTRADA, ESQ., Washington, D.C.;
court-appointed amicus curiae, in support of the
judgments below.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
STEPHEN E. EBERHARDT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 4
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent
in support of the Petitioners 15
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MIGUEL A. ESTRADA, ESQ.
As the court-appointed amicus curiae, 31
in support of the judgments below
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
STEPHEN E. EBERHARDT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 56
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:19 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning in Case 11-5683, Dorsey v. United States,
and 11-5721, Hill v. United States.
Mr. Eberhardt.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN E. EBERHARDT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. EBERHARDT: Mr. Chief Justice, may it
please the Court:
The judges of the Seventh Circuit are
unanimous in their belief that this case raises a good
question. And, of course, that good question is: Why
would Congress want district courts to continue to
impose sentences that were universally viewed as unfair
and racially discriminatory?
My colleague sitting on the other side of
the podium, I submit to the Court, does not answer that
question. Petitioners feel that the answer to that
question can be found in the text of the Fair Sentencing
Act. And while we admit that there is no express
answer, the text gives us the required fair implication.
The text in section 8, the text in section
10 -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Is a fair
implication enough? You're talking here about a repeal,
essentially, of an earlier provision, section 109. And
our cases uniformly say that it -- it has to be clear
implication, unquestionable implication.
Do you think this is really clear and
unquestionable?
MR. EBERHARDT: No, it is not, but the
standard from this Court, Justice Scalia, is fair
implication, and it has been ever since Great -- the
Great Northern case. It -- the standards began -- I'm
sorry -- as a necessary implication in Great Northern,
moved to plain and clear implication in Hertz and
Woodman, and then Marrero, which is relied on heavily by
amicus.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course, the
statute itself says "express," right? Talking about
section 109.
MR. EBERHARDT: That is correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, we're pretty far
removed from the language of the statute, I guess.
MR. EBERHARDT: But, again, ever since 1908,
that's a standard that this Court has not accepted. And
this is based on the provision, the well-settled
provision, that an earlier Congress cannot bind a later
Congress.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, and I understand
that. But presumably -- we also have the proposition
that Congress, when it enacts legislation, knows the
law. They would have known section 109 required an
express statement if they wanted to apply the change
retroactively. So, why shouldn't we hold them to that
standard?
MR. EBERHARDT: The answer is no, I don't
believe that Congress felt that that was the standard.
Again relying on this Court's jurisprudence that said
you give us text and if we are able to find that the
fair implication and the intent of Congress through that
fair implication is that this new statute applies,
because an earlier Congress cannot bind the newer
Congress -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, on your statement
that the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did it -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- one Congress cannot
bind a later Congress, do you mean we're not supposed to
look at 109? We're not supposed to look at the
Dictionary Act?
MR. EBERHARDT: Oh, absolutely, the Court
is, Your Honor. And we acknowledge -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So, then -- so, then the
fact that 109 is on the books is relevant. And -- and
it's not a question of one Congress binding the other.
It's a question of what the second Congress did.
MR. EBERHARDT: Yes, 109 is relevant, but
it's the standard to be employed in determining whether
or not there's a fair implication of what the later
Congress meant.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm really troubled by
"fair implication" -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're right that if -
you're right -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How many -- how many cases
do you have that say "fair implication" as opposed to
quite a few that say "clear and unquestionable
implication"?
Marrero? Is that -- is that the one case
you rely on?
MR. EBERHARDT: Fair implication from
Marrero -
JUSTICE SCALIA: From a footnote in Marrero,
right?
MR. EBERHARDT: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. Anything else?
MR. EBERHARDT: Marcello.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Marcello? Where -- what's
the cite for that?
I mean, there are a lot of earlier cases
that make it clear when you're repealing a prior statute
if it isn't express, it has to be at least a clear
implication. And I'm -- I'm astounded to think that in
a footnote, we're suddenly going to change that to
simply "fair implication."
MR. EBERHARDT: Yes, Your Honor. You're
correct, a clear or a necessary, but Petitioners contend
that not only do we meet the fair implication
standard -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's a different
question. And we can talk about that. But how did
Marrero come out? Did it -- did it find an overruling
or not?
MR. EBERHARDT: Marrero primarily was based
on the fact that there was a specific provision for
nonretroactivity. In an alternate holding, the Court
held that 109 would also be relevant to the decision.
Marrero, though, was a habeas -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, it did not find 109
overcome by fair implication, right?
MR. EBERHARDT: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, it's entirely dictum,
right? And dictum in a footnote.
MR. EBERHARDT: No, I believe it is an
alternative holding, because the primary holding in -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought it was the other
way. The holding was that 109 governed. No?
MR. EBERHARDT: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought you said the
holding was that section 109 governed, that it had not
been repealed.
MR. EBERHARDT: 109 was the alternative
holding, saying that 109 would also preclude the
retroactivity provision.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly. And, therefore,
whatever it said about what is necessary for repeal of
109 was purely dictum, because it held that 109 was not
repealed. So, even if fair implication was the test, it
was not the test applied and determinative in the case.
So, it's dictum. And dictum in a footnote.
MR. EBERHARDT: I don't agree, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's true of all of
the cases that you -- the cases -- you pointed to two or
three that use "fair implication." The Court in all
those cases found that there was no fair implication, so
that 109 governed.
Isn't -- isn't that so?
That was true in Marrero. It was true in
Northern Securities.
MR. EBERHARDT: In Marrero, the primary
holding was based on the fact that there was a specific
provision for nonretroactivity.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in none of the cases
that used the fair implication language did the Court
say: And, therefore, the old statute no longer governs.
MR. EBERHARDT: Correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, you're relying on a
standard that this Court did -- must have considered
appropriate because it deviated from the words of the
statute. It said it a few times. But in application,
it always came out the same way.
MR. EBERHARDT: Well, in application, when
the Court applied this in Marcello, when they were
weighing the language of the Administrative Procedure
Act as opposed to the language of the Immigration and
Nationality Act, I think the Court made clear, as it
went through the statute there, that there was a fair
implication. And then once you get to the point of fair
implication, it necessarily means that there is some
kind of an ambiguity.
And then the Court followed up saying that
we then did look to the legislative history, and the
legislative history backs up the implication that we did
find.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that was not true of
the 109 cases. You don't have a 109 case that said the
standard is fair implication, and, therefore, the old
statute is not enforced.
MR. EBERHARDT: Directly? I don't believe
so.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think that if -
JUSTICE ALITO: What do -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think that if we
stick to the language of the statute, if we are, indeed,
looking for an express provision, do you agree that
there isn't any here?
MR. EBERHARDT: We agree there is no express
provision, but obviously, we also contend that going
back to the proposition that an earlier Congress cannot
bind a later, that that standard has been rejected even
though argued by my colleague to my left. That is no
longer the standard ever since -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I'm not sure he's
arguing that. I think he acknowledges, as our opinions
say, that it can be done by implication, but it has to
be clear and unmistakable implication. I think that's
the position he's taking.
Anyway, you want to tell me why this is
clear and unmistakable?
MR. EBERHARDT: When you look at the
language of section 8, when Congress has mandated the
Sentencing Commission to use their emergency authority
to achieve consistency with other guideline provisions
and applicable law, it makes clear that Congress meant
this needs to take effect as soon as possible. Congress
even said "as soon as practicable and no later than
90 days."
This would be meaningless, actually, with
regard to the individuals who were in this pipeline to
be sentenced, because there would be so few individuals
who would be arrested, charged, convicted, and sentenced
within that 90-day period that Congress could only -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, there might be a few,
but there -- but assume that you're drafting this
legislation and you want it to apply only to defendants
who commit an offense after the enactment of the Fair
Sentencing Act, but you also want to do everything that
you reasonably can to make sure that when the very first
one of those defendants comes up for sentencing, there
will be new sentencing guidelines in effect that are
geared to the new lower mandatory minimums rather than
the old sentencing guidelines in effect.
Would you not provide that the -- would you
not require the Sentencing Commission to act as quickly
as possible to get the new sentencing guidelines out?
MR. EBERHARDT: No.
JUSTICE ALITO: No?
MR. EBERHARDT: Because of the -
JUSTICE ALITO: You would say take your time
and it doesn't matter if a few -- a few defendants who
are -- who commit the offense after the enactment of the
Fair Sentencing Act come up and they are -- they're
subjected to the old soon-to-be-obsolete sentencing
guidelines?
MR. EBERHARDT: No. I think it's clear that
the average time from charging to sentencing is going to
be at least 11 months. In a case where a defendant goes
to trial, it's going to be much more than that. So,
there really need be no rush on the part of Congress to
condense this down into 90 days. They could go through
their usual 120-day -- or 180-day procedure, submit
these to Congress, wait for approval or disapproval, and
things like that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are we just supposed
to assume that Congress knows that? I mean, if you had
asked me how long is the usual time from conviction
or -- I mean, arrest to conviction, I wouldn't know if
it's closer to 90 days or 11 months.
MR. EBERHARDT: I think we do, Chief
Justice -- Mr. Chief Justice. We have to know that
Congress -- Congress knows that because these are the
individuals who drafted the Sentencing Reform Act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, right. But I
mean -- and we assume Congress knows the law. I don't
know that we can readily assume they know details such
as that and evaluate their -- what would your position
be if the Congress said do this as soon as practical
but, in any event, no later than 8 months from now?
Would we then think there's a fair implication that
Congress meant it to apply retroactively or not?
MR. EBERHARDT: On just the point of the
immediacy placed on by Congress, I think that would take
away from the fair implication that Congress meant that
it -- the law should go -- or the law should be
effective on the date of the President's signature.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why do you pick the date
that the Fair Sentencing Act went into effect, if it -
if what -- if the guidelines, the 90-day period that the
Commission came out with its new guidelines on
November 1st, that's some time after August 3rd, which
is when the Sentencing Act. So, on your theory, why
isn't the right date the date that the Sentencing
Guidelines went into effect?
MR. EBERHARDT: The correct date is the
August 3rd date, Your Honor, because of the intent of
Congress made known through the implication of the
language taken in the legal context of the Sentencing
Reform Act. When Congress meant to correct their error,
I believe they made it perfectly clear that they meant
to correct this error as soon as possible. This has
been an error that had been discussed for 25 years and
was finally trying to be corrected.
And, Mr. Chief Justice, if I might reserve
the rest of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. EBERHARDT: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Dreeben.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
IN SUPPORT OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Fair Sentencing Act manifests the
requisite fair and necessary implication that Congress
intended that its new mandatory minimum thresholds apply
in all sentencings after the date of the Act.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think it's a
clear and unmistakable implication -
MR. DREEBEN: First of all -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- if we're going to
argue about the language?
MR. DREEBEN: I do, Justice Sotomayor.
Although this Court has not used the words "clear and
unmistakable" to describe what it takes to overcome of
the presumption by section 109, it has used the
words -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, generally the word
"express" incorporates "clear."
MR. DREEBEN: There's no dispute here, I
don't think, that there's a -- a lack of an express
statement in the Act. But -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, that -- why doesn't
that defeat your case?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, as Justice Scalia
explained in his concurring opinion in
Lockhart v. United States, one Congress cannot impose
standards of how another Congress is to enact
legislation. The subsequent Congress is free to choose
how it will express its will in the language or
structure that it sees fit. And I'd like to give an
example -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, so then we -- we
ignore the Dictionary Act?
MR. DREEBEN: No, of course not,
Justice Kennedy. These -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And we ignore 109?
MR. DREEBEN: No. It provides a background
presumption that overcomes the common-law rule of
abatement, under which, if Congress had amended a
statute, all prosecutions under the prior statute would
be deemed to be a nullity and they would -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, why doesn't it -
why doesn't that bring us right back to what 109 says?
MR. DREEBEN: This Court has made clear in
not only the section 109 cases, but I think, as my
colleague mentioned in Marcello v. Bonds, that there are
no magical passwords that Congress has to use to explain
itself.
And let me give an example because I think
that it will help to put in focus why I think the Fair
Sentencing Act does contain the requisite implication.
If Congress had written in the Fair Sentencing Act,
henceforth, after the date of this Act, probation
officers shall prepare presentence reports and submit
them to courts in which they shall calculate the
mandatory minimum penalties under the standards
announced in this Act, I think this Court would draw the
structural inference that it did not intend that
probation officers prepare that information for nothing.
They intended that it be prepared so that sentencing
courts would use those new mandatory -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly, and I think we
would come out that way. I think you're entirely right.
But the accelerated -- the direction to the Guidelines
Commission to promulgate the guidelines on a -- on an
emergency basis is not, as you just put it, for nothing.
It has -
MR. DREEBEN: I agree with that,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: As Justice Alito was
suggesting -
MR. DREEBEN: No, I don't -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- it has some effect.
MR. DREEBEN: I don't disagree with that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, it -- it's not
comparable to what you've just said.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think it is because
there's a piece of the -- that -- that section that I'd
like to draw the Court's attention to, because I think
that it critically explains what the Sentencing
Commission was supposed to do. Section 8 is all over
the briefs, but I have it in the Government's gray brief
at page 10a.
This is the section that directs the
Sentencing Commission to promulgate new guidelines and
to exercise its emergency authority -- and I'm going to
quote here -- "to make such conforming amendments to the
Federal sentencing guidelines as the Commission deems
necessary to achieve consistency with other guidelines
provisions and" -- here's the critical phrase -
"applicable law."
That phrase, "applicable law," can only mean
sections 2 and 3 of the Fair Sentencing Act, which are
the provisions that increased the thresholds of
quantities necessary to trigger the mandatory minimum
sentences.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's fine. But it -
they apply that applicable law to those, as you say,
admittedly few people who have been prosecuted,
convicted, and are now being sentenced under that
applicable law.
MR. DREEBEN: But -
JUSTICE SCALIA: There may not be many of
them, but it does not -- it does not deprive that
language of all meaning.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Scalia, I want
to put this in the structural context of the Sentencing
Reform Act. The Sentencing Reform Act directs courts to
apply the version of the Sentencing Guidelines that is
in effect on the day of sentencing. It's not a time of
offense rule; it's a time of sentencing rule.
And there -- that means that everybody who
comes before the sentencing court after the date of the
Fair Sentencing Act when the new guidelines are in place
will have those guidelines applied to those defendants.
Those guidelines are supposed to be conformed to
applicable law. The only applicable law that there
could be is the new mandatory minimum standard.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, no, you're begging
the question. The -- the law applicable to pre- -
pre-statute offenses continues to be the prior law, and
the applicable law to offenses that have occurred after
the enactment date is the -
MR. DREEBEN: But that would mean,
Justice Scalia, that the guidelines would not be
conformed to applicable law for the defendants who are
sentenced after the FSA. They would be conformed to
inapplicable law. And Congress knew when it set up
section 3553(a) that the guidelines that would be
applied are the ones that are in force at the time of
sentencing.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, why -- why
90 days? I mean, the Commission basically just took the
ratio under the new Act and applied it, didn't they,
throughout? They took the mandatory minimum formula
that had been changed and changed it throughout the -
the sentencing provisions?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, it was a little bit more
complex than that, because what -- what the FSA did was
two things: It lowered the mandatory minimums by
increasing the crack thresholds, and it targeted role in
the offense of the defendant for increased sentencing
and mitigating factors for decreased sentencing. And
the Commission had to translate that into new
guidelines.
It acted quickly. It was told to act as
soon as practicable. It was entirely possible under the
statute, and probably would have been desired by
Congress, that new guidelines would have gone into
effect on August 4th. At that point, the only people in
front of the sentencing court would have been pre-FSA
offenders.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but how -- how many
are we talking about, say, a 3-month period? How
many people commit -- most people -- everybody pleads
guilty. They're caught quickly and sentenced quickly -
MR. DREEBEN: Not necessarily.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know not necessarily.
That's why I want your estimate of how many we're
talking about.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, roughly speaking, there
has historically been about 5,000 crack offenders a
year. So, that means that come -
JUSTICE BREYER: And how -- how long
historically, roughly, if you know, does it take from
the time the person's caught till the time he's
sentenced, when he pleads guilty?
MR. DREEBEN: We put in the brief the
figures from the Administrative Office of the U.S.
Courts, which indicate that the median figure is around
11 months, but -
JUSTICE BREYER: Eleven months?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: But how many of -- you see
what I'm trying to get at. I'm trying to get at a
guess, if you like, of how many people we're talking
about. The two numbers that I can't find in the briefs
are roughly -- if your opponent is correct, and it only
applies to new people, this thing. That's the
applicable law. In other words, you're assuming the
answer -- in your answer to Justice Scalia, you're
assuming the answer.
I haven't heard an argument for it, except
that there are very few people that his interpretation
or the opposite interpretation would catch. And how
many are there?
MR. DREEBEN: I'm reluctant to guess,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: About? I mean, is it more
like 10, or is it more like 50, is it more like 100?
Can you make a guess at all?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, let me put it this way,
Justice Breyer -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right -
MR. DREEBEN: I think that there -- there
will probably be thousands of crack defendants who will
be sentenced under the old mandatory minimums that
Congress repealed because they were perceived as being
racially disparate and unfair and -
JUSTICE BREYER: It isn't obvious to you
what I'm trying to get at.
MR. DREEBEN: Well -
JUSTICE BREYER: You -- you see what I'm
trying to get at? I guess -
MR. DREEBEN: I don't think that Congress
balanced numerically -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no.
MR. DREEBEN: -- the numbers -
JUSTICE BREYER: But you're saying it would
be absurd to think that this section 8 has to do only
with prior -- the pre-enactment offenses. Absurd, all
right? If there's just likely to be one person, I tend
to buy your absurdity argument. If there's likely to be
500 or 1,000, I'm much less certain.
MR. DREEBEN: I'm not making an absurdity
argument, Justice Breyer. The argument that I'm making
is that when Congress directed the Commission -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. DREEBEN: -- to conform the guidelines
to applicable law, the only applicable law that it could
have had in mind -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, that argument -- of
course, they could have had both in mind. They could
have had applicable law for the new people is our new
statute; applicable for the old people, you don't need
any amendment, we're not talking about that, just apply
the old law.
MR. DREEBEN: But they don't -
JUSTICE BREYER: That made perfect sense.
MR. DREEBEN: But the Sentencing Reform
Act -- it doesn't make perfect sense, because the
Sentencing Reform Act is set up to apply new guidelines
to people based on date of sentencing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: New guidelines to what
people? That's the issue.
MR. DREEBEN: Everyone.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If it's only new -- you're
begging the question again.
MR. DREEBEN: No, I don't believe so,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If it's -- if it's only to
people who have committed their offenses after that Act,
then you have one set of applicable guidelines for those
people, and you leave in effect, for people who
committed their offense before the -- the enactment
date, the prior guidelines. I don't think there's
anything necessarily implied by -- by this provision to
the effect that -
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Scalia -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- there is only in the
future one set of guidelines applied, you know, one
guideline fits all. I don't think that's -
MR. DREEBEN: Let me refer to the statute
because the statute answers this question differently
than the way Your Honor has assumed it works. Okay? On
page 30a of our appendix, we reproduce section 3553(a),
and 3353(a)(4) establishes that when a -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. 30a?
MR. DREEBEN: 30a -- I'm sorry, 39a.
JUSTICE SCALIA: 39a.
MR. DREEBEN: Sorry about that.
The -- the Sentencing Reform Act provides
that the applicable set of guidelines that will be
applied are those that are in effect on the date that
the defendant is sentenced. This is 3553(a)(4)(A)(ii).
And that provision has been in the Sentencing Reform Act
since the -- since the time the Sentencing Reform Act
was enacted. And Congress explained, for those who read
legislative history, that it wanted -- and I am going to
quote here from the legislative history: "The
guidelines and policy statements to be applied are those
in effect at the time of sentencing."
Congress's reason for that was it wanted the
most sophisticated statements available that will most
appropriately carry out the purposes of sentencing, and
to impose a sentence under outmoded guidelines will
foster irrationality in sentencing and would be contrary
to the goal of consistency in sentencing. So -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is section 3742(g),
which is -
MR. DREEBEN: That provides that if a case
is reversed on appeal and sent back for resentencing,
the original set of guidelines that were applied at the
date of the initial sentencing shall be used. It's an
exception to the general rule.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could I ask you this about
your argument? Because I do think the one you're
stressing now is a -- is a good argument and your best
one. But what troubles me is that an earlier bill, H.R.
265, which contained the provision that says "there
shall be no retroactive application of any portion of
this Act" contains the very language that you're
stressing now.
So, how do you reconcile that?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, first of all,
Justice Alito, what that bill would have done is
postpone the effective date for 180 days so that there
could be synchronicity between the guidelines and the
new mandatory minimums. The retroactivity that it was
concerned about would have reopened final sentences.
There's no question here about reopening final
sentences. So, that bill was explicit: We don't want
to reopen final sentences.
The Government is not asking for reopening
of final sentences.
JUSTICE ALITO: No, I understand that. But
wouldn't you want -- the problem that you're -- maybe --
I understand your argument to be that the language
you're stressing now will mean, if this applies only to
post-enactment offenders, that there will be defendants
who will be sentenced to -- under the -- under old -
under the old mandatory minimums but the new guidelines.
MR. DREEBEN: Correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: Would that not occur under
the -- clearly occur under H.R. 265?
MR. DREEBEN: No, I don't think so, because
that -- that bill was designed to postpone the effective
date for 180 days.
I think everyone in Congress understood that
these guidelines had undermined the credibility of the
criminal justice system for years. The Sentencing
Commission had four times submitted reports to Congress
that bemoaned the fact that they were not only
inconsistent with the purposes of -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. But I mean -- yes,
that's very nice, but let's talk about text, not what
about the emotions of Congress.
This section that you quoted, (a) -- what,
(4)(A)(ii) -
MR. DREEBEN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- of section 3553(a) -
MR. DREEBEN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that in the new statute?
MR. DREEBEN: No. That's part of the
Sentencing Reform Act from the beginning of the
guidelines. It was -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It was in effect -
MR. DREEBEN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It was not the amendment.
MR. DREEBEN: No. No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Congress didn't insert
that -
MR. DREEBEN: It was -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- when it made this
amendment. You're just saying that that is the
incidental effect of the provision that Congress did
adopt?
MR. DREEBEN: No, I'm saying that the
background principle that our legislators are familiar
with the law surely applies to sentencing law; and
Congress understood that once the new guidelines were in
effect, which it wanted to happen as soon as
practicable, they would be applied to all defendants in
the system based on time of -- of sentencing, not time
of offense. And it wanted those guidelines to be
conformed to applicable law.
And it is very strange to say that it wanted
new guidelines in effect to be conformed to inapplicable
law such that there would be the incongruous result that
the new guidelines that finally fixed this egregious
problem in the criminal justice system would be
irrelevant for many defendants because they would still
be living under the 100-to-1 racially disparate impact
effect of the guidelines, of these -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Dreeben, almost any
law that repeals a prior penalty is doing so because the
legislature determines that that prior penalty is unjust
in some way, because why do you eliminate a penalty
unless you think it is necessary to do so and that it's
injust or unjust in some way?
So, what makes this repeal particularly
different so that the exception doesn't swallow the
rule, because you can argue in almost any situation that
the repeal is of something that's unjust?
MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, may I
answer the question?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Certainly.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Sotomayor, what's
unique about this context is that there's a confluence
between the way that the guidelines treated crack and
the way that the statutes treated crack. And for years,
the Sentencing Commission had said: We can't fix this
problem with the guidelines alone; we need the help of
Congress to alter the mandatory minimums.
And once you do that, give us emergency
authority so that we can put new guidelines into place
that will work hand-in-glove with the new mandatory
minimums, as the Chief Justice explained, so that all
defendants who come before the Court will not be subject
to the discredited crack policy that Congress had
repealed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Estrada.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MIGUEL A. ESTRADA,
AS THE COURT-APPOINTED AMICUS CURIAE,
IN SUPPORT OF THE JUDGMENTS BELOW
MR. ESTRADA: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
I think this is a difficult case for public
policy but is not a difficult case for legal doctrine.
Fairness is on both sides -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Estrada, what's so
difficult for a legal doctrine to say that when Congress
has made a finding that a law has a discriminatory
impact -- because I always thought that when
discrimination was at issue, that we should do as speedy
a remedy as we could, because it is one of the most
fundamental tenets of our Constitution, as has been
repeatedly emphasized in case after case, that our laws
should be -- should be enforced in a race-neutral way.
Once Congress has said this law's not being
enforced in a race-neutral way, we want to fix it, why
shouldn't our presumption be that the fix is immediate
rather than delayed?
MR. ESTRADA: Because I think it would be
wrong to assume that the passage of the Act reflects
Congress's concession of intentional discrimination. I
think it does recognize that there were members of
Congress that had concerns about the disparate impact of
the law.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Estrada, I've been a
judge for nearly 20 years, and I don't know that there's
one law that has created more controversy or more
discussion about its racial impact than this one.
MR. ESTRADA: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't think there is
any other law that had as much conversation about its
racial implications than this one.
MR. ESTRADA: Justice Sotomayor, that is
absolutely right. But it is very significant that for
20 years we had this argument. The Sentencing
Commission, as the Government points out, went to
Congress again and again and again to say we don't agree
with this, this makes no sense. And for 20 years,
Congress could not bring itself to change it because
there was no agreement on the part of the lawmakers that
the public policy was that easy.
And the fact is you have a whole assortment
of bills that were considered by Congress in the last
several sessions. For people who believe legislative
history is significant, they're all very instructive.
Most of them did a variant of the same thing. Most of
them have very identical language, even some of the
language that's at issue here.
They had different proposals. There was one
for 24:1, another one -- there were many one to one. It
was clear that Congress could not bring itself to an
agreement as to what the right answer was.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but this
agreement -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Estrada, I mean, that's
true, that it took Congress a long time to decide to do
this. I think the question is, once having decided to
do this, what did it decide to do; and whether it would
make sense, once having decided to do this, to have the
guidelines be the new guidelines, but the mandatory
minimums be the old mandatory minimums.
And what everybody understood was that if
that were the case, if the new guidelines and the
old mandatory minimums sort of -- both applied together,
it would lead to ridiculous disparities in the way
people were sentenced.
And so, the question is, once having decided
to do this, can't we assume that Congress decided to do
it?
MR. ESTRADA: No. Let me give three answers
to that.
I think, you know, one of the fundamental
points here is that a premise of the law is to treat
like people alike. And people who committed the same
offense on the same date and may have done so with each
other we would expect to get comparable punishment if
they are comparably situated as to criminal history.
And the -- that the solution that's being urged
undermines that even though that is exactly what section
109 says.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you have to draw a
line someplace, and that's inevitable, that -- that some
people are going to fall on one side. But the point
about the guidelines and the statute working together,
wasn't there a time when the Sentencing Guidelines -
they wanted to do away with this distinction and
Congress said, no, Sentencing Commission, you can't do
it, you can't do it to the guidelines when we don't do
it to the statute?
MR. ESTRADA: There are two points about the
guidelines that I think we have to keep in mind, Justice
Ginsburg. The first one is that they are guidelines,
especially in the world after Booker, which is the world
that confronted Congress in 2010. They are guides that
must be considered by the judge to inform judicial
discretion. So, in the nature of the guidelines, there
is nothing inherent in saying that we must have new ones
that also implies a new obligation of statutory law to
people whose offense conduct occurred earlier.
The second aspect of it is that it has been
part of the nature of a guidelines system for two
decades that it has been consistent with the decision by
Congress in some areas to constrain the exercise of
discretion with mandatory minimums. And this Court has
recognized that in multiple occasions, in Kimbrough, in
Neal, in DePierre, any number of cases. And the
guidelines themselves in section 5G1 recognize that the
mandatory minimum may trump a lower guideline.
So, when you have a long history in 2010 of
rulings from this Court acknowledging, as you said in
your opinion in Kimbrough, that this may lead to cliffs,
et cetera, and you also have a recognition by the
Commission itself that they have to integrate this
reality of sentencing law into their own guidelines,
there is very little basis for an inference that
Congress in providing new guidelines would have
contemplated that the effective date of the law would
change -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Congress did say:
Sentencing Commission, you conform your new guidelines
to applicable law. The applicable law has got to be the
new law, because if it were the old law, there's nothing
to conform. There's nothing that they need to change.
It's only that this -- section A(ii) makes sense only if
the applicable law is the new law. Otherwise, the
Commission doesn't have to do anything to achieve
consistency.
MR. ESTRADA: Justice Ginsburg, I am
prepared to admit for purposes of this case, and I think
it's probably the right answer, that Congress intended
that the guidelines had to line up with the penalties of
the FSA. The question is cui bono? For whose benefit?
And Congress clearly contemplated for some of the
reasons that you outlined that the system in the change
in the statute would not do any good for people coming
to be sentenced 6 months later if they still had higher
guidelines.
But much has been said here today about the
90-day window. The 90-day window is irrelevant. The
really relevant window is the comparison of what the new
guidelines would have been and when they would have come
out absent the emergency authority. Absent any
emergency authority, new guidelines would have come out
November 1st, 2011, which would have been a good
15 months after the passage of the FSA. And even under
the Government's accounting -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Estrada, even
without the guideline amendment, for those defendants
who committed crimes after the effective date of this
Act, they would not have had -- new offense, not old
offense -- if the day after this Act they committed the
offense, they wouldn't have had a mandatory minimum that
required their imprisonment for a certain amount of
time, because the Act had already done away with the
mandatory minimum, correct? Or changed the -
MR. ESTRADA: For some of them. They have
changed some of them.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes, changed it, lowered
the amounts.
MR. ESTRADA: Some of them may drop from 10
to 5, for example, as one of the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly.
MR. ESTRADA: -- as one of the particulars.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, those people would
not have been bound to a mandatory minimum. And since
district courts were not bound to the guidelines anyway,
even if there had been no amendment to the guideline,
the judges would have known they weren't bound to the
mandatory minimum and probably not bound to guidelines
that hadn't been amended yet either.
MR. ESTRADA: That's correct on both counts.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, it would have
benefited these defendants no matter what.
MR. ESTRADA: That's correct on both counts,
but that's -- but that I -- you know, it sort of assumes
that the guidelines are systemically irrelevant in all
cases, because after an -- after an appropriate
analysis -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, only in cases like
this, where we know they have to change because Congress
has directed they be changed.
MR. ESTRADA: But, look -- I mean, one of
the interesting aspects about these cases is that one of
the Petitioners, for example, got the benefit of being
sentenced at the time that the post-FSA guidelines, the
new emergency guidelines, provided a sentencing range of
him of 110 to 137. That's -- that's Mr. Hill. These
are the new guidelines. He was sentenced to a mandatory
minimum of 10, which is on -- on the lower end of that
guideline.
The only reason that case is in the U.S.
Supreme Court is because, even after the new statute,
the judge was of a mind that he wanted to use a
one-to-one ratio. And that's why there's a controversy
here. But the -- that highlights, you know, the point
that I'm trying to make and that the Court made in
Kimbrough, which is that the mandatory minimums tend to
enforce a species of uniformity in a world in which the
guidelines are advisory, and they do help uphold, you
know, the principle that people that committed
comparable offenses will have some rough comparability.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that begs the
question -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But the problem with this -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- I started with, with
you, which is if we know that this new Congress has
already determined that those -- that mandatory minimum
is discriminatory in the way that it had been
constructed, what would be the purpose of delaying
implementation?
MR. ESTRADA: If Congress had made that
finding, Justice Sotomayor, I would fully expect them,
as a citizen, to cut the sentences of everybody who is
already serving the sentence irrespective of finality.
And the fact that Congress did not do that, which is a
proposition on which everybody agrees, I think is
powerful evidence that the assumption that this
necessarily reflects a conclusion that the previous
system was indisputably discriminatory as opposed to
arguably discriminatory -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would find that
extraordinary, that they say it's racist, but we're
going to leave in effect all of the sentences that have
previously been -- been imposed. That seems to me very
unlikely.
Mr. Estrada, I would like you to explain the
effect of 3553(a)(4)(A)(ii), which -- which does seem
to -- to be sure, it's not in the new legislation, but
it's the background against which the new legislation
was adopted, and it seems to require that -- that the
court use the guidelines in effect at the time of
sentencing.
MR. ESTRADA: Right. This is a fight about
competing background rules. Section 109 is one of them
and it says the old law shall be applied to people who
committed their offenses while the old law was in force.
It is a directly applicable statute to the situation at
hand.
This purported competing background rule is
a rule that simply says a judge shall consider the
guidelines then extant. And this is part of the advice
that he gets. It implies nothing about the duty to
apply -
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose you're wrong about
that.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Estrada, you
don't -
MR. ESTRADA: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose you're wrong about
that. I mean, I think when they -- they meant do it,
that considered. Does that change?
MR. ESTRADA: I think it would be a radical
understanding.
JUSTICE BREYER: No. I mean, I think that
when they wrote 3553, they were thinking those were the
guidelines that are going to apply. Do it. Now, I'll
look into that.
But if I -- if I reach the conclusion I
agree competing background rules -
MR. ESTRADA: Justice Breyer -
JUSTICE BREYER: I agree applicable law
doesn't help us, because -- all the time, there are two
different sets of guidelines that apply depending upon
when you committed the crime. That's very common. All
right. So, I agree with you that far.
But now I'm worried about -- the last
question Justice Scalia asked does, I think, focus this
question, because we have not only 109; we have also
the -- the one we're talking about now, and that says,
normally, you will apply the guidelines in effect even
to people who committed the crime before the new
statute.
MR. ESTRADA: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: And now, do we have any
analogies? Has this ever happened before? Is there --
I can't find out how many people we're talking about.
I'd like to know at least are there many other occasions
when Congress amended mandatory minimums so there's some
precedent? Any?
MR. ESTRADA: Justice Breyer, this is a
staple of what has happened in the lower courts in a
routine application of section 109.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. ESTRADA: My best example -- and please
do not think I'm pandering -- is a case called
U.S. v. Smith from the Second Circuit, which -- which
was authored by then-Judge Sotomayor. And it was a
comparable case in which Congress had dropped the
severity of a penalty.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. ESTRADA: It had to be -- you know, the
penalty that deals with supervised release.
And Congress had gone from a world in which
a violation of supervised release had to be subject to a
mandatory sentence, to a world in which the statute had
been changed, to say that it was up in the discretion of
the judge. By the time the offender came to court, he
had violated his supervised release. And his argument,
which was actually a lot more plausible than this one,
was that before he violated, the law had changed, and he
was now in effect now coming to the court for a new
sentencing. Which is exactly analogous to this.
The Second Circuit had no trouble in saying
that a routine application of section 109 killed that
claim because the offense was considered completed at
the time it was committed; and, therefore, this was a -
a claim that simply was not tenable in light of the
language of section 109. And that, too, is a -- is a
case where somebody could have said the law that now
applies is the one that applies to my new sentencing
under the new applicable guidelines.
Now, I will say another two logical points
about, you know, the competing rule that the Government
is urging.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Estrada, before you do,
if I can understand your argument as it relates to
Justice Scalia's questions -- I just want to make sure I
understand it. There's a person who has 4.99 grams of
crack cocaine. And you do not dispute, do you, that
that person would be subject to the new guidelines,
which are based on the 18-to-1 ratio rather than the
100-to-1 ratio?
MR. ESTRADA: I do not. And -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So, you do not
dispute that. So -- so, then we're living in a world in
which the person who has 4.99 grams of cocaine is
getting the 18-to-1 ratio, and a person who has 5 grams
is getting the 100-to-1 ratio that's embedded in the
mandatory minimums.
MR. ESTRADA: That is absolutely right, and
that was the -- the paradox, if you want to call it
that -- that the government brought you in Kimbrough.
And the Court accepted that that was the case. It said,
yes, this leads to cliffs. It leads to a lack of a
straight line in between all of the possible penalties.
We accept all of that. It is an artifact of the fact
that Congress at certain points, but not on a continuous
line, has chosen to constrain sentencing discretion with
the rough tool of a quantity threshold.
It is all set out in the Kimbrough case.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Now, when Judge Easterbrook
talked about this anomaly -- and he, of course, adopted
the position that you adopted. But he just said, look,
there is no earthly reason for this. It's just that we
can't find a clear enough statement in the statute.
I guess the question I would ask you is:
Can you do better than Judge Easterbrook? Can you find
an earthly reason for why Congress would have wanted to
create this weird halfway system in which, if you have
4-1/2 grams of cocaine, one rule applies, but if you
have 5 grams, another rule applies?
MR. ESTRADA: I don't think that that's what
he found inexplicable. I think the -- you know, the
whole notion of changing it up to a point was more what
he's saying.
I can think that Congress has at least the
rational reason that the Court ascribed to the system in
its post-Booker way at the top of page 108, I think, in
the Kimbrough case, where it is that now that we have a
system in which so much depends on the discretion of the
individual sentencer, it is actually salutary to have a
few points of confluence that work as an enforced,
although rough, uniformity in the sentences of
comparably situated offenders.
If I go back -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the Government is
arguing and the Petitioner is arguing for a uniform
rule, the rule that the time of sentencing controls.
MR. ESTRADA: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that uniformity doesn't
quite answer it, unless I misunderstood -
MR. ESTRADA: No, I think that they are
competing visions of fairness and of uniformity in this
case, Justice Kennedy. I am trying to hold, you know,
the Government to the one they had in the McNeill case
last year, because the identical argument was made to
them in the -- on the other side, that it was somewhat
irrational to apply the better sentence to the person 1
day later versus the person 1 day earlier.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But Justice Kagan's
question concerning what interest is served by your
position has particular force when we're talking about
the sentencing judge. The hardest thing -- as we know
in the judicial system, one of the hardest things is
sentencing. And you're saying that a sentencing judge
who knows the law has been changed, who knows the law
has been criticized, is nevertheless bound to determine
that it's fair for this -- for this person to be
sentenced to the longer term.
That's a very difficult -
MR. ESTRADA: But if I could -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- position to put the
judge in. Now, I would -
MR. ESTRADA: If I could take the -- I'm
sorry, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Go ahead.
MR. ESTRADA: If I could take, you know, the
other side of that argument. One of the reasons why I
think, you know, the Court should accept that Congress
contemplated new guidelines but not necessarily take up,
you know, the Government's view that this is actually
called for by the very end of that section, applicable
law, is that the Government looks at this as a world in
which Congress has now intervened and in effect
compelled a -- a more linear function of sentencing so
that, henceforth, I guess the Commission has to conform
to the -- to the 18-to-1 ratio, and it would no longer
be open to the Commission, for example, to do what it
did in 2007, which is we changed our mind; there is a
mandatory minimum that constrains us, but in light of
the most recent scholarship, we think the ratio should
be 16 to 1.
And -- and one of the reasons why I am
reluctant to urge you to accept, you know, the
Government's construction, which I can see how they
would be helped by in future cases, is that I think it's
very implausible for Congress to have considered this,
as they say, the centerpiece of the statute and have -
have it be the last depending clause of section 8.
JUSTICE BREYER: Wait, wait. This is -
just tell me if maybe the light is dawning, and maybe
I'm just at the same question Justice Kagan asked.
Think of before the statute. There were two sets of
people: Those people subject to the mandatory minimum
and those crack people who -- the mandatory minimum
didn't matter, but the Commission wrote amendments
consistent with.
So, they were tough amendments, though the
law didn't require it -
MR. ESTRADA: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- to produce consistency.
Now the statute's passed. Now we have some of the
pre-Act offenders. Because of the two sets of things,
section 8 on the one hand and the 3553(g) on the other,
in respect to those people who were not governed by the
mandatory minimum previously but were subject to the
then-conforming amendments, now will have to be subject
to new conforming amendments that conform to the new
thing.
And that -- because that'll have to be
because of the combination of the two sections that Mr.
Dreeben read, the -- all right. Now, if that's so, we
get to the cliffs that Justice Kagan is talking about.
And if I'm right so far, we're now back at the probation
officer example, and it's so odd and so peculiar that it
is not just a fair -- do you see where I'm going?
MR. ESTRADA: Frankly, no. But -
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that too complicated?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't blame you, frankly.
But I -
MR. ESTRADA: But let me -- let me say two
things -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
MR. ESTRADA: You know, the -
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't blame you. I don't
blame you.
MR. ESTRADA: The simple point I was trying
to make, Justice Breyer, is that the whole thing that
the guideline system now has to conform with applicable
law, which, you know, the Government reads as the new
ratio and could extend to other things, could
potentially disable the Commission from adopting its own
ameliorating amendments that depart from the regime
of -- of the mandatory minimums. And so, whereas there
are mandatory minima that are troublesome and give rise
to cliffs, there are also occasions in which the
Commission is able to do things that are not consistent
with the statute.
Let me give one example that was mentioned
by the Court in DePierre. As the statute was
interpreted in DePierre, cocaine base is cocaine base;
it gets you a mandatory minimum if it's chemically
based. The Commission thinks that you only get the
enhanced penalties if the cocaine base happens to be
crack.
Similarly, under the Neal case, you get to
weigh the carrier medium for the LSD, but, you know, the
Commission thinks that you give it a presumed weight
that is probably lower than the actual medium. In both
of those cases, the Commission comes up with guidelines
that are lower than the methodology that is contemplated
under the statutory analysis.
Were you to adopt the applicable law on the
assumption that the Congress has now dictated that these
things have to line up and never to have cliffs again
because they are bad, you could end up having untoward
consequences as to what it is that the Commission can do
in the future in order to deal with other
inequalities -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Estrada, I'm not
sure I follow -
JUSTICE ALITO: -- the question -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead, Justice
Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure I follow
your example. I think that the guideline regulation is
that the guideline -- the Sentencing Commission always
has to be -- pass guidelines consistent with the
mandatory minimum. And if the statute says that the
mandatory minimum requires the -- the carrying medium to
be included, the guidelines can't change that. The
mandatory minimum would apply.
MR. ESTRADA: For -- for purposes of the
mandatory minimum, but not for the sentences in between.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But defendant -- I don't
know that I know of one guideline scheme that changes
whatever Congress has statutorily required.
MR. ESTRADA: I just gave you two examples:
The LSD guideline that was at issue in Neal and the
crack guideline that was not at issue but was discussed
in connection with the statutory interpretation in -- in
DePierre.
You know, my point -- I don't want to
overstate the point. My point is there is reason to
believe that Congress intended the new guidelines to be
available for new offenses. The fact that Congress gave
emergency authority so that that would be possible makes
perfect sense because in the absence of emergency
authority, the new guidelines would not -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no. You have to -
what you're arguing is not that the guidelines would be
available for new offenses. What you're arguing is that
they would be available for everybody except the
cliffhangers. That -- that's what you're arguing.
MR. ESTRADA: Except for? I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Everyone but the
cliffhangers, because, as Justice Breyer pointed out,
those people who were subject to the old guideline at a
higher rate above the minimum now have the benefit of a
lower rate. And so, they're going to get sentenced to a
lower amount because they're not bound by the mandatory
minimum.
MR. ESTRADA: But there are -- there are two
alternative worlds after the FSA, Justice Sotomayor. In
the first one, guidelines don't change for 15 months.
People who committed the crime after the FSA come to the
court for sentencing 10 months later and they get the
new mandatory minimum, but it doesn't matter because the
old guidelines are higher. It is possible that the
judge would intervene and use Booker discretion, but not
necessarily so.
And the alternative world which Congress did
give us is you change the guidelines as soon as you can;
if you come to the bar of the court with a pre-FSA
offense, it doesn't matter, because the new guidelines,
like every guidelines book since the beginning, say that
if a mandatory minimum applies, that controls over the
then-current guidelines, which is one of the fundamental
reasons why the alternative view of the world and the
alternative rule of construction the Government proffers
makes no sense.
As a pure statutory construction matter and
for those members of the Court who give weight to
legislative history, I will point out that the emergency
authority section that the Government thinks is
dispositive on this point was in every version of this
bill -- Senate 1711, Senate 1383, you know, the House
versions that they cite -- even when those statutes, as
Justice Scalia pointed -- I'm sorry -- as Justice Alito
pointed out earlier, provided an effective date for the
new statute of 6 months hence. It is -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, along those lines,
could I -- could I ask you this question, which is
intended to explore the -- the issue whether the
argument about bringing the guidelines into consistency
with applicable law doesn't assume the answer that is -
that one attempts to get from it?
Suppose the -- the Fair Sentencing Act said
expressly this applies only -- the new mandatory
minimums apply only to post-Act offenders, but it also
contained a provision that says the Sentencing
Commission has to bring the guidelines into consistency
with applicable law. I assume there what they would
have to do would be to say that the new guidelines apply
only to post-enactment offenders, so that the Fair
Sentencing Act would trump this previous provision in
the Sentencing Reform Act. Wouldn't that be correct?
MR. ESTRADA: Correct. And I think that
that would be true here as well. And the reason why I
was highlighting the earlier bills is because each and
every one of them had the same, almost word for word,
"conform with applicable law" emergency authority. All
of them uniformly said the new mandatory minimums will
not apply for another 6 months after the enactment.
As a logical proposition, if Congress
thought that the identical language made sense to bring
the guidelines into conformity with a law that would not
take into -- that would not kick in for another 6
months, having it kick in sooner does not have any more
logical import in saying that, therefore, you know, the
guidelines now mean that previous offenses get a
different sentence.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But could I understand what
you're saying, Mr. Estrada? Because if Justice Alito is
right, then the new guidelines that the Sentencing
Commission has in fact promulgated should not be being
applied right now to those who committed crimes before
the enactment date. And that's not what's happening now
on the ground, is it?
MR. ESTRADA: Justice Kagan, it is not
happening in that manner because the guidelines, every
book of the guidelines, I believe since 1987, which is
the first one, has had, like, 5G1.1, which says these
are the guidelines, but 5G tells you if a mandatory
minimum applies, for whatever reason, you apply that and
that becomes the mandatory sentence.
And so, there has never been any reason to
have two sets of guidelines to account for cliffs or
mandatory minimums, because every guidelines book has
had a built-in solution to that problem, which is we
understand that there are cliffs, we understand that
there is a world of mandatory minimums; we can't fix
those, this is our guideline sentence. If somehow, for
some reason -- because it occurred, you know, before or
whatever -- there is a mandatory minimum that applies,
the guidelines say the mandatory minimum becomes the
guideline sentence.
So, in that sense, a Congress that knew the
law would understand that saying you have to have new
guidelines had no logical force in saying that,
therefore, the effective date of mandatory minimums or
any other factor that bore on the application of
mandatory minimums would be changed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Estrada.
MR. ESTRADA: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Eberhardt, you
have 3 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN E. EBERHARDT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. EBERHARDT: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
Obviously, this Court recognizes the
difficulty of those district court judges sitting and
asking themselves: What do I do with this defendant as
opposed to another defendant? And after listening to my
colleague, Mr. Estrada, I still have to ask the Court to
consider the question that the Court has been asking:
What possible reason could Congress have to want a
district court judge to have to sit back, 5 years after
the date of enactment of the Fair Sentencing Act, and
impose mandatory minimums that everyone agrees at this
point are racially discriminatory?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, you could say
that about any statute that runs afoul of -- of section
109. I mean, that's what section 109 says: Even though
we have decided that this old law is bad and the penalty
should be lesser, even though we've decided, when we do
that, you continue to apply the bad old penalty to
people who committed a crime before the amendment.
Isn't that what 109 says?
MR. EBERHARDT: It can be, but, as Justice
Sotomayor recognizes, there has never been a situation
such as this basically in the history of criminal law
and criminal law sentencing in our country.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'd imagine you'd find
disagreement with that. You know -- you know -- you
know if -- as a matter of fact, in the year that these
took effect, think of the sentences that were not
governed by mandatory for crack, not governed by the
mandatory minimum. Did the guidelines provide, let's
call it a low sentence, disproportionately low?
MR. EBERHARDT: Congress ultimately felt
that they did, yes, because what they -
JUSTICE BREYER: And did they change those
non-mandatory part when they wrote new ones?
MR. EBERHARDT: The guidelines changed in
different respects with regard to different amounts.
The new -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. I'll look it
up. I'll look it up.
MR. EBERHARDT: I suggest the Court -- we
admit that 109 has to be considered in the case, but I
think to find what was really meant by Congress, after
the Court looks to section 109, the Court does have to
look to the 3553 sentence -- or 3553 section, that makes
it very plainly clear, ever since the Sentencing Reform
Act, that the date of sentencing clearly is the
important date, as opposed to the date of the commission
of the crime.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All those arguments
have nothing to do with the provision about the
Sentencing Commission is supposed to act quickly or any
of that, right?
Your argument is what rational reason could
Congress have had to -- given the urgency of the
problem, the seriousness, why wouldn't they have wanted
the provisions to apply as you urged they should?
MR. EBERHARDT: But it goes hand-in-hand
with the mandate from the Sentencing Commission to put
the new guidelines in place as soon as practical, as
well as provisions of section 10.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Eberhardt.
Mr. Estrada, at the invitation of the Court,
you have briefed and argued this case as an amicus
curiae in support of the judgment below. You've ably
discharged that responsibility, for which the Court is
grateful.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:21 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
33:2 41:24 APPEARANCES 23:2 24:7,10,10,16 background 17:6
1:21 27:6,7 28:2 31:13 29:18 40:19,24
44:20
applicable 12:8 46:16 47:13 54:7 backs 11:2
18:14 27:5 29:25 36:11,11,15 artifact 45:1 based 5:23 8:17
28:8 51:8 41:2 42:1 44:1 ascribed 45:22 10:5 25:2 29:23
55:11 47:17 49:25 50:24 asked 13:25 42:7 44:11 50:14
56:14 aspects 38:23 begging 20:13 25:7
34:4 40:25 55:14 54:8,15 behalf 3:4,7,15 4:8
12:21 13:3
14:6,21,25
37:13 38:7 28:3 29:19 43:25 assumes 38:15 belief 4:12
16:15
43:25 45:15,16 assuming 22:24 believe 6:9 9:2 11:8
18:1
20:2,2,8
49:2,3 56:7 assumption 40:7 52:7 55:19
24:25 25:1
apply 6:5 12:19 50:25 bemoaned 28:17
26:6,10,11
29:4 32:10
59:14 20:3 24:20 25:1 attempts 54:9 52:21
54:10
57:8
54:16 55:1,22 21:19 better 45:12 46:18
22:13
appropriately 26:19 52:11 53:22 54:24 bind 5:24 6:14,20
11:5 17:14 35:21 clearly 28:9 36:23 compelled 47:20 47:14,19 48:7
52:23 centerpiece 48:8 49:8 50:7 51:1 complicated 49:13 32:11
23:7,8,12 45:2 closer 14:2 concerning 46:21 consequences 51:3
24:1,3 Certainly 30:21 cocaine 44:9,16 concerns 32:13 consider 41:5 57:5
cetera 36:2 45:15 50:12,12,15 concession 32:11 considered 10:12
42:1 change 6:5 8:7 33:4 colleague 4:17 conclusion 40:8 33:8 35:10 41:16
43:5 36:8,13,24 38:20 11:20 17:15 57:4 41:23 43:20 48:7 58:15
49:13,15 41:16 51:18 53:2 combination 49:6 concurring 16:19 consistency 12:7
52:19 53:10 58:7 come 8:15 13:11 condense 13:19 19:8 26:22 36:17
58:7,12 changed 21:5,5 18:7 22:7 31:8 conduct 35:14 48:21 54:7,14
55:3 changing 45:19 commission 12:6 49:3,25 54:24 constrains 47:25
7:12 13:23 36:16 47:21,23 conformity 55:4 contained 27:9
9:17 11:5 cite 8:2 53:25 43:21 53:3 55:14 20:22 21:18 23:17 continuous 45:2
16:17 26:25 citizen 40:3 57:17 23:24 24:11 26:12 contrary 26:21
32:3,3 claim 43:20,22 common 42:4 28:13,16,21 29:10 controls 46:8 53:14
36:19 39:6 clause 48:9 common-law 17:7 29:15,20 31:3,9,22 controversy 32:17
43:3,24 clear 5:3,5,12 7:15 comparability 39:16 32:5,13 33:2,4,8 39:9
crimes 37:14 55:14 38:13 discretion 35:11,19
34:17 57:21,22 delaying 39:24 discrimination E 1:22 3:1,3,14 4:1,1
10:10 15:3 criticized 47:2 depending 42:3 48:9 31:23 39:23 40:9 8:3 11:18 27:8
22:22 28:7 cui 36:22 depends 45:25 40:10 57:10 35:14 46:19 54:2
38:11,14 curiae 2:3 3:11 DePierre 35:21 discussed 15:10 54:22
31:14 59:15 50:11,12 52:4 52:2 earthly 45:9,13
24:17 45:7 15:3,4,25 17:22 details 14:9 disproportionately 5:21 6:8,23 7:4,19
20:7,17 25:2,15 determinative 9:17 58:4 7:23,25 8:9,17,24
6:23 8:19 34:15 36:7 37:14 determined 39:22 44:15 10:10,16 11:8,16
10:8,12,17,20 54:2 55:15 56:13 determines 30:11 distinction 35:1 12:4 13:5,7,14
15:21 16:7 57:8 58:20,21,21 determining 7:5 district 4:14 38:6 14:3,15 15:3,15
18:1 20:7 dawning 48:11 deviated 10:13 57:1,7 56:19,21,23 57:19
31:8,17 day 20:4 37:16 dictated 50:25 doctrine 31:19,22 58:5,9,14 59:6,12
39:7,11 46:19,19 Dictionary 6:22 doing 30:10 EDWARD 1:3
43:12,16 days 12:11 13:19 17:2 Dorsey 1:3 4:4 effect 12:9,24 13:1
45:22 47:14 14:2 21:2 27:16 dictum 8:25 9:1,15 drafted 14:6 14:21 15:2 18:17
53:4,11,20 28:12 9:18,18 drafting 12:18 20:4 21:19 25:13
57:1,4,5 deal 51:4 different 8:13 30:16 draw 18:1,23 34:21 25:17 26:8,16 29:6
58:14,17,17 deals 43:7 33:14 42:3 55:9 Dreeben 1:24 3:6 29:15,21 30:2,8
decades 35:17 58:10,10 15:16,17,20 16:3,6 40:13,17,21 42:10
20:2 22:14 decided 33:22,24 difficult 31:18,19,22 18:12,16,18,21 effective 14:19
42:21 34:7,8 57:14,15 47:5 19:21,25 20:18 27:16 28:11 36:7
31:14 deemed 17:10 38:21 24:2,9,13,22,24 either 38:10
30:24,25 defeat 16:17 directly 11:8 41:2 26:5,25 27:14 28:7 eliminate 30:12
44:9 48:15 defendant 13:16 directs 19:3 20:2 28:10,24 29:1,3,7 embedded 44:18
52:2 58:2 21:11 26:9 51:22 disable 50:3 29:9,12,17 30:9,19 emergency 12:6
20:17 25:14 50:10 51:13 felt 6:9 58:5 G guideline 12:7 25:21
57:8 examples 51:25 fight 40:23 G 4:1 35:23 37:13 38:7
46:2 exercise 19:5 35:18 finality 40:4 getting 44:17,18 guides 35:9
explained 16:19 11:3 22:21 40:11 14:20 34:21 35:7 H
explore 54:6 fine 19:16 50:6,10,19 53:10 hand-in-glove 31:6
extant 41:6 fits 25:21 47:11 51:10 happens 50:15
extend 50:2 fix 31:1 32:6,7 56:4 goal 26:22 hardest 46:23,24
34:10 35:5 extraordinary 40:12 fixed 30:4 goes 13:16 59:6 hear 4:3
37:12,21,25 focus 17:19 42:7 going 8:7 11:17 heard 23:2
40:1 F follow 51:7,12 13:15,17 16:4 19:5 heavily 5:13
41:11,13 fact 7:1 8:18 10:5 followed 10:25 26:13 34:23 40:13 held 8:20 9:15
42:13,20 28:17 33:7 40:5 footnote 7:21 8:7 41:21 49:11 52:22 help 17:19 31:2
43:6 44:5,13 45:1 52:8 55:13 9:1,18 good 4:12,13 27:7 39:14 42:2
45:17 46:9 57:25 force 20:24 41:1 36:25 37:9 helped 48:6
47:6,9,12 factor 56:14 46:22 56:12 governed 9:5,8,25 henceforth 17:22
49:12,17,20 factors 21:12 formula 21:4 48:25 58:2,2 47:21
51:6,20,25 fair 4:20,22,25 5:8 foster 26:21 government 27:23 Hertz 5:12
54:20 6:12,13 7:6,9,14 found 4:20 9:24 33:1 44:3,22 46:6 higher 37:1 52:21
56:17,18 7:19 8:8,11,23 45:18 46:15 47:18 50:1 53:6
59:13 9:16,23,24 10:8,21 four 28:16 53:17,22 highlighting 54:22
34:2 40:3,6 49:11 54:10,17 36:22 37:10 53:1,3 45:15,16 26:14 33:10 34:17
57:8 fully 40:2 grateful 59:17 35:24 53:21 57:21
10:5 incorporates 16:12 39:8 41:5 43:12 language 5:20 10:8 lines 54:4
25:24 21:11 47:8 53:7 57:7 12:5 15:6 16:5,23 little 21:7 36:5
law 6:4 12:8 14:8,18
55:3 14:6 33:21 35:24
24:14,14,18
29:19,19,25
31:23
34:13
36:4,7,11,11
injust 30:14 keep 35:6 low 58:4,4
41:1 42:1
47:1,1,18
50:1,24 54:8
integrate 36:3 46:10,14,20 47:7 50:22 52:22,23
55:4
57:14,21,22
6:12 intended 15:24 18:4 kick 55:5,6 LSD 50:18 52:1
7:6,9,14,16 36:20 52:7 54:6 killed 43:19 laws 32:3
8:6,8,11,23 intent 6:12 15:4 Kimbrough 35:20 M
10:8,22 intentional 32:11 36:1 39:12 44:22 magical 17:16
11:2,6,24,25 interest 46:21 45:5,24 making 24:9,10
15:5,23 interesting 38:23 kind 10:24 mandate 59:7
17:20 interpretation 23:3 knew 20:22 56:10 mandated 12:5
40:18,19
33:9
57:9 irrationality 26:21 47:16 48:4 49:20 37:17,20 38:5,9
issue 25:4 31:25 known 6:4 15:5 38:8 light 43:22 47:25 50:6,13 51:16,17
56:1,4,7 17:25 19:14 20:12 57:20 occur 28:8,9 original 27:2
57:9 21:4 35:23 37:17 nevertheless 47:2 occurred 20:16 outlined 36:24
37:20 38:5,9 39:4 new 6:13 12:24,25 35:14 56:6 outmoded 26:20
17:15 52:21,24 53:5,14 24:18,18 25:1,3,6 22:6 28:4 46:4 overstate 52:6
8:15,17,21 minimums 12:25 30:2,4 31:5,6 offense 12:20 13:10 P
21:9 23:16 27:18 33:25 34:3 35:12 20:5 21:11 25:14 P 4:1
48:16 53:5 34:4 35:19 39:12 36:15 37:5,8,15 37:15,16,17 43:20 45:23
57:25 42:18 44:19 50:5 39:1,3,7,21 40:18 53:12 pandering 42:25
54:12,25 56:1,4,13 40:19 42:11 43:16 offenses 20:15,16 paradox 44:21
19:11 20:18 misunderstood 52:7,8,11,14 53:5 Office 22:13 35:16 41:6 58:8
23:8 28:3,19 46:11 53:12 54:3,11,16 officer 49:10 particular 46:22
38:22 41:15 mitigating 21:12 54:25 55:12 56:11 officers 17:23 18:3 particularly 30:15
55:8 57:13 months 13:16 14:2 58:8,11 59:8 Oh 6:1,23 particulars 38:3
morning 4:4 8:19 10:6 13:12 23:16 24:19 passed 48:22
15:7,8 multiple 35:20 normally 42:10 34:4 36:12 37:15 peculiar 49:10
58:16 Northern 5:10,11 40:25 41:1 52:20 penalties 17:25
Nationality 10:20 November 14:24 31:4 32:5 33:22,24 43:4,7 57:14,16
52:1 number 35:21 58:8 23:3 24:18,19 25:2
necessarily 10:23 numerically 23:25 open 47:23 34:6,14,14,23
necessary 5:11 8:10 O 3:1 4:1 opponent 22:22 42:16 48:14,14,15
30:13 obvious 23:19 40:9 57:3 58:21 57:17
47:24 31:2 36:13 56:25 oral 1:18 3:2,5,9 4:7 perfect 24:23,25
post-Act 54:12 problem 28:1 30:5 20:14 25:7,23 recognition 36:2
46:18,19 post-enactment 59:4 34:7 36:22 39:18 35:22
28:4 54:17 procedure 10:18 42:7,8 45:11 46:21 recognized 35:20
powerful 40:7 proffers 53:17 questions 44:7 reconcile 27:13
4:8,19 21:16 29:22 19:4 21:25,25 58:25 reflects 32:10 40:8
15:19 38:24 practical 14:11 59:8 promulgated 55:13 quite 7:15 46:11 Reform 14:6 15:7
pre 20:14 proposals 33:14 quote 19:6 26:14 20:2,2 24:24 25:1
42:24 56:24 pretty 5:19 11:14,17 25:16 range 39:1 reluctant 23:6 48:4
34:23 39:10 previously 40:14 provisions 12:7 19:9 44:11,12,17,18 remedy 32:1
49:23 52:5,6 49:1 19:13 21:6 59:5,9 47:22 48:1 50:2 removed 5:20
53:21,23 pre-Act 48:23 public 31:18 33:6 rational 45:22 59:2 reopen 27:22
pre-enactment 24:5 punishment 34:16 reach 41:23 reopened 27:19
53:11 purely 9:15 readily 14:9 repeal 5:1 9:14
44:2 45:2 primarily 8:17 purpose 39:24 reality 36:4 repealed 9:9,16
primary 9:3 10:4 purposes 26:19 really 5:5 7:8 13:18 23:17 31:10
39:15 put 17:19 18:10 20:1 reason 26:17 39:6 repeals 30:10
46:22 47:7 30:11 56:6 57:6 59:2 reproduce 25:25
21:16 44:25 23:15 36:20 38:9 quantities 19:14 reasons 36:24 47:13 48:19
53:6 57:6 50:20 quantity 45:4 48:3 53:16 required 4:22 6:4
runs 57:12 Securities 10:3 sentencings 15:25 16:11,16 30:9,22
saying 9:11 10:25 33:24 36:14 52:10 26:7 27:2 45:5 52:12,18 53:1
34:20 40:25 41:5 58:18 46:17 47:13 SR 1:3
55:20 57:13,18 19:19 20:21 21:25 signature 14:19 6:9 7:5 8:12 10:12
8:23 9:1,20 9:13,20 11:22 52:22 simple 49:23 staple 42:21
15:1 17:12 16:18 18:6,13,14 sentencer 46:1 simply 8:8 41:5 started 39:20
23:13 24:6 18:17,19 19:16,22 sentences 4:15 43:22 statement 6:5,16
33:17 36:20 19:25 20:13,19 19:15 27:19,21,22 sit 57:7 16:15 45:10
42:5 44:20 22:25 25:3,6,9,10 27:24 40:3,13 46:3 sitting 4:17 57:1 statements 26:15
48:20 49:7,9 25:18,19 26:2,4,23 51:21 58:1 situated 34:17 46:4 26:18
55:12,14 28:19,25 29:2,6,8 sentencing 4:20 situation 30:17 41:2 States 1:1,6,13,19
59:1 29:10,13 40:11 12:6,21,23,24 13:1 57:20 4:4,5 16:20
6:1 7:12 scheme 51:23 15:22 17:20,21 solution 34:18 56:2 11:7,13 17:9,9
14:7 15:14 scholarship 48:1 18:4,24 19:4,7,12 somebody 43:24 21:17 24:19 25:22
21:1 30:21 second 7:3 35:15 20:1,2,3,4,5,7,8 someplace 34:22 25:23 29:2 34:24
51:10 56:16 43:1,18 20:25 21:6,11,12 somewhat 46:17 35:4 36:25 39:7
58:23 59:11 section 4:23,23 5:2 21:20 24:24 25:1,2 soon 12:9,10 14:11 41:2 42:12 43:10
18:25 19:3 20:23 28:15 29:4,19,23 sooner 55:6 57:12
41:4,5 44:3 42:22 43:19,23 45:3 46:8,23,25,25 sorry 5:11 9:6 26:3 statutory 35:13
46:8,8 47:17 48:9,24 47:20 51:14 53:4 26:5 41:13 47:10 50:23 52:3 53:19
53:22 57:12,13 54:10,13,18,19 51:9 52:17 54:1 STEPHEN 1:22 3:3
4:7 56:21 take 12:9 13:8 14:16 41:17,19 42:7,25 39:11 46:14 49:23 V
talk 8:14 28:20 thinking 41:20 51:25 52:25 55:25 versions 53:25
48:14 49:1,2 42:16 46:22 49:8 55:3 unanimous 4:12 violated 43:13,15
targeted 21:10 thousands 23:15 undermined 28:14 violation 43:9
tenable 43:22 thresholds 15:24 27:25 28:2 44:6,8 W
tenets 32:2 till 22:10 understanding want 4:14 12:2,19
31:11,16 56:16,18 38:25 40:21 42:2 uniformity 39:13 39:8 45:13 59:4
31:15 59:15 then-conforming times 10:14 28:16 uniformly 5:3 54:25 2:2
then-current 53:15 today 37:3 United 1:1,6,13,19 way 9:5 10:15 18:7
18:25 20:10 theory 14:25 tool 45:4 universally 4:15 30:14,24,25 32:4,6
thing 22:23 33:11 top 45:23 unjust 30:11,14,18 34:5 39:23 45:23
things 13:22 21:9 translate 21:13 12:3 16:2,8 weighing 10:18
44:7 51:7,12 50:2,8 51:1 treated 30:24,25 5:6 7:15 weird 45:14
35:16 36:24 17:19 18:1,6,7,21 troubles 27:8 urgency 59:3 We'll 4:3
45:14,22,25 18:23 23:14,24 troublesome 50:6 urging 44:4 we're 5:19 6:20,21
49:25 24:4 25:15,21 27:6 true 9:21 10:2,2 use 9:23 12:6 17:16 8:7 16:4 22:3,20
32:9,12,20 trump 35:23 54:18 53:7 42:16 44:15 46:22
57:18 58:15,17 3742(g) 26:23
44:15 110 39:2 4th 21:19
53:9,16 56:4 120-day 13:20 4-1/2 45:15
38:1 44:17 45:16
54:19 59:4 16 48:2
55:21
35:22
55:20
47:22
22:6
27:16 28:12
13:20
5:21
3:15
55:19
6 37:1 54:3 55:1,5
19:12
32:16,25 2007 47:24 8 4:23 12:5 14:12
57:7 2010 35:9,24 18:25 24:4 48:9,24
37:9
1:16 9
46:18,19 48:2 24:1 33:15 90 12:11 13:19 14:2
14:24 37:9 25 15:10 21:2
24:8 265 27:9 28:9 90-day 12:16 14:22
4:24 23:9 37:25
53:4 59:9 3
19:2 3 19:12 56:20
1:20 4:2 3rd 14:24 15:4
23:9 3-month 21:23
30:7 44:12 30a 25:25 26:2,3
31 3:11
45:23 3353(a)(4) 26:1
5:2,17 6:4,21 3553 41:20 58:18,18
8:20,22 9:5,8 3553(a) 20:23 25:25
