IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MAETTA VANCE, :
Petitioner : No. 11-556
v. :
BALL STATE UNIVERSITY, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, November 26, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DANIEL R. ORTIZ, ESQ., Charlottesville, Virginia; on
behalf of Petitioner.
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United
States, as amicus curiae, in support of neither
party.
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DANIEL R. ORTIZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae, 20
in support of neither party
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 32
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DANIEL R. ORTIZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next this morning in Case 11-556, Vance v. Ball State
University.
Mr. Ortiz.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DANIEL R. ORTIZ
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ORTIZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case concerns who counts and who does
not count as a supervisor under Title VII. The parties
and the United States agree that the Seventh Circuit
rule violates the holding of Faragher, the reasoning of
Faragher and this Court's other central Title VII
precedents, including Burlington Northern and Staub, and
the common-sense meaning of the word "supervisor."
The parties even agree as to the general
legal standard, although they style it a little bit
different -- differently, that those harassers whose
employer-conferred authority over their victims enables
or materially augments the harassment should count as
supervisors.
This is not a standard, Your Honor, that
imposes automatic liability on employers. Victims must
still prove actionable harassment, and employers can
still take advantage of the Ellerth/Faragher affirmative
defense.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's say you have a
work room. There are five people who work there. And
the employer has a rule that the senior employee gets to
pick the music that's going to play all day long. And
the senior employee says to one of the other
employees -- you know, if you don't date me -- I know
you don't like country music; if you don't date me, it's
going to be country music all day long.
Now, that affects the daily activities of
that other employee. I would have thought, under your
theory, that means that that senior employee is a
supervisor.
MR. ORTIZ: No, Your Honor, because in that
circumstance the adverse action would not amount to --
would not be severe. Or, perhaps it would be
pervasive --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that could
be -- that could be far more severe than, for example --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Hard rock instead of --
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It could be far more
severe than simply saying, all right -- you know, you're
going to -- as in this case -- you're going to be
cutting the celery rather than -- you know, baking the
bread, or whatever.
MR. ORTIZ: Well, no, Your Honor, this is
the -- the severity is an objective standard; it's not a
subjective. So in this case, someone's intense
dislike -- maybe it's debilitating, subjective --
dislike of rock music, some forms of country music --
might impair the performance of some in the workplace;
but, from an objective reasonable employee's standpoint,
I don't believe that that would be the case. Not all --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but, I mean,
there are places where the environment -- you know, an
assembly line or something like that -- where the task
may not be that different, but how you -- the
environment in which you have to perform them may be far
more significant than whether or not you're attaching
the door handles or the front fenders.
MR. ORTIZ: Oh, for sure, Your Honor, but
that has to be judged on a case-by-case basis.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, exactly. And
I would have thought the benefit of the Seventh
Circuit's test was that you don't have to go through
those case-by-case basis. I think we can have a
reasonable debate about whether the music you have to
listen to for eight hours is objectively a significant
enough interference with the daily activities to qualify
under your test.
But the Seventh Circuit test makes clear --
it doesn't give any kind of immunity; it just makes
clear what type of analysis is going to be applied to
the allegation.
MR. ORTIZ: Well, Your Honor, the Respondent
actually exaggerates the determinativeness of the
Seventh Circuit rule, and the indeterminativeness --
both indeterminativeness and unpredictability of the
Second Circuit rule.
The Seventh Circuit itself has recognized --
the judges in the Seventh Circuit itself have recognized
that the rule does not really well fit the realities of
the workplace. It also just moves uncertainty from one
category to another.
The category of supervisor may be a little
bit tidier; but, under the Seventh Circuit's approach,
the category of co-worker is very unpredictable.
The Seventh Circuit itself, in
Doe v. Oberweis Dairy, recognized that once you move
people who can take -- have this kind of power over
their victims but can't actually take tangible employment
actions against them into the category of co-workers,
all of a sudden you have to apply a sliding scale of
negligence. Not only that, but the jury is the one who
applies it.
So for those categories -- this exact
category of employee, Your Honor, the employee --
employer going forward has very little idea of
whether -- what standard of care is that a particular
jury would apply in that case and whether the jury would
decide it is met or not.
The Seventh Second -- Seventh Circuit rule,
in the overall, is no more determinative than the Second
Circuit rule.
Also, Respondent points to no cases in the
Second Circuit or the other circuits that have adopted
this rule where courts have identified problems with its
application. And that --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, could you explain
what the materially augments rule means? Could you
provide a definition of that? The authority to assign
daily tasks has to be sufficient to do what?
MR. ORTIZ: It has to be sufficient to
enable the harasser to instill either fear in the victim
that the victim should not turn the harasser in, or that
it may have to do with the harasser's ability to control
the physical location of the victim. That can augment
harassment.
If an harasser can steer a victim to a
location where the harasser has an opportunity to
harass, and, indeed, may have an opportunity to harass
without other employees or other people in the company
seeing in, that would materially augment --
JUSTICE ALITO: There are situations where
the -- the assignment of responsibilities is extremely
unpleasant, and so it's easy to see how the testimony
would apply in that situation.
But there are also a lot of situations, like
the Chief Justice's example, where it's really very
unclear. I don't know how courts are going to -- how
courts can grapple with that.
MR. ORTIZ: Well, Your Honor, this --
JUSTICE ALITO: You said that being
subjected to country music or hard rock or Wagner -- you
know, every single day in the workplace would not be
sufficient. I don't know. Some people might think that
it was -- that that is.
MR. ORTIZ: Justice Alito, this part of the
standard, particularly the materiality requirement, is
meant to track this Court's standard in Burlington
Northern, where it said that only actions that are
materially adverse to the employee would count.
And this Court identified the materiality
requirement there as actually working to make the
standard more objective, not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Ortiz, why isn't the
question that you're presenting academic in this case?
Because didn't the district judge say that there had
been no showing that Davis' conduct was sufficiently
severe or pervasive?
It wouldn't matter if the supervisor -- if
the conduct was not sufficiently severe or pervasive
harassment, and, equally, if the company responded every
time a complaint was lodged. The district court found
both of those things, that it wasn't severe and
pervasive, and that every time she claimed -- complained
an investigation was made.
MR. ORTIZ: Justice Ginsburg, we actually
tried to bring those things up before the Seventh
Circuit, but the Seventh Circuit found it unnecessary to
reach them because of its holding as to supervisory
liability.
If this Court were to reverse the Seventh
Circuit's affirmance of summary judgment of the district
court, the case would then be remanded to the Seventh
Circuit, where it could either look at these
alternative -- these other holdings, or the thing would
be -- it could be remanded at that point and sent back
to the district court for another look.
The district court's reasoning, the Seventh
Circuit noted, when it was talking about other incidents
of harassment was very unusual. What the district court
did was it divided all of the incidents into two
categories.
One category -- one category consisted of
events that by themselves were not overtly racial in
nature and the other category consisted of those events
that were overtly racial in nature, where a racial
epithet had been hurled at someone, for example, and
said with respect to the first category, the things --
the events that on their face did not announce racial
animosity, that there wasn't any racial nexus, so they
didn't count, and swept all those events out and then
looked at the remaining ones where the connection to
racial animus was overt. And it said, well, these,
there may be some, but they just don't count.
So the Seventh Circuit itself discredited
the reasoning of the district court in those very
holdings.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Ortiz, suppose I agree
with your standard, but I just can't find on the record
as it has been presented in this Court any evidence that
Davis actually served as Vance's supervisor. What -- I
mean, what's your best -- so if that's true, I would be
tempted to actually just decide the thing rather than to
remand it.
So as against that approach, what is your
best evidence that there was a supervisory relationship
under your standard here?
MR. ORTIZ: First, Justice Kagan, it is
important to keep in mind that the record was developed
under the wrong legal standard. But even considering
that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, is that the case? Is
there evidence that you did not present because the
Seventh Circuit applied a different standard?
MR. ORTIZ: There was evidence that was
probably not developed below because the Seventh
Circuit's standard was so absolute. But there is
actually evidence in the record, we believe plenty of
evidence, sufficient certainly to overcome summary
judgment, although perhaps not enough for partial
summary judgment on this question in our favor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What other than the job
description? The job description says that the catering
specialist has authority to direct or lead the part-time
employees. But what concrete instances of Davis
exercising supervisory authority over Vance is there in
this record?
MR. ORTIZ: Well, Justice -- there is two
separate questions, Justice Ginsburg. One is instances
of it; others is whether she has the authority or not.
Because this Court has held in Faragher itself that it
is the authority that makes the difference, not the
actual exercising of it in a particular case.
But let me go through what is in the record
now, much of it which is in the Joint Appendix but not
all, because we were not aware that we would be opposing
a summary judgment motion before this Court.
First, William Kimes, who is the director of
the university banquet and catering division, the sort of
head of this 60-some-person department. Two employees
testified that he told them that Davis was a supervisor.
One of them was Vance; that could be found on page 198
of the Joint Appendix. Another is an employee who was
in Vance's position named Dawn Knox, and that statement
can be found on page 386 of the Joint Appendix.
William Kimes himself testified in his
deposition that Davis, quote: "Directed and led other
employees in the kitchen." That can be found on page
367 of the Joint Appendix. In an internal investigation
by compliance officers at Ball State --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What I mean is not the
statement, well, she's a supervisor. But comparable to
Faragher, where the lifeguard who didn't have authority
to hire her or fire her said, if you don't date me, you
are going to be cleaning the toilets. We don't have
anything like that in this record.
MR. ORTIZ: Well, there was no overt threat
like that in the record, but the person who was hurling
racial epithets at her was in a position of authority
over her, both according to the job description, also
according to her understanding, according --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that was also -- that
would be for a very confined period. It would only be
when the -- when Vance was a part-time employee. Once
she is a full-time employee there isn't that.
MR. ORTIZ: No, Your Honor. There is two
separate provisions in the job description which cover
the whole period of time here. The harassment started
around September 2005, went in through August -- went to
August 2007 with one incident, March 1st, I believe it
was, 2008. On January 1st, 2007, Ms. Vance received a
promotion from part-time to full-time.
Page 13 on the Joint Appendix has this item
that you pointed to, Justice, which specifically lists
among the duties and responsibilities of the catering
specialist leading and directing part-time employees.
However, page 12 of the Joint Appendix lists under
positions supervised by the catering specialist, exactly
Vance's position. So when she moved from full-time --
sorry, from part-time to full-time on -- in January
2007, the supervisory nexus in the job description
merely jumped from page 13 to page 12. But it was
covered for that whole period of time.
JUSTICE ALITO: What was the most unpleasant
thing that Davis could have assigned the Petitioner to
do? Maybe chopping onions all day, every day?
MR. ORTIZ: Certainly within the -- within
the job duties that she traditionally did, the kind of
things she had to work with, what she had to do, things
like this, working with onions, chopping onions all day
might be punishment. Unfortunately again, though, the
record wasn't developed under an understanding that all
of this would be relevant.
JUSTICE ALITO: But that would materially
augment? Chopping onions all day would be enough?
MR. ORTIZ: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Chopping -- how about
chopping other things, just chopping? You are the
sous-chef, you are going to be chopping all day every
day. Would that be enough?
MR. ORTIZ: Possibly, Your Honor. It
depends, again, on questions which would depend upon how
you had to chop, how heavy the knives were, whether you
would get repetitive injuries.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Ortiz, did she ever
have that authority, because the record as far as we
have it says that the work assignments, what Vance was
doing, came from the chef or from Kimes, and the most
that Davis did was transmit the chef's orders of where
people would be stationed.
MR. ORTIZ: Your Honor, it is not quite
clear at this point. Vance, in an internal
investigation at Ball State University, Ms. Vance told
the compliance officer who was conducting the
investigation that Davis delegated jobs to her in the
kitchen. That appears in Document 59-16 on page 2.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, may I interrupt
a moment on --
MR. ORTIZ: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- following up on an
issue raised in part by the Chief and by Justice
Ginsburg. Assuming that Davis was a direct supervisor,
would there be an affirmative defense available to the
employer?
MR. ORTIZ: For sure, Your -- for sure, Your
Honor.
position?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That this could not be
grounds that someone who directs an employee's
day-to-day activity should be treated like someone who
hasn't actually undertaken the threat because the
situations are different.
MR. ORTIZ: Yes, Your Honor. This is --
this falls out of the structure of the affirmative
defense as laid out in Ellerth and Faragher.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that what this fight
is about? What if we were to say that the EEOC's test
governed or the Second Circuit test governed, but
because of the nature of the difference between formal
supervisors who take tangible work activities and
informal supervisors who the employer would have less
control over and less knowledge about their activities,
that we would require an employee to complain. Would
that be a crazy rule, and why?
MR. ORTIZ: That this Court would require
under those circumstances?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would require, would
permit the affirmative defense to be raised by an
employer.
MR. ORTIZ: It doesn't actually map on well
to the structure of the affirmative defenses laid out in
Ellerth and Faragher.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, but there is a
difference between those supervisors who take direct
activity, tangible direct actions, who are in power to
do that, and supervisors who don't have that power,
because supervisors who don't have that power are
supervised -- their actions are supervised in a way that
non-tangible employment supervisors are not.
MR. ORTIZ: But under the existing
affirmative -- affirmative defense, as I understand it,
Your Honor, an employee who doesn't complain, unless
they are reasonable in not complaining, in most cases
would make the affirmative defense unavailable to the
employer. Is it the question concerning the difference
between unreasonably failing to complain --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, it's whether,
whether or not this whole fight is over that issue.
MR. ORTIZ: That -- this whole -- the fight
is in -- in part about that issue. That is certainly
not the only --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, because it's also
about the burden of proof.
MR. ORTIZ: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if we keep the burden
of proof with respect to -- to the employer raising the
affirmative defense, does that solve half your problem?
MR. ORTIZ: Yes, Your Honor. It makes it
better.
And this Court has recognized the
affirmative defense appropriately allocates the burdens
between the employee and the employer going forward.
Your Honor, the Seventh Circuit rule,
although unsupported by Respondent, is supported by
several of the Respondents' amici. As I said, they tend
to oversell the determinativeness of the Seventh Circuit
rule. They exaggerate the -- the uncertainty that
they predict will happen under the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would you tell me what
you see as the major difference between the EEOC and the
Second Circuit rule, and why one is compelled over the
other?
It's the regulatory agency charged with
oversight of -- of the implementation of the statute.
Why shouldn't we give deference to it on --
MR. ORTIZ: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the standard it sets
forth?
MR. ORTIZ: -- it is -- it is entitled to
deference under Skidmore, no more. And it is our
understanding, although the government --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Why -- why --
why no more? Why just Skidmore?
MR. ORTIZ: Because it's -- it's only
informal guidance, Your Honor. It hasn't gone through
rulemaking, formal adjudication and those processes
which elevate the amount of deference --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's an absolute rule?
MR. ORTIZ: Well, Your Honor, it's a little
bit contentious on this Court. No, Your Honor, it's a
little bit contentious on this Court; but, following
Mead Products, for example, it wouldn't be entitled to
more than Skidmore -- deference.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Have you answered the
argument it shouldn't get any deference because what --
what the EEOC guidance does is it is -- it is
interpreting two decisions of this Court, and this
Court, not the EEOC, is in the best position to
determine what those two cases mean?
MR. ORTIZ: Well, what it is, Your Honor, is
it represents an interpretation of the word "agent" in
Title VII.
Now, where -- where the statute -- the
statutory term gives off and this Court's interpretation
begins is, in some cases, a tough question.
But in this case, the EEOC -- the EEOC is
really giving definition to the word "agent" in Title
VII, not so much this Court's interpretations in
Faragher and Ellerth.
If there are no further questions, Your
Honor, I would like to reserve my remaining time for
rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Srinivasan?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN,
FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
IN SUPPORT OF NEITHER PARTY
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
When a person controls a subordinate's daily
work activities and subjects her to harassment, that
person qualifies as a supervisor for purposes of the
Faragher-Ellerth vicarious liability affirmative defense
framework.
When it controls daily work activities and,
therefore, for example, can compel the cleaning of
toilets for a year, the principle that the agency
relationship augments the ability to carry out the
harassment is implicated in that the victim will lack
the same ability to resist the harassment or to report
it as would be the case if the harassment were conducted
by a coworker that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about -- what
about the music hypothetical?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where -- where do
you think your test comes out on that?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I think it comes out, most
likely, against concluding that the person is a
supervisor. And the reason is that, under the EEOC
enforcement guidance, that accounts for situations in
which the authority is exercised over a limited field, a
limited number of tasks or assignments. And this is at
page 92(a) of the petition appendix.
And I think that would qualify under that
provision because it's limited.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why -- it doesn't
really have to do with the number of tasks. It isn't an
assignment of tasks. It's something that clearly
affects the daily activities of the employee in a way
that could be used to implement or facilitate
harassment.
MR. SRINIVASAN: It could, Your Honor. I
don't disagree with that, and I don't disagree that
there are going to be cases that raise issues at the
margins.
But one way to think about the spectrum of
options available to the Court today is to envision that
on one end, you have harassment that's perpetrated by a
coworker, and you consider the types of harassment that
that might entail. And on the other end, you have
harassment that's perpetrated by a supervisor with
authority over tangible employment actions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And -- and your
tests sort of use that, just as you've posed it, as some
broad continuum in which we're going to have countless
cases trying to figure out whether music falls closer to
this end or -- you know, what -- the senior employee
controls the thermostat, is that closer to this end or
that end? Or cutting onions?
It seems to me that every single case has
its own peculiar facts, and courts are going to be --
have to figure out where on the continuum it resides.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well -- well, I guess, Your
Honor, as Your Honor put it to -- to Petitioner's
counsel, the competing approach would be the approach
adopted by the Seventh Circuit; but, that approach has
some serious flaws.
For example, it wouldn't cover the
supervisor's conduct that was at issue in Faragher
itself, where the supervisor threatened that he would
make the harassment victim clean the toilets for a year
if she didn't succumb to the harassment. And I think
that's a pretty significant cost.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, isn't cleaning the
toilets a limited -- isn't the authority to decide who
cleans the toilets the same as the authority to decide
what the music is going to be? It's one thing.
I thought -- and your answer on the music
was, well, that probably wouldn't count because it's the
authority to decide just one thing.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, we don't -- I guess,
we don't know enough about the threat to force her to
clean the toilets for a year to know whether it's only
one thing. But it could be, for example, that if
there -- in the scope of a particular day, you have
three particular options as to what you might do,
monitor the beach, clean the facilities, including the
toilets, or prepare meals, then it's something that
covers the entire day.
JUSTICE ALITO: But your argument is if the
only authority was to decide who cleans the toilets,
then -- then that would not -- that wouldn't count,
because that's just one thing.
MR. SRINIVASAN: No, I think that -- I don't
think we have an answer to that until we know how much
of the day's work is encompassed by cleaning the
toilets.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought in Faragher it
was that -- that the lifeguard gave her her daily work
assignments. He controlled what she would do on the
job.
MR. SRINIVASAN: He -- he controlled every
aspect of her -- of her day's work, and cleaning the
toilets was one aspect of it. So that was a
particularly poignant example that he visited on her as
a way to perpetuate the harassment.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that can't possibly be
what the case means. Suppose that it's -- it's the
assignment of offices, and all of the offices except one
have heating and air conditioning, but one has no
heating and no air conditioning.
And so -- and that's the only authority that
this person has is to assign desks. That person says,
if you don't do whatever it is that I want you to do,
I'm putting you in the office where there's no heating,
and there's no air conditioning. And you would say that
doesn't count because it's just one thing. It's not a
broad range of authorities -- of authorities.
MR. SRINIVASAN: It doesn't constitute
authority over daily work activities. And I guess
that's what the EEOC guidance authorities --
JUSTICE BREYER: Have you --
MR. SRINIVASAN: We haven't encountered it
in real cases.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you've looked this
up. And apparently, for about a dozen years, the EEOC
has had, as -- as an alternative basis for qualifying as
a supervisor, the individual has authority to direct the
employee's daily work activities.
And in addition, we have three circuits that
for some period of years have been following roughly the
same kind of rule.
Now, has this problem of the country music
or the other problems raised, have they turned out to be
a significant problem in those circuits or for the EEOC?
MR. SRINIVASAN: They haven't,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: They have, or they have
not?
MR. SRINIVASAN: They have not. I'm sorry.
They have not turned out to be an issue, and
that's what --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do you know
that? Are you just saying they have not generated
actual Federal -- Federal court reported cases?
Do you have any idea how this works on the
ground when people complain about the exercise of
authority by a coworker who has specific
responsibilities that might be reviewed as supervisory?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, they haven't -- I
guess that's two components to the answer,
Mr. Chief Justice -- they haven't generated reported or
underreported decisions, as far as we've seen. And this
is not scientific, and it's just based on our
conversations with the EEOC lawyers who are charged with
dealing with right to sue letters and the like. They
haven't encountered these sorts of situations.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The EEOC lawyers
think the EEOC plan is working just fine.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, that -- I -- I
understand that that's not entirely surprising, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: But I guess they'd tell
you. There are three who signed the brief, or four.
And I guess they'd tell you, wouldn't they --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- what the problems are,
if they have problems.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Right. In our
conversations with them about the way in which these
issues arise --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, we can ask the
other side the same question. They've seen the cases in
the circuits. Have they seen instances in the EEOC or
before the circuits where it's turned out to be a
serious problem, like the country music or any of the
other hypotheticals raised?
MR. SRINIVASAN: And I don't think it has,
Justice Breyer.
And I think it's important to bear in mind
that the nature of this inquiry is such that there's
going to be cases at the margins that raise difficult
questions; but, in Ellerth, the Court recognized that.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I ask you how the
Seventh Circuit test works in operation?
We're in a university setting here, so let
me give you a university hypo. There's a professor, and
the professor has a secretary. And the professor
subjects that secretary to living hell, complete hostile
work environment on the basis of sex, all right? But
the professor has absolutely no authority to fire the
secretary. What would the Seventh Circuit say about
that situation?
MR. SRINIVASAN: That if there's no
authority over -- to -- to direct annual
employment actions, then --
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, no, the secretary is
fired by the head of secretarial services. Professors
don't have the ability to fire secretaries; but,
professors do have the ability to make secretarial lives
living hells. So what does the Seventh Circuit say
about that?
MR. SRINIVASAN: The professor would not
qualify as a supervisor for purposes of Ellerth-Faragher
framework.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Under the Seventh Circuit
test.
MR. SRINIVASAN: And so you'd look at it as
a -- you'd look at the professor as a coworker, and
you'd apply the same standards that applied to
harassment conducted by the coworker.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Even though, of course, it's
actually more difficult for the secretary to complain
about the professor than it would be for the secretary
to complain about the head of secretarial services.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes. And I think that's a
useful frame of reference that I was trying to
articulate earlier, which is that we can envision the
cases as falling on a spectrum between ability to
complain when the harassment is perpetrated by a
coworker on the one hand, and ability to complain when
harassment is perpetrated by a supervisor with tangible
employment authority --
JUSTICE KAGAN: And Mr. Srinivasan, if I can
just continue on about this, because I just don't even
understand the Seventh Circuit test. Would the Seventh
Circuit test also say that -- that that person is not a
supervisor even if the professor evaluates the secretary
on a yearly basis?
MR. SRINIVASAN: The Seventh Circuit would
say that as far as we can tell. They don't appear to
have a proviso for circumstances in which the harasser
has a role in determining tangible employment actions,
because that is one thing that the EEOC guidance takes
account of.
It's that -- not just that somebody counts
as a supervisor when they themselves undertake tangible
employment action, but if they have a substantial role
in making recommendations that in turn trigger tangible
employment actions, the EEOC would take the position
that that qualifies. Now, that's not an issue in this
case, but that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You've -- you've
talked several times about this going along the
spectrum. Where -- where are we supposed to cut off
the -- where's the cutting line in the spectrum?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think that the --
control over daily work activities is where we would
draw the line. And that's what has come up the most in
the cases. The reported decisions have conflicts on --
have a conflict on that issue, and that is where the
EEOC guidance draws the line.
Now, I think it would be helpful, if the
Court were going to issue an opinion that adopts that
line, to elaborate on -- on that line a little bit in
the following sense: That relaying instructions that
are -- that are disseminated by one person wouldn't
count for those purposes. That's in the EEOC guidance.
And -- and it's the functions of a job that actually
matter, not the job title. That is also in the EEOC
guidance.
So I think there are some aspects of the
EEOC guidance that elaborate on that line about control
over daily activities that I think I would commend to
the Court, that it might well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do we have a developed
record enough to do that in this case?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I'm sorry? I didn't hear
you.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do -- do we have a
developed record enough? Petitioner's counsel says we
don't, that the Seventh Circuit test didn't permit them
to develop the record sufficiently to clarify all of
these issues. We certainly have snippets or -- or lack
snippets, as the case may be. But is the record
sufficiently developed for the Court to even
pronounce -- make pronouncements of that nature?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I think -- I think the real
question, Justice Sotomayor, is whether the parties had
a sufficient opportunity to develop the record. Because
if you take the record in the case as a given, we think
that the record would support the grant of summary
judgment for Ball State University, because there isn't
a sufficient showing in the record if you take it as a
given that the relevant supervisory -- the relevant
putative supervisory employee, Davis, had control over
day-to-day work activities.
The question that remains is whether the
record should be allowed to be expanded.
JUSTICE ALITO: The conclusion in your brief
is that the judgment of the court of appeals should be
vacated and the case remanded for further proceedings,
and now -- now you are telling us that we should -- we
should basically write an opinion on summary judgment.
MR. SRINIVASAN: No. I think if you take
the record as a given, that a grant of summary judgment
in favor of the employer would be in order. But in the
normal course what this Court does when it announces a
new standard is it remands for the lower courts to deal
with the application of the standard to the facts. And
the conclusion in our brief is just, I think, a
parroting of that normal conclusion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Garre.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The judgment of the court of appeals should
be affirmed because the record establishes that the only
employees whose status is at issue lacked the
supervisory authority necessary to trigger vicarious
liability under Title VII.
JUSTICE ALITO: We took this case to decide
whether the Faragher and Ellerth -- and Ellerth
supervisory liability rule is limited to those harassers
who have the power to hire, fire, demote, promote,
transfer, or discipline their victim. And your answer
to that is no; is that right?
MR. GARRE: That's right. We don't think
the Seventh Circuit test is the complete answer to the
question of who may qualify as a supervisor. But we
think it's clear that the -- the person whose status is
at issue did not qualify and therefore, the judgment
should be affirmed. This Court --
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. Well, if we --
if we agree with that without having any party defending
the rule that was adopted by three circuits, then
surely -- well, then, why shouldn't we just remand this
case for the lower courts to decide this, this summary
judgment issue, and -- and permit further development of
the record if the record isn't fully developed?
MR. GARRE: Well, most importantly, Justice
Alito, because the courts need guidance on how to apply
the EEOC and the Second Circuit standard. The best way
to provide that guidance is to do what this Court often
does, which is to apply the facts to the standard.
In this case, applying the record facts to
the standard that we think applies, the "materially
enables the harassment" standard, it's clear that Ms.
Davis, the person who is at issue, does not qualify as a
supervisor. And the reason why it's clear is the record
is uncontradicted that either the chef or Mr. Kimes made
the daily assignments through the prep sheets. The prep
sheets are what every employee in the kitchen got each
day and they would tell you: Dice vegetables for 60
people; prepare boxed lunches for 20; prepare six
vegetable trays.
That's -- that was their daily assignments,
and the record is absolutely clear, JA 2 ­ 277 to 278, JA
424 -- that all the employees got the prep sheets from
the chef or Mr. Kimes.
It's also absolutely clear that Mr. Kimes
was the one who controlled the schedule in the kitchen.
He is the one that told employees what times of days
that they could work. He controlled the schedule.
JUSTICE ALITO: I understand Mr. Ortiz to
say that there's at least a dispute of fact about
whether Davis could have controlled what Petitioner did
on a daily basis.
MR. GARRE: There is -- there is neither a
material nor genuine dispute on that, Your Honor. It at
the very --
JUSTICE ALITO: Doesn't her job description
say that she can assign tasks in the kitchen?
MR. GARRE: But they -- they omit the -- the
clause that follows, which is critical, which is "via
demonstration, coaching, or overseeing to ensure
efficiency." That is on page Joint Appendix 13. And
that job description has to be read in light of the
record that makes crystal clear that it was the chef who
did the daily assignments for the prep sheets.
And there -- and there are examples of the
prep sheets as an exhibit to Ms. Fultz's affidavit, the
affidavits at 424 of the Joint Appendix. The -- the
exhibits are LLL and JJJ --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We didn't take this case
to -- to decide those factual questions.
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, you --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We really didn't. We took
it principally to decide whether the Seventh Circuit
rule was -- was right or not. And you don't even defend
that. So there is nobody here defending the Seventh
Circuit.
MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor has excellent
briefing defending the Seventh Circuit. The Chamber of
Commerce and other amici have defended it. We certainly
think that it -- that -- that it's a superior --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They are not talking to us
here, are they?
MR. GARRE: No, Your Honor. We think it's a
superior bright line, but, as we say in our brief, we
think that ultimately this Court's precedents compel
that the Court reject that. And I think most -- most
squarely we look at the Faragher decision. We look at
lifeguard Silverman in Faragher, who had the authority
to control all aspects of the victim's schedule and
daily activities in a virtually unchecked manner.
So if the Court is looking for an example
that it wants to point to of someone who could qualify
under the non-Seventh Circuit category, we think that
lifeguard Silverman, from this Court's precedents, would
be the example that this Court would hold out.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was that -- that question
wasn't presented. It was -- it was just assumed that --
that Silverman would qualify as a -- as a supervisor.
MR. GARRE: That -- that's absolutely right,
Justice Ginsburg. And I think, for some of the reasons
that Justice Kagan brought up in her colloquy with --
with Mr. Srinivasan, I think the logic of the Court's
precedents, agency principles adopted, would lead to the
conclusion that someone who does control virtually all
aspects of one's schedule but yet lacks the authority to
hire, fire, or demote, nevertheless still would be
qualified as someone who --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Every -- every
time -- every time you adopt a rule rather than a
multifactor analysis, there are going to be particular
cases that fall outside the rule that look like a harsh
result. Now, here it simply affects the nature. It
doesn't give any immunity for harassment, it just
affects the nature of the showing that might be made.
You have no difficulty, as representing an
employer, by saying that in every case an allegation of
this sort is made you have to go through a case-by-case
description of the particular responsibilities, whether
it's the thermostat, whether it's the music, whether
it's the assignment of everything -- that the employee
does, and decide on that basis whether or not you should
compensate the victim, or -- or whether or not you
should go to court?
MR. GARRE: We do have great difficulty,
Your Honor. First of all, if we are wrong about what
this Court's precedents compel, then this Court should
adopt the Seventh Circuit principle, and we've -- we've
said that in our brief, if we're wrong in our
understanding of the Court's precedents.
Secondly, we think that the -- the Court can
and should establish meaningful limits on what this
broader category of supervisors would require, and I
think the case law illustrates that. If you look at the
leading circuits who apply the standard --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I think -- I
think your friend on the other side was -- made a good
point in his reply brief, which is the variety of
circumstances you think courts should look at just
happen to correspond with the factual issues that you
would have resolved in your favor.
MR. GARRE: Well, I -- I would take issue
with that. We -- we tried to provide guideposts that
would be helpful. But if you look at, for example, the
principle that the EEOC agrees with, which -- which is
just that limited or marginal occasion authority to lead
or oversee by virtue of a paper title, its grade, or
seniority is not sufficient.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What does that have to do
with agency? That's what I don't understand. Why --
why do any of these tests have to do with agency?
MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, I can understand
Congress writing a statute that says -- you know, any --
any person given -- given authority by the employer,
which authority is used to make it more difficult for a
person to complain about racial or sexual harassment, is
bad. But the statute doesn't say that. It says apply
agency principles.
How does agency have anything to do with the
line you're arguing that we take here?
MR. GARRE: What this Court said in Faragher
and Ellerth -- and I appreciate that you dissented in
the case, but what this Court said was it adopted
Section 219(2)(d) of the Restatement (Second) of Agency,
the notion that if -- if there was -- if the employee
was aided in the accomplishment of the harassment by
virtue of an agency relation, that that would be the
agency trigger for liability.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Then why not leave it
there? If that's what the agency is --
MR. GARRE: And RMA then --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- then you don't need it
at all. So the music -- the music would -- the
thermostat would qualify. It would all qualify.
MR. GARRE: I don't think it would, Your
Honor, because we agree, certainly, with the EEOC that
there are material limits to how far that principle
could be stretched.
The Court in Ellerth made clear that there
were limits to the vicarious liability of employers in
this context.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? Why? I mean, if
that's your principle, apply the principle.
MR. GARRE: Well, for the very --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you are aided -- you
know, you're going to work in a cold room unless you --
you know, comply with my sexual advances, apply the
principle. What's so hard about that? That's a clear
line.
MR. GARRE: This is the balance I think that
the Court struck in Ellerth, Your Honor, which was -- it
took into account that the statute was passed against
the backdrop of agency principles; but, yet, Congress
also was cognizant that imposing vicarious liability on
the employer for acts that the Court recognized were not
themselves authorized by the employer, that that was a
punitive aspect of that, and the Court would establish
limits.
And I think our position takes into account
that there have to be limits in this area, on the extent
of vicarious liability, in order to give effect to
Congress's intent; but, also recognizes, in the
situation like you had with the lifeguard in Faragher,
that that person did have authority that would assist in
the harassment ­ date me or clean the toilets, as
the lifeguard in Faragher said.
And so the Court, I think, struck a
reasonable balance. And taking the balance and what
this Court said, we think the proper way to resolve this
case is to adopt something like the EEOC rule or the
Second Circuit rule, but to make clear there are limits.
And the best way to make clear that there are limits is
to make clear that on the record in this case Ms. Davis
did not qualify as a supervisor.
Now, my friend said they didn't have the
opportunity to develop evidence to the contrary; but,
the fact is, from the outset, they litigated this case
as if the Seventh Circuit standard did not apply.
The reasons that they gave for why Ms. Davis
was a supervisor, in the lower court, was that, one,
they pointed to the job description, that she had this
other authority to "lead and direct," and they also
pointed to the fact that she didn't clock in.
Those are irrelevant under the Seventh
Circuit test. So all along, they had in their mind that
they wanted to try to show that Davis was different, and
it did have some marginal authority to lead --
JUSTICE ALITO: What guidance would your --
what guidance would the kind of opinion that you're
suggesting we write really provide? The -- the guidance
would be that if someone has no authority to assign
daily work, then that person isn't -- and also has no
authority to hire, fire, promote, et cetera, then that
person isn't a supervisor.
How much guidance is that?
MR. GARRE: I think it's a lot of guidance,
Justice Alito. I think that the flip side of that is
the Court would make clear that merely having some
occasional or marginal authority to lead or direct by
virtue of one's better paper title or seniority is not
sufficient to trigger vicarious liability. I think
that's going to resolve the mine-run of the cases in
which this question has come up and been litigated, at
least to the courts of appeals.
If you look, for example, at the difference
between something like the Mack case out of the Second
Circuit and the Mikels case out of the Fourth Circuit,
in Mikels, we had an example of two police officers, one
had a higher paper rank, corporal versus private, and it
was alleged that the corporal was a supervisor. And the
court said, no, no, no, he's not a supervisor, all there
is, is some marginal occasional authority. That's not
sufficient.
It was clear that the victim in that case
wasn't shy about telling the harasser where to go, to
tell him off. And that's the kind of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But why should that --
why should that matter? I know you said that in your
brief, Mr. Garre, if the -- if the alleged victim talked
back.
But in one of the very first cases that we
had in this line, Harris v. Forklift, there was -- it
was the boss, so there was no question about supervisor,
and he was really making things hard for this employee;
but, she was very firm, and she talked back to him.
But, still, that's not what we said that
counted. We said, is she being subjected to terms and
conditions of employment that she would not be subjected
to but for her sex.
MR. GARRE: Right. And we -- we don't think
that that's a dispositive criterion. We recognize the
point that the person gets to establish superior ability
to stand up to despicable treatment. But I think what
our point is, is that it's part of the equation that you
would look at.
In essence, did the person treat the alleged
harasser like a co-employee, or did the person treat the
alleged harasser like a supervisor? And in this case,
the record is clear that she treated her like a
co-employee, someone who -- they obviously had
disagreements among them.
And I think that's what we take this piece
of evidence to assist the Court on the question
presented. I think -- but we think what was sufficient
to resolve the question presented is the clear and
unrefuted evidence that the prep sheets, the daily
activities were assigned by the chef or Mr. Kimes, that
Mr. Kimes had the authority to control the schedule.
And if you want to go further than that, the
record also shows that Mr. Kimes had the authority to
review -- to do annual reviews. Mr. Kimes had the
authority to evaluate. He had all the kind of authority
that one would expect in a supervisor.
And so you would ask the question, what's
left? Essentially nothing. And whatever is left, we
agree with the EEOC, is not, as a matter of law,
sufficient to trigger vicarious liability.
That doesn't mean she can't present her
claim. It -- it means that it's just simply analyzed
under the framework for co-workers, in which she bears
the burden of establishing that the employer was
negligent in not responding to it.
And as Judge Wood, for the court of appeals,
and Judge Barker made clear in their detailed opinions,
this was not a situation where the employer stuck its
head in the sand and ignored incidents of unpleasantries
or, in some cases, despicable racial epithets --
JUSTICE ALITO: If you were willing to
concede that this would be a close case under the Second
Circuit standard or under the EEOC guidance, then there
might be an argument in favor of our applying those
tests -- or one of those tests to the facts of the case,
because then that might provide some guidance, even
though we are supposed to be a court of review, not a
court of first view.
But you're saying this is an extremely weak
case under those standards; and, therefore, what is --
what benefit is there in our applying this? Just send
it back and have it done in the normal course by the
court of appeals or by the district court.
MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor, we don't think
it's a close case, but my friend does, and his amici do.
And I think the damaging signal that this Court would
send by remanding on this record would be that, whatever
it might say in its opinion, that would have virtually
no force in terms of establishing a standard that made
clear that this -- whatever else may be true about what
would qualify, something like this does not qualify.
And, again, like this Court did in the
Global Tech case, when the Court establishes a standard,
oftentimes, it applies the standard to the facts and
appreciates that that's the best way, the most judicial
way of providing guidance on what that standard means.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, there is one
BSU internal document that -- a note to the file by a
compliance officer, who apparently investigated one of
the complaints, that says that -- Kimes is recorded as
saying -- he's the avowed supervisor -- that he, quote,
"knows Davis has given direction to Vance, and that he
just doesn't know what else to do."
Doesn't that defeat summary judgment on its
face?
MR. GARRE: It doesn't, Your Honor, if you
agree with our principle, that the EEOC also agrees
with, that having some limited or marginal authority to
lead or direct, as a matter of law, is not sufficient.
So that that piece of evidence, giving it its
reasonable inference, would not be sufficient to create
a material issue. It also wouldn't be sufficient
creating -- looking at the body of the evidence, which
makes crystal clear that the prep sheets are really what
was driving the daily activities in this workplace. And
it was Kimes or the chef that did the prep sheets, not
Ms. Davis at all.
And it -- and it was also not material in
light of the evidence that Mr. Kimes did the schedule.
Ms. Davis was asked at her deposition on
page 135, quote, "Was there ever" -- "have you ever been
assigned to a less meaningful or fulfilling job
classification?" And her response was yes, and she
pointed to an example by Mr. Kimes, because it was
Mr. Kimes who had the authority to make those
assignments, not Ms. Davis.
So the mere fact that you've got some
marginal evidence drawn from snippets, giving it a
reasonable inference that she at times had some ability
to lead or direct, as the job description says, "by
coaching, demonstration or overseeing," is not
sufficient as a matter of law to entitle her to summary
judgment, nor do we think that this Court should take
the unusual step of remanding so that she can dig into
events six years old through new discovery.
Again --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Garre, could I ask you
about that? You said before that there is no -- nothing
to suggest that she left anything on the table because
of the nature of the Seventh Circuit standard.
So what's the best place in the record for
us to look -- to decide that question as to whether she
at all didn't present or didn't develop evidence because
of the nature of the Seventh Circuit standard?
MR. GARRE: Well, first, I would look at her
summary judgment briefs, Your Honor, and in those briefs
she argued that Davis was a supervisor because, one,
under the job description she had the authority to lead
and direct, the same sorts of things that we are talking
now and would be talking about under the EEOC and Second
Circuit tests. And, two, she points to the fact that
they didn't clock in, again something that is irrelevant
under the Seventh Circuit test.
So this wasn't a case where the litigant
felt themselves bound by the legal standard and one
could surmise that they would have pursued it
differently. I think I would look at that first. And
then I would look at her deposition transcript which is
in the Joint Appendix and the three affidavits that she
put in, in this case, which are in the Joint Appendix.
At some point you would expect her to come
along and try to rebut the notion that Mr. Kimes and
Ms. Fultz assigned the daily activities through the prep
sheets. In fact, it's just the contrary. If anything,
in her own affidavit she seems to accept that the prep
sheets were done by Kimes and the chef. That's at JA
430. You -- you would expect her to contest the notion
that Mr. Kimes was the one who did the scheduling, who
did her annual reviews, who disciplined her on occasion.
After all, she was claiming that Davis was the
supervisor, and she didn't feel bound by the Seventh
Circuit tests.
So you would expect to see some indication
of how Ms. Davis actually assigned her something to do,
changed her schedule, the like. Instead what you find
is all those sorts of allegations, she made them, but
all those sorts of allegations were directed to Mr.
Kimes. That was the basis for her retaliation claim,
which isn't before the Court. But there are all the
sorts of things that you might expect one to complain
about against a supervisor in this sort of vein: She
made me cut vegetables instead of doing the baking like
I like to do; she didn't assign me enough overtime so I
could make more money; she changed my hours.
Those allegations were made. They were directed
at Mr. Kimes and that's perfectly consistent with the
record evidence. There was Kimes and the chef who had
the authority to do her daily activities, and Kimes had
the authority to do the schedule.
It's not enough for her to come here today,
I don't think, and just speculate that having an
opportunity to go through greater discovery, which in
essence would amount to a fishing expedition, the Court
should take the unusual step of remanding to give her an
opportunity for discovery. This Court -- although we
acknowledge oftentimes this Court does remand for the
lower courts to undertake that inquiry, it certainly
doesn't always do so. So Global-Tech is one example;
we've cited many more in our briefs.
And here, I think, again, the parties --
there is broad agreement on what the standard should be.
Something like the EEOC or Second Circuit test is, we
think, the best way to frame it. But given the debate
among the parties about what that test means and how it
applies to Davis here, I think it's absolutely critical
for the Court to apply the legal test to the record
facts and hold that Ms. Davis is not a supervisor and to
affirm the judgment below.
Although it's not before this Court, if one
wants to go to the next step and think about the
affirmative defenses and the like, this isn't a case
where the Court would be putting to rest a valid Title
VII claim.
But the claim was extensively looked at
below by Judge Barker in the district court, Judge Wood
and her colleagues on the court of appeal, and they
found an environment in which Ball State reacted
responsibly to the allegations that were made,
investigated them and took prompt action where the
investigation warranted it, particularly with respect to
the most despicable things that were uncovered, racial
epithets that were used by another employee,
Ms. McVicker, not Ms. Davis.
The only allegations against Ms. Davis that
we think are relevant here during the time period that
Ms. Davis was a part-time employee were: One, the
so-called elevator incident where Ms. Davis allegedly
blocked Ms. Vance as she got out of the elevator, which
isn't race-based at all, we don't think; and two, the
alleged use of words like "Sambo" or
"Buckwheat" to refer --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Ortiz said it wasn't
just part-time. He called my attention to the page
before that says she also -- that Davis also directed --
MR. GARRE: Well, we disagree with that,
Your Honor. If you look on page JA 12, the job
description position function, the last sentence says,
"Requires leadership of up to 20 part-time substitute
and student employees." So we think it's clear.
We said -- this is in our red brief and
there wasn't any response to it in the yellow brief --
that any authority, any conceivable supervisory
authority, could have only existed when Ms. Vance was a
part-time employee.
But we don't think that that's relevant,
Your Honor, because putting -- putting aside whether she
had authority over catering assistants who were part
time or full time, the record is absolutely clear that
Ms. Davis just lacked the authority that would have been
sufficient to trigger vicarious liability. And again we
think the paradigm case where that authority is present
is something like the lifeguard in Silverman where they
control all aspects of the daily activities, one's
schedule, one's daily work assignments, and down the
line.
Here there is no evidence that any of that
authority that was possessed, and the record makes clear
beyond doubt that all that authority was possessed by
others, Ms. -- the chef and Mr. Kimes.
And I think, as the amicus brief makes
clear, this is consistent with workplaces across America
today, where jobs are less hierarchical, more
collaborative, and so where you have got more senior
employees by virtue of their experience or job title,
just a paper title, are in a broad sense team leaders of
the like in the workplace.
That doesn't mean they are supervisors in
any traditional sense, and it certainly doesn't mean
they are supervisors for purposes of triggering
vicarious liability under Title VII.
So for those reasons, we would urge this
Court to affirm the judgment below, to make clear in
order to provide the needed guidance to the courts of
appeals and the assumption that something like the EEOC
or Second Circuit standard does apply to determine who
is a supervisor triggering vicarious liability. Ms.
Davis, the only employee who is at issue, does not meet
that standard.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. GARRE: If you have no more questions,
thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Ortiz, you have
4 more minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DANIEL R. ORTIZ
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ORTIZ: Thank you, Your Honor.
The Seventh Circuit rule is not one that can
be justified in terms of its superior judicial
manageability, administrability, despite producing a few
odd results.
As Justice Kagan's question revealed, it
produces truly perverse results. Someone who can tell
you what to do in your job day-to-day, manage you during
the whole job period, what kind of tasks you have to do,
was not necessarily considered a supervisor, while the
person upstairs in human resources that you may never
see or even know would be considered your supervisor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if you adopted that
rule I suppose you could couple it with an increased
duty of care on the part of the employer to take
necessary steps to prevent forbidden harassment. In
other words, you up the duty of care on the part of the
employer generally.
MR. ORTIZ: Well, Justice Kennedy, that in
fact is one thing the Seventh Circuit has tried to do,
but it dispels any kind of certainty and predictability
in the rule, because the duty of care of course would be
determined by a jury only after hearing a particular
case.
Second, my friend tries to get out from
under the clear import of the job description here by
saying directing and leading somehow don't count because
that is accomplished through oversight. Oversight,
however, is a common synonym for supervision itself.
It's merely a dog chasing its own tail.
Third, it's no surprise that many of the
things that Ms. Vance referred to, the particular
instance she referred to went back to William Kimes. Of
course, is that related to the retaliation part of her
claim, which is not before this Court.
Also, Your Honor, Faragher in the end is not
a toilet cleaning case. The district court did not
find -- made no finding on that. The court of appeals
didn't mention it. This Court in its Faragher opinion
mentioned only that it was an allegation in the
complaint.
It is not clear -- the allegation of the
complainant was that he said that, not that Silverman
actually had that authority. And it was clear from the
case that he actually wasn't interested in even dating
Faragher, it was just a way of humiliating her in the
workplace. So just as Faragher's expressed, it was not
clear that was even something that Silverman had
authority to do.
And finally, if this Court is worried about
sending signals, think about what kind of signal it will
be sending to litigants in the future if it were to
affirm, simply affirm here. In the future, whenever
anyone is thinking that they may want to challenge a
rule, no matter how well-settled it is in a particular
circuit, they would have an incentive to, through
discovery, to produce information that might be relevant
to any future twist.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, is there any? You
said he went through, you weren't preceding on the --
your client, originally in district court, not preceding
on the basis of this straight Seventh Circuit test. He
had the EEOC look into it; the Government itself says
that we should affirm and they have EEOC lawyers on it.
And so is there any piece of information
that would be relevant that you know of that you would
introduce, were it sent back, say to the district court,
that you have not already introduced?
MR. ORTIZ: Well, Your Honor, first, the
Solicitor General's office does not now take the
position that affirmance is proper.
JUSTICE BREYER: I read what they said in
the last page of their brief. They said either affirm,
that was their first thing, or send it back. Okay. Now
my question remains the same.
MR. ORTIZ: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there --
MR. ORTIZ: There is.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is it?
MR. ORTIZ: On page 197 of the Joint
Appendix, in the deposition testimony of Ms. Vance, she
says that Davis told her what to do, what not to do. In
the internal memo to the file that Justice Sotomayor
pointed to, William Kimes, who had the authority --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think Justice Breyer's
question was what's not in the record?
MR. ORTIZ: Oh, what's not -- I'm sorry,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have something
that's not in the record that will materially add to
this discourse?
MR. ORTIZ: Yes, Your Honor. Thank you.
In document number 62-3, which concerns the
deposition testimony of another employee -- is not in
the Joint Appendix, which -- which -- which is the
deposition testimony of another employee named Julie
Murphy. Ms. Murphy testifies that Davis, quote unquote,
gave orders in the kitchen. That's on page 24, I
believe.
On page 38, she testifies that Davis was
understood as a supervisor.
And on page 37, she indicates that she
received particular orders from Davis to do different
things, like clean a particular piece of kitchen
equipment, at different times.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's all in the
record in this Court.
MR. ORTIZ: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just not in the
Joint Appendix.
MR. ORTIZ: Just not in the Joint Appendix,
Your Honor.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., he case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
21:2 37:17 40:25 42:2 44:23 21:16 35:1,7 48:15 49:1
29:1,3 adopted 7:14 allegation 6:7 48:11,12 56:18 assignment 8:8
47:6 22:24 33:10 37:6 55:2,4 57:7,22,23 21:21 24:17
58:4 53:25 49:4,12 50:20 32:7 assignments
advances 40:2 alleged 42:15,24 11:14 28:17 24:8 34:1,6
36:14 adverse 4:17 allegedly 51:4 33:21 45:21 assist 40:19
51:25 8:25 allocates 18:8 50:7 43:23
48:11 America 52:13 39:23 40:2 assumption 53:1
52:24 55:15,15 35:19 45:12 applying 33:20 attention 51:10
affirmance 9:22 20:13 52:12 appreciate 39:2 8:6 14:20
15:23 16:11,25 analysis 6:6 approach 6:19 August 13:19,20
50:21 18:4,8 20:20 analyzed 44:14 22:24 25:1,4
17:7,10 33:7 announce 10:14 area 40:15 12:1,5,7 13:3,9
28:3 agency 18:20 announces 32:5 argued 47:24 15:6 21:14
20:24 36:18 annual 28:2 arguing 38:25 22:10 23:8,9
16:17,19 39:4,7,8,10 answer 23:11 2:2,5,9,12 3:3 25:3,11 26:6
21:22 40:8 24:3 26:9 3:7 19:17 27:23 28:2
30:5 agent 19:23 20:4 32:25 33:3 20:12 23:23 29:5 32:19
31:19 agree 3:13,18 answered 19:16 32:12 45:1 36:3,20 38:10
44:2 10:23 33:9 apparently 25:9 53:11 38:19,20 40:19
48:15 39:16 44:11 46:1 articulate 28:25 41:12,17,21,23
52:5 46:9 appeal 50:18 aside 51:23 42:4,17 44:3,5
agrees 38:9 46:9 32:16 42:9 aspect 24:11,12 47:2,25 49:15
14:22 23:7,23 appears 15:16 24:21 34:22 40:11
blocked 51:5 31:7,13,24 34:9 35:3 44:2 38:3
45:9 25:20,21 26:20 45:12,20 48:6 15:21 20:10,16 classification
56:4,11 26:24 27:4,11 48:12 50:13 21:5,8,19 46:25
31:22 32:8 22:2,14 25:7 57:18,21 58:1 20:23 23:7
15:13 38:2 42:24 29:1 30:7 37:1 chopping 14:11 cleans 23:9,24
50:19 51:17,18 52:12 42:7 43:1 14:15,20,22,23 clear 6:4,6 15:12
briefs 47:23,23 5:20,24 37:7 6:10,12,13,14 39:19 40:3
27:22 broad 22:13 6:20,25 7:5 11:14 16:15 46:16 51:16,25
34:17 25:1 50:3 10:8,8,10,13 18:10,13,18 52:9,13,24
49:5 52:17 36:8 37:22 22:24 27:17,24 54:13 55:4,6
broader 37:22 catering 11:23 28:8,13 29:8,9 55:10
3:8 burdens 18:8 14:12 17:22 44:25 47:17,21 closer 22:14,16
53:12 Burlington 3:16 31:6 35:19 48:3,5,24 50:4 coaching 34:25
13:20 52:20 55:18,24 cognizant 40:9
C certainty 54:8 circuits 7:14 cold 40:1
called 51:10 challenge 55:16 27:7 33:10 52:15
33:17 carry 20:25 changed 49:2,11 Circuit's 5:23 colloquy 36:16
45:22 case 3:4,11 5:1,6 charged 18:20 6:19 9:22 come 30:6 42:8
50:5 5:11 7:8 9:5,23 26:13 11:17 48:13 49:17
31:22 32:8,9 controls 20:17 49:22,23 50:8 30:21 34:1,6
conditioning 26:13 27:2 54:25 55:1,12 44:1 46:17
conditions 43:8 42:15 57:19 52:5,6
23:2 cost 23:6 8:14 22:19 damaging 45:13
37:16 28:18 20:10 22:23 38:3 42:9 2:3,13 3:7
confined 13:13 count 3:12,22 8:23 10:3 20:1 40:20
conflicts 30:7 23:12,25 24:25 36:9,17 37:16 Davis 9:7 11:1
26:5 40:8 counted 43:7 cover 13:17 23:1 14:10 15:9,15
29:2 Congress's countless 22:13 covered 14:8 15:22 31:18
38:21 40:17 country 4:10,11 covers 23:22 33:23 34:16
connection 5:8 8:17 25:16 coworker 21:4 41:3,9,16 46:4
consider 22:7 counts 3:11 28:16,18 29:3 47:24 48:22
53:22,24 couple 54:1 43:17,20 51:1,3,4,11
11:10 32:5 45:9 54:9 co-workers 6:25 56:19 57:9,12
10:10 court 1:1,12 crazy 16:21 Dawn 12:19
constitute 25:2 10:25 12:6,12 criterion 43:11 14:24,25 23:18
15:14 19:12,13 19:12,13,19,20 50:7 days 34:12
contest 48:19 20:16 22:5 crystal 35:3 day's 24:4,11
continuum 31:23 32:5,15 20:13 deal 32:6
48:16 37:13,16,20 22:17 30:3 debilitating 5:7
16:19 30:5,20 40:10,12,22,24 D 23:8,9,13,24
44:3 52:5 43:23 44:18 daily 4:12 6:2 35:10,13 37:11
24:10 34:11,13 45:13,19,20 21:22 24:7 decision 36:2
30:7 53:2 48:21 27:6 29:16,22 37:6 38:19
develop 31:5,12 10:20 48:2 50:4 53:1 employer-con...
16:12,25 developed 11:9 dispels 54:8 EEOC's 16:14 employment
18:4 11:16 14:17 dispositive effect 40:16 6:24 17:11
20:20 30:23 31:3,8 43:11 efficiency 35:1 22:10 28:3
development disseminated either 7:22 9:24 43:8
Dice 34:3 dissented 39:2 elaborate 30:12 enables 3:21
16:16 17:6,17 9:22 10:2,3,5 elevate 19:9 encompassed
47:8 5:15 11:14 55:23 56:4 17:4 20:6 25:6 26:15
57:15,17 division 12:14 39:2,19 40:6 21:13
12:15 48:9 45:25 57:5 28:11 entail 22:8
48:10 37:14 door 5:18 4:13,14 7:5,5 entitled 19:1,14
57:6,8 dig 47:11 doubt 52:10 8:25 12:18 environment
13:10 25:11 28:2 drawn 47:5 21:22 22:15 envision 22:5
14:6 41:12 42:4 draws 30:9 31:18 34:2 28:25
35:2 46:11 47:7 driving 46:17 37:10 39:5 epithet 10:12
41:11 48:1 duties 13:25 43:4 50:24 epithets 13:9
51:14 directed 12:22 14:13 51:3,21 53:4 44:22 50:24
49:4,12 51:11 duty 54:2,4,9 57:6,8 equally 9:11
44:22 direction 46:4 E 12:15,23 14:1 57:17
director 12:13 E 2:1 3:1,1 32:18 34:8,12 ESQ 1:15,17,21
disagreements 19:18,20 20:3 employer 4:6 Essentially
18:13 discipline 32:25 25:4,9,18 16:18 17:1,17 establish 37:21
45:20 explain 7:17 figure 22:14,20 45:12 54:12 given 31:13,17
45:16 extensively finally 55:12 fulfilling 46:24 46:4 50:5
47:12 fire 13:4 27:23 Fultz 48:15 Global-Tech
face 10:14 46:7 36:21 41:23 function 51:14 go 5:23 12:9
41:6 facilitate 21:23 fired 28:5 functions 30:16 37:7,13 42:20
44:1 facilities 23:20 firm 43:5 further 20:7 44:4 49:19
fact 34:15 41:7 first 10:13 11:8 31:24 33:13 50:12
49:14 41:13 47:4 12:13 37:15 44:4 going 4:7,11 5:1
48:3,16 54:7 43:1 45:5 future 55:14,15 5:1 6:6 7:6
45:21 50:9 fishing 49:20 G 22:2,13,19
38:4 five 4:5 32:12 30:1,11 36:25
10:12 falling 29:1 following 15:20 33:2,15 34:18 governed 16:15
20:23 falls 16:11 22:14 19:13 25:14 34:23 35:11,17 16:15
24:13 far 4:21,24 5:16 30:13 35:23 36:14 government
38:8 15:6 26:11 follows 34:24 37:14 38:6,16 19:3 55:25
47:1 29:13 39:17 forbidden 54:3 39:1,11,15,24 grade 38:11
Faragher 3:14 force 23:15 40:5 42:1,24 grant 31:14 32:3
Faragher's 55:9 forward 7:6 General's 56:7 ground 26:5
feel 48:23 frame 28:24 15:22 19:16 25:4 29:16
felt 48:7 50:5 24:6 36:11,15 30:9,15,18,20
field 21:14 20:21 28:12 give 6:5 18:22 41:19,20,25
52:25 36:21 41:23 implementation interpretations judged 5:20
8:15 13:16 imposes 3:25 46:1 50:21 52:24
29:14 17:14 18:5,10 incident 13:20 15:13,15 50:22 Julie 57:8
43:17,18 18:23 19:7,11 51:4 irrelevant 41:14 jumped 14:7
21:25 22:22,22 44:21 issue 15:21 54:10
4:1 8:1 38:16 39:16 increased 54:1 30:8,11 32:18 4:24 5:12,21
10:5 40:6 45:11 indeterminati... 33:6,13,23 7:17 8:7,16,21
20:18 46:8 47:23 6:10,11 38:6 46:14 9:4,16 10:23
51:13,23 53:13 indicates 57:14 53:4 11:8,12,22
23:4,5 54:23 56:6,25 indication 48:25 issues 22:2 27:3 12:3,4 13:1,12
28:18 57:4,24 individual 25:11 31:6 38:4 13:24 14:9,19
33:22 hostile 27:21 inference 46:13 item 13:23 14:22 15:5,17
38:21 hours 6:1 49:11 47:6 15:20,21 16:2
40:20 human 53:23 informal 16:18 J 16:5,13,24
humiliating 19:7 JA 34:7,7 48:18 17:5,19,24
43:4 hurled 10:12 55:19 56:2 January 13:21 19:4,10,16
44:21 21:6 instance 54:20 13:10,17 14:6 24:15 25:5,8
I instructions 46:24 47:7,25 28:4,13,19
immunity 6:5 internal 12:24 14:2 35:1,7 35:21 36:11,15
impair 5:9 56:20 57:7,22,23 38:13,17 39:9
45:24 16:19 39:17,20 40:13 manner 36:5 mine-run 42:7
51:9 knows 46:4 40:15 41:1,2 map 17:2 minutes 53:10
Knox 12:19 line 5:14 30:3,6 March 13:20 moment 15:18
55:21 30:9,12,12,20 marginal 38:10 Monday 1:9
L 35:24 38:25 41:17 42:4,17 money 49:11
57:1 lack 21:1 31:6 40:4 43:2 52:7 46:10 47:5 monitor 23:20
58:1 lacked 32:18 listen 6:1 margins 22:3 morning 3:4
27:16 46:11 47:9 little 3:19 6:18 materially 3:22 36:25
lawyers 26:13 7:6 19:11,13 7:18 8:6,25 Murphy 57:9,9
36:16 26:16 56:1 30:12 14:19 33:21 music 4:7,10,11
lead 11:24 36:18 lives 28:7 57:2 5:8,8,25 8:17
leaders 52:17 lodged 9:12 47:9 55:17 39:13,13
33:25 51:15 long 4:7,11 McVicker 50:25 N
44:2,3 leading 14:1 look 9:24 10:2 Mead 19:14 N 2:1,1 3:1
46:2,18 37:24 54:14 28:15,16 36:2 meals 23:21 named 12:19
47:1,2 leave 39:9 36:2 37:1,23 mean 5:12 11:2 57:8
led 12:22 38:3,8 42:10 13:1 19:21 nature 10:10,11
left 44:10,10 43:15 47:19,22 27:4 38:17 16:16 27:13
54:20 47:16 48:9,10 51:13 39:22 44:13 31:9 37:2,4
legal 3:19 11:10 55:25 52:19,20 47:17,21
25:15 letters 26:14 25:8 50:16 meaningful 53:22
42:21 Let's 4:4 looking 36:6 37:21 46:24 necessary 32:19
53:21 liability 3:25 46:15 means 4:14 7:18 54:3
55:13 9:20 20:20 lot 8:11 42:1 24:16 44:14 need 33:16
34:2,11 39:20 40:9,16 41:10 49:24 meant 8:23 needed 52:25
57:10,16 42:6 44:12 lunches 34:4 meet 53:4 negligence 7:2
8:13,18 24:7 36:3,9 Mack 42:11 mentioned 55:2 20:14 34:18
22:15 40:18,21 52:4 MAETTA 1:3 mere 47:4 never 53:23
24:3 light 35:2 46:21 major 18:17 merely 14:7 nevertheless
38:18 limited 21:14,15 making 29:21 42:3 54:17 36:21
42:23 21:18 23:8 43:4 met 7:9 new 32:6 47:12
53:24 32:23 38:10 manage 53:20 Mikels 42:12,13 nexus 10:15
46:10 manageability mind 11:9 27:12 14:6
32:1 41:19 overtly 10:9,11 51:2 53:21 13:9 14:4 16:3
opinions 44:19 P 31:4 33:13 40:14 51:14
8:4 31:12 41:6 page 2:2 12:17 22:6,9 29:2,4 positions 14:3
opposing 12:11 14:2,7,7 15:16 24:14 52:10
3:7 20:12 57:12,14 30:14 33:5,23 17:8,9 32:24
57:5 52:25 paradigm 52:3 43:16,17 53:23 37:16,19
4:16 5:4,19 6:8 partial 11:20 1:16 2:4,14 3:8 prep 34:1,1,8
13:7,16 14:12 54:10,19 55:17 22:22 31:3 prepare 23:21
15:11,19,25 particularly pick 4:7 present 11:13
19:6,11,22 31:11 50:2,6 place 47:18 36:12 43:24,25
53:9,11,13 20:14 33:9 plan 26:17 pretty 23:6
49:23 57:4,20,23 14:5 51:3,10 20:16 32:15 35:13
oversell 18:13 perform 5:16 56:21 probably 11:16
22:17 54:15,15 5:9 police 42:13 problem 18:4
qualifies 20:19 43:4 46:16 related 54:21 Respondents
qualifying 25:10 reasoning 3:14 51:22 55:19 responsibilities
question 9:5 10:3,21 56:3 8:8 13:25 26:7
11:21 17:17 reasons 36:15 remaining 10:17 37:8
31:11,20 33:4 rebut 48:14 remains 31:20 50:20
43:3,23,25 20:9 53:11 remand 11:4 Restatement
53:18 56:12,23 57:15 remanded 9:23 result 37:2
53:7 27:15 40:10 49:21 revealed 53:18
46:23 57:9 recommendat... reply 38:2 reviewed 26:7
38:7 R 1:15 2:3,13 11:9,18 12:2,9 26:10 30:7 right 4:25 26:14
45:3 3:1,7 53:11 13:6,8 14:17 representing 26:23 27:1,22
race-based 51:6 15:6 30:24 37:5 33:1,2,8 35:14
raised 15:21 43:19 44:5 8:22 9:2 21:5,8,19
30:15 raising 18:3 51:25 52:9 resides 22:20 36:23 37:25
range 25:1 56:23 57:2,19 resist 21:2 53:6,9 57:18
51:23,23 real 25:7 31:10 referred 54:19 respect 10:13 room 4:5 40:1
18:10,14 secretarial 28:5 47:21 48:5,23 solve 18:4 11:14,17 18:24
19:10 28:7,22 53:14 54:7 somebody 29:18 32:6,7 33:17
32:23 secretaries 28:6 55:24 someone's 5:6 33:19,21,22
35:14 secretary 27:20 severe 4:18,21 sorry 14:5 25:23 37:24 41:8
37:1 27:21,24 28:4 4:25 9:8,10,13 30:25 56:24 44:25 45:16,20
41:1 28:20,21 29:10 severity 5:5 sort 12:14 22:12 45:21,23 47:17
54:1,9 Section 39:4 sex 27:22 43:9 37:7 49:8 47:21 48:7
see 8:9 18:17 sexual 38:21 sorts 26:15 48:1 50:3 53:2,5
seeing 8:6 sheets 34:1,2,8 Sotomayor 45:7
45:6 46:3 senior 4:6,8,14 shows 44:5 57:1 13:2
22:15 52:15 shy 42:20 sous-chef 14:24 States 1:1,12,19
24:21 42:5 42:2 specialist 11:24 stationed 15:10
38:18,22 sense 30:13 signal 45:13 14:1,3 status 32:18
47:7 52:17,20 55:13 specific 26:6 33:5
55:25 sent 10:1 56:4 signals 55:13 specifically statute 18:21
sentence 51:14 signed 26:21 13:24 19:25 38:18,22
35:9 September Silverman 36:3 speculate 49:18 Staub 3:16
38:13 13:19 36:9,13 52:4 squarely 36:2 steer 8:2
39:9,12 serious 22:25 55:5,10 SRI 1:17 2:6 step 47:11 49:21
27:8 simply 4:25 37:2 20:12 50:12
36:4,20 services 28:5,22 single 8:18 2:6 20:11,12 straight 55:24
46:21 sets 18:24 22:18 20:15 21:7,10 stretched 39:18
52:6 setting 27:18 situation 8:10 21:25 22:21 struck 40:6,22
5:22 6:4,10,13 44:20 25:2,6,19,23 17:3
10:3,20 11:14 six 34:4 47:12 29:6,12 30:4 subjected 8:17
18:18 11:16 18:10,13 Skidmore 19:2,5 30:25 31:10 43:7,8
39:4 22:24 27:17,24 19:15 32:2 36:17 subjective 5:6,7
42:11 28:8,13 29:8,8 sliding 7:1 stand 43:13 subjects 20:18
48:2 29:12 31:4 snippets 31:6,7 standard 3:19 27:21
53:2 33:3 35:13,15 47:5 3:24 5:5 7:7 submitted 58:2
35:18 37:17 Solicitor 1:17 8:22,23 9:3 58:4
supervisors 3:23 22:10 29:4,15 things 9:13,17 19:24 20:4
17:8,9,11 task 5:14 14:23 43:4 38:11 42:5
8:19 32:23 51:19 tell 18:16 26:20 22:4 23:5 24:2 toilets 13:5
31:12,16 supervisor's 26:22 29:13 24:3 26:17 20:24 23:4,8,9
42:6,18 23:2 34:3 42:21 27:10,12 28:23 23:16,21,24
44:12 support 1:19 2:8 53:19 30:4,10,19,21 24:5,12 40:20
20:14 31:14 telling 31:25 31:10,10,13 told 12:16 15:13
52:2 supported 18:11 42:20 32:2,8 33:2,5 34:12 56:19
31:5,8 24:16 54:1 tend 18:12 35:25 36:1,8 track 8:23
Supreme 1:1,12 45:16 53:15 38:3 39:15 traditionally
12:12 15:25 16:14,15 21:9 42:1,2,6 43:10 transcript 48:10
32:1,3 surely 33:11 27:17 28:14 43:13,22,24,24 transfer 32:25
46:6 surmise 48:8 29:8,9 31:4 45:11,13 47:10 transmit 15:9
surprise 54:18 33:3 41:15 48:9 49:18 trays 34:5
43:12 swept 10:16 55:24 51:2,6,16,22 treated 16:7
synonym 54:16 testified 12:16 52:3,12 55:13 43:19
T testifies 57:9,12 thinking 55:16 tried 9:17 38:7
table 47:16 56:18 57:6,8 thought 4:13 tries 54:12
4:15 6:18 take 4:2 6:23,24 45:2,2 48:3,24 24:6 32:19 39:8
11:1 12:16 16:17 17:6 thank 20:10,15 threat 13:7 16:8 42:6 44:12
15:22 29:22 31:13,16 32:10,14 53:6 23:15 52:2
21:12 32:2 35:9 38:6 53:8,13 57:4 threatened 23:3 triggering 52:21
23:3 38:25 43:22 57:25 58:1 three 23:19 53:3
28:11 47:10 49:21 theory 4:14 25:13 26:21 true 11:2 45:17
54:2 56:7 thermostat 33:10 48:11 truly 53:19
36:13 takes 29:16 22:16 37:9 tidier 6:19 try 41:16 48:14
40:14 39:14 time 9:12,14 trying 22:14
43:3 talked 30:1 they'd 26:20,22 13:18 14:8 28:24
44:8 42:24 43:5 thing 9:25 11:3 20:8 36:24,24 turn 7:23 29:21
47:24 talking 10:4 14:10 23:10,13 51:2,25,25 turned 25:17,24
49:8 35:21 48:1,2 23:17 24:1,25 times 30:1 34:12 27:7
53:3,22 tangible 6:24 29:16 54:7 47:6 57:17 twist 55:20
57:13 16:17 17:7 56:11 title 3:12,15 two 10:6 12:3,15
42:13 6:11 view 45:5 William 12:13 1
51:6 unpredictable VII 3:12,15 12:21 54:20 1st 13:20,21
18:11 45:15 words 51:7 54:4 135 46:23
18:14 47:11 49:21 39:7 42:5 14:14 15:7 198 12:17
useful 28:24 W 30:5 31:19 20 2:7 34:4
V want 24:22 44:4 41:22 52:6 2005 13:19
43:2 wanted 41:16 14:15 26:17 14:6
26:19 valid 50:14 50:12 6:16 8:18 2012 1:9
34:14 Vance 1:3 3:4 warranted 46:17 52:18 219(2)(d) 39:4
12:1,17 13:14 50:22 55:9 24 57:10
14:17 15:13 46:4 1:18,21 52:13 277 34:7
37:19 51:5,20 54:19 wasn't 9:13 works 26:4 278 34:7
Vance's 11:1 36:12 42:20 worried 55:12 3
variety 38:2 55:7 19:14 23:1,12 32 2:11
vegetables 34:3 22:4 24:14 30:14 46:14 37 57:14
vein 49:8 40:24 41:2 writing 38:18 386 12:20
3:13 20:13 vicarious 20:20 55:8 37:15,18 4
12:14 40:9,16 42:6 well-settled X 424 34:8 35:7
27:18,19 44:12 52:2,22 55:17 x 1:2,7 430 48:19
53:3 went 13:19,19
7:25 8:2 21:1 weren't 55:22 year 20:24 23:4 53 2:14
37:12 42:19,24 we're 22:13 yearly 29:11
6:24 we've 26:11 47:12 60 34:3
57:5
21:16
