IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ARKANSAS GAME & FISH COMMISSION, :
Petitioner : No. 11-597
v. :
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, October 3, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:54 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JAMES F. GOODHART, ESQ., Little Rock, Arkansas; on
behalf of Petitioner.
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JAMES F. GOODHART, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JAMES F. GOODHART, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:54 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next this morning in Case No. 11-597, Arkansas Game &
Fish Commission v. The United States.
Mr. Goodhart.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES F. GOODHART
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GOODHART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The issue is whether temporary flooding can
ever constitute a taking under the Fifth Amendment. The
Federal Circuit said, no, never, ruling that the
permanent consequences of the Government's actions were
not relevant solely because its actions were not
permanent.
Respectfully, Your Honors, that cannot be
the rule. There are at least two reasons why.
First, the United States must provide just
compensation when its direct physical invasion
substantially intrudes upon a landowner's protected
property interest, regardless of the particular mode or
duration of that invasion.
And, second, the Federal Circuit's decision
conflicts with fundamental guarantees that the Takings
Clause is intended to preserve, and, therefore, is
manifestly unjust.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about this Court's
precedent in, what is it, the Sanguinetti case, where
the Court said that for there to be Government
responsibility it is at least necessary that the
overflow constitute a permanent invasion of the land
amounting to an appropriation, not merely an injury, to
property?
We would have to withdraw or modify that
statement, would we not, if you -- if your -- your
argument prevails?
MR. GOODHART: Justice Ginsburg, we would
say that you would not have to overrule Sanguinetti
because the language there, "permanent flooding
invasion," was -- was not how the case turned on the
result. The court there did make an inaccurate summary
of the early flood-taking cases -- Pumpelly, Lynah, and
Kress. None of those cases said that flooding had to be
permanent. The facts in those cases did have a
permanent condition of flooding, but that was not made a
requirement. And none of those cases said that you
could not have temporary flood invasions.
But, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was Sanguinetti -- had we
had any temporary takings cases before Sanguinetti?
MR. GOODHART: Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: In other words, was
Sanguinetti expressing a special rule for flooding, or
was it -- was it simply saying there can't be a
temporary taking? If the latter, that dictum if it's
dictum or a holding if it was a holding has already been
overruled by our later temporary takings cases.
MR. GOODHART: Justice Scalia, there --
you're correct. There was no temporary takings prior to
Sanguinetti. The Court there didn't have occasion to
address temporary flooding, whether that could
constitute a taking. And all of the cases after
Sanguinetti that have actually addressed whether a
direct temporary invasion will -- that substantially
intrudes upon property interests have held that, yes,
you can have a temporary --
JUSTICE BREYER: Which ones? Because I
counted eleven cases which either say, state, some seem
to hold or support the proposition that when it's
temporary with a flood it's a trespass, and where it's
permanent it's a taking. Okay?
I mean, I have eleven. And so I've got from
my law clerk. And then I tried to see, well, what are
the ones that say the opposite? And so far we've come
up with zero. All right?
You could argue that there were three cases
during the war which might be read that way, though they
don't quite mention it. All right?
So which of the cases that you -- rather
than list my eleven, I'm more interested in what you
think, and so I'd like to know which are the ones you
think support -- with something like a flood, which it's
not -- you're not physically taking hold of the whole
thing. You're sending something in that comes back.
Which of the ones support you that temporary is not a
trespass, temporary is a taking?
MR. GOODHART: Justice Breyer, in the
Dickinson case in 1947 where the Court found a taking
from flooding, Mr. Dickinson reclaimed his property,
effectively reclaimed most of the property that had
flooded, effectively ending the flood invasion. And the
Court there said the taking was a taking when that
occurred, regardless of whether the landowner does
reclamation.
Of course, this Court in the war seizure
cases, in General Motors, Petty Motor, Pewee Coal,
Kimball Laundry, in all of those cases the Court has
found --
JUSTICE BREYER: Dickinson -- I got written
down Dickinson.
MR. GOODHART: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Kimball Laundry. Kimball
Laundry was the -- laundry facilities.
MR. GOODHART: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: They took the laundry
facilities for 3 years, but there what they did is they
went in and they took this building, you know, took the
whole thing.
MR. GOODHART: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: The problem with a flood is
you don't take all the land. You send some stuff in.
And the stuff is there for a while, and then it comes
back, and -- it's called water. And so I don't know
what to make of the cases like Kimball Laundry where you
actually appropriate the property. I suspect that they
are not quite the same.
Anything else? I got Dickinson. I've got
Kimball Laundry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We have cases about flying
overland -- -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, Causby.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- cases about shooting --
shooting overland. Right?
MR. GOODHART: Yes, Your Honor. The Causby
case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not water, but it
ain't taking, either, in the -- in the narrow sense that
Justice Breyer has talked about.
MR. GOODHART: Yes, Your Honor. The -- the
United States flooded the air over the Causby's
residence and commercial chicken farm.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but in Causby, what
they did -- there was a question about whether just
flying some airplanes over is a taking or a trespass.
But it went on for 25 years, so it was a long time.
And, therefore, the permanency of it I don't think is at
issue there.
MR. GOODHART: Yes. Your Honor, in this
case, the court -- the Court of Federal Claims found
that these deviations resulted, in over 8 years, 6
consecutive years of recurring flood invasions during --
during the summertime, during unnatural time periods;
and that the facts were more compelling than even in
Causby with the -- the overflights or in Portsmouth
Harbor with cannon shots flooding the air over
Portsmouth Landing Harbor Hotel.
This -- these flood invasions happened each
year for specific sustained time periods. The United
States controlled the timing, the frequency, and the
extent of the duration of these floods.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if it hadn't harmed
the timber? I mean, you know, the damages claimed are a
lot -- a lot of the timber that -- that would have been
valuable was -- was impaired by these floodings.
Suppose there'd been no harm at all? Suppose it had
just been for a certain period of time you were not able
to use that land for anything? You couldn't plant
anything on it. You couldn't picnic on it. You
couldn't do anything. Would that have been --
nonetheless, despite the fact that there -- there was no
harm done except -- except the flooding -- would that
have been a taking?
MR. GOODHART: Your Honor, no. If -- there
would not have been a taking unless the landowner could
show substantial intrusion upon his protected property
rights.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, he has. It's
flooded. He can't --
MR. GOODHART: If -- Your Honor, if he can
show that the -- he has the right to exclude
superinduced invasions of water, that -- so it doesn't
interfere with his use and enjoyment. Here --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It does. He can't plow on
it. He can't picnic on it. How does that not interfere
with his --
MR. GOODHART: Well, and it very may well,
Your Honor. And here, that -- there was that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it would be a taking.
Are you saying yes or no? What is it?
MR. GOODHART: I'm saying, yes, if he can
show that it intruded on his use and enjoyment, and as
you said, indicated, that type of interference, yes. It
would be a -- it would be a substantial intrusion on his
rights to use his property --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So that would cover a
one-time flood.
MR. GOODHART: Not necessarily, Justice
Ginsburg. A one-time flood that is extensive, it could
kill all the trees on this management area in one flood.
However, one flood may not result in substantial
intrusion on protected property rights. So it's going
to depend on the facts, Your Honor, in the case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't understand that.
You said if -- if it's one flood, even though it
destroys the trees, and certainly would not make --
would make it impossible to have picnics, what -- so if
that's your position, then you're turning on it happened
six times, not once. Is that --
MR. GOODHART: And, Your Honor, what I'm
saying, it's a proof of facts. The physical takings
analysis is the same. The legal analysis is the same.
But one flood could effectively destroy timber if it is
a lake; if it sits there. We didn't have that in our
case.
We had intrusion during 1993 to 2000, 8
years, 6 of which were substantially throughout the
summer where this management area sat in water during
June, July, into August, basically, stagnated water that
choked the oxygen from the roots of these trees. And in
1999 it was termed a brownout. It was massive.
Once the timber inventory was done, it
revealed that there was over 100,000 trees in a
6,990-acre area that were either destroyed or were --
were in the process of dying. And that didn't include
the other 11,000 acres that we subsequently inventoried.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, all of our
cases in this temporary versus permanent, as I read the
cases and I read what the multiple facts that each are
relying on, it seems to me that our cases have been
attempting, in the term "temporary," to encompass a lot
of different concepts. Both intentionality, because an
accidental issue is not a taking; causation: Did this
-- and that's part of Sanguinetti's holding -- did what
the Government do actually and directly cause the injury
at issue? And foreseeability: Is what you intended
something whose consequences you could have seen?
And they are using that in a multifaceted
test, one that the Solicitor General is not trying to
endorse here, but one that I think is more consistent
with our general jurisprudence in this area.
So there is never a simple answer on the
question of permanent damage, because you can have
permanent damage that's not a taking, if all of the
other factors I've just mentioned are not in your favor.
Is that correct?
MR. GOODHART: Yes, Your Honor, you're
correct. The -- the invasion has to be direct by the
United States.
The Court of Federal Claims found that --
that it was direct, natural, and probable -- the results
were -- from the Government's action.
One thing in water cases is you don't have
dye in the water. Mr. Causby could look up and see the
insignia on the airplanes. And we knew that the cannon
fire from the -- from the artillery was coming over the
Portsmouth Harbor's land was from the Government. The
water, you can't always tell. And so you have to prove
that that was directly from the United States. And the
commission in this case did.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess the problem with
this case, and it's part of what's interwoven in your
adversary's arguments, is that with flooding it's going
to occur naturally anyway. The Government generally
builds dams to control that flooding to the benefit of
all of the interests along its affected route. And at
some point, either the Government is going to -- is
going to make a decision that's going to help someone
and potentially hurt someone. And the question is,
isn't all of those situations going to be subject to
litigation.
The Government's rule -- I call it the
Government's rule, but it's -- is basically simple. It
can't. Because, if the deviation is temporary -- and
that's what the circuit below said -- it's just
exercise. It's either a nuisance or temporary trespass,
and we're not going to hold the Government responsible
for that loss. Assuming it's going to occur in part
because flooding is always going to occur, the question
is perhaps when. But in any place you have a dam, it's
there because flooding was happening.
Isn't that the basic argument? And I don't
know that you've actually announced the rule that
addresses the essence of the policy considerations that
are driving the Government decision. So tell me how
your rule makes this a manageable situation.
MR. GOODHART: Your Honor, the -- the two
elements of the rule, that there must be direct physical
invasion by the United States and not from some other
cause, and there must be substantial intrusion upon
these protected property rights, the right to exclude,
the right to use and enjoy, and the right to dispose,
that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's every flood.
MR. GOODHART: That runs throughout
this Court's --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's every flood.
MR. GOODHART: Yes, Your Honor, it is. But
the United States, when it does its flood control --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, no, I don't
-- why is that every flood? You go through your three
factors, you could have lots of flood that aren't a
substantial intrusion. You know, you get an extra inch
of water, and then it recedes. And it's -- you know --
MR. GOODHART: That's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- you get a note
from the Corps of Engineers saying, we're sorry, it
won't happen again. That's not -- every flood is not --
MR. GOODHART: Not -- you're correct,
Mr. Chief Justice. Every flood is certainly not rising
to the level of a taking.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I guess what we're asking
you is, how do you define the baseline of protected
expectations for the property?
MR. GOODHART: Your Honor --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You've indicated, I think,
in your brief that one year won't do it. This was six
or seven years.
If that's a baseline of expectations, the
Government cannot change that, even if it thinks that
there is a higher and -- and more urgent priority in
protecting some other land?
MR. GOODHART: Your Honor, the -- certainly,
the Government is not the insurer of -- of flood
control, how they just carry it out.
There is the case that's cited in the
Government's brief, United States v. Sponenbarger, which
says that very thing. The United States is not the
insurer of it. But when it takes water and it controls
water and releases it in a manner that's not from
storms, not from natural, but does it in a manner that
they control how it's released and the duration,
frequency, and they use property to store that water for
eight -- you know, over eight years, that in this case
was -- was compelling. And the court found that those
facts --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But my question is how do
you define the baseline that gives a legitimate
expectation, if the Corps of Engineers -- did not happen
in this case, but in the hypothetical case -- makes the
finding that there is a more urgent and -- and a higher
priority for other lands, and it changes its policy? It
cannot do that?
MR. GOODHART: Your Honor, it can go through
its law, the National Environmental Policy Act, the
Clean Water Act. It can make changes, and then it can
pay for what it's going to take from private landowners.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what you're saying
is that it can't make that change without paying, right?
MR. GOODHART: It -- it cannot make that
change where it's going to burden the landowner and
interfere with that -- those property rights that the
Fifth Amendment is guaranteeing.
Now, in practice --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now suppose, at the very
outset of the dam, the -- the Government says, we've got
to put this water someplace, we're going to put it on
the left bank, not the right bank. That's not a taking
as of that time --
MR. GOODHART: Your Honor --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- if the land was always
flooded anyway on the right?
MR. GOODHART: That may not be a taking.
And, for example, in the Bedford case in 1904, where a
revetment was in the Mississippi River, it was trying to
control natural erosion from a cutoff that had been
created, the landowner could not show --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But what I want is the
definition of the operable baseline that we can use in
order to define whether or not there has been a taking.
MR. GOODHART: And, Your Honor, I guess I
must say it may not be a bright line. It is -- the
analysis here that this Court has used throughout its
physical takings cases will separate the torts from the
takings.
And, here again, the United States -- this
has worked well in other cases for the United States,
where in Sanguinetti there was no --
JUSTICE ALITO: Should the baseline be what
would have happened if the dam was never built?
MR. GOODHART: Perhaps, Your Honor. And in
this case, for example, the court had evidence that this
land flourished before the dam. There was evidence that
this bottomland hardwood forest existed for generations.
And when the control plan was put in effect in 1953, it
worked fine because they mimicked natural flow where
late -- late winter and early spring, you have your
releases, they dissipate, the water recedes, but you
don't have extensive summertime flooding from a river.
Frankly, anywhere in the country, but
certainly not in the southern part of the United States,
these rivers do not overflow during June, July, August.
This never happens.
JUSTICE BREYER: But what do you suggest --
what do you suggest -- I looked at the consent.
MR. GOODHART: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: To tell you the truth, I
think it's permanent. I think they're thinking it's
intermittent, but permanently intermittent.
MR. GOODHART: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: The flood comes like three
months a year every year. And the erosion, they say
that part that's eroded belongs to the Government now.
And if he comes back with his dirt and puts it in,
that's fine, but he's trespassing on Government land.
So if I'm right in reading that, if I'm
right -- and a big if -- it seems that eleven cases
somewhat stand for this, I agree, somewhat arbitrary
rule.
Now -- so I'm tempted, if I'm right, to say,
okay, it's not perfect, but let's go with it. There are
people all over the country who have probably relied on
this stuff. And that would be so absent a better rule.
So what do you suggest would be a better,
clearer rule for compensating for flooding where our
problem is what's a trespass and what's a taking?
MR. GOODHART: And, Your Honor, I know it
cannot be the Federal circuit's rule that you can never
have temporary flooding as a taking. And I guess
I would --
JUSTICE BREYER: You know, but I want to
know what your idea -- I understand the difficulties are
there --
MR. GOODHART: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and I'm willing to
accept a lot you mentioned.
MR. GOODHART: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: But what I'm
asking -- which I just did ask -- is what's your idea of
a substitute that would be better?
MR. GOODHART: Your Honor, the substitute
would be to remain consistent with how this Court
analyzes the physical takings, not use anything from
regulatory analysis here, but looking at these elements.
And the -- the Corps of Engineers will
need -- when they know that it's predictable, that it is
foreseeable, as the court below found, that -- that
their actions will place water for storage on land that
they know they can purchase flood easements for --
JUSTICE BREYER: So a Department of the
Interior employee trespasses on Jones's land, trampling
paths, and even limbs fall off trees. That's a taking
and not a trespass?
MR. GOODHART: No, Your Honor, it's not.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because?
MR. GOODHART: And because the Court said in
the Cress case, it's the character of the Government's
action, not the amount of damages resulting from it, so
long as that is substantial.
And in the cases, the Court has looked at
what is substantial intrusion. In Loretto, the Court
said a permanent physical occupation on a rooftop in Ms.
Loretto's building, small area, that is substantial,
even though geographically it was very small, because it
cut through these valuable property rights to occupy
someone's property.
And so -- substantial may not have to be
very high.
JUSTICE BREYER: So our department employee
trying to find a shortcut drives his bulldozer through
Jones's land knocking down his favorite redwood, it's a
taking?
MR. GOODHART: Your Honor, I think we would,
again, use the analysis, separate out the torts, where
the action is direct, it's been predictable what would
that would result in, the United States should know
that, and then the intrusion or interference with those
property rights is substantial, there will be a taking.
Usually that's not going to be the case in a
one-time situation, as your hypothetical. And, again,
here the court heard six consecutive years of this
invasion of water. The commission couldn't turn it
away.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So our cases -- our cases
treat physical occupations differently from other --
from other cases, don't they?
The park ranger walking through can hardly
be called a physical occupation. He's harmed the land,
but it's not a physical occupation.
What you're -- what you're arguing here is
that -- is that flooding the land is a physical
occupation for the period that it's flooded.
MR. GOODHART: It is, Your Honor. Where
it's an occupation, it's certainly clearer and more
intrusive. There can be invasions that don't amount to
an occupation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but what you say --
here's what troubles me. You say it has to be
substantial. But you -- can we -- can we fold into that
word substantial a requirement that it have caused
substantial financial loss?
See, if that were the case, then -- then I
could distinguish your case where a lot of valuable
trees got destroyed.
MR. GOODHART: Certainly, Your Honor.
Substantial --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I wouldn't say every --
you know, every flood that goes across a land, even two
years or three years in a row, would not necessarily be
a taking.
MR. GOODHART: You could look at the
economic part -- yes, definitely, Your Honor. What is
substantial is going to be made as a legal determination
by the Corps, as a matter of degree.
And you can look at the extent of the
damages -- if there is destruction of property.
Destruction has been -- as in the Kansas City Life case
in 1950, the taking is to the extent of the destruction.
Beyond that, though, it's looking at interference with
use and enjoyment --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What was the Kansas City
case that you are referring to? I don't --
MR. GOODHART: The Kansas City Life
Insurance case in 1950, Your Honor, was underflow
invasion of water percolating up on property in Missouri
from the Mississippi River. And that was found to be a
substantial invasion where the property, the 1700 acres,
was taken by the United States. And the Court there
said, when you destroy the use of that property for what
it was being used by the landowner, you owe to the
extent of the destruction that you have caused.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Goodhart, maybe it
would help to know what you think if we accept your
position would be left over for the Federal Circuit to
consider on remand. You -- you haven't asked to -- for
outright reversal and have the decision of the Court of
Federal Claims be the end of the matter. So if we
accept your position, then what issues would be open for
the Federal Circuit to resolve on remand?
MR. GOODHART: Your Honor, if I may, after
answering your question I would like to reserve the
remainder of my time.
Your Honor, I wish we could have asked for
affirmance. We -- there are several other issues that
the Federal Circuit did not disturb or address. They
did not go into the facts of, on appeal, that the United
States --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the question is what
do we say to the circuit? What do you want us to tell
the circuit to do on remand?
MR. GOODHART: We want the remand to say:
Apply the rule of law here for physical taking and look
at it as the Court of Federal Claims did: Was there a
direct physical injury? Did it result in substantial
intrusion on the commission's property? If so, the Just
Compensation Clause is self-actuating and there should
be just compensation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what were the other
issues that you just mentioned? You said we couldn't
ask for an automatic affirmance.
MR. GOODHART: The United States raised
several issues and the commission cross-appealed in
asking for regeneration damages, Your Honor, and those
would need to be addressed on the remand.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Kneedler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
As has been pointed out, this Court has
consistently held in its flooding cases and reaffirmed
in Loretto that a -- that a taking occurs in the context
of flooding only if the flooding is the direct result of
the structure itself and if it results in a permanent
effect on the property such that it's an actual
appropriation. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's -- there is
a little confusion about the Government's position,
there was in the court of appeals.
Is it -- I'm quoting from your friend's
brief, and he says: "The Federal Circuit adopted a
categorical rule that temporary Government action can
never be a taking if the Government does not intend to
create a permanent flooding condition." Is that an
accurate statement of your understanding?
MR. KNEEDLER: The -- I think the intent
point, I guess I would modify that. There are some
things that -- I think it would have to be an objective
standard. In Dickinson, for example, the -- the
modification was intrinsically permanent. The landowner
had corrected for it. But it was intrinsically
permanent until the landowner had done something about
it. So actually Dickinson is consistent with our --
with our position.
But I do want -- there is a critical piece
about this case that Justice Kennedy's questions have
touched upon that I think it's very important for this
Court to focus upon.
This case is not about flooding by the
project itself. The reservoir behind the dam, the
easements, the flowing easements there, the spillway,
the project is the Government and I think it's fair to
say the Government is occupying the land when the
Government builds the project.
What we have here are incidental
consequences downstream from the dam as a result of the
flowage. And there are -- Loretto, when it is summing
up this Court's flooding cases, makes two points. One,
it says it has to be permanent, not temporary invasion;
but it also distinguishes the category of cases in which
there is conduct outside the landowner's property that
has consequential damages within the property.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- I don't
understand what you're saying. Are you saying that if
this landowner owned land behind the dam that was
temporarily flooded as often as has happened here, that
that would be a taking?
MR. KNEEDLER: No. I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I didn't think you were
saying that.
MR. KNEEDLER: No, but what I'm saying is
this would be a particularly bad or problematic context
for the Court to depart from that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there are
pretty clear findings in the Court of Claims on the
question of causation, right?
MR. KNEEDLER: I don't think it's a question
of causation, and if I could just point out two cases,
one of which was cited in Loretto in its summing up of
this Court's flooding cases is Bedford. Bedford was a
situation in which a revetment, as counsel pointed out,
a revetment was constructed in the -- in the Mississippi
River to protect erosion and access to the City of
Vicksburg. It was -- it was clearly shown in that case
that over time, over a period of 6 years, as in this
case, downstream by 6 miles it resulted in permanent
flooding of land as a consequence of that.
But what the Court said is that is
consequential injury downstream; it is not occupation by
the Government.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, so if the
Government comes in and tells a landowner downstream
that every March and April we are going to flood your
property so that you can't use it, from now on, that's
the way -- that's part of our plan, that's a taking for
those 2 months, correct?
MR. KNEEDLER: No. I don't think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No? The Government
says you will not be able to use your land because of
what we are doing for 2 months -- you have been able to
up to now, but from now on, for March and April, you
can't. That's not a taking?
MR. KNEEDLER: I don't, and -- and let me
explain why. What we're talking about here is the Corps
of Engineers operating a dam from which it has to take
into account multiple considerations. In this case,
there was marina operators, there were farmers along the
river, there were drainage districts.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'll grant you that
it can decide whose land it wants to take. I just want
to know why that's not a taking.
MR. KNEEDLER: Because this is a classic
example of the Government adjusting benefits and
burdens. This is why the Federal Government was invited
in to construct these projects because along -- along
the river there was very serious flooding. So the
Government puts in a dam to control the flooding, it has
to release the flood waters, and the timing of the
release of the flood waters is something that you have
to take into account --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if the Government
says we've got to release the flood waters and what
we're going to do is we're going to have water trucks
pull up behind the dam, we're going to load them up and
we're going to drive them down river to this person's
property and we're going to dump the water there?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think that's a different
situation because the Government itself is actually
putting the water -- I think that's very close to being
the reservoir behind the dam. But -- but typically,
when the Government -- I think uniformly, when the
Government is operating --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But your answer is
that would be a taking?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think because it would
be -- it would be specifically deposited on that
landowner's land.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought --
MR. KNEEDLER: It would be the same as if
they put a pipe from the dam --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- to that person's land.
But that's not what's happening when the Government's
operating a dam, and it's operating it with consequences
for the basin. It's not aimed at any particular
landowner.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Again, I think the
Court of Claims' findings are to the contrary.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They said the
Government knew that this water was going to go right
here, right?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, it was not -- there is
no suggestion that it was targeted at this land, which
is -- which is I think something quite different. This
was -- this was an incidental consequence of what was
happening downstream. Again, in the Bedford case you
had permanent --
JUSTICE SCALIA: A foreseeable and certain
incidental consequence.
MR. KNEEDLER: No, I don't believe
foreseeable is enough. It was -- it could have been --
it could have been foreseeable in Bedford.
Let me take a more -- a more dramatic
example that I think illustrates this point. This
Court's decision in Sponenbarger which we cite in our
brief, that a -- that case discusses a prior holding by
this Court in a case called Jackson, which was a
situation where a levee, Government built a levee on one
side of the river which had the effect of flooding
property on the opposite side of the river because it --
it kept it from going to this side and channelled it
into the river and it caused it to overflow the -- the
land on the other side, and the Court said that is not a
taking.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the
Government decides for purposes of flood control -- I
don't know -- I don't know the ecological way -- but the
water has to percolate or whatever down in this area.
So it goes onto this person's land and it cuts down $5
million worth of his trees. The same purpose, to assist
in flood control. No doubt that that's a taking, right?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think that would be --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
MR. KNEEDLER: Unless there was some
emergency justification.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure, sure. And so
the Government then comes down and says, we're going to
flood your land and we know -- again, looking at the
factual findings -- we know that will result in your
trees dying, but because we're doing it for flood
control, that's just too bad. Different case when they
go in with a chain saw than when they go in with the
water?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. When they go in with
the chain saw the Government is actually going on the
property and the Government is, to use counsel's term,
directly cutting down the trees. I think it's very hard
to explain consequences 110 miles downstream as being
direct. It's -- and there is no case that -- that
Petitioner has pointed to with that sort of incidental
consequence --
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the legal rubric?
I mean what you're -- what I haven't thought of until
you've been putting it this way is that the Government
builds a dam. When it does it, water backs up behind
the dam, and that water might flood somebody's land.
That's a taking, if it's at least permanent, and so
forth.
Okay. Now, the Government builds a dam, all
that happens. Because the Government builds a dam, a
lot of other things happen. They release water
sometimes. They make electricity sometimes. Different
animals come in.
All kinds of things can happen to different
people 200 yards down. Some will be 200 miles down,
200 -- you know. Some will be helpful, some will be
hurtful. Can they never bring a lawsuit? Can they
sometimes recover? How do we look at that?
MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I think, under this
Court's takings decisions, and specifically those
dealing with effects caused by something outside the
property, I think it is basically a per se rule.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then, suppose what
the Government said is, Mr. Smith, you live 150 miles
from here, and we have a rule, and our rule is you can't
cut down any of your trees, and you can't farm the land,
and you can't even walk on it without a boat. All
right, that would be at least a regulatory taking.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, it would be -- it would
be analyzed as a regulatory taking --
JUSTICE BREYER: So why -- now, they're
doing exactly the same thing here, but, instead of a
regulation, they send some water in to do it. So should
we analyze it as a regulatory taking?
MR. KNEEDLER: It -- it has certain
parallels in that respect in the sense that the
Government has to make a choice. It constructed the
dam, and its releases are going to help someone and hurt
someone. It can't be put in a position where it's going
to have to pay compensation every time it chooses one --
one thing or another.
There's another point I'd like to make --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, but that's the issue.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm totally confused
now. Is Dickinson decided wrong under your theory?
MR. KNEEDLER: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They built a dam. It
raised the water level and flooded the petitioner's
land, and the court gave recompense.
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. And --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you just said two
minutes ago -- or I thought I heard you say -- that when
the Government builds a dam, even if it floods some
people and not others, that there's no taking.
MR. KNEEDLER: I'm talking about downstream,
not the -- not the reservoir. And after it goes --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: After it's --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- after it goes through --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So the baseline -- tell
me what the baseline is. And perhaps you can answer
Justice Kennedy's question more directly. Anything in
the reservoir is a taking. Anything downstream is never
a taking.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, assuming it's permanent
in the reservoir, which it's likely to be when the
Government is constructing it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, no, not necessarily.
Suppose there -- because of a spring melt-off or other
factors, it's clear that the reservoir for several
months of the year will be more extensive than it will
the rest of the year.
MR. KNEEDLER: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you could say, just --
just as here, that there's only been a temporary taking
of some of the land behind the reservoir.
Now, doesn't the -- doesn't the Government
condemn all the land --
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. But that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- even that which would be
only temporarily flooded?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, but that -- that
is covered by this Court's decision in Cress, in which
the Court said that if you have a situation where
property is permanently liable to inevitably recurring
flooding, that that's the same thing as a permanent --
even though sometimes it's not -- it's not covered, it
is permanently liable.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And the only difference in
that formulation and this case is that it was for seven
years and not permanent? Is that your --
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, insofar as we're
looking at the temporary aspect of it. It wasn't seven
years, it was -- it was -- it was a series of individual
determinations made by the Corps; but -- but for reasons
that tie into the downstream effects, it was releasing
water from the dam and was making a series of
administrative decisions about how to operate the dam.
It has a water control manual. Downstream
landowners are protected, not by retroactive award of
damages under the Just Compensation Clause, but by
public participation requirements --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I must be -- I must be
slow today because I'm -- I'm having significant problem
with your articulation of your test.
Basically, you're saying once a dam is
built -- once a dam is built, no downstream owner has a
claim? Or, you're building an exception from when the
claim can be applied to a downstream owner?
MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I -- I think, under this
Court's current precedence, there would be no claim
downstream.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It doesn't matter
whether it's permanent, reoccurring --
MR. KNEEDLER: Foreseeable.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- foreseeable or
anything else?
MR. KNEEDLER: No, because Jackson,
Spokenbarger -- Sponenbarger, the revetment case,
Bedford were all cases where --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- where it was -- where it
was permanent.
If I could mention one other point --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, just before
you get off, because I think part of the confusion, at
least for me, is the difference between what the Federal
circuit decided and what you're arguing.
You seem to be arguing that it doesn't make
any difference, it's not -- whether it's temporary or
permanent, right? The Federal circuit thought it was
dispositive that this they viewed as temporary and not
permanent. So it seems to me that you're fighting, and
you're fighting a lot of the court of claims' very
exhaustive findings, to present a different argument.
MR. KNEEDLER: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems to me that
if we disagree, and we think it makes a difference that
it doesn't have to be 50 years, but it might be
something less, then maybe you've preserved all these
other arguments or maybe not, but --
MR. KNEEDLER: But I think it's -- we have
argued, both below and here, that -- that this is
consequential, and that -- that it's downstream and had
those effects.
We agree with the -- with the Federal
circuit, we are not disagreeing with that conclusion,
because this is -- these were temporary -- a series of
individual temporary decisions made for their own
reasons.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know, but you
agree -- you agree with the Federal circuit, but then
you're presenting all these other arguments in which it
doesn't depend.
So, if we disagree with the Federal circuit,
it seems to me that we ought to say that, and maybe you
can make these other arguments about it's too far
downstream or --
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, but -- but I think, in
deciding what's temporary, you shouldn't divorce it from
context. And -- and here, the context is the
consequences downstream.
This is -- this is not -- if you were to
depart from the Court's rule up until this point about
permanence -- and there has to be -- something less than
permanent will do, I don't think you should ignore the
fact that the consequences are not the sort of direct
governmental occupation of the land like at the
reservoir, but the sort of consequences downstream that
affect -- that can affect a whole range of people.
And I would like to make one very important
point about context, and that is, in 1928, after the
Great Mississippi Flood of 1927, Congress first got into
the flood control business in a massive way, but it --
it -- it was unwilling to do that if it was going to be
held liable for consequential damages from flood waters
downstream.
It therefore included Section 702(c) in the
Flood Control Act of 1928, which says that the
Government shall not be liable for any damage to any
property at any place resulting from floods or flood
waters.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, that can't
overrule the Takings Clause, can it?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think what it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, that's nice that
Congress doesn't want to be liable.
(Laughter.)
MR. KNEEDLER: No, but Congress -- no,
it's -- the point is more fundamental than that.
Congress recognized -- and the legislative history shows
this -- Congress recognized that under this Court's
precedence, there would not be takings liability. The
Bedford decision is, in fact, cited in that.
This Court pointed out in its James
decision, which recounts the history of that, that there
was a proposal to -- to make the Government responsible
under the flood -- flood control projects for any taking
or any damage to property. And this Court said that
went way beyond anything the Fifth Amendment would
require, and it was cut back. And Congress said it's
not going to be liable for any damage.
And I think that shows a very important
reliance interest on the part of Congress with respect
to the line that this Court has drawn. Congress was not
going to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about --
Mr. Kneedler, what was wrong with Judge Newman's
position on this temporary versus permanent? It said --
she said that temporary versus permanent, the target
should not be the Government's action, but the effect of
that action; that is, if trees are killed and they
weren't revived, the damage is permanent. That's where
we should vote, not whether the Government is going to
do this year after year.
MR. KNEEDLER: I don't believe that that's
correct. I mean, that -- that would turn on the
happenstance of what a particular landowner had -- had
on his property downstream.
And -- and I think the Government, in
operating the general project, cannot be held to do an
investigation of every property owner. Again, it's
releasing water generally. And if we -- maybe if I
could use the levee example here.
This -- the release changes that were made
here were made to protect farmers so that they could --
so that they could plant more crops and not -- and be
protected during their harvesting.
If you shift back to what the Corps -- to
the Corps' regular operating scheme, it affects the
farmers. There might be a flood --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, the issue is who is
going to pay for that wonderful benefit to these
farmers. Should it be everybody, so that the Government
pays, and all of us pay through taxes, or should it be
this -- this particular sorry landowner who happens to
lose all his trees?
MR. KNEEDLER: It is in the nature --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't seem to me
particularly fair.
MR. KNEEDLER: It is in the nature of living
along a river. Riparian ownership carries with it
certain risks and uncertainties, from weather, from
intervening causes. The Government is -- there are a
thousand square miles, more square miles of drainage
area --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think -- one of
those risks has to be the Government's going to make you
pay for protecting somebody else.
Is that one of the risks?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, when -- picking up on
what I said about Congress, Congress would not have
gotten into the flood control business without this
protection of liability. People --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I doubt that.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, this Court in James
said it was an important condition for Congress getting
into it, that it was not -- Congress was not going to be
held liable for the -- for the damages downstream.
That came to be the basis, the baseline, of
expectations for people downstream from --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or upstream, under
your theory.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, if it's -- but the
construction of the project itself and the flooding of
the reservoir, the Government condemns that land,
purchases that land. It recognizes --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the hypothetical is,
suppose it doesn't. Suppose that there's some land
that's up -- that's fairly far upstream from the main
reservoir, but it's flooded once every other year.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the question would be
whether it falls within the Cress test of whether it is
permanently liable.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your -- but your position
seems to be that if it's downstream, somehow it's not
the Government. There's a series of administrative
actions and it's not really the Government's water.
It's like -- it's like the old moral refuge that the
rocket designers take: You know, I make the rockets go
up; where -- where they come down is not my concern.
MR. KNEEDLER: It -- it was basically -- I
mean, it was the rationale of this Court's cases in --
in Bedford, in Sponenbarger, and reaffirmed by this
Court in Loretto, a modern takings case dealing with the
question of physical occupation. And the Court said
that -- and it made two points. Again, it said -- it
made the temporary versus permanent point, but it also
made the point about conduct outside the land that has
an effect inside the land.
This case has both of those features. You
have a series of temporary decisions --
JUSTICE BREYER: But building a Government
project, let's say an electricity plant or high tension
wires, you could require the taking of some land to
build it. Now, you've got that and you begin to run it.
You could run it in such a way that it takes some of the
property. I mean, the electricity could, for example,
because of some odd thing run around over somebody's
land and kill all the chickens. That wasn't expected
but it happened, and it happened because of the way the
Government runs the plant.
Now, I guess there would be a taking in such
circumstance if in fact, because of the way it's run, it
makes that land which no one thought would happen, as a
consequence of the project uninhabitable; wouldn't there
be?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, again, it depends. If
the Government -- if the Government is occupying the
land when it happens, yes. But there's -- as you've I
think pointed out, there's a critical difference between
a tort and a taking. And there -- there can be
collateral consequences of what the Government does
that -- that cause injury.
JUSTICE BREYER: The collateral consequence
is to make some piece of land 4 miles away quite
unexpectedly, but totally uninhabitable. Now, what's
supposed to happen there? That's not just a trespass
because it's permanent. And even if it's once every
2 years, it's permanently once every 2 years.
MR. KNEEDLER: I think it would depend on
whether -- and there was a -- a case -- I believe it's
the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad --
JUSTICE BREYER: What does it say?
MR. KNEEDLER: It says if the -- it had to
do with releasing smoke from -- from a train. And the
Court said just -- just releasing it into the air --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but they made this --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- but -- but if you focus it
on someone --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. KNEEDLER: If -- if you pipe it -- if
you pipe it to the person's property, that's a -- that
may be a different matter.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So -- well,
that's the part -- that's the point. The reason they
don't compensate there is it apparently had something to
do with everybody suffering the cinders. But where the
cinders went out of the train and they ended up on just
one person's property because there were some pipes or
something, then it was a taking.
MR. KNEEDLER: It was focused, and that's
not -- not true in the operation of the dam.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, here they're focusing
it on his land.
MR. KNEEDLER: They're not focusing it on
his land. His land -- first of all, the commission's
land has always been subject to flooding and, as we
pointed out in our brief, even under -- even under
Petitioner's analysis, it results in an incremental
flooding of 5, 4 or -- 3 or 4 days.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not flooding that time of
year. That's the problem. I mean -- yes, flooding at a
time when it wouldn't harm the trees.
MR. KNEEDLER: But it is land -- it is land
in a floodplain that would be suitable for any sort of
construction or development. It is land in a
floodplain. And they have -- they have not argued, and
in fact, their appraiser in this case acknowledged, that
there is no permanent decrease in the valuation of the
land. They are -- they are arguing only about trees.
And that is -- that seems classic
consequential tort-type damages, that -- that flood
waters, it -- we'll assume in somewhat greater
increments, went on the land and damaged trees. They
didn't damage the land. In fact, the commission --
there was still hunting on the land during this period
of time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It strikes me that
that's a valuation question. But I understood you to
say that if there was a pipe coming out of the dam and
it went to somebody's -- right to the property line of
somebody's land and that's where you dump the water,
that would be a taking.
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. Because --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. I thought the
factual findings in the trial court said that was this
case, that you knew when you opened up the dam that this
is where the water was going to go.
MR. KNEEDLER: First of all, the Court --
the Court did not say that the Government knew. In
fact, it said the Government was unaware -- this
discussion's between 95a and 99a in the Court of Federal
Claims decision -- that the Government was unaware in --
in 1993.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about 6 years
later, when it was doing the same thing and the water
went to the same place?
MR. KNEEDLER: The taking goes -- the taking
claim here goes from 1993 to 1998. The Court of Federal
Claims said even as of 19 -- at least until 1996, it was
generally assumed that the operations of the dam did not
have a significant impact below the Missouri-Arkansas
line. Again, this is 110 miles downstream. This was in
no way focused on the -- on the commission's land,
but --
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you saying there's a
difference between the situation where the Government
particularly wants the water to go to a -- to a place,
and the situation where the Government knows that's
where it's going to go, but doesn't particularly care
where it's going to go?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think there's a -- I don't
know about the "intend." I mean, in the hypothetical
with the Chief Justice the Government was actually
transmitting the water. It was essentially using the
land as -- as a reservoir. And that -- that's, I think,
what Petitioner's counsel was trying to conjure up by
saying the Government was using this land for storage.
The Government was not using this land for storage. The
-- this wasn't the Government's water. There weren't
any outtakes from the commission's land to use this
water.
These were flood waters, which again the
Flood Control Act says the Government is not liable for
the release of flood waters from a project, that ended
up on the land that is an incidental consequence of the
operation of a flood control project.
People who live in a basin where there is a
flood control project get enormous benefits in the
control of that. The water has to be released. And it
has long been the case that the way that problem is --
that issue is handled about how it will be released is
by ordinary administrative law principles, basically,
with the Corps, in operating the dam, they have
requirements of public participation. In this case, the
commission participated on ad hoc planning groups.
This manual had not been updated in 50
years. Corps regulations say that manuals should be
updated to keep apace of changing circumstances,
population changes, different uses, environmental
concerns, so that when that happens, the commission
acted responsibly here and, had --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you would say that
even -- even if this land was permanently flooded, okay,
permanently flooded so he couldn't use it at all, since
it was downstream, no harm done, right?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think that's the
consequence of this -- but there's no -- the Court
doesn't have to decide that here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's your position.
MR. KNEEDLER: That -- that's I think the
necessary consequence of this Court's holdings in
Bedford, in Bedford and related cases. And -- it may
have harshness in some circumstances. But again, when
you live on a river and you know the consequences of
having a flood control project on the river, that --
that's what happens, but this is not arbitrary. There
is this planning process. There is notice and comment.
There's NEPA --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If there's notice
and comment -- so the choice is, there are 10 landowners
downstream. The question is which one you're going to
flood. And you flood number 2, and there is a public
process in which number 1 and 3 through 10 get to say,
yes, this sounds fine to me.
(Laughter.)
MR. KNEEDLER: No, that's not -- that's not
what happens. What the Corps was working for here, it's
commendable. The Corps was trying to develop a
consensus of downstream water users, which is why it
convened this ad hoc working group: The commission
drainage districts, representatives of farmers, the
marina, the Corps of Engineers, getting everybody
together to try to come up with a -- with a way to
handle the problem. And --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But what difference does
that make? It's nice that you try to reach consensus.
If number 2 is not going to be part of the
consensus because he's the one always affected --
MR. KNEEDLER: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- you're saying
permanency -- permanency, repetition, nothing counts,
he's just -- loses.
MR. KNEEDLER: No. He doesn't lose because
he has an action under the Administrative Procedure Act.
He's not -- the -- the Corps is required to take into
account various factors including, specifically, the
impact on other people in the basin when it's making a
decision. If the Corps --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but he loses because
the Corps comes in and says, yes, indeed, we did flood
2, but, in order to save, you know, 1 and 3 through 10.
Right? And -- and he'd lose.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the Corps cannot be
arbitrary in doing that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. It's not arbitrary.
MR. KNEEDLER: But the -- but the Corps
requires a broad ambit of discretion in managing a river
over time, and it has to be able to change to update
circumstances without exposing the United States to
massive liability.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler, does your
essential argument turn on this being indirect, as you
say? This is consequential; therefore, it isn't -- it
doesn't belong in the takings category, anything that's
consequential rather than direct?
MR. KNEEDLER: We have two submissions. I
mean, it's the confluence of both factors mentioned in
Loretto. And the Court doesn't have to decide anything
broader than that. It's the temporary nature of the
decisions.
These were individual decisions made often
with a recommendation or concurrence of the ad hoc
committee. So it's temporary in nature -- self
limiting, as everyone knew as part of this ongoing
planning process -- but, also, particularly in this
case, where it has only consequential effects
downstream, which is, again, the way the Court --
including in Lionel, one of the leading cases -- the
Court says that this is consequential.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why should it make a
difference whether the court had -- the Corps has a plan
which says, we're going to release this water every
summer, and a situation where, year after year after
year, somebody makes an ad hoc decision in the summer
that we're going to release the water?
MR. KNEEDLER: I don't think analytically,
for the reasons I said about -- about the downstream;
but, to the extent the Court is focusing on temporary,
these were self-limiting, and there was no guarantee
they were going to be renewed.
And, in fact, at the end of this process,
the court -- or the Corps decided not to adopt a
permanent change after going through the NEPA process.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Kneedler.
Mr. Goodhart, you have four minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES F. GOODHART
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GOODHART: Thank you.
As -- as my friend has said about these
damages being consequential and just affecting trees and
not -- not the land, the -- the court did not find that
this was just consequential downstream damage; that this
was direct, natural, and probable from these releases
that the commission had protested and complained about
for years.
That -- that that's in the record, that they
knew that they were using this land to store this water.
And the commission could not get their attention to stop
it until our director -- it was on Valentine's Day in
2001 -- brought the appraisal to the Corps of Engineers'
office, a whole roomful of people from both sides, and
placed that report from -- from 2000, that said, over $4
million worth of valuable timber is gone, please stop.
We -- we were -- we were pleading. So they knew.
And I think the Court of Federal Claims
found that they -- they had the understanding that they
were using this to accommodate the farmers who were
using marginally low property, that the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service says in the record probably should have
been cleared anyway, but they were wanting to provide
and adjust the benefits for those landowners and use the
commission's property to store the water.
And, Your Honor, I don't know, Justice
Kennedy, where the line should be drawn, but the cases
of Sponenbarger and Bedford and Sanguinetti say that
when it's not the United States' structure or it's not
the policy -- and the landowner cannot show that, that
it's from storms or from something in nature -- that's
not going to incur liability. Even negligence may not
incur liability unless it's direct that what -- how it
caused, and then substantial intrusion.
And, Your Honor, I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is the baseline -- go
back to Justice Kennedy's question -- is it before the
dam or after the dam, and why is it one or the other?
If flooding was going to occur more
unpredictably before the dam, and possibly summer
flooding of this kind could have happened, do you lose?
MR. GOODHART: Your Honor, under that --
under those facts, if it could have happened and the
landowner knew that, and that that is -- that is a
cause, not the United States, if -- if the United States
takes away its flood protection and this land goes back
to what it would be naturally, then the landowner can't
prove that it's direct from the United States. The
landowner would not recover in that instance.
In this situation, the evidence --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Even though after the
dam and the dam's plan was to ensure that it didn't
happen, you would still lose? If natural conditions --
MR. GOODHART: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- would have possibly
caused this, you would lose?
MR. GOODHART: If -- if it's not
super-induced invasions directly from the United States,
the landowner is going to have that as a natural
condition. Here, that was certainly not the case.
Summertime flooding of this type never happened in
the recorded history.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Pre-dam. In the
recorded history.
MR. GOODHART: In the pre-dam or during the
whole first 40 years of how this was operated.
It was when it was adjusted that the United
States used this land and then took the valuable timber.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure that's not
open to dispute. There is some argument here that
rainfall that was naturally occurring contributed to
what was happening to the trees.
MR. GOODHART: And I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think that there is --
at least that's what I understood some of the factual
argument to be.
MR. GOODHART: No, Your Honor. I think the
record is clear that this was directed naturally,
probably without the -- without the interference or
addition of nature.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Counsel, the case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:55 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
23:24 24:15 appropriation 18:19 40:8 20:5,10,24
56:23 agree 18:23 38:3 April 27:25 28:8 55:9 34:1 43:25
ain't 8:3 area 10:15 11:8 Baltimore 45:5 brief 15:7,17
ALITO 17:19 argue 6:2 34:17,18 42:17 bring 32:25
51:10 ambit 51:21 46:15 basic 13:22 broader 52:8
40:7 argument 1:12 36:13 43:14 build 44:3
48:22 amounting 4:8 24:23 37:17 51:11 43:25
analysis 11:2,2 52:1 53:12 basis 42:17 builds 13:5
21:5 analytically 37:23 38:10,14 30:20 37:2 built 17:20 31:1
40:18,19 52:25 Arkansas 1:3,15 40:1 43:16 34:5 36:14,14
analyze 33:17 3:4 50:1,1 54:16 bulldozer 20:25
43:10 analyzes 19:23 36:12 2:4,7,10 3:8 burdens 28:21
13:23 asking 15:2 40:23 45:4
answering 23:21 assist 31:13 benefit 13:5 call 13:12
17:2 54:11 assumed 47:24 benefits 28:20 21:18 30:25
43:9 49:6 APPEARAN... August 11:9 boat 33:10 case 3:4 4:4,16
1:14 18:7 bottomland 6:14 8:1,15
appraiser 46:16 56:22 7:11,22 8:4,8 16:5 17:4,22
21:9 chain 31:25 32:3 36:18 47:22 45:19 consequential
23:2 change 15:10 claimed 9:3 compensating 26:19 27:21
26:3,6 16:14,16 51:22 claims 8:15 19:5 38:1 39:8
28:13 53:7 12:15 23:17 compensation 46:20 52:2,4
changes 16:7,11 24:8 27:7 30:5 3:20 24:11,12 52:15,18 53:16
32:7 41:7 49:13 37:16 47:16,23 33:23 36:8 53:18
37:1 changing 49:12 54:6 complained consider 23:15
45:4 channelled 31:4 classic 28:19 53:20 considerations
47:10 character 20:12 46:19 concepts 11:22 13:24 28:13
52:15 chicken 8:7 Clause 4:1 24:11 concern 43:13 consistent 12:5
56:21,22 chickens 44:7 36:8 39:16 concerns 49:14 19:22 25:25
5:1,8,13 14:15,21,25 clear 27:7 35:2 concurrence 25:3
6:2,5,22 24:21,25 25:9 56:16 52:11 constitute 3:12
7:15,20 27:6,23 28:5 cleared 54:11 condemn 35:10 4:7 5:13
11:18,19 28:16 29:3,15 clearer 19:5 condemns 42:23 construct 28:22
12:18 29:20,23 30:4 21:24 condition 4:21 constructed
18:22 30:7 31:8,16 clearly 27:16 25:16 42:14 27:14 33:20
21:14,14 31:19 37:3,7 clerk 5:24 55:23 constructing
25:3 37:19 38:8 close 29:11 conditions 55:16 34:24
27:10 42:19 47:1,8 Coal 6:22 conduct 26:18 construction
37:2 47:18 48:12 collateral 44:20 43:21 42:22 46:14
50:1 50:8 53:8 44:22 conflicts 3:25 context 25:4
54:15 56:20 come 5:25 32:21 confluence 52:6 27:4 38:18,18
50:9 comes 6:10 7:13 confusion 25:10 contrary 30:5
chooses 33:23 31:20 51:14 Congress 39:5 56:9
circuit 3:13 47:3 40:8,11,12 14:14 15:15,22
12:19 23:25 24:4,5 50:17 conjure 48:15 31:9,14,24
55:8 circuit's 3:24 commission 1:3 consensus 50:18 48:22,25 49:2
31:5 circumstance 21:12 24:17 consent 18:10 controlled 8:25
54:22 44:11 46:23 49:9,14 consequence controls 15:19
circumstances 50:19 53:20,24 27:19 30:13,17 convened 50:19
33:18 cite 30:23 48:2,19 54:13 consequences 22:19 28:11
cited 15:16 committee 3:14 12:2 36:2 41:11,12
15:13 City 22:22 23:1 compelling 8:19 32:6 38:19,24 50:17,21 51:9
21:24 23:3 27:15 15:25 39:1 44:20 51:12,14,17,20
55:23 claim 36:15,16 compensate 50:3 52:20 53:6
Cress 20:12 37:10 53:6 25:21,25 34:3 33:15 47:19
14:24 critical 26:2 deciding 38:17 difference 35:21 doubt 31:14
40:24 44:18 decision 3:24 37:9,12,20 42:12
27:13 24:17 40:1,3 47:16 different 11:22 27:24 30:14
56:20,21 current 36:18 51:12 52:23 29:9 30:12 32:6 34:13,20
cuts 31:12 decrease 46:17 differently 41:1 42:16,18
D definitely 22:17 19:12 52:16 53:1,18
4:5,17 dam 13:20 16:21 degree 22:19 12:13,16 14:3 42:2 50:20
6:14,18 17:20,23 26:7 depart 27:5 21:5 24:9 25:5 dramatic 30:21
8:15 26:13,22 28:12 38:21 32:7 38:24 drawn 40:12
12:15 28:24 29:6,12 department 52:4 53:19 54:15
17:13,22 29:22 30:1 1:18 20:5,24 54:21 55:11 drive 29:7
20:2,11 32:13,14,17,18 depend 10:18 directed 56:16 drives 20:25
21:11 33:21 34:5,11 38:11 45:3 directly 11:25 driving 13:25
24:8 36:4,5,13,14 depends 44:15 12:24 32:5 dump 29:8 47:5
26:5 45:25 47:3,10 deposited 29:18 34:19 55:21 duration 3:23
30:5 47:24 49:7 Deputy 1:17 director 53:25 9:1 15:22
31:6 55:1,1,3,15 designers 43:12 dirt 18:19 dye 12:19
35:16 damage 12:8,9 despite 9:11 disagree 37:20 dying 11:15
40:2,6 39:12 40:6,9 destroy 11:3 38:12 31:23
42:13 40:20 46:23 23:9 disagreeing 38:4 D.C 1:8,18
45:9 53:18 destroyed 11:14 discretion 51:21
damaged 46:22 22:9 discusses 30:24 E
49:21 damages 9:3 destroys 10:21 discussion's E 2:1 3:1,1
20:13 22:21 destruction 47:15 early 4:18 18:2
54:6 24:18 26:19 22:21,22,23 dispose 14:7 easements 20:4
26:15 42:16 46:20 determination 37:14 ecological 31:10
30:23 53:16 22:18 dispute 56:8 economic 22:17
35:15 dams 13:5 determinations dissipate 18:3 EDWIN 1:17
38:21 dam's 55:15 36:2 distinguish 22:8 2:6 24:23
43:15 Day 53:25 develop 50:17 distinguishes effect 17:25 25:7
days 46:8 development 26:17 31:2 40:18
decide 28:17 deviations 8:16 disturb 23:25 6:17 11:3
13:7,16 14:6 favorite 21:1 9:19 17:2 23:6 54:7
existed 17:24 19:8 23:14,17 flooding 3:11 15:23
18:22 expectations 25:13 28:21 5:12 6:15 8:21 friend's 25:12
expected 44:7 38:12 47:15,22 13:21 18:4 3:25 39:22
32:6 Fifth 3:12 16:18 25:3,5,5,16 G
expressing 5:4 fighting 37:15 27:19 28:23,24 Game 1:3 3:4
18:4 35:3 financial 22:6 42:22 46:5,8,9 6:22 12:4,6
19:25 53:2 findings 27:7 floodings 9:5 41:5 47:24
50:21 extra 14:18 30:5 31:22 floodplain 46:13 generations
37:17 47:9 46:15 17:24
22:25 53:12 fire 12:21 flood-taking getting 42:14
49:13 46:16,23 47:14 Fish 1:3 3:5 54:9 flowage 26:14 23:12 24:13
27:15 14:17 35:2 8:17,23 10:12 focus 26:5 45:11 go 14:16 16:9
facts 4:20 8:19 11:3 14:9,12 48:2 31:25,25 32:2
45:20 fair 26:9 41:22 28:25 29:1,4 12:1 47:22 55:9
fairly 43:2 31:9,14,21,23 foreseeable 20:2 going 10:17 13:3
55:13 falls 43:5 39:11,13 40:5 36:22,23 13:18,19 16:12
28:20 farm 8:7 33:9 48:21,22,23,25 35:22 29:5,5,6,7,8
41:6 farmers 28:14 49:2 50:4,11 forth 32:16 30:8 31:4,20
41:8,13,16 50:11 51:14 found 6:14,24 32:3 33:21,22
40:9,13 48:17,22 46:11 49:19 hypothetical intended 4:1
41:15 governmental harmed 9:2 16:5 21:10 12:1
47:11 38:25 21:18 42:25 48:11 intent 25:18
50:10 Government's harshness 50:2 intentionality
52:21,24 3:14 12:17 harvesting I 11:22
54:20 13:12,13 15:17 41:10 idea 19:12,19 interest 3:22
20:12 25:10 hear 3:3 ignore 38:23 40:11
3:6,7,9 42:5 43:10 34:10 impact 47:25 interests 5:16
5:2,9 6:13 48:18 held 5:16 25:3 51:11 13:6
8:5 grant 28:16 39:8 41:3 impaired 9:5 interfere 9:23
9:14,20 Great 39:5 42:16 important 26:4 9:25 16:17
greater 46:21 help 13:8 23:13 39:3 40:10 interference
14:2,10 group 50:19 33:21 42:14 10:8 21:7
groups 49:9 helpful 32:24 impossible 22:24 56:17
16:9 guarantee 53:3 high 20:23 44:1 10:22 Interior 20:6
17:3 guaranteeing higher 15:11 inaccurate 4:17 intermittent
18:11 16:18 16:6 inch 14:18 18:14,14
19:7,14 guarantees 3:25 history 39:23 incidental 26:12 intervening 42:1
20:9 guess 13:1 15:2 40:3 55:25 30:13,17 32:8 interwoven 13:2
21:3,23 17:11 19:9 56:2 48:24 intrinsically
23:3 25:19 44:10 hoc 49:9 50:19 include 11:15 25:22,23
24:6 52:11,23 included 39:10 intruded 10:7
53:10,12 H hold 5:20 6:9 including 51:10 intrudes 3:21
55:5,17 handle 50:23 13:17 52:17 5:16
56:3,11 handled 49:5 holding 5:7,7 incremental intrusion 9:16
happen 14:23 11:24 30:24 46:7 10:9,17 11:6
12:22 happened 8:23 7:5,10,25 8:5 incur 54:20,21 54:22
10:23 17:20 8:14 9:14,20 indicated 10:8 intrusive 21:25
16:21 26:23 44:8,8 10:3,18,25 15:6 invasion 3:20,23
25:14 55:4,6,24 12:12 14:2,13 indirect 52:1 4:7,16 5:15
26:9,10 happening 15:5,13 16:9 individual 36:1 6:17 12:13
27:22,24 13:21 29:25 16:25 17:11,21 38:6 52:10 14:4 21:12
30:14 56:10 18:11,15 19:7 inevitably 35:17 23:5,7 26:16
happens 18:8 19:21 20:9 injury 4:8 11:25 invasions 4:23
31:1,9,20 32:18 41:18 21:3,23 22:10 24:9 27:21 8:17,23 9:22
44:17 49:14 22:17 23:4,20 44:21 21:25 55:21
33:7,20 50:5,16 23:23 24:18 inside 43:22 inventoried
35:9 happenstance 54:14,23 55:5 insignia 12:20 11:16
40:4,21 40:25 55:17 56:15,19 insofar 35:24 inventory 11:12
42:1 Harbor 8:21,22 Honors 3:17 instance 55:12 investigation
43:9,25 Harbor's 12:22 Hotel 8:22 Insurance 23:4 41:4
hard 32:5 hunting 46:24 insurer 15:14,19 invited 28:21
hardwood 17:24 hurt 13:9 33:21 intend 25:15 issue 3:11 8:13
harm 9:6,12 hurtful 32:25 48:11 11:23 12:1
41:14 39:15,18 40:14 37:18,24 38:16 44:23 46:2,4,4 43:6 48:22
41:14,21 42:4 39:17,21 40:15 46:5,12,12,14 Life 22:22 23:3
43:7,25 44:22 42:8,13,21 47:5 48:2,14 limiting 52:13
43:4,14 44:15 48:16,17,19,24 line 17:12 40:12
49:16,23 50:8 47:7,12,21 Landing 8:22 Lionel 52:17
3:7 40:2 51:19,25 52:19 50:15 51:3,7 9:15 16:16 litigation 13:11
53:12 53:8 54:14,24 51:17,20,25 17:7 23:10 little 1:15 25:10
56:1,7,12,20 knew 12:20 30:8 27:24 30:3 50:3
Kansas 22:22 know 6:7 7:8,14 16:12 36:7 look 12:19 22:16
4:3,13,25 keep 49:12 14:18,19 15:24 landowner's 33:1
6:13 Kennedy 15:2,6 19:7,11,12 3:21 26:18 looked 18:10
7:3,6,11 16:2,13,20 20:1,4 21:6 29:19 20:15
8:2 17:1,8 24:3 22:13 23:13 lands 16:7 looking 19:24
9:2,18,24 35:21 42:25 28:18 31:10,10 language 4:15 22:24 31:21
43:7 54:15 31:21,22 32:24 late 18:2,2 35:25
13:1 Kennedy's 26:3 38:8 43:12 Laughter 39:20 Loretto 20:16
34:19 54:25 48:11 50:3 50:14 25:4 26:14
15:2,6 kept 31:4 51:15 54:14 laundry 6:23 7:3 27:11 43:17
kill 10:15 44:7 knows 48:7 7:4,4,6,15,19 52:7
18:9 killed 40:19 Kress 4:19 law 5:24 16:10 Loretto's 20:18
19:11 Kimball 6:23 24:7 49:6 lose 41:19 51:7
20:5 7:3,3,15,19 L lawsuit 32:25 51:16 55:4,16
21:14 kind 55:4 lake 11:4 leading 52:17 55:19
23:1 kinds 32:22 land 4:7 7:12 left 16:23 23:14 loses 51:6,13
24:3,13 Kneedler 1:17 9:8 12:22 legal 11:2 22:18 loss 13:18 22:6
25:9 2:6 24:22,23 15:12 17:1,23 32:10 lot 9:4,4 11:21
27:1,6 24:25 25:18 18:20 20:3,6 legislative 39:23 19:16 22:8
28:5,16 26:25 27:3,9 21:1,18,21 legitimate 16:3 32:19 37:16
28:4,10,19 22:13 26:10,22 let's 19:1 44:1 lots 14:17
31:8 29:9,17,21,24 27:19 28:6,17 levee 31:1,1 41:6 low 54:9
32:10 30:6,10,18 29:19,24 30:11 level 15:1 34:6 Lynah 4:18
34:1,2 31:15,17 32:2 31:6,12,21 liability 39:25
33:2,12,18 32:14 33:9 42:11 51:24 M
35:6 34:4,8,13,16 34:7 35:8,10 54:20,21 main 43:2
36:10 34:22 35:5,11 38:25 42:23,24 liable 35:17,20 making 36:4
37:3 35:14,24 36:17 43:1,21,22 39:8,12,19 51:11
38:8 36:22,25 37:4 44:2,7,12,17 40:9 42:16 manageable
Missouri-Ark... 40:15 operate 36:5 37:8 40:11
11:8 mode 3:22 note 14:21 operating 28:12 52:13
modify 4:10 50:12 51:1 48:25 36:9 49:8
months 18:17 O 47:24 30:2 40:25
morning 3:4 occasion 5:11 31:3 27:4 41:22
multifaceted 21:22,24 22:1 order 17:10 pay 16:12 33:23
51:24 multiple 11:19 43:18 ordinary 49:6 paying 16:14
23:17 21:15 outright 23:16 people 19:2
45:16 N occupy 20:20 outset 16:21 32:23 34:12
N 2:1,1 3:1 occupying 26:10 outside 26:18 39:2 42:11,18
39:18 National 16:10 occur 13:4,18,19 outtakes 48:19 54:2
41:14 natural 12:16 55:2 overflights 8:20 percolate 31:11
44:5 15:21 17:6 occurred 6:19 overflow 4:7 percolating 23:5
48:11 18:1 53:19 occurring 56:9 18:7 31:5 perfect 19:1
55:16,22 occurs 25:4 overland 7:21 period 9:7 21:22
nature 41:20,23 office 54:2 39:16 permanence
19:16 56:18 okay 5:22 19:1 owe 23:10 permanency
52:6 necessarily 31:16 32:17 owned 26:22 8:12 51:5,5
33:7 necessary 4:6 old 43:11 ownership 4:21 5:22
44:23 49:25 once 10:24 41:24 11:18 12:8,9
need 20:1 24:19 11:12 36:13,14 oxygen 11:10 18:13 20:17
54:20 ones 5:18,25 6:7 P 26:16 27:18
17:20 18:8 10:14 21:10 parallels 33:19 36:21 37:5,13
27:14 32:25 34:20 open 23:18 56:8 part 11:24 13:2 40:16,17,20
55:24 opened 47:10 13:18 18:6,18 43:20 45:1
35:17,20 40:2 44:18 process 11:15 purchase 20:4 reclaimed 6:15
45:2 46:6 50:6,12 52:14 purchases 42:24 6:16
points 26:15 53:5,7 purpose 31:13 reclamation
45:15,22 policy 13:24 26:11 41:3 put 16:22,22 recognized
2:4,10 3:8 population 48:23,25 49:2 33:22 recognizes
53:13 49:13 50:4 puts 18:19 28:24 42:24
48:15 8:20,22 12:22 40:5 32:12 52:11
14:3 40:16 43:7 6:16 7:16 9:16 12:8 13:9,19 54:10 56:16
19:23 49:23 10:10,17 14:6 16:2 23:21 recorded 55:25
21:15,18 possibly 55:3,18 15:4,23 16:17 24:3 27:8,9 56:2
24:7 potentially 13:9 20:20,21 21:8 34:19 43:4,18 recounts 40:3
43:18 practice 16:19 22:21 23:5,7,9 47:2 50:10 recover 33:1
47:3 presenting 45:15,22 47:4 R regardless 3:22
47:20 preserved 37:22 proposition 5:20 rainfall 56:9 24:18
pretty 27:7 protect 27:15 raised 24:16 regular 41:12
55:15 principles 49:6 9:16 10:17 ranger 21:17 49:11
52:14 priority 15:11 41:10 reach 50:25 19:24 33:11,13
private 16:12 42:6 11:19 related 50:1
probably 19:2 protested 53:20 43:16 41:7 48:23
30:22 13:1 19:6 provide 3:19 reasons 3:18 49:3,5
37:6 36:11 46:10 54:11 36:2 38:7 53:1 releases 15:20
39:4,22 49:4 50:23 public 36:9 49:8 REBUTTAL 18:3 33:21
45:18 problematic 50:11 2:8 53:12 53:19
32:8 Procedure 51:8 Pumpelly 4:18 18:3 41:5 45:8,9
resulting 20:13 rockets 43:12 27:1 30:16 sits 11:4
24:5,6 25:6 46:7 roots 11:10 41:21 42:4,12 29:10 31:1
retroactive 36:7 route 13:6 46:9 49:16,23 35:16 48:5,7
revetment 17:5 rule 3:18 5:4 se 33:5 six 10:24 15:7
9:21 14:6,7,7 25:14 33:5,8,8 22:7 Smith 33:7
18:21,22,25 ruling 3:13 seizure 6:21 solely 3:15
22:5 33:11 35:5 24:11 somebody 42:6
49:8 47:4 49:19 S 1:17 2:1,6 3:1 53:3 somebody's
34:14,20 16:17 20:20 5:11,14 17:18 separate 17:14 someplace 16:22
35:2,8 21:8 54:16 21:4 somewhat 18:23
42:23 Riparian 41:24 Sanguinetti's series 36:1,4 18:23 46:21
48:14 rising 14:25 11:24 38:5 43:9,24 sorry 14:22
23:6 27:15 saying 5:5 10:5 35:25 SOTOMAYOR
31:2,3,5 41:24 14:22 16:13 shooting 7:23,24 14:9,12 34:2,5
2:7 24:24 rivers 18:7 27:3 36:13 shots 8:21 36:10,20,23
14:15,21 24:21 says 15:18 16:21 10:7 17:7 54:24 55:14,18
40:4 28:5,16 29:3 28:6 29:4 shown 27:16 sounds 50:13
30:4,7 31:8,16 45:7 48:22 40:10 special 5:4
33:3 10:9,16 14:5 takes 15:19 44:4 think 6:7,8 8:12 trampling 20:6
14:18 20:14,16 55:9 12:5 15:6 transmitting
23:7 24:9 17:14,15 19:23 26:4,9 27:1,9 trees 10:15,21
30:23 substantially 43:17 52:3 29:13,17 30:4 22:9 31:13,23
43:16 3:21 5:15 11:7 talked 8:4 30:12,22 31:15 32:5 33:9
substitute 19:20 talking 28:11 32:5 33:2,5 40:19 41:19
summary 4:17 tells 27:24 54:6,23 56:12 trespassing
8:6,25 52:22,23 55:3 26:23 35:13 thinking 18:13 trial 47:9
14:4 summertime temporary 3:11 thinks 15:10 tried 5:24
15:17,18 8:18 18:4 4:23 5:1,6,8,10 thought 29:20 troubles 22:3
18:6 55:24 5:12,15,17,21 32:11 34:10 trucks 29:5
23:8 24:2 summing 26:14 6:11,12 11:18 37:13 44:12 true 45:25
51:23 27:11 11:21 13:14,16 47:8 truth 18:12
55:8,8 superinduced 19:9 25:14 thousand 42:2 try 50:22,25
56:6 9:22 26:16 35:7,25 three 6:2 14:16 trying 12:4 17:5
support 5:20 6:8 40:17 43:20,24 timber 9:3,4 turn 21:12 40:24
54:13 suppose 9:6,6 tempted 18:25 56:6 turned 4:16
35:1 43:1,1 term 11:21 32:4 9:7 16:24 two 3:18 14:2
sure 31:19,19 43:5 46:25 51:22 43:19 52:5
suspect 7:16 53:8,14 56:19 timing 8:25 typically 29:12
theory 34:3 today 36:11 U
T 2:1,1 thing 6:10 7:9 torts 17:14 21:4 47:16
28:12,17 29:2 33:15,24 35:18 totally 34:2 41:25
51:9 things 25:20 touched 26:4 understand
19:12 Valentine's 29:1,4 39:8,14 Y 2 28:3,7 45:2,2
53:25 46:21 48:21,23 yards 32:23 50:11 51:1,15
54:7 20:20 22:8 31:10 32:12 18:17,17 35:3 2000 11:6 54:3
valuation 46:17 44:8,11 48:2 43:3 46:10 2012 1:9
various 51:10 52:16 years 7:7 8:11 25 8:11
21:11
Vicksburg went 7:8 8:11 22:14,14 27:17 3 1:9 2:4 7:7
8:6,24 viewed 37:14 46:22 47:4,20 37:21 45:2,2 51:15
14:4 vote 40:21 weren't 40:20 47:18 49:11
15:17,18 48:18 4
56:4 4 44:23 46:8,8
18:6 W we'll 3:3 46:21
23:8 24:1 walk 33:10 we're 13:17 Z 40 56:4
51:23 walking 21:17 14:22 15:2 zero 6:1
55:8,8 16:22 28:11
26:2 $ 5 46:8
56:5 29:5,5,6,7,8
39:19 $4 54:3 50 37:21 49:10
48:6 29:4 1
50:12 51:15 6 8:16 11:7
50:9,12 51:15 27:17,18 47:18
1:13 3:2 6,990-acre 11:14
wasn't 35:25 wires 44:2 100,000 11:13 7
water 7:14 8:2 withdraw 4:10 11-597 1:4 3:4
12:18,19,23 word 22:5 110 32:6 48:1 8 8:16 11:6
14:7 15:23 16:11,22 worked 17:17 1700 23:7 9
17:9 18:3 20:3 18:1 19 47:23 95a 47:15
21:4 21:12 23:5 working 50:16 1904 17:4 99a 47:15
23:9 29:5,8,11 30:8 50:19 1927 39:5
32:4 31:11 32:1,13 worth 31:13 1928 39:4,11
48:19 32:14,19 33:16 54:4 1947 6:14
54:12 34:6 36:4,6 wouldn't 22:12 1950 22:23 23:4
53:23 1998 47:22
