IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
SUPAP KIRTSAENG, DBA :
BLUECHRISTINE99 :
Petitioner : No. 11-697
v. :
JOHN WILEY & SONS, INC. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, October 29, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ, ESQ., New York, New York; on
behalf of Petitioner.
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United
States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae, 42
supporting the Respondent
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 11-696 -- 697, Kirtsaeng v. John Wiley &
Sons.
Mr. Rosenkranz.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
This case presents a stark choice between
two plausible definitions of the phrase, "lawfully made
under this title." Our definition is the more
consistent with the English language, and is the only
definition that does not do mischief with the same use
of that phrase each time it's repeated.
Ours is the only one consistent with a
400-year common law history, and 65-year-old right that
was in the statute through 1976, and consistent with the
principle that Congress doesn't abolish those things
without being clear.
Ours gives the copyright owners much of what
they asked for when they were seeking an importation
provision, just not everything; whereas, Wiley's grants
them rights far beyond anything that anyone could have
imagined asking for back then.
Ours --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But your reading -- your
reading is essentially, once a copy is sold anywhere,
the copyright owner loses control of distribution
everywhere.
That is essentially your argument.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: That is correct,
Your Honor. And to put a finer point on it, ours is
that "lawfully made under this title" means made
wherever, in a way that satisfies U.S. copyright
standards, made in accordance with --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So -- but -- so this
notion of sold anywhere, end of distribution rights
everywhere, that has been called, I think, the universal
exhaustion principle.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: International exhaustion.
Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And we are told that no
country has adopted that international exhaustion
regime, that most countries adhere to the national
exhaustion regime, which nobody is contesting here.
That is, if it's manufactured in the United States and
sold in the United States, that copy belongs to the
person who purchased it, end of case. But if the
exhaustion doctrine applies only nationally, then your
argument is asking for something that runs against the
regime that is accepted in most places.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, I have a few
answers to that. The first is it is not true that no
country adopts national exhaustion. Congress adopted
national exhaustion in sections 905 and 906 6 years
after the statute was passed, as to microchips.
But second, Wiley is making the point that
there is now a norm. They say most States -- most
countries, that is. Back in 1976 Wiley is not even
arguing that there was any international norm, much less
that the drafters of the statute were focused on
international norms; and the truth is that there isn't
an international consensus around national exhaustion.
We know that for a fact. In 1994 when 125 nations got
together, they -- they agreed to disagree on
international copyright exhaustion principles, and they
codified that disagreement, to each his own, in the
TRIPS agreement.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, let's take, for
example, the European Union, the position in -- in those
countries. Suppose we -- we just transformed --
transferred this case to one of those countries, the
exact same case; and my understanding is that they would
follow the national exhaustion.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: No, Your Honor, not to
quibble; they don't follow national exhaustion. They
follow regional exhaustion. So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but not -- not
exhaust -- you sell a copy in -- in Thailand; then it's
home free all over the world.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Agreed, Your Honor, but it
is regional, it's not national. And -- and the point
here is we've got to of course read what Congress wrote.
What Congress wrote was "lawfully made under this
title," not "lawfully made in the United States," or not
"lawfully made under this title and made in the United
States." When Congress wants to say that, Congress says
that very explicitly.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you mean by "lawfully
made under this title," simply lawfully made in a manner
that does not violate United States copyright law?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: No, Your Honor. Just, I --
I would say "lawfully made under this title" means
lawfully made in a manner that does not violate the
standards articulated.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The standards, okay. So --
so it could be lawfully made in England, let's say; in a
country that has compulsory licensing, it could be
lawfully made there, but it would not be lawfully made
under our -- under our copyright law, because we don't
have that.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor. Let me
give a -- an example that actually is consistent with
what --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so at least they are
correct in contending that what you are arguing for is
-- is not lawfully made under -- lawfully made if the
United States copyright law had applied where it was
made; is that what you are saying?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: No, Your Honor. And the
reason is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: -- that that statute that
you just described would only do a third of the job of
the first-sale doctrine. Everyone agrees the first-sale
doctrine applies at a minimum to products made in the
United States. And if you use that counterfactual, if
U.S. law had applied, it would indicate that it, the
first-sale doctrine, does not apply in situations where
it was made in the United States. So the
counterfactual --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- I don't follow
that.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: So the first-sale doctrine
applies to goods made in the United States --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: -- and to goods made
outside of the United States, is our argument.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: If it applies in the United
States, if we're talking about goods made in the United
States, the counterfactual "if this title had applied"
would not work, because this title does apply to the
goods made in the United States, and that's the core of
the first-sale doctrine.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, Mr. Rosenkranz, is
what -- is your theory of this statute essentially that
this language means non-piratical copies as that is
defined by U.S. copyright law?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor, if I may
just change one word, because "piratical" is a
mischievous word. Back in the day when the -- when the
1976 statute was passed, "piratical" meant unlawful
under the laws of other countries.
JUSTICE KAGAN: No.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes. So --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I said as defined by U.S.
copyright law.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Absolutely. And -- and the
key --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So that's, that's what the
statute means. It's -- the statute in your view is
setting up a distinction between piratical, pirated,
whatever the term is -- copies --
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Counterfeit.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- and other copies, and
saying that that distinction should be measured by U.S.
copyright law?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: That is right. And Your
Honor, the reason was -- what was driving copyright
owners crazy was this notion that there were lawless
states out there that had no significant copyright
protection. And we were applying their standards to
products that were infiltrating the U.S. market. And
one of the most important things to underscore here,
which I think got lost in the Costco argument, is that
the space -- that 602 does an enormous amount of work
even with 109, the first-sale doctrine, carved out of
it.
Copyright owners wanted three things out of
the 1976 Act with respect to importation, and they got
two and a half of them. The first was what we've just
been talking about, Your Honor. It was driving them
crazy that there were lawless states out there; they
gave the example of Russia, which -- where an agency
approved the making and distribution within Russia of
classic English language works. They got imported to
the U.S. and they were competing with U.S. works, U.S.
copies within our domestic market. And they got their
wish to shut that down, to use U.S. law as the standard
for those works.
Secondly, they got coverage for copies that
were lawfully made, but stolen. And this was the one
ask that the film industry had. We see it in the
colloquies. They rented films abroad. The films --
that was their business model. The films would get
stolen; and the U.S. market would be awash with stolen
films. And so they wanted to shut down, with the
importation provision, those stolen goods coming into
the U.S. market.
And the third thing that they wanted is --
is what's been dominating this debate. But it's only
the third thing, and that was help dividing geographic
markets, so that they could go after the rogue
distributors, yes, but also go after the downstream
sales. They got half of that. They got a cause of
action against the rogue distributors. They did not get
a cause of action that went downstream.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Rosenkranz, can I
ask you, just -- it is a practical question, but I think
it has a theoretical impact. A manufacturer can choose
to contract or a copyright holder choose to contract
with someone here to manufacture their goods. They
could contract with someone abroad, anywhere in the
world, directly. They can choose to license their
trademark and permit a distributor abroad to manufacture
under their U.S. copyright; or they can permit the
licensee to register the copyright abroad and
distribute. In your definition of "lawfully made under
this title," does "lawfully made under this title" apply
to all of those situations, i.e. --
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- I think clearly to
the manufacturer who manufactures abroad --
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- clearly to the
manufacturer who licensed a distributor to do it for it.
But does it also apply to the -- to the copyright owner
who basically gives the copyright to a foreign
distributor and lets the foreign distributor -- register
it abroad?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor. The only
question under our definition is, was the making lawful,
which is to say, was it authorized, whether it's by
transfer of licensing or by transfer of copyright or in
any other way? Is it lawful as measured by U.S.
standards? And -- and the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That is -- that is
broader than I thought. Then I'm not quite sure why you
don't mean if this title applied. Because if the --
MR. ROSENKRANZ: If --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the manufacturer who
is manufacturing under the English copyright, because
the distributor has an English copyright, is not
manufacturing under the U.S. copyright, they are
manufacturing under the English copyright.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Right. And, Your Honor,
the reason that the language works the way we've
described is because we are not focusing on whether the
making was under this title; we're focusing on whether
it was lawful under this title. Does this -- would this
title, when you apply it to wherever it happens to be,
whether in the United States or abroad, would this title
say that this is authorized?
Now, let me just circle back again. The
reason if this title had been applicable doesn't work is
because there are enormous numbers of situations,
probably three-quarters of them, that the First Sale
Doctrine applies to where this title does apply.
And so trying to say where -- you know, if
this title had applied would work for foreign goods
coming in, but not for U.S. goods, which is the core of
the First Sale Doctrine.
JUSTICE BREYER: But you don't have to
say -- you can say both, either it was manufactured
directly and received an American copyright and
satisfied all the conditions, or, if that wasn't the
case, it was manufactured in a way that satisfied the
conditions of the American statute, even though, for
technical reasons, it didn't apply.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor. And, in
fact, (a)(2) --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what your argument
is, I take it.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes. In 2008 --
JUSTICE BREYER: So we are off on a kind of
curly cue here.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor. But -- so
what Congress did was to find a much simpler, more
efficient way to say all of that.
In 2008, it figured that out and put --
JUSTICE BREYER: I take it that the reason
they wrote -- or changed the statute was just because
they were worried about bailees or lessees or somebody
under the old statutes not satisfying the first -- they
were worried about that -- somebody -- a printer
lawfully obtains a book, and he shouldn't have advantage
of the First Sale Doctrine.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Well, Your --
JUSTICE BREYER: He's in the middle of
printing it. And therefore you have to change the
language. So they changed the language to "lawfully
made under this title."
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Am I right; or, if I am
wrong, why did they change it?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, that is exactly
right. And just not to diminish it --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it all right? Wasn't
there also the question of allowing manufacturers to
segment markets so we'd have the copyright by abroad,
governed by foreign law, copyright in the United States
governed by U.S. law? Wasn't segmentation of the market
allowing people to do just what these people are doing?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: So, Justice Ginsburg, my
answer to Justice Breyer was about why the language in
109 was changed, that is, from "obtained possession" to
"lawfully made."
And that was -- what Justice Breyer pointed
out was exactly why, because -- and not to minimize
bailees, bailees was the movie industry problem.
Bailees was stealing things from the manufacturers'
loading docks or from shippers. But, yes, Your Honor,
there was also a segment of the publishing industry that
wanted that third thing.
JUSTICE BREYER: I couldn't find a word. I
could not find a word of that in the legislative
history. Irwin Karp, who was the strongest
representative for the publishers, said you couldn't do
that ten years earlier.
So is there --
MR. ROSENKRANZ: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but you just said yes
in answer to Justice Ginsburg's question. So she'll
find exactly what there is there, so I would like to
know what it is.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, I -- I was
answering yes to was this a motivation of the
publishers. And if I misunderstood the question, Your
Honor --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But a motivation for 109, or
a motivation for 602?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: A motivation for 602.
When the conversation turned to 109,
Your Honor, not a word was uttered about dividing
distribution or divided markets. It was all about this
problem --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So on 602, you said that one
of the things that they wanted was the segmentation of
markets. They got half of it. They got the rogue
distributors' half.
And I guess Mr. Olson makes the point, and
it seems a good one, it's like that's a crazy half to
have gotten. That's the kind that they don't need
because they have a contractual remedy about -- against
the distributors.
And then they don't get people like,
frankly, your client, who are rogue something elses,
with no contractual privity. And what sense does that
make?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Well, it makes perfect
sense, Your Honor. Obviously, you know, the industry,
at least back in 1976, did not get everything that they
wanted. What they got was a much more powerful weapon
than a contract.
I mean, a copyright weapon gives you
injunctive relief, gives you multiples of damages which
you don't get out of a contract remedy.
But to Justice Breyer's point, because I
think it's an important one, when you go to the
history -- and I think you are right, Your Honor, that
there is exactly one spot in the drafting history where
the relationship between 602 and 109 was discussed. It
was that conversation between Clark and Goldman, who was
the general counsel of the copyright office.
It's on pages 11 to 12 of our reply brief.
It's recited in extensive detail in the amicus brief
that Costco submitted. And here's what happened. They
got their importation provision. And Karp says, now,
wait a minute, I don't get it. You have got this
importation provision, and you've got this First Sale
Doctrine. They are at war with each other. Which one
wins?
They seem to be agreeing that first sale
wins, but they realize that there is this problem. And
what they do, the general counsel of the copyright
office says, we obviously haven't thought this through.
We need to do more work on this, says the librarian of
Congress. And the next thing that happens, you see it
in a red line on page 13 of our reply brief, is that for
the first time in the drafting history, the two are
reconciled by making 602 subordinate to 109, in exactly
the way that Quality King found it to be.
So the copyright owners got half the loaf.
It may not have been the half that was more important to
them, but they got a lot more from the extension of the
-- the importation provision.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Rosenkranz, there is
that passage in Quality King, which is, I think it's
fair to say, unfortunate to your position. Is your
basic view of that passage that it was simply
ill-considered dicta that we should ignore?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: To put it bluntly, yes.
That's my ultimate position. But I do think it can be
reconciled with our position.
Let's start with the question presented in
Quality King is exactly the question that is presented
here, and the Court answered it yes, that is, do
imports -- is 109 applicable to imports.
The whole driving logic of Quality King is
about 109 trumping 602. And it's only in that part IV,
where the court is rebutting various attacks on its
position, that it gets to that dictum, and that dictum
is in the third tier explanation to one of five
rebuttals.
I believe it can be reconciled, certainly in
result. What you had there was the foreign distributor
who had only British rights importing directly into the
United States. There was never a first sale.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, in result, but not in
reasoning. The passage specifically says this was
presumably not to be lawfully made under this title.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: And I have an -- I agree
with you, Your Honor. I have an explanation. I offer
it tentatively. I'm not sure whether it's right or not,
either as to what the Court intended or under the
statute.
My hunch is the Court was thinking about a
scenario where the British publisher only needs 10,000
copies to cover Britain; but, instead, what it does is
to print 100,000 copies. Everyone would know that that
is not authorized, it's not lawfully made under this
title, because the intent is to send it over to the
United States. So it's not lawfully made at that
moment.
Let me also just mention an important
undergirding to our position, which is that our position
is the only one that does not make a complete hash out
of every uses of the same phrase -- every use of the
same phrase in the rest of the statute. Wiley's reading
makes almost all of them nonsensical.
So let me just give you an example. Section
110, the classroom provision. Wiley acknowledges this
is the result, but doesn't explain why Congress would
ever have wanted it. The result is that a teacher can
go and buy a Beethoven record and play it to her class
if it was made in the United States. But if she flips
one past it to the next Beethoven record that happens to
have been made in Asia, she can't play that for her
class.
Or section 109(c), the public display, the
Buffalo Cafe owner is allowed to purchase something in
the United States and put it up on her walls, you know,
say, a picture of Niagara Falls. That is permissible,
if it was made in the United States. But off the same
retail rack, she flips one past; if it was made in Asia,
it's not permissible.
Nor does Wiley explain why Congress would
adopt an exception to the First Sale Doctrine that is
not at all about sales, that is only about where copies
were made.
So a U.S. manufacturer who wants to sell
into the U.S. market has this incentive to go and send
jobs overseas. It's an irresistible incentive if the
law is -- if this Court says the law is what Wiley says.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Has that ever happened?
I mean, the Ninth Circuit cases have been around for
some time. Has any manufacturer ever moved abroad?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, I'm sure it
has. They haven't announced it. Now, let me just be
clear. The Ninth Circuit came out with its opinion,
this Court has intervened twice, so the law has never
been settled in Wiley's favor. The courts were split.
The moment that a manufacturer learns that
this Court says you get what we've called the Holy Grail
of manufacturing, endless eternal downstream control
over sales and rentals, you can ruin secondary markets
that are competing with you, the moment that happens,
that will be yet another reason for manufacturers
silently to decide that they're headed -- that they're
sending their manufacturing overseas.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of -- of those -- of those
courts that did hold the way your -- your opponent
would -- would have it, am I correct that only one of
them adopted the absolutist rule?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Well, Your Honor, there are
only three courts of appeals that have weighed in, but
yes, the Second Circuit is the only one that has adopted
the absolutist rule, and that's yet another problem with
Wiley's position. Wiley urges its position as a matter
of statutory interpretation, but is refusing to stand by
it. The moment it gets past the language of the
statute, every argument it makes is an argument that is
about tempering what -- you know, like a sky hook coming
down from on high, tempering its interpretation in a
manner that is completely inconsistent with the
statutory language.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The government argues in
effect for -- what we might call it -- a common law
adaptation of Bobbs-Merrill.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor, which --
which is even -- creates even more mischief. The
government's position, as I understand it, is 109
doesn't have to do any work. In service of giving more
berth, you know, greater magnitude to 602, we're going
to make 109 completely superfluous because Bobbs-Merrill
does all of the work.
Now, 109 Congress said -- it put into the
statute, it said it on every recodification to codify
Bobbs-Merrill, and the government is now making 109
completely irrelevant, but picking and choosing,
deciding that it wants the limitation on us from 109,
but borrowing from Bobbs-Merrill some reservoir of law
that modifies the first-sale doctrine.
If there are no further questions, I would
like --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Rosenkranz, can I take
you back to Justice Ginsburg's opening question? Just
as a matter of copyright theory, I had always understood
copyright to -- a copyright holder has a kind of a
bundle of rights. It's not one right that applies
everywhere in the world. It's you have your U.S. rights
and you have your Chinese rights, you have your rights
under each jurisdiction's law.
And your position is essentially to say that
when I sell my Chinese rights to somebody, I'm also
selling my U.S. rights to that same person, because the
person who has the Chinese rights can just turn around
and import the goods. I mean, that's the nature of your
position, isn't it, that your U.S. rights are always
attached when you sell more -- your rights under the
jurisdiction of another country?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Well -- so first, Your
Honor, back in 1976, this notion of geographic division
was very, very new, so it's not at all clear what
Congress was thinking with that -- with respect to that.
But secondly, no, we're not -- we're not saying that
when the owner sells his Chinese -- its Chinese rights
to the Chinese company, it is selling all rights.
Certainly, the Chinese company cannot sell everywhere,
but after that first sale, all of the manufacturer's
rights are cut off.
If I may reserve the rest of my time for
rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Thank you, Your Honors.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Olson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Petitioner's commercial enterprise is
precisely what Section 602(a)(1) was enacted to address,
an international gray market in copyrighted works. This
Court unanimously recognized in the Quality King case
that 602(a)(1) encompasses copies of books that were
lawfully made not under the United States' Copyright
Act, but under the law of some other country.
602(a) is broader than 6 -- 109(a), because
it encompasses copies not subject to the first-sale
doctrine, for example copies made under the law of
another country. These are the words of every member of
this Court in the Quality King case.
Now, referring to it as dicta misstates what
was going on in the Quality King case. The argument was
that if you interpret 602(a) and 109(a) as allowing a
defense, a first-sale defense, you emasculate Section
602(a), and so the Court was explaining on page 147 and
148, I believe, why there were three reasons why 602(a)
would have viability. And one of those reasons had to
do with direct action against someone that was engaged
in pirating, and some of it had to do with bailees and
lessees. These are relatively small problems either
otherwise dealt with by contract law or otherwise dealt
with by the provisions of the statute.
But the third reason for the Court's
interpretation and its decision in that case was
precisely the case that we're talking about here.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, it may be important
dictum, but do you really want to argue it wasn't
dictum?
MR. OLSON: I do.
JUSTICE ALITO: It was the holding of the
case?
MR. OLSON: It was the holding of the case
in the sense that it was necessary, the Court felt. And
we could -- you know, I don't -- I don't feel I want to
spend a lot of time arguing what the word "dicta" means,
but it was a necessary ingredient to what the Court felt
was an explanation for why it was deciding the case that
it was deciding.
JUSTICE BREYER: You don't need that.
JUSTICE KAGAN: It wasn't necessary, was it?
JUSTICE BREYER: Your -- 602(a) has plenty
of meaning. I mean, an American copyright holder
licenses a British company to publish the work under
British copyright law. 602(a) says he can't import the
books into the United States, period.
MR. OLSON: That's --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, the only -- so there's
plenty of meaning there. The question is what happens
when he sells it to his bookstore and you or I go in and
buy it and we want to give a copy to our wife when we
get back to the United States. The question is, did --
is that unlawful?
MR. OLSON: Well, we're -- well, if we're
reading the provisions of the statute, is that copy --
now, there are exceptions for the books that are brought
in --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no exception I take it
once I bring back five copies and I give one to my son.
MR. OLSON: Well, there are fair use
exceptions and there's --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, fair use.
MR. OLSON: -- other exceptions and -- and
there are exceptions for the one that you bring back for
your wife and your --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Is your
reading now that when the library imports in a book or a
film or whatever it's importing in, it goes to the
customs agent and it says to the customs agent: I don't
have the express authorization of the copyright owner,
but I'm a library, so I can import this book in?
MR. OLSON: It says --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm -- I'm a person
who's bought the book in England and I'm bringing it to
my wife? What provision gives me the right to do that?
MR. OLSON: The provisions in the statute
that deal with the libraries talk about bringing --
importing books for lending --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So deal with the wife.
MR. OLSON: -- for lending purposes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How does the wife get
her book?
MR. OLSON: What I'm -- what I'm --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no. Is there --
what provision gives the wife a right under your
reading?
MR. OLSON: With respect to the copy brought
in, in the suitcase for -- to give to a -- a family
member or to turn over to someone else?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, to keep for
yourself. As far as I understand --
MR. OLSON: Oh, to keep for yourself --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- your reading, I
brought it abroad, I can't import it in.
MR. OLSON: What -- I believe that that is
covered by the various provisions of the copyright
statute. And the question is, is it covered by section
2 -- 602(a)(1)? Yes, it's an import of an acquired
copy. Do you have a defense under the first-sale
doctrine? And I go to the exact explicit language of
the statute. There may be exceptions under other
provisions of the copyright law, but the first-sale
doctrine, 109(a) specifically says "lawfully made under
this title."
JUSTICE BREYER: The reason -- what I was
trying to bring up and I didn't do it artfully --
MR. OLSON: Well, and this --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- is, imagine Toyota, all
right? Millions sold in the United States. They have
copyrighted sound systems. They have copyrighted GPS
systems. When people buy them in America, they think
they're going to be able to resell them.
Now, under your reading -- now, this is one
of their horribles, I gather, and I want to know your
answer to it. Under their reading, the millions of
Americans who buy Toyotas could not resell them without
getting the permission of the copyright holder of every
item in that car which is copyrighted.
MR. OLSON: There may be --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right?
MR. OLSON: There may be just --
JUSTICE BREYER: Am I right or am I wrong?
Am I off base or am I wrong -- am I right?
MR. OLSON: There are other defenses, but
that is not this case. This case is not --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, how do you
distinguish? How do you distinguish?
MR. OLSON: The government -- the government
would argue for a broader interpretation under what was
made under this statute, whether that would include the
importation or the distribution in commerce. That's an
argument that the government makes, but it's not
necessary to decide this case.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, explain to me, because
there are horribles if I summarize them, millions and
millions of dollars' worth of items with copyrighted
indications of some kind in them that we import every
year; libraries with three hundred million books bought
from foreign publishers that they might sell, resell, or
use; museums that buy Picassos that now, under our last
case, receive American protection as soon as that
Picasso comes to the United States, and they can't
display it without getting permission from the five
heirs who are disputing ownership of the Picasso
copyrights.
Those are some of the horribles that they
sketch. And if I am looking for the bear in the mouse
hole, I look at those horribles, and there I see that
bear.
So I'm asking you to spend some time telling
me why I'm wrong.
MR. OLSON: Well, I'm -- first of all, I
would say that when we talk about all the horribles that
might apply in cases other than this -- museums, used
Toyotas, books and luggage, and that sort of thing --
we're not talking about this case. And what we are
talking about is the language used by the statute that
does apply to this case. And that --
JUSTICE BREYER: But we need to --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Don't those horribles --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We need to know about
those hypotheticals in order to decide this case.
MR. OLSON: Well, and that's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're aware of the fact
that if we write an opinion with the -- with the rule
that you propose, that we should, as a matter of common
sense, ask about the consequences of that rule. And
that's what we are asking.
MR. OLSON: And -- exactly, Justice Kennedy.
And that's what you were doing in the -- in the Quality
King, when we were -- we were discussing with
Justice Alito whether this is dicta or not. The Court
was specifically saying what it would apply to, and
it -- what -- what the Court was talking about in that
case was books made not pursuant to title, but pursuant
to some other country's copyright law. This copyright
law provisions --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why is it that a U.S.
copyright owner who contracts in England to make
books -- he doesn't have an English copyright, he just
simply chooses that place to manufacture as opposed to
the U.S. -- why is he making that copy under English law
and not under his rights of U.S. copyright?
MR. OLSON: Well, if he is doing -- if he is
manufacturing the book in England, he's not -- because
the copyright law does not have extraterritorial
application, he is not making those copies under this
title. And this Court --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But he's selling it
no -- no differently than Quality King was -- or the
Quality King --
MR. OLSON: But the problem is -- the
statutes may not be perfect with respect to this, and
there may be horribles that occur under one set of
interpretations of the statute, and the other
interpretation of the statute is to interpret it as --
as the petitioner --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Olson, we know from
the Karp exchange that the response was, this is
something that we have to study with care, in 1976.
The parade of horribles is now causing the
Solicitor General and at least one, if not two, courts
of appeals to write exceptions into the language to take
care of what they perceive as horribles.
Isn't it incumbent upon us to give the
statute what is plainly a more rational plain meaning
than to try to give it a meaning and then fix it because
we understand that the meaning doesn't make sense?
MR. OLSON: I -- there -- there is a body of
the government of the United States that is entitled and
capable of fixing this. These parade of horribles have
been -- people have been arguing about these for years.
For 30 years, the statute has been interpreted the way
that we are suggesting that it should be under this
title, which this Court earlier this year, in another
case, in the Novo Nordisk case, specifically said, under
this title means pursuant to the provisions of this
title.
This Court said that before in -- in the
Ardestani case. The under this title occurs not only in
section 109(a), but under this title occurs in 602(a)
itself; and then under this section appears twice in
sections 602(a) --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rosenkranz told us
that under this title means different things in other
sections, and he gave a number of examples.
MR. OLSON: Yes, and -- and in each case --
first of all, if the interpretation that my opponent is
arguing for was the law, that -- those are the words
that are in 602(b) and 602(a)(2). So Congress could
have used those words that our opponents are arguing
for, and did use those words, one of which was written
on the same time in the same -- passed in the same time,
in 1976, that 602(a)(1) was.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Olson, can I just
take you to --
MR. OLSON: With respect to those other --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Please.
MR. OLSON: With respect to those other
provisions, Justice Ginsburg, the -- the government
specifically goes over each one of those, but each one
of those, if you interpret the statute as under this
title as pursuant to this title, each one of those
provisions makes sense in the context in which that term
is used there.
And -- and there is only one real way to
interpret under this title in the provisions in 109(a)
in -- in conjunction with 602(a)(1), and that is the way
the Court decided it in the Quality King case,
specifically looking at this question.
Now the facts were slightly different in the
sense that that was a round trip; this isn't a round
trip.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I take you back to the
words here, "lawfully made under this title," which you
say clearly means what you say it means.
So, I find this language a little bit
perplexing, and I can kind of see it both ways. So what
you say is made under this title, that must mean made in
the United States, and "lawfully," just as this little
word that's -- that modifies that basic phrase, "made
under this title," which means made in the United
States.
But what Mr. Rosenkranz essentially says --
he doesn't say it in these words, but he says, "The
focus of this provision is on 'lawfully made.'" That is
what the focus is on. It's on "lawfully made" as
opposed to "unlawfully made."
Now, when we just say lawfully made, you
know, we need something to measure, well, how do we know
whether it's lawfully made? Well, you look to the rules
in the copyright law.
So if you just -- if you focus more on the
lawfully word, lawfully made, and then under this title
doesn't mean made in the United States, it means
lawfully made under the rules of this title.
MR. OLSON: Lawfully made under this title
is lawfully made under the copyright laws of the United
States. It can't say, 'lawfully made in the United
States,' because then something might --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, lawfully made, under
the rules of the United States, regardless where the
thing was manufactured, is what I'm saying. That's the
way -- it just seems to me as though --
MR. OLSON: It --
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- you are saying made must
be manufactured. But lawfully made is a lawfully made
copy. How do we know if it's lawfully made? We look to
this title.
MR. OLSON: I think under this title means
that it was made pursuant to the provisions of the
copyright law. I can't imagine the difficulties that
would ensue with litigation over whether or not
something made in another country, made under another
country's different laws -- and they vary enormously
throughout the world -- whether that was somehow
compatible with the laws of the United States.
JUSTICE BREYER: But what about litigation
in this respect? I want to bring you back to the
horribles.
MR. OLSON: Because the --
JUSTICE BREYER: The main point is that
horribles haven't occurred. Right?
MR. OLSON: The main -- main --
JUSTICE BREYER: Sometimes horribles don't
occur because no one can believe it.
Now, for example, I believe there is going
to be a storm, but it hasn't started yet.
So I would like to know -- I would like to
know, if you were the lawyer for the Toyota distributor,
and if you were the lawyer for the Metropolitan Museum
of Art, or you are the lawyer for a university library,
and your client comes to you and says, my God, I just
read the Supreme Court opinion. It says that we can't
start selling these old books or -- or lending them or
putting them in our word processor or reselling the
Toyota without the -- without looking -- displaying the
Picasso without the permission of the copyright holder,
who may or may not be Toyota itself.
What, as their lawyer, do you tell them? Do
you tell them, hey, no problem; or, do you tell them,
you might become a law violator; or, do you tell them, I
better litigate this? What do you tell them?
MR. OLSON: Well, each one of those
situations that you posit, Justice Breyer, has a whole
panoply of set of facts.
With respect to the museums, with respect to
the person bringing books into the United States, there
are other defenses, including fair use. There are other
defenses under the copyright law. But -- and one of the
things is that, to a certain extent, if you're going to
use the product created by someone else in a way that's
contemplated by the copyright laws, maybe it's required
that you actually comply with the copyright laws by
going to the owner of the copyright and saying, look,
here's what I propose to do, can I have a license to do
this? It's a nonprofit. It's a museum. And I'm --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you said
there are other defenses, including fair use. In -- in
the catalogue that Justice Breyer recited, are all those
fair uses?
MR. OLSON: No. And some of -- but -- but
they're --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, which ones
are -- I mean, I'm -- it seems unlikely to me that, if
your position is right, that a court would say, it's a
fair use to resell the Toyota, it's a fair use to
display the Picasso.
MR. OLSON: It may be a fair use. It may be
an implied license, for example, with respect to
copyrighted items or trademarked items that appear in a
product that was licensed abroad. The government has
offered another alternative interpretation of the word
"made," as putting it in the flow of commerce. That
might deal with some of these situations.
But the point I guess I am making,
Mr. Chief Justice, is that Congress was clearly
intending to talk about the vast gray market problem.
This provision --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, intending where? I
mean, I -- you spend a lot of time talking about the
legislative history and the purposes behind 602. But
the language that we're supposed to be interpreting is
the language in section 109. And the language in
section 109, as far as I can see, there's really nothing
to support your argument that that language was intended
to address this gray market problem.
Isn't that correct?
MR. OLSON: Well, no. I think that section
109 and 602(a) were adopted in the same statute. They
were put in the draft of the statute at the same time,
in 1964.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you know, section 109 is
just a rewording of a prior provision that you would
clearly lose under, where the prior wording had nothing
to do with where any product was manufactured. And what
you're suggesting is that we should read this change in
wording -- which actually, there's a real theory behind
what the change in wording meant that has nothing to do
with the place of manufacture, that we should read it as
incorporating a place of manufacture requirement,
because there was a separate debate going on in section
602 about that question.
MR. OLSON: But the -- but the two pro --
what I'm -- I guess what I'm trying to explain is that
the two were enacted at the same time. They were out
there and available to the public for 12 years before
they were finally adopted. These parade of horribles
could have been addressed by Congress in a different way
at the time, and the interpretation -- this is a -- 109
is a defense -- is offered as a defense to section -- to
section 602(a)(1).
So what does it mean? What provide -- what
is the defense that's provided? And you then have to
interpret, "made under this" -- "lawfully made under
this title." What does that mean?
And you have done that in the Quality King
case. You explained in the Quality King unanimously
that it makes a difference because you are exhausting --
Congress intended to allow segmentation of the market.
It only makes sense to interpret this way if you allow
segmentation of the market pursuant to these provisions,
because it is exhausting the copyright under the laws of
the United States once you make a sale of a product
produced in the United States subject to the United
States' copyright laws.
You are not exhausting your U.S. copyright
when you make something, or allow something to be made
abroad. You are not exhausting that copyright. You
have not done that yet. So the first sale is not
something that happens abroad that uses up the copyright
laws -- of the protection under the copyright laws of
the United States.
So it seems to me that this does make
perfect sense. And it makes -- there is not going to be
a perfect solution in every case. The Court has dealt
with that frequently with respect to copyright laws.
But if you interpret it as my opponent interprets it,
you are opening the door to commercial enterprises
precisely like this.
It's not necessary in this case to decide
every single permutation of a problem that someone
crosses a border with a product, but this section 602
specifically contemplates products that are acquired
abroad and then brought back into the United States.
Here, we have a commercial enterprise doing exactly what
is contemplated by the people who were talking about
602(a) and section 109 when the two were adopted at the
same time.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Olson, do you have an
answer to the outsourcing problem and the charges that
if you read the statute as you are urging, then you are
inviting the outsourcing of manufacturing jobs?
MR. OLSON: There are several answers to
that. One, that's Congress's concern. And -- and there
is no evidence that that would really actually happen.
And Congress was concerned with creating a segmentation
of the market. But it's entirely speculative as to
whether or not people are going to start manufacturing
books or other items outside the United States.
Congress can address that if that should
become a problem, but it's not something that was
suggested as a part of what was taking place at that
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Olson.
Mr. Stewart.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART,
FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I would like to discuss -- begin by
discussing our Bobbs-Merrill argument, because it's a
part of our brief that's different from both the
parties' submissions, and I do think it's very important
to understanding the practical implications of the
Court's decision.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Stewart, may I ask
you a preliminary question? In Quality King the
government took the position that the Petitioner is
taking here. What led the government to change its
mind? Was it just what has been called "dictum" in
Quality King, or is there another reason why the
government has switched sides?
MR. STEWART: I think there are two related
reasons, and one of them is the dictum, but I'll get to
that second.
I think in both cases, our overriding
objective was to offer a reading of section 109(a) that
would not supersede, or would not effectively negate the
importation prohibition in section 602(a)(1), because
from the Copyright Office's perspective, we agree with
Mr. Olson that the primary reason for the enactment of
602(a)(1) was to facilitate market segmentation. And
the argument we made in Quality King was you can
accomplish that; you can prevent section 109(a) --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you point to
something in the legislative history to support that?
MR. STEWART: I think the best thing I could
point to is a report of the Registrar of Copyrights that
was issued in 1965, in which the Copyright Office
identified as one of the circumstances that would be
covered by the importation ban, the situation in which,
quote, "the copyright owner had authorized the -- the
manufacture of copies in a foreign country for
distribution only in that country."
It didn't use the phrase "market
segmentation," but clearly, the point was the same. You
are authorizing copies to be made abroad for
distribution only in that place, not for redistribution
here.
And so --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So Mr. Stewart, if I
understand your argument, both here and in Quality King
you want the copyright holder to have some control over
importation, but at the same time you don't want the
copyright holder to have control over all downstream
sales.
MR. STEWART: That's correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And that's what your
Bobbs-Merrill argument is designed to do. It's designed
to prevent that.
MR. STEWART: That's correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Coming back to Justice
Ginsburg's question, do you think that truly the way to
do those two things, to give the copyright holder
control over importation, but not over downstream sales,
that our problem really is, do you think in your heart
of hearts that we got it wrong in Quality King?
MR. STEWART: Well, we lost that case 9-0,
and so I am not arguing too vociferously that the Court
should change its opinion. But yes, we think that we
still would adhere to our view that section 109(a)
should not be read as a limitation on section 602(a)(1).
If the Court had gone that path, it could read "lawfully
made under this title" to encompass both foreign-made
and domestic-made copies, without doing damage to the
copyright holder's ability to segment markets.
On the other hand --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you get what you
wanted anyway? That's really the bottom line. We undo
Quality King, except that the price is that people have
to ship their manufacturing abroad.
MR. STEWART: Well, we're not urging the
Court to take that course, but yes, that would have been
one way to accomplish the same objective. And so --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So you are essentially
saying that the appropriate way to read this statute, to
make sense of all of its provisions, is to give the
copyright holder control over the importation, to give
Wiley the ability to go after this importer, Mr.
Kirtsaeng, but to find a way to stop it there?
MR. STEWART: I think that's correct, but I
think our Bobbs-Merrill argument does provide a very
principled way to stop it there without going back on
what the Court said in Quality King. That is,
Bobbs-Merrill was a 1908 case in which the publisher
sold books to retailers on the proviso that they not be
sold at retail for less than a specified amount. One of
the retailers violated that resale restriction and was
sued for copyright infringement.
And this Court in Bobbs-Merrill said --
parsed the statutory language, which at that time gave
the copyright owner the exclusive right to vend copies
of the work.
JUSTICE ALITO: But you're saying
Bobbs-Merrill means something beyond section 109, but
when -- the 1909 Copyright Act said that it was
codifying the holding in Bobbs-Merrill, and the 1976
statute, which is now before us, said it wasn't changing
the meaning of the earlier law. So I don't know how --
Bobbs-Merrill wasn't a constitutional decision, it was a
question of statutory interpretation.
So how does some sliver of Bobbs-Merrill
still survive all of this?
MR. STEWART: Maybe I can put it this way:
If I buy a piratical copy of a book, one that was
illegally made without the consent of the copyright
owner, and all I do is read it and put it on my shelf, I
can't rely on 109(a) because the copy was not lawfully
made under this title. But I still couldn't be held
liable for copyright infringement because there is no
exclusive right to read the book or to own it. I
wouldn't have been infringing any of the copyright
owner's rights.
And so in order to have a valid claim for
copyright infringement, the copyright owner would have
to show both that 109(a) was inapplicable, and that what
the defendant was doing was a violation, an infringement
of one of the exclusive rights.
And Mr. Rosenkranz seems to postulate a
situation in which a cagey manufacturer would locate its
facilities overseas, make the copies there, import them
into the United States, sell them in this country,
subject to conditions on resale.
And if the goods were resold in violation of
those restrictions, the copyright owner would sue for
infringement. And I think the first argument the
defendant would make is that is exactly the conduct that
the Court in Bobbs-Merrill said did not infringe the
exclusive right to vend.
Now -- namely the resale in violation of
restrictions on resale. How can you now say it's now an
infringement of the exclusive right to distribute? And
it would be a particularly difficult argument for the
copyright owner to make because what the House Report
said in 1909, it didn't say exactly that it was
codifying the holding of Bobbs-Merrill; it said that it
was amending the statute in other respects, and it
wanted to make clear that there was no intent to enlarge
the exclusive right to vend.
And so the Plaintiff, in Mr. Rosenkranz's
hypothetical, would in effect be arguing that by
codifying section 109(a), Congress had implicitly
expanded the scope of the implicit -- of the exclusive
right to vend or distribute, even though it said it was
doing the various opposite.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's an awfully
difficult maze for somebody to -- to get through. You
have to start with the difficulty of the language here,
and then you have to proceed and put the Quality King
gloss over it; and, when you finally get to that point,
you say, well, now you've got to read Bobbs-Merrill and
figure out how the common law governs all that.
MR. STEWART: But I think that would be true
under anybody's reading. That is, once a court in a
case determined for whatever reason that section 109(a)
was inapplicable, it didn't provide a safe harbor, the
next step could never be simply to proceed to judgment
and say that there was infringement. The next step
would always have to be to look at what the defendant
had done --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's not that
complicated under the Petitioner's approach. It says
once you've you had a first sale, that's it.
MR. STEWART: The other point I would make
about the Petitioner's approach is that it -- it really
has no grounding in the statutory text. That is, the
Petitioner is arguing that if the publisher in Thailand,
if the manufacturer of the books had shipped them
directly into this country, that person could have been
sued for infringement for the importation and --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the word has
grounding. It is Coke upon Littleton, 1628, where it
says that if a man be possessed of a chattel and give or
sell his whole interest upon a condition, that condition
is no good. And Coke says, and that's how it should be.
And now that's picked up in Bobbs-Merrill;
it's picked up in Dr. Miles. It's been the law.
Now if, in fact, there are two ways of
interpreting the statute, and one is consistent with
that basic principle of commercial law, and the other
produces some of the complexities that you have just
mentioned, isn't it better to go with the common law and
simply reaffirm a principle that's been in the
commercial law almost forever?
MR. STEWART: I -- I give two answers for
that. And the first is that Coke was saying that, in
most circumstances at least, a sale is sufficient in
order to divest the owner of his prior right to control
distribution, but it doesn't say that a sale is
necessary.
And my point is that when Mr. Rosenkranz
says the hypothetical foreign publisher who makes copies
with authorization but ships it into the -- them into
the United States without could be held liable for
infringement, there is nothing in section 109(a) that
would allow a court to draw that distinction; that is,
although 109(a) is sometimes referred to as a
codification of the First Sale Doctrine, it doesn't
require an antecedent first sale.
So as long as the foreign publisher was the
owner of the books at the type -- time they were
manufactured, if those books were lawfully made under
this title, under Petitioner's reading they could be
imported and distributed.
We know also that this was not an oversight,
that Congress didn't intend the provision to be subject
to a sort of implicit first authorized sale requirement,
because the language was intended to cover copies that
were made pursuant to a compulsory license.
JUSTICE ALITO: Which of the following is
worse: All of the horribles that the Petitioner
outlines to the extent they are realistic, or the
frustration of market segmentation, to the extent that
would occur, if Petitioner's position were accepted?
MR. STEWART: Well, if they actually
happened, then I think the -- the horribles would be
worse. But, as I say, we -- we feel that we have
offered a reading of all the statutory provisions
together that would avoid both.
The other couple of things I would say as to
why a first sale by itself --
JUSTICE ALITO: If the -- if that middle
ground is -- were found to be not viable, which of the
two sets of consequences is worse from the government's
perspective, or can you not say?
MR. STEWART: I would say that the
consequence that all foreign-made goods, even if
imported into the United States with the authorization
of the U.S. copyright owner, are subject to continuing
licensing requirements, etc., I would say that would be
worse than the frustration of market segmentation that
would occur under Petitioner's view.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Rosenkranz, you have four minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice.
I just want to step back and take a look at
what the government's doing here. After eloquently
arguing in Quality King in the last two pages of its
brief that our position on the meaning of this language
is right, it's saying our position is wrong. And then,
it's trying to come up with a middle ground that has
absolutely no basis in the statute.
If Bobbs-Merrill provides the content for
the First Sale Doctrine, then what does section 109 do?
And so the government is creating a scenario in which,
in order to save 602 from being superfluous in the way
it is described, although we believe it's not
superfluous at all, it is making 109 superfluous.
Justice Kagan asked a question about
essentially sentence diagramming. Our view is that
'under this title' modifies 'lawfully.' You use the
U.S. metric of U.S. law to figure out whether it's
lawful. The government's and Wiley's position is that
'under this title' modifies both 'made' and 'lawfully.'
And at least the way I learned grammar, you can't use
the same phrase to modify both terms.
I want to correct something that I said to
Justice Ginsburg because I said it backwards. 905 and
906 are examples of the United States Congress in a
copyright context applying national exhaustion, and that
was six years after this statute was passed.
To Justice Breyer's question, the bear is
there. It is very much there. The only reason no one
has ever pursued these legal arguments is that the legal
arguments that are the baseline for all of this have yet
to be accepted by this Court. But I have not heard any
argument for why the vast majority of them will not
necessarily obtain, and they are not in any of the
briefs. To use the Toyota example, there simply is no
other defense. There is none. Fair use doesn't apply
to the vast majority of the scenarios that I've just
described.
Finally, outsourcing: Congress did not want
U.S. jobs to go overseas. Congress in the very same
statute in section 601 was hoarding manufacturing jobs
to the United States; and as the government said on the
last page of its Quality King, "it is highly unlikely
that the same Congress that hoarded jobs in the United
States was prepared to tolerate a situation in which
there was eternal downstream control" that the copyright
owners would be encouraged to seize by sending jobs
overseas.
So unless there are further questions from
the Court -- I saw, I just realized I said the same
thing twice incorrectly to Justice Ginsburg. 905 and
906 are examples of international -- exhaustion.
Unless there are further questions, I thank
the Court and respectfully request that the Court
reverse the judgment below.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:05 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
54:9 50:8 53:10 avoid 51:6 Bobbs-Merrill
allowing 14:17 52:25 awash 10:14 42:13 44:11
12:20 14:21 24:23 approach 48:24 awfully 48:8 45:19,22 46:2
20:25 alternative 49:2 a.m 1:14 3:2 46:7,9,12,14
38:11 38:12 appropriate 47:15,23 48:13
41:9
45:8 America 28:20 approved 10:3 B 1:18 2:6 24:5 body 32:18
13:11 26:2 argue 25:12 8:19 12:22 27:8,16 31:19
Americans argues 22:5 23:16 26:11,18 books 24:13
53:6 amicus 1:22 25:20 32:21 36:8 41:9 29:22 30:14
45:11 amount 9:19 48:3 49:4 52:3 52:1 37:12 41:24
announced 21:2 2:2,5,8,12 3:3 52:23 50:13,14
15:16 28:24 9:18 13:15 15:3,4 25:4 border 41:7
answered 18:15 24:22 29:16 base 29:7 22:20
answers 5:5 43:10 44:4,11 basic 18:8 34:20 bought 27:8
41:25 50:11 arguments 53:4 basis 52:7 13:18,24 14:7
appeals 21:19 artfully 28:15 20:5 26:1,7,17,21
21:17,20 APPEARAN... asked 3:23 24:6 51:23 30:18 36:7,11
41:12 1:15 52:14 believe 18:23 36:14 37:9,24
change 8:18 comes 30:1 conjunction 35:22 46:17,20
26:3,4 44:22 13:4 22:1 consent 46:18 6:18 7:2,10
29:13 14:9,24 commerce 29:15 51:14 9:12,14,22
28:3 charges 41:15 commercial 31:1 51:11 11:21 12:2,10
chattel 49:10 24:9 41:3,10 consistent 3:14 12:11,12,13
29:24 51:20,25 54:5 company 23:21 contemplated 27:4 28:5,11
Chinese 23:5,8 23:22 26:3 37:17 41:11 29:1 31:10,10
compatible 36:6 contemplates 31:13,14,17,20
Circuit 20:24 49:18 continuing 44:16 45:3,15
13:10 class 20:3,7 concern 41:19 contractual 24:11 28:19,19
classic 10:4 concerned 41:21 16:12,16 29:2,20 38:10
classroom 19:25 condition 49:11 control 4:5 21:8 copyrights 30:4
29:9,9 clear 3:21 21:3 49:11 44:5,7,17 43:15
30:15 23:17 47:25 conditions 13:9 45:15 49:25 core 8:11 13:4
31:9 clearly 11:15,18 13:11 47:10 53:20 correct 4:8 7:8
33:4 34:15 38:16 conduct 47:14 conversation 14:11 21:16
34:8 39:9 43:23 Congress 3:20 16:1 17:6 39:2 44:9,13
41:5 client 16:15 5:6 6:10,11,14 copies 8:15 9:6,8 45:18 52:22
45:22 36:22 6:14 13:21 10:6,9 19:12 Costco 9:18
54:7,8 codification 17:21 20:1,15 19:13 20:17 17:10
43:3 codified 5:19 33:14 38:16 26:18 31:21 24:2 37:22
customs 27:3,3 dicta 18:9 24:21 distributors efficient 13:22
cut 23:24 25:20 31:6 10:22,24 16:8 either 13:7 19:8
23:14 D 25:12,13 42:22 divest 49:25 eloquently 52:2
36:3 D 3:1 43:1 divided 16:3 elses 16:15
47:9 damage 45:2 difference 40:8 dividing 10:20 emasculate
damages 16:24 different 33:9 16:2 24:24
DBA 1:3 39:23 42:14 docks 15:5 39:20
dealt 25:6,6 difficult 47:20 8:12 9:20 13:1 encompasses
18:15,19 debate 10:19 difficulties 36:1 17:14 20:16 encouraged
20:22 39:16 difficulty 48:10 22:21 24:18 53:21
24:8,12 decide 21:12 diminish 14:15 28:9,12 50:10 endless 21:8
25:18 29:17 30:21 direct 25:3 52:9 engaged 25:3
31:6,8 41:5 directly 11:7 doing 14:21 31:4 England 6:24
32:24 decided 34:8 13:8 18:25 31:18 41:10 27:8 31:13,19
34:8 deciding 22:19 49:6 45:2 47:4 48:7 English 3:14
38:5 25:22,23 disagree 5:17 52:2 10:4 12:10,11
42:11 decision 25:9 disagreement dollars 29:20 12:13 31:14,16
45:10 42:17 46:12 5:19 domestic 10:6 enlarge 47:25
46:2 defendant 47:4 discuss 42:12 domestic-made enormous 9:19
48:16 47:14 48:21 discussed 17:5 45:2 12:24
53:6,24 defense 24:24,24 discussing 31:5 dominating enormously
28:8 39:25,25 42:13 10:19 36:4
32:11 defenses 29:8 30:2 38:7 downstream enterprise 24:9
defined 8:16,24 disputing 30:3 44:7,17 53:20 enterprises 41:3
3:15 11:11,25 50:8 draft 39:5 entitled 32:19
1:21 distribute 11:11 draw 50:8 essentially 4:4,7
described 7:16 distributed 18:17 34:23 45:12
44:11 29:15 43:21,25 E 1:16 2:1,3,13 European 5:22
diagramming 12:11 18:24 effect 22:6 48:3 15:2,17 17:4
41:10 fact 5:16 13:14 flow 38:13 32:14,16 44:16 52:6
49:15 focus 34:25 35:1 45:14,15 49:10 grounding 49:3
10:2 19:24 37:10 focused 5:13 gives 3:22 11:21 guess 16:9 38:15
36:16 fair 18:7 26:19 focusing 12:16 16:23,24 27:9 39:19
53:9 26:21 37:13,23 12:17 27:19
54:1 53:10 7:24 gloss 48:12 half 9:24 10:23
family 27:22 foreign 11:21,22 20:3,20 26:9 18:2
38:24 18:24 29:23 49:19 53:14 happen 41:20
32:12 favor 21:5 43:20 50:4,12 God 36:22 happened 17:10
47:5,16 figure 48:14 forever 49:21 24:22 28:21 17:21 20:5
48:1,5 52:17 found 17:25 36:16 37:15,19 21:10 26:8
films 10:12,12 frankly 16:15 Goldman 17:6 hash 19:20
5:1 finally 39:22 frequently 41:1 49:12
6:1
53:13 frustration goods 8:2,4,8,11 heard 53:6
52:25 find 13:21 15:8 50:25 51:18 10:16 11:5 heart 44:18
15:9,17 34:16 further 22:22 13:3,4 23:11 hearts 44:19
39:19 first 5:5 9:24 G governed 14:19 help 10:20
17:16,23 19:1 general 1:20 22:5,17 29:12 highly 53:17
19:6 30:11 33:12 geographic 33:24 38:11 15:10 17:3,4
40:19 47:13 10:20 23:16 42:20,21,24 17:23 38:21
29:1 37:2
28:8 42:18 52:23 Grail 21:7 44:5,7,16
five 18:21 26:18 Ginsburg's grants 3:24 holder's 45:3
15:16 22:25 gray 24:11 holding 25:15
6:2,8,19 17:2 18:2 intended 19:8 2:3,13 3:7
8:17
25:11 38:25 40:9 51:22 8:24 9:3,8
11:24 42:15 50:20 judgment 48:19 15:23 16:5
13:13,20 importation intending 38:17 54:4 18:5 19:2
15:5,19 3:23 9:23 38:19 jurisdiction 22:24 25:25
16:2,19 10:16 17:11,13 intent 19:15 23:14 33:19,22 34:13
19:6 21:1 18:4 29:15 47:25 jurisdiction's 35:15,20 38:19
22:8 43:6,18 44:6 interest 49:11 23:6 39:7 44:3,10
44:17 45:15 international Justice 1:21 3:3 44:14 45:12
30:5,7 importer 45:16 interpret 24:23 8:13,22,24 9:3
32:3
27:2,12 40:4,10 41:2 12:5,9 13:6,15
31:3
50:23 18:16 27:1 21:23 22:2 14:12,16,22,23 kind 13:18
inapplicable 25:9 29:13 15:1,8,15,16 16:11 23:2
50:4 including 37:13 32:4 24:2,4,7 25:11 31:24,25 34:8
inconsistent 32:22 26:1,7,17,21 42:23 43:10
interpreting 26:25 27:7,13 44:4,19 45:7
32:14 irresistible 32:7 33:8,19 15:18 16:19
indications Irwin 15:10 35:15,20 36:7 22:1,12 25:19
infiltrating 9:16 38:10,10 41:24 41:14 42:4,10 46:11 50:17
infringement i.e 11:13 44:3,10,14,14 L
27:5 28:3 infringing 46:24 jobs 20:21 41:17 51:25 52:14,23 12:15 14:9,9
21:24 learns 21:6 luggage 30:14 41:22 43:9,22 mischief 3:15
28:9 led 42:21 50:25 51:18 22:9
32:12 legal 53:4,4 M markets 10:21 mischievous
38:22,23 legislative 15:9 magnitude 14:18 16:3,7 8:19
46:3 38:21 43:13 22:12 21:9 45:3 misstates 24:21
50:20 lending 27:12,14 main 36:11,13 matter 1:12 misunderstood
36:24 36:13 21:22 23:1 15:21
8:16 let's 5:21 6:24 53:11 maze 48:9 modifies 22:21
9:10 10:7 18:13 making 5:9 10:3 mean 6:16 12:7 34:20 52:16,19
20:22 liable 46:22 50:6 11:25 12:17 16:23 20:24 modify 52:21
21:4 librarian 17:20 17:24 22:17 23:11 26:2 moment 19:17
23:6 libraries 27:11 31:16,21 38:15 34:18 35:9 21:6,10,24
25:6 29:22 52:13 38:4,20 40:2,5 Monday 1:10
28:11 library 27:1,5 MALCOLM meaning 26:2,8 motivation
36:21 1:20 2:9 42:7 32:15,16,17 15:20,23,24,25
35:6 license 11:7 man 49:10 46:11 52:4 mouse 30:6
37:6,14 37:20 38:9 manner 6:17,21 means 4:10 6:20 moved 20:25
48:14 50:21 22:3 8:15 9:4 25:20 movie 15:3
licensed 11:19 manufacture 33:1,9 34:15 multiples 16:24
38:11 11:5,8 31:15 34:15,21 35:9 museum 36:20
52:18 licenses 26:3 manufactured meant 8:20 museums 29:24
6:11,12 12:2 51:17 35:17,21 39:10 measure 35:4
limitation 22:19 50:14 measured 9:9 N
7:1,1,9 44:24 manufacturer 12:3 N 2:1,1 3:1
10:10 line 17:22 45:6 11:3,16,19 member 24:19 national 4:21
14:4 litigate 37:7 12:9 20:19,25 27:23 5:6,7,15 6:1,3
19:4 litigation 36:2,7 21:6 47:7 49:5 mention 19:18 6:9 52:25
24:14 little 34:16,19 manufacturers mentioned nationally 5:1
34:14,19 Littleton 49:9 14:17 15:4 49:19 nations 5:16
35:1,3,5 loading 15:5 21:11 metric 52:17 nature 23:11
loaf 18:1 manufacturer's Metropolitan necessarily 53:8
locate 47:7 23:23 36:20 necessary 25:18
40:4 logic 18:17 manufactures microchips 5:8 25:21,25 29:17
46:20 long 50:12 11:16 middle 14:7 41:5 50:2
52:16,19 look 30:7 35:5 manufacturing 51:9 52:6 need 16:11
48:21 52:1 21:8,13 31:19 million 29:22 30:18,20 35:4
37:17 34:9 37:1 53:15 28:24 29:19,20 negate 43:5
40:12,15 lose 39:9 market 9:16 mind 42:22 never 19:1 21:4
41:1 loses 4:5 10:6,14,17 minimize 15:2 48:19
37:4 lot 18:3 25:20 24:11 38:17 minute 17:12 23:17
32:18 33:11,19 48:24 49:2 42:16
36:13 37:8 page 2:2 17:22 19:21,22 34:20 preliminary
41:14,18 42:5 pages 17:8 52:3 Picasso 30:1,3 prepared 53:19
opening 22:25 part 18:18 42:2 picture 20:11 19:4
parties 42:15 pirating 25:4 primary 43:8
opposed 31:15 33:17 53:1 places 5:3 principles 5:18
order 30:21 47:1 45:7 play 20:3,6 49:25
outlines 50:24 perfect 16:18 33:22 42:11 pro 39:18
51:5 overseas 20:21 30:2 37:2 48:12 49:1 39:1 41:6,15
53:14,22 permutation pointed 15:1 problems 25:5
24:4,5,7 46:4,19 47:2 37:12 49:6 23:7,12 38:5 product 37:16
26:6 47:12,21 49:25 perspective 43:7 42:20 51:1 38:11 39:10
50:13 51:16 51:12 52:4,5,18 40:13 41:7
owners 3:22 petitioner 1:5,17 possessed 49:10 products 7:18
28:1,4 9:13,22 18:1 2:4,14 3:8 32:6 possession 14:24 9:16 41:8
29:3,5,8 53:21 42:20 49:4 postulate 47:6 prohibition 43:6
30:11,22 ownership 30:3 50:23 51:23 powerful 16:21 propose 30:25
Quality 17:25 12:15,23 13:24 reply 17:8,22 14:12,15,16
40:21 24:12,20,22 28:14 42:23 47:21 27:9,19 28:18
48:18 34:8 40:6,7 53:3 15:11 38:5 46:4,23
17:11,13 52:3 53:17 rebuttal 2:12 requirement rights 3:25 4:14
19:25 question 11:2,25 24:1 51:22 39:15 50:19 18:25 23:3,4,5
34:25 14:17 15:16,21 rebuttals 18:22 requirements 23:5,8,9,10,12
39:8 18:13,14 22:25 rebutting 18:19 51:17 23:13,20,21,24
26:8,11 28:6 receive 29:25 resale 45:25 31:17 46:25
27:10 42:19 44:15 recited 17:9 resell 28:21,25 ROBERTS 3:3
31:11 46:13 52:14 37:24 29:23 38:6 24:2,4 37:22
34:3,6 53:2 recodification reselling 36:25 38:3 42:4 48:8
40:11 questions 22:22 22:16 reserve 23:25 48:23 51:20
51:5 53:23 54:2 recognized reservoir 22:20 54:5
quote 43:19 18:12,23 23:18 27:21 Rosenkranz
49:4 R 3:1 redistribution 38:9 41:1 5:4 6:2,8,19
rack 20:13 43:25 respectfully 7:4,12,15 8:1,4
29:23 read 6:10 36:23 referring 24:21 respects 47:24 9:1,7,11 11:1
19:22 26:14 regional 6:4,9 rest 19:22 23:25 15:14,19,25
34:2 28:22,24 43:4 11:22 45:25 19:5 21:1,18
40:11 48:16 50:15 Registrar 43:15 restrictions 22:8,24 23:15
51:5 related 42:25 47:12,18 24:3 33:8
20:10 realistic 50:24 relatively 25:5 retail 20:13 51:24
39:5 realize 17:17 relief 16:24 45:24 Rosenkranz's
48:11 realized 53:24 rely 46:20 retailers 45:23 48:2
38:24 41:20 16:25 reverse 54:4 ruin 21:9
rented 10:12 right 3:18 8:3 30:24 31:1
ships 50:5 34:9 41:8 39:4,5 41:16
17:13,16 52:9 53:15 silently 21:12 30:9 38:20 32:2
20:16 sections 5:7 33:7 simpler 13:21 split 21:5 statutory 21:23
40:13,19 33:10 simply 6:17 18:8 spot 17:4 22:4 46:3,13
49:24 see 10:11 17:21 31:15 48:19 stand 21:23 49:3 51:5
30:7 34:17 49:20 53:9 standard 10:7 stealing 15:4
52:9 38:24 single 41:6 standards 4:12 step 48:19,20
21:9 segment 14:18 47:7 53:19 12:4 Stewart 1:20 2:9
15:6 45:3 situations 7:21 stark 3:11 42:6,7,10,18
31:7 sell 6:6 20:19 sliver 46:14 5:10 6:12,14 10:14,16
37:19 23:8,13,22 small 25:5 6:18 7:10,19 stop 45:17,20
46:6 29:23 47:9 sold 4:4,14,24 7:22 8:2,5,8,9 storm 36:17
52:5 49:11 28:18 45:23,24 8:11 9:14 10:1 strongest 15:10
19:3 31:23 36:24 32:11 19:1,16 20:4 subject 24:17
21:7 sells 23:20 26:9 solution 40:25 20:10,12 24:14 40:14 47:10
27:3,6 send 19:15 somebody 14:1 26:5,11 28:18 50:18 51:16
34:23,24 20:20 14:3 23:8 48:9 30:1 32:19 submissions
48:24 sending 21:13 son 26:18 34:19,22 35:9 42:15
50:4 53:21 Sons 1:7 3:5 35:13,14,16 submitted 17:10
7:7,14,24 25:18 31:1 sorry 26:25 40:13,14,15,22 subordinate
21:14 32:17 34:3,11 sort 30:14 50:19 41:9,24 42:8 17:24
sentence 52:15 11:1,15,18 51:15 52:24 sued 46:1 49:7
sets 51:11 30:19 31:12,23 8:20 9:4,4 32:23 39:11
shelf 46:19 sound 28:19 22:16 25:7 29:19
24:10,24 ship 45:8 specifically 19:3 28:6,10 29:14 superfluous
52:11,13 THEODORE 13:1,3 14:10 ultimate 18:11 43:22 52:16,20
1:18 2:6 24:5 19:4,15 28:13 unanimously 53:9,10
39:12 34:2,2,6,14,18 19:19 uttered 16:2
42:9 15:7 17:21 35:11,23,24 understand 8:16,24 9:9,16
9:22 15:4 16:6 told 4:19 33:8 5:25 42:16 14:20 20:19,20
44:16 51:7 Toyota 28:17 undo 45:6 31:12,16,17
35:24 39:3 30:14 United 1:1,13,21 V
43:3 trademark 11:8 2:10 4:23,24 v 1:6 3:4
22:24 51:3 transferred 5:24 12:20 14:19 vary 36:4
32:12 thinking 19:10 transformed 19:1,16 20:4 vast 38:17 53:7
34:13 23:18 5:23 20:10,12 24:14 53:11
52:1 third 7:16 10:18 trip 34:11,12 26:5,11 28:18 vend 46:4 47:16
18:21 25:8 true 5:5 48:15 34:19,21 35:9 viability 25:2
30:15,16 17:19 trumping 18:18 36:6 37:12 view 9:4 18:8
38:20 three 9:22 21:19 truth 5:14 40:13,14,14,22 44:23 51:19
25:1 29:22 try 32:16 41:9,24 42:8 52:15
25:20 30:9 twice 21:4 33:6 unlawful 8:20 vociferously
6:12,13,17,20 52:3 10:7 19:21 26:10 28:23
51:20,24 11:12 12:7,17 33:16 37:13,16 52:1,22 53:13
12:18,19,20,23 U 37:23 38:6,6,8 wanted 9:22
15:7 25:20 34:20 38:23,24 39:4 5
20:2 35:8 36:25 39:7,24 41:12 51 2:14
47:25 38:12 49:8 46:7 52:9,13
22:19 39:13 28:12 33:5 6 5:7 24:16
34:14,24 47:3 48:4,17 15:25 16:5
25:12 12:23 13:3 109(c) 20:8 22:12 38:21
46:10,12 17:20 22:11,14 11 17:8 39:17 41:7
13:10,22 works 10:4,5,8 11-697 1:5 602(a) 24:16,23
21:15 12:15 24:11 11:05 1:14 3:2 24:25 25:1
34:5,7 world 6:7 11:7 110 19:25 26:1,4 33:5,7
37:16 23:4 36:5 12 17:8 39:21 39:4 41:12
40:10 worried 14:1,3 12:05 54:8 602(a)(1) 24:10
45:11,13 worse 50:23 125 5:16 24:13 28:7
46:16 51:4,11,18 13 17:22 33:18 34:7
worth 29:20 147 24:25 40:1 43:6,9
write 30:24 1628 49:9 602(a)(2) 33:14
written 33:16 1909 46:8 47:22 65-year-old 3:18
23:19,19 13:25 16:20 23:16 905 5:7 52:23
26:13,13 32:9 33:18 53:25
38:22 X 46:9 906 5:7 52:24
x 1:2,8 1994 5:16 54:1
21:7 Y 2
years 5:7 15:12 2008 13:17,23
19:25 53:1 24 2:7
21:22 York 1:16,16 29 1:10
1
19:11 3 2:4
21:5,22
19:13 30 32:22
9:20 14:24
16:1
18:16 400-year 3:18
22:10,13 42 2:10
16:2
