IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ADRIAN MONCRIEFFE, :
Petitioner : No. 11-702
v. :
ERIC H. HOLDER, JR., ATTORNEY :
GENERAL :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, October 10, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Petitioner.
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 31
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 61
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 11-702, Moncrieffe v. Holder.
Mr. Goldstein.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, thank you
very much. May it please the Court:
Today's undercard is an immigration case.
Adrian Moncrieffe was convicted of possession with
intent to distribute marijuana, under Georgia law, the
question in the case is whether he was thereby convicted
of a controlled substances offense, which is a
deportable offense, but also an aggravated felony of
illicit trafficking in drugs, which would mean that the
Attorney General has no discretion to cancel his
removal.
Now, everyone agrees that, under the Georgia
statute, there is going to be some conduct that would be
a Federal felony, but it's also undisputed that the
Georgia statute regularly involves prosecutions that
would be Federal misdemeanors. So --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. You use that
word, "regularly." Do you have statistics on that?
Were they provided in the briefs?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: They were not. We do not --
we attempted very hard to collect them. This is the
information I can give you about Federal and State
prosecutions of marijuana cases in the United States.
In the State system, the most recent
available data -- it was published by the Department of
Justice in 2006, but we have no reason to believe that
it's changed materially -- in 2006, there were roughly
750,000 prosecutions in the States for marijuana
offenses.
By contrast, in the Federal system, we have
data from 2010. And we have two different kinds of data
here that's a little bit more granular, and that is, for
prosecutions under 841(b)(1), which is the trafficking
provision, there were 6,200 cases.
For prosecutions under 841(b)(4) -- which is
the provision we say you ought to look at here -- and
844 -- which is the possession provision -- combined,
there were only 93 prosecutions in 2010.
And what we think that illustrates is that
there is a massive amount of activity in the States
doing things that show that this -- and this case is
perfectly commonplace, we think. It's consistent with
the other cases that we've seen published by the BIA.
Adrian Moncrieffe possessed --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's -- it's a massive
amount of conduct that -- that the statute contemplates?
The statutory scheme -- I just didn't hear. I just
didn't hear.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah. I apologize. Yes,
Justice Kennedy, that's right.
The Georgia statute, which just refers to
possession with intent to distribute, contemplates both
social sharing of marijuana -- this case, for example,
1.3 grams of marijuana, which is less than --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When you -- now, Mr.
Goldstein, when you say, "this case," is there any proof
in the record that there was a small amount and no -- no
remuneration?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg,
although this is -- we believe the case is proceeding
under the categorical approach, the answer to your
question is yes.
So let me take you to two places. One is
going to be at the back of the blue brief, where we have
the chemist's report, so page 19. This is from the --
the record in the immigration proceedings.
And on page 19 of the appendix to our blue
brief -- we just agreed because there was so little
record material, that we wouldn't have a joint appendix
in the case. We just published it at the end of our
brief -- it says, "Material weight less than 1 ounce.
Approximate weight is 1.3 grams."
And for those of us who've been fortunate
enough not to experience the drug laws a lot, that's
less than half the weight of this penny. So it's -- I
think everybody agrees, a small amount.
Now, on the question of no remuneration,
what I have to offer you is the Georgia statute --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I don't
understand.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Material weight says less
than 1 ounce --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- parentheses,
"Approximate weight is 1" -- 1 -- oh, I see, 1.3 grams.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah. 1.3 grams. 1.3.
That's -- that's very, very, very, very little.
So then, on the question of remuneration --
and I should just step back and explain, the reason
we're talking about this is that the Federal misdemeanor
provision, 841(b)(4), says that it's not a felony, and
thus, it wouldn't be an aggravated felony, if it's a
small amount and no remuneration. And Justice Ginsburg
asked about the -- what's in the record about that.
Now, there isn't record evidence about no
remuneration, but there is one significant fact. And to
know that fact, you have to look at the Georgia statute,
which is also at the end of our brief. It's on page 9
of our appendix.
This is the statute he was prosecuted under.
It's the second provision, Section 16-13-30(j)(1). And
I'll just read it. "It is unlawful for any person to
possess, have under his control, manufacture, deliver,
distribute, dispense, administer, purchase, sell" --
sell -- "or possess with intent to distribute
marijuana."
And he was not charged with and he was not
convicted of selling. And so we think that should
negative any indication -- any implication that he might
have gotten remuneration for this.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You -- we are discussing
the categorical approach, but let's assume he had pled
guilty. And in his allocution, he had admitted to not a
smaller amount or to remuneration. Would -- would an
immigration judge, under the argument you're making
today, have to ignore that allocution? Or would he be
able to apply the modified approach and find this
gentleman an aggravated felon?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Under our rule, the plea
colloquy is irrelevant, but we would win under a rule in
which it was relevant.
So, to start with the former, we say that
the categorical rule applies. There's no -- the only
reason that you would look at the modified categorical
approach here is to know that it was a possession with
intent to distribute conviction, rather than a sale
conviction, but that evidence would still come in. It
would be highly relevant. It's the basis that this
Court explained in Carachuri-Rosendo, that the
immigration judge would deny cancellation of removal.
Right?
That factor would still be highly relevant.
The Attorney General would exercise his discretion in
such a case. Now --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the issue with
this case. None of these immigrants are being let out
automatically. They are still felons subject to
removal. The only issue is whether --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Oh, this -- you said still
felons. We --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well -- they're --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: But that's exactly right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- they're still subject
to removal --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- either way.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: So -- you know, lawyers
often try and avoid the strength of the other side's
case. And so let me just confront what I think is a big
argument of theirs.
They say our position is underinclusive
because the Georgia statute does include conduct that
would be a felony. You just gave an example of it.
But our point is that our underinclusivity
is a problem, but it's not a big problem, it's not as
big as their problem, because, as this Court explained
in Carachuri-Rosendo, the offense still is removable,
and the Attorney General will just deny cancellation of
removal.
Now, the reason they have a much bigger
practical problem is that their rule is overinclusive.
It treats, as felonies, some convictions that should be
misdemeanors.
JUSTICE BREYER: I -- I see that. There's
something I really don't understand in these cases
because the other cases, our precedent's been around a
long time, so I would have guessed that, under that
precedent in these other statutes, the obvious thing to
do -- the obvious puzzle here is not the Federal
statute, it's the State statute, what is this thing he
was convicted of about?
So you'd pick up the phone, and you'd phone,
at random, four U.S. attorneys -- not U.S. attorneys,
but four State attorneys --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- who work with the
statute in Georgia, and say, now, look, the indictment
here says possession with intent to distribute, and I
can show from the documents that it's a tiny amount.
Now, is it your policy, if he was selling it, to charge
under the sell? Is it your policy if he's not selling
it to charge under intent to distribute? Is it totally
random whether you say sell or intent to distribute?
What's your policy? Okay?
Then we get some answers. Then we'd have an
idea whether what you're saying is right. Now, you
could do that, but they could do it, too. Anyone could
do it. And then we'd have some actual facts about
whether this charge -- really, it corresponds to the
misdemeanor or the felony in the Federal statute.
So why -- I'm not -- I mean, that isn't a
brain -- that isn't -- doesn't require -- it's not
rocket science, okay? So why has no one done it?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Because I don't think
anybody would believe me if I went to an immigration
judge and I said, judge, I promise, I promise that the
fact that this isn't a possession with intent to
distribute case means that there are never cases in --
JUSTICE BREYER: You don't have to say,
"never." The question is what kind of a statute is this
State statute?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right. We -- I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: And the kind of statute
that it is, is a statute that is used to prosecute
people --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- with small amounts when
they don't sell.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: If your version of what
that felon intends to distribute --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: The distinction there is
really picked up by the district attorneys.
And if it's not, then they may be right,
because -- because then intent to distribute may well
often include, as it does under Federal law, people who
sell stuff.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We have not read this
Court's cases to suggest that we call the State
attorneys. We have read the Court's cases to engage in
ordinary statutory construction, and sell means sell --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Okay. You didn't.
In any words, nobody did it.
So my other question --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- which is the only other
one I really have, aside from making that suggestion.
But here, what happened to this person?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: He was -- was he sentenced
under 16-13-2(a)? That is, was he sentenced to
probation? Which would be evidence in your favor, I
think.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: But was he, or wasn't he?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If he was, what
it says in this provision is that the Court may without
entering a judgment of guilt. So there was no judgment
of guilt.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And it says, if he
completes it, he then is discharged without court
adjudication of guilt.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and shall not be
deemed a conviction, it says for purposes of this code.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why are we saying he
was convicted of anything?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. Because the
government's position is -- and the Eleventh Circuit has
agreed with it -- and just to -- just to make sure
everyone is on the same page, and that is, the Federal
statute is triggered by a conviction.
Justice Breyer has just made the point that,
as a matter of State law, he was not even convicted
because he got first offender treatment here, which is a
point in our favor. It does show that it was a small
and non-serious offense.
The reason is that there is a Federal
definition of convicted that's independent of the State
definition of convicted.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that question's
not before us today.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's exactly right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Well, isn't
the reason we don't look at the particular facts and
particular case and don't depose four district
attorneys, is that the Court has adopted a categorical
approach precisely to avoid that type of inquiry in --
whatever it is, 750,000 cases?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. That's correct. And
it's an even stronger point in our favor because worse
than interviewing four district attorneys is having a
fact-bound inquiry into every one of these immigration
cases. Remember --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, I'm sorry.
We don't need that because we've adopted a categorical
approach.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: 841(b)(1)(D) lists
the elements and conviction in -- Georgia, right?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Conviction in
Georgia under their provision satisfies -- has each of
those elements. And under our categorical approach,
that's the end of the inquiry.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is one way of looking
at it. We disagree, for reasons I'll explain. I will
note in our favor that the Attorney General doesn't even
defend that position anymore.
Remember, that they do not argue that you
can just look at the conviction. They want to have the
fact-bound inquiry into every one of these cases. And
the reason is that, if you apply the categorical
approach to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They want to do that
at the tail end, right?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, they want to do it in --
in every single case at the beginning.
So I can just make clear everybody's
position. There really --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Again, I didn't hear.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sorry.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: They want to do it in
every --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: In every case at the
beginning. So I'll --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: At the -- at the beginning
of the State prosecution?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, in the middle -- at the
beginning of the immigration proceedings.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: So let me --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Before you get on --
I didn't understand that to be their position at all. I
mean, I suppose we -- I certainly will ask them because
they're probably better able to articulate their
position, but --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. So let me explain.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: So our position is it is a
controlled substances offense, and you take account of
the seriousness of the offense in cancellation. Their
position is that it is presumptively, but only
presumptively, an aggravated felony. And in every
single immigration proceeding, when you have a case like
this, the noncitizen can come forward with fact-found
evidence, not limited to the record of conviction --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Goldstein, it's
because they are trying to mirror the Federal statute,
which makes the small amount and no remuneration, makes
that like an affirmative defense. The burden is on the
defendant to show those two things, to get out from
under the main statute.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what the Government is
suggesting is as close to the Federal statute as you can
get.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, let me just say first,
I do want to make -- just want to focus on what the
parties' positions are. And they do have this
fact-found inquiry in every one, so I do want to turn to
what I think is probably their second best argument. I
was talking about the underinclusiveness as the first
one.
Their second one is they want to draw an
analogy between this and what would happen in a criminal
case. So they say, take the conviction and imagine that
the conviction is all the facts that you had in a
Federal criminal prosecution, and then you would have a
burden on the defendant to -- to prove that he was
subject to the misdemeanor.
We have several points about that. The
first is this is not a Federal criminal prosecution.
The Federal statute involved is the Immigration and
Naturalization Act, and it tells you that you are
supposed to look at the conviction itself and determine
whether it corresponds to a Federal felony.
This further proceeding doesn't exist, and
it's exactly the argument that was rejected in
Carachuri-Rosendo. And let me talk about why --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said Carachuri. That
case involved, in -- in order to hold for the
government, you would have to go outside the record of
the State conviction. You'd have to add something that
wasn't in the State conviction.
And it's the same thing here. To get to
where you want to go, you have to add something that
isn't in the State conviction.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, we disagree. What the
Court said in -- I agree with the beginning of how you
characterize the Carachuri case. What the Court said is
we don't go beyond the -- the conviction itself.
We -- And it's true that, in that case, the
government wanted to go beyond the record to go up. But
here, what they're saying is that you should go beyond
the record to figure out if you should go down. And
what the Court said is, no, you look at the conviction
itself.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what is the
conviction?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What does the conviction
mean? You say the categorical approach.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is -- is it the categorical
statute under which you have been convicted or, as you
seem to be saying, the indictment?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It is what you are convicted
of. So here, he was convicted of possession with intent
to distribute. The other side's argument is, well, if I
had just possession with intent to distribute, that
would be a Federal felony. So we acknowledge the
strength of that point. But our --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is he convicted of that?
Or is he convicted of violating Georgia Code 16-13,
whatever it is?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: As I was -- I mentioned very
briefly to Justice Sotomayor, when you have a divisible
statute like this, that includes possession with intent
to distribute, sell, possess, all of those things, you
use the modified categorical approach to figure out
which one applies.
And so we know he was convicted of
possession with intent to distribute, and that's common
ground between the parties. It's not the whole statute.
It's just the --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Goldstein,
assuming he was convicted of that, as you suggest, you
have an underinclusiveness problem. The Government has
an overinclusiveness problem.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: If you assume that this
statute covers and is regularly used to cover both sets
of people, both people with these very minor offenses
and people with much more major offenses --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- the at least apparent
attractiveness of the government's position is that
they've tried to cure their overinclusiveness problem.
And they have done it by sticking on -- and -- you know,
one can ask where this comes from in the statute --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I hope we will.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- but they have done it by
sticking on something that attempts to address their
overinclusiveness problem, so that people who are really
misdemeanants get classified as misdemeanants, and
people who are really aggravated felons get classified
that way.
And you have no similar cure for your
underinclusiveness problem. So why shouldn't we go with
their problem, which at least attempts to solve this
problem?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, two reasons. First,
they don't have a real solution; and, second, Congress
solved our problem.
And this is what Carachuri-Rosendo says, and
that is when you have an underinclusiveness problem just
like ours, the statute fixes it because the statute
treats the conviction as a controlled substances
offense. The statute provides the backstop. You don't
have to make one up, which, I -- I suggest to you, is
the difficulty with their position.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't follow --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- your answer because I
think you have to concede that, under your view, a lot
of people who are convicted under the Georgia statute
who had a significant quantity, which they intended to
distribute --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- for remuneration --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- many of those people
would -- under your view of the statute, many of those
people would -- would not have committed an aggravated
felony.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I agree with --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you have that --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is our problem. I
agree with that problem.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- a large
underinclusiveness problem, which you haven't solved.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. That's the part we
disagree with, Justice Ginsburg. Maybe I can just read
to you what this Court said about this exact issue in
Carachuri-Rosendo.
It said that, when you have a very -- this
very underinclusiveness problem, it is solved by the
statute because the attorney -- all that happens under
our rule -- it's still a deportable offense, and the
Attorney General denies cancellation of removal.
So if could just read, very briefly -- and
this is from the Supreme Court Reporter, at page 2589.
"We note that whether a noncitizen has committed an
aggravated felony is relevant, inter alia, to the type
of relief he may obtain from a removal order, but not to
whether he is, in fact, removable.
"In other words, to the extent that our
rejection of the government's broad understanding of the
scope of aggravated felony may have any practical effect
on policing our Nation's borders, it is a limited one.
Carachuri-Rosendo and others in his position may now
seek cancellation of removal and thereby avoid the harsh
consequence of mandatory removal, but he will not avoid
the fact that his conviction makes him" --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But all that follows
from, in Carachuri, the government wanted to go outside
the record.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, Justice Ginsburg, it
does not. I promise you it does not.
The upshot of our position is that
Mr. Moncrieffe has committed a controlled substances
offense, and anyone else in his position has committed
one. And if there is a serious drug amount, the
Attorney General will deny him cancellation of removal.
I have --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think that the
Attorney General could just issue some kind of directive
telling all administrative law judges and officials to
deny cancellation of removal to anybody who commits
these kinds of offenses?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We -- it's an interesting
question that I have puzzled about at length. I think
the answer is no for a very particular reason, however,
and that is the Attorney General has no such categorical
rules.
We think it's a point in our favor that the
Attorney General, in the application starting with
212(c) before the 1996 Act, which is discussed in St. --
this Court's decision in St. Cyr, through the present
has instead applied a holistic look at all of the
circumstances.
What he certainly can do is direct the
immigration judges to place special weight -- and this
was the rule before 1996, by the way. If you had a
serious offense, you had to show special equities that
would justify your not being removed from the country.
And so we think that's the most likely outcome.
A per se categorical rule would be very
unlike what we understand the Attorney General to do in
any other circumstance.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would it -- would it be
permissible -- I had the same question. Would it be
permissible --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or would you be back up
here saying that this violates the statute?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, we think we would win,
so I wouldn't be back for this client. But I think
there would be a substantial argument that it would be
arbitrary and capricious because it would be so unlike
anything the Attorney General does in other
circumstances.
But they would have --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Could
you remind me what the "it" is that you're talking
about?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's an order from
the Attorney General --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- to the
immigration judges --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- to?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: To treat all of these cases
as barring cancellation of removal. To get us on the
back end, as it were, and that is --
JUSTICE KAGAN: To do the exact same
thing --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. To get --
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- but through --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- an Attorney General
directive.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: And I think our argument
that it's arbitrary would be supported by the fact that
this Court would have ruled that he couldn't do the
identical thing on the front end. But it's an open
question, and it's not presented here.
I had said that there were two flaws in
the -- sort of their characterization of the over and
underinclusiveness problem. The second one is they
don't have a real solution. This is a big problem.
Under these State convictions in which the
amount of drugs and whether there was remuneration are
irrelevant, it's going to be extremely difficult for
uncounseled noncitizens who are in jail, who don't have
access to tools of communication, to prove to an
immigration judge this fact-bound inquiry, which they
are inserting into every single case, that their offense
actually corresponds to a misdemeanor.
So while you say that they have provided the
solution, I don't know where it comes from in the
statute, but we think it is not a practical solution.
And that problem is even worse in the many contexts that
are not just straight removal.
We said in our opening brief, and the
government's response ignores, that there are many cases
in which immigration officials have to make these
decisions about whether it's an aggravated felony much
more on the fly, without the opportunity to call
everybody in and --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you have any
statistics -- if you take the whole universe of
convictions under the Georgia statute, what percentage
of them are for these minor offenses and what are for
the major? Do we have any handle on that at all?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We don't. We tried. I'm
sorry. We were unable to do it. The Department of
Justice has better relationships with prosecutors, and
so maybe it -- it will have that information for you.
But, I can say -- it's possible.
But I can say that the -- it is absolutely
commonplace, from looking at the case law, for the
States to tackle this small social sharing of a couple
of marijuana cigarettes. This is -- that's the
distinction between 93 prosecutions under -- or
convictions under (b)(4) and possession in the -- in the
Federal system and 750,000 in the States. Federal
prosecutors leave these to the States.
Which brings me back to my other answer to
Justice Ginsburg's pointing out the government's
argument about a parallel between this and a Federal
criminal prosecution.
And the reason they want to do that, Justice
Ginsburg, is that in a Federal -- actual Federal
criminal prosecution, the burden of proof never matters,
including because Federal prosecutors almost never bring
these cases.
So here's what we tried to do: This
statute, (b)(4), was enacted in 1970, some 42 years ago.
We tried to identify one case in 42 years in which the
burden of proof in the Federal case made any difference
at all, and we were unable to. And I would be really
interested to know if my friend is able to identify one
case in 42 years, which it actually made a difference.
And the reason is, in an actual Federal
prosecution, the FBI agent would come in and say, here
are the drugs, and they were trying to sell it to an
undercover officer. It's never the case that it
actually -- the defendant is in a position of trying to
prove that it was a misdemeanor.
But what they are trying to do is to take
that rule, which is derived from Apprendi, that there is
a burden of proof so that the government doesn't have to
indict that it wasn't a (b)(4) offense, and take the
silence of the State record, where these facts are
completely irrelevant, the quantity and remuneration,
and transpose them into the Federal system and take
great advantage of the fact that the record is silent.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Goldstein, there are
at least 93 cases, all right? So --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And I don't know and I'm
not going to ask you to prove to me how the burden of
proof was met or not met in those. But let me give you
a different hypothetical.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume Georgia has
the Federal statute, but in -- differently than the
Federal statute, it has a sale-distribution provision,
and it has a small amount, no remuneration statute.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What would happen in
those States?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: There are about 15 of those
States, and in those States, if you weren't convicted
under the small one, then you would infer it wasn't a
small amount and no remuneration, and the person would
have committed an aggravated felony.
Our issue arises only when you have a
situation in which the State is prosecuting people under
the statute that would be a Federal misdemeanor. If the
State --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Go
ahead.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No. If the State has a
different system, as a material number of States do, in
which they track the Federal system, and they have a
small provision or a remuneration provision -- which
another nine States have a remuneration provision -- in
those situations, if you have a conviction that isn't
under that social sharing provision, it's an aggravated
felony.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your use of the
statistics, I think, assumes that Georgia and other
States are prosecuting every case that comes before them
because that's how you get -- you know, of these 750,000
nationwide, so much more than must involve tiny amounts.
But, of course, perhaps they don't prosecute
the cases involving tiny amounts, so that most of those
cases, or some percentage of them, may in fact also
involve the serious type of conduct addressed by the
Federal statute.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, I have one really good
example of a prosecution for a small amount. It's this
case.
And we don't deny that there are --
Mr. Chief Justice, please do not misunderstand me to be
arguing that every Georgia conviction or that 80 or
90 percent of them are the small ones. What I'm trying
to tell you is that a lot of them are just like this
one, and I think the data bears that out.
And the question before you is, under a
categorical approach, is it fair to presume that they're
all felonies? Is it fair to presume that what Congress
recognized here is that there would be a correspondence
between a conviction under this statute and the Federal
aggravated felony of illicit trafficking in drugs, to
strip the Attorney General of the United States of any
opportunity whatsoever to consider the circumstances of
the case?
We think that is not the best reading of the
statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Shah.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PRATIK A. SHAH
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. SHAH: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
Petitioner's proposed rule would confer a
free pass from aggravated felony treatment to criminal
aliens convicted under a majority of State laws that
require neither remuneration nor more than a small
amount.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the free pass?
The free pass is mandatory as opposed to discretionary
deportation, correct? So the free pass is that --
MR. SHAH: The free pass is that you would
never have an aggravated felony for this conviction
under any State that did not make an element of the
State offense to disprove -- no remuneration or more
than a small amount.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But those convicted
individuals would still be subject to deportation.
MR. SHAH: Yes, Your Honor, they would still
be subject --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And nothing would stop
the INS judge from considering the amount of drugs,
correct, that the individual actually was involved in,
and that could be introduced through hearsay -- through
almost any document, correct?
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, you're talking about
the discretionary cancellation of removal proceeding?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes.
MR. SHAH: It's true, Your Honor, that could
come in there. But Congress specifically enacted this
aggravated felony provision to take away that discretion
from the Attorney General. The motivating factor
behind --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, do you -- do you
suggest that the immigration judges don't know that and
that they wouldn't weigh that desire heavily in a case
in which a -- the convicted individual is proven to have
sold the larger amount? You still think they are going
to cancel?
MR. SHAH: What -- Your Honor, what Congress
said when it passed this very provision was that
immigration judges were granting too much discretionary
relief to this very class of criminal aliens, and that
is why it implemented this aggravated felony.
Now, Petitioner says it's not going to have
a big deal on immigration -- big impact on immigration
policy for the reason that you suggest, the Attorney
General can do it at the back end. But that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, will you pause
right there. I don't -- you just made the argument that
your position on Castro-Rodriguez is wrong. You say
Congress took away the Attorney General's discretion.
Then you come back and say, well, we're going to
exercise that discretion under -- under
Castro-Rodriguez, and this Petitioner in particular can
take advantage of it.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, it's not an
exercise of discretion under Castro-Rodriguez. We, at
the tail end, have an inquiry that, I think, mirrors the
CSA scheme.
Remember that this aggravated felony
provision in the INA incorporates by reference the CSA
scheme. What the CSA scheme provides is, as a default
matter, any conviction for possession with intent to
distribute marijuana will be a felony. But the CSA
scheme also provides a narrow mitigating exception for
those who distribute just a small amount socially.
What our scheme does is that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that -- is the
authority for that Castro-Rodriguez?
MR. SHAH: I'm sorry?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is the authority for
that the decision in Castro-Rodriguez?
MR. SHAH: To -- to have that secondary
proceeding?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. SHAH: Well, I think it comes from the
statute, the INA, which incorporates the CSA scheme.
Because many of the State provisions don't offer that
same affirmative mitigating exception that the Federal
scheme does, what Castro-Rodriguez does is it looks to
the INA, which incorporates the CSA, and then provides a
similar mechanism in immigration court.
But it's not an unprecedented inquiry. The
Board has been doing similar inquiries for at least a
quarter of a century.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Shah, the Board
may have been doing these inquiries, but I just don't
understand the statutory argument because the way the
statute -- the way your own statutory argument runs is
that if the conviction -- the State conviction, was a
conviction for possession with intent to distribute,
then those are the elements of a Federal -- of a Federal
felony.
And so the person -- and an aggravated
felony. So you say, under the elements approach, this
person has committed an aggravated felony. And the
statutory directive is that, when a person has committed
an aggravated, felony, he is deportable, and there is no
exercise of discretion that can come into play.
And so your whole back-end process, which
says, oh, well, maybe not, maybe he's not automatically
deportable, it doesn't come from the statute, and it
seems to run into the statutory language, which says an
aggravated felon must be deported, the end.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I agree. The
government could have taken the hard-line approach that
it's game over under the categorical inquiry because the
elements --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that's what the
statute says, and that's what your own statutory
analysis says.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I don't think it's
inconsistent with the statutory scheme. In fact, I
think it's consistent.
And here's one way to think about it:
This -- this particular aggravated felony is a little
bit complicated because it incorporates by reference, in
two different levels, the CSA. Congress -- let's assume
Congress rewrote the aggravated felony definition to
eliminate the incorporation by reference.
I think what the equivalent -- the
functionally identical formulation would be -- the
definition of the aggravated felony is, "any
distribution of a controlled substance, unless the
defendant shows that it involved a small amount of
marijuana for no remuneration."
That would incorporate both the presumptive
felony provision, any distribution of controlled
substance -- you have the same two elements -- and then
it would add in the proviso that it's in the CSA
mitigating exception. Functionally identical.
Aggravated felony is, "any distribution of a
controlled substance, unless the defendant shows that it
was a small quantity for remuneration."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is --
MR. SHAH: What our inquiry does is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead. I'm
sorry.
MR. SHAH: Sorry. What our inquiry does is
allow the board to get to that second part of the
definition, the "unless" clause, and that mirrors
exactly other aggravated felony provisions in the INA.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you've answered
Justice Kagan's question by -- she said, doesn't your
own interpretation of this statute require the opposite
result and -- or the -- the harsh result?
And you say, well, suppose Congress wrote a
statute this way. But that wasn't her question. The
question is --
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I'm not positing --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You -- you said that
Congress could write a new statute. Of course, Congress
could write a new statute, but what about this one?
MR. SHAH: I'm not positing a new statute.
I was simply taking out the incorporation by reference,
so we could look at it in a different way. I think it's
functionally identical to the provision at issue here.
And I think it's --
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, I'll just read you,
Mr. Shah, this sentence from your brief -- and I could
read you a thousand of these in your brief. "Because
Petitioner's Georgia conviction necessarily established
that he knowingly possessed marijuana with the specific
intent to distribute it, that conviction constitutes an
aggravated felony."
Well, if that conviction constitutes an
aggravated felony, he has to be deported, and there is
no exercise of discretion that this statute allows.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I -- I would
say that it presumptively creates the aggravated felony,
and it's because of that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, now, you've just put
in words into your brief.
MR. SHAH: Well, well --
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- and -- and really, truly,
you say this 10 or 15 times.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, the heading to
the brief says, "presumptively," and so I didn't use
that word every time, but I think the point is that it
would be the -- the aggravated felony has that unless
clause.
And if you look at other aggravated felony
provisions in the INA, such as the one reproduced on the
top of page 34 of the government's brief, it defines an
aggravated felony as certain document fraud crimes, and
then it has a clause that says, "unless" -- "unless the
alien has affirmatively shown that the alien committed
the offense for the purpose of assisting, abetting or,
abating only the alien's spouse, child, or parent to
violate a provision of the INA."
So you could say ball game over, once you
have shown the document fraud crime under the
categorical approach. But the INA specifically has a
provision that says, unless the alien can show that he
committed the offense for the purpose of assisting and
abetting --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But this is -- this
is a new position for the government. My understanding
is that you -- your clients were on the other side of
this position in Castro-Rodriguez itself; is that not
correct?
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I don't think
that we categorically deny that you could have this sort
of proceeding. And in the op to this case -- I know
Petitioner says this is a new position in this case.
Pages 13 through 16 of our op embrace Castro-Rodriguez
as the right way to do it. I think it's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that was a
change in the government's position, wasn't it?
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I can say that the --
the government did dispute the particular facts in
Castro-Rodriguez. I can't say that they categorically
rejected the availability of that sort of inquiry. And
that sort of inquiry is not new.
If you look at the Grijalva decision, which
is discussed on -- in footnote 23 of our brief on page
36, that was a precursor to the controlled substance
ground of removability that is currently in effect. And
so if you look at the language of that precursor
provision, essentially, it said any aliens deportable
for a drug offense, unless that drug offense involves
simple possession of marijuana of 30 grams or less.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So what does -- in a
case in which the Attorney General can cancel removal,
putting aside this case, what are the sort of things he
looks at in deciding whether or not to cancel removal?
MR. SHAH: It's a balance of equities.
After, assuming that the -- the alien has established
the three eligibility criteria set forth, it will be a
balance. It's a favorable exercise of discretion. It's
a balance of the equities.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So one of the
things, presumably, is the amount of drugs involved,
whether they were for intent to distribute for
remuneration -- all the sorts of things that you say he
can consider under the provision that says he does not
have the authority to cancel removal.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, those are the sorts
of factors that might be open to consideration, but what
Congress did is it took away the ability for the
Attorney General to exercise that discretion. That was
the main purpose of this very aggravated felony
provision.
Now, Justice Sotomayor, if I can go to
your --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Each time you get -- you
say that, you get back into the hole that Justice Kagan
has been asking you to climb out of. If -- if Congress'
intent was to bar discretion, then I'm not quite sure
how you get to your alternative to get out of your --
MR. SHAH: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- overinclusiveness
argument.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, this will bar
discretion in the vast majority of cases, and here's
why. -if I could go back to the data question that you
asked, Justice Sotomayor, we do have Federal data, and I
interpret the data a little bit differently than my
colleague.
What data we have is that, over the last
decade, there have been over 60,000 convictions under --
under Section 841(a), for crimes involving something
more than possession of marijuana. 60,000. There have
been, in those 10 years, exactly 20 that have been
sentenced under Section 841(b)(4).
My colleague combines 844(a), which is a
possession offense, but if you isolate out of the data
only those who qualify for the mitigating exception,
those who are charged with distribution of marijuana,
but only have a small amount of remuneration, you have
20 out of over 60,000.
I think this is a fairly atypical case. To
the extent this Petitioner --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do -- do you agree with
Mr. Goldstein when he says, in reality, it's not an
affirmative defense, that the defendant never has to
prove the amount?
MR. SHAH: I -- I don't agree with that
because if it were, in fact, the case that the
government had to disprove the -- the small amount and,
more importantly, the remuneration element, that would
be a very different statute. Every court of appeals and
lots of the Federal --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry, counselor.
I -- the government can do it very easily. If you have
less than an ounce of marijuana and nothing else from
which you can infer an intent to sell or distribute, and
you have no proof that this individual's engaged in drug
trafficking, what more does a defendant have to show?
MR. SHAH: Oh, I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How does it raise his
burden of proof?
MR. SHAH: I'm not saying it -- the
defendant has to show more. I believe Justice -- I
thought Justice Ginsburg's question is what would the
government have to show to disprove it. And I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I guess my point is
that one, which is don't the facts that the government
have either show it or not show it in virtually every
instance?
MR. SHAH: I think it's a very different
question. If you put the burden on the government to
show that, in fact, no remuneration was involved, the
government would have to meet its burden in a criminal
case to show beyond a reasonable doubt that there was no
remuneration at all. That is going to change the result
in a large number of cases where there is a relative --
it's going to be the universe of cases where there is a
relatively small amount of drugs involved.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It would be less than an
ounce.
MR. SHAH: Right. But in -- and in that
universe of cases, in fact, the presumption is probably
going to be that it's not for a distribution or
remuneration.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I go back to your
substantive argument?
MR. SHAH: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. This is a --
you are right. It's an unusually crafted statute. And
really, what the issue is, generally, what you have with
lesser included offenses is you have a base offense and
then an enhancement that goes up. You commit the base
offense --
MR. SHAH: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- of burglary, but if
you did it with an explosive or you did it with a
dangerous weapon, it goes up.
MR. SHAH: That's exactly right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And applying the
categorical approach is relatively easy there because
either the State offense includes the addition or it
doesn't.
This is sort of in reverse. You've got a
statute with the same elements that can be either a
misdemeanor or a felony. And you're saying it can be
either under the CSA, but we have to assume it's the
greater because --
MR. SHAH: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- of Apprendi, because
of -- of --
MR. SHAH: I -- I think it's because of the
proper interpretation of the statute. Apprendi might
have influenced that interpretation of the statute, but
every court of appeals that has interpreted this statute
has said that the -- the default punishment, is this
punishable up to 5 years --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's under
Apprendi.
MR. SHAH: Well, both before and after
Apprendi, Your Honor, this statute was interpreted the
same way. Apprendi didn't change anything because there
were no sentencing factors or elements --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the point.
MR. SHAH: -- to get to the 5-year --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Didn't we -- didn't we
talk about the categorical approach in footnote 3 of our
case in Carachuri?
MR. SHAH: Uh-huh.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Where we said that, in
talking about the generic Federal offense, whether it's
a felony or not, that we can't look at just strictly the
elements of the crime, but we have to also look at the
sentencing factors because, when we're talking about
what constitutes a misdemeanor or a felony under Federal
law, we have to look at both.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, what Carachuri
involved was something very different. It involved a
recidivism factor, an aggravating factor. When you are
talking about an aggravating factor, Apprendi
jurisprudence has treated those somewhat equivalent to
an element because it raises the statutory maximum. And
so when you are trying to decide whether something is
punishable as a felony, it's natural to look at the
aggravating factor.
The other thing I would say about Carachuri
is that it's easily distinguishable on the grounds that
Justice Ginsburg raised. It -- the government's
argument in Carachuri was much more difficult. The
government was trying to rely on a recidivism factor
that was not part of the predicate conviction. And it
was trying to rely on that factor to elevate what was
otherwise a misdemeanor under both State and Federal law
to a felony.
Here, the predicate conviction itself has
all the elements that are required for a Federal felony
under the CSA, namely possession of marijuana and a
specific intent to distribute it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the same elements
would go to the misdemeanor. Really, the issue for me
is it could be one or both. And when do we tell the
immigration judge that he can, should, or should not --
MR. SHAH: I think there are --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- choose between the
two?
MR. SHAH: I think there are -- I think
there are two ways, Your Honor, that -- two different
lines of reasoning that show that the government's
approach to the categorical part of the inquiry is -- is
the right approach and not Petitioner's approach. The
first is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: However you do it, the
misdemeanor still has the same three elements.
MR. SHAH: Well, here's -- here's how --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how do we choose
between it being a misdemeanor or a felony?
MR. SHAH: Right. I think here -- here are
the two ways you get there. First is by looking at how
this Court has consistently formulated the categorical
inquiry. Starting with Taylor, pre-Apprendi case,
compare the elements of the predicate offense to the
those of the generic offense.
Fast forward past Apprendi through all of
the more recent cases, Lopez and not -- still the same
inquiry, focusing on the elements of the predicate and
the elements of the generic.
If that is not enough for you,
Justice Sotomayor, if there is still some uncertainty as
to when you have mitigating factors, like in this case,
and the question is, well, does the predicate conviction
have to affirmatively negate those narrow mitigating
criteria, then this Court can look, if it wants to go to
first principles, look at this Court's decision in
Nijhawan.
There, it had a different aggravating
felony, certain fraud and deceit offenses which resulted
in a $10,000 loss to the victim. What the Court said,
look, fraud and deceit, those are clearly elements, we
are going to apply the categorical approach to -- to
figure out whether those elements are satisfied. But
the $10,000 loss factor, we're not sure. We're not sure
whether the predicate offense has to affirmatively
establish it or not.
And so what the Court did is it did a survey
of the 50 States. It looked at the 50 States. And it
turns out that, in a vast majority of those States, the
predicate conviction will never establish that $10,000
loss factor. And so you're going to have a vastly
underinclusive aggravated felony.
And that's something that Congress -- that
Congress could not have intended. The Court said
Congress would not have intended its aggravated felony
provision to apply in such a limited and haphazard
manner.
I submit that's exactly what you have here
on pages 26 to 30 of our brief. And Petitioner does not
take issue with a single one of the statutes that we
cite. And we go through all 50 of them. We show that,
in a clear majority of the States, the predicate
conviction will not establish that there is remuneration
or more than a small amount.
Congress cannot --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Shah, I think the
problem with your main argument is that it leads you to
a result that you don't want to accept because your main
argument is all we've done in our past cases -- and I
can argue with this, but your argument is all we've done
is compare the elements.
But if all we do is compare the elements,
then we don't get to your discretionary scheme in which
we also admit evidence of -- of the case-specific nature
of the offense.
I mean, so your arguments all go towards a
very purist solution. And then you say, oh, no, that's
a crazy solution. It's a crazy solution because we
would wind up saying that misdemeanants, like this
person, like people who are actually convicted under
(b)(4) who are clearly misdemeanants, would wind up as
aggravated felons and -- and must be deported.
MR. SHAH: Well, well, first, Your Honor, I
am glad that we have an agreement on the first part of
the categorical inquiry because I think that is the main
part of the inquiry that this -- that would establish --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't think we really have
an agreement --
MR. SHAH: Okay.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- because it seems to me
that Carachuri actually says we don't just look to
elements. But if we were just to look to elements in
the way you're arguing for, we wouldn't get the result
that you're arguing for.
MR. SHAH: Again, Your Honor, I think you
have to look at this particular aggravated felony, which
I think is structured similar to other aggravated
felonies in the INA.
If you look at the aggravated felony in the
INA that's on page -- top of page 34 of our brief, and
that -- that is the one about document fraud crimes, it
says the alien -- then, if the alien then shows that
that document fraud crime was perpetrated in order to
help a family member, then no more aggravated felony.
How does the alien make that showing? He
comes into immigration court -- after it's already been
established that you have the predicate document fraud
felony, he comes into immigration court. He has to
bring forth evidence on his own that shows that it
satisfied this familial exception to that document fraud
aggravated felony. I think the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the whole
point -- the whole point is that there is no similar
provision in the statute at issue in this case, right?
MR. SHAH: I think the point is that there
is a similar provision. In the -- the INA here
incorporates the CSA to define the aggravated felony.
The CSA says it's a felony if you have possession plus
intent to distribute, unless the defendant shows -- and
this is how it has been interpreted by every court of
appeals that has interpreted the CSA -- unless the
defendant shows it was only a small amount for no
remuneration.
That is an identical formulation to some of
the other aggravated felonies in the provision. And how
those other aggravated felony provisions have been
interpreted is to allow the alien to come into
immigration court to show the exception.
We are not aware of a single court decision
that has ever interpreted any similar provision in any
of the other aggravated felony provision to require the
predicate conviction to affirmatively negate it.
And that's exactly what Petitioner's main
submission is, that this predicate conviction has to
affirmatively negate the possibility of a narrow
mitigating exception. That is --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't think that that is
quite right, Mr. Shah, because if you read this statute,
what it most looks like is that Congress is simply
classifying two different kinds of conduct.
Congress has the -- the social sharing
conduct, and that's in one section. And the everything
else, the more dangerous conduct, is in another section.
And so it's not something where it's like,
oh, you're trying to get them to negate a specific -- a
point. Congress has created two separate sections,
two -- and one is a felony, and one is a misdemeanor.
And that's the -- the real way to understand this
statute.
And then the categorical approach suggests,
well, in that case, we accept the underinclusion, rather
than the overinclusion.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I disagree with
that characterization of that statute. Every court of
appeals that has considered this statute has rejected
the argument that we have two separate offenses and that
the -- that the government, in order to get to the
higher offense, the -- the default felony provision,
that the government would have to treat as elements
the -- the mitigating criteria of remuneration and small
amount. Every court of appeals has rejected that.
If this statute were drawn as you suggest,
and it were elements of a crime, that is, you had two
separate offenses, one is possession with intent to
distribute a small amount for no remuneration, or it
could just say possession with intent to distribute
marijuana, if that was one distinct offense that was a
misdemeanor, and then Congress created a second offense
that says, in cases where there is more than a small
amount, in which there is remuneration, then you get a
five-year maximum instead of a one-year maximum, that is
effectively making, as an element, the government to
disprove both the possibility of no remuneration and
more than a small amount.
If that was the statutory scheme that were
at issue, I would agree with you, Petitioner would
prevail under the categorical approach. That's not
the -- that's not the statutory scheme here.
They do not disagree with that. They --
they agree that every court of appeals that has
interpreted this has interpreted it as one offense and
that those mitigating criteria are just that, they are
mitigating exceptions and not offense elements.
I think the other point I would make, Your
Honor, is that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess I don't understand,
Mr. Shah. That seems just a question of labeling to me.
I mean, why should we -- why should we accept that
labeling, rather than, look, what Congress did here was
to say that certain kinds of offenses are felonies
deserving of grave punishment, and other kinds of
offenses are misdemeanors deserving of less than a year
in prison, and -- and we see those -- those categories
of conduct differently.
And if you are saying that if Congress
had -- had said two separate offenses, then the
categorical approach means that Mr. Goldstein's client
wins, I guess I just don't get what in this statute
suggests something different from that.
MR. SHAH: Two things, Your Honor. One is I
don't think it's a matter of labeling because Congress
knows that these labels actually have big consequences.
If you made those mitigating criteria elements, that
would be a very different statute, which the government
in every case would have to show beyond a reasonable
doubt that it's more -- more than a small quantity.
That may not be difficult; but in cases
where there is a small quantity, it may, in fact, be
difficult to disprove --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, I thought that
when Congress enacted this provision, there was not the
distinction between elements and sentencing factors that
we now have, that the statute was enacted, in other
words, before Apprendi.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, this statute was
enacted before Apprendi, but Apprendi doesn't change the
interpretation of this statute. This statute -- in the
relevant criteria.
This statute was interpreted -- interpreted
both the same before and after Apprendi, with respect to
the default provision, because the default provision
doesn't require any factors or elements at all to get to
the felony provision.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That may be, but it
certainly goes to your argument that Congress had in
mind some distinction between elements and sentencing
factors.
MR. SHAH: Well, I think what Congress had
in mind is that those mitigating criteria would not be
treated as elements.
And, Justice Kagan, to get back to your
question, how do we know? Well, we can look at what --
the inquiry that the Court did in Nijhawan. It would
not be -- it would not be consistent with Congressional
intent to assume that Congress intended that this
aggravated felony provision would not have any effect in
the clear majority of States that do not make either
remuneration or more than a small quantity an element of
the offense.
That is what Nijhawan was about. It was
trying to figure out, did Congress intend this
particular piece of the aggravated felony description to
be subject to the categorical approach or not? That is,
did it require the predicate conviction to establish or
negate it? And the right way to look at that is to look
at the State of the State laws.
And here, we know that, in a clear majority
of States, they do not require remuneration, they do not
require more than a small amount. You will never get an
aggravated felony conviction out of a majority of
States. Congress could not have intended that result.
That's what Nijhawan stands for.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If you do not -- if you do
not prevail in this case, can you simply solve this
problem in the discretionary removal proceedings?
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I think that's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You just say we're going
to -- we're going to order you removed, unless you bring
in evidence that this was a minor amount, period.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I -- I think that
that -- I think that's an open question. That's one
that has not come up yet. I think
Congress specifically --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, don't you think
it's -- it's, under the law and under administrative
practice, that it's an option available to you?
MR. SHAH: It may -- it may be -- be an
option open to the Attorney General to do that. The
Attorney General would have to issue an order to that
ground. I imagine it would be challenged and we'd have
to litigate it. But what we do know is that Congress
didn't want those sort of discretionary determinations
made. Congress knew that all of these areas --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, under the --
under the -- do you have the same answer as
Mr. Goldstein, that the modified categorical approach
wouldn't permit the immigration judge to look at the
plea allocution to determine the amount?
MR. SHAH: I think the modified categorical
approach would allow -- would allow --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that in -- in many of
these cases that we're talking about, it is possible
that the plea allocution itself would set out the
amounts that the alien sold or show that he sold
something --
MR. SHAH: Yes, Your Honor, I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and that would take
care of this issue of how many people are escaping
automatic removal?
MR. SHAH: I think if the -- the plea
agreement or plea colloquy set forth the amount and it
was more than a small amount, I think the modified --
our position would be that the modified categorical
approach would allow you to reach that.
Petitioner's and his amici's argument are
essentially that the plea agreements aren't going to say
that in a large majority of these cases, for the simple
reason that a -- that a vast majority of the States
don't make more than a small quantity an element of the
crime, and so it's going to be irrelevant. But that
simply shows --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the vast majority --
the vast majority, in my experience, do -- do say
whether the crime was for sale or distribution.
MR. SHAH: And if that's the case, then the
government would agree that, if we were to lose this
case, we could then look at -- look at that evidence
to -- to show -- to disprove more than a small amount,
something that's not an element in any of the State
crimes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are there any other
consequences? We've been talking only about
dispensation from removal. But are there any other
consequences that matter?
MR. SHAH: Yes, Your Honor, there -- there
are other consequences that matter. For example, a
person who's not -- a person is not only removable and
not only deprived of cancellation relief. There --
those who are aggravated felons are just essentially
deprived of all forms of discretionary relief, except
for Convention Against Torture relief and withholding of
removal.
It also has implications beyond the
immigration context. At the same time that Congress
enacted this aggravated felony provision, it made it a
sentencing enhancement provision in -- in criminal
prosecutions for illegal reentry. And so in any illegal
reentry prosecution, if the defendant is also -- has a
prior conviction for marijuana distribution, they would
be subject to a significant sentencing enhancement under
both the guidelines and Section 1326, the Illegal
Reentry Statute.
If Petitioner's rule were to prevail in a
significant number of those cases, in any State in which
it did not have those relevant elements, that sentencing
enhancement would no longer have operative effect.
So, Your Honor, it's not simply the case, as
Petitioner would like to say, that the only thing here
is -- is a difference between removability and
cancellation of removal relief that the Attorney General
can fix on his own. There are other ancillary
consequences. And I think the criminal -- the
consequence of the criminal prosecution is a significant
one.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does that -- does
the Castro-Rodriguez proceeding take care of those
additional consequences?
MR. SHAH: If -- if I may respond, Your
Honor?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure. Oh, yes.
MR. SHAH: Thank you.
I don't -- I think what -- we haven't had
any criminal cases where the -- where an alien has come
in and tried to make the argument. I imagine, if
Petitioner prevails, it will be made in every single one
of those 1326 reentry prosecutions.
I think, if the Court were to accept the
Government's submission, both on the threshold
categorical inquiry and on the tail-end fact-specific
inquiry, I think a defendant would probably be able to
have the opportunity to try to make that showing in the
Federal sentencing proceeding as well.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Goldstein, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, I told
you I was going to acknowledge the strengths of the
other side's case. And I want to just recognize that
you can conceivably read the statute their way. But the
question is, if you actually adopt their statutory
construction argument and you say we're going to look at
the elements and it's an aggravated felony, we're
comparing two different ways of reading it.
And they admit that their way of reading the
statute comes up with an answer that Congress couldn't
possibly have intended by treating all these
misdemeanants as aggravated felons.
Now, their solution is to add a whole
'nother proceeding that isn't in the statute. Another
solution is just to recognize their reading is wrong.
If it produces this ridiculous result that Congress
couldn't have intended, and our reading is perfectly
sensible and not only do you have the solution of the
removal proceedings, but also Justice Kennedy's
suggestion of the Attorney General's ability to issue an
order, Justice Sotomayor's solution of being able to
look at the plea allocution, questions that aren't
presented here, but lots of ways of addressing any
adverse consequences of our rule.
What in statutory construction allows us
just to add this procedure that --
JUSTICE BREYER: But it's the word
"punishable," I think.
MR. SHAH: Well, "punishable" is a good
word --
JUSTICE BREYER: So you're thinking, under
Georgia law, this is punishable as a felony only if it
wasn't a small amount used for personal use, you see,
and therefore, they go into the hearing.
It's not punishable as an 841 felony, unless
those two things are absent, and therefore, they have
the hearing to find out. And the word "punishable"
doesn't appear in the statutes, the other ones that
we've construed. That's what I thought they were doing.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. But I don't think
that's actually what they're doing because Mr. Shah did
not deny Justice Kagan's questions about, yeah, it would
produce this ridiculous result, and so we're going to
add this other proceeding.
When they say -- what they do with
punishable is they say look at only the elements of the
Federal offense. And that's how they say that any
Georgia conviction, even though, Justice Ginsburg, lots
of these convictions will just be equivalents to Federal
misdemeanors because they are the equivalent of --
because they involve possession with intent to
distribute, those are the only elements of the offense,
then they're all punishable as felonies, even if they
would be a misdemeanor.
So I don't think punishable helps them. And
they don't seem to argue on the basis of punishable. So
my base point to you is that why, in choosing between
these two readings, we have strengths, they have
strengths. Their argument starts from the proposition
that theirs produces a result that Congress couldn't
have intended.
And, Mr. Chief Justice, they did start out
with the hardcore position. I can give you the example.
It's our case. Remember, even though this is 1.3 grams,
even though he was not convicted of selling, they
ordered him mandatorily deportable without an inquiry
into the underlying facts. They recognize that can't be
right. And so they are trying to tack something on to
the statute that doesn't appear in the statute.
The last point that I want to address is
actually a very small one. And that's about
Justice Thomas' dissent in the Lopez case on whether you
should look to the State definition of whether this is a
felony or instead, the Federal one, because the
government cites it in a footnote in their brief.
And we would only say that the government is
not relying on the Lopez dissent. It invokes Lopez
repeatedly in the Federal courts. And so this is a
situation in which the Court's decision in Lopez should
take hold as a matter of statutory -- stare decisis, and
what matters here is the Federal treatment of it.
When you don't know if the Georgia
conviction is a felony or a misdemeanor under Federal
law, you don't know which one it is, what the
categorical rule says is that the State conviction
doesn't necessarily establish it's a Federal offense,
the Federal felony here, and therefore, you don't treat
it that way.
The -- the arguments that my friend ended
with -- ended with about, hey, this is going to be
applied in Federal sentencing and lots of other
contexts, makes it worse, not better. How in the world
are we going to have these others Castro-Rodriguez
proceedings, these other intermediate proceedings about
determining the facts of the offense in Federal
sentencing? It gets vastly more complicated.
Our rule addresses the core concern of
Congress. It gets the right people deported. Their
rule, because it's overinclusive, there will be
noncitizens who can't prove their offense was a
misdemeanor, and they shouldn't be removed.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
16:18 34:15 aliens 31:16 appear 63:4 33:10 34:24,25
affirmatively alien's 38:25 APPEARAN... 46:15 49:15,17
61:9 52:5,8 7:24 58:2,7 appendix 5:24 55:24 58:19
agent 28:6 62:13 6:1 7:7 61:3,15,22
65:23 6:25 8:1 16:11 58:4,4,18 23:20 arguments
54:11 31:2,15,23 41:11 19:14 aside 12:11
32:16 33:4,21 amici's 58:19 apply 7:25 15:5 40:11
61:18 38:16,18,21 23:6 26:3 29:5 45:1,4,10,12 assisting 38:24
28:5 51:9,15,23,24 36:11 40:19 approach 5:18 36:4 44:23
63:10 56:24 59:18,24 43:20 49:12 14:5,14,21 assumes 30:4
48:11 58:16 59:7 44:17 45:18 attempts 20:11
42:10,14 53:24 analogy 17:8 56:17 57:25 14:25 22:6,8
agreed 5:25 ancillary 60:15 Approximate 24:7,19 25:2
57:14 50:11 58:15 27:14 57:24 25:19 40:10 41:2
58:20 answered 37:4 argue 15:2 62:11
alien 38:23,23 apologize 5:6 2:2,5,8 3:3,6 20:5
BIA 4:25 23:12 25:9 33:11,15,18 34:4,7,11
35:12 54:25 capricious 24:18 60:20 65:9 51:10 60:19,24
bit 4:14 36:3 17:23 18:8 7:20 8:6,7 14:4 65:19
blue 5:21,24 46:3,12,15 18:20,22 19:13 choose 47:5,16
37:1 Carachuri-Ro... 30:23 35:18 cigarettes 27:9
Breyer 9:22 22:3,19 48:15 50:8 24:8
11:7,11 care 58:12 60:20 52:23 53:25 circumstances
12:21 13:1,5,8 5:17 6:2 8:17 61:8 65:1 cite 49:9
25:10 brief 5:21,25 6:3 14:3 15:10,17 39:14,23 class 33:3
33:8,13 7:6 26:15 16:12 17:9,24 categories 54:16 classified 20:13
44:2 37:21,22 38:9 18:8,10 26:8 century 34:21 20:14
38:14,20 40:2 27:7,25 28:1,4 certain 38:21 classifying
22:9 40:11 42:8,15 challenged clear 15:11
broad 22:16 59:6 60:11 changed 4:9 54:20
43:3,13,15 9:23,24 11:6 18:8 code 13:6 19:7
burglary 44:12 12:3,4 14:6,11 charge 10:13,15 colleague 41:20
3:7 C 26:16 27:22 charged 7:15 collect 4:3
61:16 C 1:16 2:1,3,9 28:20 30:9,10 42:5 colloquy 8:3
43:5 call 12:3 26:19 43:24 47:25 Chief 3:3,8 combined 4:19
40:23 60:8 61:2 15:25 16:6 28:6 32:15
43:16 8:13 9:16 16:9 49:22 29:18 30:3,17 51:25 57:11
59:23 62:1,7 31:16 32:2,22 48:20 49:2 decade 41:22
30:5 Congressional conviction 8:9 52:2 53:2,9 decide 46:9
51:4,6 56:8 8:10 13:6,14 54:3 56:7 61:6deciding 40:12
consequence 14:17,19 15:3 courts 64:19 decision 23:22
22:11 59:15 60:16,21 21:1 22:22 cover 19:25 decisis 64:21
29:13 62:15 29:25 30:18 covers 19:25 deemed 13:6
38:23 consider 31:4 31:1,23 33:24 crafted 44:6 default 33:23
40:22 35:1,1,2 37:23 crazy 50:1,1 45:7 53:6
27:7 considered 53:3 48:23 49:11 creates 38:6 defendant 16:19
32:7 56:24 60:3 45:24 51:1 36:11,19 42:12
35:25 56:8 65:1 59:3 51:17,20 60:2
47:20 26:2,23 27:11 41:23 50:24 defense 16:18
37:25 38:2 core 65:13 criminal 17:8,11define 51:15
65:12 12:5 61:22 32:8,10 39:12 43:15 59:25 13:22 36:5,9
contemplates corresponds 48:8 53:8 54:5denies 22:8
30:11 contexts 26:13 counsel 31:8 33:23,25 34:13 39:14 63:8
65:8 55:8,9 57:23 34:17 36:4,16 Department
contrast 4:12 61:12 65:19,20 44:23 46:23 1:19 4:7 27:2
32:15,25 36:10,14,19 course 30:8 Cyr 23:22 deportation
36:4,5 40:3 37:13 31:21 32:3
Convention court 1:1,13 3:9 D deported 35:15
49:1,2,3 59:20 8:12 9:14 D 3:1 38:3 50:5
52:12,14 convicted 3:11 12:22 13:2 dangerous 65:14
53:16 3:13 7:16 10:4 14:4 18:7,8,14 44:14 52:16 depose 14:3
13:9,16,21,22 22:2,10 25:20 data 4:7,13,13 deprived 59:17
56:2 18:23,25 19:1 31:13 34:18 30:21 41:17,18 59:19
19:6,7,15,20 42:18 45:6 41:19,21 42:3 derived 28:12
21:9 29:10 47:20 48:8,13 deal 33:6 description
dispense 7:12 D.C 1:9,16,19 46:7 63:16 explain 6:22
42:16 43:7 E 63:15 explained 8:12
dispute 39:22 46:13 ESQ 1:16,18 2:3 extent 22:15
distinct 53:15 effect 22:17 40:4 essentially 40:6 extremely 26:4
11:21 27:10 effectively 53:20 establish 48:19 F
60:13 distinguishable 44:18,21,23 50:9 56:18 22:14,22 25:19
29:21 distribute 3:12 element 31:24 established 35:24 42:15
37:17 5:9 7:12,13 8:9 42:17 46:8 37:23 40:14 43:14,24 55:6
43:12 10:11,15,16 53:20 56:12 51:5 factor 8:15
47:8 11:6,19,24 58:23 59:8 everybody 6:8 32:17 46:5,5,6
52:13 19:2,3,12,16 elements 14:17 26:20 46:11,16,18
55:2 21:11 33:25 14:21 35:3,6 everybody's 48:17,24
34:2 35:2 35:19 36:15 15:11 factors 40:25
54:17 42:23 46:24 46:22,25 47:14 8:10 12:16 55:11,21 56:1
55:5,7 63:18 48:14,16 49:19 51:7 57:8 59:6 17:10 28:15
35:8 59:3 60:3 56:4 60:9 37:3 41:25 14:10 15:4
22:1 53:1 14:3,9 elevate 46:18 52:6 fact-found
divisible 19:10 Eleventh 13:11 example 5:10 16:13 17:3
32:16 50:24 51:1,5,8 embrace 39:17 exception 34:1 fair 30:23,24
documents enacted 27:24 34:15 36:17 fairly 42:8
38:4 10:12 32:15 55:10,12 42:4 51:8 52:1 familial 51:8
41:2,10 doing 4:23 34:20 55:15 59:24 52:9 family 51:2
34:23 63:5,7 ended 65:5,6 exceptions 54:6 Fast 47:24
32:12 55:4 engaged 42:24 6:11 13:18 14:8,25
49:21 draw 17:7 enhancement exercise 8:16 23:19
59:19 drawn 53:10 44:9 59:25 33:14,18 35:10 favorable 40:16
40:7,7 42:24 entering 12:23 41:2 Federal 3:21,23
40:19 43:20 equivalent 36:7 59:2 13:13,20 16:16
56:15 23:7,10,17,20 48:15,24 57:6 13:11 20:5
28:1
29:3,4 first 3:4 13:17 25:16 31:3 61:18,22 63:9 27:15 38:20
30:12 16:25 17:5,15 32:17 33:8 65:6,9 39:20 46:14
34:15 20:20 47:12,19 40:10 41:2 Goldstein 1:16 47:9 61:7
41:18
50:6,7 57:17,18 60:14 2:3,9 3:5,6,8 grams 5:11 6:4
45:22 five-year 53:19 generally 44:7 4:2 5:6,13,16 6:18,19 40:8
fix 60:15 General's 33:12 6:13,16,19 8:2 64:5
63:13,15 fixes 20:25 62:11 8:22,25 9:3,5 granting 33:2
flaws 25:23 generic 45:22 10:8 11:2,10 granular 4:14
fly 26:19 47:23 48:2 11:14,17,20 grave 54:14
focusing 48:1 Georgia 3:12,19 12:20,25 13:4 greater 44:24
50:21 follows 22:23 7:5 9:10 10:10 14:7,15,18,23 ground 19:17
54:13 footnote 40:2 14:17,20 19:7 15:9,14,17,21 40:4 57:19
45:18 64:16 21:9 26:23 15:24 16:5,7 grounds 46:13
50:5 forms 59:19 37:23 62:23 18:6,18,21,25 54:21
62:3 formulated 63:14 64:23 19:9,19,23 guessed 9:25
9:11 formulation 5:16 7:1 16:15 21:12,14,19,21 guilt 12:23,24
16:11 36:8 51:22 16:22 17:23 21:25 23:1,14 13:3
19:4 forth 40:15 51:7 21:5,7,13,15 24:12,15,25 guilty 7:21
22:12,17 58:15 21:20,23 22:1 25:3,6,8,13,15
29:13 fortunate 6:5 22:23 23:1 25:18 27:1 H
31:2,15 forward 16:13 27:19 42:10 28:19,21 29:1 H 1:6
32:16 47:24 46:14 59:10 29:6,9,20
36:2 14:9 Ginsburg's 57:25 61:13,15
38:1,3,6 48:12,14 50:24 give 4:4 28:24 Goldstein's 29:7
51:1,5,8 64:4 54:20 happened 12:12
44:22 free 31:15,19,20 glad 50:7 good 30:13 happens 22:6
46:1,10 31:21,22 go 16:6 17:25 62:20 hard 4:3
47:17 friend 28:3 65:5 18:4,9,11,11 gotten 7:18
49:3
51:2 functionally 22:24 29:18 16:22 17:25
37:18 36:23 41:5,17 18:11 19:21 37:7
52:4,20 further 17:20 44:2 47:1 48:8 22:24 28:13 heading 38:13
55:22 49:9,24 62:25 35:17 39:9,22 hear 3:3 5:4,5
G goes 44:9,14 42:16,21 43:7 15:13
61:23 G 3:1 55:24 43:9,13,15 hearing 62:25
63:1 game 35:18 39:2 going 3:20 5:21 46:16 53:5,7
65:3
48:16 14:25 22:8 43:17,19,25 government's help 51:2
33:17 59:22 50:8,9 56:7 40:7 22:1,23 23:1,9
37:11 importantly 61:8,9 64:7 involving 30:9 24:9,13,22
39:13 42:17 INS 32:7 41:23 25:1,4,7,11,14
40:24 INA 33:22 34:13 inserting 26:8 irrelevant 8:3 25:16 26:21
44:25 34:17 37:3 instance 43:11 26:4 28:16 27:3,15,18
46:3 38:19 39:1,4 intend 56:15 58:24 28:19,22 29:2
50:6,18 50:21,23 51:14 intended 21:10 isolate 42:3 29:7,18 30:3
54:8,23 include 9:10 49:2,3 56:9,25 issue 8:18,21 30:17 31:8,12
57:5,9 11:25 62:2,8 64:2 22:2 23:10 31:19 32:2,6
59:14 included 44:8 intends 11:19 29:14 37:18 32:13,19 33:9
includes 19:11 intent 3:12 5:9 44:7 47:1 49:8 34:4,7,11,22
inconsistent 11:24 19:1,3 62:11 38:8,11 39:8
19:11,16 33:24 39:19 40:9,18
37:18 33:22 34:13,17 51:17 53:12,14 JR 1:6 44:2,5,12,16
36:3 51:15 56:9 63:17 judge 7:23 8:13 45:1,9,15,17
36:6 37:16 interested 28:3 32:7 47:3 58:1 47:5,13,16
61:3 individual 32:8 37:6 45:4,5 46:7 59:10 60:19,24
individuals 32:3 interpreted 45:6 3:8,24 4:8 5:2 62:12,18,22
5:23 7:23 42:24 51:25 52:3 6:14,17 7:1,19 64:13 65:19
11:3 infer 29:11 54:4,4 55:18 8:18,24 9:1,4 justify 24:4
15:22 42:23 55:18 9:22 10:9 11:7
17:16 influenced 45:5 interviewing 11:11,15,18,21 K
25:5 26:7 information 4:4 14:9 12:6,10,14,19 Kagan 19:19,24
32:20 27:4 introduced 32:9 12:21 13:1,5,8 20:4,10 23:9
leads 49:15 49:15,16 50:8 mentioned 19:9 Nation's 22:18
35:20 leave 27:13 52:6 met 28:24,24 natural 46:10
38:8,11 length 23:15 major 20:2 middle 15:21 Naturalization
49:14 lesser 44:8 26:25 mind 55:25 56:3 17:17
52:10 let's 7:20 29:2 majority 31:16 minor 20:1 nature 49:22
56:5 36:4 41:16 48:22 26:24 57:8 necessarily
limited 16:14 56:24 58:21,22 mirror 16:16 need 14:13
lines 47:9 making 7:23 37:2 52:8,18 56:19
26:21 lists 14:16 12:11 53:20 misdemeanants negative 7:17
57:2,6 litigate 57:20 mandatorily 20:13,13 50:2 neither 31:17
little 4:14 5:25 64:7 50:4 62:3 never 11:6,8
41:19 22:21 31:20 6:23 10:23 31:23 42:12
longer 60:10 manufacture 28:10 29:16 new 37:13,14,15
54:13,14 10:10 14:2 marijuana 3:12 47:1,14,17 Nijhawan 48:10
20:7 37:17 38:18 33:25 36:12 65:17 noncitizen 16:13
28:3,22 40:1,5 45:23 37:24 40:8 misdemeanors 22:11
32:20 45:24 46:2,10 41:24 42:5,22 3:23 9:21 noncitizens 26:5
56:6,21 48:8,9,14 46:23 53:15 54:15 63:16 65:16
64:23,25 50:14,15,19,22 60:3 misunderstand non-serious
56:19 58:1 material 6:1,3 mitigating 34:1 note 14:25 22:11
63:12 materially 4:9 42:4 48:5,7 number 29:21
looking 14:23 54:24 59:13,15 modified 7:25 O
40:12 52:12 64:22 58:17 obvious 10:1,2
58:21 64:13,18,18,20 53:19,19 3:4,11 5:1 23:4 offender 13:17
23:11 lot 6:6 21:8 49:24 54:11 32:17 16:8,9 21:2
46:2,19 30:20 means 11:6 12:5 22:7 23:5 24:3
62:23 lots 42:19 62:14 54:20 N 26:8 28:14
63:14 65:7 mechanism N 2:1,1 3:1 31:25 38:24
M meet 43:15 48:7 52:8 42:3 44:8,10
48:18 42:22 43:22 62:8 policy 10:13,14 presented 25:22
53:6,15 outcome 24:5 period 57:8 10:17 33:7 62:14
54:4,6 outside 17:25 permissible positing 37:11 presumably
63:13,18 22:24 24:10,11 37:15 40:19
overinclusion permit 58:1 position 9:9 presume 30:23
23:13 overinclusive 51:1 16:1,4,7,10 presumption
44:8 9:19 65:15 person 7:10 20:5 21:4 43:24
53:4,12 overinclusive... 12:12 29:12 22:19 23:3,5 presumptive
19:22 20:6,12 35:5,7,8 50:3 28:9 33:11 36:13
P 3:1 1:17 2:4,10 3:7 possess 7:11,13 prevail 53:25
43:1 7:6 13:13 42:9 49:7 possessed 5:1 prevails 61:4
52:18 22:10 38:20 53:24 60:12 37:24 pre-Apprendi
40:2 50:23,23 61:4,16 possession 3:11 47:21
12:6,6 parallel 27:16 31:14 37:23 10:11 11:5 prior 60:3
18:18 parent 38:25 47:11 52:6 19:1,3,11,16 prison 54:16
50:12 parentheses 58:19 60:7 27:11 33:24 probably 16:3
6:17 phone 10:5,5 35:2 40:8 17:4 43:24
57:10,17 33:15 36:2 play 35:10 possible 27:5 20:17,18,19,22
31:4 19:17 please 3:9 30:17 22:17 26:12 49:15 57:4
pass 31:15,19,20 31:13 practice 57:15 procedure 62:17
31:10 people 11:13,25 19:5 23:19 precisely 14:5 61:11 62:5
25:1 21:9,15,17 45:15 51:11,11 40:5 proceedings
53:5 57:7 29:15 50:3 51:13 52:19 predicate 46:17 5:23 15:22
62:12 58:12 65:14 54:7 63:23 46:21 47:22 57:4 62:10
37:3 38:19 raised 46:14 reference 33:22 31:17,25 36:12
proviso 36:16 random 10:6,16 refers 5:8 42:6,17 43:14
6:2 read 7:10 12:2,4 3:25 19:25 49:11 51:21
43:3 punishable 45:8 22:1,9 37:20 rejected 17:21 53:8,13,18,21
punishment 61:24,25 62:6 27:3 report 5:22
purchase 7:12 readings 63:24 relatively 43:20 reproduced
30:5 39:6 41:3 reality 42:11 8:15 22:12 31:17 37:6
17:11,15 put 38:8 43:13 10:22 11:22 relief 22:13 33:3 56:18,22,23
28:6 putting 40:11 12:11 15:12 59:17,19,20 required 46:22
60:2,17 puzzle 10:2 20:12,14 28:2 60:14 respect 55:19
4:5,10,15 44:7 47:1 relying 64:18 Respondent
27:10 Q 50:10 remaining 61:14 1:20 2:7 31:11
61:5 qualify 42:4 reason 4:8 6:22 Remember response 26:16
28:16 36:20 14:2 15:5 33:21 64:5 43:17 49:16
28:10,23 58:23 28:5 33:7 removability 62:7 63:9 64:1
65:16 quarter 34:21 58:22 40:4 60:13 resulted 48:12
11:8 12:8 reasoning 47:9 removal 3:18 ridiculous 62:7
34:1,17 25:22 30:22 20:20 22:8,13,20,21 right 5:7 8:14,25
6:24 41:17 43:6,13 2:8 61:15 26:14 32:12 11:10,17,23
12:22 48:6 54:10 recidivism 46:5 40:10,12,23 12:21 13:25
29:4,23 56:6 57:10 46:16 57:4 58:13 14:17 15:8,23
30:1 61:21 recognize 61:19 59:12,21 60:14 25:15 28:20
33:1,22 questions 62:13 62:6 64:8 62:10 33:10 34:11
37:18 63:8 recognized removed 24:4 39:18 43:23
40:6,22 question's 13:23 30:25 57:7 65:17 44:5,6,15
49:4 quite 41:10 record 5:14,23 remuneration 47:11,18 51:12
52:11 6:1 7:2,3 16:14 5:15 6:9,21 7:1 52:11 56:19
53:6 17:25 18:11,13 7:4,18,22 64:9 65:14
R 22:25 28:15,18 16:17 21:13 ROBERTS 3:3
59:24,25 R 3:1 reentry 60:1,2,6 26:3 28:16 13:23 14:1,12
16:6 scheme 5:4 33:17 34:6,9 34:18,20 50:20 42:20
25:1,4,7 33:20,23,23 34:12,22 35:16 51:11,14 52:3 sort 25:24 39:14
30:3 34:1,3,13,16 35:23 36:22,25 simple 40:8 39:24,25 40:11
33:9 34:4 35:24 49:21 37:11,15,21 58:21 44:20 57:21
36:21 53:23 54:1 38:5,10,13 simply 37:16 sorts 40:21,24
39:8,19 science 11:1 39:13,21 40:13 52:12 57:3 Sotomayor 3:24
51:10 scope 22:17 40:24 41:12,15 58:25 60:11 7:19 8:18,24
61:12 se 24:6 42:14 43:1,4 single 15:10 9:1,4 19:10
second 7:9 17:4 43:12,23 44:4 16:12 26:8 28:19,22 29:2
24:2,6 secondary 34:9 47:18 49:14 situations 29:25 42:20 43:2,8
31:14 section 7:9 50:6,12,18 small 5:14 6:8 43:21 44:2,5
62:15 41:23 42:1 51:13 52:11 7:1 11:15 44:12,16 45:1
52:15,16 60:5 53:1 54:10,23 13:18 16:17 45:9,15,17,21
selling 7:16 13:18 16:19 56:23 58:16,23 specifically
sensible 62:9 42:25 43:5,7 64:12 57:12
18:12,24 12:15 42:1 55:3 58:8 59:7 30:1 52:14 stands 57:1
43:4 sentencing showing 51:3 socially 34:2 stare 64:21
50:2 45:14,25 55:11 61:10 sold 32:23 58:8 start 8:5 64:3
55:25 59:25 shown 38:23 58:8 starting 23:20
12:22 65:7,12 shows 36:11,19 solution 20:21 starts 63:25
20:23 separate 52:19 50:25 51:7,17 26:1,11,12 State 4:4,6 10:3
35:12,14 53:4,12 54:19 51:20 58:25 49:25 50:1,1 10:7 11:9 12:3
38:14 serious 23:6 side 39:10 62:4,6,9,12 13:16,21 15:20
39:5,16 24:3 30:11 side's 9:6 19:2 solve 20:18 57:3 18:1,2,5 26:2
42:11 seriousness 16:9 61:19 solved 20:22 28:15 29:15,17
51:16 set 40:15 58:7 significant 7:4 21:24 22:5 29:20 31:16,24
65:1 58:15 21:10 60:4,8 somewhat 46:7 31:25 34:14
18:16 Shah 1:18 2:6 silence 28:15 15:14 24:22 46:19 56:20,20
19:6 31:9,10,12,22 silent 28:18 27:2 29:18 59:8 60:8
32:4,11,14,25 similar 20:16 34:6 36:24,25 64:14 65:1
27:8 straight 26:14 27:12 28:17 36:1,7 37:17 31:15 64:22
29:8 strength 9:6 29:21,22 37:19 38:15 treats 9:20 21:1
19:5 39:13,18 42:8 tried 20:6 27:1
31:3 strengths 61:18 T 43:7,12 45:3 27:23,25 61:3
63:24,25 T 2:1,1 47:4,7,7,18 triggered 13:14
56:11,22 strictly 45:23 tack 64:9 49:14 50:8,10 true 18:10 32:14
58:22 strip 31:3 tackle 27:8 50:18,20 51:9 truly 38:11
30:4 structured tail-end 61:8 54:7,24 56:2 trying 16:16
6:10 7:5 stuff 12:1 17:9 26:22 57:13 58:3,10 30:19 46:9,16
9:10 10:3,3 subject 8:20 9:1 28:11,14,17 58:14,16 60:16 46:18 52:18
11:8 17:13 32:3,5 32:16 33:16 61:1,6,9 62:19 56:15 64:9
56:17 60:4 49:8 58:11 63:6,21 turn 17:3
16:16,20 submission 52:7 60:20 64:21 thinking 62:22 turns 48:22
17:16 61:7 taken 35:17 Thomas 1:16 two 4:13 5:20
19:11,17 submit 49:6 talk 17:22 45:18 2:3,9 3:6 61:15 16:19 20:20
20:8,25 submitted 65:21 talking 6:23 64:13 25:23 36:4,15
21:2,9 65:23 17:5 24:23 thought 43:6 47:6,8,8,19
22:6 substance 36:10 32:11 45:22,25 55:9 63:5 52:13,19,20
26:12,23 36:15,19 40:3 46:6 58:6 thousand 37:22 53:4,11 54:19
29:3,4,5 substances 3:14 59:11 three 40:15 54:23 61:24
30:12 16:8 21:1 23:4 Taylor 47:21 47:14 61:13 63:2,24
34:13 substantial tell 30:20 47:2 threshold 61:7 type 14:5 22:12
35:13,21 24:17 telling 23:11 time 9:25 38:15 30:11
substantive 44:3 tells 17:17 41:7 59:23
38:4 suggest 12:3 thank 3:8 31:8 times 38:12 U
44:6,21 19:20 21:3 60:25 61:12 tiny 10:12 30:7 Uh-huh 45:20
32:20 33:7 65:18,19 30:9 unable 27:2 28:2
52:11,22 53:10 theirs 9:8 64:1 today 7:24 13:24 uncertainty
suggesting thing 10:1,3 Today's 3:10 48:4
55:2,12 16:23 18:3 25:12,21 told 61:17 uncounseled
suggestion 46:12 60:12 tools 26:6 26:5
61:20 12:11 62:11 things 4:23 top 38:20 50:23 undercard 3:10
64:10 suggests 52:23 16:19 19:12 Torture 59:20 undercover 28:8
54:22 40:11,19,21 totally 10:15 underinclusion
63:4 suppose 16:2 think 4:21,24 trafficking 3:16 underinclusive
34:24,25 supposed 17:18 11:2,10 12:17 42:25 underinclusiv...
Supreme 1:1,13 17:4 21:8 23:9 transpose 28:17 17:5 19:21
53:23 22:10 23:15,19 24:5 treat 25:8 53:7 20:17,24 21:24
61:21 sure 13:10,12 24:12,15,16 65:3 22:5 25:25
64:21 29:1 41:10 25:18 26:12 treated 46:7 underinclusivi...
16:1 24:7 29:11 37:9 wrong 33:11 2589 22:10
52:21 39:20 62:24 62:6 26 49:7
way 9:4 14:23 wrote 37:8
39:9 34:24,25 36:1 X 3 2:4 45:18
31:3 52:21 56:19 Y 34 38:20 50:23
ways 47:8,19 12:9 14:15
Wednesday years 27:24,25 50:4
38:14 6:14,18 24:1
went 11:3
50 48:21,21 49:9
59:1,2 61:22,23 63:9 10 1:10 38:12 61 2:10
49:17,18 59:11 7
1:14 3:2
1:4 3:4
65:22
39:17
29:9 38:12
39:17
19:7
16-13-2(a) 12:15 841(a) 41:23
18:4 words 12:7 7:9
5:22,24 14:16
49:16 22:15 38:9 841(b)(4) 4:17
61:19 1970 27:24
1996 23:21 24:2 6:24 42:1
work 10:9 844 4:19
worse 14:8 20 41:25 42:7
4:8,9
4:13,20
24:16 32:21 90 30:19
1:10
23:21
