IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
RICK PERRY, GOVERNOR OF TEXAS, :
ET AL., :
Appellants : No. 11-713
v. :
SHANNON PEREZ, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
and
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
RICK PERRY, GOVERNOR OF TEXAS, :
ET AL., :
Appellants : No. 11-714
v. :
WENDY DAVIS, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
and
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
RICK PERRY, GOVERNOR OF TEXAS, :
ET AL., :
Appellants : No. 11-715
v. :
SHANNON PEREZ, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, January 9, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:00 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
Appellants.
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Principal Deputy Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
affirmance in part and vacatur in part.
JOSE GARZA, ESQ., San Antonio, Texas; for Appellees.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Appellants 4
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting affirmance in part
and vacatur in part 28
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JOSE GARZA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Appellees 43
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Appellants 64
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:00 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next today in Case 11-713, Perry v. Perez, and the
consolidated cases.
Mr. Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The judicial maps drawn here are truly
remarkable. They reflect the reality that the district
court below lost sight of first principles. The court
repeatedly invoked the principle that these were only
interim maps and not remedial maps, but that obscures
the reality that a court has the authority to draw an
election map, surely one of the most powerful judicial
tools in the judicial arsenal, only if it is identifying
specific statutory or constitutional violations or a
substantial likelihood thereof.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Clement, section 5
says you can't draw new maps unless they've been
precleared. You can't put them into effect.
MR. CLEMENT: But --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, the only thing that
exists is old maps until you get the preclearance.
I don't see how we can give deference to an
enacted new map, if section 5 says don't give it effect
until it's been precleared.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Sotomayor,
obviously, section 5 is clear that the new map drawn by
the Texas legislature, the new maps drawn by the Texas
legislature, cannot take effect of their own force. But
that doesn't answer the question of whether a judge,
when having to impose a remedial map to address what all
concede is a one-person, one-vote problem with the
benchmark maps, can look to the new maps which also
remedy that same one-person, one-vote problem, for
guidance. And this Court in its --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you're asking for
more than for guidance. You're asking for deference.
You're saying they have to start with the new map even
though that map hasn't been approved.
MR. CLEMENT: That's right, Your Honor. We
think they --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Instead of starting, as
the court below did, with the old map which had been
approved.
MR. CLEMENT: Right. We are -- in fairness,
we're asking for it to be used as the starting point for
drawing the new map, but that's because --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Doesn't that turn
section 5 on its head?
MR. CLEMENT: No, I don't think so, Your
Honor, for a number of reasons. One is that the
obligation to go to the preclearance court or to go to
the Attorney General remains fully in place. So, the
only question is, what is going to inform the district
court in Texas's exercise of remedial authority to
remedy the one-person, one-vote problem with the
remedial plans -- with the benchmark plans, rather?
Now, this Court from the very beginning of
its reapportionment cases has emphasized the need to
look for legislative guidance in order to inform the
judicial exercise of solving that reapportionment
problem. And the need to look to the new maps I think
is most acute, of course, with the congressional maps
because the benchmark is -- is a fine map, but it's a
map for 32 seats. And Congress here -- the legislature
of Texas has spoken as to how it would like to divide
the new 36-seat allocation up. And it seems to be quite
odd that the court would simply ignore that judgment
when it could look to that as the starting point.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It didn't -- it didn't
ignore it. It took it into account along with other
plans. My -- Mr. Clement, suppose the D.C. court that
has exclusive authority over preclearance in
mid-February denies preclearance. And suppose --
suppose we accept your position. You prevail in -- in
this proceeding. And then the three-judge district
court says this -- this plan -- these plans do not meet
the section 5 requirement; we deny preclearance. What
happens if we use the Texas plan that has not been
precleared as the interim plan?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, as a
practical matter, I suppose at that point Appellees
would go to the court in Texas and say you need to
revise your interim maps once again.
Now, I think, since the premise for the
court drawing its interim maps is that time is of the
essence, it can't wait any longer, the Texas court may
deny that motion or it may grant that motion. I mean, I
don't -- I don't really have a crystal ball to take that
into account.
But what I do think is particularly
anomalous is let's suppose that the D.C. court does deny
preclearance. At that point, it's common ground that
the plan, the legislatively enacted plan, even though
it's denied preclearance, would be something that the
Texas court would have to defer to. That's basically
Upham.
So, it's the oddity of the other side's
position --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't see how it's
basically Upham. That was a plan -- there were two
contiguous districts. There was a problem with them.
The Attorney General said the rest of it was okay. Here
the entire plan -- the plans are -- are opposed.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I mean
it's true that the Justice Department does raise a
purpose objection to the plans as a whole, but of course
even that takes its force from the way particular
districts are being drawn. It seems to me quite likely
that -- you know, obviously, our position is that the
D.C. court is most likely to grant preclearance. But if
they were to deny it, it seems quite likely that they
would deny it as to particular districts. And then
Upham would make clear that you would give -- that the
Texas court would give deference to the legislative
plan.
And the anomaly of the other side's position
is you give less deference to a plan when preclearance
is pending than you do when preclearance is denied.
JUSTICE ALITO: Can I ask you a question
about timing? Let's suppose that the district court in
Washington moves expeditiously and issues a decision in
mid-February. Are there insuperable problems with
postponing the Texas primary so that the plan that is to
be used can -- doesn't have to be formulated until after
the district court in Washington has ruled?
Texas has a very early primary. Some States
have them for congressional races in -- in the fall, and
the latest presidential primary I think is at the end of
June. So, why can't this all be pushed back, and
wouldn't that eliminate a lot of the problems that we
are grappling with in this case?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Alito, two --
two answers: One is, as a practical matter, all of the
affected, you know, entities in Texas have gotten
together, and they've agreed on the ability to move the
primary back to April, given -- on the assumption that a
map could be in place by February 1st.
Now, you know, the primary has been moved
from March to April already. So, I can't tell you that
it's impossible to move it again, but it's also quite,
you know, in a sense -- I mean, the question becomes --
I mean, Texas has made its own determination that it
wants to have a relatively early primary. That's not
something it cocked up for this set of elections. It's
had that in place since at least 1988. And so, the
question is how much do you want to interfere with that
judgment?
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if we have a binary
choice, if it's either the plan enacted by the Texas
legislature or the plan that's already been drawn up by
the court, yes, that could be presumably resolved rather
quickly. But what if neither of those is fully
acceptable? Then is it -- is it practicable to have the
primary on the date that's been agreed on? And if not,
then wouldn't -- would you just prefer to limit us to
those two possibilities or would Texas entertain the
possibility of moving the primary back?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, look, Texas wants the
Court to have the opportunity to get this right. We
think the decision below is profoundly wrong. We think
it's important for this Court to send a clear signal to
the courts that would provide relief not just in this
case but to future situations where this arose.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just one more question.
MR. CLEMENT: Sure.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Background question about
preclearance. Assume that the court of appeals -- that
the three-judge district court in Columbia in the
preclearance proceeding finds some problems with two or
three of the districts, say, in the congressional plan.
Does it just say we -- there are problems with these
districts, we therefore deny preclearance; or does it
then give guidance and say we would give preclearance if
you made the following changes? Does it -- in other
words, does it give you a road map? How do these
decisions work? That's what I'm asking.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I don't think there's a
road map for the extent to which they give a road map.
I think there are two things that are crystal clear.
One is that when the D.C. authority, be it the Attorney
General or the court, denies preclearance, it denies
preclearance. The plan is not precleared. There's no
such thing as preclearance in part or partial
preclearance. As the Justice Department puts it, it
doesn't work like a line item veto.
Now, that's not to say -- and here's the second
point. That's not to say that the court doesn't provide
reasoning for its decision, or the Attorney General.
And that's why in Upham, for example, that the Court --
this Court knew that the objections were to two
particular districts, even though the effect in Upham
was to not preclear the whole plan. And it seems to me
the mistake of the district court is it effectively
treats the un-precleared plan as a nullity. And that's
the exact word that Judge Johnson used in the lower
court opinion in Upham.
And this Court reversed because it said no,
you don't ignore that, but on the other hand, what you
do is you take into account the judgment of the Attorney
General in that case; but other than that, you take the
plan into account notwithstanding the fact that it
hasn't been precleared.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But we've said over and
over, Mr. Clement, that it's the Attorney General and
the district court in D.C. that have exclusive
jurisdiction over this set of questions and that we
don't want courts in other part of the country to try to
mimic what those -- what that court and the Attorney
General are supposed to do.
And you're essentially asking for the
district court in the State of Texas to try to predict
what they're going to do and to mimic what they're going
to do. And that's why Justice Alito suggests, well,
look, if we've said that only the district court in D.C.
and the Attorney General should do this, let's wait
until they do it and go from there.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kagan, here's
why we're -- we're not asking the regional court to
mimic the D.C. court's function. We're asking it to
perform correctly the one -- one of the roles that this
Court has always made clear the regional court retains.
And that's to provide temporary relief.
If you look at this Court's decisions that
essentially warn off a regional court from arrogating to
itself the final preclearance decision -- I'm thinking,
for example, of Connor v. Waller -- those same decisions
say: But this is not with prejudice to your ability to
provide temporary relief.
Now, our position is quite simple. If we're
in a situation where the regional court has to provide
temporary relief, then it should apply the same
standards that always apply everywhere to courts issuing
temporary relief.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you're not taking into
account the fact that, as Justice Sotomayor said,
section 5 itself operates as an injunction. And it's an
injunction against the use of an un-precleared plan.
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Kagan, I think we are
taking that into account. I mean -- and I think that's
at the heart of what's going on here. You have to ask
yourself the question: What is the remedy that the
Texas court in this case was trying -- what is the
violation, rather, that the Texas court was trying to
remedy? The Appellees proceed and I think your question
proceeds on the assumption as if the violation is a
section 5 violation. But that's not what motivated the
court's opinion, and you can -- I mean, look at page 96
of the Joint Appendix, where the court specifically
says: Look, Texas has always been clear. They need to
get preclearance. So, this is not about enjoining them
from implementing the plan.
The constitutional violation that's being
remedied here and the only thing that gave the Texas
court any authority is the one person, one vote
violation with the old plans. And so, the --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what they said
they're doing. I mean, I count in the -- about eight
times in the house plan, the State house plan, and
several times in the senate plan where it's clear, and I
think it's fairly clear in the U.S. House plan, they say
things like: "The court began by considering the
uncontested districts from the enacted plan that
embraced neutral districting principles, although it
wasn't required to give any deference." And you say
they're wrong about that. "The court attempted to
embrace as many of the uncontested districts as
possible."
So, after I got finished reading their
opinions, I thought, well, there may be a difference
between what you say and they say, but I'm not sure that
there is a difference that's reflected in the maps.
And so, it's now January 9th. We have to
have something in effect by February 1st. They said
that they're paying attention to what the legislature
did. And when I looked at the maps, as far as I can
tell, they include -- some more, some less, most in the
State senate -- but they include a lot of the State's
changes.
So, what am I supposed to do? I mean, I
can't tell whether you're right or wrong without looking
district by district by district by district. What am I
supposed to do on January 9th?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think on January 9th,
Justice Breyer, you should take another look at El Paso
County. Because I think if you look at El Paso
County --
JUSTICE BREYER: In which -- in which --
MR. CLEMENT: In either the congressional
map or the house map. I think if you look at El Paso
County, what you cannot conclude is that all ---
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What map is that?
MR. CLEMENT: What's that?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What district is that?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, it depends. If we're
looking at the congressional map, I believe it's
district 16 or 17. And that's -- those maps start on
page 1.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. El Paso County in
the original plan I guess was -- like number 16. I've
got it in front of me. And they split it, and it was
split somewhat differently or not. Okay.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I mean, I think you're
understating it. I mean, on the benchmark plan --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, right. It's a
whole --
MR. CLEMENT: -- that was a straight line.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. CLEMENT: On the enacted plan, it was a
different straight line.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Correct.
MR. CLEMENT: And in the court's plan --
JUSTICE BREYER: So -- all right. All
right. Now, why was that wrong? Why is that wrong?
Tell me why it's wrong for them to do that.
MR. CLEMENT: I want to -- I want to say two
reasons why it's wrong, but first I think that really
does answer your premise, which is that all the court
was doing was remedying one person, one vote.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, I didn't say that.
I said, in their way of thinking, they are taking the
map into account. Now, to sit -- the enacted one. If I
disagree with that, I can't disagree at the level of
principle; I have to disagree at the level of particular
districts. That's why I asked you the question. So,
you point to district 16, and I say, very well, tell me
what they did wrong and why? Because, remember, they
are facing a challenge that's based on section 5, part
purpose.
And the district court there said, in the
D.C., you don't survive -- I can't give you a summary
judgment on that; purpose here may have been violated.
All right. Now, you tell me what's wrong
with district 16, which I guess is your strongest case.
That would be helpful.
MR. CLEMENT: No, what I'm -- I'm not saying
it's my strongest case. I'm saying it's illustrative of
the problem. Another thing that's illustrative of the
problem --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But what's was the
problem?
JUSTICE BREYER: Tell me -- tell me what's
the problem?
MR. CLEMENT: The problem is that the court
lost sight of what it was supposed to be doing. It was
supposed to be --
JUSTICE BREYER: What they said they were
doing. They couldn't have lost sight at the level of
generality because at the level of generality they said
we're trying to take into account the map. I'm just
repeating myself.
I want to know what is wrong with the
drawing of district 16, what they did, given that
there's a section 5 challenge based on purpose?
MR. CLEMENT: And what's wrong with it is
because they neither started with the old benchmark plan
and said we're going to solve a one person, one vote
problem, nor did they start with the new legislative
plan and say is. There some violation that allows us to
change that plan? They instead, as they told you, said
that they were on their own drawing an independent map.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. That's --
that's incomplete.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can finish your
-- finish your answer, please, if you can.
MR. CLEMENT: What I was hoping to say is
that they -- they told you they were drawing an
independent map, and what they told you is that they
thought that they were under an affirmative obligation
not to defer to the legislative enactment because it
hadn't been precleared. And the oddity of this -- I
mean, look, you're right. In certain places, they then
turn around and say: But we deferred where we could.
But the oddity of their position is their
first premise, which is the one thing we can't do in
drawing these maps, is look at that -- look at that
un-precleared map. There's no explanation for why -- if
that premise was right, why would it be even a good
thing that they were pointing to the other map.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm not sure
how I understand that, okay? As I looked at one of the
El Paso maps, the enacted map created a antler-type
district, a head and two unconnected antlers on top,
nothing tying them together.
The district court went back to the
benchmark and said this is the benchmark district; now
I'm going to draw the districts around it that fall
naturally, trying to stay within neutral principles of
not dividing up the city more than I have to. And it
came out with another district.
I don't understand what principle, what
legal principle, the district court was violating that
makes what it did with that particular county wrong.
You're saying they should have given deference to an
oddly shaped district that changed a prior benchmark
that's been challenged as having been created
specifically to minimize the Latino vote.
All of the challenges that relate to El Paso
are very significant. The district court has already
denied summary judgment on that. Tell me what legal
principle they violated, other than the deference
principle that you're relying upon?
MR. CLEMENT: The basic principle they
violated is they drew an interim order that they thought
wasn't a remedial order without it being based on any
finding of substantial likelihood of a violation.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's your second --
MR. CLEMENT: You may be right. You may be
right. There may be a problem with those maps in El
Paso. I don't think so, and I'd like to talk about
that.
But if the district court had said, you
know, there's a problem with this because the two - the
two antler -- the deer with two antlers, that violates
-- that's a substantial likelihood of violating the
Constitution. We're going to remedy that. If that's
what they did, this would be a very different case.
Now, I do want to talk about the deer with
two antlers, because what that ignores is that in the
benchmark plan, the deer had one antler and an antenna.
And so, the district court -- the map the district court
drew doesn't look anything like the benchmark, and
actually the map that the legislature drew looks very
much like the benchmark.
And so, I think that just shows that what
was going on here by the district court was something
very different from either remedying a one-person,
one-vote problem with the benchmark or from correcting
specific identified problems with the legislative map.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I had thought, Mr. Clement,
that -- that one of your objections was that in deciding
whether they're using the benchmark or the -- the
legislature's proposed new plan, whichever one they're
using, they -- in drawing up their own plan, they
assumed the validity of all of the challenges.
Is -- is that not the case?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, that is the case, Your
Honor, and that is one of the many problems with the way
that the court proceeded here. Because once you lose
sight of the fact that, look, we only have remedial
authority if we're remedying substantial likelihood of
violations that are identifiable and particular, well,
then what are you going to do?
What this district court did, after he
started where Justice Breyer suggested, is that the
district court judges then said, look, we want to avoid
the challenges that are brought by the plaintiffs. And
what they mean by "avoid" is they basically take all the
allegations at face value and then redraw the district
to avoid this.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: At face value. But you
don't have any problem -- if I'm a district judge and I
think there is a substantial likelihood that a
particular challenge will succeed, you don't have any
problem with my drawing an interim plan to avoid that
likelihood.
MR. CLEMENT: Absolutely no problem at
all --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Thank you.
MR. CLEMENT: -- Justice Kennedy. And the
great thing about that is that gives the district court
a familiar role to play applying familiar standards, and
it gives this Court something to review.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the district court in
that -- in that scenario is projecting what the D.C.
court that has exclusive authority is going to do. And
that's why I find your -- your position troublesome.
You're asking one court to make its best guess at what
another court is likely to do, and that other court has
exclusive jurisdiction.
MR. CLEMENT: Can I -- can I respond to
that, Justice Ginsburg, as follows? Which is, I had
assumed that Justice Kennedy's question was not specific
to section 5 and could just as well be a section 2
problem --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Section 2.
MR. CLEMENT: -- or an equal protection
under the Constitution problem. And in this case, there
is no problem. All the court is doing is making a
substantial likelihood determination of an issue that
it's ultimately going to confront.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But haven't we also said
that, with respect to section 2 and constitutional
violations, that those allegations would be unripe in
the -- prior to the district court or the Attorney
General clearing a plan?
MR. CLEMENT: Absolutely, Justice Kagan.
But I think it's important to understand that to the
extent that the district court in this remedial phase
should take section 5 into account, it's just in
considering whether or not the remedial plan is
consistent with section 5 principles. And that's what
the judges did in this case with respect to their own
plan. So, we're not asking them to do something with
section 5 that they otherwise wouldn't do.
And, again, I think if you come back to the
particular question of what are they trying to remedy --
I mean, they're trying to remedy the one person, one
vote problem. So, if that's what they're trying to
remedy, why wouldn't they take into account the
legislative policy judgments reflected in the
un-precleared plan if that's -- if that's the state
we're in, if that's the snapshot we're in.
I mean, keep in mind, this Court has
throughout --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, just because section 5
says that there's no presumption of regularity attached
to that plan and, indeed, that it's unlawful to put that
plan into effect without the proper approvals.
MR. CLEMENT: Two things, Justice Kagan:
One, I would beg to differ that what section 5 says is
that there's no presumption of regularity. And I think
that's -- it's not just a quibble because I think if
what section 5 says is that there's no presumption of
regularity or no presumption of good faith, then section
5 I think is closer to the constitutional edge than this
Court said in Northwest Austin. I think all it says --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Section 5 says somebody has
to clear it before it can go into effect.
MR. CLEMENT: Absolutely. But I don't think
that means that the assumption is that the legislature
didn't act in good faith in enacting the provision. And
that brings me to my second point --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Nobody said the opposite.
The question just is, does somebody have to clear it?
Here, it wasn't cleared.
MR. CLEMENT: Okay. I agree, but then the
question is, if there's not a presumption of bad faith,
then why wouldn't the court take that legislative
judgment into account in drawing its remedy for the one
person, one vote violation in the remedial district?
If I could add my second point, which is the
other thing to keep in mind is the preclearance
obligation is not driven by congressional judgment that
these covered jurisdictions are particularly bad at
remedying one person, one vote problems.
Obviously, section 5 is driven by concerns
about racial discrimination. So, in that sense, it's
particularly odd, given that what's at issue here is a
remedy for a one person, one vote problem, that you
would assume that you're not going to take into account
the legislature's judgment as reflected in an
un-precleared plan.
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, I don't think that
that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I think
there -- I see two different problems, and I'm not quite
sure how to come out. One, you cannot assume that the
legislature's plan should be treated as if it were
precleared. The district court in Texas cannot assume
or presume what the district court here in D.C. is going
to do.
But, on the other hand, it can't presume it
the other way. In other words, it can't draw its
interim plan assuming that there are going to be these
section 5 violations because that's presuming what the
court's going to do the other way.
So, how do we decide between those two --
you have two wrong choices. How do we end up?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think you try to split
the difference by trying to apply the preliminary
injunction standards. And I think if you do that, then
what you're going to do is that you're going to ensure
that the remedy that the district court draws for -- as
an interim matter for the one person, one vote problem,
which is not the same thing as preclearance, that remedy
is both consistent with the legislative policy judgments
but also with section 2, with the Equal Protection
Clause.
And I suppose if this Court wants to, it can
say that for purposes of interim temporary relief, the
Court can look at section 5 directly. I would think the
better answer is, no, you just focus it on section 2,
the Equal Protection Clause, and then you ensure that
the judicial plan is consistent with section 5
principles, because that's the test that the Court's
going to apply in any event.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you -- can you tell me
with reference to the two districts, other than the
senate district, congressional and State house
districts, did Judge Smith defer or use the -- the Texas
legislature's 2011 plan as a benchmark to some extent?
MR. CLEMENT: I -- I don't think Judge
Smith -- if I can answer your question, I think this
does: I don't think Judge Smith did this the way that
we think he should or focused on the benchmark. If you
look at the congressional plan, what he did is he just
basically picked one of the proposals that was a
bipartisan proposal, so-called C216.
With respect to the house plan, I think he
got it -- the Texas house plan -- I think he got it
closer to right. But I don't think he applied the right
standard. And I would ask you to look at Joint Appendix
193, and particularly his consideration of house
district 33, because there what Judge Smith did is said,
well, you know, there's these allegations, and I find
this -- he said the State has persuasive responses, but
out of an abundance of caution I'm going to redraw the
district.
That doesn't seem quite right. I mean, if
the State really does have persuasive responses, that
ought to be enough to not redraw the district.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So, you would fault his
solution for giving insufficient deference to the State
of Texas 2011 plan?
MR. CLEMENT: That's right, but it's -- it's
certainly a fair improvement over what the district
court majority did.
If I could reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Clement.
Mr. Srinivasan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING AFFIRMANCE IN PART AND VACATUR IN PART
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
The fundamental flaw with Texas's approach
is that it directly inverts the burden established by
section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. Section 5 places
the burden on a covered jurisdiction to show that a
proposed voting change is nondiscriminatory in purpose
and effect, and the change can't go into effect unless
and until the State carries its burden in that regard.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me ask you this:
Suppose that this -- all the facts are the same except
that this is in a State that is not subject to section
5.
Would there be a problem in your view with
what the district -- with what the district court did,
with Judge Smith -- with what Judge Smith did?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, with Judge -- with
what Judge Smith did, I guess in that context,
Justice Kennedy, there wouldn't be a section 5 issue at
all.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.
MR. SRINIVASAN: And all you'd be dealing
with is section 2 or the Equal Protection Clause.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And then we could -- then
there would be no problem with using Texas as a
benchmark, the Texas 2011 as benchmark, as a starting
point?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: As a starting point?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes. Well, I guess what I
would say is this, that in the malapportionment context
what this Court typically has said the district court
should do is to start with a plan that's already in
effect and then modify it according to neutral
districting principles to remove the malapportionment
issue. And that's --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what are neutral
districting principles? Anybody who draws a map faces
at the outset certain legal constraints, constitutional
constraints, restrictions that are imposed by the Voting
Rights Act, maybe some State law restrictions to the
extent they're not inconsistent with Federal law. Once
you've gotten beyond that point, all you have left is
districting policy.
They're policy choices, and there are many
factors that can be taken into account in drawing a map:
how compact you want the districts to be, to what extent
are you going to respect zones of common economic
interests, to what extent are you going to try to
preserve old districts, what about incumbents, what
about party registration? Are you going to try to have
balance or are you going to try to favor one party or
the other? That's all -- those are all questions of
policy.
And the question is, whose -- who makes
those policy decisions? Are they going to be the policy
decisions that were made by the legislature, or are they
going to be the policy decisions made by the district
court? And to say they're going to apply neutral
districting principles is a subterfuge. There is no
such thing.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I guess I would
disagree with you, Justice Alito. I want to make two
preliminary observations on what a district court is
supposed to do in this regard, and then I'll try to walk
through the principles that should guide this inquiry.
The first preliminary observation is what a
district court is not supposed to do, and what a
district court is not supposed to do is to take the
un-precleared plan as a given, because section 5
forecloses it.
Now, what's a district court supposed to do?
It's not at sea, contrary to the underpinning of some of
the arguments made today, because the district court
starts with the last legally enforceable plan, which
after all is the last manifestation of State policies
and priorities. So, you have that as a starting point.
And then it has to modify that plan, of course, to deal
with malapportionment issues and to comply with section
2 and section 5 --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I don't want to
interrupt you too much, but even if you do that, even if
you start with the old plan and then you modify it to
the extent necessary to comply with the Constitution and
statutes, there are still -- I'm sure our computer could
shoot out dozens and dozens of possible maps, and
somebody has to choose among them. Now, what criteria
does a district judge -- does a district court use in
making that choice?
MR. SRINIVASAN: There is discretion in the
inquiry, Justice Alito. I'm not going to -- I'm not
going to disagree with that. What it looks to is the
districting criteria that had been applied by this
jurisdiction in the past. And, for example, in this
case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not just discretion.
It's political discretion. That's what's troublesome
about it. And you -- it seems to me the Government
makes -- takes an absolutist approach to the proposition
that you cannot use an un-precleared plan for any
purpose. All the law says is that you cannot apply a
precleared plan. The plan being applied here is not the
Texas legislature's plan; it's the plan -- a remedial
plan adopted by Federal judges.
And to say that they cannot use in drawing
up that plan the legislature's last political decisions
seems to me not required by the mere prohibition against
implementing that plan as the plan of the legislature.
What would you do if -- if the district
court in Washington and the district court in Texas --
neither one of them acts in time, and it's too late?
It's too late to have any -- any primaries anymore.
What -- what would happen?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I guess --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What would happen? You
can't use the old plan. You have this absolute rule
against using the new plan. What happens? You
disenfranchise every voter in Texas --
MR. SRINIVASAN: No, I don't think you could
do that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- because there may be
some voters in Texas, may be, some who will be
prejudiced by using the current plan? I suggest in that
situation there's nothing to do but use the Texas plan.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I don't -- not in the
context of section 5, Your Honor. It's -- that's one
option, but the other option would be to use a
malapportioned plan, which this Court has suggested
would be something the courts could do. Now, that's not
a preferred option, to be sure.
But we're not in that situation here,
because what you have is interim maps that have been
developed. We're not in the kind of emergency situation
that you're positing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You acknowledge that there
are some situations in which you can use the very plan
that the Texas legislature adopted, even though it's not
been precleared?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Only if there's no time for
a district court to adopt a different plan. But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, it's no longer an
absolute rule. So, the question is whether this is
another reasonable exception to a non-absolute rule.
MR. SRINIVASAN: There is an emergency
exception, as there is with all sorts of legal rules.
But that's so far as we would go.
Now, I would like to address the proposition
that what the Court would be doing here under Texas's
view is just a standard application of substantial
likelihood of success principles, because it's not.
It's decidedly different from standard operation of
substantial likelihood of success principles in three
fundamental respects.
The first goes to the burden,
Justice Kennedy, and I think you alluded to this in your
question. The burden in a preliminary injunction
context stays with the same party at the preliminary
injunction stage as at the merits stage. And so, when
in a preliminary injunction context the court is asking
has there been a substantial likelihood of success on
the merits, the same party has to make that showing as
has to make that showing at the merits stage.
Here Texas would turn that upside down,
because at the merits stage, which is the preclearance
proceeding --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, would it be okay if we
just said, well, Texas has to make the showing?
MR. SRINIVASAN: That would certainly be
better. I think that would improve things quite a bit.
But that's not what Texas -- the approach that Texas
proposes today.
But it's different in two other respects
from a standard preliminary injunction context as well.
And one is what Justice Ginsburg alluded to, which is
here you don't have a situation in which the same court
that's going to forecast its ultimate adjudication of
the merits is also deciding what it's going to do at the
preliminary injunction stage.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's exactly
right, but you see it only on one side of the problem.
You say, well, you can't treat it as if it's been
precleared --
MR. SRINIVASAN: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- because that
would be prejudging what the court in D.C. is going to
do. But you have no trouble with them saying --
assuming that there are going to be these section 5
violations and drawing additional majority-minority
districts, which is just assuming on the other -- the
other way what the court here in D.C. is going to do.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't know how you
-- you lean one way and say, well, it's horrible, you
can't use it because it hasn't been precleared; but it's
all right in drawing the interim plan to treat it as
there -- as if preclearance has been denied.
MR. SRINIVASAN: No, I don't -- I don't know
about that, because I think what a district court is
supposed to do when preclearance is pending is not
accept all the challenges. What it's supposed to do is
to apply traditional districting criteria to the
benchmark. So, I guess --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, do you contest the view
that this district court did essentially accept the
challenges, did sort of say, well, look, there are these
challenges; so, we have to make sure that we don't do
anything that cuts against them?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, there is some
language in the opinions to -- to that effect,
Justice Kennedy. I have to say the district court
opinions here are not a model of clarity. In some
respects, they seem to outline the right inquiry. If
you look at Joint Appendix 137 to 138, I think what the
district court said it was doing was starting with the
status quo, which is the benchmark, and then modifying
it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And if you look --
and if you look at Joint Appendix 146 --
MR. SRINIVASAN: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- to 147, it looks
the exact opposite. It looks like they're drawing
minority coalition opportunity districts to draw them
because they have anticipated how they think the
district court in D.C. is going to come out.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, that's -- that's
right, Mr. Chief Justice, and I think we point to that
in our brief as an area in which the district court
could give further explanation on remand.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You do.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Isn't it odd that this is
a section 2 suit, and yet section 5 seems to be driving
that -- driving it. That's the problem with this
litigation, it seems to me.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think section 5
can't help but drive --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And section 5 applies only
to -- to some States and not others. Texas is at a
tremendous disadvantage here in defending the section 2
suit and in drawing -- and in having -- and the
judiciary is at a disadvantage in -- in framing a remedy
for a likely -- a likely section 2 violation in some of
the districts.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, of course, Your
Honor, Texas is in a different position precisely
because it's a covered jurisdiction. And when you have
a section 5 case, section 5 can't help but take
precedence in some respects, precisely because a
proposed change can't go into effect unless and until
the covered jurisdiction shows that it's
nondiscriminatory in purpose and effect. But I do think
it's important --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I wonder if it
should take precedence in a section 2 suit. That's all
this court -- this is the primary obligation of the
Texas district court, is to address section 2
violations.
MR. SRINIVASAN: That -- that may be, Your
Honor, but I think then if -- if it can't address the
section 5 issue at all, then the one thing that
shouldn't happen is that the section 2 court gives
effect to the un-precleared plan, because that's
something that the D.C. district court is supposed to
do.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it's not giving
effect to the uncleared plan. It's giving effect to a
legislative judgment as to what is workable for all the
factors and criteria that Justice Alito referred to,
county lines, et cetera.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We -- we'll let you
go on for a little longer. We may have a few more
questions.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Okay. Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice. I appreciate that.
I guess what I would say, Justice Kennedy,
is, if you use the un-precleared plan as the starting
point, which is what Texas proposes, you are giving
effect to that, notwithstanding the preclearance
requirement of section 5. And with a covered
jurisdiction, that's something that section 5 doesn't
allow.
Now, I do think it's important to consider
Texas's preclearance submission in the context of the
other statewide preclearance submissions that have been
submitted in this election cycle. If you look at the
Government's brief at pages 1a to 3a, I think what that
bears out is that there's not a fundamental problem with
section 5 or the way section 5 operates. The problem,
insofar as it -- as it exists, is with respect to the
particular submissions that Texas has made, because
there were 20 submissions of statewide plans for
administrative preclearance. In all 20 cases, the
Attorney General precleared them. In 19 of the
20 cases, the Attorney General precleared it within the
initial 60-day window. Now --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I have --
your position -- I understand you're straddling a
position. That's why you're sitting in the back rather
than the front row between the two parties. But it's a
little unsatisfying because what you say we should do
when we are all under the gun of very strict time
limitations is we should send it back to the district
court so it can give a greater explanation of what it's
done.
Isn't that going to be very wasteful? I
mean, it's kind of an odd order from this Court to send
to a district court saying, you know, tell us more.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I don't know that it
is, Your Honor, and I have two -- two responses in that
respect.
First -- and this goes to a question that
Justice Alito asked earlier. What is this Court
supposed to do in this situation? And I think one thing
that could absolutely happen is if there were a remand,
the D.C. district court could complete its preclearance
proceeding, which would be very illuminating for the
what the Texas district court is supposed to do.
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you have an idea of
when?
MR. SRINIVASAN. And by way of guidance on
that, what I would --
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you have -- what is that
based on?
MR. SRINIVASAN: What I would say is this:
The D.C. district court has scheduled trial to begin on
January 17th. It's supposed to last 8 days. Closing
argument is on February 3rd. If you look at what
happened at the summary judgment stage, Justice Breyer,
they had summary judgment arguments on one day; 6
days later, they --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I read -- I read -- I
read the opinion and what she said on the phone and so
forth.
MR. SRINIVASAN: No, not that.
JUSTICE BREYER: It seems to me that it's a
complicated case. Let's suppose you're completely right
on your time schedule. Then they'll decide something.
How could any human being redraw maps in 5 days or 10
days where you'll have different -- six different
positions? I mean, I think it's impossible. How can
you -- I don't see how you could do it.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, of course, if
preclearance is granted, we -- we won't have an issue
with drawing maps.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I think there's -- it
seemed to me from reading it, I -- I didn't think that
the judge there is ready to grant preclearance.
MR. SRINIVASAN: And we --
JUSTICE BREYER: But the other thing in
sending it back, I read the brief, and then I read the
opinions. I don't think I have -- I'm not being too
generous to the opinions, but I thought what they were
saying throughout is we didn't try to draw extra
coalition or extra opportunity districts; they emerged.
They say "emerged" about seven times. They emerged as
we tried to apply equal vote principles. And it's
hardly surprising that it would, considering that the
population growth is primarily due to the minority
expansion.
So, they didn't seem to me -- now, why do
you want us to send it back to get more explanation when
that seems to be the explanation, and to me at first
blush, it seems like a perfectly good explanation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe a brief
answer. Thank you.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes. Sure. I think it's
if -- insofar as the coalition districts and ability-to
districts emerge from natural growth, there's nothing
suspect about them. The one example I point to is
district 33. If you look at Joint Appendix, pages 146
to 147, it's not clear what the -- what the district
court was doing in that regard.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Garza.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSE GARZA
ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLEES
MR. GARZA: Mr. Chief Judge, and may it
please the Court:
There seems to be general consensus on at
least three points that we've talked about today.
First, that the un-precleared plan cannot take effect.
The second, that the district court is foreclosed from
entering and engaging in an analysis of the issues that
are pending before the three-judge court in the --
Washington, D.C., and that at this point, a
court-ordered plan must be implemented on an interim
basis.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Exclude me from the second.
I'm not sure that -- that I've gone along on that, as
you phrased it. The way you phrase it, you say they
cannot even make the kind of preliminary inquiry that --
that your friend suggests.
MR. GARZA: I think we're dealing with a
matter of semantics, Your Honor, because the question
is, did the court give the -- the State's plan
deference? But it itself said that it began, as it
should, as it has been directed by this Court, with the
historical or benchmark configurations and then
respected the State's plan.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you know what I don't
understand about your briefs, Mr. Garza, is if the State
can't -- if the plan has not been precleared, you should
be saying the State can't look at the plan. But on the
one hand, you're saying, well, isn't it great because
the court did look at the plan, and on the one hand --
on the other hand you're saying the court can't look at
the plan. So, which is it? Because there's a real
tension. On one page, you say isn't it great the court
looked at the Texas plan. And then you say the court
can't look at the Texas plan.
MR. GARZA: We don't say that the court
can't look at the Texas plan. What we say is that the
-- the court can't implement the Texas plan, and it
certainly can't implement the Texas plan if there is any
suspect of discrimination. And what it did was exactly
the right measure.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Then you're saying the
court should look at the merits.
MR. GARZA: I think that the court did the
appropriate thing by looking at the -- at those maps.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. Let -- let's go to
-- something Justice Scalia asked was what does a court
do with frivolous claims? Does it assume under your
theory that those frivolous claims are valid? And if
you say no, it shouldn't assume that, then what level of
inquiry should the court engage in before it accepts or
deviates from the enacted plan?
MR. GARZA: I think that the court should
look at -- first of all, should not start with the
State's plan. It should look at where there have been
objections made. And the role of the district court in
the District of Columbia is where the question of
whether there are frivolous claims have been made. And
there have been no motions to dismiss any of the claims
in Washington, D.C., based on frivolity.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, the Texas court
cannot -- should automatically accept all -- that every
district that a challenge has been raised in the D.C.
circuit court is --
MR. GARZA: It should --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- court is okay?
MR. GARZA: It should not accept any of the
districts that have been challenged. But I think the
difference in terms of --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. I'm
not -- I didn't --
MR. GARZA: -- is it assuming a violation --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't mean to
interrupt, but I didn't follow that. So long as a
district has been challenged in D.C., the court in Texas
should not accept it?
MR. GARZA: It shouldn't make a
determination either way, and it didn't, because in
those districts, it didn't adopt the plans that were put
forward by the plaintiffs or the challengers in
Washington, D.C.; it looked at the benchmark plan as a
starting point.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But could it -- could it
look at the district and say, well, it respects county
lines; it follows a river; it's got urban and rural.
Could it look at it for that reason?
MR. GARZA: What it --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And rely on the
legislative judgment as making a sound judgment that the
river runs through here, and the county line is there
and so forth? That's -- that's what seems to me the
difficulty with saying, oh, you can't look at the plan.
MR. GARZA: I think the problem with that,
Your Honor, is that then it would be assuming that the
State is correct, that it doesn't violate section 5.
That is -- that is an inquiry that's reserved to the
district court in the District of Columbia. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that's right,
but -- but it goes the other way when you say they can't
approve something that's been challenged. Aren't you
assuming that the plaintiffs are right?
MR. GARZA: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that's an
inquiry that belongs to the district court in D.C.
MR. GARZA: No, because what the court did
is it didn't accept as a remedy what the plaintiffs
proposed there. It reverted to State policy, which is
what it's directed to do by this Court. It -- it went
back to State policy, and it looked at the benchmark
plan, and it started with the benchmark plan. Even with
the congressional plan, where there are four new
districts, and there is no comparable district in the
benchmark, it looked to the legislatively enacted plan
to determine where it would place those districts.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that is not the current
State policy. The benchmark plan is gone. It's old.
The Texas legislature now has a different policy, and
that, you say, should be ignored.
MR. GARZA: That policy cannot be deferred
to. It is incorporated in the court's plan by -- in the
manner in which it did review the plans. That is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, what's -- there's a
presumption of its invalidity. You can't presume it
valid, but you can presume it invalid.
MR. GARZA: Either way. And, in fact, what
the court did is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, not either way.
You're presuming it invalid.
MR. GARZA: It -- you -- you're not
presuming it is invalid. You're -- you're suggesting
that -- you're reverting to the next State policy.
You're not incorporating it, but you're not -- you're
not making any decisions. And the way you sort of walk
that tightrope is you go to what the State policy was
before the enacted plan.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let's say -- let's say
a legislature says we have a new policy, and that is
that once we've satisfied our constitutional obligations
and our obligations under the Voting Rights Act, the
only thing we're going to do is try to draw the
districts that are the most compact possible,
compactness over everything else.
They draw up a plan that embodies that
policy, and it's challenged under section 5. Now, can
the district court just say, well, that's -- the State's
policy is compactness over everything else, but we don't
agree with that, because we have other neutral
principles that advance the interest of the collective
public good, which is the term that this -- the words
that this court used. Can they do that?
MR. GARZA: I don't believe they can, and
this court didn't. The court, in fact --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if they can't do that,
then you're saying that they are constrained by State
policy, except to the extent the Constitution or the
Voting Rights Act requires otherwise.
MR. GARZA: And in this case, part of the
Voting Rights Act is section 5, and in those areas and
in those districts where there have been challenges --
and by the way the district court has -- in the District
of Columbia has determined that those challenges are
substantial because they've denied preclearance, and, in
fact, they've said that Texas has not disputed --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They denied summary
judgment. They didn't deny preclearance.
MR. GARZA: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They denied summary
judgment.
MR. GARZA: They denied summary judgment,
but they went even further. They -- they said Texas has
not disputed many of the intervenors' specific
allegations of discriminatory intent. So, it's -- it's
-- and under the summary judgment standard, they have to
find that the challenges that are being made are
substantial.
The district court in Texas was not free to
incorporate discriminatory districts in its interim
plan, and it didn't. But it first went to the State's
plan, the benchmark plan, to begin its process on how it
was drawing those districts.
And there's a good reason why Texas is
covered under the Voting Rights Act. As this Court
indicated in -- in LULAC v. Perry, there's a terrible
history of historical discrimination in Texas, including
discrimination in 2006.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The
constitutionality of the Voting Rights Act isn't at
issue here, right?
MR. GARZA: That's not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Maybe you
could turn for a moment to the issue that I see on Joint
Appendix 146 and 147. They don't say a minority
coalition opportunity district just happened to emerge.
It said that district 33 was drawn as a minority
coalition opportunity district. And we've never held
that it is appropriate or even permissible to draw a
district where you're putting in together two
minorities, two different minority groups. And it seems
to me that that raises all sorts of different concerns.
It's one thing under the Voting Rights Act
to say that this group votes as a bloc and has been
discriminated against in its ability to elect
representatives of its choice. It's another thing to
say that two different minority groups are put together
because they share some particular view so that one
candidate is going to be each of theirs candidate --
candidates of choice. That goes quite a step further
from what we've upheld under the Voting Rights Act. And
here you have the district court creating that in the
absence of any State expression of a desire to create
that type of -- of district.
MR. GARZA: I think -- I think that the
statement that the court made is a correct statement.
It did create a coalition district in Dallas. But
that's not describing how it reached that -- that
district.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, it is. It
says --
MR. GARZA: Where it describes how it
reached that district is in a number of other places;
however, as discussed above, the court has not
intentionally created any minority districts.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: New district 33 was
drawn as a minority coalition opportunity district. I
don't see how that can be read any way other than
saying -- saying when we sat down and drew it, we drew
this one as a minority coalition opportunity district.
MR. GARZA: Of course, it can be read
differently than Your Honor's interpretation of this,
because the court has said over and over again we did
not attempt to create coalition districts; we did not
attempt to draw minority majority --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. When you
say something can be read differently than that and say
because they said something else somewhere else, that's
not responsive.
MR. GARZA: What I'm -- what I'm suggesting
is what he's saying is that this is the result of what
they've done. That sentence can also be interpreted as
saying this is the result of what we -- we've done. We
have created a minority opportunity --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Drawn as? Drawn as --
MR. GARZA: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- a coalition?
MR. GARZA: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: What he says two sentences
before, if I can be helpful to read it, the fourth new
district, district 33, was drawn in the Dallas-Fort
Worth Metroplex "to reflect population growth in that
area." All right?
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Then he goes on to say just
what Justice Scalia says.
And I -- I did read that as saying, well,
when you apply -- I read it consistent what they've said
in -- elsewhere, which is that what they're doing is
population grows; you have to have one person, one vote;
the legislature itself in the new plan did create a
minority, whatever you -- the opportunity district here;
so, we're following what they did; we're taking into
account population, and it turns out to be, and we do
create it as -- in which case there is some ambiguity
here.
MR. GARZA: Precisely. And there's no
independent evidence that this was a racial gerrymander.
What do courts look at for evidence of racial
gerrymanders? Split-voting precincts where you go out
and carve and bring in minority voters. This district
maintains voting precincts intact. It is entirely
within one county. It is a compact district, especially
when you compare it to the district in that part of the
State --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Why --
why do you care -- why do they care then that it was
drawn as a minority coalition opportunity district?
You're saying they didn't do that at all. They just
followed precinct lines and everything else. Why would
they say something?
MR. GARZA: I believe it's describing what
the result of their map drawing is, and I think that's
perfectly legitimate.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can we infer from either
the ambiguity or -- or the other reading of the sentence
that the Chief Justice suggested that, in the court's
view, it was desirable to have a minority coalition
district? I draw that inference.
MR. GARZA: I think -- I think it is
desirable to have a minority district there.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: A minority coalition
district?
MR. GARZA: A minority coalition district.
Moreover, I think the court is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. So, you would
defend the plan on the ground that this is a sound
result?
MR. GARZA: I believe that the plan that was
drawn by the court is fair. Is it the optimum plan that
the plaintiffs wanted? It is not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: One of -- one of the basic
rules that -- that was followed in drawing up the court
plan was not to divide any voting districts, right?
MR. GARZA: That's one of the principles.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? Why did the -- that
certainly is not a principle that the Texas legislature
agrees with.
MR. GARZA: There's two reasons, Your Honor.
One is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, the court just made it
up?
MR. GARZA: No. There are two reasons why
the court saw maintaining voting precincts as important.
One is because that is what it's been directed by this
Court in Bush v. Vera. In Bush v. Vera, the Court said
we have an interim election or a -- or an impending
election, and it's important for elections
administrators in -- in order to be able to -- to
implement without -- without interference a legitimate
election process, to have whole precincts because whole
precincts makes a big difference in terms of how the
election is -- is administrated.
The second reason is that this court didn't
adopt this plan without any inquiry into the standards
and proposals from the parties. It was very deliberate.
It was very cautious, and it was very open. We had 3
days of hearings on what these plans should look like
and what the standards ought to be, including testimony
from elections administrators and from the Texas
Secretary of State.
And in every instance, those administrators
and that representative from the Secretary of State said
the most important thing that the court should consider,
if it's going to order us to start conducting elections
under a different plan, is maintain voting precincts
because that is the most cumbersome part.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if Texas says we don't
care about maintaining voting precincts; this is -- this
is a matter of -- of administrative burden and expense,
and we're willing to bear that, so disregard that, the
district court can say, well, we think -- we disagree
with you; in order to make it more convenient to hold
the election and less expensive for Texas, we're going
to respect voting districts. They can do that?
MR. GARZA: The State didn't do that in this
instance, number one.
JUSTICE ALITO: But could they do that?
MR. GARZA: And --
JUSTICE ALITO: Could the district court do
that? That's my question.
MR. GARZA: It -- yes, I think they could
because there's still the authority of this Court in
Bush v. Vera that directs courts, in drawing interim
plans for impending elections, to -- to be cautious
about that, number one. And, number two, if in fact in
order to get an appropriate map, you must split a number
of precincts, which means then that you can't conduct
the election on April 3rd, we still have time. As -- as
the Government's attorney indicated, the -- there are
States that conduct primaries as late as June 26th. The
drop-dead deadline is not April 3rd; it's November 6th.
So, if this Court disagrees with our
position and is determined to send this back to the
district court, then it should consider this: The
district court in the District of Columbia is about
30 days away from rendering a complete decision in the
section 5 case. That would place the court in Texas in
exactly the Upham circumstance. In that circumstance --
and the court is poised to move. It can move with all
due diligence. It had 2 weeks of trial in which it
heard testimony on the plaintiffs' claims. It's -- it
is -- it is ready.
Once the district court in the District of
Columbia tells us these are the problems with the
State's plan, the court in Texas is primed to make its
decision on the plaintiffs' claims under section 2 and
the Constitution. In that circumstance --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garza, what's the
real drop-dead date? It's not November 6th because
that's the day of the general election. What's the
latest election -- primary election that any State has?
June 26th?
MR. GARZA: June 26th, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So, working
backwards, what's the last --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that's for
presidential primaries, isn't it? I don't want to
interrupt, but isn't that the date of the last
presidential primary rather than congressional?
MR. GARZA: That's correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes.
MR. GARZA: So, Utah is the last -- is the
State with the last primary in which it conducts both
the State's primary and the presidential. There are in
-- in fact, States that conduct primaries as late as
September that have no presidential primary at all.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, how many days before
that election do -- does the voting mechanism or
apparatus need to set up the voting booths, et cetera?
MR. GARZA: The -- the critical date is
45 days from the election in order to ensure -- sending
out a ballot to overseas voters, including the military.
So, if you -- if you go back 45 days and then you give
the jurisdiction sufficient time to develop a ballot,
because you need a ballot to send to the -- to the
soldiers, then that's about what they've -- what the
testimony was, is that takes about 90 days, I believe,
is what they testified. So, 45 days plus 90 days, and
that's the drop-dead deadline.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Go back from June 26th.
Where does -- where does that leave us?
MR. GARZA: If you go back from June 26th --
JUSTICE SCALIA: June, May, April. It's the
end of March. Right?
MR. GARZA: You could develop a plan by the
end of March. And we could conduct an election in June,
in late June.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And when do you expect the
D.C. court to finish?
MR. GARZA: I would expect it to finish
by -- within 30 days of today because we have closing
arguments on -- on the 3rd of February, and if the court
has -- will act with the sort of diligence that it did
on summary judgment, which was a complicated record and
a large record -- 6 days later, it made its
determination. It didn't issue its memorandum opinion,
but it gave us something that we could run with.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When -- so, when do
you --
MR. GARZA: So, that would be --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And when do you
expect our decision on the appeal from the district
court in D.C.?
(Laughter.)
MR. GARZA: Later this afternoon.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They did write in a -- in
their summary judgment opinion, they made it sound like
it's very complicated.
MR. GARZA: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so, that's why I'm --
I have some doubts about how swiftly they're going to
render their decision after -- what is the date? The
trial will end on February 3rd?
MR. GARZA: That will be closing arguments.
Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there anything in the
opinion from the three-judge court in the District of
Columbia that indicates that there are some likely
potential violations that are section 2 violations as
well as section 5 violations?
MR. GARZA: From the -- from the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and I can amend
that to -- and in the submission of the parties?
MR. GARZA: In the District of Columbia?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
MR. GARZA: Well, I believe that the -- that
the court has found that the -- the plaintiffs have made
substantial claims with regard to retrogression and
intentional discrimination. And, of course, intentional
discrimination --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The second -- the second
being section 2 violations as well.
MR. GARZA: Intentional discrimination is a
component of section 2. Yes, Your Honor.
And it -- and I think it's important to note
that Judge Smith in Texas used, in a manner of speaking,
the preliminary injunction standard that's being
advocated by the State, and they would not be able to
meet that standard because, generally, Judge Smith
determined that the plaintiffs had presented colorable
claims of statutory or constitutional infirmity, ruled
that the plan was an extreme gerrymander, ruled that
elimination of district 149 presented section 5
problems, ruled that the legislature dismantled a
minority district in Nueces County that presented
section 5 --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you have substantive
objections to the plans suggested by Judge Smith in the
house and congressional districts?
MR. GARZA: Yes, Your Honor. We believe
that there are section 5 claims with regard to Harris
County. Judge Smith addressed the constitutional --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh -- no, do you have some
section 2 objections? Well, that doesn't quite work.
You have to talk about retrogression, I suppose.
MR. GARZA: Right. And in -- in district --
in Harris County, the court did equalize population per
the failure of the State to justify the sorts of
deviations that are contained in that district but
didn't provide, in our opinion, additional remedies.
But Judge Smith's proposed plan for the
State house is in fact very similar to the plan that was
proposed by the majority. It -- it differs by only one
minority district. That is, one additional minority
district is contained in the interim plan than is
contained in Judge Smith's plan.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Garza, what would you
think of a system in which the court could start with
the Texas plan and say -- the new Texas plan and say
anything that's consistent with statutes and the
Constitution can go forward, but it's Texas that has to
show that consistency? So, flipping the burden of proof
in the way that Mr. Srinivasan was suggesting? In a way
that makes it more consistent --
MR. GARZA: Right. Right.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- with section 5's burden.
MR. GARZA: Well, I -- I think that our
position is that section 5 is clear that this court
should not start with the interim plan, but if the Court
disagrees with me, I think that that's a much more
reasonable approach than the one offered by the State,
for the same reason argued by the United States. That
is, that in the State's argument, you really turn
section 5 on its head because one of the principal
benefits for the minority community in having section 5
is it alters of the burden of proof. And if you
maintain the burden of proof on the State before it can
implement any portion of its newly adopted but
un-precleared plan, that's far more preferable than
shifting the burden, which would be inconsistent with
section 5 in its intent.
I don't think I have anything else.
(Laughter.)
MR. GARZA: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't think we do,
either. Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Clement, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS
MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Just a few points in rebuttal. As one of
Justice Alito's questions highlighted, one of the things
that makes remedying a one person, one vote problem
particularly unique is there's literally an infinite
number of ways to solve the problem. And for that
reason, this Court has always looked wherever it could
to legislative guidance, so much so that in White v.
Weiser, this Court looked for legislative guidance to a
plan that had been declared unconstitutional for failing
to accommodate one person, one vote problems, but yet
this Court still said that the district court erred in
not taking that into account to the extent that it
could.
As to the hard choice, if it comes to that,
of using either the legislative plan that reflects the
legislative will or the judicial plan that even the
United States concedes is flawed, I think this Court has
faced even more difficult choices in the past: Bullock
v. Weiser and in Whitcomb. And in both of those cases,
this Court chose between an adjudicatedly
unconstitutional State plan and a judicial remedy that
it determined was flawed. And in both cases, it ordered
the election to take place under the flawed
constitutionally adjudicated imperfect plan.
Compared to that, simply saying that an
election should go forward under a plan that hasn't been
precleared is a far less serious step.
Now, there was a reference made to the 3
days of hearings. But the problem is, 3 days of
hearings with an unadministrable standard is worse than
1 day of hearing with an unadministrable standard. And
what we ask is for a preliminary injunction standard
that's familiar to everybody, everybody understands, and
everybody can apply.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why shouldn't it be
inverted the way your friend suggests?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I'll join everybody in
saying that that's -- that's better than the -- than the
worst alternative I face, which is to say it's better
than the district court's opinion.
But here's why it shouldn't: That actually
further intrudes on the D.C. court because the question
that the remedial court should not be asking is, geez,
do I really think -- you know, what are the odds that
the D.C. court is going to preclear? It shouldn't ask
that question at all. It should ask the questions that
are before it. Is there a section 2 violation? Is
there an equal protection violation? If there aren't
those and I use the State's plan, does that create a
section 5 violation?
That's different from the preclearance
question. And on that section 5 question, the burden is
not logically on the State. And that's the same section
5 question that the court considered on its own motion,
because it understands that even when it takes a plan,
it has to be consistent with section 5 principles.
Now, Justice Kennedy, you've asked the
question, what if we take section 5 out of this, what
happens? Then it's an easy case. Then it's the
preliminary injunction standard. Now, the objection to
that, of course, is, well, but how can you take section
5 out of it? But there's not interference with section
5 because Texas still understands it needs to get
preclearance. Before its changes can take permanent
effect, it absolutely, positively needs preclearance.
It's never wavered from that recognition. So, you go
back -- I'll --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish the sentence.
MR. CLEMENT: Okay. Well, I was simply
going to say if you go back, the default problem here is
that there's an infinite number of solutions. It's
particularly a problem with respect to the congressional
map, where there's now four new seats. There's nothing
else to defer to than the judgment of the legislature
reflected in this plan, notwithstanding that it hasn't
been precleared.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
All counsel, I appreciate the extraordinary
efforts you had over the holiday season. Thank you very
much.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 2:08 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
adjudication 28:18 32:18 35:14 attention 15:4
68:6 administrative answer 5:9 57:22 23:14 40:11,12
56:9,20,22 answers 9:13 approved 5:18 authority 4:16
24:24 46:22 56:15 anticipated April 9:16,19 14:9 21:20
67:12 adopted 32:23 37:17 57:24 58:2 22:20 57:18
46:5,10 affirmance 2:12 antler-type argued 64:4 22:4,9
47:24 3:8 28:19 19:11 argument 2:4
agree 25:6 49:15 apparatus 59:15 64:5,20 23:25 40:16,20
12:4,6 agrees 55:23 appeals 10:22 31:18 41:22 48:2 58:4
17:1 AL 1:4,7,12,15 APPEARAN... 60:13 61:11 59:19 60:1,3
23:19 1:20,23 2:6 arose 10:18 67:14,17
25:9,20 Alito 8:24 9:12 Appellants 1:5 arrogating 13:4 Background
54:4 10:3 12:18 1:13,21 2:8 3:4 arsenal 4:18 10:21
30:6 31:7,25 3:15 4:8 64:21 asked 17:4 41:5 backwards 59:1
41:5 49:4,21 3:12 7:11 asking 5:15,16 balance 28:13
49:7,24 59:2 Appendix 14:3 12:15,23,24 ball 7:18
51:5 Alito's 64:24 27:22 37:7,12 22:22 23:23 ballot 59:18,20
52:1 allegations 22:3 43:13 51:10 35:3 66:15 59:21
23:13 27:25 application assume 10:22 based 17:7 18:8
alluded 34:24 apply 13:11,12 assuming 26:9 8:5 22:2 27:17
38:24 alternative 31:3 32:20 47:12,19 bear 57:6
66:11 36:20 42:24 assumption 9:16 bears 40:5
55:1 appreciate attempt 52:24 44:14
4:8 28:18 64:8,9,12 50:2,4,17 6:4 7:1,10 8:9 complete 41:8
64:21 66:24 change 18:14 9:12 10:13,20 58:7
54:22 57:19 changed 19:24 13:18 15:13,18 complicated
59:23 changes 11:4 15:22,24 16:7 42:4 60:15
62:22 C 15:8 67:11 16:11,13,16,20 61:5
16:8 51:24 28:14,21 35:23 21:9,16 22:11 component 62:6
19:15,15 candidates 36:3,11 37:11 22:14,25 23:6 computer 32:4
20:24 51:25 37:14,20,23 23:16 24:14,24 concede 5:11
care 54:17,17 39:13,17 40:14 25:6 26:14 concedes 65:14
29:20 57:4 43:7,16,20 27:12 28:10,15 concerns 25:16
36:21 carries 29:3 46:13,16 47:16 64:19,20,22 51:17
44:16 carve 54:11 47:21 51:4,8 66:9 67:16 conclude 15:20
48:2,3,6 case 4:4 9:11 52:10,16 53:1 closer 24:20 conduct 57:23
50:22 10:18 12:5 54:16 55:2 27:21 58:1 59:11
66:10,11 38:15 42:4 51:21,25 65:11 42:22 43:10 conducts 59:9
16:3 certain 19:1 46:1,2 58:12 50:4 58:6,15 67:19
30:8 58:17 61:25 61:15,21 Connor 13:6
17:21 certainly 28:11 62:13,23 come 23:25 26:2 consensus 43:22
21:24 35:12 45:7 clarity 37:5 37:18 consider 39:25
55:22 Clause 26:23 comes 65:11 56:24 58:5
cetera 39:12 27:3 29:17 common 7:22 consideration
59:15 clear 5:6 8:18 30:17 27:23
43:7 18:8 22:8 46:6 13:1 14:4,14 compact 30:16 considering
63:17,21 42:10 52:21 55:10,15,18 Dallas 52:7 20:4 36:15
62:1 67:8 56:1,4,6,6,14 Dallas-Fort 50:5,7,10,12
23:7 5:14,22 6:6,9 58:8,10,14,16 59:4,16 61:9 deny 7:7,17,21
49:23 6:12,22 7:1,6 60:10,13,24 DAVIS 1:15 8:16,17 11:2
63:18 7:12,15,16,21 61:14,24 63:4 day 41:22 58:21 50:8
14:7 8:25 9:5 10:6 65:3,5,8,8,14 days 41:19,23 2:10 8:10
24:20 10:14,16,22,23 65:17 66:14,15 42:6,7 56:18 11:14
49:6 11:11,17,19,20 66:17 67:1 58:7 59:13,17 depends 15:24
11:23 12:1,2 courts 10:17 59:19,23,24,24 Deputy 2:9
12:23 13:1,1,4 33:23 54:9 66:1 describing 52:8
14:3,9,16,20 court's 12:24 59:25 desirable 55:3,6
19:14,21 20:3 16:16 26:11 dealing 29:16 determination
21:5,18,23,25 55:2 66:12 decide 26:12 46:21 60:17
22:22,23,23 44:4 decidedly 34:20 determined 50:4
35:1,3 26:4,5,18,24 39:22 50:25 decision 9:1 develop 59:20
40:1 27:1 28:12,21 create 52:3,7,24 10:15 11:18 60:6
52:6 34:17 35:3,19 criteria 32:6,12 31:1,2 32:25 difference 14:24
36:4,9,17,23 36:20 39:11 49:1 15:1 26:15
40:14 40:25 41:5,8 57:2 defend 55:12 26:1 34:9,20
64:18 41:10,18 43:15 curiae 2:11 3:8 defending 38:7 35:16 38:13
68:1 43:21,25 44:2 28:18 defer 7:25 18:24 42:7,7 48:10
16:3 45:24 46:4,7,9 cycle 40:3 19:23 20:5 52:22 53:2
39:12 46:18 47:15,22 C216 27:18 28:8 44:14 differs 63:10
54:13 47:23 48:1,19 deferred 19:2 difficult 65:15
63:4 49:13,18,20,20 D 48:12 difficulty 47:10
38:12 52:2,6,14,23 4:7 64:20 denied 7:24 8:23 60:14
56:5 34:9 36:17,23 dozens 32:5,5 early 9:6,23 10:4 14:17
38:24 39:6 19:16 26:8 economic 30:17 19:11 45:20
43:14,25 45:24 52:25 55:4 11:21 15:3 enactment
31:7 47:2,15,15,22 7:15 18:7,15 29:2 30:3 37:3 enforceable
57:7 48:5 49:13 18:21 19:5 38:17,19 39:5 31:19
51:11,12,13,15 25:9 30:15 43:24 67:12 engaging 44:1
52:16,17,20 37:15 38:8 efforts 68:2 ensure 26:17
54:11,13,14,18 54:23 55:18 either 10:4 entering 44:1
45:8 57:15 58:5,6,6 drawn 4:11 5:6 46:21 48:18,20 entire 8:8
62:1,2,5 58:14,14 60:23 5:7 8:13 10:5 54:25 64:18 entirely 54:12
62:17 63:3,6 53:10,10,16 El 15:14,15,19 equal 23:6 26:22
districting 14:18 30:7 elect 51:20 equalize 63:4
32:12 36:20 21:2 52:19,19 40:3 56:7,8,11 especially 54:13
8:25 9:5 19:16 27:8,10 drop-dead 58:2 elections 9:24 13:4 36:23
11:23 30:16,19 36:8 58:20 59:25 56:8,20,25 established
37:16 38:11 due 43:1 58:11 57:20 28:23
42:22 43:10,11 D.C 1:25 2:7,10 eliminate 9:10 et 1:4,7,12,15,20
16:1 46:11,22 48:5 7:1,21 8:15 elimination 1:23 39:12
18:7 48:7 49:9 50:2 11:10 12:10,19 62:15 59:15
50:20,23 52:15 12:24 17:10 embodies 49:11 event 27:6
20:3 52:24 55:19 22:19 26:5 embrace 14:21 everybody 66:5
57:10 62:21 36:4,9 37:18 embraced 14:18 66:5,6,9
divide 6:20 39:6 41:8,18 emerge 43:11 evidence 54:8,9
55:19 44:3 46:3,6,18 51:11 exact 11:25
25:10 dividing 19:18 46:24 47:22 emerged 42:22 37:15
27:9 doing 14:12 60:10,24 66:14 42:23,23 exactly 35:23
28:3,6 16:23 17:24 66:17 emergency 34:2 45:8 58:9
29:9,9 18:2 23:8 34:13 example 11:19
31:2,8,12 34:17 37:8 E emphasized 13:6 32:13
43:15 53:24 E 3:1 4:1,1 6:13 43:12
25:7 63:18 65:23 8:7 11:11,18 26:11,17,17
22:20,24 22:16 66:5 fourth 53:15 43:22 58:21 30:25 31:2,3
February 9:17 frivolity 46:3 gerrymander 56:25 57:9
60:13 61:10 45:17 46:1 gerrymanders 67:17
37:22 find 22:21 27:25 fundamental 22:18 23:1 gotten 9:14
43:4,5,6 50:17 28:22 34:22 35:18 50:7,10 30:12
27:11 fine 6:18 50:13 51:25 8:19,22 11:3,3 Government's
finish 18:18,19 66:14 11:5,8 14:19 40:4 57:25
49:23 60:10,11 67:15 future 10:18 17:10 37:22 GOVERNOR
finished 14:23 40:21 44:13 1:3,11,19
34:23 41:4 Garza 2:13 3:11 19:23 25:18 granted 42:11
44:11,19 45:4 gives 22:15,17 great 22:15
65:20 47:5,11,20,23 39:9,20 ground 7:22
48:18 followed 54:20 53:5,11,13 45:14 49:2 growth 43:1,11
50:6 55:18 54:7,22 55:5,9 54:10 59:19 53:17
59:11 following 11:4 55:14,20,24 60:1,3 63:18 guess 16:4 17:13
54:3 56:3 57:11,14 65:23 67:13,17 22:22 29:12,24
47:3 59:6,8,16 60:3 47:17 51:25 36:21 39:18
identifiable 30:19 64:1 17:11 20:4
41:7 identified 21:8 18:15,22 54:8 52:22 39:10 41:21,22
ignore 6:22,25 57:25 interrupt 32:1 50:12,16 60:15
67:6 ignored 48:11 infer 54:25 intervenors judgments 24:5
41:9 67:18 invalid 48:17,21 4:18 6:15 27:4
17:16,17 inform 6:8,14 invalidity 48:16 judiciary 38:9
45:7 56:10 35:17,22 62:9 29:13 30:5 12:11 22:24
14:6 33:2 47:14,22 56:15 issuing 13:12 25:14
23:17 38:20 43:10 4:9,21,25 5:5
56:24 62:7 57:12 January 2:1 7:10 8:4,9,10
33:20 improve 35:13 64:13 Joint 14:3 27:22 14:11 15:14,17
39:2 improvement intentional 62:1 37:7,12 43:13 15:21,23 16:3
44:12 28:11 62:1,5 51:9 16:9,12,15,17
55:24 include 15:6,7 intentionally JOSE 2:13 3:11 16:24 17:19,21
61:12 including 51:2 52:15 43:18 18:1,16,18
56:19 59:18 interest 49:16 judge 5:9 11:25 19:9 20:11
15:19 incorporate interim 4:15 7:9 43:20 62:8,11 25:3,23,25
50:20 7:13,15 20:8 62:20,24 63:8 27:7 28:7,14
63:9 incorporated 22:9 26:9,19 63:13 28:21 29:4,13
33:9 27:7 28:7 29:4 21:2 24:25 45:11,22,23 21:2,8 30:7,15
34:4,10 29:13,15,18,23 31:1 33:2 34:6 47:2,4,10 54:9 54:23 57:22
35:10,18 34:24 37:4,24 48:10 49:5 56:18 67:20
36:3,11 38:5,21 39:8 54:1 55:22 looked 15:5 maps 4:11,15,15
37:4,11 39:18 47:1,6 62:16 67:21 19:10 45:2 4:22 5:1,7,12
54:25 55:7,11 legislature's 46:24 48:2,6 5:12 6:16,17
39:8 61:13,19,22 21:12 25:21 65:3,5 7:13,15 15:1,5
62:3,19,25 26:3 27:11 looking 15:10,25 16:1 19:5,11
41:5,11 67:4 32:22,25 45:13 20:13 32:5
Kennedy's 23:2 legitimate 54:24 looks 21:2 32:11 34:1 42:6,12
kind 34:2 40:24 56:10 37:14,15 45:13
44:6 44:9 let's 7:21 8:25 lose 21:18 March 9:19 60:5
45:10,14 knew 11:20 12:20 42:4 lost 4:13 17:24 60:7
46:4,9 know 8:14 9:14 45:14 49:4,4 18:2 matter 2:3 7:11
47:1 9:18,21 18:6 level 17:2,3 18:2 lot 9:10 15:7 9:13 26:19
20:17 27:25 18:3 45:18 lower 11:25 44:12 57:5
36:11,16 40:25 likelihood 4:20 LULAC 51:1 68:6
50:7 41:1 44:18 20:10,19 21:20 mean 7:17 8:9
51:4,8 66:16 22:7,10 23:9 M 9:21,22 13:19
53:1 34:19,21 35:4 maintain 57:1 14:2,12 15:9
L limit 10:10 64:9 16:7,8 19:1
54:16language 37:3 limitations maintaining 22:2 24:2,8
55:2,7 large 60:16 40:20 56:4 57:4 28:4 40:24
late 33:5,6 58:1 line 11:15 16:11 maintains 54:12 42:8 46:16
57:3,13 59:11 60:8 16:14 47:8 majority 28:12 means 24:25
58:19,25latest 9:8 58:22 lines 39:12 47:3 52:25 63:10 57:23
60:1Latino 20:1 54:20 majority-min... measure 45:9
Laughter 60:25 literally 65:1 36:7 mechanism
61:2 64:15 litigation 38:2 making 23:8 59:14
62:3,19 law 30:10,11 little 39:14 32:8 47:7 49:1 meet 7:6 62:11
63:14,23 32:20 40:18 malapportioned memorandum
lean 36:12 logically 66:25 33:22 60:17
67:4,15 leave 60:2 long 46:17 malapportion... mere 33:1
left 30:12 longer 7:16 29:25 30:4 merits 35:2,5,6
34:14 look 5:12 6:14 manifestation Metroplex
23:11 8:19 18:12,24 14:2,4 15:14 62:8 7:3 9:2
24:10,14 21:8 24:5 25:8 15:15,19 19:1 map 4:17 5:3,6 military 59:18
25:3,23 26:21 39:10 19:5,5 21:1,19 5:10,17,18,22 mimic 12:13,17
36:22 47:7 65:4,5,12 21:25 27:1,16 6:1,18,19 9:17 12:24
63:14,23 65:13 27:22 36:24 11:5,8,8 15:19 mind 24:8 25:12
22:5,13 legislature 5:7,8 43:13 44:21,23 18:22 19:6,8 minority 37:16
23:5 6:19 10:5 15:4 44:24 45:3,5 19:11 20:25 43:1 51:10,12
52:15 67:20 oh 47:10 52:10 ordered 65:19 permissible
newly 64:10 62:25 original 16:4 51:14
54:2,11 nondiscrimin... okay 8:7 16:3,6 ought 28:6 Perry 1:3,11,19
55:3,6,7 29:1 38:19 19:10 25:6 56:19 4:4 51:1
62:17 non-absolute 35:10 39:16 outline 37:6 person 14:9
64:7 34:12 46:9 51:8 outset 30:8 16:23 18:11
32:2 12:6 39:21 48:9 page 3:2 14:2 persuasive 28:1
nullity 11:24 5:13 6:10 21:6 12:12 17:7 phrased 44:8
67:18 operates 13:16 particular 8:12 65:20
14:4 38:23 10:14 37:16 56:16 61:20 11:24 12:6
obligations 49:6 42:22 51:11,13 party 30:20,21 13:17 14:6,13
33:5 observation opposed 8:8 15:19 16:3 18:10,13,14
30:3,6 observations 37:15 PAUL 2:7 3:3 22:9 23:15,20
49:15 31:8 optimum 55:15 3:14 4:7 64:20 23:23 24:6,12
8:14 25:16 33:24 pending 8:23 26:3,9 27:4,11
6:1,16 37:24 40:24 4:7 28:17 Perez 1:7,23 4:4 28:9 30:2
18:12 oddity 8:2 18:25 43:18 perfectly 43:6 31:14,19,22
33:11 19:3 order 6:14 20:8 54:24 32:2,19,21,21
49:5 oddly 19:24 20:9 40:24 perform 12:25 32:22,22,23,25
53:15 odds 66:16 56:9,25 57:8 permanent 33:2,2,10,11
63:16 offered 64:3 57:22 59:17 67:11 33:17,18,22
36:14 48:24 49:2,5 39:21 40:1,2 9:16,18,23 10:15
40:10 41:8 10:9,12 38:23 prohibition 33:1
44:4,13 political 32:16 42:11,15 50:5 58:22 59:5,9 projecting 22:19
32:25 50:8 66:23 59:10,12 proof 63:19 64:8
45:2,3,5 population 43:1 67:11,12 primed 58:16 64:9
54:4 precleared 4:23 principal 2:9 proper 24:13
47:10 63:4 5:4 7:9 11:12 64:6 proposal 27:18
portion 64:10 12:7 18:25 principle 4:14 proposals 27:17
50:21 positing 34:3 26:4 32:21 17:3 19:20,21 56:16
54:1
8:14,21 13:9 40:11,12 44:20 principles 4:13 29:1 38:17
57:1 19:3 22:21 65:24 67:23 14:18 19:17 47:25 63:8,10
60:6 38:13 40:15,16 predict 12:16 23:21 27:5 proposes 35:15
63:8,9 58:4 63:25 prefer 10:10 30:4,7 31:4,10 39:20
65:6 positively 67:12 64:11 49:16 55:20 32:18 34:16
possibilities preferred 33:24 67:3 protection 23:6
66:21 10:11 prejudging 36:4 prior 19:24 26:22 27:3
8:8,11 32:5 49:9 33:17 problem 5:11,13 11:17 13:2,8
40:9 postponing 9:3 preliminary 6:10,16 8:6 13:10 63:7
48:14 potential 61:16 26:15 31:8,11 17:17,18,20,22 provision 25:1
57:20 powerful 4:17 34:25 35:1,3 17:23 18:12 public 49:17
practicable 10:8 35:17,22 44:9 20:13,17 21:7 purpose 8:11
28:21 precedence 16:22 19:4,7 25:19 26:19 38:19
38:16,22 presented 62:12 29:8,19 35:24 purposes 26:25
11:17 54:12 56:4,11 presidential 9:8 65:2 66:1 46:22 51:22
25:2,11 56:12 57:1,4 59:3,5,10,12 67:17,19 puts 11:14
30:12
presumably problems 9:2,10 putting 51:15
37:20 precisely 38:13 10:6 10:24 11:1 p.m 2:5 4:2 68:5
43:12 38:16 54:7 presume 26:5,7 21:8,17 25:15
46:25 preclear 11:22 48:16,17 26:1 58:15 Q
5:1 6:6 7:2,3,7 presumption proceeded 21:18 10:19,21 13:21
30:13,14 11:11,12,13,14 primaries 33:6 proceeds 13:25
34:11,25
14:5 58:1 59:3,11 process 50:22 41:4 44:12
47:25 25:12 26:20 primarily 43:1 56:11
57:16
36:15,18 primary 9:3,6,8 profoundly 66:14,18,24,24
64:20,23 25:9,19 26:18 review 22:17 S
39:15 67:13 47:24 65:18 revise 7:13 San 2:13
66:18 record 60:15,16 remedying RICK 1:3,11,19 sat 52:19
9:20 13:9 65:25 remove 30:4 17:12 19:1,7 17:15,16 19:23
28:4 referred 39:11 render 61:9 20:12,13 27:21 36:5 40:25
51:25 reflect 4:12 rendering 58:7 27:21 28:4,10 42:21 44:21,22
53:17 repeatedly 4:14 29:15 35:24 44:24 45:10
25:21 representative 37:13,20 42:4 52:19,19 53:6
62:23 33:1 63:22 24:18,21,22
42:18,18 24:16,19 resolved 10:6 road 11:5,8,8 34:4,10 44:6
53:2 relate 20:2 respect 23:12,22 ROBERTS 4:3 45:15 48:8,15
relatively 9:23 27:19 30:17 18:18 25:25 48:20 53:10,12
55:1 13:8,11,13 57:10 67:19 36:3,11 37:11 55:21 56:1
rely 47:6 respects 34:22 40:14 43:7,16 scenario 22:19
28:5 remand 37:22 responses 28:1,5 54:16 60:19,22 season 68:2
66:16 41:7 41:2 64:17 67:15,25 seats 6:19 67:20
4:12 rest 8:7 roles 12:25 20:11 25:2,11
56:14 5:10 6:9,11 30:10 rule 33:10 34:11 56:14 62:3,3
65:3 20:9 21:19 result 53:6,8 34:12 Secretary 56:21
64:3 32:22 66:15 retains 13:1 62:14,16 section 4:21 5:3
55:24 remedy 5:13 reversed 12:2 run 60:18 17:7 18:8 23:3
6:10 13:21,24 reverted 47:25 runs 47:8 23:3,5,12,19
63:19 6:2 13:15 56:25 63:15 strongest 17:13
26:10,22 showing 35:5,6 15:21,23 17:19 64:1 17:16
28:24 35:11 18:16 19:9 started 18:10 subject 29:6
29:6,13 shows 21:4 20:11 45:10,14 21:24 48:3 submission 40:1
31:14,23 38:18 46:4,9 58:19 starting 5:21,25 61:20
33:20 side 35:24 58:25 59:7,13 6:23 29:20,23 submissions
37:25,25 side's 8:2,21 sound 47:7 31:21 37:8 40:2,8,9
sight 4:13 17:24 55:12 61:4 39:19 46:25 submitted 40:3
18:2 21:19 so-called 27:18 starts 31:19 68:4,6
signal 10:16 speaking 62:8 state 12:16 substantial 4:20
47:13 significant 20:3 specific 4:19 14:13 15:7 20:10,19 21:20
50:1 similar 63:9 21:8 23:2 24:6 27:9 28:1 22:7 23:9
61:16 simple 13:9 50:14 28:5,8 29:3,6 34:18,21 35:4
62:4,6 simply 6:22 specifically 14:3 30:10 31:20 50:5,18 61:25
65:22 67:16 20:1 44:19,21 47:13 substantive
sit 17:1 split 16:5,6 47:25 48:2,9 62:19
sitting 40:16 26:14 57:22 48:24 49:2,22 subterfuge 31:4
situation 13:10 Split-voting 52:3 54:15 succeed 22:8
33:18,25 34:2 54:10 56:21,23 57:11 success 34:19,21
42:9 situations 10:18 SRI 2:9 3:6 62:10 63:5,9 sufficient 59:20
52:18 34:5 28:17 64:3,9 65:18 suggest 33:17
27:9 27:14,24 29:10 28:20 29:11,16 States 1:1 2:4,11 62:20
43:4 62:11,20,24 32:9 33:8,13 38:6 58:1 48:23 53:5
59:21 Smith's 63:8,13 33:19 34:8,13 59:11 64:4 63:20
soldiers 59:22 36:16 37:2,13 statewide 40:2,9 44:10 66:8
67:15 solutions 67:18 41:13,17 42:2 49:13 50:21 summary 17:10
somebody 24:22 stage 35:2,2,6,8 status 37:9 60:15 61:4
sorry 18:16 34:18,20 35:17 statutory 4:19 suppose 7:1,3,4
sort 36:24 49:1 standards 13:12 stays 35:1 42:4 63:2
Texas 1:3,11,19 9:8 10:15,15 told 18:14,21,22 ultimately 23:10
26:2 32:4 8:19 9:3,6,14 15:13,15,19 traditional uncleared 39:9
36:25 9:22 10:4,11 16:7,21 20:14 36:20 unconnected
44:7 10:13 12:16 21:4 22:7 treat 35:25 19:12
33:4,12,16,18 27:13,14,15,19 38:7 underpinning
39:20 36:17 37:7,17 tried 42:24 19:10,20 23:17
15:14 50:6,13,19,24 42:14,19 43:9 true 8:10 understating
22:2 51:2 55:22 44:11 45:12,21 truly 4:11 16:8
24:4 56:20 57:3,9 46:11 47:11 try 12:12,16 unique 65:1
31:13 58:8,16 62:8 52:5,5 54:23 26:14 30:18,20 United 1:1 2:4
43:24 63:16,16,18 55:5,5,10 57:7 30:21 31:9 2:11 3:7 28:18
67:5,8 67:10 57:17 62:7 42:21 49:8 64:4 65:14
Texas's 6:9 63:15,24 64:2 trying 13:22,23 unlawful 24:12
67:2 Thank 22:13 thinking 13:5 turn 6:2 19:2 40:18
43:8,16 64:16 thought 14:24 turns 54:4 11:24 13:17
17:5,12 theirs 51:24 three 10:25 11:20 16:20 32:19 39:5,19
20:4 theory 45:17 34:21 43:23 19:12 20:17,18 43:24 64:11
40:25 thereof 4:20 three-judge 7:5 20:18,23 24:14 Upham 8:1,5,18
19:4,8 22:15 tightrope 49:2 35:16 40:17 upheld 52:1
25:12 26:20 time 7:15 28:13 41:2,2 51:15 upside 35:7
56:24 times 14:13,14 tying 19:13 32:24 33:10,18
59:23 6:16 7:14,20 60:12 ultimate 35:20 U.S 14:15
51:1 56:6 56:4 57:1,4,10 54:3,3 57:6,9 11-715 1:21 36-seat 6:21
57:19 59:14,15 we've 12:8,19 137 37:7
49:6 138 37:7 4
wait 7:16 12:20 53:8 51:10 43 3:12
Waller 13:6 Whitcomb 51:10
21:25 willing 57:6 17:13 18:7 7:7 13:16 14:1
30:16 31:7,25 window 40:13 17 16:1
59:3 wonder 38:21 17th 41:19 23:19,21,24
51:23 26:10 27:1,4
10:13 26:24 49:17 1988 9:25
1:25 2:7,10 9:1 workable 39:10 2 23:3,5,12
33:4 44:3 working 58:25 26:22 27:2 37:25 38:3,5
40:6 42:6
14:1,7 50:1 58:8
18:13 wavered 67:13 10:10 23:24 62:4,6 63:1
25:10 62:23 63:25
46:15 21:17 26:8,11 29:13 2:08 68:5
36:9,12 write 61:3 20 40:9,10,12 64:6,7,13
66:22,24 67:1
46:21 14:20 15:10 2011 27:11 28:9 67:3,5,9,10
23:13 5's 63:23
36:7 47:17 48:18,20 16:18,18,19,21 29:20
61:16,16 49:1 50:3 17:6,12 18:6,9 2012 2:1
63:20,20 26th 58:1,23,24 6
62:4 19:22 26:13
60:1,3 6 41:22 60:16
20:1 60-day 40:13
25:10,15 weeks 58:11 x 1:2,8,10,16,18
26:19 3 56:17 64:19
53:25 WENDY 1:15 8
65:7 zones 30:17 3a 40:4 8 41:19
59:18 we're 5:25 12:23 9 2:1
15:2,12,13
59:23,24
21:20 1st 9:17 15:3 32 6:19
30:9 49:7 1:00 2:5 4:2 96 14:2
24:7,7 33 27:24 43:13
50:1,25 10 42:6
