IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CHUNON L. BAILEY, AKA POLO, :
Petitioner : No. 11-770
v. :
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Thursday, November 1, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Petitioner.
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 58
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 11-770, Chunon Bailey v. United States.
Mr. Shanmugam.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
In Michigan v. Summers, this Court
established a categorical exception to the default
Fourth Amendment requirement of probable cause.
Under Summers, officers executing a search
warrant for contraband may detain individuals they
encounter at the scene while they are in the course of
executing the warrant.
This case presents the question whether the
Summers exception also permits officers to detain
individuals who have left the scene before the warrant
is executed. Because individuals who have left the
scene do not pose an immediate threat to the safe and
efficient completion of the search, the court of appeals
erred by permitting their detention absent probable
cause or even individualized suspicion. Its judgment
should therefore be reversed.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, the two tests,
yours seem to be the immediate vicinity test, and the
Second Circuit is as soon as practical test. Your
adversaries point out that the Second Circuit test
actually focuses on the police officer's conduct, which
should be the focus of reasonableness or
unreasonableness. Your test just creates an artificial
line that is subject to as much play as the other. Why
isn't the focus on police conduct the right focus?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, let me explain,
Justice Sotomayor, first, the sort of theoretical basis
for why we're offering this line, and, second, say a
word about the comparative merits of the two tests.
First of all, with regard to the theoretical
basis for the line, our fundamental submission to this
Court is that Summers does not create a police
entitlement; it is instead a rule of necessity and
should be confined to situations in which a detention
serves search-related purposes.
And in our view, the justifications for a
detention evaporate once an individual has left the
immediate vicinity of the premises. And, again, that's
because in those circumstances a detention serves no
interest in ensuring the safe and efficient completion
of the search because the individual poses no immediate
threat to the safe and efficient completion of the
search.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And what is the immediate
vicinity? How would you define that?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, ordinarily, the
immediate vicinity will be the physical bounds of the
property; but, there may be circumstances in which an
individual who is just outside the physical bounds of
the property should nevertheless be detained, so to
provide --
JUSTICE SCALIA: May be? There certainly
is. I mean, that was Summers, wasn't it?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, in Summers itself, the
individual was on the premises just outside the house
that was going to be searched, and the officers were, in
the government's words in that case, approaching the
property.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. He wasn't on the
premises, he was on the sidewalk, right?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, he was actually on --
he was on the property because he was on a sidewalk that
connected the front steps to the public sidewalk in
front of the house. The officers were approaching the
house, about to effectuate entry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He was in the curtilage of
the house.
MR. SHANMUGAM: He was pretty clearly within
the curtilage, Justice Scalia.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You said the
difference is there's no immediate threat to the
officers here. But there is a threat, I suppose, I
mean, if he finds out about the search and comes back,
if he sees the officers outside his dwelling, if there's
somebody in the dwelling who can notify him, send him a
message that the police are searching and he can get his
confederates and come back.
It seems to me that you're requiring that
there be a larger number of police present at the site
conducting the search, being lookouts for anybody that
might come back, being able to detain people who are
leaving as they approach. There's no immediate threat,
but there's certainly a threat.
MR. SHANMUGAM: If anything, it's the
government's approach that requires a greater number of
officers at the site because, under the government's
approach, you have the two officers who conduct the
detention while a separate group of officers execute the
search.
And it's really for that reason,
Justice Scalia --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it requires
more unless they want the guy to get away, I guess,
right?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, let me say something
about this prospect that the individual will return. We
think that the appropriate analysis here is the analysis
that this Court set out in Arizona v. Gant.
And this Court, in Arizona v. Gant,
suggested that where a categorical rule is involved, you
have to look at the class of cases to which the rule
would be extended to see if the justifications apply.
Now, with regard to this class of
individuals who have left the scene, we believe that it
is simply unlikely either that such an individual who
has left the scene will be aware of the presence of
police, or that such an individual will return in an
effort to disrupt the search.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, what if he were aware,
or what if there was reason to think he might be aware,
would you then allow the police to do what the police
did here?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we wouldn't. And
that's simply because we believe that this should be a
categorical analysis.
And so, again, you're looking at this entire
class of cases where individuals have left the scene to
determine whether the justifications for the Summers
rule apply.
Now, let me provide a --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If -- if you think that
leaving the scene -- in Justice Kagan's hypothetical,
that he's leaving the scene with incriminating evidence,
at that point you have -- you have a Terry stop? And
he's right at the scene; he's just leaving the premises,
at the end of the driveway or something?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, the analysis under
Terry is whether there is reasonable suspicion, a
reasonable basis to believe that the individual is
engaged in criminal activity --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What would you think
generally in my hypothetical? There'd be hundreds of
other facts, but --
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, ordinarily, when an
individual is seen leaving the scene -- and suppose --
let me provide --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just -- just before the
search, yes.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, of course, the
individual who is leaving the scene doesn't necessarily
know that the search is about to take place.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.
MR. SHANMUGAM: And so, to provide a
hypothetical that will hopefully put some meat on the
bones of this issue, suppose that an individual leaves a
house, and he actually sees police officers sitting in a
car, whether marked or unmarked, outside the house. And
it is clear that he has seen the officers. He waves at
the officers and then ambles down the street.
I don't think that there would be any doubt
but that that individual could not be detained unless he
did something more; unless, for instance, he engaged in
flight at that point, at which point he could perhaps be
detained under Terry.
And so we simply submit that the analysis
should be no different in a situation in which the
purpose -- the reason why the officers are sitting
outside the house is because another group of officers
is about to execute the search warrant.
Of course, that individual --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Terry -- Terry is an
open question in this case. It wasn't decided below,
but it was raised.
So -- so you're arguing we shouldn't extend
Summers, but that leaves this very case susceptible to
the assertion that this was a legitimate Terry stop.
MR. SHANMUGAM: That is correct,
Justice Ginsburg.
And just to be clear about how these two
doctrines work together, our submission to this Court is
that within the search zone, within the immediate
vicinity of the premises, the rule of Summers applies,
so that, if officers encounter an individual within that
zone while they are in the process of executing the
warrant, a detention is permissible absent probable
cause or individualized suspicion.
Outside that search zone, ordinary
Fourth Amendment principles apply. And, of course,
under the Fourth Amendment, detentions of persons have
to be justified by some degree of individualized
suspicion; probable cause for a full-fledged arrest,
individualized suspicion for a more limited detention
under Terry.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what would you think
of this situation? Officers have a no-knock warrant,
and they're -- they're at the house. They see somebody
come out the door and start to go down the steps,
doesn't look like that person has noticed their
presence.
Now, they have the choice, if you prevail,
of either rushing in and stopping the person within the
curtilage, in which case they could detain the person,
or they could allow the person to walk some distance
outside of the site of the house and then stop the
person, and that would allow them to execute the warrant
without endanger -- without enhancing the danger to them
from potentially armed people inside or allowing the
destruction of evidence.
What -- in that situation, what argues in
favor of your rule, that if they want to detain this
individual, they have to rush in and stop him before he
leaves the premises?
MR. SHANMUGAM: The justifications
articulated by this Court in Summers, Justice Alito, and
in particular what we really believe are the primary
justifications, first, minimizing the risk of harm to
officers executing the warrant; and, second,
facilitating the orderly completion of the search.
And let me say a word about --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, without
interrupting -- in that situation, officer safety is
undermined by your rule because it requires them to stop
the person on the premises and, therefore, tip off those
inside, potentially, about their presence.
MR. SHANMUGAM: But they also have the
choice not to engage in a detention at all.
And I think the fundamental problem with the
court of appeals' rule and with the government's
submission to this Court is that it really entails the
conclusion that once officers see the individual leaving
the house, they have an entitlement to detain that
individual, with the only open question being where and
how they go about effectuating the detention.
But we simply believe that the
justifications for the detention don't attach to the
individual. They are search-based justifications. And
the mere fact that an individual is seen leaving a house
that is about to be searched in our view is insufficient
to give rise to reasonable suspicion.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Shanmugam, when you talk
about the justifications in your brief and just now, you
talk about two; but, there were, in fact, three, and the
third was flight. So how is it that that's dropped from
your understanding of Summers?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we simply think,
Justice Kagan, that that justification is insufficient
standing on its own. And that is simply because the
justification in preventing flight is different in kind
from the other two justifications that we've been
discussing.
The other two justifications are truly
special law enforcement interests, to use this Court's
words in Summers. The interest in preventing flight, by
contrast, is an ordinary law enforcement interest.
And just as in my hypothetical, when the
officers are sitting outside and they see an individual
wander by, the mere fact that the individual saw the
police and perhaps would therefore conclude that the
police were on to him would not give rise to a basis for
detention simply because that individual could
subsequently flee.
So, too, we think that preventing flight in
and of itself is insufficient. That is the ordinary law
enforcement interest that requires individualized
suspicion.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, can I come back
to the facts that my colleagues have raised and break it
down implicating the Terry question?
Here, the officers had a report of something
in the house, and they saw the defendant -- two people
leaving.
I know Terry hasn't been decided, but why do
you think -- just the stop, not the detention, not the
bringing them back to the house, why do you think that
just stopping them was wrong?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Under Terry?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under Terry.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Sure. Well, and first of
all, I should preface what I'm about to say by noting
that the court of appeals itself didn't reach the Terry
issue, and the government doesn't advance that issue in
its merits brief.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the court below did.
MR. SHANMUGAM: So that would be an issue
that would be open on remand. And let me say why on
remand --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Just the
stop would be -- but -- but they did more than just stop
them. They --
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, that's right. The
stop and the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- they handcuffed them.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it goes back to if
a police officer saw an individual leaving the house and
was concerned about them tipping someone off, et cetera,
what would be the problem with the officer stopping the
person around the corner, holding them, making sure
people got in and then letting them go.
MR. SHANMUGAM: And just to be clear,
because there are the two separate issues. There's the
question of the stop and the question of the detention.
And there would be a separate question about whether
under Terry a detention of a particular length might or
might not be permissible.
But as to the stop, the argument that we
would make on remand if we were to prevail before this
Court would be that here what you have is insufficient
to meet the reasonable suspicion standard. And what I
assume that the government would argue is that the
combination of the search warrant and the fact that the
individual was seen leaving the premises that were about
to be searched, and as to which there was probable cause
to believe that contraband was present, and the fact
that my client met the extremely generic description
provided by the confidential informant, would be
sufficient to give rise to reasonable suspicion.
Now, clearly we don't think -- I was just
going to say, clearly we don't think that either of
those factors standing on its own would be sufficient.
The question would be whether that combination of
factors under the facts and circumstances of this case
would be sufficient, and we would submit that that
combination is insufficient as well.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If they did do -- if they
did do a Terry stop, and in the process of that stop the
police officer got a call that said, we found lots of
contraband, guns in this house, at that point they could
have turned the Terry stop into an arrest, couldn't
they?
MR. SHANMUGAM: They could very well, with
one caveat, and that caveat is simply that the
circumstances under which the contraband is found might
be relevant to the analysis of whether or not there is
probable cause, because the question would be whether or
not there is probable cause to believe that the
individual constructively possessed the contraband at
issue.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Shanmugam, please help
me. I -- I don't understand why -- why the Terry stop
is at issue, inasmuch as there was not a Terry stop. I
mean, what occurred here went well beyond a Terry stop,
did it not? So what do you do? You -- you slice the
baloney that thin; you say well, the -- the first stop
is a Terry stop. Oh, yes, he later went on to detain
them for a long time and put handcuffs on them and take
them back to the premises. What -- what relevance does
the Terry stop have?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, that would be the
additional question, whether the detention in this case,
which did involve taking my client and the other
individual, putting them in handcuffs, putting them in
the patrol car, and then taking them back to the scene,
was permissible within the scope of a Terry stop. And I
think that would also be an open question, and that
would particularly be an open question in a number of
these cases in which the detention, pursuant seemingly
to Summers, occurs over a very lengthy period of time.
Under Terry, of course --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I guess -- I guess, I
just didn't realize that it's an open question whether
you can do that much in -- in a mere Terry stop.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, under Terry officers
may detain an individual for the period of time it takes
for them to confirm or dispel the suspicion, and I think
that there would be an open question as to whether or
not when officers are executing a search warrant, for
the duration of the execution of the search warrant,
that falls within the scope of that Terry test.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could you explain what you
mean by the immediate vicinity? Is it based on -- on
property line? Is it some absolute distance from the --
the entrance to the premises? Is it based on how far
you could see from the -- the site of the search?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think ordinarily it will
be within the physical bounds of the property. So --
but -- but if, for instance, officers saw an individual
coming out of his house and he walked out and he just
happened to step -- step off the curb into the road
before the officers got to them, we would say that that
would satisfy the immediate vicinity standard.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, physical bounds of
the property is -- is too much. I mean, you know, what
if it's a farm and it's a 50-acre farm?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, and the point of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think you are much better
off, I think your submissions sometimes say immediate
vicinity.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we -- we proposed to
this Court the immediate vicinity standard in large part
because it really is comparable to similar limits this
Court has adopted for other Fourth Amendment --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I like that much better
than boundaries of the property.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well -- and to provide a
couple of examples, under Maryland v. Buie, the case
that permits officers to conduct a protective sweep
incident to an arrest, the Court permits officers to
search the area immediately adjoining the place where
the arrest occurs and that has not proven to be a
difficult standard to apply in practice.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the actual
difference? I mean, you have two officers or three. If
they go into the property and somebody's there, they can
detain him, and Summers gives three reasons: One, as
Justice Kagan pointed out, preventing flight in the
event that incriminating evidence is found. We are
considering now the case where, instead of going and
detaining the people, the people inside the house walk
out and there are two officers in a patrol car or an
unmarked car outside waiting to go in. Okay. That
seems to me identical, as you said.
The last one is facilitating orderly
completion of the search. That seems to me identical.
You want the person there so that he can open a drawer,
so he can unlock a closet, et cetera, okay. Identical.
The third one, where there is the only place
for difference, it seems to me, is minimizing the risk
of harm to the officers. Now, the harm, risk of harm to
the officers I guess if he goes into the house is that,
well, if they leave, they might come back, goodness
knows, and they've seen they are looking for the drugs,
da, da, da. Or maybe they will rush out, or maybe there
will be a -- well, any, goodness knows what.
Now here I can see a slight difference, but
maybe not. I don't know. Maybe they will come back.
Maybe they noticed the people in the car outside. Maybe
they didn't. Certainly the policemen don't know. And
they might go in quicker, and then the others will be
alerted. I mean, when you talk generally about a risk
of harm to the police, it seems to me pretty close, if
not identical.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well -- well, let me --
JUSTICE BREYER: So what am I missing?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Let me address each of those
three.
JUSTICE BREYER: You already said the first
one's identical. I don't see how the third one could
change, and what about the second?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I actually don't think
that even the first one is identical. But look, we
think that first and foremost, the interest in ensuring
officer safety is really the paramount interest here,
and we simply think that it is unlikely that an
individual who is seen leaving the scene is either going
to be aware of the presence of police or return to
disrupt the search.
JUSTICE BREYER: How do you know that? They
are sitting outside in the car.
MR. SHANMUGAM: The government has not
identified a single example of an individual who is seen
leaving the scene who has returned to disrupt the search
in that fashion. Indeed, the government makes a much --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought your better
answer was the risk of somebody coming back to a house
exists whether the person just left it or left it an
hour after or before or 2 hours or 24.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, and that was going to
be --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: When the police walk in,
they always have to guard against reentry.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, and that was going to
be my next point, Justice Sotomayor; and the government
really tries to make a broader and more ambitious
argument. The government tries to make the argument
that an individual with a connection to the place to be
searched could arrive at the scene while the search is
ongoing, really regardless of whether that individual
was aware of the presence of police, and then seek to
disrupt the search.
Now, we think even as to that broader
category of cases the government hasn't made a
sufficient showing that those sorts of confrontations
are a common occurrence, particularly in light of the
routine precautions --
JUSTICE BREYER: It's not just that. It's
that they might want to get in quicker to stop this
person from leaving because he's the one who knows where
the drugs are. At least that's what they think. Or
they start to shout, and alert the others. Or -- I
mean, I have never conducted such a search, you know, so
I don't know the risks involved there, but I can see the
possibilities. And probably you might have conducted
them, but I don't know. So how am I supposed to answer
this question?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I haven't personally
conducted any searches, Justice Breyer. But I can say
that with regard to categorical rules it is really
incumbent on the government to make a showing as to why
an extension of a categorical rule is required. Because
after all --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We talked about --
we talked about officer safety. What about the safety
of others? Suppose the place being searched is adjacent
to a playground and there are, you know, dozens of
children playing in the playground. The police are
worried there would be a shootout and they want to
detain the person, so they say: Well, let's wait until
he gets a block down the street and detain him there for
the safety of the kids. That has -- they can't do that?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Officers will naturally take
precautions in situations like that. They will go in
with --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, the precaution
is let's wait until he's a block down the street because
it will be a lot safer. Can they do that and be covered
by Summers or not?
MR. SHANMUGAM: They cannot be covered by
Summers, but what they can do is either follow the
individual for the period of time during which they are
executing the warrant, or they can detain that
individual if he returns to the scene.
And again, all of the examples that the
government cites -- and there aren't that many of
them -- but the examples that the government cites are
examples of individuals who arrive at the scene and when
they realize that their place of residence is being
searched, they become obstreperous; and to the extent
that there is a concern about the threat posed to the
safety of officers in those circumstances, we would
submit that the obvious solution is to make clear that
Summers permits the detention of individuals who arrive
at the scene; and officers routinely do establish
perimeters when they are executing search warrants. And
so when they --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So if he came back -- I
mean, the scenario here is he was supposed to be driving
his friend home, and he would have come back while the
search was ongoing, but the police could apprehend
anyone while the search -- if that's what you're saying,
while the search is ongoing --
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, if he were to return
to the scene while the search is ongoing, we believe
that he could be detained pursuant to Summers, and we
cite a number of court of appeals cases that have so
held.
What the government is really arguing for
here is an even more ambitious rule, an additional layer
of Fourth Amendment prophylaxis, if you will, that
permits officers to detain an individual who is seen
leaving the scene based on the possibility that they are
going to return. The government has not come even close
to making an empirical case as to why that additional
layer of prophylaxis is required.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what if the person
comes out the door and walks -- and has walked 50 feet
down the block within sight of the entrance at the time
when the police are entering to make the arrest? Would
that person be in the immediate vicinity?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think that the
natural limit on the immediate vicinity rule is imposed
by the underlying justification, namely, that officers
should have the authority to encounter individuals -- to
detain individuals they encounter while they are in the
course of executing the warrant.
And so if in your hypothetical,
Justice Alito, the search team is marching up to the
house, and they encounter the individual 50 feet away
from the door or the property line while they are in the
course of doing so, the justifications of Summers kick
in at that point. That individual is aware of the fact
that the police are about to search his house, and, as
such, that individual poses a threat to the safe and
efficient completion of the search.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, does that mean that if
the person is within sight of the entrance to the
premises at the time when the police enter, then that
person can be searched --
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we don't think --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- and be detained.
MR. SHANMUGAM: We don't think that that's
necessarily a line of sight rule. So if you had an
individual who was sitting out in front of a house six
doors down, we don't think that that individual could be
detained. Of course, in this case, my client was
detained at least seven-tenths of a mile away --
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's the problem.
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- so the issue --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the problem. The
police have to know what they're supposed to do when
they go in to search a house, all right? And they know
that sometimes they can keep the people there, and you
are saying, but they can't stop them from leaving if
they're not -- all of a sudden, I'm a policeman, and I
don't know what to do exactly because I don't know how
to fill in that blank. And therefore, I might rush
in -- I don't know -- I see a recipe for a mess, and
that's what -- and the mess could involve physical harm,
and --
MR. SHANMUGAM: You're missing the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're not saying that they
can't stop them from leaving. Have you said that; they
can't stop them from leaving?
JUSTICE BREYER: They can't stop them from
leaving if, blank.
MR. SHANMUGAM: They -- they could always
proceed to execute the warrant when they see an
individual leaving; and, if they are in the course of
executing the warrant, a detention is permissible.
But let me say just one word about the issue
of the administrability of the rule because, after all,
what we're talking about here is a bright-line rule.
And the very purpose of a Fourth Amendment bright-line
rule is to provide guidance to courts and officers
alike.
It is true that one can posit difficult
hypotheticals under our immediate vicinity standard;
but, it is also true that it is even easier to posit
difficult hypotheticals under the as soon as reasonably
practicable standard that the government advances, which
really reintroduces the very case-by-case analysis that
bright-line rules are designed to avoid.
And, in addition, it is entirely unclear to
us what Fourth Amendment purpose that limitation serves
because it is not clear to us why it matters for Fourth
Amendment purposes how quickly officers effectuate the
detention.
And just one last point that I'd like to
make before reserving the balance of my time for
rebuttal.
The rule that the government seems to be
advocating before this Court is really a much more
ambitious rule than we've even been discussing this
morning. The government seems to suggest that the
government has the authority to detain any individual
with a connection to the place to be searched. And I
think that that is out of recognition that an individual
who happens to be at their workplace could just as
easily return to the place to be searched as an
individual who is seen leaving.
In our view, that is an astonishing
extension of the rule that this Court announced in
Summers.
And I would like to reserve the balance of
my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Wall.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY B. WALL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Wall, would you
answer -- direct your first response to that last issue
because, as I read your brief, you seem not to be
accepting the Second Circuit's rule at all. You seem to
be proposing what appears to me to be a much broader
rule that says -- at one point in your brief you state
that it is the occupant's observed connection to a home
subject to a valid warrant, not his physical location at
the time that he is detained, that makes him subject to
detention.
Now, I know police when they're executing
warrants often have an advance team that has been
surveilling a home, sometimes for days. And they've got
one officer sitting there, and they see who they think
is the occupant leave, and the team doesn't arrive till
12 hours later.
Is it your position that in that
circumstance the officers are authorized to go to
wherever the defend -- wherever the occupant is, the
office, the -- wherever he might be, his mother's home,
and effect an arrest there?
MR. WALL: No, Justice Sotomayor. I
appreciate the opportunity to start there because I
think Petitioner's reply brief and much of his argument
today is devoted to a position the government's not
taking.
So let me be very clear. In the
government's view, Summers is about current and recent
occupants, people whom police, when they are executing
the warrant, find at the home or see leaving the home in
the process of executing a warrant.
And the question here is do the
justifications apply equally as a departing occupant
steps away from the home and onto a sidewalk, a yard, a
couple blocks away.
And I think my friend's answer to that has a
wonderfully abstract quality to it that doesn't engage
any of the realities on the ground.
Justice Alito, your hypothetical is anything
but. It comes very close to the facts of the Cochran
case out of the Sixth Circuit. Police arrive at the
scene. The occupant is known to carry a gun, and he has
a guard dog. So, rather than walk up to the door, they
wait for him to leave; but, by the time they can catch
up to him, he's off of the bounds of the property, but
he's still very close to the residence. They stop him.
They take him back to the residence. He lets the
officers in. He secures the dog, and they complete the
search.
I think that is a model law enforcement
practice, and it is indistinguishable in any important
respect from what went on in Summers.
The justifications for detention apply
equally to departing occupants when they are seen by
officers leaving in the process of executing the
warrant.
But no, Justice Sotomayor, the government is
not contending that other connections to the residence,
other than that kind of observed connection by the
officers, could justify a detention under Summers.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we don't have
anything like that in this case. We have them getting
into a car, driving almost a mile away and being stopped
at that point.
MR. WALL: Well, we do have, though, the
officers seeing him departing the residence as they're
executing the warrant. It's a no-knock warrant for a
gun. And rather than stop him right outside the house
because they don't know who else would be inside --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: As they're executing
the warrant, I don't remember, was the -- did the
individual know that they were executing the warrant in
this case?
MR. WALL: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, okay.
MR. WALL: They had obtained the warrant.
They had -- the team had --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the danger to
them is not at all like the situation with the dog and
the armed guy just off the property.
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, I respectfully
disagree. And the government would be happy to have
this case decided by having the Court look at the
Federal and state cases, look at the risks that are
present in those cases, and deciding whether the
interests of Summers are served in those cases.
What we see in the cases is that -- take
this very case, for instance. Petitioner is driving his
friend home to meet a court-imposed probation curfew,
and he is then returning to the house. I think the
reasonable inference in the record is that he'll be back
in a matter of minutes. So he --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And then Mr. Shanmugam
says they could stop him. They could stop anybody. The
search is ongoing. Somebody approaches the house; the
police can stop that person.
MR. WALL: But think how formalistic and odd
that is, Justice Ginsburg, that the police see someone
leaving, but, if they can't catch up to them on the
bounds of the property, which has no reasonable
relationship to the warrant here, which was for the
premises, not for the -- for that property --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The threat is from anybody
coming back to the house, not just the person who just
left.
MR. WALL: Oh, assuming --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And surely the police, when
they're conducting a search, post guards to prevent
people from coming in.
MR. WALL: They often do, Justice Scalia,
but --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume they always do.
It seems to me there's no special threat from the person
who -- who left the house. There's always a threat of
somebody else coming into the house.
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, certainly in
urban areas they do. I think it's more difficult where
you have smaller police departments in rural areas.
But the government's not disputing that
posting sentries is a good idea. That doesn't begin to
take care of the most serious cases, where people
outside of the area of the search fire on or assault
officers.
So, for instance, in 2008 --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're missing the
point, which is that's going to happen regardless,
meaning that risk exists whether the person left the
minute you got there or a minute before or an hour
before or two hours before. That's the whole point,
which is the risk is extant no matter what.
MR. WALL: Justice Sotomayor, there is no
question that executing a warrant is dangerous, and
people can come onto the scene at any time.
The question is, do we want to increase that
risk to officers? Here, Petitioner is leaving, he'll be
back in a matter of minutes, and they're searching for
guns.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you didn't know --
you don't know that in any search, meaning any time you
do a search you have no idea when the -- whether the
occupant -- sometimes you know whether the occupant is
inside. You'll hear the TV or something else. But
often you don't, and you don't know if someone will come
back and when.
MR. WALL: Justice Sotomayor, I completely
agree, although I think that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why is seeing someone
leaving increasing that risk?
MR. WALL: Because we know that some
percentage of those people will come back. Some
percentage will flee, which is one of the interests in
Summers, which I think Petitioner does not take
seriously. But some percentage of them will come back
and some percentage of those returning occupants will
harm officers. And unfortunately --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If -- if you have a large
enough force that you can afford to send two of them in
a car chasing this fellow for a mile, why can't you just
post those two outside the house, just in case somebody,
whether it's this person who's just left or anybody
else, comes back? I mean, it -- it seems to me that --
that what your positing is -- is -- is unlikely, namely,
having -- having sufficient personnel to follow these
persons, but not having sufficient personnel to defend
the premises against somebody entering.
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, first, that isn't
even arguably going to serve two of the three Summers
interests, preventing people from fleeing or garnering
their assistance in the orderly completion of the
search. But even if we --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you tell me what
constitutional right entitles you to stop someone from,
using the word, "fleeing"? You certainly are entitled
to stop someone with whom you have reasonable suspicion.
But what constitutional right entitles you to stop a
person who's just leaving in the normal act, without
reasonable suspicion?
MR. WALL: Justice Sotomayor, I think your
question fills in the answer. What the Court said in
Summers is when you see someone -- when you find someone
at a home or you see them leaving at a time when a
neutral magistrate has determined there's probable cause
to believe a crime is being committed inside, you have,
in the words of the Summers Court, "articulable and
individualized suspicion" to believe that that person is
linked to the criminal activity inside the home.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Wall, you have
that, too, about the person in her workplace, and you
said that your argument didn't apply to the person in
her workplace. So you have to come up with something
better than that. And I guess the question is your rule
would seem to encompass, you know, a whole set of people
who are leaving their houses for ordinary reasons: I'm
going to work in the morning.
And the question is whether the police can
stop this person who's going to work in the morning,
who's given no indication that he's seen the police
officers at the scene, no indication that he's coming
back immediately or, you know, in any amount of time
that it will take you to complete the search.
And that's not an outlier case. It seems to
me that the hypothetical I just gave you might very well
be the more common case than the hypothetical that you
gave me. So, you know, why isn't this just too broad a
categorical rule?
MR. WALL: Well, Justice Kagan, let me break
that up into both parts. First, you know, as far as
detaining people who have other connections to the home,
I think you're right that some of the arguments that the
Court adopted in Summers and that the government is
making here could translate. And I think when those
cases come to the Court, the Court will have to decide
whether to recognize doctrines analogous to Summers or
Terry in those contexts. But that's not what Summers is
about. The connection that Summers discusses and
approves is seeing someone leaving a home subject to a
valid warrant for contraband. That's the only
connection at issue here.
JUSTICE BREYER: But is it in the process?
Does Summers apply and does this apply only when the
police are in the process of executing a valid search
warrant?
MR. WALL: Yes, Justice Breyer. Even
Petitioner, the way I read his briefs, concedes that if
police had caught him outside the basement apartment or
somewhere within the property bounds --
JUSTICE BREYER: If -- if the police
executing the valid search warrant walked through the
gate and at that moment the individual emerging from the
house had not yet passed through the gate, then under
Summers the police would have the right to detain him.
All right. So the question here is he's
walked through the gate. All right. Now, I guess the
police -- all right, I see. The police objection is: I
don't know. These things are complicated and we might
not want to push him back. I don't know what the
neighborhood is like and maybe somebody will get killed.
I mean, that's the kind of argument --
MR. WALL: Justice Breyer, that is
absolutely right. The government's central --
JUSTICE BREYER: I know you'd say that was
right.
MR. WALL: I mean, I -- the government's
central contention is there's nothing magical about the
gate for Fourth Amendment purposes. When he steps
through the gate, he's just as much of a flight risk, a
danger to officers and just as able to assist in the
orderly completion of a search.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There is something magical
about the gate or at least about the immediate facility
of the house. What we're trying to apply here is an
absolute rule to make it unnecessary for the officers to
guess whether they can do this or that. And the rule
you propose is, well, you know, a mile away. What's
your test, a reasonable --
MR. WALL: As soon as reasonably
practicable.
JUSTICE SCALIA: As soon as reasonably
practicable. You consider that an absolute test? I
thought that the test we invented here was meant to help
officers, to say this is the rule and you can do it.
And you want to do anything else, use Terry or use --
use normal probable cause principles, but this is an
absolute rule governing the -- the search of a home.
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, it is an absolute
rule and it tells you who, it gives you a who, who is
detainable. People we find --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't give you a
where. You need more than a who. You need a who and a
where.
MR. WALL: Well, the who is categorical.
People you find on the premises or you see leaving the
premises at a time when a magistrate has determined
there's probable cause to believe a crime is being
committed inside. The where, the location. Just like
duration, just like use of force in the Muehler and
Rotelli cases, those are subject to the general
requirement of reasonableness under the Fourth
Amendment.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Wall, the Summers
case was an exception. The main rule is you have
probable cause. So you are taking the exception, which
was tied tightly to the house. You want him to stay on
the premises so he can -- there won't be any risk that
he's going to disrupt the search, but it was -- it was
an exception to the main Fourth Amendment rule, and now
you are asking to have that exception spread.
And so today you say, oh, well, we're not --
we're not asking if the person gets to her workplace,
but that the police, but maybe why -- why not? I mean,
you -- it's one thing to confine Summers to the house,
the immediate premises, and another to say seven-tenths
of a mile away, that's okay, too.
MR. WALL: Justice Ginsburg, I think the
reason Summers carved out the rule is it said, look,
for -- for current and recent occupants as a class,
we -- officers see, they find or see them at a residence
where there's probable cause to believe a crime is
committed, so across the board we've got reasonable
suspicion, and that's why we draw a rule so that we're
not going to rebalance every time.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Right. But the
across-the-board is a set of people who are at the house
when you want to search the house. And of course,
Summers makes perfect sense. You want to search the
house, you can't have these people roaming around,
right? So you have to detain the people.
But what you're now saying is: Well,
there's another class of people, they're going to work
in the morning. And we've -- there's -- there is no
indication that they've seen the police officers;
they're going to work. But we get to detain them, too,
just because we have a warrant to search the house. And
the question is why?
MR. WALL: Justice Kagan, as far as we know,
George Summers was going to work. I mean, George
Summers was detainable, as was Petitioner here, on his
view if we had caught him within the physical bounds of
the property. The question is not, you know, how to
apply it in that circumstance. It's does something
meaningfully -- meaningful change when he hits the
sidewalk or the neighbor's yard?
JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, something meaningful
very -- very much changes. Before, you're dealing with
a problem of a person on the premises while you're
trying to search the premises. And now you're talking
about a person who is going to work, leaving the
premises, letting you search the premises without any
interference.
MR. WALL: Justice Kagan, I don't think that
explains why you couldn't let George Summers go on his
way, and it doesn't explain why the Court in Summers
didn't say, look, rather than roam the house, if it
really is true that once we let you outside the front
door or the front gate, you are no longer a danger and
are likely only to be a hindrance, why not give you the
option to leave. Turn them out, because on Petitioner's
view, they're safe to go. And what the Court in Summers
recognized is, no, important interests are served by
detaining people in that circumstance.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You have to draw a line
someplace. When he is descending the steps to his
house, he is still associated with the house. And once
he steps over that line, the Summers rationale it seems
to me doesn't apply.
But there's a curiosity about this case,
maybe you can explain it to me. They stop him
seven-tenths of a mile away. By that time, the search
is ongoing. They have found guns and contraband. They
take -- why do they take him back to the house? What
was the reason for taking? There was nothing there that
he could -- he couldn't obstruct the search. He was in
handcuffs.
MR. WALL: I think --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He couldn't point out
anything in drawers because they'd found it all.
MR. WALL: I mean, I think at that point
they had probable cause; they could have arrested him
and I think they could have taken him down to the
station house. They returned him to the scene instead.
And I don't think there's any evidence in the record
about why they took him back to the scene rather than --
than straight to the station house.
But, Justice Ginsburg, I do want to fight
the premise a little bit. All -- all that the
government is asking for is for the Court to look
through the Federal and state cases, because we see the
exact same interests that were served in Summers.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think -- I think we have
to take the case on the assumption -- I agree with you
there probably was probable cause -- but I think you
have to take the case on the assumption that there was
no probable cause to arrest, because they didn't -- they
did not rely on that authority.
MR. WALL: Justice Kennedy, in
that -- assuming that's true, then they took him back to
the scene to complete the search, by which time they had
found the drugs and the guns, and then they did arrest
him. And he has not claimed that at that point there
wasn't probable cause for an arrest. But these risks
are real, and they do play themselves out in the cases,
Justice Kagan --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, the problem
with absolute rules like we did in Summers is that
they're an exception, and they're absolute.
Go back to the question you were asked by
one of my colleagues earlier, why wouldn't Terry give
you all of the rights that you're seeking on the
absolute rule, but subject your police conduct to the
question of reasonableness, which is the normal standard
of the Fourth Amendment?
MR. WALL: Of course. A very brief Terry
stop could allow a departing occupant to go on his way
long before the search is completed, and now he's fully
aware of the police presence. So now --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm -- I'm litigating
for you.
MR. WALL: Sure. Okay. Imagine that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So I could very easily
imagine that what the fight's going to be like below is,
we stopped them because we saw them coming out of the
house, and all we want to do is make sure that they
don't return. So we're just going to hold them in
place. We don't have to drag them in a car back to a
place they just left. We're just going to stop them in
place to get a phone call that everything's all clear.
MR. WALL: Well, I take one of the
differences between Terry and Summers to be that in
Terry the seizure is tied to the officer's brief
investigation, and in Summers it's tied to the execution
of the warrant.
Now, if what you're talking about is a Terry
stop that could last for the duration of the warrant, I
don't know that there is much of a difference, then,
between Terry and Summers.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, we don't know, but
why don't we let that develop.
MR. WALL: Well, because I think the danger
is that courts will apply Terry the way that they have,
and we don't want to dilute one doctrine with another.
A brief Terry stop could allow occupants to
go on their way, but now they're aware of the police
presence. Now, they are much more of a risk to flee or
harm officers.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Explain -- explain to
me -- the police, they have the informant's tip, and
they see them coming out of the house. So it seems to
me it's a good case that that would be reasonable
suspicion. Coming out of the house, he looks like what
the informant says.
Then they -- can they -- they pat him down
and they find his keys, and the keys are to the house.
MR. WALL: Justice Ginsburg, that's
certainly true here. I was only saying to
Justice Sotomayor, you can imagine a case where they
execute the warrant, and it takes them a while to find
something. And, in the meantime, they stop a departing
occupant, he's not carrying a gun, he answers the
questions and does not arouse the officer's suspicion,
and now he is on his way. And he is on his way while
the search is ongoing, and now he knows about it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So what? What's he going
to -- he's going to phone them and say, hey, you know,
you're going to be searched. The cops are crawling all
around the house already.
So the only realistic additional threat is
that he is going to voluntarily go back to where the
police are in the house? I mean, you know --
MR. WALL: Well, that is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- this is so implausible.
What -- what harm --
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- what threat to the
policemen can possibly exist?
MR. WALL: I think the Texas officers in the
Valdez case, which we cite in our briefs, would find it
surprising, where they did let someone go from the
scene, and she came back with an individual and started
fighting with police.
Look, I take Petitioner's point --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Very unusual.
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Very unusual.
MR. WALL: -- it is true that only a
foolhardy person would do it, but, unfortunately, that
is a perfect description of many criminals who do not
tend to be level-headed, rational actors.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't adopt absolute
rules to cover foolhardy people. I mean, we -- absolute
rules are designed to cover the mine run of cases, the
generality of cases, not the oddball case. That's not
what you use an absolute rule for.
MR. WALL: That's absolutely right, Justice
Scalia. And in the mine run of cases, what we know is
that these people are leaving a home where there's
probable cause to believe a crime is being committed.
Police are detaining them a short distance away, and
they are doing it in cases where people are fleeing or
they -- we can reasonably believe they would flee once
they've seen officers, if they were not detained.
They are violent. They are aggressive.
Some number of them can come back, and we can make
reasonable predictions about what they would do, and
they provide very valuable assistance.
They secured guard dogs, like in the Head
and Cochran cases, where there were pit bulls and
Dobermans. They allow police to -- they give them keys
so they don't have effect forceable entry --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's an argument
in Summers I just don't understand. The argument is you
can detain the people because they might want to give
the officers assistance. Well, if they want to give
them assistance, they don't have to be detained.
MR. WALL: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems odd, you
know, we're going to tie -- we're not going to tie you
up -- we're going to keep you here, you can't leave
because we think you might tell us where the drugs are.
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, I mean, I
think it is one of three legitimate law enforcement
interests where you have someone for whom there is
articulable and individualized suspicion to believe that
they are connected to criminal activity.
And I think that this Court in Summers was
absolutely right. You do find people securing guard
dogs, moving families out of harm's way, providing keys
so that officers don't have to break in and harm
property or jeopardize third parties. You find them
handing over contraband rather than endanger officers.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If they want to do
that, they can. The question is whether you can detain
them in the hope that they will decide to help you --
MR. WALL: Well, and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- to give you the
key to the cabinet.
MR. WALL: -- and the argument in Summers is
you can detain them because you've got reasonable
suspicion. The question is, what are the interests
served by the detention? And that is an interest served
by detention.
Now, we're not saying it's an independent
basis to support it. These are people for whom, as a
class, there's reasonable suspicion, which is why
Summers carved out the rule that it did.
Now, this -- the situation in this case and
the Federal cases that we're seeing are not meaningfully
distinguishable from Summers. You've got the same
reasonable suspicion, same law enforcement interests,
same minimal intrusion. There is no -- along no
dimension is there a meaningful difference between this
case and Summers.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Justice Kagan had the
hypothetical of the person leaving to go to work, the
9:00 to 5:00 person. Suppose the warrant's going to be
executed at 5:00. Can they detain him at his office so
that he doesn't go back --
He always goes right home. He takes the
Number 3 bus, and he will be there in 20 minutes. Can
you detain him at the office under your rule?
MR. WALL: Justice Kennedy, no, not under
Summers.
Now, whether they can --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, under the rule you're
proposing.
MR. WALL: I don't think so. I mean, when
that case --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't know -- I don't
know why not, under the rule that's proposed.
MR. WALL: -- when that case comes to the
Court, the Court will have to decide whether to
recognize a doctrine analogous to Summers and Terry.
And I will honestly admit that some of the arguments
that the government's making here and that the Court
adopted in Summers will translate.
But Summers is not about that. Summers is
about current and recent occupants. And those, as a
class, have reasonable suspicion.
Now, I think these other cases get harder.
They will turn much more on what the connection was in
the facts of a specific case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, my -- I remain
with my question, which is, we have a
circumstance-driven power, Terry. Your power is really
going much more broadly, because you're basically saying
if that -- if probable cause exists to search a premise,
it exists without being tied to an individual because
anybody who leaves the house, whether or not they have
been tied to a crime in that house in the past or not,
is now subject to being detained.
So we have evidence that only a husband is
involved in a fraud, and his wife is leaving for work.
Because she was observed leaving the house, she can now
be stopped a mile away.
MR. WALL: Justice Sotomayor, to be clear,
that's not the government's rationale. That's the
rationale of the Court in Summers.
Maybe the wife is aiding and abetting. We
don't have any idea. Maybe the wife, you know, is
implicit in the -- the husband's crime in some way. The
Court's point --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So your -- your view is
that Summers gave you -- entitled you to hold people
merely for purposes of investigation --
MR. WALL: I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- without any
reasonable suspicion? That's really what your rule is
saying.
MR. WALL: My view is with the Court's on
Summers. It's appropriate to consider the nature of the
articulable and individualized suspicion on which the
police based the detention of the occupant of a home
subject to a search warrant.
And what the Court said is, whether you're
inside or whether you're on the front steps or the
sidewalk, like George Summers, that reasonable suspicion
exists. The police have placed you in the home at a
time when a neutral magistrate has determined there's
probable cause.
And to be clear, we're not trying to blow
the doors off of this exception. This is a very narrow
exception. What we see time and again in the Federal
cases is the same fact pattern: Someone leaves the
house; the police catch up to them within a mile, but
usually just within a few blocks; and, they return them
to the scene.
The police are not treating this as a sort
of entitlement. This is not Gant, where the results are
outstripping the rationale.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The -- the procedure has to
be reasonable under the Fourth Amendment, right? Now --
now, the requirements for a warrant are not the outer
bounds of -- of what's reasonable, but nonetheless, what
-- it seems to me that what's reasonable under the
Fourth Amendment can be estimated from what the Fourth
Amendment requires a warrant to contain, and what a
warrant must contain is a description of the place to be
searched, and the persons or things to be seized.
And what you're arguing for is a special
rule which says once you have a warrant that this place
can be searched, you can seize anybody -- you can seize
not only anybody there in order to protect the police,
but anybody connected with the -- with the place. And
that -- that is so contrary to what -- what seems to me
the theory of -- of the Fourth Amendment that I am very
reluctant to -- to extend our cases any further than
they already exist.
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, we're not here
asking for the Court to extend Summers. We are just
asking for a faithful application of what the Court said
in Summers. And I understand that, you know, it would
seem troubling would -- were it not for the fact that
the Court in Summers, I think, really walked through why
as a class, when you're inside the home or you're
leaving the home, we've got reasonable suspicion that
you're connected, and there are a number of good reasons
why police can detain you while they execute the
warrant.
You're right, the Fourth Amendment does
require reasonableness, and what the officers did here
was eminently reasonable. They are executing a no-knock
warrant at a drug stash house for a gun; they see
someone leave who fits the description of the drug
dealer; and rather than stop him right on the threshold
inside the curtilage and risk alarming his confederates,
they let him drive a short distance away and they return
him to the scene.
There's no meaningful difference between
that and if they had stopped him right outside the
house. The only thing they would have been --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In this case, you
couldn't think of a reason why they took him back to the
scene.
JUSTICE BREYER: Maybe he had a key to
the -- to the place where they keep the drugs, the
basement or something.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He might have wanted to
help in the search.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that fanciful? Is it
fanciful that people who are searched open doors or --
MR. WALL: It's far from being fanciful.
The Sherrill case out of the Eighth Circuit, the Sears
case out of the Eleventh Circuit, they came back and
they unlocked doors so the police wouldn't have to make
forcible entry. In Montieth out of the Fourth
Circuit --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but the
question is whether you have to detain them to do
something you're saying they'd want to do.
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, we're not here
saying that every time somebody could be helpful in a
search you could go out and detain them. It is an
exception to the normal probable cause requirement, but
it's an exception analogous to Terry because you've got
reasonable suspicion. And the question is there, okay,
as a categorical rule, you know you've got reasonable
suspicion for this entire group of people, current and
recent occupants; what reasons do police have to detain
them?
And there are really good reasons. One,
they tend to flee. And we see that in Cavazos out of
the Fifth Circuit. Two, they provide assistance in the
search; and three, they are often violent or aggressive
individuals.
I don't think it's irrelevant that the vast
majority of search warrants for contraband are for guns
and drugs, and you see a number of amici states in here
saying: Look, this is a legitimate and important law
enforcement practice for officers in a very dangerous
and volatile situation in executing these warrants.
And I think Petitioner takes those risks way
too lightly, and will not -- steadfastly refuses to
engage the realities on the ground that we see in the
cases. Judges and the Federal and state courts are
grappling with this every day, and what these opinions
reveal is that these risks cannot be so easily
dismissed. They are serious and they are real, and we
see them play themselves out across this entire set of
cases.
And what we don't see noticeably is the
kinds of things that the Court tends to be worried about
in Fourth Amendment cases: Abuse and police
entitlement. Again and again, you see police detaining
departing occupants a very short distance from a
residence, returning them, not prolonging the detention,
not engaging in exploitative questioning, and actually
serving the three interests that the Court identified in
Summers.
And to be clear, Petitioner's solution is
more than just a solution in search of a problem; it
carries its own problem. It is severely
under-inclusive. It will not capture any number of
cases where there are valuable law enforcement interests
to be served. And it will produce very silly results in
a number of cases where police can't catch up to a
departing occupant for one reason or another until after
he's crossed some magical gate, and they will have to
sit on their hands until he returns so that they can do
exactly what they would have done minutes or hours
earlier if they'd been able to detain him.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They can follow him.
MR. WALL: They can, but, Justice Ginsburg,
tailing is a risky proposition, particularly in an urban
area. And that doesn't even arguably begin to serve the
interest in avoiding flight or facilitating efficient
and orderly --
JUSTICE SCALIA: All law enforcement would
be a lot easier if we didn't have the doggone Fourth
Amendment. I mean, the Fourth Amendment is an
impediment to law enforcement. Of course it is.
There -- there's no doubt about that.
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, if you start from
the premise that the Fourth Amendment doesn't permit
this, then I lose. But I think what the Court said in
Summers is, what we -- this Court has already drawn a
number of exceptions to the probable cause requirement
in reasonable suspicion cases. This is another, and it
serves very valuable interests in this case and others.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Shanmugam, you have 3 minutes left.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice. Just -- just a couple of points.
First of all, having suggested in its brief
that the police may detain any individual with a
connection to the place to be searched under Summers,
the government today falls back to the view that the
police may detain any individual with an observed
connection, suggesting that this Court can leave for
another day the question of whether to detain people
with a certain but non-observed connection.
Leaving that aside, the government suggests
on at least five occasions today that that observed
connection is sufficient to give rise to reasonable
suspicion. That was not the basis on which this Court
adopted its categorical rule in Summers. If it had
been, the discussion of the special law enforcement
interests supporting the rule would have been entirely
superfluous.
And it's for that reason we would
respectfully submit that the Court made clear in
footnote 19 that Summers permits officers to detain
individuals regardless of the quantum of proof
justifying the detention of specific individuals.
And this Court's subsequent cases applying
Summers have made clear that Summers permits the
detention of individuals with no apparent connection to
the criminal activity being investigated.
And that leads into my second point, which
is that Terry will serve as a fallback in many of these
cases to permit detentions of individuals who are seen
leaving the premises, where there is a sufficient
additional basis to give rise to reasonable suspicion.
In fact, it may very well be the exception to the rule
that you have a case in which there aren't sufficient
additional articulable facts to give rise to reasonable
suspicion.
We would respectfully submit that this case
falls within that exceptional category, but it really
underscores why the expansion of Summers that the
government is seeking is really unnecessary.
I would just note, in response to a point
that Justice Scalia made, that the fundamental flaw with
the government's position is that it really can't be
reconciled with any original understanding of the Fourth
Amendment. There's no historical evidence suggesting
that officers at the time of the founding or thereafter,
when executing search warrants, detained the occupants
of the premises.
And the problem with the government's
approach is that it really would convert any search
warrant into a search and seizure warrant. It would
really would suggest that there is a freestanding right
to detain anyone with a connection or an observed
connection to the place to be searched that operates
alongside the warrant-conferred right to conduct the
search.
JUSTICE ALITO: What -- would you say the
same thing about the exact situation in Summers?
MR. SHANMUGAM: No, we wouldn't,
Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: You think the original
understanding was that what happened in Summers was
okay, but if you get out of the immediate vicinity,
that's where they drew the line?
MR. SHANMUGAM: We're not challenging the
rule of Summers itself. We're simply suggesting that
there's no historical basis for that rule, and for that
reason we think that any expansion of Summers would
really be of questionable validity. In Summers itself,
the detention was truly incident to the execution of the
warrant because, after all, the officers were
approaching the house and literally just about to
effectuate entry when the detention took place.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you can say there was
a historical basis for the rule, in that officers have
always been allowed to take necessary action to protect
themselves. And that's the principal justification.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Perhaps, but we have been
unable to find any examples of detentions of occupants
of the premises until at least 1880. And our point is
simply that the detention ceases to be truly incident to
the search where the individual has left the scene. The
justifications for the detention evaporate at that
point.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:04 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
37:15 31:19 B
61:21 AKA 1:3 appeals 3:22 arrest 10:15 back 6:7,11,15
39:4 alerted 20:3 1:14 43:14,19,21 19:19,24 21:3
43:25 alike 27:3 appears 28:19 arrested 42:23 23:24 24:1
47:9,10 Alito 10:18 application arrive 21:15 30:11 32:5,19
11:13,19 17:18 53:20 23:14,20 29:4 34:1,9,15,18
48:21 25:18 30:3 apply 7:11 8:3 articulable 38:1 42:15
allowed 61:8 42:10 45:10 artificial 4:7 58:13
48:19 24:11 27:21 apprehend 24:2 43:6 53:19,20 baloney 16:17
ambles 9:8 approach 6:16 assault 33:12 based 17:19,21
46:12 38:10 39:19 appropriate 7:6 55:22 basis 4:11,15
40:1 44:7 53:1 52:5 Assistant 1:17 8:13 13:8
amount 36:14 arguably 35:7 43:17 2:4,7,10 3:7
50:20 8:11 9:14 16:7 arguing 9:23 attach 12:9 12:8 15:12
27:9 24:10 53:9 authority 25:1 16:9 24:6
answer 21:3 2:2,5,8 3:3,6 authorized 29:7 40:13 47:17,20
anybody 6:14 48:6 49:7 58:6 7:19 20:19 beyond 16:15
34:23 44:20 41:8 circumstance-... 18:14
carries 57:1 10:10,15 15:11 cite 24:8 46:22 4:13
case 3:4,17 5:16 47:17 51:6 50:23 53:24 34:10
18:5 15:20 16:23 58:1 14:23 23:19 4:24 5:1 11:17
32:14 18:19 19:6 Cavazos 55:21 27:13 29:16 19:12 25:12
41:8 24:16 25:23 caveat 16:5,5 44:22 51:15 35:9 38:13
30:5 31:1,12 ceases 61:13 52:15 56:24 complicated
48:23 34:24 36:16,18 certain 58:17 clearly 6:2 15:16 concedes 37:14
43:11,13 45:19 6:17 20:1 33:6 client 15:13 concerned 14:19
22:10 46:1,22 47:12 35:13 45:25 16:24 25:23 conclude 13:7
26:2,17 49:16,22 50:12 cetera 14:19 close 20:4 24:15 conclusion 12:4
50:15 51:1 19:14 30:4,10 conduct 4:5,9
54:19 54:16 55:2,3 challenging closet 19:14 6:21 18:20
58:3 59:16,19 60:22 Cochran 30:4 44:5 60:12
29:13 cases 7:10 8:1 41:11 colleagues 13:16 22:6,10
45:12 17:5 21:20 changes 41:14 44:3 conducting 6:14
24:8 31:23,24 chasing 34:23 combination 32:23
33:11 37:2 7:1 22:15 23:2 come 6:11,15 6:11 54:10
27:1,10 47:11,12,15,19 31:9,14,17,20 19:19,24 24:1 15:14
28:19 56:17 57:3,5 children 22:19 47:23 confrontations
57:5 30:5 55:2,3,6 21:3 32:19,24 connection
36:23 48:20 50:16,16 decide 37:2 49:3 detaining 19:7 distance 11:2
52:9 53:19,20 decided 9:21 47:18 56:18 54:11 56:19
57:24,25 58:15 deciding 31:24 4:18,21,23 49:18
courts 27:2 defend 29:8 35:4 11:25 12:7,9 48:3
Court's 13:1 define 5:4 15:2 16:23 50:17
court-imposed 30:18 31:5 28:24 30:17,24 dog 30:7,12
15:12 crawling 46:10 1:18 detentions 10:13 doing 25:8 47:19
37:7 create 4:16 departments 59:12 61:11 door 10:21
48:25 creates 4:7 33:8 determine 8:2 24:19 25:7
crime 35:23 descending 42:7 determined 30:7 41:25
28:9 curb 18:2 6:15 11:1,9 54:13 drawer 19:13
51:2 curfew 32:3 12:5 16:18 differences drawers 42:21
61:18 curiosity 42:11 17:12 19:3 44:24 drawn 57:25
58:9 40:11 50:22 24:13 25:2 12:22 drive 54:11
10:12 curtilage 5:25 40:22 41:2 27:4,7 33:7 driving 23:25
25:3,8,23 6:3 11:1 54:10 48:7 49:2,8 dilute 45:11 31:2 32:2
40:19 50:1,5 54:2 dimension 49:21 dropped 12:17
57:20 D 55:8,12,18 direct 28:16 drug 54:7,8
4:16 da 19:21,21,21 58:16 59:3 discusses 37:5 22:2 43:19
10:4 danger 11:5 60:10 discussing 12:24 48:14 54:20
12:2,3 31:17 38:12 detainable 39:7 27:21 56:2
15:6 41:25 45:9 41:7 discussion 58:23 duration 17:16
dangerous detained 5:9 dismissed 56:12 39:16 45:4
27:20 33:22 56:4 9:10,13 24:7 dispel 17:13 dwelling 6:8,9
31:22 day 56:10 58:16 25:18,23,24 disputing 33:9 D.C 1:8,15,18
36:25 days 29:2 28:23 47:21 disrupt 7:17
41:22 dealer 54:9 48:9 51:10 20:20,25 21:18 E
43:6 dealing 41:14 60:4 39:25 E 2:1 3:1,1
entirely 27:11 26:20 46:2 15:20 30:4 19:4 38:11
entitled 35:13 executed 3:20 faithful 53:20 focus 4:6,9,9
entitlement 4:17 executing 3:13 falls 17:17 58:13 follow 23:7 35:3
61:5 entitles 35:12,15 23:9,22 25:3 fanciful 54:24 47:10
24:20 25:14 29:18,20 30:19 far 17:21 36:22 force 34:22
5:1 25:12 55:5 61:5 33:22 37:11,18 farm 18:7,7 forceable 48:4
equally 29:22 54:6 56:5 60:4 fashion 21:1 forcible 55:5
15:17 2:6,9 53:17 52:17 56:9 found 15:25
23:7 establish 23:21 exists 21:4 33:17 feet 24:19 25:6 16:6 19:5
25:1,2,6 everything's explains 41:21 fills 35:19 39:18 40:1
evidence 8:7 56:21 39:7,12 40:12 53:15 54:4
51:11 60:2 extend 9:23 48:21,24 61:11 57:18,19,23
48:16 exact 43:8 60:15 53:16,19 finds 6:7 60:1
56:4 exactly 26:8 extended 7:11 fire 33:12 fraud 51:12
57:9 extension 22:13 first 4:11,14 freestanding
example 20:24 28:5 11:15 14:2 60:9
56:8 23:11,13,14 extremely 15:13 20:15 28:16 friend's 29:25
exception 3:11 F 58:10 25:21 41:24,25
55:14 59:15 facility 38:15 flee 13:10 34:16 10:15
Excuse 14:11 53:22 59:15 47:19 further 53:16
56:13 9:18 11:4 facts 8:17 13:16 12:22 13:2,11 G
48:12,12,13 handcuffs 16:19 11:3 12:5,11 impediment
45:19 54:1 hands 57:8 19:18 21:3 46:16
57:7 55:20 happen 33:16 25:6,10,21 implicating
19:22 60:19 32:9,19 33:4,5 implicit 51:20
14:5 15:8 harder 50:24 40:6,18,19,21 imposed 24:24
52:11 23:12,13 24:10 20:4 26:11 44:18 45:18,20 61:2,13
15:23 31:21 36:25 harm's 48:22 52:19 54:7,15 incriminating
32:7,12 43:6 58:13,18 Head 48:1 61:4 8:7 19:5
39:20 59:22 hear 3:3 34:7 houses 36:8 incumbent
42:6,20 government's held 24:9 hundreds 8:16 22:12
45:16,24 5:16 6:19,20 help 16:12 38:25 husband 51:11 independent
57:11,12 12:2 29:14,17 49:3 54:23 husband's 51:20 49:12
39:8 50:19 51:16 hey 46:9 8:16 9:3 13:4 36:13 41:1
44:3 48:3 59:25 60:6 he'll 32:5 33:25 25:4 30:3 indistinguisha...
49:5 grappling 56:10 hindrance 42:1 36:17,18 49:24 30:15
59:14,17 greater 6:19 historical 60:2 hypotheticals individual 4:21
19:2,9 55:17 holding 14:21 idea 33:10 34:5 9:19 10:7
22:25 guard 21:9 30:7 home 24:1 28:21 51:19 11:10 12:4,6
29:7 48:1,21 29:2,9,19,19 identical 19:10 12:10,11 13:5
42:3 guards 32:23 29:23 32:3 19:12,14 20:5 13:6,9 14:18
45:13 guess 7:2 17:8,8 35:21 36:1,23 20:11,14 15:10 16:10,25
49:24 19:18 36:6 37:6 39:4 identified 20:24 17:12,25 20:18
55:12 37:23 38:18 47:16 50:3 56:22 20:24 21:14,16
gun 30:6 31:7 53:25 44:16 46:1 25:6,9,11,21
20:18 guns 16:1 34:2 hope 49:3 4:2,22,25 5:3,6 27:23,25 28:3
24:15 42:14 43:19 hopefully 9:3 6:5,16 10:5 31:11 37:19
35:7 56:1 hour 21:5 33:18 17:19 18:4,10 46:24 51:7
39:25 guy 7:2 31:19 hours 21:5 29:5 18:13 24:22,24 58:11,14 61:14
41:2 33:19 57:9 27:5 38:15 individualized
44:16 H house 5:14,23 40:7 60:20 3:24 10:10,14
13:13 22:5 51:12 41:20 42:6,20 50:6,9,13 leaving 6:16 8:6
48:18 irrelevant 55:25 43:4,9,10,16 key 49:6 54:19 8:7,9,19,24
issue 9:4 14:5,5 43:23,24 44:12 keys 45:23,23 12:4,11 13:20
7:13 26:1,23 28:16 45:24 46:1,8 kick 25:8 20:18,25 22:1
23:14,20 37:8 46:16,18,19 kids 22:23 24:14 26:6,15
55:24 issues 14:24 47:2,3,4,9,14 killed 38:2 26:16,18,21
48:5,11,15 kind 12:22 28:3 29:19
2:6 28:11 51:15,22 52:1 know 8:25 13:21 35:16,21 36:8
48:24 54:16,19,22,24 20:1,21 22:4,5 41:17 47:16
31:8 34:7 judgment 3:24 57:12,17,22 26:8,8,10 53:25 58:18
36:1 Justice 1:18 3:3 58:4,9 59:24 28:25 31:8,11 59:13
52:10 3:9 4:1,11 5:3 60:14,17,18 34:3,4,6,8,14 left 3:19,20 4:21
54:10 5:11,18,25 6:3 61:6,18 36:7,14,19,22 7:13,15 8:1
32:2 8:5,6,15,21 9:1 12:20,22 24:25 38:19 41:5,9 33:4,17 34:25
9:20 10:2,18 61:9 45:5,7 46:9,14 44:21 58:5
13:12 12:20 13:15 4:20 7:11 8:2 50:13,14 51:19 legitimate 9:25
14:1,7,11,16 11:12,15 12:9 53:21 55:16 48:16 56:3
16:12 17:8,18 25:8 29:22 knows 19:20,22 lengthy 17:6
49:10 18:5,9,16,25 30:17 61:15 22:1 46:7 letting 14:22
19:4 20:7,10 justified 10:14 41:18
34:16 21:11,24 22:10 justifying 59:5 L 1:3 level-headed
42:4 43:8 22:15 23:2,24 large 18:13 47:8
49:9,19 24:18 25:5,13 K 34:21 light 21:22
57:3 25:18,25 26:2 K 1:15 2:3,9 3:6 larger 6:13 lightly 56:7
26:14,17 28:9 58:6 law 13:1,3,12 limit 24:24
30:3,21,25 12:14,20 19:4 49:19 56:3 limited 10:16
32:7,12,17,18 41:5,13,20 58:23 line 4:8,12,15
35:6,11,18 2:3,9 3:6 58:6 30:8 42:2 literally 61:4
51:24 37:13,17 38:4 54:20 58:15 little 43:5
39:5,8,20 40:9 8:21 9:1 43:10 11:11 51:8 39:15
31:22,23 meat 9:3 41:12 occupant's 41:24 42:8
41:23 meet 15:7 32:3 neutral 35:22 28:21 47:20 53:10
47:1 56:3 mere 12:11 13:6 52:13 occurred 16:15 one's 20:11
merely 51:24 nevertheless 5:9 21:22 24:2,4,6 32:9
51:14 52:19 19:25 14:18,20 15:25 29:12
39:13 minimal 49:20 noting 14:3 29:3 oral 1:11 2:2,5
minimizing November 1:9 officers 3:13,18 3:6 28:11
37:1 34:1 50:4 57:9 17:4 24:8 10:7,19 11:16 38:13 57:16
58:5 47:23 50:4 12:4 13:5,18 ordinarily 5:5
34:1 Montieth 55:5 O 2:1 3:1 24:13,25 27:2 outer 53:2
morning 27:22 objection 37:24 27:14 29:7 outlier 36:16
17:19 moving 48:22 58:14,19 60:10 34:20 36:13 10:11 11:3
19:1 20:3 Muehler 39:16 obstreperous 38:12,17 39:1 13:5 19:9,25
23:25 23:16 40:12 41:1 20:22 31:7
35:1 N obstruct 42:17 45:15 46:21 33:12 34:24
40:5 N 2:1,1 3:1 obtained 31:15 47:21 48:8,23 37:15 41:24
42:22 narrow 52:16 obvious 23:19 48:25 54:5 54:14
47:10 natural 24:24 occasions 58:19 56:4 59:3 60:3 outstripping
50:11 naturally 22:24 occupant 29:4,8 61:3,7 52:24
nature 52:5 29:22 30:6 officer's 4:5
25:20 46:4 52:7 57:6 oh 16:18 31:14 P 3:1
49:21 necessity 4:17 30:18 34:19 okay 19:9,14 paramount
need 39:9,9 40:11 45:12 31:14 40:8 20:16
35:16,25 36:3 59:10,23 61:12 practicable 27:8 43:21 47:17
21:22 41:15,17 47:6 pointed 19:4 practical 4:3 55:13 58:1
49:24,25 points 58:9 practice 18:24 probably 22:6
14:22 34:17 37:14 25:15 26:3 premise 43:5 procedure 52:25
26:5 41:7 56:6 58:7 28:25 29:18 51:6 57:23 proceed 26:20
32:24 Petitioner's 30:5 32:10,12 premises 4:22 process 10:8
34:15 29:13 42:2 32:22 33:8 5:14,19 8:9 15:24 29:20
36:7,23 47:1 56:24 36:10,12 37:11 10:6 11:11,22 30:19 37:9,11
40:18 phone 44:22 37:15,17,21,24 15:10 16:20 produce 57:4
46:9 37:24 40:5 17:21 25:15 prolonging
47:10,16 physical 5:6,8 41:1 44:5,11 32:16 35:5 56:20
48:7,21 17:24 18:5 45:13,17 46:14 39:12,13,24 proof 59:4
51:23 26:11 28:22 46:25 47:18 40:7 41:15,16 property 5:7,9
55:17 41:8 48:3 52:7,12 41:18,18 59:13 5:17,21 17:20
pit 48:2 52:19,22 53:12 60:5 61:12 17:24 18:6,17
19:15 21:14 56:17,18 57:5 10:23 11:23 31:19 32:14,16
27:24 28:2 policeman 26:7 44:11 45:14 48:24
53:7,10,13 46:20 15:12 31:24 24:12,17
60:11 61:5 pose 3:21 pretty 6:2 20:4 proposed 18:12
17:2 play 4:8 43:22 poses 4:25 25:11 15:5 proposing 28:19
56:13 posit 27:4,6 prevent 32:23 50:10
22:18,19 position 29:6,14 12:22 13:2,11 57:13
23:20 please 3:9 16:12 possessed 16:10 primary 11:14 protect 53:12
59:3,7 28:14 possibilities principal 61:9 61:8
18:8 21:11 possibly 46:20 probable 3:12 provide 5:10 8:4
19:13 25:9 27:16 post 32:23 34:24 3:23 10:9,15 8:20 9:2 18:18
22:1,21 28:20 31:3 posting 33:10 15:11 16:8,9 27:2 47:25
25:14 33:16,19 42:20 potentially 11:6 35:22 39:3,14 55:22
32:10,19 42:22 43:20 11:23 39:22 40:13 provided 15:14
realities 30:2 recognized 42:4 response 28:16 31:17 48:5,11
38:10 realize 17:9 record 32:5 43:1 results 52:23 58:4 61:18
23:15 reentry 21:9 57:4 Rotelli 39:17
11:14 12:3 regard 4:14 7:12 20:19 24:5,15 routinely 23:21
53:23 27:9 returning 32:4 25:20 26:24,25
12:6 9:16 40:10 reluctant 53:16 reversed 3:25 39:21 40:1,10
14:25,25 42:16 54:17 rely 43:15 right 4:9 5:19 40:15 44:5
16:8
59:1 remain 51:2 7:3 8:9 9:1 47:13 49:15
17:3,4,9 60:25 remand 14:9,10 14:14 26:4 50:5,9,14 52:2
22:8 reasonable 8:12 15:5 31:7 35:12,15 53:10 55:16
33:22,24 8:13 12:13 remember 36:24 37:21,22 58:22,24 59:15
36:6,10 15:7,15 32:5 31:10 37:23,24 38:5 60:23,24 61:7
41:4,9 32:14 35:14,17 reply 29:13 38:7 40:17,22 rules 22:11
49:2,9
40:14 report 13:18 47:14 48:21 27:10 43:25
55:8,15 45:19 47:24 require 54:5 50:3 53:1 54:4 47:10,11
49:8,14,19 required 22:13 54:9,14 60:9 run 47:11,15
53:1,3,4,25 requirement rights 44:4 rush 11:10
58:2,20 59:14 55:13 58:1 15:15 58:20 rushing 10:25
4:6 39:18 44:6 requires 6:19 19:17 20:3 S 2:1 3:1
55:18,20 residence 23:15 43:21 56:6,11 22:23 23:18
52:24 27:18 58:6 56:20 roam 41:23 14:18 17:25
40:23 37:11,18 38:13 seeking 44:4 17:11,23 18:8 Solicitor 1:17
49:12 39:4,25 40:19 59:22 18:12,18 20:6 solution 23:19
52:3 55:9 40:20 41:3,16 seemingly 17:5 20:8,13,23 56:24,25
56:3 41:18 42:13,17 seen 8:19 9:7 21:6,10 22:9 somebody 6:9
53:10 46:7 51:6 52:8 19:20 20:18,24 24:5,23 25:17 32:9 33:5
6:3,25 56:1,25 60:4,7 30:18 36:12 26:19 32:7 38:2 55:11
16:12 60:8,13 61:14 41:1 47:21 58:5,6,8 60:16 somebody's
18:5,9,16 searched 5:15 59:12 60:22 61:10 19:2
32:18,22 12:12 15:11 sees 6:8 9:5 Sherrill 55:2 someplace 42:7
33:2,6 21:15 22:17 seize 53:11,11 shootout 22:20 soon 4:3 27:7
35:6 23:16 25:16 seized 53:8 short 47:18 38:21,23
39:5 27:24 28:2 seizure 44:25 54:11 56:19 sort 4:11 52:22
46:8,16 46:10 53:8,11 60:8 shout 22:3 sorts 21:21
47:2 54:25 58:12 send 6:9 34:22 showing 21:21 Sotomayor 4:1
60:11 sense 40:20 22:12 4:11 13:15
53:18 searches 22:10 sentries 33:10 sidewalk 5:19 14:1,7,17 21:2
57:17,22 searching 6:10 separate 6:22 5:21,22 29:23 21:8,11 28:15
61:6 34:1 14:24 15:1 41:12 52:11 29:11 30:21
8:1,6,7 search-related seriously 34:18 silly 57:4 35:18 43:9,24
17:1 4:19 serve 35:7 57:14 similar 18:14 44:12,15 45:7
21:15 Sears 55:2 59:11 simply 7:14,23 46:1 51:2,15
second 4:3,4,12 served 31:25 9:14 12:8,19 51:22 52:1
30:6 11:16 20:12 42:4 43:8 12:21 13:9 special 13:1 33:3
36:13 28:18 59:10 49:10,10 57:4 16:5 20:17 53:9 58:23
43:2,18 secured 48:1 serves 4:19,23 60:23 61:13 specific 51:1
52:21 secures 30:12 27:12 58:3 single 20:24 59:5
61:14 securing 48:21 serving 56:22 sit 57:8 spread 40:2
5:2 6:7,14 17:22 19:23 seven-tenths sitting 9:5,16 27:5,8 44:6
7:17 8:22 20:11 22:5 25:24 40:7 13:5 20:22 standing 12:21
9:18 10:5 26:10,20 29:3 42:13 25:21 29:3 15:18
11:17 29:19 32:1,12 severely 57:1 situation 9:15 start 10:21 22:3
17:15,16 35:20,21 37:24 Shanmugam 10:19 11:8,20 29:12 57:22
18:22 39:12 40:12,12 1:15 2:3,9 3:5 31:18 49:16 started 46:24
20:20,25 43:7 45:18 3:6,8 4:10 5:5 56:5 60:15 stash 54:7
22:4 52:17 54:7 5:13,20 6:2,18 situations 4:18 state 28:20
24:2,3,4 55:21 56:2,8 7:4,22 8:11,18 22:25 31:23 43:7
25:5,10 56:13,15,18 8:23 9:2 10:1 six 25:21 56:9
26:4 seeing 31:5 11:12,24 12:14 Sixth 30:5 states 1:1,6,12
32:9,23 34:12 37:6 12:19 13:25 slice 16:16 3:4 56:2
34:4,5 49:17 14:2,8,14,23 slight 19:23 station 42:25
36:15 seek 21:17 16:4,12,22 smaller 33:8 43:3
38:10 suggest 27:22 surely 32:22 15:2,24 16:2 53:23 54:17
52:10 60:9 surprising 46:23 16:13,14,15,18 55:25 56:6
58:10 susceptible 9:24 17:10,11,17 third 12:17
14:12,12 suggesting suspicion 3:24 37:4 39:2 44:3 19:15 20:11
15:4 58:15 60:2,23 8:12 10:10,15 44:8,24,25 48:24
16:2 suggests 58:18 10:16 12:13 45:3,6,10,12 thought 21:2
Summers 3:10 13:14 15:7,15 50:17 51:4 38:25
17:2 3:13,18 4:16 17:13 35:14,17 55:14 59:11 threat 3:21 5:1
21:25 5:12,13 8:2 35:25 40:15 test 4:2,3,4,7 6:5,6,16,17
9:24 10:6 45:20 46:5 17:17 38:20,24 23:17 25:11
31:7 11:13 12:18 48:18 49:9,14 38:25 32:18 33:3,4
13:2 17:6 19:3 49:19 50:23 tests 4:1,13 46:12,19
23:5,7,20 24:7 52:2,6,11 Texas 46:21 three 12:16 19:1
42:12 25:8 28:6 53:25 55:15,17 Thank 3:8 28:9 19:3 20:9 35:7
45:4 29:17 30:16,24 58:2,21 59:14 58:4,8 61:17 48:16 55:23
46:3 31:25 34:17 59:18 61:18 56:22
35:7,20,24 sweep 18:20 theoretical 4:11 threshold 54:9
51:14 37:10,21 39:20 T theory 53:15 tie 48:12,12
40:6,10,20 T 2:1,1 they'd 42:21 tied 39:23 44:25
14:20 42:3,9 43:8,25 take 8:25 16:19 thin 16:17 tightly 39:23
49:15,18,22 34:17 36:15 things 37:25 17:12 23:8
37:6 50:21 51:17,23 43:13 44:23 think 7:6,19 8:5 27:17 28:8,23
44:5 52:5,11 53:19 47:1 61:8 8:15 9:9 10:18 30:8 33:23
52:8 53:21,23 56:23 taken 42:24 12:1,19 13:11 34:4 35:21
12:3 59:3,7,7,21 50:3 56:6 15:17 17:3,13 40:16 42:13
61:1 20:3 20:13,15,17 55:11 60:3
23:19 58:25 talking 26:25 24:23 25:17,19 tipping 14:19
support 49:13 41:16 45:3 25:22 27:25 today 29:14 40:3
58:24 31:16 30:14 32:4,11 translate 37:1
49:25 tend 47:8 55:21 37:1 40:9 tries 21:12,13
43:17 use 13:1 39:2,2,3 36:21 37:13 wasn't 5:12,18 zone 10:5,8,11
47:5 39:16 47:13 38:4,8,21 39:5 9:21 43:21
41:5,20 42:19 way 37:14 41:22 1 1:9
52:15 v 1:5 3:4,10 7:7 44:8,14,23 46:6,6 48:22 11:04 1:13 3:2
12:16,23 validity 61:1 50:6,11,15 we're 4:12 26:25
13:19 valuable 47:25 51:15,25 52:4 38:16 40:3,4 2
19:1,8 57:3 58:3 53:18 55:1,10 40:15 44:19,21 2 21:5
34:22,24 vast 55:25 57:12,22 48:12,12,13 20 50:4
55:22 vicinity 4:2,22 wander 13:6 49:12,17 52:15 2008 33:14
10:6 want 7:2 11:9 53:18 55:10 2012 1:9
28:4 29:17 44:18 45:11 wife 51:12,18,19 3 2:4 50:4 58:5
51:22 52:4 5
30:1
violent 47:22 warrant 3:14,16 26:23 35:13 50 24:19 25:6
48:6 volatile 56:5 10:19 11:4,16 35:24 58 2:10
voluntarily 15:9 17:15,16 work 10:4 36:9 9
60:1,19 9:00 49:25
28:22 41:2,6,17
wait 22:21 23:3 31:6,6,10,11 workplace 28:1
47:6 waiting 19:9 33:22 37:7,12 worried 22:20
21:8 30:7 45:2,4 46:2 wouldn't 7:22
walks 24:19 warrants 23:22
59:22 28:10,11,13,15 60:4 x 1:2,7
31:15,20 32:11 warrant-confe... Y
