IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
AMERICAN TRUCKING :
ASSOCIATIONS, INC., :
Petitioner : No. 11-798
v. :
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, :
CALIFORNIA, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 16, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:17 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DANIEL N. LERMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
JOHN F. BASH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United
States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner.
STEVEN S. ROSENTHAL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DANIEL N. LERMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN F. BASH, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioner 19
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
STEVEN S. ROSENTHAL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 30
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DANIEL N. LERMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:17 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 11-798, American Trucking
Associations v. City of Los Angeles.
Mr. Lerman?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DANIEL N. LERMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. LERMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case is about the plain text of the
FAAAA express preemption clause and the continuing
vitality of this Court's decision in Castle v. Hayes
Freight Lines.
I'd like to start by showing why the Port's
requirements here fall within the text of the statute
and cannot be saved by any market participant exception.
The FAAAA provides that no State or
political subdivision of a State may enact or enforce
any law, regulation, or other provision having the force
and effect of law related to rates, routes, and services
of a motor carrier. The only statutory language at
issue here is the force and effect of law requirement.
And the Port's actions have the force and effect of law
under any reasonable interpretation of the phrase.
The Port is imposing binding standards of
conduct on motor carriers as a condition of accessing a
channel of interstate commerce. The Port is enforcing
those requirements through criminal penalties -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that the Port
said we don't apply criminal penalties which come from
the tariff, we don't apply those to licensed motor
carriers. They made that representation, so I think we
have to accept that as being so.
MR. LERMAN: They -- they did make that
representation and we could accept that, but it's
irrelevant because the Port is still imposing the
criminal penalties on the terminal operators. And when
a State is imposing criminal penalties, that is classic
governmental action, the State acting in its sovereign
capacity, regardless of whom the penalties are imposed
upon. And in this Court's decision in Roe, it made
clear that States could regulate trucking activity
through penalties, in that case civil penalties, imposed
only on people who do business with truckers.
Here, the State's requirements are coming at
the truckers from both ends. On the one end, you have
the criminal penalties imposed on the terminal operators
to coerce their conduct and exclude truckers. On the
other hand, you have the tariff which puts conditions on
access to the Port of Los Angeles, which is a key
channel of interstate commerce.
So the Port's requirements here have the
force and effect of law in spades, because using -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I break down your
arguments into two components, if you might? Whether or
not the market participant exception exists at all; and
if it does, how far does it go?
So, let's get to the first question in my
mind. Seems almost impossible for me to believe that
the States couldn't require someone to put a little
placard like you get at the -- at almost any building
that you go into to park your car. They ask you to put
a little placard in the front of your window so they
know who you are and where you're going in the Port,
okay?
Why is the placard requirement here any
different than that requirement generally? Because if
you enter property, you have -- most people tell you put
a placard in the window to tell us you got permission to
come in.
MR. LERMAN: It's -- it's different in this
case, Your Honor, because -- in addition to the overlay
that 14506 specifically targets identification
requirements, and -- and for purposes of this case,
it's -- but I understand -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But even if that, if we
didn't have a market participant, why couldn't the State
say: When you come into the terminal, you just got to
put a little placard in so we know that you're not
parking here overnight when you've already been unloaded
or something else?
MR. LERMAN: I think you need to look to the
particulars of this case, and the -- and the fact is
that the placard requirement here is codified into an
ordinance, it's backed by criminal penalties, and it's
restricting access to a channel of commerce. Because we
have all those factors here, it has the force and effect
of law.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could the terminal say,
we have a pollution problem and only modern trucks can
come and unload here?
MR. LERMAN: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So they have to take
trucks that are too heavy for this crane to lift?
MR. LERMAN: Heavy is a different scenario,
Justice Sotomayor, because there's an express exception
to the FAAAA for weight and size restrictions. So
Congress carved out a series of exceptions for the FAAAA
for safety requirements, which gets to part of your
question, for height and weight and size limits, for
requirements pertaining to the transport of
nonconsensual goods and the like. It did not create a
proprietary exception. So a lot of Your Honor's
concerns may well be covered by one of these other
exceptions.
But there is no exception for a proprietary
action. If it has the force and effect of law and it
does not fall within one of the enumerated exceptions to
the statute, then it is preempted under the terms that
Congress used.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even though -- even though
a related statute did -- did make an exception for
proprietary action, isn't that right? The FAAAA?
MR. LERMAN: The ADA.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The ADA.
MR. LERMAN: Yes, that's quite right, and
precisely because that statute contained an exception
and this Court has recognized that when Congress enacted
the FAAAA, it copied the ADA, and it copied the express
preemption clause, but it -- Congress chose not to
include that proprietary exception.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we know why, why
Congress had a different regulation for ports and for
airfields?
MR. LERMAN: I don't believe the record -
the legislative history doesn't show why. But Congress
thought, clearly copied the statute and made the
decision not to include it.
So by the terms of the statute, Congress
wrote a statute that preempts any action with the force
and effect of law, and it chose not to carve out an
exception for proprietary action which, as you say, Your
Honor, was included in the Airline Deregulation Act.
So that just lends added force to the
argument that the Act here does not contain an unstated
exception, an exception that Congress has created not
only for the ADA, which is the express model for this
Act, but in a host of other statutes where Congress
carved out specific exceptions for proprietary actions.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Except in Boston Harbor,
we said that there was a presumption in favor of it
unless Congress explicitly indicated to the contrary.
MR. LERMAN: Well, Boston Harbor spoke to
express or implied indication of congressional intent.
Here there is express indication of congressional
intent, which is an express preemption provision
dictating the term -- the scope of preemption. And
Boston -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Boston Harbor was implied
preemption, right?
MR. LERMAN: That's correct, Your Honor, it
was implied preemption. There was no express preemption
clause to construe, and that language is in the context
of an implied preemption case. Here, as Justice Scalia
notes, we have an express preemption clause, and we have
a clause that has carveouts for a lot of things, but it
does not have a carveout for proprietary action. And
that is -- that is the best evidence as Congress has
intended.
This Court has stated, when there's an
express preemption clause, the plain language of the
clause defines the scope of Congress's intent. And here
the plain meaning of the clause covers actions as here
that are backed by criminal penalties and impose
conditions of access to a key channel of interstate
commerce.
That is the very definition of force and
effect of law. The Port is invoking the full coercive
power of the State to impose conditions on motor
carriers, and that is exactly what Congress sought to
prevent. Congress sought to prevent State actions that
impede the free flow of trade or that would result in a
patchwork of requirements from jurisdiction to
jurisdiction.
That is what the Port's doing here. It -
it conflicts with Congress's objectives and it falls
within the text of the statute. And it cannot be saved
by virtue of a market participant exception that, by
Respondent's own admission, is untethered from the text
of the statute itself for the reasons that we've
discussed. Congress made quite clear what it wanted to
except from the broad scope of preemption, and this
Court has reinforced the breadth of preemption, and did
not include -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do we need to get into
the market exception if we find that this is -- has the
force or effect of law rather than being a private
contract?
MR. LERMAN: No. If this has the force and
effect -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's one or the other -
or both, but we could choose.
MR. LERMAN: It either has the force and
effect of law or it doesn't. If it has the force and
effect of law, it falls within the scope of the express
preemption clause and this Court does not need to
address any of that.
I'd like to turn my -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Some -- some of the rules
are okay, though, as you acknowledge, and I guess
there's a second question in the case.
MR. LERMAN: There is. Thank you -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You were about to get into
that anyway.
MR. LERMAN: I was going to, but thank you,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. LERMAN: I was going to get to the
second question in the case, which is this Court's
decision in Castle v. Hayes Freight Lines. In Castle,
this Court held that -- that a State cannot enforce
otherwise valid requirements through a partial
suspension of a motor carrier's federally granted right
to operate in interstate commerce.
That is precisely the authority that the
Port is claiming here. The Port is claiming the
authority to suspend or revoke motor carrier's access to
the Port of Los Angeles, the largest container port in
the United States and a key channel of interstate
commerce. That would affect -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That matters -- that
matters in your view whether it's a key component of
commerce or not. If it's -- if it's a particular
highway, a particular street, you think Castle doesn't
apply in that case?
MR. LERMAN: Your Honor, Mr. Chief Justice,
Castle spoke to partial suspensions of a motor carrier's
right to operate interstate commerce and I think it
cannot be denied that in this case, because of the
nature of the Port, it is -- it would affect a partial
suspension. I don't think this Court needs to get into
single roads and I don't think there's any reason -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I think you
have to get into it since I asked you a question about
it.
(Laughter.)
MR. LERMAN: You're quite right,
Mr. Chief Justice. I don't see any reason to let that
camel's nose under the tent. If it's a partial -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or maybe you should stop
referring to a key component of interstate commerce. It
doesn't matter whether it's key or not, does it?
MR. LERMAN: That's quite correct. It would
affect the partial suspension of interstate commerce, it
would seriously disrupt their interstate commerce
operations. This falls within Castle's exact terms.
And Congress has not -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So they say there's
this particular road, through a State park or something,
that's scenic, and sometimes the trucks drive on the
side of the road and it causes damage to what the
State's trying to preserve, and they have a rule: Look,
if you do that three times and we warn you, the fourth
time you can't use this road. That is preempted?
MR. LERMAN: That is -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There is another
road not too far away. You've got to use that one.
MR. LERMAN: That is preempted under Castle.
The conventional forms of punishment might include the
three times and we fine an individual truck. But that's
what the situation was in Castle. You can't punish a
violation of an otherwise valid regulation through a
partial suspension of interstate commerce. And I think
that would qualify.
And Castle is -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Castle's didn't say that,
Mr. Lerman. What if the Court is just saying, we want
to keep unsafe trucks off the road, but we're not
prohibiting you for past violations that you've cured.
All we're doing is keeping unsafe trucks out of our
port.
MR. LERMAN: Justice Kagan, the conventional
forms of punishment include, as we acknowledge, taking
an unsafe truck out of service or denying access. If -
if the truck is leaking hazardous material, the port can
deny access to that particular truck.
The key -- the key problem here is the
carrier-level suspension of access. And so saying,
because that one truck of the carrier might be leaking
hazardous material, we are not going to let any trucks,
even perfectly safe trucks that don't present any
present -- clear and present safety risk -- into the
port until you fix that unsafe truck.
And that's the authority reserved by the
State in this case, and that is what Castle said is
preempted. And so we are not denying the authority to
invoke what Castle called conventional forms of
punishment, which we would concede includes the -- the
type of punishment Your Honor's contemplating, but what
it doesn't allow is a -- a suspension of access to a
motor carrier as a business entity.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But why does that -- why
does it have to be truck by truck rather than operator
by operator? Why can't the port say, you know, when we
found a couple of trucks that this company uses that are
unsafe, we're just going to keep the company off our
premises until the company can show us that they've
cured all their trucks, that they are a safe operator
now.
MR. LERMAN: Because that's what Castle
dealt with, Your Honor. And I was going to turn to the
statutory scheme in Castle, which is Castle's decision
was predicated on a statutory scheme that gave the
Federal Government exclusive authority to grant
interstate commerce permits -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does the Federal Government
inspect trucks for safety and -
MR. LERMAN: It has regulatory -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- leaking hazardous
materials and such?
MR. LERMAN: I don't know that it inspects
it directly, and it has provisions for States to do
that. But the Federal Government still under 49 U.S.C.
13905 has exclusive authority to revoke a Federal -- a
motor carrier's Federally granted operating authority.
And so there are significant rights that States have to
impose -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Has it ever done that?
MR. LERMAN: I don't know if it's ever done
that, but what it has done is -- is what Castle said,
which is -- is -- there was no reason to -- to deny that
the conventional forms of punishment are sufficient to
protect the State's safety concerns, and then if they
are not sufficient there was then and there still exists
a remedy, which is to go to the Department of
Transportation and ask them.
And that remedy exists to this day under 49
U.S.C. 13905. The same statutory scheme that was
present in Castle and animated this Court's decision in
Castle is present today. So if they have a safety
concern, there are ways to deal with it.
They can do what Justice Kagan suggested,
which is to deny access to a particular truck. They can
go to the Department of Transportation and ask for -
for some type of action. But what they can't do is
assert the veto power that this Court held was precluded
in Castle and in the city of Chicago cases, and that is
precisely the veto power that they are asserting here.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can I make a somewhat -
this is how I'm seeing the case and there is some
mystery in it to me and it would affect how I might
write this thing or consider it.
Look, what they want to do is to not have
trucks park in the neighborhood on the street, and they
want to put a tag on it. All right. So the second -
you seem to have said what they should have done: You
go to the NTSB and you ask, and they do it. They
approve it or they don't.
And their -- their problem is that they
don't want 40 or 50 States each saying a different
sticker, all right? So then the whole back fills up
with stickers and that's the problem. That's the
problem. You go explain, et cetera, okay.
But the first part, the parking, it seemed
to me of course they should be able to do that. And
there seems to me to be a tailor-made exception: The
authority of the State to impose highway route controls
or limitations. And if that isn't tailor-made for this,
I don't know what is, I mean, I don't know what it's
doing there. And so why has nobody done that?
When I read the lower court on that, they
said: Oh, it affects fares and it affects services.
Every route restriction affects fares and services, you
know? So here I see an exception which seems
tailor-made for what they want to do. I see all kinds
of problems with the proprietary thing. What am I
supposed to do? What -- what I see as the exception
tailor-made for this isn't in the case.
MR. LERMAN: I think that's -
JUSTICE BREYER: So what do you suggest?
And it's a question for both sides.
MR. LERMAN: You're right that it's not in
the case, Your Honor. It's not in the case because the
only issue here was whether it has the force and effect
of law, because that's what the court below held. The
court below held that these could escape preemption
because the port was acting arguably in part by a
motivation for community goodwill.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you agree with
that -- that that provision would apply? I don't see
that it applies.
MR. LERMAN: I don't know if it applies.
That was going to be the second answer.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Route restrictions?
MR. LERMAN: I don't think this is a route
restriction. I don't know if it would qualify, and that
would be -
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, you can't say,
don't drive our truck through the neighborhood? This is
residential area, no trucks over such-and-such. If you
can say that, why can't you say do it part of the time?
Why can't you say -- we're arguing a different question.
I agree it is not -
MR. LERMAN: Not only are we arguing a
different question, I think that gets to -- and I would
like to answer this question and then reserve my time
for rebuttal if I might.
But that gets to the "related to" question:
Is that in fact related to rates, routes, and services
with respect to the transportation of property? That
sometimes is a more factual inquiry. But that is not at
issue here. The only issue here is whether it can
escape preemption because the Port was arguably
motivated in part by a proprietary concern such as
community goodwill.
None of those words are in the statute,
which preempts all actions that have the force and
effect of law, and they are preempted on this basis.
And I would like to reserve my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Bash, welcome.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN F. BASH,
FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. BASH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think the city
could pass a regulation like as Justice Breyer
suggested, that says, stay off residential streets?
MR. BASH: Well, if the city were to pass
that regulation, they'd have to make out a record that
it either -- it comes within one -- one of the
exceptions. Now, it could have been the safety
exception. The Port argued for that here and the
district court rejected it on the record after hearing
testimony about the alleged safety and hazardous cargo
justifications.
They didn't make an argument under sizes and
weights. Presumably, they could make that record.
You'd have to see about the strength of their
justifications. I'd note that I -- it would probably be
the case they would have to apply uniformly to trucks of
a given size or weights. Here, they were only going
after drayage trucks, which are a particular category of
trucks. I don't know if they could make that showing
with respect to all trucks or if that was their intent
here.
I would like to turn, if I could, to Justice
Ginsburg's question about the criminal penalties in this
case. We accept the Port's statement in their brief on
face value that the criminal penalties would only fall
on the marine terminal operators. But, like Petitioner,
we don't think that makes a difference.
If, for example, the State Highway
Commission said, okay, certain trucks can't use our
roads unless you sign a certain agreement, but don't
worry, if you don't agree to abide by that agreement we
won't do anything to you, but we will throw every person
who does business with you in jail.
Whatever else you could say about that
scheme, I think it would be pretty clear that it would
be the act of a sovereign and so it would have the force
and effect of law within the meaning of this statute.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Bash, what would you
think of this case if the criminal penalties were taken
out of it? In other words, if the Port did this all
through contract, basically said to each terminal
operator, look, if you contract with truckers that don't
have this concession agreement, we are going to charge
you a higher price.
So -- so if the criminal penalties were not
in the case, is there enough here to still make this the
force and effect of law?
MR. BASH: Yes. We think not only is there
enough here, but there's another sort of a bright-line
rationale before you get into the Boston Harbor sort of
understanding of if this is regulatory or market
participant. And that's the second factor we cite in
our brief, which is we don't consider the Port the
equivalent of the cement factory in Reeves, like a
commercial enterprise that you might see in the private
marketplace.
This port authority, like I think virtually
all other port authorities in charge of these massive
container ports, hold land much like a highway
commission in trust for the public.
This is not private property ownership. If
you look at all the different metrics of success the
court of appeals pointed to and the district court
pointed to and I think the port points to in their
brief, they are not bottom line business metrics like
shareholder value and dividends and so forth.
It's economic vitality of the region. It's
the number of jobs it brought to the L.A. area. That is
not the mark of a commercial enterprise. It's the mark
of a regulatory body. It's something a mayoral
candidate might point to.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's not
true. I mean, a commercial enterprise might want to
attract customers because of its reputation as a -- as a
green company, because of its reputation of hiring local
workers.
I think you have too confined a notion of
what's good business.
MR. BASH: I think it's true that Wal-Mart
might say: Hey, we don't do business with labor law
violators, or we adhere to certain environmental
practices, as part of a marketing campaign. But I think
what this Court said in Boston Harbor was that, yeah, a
private business could boycott labor law -- law
violators too, and, in a sense, the private business
would be engaged in quote-unquote regulation.
But when the Government does that, when the
Government uses its special place in society and its
enormous economic power to effectively leverage its
power to impose regulation, that's -- that's
fundamentally different, and that is not the Government
acting in a market capacity even though, sure, Wal-Mart
or Starbucks could do a similar thing.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it part of your
argument that the city contracts with the port and then
the port contracts with the truckers, but at that point,
the ports are -- are confined in what they can do?
There can be really no bargaining between the ports and
the truckers based on what the city has already told the
port?
MR. BASH: Justice Kennedy, that -- that's
like our third order argument. I mean, our first order
argument is criminal penalties and just the nature of a
port and -- the Port doesn't contract with the city.
The Port is a department of the city, and its members
are appointed by the mayor and its revisions to the
tariff are codified in city ordinances. So it's in
every way a part of the city, it's not just a
contractual relationship.
We think just the criminal penalties here
and the nature of what a port is. A port -- a
regulatory body that governs a critical part of public
infrastructure is enough to resolve this case. If you
think no, the criminal penalties don't matter and this
Port is more like the cement factory in Reeves, it's
really just a plain vanilla commercial enterprise, we do
think the fact that it's leveraging significant economic
power, that it's the only place in L.A. to do this
business, is part of this sort of Gould market
participant analysis.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Bash, how then do you
deal with the problem that precipitated all of this?
Here is a port that's getting lots of complaints from
the neighborhood people. It wants to expand the port,
it's being thwarted by environmental suits, so it wants
to go green and it wants to do something about the
pollution and the traffic and the hazards from the
truck. You're saying that it can't do that?
MR. BASH: We're -- we're not saying it has
no recourse. And I just note parenthetically that the
same could be true of any state highway commission
that's contemplating an expansion of a highway project.
They could face similar suits based on environmental
complaints. They could face similar community
opposition: We don't want these huge trucks coming
through our neighborhood. That doesn't make the decrees
and acts of a highway commission, particularly if backed
by criminal penalties, acts that lack enforcement.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And how could a port
respond to the complaints if you're making this -- this
neighborhood around the Port an environmental hazard?
And so we're going to make sure that our representatives
vote against any expansion of the Port.
MR. BASH: To -- to deal with that sort of
effectively political opposition, community opposition,
I think the Port retains a lot of flexibility under the
statute to address them.
If you look at page 90 through 93 of the
Pet. App, it discusses the extensive incentive programs
that the Port established. 35 percent of the drayage
trucks currently serving the Port, or at least at the
time the district court's opinion was written, are new,
clean trucks that don't have the same emissions problem.
JUSTICE BREYER: But wait. Why isn't the --
I mean, I thought that the purpose of these
exceptions -- of course cities can have parking
regulations. Of course States and cities can have
regulations involving trucks as to how and where they
use the highways and which ones they can't use and which
routes, et cetera. That's the purpose of that
exception, isn't it? I mean, I -- I thought that's what
it was.
And, of course, you're quite right in saying
they should have to do it uniformly. It says based on
size and weight. Okay. Fine. What's the problem with
that, that I'm not seeing?
MR. BASH: I took Justice Ginsburg's
question to be addressing a slightly different point.
The exceptions are for things like safety, hazardous
cargo -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, it says, "The
authority of a state to impose highway route controls or
limitations based on the size and weight of the motor
vehicle or the -- or hazard -- or hazardous nature."
And it's size and weight, hazardous nature. I mean,
isn't there room in those words to include environmental
consideration?
MR. BASH: There -- there may be. It's
obviously an issue that hasn't been briefed in this
case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think there is.
You think there is? He's saying that you can answer
questions.
JUDGE BREYER: I -- I myself don't know.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Seems to me the answer is
no.
MR. BASH: But I -- I just wanted to
emphasize for Justice Ginsburg, though, that there are a
lot of things that ports and other -- other municipal
entities can do to address environmental concerns. And
they've been done in this case.
It is the replacement of these trucks, which
was done through a subsidy and incentive program that's
remarkably similar to the one this Court blessed as
market participation in Hughes that allowed these
extensive emission reductions that the Port's seen.
That sort of direct participation in the market has all
the hallmarks of what we don't have here. It's not
enforced through criminal penalties. It's not the -
the Port acting as a regulator of this public
infrastructure. It's actually entering the drayage
market and purchasing trucks, effectively becoming a
part owner of the truck.
So I do think that the Port has extensive
authority to address environmental concerns within the
confines of this preemption statute.
The Chief Justice asked about the Castle
question, whether it matters or what if you just didn't
want a road or what's the size of it?
I will say that the court in Castle seemed
to think it made a difference, the sort of size of the
imposition, but I don't think it needs to make a
difference anymore because we have a direct preemption
statute.
We think that the logic of Castle applies
not only in the context of the licensing scheme that has
changed but was effectively in place during Castle, but
under Section 14501(c) itself. 14501(c) says States
can't pass regulations that relate to prices, routes,
and services, but it also gives States safety exceptions
and so forth. And there needs to be a reconciliation of
those two provisions.
I think we'd all agree that if a State -- if
a truck committed two safety infractions, you couldn't
say, well, now we're going to regulate your prices,
routes, and services as punishment for that infraction.
This -- the framework we've set forth in the Castle
portion of our brief I think is a reasonable
reconciliation of the State -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you -- do you think
that a statute that says if you're trucking company
operator and you have three violations of X safety
regulations, you just can't use our highways because we
don't trust you, is that okay?
MR. BASH: No, that's certainly not okay.
We think that fails under both the holding of Castle and
just under the current expansion provision, which is
maybe the easier way to do it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why? Why isn't it a
standard fact that States and cities use to stop people
from repetitive violations to tell them, if you keep
doing this and don't remedy what you've done, we're just
not going to let you do X, Y, and Z? Why wouldn't the
safety violate -
MR. BASH: Well, it should be clear at the
outset that we're not talking about people; we're
talking about motor carriers as an ongoing enterprise.
So we're not saying an individual can't have their
license revoked.
Are you finished with the question?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish your answer.
MR. BASH: But more broadly, we think the
Federal regulatory scheme in combination with this
preemption provision just bars States from taking
certain actions that would affect the interstate
operations of motor carriers.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Rosenthal?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN S. ROSENTHAL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. ROSENTHAL: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
At issue today are two provisions contained
in a contract between commercial actors. They set forth
conditions under which drayage trucks can enter the
nonpublic portions of the Port, and they are
indistinguishable, indistinguishable from contract
provisions that private parties routinely impose on
those who seek to enter their property. In our view,
the FAAAA does not deal with contracts, and it doesn't
deal with the right of landowners to condition those
seeking entry into their Port.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What exception do you
appeal to? There are a number of exceptions there.
MR. ROSENTHAL: What -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What exception are you
appealing to from the -- from the preemption provision?
MR. ROSENTHAL: Your Honor, my first -- my
first exception is the actual force and effect of law.
We do not believe -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's a different
point, but -- but you're -- you're talking about, you
know, an exception for private contract operations as
opposed to public matters.
MR. ROSENTHAL: We're -
JUSTICE SCALIA: There are exceptions to the
preemption and that is not one of them. And other
statutes do have exceptions for -- for commercial
operations or private operations. This one doesn't.
MR. ROSENTHAL: With -- with due respect,
the statute says "law, regulation, or provision having
the force and effect of law." That's a -- that's
something which applies to the general public. We
submit that what we are calling the market participant
exception, what it is generally congruent with, what is
meant by Congress by the term "force and effect of law."
The Sixth -- the Fifth Circuit in Cardinal said that the
market participant analysis should inform what is meant
by force and effect of law. We're not -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do market participants
impose civil and criminal penalties?
MR. ROSENTHAL: Ah. I think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ah. Yes.
MR. ROSENTHAL: The answer is no, but I
think the criminal penalties is a red herring in this
case, and if you will --if you'll just indulge me a
moment, the concession agreement everyone concedes does
not include any criminal penalties. The tariff which
applies to the marine terminal operators, yes, it
contains a criminal penalty, but the criminal penalty is
not included in this tariff against the marine terminal
operators. It's intended for other purposes.
We have no recollection of a cargo operation
ever having had a criminal penalty. Yes, it's in there,
there is a misdemeanor penalty but it applies to people
like trespassers, people who perform traditional
criminal acts.
There is evidence in the record. I asked
the director, the deputy director of the Port, how do
you enforce these requirements, and his answer was,
primarily through our lease contract. Obviously, we
don't want to do away with the -- with our lessor, but
there is no indication, and there is no fact on the
record that these criminal penalties which our opponents
keep dredging up are ever used against MTO's.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that how we decide these
things? When there is on the books a criminal penalty
that can apply to everybody, do we let the State come in
and say: Oh, you know, no harm, no foul because it's on
the books but we -- we don't really use it. Well, I
don't know -- I don't know that we do that. If it's
there, it's a criminal penalty, and if -- if the
condition of -- of -- of you're being able to impose
these limitations is that you not have criminal
penalties, there is a criminal penalty.
MR. ROSENTHAL: Justice Scalia, first of
all, the direct criminal penalty doesn't apply to the
truckers at all.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. ROSENTHAL: So the argument is, this is
an indirect effect, and what I'm trying to argue is the
indirect effect is not criminal in nature. Yes, there
is a criminal provision. But I'm saying as a practical
matter, criminal penalties aren't used indirectly to
enforce this prohibition.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but like a lot
of criminal penalties, that's the whole point. They
keep people from doing crimes. It doesn't seem to me to
be very probative to say we've never had to throw
anybody in jail or we never had to prosecute anybody
criminally. They have a coercive effect that a private
operator cannot avail itself of.
MR. ROSENTHAL: But, Mr. Chief Justice,
usually criminal penalties apply to the public. The
reason I'm bringing this up is we have an entirely
separate and much more robust relationship with our own
tenants through the lease. The lease is the way this is
enforced. Criminal penalties -- no MTO thinks for a
second about the criminal penalty. They think about the
contractual relationship.
And that's an important point here because
what we're talking about and what's central here is the
management of land which we own, which we will not,
underscore "not," be able to grow and develop unless we
have some modicum of control. And we are not talking
about expansive control here, but some modicum of
control over who enters our land.
Let me make one additional point which I
think is terribly important. The owner of land -- the
owner of land has to have some control of the type which
ATA and the Government says we can't have control over.
I will give you a simple example where we cut a hole in
our fence and say the trucks can come in, you can come
in on Navy Way but you can't come in on Prospect Street.
That under a strict definition of the statute would be
prohibited to us. But you can't prohibit a landowner
from saying: You've got to identify yourself.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's why the route
regulation thing is the exception. But the State of
California decides -
MR. ROSENTHAL: But we're not acting -
JUSTICE BREYER: Pardon me. I know you're
not. The State of California decides: Here's what we
have: A State public utilities commission which issues
a tariff, and what the tariff says is anyone who
contracts with a person in this State, a property owner,
to move his goods and services, cannot charge less than
$30 a pound. All right? Plainly preempted.
And your case differs because?
MR. ROSENTHAL: My case differs because we
are not dealing directly with rates, routes or services.
We are not regulating. We are -
JUSTICE BREYER: You're saying it falls
outside the definition of "routes." Well, that argument
is not in front of us. I mean, I thought we were
conceding here it falls within the definition of routes
or rates or services.
MR. ROSENTHAL: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: The parking regulation -
MR. ROSENTHAL: That question was -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if it doesn't fall
within, then I'm not sure what we're talking about,
because I thought the problem was that it does fall
within the rates, routes and services, and then the
question is, is there proprietary exception, et cetera.
MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, the -- the answer -
our position is that even if it is rates, routes and
services, that what we are doing is not regulation, that
this is proprietary.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's why I asked you, and
how does it differ from the hypothetical I just put.
MR. ROSENTHAL: I think -- I think -- it
differs from that because we're not prescribing any -
if we are describing -- if we are prescribing it, it's
inherent within our ability to access our particular
land.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You are saying that you
can do by contract what you cannot do by regulation.
And I don't understand that argument when there are
criminal penalties that attach to the breach of the
contract.
MR. ROSENTHAL: But, Justice Kennedy, let me
say again, there are no criminal penalties that attach
to the breach of the contract. It is purely a contract.
The remedies are purely civil. Even our other side in
their argument has conceded there are no criminal
penalties to the breach of the concession agreement.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure that's
crucial. You think a state can say nobody's going to
come on our highways until it signs a contract? Okay?
These highways belong to us, they are State land, and
anybody who wants to ride on the highways, you have to
enter a contract with the State. And that's going to
get around this Federal statute?
MR. ROSENTHAL: No, no, no. Justice Scalia,
there is a critical distinction here. The roads, the
bridges, the parks are open generally to the public.
There is a difference between that and the private part
of the city hall. For example, we restrict who comes
into the garage under the city hall. We restrict who
comes -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. It's a highway only
for trucks. It's a truck highway. Okay? It's
specially reinforced and everything, but you have to
enter a contract with the State in order to drive your
truck on this highway. And that's okay?
MR. ROSENTHAL: But we're not -- we're not
dealing with that hypothetical.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I know we're not. That's
why it's a hypothetical.
MR. ROSENTHAL: But there's a difference,
and let me give you the difference, Justice Scalia. And
that is in this particular case we are dealing with a
business, a commercial enterprise. And I think the
appropriate standard which we would contend controls
whether force and effect of law, market participant
applies, is whether this was an action taken, reasonably
taken to deal with a genuine commercial interest of the
Port.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. The State makes
money on this truck highway. It's a money-maker, okay?
MR. ROSENTHAL: No, no, we're not -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that makes it okay?
MR. ROSENTHAL: No. We are not prepared to
concede that making money is sufficient, taxes are
sufficient. We have findings in the district court here
that this was undertaken to advance a commercial
objective, that commercial objective being to allow the
port to grow. This -- the city undertakes regulatory
activities.
It runs a police department, it runs -- it
runs a fire department, public works. It does, in the
case of the city of Los Angeles, run three enterprises:
A port, an airport, and a power and water department.
That is substantively different than running the public
roads and the bridges.
And we believe what's critical to this
analysis and what we have extensive findings from the
district court is that this was run as a business, like
the cement plant, like the Boston Harbor. Boston Harbor
I think I would posit is far closer case, it seems to me
than what we're dealing with here, which are marine
terminals.
But nonetheless, in Boston Harbor this Court
held that the regulation of who could work in Boston
Harbor, the circumstances fell within the market
participant doctrine.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It was implied preemption
in Boston Harbor. Here you have an express preemption
clause which contains exceptions, and among those
exceptions is not the running of a commercial
enterprise, even though that is made an exception in a
number of other Federal statutes, Federal preemption
statutes. That's a very high hill for you to climb,
relying solely on the fact that you are a commercial
enterprise.
MR. ROSENTHAL: It's not the only thing,
Justice Scalia, I'm relying on. I'm also relying on the
language which Congress put in, which are words of the
limitation, which is force and effect of law.
If Congress had not -- had said any
requirement by the Port, any requirement by a city
whatsoever, I believe we'd have a closer case. But
they're only talking about things which have application
to the general public.
We submit that force and effect of law
almost invites a market participant analysis.
Let me also respond to your point about the
ADA, the Airport Deregulation Act. The reason there is
a limited exception for airport proprietors, as this
Court has held, is because there was a longstanding
issue about airports being able to impose restrictions
about noise pollution on surrounding communities.
Congress was well aware back in the 1970s,
when this statute was enacted, of that controversy and
they wanted to preserve of the existing rights of
airports. There is no comparable controversy with
respect to truck ports or ports or the Government that
was ongoing in 1994 when this particular statute was
adopted.
But let me point out that what did -- did
occur in 1994 was that Congress was writing against the
backdrop of this Court's decision in the Boston Harbor
case, in which Congress was told that in the absence of
something express, which says that a city or State can't
manage its own property when it pursues its proprietary
interests, that there would not be inferred -- not be
inferred -- a restriction on a State's power to manage
its own property.
So, unlike the situation when the ADA was
adopted, when the FAAAA was adopted in 1994, there was,
we submit, a background principle, which this Court had
enunciated earlier, that there was a presumption that
our proprietary powers were to be preserved.
If -- if I can, I'd like to go on to the
Castle argument as well. Our point -- we make three
different points in Castle. First of all, our position
is that the Castle decision was predicated upon a very
specific statutory regime that existed in -- under the
Federal Motor Carrier Act of 1935.
Justice Black specifically noted the details
of that statutory regime, which included certificates of
convenience and necessity, very precise rules under
which trucks were to operate within -- within the United
States.
That regime has died. Died several decades
ago. And we would submit that the Castle doctrine as it
existed died with that regime.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Rosenthal, could I
interrupt you for a second and just make sure I
understand what your policy is? Who do you exclude from
the Port? What trucks -- what trucks or what trucking
companies do you exclude?
MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, in fact, we don't
exclude anybody from the Port. We simply ask that those
trucks that come on to port property sign a nonexclusive
concession agreement which agrees to certain conditions.
So drayage trucks that come on, on a regular
basis, have to sign these conditions. We would point
out that people who operate at our Port intermittently
can get day passes. And generally speaking -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what if they
violate those conditions? I mean, that's -- that's
where the -- that's where the shoe pinches. What if
they violate those contractual conditions? Then do you
exclude only the truck that violates it, or do you
exclude the whole trucking company?
MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, we -- we -- there's a
gradation of remedies. We don't -- we have -- we have
generally not excluded or revoked. Generally, what
we've done is tried to get compliance. There are -
there are penalties, there are mechanisms of a
contractual nature which are used.
Those are the principal -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the ultimate?
What's the ultimate? You've tried everything else and
you whack them with a big penalty.
What is that?
MR. ROSENTHAL: In -- in cases involving
fraud, criminal penalties of a continuing nature, we can
suspend or revoke their right to come on to the
property. That's the ultimate. But -- but -- and this
deals with the Castle argument -
JUSTICE KAGAN: And -- and not just the
noncompliant trucks, but the entire operator who are
having some noncompliant trucks, is that correct?
MR. ROSENTHAL: Again, we -- this -- there
hasn't been this experience of -- of having to revoke
and -- and suspend in cases like what you're describing.
There are -- for example, there has been revocations
when an LMC has not had the insurance it's required, but
that applies to all of their trucks.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, if you're saying there
isn't that experience, I mean, could -- are you in a
position actually to represent that you would not
exclude anything except noncompliant trucks?
MR. ROSENTHAL: There -- there hasn't been
the experience. What we said before is that the
severest penalties are intended for severe continuing
offenses. And our position is that, given the fact that
there are reasonable applications of the revocation -
of the suspension requirement, given the fact that ATA
has launched a facial attack on our regulation, that it
will be sufficient time to deal with an as-applied
Castle.
If Castle survives and this Court -
JUSTICE BREYER: There are three reasons,
and the first one, I -- I'm not sure why it wouldn't
survive in a policy of deregulation if it seemed to
apply a fortiori, or equally, but I don't want to argue
that with you.
I want to be sure I have the second and
third.
MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes. Let me -- let me give
you -- let me give you my -- the three.
First, we don't believe Castle continues.
JUSTICE BREYER: But what is the second and
third?
MR. ROSENTHAL: Second -- second argument -
second argument is that even under the Castle regime,
all Castle talked about is going -- allowing a truck to
go up to a customer's property line, that -- that a
certificate of convenience and necessity never gave
anyone permission to go into Wal-Mart or anything else.
And that's what we're talking about here.
And thirdly, our position is that given this
is -- this being a facial attack, given the fact that we
believe that there are lawful applications of -- of the
revocation to ongoing continuing violations, which is,
frankly, the only -- I can't make a representation -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I've never heard of this
doctrine. This is a facial attack to a contract? Is
that it? I mean, you -
MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, but -- it's a -- it's
a facial attack to -- it is. It's a facial attack to a
contract. We don't believe that it applies to our
contract at all.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We have to attack this
contract provision by provision, or application by
application?
MR. ROSENTHAL: But -- but they're arguing
that our contract is tantamount to a law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. And I've
heard of facial attacks to criminal statutes.
MR. ROSENTHAL: Right. And -- but they are
attacking this remedy to -- they've -- they've -
talking -- they are attacking this on -- on its face and
saying that no application of this provision is -- is an
exception.
JUSTICE BREYER: And what's the one that
would be? Give me the example that you're thinking of
where, given Castle -
MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and its applications, it
would be -
MR. ROSENTHAL: Where -- where a truck is in
continuing violation, a company is in continuing
violation of a safety restriction.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, how
does -- how -- how would that differ from Castle?
Because what Castle was concerned about was a State that
has a perfectly lawful regulation, and it's violated,
then the State as the remedy excludes the truck from the
State.
MR. ROSENTHAL: Because -
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what it's concerned
about. And it didn't say anything about accepting very
serious violations, i.e., continuing ones. The reason
was the need for interstate regulation of an interstate
enterprise. And that was the reasoning. Leave it to
the ICC, a fortiori, where it's deregulatory policy, but
leave that to the side.
I want to know your best case in that one,
and I don't see the example yet.
MR. ROSENTHAL: Let me -- let me try to
respond, Justice Breyer.
I think if one reads the opinion in Castle,
Castle dealt with a past violation, not a continuing
violation. The record in that case didn't deal with
the -- and I think the words of the -- Justice Black
said that would be a different case, that there would be
a right to exclude a continuing violation.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I just go back,
because -
MR. ROSENTHAL: You certainly may.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the theoretical
questions. The agreement requires the operators to have
offsite parking.
MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right? It has to do
that for a reason. It means that if its trucks don't
use that offsite parking, that the operator is in
default? Is that the City's position?
MR. ROSENTHAL: If -- if it does, it submits
an off-street parking plan for all of the trucks which
are registered to go onto the property, and it has to
agree to keep those trucks in the off-site parking.
If it breaches that agreement, it's treated
as a breach, and we -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I just wanted to make
sure. What you're saying is if trucks park anywhere
else, then the operator's in violation of the agreement.
MR. ROSENTHAL: That -- that's correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. With respect
to the placard, as I read the provision it says you have
to have the placard coming in and going out. Is this
like one of those parking placards that people can affix
temporarily or does it have to be a permanent?
MR. ROSENTHAL: No, it does not have to be
permanently affixed to the truck.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, how does that help
you? Meaning to -
MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, there were -- we -- we
provide them if they want a sticker they can put on
their truck, but we don't require it. We just give them
the words. And most trucks, in fact virtually all
trucks of this type, have a -- have a frame on the
outside where they temporarily put plaques, for example,
at times when they are carrying hazardous materials.
You probably have seen that color design on the side.
Those are temporarily affixed.
So if a trucking company, an LMC, wished to
just put the plaque on as it's crossing the gate and
take it off when it's leaving the gate, it's -- it's
fully lawful to do that under our restrictions.
Most of them just leave -- leave it on, but
that's not required. The plaque is only required as it
enters, while it's on Port property, and when it leaves,
as it leaves.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how is the public
going to use that plaque?
MR. ROSENTHAL: What?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How is the public going
to use that? The public hangs around the Port as it's
loading to call in complaints?
MR. ROSENTHAL: There are -- there are -
there are members of the public include also the people
who are on -- at the MTO, also other truckers. The
purpose of it is essentially to provide a -- a remedy to
notify from people who are on the Port, and -- and also
to act essentially as a notice to the drivers in the
trucking company that if they are violating the rules,
there -- people know there's a phone number they can
call. So it acts -- it has a certain enforcement
effect.
My point -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you clarify -
would you clarify what the -- what happens when there is
an infraction? Say three trucks. Is it right that you
can suspend until the infraction is cured, that you can
suspend all of that operator's trucks?
MR. ROSENTHAL: We -- we are -- there has
been very little practice, Justice Ginsburg, under that,
but basically our enforcement where there have been
violations has been to ban the particular truck in
question, not the entire LMC.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you could do the
other. See, I'm -- what -- what are -- is it -- is it
just a matter of grace that you will say: Well, we'll
require them to fix those two trucks and all the others
can travel? Or could you say: Until you fix those two
trucks, none of your trucks come through?
MR. ROSENTHAL: We -- we have built in a
gradation. I mean, it's not purely a matter of grace.
We classify things as minor violations and major
violations.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's say it's a major
violation.
MR. ROSENTHAL: If it were a major violation
involving something we believe was systemic within the
LMC, the -- the -- not the regulation, but the
concession agreement would leave the possibility that we
could revoke or suspend until the problem was corrected.
But -- but -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And how about after it's
corrected? The Government then says there's some
uncertainty about that, whether you -
MR. ROSENTHAL: We have -- we have never
enforced it that way. I mean, the enforcement -- we
haven't used revocation; we haven't used suspension.
And generally speaking, our intent has been, as we
stated in the lower court and as we stated repeatedly,
to use this for continuing violations. But we are
really talking about future actions because revocation
and suspension have not been common.
Let me conclude by making two points here.
Number one, this Port undertook these actions as a
reasonable and genuine response to the needs to build
and grow a port. If we are prohibited from taking what
are substantively limited actions to control trucking,
then essentially we're going to be in a posture in which
this Port will be disabled by its surrounding community
from doing what it needs to do to compete.
Secondly, we submit you cannot be the
owner-proprietor of property without having some control
over the conditions under which owner -- under which
invitees, business invitees, come onto your property;
that this statute of Congress was not intended to
constrain that property interest.
JUSTICE BREYER: Make -- make this argument
precisely and substitute for "port authority" the words
"city of San Diego," okay? And -- and you'd be still
right. I mean, what's bothering me is, I -- I don't
know you've got the right one. So -- so if we decide in
your way, what we've done is distinguish precisely the
same situation, you from the city of Los Angeles, simply
because of the method they have of governmentally
regulating the port.
MR. ROSENTHAL: No. I disagree -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why?
MR. ROSENTHAL: -- Justice Breyer. It's not
because we're -- we have support as the proprietorship.
It's because these actions were commercial in nature.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. I see.
MR. ROSENTHAL: These -- the port is
operating as an enterprise not because it has the label
"enterprise," but because this is a business and as a
business we should be entitled under even-handedness to
do what a Wal-Mart or any other company could do to
enable us to prosper, grow, and nurture our business
enterprise.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Lerman, you have 4 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DANIEL N. LERMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. LERMAN: Justice Scalia, the criminal
penalties are not a red herring. Rowe makes clear that
you can't circumvent the Act by -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't say they were a
red herring.
MR. LERMAN: I know you didn't, Your Honor.
I was referring to Mr. Rosenthal's argument that -- in
response to a question. You did not say they were any
kind of herring and they're not.
Justice Breyer, in response to your
question: Rates, routes and services are not at issue
in this case. The only issue is whether they have force
and effect of law. That's the only issue before this
Court. The court below said they lack -- they fell
outside the scope of the statute because of the
proprietary nature.
Mr. Rosenthal talked a lot about the
commercial motivations, but the statute doesn't speak to
commercial motivations. The statute speaks to actions
with the force and effect of law. These have the force
and effect of law and are preempted on that ground.
Mr. Rosenthal said Castle has died. Castle
is still alive. The statutory scheme that formed the
basis of this Court's decision in Castle remain to this
day in Title 49 of the U.S. Code, and that was the basis
for the decision then, and it's the basis today.
Justice Ginsburg, the concession agreements
gives the Port unfettered discretion to determine
whether or not to suspend or revoke access. In this
Court's city of Chicago cases, the fact that the city
claimed at least some power to deny a license or access
to interstate commerce was sufficient and it's
sufficient in this case.
Thank you.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I thought there -
there was a representation made that they toe the line
that the government draws. That it, they can say: No
access as long as you have trucks in your fleet that
don't comply. But once you've gotten your fleet in
order and you are in compliance, then we can't punish
you for having wrongs in the past by saying you're -
you're suspended."
That -- that's the position that the
government is taking, and I take it you don't agree with
that.
MR. LERMAN: I don't agree and I think
counsel said right here that they reserve the authority
to suspend access for past or ongoing violations, and
that runs afoul of Castle under its plain terms.
If there are no further questions?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:16 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
40:5 40:24,24 29:18 31:22 53:1 19:12,13,16,21
54:23 affect 11:21 12:6 anybody 33:18 asked 12:10 23:18 24:13,21
affix 47:25 anymore 28:5 assert 16:12 basically 21:8
11:18 ago 41:15 appeal 30:17 Associations 1:4 53:18,19,20
14:2,4,16 agree 18:5,19 appealing 30:20 3:5 becoming 27:19
36:8 53:23 20:23 28:15 appeals 22:5 as-applied 43:22 behalf 1:17,22
54:7,17 47:15 54:13,15 APPEARANC... ATA 34:14 43:20 2:4,11,14 3:8
13:24 31:25 36:20 45:7,8,16 44:20,25 45:3,3 30:23 38:20
40:2 41:8 47:20 50:15 43:19 44:21 attacking 45:14 45:4 50:13
52:22 agreements 45:22 45:15 belong 36:24
27:17 agrees 41:25 28:7 31:11 32:2 attract 22:16 big 42:20
Ah 31:20,21 32:8 37:25 authorities 21:25binding 4:1
8:6,8 9:8 Airline 8:9 apply 4:6,7 12:1 11:18 14:10,12 blessed 27:11
37:25 airport 38:17 18:6 20:8 32:21 15:5,15,16 17:8body 22:12 24:4
19:8 airports 40:5,10 appointed 23:23 27:22 51:19 Boston 8:16,19
51:2,5,8 AL 1:8 appropriate 54:16 8:24,25 21:17
53:13 alive 53:17 37:23 avail 33:20 22:25 38:23,23
arguing 18:18,20 backed 6:11 9:15 breadth 10:9
40:2,23
38:21 argument 1:14 background Breyer 16:15
2:2,5,9,12 3:4,7 40:25 17:21 18:14
11:19 38:16 23:12,19,20 bargaining 23:15 26:13 27:1
27:7,22
35:11 carriers 4:2,8 24:7 38:23 36:18 37:22 38:1,10
36:3 9:21 29:14,23 central 34:5 claimed 53:25 38:11 39:9,13
44:10 carrier's 11:14 certain 20:21,22 claiming 11:17 52:6 53:12,13
46:2,9 11:18 12:3 22:23 29:22 11:17 commission
51:18 15:16 41:25 49:12 clarify 49:15,16 20:21 22:2
53:4 carrier-level certainly 29:2 classic 4:14 24:23 25:4 35:2
carrying 48:12 certificate 44:16 clause 3:12 7:21 common 51:3
28:20 carved 6:24 8:15 41:10 9:14 10:22 39:8 40:6
20:25 37:21 38:16,24 12:2,9,14,24 23:24 40:10
23:1 39:21 40:17 13:7 19:11,16 coerce 4:24 compete 51:11
24:11 46:16,22,24 22:14 27:24 coercive 9:19 complaints 24:15
38:22 53:6 54:2,21,22 29:18,25 30:5 33:19 25:1,7 49:3
52:10,11 cases 16:13 33:14,21 45:11 color 48:13 compliance
42:22 43:7 52:16 54:20 combination 42:14 54:9
choose 10:18 29:20 comply 54:8
35:1 14:11,13 15:1,3 39:4 36:23 41:24 concede 14:14
53:16,16,18 23:16,21,22,24 5:2 6:12 9:17 concerns 7:5
category 20:10 53:24,24 commercial 41:25 50:15
41:8 cement 21:21 civil 4:19 31:19 24:8 30:7 31:6 conclude 51:4
33:1 contract 10:14 38:9,22 39:2 2:3,13 3:7 dictating 8:23
30:8 30:7,10 31:1 50:25 53:8,8 day 16:3 42:4 53:16
42:2,6,8 32:14 36:11,14 court's 3:13 4:17 53:19 Diego 51:20
36:17,17,23 11:10 16:5 deal 16:7 24:14 differ 36:4 46:3
contracts 23:12 covered 7:5 46:22 37:20
34:3 42:8,16 created 8:12 dealt 15:2 46:21 23:8 26:10
contrary 8:18 crimes 33:16 decades 41:14 30:24 38:18
10:7 control 34:8,9,10 criminal 4:4,6,13 decide 32:19 41:5 46:24
31:14 34:13,14 51:8 4:14,23 6:11 51:22 differs 35:7,8
40:7 51:13 9:15 20:15,17 decides 34:23 36:6
51:16 controls 17:8 21:6,12 23:20 35:1 direct 27:14 28:5
controversy 40:8 27:16 31:19,23 4:17 8:4 11:11 directly 15:13
convenience 32:17,20,25 41:6 53:18,20 director 32:12,12
13:10,23 14:13 34:1,2 36:13,16 defines 9:13 discretion 53:22
copied 7:20,20 45:12 52:20 34:18 35:12,14 discusses 25:16
50:19 crucial 36:22 14:12 25:19 38:9,22
29:25 52:16 14:24 49:18 16:1,10 23:22 doctrine 39:5
couple 14:21 19:14 deputy 32:12 doing 10:1 13:21
24:24 25:23,24 26:5 currently 25:18 40:2 44:2 33:16 36:1
43:17 16:12 17:12 D design 48:13 30:8 42:1
45:25,25 18:1,2 19:17 D 3:1 details 41:9 dredging 32:18
20:1 22:5,5,25 damage 13:2 determine 53:22 drive 13:1 18:15
enormous 23:6 45:19 46:17 F first 5:9 17:5
enterprise 21:22 7:13,18,22 8:8 30:13 40:24 fix 14:9 50:3,4
24:8 8:12,12 10:4,12 face 20:17 24:25 fleet 54:7,8
45:15
24:9 enters 34:10 40:3 45:17 24:9 29:7 32:16 10:15,19,20
6:13 7:8 8:7 entire 43:3 49:24 7:6,9 8:15 43:18,20 44:20 21:14 30:22
10:13,16 entirely 33:23 19:24 25:23 48:9 53:24 31:10,14,17
17:25 entities 27:7 26:11 28:12 factor 21:19 37:24 39:18,24
21:4,14 entitled 52:11 30:17 31:4,6 factors 6:13 53:6,14,14
31:10,14 entity 14:17 39:8,9 factory 21:21 formed 53:17
33:9,10 entry 30:15 exclude 4:24 24:7 forms 13:10,24
37:24 enumerated 7:9 41:19,21,23 factual 19:2 14:13 15:23
49:13 enunciated 41:1 42:9,10 43:14 fails 29:3 forth 22:8 28:13
environmental 46:25 fall 3:16 7:9 28:19 30:7
27:19 25:8 26:18 27:7 excludes 46:6 falls 10:2,21 46:14
27:22 exclusive 15:5 12:22 35:11,14 foul 32:22
equivalent 21:21 existed 41:7,16 38:24 fourth 13:4
25:17 expansive 34:9 federally 11:14 11:11
32:13 even-handedn... explain 17:4 fence 34:16 fully 48:18
52:11 explicitly 8:18 Fifth 31:15 fundamentally
50:22 evidence 9:9 6:22 7:20 8:13 find 10:12 further 54:19
49:12,22 exact 12:22 9:6,12 10:21 fine 13:11 26:7
exactly 9:21 39:7 40:18 G
39:23 54:6,13 held 11:12 16:12 impose 9:15,20 9:13 20:12
37:5 42:4 4:15 40:4 26:14 30:11 interest 38:1
50:24 governmentally help 48:4 31:19 33:1 40:5 51:17
governs 24:4 52:21,24 53:3 4:23 intermittently
24:13 25:6 50:7 higher 21:11 imposition 28:4 3:25
49:15,21 grant 15:5 highway 11:25 impossible 5:10 interrupt 41:18
50:10,18 granted 11:14 17:8 20:20 22:1 incentive 25:16 interstate 4:3 5:2
54:4 15:16 24:23,24 25:4 27:10 9:16 11:15,20
24:18 37:14 38:4 10:10 13:10,24 13:14 15:6
45:19 grow 34:7 38:12 28:25 36:23,24 included 8:9 32:4 54:1
51:7 52:13 36:25 41:10 invitees 51:15,15
44:19,20 hiring 22:17 indicated 8:18 invoke 14:13
H history 8:2 indication 8:20 invoking 9:19
hallmarks 27:15 holding 29:3 indirect 33:9,10 42:22 50:13
17:4 hangs 49:2 Honor 5:23 8:9 indistinguisha... issue 3:23 17:25
41:3 happens 49:16 9:2 11:7 12:2 30:10,10 19:3,3 26:21
47:1 Harbor 8:16,19 15:2 17:24 individual 13:11 30:6 40:5 53:5
8:25 21:17 30:21 52:25 29:15 53:6,7
15:2 39:2,4,7 40:16 14:15 inferred 40:20 i.e 46:11
20:9 21:10 harm 32:22 host 8:14 40:21
28:17 Hayes 3:13 huge 25:2 inform 31:16 J
36:22 11:11 Hughes 27:12 infraction 28:18 jail 20:25 33:18
44:14 hazard 25:8 hypothetical 49:17,18 jobs 22:10
48:24 26:16 36:4 37:16,18 infractions 28:16 JOHN 1:19 2:6
51:9 hazardous 14:1,6 infrastructure 19:13
hazards 24:19 5:24 inspect 15:8 Justice 1:20 3:3
23:4,5 hearing 20:1 9:3,5 39:6 32:5 43:17 9:5 10:11,17,25
12:2 Kennedy 23:11 48:18 loading 49:3 12:18 24:6
23:18 36:10,15
key 5:1 9:16 15:10 logic 28:7 54:23
15:7,10 11:20,23 12:17
16:8,15 12:18 14:3,3 33:25,25 longstanding 27:25 31:2
18:5,10 kind 53:3 leave 46:13,15 40:4 mayor 23:23
19:11,16 kinds 17:16 48:19,19 50:15 look 6:8 13:3 mayoral 22:12
20:14 know 5:15 6:5 leaves 48:21,22 16:19 21:9 22:4mean 17:10
22:14 7:23 14:20 leaving 48:17 25:15 18:14 22:15
24:13 15:12,20 17:10
26:9,13 17:10,15 18:8lends 8:10 11:19 38:16 26:3,17 35:13
27:2,5,24 18:12 20:11 Lerman 1:17 2:3 51:24 42:6 43:12 45:1
29:6,18 27:1 31:1 32:22 2:13 3:6,7,9 lot 7:4 9:7 25:13 50:7,22 51:21
30:5,16 32:24,24 34:25 4:10 5:22 6:8 27:6 33:14 meaning 9:14
31:4 37:17 46:16 6:18,21 7:15,17 53:11 21:4 48:5
32:19 49:11 51:22 8:1,19 9:2 lots 24:15 means 47:9
52:25 10:15,19 11:3,6 lower 17:12 meant 31:14,16
35:11 11:9 12:2,13,19 50:25 mechanisms
36:3 L 13:6,9,18,23 L.A 22:10 24:10 42:15
label 52:9 15:1,9,12,20 members 23:22
labor 22:22 23:1 17:20,23 18:8 M 49:5
39:6,16 lack 25:5 53:8 18:11,20 52:17 major 50:8,10,12 method 51:25
42:5,18land 22:1 34:6,10 52:18,20,25 making 25:7 38:8 metrics 22:4,7
34:12,13 36:9 54:15 51:4 mind 5:10
45:6 36:24 lessor 32:15 manage 40:19,21 minor 50:8
landowner 34:19 let's 5:9 50:10 management minutes 52:17
landowners leverage 23:6 34:6 misdemeanor
30:14 leveraging 24:9 marine 20:18 32:8
49:1,15language 3:22 license 29:16 32:2,4 38:25 model 8:13
50:10 9:4,12 39:17 53:25 mark 22:11,11 modern 6:16
51:18 largest 11:19 licensed 4:7 market 3:17 5:7 modicum 34:8,9
Laughter 12:12 licensing 28:8 6:3 10:4,12 moment 31:25
53:4,21 launched 43:21 lift 6:20 21:18 23:9 money 38:4,8
law 3:20,21,23 limitation 39:18 24:11 27:12,14 money-maker
7:8 8:7 9:19 26:15 33:2 31:18 37:24 motivated 19:5
limited 40:3 51:8 39:4,25 motivation 18:4
16:8 21:5 23:1,1 30:22 54:5 21:23 motor 3:22 4:2,7
43:2,11 31:9,10,14,17 Lines 3:14 11:11 massive 21:25 9:20 11:14,18
32:18 45:10 53:7,14 49:21 materials 15:11 15:16 26:15
47:15 53:15 LMC 43:9 48:15 48:12 29:14,23 41:8
52:18 objectives 10:2 order 23:19,19 27:12,14 pertaining 7:2
24:3 32:14 ordinance 6:11 11:25 12:25 Petitioner 1:5,18
33:10 occur 40:15 ordinances 23:24 14:2 16:9 20:10 1:21 2:4,8,14
52:6 offenses 43:18 outset 29:13 36:8 37:21 3:8 19:15 20:18
offsite 47:6,10 outside 35:12 40:12 49:23 52:19
Oh 17:13 32:22 overnight 6:6 parties 30:11 pinches 42:7
46:12 17:4 20:21 26:7 34:12,13 35:4 28:11 5:17,20 6:5,10
51:6,11 36:23 37:10,11 ownership 22:3 patchwork 9:24 placards 47:25
18:15 51:20 51:13 4:13,14,16,19 28:9
25:3,8 once 54:8 4:19,23 6:11 plain 3:11 9:12
50:21 ongoing 29:14 P 3:1 21:6,12 23:20 Plainly 35:6
12:4 41:12 42:3 park 5:13 12:25 36:13,16,20 plaques 48:11
52:9 parking 6:6 17:5 52:21 19:17 30:5
operations 12:22 47:6,10,13,15 32:8,20,25 33:3 26:10 30:25
39:11 opinion 25:19 participant 3:17 permanent 48:1 25:12
40:6 24:14 probative 33:17 public 22:2 24:4 rates 3:21 18:25
9:19 precisely 7:18 14:3 16:25 17:3 33:22 35:2 37:5 53:5
11:16 16:14 17:4 24:14 38:15,18 39:23 rationale 21:17
13:22 14:1 51:19,23 25:20 26:7 48:23 49:1,2,5 read 17:12 47:23
18:3 precluded 16:12 35:21 50:16 punish 13:12 reads 46:20
21:7,20 predicated 15:4 problems 17:17 54:9 really 23:15 24:8
22:6 41:6 program 27:10 punishment 32:23 51:2
preempted 7:10 programs 25:16 13:10,24 14:14 reason 12:8,14
24:3,3 13:5,9 14:12 prohibit 34:19 14:15 15:23 15:22 33:23
25:6 19:9 35:6 53:15 prohibited 34:19 28:18 40:2 46:11 47:9
preemption 3:12 51:7 purchasing 27:19 reasonable 3:25
27:17,21 7:21 8:22,23 prohibiting 13:20 purely 36:17,18 28:20 43:19
32:12 9:1,3,3,5,6,12 prohibition 33:13 50:7 51:6
10:8,9,22 18:2 project 24:24 purpose 25:22 reasonably
41:20,23 19:4 27:23 28:5 property 5:19 26:2 49:7 37:25
42:3 29:21 30:20 19:1 22:3 30:12 purposes 5:25 reasoning 46:13
49:2,8 31:5 39:6,7,11 35:4 40:19,22 32:5 reasons 10:6
preempts 8:6 41:24 42:25 pursues 40:19 43:25
53:22 19:8 44:15 47:14 put 5:11,13,19 rebuttal 2:12
27:6 36:7 7:14,22 8:8,15 puts 4:25 reconciliation
present 14:7,8,8 9:8 17:17 19:5 p.m 54:22 28:13,21
10:1 20:16 preserve 13:3 40:19 41:2 Q 20:1,5 32:11,17
40:9 53:10 qualify 13:15 46:22
43:13,18 presumption 52:5 11:2,10 12:10 52:24
47:11 8:17 41:1 prosecute 33:18 17:22 18:18,21 reductions 27:13
pretty 21:2 Prospect 34:17 18:22,24 20:15 Reeves 21:21
23:6,7 principal 42:17 provides 3:18 47:5 54:19 regime 41:7,10
38:17 principle 40:25 provision 3:20 quite 7:17 10:7 41:14,16 44:13
53:25 private 10:13 8:22 18:6 29:4 12:13,19 26:5 region 22:9
22:17 51:2 47:3,7,12,21 says 19:20 26:6
13:13 50:3 revoke 11:18 49:20 50:6,12 31:9 34:14 35:3
23:3,7 required 43:9 15:15 42:24 50:21 52:2,4,8 40:18 47:23
34:22 48:20,20 43:6 50:16 53:11,16 50:19
36:1,11 requirement 53:23 Rosenthal's 53:1 Scalia 7:12,16
43:21 46:5 3:23 5:17,18 revoked 29:16 route 17:8,14 8:25 9:5 10:25
50:14 6:10 39:20,20 42:13 18:10,11 26:14 11:4,8 12:16
28:11 requirements right 7:14,17 9:1 routes 3:21 18:10 26:23
3:16 4:4,21 5:3 11:14 12:4,13 18:25 26:2 27:2 30:16,19
22:12 32:13 42:24 45:11,13 53:5 33:4,7 36:21
29:20 requires 47:5 46:2,25 47:8,22 routinely 30:11 37:3,10,17,20
reserve 18:22 49:17 51:21,22 Rowe 52:21 38:3,6 39:6,16
reserved 14:10 rights 15:17 40:9 rules 10:25 41:11 45:6 52:20,23
respect 19:1 roads 12:8 20:22 39:9 16:4 21:2 28:8
34:3 40:11 47:22 ROBERTS 3:3 54:18 scope 8:23 9:13
40:1 46:19 13:7 19:11 S second 11:2,10
Respondent's 52:16 54:20 safe 14:7,24 41:18 44:5,10
response 51:6 Roe 4:17 15:8,24 16:6 Secondly 51:12
45:14 46:6 restrict 37:7,8 Rosenthal 1:22 26:11 28:12,16 see 12:14 17:15
restricting 6:12 2:10 30:1,2,4 28:24 29:11 17:16,18 18:6
restrictions 6:23 35:8,16,18,24 saying 13:18 26:8
44:23 result 9:23 39:15 41:17,22 29:15 33:11 seen 27:13 48:13
retains 25:13 42:11,22 43:5 34:20 35:11 sense 23:2
revocation 43:19 45:2,9,13,21 45:16 47:19 series 6:24
18:25 8:16 10:11,17 State's 4:21 13:3 suggested 16:8 tantamount
35:5,9 19:18 28:22 15:24 40:21 19:20 45:10
36:1 29:6 47:1,4,8 statute 3:16 7:10 suits 24:17,25 targets 5:24
47:18,22 48:4 7:13,18 8:3,5,6 support 52:5 tariff 4:7,25
speaks 53:13 45:12 surrounding 40:6 term 8:23 31:14
48:13 specially 37:12 15:3,4 16:4 survive 44:2 6:4,15 20:18
specifically 5:24 STEVEN 1:22 42:24 43:7 terms 7:10 8:5
spoke 8:19 12:3 sticker 17:2 48:7 53:23 54:17 terribly 34:12
25:1 standards 4:1 street 11:25 11:14 12:7,20 10:5
Starbucks 23:10 16:20 34:17 13:14 14:4,16 thank 11:3,6
4:14,15 6:3 strict 34:18 suspensions 12:3 52:15,16 54:3
51:24 17:8 20:20 39:24 40:25 T they'd 19:22
28:1 34:22 35:1,2,4 submitted 54:21 tailor-made 17:7 39:15
36:22,24 37:1 54:23 17:9,16,19 things 9:7 26:11
truck 13:11,25 34:13 48:10 vanilla 24:8 33:25 34:17
14:1,2,5,9,19 vehicle 26:16 50:22 51:23
25:13 14:19 16:9 U veto 16:12,14 ways 16:7
27:21 18:15 24:20 ultimate 42:18 view 11:23 30:12 weight 6:23 7:1
27:20 28:16 42:19,25 violate 29:11 26:7,15,17
29:3,19 37:11,14 38:4 uncertainty 42:6,8 weights 20:5,9
34:2 40:11 42:9 50:20 violated 46:5 welcome 19:12
36:5,5,22 44:14 45:24 underscore 34:7 violates 42:9 we'll 50:2
38:24 46:6 48:3,8 understand 6:1 violating 49:10 we're 13:19,21
54:15 49:23 36:12 41:19 violation 13:13 14:22 18:18
trucking 1:3 3:4 38:10 violations 13:20 31:17 34:5,24
26:3 48:15 49:10 undertook 51:5 49:23 50:8,9 38:5,25 44:18
54:4 51:8 unfettered 53:22 51:1 54:17 51:9 52:5
38:16 13:1,19,21 14:6 26:6 23:2 33:17 42:14
43:25 44:8 14:7,21,24 15:8 United 1:1,14,20 virtually 21:24 51:23
16:20 18:16 2:7 11:20 19:14 48:9 whack 42:20
20:21 25:2,18 unload 6:17 vitality 3:13 22:9 39:21
19:10 34:16 37:11 13:25 14:9,22 W words 19:7 21:7
43:22 41:12,20,20,24 unstated 8:11 wait 25:21 26:18 39:17
43:14 47:9,13 use 13:5,8 20:21 23:9 44:17 51:19
50:3,5,5 54:7 47:10 48:24 16:21 17:1,16 works 38:15
19:1 20:14 wrote 8:6
1:17,20,22 X
1:5 3:4
1:15 3:2
54:22
15:15 16:4
28:10
5:24
1:11
2:8
41:8
40:7
40:12,15,24
1:11
2:4
2:11
25:17
52:17
17:1
15:14 16:3
17:1
2:14
25:15
25:15
