IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
FLORIDA, :
Petitioner : No. 11-817
v. :
CLAYTON HARRIS :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, October 31, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Petitioner.
GLEN P. GIFFORD, ESQ., Assistant Public Defender,
Tallahassee, Florida; on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae, 18
supporting the Petitioner
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GLEN P. GIFFORD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Garre, welcome
back.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Your Honor, and may
it please the Court:
The question in this case is when does a
trained drug detection dog's alert to a vehicle
establish probable cause to search the vehicle?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are you for or against the
dog this time?
MR. GARRE: For it again, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: For it.
MR. GARRE: The Florida Supreme Court
answered that question by erecting what we think is an
extraordinary set of evidentiary requirements, in
effect, puts the dog on trial in any suppression hearing
in which defendant chooses to challenge the reliability
of the dog.
I think, most fundamentally, the problem
with the court of appeals' -- the Supreme Court's
decision -- is that it misconceives what this Court's
cases conceive of the probable cause requirement,
converting probable cause, which this Court has referred
to as a substantial chance, or fair probability, of the
detection of contraband or evidence of a crime, into
what amounts to a continuously updated batting average
and a requirement that dogs be virtually infallible.
That -- that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That -- that goes to the
field performance; but, the other requirements, that
the -- some showing that the test -- that the training
program is reputable, some showing that the handler, not
only the dog, has -- has had training, it seems to me
those two -- not -- there's nothing improper about that.
MR. GARRE: Well, and I think, Your Honor,
under our view of it, it's okay to inquire into whether
or not the dog has successfully completed a bona fide
training program, which -- which we think is a training
program in which the dog is going to be tested for
proficiency, including in a setting where some vehicles
have drugs and some vehicles don't.
And Aldo, the dog in this case, clearly was.
He'd received a 120-hour training program with the
police department in Apopka, Florida. He received a
40-hour refresher seminar by another police department
in Dothan, Alabama. And he was subjected to continuous
weekly training, in which part of that training
consisted of taking him out, walking him by some
vehicles that contained cars, some vehicles that didn't.
And the testimony of Officer Wheetley was
that Aldo's performance was really good. And what he
meant by that was that if there were eight cars with
drugs.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why didn't -- then why
didn't they get the dog recertified? By the time of the
search, the certification had expired 16 months.
MR. GARRE: It was a lapse, Your Honor. The
dog subsequently was recertified.
Our position is that the Fourth Amendment
doesn't impose an annual certification requirement.
Some states have it, some states don't.
I think, more important in this case was the
fact that the dog was continuously trained, continuously
evaluated in training.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what do you -- what
do you have to show to establish that the dog was well
trained.
MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor, I think the
most important thing is successful completion of
proficiency testing.
I mean, what -- what our friends would like,
and what the Florida Supreme Court would like, would
really for the courts to delve into all aspects of the
training, what types of distracters were used, what type
of smell and printing was used and the like.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, if it were just
that -- you have the show that the program was
reputable.
MR. GARRE: Well, certainly that it was
authentic, Your Honor. And here, the programs were --
were conducted by actual police departments in -- in
Alabama and Florida. And this Court ordinarily would
presume regularity in those sorts of training settings.
And there's no reason to approach the
training of a dog any differently, but --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought all of these
training facilities were private entities that
contracted with police departments.
MR. GARRE: No, Your Honor. The
certification. Certification usually is done by private
entities which are operated by former law enforcement
officers. But the training itself, it usually and here
was done by police departments themselves.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I go back to
Justice Ginsburg's question? There's no -- what I
hear -- read the Florida court saying is there's no
national standard for certification. That's correct?
MR. GARRE: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There's no national
standard that defines what's adequate training, correct.
MR. GARRE: That's right. There --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So -- let me just finish
my question. So assuming there's no national standards,
then how do you expect a judge, without asking questions
about the content of the certification process, the
content of the training process, and what the results
were and how they were measured, how do you expect a
judge to decide whether the certification and the
training are sufficiently adequate.
MR. GARRE: And I think that the central
inquiry that we would think the judge would undertake is
to determine whether or not the dog was performing
successfully in proficiency testing.
I mean -- after all, that's why we train the
dogs. And if --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you still have to
ask what that training was, and the judge still has to
determine whether the judge believes it was adequate,
correct? That's what the totality of circumstances
requires.
MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor, in our view,
we don't think it's -- it's an appropriate role for the
Court to delve into the contours of the training, what
specific methods were used to train or distract or --
you know, all the contours that they bring up in their
brief.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what does a judge do,
just say, the police department says this is adequate,
so I have to accept it's adequate?
MR. GARRE: Not -- you would have to accept
it, Your Honor, on its face. I think you -- in a record
like this -- and I think this record is clearly
sufficient -- and, ultimately, that's what we're asking
this Court to hold -- what you have in the record
is evidence --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, I -- I have
no problem that this record -- with this record. My
problem is how do we rule.
Because it seems the me that I'm not quite
understanding what -- how -- the legal rule you're
asking us to announce. I think the legal rule, you're
saying, if the dog has been tested for proficiency by a
police department's determination of what's adequate for
proficiency, that establishes probable cause. That's
what I think the rule you want us to -- to do.
I don't know what the role of the judge is
in that --
MR. GARRE: I think it would be close --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- with that rule.
MR. GARRE: -- close to that. We would ask
whether or not the dog successfully treated -- completed
training by a bona fide organization. And here --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No certification, no
questioning of the handler and the handler's training?
The judge can't do any of that and shouldn't do any of
that.
MR. GARRE: Certification is not required.
It may be one way that the police department could
establish reliability a different way, but certification
itself is not required when you have a record of the
type of training that you have here.
We do think that you could put the handler
on the stand and ask about the reliability, certain
questions about reliability.
We don't think, in a record like this, the
judge would say, well, it says that he completed 120
hours in narcotics detection at the Apopka, Florida
police department, and 40 hours at the Dothan police
department, so --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So it's not enough for
you to win by us saying that a court can't insist on
performance in the field records, that it has to look at
the totality of the circumstances.
What other case have -- have we announced,
under a totality of the circumstance test, an absolute
flat rule like the one you're proposing? Where else
have we said that one thing alone establishes probable
cause --
MR. GARRE: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that one factor
alone.
MR. GARRE: -- I think one area where the
Court mentioned that was in the Lago Vista case, where
it talked about the importance of clear rules for police
officers and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose that if the
reasonableness of a search depended upon some evidence
given by a medical doctor, the Court would not go back
and examine how well that doctor was trained at Harvard
Medical School and, you know, what classes he took and
so forth, right.
MR. GARRE: Absolutely. And the same way
that when an officer provides evidence for a search
warrant, we don't demand the training of the officer,
what schools he went to or what specific courses he had
in probable cause.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre, you said there
was the certification, training program, but you gave a
third. You said, or otherwise show proficiency in
locating narcotics.
So if there is no certification, no
training, how would the state establish that the dog was
reliable in detecting drugs?
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I think that that
would be the unusual case, and it probably would be
captured by the other factors; but, what we meant by
including that is that there's no limit on the types of
evidence that the police could submit to show
reliability.
If you didn't have certification or a formal
training program, the fact that there was evidence that
a dog like Aldo successfully performed in weekly
training over the course of the year, and the police
submitted the records, like the records in the Joint
Appendix in this case at pages 106 and 116, that might
be another way of establishing reliability.
But the -- the central way would be showing
that the dog successfully completed training or that the
dog was certified.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And I think you'll agree
that the handler, too, the handler would have to --
MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor, we don't think
there is a Fourth Amendment requirement of certification
for handlers. Again, this is something that varies
among states.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not -- not certification,
but that the handler has been -- has been trained --
MR. GARRE: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- to work with drug
detection dogs.
MR. GARRE: That's correct. And Officer
Wheetley here, of course, had been trained. He had
gotten a 160-hour course in narcotics detection, and had
done training with Aldo in the Dothan, Alabama police
department, 40 hours there.
And these dog -- the dog, Aldo, and Officer
Wheetley had worked together for about a year before the
time of the search.
The handlers themselves are going to be in
the best position to know the dogs and evaluate their
reliability. And they have a strong incentive to ensure
the dogs are reliable. That's both because they don't
want to miss contraband when it's available -- when it
exists in the field; and, also, they don't want to be
put into harm's way.
The traffic stop, in particular, is one of
the most dangerous encounters police officers face.
They're not going to want to be working with a dog that
is consistently putting the officer in a position of
searching cars based on an alert when that dog is not
reliable in predicting the presence --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm somewhat
troubled by all of the studies that have been presented
to the Court, particularly the Australian one where,
under a controlled setting, one dog alerted correctly
only 12 percent of the time.
How and when and who determines when a dog's
reliability in alerting has reached a critical failure
number? And what is -- what do you suggest that number
is, and how does a judge determine that that's being
monitored?
MR. GARRE: We don't think the
Fourth Amendment puts a number on it. This Court has
rejected a numerical conception of probable cause.
But with respect --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I'm deeply
troubled by a dog that alerts only 12 percent of the
time. Whatever -- whether we have a fixed number or an
unfixed number, that seems like less than probability
for me.
MR. GARRE: But, but let me -- let me
address the, the South Wales study, Your Honor, which I
think is the one that you were referring to and that's
the primary one relied on by the other side. In that
case they reported that over the course of several years
the dogs' alerts resulted in discovery of drugs only 26
percent of the time.
But there is another part of that study
which doesn't come up in the amicus briefs, and that's
that in 60 percent of the other cases the individuals
admitted to using drugs or being in the proximity of
drugs. And if you include that in the universe of
accurate alerts, as you should, then the number becomes
70 percent of dogs accurately alerting. That 70 percent
based on the primary study that they rely upon --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That doesn't answer what
happens to the dogs who have -- dogs grow old. They are
taken out of service for a reason. So how -- how is a
court supposed to monitor whether or not a dog has
fallen out of --
MR. GARRE: Well, primarily by looking at
whether the dog has successfully completed training.
And you're right, dogs do go out of service when they
reach a certain age. Dogs, like humans, become old and
impaired over time. But -- but looking at weekly
training records, like are available in this case, dogs
that successfully perform week in and week out in
training are going to successfully perform in the -- in
the real world.
And, after all, I think the most problematic
aspect of the challenges to the reliability of these
dogs is that law enforcement agencies across the country
at the state and Federal level, law enforcement agencies
around the world, and law enforcement agencies that
protect this Court rely on detection dogs as reliable
predictors of the evidence of contraband, evidence
of the presence of explosives or likewise.
And this is an area where we think that a
page of logic and experience is worth a volume -- a page
of experience and history is worth a volume of logic.
These dogs have been used and are being used in many
settings across the country and across the world today.
And the reason they are being used is because the people
who work with them know that they are reliable and --
and know by experience that they are reliable.
And that's one of the central problems we
have with the argument on the other side, is that
ultimately this Court should distrust the reliability of
the dogs. And again --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Garre, could I
understand your argument? Because -- suppose in a case
the government comes in, says this dog has been through
training and the handler has been through training. And
this is a case in which -- this is never going to come
up when the dog actually alerts to narcotics; it's not
worth anybody's time at that point.
It's only going to come up in a case like
this, where a dog alerts to narcotics, there is no --
there are no narcotics, but something else is found, and
so the person ends up being criminally prosecuted. So
it's, you know, a small universe of cases.
So the government comes in and says that the
dog has been trained. Can -- can the criminal defendant
at that point call the handler, say, how has the dog
been trained, what are the methods that -- that the dog
has -- was used, and how did the dog do in training?
Can the -- can the defendant do that.
MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I think that the
defendant can call the handler and can ask those sorts
of questions. I think the court would cut it off if you
got into questions like, well, did they use the
play-reward or the scent-imprinting method in training.
Well, what specifics -- because I think that delves too
far into the details.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you can ask questions
like how did the dog do in training.
MR. GARRE: Yes, and that was done here.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And how about if you really,
if there were some articles that said, you know, that
there was a certain kind of method that, for example,
led to a lot of subconscious cueing by the handler.
Could the -- could the criminal defendant say, did you
use that method that leads to these problematic results?
MR. GARRE: I -- I don't think so, Your
Honor. First of all, cueing is not part of this case
because they haven't argued that the dog was cued. The
argument is the dog was just sort of inherently
reliable.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm using "cueing" not in
terms of any intentionality, but one thing that I
learned in reading all of this was that one difficulty
here is that dogs respond to subconscious cues and that
there are different ways of training that make that less
or more of a problem.
MR. GARRE: And our position is, is that you
can inquire into cueing during this hearing, that the
defendants can -- can argue that the dog was cued, and
in -- in the course of that argument you might be able
to get into those sorts of things. That's different
than the challenge that was made here. There wasn't a
cueing challenge made in this case.
I would like to just go back to one of the
premises of your question, which is that the dog in this
case didn't accurately alert. The dog in this case
accurately alerted to the odor of illegal narcotics.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, I didn't mean to say
that. I just meant to say that there were -- there were
no drugs found.
MR. GARRE: Right. And, and I think that's
another central problem with the Florida supreme court's
decision, is this notion that alerts to so-called
residual odors aren't indicative of the dog's
reliability. A dog's alert to the lingering odor of
methamphetamine which was in the car, must have been in
the car in this case, is just as accurate as a dog's
alert to the presence of methamphetamine itself in the
car.
If I could reserve the remainder of my time
for rebuttal?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. GARRE: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Palmore.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH R. PALMORE,
FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. PALMORE: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
This Court has long recognized the ability
of trained dogs to reliably detect target odors and such
dogs every day perform critical life and death homeland
security and law --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I have two
separate questions for you. Tying the earlier case a
little bit to this one, I am assuming that your position
is -- and you'll tell me what the legal standard is --
that a well-trained dog, if he alerts, or walks by a row
of apartments, a row of houses, and alerts to drugs,
that that simple alert is probable cause for the police
to get a search warrant.
MR. PALMORE: Yes, we believe that an alert
by a trained dog is sufficient to establish probable
cause.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that, without any
other information about -- unlike the earlier case or
this one, where the police officer saw the individual
being nervous, et cetera, et cetera -- that all -- all
it takes is a dog alert, despite the fact that there is
no study that says the dogs reliably alert 100 percent
of the time?
MR. PALMORE: 100 percent of the time is of
course not required for probable cause.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, I -- I understand.
MR. PALMORE: It's a fair probability
standard and certainty is not required, and I think that
was the principal and fundamental flaw of the Florida
Supreme Court. It demanded infallibility where
infallibility is not required.
In terms of studies, it is actually well
studied --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So -- so shouldn't we be
addressing the question whether a -- an alert,
especially outside a home in particular, should be,
standing by itself, enough?
MR. PALMORE: I think what the Court -- of
course reliability is important. The question is how
you determine reliability. This is a somewhat unique
setting where the law enforcement tool is actually
tested initially and on an ongoing basis in a controlled
setting to establish its reliability. Your Honor asked
what the standard for bona fide training is.
We think the -- the important point is the
outcome of the training: Is the dog proficient? Can
the dog reliably detect narcotics odor and only
narcotics odor in a controlled setting where false
positives and false negatives can accurately be
measured? That record is established here.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, only because the
officer said that he satisfactorily performed --
MR. PALMORE: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and what the Florida
court said: But we don't know what that means.
MR. PALMORE: Well, we -- I think we do know
what it means, Your Honor. There are two different
showings that are made here. There is a formal training
and formal certification, both for the dog and the
handler separately, and then a separate training, formal
training together.
But then, just as important, you have
ongoing, but less formal, proficiency exercises
conducted by the handler in which the dog, in a
controlled setting where errors could reliably be
identified, performed quite strongly, including 2 days
before the arrest here. So that's JA 113 on June 22nd,
the dog performed perfectly in a controlled setting.
And we have -- there are records in this
case going back several months before the arrest and
several months after the arrest showing that -- that
this dog passed the test, this dog was reliable.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you agree that
that's an appropriate area of inquiry?
MR. PALMORE: We think it is.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The judge,
presented with, here's Aldo, he was -- went to this
school, he was certified, the judge can say, when was he
last tested, right? When did he last go through some --
MR. PALMORE: Yes, I think the judge can ask
those kinds of questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The -- the only
thing really you say they can't ask about is what's --
what's his record.
MR. PALMORE: Well, there is a question --
there are a couple sub-issues here. The principal vice
of the Florida Supreme Court was in imposing an
unprecedented and inflexible set of evidentiary
obligations that are part of the government's
affirmative case that the government has to always
introduce any time it seeks to establish probable cause
based on a dog alert. We think that's fundamentally
misplaced for a -- for a variety of reasons.
The question of what the government -- what
are fair game questions for a defendant to ask once the
handler is on the stand is a -- is a different question.
And --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And judges do this
thousands of times in thousands of cases. They ask:
Was the tip reliable? There are any number of
permutations. It's a question of whether or not the
trial judge was -- made a correct determination in
determining that there was or was not sufficient cause
for the police to proceed. It just happens every day.
MR. PALMORE: I think that's right, Your
Honor, but I think the -- the critical aspect of
reliability in this context is the dog's performance in
a controlled setting.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Palmore, you
criticize the Florida Supreme Court for requiring
evidence of field performance; and, assuming that that
evidence is not required, if the defendant, in preparing
for the suppression motion, wants what information there
is, would it be proper to seek -- for the defendant --
would it be permissible for the defendant to speak -- to
seek through discovery whatever field performance
records there are?
MR. PALMORE: We don't think so, certainly
not as a routine basis. The kind of burden that that
might impose on law enforcement we don't think is
justified.
That's a separate question from whether the
defendant can ask the handler, if the handler is on the
stand, about field performance, and then the court can
give that answer whatever weight is appropriate.
We think, typically, an answer on field
performance is not going to be material. It's not going
to be helpful. Because the problem is in the field,
when a dog alerts, the dog is trained to alert to the
odor of drugs.
Your -- it's like a -- what the -- Florida
Supreme Court wanted a batting average, a batting
average that would be calculated when we know the number
of at bats, but we don't know in many cases whether
there was a hit or an out. So we had a fraction where
we know the denominator but not the numerator.
The answer to the Florida supreme court's
question and concern about reliability, again, is to go
back to the controlled setting, where we know what's a
hit and what's an out, and we can calculate a reliable
batting average. That needs to be where the focus
should be in determining the reliability of a dog.
And there should -- there's no reason to
constitutionalize the process or the training
methodologies that get you to that point. What matters
is, is this dog successful in a setting in which we can
measure success.
And I think that it's also important to
point out that the Florida court was basically alone in
establishing these unprecedented and inflexible sets of
evidentiary requirements.
There is a large body of case law in the
lower courts on the reliability of drug detection dogs
going back 30 or 40 years, and there are no other
courts, no other appellate courts to be sure, that have
imposed these kinds of requirements on law enforcement
when it seeks to establish probable cause for a
detection -- for after a detection dog alerts.
JUSTICE KAGAN: If you take out the Florida
Supreme Court and this one trial court in Massachusetts,
basically you think what courts have been doing is the
right thing?
MR. PALMORE: In general. There is some
diversity across the courts, but I think that if you
look at Judge Gorsuch's opinion in the Ludwig case from
the Tenth Circuit, or the Jones case from the Virginia
supreme court, you see approaches that are basically
sound, where courts have confidence that if law
enforcement comes in and says, this dog is trained and
has demonstrated proficiency in a training setting, that
that dog is generally reliable.
And I think, as Mr. Garre --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But where at the same time
they'll allow a defendant to question the handler about
that training, about how the dog has performed in that
training; is that right?
MR. PALMORE: Yes. Those questions can be
asked.
But I think it's critical, as Mr. Garre
pointed out, that the courts not constitutionalize dog
training methodologies or hold mini trials with expert
witnesses on what makes for a successful dog training
program. Because, as Mr. Garre said, the government has
critical interests, life and death interests, that it
stakes on the reliability of these dogs.
So the U.S. Marshals use dogs to protect
Federal judges. The Federal Protective Services use
dogs to keep bombs out of Federal buildings. The TSA
uses dogs to keep bombs off of airplanes. FEMA uses
dogs to find survivors after hurricanes.
There are 32 K-9 teams in the field right
now in New York and New Jersey looking for survivors of
Hurricane Sandy.
So, in situation after situation, the
government has in a sense put its money where its mouth
is, and it believes at an institutional level that these
dogs are quite reliable. And I think the courts --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you -- I'm not
sure it's relevant, but do dogs -- are their -- does
their ability -- is it even across the board? In other
words, if you have a dog that's trained and good at
sniffing out heroin, the same dog is going to be good at
detecting a bomb, or is there some difference?
MR. PALMORE: No, there -- well, I think any
dog could be trained in either discipline. And if you
look at the Scientific Working Group on Detection Dogs
report that we cite in our brief, the report explains
that the same general methodologies and the same
different -- same general approach is used to train each
kinds of dogs. But, typically, a drug detection dog
will not be cross-trained on explosives.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you don't know
whether -- in other words, are dogs good at sniffing
things, or are they -- can they be good at bombs, but
not good at meth?
MR. PALMORE: Well, I don't know the
specific answer to that. I think once a dog kind of
chooses a major, that's what they stick with. But I
think the important point is that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't want coon dogs
chasing squirrels.
MR. PALMORE: Right. But I think the
important point is that these dogs have to meet -- have
to pass proficiency in an initial training program, and
then they, as is shown in the record here in great
detail, they show proficiency on an ongoing basis,
including in this case two days before the arrest.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Gifford.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GLEN P. GIFFORD
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. GIFFORD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
There is no canine exception to the totality
of the circumstances test for probable cause to conduct
a warrantless search. If that is true, as it must be,
any fact that bears on a dog's reliability as a detector
of the presence of drugs comes within the purview of the
courts. This can encompass evidence of initial
training, certification, maintenance training and
performance in the field.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you understand the
government to disagree with that general position? In
other words, the trial court, if you have an attorney
that's really concerned about the training of this dog,
they can ask about it.
MR. GIFFORD: I do understand the government
to disagree about the relevance of field performance.
And where I specifically think the government disagrees
is on the level of detail that can be inquired into by
the trial court on any of these elements.
JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't think they
disagreed about what he may do; I thought they disagreed
about what he must do. That is, the Florida Supreme
Court said you must, da, da, da, da, da, and gave a
whole list. I thought that's what the case was about.
MR. GIFFORD: Well, the Florida Supreme
Court did have several passages in its opinion where it
talked about what the state must produce. And at first
glance, that looks rather didactic.
However, what I think the Florida Supreme
Court was saying there was that if this -- these records
exist, the state must produce them. And that is
consistent with the state's burden of proof to justify a
warrantless search.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's a totally different
matter. Of course, I agree with you that a trial judge
has control of the trial. He's likely to know what's
relevant. In different circumstances, different matters
will be, and he has first say on what you're going to go
into. It's the must.
And now you're on the point. Why is that
the right list? I mean, what in the Constitution
requires that list?
MR. GIFFORD: I don't believe the
Constitution requires it, and I don't believe --
JUSTICE BREYER: Didn't the Supreme Court
believe the Constitution required it?
MR. GIFFORD: No, I don't think so, even
though they used the word "must." I think that the
"must" concerns performance records and training records
that exist.
Farther down in the opinion, the court says
reasons why the -- why the state should keep and present
performance records --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But what --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So -- so if the state
doesn't keep -- if the state doesn't keep any
performance records, then there would be no field
performance to show, but that doesn't mean the state
loses; is that what you're saying?
The state doesn't keep performance records.
The Florida Supreme Court seemed to say field
performance records are required.
MR. GIFFORD: If the state does not keep
field performance records, that is a fact, that is a
lack of evidence that could be held against the state in
the suppression hearing. And it shifts the focus onto
providing evidence of the initial training, the
certification, and the maintenance training that can
show to the trial court that this is a reliable dog.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now I thought the
court said -- held against the state. I thought what
the Florida court was saying is that if you didn't
produce it, the dog's evidence would -- would not be
allowed -- it's --
MR. GIFFORD: They did use --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the search is invalid.
MR. GIFFORD: The court did use the word
must --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. GIFFORD: -- but it's not -- it's not a
specific recipe that can't be deviated from. Because,
in addition to listing the records that must be
produced, the Florida Supreme Court also said, and all
other evidence that bears on the reliability of the dog.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even worse.
MR. GIFFORD: So it's not a specific recipe,
and it's talking about what -- if these records exist,
they must be produced.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you conceding that
the Florida Supreme Court, at least with respect to the
field performance records, was wrong, that they -- it is
not a Fourth Amendment requirement?
MR. GIFFORD: I don't think they -- I don't
think they require field performance records to
establish --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they said it was part
-- but they outline what the government must prove, and
that was one of them.
MR. GIFFORD: They said what the government
must produce if those records exist. But when you go
down to the part of the opinion where the court applies
the law to the facts, the court didn't just say, because
there were no field performance records, no probable
cause, we close up shop, conviction reversed.
What the court did was take into
consideration the lack of field performance records, the
lack of any records about initial training and
certification aside from the fact that this dog had a
certificate.
And we have to remember that this
certificate, not only was it 16 months out of date, it
wasn't a certificate for Aldo. It was a certificate for
Aldo and a Seminole County deputy together as a team.
This dog was never certified as part of a
team with Officer Wheetley in this case. And the
certifications in this area are team certifications, not
individual certifications.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that a requirement too?
That's a constitutional requirement, that the dog
training doesn't count unless it's training with the
officer who is using the dog?
MR. GIFFORD: No, but that's an indicator of
reliability, which is the ultimate test here, has this
team been trained and certified together --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, fine. Counsel can
bring that up. Counsel can bring that up at the hearing
before the judge. But -- but I understood this to be
a -- a requirement. You never even get to that hearing,
because there's no evidence that this dog was ever
trained with this policeman.
MR. GIFFORD: That's correct, there is no
such evidence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, and therefore end of
case, right?
MR. GIFFORD: No, not end of case. The fact
that the dog wasn't trained with this policeman means
that you need to look for evidence -- other evidence of
reliability, which also doesn't exist in this case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Doesn't this -- this
officer has been working with this dog for many months.
They have training periods every week. So why isn't
that enough to show that this handler and this dog
worked effectively as a team?
MR. GIFFORD: Well, first, this weekly
training is maintenance training. It's to maintain the
dog at a level of proficiency that has previously been
established. That level of proficiency hadn't been
established with this team of Wheetley and Aldo. The
level of proficiency that had been established was with
Wheetley and with another Seminole County deputy.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what -- what are
the -- what are the incentives here? Why would a police
department want to use an incompetent dog? Is that any
more likely than that a medical school would want to
certify an incompetent doctor? What -- what incentive
is there for a police department?
MR. GIFFORD: The incentive is to acquire
probable cause to search when it wouldn't otherwise --
otherwise be available.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's a good thing?
MR. GIFFORD: Is that a good thing?
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you acquire
probable cause, you go in and there's nothing there.
You've wasted the time of your police officers, you've
wasted a lot of time.
MR. GIFFORD: And -- and you've invaded the
privacy of an individual motorist who was innocent.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, maybe the police
department doesn't care about that, but it certainly
cares about wasting the time of its police officers in
fruitless searches.
MR. GIFFORD: The incentive of the officer
to be able to conduct a search when he doesn't otherwise
have probable cause is a powerful incentive. As the
Court has said, ferreting out crime is a competitive
enterprise. And also, these --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Willy-nilly. Officers just
like to search. They don't particularly want to search
where they're likely to find something. They just like
to search. So let's get dogs that, you know, smell
drugs when there are no drugs. You really think that
that's what's going on here?
MR. GIFFORD: Officers like -- officers like
to search so that they can get probable cause so that
they can advance their career. Forfeiture is also an
issue in this --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They like to search where
they're likely to find something, and that only exists
when the dog is well trained. It seems to me they have
every incentive to train the dog well.
MR. GIFFORD: But the question goes back to
the dog's reliability, what the officer knows
objectively, and what that officer can demonstrate on
the stand to the trial court to determine by the
totality of the circumstances that that dog is well
trained.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm -- getting back
to -- I'm confused about the difference between must and
is required. What if the judge has before him or her a
record, this is where the dog went to school and it's a
bona fide school, this is where the dog was certified,
he's trained every -- every, you know, couple of weeks
or whatever it is, and the judge says, do you have any
field records, and the officer says, no, and the
drug says -- the judge says, well, then no probable
cause. That's reversible error, right?
MR. GIFFORD: It is reversible error if we
know what went into the training and certification. Was
that training and certification sufficient to prove the
dog was reliable? Did it include the use of blanks and
did the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You have, I guess,
experts testify about whether -- what constitutes a good
training program.
MR. GIFFORD: No, not necessarily experts,
but simply the -- the officer who participated with the
dog can testify as to what he and the dog went through
to obtain the training certificate and the -- and the
certification.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I assure you that if we
agree with you there will be a whole body of experts
that will spring into being about dog training. I
assure you that that will be the case.
MR. GIFFORD: Those experts already exist.
They -- they are prevalent in the case law already.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I understood the Florida
Supreme Court, counselor, to say that the deficit in the
training records here was because there was no evidence
of false positives, that the reports didn't say, the
training reports didn't say, if the dog was alerting
falsely.
Assume that the record, as your adversary
claimed, shows the opposite, that a satisfactory
completion means that the dog detected drugs where they
were. What -- why wouldn't the training records here be
adequate in that circumstance?
MR. GIFFORD: That would be one of several
showings that would make the training records adequate.
Also, you would want to know whether there were
distractors used in the field. However, I don't believe
that the record supports, except -- and this is
arguable; the parties dispute this -- for the
maintenance training.
All the state had for the initial training
with Deputy Morris, not with Deputy Wheetley, was a
certificate: One certificate that said this dog was
trained by the Apopka Police Department for 120 hours
with Deputy Morris; another certificate saying that this
dog was certified by Drug Beat narcotics certifications,
again with Deputy Morris, for 1 year.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I guess what I'm
asking you is, as a matter of law you want us to hold
that training records are inadequate unless what?
Unless -- you're going to specify now a list of things
they have to include?
MR. GIFFORD: No. This Court in -- in a
number of circumstances has provided examples that can
guide a court in probable cause determinations. In
Illinois v. Gates, under the old Aguilar-Spinelli test,
the Court specified where evidence on one prong can be
so strong that it substitutes for evidence on another
prong. In Ornelas, the Court pointed to local knowledge
that can be relied upon, such as the winter climate in
Milwaukee.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but -- but counsel,
you're defending a Florida Supreme Court opinion which
says "must." You can't just say, you know, I'm not
asserting any particular thing is necessary, just, you
know, totality of the circumstances. You have an
opinion here in which the Florida Supreme Court says
"must." It must include the, you know, the field
training. Now, do -- do you disavow that or -- or do
you want us the ignore it? What?
MR. GIFFORD: That is -- that is not the
holding on which I'm relying here. The holding on which
I'm relying is that training and certification alone,
the mere fact of training and certification alone, is
not sufficient to establish the dog's reliability.
And as to the language about "must,"
remember, the Florida Supreme Court didn't just say that
the failure to produce one of these elements
necessitated reversal.
It then went and engaged in a totality of
the circumstances test. And several lower courts
applying that case, applying Harris, have reached the
same conclusion. In two of those cases --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If -- if this is absent in
the totality of the circumstances and you nonetheless
hold that there was probable cause, then "must" does not
mean "must," right?
MR. GIFFORD: "Must" means "must" if the
state has the records. If the records exist, then the
state must produce them because it bears the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not what the
Florida Supreme Court said? It listed, along with
training, that the -- the provision of records of field
performance.
MR. GIFFORD: I read that as: If those
records exist, the state must produce them, because not
only does it bear the burden of proof; it's the only
party that can produce these records because it keeps
the dog.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose it's -- it's a
dog that's just completed the training, training course,
top-performing dog in the training program, but there's
no field record.
MR. GIFFORD: If that -- if the training is
sufficient, if it has those elements that demonstrate
that the dog is reliable, those are the circumstances.
You have the totality of the circumstances there and
those circumstances don't include any field performance.
And, yes, under that circumstance, a trial court can
find the dog to be reliable.
JUSTICE ALITO: What is wrong with the
state's argument that field performance records are not
very probative because dogs detect odors, they don't
detect the physical presence of the substance that
created the odor, and therefore so-called false alerts,
cases in which a search was performed and no contraband
was found are not really cases of false alerts. What's
wrong with that?
MR. GIFFORD: Well, you don't know whether
they're cases of false alerts or not, because the state
will always point to the possibility of residual odor as
a reason. And we know from the studies that have been
cited in the briefs that there are other reasons that
dogs alert when that alert cannot be verified. Handler
cueing is identified as the chief one. And simply dogs
make mistakes. Dogs err. Dogs get excited and will
alert to things like tennis balls in trunks or animals,
that sort of thing.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that may all be true,
but then what -- what can one infer from the fact that a
dog alerted a number of times when no contraband was
found?
I think what you just said was the
explanation could be the dog detected an odor, but the
substance wasn't there, or it could be that the dog was
cued or the dog was confused or the dog is not very
competent. So what can one infer from these field
performance records?
MR. GIFFORD: Well, what you can infer is
this dog is not a very accurate indicator of probable
cause, because probable cause tests whether drugs are
likely to be found in a search that follows an alert.
If the dog's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But they are likely to be
found if there is a residual odor of drugs, even though
the drugs are no longer there. So it's not an
incompetent dog when he alerts because of the residual
odor.
MR. GIFFORD: But if a dog has -- but if a
dog has previously alerted and no drugs have been found
because the dog's hyperacuity causes him to smell drugs
that were there two days or two weeks ago, then the next
time that dog alerts, it's less likely, the probability
declines that drugs will be found.
It goes to what probable cause measures,
rather than what the dog training and certification
community measure, and that is, the likelihood, the
reasonable probability, that drugs will be found
following the search.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, how is that any
different than a police officer who comes to a car and
smells marijuana? He's never going to know whether
there is any more in the car or not. It could have been
smoked up an hour before. I don't know how long
marijuana lingers for, but -- I'm not sure why residual
odor affects the reliability of the dog, which was
Justice Scalia's point. It's no different than an
officer who smells something.
He doesn't actually know whether it's
physically still present or not, but we're talking about
probabilities.
MR. GIFFORD: That's correct. And -- and
the difference is that -- that the police officer can
describe what he has smelled and can say, I smell
marijuana. All the dog tells the police officer is, I
smell something I was trained to detect, perhaps, if I'm
operating correctly.
But getting to this -- this issue of
residual odor, our position is that an alert where no
drugs are found means that the dog -- that -- it
detracts from probable cause in that instance.
But that's not the only rule available to
the court. Residual odor, whether an alert was to
residual odor and is therefore correct and accurate, is
something that can be litigated.
In one of the lower courts that decided the
case after the Florida Supreme Court, the court looked
to the field performance records, and it found several
of them well supported on the issue of whether the alert
was probably to the odor of drugs; several it didn't
find. So that is an issue that can be litigated.
Another possibility is --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, excuse me.
Where -- when nothing is found, how can you tell whether
the dog alerted to a residual odor or simply made a
mistake?
Now, there may be cases where there is other
evidence that suggests that drugs were present in that
location, and, therefore, that is something from which
you could infer that the dog was alerting to residual
odor; but, the fact that you don't have evidence of that
doesn't mean that there wasn't residual odor.
MR. GIFFORD: No, it doesn't mean that there
wasn't residual odor. But, again, you go back to what
probable cause measures, I believe.
And the Florida Supreme Court didn't demand
evidence of residual odor. What it did is it said that
if field performance records exist, then the state can
explain unverified alerts in the field as residual odor,
and then a court can then evaluate that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's the magic
number? What percentage of accurate alerts or
inaccurate is enough for probable cause?
MR. GIFFORD: Well, this Court has always
hesitated to assign percentages to probable cause; but,
in the lower courts, once you get below 50 percent,
probable cause is much less likely to be found, assuming
that there is no other corroborative evidence, no other
reasonable suspicion factors.
I'd like to talk briefly about the Oregon
supreme court and what that court did in several cases.
Helzer and Foster decided in 2011,
independently of the Florida Supreme Court decision,
doesn't cite Harris; in Foster, the Oregon supreme court
had a dog that trained initially with the same handler,
unlike here, where the evidence was very strong as to
the features of the training and certification program,
and where that dog had, I believe, a 66 percent field
performance record.
Now, the court in Foster said that the dog's
reliability can be established by training,
certification, and performance in the field. The court
added that it didn't think that performance in the field
was the most reliable measure, but it's relevant, and
the court considered that 66 percent percentage.
But then, on the same day, in Helzer, there
was a dog that trained initially with a different
handler, that the handler ultimately testified to very
few details of the ongoing training and the
certification.
In Foster, the certification was with an
organization that required a 90 percent success rate.
In Helzer, there was no such testimony.
And this officer, like the officer here,
didn't keep field performance records when the dog
alerted and no drugs were found.
In Helzer, the court found that there was
insufficient evidence of reliability. And I believe
that those two cases demonstrate what is a -- what is a
correct line to draw in navigating what is reliable.
On several arguments made by the state, the
argument was that the maintenance training included
blanks, and that the dog did not alert to blanks. The
record, we believe, supports the Florida supreme court's
conclusion that blanks were tested -- the dog was tested
on blanks, but there was no testimony as to whether the
dog didn't alert on those blanks.
The state has said that the dog was
subsequently recertified. I don't find support in the
record for that. At a suppression hearing, the state
argued -- the officer testified that the dog was
scheduled for another certification, but we don't know
whether the dog was ever recertified.
The Court can affirm the Florida Supreme
Court simply on the failure to produce adequate
documentation of certification and initial training, and
on the fact that this dog was never certified with this
trainer -- with this handler and didn't initially work
with this handler.
You don't have a dog here who was reliable
enough to demonstrate probable cause. The Florida
Supreme Court so concluded. I believe its conclusion
was correct. And unless there are additional
questions...
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The alert -- the alert
here could have been to residual odor, or it could have
been to drugs inside the pickup truck. If it's --
because the alert was in front of the -- a front door
handle, is that -- so it -- it's equally likely that
it -- that it was just residual odor or that there were
drugs inside the pickup truck.
Can the police establish probable cause
when what the dog alerted to may well have been residual
odor and nothing inside? The dog didn't alert anyplace
other than the door handle, is that...
MR. GIFFORD: It can constitute probable
cause. What Officer Wheetley testified to in this case
was he believed that this alert was to residual odor
on the door handle --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Excuse me. Did you say it
can or it can't?
MR. GIFFORD: It may. It may. It can
constitute probable cause in this case.
Officer Wheetley testified that this dog
alerted to the door handle. And in his prior
experience, when the dog alerts to the door handle, it
means that someone who had smoked or consumed drugs or
handled drugs had touched the door handle.
Now, if Officer Wheetley had testified that
in his experience when he'd seen such alerts and
conducted a search, drugs were found inside the vehicle,
then that residual odor alert would support probable
cause.
Officer Wheetley did not so testify. There
was insufficient evidence that this residual odor
alert -- that a residual odor alert of this nature,
without finding drugs afterward, supports probable
cause.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But at least we don't have
to worry about mothballs in this case; is that right?
There are no mothballs?
(Laughter.)
MR. GIFFORD: No. No mothballs to my
knowledge. No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Was that the holding in the
Florida Supreme Court, that there was no probable cause
because the dog alerted to the wrong part of the truck?
MR. GIFFORD: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Was it any part of their
reasoning?
MR. GIFFORD: They were concerned about
residual odor alerting without any explanation by the
state as to how residual odor alerting supports probable
cause.
But the primary basis for its decision was
the lack of performance records and the lack of records
supporting initial training and certification to show
that this dog was reliable.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And if we think they were
wrong in that respect, I suppose that you would say the
Court shouldn't reverse, but should vacate and remand
because the question did alert him to the door handle,
was that enough? Was that enough to establish probable
cause that there were drugs in the vehicle?
MR. GIFFORD: Well, I don't think the door
handle itself is -- is dispositive. I think it's the
door handle plus the lack of evidence that we have a
reliable dog.
And, again, the reason you need a reliable
dog, evidence on what training and certification means,
is that there are no standards, no standards whatsoever
for initial training.
Some states do have standards for training
and certification. Florida does not. And no standards
for -- for maintenance training as well.
In order to have probable cause, you have to
know what that certification, what that training means,
if you don't have standards that will tell that for you.
If there are no additional questions, I'll
conclude.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Garre, you have 3 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Your Honor.
First, probable cause in this Court's
precedents looks not only to the likelihood that
contraband would be present, but the likelihood that
there would be evidence of a crime. And that would
include the so-called residual odor, evidence that drug
paraphernalia, someone had recently smoked illegal
narcotics in the vehicle, or the like.
So the alert to the so-called residual odor
of drugs is just as probative to the question of
probable cause as an alert to drugs themselves.
The fact that Aldo alerted to the door
handle area of the car doesn't negate in any way the
probable cause that Officer Wheetley had to search.
What it means is that the door handle area was where the
scent of the illegal narcotics was the strongest. It
could have been narcotics coming out of that area, or
coming out of the door seam, or could have been the fact
that someone who had used narcotics was using the door
handle to get in and out of the car.
Second, courts can determine reliability in
this context. They would look to the performance in the
controlled training environment. There is a real danger
with suggesting that field performance records are --
are a permissible foray for defendants in suppression
hearings to challenge the reliability of dogs because,
one, as Justice Alito pointed out, it's not a controlled
setting.
We don't know whether the dog did alert to
residual odors of narcotics that had been in the car,
drugs that were hidden and simply not found during
the relatively --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would you -- would you
allow counsel to ask about that?
MR. GARRE: I think they could ask about it,
Your Honor. I don't think they could demand the
performance records themselves. And that would be a
huge deterrent to law enforcement, even maintaining
those records.
Third, Officer Wheetley and Aldo did train
together for nearly a year before the search in
question. They did complete the 40-hour drug detection
seminar at the Dothan, Alabama, police department. And
that certificate's at page 105 of the record.
And second, as Justice Scalia pointed out,
all the incentives in this area are aligned with
ensuring the reliability of drug detection dogs. It's
not in the police interest to have a dog that is
inaccurate in finding contraband or that is inaccurate
and putting an officer in harm's way.
Humans have relied upon dogs for law
enforcement-related purposes, due to their extraordinary
sense of smell, for centuries. Dogs, trained drug
detection dogs and explosive detection dogs, are
invaluable members of the law enforcement community
today.
We would ask the Court to reverse the
decision below, which would act as a serious detriment
to the use of that valuable tool.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:01 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
6:11 12:13 animals 41:14 asked 20:18 2:4,11,14 3:6
53:6 12:13,15 22:2 annual 5:14 8:20 38:11 30:1,2,4 37:24
alert 3:10 13:4 answered 3:17 assign 45:2 believes 7:22
42:2 20:10 22:17 apartments Assume 37:16 bit 19:8
44:24 24:4 41:11,11 19:11 assuming 7:7 blanks 36:19
18:3,4 43:16,20 44:1 9:21 38:6 45:4 46:19
46:15,19 47:12 appeals 3:23 assure 37:4,7 board 26:25
48:14,18,18 1:14 Australian 13:8 bomb 27:3
46:8 47:20 approach 6:13 24:8,16 29:17 30:3
37:14 25:17 B briefs 14:8
8:7,8,22 alerts 13:21 14:5 21:24 23:25 10:17 18:1 bring 8:4 33:9,9
47:2 14:12 16:4,7 area 10:11 15:12 21:20 24:14 buildings 26:13
48:8 argue 17:21 based 13:4 C
aligned 52:12 46:23 basically 24:24 calculate 24:15
allow 25:24 17:22 18:22 49:12 captured 11:10
29:18 Amendment arguments 24:7,16 51:11,21
5:13 12:2 46:13 bear 40:9 care 35:3
amicus 1:19 2:7 21:21 28:2 31:17 40:2 cares 35:4
10:3,12 certificate's cite 27:7 45:11 41:23 corroborative
14:4 52:10 cited 41:10 consideration 45:5
15:25 certification claimed 37:17 32:14 counsel 13:6
17:9,25 5:10,14 6:19 classes 10:19 considered 18:19 19:6
19:7 6:19 7:1,9,12 CLAYTON 1:6 45:22 28:4 33:8,9
21:20 9:7,11,13 11:2 clear 10:13 consisted 5:2 38:24 42:22
25:2,15 11:5,14 12:2,5 clearly 4:21 8:11 consistent 29:15 50:13 51:25
28:2 21:9 28:16 climate 38:22 consistently 53:1
32:23 31:1 32:16 close 9:2,4 32:12 13:3 counselor 37:11
36:17,18 37:3 come 14:8 16:3 constitute 47:23 count 33:3
39:19 39:10,11 42:18 16:6 48:5 country 15:6,16
47:24 45:14,19 46:2 comes 16:1,11 constitutes County 32:21
53:3,5 46:3,24 47:3 25:19 28:14 36:22 34:9
22:24 certifications coming 51:8,9 29:24 30:2,4 36:11
39:20 32:24,24,25 community constitutional course 11:17
44:9 38:8 42:19 52:21 33:2 12:11,12 14:4
46:11 certified 11:23 competent constitutionali... 17:22 19:25
8:23 10:7 33:7 36:10 competitive consumed 48:9 40:13
13:18 38:8 47:4 35:9 contained 5:3 courses 10:24
certify 34:14 complete 52:8 content 7:9,10 court 1:1,12 3:8
23:3 cetera 19:20,20 completed 4:16 context 23:7 3:16,23 4:1 6:1
28:11 challenge 3:20 9:5,20 11:22 51:13 6:11,25 8:2,13
34:17,22 17:24,25 51:17 14:21 40:13 continuous 4:25 9:25 10:12,17
36:15 challenges 15:5 completion 5:23 continuously 13:8,17 14:18
39:23 chance 4:2 37:18 4:4 5:17,17 15:9,22 16:19
chasing 27:21 conceding 31:22 contours 8:2,4 19:1,2 20:5,13
44:17,25 chief 3:3 18:19 conceive 3:25 contraband 4:3 21:5 22:12
47:8,19 18:21,25 21:23 conception 12:22 15:10 23:10,24 24:7
48:5,15 22:1,7 26:23 13:18 41:3,18 50:20 24:24 25:10,10
49:3,11 27:12 28:4,8 concern 24:13 52:15 25:17 28:9,20
50:8,18 36:6,21 41:12 concerned 28:21 contracted 6:17 29:2,6,9,13
44:23 50:13 49:8 control 29:19 30:3,9,19 31:2
15:20 27:18 concluded 47:9 21:18 23:8 32:13 35:9
Circuit 25:16 conclusion 24:14 51:14,18 36:3 37:11
17:4 40:21 conduct 28:11 coon 27:20 40:4,21 43:20
35:3 7:23 10:2 conducted 6:10 12:10 23:2 44:22 45:1,8,8
49:3 18:10 45:10 detected 37:18 49:23 46:15,17,19,20
52:23 49:12 52:24 41:21 dispute 38:1 46:23,25 47:4
deeply 13:20 27:3 distracters 6:3 48:6,8 49:4,15
26:5,22 defendant 3:20 detection 3:10 distractors 49:25 50:2
39:18 16:12,16,18 4:3 9:21 12:9 37:24 51:20 52:14
45:3 17:6 22:20 12:12 15:9 distrust 15:22 dogs 4:5 7:19
23:12,14,15,23 25:3,8,8 27:6 diversity 25:14 12:9,19,21
24:12 defendants 52:20,20 34:14 14:22,23,25
50:18 17:21 51:16 detector 28:13 documentation 15:6,9,15,23
deficit 37:11 determinations 4:12,16,18,21 26:10,11,13,14
delve 6:2 8:2 determine 7:16 6:14 7:16 8:21 27:6,10,13,20
23:6 26:4 44:18 52:2 51:12 13:2,4,9,21 41:13,13 51:17
demanded 20:5 determines 14:18,21 16:1 52:13,17,19,20
46:11 47:8 23:3 24:17 17:10,11,21 18:11,12,14
25:20 detracts 43:18 19:15,21 20:21 31:6 36:1
41:12 24:11 deviated 31:14 21:18,22,22 45:17
8:7 9:12,22,23 36:7 43:10 25:19,21,25 48:1,7,8,10
38:6 52:9 17:17,23 21:7 27:10,17 28:21 51:3,6,9,10
describe 43:11 28:24 38:5,8 40:11 50:22 52:8,13
detail 28:1 29:1 disagrees 28:25 41:18,21,22,23 drugs 4:20 5:7
20:22 40:25 23:16 44:7,12 45:12 28:14 35:15,15
22:16 25:7 37:5,8 31:24 32:2,11 found 16:8 18:7
44:2,10 32:3 39:12 expired 5:10 32:14 36:13 41:4,19 42:4,7
47:14,18 47:19 49:20 explain 44:21 37:24 39:5 42:12,16,20
established explains 27:7 40:5,15,20,24 43:17,25 44:6
51:1,2 20:25 34:6,7,8 explanation 41:24 43:25 45:4 46:8,9
45:18 41:21 49:9 44:20,21 45:15 48:13 51:22
40:17 15:10 23:11,12 30:22 32:16 50:18
31:6,17 33:12 41:17 44:13 flat 10:5 G 1:15 2:3,13
15:6,7,8 45:5,13 46:10 45:6 6:11,25 9:21 2:13 3:3,5,7,14
23:20 48:17 49:24 facts 32:10 18:9 20:4 21:4 3:16 4:7,14
52:4 50:2,21,22 failure 13:12 22:12 23:10 5:11,22 6:8,18
evidentiary 3:18 39:15 47:2 24:6,12,24 7:2,5,14,25 8:9
examine 10:18 22:20 30:19 31:5,16 10:8,11,21
exist 29:14 30:8 features 45:14 focus 24:16 50:14,15,17
15:13,14,19 12:23 23:11,16 former 6:20 43:15
9:13 11:6 expert 26:6 26:16 28:17,24 Foster 45:9,11 2:10 28:5,6,8
20:18 experts 36:22,24 30:15,19,22 45:17 46:3 28:23 29:8
31:8 22:19 26:8,20 Helzer 45:9,23 important 5:16 28:15 30:25
28:19,23,25 46:5,9 5:23 20:14,20 32:15 38:3
33:5,14 32:5,7 heroin 27:2 21:12 24:23 47:3 49:14
34:3,16 government's hesitated 45:2 27:19,23 50:4
35:6 22:14 hidden 51:22 impose 5:14 initially 20:17
36:16 great 27:25 history 15:14 23:20 45:12,24 47:5
37:8,21 GREGORY hit 24:10,15 imposed 25:6 innocent 35:1
39:8,25 1:15 2:3,13 3:5hold 8:13 26:6 imposing 22:12 inquire 4:15
41:6 50:15 38:11 39:23 improper 4:13 17:20
43:9 Group 27:6 holding 39:9,9 inaccurate inquired 29:1
45:1 grow 14:16 49:2 44:25 52:15,15 inquiry 7:15
48:4,25 guess 36:21 home 20:11 inadequate 21:24
38:10 homeland 19:4 38:12 inside 47:14,18
6:5 11:1 4:14 5:11,22 34:14,16 35:6 insist 9:25
12:5,8 H 6:9,18 7:25 35:8,24 instance 43:18
30:13 handle 47:16,22 8:10 10:8 11:8 incentives 34:11 institutional
32:4 48:1,7,8,10 12:1 14:1 52:12 26:21
40:3,12 49:19,23,24 16:17 17:9 include 14:11 insufficient
49:16 51:4,6,11 20:18 21:7 36:19 38:14 46:10 48:17
21:10,14 22:21 12:14 38:6 28:2 invaded 34:25
18:1 34:1 41:11 huge 52:4 34:12,14 42:9 invaluable
24:13 45:12,25,25 humans 14:23 independently 52:21
32:8 47:5,6 52:17 45:10 issue 35:20
44:16 handlers 12:3 Hurricane indicative 18:11 43:15 44:1,3
handler's 9:8 hurricanes 42:2 J
15:2 16:3 23:4 hyperacuity 32:25 35:1 Jersey 26:17
21:20 harm's 12:24 42:13 individuals 14:9 Joint 11:18
25:4 52:16 infallibility 20:5 Jones 25:16
29:21 Harris 1:6 39:19 I 20:6 JOSEPH 1:17
38:13 45:11 identified 21:16 infallible 4:5 2:6 18:22
Harvard 10:18 41:12 infer 41:17,24 judge 7:8,12,15
hearing 3:19 illegal 18:4 inflexible 22:13 9:9,20 13:14
36:22 17:20 30:24 50:23 51:7 24:25 22:1,3,5 23:2
22:15 helpful 24:3 10:13 initial 27:24 judges 22:23
22:23 28:18 likelihood 42:19 Massachusetts 3:24
4:7,8
limit 11:11 matter 1:11 mistakes 41:13
6:5,15 kinds 22:6 25:6
7:3,6
lingering 18:12 53:6 monitor 14:18
8:6,15 9:3 know 8:4,25 lingers 43:2 matters 24:20 monitored
10:9,15 10:19 12:19 list 29:7,24,25 29:20 13:15
12:5,8
16:10 38:13 mean 5:25 7:18 months 5:10
14:15
21:5,6 listed 40:4 18:5 29:24 21:20,21 32:19
16:24 24:8,9,11,14listing 31:15 30:16 34:21 33:24
18:5
29:19
35:14 36:11,17 44:3 means 21:5,7 mothballs 48:22
20:1,9 37:23 39:1,3,5
22:1
42:24local 38:21 39:25 43:17 motion 23:13
23:9 43:1,6 46:24locating 11:4 48:9 50:2,9 motorist 35:1
26:23 50:9 51:20 location 44:11 51:6 mouth 26:20
28:4
29:3 38:21 49:1 long 19:2 43:1 18:6 N
30:3,12 knows 36:1 longer 42:8 measure 24:22 N 2:1,1 3:1
31:3,9 K-9 26:16 look 10:1 25:15 42:19 45:21 narcotics 9:21
27:6 33:20 measured 7:11 11:4 12:12
33:1,8,16 L 51:13 20:25 16:4,7,8 18:4
34:10lack 30:23 32:14 looked 43:24 measures 42:17
38:8
35:2
49:13,13 looking 14:20,24 44:17 50:24 51:7,8
36:6 49:24 26:17 medical 10:17 51:10,21
37:4,10 Lago 10:12 looks 29:11 10:19 34:13 national 7:1,3,7
39:21language 39:13 50:19 meet 27:23
42:6,22 large 25:2 lot 17:5 34:24 mentioned 46:12
44:5,23 Laughter 48:24 lower 25:3 39:18 10:12 nearly 52:7
48:2,21 law 6:20 15:6,7 43:23 45:3 mere 39:11
19:5 Ludwig 25:15 meth 27:15 36:24
51:18,24 20:16 23:20 methampheta... necessary 39:2
53:1,3 25:2,6,18 M 18:13,15 necessitated
maintaining methodologies needs 24:16
17:2,13 led 17:5 28:16 31:1 methods 8:3 nervous 19:20
25:9,23 legal 8:19,20 34:4 38:2 16:14 never 16:3 32:22
let's 35:14 major 27:18 38:23 47:4
46:7 level 15:7 26:21 marijuana mini 26:6 New 26:17,17
once 22:20 particularly 50:16 present 30:10
22:25 27:17 45:3 13:8 35:12 physical 41:1 43:7 44:10
38:16 ongoing 20:17 parties 38:1 physically 43:7 50:20
44:24 21:13 28:1 party 40:10 pickup 47:14,18 presented 13:7
operated 6:20 passages 29:9 16:21 presume 6:12
3:5 18:22 28:6 45:22 46:4 41:8 43:4 principal 20:4
24:5 organization 9:6 45:2 police 4:23,24 privacy 35:1
42:7 46:4 perfectly 21:18 6:10,17,22 8:7 private 6:16,19
43:3,16 Ornelas 38:21 perform 15:1,2 8:22 9:12,22 probabilities
44:2 outcome 20:21 19:4 9:22 10:13 43:8
outline 32:5 performance 11:12,17 12:13 probability 4:2
47:13 outside 20:11 4:9 5:5 10:1 13:1 19:12,19 13:23 20:2
23:7,11,16,24 23:4 34:11,15 42:15,20
P 24:2 28:17,24 34:23 35:2,4 probable 3:11
50:22 P 1:21 2:10 3:1 30:7,11,15,16 38:6 42:23 3:25 4:1 8:23
28:6 30:18,20,22 43:10,12 47:19 10:6,25 13:18
51:21 15:13 52:10 32:14 40:6,20 policeman 33:13 22:16 25:7
12:10,15 Palmore 1:17 43:25 44:20 position 5:13 34:17,22 35:8
19:19 2:6 18:21,22 45:16,19,20 12:19 13:3 35:18 36:14
32:23 18:25 19:14,24 46:7 49:13 17:19 19:8 38:17 39:23
35:6 20:2,13 21:3,6 51:13,15 52:3 28:19 43:16 42:2,3,17
21:25 22:5,10 performed positives 20:24 43:18 44:17,25
43:5,10 23:5,9,18 11:16 21:2,16 37:13 45:2,4 47:8,19
46:6,6 25:13 26:2 21:18 25:25 possibility 41:8 47:23 48:5,14
47:24 27:4,16,22 41:3 44:4 48:19 49:3,10
paraphernalia performing 7:16 powerful 35:8 49:20 50:8,18
52:6,16 50:23 periods 33:25 precedents 51:2,5
13:1 17:9 22:14 23:15 51:16 predicting 13:5 44:2
35:4,11 32:4,9,22 49:4 permutations predictors 15:10 probative 40:25
49:6 23:1 premises 18:2 51:1
20:11 39:2 2:14 3:6 18:24 28:14 41:1 problematic
17:7 p.m 53:5 received 4:22,23 46:10 51:12,17 44:7,12,14,16
6:24 7:7 18:2 recognized 19:2 15:9,18,19 49:9,10 50:22
31:6 22:19,21 23:1 8:13,16,16 22:25 24:15 respect 13:19
39:15 23:22 24:13 9:14,19 20:25 25:21 26:22 31:23 49:17
47:2 25:24 35:25 22:9 27:25 31:2 36:19 respond 17:16
52:8 40:15 45:16 46:12 47:7 1:22 2:11 28:7
7:17 8:21 questions 7:8 records 10:1 reliably 19:3,22 results 7:10 17:7
11:3 9:18 16:19,20 11:18,18 14:25 20:22 21:15 reversal 39:16
25:20 16:24 19:7 21:19 23:17 relied 14:3 reverse 49:18
28:1 22:6,20 26:2 29:13 30:7,7 38:22 52:17 52:23
47:11 50:11 30:11,15,18,20 rely 14:14 15:9 reversed 32:12
6:6 32:11,14,15 18:17 right 7:5 10:20
26:8 R 36:13 37:12,19 remand 49:18 14:22 18:8
36:23 R 1:17 2:6 3:1 37:22 38:12 remember 22:4 23:5
45:14 18:22 40:1,1,5,8,10 32:18 39:14 25:12 26:1,16
really 5:5 6:2 regularity 6:12 9:14 19:25 36:6,21 44:23
41:4 relevance 28:24 46:4 routine 23:19
reasons 22:18 26:10 28:13 reserve 18:17 satisfactorily
18:18 50:15 43:3 45:18 43:2,16,20,21 37:17
29:13 seen 48:12 43:5 46:13,20,22 suggesting
31:5 seminar 4:24 smoked 43:1 49:10 51:15
52:9 48:9 50:23 states 1:1,12,19 suggests 44:10
19:22 34:9 Solicitor 1:17 12:4 18:23 48:14
30:9 sense 26:20 somewhat 13:6 50:5 supported 44:1
52:19 20:15 state's 29:15 supporting 1:19
separate 19:7 sort 17:11 41:15 40:24 2:8 18:24
27:20 separately 21:10 17:23 stop 12:25 supports 37:25
31:3,9 serious 52:24 SOTOMAYOR strong 12:20 46:16 48:19
33:1 service 14:17,22 4:7 6:15,23 7:3 38:20 45:13 49:10
set 3:18 22:13 9:3,7,24 10:9 strongly 21:16 15:25 40:12
sets 24:25 13:6,20 14:15 studied 20:8 49:17
38:24 setting 4:19 13:9 19:6,17 20:1,9 studies 13:7 supposed 14:18
42:6 20:16,18,23 21:1,4 37:10 20:7 41:9 suppression
51:24 21:15,18 23:8 38:10 42:22 study 14:1,7,14 3:19 23:13
24:14,21 25:20 sound 25:18 19:22 30:24 46:22
shifts 30:24 speak 23:15 submit 11:12 18:9 20:5
34:13 11:3,12 28:1 31:14,19 subsequently 25:17 29:5,8
30:16 31:2 specifically 5:12 46:21 29:12 30:3,19
12:17 37:22 spring 37:6 38:20 45:11 46:16
28:12 shown 27:25 squirrels 27:21 sub-issues 22:11 47:1,9 49:3
31:9 shows 37:17 stakes 26:10 success 24:22 sure 25:5 26:24
35:7,12 side 14:3 15:21 stand 9:17 22:21 46:4 43:2
42:4,21 simply 36:25 standard 7:1,4 24:21 26:7 26:17
51:5 41:12 44:7 19:9 20:3,19 successfully suspicion 45:6
47:2 51:22 standards 7:7 4:16 7:17 9:5
smell 6:4 35:14 29:10,14 30:10 19:15 23:3 taken 14:17
8:1,10,11,20 27:9 35:24 40:21 U.S 26:11
10:11 11:8,24 trained 3:10 troubled 13:7,21 V
14:2 15:4,12 12:6,11 16:12 49:4 vacate 49:18
33:7 20:13,20 21:6 27:1,5 33:7,13 TSA 26:13 variety 22:18
21:25 22:5,17 33:19 35:23 two 4:13 19:6 vehicle 3:10,11
25:14,22 26:4 52:19 46:11 vehicles 4:19,20
41:20 45:20 6:14,16,21 7:4 27:10 Virginia 25:16
28:11 52:1,2 9:6,8,15 10:23 U Vista 10:12
38:18 third 11:3 52:6 11:2,6,15,17 ultimate 33:6 volume 15:13,14
thought 6:15 11:22 12:13 ultimately 8:12
22:4 thousands 22:24 16:2,2,15,21 understand Wales 14:1
22:24 16:25 17:17 15:25 20:1 walking 5:2
47:24 12:17 13:10,22 21:10,11 24:19 understanding want 8:24 12:22
14:6,24 16:5 25:20,25 26:1 8:19 12:23 13:2
48:16 22:16 25:23 28:16,16,21 33:10 37:10 35:12 37:23
42:15 32:15 33:3,3 unfixed 13:23 wanted 24:7
28:3,4 today 15:16 37:19,22 38:2 universe 14:11 warrantless
53:1 52:22 38:3,12 39:6 16:10 28:12 29:16
tool 20:16 52:25 39:10,11 40:5 unprecedented Washington 1:8
22:8 40:14 42:18 45:14,18 unusual 11:9 wasn't 17:24
34:19,20 totality 7:23 46:1,14 47:3 unverified 44:21 32:20 33:19
41:15 10:2,4 28:10 49:14 50:2,4,5 updated 4:4 41:22 44:14,16
38:13 39:22 40:19 treated 9:5 26:11,12 31:8 wasting 35:4
totally 29:17 trial 3:19 23:2 31:10 34:12 way 9:12,13
5:16 traffic 12:25 29:2,18,19 uses 26:14,14 12:24 51:4
40:23 41:5 5
x 1:2,7 60 14:9
14:24 Y
year 11:17 12:16 7
years 14:4 25:4
38:9
19:22,24
52:10
37:1
11:19
1:4
1:13 3:2
21:17
11:19
32:23
13:10,21
38:4
53:5
48:6,11
9:20 38:6
51:5
4:22
5:10 32:19
12:12
2:7
22nd 21:17
28 2:11
3
33:24 30 25:4
40 9:22 12:14
40-hour 4:24
