IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ROSELVA CHAIDEZ, :
Petitioner : No. 11-820
v. :
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Thursday, November 1, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:01 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ., Stanford, California; on
behalf of Petitioner.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 31
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:01 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 11-820,
Roselva Chaidez v. United States.
Mr. Fisher.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FISHER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In the more than 20 years since this Court
decided Teague v. Lane, it's had more than a dozen cases
in which people have sought habeas relief based on
ineffective assistance of counsel, but this Court has
never once held that applying Strickland in those
divergent factual settings constituted a new rule.
For two reasons, this Court should reject
the government's argument to do so for the first time
here.
First, Padilla was dictated by precedent;
that is, like other Strickland cases that came before
it, this Court in Padilla simply applied Strickland's
formula of assessing attorney performance according to
prevailing professional norms to a new set of facts.
The second --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a surprise to
the, what, ten courts of appeals who came out the other
way?
MR. FISHER: No, I don't think so,
Your Honor. Two -- two things about the lower courts.
The first is, there are only three lower
court decisions that postdate the 1996 act that the
government can cite that came out the other way in terms
of the question presented here.
And the second thing is, even within those
cases and within those courts, they didn't distinguish
between deportation advice and other kinds of advice.
They distinguished between acts and omissions; that is
to say, it was a uniform rule in the lower courts at the
time this Court decided Padilla that misadvice
concerning the right to -- I'm sorry, concerning
deportation consequences of a plea did violate
Strickland.
So the distinction in lower courts was not
between deportation advice and other kinds of advice;
the distinction was between acts and omissions.
And in Padilla itself --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So maybe it
was -- maybe it was a surprise to the members of this
Court that disagreed with that --
MR. FISHER: No --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- with the ruling
in Padilla.
MR. FISHER: Well, obviously, there was a
dissent in Padilla, but this Court has held before that
new applications of Strickland did not constitute a new
rule, even though there were dissents.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Fisher --
MR. FISHER: In Williams --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- what -- what about the
argument that Strickland doesn't come into play unless
the Sixth Amendment includes the collateral consequences
in counsel's obligation to defend a defendant in a
criminal case under the argument that up to -- up to
Padilla, only advice relevant to guilt or innocence and
sentencing was required, not collateral consequences?
MR. FISHER: Well, that was obviously the
argument that the State of Kentucky made in that case,
and this Court dealt with it in part two of Padilla.
Now, remember, Justice Ginsburg, the Court
did not extend Strickland to collateral consequences in
Padilla. It actually reserved that question. What it
held is that deportation consequences are not removed
from the ambit of the Sixth Amendment.
So, remember, Strickland --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it's also a question
if -- if conviction meant loss of a professional
license, that would be an open question?
MR. FISHER: I think -- I think that's an
open question after Padilla.
What this Court held in Padilla -- and this
is the second to last sentence in part two -- is that
advice concerning deportation consequences of a guilty
plea are not categorically removed from the Sixth
Amendment.
So what I understood the Court to do in
Padilla was take the ordinary Strickland formula of
prevailing professional norms and simply apply it to
this criminal case. Remember, Padilla itself was a
criminal case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's always the case.
I mean, we -- we never come out with a decision that
doesn't rely upon some preexisting principle. We always
cite some preexisting principle. Does that mean that
every case of ours is -- is not new law?
MR. FISHER: Of course not. The question
this Court asked under Teague is whether it broke new
ground. And I think what this Court said in Padilla is,
we reject the artificial restriction on Strickland that
the lower courts have created; so, therefore, this Court
simply reaffirmed Strickland. It didn't --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Fisher, think
about this in an AEDPA context. I mean, assume that you
have these ten circuit courts all going in the way that
the Chief Justice said, and then one court came along
and said, you know, we think that they -- in an AEDPA
context, a habeas consideration of a state conviction --
we think that this is all wrong, and, in fact, the law
is exactly the opposite of what ten circuits have held.
Wouldn't we think that that's a very easy
case that the AEDPA standard had not been met?
MR. FISHER: I think you -- you may well
find that, Justice Kagan, but the reason why is because
you'd find that there was not an unreasonable
application of preexisting law. What you would not say
is that the clearly established law is any different.
So, remember, this Court -- this case,
because it's a Federal case, raises only the first
question under AEDPA, in a sense, which is what's the
clearly established law? And this is the Chief -- I
think this is responsive to the Chief Justice's question
about the dissent.
There was a disagreement on this Court about
how to apply Strickland, but the question's whether a
new legal rule was created, not whether there was an
unreasonable application --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why pick on Strickland? I
mean, you could say that about any principle of law that
we rely on: The dissent thought that that principle
applied a different way here.
What is different about Strickland that it
enables you to appeal to that, as opposed to appealing
to any principle of law?
MR. FISHER: Well, I think the best response
is what this Court said in Williams, which is Strickland
provides sufficient guidance to resolve virtually every
ineffective assistance claim.
So what this Court said in Williams is we do
not make new law when we apply Strickland.
I think Justice Kennedy --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there any -- Mr.
Fisher, is there any application, you call it application
of Strickland, that would qualify as a new rule, any
application at all, or is just Strickland never a new
rule?
MR. FISHER: I think so long as you simply
applied Strickland, you wouldn't create a new rule.
If you for example, said, a certain kind of
claim does not need to have a prejudice showing, that
would be a new rule.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose that a
really skilled attorney, after negotiating a plea
bargain, or even representing a client at trial but then
losing, is very skilled in ensuring that the defendant
can go into the general population, not into solitary
confinement; but also a skilled trial attorney, he's
just not very good at that, so the defendant goes to
solitary.
Could -- if there was an evolution of the
law of adequate assistance of counsel so that this Court
later held, oh, conditions of confinement have to be a
part of the attorney's -- skill and competence in
representation, that that would be retroactive?
MR. FISHER: Justice Kennedy, it wouldn't be
enough to have a later evolution of prevailing norms
because Strickland is a backward-looking device.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that there are then, in
answer to Justice Ginsburg's question, some cases in
which there could be a new rule of ineffective
assistance of counsel under Strickland?
MR. FISHER: Well, I think the answer to
that question is yes, and, as I said, something like a
scenario where this Court --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I don't understand
how that works with my hypothetical.
MR. FISHER: Well, let me -- let me try to
work with your hypothetical. I think what I hear your
hypothetical to say is that prevailing norms change, and
they evolve to a certain point where certain kinds of
advice is required, which is much what this Court said
in Padilla about -- about deportation advice.
You would have -- you would not have a new
rule to simply recognize that at the time that attorney
gave advice, that -- that Strickland was violated.
It would be a new rule, I think,
Justice Kennedy, to say that Strickland requires relief,
even though at the time the advice was given the
prevailing norm had not yet crystalized into the degree
that this Court requires.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The only new law is not a
new pronouncement which nobody had ever thought of
before, but only a pronouncement that rests upon an
evolution of mores; is that it?
MR. FISHER: No, I think what I'm trying to
say is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what I thought you
said.
MR. FISHER: -- Strickland -- Strickland
sets up a two-part test, and we're only talking about
the first part, which is attorney performance. And
that -- that question is keyed to attorney performance
at the time judged by reasonableness according to
prevailing professional norms.
Now, those prevailing professional norms
are, in a sense, a factual question, an empirical
question that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Fisher, it would seem to
me that this case presents a kind of threshold question.
Before you get to the question of what are prevailing
professional norms and whether they have been complied
with, there is the question of whether the Sixth
Amendment applies to collateral consequences at all and,
if so, which collateral consequences.
And that's the question on which Padilla
opines, and that's the question that seems, you know,
very different from anything that Strickland's discussed,
not just an application of Strickland.
MR. FISHER: Well, let me give you two
answers to that, because I think that's the government's
main argument here.
First is, as I've tried to say before,
simply saying that an exception that the lower courts
created doesn't exist -- doesn't create a new rule.
Imagine this Court said -- laid down a rule that covered
all cars, and the lower courts devised an exception to
that rule for convertibles. And when the Court -- when
the issue came to this Court, this Court said, well, no,
when we said all cars, we meant all cars.
To me, that doesn't create a new rule. And
I think that's what this Court said in part two of
Padilla, is that this artificial restriction that the
lower courts have devised simply can't be grounded in
Strickland --
JUSTICE BREYER: How many had?
MR. FISHER: Pardon me?
JUSTICE BREYER: How many had? I mean, I
would have thought it was common sense that a lawyer
should tell the client the terrible things that are
going to happen to him if he pleads guilty, those things
that the lawyer knows or should know about and the
client may not. Alright. That's a very general rule
at that level.
But some courts have said, no, that isn't
true. That isn't true unless -- if it's -- as Justice
Kagan said, if it's a collateral exception, if it's a
collateral consequence. How many had? Was it only
Kentucky, or was it fairly widespread, this exception?
MR. FISHER: Only three federal circuits
had had a ruling like that after the 1996 act --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there aren't that
many. There are eleven, and two of them are
specialized.
MR. FISHER: Well, if I can finish my
answer, only three had rulings like that after the 1996
act, and all three of those relied on pre-'96 act
rulings. And as court of appeals judges said, that's
just not quite enough for us to be entitled to overturn
our prior circuit precedent.
So while the government comes here today
and suggests that ten circuits and all these state
courts had ruled, in a sense, in its favor, you know,
it's almost more accurate to say none had had this issue
cleanly presented to them after the 1996 act.
And, Justice Kagan, if I --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but even before the
1996 act, deportation -- there were deportation
consequences. Those consequences were enhanced by the
1996 act; but, even before that, a reasonable lawyer,
you might think, would have a conversation with his
client about the deportation consequences of a
conviction.
MR. FISHER: That may well be true, Justice
Kagan, but I'm saying in the '96 act, as this Court said
in Padilla, whatever prevail -- whatever doubt there may
have been about prevailing professional norms
crystallized at that time because of the severity.
And I think that's the second answer I
wanted to give to your question about this so-called
threshold question in Padilla, is that even if there is
some question as to whether the Sixth Amendment applies
beyond, as the government puts it, criminal jeopardy,
this Court had already answered that question in St. Cyr,
where this Court said, in the text around footnotes 48
and 50, that any competent lawyer would give his client
advice and a warning about deportation consequences of a
plea.
So even if you needed more than Strickland
itself, St. Cyr gave that to you in 2001, which is
enough to decide this case; it was enough to decide
Padilla.
JUSTICE ALITO: If a court -- if this Court
were to decide in a future case that effective
assistance of counsel requires an attorney to advise the
client of all collateral consequences, potential loss of
a professional license, etc., would that be a rule that
was dictated by precedent?
MR. FISHER: I think it would -- I doubt it,
Justice Alito. I think it would depend on what the
prevailing professional norms looked like.
I take it what this Court said in Strickland
and what it reaffirmed in Padilla is, we're not going
to -- we're not going to micromanage effective
assistance of counsel. We're going to leave it to
prevailing professional norms.
I seriously doubt that prevailing
professional norms would require the holding that you
described; but, to the extend they did, I don't think it
would be a new rule. To the extent they didn't and
this Court said, we're going to push the Sixth Amendment
beyond that, you would have a new rule.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Fisher, I suppose you
are right, I'm sure you're right that the mere fact that
there was a dissent in the case that adopted the rule
does not necessarily make it a new rule. But you, on
the other hand, would agree, would you not, that those
who dissented from that case would regard it as a new
rule?
MR. FISHER: That's a tricky question to
answer, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I think it's an easy
question to answer.
MR. FISHER: Well, I think I could answer it
one of two ways. One is I could say yes, they did -- to
the extent they did regard it as a new rule, I think the
dissent was, with all due respect, slightly mistaken
about what the holding in Padilla was, which was not
to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's fair. That's fair.
The dissenters ought to reconsider, you're saying.
MR. FISHER: Well, I think that the way the
dissent put it was -- is that advice is now required
beyond criminal cases and criminal jeopardy.
The way that I think Padilla -- majority
described its holding was that this is a criminal
defendant in a criminal case entitled to advice from his
criminal lawyer, and the most important piece of advice
as to whether to take a plea or not involves deportation
consequences.
And, Justice Scalia, I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it just seems to me
that the predicate question that we decided in Padilla
was that Strickland applies to matters not within the
control of the trial judge. That it seems to me was a
holding the Court had not addressed before and that
other courts had not addressed before.
MR. FISHER: Well, it had to be more than
that, Justice Kennedy, because, of course, there is lots
of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, this is --
MR. FISHER: -- ineffective assistance
cases ­-
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- a predicate question.
MR. FISHER: Well, no, no. But I'm saying
there are lots of ineffective assistance cases before
Padilla that involved matters beyond the judge, that
turned on what the jury did, of course. And I could --
I may be able to think of others beyond those two
scenarios, but there's no language to that effect in
Padilla.
What the Court said is that we have never
created artificial distinctions about what an attorney
has to do. As this Court put it in Strickland,
Strickland itself, the client is advised to his lawyer's
advice about all important decisions. And as this Court
said in St. Cyr and other cases, the most important
consideration as to whether to plead guilty is whether
somebody will be deported.
And so you put that together and you had all
of the law you needed, certainly by 2001.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think you've
been -- you've been asked this, and I'm not sure I got
your answer. Give me an example of something that --
like the consequences in Padilla that would not be
covered by your argument?
MR. FISHER: Well, some sort of consequences
that -- that prevailing norms didn't require a lawyer to
advise his client on.
So, for example, I would expect that a
lawyer is not necessarily required to give detailed
advice about future employment opportunities to a client
depending on whether he pleads guilty.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You answered that
question when I asked it, you said that removal of a
professional license would not fall under -- wouldn't --
would be at least an open question.
MR. FISHER: It -- I think it would be an
open question as to how Strickland would apply.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you had --
MR. FISHER: I simply don't know what the
prevailing professional norms are in that situation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you had that
case, what would you rely on in arguing in favor of the
habeas petition?
MR. FISHER: Well, I would start with --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You would start with
Strickland, and you would talk with -- Padilla, right?
MR. FISHER: Yes, that's what I would do.
And I would look to prevailing professional norms.
And I think, if I could give a generic
answer, the question would be whether or not that kind
of advice is so important to the client's decision
making -- and that's the word the Court used in
Strickland -- that prevailing norms require the lawyer
to give that kind of advice.
If the answer to that was yes --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you want us to write
this opinion in support of your position, and to begin
by saying, prevailing professional norms do not change?
MR. FISHER: No, no, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me that
you're -- that the defense bar generally would want to
say that prevailing professional norms change, but
that -- that hurts you in this case.
MR. FISHER: No, I don't think it does,
Justice Kennedy. I agree with your premise, I think,
that prevailing professional norms can and do evolve.
And so the question this Court asked in Strickland is,
as of the time the advice was given, did the prevailing
norms require that?
The advice was given in this case almost at
the identical time of the advice in Padilla and, indeed,
far after St. Cyr.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I notice -- I'm not sure
it was cited in the brief, but the ABA comment in 1999
said, now the ABA standard applies to professional
standards, and that goes beyond the constitutional
minimum. So that doesn't seem to me to help you,
either.
MR. FISHER: Well, I'm not sure that's what
the ABA said. I believe the ABA, quite rightly, said,
we don't make constitutional law in this body; we leave
that to the courts.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It said, it should be
stated that these standards do more than enforce the
constitutional minimum.
MR. FISHER: Well, I think there may be
elements of the standards that did.
But, remember, we're not just talking about
the ABA here. As this Court noted in Padilla and as one
of the amicus briefs from NACDL notes in this case,
there's a wide --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm talking about
the -- I'm talking about the ABA here, if you want to
give some other authority; but, I say that, it seems to
me, does not help you.
MR. FISHER: Well, then I'll rely on just
the overall body of professional norms, which is what
this Court looked to in Padilla and what it's always
said it has to look to under Strickland cases.
If I could return -- if I could transition
to talking about the -- the nature of the
backward-looking effect of Strickland, I think there is
an important second question in this case, that if this
Court were inclined to hold that there was a new rule,
you'd be forced to confront. And it's a very serious
question involving this Court's administration of
criminal appellate procedure. And that is whether
Teague ought to apply at all in this context.
We believe that under the system this Court
established in Massaro for handling IAC claims, it
simply doesn't make any sense to apply Teague here and,
indeed, would throw a gigantic monkey wrench into the
way things are -- have been done for the last decade
after that decision.
And -- and for two reasons: One, in
theory --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Fisher, before you get
to the reasons --
MR. FISHER: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- the government says that
you forfeited this argument. Could you address that?
MR. FISHER: Sure. We didn't forfeit this
argument. It's fairly included within our question
presented. We raised it at the first available
opportunity in the Seventh Circuit because we were
foreclosed by circuit precedent from raising it. So we
raised it before an en banc court.
And in our cert reply brief, lest there be
any doubt, when the government suggested that we would
be restricted to arguing the new rule question in this
case, we put a footnote in our cert reply brief which
expressly told the Court, no, we view this question
presented as including this additional argument, whether
Teague applies or not.
So I think we gave fair notice to the Court.
And if you have any doubt --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you haven't presented
this argument to any court before; is that right?
MR. FISHER: We made the argument in an
en banc petition to the Seventh Circuit, which we
couldn't make it to a panel because Seventh Circuit law
had already held that Teague applied in this context.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it relevant that this is
a coram nobis proceeding, rather than a habeas
proceeding?
MR. FISHER: No. I think we agree with the
government that it doesn't -- matter.
The way we see this is it's a first Federal
filing. It's a first post-conviction filing, and it's a
timely filing. The government is not challenging the
timeliness of this filing.
So the question you have to ask yourself is,
under a system where this Court has said that IAC claims
should not be brought on direct review, but rather
should be brought on collateral review, whether you can
apply Teague at the very first instance that somebody
has to make a constitutional claim, and we think not.
On theory --
JUSTICE ALITO: On that question, before
you -- not in relation to the Massaro argument, but in
relation to the Teague argument, you think the rule in
coram nobis is the same, that the Teague rule applies
fully in coram nobis in the same way that it applies in
habeas?
MR. FISHER: Well, that's the way the whole
case has been litigated, and I think that's a fair
assumption.
The reason that we're on coram nobis instead
of --
JUSTICE ALITO: Have we ever held that?
MR. FISHER: No, you haven't. And so if you
want to be extra careful, you can -- you can say the
parties haven't challenged that.
Remember, the reason that we're on coram
nobis is Ms. Chaidez was not in custody. And so if
somebody -- so it's, in a sense, interchangeable with a
2255.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, yes, I understand
that, but the consequences of a retroactive application
in coram nobis are more severe than they are in habeas,
aren't they, because of the lack of a statute of
limitations?
MR. FISHER: More severe in the sense -- I'm
not sure I understand in what sense.
JUSTICE ALITO: You -- well, in -- under --
under the current Federal habeas statute, you have a
rather short statute of limitations to file the habeas
petition.
Under coram nobis, if you prevail, then
people who were -- who were convicted of offenses
decades ago can raise the Padilla claim, can they not?
MR. FISHER: I'm not sure they -- I'm not
sure they could, Justice Alito. At Pet. App. 38, you'll
see the district court dealing with the timeliness of
this petition. And the district court finds that Ms.
Chaidez could proceed because she used all reasonable
diligence in bringing this claim.
And the government can make laches
arguments, can make other arguments to defeat that. The
government has renounced those -- I mean, they let those
arguments go in the Seventh Circuit and don't raise them
again here.
But I think that, at a minimum, it would be
fair to say that somebody needs to bring a petition as
soon as the government advises them they're going to
seek deportation.
I'm not even sure, Justice Alito --
JUSTICE ALITO: What if someone -- if there
is an attempt to -- a notice of removal for someone
based on a conviction that occurred a long time ago,
then that would be --
MR. FISHER: You could -- you could have a
time lag, but there is two things to remember. First
is, you might have a timely 2255 in that circumstance,
too, because, remember, in Holland v. Florida, this
Court held that equitable tolling is available for
people with IA -- with ineffective assistance that leads
to them not being able to make the claim earlier.
And the second thing is, as I was discussing
with Justice Kennedy, the backward-looking aspect of
Strickland would -- would require the party -- once you
get more than a little while back, the prevailing norms
may not -- may not be there for that kind of a claim.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Fisher --
MR. FISHER: And so that's --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Fisher, are
you -- you're not making any argument that Teague is
inapplicable because this -- the underlying conviction
here is a federal conviction, not a state conviction,
and Teague emphasized comity to the states; you're not
making that argument?
MR. FISHER: No, I think you could hold
that, and that is -- that is within our argument. I
don't think you need to go that far, Justice Ginsburg.
As you said, this Court has said time and again that
Teague relies on comity. That's not present in this
case.
But we think a narrower way to decide this
case, and I think the appropriate way to decide this
case, is to say, at least for ineffective assistance
claims, when you're bringing -- with a Federal prisoner,
or somebody who has been convicted of a Federal crime,
that's bringing their first petition, that Teague can't
apply.
And what I was just trying to say is
Strickland itself --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, except -- except
that -- and I'm interrupting, in a sense, but it's on
the same track -- except that it seems to me that Teague
does serve the interest of repose, quite apart from
interference with a federal proceeding, and that
interest is surely sacrificed by the holding you wish us
to make here.
MR. FISHER: Well, Justice Kennedy, I'm glad
you asked because that was what I was going to say.
In Strickland, this Court dealt with
finality very explicitly and said, we're creating this
standard which is different than other constitutional
standards because we're concerned about finality. And,
as this Court said at pages 697 and 98, so, therefore,
no different rules ought to apply in collateral
proceedings as in direct review, because this Court
assumed in Strickland itself and it assumed expressly
again in Padilla that all of these claims would be on
collateral review.
So in all these cases the Court has said
finality -- the concern -- the very concern you
mentioned, Justice Kennedy, is already baked into the
Strickland formula.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Fisher, I'm
concerned that creating exceptions to exceptions in
Teague is just a throwback to Linkletter standard --
MR. FISHER: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- where we're making
choices among situations and saying, these will be
retroactive, these won't.
MR. FISHER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Answer that concern on
my part.
MR. FISHER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And then answer -- the
next step is the Martinez type case --
MR. FISHER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- which is what happens
with state reviews that are -- that channel IAC claims
to their habeas processes. So what trumps what in that
situation?
MR. FISHER: Okay. Let me answer both those
things. First, we're not asking this Court to create
an exception to Teague. We're simply asking this Court
to say Teague doesn't apply when a claim is, quote, "on
the equivalent of direct review," which is what this
Court said in Martinez v. Ryan. This Court has already
held with respect to IAC that habeas rules, like the
procedural default rule and like the Stone v. Powell bar
against Fourth Amendment claims, don't apply in the IAC
context. So this follows exactly from those previous
holdings.
Now, let me say two other things and then I
can hopefully reserve my time. To answer your question
about Martinez in state cases, it would depend on what
the state system looked like, and I think states have
their own decision to make as to whether they want a
system like Arizona's, where these have to be brought in
collateral proceedings, or whether, as I understand at
least a couple of states do, say, we're going to stay
and delay the entire direct review process, for years
often, to allow the IAC claim to be brought then.
Now, that's exactly what this Court rejected in
Massaro, and the government asked this Court to reject
that in Massaro; said we don't want that kind of a
system. I don't know why the government is asking for
it for the first time today.
And finally remember, the last thing I would
like to say is, all these problems raise not only
finality concerns about the stay and remand procedures
the government suggests; they also raise insoluble
conflicts of interest problems for federal defender
offices, who would have to bring IAC claims against
themselves on direct review in order to preserve their
ability to -- to get full relief for their client.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Perhaps on rebuttal -- I
recognize the white light's on -- you could address what
is -- what is the standard you want me to apply to
determine retroactivity? The brief says, oh, well, it's
just new facts applying to the same general rule. Well,
danger invites rescue; the assault on privity is
proceeding to pace; MacPherson v. Buick and the Erie
Railroad case -- it seems to me that those were probably
new rules, but there -- it's because the facts told us
what should be negligent. If at some point you could
address that, I don't --
MR. FISHER: Justice Kennedy, what I would
like to do, and I am happy to elaborate, is the
formulation as I think you yourself put it in Wright v.
West, which is that a rule that is -- that is applied to
a new set of facts does not create a new rule; but if
you advance the law in some way you do create a new
rule.
The last thing I would like to say about
consequences is: Remember, the government doesn't even
have any answer for what is going to be half or more of
the situations where people have Padilla-type claims,
which is when they have a guilty plea and waive their
right to direct appeal. So there the collateral filing
like this is -- is absolutely the equivalent of direct
review. And so I think this Court ought to be very wary
of going down that road.
If I could reserve the time I have left.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Dreeben.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In Padilla v. Kentucky this Court announced
a new rule within the meaning of Teague v. Lane.
Because --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think that's true
with respect to both components of the advice, the
omission and commission? I mean, it does appear that
every court who dealt with the commission-type claim,
the fraud, the misrepresentation of consequences, said
it's clear you can't lie to your client. Now, is Teague
now going -- is our ruling here going to depend on the
type of claim that's raised, with respect to IAC?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Sotomayor, this
Court in Padilla didn't distinguish between misadvice
and omissions to give advice. And it therefore
adopted --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: At least one of our
concurrences did, or talked to. So assuming --
assuming -- is your position that is on the
retroactivity, that it applies to both kinds, omissions
and commissions, and neither is retroactive?
MR. DREEBEN: As for -- as for Padilla's
rationale, the answer is yes, but there is a rationale
that governed, in our view, misadvice claims that
existed before Padilla. It wasn't addressed or embraced
in Padilla. It was addressed in Justice Alito's
concurring opinion. Justice Alito gave two reasons
which essentially mirrored the reasons that had been
given in the lower courts for treating misadvice
differently. And that is, affirmative misadvice
violated a more basic duty of counsel that was well
established, which is not to represent that you're
competent on a matter that you are not competent.
And the second distinction between misadvice
and failure to give any advice is that a client has a
constitutional right to make his or her own decision
about whether to plead guilty; and a lawyer has a
constitutional duty not to get in the way of that by
affirmatively skewing the client's ability to make that
choice.
And so I would probably not disagree that
misadvice claim was not new before Padilla and it's not
really addressed by Padilla's rationale. It has its own
independent sources, and the courts that had adopted
that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure. Are those
sources -- when you say sources, it's professional norm
sources?
MR. DREEBEN: It's a different professional
norm and it's a different aspect of the Sixth Amendment
right. And all of the courts that had adopted
misadvice -- there were three of them that had done it
in the removal context; there were three more that had
done it in the parole eligibility context -- they all
simultaneously adhered to the view that as a general
matter there is no obligation to give advice about
collateral consequences.
And they did this, I might add, despite the
fact that, as Justice Kennedy alluded, the ABA, which
was cited as one of the key sources of prevailing
professional norms, stated in Standard 14.3.2, in the
criminal justice pleas of guilty standards: "To the
extent possible, defense counsel should determine and
advise the defendant sufficiently in advance of any plea
as to the possible collateral consequences that might
ensue from entry of the contemplated plea."
So there was an aspirational professional
norm that collateral consequences would be on the table,
but all Federal courts that had looked at this question
before Padilla had concluded that collateral
consequences are outside of the duty of criminal defense
counsel.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me
where -- my colleagues were asking about hypothetical
future cases -- I'm asking, do you think that every
evolving professional norm, no matter how well
established it becomes, would never be subject to the
Teague rule because -- would always be a retroactive
application or a new rule?
MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are we frozen in time to
whatever the professional standards are that exist today
that the Court has recognized so far?
MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Sotomayor. And I
think this is the key point about Strickland.
Justice Kennedy made this point in a concurrence in
Wright v. West, and it was later cited by the Court
as -- as reflecting an accurate understanding of
Strickland. It is a basic norm of professional
competence, and it does not turn on professional --
prevailing professional norms in publications such as
the ABA. They are informative.
And those norms can evolve. The Court can
then announce Sixth Amendment applications of them that
will be not -- not new rules. This Court has decided
close to 30 Strickland cases, according to our count
since the 1984 decision in Strickland.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's -- what's the sense
of that? Why -- why -- let's assume, you know, at the
time the guilty plea or whatever occurred, it was not
the professional norm, and then later the professional
norms change and he makes the argument that -- that he's
entitled to relief, and you say yes, because --
MR. DREEBEN: No, I say no, Justice Scalia,
because professional norms are judged as of the time of
the attorney's action. So although the professional
norms can evolve, Strickland always looks to an actor at
the time of the decision.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that what your opponent
contends as well?
MR. DREEBEN: I think you probably should
ask my opponent what he contends, but Strickland is
fairly clear that professional norms at the time of the
attorney's action are what governs.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, so given the ABA
and everything else, why doesn't that apply here?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, the ABA doesn't state
this Court's interpretation of the Sixth Amendment.
This Court made that very clear in Roe versus --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but I mean if the
general rule is that Strickland evolves to pick up
changing professional norms, and that -- you looked at
30 cases and that's what you get out of them -- and then
it turns out that at the time this case began, there was
such a professional norm; and all that happened in
Padilla is that the Court following its general practice
said apply that professional norm; then why doesn't the
other side win?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, first of all,
Justice Breyer, that's not what the Court did in
Padilla. What the Court did in Padilla, as Justice
Kagan explained, in section two of its opinion was first
to address the question whether a criminal defense
lawyer had any obligation to give advice about a
consequence that would not be administered in the
criminal case itself.
No decision of this Court had ever held that
the obligations of a criminal defense lawyer under the
Sixth Amendment extended to that.
JUSTICE BREYER: That, of course, is true,
but the professional norm had evolved by the time of the
proceeding here that they would.
MR. DREEBEN: That was not the basis of the
Court's decision. The Court --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but -- in the other --
in the other, by the way, in the other 29 cases, did the
court specifically say in each of those 29 cases that
the basis of our decision is that the professional norm
has evolved and we apply the new professional norm as of
the time?
MR. DREEBEN: Most of the cases involved
well-settled duties, like the duty to investigate,
applied to particular sets of facts. That doesn't
generate a new rule.
What was unique in Padilla is that the Court
had to address something that it had never done before,
whether the criminal defense lawyer had to give advice
about a consequence that the sentencing court had no
control over.
And in resolving that question, this Court
did not cite professional norms. It did not cite the
ABA. It did not cite any of the defense manuals that
recommend that lawyers advise aliens about the
possibility of deportation.
It instead traced the statutory evolution of
the relationship between deportation and criminal
justice, it examined its own cases that had discussed
what a competent defense lawyer ought to think about,
and it discussed statutory evolution. And it drew from
that the principle that deportation is uniquely tied to
the criminal prosecution in a way that no other
collateral consequence possibly is, and, therefore, the
Court did not decide any other collateral consequence.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, as I recall, correct
me if I'm wrong, one of the principal sources the Court
cited in Padilla was common sense.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does common sense change?
MR. DREEBEN: Common sense may evolve --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, Tom Paine wrote
about it, so, you know, since its original.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Kennedy, I think the
Court relied on the idea that any lawyer worth his salt
would inform a defendant about a particularly important
consequence, a momentous consequence of pleading guilty.
You probably would say the same thing to
somebody who you knew was an avowed hunter and would
lose the right to have firearms, or a politician that
would lose the right to hold office, or a doctor who
would lose a medical license, all of which can be
automatic consequences of a conviction; actually, more
automatic than deportation, because deportation is
administered by a separate body, oftentimes by a
separate sovereign that has discretion whether to even
institute deportation proceedings.
And so the fact that we might all share an
intuition that good lawyers should advise their clients
about the panoply of consequences that they will
experience by pleading guilty, the reality is that until
Padilla, the Court had never veered from the track of
saying the lawyer's duty is to help the client figure
out what his odds are of prevailing at trial, what the
sentencing consequences are, whether there are any
affirmative defenses, and what the rights are that the
client would give up by pleading guilty.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dreeben, Padilla
itself was a collateral proceeding. And if the state
can argue in Padilla itself that a new rule was being
sought and that that was permissible only on direct
review, should the state have prevailed?
MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Ginsburg, because
this Court held in Danforth v. Minnesota that Teague is
an interpretation of the Federal habeas statute. It's
an implied delegation to the Court to frame appropriate
rules for Federal collateral review.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this Court is a
Federal court, so --
MR. DREEBEN: Well, this --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- if your concern of
Teague is comity, concern about -- the states running
their own system, I understand the different ­ the
state collateral and the Federal collateral view; but,
if the idea of Teague is we don't want the Federal court
to come in there and overlook what the state court did,
why wouldn't that apply to this court reviewing a state
court decision as much as it would apply to a Federal
district court at a hearing habeas from a state
conviction?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Danforth made clear that
states have discretion whether to adopt Teague-like
rules. They do not have to. They can allow their
citizens to have the benefit of new rules in state
convictions. And this Court is doing nothing other than
honoring the state's own policy choice.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, do we know that
that's true in Kentucky?
MR. DREEBEN: I think Kentucky does have a
Teague-type rule, but the Kentucky Supreme Court decided
the issue on the merits. The state never raised Teague
here. Teague is waivable. So even if you do not agree
with me, Justice Ginsburg, that Danforth means that
Teague had no relevance whatsoever, Teague was waived by
the state. The state never addressed it. And this --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And this Court could not
have raised it on its own?
MR. DREEBEN: Could have, but didn't. There
is nothing in the majority opinion that says that Teague
is an issue.
Now, again, when I say could have, but
didn't, that reflects the -- the reality that this Court
can do certain things sua sponte. I do not think that
in a case coming from a state system Teague has anything
to do with it. Whether this Court is reviewing the case
on direct review from a state system or reviewing a
state collateral proceeding, Teague is not an issue.
It's solely an issue when you have a 2254 proceeding or
a 2255 proceeding.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What is -- what is the
standard that you wish us to apply? A new rule is
announced when -- when you fill in the blank. And after
you fill in the blank, is your principal argument that
here the distinction is between the direct consequences
of the conviction that are under the control of the
Court and collateral consequences? Two different
questions.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Kennedy, my test is
not a new rule. My test for Teague new rules is this
Court's test: Whether the decision was dictated by
precedent so that any reasonable jurist would have
reached that result, or, to put it another way, that no
reasonable jurist could not have.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's a little bit like
the AEDPA standard.
MR. DREEBEN: It's similar. I think the
Court has said that things that don't count as new rules
under Teague can also be cognizable under AEDPA. AEDPA
has a contrary to provision, as well as an unreasonable
application provision, as Mr. Fisher pointed out; but,
as far as the contrary to provision works, it parallels
Teague.
So we're not asking the Court to make any
new rules up about Teague. We're asking the Court to --
to apply Teague.
And in the application of Teague, the
government is relying on this Court's form of analysis,
which is you look at the state of the law at the time of
the decision in question, when the decision became
final, and you ask whether precedent compelled the
result that a later decision reached. And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Have we applied -- have
we applied Teague to Federal convictions before?
MR. DREEBEN: This Court has not, except in
the sense that in Bousley v. United States, the Court
ran through a Teague analysis before holding that a
substantive interpretation of a Federal statute is not
captured by Teague. So, in that sense, the Court has
presumed the applicability, but it hasn't squarely held
it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It hasn't.
And at least one important basis for the
Teague rule is the comity to the state court system,
which you don't have when the underlying conviction is a
Federal conviction.
MR. DREEBEN: True, Justice Ginsburg, but
this Court has also recognized that Federal courts have
an interest in the finality of Federal convictions
that's every bit as strong as state courts.
And so, for example, in
United States v. Frady, the Court applied the procedural
default rule exactly the same as it applies in state
cases to Federal 2255 proceedings.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the second part of my
question that you were about to answer was whether or
not it's dictated by precedent, and in this case, it was
not dictated by precedent because it applied to
collateral consequences; or, what's the because?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, there are two becauses.
One is no court had held, as this Court did in Padilla,
that deportation, though not administered by the
sentencing court, was so intimately tied to the criminal
case that the direct collateral distinction was not
useful in this context. There was no precedent that
dictated that.
And then, more generally, as you're
suggesting, Justice Kennedy, the lower courts had all
adopted the direct collateral reviews. Ten courts of
appeals in published decisions, the Sixth Circuit in an
unpublished decision, 28 states and the District of
Columbia had all adhered to that line.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So unanimous error makes
right?
I'm not being -- I'm not trying to be
sarcastic. I'm trying to see -- in almost every case we
get here, there are split opinions below. Sometimes the
split is significant or closer than other times. The --
where do we draw that line? Where in the next case is
any time there is a split below or where there's an
unanimity of opinion below, it won't fall under -- it
will automatically create a new rule?
MR. DREEBEN: I would not suggest that the
Court adopt a mechanical approach. Here, all of the
factors that the Court has looked at all align in the
same direction. The lower courts, Federal courts, had
all agreed that deportation was not the subject of a
duty of advice. The majority of the States had held the
same.
This Court's decision in Padilla was
significantly splintered, with four justices challenging
the majority's rule as a dramatic expansion and upheaval
in Sixth Amendment law. And then when you actually look
at the Court's Sixth Amendment jurisprudence, Padilla
did not claim that any decision was controlling of its
holding.
The closest case was the Hill case,
Hill v. Lockhart, and in that case the Court approached
a collateral consequence, namely, parole eligibility
dates, and it said: We don't have to decide that issue
on whether parole eligibility dates can be the subject
of a Strickland claim, because Hill had failed to show
prejudice. And therefore, it was recognized as an open
issue whether a consequence that's not administered by
the sentencing court could be within Strickland.
So when you have the coalescence of all of
those factors, I don't think that's a case where the
Court has to draw a fine line between when a sufficient
split below is enough to --
JUSTICE BREYER: Can you go back for a
second to Justice Ginsburg's question? I'd like -- I
just don't want you to leave without -- without
answering the following: Normally a new rule that this
Court announces would apply to cases on direct review.
MR. DREEBEN: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. In the case of
inadequate assistance of counsel, without being picky,
the place where that claim is best developed, in my view
is first collateral, because for reasons we both
understand. All right. So given the fact that by and
large it is, and I think should be, developed in that
way, why not treat in the case of an inadequate
assistance claim the first collateral as in other claims
you treat direct review?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, let me give
you a merits answer to that question, and then an answer
on why I do not think Petitioner has fairly preserved or
presented that issue to this Court.
The merits answer is that Teague reflects a
fundamental judgment that when a case is final on its
direct review, society has a strong interest in
protecting that judgment. And the exception to that is
when the state or the Federal government has not
conformed to existing constitutional law.
Now, bringing that down to earth for
ineffective assistance claims, at the time that Ms.
Chaidez's conviction became final, and all convictions
that became final before Padilla, jurisdictions had no
reason to think that they needed to protect against the
possibility that a criminal defense lawyer would not
have advised about deportation, because the unanimous
view was that's not something that's the Sixth Amendment
duty.
Immediately after Padilla came down
reflecting that it was, the Criminal Rules Committee
began considering an amendment to Rule 11, which is now
pending before the Judicial Conference, that would
require judges to advise defendants about the
possibility of deportation consequences. In other
words --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was -- it was approved
by the Judicial Conference in September.
MR. DREEBEN: I will accept that, if that's
correct, Justice Ginsburg.
The point is that as soon as Padilla made it
clear that a constitutional rule about defense counsel
could threaten the finality of guilty pleas, the Rules
Committee has taken steps to protect the integrity of
federal judgments through a Rule 11 amendment. It had
no opportunity or reason to do that -- I can't say no
opportunity, but it had no reason to do that as a
constitutional matter until the Court decided Padilla.
And so there is a logical relationship between --
JUSTICE BREYER: You could say that, you
could say that same thing precisely about the cases on
direct review which have not been completed. I mean,
you could give all those arguments exactly the same. If
you're worried about the time, you could have time
limits on the first Federal -- the first Federal habeas
or state habeas.
There are time limits there. You could add
to those. And the -- the -- the direct review is itself
a balance. It's a balance between the surprise and need
to complicate the case, and it hasn't really finished
and da, da, da, versus the problem of giving a person a
chance to raise this argument even for a new rule.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes. I --
JUSTICE BREYER: And so all those -- those
are the -- when you look at the functional factors, it
looks quite similar to me and I'm trying to --
MR. DREEBEN: I don't think that it's quite
identical, Justice Breyer, but there are additional
considerations that are at stake here, too. First of
all, Massaro, which Mr. Fisher relies on, doesn't
preclude a defendant from raising a claim on direct
review. It says that it's not a procedural default if
he does not do that. A criminal defendant will probably
not be in great shape to raise a -- a new rule claim on
direct review, but he also will not be in great shape to
raise it on collateral review.
Unless this Court alters its Sixth Amendment
holdings, such a defendant will be pro se, they will not
have a lawyer, they will be pretty much in the same fix
that they are in on direct review.
Now, if this Court announces that new rules
under Strickland are not going to be applied to
defendants whose convictions became final, then those
defendants who want to raise a new rule claim are on
notice that they'll need to do it on direct review.
Courts of appeals will be on notice that if someone
raises such a claim, the appropriate thing to do is to
adjudicate it or remand for its adjudication.
Now, right now the D.C. Circuit doesn't
follow Massaro. It does remand ineffective assistance
claims. Mr. Fisher said he was unable to locate any
cases where this actually happened. You don't have to
look any further than down the road to the arguments
next week in Smith v. United States, which involves a
different issue, but the D.C. Circuit remanded an
ineffectiveness claim in that case to the district court
in direct review. It has a practice of doing that.
This is actually a much easier process to
administer than a general exception to Massaro,
because --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We -- we're seeming to
go backwards. You -- you seem to be arguing against
something that you didn't want previously, that there
should be a stay and determine these IAC claims on
direct appeal. It seems to be your argument that that's
the preferred process now.
MR. DREEBEN: It's not a preferred process
for ineffectiveness claims generally. I think Massaro
makes that clear. But you have to understand how rare a
new rule under Strickland really is, the way that the
Court has administered Strickland to date.
Applications of the existing Strickland
standard to particular sets of facts are not new rules.
That's why in the 28 years since Strickland none of this
Court's decisions, and there are about 30 of them, under
Strickland added up to a new rule. Padilla broke ground
because it answered the question, not how does
Strickland apply, but whether it applies at all to
something outside the compass of the sentencing court.
And so in that respect, there's no reason
why the standard practice under Massaro should change if
this Court were to address the issue and make clearer
that new rules are not going to be applied on collateral
review.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dreeben, if
Justice Breyer were right, that there should be sort of
one run -- run up the flagpole and that Teague doesn't
kick in until that one run up the flagpole and here
because of Massaro the one run should include collateral
review of IAC claims, if that's right, what are the
costs of that? Is that an extra year to the statute of
limitations for bringing a collateral claim or is it
something more than that?
MR. DREEBEN: It could be something more
than that, because if the Court announces a new rule and
makes it retroactive to a case on collateral review,
(f)(3) of the statute of limitations provision gives the
defendant another 1 year. And I think this case
actually illustrates the mischief of that. This case
doesn't arise on collateral review. It arises on coram
nobis 5 years after the conviction became final.
Now, if Petitioner were really serious that
this Court should carve out from Teague ineffectiveness
claims and adopt a rule just like the one that it did in
Martinez v. Ryan, which is what he says on page 31 of
his brief, then the Court should not give him the
benefit of that rule, because Ms. Chaidez was on
probation for 4 years after her conviction, she could
have raised this claim after her conviction and sued.
She did not do that. She had her opportunity. She
didn't take advantage of it. And I think this helps
underscore why, if I can turn to this issue not being
properly presented in the Court.
Petitioner did not raise the ineffective
assistance of counsel type carve-out from Teague that
Mr. Fisher raises in this case.
That debuted for the first time in his
merits brief after certiorari was granted. The
government acquiesced to get resolution of the new rule
question that had divided the circuits and that will
exist. However this Court resolves this case, if it
chooses to resolve it on the Massaro grounds, the new
rule issue will still be salient for the States, it's
still a circuit conflict that the Court needs to
address. It was not raised below, it wasn't raised in
the certiorari petition.
The en banc petition raised a very general
argument that Teague should not apply to federal
convictions along the lines of what Justice Ginsburg
asked me about, whether comity concerns and their
absence meant there should be a difference.
So you've got an argument that, so far as I
can tell, has never been made to any Federal court
before it's been made to this Court, and it would be
remarkable for the Court to adopt that and then have to
figure out, how does it apply. Does Teague ever kick
in? Is it a permanent exemption for ineffective
assistance claims?
Lots of questions that no lower court has
looked at, and that I would suggest this Court should
not be the first to answer.
It also raises an entirely new set of
questions about whether Brady -- which also are kinds of
claims that are typically raised on collateral review --
should now be exempt from Teague jurisprudence?
I think the Court would really be engaging
in kind of a sort of examination of Teague that had
never happened before. It's sort of like experimental
surgery on Teague. Shouldn't really happen in this
Court in the first instance.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Although you said you
recognize that we have not had a Teague case involving a
Federal conviction, I mean, there is lots of language in
Teague cases about the Federal courts not interfering
with state courts, that Teague was intended to minimize
Federal intrusion into state criminal proceedings, to
limit the authority of the Federal courts to overturn
state convictions. I mean, we have really pressed
that -- that basis.
MR. DREEBEN: True, but Petitioner is not
pressing that basis on this Court. He's all but
disavowed it. He's not seriously argued it in response
to our brief that opposed his brand new ineffectiveness
carveout from Teague. What he has done instead is
concentrated much more on an analogy to Massaro.
If I could give one more reason why I think
the Court should refrain from entertaining that
Massaro-based analogy here, the Court has just begun to
embark in the Martinez v. Ryan line of cases on trying
to figure out how ineffectiveness claims should be
handled on collateral review.
It grants its certiorari on Monday in
Trevino v. Thaler, where it's going to explore how does
Martinez apply in a jurisdiction that may be more like
the Federal system in that ineffective assistance of
counsel claims aren't channeled only to direct review,
they can be asserted on direct -- I'm sorry -- only to
collateral review, they can be asserted on direct
review. They are channeled largely to collateral
review, but not as a matter of law.
So the Court has a lot of work to do in
figuring out what that decision means. And I think
rather than embark on a brand new process of applying
that kind of reasoning in a case where it was never
raised below, where the government never really had the
opportunity to counter any of those arguments, and the
lower court never had the opportunity to consider them,
it's not a wise use of the Court's resources.
Instead, resolving the new rule question
that has divided the circuits would provide an answer
for us and the 28 states that filed an amicus brief that
supported the United States on the new rule question,
and would result, I think, appropriately, in concluding
that Padilla was a new rule, unique among this Court's
Strickland jurisprudence up to that time, and is not
available to cases on collateral review.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Fisher, you have two minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FISHER: Thank you.
I'd like to make two points.
The first is, picking up where Mr. Dreeben
left off, I'm not asking for any anything that is
difficult.
Mr. Dreeben referred to the Frady case,
where this Court held that there is enough of an
interest in finality to have procedural default apply to
federal post-conviction review. Yet, in Massaro, this
Court carved out IAC claims.
Exactly the same analysis applies here, and
I do think the Court really ought to answer that
question in this case because, if you hold that Padilla
is a new rule and that Teague now applies to IAC claims,
rest assured the Federal courthouses are going to be
flooded, flooded with Federal -- with Federal defenders
and other criminal lawyers raising IAC claims on direct
review. There'd be nothing else a responsible lawyer
could do, because if you say Teague applies on -- if you
wait until collateral review, but it doesn't apply on
direct review, any responsible lawyer seeking to protect
his client has to bring it on direct review. It's going
to absolutely change the way criminal procedure and
criminal appellate procedure happens in the Federal
court system.
The second point I wanted to make is back to
the new rule question. I think I heard Mr. Dreeben say
that the lower courts that had said that misadvice about
deportation consequences violated Strickland had said
something that was within Strickland that didn't
constitute a new rule. So it can't be that Strickland
broke new ground, if he's correct, by saying deportation
advice falls within the ambit of the Sixth Amendment in
a guilty plea context.
The only thing he relies on in the end is
this distinction the lower courts had drawn between acts
and omissions. And that's exactly the distinction in
Strickland that this Court rejected.
And in Padilla itself, this Court used the
word absurd. And I think, Justice Kennedy, when you
mentioned commonsense, I think we could throw that in,
too.
And so to the extent that the argument, at
the end of the day when everything's stripped away, is
that the lower courts were reasonable in saying that
failing to advise about the most important thing a
client would have been thinking as to whether to plead
guilty is not ineffective assistance of counsel, whereas
giving bad advice is, that's a line that Strickland
itself rejected, that Flores-Ortega rejected when it
came to the right to appeal and whether the lawyer ought
to give advice; and, it's a line that this Court in
Padilla had no difficulty whatsoever rejecting and
called it absurd.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Fisher, can I go
back to one of your points? Your red light is on, but
it is important. The floodgate issue.
MR. FISHER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure about the
floodgates for the following reason. Once we announce
Padilla, any pending direct claim and any pending
collateral claim that arises after Padilla for something
that happened after Padilla would be covered by the
rule, so there'd be no bar to those claims. So the
floodgate is temporary, if there is --
MR. FISHER: No, it's not,
Justice Sotomayor.
The issue arises because Teague ordinarily
comes into play when somebody asks the Court to create a
new rule and apply it to him. So all the hypotheticals
we've talked about today, about would Strickland apply
here, would Strickland apply there, to parole advice, to
professional license, all of those claims would be
asking, if the government's correct, for a new rule.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. FISHER: And so all of those claims
would have to be brought.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:02 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
administration Alito's 32:5 44:6 49:11 appropriately
34:21 21:6 allow 29:8 40:10 appear 31:11 55:8
37:16 adopt 40:9 alluded 33:13 APPEARAN... approved 47:12
52:25 alters 49:2 appellate 21:7 argued 54:2
58:22 33:5 44:5 amendment 43:1 argument 1:12
advantage 52:1 15:9 28:21 11:17 24:4 5:18 11:20
14:10 16:6,10 47:20 49:2 applied 3:22 8:5 26:6,8 31:2
19:20,21 31:10 55:6 42:19,20 43:13 52:18,22 55:14
31:19 32:14 analogy 54:5,8 43:19 49:7 57:8
58:12 57:25 19:25 22:9 55:1
47:9 57:11 45:25 49:6 apply 6:13 7:24 artificial 6:24
30:7 47:2 answer 9:18,21 21:8,11 23:6 asked 6:22
37:10 advises 25:5 13:4 14:2 26:19 27:11 17:21 18:8
52:15 AEDPA 7:3,6,11 15:19,21,22 28:16,21 29:24 19:17 27:5
32:4,5 affirmative 32:9 19:5 28:3,6,13 37:3 40:4,5 asking 28:14,15
40:22 39:8 28:25 30:17 41:13 42:12 29:12 34:3,4
ago 24:16 25:10 53:6 55:5 56:2 54:14 55:23 asks 58:9
19:15 22:21 18:7 50:17 58:12 33:4
agreed 44:23 answers 11:19 30:1 54:23 33:21
align 44:21 App 24:18 approached asserted 54:17
38:22 22:18 23:9,20 50:5 57:16 appropriate assessing 3:23
9:10,20 52:17 51:7 45:25 48:1 25:14
15:3 bar 19:11 28:20 broke 6:22 49:17 53:19 cite 4:8 6:19
17:4 58:4 50:16 56:22 54:9 55:11 37:15,15,16
26:15 bargain 9:3 brought 23:4,5 categorically cited 19:24
based 3:13 29:4,8 58:17 6:9 33:14 34:16
52:5 25:10 Buick 30:3 cert 22:3,6 38:5
54:15 basic 32:10 certain 8:23 citizens 40:11
34:18 C 10:4,4 41:5 claim 8:12,24
54:1 call 8:17 52:16 54:12 29:8 31:12,16
began 36:3 47:7 captured 42:25 23:25 24:21 46:4,9 48:21
behalf 1:16,18 cars 11:25 12:3 Chaidez's 46:23 49:21 51:7,24
10:8,25 21:9 carveout 54:4 22:25 45:2 27:14 28:10,21
14:18 benefit 40:11 carve-out 52:5 chance 48:12 29:19 30:18
51:22 case 3:4 5:14,18 change 10:3 32:3 46:9,22
beyond 14:6 7:11,17,18 38:7 50:21 51:5,19 53:3,9
17:5,7 20:1 15:13,16 16:10 changing 36:1 56:4,7 58:4,13
blank 41:14,15 20:15 21:3 channeled 54:16 cleanly 13:13
38:22 26:12,14,15 Chief 3:3,9 4:1 35:17,23 40:8
55:11 Brady 53:8 36:15 41:6,7 7:21 17:20 clearer 50:22
12:25 35:19,24 45:18 46:2,8 55:12 58:15,19 12:16 13:20
46:16 48:10 choice 32:19 14:9,19 17:13
56:16 51:1 53:17 54:24 chooses 52:12 39:5,9 56:12
brief 19:24 22:3 55:21 56:3 circuit 7:4 13:8 57:12
21:2 54:3 55:6 4:11 9:18 16:7 44:6 49:14,20 32:18
briefs 20:15 17:1,4,15 52:14 close 34:25
complicate 38:20 39:2,7 coram 22:19 37:1,9,12,14
11:12 components consider 55:2 correct 38:3 40:2,3,4,5,6,12
12:20,21 31:10 consideration 46:1 47:15 40:17,23 41:4
23:5 concentrated 7:7 17:16 56:22 58:14 41:7,18 42:4
29:5 54:5 considerations costs 51:6 42:10,11,21,22
33:11,19 concern 27:17 48:19 counsel 3:14 42:25 43:5,9
38:1 27:17 28:3 considering 9:10,20 14:18 43:13,22,22,24
39:11,19 39:23,24 47:7 15:3 30:25 44:20,21 45:9
41:9,18 concerned 27:9 constitute 5:6 32:10 33:17 45:16,19,25
44:5 27:21 56:21 34:1 46:3 46:14 47:23
46:5,9 concerning 4:16 constituted 3:16 47:17 52:5 49:2,6,21
50:23 4:16 6:8 constitutional 54:16 55:12 50:11,19,22
concerns 29:16 20:1,6,10 23:7 57:13 58:15 51:10,18,21
54:11,18 52:20 27:8 32:15,17 counsel's 5:13 52:3,11,14,23
55:11 concluded 33:24 46:20 47:17,23 count 34:25 42:4 52:24,25 53:4
58:2 concluding 55:8 contemplated counter 55:1 53:5,11,15
31:22 context 7:3,7 36:19 57:17 58:9
43:5 47:13 contrary 42:6,8 5:5,19,20 6:6 4:14,19 6:25
confinement 9:6 control 16:18 6:11,22,23,25 7:4 11:22,25
conflicts 29:18 conversation 10:5,14 11:24 32:8,23 33:5
46:20 convertibles 13:23 14:7,8 44:4,5,22,22
consequence convicted 24:15 15:9 16:19 53:22 56:18
37:12 38:1,2 conviction 6:2 19:2,17 20:14 Court's 21:6
45:15 25:10 26:3,4,4 22:2,7,10,13 41:22 42:14
4:17 5:12,16 41:17 43:6,7 25:16 26:10 55:3,9
34:19 14:19 16:13 40:12 42:20 31:5,6,12,18 11:23 12:4
37:22 30:16 31:13 49:8 52:19 35:23 36:5,9 44:18 58:9
11:23 36:23 37:2 described 15:7 dissent 5:5 7:22 53:25 55:18,21
40:5 41:22 16:9 8:4 15:13,25 56:17
14:6
17:14 44:6 developed 46:4 distinction 4:19 33:25 37:6
33:16,25 50:15 46:7 4:21 32:13 39:5 44:24
48:22 devised 11:25 57:1,2 D.C 1:8,18
47:1,6 55:23 12:7 distinctions 49:14,20
53:21 defeat 24:24 dictated 3:20 17:11
defend 5:13 14:21 41:22 distinguish 4:11 E
9:4,7 16:10 difference 52:21 distinguished earlier 25:18
19:22 49:8,9 49:20 divergent 3:16 effective 14:17
47:1,17 27:12 28:17 don't 28:21 eligibility 33:8
depend 14:23 49:5,10,22 45:19 employment
26:13,14 5:23 6:8 10:6 disagree 32:20 34:13 35:8,15 engaging 53:11
45:11 13:16,16,20 disagreed 4:25 35:21 36:8,22 enhanced 13:17
16:16 25:6 37:18,20 7:23 39:10,15,22 ensuring 9:4
40:17 37:24 38:21,21 disavowed 54:2 40:8,16,25 entertaining
38:24 43:23 discretion 38:23 41:20 42:3,21 54:7
21:14 56:19,22 discussed 11:16 46:1,11 47:14 entirely 53:7
32:15 deported 17:17 37:21,23 48:13,17 50:7
36:16
30:21 53:13 43:10,15 44:22 13:22 14:22 frame 39:18
expressly 22:7 53:21,22 54:15 18:14,19,22 fully 23:13
21:10 extended 36:18 figure 39:5 53:1 21:19,22 22:14 46:16
34:6 extent 15:8,24 54:10 22:21 23:15,21 further 49:18
extra 23:22 51:6 file 24:12 25:24,25 26:1 18:5 34:4
37:19,23 F filing 22:24,24 27:23 28:2,5,8 G
34:22 fact 7:8 15:12 30:20 42:7 48:20 general 1:17 9:5
38:8 33:13 38:25 fill 41:14,15 49:16 52:6 12:16 30:1
factors 44:21 46:16,23,24 57:20,23 58:6 36:5 49:24
29:9 50:13 43:10 47:18 flooded 56:6,6 generate 37:8
48:3 factual 3:16 55:23 floodgate 57:22 generic 18:24
57:2 11:5 finally 29:14 58:5 gigantic 21:12
failing 57:11 finds 24:20 Flores-Ortega 5:20 6:1 8:16
18:3 23:16 25:4 finished 48:10 follow 49:15 39:15,20,23
fairly 12:22 firearms 38:17 following 36:5 40:14,20,23
12:20,22 46:13 4:6 7:18 10:25 follows 28:22 47:12,15 52:19
46:18 fall 18:9 44:17 11:21 21:24 footnote 22:6 53:16
falls 56:23 22:23,24 23:6 footnotes 14:8 Ginsburg's 9:18
34:12 42:8 28:14 29:13 foreclosed 22:1 give 11:18 14:3
52:11 federal 7:18 Fisher 1:15 2:3 formula 3:23 32:14 33:10
26:17 27:1 6:4,21 7:2,12 30:10 48:3 51:21
32:8 hypothetical informative judge 16:18 17:5
46:6 H 9:25 10:2,3 34:21 judged 11:2
23:14 24:5,11 58:10 instance 23:6 judgment 46:16
50:2 48:5,6 IA 25:17 integrity 47:19 47:20
half 30:17 IAC 21:10 23:3 intended 53:20 Judicial 47:8,13
25:5 handling 21:10 50:4 51:5 interest 26:25 jurisdictions
29:6 happen 12:14 55:25 56:4,7 27:2 29:18 46:24
31:15 53:14 idea 38:12 40:2 43:10 46:17 jurisprudence
49:7 happened 36:4 identical 19:21 55:23 45:5 53:10
54:13 49:17 53:13 48:18 interference 55:10
58:3 illustrates 51:14 27:1 jurist 41:23,25
14:6 hear 3:3 10:2 implied 39:18 35:22 39:17 5:8,10,20 6:1
22:4,22 heard 56:17 important 16:11 42:24 6:16 7:2,5,13
24:23,25 hearing 40:6 17:14,15 19:1 interrupting 8:2,15,16 9:1
29:10,12 held 3:15 5:5,23 21:3 38:13 26:23 9:14,17,18,24
30:16 6:6 7:9 9:11 43:4 57:11,22 intimately 43:24 10:11,15,21
46:19 22:17 23:20 inadequate 46:3 intrusion 53:21 11:7 12:9,11
54:25 25:16 28:19 46:8 intuition 39:1 12:19,25 13:14
11:19 43:1,22 44:24 26:3 invites 30:2 14:23 15:11,19
55:22 inclined 21:4 involved 17:5 15:20 16:3,14
56:22 38:18 56:3 32:23 issue 12:2 13:12 21:17,20 22:12
18:6 Holland 25:15 52:4 53:2 28:3,6,9 29:22
32:16 Honor 4:5 54:15 57:13 J 30:8,25 31:4,9
35:4 honoring 40:13 ineffectiveness JEFFREY 1:15 31:17,21 32:5
39:3,9 hopefully 28:25 49:21 50:8 2:3,9 3:7 55:14 32:6,25 33:13
56:24 hunter 38:16 51:18 54:3,10 jeopardy 14:6 33:16 34:2,9
18:25 19:4 leave 15:3 20:6 53:4 55:2 mere 15:12
25:23 29:11 45:23 56:18 57:1,10 merits 40:18
36:9,10 53:12 54:24 left 30:24 55:19 46:12,15 52:8
37:21 kinds 4:12,20 legal 7:25 M met 7:11
10:4 31:24 lest 22:3 MacPherson MICHAEL 1:17
53:8 let's 35:3 30:3 2:6 31:2
knew 38:16 level 12:17 main 11:20 micromanage
42:1 know 7:6 11:15 license 6:3 14:20 majority 16:8 15:2
43:3,8 12:15 13:11 18:9 38:19 41:1 44:24 minimize 53:20
44:4,9 18:14 29:12 58:13 majority's 45:3 minimum 20:2
46:2 35:3 38:10 lie 31:14 making 19:2 20:10 25:3
47:12,15 40:14 light 57:21 26:2,6 27:24 Minnesota
48:14,18 knows 12:15 light's 29:23 manuals 37:16 39:16
51:1 limit 53:22 Martinez 28:7 minutes 55:13
53:16 L limitations 24:7 28:18 29:1 mirrored 32:7
57:5,20 L 1:15 2:3,9 3:7 24:12 51:7,12 51:20 54:9,14 misadvice 4:15
58:7,15 55:14 limits 48:5,7 Massaro 21:10 31:18 32:3,8,9
laches 24:23 line 44:8,15 23:10 29:10,11 32:13,21 33:6
12:20 53:18 little 25:22 42:1 54:8 momentous
large 46:7 locate 49:16 matter 1:11 38:14
22:12 largely 54:19 Lockhart 45:9 22:22 32:12 Monday 54:12
50:25 law 6:20 7:8,15 logical 47:24 33:10 34:5 monkey 21:12
8:14 9:10 look 18:23 20:24 58:22 morning 3:4
16:15,22 10:15 17:19 42:15 45:4 matters 16:17
17:2 20:6 22:16 48:15 49:18 17:5 N
30:13 42:15 looked 14:24 mean 6:17,19 N 2:1,1 3:1
20:8,17 45:4 46:20 20:23 29:2 7:3 8:3 12:11 NACDL 20:15
26:22 54:20 33:23 36:1 24:25 31:11 narrower 26:13
29:22 lawyer 12:12,15 44:21 53:5 35:24 38:9 nature 21:1
33:13 13:18 14:9 looks 35:11 48:2 53:18,23 necessarily
38:3,7,9 16:11 18:1,4 48:16 meaning 31:7 15:14 18:4
41:12,20 19:3 32:16 lose 38:17,18,19 means 40:20 need 8:24 26:9
43:16 36:13,17 37:11 losing 9:4 54:22 48:9 49:10
57:5 37:22 38:12 loss 6:2 14:19 meant 6:2 12:3 needed 14:12
31:6 56:11 57:16 lots 16:22 17:4 mechanical needs 25:4 52:14
lawyers 37:17 53:4,18 44:20 negligent 30:6
37:10 noted 20:14 oral 1:11 2:2,5 panel 22:16 35:4 56:24
40:18,22 notes 20:15 3:7 31:2 panoply 39:2 plead 17:16
53:13 notice 19:23 order 29:20 parallels 42:8 32:16 57:12
55:2 22:10 25:9 ordinarily 58:8 Pardon 12:10 pleading 38:14
6:20,22 November 1:9 original 38:10 45:10,12 58:12 pleads 12:14
8:14,18 ought 16:4 21:8 part 5:19 6:7 18:6
O 27:11 30:22 9:12 10:25 pleas 33:16
10:7,10 O 2:1 3:1 37:22 56:2 12:5 28:4 47:18
11:23 obligation 5:13 57:16 43:16 please 3:10 31:5
15:8,10 33:10 36:13 outside 33:25 particular 37:7 point 10:4 30:6
obligations 50:19 50:13 34:14,15 47:16
22:5 30:1 36:17 overall 20:22 particularly 56:16
obviously 5:4,17 overlook 40:3 38:13 pointed 42:7
32:21 occurred 25:10 overturn 13:7 parties 23:23 points 55:17
37:3,8 35:4 53:22 party 25:21 57:21
40:11 odds 39:6 pending 47:8 policy 40:13
offenses 24:15 P 58:1,1 politician 38:17
44:18 office 38:18 P 3:1 people 3:13 population 9:5
48:12,24 offices 29:19 pace 30:3 24:15 25:17 position 19:7
50:10 oftentimes Padilla 3:20,22 30:18 31:23
38:22 4:15,22 5:3,5 performance possibility 37:18
52:9,12 oh 9:11 29:25 5:15,19,22 6:5 3:23 10:25 47:1,10
54:3,23 Okay 28:13 6:6,12,14,23 11:1 possible 33:17
56:4 omission 31:11 10:6 11:14 permanent 53:2 33:19
omissions 4:13 12:6 13:24 permissible possibly 38:1
4:21 31:19,24 14:4,15 15:1 39:13 postdate 4:7
once 3:15 25:21 17:9,23 18:21 Pet 24:18 22:24 55:24
51:16 57:25 19:21 20:14,23 petition 18:18 potential 14:19
34:5 18:12 45:14 31:6,18 32:4,5 25:4 26:18 practice 36:5
35:5 opines 11:15 32:21 33:24 52:16,17 49:22 50:21
37:2 opinion 19:7 36:5,10,10 Petitioner 1:4 pre 13:5
32:6 36:11 37:9 38:5 39:4 1:16 2:4,10 3:8 precedent 3:20
10:3 11:3 opponent 35:13 47:5,16,23 55:15 42:17 43:18,19
13:25 35:16 50:16 55:9 pick 8:2 35:25 44:1
15:4,6 opportunities 56:3 57:4,18 picking 55:18 precisely 48:1
18:5 58:1,2,3 picky 46:3 preclude 48:21
opportunity Padilla's 32:1,22 piece 16:11 predicate 16:16
20:22 21:25 47:21,22 Padilla-type place 46:4 17:2
33:15 51:25 55:1,2 30:18 play 5:11 58:9 preexisting 6:18
35:6 opposed 8:7 page 2:2 51:20 plea 4:17 6:9 9:2 6:19 7:15
54:3 pages 27:10 14:11 16:12 preferred 50:6,7
37:15 opposite 7:9 Paine 38:9 30:19 33:18,20 prejudice 8:24
procedure 21:7 put 16:6 17:12 raising 22:1 regard 15:16,24
21:24 proceed 24:21 rationale 32:2,2 57:3,15,15
46:14 proceeding Q 32:22 rejecting 57:18
22:19,20 27:1 qualify 8:18 reached 41:24 relation 23:10
49:23 50:6,7 18:12,25 19:17 56:2 relief 3:13 10:11
9:15 10:3 professional 28:25 33:23 47:21,22 50:20 48:20 56:25
11:3,4,9 3:24 6:2,13 36:12 37:14 54:6 57:25 rely 6:18 8:4
14:24 11:3,4,10 42:16 43:17 reasonable 18:17 20:21
18:1,15 13:25 14:20,24 45:22 46:12 13:18 24:21 relying 42:14
19:3,8 15:4,6 18:9,15 50:17 52:10 41:23,25 57:10 remaining 55:13
18:23 19:8,12 55:4,7 56:3,17 reasonableness remand 29:16
33:14 19:16,25 20:22 questions 41:19 11:2 49:13,15
39:6 33:1,3,15,21 53:4,8 reasoning 54:24 remanded 49:20
36:4,6,20 37:2 quote 28:16 rebuttal 2:8 5:25 6:14 7:17
8:3,4,8 pronouncement R recall 38:3 25:13,15 29:14
10:16,17 R 1:17 2:6 3:1 recognize 10:8 30:16
35:15 protecting 46:18 52:4 37:17 24:25
48:23 provide 55:5 raised 21:24 reconsider 16:4 reply 22:3,6
publications 53:9 54:25 47:6 9:13
43:13 published 44:6 49:12 52:6 46:15 require 15:6
55:23 push 15:9 53:7 refrain 54:7 18:1 19:3,19
47:9 50:24 51:5,11 51:19,22 52:9 section 36:11 7:1 8:21 10:8
16:6 18:4 54:11,16,18,19 56:4,17,21 44:12 18:14 21:11
14:18 56:8,10,11,12 ruled 13:11 seeking 56:11 simultaneously
reviews 28:10 34:24 39:19 21:11 24:1,8,9 28:12
22:13 30:20 50:13,23 sentence 6:7 6:9 11:11 14:5
44:10 46:2,6 rulings 13:4,6 43:24 45:16 36:18 44:6
31:10,16 rightly 20:5 Ryan 28:18 38:23 skewing 32:18
rights 39:8 51:20 54:9 September skill 9:12
2:7 31:3 49:18 S serious 21:5 slightly 15:25
4:1,23 5:2 sacrificed 27:2 seriously 15:5 society 46:17
18:20 30:25 salt 38:12 serve 26:25 Solicitor 1:17
5:7 7:25 8:18 27:25 39:5 settings 3:16 58:9
55:8 11:23,24 12:1 41:1 48:22 severe 24:5,8 sort 17:25 51:1
28:1 15:8,10,13,14 Scalia 6:16 8:2 shape 48:24,25 Sotomayor
34:7 15:17,24 21:4 10:15,21 15:11 share 38:25 27:20,24 28:3
22:5 23:11,12 15:19,20 16:3 short 24:12 28:6,9 31:9,17
31:24 30:12,14 31:7 35:13 showing 8:24 34:2,9,10,13
28:17 40:17 41:13,21 se 49:3 44:14 sought 3:13
30:22 43:5,14 44:18 second 3:25 4:10 significantly 39:13
41:8 45:3,24 47:7 6:7 14:2 21:3 45:2 sources 32:23
46:10,17 47:17,20 48:12 25:19 32:13 similar 42:3 33:1,1,2,14
48:24 49:9 43:16 45:22 48:16 38:4
50:10,16 51:10 56:16 simply 3:22 6:13 sovereign 38:23
5:11,21,25 supported 55:7 53:12,14,17,19 26:14 29:2
9:20 10:9,11 40:17 40:9 40:16 41:5
27:8,22 16:17 17:12,13 21:22 24:9,17 tell 12:13 34:2 48:17 50:8
33:15 18:12,21 19:3 24:18 25:7 52:23 51:13 52:1
42:2 19:17 20:24 32:25 57:24 temporary 58:5 53:11 54:6,22
21:2 25:21 surely 27:2 ten 4:2 7:4,9 55:8 56:2,17
27:9 27:19 34:14,18 surprise 4:1,24 terms 4:8 thinking 57:12
34:11 34:25 35:1,11 48:9 terrible 12:13 thought 8:4
26:4 50:16,18 55:10 43:5 54:15 Thaler 54:13 13:4,5 33:6,7
29:1,2 56:19,20,21 56:15 Thank 30:25 threshold 11:8
39:11,14 57:3,14 58:11 55:12,16 58:15 14:4
58:12 T 58:18 throw 21:12
Strickland's T 2:1,1 that's 11:14 57:6
42:15 3:22 table 33:22 theory 21:16 throwback
Strickland's take 6:12 14:25 23:8 27:22
48:6 11:16 16:12 52:1 thing 4:10 25:19 Thursday 1:9
stripped 57:9 taken 47:19 29:14 30:15 tied 37:24 43:24
46:17 talked 31:22 49:12 56:25 10:8,12 11:2
26:5 29:2,6 subject 34:6 talking 10:24 things 4:5 12:13 25:10,13 26:10
40:9 44:23 45:12 20:13,17,18 12:14 21:13 28:25 29:13
43:13 submitted 58:20 21:1 25:13 28:14,24 30:24 34:10
49:19 58:22 Teague 3:12 41:5 42:4 35:4,9,12,17
55:6,7 substantive 6:22 21:8,11 think 4:4 6:4,4 36:3,20 37:4
39:17 sufficient 8:11 26:5,11,18,24 8:21 9:21 10:2 52:7 55:10
51:6,12 45:19 27:22 28:15,16 10:10,19 11:19 timeliness 23:1
33:18 39:16,24 40:2 14:2,22,23 timely 22:25
53:5 41:1,6,9,21 16:5,8,14 17:7 times 44:14
58:11 understand 9:24
8:22 9:14 18:9 4
United 1:1,6,12
31:9 unpublished 21:13 22:23 X 6
40:15 44:7 23:13,15 26:13 x 1:2,7 697 27:10
53:25 unreasonable 26:14 30:13
44:11,12 useful 44:1 56:13 50:14 51:16,23
54:9 ways 15:23 1
28:18,20 West 30:11 10:01 1:13 3:2
31:6,7 11 47:7,20
39:16 11-820 1:4 3:4
6:7 11:18 We'll 3:3
43:13 11:02 58:21
13:1 we're 10:24 15:1
49:19 14.3.2 33:15
17:7 15:2,3,9 20:13
54:9,13 1984 35:1
25:13 23:18,24 27:7
32:6 27:9,24 29:6
41:18 42:10,11 50:1
1999 19:24
55:13,17 we've 58:11
3:11
47:3 40:21 57:18 2001 14:13
56:19 widespread 2254 41:10
win 36:7 55:6
wish 27:2 41:13
