IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CALVIN SMITH AND JOHN RAYNOR, :
Petitioners : No. 11-8976
v. :
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 6, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
A.J. KRAMER, ESQ., Federal Public Defender, Washington,
D.C.; on behalf of Petitioners.
SARAH E. HARRINGTON, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
A.J. KRAMER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SARAH E. HARRINGTON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
A.J. KRAMER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 59
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 11-8976, Smith v. United
States.
Mr. Kramer.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF A.J. KRAMER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. KRAMER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
From the first Congress in 1790, Congress
has made the decision that all Federal statutes which
are, of course, creatures created by Congress in
statutes, should be subject to a statute of limitations;
in this particular case, five years. When it comes to
conspiracy cases, as this Court said in Hyde, the
statute of limitations is treated a little differently
because conspiracy statutes are -- conspiracy crimes are
continuing offenses.
So the Court said the way we determine --
one way to determine whether a particular defendant's
involvement in a conspiracy has ended -- in other words,
his membership has ended -- is by the doctrine of
withdrawal.
It's the statute of limitations that is the
defense in the case. It's the doctrine of withdrawal
that triggers -- that is the triggering event for the
statute of limitations, which sets the date for when the
statute of limitations starts to run. Withdrawal, in
and of itself, is not a defense. It's the statute of
limitations that's the defense.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but that -- is that an
element of the crime?
MR. KRAMER: No. This Court has called it a
defense in the Cook case, in the Oppenheimer case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It has to be raised by the
defendant, right?
MR. KRAMER: It does have to be raised
initially -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which means it's not an
element, so it doesn't have to be charged in the
indictment. Now, how can something that goes to the
existence or non-existence of an affirmative defense be
an element?
MR. KRAMER: Well, I don't -- it is -- it is
not an element, I agree with that; but it is -- I would
say that it's engrafted onto every Federal criminal
statute by statute. This is not the common law, but by
Congress' decision. I would also say that even though
it's not an element of defense -- of the offense, in
Winship, this Court referred to the fact that the
government must prove every fact necessary to prove a
crime beyond a reasonable doubt. It's a fact
necessary --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But -- but you could
prove the crime without a reasonable -- beyond a
reasonable doubt, if you never raised the statute of
limitations. And statutes of limitations exist for
civil claims, as well as criminal claims.
And in -- on the civil side, the statute of
limitations is an affirmative defense. And it's up to
the plaintiff to plead and prove -- both plead and prove
it, both the burden of production and persuasion. Why
should it be different on the criminal side?
MR. KRAMER: I think several reasons. First
of all, obviously, the burden of proof is different in
criminal cases as the court said in Mullaney v. Wilbur.
It has been suggested that, because of the difficulties
in negating an argument that a homicide was committed in
the heat of passion, the burden of proof should rest on
the defendant.
And they said the same may be said of the
requirement of proof beyond a reasonable doubt of many
controverted facts, but this is the traditional burden
which our criminal justice system applies. I also think
that the Court has distinguished on some grounds and is
the civil statute of limitations from the criminal
statute.
In fact, in the number of cases, this Court
has talked about the criminal statute of limitations.
It has never referred to it as an affirmative defense.
It has said it's a defense, but it has never said that
the defendant is required to prove it.
In fact, the Quick case said it's part of
the merits of the case; although it doesn't have to be
pleaded in the indictment, and the -- that it has to
be -- the government has to present evidence of it and
proof of it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- I think you --
you recognized that -- that the defendant has the burden
of production, not the government, the burden -- burden
of coming forward with this defense and producing some
evidence of the withdrawal.
MR. KRAMER: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, we do
accept that there is a burden of production, as with
several other things that are not affirmative defenses,
like entrapment or alibi, also have a burden of
production before the government has to prove the
elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. So
it's not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. -- I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. Finish your answer.
MR. KRAMER: It's -- it's not dissimilar to
those in that respect, and it does go to negate an
element of the crime. In -- in the conspiracy statute,
the membership in the conspiracy is an element of the
crime. Withdrawal negates that element of the crime.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not -- only for the later
period. It doesn't negate that this person was once a
member of the conspiracy. The government has the burden
to show membership, and it did. So it's not -- it
doesn't reach back to negate that there was membership
at some time. It just says, after withdrawal, we no
longer prosecute.
MR. KRAMER: That's true. What it does is
extinguish liability for that offense past that time if
the statute of limitations has -- if withdrawal occurs
before the statute of limitations, someone can no
longer, as the statute says, "be prosecuted, tried, or
punished."
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't that like an
amnesty? Isn't that how you described it in your brief?
MR. KRAMER: There are some cases that call
it an amnesty. Some cases call it an extinguishment of
liability.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the difference
between the two, in your mind, that makes it an element
of the crime or a negation of some element of the crime?
MR. KRAMER: In a conspiracy, there's the
conspiracy that -- the government has to prove,
obviously, the conspiracy itself, which is an agreement
between -- it can be anyone. And then they have to
prove the defendant's membership in that conspiracy.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you're a member, you
are liable for all the foreseeable acts of your
co-conspirators, whether or not you knew they were going
to happen, so long as they were foreseeable?
MR. KRAMER: Yes. Under Pinkerton, yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And you can be liable
for as long as you stay, until you prove you withdrew?
MR. KRAMER: Until --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that extinguishes
your liability for the continuing conspiracy?
MR. KRAMER: I would say until you produce
evidence that you withdrew, yes. And then the
government has to prove that you were still a member of
the conspiracy within the statutory limitations period.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why?
MR. KRAMER: This Court has never said in
Hyde --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The why is, once you've
joined, you're trying to extinguish liability. Why
would the government have to prove that you're entitled
to amnesty or not entitled to amnesty?
MR. KRAMER: It -- I think, Justice
Sotomayor, that it's really no different than if the
government has to prove you guilty of a crime in the
first place. They have to prove that you committed the
offense. The statute of limitations, which is, as I
said, engrafted on every Federal criminal statute --
almost every statute --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, your argument
basically reduces to the fact that, when it comes to the
statute of limitations, you treat the conspirators as
individuals, rather than as members of the conspiracy.
MR. KRAMER: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, well, that's
not true with respect to other aspects of the
conspiracy. If members of the conspiracy commit a
murder, and it was anticipated and all that, the person
that has nothing to do with that, other than being a
part of the conspiracy, is liable -- criminally liable
for that as well. Why is there a special rule for
statutes of limitations? Well, why is he treated as an
individual, rather than a member of the conspiracy in
that respect?
MR. KRAMER: Well, he would be treated
for -- for the withdrawal purpose. If he withdrew, he
would also not be liable under Pinkerton. There is a
membership element component of Pinkerton as well, for
Pinkerton liability.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, my point is
that, once you prove the conspiracy, a member who
doesn't -- that doesn't actually participate in the
activities of the conspiracy, is still responsible for
them. So it makes sense to say you can prove the
statute of limitations with respect to the conspiracy,
not with respect to each individual.
MR. KRAMER: Well, I think, actually, it's
just the opposite. If -- under -- under Grunewald, the
government -- if the defense -- if the claim of
termination is raised, the government has to prove that
the conspiracy continued into the limitations period and
that there was an overt act -- that was an overt act.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But what the Chief Justice
indicates, it seems to me, is that if we accept your
view, then there is going to be a different statute of
limitations for each member of the conspiracy. And so
you have four or five different statute of limitations.
I find that -- I find that puzzling.
MR. KRAMER: Well, actually, in this case,
there was different statutes of -- I believe there were
three different statute of limitations that the district
court instructed the jury about because there were
superseding indictments and people were indicted at
different times.
So there were already, in this case,
different statute of limitations. But if one of the
reasons for withdrawal is to encourage people to get out
of the agreement, Justice Kennedy, then -- and try to --
try to thwart the agreement, then people may have -- may
come in and leave at different times during a
conspiracy.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is -- is there any --
I'm trying to find an analogous instance without the
statute of limitations. And what occurred to me, just
as an example, that you might have in your practice
found a different one, the Thomas Crown Affair. Say
that he robs the bank or the art museum, but he has an
intent to return it, and he produces evidence that he
had an intent to return.
Now, in such a case, once he produces the
evidence, does the government have to prove beyond a
reasonable doubt that he didn't have an intent to
return? Or does he -- is there any instance in which
the burden of persuasion shifts? Do you see what I'm
driving at?
MR. KRAMER: I do, and I think that there --
that an argument can be made if the intent -- if one of
the elements of that offense is to deprive the owner
permanently of the property and he did not have that
intent, the government would have to prove what it would
have to prove originally, which is that he intended to
deprive the -- the owner --
JUSTICE BREYER: So you have never found a
case -- I will ask the government this -- in the
substantive criminal law, no matter what, who is -- even
if the defendant is the only one ever likely to know
anything about it, you've never found a case where, once
the burden's produced, the -- the burden of persuasion
remains on the defendant?
MR. KRAMER: That the burden of persuasion
remains on the defendant?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, because you agree the
defendant has the burden of production here.
MR. KRAMER: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And so I was trying to
think of some instance -- as I said, I would be
repeating myself -- I'm looking for any instance in
which, leaving the statute of limitations out of it, the
burden of persuasion shifts to the defendant. So I'm
saying, did you ever find one? The Thomas Crown Affair
or some other instance, and your answer is, no, you
never have heard of it.
MR. KRAMER: Well, I guess --
JUSTICE BREYER: Have you heard of it? So
what?
MR. KRAMER: Self defense and duress, as the
Court said in Dixon, dealing with duress, because it did
not negate the elements of the offense, it was an
affirmative defense that excused --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, this is not -- this
does not negate the elements of the defense -- this does
not negate the elements of the crime.
MR. KRAMER: If it doesn't negate the
elements of the crime, I would say then this Court has
classified it as an affirmative defense.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, then if
that's so, if it's an affirmative defense and if
sometimes where it doesn't negate the elements of the
crime the burden of persuasion remains on the defendant,
then why shouldn't it here? Because he's the one most
likely to know.
MR. KRAMER: Well, I don't think, first of
all --
JUSTICE BREYER: And how do you prove it?
MR. KRAMER: -- that the government has
shown -- well, first of all, they -- they have to prove
nothing more than what they would have to prove
originally, that the defendant was joined -- knowingly
and willfully joined the conspiracy.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- you would have
the government prove that twice. They prove his
membership in the conspiracy. And then you say, once he
alleges that he withdrew, they have to prove it again.
MR. KRAMER: No, they would not have to
prove that twice. They could just rest on what they had
done originally. The -- the burden of production on the
withdrawal, the government could just say to the jury
that that's nonsense, there is no reasonable doubt here.
We've proved that he was a member. There is a
permissive inference that he's still a member within the
limitations period. They would not have to prove it
twice. They could rest on what they had done
originally.
It's very simple for them, however, to rebut
this evidence.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What would you -- what
would you have to produce to get over your threshold of
satisfying the burden of production?
MR. KRAMER: Well, it's -- it's actually, I
think, a quite high burden of production. You would --
the defendant -- in most cases, I would think the
defendant himself would have to testify, which, of
course, subjects him to extensive cross-examination on
everything.
He can -- of course, cannot call his
co-conspirators as witnesses. He might be able to
present third-party evidence which, again, would be
subject to cross-examination. But he has to show that
he took some -- produce evidence that he took some
affirmative act to disavow --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's why
it's very difficult to put the burden on the government,
because the people -- he says, well, I told so-and-so
I'm out of this business, I'm not going to do it
anymore. And so the government, if they had the burden
of proof, would say, well, I don't think that's true, I
want to call the person you -- you talked to.
And the person says, well, I'm not going to
testify because I take my rights under the Fifth
Amendment. There is no way the government -- in many
cases, there would be no way the government can carry
this burden of proof.
MR. KRAMER: No, I disagree with that. I
think, in every case, it would actually be fairly simple
for them. If the defendant can't call that person to
support his defense, the government could just say,
well, you didn't hear any testimony from that person
supporting the defense. That's enough right there to
meet our burden.
The government, as in this case, had
extensive cooperating witnesses, had wiretaps, had
documentary evidence --
JUSTICE BREYER: They often do. I just want
to go back, get the complete -- insofar as you can help
with this.
All right. Let's take duress or
self-defense. The government shows all the elements of
murder. Then the defendant comes in and says, I have
evidence here that it was under duress or evidence that
it was self-defense. Then to prevail, what's the
standard of persuasion? How does it work?
Is it then that -- is it that the defendant
must show more likely than not? Or is it the defend --
that I was defending myself? Or is it that the
government -- how does it work? What's the rule?
MR. KRAMER: The defendant -- as I
understand it, the defendant has to -- and, of course,
it could vary by state.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, of course. Of course.
MR. KRAMER: The states may put different
burdens. In the Federal system --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, yes.
MR. KRAMER: -- the defendant has the
burden, by a preponderance, to prove the duress defense
or the self-defense defense.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, that's --
well, then their point is, well, this is awfully
similar.
MR. KRAMER: It's not, though, in the sense
that the only thing that connects an individual
defendant to a conspiracy is that defendant's
membership, knowing and willful participation in the
conspiracy.
JUSTICE BREYER: The fact that there is a
statute of limitations makes your case weaker, not
stronger, because -- because the statute of limitations
is less directly connected to the elements of the -- the
offense than is self-defense or duress.
MR. KRAMER: I actually think it makes it
stronger, in the sense that Congress has made this
choice to require that every crime be proved to have
been committed within the statute of limitations.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you say that you --
you have to prove that the defendant was knowing and
willfully a member of the conspiracy, right?
MR. KRAMER: That was the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what you said?
MR. KRAMER: That was the jury instructions
in this case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, and you agree that
that's the rule of law, right?
MR. KRAMER: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't duress eliminate
willfully?
MR. KRAMER: The Court said, in Dixon -- it
might, to my thinking, but the Court said, in Dixon,
that it did not negate any of the elements of the
offense, that the -- that she had to do the acts
knowingly and willfully in Dixon and that it did not
negate those elements.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So why is that different
from this? If that's not an element, for Pete's sake,
even though the definition of the crime is knowingly and
willfully, and yet, nonetheless, that's -- that's an
affirmative defense, why -- why is that any different
here?
MR. KRAMER: Because the only way a
defendant can prove -- the way a defendant shows that he
withdrew is to produce evidence of withdrawal. That is
inconsistent with the fact that he is a member --
necessarily negates the element of membership in the
conspiracy. If he withdrew, he cannot, at the same
time, be a member of the conspiracy.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I'm having trouble
understanding how your argument would work. Let's say
that the -- the defense calls a witness other than the
defendant to testify to a conversation in which the
defendant allegedly withdrew from the conspiracy and, by
doing that, satisfies its burden of production.
Now, you say the government has the burden
to prove beyond a reasonable doubt, not only that this
conversation didn't occur, but also, that the defendant
never withdrew at any other time during the limitations
period. Isn't that where your argument would lead?
MR. KRAMER: No, I don't think they have to
disprove the conversation. All they have to prove is
what they had to prove originally, which is that the
defendant was a member of the conspiracy within the
limitations period, by any kind of evidence.
JUSTICE ALITO: But how can they prove that
he did not withdraw at any other time during this
conspiracy?
MR. KRAMER: Well, as in this case, they had
a number --
JUSTICE ALITO: During the statute of
limitations.
MR. KRAMER: As in this case, they had a
number of cooperating witnesses who testified about
Mr. Smith's actions. They could ask them, did the
conspiracy -- did Mr. Smith continue to participate, was
he involved, did he withdraw, any --
JUSTICE ALITO: Aren't you transforming
the -- the nature of withdrawal? You are seeming to
argue that the government has to prove, beyond a
reasonable doubt, active participation in the conspiracy
during the statute of limitations period, rather than
the -- the affirmative withdrawal from the conspiracy.
MR. KRAMER: No. I don't mean to imply
active participation, if that means an overt act. It
can just be -- the government could simply rest upon the
inference from Hyde that the defendant had been a member
outside the limitations period and their continued
participation is inferred. That's overcome when the
defendant produces evidence of withdrawal. So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What -- what evidence of
withdrawal did you produce in this case?
MR. KRAMER: In this particular case, it was
the -- well, it was the jury that actually called the
issue to the attention of everybody in the first place,
by sending out a note saying that, if we -- the
conspiracy continued, but we think a defendant left,
must we find him not guilty?
There was a number of pieces of evidence,
primarily that he was incarcerated for over six years
before the indictment --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't prove that he
withdrew.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- you agree --
you agree that that would not have necessarily meant
withdrawal?
MR. KRAMER: No, there are some circuit
cases that say that alone may be enough, but there was
more in this case. In this particular case, one witness
said he recalled -- he did not recall any contacts
between Kevin Gray, who was the ringleader, after the
arrest.
Another said that Mr. Smith was mad at
Mr. Gray for not sending any money. They weren't
communicating with him. Another witness -- there was
testimony from another witness that Mr. Smith refused to
comply with an order that Mr. Gray sent to him.
So there were --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which -- which of those are
affirmative actions? I mean, the law is that he has to
take an affirmative action withdrawing from the
conspiracy. I don't think being in jail is -- is an
affirmative action. I don't think being mad at the
ringleader is an affirmative action. I don't think any
of the things you've said amount to an affirmative
withdrawal from the conspiracy.
MR. KRAMER: Whatever that may be, it's not
an issue in this case, in the sense that the government
is actually the one who requested that the district
court give the withdrawal instruction after the jury's
note.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe not, but it -- it may
mean that we are wasting our time.
MR. KRAMER: I think that whether this
qualified as affirmative acts or not is, in a sense,
irrelevant to the question before the Court because,
after the jury's note came out, the government itself
requested the withdrawal instruction. And the
government not only requested the withdrawal
instructions, but said, we have no objection to placing
the burden on us beyond a reasonable doubt, if that's
what the defense wants.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Kramer --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm -- I'm having
trouble understanding how this works. You said a while
ago that the government has -- doesn't have to do
anything? In other words, he puts on -- he says, I
withdrew. And I told this -- the head of the conspiracy
that I wanted no more part of it. And the head of the
conspiracy says, well, I'm not going to testify.
And then the government doesn't have to do
anything?
MR. KRAMER: The government can just say --
they can rest on the fact that the proof outside the
membership period and rest on the inference from Hyde
that his membership continued.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how is that --
how is that carrying the burden that you say is on it to
prove the absence of withdrawal beyond a reasonable
doubt? It seems to me that, if the government just sits
there and doesn't say anything, they'll never be able to
carry their burden.
MR. KRAMER: I think -- I think they can by
just saying to -- well, I don't think they have a burden
to prove the absence of withdrawal. They have the
burden to prove membership within the limitations
period.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but they've
already done that. That's --
MR. KRAMER: Within the limitations -- his
membership within the period. So they can just say to
the jury, look, this evidence of withdrawal is nonsense,
you've heard the testimony, we've cross-examined him, it
makes no sense.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, no. My
hypothetical is, because we are talking about the
criminal conspiracy, and the idea is did he tell those
people he was out, they're probably going to say, I'm
not going to testify.
And so -- and you say, well, the government
still doesn't have to do anything. It seems to me that
you can't say that they've carried their burden of proof
beyond a reasonable doubt, if they have nothing to say
about an issue as to which you say they have the burden
of proof.
MR. KRAMER: Well, I think it's up to the
jury whether to believe that evidence or not. And I
don't think the government has to prove --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Believe what
evidence?
MR. KRAMER: The -- the evidence that was
produced by the defendant that he actually told somebody
he --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But there can't be
any evidence because nobody is willing to testify
under -- because they invoked their Fifth Amendment
rights.
MR. KRAMER: Oh, I'm sorry. I thought the
defendant had testified to that effect, that he -- if
there is no evidence, there is nothing for the jury.
There is no -- if there's -- the defendant has not
produced any evidence of withdrawal, then there
is nothing --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Well, if the
defendant does testify, and he says, I told the
ringleader I want out, is an attack on his credibility
sufficient to prove the absence of withdrawal beyond a
reasonable doubt?
MR. KRAMER: Absolutely. And it happens all
the time in trials, that the government relies upon the
fact of a witness' unreliability and what happened on
cross to say that they proved their case beyond a
reasonable doubt. They don't have to prove anything
they didn't have to prove originally in this case. In
fact, it may be easier because it's within the
limitations period.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They didn't have to prove
within the limitations period. They didn't have to
prove that. You acknowledged that that the -- look,
what's at issue here is not a defense of withdrawal.
It's the defense of the statute of limitations, right?
MR. KRAMER: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You acknowledge that that
is an affirmative defense. And you are arguing that
what establishes that affirmative defense in this case,
namely, withdrawal, is an element. How -- how can
something that is -- that does nothing more than
establish an affirmative defense be an element?
MR. KRAMER: I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I can't understand that.
Can you give me any other example in the criminal law
where -- where --
MR. KRAMER: I mean, an alibi -- alibi or
entrapment negate elements are not affirmative defenses.
If an alibi -- the defense is what -- and what could
happen in any case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's not an
affirmative -- I want an example of something which is
an affirmative defense and where the proof of that
affirmative defense becomes an element.
MR. KRAMER: I may have given the wrong
impression. I don't classify the statute of limitations
as -- as an affirmative defense, nor has this Court ever
done it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why doesn't it have to be
contained in the indictment, if it's an element?
MR. KRAMER: It's not -- well, it's not an
element. But in Grunewald, this Court said --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is it up to the
defendant to raise it, if it's an element?
MR. KRAMER: I think, in Ledbetter, this
Court said that, although there doesn't have to be a
date in the indictment, the government -- it's
sufficient if the government proves a date before the
indictment within the limitations period, this Court
specifically referred to in Ledbetter, which is at page
21 of our brief.
So I don't -- I may have given a wrong
impression. This is not an affirmative defense. An
affirmative defense does not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. That at least is
logical. I'm not sure it's right. But it's logical.
MR. KRAMER: Well, I'm halfway there.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I actually thought your
stronger argument in your brief was in trying to explain
why it negated an element. I think what you said in
your brief -- and you haven't made it here yet, as
clearly -- was that, if he wasn't willingly
participating during the statute of limitations, then he
hadn't committed the actual crime.
MR. KRAMER: That is -- that is the heart of
our argument, that it negates the element of membership
within the statutory period, which is what the
government has to prove. And I'm sorry if I did not
make that clear.
But the element that's at issue, that the
statute of limitations negates, is membership within the
statute -- membership in the conspiracy, knowing and
willful participation --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the government doesn't
have to prove within the statutory period. It's up to
the defendant to raise that defense, and if he doesn't
raise it, it's waived.
MR. KRAMER: Well, I think it is up to the
government to prove it. It may be that if -- this Court
has never said a defendant waives it by not raising it.
But I -- I think the government has to prove it in every
case. It may be waived.
Some circuits have said it's waived. This
Court has not said so.
I would like to reserve the remainder of my
time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Harrington?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SARAH E. HARRINGTON
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. HARRINGTON: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
The Due Process Clause does not require the
government to disprove withdrawal outside the
limitations period because lack of withdrawal is not an
element of the crime of conspiracy. This Court has been
clear that the Winship burden attaches only to things
that are elements in the constitutional sense. And when
something is an element in the constitutional sense,
then at least four consequences follow.
As the Court has suggested, first, the
government has to allege in the indictment in every
case. Second, the -- the government has to prove it in
every case. Third, the jury has to be instructed on it
in every case. And fourth, a defendant can't waive the
requirement that it be proved in his case by failing to
raise it.
But none of those things apply as to a
statute of limitations --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Harrington --
JUSTICE BREYER: This is true, but his
point -- basic point -- and he has responded to the
points I've made, is that, of course, if there's a
five-year statute on robbery, it doesn't help the
government that he create -- he committed a robbery
before.
MS. HARRINGTON: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So he's saying
what you charged in the indictment is that he was a
member of a conspiracy that existed between 1995 and
2005. Now, that's the crime that concerns us, roughly.
And he is saying, to prove your case, you have to show,
as an element, that he was a member.
Now, you did present some evidence that he
was a member. And he wants to present some evidence,
and has, that he wasn't a member. And he wasn't a
member if he withdrew. And therefore, once he presents
enough to get -- make that an issue, you have to prove
beyond a reasonable doubt that he was a member. So you
have to show he didn't withdraw.
Now, this has nothing to do with the statute
of limitations. By coincidence, it does. But a statute
of limitations issue would be that you all agree that he
withdrew, but the question is did it happen in 1993 or
1997? That's a statute of limitations issue, but this
isn't.
This is a question of whether he was a
member of the conspiracy during the time period that you
charged in the indictment. That's his point. So what
is the response?
MS. HARRINGTON: So I guess I have two
responses. The first is that it is a statute of
limitations question, in the sense that the government
proved -- and there is no dispute about this -- that the
conspiracy that was charged did exist within the
limitations period. And so the question is just did
this particular member of the conspiracy --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, in other words, you
can charge me or anybody in the audience or anybody here
with what? Not charging them? You are saying there was
a conspiracy? Doesn't he have to be shown to be a
member of the conspiracy in order for you to get a
conviction?
MS. HARRINGTON: He does, and there's no --
JUSTICE BREYER: And that's an element of
the crime?
MS. HARRINGTON: And an -- but when
Petitioner talks about the membership or participation
element, what he is really talking about is the
agreement element. The government has to prove that
each defendant who is charged with a conspiracy
intentionally agreed to join the conspiracy. And there
is no dispute that the government proved that with
respect to Petitioner in this case --
JUSTICE BREYER: There is no more relevance,
is there, to the fact that there happened to be a
pre-1995 conspiracy, except as a matter of proof -- I
shouldn't say relevance -- that he happened to rob a
bank before 1995? I mean, in each instance, there was
criminal activity before 1995.
Now, you can use that in order to prove that
he was a member during '95 to 2000. That, I see. But
he, similar, can use the matter of withdrawal to prove
he wasn't a member during 1995 to 2000. And, therefore,
it goes to show whether you or the government have
proved an element of the offense, namely, that he was a
member between '95 and 2000.
MS. HARRINGTON: But, again, the element is
agreement, right? So we prove that he agreed to join
the conspiracy, and we proved that each defendant agreed
to join the conspiracy. We don't have to prove that
that agreement happened in the limitations period, as
long as we prove that the conspiracy continues to --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So how do we tell that,
Ms. Harrington? Because it seems to me that the crux of
the difference between you and your friend is that you
say the element is membership in the conspiracy at some
point, it doesn't matter whether it's in the limitations
period. And he says the element is membership in a
conspiracy in the limitations period. And if he's
right, a set of things follow from that; and if you are
right, another set of things follow.
So how do we determine that the -- you know,
that the statute of limitations -- that the timing
question is not baked into the elements question, that
it's just membership sometime, as opposed to membership
at a particular time?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, we know it's not an
element for the reasons I explained because it doesn't
have to be charged in the indictment, it doesn't have to
be proved in every case, the defendant can waive it. So
it's not an element in the constitutional sense, for all
of those reasons.
We can also tell that, in the specific
conspiracy context, it's not an element because this
Court's decision in Hyde from 1912. In that case, the
defendant, Mr. Schneider, who had raised the statute of
limitations defense, had not done anything to
participate in the charged conspiracy within what was
then a three-year statute of limitations period.
The jury was charged, he didn't do anything,
the court said he didn't do anything. The court said,
it's fine, he's still a member of the conspiracy because
he has not taken an affirmative act to withdraw from the
conspiracy.
So that's how we know that some sort of
active membership isn't an element of the crime, as long
as the government has proved, beyond a reasonable doubt,
that -- that the defendant joined the crime at some
point and that the -- joined the conspiracy -- excuse
me -- at some point, and that the conspiracy continued
to exist in the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did the government charge
in the indictment that the conspiracy existed during
this five-year period?
MS. HARRINGTON: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: During the particular
five-year period.
MS. HARRINGTON: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did it have to do that?
MS. HARRINGTON: It did not have to do that,
but there's no dispute --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if it did not have to,
it would have been up to the defendant to say, the
statute of limitations runs on my participation, right?
MS. HARRINGTON: Right. And, to be clear,
I'm not sure it specifically used that phrase, but it
charged -- it charged overt acts that were part of the
conspiracy that happened within the five-year period.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it -- it didn't say the
conspiracy only existed within that five-year period?
MS. HARRINGTON: I'm not sure what -- I'm
not sure exactly the language that is used in the
indictment, but it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, let's assume it did.
Would -- would -- let's say, in a burglary indictment --
let's say the burglary occurred seven years ago, and
there is a five-year statute of limitations. If the
indictment just -- just accuses the individual of
conducting a burglary seven years ago, is that -- is
that indictment invalid?
MS. HARRINGTON: This Court -- this Court
has held since the Cook case that the -- the government
does not have to charge that -- the satisfaction of the
limitations period in the indictment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it's -- it's up to the
defendant to say, no --
MS. HARRINGTON: It's up to the defendant --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- seven years is too long.
MS. HARRINGTON: -- to raise it, right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So I guess the issue here
is whether the government's statement that the
conspiracy existed within this five-year period causes
that to be an element of the crime?
MS. HARRINGTON: But I think this Court has
been clear, that it doesn't cause it to be an element of
the crime. I mean, back as far as the Cook case, the
Court said that it doesn't have to be -- timing is not
an element -- is not of the essence of these crimes.
And so it doesn't have to be charged in the indictment.
And, again --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But what if it is?
MS. HARRINGTON: But what if it is? Of --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If it is charged in
the indictment?
MS. HARRINGTON: Then that doesn't -- that
doesn't cause it to be an element of the crime. I
think, again, there is no dispute in this case that the
government proved that the conspiracy did exist within
the limitations period. I don't think Petitioner is
contesting that. What he is saying is that he wasn't a
part of that conspiracy within the limitations period.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What he's saying is
that it wasn't proven to be within the limitations
period with respect to him.
MS. HARRINGTON: That's true, but
once the -- it's true that that's his argument. But
once the government has proved that he willingly joined
the conspiracy, which it did in this case, then the law
presumes that every person who has willingly joined the
conspiracy remains a member of an ongoing conspiracy,
unless or until he takes some affirmative action to
withdraw from the conspiracy.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, I am looking at it
as a puzzle here because I think you could look at it
either way. I mean, if a person commits a burglary and
the indictment charges that, and he says, yes, I did, I
did, there is no doubt about all the elements being
satisfied, but it happened outside the limitation
period. That's in the statute of limitations area.
But where you charge a conspiracy taking
place within a period of time, as I would think you
usually would -- I would think the -- those words on the
paper almost always have a date in them -- then you
could look at it as a question of membership in that
conspiracy, the one that's charged, in which case, it's
a question of the elements.
And then, if you're in doubt as to whether
or not the time that he withdrew was inside or outside
the period, that becomes a limitations question.
MS. HARRINGTON: But it can't --
JUSTICE BREYER: And then I'm -- I'm sort
of -- I'm torn here. I actually can see it either way.
MS. HARRINGTON: I mean, I think it can't be
an element of the crime because, if the defendant
doesn't raise it, the government doesn't have to prove
it or disprove it, depending on how you look at it.
So --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, that isn't true. You
have to prove membership.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, you have to prove
membership --
JUSTICE BREYER: And it happens, in this
instance, that you bring in a prima facie case. I'd be
repeating myself. And that he says withdrawal, and
withdrawal is designed to negate membership.
MS. HARRINGTON: But withdrawal does not
negate membership because, again, membership is really
just the agreement. And, in fact, a withdrawal defense
tends to confirm that a particular defendant agreed to
join a conspiracy because there is nothing to withdraw
from if he didn't join --
JUSTICE BREYER: But then the withdrawal
prior to the time charged negates membership in the
conspiracy that you have charged because there was no
membership during that time.
MS. HARRINGTON: It's true, but the
government has to prove that the defendant joined the
conspiracy and the conspiracy continued to exist. And
to bring you back to the Hyde --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, in a normal
case, where it's a robbery or burglary, whatever, you
charge the crime happened in X date, and the defendant
raises an affirmative defense that it's not within the
statute of limitations. Who bears the burden of proving
it does, in that situation?
MS. HARRINGTON: This Court stated, in
Grunewald, that the government bears the burden.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So, if you
bear the burden in the normal statute of limitations
case, the issue, I think, in my mind, becomes do you
continue to bear that burden in a conspiracy crime?
MS. HARRINGTON: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because -- and you still
have to prove -- you're saying that the elements of the
statute of limitation there are that there was an
agreement to commit a crime, this person joined it at
any time during the conspiracy, and the conspiracy
continues.
MS. HARRINGTON: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You don't have to prove
that the defendant was part of that conspiracy or joined
that conspiracy during the statute of limitations;
that's your point.
MS. HARRINGTON: We don't have to prove that
he -- that the agreement happened in the limitations
period or that any particular defendant did something to
sort of re-agree within the limitations period. And
that, again, is clear from this Court's decision in
Hyde, where, in that case, the defendant raising the
limitations defense had not done anything related to the
conspiracy within the limitations period.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think his intuitive
argument is, I can't be responsible for a crime I wasn't
a part of during the limitations period. That really is
the essence of his argument. And if it's your job to
prove that he committed the -- a robbery during the
limitations period, that it's your job to prove that he
committed the conspiracy during -- that he was part --
that the conspiracy -- that he was part of the
conspiracy during the limitations period --
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, what the statute --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think that -- that's
the simplicity of his argument.
MS. HARRINGTON: It -- that is the
simplified version of his argument. I think, if you
look at --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So simplify your
response to me.
(Laughter.)
MS. HARRINGTON: Okay. Well, if you look at
Section -- if you look at Section 3282, which is the
statute of limitations, it says that the crime --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's not a simple
response.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You are already way too
fast.
MS. HARRINGTON: What we have to prove is
that the crime was committed within the limitations
period. We proved that the crime was committed within
the limitations period because the conspiracy existed in
the limitations period. By operation of law, anyone who
has willingly joined the conspiracy at some point
remains a member of the conspiracy, unless or until he
takes an affirmative step to withdraw.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Isn't it essential to your
argument that the very definition of a conspiracy is a
crime that continues over time?
MS. HARRINGTON: Absolutely. The way the
statute of limitations defense operates within the
conspiracy context is it asks the question whether and
when a conspiracy was complete. But -- but the
affirmative defense of withdrawal is actually an
affirmative defense, even within that affirmative
defense, because it asks the question whether a
conspiracy was complete as to a particular defendant.
And to take advantage of that affirmative --
affirmative defense within an affirmative defense, the
defendant has to take some affirmative act. And it
makes sense to require him to prove that he took those
acts.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I wish I had -- we had the
supervening indictment before us. It's -- it's not in
the Joint Appendix.
MS. HARRINGTON: It's very long.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it -- it's described in
the Court of Appeals opinion as follows: "According to
the indictment in the district court and the evidence of
the United States at trial, during the late 1980s and
1990s, appellants Rodney Moore, Kevin Gray, John Raynor,
Calvin Smith, Timothy Handy, and Lionel Nunn, along with
others, some of whom were also indicted, but tried
separately, conspired to conduct and did conduct an
ongoing drug distribution business in Washington."
So apparently, according to that
description, it -- it was not charged as a conspiracy
during those five years. It was just charged as a
conspiracy.
MS. HARRINGTON: It was charged as an
ongoing conspiracy. It started before the beginning of
the limitations period.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right. So it would
have been up to the defendant to prove that the statute
of limitations barred -- barred his conviction.
MS. HARRINGTON: That's right. That's
why --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I suspect I agree.
If -- it's awfully tough to turn this on the presence or
absence of particular dates in the indictment, but
the -- the thing that motivates me -- I mean, I can see
it's like a rabbit-duck. You know, is it a rabbit, or
is it a duck? And -- and the -- the -- the thing that
is so rare in the law --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a jackalope, maybe. I
never heard of a rabbit-duck.
(Laughter.)
MS. HARRINGTON: Definitely a rabbit.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yet it's so rare, that the
government doesn't have the burden of proving beyond a
reasonable doubt, that it suggests, when in doubt, say
reasonable doubt.
But -- so what do you want? I mean, we've
thought of duress. We've thought of self-defense.
MS. HARRINGTON: Insanity is another.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Insanity.
JUSTICE BREYER: Insanity.
MS. HARRINGTON: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Anything else?
MS. HARRINGTON: Extreme emotional
disturbance. Just a constitutional matter, this Court
held in Patterson that the government didn't need to
disprove that.
JUSTICE ALITO: Ms. Harrington, would you
agree that, as this argument is developing, what is
really at issue has less to do with the statute of
limitations than the nature of conspiracy? And one view
is Petitioners', and it's embodied in some of the
questions that has been -- that have been asked, and
it's this: That the crime is continuing to participate
as a member of a conspiracy.
And the other view is that a conspiracy is a
dangerous thing. It's like rounding up a -- a pack of
lions or wolves or setting loose some thing that
continues to be a danger; and if you do that thing, by
joining it, you are liable, criminally, for everything
that happens after that, even if, at a certain point,
you walk away, and you do nothing.
Now, if -- if he's right, that it is active
membership, then there may be a problem for you here.
But if the other view is correct, that you are liable
for setting this thing in motion, whether or not you
continue to do anything active in support of it during
the limitations period, then you are correct.
Now, which is the -- which is the
established view of the crime of conspiracy?
MS. HARRINGTON: The view established by
this Court is that the crime of conspiracy continues,
and once a person joins the conspiracy, he or she is
liable for all the acts of his co-conspirators that were
reasonably foreseeable in furtherance of the conspiracy.
And that's true, even if that person, once he joins the
conspiracy, doesn't ever do anything else --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but you recognize --
you recognize, as I think Justice Alito's question
doesn't, that there is -- there is a withdrawal defense
and the question is how do you allocate the proof
burden?
So your case accepts that there is a
withdrawal defense. Indeed, the judge gave a charge to
the jury on -- so the contest, as I understand it, the
difference between the two of you is you say, defendant
can say, I withdrew. If he does that, he has to prove
it. And the defendant is saying, I have to produce
enough, so that a jury could find I withdrew, but you
have the ultimate burden of persuasion.
MS. HARRINGTON: That's right. And the
Petitioners' view is grounded in due process concerns.
Our view is that it is not a matter of due process
because lack of withdrawal is not an element of the
crime of conspiracy.
So once you take due process out of the
equation, then you have to ask what -- where would
Congress have understood the burden -- the allocation of
burdens to be, when it enacted these conspiracy statutes
in 1970?
And as a matter of logic, as a matter of
history, as a matter of policy, there is no reason to
think Congress would have thought the burden of
persuasion to be anywhere other than on the defendant.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I suppose that a
conspiracy is defined by relation to its criminal
objects, not to its membership. If there's five people
that conspired to rob a bank and one of the conspirators
has said, I'm out of here, I withdraw from the
conspiracy, metaphysically, you might argue, well, it's
a new conspiracy because it's a new group.
But there is no support of the law for that,
I take it.
MS. HARRINGTON: No, this Court has said the
opposite. It has said that -- you know, people can come
and go in a conspiracy and --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because it's the criminal
objects that define the conspiracy?
MS. HARRINGTON: That's right. And, again,
there's no dispute in this case that the conspiracy was
ongoing.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But
you've indicted -- you haven't indicted a conspiracy.
You've indicted an individual, and it's not clear to me
why you don't have to show that that was -- that that
individual's conduct was within the statute of
limitations period.
MS. HARRINGTON: Because once --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: At least, when he
comes forward with -- under the burden of production,
with evidence suggesting the opposite.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, again, if we can take
the due process part off the table -- because we think
it's not an element of lack of withdrawal, then you ask
sort of, you know, what -- how would Congress have
understood the state of the law to be when it enacted
these crimes, that's how the Court approached this
question as to duress in Dixon.
I think, as a matter of logic, because the
government can prove that someone is liable for a
conspiracy by proving that he joined a conspiracy at
some point and that the conspiracy existed in the
limitations period, it wouldn't make sense to require
the government to disprove withdrawal, once it's
asserted --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but Mr. Kramer
says it's not that big a deal, I mean, you don't have to
do -- he says you don't have to do anything at all.
MS. HARRINGTON: I think that's kind of a
remarkable assertion. If what he's saying is we have to
be disprove withdrawal, once the defendant asserts it
beyond a reasonable doubt, it's hard to imagine why the
government would ever -- once a defendant makes a prima
facie case of withdrawal, when the government would ever
just say, oh, well, we'll sort of rest on our laurels
and rest on the -- the evidence we have proving that he
joined the conspiracy outside the limitations period.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose this thing doesn't
come up in the -- in the statute of limitations context.
Suppose it comes up in the context of whether this
defendant is liable for an act committed by the
co-conspirators after he withdrew. So it's the same
issue of whether -- whether he withdrew or not, before
the murder of somebody, okay?
He said -- you know, before that occurred, I
was out of the conspiracy. What do our cases say
about -- about proving it in that context? Is the
burden on the defendant? Or is the burden on the
prosecution?
MS. HARRINGTON: Your cases don't say
anything about that. Our view is that the burden would
be --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I didn't hear you.
MS. HARRINGTON: Your cases don't say
anything about that question, so our view would be that
the -- the burden stays on the defendant to prove that
he withdrew from a conspiracy in that context. The
Pinkerton liability isn't at issue here, so you don't
need to -- to wrap that up into this case, but our --
our view would be the same.
JUSTICE BREYER: Nothing to do with statute
of limitations.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Kennedy?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I was just -- I was
curious. In 1997, the Petitioner did report the
identity of another cooperating witness to Gray. You
don't -- you don't rely on that as showing that he was,
indeed, part of the conspiracy? That's just irrelevant
to your case?
MS. HARRINGTON: No, we -- we do rely on
that. That's mentioned in our brief -- at the back end
of the brief where we talk --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that was -- it was
kind of a throwaway line. But why isn't that
dispositive for you?
MS. HARRINGTON: No, I think it is
dispositive. And that was the reason we gave for the
Court to deny the petition for Writ of Certiorari
because there is plenty of evidence in this case that
this defendant was in fact a member of the conspiracy.
There's evidence that the leaders of the conspiracy gave
him drugs and money.
First of all, there's evidence that the
reason he went to prison was to help out the leader of
the conspiracy. There was evidence he was paid back
because they gave him drugs and money while he was in
prison.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All of this is
questions for the jury under -- under the Petitioners'
view, right?
MS. HARRINGTON: Yes, certainly. I mean,
under -- under both views -- you know, it all -- all the
evidence goes to whether -- you know, he had joined the
conspiracy and whether he proved withdrawal.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I make sure I
understand one part of your argument, Ms. Harrington?
The conclusion that timing -- the timing is not an
element. Now, take Justice Sotomayor's example of
something which is not a conspiracy at all, let's say
somebody commits a robbery, and you have to show that
the person has committed a robbery and if the person
brings up the question of timing, you also have the
burden of persuasion on that. But would the timing be
an element in that case or not?
MS. HARRINGTON: Not.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And so you are essentially
saying that this case should be treated just as every
other case. You happen to have the burden of persuasion
if somebody says the statute of limitations has been
violated, but the question of when conduct occurred is
never an element.
MS. HARRINGTON: It's never an element. It
is true that the government -- if a defendant raises a
statute of limitations defense, the government has the
burden of proving that the crime was committed within
the limitations period. This Court said that in
Grunewald. It did not offer any explanation for that,
but we have accepted that as our burden.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Why is it then -- I mean,
why would Grunewald be right, that you do have the
burden if, in fact, this isn't an element?
MS. HARRINGTON: I think, just because it
is an -- it is a burden that is placed on the government
by Congress in Section 3282. I think -- I think a
reason one could think that it makes sense is that the
government already has to prove all the things that it
needs to prove, to prove that the crime actually
happened.
And generally, in proving that a crime
actually happened beyond a reasonable doubt, you also
prove when the crime actually happened. And so it
doesn't really add very much to what the government's
burden already is in proving the crime.
But that sort of leads me into sort of the
policy reasons for not allocating a burden of persuasion
to the government as to the issue of withdrawal. And
there are sort of four big reasons why Congress wouldn't
have understood the burden to be -- for policy
reasons -- wouldn't have understood the burden to be on
a defendant as to the issue of withdrawal.
The first is that the defendant will almost
always be in a better position to have the information
about whether he withdrew, except in cases where he
withdraws by making a clean rest with the government, in
which case, it's hard to imagine he's going to be
indicted for -- for the indictment past that period,
except in those cases, he will know what he said in
secret to his co-conspirators.
Second, the government will often be
prevented from bringing up evidence to rebut an
assertion of withdrawal because it can't make a
defendant testify, and it often won't be able to make
his co-conspirators testify.
Third, a defendant doesn't have to give any
advanced notice of his intention to rely on a withdrawal
defense, and so often, he can scuttle the defendant's --
the government's ability to procure any other evidence
it may be able to procure relevant to the issue of -- of
withdrawal.
And, fourth, Petitioner's role would
encourage spurious assertions of withdrawal because it
has -- it could have the effect of essentially making
the government prove something extra. It already has to
prove that he joined the conspiracy willingly, that the
conspiracy existed in the limitations period.
But under the government's -- under the
Petitioner's role -- excuse me -- the government would
also have to prove that the defendant essentially took
some other act to show his membership or somehow
re-agreed to the conspiracy --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that last
point seems to me spurious itself because, to prove
withdrawal, he's got to accept the fact that he was in
the conspiracy in the first place. So if he doesn't
have a good withdrawal defense, it's unlikely that he
would raise it because it would cost him any argument he
has against participation in a conspiracy in the first
place.
MS. HARRINGTON: But in cases where -- such
as this, where a defendant goes through a period of
inaction with respect to the conspiracy, which this
Court said in Hyde is not enough to withdraw, then there
would be an incentive to raise a spurious assertion of
withdrawal because it would require the government to
sort of -- to rebut that by proving that the defendant
had done something within that period, which it doesn't
have to prove in order to establish liability.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose he could present
his defense in the alternative, I didn't belong to the
conspiracy, and anyway, I withdrew. I mean, he can make
both of those points, can't he?
MS. HARRINGTON: He certainly can. I think
there's a good deal of risk in that for a defendant.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but, I mean,
that works in a civil case. But, I mean, in a criminal
case, it's kind of a big thing to say -- begin my -- my
first argument is that, I withdrew from this horrendous
conspiracy that's been going on.
MS. HARRINGTON: That --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or then I wasn't a
part of it after that.
That's a little different in a criminal
context.
MS. HARRINGTON: It's true. And the theory
of defense in this case was, in fact, that there were
many separate conspiracies, not that any particular
person had withdrawn, and it only came up, as my friend
pointed out, because the jury asked a question about it.
If I can just sort of wrap up on a -- on a
broader note? A defendant does not become liable for a
criminal conspiracy casually. As the jury was charged
in this case, the government has to prove that every
defendant was aware of the existence of the conspiracy,
that every defendant understood that it had an illegal
objective, and that every defendant willingly agreed to
participate in the conspiracy with the aim -- aim of
advancing that illegal objective.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You have -- you have
to prove that every defendant did?
MS. HARRINGTON: That every defendant
willingly joined the conspiracy, yes, with the
understanding that they were advancing some illegal
objective, the objective of the conspiracy. Now, that's
a high evidentiary --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let me -- so you
charge ten people as participating in this conspiracy,
and the jury determines that one wasn't, then
everybody's off the hook?
MS. HARRINGTON: No, no, no. No. I'm
sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you don't have to
prove --
MS. HARRINGTON: To prove liability for each
person, you have to prove that that person --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MS. HARRINGTON: -- satisfied all these
things. I'm sorry --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You have to treat
them as individuals.
MS. HARRINGTON: That's what I meant, yes,
yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which is what your
friend is trying to argue for in this case?
MS. HARRINGTON: Right. But that is -- this
is high evidentiary burden that the government has to
bear to prove that each defendant took some affirmative
action to get into the conspiracy. And once the -- once
the government proves that a defendant was a member of
the conspiracy, then it's on the defendant to prove --
to take some affirmative action to get himself out of
the conspiracy.
And it only makes sense to require him to
prove that he took that act, instead of requiring the
government to prove negative that he didn't take that
act in every case.
If there are no further questions?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is this -- the burden
allocation, is this a more hypothetical academic
question? I mean, you pointed out that you had ample
evidence to show that he remained a member of the
conspiracy.
So does the allocation of burden of
persuasion to the defendant versus proof of production
to the defendant, persuasion to the government, does it
really make much difference? Does it have much
practical consequence?
MS. HARRINGTON: I mean, it would not have
made a difference in this case, for the reasons you
suggest, we had good evidence that he had active
participation within the limitations period. It can
make a difference in some other cases -- you know, I
think, as a practical matter, most criminal conspiracies
that are charged in the Federal system involve activity
that was more recent than some of the activity that was
involved in this case.
But it certainly can come up, and -- you
know, if we didn't have the type of evidence that we did
about this particular defendant's behavior in prison,
then it would have been hard to rebut his assertion of
withdrawal caused by his incarceration. So it
definitely can come up.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, when you say
it wouldn't have made a difference in this case, you're
basically saying you had some good evidence. But a jury
could have always decided against you, right?
MS. HARRINGTON: Oh, it certainly could
have, right. It could have decided against us on the
whole thing, but --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but I think
it's a little much to say it wouldn't make a difference
because the jury would definitely have ruled in your
favor.
MS. HARRINGTON: Okay. I -- yeah. I didn't
mean to be brazen about it. We think we had good
evidence that the Petitioner continued in the conspiracy
in this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Harrington.
Mr. Kramer, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF A.J. KRAMER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. KRAMER: Thank you.
I would just like to start with one quick
point. My friend said that the government would never
rest on its laurels, but that's precisely what they did
in this case. It was 12 days into jury deliberation
when they said, go ahead and instruct the jury on
withdrawal, so they rested on the evidence that had been
presented in the trial. So that's precisely what they
did.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that's because they
thought that you had the burden. And it -- it does
strike me that, if you are right that this is an
element -- membership in the conspiracy at a particular
time -- and the government has the burden, this idea
that the government could -- you know, just sort of say,
well, we don't have any evidence, but we think you
should presume that we're right, I mean, that's -- the
government couldn't do that if you are right.
MR. KRAMER: The -- the government could
just rest on whatever they had presented originally and
tell the jury that's plenty to prove beyond -- to meet
our burden of proof.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, if you make an
assertion, and they don't really respond to the
assertion and -- you win.
MR. KRAMER: It -- I mean, it happens all
the time. The defendants say, I didn't do it, and the
government presents their evidence and say, that defense
is nonsense, we presented overwhelming evidence.
In fact, in this case, also they did -- they
didn't ask for the instruction because they thought it
was our burden. They agreed, in the end, that the jury
should be instructed --
JUSTICE ALITO: I think the crux of your
argument is that the government is going to have to
prove, beyond a reasonable doubt, active participation
in the conspiracy during the statute of limitations
period because it is impossible for the prosecution to
prove beyond a reasonable doubt that on no day, during a
five-year period, did the defendant withdraw from the
conspiracy.
It simply can't be done. This person was
under 24-hour video surveillance for the whole five-year
period.
MR. KRAMER: All they have to prove,
Justice Alito, is that the person was a member of the
conspiracy within the limitations period. That could be
done by the inference that they were a member outside
the limitations period and say that there was just
insufficient -- that the --
JUSTICE ALITO: And say what? That there
was insufficient evidence to prove --
MR. KRAMER: No.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- the opposite of what they
have to prove?
MR. KRAMER: No, that they -- insufficient
evidence doesn't create a reasonable doubt in what they
are required to prove, which is membership within the
limitations period.
JUSTICE ALITO: I thought you argue that
every day, that there is -- that something has to be
proved beyond a reasonable doubt because the prosecution
hasn't provided sufficient evidence?
MR. KRAMER: It is. And the prosecution
stands up and says, we presented plenty of evidence
that -- that there is no reasonable doubt here at all.
And that happens every day, needless to say, that people
are convicted by that argument when --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Kramer, if they
really have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that
there is membership in the conspiracy during the
limitations period, they couldn't just come in and say,
well, there's membership in the conspiracy before the
limitations period, and, you know, you should assume
that it continued.
I mean that's not a
beyond-a-reasonable-doubt kind of proof, is it?
MR. KRAMER: They get a permissive
inference. And there are many cases when I think that
would be proof beyond a reasonable doubt for a jury,
absent some conflicting evidence presented by the
defendant, more than just a proffer.
JUSTICE ALITO: Couldn't you argue they have
the burden of proving that the defendant did not
withdraw during this five-year period? They have the
burden of proving that. And did you hear any evidence
from them that -- did you hear evidence disproving
that -- that he didn't withdraw during that period?
There is no evidence on that.
MR. KRAMER: Of course --
JUSTICE ALITO: You can make that argument?
MR. KRAMER: Yes. Or did we prove -- did
you hear any evidence -- that there was no evidence that
Mr. Smith was a member during the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Your -- I'm sorry. The
Thomas Crown Affair again, all the evidence shows he
took $10,000 from the bank. He testifies and says, oh,
I was going to give it back, okay? The prosecution puts
on nothing. The jury says, are you kidding?
MR. KRAMER: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MR. KRAMER: I mean, and that happens every
day, I think, in cases where the prosecution just stands
up and says, you heard that evidence, nobody would think
that is a reasonable doubt, that someone was not a
member.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:01 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
13:11,17,19 amount 22:6 asserts 48:15 60:24 61:22
63:21 20:14 22:1,2,4 analogous 11:15 assume 35:8 beyond-a-reas...
25:13 26:6,9,15,19 anticipated 9:20 attaches 29:10 big 48:11 52:21
26:20,21,24 anybody 31:12 attack 25:12 55:5
41:23 41:19 42:2,3,3 anyway 54:24 aware 55:22 12:10,19,22
54:7 ago 23:2 35:10 Appeals 42:16 A.J 1:15 2:3,9 17:1,4,8,16
applies 5:25 B 43:22 44:5,7
32:17,18 38:18 approached 36:5 39:3 50:5 brief 7:22 27:13
20:16 agreement 8:6 area 37:13 baked 33:8 50:6
42:8 11:10,11 31:23 argue 20:11 bank 11:19 32:7 bring 38:12 39:3
54:3 32:17,20 38:17 46:24 57:2 46:22 63:7 bringing 53:9
39:20 40:4 61:20 62:18 barred 43:8,8 brings 51:11
57:6,9 aim 55:25,25 argument 1:12 basically 9:13 burden 5:13,16
26:14,16 5:19 9:12 12:4 bear 39:13,15 6:16,16,20,22
45:2,6 20:2,9 44:12 28:4 29:2 bears 39:8,11 12:17,20 13:1
60:21 60:19 61:6,11 36:25 40:12,14 beginning 43:4 13:21 14:13,25
Alito's 45:18 54:10 55:6 29:3 59:10 19:11,12 22:22
35:1 allegedly 19:10 62:3 63:1 believe 11:2 24:13,15 29:10
45:13 alleges 14:10 arrest 21:18 24:18,20 39:8,11,13,15
alternative aspects 9:18 19:13 20:11 51:17,24 52:2
59:21 cases 3:16 5:17 claim 10:16 3:11,13 4:24 49:5,16 50:2
60:7,17 6:4 7:23,24 claims 5:9,9 17:22 46:12,17 50:14,15,19
15:3,23 21:14 classified 13:17 47:24 52:8,21 51:3,8 53:23
53:6 54:13 Clause 29:6 connects 17:12 54:11,15,24
37:9 casually 55:20 34:24 36:4 consequences 57:8,10,20
cause 36:4,15 40:7 47:13 29:13 59:4,23 60:22
causes 36:1 coincidence 55:15 58:6 conspirators
16:2 charge 31:12 comes 3:15 9:13 9:19,19,22,25 29:11,12 33:15
33:13,22,24 commits 37:9 19:24 20:7,12 context 33:18
6:9,10 42:25 43:1,3 9:8 17:24 28:2 24:8 28:10 continue 20:7
55:20 58:7 30:3 40:15,17 29:9 30:8 31:1 39:15 45:6
16:1 charges 37:10 41:13,14 48:25 31:8,10,14,15 continued 10:18
17:17 charging 31:13 51:10,24 31:24,25 32:5 20:19 21:3
19:25 Chief 3:3,9 7:1 common 4:23 32:18,19,21,25 23:12 34:9
9:12,17 10:7 communicating 33:3,18,22 39:2 59:4
22:9 10:20 15:13 21:21 34:1,3,8,9,12 62:10
26:6 22:25 23:13,24 complete 16:11 35:2,4 36:1,17 continues 32:21
28:20 24:6,20,25 42:1,5 36:20 37:2,4,4 39:22 41:22
25:10 28:25 comply 21:23 37:6,14,19 44:23 45:11
32:2 29:5 36:10,12 component 10:5 38:19,23 39:2 continuing 3:19
35:16 36:21 47:11,18 concerns 30:9 39:2,15,21,21 8:18 44:18
37:2 48:10 49:22 46:6 39:25 40:1,10 controverted
38:12 50:22 54:5 conclusion 51:6 40:17,18,19 5:24
40:8 55:3,9 56:2,9 conduct 42:22 41:15,17,18,21 conversation
47:9 56:15,19,22 42:22 47:15 41:25 42:1,5 19:9,14,18
49:18 57:1 58:16,23 51:19 42:25 43:2,4 convicted 62:3
51:13 59:6 63:18 conducting 44:15,19,20 conviction 31:16
53:4 choice 17:23 35:13 45:9,11,12,14 43:8
circuit 21:13 confirm 38:18 45:16 46:9,13 Cook 4:10 35:16
58:2,9 circuits 28:21 conflicting 46:20,24,25 36:5
59:5,15 civil 5:9,10 6:2 62:16 47:5,7,9,12 cooperating
63:19,20 55:4 Congress 3:11 48:5,5,6,21 16:8 20:5
45:9,11 46:9 12:13,16,18,20 41:24 42:2,3,4 dispositive 50:9
52:15,17 15:3,4 16:2,15 45:23 51:23 disprove 19:18
63:18 criminal 4:22 18:25,25 19:9 defenses 6:21 disproving
16:24 6:2,5 9:10 20:18,21 21:3 define 47:7 dispute 31:7
30:1 12:12 24:8 24:23 25:5,7 defined 46:20 32:1 34:20
26:12 32:8 25:11 27:6 definitely 43:21 36:16 47:9
4:9 55:4,11,20 31:24 32:18 definition 18:20 distinguished
6:1,4 58:6 33:14,20 34:7 41:21 6:1
11:4 13:9 criminally 9:22 34:22 35:20,21 deliberation distribution
18:12,13 44:24 38:3,18 39:1,6 59:15 42:23
26:24 cross 25:18 39:25 40:5,8 deny 50:12 district 11:3
cross-examina... 42:5,8 43:7 Department 22:10 42:17
29:5 15:5,10 45:25 46:2,18 1:18 disturbance
33:25 cross-examined 48:15,17,25 depending 38:5 44:9
35:15,15 24:4 49:7,15 50:14 deprive 12:5,9 Dixon 13:9
39:10 Crown 11:18 51:22 52:24,25 described 7:22 18:12,13,16
44:9 13:2 63:6 53:11,13 54:2 42:15 48:2
47:3 crux 32:23 54:14,19 55:2 description doctrine 3:23
50:12 60:19 55:19,22,23,24 42:25 4:1
54:16 curious 49:24 56:3,4 57:5,7,8 designed 38:14 documentary
D 62:17,19 3:21 33:6 doing 19:11
15:8 danger 44:23 60:12 56:11 6:24 11:24
49:1 dangerous defendant's developing 14:15 19:13
44:21 3:21 8:8 17:13 44:13 20:12 22:22
37:17 39:6 Defender 1:15 32:24 45:25 25:14,19 30:17
7:5,7,7 deal 48:11 55:2 10:16 13:8,11 10:24 11:2,3,6 61:22 62:1,5
9:7 13:14 dealing 13:9 13:13,17,19 11:8,12,18 62:15 63:15
17:23 decided 58:19 16:3,5 17:6,7 17:2 18:18,22 driving 12:2
28:2 58:21 18:22 19:8 55:11 drug 42:23
30:9 decision 3:12 22:23 26:1,2,5 differently 3:17 drugs 50:16,20
34:5,7 4:24 33:19 26:6,9,16,20 difficult 15:14 duck 43:16
38:3 40:7 26:21,24 27:15 difficulties 5:18 due 29:6 46:6,7
defend 16:20 27:16 28:14 directly 17:19 46:10 47:22
41:6,13 defendant 4:12 33:21 38:17 disagree 15:25 duress 13:8,9
44:18 5:21 6:8,15 39:7 40:9 disavow 15:12 16:13,16 17:6
18:10 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 48:6 53:24 52:25 54:8,11 15:16,20 23:6
48:2 2:6,9 existence 4:18 55:6 24:9,10 53:4
explain 27:22 43:1 46:21 63:8
29:2 53:21 54:2 52:1 35:4,11 36:1 government 5:2
7:5 establishes 26:6 extinguishes follows 42:16 14:2,8,14
8:2,3 event 4:2 8:17 foreseeable 8:10 15:14,17,22,23
18:19 everybody 21:1 extinguishment 8:12 45:14 16:3,7,14,22
26:7,9,21 everybody's 7:24 forward 6:17 19:12 20:11,17
56:12 extra 53:22 47:19 22:9,18,20
29:9,12 evidence 6:12,18 Extreme 44:8 found 11:18 23:2,7,9,16
31:18,22 8:20 11:20,23 12:10,14 24:11,19 25:16
32:14,16 14:22 15:9,11 F four 10:24 29:13 27:9,10 28:6
33:2,12 16:9,16,16 facie 38:12 52:21 59:8 28:12,17,19
34:5 19:1,21 20:21 48:18 fourth 29:18 29:7,15,16
20:22 21:5 fact 5:1,2,3 6:4,9 53:19 30:3 31:6,23
46:8 24:3,18,21,22 9:13 17:16 friend 32:24 32:1,13 34:6
51:7,13 25:1,6,8 30:12 19:2 23:10 55:16 57:2 34:11 35:16
52:5 30:13 42:17 25:17,21 32:4 59:13 36:17 37:1
47:20 48:20 38:17 50:14 further 57:15 38:4 39:1,11
13:10,13 51:2 53:9,16 55:14 60:15 45:14 48:4,8,17,18
57:19 58:3,11 facts 5:24 51:22,23 52:7
17:19 58:18 59:4,17 failing 29:19 G 52:10,20 53:3
26:15 60:1,13,14 fairly 16:1 G 3:1 53:8,22 54:1
33:8 61:12,17,23,25 far 36:5 General 1:18 54:18 55:21
39:18 62:16,21,22,24 fast 41:11 generally 52:13 57:4,7,13,23
example 11:17 Fifth 15:21 25:2 57:16 53:16,25
excuse 34:8 54:1 11:15 13:2 53:13 63:8 21:23 42:19
34:10 36:17 Finish 7:2 go 7:4 16:11 grounds 6:1
26:15 34:12 35:4 21:1 29:14 51:2 54:14 10:15 27:4
49:12 62:21,22 47:13 53:5 intentionally jury's 22:11,18
30:22 held 35:16 44:10 35:18 36:8,13 58:9 10:20,20 11:10
help 16:11 30:2 37:10 42:12,17 involvement 11:14 12:10,19
35:2 high 15:2 56:8 indictments irrelevant 22:17 13:18 14:1,7
39:6 57:4 11:5 50:2 14:23 15:13
52:12,14 history 46:16 individual 9:25 issue 21:1 22:9 16:10 17:1,4,8
homicide 5:19 10:13 17:12 24:15 26:1 17:16,25 18:4
44:25 horrendous individuals 9:15 30:23 35:24 19:6,22 20:2,9
62:2 55:6 56:23 39:14 44:14 20:22 21:8,10
Hyde 3:16 8:25 individual's 49:2,17 52:20 21:25 22:13,24
33:19 39:3 inference 14:17 24:6,20,25
29:1,2,4,23 hypothetical 61:8 62:14 jackalope 43:18 26:11,18 27:1
31:4,17 24:7 57:17 inferred 20:20 jail 22:3 27:5,17,21
32:16,23 information job 40:14,16 28:12,25 29:5
34:14,17 I 53:1 John 1:3 42:19 29:23,24 30:6
35:5 idea 24:8 59:24 initially 4:14 join 31:25 32:17 31:11,18 32:3
identity 49:25 Insanity 44:3,4 32:19 38:19,20 32:22 34:11,15
illegal 55:23 44:5 joined 9:2 14:5 34:18,21 35:3
38:2,9 56:1,6 inside 37:22 14:6 34:7,8 35:8,19,22,24
39:10 imagine 48:16 insofar 16:11 37:1,3 39:1,20 36:10,12,21
40:3 53:4 instance 11:15 39:25 41:17 37:7,25 38:7
41:4 imply 20:15 11:25 12:23,24 48:5,21 51:2 38:11,21 39:4
42:14 impossible 13:3 32:7 53:23 56:5 39:12,17,24
44:3 60:23 38:12 joining 44:24 40:11,21 41:1
impression instruct 59:16 joins 45:12,15 41:7,10,20
46:5 26:23 27:15 instructed 11:4 Joint 42:13 42:11,15 43:6
inaction 54:15 29:17 60:18 judge 45:23 43:11,18,22
49:9,13 incarcerated instruction jury 11:4 14:14 44:4,5,7,12
21:6 22:11,19 60:16 18:5 20:25 45:17,18 46:19
incarceration instructions 24:3,18 25:6 47:6,11,18
54:13 58:14 18:5 22:21 29:17 33:24 48:10,22 49:12
56:4 incentive 54:17 insufficient 45:24 46:3 49:20,22,22,23
inconsistent 61:10,12,16 50:23 55:17,20 50:7,22 51:4,7
58:1,20 19:2 intended 12:8 56:11 58:18,25 51:15 52:3
indicates 10:21 intent 11:20,21 59:15,16 60:6 54:5,22 55:3,9
57:1,16 17:2,5,11,21 9:22,22 10:4 longer 7:14,19 9:19
59:6 18:3,5,9,12,24 44:24 45:4,13 look 24:3 25:25 membership
60:8,19 19:17,25 20:4 48:4,25 55:19 37:8,18 38:5 3:23 7:6,11,12
20:15,24 21:13 limitation 37:12 40:25 41:4,5 8:8 10:5 14:9
63:1,5 22:8,15,24 39:19 looking 12:24 17:14 19:3
23:9,19 24:1 limitations 3:14 37:7 23:11,12,22
25:4 3:17,25 4:3,4,6 loose 44:22 24:2 28:4,9,10
32:22 27:7,19 28:3 9:9,14,24 mad 21:19 22:4 37:18 38:8,10
52:3 28:16 48:10 10:12,18,23,24 making 53:3,21 38:14,16,16,22
60:8 59:8,9,11 60:4 11:3,8,16 matter 1:11 38:24 45:3
60:11 61:5,13 12:25 14:18 12:12 32:5,11 46:21 54:3
41:20 62:13,25 63:2 19:15,21 20:3 46:15,15,16 62:6,8
47:6 63:10,12 20:13,19 23:22 48:3 58:6 mentioned 50:5
24:1 25:22,24 63:21 merits 6:10
L 26:2,23 27:11 mean 20:15 22:1 metaphysically
47:23 30:20,21,23 32:7 36:5 37:7 mind 8:2 39:14
50:8 Laughter 27:20 34:23 35:11,18 48:11 50:25 50:16,20
62:12 41:3,9 43:20 36:18,20,22 52:3 54:24 Moore 42:19
33:6,11 law 4:23 12:12 40:9,10,13,16 60:11 62:11 motivates 43:14
43:15 18:8 22:1 40:19 41:6,13 63:12 Mullaney 5:17
49:4 26:12 37:2 41:15,16,24 means 4:15 murder 9:20
53:6 41:16 43:17 43:5,8 44:15 20:16 16:15 49:3
59:25 47:1,25 45:7 47:16 meant 21:11 museum 11:19
lead 19:16 48:7,21,23 56:24
28:10 leaders 50:15 51:25 53:24 member 7:10 N 2:1,1 3:1
leave 11:12 61:7,9,19 62:7 10:8,23 14:16 44:15
3:6,7,9 Ledbetter 27:7 line 50:8 19:2,5,20 21:11
5:15 27:12 Lionel 42:20 20:18 30:8,11 necessary 5:2,4
7:3,15,23 left 21:3 lions 44:22 30:13,14,15,17 need 44:10
let's 16:13 19:7 little 3:17 55:11 31:1,10,15 49:18
9:5,16 35:8,9,10 51:8 58:24 32:10,12,15 needless 62:2
11:1 liability 7:16,25 logic 46:15 48:3 34:1 37:4 needs 52:11
8:18 9:2 10:6 logical 27:18,18 41:18 44:19 negate 7:4,9,12
49:17 54:21 long 8:12,15 50:14 57:7,19 13:10,13,14,15
15:1 56:17 32:21 34:5 61:6,8 63:4,16 13:20 18:14,17
16:23 liable 8:10,14 35:22 42:14 members 9:15 26:15 38:14,16
38:22 27:17 41:4 paper 37:17 45:7 47:16 plenty 50:13
12:10,14 12:14 14:9 47:22 50:2 61:7,9,19 62:7 40:2 41:17
19:15 30:15 36:25 51:5 55:10 62:9,20,23 44:25 48:6
28:18 37:1 45:12,15 participate 10:9 permanently 54:6 59:13
51:20,21 46:10 47:17 20:7 33:22 12:6 pointed 55:17
48:8,15,17 44:18 55:25 permissive 57:18
60:14 42:23 43:4 participation 15:19,20 16:2 policy 46:16
operates 41:24 20:20 28:11 39:20 45:12,15 position 53:1
55:19 Oppenheimer 60:21 61:6 practice 11:17
21:5 47:4,20 61:14 33:10 34:15 46:4,18 51:12 17:6
29:2 42:5 43:13 57:22,23 present 6:12
14:5,13,20 people 11:5,9,11 49:24 59:4 62:16
60:5 46:21 47:4 1:16 2:4,10 3:8 60:13
23:10 29:7 period 7:9 8:22 50:23 59:10 presumes 37:3
49:4 overcome 20:20 20:19 23:11,23 phrase 34:25 pre-1995 32:5
overt 10:19,19 24:2 25:22,24 pieces 21:5 prima 38:12
9:9 12:5 60:14 32:20 33:2,3 place 9:8 21:1 prior 38:22
17:20 owner 12:5,9 33:23 34:13,16 37:15 54:8,12 prison 50:18,21
32:14 35:2,4,18 36:1 placed 52:7 58:12
31:23 32:9,11 45:18,20 48:2 45:14 reserve 28:23
32:17,19,21 49:14 51:11,19 reasons 5:15 respect 7:4 9:18
39:18,24 40:3 questions 44:17 52:19,21,23 32:2 36:23
15:11 42:9 43:7 46:1 quick 6:9 59:12 rebut 14:21 53:9 respond 60:9
20:23 48:4 49:15 quite 15:2 54:19 58:13 responded
52:10,11,11,15 rebuttal 2:8 29:25
25:8 54:6,21 55:21 R 3:1 recall 21:16 1:19 2:7 29:3
20:21 57:5,8,12,13 rabbit-duck recognize 45:17 41:2,8
62:5 63:2 28:15 29:20 reduces 9:13 10:10 40:12
14:13,25 proved 14:16 35:23 38:4 referred 5:1 6:6 rest 5:20 14:12
19:11 17:23 25:18 54:10,17 27:12 14:19 20:17
57:22 29:19 31:7 raised 4:11,13 refused 21:22 23:10,11 48:19
15:18,24 36:17 37:1 raises 39:7 relevance 32:3,6 rested 59:17
24:13,16 41:14 51:3 51:22 relevant 53:17 return 11:20,21
32:5 61:22 raising 28:18 relies 25:16 11:25
57:22 proven 36:22 40:8 rely 50:1,4 re-agree 40:6
62:12,15 proves 27:10 rare 43:17,22 53:14 re-agreed 54:4
60:23 49:6 51:24 38:16 40:13 remains 12:16 32:17 33:4,5
63:8 52:13,17 54:19 44:14 52:16 12:18 13:21 34:23,24 35:23
62:19,21 57:24 60:9 37:4 41:18 39:12,23 43:6
6:8,23 8:5 punished 7:20 reason 46:16 48:14 47:8 50:24
9:3,7 purpose 10:3 50:11,18 52:9 repeating 12:24 52:4 57:3
10:8,11,17 put 15:14 17:2 reasonable 5:3,6 38:13 58:19,21 59:22
12:7,8 puts 23:3 63:8 5:7,23 6:24 report 49:24 60:2,3 63:10
puzzle 37:8 11:24 14:15 requested 22:10 rights 15:21
17:6 puzzling 10:25 19:13 20:12 22:19,20 25:3
19:13 22:22 23:15 require 17:23 ringleader
Q 24:14 25:14,19 29:6 42:9 48:7 21:17 22:5
21:8 qualified 22:16 30:17 34:6 54:18 57:11 25:12
question 22:17 43:24,25 48:16 required 6:8 risk 55:2
25:13,19 30:22,25 31:6 52:14 60:21,24 61:18 rob 32:6 46:22
31:9 33:8,8 61:17,22 62:1 requirement robbery 30:2,3
37:18,20,23 62:5,15 63:15 5:23 29:19 39:5 40:15
30:10,16 41:25 42:4 reasonably requiring 57:12 51:9,10
9:12,17 61:25 63:7,9 32:13 47:14 specifically stronger 17:18
15:13 63:14 51:9 54:3 27:12 34:25 17:22 27:22
23:13,24 SCALIA 4:7,11 57:19 spurious 53:20 subject 3:14
4:15 17:25 showing 50:1 54:6,17 15:10
28:25 18:4,7,10,18 shown 14:3 standard 16:18 subjects 15:5
21:8,25 22:13 31:14 stands 61:25 submitted 63:19
48:10 25:23 26:4,11 shows 16:14 63:13 63:21
50:22 26:18 27:1,5 18:25 63:6 start 59:12 substantive
55:3,9 27:17 28:12 side 5:10,14 started 43:4 12:12
34:11,15,18,21 similar 17:10 starts 4:4 sufficient 25:13
57:1 35:3,8,19,22 32:11 state 16:25 27:10 61:23
59:6 35:24 42:11,15 simple 14:21 47:25 suggest 58:3
43:6,18 44:4 16:1 41:7 stated 39:10 suggested 5:18
Section 41:5,5 situation 39:9 6:3,5 7:5,17,18 supervening
29:2 sense 10:11 sorry 4:14 7:1,2 30:2,19,20,23 35:5,6 51:4
22:16 24:5 56:14,21 63:5 33:23 34:23 61:3
33:15 42:9 40:6 47:24 39:8,13,19 system 5:25 17:3
30:6,10 separate 55:15 Sotomayor 7:21 48:23 49:20 T 2:1,1
36:19,21 separately 42:22 8:1,9,14,17,23 51:18,23 60:22 table 47:22
46:2 set 33:4,5 9:1,6 27:21 statutes 3:12,14 take 15:21 16:13
51:16 sets 4:3 39:4,12,17,24 3:18 5:8 9:24 22:2 42:6,8
setting 44:22 40:11,21 41:1 11:2 46:13 46:10 47:2,21
16:15 seven 35:10,13 Sotomayor's 28:5,13 taken 34:2
25:11 35:22 51:7 stay 8:15 takes 37:5 41:19
37:10 shifts 12:1 13:1 so-and-so 15:15 stays 49:15 talk 50:6
41:6 show 7:11 15:10 special 9:23 step 41:19 talked 6:5 15:19
58:6,23 59:3 trouble 19:6 violated 51:19 wish 42:11
60:6 thinking 18:13 15:18 29:24 waive 29:18 34:2 37:6
Thomas 11:18 try 11:10,11 waives 28:18 withdrawal 3:24
thought 25:4 12:22 27:22 want 15:19 7:13,17 10:3
23:6 60:16 61:20 turn 43:12 wanted 23:5 20:21,23 21:12
25:1,11 three 11:3 twice 14:8,12,19 wants 22:23 22:7,11,19,20
three-year two 8:2 31:4 30:13 23:15,21 24:3
24:4 threshold 14:24 type 58:11 1:15,18 42:23 29:7,8 32:11
59:6,11 thwart 11:11 U 30:14,14 32:12 38:21 42:2
time 7:13,16 ultimate 46:4 36:19,22 40:12 45:19,23 46:8
44:21 28:24 31:1 45:24 51:5 way 3:20,21 52:20,24 53:10
45:5 33:10 37:15,22 understanding 15:22,23 18:24 53:14,18,20
55:5 38:22,24 39:21 19:7 23:1 56:6 18:25 37:9 54:7,9,18
41:22 59:24 understood 38:1 41:10,23 58:14 59:17
33:4 times 11:6,12 52:22,23 55:23 went 50:18 22:2
52:10 timing 33:7 36:6 United 1:1,6,12 weren't 21:20 withdrawn
51:6,6,11,12 3:4 42:18 we'll 3:3 48:19 55:16
9:5 10:14 told 15:15 23:4 25:17 we've 14:16 24:4 withdrew 8:15
13:24 24:23 25:11 use 32:9,11 44:1,2 8:20 10:3
16:1 torn 38:1 usually 37:16 Wilbur 5:17 14:10 19:1,4
19:17 tough 43:12 willful 17:14 19:10,15 21:9
22:3,4,5 traditional 5:24 V 28:11 23:4 30:15,22
23:19,19 transforming v 1:5 3:4 5:17 willfully 14:6 37:22 46:1,3
24:17,19 20:9 vary 16:25 18:2,11,16,21 49:1,2,16 53:2
28:16 treat 9:14 56:22 version 40:24 willing 25:1 54:24 55:6
36:3,16 treated 3:17 versus 57:22 willingly 27:25 witness 19:8
37:8,15 9:24 10:2 video 61:3 37:1,3 41:17 21:15,21,22
38:2 51:16 view 10:22 53:23 55:24 25:17 49:25
40:11,21 trial 42:18 59:18 44:15,20 45:4 56:5 witnesses 15:8
45:18 trials 25:16 45:9,10 46:6,7 win 60:10 16:8 20:5
47:22 tried 7:19 42:21 49:10,14,19 Winship 5:1 wolves 44:22
50:10 triggering 4:2 50:24 29:10 words 3:22 23:3
37:16 29 2:7
3
58:17
5
6
1:9
9
1:13 3:2
1:4 3:4
63:20
59:15
3:11
33:19
46:14
42:18
42:19
30:22
30:8 32:7,8
30:23
32:10,12
30:9
1:9
27:13
61:3
