IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
TARRANT REGIONAL WATER DISTRICT, :
Petitioner : No. 11-889
v. :
RUDOLF JOHN HERRMANN, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 23, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:10 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Petitioner.
ANN O'CONNELL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United
States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner.
LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ANN O'CONNELL, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioner 18
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
LISA S. BLATT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 56
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:10 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next this morning in Case 11-889, Tarrant
Regional Water District v. Herrmann.
Mr. Rothfeld?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
In the Red River Compact, Oklahoma agreed
that Texas would be allowed to use a specified quantity
of water that is located in Oklahoma. Oklahoma is now
trying to back out of that bargain.
What its argument to this Court in support
of its position is essentially that the Court should
disregard language that appears in the Red River Compact
because that language is superfluous, that the Court
should read into the Compact language that does not
appear there, and that the Court should not give the
text of the Compact what Oklahoma in its brief describes
as talismanic significance.
Our very different view is that the plain
text of the Compact must control.
Now, in the Red River Compact, Texas and
Oklahoma, along with Louisiana and Arkansas, agreed to
allocate among themselves the waters of the Red River
Basin. The Compact divides that basin into large areas
called reaches and subdivides the reaches into
subbasins. As to some of those areas, the Compact
expressly allocates entitlement to water by State line.
It says that the States may use the water within their
boundaries exclusively.
But in the section of the Compact which is
at issue here, Reach 2, Subbasin 5, the Compact uses a
very different and unique language. That section -
that subbasin includes the territory of three of the
four compacting States. The boundaries of that subbasin
are drawn not by State lines, but by reference to the -
the last downside dam sites before tributaries to the
Red River Basin -- Red River flow into the river itself.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rothfeld, we are told
that in other compacts when they really mean to give one
State the right to take another State's water, the
provision in the compact is much clearer, much more
definite.
This clause, the one that you rely on, is
kind of sketchy, isn't it? Doesn't say how they're
going to get it, if they're going to pay for it.
There's a lot to be filled in.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, the provision that we
are relying on, I would say is not sketchy at all. It
is quite clear that all four of the compacting States
are in the language of the Compact, have equal rights to
the use of water, defined water in a defined area of the
subbasin, so long as no State uses more than 25 percent
of the water. That -- that is quite express as to what
is required.
In -- it's difficult to read that language
to mean anything other than that the States can take -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is the exact language?
Do you want to read the exact language just to refresh
our recollection?
MR. CLEMENT: It appears -- it is reprinted
on page 8 of the blue brief in the indented text, and it
says, "Within this -- within this subbasin, the
signatory States have equal rights to the use of," and
then it defines the water that they have the rights to
the use of, "at times of normal flow" -- with the flow
of the Red River at 3,000 cubic feet per second at the
Arkansas/Louisiana border -- "provided that no State is
entitled to more than 25 percent of the water in excess
of this amount."
So the -- the gist of the language is States
have -- all -- all four signatory States have equal
rights to the use of -
JUSTICE BREYER: It doesn't say that. It
says, "No State is entitled to more than 25 percent."
It doesn't say -- I mean that language doesn't say what
happens if in fact there's a State that because of
cliffs or something can't get the 25 percent to which it
is entitled. It just doesn't say anything about it.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I have to disagree with
that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Where does it say something
about it?
MR. ROTHFELD: It says that -- the section
is designed to allocate the water of the subbasin, and
it says, "Within the subbasin, States have equal rights
to use of the runoff." That's the first part of it.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. ROTHFELD: The second part of it then
says, "provided that no State is entitled to more than
25 percent" -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Does that mean
that a State can, when it can't get its pipeline to the
river, go into some other State and take the water out
of that other State? I mean, I would have thought, if
that was their intent, there would be a mechanism for
doing it; that you'd have some authority set up by the
Compact that would decide where, whether it's really
true, and how are we supposed to do it, and there is no
such mechanism, rather if there is such a right, which
it doesn't say anything about, it's left to the State
courts in different States to try to do what is an
extremely complex and controversial administrative job.
MR. ROTHFELD: A couple points to say about
that. First of all, it is not at all a complex job.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's not at all complex
when Oklahoma is going to say, Texas, go run the pipe to
the south of the Red River, and Texas is going to say,
I'm sorry, we can't get there, there's too much cactus.
And then they're going to say, don't you know that, in
fact, when you put your pipeline into Oklahoma, you are
going to be taking part of the 25 percent that belongs
to us.
And Texas will say, no, we aren't. And then
we'll have to have a way of measuring how much goes into
the river at different places and what are all these
different pipelines are going to take out. You
understand what I'm saying.
MR. ROTHFELD: Right. But -
JUSTICE BREYER: I would have thought a
mechanism would be set up to do that and there is none.
MR. ROTHFELD: Okay. Again, several things
about that. First of all, in all these other compacts
to which Justice Ginsburg alludes that are cited by our
opponents, which expressly allow for cross-border -
virtually none of them provide any of the kinds of
details that you are describing.
JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. But they do say
expressly, and I don't know what the terrain is like in
the other areas. And here it does not say anything
about it. That's why I think we're here in the Court,
because all it says is you can't take more than
25 percent. It doesn't say what happens when Texas is
unable to get its 25 percent from the south. I'm now
repeating myself, but you point to the language that
says what I just say is not consistent with the
language.
MR. ROTHFELD: What I say -- I guess I will
say two things about that. One, I think what you just
say is, in fact, with respect, is not consistent with
the language. I think that -
JUSTICE BREYER: Which language is it not
consistent with?
MR. ROTHFELD: Equal rights to use of
specified water. It -- the -- the subbasin is defined,
again, not by State lines; it's defined by -- by
downstream dam sites. So it has created a pool of water
in the -- in this subbasin, and it says that all four
States have equal rights to use of this water, provided
that none takes more than 25 percent.
It seems to me that on the face of it, that
is saying State lines are not relevant and that what we
are looking at is a pool of water the States can come
and get it. And it is particularly so -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me.
MR. ROTHFELD: If I may just -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no. Finish.
MR. ROTHFELD: And I think to the extent
that there could be any ambiguity in the -- in that
language viewed in isolation, in the context of the rest
of the Compact, there are places where the drafters of
the Compact, in fact, did refer to State lines. They
said that States are entitled to use the water within
their State values, the respective States may use the
water within their boundaries. They did not -- the
framers did not use that language in this provision.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think under your
argument, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, that
Louisiana could decide it doesn't want to wait for the
flow of water to come to it, and it could just go right
into Oklahoma, in which it shares no border, and I don't
know how it's going to do that, and take its 25 percent.
Does that make sense in terms of the language?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I will -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, you're talking
about Texas, but Texas shares a border and so it may be
a little easier to cross the borderline. But what's
Louisiana going to do?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, let me make two points
about that.
First of all, I think that not only does it
make sense in the language; it's compelled by the
language, because the language says within this subbasin
all four States have equal rights. Separately, there is
another separate reach. Reach V of the Compact is
Louisiana's, and so the water flows into Louisiana.
When the water gets to Louisiana, it's no longer within
the subbasin, it's somewhere else.
So the plain language of the Compact compels
the reading -- compels the -- the point that Louisiana
could take its water from within the subbasin.
Now, could it do that? The subbasin runs
through to Arkansas to Louisiana, so it could go to
Louisiana -
JUSTICE BREYER: Go back to the first one,
because what you have done is you've pushed me back to
the equal rights. And now if I am going to fight you on
it, I have to say the equal rights to water means equal
rights to water arising within its boundaries. And all
you have to say is equal rights to water arising
anywhere in the subbasin.
And if I just heard that, then I might say
okay, I think yours is a little better. But -- but we
have this enormous administrative mess that would seem
to be created, and both those interpretations seem
possible.
So let's go back to that and let me hear
quite clearly, now that I've focused it: What's the
answer?
MR. ROTHFELD: If I may just finish with
Justice Sotomayor and I will turn to that?
I think the second answer to the question
is, the States are going to take the water from the
closest point where they can get it. And so Louisiana
is not going to go to Oklahoma. If it's going to go
into Subbasin 5, it's going to go to Arkansas directly
across the State line.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How -- how does it do it?
Does it have to apply to Texas?
MR. ROTHFELD: It has to apply to
whichever -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: To Oklahoma.
MR. ROTHFELD: If it's going to Oklahoma,
and this is partially responsive to Justice Breyer, it
would have to apply to the water authorities within
Oklahoma. So what is going on here, Tarrant, the Texas
water district, is applying to the Oklahoma Water
Resources Board. It will seek a permit. This will
operate precisely in the same way as if an Oklahoma
applicant is seeking a permit.
You will go to -- you will go and say, I
want to take water out of this point. The Water
Resources Board will apply its ordinary standards to
determine whether or not that can be granted.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Who -- who erects the
facilities to accomplish this diversion?
MR. ROTHFELD: Tarrant presumably will do
that. If Tarrant needs to obtain rights of way,
Oklahoma law provides for exercise of eminent domain, or
Tarrant can simply purchase the property to do that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's -- it's my
understanding that there is a place where Texas can put
a line into the river, and then a subset of that
question is, the main stem of the river, through -
without going through Oklahoma property, other than
perhaps just the bank itself.
MR. ROTHFELD: That -- that I think is not
correct as a factual matter. The -- the Red River lies
entirely within Oklahoma, and so Oklahoma, in order to
get water out of the main stem, if -- if Texas were to
do that, it would have to go into Oklahoma. And -- and
in fact, this is in response to -- in part to what -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you say entirely
within Oklahoma, just because of ownership of the banks?
MR. ROTHFELD: Because -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- or because of there's
also some intervening property between Texas and the
bank that Oklahoma owns?
MR. ROTHFELD: The -- the border between
Oklahoma and Texas is the south vegetation line of the
Red River, so therefore it is out of the river past the
bank to the vegetation line. So in order to get water
out of the main stem, Oklahoma and -- Texas would have
to go into Oklahoma. Now, there is -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do -- do the current laws
prohibit that -
MR. ROTHFELD: Oklahoma's current laws
would, I would think, prevent -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: At any point?
MR. ROTHFELD: At any point, because the
laws that Tarrant is challenging here are laws that are
discriminatory Oklahoma laws that prevent any use of
water originating in Oklahoma outside.
JUSTICE ALITO: When you say Texas has the
right to go into Oklahoma, just -- just think about that
phrase. That's -- that's very striking. I mean, it
sounds like they are going to send in the National Guard
or the Texas Rangers.
MR. ROTHFELD: Right. And that -- if I may,
Justice Alito, that is -- that's a very misleading way
of looking at it. And I think Oklahoma's brief suggests
that the Texas Rangers are going to descend on Tulsa
and seize the water. That is not what -- what is
contemplated.
JUSTICE ALITO: But you were saying that
Oklahoma -- that Texas has the right to force Oklahoma
to take private property in Oklahoma by eminent
domain if necessary.
MR. ROTHFELD: No, I -- there is an -- there
is an Oklahoma statute that says in order to -- someone
who has a permit to obtain water can exercise eminent
domain. An Oklahoma person can do this. A Texas person
can do this.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How does -- how does
Oklahoma apply its law in this situation? I assume
there is normal priorities and they will get
applications from a lot of people. But they have to -
what do they have to give Texas? Up to 25 percent?
I mean, they can't just say -- deny it,
because another Oklahoma user has priority, or all this.
How does that fit in with the existing administrative
structure?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, Oklahoma cannot use
more than 25 percent of the water within the subbasin.
I think that our friends concede that, because the
language of the Compact says no State is entitled to
more than 25 percent.
Within each State's 25 percent allocation, a
resident water user of the State will apply to the
Oklahoma -- if they are seeking to take their water from
Oklahoma, it will apply to the Oklahoma Water Resources
Board, which will assess that permit precisely as it
assesses permits from Oklahoma residents.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it's got to give
Texas at least up to its 25 percent, right?
MR. ROTHFELD: If -- if there is a request
for that much water from a Texas user, and the Texas
user has priority as a permit applicant against others
who are seeking to take water from this particular -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess what I'm
asking is, does the Compact give Texas special priority
apart from what Oklahoma -- Oklahoma's priorities would
be?
MR. ROTHFELD: No, it does not. It's -
all -- all the Compact says is that Texas is entitled to
take water from within the subbasin, its 25 percent.
Now when it applies in a particular place, as Tarrant
has done here, it's going to apply -- be consistent with
the Oklahoma Water Resources Board permit application
policies, as it has done.
The resources board will assess that permit
application just as it would assess an application
from -
JUSTICE KAGAN: And what does that mean
exactly? What would Oklahoma do to evaluate that
application and to compare it to other applications from
Oklahomans, and also maybe to compare it -- maybe there
is more than one Texas application.
How does the Oklahoma board make those
decisions?
MR. ROTHFELD: It -- a permit applicant
submits an application, which has to demonstrate that it
satisfies the standards for obtaining the water. That
will be assessed on its merits by the Water Resources
Board.
If there are competing applications for the
same water, then it's -- it's done in the terms of
priority -- of -
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm really asking you to
tell me what the Oklahoma board is going to do. I mean,
why doesn't the Oklahoma board just say, you know,
sorry, we like Oklahomans? Would that be all right?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, that is their current
policy. That would not be all right.
JUSTICE KAGAN: What -- what -- what
different kind of priorities do they have to use, and
why do they have to use them, as I think -- somewhere
along the lines of what the Chief Justice was asking?
MR. ROTHFELD: I suppose there -- there are
two points there. One is, if there is enough water to
go around for everyone, as in fact there is, then they
simply assess it in terms of priority in time. Whoever
makes the first application will get it.
However, Oklahoma can only get -- use
25 percent of the water. And therefore, Texas has the
right, so long as there is water available and Texas has
not used its 25 percent of the subbasin water, Texas has
the right to seek that anywhere it can get it in the
subbasin.
If I may, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. O'Connell.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANN O'CONNELL,
FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MS. O'CONNELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The court of appeals concluded that Oklahoma
may categorically foreclose Texas water users from
accessing Reach II Subbasin 5 water in Oklahoma, and the
court reached that conclusion for reasons that in the
view of the United States are wrong.
First, the court of appeals erred in
applying a presumption against preemption to determine
whether the challenged Oklahoma laws conflict with the
Compact. The rationale for that presumption where it
has been applied is one of federalism, but the States
themselves created the terms of the interstate Compact,
and respect for the States as sovereigns in that context
requires enforcement of the Compact according to its
terms.
Second, the court of appeals relied on
general Compact provisions to conclude that the Compact
gives States unrestricted authority to regulate the
water within their boundaries. But the general
provisions of the Compact make clear that a State's
regulation of water has to be consistent with the
allocations made under the Compact, and each State's
obligations under the Compact.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I -- I am not quite
sure I agree with your reading of the court of appeals'
opinion. It seems to me the court of appeals' opinion
is consistent with the Respondents' argument that they
looked at the terms of the Compact.
And it seems to me that you may be right
that the Compact either says you get the water or you
don't, and the dormant Commerce Clause is just
irrelevant. But I read the opinion of the court of
appeals as being quite consistent with that proposition.
You win or you lose, up or down, under the Compact. The
dormant Commerce Clause doesn't -- just doesn't have
much to do with it.
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, we agree with that.
We don't think that the dormant Commerce Clause comes
into play here. We think that whether Texas can access
the water in Oklahoma through the Oklahoma permitting
process depends entirely on whether the Compact gives
them that right or not.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's the way I
read the analytic approach of the court of appeals at
39A, when it starts talking about the point of --
Section 5.05.
MS. O'CONNELL: Right. And we don't
disagree with that, that the -- that the commerce clause
shouldn't come into play here.
Where we disagree with the Court of Appeals
is with the Court of Appeals' conclusion that,
regardless of whether a State law would frustrate the
purpose or pose an obstacle to a State obtaining its
share of water under the Compact, that that State law
should prevail under the Compact. So the Compact makes
clear that those general provisions preserving State
water law need to be consistent with each State's
obligations under the Compact.
And if I could -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, where, if
you're relying on the Compact and its language, where do
you come up with this idea that States first have to try
to get their 25 percent from water within their borders?
I don't see that anywhere.
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, first of all, we think
that that's an issue that, if the Court decided that -
that there are errors in the court of appeals opinion
that should be corrected, we think that's something the
court of -- that the lower courts could consider on
remand.
But I'll tell you where it comes from, which
is Sections 2.01 and 2.10(a) of the Compact, which
preserve the application of State water law. Section
2.01 says that, "Each State may freely administer water
rights and uses in accordance with the laws of that
State, but that such -- such uses shall be subject to
the availability of water in accordance with the
Compact."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it seems to me
that you like some provisions of State law, but not
others.
MS. O'CONNELL: No. What we're saying is
that if there's a State law that conflicts with the
allocation or poses an obstacle to the allocation of
water under the Compact, then it's preempted.
But, for example, if Texas could access
25 percent of the water from within its State, then
the -- the application of a State law that would bar
Texas water users from obtaining a portion of its water
in Oklahoma wouldn't necessarily be preempted, because
it wouldn't pose an obstacle to the allocation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you do -
what do you do with a situation -- let's say there's
Oklahoma water available to Tarrant that is closer than
the water they would get from somewhere else in Texas.
Do they have to incur the additional expense to get
Texas water, or can they take the cheaper route and get
Oklahoma water?
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, we think -- again, we
think this is a -- an issue for the court of -- for the
lower courts to look at on remand, but we think there's
a -- there's a good argument to be made that, so long as
Texas could access 25 percent of the water within its
boundaries, then application of an Oklahoma law that
would prohibit Texas from going through the Oklahoma
permitting process wouldn't necessarily be preempted.
And again, we -- these -- these -- there are
lots of issues, as we point out in our brief and we did
at the invitation stage, that would need to be
addressed, perhaps, in further proceedings or perhaps
before the -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. O'Connell, isn't that a
reason why we shouldn't accept your basic view? I mean,
if -- if you think of all the issues that you laid out
that are going to have to be decided and the difficulty
of those issues -- I mean, you read this brief that you
submitted, it gives you kind of a headache. That -
that -- you know, and it -- it suggests how difficult
the process is.
And then you look at this provision, and
maybe this provision can be read as an entitlement, but
it can just as easily, as -- as Justice Breyer
suggested, be read as a cap, "no more than 25 percent."
So as between those two possible readings,
the complexity of your way of reading this, which would
have -- why?
MS. O'CONNELL: Justice Kagan, I'd like to,
if I could, go to the second point, which is on the -
the -- whether you read this as a 25 percent entitlement
or a cap, and I would like to point the Court, not just
to the language of the Compact, which we think weighs in
favor of the idea that each right -- each State has an
equal right and that the -- the equal right to use the
water in the subbasin implies an equal right, not just
an opportunity.
But the interpretive comments that follow
Section 5.05(b) -- this is at page 30 of the is Joint
Appendix -- refer to a "right." The first full
paragraph there says, "When the flows" -- I'm sorry;
it's the -- the second line. "If the States have
competing uses and the amount of water available in
excess of 3,000 cubic feet per second cannot satisfy all
such uses, each State will honor the other State's right
to 25 percent of the excess flow."
The Red River Compact Commission also
approved rules and regulations, and those say -- they're
on page, I think, 19 of the Joint Appendix. I might
have that page -- yeah, I have that page wrong.
But the -- the Red River Compact
Commission's rules and regulations say that when the
flow is above 12,000 cubic feet per second, so that
Louisiana could get its 3,000 cubic feet per second,
"each of the signatory States shall be entitled to
25 percent of the total runoff in undesignated flow."
So I think it -- it's pretty clear that
based on the -- both the text of the Compact and the
interpretive comments in the rules that the Red River
Compact Commission came up with, that there is not just
that you can take whatever is in your borders even if
that doesn't amount to 25 percent, but -- but that each
State is entitled to 25 percent of the water, and that
if that involves going into another State within this
geographic area that's not defined with respect to State
boundaries, then that is permissible under the Compact.
And as the Petitioner pointed out, when the
States wanted to impose a State boundary restriction in
the Compact, they did so. There are several subbasins
that span more than one geographic -- or more than one
State, and the Compact in those provisions says that you
can take whatever you want within your boundaries.
And I also don't think that this is going to
be particularly troublesome to administer. I mean,
there may need to be some further proceedings on that,
but Oklahoma law provides the backdrop for what would
happen when a Texas water user goes in to -- to ask for
a permit to appropriate and divert water from within
Oklahoma.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And what does that mean?
What would Oklahoma do?
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, the Oklahoma Water
Resources Board would just apply its normal procedures
and laws to determine whether this particular use of
water could be put to beneficial use. If -- they would
just apply whatever laws they would apply to any
applicant, regardless of whether they are from Texas or
Oklahoma.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, people keep on saying
that, and I -- I guess I just still don't understand
quite what it means.
MS. O'CONNELL: Well -
JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, let's say Oklahoma,
the board is sitting there and it gets lots of
applications from Oklahoma users. And let's say it also
gets multiple applications from Texas users. That it's
not just one county, it's four counties. What does
Oklahoma do to -- to decide who gets the water?
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, I think just as -- as
Petitioner's counsel pointed out, there's a -- a
priority in water law, where whoever submits the
application first would -- would get the water if it's
available and they can put it to beneficial use.
And I -- and I -- the Court shouldn't be
concerned. I know all -- I know there are amicus briefs
submitted by other Texas entities that would like to
have water from this particular subbasin as well.
They're all part of the same Region C, and they -- I
think they have some way to work it out. It's not like
they -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I don't understand
your answer. If -- if you're correct, wouldn't the
Oklahoma board have to give priority to the Texas
applicants in order to make sure that Texas got its
share of the water? It couldn't just treat -- it
couldn't just be indifferent as to whether it was an
Oklahoma or Texas applicant.
MS. O'CONNELL: That -- true, to the extent
that Texas was not receiving its water. I mean,
under -- under our theory, which we think could be
developed more in the lower courts, if Texas was already
receiving 25 percent of the water, then Oklahoma would
not have to give it any kind of special priority. But
if it -- if it was not, then the Oklahoma Water
Resources Board would treat it just like an Oklahoma
applicant.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it correct that -- that
there are reservoirs in Texas that flow into -- from
which water is released into the Red River?
MS. O'CONNELL: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. And -
MS. O'CONNELL: And in Oklahoma as well.
JUSTICE ALITO: And what if Texas didn't -
what if Texas could get -- could -- could release that
water and increase the flow of the river, but it chose
not to do so, so it could take other water out of the
river?
MS. O'CONNELL: This -- this is the last
point made in the Respondent's brief -
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes.
MS. O'CONNELL: -- and -- and the response
to that would just be that all of the States would have
the opportunity to do that. In fact, the whole subbasin
is defined by the last major dam site on the tributaries
that are running in. So Oklahoma could do the same
thing.
And also, when the reservoirs are full,
they're full. It's not like Texas could keep all of the
water that's -- that's there from flowing into the
bottom portion of that tributary.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, we're only
considering the instance where there isn't enough water
to meet the 25 percent in Texas. And in that instance,
I guess there are 50,000 places, not just in Oklahoma,
but also in Arkansas, where they might get some. And
all my question, and I think that was being asked, is
there anything else you want to say as to why that's an
easy matter to decide?
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, I -- it's -- we don't
think it needs to be decided in this particular
proceeding. I think there are two errors that the court
of appeals made in applying a presumption against
preemption and in concluding that a Texas water user
could never divert water from outside of its State.
Those could be developed -- those additional problems
could be dealt with by the Oklahoma Water Resources
Board or as you said, perhaps in the original action.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Blatt?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MS. BLATT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
If I could just address two sort of factual
questions.
Under the -- the actual Red River Boundary
Compact, the lawyer for Tarrant was wrong. There's
actually a strip called Shawnee Creek, from the Denison
Dam to the Shawnee Creek, that actually belongs to
Texas. So there's a piece of the Red River in this very
subbasin that is -- it's in the express Boundary
Compact.
Moreover, all of the Red River and Lake
Texoma that is in Texas is part of the main stem, and
that is not only in the land of Texas, Texas users draw
water, quite a lot of water, from Lake Texoma. So
that's two places on the main stem.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are they licensed?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So I'm sure -- you're -
you're saying that the State of Texas can take water
directly from the main stem?
MS. BLATT: It can and does.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's my point, yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Anywhere close to of
the 25 percent they claim entitlement to?
MS. BLATT: Well, who knows?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I was hoping you
did.
(Laughter.)
MS. BLATT: Who knows? Texas has more than
a dozen fresh tributaries running from Subbasin 2 and
Subbasin 4.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm talking about
Subbasin 5.
MS. BLATT: Subbasin 5, these are all -
excuse me -- these are tributaries that run into
Subbasin 5. There is more than a dozen tributaries in
Subbasin 5.
For 30 years no one has ever kept track of
any kind of accounting whatsoever, so when we say "who
knows?" that is the way the drafters -- it's not only
the way the drafters intended, but that has been the
state of play for 30 years.
So nobody -- and in the laws of Louisiana
and Arkansas don't even track diversions. So -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just to be clear, in your
view, Texas can, without going on Oklahoma property,
take water from the main stem in Basin 5?
MS. BLATT: In Subbasin 5, there is only up
from Denison Dam east to Shawnee Creek. So that's just
anywhere from a half a mile to three-quarters. It runs
from the -- from the middle of the channel.
East -- excuse me, west is Lake Texoma, and
if you want to look at the map, it's a big old lake.
That is a lot of water. And they definitely do take -
and that's in the brief -- they take lots of water from
that lake from the Texas side.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But my question was, can
they take it from the main stem -
MS. BLATT: Only in that -- that little slip
of land to Shawnee Creek. It's -- it's a part of
Texas -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that the part that,
under their allegation at least, is saline?
MS. BLATT: Well, again, they drink the
water in Subbasin 5.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. Is that the
part that -
MS. BLATT: Yes. They think -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- they are referring
to -
MS. BLATT: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- when they say it's too
saline?
MS. BLATT: Yes. They think all the water
that their residents drink is salty, but they still are
drinking it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Texans.
MS. BLATT: They're drinking it. In fact,
they're -- footnote 3 and footnote 4, their water
planning documents, say this is a -- quite a -- a
drinkable source of water.
JUSTICE SCALIA: When they -
MS. BLATT: I understand they think it's
salty, but they drink it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: When they take water from
the main stream of the Red River, how do they know how
much of that water is from Reach V?
MS. BLATT: Well, the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: They are -- they are
entitled to -- to no more than 25 percent from Reach V.
Is everything that -- that comes into Texas in the main
channel of the Red River water from Reach V?
MS. BLATT: So if you look at the -- if you
look at the map in the red brief that's got all the -
the colors, and the pink is Subbasin 5. So where they
divert water from is all up and down those blue
tributaries that are in pink south of the Red River.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now what page are you
looking at?
MS. BLATT: This is 33A -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah, okay.
MS. BLATT: -- this map.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I didn't
know -
MS. BLATT: So they -- and then if you look
at that -- that blue lake that looks like a dragon, that
is also where they are -- they are taking water.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -
MS. BLATT: That just happens to be in Reach
I.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Reach I. Okay.
MS. BLATT: But their water planning
documents show that all the water in the pink on the
Texas side is a very valuable source of drinking water.
And if you see, all the way down to Lake Texarkana, they
can -- they are taking that water, too.
And when we say about what we know, no one
has ever done any accounting because the Equal Rights
Clause has always been read as equal rights to the use
of the water without prejudice to or from each other's
State, and, in that sense, it means that if one State
took an earlier use of the water, it wouldn't gain a
priority indefinitely over the other States.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it never -- it
never says that. I mean, that's why we have a case. It
never says it has to be from your State.
And I appreciate your -- the focus in your
argument on State sovereignty, but this is an interstate
Compact. And the whole point of interstate compacts is
that we have to -- each State has to give up a little
here or a little there to solve a problem.
So I -- I guess it's -- I don't know why
these basic principles of State sovereignty apply in the
context of an interstate compact.
MS. BLATT: Right. I mean, it is our
position that the States would have never agreed to this
extraordinary right without an -- an unequivocal
explicit statement.
But I do think it is absolutely critical to
understand that what they are asking for is
unprecedented, Mr. Chief Justice. There has never been
a cross-border diversion -- ever -- under any State
water compact. And the two examples they cite in their
reply brief are inexplicable -- absolutely inexplicable.
They cite the Niobrara Compact with no cite. They -
they cite the Compact, but they never say there has been
a cross-border diversion.
And if you look on the map -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Say that again, because
we have a green brief that gives us samples of
provisions for cross border.
MS. BLATT: Yeah, under explicit right.
There has never been a cross-border diversion without an
explicit statement. Not only -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because there have been
many, many -
MS. BLATT: Many with explicit statements
and then the essential bells and whistles as to eminent
domain, points of diversion, and which choice of law.
And what they tried to say, because we have
been saying all along how unprecedented this would be to
sort of read in silence on borders, they tried to come
up with two examples in their reply brief.
And that's what I'm talking about. The
reply brief is not only -- is devoid of a citation, but
Nebraska and Wyoming told both us, and Wyoming told
Tarrant's counsel, that there have never been
diversions. And Nebraska was quite -- like, "Wow, we
hadn't known that." And it shows the danger of their
position. They think if it's silent as to borders, the
State of Wyoming can go hundreds of miles into Nebraska
and take the water across the border.
The other example they cite is fascinating
because it's a lawsuit before you. They cite the Rio
Grande Compact as a basis of saying El Paso can walk
into New Mexico, but their lawsuit to you is based on
the notion that Texas can't go into New Mexico. It's
New Mexico has a downstream delivery. So -
JUSTICE BREYER: But there was a point, it
seems to me, to favor them, which is go back to 1970 -
the '70s, when they drafted this.
MS. BLATT: I'm there.
JUSTICE BREYER: So they are in the room,
and there are representatives of all four States, and as
they argue, there is going to be more than 3,000 feet,
what happens? And Louisiana would say, we want at least
25 percent; done. Arkansas, 25 percent; done.
Oklahoma, same; done. Texas, same; done.
But everybody in the room knows that Texas
could never get more than 12 percent within its borders.
And since it could never get 12 -- more than 12 percent,
Louisiana would be sitting there with not really
25 percent but with 38. And so -- so -- - - - - -
MS. BLATT: But with all due -- sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- that would suggest that,
hey, no, they all knew this and so they meant there must
be some way for Texas to get the extra; otherwise, why
were they saying 25 percent for Texas? If -
MS. BLATT: Justice Breyer. Justice Breyer.
It's just not true. What they cite to is a 1970
engineering report -
JUSTICE BREYER: You know, this is an
example I made up, because I think -
MS. BLATT: Oh. Well, the -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- an imaginary
conversation.
MS. BLATT: Oh.
JUSTICE BREYER: But if in an imaginary
conversation -
MS. BLATT: Well, okay. 34 percent of the
watershed is in Texas, so there is no reason to think
anyone thought Texas couldn't get its share.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why?
MS. BLATT: There's no -- because there's no
evidence there was any discussion about any State and
whether -- Texas never complained. No one ever said
Texas couldn't get its water.
JUSTICE BREYER: Wouldn't that be a fairly
easy thing to check going back to 1970 -
MS. BLATT: If you -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- to found out whether,
you know, Texas was just on some little salt flat -
MS. BLATT: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- near the river and -
MS. BLATT: We did. They did in their
brief, and they came up with an 11 to 16 percent. Our
engineers ran the numbers after correcting their
three-series method -- methodological errors, and we
came up with 29 percent.
They -- they double-counted streams. They
forgot that Subbasin 5 is not only runoff but also rain.
And then -- this one's humorous -- they didn't count the
excess. So all the -- all the math that they did
favored Texas, so the math didn't come out that way.
But what's interesting about the Tarrant's
view in juxtaposing with the United States' view,
Tarrant's view is it could have all the water, but they
could get all of it still from Oklahoma. So Louisiana,
Arkansas, and -- and Texas could come take all their
share from Oklahoma, forcing Oklahoma to have to go
south.
Now the United States' view, and this is
I -- they read a border limitation in there. They say,
"Look, borders are here, but if Texas really needs it,
you got to let them come in." That -- that's the United
States.
They definitely -- which I don't understand
their reliance on the Russello principle, because they
read borders into this. Texas has actually disavowed
this view. Tarrant's disavowed it. They disavowed it
to the Tenth Circuit when the Tenth Circuit asked for
what their standing would to be to press it. They said,
"We've never claimed this."
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what do you think is
the remedy? Meaning -
MS. BLATT: The remedy?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- let me just posit
the point; okay? I understand your point to the Chief
that there's been no proof that Texas doesn't get its
25 percent or that it couldn't get it from the main stem
or somewhere. I accept that.
But let's, for the hypothetical, say that
there's a major drought and Texas can't get it from its
portion. What's its remedy?
MS. BLATT: Okay. Yeah.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that -- that it's not
getting -
MS. BLATT: Okay.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- 25 percent -
MS. BLATT: Yeah. So let's -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- as the Compact
entitles it to.
MS. BLATT: Okay. It's the last statement.
The Compact no way, no how entitles the parties to equal
25 percent. It just doesn't say equal rights to a
numerical share. It doesn't say equal rights to a
numerical quantity.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It says "shall have
equal rights to the use of runoff originating in
Subbasin 5."
MS. BLATT: Right. And you and I could have
equal rights to the use of the family car or equal
rights to the use of the highway. That doesn't tell me
anything about how many hours I can spend on the
highway.
But here's the problem. The real problem is
with the cap. Okay? Their view is that the first
clause gives you an absolute equal right to a fixed
25 percent; no exceptions. But then you have this
provided clause which does no work for them. The
provided clause, which says you don't get any more than
25 percent, they are saying, "Well, by definition, if
you get exactly 25 percent, the State can take no more
than 25 percent." So they actually just sort of combine
the two.
The other -- I hate to point this out,
because I -- I feel a lot of affinity for the United
States, but their proof -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You feel a lot of
what?
MS. BLATT: Affinity for them.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh.
MS. BLATT: But listen to their proof for
why there's an equal 25 percent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You are representing
Oklahoma.
MS. BLATT: I am, but I used to work for
them.
They say well, we're guaranteed an equal
25 percent share, and they cite the compliance rules on
page 19. And entertainingly so, the rules that they
cite just disprove what they said.
The first rule they cite only gave 3 States.
They divided it by 3 instead of 4. Their view, the
United States' view, is there's a guarantee of
25 percent of any amount that's in excess of 3,000.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, this is a -- a
perfectly legitimate argument for you to make, but I
want to go back to Justice Sotomayor's question.
At least as I understood it, it's this: I
want you to assume -- I know you don't agree with
that -- I want you to assume that the Compact gives
Texas a right to 25 percent of the -- of the excess -
of the water above the cubic foot.
MS. BLATT: The excess, yeah.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I want you to assume that.
Now, wouldn't the Compact be meaningless if Texas
couldn't actually reach that water?
MS. BLATT: That is -- that is the United
States' view, and they'd have to go above it. What they
would have to do, which no one else -- no one has
done -- and I think the drafters thought it was
ultimately impossible because of Arkansas and Louisiana,
is call for an accounting and actually figure out what
the total was, figure out what the excess was, divvy up
the 4 shares, do exactly what Tarrant wants I guess to
happen, which has never happened, and it's not clear to
the drafters of the compliance rules that it could in
fact ever happen because of the riparian laws of
Arkansas and Louisiana.
But -- so in other words, if we lost this
case, which is probably why Tarrant is disavowing the
United States' view, is Texas would be in quite of a
pickle trying to prove they couldn't get their
25 percent. And so I read Tarrant as saying, don't you
dare send us back to try to prove that. We want to be
able to go whole hog into Oklahoma.
And if I could get to the point that Justice
Kagan was talking about, what's on the ground happening,
and why Oklahoma would have never agreed to this type of
cross-border right, because what Tarrant is doing is
exploiting Oklahoma's law, which proceeds on the
assumption that water in Oklahoma is a public trust
that's held for the exclusive benefits of Oklahoma.
And there are three ways where Oklahoma
would not have agreed to this, and it would have been
carefully articulated in a Compact.
The first is prior appropriation. There are
4 Texas entities that have signed up for permits: The
Upper Trinity, the North Texas Municipal Water District,
Irving and Tarrant. And poor Oklahoma City got
sandwiched in the middle. It beat -- it beat Trinity to
the permit office by 24 hours.
And so, not surprisingly, it's open season
for Oklahoma water, all of north Texas has come in and
sought a permit and there's priority.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's the same
problem. Even if you take within State, all of these
people, if they were applying for water in Texas as
well, there'd be the same issue there. One of them
would beat the other one. It's a question of priority.
You're just claiming that everybody from Oklahoma should
have -- well, not absolute priority, but -
MS. BLATT: Well, I have two points. First,
had -- had Oklahoma seen this coming, since they hadn't
heard about this until Tarrant filed its application,
Oklahoma City certainly would have gotten in line
faster. And second of all, the whole point of this
Compact -- and if you think about your equitable
apportionment doctrines, which whoever gets to the water
first gets a prior -- gets a priority permanently -
this was the point of the Compact. Louisiana and
Arkansas wouldn't have to develop their water, Texas and
Oklahoma were much more economically developed States,
and the equal rights prevented a race to the permit
office.
Let me get to the second aspect what's a
problem, and that is, compacts usually spell out the
points of diversion. The last place Oklahoma would have
picked as the point of diversion is the Kiamichi River,
and Tarrant is saying, not surprisingly, it's the most
desirable.
And the third is the eminent domain.
Eminent domain law in Oklahoma proceeds on the
assumption that those are Oklahomans who got the permit,
and thus can exercise a core sovereign power, and
Tarrant, not surprisingly, would like to come in and do
that.
And none of this is happening with the
normal political checks in Oklahoma. Oklahoma can't
vote out of office the Tarrant officials. It cannot
vote out of office the Upper Trinity or the North Texas
Municipal Water District.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Blatt, does Oklahoma
law in any circumstance permit an appropriation of
water -- water in Oklahoma for out-of-State use?
MS. BLATT: Well, it's -- if it's compacted
water, you have to get legislative approval and -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Just here and now, does
Oklahoma ever -
MS. BLATT: Yes, it can.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- permit out-of-State
use of its water?
MS. BLATT: It has not. It could, but
the -- but Tarrant is correct that there are facial
differences with respect to out-of-State. So
out-of-State users would have to get the water going
faster, it's subject to a review. And there's a
statement in there that you need to look and see if
there's a better use for Oklahoma.
Now, I hope you ask them this, because I
gather their view is under the dormant Commerce Clause
is all of those laws are constitutional with respect to
99 percent of the Compact, which is it's allocated to -
to Oklahoma for its free and unrestricted use. So
they're basically saying there's 1 percent of this
Compact that's unconstitutional.
And not only is it 1 percent, the minute it
drops below 3,000, all of a sudden, it became. And on
this, we'd like to talk to the Russello principle. I
also hope you ask them, this is on page 15A of -- 14A of
the 15A brief. There are border references arbitrarily
and they're missing, they're there. It's completely
inconsistent.
And this -- their view would make complete
mincemeat out of 4 other provisions of the Compact. And
ironically, it would march a lot of States into Texas.
But back to (b) -- (b)(2) and 5.05(c) operate identical
in that they're basically downstream delivery, where all
States have to release 40 percent of the water
downstream. So they -- they're the same. They're
absolutely identical.
You hold on to 60, you let 40 percent go.
But only (c) contains that border reference. Only (c)
says "within their respective States." And yet even in
(c), it's completely redundant and unnecessary, because
you can't release water from without your State.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is this? Where is
this? Where is this?
MS. BLATT: This is on page 14A and 15A -
sorry -- of the red brief. So only (c) says within
their respective States, but (b)(2) is the exact same
functioning provision, and it's missing the border
reference. And I -- you don't have time now to ask the
United States' view, but I think the United States would
agree with us that if you give this border thing kind of
the magical meaning, borders kind of appear and
disappear with the water flow, which is very strange.
Tarrant thinks that there's some heretofore
unheard of crediting system, but they don't have an
explanation on how (b)(2) and (c) -- but more
importantly, if you could just turn to 9A for just a
minute, which is 402, I want to walk you through this -
I'm sorry, 401(b). This is a provision that -- this is
water wholly within Texas. And you don't have to
understand much to know that Texas keeps 60, Oklahoma
gets 40.
So you have a big chunk of Texas, and Texas
is allocated 60 and Oklahoma is allocated 40. Now,
under Tarrant's view, because this is silent as to
borders and because Oklahoma is not in this reach, it's
not actually located within the subbasin, Oklahoma
either is entitled to or has to go get all of its water
from Texas. And this pattern repeats itself -- this is
on page 41 of our brief -- throughout the Compact, where
the Compact is silent as to borders, and under their
view -- and their Louisiana view is somewhat
entertaining.
I can't tell if they think Louisiana can go
into Oklahoma or has to move one inch up to the border
to take it out as opposed to just waiting, but under
this view -- and again, it repeats itself throughout the
contract -- the State that's not in the basin, because
there are no borders and because, I guess under their
view, the only way that Oklahoma to get its water would
be to go into Texas, and that's why they're sort of
taking this bit about, oh, this Russello principle, if
it's here, it must mean -- it must have had
significance, would make a complete mess of the Compact.
If I could also just turn to the remand of
the United States. I just wanted to make -- to make
three points. And that is, I do think it is significant
that it's pointed -- it is addressed to a problem that
Texas itself has never asserted. They're saying well,
poor Texas can't get its water. And remember, Texas is
upstream, so this sort of poor Texas is only to Texas.
No other State is going to have this problem because the
rest are downstream.
So this you have to be able to get to your
25 percent is a uniquely pro-Texas provision that
apparently at the same time for 20 years of drafting
history when Texas was trying to buy this water, and the
three States were saying "no way, no how," they either
subconsciously or unconsciously or unintentionally
enacted this provision for Texas's benefit.
JUSTICE BREYER: In Subbasin 1, that's
mostly in Oklahoma, but Texas gets a lot of the water or
the other way around? It looked to me like Subbasin 1's
in Oklahoma.
MS. BLATT: Which reach?
JUSTICE BREYER: Subbasin 1. It says
Subbasin 1.
MS. BLATT: Are you talking about 401?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, 401.
MS. BLATT: Okay. So that's in Reach 1. So
that's on this map -- the next map. So none of it -
it's all within the green, the same with the panhandle
of Texas.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. I get it. I get it.
Anyway -
MS. BLATT: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- because of that and
because during the time when, let's say, there's
5,000 feet of the -- of the 2,000 extra, you know,
Louisiana has to get 500. Okay. How do they know
whether they're getting it? I mean, how -- there must
be some system of measurement going on or how does this
all work?
MS. BLATT: Justice Breyer, you have to
trust me. There has never been an accounting ever,
ever, ever, ever under this Compact.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, so -- - in other
words -
MS. BLATT: No measurements have ever been
taken with respect to this.
JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. So that -- I don't
know how that cuts, because certainly the people who
drew this must have thought at least in those other
provisions they are going to develop a measurement
system in case of controversy.
MS. BLATT: Well, there are gauges. So
they -- I mean, it would not be impossible, although
very expensive. And just so you know, Section 211, and
in the interpretive comments of 211, the State said the
last thing we want is this accounting because it's
expensive and burdensome. And Louisiana and Arkansas,
if you look at the minutes, they are complaining because
their laws are not set up for accounting. They are
riparian States, so they don't track diversions. They
just -- they don't do it.
So this was -- this is -- when you talk
about how this cuts, you have 20 years of silence -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I don't understand
what you just said: They're riparian States, so they
don't track diversions.
MS. BLATT: Okay. So when you comment -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why does that follow?
MS. BLATT: Right. Okay. So in the -- the
Oklahoma and Texas, in their permitting system, what
they permit, they track how much you take under the
permit. They measure.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MS. BLATT: Louisiana, if you are a
landowner, you just draw from the water and it's a -
it's a voluntary reporting system, so you don't
necessarily have to tell the State how much you took
out.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MS. BLATT: So one is a permitting system,
and in Louisiana and Arkansas -- and, I think, again,
the minutes just talk about we hope Louisiana and
Arkansas will develop their laws to do better tracking
of diversions. But again, this would be the problem of
an accounting.
But I -- so in terms of the 20 years of
history, you have complete silence on this, even though,
under our view, it always -
JUSTICE BREYER: The relevant legal
argument, I think, is look at what you just cited to us
about this reach in the subbasin. 60 percent goes to
Texas, 40 percent to Oklahoma.
MS. BLATT: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Now, they've never
measured it. That's because they never fought about it,
I guess. And now we have a fight. So why is it any
easier to develop the necessary measuring system
there -
MS. BLATT: Well -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- than it would be here?
MS. BLATT: -- the -
JUSTICE BREYER: And that argues against you
because your main point, really, is that this is all too
complicated.
MS. BLATT: Justice Breyer, the disaster
would be and the affront to sovereignty is throughout
the Compact, not so much the measuring that's a problem:
Oklahoma would be able to insist on crossing Texas's
borders to draw that 40 percent. And no one has ever,
ever envisioned any of the Compact as not applying
borders. It's not so much the measurement.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought that
was what your -- the other side does envision, that it
doesn't -- it's not bound by the borders but it's bound
by the agreement, the Compact. Compacts compromise the
individual State sovereignty. That's the whole point of
them.
MS. BLATT: Okay. But their view -- I mean,
it is that they have to -- again, our view is that if
they had wanted, like all the other cross- border
rights, to allow for an extraordinary right, they would
have made an explicit statement and then spelled out
exactly what that meant, most importantly the point of
diversion. Here, at most you have silence on the issue.
Now, the Government reads into borders
sometimes, because they say you do have borders unless
there is a need. Under Tarrant's view, which I think is
the most jarring and remarkable view, this is all a
borderless common, and every State could have
criss-crossing pipelines into every State, because you
don't have an exhaustion requirement. So Texas, even
though it's got plenty of water in its fresh water
streams and currently uses them, could take their whole
25 percent from Oklahoma; Oklahoma could take its whole
25 percent from Texas; Arkansas could come into
Oklahoma -- and that's their view of the world.
And I think the United States thought, no,
that doesn't make too much sense. Let's at least make
Texas exhaust.
But the provision -- the Compact doesn't say
this. Again, the United States and Tarrant proceed on
the assumption that there is a numerical share, that
it's equal rights to an exact 25 percent, exact
25 percent. Well, that's not what it says. It just
says equal rights to the use subject to a cap, and we
think a cap by limiting the use is not a guarantee that
you can reach the cap, much less that you can cross
borders to reach the cap.
And if I could just make one more sense -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Blatt, the solicitor
general here today spoke of lots of different examples
where the language of entitlement and rights was used.
Do you have a view as -- as to that?
MS. BLATT: So they -- you mean the two
compliance rules they cited? They cited -- so they
say -- that's what I was saying that was sort of sad is
because what they cited disproved what they were trying
to assert it for.
So if you -- you don't even have to read
the -- you don't even have to read the compliance rules.
Just read page 19 of their brief. They say in the same
sentence that we have an equal -- there's an equal right
to one-fourth of an excess above 3,000. So that means
you take whatever is above 3,000 and divide by four
equally. And then they cite a provision that only
divides by 3. And then the next provision they cite
didn't divide the excess, it divided the total water.
I don't know why they -- it's inexplicable.
I can't tell you why they did that.
And the only other thing I want to say on
the extrinsic evidence, and I do think -- if you think
there's any ambiguity in here, which I think there
clearly is, you have 30 years of post ratification,
which the States immediately did long-term water
planning without so mentioning of this right. And
Tarrant actually offered to buy the same water for
$1.7 billion in 2002, which is a little bit inconsistent
with the notion that they had this right all along.
They just, in 18 months of negotiating history, never
mentioned that they thought they owned the water, they
were actually offering to pay 1.7 million. And the
amicus brief filed by the Tribes, on page 4, says we
were at the negotiating table and we never heard Tarrant
mention this right.
And the other thing, I do think the water
planning documents are highly significant because not so
much Louisiana and Arkansas, but Oklahoma and Texas take
water planning very seriously because of their prior
appropriation systems. There are hundreds of thousands
of pages on the Internet and none of them mention this
right. Again, they cited something in their reply
brief, but if you go look at it, it doesn't come close
to mentioning a right of Subbasin 5. Again, ironically
it mentioned a portion of Oklahoma where Texas would
have to actually buy the water.
We'd ask you to affirm. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Rothfeld, you have four minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
A couple of points. First, my friend, Ms.
Blatt, said that it would make mincemeat and a complete
mess out of the Compact to apply its terms as they were
written. We think that this Compact was negotiated over
a period of 25 years. If you look at the Joint
Appendix, you will very painfully see that there are
reams and reams of commentary on the -- on the
negotiations.
I think the Court has to assume that when
the drafters of the Compact used language and referred
to State lines in one place and not in another place,
they had some idea of what they were doing and they made
these different choices intentionally. So I think the
Court simply should read the terms of the Compact -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how do you deal with
all the provisions she was mentioning with respect to
the 60/40 division? I can't make rhyme or reason of
those provisions that don't use within State boundaries,
but it has to mean that.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I don't think that it
has to mean that. If Oklahoma wants to enter Texas to
take -- if it makes more sense for them to do it, they
can. If not, they can just wait for the water to flow
down.
I think one thing which -- which Ms. Blatt
did not address is the practicalities of how Subbasin 5
operates. If you look at the map that was pointed out
to you, Subbasin 5, which is what we're talking about
here, is a very wide -- hundreds of miles wide, but
extremely narrow. It's 10 to 20 miles wide -- north to
south for most of its length.
The reason the drafters drew this is because
the States all take -- the assumption was all of the
water in this Subbasin was going to be surplus water,
literally excess water. The States all take the water
that they want to use outside of Subbasin 5, and so
the -- the allocations that Ms. Blatt was referring to
by Oklahoma are all in Subbasin 1; they are not in
Subbasin 5. The water that flows into Subbasin 5 is
water that the States assumed was going to be surplus.
And so it would make no sense, having divided this water
evenly between the compacting States, to think that the
drafters would have required a water user in Texas at
the far west end, which would get its portion of the
25 percent share two miles across the border in
Oklahoma, instead to have to go 200 miles to the east to
get it out of Texas.
That is not what the drafters intended to
accomplish by this. They created, by the plain terms of
the -- of the language, a common pool of water defined
by dam site, not by State line, and gave each State
equal rights to access that water so long as they did
not use more than 25 percent.
Your response to a question which was raised
by Justice Kagan both to me and Ms. Blatt, I think the
practical application of this is very simple. One
simply has to apply to the permitting authorities,
wherever you're submitting your application from, they
will apply their ordinary standards. Oklahoma Water
Resources Board does that now for applications from
within Oklahoma; it can do it just as well for
applications from Texas or other from other States.
And, again, the practicality of this is,
water users are going to want to use water as close to
where they are located as they can. They're going to go
right across the State line within Subbasin 5 if that's
the place to get the water. It makes no sense to
require them to go hundreds of miles distant to get it.
Ms. Blatt suggested that we are reading the
25 percent limitation out of the Compact. I think her
reading reads the equal rights language out of the
Compact. They read the Subbasin 5 language as being all
capped and no entitlement. It does two things: It
gives equal rights to the water, and then says that you
can't take more than 25 percent within your State. So
it's designed to do two things. It's designed to give
you an entitlement and to say you can only use
25 percent of it.
And finally, Ms. Blatt raised questions of
sovereignty and political concern. As the Chief Justice
suggested, this is a Compact that's an agreement between
coordinate sovereigns. They have decided what they want
to do. And the thing that gives respect to sovereignty
is to read the plain language of the Compact as the
framers wrote it. Again, they spent 25 years writing
it. They took considerable care, as you can tell if you
look at the negotiating history, in using the words for
each provision. Those words should be given meaning.
If there are no further questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:08 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
allocated 45:22 26:4 43:24 53:22 55:24 bargain 3:14
60:7 allocates 4:6 applications 5:21 35:24
21:13,13,20 25:22,23 58:24 asked 28:8 38:24 basically 45:24
46:15 58:1 applied 18:15 17:2,11 34:13 basin 4:3,3,16
allowed 3:12 apply 11:22,23 assert 54:20 basis 35:23
22:7 ambiguity 9:12 15:12,14 16:6 assess 15:15 behalf 1:15,20
55:9 25:10,13,13 16:9,10 17:15 2:4,11,14 3:8
58:13 amount 5:23 applying 12:5 Assistant 1:17 belongs 7:15
42:7 50:3 41:14 43:17 52:22 41:19,20,24 beneficial 25:12
51:22 analytic 19:23 apportionment 56:23 26:5
26:14 appropriate 25:5 57:22 51:20
apart 15:25 43:6 45:3 56:1 58:21 billion 55:14
appeals 18:6,11 approved 23:25 18:22 Blatt 1:20 2:10
19:23 20:4,5,21 arbitrarily 46:5 available 17:19 29:19,23 30:2,7
11:7 15:4 appear 3:20 47:5 areas 4:3,5 8:8 26:5 31:16,19,22
2:2,5,9,12 3:4,7 b 46:11,11,25 35:5 36:5,17,22
47:4
56:20 19:6 22:6 28:22 back 3:14 10:23 37:21,23 39:4
42:23 43:4
16:19 56:12 36:3 37:17 40:4,24 41:1,5
26:19 arising 11:2,3 41:17 42:19 41:23 42:2
Arkansas 4:1 46:11 43:22 45:2,5,9
27:4,8,10
36:10 38:12 13:15 50:2,7,14 51:4
52:5 52:17 checks 44:23 close 29:21 56:4 44:2,5 45:22,25
brief 3:21 5:15 Chief 3:3,9 14:22 59:3 46:9 47:23,24
54:12,16 14:9 22:12,20 15:17,23 17:11 closer 21:23 48:12 50:4
57:14 27:16 31:3 17:23,24 18:4 closest 11:17 52:19,22 53:2
59:8,18 32:17 34:17,23 20:14 21:8,21 colors 32:18 54:2 56:17,18
46:5,24 47:23 29:21,24 30:5 come 9:6,23 20:3 59:11,20,23
16:7,9,17 56:4 34:14 39:6 38:7,12,18 compacting 4:13
17:3,4 briefs 26:7 40:22,25 41:3 43:13 44:20 5:3 58:6
26:15 burdensome 43:15 52:24 53:22 56:4 compacts 4:18
28:19 50:19 56:9,14 59:19 comes 19:17 8:1 34:2 44:11
buy 48:25 55:13 60:4 20:25 32:14 53:2
13:12 choices 57:2 comment 51:4 16:15
35:20 C chose 27:12 commentary compelled 10:10
46:5,17 c 2:1 3:1 26:10 chunk 47:16 56:21 compels 10:17
48:3 46:17,17,19,24 Circuit 38:24,24 comments 23:15 10:18
58:9 47:9 circumstance 24:11 50:17 competing 16:24
35:10,18 cap 23:2,9 40:10 34:19 35:21,22 Commission complaining
38:17,22 54:7,8,9,10 36:23 41:8,10 23:24 24:12 50:20
48:7 capped 59:12 41:11 55:2,3 Commission's complete 46:8
53:1 car 40:5 cited 8:2 52:2 24:4 48:12 51:24
54:10 care 59:25 54:17,17,19 common 53:16 56:16
9:18 11:2 60:5,6 claimed 39:1 4:3,5,9,10,20 complexity 23:4
22:8 categorically claiming 43:20 5:4 7:1 9:14,15 compliance 41:8
57:7 18:7 clause 4:22 10:13,17 15:9 42:11 54:17,22
50:10 20:2 33:17 18:14,16,18,21 52:16
7:9,23 8:6 challenging 45:20 19:7,9,13,20 concede 15:8
10:23 12:2 13:24 clear 5:3 18:24 20:8,9,9,12,15 concern 59:19
28:3 36:2 channel 30:24 20:10 24:9 21:1,7,14 23:10 concerned 26:7
32:15 30:18 42:10 23:24 24:3,10 conclude 18:21
37:3,6,11 CHARLES 1:15 clearer 4:20 24:12,18,21,23 concluded 18:6
2:3,13 3:7 clearly 11:11 29:4,9 34:2,7 concluding 28:15
56:12 55:10 34:16,18,19 conclusion 18:9
50:2,5,9 cheaper 22:1 CLEMENT 5:14 35:23 39:19,22 20:5
check 37:17 cliffs 6:6 41:20,25 43:5 conflict 18:13
created 8:25 38:20 13:25 dragon 33:4
16:6 crediting 47:8 46:12 disproved 54:19 drawn 4:14
19:6,12 Creek 29:5,6 demonstrate disregard 3:17 drew 50:11 57:21
30:22 31:8 16:20 distant 59:7 drink 31:12,23
53:17 30:22 12:5 43:8 45:1 drinkable 32:4
53:7 54:9 depends 19:20 44:12,13 53:11 drops 46:2
34:7 cross-border 8:3 describes 3:21 35:16 50:22 due 36:17
curiae 1:19 2:7 details 8:5 divided 41:12 earlier 33:20
current 13:18,20 18:12 25:11 divides 4:3 55:3 easily 23:1
27:4 developed 26:23 documents 32:3 economically
D 28:17 44:7 33:11 55:23 44:7
28:20 30:22 58:15 different 3:23 14:16,20 35:7 eminent 12:17
56:9 60:4 danger 35:17 4:11 7:5,19,20 44:16,17 14:15,19 35:6
decided 20:20 29:18 downstream 8:25 36:24
18:5,6,9,11 22:19 28:12 disagree 6:8 20:2 36:1 46:12,14 engineers 37:25
19:4,5,11 59:21 20:4 48:21 enormous 11:7
20:4,5,20 decisions 16:18 disappear 47:6 dozen 30:3,9 enter 57:10
22:4 defined 5:5,5 disaster 52:17 drafted 36:4 entertaining 48:1
26:6 28:13 8:23,24 24:17 disavowed 38:22 drafters 9:14 entertainingly
56:23 27:21 58:14 38:23,23 30:13,14 42:5 41:9
53:10 9:15 13:5 17:14 force 14:14 gives 18:22
9:16 examples 34:16 factual 13:1 29:1 forgot 38:4 41:20 59:13,22
16:3 24:7 35:11 54:13 fairly 37:16 fought 52:7 go 6:22 7:10 9:23
32:13 exceptions 40:12 family 40:5 found 37:19 10:21,23 11:10
excess 5:22 far 58:8 four 4:13 5:3,25 11:18,18,19
23:8 41:14,21,23 faster 44:1 45:16 36:7 55:1 56:10 14:3 17:14 23:7
54:14 42:8 54:25 55:4 favor 23:11 36:3 framers 9:19 35:19,25 36:3
57:24 favored 38:7 59:24 38:13 41:17
8:22 9:2 exercise 12:17 49:22 friends 15:8 goes 7:18 25:4
11:1,1 14:19 44:19 fight 10:25 52:8 frustrate 20:6 52:3
23:12,12 exhaust 54:1 figure 42:7,8 full 23:17 27:24 going 4:24,24
33:16,17 exhaustion 53:18 filed 43:24 55:19 27:25 7:10,11,13,15
existing 15:4 filled 4:25 functioning 47:1 7:20 9:25 10:6
expense 21:25 finally 59:18 further 22:14 10:25 11:16,18
44:8 expensive 50:16 Fine 8:6 50:9 25:2 60:3 11:18,19 12:1,4
50:19 finish 9:10 11:13 12:23 14:5,10
59:10,13 explanation 47:9 first 6:15 7:8 8:1 G 16:6 17:3 22:9
38:1 8:7 56:15 18:21,23 20:10 58:4 59:3,4
26:20 fixed 40:11 geographic gotten 43:25
extrinsic 55:8 flows 10:14 35:3 45:2,7,10 ground 42:22
F focus 33:25 give 3:20 4:18 54:8
54:5,5 facial 45:13 follow 23:15 51:5 26:15,25 34:3 Guard 14:5
28:6 34:5 II 18:8 irrelevant 19:11 40:25 41:3,15 L
48:7 52:8 imaginary 37:3,6 Irving 43:9 41:17,24 42:21 laid 22:18
47:10 53:10 issues 22:12,18 51:16 52:1,6,12 landowner 51:12
50:15 J 57:4 58:19 5:11,12,24 6:4
36:9 includes 4:12 job 7:6,8 juxtaposing 38:9 9:13,19 10:1,10
20:15
indefinitely 3:9 4:17 5:11 23:6 25:7,16,20 59:10,11,23
individual 53:3 10:23 11:14,21 keeps 47:14 20:6,8,11 21:2
55:16 intended 30:14 16:12 17:2,8,11 31:14,17,20 laws 13:18,20,24
58:12 17:23,24 18:4 41:15,24 13:24,25 18:13
Internet 56:2 27:4,8,10,17 30:12 47:4,5 lawsuit 35:22,24
57:18 59:7 50:17 31:20,25 32:5,8 26:7,7 32:9 legitimate 41:16
34:1,2,7 33:1,6,9,22 36:25 37:20 let's 11:10 21:22
39:18 49:21
involves 24:16 37:11,16,19,22 known 35:17 licensed 29:15
56:5 39:19 40:1,22 30:2,13 36:12 limitation 38:16
38:11 42:6,13 measured 52:7 Municipal 43:8 39:25 54:4
13:13,15 51:11,18,19 52:23 N O 2:1 3:1
43:25 55:24 measurements N 2:1,1 3:1 obligations 19:2
59:5 Louisiana's 50:7 narrow 57:19 20:12
17:11 lower 20:23 22:5 52:9,19 near 37:22 21:13,20
26:23 mechanism 6:24 Nebraska 35:14 obtain 12:16
M meet 28:5 necessarily obtaining 16:21
34:3,4 29:18 30:20 56:6 52:9 office 43:11 44:9
55:14 31:6 32:9,14 mentioning need 20:11 22:13 44:24,25
59:4 major 27:21 merits 16:22 53:14 oh 37:2,5 40:25
58:16 map 31:1 32:17 56:17 28:12 38:17 okay 7:25 11:6
33:3 math 38:6,7 Mexico 35:24,25 negotiations 49:13,17,23
38:17 matter 1:11 13:1 36:1 56:22 51:4,6,10,16
50:20 28:10 60:7 middle 30:24 never 28:16 52:6 53:5
56:4,19 mean 4:18 5:10 43:10 33:22,23,24 Oklahoma 3:11
60:1 6:4,20,23 10:3 mile 30:23 34:9,14,19 35:1 3:13,13,21 4:1
25:1,7,20 26:21 58:10 59:7 42:10,23 48:17 12:5,7,17,23
31:2 meaning 39:3 47:11 Niobrara 34:18 14:23 15:3,6,13
46:10 47:5 60:2 minutes 50:20 normal 5:19 15:14,14,16,25
meaningless 51:19 56:10 14:24 25:10 16:7,13,17 17:3
54:13 means 11:1 missing 46:6 north 43:8,13 18:13 19:19,19
10:6,14,15 54:25 months 55:16 notion 35:25 22:9 25:3,6,8,9
meant 36:19 morning 3:4 55:15 25:15,20,22,25
24:6 53:10 move 48:3 numbers 37:25 26:15,19,24
36:9,15 measure 51:9 multiple 25:23 numerical 39:24 27:1,2,9,22
30:19 28:16 57:25 6:3,6,19 7:15 picked 44:13 pool 8:25 9:6
38:11,13 out-of-State 45:4 8:11,12 9:3,25 pickle 42:17 58:14
41:4 45:10,14,15 15:1,7,10,11 piece 29:7 poor 43:9 48:18
43:1,2 owned 55:17 15:18 16:4 pink 32:18,20 48:19
ownership 13:7 17:18,20 20:17 33:11 portion 21:18
44:7 owns 13:11 21:16 22:7 23:2 pipe 7:10 28:2 39:12 56:6
O'Connell 17:25 23:8,23 24:8,14 pipeline 6:21 58:8
18:1,4 19:16 24:15 26:24 7:14 pose 20:7 21:20
20:1,19 21:11 28:5 29:22 pipelines 7:20 poses 21:13
49:5,7 22:3,16 23:6 32:13 36:10,10 53:17 posit 39:5
52:4,20 25:9,19 26:1,20 36:13,14,16,21 place 12:20 16:5 position 3:16
27:7,9,15,18 37:8,24 38:2 44:12 56:25,25 34:9 35:18
56:6 28:11 39:8,17,23 59:6 possible 11:9
58:2,10 O'CONNELL 40:12,15,16,17 places 7:19 9:14 23:3
1:17 2:6 41:2,8,14,21 28:6 29:14 post 55:10
17:5 P 46:1,13,16 58:13 59:23 practical 58:20
P 3:1 48:23 52:3,4,21 planning 32:3 practicalities
14:9 23:16 24:1,2,2 58:9,17 59:9,14 55:25 practicality 59:2
42:25 32:21 41:9 46:4 59:17 play 19:18 20:3 precisely 12:7
paragraph 23:18 24:18 11:17 12:10 prejudice 33:18
29:11 31:8,10 16:7,9,19 25:5 27:16 29:20 press 38:25
27:20 particular 15:22 51:8,9 42:21 44:1,5,13 presumption
18:1 28:22 particularly 9:7 permitting 19:19 26:2 48:16 prevail 20:9
26:16 parties 39:22 58:21 points 7:7 10:7 prevented 44:8
pattern 47:22 Petitioner 1:4,16 43:22 44:12 46:3 48:10
25:16 43:17 56:13 policy 17:7 55:25
17:1,15 21:9 24:23 19:11,23 22:20 regulate 18:22 16:7,9,22 25:10
34:24 46:9 22:25 23:2,8 regulation 18:25 27:2 28:18
43:14,19 50:12 57:5,7 33:17 35:10 regulations 58:24
44:4 pro-Texas 48:23 38:16,22 42:18 23:25 24:4 respect 8:18
43:16 pushed 10:24 19:4 23:4 59:8 relevant 9:5 52:1 respective 9:17
48:16,20 put 7:14 12:20 59:10 reliance 38:21 46:18,25
52:19 25:12 26:5 readings 23:3 relied 18:20 Respondents
Q real 40:9 remaining 56:11 Respondent's
question 11:15 38:17 52:15 remarkable 27:18 58:18
25:2 41:17 43:19 reason 22:17 remedy 39:3,4 rest 9:13 48:21
questions 29:2 reasons 18:9 remember 48:18 review 45:16
quite 5:3,7 11:11 2:12 56:12 repeats 47:22 right 4:19 6:20
29:13 32:3 26:24 reply 34:17 14:3,7,14 15:18
red 3:11,17,25 report 36:24 19:8,21 20:1
13:10 representatives 23:17,22 31:14
30:19 36:7 34:8,10,25 40:4
41:3 42:24 51:6 52:5
46:24
9:2 40:13 required 5:8 58:7 rights 5:4,17,18
requirement 6:1,14 8:22 9:2
18:8 referred 56:24
requires 18:18 11:3 12:16 21:4
referring 31:17
42:1 58:1
9:19 22:24 27:24 39:24 40:2,5,6
49:8,13 refresh 5:12
47:1,12 resident 15:12 44:8 53:8 54:5
54:9,10 regardless 20:6
49:3 54:2 residents 15:16 54:7,14 58:16
60:2 31:23 59:10,13
51:2 Russello 38:21 23:16 50:16 simply 12:18 specified 3:12
see 20:18 33:13 58:21 spell 44:11
6:22 7:11 S 45:17 56:20 site 27:21 58:15 spelled 53:9
12:21,22 S 1:20 2:1,10 3:1 seek 12:6 17:21 sites 4:15 8:25 spend 40:7
28:22 seeking 12:8 sitting 25:21 spent 59:24
24:3,11 sad 54:18 15:13,22 36:15 spoke 54:13
29:3 saline 31:11,21 seen 43:23 situation 14:23 stage 22:13
32:9,15 salt 37:20 seize 14:11 21:22 standards 12:11
37:22 salty 31:23 32:7 send 14:5 42:19 sketchy 4:23 5:2 16:21 58:23
samples 34:23 sense 10:1,10 slip 31:7 standing 38:25
15:17,23 43:10 54:11 57:11 54:12 state 4:6,14,19
20:14 satisfies 16:21 58:5 59:6 solve 34:4 5:6,21 6:3,5,18
28:20 satisfy 23:21 sentence 54:24 somewhat 47:25 6:21,22,23 7:4
saying 7:21 9:5 separate 10:13 sorry 7:12 9:9 8:24 9:5,15,17
31:25 14:13 21:11 Separately 10:12 17:5 23:18 11:20 15:9,12
40:22,25 25:16 29:17 seriously 55:25 36:17 46:24 20:6,7,8,10
43:15 35:9,23 36:21 set 6:25 7:24 47:12 21:2,3,5,9,12
56:9 60:4 40:15 42:18 50:21 sort 29:1 35:10 21:16,17 23:11
3:6,7,9 54:18 39:24 41:8 54:4 Sotomayor 9:8 28:16 29:17
5:1 6:8,12 says 4:7 5:16 6:3 58:9 9:10,20 10:3 30:15 33:19,19
7:7,22,25 6:12,14,18 8:10 shares 9:24 10:4 11:14 29:16,20 33:24 34:1,3,6
9:9,11 8:14 9:1 10:11 42:9 39:2,5,14,17 34:15 35:19
11:13,23 14:18 15:9 16:3 Shawnee 29:5,6 39:19 40:1 57:4 37:13 40:16
13:8 19:9 21:3 23:18 30:22 31:8 Sotomayor's 43:16 46:20
24:23 33:23,24 show 33:11 41:17 48:6,20 50:17
15:6,19 40:1,14 46:18 shows 35:17 sought 43:14 51:14 53:3,16
17:6,12 46:24 49:9 54:6 side 31:4 33:12 sounds 14:5 53:17 56:25
54:7 55:19 52:25 source 32:4 57:7 58:15,15
59:13 signatory 5:17 33:12 59:5,14
41:8,9 51:16 significant 48:15 sovereigns 18:17 States 1:1,12,19
54:17,22 season 43:12 55:23 59:21 2:7 4:7,13 5:3
23:7,19,21 24:5 53:11 59:19,22 9:16,17 10:12
40:2 section 4:9,11 47:18,24 special 15:24 18:15,17,22
23:19 subbasins 4:5 16:4 22:1 24:13 Texas 3:12,25 56:14 60:4
27:19 24:21 24:24 27:13 7:10,11,17 8:11 theory 26:22
34:9 36:7 subconsciously 29:17 30:20 10:4,4 11:22 they'd 42:3
49:2 31:2,3,6 32:8 12:4,20 13:3,10 thing 27:23 37:17
41:11,13 subdivides 4:4 35:20 38:12 13:13,16 14:2,6 47:4 50:18 55:7
44:7 subject 21:5 40:16 43:16 14:10,14,20 55:22 57:14
45:16 54:7 48:4 51:8 53:20 15:1,18,20,20 59:22
48:14 submits 16:20 53:21 55:1,24 15:24 16:3,16 things 7:25 8:17
50:22 51:2 26:3 57:11,22,24 17:18,19,20 59:12,15
54:3 submitted 22:21 59:14 18:7 19:18 think 8:9,17,19
57:22,24 26:8 60:5,7 taken 50:8 21:15,18,24 9:11,20 10:9
59:1 submitting 58:22 takes 9:3 22:1,7,9 25:4 11:6,15 12:25
18:24 sudden 46:2 talk 46:3 50:24 26:15,16,19,21 15:8 17:10
20:11 suggest 36:18 51:19 26:23 27:5,10 19:17,18 20:19
suggested 23:2 talking 10:3 27:11,25 28:5 20:22 22:3,4,5
29:11,14 22:22 49:11 57:17 30:2,19 31:4,9 26:11,22 28:8
30:20 superfluous 3:18 Tarrant 1:3 3:4 32:14 33:12 28:12,13 31:16
39:8 support 3:15 12:4,15,16,18 35:25 36:11,12 31:22 32:6
supposed 7:2 43:9,24 44:14 39:7,11 41:21 48:2,15 51:18
5:6,16 58:4 38:8,10,23 47:22 48:9,17 58:19 59:9
8:23 surprisingly 47:18 53:14 48:18,18,19,19 thinks 47:7
10:11,16,19 43:12 44:14,20 tell 17:3 20:25 48:25 49:5,16 third 44:16
11:4,19 system 47:8 40:6 48:2 51:14 51:7 52:4 53:18 thought 6:23
16:4 17:20 49:25 50:13 55:6 59:25 53:22 54:1 7:23 37:10 42:5
18:8 51:7,13,17 52:9 Tenth 38:24,24 55:24 56:6 50:11 52:24
26:9 systems 56:1 terms 10:1 16:25 57:10 58:7,11 53:24 55:17
29:8 30:3 17:15 18:16,19 59:1 thousands 56:1
T 19:7 51:23 Texas's 49:3 three 4:12 43:3
31:13 T 2:1,1 56:17 57:3 52:20 48:15 49:1
38:4 40:3 table 55:20 58:13 Texoma 29:11 three-quarters
49:4,6,9 take 4:19 5:10 terrain 8:7 29:13 30:25 30:23
52:3 56:5 6:22 7:20 8:10 territory 4:12 text 3:21,24 5:15 three-series 38:1
9:25 10:19 Texans 31:25 24:10 time 17:15 47:2
59:5 11:16 12:10 Texarkana Thank 3:9 17:24 48:24 49:21
14:15 15:13,22 33:13 28:20,24 56:8,9 times 5:19
32:6 34:13 users 18:7 21:18 1:15,18,20 57:24 58:3,4,5
47:14 51:1 45:15 59:3 4:6,7,19 5:5,5,7 59:3,3,6,13
51:3,8 12:20 21:4,5 23:20,22 8:23,25 9:2,6 watershed 37:9
30:3,8,9 unequivocal v 1:5 3:5 10:13 13:3,15 14:1,11 38:7 39:22 48:8
34:10 32:10,13,15 14:19 15:7,12 49:1,6
unique 4:11 13:15 17:19,20 18:7,8 we'll 7:18
United 1:1,12,18 22:17 30:19 19:19 20:8,11 28:3 41:7 57:17
38:9,15,18 38:23 40:10 21:14,16,18,18 whatsoever
48:14 53:24 46:8 47:3,18,25 24:15 25:4,5,9 whistles 35:6
54:19 unnecessary 51:25 53:5,6,14 26:9,17,21,24 wide 57:18,18,19
34:14 35:9 virtually 8:4 28:18 29:13,13 60:1,2
23:3 18:22 45:23 vote 44:24,25 31:2,3,13,22 41:5 50:1
29:1,14 Upper 43:8 44:25 32:2,4,8,10,15 world 53:23
35:11 upstream 48:19 32:19 33:5,10 wouldn't 21:19
43:22 use 3:12 4:7 5:5
58:9 5:17,19 6:1,15
8:22 9:2,16,17
24:24 42:1 43:1,8,13 Wow 35:16
25:11,12
33:17,20
45:4
57:25 59:3,21 48:18,25 49:5 wrote 59:24
57:7,25
59:3,16
48:14 53:7 55:4,11,13,17 35:14,19
50:16,17 401 49:11,12
34:25 25 5:6,22 6:3,6 41 47:23
41:23 6:19 7:15 8:11
50:25 15:1,7,10,11 5 4:10 11:19 18:8
55:10 15:18 16:4 30:6,7,9,10,20
59:24 17:18,20 20:17 30:21 31:13
22:7 23:2 32:18 38:4 40:3
29:22 59:5,11
5,000 49:22
36:10,10
45:24 46:1 49:4 36:16,21 39:8 5.05 19:25
58:2 39:17,23 40:12 5.05(b) 23:16
49:6 40:15,16,17 5.05(c) 46:11
55:18 41:2,8,14,21 50,000 28:6
57:19 42:18 48:23 500 49:23
37:24 53:21,22 54:5,6 56 2:14
1:4 3:4 56:19 58:9,17
1:13 3:2 6
36:13,14,14 60 46:16 47:14
2:11
24:5 47:17 52:3
38:2
60:6 60/40 57:6
46:4,23 3
46:4,5,23 7
2:4 32:2 41:11
37:24 70s 36:4
55:3
2:8 55:16 3,000 5:20 23:21 8
24:1 41:9 24:6 36:8 41:14 8 5:15
46:2 54:25 55:1
36:3,23 30 23:16 30:11 9
30:15 55:10 9A 47:10
32:23 99 45:22
37:8
4:10 30:3 46:11 38 36:16
47:9 39A 19:24
49:22
21:1,3 4
21:1 4 30:4 32:2 41:12
48:24 50:25 42:9 43:7 46:9
57:19 55:19
58:10 40 46:13,16
