IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ALLEN RYAN ALLEYNE, :
Petitioner : No. 11-9335
v. :
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, January 14, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MARY E. MAGUIRE, ESQ., Assistant Federal Public
Defender, Richmond, Virginia; on behalf of
Petitioner.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MARY E. MAGUIRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MARY E. MAGUIRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 11-9335, Alleyne v. United
States.
Ms. Maguire?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARY E. MAGUIRE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. MAGUIRE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case is about who gets to decide the
facts that trigger a mandatory minimum sentence. Any
fact that entitles a prosecution by law to a sentence
more severe than a judge could otherwise impose must be
found by the jury beyond a reasonable doubt.
Under Harris, the government is entitled --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, could you
address an issue that's very important to me, the one of
stare decisis. And so that -- hone in on that.
MS. MAGUIRE: Yes, Justice Sotomayor. I do
not believe that stare decisis poses a problem for the
Court in this case because Harris was a plurality
opinion. And while four of the Justices found that --
I'm sorry, five of the Justices voted to uphold
McMillan, only four of the Justices found that McMillan
was consistent with Apprendi.
And so we have a plurality opinion, and, for
our constitutional position, we do not believe that
Harris --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the problem is,
whether you're right or wrong -- and you're absolutely
right, it was a plurality opinion -- your adversary says
States have passed laws relying on it, the Federal
system is now structured around it, why isn't the damage
as great as they claim -- potential damage, I should
say.
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, first of all, I would
just note that, even though McMillan was decided in
1986, there is nothing in the legislative history that
indicates that Congress referred on McMillan when it
passed 924(c).
In addition, 924(c) is silent as to who
should be the fact-finder that triggers the mandatory
minimum. And, finally, in the McMillan case, that was
not really a Sixth Amendment case --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Address, please, the
practical consequences.
MS. MAGUIRE: Certainly.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How many -- how many
Federal courts are you aware are already charging the
924(c) facts to a jury, notwithstanding the -- the fact
that it's not required?
MS. MAGUIRE: Yes, I -- I would say that
there is little to no practical effect, if the Court is
to adopt a rule, because the majority of the Federal
courts are already -- and Federal prosecutors are
already -- alleging these facts in the indictment and
proving them to a jury beyond a reasonable doubt. And I
think that this case is the exact example of that.
It was alleged in the indictment. It went
to the jury, the jury got a special verdict form, so
there is no difficulty in implementing this rule --
JUSTICE ALITO: But isn't your position that
a decision of this Court is not entitled to stare
decisis protection, if there isn't a majority opinion in
that case?
MS. MAGUIRE: Yes, Your Honor. I do not
believe that Harris has precedential value because it is
a plurality opinion. In our --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I can think of some
pretty important decisions of this Court that were not
the result of a majority opinion. Do you want us to
adopt that as a blanket rule?
MS. MAGUIRE: No, Your Honor, but I would
note that, in constitutional questions like this one,
stare decisis is at its weakness -- weakest. I would
also --
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. Constitutional
decisions of this Court not decided with the majority
opinion, no stare decisis effect. That's your argument?
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, and also, Your Honor,
what I think is significant in this case, in terms of
the issue of stare decisis, is that McMillan was not a
Sixth Amendment case. McMillan was decided more on due
process grounds. And the only discussion of the Sixth
Amendment in McMillan comes in the last paragraph, when
it talks to the fact that the defendant has no right to
jury sentencing.
And so, for those reasons, we do not believe
that stare decisis poses a problem.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You haven't distinguished
McMillan. You've distinguished Harris. How do you
distinguish McMillan? Your -- your only grounds for
distinguishing that is it was not a
Sixth Amendment case, even though the opinion refers to
the Sixth Amendment?
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, Your Honor, it does, in
fact, refer to the Sixth Amendment in the very last
paragraph. But what McMillan was mostly concerned about
was a due process claim --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't care about
"mostly." The issue is whether McMillan was a
Sixth Amendment case, in part or in whole. And I don't
know how you can say it wasn't. We -- we don't decide
cases on -- on what a case mostly says. We decide on
what it says.
MS. MAGUIRE: That's absolutely --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Maguire, you don't --
you don't have to take the position that there's no
stare decisis effect. In a unanimous -- a recent
unanimous decision of this Court, obviously, would carry
more weight than one that has a plurality opinion, so
you don't have to say -- it isn't a question of yes or
no, it's a question of the degree of respect that we
would give to our former decision.
MS. MAGUIRE: I think that that is exactly
right, Justice Ginsburg. And, in fact, the other
factors that the Court considers when looking at stare
decisis is what were the margins of vote on the previous
cases, and McMillan was decided on a 5-4 decision,
whereas Harris, as we've noted, was a plurality
decision.
Both opinions were found over spirited
dissents. They have been criticized by this Court and
the lower courts, and, in all of those instances, we
believe that stare decisis is at its weakest --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I think it's important
for this Court to have a consistent doctrine of stare
decisis. The doctrine can't be, "We will overrule
decisions that we don't like, but we will stick with
decisions that the majority does like." So I'm still
looking for your understanding of what stare decisis
means in constitutional cases.
Now, with the suggestion of
Justice Ginsburg, I gather that your position is, if
it's a narrow decision, then it's -- stare decisis has
less weight; is that it? Now, what other factors? So
it has less weight. Why isn't it controlling, though?
Why does it have insufficient weight here?
MS. MAGUIRE: Because, Justice Alito,
another thing that you look -- look to, when you are
considering stare decisis, is whether or not the rule is
workable, whether or not the prior decision was badly
reasoned, and those are other factors that the Court can
consider.
And, if you look at this Court's Sixth
Amendment jurisprudence, as it has developed since
Apprendi, then in Booker, then in Blakely, then in
Cunningham, what we are asking for today is a logical --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But why is this not
workable? I mean, you can -- you can argue about
whether it was right or wrong. You can argue about
whether it has created some incongruity in the system.
But haven't the last number of years
suggested that it's perfectly workable? Everybody knows
what they are supposed to do; everybody does it. Why --
why is this not workable?
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, the Harris rule is not
workable on a practical level because what happens under
the Harris rule is the government is entitled to a fact
that drives a more severe punishment that never goes to
the jury. If -- if -- and what we are asking here is
that the court find that, where there is a fact that
triggers a mandatory minimum, that that fact be found by
the jury.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now I understand --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That sounds like --
that sounds like an argument that it's wrong, and that
is, of course, the first step in -- in the stare decisis
analysis. It doesn't sound, to me, responsive to
Justice Kagan's question is, in what sense is it
unworkable?
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, I think it becomes
unworkable in the drug cases, Your Honor, and in the
9841 statute because what you have there is you have, in
some circuits, people alleging drug weight, but, in
other circuits, you have they called this mixing and
matching. And, as long as the statutory maximum does
not exceed 20 years, the prosecutors are not alleging
the drug weights in the indictment.
And that becomes unworkable and quite
confusing to the courts. And the lower courts have
criticized the Harris rule, primarily in cases like
Krieger and others that we -- are cited in our amicus
brief, that the rule is somewhat unworkable.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why wouldn't that be a
problem if -- if the question had to be decided by the
jury? Why does -- why does requiring it to be decided
by the jury eliminate that -- that problem of the -- of
the mixing or not mixing?
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, asking it to be found by
a jury solves the problem because it -- it allows the
fact to go to the jury, the jury finds it. And we have
a long history in this country that jury verdicts drive
punishment. And so the idea is that the punishment that
somebody is open to should be driven by the jury
verdict.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You mentioned drug
weight. Let's -- so you're making -- your argument
would mean that drug weight also has to be found by the
jury because that can -- the length of the sentence can
depend on the -- the drug weight.
MS. MAGUIRE: If the drug weight is going to
trigger a mandatory minimum, Your Honor, yes, we would
say that, under our rule, that that would have to be
alleged in the indictment and proved to the jury beyond
a reasonable doubt, which, as our amicus briefs point
out, is being done already in the majority of circuits
throughout the country.
And so this is not going to put -- put any
additional burden on the prosecutors to be doing this.
And, fundamentally, what it does is that it levels the
playing field because what it does in trial situations
is it allows a defendant to know exactly what it is that
the government is going to prove.
The government then has to bring in those
witnesses at the time of trial, so that they can be
cross-examined on this fact that is going to trigger the
mandatory minimum in their case. And so it helps level
the playing field in that regard.
JUSTICE ALITO: Now, if you were defending a
case involving drug weight and your client maintained
that he or she had nothing to do with these drugs, how
would you proceed? Your argument would be: They're not
my drugs, but if they were my drugs, they weren't --
they didn't weigh more than one kilo.
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, Justice Alito, those are
strategical questions that come up in every trial case
that we have. And you have to decide, as a trial
lawyer, what your theory of the defense is going to be.
It's simply going to be, I wasn't there; or you may
decide to challenge the drug weight.
But those -- those strategic decisions exist
whether or not the Court adopts this rule or doesn't
adopt the rule --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the question was
what -- what strategic decision do you think the lawyer
should make?
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, any strategic decision a
lawyer makes is going to depend on the individual facts
of the case. For example --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you -- but -- but
Justice Alito has a real problem. What -- don't you put
the defense in a very difficult position?
MS. MAGUIRE: You don't put the defense in a
very difficult position because, in fact, if you adopt
our rule, we believe that you are protecting the
defendant's Sixth Amendment right to a jury because this
is a fact that is going to be triggering a mandatory
minimum.
And, if the government has to prove it, they
then have to bring in the witness to the trial, who is
then subject to cross-examination, which is a far
more --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but isn't it
difficult for you to say he had nothing to do with the
drugs, plus the drugs didn't weigh more than a certain
amount?
MS. MAGUIRE: I don't believe that that is
difficult, and I believe that those are decisions that
you make in every case. For example, in the case -- in
this case -- in Mr. Alleyne's case, our theory --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think that I am hearing
that, in every case, you are going to want witnesses --
you are going to insist on a jury determination of the
amount. That's kind of what I'm hearing.
MS. MAGUIRE: That is the rule,
Justice Kennedy, that we are asking the Court to adopt,
that if there's a fact --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Justice Alito says why
doesn't that put defense counsel in a very difficult
position?
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, it doesn't put defense
counsel in a difficult position at all because those are
the same decisions that you make, whether or not you
adopt this rule or you don't adopt this rule.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, we're not getting
far with this. But one answer you could say is that, in
order to preserve the constitutional right, you want us
to have a bifurcated trial. I thought you were -- might
say that.
MS. MAGUIRE: No, we are not -- we are not
asking for a bifurcated trial. We are just asking that
if there's one --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's good because that's
an extra problem.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Maguire, could I take
you to a different kind of question?
MS. MAGUIRE: Certainly.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Let's assume that there were
a statute, and it said carrying a gun is an offense and
that the range is 5 to 10 years. I realize it goes up
further in the real word, but let's just say 5 to 10
years. And Congress said, in setting the penalty within
that range, the judge shall consider whether the
defendant brandished the gun and whether the defendant
discharged the gun. Now -- and that's all the statute
said.
That would be constitutional; is that not
right?
MS. MAGUIRE: Yes, Justice Kagan, that would
be constitutional because it doesn't have the mandatory
effect.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So it's
constitutional for the judge to say, seven years because
you brandished, nine years because you discharged.
So what makes it unconstitutional, what
makes it a violation of the Sixth Amendment, when, now,
Congress just provides something extra in the statute?
It says not just you shall consider brandishing and
discharging, but, if you find brandishing, you get 7; if
you find discharging, you get 9.
MS. MAGUIRE: Okay. What makes that
unconstitutional is because you are stripping the judge
of all authority, and, by operation of law, you are
telling that judge that you must impose this sentence.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that seems right as a
definitional matter, as a descriptive matter. But I
guess the question I'm having difficulty with is why
does that matter for purposes of the Sixth Amendment?
The jury is doing the exact same thing, which is the
jury isn't doing anything in either of my examples.
So the only difference between example
number one, which you said was constitutional, and
example number two is that, now, Congress is giving
further instruction to the judge, but nothing more is
being taken away from the jury; is it?
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, yes, it is because, in
your second hypothetical, where it is the mandatory
minimum, which is exactly what we have in this case,
this notion that somehow Congress is channelling
discretion is a fiction because what it does is it tells
the judge, you must impose seven years, and you cannot
even consider what is authorized by the jury verdict in
this case.
And the jury verdict in this case authorized
a range of five years as the bottom. And so what
happens is, when you have Congress coming in and saying
that, if you find this fact on a mere preponderance
standard, you must impose seven years, then you are
stripping the defendant of the benefit of the full jury
verdict in this case, which authorized a range that had
a lower floor than that called for by the Federal
statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Maguire, could -- could
you repeat the first sentence you uttered in this
argument? I -- I hesitated to jump in so early, but
could you repeat it verbatim? Maybe you had committed
it to memory. Good -- good counsel often does that.
(Laughter.)
MS. MAGUIRE: Thank you, Justice Scalia.
It's -- my very first sentence was, "This case is about
who gets to decide the facts that trigger a mandatory
minimum sentence."
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, that wasn't it.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It started,
"Mr. Chief Justice."
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think what you said was
who has to decide a fact which causes a defendant to be
subject to a penalty that he would not otherwise be
subject to? And the fact is that, in the case of a
mandatory minimum, the defendant could have been given
that mandatory minimum. It was up to the judge.
So this mandatory minimum does not increase
the penalty to which the defendant is subject. He's
subject, in Justice Kagan's example, to any penalty
between one years -- one year and 10. The judge, even
without the statute that she mentioned, could have given
him seven years because he -- he brandished a gun.
There -- there is really no -- no increase in the
penalty to which he is exposed.
And I thought that is what Apprendi
addressed, any increase in the penalty to which you are
exposed, so that when you decide, I'm going to rob a
bank -- you know -- you know, when you go in, you are
going to get between one and 10 years, and, with a
mandatory minimum, you get between one and 10 years.
So what's the complaint, as far as Apprendi
is concerned?
MS. MAGUIRE: The complaint is that -- and
why we believe that the rule we are asking the Court to
adopt, Justice Scalia, is a natural -- it follows the
logic of Apprendi, is because, in both cases, you have
judicial factfinding that's leading to a more harsh
sentence. In your --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It isn't leading to a more
harsh -- more harsh sentence. That's the whole point of
Apprendi. Does it lead to a sentence which is greater
than the judge would otherwise be authorized to impose?
And, in the case of a mandatory minimum, it never is.
The judge could impose that, if he was a hanging judge.
You know, you have some hanging judges; you have some
bleeding heart judges.
And -- and what a mandatory minimum simply
says is -- you know, we don't care what kind of a judge
you are, at least this much. But it doesn't expose the
defendant to any greater penalty. He's -- he's at risk
between one and 10 years.
MS. MAGUIRE: Well -- and I think,
Justice Scalia, that's -- that's a false presumption. I
think that's the position of the government, that,
somehow, mandatory minimums channel discretion within a
range. That is a fiction because a judge is being
told, you must impose this, you have no choice, you
cannot go below this. That is the whole nature of a
mandatory minimum. And so this --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have any
statistics, on at least 924(c), of how often the greater
is the sentence than the absolute minimum required by
law?
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, Justice Sotomayor, this
Court found in O'Brien -- and I think that it's also
cited in the Lucas briefs and Dorsey briefs that this
Court is holding, that the majority of all defendants
convicted under 924(c) are, in fact, sentenced at the
mandatory minimum.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, in fact, your
argument is that fixing a sentence is different than
giving a judge discretion because it ignores the fact
that a judge might have given you less?
MS. MAGUIRE: That is exactly right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That seems to me --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So it's depriving you of
the constitutional right to have a jury decide what your
sentence could be?
MS. MAGUIRE: That is exactly right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Of having a judge decide
what your sentence could be?
MS. MAGUIRE: That is exactly right. And
it's further depriving you -- it is depriving the
defendant of liberty interests. It is imposing a
stigma, and it is entitling the prosecutor to a greater
and more severe punishment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's -- I'm not
sure that that's -- you've emphasized several times that
it takes away the discretion of the judge. That seems,
to me, to be a matter between Congress and the Judiciary
and not a Sixth Amendment question.
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, Mr. Chief Justice,
actually, the language of this Court in Apprendi said
that it is unconstitutional for the legislature to
remove from the jury the assessment of facts that
increase the prescribed range of penalties to which a
criminal defendant is exposed.
And that is exactly what's happening in this
context because --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Apprendi, thought, did it
both ways. I mean, that's the best sentence for you in
Apprendi, but there are other sentences in Apprendi
which more go towards what Justice Scalia suggested,
that the question was increasing it above the maximum
that the jury authorized.
So I'm not sure that we can get from the
language of Apprendi -- and I guess the question is, as
a matter of principle, why I -- I completely understand
why a defendant would care about this. The question is
does it -- does it create a Sixth Amendment violation,
which is -- you know, the jury has to do this, when --
when Congress is decreasing the judge's discretion, but
it's -- either way, the jury isn't deciding this.
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, Justice Kagan, we do
believe the Sixth Amendment is implicated because we
think the history of the Sixth Amendment in this country
shows that the role of the jury is the buffer between
the citizen meant to protect and the government.
And mandatory minimums give the prosecution
far much power. And, in fact, if you do not adopt our
rule and -- and make the government have to prove it
beyond a reasonable doubt, what happens is then the
average citizen does not get the benefit of a jury
verdict, and his sentence is not driven wholly by the
jury verdict because, in this case, we had a jury
verdict, the government alleged the fact, we had a
special verdict form, the jury failed to find that fact.
As a result of that, then, the range to --
that Mr. Alleyne should have been exposed was a
five-year mandatory minimum and for the constitutional
argument assuming a maximum of life. Here, what
happened and at the sentencing hearing was on a mere
preponderance, the judge had to impose seven. And so we
believe that is where you have the Sixth Amendment
problem because the defendant --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you -- you quoted
Apprendi correctly as saying that the jury has to decide
any fact which increases the sentence to which the
defendant is exposed. That's the language you quoted,
and it's accurate.
Why does a mandatory minimum increase the
sentence to which the defendant is exposed? He could
get the mandatory minimum sentence, even if there were
no mandatory minimum prescribed. He is exposed to a
sentence of one to 10 years. A mandatory minimum says,
you must impose seven years if he brandishes.
But the sentence to which he is exposed is
one to 10 years. And the mandatory minimum does not
change that at all. He is at risk for one to 10 years.
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, I understand that that
may not change the exposure. What it does, on a
practical level, is it prevents the judge from even
considering anything less than the seven years.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's true.
MS. MAGUIRE: And that becomes the problem.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's true. But you must
acknowledge that that's not the theory of Apprendi.
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, I think the theory of
Apprendi if you -- if you take it out to its logical
step, is that, if you have judicial factfinding that is
resulting in a more harsh sentence being imposed, then,
in fact, you have a Sixth Amendment problem.
And so what happens on the mandatory
minimums is that, if a judge finds the mandatory
minimum, a more harsh sentence is being imposed because,
as an example, in this case, the judge could not even
consider giving the five-year year floor as a mandatory
minimum, which we've already noted is, in fact, how most
criminal defendants are sentenced under the 924(c)
statute at the mandatory minimum level.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think the logic of
Apprendi is that the jury has to decide it if it
increases the sentence to which the defendant is
exposed, not if it eliminates some discretion of the --
of the Court. He's exposed.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How about Booker? What
did Booker do --
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- to the logic of
Apprendi?
MS. MAGUIRE: Justice Sotomayor, what I
believe that Booker did is that Booker indicated that
when you have a fact that drives -- a finding of fact
that drives a mandatory sentence to be imposed, that,
obviously, that was the Sixth Amendment problem.
Now, I understand and appreciate --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Even when the statutes
had a higher maximum?
MS. MAGUIRE: That is correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because the jury was --
because the judge was constrained within a different
maximum?
MS. MAGUIRE: That is correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that your argument
here?
MS. MAGUIRE: Yes. And so what I believe is
that what Booker indicates is that it is this mandatory
effect which may -- and that is why this Court found --
extending Apprendi in the Booker case, that, in fact,
the guidelines then had to become advisory. It is the
mandatory effect of the factfinding that is essential in
these cases.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It wasn't a mandatory
minimum case. Booker was a case in which the maximum
was increased on the basis of judge finding of fact.
The maximum was increased. So, under the situation in
Booker, the -- the exposure of the defendant was,
indeed, increased on the basis of judge factfinding.
Instead of one to 10, the statute in -- in Booker said,
if you brandish a gun, you can get 15.
That's a -- that's a quite different
situation from saying, yes, you are still on the hook
for one to 10, but, if you brandish, you got to get 7.
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, Justice Scalia, I think
the concern in Booker was the mandatory nature of the
guidelines. And while I would agree with you, that this
Court, in its constitutional part of the Booker
decision, did, in fact, look to the increase in the
maximums, it is the same problem. You have judge --
judicial factfinding that is mandating a particular
sentence.
And that is where you have the Sixth--
JUSTICE ALITO: Why is Booker -- why is
Booker entitled to greater stare decisis weight than
Harris and McMillan?
MS. MAGUIRE: Well, I believe that Booker
is -- is entitled to greater weight because it was more
recently decided by this Court, and I also believe that
it is a more recent interpretation of this Court of the
principles held in Apprendi.
I would like to reserve the remainder of my
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Dreeben?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This Court should adhere to its decision in
Harris v. United States, which reaffirmed
McMillan v. Pennsylvania because those decisions
properly respected the fact that a mandatory minimum
divests the defendant of the right to judicial leniency.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I go back to a
simple question on the stare decisis, the practicality
question?
What is so impractical about letting a jury
decide an issue that sets a mandatory sentence of any
kind? Why -- why are juries incapable of figuring out
whether a gun was carried or brandished? Why are they
incapable of figuring out how many -- how much drugs
were sold or whether someone was driven by any of the
factors that States want to commit to judges, but the
Sixth Amendment might require them to submit to juries?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Sotomayor, the
government's argument here is not that juries are
incapable of finding facts under the Federal statutes
that involve mandatory minimums. It's that Congress has
sound reasons for wishing to allocate that factfinding
to the sentencing process and that it is not
unconstitutional for Congress to do so.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But what does that have
to do with the needs -- the constitutional need to make
sure that juries are driving a fixed sentence of any
kind?
MR. DREEBEN: The -- the constitutional
question, in my view, Justice Sotomayor, turns on
whether there is a right to the mercy of a tenderhearted
judge. That is what a defendant loses when a judge
finds a mandatory minimum fact.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, it isn't quite. I
mean, the -- the linguistic difference -- I agree with
Justice Scalia, and I agree with you. It turns on the
word "exposed." I mean, if you state Apprendi's holding
as it was just stated, this is a different case because
you could, in fact, if you were the defendant, have been
sentenced to that anyway. That's your argument.
MR. DREEBEN: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, let's put it
differently. There is a fact in the world. There's a
gun, or there wasn't a gun. In the Apprendi case, if
the fact turns out to be gun, you could get two more
years. All right? We have to go to the jury. Now,
here there's a fact in the world, gun or not gun.
If it turns out not gun, you get a lower
sentence, you could. And, if it turns out to be the
fact, gun, you can't -- the judge cannot put you in that
box. He has to put you in a worse box. He has to put
you in a worse box. He has to give you more than --
more than the three years, two years, or one year. He
has to. Okay?
Now, from the point of view of the
defendant, worse or not -- at least as bad. From the
point of view of Congress, same. They drew some lines,
want a judge to administer them, and they turn on facts.
And the sentence very often will turn on those facts.
From the point of view of the judge, same.
It's the jury decides or he decides. In the one case,
his discretion is cut off to give a lower sentence. In
the other case, his discretion is granted to give a
higher sentence.
Now, I see tremendous similarities, though I
grant you the words are different, but can you -- can
you just explain --
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- why the difference in
the words should overcome the fact that I can't think of
a -- of a difference, other than those words that
happened to be used in Apprendi?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Breyer, we have
a chart in our brief that I think is addressed
explicitly to the question that you are asking, and it's
on page 36 of our brief. And it illustrates the
difference between an Apprendi situation and a
Harris-McMillan situation. So the government's gray
brief.
And the point of the chart is this --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What page? What page?
MR. DREEBEN: This is page 36 of the
government's brief.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm afraid the other side
was upside down, and I saw what you meant.
MR. DREEBEN: Okay. The point of Apprendi
is a jury cannot be reduced to low-level gatekeeping.
Congress cannot pass a statute that says it is a crime
to assault someone, and that's punishable by one year in
prison. But if the crime involves rape, then it's
punishable by 10 years in prison. Or if the crime
involves attempted murder, then it's punishable by up to
life.
Congress can't do that because it would
diminish the role of the jury in finding the critical
facts that constitute the crime that sets the
defendant's maximum exposure. Apprendi protects against
that.
In a Harris situation, the defendant is
already exposed to the maximum penalty that the
defendant incurs under the statute, and that's what the
second column illustrates. The defendant who commits a
Section 924(c) crime knows that the defendant faces up
to life in prison.
When the mandatory minimum comes along, it
doesn't increase the defendant's exposure to the most
severe punishment he can get. It divests the defendant
of a degree of judicial discretion. But the Sixth
Amendment does not protect a right to judicial
discretion.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You know, but that --
JUSTICE BREYER: But --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the -- that's the --
you've used all the words, which do make the difference,
in your mind. But my question --
MR. DREEBEN: It's not just in my mind,
Justice --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- is why should those
words make a difference?
Look, in the one case -- I'll be repeating
myself, but I want you to see it. In the one case,
presence of a fact or not means the defendant goes into
a higher sentencing box. In the other case, presence of
a fact or not means that he cannot go into the low
sentencing box.
MR. DREEBEN: And when he cannot --
JUSTICE BREYER: In the one case, he cannot
go into the low sentencing box; in the other case, he
can't go into the high sentencing box. I got that
difference.
My only problem is why does it make a
difference.
MR. DREEBEN: It matters because the Sixth
Amendment protects a right to a jury trial; it does not
protect a right to judicial leniency.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, it's not -- well, you
can call it judicial leniency, but you could call the
other judicial harshness. I mean, what is, in fact,
turning out --
MR. DREEBEN: No, because, in -- in the
other situation, it protects the right of the jury to
determine the ingredients of the crime that Congress has
determined exposed the defendant --
JUSTICE BREYER: And, here, we have the
ingredients of a crime that Congress has determined that
you have to get the five years.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, we know --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, in the one case,
you can say all that Apprendi did. It never should have
been decided -- I mean, some of us thought that --
because, in fact --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I wonder who -- I wonder
who that could have been.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: All you're talking about
there is that you are stopping the judge from exhibiting
his otherwise discretion towards harshness, and that's a
matter for judges. I've heard all these arguments
before, you see.
MR. DREEBEN: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: And I've just heard them in
the context of harshness, and, now, I don't know why
changing it to leniency makes them somehow more
relevant. They weren't apparently relevant in the first
situation; so why are they relevant in this one?
MR. DREEBEN: They weren't relevant
in the first situation because, if there is no cap from
the maximum that a judge could impose based on judicial
factfinding, the role of a jury can be shrunk to what
the Court has called low-level gatekeeping. That can
never happen under a statute that increases only the
mandatory minimum.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, is that --
Mr. Dreeben, and -- and I think it's -- it's a great
question. Is the jury functioning as a low-level
gatekeeper under the Harris rule? Because I could make
the argument that, in fact, it is -- you know, you take
a statute, and it says, five and up for carrying, and
seven and up for brandishing, right? And this isn't
even a hypothetical. This is pretty close to this case.
It goes to the jury. The jury says, we
think he was carrying, we do not think that he was
brandishing, all right? And then it goes to the judge.
And, now, the judge says, you know what, if I had my
druthers, I would only give five years. If I had my
druthers, I absolutely would defer to the jury verdict,
but I can't defer to the jury verdict because Congress
has said I have to make this special factfinding, and
the truth of the matter is I think he did brandish, and
so I have to give seven years.
So the judge is not deferring to the jury,
and he's not deferring to the jury when he would prefer
to do so. I guess the question is isn't that, in every
practical sense -- doesn't the mandatory minimum
effectively increase the maximum punishment that the --
that the defendant otherwise would get?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, it certainly doesn't
increase the maximum punishment that's authorized under
the statute. And it doesn't prevent the judge from
making the exact same finding by a preponderance of the
evidence that the jury did not make beyond a reasonable
doubt and giving seven years, even if there were no
mandatory minimums.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes. But what I'm
suggesting is that in the world of judges -- you know,
this -- the graph you wrote has this very little
difference in the Harris situation between five and
seven. But, in fact, most judges want to give five. I
mean, that's the truth of the matter, that -- you know,
nobody's giving a 97-year sentence.
So -- so the action in the criminal justice
system is at this lower range. And, at this lower
range, what the mandatory minimums do is effectively
tell a judge that they cannot defer to a jury verdict.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, it's, first of all, not
entirely accurate that judges do not give higher
sentences than the minimum. There are plenty of cases
in which they do so. If the 920 --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But let's say --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I know there are plenty of
cases. All I'm saying is it's not the unusual case to
find ourselves in exactly this position, where the judge
wants to give five, the jury wants to give five, the
judge can't defer to the jury's verdict that it should
be five.
MR. DREEBEN: But taking away judicial
discretion to treat a fact within the range differently
than what Congress wants doesn't infringe the jury trial
right.
The jury can find facts by a -- beyond a
reasonable doubt, but, when the judge is at sentencing,
he is not operating under that burden, so the
factfinding role of the jury --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you could say that
with reference to the -- to the maximum. Everything you
said could be applied to the maximum, and Apprendi says
you can't say that.
MR. DREEBEN: I don't think that it's quite
true that everything that I said applies to the maximum,
Justice Kennedy, because, as the plurality opinion in
Harris explained, once the court has been confronted
with a defendant who's convicted, the judge's discretion
extends up to the statutory maximum. He can't use his
factfinding ability to increase the defendant's exposure
to criminal punishment. Mandatory minimums can never do
that.
The defendant is already exposed to the
sentence that the judge could give. And I grant you,
Justice Kagan, that some judges might choose to give a
lower sentence. But the fact that they might choose to
reflects judicial leniency, tenderheartedness, something
that the Sixth Amendment does not speak to.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about in deference to
the jury's finding? I mean, in this -- this -- this
very case, wasn't it so that the judge said, I could
just say seven years because it's within the range, but
it would be dishonest of me to do that, wouldn't it? I
have to say seven because it's the mandatory minimum.
I think this is a case where the effect
is -- is shown graphically, that the judge says, I'm
stuck with the seven; I would prefer five. That's what
the jury would lead me to do, but I'm -- my hands are
tied, I cannot respect the jury's finding.
MR. DREEBEN: I think, Justice Ginsburg,
that the judge said he would be intellectually honest
and not ignore the fact that the -- the finding of
brandishing did trigger the mandatory minimum. He did
not say, I otherwise would have given five. And I think
that this case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But is it the usual case
that a judge, when faced with this decision, has before
him a jury finding? I -- that --
MR. DREEBEN: It's not the usual case,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The Petitioner is asking
these cases to be thrown out, even if there has been no
jury finding.
MR. DREEBEN: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the judge says -- you
know, I have to decide whether he brandished or not; I
think he brandished. But I -- you know, the Petitioner
here wants to say, the judge cannot consider himself
bound by a mandatory minimum. It seems to me the
unusual case in which you have a jury finding, that the
judge must ignore in -- in -- he actually doesn't ignore
it, he goes along with it.
The jury may well be right, that it's
impossible to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that --
that the felon brandished a gun, but it's -- it -- it's
quite easy to say that it's very likely he branded a
gun -- brandished a gun, which is what the judge has to
find. So he -- he's not even ignoring the jury finding.
MR. DREEBEN: No, there is no inconsistency
between -- and I think, if you look at the way this case
evolves, it's not even clear that the jury rejected
brandishing. What's very interesting about this case is
it's possibly the best illustration of the unfairness
problem that Justice Alito alluded to and that
Justice Breyer has written about in his opinions. The
issue at trial in this case was identity.
Was the defendant actually the person
sitting in the car, while his accomplice walked up to
the victim and -- and put a revolver into his neck and
asked for money? That was the issue at trial. There
was no discussion of brandishing whatsoever.
Nobody focused on it, and it allowed the
defendant, after the jury rejected his identity
argument, to go to the judge and say, even though the
jury has now found that my guy did it, he could not have
foreseen that a gun would have been used.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Dreeben, can I go
back to a point you made earlier? You talked about a
legislature not attempting to supplant the jury's role
on the maximum. You don't see the same danger -- we
started out in a country where almost all sentencing was
in the discretion of the judge; whatever crime you
committed, the judge could decide where to sentence you.
As Apprendi and its subsequent progeny laid
out, these sentencing changes that have come into
existence have really come into existence the latter
half of the last century.
What -- don't you fear that, at some point,
the legislature will go back to the old system of
supplanting the jury by just saying what it said in
924(c)? Every single crime has a maximum of life.
And all the -- and every single fact that's
going to set a real sentence for the defendant, a
minimum, we're going to let the judge decide by a
preponderance of the evidence.
The bottom line of my question is, when
Apprendi was decided, what should be the driving force
of protecting the jury system? The deprivation of
discretion, whether that's permissible or not, or
whether a sentence is fixed in a range, whatever it
might be, by a jury?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the better rule
to keep both extremes from happening?
MR. DREEBEN: I think, Justice Sotomayor,
that the Court recognized, in Apprendi, that its rule
was limited and to certain extent could be evaded by
legislatures, if they were inclined to do so.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Dreeben, I think that
history is wrong. In fact, the way the country started,
there was no judicial discretion. There were simply
fixed penalties for crimes. If you stole a horse, you
were guilty of a felony, and you would be hanged.
That's where we started.
MR. DREEBEN: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I would think that the
risk involved is whether, if we come out the way that
the Petitioner here urges us to do, legislatures will
consider going back to -- to where we started from and
simply saying, if you brandish, you get seven years,
period, with no discretion in the judge.
That, it seems to me, is the greater risk.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Scalia, I agree
in part with both you and Justice Sotomayor on history.
In fact, if you look at the 1790 Crimes Act that the
First Congress passed, many of the set sentences are
determinant sentences.
Others of the sentences were -- were
prescribed up to a certain amount of years. And, within
that, it was well understood that judges would find
facts to graduate the penalties according to the gravity
of the crime.
And what the legislatures have done in the
20th Century innovation of mandatory minimums within an
otherwise authorized range, as you have with 924(c), is
say, we would prefer that judges take into account
brandishing and discharging, as under Justice Kagan's
hypothetical statute, but we would like to -- to do that
in a uniform manner.
We know that they can find, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that brandishing exists.
We know that many, if not most, judges would consider
that worse than simple possession of a firearm in a
crime of violence, and we want judges to behave
consistently.
By proscribing consistency, they are acting
in accord with the historical tradition of having
determinate sentences, a tradition that this Court held
in Chapman v. --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry, the
historical -- you said, earlier, that most of the
historical evidence was that determinate sentences would
be decided by juries; they found facts, and a
determinate sentence was given.
MR. DREEBEN: And there was no judicial
discretion, which I think makes --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what is the judicial
discretion now? You find by a preponderance of the
evidence, and a mandatory minimum makes you give seven.
So where is the judicial discretion?
MR. DREEBEN: The judicial discretion is
what the defendant is losing. He is not losing the
right to a jury trial because the very same verdict
authorizes the judge to find brandishing and impose
seven years.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You think, for a
defendant in a constitutional right, that they are
more -- that it's constitutional to have a determinate
sentence at seven and still constitutional -- and make
the jury find it by a -- beyond a reasonable doubt and
that it's still constitutional to have a determinative
sentence of seven years, but have the jury find it by a
preponderance of the evidence?
MR. DREEBEN: To have the jury find it by a
preponderance of the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Those are equal? Those
are -- those are equal?
MR. DREEBEN: It's not just my position that
it's constitutional for a -- a judge to find mandatory
minimum triggering facts by a preponderance. I'm sure
that a legislature could allocate that to a jury, if it
wishes to.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, I know we said it in
Harris.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The question here before
us today is --
MR. DREEBEN: Yes. And I think that -- that
not only does it not contradict any decision of this
Court to allow the judge to make those findings, it
doesn't contradict the principle behind the jury trial
right or the right to proof beyond a reasonable doubt.
JUSTICE BREYER: Look, look, here's another
way of putting the same point: With the mandatory
minimum, the judge can't go below the five years, okay?
But you say, well, he could have gone below
the five years anyway, couldn't he have? I mean, you --
he could have given you the five years anyway -- sorry.
He could have given you the five years anyway. That's
your point.
MR. DREEBEN: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. He could have
given you the five years -- he could have given you the
five years if you'd been -- if you had been convicted of
a different crime.
MR. DREEBEN: And that's the difference
between this and Apprendi.
JUSTICE BREYER: But why does that make a
difference? The best way I thought of putting it is the
heading on page 6 of their reply brief is almost right,
I think.
I mean, I -- it says it's -- it's permitting
judges to find facts by a preponderance of the evidence
that compels sentences higher than a set of those
permitted by the jury's verdict.
That's exactly what's going on here.
MR. DREEBEN: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and I -- I want to
know, what is it? And the trouble is --
MR. DREEBEN: That's --
JUSTICE BREYER: You're just going to say,
well, he could have given the same sentence anyway. And
I'm going to say, well, so what, why does that matter?
MR. DREEBEN: It's descriptively accurate,
but it says nothing about the constitutionality of the
procedure. And I think that it's very important to
focus not only on the fact that stare decisis is in
play, but that Apprendi has been a very history-driven
area of the law. Last term, when the Court extended
Apprendi to fines, it has found an ample historical basis
for doing so.
In this case, by comparison, there is no
historical showing that would justify extending Apprendi
to fines. Not only is there no direct analogy to a
924(c) type statute, but the three pillars of their
historical argument are extremely weak and strained
analogies.
The first one is simply that, to get a
statutory crime that was parallel to a common law crime,
but differed, the prosecutor had to charge all of the
elements of the statutory crime in the indictment. That
says nothing about mandatory minimum sentencing.
The sentence -- second pillar of their
historical argument is the procedure called benefit of
clergy, which was a form of what Blackstone called a
statute pardon, that allowed a defendant to avoid a
capital sentence.
In the First Crimes Act, in Section 31, in
1790, Congress said, "Benefit of clergy shall not exist
in the United States for any crime punishable by a
capital sentence." Benefit of clergy has never been
part of this -- this country's Sixth Amendment heritage.
It was abolished before the Sixth Amendment was even
ratified.
And the third pillar of their historical
argument are three late 19th Century cases, Jones,
Garcia, and Lacy, each of which involve statutes that
both raised the maximum and the minimum, not a single
one of them spoke about the Constitution. None of them
purported to define what a legislature could do if it
wanted to raise only the minimum, and that's it.
And I would suggest to the Court that this
kind of Gertrude Stein history, where there's really no
"there" there, is not sufficient to overturn the
legislative prerogative to make uniform the findings of
fact within a range --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dreeben, could I take
you back to the principles involved? Let's suppose
that, instead of this statute, which is 579, you had a
statute which was five for carrying, five up to life, and
then, for brandishing, 40. All right? And maybe if
we're discharging, 60. All right. So a very large gap.
Is your argument still the same?
MR. DREEBEN: The constitutional argument is
the same. I think this Court's decision in O'Brien
suggests that, unless the legislature were absolutely
clear about it, the Court would conclude that those
would be deemed elements.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But suppose the
legislature --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sorry. I didn't hear
your last word. Those would be?
MR. DREEBEN: "Deemed elements." Under the
decision in O'Brien, where the machine gun finding
raised the minimum to 30 years, the Court held that it
should be deemed to be an element, but --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But suppose -- suppose that
Congress is absolutely clear about it, and you say --
and I think that you're right, you've got to be right
about this -- it's a constitutional matter, it's the
same, but the hypothetical sort of suggests exactly what
you said our inquiry ought to be, is that, in a world
like that, the jury is, in fact, functioning only as a
low-level gatekeeper; isn't that right?
MR. DREEBEN: No.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And that the only reason we
see it in the hypothetical a little bit more clearly is
because the numbers are a bit more dramatic.
MR. DREEBEN: I wouldn't suggest that the
jury is being a low-level gatekeeper in that situation
because the jury's verdict alone -- and this is a
serious crime -- exposes the defendant to a life
sentence. This is a crime that involves either a
predicate Federal crime of violence or a Federal drug
trafficking crime, plus the use of the gun in it.
And I think Congress could reasonably expect
that the worse the use of the gun, the more extreme, the
higher the corresponding penalty. And, indeed, if a
924(c) violation is charged by itself, and a defendant
is an armed career criminal, then his sentencing range
goes up to 360 months to life --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, there's something
deeply incongruous, isn't there, where you have an
Apprendi rule which says if the maximum is -- you know,
if it's five to seven, and then the -- the judge says
seven years and a day, we're going to take that out, but
as a mandatory minimum that will leapfrog you from five
to 40 doesn't get the same result?
MR. DREEBEN: It's not incongruous if you
look at it from the point of view of the fact that the
jury verdict itself allows a life sentence. And if the
defendant draws the proverbial hanging judge who, in his
discretion -- or her discretion, wants to give that life
sentence, the defendant knew, from day one, when he
committed the crime, that, if the jury finds him guilty
of it, he's exposed to a life sentence.
And the Court, in Apprendi, said structural
democratic constraints will preclude legislatures -- or
at least discourage them from assigning maximum
sentences to crimes that are higher than what the
legislature deemed --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how about in O'Brien,
if the legislature had said 40 years for a machine gun?
Would we -- how do we justify saying, no, that has to
remain an element? Under your theory, the democratic
process didn't work.
MR. DREEBEN: No, I think that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how -- what would we
do in that situation?
MR. DREEBEN: In that situation, the
democratic process would have concluded that firearms
brandishing, discharge, or use of a machine gun is an
extremely serious component of this crime. We know
judges will take that into account in sentencing. We
simply want them to take that into account in the same
particularly harsh way.
And in -- in trying to achieve uniformity
among judicial actors, when finding facts at sentencing,
which everybody knows that they will do, does not
deprive the defendant of a right to a jury trial on the
elements of the crime; it deprives him of the right to a
judge who might show mercy under a particular set of
facts.
And that simply is not the right that's
embodied in the Sixth Amendment.
JUSTICE BREYER: That -- that's -- I don't
know if you can add anything to this, but, remember, I
agree with you about the history, but I just apply it to
Apprendi, too. So the one --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is so bad he wants to
extend it.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought -- are you sure
it was Gertrude Stein and not Dorothy Parker? But I
think you're probably right about that.
But the -- the -- I'm thinking of this as,
well, Apprendi, I see what they're thinking. They're
thinking that, once you have to add the extra fact to
get above the otherwise ceiling, it's like a new crime.
It isn't really a new crime, but it's like a new crime.
Okay. But then I can say, well, once you
have to really cut off that five years and less and
really send him to jail for five years, hey, that's just
like a new crime. It isn't really a new crime, but it's
like a new crime.
So why can't I say everything that we said
about Apprendi here, except I can't deny what you say,
the judge could have given the sentence anyway. That's
absolutely right. But all the other things, I can say.
Is that true?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I agree that you can say
them, Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: But, I mean, are they true?
(Laughter.)
MR. DREEBEN: Respectfully, no.
We -- the critical point about Apprendi is,
by assigning the role of constitutional element status
to a fact that increases the maximum, the Court has
preserved the jury trial right against its reduction to,
essentially, a formality on a particular subset of
elements. And the relationship of a crime that's
covered by Apprendi and the so-called base crime is like
a greater included offense and a lesser included
offense.
Whereas, in the mandatory minimum situation,
we know that the judge will be engaged in sentencing.
We know that the judge will find facts that extend
beyond the elements of the crime to inform himself about
how the basic crime is committed. We also know that
different judges may treat those facts differently after
finding them by the preponderance of the evidence.
The mandatory minimum changes only one
thing. It says, Judge, if you find this fact,
brandishing or discharge, you will impose the same
sentence as your neighboring judge down the hall, not a
different one based on your different perception of
sentencing philosophy.
So it allows the legislature to intervene
after having defined a sufficiently serious enough crime
and determine how the judges will treat those facts.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why is the legislature
being deprived of that right, if they give it to the
jury?
MR. DREEBEN: The legislature --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, it seems to me
that, whether you give it to a jury or a judge, the
legislature protects itself by declaring a minimum
sentence.
MR. DREEBEN: There are many ways --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It determines the
sentence, really.
MR. DREEBEN: There are many ways that a
legislature could achieve a goal that allows the judge's
factfinding to carry more weight. For one thing, it
could extend the maximum punishments and convert
everything into an affirmative defense, which this Court
said last week is constitutional.
The point is whether the defendant has
really been divested of a jury trial right when he loses
the right to the mercy of a judge.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dreeben.
Ms. Maguire, you have five minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MARY E. MAGUIRE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. MAGUIRE: It is the effect of the
factfinding that is important, not what it is called. A
mandatory minimum does, in fact, increase the exposure
that a defendant is -- is exposed to because his range
then goes from five to life, which was wholly authorized
by the jury's verdict in this case, to seven to life,
and that is an increase.
And we are not talking about a right to
leniency, but a right for the judge to consider the full
range that the jury authorized. And I would note the
language in Apprendi did, in fact, address this issue of
range when it said, "One need only look to the kind,
degree, or range of punishment to which the prosecution
is, by law, entitled for a given set of facts."
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 10:59 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
54:3 25:23 38:11 appreciate attempted 30:4 43:14 51:20
33:24 alleging 5:7 10:1 8:23 17:25 authorized bit 47:19,20
47:10 10:4 18:6,11,16 16:10,12,18 Blackstone
ALLEN 1:3 20:18,25 21:2 18:17 21:5 45:17
22:4 23:7,9,22 24:5 53:14,19 blanket 5:23
43:3 29:23 30:9 average 21:23 24:1,2,7,7,22
44:21 allowed 38:19 39:6,19 40:3 aware 4:25 25:15,17,23,24
allows 10:17 48:11,24 50:6 54:2 bottom 16:13
51:14 53:20 B bound 37:21
53:20 24:10 27:4 19:21 22:6 basic 51:21 17:22 26:25
36:15 45:24,25 27:6 28:2 behalf 1:16,19 38:4
11:7 46:20,21 53:8 behave 41:16 brandishing
13:18 41:1 32:21 5:18 6:14 8:1 33:21 37:5
18:10 ample 45:2 armed 48:7 12:22 13:9,10 38:9,18 41:9
analogies 45:9 asked 38:17 18:9 21:15 41:13 42:11
43:19,20,21 assault 30:1 45:23 29:21 30:24
40:20 APPEARAN... assigning 49:1 better 39:25 38:12 43:15,24
9:24 10:8 comes 6:11 8:3 7:18,24 8:3,19
51:4,5 18:11 25:2 30:17 consistently 9:13 12:9
46:3 commit 27:3 constitute 30:8 19:15,17 20:18
causes 17:12 commits 30:14 Constitution 23:25 24:23
century 39:9 16:24 39:5 constitutional 26:13,14 33:8
certainly 4:23 45:4 22:5 25:17 47:7 48:24
34:10 compels 44:11 27:13,16 42:14 51:10 52:23
33:8 51:24 49:15 constitutionali... covered 51:14
53:11 changing 33:1 concern 25:15 44:22 create 21:10
charge 45:12 confronted 36:4 context 20:24 41:4,16 44:2
46:17 17:8,9 20:12 20:15 21:12 convert 52:22 50:17,21,21,22
5:9,16 53:4,25 29:25 30:6 36:5 44:1 52:6
7:3,5 choice 19:7 32:5,8 33:25 correct 24:14,18 crimes 40:9,22
12:3 choose 36:12,13 35:16 40:23 28:3 37:16 45:20 49:2
13:11,11 circuits 10:1,2 45:21 47:10 43:23 criminal 20:22
11:8 48:3 correctly 22:12 23:19 34:24
cited 10:9 19:16 consequences corresponding 36:8 48:7
18:18 citizen 21:18,23 4:22 48:5 critical 30:7
23:16 claim 4:10 6:25 consider 8:20 counsel 3:17 51:8
25:4,4 clear 38:8 46:24 14:21 15:11 13:21,24 16:25 criticized 7:24
28:6,23 47:10 16:10 23:17 26:8 53:25 10:8
31:8,9 clearly 47:19 37:20 40:16 country 10:19 cross-examina...
clergy 45:17,21 41:14 53:18 11:9 21:16 13:3
33:18 45:23 considering 39:3 40:7 cross-examined
36:18,22 client 11:22 8:17 23:3 country's 45:24 11:18
close 33:18 considers 7:18 course 9:19 Cunningham
45:4 column 30:14 consistency court 1:1,12 8:24
54:1,2 come 12:3 39:7 41:18 3:10,22 5:4,14 cut 28:24 50:19
12:4,7 17:4 42:9,14 45:18 42:15 40:18 42:3,5,7 driven 10:21
18:2 47:24 48:6,19 determination 42:8 48:20,20 21:24 27:2
22:12 48:21 49:22 13:15 discussion 6:10 drives 9:11 24:8
26:23 52:25 53:13 determinative 38:18 24:9
39:5,16 defendants 42:18 dishonest 36:20 driving 27:14
7:20 10:12 defendant's 52:7 distinguish 6:18 drug 9:24 10:1,5
26:3 12:23 30:9,18 determined 32:6 distinguished 10:23,25 11:2
39:19 36:7 32:8 6:16,17 11:3,22 12:7
Defender 1:16 determines distinguishing 48:1
52:23 difference 15:24 30:19 druthers 33:23
12:12 defer 33:24,25 27:22 29:6,8 doctrine 8:3,4 33:24
25:18 35:2,12 29:14 31:2,7 doing 11:11 due 6:9,25
37:9 deference 36:16 31:18,20 34:20 15:22,23 45:3 D.C 1:8,19
46:22 deferring 34:4,5 44:3,6 Dorothy 50:11
8:5,6 12:8 definitional 25:11 27:25 11:7 21:22 3:1,1,7 53:8
26:16 15:19 29:3 44:2 34:15 35:19 earlier 38:25
6:1,5,8,15 30:20 53:22 differently 28:5 43:14 early 16:23
8:1,4,7 democratic 35:15 51:22 dramatic 47:20 easy 38:3
9:19 48:25 49:7,13 difficult 12:19 draws 48:19 effect 5:4 6:5
26:20 deny 50:24 12:21 13:6,10 Dreeben 1:18 7:10 15:4
Department 13:21,24 2:6 26:9,10,12 24:23 25:1
12:15 diminish 30:7 31:4,14,21 35:1
49:3 39:20 discharge 49:14 33:4,12 34:10 21:13 47:25
14:22,22 deprives 49:23 14:23 15:7 38:6,24 39:24 elements 45:13
17:12,15 depriving 20:1,8 discharging 40:2,6,12,20 46:25 47:5
18:25 20:8 15:12,13 41:9 42:2,8,21,25 49:23 51:13,20
21:9 Deputy 1:18 46:19 43:7,10,23 eliminate 10:14
descriptive discourage 49:1 44:3,14,17,21 eliminates 23:24
25:7 15:19 discretion 16:8 46:14,21 47:5 embodied 50:2
22:22 23:24,25 factfinding 51:23 33:13 47:15
9:10 exposes 47:24 35:21 36:7 23:14 27:20 16:2 20:8
26:2 exposure 23:1 52:21 53:11 48:22
25:7 30:9,18 factors 7:18 fines 45:2,6 G
15:10 50:15 53:23 34:20,21 35:11 Gertrude 46:10
41:13,24 extremely 45:8 failed 22:2 37:6 43:17,19
44:10
false 19:3 43:20,21,25 Ginsburg 7:8,17
extremes 40:1 far 13:3 14:3 44:1 46:17,17 8:10 10:23
faced 37:9 Federal 1:15 4:8 five-year 22:5 give 7:15 21:19
16:6 fact 3:13 5:1 16:19 27:7 fixed 27:14 33:23 34:3,21
20:4,7 6:12,23 7:17 48:1,1 39:22 40:9 35:4,11,11
35:10 9:10,13,14 felon 38:2 fixing 19:21 36:11,12 42:6
47:13 10:18 11:18 felony 40:10 floor 16:19 48:20 52:9,13
13:11 16:15 17:12,14 field 11:13,20 focus 44:24 19:23 37:6
16:1 19:18,20,22 figuring 26:24 focused 38:19 42:1 43:20,21
23:16 21:20 22:1,2 27:1 follows 18:10 43:25,25 44:19
20:22 50:15 51:10,25 37:22 38:5 full 16:17 53:18 31:10 33:19,21
48:8 H 41:23,24 45:2 imposing 20:9 interests 20:9
half 39:9 45:5,8,16 46:2 impossible 38:1 interpretation
12:5,6 hands 36:25 10:19 21:16 26:22 intervene 52:5
13:14 hanged 40:10 40:7,21 46:10 incapable 26:24 involve 27:8
18:2,4 hanging 18:19 50:5 27:1,7 46:4
40:16 18:20 48:19 history-driven inclined 40:5 involved 40:14
happen 33:9 44:25 included 51:15 46:15
happened 22:7 holding 19:17 51:15 involves 30:2,4
happening hone 3:19 incongruous involving 11:22
9:10 happens 9:9 Honor 5:17,24 inconsistency 7:2 26:23
13:1 16:14 21:22 6:6,22 9:24 38:6 38:13,17 53:20
21:18,21 23:13 11:4 24:14,18 increase 17:17
hook 25:12 17:23 18:1 J
29:15,20 7:21 9:8,10 hypothetical 25:18 30:18 January 1:9
43:6
29:15 identity 38:13 23:23 33:9 18:19,23 19:6
20:10 32:20,25 ignoring 38:5 indicates 4:15 25:19 27:19,19
26:2 heading 44:7 illustrates 29:13 24:22 28:12,20,22
51:15 hear 3:3 47:3 30:14 indictment 5:7 32:19 33:6,21
13:16 22:7 implementing individual 12:15 36:11,18,23
held 26:5 41:20 implicated infringe 35:16 37:23 38:4,21
helps 11:19 important 3:18 32:8 40:18 42:11
25:10 hesitated 16:23 53:11 inquiry 47:14 48:12,19 49:24
28:6,6,7 hey 50:20 impose 3:14 insist 13:15 50:25 51:18,19
high 31:17 15:17 16:9,16 instances 7:25 51:25 52:2,13
higher 24:13 18:17,19 19:7 instruction 16:2 53:2,18
48:2,4 29:1 31:11 22:8,21 33:6 insufficient 8:14 judges 18:20,21
35:4 44:11 42:11 52:1 intellectually 27:3 32:21
44:10 52:10,13 53:1 44:5,15,18 L 47:24 48:8,18
51:22 53:19 46:14 47:1,3,9 Lacy 46:4 48:20,23 53:14
jury's 35:12 47:18 48:9 laid 39:6 53:15
52:20 39:1 44:12 50:10 51:4,5 21:7 22:14 line 39:18
25:20 justice 1:19 3:3 53:4,25 large 46:19 linguistic 27:22
30:20,21 3:9,17,20 4:5 Justices 3:23,24 late 46:3 little 5:4 34:19
32:1 4:21,24 5:13 3:25 Laughter 14:12 47:19
35:14 5:20 6:3,16 7:1 justify 45:5 49:6 17:1,7,10 logic 18:11
40:8 7:8,17 8:2,10 32:17 50:9 23:21 24:4
8:15,25 9:16 K logical 8:24 23:9
9:17,21 10:11 Kagan 8:25 law 3:13 15:16 long 10:3,19
13:20 14:2,10 34:17 35:8 lawyer 12:5,12 43:15,15 48:17
14:13,16 15:2 36:12 46:14 12:15 53:21
17:2,6,8,9,11 Kagan's 9:21 leading 18:12,14 loses 27:19 53:1
6:13 19:3,10,14,20 keep 40:1 legislative 4:14 low 31:12,16
10:13 19:25 20:1,5 Kennedy 12:11 46:12 lower 7:25 10:7
20:12,17,25 12:17 13:5,13 legislature 16:19 28:10,24
11:1 21:3,14 22:11 13:18,20 14:2 20:19 39:1,11 34:25,25 36:13
12:23 23:4,6,21 24:1 14:10 35:22 43:3 46:7,23 low-level 29:24
15:22,23 24:4,6,12,15 36:3 47:2 49:3,5 33:8,13 47:16
24:19 25:3,14 kilo 12:1 52:5,8,11,14 47:22
21:5 25:23 26:8,12 kind 13:16 52:20 Lucas 19:16
26:19 27:5,12 14:14 18:23 legislatures 40:5
22:2 27:17,21,23 26:24 27:15 M
41:5
23:22 28:4 29:5,6,10 46:10 53:21 48:25 machine 47:6
26:22 29:18,21 30:23 knew 48:21 length 11:1 49:5,14
29:24 30:24,25 31:1 know 7:4 11:14 leniency 26:18 Maguire 1:15
31:22 31:5,6,15,24 18:3,3,20,23 31:23,25 33:1 2:3,9 3:6,7,9
33:7,13 32:7,11,15,18 21:11 30:23 36:14 53:18 3:20 4:12,23
32:24 33:11 32:10,25 33:15 lesser 51:15 5:3,17,24 6:6
35:2 34:17,24 35:7 33:22 34:18,22 letting 26:22 6:22 7:7,8,16
35:8,22 36:3 35:8 37:18,19 let's 10:24 14:16 8:15 9:8,23
37:10,15 36:12,16 37:2 41:12,14 43:5 14:19 28:4 10:16 11:3
38:5 37:8,12,13,17 44:16 48:11 35:7 46:15 12:2,14,20
38:11,12,24 49:15 50:4 level 9:9 11:19 13:9,17,23
39:24,25 40:2 51:18,19,21 23:2,20 14:7,13,15
40:6,13,20,21 knows 9:5 30:15 levels 11:12 15:2,14 16:4
47:15 41:9,22 42:4 49:21 liberty 20:9 16:21 17:2
48:18,22 42:13,23 43:5 Krieger 10:9 life 22:6 30:5,16 18:8 19:2,14
51:11 43:8,15,24 39:13 46:17 19:24 20:4,7
21:14 24:13,17 25:4 30:17 33:10 15:25 16:1 particular 25:20
23:5,8 25:6 30:9,12 34:7 35:5 numbers 47:20 49:24 51:12
33:6 34:8,11 36:21 37:5,21 particularly
25:14 35:23,24 36:2 39:16 42:6 O 49:18
53:6,8,10 36:6 39:2,13 43:2,17 45:14 O 2:1 3:1 pass 29:25
49:1 51:10 48:14 51:17,24 24:10 40:23
6:4 8:6 maximums minimums 19:5 51:15,16 40:9 41:3
19:17 25:19 21:19 23:14 okay 15:5,14 penalty 14:20
3:25 4:13,15 35:1 36:8 41:6 43:17 50:18 18:1,25 30:12
6:17,18,24 7:2 mixing 10:2,15 once 36:4 50:15 Pennsylvania
9:14 11:4 26:16 Monday 1:9 open 10:21 people 10:1
12:24 mean 9:1 10:25 money 38:17 operating 35:20 perception 52:3
16:5 17:4 21:1 27:22,24 months 48:8 operation 15:16 perfectly 9:5
32:1,11,13 morning 3:4 opinion 3:23 4:2 period 40:18
34:22 36:17 murder 30:4 4:7 5:15,19,22 permissible
43:19 44:9 6:5,20 7:12 39:21
22:5,16 48:9 51:5 N 36:3 permitted 44:12
52:12 N 2:1,1 3:1 opinions 7:23 permitting 44:9
means 8:8 31:10 narrow 8:11 38:12 person 38:14
25:1,3 31:12 natural 18:10 oral 1:11 2:2,5 Petitioner 1:4
26:17,23 meant 21:18 nature 19:8 3:7 26:10 1:17 2:4,10 3:8
30:17 29:22 25:15 order 14:4 37:13,19 40:15
34:7,16 memory 16:25 neck 38:16 ought 47:14 53:9
36:8,21 mentioned need 27:13 overcome 29:7 philosophy 52:4
41:6 10:23 17:21 53:21 overrule 8:4 pillar 45:15 46:2
43:1,16 mercy 27:18 needs 27:13 overturn 46:11 pillars 45:7
48:14 49:24 53:2 neighboring O'Brien 19:15 play 44:25
53:12 mere 16:15 22:7 52:2 46:22 47:6 playing 11:13,20
3:7 53:8 minimum 3:12 new 50:16,17,17 P 3:1 plurality 3:22
16:6 17:5,15 nobody's 34:23 44:7 plus 13:7 48:2
21:8 17:16,17 18:5 note 4:13 5:25 paragraph 6:11 point 11:7 18:15
34:2,22 18:18,22 19:9 53:19 6:24 28:17,19,22
47:12 19:12,19 22:5 noted 7:21 23:18 parallel 45:11 29:17,23 38:25
22:16,18,19,20 notion 16:7 pardon 45:18 39:10 43:16,22
22:6 26:17 27:20 number 9:4 40:21 45:24 poses 3:21 6:15
8:10 12:19 prison 30:2,3,16 20:11 30:19 26:15 requiring 10:13
13:22,24 probably 50:12 34:8,11 36:8 real 12:18 14:19 reserve 26:6
35:10 problem 3:21 53:22 39:15 respect 7:14
4:5 6:15 10:12 punishments realize 14:18 37:1
9:9 23:2 procedure 44:23 13:23 28:4,12 reason 47:18 responsive 9:20
45:16 28:13,13 38:16 reasonable 3:15 result 5:22 22:3
process 6:10,25 44:6 34:14 35:19 resulting 23:11
progeny 39:6 Q 43:14 Richmond 1:16
41:8 41:18 15:20 20:16 27:9 15:1,18 19:24
22:8 3:13 21:19 26:21 27:17 2:8 53:8 27:18 28:8
39:17 53:22 29:12 31:3 recognized 40:3 30:21 31:22,23
42:5,20 prosecutor 33:13 34:6 reduced 29:24 32:4 33:17,21
43:2 20:10 45:12 39:18 43:8 reduction 51:11 35:17 37:25
51:23 prosecutors 5:6 questions 5:25 refer 6:23 42:10,14 43:14
protect 21:18 quite 10:6 25:11 referred 4:15 46:18,19 47:11
22:19 protecting 12:22 38:3 reflects 36:14 49:23 50:1,12
39:20 quoted 22:11,14 regard 11:20 51:1,11 52:9
protects 30:9 R relationship risk 18:25 22:24
13:1 21:21 raised 46:5 47:7 relying 4:8 9:17 17:8
proved 11:6 16:13,18 19:6 remainder 26:6 53:4,25
punishable 30:1 53:21,22 reply 44:7 10:8,10 11:5
punishment ratified 46:1 required 5:2 13:17 14:1,1
21:21 22:13,17,18,20 shows 21:17 27:5,12,17 stick 8:5
39:25 22:22 23:11,15 shrunk 33:7 30:23,25 38:24 stigma 20:10
48:11 23:23 24:9 side 29:21 39:25 40:2,21 stole 40:9
28:11,21 silent 4:17 42:23 43:5,8 strained 45:8
25:12 44:19 45:15,19 18:22 40:8,17 so-called 51:14 16:17
39:12 45:23 47:25 45:10 49:17 speak 36:15 structural 48:24
49:6 48:18,21,23 50:1 special 5:11 22:2 structured 4:9
15:11 52:18 46:5 spirited 7:23 subject 13:3
22:20 sentenced 19:18 sitting 38:15 spoke 46:6 17:13,14,18,19
33:16,19 23:19 28:2 situation 25:6 standard 16:16 submit 27:4
35:24 sentences 21:2 25:12 29:14,15 stare 3:19,21 submitted 54:1
37:17 35:5 40:23,24 30:11 32:4 5:14 6:1,5,8,15 54:3
45:14 40:25 41:20,24 33:3,5 34:20 7:10,18 8:1,3,7 subsequent 39:6
51:25 44:11 49:2 47:22 49:11,12 8:11,17 9:19 subset 51:12
16:21 22:7 27:10 situations 11:13 44:24 sufficiently 52:6
31:11,13,16,17 Sixth 4:20 6:9 started 17:8 suggest 46:9
19:3 35:19 39:3,7 6:10,20,21,23 39:3 40:7,11 47:21
21:3 45:14 48:7 7:3 8:21 12:23 40:16 suggested 9:5
23:4,6 49:16,20 51:18 15:9,21 20:16 state 27:24 21:3
25:3,14 52:4 21:10,15,16 stated 27:25 suggesting
29:18 serious 47:24 22:9 23:12 States 1:1,6,12 34:18
37:8,12 49:15 52:6 24:10 25:22 3:5 4:8 26:15 suggestion 8:9
40:6 set 39:15 40:23 27:4 30:20 27:3 45:22 suggests 46:23
47:3 44:11 49:24 31:21 36:15 statistics 19:11 47:13
53:23 45:24,25 50:2 status 51:9 supplant 39:1
45:15 setting 14:20 Solicitor 1:18 14:17,23 15:10 39:12
16:16 17:22 somebody 10:21 23:20 25:9 47:1,9,9
39:2 33:17 34:3,15 sorry 3:24 30:25 33:9,16 34:12 Supreme 1:1,12
50:14 34:21 36:19,21 41:22 43:20 41:10 45:7,18 sure 20:13 21:6
15:17 severe 3:14 9:11 3:20 4:5,21,24 statutory 10:3 34:25 39:11,20
17:3,5 20:11 30:19 9:16 19:10,14 36:6 45:11,13
show 49:24 19:20 20:1,5 Stein 46:10 T
20:3 showing 45:5 24:1,4,6,12,15 50:11 T 2:1,1
21:1,24 shown 36:23 24:19 26:19 step 9:19 23:10 take 7:9 14:13
33:15 50:10 27:11 violation 15:9 we've 7:21 23:18
46:14 three 28:15 45:7 understand 9:16 21:10 48:6 whatsoever
49:16,17 46:3 21:8 22:25 violence 41:16 38:18
today 8:24 43:9 unfairness witness 13:2
51:22 52:7 United 1:1,6,12 34:21 41:16 27:24 47:4
29:2 45:22 wanted 46:8 31:2,7
35:16 38:13,17 9:22,24 10:6 Washington 1:8 world 28:5,9
23:7,8 49:22 51:11 uphold 3:24 wasn't 7:4 12:6 worse 28:13,14
53:1 upside 29:22 17:6 25:3 28:6 28:18 41:15
52:21 11:4,18 17:4 use 36:6 48:2,4 way 21:13 38:7 wouldn't 10:11
8:2 9:23 43:2 uttered 16:22 ways 21:1 52:16 wrong 4:6 9:2
13:13 triggers 4:18 52:19 9:18 40:7
19:2,4 9:14 V weak 45:8 wrote 34:19
21:16 trouble 44:16 v 1:5 3:4 26:15 weakest 6:1 8:1
24:3 true 23:4,6 36:2 26:16 41:21 weakness 6:1 X
29:7,11 51:2,5 value 5:18 week 52:24 x 1:2,7
truth 34:2,22 verbatim 16:24 weigh 12:1 13:7
36:1,22 trying 49:19 verdict 5:11 weight 7:12 8:12 Y
38:7 turn 28:20,21 10:22 16:10,12 8:13,14 10:1 year 17:20 23:17
42:3 turning 32:2 16:18 21:24,25 10:24,25 11:2 28:15 30:1
43:10 turns 27:17,23 22:1,2 33:24 11:3,22 12:7 years 9:4 10:4
46:22 28:7,10,11 33:25 35:2,12 25:24 26:2 14:18,20 15:6
48:3 two 16:1 28:7,15 42:10 44:12 52:21 15:7 16:9,13
50:12 type 45:7 47:23 48:18 weights 10:5 16:16 17:20,22
U verdicts 10:19 weren't 11:25 22:20,21,23,24
20:25 unconstitutio... 28:17,19,22 we're 14:2 39:16 32:9 33:23
44:6 15:8,15 20:19 48:17 46:19 48:13 34:3,15 36:19
41:1 60 46:19
43:17
7
47:7 7 15:12 25:13
49:5
9
15:13
920 35:6
14:18,19 924(c) 4:16,17
18:4,5 5:1 19:11,18
22:20,23 23:19 30:15
25:9,13 39:13 41:7
45:7 48:6
1:13 3:2 97-year 34:23
54:2 9841 9:25
1:4 3:4
1:9
25:10
40:22
46:3
4:14
10:4
41:6
1:9
2:7
2:4
47:7
45:20
29:13,19
48:8
46:18 48:15
14:18,19
7:20
2:10
46:16
44:7
