IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ARMARCION D. HENDERSON, :
Petitioner : No. 11-9307
v. :
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, November 28, 2012
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PATRICIA A. GILLEY, ESQ., Shreveport, Louisiana;
appointed by this Court.
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PATRICIA A. GILLEY, ESQ.
Appointed by this Court 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning in Case 11-9307, Henderson v. United
States.
Ms. Gilley.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. GILLEY
APPOINTED BY THIS COURT
MS. GILLEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
There are three primary points I would like
to focus on this morning during my argument. First, the
question presented by Mr. Henderson involves a very
small subset of cases which are -- which come before the
Court under Rule 55 -- 52(b) each year.
These are the cases that were referred to as
the special case in the Olano decision. They have
errors which, at the time of trial, were unsettled or
unclear; but, by the time they made it to the appellate
court, they had become clear by a clarifying rule or a
decision.
Second --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what about the time
they come up here? 52(b) applies to every court, does
it not?
MS. GILLEY: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So suppose there's been --
been no objection to a uncertain question of -- on an
uncertain question of law until the case gets here.
Can -- can counsel argue that this Court should
nonetheless review the case because, if we agree with
counsel, thereupon, the law would be clear? When we
issued our decision, the law would be clear.
MS. GILLEY: I believe that the Court would
have the authority to do that because it says if it is
on direct appeal or not yet final. So it would not yet
be final unless the time had expired for the petitioner
to get to the Supreme Court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I wonder how we would
go about deciding whether we would take such a case or
not. We'd take all -- all those cases where counsel
says, I didn't -- we didn't raise any of these
objections, neither in the court of appeals nor in the
district court; but, if you agree -- if you agree with
me, Your Honors, that the law is thus and so, once you
say that, that will make the decisions below clear
error, and, therefore, you should be able to reverse it.
Makes sense, right?
MS. GILLEY: Well, I believe the Supreme
Court has, under its own special rules, the -- the
ability to take an argument in -- a petition that has
not been raised before, but on its own could accept it
if it is clear at the time --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then what your --
your first answer was that this is a very small set of
cases that you're dealing with. If your answer to
Justice Scalia is yes, this Court could take a case
that's unsettled and, by settling it, make the error
plain. That would open the door to a huge number of
cases, wouldn't it?
MS. GILLEY: I don't believe so, Your Honor.
I believe that the provisions to get to the Supreme
Court -- frankly, I don't know the answer as to if you
had skipped the -- the appellate court, and -- and we're
still in that window of time, that transition period
after the appellate court had ruled, and only then the
clarifying error came, I think you could still come to
the Supreme Court.
But the very narrow -- the very narrow --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it would be narrow
in the sense that substantial rights would have to be
affected and the other conditions of Olano met.
But I think, consequent on Justice Scalia's
question is, that itself would be another issue in every
case. Is this one of those cases: Number one, it was
wrong; number two, it's new; number three, is it clear
under all the Olano criteria. And that would have to be
decided in every case.
MS. GILLEY: Well, Your Honor, I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So at the end of the day,
it could be a small subset of cases, but the number that
would be presented, both to this Court and the court of
appeals, would be quite substantial.
MS. GILLEY: Well, I think there would be
very few that would come directly to the Supreme Court.
The vast majority of the cases obviously would come
through the circuits.
And what I was referring to as a very small
subset would be those cases where there is actually an
unsettled error -- an unsettled claimed error at the
trial.
There are very few cases that would come out
of the Supreme Court during the period of time of appeal
that would allow for the petitioner to -- to say, well,
now it's clear.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, this is a -- I
mean, the time from the district court decision in this
case to today is how long?
MS. GILLEY: It's -- well, this case started
in 2009. My client pled guilty in June of 2010.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's 2 years --
in any case in which -- in a typical case in which this
happens, you've got 2 years of cases, right?
MS. GILLEY: I think that my -- this case,
Mr. Henderson's case, is unusually long. In fact, it
was a year between the time he was sentenced in June of
2010 until 2000 -- June of 2011, when Tapia was decided.
So he was actually waiting between the
period of the trial stage to -- into the Fifth Circuit
for over a year before Tapia was even decided, and then
several months after that before the Fifth Circuit ruled
on the issue.
So this is an unusually long period of time.
I don't think that that's common. I think the vast
majority of the cases do not come within that
transitional period. As -- as the Fifth Circuit noticed
after Mr. Henderson's case in Escalante-Reyes, they sua
sponte had their own -- they called for an en banc in
Escalante-Reyes and changed the position that they had
in Mr. Henderson's case.
JUSTICE ALITO: May I ask you what you think
is the purpose of the Plain-Error Rule?
Suppose that it was proposed to amend
Rule 52(b) to take out the word "plain," so that the
rule would read simply, "an error that affects
substantial rights may be considered even though it was
not brought to the Court's attention."
So what does -- in your judgment, what does
the word "plain" add? What -- what purposes does it
serve?
MS. GILLEY: Your Honor, it serves a very
important purpose. And I must say that my understanding
of that has evolved considerably since I started
researching this issue.
I think it's very important. And it
certainly is helpful to -- to the practitioner because
when you come to the appellate court, and you say, now,
I have a -- a decision, it is now plain, or I have a
rule -- a statute, that now makes this plain, it -- it
is a very important prong in the Olano --
JUSTICE ALITO: But what purpose does it
serve? Why should the rule not be that if -- if some --
if there was an error, and it was a really -- it was an
error that really badly hurt the defendant, then it can
be considered, even though it wasn't raised at whatever
time it has to have been -- it wasn't raised, there
wasn't an objection? What purpose does that serve?
MS. GILLEY: The purpose of -- of 52(b)
is -- is a safety belt for the very extreme measures of
Rule 51, which says if you -- if you fail to raise
contemporaneously --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, but I'm not asking
why we have -- why we permit plain errors to be raised.
I'm asking why do we require that the error be plain in
order for it to be considered?
Let me suggest two purposes it serves. It
follows from the adversary system, and it serves
judicial efficiency.
Would you agree with that; those are the
purposes of it?
MS. GILLEY: I absolutely would. Yes. Yes,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. Does it serve
those purposes better as applied at the time of trial or
at the time of appeal?
MS. GILLEY: The finding, the assessment of
plain error; is that the question you're --
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes.
MS. GILLEY: I think that it very much helps
to assess and evaluate the plainness of the error at the
time of appeal. That -- that is where it can really be
helpful. And that, in fact, is what the Court did in
both Olano and --
JUSTICE ALITO: Does it serve -- does it
serve judicial efficiency better to say that we apply
the Plain-Error Rule at the time of trial or at the time
of appeal?
MS. GILLEY: I think that it serves judicial
efficiency very much better, as amicus very well stated
in his brief, the example of the Ninth Circuit, where,
if you don't have plain error, and then the appellate
court must go back to the trial level, the trial stage,
and determine was this, was this clear at the time of
trial? Was it clearly against the defendant? Was it
clearly --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if you apply it at the
time of trial, it may -- eliminate the need for an
appellate court, under some circumstances, to get to the
ultimate question of whether there was error; or, it
could say, there might have been error, but it wasn't --
it's not plain to us, I suppose. So you have that
efficiency.
But if you apply it at the time of trial,
you avoid retrials. So which is -- which of those two
is more consistent with the purpose of serving judicial
efficiency?
MS. GILLEY: Well, I'm not sure that that
would be a correct assessment. I think that the
judicial efficiency would be more at the time of appeal
because, as many of the circuits have noticed, that's
what they are going -- they agree. I think it's -- you
know, 8 to -- 8 to 2 that they find --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But when, as is the
situation in this case, the law is uncertain at the time
of trial, and there are some circuits that have gone one
way, some circuits that have gone the other way, surely
it greatly serves efficiency to bring that situation to
the attention of the judge.
He has a 50 percent chance of getting it
right. And if he gets it right, then the case is done.
Instead, your -- your client did not raise any
objection, and the judge just went ahead.
Now, if -- if the error was plain, you can
say, well, he didn't need an objection, any -- any dumb
judge would have -- would have known this. Okay? So
you make that kind of an exception. But I don't see the
reason for making that exception, where you could have
brought this to the judge's attention, and he could have
solved the problem; or, if he didn't solve it, maybe the
prosecutor could have, by making some alteration in what
he was demanding as a -- as a punishment or whatever.
That -- that seems to me such a -- such a
clear efficiency in the system. I don't know what the
efficiency is when you do it at the court of appeals
level. All you tell me is that, well, it saves you the
trouble of going back and figuring out what -- what the
situation was at the trial -- at the time of trial,
right? But you've got to go back to the time of trial
anyway to decide whether -- whether substantial rights
have been affected, don't you?
MS. GILLEY: Well, I think, Your Honor,
multiple parts to that question.
First of all, I think there -- I think that
the cases -- the solicitors, the responders --
Respondents have conflated the idea of why we have
52(b). It's not primarily for the efficiency of the
judicial system. It's to -- it's to correct a very
serious wrong, an injustice that was incurred by the
defendant. That's the primary purpose of 52(b).
And then, if you look at it the way the
Court would -- the solicitors would have -- have the
Court decide at time of trial, there would be no remedy
for --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but there's -- this
brings you back to Justice Alito's question. There's
always an injustice when the district court has gotten
it wrong. The district court got it wrong, applied the
wrong rule. Justice has not been served.
But we don't say, we want to do justice. We
say, we're only going to do justice if it was clear.
Now, why -- why would you -- why would you
have that limitation on it? The only -- the only reason
that limitation makes sense to me is -- is because when
it is clear, it doesn't have to be raised below. The
judge ought to know better, anyway, and so you're not
sacrificing any efficiency.
But if the whole purpose of it is just to do
justice, I don't understand the reason for the clear
limitation. Why should it only be when it's clear?
MS. GILLEY: Well, we have the rules going
back to the Atkinson case. And the question was what
happens when we have the very serious Rule 51, if you
don't have contemporaneous objection, you're out of
luck?
Fortunately, we have the safety belt of
52(b).
And then this Court, looking at the --
what -- what was codified from Atkinson, has the
four-prong test. First, we have an error. It must be
clear. The -- the reason for having it clear, first of
all, it -- it creates efficiency in the -- in the
appellate level court. The practitioner can now come
and say, my client has a clear error. Tapia has now
been decided, and it is clear. It was only unclear and
unsettled at the time we were in court.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose one answer to
Justice Scalia's question is that, well, if you require
an objection, and you have to have a laundry list of
everything that might change, but the answer to that,
in turn, is, if -- if you use that rationale, then we're
just asking the attorney to conceal from the judge
every -- everything that's important.
MS. GILLEY: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It would seem to me the
laundry list, even though that's perhaps an initial
objection to Justice Scalia's concern, is, frankly,
preferable to a system where we just don't -- don't talk
about what might be clear error.
MS. GILLEY: Well, I think we must talk
about clear error. And -- and I think that in my -- my
briefing, in my -- in my beginning to the closing brief,
and certainly in the amicus brief, which is an excellent
source on this point. When the Court looked at both --
52(b) in both Olano and Johnson, they looked to the
text, that this Court looked to the text of 52(b). And
the clear error that they looked at was they decided
those cases on the basis that the error was clear at the
time of trial.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where in Johnson did
they -- I'm looking at the para -- two paragraphs the
Court spent on this in Johnson. Where did they look at
the text?
I mean, obviously, they quoted the text, but
the analysis seems to me to be based solely on judicial
efficiency.
MS. GILLEY: I think -- and -- and I would
like to refer to Judge Owens' concurring and dissenting
opinion in Escalante-Reyes in the Fifth Circuit. She
addressed this quite well in three pages of her -- of
her opinion, where the Justice did, in a unanimous
opinion, state in -- let's see, I think footnote 5 --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. I'm looking at
where they talked about this particular question, the
second prong, as they -- they put it.
MS. GILLEY: Well, I believe that what
Justice Rehnquist looked to was the text of --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He was the Chief
Justice, by the way.
MS. GILLEY: I'm sorry. Chief Justice
Rehnquist.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It matters to one of
us.
(Laughter.)
MS. GILLEY: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's okay.
(Laughter.)
MS. GILLEY: And -- and I noticed in my
record that I, in fact, had promoted Justice Clark in my
brief, which the errata shows, and so I'm -- I'm not
perfect.
But the -- Justice Rehnquist looked -- and
he talked specifically about looking at -- at 52(b) and
saying, "We're not going to expand on it. We're not
going to cut it out of new cloth. We're not going to
make new exceptions. We looked for it as -- as -- as it
is."
And I think that was just a couple of lines
after acknowledging the fact that the petitioner said,
well, it would have been a laundry list, and that's
inconvenient, and it's futile, and it's a waste of time.
But that, I think, was more of an argument that went
along with what the Chief Justice wrote, that we're
looking at the text, and it just doesn't make any sense.
We've got Olano that says, at the very
minimum, the error must be clear at the time of appeal.
JUSTICE BREYER: I want to go back to
Justice Alito's question for a moment because I
thought -- and Justice Scalia. I thought, in your
brief, you -- you said that their point's a good point.
Their point is that the system works in a way that
requires the lawyer to object at the trial. Alright.
And that is an efficiency because the trial judge has to
-- has to correct -- he has to -- has an opportunity to
correct mistakes. He can't be sandbagged.
But, you said, that's theoretically always
true, but, in your case, as a practical matter, it's
really never true because no lawyer is ever going to
think, oh, I would object, but I'm not going to object
because maybe the law will become clarified by the
Supreme Court, and I'll be able to get a plain error
thing on appeal. The lawyer who thought that is like
the unicorn, he doesn't really exist.
(Laughter.)
Okay. And you then said, on the other hand,
there's an efficiency on the other side. The efficiency
on the other side is if you don't take your rule, when
you get to the court of appeals, you're going to have to
decide in real cases whether the law was so clear that
the plain error doctrine still does apply at the trial
level before. Either it was clear that the judge was
wrong, or it was clear the judge was right, and there is
no point to objecting.
So now we have to decide, was he clearly
wrong, was he clearly right, or was it a middle case.
And when you get to real legal cases that have tough
issues, you discover that that's a hard question to ask
-- answer case by case, court by court. Now, didn't you
say all that?
MS. GILLEY: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Well, then why
didn't I hear you say it again.
JUSTICE ALITO: Then let me ask you this
question. Counsel, then let me ask you this related
question. Something happens at trial. There isn't an
objection. It goes up on appeal. And the -- the
appellate court, there is an argument about whether it's
a plain error or not.
And the appellate court says, first of all,
we think it was an error, but it's a -- it was a close
question. We had trouble with this. So it wasn't
plain, and, therefore, this defendant is out of luck.
What's the justification for that?
MS. GILLEY: I think that the four prongs of
Olano are the justification. That's where I would have
been --
JUSTICE ALITO: No, I mean in real world
terms. What -- what purpose is served by that?
If the court has concluded that there was an
error, and it affected substantial rights, but it wasn't
plain, what -- what justification is there for saying,
that's too bad? You know, you really got hurt, but it
wasn't clear until -- you know, it wasn't plain until we
decided this case, so go back to prison.
What's the purpose for that?
MS. GILLEY: Well, there -- there is no
purpose for that. And -- and the --
JUSTICE ALITO: Then why should it have to
be plain at the time of appeal?
MS. GILLEY: But the appellate court has the
responsibility of applying the law as it is current.
That's what the appellate court is directed to do.
That's what Atkinson -- that's what -- even what
Atkinson said. You apply the law at -- as it is
current.
And so what you're doing by interpreting
time of trial as a point of determining the clarity
of -- of the error, you are completely eliminating the
ability for the appellate court to even rule on that
question because there will never, ever be a plain error
if you apply the time of trial as the point of
determining whether it was clear or not.
People like Armarcion Henderson would never
have an opportunity to -- to have plain error because it
would never be clear. We have to have --
JUSTICE ALITO: You could promote efficiency
at the appellate stage by having a rule like the rule
that we have in qualified immunity cases, which gives a
court the discretion to decide whether something was
clear or go to the -- to the merits of the -- of the
argument. You could -- that's -- you can serve
efficiency by having that.
But the Plain-Error Rule doesn't do that.
In the situation I gave you, the court would say there
was an error, it really affected your substantial
rights, but we can't say it was plain to us until we
decided this case, and, therefore, you get no relief.
And -- and maybe there's a reason for that. I'm waiting
for you to tell me what the reason for it is.
MS. GILLEY: Well, the -- the reason would
be similar to what Mr. Henderson faced in the
three-judge panel. The -- the judge -- the panel said
that the error was -- was clear, as far as they -- they
know it happened. Tapia said it happened, and -- and
there was no question about that; but, the fact that it
was not clear at the time of trial defeated
Mr. Henderson's ability to get relief.
So even though the -- the Congress said, you
shouldn't put these people in jail for the purpose of
rehabilitation, it was clear -- everybody agreed it was
wrong, but my client, instead of having the recommended
33 to 41 months, received a 60-month sentence. That's
unjust.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was there a reason -- I
think you represented your client at the trial.
MS. GILLEY: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there a reason why you
didn't bring this up when the judge imposed that
sentence?
I mean, there was -- one thing is Tapia;
but, before that, there was a statute that says, judge,
don't lengthen sentences for purposes of rehabilitation.
And you didn't call that statute to the attention of
the -- of the judge, did you?
MS. GILLEY: I did not, Your Honor. And
that was a -- I knew that there was -- certainly, I was
concerned, and I was -- that the -- the sentence was so
much beyond what the sentencing guidelines had -- had
recommended.
There was -- the situation was I knew that
at that point the guidelines were advisory. I couldn't
figure -- at that point --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Were you -- were you
aware of the statute at the time?
MS. GILLEY: I was not. In fact, I was not
aware of that statute. And when I -- I did file a Rule
35(a) motion eight days later. After I went and did my
research, I realized there was only one case that I
could find, In re Sealed out of the District of Columbia
circuit, which had addressed that particular statute.
And so I did file a Rule 35(a) motion
timely, eight days after, and asked the trial court,
based on 35(82)(a) to please correct that error in the
sentencing.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And let me ask you, I
don't wish to sidetrack the discussion on the
metaphysics of the Plain-Error Rule, because it's
important and it's the -- part of the case, but in this
case, there wasn't going to be a new trial. There
wasn't going to be a new jury. It's just the sentence.
Has any argument been made that we should
have a different rule for sentences than for errors that
would require a new -- a complete new trial?
MS. GILLEY: Your Honor, certainly
Petitioner has not made that; but, there are so many law
review articles out there right now on ways of changing
plain-error review, it might --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Some circuits have even
said that. Some circuits have even said that.
MS. GILLEY: Yes. That is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The Second Circuit says
that if it's a sentencing error, that the amount of
substantial rights and the integrity of fairness of the
preceding question is a different balance.
MS. GILLEY: That is correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: So you can -- if you lose,
you can't get through the door. If you win, you then
have to go on to the next part of it, which says, did
the error affect the fairness, integrity or public
reputation of judicial proceedings.
So if all that's at stake is a resentencing,
not much harm is done, and you're more likely to satisfy
the fourth.
MS. GILLEY: And the third.
JUSTICE BREYER: If what's at stake is a
whole new trial and everything, it's probably a little
bit harder to satisfy that prong.
So it's possible to build what Justice
Kennedy was referring to into the present rule, isn't
it?
MS. GILLEY: It could -- it could be
possible, and it could be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why is that so? Why
is that so? Why does -- does the effect upon the
fairness of the proceedings change when it's sentencing
or when it's the merits? I don't understand that.
MS. GILLEY: Well, I think that whenever --
and I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're -- you're here
complaining about sentencing. That's a substantial
issue, isn't it?
MS. GILLEY: It is very substantial. And
there's a recent case out of the Eleventh Circuit that I
was going to call to the Court's attention, Judge
Gorsuch. And his -- his comment was, "This is such a
serious, serious situation when we sentence a man or a
woman to a time in prison when Congress says he should
not be there. That is one of the ultimate injustices
that we should look at."
And -- and I think that's looking at it from
the -- having a separate -- separate review system for
sentencing certainly might be helpful. It could
certainly be more speedy, although, frankly, in my case
it would not have helped Mr. Henderson because it took
Tapia a year after my client was sentenced before Tapia
was decided.
Of course, I think the argument could have
been made and I certainly would have made it at the
Fifth Circuit if Tapia had not been decided by the time
we made it to the Fifth Circuit, I would have argued
that it was clear error regardless. The statute was
very clear in that it was -- it was certainly -- when
the Court eventually did look at Tapia, they used the
straightforward -- you used the straightforward language
of it.
But I think that, that the main, the main
point -- another point that I did want to make is that
by deciding that plainness should be determined at the
time of appeal, this Court would be consistent with its
holdings in Olano and in Johnson, because in Olano, the
Court said it would be, in this case, it is adequate
that the error is plain at the time of appeal.
In Johnson, the Court said there was, in
fact, no error at the time of trial, but it is clear at
the time of appeal. And so in both of those cases, the
text of 52(b), which is on page 1 in my brief, the text
of the brief is what the Court relied on and the Court,
the Court said that based on that test, it's adequate
that the Court find the appeal -- find the error plain
at the time of appeal.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How many months are left
for the defendant's sentence?
MS. GILLEY: He is scheduled to be released
in May of 2013. He never did get the, the in-depth
treatment program.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He didn't?
MS. GILLEY: He did not, and it's unlikely
he would have ever gotten it because of the fact that he
had a gun charge. He pled guilty to a felon in
possession of a firearm, which puts the -- the
individual at a very low eligibility for getting into
the program.
The RDAP program is very highly coveted
because if completed successfully, it reduces the time
that you are going to be incarcerated.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the judge was not
aware of those impediments?
MS. GILLEY: The judge was very well aware,
and that was part of the problem that we had. I was
arguing at the time of sentencing for mitigating
circumstances that, that my client really hadn't done
anything and he had possessed this gun for about 10
minutes. The facts are not important to this Court, but
he had done nothing seriously wrong with this.
He did, in fact, commit the crime and he was
ready to take the punishment. The sentencing guideline
range was 33 to 41. I did not object, the government
did not object, and so I assumed it would be in that
range.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Wall.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY B. WALL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, may it please
the Court:
The contemporaneous --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Was Justice Breyer
essentially correct that in most of the cases where an
error is not plain at the time of trial that the third
and fourth prong of Olano almost always take care of the
issue? I mean, I've been looking for a case in this
Court in which more substantial errors than the one that
occurred here -- we are going to put aside the fact that
I don't see how this Defendant on the third or fourth
could ever win, given that he was begging for drug
treatment during his sentencing, so how a resentence
would affect the fairness or integrity of this
proceeding is beyond my understanding.
But isn't Justice Breyer right?
MR. WALL: No. Not in the government's
view. I think it's a question for another day how much
work the fourth prong is doing in the lower courts, but
I would say in all of these cases, the defendant is
claiming that his sentence was lengthened. I think in
all of them he will be able to meet the third prong and
show that his substantial rights were affected. It
becomes a fourth prong question then.
And in the Escalante-Reyes case, one of the
dissenting opinions attached an appendix in which the
Fifth Circuit, in 181 cases, had found that fourth prong
met and had found plain error satisfied. But I would
think it --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I would say to you
that that's more in keeping with the attitude that
Justice Kennedy asked about, which is I think most
circuit courts believe the fourth prong is more easily
met in sentencing than in trial cases. Whether they are
right about that, that's not an issue we are facing
today.
MR. WALL: The Second Circuit has adopted
that rule. I don't know that other courts have but it's
really -- the prongs of the plain-error review test are
meant to serve different purposes. The third and fourth
prongs are looking at harms to the defendant and to the
judicial -- the integrity of the judicial proceedings.
The second prong is really designed to do something
different. It's designed to enforce the contemporaneous
objection requirement by isolating errors --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But why? The very
essence of 52(b) is when you don't make an objection. I
mean, it's treating two -- it's addressing two different
situations; A says when you've made an objection, you
just have to prove prejudice; and B says you have to
prove that substantial rights are affected.
MR. WALL: Oh, no question. The purpose of
that prong is to isolate out one set of errors, obvious
errors, from all of the other trial errors that happen
every day that are not correctable under Rule 52,
debatable errors that even reasonably experienced
district court judges and prosecutors might have
overlooked in the hustle and bustle of a trial.
That second prong is designed to say, "We
want," as the Court said in Frady, "obvious egregious
errors that the trial court and the prosecutor were
derelict in countenancing." Because there we are not as
worried about incentivizing the defendant to make a
contemporaneous objection, because every party in the
courtroom should have known and applied the law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Wall, why doesn't
that describe this case? In here is a statute, never
mind Tapia, the statute says to the judge, don't
lengthen the defendant's sentences for purposes of some
cure. And if the judge was not aware of that statute,
he surely should have been, the prosecutor shouldn't --
wasn't it incumbent on the prosecutor to tell the judge,
Judge, sorry, you can't do that?
MR. WALL: Justice Ginsburg, I think it cuts
actually exactly the opposite way. There was a
long-standing circuit split that the Court resolved in
Tapia. Courts have reached different conclusions on
this. And if the Defendant here had said, look,
district court, you shouldn't lengthen my sentence based
on rehabilitative purposes.
Some courts have found that is impermissible
and you should follow those courts, not the courts that
have permitted it, I think a fair reading of the
sentencing transcript is that the district court was
genuinely on the fence here about what to do with this
particular defendant and whether to lengthen his
sentence.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he was not aware of
the statute. No one called it to his attention.
MR. WALL: No. It is then exactly the kind
of debatable, open, unsettled legal question that our
adversarial system counts on parties to raise every day.
And what we do in Rule 52 is we have a narrow safety
valve for obvious errors that everyone in the courtroom
should have caught. But I don't think that we can say
that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what about the -- I
mean, that's the question. The word "plain" of course
refers by and large to an error that the lower court
judge should have caught, so you should have objected.
But why limit it exclusively to that; that is, you
have -- you know, they quote the Schooner, Peggy and
Chief Justice Marshall and back to the history of
Hammurabi, as far as we know, that sometimes there is a
case where just simple fairness, plus the fact that the
law is now plain, means that the appellate court should
treat this person the same as a thousand others who now
will be treated according to the new law.
And indeed, you're complicating it even
further for the reason that I really meant my question
to be aimed at you -- you know. I mean, in fact, the
reason that I said that you're going to create
distinctions, there will be a case, the fellow is going
to go to jail for 50 extra years, the law is plain that
he shouldn't, that didn't come about until the appeal.
And here we have six identical people in the
circuit where the law was clear one way and they get the
new rule's advantage, and six identical people in
another circuit where the law was clear the other way
and they get the advantage. But in the one circuit
where the law wasn't clear, he doesn't get the advantage
of the new rule.
Now, that seems pretty unfair, and I could
at least make up some cases where it's just a horror.
And if that's so, why don't we leave plain with enough
wiggle room so that where it's fair, the judge on the
Court of Appeals can say, it is now plain and the other
things are satisfied so we apply it to the defendant.
That's the whole long question that I've got every part
of it in there.
MR. WALL: And I'll see if I can get them
all in. So all I can say to you, Justice Breyer, is the
same thing the Court has said in Puckett, Dominguez,
Benitez, Young, the Rule 52 has an interest in error
correction, egregious error correction, no question.
But it is balanced against a very important systemic
interest in judicial efficiency. And far from being a
horror, that's a necessary corollary of our system --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Wall, your whole
argument about judicial efficiency is an incentives
argument, and it depends upon the notion that a lawyer
is going to change their behavior, a lawyer is going to
make an objection that he otherwise wouldn't have made
if the rule that Ms. Gilley proposes is accepted. And
this goes back to what Justice Breyer said earlier.
I don't know of a lawyer who would say the
following to himself: I'm not going to make this
objection because I'm just going to assume that sometime
between now and my direct appeal the law is going to
change, and it's going to change in my favor, and when
it changes, I'm going to be able to make this objection
and get over not only prong two but prong three and four
of the test, and life will be grand for my client.
Now, who is going to say that?
MR. WALL: Justice Kagan, it's not just
about incentives. Even if I granted that the incentives
of defendants would be entirely unchanged no matter what
rule this Court adopted, and I don't grant that for all
the reasons in our brief.
But even if I thought that were right, every
time a Court of Appeals or this Court issued an
intervening decision of criminal law or criminal
procedure, a set of defendants who had not raised a
claim of that error at trial would come in to the Court
of Appeals or this Court with a claim of plain error.
And what we would see is a significant shift
of judicial resources to plain-error cases, to do
fact-intensive third and fourth prong review to consider
a set of errors that were never meant to be put on the
table under Rule 52(b). That's not what this safety
valve was designed to do.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I can -- I can also not
imagine a lawyer who intentionally makes that decision.
That -- that lawyer is a unicorn, I suppose.
But I think there are a lot of lawyers who
will not be as careful about finding all of the issues
that they should bring to the court's attention, perhaps
be unaware of a statute that they should have been aware
of.
If -- if we -- if we adopt the rule that's
being urged by the Petitioner here, it does affect
attorney behavior for the attorney to know that stuff
that he -- he ought to know but doesn't know will --
will not be able to be patched up on appeal.
MR. WALL: The government agrees with that,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, should the government
agree with that really? Should some -- can you
imagine -- isn't it just as much of a unicorn for an
attorney to say, I'm not going to take great care
because I think that the law is going to change between
now and the appeal, and because I think I'm going to win
on prongs two and three -- three and four.
I mean, nobody can think that those
circumstances would arise. They're flukes when they
arise. And so it -- it doesn't affect either the
attorney's intentional conduct or his level of
preparation and care.
MR. WALL: Justice Kagan, I'm not here
saying that I think lawyers are sitting in -- in trial
courts intentionally going through the kind of thought
processes that you describe. But I think the effect
that Justice Scalia is talking about is real.
I think, at the margins, which is what we're
talking about when we're talking about these incentives,
I do think that in cases like this one -- I mean, this
is the heartland, where the district court says, I'm
going to give you an above-guideline sentence in order
for you to take a drug treatment class.
Now, defendants all around the country at
the time of Petitioner's trial were raising Tapia
claims. This was not some novel legal claim unknown.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why -- why was it a Tapia
claim? Why wasn't it simply, trial -- trial judge, the
statute says imprisonment is not an appropriate means of
promoting correction and rehabilitation? Why weren't
those -- why wasn't it really incumbent on the
prosecutor to tell the judge, just read those words?
MR. WALL: So, Justice Ginsburg, I didn't
mean by Tapia claim, depending on -- because this Court
hadn't issued Tapia. I mean a claim like the one in
Tapia, where defendants were saying, Section 3582, the
statute to which you're pointing, does not permit you,
district court judge, to do this.
Lots of defendants were making those claims.
They were percolating up through the circuits. Even
defendants in the Fifth Circuit were making that claim.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Wall, why is this
whole test, as you're proposing it, dependent on the
smartness or not smartness of a particular circuit and
the speed with which a particular circuit reaches an
issue or doesn't?
I mean, this -- basically, what you're
saying is we reward the circuits and the judges who
don't reach issues, because if the law is unsettled,
then if a substantial right is affected, that's so
serious that it affects the fairness and integrity of a
proceeding, that is not going to result in a reversal.
It seems to me that if I'm a district court
judge or a circuit court judge or anyone else or a
circuit court, I would try to avoid as many issues as I
could because there's going to be as little set of
reversals as possible.
MR. WALL: Justice Sotomayor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And going back to what
Justice Ginsburg said, we take cases where the split is
8 to 1, okay, or 8 to 0, because a particular circuit
hasn't gotten to -- to an issue.
Does this mean, as Justice Breyer said, that
the eight circuits who got it right, the defendants have
a Johnson plain-error rule, and the one circuit who just
didn't get to it doesn't?
MR. WALL: It's -- it's not about rewarding
or faulting district courts. It's the way our system
works. Where a court of appeals or this Court issues a
decision that governs a district court, that's the law.
And the Court said in Frady, we count on the trial court
and the prosecutor to bring those kinds of egregious
errors to the Court's attention.
But where it's an open question --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But why isn't the focus
of the system on the nature of the error?
MR. WALL: I think the focus of the system
is on the contemporaneous objection requirement in Rule
51, which is what Rule 52 is designed to enforce.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But 52(b) is about not
making the objection. That's -- that's sort of going
around in a circle.
MR. WALL: Well, only in the sense that what
Rule 52(b) does is it says okay, you didn't object. We
will let you get a narrow form of relief, but only in
the cases where your objection should have been
unnecessary because there was governing law which
everyone in the courtroom should have been able to point
to, or where it would have been futile --
JUSTICE BREYER: Whoa, whoa.
MR. WALL: -- because there's a governing
precedent the other way.
JUSTICE BREYER: Here, that's -- it's the
second part.
I mean, I think you'd have a stronger
argument were it not for Johnson. But Johnson is
saying, look, if you're in a circuit where the law turns
out to be absolutely clearly wrong, then you don't have
to make an objection. And then what we do is we
consider whether the matter was clear at the time of
appeal.
Now, once I see that, it's like both
bookends. You don't have to make the objection, and the
only time you do is when the law is unclear; and, that
being so, we're going to have everybody doing research
about how clear the law is one way or the other, which
is going to be tough.
But, more importantly, it seems to me what's
happening is that 52 is being also used in part to
isolate those Peggy Schooner type cases where it is just
basically unfair not to apply new law. And in the words
of Justice Marshall, he says that should apply, and
sometimes it's unfair not to apply it on the appeal.
And -- and so I don't see how you explain Johnson on
your theory.
MR. WALL: I think Johnson -- as the Chief
Justice pointed out earlier, the analysis in Johnson,
is fairly brief. The Court did not discuss the text,
history of the rule or this Court's previous cases.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, more than that,
Johnson stood on its head, did it not, not to decide the
case the easy way, which was simply to say if it's clear
on appeal, the rule applies.
It could have said that. The case would
have been very easy. It -- it instead avoided that by
saying, oh, well, this is a very special case.
Well, it wouldn't be a special case if -- if
the argument presented by the Petitioner here were
accepted. I don't -- far from -- far from appearing
that Johnson supports Petitioner's case, I think Johnson
tends to undermine it.
MR. WALL: Well, in danger of running afoul
of Justice Kagan, I'm going to agree again. That's
exactly the government's argument. If Johnson had
resolved the broader question, it could not have set
aside the -- the question here.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, the government had a
different argument before.
In Johnson, the government called this
distinction an amorphous one. And it says, "Nothing in
the text of Rule 52(b) contemplates or permits any such
distinction. An error is either plain, or it is not.
It is more faithful to the text of Rule 52(b) and simpler
for the courts of appeals to obviate that distinction
altogether," said the government.
MR. WALL: And this Court disagreed, but
studiously avoided placing its decision on the text --
JUSTICE KAGAN: This Court did not disagree.
This Court took a half step. And the question before us
is still the question that was before you when you wrote
this passage, you being the government, which is should
we distinguish between the Johnson case and this one.
And you very clearly stated, both as to a matter of text
and to a matter of what's simpler for the courts of
appeals, that there should be no such distinction.
MR. WALL: Justice Kagan, there is no
question that in the briefs and in argument, the
government in Johnson asked this Court not to draw a
futility exception to Rule 52 for cases in which an
objection would have been pointless at trial in light of
governing precedent, and the Court disagreed with us on
that.
And the question here is, is the Johnson
tail going to wag the plain-error dog? Johnson rested
on a policy consideration. They're just flatly
inapplicable here. This is the heartland of cases in
which a contemporaneous objection could have been quite
helpful. This is not, as the Court said in Johnson, a
case in which the defendant was being asked to make an
objection that the District Court was powerless to
grant.
The District Court here, I think, was
genuinely on the fence about what to do, and an
objection could have been quite helpful. So to take --
I mean, either the holding in Johnson, which was limited
and could not have been if the Court had decided on a
broader ground, or the rationale. Even taking just the
rationale, that doesn't apply here.
I think the only way you could read Johnson
that would help Petitioner is to say it resolved the
broader question of what the text of the rule requires
regardless of context. And that's the one reading of
Johnson that's just not persuasive on the face of the
opinion.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but the -- the ­ well,
this -- I mean, the trouble is you've run into, like,
four different interpretations of what Johnson really
means. And mine, which is, perhaps, no better or worse
than the competing ones, is -- is you go back to the
Schooner Peggy, and you see the Chief Justice, and he says,
in a case the law has changed, the Court must decide,
according to existing law, the appellate court; and, if it
be necessary to set aside a judgment rightful when rendered,
but which cannot be affirmed, but in violation of the law,
that judgment must be set aside.
So there, we seem to be -- and Johnson
seemed to me to bear this out; but, sometimes, you do
forgive the need to object because the overriding
principle is the principle of deciding the law as it is
at the time of appeal, and to do the contrary is just
too unfair.
Now, that -- reading Johnson that way, I'd
say, well, that rule applies here too.
MR. WALL: Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: Sometimes.
MR. WALL: -- there is no question that that
concern animated this Court's decision -- retroactivity
decision in Griffith, and there is no question that that
is one of the concerns underneath the rule. But if it
were the only concern --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, it's not.
MR. WALL: The rule wouldn't say plain. As
Justice Alito pointed out --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Absolutely. I mean,
that -- that argument applies to whether the error was
plain or not. Apply the law as it is.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Yes. And that's why
you make a balance. And the balance goes -- brings back
the first question that I put. Because, in this kind of
a case where the law is unsettled, we have what we'll
call the uniform or the hippogriff problem, and that's
the problem of it doesn't really make that much
difference to the basic policy of objecting.
And on the other side, you have the
administrative potential mess of having to figure out
how clear was the law in the court -- the district
court. Is it a circuit where you'd say the law was
absolutely -- is pretty clear that they were right? Or
was it a circuit where it's pretty clear that the law
was the opposite, in which case we waive the need? Or
is it actually mixed up and you don't know, in that
circuit, in which case you're arguing, don't waive the
need. So I see the unicorn on one side versus an
administrative problem on the other.
MR. WALL: So I -- I want to suggest that
the administerability problem is very small because it
has not been difficult for the lower courts to apply
this test.
And I want to suggest that there is a really
significant cost on the other side, which is you're
putting on the table an entire set of errors that Rule
52 was not designed to remedy, and you are diverting the
resources of the judicial system toward those
plain-error cases, and you will see a set of such claims
every time a court of appeals or this Court issues a
decision of criminal law or criminal procedure. In just
this circuit alone, it has issued five opinions in the
last year considering just Tapia plain-error claims.
And that's just Tapia. And that's just one circuit.
And I think the question is, what's the
obvious prong designed to do? What's it there for? And
it's got to be there to catch something. And what it is
there to screen out are errors that were debatable, that
even reasonable district court judges and prosecutors
might have missed and catch errors that everyone in the
courtroom should have recognized because they were
egregious under the law as it stood at the time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I -- it
strikes me that we are having a very unusual discussion,
in that we are competing policy considerations that have
been raised. This is a -- a rule with particular
language, and I don't think we'd be having this type of
a discussion if we were dealing with a statute. I think
there would be a different focus. Obviously, the policy
concerns would be raised but in a different context.
Do you have authority for the proposition
that we have more flexibility in interpreting the
Federal rules than we would in interpreting the statute?
MR. WALL: I -- not in general --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, it
highlight -- it -- just to take a moment -- it was
highlighted for me in your brief when you said, well,
Johnson, there was a special circumstance, so they read
this rule, then, this way. This is not a special
circumstance, so we are going to read the rule a
different way. Is it because these are rules as opposed
to statutes?
MR. WALL: No. It's because we have
Johnson. I mean, I -- Mr. Dreeben stood here in Johnson
and said, We've got the most natural reading of the
rule, and you shouldn't carve out a futility exception
to it. And then, in our view, that is what the Court
did without discussing the tax.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And what about what the
rules -- what the rules advisory committee? I mean, is
it -- when 52(b) was put in the statute, they ­ they
cited a case you cite in your brief, the Wiborg ­ or
Wiborg case. That wasn't, at the time, error. It was a
sufficiency-of-the-evidence error, the kind of thing you
would expect the counsel to bring to the attention of
the Court.
And nonetheless, the -- the advisory
committee put it in as an example of how 52(b) should
operate. And why? They said they put it in there
because it was a matter vital to the defendant.
So the objection wasn't made, so the
contemporaneous objection rule was -- was not observed
and nonetheless, the Court said, We are going to take --
we are going to consider it on appeal because the matter
is vital to the defendant.
I can't imagine anything more vital than
being deprived of 19 to 27 months of freedom.
MR. WALL: Well, I -- but Wiborg falls
squarely within what we all believe is the core of the
rule. There wasn't sufficient evidence at trial. That
would have been obvious to everyone in the courtroom
that the prosecution hadn't satisfied some element of
the offense. There is no change in intervening law like
what we are dealing with here.
And I take your point, Mr. Chief Justice.
We think that we've got by far the most natural reading
of the text. It's backed up by the history. It's
backed up by this Court's understanding in cases like
Frady, that is designed to cure errors so egregious that
the trial court and prosecutor were derelict in
countenancing them, as this Court said in Frady.
And I -- I don't see Petitioner or the
amicus really taking issue with the government on that
text or history or cases like Frady. I think they are
resting it on Johnson, and for the reasons I tried to
explain to Justice Kagan, I don't think any persuasive
reading of Johnson gets them home. It could not have
set aside this question if it had thought that it was
resolving what the text of the rule Mr. Chief Justice
meant, or general --
JUSTICE ALITO: What about Mr. Henderson
sitting in prison, serving a sentence that we now know
was imposed for a reason that is not permitted under
Federal sentencing law? Is there anything that can be
done for him? If -- if it was very clear at the time
that the statute prohibited this, would it have been --
was it ineffective assistance of counsel for his
attorney not to have made an objection?
MR. WALL: I think he could certainly raise
that claim in habeas and attempt to -- to get relief,
but I don't think there is any relief for him under Rule
52. And I don't --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And is there any relief
for him in the -- in the regulations of Bureau of
Prisons or the government -- other than a pardon, I
suppose, of defendants?
MR. WALL: Well, he -- he been a -- not
specifically aimed at this, Justice Kennedy. I will say
he has been eligible for the RDAP in the time that he
has been in prison, and he has never --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Eligible for?
MR. WALL: For the -- the -- for the
residential drug abuse treatment program that the
district court wanted him to participate in. He never
applied to --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I guess, I -- I
continue to be confused about what makes error plain or
clear. I don't know why the pronouncement of a circuit
court accomplishes that. Meaning, so we said in Tapia
that the statute is perfectly plain, perfectly clear.
And so why shouldn't it have been clear to those
circuits or to that district court judge at the time of
trial?
You're equating the plainness of error with
what the outcome is to -- in circuit courts, and I'm
having trouble with that.
MR. WALL: I -- not invariably, Justice
Sotomayor. I -- it's possible to imagine a case in
which a district court judge was not foreclosed from
reaching some legal conclusion that nevertheless no
reasonable judge would reach. I just think it's
impossible to say that that's what Tapia was. You had
courts that had reached different conclusions, and you
had a sentencing practice that had been in existence for
decades. Now, this Court ultimately found and agreed,
the government confessed to her, and the Court agreed
that that was an impermissible sentencing practice.
But it was still an open, debatable, legal
question on which courts had reached different
conclusions for many, many years. And I think to say to
a district court judge in a circuit that has decided the
question against the defendant, well, that's not clear
law. I think a district court would look at you like,
What are you talking about? I have an on-point Court of
Appeals decision that tells me to do X or Y.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Wall, can -- can I ask
you about footnote 4 of your brief? This is the
footnote in which you say that this case involves only a
claim of sentencing error, and it doesn't involve a
claim of actual innocence based on an intervening
decision.
Is that footnote meant to suggest that you
think, or at least that you contemplate the possibility
that where there is an intervening decision making clear
the conduct that a person had been convicted of was in
fact not criminal, that you would think a different rule
should apply? That the Johnson rule should apply?
MR. WALL: We are leaving open, if the Court
says that there is an actual innocence exception in
habeas to procedural default rules, that whatever it
covers, acts that are no longer criminal, sentences
beyond the statutory maximum, that whatever that
exception covers, we leave open the possibility that you
could also get relief for that under Rule 52. That --
that those cases could -- those exceptions could trap
each other.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Because then that creates
yet another complication in this interpretation of Rule
52. And one might say, we just want a uniform rule,
that it should all be at one time, and having said which
time it should be at in Johnson, and having suggested
that it should also be in the time of appeal for actual
innocence claims, that it would be strange to carve out
this single set of cases involving intervening changes
of the law, and say those should be at the time of
trial.
MR. WALL: Justice Kagan, I think far
stranger than letting the Johnson tail wag the
plain-error dog would be letting the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I agree that that was a bad
footnote. I think you're -- you know...
(Laughter.)
MR. WALL: Now, I'm going to go the other
way.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But -- an honest footnote,
an honest footnote in that you're saying there is this
other category of cases that's lurking out there, and
that category seems as though we should have the Johnson
rule.
MR. WALL: But actual innocence isn't the
tail, it's like the nub or the tip of the tail. And
whatever the Court decides to do with actual innocence,
it shouldn't dictate the interpretation of procedural
rules more generally.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But now we have two tails.
But -- you know, the one tail is Johnson and one tail is
actual innocence, but this is just a tail, too.
MR. WALL: One tail, one nub. But the --
the --
(Laughter.)
MR. WALL: Justice Kagan, this has not been
difficult to apply the lower courts doing this have not
found it difficult to determine because the vast
majority of cases, frankly, in the real world, are like
this one. Courts have reached different conclusions on
a legal question, and this Court --
JUSTICE BREYER: Then what harm does it do,
in the interest of simplicity, in reading a word to mean
what it says? The word is "plain error." It doesn't
say whether they mean plain error at the time of trial,
or plain at the time of appeal.
Olano says it means plain at the time of
appeal. If we say that's what it means, then that's
what it means always. And what harm will that do, given
the fact -- but, still, there's a plenty of a good
reason, and appellate judges know their job, not to send
things back, where it's some technical matter, where
he's trying to sandbag the judge, where, in fact -- now
we have all the Rule 4, the fourth prong consideration.
MR. WALL: Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: The words mean what they
say.
MR. WALL: -- I agree. And the rule --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if you agree, then --
MR. WALL: No. The rule suggests -- by far,
the most natural reading, is that the plain error could
have been brought to the court's attention, the district
court, the one that committed the egregious error, and
neither Petitioner nor Amicus has advanced any other
textual interpretation.
I mean, if we're deciding about that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't understand how
you get that from the rule. The rule says any plain
error that affects substantial rights, even if it wasn't
brought to the judge's attention.
MR. WALL: That's right. Even -- so that
that's the first clause. And the second clause is, even
if not brought to the court's attention, which suggests
that that plain error, that egregious, obvious error,
could have been brought to the district court's
attention; not that it was debatable at the time, and it
became clearer later because an appellate judge opined.
JUSTICE BREYER: That is Mr. Dreeben's
excellent argument.
And then Olano -- rather, Johnson says the
contrary.
MR. WALL: Again, Justice Breyer, Johnson
did nothing, either as a matter of its holding or its
rationale, to say what the rule requires more generally
in cases like this one, where a contemporaneous
objection could have been quite helpful to the district
court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I joined Johnson, and maybe
I have to repudiate it if it leads -- leads to that
conclusion.
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, you did not join
the relevant portion of Johnson.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I didn't? Oh, thank
God.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It didn't sound like me. I
believe in the slippery slope. And we're proving that
today, aren't we?
MR. WALL: It's fully open to you to agree
with the government here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Wall, your time is
up, but we have a rule -- the Supreme Court has a
rule -- and I would like to know how the government
reads it. It's our Rule 24, that says we, this Court,
may consider plain error not covered in the questions
presented, but evident from the record.
Is our rule -- in your view, must the error
be plain at the trial court stage, or is it enough that
the error was plain at the court of appeals stage for us
to apply our rule?
MR. WALL: I don't think there's anything
about the text or history or the way that rule has been
used that suggests it should be interpreted differently
from Rule 52.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
afoul 39:20 11:24 17:17 Armarcion 1:3 back 10:7 12:1,3
33:3 9:9 11:1 34:15 37:7 40:7,18 articles 22:20 16:21 19:3
38:1 39:21 51:3 44:8 49:18 aside 27:12 31:5 32:22
55:7 agreed 20:24 APPEARAN... 47:11 43:6 52:15
agrees 34:12 appearing 39:17 40:21 41:7 47:1
43:2,16 aimed 31:13 5:14,16 8:12 14:6 badly 8:19
10:11 18:7,21 31:8 42:5 assistance 47:20 banc 7:18
47:14 appendix 28:3 assume 32:25 25:17 30:6
16:22 12:22 29:17 Atkinson 13:11 basic 43:11
51:13 alteration 11:20 39:11 42:16 attempt 47:23 basis 14:22
altogether 40:8 43:3 attention 8:2 bear 42:10
14:17 47:6 19:13,20 32:5 34:4 37:11 behalf 1:19 2:7
amorphous 40:3 41:16 43:4,25 53:8,11,14 behavior 32:19
analysis 15:4 54:24 attorney 14:6 believe 4:9,24
animated 42:20 appointed 1:16 47:21 28:10 46:17
14:1,4 18:2 appropriate authority 4:10 belt 8:24 13:15
appeal 4:11 6:18 argued 24:24 36:18 10:4 13:5 42:1
17:11 18:10 argument 1:12 aware 21:23,25 bit 23:16
25:14,18,19 5:1 16:16 30:15 34:5 Breyer 16:21
46:5 39:1,11 42:13 27:1 32:17,18 32:9,22 37:1
50:20 38:9 39:16,22 B 38:3,6 41:23
39:10,12,14,15 31:5 39:4 42:3 12:25 13:4,8,9 31:11
52:5,18 39:18 40:15 44:21 45:8 13:20,20,23,24 complication
53:16 41:7 42:4 43:8 46:23 47:12 14:13,15,21,22 50:16
43:18,20 45:25 54:9 55:4 16:20 17:18,20 conceal 14:6
16:4,24 55:5,6 circuit 7:9,11,16 19:24 20:4,17 42:20,23
33:11 cases 3:14,16 10:5 15:8 22:4 20:20,24 24:25 concerned 21:16
45:10,25 4:16 5:6,10,25 22:25 24:7,23 25:1,13 31:19 concerns 42:22
6:6,11,14,17 24:24 28:4,10 31:21,23 38:13 45:3
37:10 27:7,22 28:4 36:24 37:3 48:19 49:15 conclusions 30:4
28:11 32:1 38:10 43:15,17 50:2 49:6,13 52:3
36:23 37:24 48:16,23 49:14 clearly 10:9,10 conditions 5:22
40:22 41:4 10:25 11:5,6 40:16 50:3
52:25 50:13,22 51:10 36:11 37:2 13:23 20:25 conflated 12:10
52:2 53:23 48:20 21:4 24:19 confused 48:15
22:18 24:16,17 claim 33:16,17 5:17 6:10,11 8:8
40:2 47:22 36:4 47:23 13:22 31:17 41:3 52:17
change 14:4 claimed 6:15 comment 24:9 44:23
46:21 36:2 44:7,11 committee considering
5:7,25 6:3 42:4 clarified 17:9 common 7:14 consistent 10:20
7:2,2,4 changes 33:3 clarifying 3:20 competing 42:2 25:8
11:4 50:22 5:17 44:23 contemplate
13:11 changing 22:20 clarity 19:16 complaining 50:1
18:2,2 charge 26:3 Clark 16:3 24:4 contemplates
20:11 Chief 3:3,9 6:21 class 35:11 complete 22:17 40:4
7:1 14:24 clause 53:10,10 completed 26:8 contemporane...
25:10 15:12,17,17,19 clear 3:20 4:7,8 completely 13:13 27:5
28:2 15:21 16:17 4:21 5:3 6:1,20 19:17 28:21 29:16
31:7,15 26:24 27:3 10:8 11:23 complicating 37:16 41:5
53:23 25:2,8,10,12 33:14 44:9,9 41:7 46:8,13 40:24
26:17 27:4,11 criteria 6:2 defendants 33:9 discretion 20:3
30:3,6,11 31:1 current 19:10 36:2,4 37:2 discussing 45:21
33:17 35:9,22 cuts 30:1 25:21 29:21 dissenting 15:7
17:3,4 41:6,8,10,14 day 6:5 27:20 dependent 36:6 31:15
23:4 27:7 42:4,5 43:14 29:7 30:19 depending distinguish
35:18 46:4,11 47:3,4 46:22 deprived 46:15 6:22 12:21,22
26:24 49:17 50:6 49:11 53:14 describe 29:19 36:1,16 37:6,8
46:3 51:15 52:4 decades 49:8 35:4 41:8,10 43:14
48:14 53:1,25 54:16 decide 12:4,17 designed 28:20 44:17 48:12,20
55:4 54:18,22,23 17:18,23 20:3 28:21 29:11 49:2,14,16
47:4 38:1 44:19 7:10 13:24 determine 10:8 doctrine 17:19
37:6 40:7,17 deciding 4:15 dictate 51:16 Dominguez
3:8,10,15 49:6,12 51:25 53:4 different 22:16 door 5:9 23:6
4:5,9 52:3 decision 3:17,21 23:3 28:17,21 draw 40:21
court's 8:2 24:8 4:8 6:22 8:13 28:25 30:4 Dreeben 45:17
34:4 37:11 33:14,25 37:8 40:1 41:25 Dreeben's 53:16
6:7,7,10 39:7 42:20 40:10 42:20,21 45:2,3,14 49:6 drug 27:14
8:12 47:1 52:25 44:9 49:18,24 49:12 50:4 35:11 48:11
10:7,13 53:11,13 50:2 52:3 dumb 11:14
12:16,17 covered 54:19 decisions 4:21 differently 55:2 D.C 1:8,18
13:17 covers 50:9,11 default 50:8 difficult 43:25
14:18 coveted 26:7 defeated 20:20 51:25 52:1 E
15:1 create 31:14 defendant 8:19 direct 4:11 33:1 E 2:1 3:1,1
18:2 creates 13:21 10:9 12:14 directed 19:11 earlier 32:22
50:15 18:16 27:13,22 directly 6:10 39:5
crime 26:19 28:18 29:15 disagree 40:11 easily 28:10
22:6 criminal 33:14 30:5,13 32:5 disagreed 40:9 easy 39:10,13
52:24 53:1,7 extreme 8:24 firearm 26:4 45:7 47:13
53:12,12 54:19 first 3:12 5:5 generally 51:17
13:6,21 54:21,23 F 12:8 13:19,20 53:22
17:2,15 errors 3:18 9:3 face 41:21 18:13 43:7 genuinely 30:12
19:25 22:16 27:11 faced 20:15 53:10 41:11
32:14,17 28:22 29:5,6,6 facing 28:12 five 44:10 getting 11:9
37:10 33:21 37:11 16:3,13 20:19 flexibility 45:5 Gilley 1:15 2:3
47:2 44:4,16,18 21:24 25:13 flukes 34:22 3:6,7,9 4:1,9
47:2 26:2,19 27:12 focus 3:12 37:13 4:24 5:11 6:4,9
40:5 28:2 facts 26:17 following 32:24 10:3,22 12:6
53:21 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 fact-intensive follows 9:7 13:10 14:8,14
20:24 38:18 31:7 36:14 Fortunately 24:6 25:22
evolved 8:8 far 20:17 31:6 30:8 49:8 52:1 21:3,6,22
6:15,15 53:17 Federal 45:6 33:20 52:17 given 27:14
8:18,19 exception 11:16 47:17 four-prong 52:12
10:6 11:17 40:22 fellow 31:15 13:19 gives 20:2
11:13 45:19 50:7,11 felon 26:3 Frady 29:12 go 4:15 10:7
14:13 exceptions fence 30:12 37:9 47:2,4,7 12:3 16:21
16:10 50:13 41:11 frankly 5:13 19:3 20:4 23:7
17:10,19 exclusively 31:3 Fifth 7:9,11,16 14:11 24:17 31:16 42:2
exist 17:12 15:8 24:23,24 52:2 51:6
existence 49:7 28:4 36:4 freedom 46:15 God 54:7
22:7 existing 42:5 figure 21:21 fully 54:13 goes 18:10 32:22
24:25 expand 16:8 43:13 further 31:12 43:6
expect 46:3 figuring 12:1 futile 16:15 38:2 going 11:1 12:1
28:5 31:1 experienced file 21:25 22:5 futility 40:22 12:25 13:10
33:16 29:8 final 4:11,12 45:19 16:8,9,9 17:7,8
37:14 expired 4:12 find 11:2 22:3 17:17 22:13,14
43:3 46:1 explain 39:2 25:18,18 G 24:8 26:9
31:14,15 happened 20:18 hurt 8:19 19:1 51:15,20 25:9,12 37:3
20:18 hustle 29:10 integrity 23:2,8 38:9,9 39:2,4,5
happening 27:16 28:19 39:9,18,18,22
38:22 I 36:14 40:2,15,21
36:15 happens 7:3 idea 12:10 intentional 41:1,2,6,13,17
37:19 13:12 18:9 identical 31:18 34:24 41:21,25 42:9
39:21 hard 18:1 31:20 intentionally 42:15 45:11,17
45:13 harder 23:16 imagine 33:25 33:25 35:3 45:17 47:8,10
51:6 harm 23:11 52:5 34:16 46:14 interest 32:11 50:5,19 51:1
harms 28:18 immunity 20:2 interpretation 53:20 54:1,5
36:25 heartland 35:9 impermissible interpretations judge 11:8,12,15
40:24 help 41:18 important 8:7 interpreted 55:2 17:2,20,21
34:12,14 helpful 8:11 22:12 26:17 19:15 45:5,6 21:13 24:8
40:2,8 9:22 24:16 32:13 intervening 26:10,12 29:20
47:6 41:6,12 53:24 importantly 33:14 46:21 29:22,24,25
49:9 helps 9:19 38:21 49:23 50:2,22 31:2 32:3
Henderson 1:3 imposed 21:7 invariably 48:25 35:16,20 36:1
39:22 20:15 24:18 impossible 49:5 involves 3:13 49:2,4,14
holding 41:13 16:15 35:23 44:10 23:9 28:19,19
6:4 8:6 9:12 initial 14:10 jail 20:23 31:16 3:9,23 4:2,14
Honors 4:20 injustices 24:12 job 52:14 8:16 9:2,13,18
keeping 28:8 lawyers 34:2 Lots 36:2 mess 43:13
14:1,2,9 Kennedy 5:20 35:2 Louisiana 1:15 met 5:22 28:5,11
15:10 6:5 14:1,9 22:9 leads 54:2,2 low 26:5 metaphysics
23:18 28:9 leave 32:2 50:11 lower 27:21 31:1 22:11
48:1,6,9 leaving 50:6 43:25 51:25 middle 17:24
kind 11:16 left 25:20 luck 13:14 18:16 mind 29:20
18:5 30:17 35:3 legal 17:25 lurking 51:10 mine 42:1
19:7 43:7 46:2 30:18 35:14 minimum 16:20
21:3,6 kinds 37:10 49:3,11 52:4 M minutes 26:17
22:9,22 knew 21:15,19 lengthen 21:11 main 25:5,5 missed 44:18
23:5,14 know 5:13 11:2 29:21 30:6,13 majority 6:11 mistakes 17:4
24:3 11:23 13:5 lengthened 7:15 52:2 mitigating 26:14
26:10 19:1,2 20:18 27:23 making 11:17 mixed 43:19
27:3,6,6 28:15 31:4,6 letting 51:1,2 11:20 36:2,4 moment 16:22
28:7,9 31:13 32:23 let's 15:11 37:19 50:2 45:9
29:18 34:9,10,10 level 10:7 11:25 man 24:10 months 7:11
43:19 47:15 13:22 17:20 margins 35:6 21:1 25:20
32:9,16 48:16 51:4,19 34:24 Marshall 31:5 46:15
33:7,24 52:14 54:17 life 33:5 38:25 morning 3:4,12
35:1 known 11:15 light 40:23 matter 1:11 17:6 motion 22:1,5
29:17 limit 31:3 33:9 38:13 multiple 12:7
limitation 13:2,3 40:16,17 46:8
L 13:9 46:12 52:15 N
39:5language 25:3 limited 41:13 53:21 55:7 N 2:1,1 3:1
44:25 lines 16:12 matters 15:21 narrow 5:19,19
41:23large 31:1 list 14:3,10 maximum 50:10 5:20 30:20
Laughter 15:23 16:14 mean 6:22 15:3 37:23
44:21 16:1 17:13 little 23:15 18:21 21:9 natural 45:18
46:23 51:5,23 54:8 36:19 27:10 28:25 46:24 52:24
laundry 14:3,10 long 6:23 7:5,13 30:25 31:13 nature 37:14
16:14 32:6 34:21 35:8,22 necessary 32:15
50:15,25law 4:4,7,8,20 longer 50:9 35:23 36:10 42:6
11:4 17:9,18 long-standing 37:1 38:8 need 10:12
19:10,13 22:19 30:3 41:13,24 43:2 11:14 42:11
29:17 31:8,10 look 12:15 15:1 45:8,17,23 43:18,21
31:16,19,21,23 24:13 25:2 52:6,8,19 53:4 neither 4:18
55:4 33:1,14 34:18 30:5 38:10 Meaning 48:17 53:2
38:10,17,19,24 looked 14:18,19 35:17 42:1 19:22,24 25:23
14:20,21 15:16 52:10,11,12 29:19 33:21
34:14 46:21 47:17 14:25 15:12 47:13 49:25 49:3
39:21,25 49:16 50:23 16:7,18 24:14 measures 8:24 new 6:1 16:9,10
47:9 lawyer 17:1,7,11 27:10 28:18 meet 27:24 22:13,14,17,17
50:15,25 32:18,19,23 lose 23:5 merits 20:4 23:15 31:10,20
33:25 34:1 lot 34:2 23:25 31:24 38:24
16:2 27:9 52:10 36:7,8,24 40:5 42:25 precedent 38:5
37:12 49:11 patched 34:11 25:7 48:22 preparation
54:13 PATRICIA 1:15 plain-error 7:22 34:25
37:22 15:11 41:22 people 19:22 41:2 44:7,11 54:20
opinions 28:3 20:23 31:18,20 51:2 pretty 31:25
17:3 19:23 perfect 16:5 pled 6:25 26:3 primarily 12:11
11:12,14 opposite 30:2 48:18 plus 31:7 12:14
14:3,11 43:18 period 5:15 6:18 point 14:18 principle 42:12
28:22,24 oral 1:11 2:2,5 7:9,13,16 16:24,25 17:22 42:12
32:20 3:7 27:1 permit 9:3 35:25 19:16,20 21:20 prison 19:3
33:3 order 9:5 35:10 permits 40:4 21:21 25:6,6 24:11 47:15
ought 13:5 permitted 30:10 38:1 46:23 48:8
40:23 34:10 47:16 pointed 39:5 Prisons 48:3
46:9 outcome 48:23 person 31:9 50:3 43:1 probably 23:15
47:21 overlooked persuasive pointing 35:25 problem 11:19
29:10 41:21 47:9 pointless 40:23 26:13 43:9,10
44:14 P 34:8 39:16 45:2 44:9
53:12 P 3:1 41:18 47:5 portion 54:5 proceeding
45:2 pages 15:9 Petitioner's possessed 26:16 proceedings
54:6,6 14:25 8:4,13,14 9:3,4 possible 23:17 26:6,7 48:11
17:14 part 22:12 23:7 11:13 17:10,19 49:1 47:19
36:24 26:13 32:6 18:12,16,25 potential 43:13 promote 19:25
38:7,22 19:2,8,19,23 powerless 41:8 promoted 16:3
8:15 9:23 48:12 27:8 28:5 practice 49:7,10 35:18
23:16 qualified 20:2 45:18 46:24 30:7 retrials 10:19
question 3:13 47:10 52:6,24 Rehnquist 15:16 retroactivity
4:3,4 5:24 9:17 reads 54:18 15:20 16:6 42:20
33:4,4 10:14 12:7,20 ready 26:20 related 18:8 reversal 36:15
44:14 13:11 14:2 real 17:18,25 released 25:22 reversals 36:20
15:13 16:22 18:21 35:5 relevant 54:5 reverse 4:22
34:20 19:19 20:19 realized 22:2 relief 20:11,21 22:21 24:15
28:1 29:4 9:21 17:7,12 48:1 50:12 reward 36:11
43:7 44:13 47:6 repudiate 54:2 28:12 33:12
29:13,23 52:4 13:2,8,20 require 9:4 14:2 43:16 53:9
35:20 questions 54:19 20:12,13,14 22:17 rightful 42:6
47:3 quite 6:8 15:9 21:3,6 31:12 requirement rights 5:21 8:1
44:17 quote 31:4 52:14 requires 17:1 20:10 23:2
26:20 47:22 recognized resentencing 45:8 54:9 55:4
8:21 9:3 13:4 recommended residential rule 3:15,20
12:14 33:15 44:24 20:25 21:18 48:11 7:22,24,25
18:22 45:3 record 16:3 resolved 30:3 8:14,17,25
20:23 raising 35:13 54:20 39:23 41:18 10:1 12:23
range 26:21,23 reduces 26:8 resolving 47:12 13:12 17:16
21:11 41:15,16 53:22 referred 3:16 44:6 21:25 22:5,11
29:21 RDAP 26:7 48:7 referring 6:13 Respondent 22:16 23:18
reach 36:12 49:4 23:18 1:19 2:7 27:2 28:15 29:7
33:21 49:6,12 52:3 regardless 24:25 12:10 32:11,21 33:10
45:24 reaches 36:8 41:20 responders 12:9 33:22 34:7
reaching 49:3 regulations 48:2 responsibility 37:3,16,17,22
45:12 16:23 23:22 13:12 24:10,10 36:7 statutory 50:10
46:10 24:3 33:24 36:14 solely 15:4 step 40:12
47:12,24 34:13 35:5 seriously 26:18 Solicitor 1:17 stood 39:9 44:20
39:8 43:2 51:3 serve 8:5,17,22 solicitors 12:9 45:17
51:12 54:1,4,6,10 9:13,24,25 12:16 straightforward
Scalia's 5:23 20:5 28:17 solve 11:19 25:3,3
14:2,11 served 12:23 solved 11:19 strange 50:21
scheduled 25:22 18:22 sorry 15:19 stranger 51:1
55:1,3 Schooner 31:4 serves 8:6 9:6,7 29:25 strikes 44:22
Sealed 22:3 47:15 22:22,25 27:6 stuff 34:9
51:17 second 3:22 set 5:5 29:5 28:7,23 36:5 sua 7:17
30:20 43:21 44:7 Shreveport 1:15 specifically 16:7 27:11,25 29:3
47:5 side 17:15,16 48:6 36:13 53:7
13:3 16:18 significant spent 15:1 sufficiency-of-...
46:20 sentence 21:1,8 similar 20:15 sponte 7:18 sufficient 46:18
35:2,24 35:10 47:15 simply 7:25 stake 23:10,14 suggested 50:19
38:10 sentenced 7:6 35:16 39:10 started 6:24 8:8 suggests 52:23
51:9 24:19 single 50:22 state 15:11 53:11 55:2
16:19 22:16 29:21 47:15 40:16 suppose 4:2 7:23
21:10 50:9 situation 11:4,7 States 1:1,6,12 10:16 14:1
23:7 sentencing 12:2 20:8 3:5 34:1 48:4
29:1,2 21:17 22:8 21:19 24:10 statute 8:14 Supreme 1:1,12
35:9,17 23:1,24 24:4 situations 29:1 21:10,12,23,25 4:13,24 5:12
38:25 24:16 26:14,20 six 31:18,20 22:4 24:25 5:18 6:10,18
42:3 50:7 27:15 28:11 skipped 5:14 29:19,20,22 17:10 54:16
53:6 30:11 47:17 slippery 54:11 30:16 34:5 sure 10:22
54:18 49:7,10,22 slope 54:11 35:17,25 45:1 surely 11:6
5:7 11:3 24:15 6:6,13 43:24 48:18 system 9:7 11:23
15:25 serious 12:13 smartness 36:7 statutes 45:15 12:12 14:12
24:15 46:25 47:7,12 20:16 22:17 23:15 42:14
32:15 55:1 time 3:18,19,23 25:13 27:8 unicorn 17:12
textual 53:3 4:12 5:3,15 28:11 29:6,10 34:1,16 43:21
thank 26:24 6:18,22 7:6,13 29:13 33:16 uniform 43:9
32:10 46:2 19:16,20 20:20 trouble 12:1 37:25
things 32:5 21:23 24:11,23 18:15 41:24 unsettled 3:18
7:24 17:16 6:4,9 7:4,14,14 27:8 33:13 try 36:18 36:12 43:8
27:9 7:21 8:10 9:19 35:13 38:13,17 trying 52:16 unusual 44:22
35:11 10:3,23 11:1 42:13 44:8,20 turn 14:5 unusually 7:5,13
41:12 12:6,8,8 14:14 46:1 47:18 turns 38:10 urged 34:8
46:11,23 14:15 15:6,11 48:7,20 50:18 two 6:1 9:6 use 14:5
24:1,14,21 53:14 54:15 34:20 51:18 v 1:5 3:4
28:6,9 30:1,10 tip 51:14 typical 7:2 33:23
20:18 34:19,21 35:2 54:12 U 52:1
24:19,19 35:4,6,8 37:15 tough 17:25 ultimate 10:14 versus 43:21
25:2 38:8 39:4,18 38:20 24:12 view 27:20
30:4 41:10,17 44:13 transcript 30:11 ultimately 49:8 45:20 54:21
44:25 45:1 transition 5:15 unanimous violation 42:7
44:11,12 46:24 47:7,9 transitional 15:10 vital 46:8,13,14
49:5 47:22,24 49:4 7:16 unaware 34:5
35:20 third 23:13 27:8 treating 28:25 unclear 3:19 20:12
33:5 33:12 35:3 7:9 9:14 10:1,7 42:22 29:4,18 30:1
44:1 47:11 10:7,9,12,18 understand 13:8 30:17 32:8,16
three 3:11 6:1 12:17 14:23 understanding 35:1,21 36:5
25:15,15 15:9 33:4 17:1,2,19 18:9 8:7 27:17 47:1 36:21 37:5,15
40:4,6,10 34:20,20 19:16,20 20:20 unfair 31:25 37:21 38:4
41:19 three-judge 21:4 22:6,13 38:24 39:1 39:4,20 40:9
42:17,19 Wiborg 45:25 11-9307 1:4 3:4 6
43:23 46:1,16 11:03 55:6 60-month 21:1
46:16 wiggle 32:3 181 28:4
48:5,10 win 23:6 27:14 19 46:15 8
49:19 34:19 8 11:2,2 36:24
51:6 window 5:15 2 36:24
wish 22:10 2 7:1,3 11:2
woman 24:11 2000 7:7
54:4 wonder 4:14 2009 6:25
word 7:24 8:4 2010 6:25 7:7
25:6 words 35:20 2012 1:9
43:23 38:24 52:19 2013 25:23
50:17 work 27:21 24 54:18
world 18:21
10:15 worried 29:15 3 2:4
19:2 worse 42:1 33 21:1 26:21
22:13,14 wouldn't 5:10 35(a) 22:1,5
31:23 32:20 39:15 35(82)(a) 22:7
46:1 42:25 3582 35:24
53:7 wrong 6:1 12:13 4
49:20 52:17
21:1 26:21
15:18 26:18 38:11
30:2 wrote 16:17 5
37:6 40:13 5 15:11
39:10 50 11:9 31:16
42:15 X
8:25 13:12
51:7 x 1:2,7 49:18
52 29:7 30:20
44:11 44:5 47:25
22:1 50:12,17 55:3
49:13 52(b) 3:15,24
13:16
16:8,8,9 0 14:19,20 16:7
35:6,7 25:15 28:24
36:24
53:4 33:22 37:18,22
1 40:4,6 45:24
46:24 10 26:16 55 3:15
