IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL :
DEVELOPMENT, ET AL. :
Petitioners : No. 12-10
v. :
ALLIANCE FOR OPEN SOCIETY :
INTERNATIONAL, INC., ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, April 22, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioners.
DAVID W. BOWKER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID W. BOWKER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next this morning in Case 12-10, Agency for
International Development v. The Alliance for Open
Society International.
Mr. Srinivasan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
Congress's comprehensive program to address
the worldwide problem of HIV and AIDS includes a policy
of opposing prostitution and sex trafficking because
they contribute to the diseases spread. And
correspondingly, Congress determined -- determined that
the government should partner with and should grant
limited competitive Federal funding to those
organizations that agree with the policy opposing
prostitution and sex trafficking, because organizations
that agree with that policy are most likely to carry out
the Federal program in conformity with the Federal
policy priorities.
Now, no organization that carries out HIV
programming is required to subscribe to the Federal
government's views, but if an organization wants to
partner with the Federal government and get Federal
funds to carry out the Federal program, well, that
organization -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but I guess
the problem is that there are a number of different ways
you could carry out the program. And let's say you have
an organization that focuses on a particular -- you
know, the administration of hospitals or whatever it is
that's covered by the program, and they regard this
issue as collateral to what they're concerned with.
There -- there have to be some limitations on what type
of loyalty oath you can require them to sign, isn't
there?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think, Mr. Chief
Justice, the way that Congress looked at this was to
look at -- at the organizations with which the
government is going to partner across the mine run of
situations. And I think what one can do is look at
Respondents' brief, because Respondents encompass a
variety of different types of organizations.
But Respondents' brief itself tells you, at
pages 11 to 12 and at pages 32 and 33, that there are
going to be situations, in their own experience, in
which these issues about prostitution and -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what if
they -
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- and sex trafficking come
into issue.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right. I
appreciate that.
What if they're not? What if the government
has, in addition to this policy, a strong policy in
promoting, you know, recycling, and so they require
everybody with whom they're going to do business, every
grantee, to adopt a policy in favor of using renewable
resources? Any problem with that?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Mr. Chief Justice, I think
that would present a different question. Of course, you
know that it presents a different question, but it would
be a little bit more difficult for the -- for the
following reason: That there is a germaneness component
to Congress's -- the constitutionality of Congress's
funding decisions in this area. And the more sweeping
and the less germane the condition would be, the more
it's open to constitutional attack.
Now, this condition is very, very germane,
because as -- because as Congress found, prostitution
and sex trafficking contribute to the spread of the
disease. And so it makes good sense that Congress would
have imposed this condition.
And I think it's important to understand -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well -- well, it would on
that particular point. What should we do -- as far as I
can tell from the briefs, the people who work with the
prostitutes to try to prevent AIDS uniformly tell us
that if you go to those prostitutes and you try to get
them to take steps to stop AIDS, it's very hard to do if
at the same time you've announced you're against all
prostitution. So what they're saying is that the
condition imposed will interfere with the objective, and
if there is a germaneness requirement -- and nobody says
the opposite.
I mean, I've noted nobody denies what
they're saying in terms of the effectiveness of their
work, so -- I don't think. At least, I didn't read them
all with great care; maybe you can point to somebody who
does. But if everyone is telling us that this is
counterproductive and the exact opposite, then can we
say, well, it isn't germane.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, Justice Breyer, I
don't think so, and two responses on that score.
First of all, everybody is not telling you
that, and I'll tell you who's not telling you that in a
second.
But the more -- but the overarching point is
that this is a policy determination that Congress, of
course, took into account when it fashioned the statute,
and it concluded that it was important to have an
opposition to prostitution and sex trafficking.
Now, as far as the organizations that aren't
telling you that, there is an amicus brief that's filed
by 46 organizations that it's in our support -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's quite a few,
yes. That's true.
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- that's in our support,
and the lead organization is the Coalition Against
Trafficking in Women, and they -- they support us. And
they think that the best way -- and they -- and they
argued this passionately in their brief -- they think
that the best way to provide services to the target
audience is under a rubric of opposition to prostitution
and sex trafficking. And I would urge you to take a
look at that brief, because it explains why the program
should be conducted in this fashion.
Now, is there a debate about -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Srinivasan, there
isn't -- at least I'm not familiar with anything quite
like this where if you're not told, if you want to run a
government program, you have to speak the government's
speech. This doesn't require the recipient to speak to
anybody at all, except to the government itself, to say,
I pledge that my policy is the government's policy. So
it's making somebody adopt as her own the government's
policy rather than saying, I understand that I get my
government money, I have to follow the government's
rules about what I can say to the public.
Here -- and is -- is there anything else
quite like this where you make a pledge to the
government, but with respect to third parties doesn't
apply?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Ginsburg, if I
could just fight the premise of your question just very
slightly and then explain why I think this kind of
requirement makes sense in this particular context.
The goal of this is not to persuade somebody
to change their view. The goal of this is to partner
with organizations that self-identify as organizations
that agree with the government's policy priorities. And
the reason the government has done that, and the reason
why Congress could -- felt that that was a good idea is
straightforward, and that is that those organizations
that agree with Congress's policy priorities are going
to be more likely to be reliable and effective partners
in carrying out the government's program.
And one way to think about it is to envision
this: You have a circumstance in which you're down to
your last few dollars of a discretionary Federal funding
and you're looking at two different organizations that
are competing for that money. One of them comes to you
and says, we agree with your policy of an opposition to
prostitution and sex trafficking, and the other one
says, we're not going to tell you whether we agree;
we're going to remain studiously neutral. But we'll
tell you that we'll conduct our affairs in a manner
that's not inconsistent with your policy priorities.
I think it makes all the sense in the world
for Congress to decide that the government should
preferably partner with the former organization rather
than the latter, because they're going to be more
reliable and more effective at carrying out the
government's program.
And there's another aspect of this that I
think that is important to highlight, and that is that
we're not just talking about circumstances in which the
conduct is -- is arguably going to be neutral, so that
there's going to be no position taken. There's also
going to be occasions in which the organizations that
are providing services are going to have the opportunity
to affirmatively embrace the government's policy in
opposition to prostitution and sex trafficking.
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm not aware of any case in
which this Court has held that it is permissible for
Congress to condition Federal funding on the recipient's
expression of agreement with ideas with which the
recipient disagrees. I'm not aware of any case in which
that kind of compelled speech has been permitted.
And I would be interested in -- and it seems
to me like quite a -- a dangerous proposition. I would
be interested in whatever limitations you think there
might be on that rule, which seems to be the general
rule that you're advocating. Other than the requirement
of germaneness, is there anything else.
MR. SRINIVASAN: There -- there is
germaneness, Justice Alito, and I can point to a couple
of other limiting principles that have been noted in
this Court's decisions and I think that are satisfied
here.
One is that Finley talked about, and I think
it captures some other decisions in this -- this
respect, disallowing the government from leveraging its
control over funding conditions in a manner that
services a speech-suppressive objective. And so you
have to be careful, and I think this maps -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Say it again. I didn't
understand the point.
MR. SRINIVASAN: It -- it -- the government
is limited from leveraging its control over funding
conditions so that it can achieve a speech -
speech-suppressive objective.
And I think what the Court was getting at is
that you want to be careful that the speech condition,
the speech-related condition, is tightly tethered to the
programmatic objective and not allow the government
to -- to have the program seep into other areas where it
doesn't have to go.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me give you this
example, which is mentioned in one of the amicus briefs.
The government provides lots of funding to universities
to -- in various forms, either directly or through
student loans, in the form of tax exemptions, so
anything that would be germane to the general purpose of
higher education presumably could be attached as a
condition to those funds. Would that be correct?
MR. SRINIVASAN: With -- with certain
limitations. I mean, I think germaneness is a -- is a
criterion.
JUSTICE ALITO: With what -- with what
limitations?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think -
JUSTICE ALITO: The government could have a
whole list of things, of principles that it thinks
should be incorporated into higher education, and it
could require a university as a condition of receiving
these -- this money, let's say directed through student
loans, to express agreement with all of these
propositions. Would that be true.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I'm not sure, Justice
Alito, and of course it's going to be hard for me to
decide that we are not going to defend something. But
let me just give you a limiting idea that's out there,
which is that I think there is an important distinction
between circumstances in which the government is
partnering with an organization to carry out a
government program, and circumstances in which the
government is extending a Federal subsidy to an
individual organization as kind of an across-the-board
entitlement.
So in the generally applicable
across-the-board -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you mean by
partnering? How does this partnering differ, partnering
differ from just giving them the money to do the job?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I don't know that it
the differs from giving the money to do the job. I
guess what I'm saying is there are going to be
circumstances, for example, like in Speiser, where the
financial question doesn't have to do with the
expenditure of the money by the recipient in a manner
that's commensurate with congressional goals.
In that context you're giving a generally
applicable entitlement, and you're not so worried about
how the money is being spent because that person is not
partnering with the government in carrying out a Federal
program. Here the organizations are partnering with the
government in carrying out the Federal program, because
it's the Federal HIV program that's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know what you -
what do you mean by partnering? You're saying they are
given money to carry out a particular program. Is that
all -
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that all you mean by
partnering?
MR. SRINIVASAN: They are given money to
carry out -
JUSTICE SCALIA: To carry out a particular
program.
MR. SRINIVASAN: But in concert with Federal
policy priorities. So it's not just -- it's not just a
naked grant of money. If you had an entitlement,
Justice Scalia, for example, let's just consider your
classic entitlement -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand. It is a
naked grant of money to implement a particular program.
MR. SRINIVASAN: To implement a particular
program and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you call that
"partnering with the Federal government."
MR. SRINIVASAN: I do.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Terrible verb, anyway.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Okay. My apologies for
that, for associating with the organization recipient in
carrying out a Federal program.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Srinivasan, on this,
it does seem to me unusual, as Justice Alito brought
out, requiring somebody to say "I believe this" or "I
agree with the government on that." The Rust v.
Sullivan, which is one of the precedents on which you
rely, made it a point that the doctor was not required
to represent as his own views, not required to represent
an opinion that he doesn't hold.
He has to adhere to the government's program
in his dealings with the public, but he doesn't have to
say "I agree with the government."
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes. That's true, Justice
Ginsburg. But here's why -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that just an
irrelevant consideration in Rust, that no one -- no one
was being obliged to say I believe something that they
don't believe.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, here's why I think it
makes sense in this context. It is distinct in that
respect, but here's why I think it makes sense in this
specific context. What Congress wanted to do is secure
an ex ante commitment from the organizations with which
the government works to assure that they agreed with the
government's policy priorities. Now, where these
programs are carried out is in the main in foreign
territory, in distant lands, and in that context I think
Congress would have understood that monitoring of
conduct can be particularly challenging.
And that monitoring is made all the more
challenging because these issues can come into play
through a myriad of interactions between the
organizations that are working with the government and
local communities and local officials.
JUSTICE BREYER: I see that, and I see you
have two sides to the policy question. And then it
seems to me that the case that Justice Ginsburg was
speaking of is pretty relevant. Why? Well, that case,
Regan and League of Women Voters, all seem quite
comparable. They are trying to balance the -- the
desire of the government to further a policy objective
with the undesirability of the government invading what
would otherwise be a constitutional protected right to
speech.
And the way they have done it is quite
technical and narrow, but it may be applicable. In
both, what they said was: Don't worry about your
protected speech as much as you are because there is
another way you can do it here. You go through a -- an
independent structured organization. And where that
wasn't present, namely the League of Women Voters, the
Court struck it down.
Now if that's the right framework, then here
I don't see how you could have an independently
structured organization for the reason that a group that
said I am -- I am opposed completely to prostitution,
publicly, to get the money, and then set up a structure
that said the opposite, would be seen as totally
hypocritical. They wouldn't be able to get their
message across.
They wouldn't be able to express in any way
what it is they think about the administration of AIDS
in the context -- anti-AIDS in the context of
prostitution.
That's a long question, but you see where -
where I've ended up.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I think I do.
JUSTICE BREYER: At the moment, for purposes
of the question. So why isn't this case more like
League of Women Voters and less like the other two?
MR. SRINIVASAN: For the following reasons,
Justice Breyer: There is an alternative affiliated
organizational vehicle in this case as well, and I think
that's constitutionally significant. Now, I'm not going
to quibble with Your Honor's point about how the
organization that's the funding recipient has made this
policy agreement and that that can have ripple effects,
but here's why that matters.
The point of having an alternate vehicle is
not that it remedies a constitutional problem that
already exists. The point of it is to get to this
leveraging purpose that I was talking about earlier, and
it's to show that what the government is doing is
keeping the condition within its appropriate confines,
and it's not allowing that condition to spread beyond
that into other realms. And that purpose is fully
served by the organizational affiliate alternative here.
And I think it's important -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But, Mr. Srinivasan,
there is a difference in this international setting.
Most of those separate affiliates was in Taxation
Without Representation and it was the cure for the Legal
of Women Voters. But here, as the D.C. district court
said in its opinion, which was in your favor: Oh, all
you have to do is spin off a subsidiary that gets the
government money; it's just a simple matter of corporate
reorganization.
But you know that getting an NGO, a new NGO,
recognized in dozens of foreign countries is no simple
thing to accomplish. I mean, to take a concrete
example, look what happened about a year and a half ago
in Egypt when the U.S. NGO's were indicted for
criminal -- for not complying with the permit
requirements of the country.
So it's one thing to set up a 501(c)(3) and
501(c)(4) operating in the United States, each does its
thing. But to require an NGO to then in the countries
where it's operating get the necessary permits is quite
an arduous thing.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I
guess it depends on which direction it runs as a
principal point. I mean, of course, the recipient
organization that's been conducting the program to date
can continue to conduct the program and the affiliate
that's set up could be the alternate channel. And so
you could run in the opposite direction and I think you
wouldn't run into that problem.
But I would like to address on this score an
important point, which is that I think Respondents have
suggested that there is a material distinction between,
Justice Breyer, the circumstances in Rust and the
circumstances in this case, because Rust involves
separate programs within a legal entity, and this case
involves separate organizations.
And I think the point the Respondents are
trying to make is that there is a distinction because at
least there one legal entity could have multiple
programs, some of which are subject to the condition and
some of which are not, whereas here there is a
difference because this condition applies to an entire
organization. But I think that's a false premise.
JUSTICE BREYER: I wasn't exempting that
one.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: The main difference it
seemed to me is, assuming all of that away, is that here
the separate structure does not fulfill the
constitutional need simply because the basic condition
has to do with express speech. Because when A says "I
believe in X" and then they set up a separate
structure -- and every one knows they have set it up; I
mean, that's the point of it -- and the structure says,
"just kidding," nobody believes them from day one.
And so you can't do it and if the government
has its way and has awarded the thing properly,
according to your criteria, the part that won't be
believed is the "just kidding" part. And so the
structure, separate structure, just doesn't work in
terms of communicating their belief. And I don't think
that's true in Rust, and I don't think it's true in
Regan, and I do think it's true in FCC v. League of
Women Voters.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I guess I'd -- I'd make two
points, Justice Breyer.
One is, as I was suggesting earlier, the
purpose of having this alternate channel is not to
remedy a constitutional violation that otherwise would
exist. I mean, of course, we start from the premise
that it's okay to require this condition at the front
end. It's not that it's unconstitutional, and the way
to compensate for that is to create this affiliate
alternative.
We think the condition's okay ab initio.
What the alternate vehicle does is to address this other
problem, that it shows that the condition is
appropriately tailored. It's not reaching beyond its
appropriate confines, because it's allowing -
JUSTICE BREYER: Boy, if -- if the
structure -- the separate structure is not really part
of a constitutional analysis, then the government could
say, why not? It's easy to find policy reasons, and
really find very, very decent and thoughtful people who
agree with the policy reason, you know? There -- there
are people on both sides of these questions, and they
come in and they say, okay, we're giving money for an
anti-abortion purpose or a pro-abortion purpose, you
know -
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and -- and suddenly
people can't say anything in these areas in face of such
a condition.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, as part of the -- as
part of the constitutional analysis, I guess it's just
addressing a different part of the constitutional
analysis than -- than what Your -- Your Honor is
addressing.
I guess the other points that I'd make are
twofold. One is that I think there is something to the
notion that if the organizations are sufficiently
separate, then -- as they have to be to comply with the
regulations -- then it does work that one organization
can say that we have a particular policy, and the
organization -- another organization -- another
organization can say that we have a different policy,
precisely because of the premise that they're
sufficiently distinct.
So I'm not seeing the same degree of
cognitive dissonance you are -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's -
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- and the other point I'd
make -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.
Finish answering him and then I'll -
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you, Justice
Sotomayor.
The other point I'd make is this, that the
speech-related objections that Respondents levy are
twofold. One is, they complain about the threshold
condition. But the second is -- and this is -- may -
manifests at pages 11 to 12 and 32 and 33 of their
brief -- is that they want to engage in activities that
involve affirmative speech.
They want to be able to participate in the
dialogue about prostitution and sex trafficking and
whether they should be legalized. And with respect to
that aspect of what Respondents are complaining -
complaining about, I think the alternate affiliated
organization opportunity is a perfect remedy, in the
same way that it was in Rust, and in the same way that
it -- that it was in Regan.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The problem that I have
with that answer is that it doesn't cure the
organization's need to stay true to its own beliefs.
Because if -- and I think this is what Justice Breyer is
trying to get to -- if it truly an independent
organization speaking, then that's that organization's
belief; it's not an alternative under Rust to the needs
of that organization to have its own personal views.
And -- and so I have that problem, which is
how is it an alternative for that organization to be
able to have its views?
Let me posit a hypothetical that I'm
actually very troubled by. Let's assume a city
government is undertaking a campaign to prevent teen
pregnancy and its associated problems, and it wants to
promote the use of contraceptives that protect from
contracting, you know, diseases, things like that.
And some of its programs involve the
distribution of contraceptives, but others involve
parenting classes for teenage mothers and offering them
free daycare. And a church seeks funds for the daycare
part and the parenting part.
Can the city now say because we have this
really important need to avoid sexually transmitted
diseases, anyone who seeks our funds also have to say
they believe in the use of contraceptives?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Sotomayor -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The church there would
say, we don't believe and why should we say we believe.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I -- I'd certainly
understand why a church would be reluctant to do that.
I mean, I guess, you know, one way to look
at it is that the city I think would have to think very
long and hard about whether that's a -- a desirable
policy objective, precisely because some of the
organizations with which it wants to work are going to
have difficulty abiding by it. And so there's going to
have to be a front end determination as a matter of
policy about whether that's an appropriate thing to
pursue.
But if the city, as Congress did in this
case, thought that it was an appropriate thing to do,
then I think I would -- I think I would defend that -
apart from, you know, free exercise issues of other
things that aren't in play here -- I think I would
defend it as long as it's sufficiently germane, and as
long as it's in furtherance of the policy objectives
that Congress or by, in your hypothetical, the city -
JUSTICE ALITO: But why don't I give you
another example that's along the same lines. The
Federal government provides lots of funds to entities
and individuals who are involved in the provision of
health care. So let's suppose Congress says that we
think that the issue of guns is very germane to public
health, and therefore, we will not allow anybody to
receive any of these funds directly or indirectly unless
that entity or person proclaims agreement with whatever
we happen to think at the moment about guns.
So they must either say we believe that guns
should be strictly limited -- access to them should be
strictly limited for public health purposes or that guns
should be freely available because we think that
promotes public health.
That would be permissible, wouldn't it?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I don't know that it would,
Justice Alito, on that -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why would it not?
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- because -- because I
think, first of all, it would depend on whether there -
there is the requisite germaneness. It would depend on
whether in fact the organizations are working with -
I'm trying to avoid using the word "partnering with" -
but are working with the -- the government in carrying
out the program. It would depend on those kinds of
considerations.
And whether -- another point to be made here
is that a limitation that's been recognized in this
Court's cases is that at the end of the day, the
government -- the government can't be seeking to
suppress speech, or to suppress disfavored viewpoints,
even in the context of subsidization.
And you'd have to ask the question whether
that scheme is designed to do that. Now, if -- if it
crossed all those thresholds, then I think yes, I would
defend that as well, but I do think that it presents
different and more difficult questions.
I would like to -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: One -- one thing before
your time is up. I have the same concerns that Justice
Ginsburg expressed about the difficulty of simply
creating structures in -- in foreign countries. If -
and I've looked through all of your cases. What's your
closest case, your best case for the fact that you
should get extra deference because this is the foreign
affairs field?
I mean, I think of U.S. v. Curtis Wright.
Anything more specific than that?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I don't know that I have a
particular case other than the doctrine generally,
Justice Kennedy. But I do think that the foreign
location of this is significant vis-à-vis the concern
that I think many of you have raised about why have an
affirmative condition that requires espousal of a
policy.
Precisely because the conduct here is
carried out in foreign areas, and precisely because it
can involve myriad interactions with local officials and
local policymakers, as Respondents admittedly want to
do, on these sensitive questions, it makes sense in this
context -- particular sense in this context to secure an
ex ante commitment of agreement with the government's
policy, because that will have a self-policing aspect to
it.
It will be more designed to secure conduct
in those areas that, in conformity with Federal policy,
in a realm in which that conduct is particularly -
particularly difficult to monitor.
I'd like to reserve the balance of my time
for rebuttal, if I might.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Bowker?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID W. BOWKER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. BOWKER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Respondents do not dispute that the Spending
Clause gives the government significant authority to
fund the programs of its choosing and to control speech
and conduct within those programs.
The problem with the policy requirement is
that it aims at grantees, requiring that they profess a
personal belief, and refrain from certain private speech
outside the context of the government program.
In Rust v. Sullivan, the Court held that the
government could ban abortion-related speech in the
government's own family planning program, but the
grantees there were left unfettered in their personal
beliefs and in their private speech outside the program.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't see why this
is a -- you talk about banning their speech. The
government is just picking out who is an appropriate
partner to -- to assist in this project. It wants to go
and find people who, like them, are opposed to
prostitution. And all they want to do is make sure that
you're opposed to prostitution.
It's like any other sort of condition. You
know, we want to make sure that you haven't been
convicted of tax fraud over the last 10 years, so sign a
certification that you -- you haven't.
Yes, it's related to speech, but the whole
program is about that. Why would they want to sign up
with somebody who didn't share the objectives of the
program?
MR. BOWKER: Well, I think the policy
requirement here has been applied a little differently
than Mr. Chief Justice suggests.
It -- it is applied in a way that is a
funding condition, not part of the selection criteria.
When the government goes out to select its partners in
this case, it -- it goes out with requests for
applications, and those requests for applications
pertain to the particular program at issue. And they
are very detailed about what precisely is required for
that program, including -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it would be a
different case, in your -- your view, as if -- when they
have those criteria, they have one of them is, oh, by
the way, you must agree with the objective of the
program, which is to eliminate to the extent possible
prostitution and sex trafficking?
MR. BOWKER: No. I don't -- I don't think
that's right. I -- I think the government absolutely
can pick partners who are dedicated to the particular
program for which they are applying, but there are
constitutionally permissible ways to do that.
One of the ways to do that is to look at
technical capacity, past performance, references: What
have you done before that shows you're able to do this
particular program?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it isn't just able to
do. Are -- are you saying that they -- they just can't
make it a -- a prior condition, but they can select
applicants on the basis of which ones they know agree
with the government's objectives?
You -- you have two equally qualified -
technically, two equally qualified applicants, and the
government intentionally picks the one whose views on -
on prostitution are -- are similar to the government's.
Is -- is that bad?
MR. BOWKER: Yes. And -- and the reason
it's bad is because the government there is focused on
viewpoint and not on ability to perform the program.
The problem -- the problem with focusing -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But let -- let me -- let
me ask you this: Suppose that you're a Congressman or a
Congresswomen and you are a constitutional expert and
you take your oath to uphold the Constitution very
seriously. A funding bill comes before you. You're the
chairman of the committee, and you decide that you're
going to fund A rather than B because you like their
speech much better. Is that a violation of the
Constitution?
MR. BOWKER: Well -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because you like their
policies much better?
MR. BOWKER: The -- the Congress can
certainly fund a particular program and not fund others.
And we have no -- we have no argument with that. The
spending condition -- the Spending Clause definitely
comes with that ancillary power. And in fact that's
what the Congress did here. It said, We want to -- We
want to fund a fight against HIV/AIDS. We don't want to
support that disease. And we want to oppose
prostitution. We don't want to support that practice.
What it cannot do, then, is take its
viewpoint and impose its viewpoint on the grantee and
make it a -- make it a condition.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm -- I'm not quite
sure I -- I see the difference. That the -- a
conscientious Congressperson cannot -- can, in your
view, say, I'm going to prefer organization A over
organization B because I like their policies better -
MR. BOWKER: Well, I don't -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- across the board, with
reference to drugs, with reference to guns, with
reference to public health.
MR. BOWKER: If -- if Congress is looking at
the viewpoint of an organization and deciding whether to
fund it based on its viewpoint, I think that's
problematic. And the reason I think it's problematic is
because this Court has said to deny a subsidy or a
benefit on the basis of the exercise of one's First
Amendment rights, including holding one's own views, to
deny a subsidy on that ground -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, my goodness. They
can't -
MR. BOWKER: -- is problematic.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- they can't fund the Boy
Scouts of America because they like the programs that
the BSA has? They -- they have to treat them
equivalently with the Muslim Brotherhood? Is that
really what you're suggesting?
MR. BOWKER: Not at all. I think -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then you can take
into account the -- the principles and the -- and the
policies of -- of the organization that you're giving
funding to.
MR. BOWKER: Well, this Court has never said
that the Congress can make a decision based on viewpoint
alone.
JUSTICE BREYER: But there's no way to
separate -- with an organization in the field that does
things, there is no way, I don't think, to separate what
they do from what they say.
Congress has two opposite views on this in
front of it.
MR. BOWKER: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: One is the view that the
way to fight AIDS is consistent with and is furthered by
longer term efforts to abolish trafficking in women,
okay, prostitution. All right.
The other view is the better way to do it is
to go into the active sex worker area and -- and not
express views on the merits of what they are doing.
Okay?
So they have two opposite views, and -- and,
moreover, the groups that do this act on those views.
So why can't they say, we prefer view A or B, whichever
it is, because that's what our program is about?
MR. BOWKER: Congress can -- can certainly
decide what programs to fund and what programs not to
fund. But when Congress makes that decision, Congress
then can't take the next step to say the only people who
can get funds under this particular program are people
who agree with us and who will refrain from saying
anything inconsistent in their private speech.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you -- you go further
than that. In answer to my question, you -- you go
further than that, and you say, Moreover, even without
making it a condition precedent to getting the money,
Congress can -- the government cannot intentionally
select those people that it thinks are in accord with
its views. Right? Isn't that what you said?
MR. BOWKER: The Court has never said that's
okay, and it's our -- and it's our -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not asking what the
Court said; I'm asking what you're saying.
MR. BOWKER: It's our position that it is
constitutionally problematic to make funding decisions
based on the viewpoint of grantees.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Problematic or -- or
unconstitutional?
MR. BOWKER: Unconstitutional as applied
here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. BOWKER: However -- however, we are not
saying that there is no circumstance in which the
government's interest wouldn't be compelling enough to
override the First Amendment right.
Now, in our situation -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So just say the
government wants to have an ad campaign to discourage
people from smoking and they are looking for ad agencies
to -- to help them with it. And an ad agency comes in
and says, Look, we are the best ad agency there is; we
know exactly how to get to the markets; we know what's
persuasive and all of that. And yet -- and then the ad
agency says, you know, come work at our agency if you
smoke; we think smoking is okay; we have smoking breaks;
we do all this." The government can't take that into
account?
MR. BOWKER: I think the rules are different
when the government hires a spokesperson. When the
government hires a spokesperson, the government has the
right under the -- under its ancillary power under the
Spending Clause to control what that spokesperson says
for the government.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, isn't that
part of what's going on here? One of the things we want
to do is eradicate prostitution and sex trafficking, and
we want you to get that message out, and the one thing
we're sure of is if you're not in -- if you're in favor
or you're not opposed to it because you have other
objectives, you're not going to help get the message out
at all.
MR. BOWKER: Well, the -- the government
does say that. The government says, What we need to
prevent is the situation where the -- the government
spokesperson says one thing with public funds, turns
right around and says the opposite with private funds.
And what we say is this is an as-applied
challenge. We have -- the government concedes my
clients have not been enlisted as government
spokespersons and they are not responsible for conveying
any viewpoint or any message.
And I'd like to talk for a moment about what
my clients really do. In the field, my clients provide
services in the fight against HIV/AIDS, things such as
preventing mother-to-child transmission of HIV in
Tanzania, caring for orphans of AIDS victims in Kenya,
and providing HIV/AIDS support services in places like
Vietnam. And -- and this is a JA88 and 89, where you
can see the list of things that my clients do. None of
those things relate to an opposition to prostitution and
none of those things relates to messaging.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. That's my
problem, which is I'm trying to tease out what your
position is. Okay? I -- I have an understanding of
you're saying: You can't compel me to say I don't like
something. And -- and that's like a oath of loyalty.
That -- that's understandable.
But if the government said the following
more clearly -- this is an oddly phrased policy, okay,
because it seems to be requiring this oath. But if it
simply said, "If you're an organization that wants our
funds, you have to say that you're not going to promote
actively the contrary policy," would that be okay?
"You're not going to go out there and do things to
promote the legalization of prostitution because that's
going to undermined our message." Those are two
different positions, so tell me where you draw the line.
MR. BOWKER: Certainly, that would be okay
within the four corners of the government program. The
government controls speech and conduct within its
program. It can tell us what not to say within the
program. And that's Rust.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes, that's Rust.
MR. BOWKER: And that's Rust. And what -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is a step further.
MR. BOWKER: And what Rust says, and I -- I
think we fall back on Rust, which we think is just on
all fours with where we are here, and that is what the
government cannot do -- and I think this answers your
question -- is outside the government program the
government cannot control private speech. And it was
critical in that case -- Justice Rehnquist, at pages 196
and 197, said, "The doctors there and the public health
organizations there are free to engage in their own
private speech and their own activities, and they are
not required to endorse any viewpoint they don't, in
fact, hold." And here -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that is saying
this is what's happening in Rust, okay? And Rust is
okay. That's very different from saying it has to be
that way and if it's any other way it's no good. It
seems to me that you're just taking the limitation on
the facts in Rust and saying that is an absolute
requirement, which is a misreading of the case.
MR. BOWKER: Rust does not say that, to be
clear. But the reasoning of Rust, and the majority's
reasoning there, makes quite clear that the reason the
Court was comfortable there is that the recipient was
not the target of the control. The control was around
the program and the recipient was free outside the
program.
And -- and Respondents here have respected
that line. There is no question that for the past 10
years, even though the policy requirement has not been
enforced -- initially because the Department of Justice
concluded that it is unconstitutional, and then
subsequently because the district court enjoined it -
it has not been enforced for the last decade,
essentially.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So -
MR. BOWKER: And there's no evidence of harm
at all here, so there's none of this undercutting the
program that the government is alleging here. Sorry,
Justice.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, no. I cut you
off. But -- but I guess what I'm -- I keep going
back -- you keep going back and forth on this it -- it's
not okay to tell me to take an oath of loyalty. But
would it be okay for you to step outside the doors of
this program and pass out literature that promotes the
legalization of prostitution?
Am I making my question clear?
MR. BOWKER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which is how do you -
how do you answer the question of why does the
Constitution bar the government from saying, look, if
you're going to work with me, you can't go out there and
promote a -- actively promote -
MR. BOWKER: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- a different message?
MR. BOWKER: That's not the case here, but
taking that case -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well -
MR. BOWKER: Taking that case, I think the
government can't do that. I think the government cannot
gag an organization's private speech outside the
program.
Now, even the government says there has to
be some germaneness between what they are doing in the
program and what our requirement is. So I do think it
would be a tougher case for us and a stronger case for
the government if my clients were engaged in a program
that opposed prostitution -- we're not, but if we
were -- and then we went right outside and said the
opposite with our private funds, I think they would have
an easier time showing that there is some compelling
interest that overrides the First Amendment interest.
Now, I think it would depend on the facts,
and those are not the facts here.
JUSTICE BREYER: Only because -- see, it's
not -- it's not, in my opinion, not a viewpoint matter
if they're going to fund a -- a group that wants to end
discrimination against women around the world because
they think all kinds of good things will flow from that.
The government wants to fund it. Of course such a group
has a viewpoint; that's why they're in the business.
So the word isn't viewpoint. And you
started to say something about that there is more than
that here, it has to do with the express nature. And
then, in answering Justice Sotomayor, you went a little
bit further on that. And what are the form of words, if
you were me and if I were to decide in your favor, what
form of words would you dictate to describe where it is
in your opinion that the First Amendment cuts in with a
preventative restriction? How do you describe it? I --
I don't think you can in terms of viewpoint.
MR. BOWKER: I don't think you can in terms
of viewpoint either, Justice Breyer. I do think that
the key, the key that this Court outlined in Rust is the
government's authority to control its program. And if
there is a threat to its program and the government
needs to take some action in order to protect its
program, prevent the message from being garbled or
distorted, whatever the language is, then the
government's case is strongest.
Here, that is not at all what is happening.
As I described, our programs are not opposition to
prostitution programs. Our programs are HIV testing.
These are mother-to-child transmission situations where
we're trying to stop the disease from spreading.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let me -- can I -- can I be
sure -
MR. BOWKER: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- I understand what you've
just conceded in -- in your response to Justice Breyer.
The government could require as a condition to come into
this program and become a partner with the United
States, that the recipient not have the viewpoint of
favoring prostitution.
MR. BOWKER: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you said it's not a
viewpoint thing.
MR. BOWKER: No. The government cannot
target viewpoint, and for us, that's -- that's a
bright-line rule.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought that's what you
just said to Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: I did too, because I -- I
didn't see the reason. I thought that was -- I can
think of dozens and dozens of programs all over the
world that the government supports in some way or
another, and of course the people in those programs have
a certain viewpoint, and of course, they don't hold the
opposite viewpoint.
Otherwise, they wouldn't be in the program.
So -- so that's why I didn't find that useful. But now,
I don't think you can have it both ways between
answering these questions.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Him or me? You have to
choose.
(Laughter.)
MR. BOWKER: Mr. Chief Justice, I need your
help on -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can always
choose me, too.
MR. BOWKER: Well, our position here is that
viewpoint is not the basis on which a decision can be
made. That is our position. We think the government
has a multitude of permissible grounds on which to make
these types of decisions, and they do it every day in
every other program where they don't have this odd
policy requirement. They do it every day.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your approach, it
seems to me, is just dealing with the breadth of the
program. If the program here solely concerned
prostitution and sex trafficking and not other areas
where you say, look, we do a great job in these other
areas, we just don't get involved in that area. But if
the sole program was on prostitution and sex
trafficking, you -- you wouldn't have a leg to stand on,
would you?
MR. BOWKER: We absolutely would have a leg
to stand on, and let me just explain -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you're an
organization -
MR. BOWKER: -- what I attempted to concede
before, and that is, if -- if the government -- in that
narrow case where the government is hiring a
spokesperson, which is what they've focused on, saying
one thing with public funds and turning right around and
saying another with private funds, there is no case that
says they can gag the private speech of that
spokesperson.
But what we're saying is it is certainly
possible that they would have a stronger case in that
particular circumstance; however, this is an as-applied
challenge, my clients are not spokespersons, they
concede that. My clients are not delivering a message
or any particular viewpoint on behalf of the government
and they concede that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me -- let me just
ask -- ask this one more time. It seems -- because it
seems to me that when you get into the details of your
answer, you indicate, oh, well, the government has lots
of other criteria it could use, which seems to me just
an invitation to disguise what the government's real
motive is.
Suppose the government's interested in
preventing and stopping the spread of malaria. And
there's an organization that's marvelous at delivering
the proper message for this, but they criticize the
United States often. So they choose an organization
that's not quite as good but is quiet on these other
issues.
Is that permissible for the Congress to do?
MR. BOWKER: No, I don't think it is. To
the extent the -- the criteria used by the Congress are
merely pretext to -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, this isn't -- no.
My concern was that your position was pretext. Here the
Congress is right upfront.
MR. BOWKER: And says this is the reason.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And they say the reason
we're not giving to organization A is because it's
always critical of the United States; even though its
technical skills are better, we prefer organization B.
Congress cannot do that?
MR. BOWKER: Congress cannot do that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And your best case for
that proposition is what?
MR. BOWKER: Well, even the government
concedes that -- that they can't do that. What they say
is that in -- it must be germane. That's their limiting
principle.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm -- I'm not sure
they should if they're going to -- if they're going to
be able to establish the principle that allows them to
prevail in this case and that's why I'm asking.
MR. BOWKER: I -- I don't think that that's
permissible, because all that is, is penalizing a
particular viewpoint and withholding a subsidy or
benefit based on viewpoint.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I just want to make
sure I -- the government has a program to develop water
resources. And let's say it's in South Africa before
the abolition of apartheid. And there's a pro-apartheid
group and an anti-apartheid group, and you're saying the
government can only decide which one is better at
digging wells, and it can't say we're going to prefer
the anti-apartheid group.
MR. BOWKER: Well, that -- I don't think it
can make that decision based on viewpoint. However -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Viewpoint on
apartheid. It can't say, so, the other one shows we've
got a better record, we dig the wells quicker.
MR. BOWKER: I mean, the -- the reason that
that case is so much tougher than this one is because in
this one, they're not attempting to select organizations
that will do the best job by using the policy
requirement. The policy requirement is being used after
the organization has been selected to say, now that
you've been selected, we want you to toe the line. We
want you to profess your belief in our viewpoint and not
to say anything with your private funds outside the
program.
So it is so far beyond this -- this weighing
in a selection situation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It goes to the
effectiveness of the program. It's related to it. The
United States doesn't want the company or the
organization that goes into a village and says we're
going to bring -- you know, this is from the United
States, we're bringing you fresh water and it's a
pro-apartheid group.
That does undermine what they are trying to
do, just as in this case to have the organization
providing the services that your organization provides
be identified as as an organization that doesn't want to
abolish prostitution.
MR. BOWKER: Yes, I understand.
I -- I think the government could -- if it
could make the case that an organization will be unable
to do this effectively because of what it has said in
the past, or what it has done in the past, or how -- how
the population associates -- what the population
associates with that organization.
But here -- here -- and the government even
concedes -- there would -- there has to be some -- I
think the word was, it has to be tightly tethered to the
programmatic objective. Now, we think that's -- that's
way too easy to fulfill; that should not be the
standard. But that's what they say the limiting
principle is, is germaneness, tightly tethered.
In -- in your example, I think that probably
doesn't even meet their limiting principle. But in our
case -- in our case, there is no tethering at all. We
are out testing for the disease by extracting blood and
running tests. We're out caring for orphans. We are
out improving public health services that NGOs deliver,
and they're saying now you have to profess your belief
in our particular viewpoint.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't say, "profess
belief." I was going to ask you about that. That's not
what the statute says. It just says they have to have a
policy.
MR. BOWKER: Well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: A policy. Which means I
suppose they have to tell their employees don't do
anything to -- to foster prostitution. But they don't
have to get up -- get up and announce publicly, we
oppose prostitution, do they?
MS. GOLDENBERG: Well, as it's been applied
to us, it's more than just have a policy. It's have a
policy and then tell us you agree with our policy, and
we want to make sure that you believe it so we know that
you will do a good job in the program.
So the purpose here is to police -
JUSTICE SCALIA: They can get all that
without making you profess it, unless -- unless you
consider the only profession to be the assurance to the
-- to your partner, the United States government, that
you -- that you in fact oppose prostitution.
MR. BOWKER: Well, that's -- that's
precisely it, Justice Scalia, is we are required to
profess our allegiance to the government.
JUSTICE SCALIA: To tell the government.
That's -- that's the only profession you're
talking about.
MR. BOWKER: That's the profession that
we're required to -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh. Okay.
MR. BOWKER: -- that's the pledge. As -- as
the author of -- of the provision called it, it was the
pledge. That's the pledge to the government.
Now -
JUSTICE BREYER: And then they're doing
that, they say, because we're part of the belief as a
matter of policy that the best way to go about this,
whether you think so or not, is to restrict the grants
to those people who will oppose the long-term extension
of prostitution expressly.
Now, that's their view of how to get rid of
AIDS, you say. Might disagree with it, but there are
plenty of people who think the opposite. So they're
saying we're not doing it for any reason other than to
further our policy.
MR. BOWKER: The government no doubt has a
good reason for putting it there. The problem is the
First Amendment, and where does that -- where does that
end? What is the limiting principle? If all that's
required here is germaneness and then you give a dollar
and you own the viewpoint and you own the private
speech, where does that end?
What that means is -- on the government's
theory, the government can give you -- can give anyone
in the country a dollar in Medicare funds and say, okay,
now that you've taken a dollar of our money, we want you
to profess your agreement with the Affordable Care Act,
and we want you to never say anything inconsistent with
that in your private speech.
That is -- that is wildly inconsistent with
the First Amendment. That's exactly what's happening
here. The only difference is the subject of
prostitution. That's what makes it less palatable.
But for us -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you -- what -- are
you saying that you can -- within the government
program, within the government program, the government
can specify whatever it wants, including this -- this
policy, but it can't then say and the organization
outside the program is also bound by this profession?
MR. BOWKER: Within the program, they can
tell us, if we are speaking for them, what to say,
and -- on their behalf, not ours. And they can tell us
what not to say, which is Rust. They cannot command
fealty to their viewpoint and they certainly cannot
control our private speech outside the program.
Now, to be clear, I just want to address one
last thing before my time runs. To be clear,
Respondents here do not promote prostitution nor do they
approve of it. They merely want to be free in their own
private programs to operate those programs as they see
fit, consistent with public health objectives, and they
want to be able to participate in the policy
conferences.
They want to be able to publish papers, and
they want to be able to be a part of the discussion in
the marketplace of ideas right here in the United
States, not in the -- in the nether reaches of the
world -- right here in the United States.
They would like to be free to engage in this
important discussion and to be unfettered by a policy
requirement that demands fealty to the government's
viewpoint.
Now, the First Amendment gives Respondents
that right, and -- and that's why we are here.
So unless the Court has further questions -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Srinivasan, you have 4 minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.
Just a -- a few points in rebuttal.
First, by -- by way of characterizing this
requirement, I think there has been a suggestion made
that what we are trying to do is impose a viewpoint on
organizations. This is not a matter of imposing a
viewpoint on somebody. It's a matter of picking
organizations with which to work who self-identify as
having views that are commensurate with the government's
views, so that they will be reliable in carrying out the
government's program.
Now, Justice Kennedy, you'd asked about
why -- whether the foreign context of the case-
JUSTICE ALITO: I don't want to interrupt
your rebuttal, but I don't see the difference between
those two, those two things that you just tried to
distinguish.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Because it goes to the
limitation that the Court has imposed in its decisions
about leveraging funding so as to suppress viewpoints.
That's not what's going on here. This is not a case in
which funding is being leveraged to suppress a
viewpoint. It's a case in which we are trying to get an
ex ante determination of whether the organizations that
are going to carry out the Federal program agree with
our policies.
If they do, they can participate -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose you have an
organization that previously has expressed support for
the legalization of -- of prostitution. Then when you
tell them, well, if that's your policy you can't get our
money, they say, well, we need your money, so we're
going to have to say uncle and now we are opposed to the
legalization of prostitution. That then -- that isn't
trying to change people's viewpoint?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I don't think -
JUSTICE ALITO: -- to change the viewpoint
that they are expressing?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It's not -- Justice Alito,
with all respect, I don't think it's trying to change
their viewpoint. I think if they decide later on that
they would affirm to us that they agree with the policy
at that point in time, well, we may -- we may take that
observation and engage them.
But I don't think that effort is to try to
change their viewpoint. It's to try to get them to
self -- self-identify that they are going to be reliable
in carrying out the government program.
Justice Kennedy, you'd asked the question
about whether the foreign context matters, and I talked
about why it matters in the sense that monitoring can be
challenging in this context. It also matters in another
sense that I should add, which is that when the
organizations are doing this work in those areas, they
are identified as working with the United States
government.
There is a statutory provision at 291(a) of
the petition appendix, which is 22 U.S.C. 7611(h), and
that requires the global AIDS coordinator to develop a
message that enhances awareness by program recipients
that the program is an effort on behalf of the citizens
of the United States.
So there is a real perception out there that
when the organization is carrying out its functions,
it's doing so at the behest of the United States
citizens. And part of what Congress wanted to do was to
avoid a misimpression about why -- about what the United
States' policy priorities are.
And one way to do that is to assure that the
organizations with which the United States works share
the United States' policy commitment against
prostitution and sex trafficking.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I would have less
problem accepting your message if there weren't four
major organizations who were exempted from the policy
requirement and -- medical science -- vaccinators are
exempted.
There seems to be a bit of selection on the
part of the government in terms of who it wants to work
with. It would seem to me that if you really wanted to
protect the U.S., you wouldn't exempt anybody from this.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Sotomayor, Congress
is not required to -- to pursue every objective no
matter what the cost may be. The Court confronted a
similar situation in Regan. That case involved an
exemption for veterans. The Court applied a rationality
standard and said -- said that was fine. And there's
certainly a rationale here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Srinivasan, that was
one, veterans. Everybody else was subject to the
lobbying restriction. Here it's 20 percent of the funds
go to the organizations that are free from this pledge.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Ginsburg, I think
the exemption for these organizations makes good sense
if you consider the character of the organizations.
Three of the four are -- have members that are sovereign
entities. And so one can understand -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Srinivasan -
MR. SRINIVASAN: Can I just finish this
thought?
One can understand why Congress would have
wanted to tread with sensitivity when -- when we are
dealing with foreign countries, especially foreign
countries that have different views about prostitution.
And there's less of a danger -- and this is
the final point -- there's less of a danger in that
context that those entities' views are going to be
misattributed to the United States precisely because
they are foreign countries.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:00 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
30:11 affiliate 17:25 19:3 20:19 21:2 applied 29:13,15 attack 5:21
46:14 19:2 20:24 23:5 35:1 49:14 attempted 44:13
affiliated 17:10 alternative 17:10 56:16 attempting 47:10
affiliates 18:4 23:15,18 apply 8:11 author 50:10
22:25 27:11 40:24 41:16 approach 43:25 available 25:20
57:19 9:25 America 32:22 17:22 21:5 55:22
agencies 35:11 21:23 21:4 awareness 55:15
9:6,8 answer 23:10 44:5 46:3
21:11 34:11 40:2 45:6 areas 11:10 back 38:4 39:19
34:8 answering 22:16 21:18 27:14,23 39:19
54:5,22 41:12 43:10 44:3,5 55:9 bad 30:22,24
17:15 54:4 argument 1:14 ban 28:18
27:19 anti-abortion 2:2,5,8 3:3,8 banning 28:23
21:14 28:5 31:16 53:3 bar 40:3
33:17 anti-apartheid asking 34:19,20 34:23 46:19
50:20 46:24 47:2 46:15 47:4
anybody 8:2 aspect 9:18 23:4 basic 20:1
12:1,9 apartheid 46:23 associates 48:12 2:4,7,10 3:9
25:7,24 47:6 48:13 28:6 45:1 52:1
53:19 apologies 14:12 associating 53:4 55:16
21:2 52:5
APPEARANC... 14:13 behest 55:20
Breyer 6:3,21 case 3:4 10:2,6 church 24:4,11 compelled 10:7
17:10 19:9,20 17:11 19:10,11 circumstance 9:2 40:23
20:3 21:6,17 23:12 29:18,24 38:9 circumstances 20:24
33:9,16 41:2,20 38:21 40:8,9,11 9:20 12:13,15 competing 9:5
49:17 42:12,24,25 40:18,18 42:2 13:2 19:9,10 competitive 3:18
briefs 6:5 11:13 53:18 54:1,3 classes 24:3 completely 16:19
46:6 bring 47:24 cases 26:11,25 Clause 28:10 complying 18:16
50:15 bringing 47:25 certain 11:20 31:17 35:24 component 5:17
33:20 46:3 32:24 certainly 24:13 39:24 52:5,6 3:12
47:7 brought 14:16 31:15 34:3 clearly 37:11 concede 44:13
47:18 business 5:10 52:3 56:18 36:20 37:1 conceded 42:12
C challenge 36:15 Coalition 7:12 concern 27:9
29:12 35:10 54:15,17,20 42:13 concert 13:24
31:11 capacity 30:10 55:1 comes 9:5 31:6 concluded 7:4
32:6,10 captures 10:20 channel 19:3 31:18 35:12 39:8
33:1,6,15 care 6:17 25:11 20:19 comfortable concrete 18:13
35:1 51:10 character 56:25 38:25 condition 5:20,22
36:9 careful 10:24 characterizing command 52:2 6:1,11 10:4
38:1,3,22 11:7 53:8 commensurate 11:7,8,19 12:4
40:6,8 caring 36:23 Chief 3:3,10 4:5 13:5 53:14 17:22,23 19:16
41:19 48:25 4:15 5:1,5,13 commitment 19:18 20:1,22
carried 15:14 28:3,7,22 29:14 15:11 27:19 21:3,19 22:22
44:9 27:14 29:23 35:9 36:1 56:1 27:11 29:4,16
45:18,24 carries 3:24 38:15 43:14,16 committee 31:7 30:15 31:17,25
47:3 carry 3:21 4:3,7 43:25 44:11 communicating 34:13 42:13
48:7 49:8 12:14 13:15,21 46:20 47:5,20 20:12 conditions 10:22
50:6,9,24 13:22 54:5 52:25 53:5 57:3 communities 11:4
carrying 8:25 57:15 15:22 condition's 21:1
37:22 20:1,20 21:8,21 couple 10:15 decent 21:10 1:4 3:5
constitutionally 43:5 54:21 difference 18:3
34:22 10:3 11:6 16:15 decision 33:7 51:15 53:20
15:8,10,15 17:1 32:14 33:6 decisions 5:19 5:14,15 9:4
5:23,25 53:18 55:5,7 52:24 53:24 dedicated 30:6 35:20 37:19
8:21 9:13 57:12 56:14,16 defend 12:10 38:17 40:7 57:9
15:10,16 continue 19:2 Court's 10:17 25:1,4 26:18 differently 29:13
25:6,11 contraceptives 26:11 deference 27:2 differs 12:25
32:10 23:24 24:2,9 covered 4:10 definitely 31:17 difficult 5:16
34:3,5 contracting create 20:24 degree 22:10 26:19 27:25
45:17 23:25 creating 26:24 deliver 49:1 difficulty 24:20
46:4,5 contrary 37:15 criminal 18:16 delivering 44:25 26:23
56:12 contribute 3:15 criteria 20:9 45:12 dig 47:7
5:24 29:16,25 45:7 demands 52:20 digging 47:1
11:3 28:11 criterion 11:22 deny 32:14,17 direction 18:24
39:1 41:22 52:4 criticize 45:13 39:7 directly 11:15
conveying 36:17 cure 18:5 23:10 40:25 disagree 50:20
coordinator cut 39:17 Deputy 1:17 disallowing
8:23 corners 37:21 41:17 discourage 35:10
correct 11:19 D 3:1 designed 26:16 discrimination
56:25 3:16 dangerous 10:9 desirable 24:17 discussion 52:14
counsel 28:3 DAVID 1:20 2:6 detailed 29:21 disease 5:25
counterproduc... day 20:6 26:11 determination 48:24
countries 18:12 daycare 24:4,4 determined 3:16 23:25 24:8
40:3 57:8,9,14 dealings 14:24 develop 46:21 disguise 45:8
16:6 17:18 51:8 decade 39:10 Development dissonance
either 11:15 13:2 14:2 18:14 family 28:19 55:5 57:8,8,14
employees 49:10 exempted 56:5,7 favor 5:11 18:7 forms 11:15
40:16 enhances 55:15 exists 17:19 14:9,14 25:9 free 24:4 25:2
55:9 enjoined 39:9 expenditure 13:4 27:23 54:5 38:11 39:2 52:8
enlisted 36:16 experience 4:24 felt 8:21 52:18 56:22
14:3 16:24 20:2 final 57:11 48:18
equally 30:18,19 expressing 54:18 fine 56:17 31:15,15,20
espousal 27:11 extent 30:2 40:24 41:16 11:3,14 17:14
establish 46:14 flow 41:6 funds 4:3 11:19
everybody 5:10 face 21:18 44:16 34:7 36:12,13
47:21 ex 15:11 27:19 49:24 follow 8:6 51:8 56:21
exactly 35:14 fall 38:4 foreign 15:14 41:13 50:23
12:9,10 51:20,20 55:3 held 10:3 28:17 incorporated
11:17 41:4 46:13,13 27:19 28:19 hires 35:21,22 indicate 45:6
27:7 54:1,5,13 55:2 41:22 42:2 45:8 HIV 3:13,24 indirectly 25:14
11:17 25:4 GOLDENBE... 52:20 53:14,16 42:5 individuals 25:10
46:10 49:14 grant 3:17 14:1,5 HIV/AIDS 31:20 initially 39:7
6:12 10:13 38:18 41:6 31:24 hold 14:22 38:14 intentionally
11:21 45:15 49:18 grantees 28:14 43:5 30:20 34:14
40:16 50:25 56:24 28:20 34:23 holding 32:16 interactions
51:3 goodness 32:18 grants 50:16 Honor 21:23 15:20 27:15
34:13 4:2,18 5:7 7:25 ground 32:17 hospitals 4:9 40:24,24
14:15 15:2 9:13 10:21 11:2 group 16:18 41:4 16:22 10:10 45:10
18:2,23 11:9,14 12:1,13 41:7 46:24,24 hypothetical interfere 6:11
51:18 12:15,16 13:9 47:2 48:1 23:20 25:6 international 1:3
13:11 14:9,18 groups 33:25 1:8 3:5,6 18:3
51:3,7,7 16:4,5 17:21 18:24 20:16 idea 8:21 12:11 invading 16:5
26:12,12 28:10 guns 25:12,16,17 55:10 24:1,2 27:15
21:13 33:4 29:17 30:5,20 14:6 44:5 56:15
30:24 34:14 H important 6:2 7:4 involves 19:10
28:25 36:10,11,15,16 happened 18:14 impose 31:24 issue 4:11 5:4
34:10,11 37:10,21,22 happening 38:16 53:10 25:12 29:20
40:4 38:6,7,8 39:15 42:3 51:14 imposed 6:1,11 issues 4:25 15:19
56:22 40:3,12,12,15 hard 6:8 12:9 53:24 25:2 45:16
53:23 45:1,6 46:8,21 25:19,21 32:9 including 29:22 job 12:23,25 44:4
8:23 9:8,9 49:23 50:2,3,11 52:10 inconsistent 9:11 Justice 1:18 3:3
4:5,16 5:1 27:8 31:2,12 limitations 4:1210:22 13:4 12:5,23,25 13:4
6:3,21 32:1,7 45:3,21 10:10 11:21,24
8:12 45:25 46:6,12 limited 3:18 11:3
53:17 55:4 25:18,19 52:15 21:13 34:13
12:1,8 Kenya 36:23 limiting 10:16 markets 35:14 51:9 54:12,12
13:13,18 key 41:21,21 12:11 46:10 marvelous 45:12 monitor 27:25
14:2,4,8 kidding 20:6,10 48:19,22 51:2
kind 8:14 10:7 line 37:19 39:5matter 1:13 18:9 15:18 55:6
12:17 47:14 24:21 41:3 morning 3:4
18:2,23 kinds 26:7 41:6 lines 25:8 50:15 53:11,12 mothers 24:3
know 4:9 5:9,15 list 12:2 37:1 56:14 57:19 mother-to-child
21:6,17 12:24 13:13 literature 39:22
18:11 21:11,15 little 5:16 29:13
motive 45:9
24:10 23:25 24:15 41:12 mean 6:14 11:21 multiple 19:15
25:7,24 25:2,23 27:6 loans 11:16 12:612:21 13:14,18 multitude 43:21
26:21,22 29:5 30:16 lobbying 56:21 18:13,25 20:5 Muslim 32:24
28:3,7,22 35:14,14,16 local 15:22,22 20:21 24:15 myriad 15:20
30:13 47:24 49:17 27:15,16 27:4 47:8 27:15
32:1,7 knows 20:4 location 27:9 means 49:9 51:6
33:2,9 long 17:3 24:17medical 56:6 N
34:10,19 L 25:4,5 Medicare 51:8 N 2:1,1 3:1
35:3,9 lands 15:15 longer 33:18 meet 48:22 naked 14:1,5
37:4,25 language 42:1 long-term 50:17members 57:1 narrow 16:9
39:7 Laughter 43:13 look 4:17,19 7:19
lead 7:12 18:14 24:15 merely 45:20 nature 41:11
41:2 League 16:2,14 30:9 35:13 40:3
necessary 18:21
42:8 17:8 20:14 44:4 merits 33:22 need 20:1 23:11
left 28:20 looked 4:16 message 16:23 24:7 36:10
43:11 leg 44:7,9 26:25 36:4,7,18 37:18 43:14 54:12
legal 18:5 19:11 looking 9:4 32:10
41:25 needs 23:15
45:3,21 19:15 35:11 44:25 45:13 41:24
46:6,12 legalization lots 11:14 25:9 55:15 56:4 nether 52:16
47:5,20 37:17 39:23 45:6 messaging 37:3 neutral 9:9,21
50:1 54:10,14 loyalty 4:13 37:8
51:18 legalized 23:3 39:20 minutes 53:1 51:11
53:6,17 let's 4:7 12:5 misattributed new 18:11
54:8,17 14:2 23:21 M 57:13 NGO 18:11,11
55:4 56:3 25:11 46:22 main 15:14 19:23 misimpression 18:20
leveraged 54:2 major 56:5 55:22 NGOs 49:1
leveraging 10:21 majority's 38:23 misreading NGO's 18:15
17:20 making 8:4 34:13 38:21 noted 6:14 10:16
39:20 33:13,24 36:13 overarching 7:1 21:12,18 29:1 22:13,19 26:9
11:5,9 opposition 7:5,17 people's 54:15 21:25 53:7
24:18 30:1 9:6 10:1 37:2 P percent 56:21 police 49:19
56:13 42:4 P 3:1 perception 55:18 policies 31:13
30:17 3:8 28:5 pages 4:23,23 perform 30:25 policy 3:13,19,21
52:10 order 41:24 22:23 38:9 performance 3:23 5:8,8,11
7:12 9:14 12:14 parenting 24:3,5 25:22 30:8 13:25 15:13,24
32:11 33:4,10 56:9 person 13:8 37:11,15 39:6
50:8 45:12,14 46:1,3 52:11 54:7 personal 23:16 49:7,9,15,16
21:1,13 48:5,9,13 51:22 8:15 13:15,22 persuade 8:16 51:22 52:11,19
34:18 54:9 55:19 14:5,6 22:5 persuasive 35:15 54:11,22 55:23
37:6,11 organizational 27:7,18 29:20 pertain 29:20 56:1,5
38:16 17:11,25 30:6,12 31:15 petition 55:13 policymakers
39:20,21 organizations 34:7 44:23 45:1 Petitioners 1:5 27:16
51:8 3:19,20 4:17,21 46:18 49:3 1:19 2:4,10 3:9 population 48:12
38:11 47:10 28:25 42:14 picks 30:20 positions 37:19
41:3,16 55:9,25 56:5,22 partnering 12:14 planning 28:19 44:22
organization's 13:9,10,14,19 please 3:11 28:8 35:23
50:17 orphans 36:23 partners 8:24 50:11,11 56:22 precedent 34:13
36:6 outlined 41:21 pass 39:22 point 6:4,17 7:1 14:19
54:13 outside 28:16,21 passionately 10:15 11:1 precisely 22:8
50:1 21:3 23:9,17 promote 23:24 32:9 36:12 24:7 32:25
28:13 31:1,1 37:14,17 40:5,5 38:10 44:17 36:20 56:10
47:1 problematic promotes 25:21 publicly 16:20 realms 17:24
20:21 proclaims 25:15 properly 20:8 17:20,24 20:19 32:13 38:24
profess 28:14 proposition 10:9 21:14,14 49:19 43:1 45:24,25
50:2 51:10 propositions 25:19 reasoning 38:23
50:4,6 51:23 prostitutes 6:6,7 56:13 reasons 17:9
4:3,7,10 7:19 3:20 4:25 5:23 p.m 57:18 rebuttal 2:8 28:2
36:11 14:23 19:1,2 33:19 36:3 37:2 question 5:14,15 10:6 13:4 14:13
26:7 28:16,19 37:17 39:23 8:13 13:3 15:24 17:14 18:25
29:20,22 30:2,7 44:3,6 48:6 34:11 38:7 39:5 42:15
34:2,7 37:21,23 50:18 51:16 questions 21:12 recipient's 10:4
48:20,22 41:22,23,25 41:24 56:11 quicker 47:7 recycling 5:9
42:14 43:7,23 protected 16:6 quiet 45:15 reference 32:8,8
33:3 47:17,21 49:18 provide 7:16 10:9 16:2,8 references 30:10
9:11 55:3,15,16 25:9 48:4 Regan 16:2
15:13 programmatic providing 9:24 20:14 23:8
11:9 48:17 36:24 48:4
36:13 38:8 3:25 50:10 55:12
40:13,22 programs 15:14 pro-abortion
47:16 19:11,16 24:1 21:14
52:4,9 28:11,12 32:22 pro-apartheid
17:18 19:5 project 28:25 25:12,19,21
53:15 55:2 Respondents S 2:1 3:1 select 29:17 sign 4:13 29:6,9
responses 6:22 44:16,18,21 self 55:2 26:23 37:13
restrict 50:16 says 6:12 9:6,8 self-policing 56:15
56:21 35:13,16,24 sense 5:25 8:15 4:24 42:6
right 5:5 16:6,16 38:3 40:15 27:17,18 55:6,8 slightly 8:14
34:16 35:7,23 47:23 49:6,6 sensitive 27:17 smoking 35:11
12:4 18:20 44:17 45:23 12:21 13:13,18 separate 18:4 Society 1:7 3:6
42:13 52:15,17,23 13:22 14:2,4,8 19:11,12,25 sole 44:6
29:21 ripple 17:15 32:18,21 33:2 22:3 33:10,11 Solicitor 1:17
50:1,7 ROBERTS 3:3 34:10,19,24 seriously 31:6 somebody 6:17
56:13 4:5 5:1,5 28:3 35:3 42:8,11,18 served 17:25 8:4,16 14:17
8:15 10:12 35:9 36:1 38:15 49:4,9,20 50:1 9:24 10:23 sorry 22:15
29:13 43:16,25 44:11 50:3,8 36:21,24 48:4 39:15
39:6 46:20 47:5,20 scheme 26:16 49:1 sort 29:4
43:24 52:25 57:3,15 science 56:6 set 16:20 18:18 Sotomayor 22:12
52:20 rubric 7:17 score 6:22 19:6 19:3 20:3,4 22:15,18 23:9
56:6 rule 10:11,12 Scouts 32:22 setting 18:3 24:10,11 37:4
rules 8:7 35:20 22:22 5:24 7:5,18 9:7 39:12,17 40:1,7
19:4,5 27:18,22 33:21 36:3 44:3 56:3,12
37:12 runs 18:24 52:6 16:17 17:3 sexually 24:7 sovereign 57:1
37:24,25 38:1,3 seeing 22:10 showing 40:23 specific 15:10
15:9 23:3 38:22,23 41:21 seeks 24:4,8 47:6 specify 51:21
52:2 seen 16:21 sides 15:24 speech 8:1 10:7
16:7,11 standard 48:19 26:14 target 7:16 39:1 5:13 6:2,16,22
22:25 56:17 subsidy 12:16 42:21 7:14,15 8:14
28:11,15 start 20:21 32:14,17 46:18 tax 11:16 29:6 9:1,12,19 10:10
started 41:10 suddenly 21:17 Taxation 18:4 10:17,19,24
31:9 34:9 States 1:1,14 sufficiently 22:2 tease 37:5 11:6,21,25
38:8,12 18:19 42:15 22:9 25:4 technical 16:9 12:12 15:7,9,15
44:19 45:14 46:2 suggested 19:8 30:10 46:3 16:25 17:5,11
52:4 47:22,25 49:23 suggesting 20:18 technically 30:19 18:1 19:4,7,13
22:20 55:17,20,23,25 suggestion 53:9 teenage 24:3 20:14 21:1 22:1
11:5 statute 7:3 49:6 Sullivan 14:19 9:10 37:19,23 24:16 25:1,1,3
35:24 step 34:6 38:2 7:13 31:21,22 54:11 27:8,10 29:12
stopping 45:11 31:3 45:10 term 33:18 40:11,12,17,22
44:16,20 straightforward 49:10 54:8 terms 6:15 20:12 40:25 41:6,18
44:24 strictly 25:18,19 26:13 53:25 Terrible 14:11 43:20 45:18
45:11 stronger 40:18 Supreme 1:1,14 testing 42:5 48:16,17,21
53:3 struck 16:15 42:9 46:12,21 tethered 11:8 56:23
3:7,8,10 19:25 20:4,5,11 sweeping 5:19 tethering 48:23 third 8:10
5:3,13 20:11 21:7,7 Thank 3:10 thought 24:25
7:11,22 structured 16:13 T 22:17 28:3 42:23 43:1 57:5
10:14 11:2 16:18 T 2:1,1 52:25 53:5 thoughtful 21:10
12:8 structures 26:24 tailored 21:4 57:15 threat 41:23
13:17,20 student 11:16 take 6:8 7:18 theory 51:7 Three 57:1
14:6,10 12:5 18:13 31:5,23 thing 18:13,18 threshold 22:21
15:1,7 studiously 9:9 33:2 34:6 35:18 18:20,22 20:8 thresholds 26:17
18:2,23 subject 19:16 39:20 41:24 24:22,25 26:21 tightly 11:8
20:16 51:15 56:20 54:23 36:4,12 42:19 48:16,20
22:13 submitted 57:17 taken 9:22 51:9 44:17 52:6 time 6:9 26:22
24:10,13 57:19 talk 28:23 36:19 things 12:2 23:25 28:1 40:23 45:4
26:1 27:6 subscribe 3:25 talked 10:19 25:3 33:11 36:2 52:6 54:23
subsequently 55:5 36:21 37:1,2,3 toe 47:14
56:12 39:9 talking 9:20 37:16 41:6 told 7:24
57:3,4 subsidiary 18:8 17:20 50:5 53:21 totally 16:21
37:18 various 11:15 31:22 36:2,4 wildly 51:13
5:3,24 7:5 8:5 11:1 14:4 21:2 47:22 48:5 46:18
9:7 24:14 42:11 verb 14:11 49:17 51:9,11 women 7:13 16:2
23:2 30:3 48:7 57:2,6 veterans 56:16 52:5,8,11,13 16:14 17:8 18:6
36:3 44:3 understandable 56:20 52:14 53:19 20:15 33:18
56:2 37:9 victims 36:23 wanted 15:10 41:5
42:6 37:6 view 8:17 29:24 57:7 48:16
20:13,13 unfettered 28:20 38:13 41:3,8,9 1:18,20 worker 33:21
23:11 52:19 41:18,20 42:15wasn't 16:14 working 15:21
18:19 42:14 46:18,19 47:4,547:25 55:25
26:5 37:5 47:22,24 49:23 52:3,21 53:10 9:1 16:8,12,24 43:3 52:17
48:2 53:10 52:15,17 55:10 53:12 54:3,15 20:8,23 23:7,7 worldwide 3:13
55:17,20,22,25 54:17,21 55:1 24:15 29:15 worried 13:7
17:8 university 12:4 23:16,19 30:20 50:15 53:8 25:22 35:6 43:7
30:18,19 unusual 14:16 32:16 33:13,22 55:24 44:7 56:11
37:18 upfront 45:23 33:24,25 34:16ways 4:6 30:8,9 Wright 27:4
uphold 31:5 53:14,15 57:9 43:9
Voters 16:2,14 we're 9:8,9,20
34:25 44:21 46:1 47:1 11 4:23 22:23
39:8 v 1:6 3:5 14:18 W 1:20 2:6 28:5 47:23,25 48:25 11:02 1:15 3:2
28:17 22:24 23:1 54:12 12-10 1:5 3:4
57:18
38:9
38:10
56:21
1:11
1:11 55:13
2:7
55:12
2:4
4:23 22:23
4:23 22:23
53:1
7:8
18:18
18:19
2:10
55:13
36:25
