IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MARK J. MCBURNEY, ET AL. :
Petitioners :
v. :
NATHANIEL L. YOUNG, DEPUTY : No. 12-17
COMMISSIONER AND DIRECTOR, :
VIRGINIA DIVISION OF CHILD :
SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, February 20, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:19 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DEEPAK GUPTA, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioners.
EARLE DUNCAN GETCHELL, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General of
Virginia, Richmond, Virginia; on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DEEPAK GUPTA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
EARLE DUNCAN GETCHELL, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DEEPAK GUPTA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:19 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning first in Case 12-17, McBurney v. Young.
Mr. Gupta?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DEEPAK GUPTA
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. GUPTA: Thank you, and may it please the
Court:
All 50 States have public records laws. 47
of those States make access available to residents and
nonresidents on equal terms. Virginia, by contrast,
enforces a discriminatory access policy, and, because
commercial requesters make up the vast majority of
records requesters, out-of-State businesses bear the
brunt of Virginia's policy.
JUSTICE SCALIA: When -- when was the first
of those laws enacted? Do you know? I think it's -- I
think it's in my adult lifetime that Florida was the
first to enact a sunshine law. Is that -- am I correct
about that?
MR. GUPTA: That's right. All of these
laws -
JUSTICE SCALIA: In the '60s.
MR. GUPTA: In the '60s and the early '70s. The
Virginia law was enacted in 1968. And we don't deny
that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you say that's a
fundamental -- that's a fundamental right covered by
Privileges and Immunities Clause, which nobody had until
the 1960s?
MR. GUPTA: Well, to be clear, the modern
transparency laws are new, but they sit on top of
well-established common-law right -- rights to access
that are based, not on modern notions of transparency,
but on the right to secure property and other basic
interests -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But those -- those rights
still exist in this State, don't they? Cannot you get
records of deeds and whatever the common law would have
covered?
MR. GUPTA: Well, it's true that -- that
Virginia's law exempts deeds from its Freedom of
Information law, but, if I understand their position
correctly, they would be entitled, as a constitutional
matter, under their theory, to preclude people from
other States from accessing even deeds.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I'll ask them -- I
didn't understand that to be their position, but -- but
I guess we can ask them. MR. GUPTA: Well, my
client, Mr. Hurlbert,
is in the business of gathering property records for his
clients. Now, it's true that, in Virginia, he could get
the deed, but what he can't get and what he principally
gathers for his clients are real estate tax assessment
records, and those are a much richer storehouse of
property-related information than simply the deed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you -- can you
explain that business a little more fully than you did
in the briefs? He's in the business of collecting
records from all the States about tax assessments.
MR. GUPTA: That's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And he -- and he does
that for a client who could very well ask himself. So
what is the service that's being performed?
MR. GUPTA: Well, he -- you know, he doesn't
just do the routine request. The -- the large data
companies are the ones who hire him. And they -- if
they're routine requests, they can do them themselves;
although if they're not based in Virginia, they would
still have to hire a Virginian to do it.
But they bring him in when there's some flaw
in the -- the routine process where the -- the State is
being recalcitrant or the local official is being
recalcitrant. And he's an expert in being able to gather
these -- these records and knowing the process is
knowing what he's allowed to do and what he's not
allowed to do.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All -- all he has to
do is get somebody from -- from Virginia to ask for him,
right?
MR. GUPTA: Well, he could hire someone from
Virginia to do that, but that's -- you know, that's sort
of precisely what the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you don't
have to pay the person too much, he just has to write a
letter saying, give me these documents, right?
MR. GUPTA: He would still have to hire
someone, and that would be an increased cost. And -- for
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, an increased
cost of -- I don't know how much -- 100 bucks, right?
Go -- write a letter, say you want these documents, and,
when they come to your house, give them to me.
MR. GUPTA: Yeah. For the large data
companies -- you know, they will hire someone other than
him to perform this service. They will -- if you're
talking about routine requests. But even -- you know,
even for them, if you're talking about a -- a request
that isn't routine, if he has to do something further to
enforce the rights, he's going to have to do that in his own
name, or the data company will have to hire someone
other than him, someone based in Virginia, to do that
for them. And then he will lose that business.
So the lower you go down in the food chain
of the data industry, the bigger the effect of
Virginia's policy.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How much -- how much of
an impact, in fact, does it have on his business? I
mean, there are 47 States who will provide this
information.
MR. GUPTA: Well, for -- for him, in the
Virginia market, it completely forecloses him from doing
access -- business in the Virginia market.
And, if other States were to have policies
like this, he wouldn't be able to do business in those
States as well. So if -- if the focus is on him and his
business in Virginia, it completely cuts him off.
If the focus is on -- on what the effect is
in the aggregate, on the market as a whole, because most
public records requests are commercial requests, it's
going to have an effect on most commercial requesters
who are out-of-State. And -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Gupta, I -- I
understand that the -- the reasoning of Virginia in not
allowing out-of-State people to -- to get these FOIA requests
is the following: That the purpose of these -
these laws -- and I remember it when the first ones were
enacted -- government in the sunshine. The purpose of
it was not to enable people to get information, per se;
it was to enable people to see how their government is
working, so that they could attend to any malfeasance
that is occurring in the process of government.
It seems to me entirely in accord with that
purpose of these laws to say it's only Virginia citizens
who -- who are concerned about the functioning of
Virginia government and ought to be able to get whatever
records Virginia agencies have.
What's -- what's wrong with that reasoning?
MR. GUPTA: A few responses, Justice Scalia.
First, transparency was one purpose, but, as
I said, these laws also carried forward the much more
longstanding rights to access based on personal
interests and property interests. Also, even at the
time that these laws were enacted -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but you don't need
any personal or property interest under these laws. You
can just -- just out of curiosity, if you -- if you were a
Virginian, at least, in Virginia, even though you have
no interest in the matter at all, you can ask the agency
for records about this or that. It -- it can't be
based on -- on the
traditional property interest. It's based on the
ability of the citizens of the State to find out what
the -- what the government of the State is up to.
MR. GUPTA: Even -- even at the time that
these laws were enacted in the -- in the '60s, it was
well-understood that they were going to have a big
commercial impact. The property records industry was in
full swing by the end of the late 19th Century.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the point is that
FOIA is tied to, as Justice Scalia said, the citizens
should know what their government is doing. And you
don't have to give any reason at all, if you were a part
of that political community. Now, Virginia doesn't
allow people from out-of-State to vote. They're not
part of Virginia's political community.
So why isn't this -- if you're not part of
the political community, then you don't fall under FOIA,
which is a peculiar statute, in that everybody who is
covered by it can get whatever they want, and they don't
have to give any reason for it.
MR. GUPTA: Right. Well, elections just
simply don't work if you -- if you allow noncitizens to
participate in elections or if you can't wall off the
State in that respect. But what the State can't say is,
simply because one purpose of this law is that we want
to constitute ourselves as a political community, that
we can exclude activities that have a big commercial
effect.
And -- you know, when we're looking under
the Dormant Commerce Clause or under the Privileges and
Immunities Clause, this Court's cases have said
repeatedly you don't look to uncover the original
legislative purpose, you look to whether there is
discrimination, which there is here, on its face, and
you look to whether there is a discriminatory effect.
One example of how this policy is actually
being -
JUSTICE KAGAN: And is the only thing that's
necessary -- excuse me -- is the only thing that's
necessary that the law affect a few people commercially?
I mean, how much -- how many of the requesters have to
be engaged in some kind of commercial activity in order
for your arguments to work?
MR. GUPTA: Well, what this Court has said
is that there is no de minimis exception, if there's
discrimination against commerce, but, here, what's going
on is anything, but de minimis. Virginia does not deny
that the -- the vast majority of the requesters are
commercial requesters -- the vast majority of out-of-State
requesters are commercial requesters.
Their -- the amicus brief supporting their
side, the Local Government Attorneys of Virginia amicus
brief, at page 30, explains the way this policy -
policy is being implemented, is that noncommercial
requests are typically honored, but out-of-State
requests by data miners are being categorically denied
under the policy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But this -- this is
not -- this is not a regulation of commerce. It's a
State practice that may have an incidental effect on
commerce, and the incidental effect may be
disproportionate, depending upon whether you're State or
local, but it's not a regulation of commerce.
MR. GUPTA: But that's -- that was the
Fourth Circuit's theory, and I think incidental can mean
a few different things, and I think in -- in their
opinion, it -- it does mean at least three different
things. So maybe it would be helpful if I try to unpack
that.
If it means incidental in terms of the
effect on my client's business, I think, as I've
explained, it's anything, but incidental; it completely
forecloses him from the market. If it means incidental
in terms of the -- the aggregate effect of this statute,
again, it's not incidental because the vast majority
of -- of affected parties under this policy are
out-of-State commercial requesters, particularly data
companies.
And -- you know, if it means incidental
compared to the purpose of the statute, as I've said,
transparency was one purpose of the modern FOIA laws,
but they also subsumed and sit on top of all of the
longstanding rights of public access that have been
around since the -- the first settlements in the United
States -- or before the United States, when, in order to
have a functioning property system, we recognized that
you've got to have records of who owns what and -- and
those records have to be made available to anyone in
order to exercise property rights.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the State of
Virginia says, as a policy, we want to help Virginia
businesses, and so we're going to open a business
training, best practices institute, where you're going
to learn how to be a better business person, but the
only people who can come in are -- are Virginia
businesses.
MR. GUPTA: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under your theory,
because that will have an effect -- an incidental effect on
commerce in a way that's discriminatory, is -- is
that unconstitutional?
MR. GUPTA: I don't think so. And there are
a couple of distinctions.
First, that's not something that the State
exclusively is able to provide. It's not like the
courthouse or the public archives across the street or
the road that runs between them that only the -- the
State is able to provide.
Anyone can provide a business training
institute, so the State is just one player among many.
Also -- running a
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that -- that just goes
to the extent of the impact, not -- not on the
principle. And you say extent doesn't matter. You say
there's no such thing as a de minimis exception.
MR. GUPTA: No -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So that -- that explanation
doesn't -- doesn't seem, to me, to hold water.
MR. GUPTA: Well, maybe I didn't explain it
very well. To be clear, I think it's more than just a
difference in degree; it's a difference in kind. These
are fundamentally different when -- when you're talking
about running the courthouse or running the public
archives, nobody else can do that. Nobody else
can collect -- you know, make
tax assessments, collect those records, and keep the
official public archive of those things. That -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So what? So what? Except
to the extent that that bears upon how much of a -- an
imposition this is upon interstate commerce. It seems,
to me, that's the only relevance of that point.
MR. GUPTA: Well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and you dismiss that
relevance. You say it doesn't matter how extensive the
impact is on -- on interstate commerce.
MR. GUPTA: Well, to the extent that you -
you think it does matter, I mean, that -- that
distinction doesn't matter in this case because the
impact is -- is great. The principal impact is an
impact on out-of-State commerce.
But let me -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that -- when
you're talking about impact, is that a Pike analysis?
MR. GUPTA: No. I think this -- if you were
in -- in the dormant Commerce Clause, this would be the
per se rule of invalidity. You have facial
discrimination. The -- the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought, if
it was facial discrimination, you're not concerned about
impact.
MR. GUPTA: That's right. That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought a question
of talking about the effects on interstate commerce,
that's the -- you know, the Pike analysis.
MR. GUPTA: No. What this Court has said is
that -- that the first -- sort of first-tier scrutiny,
the per se rule is -- is for cases where there's
discrimination on its face or discrimination in effect.
And then you've got this other category for the -- the
Pike analysis, where the State regulates evenhandedly.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's your closest case
in support of the proposition that this is impermissible
as a discrimination against interstate commerce? What's
your best case?
MR. GUPTA: When you say, "this," you mean
the -- that public records access is commerce?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If -- if you -- you are
arguing, as one of your arguments here, that this is
discriminatory as to -- as to interstate commerce, as I
understand your argument, what is the best case you have
to support your position? What's the closest case?
MR. GUPTA: Well, I think if you're -- if
you're -- if the question is about whether or not
records access is commerce, there's Reno v. Condon this
Court's unanimous decision -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, my question is
what's the best case you have for your argument?
MR. GUPTA: Well, I think -- you know, this
Court's unanimous decision in Reno v. Condon held that,
because people buy public records and sell them in
interstate commerce, that's, indisputably, interstate
commerce. So we -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that wasn't a
discrimination. That wasn't a -
MR. GUPTA: That's right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's just -- that goes
to the question whether or not this is commerce.
MR. GUPTA: That -- that's right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what is your best
case to show that this is discriminatory in violation of
our precedence?
MR. GUPTA: Well, Virginia doesn't deny that
there's discrimination on its face, so I take your
question to be asking -- you know, what about the
commerce aspect? And in Reno v. Condon -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now -- if I have
to write the opinion, what case do I put down? I'm
waiting.
MR. GUPTA: Yeah, I mean, you -- okay. So you
can also look to Camps Newfound, which, I think -
you know, was much -- much more attenuated to commerce.
There, you had a generally applicable law, a property
tax law -
JUSTICE BREYER: If I only have time to read
one case -
MR. GUPTA: Yeah.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- or possibly two, which
would you like me to read? I think that's, basically,
the question.
(Laughter.)
MR. GUPTA: Yeah. I mean -- you know, look.
There's no case that's -- that's entirely on all fours,
but -
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. But I assume you
don't want me -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's why you're here.
(Laughter.)
MR. GUPTA: So right. So -- so -- okay. So
the Camps Newfound case is -- is a case where you had a
generally applicable law. It was a property tax law.
It exempted -- you know, charities that served primarily
in-State residents.
It was -- there is no evidence that the
State of Maine intended that to be a -- you know, a
discrimination against commerce and, obviously, swept
more broadly and affected both commerce and
non-commerce. But this Court said that -- you know, you
had facial discrimination against commerce because there
were people operating these summer camps, and they were
treated differently -
JUSTICE BREYER: I'll look at those. But I
think the Commerce Clause, basically, has, as its
objective, insofar as it's dormant, to prevent a
legislature or decisionmaker within its State
discriminating in favor of their own State producers.
MR. GUPTA: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, it's pretty hard for
me to put this case into that mold.
MR. GUPTA: Well, I mean, one -- you know,
one piece of evidence, Justice Breyer, is the media
exception to the Virginia statute. It -- this -- this
makes it clear that Virginia was aware that people who
were requesting information for commercial purposes were
going to use this statute and they exempted the press -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's just Virginia media,
though, isn't it? Isn't it only media that -
MR. GUPTA: That's right, Justice Scalia.
So it's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- exists or is broadcast into
Virginia?
MR. GUPTA: That's right. So it's -
it's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's consistent
with their purpose, that this statute is meant to assure
good, honest government in Virginia.
MR. GUPTA: Well, if this is a statute, it's
a pretty unusual statute that discriminates among
newspapers, so it says -
JUSTICE BREYER: If it does what the -- I
had exactly the same question for both parts of your
argument, that what it's their -- am I right in thinking
that anyone can get any information -- anyone in any
State can get any information that pertains to him or
her? Is that right or not?
MR. GUPTA: There is a separate Virginia -
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right or not?
MR. GUPTA: Yes. There is a
separate Virginia statute that allows this.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. That's what I wanted
to know, whether it's separate or not.
MR. GUPTA: That's right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Anyone from Alaska to
Hawaii can get any information that pertains to him or
her. Second, that this has nothing to do with
judicial records, there is a different statute that
makes judicial records public.
MR. GUPTA: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So we're, now,
talking about the class of information, other than the
two classes I've mentioned.
And I then ended up -- and I'd like you to
add something to this, if you can, that, really, this is
about -- since getting information involves usually a
benefit to the recipient, but, sometimes, harm to the
person the information is about, that willing to run
that harm and risk of harm is the interest in State good
government, okay?
MR. GUPTA: Uh-huh.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, if that's the
interest, that's an interest that probably a State has
the right, just as it has the right to say other people
can't vote in State elections, if that's the interest,
then I guess it could take reasonable measures related
to that interest.
All right. Now, that is the -- the argument
or the position that I would appreciate your addressing.
MR. GUPTA: Sure. You know, that -- we
don't deny that that's an interest that the State has, but
then you have to see whether the -- the interest is
reasonably furthered by the statute. And, here, you
have a resource that is not finite, and the statute
allows the State to recoup its expenses.
So nothing is lost to Virginians. There
isn't any loss in transparency to Virginians by
extending access to out-of-State data companies.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if it costs for
Virginia -- Virginia has to take care of its own, and,
if it has to service FOIA requests from all over, it's
going to cost the State. It's going to have to hire
people to do this. They're going to have to spend many
hours going through these records, so the State
doesn't -- it wants to conserve its resources for its
own people.
MR. GUPTA: But -- but there's no loss in
resources, Justice Ginsburg, because the statute allows
Virginia to fully recoup any administrative expenses.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm having -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But they -- but they just
don't want out -- they -- they don't want outlanders
mucking around in -- in Virginia government. It's
perfectly okay for good old Virginians to do that, but
they don't want outlanders to do it. Why -- why is that
unreasonable? MR. GUPTA: Yeah. That -- that is
certainly
their interest. But you've got to see whether the
policy serves -- serves -- you know, the interest,
and -- and this is a statute that is supposed to promote
transparency. It actually makes it less transparent.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm -- I -
there is underlying your argument a sort of fundamental
belief that you are entitled to relief -- pardon the
alliteration -- simply because the statute discriminates
between citizens and noncitizens. Is that your
position?
MR. GUPTA: No, not at all, I mean -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if it's not, what are
the two rights that you -- or what rights are it that
you're claiming have been violated? You say privileges
and immunities. What's the privilege or immunity?
MR. GUPTA: It's the privilege or immunity
of pursuing a common calling across State borders. So
there's no dispute here that Mr. Hurlbert's common
calling is -- is gathering data. In fact, those are the
principal users of public records laws.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So is this -- is this an
as-applied challenge to the -
MR. GUPTA: That's right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. MR.
GUPTA: That's right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So this is an as-applied
challenge?
MR. GUPTA: Yes. So -- so it's an
as-applied challenge with respect to Mr. Hurlbert's
common calling. There's no -- there's no dispute that
that is his common calling and that this law has the
effect of completely cutting him off from pursuing his
common calling in the Virginia market and that 47 other
States -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then you would be doing
something very strange with this statute because you
would be saying Hurlbert has a right to this because
it's his business. But the statute, the character of
this statute is it doesn't matter what you want the
information for.
But you're saying the out-of -- the
in-Stater, it doesn't matter. Out-of-Stater, is it your
argument that, if this out-of-Stater has a good reason
for getting this and it's related to the out-of-State's
business, so you -- you're changing the character of a
FOIA statute, which is it doesn't matter what you want
it for.
MR. GUPTA: Right. I mean, you would -- you
know, we would -- we would ask that you rule that the statute
is unconstitutional, as applied to him, and then
Virginia would have the choice, if it has a -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I'm having a
problem, and then I think it's Justice Ginsburg's
problem, which is, absent the statute, he can't demand
that Virginia provide him with this information because
that's how he wants to work, correct?
So what's the added value that gives him a
right to demand it merely because a statute exists? He
doesn't have a right to the information.
MR. GUPTA: Well, he's -- all he's asking
for is information that's available in the public
archives on equal terms with Virginians. In the same
way that -- that someone who -
JUSTICE BREYER: He -- he has a very
reasonable request in my view, but the question isn't
the reasonableness of his request. The question's -
you know, whether they can do it. And the -- the way -
the work -- the thing that's bothering me on the work
part is this: It seems that the work is sort of
tailored to the statute.
It's in this way. I -- I have a job, and my
job is to study election processes. And I write
reports, and I find amazing things about differences
among States. They're truly amazing. And I say
-- you know, it would help me a
lot if I was actually a voter in each of these States.
That would help my job. It would lend authenticity, and
I could learn things that I probably couldn't learn
otherwise.
Now, does that add anything to the argument?
I mean, I don't think so, but it sounds a little bit
like you're making that kind of argument -
MR. GUPTA: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and -- and they either
do have the right or they don't. And I don't know that
it helps that I -- that I say, well, I really want it
for my work.
MR. GUPTA: Right. But this is -- this is a
profession that has existed since the founding era. I
mean, we've -- you know, we've cited cases in our
opening brief of -- of people hiring professionals to
search the records for them before engaging in property
transactions. By the late 19th Century, you had an
enormous industry that was designed to do this.
So this isn't -- Mr. Hurlbert isn't someone
who's making up some profession. He's part of a very
large industry that has done this for a very long time.
And that industry, yes, like lawyers depend on
courthouses or truckers depend on roads, his industry depends
on access to the public archives.
And -- you know, it's true that -- that now
you have these modern public records laws, but I -- I
think Virginia's argument would be the same if you were
just talking about can -- can they bar the doors to the
archives building? Can they bar the doors to the
property records? So there's no -- I don't see any
distinction in kind -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is this -- is this
your Privileges and Immunities argument or your dormant
Commerce Clause argument?
MR. GUPTA: You know, I think the logic of
both arguments are similar, but I think it, most
clearly, is illustrated in the Privileges and Immunities
context where -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So then it's not
enough that this is a big deal to your client. It has
to be something that is essential to hold the country
together as a national unit. And it seems, to me, it's
a bit of a stretch to say somebody gathering records
about commercial -- under FOIA fits that description.
MR. GUPTA: I don't think it's a stretch at
all, Justice -- Chief Justice. The -- the aggregators
of records make possible mortgage origination, credit
reporting, insurance adjustment. The -- the economy -- and
you have an amicus brief -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but, see,
they're just to get into those. Again, I think a lot of
those examples you -- you do have access under other
statutes. You're talking about mortgage rules and all
that. Aren't those all -
MR. GUPTA: No, no. Not to this kind of
information. The -- the information that Mr. Hurlbert
is gathering, tax assessment information, is essential
to -- to mortgage origination and credit reporting. The
people who hire him are large data companies, and the -
the data industry brief explains the uses of this
information.
That -- that information is essential to
these activities. And Virginia, virtually alone among
the States, is -- is erecting this barrier to access
that market and reserving the right to access that
market to only people who live in the State.
And -- and -- you know, this would be no
different if it were just talking about the archives
that -- that include all the information that the -
yes, it's true that Virginia has exempted of the title
itself, but I don't see that the logic of their position
allows them to make that distinction. I mean, that's
just a feature of their -- of their statute.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I -- I'm still trying to
tease out what your claim is. Let's suppose Virginia
passes a statute that says, We'll let nonresidents have
access, but they have to pay all the costs.
Nonresidents don't.
Would that satisfy you as valid?
MR. GUPTA: I think that would be a closer
question, but I think that presents some problems as
well. I mean, so, in your hypothetical, it's free to
the citizens of the State, but they're just passing the
cost on to out-of-Staters.
And -- you know, this -- this Court, in
cases like Toomer and Mullaney, have said that at
least -- you know, where the State can show that the
nonresidents pose some unique evil, that the -- the
State is entitled to pass the costs on.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why isn't it just -- you
just being costs them more?
MR. GUPTA: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That was Justice
Ginsburg's point, which is every time you've put in a
request, you're costing them more money.
MR. GUPTA: Right. But -- but that would be
discriminating against non as -- noncitizens solely
because they're noncitizens. So, if there's some particular
-
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, why? You were
costing them more.
MR. GUPTA: Right. Well, that's -- that's
precisely the rationale that -- that in
Justice Kennedy's opinion for the Court in Barnard v.
Thorstenn, this Court rejected. This -- the Virgin
Islands wanted to say if we open up our bar to people
from all over the country, it's going to increase the
administrative resources. And this Court said, no,
that's not a good enough reason. That's just
discriminating on the basis of citizenship.
But if, for example, the State could show
that there was -- you know, there were shipping costs
that were uniquely posed by nonresidents and they wanted
to assess a $5 shipping fee for all nonresidents, that
might be permissible.
And, if there are no further questions, I'd
like to reserve my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General Getchell?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EARLE DUNCAN GETCHELL, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. GETCHELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court: The -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure how you
save administrative costs under this statute. They
could go to any Virginia resident, it's not illegal, and
probably will, it'll cost them something more, but not
you, and get the very same information.
So how do you justify this discrimination?
Because it's so easily -- the administrative cost is
going to be imposed anyway.
MR. GETCHELL: I would -- would suggest that
the purpose of the statute, which is political, not
commercial, left the State with the position that it was
going to subsidize with tax dollars this function
because we can't recover our overhead; we can over -
only recover the actual cost.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you want to give more
businesses to Virginia citizens who will now charge
out-of-State residents money to process their FOIA
requests?
MR. GETCHELL: No, Your Honor. I don't
think anybody was thinking about businesses of any sort.
I think they were saying that we have a political
hygiene statute. They were very much the fad. It
happened in -- in my lifetime, too. I remember when
they were adopted. Nobody thought they were commercial in
nature.
And I do want to -- want to repel the notion
that there is even substantial discrimination in this
case because Mr. Hurlbert, in his admission that this is
an as-applied challenge, has a difficulty with
substantial equality of access, because it turns out
that Mr. Hurlbert, in his reply brief, when he teed up
the 1786 statute, which does give access -- did give
access, he focused his argument on that statute.
And if you run that statute, you will find
that between 1830 -- 1813 and 1840, that you did not
have general access. They went back to having to show a
particular interest. But that -- from 1840, '41 until
today, through the codes of 1819 and -- and up until the
present code, Section 17.1208, he has the right of
access to tax assessment records.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the -- if I
understood your answer to Justice Sotomayor, the only
reason you don't let out-of-Staters get these records is
because of the added overhead costs?
MR. GETCHELL: No, Your Honor. It's just
not part of the interests the State was trying to serve.
The State -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know.
But -- but -- so why don't you do it anyways? Just -- just
as I asked your friend, it doesn't seem like that
big a deal. It doesn't seem like that big a deal for
you either. If you can recoup overhead costs from
people who request -- and I'd assume you would be able
to -- why don't other people -- people from West
Virginia may have interest in how Virginia government
operates, too.
And -- and, again, if -- what cost is there to
you, other than overhead? You don't want to keep how
Virginia government operates quiet from outsiders when
you let in -- its citizens get the access, do you?
MR. GETCHELL: The -- we are here to defend
the decisions of the two lower courts that apply
existing doctrine. And, under existing doctrine, only
if we discover that this is a fundamental right, do I
have to justify -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's under
the Privileges -- the Privileges and Immunities
argument.
MR. GETCHELL: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. But what
about the Dormant Commerce Clause?
MR. GETCHELL: Under the Dormant Commerce
Clause, we would first have to have a regulation of
commerce that's discriminatory. And I would say that a -
that this is a governmental function. I would say
that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I know -- I
understand your argument. I'm just asking you why
bother? I mean, what -- what's the -- and that's
certainly pertinent to some of the Commerce Clause
analysis. And I haven't heard anything, other than the
overhead costs. And I think you can recoup that from
the requesters.
MR. GETCHELL: I cannot, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why not?
MR. GETCHELL: Mr. Chief Justice, the
statute says I cannot recoup the cost of maintaining and
generating the database, which is, by definition,
overhead. I cannot -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you've got to
maintain and generate the database, anyway, for Virginia
citizens who are going to ask for it. This is not an
added cost. It's an added cost if you
have to hire an additional person to handle -- as far as
I can tell, just these two people.
MR. GETCHELL: It's an added burden, too.
It's not all -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the Virginia citizens
pay for that database, right? MR. GETCHELL: They
do. This is a
taxpayer -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the out-of-Staters
don't pay for the database.
MR. GETCHELL: This is a taxpayer-subsidized
system.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And, besides, do -- do
you -- is it the law that -- that the State of Virginia
cannot do anything that's pointless?
Only -- only the Federal Government can do
stuff that's pointless?
(Laughter.)
MR. GETCHELL: The -- there is a
burden -- there is a non-financial burden as well
because, as one who is subject to FOIA requests, we have
a finite number of officials and employees who have to
address these things. And that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You keep making that
argument. But you don't stop residents for asking for
the information from someone else. I mean, that's one
of the points of your law, which is they can hire a
Virginia resident to get it for them. Most of the big
people are doing that already.
So you're not saving any money if they can
get the information simply by paying someone in Virginia to
get it for them.
MR. GETCHELL: In -- in fact, the State of
Virginia has made the policy decision to give this
information to its citizens and not to inquire behind it
to see whether or not somebody's doing it for an
out-of-Stater. And not -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or even for commercial
purposes. Don't you think if -- if those who created
these government in the sunshine laws could have drafted
them in such a way that inquiries for commercial
purposes would not be allowed, but only those inquiries
that are intended to look into the workings of State
government and produce government in the sunshine, don't
you think that they probably would have excluded
commercial inquiries, if they could?
But you can't tell which ones are commercial
and which aren't.
MR. GETCHELL: And we don't -- and we don't
try. We have a policy decision that we want to have a
very simple system that allows our citizens to make
inquiries without a demonstrated need or cause because
we want there to be sunshine.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's no more
complicated a system if you let out-of-Staters have
access, too. You say we want a simple system. It's going to
be the same system, whether you win or lose.
MR. GETCHELL: The thing that is of -- of
great concern -- why do we care, why do we bother -- is
the principle that when a government is providing a
taxpayer-subsidized service of recent origin to its
citizens, that it does not have to explain its choice,
either under the Privileges and Immunities Clause or
under the Dormant Commerce Clause.
It is very important that we not find
ourselves with lawsuits that say, "services." Voluntary
services are, in fact, things that, now, have to be
justified under those two provisions of the
Constitution.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that -- that's where
he comes in with his argument because I -- I agree, you
can -- you don't have -- let's say the most fabulous
reason for doing this, but you have a reason.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: And so the question is,
does it have to be better than that? And -- and they
are saying yes. And, as I heard it, this -- what I
would characterize as a strong argument -- this sort of,
first of all, strikes me as a stronger argument, is
that, look, if we go back into history, out-of-State
real estate people could always get information about
property -- let's say they had a client who wanted to
buy it.
Now, you've protected that. But, in today's
world, it's important that we get statistics about this,
too, because our economy is national. If we understand
how States are taxing their real estate, we will know to
what extent they increase the value, to what extent they
increase the rate, to what extent they really get the
money they are supposed to, to what extent they might
get money or not get money in the future.
And all of those things are nationally
important, so that people can put them together and
make -- better than we have done in the past -
predictions about what is likely to happen to States
and, hence, the national economy. All right.
That's -- that's the kind of argument he's
making. And he says, so, therefore, there is a national
interest in the flow of this information. And that
means you have to have a better than "uh-huh" kind of
rationale. That's -- that's what he's saying, I think.
MR. GETCHELL: But it's very difficult for
Mr. Hurlbert to make that fairly expansive argument
because it turns out -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, to be fair, I -- I
was sort of expanding it. (Laughter.)
MR. GETCHELL: But, in point of fact,
because he is entitled to the tax assessment data in the
clerk's office, in the case of Henrico County, where he
went, you go in the same building and -- if you're
Mr. Hurlbert, you turn in one direction, you go to the
clerk's office.
And, if somebody in Virginia and wants to -
for whatever reason, get it from the tax assessor's
book, instead of from the clerk's book, you turn in the
other direction.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you don't deny that, in
general, this does affect out-of-State data collectors,
people who are engaged in the kind of business that
Justice Breyer was talking about, is that right?
MR. GETCHELL: I have no idea in this record
because we were on summary judgment -- cross motions for
summary judgment, and the district court and the court of
appeals, both in our judgment, correctly ruled that
there's a two -- two-step inquiry.
And the first step is whether or not
there is a fundamental right. And in the absence
of a -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's only in his
Privileges and Immunities Clause claim. MR.
GETCHELL: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He claims that the
dormant Commerce Clause has been effected because he
reads this statute as saying only Virginia recording
companies have access; out-of-State can't. And it's a
fair reading of the statute. It only permits Virginia
residents, which include commercial and noncommercial,
to access the information.
So assume, hypothetically, that the statute
reads "only Virginia commercial businesses have access
to this information" -
MR. GETCHELL: If -- if, in fact, you want
to rewrite the statute to -- subject to -- it to attack,
obviously, that would then raise questions about a
nongovernmental protectionist intent, but that's not the
way this statute was written. It's not how it was
crafted. It -- it has nothing to do with commerce.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that's the
question I'm -- I'm raising the best argument for your
adversary, okay?
MR. GETCHELL: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because we could call it
a direct -- he calls it direct discrimination because
commercial businesses are being permitted in Virginia,
but not noncommercial. You say it's indirect. How do we
draw the line between direct and indirect, when the
bottom-line consequence is the same?
MR. GETCHELL: I would -- I would have about
three answers to that. The first -- the first one is
that we don't trigger the dormant Commerce Clause
analysis, unless we are exercising the police power of a
State to regulate commerce. And that means -- it does
mean that not every statute a State passes triggers an
inquiry, even if it has an indirect effect on commerce.
Whereas, here, we have a statute that has a
solely political intent, the fact that -- that now that
the amici want to tell us about this great burgeoning
enterprise, they -- they want the Court to take that
into account.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you -- are you telling
us that there is simply no commercial consequences to
this statute at all, that Virginians find this to be of
no commercial value, in any instance?
MR. GETCHELL: I am totally agnostic on this
record because we don't have any data on that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you were the one
with summary judgment. Now, maybe -- maybe they didn't
come forward with the information, but we interpret
summary judgment in favor of -- of the losing party.
And you're -- so you say you are totally
agnostic. I am concerned that you are preventing them,
by the summary judgment, from showing that there -- even
with Virginians, there is a commercial value frequently
to this information.
MR. GETCHELL: All right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's not just political.
MR. GETCHELL: On this -- on this record -
on this record, the position that was accepted by the
two courts below, entirely in accordance with this
Court's existing doctrine, was the first inquiry under
Privileges and Immunities, was whether there was a
fundamental right. If there -- if there is not, then we
make no further inquiry.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let's talk about -- let's
talk about the Commerce Clause. You are saying you are
agnostic. You have no idea whether or not there might
be some commercial value to this information. I would
think, as an officer of the State of Virginia or as a
matter of judicial notice, we could -- we could take
notice that there is.
MR. GETCHELL: I'm saying that, under this
record, that never came up, nor should it have come up,
because what the court said on dormant Commerce Clause,
both of the courts below, was this is not a regulation
of commerce, it is a governmental action --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it has -- it has -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are saying that it's no
more necessary for you to show that there's no
commercial value to allowing out-of-Staters to do this
than it is necessary for you to show that there is no
commercial value to your not allowing out-of-Staters to
hunt deer in Virginia.
MR. GETCHELL: I believe -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You say that it's up
to Virginia -
MR. GETCHELL: Correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- whether -- whether
out-of-Staters can hunt for Virginia game.
MR. GETCHELL: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it's up to Virginia
whether out-of-Staters can have access to the State's
records, that they have no interest in, personally,
under -- under this law. It seems, to me, perfectly
logical.
MR. GETCHELL: But, remember, they do -
they do have access to this information, both Hurlbert
and McBurney.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Of course, that assumes
the question as to whether or not there is a general
commercial interest in these -- in these -- in these
documents. And you say, oh, you are agnostic. At least
that means you are open to the possibility that there
might be a commercial interest.
(Laughter.)
MR. GETCHELL: Well, here's the problem in
this case is because I think that we are not at
first-tier analysis, because there is no regulation of
commerce that is discriminatory -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't understand -- if
that's your argument on it, I reject it as Justice
Kennedy does. I -- I didn't understand you to be
arguing that there is no commercial value.
MR. GETCHELL: I'm trying to explain why it
doesn't matter.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, that's what I thought.
(Laughter.)
MR. GETCHELL: It doesn't -- it doesn't
matter because if -- if, on the threshold inquiry, we
don't have a discriminatory regulation of commerce, but
just an ordinary governmental function, then only
Pike-Church analysis could possibly -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you can't say
discriminatory regulation. What about a tax? I mean,
you can't tax discriminatorily, and I wouldn't call
taxation, in and of itself, a regulation of commerce, would
you?
MR. GETCHELL: The -- the fact of the matter
is that it has been -- taxes have been found to be both
violations of privileges and immunities and dormant
Commerce Clause, where there were -- there was unequal
taxation of commerce.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, even though it's -
even though it's not a regulation of commerce?
MR. GETCHELL: Okay. Well, I -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. I mean, I guess
that's your argument, then.
MR. GETCHELL: I apologize I chose a word
that is not as apt as it should have been, but a
regulation or taxation centering around commerce
intended to affect and actually affecting commerce, it
just -- this just isn't that kind of activity.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, General, can I-- just
indulge me with a hypothetical. Suppose that the background
for these statutes was different. The statutes were the
same, but, in addition to talking about people's right
to know about how their government works, the people
spend a lot of time also talking about the economic
benefits of a free flow of information in our country.
Would that -- if that were true -- and I
want to put myself on record as not remembering when these
statutes were passed -- you know.
(Laughter. )
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, if that were true,
would this case be different? Or would you still be up
here saying the same thing?
MR. GETCHELL: If -- if I had -- if I had a
statute which, on its face, dealt with -- with
commerce -
JUSTICE KAGAN: The statute does exactly the
same thing. I'm just suggesting that there might be two
interests behind the statute. One is about knowing the
way your government operates, and the other is about
free flows of information in our economy.
And, if both of those things had gone into
the mix to create statutes of this kind, would you
be up here saying the same thing or not?
MR. GETCHELL: I would be saying something
at least slightly different, if I had different facts
that I had to deal with, but I think, in principle, I
would be arguing the power of the State to pass this
kind of act without having to submit to the dormant
Commerce Clause, at least first-tier dormant Commerce
Clause analysis.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What else -- what else
can Virginia do besides -- I don't know if there are elks in
Virginia, but besides -- to reserve for its
own -- for its own people? You say, this is -- good
government in Virginia is for Virginians. Big game
hunting, scarce resource can be reserved for in-State
people.
What else can Virginia do?
MR. GETCHELL: Well, Virginia can -- can do
things including have in-State tuition. It can have -
it can subsidize its own businesses, either by training
programs or even by other direct subsidy from public
FISK. It limits welfare payments to residents of the
Commonwealth.
When the Commonwealth is just acting as a
government and not as a regulator or taxer of interstate
commerce, it has the status of a coequal sovereign that,
in its own sphere, is allowed to do its own policy
choices.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I think the thing, General,
that I was trying to get at, it seems to me you have a
very good case that these statutes were -- were meant
for a different purpose. But, in fact, it seems as
though your friends there have a good case that these
statutes have been taken over, to a large extent, across
the country by economic enterprises doing economic
things. And, at that point in time, Virginia's -
and -- you know, you are only one of two States -
Virginia's maintenance of this kind of -- no, it's
Virginians -- you know, Virginia information for
Virginians, looks very different from what it might have
looked like when the statute was originally passed.
MR. GETCHELL: If -- if we were going to
say, if you were going to say that -- that this is an
inquiry that needs to be made under the Commerce Clause,
this would be a particularly poor vehicle for doing it
because the Fourth Circuit held that the Pike analysis
of the district court was not appealed, and, therefore,
this case could not be sent back on remand to develop a
burden analysis of a record -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But Pike is not relevant
here. Pike involves -- the Southern Pacific v. Arizona
the -- where there were -- where there were melons -
where there were melons, and Arizona wanted to make sure
that you had labels and packing of the melons in
Arizona. That was -- that was discriminatory against -
against interstate -- against interstate commerce.
That's not -- that's not dormant Commerce
Clause, but that is discrimination, and there is
discrimination here.
MR. GETCHELL: Well, there's -- there's
discrimination, only in the sense that we discriminate
against people who we don't let vote because they don't
live in the Commonwealth as well. I mean, we -- this
statute has a function. It's a legitimate function
and -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You -- you could say the
same thing, we don't discriminate against Californians
who want to come and pack their melons in Arizona.
MR. GETCHELL: Well, I would say that -
that whether or not somebody can deal with an item in
commerce is -- is -- raises Commerce Clause questions.
And just, like in Reno v. Condon, where the State of
South Carolina was choosing to take its records and sell
them into the stream of commerce, there, the Court held
that -- that they thereby became a thing in commerce.
The records of the tax assessor of the
County of Henrico, which are available through the
clerk's office to Mr. Hurlbert, are not things or
persons in commerce, nor are they -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It -- it would surprise me
if an out-of-State investor, who was thinking of putting
a large plant in Virginia, had absolutely no interest in
Virginia's tax policies.
MR. GETCHELL: But they are available. They
are publicly available. They are not just not available
through this adjunct service. All -- all FOIA is, is a
device where you don't have to go and look. There has
always been public access for these -- these records.
JUSTICE BREYER: So -- so suppose -- I mean,
I think they have an argument, saying, of course, this
information would be useful for gathering national
statistics and helping the national economy. I think
that's true.
On the other hand, you say, well, but, look,
there must be something left that the States can reserve
to their own citizens, there must be something. They
can't protect their own commerce; that's clear. They
can't discriminate against people who want to come here
and live here. That's clear.
They can't do this and that and the other
thing, but, gee, there must be something. I mean, can't
they reserve at least their -- their beaches for their
own citizens? No. Parking near their beaches? Well,
maybe. And -- and maybe deer. And, if not this, what?
That's the end. Okay?
So that's, basically, what you are saying.
This is just an interest in trying to find out how State
institutions work, and the voters have the main interest
there, and this is other -- so you say the other one is
attenuated, but not non-existent. He says the other is
important, though he recognizes States should be able to
do something.
So if you were me, how would you decide?
How would you choose?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the standard,
because you know the -- the Privileges and Immunities
Clause is -- is considerably opaque, and there are very
few cases on it. And so what -- how would you tell me
to -- to resolve that -- that tension because there is a
tension.
MR. GETCHELL: I -- I think there that -
that the important policy issue in this case for us is
precisely as you articulated. There -- there is
residual sovereign power in the State to act, and we
have to violate the Constitution, clearly, before we
lose that authority.
And, under existing privileges and
immunities doctrine, the privileges and immunities
are -- are few; they are -- they have been enumerated in
the courts, they are similar in character, having to do
with commerce, not governmental action. So I would say
you would not extend privileges and immunities.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We are talking about
State-owned documents, aren't we? MR. GETCHELL:
Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There is not much that's as
close to the sovereignty of the State as the possession
and right to exclude people from its own records and its
own documents, right?
MR. GETCHELL: I agree, Your -
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So the -- the issue is can
the State allow its own citizens, for purposes of seeing
that the government is -- is being run on the up-and-up,
have access to those documents, without letting the
whole world?
MR. GETCHELL: Yes, Your Honor, that is our
position.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why doesn't the
dormant Commerce Clause affect the hypothetical I laid
out? Because, directly, this permits Virginia
commercial businesses to get something that
out-of-Staters can't. The State is putting this
instrument into commerce. You say, I don't know that.
But make the assumption that we think the record's clear
enough on that point.
I know you want to fight me on that, but
it's hard -- it's a fight with no legs because you have
to know that commercial enterprises in Virginia seek these
records.
MR. GETCHELL: I am -- I am arguing that, of
course, I think we say in our brief that -- that they
can be put into commerce. They are put into commerce,
but we don't put them into commerce. And we have -- in
the architecture of our bill -- our act has nothing to
do with commerce.
And if a State can't deal with -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell us, under our
jurisprudence -- the dormant Common Commerce
jurisprudence -- and I have some colleagues who don't -- who
don't believe it should exist. Take that argument out.
Why is this not a dormant Commerce Clause case?
MR. GETCHELL: Because it is not an exercise
of the State police power to regulate commerce. The
documents in the -- in the tax assessor's office of the
County of Henrico are not things or persons in commerce,
nor are they channels or instrumentalities of commerce.
They are just the records of the sovereign, which we
will allow our citizens to obtain.
Unless the Court has further questions, I
think this argument has been developed from our
standpoint.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Gupta, you have three minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DEEPAK GUPTA
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. GUPTA: Thank you. Just a few quick
points: First, I just want to clear up, on the statute,
I want to make it clear that this statute does allow the
State to fully recoup its costs, including
administrative costs, and the State hasn't said
otherwise.
And, secondly, the suggestion has been
made -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. The -- I -- I
think what he's saying is you don't have to pay the
costs of developing and maintaining those records, which
costs are paid by the citizens of Virginia, which gives
them an additional interest in being able to get to
those documents.
You -- you don't claim that -- that you pay
for the development and the maintenance of those
records. You just pay for the incremental costs of
giving it to you, right?
MR. GUPTA: That -- that's right,
Justice Scalia -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And Virginians pay for all
the rest?
MR. GUPTA: That -- that's right, Justice Scalia,
and that's true of other things, like roads and
courthouses. And I think this gets to -- Justice Breyer
asked for our test, to try to differentiate this from
other services, and I'd like to try to provide one.
I think, at least where you've got a
function that is reserved to the State -- only the State
can do it, only the State can run the archives -- it's
necessary as a channel to -- to commerce. And in the -
in the modern economy, this is as much part of the
information infrastructure as transportation is, like
courthouses, like archives, like roads.
It would not stretch limited resources. It
would not cost the State additional money, and it would
not jeopardize important local traditions or
institutions -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you leaving out -
MR. GUPTA: -- that I think you can feel
comfortable -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you leaving it -
you -- you switched now to-- and you were led there, but
you switched to the dormant Commerce Clause. What about
your other client, McBurney? He doesn't have any
dormant Commerce Clause claim.
MR. GUPTA: Right. And I -- I think the
test that I just laid out would work for both clauses. It's a
limiting principle on the justification side.
But -- but that's right, Mr. McBurney does not have a
dormant Commerce Clause claim. His claim is based on
equal access to proceedings.
He wanted to get recovery of child support
that he was owed. So he is a creditor seeking to pursue
a debt on equal terms with people in the State of
Virginia, and the State set up a process. As one step
along the way to court, you go to the agency, you ask
the agency to enforce. The -- the agency has unique
enforcement tools.
It can suspend someone's driver's license,
for example. It can -- it can intercept income tax
refunds, and it can go to court on your behalf. And all
he's asking for is the rules of the game. He wants to
know what procedures apply to that process. And at
least where a -- an agency has a process that directly
affects a non-stater in the pocketbook, all we are
saying is that equal access to the proceedings means
equal access to the information governing those
proceedings.
And, finally, I would just like to close by
saying that -- you know, what I don't think we heard on
the justification side from the State was really any
justification because the State can recoup its costs. And so
anything more, which was the only justification they
pressed in -- in the courts below.
And so they are left with the position that
they can discriminate simply because they think they
can. And, if you look at the Privileges and Immunities
Clause, it sits right next to the Full Faith and Credit
Clause, which indicates, if anything, that the framers
thought that the movement of public records across State
lines was important to interstate comity.
They changed the Articles of Confederation
version, which did not include public records; it only
referred to judicial records. They added a mention of
judicial records -- nonjudicial records and saw that
that was important to -- to comity across State lines.
But -- but their position is about the step
before that. It's about whether you get the records in
the first place.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:16 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
32:5 50:2 44:16 51:17 24:14 26:2,7 27:21 authenticity 25:4 bottom-line 40:3
agencies 8:13 54:8,12 authority 50:18 Breyer 17:6,9,16
55:11,11,18 45:21 52:3 24:13 48:18,25 19:18,21,24 20:5
8:18 12:10
16:1 21:8
27:5,17,18
31:7,9,10,13
53:6 52:13,23 53:2 Barnard 29:7 broadly 18:3
32:12 36:1
42:17,22
15:20 26:14 based 4:11 5:21 7:3 bucks 6:17
51:12 55:5,20
35:21 Articles 56:11 basically 17:10 18:9 34:15 47:14
33:8 40:7 aspect 16:22 bears 14:6 13:11 23:15,22
45:24 assess 29:17 behalf 1:18,21 2:4,7 38:14
assessment 5:6 2:10 3:7 29:24 businesses 3:15
56:13
54:14
assumption 51:22 big 9:8 10:4 26:18 calling 22:19,21
29:11 30:3,8
16:4 citizens 8:10 9:4,12 40:24 41:23 48:9 6:21 12:5 21:8 52:18
17:7,14 22:11 28:11 30:17 49:14 27:12 39:6 couple 13:5
18:15 32:12 33:19,25 comes 36:16 company 7:2 course 42:24 49:6
38:4 43:7 35:5,21 36:7 49:12 comfortable 54:19 compared 12:7 52:4
46:21,23 49:19 51:10 52:21 comity 56:10,15 completely 7:13,18 court 1:1,15 3:9
50:14 52:14 53:15 commerce 10:7,23 11:24 23:9 10:21 15:7 18:4
citizenship 29:13 11:11,13,15 13:2 complicated 35:25 28:13 29:7,8,11
28:14 50:10 53:18 54:24 55:4,4 15:15,18,21 16:1,8 concerned 8:11 15:1 40:14 41:24 47:12
31:6 41:16,24 44:6 47:9,21,22 48:12 considerably 50:9 41:11
clear 4:8 13:22 commercial 3:14 context 26:16 56:7
12:17,25 48:19 39:8,11,25 40:17 correctly 4:21 38:19 cutting 23:9
15:4 client 5:2,15 26:18 40:19 41:4,18 42:5 cost 6:15,17 21:12
27:3 37:2 54:23 42:7 43:1,4,13 28:12 30:5,8,15 D
31:18,25 clients 5:4,6 51:19 52:1 32:9 33:14,20,20 D 3:1
33:4,12 client's 11:23 commercially 10:17 54:14 56:1 data 5:18 6:20 7:2,6
35:24 close 51:4 55:23 COMMISSION... costing 28:23 29:4 11:8 12:4 21:8
56:20 closer 28:8 1:7 costs 21:9 28:5,17 22:21 27:12,13
discriminate 48:2,8 drafted 35:10 enterprise 40:14 expanding 38:1
discriminates 19:9 driver's 55:13 52:1 expenses 21:5,19
53:2 10:11,23 14:24 E enumerated 50:21 explains 11:5 27:13
21:1 38:12 16:17 33:1 43:9,20 37:16 45:14 49:8 estate 5:6 37:1,7 F
20:2 27:21 52:17 53:17 enable 8:5,6 exclusively 13:7 far 33:21
45:5,19,19 doing 7:13 9:13 enact 3:20 excuse 10:16 53:12 favor 18:12 40:25
47:5 23:12 34:24 35:6 enacted 3:18 4:2 8:4 exempted 17:23 feature 28:1
32:24 36:9 39:4 enforces 3:13 exist 4:15 52:13 finally 55:23
40:18 49:23 22:8 32:16 38:22 28:22 22:1,13,18,25 23:2 48:19
12:11 13:6 13:24 gives 24:9 53:15 27:8 28:8,20,24 hygiene 30:23
32:25 36:24 further 6:25 29:19 giving 53:21 29:5 53:1,2,4,22 hypothetical 28:10
40:5,5 41:11 41:14 52:22 go 6:18 7:5 30:4 54:1,18,25 44:19 51:17
56:18 furthered 21:3 36:25 38:5,6 49:3 hypothetically
goes 13:14 16:13 hand 49:10
21:11 23:23 general 1:20 29:22 governing 55:21 held 16:6 47:11 immunity 22:17,18
30:18 34:16 31:13 38:13 42:25 government 8:4,6,8 48:15 impact 7:9 9:9 13:15
44:18 46:19 52:25 8:12 9:5,13 11:4 help 12:18 25:2,4 14:12,16,16,17,20
Getchell 1:20 2:6 44:22 45:13 46:4 Henrico 38:4 48:18 important 36:10
42:9,12,15,21 43:6 Gupta 1:18 2:3,9 3:5 honest 19:7 include 27:22 39:8
48:5,5 54:7 9:11 21:9,18 23:12 16:15,19 17:1,8,13 hunting 46:5 indicates 56:8
54:20 19:3,8,17,19,23 25:22 27:9 31:5,8 indisputably 16:8
26:1 interstate 14:7,12 48:21 learn 12:21 25:5,5 main 49:24
15:5,15,21 16:8,8 Kennedy's 29:7 leaving 54:17,20 Maine 18:1
8:5 18:20 56:10 25:9 26:9 27:8 left 30:12 49:11 56:4 maintaining 33:14
20:6 invalidity 14:23 37:17,20 38:14 legislative 10:10 53:14
23:17 investor 48:22 44:17 45:16,22 legislature 18:11 maintenance 47:3
27:9,9 involves 20:10 47:3 legitimate 48:5 53:19
47:16 know 3:18 5:17 6:9 legs 51:25 majority 3:14 10:25
34:21 35:1,5 in-State 17:24 46:5 6:17,21,23 9:13 lend 25:4 11:1 12:2
39:9,12 46:9 10:6 12:6 14:2 letter 6:13,18 making 25:9,23
41:5,18 in-Stater 23:19 15:6 16:5,21 17:3 letting 51:12 34:19 37:18
44:24 45:14 Islands 29:9 17:13,23 18:1,4,16 let's 28:3 36:17 37:2 malfeasance 8:7
49:7 54:11 issue 50:14 51:9 19:22 20:24 22:4 41:15,15 MARK 1:3
item 48:11 24:1,19 25:2,12,17 license 55:13 market 7:13,14,20
J 1:3 44:22 45:2 46:1 limits 46:12 8:25 13:16 14:11
43:19 job 24:23,24 25:4 51:24 52:1 55:17 lines 56:10,15 23:23 41:20 43:15
JR 1:20 2:6 29:23 55:24 little 5:10 25:8 43:19 44:3 56:23
judicial 20:2,3 41:20 L 1:6 54:15 11:17,19 14:14
jurisprudence 52:11 laid 51:17 55:1 logical 42:20 18:16 22:13 23:25
56:1,2 48:23 12:10 40:9 43:24 44:11
34:13 36:19 38:1 36:25 49:3,10 56:6
44:18 45:4 meant 19:6 46:21
46:19 measures 20:20
17:5,22,22 23:8 lose 7:4 36:2 50:18
22:3,4 34:9,22 42:19 losing 40:25
melons 47:17,18,19
32:7 37:19 laws 3:10,18,23 4:9 loss 21:7,17
43:1,4 48:23 8:3,10,17,20,22 lost 21:6
mention 56:13
53:16 9:7 12:8 22:22 lot 25:3 27:4 44:23
40:16,22 mentioned 20:7
42:24 merely 24:10
31:23 45:12 lawsuits 36:11 miners 11:8
non-commerce 18:4 originally 47:6 pass 28:17 45:21 point 9:11 14:8
54:10 notice 41:20,21 outlanders 21:22,25 pay 6:12 28:5 34:1,5 points 34:22 53:5
37:10,11,11 number 34:17 out-of-State 3:15 payments 46:12 policy 3:13,16 7:7
7:23 8:1 9:16 11:1 peculiar 9:20 10:13 11:5,6,9
objective 18:10 38:13 39:6 48:22 16:7 18:6,19 20:18 political 9:15,17,19
49:7,8 okay 17:1,16,20 owns 12:14 performed 5:16 possibility 43:3
54:9 ones 5:19 8:3 35:17 pack 48:9 20:12 33:21 practice 11:12
28:25 29:1 29:7 participate 9:25 Pike 14:20 15:6,12 press 18:21
40:1 29:23 31:14 Pike-Church 43:22 pretty 18:14 19:9
12:16 47:10 plant 48:23 preventing 41:2
46:11 49:4 56:9,12 24:18 remaining 53:1 5:13 6:7,13,17
55:2 10:2,10 12:7,8 REBUTTAL 2:8 42:21 18:13,24 19:3,13
26:11,15 35:12 51:10 recipient 20:11 48:13 23:1,2,14,25 24:10
36:8 39:1 pursue 55:7 recognized 12:13 repeatedly 10:9 24:11 25:12,15
44:5 50:8,19 pursuing 22:19 23:9 recognizes 50:2 repel 31:3 27:18 28:20,24
56:6 put 16:24 18:15 record 38:16 40:21 reply 31:8 29:5 31:16 32:16
35:15 52:5,5,6 47:14 reports 24:25 38:22 39:22 41:6
16:3,14,21 17:11 12:14,15 14:3 7:22 10:18,25 11:1 8:18 12:10,16
55:9,17,18 36:20 39:20 42:25 20:3 21:14 22:22 requesting 18:20 risk 20:13
9:3,9 33:9,14 53:7 56:1 residents 3:11 17:24 33:17 35:24 52:25
17:4,22 recover 30:14,15 30:18 34:20 39:8 56:20
26:8 37:2 recovery 55:6 46:12 routine 5:18,20,24
resolve 50:11 rule 14:23 15:9 24:1
55:25
24:7 54:5 regulator 46:15 2:7 29:24 runs 13:9
29:12 31:20 rejected 29:8 S
38:9 S 2:1 3:1
13:8,25 14:4 relevance 14:8,11 richer 5:7
save 30:3
16:7 20:3 relevant 47:15 Richmond 1:21
24:13 26:2,4 relief 22:9 right 3:22 4:5,10,12
30:22 36:22 set 55:9 13:10,12 15:12 street 13:8 tailored 24:22
39:5 41:16 settlements 12:11 18:1,11,12 19:15 stretch 26:21,23 take 16:20 20:20
42:3 45:6,17 shipping 29:15,17 20:13,17,19 21:1,5 54:13 21:10 40:14 41:20
49:6,22 show 16:17 28:15 21:12,14 22:19 strikes 36:24 48:14 52:13
55:20,24 29:14 31:13 42:4,6 27:19 28:11,15,17 strong 36:23 taken 46:24
showing 41:3 29:14 30:12 31:23 stronger 36:24 talk 41:15,16
33:14 37:18 similar 26:14 50:22 40:8,9 41:19 45:21 stuff 34:12 13:24 14:20 15:5
simple 35:21 36:1 48:13 49:23 50:16 subject 34:16 39:14 20:6 26:6 27:6,21
7:24 8:15 22:10 35:1 40:17 53:7,8 54:7,7,8,14 submitted 56:21,23 50:25
9:12 13:14,19 56:5 55:8,9,25 56:1,9 subsidize 30:13 tax 5:6,12 14:3 17:5
18:22,24 sit 4:9 12:9 56:15 46:10 17:22 27:10 30:13
21:21 33:25 sits 56:7 States 1:1,15 3:10 subsidy 46:11 31:17 38:3,9 43:24
35:8 42:3 slightly 45:19 3:11 4:23 5:12 substantial 31:4,7 43:25 48:17,24
43:10 solely 28:25 40:12 7:10,15,17 12:12 subsumed 12:9 52:17 55:14
44:8,11 Solicitor 1:20 12:12 23:11 25:1,3 suggest 30:10 taxation 44:1,7,15
51:3,8,9 somebody 6:6 26:21 27:17 37:7,15 47:2 suggesting 45:11 taxer 46:15
54:1 38:8 48:11 49:11 50:2 suggestion 53:10 taxes 44:4
27:3,24 35:6 34:19 38:24 39:3 24:1,6,10,22 28:1 49:5 tension 50:11,12
sovereignty 51:4 44:20 45:2,16 swept 18:2 12:25
36:6 49:2 State 4:15 5:24 9:4 storehouse 5:7 things 11:18,20 14:4
25:5 34:18 transparent 22:6 unusual 19:9 Virginians 21:6,7,24 we've 25:17,17
37:12 45:15 transportation up-and-up 51:11 24:14 40:18 41:4 willing 20:12
47:1 48:19 54:11 use 18:21 46:4 47:4,5 53:24 win 36:2
54:2 treated 18:7 useful 49:7 Virginia's 3:16 4:19 word 44:13
13:4,22 triggers 40:9 uses 27:13 47:3 48:24 24:8,20,20,21
15:24 truckers 26:1 usually 20:10 virtually 27:16 25:14 49:24 55:1
17:2,10 18:9 true 4:18 5:4 26:3 Voluntary 36:11 working 8:7
25:8 26:5,13 27:23 44:25 45:4 V vote 9:16 20:19 48:3 workings 35:13
27:4 28:8 49:9 54:2 v 1:5 3:4 16:1,6,22 voter 25:3 works 44:22
30:21,22 33:9 truly 25:1 29:7 47:16 48:13 voters 49:24 world 37:5 51:13
37:21 try 11:20 35:20 54:4 valid 28:7 wouldn't 7:16 43:25
43:7 45:20 54:5 value 24:9 37:8 W write 6:12,18 16:24
49:6,8 50:13 trying 28:2 31:23 40:19 41:4,18 42:5 waiting 16:25 24:24
52:4,23 43:14 46:20 49:23 42:7 43:13 wall 9:25 written 39:17
54:3,6,18,25 tuition 46:9 vast 3:14 10:25 11:1 want 6:18 9:21 10:2 wrong 8:14
56:5 turn 38:6,10 12:2 12:18 17:17 21:22
48:22 two 17:9 20:7 22:15 version 56:12 25:13 30:16 31:3,3 x 1:2,10
43:16 56:9 47:2
typically 11:7
28:22 29:20 unanimous 16:2,6 6:9 7:3,13,14,18 38:8 55:16 1
47:1 unconstitutional 7:25 8:10,12,13,24 Washington 1:11,18 10:19 1:16 3:2
unit 26:20 41:19 42:8,11,14 went 31:13 38:5 1960s 4:7
12:8 21:7 unpack 11:20 52:1 53:15 55:9 we're 10:6 12:19 2
unreasonable 22:1 Virginian 5:22 8:24 20:5 20 1:12
1:12
2:7
2:4
11:5
31:14
3:10 7:10 23:10
3:10
2:10
3:24 4:1 9:7
4:1
