IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MUTUAL PHARMACEUTICAL :
COMPANY, INC., :
Petitioner : No. 12-142
v. :
KAREN L. BARTLETT :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 19, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:14 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JAY P. LEFKOWITZ, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf of
Petitioner.
ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Petitioner.
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JAY P. LEFKOWITZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioner 18
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JAY P. LEFKOWITZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:14 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 12-142, Mutual Pharmaceutical
Company v. Bartlett.
Mr. Lefkowitz.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAY P. LEFKOWITZ
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
This is a classic case of impossibility
preemption. Federal law required generic sulindac to
have the same ingredients, the same warning and the same
safety profile as the branded version. But a New
Hampshire jury imposed liability because sulindac didn't
have a different safety profile, meaning a different
ingredient or a different warning.
And as Mensing recognized, that's an
impossibility conflict. And there is no principle basis
for treating design defect claims any differently from
failure to warn claims.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Lefkowitz, could I
understand something just about the scope of your
argument? It -- it seems to me that in this case we are
not really dealing only with generics, we are also
dealing with brand-named drugs.
And I guess the -- the thought there would
be, in -- with -- with -- in this respect, as to design,
as compared to warnings, but as to design, they're
really all in the same boat. In other words -- you
know, they have a design, that it is only that design
that's approved. If they change their design there's no
authority to continue marketing it. They have to go
back to square one. And that's just as true of brand
names as it is of generics.
So am I right about that? That -- that if
we're just looking at a pure design defect claim,
putting the warning card aside, where you are in a
different position from the brand-name drugs, but as to
design, don't the brand-name and the generics go hand in
hand?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Justice Kagan, it's -- it's
certainly the position that the government takes in its
brief. I'm sure Plaintiff's lawyers would find
arguments to differ. But the important thing is that
it's really a distinction without a difference in real
life because in light of this Court's decision in the
Wyeth case, what happens across the board is that design
defect claims are brought either as they are in nearly
every State where there is a warning component, or -
JUSTICE KAGAN: I want you to put that aside
for me for just a second, and I understand that's a very
significant thing in your argument to put aside. But
let's just assume that there was a design defect claim
that didn't have to do with warnings, where you are in a
different position. Let's just assume on a pure design
defect claim, am I right that generics and brand-name
manufacturers are in the same position with respect to
those claims?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: If you are hypothecating -
hypothesizing a pure design defect regime, we're not -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Just about how you make the
drug?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Correct. That is certainly
the argument the government makes. I'm not sure whether
or not the Court would find any type of distinction as
the Court did in Wyeth, but that is certainly an
appropriate interpretation of what the government is
saying. But -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Not what the government, I
mean, I myself, I just can't figure out what distinction
there would be.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Your Honor -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So I'm asking you.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: As a legal matter, I'm not
sure reading the FDCA there is a matter. My point is
simply that in the real world, the cases are going to be
brought as failure to warn claims or as design defect
claims with warnings component.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, you -- but again, and I
know that this is a big part of your argument, but to
the extent that a warning was not involved in the claim,
and it was just about the design of a drug, I guess I'm
asking you, is there any possible way to distinguish
between generics and brand-name manufacturers?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: I'm not sure, Your Honor,
that there is a way to distinguish. If you were dealing
in a regime in a State statute or a State tort regime
where the only issue was design, unlike in the New
Hampshire design defect, where as we know from PA 18
where the First Circuit made clear that it, in fact, was
the lack of an adequate warning that in fact made the
drug more dangerous under the design defect case, the
Supreme Court's case Vautour, which is the leading New
Hampshire case. And in fact the jury instruction in
this case was a binary choice. It specifically said, if
you find that the drug is unreasonably dangerous, then
you have to take a look at was the warning sufficient or
not.
We have a case here that is directly
controlled by Mensing because the warning was critical
to the design defect case. We also have a case here
that even if it were just purely a design defect case,
at least with respect to a generic drug company, the
Federal sameness mandate, the same Federal sameness
mandate that applied in Mensing to warnings, applies in
design defect cases. And therefore it is a classic
impossibility case, just as the Court found in Mensing.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So tell me, is -- is it
now your position, and it seems to be, that any time the
FDA approves a product that there can never be a tort
liability claim because the FDA's approval is now the
ceiling of what you can do?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Absolutely not,
Justice Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They approve
nonprescription drugs. They approve a lot of things.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Absolutely. And
Justice Sotomayor, as this Court made clear in
Mensing -- in Wyeth and as Justice Thomas made clear in
his concurring opinion in that case, just because a drug
is granted an approval by the FDA does not mean that
it's entitled to have the same label for all time. The
distinction, though, that the Court articulated was that
in Wyeth a brand company has the authority, and indeed
as this Court found, the obligation to update its
warnings. A generic -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's not true with
respect to the active ingredients. An active ingredient
requires a new FDA approval process.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: But -- but we were talking
in that case about the warning.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But -- but we came back
to the same point, which is -- and we are sort of
dancing around the argument -- which is what happens
with a truly dangerous drug, and we can posit one, that
has nothing to do with a warning of whether it's
adequate or not, but a drug that on its face no
reasonable practitioner -- I'm going to the restatement
third formulation -- no reasonable practitioner, knowing
all the benefits and risks, would ever prescribe this
drug.
Because your adversary basically took that
position at trial.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It doesn't matter -
there were other, safer, one-molecule drugs, no one
should have prescribed this, no matter what the label.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Actually, Justice Sotomayor,
that is not the position my adversary took at trial. My
adversary specifically put on a case about the warnings
and said, the fact that SJS/TEN was warned about in the
adverse reaction section and cross-referenced within the
warning section was not sufficient. If it had been in
the warning section like the FDA later said it should
be, that would have made the difference.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We can argue. But let's
go to the point I raised, which is, I think what you are
arguing now is that no truly bad drug, that shouldn't be
on the market, would there ever be a tort claim that
anybody could bring -
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Absolutely not -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- because the FDA
approved it.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Absolutely not. That's not
our argument at all. Our argument, first of all, is a
very narrow argument -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what tort claim could
they bring?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Well, they could bring -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Both, again, the brand
could manufacture and the generic.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Right now if the
Plaintiff -- the Respondent here had taken the
brand-name drug Clinoril instead of the generic
sulindac, in the New Hampshire law, as it exists and as
it existed at the time of the lawsuit, she would have
had both a design defect claim and a failure to warn
claim.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How? The FDA approved
the design.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Because the design defect
claim -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And they couldn't change
it without FDA approval.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: But they could change the
warning, and that's the essential component, as the
First Circuit made clear. At PA 18 what the First
Circuit said was the label was relevant to the design
defect claim. The lack of a clearer warning made the
product itself more dangerous under the risk/benefit
tests prescribed by Bextra. That's the design defect
standard.
So had the Respondent taken the brand-name
drug, she would have had a cause of action, even under
the articulation of the sameness standard under
Hatch-Waxman that we are articulating here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One of our cases -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And she didn't take -
she didn't take the -- the brand-name drug because the
pharmacist gave her the generic, but she didn't know
brand, generic, isn't that correct?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: That's correct,
Justice Ginsburg, and that's exactly the same issue that
we had in the Mensing case a couple years ago.
Obviously we understand that not all consumers get to
select on their own; their doctors select or maybe their
State Medicaid laws make this choice, or the pharmacy,
but the standards -- again, conflict preemption comes
when the State is imposing a requirement or an
obligation or enforcing a standard that you simply can't
comply with under Federal law without violating Federal
law.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that New Hampshire
had a real strict liability regime, so that you -- you
sell a drug, and whether it's unreasonably dangerous or
not it causes an injury, you pay, to spread the costs.
Would there be a problem with that?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Justice Alito, I think if we
had what would really be an absolute liability scheme, I
think is really what you are suggesting, something
similar to the kind of vaccine compensation program that
we heard about this morning, that would not raise
impossibility preemption problems at all. It might or
might not raise obstacle issues; it would depend perhaps
on the scope of the program, whether it was singling out
certain types of drugs, how expensive it was; but that
would be a very different situation.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't there a First
Circuit -
JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Frederick argues that
that -- that's the thrust of the -- of the New Hampshire
law. Why is he wrong on that?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Well, he's wrong because --
Price v. Dick -- the New Hampshire Supreme Court case,
says very clearly, "We do not have an absolute liability
system. We do not make manufacturers insurers of their
product." And in fact, Mr. Frederick on page 21 of his
brief articulates the standards for liability in this
very case where he said, it has to be found unreasonably
dangerous.
And we know from Judge Boudin's statement
that I just read that that -- that condition of
unreasonable dangerousness is premised in large part on
the question of the warning. And it makes sense because
drugs are unavoidably dangerous. If you have -
JUSTICE ALITO: Can I just ask this one more
follow-up?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Sure.
JUDGE ALITO: Why -- why would -- why is a
generic manufacturer in a worse position under the
absolute liability scheme than it would be under the New
Hampshire scheme?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Well -
JUDGE ALITO: Because under the absolute
scheme they might say, if that's the cost, we are not
going to sell this drug at all? Is that the reason?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: No, it's -- it's not a
question of -- of policy choices, it's a question of
operation of law. The issue here -- States are free to
do lots of different things. They only are not free to
do things when they conflict directly with Federal
obligations. Basically, the Supremacy Clause sets up a
rule of priority.
And you have that rule of priority come into
play when you have a State requirement and you have a
Federal requirement. Here the vaccine program does not
hinge on a question of whether or not the generic
company violated a safety standard, whether the State is
saying, your drug is too dangerous either because of the
warning or because of the design.
It is simply saying, we are going to charge
manufacturers $1 dollar per prescription or -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. -- Mr. Lefkowitz,
then what you are saying is that the FDA's approval is
not only what everyone agrees it is, a floor to enable
you to market, but it is also a ceiling. That is you
meet the FDA objective -- FDA approval and that gives
you a right to market, not simply an access to the
market, but it -- it operates as a ceiling?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: With respect to the
question, Justice Ginsburg, as the Mensing Court made
clear, when this very issue came up with respect to
warnings which are commanded as a sameness requirement
by Federal law in exactly the same way as the molecule,
the design, the Federal regime does operate as a floor
and as a ceiling.
And when Federal law authorizes you to
market a drug in interstate commerce by granting you the
ANDA, that comes with it enormous protections. In fact,
Congress has established -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there something in
the -- in the Act that says that the States have no role
with respect to the safety and efficacy of the drug -
the drug, it's only the FDA approval, that's it?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: There is no express
preemption clause here. However, as we know from
Mensing where the Court articulated it in footnote 5 and
as we know from Geier where the Court went and said
ordinary conflict principles apply. In fact, even when
we have an express preemption clause and we have a
savings clause, that they don't apply, we have to use
ordinary operation of conflict -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Lefkowitz, I think
in describing the FDCA just now, you used the word
"authorizes," and typically, when we think about
impossibility, it's not enough that a State law
penalizes what Federal law authorizes.
What we -- something is impossible when a
State law penalizes what Federal law requires or
maybe -- or, where State law penalizes what Federal law
gives you a right to do. But it's not enough for
impossibility that State law penalizes what Federal law
permits.
And it seems as though what we have in the
FDCA is a statute that authorizes, that says, you can
sell this. But it doesn't say you must sell it, and it
doesn't give you a right to sell it.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Your Honor, Justice Kagan,
I'd like to give you two answers to that. The first as
to the impossibility, for over 50 -- 50 years exactly
now, this Court has been articulating as the
paradigmatic example of impossibility preemption.
The example from Florida Lime and Avocado
Growers where the Federal government said you can't sell
an avocado with less than 7 percent and you can't
sell -- and the State said you can't sell the avocado
with more than 8 percent oil. Now, clearly, there is no
Federal obligation to sell avocados.
I would submit that Congress is not agnostic
about the sale drugs, but the key is that the
quintessential example of impossibility has nothing to
do with a Federal right at all. It is simply
conflicting standards.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that is your best
case, but -- you know, there are quite a number of cases
where we've really held when a Federal law permits
something, typically, a State can do more if it wants
to.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Justice Kagan, the very same
issue came out in Mensing as well. After all, PLIVA was
not obligated in any way to sell metoclopramide in
Mensing. But, of course, this Court found that that was
a case of impossibility conflict. And moreover,
Congress has -- as I said, is not agnostic here.
Congress had established a regime where in
order to take a drug off the market, Congress had said
the FDA has to provide the company with all sorts of due
process protection, direct appeal to the Federal court,
and in fact, Congress, in 1997, specified that any
people at the FDA involved in the drug approval process
at all, withdrawing drugs or approving drugs, has to
have special technical, scientific expertise, very
different from what we have in lay jurors.
But simply stated, Your Honor, from a
impossibility perspective, this is not only the Florida
Lime example, this is the Mensing case as well.
Now -- you know, the -- the Respondent
doesn't really take issue with either the sameness
requirement of design or the sameness requirement of
warning. The Respondent recognizes that our hands are
tied.
The Respondent also doesn't really try to do
much with salvaging the First Circuit's dodge on
supremacy by saying we could stay out of the market.
Instead, what the Respondent does is he tries to carve
out a distinction between strict liability and
negligence claims.
And all I will say before reserving my time
is there's simply no basis in the law. This Court made
clear in Riegel and in Cipollone and in several other
cases that with respect to preemption, the same rules
apply, strict liability or negligence imposed
requirements by this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Yang?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY A. YANG,
FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. YANG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
New Hampshire law applies a hybrid
design-defect standard that imposes liability for harm
caused by a product if the product, in light of the
manufacturer's warnings, is unreasonably dangerous.
Now, that standard falls within the
traditional way that this Court has looked at
impossibility preemption in Mensing. It's also implicit
in Levine because the analysis of the courts -- the
analysis in Levine reflects an implicit judgment that
the manufacturer could simply stop selling the product.
You know, if that were enough to avoid a Federal
impossibility preemption, there'd be no reason to do
the analysis -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it's a
little different. Our cases are focused on the concern
that the State is going to impose on the manufacturer a
different duty than the Federal government.
That's not what's going on in a strict
liability regime. They're saying, we're not saying you
should have a different structure, we're not saying
anything about warning, we're saying if you do this,
you're going to have to pay for the damage. It's not -
it's not a different duty. And I think that's what's
underlying the argument that, well, you can just stop
selling because you don't have to adjust how you're
going to make the drug. You understand that it's going
to be the same as the Federal drug, but our system is,
you pay for the damage.
MR. YANG: There are two, I think, arguments
embedded within that. There is a question of whether
State tort law, whether by negligence or strict
liability, imposes a duty that might conflict with the
Federal obligation. And the second argument, I think,
which is distinct, is that if you could simply stop
selling, that would be a way of -- of cancelling
impossibility preemption if there were in fact a
conflict between the two standards.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: How would you define the
duty that New Hampshire imposed here according to the
First Circuit and according to the Respondent?
MR. YANG: The duty is that one cannot
market an unreasonably dangerous drug in light of the
warnings -- that's unreasonably dangerous in light of
the warnings. And what that means is that a
manufacturer will have to pay money in the liability
suit if he doesn't meet that standard.
And as this Court recognized in Riegel and
in earlier -- in Cipollone, that this type of tort
obligation, when you contingent -- make an obligation to
pay tort liability based on meeting a standard under
State law, that is a duty that could conflict with a
Federal duty. And the Federal duty here -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But is that meeting
a standard under State law that your friend's argument
says, that's not what we're talking about here. The
standard is the same. It's just a question under strict
liability that if you follow the same Federal standard
and market this in our State, you're going to pay the
compensation for the reason of -- you know, spreading
the costs.
We don't want you to do something different.
We just want to say that you want to do the same thing
as the Federal government, and then you're going to have
to pay. It's different than the -- at least that's how
I understand their argument, which is that it's
different where the situation says, yes, you can market
it and avoid payment, but only if you do it our way.
That's a different duty for the manufacturer.
MR. YANG: Well, with respect to the
question of stop selling, which I think is what your
question goes to, that you can always escape liability
if you simply stop selling and don't have the market.
It's not clear to me, first, that Respondent is, in
fact, adopting the government's position because in our
view, the obligation to change the labeling to make it
safer and therefore escape liability under design-defect
law in New Hampshire falls within the Court's decision
in PLIVA v. Mensing.
The only distinguishing factor we think that
is material here would be whether the ability to stop
selling means that there's really not a conflicting
obligation. And as that would have been true in
Mensing, it would have been true also in Levine, and
would not have necessitated any impossibility analysis.
And I think this, as my brother was just
explaining, traces back to Florida Lime and Avocado
Growers. The court framed the impossibility preemption
inquiry there -- and I think this is important -- at the
top of page 143. It says, the question is whether
compliance with Federal and State regulation is a
physical impossibility for one engaged in interstate
commerce. That was the -- the formulation.
So the idea is if you are an avocado grower
in Florida and the Federal government said you have to
pick your avocados before they're at 7 percent oil and
then California says, you can't sell in our State unless
it's 8 percent oil, it's impossible to be a person
engaged in interstate commerce there unless you violate
one of those obligations. And when you have to violate
one of those obligations, it's the State law that -
that falls. And I think, Justice Kagan, you were
explaining -
JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, that suggests that
there is an obligation of the Federal government. If
there is one, yes, there's a conflict and yes, there's
an impossibility defense. But if there's no obligation,
if all there is, is permission from the Federal
government, where do you get the impossibility from?
MR. YANG: Let me draw a distinction if -
that I think might help.
When the Federal government were to say -
let's go -- stay with avocados -- that avocados must
have at least 7 percent oil. And the State says, you
know what, we think it actually needs 8 percent oil.
It's not impossible to comply there. But what we have
here is a comprehensive regulatory scheme, where an
expert agency with the relevant information makes an
expert judgment based on sound -- sound scientific
evidence that this drug is, in fact, safe and effective
and -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I take that point,
Mr. Yang. I take that point, Mr. Yang, but I think then
you're -- you're saying something quite deep about the
FDCA, which is that the FDCA should not be thought of as
merely authorizing drug sales.
You're saying essentially that when the -
when the FDA does what it does, it's saying not just -
you know, you can do this if you want to, but you can do
this and we really think this drug ought to be marketed.
So that when States take action against that -- you
know, it's -- it's a conflict.
MR. YANG: Our -- our position is -
JUSTICE KAGAN: And that's -
MR. YANG: -- a little narrower.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- and that's something I
don't think we've really ever said.
MR. YANG: I don't think the Court has
addressed this question expressly. That is -- that's
true. But I think our position is a little -- little
tighter than that. Which is, when the State is imposing
an obligation, they do it based on a safety standard -
that is in fact second-guessing the FDA -- that is
preemptive.
Not simply because the FDA has set the
standard, but the FDCA also has within it the judgment
that safety is best effectuated not only by having the
FDA set the standard, but by forbidding any manufacturer
from deviating from that once it's been approved by the
FDA.
When we're talking about a drug's
formulation, the manufacturer cannot change it. And
that's what brings this within the ambit of
PLIVA v. Mensing. And it also, I think, reflects why
the Florida Lime example is -- is relevant because
when -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So without the
preemption clause, actually, with an express saving
clause, you're arguing essentially complete field
preemption. You're basically saying the minute that the
FDA gives you permission to sell, it's a right to sell.
And -- and it can't be altered by any State police
power.
MR. YANG: No, we're -- we're actually not
saying that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I don't see how
you're not saying that.
MR. YANG: Well, no, with respect to the
design-defect claims that -- and failure to warn, with
respect to generics -- remember, this is exactly what
the Court said in Mensing -- we're saying the result in
Mensing controls here.
Now, if we go to the pure design-defect
claim -- and a pure claim, in our view, is one in which
carves out the failure to warn issue, and it
hypothesizes a reasonable physician that knows all
the -- the health benefits and risks -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's your -
you're telling me that's exactly what the FDA is saying.
You're saying there is no such thing.
MR. YANG: No, but we -- in that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And there's no strict
liability that a State could impose.
MR. YANG: If I might just finish.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would like to hear your
answer.
MR. YANG: Yes. When that pure
design-defect standard has been satisfied, it means that
no physician would prescribe the drug for any person,
which means that drug, regardless of how you might
improve the warnings -- it just doesn't matter because
they know all -- all the adverse and positive benefits
of the drug. It should not be marketed because it
should never be prescribed.
And when it should not be marketed and it
complies with the Federal government's misbranding
standard, about dangerous to health when used as
instructed, and it honors the FDA's rule by requiring
new and scientifically significant information that was
not previously before the FDA, that would not be
preemptive. That is not this case.
And so what we are trying to do is preserve
the FDA's role here, not have juries second-guess on a
case-by-case and State-by-State basis imposing different
safety obligations on manufacturers when Congress has
established a regime for FDA to control this.
Now, we're not saying the FDA's decision is
forever binding. If there is new and scientifically
significant evidence that hasn't been considered by the
FDA -- and this is analogous to what the Court already
did in Wyeth v. Levine -- because there, in the
impossibility preemption, the Court looked to whether or
not there would be newly acquired information that would
allow a manufacturer to go within the changes being
effected regulation in order to change the labeling.
So what we're doing is just like what the
Court required to be done in Wyeth, that in that
context, if you meet the Federal misbranding standard,
and you avoid the problem of PLIVA -- because you don't
have -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This applies to
everything that requires FDA approval, or is this a
prescription drug-only rule?
MR. YANG: May I answer?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Briefly.
MR. YANG: With respect to failure to warn,
you can -- prescription drugs can be sued, generics
cannot. With respect to pure design-defect claims, our
view applies to both.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Frederick?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. FREDERICK: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
I'd like to start with the questions that
you and Justice Alito posed about State law because it's
important to understand, before you have impossibility
conflict preemption, to understand what the State duty
is here.
I think it was conceded that it would not be
impossible to have an absolute liability regime. So the
question here is because New Hampshire actually makes it
somewhat easier for manufacturers to evade liability,
that that somehow creates a different kind of preemption
problem. We would submit that it doesn't.
What the State law is seeking to do here,
Mr. Chief Justice, is to impose liability where there is
proof of an unreasonably dangerous product.
That unreasonable danger entails evidence of
a risk/benefit analysis that looks at the overall risks
to the population against the overall benefits that are
provided to the drug.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The jury decides all of
this, right?
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's wonderful.
Twelve -- twelve tried men and few -- and
true decide for the whole State what the -- what the
cost/benefit analysis is for a -- a very novel drug that
unquestionably has some deleterious effects, but also
can save some lives.
And the jury's going to decide that?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes, it is.
And notably, the FDCA doesn't preclude that.
Wyeth v. Levine affirms that principle. And what's
important here is that under State law, there's not a
duty to change the design or to change the label. It
is, Justice -- Mr. Chief Justice, exactly as you
postulated, that if there is an unreasonably dangerous
drug, that the people that are harmed egregiously, like
Karen Bartlett, will have an opportunity to compensation
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm not so sure -
I'm not so sure it works that way because of the jury
point. They didn't say that yes, you can market this
drug, it benefits -- you know, 99.9 percent of the
people, but there is that 0.1 percent, and you're going
to have to compensate that person.
They said the risks outweigh the benefits,
period. So you should not market this at all. And it
does seem inconsistent with the -- the Federal regime.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, of course,
Mr. Chief Justice, Mutual put in their defense in this
case -- they rested after the plaintiffs put in their
case. So it's not to say that in another case, they
wouldn't have an opportunity to prove that there is some
benefit of their drug.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what do you in
that case? You've got one jury saying the risks
outweigh the benefits, can't do it. And then you're
saying well, later, there might be another jury saying
yes, you can.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, there's no claim
preclusion effect of a jury verdict, and that is why
there is no offensive collateral estoppel that would be
applied, Mutual can adopt a different trial strategy.
It is often the case, Mr. Chief Justice, that in these
kinds of cases, the defense applies different tactics to
how they defend this case.
In this particular case, they chose to waive
their comment k affirmative defense. They chose not to
put in any affirmative evidence itself. They chose
after the trial in their Rule 50 motion for judgment as
a matter of law not to challenge the warning
instructions that were given to the jury -- as Judge
Boudin noted and as the district court noted -- they had
waived their preemption warning argument.
And so what they seek to do here after not
being able to show, which they cannot show under New
Hampshire Supreme Court precedent, Vautour and Kelleher,
cases that we cited in our brief, that New Hampshire
imposes any duty to change any conduct by the
manufacturer whatsoever.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Frederick, it -- it does
seem to me, and I understand that there's a waiver
argument floating around here, but it does seem to me
that this case was litigated such that the adequacy of
the warning is really all over this case. There was
expert testimony about the adequacy of the warning,
there were jury instructions about the adequacy of the
warning.
In the closing statements that the lawyer
gave, it was -- there was a lot of talk about -- that
the FDA's decision to change the label, to show that the
label was ineffective before. So there is just all over
this stuff about adequacy of the warning, which does
suggest that this is sort of within the four corners of
Mensing.
MR. FREDERICK: Let me address that because
I think that's the hardest part of this case to
understand, and why this is different from Mensing. In
a strict liability case in New Hampshire, the warning is
not relevant as a -- as an element of the claim. What
the jury is required as an element of the claim is to
prove unreasonable dangerousness.
And District Judge La Plant, who presided
over this very complex and difficult trial with a lot of
skill, understood the difference between the concept of
adequacy of a warning which describes the risks and
efficacy of the warning which limits or minimizes the
risks.
And all over the pretrial instructions, he
made very clear to the counsel, you are not to argue
about adequacy of the warning because that goes to the
comment k defense that they waived on the eve of trial.
Instead, once the jury finds that the drug is
unreasonably dangerous, it may use the warning as a way
to limit or minimize the risk.
In other words, the warning could only
benefit Mutual because liability was going to be found
in spite of the warning and not because of the warning.
JUSTICE BREYER: I see that. But I don't
understand why that matters. That is, the -- I mean, I
was thinking just what you said. I was thinking well,
I -- I dissented in the other case, but I lost, okay?
So I lost, I lost. The -- the -- the point is that -
that you have a drug, and you say to the jury, well, if
there were no warning here at all, then it would be
unreasonably dangerous.
I think, yes, that probably applies to
chemotherapy, it probably applies to Parkinson's, it
probably applies to all kind, but you see, says the
defense, there is a warning here and it says how to use
it. And as you say, that would be not -- it would be
despite or whatever it is, despite, not because.
But it seems to me in terms of -- it comes
for the same thing, lots of drugs would be dangerous,
too dangerous, unreasonably so without a warning.
Chemotherapy is what I'm thinking of. But properly
labeled they're not, and so that seems to be your case.
MR. FREDERICK: It is not.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because -- why?
MR. FREDERICK: No, absolutely not,
Justice Breyer. The evidence here was clear. No
warning would have made any difference to lessening the
risk. And that is because, and this is on -
JUSTICE BREYER: In other words, in this
case, they have to find that -- that no warning -- there
is no such warning that could make a difference, that's
what they're asked to find?
MR. FREDERICK: All that they -- in terms of
minimizing the risk. Justice Breyer, here -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, how can that be,
Mr. Frederick, because the plaintiff really spent a
large portion of their case trying to show this, that
the warning was inadequate. So the plaintiff must have
thought that there was a possibility that if the warning
was adequate, the jury would find one thing, but if the
warning was not adequate, liability would follow.
MR. FREDERICK: The case as it was litigated
up until the day before the trial was with a comment k
defense, which allows as an affirmative defense the
defendant to say if the drug is unavoidably unsafe and
it has an adequate warning, i.e. it adequately describes
what the risks are, complete immunity from suit.
They abandoned that comment k defense on the
eve of trial. And so as the judge understood and
instructed the jury, the only role that the warning
actually played was whether it could lessen the risk to
patients who took the drug, i.e. in the risk/benefit
analysis, it's somewhat less risky in weighing it
against the benefits.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The failure -- the
failure to warn defense was -- the -- the judge struck
that out. So there was no failure to warn defense in
the case.
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct, that's
correct. And as the Le Blanc case held in the
New Hampshire Supreme Court, the New Hampshire law
treats failure to warn cases as distinct from
design-defect cases. Here, no words would have made any
difference because the scientific -
JUSTICE BREYER: Where is that? That's -- I
do see that distinction. If, what you're -- but look,
the complaint's filled with words about adequate
warning, no adequate warning, no adequate warning, da,
da, da.
MR. FREDERICK: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Now what you're
saying is, is really what the jury found, nothing to do
with adequate. There is no warning in the world that
anybody could have invented that would have made a
difference. I'll have to think about that one. But in
the meantime, where is it that that's what they said?
MR. FREDERICK: Where is it in the record?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. How do I discover
that you're right about this? Because everything in
the -- in the complaint that I've read so far seems to
talk about the adequacy of warnings, not that there is
no warning in the universe could possibly have made a
difference.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, I would direct you to
two -
JUSTICE BREYER: How do I discover that?
MR. FREDERICK: -- two pieces. The JMOL
order that the judge issued, which is in the petition
appendix, goes through this very clearly. And Judge Le
Plant understood how the different roles of warning
apply, and he instructed the jury, and this is in the
pre-formal colloquy that he's giving to the jury orally,
you can find this at 496 of the Joint Appendix where he
says, "Adequacy is not an issue for -- the adequacy of
the warning is not an issue for you to decide."
He then goes further to explain that "You
will only consider the warning after you have considered
the unreasonable danger" -- that's at 513 to 514, and
then on page 516 of the Joint Appendix, he says, "You
only consider the warning to minimize the risk," i.e. to
benefit Mutual in the assessment of whether or not in a
risk/benefit analysis this drug has greater risks
than -
JUSTICE BREYER: The second point is a
different point. The second point is, look, I have
chemotherapy, it saves 100 and it kills 10. All right.
If you have no label at all, a jury might find it was
unreasonably dangerous, but once you put in the label
explaining the whole thing, it doesn't. It isn't
unreasonably dangerous because of the situation, and
they could perhaps wouldn't find it.
All right. Now, you can call that
diminishing or you could call it adequacy. Call it what
you want, but that seems to me to come to the same thing
and is different from saying, no label in the universe
would say it.
MR. FREDERICK: Justice Breyer, a
chemotherapy drug has got a huge benefit. It
potentially saves you from cancer. A nonsteroidal
antiinflammatory drug, of which there were 16 other
types, is not at all analogous to a chemotherapy drug.
JUSTICE BREYER: We're talking about what
juries could find and that's what -- and I don't know
about Parkinson's -- I don't know what these drugs are.
That's why I said let the FDA say it.
MR. FREDERICK: But that's why when the jury
gets evidence that aspirin and acetaminophen, Tylenol
produce the same kind of pain relief, but they do not
produce the kind of SJS/TEN that Ms. Bartlett -- that
caused 60 percent of her body to burn. I mean, that
gives you a very clear contrast.
JUSTICE ALITO: If that's correct, and maybe
it is, doesn't that mean the drug should never have been
approved?
MR. FREDERICK: No, because the evidence at
the time of approval had not yet been ascertained. What
was clear from the unpublished Pharmacia report that
went into evidence in this case was that between the
time of 1980 and 1997, the adjusted reporting rate of
these adverse incidents went very high, and it was of a
rate that was comparable to Bextra, which went on the
market several years after that study ended, in which
the FDA, in looking at a comparable adjusted adverse
reporting rate, concluded should be taken off the
market.
JUSTICE ALITO: But isn't it true that when
the -- the FDA reviewed this whole class of drugs, they
decided to pull Bextra, but not this drug?
MR. FREDERICK: That is true, but what the
FDA did not take into account, and this is what the
district judge instructed the jury on September 22nd,
2010, I think it's page 108 in the charging colloquy, is
the evidence in this case was that the FDA did not have
that evidence.
So what the Solicitor General seeks to argue
here is evidence that was not in the record and in which
Mutual's own expert who created this evidence testified
in deposition he didn't give it to the FDA. And then
Mutual never put him on the stand to be cross examined.
And so now what we have is a trial record that shows
this evidence was not given to the FDA at all.
JUSTICE ALITO: The -- the SG says that the
FDA did have this right, did have it and did consider
it, and that's incorrect?
MR. FREDERICK: That is incorrect. That the
FDA, if it considered it, there is no record of it doing
so because in the response to the 2005 citizen petition
and in a later memorandum, it never mentions sulindac.
So if you are to take any kind of regulatory preemption
here, it surely has to be on the basis of a considered
action that the FDA takes after notice and comment
rulemaking.
That was the kind of standard that was
advocated in the concurring opinion in Wyeth v. Levine,
that is absent here. And, in fact, this case has even a
weaker case for that kind of considered and rejected
than in Levine itself where there was evidence that
Phenergan had caused some arterial exposure.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you want me to write
down in this case, from my understanding, that under New
Hampshire law, strict liability is determined quite
without reference to the adequacy of warning?
MR. FREDERICK: You can do that. Yes,
Justice Kennedy, you can do that. It is a factor for
the jury to consider. It is not an element of the
claim. And what PLIVA makes clear -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now wait. What's -
what's a factor? The warning is or is not a factor?
MR. FREDERICK: The warning can be a factor.
What that -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's -- that's not
the thrust of your argument. And I think it was a
factor here for some of the reasons Justice Kagan has
suggested.
MR. FREDERICK: And Justice Kennedy -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, which does -- was
the warning relevant or not relevant to the
determination of strict liability?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes, it was relevant as in
this case. But, Justice Kennedy, if you were to take
the position that mere evidence that is a factor for the
jury to consider, even though there is no need to change
any legal duty, you would be adopting field preemption
under this statute because the whole thrust of PLIVA -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm talking about the
definition of the duty. Was it permissible for the jury
to define the duty here and the breach of the duty in
part by -- by reference to the adequacy of the warning?
And I -- I now understand your answer to be yes.
MR. FREDERICK: No. And let's be clear on
our nomenclature here. A duty is a legal requirement
imposed under State common law, a duty to use due care,
a duty to change the label, which is what was conceded
in PLIVA and Mensing. Here New Hampshire law does not
require a duty to change the label or to change the
design. All it does, Justice Kennedy, is to say, if the
jury finds that the risks outweigh the benefits, it may
consider whether the warning would have lessened the
risk.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you are saying
there is a huge difference between saying you didn't put
the warning in, so you are liable for $9 million, and
saying, you are liable for $15 million, but if you put
the warning in, you are only liable for 9 million?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, when there is a
comment k defense, Mr. Chief Justice, you may be off
completely. And that's why the role of comment k is so
critical in these strict liability claims. All -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But -- but just to
get back to my -- to my question. You say there is a
difference between saying, you have to put on warning
and you are going to be liable if you don't, and saying,
you are liable no matter no matter what because it's
strict liability, but if you put on a warning it's
reduced. If you are a drug manufacturer, you are
supposed to see a difference in those two situations?
MR. FREDERICK: There is a difference, and
the difference is this, assume in the Diana Levine case
there had been a strict liability claim that went all
the way through. The question under a strict liability
law would be would a -- would -- did the warning lessen
the risk that she would have had gangrene and amputation
of her arm? The adequacy of the warning under a strict
liability law simply goes to did the manufacturer
adequately describe the risks that the patient might
incur.
In the Levine case it very well might have
been that the warning adequately describes that there's
a possibility of gangrene, but it didn't do enough to
lessen the risk that she would sustain. And because
there was a way to change the label to lessen that risk,
she got a judgment for a failure to warn. Because the
manufacturer's conduct was such that it could have
improved the label.
Here we acknowledge and the evidence shows
there is no way to change the label here. Some -
some -- some number of people, maybe some in this room,
might take sulindac and get SJS/TEN. We don't know who
they are, and we can't write words that would tell
anyone in this room, you have a lesser chance of getting
that horrible disease.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, but then if you apply
this -- what is deeply bothering me in all these cases,
and it's why I came up with and said, the FDA has to
tell us -- you know. Because just what you said before;
what you say applies to sulindac also applies to 12
people who will tell the Mary Hitchcock Hospital up in
Dartmouth that they can't use a certain kind of
chemotherapy.
You see, you could in certain horrible cases
find a very sympathetic plaintiff who really did suffer
terribly. And -- and -- and you are getting 12 people
rather than the FDA. So my solution to it, which you
know because you read Medtronics, may not work, but it's
the best I can think of.
Now, what -- what -- you can tell me if you
want, no, there is some totally different thing. But
what you are saying at the moment, what I do in my mind
is I say, beware because it's also true potentially of
some of these life-saving drugs and that's what's
worrying me.
MR. FREDERICK: Let's be clear,
Justice Breyer. There is a difference between the
application of impossibility preemption, which I don't
think anybody here can argue with a straight face that
simply paying a judgment in strict liability is
impossible in light of the Federal regime, an obstacle
preemption.
Now, it may well be that there could be
cases out there like your life-saving type drug, which
by the way has a special regulation under a special
statute to ensure that that is on the market, and some
other drug where the risk/benefit equation is -- is
such.
But surely in our system we have to trust
district judges to be able to grant or deny judgments as
a matter of law, where they conclude that the evidence
would not be sufficient to show that the risk outweighed
the benefit.
And here, the judge made very clear that
because Mutual had not put in any evidence of the
benefit of its drug at all and arguably couldn't have
done so because this drug is like aspirin -- except that
it causes these horrific injuries -- it's reasonable to
suppose that a jury which can decide misbranding actions
under the FDCA, and that has been acknowledged by the
majority in Wyeth v. Levine, can make the very same
risk/benefit safety determination that Justice Thomas in
his concurring opinion said also is -- enabled the
States to make. The States are not precluded under the
FDCA from making that kind of judgment.
So in the hard case, Justice Breyer, there
is a mechanism for preemption. The FDA has to act. It
has to act pursuant to notice and comment rulemaking.
It has to identify which drugs it thinks would not be
subject to these kinds of strict liability claims, but
it hasn't done that here.
All it's done is to say, we happen to have
some evidence in our files, ergo preemption. Well,
preemption doesn't work like that under the Supremacy
Clause.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Just -- just to -
because my memory is failing me, is this drug still on
the market?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. And is it on
the market with a different label?
MR. FREDERICK: It is. The label changed
after Karen Bartlett sustained the injuries that she did
in this case. In fact, that was one of the arguments
that -- that at the time, this was before PLIVA, okay?
So there was a lot of failure to warn being argued
because the regime, as the case came into trial was
under Wyeth v. Levine, it was not under the
PLIVA v. Mensing case.
So Justice Kagan, that's why it's perfectly
reasonable for the trial lawyers here to think that the
warning is an appropriate thing because this Court's
case that had just been decided made that perfectly
clear. But what was interesting here was that Judge La
Plant made a very clear distinction between the role
that the warning would play, appropriately so, under a
strict liability regime.
Now, I would like to note that the avocado
case is one that did not entail the State banning
avocado sales. Judge Boudin is absolutely right when he
says that there is nothing under the FDCA to preclude
the State from making a reasonable safety determination
that might lead to the withdrawal of the drug. Now,
admittedly, that is a rare circumstance.
And that is not what New Hampshire is doing
here, and in his post-trial orders Judge La Plant made
clear that is not what New Hampshire is imposing here.
All New Hampshire is imposing here is a duty to pay
compensation if your unreasonably dangerous product
harms a patient.
JUSTICE ALITO: This argument about stopping
the sale of the drug completely seems to me to eliminate
the impossibility -- impossibility preemption, doesn't
it?
MR. FREDERICK: No, because the -- the duty
here, if there is any duty to stop selling under New
Hampshire law, it can be complied with by not selling
the drug. There's nothing in Federal law that requires
or mandates the sale of these drugs.
JUSTICE ALITO: But that's true -- isn't
that true often in -- in these impossibility cases? Let
me say Congress passes a law that says everywhere in the
United States you must drive on the right side of the
road, and New Hampshire is quirky, they say, in New
Hampshire you have to drive on the left side of the
road. That would seem to me to be a very clear
impossibility case, wouldn't it?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: But you could comply with
both rules by not driving.
MR. FREDERICK: It would be very dangerous.
JUSTICE ALITO: Not to drive at all?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, it would be dangerous
to try comply with both at the same time. But certainly
if -
JUSTICE ALITO: You decide -- if you decide
to drive -
MR. FREDERICK: Yeah. If the difference -
right. But the difference, Justice Alito, is what is
the content of the substantive duty. If the content of
the substantive duty is you -- the State says to do one
thing and the Feds say do the opposite, that's
impossibility conflict.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The Feds didn't say to do
the opposite. They said -- they didn't say you have to
drive in New Hampshire. They say, you must drive on the
right if you drive. They don't require you to drive in
New Hampshire.
MR. FREDERICK: Right, but our position,
Justice Scalia, is if you that follow PLIVA to what it
says in its logical extension, you look at the -- you
look at the content of the duty there, the content of
the duty was to change the label. What the majority
opinion says is that Minnesota and Louisiana law said
you must change the label and the Federal government
says, you cannot change the label. So here -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, just -- I'm
sorry to interrupt you. But your friend on the other
side, of course, says PLIVA involves strict liability as
well. So it did not say you must change the label.
MR. FREDERICK: Actually we dispute what
they say, and we've got an -- an excursus about Mensing
in our brief, and what is clear is that as the case came
to this Court, the only duty that was being litigated
was the duty concerning the warning label. There was
not a strict liability claim in the sense of a design
defect.
Mind you, there are strict liability claims
in -- in failure to warn as well. That is essentially
what comment k gets at. This case however, was tried as
a design case only, and the State law duty made very
clear there was no duty to change the design of the
drug. And so therefore, under Mensing, there can't be
impossibility because State law is not telling you -
JUSTICE BREYER: But even the compensation,
suppose you had strict liability that Florida Avocado
Growers could -- what they have to do, all they have to
do since they can just be fined and the money would go
to pay the consumers of California who have the
unfortunate mixup sometimes of eating Florida avocados.
I mean, that would raise at least serious problems of -
commerce clause problems and preemption and so forth.
MR. FREDERICK: Justice Breyer, that's not
an impossibility hypothetical. That's an obstacle
hypothetical. And in Wyeth, I think six justices said
there is no obstacle under the FDCA of having State law
remedies to compensate injured patients.
So you know, the reason why it's important
to keep these concepts of preemption distinct is that
they ask you to grant cert on whether or not it is
impossible to comply in light of PLIVA, which was an
impossibility preemption case. That was not an obstacle
preemption case.
Now, having -- you know, I think gotten a
deeper view of what State law requires, they're seeking
to shift the case into an obstacle case, and virtually
all of the Federal government's arguments here are
obstacle-type arguments. It is because the FDA is so
expert that it has this information in its files and
that that should therefore negate and displace and
nullify State law, which is a rather sweeping
proposition.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is your point in this
case that obstacle preemption has been waived?
MR. FREDERICK: Granted -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or were you granted cert
just on impossibility?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes, yes. Our position, and
we -- we -- we made this clear that all they were asking
in the cert petition was for an impossibility look at
PLIVA. The obstacle argument has been waived in our
view of the way this Court ordinarily takes certiorari
cases and then decides them. So -- and on the
impossibility point, I think that our position is clear.
Now, Justice Kagan, the very first question
out of the box was does this rule that they're
advocating apply to brand name drugs and the answer
unfortunately is yes. Because the premise of their
argument is that simply because the FDA approved the
drug and there would need to be some State law claim
that would give rise to some alteration, that that
necessarily would mean that it would be impossible to
comply with.
And so that applies to brand name drugs as
well as generic drugs. We don't see a principal
difference, unfortunately, to distinguish them. There
may be some difference in certain State laws. I don't
want to speak for all 50 States, but the basic gist of
their argument is FDA approval ber alles.
JUSTICE KAGAN: There is no such thing then
as a brand name manufacturer can change some design
features of the drug -- you know, without FDA approval
or without going back to square one of the FDA, there's
nothing like that?
MR. FREDERICK: No, the FDA requires a -- a
new drug or an abbreviated drug application, I get the
terms of them sometimes confused, but if there was to be
a tweak to the design, they'd need to go to the FDA to
get approval for that.
I want to make one other point, which is
that strict liability applies to distributors as well as
to manufacturers. And so here it seems obvious that a
distributor can't change the design and it cannot change
the label.
But under normal principles of strict
liability, the idea is that if you are a seller of the
product in your normal course and it is a dangerous
product that causes somebody to be injured, you can be
held liable in strict liability. That principle is very
well settled.
And so it would seem odd to suppose that the
distributor who has no power to make any change in
conduct that would make the product any safer also gets
to be immunized from suit.
I have no further points unless the Court
has further questions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you respond to the
argument, Mutual's argument that they have -- in 2005,
they made -- this drug produced $7 million. The jury
verdict was 21 million. They said that 3 years of their
earnings wiped out.
MR. FREDERICK: Justice Ginsburg, I've never
been in a case in my time arguing before this Court
where somebody in a reply brief at the merits put in
evidence that they did not put in at trial and they
sought to persuade you that that was somehow relevant.
Number 2, the issue here concerns sulindac
manufactured by all the different manufacturers of
sulindac, not just Mutual.
Number 3, we never have seen that
information. It was never served on us. We have no way
to test it. I have no idea whether it is accurate or
not.
Number 4, if they are only making
$7 million, they ought to withdraw from the market
because their -- their product causes such horrific
injuries it ought not to be sold.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Lefkowitz, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAY P. LEFKOWITZ
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Thank you. I'd like to just
make three brief points.
It is rather incredible to hear counsel talk
about how the warnings were not the issue in this case.
From the opening statement of plaintiff's counsel, I'm
quoting now, "The evidence will show you that sulindac
was unreasonably dangerous and had an inadequate warning
as well. One of the easiest ways to show you this will
be to show you that they got a new and better warning
about six months after respondent took the drug. The
label got better.
And at CA App. 2761, we have the FDA letter
explaining exactly why, in the FDA's view, the new
warning was going to make the drug safer. What it
said" -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did you get to the
jury's -- to the instructions to the jury?
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Absolutely not. It was a
proper instruction under New Hampshire law. It was an
instruction that -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So that's what the jury
was supposed to apply, not what counsel said.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: The jury applied the
instruction that the court gave it, which was to decide
whether or not the jury was good enough -- the warning
was good enough or not. And, in fact, as the First
Circuit made very, very clear at PA 18A, it said, the
label was relevant to the design defect. The lack of a
clearer warning made the product itself more dangerous
under the risk/benefit analysis of New Hampshire law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you just said there
was nothing wrong with the jury instructions, at least
you didn't object.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Your Honor, let me be clear.
We objected at the very beginning of this case, we said
this is all preempted. There is no ability to change
the warnings. The warnings are acceptable as a matter
of Federal law. And this Court, every Justice on the
Court agreed in Mensing that we couldn't change the
warnings. Once the Court rejected that, it was a fair
statement of New Hampshire law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How -- how did the Court
reject it? They threw out the failure to warn claim.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: The trial judge rejected our
summary judgment motion on preemption. We raised these
issues.
JUSTICE BREYER: It says on page 5496,
adequacy of the warning, I guess, the judge says, is not
an issue before this jury. And that was the point.
MR. LEFKOWITZ: Well, he said that, but then
he went and he instructed the jury and, again, as the
First Circuit made clear, it was in fact -- the
dangerousness was because of the arguable inadequacies
of the warning, which the plaintiff said we could have
changed, we should have changed.
I want to just finish with two brief points,
if I may. On impossibility, look, this impossibility
doctrine under preemption is premised on the fact that
parties will engage in conduct. As Justice Breyer made
clear in his opinion in the Geier case, he said, under
ordinary obstacle principles, a State might be able to
make you liable for using the Federally required
windshield retention requirements.
Obviously, there is no Federal requirement
to sell cars. It conditions that if you sell the car,
you have a requirement. If you sell a drug, a generic
drug, you have a particular requirement.
The distinction between strict liability and
negligence, Cipollone, Riegel, make absolutely clear
there is no basis whatsoever for a distinction under
law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:15 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
33:25 41:24 answer 25:16 arguably 44:6 avocado 15:24
adjust 19:6 50:17 38:9 43:14 45:23,25 49:1
37:22 ANTHONY 1:18 argues 12:6 22:1,18,18 49:5
56:9 adopt 30:2 antiinflammat... 24:14 52:13 20:23 26:24
13:2,5
9:1 App 53:20 8:10 9:16,16,17 back 4:9 8:8
37:19,22 APPEARANC... 20:10,21 27:12 bad 9:9
9:12,15
45:25 54:1
33:23 application 43:13 53:7 based 20:6 22:24
13:5 51:16 articulates 12:14 behalf 1:16,22
37:11,25 apply 14:25 15:2 articulating 2:4,11,14 3:8
46:11,20 17:23 35:20 10:22 15:22 27:13 53:8
42:16 50:17 articulation benefit 29:18
38:25
14:3,20 17:1 aspirin 37:6 44:7 43:4
31:1,7,20
35:10,23
51:7,14 Assistant 1:18 beware 43:8
36:17
40:12
approved 4:7 41:17 37:20 38:2
55:6
21:15 37:13 50:19 7:25 binary 6:21
33:19,20
case 3:4,11,24 challenge 30:10 39:15 41:18 common 40:16
11:2 50:17 11:5 12:10,15 26:20 28:23,23 4:24 5:9 6:3,4 comparable
51:6 16:11,19 17:7 30:18 31:5 40:6 17:18 24:24 37:20,22
5:7 6:10 30:3,5,6,23,24 48:6,10,22 51:6 class 38:1 49:12
10:19,25 31:11,13 32:11 51:18,18 52:2 classic 3:11 7:7 compensation
34:19 40:4 41:17 42:1 changes 26:19 49:7 complaint's
35:7,15 44:16 45:9,12 charge 13:22 clear 6:16 7:19 34:21
37:1 45:14,18,24 charging 38:6 7:20 10:13 14:8 complete 24:14
43:12 47:2 48:13,20 chemotherapy 17:21 21:4 34:1
48:25 48:21 49:17,18 32:17,25 36:10 31:24 33:5 completely 41:6
55:5,17 49:21,21 50:4 36:22,25 42:23 37:10,16 39:15 46:12
48:13 54:18 55:18 17:25 18:5,20 44:4 45:19,20 compliance
53:10 56:7,8 20:9 27:5,10,15 46:7 47:1 48:13 21:21
cases 6:2 7:7 28:3,24 29:4,14 48:22 50:9,14 complied 46:17
caused 18:9 37:9 10:13,14 12:5 colloquy 35:21 40:17
44:8 51:23 53:1 Circuit's 17:14 36:18 concern 18:21
44:13 27:10 31:24 32:23,24 36:12 depend 11:25 43:6 45:6 52:18
52:3 55:17 course 16:18 dangerousness 33:25 42:2 36:17
14:25 51:22 55:11 design 3:20 4:3,4 35:13
16:19 court 1:1,13 3:10 Dartmouth 42:22 4:6,6,7,12,15 directly 6:25
20:7 5:16,17 7:8,19 DAVID 1:22 4:23 5:4,6,11 13:12
23:12 7:24 8:1 12:10 2:10 27:12 6:3,8,14,15,18 discover 35:7,15
47:18 14:7,23,24 day 33:22 7:2,3,7 10:3,6,7 disease 42:15
17:20 18:6,12 6:12 14:11 17:10 dispute 48:11
26:15,17,22 47:11,11 54:7 51:6,13,18 34:16 49:14
26:10 27:15 30:12,16 decided 38:2 54:11 distinction 4:21
34:15 48:14 45:18 design-defect 5:16,21 7:24
39:14 54:7,21,22,23 50:13 25:3,18 27:8 34:20 45:20
54:25 decision 4:22 34:17 56:1,3
38:20,24 Court's 4:22 6:19 deep 23:4 determination 6:12 51:1
21:8 45:17 deeper 49:20 40:2 44:12 46:2 distinguishing
creates 27:25 defect 3:20 4:12 39:10 distributor 51:18
cross 38:13 6:3,15,18 7:2,3 Diana 41:17 distributors
28:11 dancing 8:10 34:11 41:5 different 3:16,16 dollar 13:23
37:11 danger 28:5 36:2 define 19:19 3:17 4:14 5:6 draw 22:15
11:16 12:16,21 deleterious 20:17,20,22,24 47:22,22
7:4,21 earnings 52:11 26:14 28:5 30:8 failing 45:2 48:5 49:22
9:9 easier 27:24 33:5 37:6,14,17 failure 3:21 6:3 54:21 55:22
10:20,25 easiest 53:16 38:7,8,10,11 10:3 24:24 25:5 Federally 55:20
13:7,20 eating 49:5 38:15 39:6 40:5 27:6 34:9,10,11 Feds 47:17,19
effect 29:25 42:9 44:1,5,23 34:16 42:6 field 24:14 40:7
17:1 19:7 effected 26:20 52:15 53:14 45:11 48:19 figure 5:21
22:25 effective 22:25 exactly 11:4 55:1 files 44:23 49:24
25:19 effects 28:16 14:10 15:21 fair 54:23 filled 34:21
28:8 effectuated 24:2 24:25 25:9 falls 18:11 21:8 find 4:19 5:16
29:1,7,18 efficacy 14:19 28:24 53:21 22:7 6:22 33:9,11,19
33:24 31:21 examined 38:13 far 35:9 35:22 36:11,15
36:6,22,24 egregiously 29:1 example 15:23 FDA 7:11,22 8:5 37:2 42:25
37:12 either 4:24 13:20 15:24 16:7 17:7 9:5,13 10:5,10 finds 32:2 40:21
41:14 17:9 24:10 14:3,3,20 16:23 fined 49:3
44:6,7 element 31:14 excursus 48:12 17:1 23:8,23,25 finish 25:14
46:3,12,18 31:15 39:14 existed 10:2 24:3,5,16 25:9 55:14
50:20 eliminate 46:12 exists 10:1 26:5,11,15 27:2 first 6:16 9:16
52:9 embedded 19:11 expensive 12:2 37:4,22 38:1,4 10:13,13 12:4
55:24 enable 14:1 expert 22:23,24 38:7,12,15,17 15:20 17:14
enabled 44:13 30:25 38:11 38:20,25 42:18 19:21 21:4
12:2,21 enforcing 11:11 expertise 17:3 49:23 50:19 55:10
17:2,2 engage 55:17 explain 35:25 51:4,7,8,10,13 floating 30:22
32:23 37:3 engaged 21:22 explaining 21:17 53:20 floor 14:1,11
43:9 44:19 22:4 22:8 36:13 FDA's 7:12 Florida 15:24
50:17,24 enormous 14:15 53:21 13:25 26:3,8,12 17:6 21:17,25
ensure 43:21 exposure 39:7 31:5 53:21 24:10 49:1,5
ergo 44:23 extent 6:7 49:11 footnote 14:23
escape 21:2,7 features 51:7 forbidding 24:3
28:23 ESQ 1:16,18,22 F Federal 3:12 7:5 forever 26:13
40:7,10 2:3,6,10,13 face 8:13 43:14 7:5 11:12,12 formulation 8:15
essential 10:12 fact 6:16,17,20 13:12,17 14:10 21:23 24:7
46:8 essentially 23:7 9:2 12:13 14:15 14:11,13 15:8 forth 49:7
47:15 24:14 48:19 14:25 16:25 15:10,11,13,25 found 7:8 8:1
48:2,3,14 established 19:17 21:5 16:4,8,12,24 12:15 16:18
14:16 16:21 22:25 23:23 18:17,23 19:8 32:6 35:1
12:6,13 give 15:18,20 13:3 18:7 19:20 hypothetical 33:17 53:15
38:12 50:21 21:8 27:23 49:9,10 incidents 37:19
29:13 given 30:11 30:16,17 31:13 inconsistent
30:20 38:15 34:15,15 39:10 I 29:12
33:2,4,12 gives 14:3 15:12 40:18 46:5,7,8 idea 21:24 51:21 incorrect 38:18
34:13 24:16 37:10 46:17,24,25 52:22 38:19
35:6,13 giving 35:21 47:21,23 54:2 identify 44:19 incredible 53:11
36:21 go 4:8,15 9:8 54:13,24 immunity 34:1 incur 41:25
38:3,19 22:18 25:3 hand 4:15,16 immunized 52:4 ineffective 31:6
26:19 49:3 hands 17:11 implicit 18:13,15 information
41:4,16 51:13 happen 44:22 important 4:20 22:23 26:4,18
45:4,7 goes 21:2 31:25 happens 4:23 21:19 27:18 49:24 52:21
47:3,6,8 35:18,25 41:23 8:10 28:22 49:13 ingredient 3:17
48:11 going 6:2 8:14 hard 44:16 impose 18:22 8:4
50:5,8 13:7,22 18:22 hardest 31:11 25:13 28:3 ingredients 3:13
52:12 18:24 19:3,7,7 harm 18:8 imposed 3:15 8:4
gotten 49:19 health 25:7 26:2 imposing 11:10 injury 11:17
22:10,14,17 51:24 11:24 15:7,13 instruction 6:20
government's high 37:19 16:19 17:6 instructions
grant 43:25 Hitchcock 42:21 21:15,18,22 53:25 54:15
9:22,25 granted 7:22 15:19 17:5 27:18 43:13 interesting 45:19
13:1,18 50:5,6 54:17 46:13,13,21 interpretation
55:24 granting 14:14 honors 26:3 47:2,18 48:24 5:18
5:7 grower 21:24 horrific 44:8 53:1 50:14 55:15,15 interstate 14:14
24:25 27:7 Growers 15:25 Hospital 42:21 impossible 15:9 21:22 22:4
guess 4:2 6:8 hybrid 18:7 43:16 49:16 involved 6:7 17:1
13:24 14:7 5:10 improve 25:21 issue 6:14 11:4
34:9 52:7 H hypothesizes improved 42:8 13:10 14:8
53:24 Hampshire 3:15 25:6 inadequacies 16:16 17:9 25:5
6:15,20 10:1 hypothesizing 55:11 35:23,24 52:17
30:20 33:14 lack 6:17 10:15 40:15 33:21 48:14
45:15 54:11 lessen 34:5 little 18:21 23:15
53:7 45:8 law 3:12 10:1 lessening 33:6 logical 48:1
30:11 39:8,13,16,20 15:11,11,13,13 22:18 40:14 looked 18:12
34:3,10 39:24,25 40:4,9 16:12 17:20 43:11 26:17
38:5 40:20 18:7 19:12 20:7 Levine 18:14,15 looking 4:12
45:19,25 key 16:6 20:10 21:8 22:6 21:14 26:16 37:22
55:2,6 kills 36:10 27:17 28:2,22 28:21 39:3,6 looks 28:6
24:1 30:9 38:23 39:2,5 41:20,23 44:1 liability 3:15 7:12 45:11
43:15 42:22 44:15 46:17,18,22 11:15,20 12:11 lots 13:11 32:23
55:3 kinds 30:4 44:20 48:4,21,24 12:14 13:2 Louisiana 48:4
29:5,20,22 20:15 22:20 lawsuit 10:2 27:22,24 28:3 making 44:15
30:11 23:9,12 25:22 lawyer 31:3 31:13 32:6 46:2 52:24
32:2,13 29:7 37:2,3 lawyers 4:19 33:20 39:10 mandate 7:5,6
34:4 35:1 42:12,19 43:3 45:16 40:2 41:7,13,18 mandates 46:19
36:11 49:13,19 51:7 lay 17:4 41:19,23 43:15 manufacture
38:5 39:14 knowing 8:15 Le 34:14 35:18 44:20 45:22 9:22
44:9 knows 25:6 lead 46:3 48:9,16,18 49:1 manufactured
53:25 54:4 leading 6:19 51:16,21,24 52:18
55:7 L Lefkowitz 1:16 56:1 manufacturer
L 1:7 2:3,13 3:6,7,9 liable 41:1,2,3,11 13:1 18:16,22
46:6 5:14,23,25 6:11 55:20 26:19 30:19
28:23 8:24 9:12,15,20 life-saving 43:9 manufacturers
10:7,11 43:19
41:5,6 42:5,8,10 45:6 13:4,8,24 14:6 19:23,24 43:16 27:24 51:17
45:7 48:3,5,6 14:21 15:4,19 49:16 52:18
53:19 54:11 54:1,6,17 55:2 21:17 24:10 18:10 42:7
16:22 mere 40:5 needs 22:20 obligated 16:17 ordinarily 50:12
19:23 merely 23:6 negate 49:25 obligation 8:1 ordinary 14:25
21:3 merits 52:14 negligence 17:18 11:11 16:4 15:3 55:19
37:21 metoclopramide 17:23 19:12 19:14 20:5,5 ought 23:10
43:21 16:17 56:2 21:6,13 22:10 52:25 53:2
52:25 million 41:1,2,3 never 7:11 25:24 22:12 23:22 outweigh 29:10
mind 43:7 48:18 52:12,20,21 22:5,6 26:10 outweighed 44:2
8:21,23 Minnesota 48:4 19:20 21:8 26:4 obstacle-type 3:7 53:7
30:10 minute 24:15 26:13 27:23 49:23 PA 6:15 10:13
44:1 minutes 53:5 30:15,17 31:13 obvious 51:17 54:10
56:9 misbranding 34:15,15 39:9 Obviously 11:6 page 2:2 12:13
32:9 37:9 molecule 14:10 47:21,23 51:11 offensive 30:1 pain 37:7
39:25 moment 43:7 53:17,21 54:2 oil 16:3 22:1,3,19 paradigmatic
50:22 money 20:1 49:3 54:13,24 22:20 15:23
25:18,20 motion 30:9 55:3 40:15 once 24:4 32:2 part 6:6 12:19
29:14 30:2 32:6 7:17 one-molecule particular 30:6
52:8 notably 28:20 operates 14:5 patient 41:24
N 2:1,1 3:1 notice 38:25 opinion 7:21 39:3 49:12
11:5 narrow 9:17 number 16:11 29:17 paying 43:15
16:16 narrower 23:15 42:11 52:17,20 opposite 47:17 payment 20:23
17:7 nearly 4:24 52:24 47:20 penalizes 15:8
21:9,14 necessarily oral 1:12 2:2,5,9 15:10,11,13
25:1,2 50:22 O 3:7 18:2 27:12 people 17:1 29:1
40:18 necessitated O 2:1 3:1 orally 35:21 29:8 42:11,21
48:12,23 21:15 object 54:16 order 16:22 43:1
21:9 24:9 26:24 21:18 24:13,15 52:3 53:1 54:12R 3:1
37:9 39:15 40:8,18 26:17 27:19,25 profile 3:14,16 raise 11:23,25
48:9 49:16 40:7 43:13,17 12:1 13:17 raised 9:8 55:3
23:2,3 29:6 49:17,18 50:4 properly 32:25 reaction 9:3
50:3,14 51:15 preemptive protection 16:24 43:3
points 52:5 53:10 premise 50:18 14:15 real 4:21 6:2
29:9 police 24:17 55:16 31:16 really 3:25 4:5
50:10 posed 27:17 10:17 25:24 pure 4:12 5:6,11 30:24 33:15
2:4,8,14 position 4:14,18 13:23 27:3,7 purely 7:3 reason 13:7
18:4 53:8 5:6,8 7:10 8:19 preserve 26:7 pursuant 44:18 18:18 20:15
3:4 23:13,20 40:5 pretrial 31:23 29:14,15 30:8 reasonable 8:14
postulated 28:25 principles 14:25 20:3
42:25 power 24:18 52:2 32:17,18 19:11 20:12 reduced 41:14
practitioner 8:14 problem 11:18 21:1,2,20 23:19 reference 39:11
preclude 28:20 49:6,7 questions 27:16 24:9
45:20 precluded 44:14 16:24 17:1 quintessential regime 5:11 6:13
preclusion 29:25 produce 37:7,8 16:7 6:13 11:15
15:1,23 17:22 18:9,9,16 28:4 quoting 53:14 43:16 45:12,22
43:20 19:21 21:4 26:3 27:3 30:9 55:6 shift 49:21
response 38:21 rulemaking 39:1 28:12 47:19,25 31:5 33:16 44:2
55:2 result 25:1 scientific 17:3 side 46:23,25
24:10 reviewed 38:1 S 2:1 3:1 scientifically significant 5:3
40:1,1,3 Riegel 17:21 safe 22:25 26:4,13 26:4,14
54:11 20:3 56:2 safer 8:22 21:7 scope 3:23 12:1 similar 11:22
47:24 46:19 see 24:21 32:8 situation 12:3
risk 32:4 33:7,13 salvaging 17:14 41:15 42:24 situations 41:15
31:15 41:21 42:4,5 10:21 14:9 17:9 seek 30:14 SJS/TEN 9:2
44:2 17:10 seeking 28:2 37:8 42:12
13:16,17 28:6 29:10,20 save 28:17 seeks 38:9 sold 53:2
17:10,10 31:20,22 34:1 saves 36:10,23 seen 52:20 Solicitor 1:18
55:22,24 36:6 40:21 saving 24:13 select 11:7,7 38:9
41:24 savings 15:2 sell 11:16 13:7 solution 43:2
55:21 risk/benefit 13:20,22,25 16:2,2,4,17 52:14
27:2 36:6 43:22 19:1,2 23:4,7,8 55:23,23,24 34:7
49:20 44:12 54:13 24:15,20,22 seller 51:21 sorry 48:8
road 46:24 47:1 25:1,9,10 26:12 selling 18:16 sort 8:9 31:8
8:4 14:6,8 27:10 29:4,19 41:10,11 43:7 48:16 8:8,21,24 9:7
17:22 40:24 41:8 48:7 says 12:11 14:18 September 38:5 9:13,18,21 10:5
24:23,25 53:4 56:5 15:16 20:11,22 serious 49:6 10:9 12:4 24:12
role 14:18 26:8 21:20 22:2,19 served 52:21 24:21 25:8,12
9:24 10:19 room 42:11,14 46:22 47:16 settled 51:25 sought 52:16
51:3 42:12,20 52:17 42:21 43:5 tighter 23:21
26:9 summary 55:3 terms 32:22 17:19 37:15,18
11:11 straight 43:14 Supreme 1:1,13 53:9 56:5 traditional 18:12
18:8,11 strategy 30:2 6:19 12:10 they'd 51:13 treating 3:20
strict 11:15 30:16 34:15 thing 4:20 5:3 treats 34:16
23:22 17:17,23 18:24 sure 4:19 5:15 20:18 25:10 trial 8:19,25 30:2
25:18 19:12 20:12 6:1,11 12:24 32:23 33:19 30:9 31:18 32:1
39:2 25:12 31:13 29:4,5 36:13,18 43:6 33:22 34:3
16:9 41:13,18,19,22 43:24 51:5 52:15 55:2
43:15 44:20 sustain 42:4 things 7:17 13:11 tried 28:13 48:20
11:8,10 51:16,20,24 sympathetic 11:21 15:4,6 21:13,14 23:20
15:7 56:1 42:25 19:4,10,14 21:1 28:14 37:25
struck 34:10 system 12:12 21:10,16,19 38:3 43:8 46:20
18:22 structure 19:1 19:8 43:24 22:7,16,20 23:3 46:21
20:7,10 study 37:21 23:10,17,18,20 truly 8:11 9:9
21:21 stuff 31:7 T 24:9 27:21 trust 43:24
23:21 subject 44:20 T 2:1,1 31:11 32:16 try 17:13 47:9
25:13 submit 16:5 28:1 tactics 30:4 35:4 38:6 39:21 trying 26:7 33:16
28:2 submitted 56:7,9 take 6:23 10:24 43:4,14 45:16 Tuesday 1:10
40:16 substantive 10:25 16:22 49:10,19 50:14 tweak 51:13
46:2 47:15,16 17:9 23:2,3,11 thinking 32:10 twelve 28:13,13
48:21,24 sued 27:7 38:4,23 40:4 32:10,25 two 15:20 19:10
50:1 suffer 42:25 42:12 thinks 44:19 19:18 35:14,16
51:2 sufficient 6:23 taken 9:24 10:19 third 8:15 41:15 55:14
9:4 44:2 37:23 Thomas 7:20 Tylenol 37:6
54:24 suggesting 11:21 talk 31:4 35:10 33:18 types 12:2 36:25
33:24
39:18 40:1,12 42:13 10 36:10
41:13,20,22 works 29:5 108 38:6
11:6 19:7
27:18,19
31:12
49:20 53:22 54:8,12 worse 13:1 12-142 1:5 3:4
40:13
53:21 55:6,12 wouldn't 29:17 12:15 56:8
34:3
53:12 Wyeth 4:23 5:17 19 1:10
51:1
18:3 46:23 2 52:17
50:4,11 16:17 18:12
2010 38:6
23:9 42:5,10 43:20
Y 21 12:13 52:10
39:8 43:6 50:12 52:21
55:14 ways 53:16
18:1,2,5 19:10 27 2:11
28:5 22:15 23:3,3,13
24:24 25:5 went 14:24 37:17
36:2 23:15,18 24:19 3
34:10,11 37:19,20 41:18
42:6 55:9
11:16 25:17 27:4,6
48:19 we're 4:12 5:11 4
18:10 Yeah 47:13
18:25 19:1,2 4 52:24
28:4 years 11:5 15:21
32:3,15 37:21 52:10
36:12,14 York 1:16,16
6:7,17 26:12,21 37:1 5
53:15
7:1 8:7,12 we've 16:12 5 14:23
10:12,15 23:17 48:12 50 15:21,21 30:9
13:21 whatsoever 51:3
19:2 30:19 56:3 $ 513 36:2
42:22
windshield 55:21 $1 13:23 514 36:2
24:9 26:16 32:7,7,14,19 withdrawal 46:3 $9 41:1 5496 55:5
39:3 32:24 33:6,9,10 withdrawing 17:2
wonderful 28:12 0 6
45:13,14
37:9
16:1 22:1,19
16:3 22:3,20
41:3
29:7
