IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 12-133
v. :
ITALIAN COLORS RESTAURANT, ET AL :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, February 27, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:31 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MICHAEL KELLOGG, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioners.
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice; for United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MICHAEL KELLOGG, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 24
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Respondents 44
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL KELLOGG, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:31 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is Case Number
12-133, American Express v. Italian Colors Restaurant.
Mr. Kellogg.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL KELLOGG
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. KELLOGG: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The court below thrice refused to enforce
the parties' arbitration agreement because he thought
that class procedures were necessary to vindicate the
plaintiff's Sherman Act claims.
That holding was reversible error for at
least three reasons. First, it has no basis in either
the FAA or the Sherman Act. Second, it creates an
unworkable threshold inquiry. And third, it is
unnecessary to any legitimate policy concerns raised by
the court below.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kellogg, suppose it
goes to arbitration as you think it should, and the
arbitrator says to the merchant, to prove your case, you
have to show the relevant market, you have to show that
American Express had market power, that it used that
power to the detriment of its competitors, and the way
these sections -- the way these tying cases have gone
is you get an expert. And I don't see that you can
prove it in -- in a new way.
I mean, the whole point of this is that the
expense to win one of these cases is enormous. And no
single person is not worth that person's while.
MR. KELLOGG: Well, three responses to that,
Your Honor. The first is, that it is up to the
arbitrator in the first instance to devise procedures to
deal with claims in an efficient and cost-effective
manner.
Second, to the extent that an expert report
is required that would cost a lot of money, we have
conceded below that the parties could share costs of
that expert just as they could share the costs of a
lawyer.
And, third, the alternative is to have an
inquiry upfront, that this Court has rejected in
Concepcion, that you cannot condition the enforcement of
an arbitration agreement on the availability of class
procedures.
It's up to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was the -- what was
the -- I missed that. The sharing of the costs, how
does that work? It's certainly not in the agreement,
not in the arbitration agreement, that -- that American
Express is going to pay for the expert for the other
side.
MR. KELLOGG: We acknowledge below that they
could share costs among multiple plaintiffs --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Oh. Oh.
MR. KELLOGG: -- before that. The sharing
of costs. Now, under the court below's regime --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And then what you would
you have, five, six different arbitrations going, and in
each of those five or six cases, you would have -- they
could share? They could share the million dollar cost
of this -- the experts?
MR. KELLOGG: They can share the cost of the
expert. And, of course, they get their attorneys' fees
back, plus reasonable statutory costs, plus potentially
treble damages.
The alternative, as the court below held, is
that the district court has to decide in the first
instance, I'm not going to send it to arbitration
because I think they need a class action. To make that
determination, he first has to do a Rule 23 analysis.
Would there even be a class certified in this case?
Only 20 percent of putative classes are
certified. And that's not an inquiry that the Court
should be making at the outset.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I -- I'm sorry, but I
don't think I got the answer to my question. Is -- the
arbitrator has now said we have to have an expert, and
the plaintiff says -- or the complainant says, I haven't
got the wherewithal, and if I have six friends who bring
individual arbitrations, that's not nearly enough.
So what happens then, the case ends, and
it's not possible --
MR. KELLOGG: As we said, they would be able
to share an expert between multiple plaintiffs, but
there is no guarantee in the law that every claim has a
procedural path to its effective vindication.
This Court held in Eisen, for example, even
though the Court acknowledged that it was a $70 claim,
it could only be brought as a class action, but the
plaintiff in that case said, I can't afford to do the
notice costs, and the Court said well, then, the class
is decertified because the plaintiff has to put up the
notice.
The whole point of arbitration of course is
that it expands the universe of claims that can be
brought efficiently and effectively for small consumers.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Kellogg, do you think
that if in your arbitration agreement you had a clause
which just said, I hereby agree not to bring any Sherman
Act claim against American Express, could -- could your
arbitration agreement do that?
MR. KELLOGG: Under this Court's decision in
Mitsubishi, I believe not.
JUSTICE KAGAN: It -- it couldn't,
right because we would say no, there has to be an -- an
opportunity for a vindication of statutory rights, is
that right?
MR. KELLOGG: Correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And -- and suppose that the
arbitration clause said something different. Suppose
that the arbitration clause said, I -- I hereby agree
that I will not present any economic evidence in an
antitrust action against American Express.
Could it do that?
MR. KELLOGG: I think that would be subject
to review under State unconscionability principles, and
would probably be struck down, Your Honor, just like any
other provision that essentially prevents --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, even putting aside
State unconscionability principles, wouldn't you think
that our Mitsubishi case and our Randolph case would
again come in and say, my gosh, this arbitration clause
prevents any effective vindication of the rights to
bring an antitrust suit.
Wouldn't you say that.
MR. KELLOGG: I -- I don't think Mitsubishi
can be read that broadly, Your Honor. To the contrary,
the whole point of Mitsubishi was that arbitration is an
effective forum for vindicating Federal statutory
rights. Mitsubishi --
JUSTICE KAGAN: So you think -- I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
MR. KELLOGG: I'm sorry. Mitsubishi dealt
with the very specific question of a waiver, a
substantive waiver of your rights, not with the
procedures to vindicate those rights.
As, for example, in the Vimar Seguros case,
where the Court said, well, you might have to go to
Japan, but we're not going to get into the business of
weighing the costs and benefits.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So I just want to make sure
I understand your answer, which is that you read
Mitsubishi and Randolph as so narrow that you would say
that the principle that they embody does not prevent
American Express from saying, you cannot produce -- you
cannot use any economic expert or any economic testimony
in an antitrust suit.
MR. KELLOGG: You know, I think the better
place to handle that would be State unconscionability
law. Whether the Court would want to expand the ports
of Mitsubishi to say that.
It's not clear to me what the statutory
justification for that would be, given that the Sherman
Act -- the question here, of course, concerns class
procedures. And given that the Sherman Act was passed
at a time when there were no class procedures, and given
that the Court in Concepcion --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, my -- my question is
not about class procedures, it's about allowing economic
evidence to help prove your claim. And you said, no
problem, even though it is, of course, true in the real
world that to prove a successful antitrust claim, you
need economic evidence.
MR. KELLOGG: Correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And you said that's
fine because you're going to read Mitsubishi and
Randolph in such a way that it allows an arbitration
clause to 100 percent effectively absolutely frustrate
your ability to bring a Sherman Act suit.
MR. KELLOGG: I have no doubt that such a
provision would be struck down. I think the proper way
to do that would be under State unconscionability law,
which Section 2 specifically preserves. But if the
Court felt the need to expand Mitsubishi in that narrow
respect, that would still not help the Respondents here,
who are saying that you should condition the enforcement
of the arbitration clause on the availability of class
procedures, which this Court held in Concepcion is
fundamentally inconsistent with the purposes of the FAA.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I think -- I think
what they are saying is something a little bit
different, which is that if you go -- if you accept my
premise that the arbitration clause could not say no
economic evidence, what the -- Respondents here are
saying is, well, now you have to give us the ability to
produce economic evidence and maybe that involves class
procedures, maybe it involves something else.
It could involve some other cost-sharing
mechanism. But if the arbitration clause works to
prevent us from sharing costs in such a way that we can
produce that evidence, then once again we have a problem
about completely frustrating the effect of the Sherman
Act.
MR. KELLOGG: Well, I think -- I think not
Your Honor. And I think we have to return to the fact that
the only provision at issue here was the class action
waiver. That was the only issue that they raised below.
It was the issue decided by the Court. It was the issue
on which this Court granted certiorari, and it's
directly contrary to this Court's decision in
Concepcion.
I have no doubt that if there were
provisions in a contract that essentially prevented a
plaintiff from raising a substantive claim or from
presenting evidence that they might have in support of
that claim, that it would be struck down under State
unconscionability principles or under Mitsubishi. But I
don't think we can expand Mitsubishi into a
free-floating inquiry for district courts into the costs
and benefits of each case.
They would have to sit down and say, well,
what evidence is going to be needed in this case and how
much evidence is going to be required. They would have
to say, what are the document production costs?
According to the court of appeals, they would even need
to say, what are your chances of winning? Because, say
it's going to cost a million dollars, but you only have
a 50 percent chance --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that the only thing
that the court of appeals said is, you have to pay
300,000 minimum for the expert, the most you can get in
treble damages is 5,000. It didn't go into all the
other things that you were saying. It said nobody in
his right mind will bring such a lawsuit to pay $300,000
to get $5,000.
MR. KELLOGG: And nobody in their right mind
in Eisen would -- would pay a million dollars in notice
costs to get $70 on --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess you could have said
the same thing under the Sherman Act before Rule 23
existed, right?
MR. KELLOGG: You could have.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Before there was such as
thing as class actions.
MR. KELLOGG: Under that position --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The same thing would have
been true. If, indeed, your claim was so small that you
can't claim -- can't pay an expert, you, as a practical
matter, don't bring the suit.
MR. KELLOGG: That was true. In fact,
Congress at the time of passing the Sherman Act
specifically considered adding class procedures and
declined to do so. For the first 4 decades of the
Sherman Act, there were no class procedures even left.
Even today, in court, as I noted, only
20 percent of cases actually get the class certified.
The whole point of arbitration, as I noted, is to expand
the scope of claims, small consumer claims, that can be
brought in an efficient and cost-effective manner.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think the nature of
their underlying -- their antitrust claim is relevant to
this? They are claiming that they were unlawfully
compelled to enter into the contract that they say, as a
practical matter, precludes them from raising the
antitrust issue. Does that -- does it matter?
MR. KELLOGG: Well, a couple of points on
that. They certainly weren't compelled to enter the
contract. Lots of merchants don't take American
Express. It was a voluntary choice on their part. But
more fundamentally, the only provision that they have
ever challenged in this case is the class action waiver.
They have not suggested below that there was any problem
with cost-sharing or other ways that they might deal
with the specific question how to present their case in
arbitration.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In the AT&T Mobility
case, the Court remarked that this was a -- that the
arbitration agreement had certain provisions that made
it easier for the consumer to use the arbitral forum.
Is there anything like that in this arbitration clause?
MR. KELLOGG: I'm sorry, I didn't -- I
didn't quite follow that, Your Honor. A provision in
the arbitration clause that makes it easier to -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, where not some other
consumer in another arbitration, not that sharing of the
costs, but wasn't AT&T Mobility going to pick up a good
part of the tab of the cost of the arbitration?
MR. KELLOGG: That's correct, there were
provisions in AT&T that the Court said would make small
value claims easier to process. I would note that in
Concepcion the Court said even if small value claims
could not be brought, it would still fundamentally
change the nature of arbitration to insist upon class
procedures. So I don't think that helps them in
distinguishing Concepcion.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: One of the ways I have
been thinking about this case is to think about
arbitration and the whole point of arbitration is to
have a procedure where you don't have costs, you have as
an arbitrator an antitrust expert or the best in the
class in the third year antitrust course in law school.
And they cite reports, and -- you know, it's
classic to have contractors sit in as arbitrators in
construction claims; just because it's cheaper and they
know -- so I was thinking that that's substantial
justification for your position. But your argument so
far seems to say that doesn't make any difference. Even
if they can't bring the suit in an economic way -- the
arbitration in an economic way, that that's irrelevant.
That's -- that's what I'm getting from your argument.
MR. KELLOGG: I did not mean to imply that,
Your Honor. The key point is that it's up to the
arbitrator in the first instance to find the most
efficient and cost effective way to resolve a particular
claim.
And it's not necessarily the case that
complicated -- that huge numbers of documents --
plaintiff said, we will need 5 million documents and we
will need a very, very expensive expert and they got an
affidavit from a very, very expensive expert saying,
this is what I would charge to do this.
The whole point of arbitration, of course,
is that its informality actually expands the universe of
claims, of small value claims that can be brought
effectively.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Kellogg, are you
suggesting that you can win an antitrust suit in
arbitration without presenting economic evidence of such
things as monopoly power, antitrust injury, damages?
How could somebody do that?
MR. KELLOGG: No, I acknowledge that they
would probably need a report in this case.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why? I mean, I could be
your arbitrator. I know exactly what I would do. I
would ask for five things, which will be admitted, and
one thing that's going to be difficult for them to
prove. I don't see why an expert in antitrust would
have to have this enormous report.
MR. KELLOGG: Well, I -- perhaps I --
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you want to concede I'm wrong? --
MR. KELLOGG: -- conceded too much to
Justice Kagan.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, maybe.
(Laughter.)
MR. KELLOGG: But in this case, if you look
at the complaint, the market definition that they're
seeking to establish is, if I might put it, somewhat
gerrymandered. It essentially consists --
JUSTICE BREYER: If you want to argue that
stuff, which I -- then I guess maybe they're right.
Maybe you do need experts on that. I don't know that we
want to get into this, but I just want to know if you
want to concede that there is no way to win this case in
arbitration unless they spend $300,000.
MR. KELLOGG: I did not mean to concede that
at all, Your Honor. The whole point of arbitration is
the informality and the speed of the procedures.
And in addition, to the extent that there
does need to be some sort of safety valve, of course
Congress can deal with that question. Congress recently
in the Dodd-Frank Act said, in certain circumstances
we're going to allow the Consumer Financial Protection
Board to determine whether class action waivers will be
permitted. But obviously there's nothing either in the
FAA or in the Sherman Act that would justify such an
inquiry here.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Kellogg, could I
go back to Justice Alito's point because I'm not sure I
quite understood your -- your answer to it.
Essentially, the claim here, right, is that this is a
party with a monopolistic power, such that -- and this
is just the Plaintiff's allegation, it may or may not be
true, but -- but they say that American Express is using
its market power to impose particular contract terms.
And they have a tying thing, but it could just as easily
be the case that American Express could be using its
economic power to impose terms essentially making
arbitration of antitrust claims impossible.
And why shouldn't we understand this problem
as connected to the very allegation that's being
brought? That -- you know, how is it, how is it going
to be possible in a case where there's a monopoly power
able -- able to impose contracts terms that -- that you
can create an arbitration clause, which essentially
prevents that from being challenged?
MR. KELLOGG: Well, there is a separate
issue below which the court did not reach about whether
the arbitration clause itself had been improperly
imposed. But the question before the Court has to do
with the class action waiver, which this Court in
Concepcion said there's no statutory basis for the
courts to preclude application of that waiver.
It's also -- would create a completely
unworkable inquiry at the outset of litigation in order
to determine whether to refer a case to arbitration in
the first place, and it's unnecessary because State law
unconscionability, can deal with contracts of adhesion
or unfair terms. The arbitrator in the first instance
can deal with how to cost effectively arbitrate the
claims in issue.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did -- did American
Express say, as Justice Breyer suggested, that, well we
will concede A, B, and C, so the only issue on which you
need proof is D? As I understood it, American Express
never took the position that it would -- it would
concede certain issues so that you could limit the
proof.
MR. KELLOGG: Well, Your Honor, we took the
position even in district court that they could pool
their resources --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, I'm not
talking about --
MR. KELLOGG: -- and share the cost of the
claim.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm not talking about
pooling with other single merchants bringing single
arbitrations. I'm asking whether American Express -- so
here's the complaint. It says, I have to prove relevant
markets separately. And did American Express take the
position, no, you don't have to prove all that. I think
that's what Justice Breyer was suggesting. There's only
one thing that's really in controversy, and the rest we
could stipulate.
But I didn't see anything in all the time
this case has been in the courts on American Express's
part to say that we are not going to demand the
full breadth of proof.
MR. KELLOGG: Well, that's -- that's not
actually correct. We did not say that we're going to
relieve them of their burden of proof on any issues, but
we did say, and the district court agreed with us, that
the arbitrators are capable of dealing with these claims
in an efficient and cost-effective way that would allow
the plaintiffs to bring them.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose that American
Express wouldn't have had to agree to arbitration at
all, right? They could have just said -- you know,
you -- you have a cause of action, you sue us in court,
right? They could say that, legally, couldn't they?
MR. KELLOGG: We could. And indeed --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And until Rule 23 was
adopted, that would mean -- you know, if you had a small
claim, tough luck, right? De minimis non curate lex.
If it's just negligible, it's impracticable for you to
bring a Federal claim. And that would not violate the
Sherman Act, would it?
MR. KELLOGG: Correct. That -- that very
issue was present in the Eisen case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm a little
confused about this business about pooling resources and
whether it's prohibited or permitted. Tell me exactly
what your position is on that.
MR. KELLOGG: Our position is that multiple
claimants in arbitration could share the costs of an
expert for preparation of a report.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it seems to
me -- I don't see how that concession is at all needed
by the other side. I mean, let's just say they have a
trade association or something. They -- they can all
get together and say we want to prepare an antitrust
expert report about what American Express is doing, and
they do, and then presumably, one of them can use it in
the arbitration. Any problem with that?
MR. KELLOGG: That -- no problem with that,
and that's absolutely right. But the plaintiffs below
said that wasn't good enough. They said, we need the
aggregate damages provided in a class action to make
this worthwhile because if we're just going to
essentially get costs --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But they could borrow the
money from a lawyer instead of from the trade
association, right?
MR. KELLOGG: Well, or from a hedge fund,
which increasingly finances litigation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, again, that
doesn't seem too difficult. You either have your trade
association or you have a big meeting of all them and
say we need to pay for this expert report and once we've
got it -- you know, I'm going to represent each of you
individually in individual arbitrations and I'm going to
win the first one, and then the others are going to fall
into place and they'll get a settlement from American
Express that's going to be -- satisfy their concerns.
MR. KELLOGG: Absolutely right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. And you have
no problem with that.
MR. KELLOGG: I have no problem with that.
And that's why this case is about the class action
waiver.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And, Mr. Kellogg --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, I'm
sorry. Just a follow-up one, briefly. Is the -- is
there collateral estoppel effect in the arbitration that
would be applied to subsequent --
MR. KELLOGG: That is unclear. I have tried
to look at that issue. You know, even in court,
non-mutual use of offensive collateral estoppel is
sometimes at the discretion of court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
MR. KELLOGG: I couldn't find anything in
the arbitration contract.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Just to be sure I understand
it, that you're saying that it does not violate the
confidentiality agreement of this clause to -- to all
get together and produce one report?
MR. KELLOGG: Correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay.
MR. KELLOGG: And if you look at actually
the affidavit put in by the plaintiff's expert and you
look at all the things he says I need to study in my
report, they're all issues in common. They're not
specific to a --
JUSTICE KAGAN: And did -- did you say that
below as well, that -- that the confidentiality clause
does not sweep so widely as to prevent this? Because
clearly, the court below thought that the
confidentiality clause did sweep so widely as to prevent
this.
MR. KELLOGG: The Second Circuit did say
that after we suggested that they could pool resources.
And we think that was an indication of the Court's,
shall we say, urgency to strike down the class action
waiver.
Nobody challenged the confidentiality
provision below.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So but you're saying the
confidentiality position would not apply in that
circumstance.
MR. KELLOGG: It would not apply. We took
that position below.
If I might reserve the remainder of my time?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Clement?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case is about the scope and continuing
existence of a doctrine that has been a feature of this
Court's cases and a necessary corollary of its
willingness to extend arbitration to Federal statutory
claims, the vindication of rights doctrine.
Ever since this Court 30 years ago, roughly,
got in the business of extending arbitration to Federal
statutory claims, it's used the effective vindication
doctrine as an assurance that Federal statutory claims
would not go unvindicated just because of the arbitral
forum.
And so, if you look at this Court's cases,
they stand for a simple proposition. When the choice is
arbitration or litigation, surely the FAA favors
arbitration and it's no threat to the underlying
statute because the underlying statutory claim is
vindicated in the arbitral forum.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't see -- I don't see
how a Federal statute is frustrated or is unable to be
vindicated if it's too expensive to bring a Federal
suit. That happened for years before there was such a
thing as class action in Federal courts. Nobody thought
the Sherman Act was a dead letter, that it couldn't be
vindicated.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, let me
take --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I don't see why it's
any different when you transpose the situation to the --
to the arbitration situation.
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Scalia, let me take on
the premise and then we get -- then also say where
really the concern comes in for the differential
treatment.
I would take issue with the premise, which
is, sure, there wasn't a Sherman Act -- there wasn't a
class action Rule 23 back when the Sherman Act was first
passed. But there were procedures in like joinder that
allowed for multiple claims to be litigated together;
there were not confidentiality agreements that came in
and limited your ability to share information from one
claim to another, and, of course, back in the good old
days, you didn't necessarily need a $300,000 expert to
bring a Sherman Act claim.
But what I think is the problem is when you
have a difference, and that is the assumption on which
this case comes to the Court, where you could vindicate
this claim in court because there are mechanisms to
share or shift costs and you cannot vindicate them in
the arbitration because of a combination of features of
the arbitration agreement that prevent any sharing or
shifting of costs.
JUSTICE BREYER: Before you get to that, I
have two questions. One is on the point you've just
made because I -- I agree, I understand it is fairly
well established, this doctrine, but I don't see quite
how it works.
Suppose there's a Tyler claim, a Truth in
Lending Act -- you know, something like that, and the
claim is a fairly -- it's worth about $10,000 or so.
And so the plaintiff says you violated the act, pay me
the $10,000. Now, he happens to come up with a theory
that is really far out; and the more far out the theory,
the harder it is to prove. And the harder it is to
prove, the more you need expensive experts.
And do we go case by case, saying -- you
know, where you have a really weird theory that's going to
require 17 experts and endless studies, you don't have
to have an arbitration claim, or you don't have to
follow it in this instance, but everybody else does.
Now -- now, is -- is that something, in
other words, we're supposed to look at case by case,
which would produce the odd result I suggested? Or do
we do it by categories? How does the doctrine work?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, you could do it by
category, and I suppose you could treat antitrust claims
differently, but I think there's an answer that's
already built into the Court's cases, which is Randolph,
and it's putting the burden on the plaintiff to make a
nonspeculative showing.
And in the case you've described, I would
think you would say, boy, that's speculative. I mean --
you know, you don't need that --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, what I'll do because I
work with my own hypothetical, I'll have a far-out case,
but yet not quite speculative. In other words, what I'm
trying to suggest is it's an odd doctrine that just
says, plaintiff by plaintiff, you can ignore an
arbitration clause if you can get a case that's
expensive enough, and there we are.
I haven't seen it work, and I haven't seen
enough to know how it does work. And I guess you
haven't either, but -- but I'm concerned about that.
MR. CLEMENT: Well -- well, don't be too
concerned, Justice Breyer. First of all, if you look at
the cases where the doctrine's been applied, it's
largely been in antitrust cases. The First Circuit
Kristian case is an antitrust case. And I don't think
that's an accident.
I mean, if you look at the Hovenkamp amicus
brief, it make clear that you just can't bring this type
of claim without an expert --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that doesn't seem right to
me. Now, Hovenkamp would be the person I would hire as
the arbitrator. So surely he does know -- or Phil
Arita -- a blessed memory. And they're under the
instruction to get this done cheap. Well, I think that
might be possible.
That might be possible because it's only the
question of damages that's tough here because if you
don't have the double -- there's only one monopoly
profit at the two levels, da, da, da, and we don't need
to go through that.
But I can think of a way of getting it done
pretty cheap. But regardless, your expert here didn't
talk about the cost of arbitration. He did use the word
once. But as I read pages 88 through 92, it seemed to
me he was talking about the cost of litigation, not the
cost of arbitration. And -- and I wouldn't proceed
necessarily with all those reports he does to impress to
the jury, or even the judge.
This is Phil Arita. You don't need to
impress him. And -- so, so, so -- hasn't the Second
Circuit looked, assuming your doctrine's in place, to
the wrong set of costs: The cost of litigation? Even
though they use the word "arbitration," that isn't what
your expert told me.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I mean, Justice Breyer,
none of us can know for sure what Professor Arita would
say. But we know what Professor Hovenkamp says, and he
says to bring these claims you need an expert. Now,
in --
JUSTICE BREYER: In arbitration or in court?
MR. CLEMENT: He says in arbitration or
anywhere. He assumes that anywhere you bring these
claims, you're going to need a market power expert.
JUSTICE BREYER: Does he take into account
the fact that the arbitrator can be him? And moreover,
could, in fact, work under an instruction keep these
costs down?
MR. CLEMENT: And what I would say,
Justice Breyer, is the place for that debate, if it were
going to take place, was in the district court. Because
we made our case, as Randolph requires -- and it was a
nonspeculative case. We said it's going to cost
$300,000 to $500,000 or even a million dollars to get a
market power expert. They didn't come back and say, no,
in arbitration, I think you can do it for 50,000.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, that isn't the point.
If I were doing this offhand, I would say everything is
conceded, but for one thing: Since there is no double
monopoly power, there is only one monopoly power at the
two levels which can be exercised, the only way the
person is damaged is if in fact you've raised entry
barriers. So you'd say to the plaintiff, how are you
going to prove that? And you'd read it and submit a
report.
Now, I'm not saying this is the right way to
go about it. All I'm saying is it's hard for me to
figure out on the basis of that affidavit, which talks
about courts, why this has to be so expensive. So what
do I do?
MR. CLEMENT: I think what you do is you,
with all due respect, fault Petitioners for that.
Because we put in that report -- they could have
criticized it exactly the way you are and we'd have a
different case. But they argued before the district
court and the court of appeals just what they argued to
you, Justice Kennedy, it doesn't matter if you can do
it.
It doesn't matter if it's too expensive. We
don't think this doctrine exists, or we don't think it
extends to this kind of cases, and having put their --
their money on that extreme position that the effective
vindication doctrine doesn't exist, I think it's --
JUSTICE BREYER: One other thing which I
didn't understand, and that's why I am asking. What
they chose as the remedy here was sever the arbitration
clause if you want, it seemed to be, and go to court.
All right.
Now, I don't know where that power comes
from. So if you were going to improve this contract in
the direction that you would like, why couldn't you
sever the part about the confidentiality, or why
couldn't you require -- you have some awfully big
merchants.
Like, I don't know -- probably, you have
maybe Costco, maybe Walmart, maybe -- you know, these
people are not without money. Though your client,
may be. But -- go get these contributions. Go for --
there are many ways you can treat this particular set of
words in the arbitration clause, short of severing it
entirely.
And -- and what about that? What's your
view on that? What do you think?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, our -- our view on that
is -- you know, the Court is balancing two things here.
It's trying to apply the effective vindication doctrine,
but it's also trying to honor the principle of this
Court that you treat the parties to the bargain that
they have committed.
Now, if they would have come in and said in
the district court -- which they didn't -- that we'll
get rid of the confidentiality -- they said you could
share costs, but they -- you know, the confidentiality
was the problem.
It was the problem the Second Circuit saw.
You can look at 92a of the Petition appendix. And they
didn't petition on that issue, so I don't know how they
get to say, well, the Second Circuit was wrong about
that, but isn't that a shame. I mean, if they thought
that was wrong, they should have petitioned.
And that just shows you, these issues were
in front of the Court. Now --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you -- I don't
understand. You think they could have appealed on
that -- on that issue?
MR. CLEMENT: Sure. I don't think this
Court would have necessarily granted it because it's not
very cert-worthy. But it's also -- I don't know how
they can keep that issue in their back pocket and then
say well, we got cert -- we got cert on the cert-worthy
issue and now we have this factual finding where the
Second Circuit held that the confidentiality agreement
precludes the sharing of this information from
arbitration to arbitration.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let me ask you. Your
effective vindicability principle depends upon a
comparison with what you could do in Court.
MR. CLEMENT: It doesn't, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't?
MR. CLEMENT: It doesn't. It's a simple
comparison of the necessary unrecoupable costs of
bringing the claim in arbitration compared to the
maximum recovery.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but if you couldn't do
it -- if you couldn't do it either -- even if there had
been no arbitration agreement, how could the arbitration
agreement be -- be harming you? I don't understand
that.
MR. CLEMENT: If you have -- if you have a
claim, Justice Scalia, that can't be vindicated in
arbitration or in court, that claim's not going --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or in court.
MR. CLEMENT: Right. But that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You have to compare it to
court.
MR. CLEMENT: No you don't.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you couldn't do it in
court, you don't have to be able to do it in
arbitration, it seems to me.
MR. CLEMENT: With respect, Justice Scalia,
you don't have to make that comparison part of the
test because the cases that can't be vindicated in
either place won't show up at the courthouse door. So
once you show up at the courthouse door, you've got a
plaintiff's lawyer. They may be crazy, but you have a
plaintiff's lawyer that thinks I can do this in the
litigation system.
And so at that point, the only question is,
all right, I think I can do this in the litigation
system. If the only thing that's precluding me from
doing it is this arbitration agreement -- so this
arbitration agreement is not operating as a real
arbitration agreement, it's operating as a de facto
as-applied exculpatory clause. If they can make that
showing, then -- and the option is not arbitration or
litigation --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. No. It's saying that
there's an alternate mechanism for resolving disputes.
It's called arbitration. And arbitration does not
necessarily or even as a matter of fact often as a
practical matter involve the costs and the formalities of
litigation.
MR. CLEMENT: And -- and God bless it,
Justice Kennedy -- when it does that, and it can
effectively address claims that can't be addressed in
the litigation system, that's exactly what we want
arbitration to do.
But there are some cases where the
arbitration system -- not generally -- I mean, if you
have the kind of pro-vindication agreement you had in
Concepcion, or that Sovereign Bank has that we mentioned
in our brief, then you can vindicate these claims in
arbitration.
But when you have a specific arbitration
agreement that has a variety of clauses that don't allow
for any mechanism to shift or share the costs, so you
know it's not litigation versus arbitration, of course
we'll go with arbitration. It's litigation or nothing.
In those circumstances, this Court has always said that
we'll have --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I mean maybe it is
litigation if you need a $300,000 report. But why do
you need a $300,000 report? That's what we're asking.
And I just can't -- it seems to me that I have to engage
in speculation about the limits of arbitration in order
to resolve in your favor.
Now, to be sure, they took a -- a more rigid
view below, so we don't have much of a record.
MR. CLEMENT: Well -- and, Justice Kennedy,
I would say that -- I mean, shame on them, with all due
respect. Because there was an opportunity in the
district court to make an apples to apples comparison,
and they could have said, no, $300,000 is way off; you
can do this for $25,000, and here's how. But they
didn't make that showing. They said -- you know, we
don't think the effective vindication doctrine applies
in these circumstances at all.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a little much
to expect them to come back and say, oh no, no, no, you
don't have to prove all this. The only thing you've got
to prove is it's going to cost you $25,000. That's an
odd position to put them in.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I don't think it is,
Mr. Chief Justice. I -- they don't have to say -- you
know -- they don't have to tell us how to prove our case
to the lowest possible price. They just have to show us
something that will allow us to vindicate our claim --
JUSTICE BREYER: There is no authority that
I could find for the prop -- I mean, if in fact it costs
you $10,000 to buy the arbitrator -- system -- you know,
you buy the system --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Sorry. But I mean -- you
know, hire -- whatever it is, if those are obstacles,
it's pretty well established, I think, that that
arbitration is not something that you can use to
vindicate the Federal claim. And the part that's
bothering me about this, though, is that those aren't
obstacles.
It's just you brought a very expensive
claim. And the real problem here is the reason they can
go into court is they can get a class action in court.
And then this Court has said, you can't get the class
action in arbitration. There we have it.
So -- so the -- the question in my mind is,
well, is there a way that some of the beneficial aspects
of class action can be used in an arbitration that does
not formally have a class action? And there it seems
yours is a good case because a lot of them can. You
say, well, the one part that can't is getting this
private information.
So maybe we should send it back and say,
well, why do you need the private information? On a
good theory of antitrust, you're going to show that the
price of the Tide product was higher than what it would
have been had the entry barriers not been raised from
the Tide. That's a general entry question, which I
don't think you need private information from them to
answer. But that's -- and now we're really into the
depths of the merits.
So I thought of sending it back and saying,
let's -- let them explore this kind of thing about other
ways of trying to get some of these advantages of class
action into your -- you're going to say I'm too far out
on this.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, what I'm going to say,
Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They could write a treatise
on it, maybe.
MR. CLEMENT: But -- but what I was going to
say is look, I mean, take a step back. You know, one of
the great things about the effective vindication
doctrine is it gets the incentives rights. It gives
companies incentives to draft clauses that will allow
for the maximum vindication of Federal rights.
And so there are lots of clauses out there
that would allow for even this claim because they have
cost shifting of expert costs or they don't have
confidentiality agreements or they'll waive the
confidentiality -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose this class could
not -- could not qualify for certification in Federal
court. Are you asserting that there is some arbitration
principle that -- that allows you to create some new
class?
MR. CLEMENT: No, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you have to make -- you
have to make a comparison to what can be done in Federal
court, don't you?
MR. CLEMENT: No, it's not part of the
inquiry because --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It isn't. So that any
class that the arbitrator thinks is okay is required.
MR. CLEMENT: No, it's just that if by virtue
of showing up in court and saying, I want to litigate my
claim, the lawyer has already made a judgment that I can
vindicate it in Federal court.
Maybe it's because of class action, maybe
it's just because of joinder, maybe it's because there's
no confidentiality rule in the Federal proceedings, so
it can bring a lot of these claims, maybe it's a
difference in collateral estoppel. Whatever it is, that
lawyer has already spoken that I can make this claim
work in litigation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But he wants a class. What
he wants in the arbitration is the ability to sue on behalf
of a class, doesn't he?
MR. CLEMENT: That might be what they most
want, but they don't get that. They just get some way
to vindicate the claim. And if this had a cost-shifting
provisions that the expert costs were shifted, that
would get the job done, that's the Sovereign Bank
example we talked about in our brief. There are more
than one way. We're not trying to get a guarantee for
class treatment in one form or the other.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is -- is that what you
asked for below, anything, class action or compensation
or whatever?
MR. CLEMENT: We -- in fairness, we focused
below on the class action because that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what I thought.
That's what I thought this case was about. What's the
question presented anyway?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, don't just look at the
question presented, look at the opinion below. And look
at 91(A) and 92(A). The questions that the Second
Circuit addressed --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Whether -- whether the
Federal Arbitration Act permits courts invoking the
Federal substantive law of arbitrability to invalidate
arbitration agreements on the ground that they do not
permit class arbitration of a Federal law claim.
Now, you're saying that -- that whether they
permit class arbitration is not going to be decided on
the basis of whether you could certify a class under
Rule 23, but just what?
And -- and -- and if it does depend on that,
what is the Court supposed to do? Before it can -- it
can give you your claim, it has to -- it has to decide
whether this class would be certifiable, wouldn't it?
My goodness --
MR. CLEMENT: No, it would not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- this is a very
complicated procedure.
MR. CLEMENT: -- Your Honor. You just have
to answer the question, is there a problem with the
arbitration, is there something with this specific
agreement that precludes this claim going forward. Here
it's a combination of no class arbitration, no way to
shift costs because they don't provide cost shifting,
and no way to share costs because of the
confidentiality.
Whatever they put in the question presented,
they can't make the Second Circuit's holding that the
confidentiality provision blocks the sharing of
information to go away. They're stuck with that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is -- tell me
how the no -- no sharing of information and
confidentiality, how does that work again? You can't,
if you're a trade association, get together and say, I
think we should have a study of Amex's whatever. And
then you put together the study, and then one of your
members says -- you know, that's a good study, I'm going
to go -- go to arbitration. They can't do that?
MR. CLEMENT: They -- they could do that
much, Mr. Chief Justice. The critical point at which
the confidentiality provision creates a practical
problem is you're trying to get all the information,
you're trying to get a single expert report in order to
share the costs, and you're trying to do not just the
market survey, but do a damage calculation, have a
damage formula.
Because when you have a market like this
where the allegations are they've distorted the market,
so we can't rely on the market price, we need to know
the sales volumes of all the individual stores. Their
confidentiality agreement protects that and doesn't
allow that to be shared. That's not that unusual.
This Court in Nielsen and Concepcion both
remarked that one of the features of arbitration is you
generally keep it confidential. And that's something
that the Second Circuit said because of that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what if you
do -- I mean, what if you do it, is that just part of
your trade associations, they think this is -- you know,
they're not talking about particular arbitration or
anything. They just prepare a -- a report, and then
once you see the report, you say, my gosh, I had no
idea, and then you file your claim for arbitration.
MR. CLEMENT: With all due respect, Mr. --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems to me my
point is simply that there's no sharing, confidence, it
seems like an awfully amorphous provision that would be
very difficult to enforce.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I mean, I don't think
it's that difficult, Mr. Chief Justice. Certainly, cost
shifting is not difficult, and there are other ways to
solve this problem. But the Amex agreement forecloses
all of them.
And the question for this Court is, do you
say, well, tough or do you say what you've said every
time you've confronted this problem, the effective
vindication doctrine provides the solution.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll afford you
some rebuttal time.
Mr. Stewart?
Oh, no, we won't.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: You should have said, "I
accept," very quickly.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just being generous
this morning.
Mr. Stewart?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MR. MALCOLM L. STEWART,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING RESPONDENTS
MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
At the beginning of the argument,
Justice Kagan asked whether a pure exculpatory clause, a
provision in a contract that simply said, we promise not
to seek relief under the arbitration -- under the
antitrust clause period would be enforceable, and
Mr. Kellogg replied that it would not.
And I think the unenforceability of such a
provision would not depend on any analysis of what was
likely to happen if the suit was brought in court; that
is, a pure exculpatory clause could be set aside and the
plaintiff could still lose for any number of reasons.
The plaintiff could be denied class certification and
decide it's uneconomical to proceed with an individual
suit.
He could lose on a threshold ground like the
statute of limitations or he could lose on the merits.
But the unenforceability of the pure exculpatory clause
wouldn't require the Court to make a comparison between
being kicked out of court on that basis and what would
likely happen if the suit were able to be brought.
And we would submit that the same mode of
analysis applies when the arbitration agreement can be
shown to have the same practical effect as an
exculpatory clause; that is, if it is the case that
given the amount of money at stake, the arbitration
procedure specified in the contract and the modes of
proof that would be necessary in arbitration, if it can
be shown persuasively by the plaintiff who bears the
burden that no reasonable plaintiff would find it
economically feasible to proceed, then the arbitration
agreement can't be enforced --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would that be the case even
before Rule 23 was -- was adopted?
MR. STEWART: Yes. And it would be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even though you couldn't
vindicate it in the Federal courts, you must be able to
vindicate it in arbitration?
MR. STEWART: The question would be whether
the arbitration agreement could be enforced.
And before Rule 23 was adopted, if there had
been a pure exculpatory clause, it would have been
unenforceable and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not even talking about
a pure exculpatory clause. I'm talking about the mere
fact that as a practical matter, it's impossible to
bring it in arbitration. In a context in which it is
also impossible to bring it in Federal court.
And you would say, still, you must permit it
to be brought in arbitration, even though it can't be
brought in Federal court.
MR. STEWART: In the same way that we would
say a pure exculpatory clause would be invalid and
unenforceable, even if it were clear from the
plaintiff's complaint that he was not entitled to relief
on the merits.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And, Mr. -- Mr. Stewart,
isn't that also consistent with the way the Court
addressed the issue in Randolph? Because what the Court
said there was it might be that these arbitration fees
are prohibitive. And if those arbitration fees are
prohibitive, then this doctrine kicks in.
And it didn't look to say, well, let's
compare how these fees relate to whatever costs you
would wind up with in litigation. It just said, if the
arbitration fees are prohibitive, in such -- in such a
manner that it prevents you from vindicating your
Federal claim in arbitration, that's enough.
MR. STEWART: That's correct. And I would
make two real world --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what are the
arbitration fees? It's not -- not -- not lawyers' fees.
Do they include lawyers' fees?
MR. STEWART: No, the attorneys' fees would
be recoupable under the substantive law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. So I don't know,
what do you --
JUSTICE BREYER: Expert costs.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So what are you comparing
it to in court litigation?
MR. STEWART: We are not really --
JUSTICE SCALIA: A filing fee?
MR. STEWART: No, I think we are not
comparing it to anything. That is, our -- our position
is in determining whether the arbitration agreement has
the same practical effect as an exculpatory clause, we
asked could any reasonable plaintiff proceed under the
terms and conditions that are set up? And if the answer
to that is no, then the arbitration agreement is
unenforceable.
Now, I would make two real-world points, one
of which Mr. Clement has already alluded to. The first
is the only cases that are going to wind up in court are
those in which the plaintiff at least believes that it
would be feasible to vindicate the claim in court, and
so they are likely to be those in which there is at least a
potential difference between the outcome in court and
the outcome in arbitration.
The other is, even if a plaintiff believes
wrongly that he can proceed in court through a class
action mechanism and class action -- class certification
is denied under Rule 23, presumably at that point the
plaintiff is going to give up and the outcome at the end
of the day is going to be the same as if the arbitration
agreement had been enforced.
JUSTICE BREYER: This is exactly -- I found
no authority for the proposition that what hinders --
plenty of authority, you can't make the person go to
arbitration if the fees involved are too high because
he's blocked.
But you're quite an advance over that. You
are saying the thing that keeps him out is his own
theory of wrong, which will involve hiring a lot of
experts and others.
Now, once that's adopted, it seems to me in
practice we have reversed in many, many cases the
proposition that you can, in fact, require Federal
causes of action to be arbitrated because all you have
to do to get -- out of the arbitration is to allege a
theory of your case which is hard and complicated to
prove. Now, you are back in court.
Now, that's a significant erosion, it seems
to me. So I want to know if you have any standard
there, if we're just supposed to accept that, if in fact
you are trying to reverse in practice what was the
holding that you can arbitrate these Federal causes of
action. What is going on here?
And an addendum to that is if you are going
to convince me, which you might, that, well, that's
okay, do it, do it, do it, is it a possible remedy to
monkey with the arbitration clause and provide for a
sharing of costs, say if you win, the loser will pay the
expert fees, which is of course a much more
pro-arbitration way than just throwing it out entirely?
MR. STEWART: Well, let me start --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's a long question, but
do you see what I'm driving at?
MR. STEWART: Let me start with your last
question and work backwards. It is possible and it
sometimes has happened in the lower court cases that a
plaintiff will come into court and say, I can't proceed
through arbitration because the arbitral fees are too
high in relation to my likely recovery.
And the defendant at that point will say, we
offer to waive the fees or we offer to pay your share of
the arbitral fees, and a court will be persuaded that,
given that consensual modification of the contract, it
is feasible for the claims to be brought in arbitration
and the plaintiff is kicked out of court.
Now, this is consensual. This is something
that the court has -- that the court has done at the
company's behest, and it would be different question of
whether the court could do that over the company's
objection. But another thing that the company could do
is put in a severability clause in the contract that
would specify what results should obtain if one
provision of the contract were held to be invalid.
I guess another thing I would say in
response to your question is we do have one data point,
the First Circuit's decision in Kristian, which I
believe Mr. Clement referred to, in 2006, which
essentially held on facts similar to these that the
arbitration clause as written was not enforceable
because the cost of the expert fees in an antitrust case
would dwarf any potential recovery, and we haven't seen
the floodgates opened.
The last thing I would say is if this is the
concern, Petitioner's proposed rule really doesn't match
the argument in its favor. That is, Petitioner is not
just arguing for a rule that would cover cases in which
the relevant costs are those of experts or similar
authorities.
Petitioner's rule would say even if the
contract provides for a non-recoupable $500 filing fee
and the amount of the claim at stake is $200, so it's
absolutely apparent on the face of the contract that the
claim can't be brought, the agreement is still
enforceable and the plaintiff is deprived of his day in
court.
The other thing I would say about
Petitioner's argument is the challenge to the Second
Circuit's decision has really changed drastically since
the cert petition was filed; that is, the Second Circuit
took it as essentially undisputed that the costs of the
expert report would render it economically infeasible to
proceed in arbitration, and it took the further step of
saying, therefore the arbitration agreement is
unenforceable.
Now, the cert petition challenged only the
"therefore" part of the Second Circuit's analysis.
There wasn't a suggestion that the Petitioner intended
to challenge the antecedent determination that these
claims couldn't feasibly have been brought in
individualized proceedings.
And I think as Paul -- Mr. Clement said, the
likely reason is that wouldn't look like a cert-worthy
issue. That sort of fact-specific inquiry wouldn't seem
like a wise use of this Court's resources.
So having gotten cert granted on the
important legal question whether the inefficacy of
arbitration procedures is a basis for invalidating the
agreement, Petitioners are now spending a great deal of
time arguing that it would in fact have been feasible to
pursue these claims through individualized arbitration.
And one thing we would say in response, as
Mr. Clement said --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. They didn't get
cert granted on that question at all. As I pointed out
before, they got it granted on whether the mere fact
that the arbitration agreement did not permit class
arbitration renders it invalid.
MR. STEWART: But they did get cert --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what I thought the
question before us.
MR. STEWART: They got cert granted on that
question, but neither the question as so framed or the
body of the cert petition suggests any challenge to the
Second Circuit's factual determination that these claims
could not feasibly have been brought in individualized
arbitration.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Stewart, is it -- the
arbitration agreement is a one-on-one, right? They
can't, or can they have -- they have the 12 similarly
situated people, not a class, join in the arbitration,
or is it one on one?
MR. STEWART: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which is correct?
MR. STEWART: It is correct that it has to
be one on one, that the agreement requires only --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And even in the days
before we had Rule 23, when you were bringing a suit in
Federal court you could have multiple plaintiffs joining
together.
MR. STEWART: That's correct. The agreement
prohibits even the types of joinder mechanisms that
might have been available when the Sherman Act was
passed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Kellogg, you have rebuttal time, 6
minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL KELLOGG
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS
MR. KELLOGG: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Let me focus on what the court of appeals
held below. At 3a of our appendix, the court said.
"The only issue before us is the narrow question of
whether the class action waiver provision contained in
the contract between the parties should be enforced."
That is the question on which we sought certiorari.
That is the question that the Court granted.
It is Respondents who have now tried to
rewrite that question by talking about other possible
ways of vindicating their rights that they claim are
foreclosed, that they claim wrongly are foreclosed by
the contract at issue here.
This is not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, do we have a factual
record? Suppose, I think, based in substantial part on
Justice Breyer's suggestion, that we could have an
arbitration that's effective and we could have a trade
association prepare a report, and we could do one
arbitration and then see if it applies to others.
Suppose I think that.
Do I -- doesn't that bear on this question?
And if it does, I don't have a factual record to support
my assumptions.
MR. KELLOGG: I don't think you need a
factual record because as Respondents acknowledge the
burden is on them to show that the arbitration-specific
costs would preclude them from pursuing their claim.
And they have not done that by putting in an
affidavit saying, well, in litigation we have to do --
get 5 million documents and spend $300,000 processing
them and get an expert report which could cost up to $1
million.
JUSTICE BREYER: But suppose we answer --
MR. KELLOGG: That is not --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- the question -- the
answer is yes, a class action waiver can be enforced.
MR. KELLOGG: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, what are the
circumstances here? The record leaves us uncertain, we
remand it for further consideration of what they are.
MR. KELLOGG: Well, the court could
certainly --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because that isn't the
issue they decided, whether it could be enforced. They
decided whether you can -- whether the whole arbitration
agreement could be enforced.
MR. KELLOGG: The holding of the court of
appeals is the arbitration agreement cannot be enforced
because it has a class action waiver. That is clearly
reversible error. I don't even hear --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was because -- it was
because Judge Pooler said, "I have been instructed by
the Supreme Court that I may not require class
arbitration." That's -- and she was bound by our
decision that a court can't order class arbitration,
isn't that correct? So that was not an option for her.
MR. KELLOGG: But the Court also in
Concepcion said you can condition the enforceability of
an arbitration agreement on the availability of class
procedures, and that is what the Court below violated.
So the decision below has to be vacated.
I do not think you should remand for a
detailed factual showing on just how they are going to
vindicate their rights in arbitration because most of
those questions, what evidence is required, et cetera,
are for the arbitrator in the first instance.
That said, we made -- we did respond to
their showing below. We did not put in a dueling
affidavit saying, no, in litigation, it only requires a
$200,000 report or a $25,000 report. We said, that's
irrelevant because we're talking about
arbitration-specific costs. And there's lots of ways
that they can proceed with their claims.
One is by sharing the costs of an expert,
and they specifically rejected that. They said, even if
we could shift the costs of the experts to the other
side, that wouldn't be good enough because then all we'd
be doing is expending much money to get it back.
We need aggregated damages of the sort
available in class suit --
JUSTICE BREYER: Or you have to do without.
I -- you just said what -- I thought that the expert
talked about litigation costs, not about arbitration
costs.
So how is that handled?
MR. KELLOGG: That is how I read -- that is
how I read the report. And certainly with an expert
arbitrator --
JUSTICE BREYER: You said you waived that
point, whatever -- however it is. You waived it. Never
raised it. The Court of Appeals took it as if it were
arbitration costs.
MR. KELLOGG: No, we raised -- we've argued
that all along. In fact, I can refer the Court to page
27 of our -- the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Second Circuit never
said anything about, this is what it would cost in
court. The court -- the Court of Appeals said, this is
what it would cost to prove this kind of tying, right?
It didn't say one word distinguishing what
it would cost in litigation from what it would cost in
arbitration. It was simply what it was going to cost.
MR. KELLOGG: We did, in fact. But let me
answer Justice Breyer's question first, at page 27 of
our Court of Appeals --
JUSTICE BREYER: I believe you.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'd like to hear the
answer, if nobody --
(Laughter.)
MR. KELLOGG: We specifically said, "The
declaration of merchant's expert is similarly
un-illuminating, as he too studiously avoided projecting
the costs for an individual arbitration of these
disputes."
So we did argue against that point. This is
not an exculpatory clause. The Court has made clear
that a class action waiver is not an exculpatory clause.
This Court has also made clear that you cannot assume
that the arbitral forum will be inadequate to vindicate
Federal substantive rights.
And they cannot now change the nature of the
question presented by arguing that well, there should
have been another provision to allow -- specifically
allow cost-sharing, or specifically allow cost-shifting.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Kellogg, it does
seem like both of the parties have changed what they're
saying a bit. And -- you know, if this case as
presented to us was presented to us in the first
instance that the premise was that if you go into
arbitration, it would not provide an effective way to
vindicate the claim.
And, now, people are saying different things
about the confidentiality clause, and people may be
saying different things about the necessity of an
expert. It suggests that the premise on which this case
was presented to us was not quite right.
MR. KELLOGG: Well, I -- I don't believe
that's the case. The premise on which the Court
accepted the case, presumably, is that the decision
below which conditioned the enforceability of the
arbitration agreement on a -- on the availability of
class procedures, was wrong under Concepcion.
Therefore -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:33 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
40:1 affidavit 15:12 23:1 19:17 20:2 21:3,24 55:8 57:4 57:12
45:10 46:1 afford 6:17 43:25 Amex's 42:6 6:4 14:17 15:5 awfully 31:13 43:13
aggregated 57:11 28:3 44:13 29:16 36:25 39:13
51:15
analysis 5:22 44:23 19:24 back 5:16 17:10
5:1 6:25 17:11 27:5 38:4 57:25 38:6,16 49:10
13:20 22:21 41:16 48:2 55:15 arguing 51:9 52:17 57:10
33:2,16,17 55:18 58:11,15 59:4 backwards 50:3
35:10 antecedent 52:6 argument 1:12 2:2,5 balancing 31:25
55:7
41:18 42:22 antitrust 7:15 8:1,24 2:8,12 3:6 14:23 Bank 35:11 40:7
45:12,21 9:14 13:3,7 14:17 15:2 24:1 44:11,16 bargain 32:3
47:24 48:3,19 14:18 15:19,21 51:8,20 54:5 barriers 30:8 38:1
10:20 12:7,18
52:1,16,24 16:4 17:20 21:2 Arita 28:9,25 29:7 based 54:22
17:3,7 20:13
56:3,5 27:4,25 28:1 37:24 aside 7:21 44:25 basis 3:15 18:8
59:23 44:20 51:3 asked 40:12 44:17 30:13 41:5 45:9
40:24
41:1 apparent 51:15 asking 19:9 31:5 bear 55:3
10:23 13:13
18:7 20:5
22:5 23:14
37:12,14
38:9
40:12,15
49:7,16
55:18 56:6
36:22 38:19 application 18:9 assuming 29:2 believes 48:8,13
42:23 59:5,6 applied 22:11 27:24 assumption 25:24 below's 5:8
applies 36:11 45:12 assumptions 55:5 beneficial 37:16
46:23
49:15 authority 36:23 blessed 28:9
7:2,15 8:22 arbitrations 5:10 6:7 availability 4:20 blocks 41:25
49:4
18:19 17:18,24 18:12 changed 51:21 59:8 24:9,12,13 25:17 35:3 36:4,18 38:11
26:6 27:12 19:17 20:15 22:5 charge 15:13 27:4 29:9,14 35:5 38:15 39:6,10,14
28:6 29:6,11 24:5 25:25 26:19 cheap 28:10,18 35:12 39:21 50:12 40:3,14,19 41:12
30:2 31:4 26:19,25,25 27:9 cheaper 14:21 52:7,18 53:7 57:5 41:15 42:10 43:10
37:3 47:17 27:13,17 28:1,1 Chief 3:3,8 20:16,23 claim's 33:21 43:15 48:6 50:25
49:25 55:15 29:22,23 30:20 21:17 22:2,8,16 class 3:12 4:20 5:21 52:9,20
57:13 36:20 37:19 40:17 23:24 24:3 36:13 5:23 6:16,18 9:6,8 client 31:17
58:13 45:14,22 49:9 51:3 36:19 42:2,11 43:3 9:11 10:4,13,23 collateral 22:10,14
60:3 44:14 53:16 54:2,7 13:13 14:10,18 Colors 1:6 3:4
12:23 24:7,16 27:6 choice 13:11 24:17 22:5 23:14 25:1,15 41:19
12:1,16 14:25 50:4 51:9 29:2 32:10,13 33:2 39:25 40:2,10,12 50:5
24:24 categories 27:2 40:22 43:2 51:22 40:15 41:2,4,5,10 comes 25:11,25
28:4 29:9,13 category 27:4 58:3 41:19 45:2 48:14 31:9
46:11,12 cause 20:5 Circuit's 41:24 48:15,15 52:24 committed 32:4
cert 32:25,25 51:22 53:7 56:6,10,12,16 companies 38:19
14:9 15:16 certain 13:20 17:3 35:19 36:12 55:21 classic 14:20 compare 33:24 47:3
37:10 44:24 18:23 cite 14:19 clause 6:25 7:12,13 compared 33:12
46:14,15 certainly 4:25 13:9 claim 6:12,15 7:2 7:24 9:20 10:4,10 comparing 47:18,23
51:16 52:7 43:16 55:24 57:19 9:12,14 11:6,8 10:16 13:22,25 comparison 33:7,11
certifiable 41:10 12:14,15 13:3 15:7 18:1,5 22:21 23:6 34:6 36:7 39:8
55:8 certified 5:23,25 25:22 26:1,11,13 45:7,14 46:6,9,17 compensation 40:12
certify 41:5 33:20 36:22 37:7 51:2 58:23,24 complainant 6:5
39:23 40:5 41:2,9 clauses 35:15 38:19 19:10 46:19
49:9 contract 11:5 13:5 59:6 decades 12:20 distinguishing 14:12
31:10 44:18 45:16 60:1 decide 5:19 41:9 distorted 42:19
51:15 54:12,19 course 5:15 6:21 9:6 decided 10:25 41:4 19:1,23 29:21
11:3 14:8,12 contracts 17:25 17:1 25:20 35:17 decision 7:4 11:2 doctrine 24:6,9,13
35:11 42:24 18:14 49:22 50:24 51:21 56:12 26:9 27:2,15 30:25
59:24 contrary 8:4 11:2 courthouse 34:8,9 56:18 59:21 31:3 32:1 36:11
corollary 24:7 Court's 7:4 11:2 definition 16:13 document 11:16
22:23 47:8 53:15 cover 51:9 Department 1:20 Dodd-Frank 17:3
23:6,9,16,19 28:21,22 29:3,23 curate 20:10 described 27:9 door 34:8,9
31:12 32:7,8 36:16 38:23 41:20 curiae 1:21 2:10 detailed 56:20 double 28:14 30:4
38:24,25 43:16 51:3 55:13 44:13 determination 5:22 doubt 9:22 11:4
41:22,25 58:4,6,8,8,9 52:6 53:7 draft 38:19
59:15 Costco 31:16 D determine 17:5 drastically 51:21
12:5 14:3,16 20:21 damage 42:16,17 devise 4:9 dueling 56:25
35:1,16 36:24 15:21 21:9 28:13 different 5:10 7:12
14:2 17:4 cost-effective 4:10 deal 4:10 13:15 17:2 direction 31:11 10:13 14:25 15:1
47:25 establish 16:14 58:18 59:17 features 26:3 42:25 24:15,21 59:1
15:6 24:12 37:5 26:18,21 49:3 Federal 8:6 20:12 found 48:20
32:1 33:6 estoppel 22:10,14 51:10 57:8 24:8,11,13,23,24 framed 53:5
38:17 43:22 39:22 explore 38:7 25:1 37:7 38:20 free-floating 11:11
59:12 et 1:3,6 56:22 Express 1:3 3:4,24 39:2,8,17,20 40:24 friends 6:6
15:17 18:16 evidence 7:14 9:12 13:11 17:15,18 46:15 47:7 49:6,15 frustrate 9:20
9:15 10:11,13,18 18:19,21 19:9,11 53:21 59:2 frustrated 24:23
19:25 56:22 Express's 19:17 fees 5:15 46:24,25 full 19:19
example 6:14 8:14 extends 31:1 50:6,9,10 51:3 13:12 14:9
27:21 33:15 exculpatory 34:19 extreme 31:2 figure 30:13
44:17,25 45:7,14 file 43:9 G
existed 12:8 29:16,17 30:7 36:24 45:19 16:15
exists 30:25 49:6,13 52:17,23 fine 9:18 37:20
54:12 55:18 11:10 12:24 facto 34:18 5:22 12:20 15:5 4:23 5:6,9 6:2
expands 6:22 15:15 facts 51:1 18:13,15 21:23 11:21 13:18 14:1
expending 57:10 54:21 55:4,7 56:20 48:6 50:24 56:23 53:19 56:8 58:3
25:21 28:5,18 29:5 favors 24:18 form 40:10 37:12 42:1,9,9
16:15 17:12 40:6 42:14 47:17 50:12 52:17 formally 37:18 God 35:3
18:1 21:11 49:22 51:3,24 feasibly 52:7 53:8 formula 42:17 goes 3:21
11:14,15,19 hinders 48:21 42:1,3,13 14:23 36:10,20,25 37:4
16:3 17:4,23 hire 28:7 37:4 injury 15:21 justify 17:7 38:16 42:8,20 43:5
21:10,21 hiring 49:2 inquiry 3:17 4:18 47:15 49:12 59:9
26:20 holding 3:14 41:24 5:25 11:11 17:8 K Kristian 28:1 50:24
30:9 49:15 56:4 18:11 39:11 52:11 Kagan 6:24 7:6,11
33:21 36:16 honor 4:8 7:19 8:4 insist 14:10 7:21 8:8,18 9:10 L
38:9,11,15 10:22 13:24 15:4 instance 4:9 5:20 9:17 10:7 15:18 L 1:19 2:9 44:11
42:8 48:7 16:23 18:25 32:2 15:5 18:15 26:23 16:9 17:9 22:7,19 largely 27:25
49:16,17 41:15 56:23 59:11 22:24 23:5,18 Laughter 16:11 37:2
58:9 Hovenkamp 28:3,7 instructed 56:9 44:17 46:21 59:7 44:4,7 58:16
37:19,24 huge 15:9 29:17 43:1 14:18 18:13 40:25
57:9 hypothetical 27:13 intended 52:5 keeps 49:1 41:2 47:14
53:4 imply 15:3 invoking 40:24 9:16,22 10:21 12:3 leaves 55:21
important 52:14 involve 10:15 35:1 12:9,12,17 13:8,23 left 12:21
50:22 impracticable 20:11 issue 10:23,24,25 22:1,4,7,12,17,23 letter 25:2
inconsistent 10:6 23:3 32:16 30:22 34:22 35:4 limits 35:25
50:21 51:1 inefficacy 52:14 53:24 16:1,18,19 17:23 55:11 57:1,15 58:8
infeasible 51:24 joining 53:21 20:4,9 21:21 22:13 little 10:8 20:16
24:16 26:25 members 42:8 nearly 6:7 offhand 30:3 people 31:17 53:13
28:3 32:11 memory 28:9 necessarily 15:8 oh 5:6,6 36:14 44:3 59:14,15
40:19,20,20 mentioned 35:11 25:21 28:23 32:22 okay 22:2,16,24 percent 5:24 9:20
52:10 merchant 3:22 34:25 39:13 47:15 49:19 11:20 12:23
merits 38:5 45:6 11:17 15:10,11,24 one-on-one 53:11 permitted 17:6
MICHAEL 1:15 2:3 21:8,20 23:2 25:21 operating 34:17,18 person 4:6 28:7 30:7
38:3 42:20 55:6 oral 1:11 2:2,5,8 3:6persuasively 45:18
44:11 minutes 54:4 neither 53:5 outcome 48:11,12 Petitioner 51:8 52:5
Mitsubishi 7:5,23 58:3 outset 6:1 18:11 2:4,14 3:7 30:17
17:16 29:14 9:18 10:1 11:9,10 Nielsen 42:24 P Petitioner's 51:7,12
42:16,18,19 Mobility 13:18 14:3 non 20:10 P 3:1 51:20
mode 45:11 nonspeculative 27:8 page 2:2 58:1,11 Phil 28:8,25
30:22,24 31:2,17 45:15 51:13 37:7,20 39:10 43:4 34:8
35:1 46:10 57:10 note 14:7 52:4 54:22 plaintiff 6:5,17,19
monkey 49:20 noted 12:22,24 particular 15:6 11:6 15:10 26:14
monopoly 15:21 number 3:3 45:1 parties 3:11 4:14 45:1,2,18,19 48:1
20:9,25 morning 44:9 party 17:13 51:17
28:3 29:6 multiple 5:5 6:11 O passed 9:7 25:16 plaintiffs 5:5 6:11
35:9,21 36:5 20:20 25:17 53:21 O 2:1 3:1 54:1 20:1 21:7 53:21
37:3 38:16 objection 50:18 passing 12:18 plaintiff's 3:13
N obstacles 37:4,9 path 6:13 17:14 23:1 34:10
35:16 48:15 narrow 8:20 10:1 obviously 17:6 52:9 please 3:9 24:4
nature 13:2 14:10 offensive 22:14 12:15 21:20 26:14 plenty 48:22
14:15 15:4 presenting 11:7 production 11:16 put 6:19 16:14 23:1 47:20 51:7,21
16:23 17:10 15:20 Professor 29:7,8 30:18 31:1 36:17 real-world 48:5
30:2 34:13 preserves 9:25 profit 28:15 41:23 42:7 50:19 reason 37:11 52:10
43:12 48:16 presumably 21:4 prohibited 20:18 56:25 reasonable 5:16
57:22 48:16 59:21 prohibitive 46:25 putative 5:24 45:19 48:1
pretty 28:18 37:5 47:1,5 putting 7:21 27:7 reasons 3:15 45:1
19:1,12 33:6 39:4 proposition 24:17 37:15 38:2 40:18 referred 50:25
23:19,22 principles 7:18,22 48:21 49:6 40:20 41:16,23 refused 3:10
36:17 47:23 11:9 Protection 17:4 43:20 46:3 49:25 regardless 28:18
36:21 38:3 prove 3:22 4:3 9:12 52:22 53:3,5,5 rejected 4:18 57:7
50:3 54:16 probably 7:19 15:24 9:14 16:4 19:10,12 54:10,13,14,16 relate 47:3
22:3,4 25:23 32:9 provide 41:20 49:20 quickly 44:6 relief 44:19 46:19
30:5,5 32:10 37:11 41:16 59:12 quite 13:24 17:11 relieve 19:22
42:13 43:18,22 provided 21:9 26:9 27:14 48:25 rely 42:20
42:12 45:13 procedure 14:16 51:13 remand 55:22 56:19
47:25 41:14 45:16 provision 7:20 9:23 remarked 13:19
38:1 57:23,25 render 51:24
14:11 16:24 25:16 50:21 54:11 59:5
27:6 29:22 report 4:12 15:24
16:5 20:22 21:3,20
59:11,17,20 45:20 48:1,14 50:5 pro-arbitration
30:9 57:18 42:14 43:7,8 51:24
52:8 35:10
54:25 55:13 57:2,2
processing 55:12 46:6,9,17
47:9 reports 14:19 28:23
49:6 56:10 36:13 42:2 43:3,11 Section 9:25 showing 27:8 34:20 spend 16:21 55:12
56:22 54:2 60:1 see 4:2 16:4 19:16 56:25 spoken 39:23
57:1 rule 5:22 12:7 20:8 25:6 26:9 43:8 shows 32:16 stand 24:17
23:12 52:12 S Seguros 8:14 58:18 States 1:1,12,20
36:6 43:10 safety 17:1 sending 38:6 simply 43:12 44:18 statute 24:20,23
2:7,11 10:2 saw 32:10 set 29:3 31:19 44:25 42:14 8:6 9:4 18:8 24:8
24:2 44:13 saying 8:22 10:3,8 48:2 sit 11:13 14:20 24:12,13,20
55:7 10:12 11:25 15:12 settlement 21:24 situated 53:13 step 38:16 51:25
30:11,12 34:22 severability 50:19 six 5:10,11 6:6 44:2,10,11,14
17:12 20:4,6 40:11,16,23 41:13 7:1 9:5,7,21 10:19 40:7 stuff 16:17
21:7,14 22:1 44:5 45:22,25 46:8 12:7,18,21 17:7 specific 8:11 13:16 subject 7:17
30:11 31:8 47:10,15,18,21 20:13 25:2,14,15 23:4 35:14 41:17 submit 30:9 45:11
34:14 53:11 52:21 53:2 58:14 25:22 53:25 specifically 9:25 submitted 60:2,4
59:18 school 14:18 shift 26:2 35:16 12:19 57:7 58:17 subsequent 22:11
24:9 38:18,20 Second 3:16 4:12 shifted 40:6 specified 45:16 54:22
56:21 59:2 23:11 29:1 32:10 shifting 26:5 38:23 specify 50:20 substantive 8:12
23:12 27:1 18:15 48:2 time 9:8 12:18 19:16 undisputed 51:23 54:17
testimony 8:23 52:17 54:3 unenforceability 7:25 24:9,12 31:3
43:24 54:2,7 60:1 told 29:5 unenforceable 46:7 38:20 43:23
14:25 15:19 thing 11:21 12:7,11 trade 21:1,13,18 United 1:1,12,20 virtue 39:14
44:24 45:4 12:13 16:3 17:17 42:5 43:5 54:24 2:10 44:12 volumes 42:21
53:20 57:12 19:14 25:1 30:4 transpose 25:7 universe 6:22 15:15 voluntary 13:11
44:13 51:6,19 52:19 treatise 38:13 18:13 waive 38:24 50:9
20:2 26:11 16:2 23:2 31:25 40:10 unusual 42:23 waiver 8:11,12
39:1 54:22 38:17 59:14,16 treble 5:17 11:24 unvindicated 24:14 10:24 13:13 18:7,9
think 3:21 5:21 6:3 tried 22:12 54:15 unworkable 3:17 22:6 23:15 54:11
49:13 8:25 9:23 10:7,7 17:15 un-illuminating waivers 17:5
13:2 14:11,14 trying 27:15 32:1,2 upfront 4:18 want 8:18 9:2 16:7
25:14 29:7 27:5,10 28:1,10,17 42:15 49:14 use 8:23 13:21 21:4 21:2 31:7 35:6
36:2 30:1,16,25,25 31:3 two 26:7 28:15 30:6 22:14 28:19 29:4 39:15 40:4 49:12
36:25 37:1 47:22 52:9 54:22 types 53:24 vacated 56:18 25:14,14 52:5
56:19 value 14:7,8 15:16 way 3:25 4:1,3 9:19
29:15,21 thought 3:11 11:21 unconscionability Vimar 8:14 41:19,21 46:16,22
23:8 25:1 32:14 7:18,22 9:1,24 vindicability 33:6 49:23 59:12
46:8,9 54:16 three 3:15 4:7 understand 8:19 40:5 46:1,2 48:9 Wednesday 1:9
$10,000 26:13,15 5,000 11:24
21:10 26:25 $200 51:14 50,000 30:1
38:4 40:9 $200,000 57:2 54 2:14
57:3 $25,000 36:9,16
6
28:20
49:21 $500 51:13 9
9:20
1:13 3:2
53:12
1:4 3:4
60:3
29:17
26:21
42:4 50:3
28:22 41:10 23 5:22 12:7 20:8
52:10,11 57:9 25:15 41:6 45:23
49:2
3
54:9
24:10
