IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MARVIN D. HORNE, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 12-123
v. :
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 20, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:10 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MICHAEL W. McCONNELL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Petitioners.
JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MICHAEL W. McCONNELL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL W. McCONNELL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 56
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:10 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 12-123, Horne v. Department
of Agriculture.
Mr. McConnell?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL W. McCONNELL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. McCONNELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
There's a surprising number of difficult
merits questions lurking in this case, mostly involving
whether there was a taking, and if so, how it should be
conceptualized and valued.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I -- could I just
stop you on a factual matter -
MR. McCONNELL: Certainly.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- because it has
confused me. As I look at the captions of the cases,
there appear to be two different partnerships: One
partnership, known as Raisin -- doing business as Raisin
Valley Farms, has Mr. Horne and his wife as the
partners.
Larsen Valley, the producer -- not the
producer, the handler -- has four other, the Hornes,
plus two other people. So who owns the raisins? Isn't
that the first partnership of the husband and wife? And
isn't the handler a second partnership that does the
business of handling?
MR. McCONNELL: The other two partners in
Lassen were Laura Horne's parents, now deceased.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the estates have
been substituted.
MR. McCONNELL: Substituted. That's right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So isn't it two legal
entities, one who owns and one who handles? One
partnership produces, one partnership handles?
MR. McCONNELL: The Department of
Agriculture did not distinguish among them.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I don't care if
they did or they didn't. I mean, we should know. Are
they two separate legal entities? One who produces -
MR. McCONNELL: They are separate -- they
are separate legal entities, all effectively controlled
by the same family.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that's -- you
know, in the cat -- you get some limited liability by
creating separate entities, so the creature who owns is
one partnership, and the -- and the entity that
produces, that handles, is a second one.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume this is one of
those difficult merits questions you were alluding to,
it doesn't go to whether there's jurisdiction, but to
whether the claim of a taking can be asserted by the
partnership in question, isn't it?
MR. McCONNELL: That's right,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- I don't see how
it goes to jurisdiction, which is the only question
before us.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it does to my mind
because what is the claim, assuming that the producer
owns -- the producer entity owns the raisins. What
exactly is being taken from the handlers? Is it the
percentage -- it can't be the raisins because they don't
own them.
MR. McCONNELL: Well, Justice Sotomayor,
I'm -- I'm delighted to preview our -- our argument on
the merits on that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What -- what do they
own?
MR. McCONNELL: So the -- so the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What is it that's being
taken from the handler entity?
MR. McCONNELL: The order in this case was
issued against the -- the Hornes in their capacity as a
handler only, so the entire fine was paid by them. None
of the fine is attributable to anyone in their capacity
as a producer.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So go back.
What is the -- what was taken from them -- you're saying
it's just the fine, that the fine is a taking or -- what
was the interest that they're claiming was taken by the
government? They didn't own the raisins, so they get
paid a fee for handling.
MR. McCONNELL: So -- so this is -- this is
our position, Justice Sotomayor. I think we have to
look at what is it that the Department of Agriculture
attempted to take. So, in the demand letter from the
Department of Agriculture addressed to the Hornes,
they -- they asked the Hornes to deliver California
raisins, or the dollar equivalent. So that's the fact
upon which all of this case is -- is built.
Now, what is the legal significance of that,
California raisins or the dollar equivalent? It is our
legal position, or it will be our legal position on the
merits that when the government seeks a specific
physical property, a res, or its monetary equivalent,
that that is a taking of the res itself. And there's -
and there's support for that in the -- for precedent
from this Court. The closest case is Village of
Norwood v. Baker.
In this case, the -- the city condemned a
strip of land for the purpose of building a road. They
tried to get out of paying any compensation by claiming
that the abutting landowner would gain value. That was
rejected. They were assessed $2,000 compensation for
the taking.
And then the city turned around and issued a
special assessment against the landowner for precisely
that $2,000. The landowner came back up to this Court,
and this Court held that it was a taking -- a taking of
the land.
And in a subsequent case just a couple of
years later, the Court described this as a, quote
"actual confiscation of private property to public use."
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you -- you began by
saying that these are merits defenses, but you wanted to
focus first on -- on the jurisdictional question that's
before us.
MR. McCONNELL: That's right. I hope it
helps to inform the jurisdictional question. But the
jurisdictional question is this: The Ninth Circuit held
that my clients could not even raise their takings claim
on the merits until they had first gone to the Court of
Claims.
I think there are three things wrong with
that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Am I right in thinking
that there is no dispute on that point, that the -- the
takings claim could have been asserted by the Hornes, as
producers, in the Court of Federal Claims?
MR. McCONNELL: I think that the government
no longer disputes, although you should ask them to
be -- to be clear -- I think that they no longer dispute
that this is not a jurisdictional client, even though
they prevailed after the petition for rehearing was
filed in the Court of Appeals -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, jurisdictional -
MR. McCONNELL: -- on the ground that it was
jurisdictional.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- jurisdictional or not,
as a practical matter, producers who are not subject to
fine as handlers, but the producers of the raisins whose
raisins are being segregated, could they go to the Court
of Federal Claims and say my raisins have been taken?
MR. McCONNELL: The -- whether the claim is
being brought in the capacity of producer or handler I
think is not relevant to one of our arguments, and it is
relevant to the other argument.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I'd just like a
straight answer to that question. You -- you are
representing producers, and they just produce.
MR. McCONNELL: No, no. No, we're
representing people who are both producers and handlers.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm saying
hypothetically -- hypothetically. Is the Court of
Federal Claims the proper forum for a producer?
MR. McCONNELL: It depends upon whether the
taking has been from them or not. In the ordinary case,
the ordinary relationship between a producer and a
handler, the producer is not paid for the reserve
raisins and therefore any payment that would come, any
lawsuit on behalf of those raisins would go to the
producer, and that would go I think to the Court of
Claims.
In this case, though, the business model is
quite different from that and the producers in this case
were paid everything. They received full value -
market value for their raisins. The only people who are
out any money in this case are the Hornes in their
capacity as handler. So that's why they are the
only ones -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the problem is that
they weren't entitled to that money. Meaning they had
to pay it over to the producer. The producer was going
to pay them a handling fee, but that money didn't belong
to them. It belonged to the producers who supplied them
with the raisins and expected payment for them -
MR. McCONNELL: I'm not sure what -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- if they were sold in
the ordinary course.
MR. McCONNELL: I'm not sure which
money you're -- they have not asserted any claim on any
money. The producers have been completely paid off. It
is the handlers who have been held responsible. And the
reason they were held responsible was the following
logic, and you see this on -- on -- on page 78 of the
judicial officer's opinion.
They were held responsible because in
their -- in their processing capacity, when they were
doing the stemming, the seeding, the fumigating, the
packing, that this was regarded by the Department of
Agriculture as possession -- physical possession of the
raisins and acquisition of the raisins, even though they
never had title to the raisins.
It's the Department of Agriculture that has
attached to them a possessory interest in the raisins
and then assessed them the full monetary equivalent of
those raisins, full market value, $484,000 for the
market value because it's -- because under this very
unusual regulatory scheme the government regards them as
having possessed the raisins even though that -- that is
not -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. McConnell, I'm sorry.
Could I -- along the lines of what Justice Ginsburg was
saying, suppose that the Hornes had given over all the
raisins, right, but that they thought that this was
improper, that this marketing order was -- it was a
violation of the takings clause. Could they have gone
to the Court of Claims, via the Tucker Act, and said, we
want our money back?
They gave -- they gave over the raisins,
they say we're entitled to compensation. Could they
have gone through the Court of Claims?
MR. McCONNELL: If they had -- if they had
not been paid for the raisins, they had taken raisins to
a handler, received no money for them, I think that they
could go to the Court of Claims.
JUSTICE KAGAN: In other words, the Hornes
did what the marketing order suggested they should do.
They gave over the raisins. But they said this is just
improper. You're saying they could go to the Court of
Claims?
MR. McCONNELL: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So if -- if that's
the case, I guess then the question is, why didn't they
have to go that route?
MR. McCONNELL: They didn't -- they didn't
go that route, and the question I think is what are the
-- what are the legal consequences of that -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Right.
MR. McCONNELL: -- because what they -- what
they knew was that they were not going to be compensated
for the raisins, and therefore they came up with a -
with a plan, a business plan that they believed made -
eliminated any handler and made it unnecessary for any
of the independent producers, on whose behalf they're
operating, to turn over raisins to the government.
The plan was ultimately rejected and we
haven't brought a -- a cert petition on it, but the plan
actually complies with the -- with the language of
the -- of the regulation because they believe that in
their capacity as handler, as processor, that they never
acquired the raisins. "Acquisition" is the key term for
becoming a handler under the rule.
And they believe that since they were simply
providing a service for -- for $12 a ton to their
neighbors, that they never acquired the raisins, they
never possessed the raisins, and therefore no one had to
comply the regulation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, some of the raisins
were their own. Some of the raisins were their own.
MR. McCONNELL: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: At least as to that, that
wouldn't be true, right?
MR. McCONNELL: That's -- that's correct. I
think that's correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, to get you back to
the -- the jurisdiction point, let's -- let's just
assume a hypothetical case where a regulated entity has
to pay an exaction which it deems to be a penalty. And
let's assume it can go to the Court of Claims, but it
doesn't.
It waits until the penalty's assessed and
then when the penalty's assessed it says, this is a
taking. That -- is that the case that you want to
discuss with us today.
MR. McCONNELL: That's right. When the
underlying order would be a taking and they have been
assessed money because they didn't comply with the
taking, we believe they can challenge that as a taking.
And both under the AMAA procedures, which are exclusive,
I think that they have to go through the -- through the
Department of Agriculture and then to the district
court, but I also think under the principles of the -
announced by this Court in of the Apfel decision that
they are entitled to a remedy in the district court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. McConnell, would you
explain the -- if they were just handlers and weren't
producing any raisins, if they were just handlers, do
they have a claim and where? And if they were just
producers -- I take it from the question I asked and the
question Justice Kagan asked that if they were just
producers, the raisins got set aside, they were paid for
only the ones that went to market, they could go to the
Court of Claims.
But now they're just handlers, as this
entity is for most of the raisins that are involved,
some 80 percent, right? It's only about 20 percent is
their own. So could this work for someone who was just
a handler, doesn't produce any raisins?
MR. McCONNELL: So if they are just a
handler -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. McCONNELL: -- as the Department of
Agriculture treated them, as far as the Department of
Agriculture is concerned they are only a handler. They
are required to raise -- exhaust their claims before the
Department of Agriculture and then challenge the order
in the district court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What I'm -- I'm trying to
understand is this scheme. Apparently it wasn't enough
just to be a handler or just to be a producer. The
claim that you're making turns on the coincidence of
being both the producer and a handler.
MR. McCONNELL: I don't think that that's
so. I think that we -- that the Hornes ought to prevail
on either -- in either of their capacities.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So any handler, any
handler could be making the same claim?
MR. McCONNELL: Any handler who has a
business model that is similar to this. But most
handlers -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what do you mean
by -- what's the business model that's similar to this?
MR. McCONNELL: So most handlers, if they're
in compliance with the order, they take all the raisins
from the producers, they only pay for -- for the free
pool of raisins. They don't pay for the reserve raisins
and they never have any interest in the reserve raisins.
In this case, the Hornes did not operate that way.
The -- the producers received full value for all of
their raisins.
So the producers are -- are not in the case.
They have no standing. They have no pocketbook injury.
The -- the entire pocketbook injury in this case is
borne by the Hornes in their capacity as a handler.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.
MR. McCONNELL: In response to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In the Horne model, the
handlers buy -- buy the free raisins and then pay the
producers, is that what it -
MR. McCONNELL: That's correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Oh, so that's the
difference in this model, they don't take title to the
raisins is what you're saying?
MR. McCONNELL: Exactly. And the Hornes
believed that this would mean that they were not
handlers.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Let me -
let me -
MR. McCONNELL: And that -- and they were
found to be handlers anyway.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What is -- what is the
value in permitting a party who doesn't own property to
raise a taking claim on behalf of other people?
Meaning, doesn't the system have an interest in ensuring
that people comply with their legal obligations, and to
the extent that you choose to violate the law the way
they have here, that the fine is punitive and not
compensatory.
Meaning, you don't own the raisins, but you
were obligated to put raisins aside for someone else.
You were their agent and you failed to meet a government
obligation that was independently on you.
MR. McCONNELL: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So I go back to my
question: What was the taking? Since you didn't own
the raisins, the taking is the fine is what you want to
call the taking.
MR. McCONNELL: The taking is what the
government demanded, which was either give me your house
or give me your money, give me your raisins or give us
the monetary equivalent.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they're not your
raisins.
MR. McCONNELL: By the time -- by the time
this order was enforced, the raisins were gone and so as
a practical matter, only one of those two alternatives
was left as a matter of timing.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, but in answer to
Justice Ginsburg's question that -- you said the
producers could go to the -- the Court of Federal Claims
to contest the taking of -- producers could go to
contest the taking of raisins.
MR. McCONNELL: If they had not been paid
for the raisins.
JUSTICE ALITO: If they had not been paid
for it.
MR. McCONNELL: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: But are you -- does that
mean you do not think that the AMAA withdraws Tucker Act
jurisdiction?
MR. McCONNELL: It withdraws Tucker Act
jurisdiction only for handlers. So if we're talking
about pure producers -
JUSTICE ALITO: Only for handlers.
MR. McCONNELL: -- pure producers do not go
to the -- don't have to go through the AMAA process.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? Why -- why does it
withdraw for the one and not the other?
MR. McCONNELL: These New Deal-era programs,
Justice Scalia, are somewhat -- the purpose is somewhat
obscure -
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I don't mean the
policy. I don't mean the policy reason. What in the
law leads you to that conclusion?
MR. McCONNELL: Oh, well, this is
straightforwardly set forth in the -- in the -- in
Sections 14(a) and 15(a) of the AMAA. I don't think
that's in dispute. So only producers are -- are
regulated by this program. Only producers have a right
to go through their remedies in the Department of
Agriculture.
Only producers have to do that. It's -
it's a -- it's completely a producer -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said -
MR. McCONNELL: I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
Excuse me. Each of those was -- please substitute the
word "handler" for each of those. It's only the
handlers that are regulated under this -- under this
program.
So -- and -- and my clients were treated as
handlers. They believed that they were not. But it is
the Department of Agriculture that has attached this -
this status to them. And it's -- it's I think quite a
Catch 22 for the government to come along and say,
although we are fining you $700,000 in your capacity as
a handler, you're not a handler for purposes of
challenging the legality of that order.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm just trying to get to
what you're arguing about. And I might be off base by
now. I feel like handlers, purchasers, raisins, like an
old Abbott and Costello movie. I just want to see if
I'm right. Tell me. Just say you're wrong and I don't
go into it further.
There -- there are some people, they've been
-- they are either -- they have some raisins, all right.
And these particular people, whom the Department has
said have acquired the raisins, it said they acquired
the raisins. And so they're there with some raisins,
and then the government says, do this thing with your
raisins. And they don't want to do it, so they don't.
They don't do it even though the law says do it.
And then they say the law is
unconstitutional and, moreover, you fined us a huge
amount of money and we don't want to pay it because the
law is unconstitutional, and we consider that money to
be paid. Call it a fine, call it what you want. We
consider we shouldn't have paid it and now we want it
back and we want compensation and we think it's a taking
and where do we go. Can't we make that argument in the
Ninth Circuit? It's something like that; isn't that
what we're arguing about?
MR. McCONNELL: That's almost exactly right.
JUSTICE BREYER: But not quite.
(Laughter.)
MR. McCONNELL: With -- with one detail
different -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes?
MR. McCONNELL: -- which is that this is the
proceeding here that decides whether they have to pay.
They have not yet paid the fine.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, okay. So we
shouldn't have to pay because this is all
unconstitutional. And -- and now what's your argument?
MR. McCONNELL: So -- so they're raising a
defense. It isn't that they are -- it isn't that
they're getting -- trying to get it back.
JUSTICE BREYER: And then the Ninth Circuit
says go to the Court of Claims. And you say no, we
don't have to go to the Court of Claims.
MR. McCONNELL: But that detail actually is
quite important because, remember, you can't even go to
the Court of Claims unless you are seeking damages for
an actual violation that has already taken place. We
could not go to the court -- the Hornes could not go to
the Court of Claims right now. What the government says
is that they should pay the $700,000 fine first and then
go to the Court of Claims to get it back. And that is
exactly what this Court said in Apfel, is a, quote,
"pointless set of activities that Congress could not
possibly have" -
JUSTICE KAGAN: That's true -
MR. McCONNELL: -- "have contemplated."
JUSTICE KAGAN: I think that's true, Mr.
McConnell, as to part of the fine, that part of the fine
falls under Apfel, but not the other part. As to the
compensation part, it seems to me you have a pretty
decent Apfel argument. But as to the penalty part, I
don't really understand how the Apfel argument would go.
It seems to me that as to the penalty part,
the key thing is that if they had handed over the
raisins, they could have gone to the Court of Federal
Claims and had the compensation done there. And the
fact that the government is penalizing them for not
complying with the marketing order does not fall within
the rationale of Apfel.
MR. McCONNELL: Well, the most pertinent
case for that part of the fine, for the penalty part, is
Missouri Pacific Railroad v. Nebraska. So this is the
case where the railroad was told by the State to do
some -- some expensive work, the railroad says no, that
would be a taking if we were required to do that. There
is no compensation available and so they don't do it.
They're fined $500.
That gets up to this Court and an opinion by
Mr. -- Justice Holmes, the Court holds that that is a
taking and that the railroad is entitled to challenge
the taking in the form of the fine. So for -- for the
penalty portion, the punishment portion of the fine,
Missouri Pacific Railroad is actually the more pertinent
decision.
Which comes back -- I don't think I fully
answered all the variants of Justice Sotomayor's
question.
JUSTICE BREYER: All I was trying to do was
to get you on the basic argument, which you started
with, which is why is there -- why was the Ninth Circuit
wrong when they said they had no jurisdiction to hear
this, that rather, they had to go -- you had to go to
the -
MR. McCONNELL: May I tick off the three
reasons?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. McCONNELL: One is it has nothing to do
with jurisdiction.
Second, the Tucker Act does not apply to
cases where -- where there is a defense being lodged to
a monetary exaction. That's Apfel, as supplemented by
Missouri Pacific Railroad.
And third, even if that were not so, the
AMAA displaces the Tucker Act and they were required to
exhaust their remedies before the Department of
Agriculture and take their case to the district court in
which they are residing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What was the first? I
forgot the first already. What was the first?
MR. McCONNELL: The first is that it isn't
jurisdictional and therefore it should not have been
raised -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what isn't
jurisdictional?
MR. McCONNELL: The -- the requirement to go
to the Court of Claims when you -- when you need to is
not jurisdictional, that that's a matter of remedy, that
is, it's -- it's the equitable principle that you may
not pursue your case for an injunctive relief when
there's an adequate remedy at law.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. McConnell, in -
in -- if the producers had decided to challenge this as
a Tucker Act violation, they would have had to hand over
the raisins? Or could they have just held on to the
raisins and said, I'm not handing it over until I get
just compensation?
MR. McCONNELL: So had they held on to their
own raisins and sold them, I assume, you don't -- not
just left them rot, if they had sold them, then the
Department of Agriculture would have called them a
handler because anyone who sells raisins is called a
handler, and then they would be fined in their capacity
as a handler and it would be a somewhat similar case to
this one.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right.
MR. McCONNELL: Maybe an easier one than
this one.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the point is that
under a normal takings claim, you have to hand over your
property, you've lost the value, and you want the
government to pay it back to you, correct?
MR. McCONNELL: Not necessarily correct.
There are a whole string of cases in which property
owners raise takings as a defense rather than turning
over the property. Kaiser Aetna is perhaps the most -
best known recent case, but out of an administrative
context, there's the Florida Power & Light case. Penn
Central was -- was like this. Loretto v. Teleprompter
is like this.
There's a whole string of cases. The
government themselves cite six such cases, most of them
fairly old, for this proposition. So there's nothing
unusual about bringing a -- a defensive takings claim.
Mr. Chief Justice, unless -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. McConnell, I don't
want to encroach on your rebuttal time, but one
mysterious thing. The first time around, the Ninth
Circuit decided this case on the merits. So if you're
right, I take it, we remand and then they adjudicate the
merits of the takings claim. But they already did that.
MR. McCONNELL: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. And
they did that on a ground that we think is manifestly
inconsistent with this Court's precedents. We were
prepared to -- we were trying to get an en banc review
and were prepared to come to this Court from the merits
determination.
We were blocked from that because the
government, after the petition for rehearing was filed,
came up with -- calling this a jurisdictional argument,
raised this objection for the first time; and the Ninth
Circuit panel accepted their view, issued a new opinion,
stripping out the entire merits, and substituting this
jurisdictional holding that is producing so much
enjoyment for us this morning.
(Laughter.)
MR. McCONNELL: May I reserve the remaining
time? Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. McConnell.
Mr. Palmore?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH R. PALMORE
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. PALMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
I'd like to start where Justice Sotomayor
started with Petitioner's counsel because any takings
analysis needs to begin with a careful identification of
what property was allegedly taken. Petitioners in this
case have actually advanced two different theories about
what property of theirs was taken. What taking is at
issue here? Raisins and money.
We think both takings claims fail for
threshold reasons, but they're different threshold
reasons that call for different analysis.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Palmore, before you do
that then, haven't you conceded the point that this is
not jurisdictional?
MR. PALMORE: We agree that the failure to
go to the Court of Claims is not properly viewed as a
jurisdictional defect. We did invoke Ninth Circuit
precedent below stating that it was jurisdictional. And
some of this cases -- this Court's cases put it in
ripeness terms, which is an Article III concept. So
there has been confusion -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When did you first
raise the argument that it was jurisdictional?
MR. PALMORE: In our opposition to the
rehearing petition.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And now you are -
now you are changing back again and saying it's not?
MR. PALMORE: There was Ninth Circuit
precedent holding that it was jurisdictional, and we
relied on that and there is certainly language from this
Court -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You relied on that
when you got to rehearing. You didn't rely on that
before you went before the Ninth Circuit, right?
MR. PALMORE: That's correct.
We think -- we think this is properly viewed
as a substantive defect in the claim, so in a sense the
Ninth Circuit, in its initial panel decision, ruled for
the government on a substantive defect one, there's no
taking. And what it did on rehearing in our view,
although it attached the wrong label to it, it
substantively was correct in concluding that there was
substantive defect number two -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But Mr. Palmore, if you are
conceding now that this is not jurisdictional, it seems
to me that your Tucker Act argument as a substantive
argument, I mean, has been waived. You didn't raise
that argument until the rehearing petition.
MR. PALMORE: That would certainly be
something that -- that the Ninth Circuit could consider
in the event there were a remand here. But the Ninth
Circuit did decide it. The substance of its bottom line
conclusion was correct and all of its analysis was
correct. It simply used the wrong words, so we think it
is here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm really -- I'm really
confused. You are saying there ought to be a remand
here because the question is not jurisdictional, which
is just what your friend says, right?
MR. PALMORE: Well, the Ninth Circuit -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So the two of you are in
agreement it ought to go back to the Ninth Circuit, they
should do it on the merits, and -- and if that's wrong,
we can review that.
MR. PALMORE: Look, if that happens, of
course, as Justice Ginsburg pointed out, the consequence
for us is they reinstate the prior panel opinion, in
which we win, also -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That may well be, but -
MR. PALMORE: I'm not going to resist too
strenuously that kind of remand, but they did decide it.
And moreover, they decided something separate, which is
at JA-305 they said something different, which is the
kind of threshold defect in the takings claim turning on
raisins, which is there is a capacity problem.
So there are two problems with the raisin
claims, a capacity problem and a just compensation
problem. The capacity problem is this: In 2002, after
having been strictly raisin producers since 1969,
entering into a market where there was a reserve
requirement from the beginning, they knew what they were
getting into, they decided to adopt a new business
model, as Petitioner's counsel says. But, as was found
below, they adopted a business model that was an
intentional, willful attempt to evade regulatory
requirements in order to secure an unfair competitive
advantage.
But what they did was they took on the
obligations of a handler. They became raisin handlers
in 2002. And what came with that status were a series
of regulatory obligations that apply only to handlers
and under the AMAA can apply only to handlers: The
requirement to have raisins inspected, the requirement
to file truthful reports, the requirement to make
records available, and the requirement to separate out
raisins into what's called free tonnage and reserve
tonnage, any raisins processed, it doesn't matter who
owns them.
Those are handler-specific regulatory
obligations that were imposed upon them, and they
violated every single one of them, willfully and
intentionally, in order to secure an unfair competitive
advantage.
And what the USDA did was impose penalties
on them for the violation of law that -- that attached
to them only as raisin handlers. And then they invoked
the judicial review proceedings in Section 14 that
provides a judicial review mechanism only for handlers.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but part of -- part of
that penalty was -- you know, your raisins or your life,
right? I mean, it was -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- you don't have to pay
the penalty if you give us the raisins.
MR. PALMORE: That's not correct,
Justice Scalia. They have to give the raisins.
Mr. McConnell referred to demand letters -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You mean they -- Is that
right, they have to give the raisins?
MR. PALMORE: They are under a regulatory
obligation to provide the raisins. If they violate that
regulatory obligation, they are subject to sanctions.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. So -
MR. PALMORE: One component of -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that amounts to the same
thing, your raisins or the penalty, right?
MR. PALMORE: No, but it's not a choice.
And I think that's very important to point out. There
were actually two different demand letters.
Mr. McConnell referred to a demand letter saying your
raisins or your money. There was an initial demand
letter saying: You are a handler; you have to comply;
we're going to come get the raisins. The second demand
letter said, we showed up -- literally it says, we
showed up with our truck, you didn't provide the
raisins, so now you have got to provide the cash
equivalent.
And there were also going to be, as there
were, separate regulatory proceedings brought against
them for violating those -- those obligations. Not just
the failure to reserve, but all these handler-specific
obligations. They filed false reports. They didn't
make raisins available for inspection.
There were a whole host of regulatory
violations that were at issue here, and when they
invoked the handler review action in the district court
they could assert defenses as a handler. But, for
instance, another producer -- producers can't invoke
these -- these judicial review schemes. Another
producer couldn't have intervened in that action to
assert its producer claim.
JUSTICE ALITO: As this case stands when -
as it comes before us, is there a claim that they -
that money -- the government is trying to take money
from them without just compensation?
MR. PALMORE: That was certainly not how we
understood the claim to be litigated below. That's not
how the Ninth Circuit thought -- understood the claim.
We have been talking about the claim involving the
raisins, which fails for a to capacity reason and a just
compensation reason.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is that an issue -- is that
an issue we should decide or is that an issue that the
Ninth Circuit should decide, whether there is a takings
claim for money?
MR. PALMORE: That was certainly not decided
below, so a remand -- to the extent that this was
preserved, a remand would be possible outcome there. We
think, though, that that claim suffers from separate -
separate procedural threshold defects.
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. If we assume for
the sake of argument that there is such a claim, why
does that not fall within Apfel?
MR. PALMORE: Well, we think that -- for
several reasons. First of all, the Apfel opinion that's
referred to is just a plurality. It's not been adopted
by the Court. Second of all, the Apfel analysis relied
on this one-for-one, dollar-for-dollar concept. That
was a critical part of the plurality's discussion there,
and it thought that it would simply be a pointless
exercise for Eastern Enterprises to be required to pay
the premium and then to go to the Court of Federal
Claims and get the exact same amount of money back.
JUSTICE ALITO: Don't they claim that -
MR. PALMORE: We suggested that there are a
whole host of reasons -
JUSTICE ALITO: Before you leave that, don't
they claim that the entire amount that is assessed
against them is a taking? Now, maybe they are wrong.
That the entire amount assessed against them is a taking
without just compensation? Maybe they are wrong, but
isn't that a merits question?
MR. PALMORE: That's -- that's -- they are
clearly wrong about that, and I -- but I think -
however you characterize that defect, it defeats this
dollar-for-dollar pointless exercise point that
Apfel plurality -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, why is that a
necessary part of Apfel? Why didn't Apfel just mean
when we are dealing with cash you don't have to go to
the Court of Claims? So even if -- you know, you can
have a discussion in the district court about whether
it's not dollar-for-dollar and it should be discounted
in some way.
But why should the fact that its
dollar-for-dollar mean -- why is that a requirement, as
opposed to just it's cash and so the question of,
like -- you know, handing some -- handing it all over
and getting some back, that can be done in the district
court rather than making somebody file a separate suit?
MR. PALMORE: Well, I think there were two
things going on in Apfel and there were really two
distinct reasons why the plurality in Apfel thought that
there was no requirement to go to the Tucker Act there.
One was that it thought that in a statute like that,
that simply allocated benefits and burdens among private
entities, Congress would not have intended there to be
compensation available in the -- in the event that there
were a taking.
And that was actually the government's
position in that case and the Apfel plurality cited to
that portion of the government's brief. And it cited
cases in its discussion that weren't dollar-for-dollar
or even cash transfer cases in which the Court had gone
to the merit of takings claims without consideration of
a Tucker Act remedy.
Then there is the second idea, which is the
cash transfer idea. And we think that the
dollar-for-dollar aspect of that was important to the
plurality's analysis because it viewed that as evidence
that Congress would not have intended the Tucker Act to
be deployed because it would have been a pointless
exercise. So it really went to what Congress's intent
was.
Here, of course, for myriad reasons, that
dollar-for-dollar analysis breaks down.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, but there's a
similar -- I mean, it seemed to me, again simplifying,
that underlying this their clients think this whole
raisin program is unconstitutional. What it does is it
takes raisins that we grow, in effect throws them in the
river. And in the thirties, that was done to raise
raisin prices.
And they think as a matter of policy that
just hurts people by raising prices, and as a matter of
constitutional law it takes raisins from some people
that belong to them and uses them for this bad purpose.
Okay, that's their view of it, something like that,
isn't it?
MR. PALMORE: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. So they're making
that kind of constitutional claim. Now, I would think
if all you told me was that and I knew nothing about all
these statutes, I would say that's the kind of claim
that should be made in a Federal district court, period,
not the Court of Claims. Because their government isn't
going to compensate them for anything. That's against
the whole point of the program.
Either this program is valid or it isn't.
And if it isn't, some authoritative set of courts should
tell us that. So I have a feeling this is somehow not a
right fit with the Court of Claims.
Now, you explain to me why that purely
instinctive feeling at this point is completely wrong.
MR. PALMORE: Sure. Justice Breyer, we've
now shifted back to the -- the first theory about the
property, which is the raisins. What they could have
done in 2002, would they have been a producer of
raisins, solely a producer of raisins for decades, at
any point during -- between 1969 and 2002, they could
have gone to the Court of Claims and said, this reserve
requirement, the taking of my raisins, I want my just
compensation.
That is not just a remedy, as Mr. McConnell
suggests, it is a constitutional condition on the taking
of private property for public use. As long as there's
just compensation, there simply is no violation. So
that's why -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That couldn't be what the
statute meant. I think that's what Justice Breyer says.
Did -- did Congress create a statute in which we're
going to take your raisins and then you can go to the
Court of Claims and get your money back. I mean,
that -- that surely is not what Congress contemplated.
The -- the whole notion of the program is you can't get
your money back in the Court of Claims.
Now, if you're raising a constitutional
objection, that's something else. That should be done
in district court. But to say that Congress
contemplated -- you know, we'll take your raisins and
then you sue in the Court of Claims, they give you your
money back. That's a weird statute.
MR. PALMORE: Justice Scalia, I have two -
two responses to that. First of all, these claims have
been litigated in the Court of Claims; the Evans case,
the Cal-Almond case, both of which we cite in our brief.
Raisin producers, or in the Cal-Almond case it was an
almond producer, went to the Court of Claims and said
this reserve requirement is a taking, I want my money.
And they lost; the Court of Claims -- correctly, in our
view -- held that there was no taking.
That said, we do agree that it is actually a
close question whether Congress would have intended
compensation to be provided in a situation like this
one, in the event the raisin reserve program were found
to be a taking. We've said -- we've said in our brief,
we do view that as a close question, although on
balance, we think that the proper answer is that there
is a remedy -- or, sorry, there is just compensation
available in the Court of Claims.
But there are cases, Justice -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you -- you think that's
a close question? You think that the way the statute is
supposed to operate, once it is held that this is an
unconstitutional taking, is that every year, the
government takes the raisins and every year, the grower
goes to the Court of Claims and gets the money back for
the raisins. Is that the program that Congress
anticipated?
MR. PALMORE: Well, we do agree that it's a
close question for the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think it's close at
all. That's a crazy statute. Every year we're going to
take raisins and every year we're going to pay you in
the Court of Claims. What's the purpose of that?
MR. PALMORE: Well, of course, Congress
didn't think this was a taking. And it -- and it built
considerable administrative flexibility into the
statute, and at the end of the day, that's what
convinces us that Congress would not have intended to
preclude compensation in the Court of Claims and to -
to opt for an injunction instead because the Secretary
of Agriculture has wide latitude to adjust.
So the compensation wouldn't be paid year
after year, as your hypothetical suggested. The program
could be adjusted. A reserve requirement is only one
way of complying with the kind of supply control
provisions of the statute. There are any number of
options available.
But I'd also point out that in this Court's
precedence in Monsanto and Regional Rail, those were
both statutory schemes which had their own compensation
mechanism, as does this one, this reserve raisins that
producers do get paid sometimes for them in a smaller
amount. Those were cases in which the statutes did have
compensation mechanisms, and this Court held that the
Tucker Act was available as kind of a supplementary
compensation in the event -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Palmore, am I
incorrect in thinking that the government is saying,
handlers cannot raise the constitutionality of the
Raisin Marketing Order? You've told us that the
producers can go to the Court of Claims. What about the
handlers? They're at least being fined for violating
the Act, and it's their position that the whole thing is
unconstitutional.
Can they raise the constitutionality of the
whole arrangement defensively, or they simply can't
raise the constitutionality of the Act?
MR. PALMORE: Justice Ginsburg, I think this
goes back again to the property question. If the claim
is that it's unconstitutional because it takes
producers' property, they can't raise that in this
proceeding. If the property is the raisins, they can't
raise that in this proceeding. They need to -- to
comply and go to the Court of Claims for compensation,
which means there has been no -- in the event there's a
taking, it's a constitutional taking because just
compensation is provided.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it would be -
MR. PALMORE: If the claim -- if the claim
is that the money that was taken from me, the fine, that
itself is a taking, then we think that claim can and
must be brought in the context of the AMAA proceeding.
That was not how the Court of Appeals understood the
claim here to be, and there's no precedent for the idea
that a fine for violation of law can be articulated as a
taking of the lawbreaker's property without just
compensation. I haven't seen any case that -- that
stands for that proposition and that would be quite
remarkable.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then you just -- but
then you just lose on the merits. What the Ninth
Circuit says, they can't even argue this.
MR. PALMORE: Well, Justice Kennedy -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I thought that what
we were going to decide was whether or not, assuming you
can go to the Court of Claims, you must go to the Court
of Claims, can you prefer to wait, have a penalty
assessed against you and say this is unconstitutional,
it's a taking. Your position is you can't say that. I
don't understand why. Other than, if you want to talk
about Williamson and so forth, we can get into that.
MR. PALMORE: But, Justice Kennedy, the -
the Ninth Circuit didn't understand the taking claim to
be that the fine for my violation of law is a taking of
my money. That's not how the Ninth Circuit understood
the claim, so they didn't analyze it in that way.
They understood the claim to be that the
taking of producers' raisins is a taking, and we
lawfully resisted it because it was an unconstitutional
taking. The Ninth Circuit correctly rejected that
because there was nothing unconstitutional about it
because it was not without just compensation.
The Tucker Act is the just compensation.
This Court has held -
JUSTICE BREYER: The just compensation, I
take it, in the program is supposed to come from the
fact that raisin prices go up. So the poor children
with their noses pressed to the glass because they can't
pay the raisins, their parents are the ones who are
paying the compensation. And certainly not the
taxpayer, he's not going to pay it, and maybe the other
producers will pay, some who get gypped or something, I
don't know. But I can't believe that Congress wanted
the taxpayers to pay for a program that's going to mean
they have to pay higher prices as consumers.
MR. PALMORE: Justice Breyer, and that goes
to the -- to the merits of the case.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. No, it doesn't go
to the merits. It goes to whether or not it makes sense
to think that the Court of Claims has something to say
about this. And suppose we did this. Suppose we said,
given the fact that you filed your thing, whatever it
was -- you know, late, and the -- and the light of this
very enlightening discussion which has been helpful, we
think that this is the kind of program and challenge to
the program where there isn't going to be a remedy
really in the Court of Claims and they ought to go ahead
in the Ninth Circuit, and in light of all these
enlightening things that we'll write, you just decide
the merits of -- is that -- now, I'm sure you're going
to say that's absolutely terrible, it won't work at all.
So tell me why not.
MR. PALMORE: Well, Your Honor, of course,
the consequence of that is they reinstate our prior
victory in the prior panel opinion -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, we'd say -- we'll
say given the way that we've talked about the program,
perhaps it's best to consider this matter fully.
MR. PALMORE: Well, they did consider the
matter fully. In the initial opinion, they said there's
no taking here.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. PALMORE: So all of the discussion we're
having here is about -- is predicated on the idea that
if there were a taking, would compensation be available
in the first place.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. Can I -
MR. PALMORE: We agree there's no taking.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. It almost
seems to me, and I'll ask Mr. McConnell when he gets up
at rebuttal, that there is some sort of due process
challenge going on here that's been created by the
labels they did in this new situation -- in this new
business venture. In the normal situation, the handler,
I'm being told, would actually have title to the
raisins, and they would pay the producers for the
raisins. So there would be property taking.
In that situation, where the handlers
actually own the property, would they be able to raise a
taking defense?
MR. PALMORE: No, because of the way that
the statute and the regulatory program works. If the
handler is actually buying raisins from the producer,
the handler never takes title to the reserve raisins.
And he doesn't pay for the reserve raisins. He takes
title to the free-tonnage raisins and the title to the
reserve raisins passes, as a matter of law, from the
producer to the Raisin Administrative Committee. The
handler never owns those raisins.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So they are missing a
business opportunity because they can't take title to
those raisins. And yet you're asking -
MR. PALMORE: They would never pay for
those -- they would never pay for those raisins because
they can't take title. They can't lawfully take title
to those raisins. Now -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This really does sound
to me -- and I think that both Justice Scalia and Breyer
now are being more and more convinced -- there has to be
a place to challenge this scheme.
MR. PALMORE: And there absolutely is.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Whether it's a taking -
whether there's a takings claim for the handler because
the handler is being asked to do things -
MR. PALMORE: But the handler's property is
not being taken, and that's critical. There are
separate takings claims that handlers have advanced
that -- that could be asserted through this process.
For instance, there was a case called Lion Raisins from
the Federal Circuit that we cite in our brief, in which
the issue was that the handler provided bins to store
the raisins, and he didn't get his bins back. Okay?
That was a handler takings claim, and that
had to be asserted in the context of this handler review
scheme. But the handler doesn't own the raisins under
this scheme.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- that's a merits
question again. I mean, it's not a question of whether
you -- you can resist on the basis of a takings claim.
It's a question of whether you are going to win.
MR. PALMORE: No, Justice Scalia, I think it
goes to the scope, the capacity question that we were
talking about before because the statute is quite clear
in section 608c(13)(B) that this scheme does not
regulate producers in their capacity as producers. And
if someone wants to take on both roles, they will be
regulated only as a handler.
So the regulatory obligations that applied
to Petitioners when they adopted this business model
were handler-only regulatory obligations, and then this
is a handler judicial review proceeding. That's a very
narrow means of decision here that avoids some of these
kind of conceptual questions about the nature of the -
the Takings Clause, which is that this claim simply
doesn't belong in this proceeding.
But there's no unfairness or no due process
issue here at all because they -- in 2002, when -- when
Petitioners decided to engage in this, these regulatory
violations in order to secure an unfair advantage over
their competitors, as was found by the ALJ at JA41, at
that point they could have sought compensation for the
past 6 years of raisins that they had provided. They
didn't do it.
I don't understand why they didn't do it.
They left that claim on the table. And to the extent
they wanted to claim going forward, they could have
continued to use compliant handlers and sued every month
for compensation in the Court of Claims.
JUSTICE ALITO: Did I understand you to say
a couple minutes ago that if the case were remanded, you
would be entitled to win on the reasoning of the panel
opinion?
MR. PALMORE: The prior panel opinion,
Justice. If -- if there was a remand on the basis that
the Ninth Circuit misunderstood this as a jurisdictional
Article III defect, and then the Ninth Circuit were to
find waiver, what the Ninth Circuit presumably would do
would be to reinstate its first panel decision, which we
think was also correct and held that there was no taking
here. There are two -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Palmore, what would be
wrong -- would anything be wrong -- with a -- with a
disposition of this Court that went something like this:
Everybody agrees that this is not a jurisdictional
issue, including the government, so they got that wrong.
Now, as to this whole business about the
Tucker Act and whether the Tucker Act provides a remedy,
the government only started talking about that in a
petition for rehearing en banc, and the government can't
do that. You know, it can't introduce an argument like
this in a petition for rehearing en banc. So that's
waived.
And now, the Ninth Circuit can go and try to
figure out whether this marketing order is a taking or
it's just the world's most outdated law.
(Laughter.)
MR. PALMORE: That would certainly be an
available option, or the Ninth Circuit could decide for
itself whether there had been a waiver.
But there's a separate issue in that there's
this capacity issue, which is a separate point that the
Ninth Circuit made at JA305, when it pointed out that
this was a producer claim, and that's something that -
that was strictly a producer claim and wasn't -- wasn't
a fit for this handler review action, and that's
something that could also be considered on remand.
But the consequence of this -- of that would
be for the -- the Court to impose its -- if it found a
waiver, to rule for us for separate merits reasons.
We do view the Tucker Act -- the failure to
seek just compensation -- as a merits defect in the
Petitioners' claim here. So even putting this capacity
problem aside, there is simply -- there's no defense.
Mr. McConnell says this can be raised as a defense. But
there is no defense if all you show is that there has
been a taking of private property for public use, full
stop.
JUSTICE BREYER: What does the word
"acquire" mean. There is some opinion here which says
these handlers acquired the raisins. What is -- what's
that about?
MR. PALMORE: "Acquire" is a defined term,
and it includes to possess. So they took to -
JUSTICE BREYER: Like lessees or something,
bailees?
MR. PALMORE: There was no question under
the regulatory scheme here that Petitioners were
handlers. And in fact, there's a surprising -
JUSTICE BREYER: I -- no, no. I just wanted
to know what the word "acquire" -
MR. PALMORE: "Acquire" -- "acquire" is
defined to include a number of things, including to
possess. And a handler is anyone who sells raisins.
There was no mystery about this.
And, in fact, at pages 8 through 11 of our
brief, we cite communication after communication where
USDA told them -
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, can an acquirer of my
car, for example -- I don't know. Forget that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: A bailee?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Can they -- can they
assert a takings claim attaches to the car? It sounds
like a standing question.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, I suppose a bailee
could, a bailee of the car.
MR. PALMORE: No, I don't think a bailee
could. I think the owner would have to assert that
claim, right.
But "acquire" is a defined term, and as this
case comes to this Court it's accepted. The Petitioner
has not sought cert on the underlying regulatory
findings. In fact, their arguments -- they were told
ahead of time that they were completely wrong over and
over and over again, and then they lost that claim at
every level, twice within the Department of Agriculture,
in the district court, in the court of appeals. They
lost on that regulatory claim.
This wasn't a good faith misunderstanding.
If you look at JA41, the ALJ found that this was a
willful and intentional, knowing violation of regulatory
requirements because they were able to undercut their
competitors by not playing by the rules. So this
doesn't present any kind of due process -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. But still, it might
if they're acquirers -- but they are acquirers, okay?
They think this program is unconstitutional because it
takes some other people's property, right? So those
other people are in a very special relation to them.
Those other people are really close.
And it may be they have standing to assert
those other people's claims. And if they do have
standing to assert those other people's claims, why
can't they make the argument that way?
MR. PALMORE: I -- I disagree that they have
standing to make those other people's claims. And also,
Petitioners haven't argued, haven't made any third-party
standing argument here.
But -- this Court's requirements are quite
strict for third-party standing. You have to have a
close -- a close relationship, and I don't think a mere
arm's-length commercial relationship would count.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose they did have
standing. Could they raise the claim?
MR. PALMORE: If -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You say no.
MR. PALMORE: Well, they have -- they
certainly have standing as producers to raise the claim.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let's assume they have
standing. Could they raise the claim -
MR. PALMORE: Yes, that -
JUSTICE KENNEDY -- that this is an
unconstitutional taking?
MR. PALMORE: In the Court of Claims,
absolutely, as producers.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no. In the
administrative proceeding where they are charged with -
where a penalty is being assessed against them.
MR. PALMORE: I think that they would have
standing, but it's still a claim that's beyond the scope
of this narrow specific judicial review proceeding. I
think its' a -- it's a different problem.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I have to say -- I
think it comes with less than good grace for you to
criticize the other side for not having raised a
particular argument. But I do want to clarify that you
have no objection at this point for reversing the Ninth
Circuit on the ground that they erred in saying that
this -- they should have dismissed on jurisdictional
grounds.
MR. PALMORE: Well, I'm not going to resist
that too strenuously, -- but I think if they did decide
the question, they decided it correctly. It was a
threshold defect. Their analysis was all correct. So I
think that's before the Court.
But yes, we -- we frankly acknowledge and we
acknowledged in our brief that we did not -- we did
suggest below that this was a jurisdictional defect.
Ninth Circuit authority said that it was and we relied
on that.
We now believe that it's best understood not
as a jurisdictional defect, but as a substantive defect
in the claims, not simply a choice of remedies issue, as
Petitioners suggests because choice of remedy suggests
that there has been a constitutional wrong and that we
need to decide what remedy is going to be available, an
injunction or damages.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The short answer is,
yes, reach the merits only if I win. That -- that's
really what you want us to do.
MR. PALMORE: Well, we -- we think you could
reach some of the merits. We think that the narrow
disposition here is actually the capacity -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, no. I need to
ask you this question because do you want us to reach
the merits if we're going to have you lose? You got to
want one or the other.
Do you want us to reach the merits, period,
is really the question?
MR. PALMORE: Yes. Our position is that
we're not acquiescing in a -- in a remand. We think you
can affirm, and you should affirm. However, I do
recognize -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think we should
reach the merits, which is a very different question?
MR. PALMORE: Well, it depends on what you
mean by "merits."
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Only if you win, right?
MR. PALMORE: There is the taking -- no.
There is the underlying kind of takings claim, that
there was -- was there a taking here at all. And that's
not before the Court. I don't think anyone suggests
that that's before the Court.
But we do -- we do think that there are a
series of other threshold defects in the claim that this
Court could -- could rely on.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Palmore.
Mr. McConnell, you have 3 minutes remaining.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL W. McCONNELL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. McCONNELL: I'd like to make two quick
points. One is that I believe that the government has
essentially conceded here in this argument and in their
brief that the Tucker Act does not apply. They have
told us that the Tucker Act does not apply on page 50
and repeated here when Congress could not have
contemplated a compensation. Now, in addition -- and
their only answer to that is to say, first, that
Congress didn't think it would be a taking, which in
Regional Rail, this Court said is not the question.
And secondly, that if -- if there's one -
we should get paid once, compensation once and then the
administrator's going to cancel the program, which is no
answer at all. Either the statute contemplates
compensation for everybody or it contemplates it for
nobody.
I think they have effectively conceded that
the Tucker Act does not apply.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, they've conceded
that it doesn't apply to handlers.
MR. McCONNELL: To handlers. And -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes, and so they've
conceded there is no -
MR. McCONNELL: And the second issue I
wanted to talk about so is this capacity issue.
Certainly, we have standing. When -- it's not
third-party standing. All of the money comes out of our
pocket, yes, we have standing. And secondly, we
certainly -- and then that is in our capacity as
handler.
Essentially, the Department of Agriculture's
view is that during those couple of days when the
raisins are going through our packing plant, that we
acquired them and possessed them during those couple of
days and that we should have given them their -- their
share. That's raisins, that's not money. But by the
time they get around to enforcing that and so forth, the
raisins are gone and now the money stands in -- stands
in for the raisins. But that is a taking claim.
We think it's a -- it's a straightforward
taking claim under -- under Norwood and Missouri Pacific
Railroad, that's a merits question. But in any event,
it is not a problem of capacity. Whatever might be,
that taking, that taking is in the capacity as a
handler.
Those are my two points.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:10 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
58:3 34:4 47:14 36:14 54:4 48:16 23:5 25:11 28:5
53:10 46:17 announced 14:2 aside 14:10 17:4 35:12 37:19
Aetna 25:15 56:10,16 14:9 46:14 46:22
agent 17:5 anticipated aspect 36:7 bailee 51:5,10,11
agree 27:18 39:5 anyway 16:19 51:8,13 52:11 bailees 50:15
agrees 48:24 23:21 34:1,3,5 10:9 46:18,24 banc 26:9 49:4,6
Agriculture 1:6 34:25 35:2,2,15 assessed 7:7 base 19:23
20:6,6 6:15 10:19,22 Apparently 15:3 13:21 34:16,18 basis 47:4 48:14
57:11 13:25 14:22,23 appeals 8:13 42:18 53:13 becoming 12:21
Agriculture's 1:14 13:11,13 24:23 2:4,7,10 3:8
23:19,24 ahead 44:7 51:19 apply 23:19 assuming 5:12 16:22 27:2 56:2
28:24 AL 1:3 30:19,20 56:6,7 42:15 believe 12:18,22
36:4,9 ALITO 17:22 56:20,22 attached 10:23 13:22 43:18
41:8,12 18:4,7,13 33:5 argue 42:12 19:16 28:19 54:11 56:4
49:2,2,25 33:15,24 34:12 argued 52:17 31:8 believed 12:11
34:15 48:9 arguing 19:23 attaches 51:8 16:14 19:15
allegedly 27:8 argument 1:12 attempted 6:14 36:25 47:20
40:6 amount 20:13 51:18 avoids 47:17 breaks 36:14
53:12 34:11,16,18 arm's-length a.m 1:13 3:2 58:2 Breyer 19:22
21:1,5,11 57:6,20,21 28:4,10 53:18 24:11 27:12,19 34:19 35:21
36:15 captions 3:19 55:23 57:25 30:5 34:11 35:4 38:1,5 39:7,12
38:8 car 51:4,8,11 children 43:12 36:3 37:9,15,24 40:9,12,20,24
care 4:15 choice 32:5 38:11,14,19,22 41:1,19,22 42:7
46:8 careful 27:7 54:13,14 38:23 39:1,3,13 43:7,8,10,15
51:3 case 3:4,12 5:25 choose 16:25 39:20 40:3,9 44:25 48:1,8
52:5 6:18 7:1,3,14 Circuit 7:23 41:6,19 42:16 50:1 56:9,14,17
46:20 51:1 12:2 13:11,17 23:10 26:3,16 44:7 46:17 48:8 17:2
56:6 15:22,25 16:2 27:20 28:6,12 52:12,13,16 competitive
32:17 25:17 26:3 27:9 42:12,23,25 clause 11:10 47:25 52:3
33:5 35:24 43:5 44:8 46:20 47:19 completely 10:10
12:11 cases 3:19 23:20 46:20 51:1 19:14 36:17 compliant 48:7
30:10 25:13,20,21 cited 35:24,25 close 39:6,10,16 complies 12:17
45:9 46:1 27:22,22 36:1,2 city 7:3,9 39:24,25 52:10 comply 13:1,21
49:1 39:14 40:23 claim 5:4,12 7:24 52:21,21 16:24 32:10
certainly 3:17 34:12,16 37:5,7 51:16 53:19 conceding 28:23
27:14 33:19 43:15 42:1,4,23 43:1 commercial 34:6
46:19 57:6 47:4,19 48:5,6 Committee conceptualized
24:17 44:5 45:7 52:24 53:3,5,15 51:1,1 concluding 28:20
9:22 10:16 changing 28:5 claims 8:1,7,21 12:9 condition 38:3
16:3 characterize 9:8,16 11:11,15 compensation confiscation 7:16
25:2 30:3 34:23 11:19,24 13:13 7:5,7 11:14 confused 3:19
33:13 charged 53:12 14:12,24 17:24 20:17 22:5,11 29:10
49:16 Chief 3:3,9 25:24 21:12,13,16,19 22:21 24:21 confusion 27:24
54:23 57:2 26:23 27:3,25 21:21 22:11 30:5 33:8,14 Congress 21:23
36:9 38:9 correctly 39:3 critical 34:7 51:15 district 13:25
39:6 43:5 54:3 46:16 delighted 5:18 14:3 15:1 24:1
40:4,8 Costello 19:25 criticize 53:20 deliver 6:16 32:24 35:5,12
56:8,11 counsel 27:6 demand 6:14 37:8 38:17
count 52:22 D 1:3 3:1 32:11 doing 3:21 10:17
44:14 48:10 57:9,11 54:17 Department 1:6 dollar-for-dollar
course 10:7 day 40:7 1:18 3:4 4:13 34:6,24 35:6,9
40:4 44:13 dealing 35:3 10:22 13:25 due 45:6 47:21
29:3 7:1,11,12,15 decades 37:22 19:4,16 20:5 D.C 1:8,15,18
7:25 8:7,13,20 deceased 4:6 23:25 24:25
11:19,23 13:13 decide 29:5,24 depends 9:9 E 2:1 3:1,1
15:1 17:24 44:9 49:13 54:2 deployed 36:10 Eastern 34:9
37:5 38:3 22:10,23,24 26:3 29:25 21:14 56:19
41:21 24:1,11 26:10 30:10 33:19 determination either 15:9,9
27:4,19 28:9 47:23 54:3 26:11 17:13 20:4
35:4,5,13 36:2 decision 14:2 different 3:20 eliminated 12:12
38:12,18 38:23 39:1,3,13 deems 13:12 32:7 53:17 enforced 17:19
39:20 40:3,9,24 defeats 34:23 55:10 enforcing 57:14
42:16 43:9,25 28:15,17,21 disagree 52:15 enjoyment 26:19
49:23 51:16,22 48:16 50:1 54:4 discuss 13:18 44:4,9
46:24 55:18,19,22 defects 33:23 35:5 36:1 44:4 entering 30:8
25:11,12 create 38:9 defensive 25:23 19:2 11:14 14:3
29:6,7 created 45:7 defensively disputes 8:9 22:25 48:11
48:19 creating 4:23 41:11 distinct 35:16 entity 4:24 5:13
creature 4:23 defined 50:12,22 distinguish 4:14 5:24 13:11
factual 3:16 Florida 25:17 given 11:7 44:2 53:23
10:24 fails 33:13 Forget 51:4 go 5:3 6:5 8:20 grower 39:19
32:15 failure 27:18 forgot 24:4 9:14,15 11:19 guess 12:2
faith 51:24 57:14 17:8,24,25 H
falls 22:4 forward 48:6 20:2,18 21:12 handed 22:9
41:1,20 9:8 17:24 22:10 frankly 54:6 38:10 41:6,19 12:12,19,21
34:10 37:8 free 15:19 16:7 42:16,16 43:12 14:17,19,23
fee 6:10 10:2 free-tonnage goes 5:9 39:20 15:12 16:3
file 30:22 35:13 15:23 50:6 29:23 32:11,16 45:9,18,19,24
20:21 32:20 44:2 44:20 38:10 40:1,2 46:24,25 47:12
find 48:17 fumigating 10:17 42:15 43:16,19 47:16 49:20
20:15 21:4,20 G 3:1 56:15 57:10 14:5,6,13 15:14
23:2 37:4 41:25 General 1:18 government 6:9 16:19 18:11,13
fined 20:12 22:22 30:10 35:12 12:14 17:5,13 30:17,19,20
7:25 21:20 24:3 15:15 19:8 28:17 33:7 37:9 56:22,23
48:5 26:15 27:25 29:19 41:2,13 48:25 49:3,4 handler-only
37:19 41:23 56:4 47:15
43:12 44:2 fit 37:15 49:20 17:14 31:17,19 grace 53:19 handles 4:11,12
51:18 flexibility 40:6 31:22 38:19 ground 8:15 26:7 4:25
imposed 31:3 33:16 46:21 knew 12:9 30:9legality 19:21
including 48:25 issued 6:1 7:9 38:18 43:18 letters 31:20
39:4 50:22 26:16 44:3 49:5 50:20 32:7
40:24 inconsistent 26:8 51:4 let's 13:10,10,13
48:19 incorrect 41:3 J knowing 52:1 53:4
inform 7:22 JOSEPH 1:17 label 28:19 limited 4:22
injury 16:1,2 13:10 18:9,11 28:8 38:23
8:6 inspection 32:21 jurisdictional Lassen 4:6 logic 10:13
11:7,20 instance 33:1 7:19,22,23 8:11 late 44:3 long 38:4
16:3,13 46:19 8:14,16,17 24:6 latitude 40:11 longer 8:9,10
instinctive 37:17 24:9,12 26:14 Laughter 20:23 look 3:19 6:13
14:9 36:24 42:5,24 M
40:13 interest 6:8
22:2 45:22 49:10 making 15:5,11
28:22 lawbreaker's 35:13 37:4
16:23
48:21 42:6 manifestly 26:7
13:9 42:10,13 lawsuit 9:14 10:25 11:1
53:1,4,7,11 leave 34:15 marketing 11:9
36:7 37:5,7 40:15,25 legal 4:10,17,19 MARVIN 1:3
17:20,21 meet 17:5 myriad 36:13 objection 26:15 10:7
30:25 mere 52:21 mysterious 26:2 38:16 53:22 ought 15:8 29:10
44:18 merit 36:3 mystery 50:24 obligated 17:4 29:15 44:7
45:22 merits 3:12 5:2 obligation 17:6 outcome 33:21
5:19 6:22 7:18 N 31:24,25 outdated 49:10
2:3,9 3:6,7 26:17 29:16 narrow 47:17 30:17,19 31:3 owners 25:14
4:5,9,13 34:20 42:11 53:16 54:22 32:18,20 47:13 owns 4:1,11,23
5:6,17,22 43:22,24 44:10 nature 47:18 47:15 5:13,13 31:1
6:11 7:21 47:2 49:24 50:1 Nebraska 22:17 obscure 18:20 45:24
9:4,9 54:19,22 55:1,3 necessarily officer's 10:14
11:5,16 55:10,12 57:19 25:12 Oh 16:10 18:24 P
12:4,8 MICHAEL 1:15 necessary 35:2 okay 12:1 21:5,5 P 3:1
14:4 2:3,9 3:7 56:1 need 24:11 41:18 32:1 37:1 46:22 Pacific 22:17
15:7 mind 5:11 54:16,24 52:6 23:3,22 57:18
16:5,9 minutes 48:10 needs 27:7 old 19:25 25:22 packing 10:18
17:7 55:25 neighbors 12:24 once 39:17 56:14 57:10
18:2,6 missing 45:25 never 10:21 56:14 page 2:2 10:13
Missouri 22:17 12:19,24,25 ones 9:23 14:11 56:7
20:21,24 23:3,22 57:18 15:21 45:19,24 43:14 pages 50:25
22:1 misunderstand... 46:3,4 one-for-one 34:6 paid 6:2,10 9:12
23:14 51:24 new 18:18 26:16 operate 15:22 9:19 10:10
24:5,10 misunderstood 30:10 45:8,8 39:17 11:17 14:10
25:6 48:15 Ninth 7:23 20:19 operating 12:14 18:2,4 20:15,16
26:6 model 9:17 15:13 21:11 23:10 opinion 10:14 21:4 40:12,22
31:20 15:16 16:6,11 26:2,15 27:20 22:23 26:16 56:14
38:2 45:5 30:11,12 47:14 28:6,12,16 29:3 29:20 34:3 Palmore 1:17 2:6
55:25 56:1 monetary 6:23 29:4,13,15 44:15,20 48:12 26:25 27:1,3,15
57:1 10:24 17:15 33:11,17 42:11 48:13 50:9 27:18 28:2,6,13
18:8,21 money 9:21,25 44:8 48:15,16 opposed 35:10 29:18,23 31:18
28:25 10:2,9,10 11:12 48:17 49:8,13 opposition 28:2 31:23 32:2,5
35:2,9 11:18 13:21 49:17 53:22 opt 40:10 33:9,19 34:2,13
38:11 17:14 20:13,14 54:9 option 49:13 34:21 35:14
47:3 50:9 27:11 32:9 33:7 normal 25:9 45:9 options 40:17 37:3,18 38:21
33:7,18 34:11 Norwood 7:2 oral 1:11 2:2,5 39:23 40:4 41:2
17:3 39:2,20 41:25 noses 43:13 order 5:25 11:9 42:22 43:21
57:15 number 3:11 14:25 15:18 45:3,16 46:3,11
40:21 morning 3:4 31:5 41:5 47:24 50:12,16,21
movie 19:25
55:5,11 people's 52:8,12 49:17 prices 36:21,23 24:17 30:7 33:1
52:13,16 pointless 21:23 43:12,20 38:25 40:22
29:20 percentage 5:15 points 56:4 57:23 principles 14:1 45:11 47:10,10
48:11,13 period 37:8 55:3 policy 18:22,22 prior 29:20 44:14 53:3,10
permitting 16:21 36:22 44:15 48:13 produces 4:12,17
23:3 poor 43:12 35:19 38:4 50:6 producing 14:6
12:16 26:13 35:25 30:3,5,6,6 50:3 program 19:3,13
34:7 28:3 29:1 49:4 position 6:12,21 53:17 57:20 36:18 37:11,12
49:6 6:21 35:24 41:8 problems 30:4 38:13 39:8,21
Petitioners 1:4 possess 50:13,23 procedures 44:5,6,17 45:17
50:2,17 52:17 possession 10:19 41:17,18 42:2 proper 9:8 39:11
54:14 56:2 10:19 47:16,20 53:12 properly 27:19
30:11 10:23 proceedings property 6:23
16:7 46:10 practical 8:18 47:21 52:4 38:4 41:14,16
21:3,6,20 plan 12:11,11,15 17:20 processed 30:25 41:17 42:6
31:16 12:16 precedence processing 10:16 45:12,14 46:15
40:2 43:14 plant 57:10 40:19 processor 12:19 50:6 52:8
playing 52:3 precedent 6:25 produce 9:3 proposition
46:3,4 please 3:10 27:21 28:7 42:4 14:17 25:22 42:8
35:16,24 preclude 40:9 8:23 9:8,11,12 provided 39:7
23:2 pocket 57:5 prepared 26:9,10 37:22 39:1 49:2
32:4 pocketbook 16:1 present 52:4 45:18,23 49:18 providing 12:23
53:13 16:2 preserved 33:21 49:19 provisions 40:16
25:8 27:16 32:6 presumably 8:19 9:3,5,18 50:6
20:3,5 48:1 49:16 prevail 15:8 15:23,25 16:8 purchasers
52:9 53:22 prevailed 8:12 17:24,25 18:12 19:24
pointed 29:19 preview 5:18 18:14 19:2,3,6 pure 18:12,14
36:25 39:8 41:5 43:12 28:18 29:1 49:4 reserve 9:12 ruled 28:16
45:23 49:6 15:20,21 26:21 rules 52:3
55:3,10 relation 52:9 residing 24:2 sanctions 31:25
9:2 36:11 44:7 46:7 relevant 8:24,25 resisted 43:4 16:12 28:5
14:8,9 52:10 54:20 relied 28:8,10 Respondent 1:19 29:10 32:8,10
23:7 55:4 34:5 54:9 2:7 27:2 41:3 53:23
34:20 reason 10:12 relief 24:14 response 16:5 says 13:16 20:8
39:6,10 18:22 33:13,14 rely 28:11 55:22 responses 38:22 20:10 21:12,19
41:14 reasoning 48:11 remaining 26:21 responsible 22:19 29:12
reasons 23:15 55:25 10:11,12,15 30:11 32:12
51:9 54:3 27:13,14 34:3 remand 26:4 reversing 53:22 38:8 42:12 50:4
55:4,10 34:14 35:16 29:4,10,24 review 26:9 50:9
57:19 36:13 49:24 33:20,21 48:14 29:17 31:10,11 Scalia 5:1,7,8
47:18 45:6 remanded 48:10 46:24 47:16 18:21 24:3,8
21:15 recognize 55:8 23:25 54:13 7:21 8:4 11:8 32:1,3 38:7,21
47:8 52:19 records 30:23 remedy 14:3 12:7 13:6,19 39:15,25 46:8
34:4 38:2 39:12 44:6 18:6 19:3 20:1 scheme 11:2
Regional 40:19 repeated 56:8 29:12 31:14,22 schemes 33:2
23:3 regulated 13:11 representing 9:3 51:14 52:8 second 4:3,25
57:19 19:3,12 47:12 9:5 55:14 23:19 32:11
25:14 13:1 22:20 23:24 river 36:20 secondly 56:13
36:20 regulatory 11:2 34:9 road 7:4 57:5
30:13,19 31:2 requirement ROBERTS 3:3 Secretary 40:10
45:14 31:23,25 32:17 24:10 30:9,21 26:23 27:25 section 31:10
53:3,5 32:22 45:17 30:21,22,23 28:4,10 53:18 47:9
53:20 50:17 51:17,23 39:2 40:14 roles 47:11 secure 30:14
somebody 35:13 47:8 56:16 supplemented talking 18:11
5:23 6:5,12 57:17 43:11 51:15
29:25 16:6,10,16,20 18:25 sure 10:5,8 37:18 terrible 44:11
32:17 17:8,16 24:16 strenuously 44:10 Thank 26:22,23
35:13 25:5,8 27:5 29:24 54:2 surely 38:12 27:3 55:23
49:15,16 45:2,4,25 46:7 strict 52:20 surprising 3:11 57:24,25
46:12 54:18,24 strictly 30:7 50:18 theirs 27:10
56:24 string 25:13,20 theory 37:19
37:13 sought 48:1 subject 8:18 table 48:5 44:2
36:16 52:16,18,20,24 28:20 11:17 21:17 19:17 20:17
34:8 35:19 stands 33:5 42:8 substituting takes 36:19,24 29:7 32:6 33:22
41:11 57:15,15 26:17 39:19 41:15 34:2,22 35:14
50:3 start 27:5 sue 38:19 45:19,20 52:8 36:6,17,22 37:5
started 23:9 27:6 sued 48:7 takings 7:24 8:6 38:8 39:11,15
States 1:1,12 suggested 11:21 27:12 30:2 43:25 44:5 46:8
statute 35:18 suit 35:13 55:16 53:19 54:2,5,21
56:11,19 23:24 24:18 25:23 49:14,24 55:14
28:24 35:17 USDA 31:7 51:2 want 11:12 13:17 withdraw18:17
57:4 turn 12:14 26:1 37:25 39:2 50:20
34:8 30:2 22:17 25:18 wanted 7:18 44:11
42:14 turns 15:5 valid 37:12 43:18 48:6 works 45:17
30:2 4:17 17:20 27:9 10:25 11:1 Washington 1:8 40:12
54:4 28:21 29:14 15:23 16:21 1:15,18 write 44:9
30:4 32:7 35:14 25:10 wasn't 15:3 wrong 8:2 20:1
victory 44:15 40:15 43:1 48:22,22,25
57:14 U view 26:16 28:18 44:17 45:16 51:19 54:15
20:12,14 21:7 viewed 27:19 weird 38:20 x 1:2,7
36:18 39:18 28:14 36:8 went 14:11 28:12
42:18 Village 7:1 Y
52:7 violate 16:25 year 39:18,19
31:24 40:1,2,12,13
45:10 51:2 weren't 9:25 14:5
56:7 36:1
55:16 violation 11:10 we're 9:4 11:14 $2,000 7:7,11
48:4,9 42:24 52:1 40:2 44:23 55:1 $700,000 19:19
W
wide 40:11 10:10 1:13 3:2
56:1 willful 30:13 52:1
23:8 26:9 14 31:10
14(a) 19:1
49:7 win 29:21 47:5
23:19 1969 30:7 37:23
1:9 14:15
30:6,18
47:22
1:9
19:18
2:7
2:4 55:25
56:7
2:10
48:2
47:9
10:13
50:25
14:15
