IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
GREG MCQUIGGIN, WARDEN :
Petitioner : No. 12-126
v. :
FLOYD PERKINS :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, February 25, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ., Michigan Solicitor General,
Lansing, Michigan; on behalf of Petitioner.
CHAD A. READLER, ESQ., Columbus, Ohio; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
CHAD A. READLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 60
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 12-126, McQuiggin v. Perkins.
Mr. Bursch?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. BURSCH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BURSCH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
We're not dealing here with the situation
where a prisoner is trying to gather new evidence AEDPA
has a tolling rule to take care of that problem.
We're also not dealing with anything that prevents
Petitioner from filing because that's the problem you
solved in Holland.
What we have here is the question of when a
petitioner must file his Federal habeas petition when he
has the evidence and there are no barriers to filing.
And 2244(d)(1)(D) addresses that exact question. It
says, "within 1 year."
Now, Mr. Perkins asks for a fairly dramatic
expansion of Holland. What he wants is equitable
abrogation with no diligence, no fault, or any other
factor. And our primary position is that you should
simply apply the plain language of 2244(d)(1)(D).
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Bursch, I thought
that -- that Perkins -- didn't he say that -- that you
could take into account -- I'm looking for the
brief -- you could take into account delay as a factor
in whether his actual innocence gateway plea should be
heard.
MR. BURSCH: Well, he -- he does say that,
and we read that as a concession that, sometimes, if you
wait too long, that can actually trump a claim of actual
innocence. And so, at a minimum, our alternative
position is that you have to act with diligence.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's not quite what
he's saying. We've had a miscarriage of justice
exception for as long as there's been a habeas statute.
We've applied it repeatedly.
It's not that it trumps it, but that it puts
into doubt the evidence you're claiming, proves your
actual innocence. It's not the sort of situation where,
as reasonable -- as due diligence will do, which is to
override even an actually innocent person.
MR. BURSCH: Well, we think it --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What he says is it -- it
really puts into question the validity of your claim.
MR. BURSCH: But, Justice Sotomayor,
it -- it represents the same kind of principle, you've
got to act quickly, or adverse consequences can happen.
But what diligence does that his rule doesn't do is it
recognizes this compelling, countervailing State
interest in having notice and an opportunity to
investigate evidence, as soon as it's discovered.
Now -- and the problem here -- we don't have
any issue at all, if it takes 10, 15, 100 years to find
new evidence, but once he has that evidence, the burden
is on him to come forward, so that the State has the
opportunity to investigate. And the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's a small point and
doesn't go to the general issues you have to discuss
with us, but just, on the small point, he gets -- I
forget exactly the detail -- he gets an affidavit that
Jones did it within a year. He has one.
MR. BURSCH: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now, if I were the
prisoner, I'd say -- you know, this one might not work.
Maybe I can get two, and then he gets a second, which
makes a certain amount of sense to me -- although a
substantial period of time elapses -- and the same thing
happens with the third.
It makes sense to me that the prisoner might
try to wait for the third. How -- how does that factor
into your diligence, assuming we get there?
MR. BURSCH: Yes. Justice Kennedy, there's
a very simple solution to that problem. If he gets
close to the end of his year and he thinks that that
next affidavit might be just around the corner, but he
doesn't have it yet, all he has to do is file a
protective habeas petition with the district court, ask
for a stay, and say, I'm still diligently pursuing what
I think is going to be another affidavit. And, if he
can't find that next affidavit, you litigate it on the
merits, and, if he does, then he amends his petition,
and then you hear it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not quite -- excuse
me -- I'm not quite sure that wouldn't mean that you
have a whole raft of -- of petition-protective decisions
waiting on the shelf in the district court. That --
that -- that causes its own congestion problems in the
district court, it seems to me.
MR. BURSCH: Two thoughts on that. First,
we already see this in the exhaustion area. There are
petitioners who are concerned that, notwithstanding
statutory tolling for pursuing State remedies, that,
while they're monkeying around in State court, they
might somehow be time-barred from bringing their Federal
claim.
So we see this all the time in the Sixth
Circuit -- you know, in Michigan in particular, that
someone will file their petition and -- and ask for a
stay while they exhaust State remedies. So -- you know,
the pile really isn't going to be any different
than it is right now.
But the key difference between that scenario
and the scenario that Perkins proposes is that, when you
have him file something, the State's on notice, they
have an opportunity to investigate.
Now, here, we have his last affidavit from
the dry cleaning clerk, and it's 10 years old. So, even
if Michigan could find that person, there's no way for
us to meaningfully cross-examine her and investigate
what she really knew or didn't know when she wrote that
affidavit 10 years ago.
And so with the file and stay, you preserve
all of the rights, but, yet, you give the State the
countervailing interest that the statute was meant to
protect. And I do want to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What would it take to --
what would it take to show diligence? And didn't he say
that he tried to get a lawyer, several times, and was
unsuccessful?
MR. BURSCH: Sure. And that's a very
practical question that I'd like to address. Most of
the habeas petitioners don't have lawyers, but filing
the habeas petition itself is not something that takes
great difficulty. Every district court, on their
website, has a place where you click for forms. In the
Eastern District of Michigan, when you click that, the
very first two entries are habeas petitions for Federal
prisoners and State prisoners.
And it's a relatively simple form. You
check some boxes, say when your conviction was, and you
write your claim. And then every Federal district court
in the country has full-time pro se staff attorneys who
go through these pro se petitions.
And, if there is a legitimate claim there,
then they can work that up for the judge, if necessary,
and the State will respond. So --
JUSTICE ALITO: I have some difficulty
understanding what the Sixth Circuit was doing. And
maybe you can help me with that. The district court, as
I understand it, said to the Petitioner, you lose for
two reasons. First, you don't really have evidence of
actual innocence, not enough anyway; and, second -- and
I can understand that, because the evidence -- well,
that -- the most that is suggested by the affidavits is
that Jones was a participant in this murder, not that
Perkins was not responsible for the murder.
But, anyway, so you lose for two reasons.
First, you don't really have evidence of actual
innocence; second, you weren't diligent. The Sixth
Circuit grants a certificate of appealability only on
the issue of diligence, and they say, diligence doesn't
make any difference.
Well, where does that leave the petitioner?
He's already lost on the question of whether there's
evidence of actual innocence, and there was no appeal on
that issue.
MR. BURSCH: Well, we're very confused about
that, too. They do say, in their opinion, that the case
is remanded to the district court to determine whether
he's got evidence of actual innocence. Now, as you just
pointed out, Judge Bell in the district court already
made that determination, so maybe they're contemplating
an evidentiary hearing or some further investigation,
but it is curious because --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that -- that may be
what they're contemplating, but they can't get to the
issue of whether the district court adequately addressed
the issue of adequate innocence -- of actual innocence,
unless that issue is before them. And the issue isn't
supposed to be before them, unless -- isn't before them,
unless the certificate of appealability was issued, and
there was no certificate of appealability on that issue.
MR. BURSCH: We agree with that 100 percent,
so --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was that -- was that
argued to the -- to the Sixth Circuit? Did you argue in
the Sixth Circuit that, even assuming diligence, there
wasn't enough here, and that's what the district court
held?
MR. BURSCH: I believe that is the position
of the State of Michigan, that because he confessed to
his friends, both before and after --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it -- it was
explicitly made to the Sixth Circuit?
MR. BURSCH: I believe that the Sixth
Circuit argument did focus on the question of diligence.
But -- you know, our opinion would be that, even if this
Court would use -- you know, what we call equitable
abrogation, to kind of wipe away the 1-year limitations
period, and you would also disagree on diligence, and we
don't think you should do that, that you would still
reverse because there's nothing left to be done in the
district court.
This is not a case that rises to the very,
very high threshold of proving actual innocence, based
on new evidence. I would like to get back to the
statutory language.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Where does that leave
us?
MR. BURSCH: I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume --
MR. BURSCH: Well, that leaves you with a
reversal in any of those three instances. We think that
you should address the circuit split, which is the
important question of do we apply the limitations
period. And, to turn to that, what I would like to do
is set up an analytical construct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's sort of an advisory
opinion, in your judgment.
MR. BURSCH: Oh, no, it wouldn't be an
advisory opinion. It would --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Sure, it would be
because you're telling us that there is no proof of
actual innocence.
MR. BURSCH: I'm saying that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why don't we just say
that?
MR. BURSCH: I'm saying that's an
alternative ground to get to the same place, but the
Sixth Circuit's holding was, consistent with some other
circuits, that there is no statute of limitations here,
that you can get by with equitable abrogation, as we
call it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It might be its holding,
but, as Justice Alito just proved, there's no basis for
it because they didn't grant a COA on the substantive
merits question.
MR. BURSCH: Right. I -- I think you're
wholly within your right to address the merits question,
and I would like to turn to that.
The analytical construct I want to set up is
that we've got three different categories of prisoners
who claim actual innocence, based on new evidence. In
the first category, they used that new evidence only to
try to establish innocence with no constitutional claim.
And, in Herrera, you say no Federal habeas remedy for
that; you have to go back to the State courts, executive
clemency, prosecutorial discharging of verdicts, and
things like that.
The second category is where you have a
prisoner who uses new evidence as a gateway. It's not
related to the constitutional claim that they assert --
the true Schlup gateway. And that's not actually this
case, either, and you could reserve that question,
although I'm happy to talk about that.
The case we have here is the third instance,
where the evidence of actual innocence -- the new
evidence, is the factual predicate for the claim. And
you could not find a provision more on all fours with
that category than what Congress did in 2244(d)(1)(D).
And we know that Congress was thinking about actual
innocence in Schlup.
For those of you who are interested in the
context, in the legislative debate in '95 and '96,
before AEDPA's enactment, we have Senators Feingold and
Kennedy and Dodd, among others, talking about how this
new statute is going to eliminate claims of actual
innocence based on new evidence. In fact, Senator
Feingold even mentioned the Schlup decision.
And, yet, Congress adopts 2244(d)(1)(D) and
all the rest of the provisions by a 91 to 8 vote. So
Congress had this Court's decision in Schlup in the back
of its mind, it considered this particular construct and
it said, no, we want a 1-year limitations period.
I do want to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your -- your three-way
classification, you began with Herrera?
MR. BURSCH: Correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and, in a way,
you're saying that you're three loops back in the
Herrera a bit because, here, the innocence is the
factual predicate.
MR. BURSCH: Right. And, in the Herrera
case, there is no constitutional claim, so there is no
factual predicate. It's just a stand-alone "I'm
innocent" claim. And this Court has said, appropriately
so, that the Federal habeas remedy doesn't cover that.
You know, if you think about the remedies
you can get from State courts, from prosecutors, from
executive clemency, it's a rather big circle, and AEDPA
is a much smaller circle that's subsumed in that. And
you recognize, in Herrera, that, just because you don't
fall within the habeas circle, doesn't mean that you
can't get relief.
In fact, if you look at the examples that
the amici briefs cite on the Respondent's side, in
almost every case, the final decision is motivated by
State action. There's a governor who grants clemency in
a couple of cases, there's a State attorney general's
office that dismisses charges in others, county
prosecutors who do the same. One, which the amicus
brief characterizes as a habeas grant, is actually the
Illinois Court of Appeals in a State proceeding
reversing.
You know, what the -- these are the best
examples that they have for why you need an equitable
abrogation rule, and, yet, in the vast majority of those
cases, it's the State system that's solving the problem.
Now, I do want to go back to what I think
is -- is the trickiest question, and that's,
Justice Kennedy, the second category of prisoners, those
who are using actual innocence to prove, not their
underlying constitutional claim, but, simply, the Schlup
gateway. And I would respectfully submit that, even
there, Congress has closed the door with 2244(d)(1)(D).
And the best way to understand that is by
looking two subprovisions earlier in the second and
successive petitions category. And this argument that
I'm going to make now is a little bit different than the
way we -- we did it in the brief, which was -- you know,
they had it there, they -- they don't have it here.
If you look at 2244 --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Before you present the
argument --
MR. BURSCH: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- you are saying that
Congress overruled Schlup; is that what -- the point
you're making?
MR. BURSCH: The -- the contextual point
that I was making was that Congress knew about Schlup,
it was brought up in the debate that this was,
essentially, changing the Schlup rule and allowing
someone who claims actual innocence not to present their
claim, and Congress swept those objections aside by a 91
to 8 vote.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that was with
respect to successive petitions.
MR. BURSCH: No, they were talking in the --
the legislative record, just generally, about actual
innocence and claims of miscarriage of justice.
So -- so the textual argument that I want to
present involving successive petitions is that, when
you're looking at 2244, you flow from successive
petitions down to the statute of limitations.
What that means is that, if you have a
successive petition, Congress requires you to prove
actual innocence and diligence, and you still have to
prove that you satisfied the statute of limitations.
The Seventh Circuit recognized this in the Escamilla
case.
So what that means is that, even when
Congress had a situation where they knew that someone
had presented evidence that would satisfy a heightened
actual innocence standard, they still required that you
satisfy the statute of limitations.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where -- where is that in
the text? What are you relying on in the text of 2244?
MR. BURSCH: I'm relying on 2244(b), which
is the successive petition provision. It requires you
to, first, prove that you've got evidence of actual
innocence and then also demonstrate that you had
diligence.
And, after you're already gotten through
what I'll call the actual innocence statutory gateway,
you're still required to satisfy the statute of
limitations. If Congress was concerned about Schlup and
wanted to make a situation where someone with evidence
of actual innocence did not have to comply with the
limitations period, they would have put an exception in
the successive petition subprovision and they didn't do
that, so --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you don't have
2244(b)in your brief, do you?
MR. BURSCH: Unfortunately, the text is not
there, no.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That is very -- that is
unfortunate.
MR. BURSCH: Yes. Well, as we explained in
the briefs, the fact --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you're relying on it, I
mean.
MR. BURSCH: Well, as we explained in the
briefs, both parties rely on that. The fact that you
have an actual innocence exception only two
subprovisions earlier is strong reason to think Congress
didn't intend it here.
But I'm making a different argument now,
which is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Go
ahead.
MR. BURSCH: Which is simply that Congress
considered the -- the instance where you've establish a
statutory actual innocence gateway in (b)(2), the
successive petition, and still require that it be timely
filed, because the State's interest in having notice and
an opportunity to investigate is so important.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But are -- are you saying
that this case is a fortiori from a successive petition?
Because this isn't a successive petition.
MR. BURSCH: No, this is not. What I'm
using the successive petition provision to demonstrate
is that, consistent with the legislative history,
Congress is demonstrating here, in 2244(d)(1)(D), that
there is no special actual innocence --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You don't see a
difference -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you're saying that
Congress knows how to write --
MR. BURSCH: Yes, I am --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- an exception if -- if
they want it. But this (b) does apply to successive
petitions and this is really before that.
MR. BURSCH: Well, my -- my point is that,
if Congress anticipated that actual innocence could be a
gateway to circumvent the limitations period, then
certainly they would have put that exception in the
successive petition of (b)(2) where they said, all
right, if you establish actual innocence, we're still
going to make you comply with the limitations period.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, now, your
friend on the other side, I think, argues that that --
they put that in expressly because they limited what
would be the otherwise applicable miscarriage of justice
provision in the question that's before us now.
MR. BURSCH: Right. And if you would --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is your -- what
is your answer to that?
MR. BURSCH: If he was right about that,
then in (b), you would also see another provision that
says and anyone who satisfies this statutory actual
innocence standard doesn't have to comply with the
limitations period. And we think that -- that's
dispositive.
Now -- you know, when we --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I don't
understand. I mean, there is a presumption that's been
longstanding that, at least with respect to the filing
of your first petition, that it is a statute of
limitations subject to exceptions, including the
manifest injustice one.
It would seem to me that if they intended
not to have that apply, they would have done what they
did with the successive petition, but they chose not to.
MR. BURSCH: Justice Sotomayor, the history
of this statute and of the case law isn't quite that
way. And I want to draw a sharp distinction between
this case and Holland, with respect to history. With
respect to equitable tolling, you did have decisions
going back to the 1800s recognizing that Federal
statutes of limitation in all kinds of contexts, civil
and criminal, were subject to equitable tolling.
And so then, in Irwin, 6 years before AEDPA,
you actually create a presumption that, if Congress
doesn't specifically -- you know, exclude equitable
tolling --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not talking about
that presumption.
MR. BURSCH: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What I'm talking
about --
MR. BURSCH: Now, I'm going to move to
miscarriage of justice.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- are cause and effect
and manifest injustice.
MR. BURSCH: Yes. So the cause and effect,
the manifest injustice, the actual innocence, really
starts to develop in 1986, and it comes to fruition in
Schlup in 1995, right before AEDPA is passed.
Importantly, that exception was always applied to
court-created procedural bars, never once to a Federal
statute of limitations.
And, obviously, the separation of powers
considerations are quite different when you're talking
about a court-created exception to a court-created bar.
The first is a bar that's enforced by Congress itself.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you're creating a world
in which this would function as an exception to a State
time limit, but not to the AEDPA time limit.
MR. BURSCH: That's correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Why does that make any
sense?
MR. BURSCH: Because it was the Court itself
that created the judicial exception to the State filing.
And so then -- or, I'm sorry, that created the bar with
respect to the State filing. And so then it was
completely within the Court's power to make an exception
to that bar.
But, again, here, the separation of powers
considerations militate differently when you're talking
about Congress doing the telling, and this Court has
acknowledged, in Launcher and Dodd and other places,
that Congress gets to set the parameters of habeas.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But I thought we said, in
Missouri v. Holland, that AEDPA was -- was enacted
against a background rule, which stated that normal
equitable principles, such as this one, which had been
applied everywhere to all procedural bars, that AEDPA
suggested that those would -- that AEDPA was
against a background that those would continue to apply.
MR. BURSCH: Well, it was a very short
background, one with no Irwin-like presumption and one
that, again, had never ever been applied to a Federal
statute of limitations. And --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But why is a Federal statute
of limitations any different?
MR. BURSCH: Because it's Congress and
Congress is the one that's handcuffing the Court with
respect to the scope of the --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, but, again, it's
Congress but we said, in Holland, that it's Congress
and AEDPA has -- has -- was drafted against this
presumption that normal equitable principles would
apply.
MR. BURSCH: But here's another way to think
about it -- you know, if you imagine the -- the template
that you have on your Microsoft Word, when you're doing
a document, an opinion, whatever, you've got certain
stuff that's on the template. And you said, in Irwin,
that when it comes to equitable tolling, you've always
got a subprovision Z, call it, in every Federal statute
of limitations that appears on that template, And so
Congress has to do something affirmatively to strike
that out.
Because the miscarriage of justice exception
had never been applied to any Federal -- Federal statute
of limitations, there wasn't a miscarriage of justice
exception sitting on the template. Congress was writing
from scratch.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, again, why would
Congress have thought that there would be any difference
in -- with respect to a statute of limitations?
MR. BURSCH: Well, the biggest reason is
because of the State interest in notice and
investigating the evidence. When you're talking about
the typical Schlup claim --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But that applies to States,
as well.
MR. BURSCH: Well, no, there -- there you
have stale claims, but you don't have stale evidence.
And -- you know, we -- we don't have any problem with
litigating a claim that could have been litigated
earlier and is going to be litigated now. But the world
of evidence, the record that supports the claim, is
already defined and is not going to change.
The world we're dealing with in
2244(d)(1)(D) is when new stuff has come forward, and,
if that new stuff sits in the jailhouse cell for 10, 20,
30 years and we don't have an opportunity to talk to
those witnesses, to do counter-investigation, then not
only are we prejudiced with respect to delay and
finality and things like that, but we're prejudiced with
respect to the merits determination of what that
evidence means.
And, when I talked about my three
constructs -- you know, this case, here, where you're
using the old evidence to establish the underlying
claim, that's really the position where the State is in
the worst possible position because, now, you've got
a -- you know, the dry cleaning clerk affidavit -- a
10-year-old affidavit -- we can't possibly cross-examine
her, and, yet, not only is that their gateway, that's
their substantive merits claim about why there is
ineffective assistance of counsel.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why can't you
cross-examine her? Is it just because the lapse of time
and she won't remember?
MR. BURSCH: It'll be very difficult. And
there are some examples in the amici briefs of the New
York case, for example, where witnesses were completely
unavailable. They had died, or one was out of State
and, because of mental infirmities, could not travel.
You know, we all know that, as time passes,
evidence deteriorates, whether it's because of -- of
death or illness or simply forgetfulness. I certainly
can't remember what I was doing 10 years ago today. And
the affidavit that she submitted was quite short. And
that one affidavit is just a microcosm of the problem
when you don't come forward immediately with evidence.
One other point that I want to make, really,
on the equities here because we're spending a lot of
time on that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have any idea how
many actual innocence claims win on the underlying
constitutional issue?
MR. BURSCH: Right. The number that win is
small. But what this case demonstrates is that the
number where it's claimed is very high. In fact, in
Michigan -- you know, where we deal with procedural
default every day, somewhere between a third and a half
of our petitioners claimed actual innocence, so that
they can use Schlup to get past the -- the failure to
prove cause and prejudice.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How many wins on the
attempt?
MR. BURSCH: Well, in the Sixth Circuit, a
little more than in some other circuits, but, generally,
not very many --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Not many.
MR. BURSCH: -- you know. But this case is
the perfect example. When you cut the court loose from
the statutory requirement, you end up with what
Justice Alito is describing -- you know, a situation
where no one thinks that Mr. Perkins is actually
innocent based on this new evidence; at best, it proves
that he had a co-conspirator who helped him commit the
murder together.
And, yet, now, we've got the Sixth Circuit order,
which purportedly sends us back to the trial court to
do -- you know, who knows what? I mean, how do you
prove that he's not innocent? Well, a jury already did
that.
You know, The jury heard all the evidence.
They had a presumption of innocence. All the
constitutional rules that should have been were applied
to that trial, and the jury said he's guilty, and
there's not a presumption of innocence anymore.
And -- and the equitable point that I wanted
to touch on is that this is not just about prejudicing
the State's interest. If you allow claims like these to
go forward, it also prejudices those who have legitimate
claims of actual innocence, the needle in the haystack.
And Justices O'Connor and Kennedy, in their
Herrera concurrence, talked about the haystack problem,
that, when you keep adding hay to that pile, not only is
it harder to find the needle, the truly meritorious
claim, but, at some point, the Federal judges just give
up, and they stop looking.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why -- why is it that
the meritorious claim is going to be the one that's
going to be hidden?
MR. BURSCH: Because there are so many.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Meaning --
MR. BURSCH: It's important to understand
that -- that, notwithstanding the limits that Congress
was trying to put on these habeas petitions when it
enacted AEDPA, that we actually have more habeas filings
on an annual basis today than we did before AEDPA was
enacted. It's not going to stop the filing.
This is just one small rule to cut the
haystack down a little bit and make it that much easier
to find the needle. And, if you can find that
occasional needle -- and we submit there's not a lot of
those -- Federal judges are going to be more inclined to
look for those.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you would -- you
want to keep it out altogether.
MR. BURSCH: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You want an actually --
potentially actually innocent person not to have --
MR. BURSCH: No, that is not our position.
And I want to be really clear about this. First,
they've got the year, but, if they go past the year,
they've got the State system. And what the examples in
the amici briefs demonstrate is that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they don't have the
Federal system.
MR. BURSCH: No, they don't.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: As the first habeas.
MR. BURSCH: But, as the Alabama amici brief
explains, every State has got a process for hearing these
claims, no matter how old they are. You've also got
the -- the prosecutors who look at these and they don't
want to keep innocent people in jail.
And then, lastly, you've got clemency, which
this Court has always recognized as the remedy for those
who assert true, actual innocence, but have no
constitutional violation to assert.
Unless there are further questions, I would
like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Readler?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHAD A. READLER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. READLER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
I would like to start with Justice Kagan's
question regarding the important background interpretive
principle here that's set out -- set out in Holland.
There, the Court held that longstanding equitable rules
in the habeas context are incorporated into AEDPA,
barring a clear command by Congress to the contrary.
And the longstanding miscarriage of justice
exception has had a well-settled meaning. It has
allowed petitioners, who can meet the high standing of
showing actual innocence, a procedural gateway around a
procedural bar to allow them to present their otherwise
barred constitutional claims in Federal court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Before you proceed with
that, can you address Justice Alito's point that the
district court said there is no merit to this; it's not
an actual innocence -- it's not a valid actual innocence
claim. And then the Sixth Circuit sends it back for the
district court to decide something it's already decided?
How do you overcome that the Sixth Circuit
never reviewed the actual innocence question, the
district court did and said this doesn't make it?
MR. READLER: That's correct, Justice
Ginsburg. And, with respect to Justice Alito's
question, the reform recommendation from the magistrate
denied this petition on statute of limitations grounds
solely. It said it was too late, and it missed the
statutory period.
At the district court level, the court held
that the statute of limitations was missed and that
there was no diligence; the court believed there was a
diligence requirement, and so the petition failed for
that reason.
And then, as Justice Alito noted, the court
added some other language, which said -- was not a
weighing of the evidence, but the court said that it
felt that the evidence was not new, in the sense that it
was reasonably -- potentially reasonably known at the
time of trial, which I think is one -- was, one, the
wrong legal standard, but, two, was a misinterpretation
of Schlup because Schlup allows you to consider all the
evidence, old and new.
And I don't think that's what the
district -- the district court I think applied the wrong
legal standard, so it wasn't actually getting to the
merits. It didn't sort of set out all the evidence and
weigh them.
And then, Justice Ginsburg, you are correct
that this was not part of the certificate of
appealability. The certificate of appealability was
limited on the narrow question of whether there was a
diligence requirement.
That factual issue was not before the Sixth
Circuit and hasn't -- it is not before this Court as
well, and what I think this Court should do is what it
did in Schlup, which is announce the standard that
would apply and then it remanded the case back to the
district court for application of the correct standards.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I don't understand
that. The district court -- or you seem to suggest the
district court was wrong in saying that there wasn't
sufficient evidence for an actual innocence claim.
Maybe that's the case. Maybe it was wrong.
But, if it decided that issue and the issue
wasn't appealed, then the issue is settled. And that's
the problem that I see. Now, how do you get around
that?
MR. READLER: Right. Justice Alito, I don't
read the Sixth -- or I don't read the district court as
actually getting to the merits. I think it applied a
wrong legal rule and said, I can't even consider the
evidence because it's not new evidence. I think that
was an erroneous interpretation.
Under Schlup, the -- the Court has said many
times that the court can consider all the evidence old
and new. And I think that case really turns on the --
the equitable tolling of --
JUSTICE ALITO: Did you ask for a
certificate -- what other issues did you ask for a
certificate of appealability on?
MR. READLER: Well, our client was acting
pro se.
JUSTICE ALITO: What -- what other issues
did he ask for a certificate on?
MR. READLER: Justice Alito, I don't -- I
don't have that in front of me. I don't recall the full
contours of what he requested. The certificate -- the
Sixth Circuit granted it on the one narrow issue of
whether diligence was a requirement.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you say, on
page 17 of your brief, that this Court has applied the
manifest-injustice exception to limits created by
Congress. What's your best case for that?
MR. READLER: Absolutely, Mr. Chief Justice.
Those cases are on pages 36 to 38 of the red brief, and
I think my friend and I have a disagreement here. It's
true that the -- the rule has never been applied to the
statute of limitations because there was no statute of
limitations for AEDPA before the statute, but the Court
has applied the exception to acts of Congress. It did
so in Sanders.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- what do you
mean, acts of Congress? Your sentence says, applied at
the limits created by Congress. I read that to mean
statutes of limitations. But that's wrong?
MR. READLER: Mr. Chief Justice, that --
that's incorrect, in the sense that there was no Federal
statute of limitations before AEDPA, but the Court had
applied the miscarriage of justice exception to acts of
Congress. So, for instance, in Sanders, the -- Congress
had included, in 2244, an ends-of-justice provision
which seemed to allow the Court to consider the ends of
justice when considering whether to hear a successive
petition, which is, essentially, the equivalent of
miscarriage of justice.
It did not include that language in 2255,
and, yet, the Court read 2255 as also including the
ends-of-justice requirement, hence the miscarriage of
justice, even though the language wasn't there.
In Kuhlmann --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: With 2255 -- remind
me?
MR. READLER: For Federal -- Federal
petitions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And said what with
respect to time --
MR. READLER: For Federal -- Federal
convictions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Said what with
respect to the time limits?
MR. READLER: There were -- there were --
there was language in both -- in both statutes regarding
when you could bring a successive petition. The -- the
statute that applied to petitions out of State judgment,
2254, included an ends-of-justice provision, which said
the court could consider the ends of justice in deciding
whether to take a second or successive petition.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- so, when you
said limits, you didn't mean time limits; you meant
substantive limits?
MR. READLER: Substantive -- well, no.
Procedural limits, procedural limits on -- procedural
limits.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Procedural limits.
Do you have a case that applies it to time limits?
Which, of course, is the question we have here.
MR. READLER: We do. In -- in -- now, these
would be State time limits, but --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. But you said
limits created by Congress. So just -- I mean, I should
read "limits created by Congress" not to mean time
limits, but procedural or other limits.
MR. READLER: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, there
have never been any time limits --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. And I guess
that's the point of my questioning and your friend's
position. There have never been any time limits created
by Congress that have been abrogated by a
manifest-injustice exception.
MR. READLER: I think I can agree with that
because there was never a statute of limitations before
AEDPA. But --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. And the
difference is, in Holland, we are dealing with equitable
tolling, which had applied as far back as -- you know,
whatever the law goes to limitations; in other words,
equitable tolling, which is different from the
abrogation, I think, that you are asking for.
MR. READLER: Well, I don't think so,
Mr. Chief Justice. Two responses, first, with respect
to the timing issue, the Court had applied the
miscarriage-of-justice exception to abusive petitions.
So there is a timing concern invoked there
because you're filing a second petition when you could
have raised issues earlier. And the Court has said,
even in that timing context, not a statute of
limitations, but it certainly invokes timing concerns,
that even, in that instance, the miscarriage of justice
would still overcome the rule.
Now, what --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you are asking for
what is, potentially, a very big exception to the 1-year
statute of limitations. If you took a poll of all of
the prisoners in Michigan, how many of them do you think
would say they are actually innocent?
MR. READLER: Justice Alito, I suspect very
few of them could credibly say --
JUSTICE ALITO: "Very few" would say they
are actually innocent?
MR. READLER: Well, I haven't done that
study. I suspect very few of them would say that
they -- credibly say that they are actually innocent.
JUSTICE ALITO: Oh, "credibly say." But how
many would say that they are actually innocent? A lot.
And a lot would be able to come up with evidence that is
equal to -- to what the petition -- what the Respondent
here has come up with.
Now, do you think it's -- it's plausible
that Congress, in establishing this new 1-year statute
of limitations, because it doesn't want these things to
drag on indefinitely, intended to create an exemption
that broad, so that anybody who claims to be actually
innocent can at least get over -- can get to the point
where the Court has to decide whether the -- has to
weigh this evidence of actual innocence, to see whether
it -- it gets over the threshold?
MR. READLER: Sure -
JUSTICE ALITO: Is that plausible, given
what Congress was trying to do in AEDPA?
MR. READLER: Absolutely, Justice Alito, for
two reasons. First of all, the background presumption,
of course, given the established nature of this
exception -- in fact, on Mr. Chief Justice's question,
while this exception, as compared to equitable tolling
in the criminal context, I think is actually more
important because it goes to the ultimate equity, and
that is innocence.
But the background presumption is that
Congress includes these foundational equitable rules, of
which the miscarriage of justice exception is absolutely
one of them, unless Congress expressly says otherwise.
Now, Justice Alito, no -- no petitioner is
going to want to find themselves in the Schlup world,
where they missed the statute of limitations. It is not
a place they are going to want to be. They are going to
absolutely want to file within a year, if they can.
Sometimes, they miss that -- that period,
and what the Court has said, in those rare circumstances
where you can make a credible, compelling showing of
actual innocence, we will allow you around the statute
of limitations. But no petitioner wants to be in that
circumstance because the Schlup standard is so high.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's -- I'm
not sure that's right. They don't want to definitely
file within one year, if they don't have anything to
say. You know, if it takes a certain amount of time
before they either acquire it legitimately or can find
somebody or -- I don't know, in this case -- you know,
the codefendant dies, everybody has no reason any
more -- you know, to object and pin it on him.
There are a lot of reasons that it's in some
of these prisoners' interest to drag things out and then
to file. They don't have anything to say within the one
year and need time to either, from your point of view,
legitimately develop the evidence or, from your friend's
point of view, to concoct it.
MR. READLER: Well -- and the statue speaks
to that. I mean, I think we do have a disagreement on
the interpretation of the statute, but Section
2244(d)(1)(D) does speak to the discovery of new
evidence which goes to support a claim. I think
Congress --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the statute of
limitations would run from the discovery of the new
evidence, not from --
MR. READLER: That's -- that's correct,
Justice Ginsburg, to the extent that the evidence goes
to support a claim. Congress included a typical
discovery rule. If you've discovered new evidence
that -- that supports the factual underpinnings of your
claim, that starts the one-year period over again.
But, critically -- and I think my friend and
I have a disagreement here -- critically, with respect
to that provision, if you find evidence that solely goes
to your innocence, that provision is not triggered,
meaning you don't get another year if you find
completely exculpatory evidence that shows you're not
innocent, you don't -- you don't necessarily get another
year.
And there's a hypothetical I can give you.
If your underlying claim is a Batson claim, a
structural error claim, and you fail to raise it, and
you missed the one-year limitations period, but then, 10
years later, you find DNA evidence that completely
exonerates your client that was unknown to anyone, so
it's not the basis for an IEC claim, it's not the basis
for prosecutorial misconduct, in that instance, the
statute doesn't start the limitations period over.
You're entirely out of luck, which is why
Congress had to have meant to include the absolute --
the innocence exception for just that kind of case, so
that that petitioner at least has the ability to try to
meet the Schlup standard.
JUSTICE ALITO: But that's very odd because,
if you have somebody who's actually innocent, then
you're saying that person can't get out of prison,
unless the person happens to have a good constitutional
claim that's totally unrelated to the fact that the
person is actually innocent.
That's just very odd, isn't it.
MR. READLER: Well, I don't think so,
Justice Alito, in the sense that all this is, is a
gateway to allow them their first opportunity to bring a
Federal habeas petition. Ordinarily, they're out of
luck.
But, if they brought evidence that is so
compelling, that shows that there may well have been a
miscarriage of justice because this person has shown,
under the Schlup standard that they're actually innocent,
then, in that instance, the Court has always said that
we're going to allow those claims to be heard, at least
in the first instance, by -- by a Federal court for a
first petition.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your friend responds
to that point, I think, by saying that every State
allows collateral review in that instance and that what
we're talking about is simply preclusion of the second
bite at the apple -- or a third bite at the apple, I
guess, by -- by assumption, in the Federal system.
MR. READLER: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, I'm
not sure that's practical, to the extent that we've
already raised our underlying constitutional claims in
the State court. Those have been exhausted. So the
Michigan rule, as I read it, doesn't allow us to go back
to State court and present our constitutional claims
again. They've already been adjudicated.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about the
actual innocence claim?
MR. READLER: The innocence evidence may --
you may be able to pursue that under -- under the --
under the State rule, but that is more akin to a
freestanding --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that the most --
is that the most -- I thought I understood your friend
to say -- he can correct me if I'm wrong -- that every
State has an avenue for considering that.
MR. READLER: Well, two responses. One, I
think every State has different rules and so this -- the
application of the exception is never turned on sort of
what the alternative potential State rule is. That
wasn't -- that was true in House and true in Schlup,
where there were State alternatives.
But, two, those State alternatives go to
freestanding innocence claims, where you're not --
you're not alleging that there's an underlying
constitutional violation.
What you're saying is similar to Herrera,
and that is that I have evidence that shows, setting
aside any error of the trial, no errors, I have evidence
that shows I'm innocent. That's a completely different
concept. And what we're getting at here is the case
where you wanted evidence of innocence and, two, have a
constitutionally corrupt trial -- or at least an
allegation of a constitutionally corrupt trial.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I see --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, assuming for the sake
of argument that there is this exception, why shouldn't
diligence be required? How can it be equitable to allow
someone to bring a claim when the person has --
involving new evidence, when the person has not been
diligent in presenting this new evidence to the court?
MR. READLER: Well, Justice Alito, for
decades, this Court has never required diligence and, in
fact, in McCloskey, has expressly rejected it, and the
Court has noted that diligence has not historically been
required under the standard because, as the Court said
in House and Calderon, that Congress raised the bar in
two places on the statute.
But the reason why is because, as
Justice O'Connor said in her concurring opinion with --
with -- in Withrow, with Chief Justice Rehnquist, is
that innocence is the ultimate equity. And it trumps --
diligence is not the ultimate equity, it's innocence.
And if -- if a petitioner can come forward
and make a credible showing of actual innocence, that,
standing alone, has always been enough to allow a
Federal court to at least go ahead and then reach the
underlying claim.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You have a larger -- you
have a larger category, you say miscarriage of justice,
so one is actual innocence. You say the category is
well defined. So what else would fit under this -- and
we can bring it up very late in the -- in the day.
Anything else other than actual innocence would be in
this category?
MR. READLER: Justice Ginsburg, I think the
Court has always treated the phrase "miscarriage of
justice" as synonymous with actual innocence, and
that's -- that's the one thing it's getting at. It's a
narrow exception, it's difficult to meet, but -- but
it's always included cases where you can make -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are bribed jurors not a
miscarriage of justice?
MR. READLER: I'm sorry, Justice --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: A juror who's bribed, is
there no -- no miscarriage of justice there?
MR. READLER: Well, that would, presumably,
be the basis for a habeas claim.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we're -- we're talking
about the meaning of the term "miscarriage of justice."
It seems to me there -- there are many serious errors
that can be described by that general phrase.
MR. READLER: Well, Justice Kennedy, I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you want to say it's a
term of art? Fine.
MR. READLER: Justice Kennedy, I'm relying
on the Court's decades of decisions, many of which
you've written in this area, where they've described
miscarriage of justice in the habeas setting as the
equivalent of incarceration of an innocent person, and
that's what the exception is -- is getting at.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The --
JUSTICE BREYER: So does this boil down
to -- I mean, you have a one-year statute of
limitations. Now, I guess -- suppose Hurricane Katrina
came along and threw all the documents away for two
months. I guess the Court could extend it, couldn't it?
MR. READLER: Well, that could be viewed as
an impediment under -- under the -- under the statute,
there's a statutory provision for --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I mean, don't they
toll it when there's some -- when the courthouse burns
down?
MR. READLER: It could be also a basis for
equitable tolling, correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So you want to
say and that's also true when the person is actually
innocent, if you can prove that, delay it. Is that what
you're saying?
MR. READLER: I'm not sure if I fully
understand the question.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, he has his one year,
and he gives four criteria, and the four criteria,
sometimes, are not exclusive. And you want to say yours
is one of the times.
MR. READLER: That's -- that's true.
They're not exclusive. And a --
JUSTICE BREYER: And a different one you say
is when he's actually innocent.
MR. READLER: That's -- that's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If that's
correct, then suppose that he purposely has delayed
filing this until everybody's dead, so they know they
can't prove it anymore.
MR. READLER: Well, then that raises a
whole --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what is your answer?
MR. READLER: -- different range of --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right he, can he toll it
under those circumstances?
MR. READLER: Well, any -- as the Court said
in Schlup, the timing of the submission by the
Petitioner can certainly be considered in the Schlup
analysis, so --
JUSTICE BREYER: So the answer is, in your
view, if he deliberately and -- and, without cause,
delays it for 5 years, his filing, just so everybody
will die, you would say, okay, I'm not worried about
him?
MR. READLER: Well, Justice Breyer, I --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right? Would you,
or wouldn't you?
MR. READLER: I would say -- I would say
that he can still attempt to avail himself of the
settled miscarriage of justice exception, but the huge
problem he's going to run into --
JUSTICE BREYER: Does he win or lose?
MR. READLER: He likely -- he may well lose.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, what do you think?
MR. READLER: He may well lose at the Schlup
stage.
JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't ask that. I said
what do you think?
MR. READLER: Well, I don't have all the
facts. I suspect he's going to lose.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, you do. I made up the
hypothetical.
(Laughter.)
MR. READLER: Well, Justice Breyer, on those
facts, I'm going to say he loses at the Schlup stage
because Schlup, which is, one, an incredibly high bar to
meet, but, two, the Court expressly said, at page 322 of
the opinion, that it could consider the timing of the
evidence when it's submitted.
So it already takes into account any sort of
game-playing that petitioner may engage in when they're
trying to assert their -- their innocence.
JUSTICE BREYER: But they admit --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And how long did
your -
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm just trying to -- they
admit that, if he's diligent, it's okay?
MR. READLER: The -- the State?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. READLER: Well, the State --
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you believe he's
diligent?
MR. READLER: We believe he's diligent. The
State is asking for a diligence requirement that the
Court has never imposed.
JUSTICE BREYER: So the State is asking for
a diligence requirement. You admit that there's a
requirement that -- that you have to not really use this
as a sham device, so we're pretty close.
MR. READLER: Well, there's -- there's never
been a diligence requirement in this setting because
that's not been the focus.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there has --
JUSTICE BREYER: But there is a sham --
there is a sham and deliberate delay requirement, not a
diligence one, but there is a sham. I'm not trying to
trick you.
MR. READLER: No, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: What I'm trying to say is
maybe we're arguing about something that we could solve;
that is, in fact, many of these people don't have
lawyers. They don't understand the statute of
limitations, they don't understand what diligence might
consist of looking later. You agree that it's -- it
shouldn't be a sham, shouldn't do it deliberately.
All right. Now, if I'm thinking about that,
how would you advise me to write it?
MR. READLER: I think -- I think the Court
can just build on the principles it's already set
forward in Schlup and other places, and that is, that
there's never been a diligence requirement in this
setting.
And Congress, by the way, did not -- the
Congress -- the intent of Congress was not to include a
diligence requirement here because, in two places, it
did include a diligence requirement with respect to
successive petitions or evidentiary hearings, so
congressional intent was not to include diligence --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there has always
been a laches defense until Rule 9(a) was rescinded.
MR. READLER: That's correct, Justice
Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So there's
been some form -- not of due diligence, but some form of
check on a prisoner waiting so long that a State can't
respond, the -- Justice Breyer's hypothetical.
So he's asking you, I think, to tell us how
to write it. So do we write it by saying there's no
diligence requirement -- but there is a sort of common
law laches, although that's a hard argument to make
because it was based on 9(a) until recently.
Or do we just say it's equity, and equity
would suggest that, if it's contrived -- the delay is
contrived, that the evidence is suspect and doesn't --
and shouldn't be credited.
MR. READLER: Absolutely. Two responses.
First, just with respect to Rule 9(a), Chief Justice
Burger, in a concurring opinion to a dissent in
Spalding, said that even a laches rule would give way,
if there was a colorable showing of actual innocence.
With respect to the rule I'd write, I would
write the rule that is essentially already in place, and
that is that the miscarriage of justice exception does
not turn on diligence; it turns on whether you can show
innocence.
And in -- in attempting to show innocence
under Schlup, this timing -- the timing of the
submissions is a consideration. So if there's -- if
there's been a delay that, somehow, hurts the State
because a witness has died or that it appears to be that
that's the fault -- or that the petitioner was playing
games in that context, I think that's a fair
consideration under Schlup.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So is this
established after -- after some kind of evidentiary
hearing, the delay, whether he delayed for a particular
purpose or not?
MR. READLER: Well, it depends. If -- if
the petition is filed 3 weeks after the star witness
dies, presumably, the State will come back in their
petition and note, one, all the evidence that they think
goes against the -- the petitioner's claim, but, also,
they'll note that this happened, and the court could
resolve it at that stage, too.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why -- why did your
client wait 5 years after the last affidavit?
MR. READLER: A number of reasons,
Mr. Chief Justice. One, he was looking for counsel to
assist him; two, he continued to look for evidence;
three, he didn't have access to his legal papers. Many
of his legal papers were lost in a prison riot and then
a flood that occurred at this prison, so he didn't have
access to those and had to regain those.
For a period of time, he was denied access
to the library and to a legal writer. So there were a
culmination of reasons why he didn't do this, but I
think two of the critical ones were looking for counsel
and trying to develop more evidence.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, as your -- as your
adversary says, there's nothing really procedurally
complicated about filing a Federal habeas. There --
there are forms -- I've read hundreds of them -- that
have been filed by pro se petitioners, and there is
nothing technical about claiming, "I'm innocent of this
offense."
This isn't a legal issue. It's something
anybody can understand. I've got an -- I've got my
sister's affidavit, I have an affidavit by a third
person, I have an affidavit by -- by a person who worked
in the dry cleaning shop that shows that I'm actually
innocent.
Why doesn't -- what is the reason for
waiting 5 years to file that?
MR. READLER: Well, Justice Alito, no -- no
rational petitioner is going to want to wait in that
period because, if they file within the 1-year period,
they go straight to review on their habeas claims, and
they don't have to worry about any procedural gateway.
So -- so no rational -
JUSTICE ALITO: But I just -- I don't understand
your answer about why it took him 5 years from the --
from obtaining the last affidavit to the filing of the
Federal habeas. You said he couldn't get a lawyer. He
really didn't need a lawyer to do this. He didn't have
access to a library. This isn't a legal issue -- isn't
a complicated legal issue. It's a factual issue, that
anybody who watches detective shows on TV can
understand.
MR. READLER: Well -- and, Justice Alito,
you're right, we're not arguing for equitable tolling
here, in the sense that he could have filed earlier.
There wasn't -- there wasn't a State impediment that
stood in his way the entire period of time. And he
should have filed it earlier, and had he filed earlier,
then he would have gone straight to consideration of his
underlying habeas claims and wouldn't have to worry
about this high hurdle of satisfying --
JUSTICE ALITO: But you think that Congress,
which, in AEDPA, was trying to speed all this up and get
rid of the delay and make things simpler, intended to
allow that? You could wait 5 years, you could wait 10
years, you could wait 15 years; it doesn't matter?
That's what AEDPA was intended to do?
MR. READLER: Well, no, Justice Alito,
you're correct that AEDPA was intended to delay -- or to
end delay when possible -- but, as the Court said in
Holland, AEDPA was not meant to end every delay at all
costs. I think this is exactly the situation it had in
mind.
In Calderon, the Court recognized that the
miscarriage of justice exception is consistent with
AEDPA because -- because it arises so rarely that, in
the vast majority of cases, the finality and comity
concerns that the State has are honored because there's
no -- there's no additional proceeding, the petitioner
will not meet the high Schlup standard, and the case
will end.
But, in the rare case where a petitioner can
satisfy Schlup, the Court has always said that the
courthouse doors, in that circumstance, will be open to
review of your first Federal petition. And that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Second Circuit --
when it had a similar case, the Second Circuit itself
said that actual innocence is rare. This is such a
case. This is a case where the alibi that he had was --
it was established by forensic evidence, air-tight, he
was someplace else. The -- the Second Circuit didn't
send it to the district court to decide the actual
innocence.
It decided that itself and then said,
district court, now you deal with the -- with the
questions that the petitioner is raising -- the
constitutional questions. But the Sixth Circuit just
seemed to be -- it didn't matter whether -- it didn't
matter whether the actual innocence claim had any solid
basis, when they sent it back to the district court.
Shouldn't -- if there is an actual innocence
gateway, shouldn't the court of appeals determine that
before it returns the case to the district court?
MR. READLER: I think, ordinarily, yes. The
Sixth Circuit said, here, that there was a gateway, and
it was remanding the case back to the district court --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but it didn't find
anything about whether this was -- this claim was -- was
a good one.
MR. READLER: That's correct. That's
correct --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And I'm still puzzled
about what happens next. The case goes back to the
district court and the -- the district court is told,
diligence doesn't matter. The district court says, yes,
but I thought -- I thought that the claim was worthless.
MR. READLER: Well, it's correct that the
case should be remanded back to the district court, just
like this case -- just like the Court did in Schlup,
where it announced the standard and remanded back to the
district court for application.
But, here, I disagree with that reading of
the underlying opinion, in that the Court doesn't set
out in sort of weighing all the evidence and saying,
here's what I find in favor of the petitioner and here's
what I find in favor of the State. What the district
court said is that -- it said the timing of the evidence
was somehow a problem because the information was known
at trial, which I think is, again, wrong for two
reasons.
I think the petitioner has -- is able to use
the information because the problem for us was his
attorney was told about some of these things, but didn't
actually assert them -- or didn't interview one of the
key witnesses. One of the affiants was on the
prosecution's witness list, and my client's lawyer
didn't even interview that person, let alone call them.
And then the court -- I think the court --
the trial court misunderstood Schlup because Schlup
allows you to consider all the evidence, old and new,
make appropriate credibility determinations, consider
the timeliness of the evidence, and determine whether
that standard has been met.
And I think that's what should happen here
for the -- for the first time, in our view. And there
is a question -- there was a question, earlier, with
respect to how often the Schlup standard is met. In
response to the reply brief, we did a search of circuit
courts. And we found, since Schlup was decided, eight
circuits that have upheld or have found that Schlup was
satisfied.
If you add in House, then that adds nine
appellate cases where Schlup was satisfied. So it's --
it's a narrow range of cases. It shouldn't be difficult
to meet, but we --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but, I mean,
the whole question -- and your friend made the -- made
the point -- the question is how many are filed, in how
many cases does the claim arise, not how few times it's
upheld.
MR. READLER: Sure. Mr. Chief Justice, I
suspect, no matter the rules, there will always be
filings by petitioners, and many of those may be
frivolous. But, as the Court has said in Panetti and
other cases -- you know, unmeritorious petitions can be
dismissed at the earliest course, and it's consistent
with Habeas Rule 4.
That's what should happen in this instance,
too. But it's -- and it's awfully --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do you know
which of these are meritorious and which aren't? Is
this the meritorious -- I assume you think this is a
meritorious one?
(Laughter.)
MR. READLER: We -- we do,
Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And your friend says
nobody can reasonably think this person is innocent.
Maybe he has constitutional claims. But, if you look at
the evidence, is this something, at the -- a preliminary
stage, you look and say, oh, this guy's clearly
innocent, and this goes forward?
Or is it one that you can cast aside?
MR. READLER: I don't think it's one you can
cast aside. I think you -- you have to give this more
development. And, by the way, he was proceeding pro se.
I think, when he -- when the case is remanded, with
assistance of counsel, he can present -- better present
the evidence and better present some other things, to
make -- make the showing stronger. And I think we can
meet the Schlup standard.
If there are no further questions, we'd ask
that the Sixth Circuit be affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Bursch, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. BURSCH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BURSCH: Three brief points about
Holland and some closing thoughts about diligence.
With respect to Holland, I want to note,
first of all, that, there, you were dealing with
legislative silence. Everyone agreed that Congress had
not said anything about equitable tolling.
And, as I explained earlier, when you
consider the three categories of defendants who claim
actual innocence based on new evidence, this situation
here, where the new evidence relates to the factual
predicate of the constitutional claim asserted, that's
where Congress, most clearly, meant to have the
limitations period apply.
So it's very different. With respect to
equitable tolling applying to acts of Congress, everyone
recognizes that. Mr. Chief Justice, you note that this
has never been applied to limitations. I actually have
to take issue with my friend's statement that Sanders
and Kuhlmann, somehow, took a different tack because, in
both of those cases, what Congress did is it left it to
the district judge's discretion to do or not do
something.
And all this Court said was, well, if
they've got discretion, then they can still have an
equitable exception. So, even in those cases, this
miscarriage of justice exception has never, ever been
used to override a congressional act.
The last thing is that, in equitable
tolling, you are dealing with the fault of the
petitioner -- Hurricane Katrina or something else
happened that wasn't their fault. And, here, it's
entirely within the Petitioner's control.
All they have to do is print the form, check
the boxes, attach the evidence, and then file the claim.
And they have an unlimited time to find evidence and
then, 1 year after that, to file.
Now, with respect to diligence --
JUSTICE KAGAN: General, you had suggested,
earlier, some way out of this puzzle about why Congress
would have put the actual innocence exception into the
second successive petition provision and not had one for
a first petition?
MR. BURSCH: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So that seems really quite
odd to me. I mean, a number of my colleagues have said,
well, can we really believe that Congress contemplated
this. But, I mean, don't we have evidence that Congress
contemplated it in the second and successive context, a
slightly tighter version, wouldn't it be quite odd to
say that Congress contemplated an actual innocence
exception when you are on your second petition, but
barred it when you are on your first?
What sense would that be?
MR. BURSCH: Yeah, let me explain that and
I'm glad you raised that because -- you know, besides
the legislative history that informs what we are looking
at here, what they did in 2244(d)(1)(D) is they made it
broader. They said, even if you don't claim innocence,
if you are coming forward with new evidence, we want the
court to hear that constitutional claim, if you bring it
within one year.
The reason they didn't mention it there is
because it would have made the provision narrower, and
they didn't want to do that. Then they ratcheted it up
with respect to successive petitions, making you pass
through the successive petition actual innocence gateway
and then comply with the limitations period, so that's
the explanation, consistent were with legislative
history.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I guess I'm just not
sure I understand that. I mean, they could have added a
separate provision, just saying there's an actual
innocence exception, or there is -- there's not,
consistent with the way they did it in the -- in the
second and successive petition.
MR. BURSCH: Right, they could have, but,
again, that would have limited (d)(1)(D).
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, it didn't have to.
Why would it have necessarily have limited (d)(1)(D)?
MR. BURSCH: Well, if they said there is an
exception for those who claim actual innocence, the
implication is, for those who don't claim actual
innocence, you are out of luck.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you just you make the
converse clear.
MR. BURSCH: Well, if we could rewrite
congressional statutes with hindsight -- you know, maybe
we could draft a perfect statute.
JUSTICE KAGAN: All I'm suggesting is that your
interpretation of the statute creates a glaring anomaly
that people would be out of court on the first petition,
and they could turn around on their second petition,
which is usually disfavored, and get an actual innocence
exception.
MR. BURSCH: No, that -- that's not the way
that we interpret this at all. Under either provision,
you are stuck with (d)(1)(D), you have got to file
within a year. All that the successive petition adds to
it is that you do have a statutory actual innocence
gateway to pass through first that you don't have on your
first petition. That's our position.
I do want to close with some thoughts about
diligence. You know, looking for counsel, we've talked
about how simple it is to -- to file these things. The
papers lost in the -- the prison riot and the access to
the library are related, and it's because Defendant
Perkins incited the prison riot, so he is hardly in an
equitable position of -- of claiming any tolling benefit
from that.
And with respect to the -- the rule,
Justice Breyer, we can't have a diligence rule if you go
to that point, based on intent, because the interest
that is being vindicated here is not the purpose of the
Petitioner in --
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you think about the
words "discovered in exercise of due diligence"? You
know, you could manipulate those words so as to deal
with the circumstance of the -- say, below-average IQ
person who doesn't have a lawyer, who isn't certain
about what to do, and what counts as diligence and
discovery in that case.
Is that -- are you objecting to that? Do
you object to that? What do you think?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead, briefly.
MR. BURSCH: Sure. As long as it takes into
account that the State's interest in timeliness is at
its apex when we are dealing with new evidence that
relates to the actual constitutional claim. And they
are asking for -- not equitable tolling, but
extraordinary tolling that you should reject.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon at 11:01 a.m. the case in the
above matter was submitted.)
addresses 3:19 alleging 43:3 apple 42:1,1 attempt 26:13 47:24
12:1 15:1 adjudicated 42:9 44:9 54:22 applied 4:15 21:13 attorneys 8:11
admit 48:23 49:2,12 allowed 30:3 22:16,21 23:19 avail 47:24
51:11 adverse 5:1 57:22 35:2 36:8,14 60:21 a.m 1:13 3:2 65:13
64:9
21:12,22 43:1 31:25 60:17 back 10:25 12:16
23:5 altogether 28:15 applying 60:19 13:16,24 15:3
29:24 33:17 amends 6:10 appropriate 57:23 20:18 27:2 30:11
36:5 38:2 amici 14:15 25:12 appropriately 14:5 31:25 36:8 42:7
55:1,3,8 28:23 29:3 area 6:19 45:18 52:11 56:7,13,20
7:10,15 25:3,4 analytical 11:11 arguing 49:25 54:11 38:4,11
52:17 12:10 argument 1:12 2:2,5 balance 29:13
54:3 announce 31:24 2:8 3:3,6 10:15 bar 21:18,19 22:3,6
10:24
12:12 13:1,5
15:6 16:2,8
17:4,8,12
19:8,12
21:10 26:2,9
29:10 30:4
53:13 54:8 asking 36:11,24 60:13 64:16
32:5
38:23 42:11
55:20,24
60:13 61:19
63:1,10,11
31:2 32:2,11 10:1 31:18,18 assist 52:20 behalf 1:16,17 2:4,7
64:3 65:7
33:1,3 36:24 32:23 assistance 25:7 2:10 3:7 29:17
38:1,3 appealed 32:8 59:20 60:4
41:2,10 appeals 14:22 56:9 assume 11:5 59:4 believe 10:9,14 49:6
53:5,20 APPEARANCES assuming 5:25 10:6 49:8 61:25
20:13 21:2,5,9,23 certificate 9:4,25 24:12 25:1,6 27:20 coming 62:13
33:11 26:14,18 27:25 CHAD 1:17 2:6 40:15,19 41:6 commit 26:24
47:1,7 call 10:17 12:2 17:8 19:14,20 29:14,18 64:12 54:7
48:2 23:14 57:19 33:8,12,20,24 claims 13:11 16:2,9 comply 17:12 19:13
care 3:12 34:14,18,22 35:6 24:8 26:2 27:13,15 19:25 62:21
case 3:4 9:12 10:23 35:12,17,21,23 29:5 30:6 37:20 concept 43:9
12:23,25 14:3,16 36:6,13 38:6 39:1 41:19 42:5,8 43:2 concern 36:16
17:17 29:3 32:19 33:11 35:13 58:18 59:2,8,9 53:16 55:10
58:5 60:5 39:6 40:24 43:9 60:1,20 65:3,11 clear 28:20 29:25 concession 4:8
25:12 28:23 57:1 59:19 64:25 circuit 7:1 8:17 9:4 clemency 12:17 concurring 44:3
44:17 62:14 cases 14:18 15:2 16:18 26:14 27:1 clerk 7:11 25:3 confessed 10:10
4:1,7,21,24 cause 21:7,9 26:11 38:21 47:10 collateral 41:24 29:25 33:11,18,21
6:1,18 7:24 47:16 circumvent 19:9 colleagues 61:24 33:22 34:3,3 35:18
10:2,9,14 causes 6:16 cite 14:15 colorable 51:15 35:19 36:1 37:17
cell 24:16 civil 20:19 Columbus 1:17 38:2,12,14 39:20
13:22 14:2 certain 5:20 23:11 claim 4:9,23 6:24 come 5:9 24:15 40:1,23 43:25
54:19 contours 33:5 43:21,23,24 44:10 dead 47:3 deteriorates 25:17
contrary 29:25 44:21 46:2 47:11 deal 26:7 56:2 64:21 determination 9:16
62:1,4 contrived 51:8,9 48:17 49:10 50:8 dealing 3:10,13 24:21
63:16 converse 63:14 56:2,7,9,10,13,21 61:8 65:6 57:23
34:5 35:4 corner 6:4 58:21 61:2 62:14 decades 43:21 develop 21:11 39:13
57:22,23 correct 13:22 21:23 63:20 45:17 53:4
30:16 31:16 32:1 courthouse 46:7 decide 30:12 37:22 development 59:18
54:16 46:25 47:2 50:21 courts 12:16 14:8 decided 30:12 32:7 die 47:18
22:8 corrupt 43:11,12 Court's 13:16 22:5 deciding 35:4 dies 39:7 52:11
47:13 counsel 25:7 29:14 court-created 21:14 14:16 18:25 23:24 36:7
45:1 52:19 53:3 cover 14:6 45:17 15:13 18:6 21:17
55:7 58:23 countervailing 5:3 create 20:22 37:19 defendants 60:12 60:18,23
63:3 7:18 created 22:2,3 defense 50:20 differently 22:8
14:3 15:7 24:18 35:25 definitely 39:2 58:11
27:8 29:11 country 8:11 creates 63:19 delay 4:4 24:19 difficulty 8:3,16
41:5 42:5,8 counts 64:24 creating 21:20 46:13 49:20 51:8 diligence 3:23 4:11
56:4 59:11 county 14:19 credibility 57:23 51:24 52:7 54:21 4:19 5:2,25 7:21
62:14 65:7 couple 14:18 credible 38:22 44:8 55:1,2,3 9:5,5 10:6,15,19
58:23 credited 51:10 delays 47:17 30:25 31:20 33:7
13:17 6:15,17,22 8:3,10 criteria 46:18,18 deliberately 47:16 49:9,12,16,21 50:3
22:1,9 23:1 26:19 cross-examine 7:13 18:20 28:23 61:16 64:7,15,20
30:6,9,12,15,22 culmination 53:2 demonstrating diligent 9:3 43:19
38:8 52:2 31:22,23 32:1,3,4 cut 26:19 28:8 denied 30:19 52:25 diligently 6:7
32:12,17,18 33:9 depends 52:9 disagree 10:19 57:4
60:11 61:18 18:11 19:12 24:25 63:23 fault 3:23 52:1 61:8
64:25 easier 28:9 52:6 55:22 exclude 20:23 favor 57:7,8
effect 21:7,9 everybody 39:7 exculpatory 40:10 Federal 3:17 6:23
9:13 ends 34:5 35:4 24:22,25 25:17,22 exonerates 40:18 Feingold 13:9,13
10:7,22 ends-of-justice 34:4 26:23 27:6 31:4,5 expansion 3:22 felt 31:5
34:11 35:3 31:10,14 32:5,15 explain 62:8 file 3:17 6:5 7:2,8,16
32:1,3,4 enforced 21:19 32:15,18 37:13,23 explained 17:22 38:19 39:3,11
55:24 56:2,7 engage 48:21 39:13,19,23,25 18:1 60:11 53:19,22 61:13,15
entire 54:14 40:2,7,10,17 41:14 explains 29:4 64:1,8
57:3,8 60:25 entirely 40:22 61:11 42:12 43:6,7,10,18 explanation 62:22 filed 18:14 52:10
25:19 23:6,13 27:11 65:6 extraordinary 65:9 54:3
erroneous 32:16 21:13,18,21 22:2,5 60:14 9:2 12:13 17:4
36:18 54:12 34:7 51:17 51:18 55:7 61:4,5 fall 14:12 64:4,5
58:3 establish 12:14 61:19 62:5 63:2,10 far 36:8 fit 44:16
43:9 44:23 45:21 6:6 8:1,2,6 12:15 29:22 36:7 55:3 information 57:10
27:14 44:7 39:21,25 44:13,20 53:23 54:4,17 58:9 21:10
59:14 62:13 52:4 55:18 56:14 58:24 huge 47:25 innocence 4:5,10,18
glad 62:9 happens 5:22 41:5 hypothetical 40:13 18:3,12,23 19:8,12
41:22 42:17 go 5:12 8:12 12:16 happy 12:24 27:7,10,15 29:10
59:9 15:3 18:8 27:14 hard 51:5 I 30:4,10,10,14 32:5
65:3 haystack 27:15,17 Illinois 14:22 43:2,10 44:5,6,8
48:1,10,15 53:21 held 10:8 29:23 38:9 37:21 40:11 41:3,7
15:8 17:8 great 8:3 hidden 27:24 50:14,16,18 58:25
19:9 25:5 GREG 1:3 high 10:24 26:6 30:3 included 34:4 35:3 instances 11:7
41:11 53:24 ground 11:23 38:25 48:16 54:18 40:1 44:25 intend 18:5
54:21,24 judge's 60:25 laches 50:20 51:5 50:3 60:17,21 manifest-injustice
judgment 11:13 35:2 51:14 62:21 33:10 36:2
juror 45:5 31:3 34:9,12,25 63:6,8 matter 1:11 29:5
24:2 27:13 jury 27:4,6,9 lapse 25:9 34:23 35:7,7,8,10 58:19 65:14
64:16 65:5 Justices 27:16 larger 44:13,14 35:10,11,12,13,16 McCloskey 43:22
63:19 KAGAN 21:20,24 litigate 6:9 33:21,22 35:7,18
64:23
18:15 Kagan's 29:20 28:9 meaning 28:1 30:2
53:1,12
15:5 18:16 19:1,4 28:13 29:6 52:20 40:23 55:3 60:16
60:9 62:10
10:1 40:24 52:6 64:7 mention 62:16
31:21 32:7,7 kinds 20:19 loops 13:24 mentioned 13:13
33:6 36:14 knew 7:14 15:24 loose 26:19 merit 30:9
54:6,7,7 16:21 lose 8:19 9:1 48:2,3 meritorious 27:19
know 5:18 7:1,3,14 48:5,10 27:23 59:3,4,5
36:18 20:23 23:9 24:9,24 lot 25:24 28:11 32:13
27:3,6 36:8 luck 40:22 41:13 Michigan 1:15,16
13:18
17:10
19:9,13 20:1
21:15 22:22
23:15,20,25
33:16,17
60:3 Kuhlmann 34:13 making 15:22,24 mind 13:17 55:5
34:1 36:4,9
37:1,18
39:22
19:17 21:6 61:5 45:24 38:20 40:4,16,21 place 8:4 11:23
30:1 34:2 new 3:11 5:8 10:25 open 55:16 52:25 53:22,22 38:18 51:17
36:21 12:12,13,20 13:1 opinion 9:12 10:16 54:14 60:17 62:21 places 22:10 44:1
41:16 44:14 13:11,12 24:15,16 11:13,15 23:11 Perkins 1:6 3:4,21 50:10,15
45:3,6,10,19 25:12 26:23 31:5 44:3 48:18 51:13 4:2 7:7 8:25 26:22 plain 3:25
51:18 55:7 31:10 32:15,19 57:5 64:11 plausible 37:16 38:1
37:17 39:18,22 opportunity 5:4,10 person 4:20 7:12 playing 52:1
57:22 60:13,14 41:11 43:17,18 45:20 please 3:9 29:19
normal 22:14 23:6 order 27:1 petition 3:17 6:6,10 27:11,20 30:8
40:16 60:20 56:11 17:14 18:13,17,18 39:14 41:23 58:15
24:2 override 4:20 61:6 34:7 35:1,5 36:17 points 60:5
object 39:8 65:2 pages 33:13 40:25 44:7 47:13 potentially 28:18
58:11 occasional 28:11 part 31:17 petitioners 6:20 8:1 preclusion 41:25
offense 53:11 parties 18:2 61:11 prejudiced 24:19,20
59:13 passes 25:16 19:6 28:4 34:17 preliminary 59:12
okay 47:18 49:2 63:20 58:22 62:19 16:11 30:5 42:8
30:14 33:15 31:10 32:18 57:22 perfect 26:19 63:17 6:14 presented 16:22
36:4 once 5:8 21:14 period 5:21 10:19 phrase 44:21 45:12 presenting 43:19
43:21 49:10 ones 53:3 11:10 13:18 17:13 pile 7:4 27:18 preserve 7:16
prove 15:6 16:15,17 43:25 62:9 REBUTTAL 2:8 43:16,21,24
21:1 22:20 46:13 47:4 raising 56:3 recall 33:4 30:25 31:20 33:7
27:7,10 38:4 proved 12:4 range 47:8 58:11 recognize 14:11 34:11 49:9,12,13
proves 4:17 26:23 rare 38:21 55:14,20 recognized 16:18 49:16,20 50:11,15
50:9 63:1,25 33:22 34:10 35:19 30:18 respect 16:6 20:6,16
purpose 52:8 64:17 Readler 1:17 2:6 reform 30:18 34:19,23 36:13
12:20 50:25 pursue 42:13 32:11,24 33:3,12 regarding 29:21 51:16 58:4 60:7,18
15:5 37:2 put 17:13 19:10,16 35:9,15,21 36:3,12 Rehnquist 44:4 respectfully 15:8
28:4 61:19 37:4,8,25 38:3 reject 65:9 respond 8:15 51:1
59:18 puzzle 61:18 42:12,20 43:20 related 12:21 64:10 2:7 29:17 37:14
15:2 24:9 46:3,9,15,21,25 relatively 8:8 responds 41:22
27:17 32:9 Q 47:5,8,11,20,23 relief 14:13 response 58:5
57:10,14 question 3:16,19 48:3,5,9,14 49:3,5 rely 18:2 responses 36:13
26:7 30:4,5 12:23 15:4 19:18 53:20 54:10,25 remaining 60:2 rest 13:15
29:21 30:14,18 56:11,17,24 58:18 remanded 9:13 returns 56:10
31:19 35:14 38:6 59:7,16 31:25 56:25 57:2 reversal 11:7
59:18 56:3,4 59:24 28:20 32:19 49:13 14:7 55:17
reasonably 31:6,6 reply 58:5 21:12 26:4 32:11
29:14 21:12 24:4 26:10 sharp 20:15 sort 4:18 11:12 49:9,11 50:25
34:14,18 31:9,9,24 32:17 shelf 6:15 31:14 42:22 48:20 51:24 52:11 54:13
35:6,12,17 38:16,25 41:1,17 shop 53:16 51:4 57:6 55:10 57:8
36:6 39:1 42:24 47:12,13 short 22:19 25:20 Sotomayor 4:12,22 stated 22:14
42:10,16 48:5,15,16 50:10 show 7:21 51:19,21 4:24 11:2,5,12,16 statement 60:22
52:5,16 51:22 52:3 55:12 showing 30:4 38:22 11:20 12:3 16:5 States 1:1,12 24:5
59:2,9 60:1 55:15 57:1,21,21 44:8 51:15 59:22 18:24 20:4,13,25 State's 7:8 18:14
58:4,6,7,10 59:23 shown 41:16 21:3,7 26:1,12,17 27:13 65:5
22:14 28:8 scratch 23:22 43:6,8 53:16 54:8 28:24 29:2 43:13 statute 4:14 7:18
33:15 36:22 se 8:11,12 32:25 side 14:15 19:15 44:12 45:1,22 11:25 13:11 16:13
42:7,14,23 53:9 59:18 silence 60:9 49:18 50:19,22,23 16:17,24 17:9 20:7
51:12,14,16 search 58:5 similar 43:5 55:19 Spalding 51:14 20:14 21:15 22:22
58:24 64:14 second 5:19 8:21 9:3 simple 6:2 8:8 64:8 speak 39:18 22:23 23:14,19,25
12:19 15:5,11 35:5 simpler 54:21 speaks 39:15 30:19,23 33:16,16
42:21 58:19 55:19,23 61:20 18:10 25:18 41:25 specifically 20:23 36:4,19 37:1,17
Senators 13:9 Sixth 6:25 8:17 9:3 stale 24:8,8 17:8 18:12 19:24
sends 27:2 30:11 26:14 27:1 30:11 19:25 31:8,13,24 64:3
55:15 54:12 62:7 slightly 62:3 57:25 58:4 59:23 stop 27:21 28:7
13:24 15:20 separate 63:1 smaller 14:10 stand-alone 14:4 strong 18:4
19:1 32:4 separation 21:16 solely 30:20 40:7 star 52:10 stronger 59:22
43:5 46:14 22:7 Solicitor 1:15 start 29:20 40:21 structural 40:15
57:6 63:1 serious 45:11 solid 56:6 starts 21:11 40:4 stuck 64:1
38:14 53:6 22:11 29:22,22 solve 49:25 7:3,17 8:7,15 stuff 23:12 24:15,16
59:9 31:14 50:9 57:5 solved 3:15 10:10 12:16 14:8 subject 20:8,20
49:16 50:12 somebody 39:6 41:3 21:21 22:2,4 24:2 submissions 51:23
65:12,14 talk 12:24 24:17 thoughts 6:18 60:6 tried 7:22 unlimited 61:14
64:7 three 11:7 12:11 true 12:22 29:10 unrelated 41:6
20:25 21:3,17 22:8 60:5,12 46:12,21 upheld 58:7,17
35:8,9 tell 51:2 37:24 trumps 4:16 44:5 uses 12:20
17:3 23:21 time 5:21 6:25 21:22 38:2 48:22 49:1,21 V
18:13,17,18 term 45:10,15 21:22 25:9,16,25 49:24 53:4 54:20 v 1:5 3:4 22:13
19:5,11 text 17:1,1,18 29:13 31:7 34:19 turn 11:10 12:9 valid 30:10
34:6 35:1,5 textual 16:10 34:23 35:7,13,16 51:19 63:21 validity 4:23
61:20 62:2 Thank 3:8 29:14,18 35:19,22,25 39:4 turned 42:22 vast 15:1 55:9
63:4 64:2 60:1 65:10,11 39:12 52:25 54:14 turns 32:19 51:19 verdicts 12:17
61:17 37:18 39:10 54:21 timely 18:13 31:8 36:13 38:4 viewed 46:3
39:2 42:4 36:11,12 37:2,16 told 56:21 57:15 ultimate 38:9 44:5,6 waiting 6:15 50:25
58:18 62:25 38:8 39:16,19 40:5 toll 46:7 47:9
41:9,23 42:21 tolling 3:12 6:21
26:2 40:14 13:18,19 15:3
43:3 44:11 16:10 19:5 20:15
51:9 58:19 50:8 51:2 52:2,12 32:20 36:8,10 38:7
57:5 25:23 28:15,17,20
20:5 28:2 45:14 46:11,19
42:2 59:19,22 64:19 totally 41:6
46:16 50:2,3 53:21 60:7 62:13
touch 27:12
42:1 53:14 43:7,11,12 57:11
35:5 60:22 thought 4:1 22:12 57:21 Unfortunately 17:18 WARDEN 1:3
32:4,8 34:12 write 8:10 19:2 50:7 1986 21:11 96 13:8
54:13,13 51:3,3,16,17 1995 21:12
writer 53:1
20:15 wrong 31:8,12 32:4 20 24:16
50:13 51:14 32:6,14 33:23 2013 1:9
59:18 61:18 42:18 57:11 2244 15:16 16:12
wrote 7:14 17:1 34:4
38:19 2255 34:9,10,14
40:9,12 25 1:9
24:14,20
61:15 62:15 29 2:7
41:19,25
45:9,9 49:14
54:11
24:17 25:19 3 2:4 52:10
47:17 52:17 30 24:17
42:4 64:7
54:2,22,23 322 48:17
36 33:13
1 5
57:17 64:1 54:2,22
38:16 8
1:13 3:2
5:7 10:2
