IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MARYLAND, :
Petitioner : No. 12-207
v. :
ALONZO JAY KING, JR. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, February 26, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:10 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
KATHERINE WINFREE, ESQ., Chief Deputy Attorney General,
Baltimore, Maryland; on behalf of Petitioner.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United
States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner.
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
KATHERINE WINFREE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Petitioner 14
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
KATHERINE WINFREE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 59
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:10 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next this morning in Case 12-207,
Maryland v. King.
Ms. Winfree?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KATHERINE WINFREE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. WINFREE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Since 2009, when Maryland began to collect
DNA samples from arrestees charged with violent crimes
and burglary, there have been 225 matches, 75
prosecutions, and 42 convictions, including that of
Respondent King.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's really good.
I'll bet you, if you conducted a lot of unreasonable
searches and seizures, you'd get more convictions, too.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: That proves absolutely
nothing.
MS. WINFREE: Well, I think, Justice Scalia,
it does, in fact, point out the fact that -- that the
statute is working, and, in the State's view, the Act is
constitutional.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So that's its purpose, to
enable you to identify future criminals -- the
perpetrators of future crimes? That's the purpose of
it? I thought that that wasn't the purpose set forth in
the -- in the statute.
MS. WINFREE: No, not -- not just to
identify people -- the purpose of the statute is to
enable the State to identify perpetrators of serious
crimes and -- and to use the information to make bail
determinations for people who are validly in their
custody.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And I'm having a hard
time understanding the bail argument because, in my
time, most bail decisions were made at the time of
arrest. And, here, the arrest was in April, and the
results didn't come up until August.
MS. WINFREE: That's true,
Justice Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And, yet, he was
detained anyway, correct?
MS. WINFREE: He was detained anyway.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And -- and there might
be a case where someone's gotten out, but it would be
the rare case.
MS. WINFREE: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's -- you don't use it
routinely for the bail determination.
MS. WINFREE: At this point, you're
absolutely correct, Justice Sotomayor. We don't use it
routinely for a couple of reasons. For one, as in
Mr. King's case, there has been, in the past, a more
substantial delay in getting those results back.
Our -- our lab now is getting results
between 11 and 17 days. Now, that, of course --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that doesn't
include the time to collect the sample, send it to you,
or the time to do the match. It's just to do the genome
rapid, correct?
MS. WINFREE: No, that's the whole -- that's
the whole process, Justice Sotomayor. It's for getting
the sample and getting it into the system, the DNA
profile, and getting the match back. That's what we're
being told. It's from 11 to 17 days.
Now, of course, that wouldn't be timely for
that first bail determination, but the State, under
Maryland's procedure, certainly has the ability to go
back to -- to the judge and ask that sentence -- or
that -- I'm sorry -- that bail determination to be
modified. And, in point of fact, though, we don't have
any particular statistics in Maryland.
In California's amicus brief, which was
joined by the 49 other States and D.C. and Puerto Rico,
they actually do cite two particular examples where --
where two people, Castillo and Shamblin, were arrested.
One was arrested on a credit card charge and
another on a drug charge. Mr. Castillo was actually
released on his -- on OR, and, when his sample was
matched, it came back to a -- an unsolved rape and
sodomy, and his OR was revoked.
In Mr. Shamblin's case, he was granted
diversion because his drug charge is a relatively
low-level offense and, when the match came back, it --
it tied him to a rape and murder. His diversion was
revoked, and he's currently pending charge -- pending
trial on both of those charges.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your -- your
procedure limits the collection to certain violent
offenses, right?
MS. WINFREE: It does, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But your argument
would not be so limited, would it? Under your theory,
there's no reason you couldn't undertake this procedure
with respect to anybody pulled over for a traffic
violation?
MS. WINFREE: Well, in Maryland, it's not
just the fact that we have those -- those violent crimes
and burglaries. Actually, we don't collect DNA unless
someone is physically taken into custody.
Now, with respect to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I understand.
But there's no reason you couldn't, right? I gather
it's not that hard. Police officers who give
Breathalyzer tests, they can also take a Q-tip or
whatever and get a DNA sample, right?
MS. WINFREE: Well, what I would say to that
is that, with respect to a traffic stop, this Court
said, in Berkemer, that a motorist has an expectation
that a traffic stop is going to be relatively brief and
temporary, that he or she will be given a citation and
sent on their way.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how long does
it take to -- to undergo the procedure? You know, you
say, ah, and then -- you know.
MS. WINFREE: It doesn't take long, but what
I was suggesting is that, because of the nature of a
traffic stop, this Court might well decide that a
motorist has a reasonable expectation of privacy not
to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about a Terry stop?
A Terry stop?
MS. WINFREE: In a Terry -- well, this
Court, I guess we would look at two -- one case in
particular, this Court's case -- decision in Hayes
v. Florida. That involved a defendant who was taken
into custody, so his -- he was not arrested, but taken
into custody for -- to get his fingerprints, and this
Court held that that was not -- that was not
constitutional.
But the Court further said that there could
be a circumstance in a Terry stop, if the officer had
reasonable suspicion to believe that -- that the
individual was --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But these -- these are
all cases -- I mean, the dominant use is to solve what
they call cold -- cold cases, and you gave one example.
This case is another. A rape committed 6 years before,
right?
And there was no reasonable suspicion, there
was no -- nothing, right? And the suspicion comes up
only because the DNA sample comes back as a match. So
is it the -- this is a very reliable tool, but it's not
based on any kind of suspicion of the individual who's
being subjected to it, right?
MS. WINFREE: That's correct, Your Honor.
And, if I could go back to your question
about the Terry stop, the cornerstone of our -- and I do
believe that this Court could -- could -- who knows how
this Court would come out in that situation, but I
think, in terms of our argument, the corner --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I know.
(Laughter.)
MS. WINFREE: Well, happily, we don't have
to decide that one today. But what -- what I -- the
cornerstone of our argument is that when an individual
is taken into custody, an individual is arrested on a
probable cause -- a probable cause arrest, that person,
by virtue of being in that class of individuals whose
conduct has led the police to arrest him on -- based on
probable cause, surrenders a substantial amount of
liberty and privacy.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Ms. Winfree, that can't
be quite right, can it? I mean, such a person -- assume
you've been arrested for something, the State doesn't
have the right to go search your house for evidence of
unrelated crimes; isn't -- isn't that correct?
MS. WINFREE: That's correct, Justice Kagan.
JUSTICE KAGAN: It doesn't have the right to
go search your car for evidence of unrelated crimes.
MS. WINFREE: That's correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Just because you've been
arrested doesn't mean that you lose the privacy
expectations and things you have that aren't related to
the offense that you've been arrested for.
MS. WINFREE: That's correct, but what we're
seizing here is not evidence of crime. What it is, is
information related to that person's DNA profile. Those
26 numbers --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well -- and if there were a
real identification purpose for this, then I understand
that argument. But, if it's just to solve cold cases,
which is the way you started, then it's just like
searching your house, to see what's in your house that
could help to solve a cold case.
MS. WINFREE: Well, I would say there's a
very real distinction between the police generally
rummaging in your home to look for evidence that might
relate to your personal papers and your thoughts. It's
a very real difference there than swabbing the inside of
an arrestee's cheek to determine what that person's
CODIS DNA profile is.
It's looking only at 26 numbers that tell us
nothing more about that individual.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but, if that's what
you're basing it on, then you're not basing it on an
arrestee. I mean, then the Chief Justice is right, it
could be any arrestee, no matter how minor the offense.
It could be just any old person in the street.
Why don't we do this for everybody who comes
in for a driver's license because it's very effective?
MS. WINFREE: I think the difference there
is these people are lawfully in custody, having been
arrested based on probable cause, and that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So, now, I
see two lines of cases, okay? The Fourth Amendment,
which says you can't do a search without a warrant and
probable cause, and Samson, and most of your brief
argument was based on Samson.
As I read Samson, it was the special
relationship between the parolee or the probationary
person, that line of cases, and the assumption being
that they're out in the world, I think, by the largesse
of the State. So the State has a right to search their
home, just as it would their cell, essentially.
Why is that true for an arrestee? What
about -- what creates this special relationship that
permits you to intrude, search their home, search their
car, search their person, to solve other cases?
MS. WINFREE: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because you're going to
have to tell me why searching their person is different
than searching their home or car.
MS. WINFREE: Well, if I could start at the
back end of your question, Justice Sotomayor, we're not
suggesting -- and this statute doesn't permit the State
or police to search an arrestee's home or his person
beyond -- beyond simply swabbing the cheek for the DNA.
Now, in terms of the -- the individual's
relationship to the State, an arrestee is not that
dissimilar. There is, obviously, a range of -- of
relationships with the State. Those of us who are out
on the street, ordinary citizens are at one end, people
who are imprisoned upon conviction are at the other end.
And -- but, in terms of when an arrestee is
physically in custody, he has a reduced expectation of
privacy, and that's what makes, in our view, it makes
this case more similar. To be sure, this is not Samson.
It's -- there's no -- there's no one case in this
Court's jurisprudence that's exactly like this.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There's no other case,
but Samson, in that line that permits searches on this
balancing.
MS. WINFREE: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what I want to know
is what's the legal theory now? How far do we let the
State go each time it has some form of custody over you,
in schools, in workplaces, wherever else the State has
control over your person?
MS. WINFREE: Well, those are different
situations, Justice Sotomayor. We're not suggesting
that -- that the police could swab a student for -- for
a DNA sample. We're talking about a special class of
people who, by their conduct, have -- have been arrested
based on probable cause.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can I ask you a particular
specific quick question?
MS. WINFREE: Yes, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: As I read this, this
concerns people arrested for a felony, a crime of
violence, attempted crime of violence, burglary, or
attempted burglary.
MS. WINFREE: Yes, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: And so we're not talking
about people who are driving cars and traffic stops and
all these other things?
MS. WINFREE: That's absolutely correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: The only thing we have to
decide is whether a person, where there's probable cause
to arrest a person for those four crimes, their
fingerprints are all taken.
MS. WINFREE: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And whether they also can
take DNA. That's the issue?
MS. WINFREE: That's correct,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Nothing else. Thank
you.
MS. WINFREE: If there are no further
questions, I'll reserve the remainder of my time
for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Dreeben?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL DREEBEN,
FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Arrestees are in a unique category. They
are on the gateway into the criminal justice system.
They are no longer like free citizens who are wandering
around on the streets retaining full impact Fourth
Amendment rights.
The arrest itself substantially reduces the
individual's expectation of privacy. The arrestee can
be searched and sent to arrest. His property, whether
or not connected with a crime, can be inventoried.
When he's taken into the jail situation, he
can be subjected to a visual strip search. If he's
admitted to the population of the jail, he'll be given a
TB test and a thorough medical screen. These are not
individuals who are like free citizens, and they are not
like free citizens in another significant respect.
Arrestees are rarely arrested for the first
time. They tend to be repeat customers in the criminal
justice system. Up to 70 percent of arrestees have been
previously arrested.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but that
doesn't mean, for example, that you can go into their
house without a warrant.
MR. DREEBEN: That is certainly correct,
Chief Justice Roberts, and the reason for that is going
into the house will expose a substantial number of
highly private things to the view of the State. Taking
a DNA sample is not of that character. It is far more
like taking a fingerprint.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that -- this
is a factual question. I understand your emphasis on
the fact that it only looks at 26 loci, and they are
supposedly not connected in any way with other
information.
Does the sample that you retain, can it be
evaluated more broadly? In other words, saying, well,
the law says we only look at these 13, but we have this
saliva, we want to look at all sorts of other stuff.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, by law, the -- the
government, under CODIS, and the States cannot look at
anything except identification information. The sample
contains the entire genome. The sample cannot be looked
at as a matter of law.
And I think it's critical to this case to --
for the Court to understand that, if the Court
concludes, as is probably correct, that the individual
will retain a reasonable expectation of privacy in the
genomic material that does not reveal identity, then
additional Fourth Amendment scrutiny would be required
before the government could make use of the rest of the
genome.
Here, it's making use of an identity
indicator that is highly similar to fingerprints with
one significant difference: It is far more accurate.
When Respondent committed his rape --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Dreeben, is it
really? Because, if this were like fingerprints, I
think that you would have a quite good case. But, as
I've been reading about this, it -- it seems as though
the technology is not the same as the fingerprint
technology; and, because the technology is different, it
is used differently.
Fingerprints, you go in, you put in a
fingerprint, there is identifying information that comes
back to you in 5 minutes, right?
This, you put in something, and Ms. Winfree
said was 11 to 17 days, in this case, it's four months,
and it doesn't seem to be used because the technology
doesn't allow it to be used as the kind of routine
identifier that fingerprints does.
So am I wrong about that?
MR. DREEBEN: You are not wrong, Justice
Kagan, but the future is very close to where there will
be rapid DNA analyzers that are devices that can analyze
and produce the identification material in -- in the DNA
within 90 minutes. And the design of this program is to
put them at the booking station, so that DNA can be
taken, and, within 90 minutes, that information is
known.
In that circumstance, it will be highly
relevant to the immediate release/custody decision,
which it already can play a role in --
JUSTICE BREYER: That -- that part is
surprising. Then do you think the States are wrong? I
mean, they all say in their brief, in footnote 10, DNA
identification database samples have been processed in
as few as 2 days in California and -- although around
30 days has been average.
So I guess the technology is there, now, to
process this in 2 days, not 9 days.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, Justice Breyer -- Yes,
Justice Breyer. There is no question it can be done
quickly because of the volumes. I'm not contending
that, today, it is --
JUSTICE BREYER: In the case of -- do you
have any information -- are there instances with
fingerprints where returns have not come back for as
long as 30 days? Or are they all, or almost all, done
in 5 minutes?
MR. DREEBEN: Fingerprint histories tend to
come back quickly, except if the prints are
unrecognizable or unreadable. It is very significant, I
think, that fingerprints are used for crime solution, as
well as --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, before you get on
to -- before you go to that, fingerprints have been
taken, I believe, from people who are booked for
offenses for many, many, many years; isn't that right?
MR. DREEBEN: Correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: When did -- when did the
FBI's AFIS system for comparing fingerprints by computer
begin?
MR. DREEBEN: That, I cannot tell you,
Justice Alito. It is now in use. It is in use both for
identification, and, contrary to the representation of
Respondent in his brief, fingerprints are run against
the latent fingerprint database, which reflects
fingerprints from crime scenes.
It returns about 50,000 hits a year.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the question that I
had was this: If the constitutionality of taking
fingerprints is dependent on the speed with which a
fingerprint comparison can be done now by a computerized
system, would that mean that the taking of fingerprints
was unconstitutional back in, let's say, the '50s, when
that wasn't possible, and fingerprints could only be
compared manually?
MR. DREEBEN: No, I certainly do not think
that it would have been unconstitutional at any point
because the State has a compelling interest in taking
biometric identification information from the individual
that is arrested and using it for a myriad of purposes,
determining criminal history, attempting to solve
crimes, funneling that information back --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dreeben, could I
understand how this works, exactly? The swab is taken,
and if I -- there is a database which is known
offenders, and there is a database which is kind of
crime scene DNA, is that correct?
MR. DREEBEN: That is correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And, when the swab is taken
and it's put into the system, you check that against the
crime scene DNA database, is that correct?
MR. DREEBEN: That is the routine method
under CODIS, yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you check it -- does
Maryland check it against the known offenders database?
MR. DREEBEN: I do not know precisely
whether Maryland does that. The Federal system does not
routinely do that. Upgrades to the software system will
permit it to do that, and many States do it.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Because that suggests that,
right now, it's functioning as let's solve some crimes,
which is a good thing -- you know, that we should solve
some crimes, but not as an identification device because
you're -- if it were an identification device, you would
be comparing it to the known offender database, not to
the cold case database.
MR. DREEBEN: I agree with that, and I think
that, in California, the brief for the States indicates
that many States do that, and California itself uses it
to resolve discrepancies in identity when a fingerprint
comes back and it returns to multiple names, or the
fingerprint is not good enough to permit an
identification. California cross-checks, so it does
perform an identification function.
And, as I suggested, with the advent of
rapid DNA, it's not that it is unconstitutional before
rapid DNA, but rapid DNA will permit DNA identification
to replace fingerprint identification because it's far
more accurate, and it has far more utility in the
secondary purpose of fingerprints, which is to match
them to latent prints and solve crimes.
And this is highly relevant to both of the
major purposes for taking DNA, crime solution and
facilitating the release/custody determination. Any
judge who is looking at a bail case would like to
know -- I have a guy who has been arrested on grand
theft auto. He has no criminal history.
Should I release him back on the street?
Well, it's a first offense, he has family ties, maybe
yes. If that judge --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dreeben, can you
explain how it works, mechanically? Because I
understand -- at least maybe this is just the Maryland
statute, but if you can't use the swab that is taken
from the arrestee when he is arrested -- it can't be
used, it's inadmissible -- then you do it again. You do
it -- but what it does supply is probable cause because
you found out that he was a perpetrator of a rape 6
years ago.
Then you have probable cause and you get a
warrant and do it again. What -- what is the reason for
the doubling -- the doing it twice?
MR. DREEBEN: That serves an enhanced
reliability function, to ensure that there is no mix-up,
and it provides an evidentiary function of permitting
the new DNA match to be admitted in a sample that is
taken under the warrant.
It has nothing to do with undercutting the
value of taking DNA on the spot because I was indicating
the judge who would know this defendant's DNA came back
and returned a cold case hit to a murder-rape. He's not
such a good risk to be put back on the street.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That argument only
makes sense if we're in your -- your future world where
it's 90 minutes, right?
MR. DREEBEN: No, Mr. Chief Justice --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It depends on -- if
we have a situation such as Maryland says, 11 to
17 days, the footnote, whatever, the amicus brief says
something else, but you are not going to put off the
bail hearing for 2 weeks?
MR. DREEBEN: No, but bail can be revoked,
and the government will go back in and make a motion to
revoke bail, if new information emerges that indicates
this individual is a danger to the community.
And the whole point of this is we are
talking about arrestees, somebody who has taken a step
into the gateway of the criminal justice system. The
criminal justice system, at that point, has to deal with
this person.
It has to know who is this person, which
includes what has this person done, so we know whether
to release him and, if we keep him, in what situations
do we keep him.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That doesn't explain why
you can't go into his home.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, it does, Justice --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean -- you know, if
the whole issue is how dangerous is he, you should be
able to go into his home, into his car, to any place he
has visited, to just sort of run rampant in his life to
make sure that he is not a bail risk.
MR. DREEBEN: We are not asking for that,
and I don't think that the Court's balancing test
suggests that these two cases are equivalent. My first
submission is that because we are talking about --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you are because what
you are saying really is law enforcement need, alone,
without any suspicion whatsoever of another crime,
permits you to take this information from the person and
use it.
MR. DREEBEN: I'm saying that because an
arrestee is someone whose conduct has given rise to
probable cause that he committed a crime, he's in a
different position from ordinary citizens. And this
Court does, as it did in Samson and in Knights, balance
the expectations of privacy against the governmental
interests.
And, here, the expectation of privacy is
minimal in the cheek swab, and the information obtained.
It's identical --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: According to Samson
and Knights, you're dealing with people who are still
subject to the -- a criminal sentence.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, they're differently
situated in that respect, Mr. Chief Justice. And I will
acknowledge that there is no case on my side that
decides the case this way. And there's no case that --
on Respondent's side that decides the case for him. The
Court, I think, has treated the category of what he
calls special needs cases -- what the Court has called
special needs cases -- as dealing with suspicionless or
warrantless intrusions on ordinary citizens.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But the typical special
needs case is one in which we say there's no law
enforcement interest, that there's an interest other
than the interest in solving crime.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, we have a strong law
enforcement interest with respect to people who are
arrested based on probable cause. They are no longer
similarly situated to other people. They can be
deprived of their liberty. Their property can be
searched upon entry into the jail.
JUSTICE KAGAN: When you started,
Mr. Dreeben, you started by saying -- you know, they
have a reduced expectation of privacy, and we have
important interests. You went right into free-form
balancing. That's typically not the way we do it.
If we said to you, look -- you know, the way
we do it is you need a warrant, and if you -- there is
some exceptions, then you have to put yourself into a
well-recognized exception where you can search without a
warrant. And that's especially the case when there is
no suspicion whatsoever.
How would you do it? How would you do it
short of free-form balancing? What exception are you a
part of?
MR. DREEBEN: We're not asking for a new
exception. What we're asking for is for the Court to
apply what it called "the key principle of the Fourth
Amendment." It said that in Bell v. Wolfish. It said
that in Martinez --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The key principle is the
Fourth Amendment --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it -- is it your
position that this is a search incident to an arrest?
MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Kennedy, it's not.
That stands on its own doctrinal footing. But we do
think the fact that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why isn't this is a search
incident to an arrest?
MR. DREEBEN: It is certainly a search --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just -- just like taking
the pockets out and -- and seeing what's in the person's
overcoat and so forth is a search incident to an arrest.
MR. DREEBEN: You can certainly look at it
as an incident of the arrest. The Court's search
incident to arrest cases have been bottomed on different
justifications than the ones that we're advancing here.
I'm entirely happy if you, Justice Kennedy,
view it as an incident to arrest in that sense because I
think that it is appropriately viewed as something that
the government has a compelling interest in doing once a
person has been arrested, and that is, knowing who that
person is, which includes knowing what the person has
done.
And DNA does that in a far more powerful way
than fingerprints has done --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but our -- our search
incident to arrest cases don't allow that. That's sort
of the point. They -- they allow you to search for
firearms, they allow you to search for material that
relates to the crime for which the person has been
arrested.
But you can't search the person for other
stuff.
MR. DREEBEN: That's inaccurate,
Justice Scalia. A search incident to arrest allows a
full search of the person for any destructible
evidence because a person who has been arrested has a
tremendous incentive to destroy evidence.
And I just want to come back --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait. Evidence
relating to matters other than the crime of arrest?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, on -- on the individual's
person. The crime of arrest limitation appears only in
Arizona v. Gant, and it relates to cars. But I think
it's critical to note that Respondent has conceded that
an individual can have their DNA taken once convicted.
Suppose we have the same individual who's
picked up on grand theft auto, and that individual knows
that, if he's convicted of grand theft auto, he is going
to have his DNA taken, but he also knows that he's
committed a string of rapes. And, if the government
cannot take his DNA now, it will not connect him -- may
I complete the sentence -- it will not connect him to
those rapes.
So he has a tremendous incentive to flee.
The government has a tremendous need for this
information at the time of arrest to solve crimes,
exonerate the innocent, and give closure to victims.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dreeben.
Mr. Shanmugam?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
Maryland searched my client without a
warrant, in order to investigate crimes for which there
was no suspicion. It is settled law that warrantless,
suspicionless searches are presumptively
unconstitutional.
The State cites no --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: He was held -- he was held
with probable cause --
MR. SHANMUGAM: That is correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- and his -- and his
custody was restrained. He was in a police station.
MR. SHANMUGAM: That is also correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Were handcuffs put on him
during the transport process? Do you know?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I don't know that the record
indicates that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But they -- they could --
they could have been?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So his liberties were
constrained in all of those respects. He would have to
take off most of his clothes, subject to a patdown
search?
MR. SHANMUGAM: We're --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: They could look -- they
could look in his -- in his briefcase?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes. Just to be clear,
Justice Kennedy, we're not disputing the proposition
that certain intrusions on privacy are permissible as to
arrestees, but where we fundamentally disagree with the
State and the Federal Government is with regard to the
argument that this Court should take the rationale of
Samson v. California and essentially extend that
rationale to the point of arrest.
The government --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think -- I think there
is some merit to your argument in that regard. In
Samson, he was a parolee, and he actually, as I recall,
signed a -- a consent form as part of the probation.
MR. SHANMUGAM: That is correct. An agreed
part of the condition of parole. That is -- that is
correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that is right.
But I'm curious as to why your position is that -- let's
say he served his time. He's no longer subject to the
criminal justice system. He's not on parole; he's not a
probationer. You concede that the DNA evidence can be
taken from him, correct?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I would concede,
Mr. Chief Justice, that it -- that it could be taken at
least while he is still under the supervision of the
State because, after all, both Samson and Knights were
cases in which the individual was still under State
supervision; that is to say, we're not arguing that, at
the point of conviction, that the resulting lessened
expectation of privacy extends in perpetuity as, say, a
firearm or felon disability does.
But what we are arguing is that -- to look
at this Court's cases in Samson and Knights, they both
centrally depended on the proposition that it is the
fact of conviction that deprives an individual of the
full protections of the Fourth Amendment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the
pertinence of the fact -- I mean, this is not something
that people are or can keep private. I mean, if you're
in the interview room or something, you take a drink of
water, you leave, you're done. I mean, they can examine
the DNA from that drink of water.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, Mr. Chief Justice --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Doesn't that
compromise the -- the expectation of privacy?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think it's an open
question as to whether or not there would be a search
when DNA is collected from cells that could be said to
have been involuntarily or voluntarily abandoned.
And, to the extent that there's an argument
that there would still be a search, it would be based on
this Court's reasoning in Skinner, where the Court
suggested that the subsequent analysis of a urine sample
would constitute a further invasion of the test of --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, it's not a --
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- the privacy interest.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: My question was not
trying to get at whether it's a search or not. It's
whether -- it's getting at the reasonableness of the
expectation of privacy that the -- your DNA is protected
from examination when it's left wherever you happened to
have been.
MR. SHANMUGAM: I would say two things about
the privacy interests at stake here. First of all,
there is an intrusion into the body, and that is what
triggers the applicability of the Fourth Amendment here,
to be sure, but it is also a relevant intrusion for
Fourth Amendment purposes.
But, secondly, and perhaps more importantly,
there is a legitimate expectation of privacy in the
contents of an individual's DNA. And, to the extent
that this Court were to engage in balancing, we
certainly think that interest is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I mean, isn't
that part of the -- isn't that part of the question,
whether there is a legitimate expectation of privacy in
a person's DNA?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes, and we think that the
answer to that question is yes, that an individual
has --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know, but
you're simply just -- you're -- I guess that's begging
the question. And -- but I'd just be repeating my
question -- how legitimate is it to you to expect
privacy in something that the police can access without
you even knowing about it, without any voluntary or
involuntary -- if you take a drink of water, if you
leave behind a cigarette butt?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well -- Mr. Chief Justice,
I've heard Mr. Dreeben to concede, as I think he must,
that an individual retains a legitimate expectation of
privacy in at least some of the information contained in
the individual's DNA.
And I suppose we can have a dispute about
what types of information would qualify. But I think it
really is settled that there are profound privacy
concerns raised by the government's coming into
possession of an individual's DNA.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Shanmugam, I -- I
wouldn't have made the concession that you've made, that
this case is about reasonable expectation of privacy.
If there's no reasonable expectation of privacy, there's
no search.
But, here, there is a search. You have a
physical intrusion. You -- you pull a guy's cheek apart
and stick a -- a swab into his mouth. That's a search,
reasonable expectation of privacy or not.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well -- Justice Scalia, I
didn't think I was conceding anything, but if I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I thought you did.
MR. SHANMUGAM: If I was -- let me just be
clear. We don't think that this Court should be
engaging in balancing here. Indeed, that is really our
principal submission to this Court.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, do you think the
intrusion is worse when you just take a swab and you go
inside somebody's cheek, as opposed to rolling
fingerprints? Which is the greater intrusion?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we think that it is
settled that intrusions into the body constitute a
search for Fourth Amendment purposes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Which is --
MR. SHANMUGAM: I suppose that the argument
could be made, Justice Alito, that there is a similar
trespass on the person and, therefore, a search when
fingerprints are collected. I would note,
parenthetically, that, in the first half an hour of this
argument, we heard no explanation, either by the State
or by the Federal government, as to their theory as to
why fingerprinting is constitutional.
Now, we --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the thrust of a lot of
what we -- we have been presented with in the briefs and
what we have heard this morning -- and, by the way, I
think this is perhaps the most important criminal
procedure case that this Court has heard in decades.
The -- the attorney for the State began by
listing a number of crimes just in Maryland that had
been solved using this. So this is what is at stake:
Lots of murders, lots of rapes that can be -- that can
be solved using this new technology that involves a very
minimal intrusion on personal privacy.
But why isn't this the fingerprinting of the
21st century? What is the difference? If it was
permissible and it's been -- it's been assumed to be so
for decades, that it is permissible to fingerprint
anybody who's booked, why is it not permissible to take
a DNA sample from anybody who is arrested?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Alito, we think that
fingerprinting is distinguishable on three grounds.
First of all, as a practical matter, an individual's DNA
contains far more information and far more personal
information than an individual's fingerprints. But, as
a doctrinal matter, we think that fingerprinting is
distinguishable --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, as to -- as to the
first, in our cases involving searches for -- where a
urine sample is taken to determine drug use, the urine
can be analyzed for all sorts of things besides the
presence of drugs, and the Court has said, in those
cases, we are only going to consider that -- we are
considering that this is a reasonable search with
respect to the determination of whether the person has
taken drugs, not all the other information --
MR. SHANMUGAM: But that is because --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- that might be obtained
from it.
MR. SHANMUGAM: But that is because,
Justice Alito, in those cases, cases like Skinner and
Von Raab and Vernonia, there was a special need, apart
from the ordinary interests in law enforcement. And,
here, it is clear that the primary purpose of the
Maryland statute and, indeed, the similar statutes on
the Federal and State levels, was the ordinary interest
in crime control, to solve unsolved crimes.
And that is why those special needs cases
are distinguishable. And I think that's why the State,
essentially, disavows any reliance on the Special Needs
Doctrine --
JUSTICE KAGAN: What are your other two
distinctions?
MR. SHANMUGAM: With regard to
fingerprinting, we think that, notwithstanding the
physical intrusion involved with taking an individual's
fingers and putting them on the pad, that the better
view is that fingerprinting is not a search, and, to the
extent that this Court has addressed the question, it
has suggested that fingerprinting is not a search
because an individual has no expectation of privacy in
their fingerprints because their fingers are constantly
exposed --
JUSTICE BREYER: I would like a complete
answer to what Justice Alito and Justice Kagan both were
asking, I think. I mean, to summarize that, if I look,
in terms of intrusion, I am not talking legally, I am
talking practically. It doesn't seem to me -- I can
argue that it is certainly a much lesser intrusion than
fingerprints. You have to stand there, have the thing
rolled; your -- stick out your tongue. I mean, it's
hard to say it's more, for me, I'm not saying for
others.
Accuracy, it's much more accurate, and that
doesn't just help the defendant. There is a whole brief
here filed by the victims that have case after case,
where people spent 5 years in prison, wrongly, and where
this system and the CODIS helped victims avoid being
arrested and sent to jail when they were innocent, so it
works both ways.
So, one, it's no more intrusive; two, it is
much more accurate. And three and four and five, how
it's different and worse in practice, is what I would
ask you to summarize.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Sure. Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: And, by the way, when you
talk about what information you could get out of it,
there is a brief filed by leading scientists in the
field, and I came away from the brief thinking there
isn't much more information because fingerprints can be
abused, too.
Of course, you can learn loads from
fingerprints. Photos, try photos; my God, you could
learn a lot, who he was, who -- you know, so all these
things could be abused. But I came away from that
brief, frankly, to think, well, in terms of the
possibility of abuse, it's there, but these other
things, photos, too.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Breyer, let me --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, now, you tell
me, in light of that hostile question --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: -- I would like you -- I
would like you to tell me, okay, it's different from
fingerprints and worse because of one, two, three, and I
will write it down, and I'll remember it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He gave us one and two. I
have been waiting for three. Will you drop the shoe?
(Laughter.)
MR. SHANMUGAM: Let me -- I will gladly get
to three with regard to fingerprinting, and then I would
like to say a word about balancing, in the event that
the Court reaches it. Obviously, we don't think that
balancing is appropriate here because we don't think
that the Special Needs Doctrine is applicable, and we
don't think that Samson should be extended to arrestees.
But, with regard to fingerprinting, the
other reason why we think fingerprinting is different,
above and beyond the fact that we think the better view
is that fingerprinting is not a search, is because
fingerprinting, as it is currently practiced, does serve
a special need.
The primary purpose of fingerprinting is to
identify an individual who is being taken into the
criminal justice system.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, Mr. Shanmugam, that
seems to me a real distinction in this case, as it's
been litigated. I take what the government is saying is
something like, give us 5 years, and those won't look
very different.
In other words, we will be able to do, in 5
years' time, exactly what we can do with fingerprinting,
except it will be, as Justice Breyer says, more
accurate. So we are just about 5 years ahead of that,
so give us a break.
MR. SHANMUGAM: And my response to that
would be that, under the Special Needs Doctrine, what is
relevant is not how a system could conceivably operate;
what is relevant is the primary purpose behind the
program at issue.
So, if the government were to come back in 5
years' time with a DNA testing program, the primary
purpose of which was pretrial supervision or
identification, one of these other purposes that is
being offered, then, sure, the analysis would be
different.
That is simply a consequence of the fact
that this Special Needs Doctrine, unlike the rest of the
Fourth Amendment, looks to purpose, namely, the purpose
of the program at issue.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: A person -- a person has
been arrested for a felony and is in custody, do the
police -- does the justice system have an interest in
knowing whether that person committed other crimes?
MR. SHANMUGAM: The justice system always
has an interest in law enforcement and solving crimes,
and we certainly don't dispute that proposition. But
what we do dispute is Mr. Dreeben's principal submission
to this Court, which is that simply because law
enforcement can do certain things to arrestees, it can
do others.
The primary thing is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: My question is whether or
not the police, who have John Doe in custody for a
felony, have an interest in knowing, at the outset or
within a few weeks' time, whether or not that person has
committed other crimes?
MR. SHANMUGAM: The difference between an
arrestee and an ordinary citizen, Justice Kennedy, is
that, as to an arrestee, the police have probable cause
to believe that the arrestee committed a particular
offense.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But they also have a
reason for keeping him in custody.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Related --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And my -- my question is,
do they have an interest -- a legitimate interest in
knowing if that person has committed other crimes?
MR. SHANMUGAM: They have that interest,
but, if they want to investigate other crimes, they have
to do what they would have to do as to an ordinary
citizen. They have to have a warrant or some level of
individualized suspicion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There are two
different -- two different interests. One is we want to
solve unsolved crimes; and the other is we want to be
sure -- we have someone in our custody, and we want to
be sure, before he is released back into the community,
that he isn't a person who has committed five violent
crimes before that.
Now, your brief says, well, the only
interest here is the law enforcement interest. And I
found that persuasive because of the concern that it's
going to take months to get the DNA back anyway, so they
are going to have to release him or not before they know
it.
But if we are in a position where it now
takes 90 minutes -- or will soon take 90 minutes to get
the information back, I think that's entirely
different because, there, you can find out whether --
it's just tied in with the bail situation, do you want
to release him or not?
MR. SHANMUGAM: The touchstone of the
analysis, under the Special Needs Doctrine, is what was
the primary purpose of the program at issue. And there
is no evidence that pretrial supervision was a purpose
of any of these.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's
because -- that's because we are not yet at a situation
where it takes 90 minutes. Sure, it's not going to do
you any good if it's taking 4 months or whatever it took
in this case.
But, if it's at the point where it's 90
minutes, it would be critical to make that
determination.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, as
I said to Justice Kagan, the constitutional analysis may
very well change at later point. But I think it's
important to underscore that neither the State of
Maryland nor the Federal government identifies a single
instance in which a pretrial supervision decision in
their jurisdictions was altered as a result of the DNA
test.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, let's put it
this way. Let's -- let's say the judge or the
magistrate is going to make a bail determination and he
says, well, it's important to me to know whether you are
going to commit another crime.
So we are not saying you have to give a DNA
sample, but it will enter into my calculation if you
refuse to do it.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, outside the
programmatic context, ordinary Fourth Amendment rules
would apply. And ordinary --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what does that
mean? Is that okay or not?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think, in that
circumstance, where there is no individualized
suspicion, a search cannot occur. And an
arrestee stands --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we do it --
doesn't that sound just like a Breathalyzer? You are
pulled over, they say, we want you to take a
Breathalyzer test. They say, you don't have to, but, if
you don't, your license is suspended for 6 months or
whatever.
Why isn't that the same thing.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well -- you know, I will say
that the one thing that is slightly different about your
hypothetical, Mr. Chief Justice, is that the analysis
might be somewhat different where what you are talking
about is a condition of release. I think you would
trigger the Unconstitutional Conditions Doctrine and the
analysis might operate somewhat separately -- somewhat
differently.
But, just to conclude with regard to my
answer with Justice Kennedy and then to get back to the
rest of Justice Breyer's question, Justice Kennedy, with
regard to arrestees, the intrusions on privacy that are
permissible are all intrusions that relate to the
arrest.
So to take the two principal examples, the
Search Incident to Arrest Doctrine, which you mentioned,
and searches associated with an individual's continued
detention, so the strip searching example, those
doctrines have discrete justifications that limit their
scope.
So the Search Incident to Arrest Doctrine
permits searches for officer safety, to prevent
destruction of evidence, and at least in the vehicular
context, to search for evidence related to the offense
of arrest.
Now, none of those rationales apply here,
and I would note, parenthetically, that in
Schmerber v. California, this Court suggested that the
Search Incident to Arrest Doctrine would not permit
searches into the body. It will permit only --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we are also talking
about identity. I assume that, in Maryland and in a
number of States, the time between release on bail and
return for trial is more than four months.
And, if it's found, as an identity matter,
that this person has a criminal record or that they
are -- is suspected of serious crimes, that is a
mandatory ground for reconsideration of bail. And you
say there is no interest in that.
MR. SHANMUGAM: I am not disputing that the
government has an interest in knowing about prior
offenses that an individual has committed. What I am
simply saying is that the primary purpose of DNA
testing, unlike fingerprinting, is to investigate
unsolved crimes.
That is the ordinary interest in law
enforcement, and when the government is indicating --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought
fingerprinting -- Mr. Shanmugam, I thought
fingerprinting was used to determine whether they -- the
person has a record. We have this person, and now, we
check the fingerprints to find out if he has a prior
record, that's different from to find out if he has
committed a crime that we don't know about.
But -- but are fingerprints used to
determine whether the person has a prior record?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Fingerprints taken upon
booking are primarily used for the purpose of
identification, and, by identification, I would include
determining whether the individual had a prior criminal
record because, as IAFIS is currently structured, that
is information that is returned once there is a hit for
that initial search.
Now --
JUSTICE ALITO: What was the purpose of
fingerprinting before it was possible to make
fingerprint comparisons by computer?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think fingerprinting
really has, from the outset, served the purpose of
identification because fingerprinting really came into
being approximately 100 years ago because, in large
urban areas, officers could no longer identify
individuals on sight.
Now, to be sure, fingerprinting does serve a
law enforcement purpose as well. As Mr. Dreeben
indicated, there is a latent fingerprint database that
roughly corresponds to --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I would assume that,
before it was possible to do computer searches, the way
in which fingerprinting established identification, what
it did in that respect was to identify the person
arrested on this occasion, so that, if the person was
arrested again, then the police would know that it was
the same person.
There was no way of -- no practicable way of
taking the fingerprints of somebody who was booked and
determining whether that person -- you didn't have
anything to compare it to. And they certainly -- you
couldn't do it manually.
MR. SHANMUGAM: That is true. But, again,
the purpose of fingerprinting, as it developed over
time, was identification in the sense that, as
fingerprints were being collected, individuals could
proceed to be identified based on prior --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can we go back to --
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, so you know that, on
day one, you have arrested -- you've arrested Mr. X, and
then, a year later, you arrest somebody else, and you
know it's Mr. X again. And DNA can do exactly the same
thing, except more accurately.
MR. SHANMUGAM: But I think it's important
to realize, Justice Alito, that at least, as the DNA
system is currently constituted, when an arrestee's
profile is prepared, it is compared against the offender
and arrestee indices, not the forensic index.
And, indeed, as we understand it -- and I
think Mr. Dreeben's discussion of this is probably
consistent with this, at least on the Federal level, it
is not permissible to take that profile and search it
against the offender and arrestee indices.
Now, that very well may occur in certain
States. We don't have any reason to believe that that
is what takes place in Maryland. But, again, this is
really what distinguishes the way in
which fingerprinting is --
JUSTICE BREYER: I think I can totally lose
this because -- because I have a confusion that you can
clear up. There is something to what you say. I see
what you are saying. But what does this word
"identification" mean? It's used for identification.
We have a person, he's been arrested.
He writes his name down, Mr. Smith. Maybe
he's lying. We have his picture. Well, his picture's
pretty good. If he turns up in a bar somewhere in the
future, we can look, see, and that's awfully good.
And, now, you say, well, what is
fingerprinting doing that photos aren't doing, in terms
of identification? What does it do, in terms of just
identification?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: What does it do?
MR. SHANMUGAM: We think it means
determining or confirming the identity of an individual.
JUSTICE BREYER: What does that mean,
confirming his identity? We have -- you mean what?
What exactly?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Confirming, for instance, in
this case, that the individual in the government's
custody was Alonzo King.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, really? I mean, do you
think the fingerprints -- where do you go to find out if
he's Alonzo King? A lot of people have never had their
fingerprints taken before.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, but 73 million people
are in the criminal offender --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what it's for? To
determine what his name really is?
MR. SHANMUGAM: And his criminal -- and, to
be sure, his adjudicated criminal history, which can
also be --
JUSTICE BREYER: Ah. You want to determine
what his name really is, plus his adjudicated criminal
history, and, here, we have the DNA, which I guess might
or might not help determine what his name really is,
and, with criminal history, it does about the same. And
also fingerprints are sometimes used to -- for unsolved
crimes, and they are sometimes used for unsolved crimes,
but your point really is more for unsolved crimes.
Have I got it.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Breyer, no, I think,
with respect, you haven't. With regard to DNA testing,
a DNA profile -- at least as the Federal system is
configured -- is compared against the forensic index.
That is the index of samples from unsolved crimes. And
so that is really in contradistinction to how the
fingerprint database works.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I -- I am
really worried about the question you haven't satisfied
me with, which is I agree completely that, today, it's
used primarily and almost exclusively for purposes of
solving other crimes.
But let's -- is this -- the question that I
think one of my colleagues asked, is that only because
technology hasn't moved fast enough?
You said we have to look at the
constitutional principles 5 years from now, when they
will use it to pull up a guy's criminal history, not
unsolved crimes, but criminal history. Get to that day.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Sure. Well,
Justice Sotomayor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me what the -- tell
me what the -- why you would then say that would still
be unconstitutional?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Sotomayor, assuming
that this Court does not accept the proposition that
arrestees are somehow subject to a lessened expectation
of privacy, the only other --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right. Let's assume we
go under a normal Fourth Amendment, you need probable
cause to search.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Right. And the only other
potentially applicable exception to the principle that
warrantless, suspicionless searches are unconstitutional
is the special needs exception, and that exception looks
to the primary purpose of the program at issue.
And the mere fact that DNA testing could be
used for other purposes wouldn't necessarily be
dispositive of the inquiry. If the primary purpose of
DNA testing is still to investigate unsolved crimes, the
program would still not qualify under the Special Needs
Doctrine.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Shanmugam, just
suppose -- I mean, I guess the question is would this be
unconstitutional? It's not the world we are living in
now, but let me -- 10 years from now, the government
says, we are really switching over to a fingerprint
system -- to a DNA system, and what that system is going
to allow us to do is it's going to allow us to identify,
and it's going to allow us to bring up the old criminal
history, and it's going to allow us to see whether there
are also unsolved crimes that we can tag to this person
and discover that he's really, really dangerous.
All right? And so the government puts that
system into effect. Is it constitutional?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think that it could be,
and that would simply be because you would have a system
where DNA testing is essentially being used as
fingerprinting is being used today. But, again, I don't
think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I was interested in a
broader thought process, actually. Do you mind giving
it to me?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well -- well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which is, there is
something inherently dangerous about DNA collection that
is not the same as fingerprinting.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, there is, and that
gets me back, finally, to the rest of Justice Breyer's
question from a few minutes ago because Justice Breyer
had kind of asked how the analysis should work, in the
event that the Court were to proceed to balancing.
And so I just want to say a word about the
relevant privacy interests and the relevant governmental
interests and to explain why we think that the relevant
privacy interests outweigh those governmental interests.
On the privacy side of the ledger, we
certainly believe that there are profound privacy
concerns associated with the government's collection of
an individual's DNA. And, leaving aside the question of
how much personal information is contained in the 13
loci -- and we certainly think that there is significant
personal information, even as to those loci -- I don't
think there can be any dispute that, when you evaluate
the entirety of an individual's DNA, there is a great
deal of personal information contained there. And, in
our view, that has to be taken into account when
engaging in balancing.
Now, the government's response to that is
essentially the "just trust us" defense; namely, that
the government is not looking at all that information,
it is only looking at a certain subset of that
information. But that has never been how this Court has
analyzed privacy interests, at least outside the special
needs context.
Probably the closest analog is this Court's
decision in Tyler v. United States, where the Court said
that it was of no moment that the heat-sensing device
that was at issue in that case did not detect any
information about the intimate details of activities
within the home.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You -- you disclose
all of this intimate private information when you take a
drink of water and leave -- leave the glass behind.
MR. SHANMUGAM: But, Mr. Chief Justice, as I
said at the outset, we believe that there might still
be -- indeed, we think the better view under this
Court's cases is that there would still be a Fourth
Amendment search there.
The only difference would be that you don't
have the intrusion into the body that makes the question
of whether or not there is a search here an easy one.
Now, I want to say just a word about the
governmental --
JUSTICE ALITO: What if someone has a bloody
shirt and throws it away in the trash -- in a public
trash can along the street, you are saying that the
police can't analyze that without a search warrant?
MR. SHANMUGAM: The argument would be that
the subsequent analysis of the DNA, nevertheless, still
constitutes a search. And the most significant decision
on this issue, to date, is the Fourth Circuit's decision
in United States v. Davis, which I would encourage you
to look at, if you are interested in this issue, because
it holds that the extraction of the DNA from an item
that was lawfully in the government's custody still
constitutes a search.
Let me say just a word, though, about the
governmental side of the balance here because I think
this is important. Ms. Winfree started with the
statistics about the efficacy of DNA testing of
arrestees, but our submission is, simply, that, when you
look at the relevant subset of cases, namely individuals
who have been arrested, but who are not subsequently
convicted of the offense of arrest, the law enforcement
value of DNA testing is relatively modest.
My understanding is that --
JUSTICE ALITO: But your client was
convicted of the offense of arrest.
MR. SHANMUGAM: That is correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: And it was a serious
offense, punishable by up to 10 years imprisonment.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, my client --
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that correct? And he
was sentenced to 4 years.
MR. SHANMUGAM: That is -- my client was
convicted of the crime of arrest, to be sure. But,
under the Maryland statute, that crime was not a serious
enough crime to qualify for DNA collection at that
point.
JUSTICE ALITO: For Fourth Amendment
purposes -- for Fourth Amendment purposes, do you think
that it is -- that it is permissible to take a DNA
sample from someone who is convicted of an offense that
would qualify as a felony under common law?
MR. SHANMUGAM: We think that it would be
permissible to collect DNA from any individual who has
been convicted and is subjected to the continued
supervision of the State. And that is simply because
those individuals have a lessened expectation of
privacy.
But just to get on the table --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When they're no longer in
the custody of the State, does the government have to
destroy it? They served their time, and their
privileges have been restored.
MR. SHANMUGAM: We don't -- we don't think,
in that circumstance, Justice Ginsburg, that the
government would have to destroy the DNA sample. But
we --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does a felon who's been
arrested have a reduced expectation of privacy at the
time of arrest?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I'm sorry? A felon who has
been --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does a felon -- does a
person who has been arrested for a felony have a reduced
expectation of privacy at the time of his arrest?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I would not say that that
person has a reduced expectation of privacy. What I
would say is that there are certain intrusions on
privacy, some of which are quite substantial, that are
permissible because there are justifications unique to
the arrest.
So, in Florence, this Court permitted the
strip search of an individual who is being admitted into
the general jail population, based on the special need
of ensuring prison safety and preventing contraband from
being introduced into the prison.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Winfree, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KATHERINE WINFREE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. WINFREE: On the question of rapid DNA,
the FBI estimates that we're about 18 to 24 months away
from that world, and I would cite the National District
Attorneys Association's amicus brief on page 20 where it
discusses the -- that this is not science fiction. So
we are very, very close to that.
And I wanted to just address a couple of the
questions that arose during Respondent's presentation.
Justice Kennedy, the State does have a compelling need
and a compelling interest in knowing who is in its
custody, and arrestees do not have a legitimate
expectation of privacy in their identity.
We have a legitimate and compelling need to
identify suspects and to aid in solving crimes.
And our -- and our definition of what
identification is, is somewhat broader than
Respondent's. It's not just what his name is and what
his face is and what his fingerprints show. It is that
CODIS DNA profile, those 26 numbers, so that -- in our
view, that's a broader definition of -- of identity.
And I wanted also, just finally, to address
Justice Alito's question. This is the fingerprinting of
the 21st century, but it's better. Typically, DNA
evidence is used to identify rapes and murderers.
Fingerprints typically do not solve those kinds of
crimes.
And, if the primary purpose of
fingerprinting is just to identify, it also is used --
fingerprinting, now, is used -- the prints are compared
against the latent database in IAFIS, and they are used
to solve crimes. But they typically don't solve the
kind of crimes that we are talking about here, and it
wouldn't have been solved in Mr. -- in Mr. King's case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How can I base a
decision today on what you tell me is going to happen in
2 years? You say, in 2 years, we will have this rapid
DNA available, but we don't now.
Don't I have to base a decision on what we
have today?
MS. WINFREE: Well, that's really only one
component of our argument, Mr. Chief Justice, that,
certainly, with respect to a bail determination, we will
be able to make it more rapidly at the time that that
rapid DNA comes into effect. But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but, if we believe
that the purpose of it has much to do with whether it's
legitimate or not, you can't demonstrate that the --
that the purpose is immediate identification of the
people coming into custody, you just can't demonstrate
that now. Maybe you can in 2 years.
The purpose now is -- is the purpose you
began your presentation with, to catch the bad guys,
which is a good thing. But -- you know, the Fourth
Amendment sometimes stands in the way.
MS. WINFREE: It has a corollary purpose,
Justice Scalia. What we are suggesting and arguing is
that solving crimes, to be sure, is the key component,
but in solving crimes and connecting an arrestee to a
crime that's unsolved informs a judge's determination
about whether to release that individual.
And, as Mr. Dreeben said, bail modifications
can happen; they do happen all the time. And, in
Maryland, it's going to have -- it's going to be
happening before rapid DNA. Right now, we are able to
make that determination in a period between 11 and
17 days.
So we are not asking you to base your
decision on the futuristic world, which is really only 2
years out, with rapid DNA anyway. But we can make those
bail determinations now, and, in fact, they are
important for where we house prisoners and -- and how we
supervise them in custody.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:11 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
appropriate 11:1,19 12:8 B
61:18 allow 17:9 27:12 appropriately 22:2 24:10 6:8,12 8:20,25
62:5 53:10,11,12 approximately 44:20 49:7,12 18:12,16 19:15
13:20 Alonzo 1:6 April 4:15 arrestees 3:12 22:17,19 23:5
38:4,12 44:13 52:16 9:4,9 10:10 aside 54:16 21:17 23:3,4,6
55:20 57:12,13 11:12 14:12 asked 51:25 23:24 43:6
6:1 14:13 23:1 34:25 35:5 26:5,6 37:21 balance 24:13
40:25 43:9,22 arrest 4:15,15 59:8 34:15 39:17,19
analyze 17:14 26:18,22,24,25 52:15 bar 50:1
58:22 analyzed 36:11 28:1,3,17 assuming 52:11 61:21
anybody 6:23 58:20 attempting basing 10:24,24
anyway 4:20,21 8:5 9:10,18 attorney 1:15 35:14 61:6
34:17 applicability 27:22 35:25 available 60:16 18:22 42:1
35:1,9 32:18 38:9 41:7 48:9 average 18:3 49:14 54:14
applicable 39:20 48:10,24,24 avoid 38:8 55:17 60:24
47:17 52:19 49:23 56:20 awfully 50:2 Bell 26:8
55:18 44:10 60:2 citizens 12:11 comparing 19:1
California 18:2 certain 6:17 14:19 15:5,6 20:22
30:9 46:5 49:13 55:3 class 9:12 13:6 19:13
46:7 calls 25:3 26:19,23 32:25 57:4,7 19:20 27:5
car 9:23 11:22 37:24 41:12 close 17:13 59:13,14,17
48:13 card 6:5 60:21 closest 55:7 37:19
case 3:4 4:23,24 character 15:18 clothes 29:23 51:21
44:22,24 16:9,23 17:7 charges 6:15 cold 8:15,15 31:22
21:17 22:18 20:12 47:4 22:18 47:19 48:6
17:23 24:24,25,25 cheek 10:19 colleagues 51:25 computerized
25:1,7,25 34:3 12:6 24:17 collect 3:11 5:11 19:13
38:16 35:13 38:6,6 34:7,19 7:2 57:18 concede 30:23
40:13 40:7 43:17 Chief 1:15 3:3,9 collected 31:25 30:25 33:17
50:8,11 50:15 55:10 6:16,19,20 7:5 35:3 48:20 conceded 28:5
51:3 60:12 62:3,4 7:16 10:25 collection 6:17 conceding 34:11
54:6 cases 8:14,15 14:10,15 15:11 54:2,15 57:10 conceivably
11:22 24:2 22:23,24 24:19 18:12,16 27:24 concern 42:23
17:25 27:12 31:4,10 30:19 31:1,14 comes 8:19,20 33:24 54:15
20:25 36:9,13,21,21 31:20,21 32:7 11:3 17:4 21:3 concession 34:2
38:5,18 37:3 55:19 32:9 33:1,8,16 60:23 conclude 45:11
39:1 56:19 42:14 43:13,21 coming 33:24 concludes 16:11
59:8 Castillo 6:4,6 44:4,15,21 61:3 condition 30:17
11:7,11 13:8 Circuit's 56:8 42:1,8,19 conducted 3:17
52:17 citation 7:14 42:18 50:10,12,14
31:6,12 24:6,11 25:9 depends 22:24
3:18 37:2 44:8 47:6 D 3:1 deprives 31:12
cornerstone 9:1 61:13 dangerous design 17:16
correct 4:20 5:4 13:23 19:24 database 18:1 destructible
13:20 14:3 35:15 37:2 48:3 51:18 45:25
30:18,24 57:1 51:9,10,16,23 day 48:24 52:5 detention 45:20
48:4 60:11 61:11,12 23:1 61:20 21:16 36:15
8:8 35:7 51:19 59:1 15:8 19:23 dealing 24:20 60:21 61:13,19
52:3 62:2 21:19 23:10,11 25:4 determinations
couple 5:5 59:11 24:21 30:22 decades 35:13 4:10 61:24
38:22 46:13 47:12 decide 7:21 9:8 36:10 47:2,8
3:10 7:11,21 51:4,7 52:4,5 decides 24:25 determining
14:16 16:10,10 criminals 4:2 decision 8:3 48:14 50:10
26:6 29:1 30:8 28:5 43:19 55:8 56:7,8 device 20:20,21
55:6 39:18 41:14 14:13 38:5 11:5 16:19
54:8 55:4,8 currently 6:14 22:17 55:21
Court's 8:3 49:5 definition 59:19 13:3 17:1
26:24 31:10 8:5,6 9:10 11:6 delay 5:7 38:13 39:9,23
credit 6:5 42:17 50:16 Department 45:4,6 47:5
57:8 13:13,14 14:25 59:15 61:3 depended 31:11 24:22 45:10
18:18 19:8 62:1 dependent disability 31:8
36:6 emerges 23:6 example 8:15 factual 15:21
53:3 24:5 25:8,11 26:3,6 52:19 fast 52:1
54:20 Doe 41:19 42:22 46:24 exceptions FBI's 19:1
50:4,4 engage 32:24 exclusively Federal 20:14
40:7 Dreeben 1:17 enhanced 22:10 expect 33:11 51:14
37:4 16:4,21 17:12 enter 44:10 14:23 16:12 felony 13:13
19:3,18,25 entirely 27:2 31:7,22 32:12 58:13
23:4,19,25 entry 25:15 52:13 57:21 filed 38:6,18
8:20 10:6 25:17 26:5,14 especially 25:25 59:16 59:25
12:6 26:19,23 27:19 ESQ 1:15,17,20 expectations find 43:5 47:4,5
14:2 28:2,21 33:17 2:3,6,10,13 10:2 24:14 50:18
17:14,15 48:2 61:15 essentially 11:18 explain 21:24 fingerprint
20:4 Dreeben's 41:13 30:9 37:5 23:17 54:11 15:19 16:25
21:8,9,9,9 49:9 53:19 55:1 explanation 17:4 18:15
22:13,16 drink 31:17,19 established 48:7 35:5 19:7,13 21:2,4
27:9 33:14 55:15 estimates 59:6 expose 15:16 21:10 35:23
driver's 11:4 evaluate 54:20 exposed 37:18 47:19 48:3
31:19,25 driving 13:18 evaluated 16:1 extend 30:9 51:18 53:8
33:4 drop 39:13 event 39:17 54:8 extended 39:21 fingerprinting
35:25 drug 6:6,11 everybody 11:3 extends 31:7 35:7,20 36:2,6
40:22 36:10 evidence 9:19,23 extent 32:2,23 37:10,13,15
44:2,9 drugs 36:12,16 10:5,16 27:22 37:14 39:16,22,23,25
49:1,4 D.C 1:8,18,20 27:23,25 30:23 extraction 56:11 40:1,3,12
6:2 43:11 45:25 46:21 47:1,2
53:1,9 46:1 60:3 F 47:18,20,22
54:2,16 E evidentiary face 59:22 48:1,7,18
56:6,11 E 2:1 3:1,1 22:12 facilitating 49:17 50:4
57:10 easy 55:23 exactly 12:18 21:16 53:20 54:3
free 14:19 15:5 15:12 17:3 handcuffs 29:14 60:9
16:18,22 free-form 25:19 23:22 34:18 61:16,16 identification
18:12 26:3 48:22 50:18 happened 32:13 10:9 16:6
19:1 full 14:20 27:21 52:16 happening 17:15 18:1
31:13 God 38:23 61:18 19:5,21 20:20
21:12 function 21:6 going 7:13 11:24 happily 9:7 20:21 21:5,6,9
34:20 22:11,12 15:15 23:2 happy 27:2 21:10 40:24
36:5 functioning 28:9 36:13 hard 4:12 7:7 47:11,11,22
38:20 20:18 42:24,25 43:15 38:2 48:7,19 49:22
39:10 fundamentally 44:6,8 53:9,10 Hayes 8:3 49:22 50:5,6
48:13 30:6 53:11,12 60:14 hear 3:3 59:20 61:2
50:18,20 funneling 19:24 61:17,17 heard 33:17 identified 48:21
59:22 further 8:9 14:7 good 3:16 16:23 35:5,11,13 identifier 17:10
32:6 20:19 21:4 hearing 23:3 identifies 43:25
24:2 16:5,15 23:5 51:6 identifying 17:4
35:4 G 27:5 28:11,16 helped 38:8 identity 16:13
G 3:1 30:7,11 35:6 he'll 15:3 16:17 21:2
generally 10:15 55:25 56:15 52:4,5 53:12 35:12 43:24
16:7,16 33:24 50:15 hits 19:9 56:16 61:25
getting 5:7,8,15 grand 21:18 home 10:16 32:21
46:12 8:13 21:23 great 54:21 55:12 imprisonment
46:11 58:4 ground 46:15 hostile 39:6 inaccurate
16:14 40:9,15 44:9 guess 8:2 18:4 house 9:19 inadmissible
31:13 given 7:14 15:3 33:9 51:5 53:5 10:12,12 15:13 22:3
34:23 24:10 guy 21:18 15:16 61:25 incentive 27:23
44:13 giving 53:23 guys 61:6 hypothetical 28:15
55:19 gladly 39:15 guy's 34:7 52:4 45:5 incident 26:13
57:12,13 glass 55:15 26:18,22,24,25
go 5:21 8:25 H I 27:3,12,20
inherently 54:2 involuntary 22:20,23,24 9:22,25 10:8
innocent 28:18 involved 8:4 23:20 24:4,19 17:13 19:25
inside 10:18 involving 36:9 26:20 27:2,11 37:20 40:6
29:17 50:14 43:10 52:22 29:18,21 30:1 2:10 28:23
interest 19:20 item 56:11 31:1,14,20,21 1:15 2:3,13 3:7
9:9,10 41:20 42:7,7,9 38:9 58:23 35:1,9 36:1,8 keeping 42:4
16:11 42:22,22 46:16 JAY 1:6 36:18,21 37:7 Kennedy 26:12
23:7 46:18,23 59:14 John 41:19 37:19,20,20 26:14,17,20
31:4 interested 53:22 joined 6:2 38:16 39:4,5,8 27:2 29:8,11
33:6,18 56:10 JR 1:6 39:12 40:5,6 29:14,18,21
40:4 interests 24:15 judge 5:22 21:17 40:13 41:6,8 30:1,4,12 41:6
47:12 25:19 32:16 21:22 22:17 41:10,18,24 41:18,24 42:3
57:18 36:23 42:15 44:5 42:3,6,14 42:6 45:12,13
61:14 54:10,11,12,12 judge's 61:13 43:13,21,22 46:8 58:7,12
44:18 interview 31:17 44:2 45:5,12,13,13 key 26:7,10
47:25 55:14 12:18 48:5,22,23 kind 8:22 17:9
56:19 introduced justice 1:18 3:3 49:4,18 50:8 20:3 54:7
58:25 3:9,16,20,22 50:11,17,23 60:11
14:23 intrusion 32:17 4:22 5:1,4,10 52:7,8,11,15 King 1:6 3:5,15
32:23 32:19 34:7,18 5:15 6:16,19 53:4,22 54:1,5 50:16,19
36:3 34:20 35:19 6:20 7:5,16,24 54:6 55:13,16 King's 5:6 60:12
37:11 37:11,22,24 8:13 9:5,16,21 56:1,24 57:2,5 Knights 24:13
54:16,21 55:22 9:22,25 10:8 57:12,24 58:4 24:20 31:3,10
15:24 30:5 34:22 11:24 12:3,19 59:13 60:1,13 9:5 12:23
17:4,18 45:14,15 58:17 12:23 13:4,9 60:20,24 61:10 20:13,19 21:18
19:21,24 intrusive 38:11 13:11,12,16,17 62:2 22:17 23:13,14
24:7,17 invasion 32:6 13:21 14:1,4,5 justifications 23:20 25:17,21
33:19,22 inventoried 14:10,15,18 27:1 45:21 29:15,16 33:8
14:25 15:9,11,15,20 58:19 38:24 42:25
43:4 investigate 29:3 16:21 17:12,23 44:7 45:3 47:6
54:17,19 42:10 46:21 18:6,7,10,20 K 48:10,23 49:1
55:2,4 53:1 18:25 19:4,10 K 1:20 2:10 61:7
involuntarily 19:25 20:6,11 28:23 knowing 27:6,7
41:9,20 levels 37:1 mandatory million 50:21 58:23 59:13,17
46:18 liberties 29:21 46:15 mind 53:23 needs 25:3,4,7
liberty 9:15 manually 19:17 minimal 24:17 37:3,5 39:20
license 11:4 Martinez 26:9 minor 11:1 43:9 52:21
life 23:23 1:16 3:5,11 17:18 18:14 neither 43:24
48:3 lines 11:9 61:17 61:15 note 28:5 35:3
listing 35:15 Maryland's modified 5:24 46:4
39:7,14 living 53:6 match 5:12,17 months 17:7 37:10
25:7,10 loci 15:22 54:18 21:12 22:13 44:25 46:11 35:15 46:10
36:23 54:19 matched 6:8 59:6 numbers 10:7
42:22 long 7:16,19 matches 3:13 morning 3:4 10:21 59:23
48:2 18:13 material 16:13 35:11
57:16 longer 14:19 17:15 27:14 motion 23:5 O
47:24 57:24 16:8 36:3,6 mouth 34:8 obtained 24:17
55:15,15 31:9 37:21 10:1,25 15:12 murderers 60:3 occasion 48:9
lose 10:1 49:18 means 50:9 name 49:24 10:3 11:1
59:15,17 lot 3:17 35:9 mechanically 50:24 51:4,6 21:21 42:2
38:24 50:19 21:24 59:21 46:1 56:21,25
57:21 low-level 6:12 mentioned National 59:7 offenses 6:18
44:4,5,5 M merit 30:13 52:24 officer 8:10
52:15 magistrate 44:6 method 20:9 need 24:5 25:22 45:24
making 16:17 2:6 14:12 40:2 52:16 47:24
44:16 25:11,13 31:16 1:16,19 2:4,8 37:23 37:16 45:14
percent 15:9 photos 38:23,23 precisely 20:13 57:22 58:8,14
35:22,23,24 physically 7:3 59:12 61:6 privileges 58:2
14:12 permit 12:4 picture 49:25 29:5 11:11 13:8,22
20:16 21:4,9 picture's 49:25 pretrial 40:23 22:4,7 24:11
25:5 12:20 24:7 play 17:22 prevent 45:24 probably 16:11
37:1 45:24 please 3:10 preventing 49:9 55:7
42:11 permitted 58:21 14:16 29:1 58:24 probation 30:15
46:23 permitting plus 51:4 previously probationary
55:17 perpetrator point 3:23 5:3 primarily 47:10 probationer
perpetrators 4:3 23:8,11 27:13 primary 36:24 procedure 5:21
46:4 35:2 36:15 population 15:3 prints 18:16 profile 5:17 10:6
47:3,3,8 48:8,9 26:13 30:20 47:8,12 48:21 profound 33:23
33:2 53:13 58:13,16 possession 33:25 58:24,25 program 17:16
personal 10:17 possibility 39:2 prisoners 61:25 40:20,22 41:5
8:3 13:9 54:17,19,22 47:18 48:6 9:15 10:1 53:2
person's 10:6,19 potentially 12:15 14:23 programmatic
11:6 12:11 pertinence 48:12 32:12,16,22 proposition 30:4
41:12 42:6 45:13 reason 6:22 7:6 release/custody return 46:11
51:20,24 53:5 15:15 22:8 17:21 21:16 returned 22:18
59:5 60:1 49:14 21:14 32:19 returns 18:12
quick 13:10 34:3,4,9 36:14 reliability 22:11 revoke 23:6
R 1:17 2:6 3:1 recall 30:14 repeat 15:8 10:25 11:8,17
10:9 21:12 rampant 23:23 record 29:16 representation 25:19 30:19
40:3,19 range 12:9 46:13 47:3,5,8 19:5 52:15,18 53:15
41:4,4 rape 6:8,13 8:16 47:13 required 16:14 61:18
46:20 16:20 22:5 reduced 12:14 reserve 14:8 rights 14:21
rapes 28:11,14 25:18 58:8,13 resolve 21:2 rise 24:10
52:22 35:17 60:3 58:16 respect 6:23 7:4 risk 22:19 23:24
60:6,25 rapid 5:13 17:14 reduces 14:22 7:11 15:6 Roberts 3:3 6:16
21:8,9,9 59:5 reflects 19:7 24:23 25:11 6:20 7:5,16
32:20 61:23 regard 30:7,13 51:13 60:21 15:20 22:20,24
40:24 rapidly 60:22 37:9 39:16,22 respects 29:22 24:19 28:20
52:24 rare 4:24 45:11,14 51:13 Respondent 30:19 31:14,21
rarely 15:7 relate 10:17 1:21 2:11 3:15 32:7,9 33:1,8
22:19 30:10 related 10:2,6 28:5,24 44:4,15,21
25:23 rationales 46:3 42:5 46:1 Respondent's 55:13 59:1
44:4 reaches 39:18 relates 27:15 25:1 59:12,21 60:13 62:2
57:10,16 really 3:16 relatively 6:11 result 44:2 20:9
13:10 33:23 34:15 release 21:20 results 4:16 5:7 20:15
18:7 47:21,22 49:16 23:15 42:25 5:8 rules 44:13
31:24 50:17,24 51:4 43:7 45:7 retain 15:25 rummaging
33:2,6,10 51:6,10,17,20 46:10 61:14 16:12 10:16
37:14 53:8,14,14 released 6:7 retaining 14:20 run 19:6 23:23
41:18 60:19 61:22 42:18 retains 33:18
27:14,17,20,21 Shamblin 6:4 situated 24:23 54:1
7:9 8:20 34:8,23 35:2 1:20 2:10 15:1 22:25 13:6 25:3,4,6
15:18,25 36:14 37:13,15 28:22,23,25 43:6,14 36:22 37:3,5
22:13 39:25 44:19 29:10,13,16,20 situations 13:4 39:20 40:2,17
35:25 45:18,23 46:1 29:25 30:3,16 23:15 41:3 43:9
44:10 46:6 47:15 30:25 31:20,23 Skinner 32:4 52:21 53:2
58:5 49:11 52:17 32:8,15 33:5 36:21 55:5 58:23
51:16 56:7,13 58:22 34:13,21,25 Smith 49:24 speed 19:12
12:16 25:15 29:2 37:9 38:15 software 20:15 spot 22:16
24:13,19 searches 3:18 39:4,15 40:6 Solicitor 1:17 stake 32:16
31:3 12:20 29:5 40:16 41:10,23 solution 18:18 35:16
39:21 36:9 45:19,24 42:5,9 43:8,21 21:15 stand 37:25
25:17 searching 10:12 47:20 48:17 19:23 20:18,19 start 12:2
40:8 44:9 11:25 12:1 49:3 50:7,9,14 21:13 28:17 started 10:11
49:21 45:20 50:21,25 51:12 37:2 42:16 25:16,17 56:16
secondary 21:12 52:6,11,18 60:4,10,10 State 4:8 5:20
23:1 see 10:12 11:9 54:4 55:16 60:12 12:4,8,10,25
42:21 49:20 50:2 56:5 57:1,4,7 solving 25:9 13:1 15:17
53:8 53:12 57:17 58:3,10 41:11 51:23 19:20 29:7
4:1 9:5 seizing 10:5 shirt 56:2 somebody 23:9 35:5,14 37:1,4
seizures 3:18 shoe 39:13 48:13,25 43:24 57:20,25
send 5:11 short 26:3 somebody's 59:13
60:24 sense 22:21 27:3 show 59:22 34:19 States 1:1,12,19
48:19 side 24:24 25:1 someone's 4:23 2:7 6:2 14:13
47:21 58:1 simply 12:6 33:9 12:23 13:4 4:7 12:4 22:1
12:5 serves 22:10 41:2,14 46:20 23:17,20 24:4 36:25 57:9
8:10 supervision 31:2 32:6 44:3,24 thought 4:4
31:5 40:23 T testing 40:22 34:12 46:25
22:19 supply 22:4 tag 53:13 56:17,22 three 36:2 38:12
supporting 1:19 take 7:8,17,19 tests 7:8 39:10,13,16
53:5 33:14 34:18 62:2 ties 21:21
Supreme 1:1,12 44:23 45:17 theory 6:21 14:8 15:8
30:21 43:15 48:1 9:10 13:24 41:17 45:2,4 58:1,9,14
50:7 51:1 52:6 15:1 17:18 49:2 61:7 60:22 61:16
57:19 surprising 17:24 22:1,14 23:9 13:19 15:17 today 9:8 18:9
41:13 suspected 46:14 31:1 36:10,16 38:25 39:3 60:14,18
suspects 59:18 40:4 47:9 41:15 told 5:18
44:25 takes 43:3,15 11:5,16 16:9 tool 8:21
8:18,19,22 talk 38:17 18:18 19:18 touchstone 43:8
42:13 44:19 23:9 24:3 25:2 26:16 7:13,21 13:18
25:4 29:5 46:8 60:11 30:12,12 31:23 trash 56:2,3
15:16 swab 13:5 20:1 technology 33:22 34:11,14 tremendous
20:6 22:1 16:25 17:1,1,8 34:17,21 35:12 27:23 28:15,16
swabbing 10:18 52:1 37:21 39:1,18 trial 6:15 46:11
37:15 switching 53:8 19:3 39:5,9 43:4,23 44:17 triggers 32:18
system 5:16 52:8,8 60:14 45:7 47:20 true 4:17 11:19
13:4 19:1,14 20:7 tend 15:8 18:15 50:18 51:12,25 trust 55:1
20:14,15 23:10 terms 9:4 12:7 53:17,21 54:11 try 38:23
24:2 urine 32:5 36:1044:23 51:3 59:2,3,5 60:19 22:25 61:19
37:7 36:10 54:9 55:24 61:9 11:10 1:13 3:2
39:10,12 use 4:9 5:1,4 wanted 59:11,25 Wolfish 26:8 12-207 1:4 3:4
45:17 8:14 16:15,17warrant 11:10 word 39:17 12:11 62:4
utility 21:11 25:5 29:4 work 54:7 18 59:6
working 3:24
21:8 26:8 28:4 30:9 wasn't 4:4 19:16 21:24 38:10 60:15,15 61:4
45:8 46:5 55:8 56:9 water 31:18,19 51:18 61:22
53:6 validly 4:10 33:14 55:15 world 11:16 20 59:8
56:22 15:23 24:25 59:7 61:22 2013 1:9
victims 28:18 44:5 48:6,12 38:13 39:10 24 59:6
15:21 view 3:24 12:15 61:8 34:2 52:24 15:22 59:23
20:1 15:17 27:3 ways 38:10 60:12 28 2:11
49:8 37:13 39:24 weeks 23:3 write 39:11
56:23 59:24 well-recognized wrong 17:11,12 3 2:4 59:2
violence 13:14 4
13:4,6,17
14:13 55:8 violent 3:12 6:17 x 1:2,7 48:24 42 3:14
26:5,6
7:1 42:19 49:1 49 6:2
29:25
visited 23:23 whatsoever 24:6 Y
volumes 18:8 Winfree 1:15
38:7 40:9 40:14,21 52:3
50s 19:15
voluntary 33:13 3:22 4:6,17,21
52:3 50,000 19:9
57:3,6 59 2:14
6:19,25 7:10
42:16 wait 27:25 9:16,21,24 61:23
8:16 22:5
51:8,9 waiting 39:13 10:4,14 11:5 1 44:25
15:9
50:21
3:13
18:5
17:16,18
43:3,3
