IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
GENOVEVO SALINAS, :
Petitioner : No. 12-246
v. :
TEXAS :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, April 17, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:15 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ., Stanford, California; on behalf
of Petitioner.
ALAN K. CURRY, ESQ., Assistant District Attorney,
Houston, Texas; on behalf of Respondent.
GINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ALAN K. CURRY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 29
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Respondent 48
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 58
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:15 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 12-246, Salinas v. Texas.
Mr. Fisher.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FISHER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The Fifth Amendment prohibits using a
person's silence during a noncustodial police interview
against him at trial, and nothing about the specific
facts of this case give this Court cause to refrain from
applying that rule here.
To the contrary, the State's closing
argument in this case urging the jury to find
Mr. Salinas guilty because, quote, "an innocent person
would have denied law enforcement's accusations,"
strikes at the core of everything the Griffin rule and,
indeed, the Fifth Amendment is designed to prohibit.
It evokes an inquisitorial system of
justice. It effectively shifts the burden of proof onto
the defendant, and it demeans individual dignity by
conscripting the defendant as a product of his own
demise.
Now, the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals
resisted this logic and held the Fifth Amendment didn't
apply because there was supposedly no compulsion in this
case in the sense that there was no physical or
psychological coercion of the kind that's inherent in
custody.
But the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals
simply misunderstood the nature of a Griffin claim and
the nature of the compulsion. The compulsion that
Mr. Salinas faced was when the police asked him the
question about ballistics evidence, there was nothing he
could do to avoid supplying the State with incriminating
evidence that it could use against him.
If he answered the question -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why isn't it -- why isn't
it like the -- is it Berghuis case? There was a case of
someone who was given Miranda warnings, and, even so,
the Court said he was silent. He didn't invoke the
Fifth Amendment; therefore, his silence can be commented
on.
MR. FISHER: No, that's not the holding of
the Berghuis case, with all due respect. The Berghuis
case was about whether his subsequent statements could
be used against him. This Court didn't hold that his
silence that preceded those statements could be used
against him, and, indeed, that would be contrary to
Miranda itself in footnote 37, where the Court said, if
somebody stands mute in a custodial setting in the face
of law enforcement accusations, they may not be -
JUSTICE BREYER: Then what's the law? What
is -- I mean, Joe Smith leaves a -- a blank in part of
his tax return. The IRS gets it. Later, it turns out
to be relevant, and the prosecutor wants to say, hey, he
left this blank. Okay?
Now, Griffin doesn't apply, right.
MR. FISHER: If the -
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, isn't it -- you're
not going to say that any -- any time you refuse to tell
the government anything and, later on, it turns out to
be relevant to a criminal prosecution, that that's taken
as an invocation of the Fifth Amendment. I mean, do you
want to go that far?
MR. FISHER: No, I don't need to.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Then you need a
line.
MR. FISHER: This case is -
JUSTICE BREYER: Then what is -- then you
need a line. So where is -- there's the tax case; then
we have a case they're selling tickets to the
policeman's ball, and somebody comes to the door, and
the policeman says, hey, I haven't seen you around
before, and he doesn't answer. Okay? Now, that's
probably not an invocation.
And then we have the clear line, which, in
custody, and, now, you want to extend that line. And so
what I want to know if we -- if I follow you and extend
it, what line do I draw?
MR. FISHER: Well, it's sufficient to decide
this case to say that a noncustodial police interview
during the investigation of a crime, where they're
interviewing somebody about -
JUSTICE BREYER: So then -
MR. FISHER: -- who is -- who is, as the
State concedes, a suspect in a crime. Now, it may well
be that Griffin extends a little bit further, and,
remember, the Solicitor General at least agrees that
Griffin applies in a noncustodial setting.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but it's -- it's
well settled that, when you're -- wherein you're
examining the witness and he takes -- and he suddenly
says, I don't want any more questions, that
that's -- he's waived if you're in court, if you're
examining a witness on the stand.
So, against that background, suppose, in
this case, the facts were just about the same, and he
said what -- the police said, what would you do if we
matched the shotgun shells? And he said -- he said,
"Well" -- and then he starts to cry. He said one word,
"Well," and he started to cry. Admissible?
MR. FISHER: I think that would be
admissible, but it would be forbidden for the -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because he said, "Well"?
MR. FISHER: Yes. That word would be
admissible if the State had -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but could the
police officer also testify that and then he started to
cry?
MR. FISHER: Perhaps. But the State -- what
the State would not be able to do would be to argue that
his silence and refusal to answer the question
demonstrated his guilt.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or the prosecution could
say, Well, he said, well, and started to cry, and he
never told us anything else. That -- that final
sentence that I used is impermissible?
MR. FISHER: I think that may well cross the
line. You have the exact issue that arises already in
custodial settings, where, under Doyle and footnote 37
of Miranda, you've held that silence can't be used
against a criminal defendant.
So, Justice Kennedy, you're right, that
questions will arise in two ways: One is whether words
that the defendant uses are tantamount to refusing to
answer the question, and then there is a second question
about physical demeanor evidence.
The law is already sorted out on this in the
lower courts, and I think it's a very workable test.
The Solicitor General agrees with what it is, and the
reason why this Court hasn't seen a case or -- itself,
seen a case like that is because, once the rule is
established that the prosecution can't use silence
against the defendant, the temptation drops away to try
to introduce that evidence for some, supposedly,
different purpose.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Fisher, but then -
do -- do I understand correctly that you're saying
demeanor is different, so, although it was impermissible
to comment on silence, it was okay to say he looked
down, he seemed to be sweating, he was very nervous, he
was shuffling his feet.
MR. FISHER: Insofar as demeanor evidence
that the State offers has communicative values and the
State argues that it has communicative value,
independent of, simply, what the defendant looked like
when he remains silent, then it -- then it may well be
able to introduce that evidence.
Now, as I said, as I was just finishing up
telling Justice Kennedy, you're not going to have hard
cases in this respect because, once the temptation -
once it's clear that silence can't be used, then the
prosecution, I think, has little motivation to try to
walk that line.
And, indeed, I think it would be appropriate
in a case, if the prosecution said, look, the fact that
the defendant started crying, we think, is relevant for
some reason independent of what he -- of failing to
answer the question. The jury could be instructed, as
they are in Griffin -- Griffin settings already, that
you aren't to consider the defendant's refusal to answer
the question against him, but -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Fisher, I -- I have
a number of problems. The first is your rule would be
seen to be giving noncustodial defendants more rights
than those defendants in custody because you're arguing
that -- I think -- that a greater degree of expression,
other than silence, would be needed to show the
invocation of the privilege against self-incrimination.
MR. FISHER: No.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or are you trying to
equate the rights that a defendant has to custodial and
noncustodial, with respect to invocation?
MR. FISHER: No. And I -- and this is where
Justice Ginsburg's question came from, so I think it's
very important for me to be clear on this.
A person in a noncustodial setting still has
fewer rights than a person in a custodial setting. What
the Court held in Berghuis is that, if the defendant
wants to exercise his prophylactic right under Miranda
to cut off police questioning -- those are the words
this Court used -- that has to be expressly invoked in
some manner during the interrogation.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The problem -- I have an
easier problem understanding this argument with
respect -- and I'm going to ask your adversaries -- with
respect to the situation in which someone is approached
by the police and said, come in and talk to us. I have
a hard time understanding how the refusal to come talk
to them could be held against them. There, I understand
it.
But, here, your defendant went in and
talked. So, once he chose to do that, why does he get
more rights than Berghuis did, who remained silent for
2-and-a-half hours? The Court wasn't willing to find
that that was an invocation of the privilege against
self-incrimination. Why would it find the refusal to
ask one -- answer one question indicative of the
privilege against silence -- or the privilege for
silence?
MR. FISHER: Let me -- if I may, let me
focus on the Berghuis question.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know -
MR. FISHER: And then turn to the selective
silence point. The reason why he doesn't have --
Mr. Salinas doesn't have the right that Mr. Berghuis had
to cut off questioning. That's the right that has to be
expressly invoked, and it, indeed, can only be
effectuated in this setting.
There was no issue in Berghuis, I don't
think, that his silence could be used against him. The
State never argued in the Berghuis case that, because he
failed to answer for 2 hours, that shows he's guilty.
What the State argued in Berghuis was the fact that he
later confessed is what shows that he is guilty.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is -- I don't want -- are
you saying that, before the Miranda warning is required,
you cannot invoke the Fifth Amendment?
MR. FISHER: No. You can.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean -- that's my -
that's how I understood that.
MR. FISHER: You can. There's two
different rights -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I know you're not arguing
that, but that's why I'm -
MR. FISHER: Let me separate two rights.
One is the prophylactic right under Miranda to have
police cease asking you questions. That's one right,
and that right has to be expressly invoked in some
manner during the interrogation, after you've been
warned, in order to effectuate it.
There is a separate right, which is the
genuine Fifth Amendment right to remain silent. And
this Court said, in Miranda itself and it's never
questioned since, that that right doesn't have to be
expressly invoked. So the question is -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but it can be
invoked, and that might make a big difference. In
your -- in your brief, you acknowledge that most
citizens know they have a Fifth Amendment right.
MR. FISHER: Right. So, I think, Justice
Kennedy -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And so if there's -- if
questions are somehow troublesome, you say, I'm invoking
my Fifth Amendment right; go away, even if you're not in
custody, even if Miranda doesn't apply.
MR. FISHER: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And your client didn't do
that here.
MR. FISHER: He didn't. And so the
question -- I think, unless the Court's prepared to hold
that even an expressed invocation could be used against
him, then it reduces the question you framed, Justice
Kennedy. And so ask yourself whether there's any good
reason to require an express invocation in that setting.
Mr. Salinas, remember, did expressly invoke
his right to -- Fifth Amendment right to remain silent,
at trial, in a timely manner, asking for the evidence to
be excluded. So the question is whether there's a
reason to ask him to do it sooner. And our argument is
it's unnecessary, unfair, and a rule like that would be
unadministrable. So let me walk through those, if I
can.
It's unnecessary because all the cases the
Solicitor General cites for an express invocation
principle involve a scenario where the government has no
good reason to know that it's seeking incriminatory
information.
And, Justice Breyer, this is the limiting
principle that you were searching for in the tax cases
and the like. If the government doesn't know or have
good reason to know that the defendant who is silent is
likely to be exercising his right, then the government
needs to be put on notice because the government may -
may well challenge, may well go seek a court order. It
may well decide to grant immunity. It may do a number
of things.
But, here, the government would do
absolutely nothing different. Police would have done
absolutely nothing different. Indeed, look at the
record in this case. What the Solicitor General says is
that Mr. Salinas should have said, "I refuse to answer
that question," and, if he had said that, everything
would be different.
But look at what the State argued at trial
and what the officer testified. The officer testified,
when we asked him that question, he wouldn't answer.
The prosecution argued to the jury, he refused to answer
that question. So there is no ambiguity in the setting,
whether he was remaining silent.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, yes, there's no doubt
he was remaining silent, but the issue is whether he was
trying to raise his Fifth Amendment right.
Now, suppose your rule were, whatever the
situation, where either the individual expressly raises
his right or, at the least, it's a fair implication from
the circumstance that he was trying to assert his right,
would that be a sensible rule?
And, if so, how would your case stack up?
MR. FISHER: Yes. I think, as long as the
latter part of that test, Justice Breyer -- can be
satisfied by exercising the right, that is remaining
silent -
JUSTICE BREYER: It depends on the
circumstance.
MR. FISHER: -- in a setting in which -- in
a setting in which the government has every good reason
to know that the person is most likely to be relying on
the Fifth Amendment. And, here, where they are
investigating a murder and bringing in somebody as a
suspect and asking him, basically, did you commit the
crime, I think it's a fair assumption -- at least absent
any clarification by the police -- remember, when he was
silent, the police would have had every right to say,
Mr. Salinas, why aren't you answering the question?
And so the police could clarify. But,
absent any clarification from either the police or the
suspect, the more likely than not scenario -- and that's
the test the Solicitor General agrees should be used -
the more likely than not conclusion there is that he is
exercising the right. Now -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How would you deal with
another common situation where a defendant meets up with
the police, gives a story, and then, later, changes the
story. And the question is asked at trial, you never
volunteered that story to the -- to the police when they
questioned you.
Would that be silence, to you? Would that
be an invocation of his right not to incriminate
himself? Or would you -- would the prosecutor be barred
from arguing to the jury, as often is done, he chose to
say this, but not that, so this is a made-up story.
MR. FISHER: No, Justice Sotomayor, for two
reasons: One is, if I understood your hypothetical, it
sounded like the defendant may have been on the stand,
and that would be an impeachment scenario that's
entirely different. But even -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, sometimes, they
come back and later do a different confession.
MR. FISHER: Right. So but -- but even if
that were the case, then that would be basically using
his statement against him. And so a material omission
from a statement is not the same as silence. Here,
Mr. Salinas was silent.
Now, it's also not just that there's no good
reason to require some sort of magic words to be spoken
by the suspect, but it's unfair. Remember, the States
tell you, in their amicus brief, that, if you affirm in
this case and adopt the rule they're asking you for,
police officers are going to tell people in its custody,
which would be nothing more than an accurate statement
of the law, sir, if you are silent in response to any of
our questions, the prosecution is going to argue that
that -- that shows that you're guilty.
They're also going to have every good reason
to bring people in. I think this goes a little bit to
Justice Kennedy's question and -- and perhaps just yours
as well, the fact that Mr. Salinas did agree to commence
this interview. Remember, he agreed -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, he's not in
custody. So let's say he's answering the questions.
All of a sudden, he gets a particular question, and he
says, you know, it's getting late, I think I'm done, and
going to go home. Is that an invocation of the Fifth
Amendment right?
MR. FISHER: I think you'd have to ask that
to the Solicitor General. I don't -- I'm not the one
requiring an invocation. And that is part of the
administrability problem that the rule raises. I have
no idea of all the permutations, one of which you've
raised -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, is that
something -
MR. FISHER: -- but you can imagine many
more.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that something
that could be used against him at trial?
MR. FISHER: It can be introduced. It's
hard to understand how that is probative, the fact that
he said, I have to leave now, it's time to go.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's probative
if that he says that -- he's answering all the
questions, they're fine. All of a sudden, they say,
well, is your shotgun going to match the shell?
MR. FISHER: Yeah.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Then he goes, gosh,
it's late, I'm going to go home. That seems as -
(Laughter.)
MR. FISHER: Well -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That seems as
probative as the silence.
MR. FISHER: Well -- and so -- what the
State cannot do is what it did in this case and sort of
transform that into he refused to answer, and,
therefore, it shows he's guilty.
And, if I could go back to the part of the
unfairness and the difficulty here, it's not -- it's
just that -- yes, Mr. Salinas did come to the police
station, but remember why he came to the police station,
because they said, we want to bring you in to clear you
as a suspect, to get elimination prints.
So he was effectively told to come in, so
that we can clear you as a suspect, asked perfectly
innocuous questions at the beginning of the interview,
and then everything shifted on a dime to this one
"gotcha" question.
And I think it's perfectly reasonable and
customary in out-of-court settings, where the defendant
isn't on the stand and so telling some story, now,
trying to backtrack it, but out of court, to be able to
selectively exercise your right to silence, when you
feel, now, law enforcement is turning against me.
And, remember -- this is the other part
about, Justice Kennedy, your question. Of course,
people know they have a right to remain silent, so why
not -- why not ask them to invoke it?
Remember, people in this setting generally
don't have lawyers. They don't have a right to lawyers.
What does the layperson know? The layperson knows, I
have a right to remain silent. That's what the
layperson knows. The layperson doesn't know I have to
say some sort of magic words.
And the police, believe me, aren't going to
tell him that he does, in order to -
JUSTICE ALITO: Would you draw a distinction
between Mr. Salinas's situation and someone who's
questioned in the home -- in the person's home or on the
street?
MR. FISHER: No, I don't think there is a
relevant distinction there, Justice Alito, as long as an
investigatory interview -- and this Court has said, time
and again, whether it's Berkemer in a traffic stop or -
or Royer, that the police can try to initiate consensual
encounters. And the Court has said, time and again,
that people don't have to participate in them, and they
can cut them off at any time.
And it would be odd -
JUSTICE ALITO: And what if -- what if the
person -- what if the person was totally unknown to the
police, but called up the police and said they want -
and wants to talk to them for some purpose. You
wouldn't draw a distinction between that situation?
MR. FISHER: In -- well, if he wants to talk
to them -
JUSTICE ALITO: He wants to talk to them
and -
MR. FISHER: -- I'm not sure he has the
right to remain silent, no.
JUSTICE ALITO: He wants to talk to them,
and then, in the course of this conversation, the same
thing happens that happened here.
MR. FISHER: I think that might, depending
on the precision of the hypothetical, be a little bit of
a difficult -- different case. But, if the person said,
I want to talk to you about criminal activity, started
giving statements about a -- about a past crime, so it
was an investigatory interview, I think it may well
apply.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're -- you're giving us
Miranda, not Miranda, custody, not custody, gray area.
That -- that's what you're arguing. You want a gray
area opinion to be written?
MR. FISHER: No, I don't want a gray area
opinion. Remember, Justice Kennedy, at least the
Solicitor General -- and I'll let the State speak for
itself -- but the Solicitor General agrees that Griffin
rule applies in a noncustodial setting.
I -- I totally understand there's a bright
line between custody and noncustody, and so a custodial
suspect is in a different situation than a noncustodial
suspect.
But all I'm saying is, again, in agreement
with the Solicitor General, whereas all we disagree on
is whether the magic words need to be spoken, that a
person who is at least in a police investigatory
setting, and so the police would reasonably expect that
a failure to speak or answer your question was relying
on a Fifth Amendment -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I'm assuming, now
that I'm thinking about your argument, you would argue
that, even in a custodial setting, a prosecutor couldn't
say, I asked him, did he shoot his wife, and the
prosecutor can't argue that, because he refused to
answer, that makes him guilty.
MR. FISHER: That's precisely what the Court
said already in Footnote 37 in Miranda, what the lower
courts have depended on for a generation now, and I
don't think my opponents are even arguing to the
contrary.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, in fact, at most
trials, district court judges tell juries the evidence
is not the unanswered question. It's the question plus
the answer.
MR. FISHER: Right. Right. Fair enough. I
think that's perfectly well-established law. And so the
reason is, is there any reason to distinguish for
purposes of the Griffin rule -- I understand there's
reasons to distinguish in the -- in the settings that
Berghuis raises, but, for purposes of the Griffin rule,
is there any reason to distinguish between a custodial
and a noncustodial setting?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Well, but, yes. The
answer is going to be yes because we're going to hear it
in one minute because, as you say, it follows a fortiori
for Berghuis, you know, it's -- if you're going to have
to make an explicit statement to invoke your Fifth
Amendment right, when you're not in an inherently
coercive setting, I mean, that's going to be the
argument.
MR. FISHER: No, but -- but -
JUSTICE BREYER: You're not in an inherently
coercive setting, as you are in the Miranda situation,
you're not at trial, and, outside those two situations,
you have to say explicitly, I'm invoking the Fifth
Amendment -
MR. FISHER: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- or tap on the
Constitution or something in order to indicate -
MR. FISHER: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- that's what's at issue
and that's what -
MR. FISHER: Justice Breyer, this is
crucial.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. FISHER: If Mr. Salinas had been in a -
if everything about the case was identical, but he'd
been in custody, there would be no argument that his
silence could be used against him.
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. And that's saying
because, there, we have a line. It's called the
in-custody line. Once you get outside of custody -
MR. FISHER: But it's not because of the
physical or inherent pressures of custody because what
the Court has said, time and again, is that, after
somebody receives their Miranda warnings, they have a
free and deliberate choice whether to talk. And so -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I don't want to make
the government's argument for them. They'll make it
very well.
MR. FISHER: Well, no, but I do want -- I do
want to make sure that the Court understands the
critical difference between the express invocation
requirement that this Court established in Berghuis and
what I'm asking for today.
And the express invocation requirement in
Berghuis is the -- is -- is to administer the Miranda
prophylactic rule, that the police have to stop asking
somebody questions when they invoke their rights, the
rights they've just been advised of, remember.
It didn't hold in Berghuis and it -- and
it's never held that, if somebody is Mirandized -- and
let's say Mr. Berghuis was Mirandized and just remained
silent for two hours, and then the police said to
themselves, oh, this guy is never going to talk, we end
the interview, there would have been no argument the
State could have made in that case, that his silence
could be used against him.
And so I understand that -- that -- you
know, I'm -- that custody is different, but, in terms of
the express invocation requirement, there's no express
invocation requirement in custody, and there's no reason
for it here.
JUSTICE BREYER: So I think the argument
will be, I think -- it is, at least in my mind, that if,
after sitting there for 45 minutes -- or maybe it was an
hour and 45 minutes -- without saying anything, I'm -
I'm maybe taking a dissenting position, but, if -- when
he answers -- doesn't answer over that long period of
time, but doesn't say, I want to remain silent, if that
long period of behavior is insufficient without the
express statement to show that he wanted to remain
silent, so, outside custodial setting, should it be
insufficient to simply remain silent to show that -- you
see, it's argument by analogy, I think -
MR. FISHER: I understand, but his silence
wasn't able to be used against him in Berghuis; his
state -- his later statements were. And so, yes, you
could have a scenario -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Isn't the -- isn't the
point, Mr. Fisher -
MR. FISHER: Pardon?
JUSTICE KAGAN: The question is: What is it
insufficient for? In Berghuis, it was insufficient for
the purpose of cutting off police questions.
MR. FISHER: Exactly.
JUSTICE KAGAN: That's not the case here.
The question here is whether it's sufficient or
insufficient for the purpose of allowing his -- his
silence to be used against him at trial.
MR. FISHER: Precisely.
JUSTICE KAGAN: That's an entirely different
question, isn't it?
MR. FISHER: That's exactly my point. And
remember, again, the layperson in this setting who
knows -- if there's one thing the layperson knows and
most every American knows, is that they have a right to
remain silent. So somebody nervous in this setting,
without a lawyer, the one sanctuary they have is simply
not to talk.
If you issue an opinion that says, as the
Solicitor General would like, you have to pronounce some
sort of magic words, it's terribly unfair and terribly
misleading and, again, for no good reason. And it
raises all kinds of administrability problems. The
Court is going to have an absolute, I think, flood of
cases of all the permutations of somebody under
different kind of police warnings or the other that may
be given ahead of time and different kind of verbal
formulations.
Maybe he says, I'd like to talk about
something else. Maybe he says, as the Chief Justice
explained, I'm going to leave now. Maybe he actually
just doesn't show up for the interview. There is
innumerable permutations. The easy rule -
JUSTICE ALITO: Unless you're going to argue
that -- that silence cannot be -- can never be commented
on in any noncustodial situation -- and I didn't think
you were willing to go that far when I was questioning
you previously -- you're going to have the same kind of
line-drawing questions, aren't you?
MR. FISHER: No.
JUSTICE ALITO: Where was it held? What was
the nature? Who initiated it? Was the person really
under suspicion? What was the purpose of the -- of the
questioning?
MR. FISHER: So as to where -- as to where
you draw the line, if I understand your question, as to
where an express invocation before trial would be
required, you are going to have to draw a line. I think
it's very easy to draw the line and just say a police
investigatory interview because that's the setting where
the police have every reason to believe that silence is
an exercise of the right.
All the other settings, whether they be tax
settings, whether they be immigration cases, all the
totally disparate settings the Solicitor General cites
cases involving, it's perfectly reasonable to require an
advance invocation there.
But, remember, the Court said in Chavez that
the Fifth Amendment is a trial right, and so invoking it
at trial is perfectly timely in the ordinary setting.
The only question is whether you should have some sort
of special requirement for special reason. We think
there is no good reason, and it would be very unfair.
I'd like to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess, as I understand
your rule -- I'm sorry. I'll ask it on rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Curry.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALAN K. CURRY
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. CURRY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Absent an invocation, a defendant's failure
to answer a question during a noncustodial, voluntary
interview should not be protected by the Fifth
Amendment. It should be -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But why, counsel? I
mean, really, what you're saying is, merely because I
asked you the question and you choose not to answer, it
makes you guilty.
MR. CURRY: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It -- no problem. Here,
you're asking about the crime of investigation. But you
could have asked him, did you kill Joe Blow on another
street, and, if he had remained silent, you would be
arguing that proves he is guilty, I could introduce that
at trial.
And you would be arguing it would be
sufficient to convict him, that you merely asked the
question and he remained silent about it shows his
guilt.
MR. CURRY: Yeah, I don't know that that
would be sufficient to convict him. And that -- that
hypothetical might suggest that the probative value of
that particular failure to answer a question was less -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's a little scary to
me that an unanswered question is evidence of guilt.
MR. CURRY: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He is not arguing that
the physical response is not admissible. He is just
arguing that the mere asking of a question and a failure
to answer it, you can't argue, as a prosecutor, that
that shows someone is guilty.
MR. CURRY: I think one of the things we are
asking the Court to do, Justice Sotomayor, is to
recognize that silence, certainly, as occurred in this
case, doesn't always occur in a vacuum. And the
defendant's failure to answer this question, accompanied
by things that he did, along with or contemporaneously
with -- you know, the shuffling of the feet, the biting
of the bottom lip -- revealed a guilty conscience on his
part.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it would be up to the
jury, wouldn't it? The jury might well agree with
Justice Sotomayor, that it doesn't prove anything that
he answered a question, right?
MR. CURRY: Right. I mean -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The question is whether you
can ask the jury to consider that.
MR. CURRY: Correct. And I think that's --
I think that's the import of our argument. And we've
referenced this Court's language in Baxter, to that
extent, that a jury can give what weight they wish to
give it, but the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Your -- my hypothetical
that I posed earlier, if the police call you and say,
come in for questioning, and you ignore them, is that an
invocation of the right to silence or not?
MR. CURRY: I don't know that that's an
invocation, Your Honor, but I don't know -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why -- why could you
argue that that's -
MR. CURRY: Number one, I don't think a
prosecutor ever would argue that because that's
ambiguous and not probative, and I think -- not
probative for someone just to not come in when police
offer them a chance to come in.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They -- then they're
arguing what the legal theory of guilt is in that
situation.
MR. CURRY: Right. The legal theory of
guilt in that situation would be lessened than it is in
this case because there is no -- there is nothing to
suggest that that defendant was guilty, necessarily,
because he decided not to show up to the police.
But, here, in this situation, the
defendant's failure to answer the question, accompanied
by the other things that he did, did reveal a guilty
conscience on his part. And it was nothing to reflect
that he was trying -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So why is
it -- would it be admissible that someone decides -
someone comes in, and they say -- police say to him or
her, we are investigating this crime, help us. They
start asking questions, and it's clear from the first
question -- there is a waiver of Miranda, and, from the
first question, the first question is, did you kill this
person?
The guy remains silent. They ask a whole
bunch of other questions, and he remains silent. Had -
has he invoked his right?
MR. CURRY: I don't believe he has, Your
Honor. I mean, if he -- you said he was provided
Miranda rights, so maybe they feel he is in custody or
not, but -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So a prosecutor could go
into the jury and say, he waived his Miranda rights, and
he is guilty because he refused to answer our questions?
MR. CURRY: He is guilty if he revealed a
guilty conscience, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He wouldn't say that. He
would say one of the indications of his guilt is that he
refused to answer the question. No prosecutor would
argue that, that alone, would support a conviction,
right?
MR. CURRY: Correct, Your Honor. And that's
not what we're -- that's not what we are asking the
Court to do here. We're not asking the Court to say
that, every time silence occurs, that's necessarily
going to be probative, and every time silence occurs,
that's necessarily going to be something that we
utilize.
We're merely saying that, in this particular
situation, the defendant needs to tell something to the
police in order to reveal that he is relying on a
constitutional right and not merely having -
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry. Just to nail
that down because your first three words were "absent an
invocation."
MR. CURRY: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Are you -- are you, now,
adopting the Solicitor General's argument? Because your
brief goes further. So are you, now, saying that the
crucial thing is the invocation?
MR. CURRY: I believe that has been our
position, Your Honor. I believe -- we do have some
alternative argues, as well, based upon this Court's
jurisprudence. But I think the government and we both
agree that the defendant in this particular situation
would need to invoke.
And that is the basis upon which we proceed.
And we are not proceeding just upon Berghuis v.
Thompkins.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And so you would agree with
the government that, if he had invoked, that the Fifth
Amendment right would come into play?
MR. CURRY: We would not attempt to -- we
would not attempt to introduce anything, for example "I
plead the Fifth," "I don't want to talk any more,"
something like that, No, we would not be introducing
that. I do believe that would be a rule -- you know, a
violation of the rule -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the line you're
drawing, between his -- his just not answering and his
saying, I don't want to answer?
MR. CURRY: Correct, if I understand your
question.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The latter can't be
introduce to the jury, but the former can?
MR. CURRY: Correct. That's the rule -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would you -- why would
you draw that -- that line?
MR. CURRY: I think, Your Honor, I would not
want to -- I would not want to introduce a statement
that a defendant was relying on a constitutional right
by saying, "I don't want to talk any more," as opposed
to the mere silence, which might be probative, in
conjunction with other evidence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't the mere silence
suggest, "I don't want to talk anymore"?
MR. CURRY: It might, but it also might
suggest that he's having difficulty coming up with an
exculpatory response. It might suggest that he can't
think of a good answer. It might suggest that he is
worried about the question and he is thinking more about
how worried he is about the question than how he wants
to respond to it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Particularly since
he did want to talk some more, right?
MR. CURRY: Correct. He continued to
respond -- you know, several questions thereafter,
continuing to provide exculpatory responses.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But isn't the most
logical inference from the silence not that he isn't
quick enough to come up with an exculpatory answer, but
that it would incriminate him if he answered?
MR. CURRY: Yes, Your Honor. That may be -
that may be a permissible inference, but I do not
believe that that necessarily means that he was invoking
his -- his Fifth Amendment right because he did continue
to talk. He already knew what the police were
investigating.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he could -- he could
invoke the Fifth Amendment with respect to one set of
questions and not another, and what's disturbing me
about your position, if it's -- if you have -- someone
being interrogated, who is savvy, will say, "I plead the
Fifth." And somebody who is not that smart is just
silent. To make a difference between those two people
on whether comment can be made on the failure to respond
is troublesome.
MR. CURRY: Your Honor, I think that would
be consistent with this Court's jurisprudence to -- to
allow the use of evidence, if there was no invocation
involved. In Jenkins v. Anderson, Justice Stevens
recognized the importance of an invocation, even in -
even in that type of situation.
This Court -- it's not just Berghuis v.
Thompkins that we're relying upon, where the Court has
recognized the necessity of an invocation. Garner v.
United States says the same thing, that -- that an
invocation is necessary for Fifth Amendment rights.
And I know that we don't have a case that is
squarely on -- on four with this one. But all the
defendant would have to say is, I don't want to talk
anymore, or I don't want to answer that question, and
then we would be in a completely different posture at
this point.
But, here, the -- the defendant failed to
answer a question and did other things that revealed a
guilty conscience on his part. And that is precisely
the type of evidence that we believe that we can
introduce.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Curry, in a case
like Berghuis, which is in a custodial setting, if the
defendant there had not ever said anything, had gone
through the entire interview and, really, never said a
word, so that the police kept asking him questions, but
he never said anything, the prosecutors could then not
go in and say, look, for 3 hours, we asked him
questions, and he didn't talk.
That would be off limits. And the question
is, if that's off limits, why shouldn't this be off
limits as well? If there's no invocation necessary
there, for some of the reasons that Justice Ginsburg was
saying, why should there be an invocation requirement
here?
MR. CURRY: Well, number one, because the
hypotheticals are different. In -- in our particular
situation, the defendant did answer questions and only
did -- you know, fail to answer one particular question.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes. I -- I understand
that, in your case, there happens to be a kind of
selective answering sort of question, but let's say -
let's take that out of the picture, all right? And just
say -- you know, he just didn't want to answer
questions, all right? So then the question is, why
would that case be any different from the case that I
posited?
MR. CURRY: Okay. In -- in Berghuis v.
Thompkins, this Court looked at the ambiguous nature of
whether or not the invocation had occurred. If, in your
hypothetical, the defendant failed to answer any
questions whatsoever -
JUSTICE KAGAN: He -- he didn't invoke. He
just didn't answer.
MR. CURRY: But it could be a suggestion
where he was attempting to exercise the -- the right
because he never answered anything. But, in our
situation, the defendant can't be said to have been
doing that. He can't be said to have been exercising
the right because he failed to answer a question, but
answered several other questions.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So you're pinning
your argument really, on the fact that he did a lot of
answering.
MR. CURRY: That's one of the reasons, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE KAGAN: On this -- on this, you
know, you can't pick and choose kind of argument.
MR. CURRY: Well, we're saying that you
cannot infer an assertion of a Fifth Amendment right
based upon this. We cannot infer that he was
necessarily asserting his Fifth Amendment right, whether
to cut off questioning or stop talking altogether,
or -- you know -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So would it be fair to say
that your argument is, look, you can't just like keep
talking and talking and talking and -- and, at that
point, you have to invoke? If -- if you've been doing a
lot of talking and then decide you want to stay silent,
at that point, you have to invoke. But that's not to
say that you have to invoke in every noncustodial
encounter. Is that your argument?
MR. CURRY: No. I think you need to invoke
in every -- every noncustodial encounter if -- if you do
not want the things that you say to be utilized against
you. If you -- if you want to -- you know, if you want
to be prevented from that evidence being utilized, you
have to say, I don't want to talk anymore, or I plead
the Fifth, or whatever the words -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But I thought you said he
didn't have to do that, if he didn't answer any
questions, didn't you? Isn't that what you said?
JUSTICE KAGAN: You took the words out of my
mouth.
MR. CURRY: No, no. If he didn't answer any
questions, then -- then it would be drawn closer
to -- to Berghuis v. Thompkins, in which this -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but, in Berghuis, we
found no implication.
MR. CURRY: Correct. Correct. But if -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So -- so Justice Kagan's
question stands.
MR. CURRY: But -- but the defendant in
Berghuis did answer some questions, Your Honor, and
that's what makes it different from Berghuis. In -- in
that -- in that case, the defendant did ultimately -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, a few, as I recall.
MR. CURRY: Correct. He -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Curry, Berghuis is
different for a different reason. Berghuis is different
because the question in Berghuis is what do you have to
do to make the police go away. Here, the police were
not going away. There was no -- there's no question of
that. But the question is what do you have to do in
order to bar the prosecutor from introducing your
silence at trial.
So that's a really different question, isn't
it?
MR. CURRY: Well, it is a different
question, but, here, I think the police were,
quote-unquote, "going away." I mean, they -- they
finished their questioning at some point. And -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Exactly. That's why
Berghuis is irrelevant here because Berghuis said at a
certain point -- you know, you need to invoke in order
to stop questioning. But -- but that's not what's at
issue here.
MR. CURRY: But this Court's case law still
requires an invocation. And the rule we're asking this
Court to adopt would, essentially, settle the split that
largely exists in -
JUSTICE BREYER: What is that? That is what
I'm -- I'm uncertain about this. And they cite page
468, note 37, of Miranda.
All right. What is the law, in your opinion
now, in respect to -- and what case would support this?
A defendant comes in, he is warned and given his Miranda
rights. He says, fine, and then he proceeds to answer a
whole bunch of questions.
Then they ask question number 432. He says
nothing. You then go on to 433, 434, et cetera, and he
answers them all. Okay? At the trial, the lawyer -
the prosecutor wants to comment on the fact that, in the
face of that single question -- though answering many,
many more -- he remained silent.
Does Griffin say he can -- the prosecutor
can make that comment, yes or no? And I'd appreciate
the government answering this question, too, because
they're -- if they -- are they speaking here? Or are
you doing the whole argument?
MR. CURRY: No, the government is also
arguing as well, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's -- I'd like to
get the same answer.
MR. CURRY: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because I -- well, now,
they cite for the proposition, I think, that it -- that
the prosecutor is forbidden to make that comment, note
37 of Miranda. Okay. I just read it.
MR. CURRY: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: And I -- may be ambiguous
on the point. It says you have the right to maintain
immunity in the face of an accusation.
MR. CURRY: Right. I think the reliance of
on the footnote is -- is -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, fine. But what's your
opinion? I mean, what is the law in respect to that
single point? And at least to me, I'd -- I'd like to
know your opinion on that.
MR. CURRY: Your Honor, I do not believe
that this Court has extended Griffin to this particular
type of fact situation, and Griffin wouldn't apply to
that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any authority, or
is it just your opinion that we have to go on?
MR. CURRY: Well, I believe this Court would
have had the opportunity to extend Griffin, for example,
Doyle v. Ohio. Basically, the Court did not do that.
This Court had the -- the opportunity to extend Griffin
in Fletcher v. Weir and did not do that.
So I do not believe this Court has
necessarily -- you know, sought to always attempt to
extend Griffin in that situation. Now, we -- I see some
ambiguity in the standing mute phrase from footnote 37.
Does that mean not talking at all? Does that mean not
answering one particular question?
In your hypothetical, if it was as probative
as it was in our case -- you know, that might be
something the prosecution would want to use without
violating the Fifth Amendment right because there's no
clear indication that the defendant did, in fact, rely
upon his Fifth Amendment right.
Now, I don't want to -- you know, misread
footnote 37, but that's how we read footnote 37 because
in the absence of -- there's many, many cases cited
there, and it's not clear that it's attempted to apply
an -- an extension of Griffin in that situation.
The rule we're -- we're offering here would
not -- would not change the law with regard to how it
exists in much of the Federal Circuits. In much of the
Federal Circuits, these defendants where -- where the
courts have held that we cannot utilize this evidence,
those defendants have, in fact, done something to
invoke.
So I think the -- the rule that we're asking
the Court to adopt would allow for these -- that case
law to stand; i.e., if a defendant says, I don't want to
talk anymore, I plead the Fifth -- you know, we're not
asking this Court to issue a rule that says that we can
introduce that.
All we're asking this Court to -- to
introduce is consistent with this Court's case law that
would require an invocation -- or some invocation that
the Fifth Amendment right was being relied upon and not
just a difficulty with the question or I can't think up
an exculpatory answer for that particular question, so I
don't know what to say.
I mean, there, the defendant is not relying
upon a constitutional right. And I think we're asking
this Court to -- to look at whether an inference has to
be made that the Fifth Amendment right is being done, or
perhaps another inference can be -- can be provided.
And Baxter v. Palmigiano allows for acquiescence -- you
know, to -- to be something that we can utilize against
a defendant.
Here, the jury -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Where does the
compulsion line come in? Your adversary points out
that, under this scenario, the police can ask you
questions and say to you -- you know, if you stay quiet
in this question, I'm going to use it against you at
trial, that police will actually to that, that they'll
actually come in and tell defendants who are telling the
story -- you know, either answer or it'll be used
against you.
MR. CURRY: I could perceive then, Your
Honor, the -- the trial court upholding a claim by the
defendant that he was coerced at that point, that, at
that point, the officer -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why can't you say
that a call from a police officer to someone who says,
come in and talk, that that can't be used against them
at trial as -- you gave me a different answer. You said
it wasn't probative, but you didn't say Griffin would
protect that.
MR. CURRY: No, if -- no, if -- I don't know
that I would say Griffin is protecting it, but what I
would say is this Court's penalty jurisprudence would
say that, when a penalty flows directly from something
the defendant is -- you know, either saying or not
saying -- you know, that could be a problem.
So when an officer says -- you know, I'm
going to hold -- hold against you your failure to answer
a question -- you know, that can be something where the
court might utilize as -- as -- for some sort of
penalties flown.
Justice -- Justice Stevens said, in his
dissenting opinion, in McKune v. Lile, that there is an
appreciable difference between some sort of sanction -
official sanction being placed upon a -- you know, of
essentially disobeying of an order, as opposed to a
voluntary choice arising from -- from just a possible
adverse consequence.
And, here, I think, the fact situation that
confronts this Court in this case is just the risk of an
adverse consequence and not something that necessarily
is going to occur.
However, if an officer says, I'm necessarily
going to use this against you, the adverse consequence
may become more -- more tangible at that point. That
isn't the facts of this particular case.
I also want to disagree with Mr. Fisher with
regard to his suggestion that the police essentially
manipulated this. If you look on the Joint Appendix,
page 14, lines 9 and 10, the officer clearly says that
he wants Mr. Salinas to come down to the police station
and talk, as well as do elimination fingerprints.
The officer had already been questioned.
These people knew we were investigating a double murder.
These people knew that they were looking for a shotgun.
They now have a shotgun that they got from the
defendant. So this defendant was not -- you know, all
of a sudden, sprung on him the idea that they
were -- you know, looking for him as a possible suspect
at that point when they asked a ballistics question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Anders.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GINGER D. ANDERS,
FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MS. ANDERS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In Minnesota v. Murphy, this Court applied
the general rule that the Fifth Amendment privilege is
not self-executing and that a suspect must invoke it in
order to claim its protection to a noncustodial
interview in which the -- the probation officer doing
the questioning was aware that the questions that she
asked could be incriminating.
The Court there held that because the
suspect had not invoked his Fifth Amendment rights, his
statements could be used against him as evidence at
trial. A suspect's silence should similarly be
admissible against him when he fails to expressly invoke
the privilege. Requiring invocation -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That is such a radical
position, that silence is an admission of guilt. That's
really what the argument is. I certainly understand
that speaking can implicate you, and, if you choose to
speak, clearly, whatever you say can be used against
you, unless you're in custody and unless you've invoked
the right before.
But this is radically different. We are -
we are -- you're trying to say acts of commission and
omission are the same, but statements are different than
silence because, then, you're making the person who is
asking this question your -- your admission. You are
saying you're adopting their statement as true.
MS. ANDERS: Well, I think the Court has
repeatedly recognized that, when a citizen is
voluntarily interacting with the police and there -
there is no coercion because it's not a custodial
situation, we expect that person to be treated as fully
capable of deciding whether or not to assert his rights.
This is what the Court said in United States
v. Drayton in an analogous context, which is whether
someone has voluntarily consented to a search. The
person, even if he is not told that -- that he can
refuse to -- to consent, we still assume that he knew
that he could refuse to consent, and, therefore, it was
a voluntary choice.
And I think you can draw the same inference
here, that, when someone -- we -- I think we all agree
that most people know -- people know what their Fifth
Amendment rights are, and, therefore, they can assert
them when they don't face any coercive pressure.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Anders -
MS. ANDERS: And so when the person does not
do that -
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry. We don't require
invocation at trial, and we don't require invocation in
a custodial setting. And you might think, well,
custodial, that's very different because, after all,
custodial is inherently coercive, but that's the whole
point of Miranda warnings, is that, once we give Miranda
warnings, that coercion is dispelled and the custodial
setting, essentially, becomes like a noncustodial
setting.
So, if we don't require invocation, even
after Miranda warnings are given in a custodial setting,
why should we require invocation here?
MS. ANDERS: Well, I think the reason that
we don't require invocation in the Miranda setting, I
think, highlights the fundamental difference between
custodial interrogation and noncustodial interrogation.
So, in the custodial setting, the Court has said
that -- that the suspect faces inherent coercive
pressures to confess -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, but then -
MS. ANDERS: -- and, therefore -
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- you're given the
warnings, and then that's gone.
MS. ANDERS: Exactly. That's why we give
the warnings. And, in the warnings, we promise the
suspect that his silence will not be used against him.
And so this is what the Court said in Doyle v. Ohio,
that, because of that promise, the suspect does not have
to expressly invoked, and his silence can't be used
against him.
But, in the voluntary situation, we presume
that the suspect knows his rights, and, because he is
not facing any pressure, he can simply say, I don't want
to answer that question. And so when he doesn't say
that -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You've -- you've said in
your brief that there might be a whole other -- many
other reasons for remaining silent, and I -- I suggested
that the -- in -- in this kind of scenario, the most
likely reason that the suspect will clam up is that he
fears incrimination.
But what -- what obvious other reasons
unrelated to the Fifth Amendment, why a defendant might
remain silent? I mean, the Griffin rule is he doesn't
have to say, I plead the Fifth, because we assume that,
when he doesn't take the stand, he is doing so because
he doesn't want to incriminate himself.
MS. ANDERS: That's right. The -- the
Griffin rule says -- or it's premised on the idea that,
when you fail to testify at trial, you're inherently
exercising your Fifth Amendment right.
But I think, when you're looking at a -- a
noncustodial interrogation, the question whether the
person is trying to exercise his Fifth Amendment right,
I think the operative question is not whether he wants
to avoid inculpating himself, it's whether he wants to
refuse to answer as a matter of right.
And I think we know that because, if you
look at the interview as a whole, presumably, his
overarching motivation is not to inculpate himself.
That's why his statement -- his statements can be used
against him at trial because those statements we -
we've -- the Court held in Minnesota v. Murphy, those
statements are inconsistent with a desire to refuse to
answer as a matter of right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Are you -- are you
conceding the -- the point that they make? I -- that -
that even if in the custodial setting he waives his
Miranda right, he answers 500 questions, but doesn't
answer one of the 500, that the prosecutor cannot
comment on that fact that he didn't answer that one?
MS. ANDERS: I think that raises a
different -
JUSTICE BREYER: Does it? What do you
think? He says, no, you can't, and he quotes Miranda.
Okay? What do you think?
MS. ANDERS: Well, there is -- there is a
circuit split on that, and -- and I think the circuit
split shows that it raises a different analytical
question that the Court doesn't have to get into here.
The circuit split is that some courts say, as I
understand it, that, even after the person waives his
Miranda rights, Doyle still applies, and so you can't
use his silence against him.
And some of those other courts say, no, once
he has waived his Miranda rights, he is essentially in
the same situation as he would be, if he weren't in
custody -
JUSTICE BREYER: And do you have a view
on it?
MS. ANDERS: I -- I think we think that the
better view is that Doyle probably does not apply, but I
think there is a serious question there. And I think
the Court doesn't have to resolve it here because,
again, that highlights a distinction between custodial
and noncustodial interrogation, that, once the suspect
has been promised, that -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what is your answer
to Justice Kagan's earlier question to -- of the
hypothetical of the defendant that says nothing for 20
questions?
MS. ANDERS: Well, I -- I think the
standard -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then there's no -- and
there's no Miranda warning and no custody.
MS. ANDERS: Right. So like this case,
except 20 questions.
Well, I think the standard is whether the -
the suspect has done something that reasonably can be
construed as invocation. This is the standard that the
Court announced in United States v. Quinn a long time
ago, but it's also the same formulation that the Court
used in Davis and Berghuis.
JUSTICE KAGAN: What -- what does that mean?
Does he just -- how about if he just says, you know, I
don't really want to answer that question?
MS. ANDERS: I think, if he expresses the
desire not to answer the question, that is sufficient
because he is saying, I'm not going to answer that, and,
implicitly, he has a right not to do that. I think the
20 questions hypothetical that Justice Kennedy proposed,
probably that would not be sufficient by -- by analogy
to Thompkins, where the suspect sat silent for two
hours.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Okay. But -- but I don't
think you -- you were going to tell me this great deal
of conduct, what silence could mean other than, I fear
incrimination. What else is -
MS. ANDERS: Absolutely. I think -- I think
there are several types -- there are several mental
states that silence can reflect that are both probative
of guilt and not consistent with the desire to refuse to
answer the question as a matter of right. So, for
instance, the suspect could want to answer the question,
but have trouble coming up with an exculpatory answer.
He could strategically decide that he is
just going to sit silent for a bit, to see what else the
prosecution -- or, I'm sorry -- the police say, in order
to spin it out, see what they know. He could be
dismayed or shocked, momentarily, because the question
reveals that the police have more evidence than he
thought they did.
So I think, in all of those situations,
those -- those mental states are not consistent with the
desire to invoke the privilege, and that's why
Petitioner's rule is, essentially, a prophylactic rule
that would protect a great deal of conduct that has
nothing to do with the desire to exercise the Fifth
Amendment right.
I think -- you know, this case is a good
example of that, where you have a -- a suspect who
speaks for -- you know, several minutes -- you know,
half an hour, whatever, and he's answering questions in
an exculpatory manner. He's suddenly silent in response
to one question, and so I think the inference that could
be drawn there is that he was surprised by the question
and didn't know how to answer it in the most exculpatory
manner.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Ms. Anders, suppose -
you know, he thinks that the interview is going to be
one thing, and then it turns out that the interview was
something else. He realizes, it dawns on him, that the
police really do see him as a suspect. And he says to
himself, I better stop answering, right?
So he says, okay -- he's answered a bunch of
questions already, but -- but, now, he's -- you know, I
don't want to answer any more questions. Is that an
invocation?
MS. ANDERS: I think that would be
sufficient, yes, to say, I don't want to answer any more
questions. And I think -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Or, if he says, I don't want
to answer questions about a particular topic; is that an
invocation?
MS. ANDERS: I think that would be
sufficient to invoke with respect to questions on that
topic. And I think, as -- as in Thompkins, I think it's
important to have a clear rule here because invocation
does affect -
JUSTICE KAGAN: That doesn't sound like a
clear rule. I mean -- you know, as -- as between -- you
know, I don't want to answer those questions on a
particular topic, I don't want to answer that question,
or just like could we go on to a different question
or -- or I don't know. Why is that different?
MS. ANDERS: Well, I think it's -- it's an
objective standard, and it's the same formulation that
the Court has already adopted in Berghuis and in
Thompkins and in Davis. So, in the Miranda context, the
Court has already faced this problem, how do we know
when the defendant has invoked his rights and what
should the standard be?
And it has said that it is an objective
standard, it's what's reasonably perceived as an
invocation, and so -- you know, the lower courts are
very used to applying that. I think it's very
administrable because -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's not administrable
about telling the police you just can't argue to a jury
that merely not asking a question is guilt? What -
what lacks administrable?
MS. ANDERS: Well, I -- I think there are a
variety of circumstances in which, as I said before,
silence is probative of guilt. And so the question is
whether you want a broad, prophylactic rule that will
protect a great deal of conduct that -- that has nothing
to do with the exercise of the right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Fisher, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FISHER: Thank you. I'd like to make
three points.
First, Justice Breyer, your question about
the state of the law, with respect to question number
432, In our reply brief, at page 4, we cite cases that
are all Fifth Amendment cases, and Canterbury, also,
which is a Tenth Circuit case cited elsewhere in our
brief, uniformly holding that the Fifth Amendment
applies.
The Solicitor General, when they speak about
a circuit split with relation to Doyle, they're talking
about impeachment cases. Remember, Doyle and Jenkins,
which are the cases the State cited to you in response
to your question are impeachment cases that are entirely
different.
Second, if I -- we can look at the
transcript this afternoon, but I believe both the State
and the Solicitor General said to you, today, if
Mr. Salinas would have said, I don't want to answer that
question, then he would win, then Griffin would apply.
But, because it was somehow ambiguous, that it
shouldn't, that is ridiculous. If you look at the
transcript in this case, what did the officer testify
when he said -- he asked him the question, he said he
did not answer.
What did the prosecutor argue to the jury in
closing? Verbatim of what the State is telling you
today is all Mr. Salinas had to say. At closing, the
State said, the police officer testified that he
wouldn't answer that question. He didn't want to answer
that.
So the whole principle behind express
invocation jurisprudence is to put the State and the
police on fair notice that somebody is exercising the
right to remain silent. There was zero ambiguity in
this case that was going on.
So it explains why the rule that the State
and the Solicitor General have fallen back on in court
today is formalism of the absolute worst kind, and the
only thing that this formal requirement of saying some
sort of magic words -- and I agree with Justice Kagan, I
don't know what they are -- but whatever they are,
what -- exactly what the State argued to the jury
apparently would have been enough, is just nothing more
than a trap for the unwary, who is told, through culture
and learning, that he has a right to remain silent.
And he does the one thing that is consistent
with his right, which is exercising it, and, somehow,
the State is telling you that it can walk into court and
say, because he remains silent, he's guilty of a crime;
jury, you should conclude he's guilty of a crime.
And, Justice Sotomayor, when you asked the
State, well, what about an officer that tells the
defendant, as he will have every incentive to do, in
South Carolina v. Neville, in a roughly comparable
situation, that law enforcement actually admitted they
were already doing it, but the States tell you they'll
do it here, when the officer says, if you don't answer,
we're going to use that against you, the State said that
would be coercion. But the officer would be doing
nothing more than stating the rule the Court is asking
you to announce today.
So wouldn't the defendant know the law?
Don't we assume that the suspect knows the law? And the
State's telling you, well, if the officer tells the
person what the law is, it's coercion.
So, really, what we're asking today is
nothing radical. It's nothing of a departure of our
deepest traditions, which require the government to
shoulder the load itself, to prove the case itself, and
not to enlist the defendant as an instrument in his own
demise.
People's silence -- it is the time-honored
concept of the Fifth Amendment, which, remember, was
created for out-of-court questioning by law enforcement
authorities, that people who remain silent could not
have that used against them at trial.
And, finally, I hope the -- the confusion
with respect to the Berghuis, as related to this case,
has been dispelled. I think Justice Kagan got it
exactly right. But, remember, another way to make it
clear is that, if Mr. Salinas had said, in response to
the question, I'd like for you to stop asking me
questions, the police wouldn't have had to honor that.
Somebody not in custody doesn't have a right
to have questioning cut off, so the police could have
kept asking him questions. That's the only right that a
custodial suspect has and needs to expressly invoke.
The right to remain silent is not something that's ever
had to be expressly invoked by somebody in custody or
not in custody, and there's no good reason to require it
to be invoked here.
If the Court has any further questions, I'd
be happy to entertain them. Otherwise, I'll submit the
case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'll like to go back to
what Justice Ginsburg argued because there is an
argument here that there wasn't an invocation of the
right, that, by physical conduct, there was a statement.
Would you have had a problem if the prosecutor had
argued at trial -- you know, when he was asked about
this testing, he didn't remain silent, he got nervous?
MR. FISHER: No, that would be -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that shows his
guilt.
MR. FISHER: That would be an entirely
different case. And we wouldn't have a problem with the
State making legitimate arguments based on demeanor
evidence that is, itself, communicative, as opposed to
what it did in this case, which is argue that his
silence demonstrated his guilt.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:16 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
26:4 affect 57:14 analogous 49:22 answers 25:21 25:8,16 26:2
63:11 afternoon 59:13 55:7 anymore 35:14 39:9,14,22 40:3
33:22 30:23 34:8,13 48:8,9,12 49:15 Appeals 4:1,7 arguments 63:4
agreed 17:12 51:9 52:8 53:7 1:14 arising 47:8
agrees 6:16 8:8 54:16 55:2,14 applied 48:14 16:3 19:6 22:10
32:6 ahead 27:11 57:21 58:12 21:20 53:18 37:24 48:6,20
20:23 21:2 answer 6:2 7:15 43:18 44:17 13:11 15:14
allow 36:23 45:2 11:1,16 14:10 applying 3:14 29:17 30:10,14
allows 45:19 22:5,12,21 23:6 appreciable 47:5 37:22 41:25
27:7 ambiguous 31:19 37:10,14 38:9 April 1:9 49:20 50:6
59:17 39:6 40:12,16 argue 7:14 17:6 assertion 39:16
30:9 32:11 3:20 4:2,19 45:12 46:5,14 30:11 31:16,18 1:19
5:16 11:21 46:24 51:19 33:8 58:9 59:22 assume 49:25
13:10 14:21 54:8 55:1,3,4 argued 11:15,17 assuming 22:7
28:18 29:10 57:17,18 59:15 argues 8:23 34:6 attempt 34:16,17
44:11,13 45:10 answered 4:14 22:16 29:20,22 attempting 39:2
56:9 59:2,4 answering 15:18 argument 1:12 authority 43:20
62:17 Breyer 5:5,12,19 13:23 27:9 clear 6:4 9:5 10:4 concept 61:20
25:16 42:3,24 certain 41:21 49:6 62:20
34:2 51:22 59:1 challenge 14:3 59:23,24 confronts 47:11
43:24 bright 21:21 change 44:20 coercion 4:5 conjunction
broad 58:15 Chief 3:3,8 17:13 coercive 23:11 32:8 33:4 37:15
3:7 burden 3:22 29:1,5 35:22 come 10:16,17 20:11
58:21 48:7,12 58:18 16:17 19:1,5 consent 49:25
32:21 California 1:15 47:8 50:2 45:24 46:4,13 consequence
36:8 call 31:10 46:12 choose 29:13 47:22 47:9,12,15
43:16,22 called 20:18 24:8 39:14 49:5 comes 5:25 consider 9:14
59:13 Canterbury 59:2 chose 10:21 16:9 32:12 42:8 31:3
10:7,22 Carolina 61:1 53:16 59:3,7 55:20 45:8 55:17 56:4
case 3:4,13,16 Circuits 44:21,22 commence 17:11 60:18
23:2,8 4:4,16,16,22 circumstance comment 8:18 Constitution
25:3,5 4:23 5:21,23,24 14:25 15:8 36:19 42:14,18 23:21
34:11 6:9,25 8:9,10 circumstances 43:4 53:6 constitutional
38:19 9:9 11:15 14:9 58:13 commented 4:19 33:20 35:9
15:2 16:19 17:2 cite 42:4 43:3 27:19 45:15
18:21 21:7 24:4 59:1 commission construed 54:20
54:23 25:9 26:14 cited 44:16 59:3 49:10 contemporane...
61:25 30:16 32:2 37:7 59:9 commit 15:14 30:18
54:16 56:10 48:17 completely 37:11 continuing 36:1
created 61:21 62:12 demise 3:25 distinguish 22:24
15:15 21:9 cut 10:9 11:10 demonstrated district 1:17
60:21,22 62:7 denied 3:18 disturbing 36:14
34:25 cross 7:21 D 1:19 2:9 3:1 depending 21:5 door 5:25
40:21 crucial 24:1 34:3 48:9 depends 15:7 double 47:25
41:4 43:6 cry 7:3,4,12,18 Davis 54:23 designed 3:20 doubt 14:19
58:18 63:8 curiae 1:21 2:10 deal 15:25 55:11 difference 12:16 54:2 59:7,8
Curry 1:17 2:6 decide 6:8 14:4 47:5 50:25 28:5,7,8 35:6
4:1,7,18 30:1,7,13 31:1 decided 32:4 12:1 14:7,8,12 drawing 34:23
5:2 6:22 31:4,13,17,25 decides 32:11 16:15,17 21:7 drawn 40:17
10:7,10,23 32:21 33:3,10 deciding 49:20 21:23 25:12 56:16
14:3 33:24 34:4,16 deepest 61:15 26:19 27:10,11 Drayton 49:22
20:9,12 34:25 35:4,7,15 defendant 3:23 37:11 38:8,17 drops 8:12
24:12 35:24 36:6,21 3:24 7:25 8:3 41:1,6,6,6,13 due 4:22
27:8 37:18 38:7,19 8:12,24 9:10,25 41:15 46:14 D.C 1:8,20
29:6 39:1,11,15 40:4 10:7,20 13:25 49:9,11 50:14
33:12,12 40:16,21,24 16:1,13 19:11 53:8,14 57:19 E
38:20 41:4,5,15,24 32:3 33:18 34:8 57:20 59:11 E 2:1 3:1,1
43:17,22 42:22 43:1,6,10 35:9 37:9,13,20 63:3 earlier 31:10
44:2 43:16,22 46:7 38:9,22 39:4 difficult 21:7 54:9
46:17 40:24 41:2 42:8 difficulty 18:25 easier 10:13
47:1,11 custodial 5:3 44:12 45:3,14 35:16 45:11 easy 27:17 28:8
7:23 9:25 10:6 45:21 46:9,21 dignity 3:23 effectively 3:22
51:2 21:22 22:9 23:3 48:3,3 52:3 dime 19:8 19:5
52:23 25:25 37:19 54:10 58:1 directly 46:20 effectuate 12:9
54:4,21 49:18 50:13,14 60:25 61:9,17 disagree 22:1 effectuated
57:23,25 50:15,17,21 defendants 9:18 47:18 11:12
61:7 51:1,2 53:3 9:19 44:22,24 dismayed 55:25 either 14:23
54:5 62:9 46:4 disobeying 47:7 15:20 46:5,21
53:16,20 9:19 12:24 17:3 29:7 30:17 32:6 dispelled 50:17 47:23
17:14 21:13,13 degree 9:20 62:1 encounter 40:3,5
36:22 25:12,14 32:23 demeanor 8:5,17 47:4 20:12
45:8 49:7 53:23 8:21 63:4 distinction 20:3,8 enforcement 5:4
61:2,21 52:11 60:5,19 failing 9:11 2:13 3:5,6,8 50:25
expect 22:4 failure 22:5 29:7 6:8,13 7:5,8,13 62:14
59:10 explicitly 23:17 60:5 15:3,9 16:11,18 general 1:20
express 13:8,18 fallen 60:9 17:19 18:2,6,13 6:16 8:8 13:18
60:3 fears 52:1 21:16 22:13,22 22:1 27:4 28:14
50:18 expresses 55:2 feel 19:15 32:23 24:3,10,18 26:3 60:9
56:6 expression 9:20 feet 8:20 30:19 26:8,9,13,18 generally 19:20
11:11 12:7,14 Fifth 3:10,20 4:2 28:4 47:18 generation 22:15
9:1 62:9,11 13:10 14:21 Fletcher 44:1 genuine 12:11
22:19 extend 6:5,6 15:12 17:17 flood 27:8 getting 17:16
35:12 43:23,25 44:4 22:6 23:9,17 flown 47:2 GINGER 1:19
37:16 extended 43:17 28:18 29:9 flows 46:20 2:9 48:9
44:23 extends 6:15 34:14,18 36:9 focus 11:5 Ginsburg 4:15
56:1 63:5 extension 44:18 36:13,17 37:6 follow 6:6 8:15 36:2,12
51:9 face 5:3 42:15 48:22 50:5 52:3 44:5,15,15 give 3:13 31:7,8
62:2 43:9 50:7 52:5,11,14 56:8 forbidden 7:6 50:16 51:9
faces 51:3 final 7:19 formal 60:11 42:8 50:21 51:7
56:11 fact 9:9 11:17 find 3:16 10:23 former 35:3 giving 9:18 21:9
36:1,4 42:14 43:18 43:12 formulations 14:3 17:17 18:8
55:20 44:12,24 47:10 fingerprints 27:12 18:15,24 27:21
53:6 47:23 fortiori 23:7 32:25 37:24
28:11 47:17 finishing 9:2 four 37:8 58:19 43:21 57:19
52:14 56:8 fail 38:10 52:10 first 9:17 32:14 framed 13:6 62:17
failed 11:16 32:16,16 33:22 free 24:14 goes 17:9 18:14
39:5 39:6 Fisher 1:15 2:3 fundamental going 5:13 9:3
17:3,6,8 29:14,20 30:12 38:8 14:23 introducing
18:12,15 30:20 32:3,7 infer 39:16,17 34:19 41:11
23:6,6,8 33:2,3,4 37:15 I inference 36:3,7 investigating
25:7 27:8 60:21,22 idea 17:23 48:4 45:16,18 50:3 15:13 32:13
guy 25:7 32:18 52:9 56:15 36:11 47:25
33:14,15 identical 24:4 information investigation
46:2,24 H ignore 31:11 13:21 6:10 29:17
55:4 half 56:13 imagine 18:2 inherent 4:5 investigatory
56:20 happened 21:4 immigration 24:11 51:3 20:9 21:10 22:3
61:5 happens 21:4 28:13 inherently 23:10 28:9
16:23 happy 62:15 43:9 52:10 6:3 9:22 10:1
27:6 28:22 hard 9:3 10:17 impeachment initiate 20:11 10:24 13:5,8,18
56:10 18:7 16:14 59:8,10 initiated 28:1 16:7 17:17,21
hear 3:3 23:6 impermissible innocent 3:17 24:20,23 25:13
14:1,2 48:21 52:23 40:20 inquisitorial 3:21 36:23,25 37:4,6
15:10 34:7 help 32:13 implicitly 55:5 Insofar 8:21 38:3,5,21 41:25
42:19,22 hey 5:8 6:1 import 31:5 instance 55:19 45:9,9 49:1
highlights 50:25 importance instructed 9:12 50:12,12,20,22
hold 4:24 13:4 important 10:4 insufficient 57:3,9,13 58:5
18:15 20:5,5 52:24 interrogated 19:19 23:9 25:1
6:15,17 33:24 34:5 35:7 incriminating 10:11 12:8 51:1 40:1,2,4 41:21
21:19 36:6,21 39:12 4:12 48:20 51:1 52:13 54:6 44:25 48:16,25
23:2 40:25 42:23 incrimination interview 3:11 56:5 57:11 62:9
43:17,18 43:16 46:8 62:5 52:1 55:13 6:9 17:12 19:7 invoked 10:10
44:4 hope 61:24 incriminatory 20:9 21:10 25:8 11:11 12:7,14
46:15,18 hour 25:19 56:13 13:20 27:16 28:9 29:9 12:16 32:20
59:16 hours 10:23 inculpate 52:20 37:21 48:18 34:14 48:22
31:23 32:1 Houston 1:18 8:24 9:11 6:11 invoking 12:22
49:3 55:17 hypothetical indicate 23:21 introduce 8:13 23:17 28:18
63:1,7 16:12 21:6 30:3 indication 44:12 9:1 29:20 34:17 36:8
17:7 54:10 55:6 indicative 11:1 45:6,8 involved 36:24
22:12 hypotheticals individual 3:23 introduced 18:6 involving 28:15
23:23 21:12,17 40:19 language 31:6 look 9:9 14:8,13 35:11,13
41:23 45:5 40:22 41:3 54:8 largely 42:2 37:24 39:22 merely 29:12,23
19:15
3:6 27:22 38:12 42:6 43:13 52:12 minutes 25:18,19
39:14 51:24 44:20 45:3,8 lot 39:9,25 56:12 58:19
kinds 27:7 61:12,21 58:5 5:2 7:24 10:8
36:22 13:24,25 15:11 60:12 42:8 43:5 50:16
60:4 17:16 19:18,22 maintain 43:8 50:16,21,24
16:9 25:12 30:1,19 63:4 54:15 57:24
31:3,7 31:13,14 34:20 manipulated Mirandized 25:4
35:3 45:22 35:25 37:7 47:20 25:5
59:22 38:10,15 39:14 manner 10:11 misleading 27:6
39:20 40:7 12:8 13:11 misread 44:14
43:15 56:14,18 misunderstood
45:4 match 18:12 4:8
46:1,5 matched 7:2 momentarily
material 16:20 55:25
33:21 limiting 13:22
47:6 48:3 matter 1:11 motivation 9:6
34:13 limits 38:1,2,3
50:5,5 52:17,25 55:18 52:20
38:11,24 line 5:20,23 6:4,5
54:25 63:11 mouth 40:15
6:7 7:22 9:7
56:10,12 McKune 47:4 murder 15:13
41:5,19 21:22 24:8,9
mean 5:6,12,16 47:25
51:5,7 28:5,7,8 34:22
11:23 23:11 Murphy 48:14
56:19 35:6 45:24
58:5 29:12 31:1 52:23
60:12 lines 47:21
61:9 32:22 41:17 mute 5:3 44:5
line-drawing
43:13 44:6,6
lip 30:20
54:24 55:12 N 2:1,1 3:1
61:10 57:16 nail 33:21
38:21 24:9 25:25 49:12,19,24 37:22 41:8,8,16
36:8 odd 20:15 19:11 61:21 53:17 61:12 47:19,22 49:17
44:3 offer 31:21 overarching person's 3:11 55:23 56:1,23
offering 44:19 52:20 20:5 58:9 59:25 60:5
officer 7:11 P 2:4,14 3:7 policeman 6:1
34:9 40:4 47:21,24 48:18 47:21 59:1 phrase 44:5 posited 38:18
59:19,25 60:24 Palmigiano physical 4:4 8:5 position 25:20
official 47:6 part 5:6 15:4 pick 39:14 48:5
62:23 Ohio 43:24 51:12 19:16 30:21 pinning 39:8 preceded 4:25
16:3 25:4 8:18 38:19 39:8 participate 20:13 play 34:15 26:18 37:15
27:19 42:13 43:5 particular 17:15 plead 34:18 precision 21:6
39:3 53:11 55:10 30:4 33:17 34:8 36:16 40:9 45:4 premised 52:9
6:9,17 49:11 47:17 57:8,18 48:13 51:18
10:1,5 once 8:10 9:4,5 Particularly plus 22:20 pressures 24:11
23:4 10:21 24:9 35:22 point 11:8 26:8 51:4
29:8 40:2 50:16 53:20 penalties 47:2 26:21 37:12 presumably
48:17 54:6 penalty 46:19,20 39:24 40:1 52:19
51:1 operative 52:15 people 17:3,9 41:18,21 43:8 presume 51:16
54:6 opinion 21:15,17 19:18,20 20:13 43:14 46:9,10 prevented 40:8
43:15,21 47:4 48:1 50:5,5 50:16 53:2 principle 13:19
31:17 38:7 opposed 35:10 perceived 58:4 6:9 7:1,11 10:9 10:24 11:2,2
58:25 47:7 63:5 perfectly 19:6,10 10:16 12:6 14:7 48:15 49:1 56:5
33:19 41:11,21 17:23 27:9,17 24:25 25:6 18:19 30:3
ordinary 28:19 20:17,17 21:7 31:20 32:4,12 46:15 55:16
17:22 provided 32:22 16:5 20:5 47:24 56:23 61:13 9:10 20:8
46:22 45:18 questioning 10:9 reason 8:9 9:11 reliance 43:10
62:21 psychological 11:10 27:21 11:8 13:8,13,20 relied 45:10
4:5 28:3 31:11 13:25 15:10 rely 44:12
20:19 26:12,16 48:19 61:21 22:24,24 23:3 22:5 33:19 35:9
23:2 8:2 12:6,22 41:6 50:23 13:10 19:18,23
7:15 8:4,4 9:12 38:9,16,23 39:7 reasons 16:12 25:5 29:19,24
12:5 24:25 16:3 17:10,15 56:13 57:1,2,6 recall 41:3 remains 8:25
58:15 19:9,17 22:5,20 57:8,11,17 62:5 receives 24:13 32:18,19 60:21
8:11 9:6,9 30:6,10,17,25 Quinn 54:21 record 14:9 19:2,16,20
17:6 31:2 32:6,15,16 quote 3:17 reduces 13:6 21:17 25:2
55:23 32:16 33:7 35:1 quotes 53:10 referenced 31:6 26:22 28:17
22:9,11 37:14 38:1,10 41:17 55:16 repeatedly 49:16
31:18 38:13,16 39:6 refrain 3:13 reply 59:1
33:7 40:23 41:7,9,10 R refusal 7:15 9:14 require 13:8
42:14,17 41:13,16 42:11 R 3:1 10:17,25 16:24 28:15
53:5 59:22 42:15,19 44:7 radical 49:2 refuse 5:13 45:9 50:11,12
45:11,12 46:2 61:14 14:10 49:25 50:20,22,24
49:13 51:19 raise 14:21 55:17 required 11:20
58:16 54:3,9 55:1,3 raises 14:23 18:22 22:11 requirement
59:16,20 60:1 really 28:1 29:12 related 61:25 requiring 17:21
60:19 62:2,6,8 saying 8:16 separate 12:4,10 41:12 48:24
42:7 62:10,20 11:20 21:25 serious 54:3 49:3,12 51:11
57:11 rights 9:18,25 24:7 25:19 set 36:13 51:14 53:19
61:25 10:6,22 12:1,4 29:12 33:17 setting 5:3 6:17 55:12,16 58:14
36:19 33:1 37:6 42:9 38:5 39:15 13:8 14:17 15:9 silent 4:18 8:25
2:7,11 50:6 51:17 55:4 60:11 21:20 22:4,9 13:10,25 14:18
48:11 53:18,21 58:1 says 6:1,21 14:9 23:4,11,15 14:20 15:6,17
35:17 ROBERTS 3:3 27:3,13,14 37:5 28:9,19 37:19 19:18,23 21:1
59:9 62:3 17:13,25 18:4,9 42:9,11 43:8 50:13,18,19,21 25:6,22,25 26:1
roughly 61:1 56:23,25 57:7 28:12,13,14 51:23 52:4 55:8
37:14 rule 3:14,19 8:10 SCALIA 30:22 settled 6:19 60:6,17,21
11:9,10 22:25 23:2 scenario 13:19 shifts 3:22 26:1 27:1 51:18
24:25 27:17 15:21 16:14 shocked 55:25 single 42:15
28:25 34:20,21 26:6 45:25 shoot 22:10 43:14
13:10,10 35:4 41:25 51:24 shotgun 7:2 sir 17:5
44:19 45:1,5 search 49:23 18:12 48:1,2 sit 55:22
16:7 48:15 52:4,9 searching 13:23 shoulder 61:16 sitting 25:18
17:18 56:6,6 57:13,16 second 8:4 59:12 show 9:21 25:24 situation 10:15
58:15 60:8 61:7 see 26:2 44:4 26:1 27:16 32:4 14:23 16:1 20:4
22:22,22 55:22,24 56:23 shows 11:16,18 20:20 21:23
24:7 S seek 14:3 17:7 18:23 23:15 27:20
28:11,18 S 2:1 3:1 seeking 13:20 29:24 30:12 31:24 32:1,5
31:1,12 Salinas 1:3 3:4 seen 6:1 8:9,10 53:14 62:25 33:18 34:8 37:1
32:10,20 3:17 4:10 11:9 9:18 shuffling 8:20 38:9 39:4 43:18
34:15 13:9 14:10 selective 11:7 30:19 44:4,18 47:10
36:9 15:18 16:22 38:13 silence 3:11 4:19 49:19 51:16
39:2,6 17:11 19:1 24:3 selectively 19:14 4:25 7:15,24 53:22 61:2
42:6 47:22 59:15,24 self-executing 8:11,18 9:5,21 situations 23:16
44:11 62:3 48:16 11:2,3,8,14 56:3
45:10,15 Salinas's 20:4 self-incriminat... 16:6,21 18:19 smart 36:17
49:8 52:8 sanction 47:5,6 9:22 10:25 19:14 24:6 25:9 Smith 5:6
sanctuary 27:1 selling 5:24 26:3,17 27:19 Solicitor 1:19
8:8 13:18 spoken 16:24 stay 39:25 46:1 48:5,16,22 51:3 terribly 27:5,5
15:22 22:2 Stevens 36:24 51:11,13,17,25 test 8:7 15:4,22
21:18,19 sprung 48:4 47:3 54:6,19 55:8,19 testified 14:14
27:4 28:14 squarely 37:8 stop 20:10 24:25 56:11,23 61:10 14:14 59:25
59:6,14 stack 15:2 39:19 41:22 62:9 testify 7:11
stand 6:23 16:13 56:24 62:4 suspect's 48:24 52:10 59:19
15:13 standard 54:13 19:12 46:5 sweating 8:19 Texas 1:6,18 3:4
25:1,4 54:18,20 57:22 strategically system 3:21 4:1,7
27:9 58:2,4 55:21 Thank 3:8 29:1
60:5 62:6 standing 44:5 street 20:6 29:19 T 48:7 58:18,22
stands 5:3 40:23 strikes 3:19 T 2:1,1 63:8
50:11 started 7:4,11,18 63:11 takes 6:20 34:3 37:5 56:21
9:10 21:8 subsequent 4:23 talk 10:16,17 60:11,18
27:5 state 4:12 6:14 18:11 48:4 21:2,8 24:14 30:18 32:7
38:13 7:9,13,14 8:22 suddenly 6:20 25:7 27:2,13 37:14 40:6
60:12 8:23 11:15,17 56:14 34:18 35:10,14 think 7:5,21 8:7
10:12 11:6 58:25 59:9,13 30:2 55:3,7 45:4 46:13 12:19 13:4 15:3
16:11,16 59:23,25 60:4,8 57:5,11 47:23 15:15 17:9,16
28:24 60:14,20,24 suggest 30:3 talked 10:21 17:19 19:10
30:5,8 61:5 63:4 32:3 35:14,16 talking 39:19,23 20:7 21:5,10
31:9 statement 16:20 35:17,18 39:23,23,25 22:16,23 25:16
32:10 16:21 17:4 23:9 suggested 51:23 44:6 59:7 25:17 26:2 27:8
45:23 25:24 35:8 suggestion 39:1 tangible 47:16 27:20 28:7,21
49:2 58:8 49:14 52:21 47:19 tantamount 8:3 30:13 31:4,5,17
62:17,25 62:20 supplying 4:12 tap 23:20 31:19 34:7 35:7
59:6 2:10 16:25 37:5 14:22 56:19 55:11 61:3 50:23,25 52:12
54:21 55:16 8:13 46:4 58:9 59:23 53:10,11,13
59:7 47:22 19:4,6 21:23,24 terms 25:12 58:6,12 62:1
trouble 55:20 unfairness 18:25 Weir 44:1
37:3 true 49:14 2:10 37:5 48:1053:21 went 10:20
40:18 try 8:12 9:6 49:21 54:21 waiver 32:15 weren't 53:22
57:12,24 20:11 unknown 20:17 waives 53:3,17 We'll 3:3
14:25 19:13 13:14,17 60:20 33:12,17 37:3
52:14 unwary 60:16 6:21 11:19 19:3 44:19,19 45:1,4
20:9,12,14 turns 5:7,14 use 4:13 8:11 24:19 25:22 whatsoever
25:22 56:21 36:23 44:10 34:18,24 35:8,8 38:23
33:13,14 two 8:2 11:25 46:2 47:15 35:10,14,23 wife 22:10
12:4 16:11 53:19 61:5 37:9,10 38:15 willing 10:23
36:18 55:8 utilize 33:16 40:9 44:10,14 win 59:16
43:18 47:1 51:18 52:7 55:1 witness 6:20,23
60:10 57:17,18 58:15 words 8:2 10:9
U V 59:15 60:1 16:24 19:25
60:16 unadministrable 36:24 37:2,4 wants 5:8 10:8 40:10,14 60:12
28:14 22:20 30:6 45:19 47:4 42:14 47:22 worst 60:10
21:21 22:25 vacuum 30:16 54:15 61:9 62:5 63:3
16:3 18:5 understanding Verbatim 59:23 Washington 1:8
view 53:24 54:2 1:20 Y
26:17
41:12 24:19 violation 34:21 26:4 46:15
46:3,8,14 understood voluntarily 49:17 62:19
50:12 11:24 16:12 49:23 way 62:2
61:23 unfair 13:14 voluntary 29:8 ways 8:2 1
16:25 27:5 47:8 50:2 51:16 Wednesday 1:9 10 47:21
1:13 3:2
1:4 3:4
63:10
47:21
1:9
11:16
54:10,17 55:6
1:9
2:7
2:4 37:24
5:2 7:23 22:14
43:5 44:5
59:1
42:11 59:1
42:12
42:12
25:18,19
42:5
2:11
53:4,5
2:14
47:21
