IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
EDWARD F. MARACICH, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 12-25
v. :
MICHAEL EUGENE SPEARS, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 9, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:16 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JOSEPH R. GUERRA, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioners.
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JOSEPH R. GUERRA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JOSEPH R. GUERRA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 59
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:16 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 12-25, Maracich v. Spears.
Mr. Guerra?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH R. GUERRA
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. GUERRA: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The DPPA requires express consent when personal
information in the DMV databases is used for bulk
solicitation. The express consent requirement is
Congress's considered response to one of the core
problems that the DPPA targets, and the litigation
exception creates no exception for lawyers.
In fact, when Congress intended to create an
explicit exception --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does it create an
exception for research? Let's assume that a university
wanted to do a research project, and it needs subjects.
I get solicited for it all the time.
Does this exception apply to them, too?
MR. GUERRA: Our view, Your Honor, as we
indicated in our reply brief, is it would not because we
believe (b)(12)'s consent requirement governs commercial
bulk use of DMV information, which is clear from the
fact that it's focusing on marketing and solicitation
and also from the history behind the statute, which is
very much aimed at use of DMV information --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It says, "surveys," not
just marketing or solicitations.
MR. GUERRA: Yes, it does, Justice
Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, there is a
commercial component, but there appears to be a
noncommercial component as well.
MR. GUERRA: We -- we think, Justice
Sotomayor, that this statute is sensibly construed to --
under the noscitur a sociis principle that we are
relying on elsewhere in our argument with respect to
(b)(4). That that same principle applies to the three
things that -- that the bulk solicitation -- the bulk
use provision governs and, particularly, when you look
at the history underlying the statute which was very
much aimed at use of the information for direct
marketing.
And so -- as I was saying, Congress made
clear --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does that apply to the
States, too, when they want to market against drunk
driving, they want to market against -- for their health
insurance processes versus private processes for State
drug provided --
MR. GUERRA: Justice Sotomayor, I believe
what your first question sounded -- your first example
sounded like it was a noncommercial use. I think that
in the -- in the case where the State is acting as a
commercial entity, the same rules we would -- we would
apply with respect to lawyer solicitation would apply
there.
And the reason I say that -- and the reason
I think it's so clear that Congress intended that really
lies in the language of Subsection (b)(2) because,
there, Congress made clear that it understood that these
provisions are not wholly independent permissions and,
in fact, that the consent requirement governs all
commercial bulk use, absent an explicit exception.
And, if you take a look, it's in the second
page of the addendum to our opening brief. And it says
that, "Personal information may be used in connection
with matters of motor vehicle market research activity,
including survey research."
Congress included the survey research clause
because a commercial bulk survey using personal
information would otherwise be governed by (b)(12)'s
consent requirement, and so Congress had to make clear
that it was creating an exception for one industry to
engage in this one particular type of bulk use.
And the reason we know that the survey
research clause means that is because, under
Respondent's interpretation, it has no affect
whatsoever. If -- if, as they say, each of these
clauses is wholly independent and sufficient to
authorize whatever it covers, a phrase covering "in
connection with matters of motor vehicle market research
activities" would, in and of itself, cover the subset of
motor vehicle market research survey research.
So to give that clause any effect, you must
understand that it's overriding the express consent
requirement of (b)(12) and -- such that you now have to,
when you look at the other provisions that might
authorize bulk commercial use, find a comparably
explicit authorization, and you can't find that in
(b)(4). (B)(4) says nothing about solicitation, much
less bulk solicitation. And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It says, "anticipation of
litigation in connection" --
MR. GUERRA: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not only ongoing
litigation, but it can be used in connection with
anticipation of litigation.
MR. GUERRA: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. But my
point is that, in (b)(2), you find an explicit
authorization for survey research, which is one of the
very three topics covered in (b)(12) itself. When you
look at (b)(4), you don't see anything about
solicitation, which is the kind of explicit override
that (b)(2) indicates Congress wanted or -- or is
necessary in order to conclude that another subsection
overrides (b)(12)'s express consent requirement.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. -- Mr. Guerra, I have to
admit that, given what a mess this statute is, those
three words don't quite do it for me. So, I mean,
the -- the argument against you, right, is -- as to
using (b)(12) to define (b)(4), is that, look, this is
just a list of exceptions to a general prohibition, and
no one is more general or specific than any other, and
all you have to do is fit within one of them. And it
doesn't matter whether you don't fit within two of them,
if you don't fit within one of them.
So then the question would be: Are you
covered by (b)(4) or not? If not, are you covered by
(b)(12) or not?
MR. GUERRA: Well, Justice Kagan, with
respect, number one, I don't think you can so readily
dismiss the -- the interpretive import of those three
words because they don't have any function other than to
override the express consent requirement in (b)(12).
And, if there is no need -- if (b)(12) doesn't apply to
any other subsection, there is no need to be overriding
it in (b)(2).
But we don't rely solely on that -- the
force of those three words. It's also the case that
(b)(2) -- excuse me, (b)(12) is one of the core
provisions of the statute, in the sense that it's aimed
at one of the fundamental problems that prompted passage
of the Act in the first place, which was DMVs collecting
information, then making it available to direct
marketers.
And so you are in a situation where you've
got a core restriction aimed at a core problem this
Statute
is designed to -- to resolve, but -- whereas (b)(4) is
one of the few subsections that authorize access to the
most sensitive information that Congress -- excuse me,
that DMVs were -- were collecting.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's kind of hard to
argue, when you have (b)s (1) through (14), that (b)(12)
is the core provision. Usually, it's -- it's 1 of 14
items in a list.
MR. GUERRA: Mr. Chief Justice, what I mean
by that is that we know it's -- it's core in the sense
that it's aimed at one of the core problems that
Congress was addressing. And (b)(4), by contrast, is
one of the few provisions in which Congress authorized
access to the most sensitive information DMVs collect,
such as medical and disability status and Social
Security numbers.
And we submit it's simply implausible to
think that a Congress concerned with undue
public/private access to DMV information would, in the
same statute, grant lawyers the right -- a unique right,
to use that highly sensitive information in order to
engage in bulk solicitation.
And, in fact, the legislative record here is
devoid of any evidence that Congress was aware that
lawyers ever made use of DMV information for
solicitation, much less that -- or that they
contemplated it, much less that Congress made a
conscious decision to allow them to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you recognize that you
could use (b)(4) to identify class members?
MR. GUERRA: We do, Your Honor. And -- and
that's -- that is because that is not a solicitation.
That class notice is advising people who are not aware
that there is pending litigation that could affect their
rights.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So -- so if it's -- if
it's a solicitation, suppose this information was a -- the
recent automobile purchaser was asked: Did you buy a
car recently? Were you charged this additional fee?
Period. That would be okay?
MR. GUERRA: Your Honor, yes. It would be
okay -- well, let me just say if -- if the person --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That would come under
(b)(4)?
MR. GUERRA: Justice Ginsburg, if I may just
qualify my answer, yes, if you were investigating claims
on behalf of a potential client. I don't think -- I
don't think people can just go down to the DMV and
answer questions of personal interests to themselves --
or lawyers, for that matter. But that is an instance in
which you are simply engaging in investigation, assuming
that you are investigating a possible lawsuit, and not a
circumstance in which you are engaging in solicitation.
And that is a fundamental difference.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, aren't we going to
be told the whole essence of the class action is you
have to see if there is an injury that goes beyond some
particular clients that you know. And isn't this --
isn't this investigation in anticipation?
MR. GUERRA: Your Honor -- Justice Kennedy,
if they had limited their activities to conducting an
investigation, to determine the scope of a potential
claim, we would have no quarrel with that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the anticipation is,
are -- are you willing to join the class?
MR. GUERRA: But that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Isn't that critical?
MR. GUERRA: No -- no, Justice Kennedy, I
don't think so. And I think the point of (b)(4) is it's
focused on proceedings, not on lawyers. And it's
asking -- its basic goal is to ensure that tribunals can
do their job.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I do think you are
helped somewhat by the -- the chronological progression
here, is it including the service of process, which
means the case has already started, and then
investigation in anticipation of the litigation that
follows the service of process.
So it -- it is true that there is a
chronological aspect. In order, it seems to me, for the
Respondents to prevail, they have to say that
investigation in anticipation of litigation also
precedes service of process.
MR. GUERRA: They would, and I think they do
make that argument, Justice Kennedy. My point is that
the focus of (b)(4) is on the tribunals, in ensuring
that they have -- they can have the information, that
they can do their job, which is to make and enforce
judgments. Lawyers get information under (b)(4) when
they act as officers of these tribunals, not for their
own commercial benefit. When --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Guerra, where do you get
that from, in (b)(4), this focus on tribunals, rather
than lawyers? Because -- you know, the -- the
investigation is done by lawyers, right? And that's a
critical part of (b)(4), so where -- where does that
come from in the statute?
MR. GUERRA: It comes from the phrase "for
use in connection with any civil, criminal,
administrative or arbitral proceeding in any Federal,
State, or local court or agency." And --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But then it includes things
that are clearly done by lawyers.
MR. GUERRA: Right. My point is that
lawyers get access when they act as officers of those
tribunals, not for their own commercial self-interests.
And an investigation in anticipation of litigation is an
obligation that all lawyers have, to ensure that they
have a well-founded factual basis for bringing a lawsuit
in the first instance.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, are -- are you
saying that the study must be either a solicitation or
an investigation? It can't be both? Why can't it be
both?
MR. GUERRA: Because, Justice Kennedy, the
DM -- the DPPA is designed to -- it was aiming at a
fundamental problem of private individuals obtaining DMV
information for commercial solicitation purposes. And
Congress, we know, wanted to stop that in the absence
of consent. So -- by the same token, they wanted to
make sure that they weren't intruding on the information
that courts and other tribunals need to do their jobs.
And so the -- the distinction is you can
engage in an investigation because that's acting as an
officer of the court, in order to help the court
ultimately render its judgment.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's why -- would
you -- I want to make sure I understood your prior
answer. You said, I thought, that it would have been
okay to get the information from the bureau and then
ask, did you buy a car recently? Did you have this
additional charge? Now, suppose -- you said that was
all right?
MR. GUERRA: That -- Justice Ginsburg, I
apologize if I am not making myself clear enough. The
vital distinction is between investigative activity to
ensure that you have a well-founded basis to file a
lawsuit, versus solicitation --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, isn't that --
wasn't that crystal-clear here? Because the dealers
were saying, you can't go forward unless you have a
plaintiff to match every dealer. You're trying to bring
a representative action, but your list of plaintiffs,
none of them bought from Dealer Z. So we are
investigating to see if we can have a representative
action with a line-up of plaintiffs, each of whom has
purchased from a list of defendants.
MR. GUERRA: Justice Ginsburg, determining
that there are -- there are enough plaintiffs to justify
a class or group action is the -- the investigative
activity, but, when you go on to invite them -- and the
Fourth Circuit ruled that these letters were
solicitations, and that ruling is not before this Court
at this point --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, suppose we had --
what -- it was limited to did you buy the car, did you
pay the fee? And then somebody who --
MR. GUERRA: Justice Ginsburg -- I'm sorry
to interrupt, but something distracted my -- I couldn't
hear the beginning of your question.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: We -- we have just those
questions, no -- are you interested in joining a
lawsuit, please call us. But somebody who receives this
notice, it just asks, did you buy a car, did you pay the
charge, then calls the lawyer's office and says, tell me
something about this letter that you told me -- that
you -- you sent to me.
And how does the lawyer answer?
MR. GUERRA: If the lawyer answers by asking
investigative questions, when did you buy the car, were
you charged these fees, were -- were you advised, were
they prominently displayed, all of which is in gathering
information for the lawsuit, then the lawyer is engaging
in permissible investigative prefiling activity --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If the lawyer had said
more -- did you buy a car, did you get charged the fee,
we're investigating this to determine whether this is --
violates the law -- is that okay?
MR. GUERRA: It still is, Your -- Your
Honor. The critical line --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So the only -- the only
thing that's bad is to say, come call us for a
consultation?
MR. GUERRA: If you were interested in
participating as -- in this proceeding. And --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what's the difference
between that and how you answered Justice Ginsburg, when
she said class notice would be okay?
MR. GUERRA: Because class notice is not a
proposal of a -- of a relation -- a commercial
transaction. It is noticed --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Wait a minute. It's
joining the class or opting out.
MR. GUERRA: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And, when you join the
class, you have a commercial relationship with the
lawyer no different than being a named plaintiff.
MR. GUERRA: But the function of class
notice is not to enable class lawyers to solicit
clients. It is to enable courts to render binding
judgments and to satisfy due process requirements, so
that people unaware of a litigation do not have their
rights forfeited. That is fundamentally different
than -- than soliciting clients.
And I realize that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Guerra, that
distinction -- I understand that you are deriving some
of it from (b)(12), but if I -- just -- just assume with
me that (b)(12) has nothing to do with anything, and you
were just limited to (b)(4), can you find that
distinction in (b)(4)?
MR. GUERRA: Your Honor, I think the point
here is that, if you look at the conduct that is
specified in the three examples, it is all activity that
lawyers would be engaging in as officers of a court.
And this Court has repeatedly recognized that there is a
fundamental difference between lawyers acting in their
own commercial capacities, as opposed to officers of a
court.
And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How -- how is
somebody conducting an investigation in anticipation of
litigation -- it hasn't started yet -- acting as an
officer of the court?
MR. GUERRA: Because they're discharging
their responsibility to ensure that they bring
well-founded claims and don't file suits without -- I
mean, under Rule 11, you have to have a well-founded
factual basis for the allegations in the complaint.
So you need to do --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that just
seems to me to be saying a lawyer is always acting
as an officer of the court.
MR. GUERRA: Mr. Chief Justice, with
respect --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When you're
preparing a discovery request, when you're --
anything -- anything that the officer functions --
MR. GUERRA: I think most times, when you
are in -- engaging in litigation or pre-filing an
investigation, that would be true, and that's -- that
would be all protected under (b)(4). The difference
is -- there is a -- there is a distinction. This Court
has recognized that lawyers have multiple capacities.
They wear three hats. They are -- they represent
clients, they're officers of courts, and they're
commercial actors --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Guerra, don't you
think -- I mean, I understand the distinction. The
lawyer as commercial actor versus lawyer as officer of
the court. But, boy, it's hard to get that from the
words here. I mean, that -- that seems like the kind of
old-time legislative interpretation, where we just
figured out the statute that we hoped Congress would
have written, as opposed to the statute that it did.
I mean, tell me where that distinction is in
this -- in this provision.
MR. GUERRA: Well, Justice Kagan, for one
thing, I think that, even if you decide that (b)(12) is
not governing (b) -- (b)(4), it's still part of the
statute. And it still demonstrates that Congress was
concerned about people using DMV information in order to
engage in commercial activity.
And so the question then is, here's (b)(4),
which says, we're authorizing use of information for use
in tribunals. There's no mention of lawyers here. And
so the question is -- and this provision authorizes use
of the most sensitive information that -- that DMVs
collect.
So the question you have to ask yourself is:
In light of (b)(12) and the fact that we know Congress
was trying to stop use of DMV information for
non-consensual solicitations, is it reasonable to think
that this clause authorizes lawyers to use disability
status and medical information in order to go find and
solicit clients?
And I submit it is not, particularly if you
take the same broad reading that the Respondents argue
for, the "in connection with" language, and you apply
that to (b)(6) and (b)(10), then you have these truly
incongruous results, where this Court in Condon
recognized that insurers were one of the purchasers of
the information that DMVs were selling and using it to
direct market, and yet, in connection with underwriting,
we've demonstrated that would mean that that is an
activity in connection with the business of insurance.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I -- I understand
your argument about (12), but I -- I do think that you
ought to assume we might interpret this statute, so that
each of these is independent, and you have to
concentrate on (4). You keep going back to (12), when
we're talking about (4).
If you talk about (4) for a minute, it seems
to me that you might give away too much because the
statute says, "including service of process," which
means the suit has to begin and then investigation in
anticipation of the litigation that will follow after
that suit has come in.
But you seem to give that away. You seem to
think that investigation in anticipation of litigation
can be before the suit is filed. You -- you seem to
concede that.
MR. GUERRA: Justice Kennedy --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't know why you
concede that.
MR. GUERRA: I guess I -- I've never
understood that -- after service of process, it's still
in anticipation of litigation. It's been my
understanding that service of process --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It doesn't necessarily
follow --
MR. GUERRA: It initiates --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- that they -- they are
describing only what goes on in the court. If you just
took the phrase "investigation in anticipation of
litigation," "in anticipation of" sounds like before
litigation begins.
MR. GUERRA: I am not disputing that,
Justice Ginsburg. My point is, though, even the -- the
(b)(6) and (b)(10) examples I just gave,
Justice Kennedy, don't -- it's not a reliance on (b)(12)
anymore. It's just demonstrating why it's implausible
to think that the phrase "in connection with" should be
read so literally that it authorizes anything that can
be shown to have a connection with the subject matter.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You -- you said earlier,
and it set me to thinking, that why would in
anticipation of litigation permit access to all of this
very personal information? And I don't know that, yes,
it does permit access, but only in anticipation of
litigation. So you have to prove, before you get things
like Social Security number, driver -- anything else --
all they asked for was name and addresses, I understand.
MR. GUERRA: Justice Sotomayor, that's true
in this case, but if you -- if you read before, the way
Respondents are asking you to read it, there's no
limitation in the statute that says you can specify --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, yes, there is.
There is a limitation that you're actually going to use
it in relationship to the litigation, number one. And
the States are obligated to ensure that what they
release is actually covered by one of these exceptions.
MR. GUERRA: If you interpret (b)(4) to
authorize access by lawyers in connection -- based on
the theory that they are -- it's in connection with some
litigation, they will have access --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they have to explain
why.
MR. GUERRA: You -- the -- the request in
this case simply said, "pursuant to (b)(4) of the
statute."
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, no. As I read,
the first one is: We want to see if there is a pattern
of overcharging; give us the names and addresses of
people who have recently bought a car. That seems, to
me, pretty specific as to what they want and why they
need it. And I think it's pretty easy for the State to
say this fits.
MR. GUERRA: Justice Sotomayor, two points:
The four requests that followed after the first two said
nothing of the sort, and the State gave me information.
It just said pursuant to the subsection that we're
talking about right now.
In addition, there is no reason why lawyers
couldn't go in and say, I would like to identify -- I am
investigating whether people have claims for a
disability claims or -- or based on their medical
status, and I would like information of that ilk from --
from the DMV. (B)(4) authorizes those -- that -- the
provision of that information. And it doesn't say that
there has to be some heightened showing by -- by the
lawyers in order to obtain it. So --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Guerra, suppose I am a
lawyer, and I want to bring a toxic tort case, and I am
really -- I am looking for witnesses who have the same
kind of symptoms as my client had. And so I put out a
letter saying -- you know, have you have been exposed
and -- and tell me about it, so that I can find out if
you are a good witness, and -- you know, if you have, I
would also like to represent you. Would -- would that
count?
MR. GUERRA: Two points, Justice Kagan. The
first is that you have highlighted why this is such a
unique loophole for one very discrete class of lawyers.
Most -- toxic tort lawyers cannot go to a DMV and say, I
need the names and address of people.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I guess what I was
suggesting was that, if I was just asking for witnesses,
you would have to say that that was included by (b)(4);
is that right?
MR. GUERRA: I do. I do acknowledge that.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So, now, the court -- the
lawyer is saying, in addition to your help as a witness,
if you have the same symptoms -- you know, you can join
the suit.
MR. GUERRA: And I think that that's an
improper use. The Congress did not create this
authorization to go down to get the most sensitive
information in order to enable lawyers to find clients
more easily than they might otherwise find them. And so
investigation in anticipation of litigation is one use
that Congress authorized, and, as I have suggested, it's
a use that helps a lawyer discharge his or her
responsibility to a court.
Asking somebody --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't know why this
case doesn't fit that description because the -- the
position that the dealers were taking was you can't --
you ought to maintain a representative action. The
State has such an animal, it's not quite a class action,
representative action. To qualify, the group must be
numerous.
So how am I going to find out if it's
numerous, without asking these questions?
MR. GUERRA: You -- you can ask every
question up to, "Would you like to be a plaintiff in the
lawsuit," and that would be fine. That's the dividing
line.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Might that get the lawyer
into some difficulty with the Bar Association? They'll
look at this and say, look, we told you, if you are --
if you are seeking clients, then you have to put
advertising material. And a letter like that would tip
the recipient off to something is going on, I should
find out about it, and maybe I should join it.
MR. GUERRA: Justice Ginsburg, I think that
the -- the fact that that might trigger an obligation to
make a disclosure is not dispositive of whether it's a
solicitation. It would still be an objective factual
inquiry. And, if there were no indications in the
letter that someone is being invited to join a lawsuit,
then it would be permissible investigation.
I would like to point out, though, in terms
of why they needed this information, these lawyers filed
suits initially against dozens and, later, against
hundreds of defendants, where they had no client with
any claim against that defendant. Then they went to the
DMV, and they found over 30,000 names and addresses and
sent out what the Fourth Circuit determined were
solicitations, in order to get clients in the claims
they had already improperly asserted.
They did not need that information to
indicate the interest of the named plaintiffs they
already had. Those people had standing to sue --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then there is a whole
string of defendants who were doing the same thing --
the same allegedly unlawful practice, they couldn't
reach without getting additional plaintiffs.
MR. GUERRA: But their -- their clients have
no interest or need to reach those other dealerships.
They have a claim against the dealers with whom they
dealt --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But their client is a --
is a group. This -- this is not an individual action --
MR. GUERRA: That's true, Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The statute says sue for
the benefit of the whole.
MR. GUERRA: And -- and the South Carolina
State court said that each named individual could sue
for the benefit of everyone who dealt with the same
dealer that that plaintiff dealt with, so there is no
inconsistency. And, of course, even if they want to try
to affect the conduct of the -- of the dealerships, with
whom their clients never dealt with, they could still
get declaratory relief.
I would like to reserve the balance of my
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Clement?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The DPPA is an unusual statute. It directly
regulates the State's use of their own databases and
imposes massive civil liability and criminal penalties
for violations. It regulates it in a relatively
distinct way, which is it makes disclosures
presumptively unlawful, but then has 14 permissible use
provisions for which the State may, but does not must,
may disclose the information.
The scope of those 14 permissible use
provisions then becomes quite important for determining
whether or not a statute that was originally designed
primarily to regulate the commercial sale of DMV
information becomes intrusive into matters of
traditional State regulation or imposes massive
liability without the requisite clarity.
Now, I would have thought that it was fairly
clear that, but for a resort to the specific controls to
the general canon, that all of the activity at issue
here comes comfortably within the language of (b)(4)
because, if you look at that language, it is remarkably
broad. Congress uses the word "any" three times. It
uses "in connection with," which I think we all know is
a term of breadth. And then it uses "including" and
uses illustrative examples.
And I think the only thing that really
brings these examples together is Congress seems to be
covering the litigation process from cradle to grave.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One thing we also
know about the "in connection with" language is that we
have said, it can't really mean "in connection with," as
broadly as that -- the Morales case, I guess, it has to
have a more narrow meaning. Otherwise, everything would
be covered.
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, that's
exactly right. But the whole reason it has to have
some limit is because it's presumptively quite broad.
And if -- I mean, for those who look at legislative
history, the evolution of this provision, as it -- it
was changed twice in the legislative process.
And it started out that Congress was going
to have a permissible use just for use in litigation
involving motor vehicles. Then they dropped "motor
vehicles" and just said, "use in litigation." And then,
in the final iteration, they said, "use in connection
with litigation." So, clearly, they were trying to
broaden it.
Now, I -- I would be the first to admit that
there has to be some limit, and we certainly wouldn't
say, for example, that if lawyers -- you know, decide in
this case, well -- you know, we got this DMV information
for perfectly legitimate purposes involved in a
litigation, but, now, we are sitting on a gold mine, so
we should try to sell -- sell these same people floor
mats or wiper blades or something. I mean, of course,
they can't do that. So there are limits, but I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: Can they do this: Can --
can Lawyer Smith say -- you know, there are some
products in this State that I really suspect are not
being properly made, and I have probably a tort suit;
and the damages are awfully small; I would like to get
10 or 20,000 plaintiffs. I wonder if there is anybody
interested?
And then what he does is -- I have to write
them a letter, and I know where I can get the names and
addresses, from the DMV.
So he goes to the DMV and says, I would like
the names of everybody who -- I'd like all your names
and addresses, and I intend to write them all and send
them a letter and say, I suspect there is some fishy
business going on here in the dress manufacturers; would
you like to tell me about what happened? Is that
possible? Can they do that?
MR. CLEMENT: It may or may not, depending
on where you draw the line.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what do you --
MR. CLEMENT: But can I say something before
we talk about that? You know, if they are really trying
to go after the dress manufacturers --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. CLEMENT: -- they can go to the phone
book, they can go to the title records office, there is
lots of places they can go, if what they want is just
general information about people. And the only State
database that Congress has seen fit to regulate is DMV
databases.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, maybe they -- maybe
this is all passe. Maybe -- perhaps they could get this
information elsewhere, but I guess we have to deal with
this statute --
MR. CLEMENT: But, Justice Breyer, that's
part of the reason I'm pointing --
JUSTICE BREYER: So maybe what they want is
they want the names of all the people who've ever had a
car -- you know, because they think there's something
special about a car, and they think that's going to be
connected. But you see what I'm driving at.
MR. CLEMENT: I --
JUSTICE BREYER: You have no lawsuit, but
you are going to get one if you can, and you have
grounds for thinking that there is some suspicious
defendants, and what you are looking for is plaintiffs.
That's all.
MR. CLEMENT: Sure. And --
JUSTICE BREYER: All you are looking for is
plaintiffs. Now, can you, under this statute, go and
get the information, where all you are looking for is
plaintiffs for your lawsuit? So far, you know how many
plaintiffs you have? None.
MR. CLEMENT: I think, actually, the best
answer, at the end of the day, is it depends on whether
you are focused on a specific transaction, occurrence,
defect, so I think you might ultimately --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Is your answer
what I have in my mind -- I'm just repeating the same
question. I will do that -- I have some reason for
thinking there are a whole bunch of defendants here who
have done something wrong. All I am lacking is a
plaintiff, and what I want to do is get the names of
potential plaintiffs. It's the same question. I have
asked that three times. Either you can, in your view,
get it under this lawsuit, or you cannot.
MR. CLEMENT: I would say the best answer is
that you can. If you don't like that answer and you
want to draw the line in a different place --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I'm not liking or
disliking. All I want to know is --
MR. CLEMENT: Well, here -- here's the
thing -- is I think there is a couple of places you
could draw the line, and I think there is a line drawing
question any time you have language like "in connection
with." The first would be, okay, I'm lawyers, and I
want to get clients for litigation.
You could say, well, that's enough of an "in
connection" requirement, so you can use that. I would
say that that's probably on the other side of the line,
but you could just say that's close enough.
The other place you could draw the line is
when you have a specific transaction, occurrence,
defect, so that there be would be a difference. If I --
if I get this information and send people letters and
say, I see you bought a new car in the last two years --
you know, there is a lemon law in this State --
JUSTICE BREYER: Wait, wait. Now, that's
your -- now, that's the line. As to some of these
defendants, what he's saying is, these lawyers had no
client that my defendant hurt, none.
MR. CLEMENT: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: And as to some of these,
but not all the requests, all they were doing was they
were looking for somebody who bought a car from me. And
the reason they want that is to ask them what the
practice was, so they can get a plaintiff to do what the
complaint is about. So it's at least two -- or one or
two of the requests are like that.
MR. CLEMENT: No, they are not in the
following sense, Justice Breyer -- okay. Just to
understand kind of the chronology here, no request --
FOIA request is made at all here until my clients have
been approached by individuals who are complaining,
okay? No letter goes out until the litigation is
actually filed. Now, they want to say --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, now, repeat to
me -- I've got your point.
MR. CLEMENT: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: You have don't have to
prove it to me. All -- what I'm trying to get at is the
statement that I could write in an opinion that will
draw the boundary of this provision south of -- well,
the lawyer can go out when he has reason to believe that
a defendant has done something wrong and, to use a
pejorative, troll for clients.
MR. CLEMENT: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: I want it south of that,
and, now, you will tell me the words I can use that will
both help your client because they will cover this case,
but will also be south of that. What are --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is -- what is south?
I don't have a compass here.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: South means -- south means
it does not -- you can't just go and troll for clients,
simply because you think a defendant has done something
wrong, and you have no client.
MR. CLEMENT: If you want to draw the line
south of the trolling line, then I think what you would
say is this is an easy case because no communication
took place until my clients had a client. And then they
want to say, well, wait a second, your clients didn't
have a beef with the other dealers.
That's wrong. At all times in this suit,
they had a conspiracy claim against those other dealers.
So, even as to the individuals they already represented,
they had a beef with those dealers.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I want -- I want to
interrupt just -- just one moment. I may have misheard,
or you may have misspoke. I thought you said that no
requests were sent until the suit was filed, but the
request was -- the first FOIA request was June 23rd,
2005; the second FOIA request was August 24, 2006; and
this Herron suit was filed August 29, 2006.
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Kennedy --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So letters were sent
before the suit was filed.
MR. CLEMENT: A FOIA request was made before
the suit was filed. No letter to a potential
witness/client was sent until after it was filed.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the -- yes, but the
FOIA suit was made before the suit was filed.
MR. CLEMENT: Sure. And the FOIA -- the two
FOIA requests that were made beforehand were
specifically noted that they were in anticipation of
litigation, and they were investigating, as Justice
Ginsburg suggested, as they needed to under State law,
whether this was a widespread practice. And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose you -- you said
that you had a few people came and complained to the
lawyers, and then the lawyers wanted to see how
widespread this was. Suppose the lawyer herself bought
a car recently, and she got this administrative fee.
And, now, she has -- no clients have approached her, but
she would like to find out how many similarly situated
people there are, so she can get one of these
representative actions going.
Could -- on that basis, would it be
permissible to use -- would that come under the
litigation exception?
MR. CLEMENT: I think it would,
Justice Ginsburg, because I think that, when you are
trying to figure out where to draw the line, you look to
the words in the statute, which you know that
"investigation in anticipation of litigation" is
covered, and I would think that would fit comfortably
within "investigation in anticipation of litigation."
And the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It would be -- it
would be a very poor lawyer who couldn't figure out how
to write this -- the letter he's going to send out in a
way that it could not be said to be investigation, as
opposed to solicitation.
If you have a problem with the windshield
wipers, you just send a letter saying, there is this big
problem with windshield wipers. I am a lawyer, I'm
representing -- or I hope to represent, or I will
represent a group of people who have this problem, and I
think we will recover some damages. Would you like to
be a witness in that case?
That is in anticipation of litigation, but
it's also, quite plainly, an effort to solicit clients,
not just witnesses.
MR. CLEMENT: I couldn't agree more,
Mr. Chief Justice, which is why the line can't really be
between investigation in anticipation of litigation and
solicitation in anticipation of litigation because that
is too thin a line to make a $200 million difference.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So where -- where is
the line?
MR. CLEMENT: The line is whether or not it
is in anticipation of litigation or in connection with
litigation --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, that's the
words -- that's the words of the statute. I'm trying to
figure out what they mean. If you think there is some
type of solicitation that the statute was meant to
prohibit, how do you draw a line that prohibits that,
but allows the sort of thing that you want to do?
MR. CLEMENT: I think the way you do is you
would basically say that, when they are saying, "in
anticipation of litigation," they mean in anticipation
of a particular litigation, particular problem, and so
it's different --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That doesn't have to
be filed in court, that may just be --
MR. CLEMENT: Oh, absolutely not. I mean,
it seems to me --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- residing in the
brain of any lawyer who's looking for work.
MR. CLEMENT: No. They are -- they are
concerned about a particular thing, and I think the "in
anticipation of litigation" language, I mean, that's not
the only time you have ever seen it before --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not just that
language. It's "investigation in anticipation of
litigation." If I understand you correctly, you are
saying investigation includes solicitation.
MR. CLEMENT: It --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that your position?
MR. CLEMENT: I think it is, though I guess
my point would be, even if you can identify some
solicitation that is not investigation, as long as it's
in connection with litigation, it's in (b)(4), and then
I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So you are saying
that really this is a -- the way the statute works is it
says nobody can solicit, but for lawyers. And that's
not -- that makes more sense than you might think
because this was not a statute that was meant to
interfere with solicitation rules; it was meant to
interfere with commercial selling.
And -- and that's what this is about, and
there is a requirement, the requirement as to the
lawyer, in good faith, has to believe that, if he finds
a client, there's a case.
MR. CLEMENT: I agree with everything,
except the first thing you said --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
MR. CLEMENT: -- which is that this is a
prohibition on solicitation. If you look at the
structure of the statute, it says, presumptively, you
can't use this for anything. And then there are 14
permissions. And some of the permissions, like (b)(4),
are unconditional. If you come within (b)(4), you get
to use it.
Now, when you get to the end of the statute,
which is -- I respectfully suggest is not where you put
the core provisions, it's where you put the less favored
provisions -- then you have, in (b)(12), a conditional
permission that you can use it, but only if you get
consent.
Now, the thrust of their position is, if you
are in one of the unconditional permissions, but you
also are, presumptively, in one of the conditional
permissions, somehow, that condition from (b)(12) hops
over to (b)(12) -- (b)(4) and says --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- I don't think
that is fair. I think their position is, to harmonize
(b)(4) and (b)(12), you have to interpret investigation,
not to include solicitation, because, otherwise, you
have a conflict, that (b)(12) prohibits solicitation,
unless you have the consent; whereas, (b)(4), which
says, "investigation," does not require consent.
Now, the two exist in perfect harmony if
investigation does not include solicitation, but
there -- there is a discrepancy between the two if it
does include solicitation. And you have to say, well,
this is an exception from (b)(12).
MR. CLEMENT: No, you don't. There is no
discrepancy. A conditional -- like you get a green
light for use in litigation. You get a yellow light for
solicitation. If you have solicitation in connection
with litigation, you're covered by both, you take the
green light, there is no conflict.
And the premise for your discussion was we
have to harmonize. I would take issue with that. If
you look at these 14 exemptions, there is tons of
overlap in them. Congress is not telling you that each
of these 14 exceptions has an exclusive area, and you
have to find out which field is preempted by (1), (2),
(3), (4), (5), (6), (7). If you look at (b)(1) and
(b)(4), there is complete overlap.
One of the things I would take issue with is
my brother said that, well, (b)(4) is about the
tribunal. No, it's not. (B)(1) is principally about
the tribunal. (B)(1) is the provision that talks about
government actors and their functions, and it
specifically talks about torts.
JUSTICE ALITO: (B)(4) is about -- (b)(4) is
about very sensitive information. You're talking about
people's Social Security numbers. You're talking about
whether the person has a disability that they may not
want to disclose to the general public -- a person has
Parkinson's or -- or epilepsy or is diabetic.
And so you're just -- you're saying lawyers,
they -- they get all that stuff. Nobody else can, but
lawyers are a privileged class, and they get it.
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Alito, it is important
to recognize lawyers presumptively get it under Federal
law, but Federal law is only a floor. And so let's take
Social Security numbers, please, because, sure, as to
(b)(4) and (b)(1) and two other provisions, Congress
says, presumptively, you can get Social Security
numbers.
You know what -- you know what State -- the
State of South Carolina says? You never get Social
Security numbers, unless you have a court order. They
put that right in their State FOIA law. And so that is
just another example of how -- this is a Federal floor.
States can release this information. They don't have
to.
And, to Justice Breyer's point, it makes
sense that you would distinguish between an attorney who
is subject to the Bar discipline, is subject to
oversight and solicitation process, and treat that
solicitation differently from a solicitation by a direct
marketer, which is what (b)(12) is clearly aimed at, not
the practice of law.
JUSTICE BREYER: The difficulty that
Justice Alito brings out is -- I see your
interpretation, and I hope the other side will give me
some line because they have the same problem -- you
know, but in reverse. What is the line?
But your way, it doesn't become that much of
a privacy statute. It's sort of a misnomer. It's a --
it's a statute that is designed to prevent the
commercial use of your -- of this personal information.
It's not really a privacy statute.
MR. CLEMENT: It's certainly not an
all-purpose privacy statute. I do think that's fair.
And the principal thing that they were concerned about,
of course, is that you could look at somebody's license
plate and indiscriminately go down, pay a fee, and get
their home address.
Now, the one thing we know from (b)(4) is,
if a lawyer wants to do that exact thing, to serve
process, the lawyer gets to do it. You can get
somebody's license plate, go to the DMV, get an address,
and serve process. And they specifically preserve that.
So we know, as to the core of the statute, they treated
lawyers differently.
They were also concerned with direct
marketers taking this information and using it to market
people, but I don't think you'd lump lawyer solicitation
in anticipation of litigation, which may put some limit
on it, together with that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in anticipation of
litigation does come after service of process, and an
additional way to harmonize this statute with (12) is to
say that, after the suit has been filed, then -- in
anticipation of the litigation that that suit will
engender, then you may get the information. But you
didn't do that.
MR. CLEMENT: There's two problems with that
way of looking at the statute, I think I would
respectfully suggest, Justice Kennedy. One is we are
talking about items on an inclusive list, so even if you
took your premise that -- that the anticipation of
litigation in that list somehow is anticipation post
service of process -- which I want to come back to --
even if you took that position, they are just things on
an inclusive list. And so it wouldn't stop you from
saying that the ultimate test here is whether it's in
connection with litigation.
But I guess I would go back to that and say
I've never once thought that investigation in
anticipation of litigation was something that would take
place after service of process. I thought -- I mean --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's the way the
statute's written.
MR. CLEMENT: Yeah, but I don't think that
that was an intentional thing on the Court's part, that
we're going to name these and we're going to name them
in chronological order. If they tried to do it, I think
they got it wrong.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Clement, I'm not
sure I'm satisfied with the answer you gave to
Justice Scalia. He said, look, we've got to harmonize;
instead of general-specific, solicitation of clients is
different than investigation, and we just say they're
mutually exclusive. It is a little bit of a general and
specific. And that's proven by (b)(2) because, when
(b)(2) wants to permit solicitation, it expressly says
it, and they didn't expressly say, "solicitation," in
(4).
That's, I think, your adversary's main
argument. And I'm -- I'm still not sure I'm comfortable
with the answer you're giving. You're saying they're
independent, but why are they necessarily conflicting?
MR. CLEMENT: Last word "conflicting"?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: "Conflicting," exactly,
or -- or conflicting or overlapping.
MR. CLEMENT: I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess it's why are
they necessarily overlapping?
MR. CLEMENT: I think they are necessarily
overlapping, and I guess I would point to several
things. First of all, the language in (b)(2), I don't
think helps them nearly as much as they do. I think
that language in there about survey research, like much
language in many statutes, maybe avoids the marketers --
or the -- the motor vehicle marketers from having to be
here in a lawsuit because it removes all doubt about it.
But I think they would be covered, even without those
words.
But the point is -- you may say, well,
that's horrible, that's superfluous. But, no, if you
look at the way the statute operates generally, there's
lots of overlap. So this isn't a context where you want
to make sure that there is no overlap and everyone
operates independently.
I pointed to (b)(1) and (b)(4). They both
cover courts and litigation. If this Court uses DMV
information in its opinion, it's covered by (b)(1), it's
covered by (b)(4).
Or look at (b)(3). (B)(3) is a provision
that says, generally, companies can use DMV information
to verify somebody's identity. And then it specifically
says, and if somebody lies to you about their identity,
you can pursue legal remedies.
Okay. When you're pursuing that legal
remedy pursuant to (b)(3), you're also doing things in
connection with litigation pursuant to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's --
well, that's right. I understand your point, that this
is -- they're not separate categories, and there's no
overlap. But the word is "harmonizing," and the problem
is we have to give some limiting construction to "in
connection with."
And it seems to me that, if you are involved
in that endeavor, it does make sense to see how what
you're going to cover under the "in connection with"
relates to what's exempt under the other provisions.
MR. CLEMENT: But, as we've discussed,
Mr. Chief Justice, if you -- if you are saying you are
not going to apply the specific controls the general,
but you may be using a junior varsity version of it to
harmonize the statute --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Exactly.
MR. CLEMENT: -- as -- as we suggested in
our colloquy, I think the line between solicitation in
anticipation of litigation and investigation in
anticipation is far too thin a line to
make a $200 million difference.
And if I could direct the Court to page 93
of the Joint Appendix because that will show you just an
example of the postcard that is attached to these
letters. And the postcard does ask specifically, as
Justice Ginsburg was suggesting -- again, this is at 93
of the Joint Appendix -- it asks people to fill out
their name, address, the dealership they bought the car
from, the type of car, and then the administrative fee
or processing fee that was charged.
Now, I think it's common ground between the
parties that we get to ask about that administrative or
processing fee because that is investigation in
anticipation of the -- of the litigation. As I
understand where my clients arguably made a $200 million
mistake is by adding the line "I'm interested" -- "I am
interested in participating" signature, that crosses the
line into solicitation.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the reason -- the
reason that would be so -- I agree with you, that it's
very hard to figure out what the line is here between
the investigation and solicitation.
But that's where the solicitation thing
comes into play because what it -- the words that go the
other way, in my mind, that cut against you, is that
this card could have asked for Social Security numbers,
I guess.
MR. CLEMENT: Not under South Carolina law,
it absolutely couldn't.
JUSTICE BREYER: Not under South Carolina
law. All right. But then, under another State, under
this statute, they could. Now, that's helpful, that
answer.
But if -- when I think of asking for Social
Security numbers, I -- the words -- exaggerated, but
they go through my mind -- are "identity theft run
wild."
MR. CLEMENT: Absolutely.
JUSTICE BREYER: And, if that is a
concern -- if that is a concern, then, by reading this
as a solicitation -- you know, the pure case -- and
throwing the other exception to cover it, you force the
State to focus on it.
And the State then has to decide whether
they are going to permit or not permit the solicitor,
who -- you see, might -- might include the lawyer here,
to ask for the Social Security number, and better to
have them focus on that decision. That's the connection
that I see between the two.
MR. CLEMENT: But, Justice Breyer, let me
try to help you this way, which, is first of all, every
State in the country is focused on identity theft. And
the only circumstances in which I can imagine a State
ever giving Social Security numbers to a lawyer is if
there case was -- you know, these car dealers are
putting the Social Security numbers on the forms and we
are --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So are we -- do we
know -- by the way, that is helpful because do we know
under how many States' law the DMV would be forbidden to
give Social Security numbers?
MR. CLEMENT: I don't know that offhand. I
can get that to you in a supplemental letter. I just
know South Carolina, it says, right in their FOIA
statute, you can't get that information. And, like I
said, the only situation -- it's kind of --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there a Federal law
to that effect?
MR. CLEMENT: What's that?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There may be a Federal
law to that effect.
MR. CLEMENT: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: A separate one.
MR. CLEMENT: And it may be -- it may be
lawyers -- it may be the lawyers want to enforce that
Federal law against the dealers. And in enforcing that
Federal law against the dealers, they might ask for the
information. It's the same kind of thing.
The only circumstances in which I could
imagine a State would ever give a lawyer disability
information is if they were bringing an ADA suit. If
they were bringing an ADA suit against a dealer, you
might actually want them --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if they are --
if they were thinking they might bring an ADA suit --
MR. CLEMENT: Fair point --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your position does
create a special -- the point your friend makes -- it
does create a special exemption from a solicitation bar
for lawyers. Lawyers can solicitate -- you know, Acme
Products can't.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, sure, but they can --
they can solicit for their legal services in connection
with litigation. And that, I think, is different --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In connection with
something they hope might someday become litigation,
depending upon the answers they get.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, again, if you're going
to draw a line -- there's two things here -- you know,
there's -- there's an impulse to draw a line with "in
connection with," and, at some point, you will have to.
But I don't think solicitation provides the line because
the --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ask about your line,
Mr. Clement?
MR. CLEMENT: Sure.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Let me just see if I
understand it, and I'll give you two things --
MR. CLEMENT: Sure.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- and I think one falls on
one side of your line --
MR. CLEMENT: Yeah.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- and the other falls on
the other, but this is just to clarify where your line
is.
One is -- you know, I'm a lawyer, have you
ever been in a car accident lately? If you have,
contact me, and I would love to represent you. That --
the other is, I'm a lawyer, I think that there's a -- a
real -- I'm -- I'm bringing a lawsuit about these red
light cameras and saying that they're unlawful, and
would you like to join me in that litigation?
Am I right to think that the first falls on
one side of the line, it's not enough, there's no
litigation there; and the seconds falls on the other
side, according to you?
MR. CLEMENT: I think that's right, Justice
Kagan. And I just want to emphasize that my -- my
clients fall on the other side of even yet another line,
which is they already had clients before they asked DMV
anything.
right?
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- is a contemplated
litigation.
litigation.
MR. CLEMENT: Exactly. Or to put -- you
know, to give just another sort of example, this seems
to be what clearly surely should be covered is, okay, I
understand there's a defect with the particular make and
model of a car. I've used the DMV records, consistent
with State law, to get access to the fact that you've
bought one of these cars; do you want to join the suit?
I don't think there's anything nefarious
with that. There's certainly nothing --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would you want to
start the suit? It doesn't matter in your position.
MR. CLEMENT: Yeah, that's -- that's not my
case because this -- these people came to us before we
did anything. But I don't think there's anything wrong
with that, Your Honor. And, yes, you might say it's
solicitation, but I don't think, if you look at these
provisions, that you would interpret them that way when
they're all permissive uses. And --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if Congress wanted to
draw the line between possible -- you know, some unknown
lawsuit and an actual lawsuit that's in the mind of the
lawyer, why did it use the term "litigation," when it
had already used earlier, in the same subsection,
"proceeding," civil, criminal, administrative, or
arbitral proceeding?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Alito, I think
when it uses "in anticipation of litigation," it
actually wants to cover activity that takes place before
there's an actual proceeding. And what I was going to
say is -- you know, that language doesn't come out of
the ether. I mean, that's the language you use in
attorney work product.
And, as I understand it -- I've looked into
this a little bit, the basic rule there is you
distinguish between litigation in the abstract and the
point at which you've identified a particular
transaction, occurrence, defect. And, at that point, if
you're doing something, it's in -- it's in anticipation
of litigation.
The one other point I haven't yet made,
which is, to the extent you're going to resort to the
specific controls of the general, I think it is worth
noting that this would be the first time, that I'm aware
of, that the Court would ever have applied that canon to
impose this kind of massive civil liability and even
potentially criminal liability.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know which is
specific and which is general. I mean, that's the
problem I have with that.
MR. CLEMENT: I agree, and I think that's
the best reason why the canon doesn't work. These are
equally specific. And, in the case of an overlap
between the two that you have here -- and you have in
(b)(1) and (b)(4) and (b)(3) and (b)(4) -- you just say,
okay, Congress thought it was okay, and you just call it
a day.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But what you say,
Mr. Clement, that you and your varsity version of the --
which is stronger than the other one is --
MR. CLEMENT: Paradoxically.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- is something like, if
(b)(4) is hard, we have to draw a line someplace, we can
look to (b)(12) as expressing some kind of concern that
we can use to draw that line.
MR. CLEMENT: Yeah. And the reason I think
that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: It's not a conflict, we
don't have to -- you know, it's not inconsistent, it's
just this is an expression of what Congress was thinking
about, we're going to use it as a clue.
MR. CLEMENT: Right. But the line-drawing
problem is really drawing the line about "in connection
with." The line-drawing problem -- drawing the line
between solicitation in anticipation of litigation and
investigation in -- in anticipation of litigation just
doesn't work. They're two sides of the same coin.
As Justice Ginsburg pointed out, if my
clients had sent a letter that nobody objects to, that
says, we're bringing a lawsuit, we think you may have
been charged the same kind of fee, I think what the
State Bar would have said -- the natural next question
for anybody getting that letter is, will you represent
me? And precisely because of that, we want you -- we
want to treat this like it's solicitation, and we want
to add these additional bells and whistles.
And part of the irony here is, I think, the
things that make our letter look most like it's
advertisement or solicitation are the things that are
required by the State Bar.
And, keep in mind, that's another reason why
treating attorney solicitation differently from general
solicitation makes perfect sense because they're subject
to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand what
you're saying. You're saying the State Bar requirements
would have required you to say, are you interested in
joining the lawsuit?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, and -- they would --
it's so natural that somebody will say, can I join your
lawsuit --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. CLEMENT: -- that they would require all
the language that says, you have alternatives, other
people can -- can -- can hire you.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's because --
that's because the State is allowing solicitation, and
it puts certain conditions on what your solicitation --
MR. CLEMENT: Exactly.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You point to page 94, you
say, oh, it's just the last line, the whole thrust of
the letter was solicitation. You have to be fair about
that.
MR. CLEMENT: Exactly.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You have to be fair about
that.
MR. CLEMENT: And, Justice Scalia, the last
thing you can infer from the statute is that Congress
wanted, for the first time ever, get in the business of
managing attorney solicitation, a subject they'd always
left to the States. And --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I just want to,
before you leave, because -- in response to
Justice Kagan, I think you've changed positions a little
bit. You started by saying there were three ways to
draw a line. Getting clients is okay; getting clients
is okay if you get a specific treatment, occurrence, or
defect. And you didn't mention what the third was.
So what's your preferred reading?
MR. CLEMENT: My -- my preferred reading is
that transaction, occurrence, defect -- which I took her
red light camera to be an example of a particular
identified defect. But I do want to emphasize, before I
sit down -- it's the last thing I'll emphasize, that my
case is a little bit better because we had a client and
a specific defect before anything happened.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Guerra, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH R. GUERRA
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. GUERRA: Thank you.
First of all, I'd just like to point out
that the consequence of Respondent's argument is that --
is they gave the example of going to get the license
plate and then getting the name and address to serve
process.
But, on their theory, you can also go down
and -- you can witness an accident on the side of the
road, you can go down to DMV, get the name and
license -- use the license plate to get the name and
address and send a solicitation letter. And that is
trolling.
And I think everybody -- as I understand it,
the line seems to be everybody wants it somewhere south
of trolling. And yet --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why don't you give us
the line that's north?
(Laughter.)
MR. GUERRA: My line -- my line --
JUSTICE SCALIA: North of trolling?
JUSTICE BREYER: No, not north of trolling,
but you understand the point. What's your line?
MR. GUERRA: Our line is solicitation,
Justice Breyer, and there are two ways to get that.
There is the -- we -- I submit, is the strong textual
evidence in (b)(2), that Congress did, in fact,
understand that the consent requirement governs all bulk
solicitation or surveys or marketing, and it had to give
an explicit override in (b)(2) because, otherwise,
(b)(12) would have restricted the ability to do
nonconsent --
JUSTICE BREYER: In the middle of the -- in
the middle of the class action, several of the clients,
the only ones who brought -- who bought the cars --
which there is loads of evidence they're defective, from
Dealer Smith, died, and they want to see if they can
find three others, so they don't have to dismiss them
from the class, they're almost certain -- and has loads
of evidence there is the -- you know, the harm caused by
the defendant. They are missing a client. They died.
And so can they get it then?
MR. GUERRA: I'm not sure I understand the
question.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can they go to the board
and say, look, Dealer Smith here -- we're in the middle
of the case, we're finished with discovery. We're
just -- he just died and --
MR. GUERRA: Are you talking about --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- we want to find three
others, and I'm sure there's loads of evidence here that
there were a hundred thousand others, who bought this
defective thing from this defendant, we want to find out
the names and addresses. Can they get it or not?
MR. GUERRA: For purposes of soliciting new
class representatives, I think not.
JUSTICE BREYER: Not.
MR. GUERRA: And I think -- and there are
loads of ways to find class representatives without
going to DMVs. And, in fact, that's what most class
action lawyers have to do, is advertise in one fashion
or another. So that's not, to my mind, in Congress's
conclusion.
But I would just point out that, according
to Respondents, the phrase "survey research" is
surplusage, and this Court says that's -- you're not
supposed to reach that conclusion, if you can avoid it,
and you can avoid it by understanding it to be the
meaning -- the meaning -- its effect is to override the
consent requirement, so that -- that you can do
commercial bulk surveys in (b)(2), which would otherwise
require consent as a -- as a consequence of (b)(12).
And then there is the so-called "junior
varsity" harmonization basis for reaching solicitation.
And I would point out that Respondents are saying, it
can't be that you -- that some -- certain statements in
a letter means you crossed the line into solicitation
and that that has all kinds of massive civil liability
consequences.
Congress used the word "solicitation" in
this statute. Congress meant to draw some kind of line
around solicitation. Now, admittedly, we're saying that
the harmonization means that that's the same line you
would draw in (b)(4). But it's not inconceivable to
think that Congress was -- was drawing a line at
solicitation and that liability would flow, depending
upon whether somebody crossed it or not.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Guerra, it didn't
draw the line at solicitation in (b)(4), and the
advantage of Mr. Clement's argument is that the line
that he sets up actually has a textual basis in (b)(4)
because it focuses on words like "what is a litigation,"
and "what is a proceeding," and "are we there yet." And
that seems to be what the language of (b)(4) indicates.
MR. GUERRA: Your Honor, our point is --
sort of, if you step back, and you -- and this is the
question for the harmonization purpose: (b)(4) covers
solicitation only because of the indeterminacy of the
phrase "in connection with." Without that language,
there's no basis for saying (b)(4) is authorizing
lawyers' solicitations. So it is, I would submit, at
the periphery of the authorization that (b)(4) provides.
(B)(12) solicitation is at the core of what
that provision is about and that -- the -- the mass
marketing of using DMV information is one of the
fundamental problems Congress was addressing.
And I just think it's implausible to
conclude that the -- at the periphery concept in
(b)(4) should take precedence over the core function of
(b)(12).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:17 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
63:16 22:20 26:4 32:12 45:8,19 21:24 32:9 9:21 10:10
administrative 51:21 24:4,21 25:5 19:1,1,5,12,21
12:21 admit 7:12 11:5,18,23 aspect 11:21 23:10 24:5
22:10 29:11 12:23 17:13 asserted 26:7 28:8 39:4,24
53:20 admittedly 62:9 20:13,16,24 Association 39:25 40:5,11
adversary's 24:17 35:25 assume 3:19 40:17,18,24
advertise 61:13 37:16,17,22 assuming 10:17 41:17,20,20
25:14 48:13 54:16 58:8 46:21,22,22
advising 9:24 anybody 29:25 authorization 55:18,18 56:1
25:1,2 affect 6:6 9:25 56:21 6:18 7:4 24:14 56:2 60:4,7,8
60:11 27:4 anymore 21:13 63:4 61:23,24 62:11
agency 12:17 apologize 14:1 authorize 6:9,17 62:16,18,21,24
55:14 appears 4:10 24:18 44:21 62:23
15:15 8:10,16 9:2 applied 55:8 19:15 21:15 balance 27:7
19:4 20:2 42:23 applies 4:16 23:10 bar 25:11 42:20
54:17 aiming 13:7 apply 3:22 4:24 authorizing 51:13 56:20
43:1 54:8,15 approached available 8:13 23:8
all-purpose 19:19 beef 35:3,7
argument 1:12 B beginning 15:1
26:14 alternatives 2:2,5,8 3:4,6 b 3:25 4:16 5:13 begins 21:8
56:24 57:17 4:15 7:14 12:1 5:25 6:15,19 behalf 1:15,17
27:12 brings 28:15 28:20 29:14 clarify 52:13 33:10 34:14,22
43:1 34:14,25 37:10 clarity 28:4 35:1 39:16
39:15 28:10,25 50:4 54:2 10:22 11:6 clients 10:24
27:1 brother 41:15 categories 47:7 23:25 25:1 25:13 26:6,15
bulk 3:11 4:1,17 certain 57:21 61:8,11,12 33:22 34:10,20
6:3,17,20 9:13 certainly 29:12 6:13 19:15 37:12 45:10
30:9 58:7 15:6 clearly 12:19 clue 56:9
33:5,14 8:26 17:12,22 27:13 28:23 colloquy 47:22
48:7 C 17:25 18:2 30:12,15,19 come 10:9 12:13
60:12 C 2:1 3:1 27:9,13 28:17 31:4,11,17,23 15:23 20:14
call 15:4,23 28:23 36:24 32:11,16 33:11 36:14 39:25
55:15 chronological 39:1,17,20 comfortably
capacities 17:9 11:15,21 45:5 40:25 42:4 28:8 36:21
33:7 18:10 chronology 43:10 44:10 commercial
34:1 car 10:5 13:22 33:21 45:2,7,21,24 3:25 4:10 5:8
14:22 15:5,11 Circuit 14:18 46:2 47:15,21 5:17,24 6:17
42:25 15:17 22:21 26:5 49:2,12,24 12:7,22 13:9
49:4,13 31:8,9 33:5,14 circumstance 50:11,18,21,23 16:6,12 17:9
50:7 36:8 48:7,8 10:19 51:10,16,22 18:13,16 19:4
60:2 50:4 52:16 circumstances 52:4,5,8,11 28:1 39:12
61:2 53:19 50:2 51:3 53:1,12,15 43:8 61:23
card 48:25 civil 12:15 27:17 54:1,15 55:14 common 48:10
51:9 cars 53:21 60:12 26:17 35:5 58:18 46:23
52:19 11:17 22:1,16 17:18 23:7,8 client 10:13 6:17
23:15 24:23 26:6 23:17 26:2,19 compass 34:17
62:8,12 63:8 correctly 38:22 cut 48:24 demonstrating
61:14 58:10,25 63:13 D depending
connection 5:20 country 50:1 27:11 62:13
20:2 21:14,16 29:18 43:13 database 30:23 describing 21:5
28:18,19 29:8 12:17 13:16,16 27:16 30:24 24:23
39:4 41:3 17:10,15,24 deal 31:2 13:7 27:25
56:2 51:17,19,25 26:25 27:14 60:14,23 15:18
38:17 conscious 9:19 46:19 48:1 24:24 26:17 determining
consent 3:10,12 55:8 61:18 35:3,5,7 50:4 14:14 27:24
6:14 7:10 8:3 16:16 18:12 dealership 48:7 diabetic 41:25
40:19 60:5 Court's 45:3 26:16 27:4 difference 10:20
41:1 59:6 61:24 49:16 54:17 decide 18:25 47:25
consistent 53:19 41:4 46:10,20 declaratory 51:18
construction covering 6:9 defect 32:1 33:3 42:22 43:22
56:6 construed 4:13 covers 6:9 62:24 58:16,19,21,24 difficulty 25:11
15:24 create 3:16,18 61:5 direct 4:20 8:13
5:12,14 contemplated creates 3:15 33:10 34:9,21 43:23 48:1
6:1 7:8 9:18 53:10,13 creating 6:2 60:18 61:5 directly 27:15
9:3,4,9,15 context 46:15 criminal 12:15 defendants disability 9:6
13:10 contrast 9:3 27:17 54:13 14:13 26:2,12 19:15 23:8
19:2,12 controls 28:6 55:10 31:15 32:5 41:23 51:4
28:10 47:17 55:6 critical 11:8 33:9 discharge 24:19
29:4 core 3:13 8:9,16 12:12 15:21 define 7:15 discharging
41:9 8:16,24 9:1,2 crossed 62:4,14 demonstrated 17:16
54:8 40:4 43:21 crosses 48:16 20:1 discipline 42:20
56:8 63:5,11 crystal-clear demonstrates disclose 27:22
13:7 27:15 17:17 22:7 60:7 38:11 44:6
34:7,23 36:18 epilepsy 41:25 6:14 7:10 8:3 find 6:17,18 7:3
54:9 56:1,3 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 expression 56:8 23:19 24:15,16
41:1 62:16 essence 10:22 45:15 41:11 60:15
31:10 evidence 9:15 5:16 9:14 13:1 22:19
drunk 4:25 evolution 29:2 61:12 39:18 46:4
14:2 E 53:15 57:22 51:10 57:25 fit 7:18,19,20
17:2 E 2:1 3:1,1 58:2 58:3 24:23 30:23
earlier 21:17 exaggerated fairly 28:5 36:21
54:24 easily 24:16 example 5:5 fall 53:3 floor 29:17 42:6
10:14 effort 37:12 21:11 28:13,15 favored 40:4 focused 11:11
19:3,13 either 13:3 32:9 exception 3:15 Federal 12:16 31:25 50:1
24:1 emphasize 53:2 3:15,17,19,22 42:5,6,15 focuses 62:19
28:1 58:21,22 5:17 6:2 36:15 50:16,19,25 focusing 4:2
30:4,5 enable 16:15,16 40:24 49:16 51:1 FOIA 33:22
43:19 24:15 exceptions 7:16 fee 10:5 14:23 35:12,13,18,22
50:9 endeavor 47:12 22:8 41:10 15:17 36:8 35:23,24 42:14
59:12 enforce 12:4 exclusive 41:10 43:14 48:8,9 50:13
50:24 45:12 48:12 56:19 follow 20:13
19:9,24 engage 6:3 9:13 exempt 47:14 field 41:11 followed 23:1
13:15 19:4 exemption figure 36:18,25 following 33:20
47:3 10:19 15:14 exemptions 41:8 figured 18:20 forbidden 50:9
17:6 18:6 exist 40:20 file 14:3 17:18 force 8:8 49:16
go 10:14 14:7,17 16:14,22 17:3 highly 9:12 38:23
63:11 30:19,20,21 20:22 21:3,9 29:2 28:12
43:14,19 44:21 22:25 23:14,23 Honor 3:23 9:22 44:18
10:20 59:10,12 60:22 25:17 26:15,21 15:21 17:3 62:11
17:8 63:8 goal 11:12 26:24 59:1,2,4 54:4 62:22 incongruous
30:5 33:24 61:1,7,10 51:20 inconsistency
30:22 47:13,17 49:19 49:1 hurt 33:10 45:20
45:12 51:22 54:18 independently
55:6,12 55:5 56:9 59:7 H I 46:17
61:12 happened 30:10 identified 54:25 indeterminacy
good 23:20 hard 8:22 18:17 identify 9:21 indicate 26:9
governed 5:25 harm 60:17 identity 46:24 indicates 7:8
58:14,14 government 62:1,10,24 50:1 indications
41:18 harmonize ilk 23:9 25:21
7:2 9:20 4:18 5:16 60:5 44:5 45:9 28:13 43:14
grant 9:11 47:19 imagine 50:2 individual 26:20
14:5 grave 28:16 harmonizing 51:4 26:25
green 41:1,5 47:8 implausible 9:8 individuals 13:8
16:3 21:1 ground 48:10 harmony 40:20 21:13 63:9 33:23 35:6
24:22 grounds 31:14 hats 18:11 import 8:1 industry 6:2
26:11 group 14:16 health 5:1 important 27:24 infer 58:6
25:2 26:20 hear 3:3 15:1 42:4 information
48:5 37:8 heightened impose 55:9 3:11 4:1,4,20
Guerra 1:15 2:3 23:12 imposes 27:17 5:20,25 8:13
22:20 4:7,12 5:4 6:23 34:14 49:25 improper 24:13 9:16 10:3 12:3
47:9 7:2,11,24 8:26 helped 11:15 improperly 26:7 12:5 13:9,12
51:4 9:22 10:7,11 helpful 49:6 impulse 51:24 13:21 15:14
53:16 11:1,7,9,25 50:8 include 40:16,21 19:3,6,9,13,16
60:6 12:8,14,20 helps 24:19 46:5 40:23 49:20 19:24 21:20
12:23 13:4,15 8:26 9:20 10:2 59:24 60:2,10 L
25:25 17:13 18:7 10:9,11,21 60:22 61:2,9 lacking 32:6
27:22 20:12,16 21:6 11:1,5,8,9,14 62:15 63:13 language 5:13
29:14 24:17 25:23 12:1,8,18 13:2 justify 14:15 19:20 28:8,9
31:2,20 36:20,22 37:2 13:6,18,25 28:18 32:19
41:21 37:16 38:21,23 14:5,14,21,24 K
46:4
43:8,24 39:3 40:15,19 15:2,16,22 Kagan 7:11,24 46:6,7 54:19
46:20,23 40:21 44:22 16:2,3,8,11,22 12:8,18 16:22 54:20 57:17
51:2,5 45:11 47:23 17:12,22,25 18:14,24 23:14 62:21 63:1
48:12,21 56:14 18:2,14,24 23:23 24:3,8 lately 52:16
involved 29:15 24:8,22 25:10 Kennedy 10:21 50:9,16,20,25
involving 29:6 26:21,22 27:9 12:1 13:2,6 lawsuit 10:18
items 8:25 44:13 31:12,18 32:2 44:12,25 57:19 32:10 46:9
30:1 January 1:9 35:8,15,16,21 33:21 50:15 15:10,14,16
57:10 job 11:13 12:4 36:1,4,17,24 51:2 55:9 56:2 16:13 17:23
24:10 25:16,22 39:6,19 40:13 know 6:4 9:1 29:21 34:8
40:15 57:13 42:25 43:1 13:10 19:12 38:15 39:15
joining 15:3 44:3,12,25 20:20 21:20 43:17,18,25
18:19 43:2 Joint 48:2,6 47:5,16,20 24:22 28:11,18 51:4 52:15,18
judgment 13:17 50:16,19,22 31:21 32:15 9:11,16 10:16
14:11 junior 47:18 53:24 54:8,15 50:4,8,8,11,13 18:10 19:7,15
23:7 61:25 55:11,21,25 51:14,23 52:15 22:10 23:5,13
Justice 3:3,8,18 56:6,16 57:8 53:16 54:9,19 23:25 24:1,15
11:3 5:4 6:21,24 7:2 58:3,5,10,12 60:17 32:20 33:9
12:11 7:11,24 8:22 58:25 59:19,23 36:6,6 39:8
43:22 43:3,4 47:22 look 4:18 5:18 6:10 28:2 N
51:14 47:24 48:15,17 6:16 7:6,15 mean 4:9 7:13 N 2:1,1 3:1
61:13 48:20 51:23,24 17:4 25:12,12 8:26 17:19 name 21:24 45:4
52:1,3,10,13 28:9 29:1 18:15,18,22 45:4 48:7 59:8
59:22,22,25 60:23 meaning 28:21 24:2 26:4 30:3
29:1,3 62:12,16,17 looking 23:16 means 6:5 11:17 32:7 61:6
30:3 list 7:16 8:25 loophole 23:25 39:10,11 62:8 nearly 46:5
33:24 14:9,13 44:13 lots 30:21 46:15 medical 9:6 necessarily 21:1
37:1,5 44:15,18 love 52:17 19:16 23:8 45:20 46:1,2
56:17,21 literally 21:15 lump 43:25 members 9:21 necessary 7:9
59:14 litigation 3:14 mention 19:7 need 8:4,5 13:13
6:22,25 7:1 M 58:16 17:21 22:23
35:16 12:23 16:18 maintain 24:25 MICHAEL 1:6 needed 25:25
17:14 18:6 making 8:13 middle 60:10,11 36:2
55:9,10 22:6,12 24:17 manufacturers 47:25 48:14 never 20:22 27:5
28:16 29:5,7,9 30:9,17 mind 32:3 48:24 42:12 44:22
33:24 36:1,15 3:4 57:4 61:14 noncommercial
52:20 38:7,8,18,22 19:25 43:24 20:9 non-consensual
39:4 41:2,4 marketer 42:23 minutes 59:1 19:14
44:1 47:4,23 48:13 marketing 4:2,6 missing 60:18 noscitur 4:14
17:1 54:11,16,24 massive 27:17 model 53:19 16:4,5,15
32:13,18 54:23 58:12,23 mats 29:18 6:12 29:6,6 21:23 22:6
33:1 loads 60:13,16 matter 1:11 7:19 46:8 49:21
34:23,24 61:3,11 10:16 21:16 multiple 18:10 numbers 9:7
37:15,18 local 12:17 53:25 63:16 mutually 45:12 41:22 42:7,10
38:3 long 39:3 matters 5:21 42:13 48:25
50:3,5,10 11:21 13:16 43:14 places 30:21 practice 26:13
24:15 26:6 penalties 27:17 plainly 37:12 42:24
45:5 pending 9:25 plaintiff 14:8 precedence
46:15,16 47:8 33:4 36:5,11 31:15,19,21,22 58:18
33:2 override 7:7 8:3 people's 41:22 play 48:23 preparing 18:3
58:15,19 60:7 61:21 perfect 40:20 please 3:9 15:4 preserve 43:20
18:4 oversight 42:21 periphery 63:4 17:3 21:10 42:5,9
63:10 25:24 34:2 pretty 22:22,23
18:12 P 3:1 15:15 25:23 46:3,12 47:6 prevent 43:7
15:19 Paradoxically permission 40:6 57:23 59:5,25 principal 43:12
32:20 55:24 permissions 61:16 62:2,22 principally
34:1 Parkinson's 5:15 39:24,24 pointed 46:18 41:16
39:6 47:2 41:25 40:9,11 56:16 principle 4:14
53:17 part 12:12 19:1 permissive 54:7 pointing 31:5 4:16
58:14 31:5 45:3 permit 21:19,21 points 22:25 prior 13:19
56:25 45:14 49:19,19 23:23 privacy 43:6,9
particularly 1:16 2:4,10 3:7 possible 10:18 13:8 37:4,6,8
parties 48:11 phone 30:19 post 44:15 55:13 56:11,12
37:3 passe 31:1 21:6,14 61:17 potential 10:13 8:11 9:2 44:10
27:11 27:11 33:1 35:1 potentially 12:16 16:1
public 41:24 readily 7:25 remaining 59:1 reserve 27:7
9:10 49:14 58:17,18 28:9 resolve 8:18
16:17 14:13 realize 16:21 remedy 47:3 respect 4:15 5:9
purchaser 10:4 really 5:12 removes 46:9 7:25 18:1
29:3 purchasers 23:16 28:14,19 render 13:17 respectfully
43:18,20 19:23 29:22 30:16 16:16 40:3 44:12
pure 49:15 37:15 39:7 repeat 34:1 Respondents
purpose 62:24 43:9 56:11 repeatedly 17:7 1:18 2:7 11:22
pursuant 22:16 31:5 32:4 represent 18:11 62:2
pursuing 47:2 56:4 57:4 representative response 3:13
40:3,4 42:14 19:14 25:2 36:12 responsibility
putting 50:5 receives 15:4 represented restriction 8:16
recognize 9:20 representing reverse 43:4
25:2 18:10 19:23 22:15 33:21,22 13:24 23:4
56:20 60:21 regulate 28:1 57:16 61:24 53:1,8 56:10
quite 7:13 25:1 regulation 28:3 3:12,25 5:16 ROBERTS 3:3
18:23 37:12 relation 16:6 32:23 39:14,14 18:2 27:9
23:11 relationship 60:5 61:22 28:17 36:24
34:7 R 16:12 22:6 requirements 37:19,24 38:10
46:22 R 1:15 2:3,9 3:1 relatively 27:18 16:17 57:9 38:14 47:5,20
3:6 59:2 release 22:8 requires 3:10 51:8,11,19
8:10 9:4 61:19 reliance 21:12 research 3:19,20 63:13
40:4 reaching 62:1 relief 27:6 5:21,22,23 6:5 rule 17:19 54:23
42:8 read 21:15 22:1 rely 8:7 6:10,12,12 7:4 ruled 14:18
54:6 22:2,18 relying 4:15 46:6 61:17 rules 5:8 39:11
12:22 Social 9:6 21:23 someday 51:20 26:25 27:21
17:23 37:1,5 59:14 sociis 4:14 43:6 53:16 49:18 50:1,2
24:9 sense 8:10 9:1 solely 8:7 62:23 51:4 53:20
37:5 38:6 33:20 39:9 solicit 16:15 Sotomayor 3:18 56:20 57:3,9
39:6 42:19 47:12 19:17 37:12 4:5,8,9,13,24 57:20
44:19 57:6 39:8 51:17 5:4 15:16,22 statement 34:6
47:16 sensibly 4:13 solicitate 51:14 16:2,8,11 statements 62:3
57:9,9 sensitive 8:20 solicitation 3:12 21:17,25 22:4 States 1:1,12
62:2,9 9:5,12 19:9 4:2,17 5:9 6:19 22:13,18,25 4:25 22:7
24:14 41:21 6:20 7:7 9:13 45:7,22,25 42:16 50:9
15:6 35:11,16,20 10:19 13:3,9 58:10 State's 27:16
20:11 56:17 14:4 25:20 sounded 5:5,6 status 9:6 19:16
26:22 separate 47:7 37:3,17 38:2 sounds 21:7 23:9
39:8,22 50:22 38:23 39:3,11 south 26:24 34:7 statute 4:3,13,19
42:9 serve 43:17,20 39:21 40:16,17 34:12,15,16,19 7:12 8:10,17
45:14 59:8 40:21,23 41:3 34:19,24 42:12 9:11 12:13
50:13 service 11:16,19 41:3 42:21,22 49:2,4 50:13 18:20,21 19:2
57:17 11:24 20:11,23 42:22 43:25 59:17 20:5,11 22:3
20:25 44:4,16 45:10,14,15 so-called 61:25 22:17 26:22
40:13 services 51:17 48:22 49:15 special 31:9 31:19 36:19
53:7 set 21:18 51:13 52:1 51:12,13 37:25 38:2
57:8,15 sets 62:18 54:5 56:13,23 specific 7:17 39:7,10,22
59:23 show 48:2 57:2,5,6,20,21 22:22 28:6 40:2 43:6,7,9
side 32:24 43:2 62:1,4,7,9,13 53:13 55:6,12 47:19 49:6
41:22 sides 56:15 14:19 19:14 35:25 41:19 statutes 46:7
signature 48:16 26:6 63:3 43:20 46:24 statute's 45:1
49:9,21 similarly 36:10 solicited 3:21 48:4 step 62:23
simply 9:8 10:17 soliciting 16:20 specified 17:5 stop 13:10 19:13
22:19 sit 58:22 solicitor 49:19 standing 26:10 string 26:12
33:5 sitting 29:16 somebody 14:23 start 53:25 strong 60:3
43:1 situated 36:10 15:4 17:13 started 11:17 stronger 55:23
57:6 5:24 6:4,12 7:4 61:5 60:15 61:2 36:18 37:25
46:6 61:17 things 4:17 throwing 49:16 twice 29:3
60:3 suspect 29:22 46:4 47:3 time 3:21 27:8 33:17,18 35:23
30:8 51:23 52:7 32:19 38:19 40:20,22 42:8
symptoms 23:17 think 4:12 5:6 times 18:5 28:10 51:23 52:7
8:5 23:3 10:13,14 11:10 tip 25:14 60:2
T 11:10,14,25 title 30:20 type 6:3 38:2
talk 20:9 30:16 29:19 31:8,9 tort 23:15 24:1 32:1
47:21 23:4 41:21,22 32:18 34:21,24 torts 41:19 unconditional
talks 41:17,19 37:9 38:1,5,17 traditional 28:3 underlying 4:19
29:23 tell 15:6 18:22 40:14 43:11,25 31:25 33:2 16:23 18:15
23:19 30:10 44:11 45:2,5 55:1 58:19 20:3 21:24
34:13 45:17,24 46:2 treat 42:21 33:21 38:22
51:5,6,9 telling 41:9 46:5,5,10 56:23 47:6 48:14
term 28:12 47:22 48:10 treated 43:21 52:7 53:18
test 44:19 53:1,22 54:3,5 tribunal 41:16 60:20
62:18 56:4,18,19,25 tribunals 11:12 20:25 61:20
14:21 58:25 59:4 61:8,10 62:12 13:13 19:7 13:19 20:23
36:4,7 63:13 63:9 tried 45:5 underwriting
35:23 they'd 58:8 third 58:16 59:15,18,23,24 23:25
45:8,18 thin 37:18 47:24 thought 13:20 true 11:20 18:7 United 1:1,12
51:16 thing 15:23 28:5 35:10 21:25 26:21 university 3:19
60:20 18:25 26:12 44:22,24 55:19 truly 19:21 unknown 54:9
28:14,17 32:17 thousand 61:4 try 27:3 29:17 unlawful 26:13
52:20 34:23 35:2,8,8 windshield 37:4 $200 37:18 4
6:3,17 50:24 51:7 wipers 37:5,6 1
10:10
53:2,21,24 witness 23:20 1 8:23,24 41:11 11:10 12:2,5,9
19:6,6,8 56:22,23,23 24:9 37:10 41:12,16,17 12:12 17:1,2
22:5 58:10,21 60:14 59:11 42:8 46:18,20 18:8 19:1,5
61:2,5 witnesses 23:16 55:18 20:7,8,9 22:9
wanted 3:20 7:8 24:4 37:13 10 19:21 21:11 22:16 23:10
13:10,11 36:6 witness/client 29:25 24:5 28:8 39:4
34:9,13 54:8 58:7 35:20 11 17:19 39:24,25 40:12
39:23 wants 43:17 wonder 29:25 11:16 1:13 3:2 40:15,18 41:12
41:2 45:14 54:17 word 28:10 12 3:25 5:25 41:13,15,20,20
46:23 59:17 45:21 47:8 6:15 7:5,10,15 42:8 43:16
56:3 Washington 1:8 62:7 7:23 8:3,4,9,23 45:16 46:18,21
59:13 1:15,17 words 7:13 8:2,8 16:24,25 18:25 55:18,18 56:1
46:19 way 22:1 27:19 36:19 37:25,25 21:12 40:5,11 62:24 63:2,4
37:2 38:5 39:7 46:11 48:23 40:12,15,17,24 63:11
46:14 work 38:15 56:2 60:8 5
62:1 61:11 worth 55:6 14 8:23,24 27:20 6
46:8 Wednesday 1:9 44:18 41:8,10 41:12
went 26:3 45:1 8:9 41:11
we're 15:18 19:6 34:22 35:4 60:4,7 61:23 9 1:9
whistles 56:24 54:1 56:4 29 35:14
22:19,22 who've 31:7 yellow 41:2 3
27:3 3 2:4 41:12
31:6,7 46:22,22 47:3
wild 49:11 Z 14:10 55:18
34:12 willing 11:6 30,000 26:4
