IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS, SECRETARY OF :
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, :
Petitioner : No. 12-236
v. :
MELISSA CLOER :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 19, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:14 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
BENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Petitioner.
ROBERT T. FISHMAN, ESQ., Denver, Colorado; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
BENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ROBERT T. FISHMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
BENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 48
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:14 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 12-236, Sebelius v. Cloer.
Mr. Horwich.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN J. HORWICH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. HORWICH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Vaccine Act does not provide for an
award of attorneys' fees on a petition that is denied as
untimely. That's the best reading of the Act's text, it
fits best with the structure and purposes of the Act,
and it's the result that's consistent with the canons of
construction that would apply to an award of attorneys'
fees out of the Federal Treasury.
Now, the -- the textual question here in
some sense begins with the statute of limitations, which
is in Section 16 the Act, and which provides that no
petition may be filed outside the applicable time
period.
Now, that provision, like most limitations
provisions, doesn't itself actually say what the
consequences of the failure to comply with the provision
are. And in some sense, just as in the -- the civil
context, it's not as if the Special Master, upon finding
the limitations provision hasn't been complied with, can
go back in time and prevent the petition from being
filed, just as a civil court can't prevent an action
from being commenced, or a suit from being brought, or
whatever the limitations provision proscribes.
So the question really is going forward,
what -- what consequences should there be once the
adjudicator decides -- once he or the Special Master
decides -- that the limitations period has not been
complied with. And textually speaking, it's the
correspondence between the limitations provision, which
says that no petition may be filed, and the attorneys'
fee provision, which depends on the existence of a
petition filed, that signals that Congress intended the
consequences of untimeliness to be visited through the
application of the attorneys' fees provision -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Horwich -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There are other -- there
are other provisions that refer to a petition filed.
For example, reporting annually to Congress, publishing
a notice in the Federal Register, those both refer to
any petition filed. And so in those sections at least,
petition filed would assume petition filed after the
running of the statute of limitations.
MR. HORWICH: Well, those provisions
would -- those provisions by their terms apply at points
in the proceedings where we would entirely
conventionally accept the -- the claimant's
representation that the petition has been filed in
accordance with the time limitation. That's generally
true, certainly in the civil context, that we accept the
plaintiff's allegation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But don't you -- don't
you put in the Federal Register and report to Congress
petitions that had been filed out of time?
MR. HORWICH: Well, with respect to -- with
respect to reporting to -- to Congress, that's actually
an obligation from the Court of Federal Claims, so I
can't necessarily speak on their behalf of what they -
what they've produced. From what I've seen, it's a
statistical report.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, think about the
Federal Register.
MR. HORWICH: The Federal -- with respect to
the Federal Register provision, I should first say that
it has very recently come to my office's attention that
the Department of Health and Human Services has not been
complying with that provision for the last few years,
and they are taking steps to bring themselves in -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So they don't file
anything in the Federal Register?
MR. HORWICH: Well, it -- they -- they have
historically, and let me -- up till about 2009 -- and
again, to be clear, they're taking steps to rectify that
situation. But with respect to the period up to 2009,
what they would do -- and this is understandable given
the -- the provision that says it's supposed to be
published within -- and I believe it's 30 days, that
they -- the petitions that are received or that were
received at the Department get logged into a computer
database, and then a report gets printed out, and they
would cross-check them for accuracy against the petition
title and forward them to the Office of the Federal
Register.
It's not -- it doesn't -- it wouldn't make
sense in a provision that's supposed to be applied
essentially upon the filing of the petition, to go into
an examination of the timeliness of that -- of that
petition.
And so we think that provision, just as you
would -- just as you would describe in a civil context,
you would certainly say that an action that ultimately
proves to be held untimely would nonetheless commence
if -- for example, if you imagine a statute of
limitations that says no action may be commenced, you
wouldn't say the action hadn't been commenced at the
time it was pending. And -- and that's not the argument
we're relying on here.
What -- rather, what we're relying on is the
fact that when you get to the end of the case, which is
where the attorneys' fee provision is evidently supposed
to apply because -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Horwich, could you say a
little bit more about the reporting to Congress
provision because that presumably does not happen at the
very beginning, but happens more at the end or in the
middle. So do -- does the Department subtract the
number of untimely petitions from the number that it
reports?
MR. HORWICH: I believe the -- the reporting
provision is a -- there's a report that the Special
Master is to make to the Court of Federal Claims, and
there's a report that the Court of Federal Claims is to
deliver and -- and those, from what I have seen -
again, the Executive Branch doesn't prepare those
because it's the Special Masters and the court that do,
but the reports that I have seen, my understanding is
that the report of the Special Master is delivered
orally to the judges, and so I don't actually know what
the contents of that are. And the report that -- and
the report that the Court of Federal Claims sends to
Congress is a statistical report of all -- actually, of
all actions filed in the Court of Federal Claims, but it
sends a kind of an omnibus report in satisfaction of -
JUSTICE KAGAN: All actions filed, using
"filed" in the normal sense.
MR. HORWICH: No, no. I actually mean all
actions filed meaning Vaccine Act actions and otherwise.
So it -- it actually doesn't even differentiate the
Vaccine Act -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But is -- is the upshot of
your argument then that filing means different things
under different provisions of the Act?
MR. HORWICH: Well, I think it means -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And if that's so, it tends
to weaken the force of your reliance on -- on filing in
the statute -- on the word "filing" in the statute of
limitations section.
MR. HORWICH: Well, I don't think it
means -- I don't think it means different things in the
Act so much as it means it -- it is to be applied with
the understand -- it is to be applied as the -- as a
fair stand at the time the provision is applied.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I meant -- I meant
that just to supplement Justice Kagan's question. I
didn't mean to cut it off.
MR. HORWICH: Well, let me -- let me focus
for a moment then on the attorneys' fee provision,
though, in terms of why -- why that is particularly good
reason to think that petitions -- a petition filed is to
be considered, in terms of what ought to have been done.
And that's because the -- the attorneys' fee provision
speaks as of -- it speaks of awards of fees at the time
of judgment. And so at that time, we know that any
limitations issue should have been resolved by that
point in the case.
And therefore, it is -- it is an entirely
natural -- it's entirely natural to expect that the
limitations provision might therefore have some
consequences at that stage.
In some ways, you can think of it as an
application of the old maxim that equity regards as done
what ought to have been done.
So we're saying to the Special Master, well,
if you've gotten to the point at the end of the case
where there's a judgment, and you've determined that
this petition was forbidden from being filed, in the
sense that the limitations provision forbids it, then
you should visit the consequences there.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That sounds like a
jurisdictional argument to me. But I understand the
government to be conceding that this statute of
limitations is not jurisdictional. It's just a claim
processing move.
MR. HORWICH: Well, if it sounds like a
jurisdictional argument, then I suppose the answer would
be for this Court to say that it's jurisdictional, and
of course, if that's true, then our position -- our
position would prevail.
We think on balance, given this Court's
precedence most recently in the -- the Auburn Regional
Medical Center case, that these -- that this Court did
not interpret Congress's time limit provisions to be
endowed with jurisdictional significance. It doesn't
mean that it doesn't have any significance. It has the
significance of an ordinary affirmative defense, just as
it has the significance of the -- the timeliness
provision here just has the significance of an ordinary
affirmative defense, just as -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I just want to make
sure I heard you right. You said if it sounds
jurisdictional, we should say it is, and you win.
MR. HORWICH: Well, what I was saying -
what I was saying in response to Justice Sotomayor's
question is that if -- if it seems that that argument
compels you to believe that it's jurisdictional, then
the Court should reach the conclusion that it's
jurisdictional rather than -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But your conclusion
is that it is not jurisdictional.
MR. HORWICH: We think -- we think that it
is not -- we think that it is not, even if the text of
it makes it sound like it could have jurisdictional
significance, we think on balance, this Court's
precedents teach that time -- that time limits are
typically claim processing rules, and we don't think
that the text overcomes that view.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assume I accept -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So using Federal rules as
your model, and Federal rules list statute of
limitations as an affirmative defense. Ordinarily,
that's what it is. But is it an affirmative -- well,
certainly it's an affirmative defense to any award of
compensation under the Vaccine Act.
But what makes it an affirmative defense to
the award of fees?
MR. HORWICH: Well, it seems to -- there is
not anything in the compensation provision that says
that it's an affirmative defense any more than -- in any
way that's more explicit than what we're relying on to
say that it's an affirmative defense to attorneys' fees.
It's not as if Congress said there -- in another section
there shall be no award of future medical expenses when
the statute of limitations is not complied with, and it
left that out of the attorneys' fees.
That's not how the statute is structured.
So we're in a situation where I think we ordinarily are
with statutes of limitation, in trying to decide what
the consequences of noncompliance are -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, one of -- one of
your -- your argument you were making is that there -
since the attorneys' fees provision looks to the end of
the case, it should not be construed to apply to the -
the failure to meet the filing deadline.
Is -- is that true? I mean, the statute
says if the judgment does not award compensation, on a
petition filed under Section 300aa-11 -- if the judgment
does -- is there no judgment when a -- when a case is
dismissed for failure to meet the statute requirement?
MR. HORWICH: It -- it seems to us that the
appropriate disposition of a case that is held to be
untimely is that there is a judgment denying
compensation. And the reasons for that have to do with
something that's not really briefed, but the operation
of the appellate provisions of the Act -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait, so -
MR. HORWICH: -- become confusing if you
treat a dismissal as something different.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Other than the judgment.
Okay. So then -- then your argument that -- that this
fee provision looks to the end of the case simply
doesn't fly. It looks to the beginning as well, if
indeed dismissal for failure to comply with the time
limit is a judgment.
MR. HORWICH: Well, we think -- we agree
that it's a judgment, but it -- but it has to be a
judgment, I'm looking here at page 26A of the appendix
to the government's brief, refers to the judgment of the
Court of Federal Claims on such a petition. And then
such a petition refers back to a petition filed -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well -
MR. HORWICH: -- and so that's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. That's just
repeating your -- your first argument.
MR. HORWICH: Well -- I -- but I do think
that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That petition means -
means a petition properly filed, but I don't see that
the -- that the statutory scheme, the provision that's
at issue here, the provision for the award of attorneys'
fees looks to the end of the case and not to the
beginning. It looks to the judgment. And if it's a
judgment that dismisses because of a failure to comply
with the statute, it's still a judgment.
MR. HORWICH: It's still a judgment, but it
is -- it is not a judgment in connection with a petition
that should be regarded as having been filed timely -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's your first argument.
I understand.
MR. HORWICH: -- that is our first argument.
But let me say, it is also -- the -- the situation here
is not one in which we think that it's incumbent on the
government to -- to demonstrate clearly how Congress
wanted to withhold attorneys' fees. The canons of
construction here all caution the Court to be -- to be
extremely reluctant to extend or -- or find that
Congress is willing to pays attorneys' fees in -- in
this context. And that's for -- and that's for several
reasons.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait. Congress has
waived sovereign immunity. It's absolutely clear that
there's a waiver of sovereign immunity here.
MR. HORWICH: It's clear that there's a
waiver, but it's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And once we find that, I
don't think we nitpick the following language to
unrealistically narrow it as much as possible. I mean,
the initial question of whether Congress has agreed to
be sued is, yes, we -- we assume it hasn't and -- and -
but -- but once it's clear that it has agreed to be
sued, I think we just interpret the language reasonable.
MR. HORWICH: Well, Your Honor, I -- I -- I
think this Court's decision certainly most recently in
the Cooper case, from a term or two ago, says that -
that this Court considers not only the existence but the
extent of the waiver of sovereign immunity to be
controlled by -- by canons that -- that counsel against
extending that -- extending that waiver.
But that's not the only issue here. Because
the consequences of -- of Respondent's rule are ones
that -- that are entirely out of place both with fee
proceedings in general and with this compensation
program in particular.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Horwich, before you go
to the consequences argument, just to keep on with the
text a little bit, is this understanding that you have
of what it means to be filed, does it have any
consequences other than with respect to attorneys' fees,
or is that the only thing that -- that depends on
viewing the word "filed" in this way?
MR. HORWICH: Well, I think viewing the word
"filed" in this way also explains mechanically why the
limitations issue becomes an affirmative defense on the
merits as well because Section 13 says compensation has
to be awarded on a record, and the record is defined as
the record on a petition filed. So similarly, if you
get to the end of the case or you get to the point of
limitations determination, the court says, well, there
shouldn't -- there shouldn't be -- there should not have
been a petition here, and so regarding -- regarding is
done what should have been done, we'll say there is
no -- there is no record available on that petition, so
we should deny compensation.
So I agree it's a little -- which I concede
is -- is not how we ordinarily think about statutes of
limitation, but it -- but it certainly is that -- it is
exactly the same textual logic in the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I totally lost that
answer.
MR. HORWICH: Sure. I'm happy to step
through it in the statute itself.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you -- could you
go back and talk to me again about what you mean about
not having a record?
MR. HORWICH: Sure. So Section 13 of the
Act, which starts on page 19A of the government's brief
says that compensation is awarded "if the Special Master
report finds on the record" various matters.
But then it goes on, and this is on page 21A
in Section 13(c), to define the record as the -- as the
record established on a petition filed. And so in the
same sense that if the Special Master determines that
the limitations provision says, well, there shouldn't
have been a petition filed, the consequence is there is
not a basis for attorneys' fees. They're similarly in
this definitional provision not a basis for the record
on which compensation is to be awarded on the merits.
And that produces the result that we would expect, which
is that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm totally confused.
Are you suggesting that the record shouldn't be filed in
that case or that the record supports the conclusion
that it was untimely? Or neither?
MR. HORWICH: What I'm -- what I'm
suggesting is -- what I'm suggesting is that when the
limitation -- when it's determined that the limitations
provision applies and should have prevented the filing
of the petition, and the Special Master has to decide,
well, what are the consequences of that. Because,
again, the Special Master can't go back and actually
prevent the whole thing from having happened, but the
Special Master can say, well, if this direct -- if this
directed that there shouldn't have been a petition
filed, then one of the consequences is there's no -
there's no record on which we should be able to decide
compensation.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, as to the
consequences, let me give you these two cases. The
first is the case in which the petition is timely filed
and -- as you see it, but the claimant does not prevail
because the claimant is unable to prove that the injury
was caused by the vaccine, but there was a reasonable
basis for the argument and the argument was made in good
faith, so there would be eligibility for attorneys'
fees.
The second is a case in which there is a
question about when the statute of limitations begins to
run. And one of the points at which it can begin to run
is when there is the onset of significant aggravation of
an injury, which seems like a question about which there
could be a factual dispute. And in that situation as
well, the claimant does not prevail on the statute of
limitations argument, but there was a reasonable basis
for thinking that the petition was submitted within the
period after the -- the onset of this significant
aggravation.
Why would Congress want to draw a line
between -- a distinction between those two situations
for the purpose of attorneys' fees?
MR. HORWICH: Well, there's several reasons.
The first -- the first one is that in your -- in your
first example where there's been a determination on the
merits, the Special Master is in a perfect situation to
decide whether there was a reasonable basis on the
merits. And this is how -- this is how the program has
worked since its existence because to be clear, until
the decision below, there was no practice of awarding
attorneys' fees on untimely petitions in the -- in the
program.
And so what you would get would be
situations like your first example, Justice Alito, where
the Special Master would issue a -- a written decision
on entitlement and these are -- these are 10, 15, 20,
25 pages long in my experience, dealing in considerable
detail with the medical evidence, the scientific
evidence, the expert testimony, the review of
literature, the different theories of causation, and
getting to the end, and obviously, if a decision is that
compensation is to be awarded, then attorneys' fees
follow as a matter of right, but if compensation is
denied, the Special Master can and typically does add,
literally as an afterthought, that -- but having been
through all of this and having discussed all of this, I
think there was a reasonable basis for what was being
argued here.
Now, in your second example where the
Special Master has only determined this essentially
diagnostic question of when was the first symptom of
this particular claimant's particular injury, the
Special Master hasn't looked at any materials about
whether the vaccine can cause that injury. So let me
give as a -- as a paradigm example maybe the -- what we
give in our brief as the -- the Smith case, which had to
do with the claim of whether certain childhood vaccines
caused the claimant's Type 1 diabetes.
And the Special Master's decision focuses on
the question of whether the first symptom of the
diabetes was a blood glucose reading that sent the
claimant to the hospital, and then -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. Could you -
could you -- there seems to be a confusion in this
consequence conversation. You seem to be assuming that
the attorneys' fee award on good faith basis has to do
with the ultimate merits, did the vaccine cause this
injury. I would have assumed that the award of
attorneys' fees has to do with whether the petition was
brought in good faith; i.e., was there a reasonable
basis to believe that the petition was timely. And on
that issue, before the Court can adjudicate the
timeliness question, it has to know all of the facts
that made the Petitioner believe it was timely.
And so I'm a little bit confused as to what
additional factfinding the Court has to do. It has to
be told by a lawyer, your cases say because reasonable
basis has to be in fact and law. The law says first
symptom. She experienced X, Y, and Z, and we thought
the latter was the starting point of the statute, not
the former. What more does the Special Master need to
know to adjudicate whether that's in good faith, that
belief is in good faith?
MR. HORWICH: Well, the question under the
attorneys' fee provision, and this is on 26(a) of the
government's brief, is a determination that the petition
was brought in good faith and there was a reasonable
basis for the claim for which the petition was brought.
The question isn't was there a reasonable basis to
believe it was timely, the question is -- and -- and I
think my friend agrees with me on this -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, I understand.
JUSTICE BREYER: But now, look, still, the
worst thing, the obvious question -- I mean, as a
textual matter, but I don't know how you reconcile your
position with the -- with the first words in 3300aa-11,
which is talking about a petition starts this whole
proceeding and you want to interpret that word
"petition" meaning a timely petition. You mean an
untimely petition doesn't start the proceeding? I mean,
that's the technical linguistic thing, but if you get to
your -- to your basic worrying you, what is worrying you
is this proceeding, okay? That's what's worrying you, I
think, the shadow trial.
MR. HORWICH: Yes, it is.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, on that, Justice
Sotomayor said, you only get into this problem when the
attorney has filed this timeliness matter with a good
reason to think his petition is timely, otherwise forget
it. Okay?
So you look at the complaint. You see a
complaint there. He had a good reason for thinking it's
timely. It looks, on the face of the complaint, as if
his client has a good claim, a plausible one. Now, if
the government wants to say, we want to present some
evidence, let them do it. And if they don't, the worst
that happens is this person who thought she had a good
claim, and who was reasonable in her timeliness will get
some attorneys' fees paid.
Why is that -- why is that so terrible? Why
is that putting such a burden on the government that
they have to go through hoops, I think, to try to get
these words in the statute, too?
MR. HORWICH: What -- what we're worried
about here is -- is not the fact that some fees may be
paid. What -- what we're worried about here, as you
said, are the shadow trials, and -- and to an extent
also the question of whether additional cases would be
attractive to the program.
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's in your control,
the shadow trials.
MR. HORWICH: Well -
JUSTICE BREYER: You don't have to have a
shadow trial if you don't want one.
MR. HORWICH: Well, but -- but -- but, Your
Honor, I think where we're coming -- where we're coming
at this from is -- is saying what did Congress envision
here. And as this Court said in Hensley and in Pierce,
Congress doesn't want attorneys' fees to be a second
major litigation. So it seems exceedingly odd to think
it would have set up a scheme in which the case would
end on the merits and yet, the question on which
attorneys' fees are to be decided -- the availability of
attorneys' fees is to be decided is going to require
some further proceedings that have not -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why not -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The shadow trial brings up
the answer that you were giving to the second part of
Justice Alito's question, which you never got to finish.
MR. HORWICH: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you were saying -- you
were giving the example, suppose this were a question of
timeliness.
MR. HORWICH: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And when did the fact of
the vaccine first -- or the symptoms first become
manifest, and you were -- and you said that this should
not be tried because -- and this is finishing off
Justice -
MR. HORWICH: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- Justice Alito's
dichotomy.
MR. HORWICH: Yes. Maybe if I finish giving
the example I was giving in response to the -- the
second part of Justice Alito's dichotomy in that Smith
case. So the timeliness question the Special Master
resolved was, okay, was it the blood glucose reading
that was within the limitations period that was the
first symptom or was it the excessive thirst and
frequent urination that fell outside the limitations
period.
Now, the Special Master, having resolved
that, which is something that I think perhaps even some
of us in the room could recognize that one of those was
the symptom -- was likely the first symptom or not, the
Special Master then has to decide, was there a
reasonable basis for the claim that childhood vaccines
cause Type 1 diabetes? And that's simply not something
that that timeliness determination is going to be any
good for the Special Master in deciding.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there's a lot of
information just in 11 -- what is it -- (c), tells what
has to be put in the petition. And there's -
couldn't -- couldn't a Special Master make the
determination based on that?
MR. HORWICH: Well, I think part of the
problem is that we would be asking the Special Master to
spend the Special Master's time reviewing that material,
assuming that it's even in the petition, which is not
always the case. We'd be asking the Special Master to
spend -- spend her time evaluating that material in a
proceeding that can't result in compensation to any
injured person, which is, of course, the point of the
program, instead of spending her time on -- on other
petitions, and it's that diversion of resources that's
so concerning to us and we think would have been so
peculiar to Congress.
If I could reserve my -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Fishman?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT T. FISHMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. FISHMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
My friend started with Section 16. I'd like
to start very briefly with our reading of the fee
provision itself. Section 15(e)(1), which says, "Any
petition filed under Section 11 is eligible for award of
attorneys' fees, even if it's denied, provided that two
conditions are satisfied. It has to be filed in good
faith and with a reasonable basis."
15(e) itself and by its terms says nothing
about compliance with the statute of limitations. The
filing provisions of Section 11, which are Section
11(a)(1) similarly say nothing about compliance with the
statute of limitations. Our position, therefore, is the
most direct and sensible reading of 15(e)(1), is you can
get an award of fees on a petition that has been denied
regardless of the reason why, and there is no textual
basis for saying that that provision carves out an
exception for one class of denied cases, those denied on
limitations grounds.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if -- if you're
preparing one of these filings, and you're all set to
go, and on the day before your filing you say, oh, gosh,
it doesn't look like we're going to be on time. You
should still go ahead and file because you might be able
to apply for attorneys' fees. While if you file it the
day that it's due and you find out the day after, oh, my
gosh, we weren't on time, then there's no question that
you could apply for attorneys' fees.
MR. FISHMAN: Right. And if I understand
that comment correctly, I think that's right, and -- and
you see actually many Special Master decisions that
ultimately deny a petition for failure typically to
prove causation; and when they turn to the reasonable
basis standard, they will say literally, your contact -
your client contacted you two days before the statute of
limitations was going to run.
You ran to the courthouse and filed. You
had a basis, we believe, for filing your claim. Further
investigation, examination of the medical -- medical
records made you question that judgment, and you
abandoned the case. And -- and there can be fee awards
in -- in that scenario.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: My hypothetical was
not that you had two days and you made it in time, but
that before the -- the time -- after the time expired or
you were ready to file on time, but then you decided on
further research, oh, this isn't going to look like
we're going to comply. We thought we had the time, but
we don't. You should still go ahead and file, right, so
that you might be able to get the fees?
MR. FISHMAN: I think that would depend -
if -- if you're late, you're late. I think the -- the
judgment your hypothetical would call on the attorney to
make is, why did we miss it, and maybe does that provide
grounds for equitable tolling or do we have a reasonable
and good faith argument as to timeliness?
If the lawyer says, I blew it, whether by a
day or a month or a year, I think that attorney's going
to have a very difficult time showing a good faith
reasonable basis for filing a claim that I think in your
hypothetical would be by the attorney's own account,
clearly time barred without justification.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So are you saying that
the good faith and the reasonableness go to two things:
One, the claim on the merits, and also the timeliness.
MR. FISHMAN: That is what we're saying.
That's also what the Federal circuit said. I think the
word "claim," as it's used in the statute, encompasses
the entire case. Causation, evidence that you actually
received a vaccine, the timeliness of your petition,
damages, the -- everything you would need to
establish -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how do you answer the
argument about a shadow trial?
MR. FISHMAN: There's a number of arguments
about -- about that subject. And I think the starting
point because it may have been lost a little bit in the
briefs, is the government does not cite a single case
where there has ever even been a hearing held on a fee
petition, ever. And collectively are -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How were the records
accumulated and when?
MR. FISHMAN: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How were the records
accumulated and when?
MR. FISHMAN: They are accumulated -- the
system that's established is one of front-loading.
You -- 11(c) requires an enormous amount of medical
documentation that is to be filed with the petition when
it's filed. If they are incomplete, you're required to
submit an affidavit explaining what's missing and why.
The very first thing substantively that
happens with these things, Vaccine Act Rule 4(a) says
within 30 days of filing a petition, the secretary must
review the medical records, and if she thinks they are
deficient, she has to immediately notify the Petitioner,
and that is the very first thing that is hashed out in
these cases, complete medical records.
Section -- Vaccine Act Rule 2(c)(2) says if
you're not going to rely solely on medical records in
support of your petition -- medical records will often
contain evidence of causation. If the records
themselves don't and you're going to go outside the
records, Vaccine Act Rule 2(c) -- 2(b)(2) is the actual
rule, says you're going to rely on observations or
testimony of every witness -- any witness, you have to
submit a detailed affidavit of the proposed testimony
that supports every allegation in the petition.
So the answer is, a lot of it's there right
at the front end, which is not to say that as these
cases get litigated and the areas of contention get
refined. Additional information can also be submitted,
but it is front loaded.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So is your bottom line
that the record is already there for the shadow
determination?
MR. FISHMAN: Sure. And that's the reason
why we point out in our brief, routinely these cases are
decided -- fee determinations are made based on the
written materials without a hearing, without any
additional evidence. And again there are no cases -- we
are not aware of a single instance going to the
inception of this program where there has ever been an
evidentiary hearing.
JUSTICE ALITO: And if there is a hearing,
would the claimant's attorney get -- potentially get
attorneys' fees for the representation at the hearing
about attorneys' fees?
MR. FISHMAN: Yes, the law is pretty clear
that fees are available for time incurred on seeking
fees.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think it would be
within the discretion of the court or Special Master to
look at a case and say, for whatever strange reason,
this is a case where it's going to require some lengthy
mini-trial in order to figure out fees and that's a bad
use of everybody's time, so I'm not going to grant
attorneys' fees here? In other words -- you know, this
is a "may" provision; would it be a sufficient reason
that this is just going to take too long, it's too
involved, so I'm going to deny attorneys' fees in this
case?
MR. FISHMAN: I think that might well be
within a Special Master's discretion, if it really is
going -- if a fee determination really will require the
sort of parade of horribles that the government sees.
It's not our case, but I think it could be possible and
-- and within their discretion in a subsequent case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You think the Special
Master "may" award -- so it "may" award is
discretionary.
MR. FISHMAN: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's a tough
position, isn't it? I mean, if you have got a difficult
and tough and complicated case, well, you get no fees;
but if you've got an easy one, well, then you get fees.
MR. FISHMAN: I don't know -- the -- no
court and the parties have not briefed or addressed in
this case the -- the extent to which the "may"
discretion can be exercised in a procedural way that
Justice Kagan's hypothetical proposes. I'm just saying,
I can't stand here and give you a hard and fast rule
that says that will never be appropriate.
Maybe if that case comes before a court and
a Special Master has done that, the argument will be
it's an abuse of discretion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you
were -- I thought you were giving us that argument when
you said under the fees all you need is reasonable and
good faith.
MR. FISHMAN: Those are the requirements to
be eligible for an award of fees, the statutory
requirements for eligibility. But just because you meet
good faith and reasonable basis does not necessarily
mean you get fees for the -- for the reasons just
discussed. It is discretionary.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So is one reason
that should affect the exercise of discretion is that
you didn't comply with the statute of limitations?
MR. FISHMAN: I think it might be. There -
the law is not -- this is not the issue in our case, so
it's -- it's -- it's difficult to know the precise
contours of the exercise of discretion in a case where
nobody's contended that the discretion couldn't properly
be exercised.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, let's take -- let's
take this case. What would you put in to show that you
have been reasonable, in good faith and reasonable, one,
as to the claim; and two, as to the attorneys' fees?
What -- what would the Special Master have to look at to
make those determinations in this case?
MR. FISHMAN: I will take the second part
first, reasonableness of statute of limitations. The
Federal Circuit has already ruled that we were
reasonable to bring this case in terms of timeliness
because of the case law as it existed at the time the
petition was filed, the fact that we actually prevailed
on the timeliness question before the three-judge panel.
So the Federal -- I think on that question the Federal
Circuit has resolved it.
But if you want to go beyond that, I think
you would look at our briefs and the laws that existed
and the analysis of the various courts that have looked
at this and said -- and say, that was a close call, you
actually prevailed for a couple years on this question.
That's reasonable, and that's good faith.
As to the merits, it is all the material
that accompanied our petition, which is principally
medical records, also some medical studies linking the
Hepatitis B vaccine to MS, and then a number of
affidavits that were filed subsequently. And I think
that is all you would need to look at, and -- that is
the only thing in the record. Because the government
has introduced no evidence in this case at any stage
contesting the merits of our underlying claim.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They are arguing that
they don't need to, and why should be -- why should they
be put to the burden of doing that.
MR. FISHMAN: The reason is you have to
remember this is not ordinary civil litigation; it's a
streamlined front-loaded process. So the way the
Vaccine Act works is you file a petition with medical
records, as I mentioned before. You have 30 days for
the government to object to the completeness of the
record. The very next thing that happens under the
rules, and it's Rule 4(c), is the Secretary has 90 days
to set out all of her objections to the case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the very fact that
it's streamlined indicates to me that we should be very
careful to enforce the policy of the rule which is to
deter the filing of stale claims. And your -- your rule
certainly undermines that.
MR. FISHMAN: I think that you have to back
up and -- and acknowledge, as a starting point, that
there's no question that Congress intended this program
to award fees on petitions that have been denied. And
as we point out in our brief, petitions are routinely
denied on procedural grounds where there has been no
examination of the underlying merits, just as the
government contends is the case with statute of
limitations.
We disagree with that. We think actually to
resolve a statute of limitations question, a Special
Master is going to have a more complete understanding of
the underlying merits of a case than in many other
procedural settings. So we know that Congress has
already said, sure, it's a streamlined process, but
we're not going to pursue that objective at the expense
of compensating attorneys who bring good faith claims,
but lose.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is the -- what's the
relationship between your position and equitable
tolling? I mean, your case, I think, is unusual in that
there was a fair amount of confusion about when the
statute of limitations might run or that's your
position. I would think a lot of the cases where the
attorney doesn't meet the limitations deadline will
involve things like -- you know, I was delayed by
Hurricane Sandy or -- or whatever, or we were trying to
file, it got lost in the mail.
Are those things that -- I mean, should that
be considered under the rubric of equitable tolling, or
under -- under your idea where you don't have to file on
time anyway?
MR. FISHMAN: The -- the -- I think that the
best answer to that question is to look at the Federal
Circuit -- Circuit's en banc ruling in Cloer I. We
actually argued -- we didn't argue snowstorm. What our
argument was is there was an extraordinary circumstance
that prevented us from filing within 36 months of the
first symptom. And that circumstance was there was no
scientific evidence of a link between the vaccine -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand that,
but I would assume the more typical case is when you
miss a filing deadline is because the lawyer, whether
for good reasons or bad, missed the filing deadline.
And I'm just curious if you would -- if it's not
sufficient to support equitable tolling, whether it is,
therefore, unreasonable when it comes to attorneys'
fees?
MR. FISHMAN: I think that would be a
case-by-case determination as to whether the particular
facts relied upon supported good faith and a reasonable
basis. I think in Your Honor's hypothetical, you would
be -- a lawyer would be skating on thin ice there, too,
because the Federal Circuit made clear in Cloer I that
fraud and duress are the grounds for equitable tolling.
So I think if you are going to bring a claim that you
know is late and your only excuse is a snowstorm, you
have to look at Cloer I and think, I don't have a very
strong or maybe any equitable tolling argument.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It does seem to me, I did
not have the opportunity to ask the government this
question, that the equitable tolling argument undercuts
the government's position that no petition may be filed,
as being an absolute. Because we all know, I take it
the government concedes, that there is equitable
tolling.
MR. FISHMAN: They -- well, they fought the
issue.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or there can be equitable
tolling in some cases.
MR. FISHMAN: Sure. That's the law. They
fought the issue below and lost, and in fairness, in
their briefs to this Court, they say, we don't agree
with the ruling just because we didn't seek this Court's
review for reasons that are not identified.
That is the law. That's correct. And it
is, frankly, one in a long list of inconsistencies with
their conception of what it means to file under the Act.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Fishman, this may be a
hard question for you to answer, but is your sense of
why it is that petitions are untimely filed that they
usually have to do with things like -- you know,
snowstorms and lawyer error, or that they usually have
to do with questions about the manifestation of
symptoms?
Or something else, if something else is -
just the range of cases out there, what are we talking
about? Why are these cases untimely filed?
MR. FISHMAN: My understanding from reading
the case law is it's the latter. It's not snowstorms.
It is here is a disease. I have a child that has been
sick her whole life. When is the first symptom of this
disease? She coughed 40 months ago. She had a -- some
other symptom 42, and the experts often battle that out,
and -- and oftentimes the Special Master said, sorry, it
was the cough at 40 months that is the first symptom of
the disease, not the symptom you've pointed to.
JUSTICE ALITO: This may be a question that
the government is in a better position to answer, but
do -- do you have any sense of how often claims are
rejected on the ground of timeliness, what we're dealing
with?
I mean, you mentioned in a footnote that the
fund out of which the -- the claims and the attorneys'
fees are paid has a positive balance of $3.5 billion.
Maybe the only government fund that has a positive
balance, but -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE ALITO: Is this going to bankrupt
the -- the system?
MR. FISHMAN: I -- I can't imagine how it
would even really put much of a dent in that government
obligation.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you know how many cases
we might be dealing with?
MR. FISHMAN: I -- I don't. I know that
there are not a huge number of published cases by
Special -- unpublished decisions by Special Masters on
the statute of limitations question. I tend to think
that those numbers will actually go down moving forward,
even under the rule we're proposing because of the law
on when the statute of limitations runs is so much
clearer now than it was in 2005 when we brought this
case.
The other point, of course, is you're always
going to have to show good faith and a reasonable basis.
So the government seems to suggest that the rule we're
advocating and the one that the Federal Circuit adopted
is going to result in a flood of frivolous litigation.
I think that's just not supported because of the
requirements you'd have to establish.
I think there's also no reason to think that
that will be the case empirically, and I say that for
this reason: The -- the program for 25 years has
authorized the payment of fees to losers. It has paid
out $2.4 billion in compensation to individuals injured
by vaccines in that 25 years and just about $160 million
in fees for winners and losers. It is just over
6 percent. And one would think that if this unusual
system of paying losers really encouraged the filing of
frivolous lawsuits so lawyers could be paid, you'd think
the number would be substantially higher than 6 percent.
JUSTICE ALITO: Who pays for the Special
Masters? Is that paid out of the fund?
MR. FISHMAN: It is.
I do want to answer a couple of the
questions that were presented during my friend's
presentation. The -- I was not aware of the fact that
the Secretary no longer discharges her obligation to
publish in the Federal Register, but as we noted in our
brief, our petition was published. And her obligation
to publish it was triggered by the statute's requirement
that a petition has, quote, "been filed under Section
11." Ours -- ours, in fact, was published.
The question that -- that you raised,
Justice Kagan, is there any other situation where this
reading results in a petition that has been filed. The
answer is yes, the government argues that a petition
filed under Section 11, even if it's untimely, is
sufficient to commence proceedings and confer
jurisdiction, which if that's true, it goes to your
question, Justice Sotomayor. How do you get here if the
statute -- if the statute of limitations is not
jurisdictional? How do you get from one place to the
next? I -- I think there's not a good answer for that.
Another question that has arisen, I think,
Justice Scalia, your comments are correct, that -- that
a filing, a judgment can occur at any time in a case. I
think it's also important to remember that the Secretary
is not bound to defend a case on the merits and then
contest a fee award for the same reason. So there are
cases pending before the Special Masters right now that
for reasons I suspect are that the Secretary wanted to
establish a precedent, that there is no causation
between vaccine A and injury X, we want to litigate that
on the merits, and they have won. But it wasn't a slam
dunk. There was a lot of evidence and a lot of science
to contradict that, which was rejected.
Those lawyers now come before the Special
Master and seek fees in those cases, and the Secretary
is arguing no fees because these are time-barred. And
in that case, you are going to have a judgment, by the
government's account, entered on the merits and then
they're going to come back and defend a fee award
saying, there is no judgment because there's never been
a case filed, and you can't get fees. And it is just a
fundamental and glaring inconsistency with their
position.
I want to address a couple additional points
on the shadow trial argument because these were raised
in the government's reply brief.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Could I -- I have been
thinking about your last point. Couldn't that last
point easily be remedied by -- by simply our holding
that -- you know, you -- you can't ride both horses;
that if, in fact, you've litigated it through to a -- to
a merits judgment in your favor, which presumably has
stare decisis effect, you then cannot come back and say
the suit never occurred because the filing was too late.
I mean, we -- I think we're able to hold that, don't you
think?
MR. FISHMAN: I -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, I agree with you
it's a terrible -- it's a terrible, outrageous thing for
the government to do, to win the case and get -- get
stare decisis effect, and then to say you can't get
lawyers' fees because there's never been a case, right?
MR. FISHMAN: Right. I mean, I think
that -- yes, and I think that, in terms of authority,
power, I think that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: We could make that up,
couldn't we?
MR. FISHMAN: I think that you probably
could.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure.
MR. FISHMAN: I think you probably could,
but I think that the problem is you would then be, in
essence, adopting a procedural rule though that endorses
the inconsistency in the position. A petition is filed
for some purposes but not for others, even though
Congress only referred to petitions filed in -- in the
generic sense. It didn't distinguish between the time
at which it's entered or the basis on which it's
entered. And it could have easily done these things.
The -- the government is proposing this
legal fiction. Well, they say, sure, I mean, it can be
tendered and accepted and you can litigate it for years
and there can be all sorts of rulings, but as soon as
the Special Master enters a ruling on timeliness, the
phrase is they're bound to, quote, "refuse to recognize"
that it has ever been filed.
They could have established that -- Congress
could have established that legal fiction. It could
have said no petition shall be deemed to be filed if it
is brought after the statute of limitations has run.
Or Congress could have achieved this same
consequence that the government is attributing to
Section 16 by enacting a rule like this Court's Rule
13-2; the court will not -- will not file a cert
petition that is untimely.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You were going to address
the shadow trial?
MR. FISHMAN: Yeah, a couple -- a couple
quick points. We cited 11 cases in the discussion of
our -- in our discussion of shadow trials for the point
that these petition -- petitions are denied on
procedural grounds all the time, and Special Masters
resolve subsequent fee requests routinely and without a
hearing.
The government -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Procedural grounds because
the affidavits aren't sufficient or -
MR. FISHMAN: Inadequate records is one
reason. Sometimes, a petitioner dies, and their family
or estate does not want to pursue this, so it's
abandoned. There's cases where there's just a failure
to prosecute, it's not clear why; the lawyers lost touch
with a client or I don't know the reason why, it's just
a failure to prosecute.
There are also cases where somebody is
arguing for causation, but as their case is going
through the system, other cases are being decided that
reject their view, particularly paradigm cases. And the
petitioners fold, they give up, but the lawyers, having
fought the cases for years, come in and argue. So those
are all, incidentally, examples of procedural denials
that are reflected in the 11 cases we cited.
The point I wanted to make is the government
doesn't say which of those cases it's referring to when
it makes the claim that our cases reflect circumstances
where the Secretary has determined the program's
resources would be best conserved by, I think the phrase
is "acquiescing" to a modest request for fees.
They don't identify what cases they're
talking about, but in 10 of the 11 cases we cited, on
their face, fee awards were contested. And they're
litigated. And you read the opinions, and the Special
Masters are resolving the challenges that the Secretary
made, and they are doing it without a hearing.
There also is this argument about -- I think
we've already gone over the fact that a statute of
limitations determination is not identical to a
causation determination. The additional argument that
the Secretary made in their brief is that, unlike many
other matters that must be supported at the outset -
the key question in most of these cases, causation, you
don't have to furnish evidence or make allegations of
causation -- is not correct.
Under Section 11(c), if you're bringing a
non-table case, you have to allege cause and effect.
And if the medical records don't support causation, you
need an affidavit from an expert. So that is
front-loaded as well.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there regulations or
rules establishing hourly rates?
MR. FISHMAN: There are not.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have any idea
from the cases what the ranges are?
MR. FISHMAN: For rates?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: For rates.
MR. FISHMAN: It varies region by region. I
think the Special Masters look to see what the rates in
Denver are as opposed to the rates in New York or Los
Angeles -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know that civil rights
rates, for example, are far below market rates for most
law firms. Is that the same for this, or is it market
rates generally?
MR. FISHMAN: Right. I think it's less.
And it's not -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Market rates for general
litigation.
MR. FISHMAN: Right. And it's not CJA
rates -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right.
MR. FISHMAN: -- but very often, it's not
the rates that attorneys are actually paid. It ends up
being a problem -- as an aside -- with expert witnesses
sometimes because the Special Masters don't pay what
experts in these cases want.
If there are no further questions, I will
relinquish the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Horwich, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN J. HORWICH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. HORWICH: Thank you. I think it's
important -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have some
evidence -- numbers -- to tell us how complicated the
fee award disputes are generally -- putting aside
because it hasn't until recently been an issue for cases
dismissed -- but for other cases, particularly those
dismissed on -- other procedural grounds.
MR. HORWICH: Well, no, we don't. And
actually, that's the point I wanted to start with
is that -- is that the Federal Circuit's decision below
puts the program into this unchartered territory, where
we don't really know what this is going to look like.
The cases that -- that my friend cites in
his brief are ones that either the petition is so
facially defective that, of course, fees can't be
awarded on it, but there's no reason to think that's
going to be the typical case.
And then there's other cases where the
application of the reasonable basis standard is so lax
as to essentially just turn on -- on the claimant's
personal say-so, that, oh, I think the vaccine caused my
injury. That's like -- that's the Hamrick case, for
example; it's cited in there.
And that -- that can't be the standard for
reasonable basis.
And -- and so I think the Court needs to
keep in mind that, for example, when my friend says
there's -- the government doesn't cite a case where
there's been any shadow trial, the reason is because
there haven't been fees available on untimely petitions,
which is exactly the set-up that would cause you to have
a shadow trial.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there have been
dismissals on other procedural grounds.
MR. HORWICH: Well, there aren't -- there
are not really other procedural grounds. There may be
situations where a petition is voluntarily withdrawn,
and I think there is a problem there about there not
actually being a judgment when somebody voluntarily
withdraws.
But even in those, the Special Masters
should have, in our view, examined whether there was a
reasonable basis. I don't think it's right to say that
an attorney can come in, file the petition and then the
claimant decides, well, I would like to withdraw, and
then the attorney essentially gets paid as of right.
So our -- it's unsurprising that there's no
examples of these hearings. It's also unsurprising that
my friend says, well, there -- for the petitions, when
it comes time to determine fees, the record is complete.
Of course the record is complete because the case has
been decided on the merits. And that's the paradigm
situation under which the program has been operated.
What we are talking about here is entering
this unchartered territory, where -- where the program
has not been before, and where you wouldn't think
Congress would want to send it. And this is our central
concern with this case. The government's concern
here -- and the reason we've petitioned for certiorari
is not because of the dollar amount involved in paying
these claims. The concern is about where the program's
resources are being directed.
The question is -- the question is about
where the finite number of Special Masters, the finite
number of government attorneys, can put their time in
responding to these petitions for -- to deliver the
compensation to the very few, but very deserving people
who Congress wanted to award compensation to.
And our concern here is -
JUSTICE BREYER: So your view here it's the
same. No attorneys' fees when the client dies, or they
decide to withdraw the petition when it's dismissed
early on for a procedural ground, when the record is
inadequate, et cetera.
You think that in none of those cases
Congress would have wanted attorneys' fees.
Or is it -
MR. HORWICH: Well, in the case of -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- do you think in some but
not others?
MR. HORWICH: Well, no. In the case where
the claimant dies, the statute has provisions for that,
and you can obtain compensation in that situation. So
there's no reason an attorney can't go on there -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no, no.
MR. HORWICH: -- if they want to -- if they
want to withdraw the petition, I guess it depends on
exactly the circumstances under which -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but my question is what
is your view? It's the same problem. He's listed, you
heard, he listed six or seven different instances -
four or five anyway; he's found 11 cases, apparently.
And so what is your view?
MR. HORWICH: Well, my view -- my view is
the view that I think we would take under any other fee
shifting provision, which is that if a claimant wants to
withdraw his or her case, I don't think that he can then
claim the benefit of the attorneys' fee provision,
absent some circumstances that -- that would warrant the
finding of reasonable basis. I think that is an
unexceptional result.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:12 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
adopting 44:12 APPEARANC... attorney 22:16 aware 31:8 41:16
43:18 affect 33:14 appellate 13:1 36:18 50:15,17
applicable 3:20 attorneys 3:11 B 34:21
53:2
9:18 49:15 7:7 9:4,8 12:2,6 16:24 18:1
11:17 8:23,24 14:18 15:24 bad 31:22 37:12
applies 17:23 17:11 18:15 balance 10:11
16:4 apply 3:15 5:2 19:5,14,25 11:10 39:23,25
27:14 23:2,22 24:1,2 bankrupt 40:2
19:2 12:22 32:24 31:13,14,24 based 25:18 31:5
38:16 argued 20:6 37:4 39:22 48:11 18:14,24 19:10
argues 42:1 51:11,17,22 20:5,24 21:4,11
2:2,5,8 3:3,6 attractive 23:12 33:10 37:20
39:16 11:1 12:12 13:6 Auburn 10:12 49:15,21 50:14
41:11 13:20 14:9,11 authority 44:2 52:21
13:1 17:2
18:24 26:9 availability 24:1 beginning 7:12
35:8
33:1,4 37:5 31:16 50:1 begins 3:18
51:6 arguments 29:11 20:24 21:1 5:15 26:10
30:23
43:7 47:2
24:6 29:9 assume 4:24 51:14 27:24
37:2 11:14 15:5 awarded 16:6 benefit 52:19
39:17 37:10 17:3,13 19:25 BENJAMIN
42:1,8 assumed 21:1 49:12 1:16 2:3,9 3:6
12:14,19,22 cert 45:8 20:10,16 31:12 51:13,14 52:4
29:13 25:23 28:2 29:5 certiorari 51:5 36:10 39:18,22 completeness
32:25 33:17,19 Chief 3:3,8 10:21 clear 6:5 14:22 26:21,23
36:1,6,14 37:10 33:3,13 36:12 37:22 46:1 complied 4:2,11
23:13,16 43:4,23,25 46:5 child 39:9 28:23 14:4 28:9 33:15
52:6 47:9 49:13,18 childhood 20:15 client 22:22 complying 5:24
49:24 50:22 25:10 27:21 46:2 computer 6:11
21:19 52:25 53:1 34:11 37:3,22 Cloer 1:7 3:4 concedes 38:8
35:23 cases 18:9 21:10 40:21 37:3,22 38:1 conceding 10:3
43:9 47:3 23:11 27:4 30:9 Circuit's 37:3 close 34:15 conception 38:21
30:22 31:4,7 49:6 collectively concern 51:4,4,7
39:5,6 40:7,10 37:5,7 Colorado 1:19 concerning 26:4
38:16 46:9,11,13,14 cite 29:14 49:24 50:15 conditions 26:18
37:24 47:17 48:14 46:19 49:19 37:15 50:21 confused 17:16
40:16 37:18 CJA 48:7 commenced 4:5 36:15
causation 19:23 claim 10:4 11:12 7:1,2 Congress 4:15
42:17 22:22 23:1 comments 42:10 7:10 8:3 12:3
15:13 caused 18:13 52:19 11:20,24 12:17 44:15 45:1,5
20:23 coughed 39:11 19:10 25:9 depends 4:14 discussion 45:13
counsel 15:13 51:18 15:25 52:8 45:14
4:8,16 52:24 28:7 31:5 46:6 deserving 51:13 39:15
12:10 couple 34:16 50:23 detail 19:21 dismissal 13:4,9
41:14 43:7 decides 4:9,10 detailed 30:18 dismissals 50:5
18:5,9 45:12,12 50:16 deter 35:17 dismissed 12:20
50:22 19:13,18,24 25:12,18 31:2 disposition 12:22
4:4 5:14 7:18 decisions 27:17 47:2 disputes 48:25
14:16 15:11 16:9 21:5 defective 49:11 determined 9:22 documentation
14:19 cut 9:2 51:12 52:12 easily 43:12
day 27:8,12,12 26:17 27:1,4,4 directed 18:4 eligibility 18:15
days 6:9 27:21 dent 40:5 disagree 36:3 eligible 26:16
42:10 deadline 12:15 deny 16:14 27:18 32:5,9,21 33:2 en 37:3
36:18 37:11,12 32:2 33:14,19,20 enacting 45:7
35:25 37:5 48:25 52:16,19 30:5 35:17 37:6
15:17 24:22 47:25 facially 49:11 17:11 18:16 27:12
examples 46:10 23:8 24:13 34:8 23:2,8,22 24:1 finds 17:4
37:14 23:23 factfinding 21:9 31:13,14,16,17 finite 51:10,10
38:2,5,8 exception 27:4 facts 21:6 37:19 31:22,24 32:2 firms 48:1
excessive 25:2 factual 18:22 32:16,17 33:5,8 first 3:4 5:21
exercise 33:14 45:25 46:3 43:4,25 46:17 21:11 22:4
49:16 33:21 faith 18:15 20:24 fell 25:3 37:7 39:10,14
existed 34:7,13 21:3,15,16,20 fiction 44:20 45:2 Fishman 1:19 2:6
42:17 15:11 19:12 28:25 33:6,10 file 6:1 27:10,11 28:12 29:2,11
45:1,2 17:14 36:10 37:19 36:21,24 38:21 31:15 32:4,13
expenses 12:4 family 45:23 filed 3:20 4:4,13 34:3 35:5,19
expert 19:22 4:22 5:10,14,19 14:8 15:23 16:1 45:12,22 47:15
22:24 experts 39:12 7:18,19 8:2,4 17:17 18:5,10 48:10
30:13 31:7 48:14 11:15,16 13:15 22:16 26:16,18 fits 3:13
37:8 expired 28:6 29:3 34:5,10,10 27:23 29:25 five 52:13
47:6 explaining 30:2 37:2,22 40:21 30:1 34:8,22 flood 40:22
explains 16:3 41:18 49:6 38:6,24 39:6 fly 13:8
given 6:7 10:11 government's Horwich 1:16 2:3 incomplete 30:1
24:22 33:4 21:19 38:6 43:1 5:1,12,20 6:3 38:20
49:9,23 28:25 30:14 37:23 45:16,20 15:20 16:2,21 information
34:12 40:13 49:3 50:5,7 17:1,20 19:6 25:15 30:23
going 4:7 24:2 H 24:12,18,21 injury 18:12,21
47:12 30:14,16 31:8 happened 18:2 51:24 52:2,7,15 instance 31:8
32:6 36:5,9 22:25 30:4 hourly 47:14 intended 4:15
40:22 42:25 happy 16:21 Human 1:4 5:23 interpret 10:14
49:8,13 hashed 30:8 hypothetical introduced 34:25
28:8 21:16,20 22:16 heard 10:22 involve 36:19
22:20,22,25 52:12 I involved 32:2
31:6,10,11,13 idea 36:24 47:16 issue 9:11 14:1
48:5 42:8 29:15 imagine 6:25 49:1
Laughter 40:1 literature 19:23 Master 4:1,9 27:25,25 29:24
12:17,18 31:15 33:17 litigated 30:22 18:3 19:9,18 47:10
13:5 34:7 38:14,19 43:14 46:21 20:2,8,11 21:14 meet 12:15,20
39:8 40:14 48:1 litigation 23:23 24:24 25:5,9,13 33:9 36:18
laws 34:13 35:6 40:22 48:6 25:17,20,23 MELISSA 1:7
42:11 lawsuits 41:9 little 7:10 15:22 27:17 31:19 mentioned 35:9
43:3,15 lawyer 21:10 16:15 21:8 32:11 33:1 34:1 39:21
28:18 37:11,21 29:13 36:5 39:13 merits 16:5
42:22 43:25 logic 16:18 40:11 41:12 29:1 34:18 35:1
11:2,4,6 46:1,8 long 19:20 32:1 42:15 45:16 35:25 36:6
42:7 lax 49:15 38:20 46:22 47:21 42:13,19 43:1
legal 44:20 45:2 look 22:1,19 27:9 51:10 middle 7:13
31:18 life 39:10
41:24 34:14 materials 20:11 missed 37:12
16:17 looking 13:13 31:6 missing 30:2
looks 12:13 13:7 matter 1:12 20:1 model 11:16
7:1 Los 47:22 47:4 month 28:19
24:5,9 lose 36:11 maxim 9:18 months 37:6
35:14 8:19 9:11,15,24
11:17 12:5 losers 41:3,6,8 mean 8:8 9:2 39:11,14
45:10 lost 16:19 29:13 10:16 12:16 morning 3:4
47:13 16:4,9 17:9,22
25:1,3 36:21 38:15 15:3 16:24 22:2 move 10:5
33:15 lot 25:14 30:20 33:11 36:14,22
22:3 34:4 36:2,4,16
N 2:1,1 3:1
32:18 36:18 40:12,15
36:7,19 42:6 45:4 47:1
38:7,25 limits 11:11
43:13 line 19:3 30:25
47:24 49:8 linguistic 22:9
omnibus 8:5 paying 41:8 51:6 44:15 45:15 prevail 10:10
operated 50:24 pending 7:3 Pierce 23:21 prevent 4:3,4
oral 1:12 2:2,5 period 3:21 4:10 point 9:12,21 printed 6:12
34:21 10:19 35:6 4:23,24,24 5:5 points 5:2 18:19 35:24 36:7
41:10 ought 9:7,19 6:13,18,20 9:6 43:7 45:13 44:12 45:16,20
outrageous 9:23 12:18 policy 35:16 46:10 49:3 50:5
outset 47:4 13:24 14:7 16:7 22:4 26:24 proceeding 22:6
41:17,19 17:2,5 29:25 30:5,12 power 44:3 produced 5:16
paid 23:2,9 39:23 35:8 38:6 41:19 precedence program 15:19
particularly 9:5 petitions 5:11 presented 41:15 proposing 40:14
24:25 parties 32:19 19:14 26:3 43:15 proscribes 4:6
24:10,24 27:13 27:19 28:16,21 Register 4:22 45:17
38:5,23 39:16 40:19 49:15,21 regulations 34:11
4:2,6,12 questions 39:2 reasons 12:24 42:21 respect 5:12,13
5:21,24 41:15 48:15 14:20 19:6 relationship 5:20 6:6 15:24
7:7 quick 45:13 33:11 37:12 36:13 Respondent 1:20
8:24 quote 41:21 38:18 42:16 reliance 8:17 2:7 26:10
44:24 REBUTTAL 2:8 relied 37:19 Respondent's
11:24 48:19 relinquish 48:16 15:16
13:7,25 R received 6:10,11 reluctant 14:17 responding
17:9,12,23 R 3:1 29:6 rely 30:11,16 51:12
26:15 raised 41:23 43:8 recognize 25:7 relying 7:4,5 response 10:25
31:25 ran 27:23 44:24 12:1 24:22
range 39:5 reconcile 22:3 remainder 48:16 result 3:14 17:14
5:1,2 8:14 rates 47:14,18 16:13,25 17:4,6 remedied 43:12 52:22
13:1 47:19,21,22,25 17:7,12,17,18 remember 35:6 results 41:25
52:3 47:25 48:2,5,8 18:6 31:1 34:24 42:12 review 19:22
41:19,22 read 46:21 records 28:1 report 5:10,17 ride 43:13
41:25 45:22 47:10 5:13 7:10,16 42:15 43:25
really 4:7 12:25 refer 4:20,22 representation 50:14,17
35:4 40:5 41:8 49:8 50:7 referring 46:13 request 46:17 ROBERT 1:19
reason 9:6 22:17 refers 13:14,16 requests 45:17 2:6 26:9
35:5 40:25 41:2 reflected 46:11 required 30:1 27:6 28:4 32:14
45:23 refuse 44:24 requirement 33:3,13 36:12
11:1 15:4 reasonable 15:7 16:11 33:7,9 40:24 room 25:7
20:9 18:13,24 19:10 regardless 27:2 requires 29:24 routinely 31:4
21:6,17 20:5 21:3,10,20 regards 9:18 research 28:8 35:23 45:17
22:2 21:22 23:1 region 47:20,20 reserve 26:6 rubric 36:23
37:8 show 33:23 40:19 47:19,24 48:5,9 statute 3:18 4:25
35:12,16 Sebelius 1:3 3:4 showing 28:20 48:23 50:4 6:25 8:18,18
40:14,20 second 18:17 sick 39:10 Sotomayor's 10:3 11:16 12:5
45:7,7 20:7 23:22 24:6 signals 4:15 10:25 12:7,16,20 14:5
35:12 30:5 35:12 10:19 11:10 sovereign 14:22 26:21,24 27:21
41:17 42:12,16 significant 18:20 14:23 15:12 29:4 33:15 34:4
47:3 similarly 16:7 speaking 4:11 40:15 42:6,6
36:16 17:1,6 26:13,15 25:11 43:12 7:17,22,24 9:20 16:16
26:16,22,22 single 29:14 31:8 17:3,8,24 18:1 statute's 41:20
23:20 7:23 Smith 20:14 42:15,22 44:23 structured 12:7
27:3 28:24 sees 32:7 24:23 45:16 46:21 studies 34:20
32:22 43:3 send 51:3 snowstorm 37:4 47:21 48:13 subject 29:12
12:17 sense 3:18,25 snowstorms 39:1 spend 25:21,24 submitted 18:25
16:5,9 6:17 8:7 9:24 39:8 25:24 30:23 52:25
21:11 17:8 38:23 solely 30:11 spending 26:2 53:2
28:18 39:18 44:16 Solicitor 1:16 stage 9:16 34:25 subsequent 32:9
sensible 26:25 somebody 46:4 stale 35:17 45:17
49:23 sent 20:19 50:10 stand 8:24 32:23 subsequently
Services 1:4 5:23 soon 44:22 standard 27:20 34:22
settings 36:7 sort 32:7 start 22:8 26:14 substantively
15:1 set-up 50:2 sorts 44:22 49:5 30:3
43:10,21 seven 52:12 Sotomayor 4:18 started 26:13 subtract 7:13
shadow 22:12 10:1 11:14 starting 21:13 sued 15:5,7
43:8 45:11,14 22:15 29:9,17 States 1:1,13 45:21
26:20 34:6 44:2 42:12 43:18,19 37:23 38:2,5,9 understand 8:23
47:10 51:1 49:12,17,22 touch 46:1 understandable
47:4 30:17,18 51:25 52:16,18 Treasury 3:16 understanding
15:22 thinking 18:25 trial 22:12 23:17 39:7
16:18 22:3 27:2 thinks 30:6 45:11 49:25 52:22
Thank 26:7 thought 21:12 trials 23:10,14 unpublished
31:3 36:8 theories 19:23 three-judge 34:9 triggered 41:20 15:3
44:9,20 thin 37:21 till 6:4 true 5:7 10:9 unreasonable
25:2,8,8 34:24 35:11 9:9,10 10:14 trying 12:9 36:20 50:18,19
39:10,12 43:22 11:11,11 13:9 Tuesday 1:10 untimeliness
things 8:13,21 25:21,24 26:2 turn 27:19 49:16 4:16
36:19,22 38:25 28:6,7,9,20,23 19:4 26:17 6:24 7:14 12:23
41:8 46:6 think 5:18 6:21 36:25 42:11 33:25 22:8 38:24 39:6
9:6 44:16 45:16 Type 20:16 42:2 45:9 50:1
12:8 13:11,21 timeliness 6:19 49:13 upshot 8:12
34:3 38:7 16:2,16 20:5 22:16 23:1 20:2 27:18 use 31:23
21:24 22:12,17 24:11,24 25:12 usually 38:25
50:25 27:16 28:12,13 44:23 ultimately 6:23 V
41:5 39:19 40:14,20 $160 41:5 3300aa-11 22:4
willing 14:18 4
51:16 winners 41:6 1 20:16 25:11 4(a) 30:4
withdraw50:16 10 19:19 46:19 4(c) 35:12
51:18 52:8,18 10:14 1:14 3:2 40 39:11,14
41:7,10
witnesses 48:12 11(a)(1) 26:23
worked 19:12 13-2 45:8
23:17 worried 23:7,9 15(e) 26:20
34:12 worrying 22:10 15(e)(1) 26:15,25
42:18 22:10,11 16 3:19 26:13
45:24 worst 22:2,24 45:7
51:3 52:7 wouldn't 6:16 7:2 19 1:10
51:2 19A 17:2
46:12 31:6 2
51:14,22 2(b)(2) 30:15
x 1:2,8 21:12 2(c)(2) 30:10
Y 2009 6:4,6
35:7 year 28:19 25 19:20 41:2,5
23:7,9
27:9
