IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
GIRIDHAR C. SEKHAR, :
Petitioner : No. 12-357
v. :
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 23, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:10 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
SARAH E. HARRINGTON, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SARAH E. HARRINGTON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:10 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning first in Case 12-357, Sekhar v. United
States.
Mr. Clement?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The crime of extortion under the Hobbs Act,
like the related crimes of larceny, burglary and
embezzlement, is at bottom a property crime.
Accordingly, understanding the scope of obtainable
property under the Hobbs Act is critical to deciding the
scope of the basic criminal prohibition.
The Government has offered you a definition
of property that only a prosecutor could love: Any
intangible right with economic value, but that
definition is fundamentally incompatible with this
Court's precedence and with Congress's conscious
decision in the Hobbs Act to criminalize the State --
New York State crime of extortion, but not the New York
crime of coercion.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If the jury had -- had
returned the verdict which is at JA142, and it had
marked that the attempt to extort was to extort the
commitment, you might still maybe have some causation
arguments, but I assume the property argument you're
about to make is just irrelevant.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I don't think it's
irrelevant, Justice Kennedy. I would have a different
argument. I think that I would stand first and foremost
on this Court's decision in Cleveland, where it
recognized that something like, I think the commitment,
certainly the video poker license was at issue there,
the Court also referenced an unissued patent.
And it recognized that there are things that
have value once they're issued, but in the hands of the
Government, they don't have value, and therefore don't
qualify as property.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could -- could the case
have been indicted -- has it been charged as one in
which what they were taking was the commissions that
would ultimately have been generated?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kennedy, it
might have been possible to say that what was obtained
here was money, but I think if the Government had
prosecuted it under that theory, it would have to prove
that somehow the Government paid too much. I don't
think it can point just to the commissions.
And I would analogize it to the McNally
case. In the McNally case, you know, there was this
scheme in which various sort of friends of government
officials were getting the commissions from a workmen's
compensation policy. And what this Court said is, well,
it would have been one thing if the Government had come
in and said that the Government paid commissions that
were too high, or the Government had received inferior
quality insurance.
But what the Government did there instead
was sort of take the shortcut and plead that what had
happened is, the Government had been deprived of its
interest in having the honest services -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, here, what the
Petitioner wanted were the commissions, ultimately. And
you can't commit extortion in order to get -- and that's
real money. It's for the Government to answer, not you,
but can -- do you have any idea why they didn't charge
that?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think the reason that
they didn't charge that is probably practically twofold.
One is that a commitment under New York law and practice
is not quite as what it sounds; it's not really a
commitment. And the best evidence of that is with the
last fund for this particular management company, they
got a commitment from the State and there was no
ultimate investment made.
So there's a subsequent step down the road.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I see. I see.
MR. CLEMENT: So I think that's part of it.
The other thing I would say is as in
McNally, I think they would have had to prove that the
management fees were somehow excessive or something like
that, so they didn't do that. They focused on this
recommendation.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Clement -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I took you away from
your argument about intangible property.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Clement, just along the
same lines. What you're saying is that it still would
not be extortion -- let's say somebody in your client's
position runs an investment company, wants an
investment, wants the fees that come along with that
investment. Goes to -- let's say that there's a single
person who gets to decide whether to make that
investment, and so to pay those fees, goes to that
person, threatens that person with something terrible
happening to him.
You're saying that that does not count as
extortion, that there's a reason that the Government
didn't charge it like that?
MR. CLEMENT: I would say that that -- I
would say a couple of things. I would say that's a
harder case than the one I have before you today. I
would say that I don't think that's actually extortion
if what they charge is the commitment, not the money
that goes -- that flows from the Government. And then
what I would say -- and the reason I would say that is
because of Cleveland.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, they want the
investment with -- and the fees that come with the
investment. So -- and that's why they're threatening
the person.
MR. CLEMENT: Right. And I would say that
under McNally, in that kind of case, what the Government
has to prove is that if they want to make the property
the money interest that the Government is paying out and
the person is obtaining, they have to show that there's
some sort of excessive commission or excessive sort of
management fee.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Even -- even though they
wouldn't have gotten the investment and they wouldn't
have gotten the fees absent the -- the threat of force
or -- or violence?
MR. CLEMENT: Again, that would be my
position. And I think it would follow from this Court's
decisions in cases like Cleveland and McNally, because
in McNally, of course, the people who were part of that
fraudulent scheme, they were getting commissions from
the workmen comp program.
And the Government's theory was that just
interfering with the Government's decision about who to
give the workmen -- where to place the workmen's comp
policies was enough of an interference to support a
fraud conviction. And this Court said no. And one of
the things it then said is well, it would be different
if -- if the Government went in and proved that the
commissions that were paid were too high, or that the
Government somehow got inadequate insurance.
But if all they're doing is saying that
what's going on here is sort of the interest of the
Government in having its employees serve them honestly
and in their best interest, and not in some third
party's best interest, that brings you squarely into
honest services. And nobody's saying that doing that's
a good thing, but it's -- it's the traditional office of
the State law crime of coercion. It's -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's -- the coercion
crime, at least under New York's definition, requires
force. And -- and here, it's a threat of exposure of an
embarrassing fact.
So, what -- am I right about that, that the
coercion, which is not a Federal crime but is a State
crime, requires a threat of force to restrict him of his
freedom?
MR. CLEMENT: I don't believe that's
correct, Justice Ginsburg.
This was charged by New York State
authorities as coercion. So the very crime that
Congress didn't incorporate into the Hobbs Act, the New
York crime of coercion, was charged here, and it's my
understanding that the New York crime of coercion, like
the earlier version of coercion in the racketeer- -- in
the Anti-Racketeering Act of 1934, like the traditional
model penal code definition of coercion -- it's the -
the threat part of it is the same as extortion.
So it covers a threat to a person or to
property. And it's been interpreted certainly to
include threats to disclose information like this.
So I think the real difference between the
crime of extortion and the crime of coercion, both as a
general matter and under New York law, is whether or not
property is obtained. And that's ultimately what's so
problematic about the Government's definition here,
because their definition is essentially the property
includes the autonomy interest of a business to operate
free from coercion.
JUSTICE ALITO: What is your definition
of -- of property? In your reply brief, you begin by
saying that you're -- you are not arguing that the
property has to be tangible and includes some forms of
intangible property.
How would you draw the line?
MR. CLEMENT: I would say that for property
to come within the terms of the Hobbs Act prohibition on
obtaining property, it has to be alienable,
transferable, moveable. That's the critical thing. So
the distinction is not between alienable and
inalienable.
A patent is an inalienable -- I mean,
rather, a patent is an intangible property right, but
it's transferable, it's obtainable, it is sellable, and
so it has the characteristics of things that I think
come within the traditional definition.
JUSTICE BREYER: What about -- what about
the mob goes to a grocer and says, you know, you're dead
or something if you sell Cheerios, and the reason is
because they have a monopoly, some other grocery who's
connected has a monopoly. And they threaten him. Now,
does that violate Hobbs Act?
MR. CLEMENT: I think -
JUSTICE BREYER: What he did was -- and
he's -- he's not going to sell Cheerios.
MR. CLEMENT: Right. I -- I would say that
that hypothetical THAT you've given me would be
coercion; it would not be extortion under the Hobbs Act.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now -- now, in fact,
they're doing it to get money, and they do get money,
but via the means of the other grocer. And there is
nothing in the words of this Act that says that the
property has to be taken from the individual whom you
coerce.
It's easy to imagine situations where the
coerced individual has a relationship, direct, special
and so forth, with the person who has the money. So
what happens when, say, the mob coerces the person
without the property so that he will do a thing such
that the person with the property gives them the
property?
MR. CLEMENT: I think, at least as I
understand your hypothetical, where the relationship
between the two parties, basically the competitors, I
would say that that's two distinct relationships.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now just make
it different. What they do is they get the assistant
bank employee and they threaten him to do such a thing
such as shout at a certain time where they know that
that shouting will lead them to be able to rob the bank.
I mean, you know, it's easy to think up.
What I can't figure out here is, is there
some requirement that the person who is coerced has to
be the same person as the person who gives them the
property. If the answer to that's no, then none of the
Government's chamber of horribles is horrible, because
there's a way around it.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think the answer to it
is, it depends. I don't think I can give you a
definitive that the -
JUSTICE BREYER: And you haven't found
anything on this. You'd be making it up now, is that
basically it?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, what -- what I would
tell you is I think the assumption of most of the cases
is that the person that is the pressure of -
JUSTICE BREYER: Is the -- is the one?
MR. CLEMENT: Is the person who's offering
up the property. This Court's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that what the word
"extort" means? You extort something from someone? It
means you get it from him, you don't get it from some
third party.
MR. CLEMENT: I think that's basically
right, Justice Scalia. What I would say, though, is I
think there's an exception to the -- at least to the
following extent, which I think it would be open to the
Government, to basically say that within an entity, if
you sort of put the pressure on one agent of the
corporation and you actually get the money from another
agent of the same corporation, that that's probably
close enough.
And so in this case, if the pressure was put
on a particular individual and they obtained like actual
cash from the Government, that might be a different
case. But, of course, here what they received was this
commitment, which I think is analogous to the video
poker license in the Cleveland case, so I don't think
that's -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But if you think the
commitment is real cash, is a real contract, real cash,
real property, right, then it wouldn't matter under
that -- under what you just said, that the threat was
made to the general counsel rather than to the final
person who issued the money, isn't that right?
MR. CLEMENT: I -- I don't disagree with
that, Justice Kagan, but I think that's because they're
all sort of agents to the same principal. And I'm not
sure you get all the way to what Justice Breyer was
suggesting, which you can sort of run it through
competitors or something like that.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Right. But you wouldn't
say, well, we're dealing with an organization, so it's
only extortion if you threaten the person who writes the
check?
MR. CLEMENT: No. I -
JUSTICE KAGAN: If you threaten the person
who makes a recommendation to the person who writes the
check, that's good enough.
MR. CLEMENT: Exactly, Your Honor. But what
I would also say is, you know, this is a real case and
there are real jury findings, and as Justice Kennedy
alluded to, there were a variety of theories of property
put in front of the jury. They were invited to circle
as many of them as they could, as many as they found
satisfied, and the only one they circled was the
recommendation.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Clement, what is -
I'm sort of trying to figure out why you're trying to
get the word "property" to do the work of the "obtain"
part of the statute, because when you answered
Justice Alito you were using the terms of "obtain" to
define property, which is in my mind a sort of strange
way to do things, okay? Property generally means value
of some sort and you don't use any of those words in
your definition.
So, what you're using in my mind, and not
illogically, is to say that the second part of the
statute has to do some work, so it has to mean that
you're taking something of value away from someone else.
That makes logical sense to me. And I understand the
second piece of your argument, which is the
recommendation -- not the recommendation, but his honest
services wasn't being given to your client, it was being
given to the employer.
So your client obtained nothing of value for
himself. He didn't get anything transferred to him.
And that -- that argument makes eminent sense to me.
And I tease it out of your brief, but I don't know why
you're trying to get our definition of "property" to do
that work.
MR. CLEMENT: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why isn't the work in
the "obtain" part?
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Sotomayor, I'm happy
to have you rule in favor of my client on "obtained" or
"property" and, as Scheidler II demonstrates, those
terms are really kind of married together. And I guess
the reason I sort of think that the "obtained" and the
"property" should be construed together is twofold.
One, structurally that's what the statute does. So when
you're talking about in the statute property that can be
obtained, I think that's a clue that you're not talking
about property in its broadest manifestation.
And you contrast that with, say, the Clayton
Act that talks about disjunctively property and -- or
property rights, and there you have a clue that Congress
means a very broad conception. When it's talking about
it in conjunction with "obtained," I think it has a
narrower ambit in mind.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So take the Government's
definition that property is anything of value.
MR. CLEMENT: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. And let's
assume, because it -- as I said, that seems to have some
sort of conceptual appeal. Then make the argument for
me.
MR. CLEMENT: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Then make your argument
for me why this isn't an obtaining.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, what I would say is
obtaining, as this Court made clear in Scheidler II, is
not some metaphysical obtaining. I mean, the argument
was made to this Court that the abortion protesters
obtained the autonomy interest of the business in -- the
clinics, in deciding whether -- who to serve and when to
serve and when to be open and when to be closed.
And this Court said no, and it said
principally that that's not obtaining, but it's -- but
it also noted, I guess you'd call it dictum, that
what -- what -- obviously, what the Hobbs Act, based on
its common law roots in extortion, is talking about is
the kind of property that can be deprived, it can then
be transferred, sold, exercised.
And I do think. Just to get the second part
of my answer out if I could, it's just -- the common law
roots here are also where you see the definition of
property can't be as broad as the Government suggests.
Because extortion is one of the classic common law
property crimes. The definition of property for
purposes of extortion ought to be the same as the
definition of property for larceny, embezzlement,
burglary.
You can't go into somebody's house and steal
their honest services or their autonomy interests. So
the kind of property you can obtain for purposes of the
Hobbs Act is that same kind of alienable, transferable,
moveable property.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose -- suppose that the
person coerced here was a -- was a corrupt person and
had put his recommendation out for bids. Okay? He
said, you know, I'll -- I'll recommend whoever pays me
the most money. Would that alter this case?
MR. CLEMENT: I don't -
JUSTICE SCALIA: If -- if then somebody
comes in and says, well, I'm not going to pay you the
money, but I'll -- I'll break your knees if you don't
recommend me, would that be extortion?
MR. CLEMENT: It would not, Justice Scalia,
and I would say because -- the State of Louisiana in the
Cleveland case, if there was a corrupt official who was
putting those video poker licenses on sale on the on the
sly, I don't think that would change the result there.
This Court said that those kind of government things do
not have value in the hands of the government. The fact
that somebody, you know, could sort of be corrupt and
therefore have a little auction on the side I don't
think changes that basic fact.
I would say, too, that there's an important
difference here between a hypothetical case where what
somebody's trying to do is kind of get something for
nothing and essentially get the benefit of the work of a
government official. But that's not what's at issue
here.
This is not a client who's trying to get -
like, you know, they wanted an opinion on how to
incorporate in the State of New York and they thought,
well, the lawyers are kind of expensive in the private
sector, so I'm just going to coerce it from this
government official. All they care about in this case
is the bottom line, thumbs up, thumbs down
recommendation.
I don't think this case would be any
different if there were an investment committee within
the State government and you had to get unanimous assent
to an investment and there was one holdout.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why isn't that -
you focused on transferability when you began. Why
isn't that completely transferable? I have leverage
against this official and if you want him to recommend
yes on your investment, you have to pay me a certain
amount of money. And you can transfer that. You've got
everybody in, say, you know, the association or whatever
and you can auction that off. It seems to me it's
perfectly transferable from the defendant to anyone
else.
MR. CLEMENT: With respect,
Mr. Chief Justice, I wouldn't think so. Now, there are
some voting rights that are transferable in that sense.
I mean, if you have a stock -- a proxy in a stock, or
something like that, that may well come within the
definition. But when you have these essentially voting
or autonomy interests that are really -- you know,
they're -- they're sort of inherently inalienable,
because this recommendation matters because it's the
general counsel and the Comptroller's Office
recommendation. And -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but the
lawyer's going to make recommendations in many other
cases as well. And if you have an application coming up
and you want a favorable recommendation, you can go to
the -- the individual that has the leverage and say, I
will pay you this much money if you can get the person
to give me a favorable recommendation. And that's
transferable from the person with the -- the leverage
to -- to someone else.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, the confident -- I may
not be understanding the hypothetical. Certainly, the
confidential information that the potential coercer has
may be transferable, and under this Court's decision in
Carpenter, that may be property. But the voting right
within the State government or the role within the State
government's internal deliberative process, that really
belongs to the general counsel, and he can't -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, just let me make
sure that I understand your position. Suppose roughly
these facts: The general counsel is threatened with
something very serious, let's say violence, unless he
makes a favorable recommendation. He does. They act on
that recommendation, it's -- it's a substantial cause in
making the investment, and the investment is made and
they get the money. Violation?
MR. CLEMENT: I would say no, but I would
say it's a much more difficult case. And the reason I
would say no is because the Government -- or I'd say
potentially no. I would still say that the Government
has to prove something more, which is that it's an
investment where there either was not the optimal
investment or they paid too high a commission. And -
and I take that from McNally.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but -- but that's a
causation argument, not whether or not you received
property.
MR. CLEMENT: Right, because -- but my point
is simply that if the Government -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But so far as the property
point in my hypothetical, if the recommendation leads to
the contract and the contract leads to the commission
and the commission means money in your pocket, that's
property.
MR. CLEMENT: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And so then we just have a
causation argument, not a property argument.
MR. CLEMENT: I think that's right. If
what's obtained is money, and that's what the Government
focuses its prosecution on, then that is -- that
satisfies the property requirement of the Hobbs Act.
JUSTICE BREYER: It has to be more property,
more money, more money in return for less services or
something than otherwise. That's what you're saying.
But I don't think that's -- I mean, right. But the
answer -- go ahead, because I -- that's the
qualification you're making, the McNally qualification.
MR. CLEMENT: Right, exactly. Exactly,
exactly. So you obtained the property, so that box is
checked, but the -- sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about -- you said
transfer, sell, but there's also exercise. And the
theory is that the defendant sought to take away the
officer's right to make this recommendation, take it
away from the officer, exercise it himself. So why
doesn't it fit -- why isn't this an intangible right
taken from one and exercised by another?
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Ginsburg, I would say
that what you've just articulated is exactly the
Government's theory, and the problem is that I can use
that same theory to take any autonomy interest and turn
it into property that can be exercised, it can be
obtained by somebody and then exercised by them in a way
different from the way that the person would otherwise
exercise it.
And whatever -- I mean, you know, we're
talking about one word in a three-word phrase in
Scheidler II. And the first thing I would say is I
think it's a mistake to read that phrase the way you
would read a statute.
But the second thing I would say is the one
thing the Chief Justice did not mean with respect to the
word "exercise" is it meant that it opened up a big gap
so you could take every coercion case and turn it into
an extortion case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is this -- there is, I
take it, no Federal crime that this conduct would fit?
You said New York State has a coercion crime which you
say this conduct might fit. But there's no Federal
crime.
MR. CLEMENT: There's -- there's no Federal
crime and that's the result of a very deliberative
decision by Congress in 1946 in enacting the Hobbs Act.
Of course, they had in front of them the model of the
Anti-Racketeering Act of 1934 that prohibited both
coercion and extortion. Congress made a conscious
decision to, in the Hobbs Act, prohibit robbery and
extortion, but not pick up the prohibition on coercion.
And so there isn't a Federal crime directly
on point, but it's a very conscious decision by
Congress. And, of course, the New York crime on point
is exquisitely on point, because not only is there a
coercion offense under New York statute, but it is an
aggravated offense if the victim is a government
official discharging their public duty.
And so this is really a situation where the
State courts have a crime that directly fits. It's
as -- I mean, it's almost amazing, because it's not just
any State; it's the State of New York. And Congress, in
passing the Hobbs Act, was looking at New York law. And
they looked at New York law and they said, New York has
a coercion prohibition and extortion prohibition.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And why did -- why did
New York -- was the New York case dropped and the State
officials urged the Government, the Federal Government,
to make this a Federal case?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I'd be happy to address
that. What happened is there were some pretrial
rulings. And one of the pretrial rulings gave the
defendant an opportunity to do some discovery on the
State government to figure out whether this was really
done in the discharge of public duties or maybe this was
sort of a political thing that was going on.
And once that State law discovery happened
into the government of Albany, all of a sudden the State
prosecution didn't seem like such a great idea anymore.
And the Federal prosecutors are just down the street, so
they were very happy to lateral it to the Federal
prosecutors and have them take it over. And because the
Federal offense doesn't have an element of interfering
with the public duty, they didn't have to worry about
the discovery.
And that is just a very concrete
illustration of the problem of over-federalizing crime,
because this -- we're talking -- this is the opposite of
the typical public corruption case where you think,
well, maybe there are people in the State government who
aren't going to -- State prosecutors won't be willing to
prosecute one of the bigs in the State government, so we
need the Federal Government to step in.
The one thing a State doesn't need extra
incentive to do is to protect the integrity of its
internal deliberative process from coercion or
extortion, for that matter. But the -- the real cost
then to having these duplicative Federal crimes, and
they were front and center in this case -- if I may
reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Harrington.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SARAH E. HARRINGTON
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. HARRINGTON: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
I'd like to start, if I could, where Justice
Kennedy began and ended, which is asking whether there
would have been extortion if the jury had found here
that what -- that the property that was obtained was the
commissions at the end of the day after the investment.
My friend Mr. Clement says no, no, no, McNally says no.
But what McNally actually said was the case
would have come out differently if the property that had
been alleged to be deprived was either money or
property, but it also said it would have come out
differently if the Commonwealth had been deprived of
control over how its money was spent. And that's the
type of property that's at issue here, control over a
property right.
Now -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Harrington, just to go
back to Justice Kennedy's -- I mean, suppose -- was
there a reason why it wasn't charged in what seems to me
to be the simpler way, which is a threat was made in
order to get an investment and in order to get fees to
put in your pocket and -- and go away with, and that's
extortion. So why wasn't it -- why wasn't that the
theory of the case?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, he was charged with
attempting to obtain the commitment, which in most cases
ends up being the investment itself. That's not what
the jury found was the property that was obtained, so
it's not the verdict that we are here defending today.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think there's an
obstacle to charging a case that way? Mr. Clement seems
to think that there's an obstacle, that even though
there's property in that case, there's some other
problem with charging the case that way.
MS. HARRINGTON: No, that's what I'm saying.
What he's saying is that the obstacle is you'd have to
prove that the State was out more money than it would
have been if it had invested in the company it wanted to
invest in. What I'm saying is no, McNally said the
result would have been different if the State had been
deprived of control, of the ability to control its
money, and that's the property that would have been
obtained in that kind of a case. Because property and
control of property are just -- are just different
aspects of the same property.
This Court has said repeatedly that
exclusive control of property is one vital aspect of
private property. And that's the -- that's the type of
property that was charged, that was -- that was obtained
in this case.
JUSTICE BREYER: The obvious problem, which
you might want to address at some point, is that -- that
if you take your definition that this recommendation,
legal recommendation, is property and the fellow said,
you know, I'm going to fix you if you don't do it, if
that's property, we're back to the honest services
statute, because anyone in government and anyone in
business, indeed everybody, has a job and those jobs
always require you to do things.
So if every time somebody threatens a person
and says, we don't want you to do the thing you're
supposed to do, we want you to do the thing like this,
well, then you're violating this property statute.
MS. HARRINGTON: But -
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, that seems very far
reaching, hard to reconcile with the abortion case -
the abortion clinic case, etcetera, and it is easy to
reconcile with the honest services case.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, I guess I would have
two points. The first is that this is not about honest
services, because the victim here is not the State of
New York, it wasn't the citizenry of New York. That's
the kind of -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I mean, that sounds
technical. You see, the problem I'm interested in is,
by accepting your definition do we suddenly throw within
the statute, which speaks of property, any time there is
an appropriate threat which has as a condition the
person doing the job differently? That's true of
whether it's a postman, you know, any public official,
any private official, anybody.
MS. HARRINGTON: Whatever -
JUSTICE BREYER: That seems very
far-reaching. So -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just to add to
Justice Breyer's question, it's -- suppose the
secretary/typist is -- the stenographer is charged with
typing the letter "I do not recommend" and they bribe
her and she says "I recommend." She has an interest in
her integrity to give an honest transcription. Under
your view, and this is what Justice Breyer is getting
at, I think, that -- that secretary has property that
you are taking. That's very far-reaching.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, I want to separate
again the question of what is property and when property
is obtained. Under the Hobbs Act -- the Hobbs Act
absorbed the New York State extortion law. And in
that -- in the -- in the cases construing that law, they
had construed the word "property" to include the running
of a business, the engagement of a person in their
occupation, and the doing of a job. People have
property interests in doing those things because those
are the source of economic wealth for those people.
They generate a stream of revenue for people to live
their lives on.
Now, it's a different question -- not every
time you interfere with someone's doing of their job are
you obtaining that property. Here, what Petitioner was
trying to do was not keep the general counsel from
making a recommendation; he was attempting to dictate
the substance of what the recommendation was.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I understand that.
But I still would like an answer to my question, and
it's well-phrased with an example by Justice Kennedy.
Every secretary in the United States who is
about to write a recommendation for somebody to go to
college or some other thing then is faced with a threat,
you put in name such-and-such or put in yes instead of
no, and is under your definition that person's property,
that what she does the taking of property? The answer
is either you think yes, in which case I would like you
to defend it -
MS. HARRINGTON: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Or the -- yes. Okay. Then
what conceivable ground? I'm not -- I don't want to -
that sounds a little pejorative, but I'll say: What
ground is there for a definition that is so broad that
it sweeps within it all working people in the United
States in the performance of their ordinary jobs?
MS. HARRINGTON: The ground is the general
particularized meaning that the word "property" has
obtained in the law, and including in New York cases
construing the very law on which the Hobbs Act was
based.
A person has a property interest in running
their business. They also have a property interest in
doing their job. When -- when someone comes along and
uses threats of harm or threats of force or violence to
try to get them to do their job in a different way, what
they are doing is they are taking control of that
property interest that the person has.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what is -- I have a
property interest in doing my job? I don't know what
that means. I mean, just throwing words around. You
are calling doing a job a property interest. Normally
when I think of property, I think of something that can
be conveyed. Can I convey the -- the doing of my job to
somebody else?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, you can convey your
labor to your employer in that sense. When you enter an
employment contract, you are selling your labor to your
employer. And the -- the extent of your right to do
that job is then defined by the parameters of your job.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But I'm not talking about
my labor. I'm talking about my doing the job that the
employer has assigned to me.
MS. HARRINGTON: But that is your labor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not my -- not my labor
in the abstract. Nobody is taking my labor away from
me.
MS. HARRINGTON: But in this case what
Petitioner was trying to take was the fruits of the
general counsel -- counsel's labor. His job was to give
his recommendation to his client about what was in
keeping with the client's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can you cite me one -- one
extortion case at common law -- or let me put it another
way. What is the closest extortion case at common law
that you can allude to?
MS. HARRINGTON: I can't, because at common
law the person -
JUSTICE SCALIA: We -- we are using a common
law term here, "extortion."
MS. HARRINGTON: Yes, but it was a different
crime at common law, because it only involved public
officials taking money or other thing of value in
exchange for doing something -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Whatever. What's the
closest that comes to this abstract "the doing of my job
is property"?
MS. HARRINGTON: I don't have an example of
that, but what I do have are examples from the New York
cases which were construing the New York State extortion
law, and this Court has noted again and again that
that's the basis for the Hobbs Act. Congress was
explicitly trying to evoke that law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what's the closest
New York case?
MS. HARRINGTON: So I think there are two
cases. The Barondess case and the Short case are the
best cases. And in the Barondess case, which is from
1893, I think, the -- the Court said that the running of
a business was property. And in the Short case the
Court said that, just the same way that the running of a
business is property, a person's doing their job is
property, and that that can be damaged -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How was it -- could you
tell us a little more? How was it taken?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, in those cases the
property wasn't taken. Under the New York extortion
law, the law used "property" in two different places,
and this is noted in our brief. First, it was something
that could be taken, that could be obtained through
extortion; and second, it was -- one of the means of
committing extortion with doing violence to property, it
was harming property. And the court was construing
property -- in those cases, it was -- it was in the
latter sense of what qualified as harm to property.
But the court said in the Short case, which
is from 1911 -- the court noted that property is used
in -- in both provisions, Section 850 and Section 851,
and said it was construing it as it was used in both of
those sections. And in that -- that was the case that
said doing a person's job, the person has a property
interest in doing their job.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Harrington, go back to
the Scheidler example, because that was a case where we
said there was not extortion when there were threats of
violence meant to close down an abortion clinic's
operations. What you are suggesting is that if those
threats of violence had been targeted at the abortion
clinic's lawyer in order to get him to tell the clinic
to shut down their operations because they were a
violation of law, that it would be an entirely different
case. Now, how could that be?
MS. HARRINGTON: We -- that's absolutely
what we are saying, in the same way that we said that if
the target of the -- if the -- if the protesters, excuse
me, had been trying to get the clinics, if they had been
trying to take over the clinics and get them to provide
a different type of service, to get them to be a
restaurant or to provide a different type of medical
service, then they would have been obtaining the right
of the -- of the clinic the right to run -- to operate
their business.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So -- so you think if -- if
they targeted the -- the clinic's lawyer or the -- if
the threats were, Don't shut down the clinic; instead,
start delivering babies, that that would be extortion,
whereas in the real case it wasn't?
MS. HARRINGTON: Yes, because Scheidler came
out the way it did not because there wasn't property at
issue, but because there wasn't an obtaining. And I do
think it's important to try to keep those two things
separate.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, because there
wasn't -- and there's nothing obtained either way. I
mean, you are trying to change what the person is doing,
but you are not getting anything from it.
MS. HARRINGTON: But you are dictating the
substance of what they are doing, and so you are
obtaining their right to exercise their property right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that -- that's the
problem with your New York cases as well. You -- you
are focusing on property in another context, where the
property is harmed, not whether property is taken.
You -- you have neither a New York case nor any other
common law case involving extortion where the property
taken consists of somebody's doing his job.
MS. HARRINGTON: It's true, but the New
York courses -- the New York cases said that they were
construing the word "property" to mean the same thing as
used -- used in both places in the statute.
And there is no reason to -- to define the
word "property" to include the concept of being
obtainable, because the statute already separately
requires that property be obtained before there is
extortion.
Just, if I can just note that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure that
obtainable property and -- and harmable property are one
and the same thing, I'm really not.
MS. HARRINGTON: They might not be, but they
are both -- but property is property. That's our
position, that there is a legal meaning of property, it
includes the right to run a business, the right to -- to
engage in an occupation. In a particular instance that
property may not be obtainable and then there won't be a
Hobbs Act violation. But you don't have to read the
obtainability into the definition of "property."
It's the same thing. The Hobbs Act also
says that you can commit a violation by committing
physical violence against property. Now, in their
opening brief, Petitioner said, well, if something can't
be physically harmed, it can't be property. We are
happy to see in the reply brief they sort of gave that
up by saying, "Okay, yeah. Well, business secrets are
property. A patent is property. Those things can't be
physically harmed.
But there is no reason to read "property"
means different things. If something can't be
physically harmed, it won't be the basis for liability
under that provision of the Hobbs Act.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are -- you are
contradicting what you yourself said a little bit
before, which is that property means the same thing for
both provisions -
MS. HARRINGTON: No, that's exactly what I'm
saying.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- for both the obtaining
and the harming.
MS. HARRINGTON: That's exactly -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it doesn't mean the
same thing for the harming, because there is some
property that can't be harmed.
MS. HARRINGTON: Right. But that doesn't
mean that property means something different. It just
means if it's property that can't be harmed, then it -
it won't be a basis for liability under that provision.
I'm just saying you don't want to give a
different definition to the same word used different
times in the same statute, when the concept is -- is -
where the work is carried by other words in the statute.
I think if I could point to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I -- going back a
little bit to Justice Breyer's question, how do you gain
possession of someone's advice or how they do their job
when it's not giving you a direct benefit; it's
something that belongs to someone else?
MS. HARRINGTON: What you are doing is -
what happened in this case is Petitioner was attempting
to obtain control over the fruits of the general
counsel's labor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the problem, this
obtaining controlled concept.
MS. HARRINGTON: Right, so what -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because you're -- you're
equating taking control with possession. And that's
where I'm having difficulty.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, this Court has
repeatedly said that property and exclusive control of
property are just different aspects of the same thing.
They're different sticks in the bundle that make up the
property.
Here, what Petitioner was trying to do was
he was trying to dictate the substance of the
recommendation, and in doing so, he was trying to
exorcise the General Counsel's right to make the
recommendation, his right to do his job, and that was
his property. He wasn't just trying to keep him from
going to work; he was trying to literally dictate what
the recommendation was. And that's how it was charged
in the indictment, that's what the jury found. That was
where the obtaining came in.
The -- the concept of property and control
of property is well illustrated by this Court's decision
in Carpenter. There the property -- one of the pieces
of property at issue was confidential business
information, which was taken from The Wall Street
Journal.
But it wasn't -- it wasn't really taken from
The Wall Street Journal because The Wall Street Journal
still had the information at the end of the day. What
the Court found was taken from The Wall Street Journal
was the ability to control, to have the exclusive
control over the information.
JUSTICE BREYER: As I think about it in
terms of the New York cases, as you write them up here,
it sounds as if someone was trying to get control of a
business. So I think business, land, labor, and
capital. All right. I can see why somebody who's
trying to get control of a whole business is trying to
take land, labor and capital. There may be no land
there, but so what. And -- but a person's trying to
take control of another's job by just telling him what
to do 2 percent of the time seems well across some kind
of line.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, I mean, you might
have an obtaining question if it's only 2 percent of the
time.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. No attaining
question. I'm just thinking is it reasonable to call a
secretary doing one job which takes 3 percent of her
time that hour property, in a way is that different from
taking control of Macy's -
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, you should -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and -- and it seems to
me that probably it is.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, I guess -- I mean,
it's sort of two -- two different kinds of responses.
One is that when you're asking if something is property,
you want to look at it sort of on a class-wide or
aggregate basis. If you have one, single unauthorized
download of a copyrighted song, that's not necessarily
going to cause harm to the record company -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, I'm not worried
about copyrights or other intangibles.
MS. HARRINGTON: No, I understand.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's not the issue.
MS. HARRINGTON: But I'm just saying you
want to look at something in the aggregate on a
class-wide basis, and persons doing their job on a
class-wide basis is something that is economically
valuable to them. And therefore, it's property.
I lost track of what my second response was
going to be.
So anyway, the -- the Hobbs Act clearly was
targeted -- was trying to get at racketeering activity;
it was trying to get at organized crime families. And
Congress knew that one of the main means that organized
crime families use was taking control of businesses.
Now, those cases might seem easier, because
taking control of a brick and mortar business may seem
more obviously like property than taking control of a
person's occupation or their job. But a person's right
to labor is economically valuable to them and is
property to them in the same way that the running of a
business is.
Now, Petitioner's view would -- if it -- I
mean, his real view is that he'd want to wipe out the
heartland of Hobbs Act organized crime prosecutions, but
I think his fallback position is that he would want to
wipe out any extortion of a business that provides
services instead of providing a tangible good. But that
doesn't make sense either.
If Petitioner had threatened harm to a
plumber if the plumber didn't come and -- and fix his
leaky faucet, he would have been extorting that
plumber's labor, and the same thing for a gardener, if
he tried to get a gardener to come and mow his lawn.
Now, he wouldn't end up with anything tangible at -- at
the back end, but what he would have taken from those
laborers would be their right to labor, their right
to -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, yes, he would have
ended up with something intangible in those
hypotheticals. He would have ended up with the mowed
lawn. He would have ended up with the thing that the
service was providing them.
MS. HARRINGTON: But he wouldn't -
JUSTICE KAGAN: The -- the problem here is
that there is no obtaining of anything that the person
is getting from your theory.
MS. HARRINGTON: It's the same kind of
obtaining here, because he wouldn't take the mowed lawn
from the -- from the gardener, he wouldn't take a lack
of leaking from the plumber. What he's taking from them
is their services in order to get a particular result.
It's the same thing here; he's trying to
take from the General Counsel his service of making a
recommendation that's in his client's best interest and
he's trying to dictate the substance of the
recommendation to try to get him to give a particular
recommendation, a positive recommendation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is that valuable to me?
Why is it valuable to me -- I can see how the job is
valuable to me. I get paid to do the job. But why
making one recommendation rather than another is
valuable to me? I don't think it's valuable to me.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, that's what I'm
saying -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's only because I'm an
honest person that I want to make the proper
recommendation, but to say that it has any economic
value that I recommend A rather than B? It's -- it's
totally neutral whether one is -- is more economically
valuable than the other.
MS. HARRINGTON: It has economic value
because the lawyer's job is to give his advice in
keeping with his client's best interest. It's the same
thing as the record company. A single unauthorized
download -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's all very true and an
honest lawyer should do that, but that doesn't prove
that it's economically valuable for the lawyer to give
the right advice rather than the wrong advice.
MS. HARRINGTON: It is. If Petitioner had
tried to blackmail the General Counsel every week to
give a different recommendation than what he wanted, the
result would have been the General Counsel would have
lost his job. He would have lost his stream of revenue.
He might have been disbarred.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I see. I see.
MS. HARRINGTON: That's economically
valuable to him. It's the same thing as a single
download of a -- of a record that might not cause
economic harm to a record company, but it's still taking
property, because in the aggregate, the rights of that
copyright or trademark have -- the property right has
value to the record company.
It's important to keep in mind the factual
scenario here. Here, Petitioner was trying to use
blackmail to coerce a State agent into doing something
that was against his -- his will in order to get a
$35 million investment from the State. Now, again, this
might seem like a harder case than if he was trying to
coopt the running of a brick and mortar business, but
what he was trying to do is coopt an individual's doing
of his job. He's trying to dictate the substance of the
recommendation. In doing that, he's obtaining property
from the victim.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Harrington, I guess I'm
just confused, and this goes back again to
Justice Kennedy's initial question, why it wasn't
charged in a much simpler way where the property is not
a right by a lawyer to do his job, which seems no other
person can get, but where the property was the contract,
was the -- was the investment and the fees, and the
theory was that a threat was used in order to get that
investment and fees.
And why wasn't -- why isn't that just -- you
know, I look at the facts here and I say extortion, but
not on your theory, on my theory. And why wasn't that
simple theory used?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, it was charged on
several different theories, and one of the theories was
that he was trying to gain the commitment to the
investment. Now, the jury was given choices. The jury
circled the lawyer's positive recommendation as the
property that was obtained. I assume that's because the
evidence in the case, the e-mails from Petitioner to
General Counsel talked about the recommendation and so
that was a tangible thing in the jury's mind.
It was sort of that there was a really
direct connection between what Petitioner was saying,
what he was trying to do, and the recommendation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is what -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you don't think that
there's any reason why it, in a future case, it couldn't
be charged just the way I said it?
MS. HARRINGTON: I don't think -- I think it
could have been charged that he was trying to get the
money here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was that one of the choices
the jury had?
MS. HARRINGTON: That he was trying to get
commitment; that was one of the choices. What they
circled was the recommendation. Now, who knows why a
jury does anything. I assume, like I said, it's because
that was what the e-mails were about, they were about
the recommendation.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I didn't think they
circled recommendation. They circled his honest advice,
didn't they?
MS. HARRINGTON: No, they circled -- it says
the General Counsel's recommendation -- this is on the
JA 142. That's where it -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.
MS. HARRINGTON: JA 142. What they circled
was the General Counsel's recommendation to approve the
commitment. And I think that wording is very helpful to
us, because it's not just that he's trying to obtain a
recommendation from the General Counsel. He's trying to
obtain a particular recommendation, the recommendation
to approve the commitment. I think that encapsulates
both the property and the obtaining that is the theory
of our case.
The General Counsel's job was to give his
legal advice. The Petitioner was trying to dictate the
substance of that legal advice. His property interest
was in doing his job. The General Counsel -- the
Petitioner was trying to take control of the doing of
the job, and therefore trying to take the General
Counsel's property.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It -- it does seem to me
important that you can't give us a common law case
because common law is extortion -- at common law is
extortion, it's usually the other way around. It's
usually the official who's doing the extorting.
MS. HARRINGTON: It was always the official
who was doing the extorting.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: At -- at common law, could
anyone ever extort an official, or we just don't have
those cases?
MS. HARRINGTON: No. At common law, it was
only limited to acts by an official. There was no -
and -- and the Court has recognized that when Congress
enacted the Hobbs Act, it expanded the -- the reach of
extortion in that sense, in the same way that New York
did when it enacted the State extortion law.
And I do think it's important to keep in
mind that the -- the Hobbs Act is based on the New York
law and we don't want to just ignore the New York cases
that construe the word "property" to mean the running of
a business and the doing of a job.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But not the obtaining of
property.
MS. HARRINGTON: But it wasn't -- I mean,
it's true there weren't cases -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's true. Not the
obtaining the property, right?
MS. HARRINGTON: I concede that point. I
concede that point. But it was -- it was defining the
word "property" and that property is used twice. And
so, again, it's a separate question here whether the
property was obtained. We think it's clear that there
was property. We think it's clear the property was
obtained as well, but those are two separate questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You -- you point
out, of course, that it was based on the New York law,
but what do you do with the point that they did not
carry forward the separate crime of coercion, which was
in the New York law but not in the Hobbs Act?
MS. HARRINGTON: That's true -- I mean, it
was a separate crime of coercion. There was a separate
crime of coercion under New York law. I think, you
know, the Congress conceived of the Hobbs Act as a
property -- as a crime of -- against property, and so it
didn't want to include coercion. It included extortion
and robbery.
Of course, every extortion crime -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you do with
the fact that the State authorities did charge it under
coercion?
MS. HARRINGTON: In this case. Well, I
think it's important to note, and Petitioner doesn't
mention this, that the attempted extortion charge he was
initially charged with was a misdemeanor and the
attempted coercion charge he ultimately ended up being
charged with in State law was a felony. So I think that
explains what was going on there.
And it's a good example -- it's a good
illustration of why it's hard to judge ex-post what
happened, you know, what was motivating different
charging decisions.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you think would be
covered by coercion that wouldn't be covered by the
Government's extortion theory here?
Give me an example of -- of coercion?
MS. HARRINGTON: Anything that doesn't
involve property. So if you're trying to coerce -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, for example -
MS. HARRINGTON: So, trying to coerce
someone to marry someone they don't want.
I think, in the Scheidler case -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why isn't that
property? Why. You know, my -- my choice of marrying
whom I want, why isn't that as much property as -- as my
ability to -- to perform my job the way I want?
MS. HARRINGTON: Because it's -- I think
it's more properly viewed as a liberty interest. It's
not a source of economic value in the sort of
traditional sense. I think if you take the Scheidler
case -
JUSTICE SCALIA: A lot of people marry for
money.
(Laughter.)
MS. HARRINGTON: It's true. I walked into
that one.
I think -- so let's take the Scheidler case
for an example. There were different types of property
that were initially alleged in that case. One of them
was the right of women to access the services of the
clinic.
This Court -- this Court distinguished that
from the other alleged property interests, which were
the running of the business that was the clinic. And
the Court said that the right of women to access the
services of the clinic was really more of a liberty
interest and the running of a business was really more
of -- it didn't say it was property because it didn't
have to decide that, but it said that's really more in
the nature of property. That was the property
right alleged.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems to me you
could characterize the right to work as more of a
liberty interest than a property interest.
MS. HARRINGTON: I think it's both. And
so someone -- the general counsel could have been
coerced in this case if he had been prevented from going
to jobs, to his job. But here what Petitioner was
trying to do again was to -- to take the substance of
the job, where he was trying to take the fruits of the
labor of the general counsel by trying to dictate the
substance of the recommendation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you draw a
distinction between extorting someone not to go to work
and extorting him how to do his job once he's at work?
MS. HARRINGTON: Not on the basis of
property, but on the basis of obtaining. The former
is -- there's no obtaining and in the latter there's
obtaining because what you're doing is you are
exercising the person's right to do their job.
And the Court has said again and again that
exclusive control of property is an essential element of
all personal property, of all private property.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why -- why, just as long as
we are idly speculating, didn't you use 18 U.S.C. 875,
"Whoever with intent to extort from any person anything
of value"?
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, we did use it, and he
was -- I mean, there are five convictions under 875.
What happened is in this case we conceded that Section
875 uses the word "extort." We conceded in the court of
appeals that "extort" has the same meaning as
"extortion" under the Hobbs Act.
And so if there wasn't extortion under the
Hobbs Act, there wouldn't be -
JUSTICE BREYER: You don't have -- you don't
have property in there. You have a thing of value -
MS. HARRINGTON: That's -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- is there some -- I mean,
it just seems obvious you'd be in a much stronger
position when you say that the recommendation not to buy
or to buy a particular service from somebody is a thing
of value.
MS. HARRINGTON: That's true. In this case,
again, we have treated them as the same. But I think
you would want to reserve for another case the question
whether Section 875 -
JUSTICE BREYER: Have they in the Court been
treated as a thing of value means property?
MS. HARRINGTON: I think "thing of value" is
a broader term than "property."
JUSTICE BREYER: So no.
MS. HARRINGTON: Right. So we haven't made
an argument about 875 here. We've conceded that
whatever the result is as to the Hobbs Act would control
as to 875. But I do think that's a question for another
case if we don't prevail in this case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it -- it at least
makes available the argument that you don't have to go
this far, that there are other provisions that would
enable you to get to this person.
MS. HARRINGTON: Well, again, I don't think
we are going too far -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So why -- instead of
inducing us to define property so broadly that it's
unrecognizable, as far as I am concerned -
MS. HARRINGTON: But, Justice Scalia, you
have already defined it this broadly in cases dealing
with Section 20 of the Clayton Act, the Due Process
Clause, the scope of a court's equity jurisdiction. The
Court has said that the running of a business is
property. The Court has also said that pursuit of an
occupation is property.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We're talking about
property for purposes of extortion, the common law crime
of extortion.
MS. HARRINGTON: I hear what you're saying.
But what I am saying is that property is property. And
it's true that in extortion the property has to be
obtained for there to be a crime. That work is done by
the word "obtained."
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think property is
property. I think property can -- can have a -- a
different meaning with -- with regard to various
provisions of the law. And -- and the provision of the
law defining extortion brings with it a whole baggage
of -- of common law cases. And that may well be
different from the word "property" used in some other
Federal statute that does not invoke the common law of
extortion.
MS. HARRINGTON: But this Federal crime of
extortion brings with -- brings with it the baggage of
the New York State extortion law, and the New York cases
said in that law the word "property" includes the
running of a business and doing a job.
It's true that that wasn't the property
being extorted in those cases, but that's what they said
property means. And if you are worried that those
things can't be obtained, you don't need to worry -- you
don't need to have a special definition of property to
take care of that, because the Hobbs Act already
requires that property be obtained before there is
extortion, so there is no need to have a redundancy
built in for that.
Again, I can understand how -- how the main
Hobbs Act, sort of heartland cases which involve the
co-opting of a brick and mortar businesses, seem like
easier cases. And you might want to draw a line between
the running of a business and the doing of labor.
But a person has a property interest in
doing their job the same way that they have a property
interest in running a business. The fact that they work
for someone else shouldn't mean that they have less of
an interest in doing their job than if they run their
own business.
Doing a job is a source of economic value to
a person and the Court should construe it as property,
and the right to exercise control over doing their job
is also property.
If the Court has no questions?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Clement, 5 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
A couple of points in rebuttal.
Ms. Harrington started by pointing to the
language in McNally. And she is absolutely correct that
at the same time that McNally got rid of the honest
services prosecution that was brought there, they
reserved two possible prosecutions. One would be the
obtaining of money, where there was a difference in what
the government paid for and what the government got.
The other thing that she alludes to is
there -- the Court did say, well, maybe there's a
possibility that you could prosecute based on the
government's loss of control over its allocation of
these workman's comp policies.
The problem is, of course, that McNally
precedes Cleveland. And in Cleveland, the government
seized on that language and said, well, even if the
video poker license isn't property, the right to control
who gets it is property, and that got exactly zero votes
from this Court. So I think that argument is no longer
viable.
Ms. Harrington also points to these New York
cases about the scope of property for purposes of 851 of
the New York Penal Code. But of course, what we're
talking about is 850 of the New York Penal Code, the
kind of property that can be obtained. I think it's
common ground that -- they are not co-extensive. There
are -- there is property that you can obtain that you
can't threaten.
Indeed, the classic thing you obtained in -
in an extortion case is money, and I'm not sure how you
really threaten money. You can threaten to take money
from someone, but you don't really threaten the money.
So these are different terms.
So relying on the Barondess case, which is
the same case that Justice Stevens relied on in dissent
in Scheidler II just doesn't work.
Now, she's also absolutely correct that
extortion at common law only involved official
extortion, but that doesn't mean that there aren't
common law places to look for a relevant definition of
property. Because the same basic concept was in the
larceny statutes, the -- not statutes, the common law
crime of burglary, larceny, and embezzlement.
And indeed to this very day, New York refers
to extortion as larceny by extortion. And if you go to
those New York cases, the place I would point you to is
the Ashworth case, which is cited in both of our briefs.
This is a case that makes very clear that under New York
law, they didn't even think that services at all were
property.
This is a case where the foreman of a mill
gets the bright idea that he's going to do some work for
his own company using the mill's facilities. And he's
charged with larceny.
And the court in that case says: No, that's
not larceny, you didn't obtain any goods. Classic sort
of common law property is in order to be the kind of
property that you can steal or extort it has to be
moveable. One of the elements of the common law crime
is exportation, removing it -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Clement, when you
finish -
MR. CLEMENT: And if I can just sort of put
the point: They say all of that and they reject that
argument. And they use a line which I think really
captures what's going on here. They say, well, maybe
you can conceive of such a conception of property, but
they say to conceive this requires a certain
intellectual flexibility which is probably not possessed
by the average person. And I would simply submit it
also is not the kind of flexibility that should be
possessed by the average judge in a criminal case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let -- look, I think if
we take your argument to its logical conclusion, what
you are telling us is, do away with the Second Circuit's
Tropiano decision, and the large progeny of cases that
come from it.
The most common is the threat to a business
that says pull out of this market because we don't want
you in it. And we want all the customers. And courts
routinely have said that's a Hobbs Act violation.
You're using the threat of force to tell people to keep
out of a particular market.
Today you are telling us that under your
theory of the Hobbs Act and your definition of property,
that doesn't count as a Hobbs Act violation.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, a couple of things,
Justice Sotomayor. I went back to the Tropiano case,
because it is sort of the pro genitor of this whole line
of Second Circuit cases, and I noticed two things.
One, I noticed it was written by a district
court sitting by designation. So, I mean, I -- I don't
mean anything by that other than this is not Marbury.
Second, I would say that the second thing I
noticed is that the debt -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Oh, I think when I sat
as a district court judge, I would have been insulted by
that.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, it's not -- it's a good
thing you're no longer sitting in that capacity, Your
Honor -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Okay. It's really -
MR. CLEMENT: -- because I -- I certainly
mean you no offense. You could write Marbury here.
So the -- the difference is, Your Honor,
that that could have also been, I think, actually
prosecuted as a property crime, because in that case,
there were customer accounts that were obtained, and
those customer accounts, as the facts of Tropiano
discussed it, actually had value; they could have been
transferred from one business to another.
So I think what would happen in the Second
Circuit, if you decide this case the way we would like
you to, is the Government's going to have to be careful.
They're going to have to write their indictments to
focus on things like money or obtainable property, and
they can't get sloppy and put together these autonomy
interests and call them property.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:09 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
ahead 22:16 57:13 58:9 60:5 46:5 61:3 54:17
35:6,8 10:14 18:1 articulated 23:4 Barondess 34:2 bribe 29:25
62:13 alleged 26:22 asking 26:15 based 17:10 45:24 56:22
59:2 allude 33:6 aspects 28:7 basic 3:16 18:22 briefs 59:12
alter 18:7 assigned 32:18 12:17 13:3,7 56:7,7
analogize 5:2 19:22 began 19:17 broadest 16:8
10:11 another's 41:2 16:19 46:22 behalf 1:15,19 brought 57:20
16:10 answer 5:18 12:9 47:16 2:4,7,10 3:8 built 56:19
18:1 21:8 12:12 17:15 assumption 26:11 57:14 bundle 39:20
24:3,5,7 22:16 30:25 12:19 believe 9:7 burglary 3:12
30:8,8 31:7 attaining 41:8 belongs 21:3 17:22 59:8
33:22 answered 14:25 attempt 4:2 39:6 business 10:2
38:5 Anti-Racketee... attempted 50:19 benefit 19:1 39:5 17:4 28:20
49:5,9 9:15 24:5 50:21 best 5:25 8:19,20 30:12 31:23
53:23,25 anybody 29:18 attempting 27:13 34:3 44:3,22 34:5,7 35:22
55:9 anymore 25:11 30:22 39:8 bids 18:5 37:13,24 40:10
60:21 anyway 42:9 auction 18:21 big 23:18 40:22,22,24
61:1 appeal 16:20 19:23 bigs 25:24 42:15,20,25
29:15 available 54:24 box 22:19 56:22
45:3,3 April 1:9 60:12 Breyer 10:21
48:11,12
3:3,7 22:12 28:13 call 17:9 41:9
6:14 B 29:2,11,20 30:3 62:8
16:20 B 44:17 30:24 31:11 calling 32:7
17:2 babies 36:1 40:19 41:8,14 capacity 61:15
19:20 60:8 58:19 59:21 58:14 56:4 58:16 59:3
7:5,16 chamber 12:10 Clayton 16:9 coerced 11:15 26:24
change 18:17 55:9 12:7 18:4 52:22 comp 8:6,9 58:3
18:7,15 36:10 clear 17:1 49:23 coercer 20:23 company 6:1,18
19:9,12 changes 18:22 49:24 59:13 coerces 11:17 27:25 41:22
23:19,20 characteristics clearly 42:9 coercion 3:24 44:23 45:14,17
25:1,21 10:19 Clement 1:15 2:3 8:23,24 9:4,10 59:18
27:11 characterize 2:9 3:6,7,9 4:6 9:12,13,14,16 compensation
52:18 4:21 5:21 6:6 9:22 10:3 11:7 5:6
29:3,4 charge 5:19,22 6:12,15 7:3,15 23:19,23 24:6,8 competitors
31:8 32:23 7:2,7 50:15,19 8:1 9:7 10:10 24:13,22 26:3 11:23 14:5
34:2 50:21 11:2,5,21 12:12 50:4,7,8,11,16 completely 19:18
charged 4:18 9:9 12:18,22 13:3 50:21 51:4,6 Comptroller's
36:2,19 9:12 27:6,12 13:25 14:10,14 college 31:4 20:10
39:8 28:11 29:24 14:22 15:21,24 come 5:7 6:19 concede 49:19
46:23 40:4 46:7,17 16:17,22,25 7:12 10:11,20 49:20
48:9,18 47:7,9 50:20,22 18:8,13 20:1,21 20:5 26:21,23 conceded 53:20
51:12,21 59:19 21:12,23 22:5,8 43:4,7 60:17 53:21 54:19
53:20 charging 27:18 22:18 23:3 24:1 comes 18:10 conceivable
27:21 51:2 25:2 26:19 31:24 33:16 31:12
check 14:9,13 27:18 57:12,13 coming 20:14 conceive 60:7,8
checked 22:20 57:15 60:1,3 commission 7:20 conceived 50:9
61:3,22 Cheerios 10:23 61:2,14,18 21:18 22:2,3 concept 37:2
11:4 Cleveland 4:9 commissions 38:24 39:12
27:13 20:2,12 23:17 18:15 58:5,5 8:5,14 26:18 conception 16:12
31:19 26:8,13 50:1,14 client 15:13,15 commit 5:17 60:7
34:2,3,11 52:17 53:3 15:25 19:4 33:1 37:19 conceptual 16:20
36:16,23 57:11,15 62:10 client's 6:17 33:2 commitment 4:3 concerned 55:6
42:14 choice 51:14 44:3,22 4:10 5:23,25 conclusion 60:14
55:8 choices 46:20 clinic 29:4 35:9 6:2 7:7 13:16 concrete 25:18
47:11,14 35:21,25 52:6,9 13:20 27:13 condition 29:15
58:12 circle 14:18 52:11 46:19 47:14 conduct 23:22,24
60:16 circled 14:20 clinics 17:5 35:16 48:3,7 confident 20:21
46:21 47:15,20 35:17 committee 19:13 confidential
24:3,6,11 corporation 13:9 co-extensive defendant 19:24 38:3,19,23,23
33:22 13:10 58:16 22:23 25:5 39:19,20 41:11
49:4 50:9 correct 9:8 57:18 co-opting 56:22 defending 27:16 41:17 45:6
18:20 9:4,5,10,12,13 defined 32:15 58:23
20:10 21:3,6 33:12 42:11,13 definition 3:17 difficulty 39:16
45:7 46:24 48:5 55:20 56:6 59:8 15:5,19 16:16 directly 24:9,17
53:1 57:11 crimes 3:12 20:6 28:15 disbarred 45:9
33:20 counsel's 32:25 criminal 3:16 37:17 38:23 discharging
36:24 39:10,25 47:23 60:12 56:15 59:5 24:15
32:13 couple 7:4 57:16 10:13 deliberative 21:2 25:17
61:2 customer 61:23 24:2 26:3 discussed 61:25
24:4,11 50:2,13 customers 60:20 demonstrates 16:10
28:3,3,6,9 court 1:1,12 3:10 D 1:15 2:3,9 3:1 depends 12:13 distinction 10:14
39:9,15,18 4:12 5:6 8:11 3:7 57:13 deprived 5:13 53:4
17:1,3,7 18:18 damaged 34:8 17:12 26:22,24 distinguished
41:2,12 26:13 28:8 day 26:18 40:15 28:3 52:7
33:21 34:4,6,18 59:9 designation 61:7 district 61:6,12
53:12 34:21,22 39:17 dead 10:22 dictate 30:22 doing 8:16,21
57:8 58:2 40:16 49:4 52:7 dealing 14:7 55:8 39:23 40:3 44:4 11:9 29:16
52:7,10 53:11 debt 61:10 46:1 48:11 53:1 30:13,14,19
60:20 8:8 20:24 24:3 different 4:7 8:12 41:10 42:4
covered 51:4,4 51:2 33:11 34:13 56:10,24 57:1,4
enacted 49:5,7 22:25 23:10,18 47:17 60:11
45:13 encapsulates exercised 17:13 F focus 62:6
ended 26:15 exercising 53:10 facilities 59:18 19:17
equating 39:15 extent 13:6 54:25 55:3,6 forms 10:7
2:6,9 12:25,25 48:25 faucet 43:5 found 12:15
essentially 10:1 59:23 favorable 20:15 27:15 40:5,16
44:16,20 etcetera 29:4 extorting 43:5 Federal 9:4 fraudulent 8:5
51:19 everybody 19:22 48:21,23 53:4,5 23:22,24 24:1,9 free 10:3
28:20 extortion 3:11,23 24:25 25:1,12 freedom 9:6
44:18 46:23 9:17,22 11:7 26:5 56:4,6 friends 5:4
evoke 33:23 14:8 17:11,18 fee 7:21 front 14:18 24:4
31:8 36:9 22:18,18,19 23:20 24:6,8,22 7:12,24 27:8 fruits 32:24 39:9
23:4 38:10,14 26:4,16 27:10 46:10,12 52:25
example 31:1 33:20 34:12,16 felony 50:22 fundamentally
52:3 42:25 46:14 final 13:23
17:21 59:8 exception 13:5 50:11,13,19 finish 60:2 G 3:1
39:18 40:17 59:10 fits 24:17 general 1:18
excuse 35:15 ex-post 50:25 fix 28:17 43:4 20:10 21:3,6
39:9,25 gotten 7:23,24 37:22 38:1,4,17 holdout 19:15 including 31:19
45:5,7 government 3:17 38:20 honest 5:14 8:21 incompatible
47:23 4:15,23,25 5:4 harming 34:18 15:12 17:24 3:20
5:7,8,9,11,13 38:13,16 28:18 29:5,7 incorporate 9:11
52:21 5:18 7:1,8,16 Harrington 1:17 30:2 44:15 45:1 19:6
7:18 8:13,15,18 2:6 26:9,10,12 47:20 57:19 indicted 4:18
36:11 25:6,10,22,24 34:11 35:3,13 hour 41:11 individual's
25:25 28:19 36:3,12,22 house 17:23 45:25
22:21 23:3 government's 38:18 39:7,13 11:6,22 18:24 inferior 5:9
24:23 8:7,8 9:25 39:17 41:5,13 20:22 22:1 information 9:20
12:10 16:15 41:16,25 42:2 hypotheticals 20:23 40:11,15
30:2 great 25:11 46:4,17 47:8,13 I initial 46:6
38:22 grocer 10:22 47:22 48:1,22 idea 5:19 25:11 initially 50:20
45:2,6 11:10 49:2,15,19 50:6 59:17 52:4
51:6 grocery 10:24 50:17 51:7,10 idly 53:15 instance 37:14
46:20 31:17 58:16 53:6,18 54:3,9 II 16:1 17:1 insurance 5:10
27:4,9 H hear 3:3 55:17 illustration 25:19 23:1 43:13
35:3 53:4 hands 4:14 18:19 heartland 42:23 50:25 intangibles 41:24
59:10 happen 62:2 56:21 imagine 11:14 integrity 26:2
46:5 25:3,9 39:8 high 5:9 8:14 36:6 45:18 intellectual 60:9
19:8 happening 6:24 Hobbs 3:11,15 50:18 interest 5:14
25:8,23 happens 11:17 3:22 9:11 10:11 inadequate 8:15 7:18 8:17,19,20
39:2 40:3 happy 15:24 25:2 11:1,7 17:10 inalienable 10:15 10:2 17:4 23:6
42:8 25:13 37:23 18:1 22:11 24:3 10:16 20:8 30:1 31:22,23
52:22 hard 29:3 50:25 24:7,20 30:8,8 incentive 26:2 32:3,5,7 35:2
59:17 60:6 harder 7:5 45:23 31:20 33:22 include 9:20 44:3,22 48:12
harm 31:25 37:16,18 38:5 30:11 37:2 51:18 52:12,19
50:24,24 43:3 45:14 50:5,9 53:23,25 included 50:11 57:2,4
harmable 37:8 54:20 56:16,21 includes 10:2,7 interested 29:12
30:14 52:8 44:21 45:8 46:1 39:2,3,11,14 knees 18:11 lawyer 35:9,24
46:8 48:10,13 40:19 41:8,14 knew 42:12 45:1,2 46:8
53:5,10 56:10 44:14,25 45:10 15:18 18:6,20 44:21 46:21
jobs 28:20 31:16 47:11,19,25 23:11 28:17 leads 22:1,2
Journal 40:12,14 49:17 50:1,14 46:14 50:9 51:1 leaky 43:5
55:10 55:22 57:11,15 labor 32:12,13 16:18 21:7 52:2
jury 3:25 14:16 58:25 60:1,13 32:17,19,20,21 leverage 19:18
14:18 26:16 61:3,11,17 32:25 39:10 20:16,19
27:15 40:5 62:10 40:22,25 42:18 liability 38:4,21
27:8,14 46:20,20 47:12 43:6,10 53:1 liberty 51:18
46:10,12 47:16 K 56:24 52:11,19
jury's 46:25 Kagan 6:12,15 laborers 43:10 license 4:11
6:12,13,15 7:11 36:8 43:12,18 58:6 line 10:9 19:10
10:4,21 11:3,8 keep 30:21 36:6 17:21 59:7,8,10 61:4
36:5 40:10 14:22 15:1,22 44:22 Laughter 51:24 34:10 38:7 39:3
15:24 16:15,18 Kennedy 3:25 law 5:23 8:23 live 30:16
19:16 20:2,12 6:5,13 14:16 17:18 24:20,21 logical 15:10
22:6 21:4,20,25 22:6 25:9 30:9,10 60:14
31:24 29:2,11,20,22 kind 7:16 16:2 48:18,19,19,24 46:14 59:5
29:23 30:3,24 17:12,25 18:1 49:2,7,10 50:2 60:13
31:1,11 32:4,16 18:18,25 19:7 50:5,8,22 55:15 looked 24:21
34:7 35:1 32:20 33:3,9,15 28:5 29:10 41:3 55:25 56:1,2,4 looking 24:20
36:21 39:4 33:24 34:9 35:3 43:21 58:15 56:8,9 59:3,5,7 loss 58:2
41:2,10 35:23 36:8,15 59:22 60:11 59:14,22,24 lost 42:7 45:8,8
44:8,9 37:7 38:6,12,15 kinds 41:17 lawn 43:7,15,22 lot 51:22
56:13 necessarily 22:19 23:8 opened 23:18
22:17 17:2 neutral 44:18 49:23,25 55:20 35:10
44:2,10 mill 59:16 New 3:23,23 55:21 56:14,17 opinion 19:5
7:21 mill's 59:18 9:11,13,23 19:6 obtaining 7:19 opposite 25:20
16:14 45:18 24:19,20,21,21 17:1,2,8 30:20 oral 1:11 2:2,5
26:4 money 4:23 5:18 58:11,13,14 54:5 14:7
7:7,18 11:9,9 59:9,11,13 obviously 17:10 organized 42:11
7:16 8:3,4 20:17 21:11 note 37:6 50:18 37:14 42:17 over-federalizi...
22:17 22:3,9,13,13 noted 17:9 33:21 55:13 25:19
28:1 26:22,25 27:24 34:14,22 offense 24:13,14
58:4 28:4 33:13 noticed 61:5,6,10 25:15 61:19 P
17:2 20:4 57:22 58:20,21 O offering 12:22 PAGE 2:2
23:11,17 58:21,22 62:6 O 2:1 3:1 office 8:22 20:10 paid 4:25 5:8
27:5 monopoly 10:24 obstacle 27:18 officer 22:25 8:14 21:18 44:9
32:6 10:25 27:19,23 officer's 22:24 57:23
38:15 morning 3:4 obtain 14:24 15:1 official 18:15 parameters
41:5,16 mortar 42:15 15:23 17:25 19:2,9,19 24:15 32:15
49:11,15 45:24 56:22 27:13 39:9 48:4 29:17,18 48:21 part 6:6 8:4 9:17
53:19 54:4 motivating 51:1 48:6 58:17 48:22,25 49:3 14:25 15:7,23
59:4 61:7 moveable 10:13 59:21 59:3 17:14
18:2 59:24 obtainability officials 5:5 particular 6:1
53:22 mowed 43:14,22 obtainable 3:14 Oh 45:10 61:11 43:25 44:5 48:6
10:18 37:3,8,15 okay 15:3 18:5 54:7 60:23
13:1 15:3 N 2:1,1 3:1 obtained 4:22 61:17 31:18
22:3 32:6 name 31:5 9:24 13:13 once 4:14 25:9 parties 11:23
37:25 46:23 47:2 39:15 9:24 10:1,5,7,8 55:18,19,22,23
57:13 52:23 57:14 possible 4:22 11:12,18,19,20 56:13,15,17,25
20:17 42:21 postman 29:17 14:17,24 15:2,3 58:12,15,17
pick 24:8 precedence 3:21 20:25 21:22,25 58:1
pieces 40:9 pressure 12:20 22:19 23:7 61:22
51:22 place 8:9 59:11 13:8,12 26:17,21,23 prosecution
places 34:13 pretrial 25:3,4 27:1,2,15,20 22:10 25:11
plead 5:12 prevented 52:22 28:11,16,18,25 prosecutions
43:24 28:10 29:18 31:23 32:3,5,7 25:12,14,23
7:14,19 pocket 22:3 27:9 pro 61:4 34:7,8,12,13 protesters 17:3
11:16,17 point 5:1 21:23 probably 5:22 34:17,18,19,20 35:15
12:7,8,8 22:1 24:10,11 13:10 41:15 34:22 35:1 36:4 prove 4:24 6:8
13:24 24:12 28:14 60:9 36:14,17,18,18 7:17 21:16
18:4 39:1 49:19,20 problem 23:5 36:20,24 37:2,4 27:24 45:1
20:17,19 50:1,3 59:11 25:19 27:21 37:8,8,11,11 proved 8:13
28:22 60:4 28:13 29:12 37:12,15,17,20 provide 35:17,19
30:12 pointing 57:17 36:16 39:11 37:22,25,25 provides 42:25
32:3 33:8 points 29:7 57:16 43:18 58:4 38:2,8,17,19 providing 43:1
36:10 58:11 problematic 9:25 38:20 39:18,19 43:16
44:15 poker 4:11 13:17 process 21:2 39:21 40:2,7,8 provision 38:5
53:16 55:1 18:16 58:7 26:3 55:9 40:9,10 41:11 38:21 55:25
57:7 policies 8:10 progeny 60:16 41:18 42:6,16 provisions 34:23
58:3 program 8:6 42:19 45:15,16 38:9 54:25
35:1 41:1 21:5 37:12 10:11 24:8,22 49:21,23,24,24 25:16,21 29:17
53:10 42:24 54:6 24:22 50:10,10 51:8 33:12
55:15 38:2 47:6 relying 58:24 52:16,18 53:10 18:10 26:19,19
reasonable 41:9 remainder 26:7 54:18 57:8 58:7 28:23 30:1
27:9 31:5 received 5:9 39:18 road 6:4 Scalia 12:24 13:4
33:4 60:3 13:15 21:21 reply 10:5 37:23 rob 12:4 18:3,9,13 32:4
recognized 4:10 require 28:21 robbery 24:7 32:16,20 33:3,9
44:17 reserve 26:7 52:17 53:3 49:13,17 51:3,9
39:3 20:15,18 21:8,9 Respondent 1:19 routinely 60:21 17:1 23:13 35:4
46:6 22:1,24 28:15 2:7 26:11 rule 15:25 36:3 51:12,20
54:11,21 28:16 30:22,23 response 42:7 rulings 25:4,4 52:2 59:1
40:1,4 44:3,5,6 restaurant 35:19 37:13 57:4 scope 3:14,16
47:3 result 18:17 24:2 31:22 34:4,6 second 15:7,11
28:2 43:25 45:7 42:19 45:24 17:14 23:16
20:13 revenue 30:16 runs 6:18 secretary 30:4
38:2 45:17 9:3 10:17 11:5 sale 18:16 secrets 37:24
56:18 13:24 14:6 26:10 53:20 54:12
26:4 referenced 4:12 16:17,18 20:25 sat 61:11 55:9
42:22 refers 59:9 21:23 22:8,15 satisfied 14:20 sections 34:25
21:2 24:16 reject 60:4 27:2 32:14 saying 6:16,25 see 6:5,5 17:16
37:9 40:13 related 3:12 35:20,21 36:14 8:16,21 10:6 29:12 37:23
52:11,12 relationship 36:14 37:13,13 22:14 27:22,23 40:23 44:8
58:21,22 11:15,22 38:18 39:13,25 28:1 35:14 45:10,10
61:17 relationships 40:1,23 42:17 37:24 38:11,22 seized 58:6
16:3 relevant 59:5 45:16 46:8 55:17,18 sell 10:23 11:4
54:7 25:6,9,10,22 support 8:10 terms 10:11 15:1
32:12 someone's 30:19 45:20,22 49:7 Supreme 1:1,12 Thank 26:8,12
43:2 49:6 39:4 50:15,22 56:8 sure 14:3 21:5 57:11,15 62:9
song 41:21 States 1:1,6,12 37:7 58:20 62:10
49:22,25 47:25 statute 14:25 46:18,18
sort 5:4,12 7:20 15:8 16:5,6 T theory 4:24 8:7
44:2 54:7 37:23 41:17,19 statutes 59:7,7 25:14 28:15 thing 5:7 6:7 8:22
15:13 56:21 59:21 stenographer 40:25 41:2 12:2 23:13,16
22:13 60:3 61:4 29:24 43:22,23 44:2 23:17 25:8 26:1
29:5,8 Sotomayor 14:22 step 6:4 25:25 48:14,15 51:20 28:23,24 31:4
52:5,11 15:22,24 16:15 Stevens 58:25 52:2,24,25 33:13 36:24
59:14 16:18,23 39:2 sticks 39:20 56:16 58:21 37:9,18 38:8,16
special 11:15 62:13 55:14 58:14 56:14 61:2,5
45:12 speculating substance 30:23 tangible 10:7 think 4:6,8,10,23
23:8 18:14 19:6,14 suggesting 14:4 telling 41:2 60:15 22:15 23:14
31:3 21:1,1 23:23 35:7 60:24 25:21 27:17,19
40:23 24:17,19,19,24 suggests 17:17 term 33:10 54:16 30:4 31:8 32:8
34:1,4 trademark 45:16 two 11:23,24 16:16 18:19 wanted 5:16 19:5
36:6 39:1 traditional 8:22 29:7 34:1,13 33:13 44:17,20 27:25 45:6
42:24 9:15 10:20 36:6 41:17,17 45:17 51:19 wants 6:18,19
47:5,8,8 51:20 49:25 57:21 53:17 54:2,8,14 Washington 1:8
48:3,7 transcription 61:5 54:15 57:6 1:15,18
50:8 30:2 twofold 5:22 16:4 61:25 wasn't 15:13
51:3 transfer 19:21 type 27:1 28:10 variety 14:17 27:6,10,10 29:9
22:22 35:18,19 various 5:4 55:24 34:12 36:2,4,5
54:10 transferability types 52:3 verdict 4:1 27:16 36:9 40:2,13,13
55:2 19:17 typical 25:21 version 9:14 46:6,13,15
58:9 transferable typing 29:25 viable 58:10 49:15 53:24
59:14 10:13,18 18:1 victim 24:14 29:8 56:11
61:11 19:18,24 20:3 U 46:3 way 12:11 14:3
62:2 20:19,24 ultimate 6:3 video 4:11 13:16 15:3 23:8,9,14
13:22 tried 43:7 45:5 41:20 44:23 violate 11:1 48:20 49:6
29:15 31:4 Tropiano 60:16 understand violating 28:25 51:16 57:1 62:3
60:18,22 61:3,24 11:22 15:10 violation 21:11 wealth 30:15
14:8,11 44:25 49:16,17 41:25 56:20 60:21 61:1 well-phrased
50:6 51:25 54:9 understanding violence 7:25 31:1
try 32:1 36:6 unissued 4:12 34:17 35:6,8 weren't 49:16
15:19 18:25 unrecognizable votes 58:8 25:20 28:18
35:5,8 32:24 33:23 urged 24:25 We've 54:19
35:16,17 36:10 use 15:4 23:5 W willing 25:23
29:14 46:1,19 47:3,9 28:14,23,24 37:2 38:23
41:3,7,11 47:13 48:4,5,11 49:11,21 53:21
48:14,15 51:8
44:15 49:10 words 11:11 15:4
45:2,12 50:11 51:11,15 32:6 38:25
Tuesday 1:9
15:3,9,15 56:23 60:19,20 15:20,22 19:1
40:3 $
53:4,5 $35 45:22
57:2 59:1
1
18 53:15
1911 34:22
1946 24:3
14:6 20:2 2
2 41:3,6
53:25 20 55:9
62:5 23 1:9
2:4 41:10
57:12
34:23 58:14
9:9,12,13
34:23 58:12
19:6 23:23
53:15,19,21
30:9
33:19,20
34:12
49:6,9,10
56:8,8
