IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
PPL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES, :
Petitioner : No. 12-43
v. :
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, February 20, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:17 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
ANN O'CONNELL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ANN O'CONNELL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:17 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 12-43, PPL Corporation and Subsidiaries v.
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
Mr. Clement?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case has its origins in a decision by
the British government in the Major Thatcher years to
privatize a number of previously State-owned utilities.
The government's plan was to keep prices constant and
allow the companies to make profits by increasing
efficiencies and reducing costs. Only after an initial
period in which prices would be fixed would the prices
be re-jiggered and then savings passed on to the
consumers.
Now, this, in practice, worked very well for
the companies. They were able to increase their
efficiencies and cut costs to a greater extent than
people expected. This was not, however, greeted as a
uniform success. Instead, the opposition party
criticized this and said that the fat cats at the
utility companies had earned too much and the
conservative government had made a mistake by valuing
the shares at IPO too cheaply.
And so they promised, as an express election
promise, to impose a tax on the excess profits of
privatized utilities. And, when elected, they made good
on that promise and passed the Windfall Act --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: See, I have a problem
with this argument because it assumes a way of looking
at this, but it's an assumption. You can look at it in
either way. You can look at it as they made too much
money, we want a part of that profit, or they paid too
little for what they got.
And that was the debate going on in
Congress. Did they pay too little on the floatation
value? Or did they make too much money? And what the
government says -- rightly -- is whether you paid too
much or too little money depends on the value of the
company. And one of the factors that goes into that is
how much money has the company made?
And so you always have to look at profits,
to some extent. So what's wrong with looking at it
their way? Why does it have to be your way?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, it has to be my way
because of the way the specific tax was designed. But
the first --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, you can only do it
your way if you do what the amici says, which is to take
out from your simplified equation the fact that the
time -- the D element of your equation -- is constant.
You artificially freeze it the time at which they
operated. Only by freezing that number can you come out
with your equation.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Your Honor, we're not
artificially freezing the -- the number. The number --
the D -- 1461 for almost every company -- is, itself,
part of the statute because they picked a period by
which they were going to measure the profit in
value-making terms.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there was at least
two or three companies that had a very different period,
and they paid a huge amount, much further than their
gross profits.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I can talk about the
outlying --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because of that, D
changed for them.
MR. CLEMENT: I can talk about the outlying
companies. They paid a different effective rate because
the D was different. But there's two important things
to remember. One, I believe it's common ground between
the parties, that the way you applied this regulation is
to look at the tax in -- to use the regulatory phrase --
in the normal circumstances in which it applies.
So I believe it's common ground that you
ignore the outliers anyway.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you change the other
part of the equation -- or of the tax regulation, which
says it has to be true for all taxpayers.
MR. CLEMENT: No. That particular
provision -- think of it as like a Clark v. Martinez
principle for taxes. They either are creditable or
they're not. That's what that principle has been
interpreted to. The case you should look at, if you're
really interested in it, is the Exxon case, the tax
court, we cite it in both our briefs.
And, there, it was a situation where, again,
a British Excess Profits Tax, in the main, it was an
Excess Profits Tax on the companies that were developing
the North Sea oil field. But, as the tax applied to a
couple of companies that really hadn't gotten any oil
out, it applied very differently.
And the tax court and the government in that
case both conceded, no, you look at the tax in its main
applications. And in those main applications, everyone
concedes that this tax operates exactly like a
51.75 percent tax on profits above a threshold, a
threshold of 4/9ths of the floatation value.
And that is not an accident. That's not
some kind of tricky math thing that somebody pulled up.
It's right there in the statute itself because --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose everyone in the
case conceded that the purpose of this statute was to
compensate the government for having valued the shares
at too low a price, and this was stated right in the
enactment. Would that change your argument?
MR. CLEMENT: It wouldn't, Justice Kennedy,
because, at the end of the day, it's the substance of
the tax, not its purpose behind it that matters. Now, I
do think, in this case, as Justice Sotomayor alluded to,
everybody in this process really understood that those
were just the flip side of the same coin.
You can talk about the profits being too
high, vis-à-vis floatation, you can talk about
floatation being too low vis-à-vis the subsequently
reported profits, but what makes --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose we think
this is both a tax on profits and a tax on low value.
Then what do we do?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, in this particular case,
you would say it's creditable because the only measure
of value here is by looking at retrospective earnings
over a 4-year period. And the best hypothetical I can
give you is think about a foreign government that says
we want to tax the value of corporations, but the way we
are idiosyncratically going to measure value is to look
at their earnings over the past year.
Now, I would hope that tax would be for U.S.
substantive economic tax purposes fully creditable. Of
course, it's a tax on income, by our eyes. Now, in
saying that, you're not suggesting that the other company --
the other country did something wrong or that's not value in
their conception.
But the whole point that this Court made
clear in the Biddle case, going back 75 years ago, is
when you're looking at foreign taxes, for purposes of
applying the foreign tax credit, you don't take the
foreign characterizations, the foreign classifications,
as a given. You look at the substance of the tax for
our purposes.
And, if you look -- if you apply that
mechanism to this tax, this tax looks exactly like a
U.S. Excess Profits Tax. It is really --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Clement, if I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose it's a one -- if I
could just -- suppose -- we say, well, this is a
one-time tax, in order to recalculate, reassess the
value. If it's on income, it's still an Excess Profits
Tax, in your view?
MR. CLEMENT: Yes. And, of course, you
could have had a one-time, one-off tax, to use the
British phrase, and you could have taxed the difference
between the value at floatation and -- let's say the
London Stock Exchange price at some later point. And
that would have been a normal estimate of value, and it
would not have been creditable for a number of reasons.
But when you do what this tax uniquely did,
which is you don't look at a normal rubric of value, but
you look at a construct -- I mean, the very fact that
they had to use the phrase "value in profit-making
terms" tells you something weird's going on here. I
mean, if they were really --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Clement, is there
another example -- Justice Kennedy mentioned that this
was what they call "one-off." It's one time only, and
it's retrospective. Is -- is there any instance in
which a foreign tax credit has been given to something
that looks like this, a one-time only adjustment that
is -- that operates retrospectively on past earnings?
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Ginsburg, I can't put
all the pieces of that together and say there's one case
that had all of these various features, and then it was
still creditable, but I don't think that matters. It's
very clear, I think, for starters, that the fact that
this is a retroactive tax is not dispositive.
You look at one of the regulatory
requirements, and that's realization. And that treats
an estimate of future income generation very differently
because that doesn't involve a realization event. But
what the regulation says is that the tax has to be
imposed upon or subsequent to.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: My fear is, as warned by
the government and the tax professors, that the rule you
want us to announce to help you win is to say anytime a
tax uses estimates of profits, no matter how it does it,
it is credible -- creditable. That's the rule you want.
MR. CLEMENT: No, it is not. It is
emphatically not. And let me tell you why there is no
slippery slope here. First, the big thing they want to
tell you is this is a normal way of valuation. And, if
you allow this, then any valuation is going to be
creditable. That is flat wrong, and the reason that's
flat wrong is because almost every effort in valuation
is prospective.
If you want to try to value a piece of
property, you could value it by saying, well, what kind
of rents can I get on this property, and I'll discount
them back to net present value. And I suppose you can
conceive of a property tax as a tax on a percentage of
those projected future earnings.
But you know what? Easily obviously not
creditable because the first requirement on the
regulation is that there be a realization event. And
when you're talking about projected future income
streams, there's no realization events. So all of those
are off the table.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why isn't that to say
I want to find the original floatation value, and,
instead of estimating what the profits are, I'm simply
going to use the ones that happen?
MR. CLEMENT: Exactly --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why is that
different?
MR. CLEMENT: Because you never would do
that in any normal valuation. What you would do --
occasionally, in valuation, you have to go back in time.
This isn't the only place in the world that anybody
said, I wonder what Google's stock was worth, like, back
in the day.
But, when you do that for valuation
purposes, the first rule of thumb is to avoid hindsight
bias, and so this tax uniquely taxes nothing, but
hindsight bias. It's going back to 1990 --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, there -- there is
an argument about that because it has two components
that you keep ignoring, the floatation value and the
time that the company --
MR. CLEMENT: I would love to talk about
those other variables. The floatation value -- I mean,
it's a tax between the difference between -- between two
variables.
The reason I am focusing on the value and
profit-making terms is because it's the larger of the
two numbers, and the tax falls in the difference between
the two, and the floatation value is basically taken as
a given. And --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. -- I'm sorry,
please.
MR. CLEMENT: Go ahead. I mean, I could
talk floatation value all day.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I'd really like to
hear -- I'd really like to hear what you are going to
say.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. Then let me ask you
my question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Wait, Justice Kagan.
No, Justice Kagan.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ok. Do you agree -- I mean, you
said we should look to the way this is designed, so
let's look to the way that the actual formula is
designed.
Do you agree that this tax would impose
identical tax liability for companies with -- at the
same average profits, but could impose very different
tax liability for companies with the same total profits?
That's the way the thing is designed, is it
not?
MR. CLEMENT: Yes, and that's true of every
Excess Profits Tax, Your Honor. What matters for those
tax --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that's the question.
Is that true of every Excess Profits Tax? Take a -- a
hypothetical like this: You have two companies, Company
A and Company B, and one company operates over four
years and makes a lot of money, and one company operates
over one year and makes only a quarter of that amount of
money.
Now, a typical Excess Profits Tax is going
to take Company A, which has made a lot of money, and --
and it's going to end up paying four times as much tax
as Company B, which has made only a quarter of the
amount of money. But, under this tax, Company A and
Company B pay the exact same thing; isn't that right?
MR. CLEMENT: No. They -- they would pay
different taxes. I mean, they pay the same rate --
JUSTICE KAGAN: One year or four years?
Four --
MR. CLEMENT: They have the same -- they'd
have the same rate. They'd have -- I mean,
the same calculation, but it would affect them very
differently. But in --
JUSTICE KAGAN: In other words, a company
that has made four times as much profits under this
formula could pay the same tax; isn't that right?
MR. CLEMENT: I -- I don't think --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Because it was operating
four times as long.
MR. CLEMENT: Right.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And because there is that D
variable.
MR. CLEMENT: Right -- that's right. But,
of course, the floatation value is going to play a
bigger role in the other company --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Assuming the floatation
value is the same for both companies.
MR. CLEMENT: Then -- then maybe it could,
Justice Kagan, but let me say two things about that --
JUSTICE KAGAN: It definitely could. It
would have to. And that's because what this is trying
to tax is not total profits. This is trying to tax
average profits, or what may be the better way to say
it, is it's taxing profitability and not profits.
MR. CLEMENT: No. With all due respect,
it's taxing profits above a threshold, and the threshold
is determined by floatation value. For most companies
that the tax applies -- and that is the way you look at
the creditability of these taxes, you ignore the
outlier. For most of those companies, it's going to be
4/9ths of the floatation value.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But -- but the reason why
this formula was devised in the way that this formula
was devised was specifically to get at the outlier. In
other words, it was to get at the company that only
operated for a short amount of time, but they wanted
that company to pay just as big a tax bill as the
company that had operated for a much longer amount of
time and had made many more profits.
So the end result is that this company that
operates for a very short amount of time and makes
almost no excess profits pays the exact same tax bill as
a company with four times as much excess profits.
MR. CLEMENT: No, that's not right, Your
Honor. I -- it really is not. And what they were
trying to do -- first of all, the outliers, the reason
they included them in is they figured they had to
because it fit within their definition of the regulated
companies they were trying to catch.
Now, they knew they had -- and this is only
two companies we are talking about -- they knew they had
a shorter period, so they knew this would fall
differently on them as a substantive matter no matter --
no matter how they did it.
The reason they didn't care much is because
those companies got something that the other companies
didn't, which is they got to operate for the next three
years in a favorable regulatory environment in which no
Excess Profits Tax would be imposed on them. So it may
look like they have a higher rate -- effective rate
under our calculation.
They do have a higher effective rate over
a -- over a relatively small amount over the threshold,
but they make that up, essentially, in the out-years
because they make money under the favorable regulatory
regime.
And, again, the theory of this is, for four
years after floatation, there is a favorable regulatory
regime in which they make excess profits. Those two
companies get to make money in the out-years, two,
three, four, without any excess profits because it was
really important for them to make this a one-off tax.
But if I can get back to your question
because there is this phenomenon --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Why -- why
didn't -- why weren't they subject to a favorable
regulatory regime in two, three, and four?
MR. CLEMENT: They were. They weren't --
but they weren't subject to any tax for it because,
remember, they -- this is very important for Labour.
They are coming in after 20 years of conservative rule.
They don't want to be the old Labour party. They don't
want to put in a new permanent tax, so they want to do
this once.
And so that works great for my clients
because they -- they were privatized in 1990. But, when
they're doing this in 1997, they get a couple of
outlying companies that were only privatized in '96. So
what they do is they hit them with a reasonably tough
tax in year one, but year two, three, and four, they
were in a favorable regulatory environment, and they get
no tax at all. So -- you know, don't -- don't cry any
tears for them.
Now, the point I thought you were going
to ask me, though, is, even with the companies with the
same denominator, it is true that companies with the
same profits can be subjected to different taxes, but
that's because it's an Excess Profits Tax. And that is
what is true of --
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, but even companies with
the exact same profits and the exact same floatation
value can be subject to different taxes, and that's a
result of the amount of time, that's a result of the D
variable. If you were right --
MR. CLEMENT: With respect, that's only true
of --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Excuse me. If you were
right, the D variable wouldn't exist. If this were an
Excess Profits Tax, it would have been written without a
D variable because they would not have cared whether it
was four years or one year or any place in-between.
MR. CLEMENT: With respect, I disagree
because, first of all, it's only those two companies,
from what you said, is -- it could possibly be true. As
to the rest of the companies, the reason that they were
trying to use D is because they were trying to capture
the excess profits during a period in which there is a
particular regulatory environment with -- where they --
where they thought they earned excess profits.
For all of the companies they reached, that
period was the D with the exception of the outliers, and
the reason they had a different outlier is because they
were recently privatized. But, if you think about the
substance of this tax, it is taxing -- their term --
value and profit-making terms, but not any abstract
profit-making terms, profits over a reported period.
JUSTICE KAGAN: If you were right, it would
just be a 52 percent tax on annual profits above 1/9th
of floatation value, and it's not that. It's not
that -- specifically, in order to get at railroad track,
which would have paid very little tax under your
formula, but, instead, pays a great amount of tax
because they think that railroad track got the same good
deal at the beginning as all these other companies did,
but -- so, even though they didn't make very much
in the way of excess profits, they were going to tax
them just as much.
MR. CLEMENT: Because they had three free
years in the out-years. And, if you are looking at how
this applies, in the normal circumstances of its
application, then you don't have the full analysis of a
railroad track.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The problem with their
argument, Mr. Clement, is that you are undermining your
own argument. If they are getting three full years at a
lesser tax, it's because their floatation value was made
more equal by this formula.
MR. CLEMENT: No, that's not right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So they don't need to be
taxed any more, moving forward, because they got it
right.
MR. CLEMENT: No, that's -- with all due
respect, that's not right. The floatation value is
calculated the same way for each of these companies, and
the theory of why the floatation value is too low is the
same for all of them, which is, under the regulatory
policies, they are going to hold the prices firm for a
four-year period, and they are going to increase
efficiencies and reduce costs, and they are going to
make money.
That is supposed to incentivize them, and
then that's the basis for all the regulatory policies
going forward.
JUSTICE BREYER: I wanted -- I just wanted
to hear what you were going to say in answer to the
second part of Justice Sotomayor's earlier question.
And, to remind you of that, you were going to explain to
us, which I felt I needed, the second term -- that
second term. And that just says, "FV," for value.
MR. CLEMENT: Right. Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: But I did notice, that if
you make .23 times fair value, not quite by coincidence,
happens to be what the companies would have made over
a period of 2 years in profit, had it been the truth
that the value of such companies was, as valued by the
market, 9 times their earnings because a company that's
valued 9 times its earnings earns about 11 point
something percent per year -- taking aside all other
factors -- and 2 years' worth is that.
And I don't know if I've got that part
right, but, if I do have that part right, then what this
tax does is it takes the profits the firms actually --
actually made over 2 years -- not quite actually. It
assumes twice the -- the value of the first year.
You see, so whatever they made the first
year -- and, if it's only 6 months, it's twice 6
months -- you know -- that first part figures out what
they really made over the first year and then multiplies
it by two. And you take that, and you subtract from
that the amount that they would have made over 2 years.
Now -- so it looked, to me, pretty -- this
helps you, of course, but -- but it also is calculated
on an average, the average of the first year's profit,
they consider that the average; and, therefore, they are
right in saying -- you know, a firm that was only in
business for 6 months will be taxed -- the whole 2-year
extra will be taken away, even when there was no 2-year
extra, you see? So that firm would have paid more than
their gross income.
Of course, there is no such firm, and that's
their problem, but we come to that later. But I want
your view, if you can -- if I've explained it clearly
enough, so you get where I'm coming from, and -- and --
if -- if I have explained that clearly enough, I'd really
appreciate what you think about it.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I -- I think so, but I
think I get there in a slightly different way because I
guess I don't see the natural relationship between the
23 percent and the floatation value, but I think I get
to a similar place, which is, if you think about it the
way that we formulate it, it's 51.75 percent of 4/9ths
of floatation value.
Now, the -- the floatation value is
calculated based on the initial share price, plus the
number of shares. And the initial share price for all
the electrical utilities was 2 pounds, 40 pence. So
it's just 2 pounds, 40 pence, by however many shares
there were. Okay. So that's floatation value.
The -- the floor for the excess profits is
4/9ths of floatation value. Now, if you want to get it
on an annualized average basis and if you want to -- you
know, this is at 64a of the petition appendix when the
Tax Court did it -- but what that means in practice is
this tax is taxing 51.75 percent of the profits above
1/9th of the floatation --
JUSTICE BREYER: It will do that for firms
that are in business for 4 years.
MR. CLEMENT: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Absolutely. It won't do
that for a firm that was in business 6 months. And --
and --
MR. CLEMENT: It -- it will give you a
different number.
JUSTICE BREYER: A very different number.
MR. CLEMENT: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Indeed, a number that could
exceed the money -- all the money they really make in
the next 2 years.
MR. CLEMENT: That's not true.
JUSTICE BREYER: I could.
MR. CLEMENT: I mean, of any company here --
of any company here, that's not true.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, that's correct.
That's not true. There is only one company like that;
absolutely right.
MR. CLEMENT: It's stipulated --
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- but -- but some,
particularly on the other side, want to make quite a lot
out of that fact. And they want to make quite a lot out
of the fact that for that single -- whatever it's called
railroad something --
MR. CLEMENT: Railtrack. But, again,
Railtrack did not pay more in taxes than they made in --
JUSTICE BREYER: I know -- I know they
didn't. It didn't happen in this instance.
MR. CLEMENT: And -- and -- and that is a
very important fact because when you are trying to
figure out --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Okay.
MR. CLEMENT: -- what -- and, again, their
regulation says, you look to the application of the
statute, in the normal circumstances in which it
applies.
In the normal circumstances in which this
applies -- and, this, the parties stipulated to -- every
company paid less in this Excess Profits Tax or windfall
tax than they made in initial period profits. And that
is all that really matters.
They want to focus on the fact that, well,
for a lot of these companies, the base amount was larger
than the -- than their initial period profits. Who
cares? I mean, that's just an artificial number.
This --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's go back to my
initial question. What's the rule? If someone uses
your actual profits in any way, it's a credit that they
are entitled to?
MR. CLEMENT: No. I don't think so because,
again --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I don't know how
you get around it because you seem to be saying to us
that, no matter how -- what formula you create, so long
as we can simplify it in math to affect which -- take
any variables in it and fix them in any way, that's a
creditable tax. That seems to be what your argument is.
MR. CLEMENT: No, it's not,
Justice Sotomayor. Now, there's two things your
question, I think, got to; one, I thought I already
dealt with, which is future valuation is not a problem.
There is no realization of it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, I'm saying to you
that any tax that relies upon actual profits, in any
way, you say is wrong.
MR. CLEMENT: And it's not right or wrong.
We would say it's creditable, if that's its predominant
character. So if you want to put that as part of a
ten-factor test, where past realized profits is one of
the ten factors, but you also look at real market
valuation and some other factor, then I'm probably going
to lose.
But, in this instance, the only moving
factor -- the only thing that changes from
company-to-company, other than the floatation value,
which is fixed, is their profits. And nobody -- you
know, nobody doubts --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, the floatation value
is not fixed. It was different for each company.
MR. CLEMENT: Right. But --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They only fixed the
percentage that they're going to use, but the actual
amount paid was different for every company.
MR. CLEMENT: But, again, that is classic
Excess Profits Tax. So let me try to come at it this
way, which is to say, suppose you had a country that had
a tax that said, we are going to tax your value, and we
are going to measure your -- your -- your value based on
the income you made in the last year or the last 2
years.
Now, I would say that that is clearly a
creditable income tax. If they said the same thing, we
are going to tax your value, and we are going to
calculate your value based on your income over the last
2 years, but we are going to subtract 10 percent of your
market cap, that would be an Excess Profits Tax.
The market cap would be different for every
company, so there would be another thing that was
different for each company, and the effective rate might
be different, but that's okay because that's how an
excessive profits tax works.
The last thing I'd say before I go sit down
is that's how the 1917 United States Excess Profits Tax
worked. In 1918, when Congress said that foreign excess
profits taxes are creditable, surely, that's what they
had in mind, and this is very similar to that classic,
prototypical Excess Profits Tax.
If I could reserve the remainder of my time?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. O'Connell?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANN O'CONNELL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. O'CONNELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The windfall tax is not an income tax. It
tax -- is a tax on an increment of company value. A
company's profits multiplied by a price to earnings
ratio is a typical way of imputing a value on a company.
Using profits as one variable in that valuation formula
does not transform a tax on company value into an income
tax.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that's a way of
estimating future value. I -- I don't know that anybody
values a company that -- that is sold on the market by
saying how much money did they make in the last 2 years,
and we are going to multiply that by 9. You look at
what people were paying you in the market.
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, Justice Scalia, the --
what Parliament was trying to do here was to impute a
value on the company for which it should have been sold in
1990. And so using a stock price at some later date
would not have been an adequate proxy to determine what
that value should have been.
JUSTICE BREYER: If they know what it really
was, I guess they're all billionaires. You've got
triple billionaires. I mean, if you could go and figure
out what companies could really be sold at, as opposed
to what the market says, I think I have the solution for
you. I don't know why either of us is working here.
(Laughter.)
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, the point is that
Parliament was trying to come up with a value that it
should have charged for these companies in 1990 and --
you know --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, since there is no real
value, I -- I mean, maybe there is because they did it
in the form of an IPO, and the share then went the next
day into the market, and, when it went the next day into
the market, did the market pay a lot more?
MS. O'CONNELL: Yes, it did.
JUSTICE BREYER: Really?
MS. O'CONNELL: There -- there is --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Then you could
use that. You could use that, I guess.
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, but if you use --
JUSTICE BREYER: But, how does that relate
to the number 9?
MS. O'CONNELL: If you use just the profits
on the next day, that wouldn't capture all of the
efficiencies that were realized over the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, yes. But, of course,
in the -- in the past, we are making a prediction
about what efficiencies will be realized, and, in the
future, we know. So the one thing we don't know, since
life is risky -- or we do know for sure -- is whatever
it shows up to be in the future couldn't have been the
value that shareholders would put on it in the past
because they know life a risky.
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, that is true. And
that is one thing that is -- is the --
JUSTICE BREYER: So the reason that that is
relevant here, of course, is this number 9 is a made-up
number. It may be made up by great experts, but since
they are all not geniuses who are -- own the whole
world, they must not be perfect experts.
MS. O'CONNELL: It is -- it is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Isn't that true?
MS. O'CONNELL: The number 9 was not an
arbitrary number. It was --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, it was a number picked
by whatever company had -- what is it, the -- the lowest
price earnings ratio or something like that.
MS. O'CONNELL: Right. The lowest average
price ratio.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. But that doesn't --
that means whatever company that the shareholders
thought would deviate the least from whatever the return
was and that doesn't apply the others. But you don't
want a lecture from me on this subject.
What I want is an answer from you, and the
answer I want from you is this: As I read it and once
understand that this number is a semi made-up number, I
did look at that second term, and I thought that .23
times 9 is about 2 years' worth -- about 2 years' worth
of profits that would be expected, all things left out
of it, except profit.
And so then, once I saw that, I looked at
the first term. And the first term seemed, to me, to be
their actual profit -- their actual profit on an annual
basis multiplied by about the same number, you see?
And so what we do is we take -- about
multiplying, you see -- so we take about two years'
worth of profit that they actually made, and we subtract
from that two years' worth that our experts tell us they
should have made as -- on the basis of the original
market price. The rest is excess profit, and we seize
all of it, for two years only.
And, by the way, if a company had only six
months' worth, well, then -- you know, they might really
be hurt because, after all, they only earned six months
at the annual rate that showed something, and maybe they
didn't really earn it over the next 18 months. But the
reply was there was no such company. And, of course,
because time periods vary, rates will vary.
But I don't know that that matters for an
income tax. It's not a question of the rate; it's a
question on what you impose it. And you impose it on
income because, as he says, there are two choices here.
Number is really calculated on the basis of income, and
there is another number going on, the actual floatation
value, and this third thing, which is called the number
9. But, primarily, it is the income that makes the
difference.
Now, that's his argument. What's your
response? That's his argument, as I understand it. I
don't want to put words in his mouth. But you -- you
explain it to me.
MS. O'CONNELL: Justice Breyer, I think the
problem with -- when we start to reformulate what this
tax is or is not taxing or what the amount of the actual
tax is, just shows the danger of trying to reformulate
what parliament actually did in trying to determine if
it's an income tax.
As the professor's amicus brief points out,
if you reformulated this into an average annual profit
or left the P over 4 as it was and then divided
everything else by 9, this would become a 207 percent
tax on --
JUSTICE BREYER: But I said, so what? Now,
you can answer that by saying, no, it's not so what. I
mean, isn't an income tax dependant upon whether it's a
tax on income, not the rate? And -- and whether some
companies pay a high rate and others pay a low rate,
even if that's totally arbitrary, wouldn't make a
definition to the characterization.
MS. O'CONNELL: In that characterization --
JUSTICE BREYER: As long as you're not --
they actually have the gross income from which this
comes.
MS. O'CONNELL: In that characterization,
Justice Breyer, the 207 percent of average annual
profits over 1/9th of floatation value, then, no, it's
not an income tax and the rate does matter because it's
completely confiscatory of that profits base.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, it will. Wait, wait,
wait, wait. It is greater than the profit they earned
during the year, but it is not greater than the profit
that they earned during the two years -- or whatever the
period is that everybody's paying this on.
MS. O'CONNELL: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right?
MS. O'CONNELL: Which -- which -- it's true.
It's true.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, here, by good luck for
them or bad luck for you or whatever it is, they have
not taxed more than the gross income of the companies.
Is that -- is that --
MS. O'CONNELL: They have not taxed more
than the total profits over a four-year period, which
is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Four-year period. Well,
that's -- well -- well, is it not going to be an income
tax if what the U.S. government says, though it hasn't
said it, it could say, we want -- we want 35 percent of
what you earn over six years. Okay. That's what we
want. Now, that's still an income tax, isn't it?
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, the U.S. income tax --
what the regulation looks for is taxes that have the
essential features of the U.S. income tax. And, no, the
U.S. income tax has never been imposed on a multiple of
profits. It's -- it's imposed as a percentage of --
JUSTICE BREYER: So you say whatever -- if
they impose it on more than a year, any -- any country
that calculates the income tax over a period for more
than a year is outside the tax treaty because it's
essential to the nature of the American income tax
system that it be calculated year by year.
You're hesitating to say that, but
I think -
MS. O'CONNELL: Yes, I am. I am. I think
if there was a country that imposed an income tax every
six years and said, every sixth year, you'll pay an
income tax over the last six years, then that would
probably still be an income tax.
But the point is that, here, that's not
anything close to what they're doing or what Parliament
has done. Parliament has taken a valuation formula,
where it takes an actual earnings figure from the
company -- an average annual earnings figure, and
multiplies it by a price-to-earnings ratio to impute a
value on the company.
It then subtracts out what it actually
received for the company, which we think shows that the
substance of this tax is that it's a tax on an increment
of company value. Parliament is calculating what it
should have sold the company for, subtracting out what
it actually received.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, could you -- I'm
sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We had a lot of --
your friend had a lot of questions on the different
periods -- the initial periods and changing the D value
and what that did to the -- that is not an argument that
you've made, is it?
MS. O'CONNELL: That's right. I think we
generally agree with the Petitioner that a tax is -- is
either an income tax or not an income tax for everybody
that's subject to the tax and that you look at it in the
normal circumstances in which it applies.
But -- but I do completely agree that the
fact that the D figure changes makes this -- just
reinforces the idea that the substance of this tax --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that is --
again, that's not an argument you've made.
MS. O'CONNELL: No, but our the amicus did
make it. I mean, that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the amicus
did, but I don't think we should do a better job of
getting money from people than the IRS does.
(Laughter.)
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, the point is that --
the fact that there is a D variable there shows that
what Parliament was trying to do was to place an annual
earnings figure on each company to create a value for
it. A company -- it's not similar to an Excess Profits
Tax in that way, that where a company that operated for
only six months is paying the tax at the same level that
a company would be that was making profits at the same
rate for the entire four-year period.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, that's a good
articulation of the argument you haven't made.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you are accepting the
position the government made in PPL v. Exxon. You're
not disavowing the position you took there?
MS. O'CONNELL: Right. But it -- it depends
on the normal circumstances in which it applies. But --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But you're -- you're not
saying that the amicus brief is wrong. The Chief
Justice is, of course, right, the amicus brief is the
amicus brief, and the amicus brief develops this
argument, which I think is the right argument. But
you're not saying that's wrong?
MS. O'CONNELL: It's not wrong. We think
that both the -- the D variable and the flotation value
variable add extra support for the idea that this is a
tax on an increment of company value. The D shows that
it's trying to impute an annual earnings figure on each
company.
The floatation value shows that it's not
concerned just with how profitable any particular
company is, but with how profitable it is in relation to
what the UK government received for it as value when it
floated the company.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you were
saying that that argument was wrong because you looked
to the predominant character of the tax and that it's
either a tax -- it's either an income tax or it's not.
It wouldn't be an income tax on the vast
majority of the companies where it was the same and not
on the companies where it was a large value or the other
way around. You look at the predominant characteristic
and you decide whether it's a tax or not on that basis.
MS. O'CONNELL: That's right. But I'm not
saying that the -- that the argument the amicus are
making is wrong. We're -- we're just saying --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Because they're saying this
is not an income for anybody because, in fact, this
doesn't tax anybody's income. It taxes annual -- excuse
me -- it taxes average profits, not total profits. It
taxes profitability as a mechanism to tax value.
MS. O'CONNELL: That particular aspect of
the amicus brief that says, if it's bad for one, it's
bad for all, yes, that is not our position. If it -- it
is not our position, that you look at the tax based on
the normal circumstances in which it applies.
So I think we are in general agreement with
PPL that, if there are outliers, where net gain would be
totally confiscated, you'd look at it in the -- in the
normal circumstances in which it applies. That's what
the regulation says.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, now, I'm totally
confused because this outlier is an outlier not because
the tax hasn't worked. It's an -- it's an outlier that
the tax is designed to get at, that this formula was
developed with this D variable, in order to make sure
that outliers, meaning people -- companies that operated
for only a short amount of time would still pay a
significant tax bill.
So the whole design of this tax was to get
at the outlier. That seems, to me, to suggest that the
predominant character of the tax is not an income tax,
but is, instead, a value tax.
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, I mean, you could also
get to that by saying that the predominant character of
this tax is -- is not an income tax because of the way
that it applies to everybody else. I think that's our
principal argument.
If there were some outlying companies for
which this didn't look like an income tax, I think the
regulation allows some flexibility there where it says,
we look at it in the normal circumstances in which it
applies. And, if that makes it an income tax, then it's
an income tax for everybody.
I think an important point here is that the
Petitioners have conceded that if Parliament had chosen
a different valuation method, like the stock price, for
any particular company and then subtracted out the
floatation value, that that would not be a tax on
income, that that would be a value tax.
The fact that Parliament chose a different
way to place a value on each company shouldn't become a
tax on income just because profits is one variable in
that tax equation. That would open up many foreign
taxes that just use this typical earnings times the
price-to-earnings ratio for an income tax credit -- a
dollar-for-dollar credit in the United States, just
because the tax was written that way.
We think what Parliament was doing here was
clearly trying to impute a value on each company and
then subtracting out what it actually received. In
substance, it's a tax on value, as well as in form.
If the Court thinks that both of the
formulas are equivalent, the tax that Parliament
actually wrote and the rewritten tax of 51.75 percent of
your four years of profits over 4/9ths of the floatation
value, then there is a couple of reasons that you should
go with the tax that Parliament actually wrote.
The first is that exemptions from taxation
are construed narrowly, and a business -- a foreign
income tax that is paid to a foreign -- or I'm sorry --
a foreign tax that is paid to a foreign government that
is not an income tax is usually just treated as a
deduction.
And the IRS has said, throughout this case,
that it is perfectly happy to treat this windfall tax as
a deduction; it just would not get a dollar-for-dollar
credit --
JUSTICE BREYER: On that -- on the question
of how to treat, I -- there isn't authority, but, I
mean, if I'm quite honest about how I think about it, I
think the people in the tax court actually, usually,
know more about it than the judges who are not on the
tax court.
And so when I get an opinion and the tax
court all thinks one thing and then the court of appeals
is thinking something else and it's highly technical,
I -- I tend to be tempted to say, well, the tax courts
deserve something.
Now, is there anything, really? Am I just
doing that wrong, if I did that?
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, Justice Breyer, with
due respect to the tax court, the tax court didn't even
analyze any of the three regulatory tests that are set
forth in the regulation. I --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought you would --
you would answer that, that the Commissioner gets some
credit, too. This is the Commissioner -- this is a
Treasury regulation. So one question is: Do we owe
that regulation any kind of -- any kind of deference?
MS. O'CONNELL: Yes. I think, to the extent
that there is any ambiguity about what the regulation
means, then the Commissioner's interpretation of his own
regulation is entitled to some order of deference along
the lines of "our." And all --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But there is no
difference between what the Commissioner says the
regulation means and what it says.
MS. O'CONNELL: That's true. Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It doesn't seem to
move the ball much, one way or the other.
MS. O'CONNELL: That's true, unless you
accept Petitioner's argument, that what the regulation
means when it says you evaluate the tax based on its
predominant character is that that means you can rewrite
the tax before you start testing it against the three
regulatory requirements, and, in which case, this would
be a 51.75 percent tax on four years of profits that you
are testing against the three regulatory requirements.
In which case, yes, it would probably be an
income tax, but that's not how the Commissioner views
the regulation. The Commissioner views that predominant
character test as, so long as the tax is predominantly
one where you -- it is on realized income and is
calculated by starting with gross receipts and
subtracting out costs and expenses, there can be minor,
nonconforming elements in the tax base -- like the
inclusion of imputed rental income that is not actually
earned by a taxpayer, which some countries include in an
income tax, and the tax could still be creditable.
The predominant character does not mean --
the predominant character test does not mean that you
completely rewrite the statutory tax base before you
test it against those three regulatory requirements.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if you -- go
ahead.
What if they impose this -- what you would
call valuation tax every year, and it was based the same
way, it's based on profits that year, saying, we're
going to say, we think the value of this company is now
this much because they made -- whatever -- $20 million
last year. And so we impose this -- this set tax.
The next year, we think its value is this
because they made -- you know, 10 million, so we are
going to impose this tax.
MS. O'CONNELL: I think that would not be an
income tax because they are using a valuation formula
that is imputing a value on the company and then
taxing that value. It's like a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Based solely --
based solely on the amount of income?
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, if that -- if that
were the only characteristic, then I think a property
tax that is calculated that way could become an income
tax, and that's not what the income tax credit -- the
foreign tax credit is designed to do.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How could -- a
property tax calculated that way? In other words, based
on income from the property?
MS. O'CONNELL: Times a price-to-earnings
ratio. If -- if what you are saying is that the -- the
tax that the foreign government is imposing is just a
tax based on last year's income, and they are calling it
a property tax or something like that, I think that is
what Petitioner was giving as an example.
That, I'm -- I think, I think would be an
income tax. If the only variable in the tax base was
profits, yes. If they --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if they said, we
are going to multiply it by a price/earnings ratio.
MS. O'CONNELL: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Based on how much
you earned.
MS. O'CONNELL: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which sounds like
income.
MS. O'CONNELL: No, that sounds like value.
And I -- and that's another thing that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the "how much
you earned" part sounds like income.
MS. O'CONNELL: Yes, but -- but any
valuation formula will use some known data from the
company to determine the company's value. So, if you
are -- if you just -- if you are applying just to a
company -- say that the United States was imposing a
property tax on corporations and it decided to calculate
the value of the corporation by taking its last year's
earnings times the price-to-earnings ratio, that could
be reformulated to look like a tax on the company's --
JUSTICE BREYER: If the reformulation --
think of -- think that first term. Put it in your mind.
Now, that first term does have a number -- .23 -- and
let's do times 9, which is that valuation business. And
what you get is a little over 2. Okay?
And you are going to get that every time.
That's not going to vary from company-to-company. That
varies as long as the universe is here. So we know
we're going to multiply .2 -- rather, 2 point something
times that first part of the first term.
And that first part of the first term
consists of nothing other than, for the four-year
company, the average one-year profit. So the only --
what you are telling people to do in that first term is
simply multiply by a little over than 2 -- a little more
than 2 -- the average profit earned over a four-year
period. That's what it says.
So there is nothing there but income. It's
average income, I grant you. But there is nothing there
but income. And then what you subtract from that --
what you subtract from that is a quarter -- is a quarter
of the value, I grant you. But it's a hypothetical
value used with the number 9 of what one-quarter of the
value of the floatation price taken in.
So there's an aspect to it that does have --
unless you do it the way I was doing it initially --
there is an aspect to it that does concern at least a
hypothetical value. But the heart of the equation, in
determining this so-called present value, is nothing
other than taking average income over the four-year
period.
Now, if I'm right -- am I right about that?
MS. O'CONNELL: No. If you're --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MS. O'CONNELL: First of all, if the first
part of the equation is -- is profits multiplied by 2,
then -- then no. That -- that is not --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. It is -- the very
first part of the first part is the profits -- the
average profit over the four-year period. It says P.
And then P, with all of this day business, that's just
times 365 because they want to annualize it.
So, if you have a four years, what you are
going to have is you -- you will have 365 times -- and
then it's going to wipe out, and you will have divided
by 4. So you will take the total profit over the
four-year period, and you'll divide it by 4. That gives
you the annual profit. So, now, we have finished the
first half of the first part.
And the second half -- and we are going to
take .23 of that. Okay?
No, we are not going to take any yet.
Taking .23 -- you're going to take .23 of the number 9,
and that leaves you with the 2 -- that brings you to the
little over 2.2.
MS. O'CONNELL: If you --
JUSTICE BREYER: So what we are doing is
taking the average annual profit over a four-year
period, we average it, and then we multiply it by two
point something. Okay? And what that is doing -- and
then what that is doing is giving you just the average
annual, two years' worth of average annual.
And, from that, we subtract a quarter of
what they received in the initial price, which happens
to be what the market -- if it really was 9 -- about
was expecting it to earn during a two-year
period. That's why I put in the last part.
But even if I am wrong about that, I am
right about the first half, aren't I.
MS. O'CONNELL: Well -- and I think what you
are -- the one point of this that is missing is that, if
you are going to multiply the other part by 2, you also
have to multiply the tax rate by 2. And if this is --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's why I said
50 percent.
MS. O'CONNELL: No, no. It would be -- it
would be 100-and-some percent. It would be twice the
51 point --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, yes, yes. That rate
could be a problem for somebody at some time, in some
place.
MS. O'CONNELL: It would be --
JUSTICE BREYER: It wasn't a problem here
because all of these companies, but one, did have and
did fit within the four-year category. So as to all
these companies, but one, it did not exceed gross
income; it did not exceed net income; it was 50 -- what
the number that he arrived at.
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, Justice Breyer, in
your -- in your reconstructed formula, the tax rate is
going to be twice the 51.75 percent. And that's --
JUSTICE BREYER: It is?
MS. O'CONNELL: Yes, because you have -- if
you're dividing --
JUSTICE BREYER: Of the one year, you
haven't calculated based on one year, but it's 50 percent of
two years, isn't it?
I'm sorry. I am now confused enough that
I am not following you.
MS. O'CONNELL: It's 50 percent for all four
years. For one year, it's 207 percent.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
MS. O'CONNELL: It's 51.75 percent for all
years.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. I have said
enough -- my law clerks will have picked this up. They
will have written it down, and I will be able to go
back with the transcript and study it, which I will do.
(Laughter.)
MS. O'CONNELL: And, Justice Breyer, I
just -- I want to address for a minute this -- this
issue that it wasn't confiscatory of any particular
taxpayer's net gain. That's not the relevant question,
and I know there's some discussion about this in the
briefs.
But, if all you were to do were to compare
the final tax bill to the company's net profits over the
year, there's a lot of things that are not income taxes
that would then become income taxes, like an excise tax
that is charged on the number -- or the -- the number of
products that are manufactured or sold in a particular
company in any given year, so long as there -- as it
leaves the taxpayer with a nickel, then it's -- then
that's an income tax.
That's not what the income tax means. What
matters is what the tax base is. That's how you
determine if it's a tax on income. The realization test
requires that because you can't impose a tax on income
that the -- the taxpayer hasn't actually realized. And
the gross receipts and the net income tax also require
it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. O'Connell -- if the
Court should go the way the Fifth Circuit went -- the
way the Tax Court went -- could the regulation be
changed so it wouldn't happen again?
MS. O'CONNELL: If so, then I -- I think it
should be changed. And I don't know exactly how that
would look, but maybe it could make it more clear that
you're supposed to just look at the tax base -- I think
the regulation does say that.
But, yes, I think there would be room for --
for the IRS to -- to make the regulation even more clear
than it already is, if this Court were to conclude that
the windfall tax is an income tax.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why -- why should it be
changed? I mean, why should companies -- American
companies doing business abroad, in borderline cases,
have to pay tax on the same income twice?
MS. O'CONNELL: Well, Justice Breyer,
they're -- they're not. SWEB, the subsidiary of
Petitioner, paid the British income tax in the same
years that it paid this windfall tax, in 1997 and 1998.
And Petitioner got a dollar-for-dollar foreign tax
credit for its portion of that British income tax that
was paid in those years.
For any other tax that's imposed by a
foreign government that's not the income tax or that's
not an Excess Profits Tax or a war profits tax, the
company can get a tax deduction. That's how profits --
or other taxes are normally treated.
You deduct from the amount of income that
you are reporting to the IRS, the dollars that you paid
toward that foreign tax, and the -- the value of that
deduction depends on the marginal tax rate that the
taxpayer is paying.
So you might get 35 cents on the dollar for
every dollar that you can subtract from your income tax
base. But the dollar-for-dollar credit in Section 901
is reserved for foreign taxes that have the equivalent
features of the U.S. income tax, and the windfall tax
simply doesn't.
It's written as a valuation formula, and
it's not just written that way, but that's the substance
of what it's trying to do. It's imputing a value on
each company for what the U.K. government should have
charged, and it's subtracting out the amount of money
that it actually received.
And I think that's an important point to
keep in mind when determining what is the -- the
substance of this tax, is that the U.K. government is not
just going out into the world and taxing companies that
it thinks are particularly profitable, to try to get
more money.
The U.K. government used to own these
companies, and it sold them at too low a price, and the
windfall tax is an effort to get back some of that value
that it should have asked for when it sold them.
Whether that's a good idea or a bad idea,
it's not an income tax, in the U.S. sense, and it should
not be entitled to a credit under Section 901.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Clement, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CLEMENT: Thank you. Just a few quick
points in rebuttal.
First of all, just for the record, if what
they really wanted to do in the British government was
to tax value, as we normally understood it, there was a
ready mechanism available, the London Stock Exchange
price.
Now they want to say, well, but we wanted to
go back and value it in 1990, but, as alluded to, they
could have done that because, on day one, there was
about a 20 percent pop -- that's -- to use the IPO
word -- there's about a 20 percent pop in value at the
end of the first day's trading. They could have taxed
that.
If they wanted to be a little less precise,
but capture a little more value, they could have gone
30 days out or 60 days out, on the theory that it took a
while for the information to make it in to the market.
That would have been a value tax. I wouldn't be up here
arguing that it's creditable.
But what they did was something very
different. They used a sui generis, very unique concept
of value, not value unmodified, but value in
profit-making terms. And not profit-making terms in
some abstract sense that takes into account future
income streams, but profit-making terms, as measured by
4 years of reported profits that satisfy every test of
the regulation.
They're realized profits, they're based on
gross receipts, and they reflect exactly to the penny --
to the pence, the net income. That's what they base
this tax on.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Clement, what do you
think would -- is the answer -- suppose that the Labour
government had come in -- not after 4 years but after 2
years -- that they had looked at those 2 years of profits,
they said, that's enough for us, to know that these
companies were grossly undervalued, and they had done
this exact same formula, and the result is that they
would have ended up with a tax rate of over 100 percent.
Would that have been creditable or not?
MR. CLEMENT: I would be here with a more
difficult case, Justice Kagan. I would love to argue
that that is still creditable because I think you could
live in a country that has an income tax, especially an
Excess Profits Tax on a few disfavored industries, that
has a rate over 100 percent.
But I would run into a regulatory hurdle,
and, if I had had that case, I would have had to
challenge the regulations. I would have loved to do it.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess what the
hypothetical suggests is that, in some respects, the
fact that you now -- that you have a tax rate here of
between 0 and 1 is a bit of a fluke -- you know, if they
had come in a little bit earlier and done the exact same
thing, based on their understanding of how profitable
these companies were, which they would have seen after 2
years, you wouldn't have been able to make the same
argument.
MR. CLEMENT: Can I just say, though, it
wouldn't have been a fluke because one of the things
that the people that constructed this tax wanted out of
this tax is they wanted it paid.
So it's not a fluke that they didn't impose
a huge tax in excess of initial period profits on any
company because they wanted to make sure the incidents
of this tax was on companies that could actually pay it.
And, if you do that based on 4 years' of reported
profits, you're pretty sure that people are going to be
able to pay it.
I would like to bring back to the -- the
concession, I think, that ultimately was made by the
government, that, if a foreign government has a tax on
value, that the only measure of value is the past years'
reported income, that that would be a creditable income
tax. Well, I don't think it changes if you multiply it
by 9. I don't think it changes if you divide it by 4.
I don't think if there is one company, that
you divide it by 1/4, instead of 4 -- any of that
changes the analysis, nor does it change the analysis if
you subtract out some figure that represents a market
cap or initial floatation value.
That would make it an Excess Profits Tax,
rather than a simple income tax, and that is what the
British government did.
I'll just close by bringing you back
75 years to the Biddle case. In the Biddle case, there
was an argument about a British tax and whether we
should follow the form of the tax or the substance of
this tax.
This Court said that we, of course, in
looking at a foreign tax, don't bind ourselves by
foreign classifications or characterizations. We look
to the substance of the tax.
In the Biddle case, the rule that you look
to substance, not form, benefited the Commissioner.
There's no reason for a different rule when the shoe is
on the other foot.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:14 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
announce 10:14 artificially 5:6,10 53:15 calculate 27:5 45:17
31:22 32:21 33:12 asked 53:7 benefited 57:11 21:25 22:22 32:5
48:7 Assistant 1:17 bias 12:2,3 calculates 34:20
31:10,10 anytime 10:14 30:19 32:21 33:12 28:22 capture 18:24 29:20
35:9 anyway 6:6 35:10 38:16 46:8 bind 57:7 54:6
B 28:20 29:6,12,14
24:21,23 25:7 50:3 53:6,24 34:7,18 41:10,23
37:8 38:22 56:11 57:1 45:21 47:4,8 48:2
bad 34:1 38:19,20 48:19,24 49:3,9,12
change 6:7 7:11
37:10,11,12 51:16
38:11,19 changes 26:10 36:8
3:3,7 4:9 7:11 27:5 38:21 42:20 brings 47:24
20:2,3 25:18 43:19,20 44:6,7,14 British 3:12 6:18 9:7
15:19,21,24 changing 35:24
32:10,11 44:19 45:3 49:16 51:21,24 53:19
18:11 19:15 character 26:4 38:3
36:11 37:3 54:19 55:21 56:8 56:25 57:3
25:3 26:19 39:13,16 42:21
38:2,11 basically 12:15 business 22:4 23:10
39:9 44:7 43:4,12,13
42:19 53:14 basis 20:20 23:4 23:13 41:1 45:24
characteristic 38:8
57:3 31:11,16 32:5 38:9 47:11 51:17
characterization
53:14,16 54:23 45:14,16 46:8 counsel 27:20 35:19 12:20 29:9,9,20
57:8 clerks 50:1 56:18 countries 43:10 days 54:7,7
close 35:7 57:1 45:14,20 50:12 34:19 35:2 55:10 deal 19:17
35:19,22 come 5:7 22:9 26:21 compare 50:11 course 8:10 9:5 decide 38:9
37:2,10 29:3 54:25 55:20 compensate 7:9 14:22 21:25 22:8 decided 45:17
42:12,16 comes 33:10 completely 33:15 29:22 30:8 31:24 decision 3:11
44:6,13,25 coming 17:14 22:11 36:7 43:14 37:11 57:6 deduct 52:6
53:12 Commissioner 1:6 components 12:5 court 1:1,12 3:10 deduction 41:5,8
3:5 42:3,4,13 43:2 conceded 6:24 7:8 6:16,23 8:14 23:6 52:4,9
24:20,22 4:1 5:16,24 6:19 concern 46:22 credible 10:16 dependant 33:2
37:8 38:22 6:21 13:8,10,18 concerned 37:22 credit 8:17 9:22 25:9
14:25 15:10,13 concession 56:12 40:12,13 41:9 42:4 52:9
28:23 29:4 33:4 confused 39:4 49:18 8:9 9:11 10:3,16 determine 28:18
39:20 49:4,6 51:16 27:15 26:3 27:3,16 43:11determined 15:10
40:16 55:22 56:7 17:14 criticized 3:25 52:24
4:24 5:9,19 5:11 8:11 12:7 consists 46:7 cut 3:22 developing 6:19
6:10 7:12,25 13:18,19,19,20,24 constant 3:14 5:5 develops 37:12
9:5,18,25 14:1,2,3,12,23 construct 9:14 D deviate 30:23
11:16,19 15:18,20,21,23 constructed 56:2 D 1:15 2:3,9 3:1,7 devised 15:16,17
13:13 14:4 16:1 21:9 23:24,25 construed 41:1 5:5,11,21,25 14:19 difference 9:7 12:10
15:1 24:2,24 26:15,19 consumers 3:19 18:11,16,18,24 12:14 32:9 42:13
16:2 17:11 27:9,10 28:2,4,6 corporation 1:3 3:4 19:4 35:24 36:8,19 different 5:16,24,25
19:21 28:10,16 30:17,22 45:18 37:16,18 39:7 11:18 13:9 14:5
21:3 31:19,24 35:10,12 corporations 8:5 53:14 18:5,10 19:5 22:15
23:11,15,18 35:14,16,17 36:21 45:17 danger 32:17 23:16,17 26:15,19
24:4,10 36:22,23,25 37:18 correct 24:1 data 45:13 27:8,10,11 35:23
25:11,19 37:20,23,25 40:4,8 costs 3:16,22 20:17 date 28:17 40:3,7 54:12 57:12
53:13 40:16 43:21 44:4 43:7 day 7:13 11:24 differently 6:22 10:8
elements 43:8 excessive 27:12 37:19 56:21 8:18 9:22 27:15
41:22 46:21 entire 37:1 38:15 find 11:13 57:7,8
51:17 entitled 25:10 42:10 exemptions 40:25 finished 47:18 form 29:8 40:18
41:8 51:23 equal 20:5 expenses 43:7 first 5:1 10:19 11:7 20:5 25:15 28:5
equation 5:4,5,8 6:8 experts 30:9,11 12:1 16:4 18:21 35:8 39:6 44:3
52:14 explained 22:10,12 45:22,23 46:5,5,6 formulas 40:20
estimating 11:14 26:17 40:22 42:24 47:13
33:17,19 evaluate 42:20 fact 5:4 9:14 10:4 flexibility 39:22 four-year 20:16
45:4,11 event 10:9 11:8 24:7,8,15 25:2 flip 7:17 34:5,7 37:1 46:7
events 11:10 36:8,19 38:14 40:7 floatation 4:15 7:3 46:11,25 47:10,17
21:9,10 28:3 36:4 39:18,25 factor 26:7,10 12:6,9,15,20 14:22 free 19:21
35:9,10 everybody's 33:20 factors 4:19 21:12 14:24 15:10,14 freeze 5:6
37:19 40:11 exact 14:3 15:25 26:6 17:1 18:9 19:12 freezing 5:7,10
18:9,9 55:4,20 fair 21:5 20:4,11,13 22:17 friend 35:23
27:10 exception 19:4 17:1,9,24 floated 37:25 25:22 28:9 29:25
56:13,13,25 49:7,7 50:13,14,19 kind 7:5 11:1 42:6,6
51:2 grossly 55:3 impose 4:5 13:7,9 information 54:8
50:17 29:15 55:16 56:4 48:9 56:5,22 54:24
28:22 40:24 happen 11:15 24:13 imposing 44:18 interested 6:15 50:4
50:2 51:3 51:5 45:16 Internal 1:6 3:5 law 50:1
happens 21:6 48:9 impute 28:15 35:11 interpretation 42:9 leaves 47:24 50:18
9:16 10:21 20:23 imputing 28:4 44:4 in-between 18:19 lesser 20:4
12:3,22 heart 46:23 52:19 IPO 4:3 29:8 54:1 let's 9:8 13:5 25:7
14:22 help 10:14 incentivize 20:19 IRS 36:16 41:6 45:24
18:2 19:19 helps 21:25 incidents 56:6 51:12 52:7 level 36:24
hesitating 34:24 include 43:10 issue 50:7 liability 13:8,10
26:7,18,23 high 7:19 33:4 included 16:5 life 30:1,4
27:4,4,6 higher 16:18,20 inclusion 43:9 J lines 42:11
32:6 34:8 highly 41:18 income 8:10 9:3 job 36:15 little 4:13,15,18
44:1 45:1 hindsight 12:1,3 10:8 11:9 22:7 judges 41:14 19:14 45:25 46:10
47:14,15 hit 17:22 26:25 27:3,5 28:1 46:10 47:25 54:5,6
48:17 hold 20:15 28:6 32:2,4,5,8,19 K 55:20
53:1 56:9 honest 41:12 33:2,3,9,14 34:2,8 Kagan 8:24 12:17 live 55:10
37:2 53:8 16:3 34:22 35:2,4,5 14:6,12,16,19,24 long 14:17 25:15
6:23 7:9 8:4 hurt 31:21 41:2,4 43:2,5,9,11 keep 3:14 12:6 look 4:10,11,21 6:3
34:9 37:5,24 hypothetical 8:3 44:3,7,10,11,15 52:24 6:14,24 8:6,19,21
44:18 52:2,20 13:18 46:17,23 44:19,23 45:7,11 Kennedy 7:7,12,22 9:13,14 10:6 13:4
15:11 16:18 mean 9:14,17 12:9 56:16 once 17:17 31:2,8 49:20,23 50:5 51:2
26:6 28:12 12:19 13:3 14:5,9 multiplying 31:13 ones 11:15 51:6,19
36:5 38:8,21 23:24 25:5 28:22 one-off 9:6,20 17:5
39:21,23 29:7 33:2 35:20 N one-quarter 46:18 P
51:8,9 57:8 36:13 39:15 41:12 N 2:1,1 3:1 one-time 9:2,6,23 P 3:1 32:22 47:10,11
43:12,13 51:16 narrowly 41:1 one-year 46:8 PAGE 2:2
55:1 means 23:6 30:22 nature 34:22 operate 16:15 19:14 22:6 24:24
19:22 57:7 50:20 needed 21:1 15:21 36:23 39:8 51:22,25 52:7 56:3
26:24 56:14 50:8,12,25 54:21 13:19,20 15:24 29:3 32:18 35:7,8
29:10 35:22 38:17 53:21 nickel 50:18 opposed 28:23 part 4:12 5:12 6:8
50:13 mentioned 9:19 nonconforming 43:8 opposition 3:24 20:24 21:13,14,20
33:4 53:5 52:24 38:22 39:1,23 42:10 particular 6:10 7:25
28:11 36:16 52:21 46:18 47:23 49:8 out-years 16:22 pay 4:15 14:3,4,5,14
28:10,13,24 O paying 13:25 28:13
36:24 27:21,22,24 28:14
31:17 O 2:1 3:1 29:2,11,13,16,19 33:20 36:24 52:10
54:8 56:21 obviously 11:6 30:5,12,14,19 pays 15:25 19:15
25:15 okay 12:24 23:1 38:10,18 39:15 people 3:23 28:13
47:6
57:19 24:17,17 27:11 41:23 42:7,15,18 36:16 39:8 41:13
25:1 32:1 47:4,21 48:5 45:12 47:3,5 48:1 percent 7:2 19:11
old 17:15 48:15,21 49:2,9,13 21:11 22:17,19
48:4,17,18
27:6 32:23 points 32:20 53:17 professors 10:13 proxy 28:18 realized 26:5 29:21
34:10 40:21 policies 20:15,20 professor's 32:20 pulled 7:5 29:24 43:5 50:24
48:20,22 pop 54:1,2 profit 4:12 5:13 21:7 purpose 7:8,14 54:19
portion 51:24 22:1 31:7,10,10,14 purposes 8:9,16,20 really 6:15,21 7:16
55:5,12 position 37:5,6 31:17 32:21 33:17 12:1 8:23 9:17 12:21,22
34:17 possibly 18:22 47:10,16,18 48:3 30:3 32:12 45:22 22:12 23:20 25:1
16:10 18:25 practice 3:20 23:6 53:2 55:21 Q reason 10:22 12:12
20:16 21:7 precise 54:5 profits 3:15 4:5,21 quarter 13:21 14:1 15:15 16:4,13
25:4 33:20 prediction 29:23 5:18 6:18,19 7:2 46:16,16 48:8 18:23 19:5 30:7
37:1 predominant 26:3 7:18,21,23 8:23 question 12:25 57:12
47:1,10,17 38:3,8 39:13,16 9:3 10:15 11:14 13:16 17:6 20:24 reasonably 17:22
56:5 42:21 43:3,12,13 13:9,10,14,17,23 25:8,21 32:2,3 reasons 9:11 40:23
present 11:3 46:24 15:22,25 16:1,17 questions 35:23 rebuttal 2:8 53:14
3:8 36:3 22:23 28:3,17 24:25 25:4,9,25 54:20
51:21,23 30:18,20 31:17 26:5,12,21 27:7,12 received 35:14,18
40:3 46:19 48:9 27:14,16,18 28:3,5
reconstructed 49:10
27:10 reducing 3:16
32:2 33:3,4 reflect 54:20
45:19 50:12 52:3,3,4
37:1 48:18 reformulate 32:15
49:10 52:9 32:17
reformulated 32:21
36:20 40:8 principle 6:12,13 12:13 19:8,9 54:14
privatize 3:13 54:14,16
40:12 44:17 regime 16:24 17:2
17:10
43:1 property 11:1,2,4
29:2 35:6 48:25 49:3 prospective 10:24
25:23 43:3 51:4,10,12
40:1 46:4 process 7:16 prototypical 27:18
54:18
52:23 products 50:16 provision 6:11
17:1,10 rewrite 42:21 43:14 42:13,14,20 46:12 small 16:21 substance 7:13 8:19
19:1 20:14 rewritten 40:21 47:10 sold 28:10,16,23 19:7 35:15 36:9
41:25 42:23 re-jiggered 3:18 Scalia 17:8 28:8,14 35:17 50:16 53:5,7 40:18 52:18,25
43:15 55:13 right 7:6,10 14:3,14 Sea 6:20 solely 44:6,7 57:4,9,11
56:8,15 44:6,13,25 45:3,6 shoe 57:12 specifically 15:17 suppose 7:7,22 8:25
43:15 17:14 25:8 57:10 37:21 States 1:1,12 27:14 sure 30:1 39:7 56:6
20:11 41:24 S 2:1 3:1 simple 56:24 statutory 43:14
27:23 saw 31:8 simply 11:14 46:10 28:17 40:3 53:21 table 11:11
55:4 37:14 38:2,11,12 situation 6:17 18:10 30:25 36:5 47:22,23
says 4:17 5:3 6:9 8:4 sixth 35:3 subsequent 10:11 takes 21:15 35:9
27:3,9,13 29:25 46:5 47:12,14 undermining 20:2 39:7 40:9 44:23
54:3 25:20 31:6 50:13 39:3 55:21 various 10:2
15:12 18:5,10 think 6:11 7:15,22 track 19:13,16,25 53:20 vast 38:5
27:16 34:14 8:4 10:3,4 14:15 trading 54:3 undervalued 55:3 view 9:4 22:10
40:11 19:6,16 22:13,14 transcript 50:3 uniform 3:24 views 43:2,3
52:5,14 22:15,17,18 25:11 transform 28:6 unique 54:12 vis-à-vis 7:19,20
32:16 44:5 34:25 35:1,14 36:2 treat 41:7,11 United 1:1,12 27:14 W
36:15 37:13,15 treated 41:4 52:5 40:13 45:16 wait 13:1 33:16,16
52:10 40:1,15 41:12,13 treaty 34:21 unmodified 54:13 want 4:12 8:5 10:14
45:22,23 38:1 42:2 40:16 52:19 53:9 1:18
three 5:16 16:15 twice 21:17,19 wasn't 49:3 50:7
19:8,9 54:14 20:3 41:25 42:22 two 5:16,25 12:5,10 v 1:5 3:4 6:11 37:5 4:25 5:3 6:2 8:5
42:25 43:15 12:14,15 13:18 valuation 10:20,21 10:20 13:4,5,11
54:17 15:9 16:21 17:10,23 18:21 25:22 26:7 28:5 20:12 22:15,19
57:14,15 15:22,24 18:11 two-year 48:11 valued 7:9 21:8,10 42:17 43:20 44:10
times 13:25 14:13 valuing 4:2 Wednesday 1:9
46:4 13:20 14:6 16:16 7
27:6 28:11
45:25 46:4
41:7 51:14,22 21:16,23 23:10,21 48:17,18 54:25 9 21:9,10 28:12
53:6 27:1,6 28:11 31:5 55:1,22 29:18 30:8,14 31:5
44:14 51:22,25 54:17,25 207 32:23 33:12 96 17:21
57:2 23 21:5 22:17 31:4
$ 3
30 54:7
35 34:10 52:11
55:19 365 47:12,14
33:5 38:5 1
54:9 55:23 4
55:19 4 23:10 32:22 47:16
1/4 56:19
19:11 23:8 54:25 56:8,17,19
52:17,18 33:13
27:6 43:25 4/9ths 7:3 15:14
26:1,2 100 55:5,12
38:2 22:19 23:3 40:22
40 22:24,25
41:22 48:13 48:22
1:4 3:4 51 48:23
57:18 51.75 7:2 22:19 23:7
18:19 1917 27:14 52 19:11
1918 27:15 53 2:10
33:18 34:19 1990 12:3 17:19
35:3 28:17 29:4 53:24 6
1997 17:20 51:22 6 21:19,19 22:4
51:22 23:13
