IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner : No. 12-418
v. :
ANTHONY JAMES KEBODEAUX :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, April 17, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:15 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
M. CAROLYN FUENTES, ESQ., Assistant Federal Public
Defender, San Antonio, Texas; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
M. CAROLYN FUENTES, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:15 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 12-418, United States v.
Kebodeaux.
Mr. Dreeben.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Convicted sex offenders pose a serious
threat to public safety. When those convictions are
entered under Federal law, Congress has the authority to
impose both a criminal and a civil sanction for that
conduct in order to protect the public.
The Fifth Circuit in this case applied a per
se rule that once Respondent had completed his military
sentence, Congress lost authority to apply a civil
sanction for that violation of Federal law.
That per se rule is wrong.
Nothing in Article I prevents Congress from
legislating retroactively with respect to civil remedies
for past violations of Federal law. The Ex Post Facto
Clause, the Due Process Clause, and Article I analysis
under the Necessary and Proper Clause all provide some
degree of protection against retroactive provisions, but
no per se rule bars Congress from applying sex offender
registration requirements, which this Court has held to
be civil remedies not barred by the Ex Post Facto Clause
to past Federal criminal convictions.
Now -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the limit of that
power? How -- for any Federal conviction, whether it's
related to sex offense or anything else, Congress could
impose any kind of registration requirement?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, certainly, Justice
Sotomayor -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could it ask every
convicted Federal felon to come in for a DNA test,
because we know that people who have been convicted of a
crime are more likely to be recidivists?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Sotomayor, there
are independent constitutional limits both outside of
Article I and within Article I that mean that I will
answer your question no, it's not the case that my
position today means there are no limits. There are
limits. If we -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what -- what is the
limit? Is it just safety? It can't be just safety of
the public, because you just said that it doesn't apply
to recidivist Federal offenders, generally.
MR. DREEBEN: The -- the principal
limitation on retroactive legislation is the Ex Post
Facto Clause. Indeed, there would have been no need for
an Ex Post Facto Clause if the Fifth Circuit were
correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't understand. I
just posited a civil registration for Federal offenders
of any kind. That's not ex post facto under your
theory, so -
MR. DREEBEN: So if -- if the Court agrees
that it's not a punitive measure and it is a remedial
measure -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I don't know if I
agree with that, but accept -- accepting that
hypothetical.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, if you don't agree with
it, then you'll be going on the Ex Post Facto Clause,
and you won't be getting to Article I.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, you know, that's
settled law. Whether it's right or wrong is a different
issue.
MR. DREEBEN: It is settled law, and that
means that sex offender registration provisions aren't
punitive. The question here is, are they within
Article I. And the Court in United States v. Comstock
went through an elaborate Necessary and Proper Clause
analysis -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, in Comstock,
it was very different than the situation here, because
the analysis was that the Federal Government basically
was the source of the problem in incarcerating sex
offenders away from the State so that no State felt an
obligation to do something with the problem of their
release.
You don't have anything of that sort here.
MR. DREEBEN: No. This provision, Mr. Chief
Justice, rests on a different analysis than Comstock.
In Comstock, the problem was caused by Federal custody
that, as Your Honor has said, broke the relationship
between the individual and some State that might take
cognizance of him for purposes of sex offender civil
commitment.
The basis for the statute in Comstock was
that people in Federal custody, regardless of the nature
of their prior convictions, might pose threats if
released. The basis for the statute in this case is not
that the individual was in Federal custody. Federal
custody is irrelevant to it. The basis for the statute
in this case is that this is a sex offender in violation
of Federal law, and Congress has the authority to
impose, as was done in this case, criminal punishment,
but it also has the authority to impose civil regulatory
sanctions.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So I assume that applies to
all Federal crimes, right? Anyone convicted of any
Federal crime can thereafter be subjected to whatever
civil restraints Congress later decides are -- are a
good idea in order to prevent that crime, that type of
crime from reoccurring, right? I mean, nothing peculiar
here about sex crimes. Any -- any crime Congress can
later decide, you know, it would be a good idea if
when -- when a person has committed, I don't know, crime
with the use of a gun, we -- we impose retroactively all
sorts of different civil limitations.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Scalia, there is
no per se rule in Article I that forbids retroactive
civil regulations imposed on a Federal offender. So the
question -
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, that's not the
point, that it's -- that it's retroactive. The point is
that it is not in execution of a Federal power.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think the whole point
in this case is that it's retroactive, because there
isn't any serious dispute that if somebody commits a
Federal sex offense they can be placed on supervised
release for life so -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That would be an execution
of a Federal power -
MR. DREEBEN: Well, so is this.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the power -- the power
to prevent that crime and to punish it.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, but Congress's power is
not limited to preventing and punishing crimes through
criminal law. Except for a brief interlude under United
States v. Halper where this Court viewed double jeopardy
as precluding multiple criminal and civil sanctions, the
Court has recognized that when someone violates Federal
law they're exposed both to criminal punishment and to
civil sanctions. The criminal punishment has to comply
with the Ex Post Facto Clause; the civil sanctions do
not. So what the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But they have to be imposed
simultaneously as -- as the punishment for the crime of
which the individual has been convicted. Here, the
trial is over, the conviction is over, and then some
years later the Federal Government decides, oh, it would
be a good idea if people who have committed sex crimes
are -- are subjected to these limitations. That's quite
different from imposing that simultaneously as -- as a
punishment for the crime. This is not a punishment for
the crime, right?
MR. DREEBEN: That's precisely -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. DREEBEN: -- what makes it a civil
sanction. But, Justice Scalia, Your Honor is
presupposing that Congress can only react to a sex crime
through the criminal law and that it must have those
laws in place at the time of the punishment, and there
is no such Article I precept.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your argument
depends in no way on the fact that he was convicted of a
Federal offense or -- or incarcerated for that offense,
nothing at all? We're just here arguing about the
retroactivity under -- whether they have the authority
under Article I to impose punishment for not registering
under State law?
MR. DREEBEN: This case turns entirely on
the fact that the defendant is a Federal offender. The
source of power in question was the power to regulate
the armed forces. This is an individual who committed a
sex crime while in the armed forces. And Congress's
power to address that and to prescribe remedies for it
both civil and criminal is entirely tied to the Federal
nature of the offense.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, we start out with the
power under the Constitution to make rules to regulate
the military and we end up with a registration
requirement that applies to someone who's not in the
military and perhaps is not even living anywhere near
any military installation. So what would be helpful for
me is to start out with the constitutional provision,
identify a purpose of that that is served by this civil
registration that is imposed later, and trace this whole
progress through the Necessary and Proper Clause.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Alito, I think the
most helpful way to do that would be for me to progress
through a series of examples that illustrate how
protecting the public against a Federal sex offender is
a legitimate aim under the Necessary and Proper Clause
to implement the underlying constitutional authority.
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes.
MR. DREEBEN: So start with a sex offender
who commits a sex offense in the military, is tried,
court-martialed and sentenced. Subject to cruel and
unusual punishment limitations, due process limitations,
et cetera, that individual can be incarcerated, placed
on supervised release potentially up to life. A
condition of supervised release, well-recognized and now
mandated by Federal law, is that that individual
register as a sex offender. And the reason that that is
tied to Federal law is that when an individual violates
Federal law it is a legitimate purpose of Congress to
protect the public against recidivism by that
individual. So that's the criminal example that I
believe is undisputed.
Now, suppose that the Federal Government
didn't actually get the sex offender while he was in the
military. It missed the crime, but later information
comes to light still within the statute of limitations
that shows that while this person was in the military
they committed a sex offense. This court in United
States ex rel. Toth v. Quarles made clear that that
individual can be tried in an Article III court for his
criminal violation even though he's out of the military.
It's enforcing the rules that were impressed upon him at
the time while he was in the military.
Now let me give a civil example and then I
will bring it right back to this case. Suppose that
Congress concludes that sex offenses in the military are
a very serious problem and that there are a lot of
people who have escaped prosecution because of lax
interest in pursuing those crimes. And after a period
of years, it sets up a board of inquiry and it says this
board of inquiry is going to look into sex offenses that
were committed at the time that people were in the
military, even if they're out of the military, and we're
going to subpoena people to testify, and if individuals
are determined in a civil proceeding to have committed
sex offenses they may have their military records
revised, they may lose military benefits, and they may
have other civil sanctions imposed upon them.
JUSTICE ALITO: When you say in a civil
proceeding, you mean?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, noncriminal.
Noncriminal.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it's just by a
preponderance of the evidence we think this guy
probably, you know, 51/49, committed a sex crime.
MR. DREEBEN: Not going to be a criminal
punishment that's imposed at the end of the day.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So just -- just more -
more likely than not is the test.
MR. DREEBEN: That's an acceptable level of
proof for the civil law.
And if Congress can do that in order to
protect the integrity of the military and to promote
confidence in the military, then it's a very small step,
if any step at all, to SORNA.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but if they can
do that. But that's not what they've done here. Your
argument, as you told me a while ago, is linked to the
Federal offense and the incarceration.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, absolute -- well,
Mr. Chief Justice, it's not linked to the incarceration.
This is the difference between this case and Comstock,
and this is why the Solicitor General's concession in
Comstock on which the Fifth Circuit heavily relied has
no applicability here.
In Comstock, it was irrelevant what offense
the individual had been committed. The problem was he
was in Federal custody, he was sexually dangerous at the
time he would be released. Ties had been broken between
him and the community, and if he were released it would
pose a threat to public safety that the Federal
Government had power to protect against.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because the States
were not doing anything about it.
MR. DREEBEN: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Here you have a
situation where I think at the time every State dealt
with the issue of whether the sex offenders should have
to register or not.
MR. DREEBEN: That's correct. But Federal
law did as well and Federal law provided encouragement.
This is actually a primary example of partnership
between State governments and the Federal Government.
The Federal Government offers financial support, it
offers logistical assistance, it offers tremendous
resources of the U.S. marshals to track down sex
offenders.
And as this Court said in Carr v. United
States, it was entirely reasonable for Congress to have
assigned a special responsibility for prosecuting
Federal sex offenders who failed to register. This was
integral to this Court's reasoning in Carr, where the
Court was confronted with two provisions of 2250, the
criminal sex offense provision under SORNA. For State
offenders, there had to be travel in interstate
commerce; for Federal offenders there didn't.
The Government argued that the provisions
ought to be given as co-extensive a reach as possible so
that the coverage of the statute would be equally
comprehensive for both State and Federal. And this
Court -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The discussion so far has
assumed, your discussion primarily, that there's this
line between civil and criminal, we don't need to worry
about ex post facto. Is that line made clear in our
precedents or is there some room to argue that if the
line is somewhat blurred that there may be ex post facto
concerns here and that that in turn is a reason for
constitutional avoidance when we evaluate your argument?
Is that -- is the civil -- a criminal
distinction with reference to ex post facto clause
absolutely foreclosed and clear in the facts of this
case?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, it is, I believe, Justice
Kennedy. In an opinion that you wrote for the Court,
Smith v. Doe, which considered the retroactivity of
Alaska's sex offender registration and notification
provisions, which are similar but not identical, to the
Federal provisions, the Court went through the
established analysis to determine whether the
legislature had intended a punitive effect and if it
didn't, whether there was the clearest proof that it was
punishment in purpose and effect.
Notwithstanding the legislature's intent,
the Court upheld the retroactive applicability of sex
offender registration and notification, making clear
that it is not governed by the Ex Post Facto Clause.
Now, that's not to say that an individual
couldn't argue that SORNA is different or an individual
couldn't argue that the Due Process Clause makes it
either irrational or substantively off limits to impose
this kind of civil remedy. The individual can also
argue that running this through the Comstock factors,
it's not reasonably adapted to fulfilling Congress's
aim. But what the Fifth Circuit did is apply a per se
rule that it drew, I think, from the Solicitor General's
statement in Comstock that once an individual got out of
custody and was back in the control of the State and
within its jurisdiction and population, then the Federal
Government couldn't reach out and commit him as a sex
offender.
And there are two main distinctions between
that concession and this case. The first is, as I've
already alluded to, the Government's argument in
Comstock was based on custody. This case is based on
the consequences of the conviction itself. The second
distinction is that committing somebody civilly is a
massive intrusion on that individual's relationship with
the State.
The individual has been brought within
Federal custody; they have no relationship with the
State anymore. Whereas sex offender notification is far
more accommodating of State interests.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Dreeben -
JUSTICE SCALIA: To -- to what does this
civil -- civil-criminal line apply? Suppose instead of
a registration requirement, Congress just decided, you
know, our past punishments for sex offenses have not
been -- have not been severe enough, and so we are now
going to impose a civil fine on all -- all persons who
have been convicted in Federal court of sex crimes.
It's a civil -- it's a civil penalty, not a criminal
penalty. That's okay?
MR. DREEBEN: It's not per se barred by
Article I, Justice Scalia. The question of whether it's
constitutional is really a question of individual rights
analysis and whether it passes through the necessary and
proper gate under the considerations similar to what the
Court looked at in Comstock.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I find that difficult to
believe that -
MR. DREEBEN: Well, there's no -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that whether it's ex
post facto and impermissible or not is simply
eliminated, that issue was eliminated by simply calling
it civil.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, it's not eliminated. It
still is available for an individual to argue, as
Respondent did in this case in the district court but
abandoned long before he got to the court of appeals,
that it violates due process, that it violates ex post
facto.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm talking about the -- ex
post facto.
MR. DREEBEN: He can argue that. I submit
that he will lose.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because it's civil.
MR. DREEBEN: If it in fact is civil and
passes through this Court's analysis, then yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I find that difficult
to grasp.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, it's actually quite well
established as a principle of double jeopardy law in
cases like Hudson v. United States and United States v.
Ursery. It's established in ex post facto law as a
consequence of Smith v. Doe. It's the foundation for
deciding whether a proceeding requires preponderance of
the evidence versus proof beyond a reasonable of doubt.
The Court has articulated this line in a variety of
contexts.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your argument
based -- your argument based on Congress's authority
with respect to the military, your Article I argument,
and you say it doesn't make a difference that he's no
longer in the military, does that -- do you come out
differently if the basis for jurisdiction is asserted to
be inter -- interstate commerce?
MR. DREEBEN: No. As long -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The fact that
somebody at some time in their life traveled across
State lines means that the Federal Government can go
back, even though their activity that's challenged in
the particular instance is only intrastate, and still
assert jurisdiction over them?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, that would probably fail
a Necessary and Proper Clause analysis, in which there
has to be a showing that the measure is plainly adapted
to furthering the underlying power. This is not a
difficult problem that the Court has never confronted
before. It has resulted in difficult permutations on
particular facts, but the Court has always recognized
that there is broad Necessary and Proper Clause
authority subject to limits. Those limits -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: As broad as that
authority is, perhaps I'm going back to Justice Alito's
question, which is if you put aside that it's part of
the punishment because you say it's not part of the
punishment, you want us not to look at it as punishment
because otherwise you'd run into the ex post facto
problem, you're saying we have a need today. Outside of
protecting the public from a recidivist, what's the
interest? Because that wasn't enough in Comstock. We
made it very clear that wasn't enough.
So if you take out all of the punishment
aspects of this, which you should have done at the time
he was sentenced and not now, what remains in terms of
the Federal interest?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Sotomayor -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's promoted?
MR. DREEBEN: There is a sufficient Federal
interest in protecting the public from someone who
committed a Federal crime. Supervised release
essentially performs that function.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that was -- why did
we even bother going through anything in Comstock? If
that stands alone as a Federal interest, then anything
we do at any point with respect to any person who's
violated a Federal law would stand in the same shoes.
MR. DREEBEN: It's a valid -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You could do whatever
civil penalties you want for as long as you want. We go
back to my initial question and Justice -
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Sotomayor, really, the
answer to your question is the same. The answer to all
of your questions is the same, which is that there is an
analysis that the Court went through in Comstock where
it took into consideration history, it took into
consideration the nature of the fit between the purpose
of Congress and the activity that it was regulated. It
took into account the degree to which the State
interests were accommodated, and it took into account
the degree of attenuation between the regulation and the
underlying offense. And it -- it didn't open up
Congress to say any offense you've ever committed means
Congress owns you for life, it can do whatever you want.
It has to pass through an analysis.
But the Fifth Circuit never conducted that
analysis except for believing that once the individual
had completed military service, once the individual had
completed his criminal sentence, Congress lost all
authority.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm getting confused
between two different assertions of a Federal interest.
Earlier you talked about the integrity of the military
forces. They go back later, they think they should
address the fact that people were engaging in criminal
activities when in the military, they weren't -- they
weren't found out, they weren't prosecuted. Later on
they can go back.
But then you say that the interest that's at
issue here is preventing recidivism, and that doesn't
seem to have anything to do with the integrity of the
military force.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, it does because when the
criminal law finds someone who has violated Federal law,
many of the purposes of the sanctions that are imposed
on that individual are public protection purposes and
anti-recidivism purposes. Most of the things that are
done on supervised release fulfill those purposes. If
those purposes were not validly connected to taking
someone who's violated criminal law and imposing a suite
of sanctions on them, then supervised release would
apparently be beyond Congress's authority.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It -- it seems to me that
when -- when you say that as your answer to the Chief
Justice, you're -- you're no longer relying on -- on the
power to regulate the military. You're relying on -- on
some general Federal power to protect citizens against
people who have committed any Federal crimes. And I --
I don't see that enumerated power in the Constitution.
Yes, I see a power to regulate the military, but your
description, it has nothing to do with regulating the
military. It has to do with protecting the -- the
public at large from people who have committed Federal
crimes, military or not.
MR. DREEBEN: As the Court has pointed out
numerous times, including in Comstock, there is very
little authority in the Constitution in an enumerated
way for criminal law at all. All of criminal law, with
the exception of a handful of instances that are
specified in the Constitution, comes in by virtue of the
Necessary and Proper Clause.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right, because it
protects Federal functions. The Federal -- the criminal
applicability to the armed forces protects the function
of regulating the armed forces. But how does protecting
the public at large from people who have committed a
crime in the armed forces, how does that have anything
to do with regulating the armed forces.
MR. DREEBEN: That is inherent in taking
somebody who violated Federal law and imposing
appropriate sanctions on them for that violation.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dreeben, it would help
me in answering some of these questions if you went
through the analysis on the assumption that this was
instead a Commerce Clause case. So take the military
out of it; what would the necessary and proper analysis
look like?
MR. DREEBEN: It would look essentially the
same, Justice Kagan. Somebody who violates a Federal
law that's premised on the Commerce Clause, say a sex
offender who travels in interstate commerce with the
intent to commit a sex offense, has placed himself
within the regulatory authority of the Federal
Government. Now, that individual can be criminally
prosecuted for that violation, and that violation
furthers Congress's interests in regulating interstate
commerce.
Congress could also decide, you know, for
some of these sex offenders, criminal punishment is not
the right approach. The right approach is mandate sex
offender rehabilitative counseling. And it might
discover that that's so effective for a class of
offenders that it's going to apply that even to people
whose offenses were committed before the law in question
is passed. It can't punish those people based on
retroactive legislation, but it can reach them with a
civil remedial measure so long as it passes through the
Comstock-type analysis of the Necessary and Proper
Clause.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dreeben, you say
nothing about the -- what was the opening argument in -
in your brief, that the assumption that SORNA is
something new added after is wrong because there were
these predecessor laws that established a Federal
requirement to register.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Ginsburg, I believe
that the Fifth Circuit was wrong on that too. As we
describe in our brief, Title 42 Section 14072(i)(3) and
(4) did, in our view, impose criminal punishment on
Respondent for failing to register as a sex offender at
the time he was in the military.
We think the Fifth Circuit was wrong on that
statutory analysis, but, more fundamentally, the Fifth
Circuit was wrong in thinking that it mattered whether
he was under some sort of Federal criminal jurisdiction
at the time that he was released from Federal custody.
And if I could reserve the rest of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dreeben.
Ms. Fuentes.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF M. CAROLYN FUENTES
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. FUENTES: Yes. Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
The Government asks this Court to go beyond
its holding in United States v. Comstock to allow the
Federal Government to reach back, after a Federal
sentence has expired, to bring back into Federal control
a person who has returned to the authority of the State.
And I'm quite surprised to hear the
Government say that this is not a Comstock analysis.
I'm not sure they stuck with that throughout the
argument, but I think the Comstock factors are factors
that this Court looks at quite frequently in doing any
kind of a necessary and proper analysis.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Going back to -- to a
prior question, are you challenging -- you didn't on
appeal, but it seems as if you're accepting that the
Federal Government has the power to impose this
requirement as part of a Federal sentence.
MS. FUENTES: I think that's correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Are you -
if it's not part of a Federal sentence but part of
release, it's not announced at the sentence but it's
announced at the time the prisoner is put into
supervised release or release from jail, do you think
the Government has the power to impose it then?
MS. FUENTES: In this case, on these facts
and based on the Federal statutes that exist today, the
answer is yes. And the illustration, I think, is the
way that SORNA works today. As the Government
mentioned -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, SORNA today
becomes part of the supervised relief terms.
MS. FUENTES: Correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not talking about
SORNA today.
MS. FUENTES: Okay.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm talking about just
any prisoner who has been in jail but it's not made, has
not been paid, part of the punishment.
MS. FUENTES: I think the law permits a
sentencing judge -- I'm not talking about Congress, but
a sentencing judge -- to go back and impose additional
conditions of supervised release.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I don't know of
that power, but do you have a statutory -
MS. FUENTES: It's 18 -- 18 United States
Code Section 3583. And 3583 permits the sentencing
judge to change conditions of supervised release based
on the factors that are considered important in
sentencing in 18 United States Code Section 3583.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So that
power -- I guess then what the Government is saying, as
I understand their argument, if you have the power to do
it at that point, why can't you have the power to do it
later?
MS. FUENTES: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are the same factors
that compel permission for the Government to do it then?
MS. FUENTES: It's because the way the
statute works, even though it wasn't announced at
sentence, supervised release is considered to be part of
the sentence. So if I understand the question
correctly, the reason the court can go back and impose
those conditions and possibly the reason that Congress
can go back and do it is because those statutes that
I've mentioned, 3583 and 3553, have given notice to the
individual.
JUSTICE ALITO: We are not talking -- I'm
sorry.
MS. FUENTES: That's all right.
JUSTICE ALITO: I didn't mean to interrupt
your question.
MS. FUENTES: It's all right.
JUSTICE ALITO: We're not talking about
statutory authorization. We are talking about
constitutional power. So if we start out with the
example of registration for life being imposed as part
of supervised release, part of the criminal sentence,
then we go to an example where it is not part of the
criminal sentence but it is a civil requirement
triggered by a separate civil proceeding for every
Federal -- every person convicted of a sex offense under
Federal law.
Now, if that were the setup statutorily,
would that fall within Congress's power under Article 1?
MS. FUENTES: I think not, but I want to
qualify that because it depends on what powers Congress
is relying on.
And let me give an example. I know the
Government was -- a lot of the Government's argument
relies on this difference between criminal and civil
consequences.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, we know what -- and we
know what power they are relying on. Let's just look at
the power that they're relying on here: It's the power
to make rules for the regulation of the military. So
part of their -- in the exercise of their power to make
rules for the regulation of the military, they impose a
civil sex offender registration requirement for someone
convicted of a sex offense under the Uniform Code of
Military Justice. That does not, in your judgment, fall
within Article I?
MS. FUENTES: It does if the person is still
in the military or if he has been -- or if he has
committed a criminal offense and the prosecutorial
power, the Federal power to prosecute him for that
offense, has not been exhausted, yes, that can be done.
JUSTICE KAGAN: How about if he is on
supervised release? He is not in the military, but his
entire sentence has not been completed.
MS. FUENTES: I think if he is still being
supervised by the military, then I think it's likely
that power exists.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Then why not this?
MS. FUENTES: Because Mr. Kebodeaux was not
on supervised release.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well -- why not? I mean,
look, this is -- Thomas Reed Powell once said, "If you
can think of a thing that is inextricably related to
another thing without thinking of the other thing, then
you have the legal mind," and that seems to be this
case. All right?
MS. FUENTES: Yes, but -
JUSTICE BREYER: So somehow I have to get
out of my mind the ex post facto part, the potential
violation of due process part, the equal protection
part, take that aside. Now I've got to just think about
whether it has, the Congress has the power under the
provision that Justice Alito said. I'm trying to do
that, and I've dissented in other cases on other
grounds.
All right. But in -- in just trying to do
that, I think, well, the military, suppose they found a
certain number of -- of individuals, men or women, have
unfortunate problems in the military. They discover
there is a mental illness problem; the person's out of
the military. But the law says you can go and tell the
local mental health authorities about this person even
though he's no longer there.
And suppose the person had a criminal
problem in the military and was in prison and suppose
the law said, you know, you're the ones who got the
situation where he unfortunately got into that problem,
and you, later on, can -- can go and tell authorities
about his problems so they can take appropriate action.
Now, if they can do that, why can't they
have the power under Article I to say really, you all
have to register. Now, maybe there are other things,
but you got this problem in the military. You were
convicted in the military. You did it in the military.
We turned you loose and there you are, and we want, as
part of our military regulation, to be able to tell
authorities about you and to make you register according
to State law.
Now, no due process problem; I have to
assume that away. No punishment, bad punishment
problem, none of those. But it's a power, all right?
Why not?
MS. FUENTES: Well, the power can't go to
both of the examples that you've given. I don't see any
problem with them giving notice. That does not impose a
Federal obligation on an individual. So there is no
power being exerted on the individual. They can have a
public -- a public protection purpose and they can
tell -- tell authorities who need to deal with the
individual, and those authorities may have the power
through State power -
JUSTICE BREYER: Where you're leading me,
because I'm not so worried about this case, but where
you're leading me is down in Commerce Clause cases and
all kinds of other cases, suddenly a distinction arises
that Congress can, in fact, do all kinds of things
having Federal authorities do this and that, but you
couldn't make someone in a State -- you know, you can
imagine a few that are coming into my mind -- and so
what I'm worried about is following this distinction
into other areas.
MS. FUENTES: I don't think that is a
problem, and I think the reason is I disagree
fundamentally with the Government. I think necessary
and proper analysis is important in each case and it
does bear similarities in each case. But depending on
the power being relied upon, the analysis can be quite
different. Commerce Clause is a very broad power.
I can't say whether this sort of thing,
depending on the Commerce Clause, would be right or
would be wrong. Look at the power to make a uniform
rule of naturalization.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me -- let me try
this chain of reasoning out on you and -- and get your
reaction. We're starting out with the power of Congress
to make rules for the regulation of the military. And
one of the things that they want to do in making those
rules is to make military installations acceptable to
the local communities where they are located.
They know from experience, for example, it's
happened in Okinawa, that when have you military
personnel who go -- who commit sex offenses with people
off base, it can cause tremendous opposition. And this
is what happened here; not the opposition, but an
offense involving a 15-year-old girl who lived off the
base.
So in order to ensure that there -- we don't
have excessive civilian opposition to the location of
military bases, we are going to do a number of things.
One thing is we're going to criminally prosecute members
of the military who commit these offenses. This will
deter; this will incapacitate. But also, to provide
further assurance to the community that these people are
not going to be dangerous, we are going to require them
to register.
Now, maybe that's too attenuated, but I'd
like to get your reaction. Why could Congress not do
that under the Necessary and Proper Clause?
MS. FUENTES: Well, I think while that
person is still within the criminal jurisdiction, or any
Federal jurisdiction, it could be done. I think that
once that jurisdiction has been exhausted, once the
criminal prosecution power has been exhausted, once the
person has returned to the authority of the State, and I
think that analysis is important always.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't have to go that
far though to -- to distinguish the example that Justice
Alito just gave. This is not a statute which only
requires him to registrate -- to register if he hangs
around the military installation. This requires him to
registrate anywhere, you know, in the -- in the wilds of
Alaska where -- it's just not this case.
And even -- even if you would allow that,
and say it is a reasonable -- it has a reasonable
connection to the power to regulate the military, to say
wherever he goes he has to register is -- is a different
question, isn't it?
MS. FUENTES: I think it may well be.
JUSTICE BREYER: But yet, now that's exactly
the problem for me, because the -- the wilds of
Alaska you think I think, and I think I think, that -
that sure, if there's a post office there -- there's a
post office there, then what -- the military is all
right, they can mail a letter to the -- to be delivered
to the local doctor to say, look, he has a problem.
That seems to be okay.
But you say it's not going to be okay to
tell him he has to go and make that registration. At
that point what you've done is like Madison. I mean,
it's an interpretation of the Commerce Clause that I
think Madison might have wanted, which is you're reading
a lack of power because of a civil rights problem.
I mean, it's -- the difference between the
two cases is really not the need because we have to
assume the need. The difference is the restriction on
the individual. And it's that part that I'm suddenly
worried about the Commerce Clause and every power in
Article I being read with exceptions in the civil rights
area even though we have the amendments to protect the
civil rights problems.
MS. FUENTES: I haven't thought of it that
way and that really isn't the argument that I'm making.
I think that the military has jurisdiction. It's gotten
information about this individual when it had power over
him and they can talk to whomever they care to about
him, or whether -
JUSTICE SCALIA: We've never -- we've never
held, have we, that what the Federal Government can
itself do under the Necessary and Proper Clause it can
impose upon individuals to do under the Necessary and
Proper Clause? Aren't there two different -- what is
necessary and proper for the Federal Government itself
to do is not necessarily necessary and proper for the
Federal Government to require private individuals to do.
MS. FUENTES: I absolutely agree with that.
And I think that this goes back to something that the
Government -- well, it gives me an opportunity to
address something the Government has said about the
Fifth Circuit's opinion. That it is a per se rule, and
that is just incorrect. I -- I have to disagree with
that. And I have to disagree with it because the -
everything the Fifth Circuit said was limited by these
facts.
These facts are what controls the case. And
the Fifth Circuit took great care to make a very narrow
ruling. And that ruling, the Fifth Circuit said, is
that it's unconstitutional, SORNA's requirements, as
applied to Mr. Kebodeaux and others like him. It has no
effect on Congress's ability to impose conditions on a
prisoner's release from custody or on Congress's ability
to effect the registration requirements for anyone who
has been convicted after SORNA's enactment.
So really, it is not a per se rule. It is a
rule, maybe you call it per se as it -- as it affects
people in Mr. Kebodeaux's position, but I think that is
very different from what the Government is arguing.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess, Ms. Fuentes, what I
don't quite understand about the argument, this goes
back to Justice Alito's original question. You seem to
say that if this -- if Congress passed a civil statute
like this one within the time that Mr. Kebodeaux was in
custody or within the time that he was under supervised
release, that that would be appropriate.
But I guess what I don't get is why the
Federal interests change, whether it's the day before he
gets out of supervised release or the day after he gets
out of supervised release. What in the Federal
interests shift based on that?
MS. FUENTES: I'll answer that question
first, then come back to another.
It's not a question, I don't think, of
Federal interest. It's a question of Federal power.
And you have to look at the individual power being
exercised. And so the way I look at it is what's the
difference if the Federal Government makes a rule for a
person in the military before -- when he's in the
military or after he gets out of the military? That's
all the difference in the world. In -- in -- that's our
argument. That is all the difference in the world.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I wasn't assuming that
he was in the military while he was on supervised
release.
MS. FUENTES: I'm sorry. I didn't hear.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I was assuming that he was
out of the military in both these cases, but that you
said while he was still serving his sentence, it would
be appropriate for Congress to add this additional
thing, but not after.
MS. FUENTES: I think -
JUSTICE KAGAN: In both cases, he's not in
the military anymore.
MS. FUENTES: Constitutionally, it -- it can
be all right constitutionally, depending on the
statutory procedures that govern it. And the way that
the Federal law operates now, the statutes that I
mentioned, 3583 and 3553, the way those statutes -
statutes operate is they -- they give someone notice
that their conditions of supervised release can be -
can be changed. And so there isn't an ex post facto
problem with that.
And there isn't a power problem with that,
because the criminal -- the power to make the criminal
offense and punish it still exists while that person is
on supervised release. It has expired with respect to
Mr. Kebodeaux, and I think that is one of the most
important points in this case, and it goes along with
the Comstock analysis.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it your argument that
Congress lacks the power to impose supervised release
after the date when the person leaves the military?
MS. FUENTES: No. After the criminal
sentence is served.
I'm sorry. Maybe I didn't understand the
question.
JUSTICE ALITO: Someone is sentenced to
prison -
MS. FUENTES: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- under the UCMJ, released,
dishonorably discharged from the military. Can Congress
say the person has to remain on supervised release for a
longer period of time after he is returned to civilian
status?
MS. FUENTES: Not if -- not unless it was -
that provision was imposed as part of the sentence or
while he was still within the Federal power, before the
Federal criminal jurisdiction expires.
JUSTICE ALITO: See, I understand -- I can
understand why that might create -- that might raise all
sorts of constitutional arguments about notice and so
forth.
But I don't see how that -- how that
connects with the question whether Congress has the
power to do it under -- under Article I -
MS. FUENTES: Well, I'm not sure -
JUSTICE ALITO: -- under the power to
regulate the military.
MS. FUENTES: Yes. I'm not sure I'm
answering the question correctly, but that power doesn't
last forever. The powers -- there are some powers in
the Constitution which may last longer than others, and
the example I raised before was the rule of making
uniform naturalization. That's a broader power, I
think, than the military power.
And we see that in the cases the
Government's mentioned and we've mentioned, the Toth
case and the Kinsella case.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you could be making
the argument that the power to make rules for the
military applies only to people who are in the military,
and that once you're out of the military that power does
not permit Congress to do anything special to you.
But you're not making that argument, I
gather.
MS. FUENTES: No. No, I'm not making that
argument. And again, it goes to the individual facts
and the power asserted and the way the power operates
always makes a difference.
The example that the Government gave with
that board of inquiry and being able to bring people
back in, I find that whole scenario very questionable.
But there -- there were people who were -- were
receiving military benefits, if I understood it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How would you write this
opinion if you wanted to protect against what Justice
Breyer was concerned about, constricting the Commerce
Clause, which has been since Madison more broadly
defined than he did, or Justice Alito's example of
ensuring that you're not closing off other things that
can be done after someone leaves, that might be related
to, like punishing a crime that you find out about
afterwards. How would you write this opinion?
MS. FUENTES: Just the way the Fifth Circuit
did in its en banc opinion.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it wasn't really
helpful, because it -- it doesn't give us a limiting
principle like -- I don't know if it's possible -- that
if you're relying on just recidivism, Congress has to
have an independent basis, a power for the imposition
of -- of criminal or civil sanctions on someone.
MS. FUENTES: I'm not certain an opinion
like that could be written. I think that the limits,
the limitations that exist, are on the narrowness of the
way the opinion is written. But future cases I don't
think can be decided that way.
Certainly, principles can be articulated
which help to limit. And I think the -- the best you
can say in terms of limiting principles is it's going to
depend on the enumerated power upon which the government
relies to impose this obligation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how -- I'm not
sure that makes much sense. You're saying if they're
relying on the enumerated power with respect to the
military, they can do more than if they're relying on
the enumerated power over interstate commerce?
MS. FUENTES: No. And if that's your
understanding -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So in what sense -
MS. FUENTES: -- I -- I apologize. I did not
mean that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, in what sense
does it then depend on which enumerated power they're
invoking?
MS. FUENTES: Well, let -- let me give an
example that goes to the collateral consequence cases
that the Government raised.
The Government raises, for example, the
Hudson case, where a person who is convicted of bank
fraud both can be punished criminally and then can be
debarred civilly from participating any more with
Federal Government contracts. I think the words that
were used in the Hudson case were "no longer may have
business doings with an insured bank."
Okay, that has to be, I think, the spending
power. The Government can decide with whom it wants to
do business. If it's dealing with an insured bank, then
it can impose that civil consequence. And it can do
it -- I don't want to use the word "independently" of.
They may do it by reason of the criminal conviction, but
there is an independent power to do it.
That power doesn't exist here, and so it
would have to be -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They say -- they say
it exists by virtue of the enumerated power to regulate
the military forces.
MS. FUENTES: Well, I don't think it does.
Perhaps I don't understand the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm trying to
see why you're saying the enumerated power under the
Spending Clause allows them to take this subsequent
action, but the enumerated power under the Military
Clause does not.
MS. FUENTES: Well, because the -- I'm
sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought
that if you're arguing under the Necessary and Proper
Clause, that you need an enumerated power that the
Necessary and Proper Clause is going to serve.
But I don't see how it makes a difference
which enumerated power you're talking about.
MS. FUENTES: I think it all -- I think it
does turn on the nature of the power. I mean, could you
use the military power to say you, Mr. Bank Fraud
Client, cannot contract with the Government any more?
No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I get to ask the
questions. You don't.
(Laughter.)
MS. FUENTES: Sorry. You are so correct on
that. I apologize.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but it's the
military -- look, it's the military that they are
mostly -- that they're relying on.
MS. FUENTES: Yes. And it -
JUSTICE BREYER: So they say -- I mean, the
famous statement -- I looked it up -- "Let the end be
legitimate, let it be within the scope of the
Constitution, and all means which are appropriate and
not forbidden are -- fall within the Necessary and
Proper Clause."
All right? The end is to protect the
communities from those individuals in respect to those
matters that they became dangerous with when they were
in the military; okay? That's the end.
And is the means appropriate? They say yes.
They say, after all, the means here is, notify them when
we're -- you're moving around. And therefore, is it
forbidden?
Well, we're not supposed to consider that
part, but -- so leave that out. But the -- the others,
they say is okay. So that's the basic.
Do you think maybe we should send this back
to the -- to the Fifth Circuit? The Government suggests
that -
MS. FUENTES: Well -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- because they didn't get
it right in respect to what the previous statutes
require.
What about all that?
MS. FUENTES: Well, the Fifth Circuit did
get it right with respect to the previous statute. And
the reason that the Government wants to send it back is
because they say that the Fifth Circuit relied on the
fact that Mr. Kebodeaux was unconditionally released.
And as a matter of fact, he was unconditionally
released. But they equate unconditional release with
release free from a registration requirement.
We have gone over that in great length in
our brief. The Government is simply wrong about that,
for the reasons that we state in our brief. And I can
go into those, if you want, if you'd like.
JUSTICE BREYER: I just want to know what to
do if I end up thinking they are right.
MS. FUENTES: Yes. They are -
JUSTICE BREYER: What's your recommendation
there on that assumption? I'm not saying I would, but
I'm just saying on that assumption.
MS. FUENTES: I -- I guess it depends on
which assumption. The Fifth Circuit would not have
changed its opinion in this case because Mr. Kebodeaux,
as a matter of fact, whether the Government agrees or
not, was not released on condition that he comply with
sex offender registration requirements.
You can see the difference between
Mr. Kebodeaux's release and the release of a person who
is released on conditions that he comply with
requirements, and that is in 35 -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Your argument is he was
released on condition of State registration. Isn't your
argument dependent only on that there was no Federal
registration requirement?
MS. FUENTES: No. It is dependent on
whether that release was conditioned on his
registration, and it wasn't. Today, when a person is
released from custody on supervised release, it is a
condition of that release under 3583 that he comply with
sex offender registration requirements. What happens if
he doesn't comply?
He can go back to prison on the original
conviction, because he was released on condition that he
comply with Federal sex offender requirements. It just
goes to -- to the judge. It's by preponderance of the
evidence.
That is not what happened here.
Mr. Kebodeaux was released, not on any conditions. Now,
the State may have imposed an independent obligation to
register, but that was not a condition of his release.
And so it is not the case, as a matter of fact, that he
was released on condition.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The bottom line is you
don't think the Wetterling Act applied to him. Is that
your point?
MS. FUENTES: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The Wetterling
Act didn't apply to him; is that -
MS. FUENTES: No. I don't think the
Wetterling Act applied to him.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: At all?
MS. FUENTES: Correct. But even if it did,
it was -- it's far removed from a registration
requirement. It is a penalty, not a registration
requirement.
The State imposed a registration
requirement. Wetterling did not.
And if you'd just read -- and I think that's
what the Fifth Circuit did. They just read the statute,
14072(i)(3) and (i)(4). It doesn't say a person who is
required to register will follow -- will suffer the
following punishment. It says a person described in
4042(d), a person who's been into a court-martial.
If you look at the rest of 14072 and parts
of 14071, there are provisions that say such and such
person shall register. That is a registration
requirement.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I -- I guess what I'm not
understanding, Ms. Fuentes, is -- I understand the
difference between a requirement of registration and a
penalty for failing to register, but it's a little bit
cutting -- slicing the baloney thin.
And if you think that he was in any event
while he was undergoing his sentence subject to a
penalty, it's a pretty minor exercise of Federal power,
isn't it, to say that, instead of making you just
subject to a penalty for doing something, we're going to
tell you, you have to do it?
MS. FUENTES: I guess I don't. And the
reason is it's not the degree of power exerted, it's
whether the power exists. And once Mr. Kebodeaux
completed his Federal sentence, the military power,
which permitted him to be prosecuted and punished, had
expired.
And so in some ways it's like there's
Federal enclave jurisdiction on this side of the street
where the base exists, where the Navy yard exists, and
things that happened here can be punished by the Federal
Government, but just across the street the exact same
things can occur and the Federal Government cannot
punish it.
So I think it is very careful to draw those
fine lines, and I think it is essential when discussing
issues of the enumerated powers, because they are
limited.
I don't mean to move on fast. I did want to
mention -- I know my time is almost up -- that we have
offered an alternative ground for deciding the
constitutional questions here: The effective date
argument. I know we didn't raise it in the Fifth
Circuit, but this Court has the authority to consider
it, and we have put into our brief all the reasons that
Mr. Kebodeaux is not covered by SORNA to begin with.
In the Sixth, Ninth and Third Circuits, he
could not be prosecuted under SORNA, and so that is an
alternative basis that I think the Court can decide this
case on.
And if there are no other questions, I will
cede the rest of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Dreeben, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
As I understand Respondent's argument,
Respondent concedes that he could have been put under a
lifetime requirement to register with State authorities
and punished federally if he did not, if only that
requirement had been imposed on him either at the time
of sentencing or in a parallel civil proceeding that
occurred while he was in the military.
This case, therefore, reduces to a question
of timing. The essential argument that Respondent is
making is that Congress had its -- had its authority
expire because it didn't exercise it. There's some sort
of notion that Congress must speak now or forever hold
its peace.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's not unusual.
When you're released from the military, for example,
you're no longer subject to -- to Congress's
jurisdiction over the military. That's a matter of
timing too, isn't it?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, that's just wrong,
Justice Scalia, because this Court made clear in United
States ex rel Toth v. Quarles that if an individual has
left the military but hasn't been prosecuted, they can't
be court-martialed, but they can be prosecuted in an
Article III clause.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not for something that
they've done after they left the military. That's a
question of timing. Had they left the military when
they committed this crime? If so, they can't be
prosecuted under -- under that power of the Federal
Government.
MR. DREEBEN: But sex offender registration
is a consequence of the military crime. That was
committed while they were in the military. It's a civil
remedy that may, consistent with other constitutional
provisions, be imposed retroactively.
And this case comes down not to whether any
member of the Court agrees with the Ex Post Facto
Doctrine analysis in Smith v. Doe or whether there might
be due process or other concerns out there, it comes
down to whether Congress has Article I authority to
say -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that's not
limited. You've limited it to sex offenses, but the --
Congress could say it's important to us that people who
serve in the military behave correctly even after
they're released. So it is a Federal offense to do
anything that violates State law for the rest of their
lives, and your argument would say, well, that's part of
their authority to regulate the military and so it's
okay.
MR. DREEBEN: Let me make two points about
that, Mr. Chief Justice. First of all, a standard
condition of Federal supervised release is that the
individual shall not violate any Federal, State or local
law, and for many sex offenders, supervised release runs
for life.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's part of his
sentence. That's part of the punishment imposed. You
assert that this is not part of the punishment imposed.
MR. DREEBEN: I don't see any relevance that
has to Article I authority; it has relevance to other
constitutional provisions.
So, insofar as supervised release does
contemplate this longstanding, continuous jurisdiction,
that's a feature of Federal law that the Court ought to
keep in mind in the way that it writes this opinion.
But second, if Congress passed such a law,
it's not that it has carte blanche to do that, it's just
that there's no per se rule that says it can't. The
Court would -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your answer to my
question is yes, Congress can do that. It can say
anyone in the military is subject for the rest of their
life to Federal jurisdiction. Whatever is a State law
crime is a Federal crime.
MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, I'm not
going to say no to that question, because I don't want
to foreclose options that Congress may decide it's
appropriate to pass, but the Court -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. Who knows what
they'll do, right?
MR. DREEBEN: But the Court does not have to
agree that that is constitutional -- may I complete my
sentence?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
MR. DREEBEN: -- in order to uphold this
narrowly focused, tailored law that looks at a specific
crime and imposes a specific requirement that's directly
tied to the nature of that crime.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:14 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
54:23 34:21 48:12 asks 25:20 45:24 46:9
alternative 50:12 24:10 asserted 18:25 baloney 49:11
35:22 37:16 38:15 assigned 14:9 43:18 44:20
6:6,13 15:14 April 1:9 Assistant 1:18 bars 4:2
19:10 20:25 areas 32:19 31:23 35:18 50:1
23:21 24:18 15:23,24 16:2 assuming 38:8 18:21,21 24:15
20:23,23 22:14 9:11 13:2 15:3 attenuation 21:6 18:25 42:6
40:16 27:20 29:7 authority 3:13,18 2:4,7,10 3:8
36:16 anti-recidivism 38:7 39:11 41:1 10:16 18:21 behave 52:24
54:12 anymore 16:21 53:2 25:24 34:12 believing 21:12
apologize 43:1 arises 32:13 52:19 53:3,15 41:15
appeal 26:8 Article 3:21,24 available 17:22 22:12 25:20
28:10,13 1:14 9:16 11:14 17:9 54:22 blurred 15:1
29:10 applicability 13:9 18:22 29:2,19 board 11:24,25
23:9 31:14 35:21 B 41:12
33:6
39:11,18
35:2 43:7 24:17 28:22,23 33:15,24 48:4,6 53:7
45:3,7 cause 33:16 29:8,16 35:15 commitment conditioned
caused 6:14 35:21,23 37:13 6:18 47:15
46:16,17 certain 31:1 42:8 51:10 52:12 10:19 27:15 28:6 37:2
certainly 4:11 civilian 33:21 committed 7:13 39:1 47:8 48:2
41:12 cetera 10:22 civilly 16:16 12:1,4,14 13:11 conducted 21:11
challenged 19:6 civil-criminal 22:18,23 23:11 confronted 14:12
6:12 9:11 12:25 15:21,24 19:10 community 13:14 14:8 17:1 21:3
19:16 23:6,20 34:1 21:8,9,14 24:8
25:16 54:5,14,19 15:6,20 20:2 comprehensive 54:1,7
7:2,24 36:23,24 41:25 closing 41:21 13:8,10 16:2,6 37:2,3 51:20
11:19 13:6 45:25 46:7,10 Code 27:14,17 16:14 17:13 connected 22:9
16:12,14 47:1 48:23 29:17 20:1,14,25 23:1 connection 34:23
23:20 50:15 cognizance 6:17 25:21 26:1,3 connects 40:10
30:14 Circuits 50:18 collateral 43:7 39:10 consequence
Circuit's 36:17 come 4:14 18:24 Comstock-type 18:15 43:7,19
36:22 citizens 22:17 37:23 24:18 52:11
40:24,24 civil 3:14,18,22 comes 11:10 concedes 51:6 consequences
47:2 4:4 5:8 6:17 7:3 23:5 52:15,18 concerned 41:18 16:15 29:9
50:21 7:8,15,18 8:12 coming 32:17 concerns 15:2 consider 45:21
52:15 8:15,16 9:5,24 commerce 14:15 52:18 50:15
10:8 11:18 12:4 19:1 23:20,25 concession 13:7 consideration
32:12,13 15:4 16:1,25 33:1,3 35:13,20 concludes 11:20 considerations
counseling 24:11 34:8,11 39:5,5 depends 9:12 Doe 15:10 18:15
28:3 4:3 5:11 6:1 43:21 Deputy 1:15 doing 13:18 26:4
22:19 23:2 14:20 15:9,13 cruel 10:20 description double 8:11
40:18 15:19 17:5,13 custody 6:14,20 22:21 18:12
17:23,24 18:18 6:23,24 13:12 deter 33:25 doubt 18:17
10:7,16 22:25 25:19,20 25:11 37:3,15 determined 12:4 Dreeben 1:15
17:10 26:4 28:5 50:15 47:17 difference 13:6 2:3,9 3:6,7,9
40:7 50:20 51:24 cutting 49:11 18:23 29:8 4:11,17 5:2,11
52:13 52:16 53:19,24 35:16,18 38:3,6 5:17,23 6:12
54:12 54:8,11 D 38:7 41:10 7:16,23 8:5,8
18:8 dangerous 13:12 different 5:21 6:5 10:18 12:10,15
49:2 date 39:13 50:13 15:23 21:17 13:24 15:8
10:20 52:2 37:19 37:9 17:21 18:4,7,11
crime 4:16 7:7,9 43:17 50:20 36:18,19 51:2,4,23 52:10
7:6 11:9 12:14 42:12 31:2 drew 16:5
9:12 17:5 20:11 23:12 decides 7:8 8:22 discussing 50:7 due 3:24 10:21
29:17 41:23 52:7,11 deciding 18:16 discussion 14:21 15:24 17:25
37:5 54:4,4,17,18 50:12 14:22 30:18 31:22
crimes 7:6,11 8:9 defendant 9:19 dishonorably 52:18
16:15 22:18,24 defined 41:20 dispute 7:25
47:22 criminal 3:14 4:5 degree 4:1 21:4 dissented 30:22 E
6:21 8:15 9:8,24 delivered 35:7 16:16 32:13,18 Earlier 21:18
45:1 14:13,23 15:4 depend 42:16 16:11 37:2,4
17:6 21:14,20 43:4 distinguish 34:15 effective 24:12
52:24 23:8 24:9 25:4 47:14 DNA 4:14 either 15:25 51:9
29:8,22 31:7 33:3 38:21 Doctrine 52:17 eliminated 17:19
exact 50:3 39:2 52:16 federally 51:8 28:1,12,15 29:3
34:15 40:19 41:8 25:2,7,8 36:17 38:17,20 39:14
execution 7:22 fast 50:10 finds 22:4 49:8,18
23:2 exercise 29:14 Federal 1:18 first 3:4 16:12 fulfilling 16:3
49:14 51:15 3:13,19,23 4:5 37:23 53:6 function 20:12
44:1,6,8 exercised 38:2 4:8,14 5:1,8 6:6 fit 21:2 23:9
50:8 exerted 32:5 6:14,20,23,23 focused 54:16 functions 23:8
exists 30:5 39:6 13:24,25 14:2,3 forbids 7:17 future 42:11
50:1 15:13 16:8,20 forces 9:21,22 G
33:13 20:9,11,15,17 23:12,13 44:2 gate 17:12
18:12,14 expired 25:23 22:18,23 23:8,8 foreclosed 15:6 general 1:15
39:7 49:23 23:15,24 24:3 forever 40:17 22:17
47:25 fact 9:12,19 18:7 32:4,15 34:9 foundation 18:15 21:16
8:16 32:14 46:11,12 37:18,20,25,25 44:20 25:1
14:24 47:3 48:5 38:3,23 40:3,4 free 46:14 girl 33:18
17:17 facto 3:23 4:4 5:4 43:13 47:12,23 frequently 26:4 give 11:18 29:6
18:2,14 5:5,9,18 8:16 49:14,21,25 Fuentes 1:18 2:6 38:25 42:3 43:6
30:17 14:24 15:1,5,21 50:2,4 52:8,25 25:15,16,18 given 14:17 28:8
51:25 17:18 18:1,3,14 53:7,8,19 54:3 26:11,18,25 32:2
19:23 30:17 54:4 27:3,7,13,23 gives 36:15
25:20 guess 27:19 impose 3:14 4:10 45:14 issue 5:22 13:22
28:5,7,21 37:10,17 46:25 7:2,3,14 9:16 individual's 17:19 21:25
32:1 49:7,18 15:25 17:4 25:4 16:17 issues 50:8
34:14 gun 7:14 26:9,17 27:9 inextricably
46:18 guy 12:13 28:5 29:15 32:3 30:11 J
36:8 37:2 39:12 information 11:9 jail 26:16 27:5
39:9 41:8 Halper 8:11 imposed 7:18 inherent 23:14 jeopardy 8:11
47:24 handful 23:4 8:18 10:9 12:7 initial 20:21 18:12
17:4 happened 33:14 28:19 40:2 48:3 41:12 47:24
20:14 33:17 48:1 50:2 48:20 51:9 insofar 53:17 judgment 29:18
26:6 happens 47:19 52:14 53:12,13 installation 10:6 jurisdiction 16:8
34:2,2 health 31:5 imposes 54:17 34:18 18:25 19:8
42:15 hear 3:3 25:25 imposing 8:25 installations 25:10 34:8,9,10
49:16 38:11 22:10 23:15 33:11 36:1 40:4 49:25
heavily 13:8 imposition 42:6 instance 19:7 51:21 53:18
11:7 13:16 hold 51:16 incarcerating 6:7 intended 15:15 7:16,20 8:3,6
16:9 holding 25:21 incarceration intent 15:18 24:2 8:18 9:4,6,11
24:4 25:20 Honor 6:15 9:6 13:3,5 inter 19:1 10:1,11,17 12:8
26:1,9,17 Hudson 18:13 including 23:1 interest 11:23 12:12,17,25
27:19,25 43:10,14 incorrect 36:18 20:1,6,10,15 13:5,17,20
32:22 36:6 hypothetical independent 21:17,24 37:25 14:21 15:8
5:16 4:18 42:6 43:22 interests 16:22 16:23,24 17:9
38:3 41:11 48:3 21:5 24:6 37:18 17:14,17 18:2,6
43:8,9,13 independently 37:21
44:21
46:9,16
50:3,4
29:7
32:5,8 35:19 invoking 43:5 29:18,25 30:6,9
36:5 37:10 lack 35:15 8:24 10:21,21 Madison 35:12 23:20 25:6
38:8,12 lacks 39:12 11:10 42:10 35:14 41:19 29:13,15,18,21
39:11,18 large 22:23 limited 8:9 36:20mail 35:7 30:1,4,25 31:2
40:5,13 23:11 50:9 52:22,22 main 16:11 31:4,8,16,17
41:16,17 Laughter 44:25 limiting 42:3,15 making 15:20 31:17,19 33:9
42:2,18 law 3:13,19,23 limits 4:18,21,22 33:10 35:25 33:11,14,22,24
43:3,25 5:21,23 7:1 15:25 19:17,17 40:19,25 41:5,7 34:18,23 35:6
45:3 8:10,14 9:8,17 42:9 49:15 51:14 36:1 38:4,5,5,9
46:3,19,22 10:25 11:2,3 line 14:23,24 mandate 24:10 38:13,19 39:13
48:7,11 12:20 13:25,25 15:1 16:25 mandated 10:25 39:22 40:14,21
49:7 18:12,14 20:17 18:18 48:7 marshals 14:5 41:2,2,3,15
51:4,18 22:4,4,10 23:3 lines 19:5 50:7 massive 16:17 42:21 44:2,8,20
52:4,21 23:3,15,25 linked 13:2,5 matter 1:11 45:4,4,16 49:21
54:5 24:14 27:7 little 23:2 49:10 46:12 47:3 48:5 51:11,19,21
28:25 31:4,9,21 lived 33:18 51:21 54:23 52:1,5,6,11,12
53:1,9,19 lives 53:2 mattered 25:9 52:24 53:3 54:2
37:10 lax 11:22 35:8 53:8 12:9 28:13 30:9 minor 49:14
49:7 leading 32:10,12 located 33:12 35:12,16 43:2 minutes 50:25
30:7 37:1 leaves 39:13 logistical 14:4 50:10 morning 3:4
39:8 41:22 long 17:24 19:2 means 4:21 5:24 move 50:10
47:2 48:2 left 52:1,5,6 20:20 24:17 19:5 21:8 45:10 moving 45:19
50:17 legal 30:13 longer 18:24 45:17,18 multiple 8:12
47:7 legislation 5:3 39:24 40:18 19:11 24:17 N
legislature's 53:18 men 31:1 narrowly 54:16
26:5 legitimate 10:15 23:22,23 29:11mention 50:11 42:10
7:12,13 Let's 29:11 looked 17:13 MICHAEL 1:15 21:2 44:19
17:2 24:8 level 12:19 45:8 2:3,9 3:7 51:2 54:18
29:6,10 life 8:2 10:23 looks 26:4 54:16 military 3:17 Navy 50:1
31:9 19:4 21:9 28:19 loose 31:18 10:3,5,6,19 near 10:5
33:13 53:10 54:3 lose 12:6 18:5 11:9,11,15,17 necessarily
42:4 lifetime 51:7 lost 3:18 21:14 11:20 12:2,2,5 36:11
50:11,14 light 11:10 lot 11:21 29:7 12:6,22,23 necessary 3:25
32:22 34:6 13:3,10 14:13 53:19 permission 27:25 39:2 52:16
21:7,8 24:2 outside 4:18 permit 41:4 potential 30:17
45:11 28:24 29:17,22 19:24 permits 27:7,14 potentially 10:23
32:7 39:6 52:25 permutations power 4:8 7:22
44:14 offenses 11:20 P 19:14 8:4,6,6,8 9:20
36:5,5 24:14 33:15,24 PAGE 2:2 11:11 20:16 13:16 19:12
office 35:5,6 26:10,13,13,24 39:6,13,23 28:18 29:2,11
40:7 okay 17:7 27:3 28:21 29:14 48:24 49:1,2,5 29:23 30:5,20
16:21 43:16 45:16,23 31:19 35:19 persons 17:4 32:8,9,25 33:1
21:12,13 30:10 43:12 place 9:9 39:5,12 40:3,11
41:3 49:20 19:15 24:2 41:1,3,9,9 42:6
42:17 48:3 41:9 passes 17:11 35:12 48:9 52:8
7:18 53:20 penalties 20:20 pose 3:11 6:21 14:25
10:14,18 opportunity penalty 17:6,7 13:15 precept 9:10
15:11,20 36:15 48:18 49:10,14 posited 5:8 precisely 9:3
24:1 opposition 33:16 49:16 position 4:21 precluding 8:12
25:5 33:17,21 people 4:15 6:20 37:8 predecessor
47:5,19 options 54:7 8:23 11:22 12:1 possible 14:17 24:24
52:10 oral 1:11 2:2,5 12:3 21:20 42:4 premised 23:25
6:8 13:22 order 3:15 7:9 24:13,15 33:15 post 3:23 4:4 5:3 12:13 18:16
12:21 33:20 34:1 37:8 41:2 5:5,9,18 8:16 47:24
53:9 54:15 41:12,14 52:23 14:24 15:1,5,21 prescribe 9:23
47:21 period 11:23 18:14 19:23 pretty 49:14
11:12 ought 14:17 39:24 30:17 35:5,6 prevent 7:9 8:7
23:21 24:18 punishing 8:9 R 1:15 2:3,9 3:1 register 11:1
21:22 24:5 20:3 24:9 25:4 react 9:7 registering 9:16
52:1,2,8 49:1 53:12,13 34:5 34:19
11:22 34:11 punitive 5:12,25 reading 35:14 10:3,9 15:11,20
29:22 purpose 10:8 20:22 31:14 29:16 35:11
41:17 45:13 22:5,6,7,8,9 28:5,6 32:21 49:5,9 52:10
13:11 19:25 20:10 put 19:20 26:15 49:19 10:2 22:16,20
31:3,8 22:22 23:10 50:16 51:6 reasonable 14:8 34:23 40:14
protection 4:1 18:17 34:22,22 44:1 53:3
35:3,8 22:6 30:18 32:6 Q regulated 21:3
39:3,4 protects 23:8,9 qualify 29:4 reasoning 14:11 regulating 22:21
35:23 33:25 51:25 reasons 46:17 regulation 21:6
provision 6:12 5:25 7:19 9:20 REBUTTAL 2:8 33:9
18:16 30:21 40:2 20:21,23 24:14 receiving 41:15 regulatory 7:3
51:10 provisions 4:1 26:7 28:4,14 recidivism 11:4 24:3
15:24 15:12,13 49:4 37:24,25 39:17 recidivist 5:1 24:11
30:18 52:14 53:16 40:10,16 51:12 19:25 rel 11:13 51:25
52:18 public 1:18 3:12 52:6 54:1,6 recidivists 4:16 related 4:9 30:11
11:4 13:15 41:13 19:15 relationship 6:15
18:17 punish 8:7 24:15 quite 8:24 18:11 reduces 51:12 22:8,11 26:14
17:12 punished 43:11 32:25 37:11 reference 15:5 27:15 28:3,20
37:3,16 47:9,19,23 6:4 9:11 12:25 53:11 54:9 sex 3:11 4:2,9
38:10 requires 18:16 13:17,20 18:20 scenario 41:13 5:24 6:7,17,25
34:17,18 19:3 21:16 scope 45:9 7:11 8:1,23 9:7
47:7,7 reserve 25:12 25:13 42:18,25 se 3:17,20 4:2 9:22 10:14,18
resources 14:5 43:3,25 44:5,12 7:17 16:4 17:8 10:19 11:1,8,12
53:7,9,17 respect 3:22 44:23 50:24 36:17 37:6,7 11:20,25 12:5
25:11 39:7 42:20 54:14,19 second 16:15 14:5,10,13
46:11,13 45:14 46:4,8 room 14:25 53:21 15:11,19 16:9
Respondent 1:20 rule 3:17,20 4:2 Section 25:3 16:21 17:2,5
48:2,6 2:7 3:17 17:23 7:17 16:5 33:5 27:14,17 23:25 24:2,9,10
52:25 25:5,17 51:6,13 36:17 37:6,7 see 22:19,20 25:5 28:24
51:5 53:23 44:6,16 47:6 47:5,19,23
14:9 29:13,15 33:9 send 45:24 46:9 sexually 13:12
42:5 restriction 35:18 running 16:2 21:14 25:23 shows 11:11
45:5 rests 6:13 runs 53:9 26:10,13,14 side 49:25
retroactively 4:24 13:15 54:13 simply 17:18,19
9:23 retroactivity sanction 3:14,19 20:5 39:18 simultaneously
returned 25:24 sanctions 7:4 27:9,14,17 situation 6:5
46:5 9:2 11:19 13:19 saying 19:24 serious 3:11 7:25 small 12:23
10:4 17:1 28:12,15 30:14 says 11:24 31:4 52:24 Solicitor 1:15
26:10 30:24 31:24 49:1 53:23 served 10:8 13:7 16:5
29:16 33:3 35:7 38:21 Scalia 7:5,16,20 39:15 somebody 7:25
47:13 39:20 45:13 8:3,6,18 9:4,6 service 21:13 16:16 19:4
46:4,8,20 54:9 12:12,17 16:24 serving 38:14 23:15,24
51:7,9 54:10 17:9,14,17 18:2 sets 11:24 somewhat 15:1
rights 17:10 18:6,9 22:13 settled 5:21,23 SORNA 12:24
37:4 47:5 ROBERTS 3:3 51:18,24 52:4 severe 17:3 24:22 26:21,23
50:17,19 States 1:1,3,12 30:8 37:15,19 think 7:23 10:11 trace 10:9
11:13 13:17 39:7,12,23 16:5 21:19 25:7 travel 14:14
39:16 25:21 27:13,17 support 14:3 27:7 29:3 30:3 travels 24:1
45:1 51:25 suppose 11:7,19 30:4,11,19,25 tremendous 14:4
status 39:25 16:25 30:25 32:20,21,22 33:16
51:15 6:24 11:10 supposed 45:21 35:4,4,4,4,14 tried 10:19 11:14
46:8 48:23 40:12,15 42:19 40:21 42:9,12 trying 30:21,24
16:23 statutes 26:19 54:14 42:14 43:13,16 44:5
20:7,8,13 28:7 38:23,24 surprised 25:25 44:3,18,18 turn 15:2 44:19
26:6 38:25 46:4 45:24 48:8,13 turned 31:18
27:1,4 statutorily 29:1 T 48:22 49:12 turns 9:18
statutory 25:8 T 2:1,1 50:6,7,20 two 14:12 16:11
42:2 27:12 28:17 tailored 54:16 thinking 25:9 21:17 35:17
48:7,11 38:22 take 6:16 20:3 30:12 46:20 36:9 53:5
step 12:23,24 23:20 30:19 Third 50:18 type 7:9
8:24 tell 31:4,11,19 tied 9:24 11:2 46:11,12
subsequent 44:7 test 4:14 12:18 19:4 20:4 25:6 underlying 10:16
13:21 14:2 suddenly 32:13 Thank 25:13 50:11,23 51:9 27:20 28:4
16:7 35:19 50:24 51:4 times 23:1 37:11 39:16
suffer 48:25 54:19 timing 51:13,22 40:5,6 44:4
21:4 25:24 sufficient 20:9 theory 5:10 52:6 49:8 51:5
32:9,16 suggests 45:25 thin 49:11 Title 25:3 understanding
46:17 suite 22:10 thing 30:11,12 today 4:21 19:24 42:24 49:8
48:3,20 supervised 8:1 30:12 33:2,23 26:19,21,23 understood
53:1,8 10:23,24 20:11 38:16 27:2 47:16 41:15
22:8,11 26:16 things 22:7 31:15 told 13:2 undisputed 11:6
28:3,20 30:1,4 41:21 50:2,4 51:25 unfortunately
31:18 33:10 24:23 25:2,7,9 51/49 12:14
40:20 50:10 54:6 51:23
6:1 8:10 41:17
14:7 wants 43:17 46:9 X
25:21 Washington 1:8 x 1:2,7
51:24 1:16
28:2 38:8 42:2
38:24 41:9,25 11:14 54:22
25:3
14:7 10:24 48:24
18:13,13 went 6:2 15:13
25:21 20:25 23:18 33:18
52:17 weren't 21:21,22 17 1:9
23:15 40:23 3 2:4
17:25,25 women 31:1 3553 28:8 38:24
53:1 word 43:20 3583 27:14,14,17
11:15 works 26:21 28:2 47:18
24:5,5 world 38:6,7
worried 32:11,18 4
21:9 29:3 wrong 3:20 5:21 51 2:10
