IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
DAN'S CITY USED CARS, INC., :
DBA DAN'S CITY AUTO BODY, :
Petitioner : No. 12-52
v. :
ROBERT PELKEY :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 20, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:11 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ANDRE D. BOUFFARD, ESQ., Burlington, Vermont; on behalf
of Petitioner.
BRIAN C. SHAUGHNESSY, ESQ., Manchester, New Hampshire;
on behalf of Respondent.
LEWIS S. YELIN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ANDRE D. BOUFFARD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
BRIAN C. SHAUGHNESSY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
LEWIS S. YELIN, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Respondent 39
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ANDRE D. BOUFFARD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 49
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:11 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will have
argument next in Case 12-52, Dan's City Used
Cars v. Pelkey.
Mr. Bouffard?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDRE D. BOUFFARD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BOUFFARD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The issue in this case is whether Section
14501 of the United States Transportation Code expressly
preempts the Respondent's State law consumer protection
in tort claims for damages against a tow trucker who
towed his vehicle lawfully and then, several months
later, disposed of the vehicle after the fees for towing
and storage had not been paid.
Both of these claims are preempted because
they are directed at the conduct -- the type of conduct
that tow truck companies all over this country every day
engage in, in dealing with a particular type of tow
that's referred to in the business as nonconsensual
tows.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Bouffard, this law,
this New Hampshire law, it regulates storage. Is this a
law that applies only to the towing companies who tow
the automobile and then store it, or does the law apply,
say, to a garage, say, someone brings a car to a garage
for repairs, and does this storage law regulate garage
operations as well as towing operations?
MR. BOUFFARD: Justice Ginsburg, this law
regulates abandoned motor vehicles. It's an abandoned
motor vehicle law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So -- so it would apply
to a garage operator.
MR. BOUFFARD: Well, if a garage operator
came into possession of an abandoned motor vehicle, then
I suppose it would. If -- if you look at the -- at the
title to this subchapter of this New Hampshire statute,
the title is abandoned vehicles, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but what made it
abandoned was that they tried to locate the owner,
couldn't and so -- this same thing could happen with a
garage owner as happened to the towing truck. So
there's nothing peculiar about being in the towing
business that makes this storage application -- storage
statute apply.
MR. BOUFFARD: Well, let me be clear about
this statute, Your Honor. It's an abandoned vehicle
statute, and what's really important to understand with
this case is that none of the Plaintiff's claims rely on
this abandoned vehicle statute.
The Plaintiff has pled in his complaint a
couple of allegations of violations of this abandoned
vehicle law, but the substantive rights that were sued
upon by the Plaintiff in this case do not live in the
abandoned motor vehicle law.
The substantive rights that were sued upon
by the Plaintiff live in the State's consumer protection
law, which is a separate New Hampshire statute,
unrelated to the abandoned vehicle law. And secondly,
the claim that the -- the common law negligence claim in
this case arises out of the common law of New Hampshire.
It doesn't arise out of the abandoned motor vehicle law.
One of the sources of confusion, I would
submit, in the New Hampshire Supreme Court's decision is
that it did not adequately deal with the -- the role of
the abandoned vehicle law in this case. The abandoned
vehicle law actually plays a relatively minor role as it
relates to the causes of action that were pled in this
case and the causes of action that the preemption
defense is directed to in this case.
JUSTICE BREYER: What's -- what's your
point? If it's not part of the towing law, then it's
further removed.
MR. BOUFFARD: The reason -- the reason why
these claims are preempted, Your Honor, is because they
all stem from the towing of the vehicle, which was
followed by the storage of the vehicle.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, I guess you could
have thousands of claims across the country, millions of
claims where there are all kinds of towing laws.
And -- you know, it says in Cambridge, Massachusetts
park your car here during a snow emergency, it will be
towed. Probably every northeastern country has laws
like that. I guess there could be millions of
negligence claims when the thing is towed, the guy broke
a headlight.
MR. BOUFFARD: Well, I think that's a
different -
JUSTICE BREYER: And are all those things
preempted? I would be amazed.
MR. BOUFFARD: I don't think so, Your Honor.
We're not -
JUSTICE BREYER: Then what's the difference
between this and -- and what could arise any day of the
week? I mean, as I read your brief, I -- are you saying
that all the northeast statutes that say your car will
be towed if you park here during a snow emergency, what
happens? I mean, do they have to go to the Department
of Transportation? Boston couldn't function. I know
that they do tow cars. I don't know that firsthand, but
I've seen it.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: So how's it supposed to
work?
MR. BOUFFARD: There's no -- there's no
claim in this case, Your Honor, that the abandoned motor
vehicle law is preempted, that New Hampshire's abandoned
motor vehicle law -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, all right, there
isn't in this case, but I'm curious to know how it works
because it seemed to me from what you're arguing, all
the abandoned motor vehicle laws and all the snow
emergency towing and everything else that I see every
day would be preempted a fortiori. So you tell me how
it all works.
MR. BOUFFARD: We are arguing that the
causes of action that were pled in this case, which are
a Consumer Protection Act claim for damages and
attorneys' fees -- treble damages actually in the
Consumer Protection Act claim. That claim is predicated
on the consumer protection law. It's predicated on the
State of New Hampshire's policy protecting consumers.
Now, there's -- there's an allegation in the
complaint that there was also -- there happened to be a
violation of this abandoned vehicle law. But that is a
completely meaningless allegation as it relates to the
Consumer Protection Act because even if it were a
violation of the abandoned vehicle law, that would not
make it a violation of the consumer protection law.
Consumer protection laws are intended to regulate
fairness in business practices. That's what that
statute is about.
JUSTICE SCALIA: My question is -- is the
same as Justice Breyer's. It seems to me you are
running in the wrong direction. To the extent you say
the case doesn't involve New Hampshire's towing law but
involves just its general consumer protection law,
it's -- it's even further distant from being preempted.
I -
MR. BOUFFARD: Well, there's a difference,
Your Honor, Justice Scalia, between whether the case is
predicated on the New Hampshire towing law and whether
or not these causes of action are related to the towing
of the vehicle. Our point, and our primary argument, is
that all of these claims are related to, within the
meaning of this statute, to the towing of the vehicle.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose -- I understand.
My goodness. Suppose a vehicle -- I pay for somebody to
tow -- I agree that somebody will tow my vehicle and I
will pay them $100. And he tows the vehicle, puts it in
my garage and says, give me the $100. And I say, ha,
ha, I'm not going to give you $100.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, do you think that that
general obligation under State law to pay a debt that
you've contracted to pay is eliminated?
MR. BOUFFARD: That's a very different set
of circumstances, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is that different from
normal consumer protection law? I -- I don't see that
it's so much different.
MR. BOUFFARD: Well, this -- this case
involves a nonconsensual tow. This case involves a
situation where there was an opportunity, a fair
opportunity, to pay for the towing and the storage
charges that had been incurred, and -
JUSTICE ALITO: What difference does that
make? Suppose there was a towing company that lawfully
towed cars, but its practice was to hold the car for
24 hours and if it wasn't picked up they would
immediately sell it for parts.
Your argument would be that's preempted by
the Federal statute?
MR. BOUFFARD: No, we wouldn't -
JUSTICE ALITO: The State can't regulate
that?
MR. BOUFFARD: I -- I think the State could
regulate that, Your Honor. What the State -- what
the -- what a private plaintiff can't do in a case like
this is assert claims like common law negligence
claims -
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. A private
plaintiff could not assert a common law negligence claim
if that were done?
MR. BOUFFARD: A -
JUSTICE ALITO: Lawfully towed, sold for
parts within 24 hours because it wasn't picked up.
MR. BOUFFARD: I think -- I think a private
plaintiff could -- could probably assert that, that
negligence claim.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if that's -- if that
is not related to payment for services, then why is this
-- why is there such a relationship here?
MR. BOUFFARD: That situation doesn't
involve a payment dispute, Your Honor. This case -- the
case we have before us today, involves a payment
dispute. This is really a payment dispute. A person -
JUSTICE ALITO: It would involve a payment
dispute to the same extent as this. Towed, notice sent
out immediately, wasn't picked up within 24 hours, sell
it for parts.
MR. BOUFFARD: Well, that -- that's not a
payment dispute. The parties haven't -- haven't
disputed whether or not there -- there is a payment
obligation. The part -- this -- this case is about a
dispute over whether there is even an obligation to pay
for the -- the towing and the storage services. That's
what this case is about. This -- this plaintiff had an
opportunity to pay for and to discharge his obligation
under State law. I -- I feel the need to -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When? When did that
opportunity come up? Because I thought that the notice
didn't get to the -- to the plaintiff, and then when the
lawyer said, I have a client, it's his car, then the
towing company went ahead and put it up for auction.
And then no bidders, so they sold it, pocketed the
money, gave nothing to the car owner. So I don't
understand how it's a dispute about payment. This is
not a case where the car owner said I won't pay for the
towing.
MR. BOUFFARD: Well, Justice Ginsburg, we
don't agree with that. It is -- it is exactly that kind
of case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: At what point did Pelkey
say, I won't pay for the towing?
MR. BOUFFARD: There -- there's a letter in
the record of the New Hampshire Supreme Court, Your
Honor, it's -- I believe it's at page 86 and 87 of the
record in the New Hampshire Supreme Court, which is a
letter from Mr. Shaughnessy, counsel for Mr. Pelkey, to
my client. And this letter was written something in the
range of 3 months after the towing took place, and -
and before the vehicle had been disposed of.
And the letter asserts that Mr. Pelkey
doesn't believe he should have to pay for any storage
fees. He would -- he would pay the towing fees, but he
doesn't believe he should have to pay for any of the
storage fees. And that's -- that's -- that's really
reflective of what this case is really all about. It's
about a dispute over payment.
And the reason why this case is so
significant -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Not payment over towing,
payment over storage.
MR. BOUFFARD: He -- he offered in this
letter to pay the towing fees only. There was never any
tender of payment. There was an offer to pay, provided
that -- provided that my client would tow the vehicle
back to his place of residence because the vehicle
wasn't operative at the time.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If this was a consensual
contract, he asked -- Justice Scalia's question. They
contracted for the tow. What State laws would be
preempted under the FAAAA with respect to that private
contract? Would there be any?
MR. BOUFFARD: The -- any breach of contract
claim that might arise on behalf of the plaintiff would
not be preempted. That's what the Court decided in the
Wolens decision.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How about, do consumer
fraud laws apply to that contract between the parties?
MR. BOUFFARD: The consumer fraud law
might -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the basis of his
claim here.
MR. BOUFFARD: It might apply as a matter of
State law, but it would be preempted.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Ah, so you're arguing
that those laws would be preempted.
MR. BOUFFARD: It would be preempted to the
extent that it's a -- the case involves a dispute over
payment for the services. This is a -- this case is
a -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That gets back to
whether the services include storage, which is what the
New Hampshire court said it doesn't.
MR. BOUFFARD: The New Hampshire -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That the movement of
property or towing doesn't include services for storage.
MR. BOUFFARD: That's what the New Hampshire
Supreme Court said, relying on the minority view that's
come out of the Ninth Circuit in the Charas decision.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why don't you answer
that question? As I read the list of things that are
preempted, they have to do with storage during
transportation. Why should we read it more broadly than
that?
MR. BOUFFARD: I think -- Justice Sotomayor,
I think you are referring to the argument that's been
made by my friends with regard to the final phrase in
the statute with respect to transportation -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly.
MR. BOUFFARD: And the short answer to that
question is that the term "transportation" is a defined
term in Title 49, and it's defined very broadly for -
for good reason because that term is used throughout
Title 49. In fact, the term is used to define the scope
of jurisdiction of the Department of Transportation, and
the definition of transportation is quite broad, and -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It -- it includes storage,
is the point you are coming to, right?
MR. BOUFFARD: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The definition includes
storage. You think it means -- it means storage at the
end of the transportation? Suppose you're -- you're a
company that moves goods, but we also store goods. You
can -- you know, rent -- rent space and we will store
your furniture for years. If that company picks up some
goods, brings it to its warehouse and leaves it in its
warehouse for 3 years, that storage is covered by
this -- by this statute, you think?
See, I thought the storage was -- was
storage in the course of the transportation. Sometimes
when you're -- you know, changing the mode of
transportation, going from trucks to ships or something,
you have to store it temporarily during -- during the
course of the transportation. That's how I would read
it. But you're saying, even if you're a storage
company, if you pick up goods and bring it to the place
where you store it, that's covered by -- by this
statute.
MR. BOUFFARD: No, that's not what I'm
saying, Your Honor. I'm saying that if you tow a motor
vehicle, you bring the motor vehicle into your
possession via towing and, as is the case here, you also
store the vehicle. And in particular in a case like
this, where the claimant was seeking to have the vehicle
returned to his place of business -- to his place of
residence, those are the facts of this case.
This wasn't necessarily the end of the
transportation. The plaintiff here, the Respondent, was
asking for further transportation services at the end of
the day. So on the facts of this case, the
transportation hadn't ended. But even if -- we do have
a situation where there would have been no further
transportation.
The -- the reading that my friends have
advocated inserts the word "incidental" to -- to
transportation in the statute that doesn't appear in the
statute.
The definition of "transportation" doesn't
include the word -- doesn't say "storage incidental to
the movement of property."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's say you park
your tow trucks on somebody else's parking lot, and you
don't pay the rent. So they sell your tow truck. Is
your claim against your landlord preempted?
MR. BOUFFARD: I don't think so, Your Honor,
because I don't think that that scenario would fall
within what Congress intended by the term "services"
there. That -- that claim -- that claim that -- that
you've described, Mr. Chief Justice, is a claim that
would really be a -- a breach of contract claim between
the tow truck owners and his landlord. That would be
a -- a contract dispute. It wouldn't -- wouldn't relate
to the transportation services of the -- of the tow
truck company in a way that is picked up by this
preemption statute.
It relates to it in a very tangential way,
in a very remote way, I suppose, but not -- not in a way
that's close enough -- not in a way that -- that relates
to the business of a tow truck company in the way that
payment disputes over -- over the services relate to the
business of the tow truck company.
There are any number of different types of
disputes that motor carriers, like tow truck companies,
could get involved in that wouldn't be preempted here.
Motor carriers are involved in lots of different types
of business activity that doesn't involve the delivery
of their services. They could be involved in a real
estate transaction, for example.
They may be buying a new -- a new depot, and
there may be claims that arise out of disputes in
connection with that real estate transaction. Those
claims aren't preempted by this statute, even though in
a very remote sense, they -- those -- those disputes
might be related to the business of -- of the motor
carrier. It's very remote, unlike a situation where the
claim arises out of the actual delivery of the
transportation services.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How does -- so if
your tow truck is involved in an accident, is that -
and a suit is filed for negligence. Is that preempted?
MR. BOUFFARD: I don't think that's
preempted, Your Honor. I -- I -- and the reason I say
that is because there's a whole line of Court of
Appeals' decisions in the airline area that deal with
negligence claims arising out of the negligent operation
of the aircraft. And your scenario is the negligent
operation of a tow truck as opposed to an aircraft.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm just looking at
the statutory language. It says -- you know, "related
to a service of a motor carrier with respect to the
transportation of property," and you know, your motor -
your truck is involved in transporting property. That's
the claim against you, that you don't -- you don't
render good service because you're negligent in a -- and
it just seems to me to fit within the terms of the
statute, if you adopt as broad a reading as you adopt.
MR. BOUFFARD: Well, literally, I think
you're -- you're right, Your Honor, that -- that the
scenario you describe could fall within the literal
language of the statute, but the Court has said that we
can't go -- we can't necessarily go to the literal end
of the earth in the reading of the statute, and we have
to -- we have to limit this in some fashion. And the
limitation that the Court has fashioned -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, let me tell you how
we -- it seems to me we've limited it in -- in the
Columbus case, Columbus v. Harrah's Garage and Wrecker
Services, Inc. We said that, "The clause -- the
clause's limitation to motor carrier services with
respect to the transportation of property massively
limits the scope of preemption to include only laws,
regulations, and other provisions that single out for
special treatment motor carriers of property."
And here you've told us that this case
doesn't involve any law that singles them out for -- for
special treatment. To the contrary, it's the general
consumer protection law.
MR. BOUFFARD: Well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you want us to eat those
words, they were wrong, or -- or somehow you don't come
within them?
MR. BOUFFARD: Respectfully, Justice Scalia,
I think those words came from your dissent in that case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ah.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I forgot that.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you say they were wrong,
you say?
(Laughter.)
MR. BOUFFARD: No, no. No, I don't say that
they were wrong, Justice Scalia. What I -- what I would
though -- do though is I would point the Court to the
language of the statute, and not only the -- not only
the specific statute involved here, the motor carrier
statute, but there's a -- there's a twin statute that
applies to air carriers. And it also applies to hybrid
air and -- and motor carriers.
And I apologize, I haven't sent up a text of
this statute in our appendix or anything, but it's -
it's Section 41713 of Title 49, and -- and it includes
very similar, general -- broad, general, preemptive
language. And it does not -- neither of those -- those
provisions in 41713 contains limiting language that -
that -- that would limit the scope of preemption in any
way.
The -- the -- and we know from the -- the
legislative intent with regard to the statute involved
in this case directly that Congress intended that the
scope of preemption for all of these different kinds of
industries would be coextensive. That's what Congress
was trying to achieve with this statute, was to give
motor carriers the same breadth of protection through
preemption that air carriers enjoy and that hybrid air
and motor carriers enjoy.
And so if there are no -- if there are no
limitations with regard to air carriers and -- and
hybrid air motor carriers of -- of the type that are
suggested by my friends for motor carriers, then -- then
that language at the end of 14501 can't be interpreted
in a -- in a strictly limiting fashion.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, there's a lot of
language in the majority pretty much along the line that
Justice Scalia said. And I might mention that point. I
mean, Justice Ginsburg wrote the majority, and she said
the reference to regulatory authority of a State, which
is a different reference, I agree, should be read to
preserve, not preempt traditional prerogative for the
State.
And Justice White said previously that you
have to start with the idea that this is -- historic
police powers of the State are not going to be
superseded by the Act, unless it's a clear manifest
purpose of Congress.
So I guess the problem is, with a lot of the
other things, that you yourself are in an area that is a
traditional matter of State regulation. It is, in fact,
regulated in a way that applies to everybody. It is
indirectly related to the transport itself, and that it
takes place on -- about storage that took place after
the event. So you have all that working against you.
Now, the Columbus case does offer some hope
for the other side, I would think. But what do you
think?
MR. BOUFFARD: Well, Justice Breyer, let me
just say, first of all, that -- that consumer protection
is -- is -- I'm not sure I would concede that consumer
protection is -- is an area of traditional State
regulation. In fact, the New Hampshire consumer
protection law dates to 1970, and the Federal government
has largely occupied the field of motor carrier
transportation since 1935 with the enactment of the
Motor Vehicle Act in that year. So -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's your problem,
which is, what is it directed to? And that's the real
issue in this case. Yes, it's preempted with respect to
any towing activity. The issue is, is it -- is it
preempted, as the New Hampshire court, said to storage
and sale?
MR. BOUFFARD: That is what the
New Hampshire Supreme Court said, Justice Sotomayor. I
would submit that -- that that's an artificial
distinction that fails to take into account the broad
definition of "transportation" in Federal law.
If the Court has no -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But why should the tow
operation be treated any different from the garage when
they're doing the identical thing, that is, storing and
then selling the vehicle?
MR. BOUFFARD: Well, if a -- if a person has
brought their vehicle into a garage, Justice Ginsburg,
there's been no transportation by a motor carrier. The
difference is that in this case this whole scenario
started out with a transportation by a -- by a motor
carrier which also, once it had possession of the
vehicle, stored it.
And so in a garage scenario, I suppose if a
tower towed the vehicle to a garage and then left it,
left it at a garage to be worked on, that -- that garage
owner wouldn't be in a position to say that I can assert
a preemption defense because that garage owner has
never -- has never engaged in the kind of transportation
activity that triggers this preemption law.
I hope that answers the question. May I
reserve?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. Thank you,
counsel.
Mr. Shaughnessy?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BRIAN C. SHAUGHNESSY
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
Transferring title and disposing of
Mr. Pelkey's car against his will and not compensating
him for the loss of his personal property is not a
service of a motor carrier with respect to
transportation of property. The regulation of
State-created property interests is a field of
traditional State regulation, and the broad sweep
advocated by Dan's City Used Auto in this case would
create a regulatory vacuum because there are no Federal
laws that allow the sale of a motor vehicle.
Now, let me address some of the things that
my brother has argued that this case is about that we
disagree about. My brother has argued that this case is
about payment. This case is not about payment. Mr.
Pelkey is not challenging that Dan's City Used Car had
the ability to tow the vehicle. We are not challenging
how it was towed. We are not challenging the price of
the tow. None of that is being challenged, and those
are all the services of a motor carrier.
Let me also -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about the price of the
storage? Are you challenging that?
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: We are not challenging the
price of the storage. There was a reference to a letter
that I had sent to the Dan's City people several
months -- but there were two letters. The first letter
was actually quite close to, within several weeks of the
auction, where we said, no, we are looking to pay for
it.
The other letter was, I think in June, was
saying, you need to account for these proceeds. You
sold the vehicle at auction and there is equity in this
property, you need to account for these proceeds.
So we didn't challenge the storage, but that
brings up the issue raised by Justice Sotomayor with
respect to the storage. And I would disagree with the
characterization of my brother with respect to what RSA
262 is. RSA 262 talks about removed vehicles. It
actually provides the authority to law enforcement to
remove a vehicle that might be in a public way, but it
also gives the authority to a private landowner to have
a car removed that's on their private property. It does
not relate to the motor carrier services of a tow truck
operator.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it seems to me
that you can't ignore the fact that part of what tow
trucks do is store things. I mean, it's a necessary and
integral part of the motor service, the transportation
of property, that they do. And regulation of the
storage will affect the services that they provide.
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: Well, we would say -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not just
like -- it's not just like storing anything else.
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: Well, respectfully,
Mr. Chief Justice, we would say that storage is a
separate service altogether. And the act of
transportation -- and this is another place where I
would disagree with the characterization by my brother
with respect to the definition of "transportation." I
believe the definition of "transportation" specifically
refers to a "motor carrier," meaning a person providing
motor vehicle transportation for compensation, but also
relates to the movement of the passengers and the
property, and the services related to that movement.
So the very definition that applies to this
case and to the transportation services relate to the
movement of the property.
Here the movement has stopped. And the
storage that we are dealing with in this case is
precisely the storage that is in RSA 262, which is the
storage charges, not for the movement of the property.
So I would clarify, Mr. Chief Justice, that it is our
position that the transportation, with respect to the
transportation of property which Justice Scalia has
aptly pointed out, severely limits the scope of this
preemption statute.
The services of the motor carrier terminated
once the hook was off the tow truck. That is when it
stopped.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Suppose, Mr. Shaughnessy,
that the New Hampshire laws were more onerous than they
are. Suppose they said to a towing company, once you've
towed this car you have to hold on to it forever. Or
suppose they said to the towing company, you have to
hire private investigators to go figure out who owns
this car. Would any of those be preempted?
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: Yes. I believe it's
pointed out in the Rowe decision, in order for it to be
related to the motor carrier service you have to either
directly regulate that service or it has an indirect
connection with the service that significantly affects
the service.
In your example, it would be a direct
regulation. You're actually requiring a motor carrier
to actually provide a service that the marketplace
itself wouldn't provide or that the motor carrier would
not otherwise provide. So that is a direct regulation
or an example of directly regulating that would be
preempted under this statute. But what we are dealing
with here, the storage afterward, is not that motor
carrier service. And I do believe the language at the
end with respect to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do we draw the line,
that line that you just asked us to draw between direct
and indirect? How do we articulate that line?
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: The direct -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because now you're -
now you're articulating a different line. You are
saying this -- the hypothetical that Justice Kagan
posited is not storage-related, it is something
else-related. It's towing-related. What's the
difference?
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: Correct. The way I -- the
way I interpreted the hypothetical is the State is then
saying in order as a precondition to or as part of the
motor carrier service of transporting or towing that
vehicle, you also must provide this other service over
here, which is actually one of the problems with the
Rowe case and under the Maine State statute. Under
Maine State law what they were requiring the motor
carrier to do in Rowe was actually to provide the
verification service. And so that was a direct
regulation I believe that this Court found under Rowe.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You've just told us
anything that significantly affects the transportation
service is covered. And I think what your brother's
argument is, is that this significantly affects the
service, whether he can collect for the storage
after -- you know, after the -- after towing it by -- by
selling it, and by selling it on terms that are not so
onerous as to impinge upon his -- his ability to run the
business.
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: Well, it may impinge upon
his ability or impinge upon how much he can collect. It
may impinge upon those things, Your Honor. But it
doesn't affect the service of the motor carrier with
respect to the transportation of the property because
that's the movement of the property.
Certainly getting paid is an important part
of the service that anybody provides, but that is
getting too attenuated, that's getting too far out.
That's getting towards -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it isn't
too -- I mean, this is a provision of course in the
Federal Aviation Administration Act. Whatever rule we
adopt is going to apply to air transportation as well.
And is your position, for example, that
things related to a hangar at an airport, that those are
not covered by this at all? It seems to me that there
the connection between the transportation and the
storage, the storage of the airplane, you can see a
little bit more clearly how that would affect what the
airplane -- you know, can do. A lien -- you can't take
the airplane out of the hangar because you didn't pay
the rent or whatever.
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: There is an effect there,
and I do believe that this Court started drawing that
line actually in the Travelers case. And when the
Travelers case looked at this "related to," that's
what's causing the problem, "related to" and what does
"related to" mean? And as has been pointed out, if you
actually use "related to" to its extreme, everything is
related to everything else. That has been said several
times in the case law.
But "related to" in Travelers, I believe in
that case the Court looked at -- there was attention to
that type of broad sweep of "related to" and the
presumption against preemption, which says we're not
going to preempt, but "related to" seems we are
preempting everything. So there was a tension.
So in Travelers we went to, well, we have to
take a look at what the manifest intent of Congress was
for the regulatory scheme. You have to look at the
intent of Congress, and certainly the best place to look
for that intent was first in the words that are used.
But once we are looking at the intent, we
have to say does the actual thing that is being
regulated by the State, and they are putting in their
own policies by direct regulation by a positive
enactment, does it affect or significantly affect the
deregulatory purposes. And I believe that's the line
that was adopted in Rowe.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, don't lose
that. I will ask you this question to, which favors you
in a sense but I want the answer really from the
Solicitor General who may know. But I'm going to ask it
to you too because you've probably both thought about
it. He may have -- they may have some experience on it.
If you start talking about significant
effect, without those last words, "deregulatory purpose"
I suddenly worry about the following, that every city in
the United States depends upon towing to regulate
parking within the city. We couldn't function without
it, although none of us like it. We know that it's
necessary. And certainly a law that provides for towing
does directly regulate the service of the tow truck. It
says do it. And then it tells you when not to do it.
So what's the -- what happens? Is every
traffic law in the United States involving towing
suddenly preempted? I can't believe that. How does
this work? So there is much more significance in this
case than the words we write, perhaps, than in the
particular case.
And now, do you want to, in light of what my
concern is, add anything to what you say. And you may
not, the Solicitor General might, but I'd like to hear
anything you have to say about that.
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: Well, believe -- I believe
with respect to RSA 262, which is the statute that is in
this case, it doesn't require a tow truck company to do
anything.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, you -- you can just
rest on that, but I'm going to have -- or somebody's
going to have to write an opinion. And we could just
say that, but I -- I don't see I can -- my own problem
is not being able to have an intelligent answer to that
without having some answer to the bigger picture. And
the bigger picture seems to me horrendously important.
And -- and I don't know what that answer is.
You seem to be getting there with the words
"deregulatory purpose." And I -- and I was thinking how
we might try to work with those, but go ahead.
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: Well, I think it's -- it
is an easier case in this case under the FAAAA -
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, I think it's much
harder than this case -
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: Well, I -
JUSTICE BREYER: -- because the relationship
is -- is in the -- in the more general case is more
direct to the tow truck. It says "go tow." And
that's -- that's why I need some kind of bigger picture.
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: I'm getting lost in the
"go tow" command, if you will.
JUSTICE BREYER: We have a statute which
says, if you park your car here for more than 3 hours,
you will be towed, okay? And as part of that statute,
though we don't see it, there is an arrangement for the
service of the city with the tow truck company, which
says when the parking person calls you and says -- the
meter says red, yellow, purple, green, you are to go
there and tow, okay?
Doesn't that sound as if it's regulating the
service of tow trucks? And I suspect across the
country, there is some variation on that theme, but
there are thousands of them. And since the words -- I
would be repeating it -- the words of this case may
affect that situation, I want to know what you know,
which may not be very much -- I don't blame you -- about
that broader situation.
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: Well, thank you for the
out, Justice Breyer. But again, I -- I -- the reason
I'm getting lost is -- and I understand the -- the
example having to do with the City of Cambridge having
no -- no parking, and if you're there for 3 hours, that
allows -- there is this -- statutes that allow the tow
truck operator, the motor carrier, to go and collect
that under a nonconsensual tow. And a nonconsensual tow
is a special animal, unfortunately, because there are no
market forces in play there.
But I don't believe that that's affecting
the motor carrier service. There is nothing that forces
that tow truck carrier to go out and actually undertake
that tow. And if they do undertake the tow or do the
business or whatnot, then certainly, they would be under
whatever obligations that the State has.
And that's one of the problems I think we
have -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think that
Justice Breyer is -- I may be speaking for him -- he's
thinking that that State contract or that State
regulation that permits towing companies to do this is
preempted in some way. That would be his argument
because it affects -
JUSTICE BREYER: Or the opposite.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No?
JUSTICE SCALIA: He's worried that it'll be
preempted.
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And he didn't -- he didn't
mention Cambridge, did he?
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think so.
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: I think he did yesterday,
too, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, you're both from
Boston, Massachusetts.
JUSTICE BREYER: And they're -- they're very
attractive places except in the winter.
But a -- a motor carrier vehicle -- a
service, transportation includes related to the movement
of passengers or property. Related to the movement of
passengers or property. So we have these words "related
to" again. I -- well, you've given me a couple of
ideas, but I -- maybe they'll turn out not to be
relevant, but -- but -- which I hope.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think maybe -- maybe we
have to make it up, what the limitation -- I mean,
you're quite right, everything's related to everything
else. And we've had trouble with the same -- the very
same words with ERISA, and -- and started off trying to
give it its -- its apparent meaning, "related to," and
we finally concluded you can't do that.
So what do you want us to make up? What
kind of a limitation do you -
(Laughter.)
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: Well -- Justice Scalia, I
don't think you have to make up too much in this
particular case. It gets easier to draw the line
because of the with respect to transportation of
property. So with respect to the FAAAA and motor
carriers, we're drawing the line as to only the services
of the movement of the property, and that is limiting.
And I do -- I would agree with your dissent.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Related to -- related to -
related to the movement of the property. That's the
problem. It's the "related to" words.
MR. SHAUGHNESSY: Correct. And then we go
back to the instructions in Rowe, which -- which
provided the framework that when you're interpreting
related to, you go: One, is it direct -- directly
regulating or directly affecting service; or, if it's an
indirect effect, which obviously it can be, it has to
have a significant impact on the services.
And then there's the ultimate out of Morales
that says if it's -- it could certainly connect, but if
it's too far attenuated to the purposes of Congress,
it's just not going to be done.
I know that doesn't help with the line
drawing in -- in connection of the gray area that we're
dealing with in this case, but I do believe in this
particular case, it is easier because we have that -
those words of limitation, "with respect to the
transportation of property" are words of limitation, and
they are not present in the ADA, and they were not
present with the ERISA cases, which deals with a broad
regulatory scheme with long history and other things
that apply.
We don't have that in this case. I believe
the New Hampshire Supreme Court got it right when they
were focusing on actually what is a service of a motor
carrier, and I believe we do have words of limitation in
this particular case.
So what the Supreme Court of New Hampshire
said is, "The manner in which a company in possession of
a towed vehicle may" -- not must -- "may dispose of the
vehicle to collect on a debt created by the operation of
State law is far removed from Congress's aim of
promoting free markets and equalizing the competitive
playing -- playing field between motor carriers and air
carriers, and help assure transportation rate services
reflect maximum reliance on -- on forces."
I also believe that the Petitioner has
basically given up the case and conceded the case in
several places in their brief and in here in oral
argument today. If you look at page 34 of the
Petitioner's brief, it says that most -- that "The most
that Dan's City really can say is that the services
within the meaning of Section 14501(c)(1) includes
activities that are incidental and distinct from the
actual transportation services."
So the Petitioner's brief is calling the
storage afterwards, after the transportation has
stopped. And -- and they call it incidental and
distinct.
In the reply brief at page 21, they say,
"Moreover, criminal laws prohibiting theft are not the
kind of burdensome State economic regulation Congress
sought to prevent with the FAAAA, nor are abandoned
vehicle laws such as New Hampshire Chapter 262 in its
regulations which do not hamper the operations of tow
truckers. Instead they establish procedures for the
efficient handling and disposition of abandoned
vehicles."
So they're conceding that RSA 262 in this
case, the statute does not have a specific impact, so
this is not a clear case.
I see I have more time, but I think I've
made all my points, if there are no more questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Yelin, welcome.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LEWIS S. YELIN,
FOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MR. YELIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Congress deregulated the trucking industry
to eliminate undue interference with market forces and
consumer choice. But market forces and consumer choice
cannot operate on the sale of nonconsensually towed
cars, and there's little reason to think that Congress
intended to preempt State laws that regulate that
conduct.
This Court in this case, as in many
preemption cases involving the phrase "related to," must
engage in a -- in a process of sensible line drawing.
Everything is related to everything else in
the literal sense. And the Court in Travelers suggested
that the Court should not -- courts should not use
uncritical literalism in determining the scope of a
preemption provision.
I think that this Court does have some work
to do in this case, but a lot of the groundwork has
already been laid in the Rowe case. In Rowe, this Court
held that a State law is related to a motor carrier
service if the State law either directly regulates the
service or if it has an indirect connection with the
service and a significant -- forbidden significant
effect on Congress's deregulatory and preemptive
objectives. I think -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's -- I
asked your friend on the other side the question.
Storage is part of what tow trucks do. Maybe in a way
that -- you know, cross-country trucks don't. And it
seems to me if you have a local jurisdiction who figures
out, well, this is a great way to make a lot of money
or -- you know, to give -- or the other way -- you know,
you can charge -- charge a lot because we want to keep
subsidized tow trucks. I mean, why isn't that fairly
directly related to the service they provide?
MR. YELIN: It's certainly a foreseeable
service that could be provided. The question is whether
it has a sufficient locus to the transportation itself.
I think there are indications in the statute
itself and the statutory purposes which suggest that the
Court should view service as a separate type of service,
independent and distinct from transportation, at least
in the towing context where the motor transportation has
ceased.
The reason for that, Your Honor -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand what you
just said. Say it again.
MR. YELIN: Yes, sir. I think that there
are reasons in the statutory text itself and in the
statutory objectives for viewing service as
independent -- excuse me, storage -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Service where? Service
where?
MR. YELIN: I misspoke, Justice Scalia.
Storage -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Storage, ah. I see.
MR. YELIN: -- as independent of
transportation. And the reasons for that are as
follows: First, let me start with the statutory text.
The statute defines "transportation" as "services
related to the transportation of property." And storage
has been in the Interstate Commerce Act for over
100 years, the term "storage." And for over 100 years
this Court has construed disputes concerning storage and
considered whether or not Federal law governed or State
law governed.
When the storage was before delivery of a
package, for example, the storage was considered to be
storage in transit and it was part of the transportation
itself. But if the storage occurred after delivery,
that was a separate service not connected with the
transportation.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Yelin, I gave
Mr. Shaughnessy a couple of hypotheticals about very
onerous regulations involving storage after the towing
that might very conceivably have an effect on the tower,
drive up the tower's prices, conceivably even drive the
tower out of the market. So how do we draw the line as
between this and those kinds of things?
MR. YELIN: So I have two points that I
would like to make with respect to that, Your Honor.
The first is that I think the hypotheticals you gave are
much more difficult cases and could very well cross the
line if a State tried to indirectly influence towers.
For example, let's assume, if I may elaborate on your
hypothetical, that a State really disliked the practice
of nonconsensual towing, and really wanted to try and
reign it in and so imposed certain conditions on towers
that would discourage them from engaging in this
particular type of service.
I think that would be an indirect type of
regulation, but it would, as a matter of fact, it really
would impair the ability or the interest of towers to
provide this service to -
JUSTICE SCALIA: How do we discover that?
Do we look into the city council hearings or what?
MR. YELIN: I think in part, Your Honor -
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I want to be able to
look at the law and say the law is preempted or the law
isn't preempted. Don't tell me -- you know, the purpose
of the law is this or that. That's not something I am
able to do.
MR. YELIN: Your Honor, I think some of
these preemption questions necessarily are factual in
part in nature. The Court, to consider whether or not a
service of the motor carrier is affected by an indirect
statute is -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, that's factual. But
whether the intent of the city council was this or that
is not factual.
MR. YELIN: Oh, no. That's right, Your
Honor. And I didn't mean to suggest that that would be
part of the inquiry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought that is what you
meant.
MR. YELIN: No, Your Honor. The question is
whether it would have that effect, that factual effect.
And if I may, I think it's critical in this case to
point out that Petitioner has conceded at page 21 of its
reply brief that laws like Chapter 262 do not hamper
towing industry practices. And Respondent's amicus
Towing and Recovery Association explains that laws like
this provide a critical backbone for nonconsensual
towing services. In the absence -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but I mean,
maybe these, but you can easily imagine that these types
of laws would be subject to abuse and would have an
adverse impact on the towing company and, therefore, on
the transportation of property.
MR. YELIN: And if there were such abusive
laws, Your Honor, and if they do impair the
transportation of property and the services that a tower
was willing to provide, I think that the Court would
likely consider those cases and consider those -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, now we only -
now we not only have to decide whether this type of law
is related to it, but once we say some of those laws
might be and some won't be, depending upon the impact in
a particular case.
MR. YELIN: Your Honor, I think every law
has to be considered in its application, and I think
that, for example, in Morales, the Court just didn't
consider -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Every law doesn't
have to be considered in its application. If you say
you can't speak out on the sidewalk, it doesn't matter
whether they apply it, you can consider that law
absolutely.
MR. YELIN: Fair enough, Your Honor. My
comment was too broad. What I would say is some laws
will be obvious. Those that directly regulate towing
industries, for example, a State law that flatly
prohibits nonconsensual towing would be the type of
direct regulation which is proscribed by this preemption
clause.
When you are talking about indirect
regulation, however, that perhaps is where I think one
needs to consider it on an as-applied basis because
indirect regulation by definition is not going to have
an obvious direct limit on towing services and the
question the Court will have to consider is whether the
indirect regulation is sufficiently onerous that it does
impair the provision of towing services.
JUSTICE BREYER: It seems to me we have two
choices. In Morales, since I can mock my own opinions,
I wrote at the end, "it's not -- when it's too tenuous,
remote or peripheral." That's singularly unhelpful.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: It seems to -- there -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought so at the time.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, you were right.
There are two directions you could go. But
first I would like to know, it seems my guess is it is
universally thought by cities that this Act does not
preempt their normal parking regulations. Am I right
about that?
MR. YELIN: You are right about that, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Then we either have
to take this tenuous, et cetera, this is too much, this
isn't too much, da, da, da, or you've given -- there is
another thought being thrown out and that is you relate
it to the basic purposes of the deregulation act and you
say that where the city is regulating something that
never was, could not be, and is not part of a regulated
or deregulated market, i.e. has nothing to do with the
subject matter, then it is not preempted.
Now, do you want us to take that approach?
Should we punt and just use the words like "tenuous"
or -- and if we take the implicit suggestion, what's the
right way to do it?
MR. YELIN: Your Honor, I think the two
alternatives you sketched are not mutually exclusive.
In fact, I think they support each other. I believe
that when a State law does not have a significant effect
on Congress's deregulatory and preemptive objectives, it
is by definition going to be too tenuously connected to
the motor carrier services.
I would propose, Your Honor, that in this
context, where the Department of Transportation would
have no regulatory authority and where there is no
private market that could fill the vacuum that would be
created by the removal of State laws creating the
structure for the private choices that are undertaken
here, this would be a prime example.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it would depend upon how
severe the consumer protection law is, is that right?
If it's a consumer protection law that really whacks the
tow truck operator, that would be different from a
moderate, benign consumer protection law? We have to
examine each consumer protection law on its own, is that
it?
MR. YELIN: I think the answer has to be
yes, Justice Scalia. In Morales, for example, the Court
considered the application of the consumer protection
law where the States were trying to use specific
guidelines.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why doesn't
this one really whack them, though? It's treble damages
and all that.
You can answer my question, yes.
(Laughter.)
MR. YELIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Your Honor, the Consumer Protection Act
claims that are asserted here are premised on Chapter
262, which structures the background organization of the
nonconsensual towing services altogether. There will be
no treble damages if the substantive provisions wee
satisfied. If they are not, that would be a different
question.
And, Your Honor, there has been no evidence
suggested here that in fact treble damages for a
violation of the background laws which structure the
standards that tow truck companies are supposed to
undertake would have that harm.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Bouffard, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW D. BOUFFARD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BOUFFARD: Thank you.
Let me take a couple of moments to try to
address some of the questions that seem to be troubling
some of the Justices.
Justice Breyer, the simple answer to why
local traffic safety laws wouldn't be preempted is that
there's an exemption for the safety regulatory authority
of States in the statute.
JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you.
MR. BOUFFARD: And, Justice Kagan, the
reason why this -- this case goes over the line and is
preempted is because what the Plaintiff's damages claims
in this case seek to do is they seek to enforce duties
that go well beyond what even the New Hampshire
abandoned vehicle law requires.
They seek to impose duties of reasonable
care to seek out the owner of the vehicle; they -
the -- the -- the negligence claim seeks to impose a
duty to act -- a duty of reasonable care in disposing of
the vehicle; and -- and a duty of reasonable care to
return the vehicle to Mr. Pelkey.
And those duties and what has been a breach
of those duties will be determined by a jury. And so
when tow truckers are faced in the future with having to
live up to those sets of duties, they will never know
whether or not, in any given situation, their conduct
will be second-guessed as having been not reasonable by
a jury and they will be subjected to damages claims by
plaintiffs. Under the -- the abandoned vehicle law, the
rule is very simple in New Hampshire and under -- and in
many other jurisdictions -- pay, or your vehicle can be
sold. It's a very simple rule. And -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it also tells how the
vehicle will be sold -- sold, and your client is
invoking that statute in order to be able to sell the
car, but wants to have enforced only the parts that are
favorable to the tow operation. And the -- the regime
in New Hampshire is, yes, you can sell the vehicle, but
this is how you do it. And it seems to me that that's
not how it was done here.
MR. BOUFFARD: Well, Justice Ginsburg,
actually, the -- the tower here wasn't invoking the law,
the tower was simply following what the law says in
terms of the process. This is a mandatory process.
When -- when a person comes into possession of another's
vehicle in New Hampshire and -- and there's no claim
made for the vehicle, the law requires that the tow
trucker report that fact to the Department of Motor
Vehicles.
And the Department of Motor Vehicles then
looks at the information that's provided and then
instructs the tower about the process of whether or not
the vehicle can -- can be sold without notice, or if
it -- if notice is required, what notice is required.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But it's a process that
allows you in certain circumstances to sell the car and
to take the money. And what Justice Ginsburg is
suggesting is -- you know, you have to take the bitter
with the sweet.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Please.
MR. BOUFFARD: Well, I -- I think
that the -- the New Hampshire law is the New Hampshire
law, and what we have here is -- is a tow trucker that
was just making a good faith -- a good faith attempt to
comply with the law. And if -- if tow truckers that are
making good faith attempts to comply with the law are
faced with Consumer Protection Act claims and negligence
claims and the kinds of remedies that come with Consumer
Protection Act claims, that will have a significant
impact on the business of these motor carriers.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:10 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
31:17,17 34:9 appear 16:16 attempt 51:25 blame 34:10
afterward 28:12 APPEARANC... attempts 52:2 BODY 1:4
7:8,9 agree 9:1 11:24 1:15 attention 31:3 Boston 7:1 35:23
8:2,5 39:5 21:22 36:25 appendix 20:20 attenuated 30:3 Bouffard 1:16
50:1,15 ah 13:20 20:4 application 4:21 37:13 2:3,13 3:6,7,9
43:14 ahead 11:17 33:9 applies 4:1 20:17 attractive 35:25 6:1,14,18 7:7
50:21 air 20:17,18 21:9 apply 4:2,9,22 25:15,19 9:14 10:1,4,12
52:10 38:11 37:24 45:18 26:1,3 47:23 11:23 12:3,22
13:20 B 49:12,21 51:2
2:2,5,8,12 3:4,7 37:5 breach 13:8 17:5
26:18
42:8 46:21
38:17 39:18 48:23 49:5 Breyer 5:23 6:5
48:21 50:5
arises 5:13 18:6 basically 38:15 21:17 22:15
8:20
arrangement behalf 1:16,19 33:12,15,21
articulate 28:17 13:9 24:10 35:24 46:10,15
24:3
44:17 artificial 23:7 12:14 26:22 Breyer's 8:11
3:7 40:23 29:10 30:19 24:9
33:3,4,6 asserts 12:11 benign 48:7 brings 4:3 15:11
49:16 Assistant 1:20 best 31:11 25:22
45:21 21:8,9,10,12 Chapter 39:6 clear 4:23 22:3 42:22,23
26:20 case 3:4,11 5:1,6 charge 41:4,4 close 17:13 conduct 3:19,19
10:6,22,23 11:7 17:4 18:8,18 collect 29:15,21 21:4,6 22:4
8:8 16:5 13:24 16:2,3,6 39:16,21 40:22 19:12 22:12 Congress's 38:9
16:10 19:12,19 44:21 45:6,15 come 11:14 14:9 40:20 47:18
29:19 35:1 20:3 21:4 22:12 48:15,20 49:8 19:25 52:4 connect 37:12
23:1,18 24:20 51:21 52:7 comes 51:6 connected 42:17
29:6 choices 46:11 command 33:20 connection 18:1
33:11,11,13,16 circumstances common 5:12,13 consensual 13:3
35:17 40:14,15 44:14 32:3,5 33:25 company 9:20 42:14 45:12,16
11:16,19 52:8,9 43:17 44:5 47:6 15:21 17:9,14 construed 42:10
24:14 cases 37:22 40:6 claim 5:12,12 7:8 17:16 27:19,21 consumer 3:13
26:4 27:20 43:4 45:5 7:20,22,22 32:22 33:25 5:9 7:20,22,23
33:22 causes 5:20,21 10:10,17 13:9 38:6 44:24 8:4,6,7,14 9:12
51:17 7:19 8:20 13:17 16:24 compensating 13:12,14 19:22
20:15 certain 43:9 claimant 16:4 26:24 48:7,8,12,21
23:17,20 51:17 claims 3:14,18 competitive 52:3,4
25:6 26:5 certainly 30:1 5:1 6:2,6,7,12 38:10 consumers 7:24
27:14 31:11 32:7 35:1 8:22 10:7,8 complaint 5:3 8:1 contains 20:24
37:12 41:7 17:25 18:2,15 completely 8:3 context 41:14
34:18 cetera 47:2 48:22 49:23 comply 52:1,2 47:22
36:1 challenge 25:21 50:14 52:3,4,5 concede 22:17 contract 13:4,7,8
40:16 44:2 challenged 25:5 clarify 27:9 conceded 38:15 13:13 17:5,7
challenging 25:2 clause 19:13 44:15 35:7
20:17,18 changing 15:16 clause's 19:14 conceivably 13:5
37:4 da 47:3,3,3 deregulatory disputed 11:6 enactment 22:22
7:20,21 48:16 40:20 47:18 17:18,25 18:3 ended 16:11
39:16 49:8 50:14 described 17:4 dissent 20:3 enforced 50:22
Dan's 3:4 24:20 determined 50:9 36:25 enforcement
34:6 DAN'S 1:3,4 40:11 distinct 38:21 engage 3:21 40:7
49:13 day 3:20 6:21 8:17 9:19 23:18 distinction 23:8 engaging 43:10
DBA 1:4 different 6:15 9:9 draw 28:15,16 equalizing 38:10
13:10 dealing 3:21 27:6 17:20 21:5,22 drawing 30:19 ERISA 36:12
18:13 28:11 37:17 23:12 28:20 36:23 37:16 37:22
20:13 deals 37:22 48:6 49:1 40:7 ESQ 1:16,18,20
24:12 debt 9:7 38:8 difficult 43:4 drive 42:23,23 2:3,6,9,13
30:19 decide 45:7 direct 28:5,9,16 duties 49:24 50:2 establish 39:8
38:1,5 decided 13:10 28:18 29:9 50:8,9,11 estate 17:23 18:1
40:5,9,10 decision 5:16 31:16 33:17 duty 50:5,5,6 et 47:2
41:12 13:11 14:9 37:7 45:25 46:6 D.C 1:9,21 event 22:11
44:1 45:4 27:25 directed 3:19 everybody 22:8
46:7 decisions 18:14 5:22 22:25 E everything's
defense 5:22 direction 8:12 E 2:1 3:1,1 36:10
29:13 defines 42:6 37:7,8 40:17 easily 44:22 examine 48:8
definition 15:1,5 41:6 45:22 eat 19:24 example 17:23
46:5 47:19 discharge 11:11 37:9 40:20 43:6 45:13,23
depend 48:3 12:10 elaborate 43:6 31:25
depends 32:4 50:5 eliminated 9:8 expressly 3:12
36:22 focusing 38:2 36:13 41:3 50:16,24 51:7 hypothetical
followed 6:4 given 36:5 38:15 51:23,23 28:21 29:1 43:7
26:8 follows 42:5 go 6:25 19:6,6 handling 39:9
47:16
51:9
39:24,25 34:24 37:4,7 happened 4:19 ideas 36:6
21:14 goods 15:8,8,11 help 37:15 38:12 impinge 29:18,20
government hold 9:21 27:20 30:1 33:5
23:9
30:7
9:3 40:14 29:22 35:21 16:19 19:16
23:12,16 guess 6:5,11 41:16 43:2,18 includes 15:2,5
22:5 46:20 43:24 44:8,12 20:21 36:2
guidelines 48:14 45:2,11,20 38:20
9:7 19:21 48:21 49:3 independent
31:23 H hook 27:15 41:13,22 42:3
33:16 ha 9:3,4 hope 22:12 24:4 indications 41:10
33:7,19 44:16 horrendously 37:9 40:18
Hampshire 1:18 33:5 43:12 44:2 46:2
11:13 5:13,16 8:19 11:2 33:22 indirectly 22:9
42:5 43:3
12:1 12:4,6 14:3,4,7 34:16 43:5
23:11,16 22:19 23:3,6 how's 7:5 industries 21:6
J 5:13,14,18,19 limitations 21:12 Manchester
jurisdiction 8:2,5,6,13,14 limiting 20:24 mandatory 51:5
50:17 13:14,19 19:20 27:12 manner 38:6
40:3 keep 41:4 45:11,15,18,23 literal 19:4,6 Massachusetts
33:18 36:16 48:8,13 50:1,15 literalism 40:11 massively 19:15
39:4 51:3,4,8,23,24 literally 19:2 matter 1:12
7:12 15:9,16 laws 6:7,10 7:14 locate 4:17 maximum 38:13
29:1 29:16 30:15 19:16 24:22 long 37:23 21:20 26:9 30:6
43:21 46:20 47:25 49:5,17 looked 30:21 26:23 36:13
leaves 15:11 looking 18:18 meaningless 8:3
17:21 laid 40:15 legislative 21:3 looks 51:12 meant 44:11
landlord 16:24 letter 12:3,7,8,11 lose 31:20 mention 21:19
18:9 landowner 26:3 25:17 lost 33:19 34:14 meter 34:2
20:15 language 18:19 letters 25:13 lot 16:22 21:17 millions 6:6,11
19:5 20:14,23 let's 16:21 43:6 22:5 40:14 41:2 minor 5:19
10:23 28:13 39:18 lots 17:20 minutes 49:9
largely 22:21 lien 30:15 misspoke 41:25
42:21 20:5,7,10 36:17 limit 19:8 20:25 Maine 29:6,7 mode 15:16
law 3:13,24,25 limitation 19:9 21:20 moments 49:13
18:16,24 okay 33:23 34:3 parking 16:22 2:4,14 3:8
46:11 never 12:23 24:2 once 23:20 27:15 46:22 49:11
24:2 47:7 50:11 27:19 31:13 part 5:24 11:7 Petitioner's
7:8,10 4:14 5:10,13,16 onerous 27:18 30:1 33:23 phrase 14:17
15:25 16:1 7:9,24 8:13,19 29:18 42:21 40:24 42:15 40:6
18:4 12:4,6 14:3,4,7 46:8 43:18 44:1,9 pick 15:21
19:14 17:24,24 22:19 operate 40:1 47:7 picked 9:22
20:15,18 23:3,6 27:18 operation 18:15 particular 3:21 10:14 11:2 17:9
38:1,5 39:6 18:17 23:12 16:3 32:15 picks 15:10
23:17 49:25 50:16,24 38:8 50:23 36:20 37:18 picture 33:4,5,18
24:16,22 51:7,23,23 operations 4:5,5 38:4 43:11 place 12:9 13:1
26:5,10,23 Ninth 14:9 39:7 45:10 15:21 16:5,5
27:14 nonconsensual operative 13:2 parties 11:5 22:10,10 26:19
3:22 9:15 34:19 operator 4:10,11 13:13 31:11
34:18 34:19 43:8 26:6 34:18 48:6 parts 9:23 10:14 places 35:25
36:1,22 44:19 45:24 opinion 33:1 11:3 50:22 38:16
40:16 48:24 opinions 46:11 passengers plaintiff 5:3,6,9
44:2 nonconsensually opportunity 9:16 26:25 36:3,4 10:6,10,16
51:9,11 40:1 9:17 11:11,14 pay 8:25 9:2,7,8 11:10,15 13:9
normal 9:12 opposed 18:17 9:17 11:8,11,21 16:8
26:25 northeast 6:23 oral 1:12 2:2,5,8 12:23,24 16:23 Plaintiff's 5:1
northeastern 3:7 24:9 38:16 25:15 30:16 49:23
36:2,3,24 6:10 39:18 50:17 play 34:21
notice 11:1,14 order 27:25 29:2 payment 10:19 playing 38:11,11
12:20,21,24 24:12 39:22
43:25 obligation 9:7 owns 27:22 12:1,7,11 25:2 12:1 15:3 20:13
obligations 35:2 P Pelkey's 24:14 pointed 27:12,25
33:18 46:6 package 42:14 peripheral 46:13 points 39:15 43:1
10:7,10,17 occurred 42:16 44:15 23:15 26:23 policy 7:24
50:4 offer 12:24 22:12 paid 3:17 30:1 34:1 51:6 posited 28:22
offered 12:22 park 6:9,24 personal 24:15 position 23:25
30:9 31:5 provide 26:12 14:13 15:19 regulation 22:7
23:20 38:6 previously 21:25 44:19 45:4 19:1,7 29:10 31:16
price 25:4,8,11 provided 12:24 real 17:22 18:1 35:8 39:4 43:13
prime 48:2 provides 26:1 12:15,16 17:5 19:17 39:7
13:6 26:3,4 providing 26:23 43:7,8,13 48:5 regulatory 21:21
probably 6:10 provisions 19:17 12:18 14:23 49:18
8:19 problem 22:5,24 public 26:2 40:2 41:16 relate 17:7,15
40:3 46:22 problems 29:5 purple 34:2 reasonable 50:2 related 8:20,22
7:9,16 procedures 39:8 32:2 33:8 43:21 reasons 41:20 22:9 27:1 28:1
9:24 13:6 proceeds 25:18 purposes 31:18 42:4 30:10,21,22,23
25:20 37:13 41:11 REBUTTAL 30:24,25 31:2,4
16:24 process 40:7 47:5 2:12 49:10 31:6 36:2,3,4
18:2,10 51:5,5,13,16 put 11:17 record 12:4,6 36:10,13 37:1,1
23:1,3 prohibiting 39:3 puts 9:2 Recovery 44:18 37:2,3,7 40:6,8
28:11 prohibits 45:24 putting 31:15 red 34:2 40:16 41:6 42:7
35:9,14 promoting 38:10 p.m 52:9 reference 21:21 45:8
47:9 property 14:6 21:22 25:11 relates 5:20 8:3
16:20 18:21,22 Q referred 3:22 17:11,13 26:25
19:16 26:4,11 27:1,4 24:4 31:21 reflect 38:13 relatively 5:19
21:5,9 27:8,11 29:24 40:23 41:8 reflective 12:16 relevant 36:7
27:13 29:25 36:3,4,22 44:12 46:7 regard 14:17 reliance 38:13
40:6,12 36:24 37:2,20 48:18 49:2 21:3,12 rely 5:1
45:25 42:7 44:25 45:3 questions 39:15 regime 50:23 relying 14:8
40:20 proscribed 45:25 quite 15:1 25:14 10:2,5 28:2 remedies 52:4
protecting 7:24 36:10 32:4,8 40:3 remote 17:12
19:22 21:8
30:5 39:16 scenario 17:1 41:21,23,23 simply 51:4
37:5 40:15,15 21:5 27:12 19:13,14 25:6 18:5 34:9,11
27:7 32:21 secondly 5:11 27:14 36:23 sketched 47:15
rule 30:7 50:16 50:13 38:22 42:6 sold 10:13 11:18
running 8:12 see 7:15 9:12 48:24 Solicitor 1:20
18:20 S 33:2,24 39:14 sets 50:11 somebody 8:25
23:1 S 1:20 2:1,9 3:1 42:2 severe 48:4 9:1 16:22
25:23,24 39:18 seek 49:24,24 severely 27:12 somebody's
27:10 safety 49:17,18 50:2,3 Shaughnessy 32:25
29:24 sale 23:4 24:22 seeking 16:4 1:18 2:6 12:7 Sotomayor 12:20
36:21,22 40:1 seeks 50:4 24:8,9,11 25:10 13:3,12,16,20
43:2 satisfied 49:1 seen 7:3 26:13,16 27:17 14:1,5,10,15
15:20,25,25 16:23 50:21,24 29:20 30:18 23:6 25:22
2:7,11 29:2 selling 23:14 33:19 34:12 35:12
24:10 says 6:8 9:3 29:17,17 35:15,18,20 sought 39:5
18:19 31:5 32:9 sense 18:3 31:22 36:18 37:4 sound 34:4
44:17 34:2 37:12 sensible 40:7 ships 15:17 space 15:9
19:3 31:20 20:2,4,6,8,12 42:17 32:13 specific 20:15
36:10 21:19 25:8 service 18:20,24 significant 12:19 39:12 48:13
44:7 46:18 27:11 29:11 24:16 26:10,18 32:1 37:10 specifically
47:13 35:13,16,19,22 28:1,2,3,4,7,13 40:19,19 47:17 26:22
36:8,18 37:1 29:3,4,9,13,15 52:5 standards 49:6
18:8,18 48:3,11 40:17,18,19 simple 49:16 30:19 36:12
26:7,14 Scalia's 13:4 41:6,8,12,12 50:16,18 State 3:13 7:24
10:2,4,5 25:23 26:12,17 8:24,25 9:20 theft 39:3 4:1 7:2 9:1,1,15
13:5,19 27:6,7,8 28:12 15:7 17:12 theme 34:6 12:25 13:5
22:2,7 29:15 30:13,13 23:22 27:17,19 thing 4:18 6:12 15:25 16:22,23
24:19 38:24 40:24 27:21 23:13 31:14 17:6,8,14,16
31:15 41:22 42:1,2,7 supposed 7:5 things 6:16 14:11 17:18 18:9,17
38:9 42:9,10,13,14 49:6 22:6 24:23 26:9 23:11 25:3,5
40:3,16,17 42:15,16,21 Supreme 1:1,13 29:22 30:10 26:5,8 27:15
43:5,7 storage-related 5:16 12:4,6 37:23 42:25 32:8,22 33:17
47:17,25 28:22 14:8 23:6 38:1 think 6:14,18 9:6 33:17,20,25
3:12 32:4 15:18,22 16:3 sure 22:17 14:15,16 15:6 34:19,24,25,25
39:19 26:9 suspect 34:5 15:13 16:25 39:7 40:24 41:5
49:19 stored 23:21 sweep 24:19 31:4 17:1 18:11 19:2 48:6 49:6 50:10
strictly 21:16 T 33:10,12 35:3,5 towed 3:15 6:10
5:2,10 49:5 take 23:8 30:15 36:19 39:14 10:13 11:1
9:25 structures 48:23 31:9 47:2,10,12 40:2,13,21 23:23 25:4
15:13,23 subchapter 4:14 49:13 51:18,19 41:10,19 43:3 27:20 33:23
17:10 subject 44:23 takes 22:10 43:12,18,24 38:7 40:1
19:1,5,7 47:9 talking 32:1 46:2 44:14 45:4,11 tower 23:23
subjected 50:14 talks 25:25 45:12 46:3 42:22,24 45:3
21:3,7 submit 5:16 23:7 tangential 17:11 47:14,16 48:10 51:3,4,13
28:11 submitted 52:8 tell 7:16 19:10 51:22 towers 43:5,9,14
32:21 52:10 43:21 thinking 33:8 tower's 42:23
39:12 subsidized 41:5 tells 32:9 50:19 35:7 towing 3:16 4:1,5
42:6 44:3 substantive 5:5,8 temporarily thought 11:14 4:19,20 5:24
50:21 48:25 15:18 15:14 31:24 6:3,7 7:15 8:13
sued 5:5,8 tension 31:7 47:4 9:20 11:9,17,22
sufficiently 46:8 47:2,11 34:7 12:23 14:6 16:2
suggest 41:11 tenuously 47:19 thrown 47:4 23:2 27:19,21
40:9 49:4 terminated 27:14 times 31:1 41:14 42:21
6:4 suggestion 47:12 29:17 51:5 14:22,24 20:21 44:20,24 45:22
11:9 12:12 suit 18:10 text 20:19 41:20 24:13 45:24 46:6,9
14:2,6 superseded 22:3 42:5 today 10:23 48:24
15:2,6,6 support 47:16 thank 24:6,11 38:17 towing-related
supporting 1:22 34:12 39:16,21 told 19:19 29:11 28:23
22:10 2:11 39:20 48:20 49:8,12 tort 3:14 tows 3:23 9:2
25:9,11,21 suppose 4:13 49:20 52:7 tow 3:14,20,21 traditional 21:23
24:19 18:17,22 26:5 unrelated 5:11 Washington 1:9 Wrecker 19:12
33:17,25 34:18 47:11 48:13 wasn't 9:22 written 12:8
18:1 trucker 3:14 51:9 V 16:7 51:3 20:8,12
truckers 39:8 vacuum 24:21 17:12,13,14 46:12
7:1 14:13 16:22 26:9 34:5 4:8,12,24 5:2,5 47:13
Y
40:24,25 41:5 Wednesday 1:10
6:3,4 7:9 year 22:23
try 33:9 43:8 wee 48:25
8:2,5 years 15:10,12
16:8,9,11 49:13 week 6:22
9:1 42:9,9
trying 21:7 36:12 weeks 25:14
12:10,25 Yelin 1:20 2:9
18:7,21 48:13 welcome 39:17
16:1,1,3,4 39:17,18,21
22:22 turn 36:6 went 11:17 31:8
23:14,16 41:7,19,25 42:3
24:2 twin 20:16 we're 6:19 31:5
24:22 42:19 43:1,18
26:10,19 two 25:13 43:1 36:23 37:16
26:2,24 43:24 44:7,12
46:10,19 47:14 we've 19:11
36:1 38:7 45:1,11,20
type 3:19,21 36:11
39:6 50:1 46:24 47:14
30:8 21:13 31:4 whack 48:16
48:10,20
36:2,21 41:12 43:11,12 whacks 48:5
51:7,8 yellow 34:2
38:12,22 45:7,24 whatnot 35:1
yesterday 35:20
41:9,13 types 17:17,20 White 21:25
42:4,6,7 44:22 vehicles 4:7,15 willing 45:4 $
44:25 25:25 39:10 winter 35:25
47:22 51:10,11 Wolens 13:11
29:3 uncritical 40:11 Vermont 1:16 words 19:25 20:3 100 42:9,9
31:2,8 8:24 11:20 viewing 41:21 33:7 34:7,8 12-52 1:5 3:4
34:14 41:17 violation 8:2,5,6 36:4,12 37:3,19 12:10 52:9
undertaken 48:1 work 7:6 32:13 38:20
49:4 1970 22:20
32:16 34:9 working 22:11
3:12 32:4 wanted 43:8 worry 32:3 2013 1:10
39:19 wants 50:22 wouldn't 10:1 21 39:2 44:15
17:6,9,14
15:12 28:8 49:17 11:2
18:9
25:25,25
32:21 39:6
44:16
2:4 12:9 15:12
34:16
38:17
2:11
20:21,24
2:14 14:22,24
12:5
12:5
