IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
LINDA METRISH, WARDEN, :
Petitioner : No. 12-547
v. :
BURT LANCASTER :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, April 24, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ., Michigan Solicitor General,
Lansing, Michigan; on behalf of Petitioner.
KENNETH M. MOGILL, ESQ., Lake Orion, Michigan; on behalf
of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
KENNETH M. MOGILL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 18
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 47
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 12-547, Metrish v. Lancaster.
Mr. Bursch?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. BURSCH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BURSCH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
This is a Sixth Circuit habeas appeal
involving AEDPA deference.
Harrington v. Richter holds that a Federal
court may only overturn a State court conviction that is
such an erroneous misapplication of this Court's clearly
established precedent as to be beyond any possibility of
fair-minded disagreement. That is, an extreme
malfunction.
Here, a fair-minded jurist could conclude
that the Michigan Supreme Court's Carpenter decision was
neither indefensible nor unexpected when it simply
applied plain statutory language in accord with
well-established Michigan interpretive principles.
Accordingly, the Michigan Court of Appeals
application of Carpenter was not error, and the Sixth
Circuit should be reversed.
I'd like to begin with the statutory text.
In 1975, the Michigan legislature passed a comprehensive
mental capacity affirmative defense statute. In it, the
defenses are defined for mental illness and mental
retardation, but it says nothing about diminished
capacity. And that silence is crucial here, because in
Michigan, for over 200 years, it has been a code
jurisdiction, which means that if the statutes address a
particular area of criminal law, only that statute
applies, and the Michigan courts are not allowed to
either add to or subtract from that statutory text.
So only the Michigan legislature had the
power to add a diminished capacity defense.
JUSTICE SCALIA: 200 years -- 200 years?
Did you say that?
MR. BURSCH: Yes. Actually, even before
Michigan was a territory -- I'm -- before it was a State
in 1810, it passed a law that abolished common law
criminal principles when there was a statute that
addressed the -- the subject matter.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was some law in
effect in Michigan on this subject from the year 1973
till the year 2001. There was no statute and there was
no ancient common law. But what -- what was it? If I
asked you the question, what was the law in Michigan on
diminished capacity from 1973 to 2001, what would you
respond?
MR. BURSCH: It -- it changed one time. In
1973, there was a Michigan Court of Appeals decision
that recognized as a matter of common law the diminished
capacity defense, but that was set aside by the 1975
statute which established all the comprehensive
diminished capacity defenses available, and left out
diminished capacity.
So in 1975, 1976, you know, 1978 -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How -- how was the
Michigan Court of Appeals construing the defense? Did
it say -- it didn't say anything about the 1975 statute.
MR. BURSCH: Well, what the Michigan Court
of Appeals did beginning in 1978 in the Mangiapane case
was to ask, is diminished capacity part of the statutory
code, and it never held expressly that it was. What it
did in Mangiapane and in subsequent cases, it assumed
that the defense existed, but it never held that. And
that dicta could not override the plain language of the
statute.
And, in fact, counsel on the other side has
not pointed to a single Michigan decision where a
conviction or an exoneration on acquittal, or even a
finding of ineffective assistance was ever based on the
diminished capacity defense.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was the 1973 case that you
mentioned based on a statute or was it based on
allegedly a vacuum that the statutory structure allowed
the court to fill? I mean, is that the way the 1973
case came about? And was the 1973 case followed by
other courts, or was it just an isolated precedent?
MR. BURSCH: The 1973 case was a common law
vacuum, Justice Kennedy, where the Michigan legislature
had not yet spoken about mental incapacity defenses, and
so it stood alone, as the court was able to do, as a
common law decision. There were no other cases that
relied on it before the '75 statute was enacted. And
after that point, the Michigan appellate courts did not
look to the '72 decision as the source of the doctrine.
They assumed that if it existed, it must be somewhere
within the statute.
And then in Carpenter, in 2001, the Michigan
Supreme Court, when finally the very first Michigan
court to look at the question explicitly says, well,
it's not in the statute, diminished capacity isn't
there. We've got mental retardation, we've got mental
illness. No diminished capacity. As the Michigan
judiciary, we lack the power to add the diminished
capacity defense.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, we don't -- well, we
don't really have to reach this issue in this case,
according to your submission, but what would happen if a
State -- an intermediate State appellate court said the
law is such-and-such, and then a -- a person is tried in
the interim, is tried and subsequently, the State
supreme court says that intermediate State court
decision was incorrect, that never was the law of this
State; the law was exactly the opposite.
MR. BURSCH: I think you would apply the
same principles to that hypothetical as you did in
Rogers. And -- and in Rogers, you had a nearly 100-year
common law history of the year and a day rule in the
Tennessee Supreme Court that the defense was available
to use that term for nearly 100 years, and yet it didn't
violate due process in Rogers for the Tennessee Supreme
Court to abolish the rule because it was neither
indefensible nor unexpected.
Now, this case is much easier than Rogers or
your hypothetical for several reasons. First, as I
mentioned, it's a habeas case and so we've got the layer
of AEDPA deference that wasn't there.
Second, we're not talking about the
evolution of the common law like we were in Rogers.
We're talking about a statute and the statute meant what
it said in '75, just like it did in '01, just like it
does today.
And the last thing is that in the Rogers
case even the Tennessee Supreme Court acknowledged there
was a change. And here the Michigan Supreme Court said
there was no change because the statute said what it
said in 1975 and that meant no diminished capacity.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what I'm wondering is
how we even get beyond the statement, the holding by a
State supreme court regarding the -- the law of the
State. Don't we have to accept that as the -- as the
law of the State? Isn't that what our decision in Fiore
says? If the State supreme court says this is the law
and it's always been the law, then how can we
second-guess that?
MR. BURSCH: Justice Alito, I would think
about it in -- in two pieces. And the first piece is
can you second-guess the Michigan Supreme Court's
interpretation of the statute, and I think the answer
there everybody has to agree is no. The State's
interpretation of its own statute binds this Court,
binds all Federal courts, just like the South Carolina
Supreme Court decision in -- in Bouie did.
With respect to the Michigan Supreme Court's
analysis of the retroactive effect, I agree that Fiore
stands for that very proposition, and I think Indiana
makes that case very forcefully in the -- the
multi-State amici brief. You don't have to reach that
question here, however, because given the AEDPA standard
and the fact that the Michigan Supreme Court decision
was so clearly not a misapplication of Rogers and Bouie,
it makes this a relatively easy case. But I think you'd
be fully within your right to follow the Fiore holding.
JUSTICE KAGAN: You -- you suggested,
General, that the -- the fact that this is statutory
makes your position easier.
MR. BURSCH: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And I wonder if that's true.
I mean, you could see an -- an argument the exact other
way, which suggests that we all understand that common
law changes and evolves over time, but that it's rare
for a court to reverse a decision on what a statute
means, and that that's not foreseeable in the same way.
So -- now, especially if it were a single court saying
the statute means A today, and then tomorrow it comes
back and it says, no, it means B, whether that isn't
actually -- whether that wouldn't cut against your
position.
MR. BURSCH: Justice Kagan, I think this is
the easiest case, because it's not just statutory
interpretation; it's statutory interpretation of a
statute that is just plain on its face. If you had an
ambiguous statute, yes, then maybe there would be some
more uncertainty. But where you've got a statute that
enumerates several defenses, does not include diminished
capacity, and under Michigan law it's not enumerated,
it's not there, and the courts can't add it, that does
make this easier.
I think it was probably a -- a bigger
challenge in Rogers, for example, to acknowledge that,
one, Tennessee law had changed right out from underneath
the defendant; and yet, even given that change, this
Court was comfortable that it was not indefensible or
unexpected. I think when -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Counsel, what about the
Michigan Court of Appeals? There's only one court of
appeals, right?
MR. BURSCH: Correct, Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so that court several
times recognized diminished capacity as a defense.
MR. BURSCH: Well, it -- it didn't recognize
it as a defense in the sense that it analyzed the
statute and said yes, the defense is available. It in
many instances assumed that it might exist and if it did
then this is the result. The closest it comes is this
Mangiapane decision in 1978, and the court says very
specifically there that the definition of mental illness
in the statute, it's similar to diminished capacity, but
the court says at page 247 of the North West Second
Report the court was not prepared to say they are
identical.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The -
MR. BURSCH: So -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Your colleague said that
there were 130 appellate decisions -- I take it that's
the court of appeals decisions -- recognizing diminished
capacity as a defense.
MR. BURSCH: Recognizing it as a possible
defense. Again, in every single one of those cases, all
of which would be contrary to the statutory language,
incidentally, in not a single one of them did a
conviction or an acquittal or a finding of ineffective
assistance ever turn on that point. And so in that
sense, it's also again very much like Rogers, where this
Court said that the year and a day rule had never been
used for an acquittal or a conviction in any Tennessee
case.
And so the question is, again through the
AEDPA deference lens, which is very high, was the
Carpenter decision defensible and expected? And we
would submit that any time that a State supreme court
applies the plain language of the statute in accord with
established principles of interpretation in that State,
it could almost never be indefensible or unexpected.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This -- that seems a
little strange for the following reason, just as I think
this case presents an example. You're claiming it's
clear because the supreme court said it was clear, but
the court of appeals in Mangiapane, whether or not it
assumed it or not, did an analysis that clearly says
that it believes that the definition of legal insanity
includes diminished capacity.
Its holding didn't need that analysis,
because it could have assumed it and then just said:
But no notice was given, so the defense fails here. It
took the time to analyze just this question and came to
a contrary conclusion. Its contrary conclusion was that
"legal insanity" was a broad enough term under Michigan
law to encompass this defense.
The court of -- the State supreme court has
now said no, it's not. But I don't know that that makes
the statute any less ambiguous merely because a court
announces that it thin ks it's not.
MR. BURSCH: Well, two responses to that,
Justice Sotomayor. First, I want to be again very
careful about what Mangiapane actually held. It did
look at the statutory language and at page 247 said:
"We are not prepared to say they are identical," meaning
the definition of mental illness and the concept of
diminished capacity. There the question was procedural
because the defendant had not given the prosecutor
notice of any defense based on mental capacity in the
trial court, and so the court said, well, you know,
assuming that the -- the defense exists, we are not
prepared to decide that today -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I -
MR. BURSCH: -- because you would have to
give statutory notice.
The second -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I would have thought
your -- you can get to your second one, but I would have
thought your first response to -- to the question would
have been to deny that you say it's clear because the
Supreme Court of Michigan has said so. I thought your
argument is it's clear because it's clear.
MR. BURSCH: Justice Scalia, that was my
second point.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ah, okay. It should have
been your first point. The premise is simply wrong.
You're saying it was clear because the statute's clear.
MR. BURSCH: It was clear. And if any
Michigan court had had the opportunity to actually
decide it on the merits in light of this 200-year
history of Michigan being a criminal code State, it was
clear. And so this is the point when a State court
decision is most defensible and most expected, applying
the plain language of a clear statute in accord with
State principles.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there any States with
a statute identical or -- or close to the Michigan
statute that have interpreted the statute to say it does
include diminished capacity?
MR. BURSCH: Justice Kennedy, I'm not aware
of -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: This statute is -- fairly
well tracks the common law tradition, which indicates
that diminished capacity is not a defense.
MR. BURSCH: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm just curious to know
if any State courts have reached an opposite conclusion
under a statute like that.
MR. BURSCH: I'm not aware of any other
States that have the same statute and have addressed the
question one way or the other. I do know that the
language of the Michigan statute is fairly unique. If
you look in the criminal law treatises, we're kind of in
a category of only a very few States that, you know, on
the one hand, define mental illness and mental
retardation, do not define or mention diminished
capacity, and yet still have this guilty but insane
option, which is something that Michigan common law did
not have, but then that was added in the '75 statute.
So it's a little bit unique.
I think it's also unique to Michigan that we
have this 200-year criminal code history, which if
you're interested you can read all about it in the In Re
Lamphere case that we cite on page 4 to 5 of our reply
brief. But it's when you put those things together that
really make this such an easy case.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, General, I guess I
wonder whether it's relevant what the statute really
says as opposed to what courts said it says. I mean,
sometimes judges make errors and our law is dotted with
places where courts have made errors and said that
things mean what they don't mean or don't mean what they
do mean, and, you know, we expect people to follow what
the court says is the law even if there's really a
better reading out there.
And also, we think that people should rely
on what the court says is the law, even though there's
really a better reading out there.
And so, you know, what does it matter if we
come out and said -- and say, you know, what were these
crazy Michigan courts doing? If that's what they were
doing, it seems as though people had a right to rely on
that.
MR. BURSCH: Well, the expectation certainly
is that people would rely on Michigan statutory law.
And I concede that this would be a more difficult case
if the Michigan Supreme Court in, say, 1990 had come out
in a published opinion and and said the exact opposite
of what it said in 2001. Obviously, that's not what
happened here.
But -- but ultimately, you know, the
question that would have been on Mr. Lancaster's mind
back in 1993 when he shot and killed Toni King was, does
Michigan law prohibit me, will it punish me if I -- I
kill someone? And -- and clearly, he had to know that.
And if he had looked at the 1975 statute, he would have
seen that diminished capacity was not mentioned there.
So to the extent that he -- he wanted to rely on that
defense, he wouldn't have found it in Michigan's
codified law.
Now, I know the argument on the other side
is, well, we have these other cases which, you know,
mention the doctrine, kind of assume without deciding
that -- that it's out there. And he wants to assume
that he has all the knowledge of that, but not the
knowledge of the background principle that Michigan
won't add affirmative defenses to a statute through a
judicial action.
And if you're going to impute any knowledge
to him, and -- and we submit that you probably
shouldn't, then you've got to impute all the knowledge
of Michigan law, the plain language of the statute and
the interpretive principles that should guide what that
statute means.
He knew that killing someone was wrong.
Unquestionably, he was on fair notice of that. And -
and just like in Rogers, this diminished capacity
defense after 1975 was never relied on by any Michigan
court to either hold someone guilty or to acquit them or
to find that there was ineffective assistance. It just
was not the kind of well- established principle that
could possibly make the Carpenter decision either
indefensible or unexpected.
And then when you layer that on top with
AEDPA deference, you know, really, this is about as
simple as it gets. There is no decision of -- of this
Court, not Rogers, not Bouie, not Fiore, not Bunkley,
any Court decision that is contrary to or misapplied in
this Michigan Court of Appeals opinion.
Unless the Court has any further questions,
I'll reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Mogill.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENNETH M. MOGILL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. MOGILL: Mr. Chief Justice -- excuse
me -- and may it please the Court:
At the time of his offense in this matter,
Respondent had a well-established uncontested right to
present evidence of diminished capacity in order to
negate the elements of premeditation and deliberation in
the first-degree murder charge against him, and he did
assert that defense at his first trial. That trial was
rendered unfair by the prosecutor's Batson error.
Respondent was not allowed to present the
same defense at his retrial, however, because 8 years
after his offense, the Michigan Supreme Court
unexpectedly changed the rules in midstream, holding in
Carpenter that a statute that had been enacted 26 years
before and that did not use the words "diminished
capacity," did not express an intent to abolish any
defense of diminished capacity, but the Supreme Court
held that it had been abolished.
That was fundamentally unfair to Respondent,
all the more so, because if the Michigan courts had
ruled correctly on the Batson issue, retrial would have
occurred before 2001, and there's no question but that
Respondent would have been able to raise the diminished
capacity as -
JUSTICE SCALIA: He would have been able to
raise it. There's a lot of question about whether it
would have been successful, because if it had gone up to
the Michigan Supreme Court -- the statute was in effect
during his first trial?
MR. MOGILL: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He could have raised it,
but if it went up to the Michigan Supreme Court, it
would have had the same result as here.
MR. MOGILL: With all due respect -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And your only -- your only
defense would have been, oh, it's a great surprise. But
I don't see how it's a surprise if the Michigan law has
been, as -- as the Solicitor General of Michigan has
described it, that -- that there's a clear tradition.
If -- if the statute addresses the area, the courts will
not -- will not supplement it by -- by common law
additions. Did he not know that?
MR. MOGILL: With all due respect to
opposing counsel, I -- the view -- our view of the law
is -- is entirely different. Michigan recognizes the
common law in its Constitution. Michigan law has -- was
firmly established that the diminished capacity defense
existed. By 1973 -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you say it was
firmly -- do you -- do you contest the -- the assertion
by the solicitor general that there is no case which -
which acknowledged and held the defense of diminished
capacity?
MR. MOGILL: I disagree.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that wrong?
MR. MOGILL: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what case -
MR. MOGILL: Well, first of all -- I'm
sorry, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- lets the defendant off
on the basis of diminished capacity?
MR. MOGILL: The -- let somebody off? Well,
first of all, we're not talking about -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What case has a holding, a
holding that diminished capacity excuses the crime or
mitigates the crime.
MR. MOGILL: Mitigates. Justice Scalia, in
Lynch itself in 1973, Ms. Lynch was charged with
first-degree murder for the starvation -- in relation to
the starvation death of her infant. The trial judge
declined to permit -- declined to permit her to offer
psychiatric testimony to mitigate to second degree. The
court of appeals reversed, indicating that evidence,
mental health evidence of the kind she wanted to offer,
was admissible to establish diminished capacity, that
is, to negate the element of premeditation and
deliberation.
Once that case was decided, there is one
direction only in Michigan law from 1973 until Carpenter
by surprise in 2001. Yes, the statute was passed in
1975, and just 3 years later in 1978, Mangiapane decided
that diminished capacity comes within the definition of
legal insanity. The phrasing in the -- in the court's
opinion is very significant and it's much more than
opposing counsel suggests. The court stated explicitly:
"We find that the -- the defense known as diminished
capacity is codified within the definition of legal
insanity."
Once that happened, then that required an
accused who wanted to raise a diminished capacity
partial defense to comply with the procedural
requirements of the new statute. From that point
forward, it was clear that diminished capacity -- and -
and these are published court of appeals decisions, so
they are binding precedent statewide in Michigan unless
or until reversed or modified by the State supreme
court, the legislature, or a constitutional amendment.
Once that happened, there is not a case,
including in Carpenter itself, where the prosecution
objected to the admissibility of diminished capacity
evidence. It was so well-established, it was beyond
question. It was so well -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think the question that
was asked was, as a bottom line at the end of the day -
MR. MOGILL: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- did anybody get
sentenced less? Did it affect the outcome? You gave a
case where a defendant was allowed to raise diminished
capacity, but was -- are there cases where the defense
was successful on the merits?
MR. MOGILL: Justice Ginsburg, I think
that's a very important question. The -- the closest I
can come, the first part of my answer is in the Griffin
case in 1989, in an order which was a dispositive order
and therefore was precedent, the Michigan Supreme Court
disposed of an application for leave to appeal by
vacating and remanding a case for an ineffective
assistance hearing because of defense counsel's failure,
inter alia, to consider a diminished capacity defense.
That order could not have occurred unless
the supreme court had determined that diminished
capacity was a valid defense. The second part -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or -- is that correct?
Wouldn't -- wouldn't the supreme court have done that if
it -- if it thought that at least -- at least it was
arguable?
MR. MOGILL: I -- I respectfully submit that
under Strickland analysis, no. If it -- if it's not an
established defense, if it's not something that would
arguably come within the Strickland framework, there
would not have been a remand. That would have been a -
a question of a lawyer trying to be creative, but it
wouldn't implicate Strickland principles.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm -- I'm a little
surprised at your answer and Justice Scalia's question
indicates the same. If the law was as well settled as
you say it was in the appellate courts, then it seems to
me certainly counsel should raise it and is arguably
deficient for not doing so. Whether or not he'll
prevail at the end of the day is something quite
different.
MR. MOGILL: Well, Justice Kennedy, I
believe that the basis for a remand in a case like this,
and this is not an unusual kind of a situation in
practice, is where the law is clear, then the remand is
to determine the factual basis for the defendant's
claim, were the facts such that a reasonably competent
attorney should have been expected to investigate and -
and raise it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You said your view
of the law was, you know, so well-established -
MR. MOGILL: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- as to be beyond
question. That is the standard under AEDPA, right?
MR. MOGILL: Well -- I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You have to be -
you have to be -- you have to be that right to prevail,
right?
MR. MOGILL: What I have to establish is
that the decision of the Michigan Court of Appeals here
was objectively unreasonable. And whether it's beyond
question, I think we certainly have objectively
unreasonable ruling for the reasons that it was
without -- not only was it well-established -- and I
want to weave into this the second part of what I'd like
to answer of Justice Ginsburg's question. I think it's
very important in understanding the question of
reversals or not what the lay of the land was, because
where you have a framework that allows a defense to be
raised and prosecutors aren't objecting, the -- the
application's going to be a factual matter for a jury to
decide.
So it's not going to be something that's
going to percolate up into appellate legal issues. It's
going to be successful sometimes, it's not going to be
successful sometimes, and there are no statistics on
that. But it doesn't -- it won't present a legal issue,
and that's in no small part why the question of, well,
what about a reversal -
JUSTICE ALITO: In Griffin -- you describe
Griffin in your brief as follows: "The court vacated,
reversed, and remanded the decision below based on,
quote, "defendant's claim that trial counsel was
ineffective for failing to explore defenses of
diminished capacity and insanity."
MR. MOGILL: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: "And insanity." So it
wasn't specifically -- wasn't limited to diminished
capacity.
MR. MOGILL: And that's why in my -
JUSTICE ALITO: It was insanity in general.
MR. MOGILL: No, it was both. The -- the
insanity defense is separate from diminished capacity,
which is a partial defense; in fact, in Respondent's
first trial, prior counsel had raised both. At retrial
I only wished to raise the diminished capacity defense.
The law recognizes the difference between
the two in Michigan. Had diminished capacity not been a
recognized defense, the court's order, I respectfully
submit, would have been worded just with respect to
insanity. There would have been no legal basis for
arguing -- or, excuse me, for including the -- the
reference to diminished capacity.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Mogill, as -- as I
understand your burden here, it's -- it's not enough to
show that Michigan law seemed to be what you -- what you
say it was; but it has to have been -
MR. MOGILL: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- what you say it was.
MR. MOGILL: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it -- there was an
evulsive change by the supreme court.
MR. MOGILL: I agree with that,
Justice Scalia. And I think that's what we have. We
have, from -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's -- it's hard to
believe that, given -- given the clear text of the
statute.
MR. MOGILL: The problem, I -- I
respectfully submit, is that nobody in Michigan until
Carpenter -- and -- and I -- it -- that sounds like an
extreme statement, but again the record is clear.
Prosecutor's weren't objecting. There is a State bar
committee on criminal jury instructions whose
responsibility it is to come up with standard jury
instructions on areas of law that are agreed upon and -
and routinely enough raised in court to warrant a
standard instruction. That committee is comprised of
judges, prosecutors, and defense attorneys. In 1989,
that committee promulgated a diminished capacity
instruction. That's how well established it is.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, if -- if a prosecutor
raised that objection knowing that the court of appeals
would -- would reverse the exclusion, right -- I mean,
it's clear what the court of appeals would have done,
right?
MR. MOGILL: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And once the court of
appeals reversed it and said the trial was infected with
that error, could -- could the defendant be retried?
MR. MOGILL: The -- what would happen -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because he's -- he's
convicted and the -- I'm sorry -- he's -- he's -
MR. MOGILL: Convicted, convicted of second
instead of first; could he be tried on first?
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right.
MR. MOGILL: No. But that's the question.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Could he be retried?
MR. MOGILL: On first, no. But -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then -- then you
would be crazy to raise it as a prosecutor.
MR. MOGILL: No. What I -- but I --
Justice Scalia, the answer to your question is -- is
encompassed by the statutory scheme which requires
advanced notice. The -- a defendant can't offer
diminished capacity evidence in the middle of trial. A
defendant has to give 30 days or whatever other time set
by the judge notice, or it had to at the time. If the
prosecutor, in any case, believed that such evidence
wasn't admissible, the prosecutor had plenty of time
prior to trial to seek an in limine ruling from the
trial court, to seek an interlocutory appeal from the
Michigan Court of Appeals.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He could get an -- an
interlocutory appeal on that?
MR. MOGILL: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. MOGILL: And -- and I will tell you the
prosecutors in Michigan are aggressive in -- in seeking
interlocutory appeals.
We have -- again, it is so well established,
there is not a contrary decision, there is not a
question raised in any opinion or any decision.
JUSTICE BREYER: How many holdings are
there?
MR. MOGILL: There are many mentions with
the -- the holdings -
JUSTICE BREYER: I take it the answer is
zero, right? I mean, I -
MR. MOGILL: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- I looked at your brief
and then I looked at their brief and they say the answer
is zero.
MR. MOGILL: Lynch is a holding.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the -- the holding is
that -- the pure holding would be if the trial court
judge says no, you cannot raise it. Okay? The
defendant is convicted and appeals.
MR. MOGILL: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And then he says to the
appellate court: They wouldn't let me raise it.
And the appellate court says: You have a
right to raise it.
MR. MOGILL: And that's exactly Lynch,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: That is Lynch. And Lynch
is what year?
MR. MOGILL: 1973.
JUSTICE BREYER: In 1973. Okay. So we have
one.
MR. MOGILL: And -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and was there any
other case in 1973 -- this is 10 years before. Was
there any other case in which the same pattern of facts
and they said the same thing as Lynch?
MR. MOGILL: I -- I'm not aware -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but we -- we have Lynch
on one side. Is there any case -- this is an
intermediate appeals court -- is there any case in which
the defendant says, I would like to raise it, the
judge says no, convicted, appeal, and the intermediate
court of appeals says: Defendant, you are wrong?
MR. MOGILL: The answer to your question,
Justice Breyer, is there is no such case. And the
reason -
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. And so all this
period from 1973 until 1995 or whatever -
MR. MOGILL: '93 was the offense.
JUSTICE BREYER: Carpenter.
MR. MOGILL: No, 2001 was Carpenter -
JUSTICE BREYER: 2001. All right.
MR. MOGILL: The offense was '93.
JUSTICE BREYER: There is exactly one case
on point which does favor you, and there are zero cases
that favor them; is that right?
MR. MOGILL: If you talk holding only and if
you discount Mangiapane.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, Mangiapane was a -- a
lot of words, but the holding was not notice; isn't that
right?
MR. MOGILL: The holding was he didn't -
but there was no reason for the court -
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MR. MOGILL: -- to reach that
question unless diminished capacity exists.
JUSTICE BREYER: So we've got one.
That's -- I'm trying to find out what the state of the
art.
MR. MOGILL: Thank you.
JUSTICE BREYER: The state of the art is one
for you, zero for them.
MR. MOGILL: If I can supplement that,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. MOGILL: One of the things -- one of the
points this Court looked to in Rogers was how many times
the year-and-a-day rule had been "mentioned," and
that -- this is -- that's this Court's word -- in
Tennessee decisions. And so one of the things we did,
and that's the addendum in our red brief, is look at how
many times there are mentions -- all of which are
favorable, not one of which raises even a question, of
diminished capacity in Michigan. And that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was that -- how often was
it mentioned in intermediate court opinions?
MR. MOGILL: We have 4 mentions in the
Michigan Supreme Court and 33 in the Michigan Court of
Appeals between 1975 and 1993, and we have over 100 -
about 100 -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Four mentions in the
supreme court that say what?
MR. MOGILL: Well, Griffin is one of them.
And then you have -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. MOGILL: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Have we ever held that a
State law has been determined to be X simply because
intermediate State courts have uniformly held it to be
X? Never mind assumed it to be X; have held it to be X?
MR. MOGILL: I don't know of a particular
case.
But to answer your question, Justice Scalia,
the law in Michigan is clear, as stated by the Michigan
Supreme Court, that a published court of appeals
decision is precedentially binding statewide unless and
until reversed by the Supreme Court. So the fact
that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't mean it's right.
MR. MOGILL: No. But in terms of it -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You have to show it's
right.
MR. MOGILL: No, I have to show that it is
the law of the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That it's the law.
MR. MOGILL: I have to show that it is the
law of the State. And it was the law of the State from
1973 forward.
And I would like to supplement that, if I
might.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could you -- I'm
sorry. Go ahead.
MR. MOGILL: When -- when Lynch was decided,
it wasn't acting on something new. The court of appeals
opinion indicates that what we're doing is nothing novel
because the diminished -- the right to present
diminished capacity evidence to rebut an -- the elements
of premeditation and deliberation, grows out of a
100-year history in Michigan.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but the
Lynch -- the Lynch case was 2 years before the Michigan
legislature adopted -
MR. MOGILL: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- the statute that
we are dealing with here, right?
MR. MOGILL: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that's where you
are putting, if not all of your eggs, most of your eggs,
right?
MR. MOGILL: No, I'm -- that -- that is -
that's an egg, and I think I've got a pretty full
basket.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's the -
that's the whole case. The whole -- the whole point is
that the law made that moot because the law under
Michigan did not specify diminished capacity and it's a
code State, so you only get what they specified.
MR. MOGILL: I disagree with that statement
by brother counsel. The -- and that's why I quoted
Article 3, Section 7.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you'll at
least -- well, maybe not. I mean, would -- would you
acknowledge that the force of Lynch was arguably
diminished by the fact that Michigan passed a statute
that did not mention the diminished capacity defense 2
years after it?
MR. MOGILL: I would if the facts of the
subsequent litigation supported that interpretation of
the statute. To the contrary, every case -- Mangiapane
wasn't -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm talking about
Lynch.
JUSTICE BREYER: There were no others, and
now I've reduced your one to nothing to like .01 to
nothing, because it favors you, Lynch, yes, as the Chief
Justice just pointed out, and now you've already said
there were no other cases.
MR. MOGILL: No other holdings. But we have
many, many mentions, we have on-the-ground consistent
reliance by prosecutors, defense attorneys, and judges.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's -- that's your
whole point, isn't it?
MR. MOGILL: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You can't prove a
negative, because if everybody accepts after Mangiapane
that the defense exists then trial courts are not going
to be excluding it on the basis that the statute
excludes it.
MR. MOGILL: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the whole point
you are making.
MR. MOGILL: And which gets me to -- to
Rogers, and -- and we turn to the questions of
fundamental fairness.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have any -- is
there any evidence of a trial court holding an
exclusion?
MR. MOGILL: There is nothing.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or even suggesting one?
MR. MOGILL: It -- it is so extreme, Justice
Sotomayor, that even in Carpenter itself, the
prosecution did not contest the admissibility of
diminished capacity evidence as a trial court -
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's because -
everybody agrees with you, I think -- I agree with you
on this anyway. I agree the bar puts it in the
instructions, and if the bar puts it in the
instructions, people tend to follow it. That's true.
So it's not surprising that a lot of people tend to
follow it.
But as far as court decisions are concerned,
we have no -- what I'm trying to think of is a
pre-statute. I give you a little credit on that.
That's Lynch. Pre-statute, and we have what I might
sort of exaggeratedly refer to as the great mentioner.
We've noticed the great mentioner is often wrong, and -
and here, even though there are judicial mentioners,
they get something. I don't know how much in the scale
to -- to give them.
MR. MOGILL: Well, with all due respect, the
standard that this Court set in Rogers is whether the -
the decision of Carpenter, in this case, would have been
unforeseeable and indefensible by reference to the law
as previously expressed so that it could be applied
retroactively.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can you think of a Federal
case where -- I see what we have. I'm now adding up the
something for Lynch, the something for the bar, which is
a -- which is a something, and -- and then the fact that
some courts have quite, not surprisingly, tended to
follow it and there were others that mentioned it
favorably, but not the Michigan Supreme Court.
MR. MOGILL: No, the Michigan Supreme Court
did mention it favorably as well.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So -- so we've got
that. Now, actually, that Kentucky case, was it?
Tennessee?
MR. MOGILL: Rogers?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, Rogers. That went
against you.
MR. MOGILL: I think the principle that the
Court established there was very much -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But can you
think of any Federal precedent on this issue that's come
even close to that being sufficient? What's your best?
MR. MOGILL: I think the closest point, and
it's important, and it goes, Justice Scalia, to respond
to your point about lower court -- reliance on lower
court opinions, is in Lanier, when the question
concerned what's the scope of the statute that's at
issue here. And this Court very explicitly stated that
its permissible for the world outside of court to look
at lower court decisions, court of appeals decisions, in
terms of what had been reasonably expressed. That's
consistent -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If you -- if you prevail
here, it may well change the dynamic for State supreme
courts. State supreme courts, much like us, they wait
until courts of appeals have issued their opinions.
They wait to see how the practical application of those
works insofar as of the fairness of the trial. They
wait to see about scholarly commentaries, and then
they -- and then they take the case.
If you prevail, State supreme courts are -
are going to say, you know, if we don't take this case,
even if though it's -- does not present the issue as
clearly as some other case might, we don't rush in, then
we're going to be foreclosed. I think you're proposing
a -- a dynamic which makes the Federal courts intrude on
the way in which State courts choose to develop their
law.
MR. MOGILL: Justice Kennedy, thank you for
that question, but I respectfully disagree. The relief
we are requesting here is simply that while the Michigan
Supreme Court was entirely free to interpret this
statute any way it wanted to prospectively, so long as
it didn't conflict with some other decision of this
Court, the question is: What about applying it
retroactively? And this Court in Bouie and Rogers has
set out clear principles for when a court that wants to
reverse ground can do that or not, consistent with
fundamental fairness, principles of notice,
foreseeability, et cetera, all of which go in our
direction here.
An -- an interesting contrast, and I think a
useful contrast -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what is the
unfairness -
MR. MOGILL: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the unfairness here?
Do you think there's a reliance?
MR. MOGILL: There's not a reliance, nor is
that an element -
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the -- so what is
the unfairness here?
MR. MOGILL: In both -- in both Bouie and
Rogers, this Court made it clear that reliance is not an
issue. The unfairness, and that's a very important
point, Justice Alito, is that by eliminating the right
to present this category of evidence, the mental health
evidence that would show, if accepted by a jury, that
the Respondent was guilty of second-degree murder
instead of first-degree murder, what the court was doing
was expanding the -- the scope of premeditation and
deliberation; they were aggravating the offense. That
is a fundamental unfairness.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this -- the case
is -- is very different from Bouie which you -- which
you rely on. In -- in Bouie, it was the question of a
rule that is governing conduct. People come on to
premises; they have no reason to think that they are
committing an offense if they don't leave when somebody
asks them to if they came onto the premise lawfully. So
what the Court said in Bouie was that this is a
regulation of primary conduct, and at the time these
people acted, they had no reason to believe that what
they did was unlawful. That's quite a different -
MR. MOGILL: Yeah, I agree with that,
Justice Ginsburg, except that at footnote 5 in Bouie,
this Court explicitly rejected the notion that
subjective reliance by the accused is -- is even an
aspect of the test for determining -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It -- it isn't subjective
reliance, it's -- it's what was the law.
MR. MOGILL: And -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Court said that the
State supreme court interpretation of the statute was
quite a surprise.
MR. MOGILL: Yes. And what the Court did in
both Bouie and in Rogers was look at the underlying
State law. In Bouie, the Court looked at the history of
South Carolina law regarding trespass and found that
until a year and a half later, it hadn't been construed
to apply to a failure to leave as opposed to an entry.
In Rogers, the Court surveyed the very -- a very sparse
Tennessee authority on the year and a day rule.
That same analysis here will -- must lead to
a conclusion that all of the law in Michigan -- and
again, there are minimal holdings for the reasons
Justice Sotomayor indicated -- the minimal holdings, but
all the mentions and the holding go in the direction of
this existed. It was relied on, it wasn't contested -
JUSTICE ALITO: I -- I don't see how the
question can be whether there was a change in Michigan
law, because we can't second-guess the Michigan Supreme
Court about what Michigan law was. Michigan law is
whatever the State supreme court says it was. We might
agree, we might disagree. So I think we have to start
from the proposition that the law didn't change, because
that's what the Michigan Supreme Court said.
So there must be some other ex post facto
principle that applies when there's a certain type of
unfairness. And I wonder if you could articulate what
that principle is.
MR. MOGILL: I would be happy to,
Justice Alito, but first I want to address your point
about having to rely on Michigan Supreme Court's
determination of Michigan law, because this Court has
made it very clear that you can't let a State court
relabel something in a way that avoids Federal
constitutional review. Chief Justice Rehnquist spoke to
that point in Collins v. Youngblood. Justice Kennedy,
you spoke to that in your dissent in Clark.
Justice Scalia, in your dissent in Rogers, you spoke to
the point, I think, in an apt phrasing, that this Court
will rely on a State court's reasonable determination of
State law. I -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So two -- two
dissents is what you're relying on?
MR. MOGILL: I'm sorry? No. The majority
-- the opinion of the Court in Collins, but it's also a
well-established principle, and I also wanted to note
that the two other mentions, but it's not a principle
that's been in dispute. The -- the Court's analysis in
both Bouie and Rogers also supports what I'm saying,
because the Court independently looked at South Carolina
law in Bouie. The Court independently looked at
Tennessee law in Rogers and -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I think you're -- what
you're arguing is that under certain -- in evaluating
certain constitutional claims, the -- the question of
what State law is is not dispositive. I don't think
you're arguing that a Federal court has a right to tell
a State court what State law is.
MR. MOGILL: This Court certainly does not
have a right to tell the Michigan Supreme Court going
forward what State law is with respect to diminished
capacity. But -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I mean, suppose this
were a diversity case. Can -- can a Federal court say,
you know, we -- we think that the -- the decisions of
the intermediate State supreme court were correct and
this new decision by the State supreme court is
incorrect, so we're not going to follow that?
MR. MOGILL: No. But this is not -- that's
not this case. This case involves reliance -
JUSTICE ALITO: It's not -- it's not this
case, because there, you're trying to figure out what
State law is. Here you're applying a constitutional
principle.
MR. MOGILL: We're trying -- we're applying
a constitutional principle -
JUSTICE ALITO: So what is that -- that gets
me to the second part of my question.
MR. MOGILL: Yes, exactly.
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the -- the
constitutional principle that doesn't depend on what
State law was?
MR. MOGILL: The constitutional principle is
that Respondent had a right to present a defense that
existed at the time of his offense, unless it was
clearly unforeseeable -- excuse me -- unless it was
unforeseeable and -- and indefensible by reference to
law that had been expressed prior to the time of the
conduct, that that law might change, which we don't have
here.
And Justice Breyer, I think that the
phrasing also goes to respond to your question. The -
the formulation in -- in Rogers that confines looking to
the law as of the time that the conduct occurred, and -
and even if you go forward, there was nothing to suggest
an alternate interpretation of the statute, a
questioning opinion, nothing that would suggest that the
law in Michigan was about to change.
We also have the fact that, unlike the
year-and-a-day rule, diminished capacity as -- as a
doctrine is well-supported and increasingly supported by
medical and mental health evidence. It's the -- the
exact opposite of the year-and-a-day rule in that
regard.
It also furthers -
JUSTICE ALITO: This is -- this is the due
process issue, right?
MR. MOGILL: It's -- that's exactly -
JUSTICE ALITO: So why is it unfair? Why is
there an entitlement under due process to assert what
appears under the law of the State's intermediate court
decisions to be a valid defense, but is later determined
never to have been or not to have been at the time a
valid defense?
What is the unfairness involved there?
MR. MOGILL: The unfairness is because it
was sufficiently well-established, it was thoroughly
well-established as a matter of Michigan law, so
Respondent and everybody else in Michigan had a right to
rely on it. In fact, if this Court were to reverse the
Sixth Circuit, Respondent would be the only person in
Michigan charged with a crime prior to Carpenter who
would not be allowed to present a diminished capacity
defense at a fair trial. That's how extreme the
violation was.
JUSTICE BREYER: The alternative is you are
going to allow the bar associations, helpful as they
are, by writing instructions to determine issues that
courts themselves have never determined, or at least not
authoritative supreme courts. And that's a worrying
matter where you are trying to create coherent systems
of law.
MR. MOGILL: If I can briefly -- quickly
respond, Justice Breyer, the -- I disagree that we're -
that I'm in any way suggesting turning anything over to
the Bar Association. The fact of that instruction is I
think strong evidence of the reasonableness of reliance
of the bench and bar in Michigan, but not looking to
turn authority over to anybody.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. MOGILL: Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Bursch, you have
13 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. BURSCH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BURSCH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
I -- I think we actually have a lot of areas
of agreement after 45 minutes of oral argument.
Number one, Justice Breyer, is that there
really is only one case in Michigan that reaches the
holding that Mr. Carpenter would like that you can
assert this defense, and that was the Lynch case in
1973, which preceded the 1975 statute.
So under well-established Michigan law,
again, you know, In re Lamphier, Reese, which was their
2012 decision reapplying In re Lamphier, that code
occupies the field, and at that point, the common law
decision no longer existed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think he contested that.
I think he never went further into it, but he seemed to
disagree with the proposition that where there is a
Michigan statute it can't be supplemented by the common
law.
MR. BURSCH: I did not hear him say that.
And if you go back and you read Reese and In re
Lamphier, I don't know how anyone could possibly
disagree with that. There are certainly areas -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I hate just to
interrupt you.
MR. BURSCH: Sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He did challenge my
premise when I presented that to him.
MR. BURSCH: Okay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So I do think he
disagrees with it.
MR. BURSCH: Well, then I disagree with
that. If you look at In re Lamphier and Reese, it's
well-settled in Michigan that when the Michigan
legislature speaks to a particular subject matter in
criminal law that the code controls and the common law
cannot supplement it.
The words of the Michigan Supreme Court in
Reese itself were: "The courts have no power to add an
affirmative defense that the legislature did not
create."
And -- and I really don't think there can be
a dispute about that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is this -- is this a one
of a kind, in that, whatever the law was, it's clear
from 2001 on? Are -- are there any other people who
were similarly situated, who committed a crime before
2001 but were tried after?
MR. BURSCH: I'm -- I'm not aware of any,
Justice Ginsburg, and -- and the reason for that -- that
quirk is because his habeas process by coincidence
happened to take such a long time. It's pretty rare
that we're up here on a case where the murder actually
took place 20 years ago and the trial is shortly after
that.
But -- but quirks in how long litigation
happens don't determine whether the people get the
benefit of changes in law or not. What matters is the
standard that this Court applied in Rogers and Bouie,
was the change -- if there was a change -- indefensible
and not expected.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But was there anyone prior
to 2001 who couldn't raise a defense like this, who was
precluded from doing so because a court thought, oh, you
know, the -- the statute really clears the field, and -
and this defense is not available?
Was it -- can you point to anything?
MR. BURSCH: We can't point to anything,
just like they can't point to anything.
You've got a -- you know, in 1975 -
JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess they can point to
just a lot of people who were raising this defense.
MR. BURSCH: Right. And they can point to
cases that assume without deciding that the defense
might exist. And then it wasn't until 2001, when the
Michigan Supreme Court became the first Michigan court
to look at it -- and I forget now who mentioned this; I
think it was Justice Kennedy -- that the Michigan
Supreme Court did what this Court often does: It waited
for the right case to present itself. And when it did,
it applied the plain statutory language in accordance
with Michigan interpretive law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why -- why was it -
JUSTICE KAGAN: This is -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- why was it the right
case? The parties didn't even raise it, did they?
MR. BURSCH: Well, you know, it could be
because the Michigan Supreme Court thought, you know,
there's enough confusion, because of the mentions in the
lower court, that it's time that -- that we address
this.
I don't know why the Michigan Supreme Court
took it up in Carpenter. What I do know is that
fair-minded jurists, which is the habeas standard, could
agree that Carpenter was neither indefensible nor
unexpected. And, you know, it's not a head-counting
business, but I would note that the Michigan Court of
Appeals here was unanimous.
Previously, the Michigan Court of Appeals in
Talton, decided the year after Carpenter, reached the
exact same conclusion with respect to the due process
question. So we've got six Michigan appellate judges
looking at this.
You know, going back to -- to what the
Michigan law said, I -- I also heard my friend mention
the Griffin case. This is the three-paragraph order
where they -- they remand for ineffective assistance.
Well, Griffin is one of the cases that the
Michigan Supreme Court discusses in Carpenter, and in
the very next sentence, the Supreme Court says:
"However, we have never specifically authorized the
defense's use in Michigan courts."
You know, it just wasn't there.
What you have are these mentions, and then,
as Justice Breyer mentioned, he's got jury instructions
which are promulgated by the State bar, not the State
supreme court, or by any court for that matter. And
what you have to ask yourself, is it objectively
unreasonable, is it beyond any possibility of
fair-minded disagreement that a Michigan Court of
Appeals panel could conclude that Carpenter was both
indefensible and unexpected.
And -
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you have any idea, a
rough estimate, how many cases there were between, say,
'75 and '93 where this defense was raised?
MR. BURSCH: Well, all we have are the
mentions in the appellate courts.
JUSTICE BREYER: You do know about how many?
About -
MR. BURSCH: About 37, I believe. It was
four Michigan Supreme Court opinions and 33 Court of
Appeals. So it was 37.
Now, of those the Michigan Supreme Court
itself said their four decisions didn't say one way or
the other. Of the other 33, 32 of them weren't even
binding in other Michigan Court of Appeals panels. As
we explained in our brief, the Michigan Court of Appeals
wasn't bound to follow any panel decision prior to
November 1st, 1990. So those weren't even binding on
the court of appeals itself.
If you are thinking about what's firmly
established, you know, there were no roots at all to
these mentions. It would be like walking past your
neighbor's yard, and if there is an oak tree there, you
expect it to be there the next day. You know, but if
there is a small weed, you expect it to be pulled up and
rooted out.
And that's exactly what happened here when
the Michigan Supreme Court finally addressed the
question.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you rely on Reese as
establishing the principle that you cannot supplement
the defenses in a criminal statute, but Reese was a 2012
case.
MR. BURSCH: Right. I mentioned Reese
because it's the most recent application. It cites In
re Lamphier, which is an 1886 decision, which itself
references the 1810 Territorial Act which abolished
common law criminal principles -- if you have the
statute -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you have something like
in the middle?
(Laughter.)
MR. BURSCH: There are many cases in the
middle. There is at least a 1990 case, although I can't
recall the name. If you just key cite or shepherdize In
re Lamphier, you -- you will find scores of cases that
rely on this proposition.
It's -- it's not in dispute.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Then you
were arguing that Lynch was wrong to begin with, because
what you are arguing is that it created a common law
defense that the courts say you can't under Michigan
law.
MR. BURSCH: Right. Exactly. You've got
Lynch, which was the common law.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, but you're
saying to me it was wrongly decided under this general
Michigan -
MR. BURSCH: Oh, no, no, no.
To be perfectly clear, what In re Lamphier
and Reese and everything else say is that when the
legislature has spoken to a particular area, then the
courts cannot supplement. They had never spoken about
mental capacity defenses prior to 1975, and so the slate
was free for the courts to do what they wanted.
So there's nothing wrong with Lynch in '73.
The problem is continuing to assume that there was a
defense that wasn't in the '75 statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you were
representing a defendant in this position, you certainly
would have raised the diminished capacity defense prior
to Carpenter, wouldn't you?
MR. BURSCH: Undoubtedly. But I don't think
it means that fair-minded jurists could not possibly
conclude that Carpenter was both indefensible and not
expected.
JUSTICE KAGAN: And if you were a
prosecutor, you would not have objected to that defense,
would you have?
MR. BURSCH: Well, I don't know. If I was a
prosecutor, I would have looked at the plain language of
the statute -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you have any -
MR. BURSCH: -- and I probably would have -
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- have any reason to think
that any prosecutor ever objected to such a defense?
MR. BURSCH: I don't know one way or the
other. We -- we just don't have the data for that.
So ultimately, what we are talking about
here -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume you'd need a case
in which the prosecutor was pretty, pretty clear that a
diminished capacity defense would prevail. Otherwise,
it wouldn't -- the game wouldn't be worth the camel,
right?
MR. BURSCH: That's exactly right.
JUSTICE BREYER: But what's in the 37 cases
then? I -- they got up there. I assume the defendant
must have brought them. They must have brought them.
He must have wanted to -- to raise the defense and
somebody said no.
MR. BURSCH: No, I don't believe that there
was a single case in those 37 where someone tried to
raise the defense and the court said no. Nor was there
a case where the prosecutor said you can't raise the
defense and the court said yes. It was just a number of
cases. And, you know, Mangiapane is really the paradigm
example.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah.
MR. BURSCH: But the question was, did they
give notice? If the defense exists, is it part of the
statute? And -- and all the Michigan courts agree that
that has to be the case. But it's not till Carpenter
where the court finally says, is it part of the statute
and says no.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Just to go back to
Justice Breyer's question. I mean, there may be no way
you can answer this, but are we talking about, you know,
do five people a year -- did five people a year raise
this or -- or 20 or 100? I mean, what kind of numbers?
MR. BURSCH: You know, all we've got are the
appellate decisions referencing it.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Right.
MR. BURSCH: So if we've got 37 cases -
JUSTICE KAGAN: You can't really tell
because nobody was objecting to anything -
MR. BURSCH: Correct.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- right?
MR. BURSCH: So you've got 37 cases over a
course of 18 years, '75 to -- to '93. Now, that -- that
tells us maybe two cases a year in a system that
processes thousands of criminal cases.
You know, there was nothing here that would
make the Supreme Court's application of the plain
language so indefensible, so unexpected that no
reasonable jurist could possibly have reached the same
conclusion as now two unanimous Michigan Court of
Appeals panels have.
I wanted to touch briefly on the unfairness
point. And Justice Ginsburg, I -- I believe brought up
Bouie. And Bouie is really the perfect analogy,
because, again, under the AEDPA standard, it's
Lancaster's burden to show that the court of appeals
decision here was contrary to our misapplication. And,
to the contrary, it was the exact application of Bouie.
In Bouie, you had a clear statute that was
very narrow, and the State court expanded it in a very
unexpected way. And this Court found that was
indefensible and unexpected.
The exact opposite happened here. You had
the Michigan Supreme Court applying very narrow
statutory language exactly the way it was written in
accord with 200 years of interpretive principles.
So -- so really, the problem here is not any
unfairness, the problem is the Sixth Circuit yet again
not applying habeas deference under the statute or this
Court's precedent and disregarding another Michigan
State court decision where reasonable jurists could have
reached different conclusions on this.
It's not our burden to -- to demonstrate
what the law was or wasn't. All we have to show is that
a reasonable jurist could have reached the conclusion
the Michigan Court of Appeals did here, and there
doesn't appear to be any question that's the case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You want us to say "yet
again" when we write our opinion?
MR. BURSCH: Yes, Justice Scalia.
If there are no further questions, thank you
very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:01 a.m., the case in the
the above-entitled matter was submitted.)
58:1 22:21 23:18 39:20 44:16,18 authoritative
53:21 affirmative 4:3 29:11,15 30:21 April 1:9 authority 42:3
59:7 aggravating anybody 22:14 area 4:9 19:23 authorized 51:23
aggressive 29:2 anyway 36:23 areas 27:9 47:15 7:14 10:23 50:3
58:12 51:7 56:21 5:12,15 10:16 arguing 26:10
35:5
20:10
39:1 51:10,11 art 31:21,23 bar 27:6 36:23
52:8,20,24,25 Article 35:2 36:24 37:20
43:21 53:3 57:22 58:2 articulate 42:20 46:20 47:4,6
58:22 aside 5:6 52:3
46:2 appear 58:23 asked 4:25 22:12 based 5:25 6:3,3
17:5 49:1
22:16 appellate 6:14 47:20 basket 34:19
7:4 11:10 23:20 assertion 20:8 Batson 18:17
51:2
22:24 39:2 associations 18:8 47:13
53:12
36:19
23:11 applied 3:21 assumed 5:18 believed 28:17
43:16 37:16 49:21 6:16 10:24 believes 12:11
24:11,19 13:12,21 14:1 47:19 51:5,7,12 49:22 codified 16:23
14:13,18,22 51:21 52:8 55:6 changed 5:3 21:20
53:2 48:16,19 49:11 6:6,6,8 7:2,19 49:20 49:13
39:21 56:5,11,19 57:5 21:11 22:6,16 18:9 24:8,11,14 27:8 38:11 41:2
41:1,6 57:8,11,13 59:1 22:22,25 24:1 33:23 34:7,11 comes 9:20
BURT 1:6 28:17 30:11,12 34:14,20 35:3 10:25 21:15
49:21 business 51:9 30:16,17,22 35:13,17 43:3 comfortable
58:4,5 31:6 33:4 34:8 43:10 47:8,10 10:13
camel 56:3 39:5,7,9 40:24 choose 39:12 committed 49:9
capacity 4:3,6,13 44:7,13,13,15 Circuit 3:10,25 committee 27:7
31:2,4 5:1,6,8,9,16 6:1 47:18,20 49:15 46:14 58:14 27:11,13
6:21,23,25 8:7 50:17,23 51:18 cite 15:12 54:4 committing 41:4
32:1,2 10:6,20 11:3,12 53:17 54:3 cites 53:19 common 4:18,24
36:21 12:12 13:5,7 55:25 56:12,14 claim 24:5 25:16 5:5 6:8,12 7:13
38:2,6,10 14:12,17 15:5 56:22 58:23 claiming 12:7 7:24 9:15 14:16
46:19 47:2 16:20 17:15 59:5,6 claims 43:23 15:6 19:24 20:4
52:2,11 18:13,24,25 cases 5:18 6:12 Clark 43:5 47:25 48:5,23
56:6,18 19:7 20:5,11,19 11:14 16:25 clear 12:8,8 53:22 54:10,14
29:14,15 22:17 23:2,5 51:20 52:12 19:22 22:1 24:3 comprehensive
52:25 25:18,22 26:1,4 54:2,5 56:6,16 26:25 27:5,18 4:2 5:7
28:14 31:18 category 15:2 40:14 43:1 49:7 concede 16:9
54:23 55:5 56:2 certainly 16:7 39:9 45:4 conclude 3:18
41:24 43:18 cetera 39:25 38:12 12:17 14:20
3:5,6,8 4:16 3:24 6:18 11:25 48:14 22:20 38:13 57:21 58:21
6:8 7:10 17:20 18:22 change 8:5,6 code 4:7 5:17 conclusions
3:13,13,23 5:4 58:10,17,22 33:25 51:12 50:11 52:13
6:19,20 7:4,7,7 6:14 8:22 10:7 deciding 17:1 55:20 56:2,9,13
39:23 12:1,8,9,20,20 46:22,23 49:1 14:6 17:20,24 defense's 51:24
14:2,5 15:22,25 54:11,22,24 25:15 29:5,6 14:6
43:3,23 18:1,2,3,10,20 court's 3:14,19 39:19 44:10 7:22 11:24
18:25 19:11,15 8:18,24 21:16 47:24 48:1 53:1 17:23 58:15
21:6,18 22:2,5 26:7 32:6 42:24 53:20 58:3,17 deficient 23:22
27:18,21 28:20 create 46:24 44:8 46:5 52:22 12:11 13:4
29:25 30:17,20 created 54:10 declined 21:4,4 degree 21:5
18:1 33:7,7,9 34:1 crime 20:23,24 22:16 27:23 34:5 40:22
35:11 58:3 36:13,20 37:3 46:15 49:9 28:13,15 29:21 demonstrate
37:13,24,25 criminal 4:9,19 30:18,20 55:4 58:19
29:21 40:14,20 41:6 crucial 4:6 defense 4:3,13 described 19:22
41:12,18,19,21 curious 14:19 5:6,12,19 6:1 determination
11:17,21 42:14,17,25 10:22,23 11:12 determine 24:4
23:6 44:9 43:19,25 44:1,2 D 3:1 13:7,9 14:17 determined 23:4
44:3,7,9,10 data 55:22 16:22 17:16 32:25 46:5,22
18:5 20:2 50:13,16,16,25 42:3 53:8 21:19,24 22:17 develop 39:12
23:21 51:2,4,9,11,21 days 28:15 23:1,2,5,12 dicta 5:20
26:3 35:1 51:22 52:4,4,7 dealing 34:12 25:2 26:1,2,4,7 difference 26:5
59:4 52:19,19,21,24 death 21:3 27:12 35:7,22 different 20:3
5:1,5,8,9 dotted 15:18 2:6,9 20:6 42:9 45:3 3:18 51:6 52:7
6:1,21,23 due 7:16 19:17 establish 21:8 48:1 55:8
8:7 10:5 20:1 37:12 24:17 exists 13:9 31:18 far 37:3
11:3,11 45:24 46:3 established 3:15 36:3 56:20 favor 31:7,8
13:5 51:13 5:7 12:3 17:19 exoneration 5:24 favorable 32:10
15:4 dynamic 38:24 20:5 23:12 expanded 58:6 favorably 37:24
17:15 39:11 27:14 29:4 38:9 expanding 40:21 38:1
D.C 1:8 53:5 expect 15:21 favors 35:17
20:5,10,19 establishing 53:8,9 Federal 3:12
21:8,15 E 53:15 expectation 16:7 8:22 37:18
22:1,8 E 2:1 3:1,1 estimate 52:12 expected 11:25 38:11 39:11
23:2,4 easier 7:19 9:11 et 39:25 14:6 24:6 49:23 43:2,25 44:7
26:1,4 10:8 evaluating 43:22 55:10 field 47:25 50:2
27:13 easiest 9:25 everybody 8:20 explained 52:25 figure 44:15
31:18 easy 9:7 15:14 36:2,22 46:12 explicitly 6:20 fill 6:5
34:3,4,23 effect 4:22 8:25 evidence 18:13 21:18 38:18 finally 6:19 53:12
36:20 19:11 21:6,7 22:9 41:12 56:23
45:18 egg 34:18 28:14,17 34:4 explore 25:17 find 17:18 21:19
55:5 56:2 eggs 34:15,15 36:13,20 40:17 express 18:24 31:20 54:5
42:8 17:20 47:5 38:21 45:6 11:17
39:15 40:10 evolves 9:16 extent 16:21 17:25
47:2 48:4 elements 18:14 evulsive 26:20 extreme 3:16 firmly 20:5,8
34:4 ex 42:18 27:5 36:17 53:4
52:7 40:16 45:21 51:13 7:20 8:17 12:25
28:12 exaggeratedly 46:13 47:4 first-degree
54:7 39:17 example 10:10 facts 24:5 30:12 40:20
entry 42:1 excludes 36:5 factual 24:4 25:4 follow 9:8 15:21
45:19 27:23 26:10 45:4 fairly 14:15,25 follows 25:14
34:2 especially 9:19 exist 10:24 50:12 39:3,24 force 35:5
50:1 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 existed 5:19 6:16 fair-minded 3:16 forcefully 9:2
12:15 13:6 hearing 23:1 45:19 12:3 35:10
56:25 helpful 46:20 45:5 49:22 51:7 interpretive 3:22
44:4 going 17:7 25:4,6 high 11:24 58:8 58:12
25:7,8,8 36:3 history 7:13 14:4 independently interrupt 48:12
58:7 46:20 51:16 41:23 Indiana 9:1 investigate 24:6
great 19:19 37:7 holding 8:9 9:8 indicates 14:16 involves 44:13
Griffin 22:21 20:22,23 29:17 indicating 21:6 isolated 6:7
39:24 guide 17:11 holds 3:12 infected 27:22 issues 25:7 46:21
guilty 15:5 17:17 hypothetical insane 15:5
21:16,21 25:18 J 1:15 2:3,9 3:6
habeas 3:10 7:21 idea 52:11 insofar 39:3 JOHN 1:15 2:3,9
13:3 14:10 instruction 27:11 judge 21:3 28:16
15:15 21:22 22:6 24:25 38:14 intent 18:24 judicial 17:6 37:9
20:9 49:14 53:11 40:15 inter 23:2 judiciary 6:24
54:16 58:9 impute 17:7,9 interested 15:11 jurisdiction 4:8
10:15,18 happy 42:22 incidentally interim 7:6 58:21
11:7,9 hard 26:24 11:16 interlocutory jurists 51:6 55:8
Harrington 3:12 include 10:5 28:20,23 29:3 58:17
41:11,15 hate 48:11 14:12 intermediate 7:4 jury 25:4 27:7,8
49:6,12 head-counting includes 12:12 7:7 30:17,19 40:18 52:2
57:24 51:8 including 22:7 32:13 33:1 44:9 Justice 3:3,8
10:15 54:15 55:3,11 ks 12:23 46:4,11,25 lot 19:9 31:12
11:7,9 55:17,19,25 47:22,25 48:6 37:1 47:15 50:9
13:11 56:6,18,25 57:1 L 48:23,23 49:7 lower 38:15,15
57:7,9,12,24 lack 6:24 49:20 50:19 38:20 51:2
58:24 59:1,4 Lake 1:17 51:17 53:22 Lynch 21:1,1
18:5,9 Lamphere 15:12 54:10,12,14 29:17 30:2,4,4
20:7 K Lamphier 47:23 58:20 30:13,15 33:25
Kagan 9:9,13,24 47:24 48:9,20 lawfully 41:5 34:8,8 35:5,14
22:11 15:15 49:24 53:20 54:5,19 lawyer 23:15 35:17 37:6,20
23:6 50:8,21 53:24 Lancaster 1:6 lay 25:1 47:20 54:9,14
55:11,17,19 3:4 layer 7:21 17:22 54:25
56:25 57:7,9,12 Lancaster's lead 42:4
Kennedy 6:2,9 16:15 58:2 leave 22:24 41:4 M
14:9,13,15,19 land 25:1 42:1 M 1:17 2:6 18:7
27:15,21 23:17,25 38:23 language 3:21 left 5:8 majority 43:12
28:4,6,8 39:14 43:4 5:20 11:15 12:2 legal 12:11,18 making 36:8
50:15 13:2 14:7,25 21:16,20 25:7 malfunction 3:17
KENNETH 1:17 17:10 50:18 25:10 26:9 Mangiapane
30:3,4,7 2:6 18:7 55:15 57:19 legislature 4:2 5:15,18 11:1
Kentucky 38:3 58:11 4:12 6:9 22:5 12:9 13:1 21:14
key 54:4 Lanier 38:16 34:9 48:22 49:2 31:10,11 35:11
32:1,2 kill 16:18 Lansing 1:16 54:21 36:2 56:16
killed 16:16 Laughter 54:1 lens 11:24 matter 1:11 4:20
killing 17:13 law 4:9,18,18,21 light 14:3 5:5 16:2 18:11
34:7,11 kind 15:1 17:1,19 4:24,25 5:5 6:8 limine 28:19 25:4 46:11,24
35:3 21:7 24:2 49:7 6:12 7:5,8,9,13 limited 25:21 48:22 52:4 59:7
57:4 7:24 8:10,12,13 LINDA 1:3 matters 49:20
King 16:16 8:14 9:16 10:6 line 22:12 mean 6:5 9:14
37:18 knew 17:13 10:11 12:19 litigation 35:10 15:17,20,20,20
know 5:10 12:21 14:16 15:1,6,18 49:18 15:21 27:17
39:14 13:8 14:19,24 15:22,25 16:8 little 12:6 15:8 29:12 33:11
15:2,21 16:2,3 16:17,23 17:10 23:17 37:5 35:4 44:6 57:1
41:11,15 16:14,18,24,25 19:20,24 20:2,4 long 39:18 49:14 57:4
42:7,10 17:23 19:25 20:4 21:12 49:18 meaning 13:3
43:3,4,6 24:9 33:3 37:10 23:19 24:3,9 longer 48:1 means 4:8 9:18
44:6 39:7 44:8 47:23 26:5,14 27:9 look 6:15,20 13:2 9:20,21 17:12
48:9 50:2,7,24 32:25 33:6,16 15:1 32:8 38:19 55:8
46:2,19 50:25 51:4,5,8 33:17,19,19 41:22 48:20 meant 7:25 8:7
51:16,25 52:16 34:22,22 37:15 50:14 medical 45:20
48:2,11 53:5,8 55:14,21 39:13 41:16,23 looked 16:19 mental 4:3,4,4
49:6 56:16 57:2,5,17 41:24 42:5,12 29:14,15 32:4 6:10,22,22 11:2
50:8 knowing 27:16 42:13,13,16,25 41:23 43:18,19 13:4,7 15:3,3
knowledge 17:3 43:9,19,20,24 55:15 21:7 40:17
17:4,7,9 44:1,4,16,25 looking 45:11 45:20 54:23
54:8 known 21:19 45:6,7,12,16 47:6 51:15 mention 15:4
35:7 38:1 47:6,18,22 48:5 36:15,17 37:12 56:15 14:20 16:11
48:21,21,25 37:25 38:5,8,13 numbers 57:4 45:21 58:9
16:20 32:5 50:25 51:4,9,11 41:10,17,21 O oral 1:11 2:2,5
37:23 51:14,17,21,24 42:22 43:12 O 2:1 3:1 3:6 18:7 47:16
52:2 52:7,19,21,24 44:2,12,18,22 oak 53:7 order 18:13
52:25 53:12 45:1 46:1,9 objected 22:8 22:22,22 23:3
Michigan's multi-State 9:3 objection 27:16 outside 38:19
42:8 16:22 murder 18:15 objectively 24:19 override 5:20
51:1 52:1 middle 28:14 21:2 40:19,20 24:20 52:5 overturn 3:13
53:6 53:25 54:3 49:15 Obviously 16:12
minimal 42:6,7 N 2:1,1 3:1 23:3 45:12 page 2:2 11:4
3:19,22 3:14 9:6 58:3 nearly 7:12,15 41:4 45:3 panels 52:24
4:2,7,10 misapplied 18:1 need 12:13 55:25 offer 21:4,7 57:22
mitigate 21:5 negate 18:14 28:13 paradigm 56:16
mitigates 20:24 21:9 oh 19:19 50:1 part 5:16 22:21
20:25 negative 36:2 54:18 23:5 24:23
8:5,18,24 modified 22:4 neighbor's 53:7 okay 13:23 28:25 25:11 44:21
10:6,16 Mogill 1:17 2:6 neither 3:20 7:17 29:20 30:7,24 56:20,23
13:19 18:6,7,9 19:13 51:7 31:16 38:2 partial 21:24
19:17 20:1,12 never 5:17,19 48:16 26:2
16:4,8 20:14,16,20,25 7:8 11:20 12:4 once 21:11,22 particular 4:9
17:4 22:13,19 23:10 17:16 33:2 46:6 22:6 27:21 33:3 48:22
18:2 23:25 24:10,13 46:22 48:3 on-the-ground 54:21
19:3,11 24:17 25:19,23 51:23 54:22 35:21 parties 50:23
25:25 26:12,16 new 21:25 34:1 opinion 16:11 passed 4:2,18
21:12 26:18,21 27:2 44:10 18:2 21:17 29:6 21:13 35:6
24:18 27:20,24 28:2,5 North 11:4 34:2 43:13 pattern 30:12
27:3 28:7,10,24 29:1 note 43:14 51:9 45:15 58:25 people 15:21,24
29:2 29:9,13,17,22 notice 12:15 13:7 opinions 32:13 16:5,8 36:25
30:2,6,9,14,21 13:13 17:14 38:16 39:1 37:1 41:2,8
34:6,8 31:1,3,5,9,14 28:13,16 31:12 52:19 49:8,19 50:9
35:6 31:17,22,25 39:24 56:20 opportunity 14:2 57:3,3
39:16 32:3,14,20,23 noticed 37:8 opposed 15:17 percolate 25:7
33:3,12,15,18 notion 41:12 42:1 perfect 57:25
33:25 34:10,13 novel 34:2 opposing 20:2 perfectly 54:19
45:16 34:17,25 35:9 November 53:2 21:18 period 30:25
35:20,25 36:6,9 number 47:17 opposite 7:9 permissible
38:11 58:16 55:1 58:13,14 25:11 28:5,11
3:7 premeditation 45:25 46:3 39:15,20 41:1
50:2 56:16
18:14 21:9 34:5 49:13 51:13 42:11 43:23 57:9,25 58:13
45:10 premise 13:24 prohibit 16:17 51:14 53:13reason 12:6
12:2 14:7 25:10 34:3 39:8 prosecution 22:7 36:10 59:2 reasonableness
50:18 40:17 45:2 36:19 quickly 47:1 47:5
57:18 46:16 50:17 prosecutor 13:6 quirk 49:13 reasonably 24:5
14:5 49:14 56:1,1 prosecutors 25:3 quote 25:16 rebut 34:4
31:7 prevail 23:23 27:12 29:2 quoted 35:1 REBUTTAL 2:8
35:24 24:15 38:23 35:22 47:12
38:13,15 39:6 56:2 prosecutor's R recall 54:4
42:23 previously 37:16 18:17 27:6 R 3:1 recognize 10:21
47:25 51:11 prospectively raise 19:6,9 recognized 5:5
pre-statute 37:5 39:18 21:23 22:16 10:20 26:7
37:6 prove 36:1 23:21 24:7 26:4 recognizes 20:3
principle 17:4,19 published 16:11 30:1,18 49:25 recognizing
44:19,24 45:1 punish 16:17 raised 19:14 25:3 red 32:8
principles 3:22 put 15:13 29:6 52:13 55:5 Reese 47:23
55:8 57:20 23:16 39:22,24 rare 9:16 49:14 54:20
45:6 46:15 6:20 9:4 11:23 reached 14:20 37:15 45:5
22:3,23 problem 27:2 24:12,20,24,25 reading 15:23 41:24
40:8,9,14 responses 12:24 48:14,17 55:3 27:25 28:4,6,8 silence 4:6
44:13 responsibility 59:4 28:11,22,25 similar 11:3
27:8 Rogers 7:12,12 32:12,18,22,24 similarly 49:9
19:16 9:6 10:10 11:19 38:14 43:6 48:2 simply 3:20
41:1 retrial 18:19 19:4 38:5,6 39:21 Scalia's 23:18 single 5:23 9:19
43:8 26:3 40:14 41:22 scheme 28:12 11:14,16 56:12
53:14 retried 27:23 42:2 43:6,17,20 scholarly 39:4 situated 49:9
28:6 45:11 49:21 scope 38:17 situation 24:2
51:19 reversal 25:12 routinely 27:10 13:14,16,22 slate 54:23
27:22 33:9 28:19 Section 35:2 24:13 28:1 30:9
10:17 14:18 S 2:1 3:1 seek 28:19,20 sort 37:7
20:1 26:8 29:12 30:1 31:4 says 4:5 6:20 7:7 11:19 36:18 42:7 54:8
44:4 31:8,13 33:11 8:13,13 9:21 sentence 51:22 54:15
33:14 34:3,12 11:1,4 12:10 sentenced 22:15 sounds 27:4
26:7 27:3 40:16 43:25 29:20,23,25 set 5:6 28:15 South 8:22 41:24
44:3 45:2,25 30:18,19,20 37:13 39:22 43:18
45:10 50:22 53:18 56:23,24 shepherdize 54:4 speaks 48:22
51:23 14:15,21,23,25 46:10 surveyed 42:2 38:8,11,13
34:11 35:6,11 suggests 9:15 T 2:1,1 48:2,3,17 49:4
27:8,11 39:18 41:19 supplement 39:5,7 49:14 thinking 53:4
49:21 45:14 47:21 19:24 31:25 talk 31:9 thoroughly 46:10
58:1 48:5 50:2 53:16 33:21 48:24 talking 7:23,25 thought 13:15,17
8:10 statute's 13:25 45:19 44:3 57:9 51:18
12:1 statutory 3:21 supports 43:17 tells 57:15 till 4:23 56:22
14:4,5 4:1,11 5:16 6:4 suppose 44:6 tend 36:25 37:1 time 5:3 9:16
22:4 9:10,25 10:1 supreme 1:1,12 tended 37:22 12:1,16 18:4,11
31:20,23 11:15 13:2,13 3:19 6:19 7:7 Tennessee 7:14 28:15,16,18
33:1,19 16:8 28:12 7:14,16 8:4,5 7:16 8:4 10:11 41:7 45:3,6,12
34:24 50:18 58:11 8:10,13,18,23 11:21 32:7 38:4 46:6 49:14 51:2
39:6 stood 6:11 8:24 9:5 12:1,8 42:3 43:20 times 10:20 32:4
41:19,23 strange 12:6 12:20 13:19 term 7:15 12:18 32:9
43:1,8,9 Strickland 23:11 16:10 18:20,25 terms 33:12 today 8:2 9:20
44:1,1,4 23:13,16 19:11,15 22:4 38:21 13:10
strong 47:5 22:23 23:4,7 Territorial 53:21 tomorrow 9:20
58:6,17 structure 6:4 26:20 32:15,19 territory 4:17 Toni 16:16
48:22 38:24,25 39:6 testimony 21:5 touch 57:23
34:25 41:15 42:12,14,17,24 thank 3:8 18:5 tradition 14:16
15:2 submit 12:1 17:8 48:25 50:13,16 47:8,9,14 59:2 treatises 15:1
submitted 59:5,7 51:22 52:4,19 thin 12:23 trespass 41:24
5:7,13,21 subtract 4:11 surprise 19:19 think 7:10 8:16 27:22 28:14,19
successful 19:10 19:20 21:13 8:19 9:1,7,24 28:20 29:19
8:6,19 22:18 25:8,9 41:20 10:9,14 12:6 36:3,13,20 39:3
9:17,20 such-and-such surprised 23:18 15:9,24 22:11 46:17 49:16
7:5 surprising 37:1 22:19 24:20,24 tried 7:5,6 28:3
12:2,22 sufficient 38:12 surprisingly 26:22 34:18 49:10 56:12
37:4 unlawful 41:9 Wednesday 1:9 17:13 20:13 1810 4:18 53:21
46:24 Unquestionably weed 53:9 30:20 37:8 54:9 1886 53:20
unreasonable 3:22 18:12 22:9 wrongly 54:16 6:2,5,6,8 20:6
43:10,10 use 7:15 18:23 well-settled x 1:2,7 32:25 47:21
57:15,21 51:24 48:21 33:2,2,2 1975 4:2 5:6,10
17:16 21:14
vacated 25:14 56:18 1976 5:10
53:2
vacuum 6:4,9 7:13 11:20 30:5 11:1 21:14
violate 7:16 years 4:7,14,14 54:3
20:21 34:2
44:11,18
47:2
W 34:8 35:8 49:16
waited 50:16 year-and-a-day 2 34:8 35:7
31:19 37:8
51:14 57:5
want 12:25 24:23 Youngblood 43:4 200 4:7,14,14
wonder 9:13 200-year 14:3
39:18 zero 29:12,16 15:10
54:24 31:7,24 2001 4:23 5:1
10:14 12:4 wondering 8:8
51:8 52:9 56:9 57:23 word 32:6 6:18 16:12 19:5
58:7,8 wants 17:2 39:22 worded 26:8 21:13 31:3,4
8:1 35:16
warrant 27:10 31:12 48:25 1 50:12
wasn't 7:22 world 38:19 10 30:11 2013 1:9
34:1 35:12 42:9 worth 56:3 100 7:15 32:16 247 11:4 13:2
46:8,9 50:12 51:25 wouldn't 9:22 32:17 57:4 26 18:22
58:14 53:1 55:2 58:20 16:22 23:7,7,16 100-year 7:12
55:6 56:3 34:6
45:4,5 14:24 39:12,18 11:01 59:6 3 2:4 21:14 35:2
32:15 52:19
52:18,20 56:6
57:8,13
15:12 32:14
47:16
2:10
15:12 41:11
35:2
6:15
54:25
6:13 8:1 15:7
55:2
18:19
31:1,5 52:13
