IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MARVIN PEUGH :
Petitioner : No. 12-62
v. :
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, February 26, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:09 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
STEPHEN B. KINNAIRD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Petitioner.
ERIC J. FEIGIN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
on behalf of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
STEPHEN B. KINNAIRD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ERIC J. FEIGIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
STEPHEN B. KINNAIRD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:09 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 12-62, Peugh v. United
States.
Mr. Kinnaird?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN B. KINNAIRD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KINNAIRD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In sentencing Petitioner Marvin Peugh, the
district court applied the 2009 guidelines sentencing
range of 70 to 87 months, rather than the 1998 range of
37 to 46 months applicable at the time of his offense.
Retroactive application of harsher guidelines passed
after the offense violates the Ex Post Facto Clause if
it -- if it creates a significant risk of increased
punishment.
Now, the government here objects that a
guidelines amendment does not change the law, but that
is incorrect. The guidelines are legislative rules that
define a term of a mandatory statute, namely subsection
(a)(4) of Section 18 USC --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. A mandatory
schedule?
MR. KINNAIRD: Excuse me?
JUSTICE SCALIA: A mandatory schedule, you
say?
MR. KINNAIRD: No, it's a term of a -- of a
mandatory statute, subsection --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, okay.
MR. KINNAIRD: -- (a)(4) of -- of 18 USC
3553. That provision requires the district court to
consider the guidelines sentencing range, and I'll
quote, "established for the applicable category of
offense committed by the applicable category of
offender."
So, in 1998, the guide -- that statute, the
law mandated that the district court shall consider, as
applied to Peugh's offense and offender category, a
sentencing range of 37 to 46 months.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let's say you prevail,
and the case is remanded for resentencing. Is there
anything that would prevent the district court from
saying -- you know, before the promulgation of the new
guidelines, I thought the range in the old guidelines
was about right for this offense.
But, now that I've seen the new guidelines,
I think that those really fit best under the factors
that I have to consider under the statute in determining
the correct sentence, so I'm going to reimpose exactly
the same sentence, not because it's required by the
guidelines, in fact, I'm going to go outside the
guidelines. I just think, with the enlightenment that
the new guidelines have provided me, that that's the
best sentence.
Now, would that be -- would there be an ex
post facto problem there?
MR. KINNAIRD: No, it would not, Your Honor.
You would, under the statute, have to follow all the
steps in the Rita/Gall framework, but the district court
is always able to consider any new developments that it
wants. What we're talking about is the change of law.
And that was the point I was just getting to.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not a change of the
law if -- if the law does not require the guidelines to
be imposed. Your -- your case rests upon the
proposition you stated at the outset, which is that the
Ex Post Facto Law applies -- prohibition applies -- if
there is a substantial possibility of -- of a higher
sentence -- was that the language you used?
MR. KINNAIRD: Substantial -- significant
risk --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Significant risk.
Suppose -- suppose the district judge for the Federal
district in which somebody's crime was committed was a
bleeding heart judge. He always gave the lowest
sentence possible, and everybody knew that.
And he is replaced. He retires after the
arrest, after the crime, and he is replaced by Maximum
John, who everybody knows gives the highest sentence,
every time. Ex post -- ex post facto violation?
MR. KINNAIRD: No, because the Ex Post Facto
Clause only applies to laws where here are delegated
lawmaking. And here's where the change in the law was,
Your Honor: As I mentioned, in 1998, the law required
the district court to consider a sentencing range of 37
to 46 months.
With the guidelines amendment, the law
changed. The law now required the district court for
that category of offender and offense to consider as
the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that what your
definition of legal consequence is?
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, legal consequence
refers to punishment. That's something -- that's
something different. So the fact --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, so you're
taking -- you're disagreeing with the proposition of our
older cases that to -- for there to be an ex post facto
violation, you have to have a legal consequence.
MR. KINNAIRD: No, not at all, Your Honor.
The legal consequence is the -- is the ultimate sentence
imposed. And in Morales and Lynce, the Court said --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, there's a --
there's a disconnect for me. Yes, I do accept that the
district courts have to consider the guidelines. But
how do you tie that to the requirement that the
punishment has to be tied to the guidelines?
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, the Court said, in
Morales and in Lynce, that -- and then when it was
reconciling two different formulations of the
standard -- and, in Lynce, the Court said it's the same
test whether you increase the penalty or whether you
determine if there's a sufficient risk of increasing the
penalty because that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The real formula is --
significantly increased the risk of perform -- of
prolonging the defendant's incarceration. That's the
standard you would like us --
MR. KINNAIRD: That's the standard of Garner
and Morales, yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And is -- is the heart of
your argument that there really isn't much difference at
all in what district judges are doing, now that the
guidelines are discretionary, than what they did when
they were mandatory; that is, most of them will start
with and stop with the guidelines.
I think that's --
MR. KINNAIRD: Yes. That -- that is
certainly one element of it, but the -- the fact -- it's
not exactly the same, but the fact is that, even under
the advisory guidelines, the change in law creates a
significant risk.
And when you're evaluating significant risk,
I think you have to start from the premise that the
ex post facto violation prohibits an increase in
punishment of any quantum, even of 1 day.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your -- your brief spent
some time on statistics, how often this happens. But I
take it you're not saying that our inquiry is a
statistical one. You're simply saying that the
statistics bear out that, as an objective legal matter,
the framework that you are explaining to us is and must
be followed?
MR. KINNAIRD: Yes, Your Honor. The -- and
that's -- the inquiry in Garner -- in Garner, the Court
said, you can demonstrate significant risk either by
showing that the risk is inherent in the rule or as
applied to your sentence and marshalling the evidence of
the practical operation of the rule.
So statistical evidence is -- is evidence of
the fact of significant risk by the operation of that
framework.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about the statutes
allowing relatives and friends of the victim to testify?
Let's assume a crime committed before -- a horrible
crime committed before that statute is enacted. Does it
violate the ex post facto law to give effect to that
statute?
MR. KINNAIRD: No, Your Honor. I think
there's a series of cases saying those kind of changes
in trial procedure would not be within the Ex Post Facto
Clause. It --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? Don't -- don't you
think it creates a significant risk --
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, you have to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that the defendant will
get a higher sentence? Don't you think that's the whole
object of the law, in fact?
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, but -- what you have to
show -- I think you have -- this is a core sentencing
law. It changes the law of punishment, which is
different from procedure. And, in Miller, the Court
said that, when there's a change in the -- in the actual
sentencing standard, the number of years, that's
substantive, not procedural.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if you have a
law that sentencing judges must consider these factors,
and one of the factors is whether the defendant has
strong family ties that will be -- you know, jeopardized
or whatever, if he's incarcerated. You don't want to
take him away from his family because that will penalize
other people. And then Congress thinks that's not a
good idea and they take that away.
Is that an ex post facto violation? It
increases the factors of -- or the risk that the
defendant will get a higher sentence. Before, he could
take advantage of the fact that he had -- you know, a
particular family situation; later, he could not.
That's a change in what the sentencing court must
consider and is to his prejudice.
MR. KINNAIRD: I think, if it is simply a
change in the mix of factors, even the mandatory
factors, it wouldn't necessarily create a significant
risk. But the guidelines --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, under -- under
our modification of the guidelines approach, isn't that
just a list of factors that the Court should consider --
or must consider?
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, Your Honor, I think the
guidelines are distinctive because they are the actual
benchmark, and they must -- and the starting point for
any sentencing. It is critical at what range you
start your sentencing analysis, it's going to affect the
analysis, whether you're starting at a range of 20 to
30 months or 120 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that -- is that what --
who says that they're the benchmark that you start with?
Where -- where is that writ?
MR. KINNAIRD: That's in Gall, so that's
in -- a construction -- what's implied in the sentencing
format.
JUSTICE SCALIA: A court -- a court must
begin with that?
MR. KINNAIRD: Yes. Yeah, that's the -- and
the court not only must begin with it, it must be
cognizant of it throughout the process. And any --
any --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So what if the --
what if the law said the court must begin with a
comparison of what the average sentence is across the
country, okay? And the data collection, over time,
becomes more sophisticated, and they can give you a more
accurate number for what the average sentence is. And
it turns out it's higher than what their informal survey
was before.
Is that an ex post facto violation?
MR. KINNAIRD: I don't think necessarily so,
but this is a -- a requirement to actually consider a
range. So if --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. It'd be the
same -- it'd be the same thing. One of the things that
the Sentencing Commission considers is, of course, what
the average sentences were around the country. And
let's say that the law says that's something you have to
consider, and the technology or the range of -- of
judges that they can survey becomes more sophisticated,
the number goes up.
MR. KINNAIRD: I think it may be, if you had
the exact same Rita and Gall framework --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. KINNAIRD: -- and that -- that framework
is that that range actually is the benchmark and the --
and the starting point. The district court must justify
any deviation from that range -- and this is language
from Gall -- with "sufficiently compelling
justifications to support the degree of the variance."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And so the answer --
MR. KINNAIRD: And it is then reviewed on
appeal --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And so the answer to
my question is?
MR. KINNAIRD: It would be -- I think it
would be likely if it were -- if it were within the same
framework, if it's the mandatory benchmark with
appellate review for substantive reasonableness and a
presumption --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just -- I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
MR. KINNAIRD: And a presumption of -- of
reasonableness on appeal would attach to that standard.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So just getting more
accurate information violates the Ex Post Facto Clause,
in the framework that you've set forth?
MR. KINNAIRD: I think if it's -- if you
could -- if it's an actual -- well, I don't -- the
distinction I was trying to draw is that, if you
actually -- if the -- if the statute has effectively
delegated the specification of a specific range, as
opposed to just a data factor that might change over
time, and that's the key change in law here.
As I mentioned, 1998, had to consider 36 to
47 months. With the guidelines amendment, the law
changed. He now must consider, for that offense and
offender category, a range of 70 to 87 months, and --
and -- as the mandatory benchmark. That's a change in
the law. And then you go to the test of significant
risk.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if the -- what if the
statistics showed that nationwide only -- let's say,
25 percent of defendants were being sentenced within the
guideline range; would that change your argument?
MR. KINNAIRD: I think it makes the -- well,
we have an argument that's specific to our sentencing.
But if the -- if in a particular case, a defendant were
making an empirical analysis, that may diminish the
chance of significant risk, but with a caveat because
it's not just sentences within the guidelines range,
it's the fact that the district court, even if it
sentences out of the guidelines range, the ultimate
amount that it sentences to is going to be partially
determined by that mandatory benchmark. And that --
that's an important point.
And, as I said, the significant risk is a
risk of any increase in the quantum of punishment. So
it's really is there a significant risk that, had he
been -- had the old guidelines been in place as the
benchmark, that he would have gotten a sentence of less
than 60 -- 70 months. And -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I think there's a fair
chance that, as time goes by --
MR. KINNAIRD: -- I think it's clear --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- we're going to see fewer
and fewer sentences within the guidelines. As judges
who began their careers during the guidelines, the
mandatory guidelines era, leave the bench, new judges
come in who never had to deal with the mandatory
guidelines, I think we're going to see fewer and fewer
guidelines sentences.
And -- and the percentages in some districts
are -- are really quite striking. I'm told that, in the
Southern District -- or the Eastern District of New
York, now, only 30 percent of the defendants receive
within-guidelines sentences.
So --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're assuming that's
changed over time.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, when I was on the
court of appeals we thought it was our responsibility to
ensure that the district courts were complying with the
Sentencing Reform Act. That might not have been true
across the river, but --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It wasn't.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE ALITO: Let's say this case comes
back in 20 years and the statistics show that --
only a distinct minority of defendants are being
sentenced within the guidelines; would the case come out
differently?
MR. KINNAIRD: Perhaps, but, again, this is
an as-applied challenge, so we look to current data.
There has been a very slight, gradual decline, but
there's still 80 percent of the sentences are either
within the guidelines or they're below the guidelines
range, pursuant to a guidelines sanction departure
motion from the government.
So it's an -- even the Sentencing Commission
attributes that relationship to the fact that it's the
initial starting point in the 2012 Booker report. So I
think it has a profound effect.
Now, if the Court wanted to rule more
narrowly in this case on significant risk, it could.
And it could adopt a rule that, when the new and the old
guidelines ranges do not overlap at all, so that any
sentence that would be in the new guidelines range would
have required an upward variance, and, here, a
50 percent upward variance, those are as rare as hen's
teeth in the -- in the district courts -- that at least
shows, at a minimum, a significant risk, absent any
indication that the judge, as the question was posed,
wasn't going to apply them at all.
Here, the judge specifically and expressly
deferred to the 2009 guidelines. So it's clear that the
significant risk was increased by this change in the
law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Your -- your case depends,
it seems to me, upon the proposition that significant
risk is only applicable at the sentencing stage. And
I'm not sure that that's true. I mean, what -- why --
why would that be so?
What if -- what if you have a new law that
permits evidence to come in, in a criminal trial, that
previously was not allowed to come in? Let's say the
testimony of a wife or -- or whatever. I think the law
is pretty well established that that change in procedure
does not violate the ex post facto law.
And -- and your response to that is, well,
that's not sentencing; it's trial. So what? I mean,
if -- certainly making a conviction more likely is -- is
even worse than making a higher sentence more likely.
MR. KINNAIRD: I think my response would be,
Your Honor, that's not -- that particular change would
not be in the third category of Calder, the increase in
punishment. That would be in the fourth category, in
the change of the evidence, where you don't even look to
significant risk.
But I think the -- the change in punishment,
at a minimum, it's the sentencing law of this kind --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And would it be ex post
facto in -- in the hypothetical Justice Scalia gave?
MR. KINNAIRD: No, I don't think
so because I think -- well, it may, depending on the
circumstances, be within the fourth category, but not
under the third. I think in the third --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you just tell me the
narrow rule that you would propose --
MR. KINNAIRD: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- getting back to
Justice Scalia --
MR. KINNAIRD: The narrow rule --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- which is
procedures-change risks. Having a victim testify at
sentences -- at a sentence is likely, if you examined it
statistically, to increase -- increase the sentence.
So assume that's the set of hypotheticals.
You change it; now, victims can. Why is that not -- or
is it an ex post facto change?
MR. KINNAIRD: I don't think so because the
Court has generally excluded procedural changes, even if
you could show --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why is this not
procedural?
MR. KINNAIRD: Because the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Give me the rule where I
can draw a line between those changes that are
permissible and those that are not, not the general
statement you're making because both increase the risk
of a higher sentence.
MR. KINNAIRD: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So it can't be that.
MR. KINNAIRD: No. What Miller -- what
Miller said -- in Miller v. Florida, the argument was
made that a change in the sentencing range, the
presumptive range, was a change in procedure, and the
Court said, no, that's substantive. This is the
substantive benchmark. That is applied. It's a
substance standard.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that was in the --
that Florida case was the mandatory -- almost mandatory
guideline, and I think our starting point is -- your
starting point, too -- is that, when the guidelines were
mandatory, it was ex post facto because our decision in
the Florida case said it was.
Is this sufficiently different now that the
guidelines are advisory rather than mandatory?
MR. KINNAIRD: No, Your Honor. I think it
would still be a substantive standard, regardless of
whether it's binding or -- or whether it's advisory.
It's still a substantive standard. So, if it's a change
in the substantive sentencing law, you go to significant
risk analysis.
And there you either look to the inherent
risk -- and I think there is an inherent risk in this
framework, that there's going to be some increase of
some quantum of punishment beyond what they would have
done if they'd applied the older guidelines as the
mandatory benchmark.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But saying that the
sentencer has to consider testimony from the victim or
from relatives of the deceased, that -- that change in
sentencing law is okay?
MR. KINNAIRD: Under the fact that it's
considered a procedural law, not substantive.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It pertains to sentencing.
It -- it says what the sentencing authority, the judge
or the jury, must consider.
MR. KINNAIRD: Well -
JUSTICE SCALIA: This is evidence brought
before the sentencer.
MR. KINNAIRD: Well -- yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't see any difference
between that and saying that the -- the guidelines have
to be considered by the sentencer.
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, I may have misheard
your -- your hypothetical. In that case, it may very
well be a sentencing -- a sentencing law, it may pass
that threshold, and then you go to significant risk. I
would say significant risk is more difficult to
determine than in this particular case, where you have
the actual starting point, an actual number, which has a
--
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're answering me
differently now?
MR. KINNAIRD: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're answering me
differently? I posed exactly the question that
Justice Scalia --
MR. KINNAIRD: I -- I may have misheard,
Your Honor. If --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I said the sentencing --
the assumptions I made were the sentencing law changes,
victims must testify, judges must consider what they
say, and, after 5 years, it's proven that, when victims
speak, the sentences are higher. Is that a substantive
or a procedural law?
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, I think Miller did draw
a distinction. There are procedures that are involved
in sentencing, and I'm not sure if the Court's
procedure-substance cases have drawn that distinction.
If it --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But I'm asking you to
draw it. So tell me, what's the rule? Do you want
something as broad that says even that kind of change
can be an ex post facto? And, if you don't, articulate
how I draw the line.
MR. KINNAIRD: I think -- I think the Court
could draw the line simply on substantive standards that
are applied. But, if the Court were to go the other
direction, significant risk --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What does that mean to
you? The number of years in jail?
MR. KINNAIRD: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that as limited as
you want it to be?
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, it could be. I mean --
or at least -- you know, if it's a mandatory sentencing
factor, something like that, as opposed to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, we know that's
Miller.
MR. KINNAIRD: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is not Miller.
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, but even the -- there
are -- there are sentencing factors that are mandatory
other than the guidelines range.
JUSTICE BREYER: I would have thought you
would have gone back to Calder and Bull. And Calder and
Bull, which this Court refers to all the time, in these
kinds of cases, has four categories, and the only one
that fits this case is a law that changes the
punishment --
MR. KINNAIRD: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and inflicts a greater
punishment than the law annexed to the crime when
committed. So whatever these other hypotheticals are,
they do not involve -- they are not laws that change the
punishment, but yours is a law that changes the
punishment.
MR. KINNAIRD: It is a law that changes --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does it "affix a higher
punishment," in the words of Calder v. Bull?
MR. KINNAIRD: I think it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think that's a
question at all. The answer to that is quite easy. It
does not affix a higher punishment, does it?
MR. KINNAIRD: But -- but the Court in
Garner, in Lynce, have equated that with increased risk
of significant punishment. And that -- the importance
of Garner is that it recognizes that the Ex Post Facto
Clause --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Then rely on Garner,
but not on Calder v. Bull.
MR. KINNAIRD: Yes. I think -- I think --
but Garner is applying that --
JUSTICE BREYER: I wouldn't concede that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't help --
(Laughter.)
MR. KINNAIRD: Okay. So what Garner -- what
Garner does say is that you look to the significant
risk. And it's important for ex post facto -- ex post
facto jurisprudence because the exercise of discretion
can't displace ex post facto protections. You have to
look to the effect on the actual punishment.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you remind me --
it's in the briefs -- if a sentence is appealed, what is
the review authority of the appellate court? It must
begin with the guidelines as the framework?
MR. KINNAIRD: The review authority is to
review for both procedural and substantive
reasonableness. So procedural, I think, has been
interpreted to look at whether there was a correct
calculation, whether they -- they did not treat it as
mandatory, that they considered it as the benchmark and
the --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But isn't the important
point, Mr. Kinnaird, that there's a presumption of
correctness that attaches to guidelines sentences on
appeal --
MR. KINNAIRD: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- that does not attach to
non-guidelines sentences?
MR. KINNAIRD: Yes. I was getting to that,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, this has, one would
think, great legal consequence.
MR. KINNAIRD: It is. And the second step
is substantive reasonableness review, and the Court has
held that an appellate presumption of reasonableness may
attach, so that -- it attaches only to this guideline
range. And that makes the risk of reversal higher if
you -- if you go outside the guidelines --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you -- do you know what
the statistics are as to the number of below-guidelines
sentences each year that are reversed by the courts of
appeals on the ground that they are not reasonable?
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, I think that they are
fairly low -- I don't know the precise statistics -- I
believe they're low for defendant appeals. But when --
partly, you're worried about here is -- is the
government going to appeal. They don't appeal very
often, but they have a high rate of --
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes. I mean, I'm told that
it's in the single digits.
MR. KINNAIRD: I believe the -- yes, it may
be -- I don't know if that -- it's not a great number,
but they prevail when they do. And it -- and it does
have some effect, but I think the Court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, who
prevails? The government or the --
MR. KINNAIRD: The government tends to
prevail when it brings, it's -- but -- you know, that's
a potential deterrent effect. But, even the fact of
substantive reasonableness review, you have to have
reasons, you have to be able to -- to justify your
deviations --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Have you had -- are you
aware of any circuit court case, in recent time, where a
circuit has reversed the lower range than the guideline,
basically because the deviation from the guideline was
unreasonable?
MR. KINNAIRD: I'm not sure. I haven't
reviewed all those cases, Your Honor. I'm not sure.
So the -- returning to the -- the question
of this particular sentencing, I think if the Court were
to rule on a narrower ground, based on non-overlapping
ranges, which is not going to be particularly common,
here, is unquestionably a significant risk. You
have a defendant who, prior to this course of conduct,
had lived an exemplary life.
His threshold -- his -- the loss in his case
barely crawled into the 2.5 to 5 million. It
was about 40,000 over 2.5 million. And the district
court sentenced at the bottom of the guidelines range,
agreeing with the policy of increasing sentences with
the amount of loss. That same policy was present, but
not the same level of increase, in the 1998 guidelines.
So I think there's clearly, as applied to
his sentence, the significant risk he would not have
gotten 70 months, which would have been an upward
variance of 50 -- of -- of 50 percent from the old
guidelines range.
And -- but I think, if the Court does wish
to consider the broader ruling, I think it's also true
that it is inherent in this system, in the Rita and Gall
framework, which provide for a mandatory benchmark,
which provide for the substantive reasonableness review,
that you're going to have some significant risk of some
increased quantum of punishment as a -- as a result of
this change in law.
I'd like to reserve the rest of my time for
rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Feigin?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC J. FEIGIN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. FEIGIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
This Court made clear, in Miller v. Florida,
that an Ex Post Facto Law has to change "the legal
consequences of a prior act." A guidelines amendment
doesn't do that. A district court has the same
authority and the same --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why are you fighting
this proposition? If the starting point doesn't matter,
why didn't you stick to your old position, that judges
should start from the old one and simply consider the
new one? Why this whole Supreme Court case?
MR. FEIGIN: Well -- well, Your Honor, we -
we opposed certiorari largely on that ground. We don't
think the guidelines impose a constraint on a district
court's exercise of sentencing discretion; that is, if a
judge decides that a guidelines range that the
Commission has suggested at some other time suggests a
more appropriate sentence or if the judge believes that
some sentence that's unrelated to any guidelines range
is the most appropriate sentence, the judge has
discretion to impose that sentence.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Practically speaking, do
you believe it makes no difference?
MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor, I freely believe
that the guidelines are very influential to many
district judges and district judges often agree with the
guidelines. They often impose sentences within the
guidelines range or close to the guidelines range. But
there --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is a change -- your
position is -- is a change, at least in the position
that the government took in -- in the Seventh Circuit
case that started all this. The government confessed
error.
The government said the district judge
should have used the guidelines that were in effect at
the time the offense was committed, and the government
came to the Seventh Circuit and confessed error.
So there was not even an argument until the
Seventh Circuit and Judge Posner wrote the opinion that
included all the hypotheticals that -- that were aired
earlier about the victim impact statement and all of
those are in that opinion. So it was only after --
after the Seventh Circuit opinion that the government
changed its position.
MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor, the government
changed its position in response to this Court's
decisions in Gall, Kimbrough, and Irizarry because,
before those decisions came out, there was an argument
that the guidelines still imposed some substantive legal
constraint on a district court's sentencing discretion.
After Gall, Kimbrough, and Irizarry, after Nelson and
Spears, that argument no longer exists.
Rita makes clear that district courts cannot
presume a guidelines range to be reasonable. Irizarry
makes clear that a defendant is constitutionally on
notice that he can get sentenced anywhere within the
statutory range.
And Gall makes clear that courts of appeals
should apply the same deferential standard of review to
every sentence, regardless whether it falls within the
guidelines range, just outside the guidelines range, or
far outside the guidelines range.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The guidelines range gets
a presumption of reasonableness at the appellate level.
MR. FEIGIN: That's right, Your Honor, and I
think Rita actually supports our position, not
Petitioner's. The Court made clear in Rita that the
presumption of reasonableness on appeal that this --
that courts of appeals can choose to apply, but need
not, has no legal effect.
Rather, it reflects the commonsense
proposition that when the Commission recommends a
particular sentencing range as to a particular class of
defendants and the district court, in its discretion,
actually imposes the sentence within that range, that
the sentence is likely to be reasonable.
The entire premise behind the presumption of
reasonableness that was adopted in Rita is that district
courts are, in fact, exercising their discretion when
they impose sentences, and that's the same premise on
which we'd ask you to decide this case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What is the reason that
miscalculating a guideline is considered a procedural
error?
MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor, it's very
clear, from 3553(a)(4), that Congress wants district
courts to start with the right mix of information, which
includes the most up-to-date recommendation of the
Sentencing Commission.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That begs the question.
Obviously, if we hold it's a procedural error to
miscalculate the guidelines, using the guidelines has
some significant importance in the process.
MR. FEIGIN: It has importance, Your Honor,
and as I've said before, they can be very influential to
judges, but the reason why it's an error if -- to
miscalculate the guidelines is not because the
guidelines impose any substantive constraint on the
district court's discretion.
After reversal for miscalculating the
guidelines, the judge is free to impose the same
sentence anyway, and there's no constraint on the
judge's discretion that arises from the guidelines
frame.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But what that suggests is
that the guidelines are -- serve as an anchor and are
supposed to serve as an anchor and that the reason why
the miscalculation is error is because you've picked the
wrong anchor and that's going to affect or -- or has a
significant likelihood of affecting your ultimate
decision.
And isn't that, really, what we've
suggested? Is the way the guidelines ought to work and
the way you think the guidelines ought to work, that it
serves as an anchor for sentencing decisions; yes, you
can vary, you can deviate, but it's your anchor.
MR. KINNAIRD: Your Honor, there are two
things you could mean when you use the word "anchor."
One, you could mean that there's some sort of legal
anchor, and we think that the Court's decisions that
I've just described, in particular, the Court's repeated
insistence that district courts cannot presume a
guidelines range to be reasonable, means the district
courts cannot treat them as a legal anchor.
Second, you might be suggesting that they
serve as some sort of psychological anchor. That's not
a concern of the Ex Post Facto Clause. The Ex Post
Facto Clause doesn't guarantee defendants a right to a
judge who has a particular sentencing philosophy --
JUSTICE KAGAN: I think I'm saying more than
it's all in your head. I think I'm saying you start in
a particular place, you have to get the particular place
right. The appellate court looks at the particular
place that you've started and, if you -- if you've ended
up there, has to grant a presumption of reasonableness.
But the rules are all geared towards saying,
yes, you can deviate, but you have to understand that
there's -- that deviation requires some kind of thought
process and some kind of reason. Otherwise, this is
where you should be.
MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, the Court
made clear in Pepper, two terms ago, that the district
court's overarching legal duty is to impose a sentence
sufficient, but not greater than necessary, to meet the
statutory purposes of sentencing in Section 3553(a)(2).
The guidelines are one of several factors
that inform the district court's exercise of discretion.
If a district court treats the guidelines as some sort
of legal constraint this Court's decisions say it
can't be treated as, that would be statutory error --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it isn't, but that, I
think, is an undecided question at best. If you won the
case on that ground, I would say that what the
guidelines and the Sentencing Commission are best at,
gathering information from across the country, and
saying a typical person who commits this crime in a
typical way should be sentenced to the typical range
that applies -- let's say 18 to 24 months.
That would be down the drain. And I think
that Rita, in fact, and the other cases have, at the
very most, left open and maybe decided against you the
question of when a court of appeals gets the sentence
from a judge who does not apply the guideline because he
doesn't like the policy judgment.
That's a different matter from when he
applies it then when he thinks he shouldn't apply it
because the person in front of him doesn't meet the --
the policy conditions. Those are different. The
Commission has the expertise in the first, the judge in
the second. And so there is at least a question as to
whether the court of appeals should give more leeway to
the guidelines in the first and more leeway to the judge
in the second.
Now, I think Rita is consistent with that,
and I think every opinion we have written is consistent
with that. And I'd hate to see that suddenly decided
and changed in a way I think is inappropriate in this
case. So have you all thought that through?
And is the position of the government, now,
that we think the guidelines, even if it's a policy
matter that they have gathered evidence on, are entitled
to nothing, if they run across a district judge who
happens to think, though he was an outlier, that the
outliers were right as a matter of policy, which, of
course, will always be true. Every judge who is an
outlier thinks the outliers are right. Otherwise, why
would he do it? You see?
Now, I didn't know that issue was in this
case and that changes the case dramatically for me. And
I thought we could decide this just on the ground that
this is a law that changes punishment. It's a law.
It's a regulation.
And Justice Scalia, I thought, was
completely right. The question is whether it inflicts
greater punishment. And there is a test on that, and
the controlling inquiry is whether retroactive
application of a change in a law that affects punishment
created a sufficient risk of increasing the measure of
punishment attached. All right? And that's -- that's
what I thought the -- the framework of law was in this
case.
Now, this is sort of tough for you on oral
argument because I'm just, perhaps, bringing it all up
to get it all out there and see what you think.
MR. FEIGIN: Let me start at the end there,
Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I disagree with all that,
by the way.
(Laughter.)
MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor,
Justice Breyer, beginning with what you said at the end
there, I think it's -- it would be inappropriate to
untether the significant risk test from the requirement
that there be an ex post facto law; that is, there has
to be a significant legal risk, a risk that is traceable
to some sort of change in the decision maker's authority
with respect to sentencing, and we don't have that here.
A district court has the same authority and
the same obligation to impose an appropriate sentence
the day after the guidelines are amended as the judge
had the day before the guidelines are amended. And any
judge who forgets that is going to be committing
statutory error, and the sentence could be reversed on
appeal for violating the Booker remedy.
And that's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But when -- when it comes
to the court of appeals, that's different. The court of
appeals begins with a framework of whether or not it's
within the guidelines. That's how it begins to measure
the exercise of discretion.
MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, as I -- as
I've explained, the reason why courts -- the only way in
which courts of appeals can apply a different standard
of review to a sentence, depending on where it falls in
the guidelines range, is the presumption of
reasonableness the Court recognized in Rita.
And I think Rita makes quite clear that that
is a practical presumption. That is, it simply
acknowledges the common-sense proposition that when a
district court, exercising its discretion, reaches a
judgment that accords with the Commission's expertise,
it's likely that sentence is reasonable.
I don't think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You know, there is a lot
of dispute, now, about the child pornography sentences.
Let's assume -- and this goes back to Justice Breyer's
question -- a judge comes in and says, I know child
pornography is criminal, but I don't think what the
guidelines are imposing are fair, to any defendant, so
10 days in jail.
Why would that be substantively
unreasonable?
MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor, it would depend on
the individual circumstances of the particular case --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, I'm giving you
exactly what the judge says. You don't think that the
appellate court would say that's substantively
unreasonable because it's not giving due deference to
the Commission's assessment of the seriousness of this
crime?
MR. FEIGIN: I think the court of appeals
might say that it's substantively unreasonable because
it's a very, very low sentence, even in comparison to
the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume that the statute
is one that permits 10 days, right?
MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's sort of an unusual
statute, but, if the hypothetical is in the real world,
the statute provides -- you know, 10 days to life, okay?
And the judge thinks 10 days is okay. I think that's
the hypothetical.
MR. FEIGIN: And, Your Honor, in that case,
it is possible a court of appeals would decide that that
is substantively unreasonable. It's possible a court of
appeals might reference the guidelines. But the reason
why the court of appeals would find it substantively
unreasonable is because, as a whole, it is substantively
unreasonable and not because it varies too far from the
guidelines.
I also want to emphasize --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you disagree with --
getting back to what this case is about, the D.C.
Circuit, in opposition to the Seventh Circuit said, it
is enough that using the new guideline created a
substantial risk that the defendant's sentence was more
severe than it would have been if the guidelines in
effect at the time of the crime were used.
And is it -- there is no doubt that this
case fits that description. There was quite a
substantial risk that the elevated guidelines would
result in a more severe sentence.
MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, there are two
complaints that Petitioner could be making about his
particular sentencing. One could be that he thinks the
judge treated the guidelines too deferentially as a
legal matter. And, if that's what he believes, his
remedy is a claim of statutory error under Booker. He's
never made that claim.
The other claim --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He's saying that -- the
question is which guidelines in this case? And he's
saying it's the guidelines in effect at the time he
committed the crime. We are not dealing with other -- I
mean, it's quite a simple choice.
Is it -- does the court start with the
guidelines in effect at the time the crime was
committed? Or does it start with the guidelines in
effect at the time of sentencing?
MR. FEIGIN: And whichever set of guidelines
the district court started with, it had discretion and,
in fact, the obligation to impose the appropriate
sentence under 3553(a). Now --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: We know that this
district judge, he didn't want to get into any
philosophical things about what was better or what was
worse. He said, I want to follow the guidelines. So
the question for him was only which guideline.
He got his answer from the Seventh Circuit.
They said the guidelines at the time of sentencing. A
judge in the D.C. District Court will get the other
answer, the guidelines in effect at the time the crime
was committed.
MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor, Petitioner argued
in this case that the former guidelines range suggested
a more appropriate sentence than the 2009 guidelines
range. The district court considered that argument, and
it rejected it. And defendants are always free to raise
that argument.
If I could go back to Justice Sotomayor's
child pornography hypothetical --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's not -- it's not
a question of whether the judge thought that the one
guideline was better than the other. He specifically
said he wasn't interested in that question. The
question was which guideline does he follow? Which -
what does he start with? And you recognize that you do
start with the guidelines.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, I agree with Justice
Ginsburg's follow-up question. It seems to me you
avoided the question. You said, oh, well, the judge
looked at all this and selected the sentence he did.
But he did so because he referred to the later
guidelines, and I think that you have to recognize that.
Unless -- unless I'm --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think you are saying
it doesn't matter if they are advisory --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'd like to finish.
Unless I am wrong under the record.
MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, on the
record, I think, if you look at the full sentencing
transcript, which is in the Joint Appendix, you will see
that one of the questions the judge had to answer was
which set of guidelines were provided -- were the set of
guidelines that he had to calculate under
3553(A)(4)(a)(2).
And then there was a separate section in
which he considered the argument that the 2009
guidelines were too harsh. If you look at the
sentencing memorandum that Petitioner filed in this
case, it argued that the increase of loss amounts in the
fraud guidelines was too harsh, that judges often
imposed sentences that are under the guidelines, and the
district court should do so here.
The district court considered that
argument and rejected that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the district court
was following orders. He was following the Seventh
Circuit. The Seventh Circuit had said, you start with
the higher guidelines.
MR. FEIGIN: Justice Ginsburg, it's --
the Court considers these as two separate questions, one
is which is the set of guidelines I'm required to
calculate under Section 3553(a), and, second, having
calculated those guidelines, what sentence should I
impose, with the guidelines as one of the factors that
the Court considers.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Feigin, you're sounding
awfully like according deference to the guidelines
counts as reversible error.
MR. FEIGIN: No, Your Honor, that's not what
I'm trying to say. I'm saying treating the guidelines
as some sort of legal constraint on the district court's
sentencing discretion is reversible error. Now, if the
district court chooses, in its own discretion, to give
weight to the guidelines, that's within the realm of
choice that 3553(a) provides.
There are many circumstances --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is reversible error, is
it not, simply to blindly apply the guidelines without
considering the factors in 3553? That's reversible,
isn't it?
MR. FEIGIN: That's correct, Your Honor.
And, Justice Kagan --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, surely, you do not want
judges living in a world where they think that they
cannot give deference to the guidelines, isn't that
right? You want them to give appropriate deference to
the guidelines, isn't that correct?
MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor, we want them to
find the guidelines persuasive and influential. We
recognize that, under this Court's decisions, they
cannot treat the guidelines as a legal constraint on
their sentencing discretion. If a judge follows the
guidelines, that's because the judge is exercising its
discretion to decide that a guideline's range sentence
is appropriate in that particular case.
Now, there are many instances in which
judges choose not to do that. So if I -- for example,
Justice Sotomayor brought up child pornography. In
fiscal year 2012, a defendant for a non-production child
pornography offense, that is, receipt or possession of
child pornography, was substantially more likely to get
a nongovernment-sponsored below-range sentence than to
get a within-range sentence; 48.4 percent
nongovernment-sponsored below-range, 32.7 percent within
range.
If we want to talk about fraud for a minute,
which is what the Petitioner in this case was charged
with, if you look at page 67 of the Commission's
post-Booker report -- and I'd encourage the Court to
read that report in full -- because it makes very clear
the variations in sentencing practices among --
depending on the crime, depending on the particular
circuit, depending on the particular district, and even
depending on the particular judge.
I believe --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was Judge Randolph wrong
when he said -- quoting the Sentencing Commission --
that within-guidelines range, even after Booker, is the
standard? Indeed, the actual impact of Booker on
sentencing has been minor, and, for that minor, he cites
the Sentencing Commission.
MR. FEIGIN: So, Your Honor, I think the
post-Booker report refutes that in the respect I just
suggested. It says that there are actually very
different sentencing practices, depending on the
particular crime, depending on the particular judge.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this statement comes
from Final Report on the Impact of the United
States v. Booker on Federal Sentencing.
MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor, the Commission says
many things in its report. One of the things it says is
that, in the aggregate, guidelines do -- actual
sentences do tend to track the guidelines.
But, if you look beyond that one aggregate
statistic and you start to look at the variations in
sentencing practices in courts across the nation that
vary, not only by judge, but by guideline, you see that
the system is actually operating the way you'd
expect to --
JUSTICE BREYER: I see -- I see, now, where
you're going. What I think you're saying is, whatever
the sentence is, I am the judge, I read the guidelines.
Now, I may think that I am more likely to get reversed
if I -- I substitute a different view than the
Commission had on a matter of policy. That's all true.
But, still, I don't have to do it. No
matter what it is, I can not use the guidelines. And,
if I get reversed on other grounds, or the sentence is
not reasonable, da, da, da, da, da. But there's no
legal binding nature there. That's your point, I think.
MR. FEIGIN: That's exactly my point, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If that's
exactly your point --
MR. FEIGIN: I'd like to add two -- two
observations to that, first of which is, as an empirical
matter, it is extremely unlikely for a sentence to get
reversed on substantive reasonableness grounds.
The Commission's post-Booker report -- and
I'm talking about the one that they just issued a few
weeks ago that's cited in the reply brief -- states that
substantive unreasonableness reversals are very rare.
Petitioner, on page 30 of his brief, cites a database
that contains 38 such reversals post-Gall.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But, now, I can
narrow what the question I think is.
MR. FEIGIN: And the second point I'd like
to make, Your Honor, with respect to that, is that I
don't think this Court should assume that district
courts are actually going to change what sentences they
impose and not impose the sentence they believe is
sufficient, but no greater than necessary, to meet the
purposes of sentencing, just because they --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but that -- that
gets back to -- to your argument. You're -- I sense
that you want me to leave the bench saying the
guidelines just don't make any difference. Suppose
the -- suppose the district judge said, you know, if it
were just up to me, I would give this lower sentence,
but the guidelines are an important institutional part
of our system.
Uniformity in sentencing is desirable. For
us to take into account the experience of other -- of
other courts and what the Sentencing Commission does is
very important. Therefore, my discretion is guided by
these guidelines.
MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor, I absolutely --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You don't want me -- you
don't want me to say that.
MR. FEIGIN: I absolutely do not want you to
leave the bench with the impression that the guidelines
are unimportant. I want you to leave the bench with the
impression that the guidelines don't impose any legal
constraint on a judge's exercise of discretion.
Different judges -- not only does it vary by guideline,
but --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Feigin, take -- take
this example: Let's suppose that there's a crime and
the punishment for crime is 5 years to life, all right?
Now, Congress passes a statute, and it says,
no, we think this crime, now, is much more important
than we used to; now, it's 25 years to life, right? A
person commits the offense prior to that change.
Absolutely obvious case, right, that you have to apply
the -- the 5 years to life, right?
Obvious, correct?
MR. FEIGIN: Yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. Now, the Sentencing
Commission does what the Sentencing Commission always
does when there is a legislative change like this. It
says, well, we have this guidelines that assumes 5 years
to life. We have to change our guidelines because, now,
it's 25 years to life. And it passes a guideline
amendment which completely conforms to the legislative
amendment.
But you're saying, no, the 25-year-to-life
guideline is the appropriate one to implement, even
though the 5-year statute is the appropriate one to
implement -- is the appropriate one to give effect to.
Is that -- can that possibly be right?
MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor, I think I'm saying
something slightly different. I think, under 3553(a),
the Court would calculate the current guidelines. Now,
the defendant would have a very good argument in that
case, that the current guidelines range would simply not
be appropriate for him, and I think a district court
would do well to listen to that argument in that
particular case, if it thought that the sentences that
the new guidelines range was suggesting were out of
whack with the statute at the time the offense was
committed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Feigin, I'm under the
impression -- more than the impression I know -- that
the Sentencing Commission can make a revision of the
guidelines retroactive.
Can it only do that for revisions that --
that lower the -- the suggested penalty? Or can it do
that for revisions that increase it as well?
MR. FEIGIN: I believe it's only for
revisions that lower --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Only for lower, okay.
MR. FEIGIN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because, if it could
increase it, then it would be violating, according to
your -- your friend, the Ex Post Facto Clause.
MR. FEIGIN: And, Your Honor, getting back
to how the -- the advisory guidelines are working in
practice for a minute -- which, again, is I don't think
what this -- what the focus should be. The focus should
be on whether there's actually been a change in the law
that either increases or decreases a sentencer's
discretion.
If you imagine two States, for example, each
of which had exactly the same advisory guidelines system
that the Federal government has and, in one of them,
judges are -- you know, tend to find the guidelines very
persuasive, they sentence within the guidelines 70
percent of the time. In the other one, judges
exercising their discretion don't find the guidelines
very persuasive, and they sentence within the guidelines
10 percent of the time.
I don't think it makes sense that, under the
exact same legal regime, an amendment to the guidelines
in one State would be an Ex Post Facto Law and an
amendment to the guidelines in the other State wouldn't
be an Ex Post Facto Law.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But your -- your statement
to me was -- and to us earlier -- was that the -- there
is no legal constraint on the exercise of discretion. I
agree, the judge -- everybody knows the judge can go
lower, but that overlooks the fact that discretion is
defined by legal standards. That's how we begin to
think about discretion.
That's how appellate courts weigh
discretion. And, again, you want to give the guidelines
no effect in determining how that discretion is shaped,
guided and exercised.
MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor, they are a factor.
They're a factor under 3553(a). They're a factor that
the district court has to consider. But they don't
themselves in any way, shape, or form constrain the
district court's exercise of discretion. A district
court can decide that -- not to impose a guidelines
sentence.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you accept the fact
that they define the discretion, even though they don't
constrain it?
MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor, I wouldn't say they
define the discretion either. I think they are a
recommendation and information that informs the exercise
of discretion --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if -- I'm
sorry.
Are you finished?
MR. FEIGIN: I'm happy to be, Your Honor.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A good -- good
advocate.
Let's say you had a statute -- not a
guideline, a statute -- that said a sentence for a
particular offense will be 5 years, but the judge can
lower it to 4 years, if he thinks it would be a manifest
injustice to sentence to 5 years. That provision is
later repealed.
Now, it just says that the sentence should
be 5 years. Does that violate the Ex Post Facto Clause?
MR. FEIGIN: I think it might well violate
the Ex Post Facto Clause, Your Honor, because, in that
case, you have something we don't have here, which is
that the decision maker has less discretion than the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No matter how
narrow -- no matter how narrow the original grant of
discretion is? In other words, only in the case of
manifest injustice or however dramatic you want to limit
the available discretion.
MR. FEIGIN: The reason I -- the reason I
said "might well" is I think, at that point, the Court
would have to look at the significance of the increase
or decrease in the sentencer's authority and decide
whether that was a significant enough increase or
decrease to trigger the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How would -- how
would a court --
MR. FEIGIN: -- the Ex Post Facto Clause.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. How would a
court go about answering that question?
MR. FEIGIN: I think that's where the
significant risk test comes in. And, under the
significant risk test, you can either see whether it
facially has that effect -- we know that's not true of
the Federal Sentencing Guidelines because the Court's
made clear they don't impose any legal constraints. Or
you could see whether it has that effect as applied
under Garner.
But We know that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's a
statistical evaluation of the kind we were talking
about. You look, and you say, well, it's only once in a
blue moon that a judge invokes the manifest injustice
provision, so it's not increasing the risk.
On the other hand, well, every four out of
five judges do, and, therefore, it is an increase. Is
that how you --
MR. FEIGIN: I think it's fundamental -- the
decision in Garner doesn't precisely describe exactly
how the significant risk inquiry works. I think it is,
fundamentally, a legal inquiry because the bottom-line
question the Court's always trying to answer is whether
there has been an ex post facto law.
And I think, to the extent it's okay to look
at empirical data -- and I don't think the Court in
Garner expressly says that that's the kind of data it
was contemplating -- it would be to inform how the legal
framework actually operates in practice.
And, if the Court found it necessary to look
at that here, in the -- the post-Booker report makes
clear that sentencing practices vary over the districts,
over the circuits, and with respect to particular
guidelines.
So Justice Alito brought up the example of
the Eastern District of New York. We don't have to look
any further than the Northern District of Illinois,
where Petitioner was sentenced here, where the latest
2012 statistics that came out on Friday show that the
defendant actually has a slightly higher probability --
very slightly higher probability -- of getting a
non-government-sponsored below-range sentence than of
getting a sentence within the guidelines range.
I think all these variances show two things.
One, they show that the system is working exactly as
you'd expect an advisory system to work; and, two, I
think they show that some sort of narrow focus on
empirical data, which is what you are left with, once
you divorce the ex post facto inquiry from a change in
law, is inherently unworkable.
You have to --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Feigin, I think
more goes into it than empirics. But there's this
unbelievable chart, really, in one of the green briefs
about -- you know, where there's one line, which is what
happens to the guidelines, and there's this other line,
which is what happens to the sentence, and they follow
each other identically, exactly.
You can't get a chart that looks better
from this than -- from Mr. Kinnaird's point of view.
MR. FEIGIN: So let me say two things in
response to that, Your Honor. If you look in the
post-Booker report, they have charts like that, that are
broken down by offense --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can finish your
sentence.
MR. FEIGIN: If you look at fraud and you
look at child pornography, they deviate when they go --
when the guidelines' suggestion goes up, the sentences
don't go up in accordance with that, at the same level
of the chart you are looking at.
Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Kinnaird, you have 3 minutes left.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN B. KINNAIRD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KINNAIRD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Five quick points. First, the government
says this must be an overt legal restraint to be within
the Ex Post Facto Clause. This Court has repeatedly, in
Weaver and other cases, said it's the effect of the
change of law, not its form, that matters for ex post
facto purposes, the effect on punishment.
And what this revision and amendment of the
mandatory benchmark did was to alter the legal framework
in a way that channeled and redefined the exercise of
discretion in the direction of greater punishment.
Secondly, what range is the -- is the
mandatory benchmark under the statute matters greatly,
as Justice Kennedy alluded to, to appellate review for
substantive reasonableness. You have -- it's the key
factor in determining whether a sentence is reasonable,
and it's the standard to which a presumption of
reasonableness may attach.
Third, as far as the record, there's --
there's no analysis in the record of the 1998
guidelines, other than to -- to set them aside. And --
and what you have to have, under the Constitution, is he
has to actually apply those as the statute required at
the time of the offense, as the mandatory benchmark.
Instead, he's quite clear, he's applying the
'98 guidelines. He's deferring to the -- to the policy
judgments there and to the loss calculations. So it had
a clear substantive effect on his risk of greater
punishment.
The post-Booker report does have those --
those charts that show that, for all offenses and for
fraud offenses, when the guidelines' minimum goes up,
the average sentences go up, and that's a very
compelling point of evidence.
And, finally, I would point out here that
one of the amendments here was actually a response of
the Commission to a congressional directive in the wake
of the Enron scandal and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, where
there was great public and legislative outrage over
light fraud sentences, to reconsider the fraud -- fraud
guidelines.
And that puts this in the core of the Ex
Post Facto Clause, that it violates fundamental notions
of retroactivity for a legislature to be able to alter
the law of punishment after the offense.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:09 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
49:15,16 51:14,16 approach 10:23 back 16:4 18:16 36:25 46:16 47:4
amendments 58:13 37:8 41:1,15 44:12 41:19 48:1 50:22 Breyer's 38:10
analysis 11:5,6 argued 41:13 42:25 basically 27:1 bringing 36:17
answer 12:24 13:2 41:16,18 42:22 begs 32:4 brought 21:1 44:24
answering 21:15,18 arises 32:17 57:2
arrest 6:5 C
21:13,13 29:11,12 45:16
45:20 46:8 47:22 50:15
26:7,7 31:7 asking 22:9 43:13 49:24
assessment 38:23 calculated 43:14
30:22 31:8 38:10 39:4 47:20 Calder 18:1 23:9,9
37:16,17 assumes 49:12 23:23 24:9
50:23 51:5 bench 15:7 48:2,17
38:25 39:13 assuming 15:17 careers 15:6
48:18
assumptions 21:24 case 3:4 4:18 5:17
attach 13:12 25:12 17:9 19:22 20:1
31:3 33:22 attached 36:13 26:24 27:12 28:24
51:25 57:16 attaches 25:9,21 29:21 31:20 34:17
34:18
17:11 24:23,25 28:19 40:4,16 41:14
available 53:16 49:5 50:1,4 53:10
16:3 25:24 blindly 44:4
19:19 20:14 12:10 58:10 cases 6:25 9:12 22:7
55:11 blue 54:15
27:19 54:9 avoided 42:5 23:11 27:4 34:24
35:5 awfully 43:18 categories 23:11
35:2,5 37:22 6:16 14:1 18:1,2
circuits 55:9 compelling 12:22 controlling 36:10 43:22 44:16 52:8
8:8 9:25 Clause 3:16 6:9 9:14 concern 33:16 58:24 crime 6:1,5 9:7,8
13:21,22 13:14 24:7 33:16 conditions 35:7 country 11:23 12:10 23:16 34:20 38:24
17:7,18,25 33:17 50:21 53:7,9 conduct 27:10 34:19 40:2,18,21 41:11
19:16 53:25 57:6 58:20 confessed 29:21 counts 43:19 45:13 46:2 48:24
20:7,18 clear 15:3 17:6 30:1 course 12:9 27:10 48:25 49:2
23:18 28:6 28:15 30:17,19,22 conforms 49:15 35:24 criminal 17:15 38:12
29:18,19 31:6,25 34:6 38:1 Congress 10:9 court 1:1,12 3:10,12 critical 11:4
37:5 47:21 45:11 54:8 55:8 31:25 49:1 4:8,14,19 5:11 current 16:9 49:24
51:1 58:2,5 congressional 58:14 6:12,15 7:4,10,13 50:1
57:8 clearly 27:19 consequence 6:19 8:22 9:24 10:16,24
30:8,10 cognizant 11:18 consequences 28:17 12:20 14:15 15:21 D 3:1
collection 11:23 consider 4:9,14,25 16:19 19:2,18 da 46:25,25,25,25
21:24 23:12 17:15,16 10:4,17,24,25 12:5 24:3,23 25:19 data 11:23 13:21
36:3,5 comes 16:3 37:15 12:12 13:23,25 26:14,24 27:6,15 16:9 55:2,3,24
12:7,17,24 48:10 49:10,10 considering 44:5 39:13,14,16 40:20 dealing 40:18
26:15 50:10 58:14 considers 12:9 40:25 41:10,16 deceased 20:18
52:18,23 Commission's 38:5 43:11,16 43:3,4,6,11,16,24 decide 31:20 36:4
54:1,12 38:23 45:9 47:10 consistent 35:13,14 45:10 47:20 49:24 39:13 44:20 52:9
57:3 commits 34:20 49:4 Constitution 57:24 50:2 52:6,9 53:18 53:20
committed 4:11 6:1 constitutionally 53:24 54:2 55:2,6 decided 34:25 35:15
45:2 40:18,22 41:12 constrain 52:7,13 courts 7:7 15:22 decision 19:25
50:7 constraint 29:2 17:1 26:1 30:17,22 32:25 37:5 53:11
30:1,3,7 common-sense 38:3 construction 11:12 court's 22:6 29:3 decrease 53:20,22
41:8 43:8 comparison 11:22 contains 47:15 30:10,14 32:13 decreases 51:2
45:14 39:2 contemplating 55:4 33:9,10 34:7,11,13 defendant 9:18 10:5
14:11 26:5 29:11 48:3 41:4,10,16 43:3,4 Enron 58:15 34:11 37:19 48:20
30:19 38:13 different 6:22 7:12 43:6,22,24 45:14 ensure 15:22 51:20 52:8,16
49:25 55:16 9:24 20:2 35:4,7 47:20 48:4 50:2 entire 31:16 57:12
16:5 31:13 48:21 49:23 districts 15:11 55:8 equated 24:4 exercising 31:18
41:17 differently 16:7 divorce 55:25 era 15:7 38:4 44:19 51:10
difficult 21:11 doubt 40:3 28:11 expect 46:15 55:22
44:11,12 diminish 14:12 dramatic 53:15 31:23 32:5,10,22 expertise 35:8 38:5
45:13,13,14 52:1,2,8,12,15,17 effect 9:9 16:18 10:11 12:3 13:14 6:8,25 8:12 9:9,13
46:1,2 53:11,14,16 57:13 24:20 26:14,19 17:19 18:7,25 10:11 12:3 13:14
distinctive 11:2 20:10 51:2 52:15 exact 12:16 51:14 55:25 57:6,9 58:20
57:18 6:12,15 7:7,25 elevated 40:5 51:5 54:21 55:21 factors 4:24 10:4,5
29:14,14,23 30:14 empirics 56:4 48:24 51:4 55:11 fair 15:1 38:13
32:13 33:11,12 encourage 45:10 Excuse 3:24 4:1 falls 30:24 37:23
54:7 formula 7:17 19:21 29:18 31:2 guide 4:13 52:4,14,21 53:9
forth 13:15 41:21 43:6,10 guideline 14:8 19:23 horrible 9:7
30:9 31:4,24 found 55:6 45:17 46:3 25:21 26:25 27:1 hypothetical 18:8
34:5 36:19,24 four 23:11 54:17 Ginsburg's 42:4 31:22 35:2 39:24 21:8 39:8,11 41:20
38:17,25 fourth 18:2,11 give 9:9 11:24 19:7 41:7,23,25 46:13 hypotheticals 18:23
40:7,24 frame 32:18 35:10 43:24 44:11 48:21 49:14,18 23:17 30:4
42:14 43:10 framework 5:11 44:12 48:5 49:20 53:1
44:7,14 8:19 9:4 12:16,18 52:1 guideline's 44:20 I
46:6 47:2,6 13:6,15 20:12 gives 6:6 idea 10:10
48:13,16,23 24:24 28:2 36:14 giving 38:19,22 H identically 56:9
50:8,15,18 37:17 55:5 57:11 go 5:3 13:10 14:3 hand 54:17 Illinois 55:13
52:4,14,21 fraud 43:1 45:7 20:8 21:10 22:16 happens 8:15 35:22 imagine 51:4
54:3,20 56:18 58:9,17,17 25:23 41:19 51:21 56:7,8 impact 30:5 45:20
58:17 54:2 56:19,21 happy 52:21 46:4
full 42:15 45:11 28:4 32:23 37:11 held 25:20 49:2
57:4 54:23 gotten 14:24 27:21 higher 5:20 9:19 43:15 47:22,22
28:15 28:1 30:11,15,22 gradual 16:10 hold 32:5 impression 48:17,19
24:4,6,8,11,15,16 great 25:17 26:12 7:22 8:21 9:11 inappropriate 35:16
gathered 35:20 greater 23:15 34:8 21:22 25:15 27:4 incarcerated 10:7
20:12 27:18 jeopardized 10:6 3:6,7,9 4:1,4,7 5:9 37:3 51:1,15,17 54:14 55:1,6,12
50:14,20 John 6:6 5:22 6:8,20 7:2,10 54:25 56:1 57:8 56:13,18,19
54:18 Joint 42:16 7:21 8:5,21 9:11 58:22 looked 42:6
24:4 28:5 17:5 20:23 29:4,6 11:11,16 12:4,15 laws 6:9 23:18 looks 33:22 56:10
33:18 35:2,8,11,21 13:16 14:9 15:3 48:18 58:4
36:12 54:16 38:11,20 39:10 18:18 19:1,6,12,14 left 34:25 55:24 low 26:4,5 39:2
44:15 51:21 53:2 54:15 24:15,25 25:8,11 34:7,13 37:4 40:11 Lynce 7:4,11,13
34:19 52:16 32:10 43:1 44:10 Kinnaird's 56:11 57:11 maker 53:11
28:1 judge's 32:17 48:20 22:24 23:1 25:24 legislature 58:21 17:23 19:10 40:8
jury 20:24 54:6,11 56:6 52:25 13:6 14:2,18 15:7
54:22,23 justify 12:20 26:21 56:21 20:3,15 22:24 23:6
L life 27:11 39:9 48:25 25:5 28:2 57:11,15
necessarily 10:20 offenses 58:8,9 38:18 40:9 44:21 points 57:4
necessary 34:8 okay 4:6 11:23 50:4 53:2 55:9 35:7,19,23 46:21
Nelson 30:15 55:1 pass 21:9 38:12 41:20 44:24
22:4 23:2 new 4:20,23 5:5,12 27:22 28:22,23 passes 49:1,14 posed 17:3 21:19
28:15 15:7,13 16:21,23 older 6:25 20:14 penalize 10:8 position 28:22 29:19
nongovernment-s... operates 55:5 people 10:9 Posner 30:3
non-overlapping 22:25 29:1 perform 7:18 post 3:16 5:8,19 6:7
32:14 non-production oral 1:11 2:2,5 3:7 permits 17:15 39:5 9:13 10:11 12:3
Northern 55:13 orders 43:7 49:4 18:25 19:25 22:12
11:7 13:24 25:25 26:12 outrage 58:16 2:10 3:8,11 40:8 54:25 55:25 57:6,8
27:21 outset 5:18 41:13 42:24 45:8 58:20
O outside 5:3 25:23 47:14 55:14 57:2 post-Booker 45:10
53:13,13 offender 4:12,15 page 2:2 45:9 47:14 please 3:10 28:14 46:12 55:8
6:16 14:1 part 48:6 point 5:14 11:3 precise 26:4
psychological 33:15 33:12 34:21 37:24 refers 6:21 23:10 retires 6:4
25:8,20 31:3 punishment 3:18 45:6,19 50:1,5 Reform 15:23 36:10 50:11
33:24 6:21 7:9 8:13 9:23 55:19 57:14 refutes 45:24 retroactivity 58:21
38:2 57:19 14:21 18:2,5 20:13 ranges 16:22 27:8 regardless 20:5 returning 27:5
57:9,13 58:6,22 read 45:11 46:18 reimpose 5:1 reversed 26:1,25
realm 43:25 remanded 4:18 review 13:7 24:23
20:21 22:3 question 13:3 17:3 reasonable 26:2 repeated 33:10 reviewed 12:25 27:4
31:22 32:5 21:19 24:1 27:5 30:18 31:15 33:12 repeatedly 57:6 revision 50:10 57:10
19:17 36:8 38:11 40:16 reasonableness reply 47:12 50:16
questions 42:17 31:17 33:24 37:25 47:10 55:7 56:14 33:17,22 35:23,25
quick 57:4 reasons 26:21 require 5:16 47:4,16 48:25 49:3
38:1 40:4,19 58:2 57:1 16:24 43:12 57:25 risk 3:17 5:23,24
17:10 28:21
6:12 11:4 recommends 31:11 2:7 28:12 27:20 28:4 36:12
38:3
12:6,12,19,21 reconciling 7:12 response 17:20,24 37:2,4,4 39:25
14:1,8,14,16 reconsider 58:17 30:10 56:13 58:13 40:5 54:4,5,16,22
19:16,17 record 42:13,15 responsibility 15:21 58:5
25:22 26:25 57:21,22 rest 28:7 risks 18:20
29:4,7,16 redefined 57:12 restraint 57:5 Rita 12:16 28:1
31:5,6,17 schedule 3:25 4:2 56:20 58:10,17 9:16 10:20 14:3,13 specification 13:20
35:13 37:25 second 25:18 33:14 sentencing 3:11,12 14:20,22 16:20 spent 8:14
35:9,12 43:13 4:9,16 6:12 9:22 17:2,7,10 18:4 stage 17:11
11:20 12:7 42:21 43:13 17:21 18:6 19:16 37:2,4 53:21 54:4 45:20 57:19
13:2,9,13 see 15:4,9 21:4 20:8,19,22,23 21:9 54:5,22 standards 22:15
28:9 52:18 35:15 36:1,18 21:9,23,24 22:6,24 significantly 7:18 51:23
53:12,23 42:16 46:13,16,16 23:6 27:6 29:3 simple 40:19 start 8:2,11 11:5,9
56:16,24 54:5,9 30:14 31:12 32:3 simply 8:17 10:18 28:23 32:1 33:20
seen 4:23 33:4,18 34:9,18 22:15 28:23 38:2 36:19 40:20,22
18:14,18 sense 48:1 51:13 42:15,24 43:23 single 26:10 started 29:21 33:23
22:10 27:7 sentence 5:1,2,6,21 44:18 45:12,18,21 situation 10:15 40:25
19:11 55:8 Solicitor 1:17 State 51:15,16
38:6 39:2,25 40:6 serve 32:20,21 26:15 52:19 46:5 47:12 51:4
20:16 21:5 44:20 45:3,4 46:18 serves 33:4 36:16 37:5 39:7 statistical 8:17 9:2
34:20 46:24 47:8,22 48:5 set 13:15 18:23 43:22 55:23 54:13
42:10 51:8,11 52:10 53:1 40:24 42:18,18 Sotomayor 6:18,23 statistically 18:22
46:17 48:2 53:4,6 55:18,19 43:12 57:23 7:5 15:17 16:1 statistics 8:15,18
56:8,17 57:18 Seventh 29:20 30:1 18:13,16,19 19:4,7 14:6 16:4 25:25
22:11 38:11 27:15 30:20 34:21 43:7,8 22:9,18,21 23:1,4 statute 3:22 4:5,13
45:25 46:6,7 55:14 severe 40:1,6 26:23 28:20 29:10 4:25 5:10 9:8,10
53:6 55:3 sentencer 20:17 shape 52:7 31:21 32:4 38:8,19 13:19 39:4,8,9
21:2,6 shaped 52:2 44:24 49:1,19 50:6 52:25
9:5,15,18 53:20 55:15,20,21,23 sounding 43:17 statutes 9:5
17:9 18:8 sentences 12:10 58:8 Southern 15:13 statutory 30:21 34:9
20:16,22 14:14,16,17 15:5 showed 14:6 speak 22:2 34:14 37:12 40:12
23:22,25 15:10,15 16:11 showing 8:24 speaking 29:10 step 25:18
36:7,21 18:21 22:2 25:9,13 shows 17:2 Spears 30:16 STEPHEN 1:15 2:3
42:10 44:3 26:1 27:16 29:15 significance 53:19 specific 13:20 14:10 2:9 3:7 57:1
31:19 38:9 43:2 significant 3:17 5:22 specifically 17:5 steps 5:11
talk 45:7 51:13,24 52:15 51:4 55:20,22 victims 18:24 21:25
40:5 39:10 40:9 53:3 U 53:7,8
19:18,19 20:5 thought 4:21 15:21 unbelievable 56:5 violating 37:13
22:2,15 23:8 34:2 35:17 undecided 34:16 50:20
26:20 28:3 36:4,7,14 41:22 understand 34:1 violation 6:7 7:1
32:12 47:9 50:4 Uniformity 48:8 8:12 10:11 12:3
57:17 58:5 threshold 21:10 unimportant 48:18
54:4,5
39:1,14,16 tie 7:8 46:4 wake 58:14
tied 7:9 unquestionably 27:9 want 10:7 22:10,22
57:3
47:23 15:18 23:10 26:24 unreasonableness 52:1 53:15
40:17,21,23 41:9 unrelated 29:7 wants 5:13 31:25
45:25 50:13 58:1 unusual 39:7 1:18
46:7,7 55:20
tough 36:16 upward 16:24,25 41:24
11:1 12:4,15
14:9 15:1
16:18 17:17
18:5,9,10,12 V
treated 34:14 40:10 weigh 51:25
20:4,11 v 1:5 3:4 19:15
23:24 23:23 24:9 28:15
24:10,10 46:5
trial 9:13 17:15,21 we're 5:13 15:4,9
26:3,14 variance 12:23
29:2 16:24,25 27:22
true 15:23 17:12 whack 50:6
33:3,9,19,20 variances 55:20
35:13,14 variations 45:12
36:18 46:11
38:1,7,12,20 varies 39:18
51:5 55:21,22 54:24 within-guidelines
39:10 42:8
45:19 20 11:6 16:4 7
51:16 52:14
32.7 45:5
41:2 43:13
31:25
48:25 49:3,6 38 47:15
53:2,3,4
4
27:14
46 3:14 4:16 6:13
8:13 47 13:24
38:14 39:5,9,10 48.4 45:4
1:13 3:2 5
59:1 5 22:1 27:13 48:25
1:4 3:4 49:6,12 53:2,4,7
11:7 5-year 49:19
3:23 4:7 34:22 50 16:25 27:22,22
3:13 4:13 6:11 57 2:10
27:18 57:22
60 14:25
27:13,14 67 45:9
